I've been here one year and I've lived through an earthquake, fires, floods...
The rains...it just keeps coming...the floods...the hillsides are coming down... you can't get to and from work and it's just a mess.
You survive by natural instincts, you go with the flow.
Okay...hold on. Yeah I'll take care of you in a second...I'm transferring you over..
Hello.? Yeah okay I've got somebody else on hold...I'm going to transfer you over. It might be a second, just hold on.
Okay, oh doctor.
Are you there?
Can I use my real name on the radio?
First of all I'm invisible. I see myself looking in a mirror. I'm having this dream almost every night.
And the next thing you know I'm getting married. I don't know to whom....
Like an entire solid month.
Then all of a sudden I see myself walking down a road by the harbor....
Can you hold on for one second... Hello.
Yeah, I've got two other lines. Can you hold a second? Great....
Hello...yeah...hold on. I can transfer you now.
Hi. Hi. Sorry.
Sorry..
I'm really sorry....
Am I on?
Okay. I'm walking along the road down by the harbor, and I'm invisible, and I go around looking at people knowing that they can't even see me and in this dream.....
... I ride around with people. I get in their cars, I go all over town.
I mean here...this, this, this.
Can you hold on a second?
I've got two juice commercials. I'm like the spokesman for the company now. I got a Baske and Robbins, and I'm on avail for a couple of beer things that are going on..
Hello...
Dr. Powell I'm back....
Sorry to put you on hold....You see then I get out of the car...
...and I walk all day...
...and all night.
No, no, no, no. I'm at work. I'm at work.
What do you think? Do you think I'd make a fake call in the middle of work?
And then this really strange thing happens.
While I'm walking...I'm an Actor...
I'm walking, and I see myself walking, but I don't stop, I just keep on walking.
I want to know what you think about the dream, let me finish it! Can you hold on a second please?
Come on...
This isn't the way we came.
Yes it is.
Let's not.
Let's not. Sorry.
We'll just go home and we'll wait it out.
This place stinks!
Let's not.
You know.....You know, at this point I'm blaming it all on bad karma. This is how we die, man. I wish they'd just get it over with.
Don't give up. I mean nothing has happened to us. She'll probably be at the boat waiting for us when we get there.
Let's not be naive about the earthquake...
It's a good sign...
That's what saved us.
Let me tell you, I had a premonition. I had the worst feeling when she said she was going to go up and see the band.
What if we get it for not warning her?
We see a sheep standing beside a tree in the fog.
Hi this is ALLEN at 969-8895. I'm not home right now but if you want to leave me a message I'll get back to you as soon as you can...
If it's important and during the day you can call me at Knapp Communications. The number is  932-1465. Uh, I should be there all day. And if it's not important and you don't want to call me there leave a message on this machine but don't hang up I really hate that and, uh,that's it, bye.
My despair has a strange shape.  It doesn't hurt like something that hurts your body. It's seeing the continuity.....
.....of something hopeless going on and on year after year.....
....When I close my eyes I see the city....
But when I go out all I see are clues and patterns.....
...or the endless wait for coincidence.
Events slowly unfold with the possibility that my patience will become accidental waste.
But at the same time I see that it's exactly what put Mom in the position she was always in.
The first time you feel sexual you see fate all around you? Is that what you want?
Yes, and I really deserve it.
I have the feeling that that's dad's only motive.
They think we are selfish...
They think we should procreate.
So there were two guys and what were their names?
Not two guys, a girl and a guy.  They were related. Marie-Noel that's her name, not very Greek I know...
And she was the one you were married to?
Yes.
Who own this house?
I do, I mean we did.
You stand to lose everything you worked for in the last 60 years.  The ranch, our inheritance....
Why have you set out to prove everything is here by chance?
I wasn't too young to know what happened the last time we were found out.  You don't act like I'm the next to die.
It started this way.
So you're an actor?
Yes.  I'm an actor.  That's where I met the guy.
I met him at a casting call for a commercial... He said his name was Tony.
I was late...
So I had to make up an excuse for work..
Some temp job I was working downtown.
It was raining, and there was this flood and everybody was jittery.
Because something that big in nature doesn't usually happen around here except an earthquake, or your occasional rare winter snowstorm every ten or twenty years.
I know why you're so happy all the time. This place is a free lunch.
Reality is a refraction from a physical process. The sum of the stars is nothing.
Okay, ready to roll.
What's your name?
Allen.
And you were kidnapped by aliens, did you say?
No, no, no, no.  I was involved with this woman and this guy.
Wait, wait, wait, let me understand this... you were involved with a goddess?  Like a Greek goddess?
With a Greek, Zeus, Athena type goddess.
Where is she now?
She's like hunting quail in the Sierras now.
What?
She left me for dirt.
And were you married?
Yeah, we were married right before....
Is it quiet?
Very quiet. Where you from?
Nashville.
First time in LA?
Yeah, I just got a "Seventeen" cover and everyone said I should come here.
Where are you staying?
With my Aunt.
Do you act?
No, just modeling for now. But I've heard about some really great workshops from my agent.
I'm an actor. TV commercials, some stage. I know just about everybody in town, free advice, comes with the rent.
How much is it?
Well, the first month's free. You've got to come up with some kind of security deposit, figure one month and then the last month and that comes to half the price published in the ad.
EMPTY_LINE
Does that seem like a lot?
Well for Tennessee standards, but I don't know.
Do you know why the apartment's only half per month of the going rate for this size apartment in Hollywood?
No.
Because I sleep here 1 night a week.
TONY, are you there?  Come on! Pick up the phone!
TONY, are you there, Tony! Tony! Tony!
Do you have a church key?
What will it be?
I'll......
Yeah, what'll it be man?
I want to cure my passive aggressive personality.  From now on when I want something I'm going to ask for it. I'm going to learn how to be more observant of signs and consider how other people might need clearer signals from me.
Why don't you get a job. That's what the man says....
...You look good, you'd do great in an interview.
Join a group. Do something for other people.
Go up and talk to people. See if you have someone in common...
Do some charity work...
Mingle..Be creative. Take chances. Take ownership.
Ride the bus....
This case is a mess. We don't know what is going on with the child. No, no, no, no, no no, the couple is stonewalling. Nobody has seen the child, in what, 15 years. Every visit is marked "guardian unavailable". Nobody bothers because it's the island. And get this, the couple, they're not married. No. They're the step-children of the owner of the island who is now deceased...
...I have a sniff writ and I'm going out there next week.
The is your meeting so why don't we get down to business.
Sounds fine.
Call Boston if you want. I don't think the time change will make any difference
Your name is Filmore West, correct?
We're requesting an environmental impact study on the employment angle in Avalon.
Are you kidding?  Any loss in jobs will be absorbed in the Federal tourism franchise. Employment will double, property and leases will increase in value. The overall benefit will be stunning to the average citizen of Avalon.
What if we tell everybody about the national resources here. If you'll remember your history gentlemen, the civil war was won by the collateral in the Treasury created by the California gold rush. We think the government needs a big hit of cash right now to cure the deficit. Remember what Churchill said, a great government never has to face the truth nor pay cash.
Could we have a moment?
We're looking very good here. Just don't give them anything they can use. Do not say anything.
What if we bring up the legality of him impersonating his grandfather.
I think we need something stronger. Any sexual harassment suits or child abuse. He's a guardian.
Hello, I'm from the department of Human Services in LA.  I'm looking for a missing child who may be somewhere on the island.
Name?
A Marie-Christine West? Her guardian is a Mr. Filmore West.
I think I know what's going on here.
Good, good, good, good, just don't say anything.
Did they have a child with them? Or did they take this child with them?
They're brats. They're very unpopular around here. They're keeping the property values from tripling.
Great, where can I find them?
Probably France. What would you do if you owned all of Catalina and Anacapa..?
...all the way to San Miguel including the Big Island which has gold deposits and the IRS are looking for them?
Don't say anything.
I'd like to direct your attention to the signatures on these documents.
This is intolerable!
One is a reconveyence of a second deed of trust, and the other is your recent letter to us. You would have been 4 years old at the time of the first document.
You guys believe in fairy tales don't you?
We want to know who you are.
This reminds me of the Tempest where the rightful Duke is robbed of his kingdom by his evil brother...
Were you born in this country?
...and the evil brother puts the good Duke and his daughter out to sea in a small boat to die. And at the end of the story....
My client is using a figure of speech.
Then where are we going with this, guys?
You two are going to jail.
We're saying....you don't have enough money.
What do you say next?
We're just representing the United States Government in an attempt to take what the people have a right to.
Big Brother. Orwell! No, no, That's too recent.
The situation is irreversible.
What are you going to do?  Act it out for us.
...And it's raining and hailing and lightning's striking and you guys think that I'm dead, but I'm not. I'm really back in the big island with my daughter.
And you know what we're doing. Playing chess, and having a picnic!
Hi.  Can I help you?
Which way to the Big Island?
You must have slept a long time.
I've been sleeping a lot lately.
Yeah about 2 years.
A woman named Reggie Swan confirmed she'll arrive March 4th. She'll be staying until September.  I got the bunk house all ready for her.
There have been quite a few fly-overs by the park service.  The last 6 months there has been surf on the North point. Anyone who can afford a boat has been streaming up here like freeway commuters.
Yeah.
This thing with the surfers has become some sort of a cult. There have been a few entries on the South shore, young men looking for Marie-Noel...I vacated them immediately.
Uh huh.
The park service has been on the island almost full time, as expected, and the monk from the monastery arrived for another year.
The hideout is nestled under eucalyptus trees in an island canyon.
The lethal arrowhead is pointed at MARIE-NOEL'S head.
Where have you been. He's here.
Dresses?
More in the boat.
Books?
Likewise.
How was LA?
A dry hole.
Why did you let the animals go? Here's a story about animals that caused erosion on the Channel Islands. We don't need any more attention right now.
I scattered them for their own protection. And it doesn't bother me because any animal, no matter where it starts, turns out the same.
Do you remember seeing my moon earrings anywhere have you?
The ones you were wearing the night .....
The night of the great unpleasantness?
Is there anything about Halloween in Edgar Allen Poe?
OK, let's just stop talking about it....
I guess it's about time. It was starting to bug me.
20 November, the mirror never reflects my despair, just water running in the sink.
You can stop living out of suitcases and fix the place up?
Oh, and you can go and enjoy your life in LA.
What's that supposed to mean?
You get to come and go as you please and I'm stuck here in this dirty hideout.
I'm in the same situation you are. Moving or sitting still is the same thing, they're everywhere.
What about the government?
I think we can stall the government until the next gubernatorial election.
Forget it.
If my dilemma is the dilemma of art, what would the art character do?
If anything happens to me you should take the train East...
...We both came from the West. I think we'll be heading that way.
Well, you'll be all set up in LA if anything happens to me.
We've had a good life. We've been lucky. All these extra years are for stories. There's nothing left to do except to see how we fit into them.
You know, I've looked everywhere. There are no references to two people leaving a Halloween party anywhere in Western, Eastern, Sumerian, or comic book literature.
I thought we were going to drop that.
What was your mother's favorite book?
How should I know?
We both should have written these things down. That's why I have a diary now.
You'll know what to do when the time comes.
I protest in advance any role where I am resolved as ineffective, irrelevant, marginal, unable to influence, yet always influenced and, in short, any role where I am victimized by circumstance. These are my politics and someone's going to have to deal with them.
Good.
16, November. You asked me to remember the time before I came here. I remember a shipwreck and a storm that washed out all the roads.
I remember a dream from my childhood. In the dream a prince comes from the sea...
...and lives with me and my old father. There was England,..
...back stage with my mother all those years while I grew so slowly. France, India...
French Indochina...
then here...beside the arbitrary sea.
What are you doing in my apartment? What are you doing here?
And who's pizza is this? Excuse me!
Calm down. We weren't expecting you for a while, we had the exterminator come in like you requested...
Oh you did?
And who the hell is this?
Take this stuff out for her.
You've got pizza in my place...you're lying here. Who's clothes are these?
There's no pizza here; there's no clothes here.
You had no permission to come into my place. A guy sleeping in my bedroom, sleeping on my couch.
I'm going to request to the board that you perhaps should be kicked out for your bad sculpture.
Oh you are?  Get the hell out of here. What kind of manager are you anyway?
Hi, Aunt Debbie?
What's that on your face?
Did you move that refrigerator to my new building?
Yes.
Liar. Your car doesn't work.
ALLEN and H. TOM stand next to ALLEN'S broken down car.
Who's this?
I'm his assistant ma'am.
Shut up!
H. TOM shaves in a park fountain surrounded by homeless people.
Does he pay rent?
No ma'am.  When I find a job I'm going to pay rent.
He picks up my residual checks and he's a really good plumber.
Did you steal another car from a tourist?
Two JAPANESE tourists admire a star on Hollywood Blvd. as ALLEN and H. TOM make off with their car.
No ma'am.
Shut up!  No we didn't.
That refrigerator, did you strap it on top of the car?
The stolen car rolls through and intersection with the refrigerator strapped to the top.
No!
And then did you ditch their car?
From above, ALLEN and H. TOM remove the refrigerator from the top of the rental car.
No ma'am.  The car was towed...
Shut up!
So you faked homelessness and begged for free chicken.
ALLEN and H. TOM stand at the window of a fast food stand faking homelessness. ALLEN has Will Work For Food written on his stomach.
What are you saying Aunt Debbie?
The refrigerator is all scraped up and has no freon. And you smell rancid. And why are you so fat!
One, two, three..
Your cousin just arrived. When you see her, be sociable!
You know I've been having these dreams lately where my mother finds me floating down the river in a little wicker basket and it turns out that (shouts in the direction of AUNT DEBBIE) I am not related to you!
Do you have the time?
2:30.
Do you mind if I ask you a question?
Yes.
Why are you her right now?
What?
Why did you come up just this minute?
I'm going to work, man.
Is this the bus you always take?
No,  I'm late.
You're late! Why are you late?
I overslept, man.
Nothing caused you to be late?
I'm just sitting here waiting for the bus. What's the big deal?  Do you have to talk to me?
A Tire rolls up the hill propelled by the crash. TONY and the man re-enter frame.
Oh my god!  I can't fucking believe this! My car must have popped out of park!  It could have hit you.  Oh my god, I can't believe this...800 bucks...Oh my god!
Call 911!
The Truck stops for a cat. The doors shut. The light crosses Tony's face and goes black. SFX Doors lock THE Rolling tire innocently hits the truck and gets stuck. A purring cat walks away from the truck.
I have a genius IQ. My parents would have killed if I went into business. They'd love it.
If they were alive, you know what I'd tell them? I'd tell them I'm a temp in an insurance company.
If you assign everything to infantile motives, life becomes boring. Your religion only explains your sex life.
You're not listening. I don't want to be poor. But it's not like I'm doing some I gotta starve thing here. If I had enough money I'd be happy.
And then again you may be right, for all the wrong reasons. Twenty years in the mind is unfortunately not twenty years in the body and it get worse and worse as you go.
Not me. I keep my nut real low. Basically I live off my relatives. You know?  Free rent. All the chicks I can pluck from my aunt's building. All I need is one national commercial a year and I can live like a king.
Things are stranger in other places.
Where do you get these things you say, man. Are you still on acid?
I just say things that come into my head, because they're more enjoyable than my own thoughts.
There's two choices for me right now. I'm either pregnant or feeling a false pregnancy.  The first one is impossible.
Are you trying to tell your mother that you're knocked up?
Incredible weather we're having.
I hate it because it makes my skin dry, especially my private parts.
In Maine, it's been frozen for two months.
Why are you here anyway?
To take care of you. I thought that giving it all up and taking care of my old mother would be the simplest life possible. What you're telling me about my cousin Allen is upsetting.
Criminy....You sure feel sorry for yourself.
Damn right! I didn't come here to get drawn into slum-lording. What did you get into mom?
My dear husband, bless his soul THE BASTARD. He was very good to me..
You always said that.....
It was my idea, not his! Now you're cousin Allen is the bastard.
Look mom, I came out here because I needed to. I've went through a time with so many regrets. I got ostentatious and solemn and I hated myself, and anyone who behaved the same way.  Independence works better alone. I'm a girl Shane, you know the gunfighter who hung up his guns.
You didn't give them enough sex, that's your own fault.
Too many people in my past have been hurt, and all of them named Tony.
Have you seen all these mushrooms around the house?
Fato Profungus... I believe they're called.
You would know that. But don't eat them. Mrs. Johnson up the street says they make you horny.And when are you going to learn to drive?
Probably never. I like walking.
And what qualifies you for this job?
Well, what is the job?
State privacy laws require that we watch over our guests day and night from the minute they arrive to the day of the funeral.
You mean the bodies?
Yes. You're the body watcher.
Oh. The body watcher.
Well, do you have any questions?
Oh, no.
I have a few questions, if you don't mind.
Okay.
For example, why do you want this job?
I want to meet people.
Dead people?
No, no. If I work at night I'll meet people during the day. See, I don't sleep much at night.
You have two lives? I have two lives. I've always wanted to be a stand up comic. Do you mind if I show you some of my material?
Go ahead.
A man says to his doctor he can't remember things from one minute to the next the doctor says, "How long has this been going on?" The man says, "How long has what been going on?"
That's good.
What are you doing?  You depraved person! Is that a client?  Get out of here!
Number 12.
Mr. Peterson?
I dunno...Not yet. I see something here!
I don't care what you see. Get out.
Oh hi.
We need to talk.
OK.
I've been living quietly by myself, except for the moon-light orgies and me scoring twice a day.
Dad wants to talk to you...because you're family.
Hermes, I'll pay you if you get me back into the organization. I've got this new pornography you have to see...
His mother was Jefferson's mistress.
We should help him.
No.
He lives on my island. There will always be as many demigods as there are minor poets. There are too many of them. They have good lives. They don't need any help.
God I have a headache. Do you know the best thing for headaches?
Is that why you came here just now?
...most people go to the vegetable section, I come here because I believe in headaches....Men who are worth anything always have headaches..
I walk to get rid of my headaches....
I thought so. Everything's OK here as long as you're name isn't Tony.
OK.
Should we screw things up?
It's a challenge life put before me overcoming my Tony Karma. Men want blonds and good breasts. Women with breasts always do well. They also like tomboys. They trust tomboys. They consider them honorable and would never have sex with them unless the tomboy asked?
No, don't.
There's gas leaking. Get out.
 I'll meet you outside.
Come on. there's a gas leak.
Don't touch me...Manager!
A nice young man pulled me out and then went back in to save someone..and then there was this explosion
Why don't you get a temp job. I can't pay you any more money.
Hello  Do you know a Tony.
Wrong number. They keep asking for TONY. Look it's your cousin!
Then the store blew up.
She could have died.
Holy shit, that's my cousin?
Where's the money Greg?
My name isn't Greg, My name is Allen.
Maybe he isn't Greg. They said he was a big guy.
Where's the money Greg?
I don't know what you're talking about.
Are you allergic to pain?
Where is the money Greg?
What's with the gun?  I said no guns?
Take my wallet on the coffee table. There's $1200 in rent receipts in the kitchen drawer!
Is that your black Range Rover parked outside?
I don't have any black Range Rover.
Is this 6600 Graintree?
Greentree!
What?
Greentree!
Let's pop him. He knows a lot now.
Come on. He doesn't know anything.
EMPTY_LINE
Come on. We're sorry. Have a good day.
You guys do sloppy work.
The New York Daily news says.. 1200 people
Will be returned.. tomorrow..because you blew it...You're absolutely right..
And what's going to happen?..to the personality of your dog...and don't forget..our children's     future..please.. because forces will gather... to take you away...
...from the island.
Hello? Wouldn't you know it, the phone doesn't ring all day and it's you.
Matrix lactating....
You notice something on the way home..
...Etched droplets.
Convertible with young bleach blond, mom in back...
..mom in back...
Heroic mall facing darlings.. Hasty Scotch preceding flick...
Young dad with ponytail driving, baby shotgun, back from beach...
Normal cantilever...
...short of awe...
Give style to Sunset Blvd.
At sunset the cars move home one by one..
...finding freckles...
And the stages float to meet the warm light
talented...heady slap...
My time is mine again.
slap, talented, heady...
...breaks on not finding form...
ditched glue...laughter pulling Orion...Wrist on loan...
...bowed to & clean...
secret cycled from...the obvious...lodged style hawked from home...searing material lush as trash...
feet lifting heavy ball...to shoulder in backward world...lovely cart...lucky... faucet of distant lakes...bad swath forever poor...
Have a light?
I don't smoke.
Hey Barry, what are you doing here?
I'm going to see my daughter's dance class. Aren't I allowed to have a life?
That's fine You never see your agent anywhere. It's kind of weird.
I've heard that before.
Do you want this?
16 table spoons of sugar. Fat is funny. Better you than me.
Did you wipe it?
I always knew you were a very talented man.
You know Barry, when I was growing up in Maine my neighbors would say: Oh you're going to Hollywood to be a star, Huh, That was pretty embarrassing, wouldn't you say? You're just like them.
What? Moi?
It wasn't very nice.
What haven't I done for you lately
You're always so fucking condescending.
What are you talking condescending, what are you saying?
See you Allen. Aren't you going in the actor's entrance?
They always bring us in the back door here but I'm going in the front today.
You know I've added up all the time my commercials have run on television and I'm already way done with my 15 minutes of fame.
Should I take that personally?
Take it how ever you'd like.
You know what? I'm going to take the steps. I don't feel comfortable in this elevator.
Is this about me?
No. I just don't like elevators. You know what and elevator is. It's a coffin. If it ever stops. Did you know that? The cables are weak, and it stops, there's no air.
Barry!
If there was an earthquake you know what would happen?
Barry!
...you'd be dead.
Barry!
I'd rather walk and have thighs.
Barry!
I'll call you at the office later. Oh oh oh! I'm scared.
Oh Barry, I almost forgot...
You're a pussy Barry.  Casting?
Sure.
Oh my god it's a earthquake.
It's all right.
BARRY!!!!
It'll be over soon.
Are we under anything structural? Get in a door jam.
Do you smell gas?
What?
We're going to die. Barrrrrrry!
6.6 officially if you have been sleeping all morning. 6.6 it was felt from San Diego to Las Vegas to Modesto. It was centered exactly under in Northridge and it is a unnamed fault...We are in Granada Hills and the power is still out...Sadly there were three deaths reported in the Santa Clarita Valley area. The force blew out storefront windows, there were landslides in Pacific Palisades left cars caked in mud. Ruptured gas lines buckled the roads. The Santa Monica freeway collapsed near La Cieniega. An apartment complex on 14th and Idaho exploded. One house toppled down a hill.
After the earthquake was all over we went down to    the lobby and sad down in the lobby of the building...
...until the sun came up. And then we went off to our room to see if there was any damage, it was pretty bad. It was quiet, there wasn't anybody driving, there were people just wandering around, you know we walked out and we looked and we saw the cracks..... and you know down the street over here beside the building was off, a big bell tower up the street was tilted halfway down, it was sort of scary......
...and you know down the street over here beside the building was off, a big bell tower up the street was tilted halfway down, it was sort of scary......
What a beautiful day for an earthquake.
I've go to check my building. I've got to turn the gas off. We don't have any earthquake kits. Where's your car?
I don't own a car. I walk.
You walk?
Yeah I walk.
Where do you live?
Out of town.
Where out of town....like New York out of town,     Texas out of town?
A couple of hours out of town.
Like Palm Springs out of town?
Yeah, like Palm Springs out of town.
And you don't have a car?
There's no love in the world! I miss my friend more than any thing that's ever happened to me. She had favorites of course.
This makes me happy to know. We I have to go now.
You your self may know someone she liked.
Loser. You're such a loser. You have terrible taste in clothes! All your taste is in your friggin' mouth!
What are you doing?
You don't want to have anything to do with her.
I beg to differ. Is that tricycle listed. This never happens to me during the day.
Why are you moving out?
This place is condemned. No use of paying you any more rent.
Don't think you're going to get your security deposit back.
Watch out for the floor up there, it's weak.
OK.
I thought you were dead?
I survived.
We have to start meeting like this.
What are you doing here?
Someone's fallen in the floor upstairs.
Don't worry about it..Just a dead beat. We have to get out of here there's going be an aftershock.
Who checked the gas main, asshole!
The government has flip-flopped in maybe two or     three years the problem will come up again but it     least it gives us some breathing room.
I'm thinking about starting over in LA. I like it     there, I've met some people I like. I'm happy for     the the first time in years.
I knew you would be in spite of all the damage.
How much?
All interior roads are out. Raymond's barn fell     down. There's no power except from generators on     the big island
Have you heard from Marie-Nel?
No. We flew over and there's no damage to any structures, but her radio is out.
I think I should get up there.
Stop the engine. Listen.
I'll be all right. Pick me up on Sunday.
What's with Anthony? He really did it. He's crazy.
We'll pick him up on the way back.
Does he really think some chick lives on that island?
I guess so.
MARIE-NEL reads the note, tearfully.
Happy 18th. You're not aging well, but I shouldn't mention that on your birthday should I? I could not think of a better way to surprise you than to hide this in plain sight. Here's a treasure map to your birthday present, Some things that may help you when you want to leave home. If I'm gone when you read this, then I'm right, and I'm not going with you. Good luck. Love you. Your sister. Marie Christine.
ANTHONY paddles toward shore.
