Nearly missed it!
He whips into the back of the truck and flings everything out of the way of his sleeping bag and pad. Black.
Hey. Are you doing the east pike? Can I come along with you for a while? The girls don't reply, just look at each other.
I'm on my own. I'm Aron.
 Sure, I'm Kristi.
Megan.
Nice to meet you. What a day.
It's beautiful.
Did you bike or come straight from the trail head?
We left the car there. Pretty quiet.
I left mine at the Horseshoe Canyon and biked here.
You biked from Horseshoe? That's 20 miles or more.
17 and windy.
I do this a lot. They laugh. He's crazy, but harmless.
Wasn't expecting to see anyone in the canyon today.
Yeah, you surprised us, sneaking up like that.
Sorry.
It's kind of nervy seeing a lone guy walking up to you in the middle of the desert.
Yeah, I know, I mean there's no one around for 50 miles.
... and suddenly there's a guy right behind you and `wait a minute, why is he wearing a HOCKEY
They all laugh.
Let me guess... You're here for the paintings or the Cathedral?
The Cathedral? We've got a bit disorientated and the map isn't great. Where is it?
The climb's a little tricky but it's worth it.
There's thousands of holds but you can't see them until you're almost upside down and then they just keep appearing... it's a bit of a act of faith so I'll go first... take off as much as you dare as there's a bit of a surprise at the other end...
You behave Aron Ralston or we'll tell your mother all about where you lure girls...
I swear I won't look but I swear you won't care when you get out here...
... and the thing is, when you get to the middle... He lets go.
... there aren't any more. We spin and watch him fall into the most exquisite emerald pool 60 feet below.
Are you ok? ARON!
Of course he's ok. Listen to him. Aron fills the cathedral dome with his version of a Phish song at the top of his voice. Kristi strips to her underwear and traverses away from Megan.
Got to be there, Meg.
We've got to go again. And film it!
I really can't eat all this chocolate by myself... Never mind, yes I can!
So have you got a girlfriend, Aron?
Well, there's not really anyone special.
Ah, so there's lots of girlfriends.
There's always a girl, you just don't know it yet.
Yeah, we meet lots of guys and there's always a girl.
Long story.
With lots of characters in it.
I've done 46 of the 59 winter solo ascents.
Wow, highest person in Colorado.
Well I figure no one else is mad enough to climb in the winter.
... you can be the highest person on the continent!
Didn't you see it?
What? No.
Yeah, it's an old cattle guardian's house - the roof's caved in and someone spray-painted MOTEL 6 on the side. Smelled weird though.
Just like a MOTEL 6 then?
Why are you on your own?
Solitude. Great tunes. Empty mind. He indicates the wilderness.
And I can sing Phish songs as loud as I like.
Phish?
Not those guys from...
Yeah, I know, I know.
I'll get this. Leave no trace.
Hey, but I like a beer like the next man. You know, end of the day.
I'm not certified yet but that's what I want to do.
An illegal instructor.
It's hard to get the hours to qualify. Catch 22.
Well, we'll sign your time-card today.
Great. Now put your ass on my head.
Okay but don't look and no grabbing now, if I do...
Oh whatever, you love it.
Shhh!
 You'll have to chimney down a little ways - like here, watch - one foot on each wall then squat onto your right heel, now your butt's on the wall, so you can move your right foot across, now put your left foot under your butt lower down and scootch your butt down - watch that black part, it's slick, slime, try not to get it on your shoes - if you can get to these bomber handholds here it's like an elevator shaft and just think friction to control the slide. This is a keeper so always have someone at the bottom to boost you out. He looks up to them.
I didn't understand any of that.
Kristi, I think this is our way back.
Why don't you come with me to the Big Drop Rappel? I can give you a lift back to your car.
How far is it? He shows them on the map.
About another 8 miles or so, I think.
You'll never get out before dark.
No, I really got to do this. Anyway I've my miner's lamp.
You don't climb at night, do you?
No, it's great for seeing snakes in hand holds. Can I get a picture then? They pose with raven feathers in their hair.
Listen, my friends are having a party tomorrow night. You should come.
Yeah, we'd like that. What time?
Where?
Drive on the east road and about 40 miles out there's a huge inflatable Scooby Doo. You can't miss it. Turn off and it's about 2 miles down that track. Starts late and it'll go right thru. Lots of cheek kissing and his last picture of them...
Come on Aron, hike out with us - we'll go get your truck, hang out and have a beer.
No, I really got to do this.
Okay. Scooby Doo, yeah?
That's the one. I'll have 3 cold beers waiting for us.
12 cold beers!
Easy Aron, easy now. He keeps moving, descending still, but a little more circumspect. He lets the change of pace allow him to whip round his pack and with the practice of thousands of times selects and plays a CD without stopping, slipping the headphones over his head.
Good evening Las Vegas... are you having a good time? Are you ready for PHISH! Whether we are or not, the first song begins on a wave of adoration from his fellow Phish fans. He sings along.
He snaps the log now arching above him well out of reach.
" 2:41pm. Sat April 26th. 2003 "
Won't be coming back this way.
Yep.
FUCK, get your hand out of there!
No, no... more water.
Relax. Stop. Come on. He breathes and breathes, taking stock for the 1st time.
Time Check. 3.14pm. Stares at it until it changes to 3.15pm - the watch is working.
FUCK! What the fuck? How the fuck did you get your hand trapped by a fucking boulder? Its crushed, it's fucking dying man! He reaches up and touches the trail of blood, hair and skin left on the canyon wall as the rock pushed him to where he is. Looks under boulder, no blood - check. [He hears the crowd cheering on his headphones. It's been playing throughout. He switches it off]
Not good. He blows the whole lot into our face with a mighty gust.
When in a hole.... Alternative; he starts digging away at the wall instead, same result.
Fuck. It's hard as iron. Pause.
Shit!
Shit!!!
The stick withdraws.
Sweet.
Wow, look at the size of this one. There's no cliffs or mountains anywhere near. We look at Mark's pleasant, unremarkable face for far too long as he looks around -
How the fuck did this get there? It's like we're on the moon looking over Buzz Aldrin's shoulder at Neil Armstrong; it certainly sounds like that...
Cool. He picks it off his arm and places it on top of the rock next to where he's working. It's a grain of sand on the seashore but it's something.
Finally it catches.
Aahhhhh.
Caw-caw.
Caw-caw.
OK - lights off and line up alongside me. They turn off their vehicles' headlights as she draws a long line in the sand and they join her standing on one side of it.
On the other side of this line, everything will be different. As they all hold hands and together step cross the line (Aron's keen and ever so slightly ahead of everyone across the line) the sparkling lights of the crescent-shaped `town' of vehicles and camps that is Burning Man are replaced by an astonishing sunrise in the Nevada desert. They hoot and holler as Rana smiles beautifully at Aron.
And remember, stick together, the desert wants to kill you.
9.30am
It's three-oh-five on Sunday. This marks my twenty-four-hour mark of being stuck in Blue John Canyon above the Big Drop. My name is Aron Ralston. My parents are Donna and Larry Ralston of Englewood, Colorado. Whoever finds this, please make an attempt to get this to them. Be sure of it. I would appreciate it. He takes long blinks and seems to avoid looking at himself though the screen is facing him. He looks alarmed and wide eyed, startled, in contrast to his slow slurred delivery.
So... I was hiking Blue John Canyon yesterday... and this happened. He pulls the camera round to show where his forearm and wrist disappear into the horrifyingly skinny gap between the chockstone and the wall. As he does that we
What you're looking at there is my arm, going into the rock... and there it is, stuck. It's been without circulation for 24 hours.
It's pretty well gone. If the colour doesn't come across on the video, it's grey and blue.
Unnhhhhh.......I'm in deep stuff.
So I have very little water. He can't help look in the camera towards those who know what that means in this place.
Yeah, I have about a third of a litre left. He picks up the water bottle and shakes it for the camera.
So the way I see it... there's kind of four things happening here... I tried to move it with some rigging... useless... and I tried chipping away at the rock... I think part of the problem is, is that my hand is actually supporting the rock. Which means every time I chip away the rock moves a bit and settles onto my hand again. I can't feel it happening but microscopically, it seems to be, because the little gap over there between the rock and the wall seems to be getting smaller. And this chockstone is the hardest thing here.
So the third thing left was to cut my arm off.
I don't know whether I could do that but it's pretty much suicide. It's four hours to my vehicle that way and with very difficult climbing with one hand and the bike is like two, two and a half hours, that way but the climbing... fourth class climbing... which I think will be probably impossible with one hand... between the blood loss and the dehydration I think I would die if I cut off my arm.
Which means I'm waiting for someone to come along. He summons up the guts to let the evidence out.
I didn't tell anyone where I was going and I didn't leave a note on the truck.
Dumb. The video whirrs on until he suddenly looks straight into the lens.
Freaky. We just see an arbitrary view of the rock and sky on the video camera, maybe with a bit of elbow, but we hear his desperation, screaming at no one, distorting on the tiny speaker.
No one's coming Aron.
God, I am praying to you for guidance. I'm trapped in Blue John Canyon - you probably know that - and I don't know what I am supposed to do. I've tried everything I can think of. I need some new ideas. Please show me a sign. PAUSE - Just his breath. He switches on the head lamp and the inside of the bag explodes with light. There's enough light for any kind of heaven but it's just Aron in Blue John Canyon. He looks around his bag. He stops. Silence. Only his breathing to listen to. Heart rate... fast... too fast. Light off.
OK, then, God, since you're apparently busy: Devil, if you're listening, I need some help here. I'll trade you my arm, my soul, whatever you want. Just get me out of here. You want me never to climb again, I can give that up. Just show me the dotted line.
Ungg-gggu-ggga-gggngh!
Yeah. Not very funny.
Still not sure. I'll see you Tuesday.
Always do.
Aron, it's Mom. Hoping to catch you. Nothing urgent. Dad's in New York so it'll be a quiet weekend. Aron is clearly there but can't answer.
Call me. Lots of love.
That was your Mom! And your Dad called. Call him. We're going. See you next week. Oh, and Rana called.
Obsessive, inventive, analytical, he constantly adjusts and adds and subtracts, and cannibalizes. Undoing and tieing knots with his teeth and hand. Each time nothing happens to the rock. But each time he doesn't stop. He tries again and again and again; looping and re-looping throwing and catching ropes; creating footholds and bouncing in them with his foot, his knees, his ass.
It's freaking me out looking at myself so I hope you guys are OK with this
It's Monday - all day - bummer. I spent the morning trying to create a 6:1 system ration and lift the boulder but friction between the rope and carabiners is dissipating every bit of force I apply.
All it's good for is sitting in...
There's a raven flies overhead, I clocked it at 8.15. I'll bet it's there tomorrow too. I'll film it for you tomorrow
I have about one hundred and fifty millilitres of water left. That's four ounces. I can't believe it but I peed twice today, within a few minutes of each other. How is this possible? It's two days since I peed, I'm dehydrated and I had to go so quickly I forgot to save the first. I saved the second in the CamelBak. Will I drink it? It smells foul, and hot but it'll settle. And I can chill it in the sand in the night. It's like Polar winter here for nine hours.
We see his precious bottle of water. It looks back at him. Next to it is the Camelbak of his stored urine.
No number twos. Which will disappoint my insect friends. They're gonna have to wait. The sunlight appears down here for a few hours. I get 15 minutes of it at 9.35... and apart from chipping away uselessly at this rock that's pretty much my morning routine.
I keep chipping at the rock but just to generate warmth and give me something to do. I think it's making it worse. I know it's settling more on my arm as I remove material from it. The area where I chipped flakes off yesterday has already rotated down onto my arm.
We see him pull the elastic neoprene tubing insulation from the CamelBak. It's stretchy, supple and strong and emerges like a thin snake. It's perfect. He wraps the black neoprene around his right forearm 2 inches below his elbow. Simple overhand knot tightened with his teeth. 2nd knot, 3rd knot, clips the neoprene with a carabiner and twists 6 times tight.
Oh yeah. That aches. He takes out the multi-tool and switches to the long blade. looks at it. Then he presses the blade and draws it quickly across his forearm. Nothing. Repeats it harder. Nothing. No cut, no blood, nothing. He switches to the short knife and saws viciously at the same point.
Shit! He releases the tourniquet and as the blood flow returns a series of angry red lines establish themselves where he was sawing. He looks at them.
Pathetic, Aron, pathetic.
The blades are too blunt even to break the skin. I guess that's the chipping. It's not even a proper Leatherman. It's a knock-off one we got free in a gift pack with a torch... Mom gave it to me.
Sis. Sonja, I'm very proud of you.
I didn't get to hear firsthand how your championships went, but I heard from Mom that you placed very well at the national competitions, that you were tenth overall in speech and debate in the nation. Hot damn, girl. I'm very proud of you. Not just for that but for who you are. He looks directly in the lens for the first time.
I can imagine you in your living room looking back at me.
I've been thinking about what my friend Rob in Aspen says to me several... frequently.. Several times that, confusingly, 'It's not what you do but who you are'. I kind of got hung up on that a lot, because I always thought who I was, was very much wrapped up with what I did. That I was happy because of the things that I did that made me happy. If things you do make you happy, then they can also make you unhappy. I think that's why I found myself being as ambitious and energetic - The wind interrupts him and he shivers.
 It's cold... this place is an ice- box at night... And killing winds.
(he struggles to complete the sense of the
As he loses track of what he's saying and then catches up, the canyon has become noticeably darker. He's oblivious.
I did want to say, on the logistical side of things, I have some American Express insurance that should cover costs of the recovery operation when that does happen. Bank account balances should take care of my credit-card debts. You'll have to sell my house, Mom and Dad. Possession- wise, I don't know if Sonja can use my computer and video camera...
The display changes from 20.29
No. No. Don't.
See you later... ... swallows quickly 2 'spoons' of urine without disturbing the sediment. Tangy and bitter, the saltiness makes him wince.
 Fuck a nut, Aron. Pay fucking attention - look what you did? He stares at the stain - with all the dirt on his shorts it's already paste. He screws the lid on slowly and can barely be bothered to lift his lens into his mouth.
They prepare themselves for a mutual signal, press their window buttons. All the windows open and a BLIZZARD explodes inside the vehicle.
Good morning everyone! It's 6:45 Tuesday morning in BJ Canyon. The weather is great! I figure by now that Leona, my housemate - Hi Leona! - has missed me hopefully since I didn't show up last night. Another hour and a half they'll miss me for not showing up for work. Hi Brion at work! Best case scenario is they notify the police and after a 24 hour hold they file a report, a missing persons report. Which means noon tomorrow it's official that I'm gone. I do still have the tiniest bit of water left. Well, actually, I've resorted...I've had a couple pretty good gulps of urine that I saved in my Camelbak. I sorta let it distill...it tastes like hell. So it's 70 hours since I left on my bike from Horseshoe Trailhead during which time I have consumed 3 liters of water and a couple mouthfuls of piss.
Did I say the weather is great? Well, it is. Though flash floods potential is still present. There's 4-prong major canyons upstream from me that all converge in this 3 foot wide gap where I am. The rock I pulled down on top of me, it was put there by flood.
Still, I'd get a drink. He shudders, it's ridiculous. Then composes himself during a long blink and looks straight at the camera.
Mom, Dad, I really love you guys. I wanted to take this time to say the times we've spent together have been awesome. I haven't appreciated you in my own heart the way I know I could. Mom, I love you. I wish I'd returned all of your calls, ever.
I really have lived this last year. I wish I had learned some lessons more astutely, more rapidly, than I did. I love you. I'll always be with you.
Ready for lift-off. He bounces his full weight in the stirrups and pulls on the haul line. It looks a better set up.
Come on, move, dammit.
He puts his ear close and we can hear the little thocking sound.
Whoa, that's the bone. He pulls the knife out opening the wound more. There's barely any blood. He pokes at the gash with the tool.
Ouch!
He picks up the video again.
This next part may not be for all viewers at home. It's a little after eight. At precisely eight o'clock I took my last sip of clean water... and... hide your eyes, Mom... He pans across the boulder and zooms in on the wound, smattered with bright red blood.
I made an attempt - a short career in surgery, as it turned out - those knives are just not anywhere close to the task. I've got about an inch-wide gash in my arm that goes about a half inch deep. I cut down through the skin and the fatty tissue, and through some of the muscle. I think I cut a tendon, but I'm not sure. I'll never saw through the bones with this knife. I tried, anyways. It really just didn't go well. The tourniquet is relaxed at this point. Which actually is a little bothersome, considering I'm not bleeding that bad, barely at all. It's so weird. You'd expect to definitely see more pulsing and bleeding, but oh well.
Shit missed it. 8:31AM. He's late and I still missed it.
Adverts - 7UP, etc. Some putt sized televised, some billboard rock and some radio, pull tab cans begins split and spit, slurpees hammering with grapefruit juice, OJ that - popsicles. ARON: `owwww!' But he carries on.
Temperature 57 - shivers, like 56 - 55 (huge a fit teeth Figures) chattering,
A figure starts body with a a small fire to furious comfort Aron. vengeance. Perfect for bacon and beans. He pisses again 02.02=>03.03=>04.04 ARON: Huge luminous figures on There's the "I can't believe the inside of the black interior Scooby this..." bag. Doo waving at a decants the table in front sediment out of V.O: There you are of it piled to Camelbak. The creaking point stench of the with margaritas sediment makes the excess runs him retch and jerk down the table away. Where is all legs. This coming from?
`Fuck Aron 05.05 We see it reflected That shit stinks' on his eyeball the eyelid rustles back and forward. Finished he tucks back in but VIDEO FOOTAGE: During this we there's a small [ARON: RAMBLING ON VIDEO see pictures,
Did that make sense? down with a swig of urine, He switches off and applies winces and lip balm. swallows somehow. ARON: He looks at it and bites a `That's it. bit off. Masticates it on I'm on the and on... Chewing. urine diet now. Well, The chockstone it's no waits and Aron's slurpee...' foot kicks and then lands and they fall together.
away desultory A slit of light in blackness reveals Jon in work clothes. Aron licks A light switch flicks on and moisture thin metal shelves full of condensation cleaning supplies appear He takes shots from inside the on 3 sides, industrial mop, of himself bag. His head- Aron in his canyon gear, with his still
Rana's face is remaining in huge on the inside the light.An of his head bag, smiling accelerating at him. Her face in huge carousel of scale compared to his head. yellow warmth.
God, it's Aron again. I still need some help. It's getting bad here. I'm out of water and food. Listen. Give me the strength not to do anything against myself. I want to see this through, whatever. A rumbling thunderous sound grows and the inside of the bag begins to bear the image of the top of the canyon at dawn but crumpled like paper, creased like the bag [BUT STRETCHED ACROSS 2 SCREENS]. The noise grows and grows...
Out of date. May Day. Not dead. He smirks.
No raven today. Everything's fucked. Sonja... if you still want me to play at your wedding... there's a tape in a box in the basement of Mom and Dad's Lounge. It's me 1993 or 1994. We hear the music. Mozart, Beethoven, Bach, Chopin - he can hear it as he played it until...
There was a little boy,and he looked like my cousin Charlie but he was too young. And I don't want to die... But I really don't know what to do. Pause.
I did this Aron. I created this. The boulder did what it was here to do. It was waiting for me but it did the only natural thing it could do. I chose to come here, I chose to do this descent by myself. I chose not to tell anyone where I was going. I chose to turn away from the women who were there to keep me from getting in this trouble. I wanted it to be like this. Look how far I came to find this spot.
He's empty now. He clicks the camera shut and puts it away. That's over.
I hate this rock. The rage blooms purple in his mind.
I hate it. His face swells with anger, nostrils flaring.
I hate this fucking canyon.
I hate this cold slab pressing me against this damp fucking wall. Smash, Smash, Smash.
I know there's water near coz of these fucking mosquitoes.
I hate this fucking mess.
Shit.
Get rid of it Aron, it's dead, it's garbage. He drops to his haunches but the webbing stops him at his waist. He detaches it and drops down again, almost able to squat. His trapped arm is the only thing preventing that. His face is suddenly open.
Like a gunshot in the canyon, the bone breaks. The sound ricochets. He rises and sees the bone pushing up violently against the skin. He feels it. It's a serrated, but clean, successful break. Still he says nothing.
A second gun shot smashes around the canyon. He's sweating heavily and yet euphoric, possessed. He checks the underneath of the arm. It's broken too. Around the same place. He can rotate his forearm like a shaft inside a housing. Giving himself no time to wake up he grabs the knife, looks at the watch-
Ok Aron, here we go. You're in it now.
Fuck knows where the sweat is coming from but it's pouring out of him. Sawing downwards he makes as large a hole as he can without tearing any of the noodle like veins. He puts the knife in his teeth and pokes his left forefinger and thumb inside his right arm. Like a mechanic he looks to analyse and then he works by feel only.
EMPTY_LINE
Packs his bag, water reservoir, full bottle of shiny urine, video, pocket knife. Grabs his climbing rope, messy and knotted from its use as insulation, and heads off down the canyon.
Goodbye.
It's like Ray Liotta's final day in Goodfellas; relentless, frustrating, pressure of life again now he's free from his tomb. Deeper and deeper, down and down into the swirling scoops of the sandstone. Couple of difficult manoeuvres, lots of slipping and bumping, despite his best effort occasionally his right shoulder takes the brunt and he stops, winces and grunts thru the pain.
He sees, for the first time in his new life, green. The deep green of a healthy 50ft tree below him and to his left, and he knows. He looks for the bolts drilled into the rock, and he knows. Now he can look down. Right to the edge of vertiginous drop and there below is a puddle of shallow turgid water. Life itself. He wanted it to be there and now he's mesmerized by it. A pair of swifts leave the tree and zig zag up and around him. He wobbles and has to stop himself lunging head first over the precipice. Instead he drops to the bolts and kisses them like the pope arriving in a foreign land.
Hang in there Aron. At they get closer he summons a surge of energy from somewhere.
My name is Aron Ralston. I was trapped by a boulder on Saturday and I've been without food and water for 5 days. I cut my arm off this morning to get free and I've lost a lot of blood. I need medical attention.
accented and without humour. His family sit beside him on comfortable chairs in a TV studio. They are very pleased to
We are the Mejers from Holland. At the start of the trailhead we talked to a ranger who told us about a car that was parked in the area already for several days and that the owner might be missing in the canyon. We joked that we would keep our eyes open and that we would try to find him. After a hike of 5.3 kilometres to the Great Gallery where we took some pictures, we returned and suddenly heard a noise behind us, and after that a voice that cried "Help, I need help". Monique and I immediately realized that this had to be the missing person.
We didn't find him, he found us! We gave him our water and Oreos.
We are the Mejers from Holland. You should stop and rest.
No, we need to keep hiking. We need a helicopter - who can run fastest?- You, go now fast. Take him.
They told us you were here.
Who? Who told you?
The police at the parking lot
Do you have a phone?
There's no signal for miles. Nobody for 6 days and then like London buses another couple appears. They too are confronted by:
Do you have a cell phone?
No. I'm Wayne. I have some medical training.
Is it ok for me to drink so much water?
Sure so long as it doesn't make you vomit. Aron drinks more and more, he overhears...
I gotta stop and empty my shoes. You'll have to tie my shoe lace. As he sits his head slumps forward. He's absolutely motionless. Wayne and Erik try to talk to him but he can barely hear them. A pop song spins round and round distantly.
Are you Aron?
Yes I am. Can I get a lift?
I'm gonna make a terrible mess of your seat.
Just get in buddy. We're all looking for you.
Thank you for bringing me back. The most senior of the burly men says,
That's all your miracle days used up kid. You need to rest. You can stand everyone a beer later. Aron is greeted by medics. Needles. Care. Machines. Tubes.
Will you look after this for me please?
...his love, the peace that passeth all understanding...
Mom.
My boy. My only one. There you are. She strokes his head so gently.
Hey Mom.
How are you feeling?
OK. Are you okay...
You've been asleep for 2 days. We are so lucky... She's a decent woman and a devoted mum. She looks weary, worn out with worry and love for her boy.
Mom, I'm sorry I scared you.
...his love, the peace that passeth all understanding...
OK - he's got 3 vegetarian hotdogs and the tickets and he'll be outside Gate 6 in 5.
So are you guys ok with me?
Yeah. We split up a while back when you were in hospital.
Christine told me.
 Is that what this is about?
Yeah.
What about the climbing? Aron reaches in his bag and pulls out his scary looking prosthetic arm / axe. He clinks the points together. She doesn't laugh, maybe a smile.
Solo?
I'm gonna finish the 49ers this winter or next.
 Well, all I can't figure out is what took you so long to cut it off and get one of these. They both laugh. But he also answers.
Rana, before I did it I was hallucinating, I saw this child, a little blond boy -
 Not Jesus please...
She doesn't say anything.
But it's not going to be you, is it?
No Aron, it's not.
Rana leans over and tenderly kisses his cheek.
You know, everyone who cares for you, a little bit of them dies each time you go back.
Let's go hero. If they do The Fly first and we miss it we'll never be forgiven.
