Come on, Son --this is no place for us.
Flight 784 for San Francisco is now ready for boarding at inmate number 66578, Greely.
Ssssst!  Jose, what's going on?
"Volunteers" again.
"Volunteer duty".
I didn't volunteer.
You causing trouble again?
 No trouble.
All openings must be closed.
If the integrity of the suit is compromised in any way, if the fabric is torn or a zipper not closed, readmittance will be denied.
Raise your arms above your head.
James Cole.  Cleared from quarantine.
Thank you.  You two wait outside.
He's got a history, Doctor.  Violence.
Anti-social six -- doing 25 to life.
I don't think he's going to hurt us.  You're not going to hurt us, are you Mr. Cole?
No, sir.
Why don't you sit down, Mr. Cole.
We want you to tell us about last night.
I went to the surface and I collected specimens like I was told.
 I mashed the spider, didn't I?
We'll get to the spider later, Mr. Cole.  Right now, we want to know everything that you saw.
Where you collected sample #4, what street was that?
Uh...
It's important to observe everything.
I think it was...I'm sure it was 2nd Street.
Close your eyes, Cole.
Tell us in detail what you've seen in this room.
Uh, in this room?  Uh...
How many of us are there?
Six...seven, if you count me.
Tell us about the pictures on the wall...
Uh, you mean the newspapers?
Flight 784 now boarding at gate...
WATCH IT!
Just exactly why did you volunteer?
Wake up, Cole.
Uh, I didn't hear the...
 I asked you, why did you volunteer?
Well, the guard woke me up.  He told me I volunteered.
We appreciate you volunteering.  You're a very good observer, Cole.
Uh, thank you.
You'll get a reduction in sentence.
To be determined by the proper authorities.
You don't want to jeopardize that reduction, do you, Cole?  Have it taken away?
No, sir!
We have a very advanced program, something very different, requires very skilled people.
An opportunity to reduce your sentence considerably...
And possibly play an important role in returning the human race to the surface of the earth.
We want tough minded people.  Strong mentally.  We've had some...misfortunes with "unstable" types.
For a man in your position...an opportunity.
Not to volunteer could be a real mistake.
 Definitely a mistake!
Still among the myriad microwaves, the infra-red messages, the gigabytes of ones and zeroes, we find words, infinitesimally small, byte-sized now, tinier even than science lurking in some vague electricity where, if we listen we can hear the solitary voice of that poet telling us, "We are no other than a moving row Of Magic shadow-shapes that come and go Round with the Sun-illumined Lantern hold In Midnight by the Master of the show."
"The Moving Finger writes; and, having writ, Moves on:  nor all your Piety nor Wit Shall lure it back to cancel half a Line, Nor all your Tears wash out a Word of it."
"Yesterday This Day's Madness did prepare; Tomorrow's Silence, Triumph or Despair: Drink!  for you know not whence you came, nor why: Drink!  for you know not why you go, nor where."
-- so they get there and they ask the guy real nice for some kind of i.d., and he gets agitated, starts screaming about viruses. Totally irrational, totally disoriented, doesn't know where he is, what day it is, alla that stuff.  All they got was his name.  They figure he's stoned out of his mind, it's some kinda psychotic episode, so they're gonna bring him...
He's been tested for drugs?
Negative for drugs.  But he took on five cops like he was dusted to the eyeballs.  No drugs.  You believe that?
You have him in restraints.
Were you listening?  We got two officers in the hospital.  Yeah, he's in restraints, plus the medic gave him enough stellazine to kill a horse.  Look at him!  Still on his feet.
That would explain the bruises, I guess.  The struggle.
You want to go in?  Examine him?
Yes, please.  You said he gave a name...
 James Cole.  That's everything we got.  None of the James Coles on the computer match him. No license, no prints, no warrants.  Nothing. You want me to go in with you?
 No, thank you.
I'll be right here...just in case.
Mr. Cole?  My name is Doctor Railly. I'm a psychiatrist.  I work for the County -- I don't work for the police. My only concern is your well being -- do you understand that?
I need to go now.
I'm going to be completely honest.  I'm not going to lie to you.  I can't make the police let you go...but I do want to help you.  And I want you to trust me.  Can you do that, James?  May I call you "James"?
"James"!  Nobody ever calls me that.
 Have you been a patient at County? Have I seen you someplace?
No, not possible.  Listen, I have to get out of here.  I'm supposed to be getting information.
What kind of information?
It won't help you.  You can't do anything about it.  You can't change anything.
Change what?
I need to go.
Do you know why you're here, James.
Because I'm a good observer.  Because I have a tough mind.
I see.  You don't remember assaulting a police officer...several officers?
They wanted identification.  I don't have any identification.  I wasn't trying to hurt them.
You don't have a driver's license, James?  Or a Social Security card?
No.
Why not?  Most people have some ID.
You wouldn't understand.
You've been in an institution, haven't you, James?  A hospital?
I have to go.
A jail?  Prison?
Underground.
Hiding?
I love this air.  This is wonderful air.
What's wonderful about the air, James?
It's so clean.  No germs.
You're afraid of germs?
I have to go.
Why do you think there aren't any germs in the air, James?
This is April, right?
July.
 July?!
Do you know what year it is?
What year is it?
What year do you think it is?
1995?
You think it's July of 1995?  That's the future, James.  Do you think you're living in the future?
 No, 1995 is the past.
1995 is the future, James.  This is 1989.
Where are you taking me?
South of France, buddy.  Fancy hotel. You're gonna love it.
South of France?!  I don't want to go to the South of France.  I want to make a telephone call.
Zip it, scumbag -- you fooled the shrink with your act, but you don't fool us.
Lemme see your head, Jimbo, see if you got any creepy crawlies.
I need to make a telephone call.
 Gotta work that out with a doctor, Jimbo. Can't make no calls 'til the doctor says.
It's very important.
What chew gotta do, Jimbo, is take it easy, relax into things.  We all gonna get along fine if you just relax.
Jeffrey.  Yo!  Jeffrey.  This here is James. Whyncha show James around?  Tell him the TV rules, show him the games an' stuff, okay?
 How much you gonna pay me?  Huh?  I'd be doing your job.
Five thousand dollars, my man.  That enough?  I'll wire it to your account as usual, okay?
Okay, Billings.  Five thousand.  That's enough.  Five thousand dollars.  I'll give him the Deluxe Mental Hospital Tour.
Kid around, kid around.  It makes them feel good, we're all pals.  We're prisoners, they're the guards, but it's all in good fun, you see?
Here's the games.  Games vegitize you. If you play the games, you're voluntarily taking a tranquilizer.
What'd they give you?  Thorazine?  How much?  Learn your drugs -- know your doses.
I need to make a telephone call.
A telephone call?  That's communication with the outside world!  Doctor's discretion.  Hey, if alla these nuts could just make phone calls, it could spread.  Insanity oozing through telephone cables, oozing into the ears of all those poor sane people, infecting them!  Whackos everywhere!  A plague of madness.  In fact, very few of us here are actually mentally ill.  I'm not saying you're not mentally ill, for all I know you're crazy as a loon.  But that's not why you're here.  Why you're here is because of the system, because of the economy.  There's the TV.  It's all right there. Commercials.  We are not productive anymore, they don't need us to make things anymore, it's all automated.  What are we for then?  We're consumers.  Okay, buy a lot of stuff, you're a good citizen. But if you don't buy a lot of stuff, you know what?  You're mentally ill! That's a fact!  If you don't buy things...toilet paper, new cars, computerized blenders, electrically operated sexual devices...  SCREWDRIVERS WITH MINIATURE BUILT-IN RADAR DEVICES, STEREO SYSTEMS WITH BRAIN IMPLANTED HEADPHONES, VOICE- ACTIVATED COMPUTERS, AND...
Take it easy, Jeffrey.  Be calm.
So if you want to watch a particular program, say "All My Children" or something, you go to the Charge Nurse and tell her what day and time the show you want to see is on.  But you have to tell her before the show is scheduled to be on.  There was this one guy who was always requesting shows that had already played.  He couldn't quite grasp the idea that the Charge Nurse couldn't just make it be yesterday for him, turn back time ha ha.  What a fruitcake!!
Seriously, more and more people are being defined now as mentally ill.  Why? Because they're not consuming on their own.  But as patients, they becone consumers of mental health care.  And this gives the so-called sane people work!  WHOOO!  SHOCK THERAPY!  GROUP THERAPY! HALLUCINATIONS!  THERAPEUTIC DRUGS! IGGIDY DIGGIDY DIG!  PERFECT!  THE SYSTEM IN HARMONY LIKE A BIG MACHINE...
Okay, that's it, Jeffrey, you're gonna get a shot.  I warned you...
 Right!  Right!  Carried away, heh heh. I got "carried away".  Explaining the workings of...the institution.
I don't really come from outer space.
This is TJ Washington, Jim -- he doesn't really come from outer space.
Don't mock me, my friend.  It's a condition of "mental divergence". I find myself on another planet, Ogo, part of an intellectual elite, preparing to subjugate barbarian hordes on Pluto. But even though it's a totally convincing reality in every way...I can feel, breathe, hear...nevertheless, Ogo is actually a construct of my psyche.  I am mentally divergent in that I am escaping certain unnamed realities that plague my life here.  When I stop going there, I will be well.  Are you also divergent, friend?
James Cole.  Report to Staff.  James Cole!
Staff!  Whoo!  Time for Staff.  Now the geniuses cure you.  Hallelujah!
This is a place for crazy people!  I'm not crazy!
We don't use that term..."crazy", Mr. Cole.
Well, you've got some real nuts in here! Listen to me, all of you -- I have to tell you something that's going to be difficult for you to understand, but...
James...please.  These are all doctors here and we want to help you.
Mr. Cole -- last night you told Dr. Railly you thought it was...  1995. ... How about right now?  Do you know what year it is right now?
1989.  Look, I'm not confused.  There's been a mistake, I've been sent to the wrong place.
Hey, I'm not going to hurt anybody.
 Do any of you know anything about the Army of the Twelve Monkeys?  They paint this, stencil it, on buildings, all over the place.
Mr. Cole...
Right.  I guess you wouldn't, this is 1989, they're probably not active yet. That makes sense!  Okay.  Listen to me, three billion people died in 1995. Three billion, got that?  Almost the whole population.  Of the world! Only about one percent survived.
Are you going to save us, Mr. Cole?
Save you?  How can I save you?  It already happened!  I can't save you.  I'm simply trying to get some information for people in the present so that someday...  You don't believe me.  You think I'm crazy.  But I'm not crazy.  I'm a convict, sure, I have a quick temper, but I'm as sane as anyone in this room.  I...
Can you tell us the name of the prison you've come from?
Does this bother you, Mr. Cole?
 No!  Look, I don't belong here!  What I need to do is make a telephone call to straighten everything out.
Who would you call, Mr. Cole, who would straighten everything out?
Scientists.  I'm supposed to report in to them.  They'll want to know they sent me to the wrong time.
So you could talk to these scientists and they do what?  Send you to the future?
No, no.  I can't talk to them.  It's called, "voice mail".  I'm supposed to leave messages. They monitor it from the present.
"From the present."  We're not in the present now, Mr. Cole?
No, no.  This is the past.  This has already happened.  Listen...
Mr. Cole, you belong in 1995 -- that's the present, is that it?
No, 1995 is the past, too.  Look...
These scientists, Mr. Cole?  Are they doctors like ourselves?
No!  I mean yes, but... Look, I've been given a lot of drugs but I'm still perfectly lucid. You have to let me use the phone.  One call!
Yes?  Whaaaaat?  "Voice mail"!  I don't know what you're talkin' about. ... Is this a joke?  I don't know any scientists. James who?  Never heard of you!
It wasn't who you expected?
It was some lady.  She didn't know anything.
Perhaps it was a wrong number...
No.  That's the reason they chose me -- I remember things.
James, where did you grow up?  Was it around here?  Around Baltimore?
 What?
I have the...strangest feeling I've met you before...a long time ago, perhaps. Were you ever...?
Wait!  This is only 1989!  I'm supposed to be leaving messages in 1995.  It's not the right number yet.  That's the problem.  Damn!  How can I contact them?
James, take these.  Please -- I helped you like I said I would.  Now I want you to trust me.
WATCH IT!
NOOOOOOOOOO!
It won't work. You can't open it.
You think you can remove the grill but you can't.  It's welded.
See?  I toldja.  And all the doors are locked, too.  They're protecting the people on the outside from us.  But the people outside are as crazy as us.
You know what "crazy" is?  "crazy" is "majority rules".  Take germs for example.
Germs?!
In the 18th century there was no such thing!  Nobody'd ever imagined such a thing -- no sane person anyway.  Along comes this doctor...Semmelweiss, I think.  He tries to convince people... other doctors mostly...that there are these teeny tiny invisible "bad things" called germs that get into your body and make you...sick!  He's trying to get doctors to wash their hands.  What is this guy...crazy?  Teeny tiny invisible whaddayou call 'em?..."germs"!
So cut to the 20th century!  Last week in fact, right before I got dragged into this hellhole.  I order a burger in this fast food joint.  The waiter drops it on the floor.  He picks it up, wipes it off, hands it to me...like it was all okay.
"What about the germs?"  I say.  He goes, "I don't believe in germs.  Germs are just a plot they made up so they can sell you disinfectants and soap!" Now, he's crazy, right?  Hey, you believe in germs, don't you?
I'm not crazy.
Of course not, I never thought you were. You want to escape, right?  That's very sane.  I can help you.  You want me to, don't you?  Get you out?
If you know how to escape, why don't you...?
Why don't I escape, that's what you were going to ask me, right?  'Cause I'd be crazy to escape!  I'm all taken care of, see?  I've sent out word.
What's that mean?
I've managed to contact certain underlings, evil spirits, secretaries of secretaries, and assorted minions, who will contact my father. When he learns I'm in this kind of place, he'll have them transfer me to one of those classy joints where they treat you...properly. LIKE A GUEST!  LIKE A PERSON!  SHEETS! TOWELS!  LIKE A BIG HOTEL WITH GREAT DRUGS FOR THE NUT CASE LUNATIC MANIAC DEVILS...
Sorry.  Really sorry.  Got a little agitated.  The thought of escaping crossed my mind and suddenly...suddenly I felt LIKE BENDING THE FUCKING BARS BACK, RIPPING OFF THE GODDAMN WINDOW FRAMES AND...EATING THEM, YES, EATING THEM, AND LEAPING, LEAPING...
You dumb assholes!  I'm a mental patient! I'm supposed to act out.  Wait til you morons find out who I am.  My father's gonna be really upset.  AND WHEN MY FATHER GETS UPSET, THE GROUND SHAKES! MY FATHER IS GOD!  I WORSHIP MY FATHER.
Torture!  Experiments!  We're all monkeys
They hurt you!
Not as bad as what they're doing to kitty.
Look at those assholes, they're asking for it!  Maybe people deserved to be wiped out!
 Wiping cut the human race!  That's a great idea!  But it's more of a long term thing -- right now we have to focus on more immediate goals.  I didn't say a word about "you know what".
What are you talking about???
You know -- your plan.
What're you writing?  You a reporter?
 It's private.
A lawsuit?  You going to sue them?
Yo, James -- time to take your meds.
Take a chance.  Live the moment.  Sunshine. Gorgeous beaches.  The Florida Keys!
We'll return to the Marx Brothers in "Monkey Business" following these messages.
Monkey Business!  Monk Key Business.
Get it?  Monk - Key.  Monk!  Key!
 What....???
Wooooo, they really dosed you, bro. Major load!  Listen up -- try and get it together.  Focus!  Focus!  The plan! Remember?  I did my part.
What...???
Not, "what", babe!  When!
 Now!
Let us guide you to the stocks and bonds that will enhance your portfolio.
 YES -- NOW!  BUY NOW!  STOCKS AND BONDS! NO MORE MONKEY BUSINESS -- BUY NOW.
A portfolio tailored to your specific needs and the needs of your loved ones...
YES, YES.  ENHANCE YOUR PORTFOLIO NOW!
BUY!  SELL!  SEIZE THE OPPORTUNITY!
OPPORTUNITY!  DEFINITELY!  A WINDOW OF OPPORTUNITY!  OPENING NOW!  NOW'S THE TIME FOR ALL GOOD MEN TO SEIZE THE MOMENT!  YES! YES!  MASTERCARD!  VISA!  THE KEY TO HAPPINESS!
SEIZE THE MOMENT!  GET RICH!  NOW'S THE TIME!  GO FOR IT!
 God damn you, Jeffrey, quit playing the fool.
LAST CHANCE!  LAST CHANCE!  HEY -- OW!
Place to go would be...Florida.  The keys are lovely this tine of year.
Be careful.  J. Edgar Hoover isn't really dead.
Two's not working today.  Use one.
This was in my box, but I have a slight suspicion it wasn't meant for me.
"You are the most beautiful woman I have ever seen.  You live in a beautiful world.  But you don't know it.  You have freedom, sunshine, air you can breathe."
 Cole.  James Cole -- right?
"I would do anything to stay here, but I must leave.  Please, help me."
Poor man...
Hey, Kathryn, James Cole is one of yours, right?
He got out.  Took off.  Last seen, he was up on nine.
Just relax -- don't fight it.  We have to know exactly what's there so we can...
Eh, excuse me.  Can I help you?
It's just a shot to calm you.
No more drugs.  Please...
I have to do this, James.  You're very confused.
Don't be defensive, Kathryn, this isn't an inquisition.
I didn't think I was being defensive. I was just...
He should have been in restraints.  It was bad judgment on your part, plain and simple.  why not just cop to it?
Okay, it was bad judgment.  But I have the strangest feeling about him -- I've seen him somewhere and...
 Two policemen were already in the hospital and now we have an orderly with a broken arm and a Security Officer with a fractured skull.
I said it was bad judgment!  What else do you want me to say?
You see what I mean?  You're being defensive.  Isn't she being defensive, Bob?
Uh, Dr. Fletcher -- we got another... situation.
He was in full restraints?  And the door was locked?
Yes, sir.  Did it myself.
And he was fully sedated?
He was fully sedated!
Then are you trying to tell me that a fully sedated, fully restrained patient somehow slipped out that vent, replaced the grill behind him and that he's wriggling through the ventilation system right now?
Flight 784 to San Francisco now boarding at Gate 38...
NOOOOOOOOOO!
Cole, you moron -- wake up!
Well?
Uh, what?
He's drugged out of his mind!  He's completely zoned out.
Cole, did you or did you not record that message?
Uh, that message...me?
It's a digital reconstruction of a message, Cole, from a weak signal on our contact number.  Did you make that call?
 I couldn't call!  You sent me to the wrong year!  It was 1989.
1989!
You're certain of that?
 What did you do with your time, Cole? Did you waste it on drugs?  Women?
They forced me to take drugs.
Forced you!  Why would someone force you to take drugs?
I got into trouble.  I got arrested. But I still got you a specimen -- a spider -- but I didn't have anyplace to put it, so I ate it.  It was the wrong year anyway, so I guess it doesn't matter.
Cole!
What about it, Cole?
Did you see it?
Uh, no, sir.  I...
What about these people?  Did you see any of these people?
Uh, no, sir, I...wait!
Him?  You saw that man?
Uh, I think so.  In the mental hospital.
 You were in a mental institution?!
You were sent to make very important observations!
You could have made a real contribution.
Helped to reclaim the planet...
As well as reducing your sentence.
The question is, Cole -- "Do you want another chance?"
Hey!  Who's that?
Hey, Bob...what's your name?
Where are you?
You can talk!  Wah'dja do, Bobby boy? Volunteer?
My name's not "Bob".
Not a prob, Bob.  Where'd they send you?
Where are you?
Another cell. ...  Maybe.
What do you mean, "maybe"?  What's that supposed to mean?
Maybe.  Means "maybe" I'm in the next cell, another "volunteer" like you -- or "maybe" I'm in the Central Office spying on you for all those science bozos.  Or, hey, "maybe" I'm not even here.  "Maybe" I'm just in your head.  No way to confirm anything. Ha Ha.  Where'd they send you?
Not talking, huh, Bob?  That's okay I can handle that.
1989.
89!  How was it?  Good drugs?  Lotsa pussy?  Hey, Bob, you do the job?  D'ju find out the "big info"?...Army of the Twelve Monkeys...where the virus was prior to mutation?
It was supposed to be 1995.
Science isn't an exact science with these clowns.  You're lucky you didn't end up in ancient Egypt!
No mistakes this time, Cole.
Stay alert.  Keep your eyes open.
Good thinking about that spider, Cole. Try and do something like that again.
Just relax now -- don't fight it.  We have to know exactly what's there so we can fix it.
 Where's your mask?!  And your clothes... and your weapon, you idiot?!
What?  What??
 Captain!  A Kraut!  We got a Kraut!
I don't understand.  Where am I?
 How'd you get here, soldier?  What's your rank?  Where are your clothes?
I...don't understand.
 German!  Speak German!  What are you doing here?
 I gotta find 'em.  I gotta find 'em. Please, you gotta help me!
JOSE!
Cole!  Oh, God, Cole, where are we?
According to the accounts of local officials at that time, this gentleman, judged to be about forty years of age, appeared suddenly in the village of Wyle near Stonehenge in the West of England in April of 1162.  Using unfamiliar words and speaking in a strange accent, the man made dire prognostications about a pestilence which he predicted would wipe out humanity in approximately 8OO years.  Deranged and hysterical, the man raped a young woman of the village, was taken into custody, but then mysteriously escaped and was not heard of again.
In 1841, Mackay wrote, "During seasons of great pestilence, men have often believed the prophecies of crazed fanatics, that the end of the world was come."  Obviously, this plague/doomsday scenario is considerably more compelling when reality supports it in some form, whether it's the Bubonic Plague, smallpox, or AIDS.  In addition to these "natural" contagions, there are now technological horrors as well:  besides radiation, consider our lurking fear of germ warfare and its close approximation, chemical warfare, which first reared its ugly head in the deadly mustard gas attacks during the First World War.
During such an attack in the French trenches in October, 1917, we have an account of this soldier...
-- who, during an assault, was wounded by shrapnel and hospitalized behind the lines where Doctors discovered he had lost all comprehension of French but spoke English fluently, albeit in a regional dialect they didn't recognize. The man, although physically unaffected by the gas, was hysterical.  He claimed he had come from the future, that he was looking for a pure germ that would ultimately wipe mankind off the face of the earth in the year... 1995!
Although seriously injured, the young soldier disappeared from the hospital before more data could be gathered.  No doubt, he was trying to carry on his mission to warn others, substituting for the agony of war...a self-inflicted agony we call the "Cassandra Complex".
Cassandra, in Greek legend you will recall, was condemned to know the future but to be disbelieved when she foretold it.  Hence, the agony of foreknowledge combined with impotence to do anything about it.
I think, Dr. Railly, you have given your alarmists a bad name.  Surely there is very real and very convincing data that the planet cannot survive the excesses of the human race:  proliferation of atomic devices, uncontrolled breeding habits, the rape of the environment, the pollution of land, sea, and air.  In this context, isn't it obvious that "Chicken Little" represents the sane vision and that Homo Sapiens' motto, "Let's go shopping!" is the cry of the true lunatic?
Doctor Railly -- please!  I wonder if you're aware of my own studies which indicate that certain cycles of the moon actually impact on the incidence of apocalyptic predictions as observed in urban emergency rooms and...
You were great.
You're leaving?
The reservation's at nine thirty -- it's getting late.
Doctor Railly -- please -- this is very important!
 You sure you're gonna be all right?
 I'll be there in twenty minutes.
Dr. Railly, I simply cannot understand your exclusion of the moon in relation to apocalyptic dementia...
Get in!
I've got a gun.
You can have my purse.  I have a lot of cash and credit...
Start the car.
Here!  You can have the keys.  You can...
START THE CAR!  NOW!
I don't want to hurt you.  But I will. I've hurt people before when...when I had no choice.  Turn left.
Where... where are we going'
I need you to drive me to Philadelphia.
 But that's... that's more than 200 miles!
That's why I can't walk there.  Turn here... I think...
If you make me go with you, it's kidnapping.  That's a serious crime. If you let me go, you could just take the car and...
I don't know how to drive!  We went underground when I was nine, I told you that.  When you come to the corner, turn right.
Cole!  James Cole!  You escaped from a locked room six years ago.
1989.  Six years for you.  There's the sign!  Right here!
I can't believe this is a coincidence, Mr. Cole.  Have you been...following me?
You told me you'd help me.  I know this isn't what you meant, but...I was desperate... no money...bum leg... sleeping on the streets. I probably smell bad.  Sorry about that. But then I saw your book in a store window with a notice about your lecture.  I can read, remember?
Yes, I remember.  Why do you want to go to Philadelphia?
It's the next step.  I checked out the Baltimore information, it was nothing. It's Philadelphia, that's where they are, the ones who killed everyone.  Zs that a radio?  Does it play music?
This is a personal message to you.
Are you at the end of your rope?  Are you dying to get away?
I've never seen the ocean!
It's an advertisement, Mr. Cole.  You do understand that, don't you?  It's not really a special message to you.
You used to call me "James".
You'd prefer that? ... James...you don't really have a gun, do you.
 Everybody's got a gun.  In this city...
Can you...can you make it louder?  I love hearing twentieth century music! Hearing music and breathing air!
This just in from Fresno, California: emergency crews are converging on a cornfield where playmates of nine year old Ricky Neuman say they saw him disappear right before their eyes.
Young Neuman apparently stepped into an abandoned well shaft and is lodged somewhere in the narrow 150 foot pipe, possibly alive, possibly seriously injured.  Playmates claim they heard him cry out faintly but since then there has been no contact with...
"Never cry wolf!"
What?
My father told me that.  "Never cry wolf."  Then people won't believe you if...something really happens.
"If something really happens"...like what, James?
Something bad.  Is that all the music? I don't want to hear this stuff...
Did something terrible happen to you when you were a child?  Something so bad...?
Ohhhh, that one!  Can we hear that one?
"Since I met you, baby, My whole life has changed...
"-- cause since I met you, baby. All I need is you..."
Dr. Railly -- this is Palmer from Psych Admitting.  There was a guy here this afternoon looking for you.  He seemed very agitated.  We tried to keep him, but he refused 'n I kept thinking, I know this guy.  Then, just a few minutes ago, it came to me.  It's Cole!  James Cole. Remember him?  The paranoid who pulled the Houdini back in '89.  Well, he's back and he's...cuckoo...and he's looking for you.  I thought you oughta know.
It's just as I told you -- my husband and I had gone ahead -- she never showed.  That's totally unlike her!
 Do you happen to know the make of her car?
Um...Acura...'92 Acura. ... Also, that cat's starving!  She would never neglect her cat!
Son, it's important for your cat to have the nourishment necessary for healthy bones and a rich coat.
Please untie me.  I'm very uncomfortable.
You were in my dream just now.  Your hair was different, but I'm sure it was you.
We dream about what's important in our lives. And I seem to have become pretty important in yours.  What was the dream about?
About an airport...before everything happened.  It's the same dream I always have -- the only one.  I'm a little kid in it.
And I was in it?  What did I do?
You were very upset.  You're always very upset in the dream, but I never knew it was you before.
It wasn't me before, James.  It's become me now because of...what's happening.  Please untie me.
No, I think it was always you.  It's very strange.
You're flushed.  And you were moaning. I think you're running a fever.  What are you doing?
I'll be back in a minute.
No!  Don't leave me here like this!
And in Fresno, California...crews continue to attempt to rescue nine year old Ricky Neuman.
The boy was playing ball with four other children when he literally disappeared off the face of the earth.
My notes.  Observations.  Clues.
Clues?  What kind of clues?
A secret army.  The Army of The Twelve Monkeys.  I've told you about them. They spread the virus.  That's why we have to get to Philadelphia.  I have to find them -- it's my assignment.
What will you do...when you find this...secret army?
I just have to locate the virus in its original form before it mutates.  So scientists can come back and study it and find a cure.  So that those of us who survived can go back to the surface of the earth.
You won't think I'm crazy next month. People are going to start dying.  At first the papers will say it's some weird fever, some virus.  Then they'll begin to catch on.  They'll get it.
We interrupt this program with a special bulletin...
This report just in from Fresno, California.  Naval sonar specialists who were flown to the site...
I thought it was about us.  I thought maybe they'd found us and arrested me or something.
Just a joke.
-- an hour ago have been unable to determine the location of the boy in the 150 foot shaft...but a TV sound man who lowered an ultra-sensitive microphone into the narrow tube claims he heard breathing sounds coming from approximately seventy feet down...
Does that disturb you, James?  Thinking about that little boy in the well?
When I was a kid I identified with that kid, down there alone in that pipe...a hundred feet down -- doesn't know if they're going to save him.
What do you mean -- when you were a kid?
Nevermind.  It's not real -- it's a hoax.  A prank.  He's hiding in a barn. Hey, turn left here.  Left!
"And the wild beasts of the islands shall cry in their desolate houses and dragons in their pleasant palaces:  and her time is near to come, and her days shall not be prolonged."
Where I come from we think of this as Eden. If we could just see the sun, eat sun-grown food.  Eden!  Look at them!  They donut know what they have.  They don't see the sky.  They don't feel the air!
And the ones who aren't hungry are so smug they haven't a clue.  WAIT!  STOP!
The Twelve Monkeys!!!  They're here.  Somewhere.  Come on!
Look, I'm warning you.  You do anything, I'm going to go crazy -- hurt people!
I'm not going to "do" anything, I promise.  But you need help, James. None of this is what you think it is.
You can't hide from them, Bob.
No, sir, Old Bob -- don't even try.  They hear everything.  They got that tracking device on you.  They can find you anywhere.  Anytime.  Ha Ha!
 In the tooth, Bob!  Right?  But I fooled 'em, old buddy!
They're keeping an eye on me.
Who's keeping an eye on you?
The man...with the voice.  I recognized him.  He's from the present.  He...
James, no -- we shouldn't be here!
James!  We have to go back.  Those men...
Hey, buddy.
Stick around, bitch.
Please!  Please don't hurt me!
Are you hurt?
Uh, no.  Yes.  I mean, just some scrapes...
Is he...alive?
Come an.  We're running out of time. You can't help him.
Oh, Jesus, James!  You killed him!
I did him a favor.  Now come on.
You didn't have a gun before, did you?
I've got one now.
You!  You!  You're one of us, aren't you?
Uh, can we help you?
Excuse me.  You looking for something in particular?
It's all right, James -- it's just a tape.
I, uh, I'm looking for the, ah, the Army of the Twelve Monkeys.
We don't know anything about any "Army of the Twelve Monkeys", so why don't you and your friend disappear, okay?
I just need some information...
Didn't you hear me?  We're not...
James, no -- don't hurt them.  Please, I'm a psychiatrist -- just do whatever he tells you to do.  He's... upset -- disturbed.  Please -- he's dangerous -- just cooperate.
What do you want -- money?  We only have a few bucks.
I told you what I want.  Lock the door!
James, why don't we...?
Lock it now!
I told you that fuckhead Mason would get us into something like this.
Shut up!
Mason???
Jeffrey Mason?
Yeah, tucking, crazy Jeffrey Mason.
Then, Jeffrey becomes like this...big star -- the media latch on to him because he's picketing his own father, a "famous Nobel Prize winning virologist". You musta seen all that on TV.
No, I don't watch TV.
Is this him -- Dr. Mason?
That's him.
 What are you going to do with us?
 Tell me more about Jeffrey.
 Jeffrey started getting bored with the shit we do...picketing, leafleting, letter-writing stuff.  He said we were, "ineffectual liberal jerkoffs".  He wanted to do guerrilla "actions" to "educate" the public.
Yeah, that's when he let a hundred snakes loose in the Senate.
But we weren't into that kind of stuff. It's counter productive, we told him.
So he and eleven others split off and became this underground..."army"
The Army of The Twelve Monkeys.
They started planning a "Human Hunt".
They bought stun guns and nets and bear traps.  They were gonna go to Wall Street and trap lawyers and bankers...
But they didn't do it.  They didn't do any of it.
Yeah, just like always, Mr. Big Shot sold his friends out!
What's that mean?
He goes on TV, gives a news conference, tells the whole world he just realized his daddy's experiments are vital for humanity and that the use of animals is absolutely necessary and that he, Jeffrey Mason, from now on, is going to personally supervise the labs to make sure all the little animals aren't going to suffer.
 What's this?
You can't just barge in on a famous scientist.  They'll have security guards, gates, alarm systems.  It's insane, James.
If those young men don't get loose, they could die in that basement.
All I see are dead people.  Everywhere. What's three more?
 You know Dr. Mason's son, Jeffrey Mason, don't you, James?  You met him in the County Hospital six years ago.
The guy was a total fruitcake.
And he told you then his father was a famous virologist.
No -- he said his father was "God"!
This just in:  police are widening their search for Dr. Kathryn Railly, prominent psychiatrist and author. Authorities confirm that Dr. Railly has been abducted by escaped mental patient, James Cole. The two are believed to be traveling in Railly's 1992 black Acura, license plate H-E-A-D-D-R.
This can't go on, James.  You're not well.  You're burning with fever.
We need gas.
I thought you didn't know how to drive.
I said I was too young to drive.  I didn't say I was stupid.
What's the matter with your leg?
I got shot.  Look -- there's a gas station up ahead.
Shot!  Who shot you?
It was some kind of...war.  Never mind, you wouldn't believe me.  Turn off here.
You were going to run out off gas on purpose, weren't you?
No.  I want you to turn yourself in, James -- It'll go much better for you if you do -- but I'm not going to trick you.
 That has your name on it.  Give him cash.
Where are you going?
You can come with me.  I have to get some things.  Scissors, bandages, some alcohol or whiskey. ... I have to look at your leg, James.  I'm a doctor.
Meanwhile in Fresno, where mining engineers continue their desperate attempt to sink a shaft parallel to the ant in which nine year old...
You shouldn't put your weight on it. You need stitches and antibiotics. Lucky for you it was near the surface.
I love seeing the sun.
Wait -- let me help you.
 You smell so good.
 You have to give yourself up, you know.
I have to do something now.  Something I don't want to do.  I'm so sorry.
I have a mission.  It's important.
They find him?
Who??
That kid.  The one in the pipe.
You believe this?  They're dropping a monkey down there with a miniature infra-red camera strapped on him and a roast beef sandwich wrapped in tinfoil.
You're making that up!
I shit you not. ... Man, life is weird! A monkey and a sandwich.  Wonder who thought that one up.
Probly give the sonafabitch a Nobel Prize!
Would that I could enjoy this opulent dinner and this excellent and stimulating company for itself, with no sense of purpose.  But alas, I am "burdened" with the sense that with all this excess of public attention and this cacophony of praise, there comes great responsibility.  Indeed, I practically feel a soapbox growing under my feet whenever I stand for more than a few seconds.
The dangers of science are a time worn threat, from Prometheus stealing fire from the Gods to the Cold War era of the Dr. Strangelove Terror.
But never before, not even at Los Alamos when the scientists made bets on whether their first atomic bomb test would wipe out New Mexico, has science given us so much reason to fear the power we have at hand.
What are you talking about?  What friend?  I'm not expecting anyone.
Current genetic engineering as well as my own work with viruses has presented us with powers as terrifying as any...
This is ridiculous.  My father is making a major address.
Normally if we caught a guy sneaking around like this with no I.D., we'd bust his ass, excuse the French, but this one said he knows you...  -- and, since you seem to have had some...uh...unusual...uh..."associates", we certainly didn't want to arrest one of your, uh, closest...pals.
 Never saw him before in my life.  Go ahead and shoot him or torture him or whatever it is you do.
 You do know me.  You helped me once.
 That would be totally out of character. Helping people is against my principles.  See, he definitely doesn't know me.  Now, I'm going to go back and listen to my father's very eloquent discourse on the perils of science WHILE YOU TORTURE THIS INTRUDER TO DEATH.
I'm here about some monkeys.
Excuse me -- what did you say?
Monkeys.  Twelve of them.
Arnold...Arnold.
 My God, Arnie, what's happened to you? You look like shit
 You know this man?
Of course I know him.  What do you think -- I act like this to strangers? Listen -- you fellas are terrific.  I thought you were pulling a number on me.  What a terrible thing if you'd thrown old Arnie out.  I owe you guys the big apologia!  Mea culpa, fellas.  Christ, Arnie, it's black tie!  I mean, I said, "drop by," but, like, this is Dad's big "do"...vips, senators, secret service, and...and everything.
"Arnie?"
Arnold Pettibone.  Old Arnie Pettibone. Used to be my best friend.  Still is. What've you lost, Arnie -- forty pounds? No wonder I didn't know you. You hungry? Lots of dead cow, dead lamb, dead pig. Real killer feast we're putting on tonight.
These people -- all of 'em -- are true weirdoes!
 I'm gonna call in a description of this "Pettibone" character.  You go keep an eye on him.  Make sure he doesn't do one of the guests with a fork.
Hey, nice ta see ya.  Lookin' good!  Hi, there.  Yes, it has been a long time.
 County Hospital, right?  1989.  The "Immaculate Escape" -- am I right?  Why, thank you -- you look wonderful, too.
Listen to me -- I can't do anything about what you're going to do. I can't change anything.  I can't stop you.  I just want some information...
We need to talk.  Come on.  Upstairs.  I am a new person!  I'm completely adjusted.  Witness the tux.  It's Armani.  Who chattered?  Goines?  Weller?
I just need to have access to the pure virus, that's all!  For the future!
Come on, follow me.  You don't lock so good.
I don't have time to go upstairs.  The police are looking for me.  I need to know where it is and exactly what it is.
 I get it!  This is your old plan, right?
Plan?  What are you talking about?
Remember?  We were in the dayroom, watching TV, and you were all upset about the...desecration of the planet. And you said to me, "Wouldn't it be great if there was a germ or a virus that could wipe out mankind and leave the plants and animals just as they are?"  You do remember that, don't you?
Bulishit!  You're fucking with my head!
And that's when I told you my father was this famous virologist and you said, "Hey, he could make a germ and we could steal it!"
 Listen, you dumb fuck!  The thing mutates We live underground!  The world belongs to the fucking dogs and cats.  We're like moles or worms.  All we want to do is study the original...
Okay -- take it easy.  We know who you are, Mr. Cole.
Let's go somewhere and talk this thing over. Okay? Just come with me...
You're right!  Absolutely right.  Me's a nut case, totally deranged.  Delusional! Paranoid.  HIS PROCESSOR'S ALL FUCKED UP, HIS INFORMATION TRAY IS JAMMED.
YOU KNOW WHAT IT IS, THE "ARMY OF THE TWELVE MONKEYS"?  IT'S A COLLECTION OF NATURE KOOKS WHO RUN A STORE DOWNTOWN. SPACE-CASE DO-GOODERS SAVING RAIN FORESTS. I HAVE NOTHING TO DO WITH THOSE BOZOS ANYMORE. I QUIT BEING THE RICH KID FALL GUY FOR A BUNCH OF INEFFECTUAL BANANAS. SO MUCH FOR YOUR GRAND PLOT!
Take it easy, Mr. Mason, we've got him. Everything's...
MY FATHER HAS BEEN WARNING PEOPLE ABOUT THE DANGERS OF EXPERIMENTATION WITH VIRUSES AND DNA FOR YEARS. YOU'VE "PROCESSED" THAT INFORMATION THROUGH YOUR ADDLED PARANOID INFRA-STRUCTURE AND LO AND BEHOLD, I'M FRANKENSTEIN AND THE "ARMY OF THE TWELVE MONKEYS" BECOMES SOME SORT OF SINISTER REVOLUTIONARY CABAL. THIS MAN IS TOTALLY BATSHIT! YOU KNOW WHERE HE THINKS HE COMES FROM???
Did a man just come through here...limping?
These pictures we are seeing are coming to us live from deep inside the pipe. You can just make out the metal wall behind those roots and I guess those must be spider webs.
Well, if you ask me, I think that monkey is going to eat the sandwich himself.
This just in:  Police say that the body of a woman found strangled in the Knutson state Park could be kidnap victim, Dr. Kathryn Railly.
Earlier in the day, police located Railly's abandoned car not far from a building where three animal rights activists were found bound and gagged...
COME ON OUT, MR COLE -- WE'RE NOT GOING TO HURT YOU.
LIGHTS!  LIGHTS!
There!  He's showing lights.
Goddamnit!  Where is he?
There!  Over there.
Where? CO-PILOT Eight o'clock!  He was right there.
He musta turned his lights of if.
Couldn't drive down there without lights.  We just can't see 'em.
Maybe he's not driving!
He's not in here.
You bastard!  You total bastard!
I could have died in there.  If something had happened to you I would have died.
I...I...I'm really sorry.
What have you done?  Did you...kill someone?
 No!  I...don't think so.  I stole a car and they chased me.  I hit a tree.
See -- you can drive after all!
Yeah, sort of, I guess.  I...I'm sorry I locked you up.  I thought...I thought... I think maybe I am crazy!
What made you think that?
Jeffrey Mason said it was my idea about the virus.  And suddenly, I wasn't sure.  We talked when I was in the institution, and it was all...fuzzy. The drugs and stuff.  You think maybe I'm the one who wiped out the human race?  It was my idea?
Nobody is going to wipe out the human race.  Not you or Jeffrey or anybody else.  You've created something in your mind, James -- a substitute reality. In order to avoid something you don't want to face.
I'm..."mentally divergent".  I would love to believe that.
It can be dealt with, but only if you want to.  I can help you.
I need help all right.  They're coming after me.
First, it's important that you surrender to them instead of them catching you running.  Okay?
 It would be great if I'm crazy.  If I'm wrong about everything...the world will be okay.  I'll never have to live underground.
Give me the gun.
The gun! ... I lost it
You're sure?
 No gun!  Stars!  Air!  I can live here.  Breathe!
I'm going to attract their attention, let them know where we are, okay?
 They'll tell you to put your hands on top of your head.  Do what they tell you.  You're going to get better, James -- I know it!
I love this world!
Remember, I'm going to help you.  I'll stay with you.  I won't let them...
Then I said something to him about cooperating and he said he would do that, so I got in the car and started honking the horn.  When I got out, he was gone.
You lucked out.  For a while we thought you were a body they found down state... mutilated.
He wouldn't do something like that -- he...
 This the man he attacked?
I'd like to be clear about this.  That man and the other one were..."severely" beating us.  James Cole didn't start it.  In fact -- he saved me!
Funny thing, Doctor, maybe you can explain it to me, you being a psychiatrist -- why do kidnap victims almost always try to tell us about the guys who grabbed 'em and try to make us understand how kind these bastards really were?
 It's a normal reaction to a life- threatening situation.  He's sick.  He thinks he comes from the future.  He's been living in a carefully constructed fantasy world and that world is starting to disintegrate.  He needs help!
Wake up! Wake up!
I think we gave him too much.
WAKE UP, PRISONER!
Come on, Cole, cooperate!
Spit it out... you went to the home of a famous virologist...
 You...don't...exist!  You're in my mind...
What?  What's that?  What did he say?  His brain's fried.  Give him another shot! SPEAK UP, COLE.  WHAT DID YOU DO NEXT?
The kidnap victim seemed exhausted but apparently unharmed by her 30 hour ordeal as she left the police station in Philadelphia this morning.  So far she has refused to make a public statement.
Sorry.
No -- I'm in a state of hyper- alertness.  I can't sleep.
Did you take the sedative?
I hate those things.  They mess my head up.
Along with the kidnapping of the Baltimore woman, James Cole is now also wanted in connection with the brutal slaying of Rodney Wiggins, an ex-convict from...
Do they really expect him to come here?
 He's dead, isn't he -- that little boy?
He's fine.  It was just a "prank" he and his friends pulled.
Authorities have so far been noncommittal about whether they will try to file charges against the families of the children involved in the hoax.
---found my thrills on Blueberry Hill...
Well done, James!  Well done!  Nice going!  Congratulations!  Good for you!
During your "interview," while you were..."under the influence," you told us you liked music!
This isn't the prison, James.
This is a hospital.
But just until you recover your, uh,... equilibrium.
You're still a little... disoriented.
Stress!  Time travel!
You stood up very well, considering...
Superior work!  Superior!
You connected the Army of the 12 Monkeys to a world famous virologist and his son...
Others will take over now...
We'll be back on the surface in a matter of months....
We'll retake the planet.
We're very close!  Because of you!
 This is it, James...what you've been working for.
A full pardon!
You'll be out of here in no time.
Women will want to get to know you...
I DON'T WANT YOUR "WOMEN," YOU BRAINLESS TWIT! I WANT TO BE WELL!
 Of course you want to be well, James. And you will be...soon.
YOU DON'T EXIST, YOU SILLY BOZOS! YOU'RE NOT REAL! HA HA HA! PEOPLE DON'T TRAVEL IN TIME! YOU AREN'T HERE. MADE YOU UP!  YOU CAN'T TRICK ME! YOU'RE IN MY MIND! I'M INSANE AND YOU'RE MY INSANITY!
He not only used the word "prank" -- he said the boy was hiding in a barn.
He kidnapped you, Kathryn.  You saw him murder someone.  You knew there was a real possibility he would kill you, too.  You were under tremendous emotional stress.
For God sakes, Owen, listen to me -- he knew about the boy in Fresno and he says three billion people are going to die!
Kathryn, you know he can't possibly know that.  You're a rational person. You're a trained psychiatrist.  You know the difference between what's real and what's not.
And what we believe is what's accepted as "truth" now, isn't it, Owen?  Psychiatry -- it's the latest religion.  And we're the priests -- we decide what's right and what's wrong --we decide who's crazy and who isn't. ... I'm in trouble, Owen.  I'm losing my faith.
You sure fucked up, Bob!
But I can understand you don't want your mistakes pointed out to you. I can relate to that, old Bob.
Hey, I know what you're thinking.  You're thinking I don't exist except in your head.  I can see that point of view.  But you could still talk to me, couldn't you? Carry on a decent conversation?
 I saw you! In 1995!  In the real world! You were a bum!  You pulled out your teeth.
Why would I pull out my teeth, Bob? They don't like that.  That's a no-no. And when did you say you saw me? In...1872?
FUCK YOU!
Yelling won't get you what you want.  You have to be smart to get what you want.
Oh, yeah?  What do I want?
You don't know what you want?  Sure you do, Bob.  You know what you want.
Tell me.  Tell me what I want.
To see the sky -- and the ocean -- to be topside -- breathe the air -- to be with her. ... Isn't that right?  Isn't that what you want?
More...than...anything.
Dr. Railly?  Jim Halperin, Philly P.D.. Sorry to call so early but...
You found him?  Is he all right?
Au contraire, Doctor.  No sign of your good friend, the kidnapper.  However, the plot thickens.  I have a ballistic report on my desk that says the bullet you claim you removed from Mr. Cole's thigh is an antique...and all indications are it was fired...sometime prior to 1920.
So what I was thinking was, maybe if I sent a detective down there to talk with you, you could maybe revise or amplify on the circumstances.... Hello?  Hello?  Dr. Railly?
No!
The food, the sky, the certain, uh, sexual temptations -- you haven't become "addicted" have you, Cole?  To that "dying" world'
No, sir!  I just want to do my part. To get us back on top...in charge of the planet.  And I have the experience, I know who the people are...
He really is the most qualified...
But all that..."behavior"...
 You said we weren't "real," Cole...
Well, sir, I don't think the human mind was built to exist in two different... whatever you call it..."dimensions." It's stressful, you said it yourselves, it gets you confused.  You don't know what's real and what's not.
But you know what's real now?
Yes, sir.
He'd have to bone up, catch up to our research, the latest clues...
He's proved to be a quick study...
You can't trick us, you know.  It wouldn't work.
And why would you want to?  It'll be dangerously close to the end.
I understand.  There'd be no point.
We're going to think about it, Cole. Among ourselves.  We'll get back to you.
You have reason to believe that my son may be planning to do what?!!!
Please, I know it sounds insane but...
 I'm afraid this doesn't seem very professional to me, in fact it's distressingly unprofessional for some- one who treated my son briefly (if indeed you actually are who you say you are) to take a sudden unsolicited interest in his mental health six years later, and to telephone a parent to express opinions that would be inappropriate...  I don't know anything about "Monkey armies", Doctor.  Nothing whatsoever. If my son ever was involved in...  It would be doubly inappropriate to discuss matters of security with you, Dr. Railly, but if it will put you at ease, neither my son nor any other unauthorized person has access to any potentially dangerous organisms in this laboratory.  Thank you for your concern.
The psychiatrist who was kidnapped by that man who broke into my house.  She seems to have been suddenly struck by the most preposterous notion about Jeffrey.
Has she succumbed to her own theoretical..."disease"?
Given the nature of our work, we can't ever be careful enough.  I think we should review our security procedures, perhaps upgrade them.
Let's consider again our current information -- if the symptoms were first detected in Philadelphia on June 28, 1995, that makes us know that...?
It was released in Philadelphia, probably on June 14, 1995.
And it appeared sequentially after that in...?
San Francisco, New Orleans, Rio de Janeiro, Rome, Kinshasa, Karachi, Bangkok, then Peking.
Meaning...???
That the virus was taken from Philadelphia to San Francisco, then to New Orleans, Rio de Janeiro, Rome, Kinshasa, Karachi, Bangkok, then Peking.
And your only goal is...???
To find out where the virus is so a qualified scientist can travel back into the past and study the original virus.
So that...???
Uh, so that a vaccine can be developed that will, uh, allow mankind to reclaim the surface of the earth.
This is from a magazine printed in late September, 1995.  The writer speculated that this graffiti might be related to the epidemic that by that time had already killed thirty million people world-wide and was getting worse.  He says, certain people, unnamed, were questioned, but what came of that is not known.  But it is a clue you should pursue.
IS ANYBODY IN THERE?  HELLO?  IS SOMEONE IN THERE?  IF YOU'RE IN THERE, I NEED TO TALK TO YOU.
It's the kidnap woman -- the one who was with the guy who tied us up.
What's she doing?
She's drawing attention to us, that's what she's doing. ... I don't know what you're up to this time, Mason, but you're gonna get us in deep shit!
Whine, whine, whine.  What about walkie talkies?  We used to have walkie talkies.
I SAW YOU!  I SAW SOMEONE MOVING.  I KNOW YOU'RE IN THERE!
Secret experiments!
That's what they do -- secret weird stuff!
You!  I know you!
Not just on them.  Do 'em on people, too -- down at the shelters.  Feed 'em chemicals 'n take pictures of 'em.
Have you seen James Cole?  The man...?
They're watchin' you.  Takin' pictures.
The police.  I know.  Listen, I need to talk to James, but he has to be careful how he contacts me.  He mustn't get caught.  Do you understand me?
Uh, yeah, sure.  Uh...who's James?
He was with me, he spoke to you. Several weeks ago.  He said you were from the future...watching him.
You get the bolt cutters?
One dozen.  They're in the van.
One dozen bolt cutters!  Whadda you gonna do with one dozen bolt cutters?
 You really want to know?
No!  Absolutely not. Don't tell me anything.
Hey!  Do you know what she's doing?
What's it say?
I can't see it.
 WHY DON'T WE FORGET MY GODDAMN PSYCHIATRIST AND DEAL WITH THE TASK AT HAND.  THIS IS IMPORTANT.
 Your psychiatrist?  Did you just say, "your psychiatrist"?
Ex-psychiatrist!  Now, what about flashlights?  How many flashlights...?
That woman is...was...your... psychiatrist?  And now she's spray- painting our building?
Kathryn!
James!
James!  That's a policeman.  Pretend you don't know me.  If he sees you...
 No, I want to turn myself in.  Where is he?  Don't worry -- it's all okay now.  I'm not crazy any more!  I mean, I am crazy, mentally divergent, actually, but I know it now and I want you to help me.  I want to get well...
James -- put your hands down and listen to me.  Things have changed!
James, come on!  We have to get out of here!
I've seen that...before.
James, trust me.  We're in terrible trouble.  We have to run.
Wow, a guy in a Chevy is chasing her and some other guy I can't see.
Hey, no problem, it's probably just another kidnapping featuring Jeffrey's shrink, pardon me, make that ex-shrink.  This is your leader, a certifiable lunatic who told his former psychiatrist all his plans for God knows what whacko irresponsible schemes, and now who knows what she's painted out there on our wall?
WHO CARES WHAT PSYCHIATRISTS WRITE ON WALLS?  You think I told her about the Army of the 12 Monkeys?  Impossible!  Know why, you pathetically ineffectual and pusillanimous "pretend-friend-to- animals"?!  I'll tell you why:  because when I had anything to do with her six years ago, there was no such thing -- I hadn't even thought of it yet!
 Then how come she knows what's going on?
Here's my theory on that.  While I was institutionalized, my brain was studied exhaustively in the guise of mental health. I was interrogated, x-rayed, studied thoroughly.  Then, everything about me was entered into a computer where they created a model of my mind.
Then, using the computer model, they generated every thought I could possibly have in the next, say ten years, which they then filtered through a probability matrix to determine everything I was going to do in that period.  So you see, she knew I was going to lead the Army of the Twelve Monkeys into the pages of history before it ever even occurred to me.  She knows everything I'm ever going to do before I know it myself.  How about that?
Now I have to get going -- do my part. You guys check all this stuff out and load up the van.  Make sure you have everything.  I'm outta here.
He's seriously crazy -- you know that.
James!  Come on.
I don't understand what we're doing.
 We're avoiding the police until I can....talk to you.
 You mean, treat me?  Cure me?  Kathryn, those words on the wall -- I've seen them before...  I...I...dreamed them.
Twenty five bucks an hour.
An hour?!
You want quarter hours, go someplace else.
 Here's ninety eight.  For the night.  Deal?
Forty four.  Fourth floor, turn right. Elevator's busted.
Tommy?  This is Charlie at the Globe. You know if Wallace has a new girl? Sort of a rookie type?  Blonde?
Okay...you were standing there looking at the moon...you were eating grass... then what?
I thought I was in...prison again.
Just like that?  You were in prison?
No, not really.  It's...it's in my mind.  Like you said.
You disappeared!  One minute you were there, the next minute you were gone. Did you run through the woods?
I don't know -- I don't remember.
The boy in the well.  How did you know that was just a hoax?
It was?  I didn't...know.
James, you said he was hiding in the barn...
I think I saw a TV show like that when I was a kid.  Where a boy...
IT WASN'T A TV SHOW!  IT WAS REAL!
Well, maybe that kid saw the same TV show and copied it.  Listen, you were right, it's all in my head.  I'm mentally ill, I imagine all that stuff.  I know they're not real, I can trick them, make them do what I want.  I just worked on them in my head and I got back here.  I can get better.  I can stay here.
What does this mean to you?
...I had a dream about...something like that.
You had a bullet from World War One in your leg, James!  How did it get there?
You said I had delusions -- that I created a world -- you said you could explain everything...
Well, I can't. ... I mean...I'm trying to.  I can't believe that everything we do or say has already happened, that we can't change what's going to happen, that I'm one of the three billion people who are going to die...soon.
I want to be here.  In this time.  With you.  I want to become...become a whole person.  I want this to be the present. I want the future to be unknown.
 James...do you remember...six years ago...you had a phone number!  You tried to call and...
This is my territory, bitch!
 Is this real -- or is this one of my delusions?
This is definitely real:  Excuse me, I think we have a little misunderstanding here...
What're you -- some kind of tough guy? You wanna be a hero?  You gonna try and mess with me?  Come on...
Now that's a smart boy.  But you, honey, you think you can go 'round me and peddle your fancy ass in this part of town, you bet your life we got what I would call a major goddamn misunderstandin'.
JAMES -- DON'T!
 You...heard...her.  Don't do it, man.
 Put him in the closet, ... But get his money first.
 You want me to rob him?
I...I...We need cash, James.
They're killing him!  Call the cops.
You two are crazy.  I got friends.  You put me in a closet, they're gonna be really pissed.
James, no!
 James, what are you doing?
I have friends, man -- if you cut me...
What...the...fuck..are you doing???
Oh, my God, James.  Did you kill him?
Just...just in case.  In case I'm not crazy...  That's how they find us.  By our teeth.  I don't want them to find me.  Ever.  I don't want to go back.
Push it tight!
NO PROBLEM!  I'LL JUST STAY IN HERE! DON'T WORRY ABOUT ME.
POLICE!  THROW YOUR WEAPONS OUT AND COME OUTTA THERE!
HEY!  ZAT THE POLICE!  I'M AN INNOCENT VICTIM IN HERE!  I WAS ATTACKED BY A COKED-UP WHORE AND A CRAZY DENTIST!
Wait here.  I'm going to try that phone number.  Let's hope it's nothing!
James!  James!  It's okay.  We're insane!  We're crazy!
It's a Carpet Cleaning Company...
A Carpet Cleaning Company?
 No superiors!  No scientists.  No people from the future.  It's just a Carpet Cleaning Company.  They have voice mail -- you leave a message telling them when you want your carpet cleaned.
You... you left them a message?
 I couldn't resist.  I was so relieved. Wait'll they hear this nutty woman telling them...they better watch out for the Army of the Twelve Monkeys...
"The Army of the Twelve Monkeys -- they're the ones who are going to do it.  I can't do anything more.  The police are watching me."
You... you couldn't have heard me.
They got your message, Kathryn.  They played it for me.  It was a bad recording...distorted.  I didn't recognize your voice.
Come on.
And this.  Anything else?
I guess that's it.
Shall I put this on your account, Ma'am?
 No -- I'll pay cash.
What floor are the wigs on, please?
So then he goes into this incredible riff about how his shrink, like, replicated his brain while he was in the nut house. Turned it into a computer.
And Fale believed it?
Oh, you know Fale!  He's like, "If you guys get nailed -- and I'm sure you will -- I never saw you before in nay life!"
Let's do it!
Okay, that's Stage One.  In Stage Two, Monkey Four is over here...
What's the harm in opening the bag? His eyes are taped.
Yeah, it's cruel leaving him like that.
Ah, but cruelty is his specialty.
So why should we be like him?
Want the full effect?
Jeffrey?  I know it's you, Jeffrey.  I recognize your voice.
JEFFREY???  ... Very well.  You're out of your mind, Jeffrey.  I know all about your insane plan.  That woman -- your psychiatrist -- she told me.
I didn't believe her -- it seemed too crazy even for you.  But, just in case, I took steps to make sure you couldn't do it.  I took myself out of the loop!  I don't have the code any more.  I don't have access to the virus.  So, go ahead -- torture me, but you can't extract anything of use to yourself.
What...virus?
 She knew about it, Jeffrey.  She knew you were going to try this.
What virus are we talking about, Dad?
You're insane, Jeffrey.
You "develop" viruses and you're calling me insane?  Typical.  What does this virus attack?  Don't tell me, you sick fuck, it doesn't matter.  Have I ever "developed" a virus?  Do I put helpless animals in cages and measure their reactions to electrical stimuli? Do I inject radioactive substances into living creatures and examine their bowel movements?  Wow!  And I'm crazy!
Please tell me, Jeffrey, what exactly are you going to do?  I don't have to tell you I'm afraid.
THIS IS A FUCKING EXPERIMENT!  YOU'RE OUR HELPLESS LITTLE TEST ANIMAL, DADDY. GOT THAT?  NOW -- WHAT FUCKING VIRUS HAVE YOU COME UP WITH, YOU DEMENTED FUCKING MANIAC?
Here's a cross section of one of the old trees that's been cut down.
Somewhere in here I was born.  And here -- I die.  There's only a moment for you.  You don't notice.
Here, let me help you.
I think I've seen this movie before. When I was a kid.  It was on TV.
 Shh -- don't talk.  Hold still.
 I have seen it, but I don't remember this part.  Funny, it's like what's happening to us, like the past.  The movie never changes -- it can't change -- but everytime you see it, it seems to be different because you're different -- you notice different things.
If we can't change anything...because it's already happened, then we ought to at least smell the flowers.
Flowers!  What flowers?
 It's an expression.  Here...
Why are we doing this?
So we can stick our heads out the window and feel the wind and listen to the music.  So we can appreciate what we have while we have it.  Forgive me, psychiatrists don't cry.
But maybe I'm wrong.  Maybe you're wrong.  Maybe we're both crazy.
In a few weeks, it will have started or it won't.  If there are still baseball games and traffic jams, armed robberies and boring TV shows -- we'll be so happy, we'll be glad to turn ourselves in to the police.
SHHHHHHH
 Where can we hide for a few weeks?
You said you'd never seen the ocean...
What are you doing to me?  Where are we?  Jeffrey, please...
For God's sake, put the tape back on his mouth!
Forget the tape.  The monkey's louder than he is.  You gonna tape the monkey's mouth?
Kathryn?!
We're booked on a 9:30 flight to Key West.
You were in my dream just now.  I didn't recognize you.
Well, you look pretty different, too.
I mean in my dream -- I didn't realize it was you.  Then...I woke up and I...I thought you were gone.
 I remember you...like this.  I feel I've known you before.  I feel I've always known you.
What time's your flight, friends?
Nine thirty
Might be tight.
 Tight?  My watch says 7:30.
On your normal mornin', okay, plenty a time, but today, gotta take inta account your Army-of-the-Twelve-Monkeys factor.
What?  What did you say?
Twelve Monkeys, honey.  Guess you folks didn't turn on your radio this morning.
Bunch a weirdoes let all the animals outta the zoo last night.  Then they locked up this big shot scientist in one of the cages. Scientist's own kid was one a the ones did it!
Now they got animals all over the place.  Buncha zebras shut down the thruway 'bout an hour ago and some kinda thing called an "e-mu" it's got traffic blocked for miles over on 22.
That's what they were up to!  Freeing animals!
On the walls -- they meant the animals when they said, "We did it."
You can hear it on the radio all the stations...
In the meantime, numerous animal rights activists have joined the chorus condemning what they're calling the "loose canon" activities of Jeffrey Mason and his Army of the Twelve Monkeys. RIGHTS ACTIVIST/RADIO Can these fools seriously believe that releasing a captive animal into an urban environment is being compassionate to the animal?  It's mindlessly cruel, almost as indefensible as holding the animal in captivity in the first place.
Maybe it's going to be okay.
Tell your people if they spot either one of them, not to try and apprehend then.  They should notify us and...
-- Flight 531 for Chicago is now ready for boarding at Gate Seventeen.
I know this place! ... This is my dream.
Airports all look the same.  Maybe it's...  James!  Your moustache!  It's slipping.
It's not just my dream.  I was actually here!  I remember now.  My parents brought me to meet my uncle.  About a week or two before...before...before everybody started dying.
They may be looking for us, James.  Use this.  You can fix it in the Men's Room.
 I was here...as a kid.  I think you were here, too.  But you...looked just like you look now.
 James, if we're identified, they're going to send us someplace...but not to Key West!
 Right!  You're right.  I have to fix this.
 I'll get the tickets and meet you... in the Gift Shop.
Judy Simmons.  I have reservations for Key West.
Listen, I don't know whether you're there or not.  Maybe you just clean carpets.  If you do, you're lucky -- you're gonna live a long, happy life. But if you other guys exist and you're picking this up -- forget about the Army of The Twelve Monkeys -- they didn't do it.  It was a mistake' Someone else did it.  The Army of The Twelve Monkeys are just dumb kids playing revolutionaries.  It was someone else!
I've done my job.  I did what you wanted. Good luck.  I'm not coming back!
Don't see a lot of this... cash.
It's...a long story.
 They'll begin boarding in about twenty minutes.  Have a nice flight, Mrs. Simmons.
Got yourself a prob, Bob?
Leave me alone!  I made a report.  I didn't have to do that.
Point of fact -- you don't belong here. It's not permitted to let you stay.
This is the present.  This is not the past. This is not the future.  This is right now!
I'm staying here! You got that?  You can't stop me!
 Anything you say, chief.  It's none of my business.
Woooo-eeee.  San Francisco, New Orleans, Rio de Janeiro, Rome, Kinshasa, Karachi, Bangkok, Peking! That's some trip you're taking, sir, All in one week!
Business.
 Have a good one, sir.
You gotta be crazy, man!
Jo...Jose????
Pulling out the tooth, man, that was nuts!  Here, take this.
What?  What for?  Are you crazy?
Me?  Are you kiddin?  You're the one! You were a hero, man.  They gave you a pardon!  And whadda you do?  You come back and fuck with your teeth!  Wow!
How did you find me?
The phone call, man.  The phone call.
The call I just made?  Five minutes ago?
Hey, five minutes ago, thirty years ago! Yes, that phone call.  I been in training for this a couple a months now -- ever since I got back from that... "weird" war we were in.  You remember that?  Here, take it, man!  You could still be a hero if you'd cooperate!
Isn't it obvious that "Chicken Little" represents the sane vision and that Homo Sapiens' motto, "Let's go shopping!" is the cry of the true lunatic?
Oh, my God!
-- flight 764 for San Francisco is now ready for boarding at Gate 36.
Coma on, Cole, don't be an asshole.  Look, I got orders, man!  You know what I'm sposed to do if you don't go along? I'm sposed to shoot the lady!  You got that?  They said, "If Cole don't obey this time, Garcia, you gotta shoot his girlfriend!"
I got no choice, man.  These are my orders.  Just take it, okay?
This part isn't about the virus, is it?
Hey, man...
It's about obeying, about doing what you're told.
They gave you a pardon, man.  Whatdaya want?
Who am I supposed to shoot?
James!  Thank God!  I thought you'd disappeared.  Listen, I think I know who it is!  I saw him!  It's Dr. Mason's assistant.  An apocalypse nut!  The next flight to San Francisco leaves from Gate 38. If he's there, it has to be him.
I love you, Kathryn.  Remember that.
Maybe we can stop him.  Maybe we can actually do something.
Excuse me, sir.  Would you mind letting me have a look at the contents of your bag?
Me?  Oh, yes, of course.  My samples. I have the appropriate papers.
Oh, God, we don't have time for this.
Biological samples.  I have the paperwork right here.
I'm going to have to ask you to open this, sir.
Open it?  Of course.
Here!  You see?  Biological!  Check the papers -- it's all proper.  I have a permit.
It's empty!
Well, yes, to be sure, it looks empty! But I assure you, it's not.
Please listen to me -- this is very urgent!
We're all in a hurry, lady.  What's so special about you?
You see!  Also invisible to the naked eye.
It doesn't even have an odor.
That's not necessary, sir.  Here you go.  Thanks for your cooperation.  Have a good flight.
Get your hands off her!
I said, get your hands off her.  She's not a criminal.  She's a doctor...a psychiatrist.
THERE HE IS!  HE'S CARRYING A DEADLY VIRUS!  STOP HIM!
PLEASE, SOMEBODY -- STOP HIM!
 Police Officers.  Would you step over here, please.
STOP OR I'LL SHOOT!
WATCH IT!
N0OOOOO0O!!!!!!
My God!  They shot that man!
Come along, son, this is no place for us.
Hurry up, son.
Pretend it was just a bad dream, Jimmy.
It's obscene, all the violence, all the lunacy.  Shootings even at airports now. You might say...we're the next endangered species...human beings!
I think you're right. sir.  I think you've hit the nail on the head.
Jones is my name.  I'm in insurance.
