Are we shooting people, or what?
Are we shooting?
That's what I'm asking you.
What's the answer?
I don't know the answer. That's what I'm trying to find out.
It looks like a grain of sand, but I don't know how I'm gonna get it out--
That guy just shot a towel head.
Bullshit.
 Congratulations, you got yourself a rag head, my man.
Dag.
"Gettin' bugged drivin' up and down the same old strip, gotta find a new place where the kids are hip, I get around --"
I didn't think I'd see anyone get shot over here.
It looked like the guy's head blew three feet into the air --
Bullshit, that's not what happened.
I said it looked like that happened, but then we got here and he was still breathing.
Oh, my God, it's just like 'Predator,' where the guy, the black guy --
Carl Weathers. His arm gets shot off.
And when it hits the ground, his hand keeps on firing.
Take my picture.
Do you still want to sell pictures?
 For twenty.
Twenty dollars, man, what's the meaning of life?
You're lucky you got to see anybody shot in this war.
War's been over five days, Jim, ain't gonna be much more of this.
Bobby, take my picture.
If he shot the guy, it's up to him.
It's not like he shot a fucking deer. It's the enemy.
Troy's enemy, yours for twenty.
Accept no substitute, this is the real thing, oh, Jesus [winces] --
What's wrong?
I got a really bad headache all of a sudden--
No free pictures, motherfucker.
Spirits are high and the music is boisterous as these young troops celebrate -- Shit. Let me try that again.
Spirits are high and the music is fucking motherfucking sand in my eye --
Is that what you got from this experience? A goddamn watch?
Ees a great fucking watch.
There's 700 million in gold out there and you're fucking around with a watch?
Bon dieu de merde, that's a lot of gold, man.
One bunker of gold and we retire from this horseshit, Hashy--
Gates.
Just a second. The problem, Hash, is how do you find it?
Like one sowsan bunker out sair --
Maybe two sowsan bunker out sair, Hash, how do you find Saddam's bullion?
Could I have some help over here, for Chrissakes?
My goodness, Bill, what seems to be the problem?
I'm trying to do a story here and the fucking sand is blowing in my face --
You want me to stop the sand? I can't do anything about that.
No, you're too busy talking about the fucking gold, which by the way makes a great story if you'd get me a goddamn lead on it --
I think the Saddam story goes more for the jugular, journalistically speaking, I mean, he's still here beating the shit out of his country.
Would you just be my guide and not my fucking producer? You're my guide.
OK, go do your celebration story, Bill.
We're number one.
Waaaa-hooooo--
You're heroes.
We're heroes.
Give war a chance.
You've exorcised the ghosts of Vietnam with a clear moral imperative --
Is that what we did?
Where the hell are you going?
I'll be right back.
I don't want you helping other reporters, goddamn it.
We kicked ass.
We didn't get rid of fucking Saddam --
Which totally sucks a big dick.
Those people are getting reemed --
Bullshit, we saved Kuwait, man.
Who's getting reemed? The Shiites?
I don't know who they are, man --
We got big firepower but we ain't saving them --
Fuck that, we liberated Kuwait.
Weehaaaaaaa.
'If tomorrow all the things were gone that I worked for all my life and I had to start again with just my children and my wife--'
'I'd thank my lucky stars to --
'--be livin' here today because the flag still stands for freedom and they can't take that awayyyyy --'
 And I'm proud I to be an American, where at least I know I'm free. And I won't forget the men who died, who gave that right to me. And I'd gladly stand up; next to you and defend her still today. Cause there ain't no doubt I love this land, God bless the U S A --
Rahhhhhhhhhhhhhh.
Rahhhhhhhhh.
Rahhhhhhhhhhhhh.
Hasnala shi aluno quibaan --
It's cool, no one's gonna hurt you --
Did you rape and torture anybody in Kuwait, Abdul?
You're making them all hysterical.
Take your fucking rags off, take this off. No comprende English, motherfucker?
What is your fucking problem, Conrad?
I'm trying to git him to obey the spirit of things but he won't take his rags off.
 Sir? We need you to disrobe like all the other towel heads, OK?
Whoa, it's a freaky thing, Troy.
There's a document in that guy's ass, Conrad.
That's the freaky thing.
Do you think he ate it?
It wouldn't come out perfect like that if he ate it.
Go get it, Private.
Hasa man timal!
Open it up.
You only gave me one glove.
I'm sorry I don't have another, but you gotta open it up. That's how the chain of command works.
What the hell is that?
Important enough to squeeze your cheeks for.
You are a trained warrior, trained warrior, trained warrior, Jesus Christ, Colonel!
 What's Bill got?
Just the celebration story.
That's it?
That's it --
How about you? Did you find anything?
It could be another bullshit lead but I need you to help me find a guy who might have something on the gold --
Who's the guy?
Somebody Barlow, maybe in Company B--
Barlow.
Got a map out of a prisoner's head.
Out of a prisoner's head?
Or his ear, or his ass, or his dick, and they got like a fifty page full-color mini atlas of Saddam's bunkers --
Out of a guy's dick?
This is not the way we service the media, Major. Stop her --
You are in violation of code 37D, grinding Major Gates.
You guys have no manners whatsoever --
I told you he was with her --
We're handling this, OK?
I wanted help with the gold story, and he took off on me--
That's a lot of bullshit.
I give you a prestige job in the media war of the century and the guy feels neglected.
I'm helping him plenty with his big celebration feature -- Where did you get this fucking star?
They made me a general, pal.
For what? I don't even know what we did over here, but Schwartzkopf gets a book deal, you get a star, Powell gets to be fucking president--
Are you high? This is a huge win for us.
Running the press pool's a real big win for me.
You want us to kill more Americans to occupy Iraq?
I'm just saying it's ironic, that's all.
What the fuck is ironic?
We got the biggest army in the world here but Iraq still has the d-bag dictator in power, but that's how the world works I guess.
Just take care of Smithson and maybe he'll hook you up to consult on movies.
It's either that or be a security guard when you retire.
Fuck you, Ron.
I'm a general now, you can't say fuck you to me.
OK, sir, but there's another thing I'd like to say, if you don't mind.
Go right ahead, Colonel.
Fuuuuuck yooouuuu, Ronnnnn.
You've washed your hands like a thousand times, Conrad.
Lord knows what vermin live in the butt of a dune koon.
Why do you let this cracker follow you around?
He's a good kid.
He's a wall-eyed cracker.
He's got no high school, man, he's from a group home in Jackson --
I don't give a shit if he's from Johannesburg. I don't want to hear dune koon or sand nigger from him or anybody.
Captain uses those terms.
The point is, Conrad, 'towel head' and 'camel jockey' are perfectly good substitutes.
Exactly.
I'm sorry, man, it's a little confusing is all.
What can I do for your headache?
Got any Vicadan?
All gone. How about Caffergot?
Excellent. Let's translate my Iraqi ass map.
Van Meter's at the big pow wow?
We're cool for at least three hours, but keep Walter on the door.
Would you take those fucking things off?
I never got to use night vision.
They don't work during the day and stand outside the tent.
These are definitely Saddam's bunkers near Karbala.
What's inside?
According to Intelligence -- Picasso, Armani, Rolex, Mercedes, Sony you name it --  Kuwait was Muslim Beverly Hills and Saddam sacked it.
Man, get an awesome stereo system with like ten BOS speakers  --
Silver Lexus convertible.
Lexus doesn't make a convertible.
Yes, they do.
Infiniti has one coming.
You're wrong.
You can't get a car home from here anyway.
If I get enough Rolexes I could buy one when I got home.
One gold Rolex, I get a very fine split level outside Jackson.
My one problem, see, is the risk here --
What risk? We already did the risk. I signed up last year to bank some computer training--
Tell me about it.
Next thing I know I'm sitting here waiting to get hit by a Scud. I put my life on the line for what purpose I'm not sure, and now the good Lord puts this map in my path --
He could put a land mine in your path if we try to find this place --
You're safe with me.
Cuz you have a galactic plutonium forcefield.
I don't talk about it. But I do have a ring of Jesus fire.
You have a ring of Jesus fire.
I was fire baptized.
I was baptized in water.
I'm fire baptized.
I don't even know what water baptism means.
For those who understand, no explanation is necessary; for those who don't, no explanation will suffice. You can benefit from my Jesus ring if you do right by me, you got that?
OK.
This tent is restricted --
Get the fuck out of my way.
May day, may day --
Good afternoon.
Would this be the proctology tent?
Yes, sir, I mean, no, sir.
Then maybe it's the urology tent.
Captain's at a staff meeting.
That's OK, I'm not looking for a proctologist or a urologist I'm looking for Sargeant Barlow.
You're on the path to truth when you smell shit, isn't that what they say?
I don't recognize you, sir. Are you in this division?
He's not in this division. He's Special Forces.
He's the guy taking Bill Smithson around.
And you would be the Three Wise Men, right, Mappy, Slappy, and Pappy --
That leaves Cappy outside.
Damn. Freeze. Do not pass. Hold it, freeze. Stop. Freeze.
His name is Walter.
Did you good soldiers present this map to Captain Van Meter?
Not yet.
Then I'll take it to him.
We'll take it to him. Sir.
It won't do either of us any good then, will it?
He's our commander, sir. We'd have to tell him you took it.
It could be nothing but a sandy love letter from one Eye-raqi to another --
It's a series of bunkers near Karbala.
Maybe.
Not maybe, definitely. Recon photos match the map.
May I look at the goddamn map?
Dag.
That's what makes Rangers badass, we get the best flashlights.
Still looks like a series of three bunkers in three villages. A bit farther to the west.
Seventy-five klicks north.
More like 65.
Much closer to Karbala.
Leave at dawn, back by lunch, not a big deal. Of course --
-- there could be nothing inside but starving Arabs and stolen watches, but I think it's worth checking out, even if I have to do it with clueless reservists like you.
I mean, I could take the map, but you could talk, it starts to become a pain in the ass for me, so we'll do the gold together.
What gold?
You don't even know what's inside these bunkers, do you?
Rolexes.
Rolexes are swell, but I'm talking about Kuwaiti bullion.
You mean the little cubes you put in hot water for soup?
No. Not the little cubes you put in hot water for soup.
Gold bricks.
5 kilos each, $50,000 in today's market.
For one gold brick?
I'm sure Mr. Hussein has divided his bricks. into many different hiding places, but just one hiding place should be easy to take, and that would be enough to get us out of our day jobs. Unless the three kings are in love with their day jobs.
I don't really have a day job.
What about the risk of taking a Humvee and all that --
We do this shit all the time.
What else did you do, sir?
In Panama we went sailing in Noriega's boats.
Wow.
In Vietnam, we got a big gold Buddha, which we unfortunately dropped in a swamp by accident.
What about Iraqi soldiers?
Let's see. They had the shit bombed out them for two months, they're deserting all over the place, and they've completely surrendered to us. That's a beaten army in every sense of the word.
You are now under my command, salute --
What's the guy's name outside?
Walter.
Cappy.
You will take Bill Smithson on a special mission to find the gold story, but it will be a meaningless ride that lasts all morning and takes him nowhere near Karbala, is that clear?
How am I gonna get out of the company?
Your captain will be detained by a friend of mine.
Is it true you got to take an enemy ear to be Special Forces?
No, but if you talk to anybody about this, I'll kill you.
Very dashing.
Would you ever stand like that?
You'll get used to it. First question: did you dream as a boy you'd be commanding an infantry company in a desert war?
Pull.
Pull.
Pull.
I gave you a better arc, Doc.
What are you talking about?
I threw the ball in a higher arc that was easier for you to hit.
Bullshit.
Blacks make better receivers than quarterbacks.
Stop speaking right now, Conrad.
Warren Moon is an excellent quarterback.
The Oilers have gone nowhere behind Warren Moon.
Randall Cunningham.
Don't get down in the mud with him, Doc.
The Eagles will never get to the Superbowl with him.
Doug Williams took the Redskins to the Superbowl and won, OK?
We can all agree there are many excellent black quarterbacks.
Hit it, you sorry-assed cracker --
This gun's too heavy to shoot one-handed like a movie star --
Shut the fuck up.
When we pull up to the bunker, the approach is something called violence of action, which is standard in special operations. It means your movement is so fast and decisive that the guards are frozen and we haven't fired a single shot.
Shit.
We dropped a lot of bombs out here and we buried some guys alive --
What do you mean?
Bradleys with big plows cut through the berms and covered the trenches --
They had the option to surrender, but they chose to die for their country.
Let's rehearse.
We'll say the cow is the primary guard outside the bunker. We pull up fast, and stop short.
Got it.
And -- Go.
Who's hurt?
It's all cow, I think.
Yeah, it's all cow.
They said this was swept for mines.
Mines are forever, Doc. They never get all of 'em.
 'If you could, help me Rhonda, help help me Rhonda --'
Did you guys see any action at all?
Only night bombing on CNN, except for Troy's supercool shooting that guy in the neck--
Is sepsis cool?
What's sepsis?
Infection of the blood.
As in septic tank, because that's what happens when a bullet hits you. The lead tears in there --
Makes a cavity of dead tissue that closes down in a convulsive motion typical of all gunshot wounds. The cavity fills up with bile and bacteria and you're fucked.
But other than a wound that blinds, paralyzes, or castrates, the worst wound I've ever seen is something called tension pneumo thorax --
I heard something about that --
Tension pneumo what?
A bullet, or a blade doesn't kill you, but makes a little hole in the lung, so every time you breathe, a little air leaks into the chest cavity, which starts to fill up like a balloon. And that balloon starts to push your organs to the side, crushing your lung, your liver, your heart. Your own breathing kills you, one breath at a time -- kinda like a job you can't stand or a bad lie you once told.
That's not fatal, they can stop it.
If you know how to make another little hole in the chest to let the air out, just like you would with an overinflated tire.
Can we play the Beach Boys when we go in?
The goddamn Beach Boys.
I'm not ashamed of liking the Beach Boys. It calms me down. Better than Mozart.
Bach.
Where's the bunker?
It should be right --
There.
No -- there.
We are the Army of the United States of America. We are here to protect you. Remain calm.
Orders from President Bush, step aside.
No milk. Baby milk.
Do not panic.  Step outside --
 We are here for your protection and safety.
Ya'll be cool now, this is the U.S. Marines in charge here.
Shit.
Freeze.
I am love United States of Freedom. I am hate Saddam.
Ya -- ya -- ha --
Let him go.
No problem, my friend.
You look for the chemical weapon?
No. We look for the gold.
Where's the gold?
They move the gold.
Kill him.
Not yet.
Kill him now.
Where?
 This bunker. I'll take you.
Ma-Maa.
Move. Out of the way.
Hos-pital.
America help.
Give them MRE's.
This is boring, I already did this damn story, goddamn it, where the hell is the gold?
How about rare pelican migration out by the marshes?
What?
These brave pelicans are migrating in spite of massive pollution --
Fuck that. Stop the bike.
I'm all right, I'm cool.
What is the art of war, because it is not for killing people, it's a stratagem to give life to many by killing the evil perpetrated by a few -- I am burning up in this goddamn suit --
Discriminating use of violence as a last resort, and even then, carefully, surgically, that's what I learned, that's what I'm good at. But now they underestimate all this, bomb the same towns for six weeks  and still leave the scumbag dictator to starve and butcher his own people.
 I don't even know what happened back there. Civilians were spitting on their own soldiers; the soldiers were shooting the civilians and ignoring us --
They already surrendered to us. Now they're after Shiites.
What exactly is a Shiite?
They make up the ethnic majority but they don't have any power. When Bush pulled us out, he told them to start a civil war to bring Saddam down, and now they're getting wasted.
 The civil war? How could it be the civil war?
It's a war inside the same country, Conrad. That's a civil war.
Put these on, we are now U.S. Marines.
I can't do this, OK? Because I've got a family and if I shit in a bag the rest of my life cuz I got shot after the war's already over that would be pretty fucking stupid, wouldn't it?
What is the most important thing in life?
What the fuck are you talking about?
What is it?
Did you hear anything I said.
Respect is the most important.
Too dependent on other people.
Money.
Comes and goes, man.
What is this bullshit?
What's the most important thing?
Necessity. That's what dictates what will happen at any given time in life. Necessity says we don't spend American lives taking out Saddam,  which leaves Saddam the necessity of taking out the Shiites so he can stay in power, which leaves us to take the gold.
We could've been shot.
Did you notice they didn't touch us?  We decimated their entire country. They're scared shitless of us. [looks at his watch] There's time to try another bunker. I say we go.
Let's do it.
Rock and roll.
OK. And I'll be wearing fashionable kevlar. As a necessity.
 I'm at some goddamn marsh, all we've seen are Russian cranes.
Pelicans.
 I think the Saddam story goes more for the jugular, journalistically speaking, Al. Let's grow some balls and do the Shiite uprising, for Christ's sake.
We're going north to do the Shiites.
I thought the gold was the hot spot.
Karbala's the new hotspot, and I'm driving.
Military regulations, you cannot drive.
Get off the vehicle, sir.
Don't make me shoot you, sir.
Doug?
What the fuck are you doing?
Do you have authorization?
No.
Who gave you this?
Archie Gates gave you this? Jesus Christ, Doug, come with me.
No, you don't get to do the interview.
Faster.
 United States Marine Corps. Put your weapons down.
Drop your weapon.
Put it down.
Don't make me smoke your ass, Abdul.
Freeze.
By order of the cease-fire signed in Safwan, March 3, the United States Marines hereby confiscate all material stolen by Iraq from the Emirate of Kuwait --
Down.
Isnam panan fatwa aznir --
Never hit anyone with your pistol, Doc.
Sorry about that.
For wife.
I've been divorced three times.
No, newest and best has better noise reduction.
Less distortion. Get down on the floor, OK?
This is bad music, understand? It's bad for you.
Hey --
 Where's the gold, Captain? Tell us so we don't have to kill you.
There's another room over here.
I am just do my job, buddy.
These Shiite. Iraq problem. United States is out now.
We take them outside, so it don't bother you, OK, sir? Kata fanam.
Take us to the basement.
Don't start this shit again.
I know ya'll Shiite gettin' yer asses whipped --  Hey, what the hell is going on here?
Git on the fucking ground, Arab.
Prisoner stay. Gabar matan.
What the fuck are you talking about?
Kinam vanir! Vanir!
Goddamn it everybody calm down.
It's my ass, donkey dick, Saddam will shoot me dead.
Saddam worries more about the Shiite than the gold.
 This is the United States Military.
It's Saddam's gold.
Shut up, he signed the treaty.
Listen to me: we leave you alone to kill your Shiites, but everything you took from Kuwait, that belongs to us now, understand?
Put it back.
Why?
Stick to the plan. The plan is for gold.
Is this five kilos?
Yeah, that's five kilos.
Five, six, seven, eight, there's sixty bricks in this suitcase.
Times 50K each --
Three million dollars.
Ten suitcases; sixty bricks each. That's thirty million dollars.
I'm gonna get a fleet of Lexus convertibles in different colors.
I told you Lexus doesn't make a convertible.
I'll bet you a Lexus they do.
OK, you're on for a Lexus, but it won't be a convertible.
Shit.
They didn't get it here in these bags.
The tensilary strength goes to 200 pounds.
The what?
Tensilary strength, it's what the suitcase can hold.
Why would you know that?
He works at an airport.
60 bars, 13 pounds each is like -- 800 pounds. The smaller Vuittons handle 65.
You got any more luggage here?
It's crazy to take it all, we're not prepared for it. It's crazy not to take it all, how can we leave it?
What's the shipping plan?
I told you that's handled.
How is it handled? You have to tell us now.
Yeah, tell us now.
 I've got a friend, he's in French Special Forces. He's gonna put it in barrels filled with oil and bury it. In a few weeks, he'll drive it to Yanbu --
Where's Yanbu?
It's a port in Saudi.
Where another friend will ship it on a Turkish boat up the Red Sea to Perpignan, where a French boat will take it to Baltimore --
I don't know about getting them to Baltimore, but these hat boxes ain't gonna fit in the Humvee.
We need a trailer.
OK, I'll call U-Haul in Karbala to see what they have on the lot today.
See what you can get, Barlow.
Conrad, we need a trailer --
Did you get it? Troy, did you get it?
Yeah, we got it.
Is it a lot?
Yeah, it's a lot.
 'Little deuce coupe with a fiat head mill, she'll walk a Thunderbird like it's standin' still --'
'She'll do a hundred and forty with the top end floored --'
'She's my little deuce coupe --'
You take the Kuwaiti gold, yes?
We take the Kuwaiti gold. Yes.
Saddam cannot keep.
No, Saddam cannot keep.
Saddam have too many problem today.
He certainly does.
You need help to load?
We can do it ourselves.
Hazal jarat finan.
These man help you.
You go away fast from this bullshit.
Let's load up and get out of here.
Lay that one flat; OK, sideways --
This isn't gonna work.
Sure it is --
You need a truck.
We'll rig two carts.
Let's take the truck.
We're not taking their truck.
Why not?
We cooperate with peace accord. Please take truck.
Let's take the truck.
Nazaran yafit haisul.
This has to stop.
You get your ass kick in a war, it feel good to be strong again.
What did you say?
You go now, please.
I don't think so. I'm sure you know about the Geneva Convention, right?
Geneva convention? You bomb my house, man.
That Shiite man is leader of uprising. He kill my man.
Archie, let's stick to the plan, sir. The plan is for gold, right?
We can help them first, then be on our way.
No, we can't. It's not what we're here for.
How much?
What?
How much gold do you want to let these people come with us?
Cannot do.
What do you mean, cannot do? I'm offering you a lot of money.
Cannot let Shiite go --
Saddam kill us.
Saddam kill to me if we let them go, OK? Now you go.
Cover me.
Jesus Christ, we can't save everybody.
Are you listening? I said cover me.
No unnecessary shots, Conrad, is that clear?
Yes, sir.
Because we know what bullets do to vital organs, don't we?
Make infected pockets filled with bile, sir.
That's right, that's what they do.
 U.S.A. is out of Shiite war.
No shooting.
What's happening?
Accident. Stay cool.
No.
Cover these three.
Doc.
Down.
Kazal stan hamir in fatar.
Put the Shiites in the Humvee.
There's no room.
Make room.
What the fuck happened to necessity?
It just changed.
Not for me.
Obey the fucking order, Barlow.
This is fucked up.
What if that was you?
What if this was you not wearing Kevlar?
Great, a fucking tank. That should send us on our way.
Grenade launcher, sir.
No. Let's get out of here.
It's about fucking time.
Hazal mafan.
We were home free, you stupid son of a bitch.
What's the tank doing?
Lining us up --
Incoming.
Stay on the road.
I don't wanna get hit.
Gas.
Where's my mask?
Mine.
Cover your face, Conrad. Cover your mouth, man.
Hey. Stop.
Goddamn it.
Don't do it, this isn't sarin. We'd be dead by now.
Is it mustard?
It's C.S.
What's that?
Tear gas times ten, but it's not lethal. Where's Barlow?
I don't know.
Does anybody see Barlow?
I can't even see the truck.
Look out.
Don't move.
What's going on?
Get in the tunnel.
Troy.
You're gonna die.
Barlow.
We have to go back. We can't leave him there.
We have to wait until it clears.
You made the choice and we lost Troy --
I had no choice.
You had a choice.
I had no fucking choice.
I can't walk away from a crime like that and take the gold and live my life like nothing happened, and if you can, then I hope you die right now.
What about Troy? What choice does he have now?
Can we shoot him?
He's proof they broke the cease- fire.
They're taking the tank.
Start shooting, Paco.
I don't like this, we gotta go--
Hey.
Let me handle this.
Get dress.
OK.
Get dress.
I said OK.
Jalam nafad.
 Um. Do you speak English?
 Yes.
 Can you -- I need --
What number, please.
Operation Desert Storm.
I'm sorry?
The big army in the desert, come on, it's an emergency.
I don't have that number.
Maybe you could -- hello?
Fuck.
Come on, come on, come on.
 Hello?
Honey, it's me.
Troy?
It's me, honey.
My God, the baby's crying.
I can hear her.
That's our little Krystal.
How's she doing?
She hasn't been sleeping good, and Mamma had to go back to work, so I'm real, real tired, baby.
I wish I was there to help, gooney- bird.
Oh, gooney-bird, when are you coming home?
I'm working on that right now, baby.
I saw an ad for a computer job. You want me to call and set up an interview for my war hero?
Listen, honey --
What date are you coming home?
They haven't given us an exact date yet. Listen --
I'm henpecking you.
No, you're not.
I'm lonely and tired and most of all, I miss you.
I miss you, too.
What was that?
The wall just exploded.
I thought the war was over, honey.
It is and it isn't, babe. Can you do me a favor and call the C.O. on base?
You want me to call the C.O.?
Tell him I'm stuck in a bunker near 223 north outside Karbala --
What do you mean 'stuck'? I thought the war was over.
I'm gonna be fine, honey, I don't want you to worry, I tried to do something for the family,  and I want you to know --
Know what?
That I love you.
What's happening, Troy?
Tell Krystal --
Troy?
Tell Krystal I'm a rich man and if things work out she'll be taken care of no matter what --
What are you talking about?
Gotta go, gooney-bird, I love you--
Troy?
Spirits are high and the music is soaring as these young troops celebrate --
I'm being held captive by Iraqi troops in the gritty city of Karbala, where Shiite --
You said gritty city again.
OK, we'll go again.
What about Private Wogoman, Bill?
Let's lay a few of these down first. In three, two, and, I'm being held captive in a gritty suburb of Karbala, where Shiite fundamentalists are rising up --
You better not let that fucking reporter see you doing this.
Hey, that's the CNN guy.
Wow. He's much shorter in person.
Get them out of here now.
At least let me keep the tape.
Could I have my helmet, please?
Helmet. On my head.
Who's missing?
You don't know where one of your own fucking aides is?
Check all the radio transmissions.
I'm not breaking your balls, Doug, I want to find these guys.
 What is your rank, bro?
Master sargeant.
Your company?
B Company, infantry, United States Army.
My main man. Tell me something, OK? What is problem with Michael Jackson?
What do you mean?
The King of Pop. 'I'm bad, I'm bad, you know it --'
Yeah, Michael Jackson.
He is fahking the small boys, man.
What are you talking about?
He come to Egypt with the small boys. I see picture in newspaper, always he is with the small boys in the hotel window. Hello with the white glove. I am King of Pop in my hotel with the small boys. No girls. Just the boys.
He likes kids.
Yeah, he like to fahk them up the ass.
Bullshit.
You are the blind bullshit, my main man.  It is so obvious he like the small boy so he all the time travel with them.
Fine.
And if it really true? You say --
I say it's sick.
That's because you got a sick country, bro, you got no respect for the children. That's why you bomb them over here, right?
I don't think so.
Michael Jackson is Pop King of sick fahking country.
Wrong.
Bullshit wrong, dude. A black man make the skin white and the hair straight. You know why?
No.
Your sick fahking country make the black man hate hisself, just like you hate the Arab and the children you bomb.
I don't hate children.
Do they care, buddy?
Does who care?
Do your army care about the Shiite children? Do they come to help?
No, they're not coming.
 That seemed like too much volts. You got to build it up slow.
Just figure it out.
Are they coming to help the Shiite?
No.
Tell the truth, dudesky. Save us the big bummer.
Does it hurt?
I ask you question, bro.
Yes, it hurts.
You bomb my family. Do you know that?
You blow up my home. The whole street. My wife is crush by big fahking block of concrete. She lose her legs, bro, and she got nice legs, too. Those legs cut off now.
 That's horrible.
What?
 I said, that's horrible.
Oh, my God, buddy. I didn't even told you the horrible part yet.
My son was kill in his bed. Did you heard that, dude?
Yes.
He is one years old. He is asleeping with his toy doll when. the bomb come. You see that guy over there?  He lose his daughter same way: big USA bomb.
I have a daughter.
Very nice for you, bro. She is safe in Ohio without the bombs and concrete and all this shit--
How old is she?
Ten days old.
What's her name?
Krystal.
What makes you decide to tell me about Krystal, my main man?
Because we're both fathers.
I'm not a father no more, dude, remember? My son is dead now.
I'm OK. I'm cool. I'm a survivor.
Is that guy dead? Where you gonna put him?
A shrine.
What kind of shrine ya'll got?
Shrine that wash 700 year of sin.
Hey, that's a pretty good shrine, right, Doc?
I'm sorry I hit you, man. I was scared for Troy, I don't want nothing to happen to him, he's my friend. Doc? Come on, man, I know you was comin' to help me --
Maybe we got kicked out of the ring of Jesus fire, on account of stealing.
That's not how it works.
How does it work?
I take care of what Jesus puts in front of me. That's what we did with the gold.
What about now?
I'm gonna see.
How you doing, Conrad?
I'm good to go, chief.
Let's check the suitcases.
We're missing 28.
That leaves 92 suitcases, five bars each --
23 million dollars. Not bad for a disaster, provided we can find Barlow, get back before dark and not get busted.
It was my choice today. So you can head back if you want. I'll find Barlow myself.
What about the gold?
Take what you can carry. Try to find a vehicle. Bury what you have outside camp. Be careful about it.
I want to find Troy.
I'm in.
OK, where does that leave us? We don't have any water, we're dehydrated. You got a radio here?
How is she?
How -- is -- your -- little girl?
Broken -- arms. Girl.
What's b-school? Is that like terrorist training?
Business school, Conrad.
You got a radio?
Where's Barlow?
Where would they take him?
Where's that?
Take us there.
We'll walk until we find some.
With what? We don't have a radio.
We can't do that.
We're not supposed to be involved with Shiites. We killed Iraqi soldiers. We broke the peace- accord.
They'd find out, we'd go to jail.
You're wrong.
We need to find our man. How much do you want to take us there?
That's too much.
Give it to him. We've got a lot.
We're gonna need it to buy our way back today, so we better spend it wisely. I'll give you eight.
Yeah, we need some guns.
Yeah, OK, we need some fighters.
Ten.
That's four million dollars.
Archie Gates.
Imam Katar. I'll give you back five suitcases to get us over the Iranian border.
What?
We gotta get to a refugee camp or we're dead. The camps are in Iran.
We can't go to the Iranian border.
Then we don't have a deal.
Give me a fucking break, man.
We saved your life.
And we saved yours.
We lost a man for you.
What good is it if you leave us to get wasted? The big army of democracy beats the ugly dictator, saves the rich Kuwaitis, but you go to jail if you help us escape the same dictator.  You saw what happened to my wife. Look at my daughter.
Who's going?
Everyone but the priests. That's
Fuck it. We'll find this place on our own.
It's not on a map. You can look.
Somebody else will take us.
Who will take us to Oasis bunker?
Jarat yalam fantam uraz.
I don't think so.
This is a human life we're talking about.
 Tell me about it.
I only join Saddam Hussein army to make good living for family, good car, good house, and now my son is dead.
I signed up for the extra cash, too.
We got a lot in common, dude. I got training and guns from America.
Not from America.
Oh, yeah, specialist guys come to Iraq, train us when we fight Iran.
What did they train you in?
Weapons, sabotage. Interrogation.
Great.
So what we get from this dirty Iraq war you and me, huh?
 I don't know.
 You don't fahking know, right?! We all scahmbag soldier who get fahked, right?
Right.
So why are you doing this to me?
It's my job, man, for Saddam, just like your job when you bomb my house.
It's not just a job, it still matters what you do.
Bullshit. It's all a job.
It still matters what you do, what you're doing right now matters.
Bullshit.
The art of war is not for killing people, it's a stratagem to give life to many with minimum violence, minimum --
Then why you bomb my fahking house and kill my son? Can you think how it feels inside your heart if I bomb your daughter?
Worse than death --
It feels like this --
Don't --
Everyday, inside my heart --
Like this, like this, like this --
Did we save anything from the Humvee?
This bag.
You got the same name as the tall model who does David Bowie.
That's Im-an, with an 'n.' He's Imam with an 'm.'
That's the same name.
It's not the same name.
Whatever. They're both attractive names.
This is the United States Army. Come out of the truck with your weapons in the air.
Shit. Sorry.
They used a lot of decoys to throw off our bombers.
Where are we gonna get a vehicle?
I know a place that's full of deserters. Maybe they got something.
America!
America! Friend!
Freedom! Thank you to America!
We don't have any food.
Where'd you get these animals from?
 Kishan tramai jahal?
This is for you, my friend, to eat if you are hungry.
No, thank you.
They're not barbarians, they're starving.
I'm getting really dizzy, man.
We need water.
Radio?
No radio.
No radio, no water, but yes CNN.
Not exactly.
Would you explain to these gentlemen that we need a vehicle of some kind?
Could I ask a question?
Does Lexus make this model?
Exactly what I said.
Listen. We use these cars to go fight Saddam soldiers.
What's so funny?
What do you mean, cannot take? We kicked Saddam's ass. We definitely take.
We are the United States military.
You're three guys with a bunch of Shiites and no Humvee.
He says the Americans have many tanks, many airplanes. We have nothing.
We will rise up together.
Jihala vamat.
Rise up together.
Look at us. Working together. Many races, many nations. Tell him, Doc.
We are united.
United. George Bush wants YOU --
To stand up for yourself.
He wants YOU --
You.
Praise Jesus.
Make the fight for freedom on your own.
Oh, yes, you can.
Go, baby, go.
Then America will follow.
Jahal yaqat.
Jahal yaqat, brothers.
God bless America, and God bless a free Iraq.
What do you say now, my friend?
Cannot give car.
Then I guess we'll have to buy them.
Judas Priest will pump you, Doc --
I already had it with the Beach Boys today.
One song.
We get our man, we come back to pick up the gold --
And my people.
My gold isn't here, and I mean all of it, your people will not survive.
I understand.
OK. Let's load and go.
Wait a second, I want to talk about this plan some more --
We're going to drive in and get Troy, exactly like we discussed.
I have a bad feeling like we're gonna get wasted.
You're scared. It's good to be scared when there's guns around.
I'm cool. I'm all right.
Your son wouldn't be dead if Saddam didn't invade Kuwait.
I know.
I heard about some bad shit that happened there.
Who's got the sick country?
Maybe Saddam is very crazy, right? And then you are crazy to bomb all of Iraq.
Too much bombing is crazy, but not saving Kuwait.
You come here to save Kuwait people?
Yes.
Really?  Jahaza fan.
Lots of people in trouble around this world, my man. You don't fight no fahking war for them.
You invaded another country. You can't do that.
Why not, dude?
It makes the world crazy. You got to keep it stable.
For what? Your pick up truck?
No, for stability. Stabilize the region.
This is your fahking stability, my main man.
Splinter.
Come on.
Go straight, go straight --
Are you feeling stable enough for more?
Stop shooting, what's the matter with you?
Shit.
Jesus God, I don't wanna get hit, please Jesus, watch over me --
It's OK, buddy, we are just talking now --
Let's go.
Come on.
You gotta be my disguise, Mr. Shiite, cuz they need my help over there --
Let's go back and get them.
Fuck a donkey, no way.
There's a chopper, we can do it.
They killed your families, you fucking cowards.
We're gonna get out of here alive, just do what I say, do you hear me?
Step, throw, one-two -- I'm gonna give it a five second fuse. That gives you two steps out the door.
Wait --
God help me.
Go.
OK.  Shorter fuse this time.
We're not done. Check every Iraqi here.
 Where's Conrad?
Don't let your guard down.
Stay there, don't move.
Jakar yizam ut naral --
How are we getting back?
We got the Rolls.
You got a Rolls?
It's been a busy day.
Hey. That's a convertible.
Keep your fucking guard up.
Is that leather interior?
I think he's in shock.
It's a fucking Infiniti convertible, isn't it?
Yes.
OK. So I owe you a car. I'm not in shock.
We can talk about cars later, OK?
Freeze --
Take it easy.
Who is this guy?
He's with us.
You're the guy with the little girl.
That's right.
What are you doing here?
He helped us find you.
All right. You're all right.
How's your girl?
She's safe. For the moment.
All right. Excellent. How can we help?
Calm down, man.
I'm calm. Don't I look calm?
We had a deal to get us to the border, but we need more vehicles for these people.
We're gonna work it out. We can do it. We have to work it out.
I'm not sure how. This is a lot of people.
OK, you choose who we take. You tell the others it's not convenient, they'll have to die.
Take it easy, man.
You think I don't know what I'm saying. I know what I'm saying. We're gonna do more than steal, that's what I'm saying. We're gonna help these people out.
This guy was worth saving.
He's a soldier.
Yes. Yes. All right.
You made it.
I thought that was you. Yeah.
Cover him.
Lock it down. Shoot anything that moves.
 Haza janav yasat.
You made it, man --
Help him.
What happened to the Jesus fire, Doc?
It's around you right now, man, it works on this side or the other side.
You never told me that part. I guess I could go to one of them shrines that erase the bad you did --
We made the right choice today, Conrad.
We did good, right?
We made the right choice.
Dear Lord watch over this man, help him if you can. Our father who art in heaven --
Help.
-- hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done --
Goddamn it.
Take my picture.
Do you still want to sell pictures?
 For twenty.
Twenty bucks?
War's been over five days, ain't gonna be any more of this, Jim.
Twenty dollars, man, what's the meaning of life?
You're lucky you got to see anybody shot in this war.
Bobby, take my picture.
If he shot the guy, it's up to him.
It's not like he shot a fucking deer. It's the enemy.
It's Troy's enemy, yours for twenty.
I've been waiting 18 years to get that right.
He's got no family.
We're his family now.
He wanted to go to one of those shrines.
Kajatar in Iran. We can take him.
Good. Take him.
Air pressure will build up about every fifteen minutes. Release the valve, close it up again.
How long can I keep doing this?
Maybe four hours, if you're not bleeding too bad inside.
I'm really thirsty.
There's no water anywhere.
 I got you hooked up if you want to call your man.
 Tar Baby, this is Brer Rabbit, do you read me?
We're gonna be court-martialed.
No, we're not.
 Tar Baby, this is Brer Rabbit, are you reading this?
 This is Tar Baby, come in.
Where are you?
 About two clicks outside camp.
We're about ready for the briar patch, over.
 Right.
You got me, Tar Baby?
I think so -- who handles the briar patch?
You do.
Oh, OK, and the Tar Baby goes to the briar patch if everything's OK, right?
No, the other way around.
Shit, I'm sorry, sir, I don't remember how the code goes --
Six personnel trucks and a Humvee.
Wow. That's a tall order for a secret operation, sir.
Talk to my friend Hash. Each driver will get 100K.
Did you say 100K?
Roger. Brer Rabbit at 239 North. Add one medavac pack to the order, and dump the reporter.
Roger. Give me two hours.
Narrow it down to what sounds like Archie Gates and a Humvee.
I want a direction, we're not gonna comb the whole goddamn desert --
This is from Barlow's C.O. at Fort Bragg, something with his wife.
 Fort Bragg? I'll be damned.
Where the hell is he going now?
I say we keep watching the General.
Quelle gonzesse, Archie, you got yourself shot.
Those better be words of sympathy.
Watcha doing out here, Troy?
Protecting the free peoples of the world, Walter, you know how it is.
We better get you fixed up to go home to the land of the brave.
Give me that penicillin, baby.
Where ees bullion at, my man?
Bullion ees buried. I'll show you after we get these people to the border.
Iranian border?
Part of the deal.
C'est super, Archie, you got yourself a pain in the ass mission of mercy.
Sorry I fucked up the code, sir.
It means we gotta move. They might be coming for us.
What are you seenking?
I see an opening we can walk through. But it's not wide enough for a truck.
We'll walk them to the border. The Iranians will take them. We'll walk back to the trucks and get out of here.
Make a close group.
 Jihad yamat -- yamat.
Let the air out.
It's not the air, I don't know what it is --
Stay back.
I'm all right. I'm just dizzy or something --
Double time.
Wait.
Let them get over the border.
Let them get over, wait --
I have to reach this --
Put his cuffs in front.
Look what's happening.
Cut my cuffs --
He's gonna die.
Goddamn it, Ron, give him medical attention, don't let him die --
We are not involved in the Shiite problem, do you understand me? You are AWOL, you are a fugitive, you are under arrest.
Cut his cuffs.
We got the gold.
What?
We got the Kuwaiti bullion.
Bullshit.
Pull that barrel.
Pull it.
How much do you have?
4 tons.
Where's it at?
Get them over first.
They helped us get it, Ron. I made a deal, and that's soldier's honor. You can't fuck them now.
You can return this gold, be a big hero, get another star maybe.
Let's go, Doug.
Who's in charge here?
We have to talk about this situation.
In a morbid tableau these men have recovered some of the gold bullion stolen from Kuwait --
--in violation of American policy, saved over a hundred Shiite refugees while recovering stolen Kuwaiti gold --
Turn that damn camera off.
That's a 75 thousand dollar camera --
What the fuck are they doing here?
I thought they were authorized --
They are not fucking authorized, for Christ's sake --
Haven't I taken care of you, dammit?
I'm gonna get that tape back.
You are under arrest. You are going to be court-martialed. And you will show us where the bullion is right now.
Yeah.
