Gentlemen, I have a plan... As of now, only the Board of Directors and my family know.
A plan's always good, Mr. Rickey. And you always got one.
My wife says I'm too old, That my health isn't up to it. My son says that every one in baseball will be against me. But I'm going to do it.
Do what, Mr. Rickey?
I'm going to bring a Negro ballplayer to the Brooklyn Dodgers.
With all due respect, sir, have you lost your mind? Imagine the abuse you'll take from the newspapers alone. Never mind how it'll play on Flatbush. Please, Mr. Rickey.
There's no law against it, Clyde.
There's a code. Break a law and get away with it, some people think you're smart. Break an unwritten law though, you'll be an outcast.
So be it. New York is full of Negro baseball fans; every dollar is green. I don't know who he is, or where he is, but he's coming.
Where'd you learn to move like that, runner?! At dime a dance night?! Stay quiet! INSERT: Birmingham, Alabama. April 8, 1945. On the first pitch the runner takes off. The catcher fires to second. See it from his POV as the runner slides in SAFE! A foot on the bag, the runner dusts off, heckles the catcher:
Is that the best you got?! Huh?! I'm going to steal nine, ten bases today! You better start counting! The catcher frowns. Standing, we see he is a big, big man.
He's got a mouth on him. Shaking his head, the catcher gets back in his crouch, signals the PITCHER. On the wind-up, the Runner is off again. The catcher fires to THIRD: Safe!
You got a rag arm, catcher!
Steal home! You'll find out what kind of arm I got!
Okay, I'm coming! The Catcher looks over at Scott who chuckles.
California, huh?
What was I? The umpire passes one hand over the other: Safe. Jack looks over at the catcher, gives him a pointed look as he goes -- The catcher shoves him in the back. Jack turns, shoves back. As the two men wrestles each other to the ground --
Josh Gibson. Oh boy can he hit.
No.
No? Rickey won't take the file; the answer is no.
Alright. Roy Campanella. Sukeforth holds it out; Rickey won't take it.
A heck of a player. But too sweet, they'll eat him alive.
 Satchel Paige then. Parrott enters carrying an armful of files.
Too old. We need a man with a future not a past. (holds up his own
Here. Jack Roosevelt Robinson. As Parrott sets them on the desk, they start to slide off, spilling to the floor. Helpless to stem the tide, Parrott looks down, surrounded by black faces...
 A four sport college man, out of UCLA. That means he's played with white boys.
He was court-martialed. A trouble maker. He argues with umpires. A quick temper is his reputation. Rickey is obviously keen on him.
What was he court-martialed for?
For refusing to sit in the back of a military bus.  Ft. Hood, Texas. The driver asked him to move back. The MPs had to take him off.
Do you see?
I see he resents segregation. If he were white, we'd call it spirit!
If he were white, sir, we wouldn't be looking for him. Rickey ends the debate...
Robinson's a Methodist. I'm a Methodist. God's a Methodist. We can't go wrong. Find him. Bring him here.
Fill her up?
Yes, sir. The attendant starts unscrewing caps on two 50-GALLON TANKS.
Where you all headed?
Chicago. As the attendant shoves down a pump, starts filling, Jack steps off. He spots and heads for a restroom. White Men Only lettered on the door. The attendant roused as he sees.
Hey! Where you going, boy!?
I'm going to the toilet.
Shit, boy, c'mon. You know you can't go in there. Jack does a slow burn, then suddenly strides toward the attendant. The air rife with tension.
Take that hose out of the tank.
Huh?
Take it out. We'll get our ninety- nine gallons of gas someplace else. The attendant blinks. He takes a look from Jack to up and down the deserted highway. No business in sight.
Okay, use it. But don't stay in there too long. Jack heads back. The Driver, the players, a bit stunned.
Are you Jackie Robinson?
Do you have a girl?
Excuse me?
A man needs a family relying on him. It insures he'll behave responsibly. Do you have a girl?
I think so.
You think so? Jack looks to Sukeforth who smiles placidly. Back to Rickey.
I don't make much money. Between the army and now baseball I've been away a lot. And Rae, Rachel, she wants to finish school. Considering all that, I say I think so.
Do you love her? Rachel?
Yes, sir, very much.
Marry her. What? Rickey stands, walks to a window. Jack looks at Sukeforth who raises a hand as if to say: Give it a chance.
Baseball's a hard life; a man needs a good woman by his side. You don't want the only person waiting for you at home to be a catcher. Sukeforth chuckles at that. Rickey fingers open a slat on the blind and peers out. Jack looks hard at him.
Coach Sukeforth here said you were starting a new Negro League. That doesn't make sense to me.
It doesn't, huh? Are you calling us liars, Jack?
What's this about, Mr. Rickey?
This is about baseball. Rickey opens the shade. Sunlight floods in. Rickey follows it to the chalkboard, to the list of players under Montreal.
I see you starting in the spring with our affiliate in Montreal. If you make it there, we'll try you down here with the Dodgers. The white Brooklyn Dodgers. Jack looks to Sukeforth who nods: Yes, you heard right.
I'll pay you $600 a month and a $3,500 bonus when you sign the contract. Is that agreeable? Believe it or not that's a lot of money to Jack on this day in time. This is all becoming a bit overwhelming.
Yes, sir. That's fine.
There is one condition. I have a pile of scouting reports. I know you can hit behind the runner, that you can read a pitch. The question is can you control your temper?
My temper?
Yes your temper! Are you deaf?! Rickey furious, the avuncular old man gone. Jack sits there, fists now balled. Rickey to Sukeforth like he's not there:
He looks proud. Willful.
He'll need to be. Rickey looks back to Jack who is as angry as he is confused.
I want to win! I want ballplayers who can win! Are you one of them?!
Yes.
A black man in white baseball. Imagine the reaction. The vitriol. Rickey strides forward, gets in his face.
The Dodgers check into a hotel. A decent good hotel. You're worn out from the road and some clerk won't give you the pen to sign in.
The team stops at a restaurant. The waiter won't take your order.  Didn't you see the sign on the door? No animals allowed.
I want one who has the guts not to fight back! There are people who will not like this. They will do anything to get you to react. If you echo a curse with a curse, they will only hear yours. Follow a blow with a blow and they will say a Negro lost his temper; that the Negro does not belong. Your enemy will be out in force, but you can not meet him on his own low ground. We win with hitting, running and fielding, nothing else. We win if the world is convinced of two things: that you are a fine gentlemen and a great ballplayer. Like our Savior, you must have the guts to turn the other cheek. Jack considers Rickey. Rickey looks worn out.
Can you do it? Jack poised at what will be his Rubicon. He crosses.
Mr. Rickey, you give me a uniform, you give me a number on my back, and I'll give you the guts.
Hello?
Rae, I'm in Brooklyn.
Brooklyn? For what?
I don't want to say on the phone. In fact, I'm not supposed to tell anyone. She can hear the tingle in his voice.
Jack?
I'm here, Rae
What's going on? You're supposed to be playing in Chicago?
We've been tested you and me. Our loyalty, our faith. We've done everything the right way. Me trying to make money. You finishing school. Separated by the war, now by baseball. We don't owe the world a thing. Only each other. She's actually getting a little scared now.
Jack, what are you talking about? What happened?
The Brooklyn Dodgers just signed me to play ball up in Montreal. It might lead to bigger things. To something wonderful.
What does it mean? For you and me?
Rae. Will you marry me?
Absolutely. When?
Now.
Did my mom look happy?
Yes. They reach the door. Jack gets out a key to unlock it. Rachel looks nervous, steps back across the hall.
Did my gram look happy? Swinging the door open, he looks at her. The air charged.
Everyone looked happy. I've never seen so many people looking happy.
Did Jack Robinson look happy?
Too late. You already do. It's you and me, Rae.
Until the wheels fall off.
It can wait one more night
 I'd follow you anywhere, Mr. Robinson. He picks her up, carries her over the threshold. As the door clicks shut behind them...
Who's the best shortstop you ever saw?
Rabbit Tavener.
Rabbit Tavener? And you call yourself a sports writer?
Yes, a sentimental one. I'm from Detroit. He was the Tiger shortstop when I was a boy. How about you? Who's your best?
Pop Lloyd.
Not Honus Wagner?
Wagner is number two. And Rabbit Tavener would not break my top 25. Where do you suppose Jackie Robinson will end up on that list?
He won't break it. He doesn't have a shortstop's arm. Robinson belongs on second base.
Alright then, where would he rate at second?
If he was playing now he'd be the best second baseman in the majors.
High praise. He'll have to be the best in the minor leagues first.
What are you saying, Mr. Rickey?
I'm saying it's going to be a very interesting spring training. A lot of players are coming back from the war and with gas rationing over, we can train down in Florida again.
Daytona Beach?
Those towns may as well be a million miles from Daytona.
Live Oaks is 150 actually.
I spoke to the Daytona mayor. He assures me there'll be no trouble. But Rickey doesn't sound so sure. They consider each other.
Mr. Smith, are you a Communist?
I'm a Democrat. Why do you ask?
I have a business proposition. What's your salary at the Courier?
Fifty dollars a week.
I will pay you an additional fifty dollars a week plus expenses if you will attend spring training with Jackie Robinson. You will watch over him, help him to avoid the harm that could come if he were to do or say anything out of turn. You will act as his chauffeur, you will secure accommodations for him wherever the team may be, help him find restaurants, etc...
What's in it for me? Besides the fifty dollars and a whole lot of aggravation?
Unprecedented access for any reportage you feel appropriate. What do you say, Mr. Smith?
I say yes, sir. If a Negro is good enough to stop a Nazi bullet in France; he's good enough to stop a line drive at Yankee Stadium.
Ebbets Field actually, but yes, I agree. The world is ready.
As our former President Herbert Hoover remarked in his tribute to our national pastime: The rigid voluntary rules of right and wrong, as applied in baseball, are second only to religion in strengthening the morals of the American people.' Polite applause as the speaker steps off. The clapping more enthusiastic as the lights dim on all but an impromptu set: plantation house columns. Hoots as a BUTLER appears wearing satin knee breeches and a MONTREAL ROYALS jersey. He holds a ring like a lawn jockey, a WHITE MAN in BLACK FACE. The laughs get louder as he peers out with exaggerated wide eyes.
Lordy, lordy, it's looking like da massa will be late dis ebning. As the LAUGHS from the audience subside, a sportswriter dressed as a COLONEL enters from stage right.
Robbie! Robbie!
Yassuh, Massa Kunl. Here Ah is. Huge LAUGHS as he struts and dances his way over.
Jackie, you woolly headed rascal. How long yo' been in the family?
Ebber since Massa Rickey done bots me from da Kansas City Monarchs.
 Rickey that no good carpetbagger! What could he be thinking! Huge LAUGHS from that one. Two people enjoying it we'll recognize later as HERB PENNOCK and BOB COOKE.
Ah came near bein' killed last night, Kunl.
How's that, Jackie boy?
Ah was comin' up a dark street and three men was behind me. And they tried to do me with a baseball bat.
You don't say?
Yes, suh. Ah recognized one of dem. Ah'm gonna hab him arrested.
But I thought you said it was dark?
It was. But I know he played for the Philadelphia Baseball Club. On account of he struck at me three times and never hit me once. That brings the house down. Check out their laughing faces.
You knock the cover off that ball.
I will, Mama. Mallie hugs Jack and then kisses Rachel.
Look after each other.
We will. She reaches in her bag, brings out a cardboard SHOEBOX; it's ever so slightly greasy at the bottom.
Take this. It's chicken.
They have food on the plane, Mama.
You never know what might happen. I don't want you getting there starving and too weak to hit. Rachel gives Jack a subtle but emphatic look: No.
I couldn't tell her no.
I know she means well; I just don't want to be seen eating chicken out of a box like some country bumpkin. Jack runs his hand over her coat.
No one's going to mistake you for a bumpkin in this.
Well, they'll know I belong on that plane or wherever I happen to be.
The flight to Pensacola leaves in an hour... You okay?
I've just never seen one before.
 We're not in Pasadena anymore. A sudden momentum carries her forward.
Honey... Rae -- He takes a step after her, stops as she disappears inside. Jack unsure what to do. He looks around. Looks back. He doesn't need this right now.
I promised Mr. Rickey we'd stay out of trouble.
Did you promise him we wouldn't go to the bathroom? You've done it.
Before I promised.
It was just a toilet. You'd think the commodes were made of gold. The busboy watches as Jack and Rachel slide into a booth. As Jack reaches for a MENU, here comes the COOK.
You folks can't sit here.
Excuse me?
It's white only. Jack looking to Rachel; it's equanimity time. Not easy.
I'll sell you some sandwiches. But you gotta take em to go. Jack looks to the busboy, back to the cook.
No. You hang onto those. Mastering himself, Jack slides out. Drilling the cook with a look, he offers his hand to Rachel as she slides out as well.
Just a hop to Daytona now. As Rachel nods, an AIRLINE EMPLOYEE boards, MISS BISHOP. She makes her way over. She spots who she's looking for.
Jack Robinson? Come with me. She starts away without explaining, looks back at them a bit impatiently.
Come on now. Both of you.
We have to lighten the plane. There's some bad weather east of here. A heavy plane's dangerous.
When's the next flight?
Tomorrow morning. But it's booked. So someone'll have to cancel. Jack and Rachel unaware as a WHITE COUPLE are ushered out a door and onto the tarmac behind them.
Look, I'm with the Brooklyn Dodger organization. I've got to get down to Daytona. I'm supposed to report to spring training in the morning.
We'll do our best to get you down there by tomorrow afternoon, but it might be the day after.
He follows her gaze to where the white couple get on the plane they got off. Jack wheels on Miss Bishop, furious.
You gave away our seats! Get us back on that plane! Miss Bishop picks up a PHONE, holds it in Jack's face.
Do you want to call the Sheriff? Or should I?
Mama knew... He holds it out to Rachel. She slides over, takes it, takes a bite as well, smiles at him. He smiles back.
It's good.
I got it! I got it! I got it! I got it! They both back off at the last second and it drops to the ground between them. Durocher chuckles.
That's what spring training's for, boys! Sort out our differences! He hits another. This time to the outfield where veteran DIXIE WALKER gives chase, finally gives up on it.
C'mon, Dixie, get after it!
I'm gonna squeeze one more year out of that worn out body of yours!
If you could, skipper, my wife would sure appreciate it!
Keeping the women happy! That's what it's all about!
How are they looking, Leo?
Rusty, Mr. Rickey. But we'll get em oiled up and ready in no time. You find your lost sheep yet? Troubled, Rickey shakes his head no'. As he does, Harold Parrot hurries over. He's the Dodgers travelling secretary.
Jackie Robinson's on a bus leaving Pensacola.
A bus? Harold, how in blazes did he end up on a bus?! BOB BRAGAN, in his catching gear, passing by with pitchers RALPH BRANCA and KIRBY HIGBE. Higbe asides to Bragan:
Why don't they just put him on a watermelon truck?
What's the matter with you guys?
Not a thing, Branca, but we ain't just two pretty faces either.
Jackie Robinson... Mr. Rickey sent me to meet you. Wendell Smith. Pittsburgh Courier. I'm going to be your Boswell.
My who?
Your chronicler, your advance man. Hell, even your chauffeur.  Mrs. Robinson.
It's Rachel.
Man, you two look wiped out.
You ever been down South before, Rachel?
First time. We have our problems in Pasadena, but not like this.
Mr. Rickey says we follow the law. If Jim Crow and the state of Florida say Negroes do this and that, then we do this and that.
Joe and Duff Harris live here. He gets out the black vote, does a lot of good for colored folks.
Mr. Rickey set it up himself.
Brooklyn plays downtown; Montreal a few blocks from here. You'll stay with the Harrises except for a few days at the end of the week. The whole Dodger organization is going to Sanford, about 45 minute away. You'll stay here though, Rachel.
Where are the other wives staying?
There are no other wives. You're the only one Mr. Rickey allowed to spring training. As the HARRISES step out on the porch, wave hello...
I call this the love nest. I hope you like it.
I'm sure. Thank you. As Jack enters, Mrs. Harris starts back down.
Dinner's at five. Rachel enters, closes the door behind her --
It's a joke, right?
I like it. The love nest. She kisses him. He's starting to like it, too.
Remind me dinner's at five.
I'll try to remember... As the kisses become more urgent...
The first day of Spring Training. My Pittsburgh Courier readers need to know how it feels.
It's okay.
That's not exactly a headline.
Look, Jack, right now it's just me asking you. But you get on that field and it's going to be the New York Times and the Sporting News. You should think about it.
If they ask something, I'll answer.
Alright, but you know when you're at the plate, you want to feel like you see the pitch come in slow? Well, you want to see the questions come in slow, too. Jack just looks at him. Gets out. Smith sighs.
Listen to this, Harold. Whenever I hear a white man - yours truly - broadcasting what a Moses he is to the Negro race, then I know the latter needs a bodyguard. (Parrott tries to
It is those of the carpetbagger stripe of the white race - me again - who under the guise of helping, in truth are using the Negro for their own selfish interest, thereby retarding the race! Parrott tries to interrupt again, but Rickey is furious.
The minor league commissioner of baseball said that! I pay part of his salary! You wouldn't stab me in the back like this, would you?
Why didn't you say so?!
That's him, huh?
Take a wild guess. Flash bulbs go off in Jack's face. Questions like punches. Shouts of Jackie' and then...
Jackie, do you think you can make it with these white boys? Jack looks off to where Smith watches, back to the reporter. See the questions slow. He answers with measure.
Sure, I had no problem with white men in the service or at UCLA.
What'll you do if one of these pitchers throws at your head?
 I'll duck. That gets some laughs.
Jack, what's your natural position?
I've been playing shortstop.
Are you after Pee Wee Reese's job?
Reese plays for Brooklyn. I'm worried about making Montreal.
Is this about politics?
It's about getting paid. Jack doing beautifully. Smith breathes a sigh of relief...
He's fine with me, so long as you keep him up in Montreal.
Here comes the old man to save him. They watch as Rickey pulls Jack from the press. He leads Jack directly toward Hopper. As Walker excuses himself...
Good luck, Hop...
Clay, I'd like you to meet Jackie Robinson. Jackie, Clay Hopper, manager of the Montreal Royals. Hopper shakes his hand as they exchange greetings.
We ain't doing much today. Just throwing the ball around and hitting a few. Why don't you toss a few with those fellas over there?
Meet Jackie Robinson.
Hey, Rook! Did you hear about the redneck shortstop?
He thought the last two words of the National Anthem were Play Ball! Jack forces a smile, but the joke comes off a bit harsh. And they seem like they're laughing at him as...
How about the shortstop making all the errors, tried to kill himself by jumping out on the highway?
A bus just missed him. Drove right between his legs! As the bus passes by, Jack sees the impassive faces of Dixie Walker, Reiser, Stanky, Pee Wee Reese and finally 20-year-old Branca. Branca smiles, offers an awkward little wave.
Between his legs, good one. He must've read a joke book. If he can read. Jack just gets in the car. Smith sighs, drum rolls the hood of the Buick.
Hi, Wendell, how are you...? Well, looks like I got a long drive to Sanford.
Jackie, I'm Ray Brock. Welcome to Sanford Florida! The day belongs to decent minded people. They shake hands. Brock looks to Smith, obviously knows him.
Wendell, good to see you.
I'm just a ballplayer, Mr. Brock.
Tell that to all the little colored boys playing baseball in Florida today. You're a hero to them. The look on Jack's face says that's a heavy burden.
Sit down, have something to drink. My special rum and coke.
No thank you, sir, I don't drink.
A ballplayer who doesn't drink? That's a new one on me.
I'll have one. I'm a stereotypical reporter through and through.
Mr. Brock, do you have a desk? I'd like to get a letter to my wife.
Of course, this way. As Mr. Brock leads Jack ahead, Smith sips his drink.
He's getting by on a quick release, but his arm's too weak for short. Second base is his spot.
I agree. And I'll state another obvious, Clay, I need the players to act like gentlemen around him.
Uh huh.
To treat him as they would any other teammate.
Uh huh.
To be natural, to impose no restrictions on themselves. To all work together in harmony. WHACK! The hit & run is on. The man on first runs on the pitch as a LOW LINE DRIVE shoots for the gap between 1st and 2nd. Robinson turns himself inside out to dive on his belly and catch it before it hits the ground. He spins himself around, pivots on a knee to throw the runner out before he can get back to first.   Rickey is astounded.
That was superhuman.
Clay, I realize that attitude is part of your heritage; that you practically nursed race prejudice at your mother's breast, so I will let it pass. But I will add this: you can manage Robinson fairly and correctly or you can be unemployed. They both look over as Jack comes off the field toward them.
Attaboy, Jackie! Way to turn two!
I hope Jackie sleeps alright. Chasing baseballs in the sun all day, I'd be in my grave. How are they treating him out there? They watch as a CAR slows, parks across the street.
Okay as far as I can see. A MIDDLE-AGED WHITE MAN, LUTHER exits the car and starts toward them.
Who is it you're looking for?
Nigra ball player. The air suddenly alive with danger.
He's asleep. Maybe you better come back in the morning.
I ain't comin' back. Other fellas is comin'. They ain't too happy about him stayin' here in Sanford. Playin' ball with white boys.  Skedaddle, that's what I'd do. If'n they get here, and he's still here, there's gonna be trouble. He turns and walks away. As they watch, a phone rings...
Yes, Wendell, what is it?
I see... Yes, I understand. Wake him up and get him out of there. Put him in the car and start driving for Daytona Beach. Now. And, Wendell, under no circumstance tell him what this is about. I do not want him to get it in his head to stay there and fight.
I was just getting loose. Smith sticks his head in the door.
Don't just sit there. Pack your duds. We're blowin'. A phone RINGS somewhere. They hear Brock answer, then:
Wendell?! Smith leaves the room. Hold on Jack, despair as he listens.
Yes, Mr. Rickey, I'm with him now... We're pulling out for Daytona in five minutes, soon as he gets his bag packed... Yes, yes, it's just one of those things. One of those things.' As Jack's head hangs a little lower.
I wonder what he wants?
To run us out of town.
What are you talking about? The man close now. As Jack cranks down the window, Smith floors it. The Buick SCREECHES away, SWERVING around a CAR coming the other way.
What the hell, Wendell?!
Man came by while you were asleep.
Why didn't you say so?
Mr. Rickey was afraid you wouldn't leave, that you would fight. As it becomes clear, Jack starts to LAUGH.
What the hell are you laughing at?
I thought you woke me because I was cut from the team. Jack LAUGHS harder. Wendell LAUGHS as well. As it fades, Jack looks back over his shoulder. Jesus...
Ed! You stay where I can see you! 13-year old ED CHARLES turns, waves his baseball glove over his head so she can see him. Then to no one in particular:
I'm thirteen years old. WHITE PEOPLE enter at several gates around them.
I've spoken to the mayor. I've explained how much money we'll spend in Daytona. But still, when this fine young Negro man steps on that field today, he and the Dodgers will technically be breaking the law. A law which says white and black players cannot enjoy the same field at the same time. Does that make sense to you? Does Jim Crow make any sense when placed against the words of the United States Constitution? When placed against the word of God? POP OUT to reveal he sits beside the DODGER BATBOY, so short his feet don't touch the ground. Rickey offers his peanut bag. As the batboy takes one...
I'll tell you, it does not make sense to me.
Now batting the second baseman -- Jackie Robinson! Jack wincing as he steps forward to both cheers and boos from the white sections. As a go home, coon' drifts over -- A BIG OVATION from the black section in right drowns it out.
Jack's got a thick skin. He'll be okay.
How about you?
Higbe watching from the mound as Jack steps into the batter's box. Two well wishing voices from the infield stands.
Come on, black boy, you can make the grade!
They're giving you a chance! Do something about it! Jack heartened at the words. Concentrates as Higbe's first pitch is fired. High and tight, Jack jerks out of the way.
The 13-year-old holding his hands together in prayer.
Please, God, let Jackie show them what we can do.
Here comes the next pitch. Even tighter. Jack nearly hit.
Ball two! Jack glaring, crowds the plate more. Bragan shows 1, taps his right thigh signalling outside. Jack watches it sail, doesn't bite. The umpire: Ball Three! Higbe's fun slipping away as he can't find the strike zone.
Come on, Rook! Ain't you gonna swing at something?! Jack takes a practice swing, waits as Bragan sets up right over the plate. Here comes the pitch. Low. Ball four!
It's just a walk.
Who can blame them?
Looks ill-tempered over to first where Jack gives the same look back as he sidesteps an enormous, defiant lead off the bag. Higbe incredulous. Did he just do that?
Watching from a seat behind third.
Thataway, Jackie! Thataway!
Hell! You're supposed to go back to third when I step off! Don't you know nothing?! He throws over. Jack back to the bag. Higbe gets the ball back, looks in. Jack bouncing, pounding off third. His movements carry violence within them. Like a piston exploding in an engine. Higbe into his motion, stops his delivery, accidentally drops the ball to the ground. The umpire signals BALK, points Jack home. Higbe is furious.
I don't understand. What happened?
It's a balk, Mama. The pitcher can't start toward home and then stop. Jackie scores.
But he didn't do anything.
Oh, mama, yes he did, he discombobulated the man.
Durocher looks to Branca, impressed.
He didn't come to play; he came to kill. Durocher starts out to the mound to talk to Higbe.
Watching from right field, the black crowd still cheering. He walks over toward the open bullpen where Casey stands.
This really how it's gonna be some day? Baseball?
Git offa this field now!
What!? Why?
It's against the law is why. No niggers don't play with no white boys. Git off or go to jail. Jack shrugs the policeman's hand off his shoulder. That sends him reaching for his nightstick and -- Sukeforth is there to get between them.
You swing that thing you better hit me between the eyes with it.
Is that so? The CROWD BOOING. The black section especially.
 Hey, hold on, what'd he do wrong?
We ain't havin' Nigras mix with white boys in this town. Ya'll ain't up-states now; they gotta stay separate. Brooklyn Dodgers ain't changing our way of living. Where are you all from anyhow?
Greenwood, Mississippi.
Hell, man, you oughta know better.  Now tell your Nigra I said to git. You think I'm foolin'? Hopper looks desperately to Jack who just stands there.
What did you do?
I said okay, Skipper, tell him... Ah'm a-gittin'. Sho'nuff, ah is.
You didn't?
I did. Then I took a long shower. We lost 2 to 1. She takes a few exaggerated steps to amuse him.
Ah'm a-gittin', ah'm a gittin'. He laughs, takes her hand. He's going to kiss her.
You're not getting away from me.
Get back, Rae. Go back. Cracker stops square across from him. Jack's fists balled.
I want you to know something.
Yeah, what's that?
I want you to know I'm pulling for you to make good. And a lot of folks here feel the same way. If a man's got the goods, he deserves a fair chance. That's all.  Ma'am. As Cracker walks away... Rachel takes Jack's hand.
You wanted to see me, Mr. Rickey? Rickey nods, consider the field a moment.
Bermuda grass grows so well here. I wish we could get it to grow like this in Brooklyn.
I like the way it smells when they mow it.
Me, too. Rickey consider the field a moment, then Jack.
Jackie, it's my pleasure to tell you that you've earned a spot on the Montreal Royals. When they head north Tuesday for opening day against Jersey City, you'll be on the train. Jack trying to hold down his excitement.
I won't let you down.
I know that.
If you don't mind, I've got to go tell my wife.
Give her my regards. Jack about to head off when he looks back..
Why are you doing this, Mr. Rickey?
I'm an opportunist. With you and the Negro players I hope to bring up next year I'll put together a team that can win the World Series. And the World Series means money. Jack studies him a beat, not quite buying it.
Don't you believe that?
I don't think what I believe is important. Only what I do.
Agreed. Therefore, run the bases like the Devil himself.
Worry those pitchers so they come apart. Sometimes they'll catch you, but don't worry about that. Ty Cobb got caught plenty. Just run as you see fit. Put the natural fear of God into them.
The train picks up speed. The boys start to run. Arms pumping, feet flying. One boy drops off. Then the other. But Ed still runs. Chasing after that train carrying Jackie Robinson. Finally, he stops, heaving for breath, watching the train disappear around the bend. A lonely beat. Then -- Ed gets down on his hands and knees. He sets his ear on the rail, closes his eyes. A thrum comes off the rail. A huge smile spreads. He straightens, shouts back to his friends:
30,000 FANS pack a stadium built for 24,500. Bunting and flags everywhere. 1000s of black fans are here (segregated only financially in New Jersey).
Come on, Jackie, this fella can't pitch! Speaking of the pitch, here it comes. Jack tops a WEAK GROUNDER to short. As he's thrown out by a mile...
You okay?
I think I might be sick.
I'd be sick at a swing like that, too.
Are you alright, honey?
I'm sick. I don't know why. The older woman rolls off a piece of paper towel for her.
Thank you.
When did you have your monthly last?
I'm late.
It may be that you're pregnant. The older woman offers a little smile, leaves her there. INSERT: Third Inning.
Come on, Jackie. Come on, batter.
I'll be damned...
Robinson jogged around the bases, his heart singing... The crowd loves it as he continues toward third where Sukeforth is clapping for all he's worth.
And our own hearts beat just a bit faster, and the thrill ran through us like champagne bubbles...
Oh, Jack... Oh Jack...
Jack! Jack! INSERT: November 18, 1946. Pasadena, California. She is in labor and we are in Huntington Memorial Hospital. A CRY. The DOCTOR holds up a slick, wailing NEWBORN.
It's a boy. As Rachel holds out her arms for him...
My daddy left. He left us flat in Cairo, Georgia. I was only six months older than you are now. I don't remember him. Nothing good, nothing bad. Nothing.
As all of us know a young Negro second baseman played north of the border last season... INSERT: Brooklyn YMCA. February 5, 1947. In back: TWO DEACONS in the back whisper over a SPORTS PAGE.
Look here what he did.
Last season doesn't matter. The International League, it doesn't matter. What matters is this year. What matters is Brooklyn.
Shhh... Here he comes. As Herbert Miller introduces...
I present the general manager of the Brooklyn Dodger baseball club, Mr. Branch Rickey! Warm APPLAUSE as Rickey steps up. As it settles...
Good evening. I have something very important to talk with you about tonight. Something that will require courage from all of us.
I have a ballplayer on my Montreal team named Jackie Robinson. The start of applause. Rickey motions for it to stop.
He may stay there or he may be brought to Brooklyn. But if Jackie does come up to the Dodgers, the biggest threat to his success, the one enemy most likely to ruin that success, is the Negro people themselves! There is shocked silence in the room. Rickey notices a group of KIDS watching from a raised running track, soldiers on:
I say it as cruelly as I can to make you all realize the weight of responsibility that is not only on myself and the Dodgers, but on Negroes everywhere. For on the day Jackie enters the National League, if he does, I have no doubt every one of you will form parades and welcoming committees. You'll strut. You'll wear badges. You'll hold Jackie Robinson days and Jackie Robinson nights. You'll get drunk, fight and be arrested. This is too much. People are slackjawed. Rickey powers on.
You'll wine and dine him until he is fat and futile. You'll symbolize his importance into a national comedy and yes, a tragedy! So let me tell you this!  If any group or segment of Negro society uses the advancement of Jackie Robinson in baseball as a triumph of race over race, I will regret the day I ever signed him to a contract, and I will personally see that baseball is never so abused and misrepresented again! Is he done? An embarrassed smattering of applause. Mostly shock and stares. As Rickey stands there uncomfortably...
I question your bedside manner, Mr. Rickey, but they've agreed to set up a committee of self-policing. We'll call it the 'Don't Spoil Jackie's Chances' campaign.
Thank you, Mr. Miller. I'm sorry; the spotlight will be on us all.
Yeah?
Hello, Leo, what are you doing?
I'm bowling. Wait, I'm snowshoeing in the Alps. I'm trying to sleep, Mr. Rickey. It's still dark out.
Another spring training is upon us. In Panama. I need to know your attitude toward Jackie Robinson.
I don't got an attitude toward him. The girl rolls over to look at him. She is the actress LORRAINE DAY and she is stunning. As Durocher regards her...
Eight times in the Bible we're told to love our neighbor. It's one of God's most repeated commands.
I don't know much about the Bible.
Me neither...
But I didn't go to school just to eat my lunch either. I'll play an elephant if he can help us win. To make room for him, I'll send my own brother home if he's not as good.
 What are you going to do with me?
We're playing for money, Mr. Rickey. Winning's the only thing that matters. Is he a nice guy?
If by nice you mean soft, no, not particularly.
Good. He can't afford to be. Nice guys finish last.
What about nice girls? She starts to kiss him. It's hard to concentrate.
So you have no objections to him?
None whatsoever. Can I go back to sleep now?
Yes. Oh -- and Leo?
What?
The Bible says a thing or two about adultery as well.
I'm sure it's got a lot to say about a lot. Good night. Durocher hangs up the phone, looks to her.
What am I gonna do with you?
Leo, I thought you knew... As she kisses him...
Promise me you'll write.
When did I ever not write?
I want you to know I'm there for you. Even if it's words on paper. He's sees she's raw, takes her in his arms with the baby.
Rae, you're in my heart. She sighs, rests her head on his shoulder.
You're getting close now. The closer you get, the worse they'll be. Don't let them get to you.
I will not. God built me to last. He kisses her. She kisses him back.
See you in Brooklyn in eight weeks.
It might be Montreal. A certainty grips her. She passes it on to him.
It's going to be Brooklyn. I know it is. Power in her words. He nods, looks off toward the taxi.
I've got to go, Rae. She nods. They kiss, embrace a last time. He starts away down the walk. She watches. Something not quite right. A tug as Jack stops, looks back at her. Fighting back her emotion and then impelled forward, she runs to him. They come together. She practically disappears in his arms. They do not want to be apart.
It's a pipe dream, Mr. Rickey.
Pipe dream? What do you mean by pipe dream? INSERT: Panama City, Panama. March 18, 1947.
I mean it ain't gonna happen. The Dodgers are never gonna demand Robinson be brought up from Montreal. Ball players are conservative.
A team full of tough war veterans? Immigrants' sons? Boys from impoverished parts of the country?
It - ain't - gonna - happen.
You really believe they won't accept him? Once they see how he plays, how he can help them win.
I'm not saying they won't accept him: I'm saying they won't ask for him. I'm saying Robinson's good medicine, but they're not gonna like the taste. I'm saying bend over, boys, and get ready, this one might hurt a little.
Why do you think Rickey's got us playing spring games in Panama?
He wants to get us used to Negro crowds. He wants more of them than us. He's hoping it'll get us more comfortable being around Robinson. Higbe clears his throat, reads what he's written:
We, the undersigned Brooklyn Dodgers will not play ball on the same field as Jackie Robinson. Higbe signs it. He hands the pen to Bragan who adds his own name. Casey signs with a flourish. Casey holds out the pen to Walker who doesn't take it right away. An odd beat.
If you wanna make your mark, Dixie, we can witness it. Everyone laughs; it loosens Walker up enough to sign.
C'mon in!
The boys enter. Eddie Stanky sits in a chair stripped to the waist, soaking his right elbow in a BUCKET OF ICE.
What's goin' on?
Got a petition goin' on, Stank.
To keep Robinson up in Montreal where he belongs.
Oh... Did Pee Wee sign it?
Ain't asked him yet. What difference does it make?
None, just wonderin'.
 Can't sign now. I'm indisposed. Could I catch up with you later?
Look, it's like this. I got a wife, a baby, and I got no money. I don't want to step in anything.
What if they put him at shortstop?
 The hell he does!
He does not have the ice water in his veins for big league baseball.
So let him show what he's got. Robinson can play or he can't. It'll all take care of itself.
Give me the pen. Higbe grins, hands it over. As Furillo signs...
Yes, Mr. Rickey.
Have our friends in the press gone to sleep yet?
We are the only people awake on this entire isthmus, Mr. Rickey.
A deliberate violation of the law, needs a little show of force. I leave it to you. Good night, Leo.
Yes, Mr. Rickey.
Wake up, ladies! Wake the Hell up!  It's come to my attention that some of you fellas don't want to play with Robinson. That you even got a petition drawn up that you're all gonna sign. Well boys, you know what you can do with your petition?
C'mon, Leo...
Come on what?!
Ball players gotta live together, shower together, it's not right to force him on us. Besides, I own a hardware store back home and I --
Screw your hardware store, Dix! And if you don't like it, screw you! Mr. Rickey'll be happy to make other arrangements for you. Durocher suddenly marches to Higbe, looks like he's going to belt him. As Higbe gulps, Durocher turns to the team.
I don't care if he's yellow or black or has stripes like a zebra, if Robinson can help us win, and everything I've seen says he can, then he's gonna play on this ball club. Like it, lump it, make your mind up to it because he's coming! And think about this when your heads hit the pillow, he's only the first, boys, only the first. More are coming right behind him. They have talent and they wanna play! He lets that sink a moment.
Yes, sir, they're gonna come diving and scratching. So I'd forget your petition and worry about the field. Because unless you fellas pay a little more attention to your work, they are going to run you right out of the ball park! A petition?  Are you ballplayers or lawyers? As he marches past them and through the doors...
Robinson! As Jack turns, Sukeforth tosses him a FIRST BASEMAN'S GLOVE.
What do you want me to do with this?
Play first base.
I've never played first base in my life, Coach.
Well, it's like this. Brooklyn's got a solid second baseman. And they got Pee Wee Reese at short. But first base is up for grabs. Are you catching my drift?
El es muy malo.
Mr. Rickey said he wants you playing conspicuous baseball!
Conspicuous.
Bragan, most of your teammates have recanted on this petition nonsense. Are you really here to tell me you don't want to play with Robinson?
Yes, Sir. My friends back in Birmingham would never forgive me.
And your friends here in Brooklyn?  Then I will accommodate you. If you give me your word that you will try your very best for this team until I can work out a trade. That gets Bragan's goat. He jumps up, really mad.
Do you think I would quit on anyone?! I don't quit.
Only on yourself apparently. You can go, Bragan.
Send Dixie in.
I received your letter, Dixie.
I'm keeping my reasons private. Hope you can respect that, sir.
I realize, Dixie, that you have a Southern upbringing, that you would have to subordinate your feelings for the welfare of this venture. I for one would deeply appreciate it. I think we can all learn something.
What I have, Mr. Rickey, is a hardware store back home. It's called Dixie Walker's. Folks don't come because I have the lowest prices, they come because it's called Dixie Walker's. Understand? And I make as much money owning that store as I do playing for you.
Is that what you're you afraid of?  Bragan's a third-stringer, but you bat clean-up. You're popular in Brooklyn. Children look up to you!
You got my letter; can I go?
I'll start looking for a trade or a sale. But it won't happen until I get value in return. Until then I expect you to drive in runs.
I always have. That's my job.
You again. Smith leans back, blinks.
That's right. Me again. Something wrong with that, Jack?
Come on. Jack continues past. As Smith follows...
They can't keep you on Montreal for long. After these exhibition games, they've got to bring you up.
Do I have to entertain you? More silence, then...
You ever wonder why I sit out in right field with my typewriter on my knees? Does that ever cross your mind? Jack stares out the passenger window, not in the mood. As he looks up at some of the taller buildings they pass...
It's because Negro reporters aren't allowed in the press box. Jack doesn't answer, doesn't look over. Finally Smith starts talking to himself. Pretending to be Jack.
Why I'm from Detroit, Jack.
My daddy used to work at Fair Lane. That was Mr. Ford's estate. My daddy was Mr. Henry Ford's cook.
Cooked for him for years, but never once broke bread with him. I'd go to work with daddy sometimes. Play baseball out on the lawn with Mr. Ford's grandchildren. We all had a real good time. But it was understood, if they got tired of playing ball and moved inside to the bowling alley or swimming pool, I was not invited or allowed. The grass was as far as I got. So guess what? You're not the only one with something at stake here.
 If I start talking, will you stop?
I'd be happy to. Smith stops at a red light.
I apologize. You've been there for me through this more than anyone besides Rae and Mr. Rickey. But I guess that's what bothers me.
How do you mean?
I don't like needing someone to be there for me. I don't like needing anyone but myself. I never have.
You are a hard case, Jack Robinson. Is it okay if I keep driving you or should I let you out so you can walk? Jack bursts out laughing. So does Smith.
You remember the last time we were at a red light? Down in Florida?
New York City now, baby. We've come a long way.
And we got a long way to go. The light turns green. Off they go.
Branch Rickey cannot afford to upset team chemistry and so the only thing keeping Robinson off the Dodgers now, plainly, is the attitude of the players. INSERT: Brooklyn. April 9, 1947.
If it softens at the sight of Jackie's skills, he'll join the club some time between April 10 and April 15. Otherwise, Robinson will spend the year back in Montreal.  For the love of Pete, he batted .625 in the exhibition games against them, us, them -- Against us! Judas Priest! Rickey flummoxed as the phone RINGS from the outer office.
Maybe you could have Durocher hold a press conference. Demand that he get Robinson on his team.
Durocher. Of course, he's my ace in the hole. Very good, Harold. The phone still rings. Rickey looks to his open door.
Jane Ann! Are you out there? Grumbling, brambly eyebrows twitching, he makes the mistake of answering his own phone.
Branch Rickey... You're speaking to him... The Commissioner of what..? Oh, yes put him on.  The commissioner of baseball.
Branch, how are you?
Fine. What can I do for you, Happy?
Branch, how would you feel about losing Durocher for a year? Rickey switches the phone from one ear to the other.
I'm sorry, Happy, I thought you said lose Durocher for a year.
Yes. He was seen in Havana with known gamblers.
Anyone who sets foot in Havana is seen with known gamblers.
It's not just one thing, it's an accumulation. I received notice today from the Catholic Youth Organization. Vowing a ban on baseball unless Durocher is punished for his moral looseness.
You're joking.
It's this business with the actress in California. She's recently divorced and Durocher is the cause. They may even be illegally married.
Now I'm sure you're joking. Happy checks his nails, returns his hand to the MANICURIST.
I wish I were. The CYO buy a lot of tickets, Branch. They draw a lot of water and I can't afford to ruffle their feathers. Am I mixing metaphors there?
You know very well my organization is about to enter a tempest. I need Durocher at the rudder. He's the only man who can handle this much trouble, who loves it in fact. You're chopping off my right hand!
I have no choice. I'm going to have to sit your manager, Branch. Leo Durocher is suspended from baseball for a year.
You can't do that! Happy, you son of a bitch! DIAL TONE. Rickey steadies himself, looks to Parrott.
Trouble ahead, Harold. Trouble.
Hello?
Mr. Robinson, this is Jane Ann in Mr. Rickey's office. He needs to see you right away. He has a contract for you to sign. That wakes him up.
I'm so sorry about the rush. Events are unfolding too fast to keep up with. The burden has finally fallen to me and so be it.
Yes, yes. As Jack poises the pen -- Rickey suddenly aghast.
Stop! The pen a millimeter over the page.
History. And I'm blabbing, blabbing through history... Rushing it along. What am I thinking?
Jane Ann, come in here.  Harold! Parrott sticks his head out from an office down the hall.
Get some employees up here!
Harold, telegram the press. Say this: The Brooklyn Dodgers today purchased the contract of Jackie Robinson from the Montreal Royals. He will report immediately. As Jack takes it in, he's the only one not smiling.
Hello?
Rae, I'm in Brooklyn. Brooklyn... Rachel lets out a triumphant WHOOP!
What did I tell you?
I love you... As he closes his eyes, absorbs it...
Opening day nerves. Doing my stomach something awful. Jack nods in commiseration. It's awkward between them. A RUMBLE as a GARBAGE TRUCK goes by.
There goes another one.
Know when I first heard of you?
No I don't.
On a troop transport, coming back from Guam. A sailor heard it on the radio, told me the Dodgers had signed a Negro player. I said that was fine by me. Then he said the guy was a shortstop. Least you were then. That got me thinking. Thinking gets me scared. Jack smiles, hefts his bottle of Pepto.
Black, white, we're both pink today, huh?
 Of garbage trucks? Terrified.
I'm Hermanski. Welcome to Brooklyn.
Hey, man. Ralph Branca. Last, but not least, Spider Jorgensen, his Montreal teammate.
We made it, Jack, huh? Good luck. That's it. Everyone else is too busy to come over. As Jack scans for a locker with his name on it, BABE HAMBURGER, the clubhouse manager, steps over.
You're looking for your locker, huh, kid? Follow me. They walk over to a hook on the wall. A uniform hangs from it. A FOLDING CHAIR below.
I just got the word. Best I could do. I'll get you straightened out tomorrow though, huh? Jack nods, unbuttoning his shirt... Stanky is suddenly there. All pugnacity as he gives up 4 inches and 40 pounds to Jack.
You're putting on that uniform, it means you're on my team. But before I play with you I want you to know how I feel about it. I want you to know I don't like it. I want you to know I don't like you. Jack regards him. Stanky doesn't flinch. Maybe he should.
That's fine. That's how I prefer it. Right out in the open.
C'mon, Brooklyn! Get your Harry M. Stevens special here! As he hands one over, gets his .20 cents in return. Then:
Hey, Lady! Rachel looks over, baby Jackie in her arms. The vendor takes a baby bottle out of the hot water in his STEAMER.
I think it's ready.
Okay, okay, that's good. As Jackie's eyes find hers...
O'er the land of the free! And the home of the brave!
You're crazy standing that close to him.
What do you mean?
You got a serious problem, Bragan, you know that?
Really? I don't see it.
Opening day, Harold. The world is all future and no past.
A blank page, sir.
One out in the bottom of the first. Headed toward the plate for his first big league at bat is Dodger rookie Jackie Robinson. Jackie is very definitely brunette.
We're with you, Jackie!
Hey, boy, how about a shine?! Jack struggles not to look back at the source of the jeer. He settles in at the plate. JOHNNY SAIN on the mound waiting for the sign. The crowd BUZZING.
Sain looking in. When he's got that fastball working, he can toss a lamb chop past a hungry wolf. The BRAVES CATCHER signals 1'. Here come the pitch. CRACK! It's down the third base line. The THIRD BASEMAN is going to need every ounce of his arm as he fields it at the line, throw across his body to -- FIRST. Where Jack's foot hits the bag an instant before the ball smacks into the first baseman's mitt.
You're out! Jack can't believe it. As he trots toward the dugout he looks at the umpire who looks back: I dare you to complain.
As the Brooklyn faithful BOO the call, Rachel and Smith watch Jack head decisively toward the dugout. He was safe. Rickey sits down closer to the dugout.
It's a game of inches, Jackie!
Get some glasses, ump!
How's Florida, Burt?
Roses need pruning, but fine when I left it last night. Branch said it was important and I heard about Leo. Any idea what this is about?
You'd better just talk to him. A beat as they reach the door. Parrott knocks.
Come in!
Baseball has returned to Brooklyn, Burt. Another season is underway.
Yeah, it's a shame about Leo.
Inevitable I suppose. I asked him if she was worth it and he said yes. How's the retirement?
It's fine. The roses --
It's a helluva thing when a man has good health and enough money and absolutely nothing to do.
I'm perfectly happy.
Is that so?
When I took off that Cleveland uniform two years ago, I promised the Mrs. I'd never put on another uniform again. Roses look great and I sleep a whole lot better.
Roses and sleep are two wonderful things, Burt. But sleep you can get inside your casket and flowers look good on top of it. You don't look like a dead man to me.
What's this about, Branch?
I need you to manage the Dodgers. We're a ship without a captain; there's a typhoon ahead.
No, I'm sorry, but no.
Do you miss the game, Burt? Look me in the eye and tell me you don't. Shotton considers Rickey a beat and then looks away.
Baseball's the only life for an old pepper pot like me, but I promised my wife, Branch.
You promised her you wouldn't put on another uniform. You didn't promise her you wouldn't manage. Wear a suit and tie; Connie Mack still does.
Branch, I --
You remember what the peanuts smell like roasting, how the crack of the bat sounds, the roar of the crowd?
Sure... Rickey tosses him a set of car keys.
My car's parked right out front. Harold will show you where. Now what do you say?
Okay.
Men, I don't have much to say. Just, don't be afraid of old Burt Shotton as a manager. You can win the pennant in spite of me. I can not possibly hurt you. The Dodgers trade looks. Not exactly inspirational. As Shotton heads out he pauses by Jack.
Are you Robinson?
Mark my words and circle this date. Negroes are going to run the white man straight out of baseball. I'm not prejudiced; it's physiological. They have a longer heel bone. Gives em an unfair speed advantage.
Here's Robinson. Jackie holds that club down by the end. Rear foot on the back line of the box. Slight open stance, bent at the knees... Giants pitcher DAVE KOSLO goes into his wind-up and throws. Jack swings. CRACK. The ball screams out to left. Home run! The crowd goes crazy. This is what they came to see.
Was that because his heels are longer, Bob?! As everyone cracks up, everyone but Bob...
I'm not complaining, I just, I don't know what they want.
And me? I'm just young and scared and amazed at how brave you are. He grins at her, almost gets a forkful in when LAWSON BOWMAN, the Black owner, pulls up a chair, shakes Jack's hand.
I'm Lawson Bowman, Jack, the owner of this joint. How's the steak?
I'm not sure yet. It looks good.
You're lucky you're a boy. DOORWAY - Dressed to go, Rachel holding the baby, looking anxiously out on the street. Suddenly, ALICE the baby-sitter is there. Here she comes up the steps, opens the door.
Sorry I'm late. Class ran long.
It's okay. Rachel gently hands the baby over.
It's so cold and raw out, I don't want him getting sick at the game.
He'll be nice and warm here.
 I'm going to be late. She kisses him goodbye, frowns as she heads outside --
The sky's are leaden. Threatening. Eddie Stanky safe at first as Robinson steps to the plate.
The sky's are leaden. Threatening. Eddie Stanky safe at first as Robinson steps to the plate. Jack walk to the plate, digs a cleat into the batter's box...
Hey! Hey you black Nigger! Jack looks to the visitor's dugout where the Phillies Alabama- born manager BEN CHAPMAN stands at the top of the steps.
Why don't you go back to the cotton fields where you belong!
Or did you swing your way out of the jungle?! Bring me a banana!
Chapman the Phillies manager up on the top step, seems to be chirping something out to Robinson. Chapman a hothead during his playing days with the Yankees.
What's he saying?
Bojangles! You sure can dance, snowflake!
On first, mouth hanging open. Almost forgets to take a lead. It's an instant Rorschach test.
Shotton and the players look stricken. Even Walker doesn't quite know what to make of it. No one enjoys it, but Higbe.
CONCESSION MEN walk closer to listen. The fans range from horrified to some mildly pleased. Rachel looks stricken.
A fastball inside. He leaps back again. This one was even closer to hitting him. As Jack glares at Dutch...
Ball two!
Hey, black boy! Hey, shoe shine!
You like white girls?! Huh?! Which one of them Dodger boys' wives are you climbing on tonight?! Chapman looks toward...
They don't like that one.
Oh, I think I got it. Dixie, I believe I know!
Grips the bat. Watches for the next pitch with bloody mindedness. He hacks at it, lofts a routine fly into left. He's about halfway down to first when the left fielder catches it and Jack can mercifully return to the dugout.
 Look at me, baby. Look at me. Finally, Jack glances up to her. She offers her eyes: I'm with you. He looks away. Her witnessing makes it worse.
Spider Jorgensen takes a lead off first. At the plate, Stanky lines a single to right. Jorgensen holds at second.
Steps to the batter's box, starts digging in that back foot.
As Chapman emerges with his two bench players.
Hey, Pee Wee! Dixie! What's this Nigger doing for you all to let him drink from the same water fountain as you?! I hope it's worth it!
Waiting for the pitch. Takes a mighty swing -- CRACKS a towering POP-UP between home plate and the mound. Dutch watches his catcher Seminick settle under it. Waiting.
Hey, is that a home run!?
Yeah! If you're playing in an elevator shaft! Jack veers off the first baseline. Heads for the dugout.
You don't belong! Look in a mirror! This is a white man's game. Get it through your thick monkey skull! Jack stops short looks at him. Chapman stands his ground.
Stands, watches. Praying this doesn't go south. As Jack finally continues on, Rickey closes his eyes in relief.
Sick for her husband.
Jack stalks down past the team. No one looks at him. Bragan is ashamed. Dixie tries to look disinterested. Stanky and Reese exchange a helpless glance as Jack continues into:
To hell with this. The next white son of a bitch who opens his mouth, I'll smash his goddamn teeth in. Rickey stands there until finally, opening his mouth...
You can't, Jackie. You know it.
I'm supposed to let this go on?
These men have to live with
I have to live with myself, too! And right now I'm living a sermon out there. I'm through with it! Jack is at the end of his rope. All Rickey has are words.
You don't matter right now, Jack. You're in this thing. You don't have the right to pull out from the backing of people who believe in you, respect you and who need you.
Is that so?
If you fight, they won't say Chapman forced you to; they'll just say that you're over your head. That you belong where you are.
That every downtrodden man who wants more from life is over his head. Jack's either going to explode or break into tears.
Do you know what it's like, having someone do this to you?!
No. You do. You're the one living the sermon. In the wilderness. Forty days. All of it. Only you.
And not a damn thing I can do about it.
Of course there is! You can stand up and hit! You can get on base and you can score! You can win this game for us! We need you as well! Everyone needs you.  You're medicine, Jack. Rickey reaches out, touches the wall to stay standing. Jack just breathes as familiar sounds reverb down the tunnel.
They're taking the field.
Who's playing first? Jack considers him. Everything hangs in the balance. Then:
I'm gonna need a new bat. As Jack heads back down the tunnel for the field.
Hey, black Nigger! I know you can hear me! If you were a white boy, you know where you'd be right now?! On a bus headed down to Newport News cuz you can't play for shit! Here comes the pitch. Jack nonchalantly sticks his bat out, pokes a soft hit past second. A nothing hit, but he's standing on first. And he looks, well, ferocious in fact. As Pete Reiser steps up into the batter's box... Jack stares at Dutch Leonard. Assassin's eyes as he takes an insolent, in-your-face lead off first. Dutch fires to first. Jack dives back safe! Back on his feet, he spits out a piece of grit he picked up sliding back on his belly. Not bothering to dust himself off, he's turning into something elemental before our eyes.
Two strikes now to Reiser as Leonard looks in. Robinson with another big lead off first. He's as restless as a cat with a hot foot.
Steal it, sweetheart. Take it.
I'm sorry. I want you to know what goes on here, it don't go for me. Jack barely nods, but he heard.
Hermanski steps up.
Dutch looking to third, nodding distracted at a sign, looking back to third before... Hermanski cracks a single to left. As Jack crosses the plate, he stares down Chapman on his way to the dugout. As Chapman turns his head, spits --
You fellas are making too big a deal out of this. He scored We lost. One to nothing.
Do you think you were a little hard on Robinson?
We treat him the same way we do Hank Greenburg except we call Hank a kike instead of a coon. When we play exhibitions against the Yankees, we call DiMaggio the Wop. They laugh at it. No harm, it's forgotten after the game ends. Chapman tosses away his beer can.
Don't you think this was maybe one foot over the line?
Hey. Let's get the chips off our shoulders and play ball. It's a game, right?
I'm going in that Phillie dugout tomorrow and wring Chapman's neck! Rickey considers Parrott, starts laughing. Parrott is hurt.
Did I say something funny?
When I first told you about Jackie, you were against it. Now all of a sudden you're worrying about him. How do you suppose that happened?
Well, any decent minded person --
Sympathy, Harold, is a Greek word. It means to suffer. I sympathize with you means I suffer with you. This Philadelphia manager has done me a service.
A service?!
Is there an echo in here? Yes, he's creating sympathy on Jackie's behalf. Philadelphia by the way is Greek for brotherly love. The intercom BUZZES.
Bob Bragan to see you, Mr. Rickey.
What do you want, Bragan?
I'd like not to be traded, sir, if it isn't too late.
What about Robinson? Bragan's been staring at the floor. He looks up now. The low afternoon sun hits his face.
I'd like to be his teammate.
Why?
The world's changing; I guess I can live with the change.
Thank you, Mr. Rickey. Bragan leaves. Rickey looks at Parrott: What do you know?'
You shouldn't have waited.
They haven't made a day long enough that I wouldn't wait for you.
Give these boys time. It's a three game series. A beat between them, framed by the steel girders around them.
I don't care if they like me; I didn't come here to make friends. I don't even care if they respect me. I know who I am; I got enough respect for myself. But I do not want them to beat me.
They are never going to beat you.
They're taking their best shot. I don't want you coming tomorrow. I don't want you to watch that, them beating me.
Wherever you are, I am, too. Look at me. Jack... He looks over. It's not easy for this most proud of men.
I have to watch. So our hearts don't break... Plus I already bought a scorecard. She holds it up. His name the only one filled in.
And I put your name on it. See? Jack Robinson. He puts his hand out, takes hers.
I did good the day I met you.
Baby, you hit a home run.
Hey, porch monkey! Hey Robinson! Hey boy! You know why you're here?
On the bench. Without warning, he blasts off it. MOVE WITH him as he marches toward Chapman who doesn't see him coming.
You're here to draw those Nigger dollars at the gate for Rickey!
Sit down. Sit down or I'll sit you down.
What's the problem, Stank?
You're the problem, you goddamn disgrace! What kind of man are you?! You know he can't fight! Pick on someone who can fight!
Okay, okay. Jesus. As Chapman disappears into his dugout, Jack whacks a single.
Robinson on first, Pete Reiser at bat. Reiser belts it. A long one. Deep into left center. Back goes Ennis who is not tall enough. This one's off the wall. Robinson is going to score from first. Over Barber: a CRACK of the bat, the ROAR of the crowd. As players around him react, Stanky finally looks up as Robinson crosses the plate, heads in, sits a few feet from Stanky.
Thanks.
For what? You're on my team. What the hell am I supposed to do?
Lord, make me an instrument of your peace. Where there is hatred, let me sow love. Where there is injury, let me sow pardon. Where there is darkness, let me sow light. Amens'. We see Rickey sits in the back row, the day heavy on him. A YOUNG GIRL turns, looks at him. Why's a white man here? Rickey smiles, puts a finger to his lips... Shhhh.
I speak my mind and they trade me! This ain't the America I know! He glares down to Jack's locker. Jack regards him back. It's Higbe who looks away first. He continues packing.
Where are they sending you, Hig?
Pittsburgh! For cash and some I- talian outfielder named Gionfriddo!
Pittsburgh...
Do you remember the story, Burt, of the 99 sheep? How one was missing?
If you're talking about Dixie, I'd leave the word sheep out of it.
I find myself at odds. I want integration and the pennant. I want to punish Dixie and at the same time I want his salvation.
Can't he just be a good ballplayer? He has to be a good person, too?
It would be so much simpler if he wasn't batting .385. As Walker finishes, he passes Jack whose turn it is.
She's all yours, Robinson. As THUNDER rumbles in the distance...
The news isn't good, sir.
Nevertheless it must be accepted calmly, Harold. What is it? A headline: PLAYERS STRIKE. Parrott reads...
A National League players' strike instigated by some of the St. Louis Cardinals against the presence of Negro first baseman Jackie Robinson has been averted temporarily and perhaps permanently quashed.
Madness! What are they thinking?!
Eddie, what's all this talk about your Cardinals refusing to play?
We're here, aren't we? We didn't come to New York to go to Macy's. Dyer continues past him. Here comes big JOE GARAGIOLA.
Hey, Garagiola --
Get lost. Here comes STAN MUSIAL, a class act if there ever was one.
Hey, Stan, what's the story?
This is big league baseball, not English tea. Couple a guys might've popped off; it's hot air.
St. Louis didn't win the world championship last year without using their heads. They have the same heads this year and should know that they can't pick the players of another club.
National League President Frick says this is America and baseball is America's game. He says one citizen has as much right to play as another.
Why are you doing this, Mr. Rickey?
Because my job is to win. I have an obligation to Brooklyn to put the best team on the field I can. Your presence on the roster increases our chances of winning. Not buying it, Jack looks over at him.
If this is winning, I'd hate to see us on a losing streak.
Listen to this: Right now Robinson is the loneliest man I have ever seen in sports.
Lonely? I say its the best game face in the world.
So long as he showers lonely, he can have whatever face he wants.
Watch this guy! He can't hit! Especially the curve! He can only get on base bunting! As Jack digs into the box.
Take your time, Robinson, you're digging your own grave. Big RED MUNGER looks in for the sign. Garagiola flashes a sign: 1'. Wants it inside. Here's the pitch. Inside. Jack just scoots back.
Takes a fastball in on the hands. Robinson, who is pitched to a great deal that way, uses a thicker handle bat than most hitters, just because he hits a lot of balls out on his hands.
What's your average, Joe?
It'd be a lot higher than yours, if I could run as fast as you can.
No matter how fast you run, you'll never hit as much as you weigh. Garagiola signals for another fastball.
C'mon, Munger! Boy's got a hole in his bat! Munger throws inside. Jack falls back, strokes a double into the gap.
That one wasn't quite in' enough. Robinson punishing the Redbirds with a smart piece of hitting.
Oh Jack...
What is it, Rae?
Nothing. It's just, sometimes when I sit up there with those bastards, those loudmouths in the stands, I know you can hear them.
Don't worry. It's okay.
No, it's not okay. And I can hear them, too. Jack looks at her, takes her hand in his.
I know. I'm sorry for that. Rachel squeezes his hand back.
We're in it together. When they start in on you, you know what I do? I try to sit up as straight.
Yeah?
Straight as I can.
I got it in my head that I can block it from you, some of it, if I sit up straight.  Isn't that dumb? Closing the space between them, he takes her hand.
It worked. I didn't hear a thing. She tries to smiles. As the tears streak her cheeks, he leans in kisses her forehead.
They're just ignorant.
If they knew you, they'd be ashamed. She puts her arm around him, draws that strength.
Hold on.
I am holding on.
Long as we hold on, it'll be okay.
You look lovely, Mrs. Robinson.
Thank you.
I don't know how you do it. Every day, from the 1st to the 9th. Myself? I could pay $100 for a suit and in twenty minutes I'd look like I fell out of bed. Even my shoes look rumpled. They watch Jack crack one high off the Schaefer Beer sign.
I used to think Jack was conceited.
Is that so?
It was the very first thing I noticed about him.
How did you two meet?
I saw him at a UCLA football game. Even in uniform with a helmet on, his vanity was awful. It was the way he held his hands on his hips. I hated him!
Trying to catch her in a race. She was the fastest girl in town. Beautiful legs. I finally caught up; we've been together ever since. They sit a moment. Below: Jack nails another one.
I wanted to apologize to you.
For what?
Everything. I can't apologize to him. He and I both knew what we were getting into. But you. A newlywed, trying to blossom a marriage under all this pressure.
Don't worry about me. Or us. We know who we are. Crack. Jack hits another.
Your husband has humbled me. When this all began I thought I was changing the world and that Jackie was my instrument. Can you imagine? I wish I could help him, but I'm just a spectator.
You help him plenty. Believe me. They watch him rip into another pitch.
Is he able to get things off his chest? So he doesn't burn up?
Yes. I have to let him have that silence at first, let him come to me. But he opens up eventually.
Good. It's too much to carry inside. Does he have any friends on the team?  They're spectators, too. They do admire him though. Rachel looks out to where Reese and Stanky play catch.
Do you think so?
Even the worst of us recognizes courage. Moral courage especially. I have to think they see it. Jackie's a man on trial. He's responding with glory and grace. No one can take their eyes off him.
He's had himself on trial since the day I met him. No man is harder on himself or gets to himself worse than Jack. But I hope his team- mates know, they're on trial too.
I suppose we all are. You're an astute woman, Mrs. Robinson.
If I'd met you first, I wouldn't have looked so long for Jackie.
How do you mean?
I mean if he was good enough for you, he's certainly good enough for the rest of us.
Branch, it's Herb.
What can I do for you, Herb?
How long have we known each other?
Twenty years. Maybe more.
Then trust me when I say, Brooklyn's due here tomorrow, but you can not bring that Nigger down here with the rest of your team. Rickey grits his teeth, stays civil.
And why's that, Herb? His name's Jackie Robinson by the way.
We're just not ready for this sort of thing in Philadelphia.
I'm not sure we'll be able to take the field against your team if that boy is in uniform.
Herbert, what your team does is your decision. But my team is coming to Philadelphia. With Robinson. If we have to claim the game as a forfeit, we will. That's 9-0 in case you forgot.
Branch, you've got one helluva hair across your ass on this thing and I, for one, would like to know what you're trying to prove?
Do you think God likes baseball? I do.
What the hell does that mean?
It means you're going to meet God one day, Herb, and when he inquires why Robinson wasn't on the field in Philadelphia and you answer because he was a Negro, it may not be a sufficient reply. As Rickey hangs up the phone...
Come on, fellas! We have twenty minutes to check in and then get to Shibe! Chop chop. No one is listening as the TEAM DRIVER opens the lower compartment and the players  grab their bags.
Out! Get that bus out of here! The HOTEL MANAGER stalks over, flanked by HOTEL SECURITY.
We're the Dodgers. We have a reservation.
Your team's not welcome, not while you have ballclub Negroes with you.
You mean Robinson can't stay here?
I mean the entire team is refused!
We've been staying here ten years.
And you can stay away that long!
 Hold on now, let's talk about this. The Hotel Manager jerks his thumb like an umpire.
Get out! Now, grandpa!
Grandpa? Hey hold on, you! Security getting between as Shotten and the Manager go at it.
Maybe 42's got enough friends in town, we can bunk up.
What's that supposed to mean?
Nothing. It's just, I know when you can't get into a hotel, you got people's houses you can stay at.
What do you want from me, Walker?
An apology.
For turning this season into a sideshow! I'm a ballplayer; I want to play ball!
So am I! I'm here to win!
How the hell are we gonna win sleeping on the bus?!
It might do you some good the way you're swinging the bat lately.
Watch your mouth!
Watch your damn hand! And they're lunging at each other. Separated by Reese, Stanky, Branca and Bragan while other players hold off Shotton. Two fights about to break out at the same time.
Grandpa?! I'll show you grandpa! Parrott summons something deep, lets loose a shrill WHISTLE.
Fellas! Burt! Please! Take the bus to the field! Worry about the game. I'll find another hotel.
There is a great lynch mob among us; they go unhooded and work without rope.  That's you, not me.  We must remember that all this country's enemies are not beyond the frontiers of our home land.
Some Jew must've wrote that.
This doesn't look good, Ben! It makes the Phillies, look racist! You've got to do something.
Me?!
Jackie, excuse me, um, a request came in. The Phillies manager Ben Chapman, he'd like his photo taken with you. Jack pretends to sniff the air around Parrott.
You been drinking, Harold?
Mr. Rickey thinks it's a good idea. He says it'll be in every sports page in the country. An example that'll show everyone even the most hardened man can change.
Chapman hasn't changed. He's just trying to take the heat off.
Mr. Rickey says it doesn't matter if he's changed. As long as it looks like he's changed. Chapman said he'd come down here. Or meet you in the runway. As Jack slow burns...
See the ball come in slow. See the photo come in slower.
Perfect.
Jackie's been accepted in baseball and the Philadelphia organization wish him all the luck we can. I only hope in some small way our trial of fire... helped him along. Jack looks at him: Did he just say that?
How about a picture? Shake hands. Bury the hatchet?
You want a picture? Sure. Jack steps to the on-deck circle, grabs a BASEBALL BAT. Chapman's eyes widen as he starts toward him with it.
 We'll hold the bat. That way we don't have to touch skin. Chapman nods, looks relieved. A photographer hands over a bat. Chapman has two hands on the handle. Jack puts one hand on the barrel, the other stays on his hip.
Ben, I hope all your friends back home like the picture. Jack smiles as the flashbulbs go off. Chapman looks dumb.
By the dugout with Stanky, watches in disbelief.
Carl, I swear, I never thought I'd see ol' Ben eat shit like that.
 Ostermeuller, you kraut! You gotta bat, too! Don't you forget!
I'm ready, you Wop bastard!
It's gonna come right between your eyes! Like a Kamikaze!
You don't belong here! Go home to Goering and Shmelling!
Make me, you goddamn dago!
What can I do for you, Pee Wee?
Well, Mr. Rickey, it's like this, the series in Cincinnati next week.
It's an important road trip, we're only three games out of first.
Yes, sir. You know, I'm from Kentucky.
Cincinnati's nearly a home game for you.
I got this letter, sir. I guess some people aren't too happy about me playing with Robinson. Rickey is not liking where this is going; he motions for the letter, scans it, reads the highlights...
Nigger lover. Watch yourself. We will get you, carpetbagger.  Typical stuff. Reese takes the letter back, a little hurt.
It's not typical to me.
How many of these letters have you gotten, Pee Wee?
Just this. Ain't that enough? Rickey looks Reese over a moment. Pushing back his chair he steps over to a filing cabinet.
What are those?
I'll tell you what they aren't, they aren't letters from the Jackie Robinson fan club. Here -- He thrusts a sheaf of it into Reese's hands. As Reese flips through the stack of hate, reads:
Get out of baseball, or your baby boy will die.
Get out of the game or be killed. He looks at one more, reacts to the vitriol, but does not utter it. Reese looks back at Rickey, shocked.
Does Jackie know?
Of course he knows. And the FBI. They're taking a threat in Cincinnati pretty seriously. So excuse me if I'm not too shocked at you being called a carpetbagger. You should be proud of it!
We'd just like to play ball, Mr. Rickey. That's all we want to do.
I understand. I bet Jackie just wants to play ball. I bet he wishes he wasn't leading the league in hit by pitch. I bet he wishes people didn't want to kill him. But the world isn't so simple anymore. I'm not sure it ever was. We just, baseball ignored it. Now we can't.
Jack headed for first. Pee Wee out to short.
Nigger!  We don't want you here! INSERT: Crosley Field, Cincinnati, June 21, 1947.
Cincinnati fans expressing their displeasure as the Dodgers take the field. Jackie Robinson at first. The Brat Eddie Stanky at second. Spider Jorgensen at third. And the captain Pee Wee Reese at shortstop.
What's up? Now cries of CARPETBAGGER! cut through. PEE WEE, HOW CAN YOU PLAY WITH THIS BLACK BASTARD!? Reese stares up at the worst hecklers along the first base line. He looks a little sad.
They can say what they want; we're here to play baseball.
Just a bunch of crackpots still fighting the Civil War.
Hell, we'd a won that son of a gun if the cornstalks had held out. We just ran out of ammunition. Jack laughs. Reese has a funny way of saying it.
Better luck next time, Pee Wee. Reese impulsively puts his arm around Jack's shoulder, stares into the Cincy dugout.
Ain't gonna be a next time. All we got is right now. This right here. Know what I mean? Walker reacting out in right. The crowd shuts down, some in shock at the gesture. Jack surprised also.
Thank you, Jackie.
What're you thanking me for?
I've got family here from Louisville. Up there somewhere. I need em to know who I am.
Robinson and Reese conferring at first. Maybe discussing an infield shift on Baumholtz.
Hey! Number one! You playing ball or socializing?
Playing ball, ump! Playing ball!
 You ever write about white guys in your paper? I mean, if I threw a no hitter and Jackie got a base hit, what would the headline be?
Jackie leads Dodgers to victory. Again. Under that: white Italian guy does ok. They all laugh.
I'd call your folks for ya, Ralph. Tell em how you did.
No problem. It'll still make the Post. They play their hands as they talk.
We are on some kind of winning streak, huh boys? And I don't mean cards.
Hey, maybe forty of our last fifty.
Thirty-two and fifteen actually. Since the 4th of July.
Math is why I throw a baseball for a living.
This next series against the Cardinals, it's a big one. They look over at Jack who hasn't said a word. It's his play. He lays his cards down. Deadpan as he wins the hand.
Gin.
The top of the 11th inning, all tied at 2. For those of you just tuning in, how did we get here?
It's been double trouble as Robinson knocked in Stanky with a double in the third...
...And Dixie Walker did the same with a double in the eighth.
It wasn't enough as the Cardinals tied it with two of their own in the top of the ninth. This game is crucial to the Red Birds. They're five games out, the Dodgers having not relinquished first place sine June 30th. Casey throws a pitch. Inside, a ball. INSERT: August 20, 1947. Brooklyn.
Slaughter takes ball one low. Casey in his second inning of relief. This game is tighter than a new pair of shoes on a rainy day. Slaughter hitless in four trips as Casey goes into his wind-up. Slaughter swings, hits a hard ground ball right at Reese who fires over to Jack at first. Slaughter is out by fifteen feet, but he never slows down. And his foot comes down -- -- High on Jack's right calf. Slaughter's spiked him something wicked. Jack goes down in a heap clutching his leg, blood already seeping through his high socks. Slaughter, head down, on his way to the visitor's dugout as Dodger players pour out of their own to protest. As the UMP raises his hands, motions them all back... Jack pulls up his sock, a bloody mess. Stanky looks to Casey.
Next batter, throw right at his head. Clean his clock --
The top of the 12th and Kurowski at the plate. He hit his 20th home run on Monday so Casey's going to want to be careful with him. The pitch grooves in and Kurowski nails it.
Oh dear. There goes number 21.
He rounds hard, returns to the bag. Reiser stepping up to the plate as Musial holds Jack on at first. Jack in a fury.
I don't care what happens, I don't care what kind of play it is, when I get to second I'm gonna knock someone into centerfield.
 I don't blame you, man, you got every right. Jack running on the pitch. Reiser bunts. The play is to first. Reiser is out and Jack slides safe into second. SCHOENDIENST has the sense to vacate before he gets there.
Bouncing up and down, wearing that badge of potential violence and action. The crowd buzzing, the electricity practically hits you in the face. Jack's going to score.
Coming up out of his seat along with the fans around him.
Walker at bat. Jack steps out, checks on MARION the shortstop. He takes another step out, looks to Schoendienst.
 Munger sets. Robbie back and forth off second. The third bag clearly in his sights. Oh, and Munger deals a pick off throw to Marion at second and Robinson is out! Marion breaks for the bag and Munger turns and fires a strike. Marion brings down the tag -- Out! He is and he knows it. The crowd stunned into silence. Jack frozen a moment, head down, furious with himself. Low.
The Cardinals pick up a game. It was one of those plays where you do or you don't and Jackie didn't.
Did he spike you on purpose?
You saw the play. I had my foot inside the bag. He was out by a mile. But he kept coming.
Slaughter said it was an accident.
What are you asking me for then?
Are you calling Slaughter a liar?
Get out. Let me talk to my first baseman. Go. He's getting stitched up for Pete's sake. The reporters move off for other interviews. Reporter Two hesitant to let it go, finally drifts off. Rickey watches.
Sticking up for yourself is what you'd expect of any man. Some find it galling to see it in a Negro.
I'm sorry, Mr. Rickey.
Sorry? Sorry for what?
I lost my cool out there. It probably cost us the game.
I told you, Jackie, all the best base runners get caught sometimes.
I wasn't thinking. Rickey pulls up a chair sits across from him, leans in.
Do you know what I saw this morning? I was passing a sandlot and a little white boy was up to bat. You know what he was doing?
Sitting on a fastball?
He was pretending he was you. Wiping his hands on his pants, swinging with his arms outstretched like you do. A little white boy pretending he was a black man.
Why are you doing this, Mr. Rickey?
We had victory over fascism in Germany; it's time for victory over racism at home.
Why are you doing this? Come on now. A long moment between them. Finally, Rickey looks away.
I love this game. I love baseball. I've given my life to it. Forty odd years ago I was a player coach at Ohio Wesleyan University. We had a Negro catcher, best hitter on the team. Charley Thomas. Rickey starts slowly rubbing the baseball in his hands.
A fine young man. I saw him laid low. Broken because of the color of his skin and I didn't do enough to help. I told myself I did, but I didn't. The game I loved had something unfair at the heart of it. I ignored it. But a time came when I could no longer do that.
You're welcome.
You're a force of nature, Jackie, you've complicated everything but yourself. You're changing the world, and refusing to let it change you. I for one am in awe. Jack reaches, takes the baseball from him. A beat as they consider each other. Finally, a promise...
I won't get picked off second base again. Not this year.
It's pop's last long road trip of the year, little man.
Careful you don't wake him.
I know. I won't.
I don't like seeing you leave, that's all. He looks at her a beat, resumes packing...
I'll be home in a week.
Eleven days. That's a long time without you. He doesn't answer, packs away. Finally:
Try not to lunge at the plate.
Seriously?
That's why they're throwing the fastballs inside. He looks at her, a little shocked.
Fight those inside fastballs off, foul them back. Sooner or later they won't be able to help but throw a curve. He steps to the bed, leans over her.
And what'll happen then? She clucks a 'hit' sound, makes an 'ahhhhhh' crowd sound.
We win enough of these next games and we'll bring home the pennant.
Pennant? Where are we going to put a pennant? All these baby diapers hanging everywhere. Jack looks around the room, at the diapers hanging.
We got room right over there. Between number one and number two. She mock grimaces at his bad joke.
Win one if you have to, but bring yourself home; that'll be plenty. They kiss.
Rae, you're in my heart.
Promise me you'll come home. That you'll always come home. As he looks at all he loves in the world...
I promise.
2 on 2 out for the Cardinals in the eighth. Anxious moments now as they've cut the Dodger lead to 2. Nippy Jones up. Musial taking his place on deck. Jones likes to punch that ball when he swings. Insert: September 13, 1947. Casey on the mound receives the ball. Pounds his glove.
Come on, Casey, get him out! Pitch that ball!
The outfield is deep, shaded toward left. Robinson holding the runner on first. Here comes Casey with the pitch -- Jones swings, pops it up.
It's popped up foul toward first. Should be out of play. But here comes Robinson, he's coming hard --
He's got it! And one of the Dodgers has him!
The Dodgers closing in on the Pennant as they'll leave St. Louis for Cincinnati and a three game series with the Reds. Jack sits in his grass stained pants after the game. Most of the guys are in the shower. Branca, a towel around his waist, is headed there himself. The sight of Jack stops him.
Can I ask you something, Jackie? How come you never shower until everyone else is done? Jack just stares at him. Branca won't let it drop.
You shy or something?
I don't want to make anyone uncomfortable.
We're a team. On a hot streak. Half the wins on account of you. You're the bravest guy I ever saw. You're leading us and you're afraid to take a shower? A beat as Jack considers him. Stone-faced.
C'mon. Take a shower with me.
Rickey here.
We did it, Boss! We did it! We swept Cincinnati! That puts us seven games up. Joyous, Rickey grabs a sheet showing the NL standings.
And eliminates the Giants and Boston. He puts an X' through Boston and the Giants. The rest of the NL are already crossed out. Only the Cardinals remain. At the same time, Parrott X's the same out on his notebook.
We'd have to lose nearly every game for the Cardinals to catch us now. One more win may do it. Who's pitching tomorrow for the Pirates?
Ostermueller.
A very big game today here in Pittsburgh. A win and the Dodgers will have clinched the National League Pennant.
Fritz Ostermueller on the mound. He's 12 and 8 on the season.
You don't belong! You'll never belong! Jack waits. Ostermueller pitches.
Here comes the pitch and Robinson takes outside. Ball one.
Ostermueller winds and throws, low and away ball two. Fritz seems to be pitching around Jackie. Or trying to get him to chase.
Come on. Throw him a strike.
3 and 0 now. Robinson waiting on something he can swing on. As catcher Kluttz throws it back...
Give me something I can hit!
You want it?!
That is a deep fly ball to left. Kiner on his horse, but I don't think he'll get there.
Back, back, back and oh doctor! Robinson got his pitch!
Pittsburgh...
I'm home.
Safe.
Stay just like that. She kisses him. And kisses him. And he kisses her back. As they finally head inside, we let them go. And as we're left looking down the street, a crawl begins:
