Don't give up.
I never do.
May I?
You work with your hands, don't you?
 Redhead.
Luther. (as Luther hands him a videotape) Your life would be a whole lot simpler if you could learn to operate a V.C.R.
My only failing.
 It's okay -- I told him I was sick -- anyway, he's gone -- relax...
 You fucking bastard.
 You little whore --
Kill her?
No choice in the matter.
Jesus, Tim, what did we do?
 No choice in the matter.
 Do you realize what a shitstorm we're in?  Go on -- tell me.
Nothing to tell. He screamed.
And you heard no sounds of violence 'til then?
 Nothing we haven't heard before.
Maybe I should call the police now.
 Bill?     Why don't you think about that? (beat -- starting to move toward him) Take a second and just think about that. (closing in on Burton, furious) Think... real... fucking... hard.
 Probably not a good idea.
 Okay -- here's what happened tonight -- poor Christy came home alone and interrupted a burglary. That sound logical?
We're going to have to sanitize this place.  Alan, did you have sex with her?
... Don'... 'member...
Bill, you're going to have to examine her.
I'm no gynecologist.
 I just made you one.
I'll take that.
 It's got their prints on it.
 Thanks for sharing.
Gloria -- I killed her --
It's all going to be fine, Alan.
... But she's dead...
... I'll take care of everything just like I always do.  Gentlemen?
Shit.
What?
Shit!
Shit!
 I got his license number.
 Gee, guys, maybe it was the bogeyman -- don't forget to check under the bed --  -- You may have buried us! --
-- relax, I got his license number, remember? --
 -- you think he's going to just sit around waiting for us? -- Asshole --
-- take it easy, Miss Russell --
 -- everybody shut up, all right?
Oh boy...
 A two-way mirror.
-- I better get cracking on that license number --
 -- it's all we've got -- and he's got the letter opener -- blood, fingerprints -- Jesus, think what he can do --
 -- the man is a thief -- a thief who witnessed a murder -- 
 -- it looks like he stole a whole bunch of money -- I'll tell you what he's going to do.  He's going to run like hell.
Jordan beat us at the buzzer.
Bad night.
Kate.  Kate.
Probably too late for me to take it up.
The jogging.
Ahh.
Dumb way to start this, I guess.
Wanted to talk to you.
About?
Believe it or not, the weather.  Nights are starting to get cold.
That happens this time of year.
I was thinking of maybe relocating. Someplace with a kinder climate. (nothing shows on her face) I just wanted to check it out with you first...  ... you're the only family I've got.
Luther, you don't have me.
Kate --
-- you know what it's like being the only kid in show and tell who got to talk about visiting day?
This move -- I'm talking permanent, you understand.
We don't see each other anyway -- we haven't seen each other since Mom died and that's a year.  Look, you chose your life. You had that right. You were never around for me. Fine. But I have no plans to be around for you.
 -- wait a minute -- you're lying about something, aren't you? --
-- no --
-- are you active again? -- is that why you're here now?
-- no --
-- I don't believe you --  -- Christ, Father, what have you done?
Christy Sullivan?
 Wife of Walter -- most likely came home and stumbled onto a burglary --
-- some burglary.
I wish my carpets were this clean. And I can't find a single decent                        * fingerprint.
You serious, Laura?
 It's like Mary Poppins was here.
Could someone have let him in?
Sorry, Seth, but the entire Sullivan household went to Barbados two days ago.
Thank you for your support.
Wait -- it gets worse --  -- the shots came from here. If she interrupted a burglary, she should have been here --  -- she was killed where she is -- all the blood patterns indicate that. But she was looking toward the bed -- what in hell was she looking at?
Looks like someone sat here -- but I couldn't find any prints. (lowering her voice -- indicating the one-way mirror) You think Sullivan holed up in the chair and watched his wife perform?
I hope not --  -- he's such a great man.
 Careful digging that out.
Looks like he tried to strangle her.
So he tried to strangle her, then went to the door and shot her from behind?
He also inspected her vagina.
He did what?   Why?
Maybe he couldn't remember if he fucked her.
 A strong burglar with a weak mind -- obviously another open and shut case...
Mr. Sullivan? -- I'm Seth Frank, senior homicide detective for Middleton County --
 -- my client is in no mood for conversation, sir.
It's all right, Sandy --  -- you're in charge of the case?
 I have to ask some questions, but it can be tomorrow.
You want what, positive identification? Yes, that was my wife. Anything else?
 You'd been in Barbados for two days?
 I took the entire staff down -- always do this time of year.
But Mrs. Sullivan didn't come.
She was, had it all planned, but you know women, they change their minds. 
 I'd been married to my Rebecca for forty-seven years and when she died, I decided I never wanted that pain again. One thing I knew about Christy: she was going to outlive me.
I think that's enough for today.
 I have to ask about the vault.
You mean the contents of the vault of course --  -- Sandy, you go on, I'm all right. (as Sandy looks at him a moment) Really. Go to the reception -- obviously I can't make it, but I'm sure everyone will understand.
I know it's not the contents -- (as Seth embarrassed, stands there) You mean the chair. You have to ask about the chair.
 Yessir, I do.
But why?   Are they connected?
I think someone sat in it -- and I think that someone may have been involved in the murder.  You were my father's hero, Mr. Sullivan, I promise you this won't make my highlight reel.
I'd hoped I could satisfy her... but you know... she had needs and she didn't want to go behind my back... she suggested the chair... she hoped I might get to like sitting there...  ... I didn't...  I've tried for eighty years to live a decent life. I've given a billion dollars to charity. If this comes to trial, none of that will be remembered -- I'll just go out as the joke of the world.
I understand, sir; I'll do what I can.
 Will you listen to me whine? Please forgive me, Mr. Frank. Just do your job.  And I'll do mine.
Sandy.  Is there anything I can do?
Mr. President.
Take a walk with me.
Tell me about Walter -- how is he?
Eighty and alone, Mr. President.
He understands officially my hands are tied?
Mr. President, he's touched at your concern.
Any news of the killer? (as Sandy indicates "no") Well, why isn't there? Who's in charge of the case?
Top man -- eight years homicide work in New York. But I understand how you feel -- it's hard to be patient.
 No one understands how I feel -- I'm supposed to have all this power but I can't help my oldest friend -- you know and I know that more than any man alive Walter Sullivan put me here -- and now when he most needs me, he must feel abandoned.
-- I'll hold a press conference -- and I'll have Walter come -- and I will embrace him before the world.
He'll treasure that, Mr. President. What a generous gesture. Thank you. Thank you.
 Damn tennis elbow is killing me.
 This thing's worse, Gloria. I need to see a doctor.
The country would have to be informed, Mr. President.
What happened to my right to privacy? (rolls up his sleeve, studies his cut) I think she nicked a tendon.
Burton says it's a flesh wound --
 -- when did you become such an expert, Bill? -- Ever been wounded? --
 Yes, sir. Many times.
Are you serious about that press conference, Alan?
Of course I am -- Walter's been like a father to me.
Shall I bring Mrs. Richmond home for it?
I think Mrs. Richmond's mission to help the poor in Asia should not be interrupted. (takes a breath, starts to button his shirt) We know anything yet?
We checked his license plate -- he stole the car from a police impoundment lot.
We're not dealing with a fool here. (gestures toward his jacket, as Russell helps him into it) Has he initiated contact?
Burton doesn't think he will.
I agree. (checking himself in a mirror) Sorry about my behavior -- won't happen again; think of it as a blip on the screen. And as far as I'm concerned, so is he.
He could be a little more than that, Alan -- he saw.
He saw nothing -- a drunk woman who liked rough sex too much. And he's a burglar. Who's going to believe him?  After all, it's not as if he had evidence or anything...
What happened to my right to privacy?  I think she nicked a tendon.
 You always did disappear good, Luther.
You mean I've got a weak face. Thanks, Val.
You're lucky is all -- some of my customers, they stand out no matter what.
How many passports you need?
 Four should cover it.
 Now you'll want different looks, and matching international driver's licenses -- I'll throw in some dummy credit cards, seeing it's you. How the rugs I made you holding up?
They're good. Beards and mustaches, too.
 I try to give value for money. Leaving the country permanent?
It may come to that.
Matter where you've been? -- I hate doing those goddam Asian passport stamps.
Europe's fine. Maybe the Caribbean for winters. When can I pick up?
Usually takes some time, but for you, I'll rush it.
Thanks, Val. I've always been able to count on you.
What?
I don't want to know what you're into, but leaving forever...
Finish it.
I never figured you for a runner -- thirty percent of my runners kill themselves within five years.
 Five years doesn't sound so bad to me just now.
See if any of this makes sense.
I am Christy Sullivan and I walk in and surprise a burglar.
Now you're the burglar coming out of the vault and being surprised.
Gold star. (aims his finger like a pistol) I draw my gun --
 -- then why do you bother to strangle her when you could just shoot?
That's nothing -- why do I bother to have her strip and then put her clothes back on?
There I can help you -- see, before you were a burglar you were a dry cleaner and you still love beautiful clothes.
And I dress her because?
She was a good customer and you didn't want her embarrassed when the police came.
She had a point-21 blood alcohol level. -- she was too drunk to drive. I've checked every cab and limo company in the area and not one of them knows anything. Someone drove her home. Goddamit, who? And why haven't they come forward?
Maybe whoever drove her home killed her.
You saying the burglar drove her home?  I hate this case.
Lieutenant? -- sorry to bother you  I've got your phone working again, shouldn't give you any more trouble.
Good service, thanks.
 Part of the job.
Oh yeah    -- remember that bullet hole in    the wall? Had the lab dig out the    slug -- guess what -- no slug --    why does the burglar take the time    to do that?
Different from the one in her body? 
 Oh I like that a lot -- two different guns means two different burglars. Two guys broke in? And they both went out the window? Bullshit.  And oh, by the way, why does he -- or they -- go out the window in the first place when he -- or they -- got in by breaking a zillion- dollar security system? --
-- Seth?
 What?
 A Bill Burton of the Secret Service in the parking lot.
 Here, you solve the goddam thing.  Did I mention that I hate this case? I really truly hate this case -- you cannot imagine how much I hate it --
 Bill Burton, hi --
-- hi, Seth Frank --
-- I know you must be going crazy -- but the boss is very interested in your progress. Maybe we can help each other.
What did you have in mind?
You know how close he and Sullivan are?  The minute anything breaks, if you'd call me, I'd tell the President. That way, he'd be the first to alert Mr. Sullivan -- it would mean a lot to him. And any red tape you want cut -- done. (as he takes out card) Here are my numbers.
 Leads?
Still trying to figure out what might have happened --
-- I loved playing Sherlock Holmes.
 You Secret Service guys do that?
I was State Trooper here ten years ago before the Government got me.
You're that Bill Burton.
I was younger and dumber then.  Keep in touch.
 The chef makes them especially for me -- I promise you they're sinful.
You're a salesman, Mr. Sullivan.
This is a new arena for me, but from what I'm told, you have a flawless reputation, Mister McCarty -- which is why I need to employ you.
Understood.
I have no idea who I'm after. Until I do, you will have to wait in Washington for instructions.
Out of the question, I'm afraid. (explaining as they walk) Mine isn't particularly creative work -- I only do it because I enjoy living beyond my means. I can't afford to just sit around.
When I was 10 my father died -- he was a miner and lung disease killed him. I became rich at 25 and the first thing I did was purchase that mine, close it, and give every miner there fifty thousand dollars to retire on. (beat; staring at McCarty now) You will come to Washington, Mr. McCarty. You will put one million dollars expenses into the Swiss                          * bank account of your choosing.  And, when the time comes, two million dollars a bullet.
 You are a salesman, sir.
Selling sin is easy...
 Who is he?
Luther Whitney --  -- one of the great thieves of the world.
Been going nuts with this thing, up all night and I remembered your notion how it might be two burglars, and around dawn I thought, wait, what if it wasn't two burglars but what if it was one guy trying to throw us off by making it look like two?  Called a buddy at the Bureau -- they keep track of this stuff internationally -- he says maybe only a half a dozen guys alive could have pulled off the Sullivan job -- I'm tracing all six --  -- but Whitney's the only one lives in Washington.
Why haven't I ever heard of him?
Because he hasn't been arrested in thirty years.
 This his graduation picture from Harvard?
 Ancient history -- he wasn't a jewel thief back then. Just a kid, just part of a gang, a three- time loser. But since he got out the last time, he's only worked alone -- 
 -- and no one's touched him.  He gets questioned whenever anything big comes up. But nothing sticks.
 Seth -- we can make this stick -- I'll bet you anything this is our guy -- a local? -- can't ask for more --
* We've got a problem.                                     *
-- what? --
Whitney hasn't killed anyone in 45 years.
Korea.
Big deal, so he's a veteran.
Not just a veteran -- a wounded veteran.  Got his combat record here. Battles, commendations,                                  * decorations up the kazoo.                                * Lives alone on his disability.                           * Says he does anyway.                                     * * And I don't do war heroes...                             *
 Boy, you must be smart.
 Sorry?
Usually takes a week for you guys to get to me.  You look just like your picture, Seth. I'm Luther Whitney.
So, do you want my confession now or after coffee?
 Before I send you away for life, I should probably check out your alibi.
Watched the Bullets game    with Red Bransford. Prison buddy     of mine -- runs a bar -- want to    question me about the game? I'm     probably lying.
You been following the case?
 I love true crime --
-- F.B.I. feels only a few guys could have handled something as hard as the Sullivan job.  I've got a list here; you're on it.
 I wish it was true.  Your robber actually went in the front door but came out down a rope in the dark in the middle of the night? (as Seth nods; Luther sighs) If only I could do stuff like that -- I'd be the star of my A.A.R.P. meetings.
 Luther? Why was this so hard?
You want me to help solve your case?
Just looking   for insight. How would you --   scratch that -- how would one go   about it? What kind of person do   you think I should be looking for?
 Older fella. Like me.
 Because?
Need patience. The secret is just research, research, research -- from everything I've read.
Research for what?
Well, from what I can tell on the tube, it's not a small house.  There had to be an architect, right? You'd be able to tell which one from public records in the library. And once you know the office, you could break in and find the plans and Xerox them, get them back before morning.
Not just steal them?
Seth -- breaking in isn't hard -- what's hard is breaking in so no one knows you've been there. Now, after the architect, next you'd want the contractor's office -- and the security company's office.  You know the skill involved breaking the security of a security company?  I wonder how those guys do it?
Why go to all that trouble?
Papers said he kept the money in a vault, yes?  Well, I'm guessing there was probably some secret way to open it --
 -- clicker --
 -- explain --
-- gizmo -- looked like a V.C.R. remote --
 -- amazing --  -- must have been a lot of money inside.
 Five million.
Why's that funny?
The way you said it -- as if you were trying to surprise me.
 I was trying to surprise you.
 There you go.
Would the burglar use a disguise?
Seth, you've got to get with the program you expect to catch this guy -- most likely it is a guy, am I right? Some kind of weird loner?
Maybe like you.
 I'm the perfect prototype.  But you see any face often enough, you'll start putting things together. That's why these top guys disguise themselves. I read a great article a couple of years back -- damn, I wish I could remember where -- anyway, it was about these makeup experts some of them use -- wigmakers, people like that.
 Go on about the wigmakers.
 I'd love that but I'm late as it is -- got to get my pacemaker checked.  -- all this excitement, you understand.
 A) You don't have a pacemaker, and B) I'll be back tomorrow.
Tomorrow is promised to no one.
Not 'til morning?  -- I'll be by early --
 Katie darling, you've gotta try real food sometime.
I am having this press conference here because...
... it is here, at this courthouse,                  * that Christine Sullivan's killer will be tried for his crime.
Turn that off, okay?
 In a sec.
As you know, I came from an impoverished family in an impoverished town -- but we lived with our doors unlocked.
We all lock our doors now, but that is not what concerns me...
... we are also locking our hearts... that is the sadness, that is the loss.
We are locking our hearts to the cries of the weary, we are locking our hearts to the poor and their pain...
... Sisters and brothers, we are locking our hearts to ourselves.
 Put it back on.
 You said --
 Do it --
We feel savagery and violence must be allowed a place at table.  That is wrong. That is not America. I shall fight that battle.
Dear friend, old friend, we shall fight that battle.
Who can explain the ways of chance? If we had never met, I would not be President. If Christine had not taken ill, she would be with you in Barbados                        * even now. Oh, Walter, you've                         * always been like a father to me.                     * I would give the world to lessen your pain.
You -- heartless -- prick --  -- you -- fucking -- bastard --
 I'm not running -- not from you.  I'm going to bring you down...
He was in the building -- he took a guided tour.
I've never dealt with blackmail --
 -- he doesn't want money --
 -- you a mind reader too?                               *
 No, I just looked on the back --  -- see? --
 'I don't want money.'
 This guy sure has the guts of a burglar. Wish we had him.
You finished your recruiting speech? Because I'd like to know how I handle this.
Like you handled the letter opener?
Gee, Bill, that could be construed as criticism. Do you really want me as an enemy?
Miss Russell, I should have called the police that night. But I was weak. You convinced me to stay silent. I regret that.  Know this: every time I see your face I want to rip your throat out.
Fine -- you win the pissing contest -- (then suddenly almost like a little girl) -- what should I do?
Nothing -- because he's making a terrible mistake, he thinks he has time -- he doesn't -- Seth Frank's too good. He'll bring him in.
Then what?
 Then I kill him.
 For a tough prosecutor, you don't resemble your reputation, Miss Whitney.
 Is that good or bad? 
 Look, Lieutenant -- I told you on the phone, I'm simply not involved with my father, so this may not be a waste of time for you, but it sure is for me.
What would you do if I just turned around and left?
Report you as an incompetent.
 You're exactly like your reputation, Miss Whitney --
 I'm assuming your father's a big part of you --
-- what? --
-- You think it's all coincidence? He's a thief and you just happen to be the toughest prosecutor in the area?
 Wow -- that never crossed my mind -- you think there might be some connection? -- Like maybe I'm somehow compensating? -- I better write that down.
-- Luther disappeared.
I think you can help me.
Lieutenant -- I don't know the man -- he was in jail when I was a kid, when he got out my mother and I went off to live by ourselves. We don't make contact. He doesn't care about me. I've seen him all of once this past year.
When?
Couple days ago. He said he might be going away. There. I just helped you. Can I go back to work now?
 Any idea where he might have gone?
 Quit wasting my time -- if he doesn't want you to find him, you're not going to find him.
You saying he's left town, skipped the country, what?
I'm saying you won't recognize him. I'm saying he could be just around the corner -- he always kept a safe house --
 -- where? --
He never said --
-- Then where'd you hear this?
-- my mother loved him, all right? -- Even after she left him -- even when she was dying she always talked about him -- 'If only he hadn't this,' 'if only he could have that' --
And?
I meet a lot of asshole cops like you -- guys who O.D.'d on Columbo --
-- Lady, I may be an asshole cop but you don't know me well enough to call me one --
-- There's something else, isn't there? Something you want me to do? -- But you won't say ---
How long did he live here?
Years.
Never been.
Strange place for a thief to leave a key, don't you think?
 He always did that...
He sure took off in a hurry. What scares a professional thief like that?
 ... but he wasn't at those places... (pointing to the grown-up photos) ... college graduation; law school graduation; the night Mom and I celebrated when I got a job; and me alone on the steps? -- I'd just won my first case, I was so proud...  ... I used to think... sometimes I'd come home and I'd sense he'd been in my apartment, checking the fridge, shaking his head because he never thought I ate right... It's crazy but I just knew Daddy was watching over me...
You can do a good thing, Kate --  -- help me bring him in. Just leave a message on his phone machine, you're worried about him.
... No...
It's the truth -- you are worried about him -- this isn't your normal case -- his life may be in danger -- you can save him, make the call --
... He won't come...
 Of course he'll come. You're all he has.
 Kate, he's on the run   and he's scared and he's right   to be scared because he's going to   get caught -- you don't know the   heat on this.                *
He's not a murderer.                                 *
Maybe you're right. Maybe he is                      * innocent. If so I'll have him                        * home and dry in a few hours. But                     * what happens if some hotshot who's trying to make a reputation tracks him down?  I can guarantee his safety. You make the call, I make a promise: You'll have your father, home and dry...
I left a message on his machine, he called back within an hour; we're meeting tomorrow afternoon.
Where?
An open-air place near my office, the Cafe Alonzo --
Four o'clock -- it's deserted then.
I need to look really good today.
Business? (as Luther tries the other hat -- very rakish, he likes it) It's a woman, I can tell.  Never too late, is it?
You got that right.
The Boss is very grateful. Thanks.
Figured he'd    like an eyewitness report of the    capture. This is our guy -- if    he's innocent, he sure took off    awful fast.
 Fuck...
Miss? (as she spins around) What you want please?
Nothing, thank you.
Got to.
Pardon?
 You sit you eat please.
This is not part of my brilliant master plan.
Unfuckingbelievable.
 I'm waiting for someone.
He must eat too, please.
Oh he will, we both will -- we'll order half the menu -- but just not now --
Cheesecake gone.
Thank you so much.
I did not kill that woman, Kate.
 Messy.
I like that in a woman.
Top number's local police --  -- other two are my office and home.  I live alone, too, call anytime. Want me to get someone to spend the night?
I just need some sleep.
I've got surveillance outside. And I'm keeping it on 'til this is over. I've got a feeling he's going to try and contact you.
You're on a hot streak, I guess.
Listen, I'm sorry.
Anything unusual, call me right away -- not a bother, I live alone.
You said.
 Feeble, huh?
Anything for the road?     I've got water and water.
Deal.
Pelligrino would be great. (off Kate, who can't help it, breaks out laughing) What's funny, I say it wrong?
Tired is all.
I don't think I've told you this, but I live alone. (and this time, as she does smile, and he does go) Lock it behind me.
 How's that?
Real good.    Try and sleep.
 I betrayed you, Luther. You better know that now.
You're not the first.
Why'd you come?
You have to know I'm not a murderer.
No, this afternoon. To the restaurant. Why'd you come then? You must have suspected something, or you wouldn't have been prepared.
 My daughter wanted to see me.
The robbery went fine 'til they came in. They were drunk. I hid in the vault. Sex got rough. He was going to kill Christy, but she turned the tables, was going to kill him. Two guys came in, shot her dead.
The same two guys who tried for you this afternoon?
Probably only one of them. I think Walter Sullivan might have hired the other.
Pretty powerful enemy; good going.
Not as powerful as the President of the United States.
Richmond was drunk. The two guys are Secret Service. Chief of Staff Russell planned the coverup.
Every word true.
You're saying you're innocent of the murder? Why in the world                               * should I believe you?
Because I swear on Mattie's grave.
On your mother's grave, Kate -- you know I'd kill myself before I'd lie about that.
 Jesus, Luther.
I know.
They'll kill you.
I know.
Can you run?
I was set to. At the airport. All the money I'd ever need.
But I saw that bastard using                             * Sullivan on the T.V. -- maybe I couldn't have saved that woman, Kate. But I didn't even try.  I know what you think of me and I know what we've been to each other --  -- haven't been to each other. And it's not the time to try and explain my life --
-- but I've never robbed anyone couldn't afford it and I've never stiffed a waitress.  And Alan Richmond has to pay.
What can you do?
Not much, maybe -- but I only went to jail when I had partners.  People betray each other, Kate -- nowadays, when there's a group, someone wants to write a book -- 
 -- these people hate each other. And if I can drive them just a little bit nuts, who knows how they'll react under pressure? (rises and looks at her) Glad for the talk, wish we'd had more.
This is probably it; you understand that. (as she does, he still looks at her. Then -- ) I was never going to tell you this, but I watched you argue a case last year -- thank God you got your brains from your mother.
It's dangerous outside.
It always is --  -- and I may not make you proud, Kate --  -- but I'm not going down alone...
 For Miss Gloria Russell.
 Want me to sign anything?
 I trust you.
Thanks for the rescue. AR"
 You're a vision this evening, Miss Russell.
Thank you, Mr. President.  And thank you, Mr. President.
 For? (off her, radiant, indicating the necklace) Come again?
 You sent it to me this afternoon.
Well, of course.  Excuse me, all -- I am overcome with the desire to dance with my Chief of Staff. A hand to her -- Russell, beaming, moves out onto the dance floor with him.
What is this nonsense? I'm hoping there's an explanation.
 Your gift, Alan -- I was overwhelmed -- and your note was so gratifying --
 -- I sent a note?
Yes, yes, you think I don't know your writing? I assumed you wanted me to wear it tonight.
It is lovely, Gloria -- and you know what else?
What, Alan?
Christy Sullivan wore it the night                          * she was killed.                                             *
You realize what this means? Whitney's been heard from.
It's not precisely the first time, Mr. President. The MUSIC is BUILDING TO CLIMAX now.       Their movements become more grand.
 You've been keeping things from me?
Only because you have so much on your plate, Alan; we wanted to spare you.  He sent me a Polaroid of the letter opener yesterday.
The crowd of elegant men and women, it's really wonderful dancing they're seeing -- they start to applaud.
Well, now --  -- I need time to think -- come see me in my office in the morning --  This will certainly make for an interesting chapter in my memoirs.
 What are you doing?
 Needed a pen.
 There's pens --  -- you don't trust me? --
 -- I don't answer to you, asshole
You're both assholes, now move --
 Any idea who could have forged it?
I talked to Seth Frank -- apparently Whitney learned how in prison.
Very gifted man.
And are we close to stopping him?
We're working round the clock.
Good to know that.
He'll make a mistake.
Good to know that too.
There is one other thing you'll want to take care of.
You're sure you want to do that?
 She's a young prosecutor, prosecutors ask questions -- she might know what he knows...  Let's get cracking, shall we?  Show you love your country.
 Sorry, Miss Whitney, but this thing's giving us a little trouble.
Kate okay?
Where are you?
I'm not staying on long enough for you to track this, just answer me.
She couldn't be in better hands -- talk about catching a break, Secret Service called me. They're taking over surveillance --
Got it working fine, Miss Whitney.
 ... Kate...?
Scream. Go on. Which do you want most, for me to kill you or life in jail forever?
Going to guess this wasn't to pep her up.
 ... you're not going to kill me...
... why do you think that...?
... you could have but you didn't...
That's because you didn't know your crime, prick.
 I didn't mind you tried to shoot me at the restaurant -- I wouldn't have minded if you'd nailed me at Sullivan's -- part of the job --  -- but you fucked with blood.
... mercy...
I'm fresh out.
... Daddy...?
... go to sleep, honey...
I need one answer -- when you interviewed Walter Sullivan, did he say why Christy didn't go to Barbados?
 Just that she changed her mind.  You know who did it, don't you?
So will you -- check your phones --
 -- who'd tap a police officer?
Is this a shortcut, Tommy?                              *
 I'm your replacement driver for the evening, sir. Don't worry, Tommy's fine.                                            *
Very unusual -- what do I call you?
Luther, sir.
And are you familiar with how to get to my home, Luther?
I know the way, sir -- I'm the man who robbed you --
-- and you're the man who tried to have me killed --
-- I'm sorry I missed -- I believe in the Old Testament, sir -- there is nothing wrong with an eye for an eye when a terrible deed has been done.  A deed such as yours.
You want to believe that, don't you? -- Makes your life a lot simpler if you believe that, isn't that right?  What do you think I gain being here?
Have no idea -- you going to rob me again? --
I don't need your money, Mr. Sullivan. Look in your vault lately?
 I'm afraid we're a little late for an attempt at leniency.
Shit's coming down tonight, Mr. Sullivan, do you want to be a player or not?  Do you want to know what happened, or not? I saw. Your call.
 I want to know.
Are you up to hearing about it? -- Do you want to hear how he beat the shit out of her and tried to strangle her -- you have enough left for that? --
 -- I could walk through fire --
I was in the chair when they came in. (as Sullivan says nothing) They were drunk -- at first he only wanted to bruise her -- she fought back, he went for the kill -- she turned the tables. Then he screamed for help.
Who else was in my house?
Secret Service shot her.
 Nonsense.
Gloria Russell handled the cover up.
Stop this --
-- don't you want to know who the man was?
 It was you.
We're too old to bullshit each other, Mr. Sullivan.
 Who was it then?
 You know!
You fucking well do, don't shake your head at me -- when you're alone at night, when the rage takes you and you think of what you'd do to revenge her, on those nights you put a face to your enemy.
 Stop the car --
-- we're going all the way, Walter --
-- it's too terrible.
It sure is.
... I know about Alan's reputation as a philanderer... but... he would never dream of betraying me... I gave him the Presidency.
 The press conference -- remember? -- he held you in his arms and said if only Christy hadn't gotten sick she would have been with you                     * in Barbados --                                        * 
 -- how do you think he knew she was sick? You didn't tell anybody. But he heard it, all right. He heard it from her. That night. And I heard every word --
That's not real proof.
And this?
You could have stolen this.
I did steal it. But that isn't my blood and those aren't my prints.
 I did love her, you know.
Is he working late? I haven't an appointment but I'd like to see him if I might.
You don't need an appointment, Mr. Sullivan.
... you're still here...?
Haven't budged.
Mister Sullivan, have you no idea why the President took his own life?
 I know he's been feeling the pressure of office more than ever lately. We've talked about it a great deal.
But why would he stab himself?
 That's a question that will haunt me forever. Of course I tried to stop him --  -- Alan was like a son to me...
 ... was that Seth...?
He was just checking in. When you're up to it, he said we might come over for dinner. He                                     * mentioned --                                                 *
 I know, he lives alone --                                    *
 Watch it now.
... you don't have to fuss...
You were forever catching colds.
... am I going to be all right?....
 We'll be fine.
