Congressman Norris-? Now REVEAL that we're fl: the entry hall of the Admin Building at St. Johns University. A thousand people crowd the quad out front. "Norris for Senate" placards everywhere.
Fred O'Malley with the DNC. I've never seen a crowd this big turn out so early in the cycle. CHARLIE TRAYNOR, 36, arrives--.
Just wait 'till you see how they respond to him.. David pops a cherry lozenge into his mouth and straightens his lapel pin, which is shaped like New York State.
Don't build me up like that, Charlie. He'll be disappointed.
Hi there. I'm David Norris. And I'm running for the US Senate.
The crowd goes wild.
--David shakes the hands of workers entering a .Con Edison plant in Buffalo. He's a natural at this. Unlike most politicians he actually seems to enjoy campaigning. --Flashbulbs go off as he plays a game of pick-up basketball with a group of Bronx teenagers. Charlie is nearby. --David takes a ceremonial shovel full of dirt to begin redevelopment of an old military base upstate. --He gives a speech at a Harlem church. Audiences watch David the way they watched JFK, the way they watch Obama today. He inspires, makes them believe, makes them want to follow him. Especially young people. --David walks through a suburban mall happily shaking hands as cameras follow him and citizens snap pictures with their camera-phones. People crush around him. He:doesn't seem to mind at all. He welcomes it. He feeds off it. --He pops a cherry lozenge in his mouth and climbs up onto a tractor to speak to a gathering of upstate farmers, speaking into a bullhorn to compensate for his hoarse voice. Charlie stands nearby watching him speak:.
Kids: Samantha, painting, and Ricky, Little League. John Pascal. Wife: Anna. St. John's grad. Two year old: Loyita... He stops. Knows this cold. His finger runs down to a Realtor's Association breakfast in Nassau County four days out.
What the hell? What happened to "I'm going to have softie tea, rest my voice, and go to bed early?" You have Diane Sawyer tomorrow and you have to be up at four AM for us to make it in time. David is holding ,a beer, in his left hand. With his free hand he picks up a cup and saucer.
I had some tea. (sees Charlie's not in the
Come on, man. We're eight points up in the polls. I've gotta cut loose every once in a while and have a life. This provokes a quizzical look from Charlie. Fifteen strangers in a crappy upstate Sheraton doesn't seem like having a life to him...
Ten.
What?
Latest poll has you ten points up. A slow smile spreads across David's face.
The sound of a busy room. Then one voice, much louder:
County reporting: 8901 for Lynfield, 7233 for Norris.
Eddie, call Boyd! Where the hell are the. Suffolk numbers? We've got to get the Suffolk numbers!
Congressman Norris has a reputation for being very direct, even blunt, in his campaign speeches, which is great until you say too many things you wish you hadn't. Then you start to look like an amateur.
That's bad for any candidate but it's fatal if you're running for Senate at the age of 33, your opponent keeps calling you an "impulsive kid," and you almost killed your entire political career five months ago with an act of immaturity that ended up on the front page of`.the New York Post. David winces slightly. This is excruciating. Just then Charlie enters.. The nerve center.suite is visible through the open door behind him.
Why are you still watching CNN? They called this way too early. David doesn't share his friend's optimism.
Suffolk County Numbers! Charlie and David emerge from the private room to listen.
Lynfield: 415,120. Norris:
Charlie's energy and optimism disappear instantly.
 I really thought we'd win Suffolk.
A senior aide walks over.
Kings County just came in too.
He shows a piece of paper to Charlie and David. beat...
Well, it's over. And it's going to be a blowout... David puts on a brave face. . .but this is the first moment that he realizes not only is he going to lose, but he's going to lose big. It's going to be a grand,. public humiliation.
NBC has us up next. Charlie takes a clicker and turns the closest TV to NBC.
Turning now to the New York Senate race, NBC is now calling the election for Roger'Lynfield. After a shockingly poor showing in both Suffolk county and in his home county, Kings, it now appears that David Norris will lose this election badly, perhaps by as much as 10 points.
This is a.bignight, gentleman.
You look tired. You should take a vacation when we finish with this. You'll have earned it.
I'm not sure the kind of tired I feel would be fixed by a vacation.
Sure it would. Everybody needs a vacation. Even us.
Good evening, Congressman. You're in the Grand Ballroom if that's what you're looking for.
Actually just looking for a place to be alone for a minute before I head in there.
None of the banquet rooms on the third floor are in use tonight.
Thank you.
Hi. I hope I didn't startle you.
What are you doing in here?
Hiding from security.
Oh... . What did you do?
Crashed a wedding. One floor up.
It's almost midnight. They'just caught on now?
Ivana Trump finally realized I wasn't her niece. I think after the fifth; glass of champagne my Czech accent started slipping. spite of David's state that gets a grin.
Are you for real?
Life is short.
Hard to argue with that.
You're that guy running for Senate aren't you?
I'm "that guy."
You winning?
No.
Too bad. The other guy's a tool.
Personally, I think mooning your friends at a college reunion is no big deal.
At least not full page. He can't help but crack up.
Listen, I've done it.
You weren't running, for Senate at the time.
Do you still have a chance or is it over?
He crushed me. She has beautiful eyes. And an exceptional gift for conveying empathy...
You must ...I don't know what you must be feeling...
Winning would feel better. But losing has its advantages.
Like what?
The only time a politician is alone is when he's asleep.. .or in the bathroom. After eight years in politics that gets kind of hard to take. She tilts her head a little, gives him a curious look.
Watching you, you'd never know it. The way she looks at him, the way she says it, David knows she sees what others miss in him -- even if he isn't even quite sure what it is. Not yet.
Thank you...
Well, everything happens for a reason, right? Even losing. God, I'm really rollrng out the platitudes tonight, aren't I?
It's the champagne. Brines out the Hallmark in people.
After it kills their Czech accents. She offers:him the bottle. He hesitates, then takes it.
Why not? I have to think up some good platitudes for my speech. He takes a gulp of champagne.
Why the hell would you do that?
Apparently, even if I hadn't been caught dropping my drawers in the middle of a senate campaign I would have lost the election anyway because I'm too blunt.
 Says who?
The TV pundits.
Fuck 'em. They just wish they had the balls to be candidates themselves. She hands him the champagne bottle again.
And they work for the Man anyway.
Otherwise the-country will be run by tools. like Lynwood.
"Field."  "Lynfield." A beat. She shrugs. Then they lean toward each other... and kiss. It turns more and more passionate. When they finally pull apart:
Holy shit. She seems just as surprised. They look at each other and laugh. Just then the bathroom door opens. It's Charlie. He sees David and the woman.
David?
She exits.
Wait. The woman turns to face David. Suddenly two hotel guards turn the corner and spot the woman.
There! They rush toward her.
Gotta go.  Don't let the bastards grind you down. She spins and sprints away. The hotel guards chase her.
What the hell was that?
I'm really not sure. David has a huge grin on his face.
But I think I'm ready to give my speech.
I grew up in Red Hook and I don't want to shock anybody but I got in a few fist fights along the way. Laughter ripples through the crowd. We don't know enough yet to get the joke.
And we used to have a saying when you got in a fight: "it's not whether or not you get knocked down -- because eventually everyone does -- it's what you do when you get back up."
But I am... (waiting for the laughter to die down) But I am going to get backup. I wanted to come out here tonight and give you a victory speech, a speech I've dreamed of giving foremost of my life. But life doesn't always deal you the cards you want. The audience sobered now. Reflective.
My life changed when I was ten years old. My entire world turned upside-down.' His audience,. knows exactly what he's talking about.
And as I looked for something to -hang ;on to, something; to help me cope' with what had. happened the only thing that made sense to me was service. Finding a way to do something with my life that left this world a little better than I found it. The audience is moved. Tears begin to well up. People dab at their eyes.
He spills his coffee when he steps out of Starbucks. The moment he comes through the door.
Got it.
Our models indicate between 7:00 and 7:05 am. Harry nods but he seems distant Richardson sees this.
You planned that vacation, right?
Two weeks. Richardson claps him din-the shoulder and leaves. Harry watches him go.
RSR Capital announced yesterday that David Norris would become its Vice Chairman.
Norris worked at Goldman Sachs for four years before running for Congress at the tender age of 25.
He served four terms in the House-- The blackberry rings.
--prior to his unsuccessful bid for Senate in last week's election. David rushes over and ?icks=up the blackberry. He has to look for a second to figure out how to hit "answer."
RSR, one ofthe country's fastest- growing hedge funds is run by NO ris's former Goldman colleague and campaign chairman, Charles
The blackberry rings again. It's very loud.
. his . electrifying concession speech led commentators to-- Finally David finds the answer button as he mutes the TV.
Hello?
Tom Frankel from the Journal is calling you in five minutes. I just gave him this number.
Give him 3227. I'm not used to this phone yet.
Can't. He's going to ask you about joining the firm. My compliance guys say all firm business has to be done on the blackberry.
Really?
Sarbanes-Oxley. You voted for it, pal. In fact, you cosponsored it.
Sir, there's someone--
There's another M1 right behind me.
No...
No way... It's the woman from election night.', He leans around to try to see the front of her face. "It's definitely her. His eyes drift down at her legs. Just then she opens her eyes. She recoils for a second;. Then` her eyes soften when she realizes who it is.
I think. we "ve met.
 Your skirt was so short I couldn't help it.
Dress.
Skirt, dress, same thing.
If you're a pervert, yeah. All that matters is they both show leg.
So do shorts, dear.
Yeah, but there's that pesky piece of fabric right here that interferes with your fantasy life. She shuts her eyes and leans against the window.
Wake me when you have a good come back to that.
I have one but, unlike you, I wouldn't say it in public.
 Pussy. David laughs. Can not believe this woman. In a good way. His blackberry RINGS. Her eyes pop open. David.picks up.
Hello...? Hello? David looks at his. phone. The signal has gone to zero.
That ringer get any-louder or do you pretty much have it maxed out?
You're relentless.
I never sleep through the night. I catch up on the bus.
I just started a new job, today.
Something got into me. He means her. They stare at each other.
What's the deal with you and argyles?
What's the deal with you and boring shades of blue? David is wearing a Navy blue suit, blue shirt, and blue tie. A beat.
At least my clothes match.
That's easy if you. restrict yourself to one color.
The belt and shoes are black.
Variety is the spice of .life .
There you` go with the platitudes again. I guess it wasn't the ch mpagne . His blackberry goes again. RING-RING.
Hello? Hello? He shakes his head. It's dead again.
Your phone sucks. Don't guys like you get special phones that actually work in the middle of the biggest city in the country?
Depends what the telecom lobby thinks of your voting record.
Now.
Oh, Jesus...
Shit! He's looking at a leather portfolio. We catch a glimpse inside: a complicated circuit diagram. Harry shuts the book, look's up to get a bead on" the the bus, then takes off down Broadway, again, hoping to cut it off at Union Square.
I'll pay for the damage. He pulls out his wallet. There's $7 inside. She laughs.
Hope your new job pays better than your old one.
Give me your number and I'll send you a check.
God, that is smooth. Spill coffee on me then ask for my number. She takes the coffee from his hands and casually takes a sip, then turns back to him with a devilish look in her eyes.
Just let me spill some on you and we'll be even. She thrusts the cup toward his tie. David parries.
It's my first day at the office!
Tell your boss some crazy chick dumped coffee on you on the MI. It's New York; he'll understand. She thrusts the cup back at him-
No! He grabs the cup with both his hands over hers.
You're crazy. Actually crazy. The phone on David's lap'RINGS again. She snatches it with her free hand.
Who was that? She shrugs. Sorry, pal. He lunges for his phone, but she holds it on the other side of her body.
What is this, third grade?
You forgot what that was like, didn't you? How fun it was... That stops him for a moment. Until the phone RINGS again.
Oh my God! How do you stand it? She drops the phone into the coffee.
There. We're even. He stares at her. Incredulous. They lock eyes. God knows what would come next if they were in private... The fourth RING gurgles up through the coffee. A beat.
Sturdy little fucker, isn't it? She pulls the phone out of the cup and wipes it off with her scarf, pushing the button which sends the call to voice mail. Then she reaches out her hand, as if to shake.
By the way, I'm Elise.
The morning after .I lost I woke up thinking about you . That melts her. Instantly. All her bravado drops.
Dammit! Harry sprints out onto lark Avenue now, right behind the bus-- HONK! Harry turns just in time to see a.taxi skid into him. TRUNK! He rolls up onto the hood--
Guess who I just sat down next to on the bus?
Who?
The woman from election night.
The one you kissed?
She kissed me. I just didn't fight it.
You're shitting me. Just randomly you sit down next to-- He's cut off mid-word.
Charlie? David looks at his phone. "Call Lost" on the screen. David hits redial. Gets a fast busy.
' . This is ridiculous. He pockets his phone.
Are you okay? Harry is sitting now, wincing, but still searching intently for something.
I'm fine-- Will you hand me that? Harry points at his leather portfolio on the pavement a few feet away. We'll come to know it as a "PLANBOOK."
Are you sure you're okay? The driver hands it to him. Harry flips to a bookmarked page and we get our first good look at that circuit diagram: Thousands of interconnected lines. Dozens of geometric symbols at intersection points. And written notations in a language as complex as Sanskrit crossed with Chinese. And, maybe it's just a trick of the light but several of the lines appear to re-arrange themselves on the page.
Oh...shit...
Okay... Daviddecides he doesn't need to announce himself.
 Doesn't anybody bother getting in before eight at this place? David passes a couple of empty offices on his way towards a large corner suite where a secretary sits outside an office marked "Charles Traynor, Chairman." She's smiling.
Susan? He leans across her desk, touches her arm. She stays dead still. David rushes through Charlie's door:
Call 911! Something's wrong with Susan!
Jesus! Three men in business suits talking by the window spin to see David. it's Mr. Richardson and-two aides we recognize as the "security guards" who chased Elise away on election night.
What the hell are you doing?! Richardson blinks Clearly surprised. Then:
Grab him! David bolts out of the office as they lunge at him--
David jumps a mile. It's physically impossible that Richardson could have gotten there that fast.
You can't get away, David. David spins and rushes back into the main office, then down an internal staircase to the floor below. Jumps the last five steps and hits the floor hard. As he comes up he runs smack into another RSR employee who is frozen solid. David curses, then dives around the frozen employee to find Richardson, coming out of another office. down the hall. Again, physically impossible for him to get there that fast-- David spins and-- A DISTORTED WIDE ANGLE SHOT of a chloroform rag shoved right at us. FOCUS GOES IN AND OUT... FROM DAVID'S POV, BLURRY FOCUS as he's carried toward one of the large corner offices on the 40th floor. The nameplate reads "Steve Kincaid." Richardson opens the door and ushers his men, carrying David,
Except when they walk through the door they're not in an office 40 floors above lower Manhattan,: they step inside a large warehouse... Their movement completely violates the laws of physics.
Silence. Then voices come up slowly:
Yes, sir. No, sir. No, sir. I understand that, sir. Absolutely. I'll do that, sir.
Was that Donaldson?
Yes.
What do you want to do?
FADE UP -- BLURRY AT FIRST -- to DAVID'S POV of the warehouse David caught a glimpse of just before he passed out. A half-dozen members of the "Intervention Team" (the Silver Suits) stand nearby. Richardson and MCCRADY (one of the men from the rooftops) stand behind David, about 20 feet away.
Can you reset him?
I don't think we have the authority in a situation like this.
Legal just arrived.
Re-setting's off the table. This is our fault:... Richardson glances irately at Harry, who stands by himself off to the side, clearly disgraced. David, who is tied to a chair facing away from Richardson, cranes around to see who's talking.
Hey. The suits stare back in silence for a beat, then turn back to talking amongst themselves -- though at a lower volume.
What are my options?
Can somebody tell me what's going on?
 The questions will burn in him till the day he dies. You'll have to monitor him constantly...
He can hear little snippets of what Burdensky's saying--
.to make sure he doesn't talk... the endless ripple effects... REVEAL David untying the rope restraining him.
If it were me, I'd level with him.
Completely?
That's the only way to extinguish his curiosity. Richardson turns and studies David. Then walks over to him. An uncomfortable pause.
Who are you guys?
We're the people v ho make sure things happen according to Plan. David stares back at him for a moment. then leaps up. His rope comes off and the chair falls. He sprints toward an open door forty feet across the warehouse. Richardson makes a little gesture with his hand--
David is dragged back to the center of the room and placed back in his chair in front of Richardson.
Did you really think I couldn't see that coming? David dabs blood from his lip, which split during the fall.
I can read your mind! David stares back.
Yeah, really...
Now,. why are you still deciding whether or not to run? David's hands go to his head`, involuntarily, an atavistic response, as if;s.omehow that will keep his thoughts from spilling out into view.
You saw the futility of that back at the office. David's entire reality has finally been bent to the breaking point. He can't hang on any longer to an explanation for all this based in the world he's known to date...
What the hell is happening to me?
You just saw behind a curtain you weren't even supposed to know was there, Mr. Norris. Its jarring. I'm sure.
I just... came to work...
It wasn't your fault. Your Path through the world this morning was supposed to be adjusted. (glancing bitterly at Harry, in the corner) Your coffee was supposed to.spill onto your shirt as you left Starbucks near your apartment. You would have gone up to change and arrived at work ten minutes later than you did. By then we would have left.
Whatever you were doing to Charlie back there... it wasn't misplacing his keys.
Sometimes. when nudging a person back on Plan isn't enough we intervene directly.
Why Charlie? What did you do to him.
You need to worry about getting back on your Plan, David, not worry about us putting him back on his. David stares back, still trying to get his bearings.
Only a handful of human beings know what you now know, David. We're determined to keep it that way.
So before I let you go, you need to understand something: If you ever reveal our existence we will erase your brain. Your memories, your emotions, your entire personality will be expunged. Your friends and family will think you've gone crazy. You won't "think" anything because a blank slate can't "think." Davidstares back.
Do you understand what I just said?
Yes...
Not a word. Not one word about us. (long beat as he studies
okay ... . you're free to go. David stands there a monent..:.not sure it's real. Richardson points at the door. David walks toward it. Just then another man comes up to Richardson.
He said I could go.
How is that possible? Why didn't we get an alert?
You said I could go. Richardson walks over to him.
You ran into a woman named Elise on the bus this morning?
 Why does it'matter?
You weren't ever supposed to see her again.
Why do you care.?
Because, David, you can't be with her. And we didn't want to have to resort to this-- Four big guys grab David and pull his arms backwards like prison guards incapacitating a prisoner. Richardson reaches into David's pocket and pulls out his wallet--
What the hell-- What are you-- Richardson removes the piece of paper that Elise wrote her number on from David's wallet--
Richardson places the wallet back in David's pocket, then pulls out a lighter--
No! And burns Elise's number. David strains and tries to pull loose from the vice-like grip of the four Intervention Team men. But he can't get free.
What is wrong with you people?! Richardson drops the paper on the floor and lets it burn. ON David's reaction CUT TO:
You're David Norris, right?
Ice water.
That's it? David nods. Harry arrives.
We should talk. But not here. Go back to work and I'll contact you later today with a place to meet.
Okay. Harry can see that David is still very shaken.
The world's exactly the same as it's always been. You just understand it more completely now.
Mr. IKincaid's in the finance meeting, Congressitan. Main conference room. David turns to see her.
Thanks. David walks away, still trying to get his bearings in the new reality he now knows. Charlie comes around a corner.
There you are. I called your cell ten times. You left me hanging.
Sorry...
(seeing the look in
Are you okay?  Come on, we're late. Happy first day by the way. They head towards the conference room.
You sure you're okay.
Fine. How about you?
Great. Why?
No headaches or--
I feel fantastic, -man. Is it just, me or is this an odd conversation?  What the hell happened with the girl?
After the meeting.
Please explain to me why you don't have an ear-to-ear smile right now.
I lost her number.
You lost her number?
 I was pickpocketed.
Come on. You can't be serious.  You're serious... Oh, man...dude. I'm sorry... I'm really sorry...
A lot of people just collapse when they see what you've s'een. Their personal choices suddenly seem meaningless to them. Life starts to feel pointless.
I was` raised to believe there's something behind the curtain. I just never pictured it quite like this.
Most people don't. Harry looks over his shoulder, scans for any signs of his colleagues. He's far from relaxed.
How are you feeling?
You should know. You can read my mind, right?
Harry hesitates...as if he's not sure how much to tell David, how far to go with this. Finally:
Richardson was just trying to scare you.
He knew what color I was thinking.
Because he set it up as a choice. "Choose a color. Choose a number"
So? Harry looks away. He's crossing a line. He's really putting himself out there:
We can't read your mind or hear your thoughts. But before you make a choice your brain weighs options, and we percpite that. We know if you're going to go off Plan "or not because, as long as we're close enough, we cansense it when it's about to happen.
it-;' s like a sixth sense for you?
Seventh, actually.
What did they do too Charlie?
Made some small change in the way he assesses risk.
What type of risk?
 I don't know. Something arcane. Something to do with mortgage- backed securities.
That's all?
Yes.
What would your colleagues do to you if they knew what you were telling me? This is precisely what Harry has been worried about.
That's why we're meeting out here.
They're not following me?
We don't have the manpower to follow everybody all the time. They're checking in on you. Just not here. Not right now. ON David's face considering this.
Why are you helping me?
I have my reasons. David studies him. Ha=rry's' clearly not ready to go into
Why do they care if I'm with Elise?
Your entire reality gets shattered this morning and you want to know about a woman?
Why do they care? Harry looks back at him. Taken aback a bit by how much David seems to care.
I don't know.
You have no idea?
All I know is, given the amount of resources they've used, keeping you from her is pretty important to them.  You're going to look for her aren't you? Again, David is silent.
There are twelve million people in this city. On a slow day. You're not going to find her, you do realize that, don't yore-?
 They send you here to tell me that?
You want my advice? Forget about her. Accept that you'`>ll never see her again. Move on with your life. ON David as Harry's words sink in.
How are you feeling about the speech? David has not noticeably aged and yet he's more tempered and subdued than when we last saw him. We `hear it in his voice:
I'm ready... I changed a few things last night.
Tell me at breakfast.
David's head whips around, only able to see her from the back now. She walks like Elise. She's dressed in the same eclectic style. He slams the red "next stop" strip, jumps to his feet, and runs to the front of the bus.
Stop the bus.
The next stop--
Now.
Elise! The woman turns around. And it's her...
David?
Hi.
Wow... How areyou. Reeling from the adrenaline; David takes a moment, then:
 I rode the Ml to work every day for the last three years hoping one day I'd run into you again. She's amused, rather than moved, because she doesn't buy it.
Calling would have been easier.
I couldn't.
Girlfriend wouldn't let you?
No girlfriend. She looks at him with continued skepticism. But his expression is dead serious.
Can we go somewhere and talk? She hesitates. It hurt when he didn't call. She's angry at herself for that, but it's the truth.
 Don't you have to get to work?
I just got sick.
"I haven't seen you in three years - - You make me sick" is not an ideal come-on. For the record. David smiles. She's softening. A little. His phone vibrates. He pulls it out of his pocket.
One second.
Why not?
And...I might have to push the speech.
What? Are you crazy?!
I just ran into Elise. He hangs up.
You just hung up on your best friend.
We've known each other since we were kids. We have a shorthand.
He's not being flip or clever or smooth. He's being matter- of-fact. Serious.
What speech?
Doesn't matter. Let's take a walk. His focus on her is absolute. But she's wary of getting reeled in again.
Where?
Somewhere far. We have a lot to talk about.
I don't think you should cancel your speech. What if I don't like you at the end of our walk?
I'll take my chances.
Seri6us1y, my number hasn't changed:. Just call me like you didn't last time.
My-speech will always be there, you might not be.
Walk with me and I'll explain that. She's still dubious. His phone vibrates. This time he turns it off .
 I'm not losing you again. I'm not letting you out of my sight.
Stalker.
Can we walk? The moment she finally relents, CUT TO:
Polished black shoes running down a corridor on an impossibly shiny black floor with inlaid decorative silver borders.
We have a problem.
It's been years, David. How do you know I don't have a boyfriend? Oh, shit. He hasn't even had time to think about that.
you have a boyfriend?
Would it-Matter?
So all the stuff about me being in your mind constantly for the last three years was just talk... The truth is you don't have any real conviction.
It wouldn't matter.
So you don't care about being a home-wrecker?
Okay... if you were married it would matter.
Now you're just trying to say what you think I want to hear. A beat. She lets David twist in the wind...
I'm single. ON David's face: relief...
Now let's hear your bullshit excuse for never calling me.
I didn't have your number.
What?
It was taken from me. I was mugged.
Oh, come on.
Your number was in my Wallet and they ,:took it.
Come on..
I'm serious. What else could possibly-explain my fawning all over you on that bus three years ago...and again today and not calling you in between?
I swear to God I didn't have your number. I swear on my parents' graves.
I didn't even have a last name to try to track you down. Do you know how many pages come back when you type "Elise" into Google?
 You really are smooth.
That's not fair.
It's okay. I like it. I probably shouldn't, but I do.
Tell me you're kidding. How could our Path-analysis miss this? McCrady just shakes his head, mystified... Richardson walks to the closet and pulls out his fedora:.
'rlhek,e are they now?`
Central Park. Bethesda Fountain.
I read somewhere you're running again.
I haven't announced yet but... soon.
I hope I had a little something to do with that.
That concession speech I gave sure did. You had everything to do with that. Elise smiles.
You know entirely too much about me given how little I know about you.
According to Cosmo I'm supposed to keep it that way.
According to Maxim, I'm supposed to "maintain eye contact and ask you what you do for a living." It's the first witty comment h6' :s made this time around. He's just barely starting t6'loo`en up.
Oh..
Not like that, you pervert. In a dance company. The. Manhattan Modern Ballet.
I think you have the wrong idea about me.
I think it was the first thing that crossed your mind.
Is there a performance of this company coming up that I could watch?
Actually, we have a show opening tomorrow night.
I'm there. You hungry yet?
He points at the Boathouse restaurant a few hundred feet down the path they're on.
Yeah...
We could wait an hour and call it lunch.
I bet lines like that work wonders with the "dancers" you normally hang out with.
So unfair...
Good morning. It's good to see you again,.sir.
Thank you. You're... (pulling it from the recesses of his brain) Paul, right? De...Santo?
Wow, yeah. How did you remember that? It's been a year.
Morris is on the artistic director. Melton is on Charlie Traynor.
This whole thing will be over in an hour.
 We may not have that long.
What?
How do you do that? I can't remember the names of people I just met.
 David.
Right.. Thanks_.'
Her decision tree is diverging from our models.
No, something is wrong. I'm already seeing inflection points. Off Richardson's surprised look--
Ballet is basically impossible to do correctly.
Why?
You just do absurd things. with your body. The movement is completely unnatural. It requires incredible strength in all sorts of random muscles. And you have to be born with ridiculous amounts of flexibility in your hip or you'll never be an y good.
What's that?
If they kiss...
A real kiss. But once they do that every possible adjustment that's strong enough to break them up will cause ripples over your limit.
If Melton and Morris do their jobs right we'll be okay. But Richardson is clearly worried.
In the history of ballet there've only been a handful of people who actually did ballet the way it's supposed to be done. Forme that just made it completely addictive.
Do you ever get nervous when people watch you?
Not really. Do you get anxious when you make 'a speech?
I get more anxious alone in my apartment than in front of an auditorium full of people. Everything's backwards for me.
I hate to interrupt. They turn to see Charlie'''aynor. I tXT. BOATHOUSE PATIO DAY Richardson turns to a colleague, Melton, who steps through the "bar house" door.
 Nice work.
How did you find me?
Does it matter?
Elise, pleasure to see you again.
Your speech?
He's announcing today.
At the speech?
It's okay.
What's okay? It's not okay. The one thing you can't be this. time around is impulsive. That's why we're announcing the way we are,
God, don't skip this for me.
I told you I'm not letting you out of my sight.
David, what the hell?
 Come with me. Come and watch.
 Great. Perfect solution. Now, let's pay and get you over there. Charlie waves the waiter over to give them the check.
Now?
The speech is in 30 minutes.
I can't then.  They just moved my dress rehearsal to noon. David's own sixth sense kicks in. Has he been discovered?
We can reschedule the speech.
David!
I'll meet you right after the rehearsal.
Where does your company perform?
We're n in our space. There was a`;power ot outage or something.  We're using a space" on Murray and West Broadway today.
You can literally walk there after the speech. David nods, his suspicions fading.
The "four blocks" thing was a brilliant move, boss.
 We're not out of the woods yet. He looks down at the inflection points in McCrady's Planbook.
Okay. David and Elise stop to say goodbye to-each other.
You know, the speech on election night, you said I inspired you... I wish I could do that again now.
He then moves a water glass on'their table. The sun hits the glass and reflects into the bar area where--
As the daughter turns back to look at her mother, she notices David, over her mom's shoulder...
just want to
I hope the rumors are true, Congressman. David pulls back fr`bm Elise, suddenly self-conscious, turns to see the 40-year old woman Richardson just manipulated. She points at the TV report on David's announcement.
Thanks. Thanks a lot. David turns back to Elise.
I'm wrangling him right now--
Whatever happens...I'm not going to let anything stand between us this time. It's such an odd thing to say, if you don't know what David has gone through. She gives him a quizzical look. But she's also moved by his,tone
Okay.:.. I believe you. Of course I tend to believe in the wrong people. Especially men. It's the kind of quip that's more truth than jest.
Not this time. He leans in to kiss her--
I'll see you in two hours.
We're okay...
That was way too close. What the hell is going on with this case?
What?
I've just never seen you like that. David can't possibly explain.
"I'm going to-postpone my announcement to have brunch with a woman?" Postpone any speech. I know she made an impression on you but this is ... Charlie just shakes his head, unable to comprehend. A beat.
"What is it about her?
Richardson. Yes, sir. Believe me, it was a surprise to me too. But I think we have it under control.
Oh, you're clone. You're gone...
.I'm here today to honor that, and to announce my intention to run for the United States Senate...
Just tell me if he disappears one more time you'll never take his call again.
Don't worry. That's definite.
Good Morning America at 7am tomorrow, then you have the bankers group... David, are you listening? David's staring out the window. The sunlight has caught the building across the street just right to illuminate Richardson and McCrady on the second floor.
I ' 11-keep you = posted, sir. Richardson hangs up the phone and turns .t look out at David. As he does he real zes David can see him.
D` emit ! Richardson-steps back out of the sunlight.
What?
Get out of the sunlight. McCrady, notices David looking, jumps back out of the light.
I have to see Elise now.
After you go back out there and talk to the New York channels--
Tomorrow. After GMA. He heads for the door. Charlie follows.
No, we need this on the nightly-- (catching up to David and
David... Charlie looks at him for a moment, searching for the right words to say to a friend...
Every time we get close.. .you do something to derail it. A beat. There's a truth to that. David knows it. But--
This is different. Trust me, it's different. David leaves.
Elise ...I doubt you'll ever get this message but--
David dials 411.
Can I have the number for the Manhattan Modern Ballet...
He looks down to see his phone has zero bars...
He's going to go next door:. Just then David exits the furniture store and goes next door to a clothing store--
You can't keep.-thephones and internet down on the whole block, for too much. longer without running into ripple problems...
Do you have a phone book?
David gets to the phone book page that ends with "Manhattan Mobile Phone Company." The next page is torn out. David slams his fist down.
There is an entire world of women out there. I thought I made it clear this one was off limits. David takes off walking.
I must have forgotten. It's been a while.
Doesn't change the fact. David looks around, trying to figure out his next move.
Why are you so.determined to keep us apart?
You know: why.
The Plan? If there is a Pi ri you misread it.
There's no misreading what the Plan says about you and Elise. It's unequivocal.
Then your Plan's wrong.
Do you realize who wrote this Plan?
I don't care. Richardson grabs him and pushes him against a brick wall.
Well you should. You need to learn a little more respect. David shoves him off. Looks like he might take a swing at Richardson. Then his eye catches the complex diagram that McCrady is looking at in his Planbook.
Why are you keeping us apart?
Because the Plan calls for it.
That was chance. That wasn't us.
Three times? Bullshit! If I'm not supposed to be with her then why do I feel like this?
It doesn't matter what you feel. It matters what's in black and white. David's ready to explode: at him when he sees something in Richardson's eyes. David stops.. .then his whole expression changes...
You don't know, do you? You don't know why they're keeping us apart...
You're in a nice suit but the reality is you're just a minion aren't you? David pushes past Richardson and walks into a busy restaurant. McCrady quickly consults his Planbook.
He's deciding how to--
I'm sorry to disturb your lunch. I have a bit of an emergency. Is there anybody in this room who's ever seen a performance of the Manhattan Modern Ballet?
Son of a bitch.
He's smart. He's very smart. David exits the restaurant from another door. He hurries toward West Broadway.
Maybe you should try the subway. David holds him in a steely gaze.
Don't all those cab drivers you're diverting have Plans too? What about all the other people looking for cabs in this part of the city right n6t? What about their Plans? The ripples must be endless... Richardson is taken aback that David has figuredthis out.
I don't care what you put in my way, I'm not going to give up. David walks off, leaving Richardson standing there.
You've got two more minutes keeping taxis off West Broadway before--
Jesus:.,  Is this how far you people will go?! He rushes toward the accident--
An hour later. Four police cars and an ambulance. They treating one of the accident"s victims for minor scrapes ]avid is getting intervie,ved by a police officer.
Unfortunately you're the only witness, Congressman.
How much longer?
A few more minutes. I'm sorry. I know you have to meet somebody.
I didn't say I had to meet anyone.
Well ...I just assumed--
Amateur! That's an amateur's mistake!
You're not a real cop, are you? You're one of them. Somebody could have been killed in that crash! Doesn't that make you--
Sir, calm down. But David's already walking away.
Sergeant! He goes to the highest ranking guy on the. scene.
I know you heed a statement from me, but do I have to stay here to give it to you or--
No, sir, we know ow to get in touch with you.
Thank you. '.Is this man under your command? David turns to see that the "Police Officer" who was interviewing him is gone.
17th Street between 10th and 11th. And sir, you might have to break some traffic laws getting there. So take this. He hands him a $100 bill. A light that just turned green
Go through that-- The driver blows through it as it turns re
I want more red liUhtss--
 There are too many, ripples in the system.. Cumm.lative effects are. coming into play.
A traffic jam.
That's even w r. We have to get more localize. Richardson looks at the taxi disappearing up Hudson.
He's getting out of range!
Hey!
The chef charges over and pulls open the door to find -- refrigerated food. And nothing else. Richardson and McCrady have disappeared. The chef blinks.
Wrong one. .. Two doors down. God, I hate downtown!
What?
Is she expecting you? He nods.
I hope you realize how lucky you are. I'm the friend. Lauren.
Can 'I block the front door?
He's already through Pit.
The next one!
It goes without saying that I'll kill you if you hurt her.
 There are several next ones--
Wait, he's--
Hat! Hat! McCrady is behind him He points. at Richardson's fedora, which is on the sidewalk. Fell off when he ran. Richardson sprints to grab it--
I'm in serious trouble here...
Dammit ! McCrady's phone buzzes. He pulls it out and looks at the caller ID.
Celebrate while you can. They'll just kick it upstairs now You have no idea what you're up against. David just looks at him. He'll deal with that when it comes...
Sir? Richardson grabs the phone and answers --.going outside to talk. David turns back to the dance studio. He opens the door to get an unobstructed view of Elisee,. She spins, arches, dips. David can't take his eyes off hey` When the artistic director pauses the routine to give notes, Elise gives David a. little wave. Then they start again. David looks back out at Richardson on the street, but he's gone..
He's waiting for you.
David talks to Elise, who's showered and dressed
You're incredible. How did you get that good?
It's all I do. It's the only thing I ever wante& to be. And I started young.
How young?
By third grade I was going every day after school.
That's a lot of motivation for an eight year-old. She waves to the other dancers and receptionist in the lobby and they exit on to--
We moved around a lot then. Dance was kind of my stability.
Sure... it was the only constant in your life, aside from your parents...
Really more the dance. She doesn't make a big deal of it but we get it.
Oh... David's phone buzzes. Caller ID shows it's Charlie.
I take it this is an unauthorized social break.
I'm a candidate for the US-:Serrate. I don't have to punch out''when I leave. David sends the call to voice.mai
Charlie?
Couple houtrs while I'm out of touch won't:ill him.
Couple hour, huh? Well, we better make them,,-,--'count.
What's it look like? We see the reflection of a dance club in the window.
I'm a terrible dancer. I don't dance. Elise climbs out. David follows.
You don't now. By the end of the night, you will.
They walk towards "Plan B", a hip joint with zebra wallpaper and fake palm trees. Salsa music pulses from inside.
You're going to teach me to dance in one night? Not happening.
Are you doubting me?
Yes. She spins and shoves him against the wall. Forcefully kisses him. Then pulls free.
Don't. She turns and walks into the club. David stands there.
Holy shit...
The disciplinary rules requ-te me to. demote you in rank and re-assign yot to a less desirable post. Donaldson ingers the document he just signed.
I'm going-'to interpret those rules loosely. I'm going to go easy on you because,I feel the deck was stacked ,against you. In a WIDER shot we see that both Burdensky and Donaldson's AIDE sit nearby.
I'm talking about the intense chemistry between them, the constant inflection points, and the kicker of course: you pulling them apart only to have "chance" put them back together. Twice. That seemed impossible. So I asked Burdensky to do some research this morning, which he just completed.
It seems like these two were meant to be together because they were meant to be together...
What?!
Were, in the past, in an earlier version of the plan. Actually a dozen earlier versions.
Serious, serious.trouble...
Salt, Patron, lime .'-.and two glasses dotin on the bar.
Ready? Nope.
Perfect. She yanks him onto the dance floor.
Why was it changed?
Something important. They went from "meant to be together" to "red- letter denied relationship" in a single Plan revision a few years back. As for why, specifically, that's apparently above even my pay grade...
You spend your whole career hoping that one day you'll get a "red- letter" case. Something you can really make a name for yourself with. Finally I get one... and it's. .booby-trapped...
Okay, we've al-ready used up an hour, we >etter hurry. She pills him toward the exit.
Hurry where?
You've got to let yourself feel the music.
I've been told I have trouble feeling.
Whoever said that hasn't seen you speak.
That's different. I mean--
What?
In private. With women AlthOugh that might be changing. Is there any style of dance you can:'t do?
Next stop, the best 80s club in the city. You ready?
To make an ass of myself for the third time in one night? 4`r, 6'.
What are'the rules of the race---
No rules.
Hmmm, could get ugly... He looks down an alley as if he's noticed something. When she looks, he takes off like a bat out of hell--
You bastard! He's got a good lead, so he flips around and runs backwards.
Quit complaining and run. She catches up. He spins and digs it out. He can't dance, but he sure can run. He pulls away and wins.
Yes!!!! He pumps his arms in a victory dance.
You said "no rules". She punches him in the stomach. Hard. He crumples, completely unprepared for it.
You're insane.
We. need a cab. He'laughing through the'pain.
I'm serious. You're a maniac. You should come with a warning label.
I do. You just can't see it with my clothes on. OFF David biting his lip... and PRE-LAPPING the music--
Doesn't this song make you feel like you're at your high school prom?
I was six when it came out. So, not really. Brutal. David just shakes his head and smiles as, she pulls him to the dance floor.
Baby...1-I-I can't wait--
As the song kicks in and David and Elise start dancing... A couple of kids next to them notice David and start pointing and signaling their approval- The kids who first spotted David have alerted a few others. More people in the crowd cheer him on.
So we're going operational? This is exciting. It's been a while.
We r t no ti go p etational No one ever.mad& to my job by taking stupit ris,s .
We're going to kick this case upstairs.. .to someone with the latitude to clean up this mess without breaking into a sweat. We're going to walk this upstairs to Thompson.
Thompson? Are we even allowed to go to him directly? He's a Senior
Exec VP.
Isn't he the one.. .when he was in the field his nickname was--
"The Hammer?" Yes. He'll crush this romance with the flick of his hand. And he'll thank me for giving him the opportunity.
David and Elise dancing.
Cause I can't wait,. this .is what I've been waiting for-- People on the dance floor are literally screaming in support.
You grew up over there? She indicatesa residential area just behind the docks.
What were you like as a. kid?
Before sixth grade I spent about half my time in the principal's office.
You? Really?
The only person who spent as much time down there as me was a girl I had a huge crush on so I didn't mind too much.
A smile spreads on Elise's face.
 Did your dad work here?
No... My dad filled vending machines.
And you're going to be a senator...
After my brother died my Dad wanted to get me out of town for a while. We went to Washington and the day we arrived he took meto the. Capitol. We ended up sitting in the Senate gallery;,all day. (re: Financial' District across the river) We could see that from the end of my block, but-be never once encouraged me to go to Wall Street. His idol was JFK. He thought business guys were selfish.
So...areyou doing all this-:f.or him?
I want to matter. I don't think that's just forrhim. Elise,. tucks her head into his shoulder.
I don't want tonight to mess anything..up for you, for the campaign.
Just make sure I make it to Diane Sawyer on time and I'll be fine. Elise looks at him for a long beat.
You're different... somehow you make me believe...
Believe what?
Just... believe, period.
 I don't let people in, David. And I never let them in this quickly. David pulls her close., He-,can't see her eyes. But we can. She's struggling with something more...
I haven'::t lead a perfect life
I. don't want perfect.,.
: I'm trying to say .I'm not sure somebody running. for office can have, me in their life. David turns her around so he can see her face, so he knows for sure she hears this:
I haven't stopped thinking about you since the moment I met you. I want you in my life--
There are skeletons in my closet, David. The kind that--
Listen to me--
The kind that people use against--
Elise, listen! I don't care. We'll work it out... I've spent my whole life wondering why it takes auditoriums of people to fill the empty space inside me. Then I met you...and realized it doesn't. She looks at him. He means it.
You scare me.
 That wasn't the effect I was going for... She smiles...then laughs out-loud--
Let it happen again. 7 Thompson's aides seem surprised by the answer.
You been up long?
No.
Did you wake up in. the middle of the night?
Slept straight through.
I thought you never sleep through.
I don't.
I won't hurt you. They kiss more... and then get swept up by it...
They lie in bed, post-coital, drained. Blissful. Until the phone rings. It's 6:17 am. Early for a call.
Hello? :Why, are you calling?
What's wrong..
That was my , ex. Adrian.
Oh... I didn't-- I guess we hadn't gotten to that stuff yet...
He hasn't called since we broke up.
How long?
Three months.
Was it serious?
An awkward beat. Elise opts for complete honesty.
We were engaged.
What happened? Complete honesty.
He left... David can feel this in the pit of his stomach now.
What an idiot.
You don't know me that well yet. You're still in the wishful thinking phase.
But it was:h'ard to leave.
H& knew what buttons., tb push.
that him? DtTid paints at pica re of Elise with an attractive man, arms wound each other. lis'e looks surprised, shocked even, to tY%'e photo on her b okcase. She nods.
David... . It's not... It's over between us. Completely over...I want to be clear about that. I'm pretty sure yesterday was the most perfect day I've ever had.
Me too. David looks at the clock.
I have this Diane Sawyer interview.
It comes out awkward.
I know. So did that. They look at each other. Then David reaches for his clothes--
Can I come? My dress rehearsal's not until nine. David's face lights up.
I'm afraid if I let you out of my sight. . .you know...I might never see you again... A smile creeps across his face...
You've overcome enormous obstacles in your life and risen to-such heights so quickly... People are fascinated by you.
Only people who haven't spent enough time with ' me to know the 'truth.
As a speaker and politician you've been repeatedly compared to JFK.
By my campaign manager mostly.
With a childhood friend. So I don't think that counts. And, truthfully, that's how we celebrate things we're I'm from.
 Let's just say you have a habit of getting into the press for...other uniquely human things as well--
that a euphemism, Diane? She laughs.
Most politicians...
.run aw ay from the embarrassing things they've done Yoti,crack, jokes about them. You embrace, them. Especially since your.;, concession speech thr ee years ago which started as a `sstd-up routine and brought tears to my,eyes by the .,end when you talked about losing Your mother to Lancer and then your older brother,,Pdt, to an overdose, both whei.you:were only ten years old.
I think Americans are tired of electing automatons whose every word and move is stage-managed so as not to offend anyone. I think they want somebody who doesn't hide who he is or what he really believes. I guess I'm hoping they want to elect someone who's actually like them.
And if you are?
You'd be surprised at the number of underwear companies that have approached me to be their spokesman. Diane bursts out laughing. The floor techs are laughing too.
Unfortunately, we're out of time. David Norris, announced his candidacy for US Senate yesterday. Thanks for stopping by. It goes to commercial.
Ma'am, Congressman Norris asked me to give you a message. We MOVE UP from his ID to REVEAL that the man is another one of Thompson's aides.
 They're saying your girlfriend -- can we call her that? Is this one going to last more than a month?
You can call her that. And yes. Definitely. David is looking at a text from Elise as he speaks. It says: "I want to go to bed with you."
They're saying she's getting a tour of the control room in studio C. Can somebody take Congressman Norris to studio C? Thompson's aide signals David to follow him. David does. They walk through a couple thick doors into the corridor.
God dammit!
If people could hear you out there it wouldn't be a very good soundstage, would it? David turns to see Thompson, in the now familiar dark suit and fedora.
My name's Thompson.
What happened to Free Will?
Who said anything about Free Will? David stares back at him.
You know, we actually tried Free Will before. After taking you from hunting and gathering to the height of the Roman Empire we stepped back to see how you'd do on your own. You gave us the Dark Ages -- for five centuries -- until finally we: decided we should come back in.
You expect me.'to believe that?
If you're in control of the important things then you're incompetent cause when I look around at the world these days it seems pretty fucked.
It's still here. If we'd left things in your hands, it wouldn't be.
Why are you trying to keep me from Elise? Or are you just another lackey who doesn't really know? Thompson studies David for a long beat. Then decides it's time to level with him.
We put Elise in front of you three years ago to inspire you to, .g `ve that speech -- the speech that pulled you back from the brink of oblivion and, overnight, itiade.you the front runner for this coming election. The intervention on Charlie was to prevent the hedge fund you had just become vice chairman of from going belly up in the sub-prime=crisis, bringing two major banks down. with it, arid in , the process making you unelectable. David blinks. Tries to, process this... : .bAVID Are you s aying you warit me to win this election?
This 'one and six mom, after it. And t'm not just talking about `elections ' for Senate. lowly dawns on David what Thompson is saying...
You can matter, David. Really matter. What you wanted your whole life. What your father wanted when he took you to the Senate gallery when you were ten. What your brother wanted when he made you promise, the day before he overdosed, that you wouldn't be like him.
Stop. Don't tell me this.
Why do you think you have that yearning to be in front of people. . .and that terrible emptiness when you're not?
Stop.
David you are meant to change the world. But that doesn't happen if you stay with her.
Why does it matter to you who I love? Some skeleton of hers `is so bad I won't get elected? I don't believe that!
It's not about her-:..it's about you, what being with her does to
What does that mean?! I'm better with her than I ever was alone., You just said it. That speech--
Yes. The speech... Put it this wad: in small doses, Elise was the cure. But in large doses... When you're enthralledwith someone she ' rubs off on you:.
Stop. Just: stop.
David, the president can't be a
Stop talking. It's not working.
Why do you refuse to accept what should be completely obvious by now? You've seen what we can do. You can't doubt we are who we say we are.
I don't care who you are. I don't care who's orders you're following.
You can't outrun your fate, David.
Who said anything about running.
Maybe we should just reset you.
We both know if you could have we wouldn't be standing here having this conversation... Thompson stares back. He's never dealt with such temerity...
You fight us, we will take everything from you.
You already did once.' And I'm still standing...
You'd still be living in caves if it weren't for us.
The only thing we have in this fucked up world are the choices we make. And there's nothing you can do to me that will get me sign them away.
It's 6:20. If you leave now, you'll make Elise's show. David's eyebrows go up. Huh? Thompson is letting him go?
She's a beautiful dancer.
What do you want?
There's one more piece to all this I haven't told you. I guess I didn't have the heart. If you stay with her, it doesn't just kill your dreams, it kills hers.
What?
Elise is about to become one of the most famous dancers in the country... and eventually one of the greatest choreographers in the world.
I don't believe you. I thought we already established that. A beat.
When you look back at all this, David, just remember, we tried to reason with you. Thompson gets up and leaves...just as the lights go down for the next dance. David watches him go...then turns around just in time to catch Elise's entrance into the dance -- a graceful jump. When she lands, her ankle cracks, and she falls. The audience gasps. INSERT: a floor board tilted oddly. It goes back to normal. FIND THOMPSON: His hand slightly outstretched. THE AUDIENCE instantly knows something is wrong. David jumps up and runs down to the.: stage door. A dancer comes from off stage and helps Elise off the floor as the show continues.
If it's broken...my career's over.
Don't say that. Don't.
I always hear people saying "you yourself for what can't bla M4' hpens fih other people," but in this case, really, you can. David stands up... . and punnhesThompson in `the face. h T ompson is knocked onto his ass. People in the waiting room stare at David. Almost everyone here knows his fade. He looks at them, unable to summon his usual wit.
This is what you do, David.
You want to know why you can't have her? Look in the mirror. Thompson leaves.
How bad is it? The surgeon turns to her with a classic doctor's detachment:
You're an educated man. You've read the Greek tragedies`. In the end Fate always wins... David looks back at him in steely silence.
It a sprain.
Really?
This time.
Walk away. If you truly love her, walk away. She'll hate you for it...but that way she'll be able to let you go quickly. You can give her that at least.
It's a sprain! It's just a sprain! David gives her a tight hug.
It's going to be okay. The doctor said it would heal in' a month. . .maybe even less.
You're going to: be fine.
They want to do an MRI...to assess the ligament. damage but.: -. They break from them hug.
It's; going to be fine. And as incredible of a dancer as you already are, yot're just going to get better and better... DavidV;embraces her again, so she won't see the tears welling in his eyes.
I...I have to go make a few calls. His voice cracks. Elise notices.
You okay?
I'm just...happy for you...
You're doing the right thing, David. Not just for her, and the world. . .but for yourself. David looks at him for a beat, then turns and walks away into the night.
How's he doing?
They still love him... Papers? The aide hands Charlie a stack of papers: three local papers, the Times, the Journal, and the three big NYC tabloids.
Thanks.
The aide leaves. Charlie glances at the front page of the Times, then reaches for the New York / Region section. As he does the front page of the Arts section catches his eye. There is a big photo of Elise, doing an "airborne split," accompanying an article titled "Dance Takes a Quantum Leap." Charlie glances through the window at David who is climbing down from the pickup truck to applause from his parking lot audience.
As he makes his way, towards the diner'f-tom the parking lot, shaking handb and allowing his picture to be taken.
I'm started.
I'm going to show you this because you'd find out eventually and because I want to be here when you do. Charlie turns the Arts section around for David to see it. Elise's photo has a noticeable impact on David. He glances at the article for a moment. Then Charlie points down near the bottom, at a particular
"The show's choreographer, Adrian Troussant, and lead dancer, Elise Sellas, are partners on and off stage and plan to marry in New York next week." David stares at the words...
David?  David?
I think I need... I...
Take a day off. Take a couple. We're sixteen points up.
Do you still serve neighborhood guys here or just the tourists? The bartender smiles big. A couple people at the bar notice him. Then others notice and they start whooping it up for him. He doesn't know any of them-but they sure know him.
There are no walls to this structure so rainwater pours off the roof on all four sides forming virtual walls. A figure in a suit approaches David from behind. He turns to see the man.
Why are you here? REVERSE to REVEAL Harry, in a suit and raincoat.
I would have come earlier but I had to wait for the rain.  Water interferes with their ability to sense your decision tree. That's why we met on a boat last time.
About what?
Thompson was lying when he said they couldn't let you be with 8lise because :it would bring out your reckless side.
Why, then? Why do they care so much?
8ecause.,..she's enough, David. If you have =her r tau rtt .ght not need to fill the d side you with votes and ataplause'and dreams of one day becoming p sident... if Harry has:looked straight into David's soul.
I've watched you a long time. They're right to want you in the White House. It would be good for the world. That's important but it can't be the only thing that matters.
Why are you so different than they are?
A long beat, then:
You know, your Dad was a smart man. He could have been a lot more -- and he wanted to be. So did your brother. But the Plan didn't call for that. This hits David hard.
In my job, you implement the Plan...
My mom?
That wasn't me... that wasn't us at all. David takes all this in. After a;long be t he takes a drink. Then he offers the bottle to Harry, who h a esitates, then takes a drink as well.
When Thompson told methe choice as Elise or the White House I barely hesitated.
But the trt t i `is after making that choice I went into a free-fall... Don't get=me wrong, it killed me to see Thompson hurt her...but I used it as an excuse. I think I left her more to save my career than hers.
The public loves you.
Before I met Elise that was all that mattered. Now I hardly notice. She's all I think about.
Front of a judge. Tomorrow morning.
Is she happy with him? Tell me she is and I'll walk away.
Thompson won't let you get near that courthouse.
Harry... is she happy?
No. A beat.
I have to get her back.. Harry knows how unlikely that is.
Will you help me: Just help me get to her...
They'll sense )tOu coming a mile away.'
What if Icould move as fast as you can?
What do you mean?
Teach me about the doors.
How do you know about that?
The first day, after they caught me, they carried me through one.I thought it was a hallucination at first. Eventually I realized it's how you move around so fast.  If you don't want to help me because of what they'll do to you...okay, that's your choice. But if this is about protecting me then shouldn't the choice be mine?
Do you have any idea how complicated it is to navigate through those doors... how many thousands of permutations there are in even a simple several block journey?
You know, when I do town hall meetings I usually get introduced to forty or fifty people between when I walk, through' the door and when I start speaking. But when I'm done with the speech I can call on each one of them by `game. A beat...
I've seen you do that  The rain is supposed to stop in the nexthou'r. We're going to need all night to do this. And we're going to need aplace surrounded by water to do it.
Harry and David stand outside a door to a dock office at the end of the pier. Harry dons his hat.
Put your hand on my shoulder. And don't let go until we've crossed the threshold.
David complies. Harry opens the door.
Are they ever locked?
Maybe if you have a defective hat. They step through the door and onto--
Hurry. Harry runs David to the front dooraf a brownstone. Opens the door. They move through i into--
We're underneath Canal Street, which c as ,,A canal before rt, was a street. This is the jcity's':pumping station for downtown Manhattan. We're ten blocks from the courthouse.
Floor open?
 You okay, sweetie?
I just feel like being on the floor.
Everything still on for tomorrow? Elise nods, trying to cover her ambivalence.
Harry rolls out a block-by-block map of lower Manhattan. There are intricate red pen markings all over the map..
Lower Manhattan is a nightmare. Layer upon layer of substrate -- that's what we call the system of doors -- has been added over time. That makes it a lot more complex to navigate down here than it is uptown. And a lot slower. Harry dumps out several hundred photos of doors, interior and
You ready?
Let's go. Harry smiles and hblds,.up a photograph of.the Manhattan County Court Building in Foley Squa:e:.
Your destination. Courtroom Six.
 North Moore St. Just south of the coffee shop... Red door. I come out on Broadway, near Leonard St. Harry looks at a photo of what David just described.
Good. Keep going.
(eyes closed, trying to
There's an alley in front of me. Third door on--
Thompson's there.
Okay ...so...  I hightail it East-to Lafayette no, it's Crosby Street there. Elise dances.
one wearing a hat Is. a threat. vv1Le. h e rea lizes w hat' = g oin g on , Thompson is gong to pull out all the stops. H going to get reinforcement Jots of them. I don't care if u'see a auv wearing a Yankees ca a"yarmulke, or a bowler, as he's working for them.
Okay, you said he's right in front of me, right? Harry nods.
I'd knock the Yankees cap off his head and go through the door before he has a chance to pick it up... A thinsmile forms on Harry's face and grows...
Good... good... improvisation. We have trouble with that...
How am I doing?
Don't get cocky. You know ten permutations out of ten thousand. Get back to work.
Harry drilling David with photd'after photo of Manhattan doors INTERCUT with Elise dancing ...until she finally quits from physical and emotional exhaustion.
Yourbrain can only put so much in at once. Take- a brreak. Da :} , nods. His eyg6,0s' to: Harry' s leather Planbook. He btio#ts to it -- a question: can he look at it., Harry opens tt up to a page in the middle. David's eyes look over the impossibly complex circ$t diagram.
Could I ever learn to read that? Harry shakes his head. Impossible.
No matter how hard I tried?
For the same reason you can't breathe underwater or flap your arms and fly. You're not built to do it.
 Is that me?
Elise. Her decision tree. What it was a few hours ago, before the rain, before we were down here. David looks at it, then looks away.
I want to ask you what it says.. .what she's thinking.. .bit somehow that feels ...wrong.
You know what she's thinkin-g,'David -- as much as you need to know. The rest ...well...you're`built to feel that.
ready to get back to work? Sometl`ing about that strikes Harry...
Your father used to say that. Off David's reaction--
The fastest path is getting to the blue door right off the bat...
But you're exposed the whole way there. It's a lot riskier than leapfrogging through doors--
But if I can make it...I'.Il have caught them completely bysurprise.
Assuming you make it.
Do you have your license? Adrian hands her his marriage license.
Is your fiancee here?
Getting out of a cab downstairs. The registrar glances at the license to make sure it's in order. Then stamps it: "Judge Williams, Docket #23".
Courtroom Six.
You got lucky. It's raining again.
The marriage is scheduled for ten minutes from now.
You can't jump the gun on this,,.. Getting there too early is almost as bad as getting there too late. Harry looks at his updated Planbook and consults his watch.
It ',.t time. David breathes a sigh of relief. Harry takes the hat off h1znrhead wand hands it to -David.
I'm going for the blue door.
Of course... MUSIC CUE (something with relentless, pounding energy of the Verve Remix of Sarah Vaughn's "Fever").
Run fast.
It was a momentary flash, and given the weather we can't be sure, but it looks like Mr. Norris may be--
Do we have a proctor -at the wedding?!
Hi, honey.  You okay?
Just a little queasy.
Why?
I'm not sure. Nervous... I just need a minute in the bathroom.
Cars! Cars! From here it's faster in the cars!
 Where is heribw?!
They jump in and the car peels out, followed by two others.
Whoa!
What? Thompson's Aide is speechless as he stares at his Planbook.
What?
He just went into the substrate... Off Thompson's reaction:
Docket #22 please come forward The guy next to Adrian stands up. Adrian: throws a panicked look at Lauren.
We're next. Will you check on her?
It's an emergency.
We all have emergencies, pal.
Am I making the biggest mistake of my life?
If you have doubts-- I'm okay.
I'm just nervous. You haven't done this yet. It's overwhelming...
I'm okay. I'm going to clean up. Tell Adrian I'll be right there.
Congressman! You left. your--
Docket #23 please come forward. Adrian looks at Lauren. Stands. Motions urgently for Lauren to get Elise from the bathroom--
David?!
Where is she? Water drips from his clothes onto the marble floor.
You want to explain to me--
Hi...
Why are you doing this to me? Just then the door bursts open. The suspicious man from the
David elbows him in the face. The man drops.
David!
David calmly turns back to her.
You're not supposed to be weeping on your wedding day, Elise. Elise fights the emotion again welling inside.
You were never happy with Adrian. You told me that. Elise puts her head in her hands.
This is so screwed up. Oh,-God..
I love you. I know I've acted strangely. But, I love you.
Don't do this to me.
I've never felt anything like. this in my life.
If you care 'so much, why the hell did you disappear on me in that hospital?
What are you ha.d1 g from me? Why did you diS pp`ear " Again! You fucking bastard! Why? Tears are streaming down her face.
They'll reset me...
They'll scramble my brain--
David, stop talking like this! Stop!
David looks back at her... Just looks at her. Then he leans over and wipes a tear from her face. And he decides... He just decides.
But at least you'll know the truth.
It's not in their "Plan" for us to be together. So they're trying to stop us.
Oh myGod... He just revealed us.
Stop talking like a crazy person. Stop making things up--
They said if we were together they'`d take dance from you and politic,s,from me. They hurt your ankle that night. They-- The door flies open again. David picks up a trash can and clobbers the fedora-wearing man who enters. He drops.
Call the Intervention Team! Tell them it's a square-one reset!
Jesus.. .the cops are after you?! David grabs the shield and uses it to wedge the door closed. Kicks it in so it's jammed tight.
He's not a cop. He's one of them. Another body slams into the door now. But the shield holds it shut.
Who's "them?" SLAM! SLAM! The door cracks--
Jesus, David!. What's going on?! David is impossibly calm. He puts his hat back on.
I'm going to: show you. He takes Elise's hand, opens the bathroom door, and walks her across the threshold into--
Come on... We need to lose them. David walks her across the street and picks a door at random,
Elise steps out onto the grass, touches it, falls to her knees in the rain, completely overwhelmed...
The rain slows them down but they can track us. We have two orthree minutes. Maybe less. Elise is still speechless. He takes her hand.
The ten year-old in me always mixed up winning elections with being loved. Then I met` you;,..
Now you know. Youknota everything. And you have to leave mitie.
They'll take` dance from you. You saw what they-'did before. 'fihe foundations of her world have just collapsed... but somehow she pulls herself together to say this:
No.
You're not safe with me. If you
She puts her finger to his lip. Shhhh...
It doesn't make any sense but, right now I feel safer than I've ever felt before.
Mr. Thompson has made an emergency request for the Intervention Team.. One of the folio .::documents is titled "Reset Authorization."
Every door? tavid nods...as they walk into another...
Elise looks out at the harbor and the city. Rain pelts her face. And she smiles. Exhilarated. Like a prisoner who has just broken her chains...
Let's go.
We can't keep running forever,. David.
If they find us ...they'll take you from me.
I won't let..them.
They'll take you from here. David touches his head'.
No, I won't let them. She leans,-.over and kisses hi's forehead.
Perfect. David picks a door. It's locked. He tries another. It's
locked too. He tries a third. Locked. Elise tries shakes her head.
They're not supposed to be locked! David hears sounds coming from the building's central staircase. He looks down it to see four men in silver suits climbing up the stairs.
DING. The elevator door down the hall opens. More men in silver suits.
This one's open! Elise is standing at the door to the roof. David runs to her and they go up the stairs together to--
They rush to the edge of the roof. ,Three Con Edison vans are parked haphazardly on the street below. And a dozen civilians on the sidewalk are frozen..11: ; David grabs Elise and they go to the side of the roof, the roof of the building next door is ten feet below them. They hang their legs over the edge and jump. They sprint across the roof of the building next door -- except somehow they find themselves running across the same roof they were just on. David sees the concrete blocks he placed against the door a moment ago. The door bangs against theme being shoved open from inside. David and Elise run back in the c5,pposite direction. At the building's edge they climb over again and... run... Only to find that theyare still on the first roof they were on. It's like they're in an.Escher painting. They stop, and look at each other. David takes her hand as Adjustment Team trsapers appear all around them from adjacent roofs. They're completely surrounded.
Kiss me. Tears well in her eyes. And his.
Close your eyes and kiss me. He does. And they kiss in the rain...
I love you, David Norris.
They hold each other for a long beat ... . and then, finally, open their eyes.. .ready to accept their fate-- They see an empty roof. The Silver Suits are gone. And the rain has stopped. A strange silence envelopes them... They spin the other direction to see The Chairman, standing there, alone.
Hello, David... Good morning, Elise. His voice is gentle, paternal.
Who are you?
I think you know. David and Elise stand in awe'-'as they realize.
You can't oti{rn Fate... Tft , CHAIRMAN It's .more- complicated t,}an that, Fate am Free Will coexist They're;in tension with each other. And pure chance. A beat. David looks back at him...
I could control 'everything. You'd be ha` 3 ou' d be puppets. I try to .keep things from getting too out of control. But that has a cost. Most people go through life like pinballs, reacting predictably to the stimuli I apply. They accept the path they find themselves on. And perform accordingly. But every once in a while someone comes along who refuses to be bound by his fate, someone who understands that Free Will is a gift most people are too afraid to use.
THE CHAIRMAN Or maybe you don't see it. Maybe you just feel it. And that's even better. Because that's the other part. David and Elise take it in...
And all the misery, all the pain...
I sit up there and I watch it and it hurts me... . but if you could see the incredible courage people show, the random acts of kindness, the love... If you could see huitan beings choosing every moment every day to be better thAn'' I made them, you would know it's all worthwhile.
Their case isclosed.
Not anymc3e . David and Elise watc]i The Chairman walk away, still awed by what=they've just experienced. As He disappears around a corner, the sun comes out from behind the clouds ... After a long beat, Elise turns back to David, as if to say "what do we do now?"
Maybe we should go dancing. A smile slowly spreads across her face ...
