The advent of the Soviet nuclear capability ushers in a dangerous phase of the Cold War as the decade of the 1950s looms.  Stung by this Soviet challenge and the rapid race to develop ever more sophisticated weapons, the United States resurrects maverick Professor Toichi Hikita's work in electromagnetic particle acceleration...despite the dismal record of failure that has dogged the project.
Doctor Masado Banzai, preeminent Japanese quantum theorist, declares himself anxious to work for the Allies.  Enamored of the great American West, Banzai sires a precocious son and tags the tiny child "Buckaroo." A tribute to his adopted homeland.
And thus given a second chance after his secret pre-war laboratory disaster at Princeton, Doctor Hikita finds new life at the Texas School of Mines, where he assembles a team of crack scientists willing to gamble he's right in his bold assertion that man can indeed pass unharmed through solid matter.
Sir Alan Motley of Cambridge, a brainy, affable limey, co-developer with Whitehead and Lord Russell of the world's most advanced theoretical gravity catapult...
Dr. Sandra Banzai, Texas-born pioneer in Negative Mass Propulsion ...wife of Dr. Masado Banzai.
THIRTY YEARS LATER
Power source output, zero-zero-niner.  Multi-stage axial compressor latched.
Fuel pressure, 1800 torrs.  Oxygenation.
You're kidding. Where is he?  Still in the hospital?
Banzai hasn't showed yet, Mr. Secretary. Looks like he's got cold feet.
Better see what's keepin' the boss, Reno.
Why me?
'Cause I'm busy.  And get your clodhoppers off the UNIVAC.
Rawhide, it's for you.
I'll ask him.  Buckaroo, I need an estimate.  They're getting antsy over at Mission Control.
Another ten minutes down here, Rawhide.
 The chief needs ten more minutes.  I got the chopper waiting.  Don't start without us.
So where's Buckaroo?
 Whadda you need Buckaroo for?
Unscheduled surgery.  He'll be waltzing along momentarily.  What're you doing tonight?
 Flying to Cambodia.
That's why I wear a fifty dollar hat.  Was a two hundred dollar hat, I hadda kill you.
Bet you say that to all the girls, Perfect Tommy.
Bet I do.
Jesus Christ...how does the man find enough hours in the day?
We help.
Dr. Banzai's using a laser to fuse artificial nerve fiber to the original, bypassing massive stroke damage.  A subcutaneous microphone's gonna allow the patient to transmit verbal instructions to his own brain.
What, like "raise my left arm"?
Or "throw the harpoon," depending on cultural differences. People are gonna come from all over. This guy's an Eskimo.
Okay...right...okay, I see...next time I'll be able to...
There may not be a next time.
Look...I'm sorry...calling for help in the middle of an operation...but I just lost my nerve...I panicked...again.
You've got the God-given tools to be a success in any field of endeavor, Dr. Zwibel.  Ever thought about joining me full-time?
Are you serious?  Have you have an opening?
Can you sing?
A little. I can dance.
Inertial Control positive.  T minus seven zero and resume counting.
All systems righteous.  Professor Hikita says we have to go.
I've got a budget meeting on the hill, John.  What's this thing supposed to do anyway?
Three hundred miles an hour, General.
Senator, you are so fulla shit.
Final contact is made.
Point of no return...five, four, three, two...
...one.
Too bad war ain't Indianapolis.  It's fast, I'll give Banzai that.
Perhaps an idea whose time has come, General?  Scoot over.
It'll never work.  It's too simple.
Now twenty seconds downrange...Perfect Tommy, how on earth is Buckaroo able to keep that thing on the ground?
She's just a damn road hugger, Allison.  Plus the man can drive.
Approaching thirty seconds downrange Three zero.  Course steady.  Speed three one seven nautical-four hundred...
So what?  Big deal.  Anybody can drive fast in a straight line.
Buckaroo, do you read?
Advise you abort.  Over.  Repeat: advise abort.
That's a big "no can do".
The Jet Car off the road!  Radio contact with Mission Control here severed...that firestorm apparently interfering with communications...Buckaroo Banzai in serious trouble.
Either that or he's popped his cookies.
Mach 1.  Buckaroo!  Do you read?  Commence braking procedure!  Over!
Eject, Buckaroo! EJECT!
Professor Hikita, what'd he say?
 He said, "This Bud's for you, Professor."  What does that mean?
Looks like Banzai's finally gonna get more than he bargained for.  And take the friends of the Earth with him.
It's off my scope!
What the devil?  What is going on?!
 He's through it!  He's gone through the mountain without a scratch! Oh, my God!  Oh, my God in Heaven!
Banzai!
Chute negative.  I'm gonna try and lay her sideways.
This his frequency?  Nobody's home.
Buckaroo!  Did you seem them?  Did you?
See 'em?  They about had me and the whole damn car for breakfast. Broke my windshield...
 The creatures?  They attacked you?  They tried to possess you?
Creatures?  Buckaroo, Catburd here.  I got egg all over my face, but that's okay. No room for egos here.  We're all Americans and I wanna buy that thing of yours.  What's it gonna run me?
Not for sale.
I wasn't talking to you, Hikita san.
She's not for sale, right, General?
 The Overthruster! The Overthruster!
 The Overthruster!
Almost ready, Dr. Lizardo...almost...
More!  More!
Not so fast...
Cheer up, Lizardo, it's Friday.  I come for your TV.  You been using too damn much juice...ten thousand kilowatts again this month.  Beats me how one old homicidal loony could use that much power.
I want my TV...don't take my TV...I want it.  I want the Overthruster. I want it.
Five...four...three...two...one.
I'm starving...somebody, help.
Got a half a tuna sandwich.
Same one you had yesterday?
Smells fermented.  Check in with the Institute, Reno, see if everything's kosher.
Buckaroo, I've done an advanced spectrograph analysis on the specimen you pulled off the Jet Car drive shaft.
And there's a two-hundred-dollar deductible we have to eat on that crack in her windshield.
Figures.  Anybody seen my scope?
Coming right up, Buckaroo.
Anybody we know?
Who put this dirty picture in Buckaroo's viewer?
I ran it through the centrifuge, but I came up blank.  It's definitely dead now, although it still conducts electricity even better than copper does.
Super performance organic material.
Yes, Perfect Tommy, in a way.  However...  ...notice...although certain components resist identification, it corresponds very closely to an ordinary praying mantis.
 Too closely.  Gotta be more than sheer coincidence.  Rawhide, you're keen on bugs.  What do you think?
Everything's copacetic at the Institute, Buckaroo.  Sam's with the Jet Car and she's under lock and key.  He's retiming her valves.
Buckaroo, you got a minute--?
Not really.  This is pretty important.
She wants a picture.
I don't care who you are...when you play my joint, you're just another band. I want some music outta you characters.
You want it, Artie? You got it.
Everybody ready?  How do we look?  Do we look okay?
I look great.  Let's rock 'n' roll.
No question about it.  Something very akin to arachnoid tissue.  If I hadda guess?  A mutated species.
Ladies and gentlemen, Artie's Artery is proud to present, for one night only...the one, the only, the amazing Buckaroo Banzai and his Hong Kong Cavaliers!
I heard somebody crying.  I said is someone out there crying in the darkness?
Here...here at the back. I'm sorry...
Raise your hand...where?
 This is so embarrassing...
Somebody get her a mike? Can we manage that?  And a spotlight.  What's your name?
Penny.  I'd rather not reveal my last name or my age.
Did you say..."Peggy"?
My name is Penny. Penny Priddy.  There I've said it, but it won't mean anything to you.  I'm a nobody.
Nobody's a nobody.  Why're you crying?  What's wrong?
 Did I say anything was wrong? I just sponged up a little too much Vat 69, okay? I'm down to my last nickel in this lousy town, I can't get my luggage outta hock 'cause I met this jerk who said he was a record producer when all he had was a record.  He offered to set me up for life, and like a fool, well, I...
He offered you money?
Do I look like that kinda girl?  I lost my room this morning.  I don't know where I'm gonna sleep tonight, but I keep going.  What the hell else can I do?  I've still got my figure, and like this bozo said, as long as there's a sidewalk, I'll always have a job.
Remember it's always darkest just before the dawn.  Believe me, I've been there.
This song's for Peggy.  And all you others out there a little down on your luck.
 My name's, Penny!  But who cares?
Let me go, let me go, you creeps...
Everybody okay up here?
Arrest the girl!  Let's get this thing on the road, huh?
Where do you think you're going, doc? The moon?
Operator! I wanna place a person-to-person call to John Bigboote, Yoyodyne Propulsions Systems.  Grover's Mill, New Jersey. Tell him it's John Whorfin calling. That's W-H-O-R-F-I-N. Got it, honey? John! J-O-H- N!
 Of course it's me, John Bigboote, you fool! Prepare for my return!  The time has come.  Haven't you heard? Don't you watch TV? Banzai and Hikita have done it! I'll meet you at the factory.  Get that overthruster!  And the little Jap!  Alive!  Banzai's too dangerous.
Pick those up, Reno.
I didn't drop 'em.
It's a spittin' image.
Doesn't look anything like her to me.
Pictures don't lie.
Hell they don't. I met my first wife that way.
It's Peggy to these eyes.  Same nose, same hair.  Plus Buckaroo thinks so too or else he wouldn't be ready to go make a fool of himself, right?
Hot off the World Watch Wire, Buckaroo. Thought you'd wanna be notified. That old pal of the professor's, Dr. Emilio Lizardo?  The one you did the brain scan on--?  He killed a guard last night, broke outta the Trenton Home for the Criminally Insane, stole a Masarati, totaled it a block away.
print-out.
Then what?
Vanished. Thin air.
Doctor Lizardo. Wasn't he on TV once?
You're thinking of Mr. Wizard.  This guy's an eccentric genius.
Hey, so was Mr. Wizard.
Dr. Lizardo's a raving lunatic, Perfect Tommy, a vicious psychopath with crazy eyes and flaming orange hair that once upon a time was mousy brown like yours.
Have you warned Professor Hikita?
First thing I did.
 Why?  What's going on?  Anything I oughta know?  C'mon, Rawhide, spill it.
The professor and Dr. Emilio Lizardo were actually the first to discover the Eighth Dimension.  Almost fifty years ago.  Before Buckaroo's parents even knew each other.  But there was trouble, a rocket catapult failed and Dr. Lizardo got sucked half in, half out...when they hauled him back ,he wasn't the same guy.  His hair was orange...
And his soul black as the Ace of Spades.
He went on a senseless crime spree, killed a cop during a bank robbery, got caught and judged insane.  The professor told us they threw away the key.
Hey, any lock can be picked.  So what's he up to?
I'm sure we'll find out soon enough.
And another thing.  Somebody took five bucks outta petty cash without signing.
Wasn't me.  I'd take a hundred, right?
Doubt it.  Check NORAD command.  Could be a volcanic ash cloud.  Work her up statistically, check it for the next twenty-four hours, then shovel the data over to Reno.
Howdy, Buckaroo.  Got your message about rendezvousing here.  Barely had time to pack my saddlebags.
Sid, welcome aboard.  Fellas, meet a medical colleague, Sid Zwibel.  He'll be riding with us from now on, so get acquainted while I snoop around.
The name's Reno.  This here's Perfect Tommy.
Where do you hail from, Doc?
 New Jersey!
Where's your spurs at?
You making fun of me?
Reno, how's about you take New Jersey's gear, mosey on over to the bus and introduce him to the rest of the hands.
Why me?
Cause Buckaroo needs me here.
Follow me, pard'ner.
What're you doing here? Why're you looking at me like that?
I guess 'cause you remind me of someone I once knew, long ago before any of this craziness.
Go away.  Let me rot?
Who were you really trying to kill last night?
You.  Like the papers all say.
Pretty terrible shot.
Was she pretty?
Who?
The girl I remind you of.
She was the Queen of the Netherlands.
It's kinda hard this way.
I'd turn around, but I'm afraid you'd strangle me.
The Netherlands.  Whew, that's a long way from Wyoming.
Wyoming? Not Cody, by any chance?
No.  Laramie.  Except I was born in Cody. How did you know that?  Oh, right, sure, I forgot: you know everything.
No, I don't.
Having a little trouble with that knot, aren't you?
Which?  The one in my throat.
Did you have family there--? A sister?  In Cody?
I don't know. I always felt like I did, like there was another me...
Another 'you'?
Somewhere.  See I was taken away by the Priddies when I was a baby.  I was adopted.
Adopted.  I should have know. Of course. If it was a snake, it'd bit me!
What?  I don't understand you.  I don't understand anything anymore.
Who does?  It's a crazy mixed-up world.  Just do the best you can with what you have...
Running a little late, Buckaroo.
Let her out. In my custody.
Let her out?  She's a killer.
No she's not.
Rawhide tells me Dr. Lizardo escaped...
 I'm assigning a couple Blue Shields to protect you around the clock, just in case.
Mr. Secretary...Senator Cunningham, ladies and gentlemen...thirty years ago, nearly to this day, my mother and father and Sir Alan Motley, all former colleagues of Professor Toichi Hikita at the Texas School of Mines, gave their lives for what was considered at the time an insane notion: the possibility of contacting alien life... not on another planet, but on a simultaneous plane of existence within solid matter...life which, before the war, Professor Hikita had actually glimpsed while pioneering a highly primitive gravity catapult with Doctor Emilio Lizardo.
The same Doctor Lizardo that just...?
One and the same.
I don't wanna go get too technical here, ladies and gentlemen, but I'm talking twister physics.  Quantum Mechanics.  Now you see, now you don't.  This table I'm sitting behind?  It appears to be solid matter, right?
But in point of fact, the solid parts of this table... the protons, quarks, your neutrons and electrons...they comprise only about one quadrillionth of its total volume.
Exactly.  So the professor here, way back in 1937, figured that if solid matter is mostly empty space, a person oughta be able to discover a to travel inside things like tables.  And mountains.
We at the Banzai Institute have at last found that way: an alternating gradient synchronizer that softens solid matter by attenuating its electroweak forces!
Which we all know are the forces that tend to pull objects part, right, professor?
What about the Pentagon?  The possibility of war in the Eighth Dimension, Mr. Secretary?
Hey, better there than here, huh?
The president of what?
Is he still delirious?
In 1942, a U.S. Navy frigate, number 7541, disappeared on a clear day in the North Atlantic. Long thought to have been torpedoed, these pictures of 7541 were taken yesterday in the Eighth Dimension.
Next transparency, please.
Buckaroo, don't forget your thruster.
You keep an eye on it.
Any time.
Mr. President--? You there?
Mr. President--?  Some kind of interference...I can't...
Maybe it's just a prankster. Some computer whiz kid.
Whoever it was they used the Blue Code, Alpha Clearance.
 Go back to the bus and reroute the call.
And try the President's private number at the hospital.  Make sure this is on the level. We're busy people here.
Pencil!  Quick!  Pen!  Anything!
Let me ask you to imagine the Oscillation Overthruster as a sophisticated rifle accelerator firing a steady stream of protons at a target-in this case a mountain-and the Jet Car as a giant super- conducting magnet.
 I don't guess they matter.  It's like cheesecloth, I think.  Minkowiski space...
There!  Those two!  Don't panic...
Whadda you mean, Buckaroo?  Where?  What?
Evil...pure and simple, from the eighth dimension! Grab 'em!
Arachtoids! Stop 'em!
Arachtoids?
Okay, wise guys!
Let those gun belts hit the floor! And nobody follows, or the prof is history!
Is this the kind of society you want?  A society of weak-kneed jellyfish wallowing in self-pity, prey to ruthless hoodlums who pick us off like flies?
Or a society where we stand strong, take charge of our own destiny, with the cry "So far and no farther will we be pushed!"
Hey, you can't ride that!
Any sign of Buckaroo?
No!  Ditto the professor-
Shit!
My God!  What the hell...
Jesus Christ--!  What is it?
It's the latest issue!
What? A black ship?  Where?  A black thermopod's been shot down ten miles back.
A black thermopod here?  On Earth?!  Why, John Gomez?  Why?
John Whorfin...maybe they know he's escaped!
How?  How could they possibly know?  They're more than three trillion six hundred sixty million miles away.
 They know everything!  I told Whorfin to sit tight.  This could be the end of us all!  We gotta get Banzai's Overthruster and get off this rock!
Where was it, John O'Connor? How far back?
I have a radio fix...
Death to the enemy!
Death to the enemy--!  Kill or die!
Rawhide.  Come in.  Over.
Over, Buckaroo.  What's up?  Where in Hades are you?  I'm getting a lotta static.
That's me. I've been ionized, but I'm okay. I'm, switching on the homing beacon, mark two minute intervals.
Buckaroo, somebody shanghaied the Professor!
The deuce you say.  That crate!
What crate?
I think I'm on to something. You and the guys go back to the house and dig up everything you can on an outfit called Yoyodyne.
 Yoyodyne Propulsion Systems?  You think they're mixed up in this?
How long you been riding with Buckaroo, Reno?
Nigh on ten years.  Been through a lotta scrapes together.
What'd you do before?  Can I ask?
Government work.  Had my own think tank.  Got tired of thinking-wanted some action.  Seen plenty of it too.  So will you if you stick around.
Where's Buckaroo?  Is he alive?
Course he's alive.  He's Buckaroo Banzai.
All right.  Let's go!  We got our work cut out for us tonight!
You, too, Miss Penny.
No thanks, I'm driving.
Hand me that tarp. Let's cover this guy...
What guy? He's got paws.
John Bigboot, Officer. Executive Vice President, Yoyodyne Propulsion Systems.
 One of our birds.
That fella over there-that one of yours, too, is it?
The droid, you mean?
Button up in there, Professor, if you know what's good for you.
Nice night, huh?
Looks like nothing I ever seen. I seen droids in space movies, but they're nothing like this-
It's a three-man thermopod...
Thermopod?  What's a...
Very T.S.  Top Secret, right John Gomez?
Yeah, well, I was gonna call Buckaroo Banzai out here to have a look. Right up his alley, I think.
You called Buckaroo Banzai?
Not yet.  I said I was gonna.
Go on!  Keep it moving!
We got a truck on the way to mop things up for you.  Else this place could become a zoo, not to mention a haven for gawkers.
We'll just go ahead and start breaking it down.
Don't touch it!  I got my own help on the way!  That's an order!
There's a crowbar in the truck.
Buckaroo!  What the Sam Hill!
Careful...don't make noise and don't touch me.  I'm hotter than flapjacks.
What?
I'm a giant semi-conductor, and there's alien creatures all around us. Form the Eighth Dimension, I think.  Look...
You can see them?
Ever since that phony phone call from the President.  Look at this. What is it?
It's your hand, Buckaroo.
It's an antidote. A formula.  Whoever it was on the phone made me scribble this and gave me the ability to penetrate their disguises.
Antidote to what?  Whose disguises?
Arachtoids.  From Planet Ten.
Planet 10?
 There's a Harley behind those bushes.  Get back to the laboratory and start working on the formula.  We don't have time to ask questions. Just synthesize it-
Buckaroo, the formula--
Hurry!  Please.
If you're gonna stay, you're gonna be under arrest.  It's your choice.
Twelve minutes since the last signal. Long time.
Too long.  We better get somebody over there.  Put up the grid, last known location--
Hop on the Marconi, see if we got any Blue Shields within a ten-minute radius.
Done.
Open it!
Repeat: Intrastate Outward Band 5...Coded...calling all Blue Shield Irregulars in the Clam State.  Bucakroo in trouble...will repeat coordinates...
This is Scooter Lindley, Future Knight of the Blue Shield 411/2. Hang on!
Dad! Dad! Buckaroo's in trouble!
Say what?!
Trouble?
Nah-Damn sophisticated equipment always breaking down.
What's his problem?
Perfect Tommy's just threatened by smart women.  Can you play that thing?
Better than him.
Whadda you think you're doing?  Hey!
I said back off!  I mean it.  Now get in your car and get the hell outta here!
Peggy--!?  Oh, wow...no...
She's not Peggy, Mrs. Johnson--
Not Peggy--!  Of course not. How could she be, huh?  Whew.
Any word from Buckaroo?
No...I thought he was with you guys...
Hi, fellas...gonna lay down some background vocals tonight?
Wish life was so simple, Billy.  Remember that outfit the Justice Department checked into last year-Yoyodyne Propulsion Systems?
The big space and weapons high tech consortium way behind on their delivery of the controversial new Truncheon Bomber?
You got her.  Buckaroo's orders: access their data bank.  Attack their systems.  Up to it?
I'm a little short-handed tonight.  My phone phreaks went into town for the big ice cream social...
So we'll help.  Let's get crackin'!
Who're you?
Detonator set.  My most profuse apologies to my homeland and loved ones.  John Valuk is dead.  He fell on his head, but perhaps John Parker will get through!
But what if John Parker too is dead?  Then we must send another thermopod at once to contact Buckaroo Banzai!
That's it, gentlemen, you're all under...
Easy, friend-
Buckaroo Banzai--!
 It's Buckaroo Banzai! Get him! He let the professor outta the box!
Forgive the butterfingers, Buckaroo.  Casper Lindley, Knight of the Blue Shield, at your disposal.  And my son, Scooter.
Nothing to apologize for, Casper.  You've gone beyond the call of duty tonight.  Mind if I get on the horn and radio the Cavaliers--?  They'll be worried.
Not the famous Scooter....?
Wow.  You know it.
The prof just rolled in.  Says he's on his way to the lab and "Do not disturb."
Try a new cipher.  Try G.
G cipher. There!  More like it!
Nice work, kid.
Looks like we've accessed their Read Only Memory...a personnel file. Could be highly revealing.
 The professor just pulled in, jabbering something about space monsters, locked himself in his lab.
"Space monsters"...my ass.
I'm sure the boys like you.  They just don't wanna get attached...and then see what happened to Buckaroo's last sweetheart happen to you.
What happened to her?
You know any judo?
Any what?
Don't worry, I won't hurt you.
What's up those stairs?
Bunkhouse.  Off limits.  You'll be bedding down in here.
This is queer...look...
All these people applied for drivers' licenses in the same town in New Jersey on the exact same date.
New Jersey?
Forty-six Yoyodyne employees.  Grover's Mill, New Jersey, 11/1/38.
Grover's Mills, Grovers' Mills...1938.  Why's that so darn familiar?
Looks like none of these guys ever lived anywhere else.  No places of birth.  And all of them with the same first name: John.
November 1, thirty days have September, April, June, and November...when short February's done, all the rest have thirty-one. October 31st!  Halloween!  Don't you get it?  Orson Welles!
You mean the guy from the old wine commercials?
Halloween. 1938..."War of the Worlds"...that fake radio news broadcast that got everybody scared, thinking that real live Martians were landing in Grover's Mill, New Jersey!  But then it all just turned out to be a hoax.
Then that's it!
What's it?
Right!  Hoax my eye!
You mean--?  No!
Yes!  Martians!  Right across the river in Grover's Mills!
Hi, buddy, what can I do for ya?
Buckaroo Banzai?
You a messenger? What've you got here?
I need see Buckaroo Banzai in person. My name is John Parker. Identify yourself.
Knight Commander, Pinky Carruthers. Sorry, John, all these people "need see" Buckaroo in person.
That's as far as you go, pal.
Okay, who's the funny guy?
Not here!  No Overthruster!
John Whorfin will kill us!
You look!  It's not here!
Professor Hikita!
Buckaroo!
Is the professor here? Where's Penny?
Both of 'em safe and sound. What's going on?  Everybody's freakin' out.
They're arachtoids, Buckaroo, from Planet 10!
What? How do you know that?
It's all on the record. Come on-
Planet 10?  The same Planet 10 you postulated beyond Pluto, Perfect Tommy?  The invisible body?
Yeah, but most of 'em blasted in through the Eighth Dimension in 1938 at Grover's Mills, New Jersey...
...where there was some kinda giant crash landing, a huge explosion and they fooled Orson Welles into covering it up!  And then they founded Yoyodyne Propulsion Systems and hid there for...
Orson Wells?  What about Doctor Lizardo?
Lizardo caused it all.  Because he was already here on earth, screwing around with his own stupid Overthruster.
Faulty design.  It sucked.
...but he wasn't the real Doctor Lizardo...just this arachtoid creep that stole the good doc's body the year before in the Eighth Dimension when Prof. Hikita's lab exploded...
Stole his body?  When Doctor Lizardo's hair turned red and his mind snapped?  Of course!  What else?
It wouldn't tell us the whole story until you got here.  It wasn't to talk to the head honcho.
It?  Who does?
Stand back, man...
Salutations, great Buckaroo Banzai.  I am John Emdall from Planet 10. A common grave danger confronts both our worlds.
Oh, wow...
After a bloody reign of terror, the hated leader of our military caste, the self-proclaimed "Lord" Whorfin, a bloodthirsty butcher as evil as your Hitler was overthrown by freedom-loving forces, tried, and condemned, along with several hundred of his followers, to spend eternity in the formless void of the Eighth Dimension. Death was deemed too good for their ilk.
Did you tell Penny Buckaroo wanted to see her?
She's not in her room...I looked.
Will everybody please shut up so I can hear this thing?
Were it not for the experiments of your father and Professor Hikita and the real Doctor Lizardo, then John Whorfin would still be locked safely away on another plane of existence.
"John Parker" I think he called himself, this Rasta man on a bike dressed up in aluminum foil.  With a weird album...how the hell was I supposed to know he came from outer space?
And now, you, Buckaroo Banzai, have unintentionally helped John Whorfin further with your Oscillation Overthruster! For our intelligence warns us that John Whorfin is about to make good his escape from Earth back through the Eighth Dimension...and on to Planet 10! If he should attempt this we will have no choice but to disrupt worldwide electronic communications and fire a particle beam weapon from your airspace to Smolensk, in the Union of the Soviet Socialist Republics.
An action the Kremlin will most certainly misinterpret as an American first strike!
Exactly, Perfect Tommy.  The Soviets will retaliate.  Your President Widmark will launch a massive counterforce strike...and within twenty minutes the danger to Planet 10 will be removed...
God, if it's not one thing it's another.
But...because we're good guys, we're giving you a chance to save your planet.  Stop John Whorfin before sunrise! If you fail we will be forced to help you destroy yourselves.  End of discussion.
She gotta be kiddin', right? Vaporize the whole damn planet--?
You wanna take the chance, Casper?
Not me. No way.
Rawhide, go find out how Professor Hikita's coming with that formula. Mrs. Johnson, take Casper and Scooter, gas up the Jet Car.
Wow, you know it!
Where're you goin'?
To get my guns.
His guns?  Holy shit.
Open up or I'll shoot it off.
I'll shoot yours off if I had a gun, you double-dealing Casanova!  I thought you liked me for myself.  But why should you, huh?  A jerk like me.
Penny, look-
You look.  Who is she?
That's kinda complicated to get into right now because the world's maybe coming to an end and I can't stand here and talk to a closet door.
Yeah, whose world is coming to an end?  You only wanted me because I remind you of her.
Penny, I was going to get into that, but I haven't had time...with arachtoids and all...but briefly she was your long lost twin sister, we got married, and that's about all I can say.  Right now.  Penny?
Married--?  So that's it!  Buckaroo Banzai, a married man.  Where is she?  With the kids some place?
She must've been a bigger fool than me if she ran out on a guy like you...
She was killed, Penny.
Oh, my.
Don't go to pieces.  I haven't got time tonight.
Looks like you're the one might go to pieces.
Where's my damn ammo?  Nothing is ever where it's supposed to be around here!
How did she die?  I wanna know.
You don't wanna know.
Yes, I do.  Gimme a chance.  I'm stronger than you think.
She was murdered by Hanoi Shan on our wedding night.
Hanoi Shan--?  The guy in your comic books.  Boss of the World Crime League?  Supreme Commander of the Legion of Death?  The Pivot of Mystery himself?  You're putting me on.  He's a cartoon character.
I wish he was.  He's real enough.
God, she's so young and beautiful.  I don't remember her at all.  Which I guess is good, under the circumstances.  I bet you'll never forget her though.
Never.
I gotta be honest with myself and not repress these feelings-I've got mixed emotions-I don't know if I can handle this.  Oh, boy...
I gotta go.  We're on borrowed time.
Go where?  Where're you going?
 Please, Penny.  You just gotta trust me now.  Okay?  And don't panic. Because it's gonna be all right.
What?  If we just believe in Buckaroo Banzai?
Yeah...and maybe more important, if you believe in yourself.
Believe in Penny Priddy?
Absolutely.
You've got your six guns strapped on.  You're ridding off on another adventure?  Oh, my God, it's all real...it really is real.  I should go with you.  Please...
It's too dangerous.
That's just what you would say.  This is so unreal.  I'm dreaming...
 Buckaroo--! Sorry--
What is it, Tommy?
Sam's dead!  Someone broke into the Jet Car! And things are going haywire over at the lab...
Stay here, I'll be back.
Sure.  I won't hold my breath.
Whadda you want?
Nothing right now, Penny Priddy.
Dead.  Damnit!
Where's the professor?
Where's Rawhide?
Who'd do a thing like this?
Arachtoids.
Spread out. They can't be far.
Look out, Buckaroo!
Behind you!
You okay?
Yeah. Just grazed me.  The Professor's under the floor too...with the Overthruster...
Professor--!?
Here, Buckaroo!
Buckaroo!  Rawhide!  Reno?  Anybody?
Take it, young lady!  Grab it!
Go back, Buckaroo!
You're a welcome sight...
Just 'grazed' you, huh?
Apache?
Arachtoid.
So I was right.  That's nice to know...
We found the guy, Rawhide, sucker dug a hole and tried to...
Any antidote for these things?
No, none.
That mean you're on our side?
 We gotta stop 'em, Buckaroo.
We will, old fried, we will.
Sure do pack a mean wallop...let's go...
There's another one we owe 'em.
They're stealing my chopper!
And they got Penny!  Look!
Don't shoot!
She has the Overthruster!
Then your planet is doomed.
No!  We'll get it back.
These'll make you a tenny bit drowsy, Mr. President.
That's okay, Bonnie, I won't be operating any heavy machinery today.
As are all sane men today.
World Watch One.  Direct incoming transmission.
That which does not kill us makes us stronger, Buckaroo.  What's it like out there in the real world?
You're gonna have to repeat that, I think, Buckaroo.
To cut right to the bottom line on this, sir, we have reason to believe that there are moving freely among us, vicious red aliens disguised as the owners and operators of Yoyodyne Propulsion Systems.
Not exactly, Mr. Secretary, no.  Real aliens.  Giant red arachtoids camouflaged as human beings...and what they're really building, forget your Truncheon bomber, Mr. Secretary, is this enormous rocketship to escape back through the Eighth Dimension and then on to Planet 10.
The gentleman standing here with me is called John Parker, and he can corroborate everything I've said because he's from Planet 10 too.
Buckaroo...you and I, we go back a long, long way together...but...
Explosive? What are you saying, man? Some kind of race war in New Jersey--?
No, sir.  This 'man' as you call him, is not a human being, Mr. President.  He's a black arachtoid.
A what?
You're quite serious about this, aren't you, Buckaroo.  We know each other pretty well, I think.
There's your answer!  Electromagnetic bacterial crap!
Programmable!
We inhale the bacteria.  It swims to our cerebral cortex and reprograms our consciousness.  Diabolical.  We only see what they want us to see.
Electric brainwashing.
I've got it, Mr. Secretary.  But unfortunately the Oscillation Overthruster is in Penny Priddy's possession and she's been kidnapped and taken to Yoyodyne, further exacerbating the situation. We're on our way there right now.
Who the hell's Penny Priddy?
Buckaroo, John Parker has the arachtoid cloud on line 2!
Good God...
Get me SAC HQ: Omaha, NORAD, and the Strategic Space Command. I want some hard data on that cloud. We got any killer satellites over Jersey-
They're armed for bear, Buckaroo.  Check out those radiation levels.
 John Parker, tell them we're doing our best.  Stall.
 Buckaroo Banzai says patience is a virtue, Wing Commander, sir.
It's Whorfin, Buckaroo.  Line 3.
Whorfin?  Does he know we're coming?
Well, well...Dr. Banzai. Perhaps you don't remember me?  Ah, I'm flattered.  We know the same people.  In fact, one of them is here with me now...your associate, Doctor Penny Priddy.
"Doctor"--?
May I pass along my congratulations for your great achievement.  In the miserable annals of the Earth, you will be duly enshrined! However...  ...Miss Priddy claims to be unable to solve my problem. And provide the crucial missing circuit for my Overthruster.  Perhaps you can convince her to try.
I'm not worth it, Buckaroo! Forget me!
Penny--?!  Are you all right?
She knows nothing, Lizardo.
Then shall we say "A Penny for your thoughts?" You can come in her place. Yoyodyne, Dr. Banzai. Come alone, with your Overthruster!  He'll bring it.  I know his type.
Take her to the pit!  Use more honey.  Find out what she knows.
Who are you?  Hanoi Shan?  The Scourge of Burma!  The Pivot of Mystery? Well, you're not destroying me like you did my sister!
These antidote filters the Professor's whipped up will let you to see them like I have since yesterday, as arachtoidal creatures. They won't be pretty, nothing personal, John Parker.  But just remember...if we fail tonight, there's no tomorrow.
They will never surrender.  They will fight to the end.
I'm working under the assumption that Penny still has the Overthruster. That'll be my job: get it back in one piece.  Here's the main gate. I'll pass through first, alone.  The rest of you divide into two strike groups-Apache Team...that's you, Reno...and Chaparral Team, Perfect Tommy.  John Parker'll ride with Chaparral.
Top priority is the Overthruster. Whorfin can't escape without it. The built-in tracking device should make it relatively simple to locate...maybe hard to get.
Buckaroo, come in...over.  How does this damn thing work?  Can anybody figure this lighter out?
What's happening with my call to SAC?
Jammed--? By who? Whom by?
Should we be on Code Red?
We go to Code Red, the Russians go to Code Red...no sense jumping off half-cocked, Mr. President.
I don't know...Buckaroo Banzai's never been wrong before.
The man went through solid matter, for crying out loud. Who knows what it did to his brain...maybe scrambled his molecules. All I'm saying is, let's not panic here!  I'm sure there's a rational explanation...
We've got no choice then.  Call my wife.
Mr. President, none of us here are lunatics or irrational men...  ...or persons.  I'm a soldier and I'm a damn good one, enough decorations to snap a Christmas tree, but I don't mind telling you, I'm sure I speak for everyone in this room when I say I am scared. I'm barely holding my fudge right now.
Stop acting like a goddamn schoolgirl, General, and pull yourself together.
I'm glad someone has the balls to face facts!  Forget we're the good guys and we'd never attack first.  They think we're godless monsters just like them.  Put yourself in their samovars...sitting in the dark without radar, bells ringing all over the damn Kremlin, little men in fedora hats getting out of Zils, coming into the Great Hall of the People.  Now, do you think they're gonna listen to reason?  I'll give Buckaroo his Planet 10 space cloud, but do you think they will?
Hail Mary.
So what's our counter option, General Catburd?  Earn your salary.
I guess we have to prick this boil and take the heat, sir.  Hit 'em primero...blast 'em off the face of the Earth before they lose their heads and do it to us first.
Larry, where's my Football?
What're you waiting for, boy?  Get in here with that thing.
For the President!  From Buckaroo Banzai!
We're waiting for the Jet Car.  Billy's bringing it.
Asshole probably got lost.
Or nailed for speeding.
Can I have everyone's attention?  I'm not a rah-rah kinda guy, and I'm not much for speeches, but things could get rough out there tonight. It's a fight we didn't ask for, but it's a fight we're stuck with and we all saw what happened to Rawhide.  So if for any reason this is good-bye, I want you all to know that...well...that...you crazy lugs...
What, Buckaroo?  You trying to tell us something?
Let's just fry those arachtoids.
Give me thirty minutes.  Then come in and mop up.
Well... that's certainly food for thought.
Here you go, Mr. President...the Sealed Authenticators.  The Plan D Documents for your eyes only...John-Hancock these, and we got ourselves a knockout little force posture...
You know, on second thought, maybe we should think this through a bit more so that future generations of...
"Name of the enemy"?  What, Planet 10?  My hand's shaking.  How on earth can I even...have to stay awake, alert...that's my job.  That's what the people put me here for.
Blacks are on this planet! Here in New Jersey! Coming to destroy us! We must move! Escape or die!
You must work faster to finish the Great Vehicle. So that we can enter the Eighth Dimension and free our trapped comrades! So we can return to our homeland and seize power once again!
Where are we going?  Tell me!
To Planet 10!
When?
Real soon!
Not here!
WHERE IS THE OVERTHRUSTER!
I thought you had it!
Take him to the Shock Tower!
Solve them! The shock tower is a lie detector. Any untruth triggers a brutal charge to your auditory meatus...
You're not getting a damn thing outta me until Penny's safe.
Curse you, Banzai! Don't you realize what you're saying? Your planet's about to be destroyed, and you're wasting time like this...
I've got nothing but time.
Sealed with a curse as sharp as a knife...doomed is your soul, and damned is your life!
I want my missing circuit now!
You bloody--!
She'll live...for a while, and she won't enjoy it.
Only you can save her from the fate of your friend, Mr. Rawhide!  Solve this equation.  I must have the crucial missing circuit.
The missing circuit's in your head, Whorfin.
Whorfin?  How do you know that's my real name?
John Emdall told me.
Light precipitation.  Partly cloudy tomorrow.
Could I have your autograph, Mr. Parker?
Say, "To my best friend Scooter..."
You got it.
 Ten minutes more.  Buckaroo's orders.
Not on this bus, you're not.
Perfect Tommy.
Go ahead, Louie, do like the man says.
 Hey, so we get into action quicker this way.  We tell Buckaroo our watches were fast.
It's Bigboot.
Under here, I think.
Under where?  Hold on...
Hope you know where you're going, John Parker.  Because my nose is starting to whistle...
Thanks.
Don't mention it.
Then I won't.
They sense us.  Hurry.
Stop him!  Get him!
 Kill the girl!
That's 'Bigboot'.
Let's just climb upstairs to my office and discuss this like two reasonable...
It's not my goddamn planet!  Understand, monkey boy!?
But John Whorfin said kill her.
Damn John Whorfin--!
Look out, Buckaroo Banzai!
Leave her to me. You take care of business.
Thanks.
Sound the call to board ship!
Without the crucial missing circuit?  We'll never make it!
They are only monkey boys!  We can still crush them here--!
You heard my orders!  Activate the Special Horns!
Massacre them! Without quarter!
Close the doors!
What is this thing?  A fighter?
Don't look at me, Buckaroo Banzai.  I failed flight school.
Overthruster in place.
It won't work! It won't!
Shut up, John Bigboote, you coward!
Again, John O'Connor!  Again!
They haven't got enough power.  They'll never penetrate!
Almost!  Almost!  Lower my vehicle onto the runway!
No!  Please!
We're going down!  Onto the runway!
The door's locked.
Another step, I'll drink your blood--!
Get 'em up!
What's that?
Full speed ahead!
We haven't a chance.  Your Overthruster's for shit!  We'll all just...
One more word out of you, Bigboote...
Bigboot.
Full speed ahead!  Battle stations!
Tell them to stop.  They're your friends!
I lack the authority, Buckaroo Banzai.
At least tell them I'm trying!  Tell 'em something--!
Does this thing have guns, John Parker?
Boy, I hope so, Buckaroo Banzai.
Take the throttle, John Parker!
Banzai!  I'll see you in hell!
Pull up!  We did it!  Holy shit, we did it!  Pull up!
Now, Buckaroo Banzai?
Now!
Emilio!
Toichi--?  I'll be damned.
All accounted for?  Where's Penny?
New Jersey brought her back to the bus through heavy fire.  Quite a guy if you want my opinion.
Got a casualty list?
Just their side.  What're we gonna do with these people?  They're illegal aliens, the way I figure, been here forty years, you could throw the book at 'em...
And ask the American taxpayer to foot the bill?  No way.  Send 'em back to the Eighth Dimension as soon as we find the Overthruster.  It wasn't in Penny's purse...so if we have to run this joint upside down and inside out...
Hey, Scooter Lindley, fall in!
Is this what you're looking for, Buckaroo?
Looks like one Junior Shield is in line for a ride in The Jet Car.
Wow, you know it!  I'll have to ask my dad.
Well, go ahead, what're you waiting for?
I did all I could.  I did my best...
Tell him yes on "1" and no on "2".
Penny!
Open your eyes!  Look at me!  Penny!
Buckaroo...you look awful.
