All lunar departures, please proceed to concourse lounge 'B.'
Attention, all Pulsar Four mining personnel.
Please report to the Resource Expeditions office, level seven.
No tongues, Father.
All lunar shuttle landings are handled by these computers and simulated on these video units.
 You're programmed on R-two-niner and locked, Lunar eight six.  Over.
 It's out of our hands now, gentlemen.
Commissioner, we both know the Mercury shuttle needs another month of pre-launch testing.
Forget it.  The boys on the board want that shuttle to go on schedule.
And what do the boys on the board know about safety, Commissioner?  Let me talk to them.
Bud, get wise to the political realities. The boys on the board are under a lot of pressure from the boys downtown.
And I'll be the one they'll hang if there's a screw-up.
Listen, Bud, the boys downtown are under heavy fire from the boys in Washington. That's why they're putting pressure on the boys on the board.
Well, you tell the boys on the board to tell the boys downtown to let the boys in Washington know that the press has been nosing around my people in the front office.
You handle your front office people, I'll handle the press and leave the boys in Washington to the boys downtown and the boys downtown to the boys on the board.
Commissioner.
What?
I just wish it was that simple.
 This is Mercury One control.  We have condition green.  Mark launch 'T' minus two hours and counting.  I repeat, we have condition green.
This condition isn't as bad as it could be if it were a lot worse.  Take these pills.  Here's some water.
What is it, doctor?
Two parts oxygen, one part hydrogen. It'll make the pills go down easier.
 This is Mercury station six!  Get me the Sarg and fast!
Would you like to buy a rose to help bail out Chrysler?  We're an all-profit organization and need all the money we can get.
 Here.
 IACCOCA, IACCOCA, IACCOCA, IARAMA.
For the best little computer officer on the Mercury mission.
 Simon.
Who would believe that Elaine Thompson was once a stewardess on the Denver-Chicago run.
And I can hardly believe that I'm engaged to someone like you, Simon.  I'm a very lucky woman.
Women and the space program have come a long way, sweetheart.  But after the wedding, no more complicated computers for my little girl.
But, darling, they've offered me a chance to head up the computer analysis division for the Jupiter probe.
You're heading up the division in charge of babies for Mr. and Mrs. Simon Kurtz.
And that's an order, Lieutenant.
 Marge, you better go without me.  We've got a condition red.
 We've got a condition red with our marriage.  I think you're in love with that shuttle, not with me.  I want a divorce, Sarg.
Is there someone else, Marge?  Is that it?
Sarg, there's been someone else for fifteen years.  You were just too involved in your work to see it.
Don't wait up for me, sweetheart.  We're testing the retro-rockets tonight.
You just can't see it, can you, Sarg.
We'll talk tomorrow, hon.  I promise.
All Mercury passengers please proceed to passenger processing, concourse level 'C.'
That's us.
Will Scraps be able to sit with us, Dad?
We'll have to check, Jimmy.  It's a pretty long trip to Mercury.
Can I help you folks?
 Thanks.
 Is that your puppy, son?
Yeah, his name is Scraps and he's going to Mercury with us.
No dogs are allowed on the shuttle, son.
But they said...
 Scraps will have to be shot.  I can do it for you here if you like.
Scraps!!!
 Just joking.  Blanks.  See, Scraps is fine.
It was just a joke, Jimmy.
There's no way this wiring could have passed inspection without Simon Kurtz's okay!
 Just patch up the damage and get that ship ready to fly.  That's an order, mister!
You've got it, mister.  But you can tell your boys on the board for me that this thing stinks to high heaven of kickback.
You heard it, boys.  Now, what do you say?
Fuck him!
 Ted Striker was right six months ago when he test-piloted this sucker.  And what did he get for telling the truth?  A one-way ticket to Palukaville.
 Who could have figured it would come to this.  It'll be twenty years this week that I lost my entire squadron over Macho Grande.  Planes, too.
You're too low, Striker!  You're too low!
After the war, I couldn't go near anything with a pair of wings.
That is, until fate dropped me on the seat of my pants at the stick of a 167 into Chicago with no crew.
It's funny how fate can make heroes out of cowards.
Then came the job offers.
The publicity.
Even the key to the City of New York.
Now look at me.
Senor Ted!
 Traficante de drugas o communista?
 Traficante de drugas, traficante de drugas!
 Traficante de drugas o communista?
Communista!
 We've lost all our travelers' checks!
What are we going to do?!
Calm down.  What kind were they?
American Excess!
I'd say you're fucked.
 Next thing I know, I'm the chief test pilot for the XR-2300, NASA's first Mercury shuttle.  That is, until I report she's got more flaws than the Titanic.
Now I'm testing old F-l8s for some crazy Generalissimo who thinks there's a commie behind every tree in the Amazon.
Senor Ted!  Look!
My God!  They're launching the ZR-2300. Do you know what that is, Jose?
The muffler bracket for a '78 Pinto.
No, that's an XR-2200.  The XR-2300 is the Mercury shuttle.  They can't do it!
Taxi!
Houston, Texas.
Houston, Texas, senor??
Right at the corner, left at the light. Here's a map and step on it!
We finally made it, Ma.  Mercury.  We're gonna start all over agin.  A whole new life.
Where the soil is rich.
And the union strong.  Where men are free to realize their true potential.
Can I help you?
Where black men and white men, working together, can move mountains.
That'll be eight hundred and seventy-four zillion quastavitas.
Here's three bucks.  Keep the change.
Thank you!!
You folks need any help?
Thanks, but we have a terrific woman in on Thursdays.
Say, isn't that Dr. Barrington, the world- renowned agronomist?
Yes.
It's a privilege to meet you, sir, I'm familiar with all your work.
Let's go, Daddy.  We have to check in.  He was never appreciated at the Institute.
Ah, yes, the Institute, I'm familiar with it.
Now he's D-Y-I-N-Ging and wants to be buried on Mercury.
Say, wasn't that Dr. Barrington, the world-renowned agronomist?
That's right.  Are you familiar with his work?
No, but the missus sure is.
 I have to stop that flight.
Don't worry about the Viatex account. It's a buy-sell option.  We can't get hurt in either case.
Just keep on top of their legal people, Bob.
Don't sweat it.
 We can take your in-flight dinner orders here, if you like.  Today there's lobster or rack of lamb.
The lobster sounds nice.
 Where can I find mission control?
 Information's over there.
Thanks.
 Today there's the swill or the slop.
The slop sounds nice.
 What's the fastest animal on earth?
The cheetah.  Next.
Should I fake my orgasms?
Yes.  Next.
Please, where is flight to Miami?
 Over there.  Next.
Mission control?
 It's over therrrrrrr!
That's strange.  I just came from over there.
I'll meet you on board.  I've got some business to attend to.
 Frank's the best pilot in the program.
I'm so excited, Simon.
I guess this is a first for you.
No, I've been excited before.
Elaine.
 Te...!
That's not important now, Elaine.  We have to talk.
Ted, we've been worried sick ever since you escaped from the Ronald Reagan Institute For The Mentally Feeble.
Are you on the Mercury mission?
That's right, Striker.  And we're getting married when we return.
It's got to be stopped!
But, Ted, the invitations have already gone out.
I mean the Mercury flight.  It's not safe and, Kurtz, you know why.
You're still crazy, Striker.  Come on, sweetheart.
What did Ted mean?
Elaine, he's still sick.
You're seeing bugs where they don't exist, Striker.
 Look at this wiring.  It's shorting out under high temperatures.
You're tired, Striker, overworked.  That wiring meets all the safety specifications.
I know you've been subtly spreading the word that I'm having a breakdown.
Shuttle test pilot goes mad!
Sir, these are the designs for the flight uniforms.  I think the captain's is to die.
 Good, good, no, no, good.  What's this?! I said no studded dog collars, Jacobs.
You won't get away with this, Simon!
Ted, what's wrong?
 Ask Simon.
Ted, you're overworked.  You've been flying yourself into the ground.
There's nothing wrong with me!
Let's relax tonight, just the two of us. I'll make a quiet Italian dinner just the way you like it, with spaghetti.
You're as bad as the rest of them, Elaine!  It's all here in the design specifications! (grabs plans from a passing technician) Look!  It's all here!
No!  Wait!  You're hurting him!
Elaine!  Ted's a danger to himself, he's a threat to this mission and his behavior does absolutely nothing to promote peace in the Middle East.
 Simon, why has he become so... so...
So mentally ill?
 I'm perfectly sane.
Excuse me, are you alright?  I noticed you talking to yourself.  I'm a nurse.  Can I be of some help?
Uh... oh, thank you.  It's nothing.
You don't have to thank me, I'm a nurse. This is my father, Dr. Barrington.
Not Dr. Barrington, the world renowned agronomist?
Yes.  He's dying a-n-d wants to be buried on Mercury.
I'm familiar with your work, Doctor. You'll have to excuse me, I have to go.
You don't have to excuse yourself.  I'm a nurse.  I understand.
Meet me onboard, sweetheart.  I have to pick up a few things at the drugstore.
 Don't be too long.
Uppers, downers, coke, speed, hash, Tampax.
Elaine.
Ted, please.  You're just making things difficult for yourself.
Elaine, what happened to us?
Ted, I loved you and I'll always love you. But I need Simon.  He's stable.  He's a good provider.  I want that at this stage of the game, Ted.  He might have his faults, but Simon doesn't know the meaning of the word fear and I need that in a man.
 What does this word mean?
 'Fear,' to be afraid or over-anxious.
Elaine, someone has to listen to me.  I'm going right to mission control.
Ted, you should go right back to the hospital.
That's $38.
Eat this spaghetti, Ted.  It'll make you feel a lot better.
Who's that, Ted?
Sammy Davis Junior.  Terrible car accident.  He hasn't been the same since.
Elaine, when are you going to realize Simon Kurtz put me in here to get me out of the way.
And when are you going to realize, Ted, that your mental hygiene is the most important thing right now.
 It works... No, it doesn't... Yes, it does.
What's his problem?
It does work... No, it doesn't.
His name's David Stockman.  He's been here twenty years, that's all he says.
Ted, you must remember what the doctor said, the first step on the road to sanity is admitting that you're sick.  Now take your electro-shock and you'll be back at the space center in no time.  And by the way, Ted, I'm leaving you for Simon.
I just can't go on living with a man who refuses to deal with reality, Ted.  I have to go now.  Believe me, it's best for all concerned.
No goodbyes, Elaine.  Just go.
If that's the way you want it.
That's the way I want it.  Just turn the radio on and go.
Goodbye, Ted.  I don't want to hurt you.
Carol's not going to give me a divorce that easily, Jane.
I'm worried about her, Frank.  She could do something senseless, something violent.
You're the one who's not making sense, Jane.  Carol's not the violent...
Carol!
No!  This is senseless!
Young man, would you have change for a twenty?
 I might have two tens.
Thank you anyway, but I wanted it in quarters.
 When is this senseless killing going to stop?
Senseless or not, Sergeant, there's a pattern here.  This is the 12th victim this week with a chalk mark around the body.  I want this whole area cordoned off!  I want everyone in this terminal booked and beaten until they talk.  I want an M.O. on everyone who has seen THE SOUND OF MUSIC and I want the entire population of Hawaii off that rock and into the water within one hour.
Sergeant.  I said cordon off, not accordian off!  Now dust this area for prints.
And run a check on their plates.
 When will this senseless killing end?
Super!  Great!  Super!  Terrific!  Super!
That's right, Commissioner.  Senselessly murdered just minutes ago.
That just doesn't make any sense.
I wonder how your boys in Washington are going to take this one.
I told you, leave the boys in Washington to the boys downtown and the boys down...
You've made your point, Commissioner. There's only one other pilot who can handle that shuttle and that's Clarence Oveur.  He's got a lunar flight today.  I want him pulled.  Jacobs, pull Oveur!
Not in your size, but I have a cardigan.
I'll trust you on this, Bud, but I'm a little nervous about Oveur's record.
Captain Oveur?
Mr. Kurtz, I presume.
We don't have much time.  Let's move. I'll explain everything.
Chanting or non-chanting?
This is Mercury launch control at "T" minus fifty-eight minutes and counting. All systems are go.  Clear launch area.
 I said 'launch' not 'lunch'!
That's how dry cleaning works.  Now I'd like to quickly go over the digestive system of amphibians.
Do you think it's necessary to explain everything?
I'll meet you on board.  There's something I have to take care of first.
I have to see Bud Kruger.
Do you have an appointment, sir?
No, dammit.  It's a matter of life or death.
You'll have to be more specific than that, sir.
All right, it's a matter of death.
 Death, death.  How about the first Thursday in March, ten o'clock.
You can't go in there!
Don't try to stop me!
But that's not a door.  The door's over there.
That's strange.  I just came from...
 This is Mercury control at "T" minus fifty minutes and counting.  Commence loading of passengers requiring special boarding assistance.
Take this, Joey.  It's my last few bucks. You'll need a hot meal when you get there.
We've spent everything on these operations.  Is it really worth it?  We've pawned your mother's wedding ring.  The kids have no winter clothes...
 Joey, what's more important, the kids' clothes or your sexual potency.
 I don't want to hear that word!
Okay, Joey.  The Doc says you gotta relax. This hospital in Des Moines is the best sex clinic in the country.
All right.  Here.
What...?
Insurance.  Everyone buys it.
All right.  Goodbye, Babe.
Joey!  Remember, sexual impotence is nothing to be ashamed of!
 Time, Newsweek, the Lifesavers, and the second time bomb from the right.
 My God, Dr. Spock!  You've got a meltdown in the Reggie Bars!
I'm telling you, Edith, space travel is safer than driving a car.
Mercury seats.  I got a pair.  I got aisle seats, window seats.  Check 'em out.
Gentlemen, this is Captain Oveur.  He's taking over for Frank Morgan.
What's the problem?
Morgan was senselessly murdered about an hour ago.
 Murdered?  I hope it's not serious.
We won't know until after the autopsy.
Of course.  Welcome aboard, sir.
Good to be aboard, gentlemen.
Captain Oveur, your navigator, Mr. Unger, and your first officer, Mr. Dunn.
Unger.
Oveur.
Oveur.
Dunn.
And I think everyone knows Elaine.
 Is flight to Miami, yes?
No.
Thank you.  Thank you.
Open.
Mercury, Krista.  A whole new world to be depressed about.
Ya, Sven.
Will we die, Pappa?
We all die, Ingrid.
Will we die soon, Pappa?
Soon?  What is the real meaning of 'soon'?
 Atmosphere control.
 Atmosphere control, check.
 Anti-gravity.
 Anti-gravity, check.
 That's odd.
 I hope that weather doesn't give us a problem. (he opens the window and holds his hand out) What's your temperature reading, Mr. Unger.
 Ninety-eight point six.
There seems to be some fog rolling in from the west.
Mike, give me a density reading.  I just hope it's not too heavy.
 The fog, the fog, the torment clouded my mind.  Derision, contempt...
That's heavy.
 Welcome aboard.  Isn't that Dr. Barrington, the world renowned agronomist?
Yes -- he's dying and wants to be buried in the new l-a-n-d.
 Welcome aboard.  Can I take your case?
 No!
There's a whole new world in front of us, Ma.  Where the dictatorship of the proletariat will lead workers and peasants into socialism without the revisionist diversions of bourgeois liberals, Trotskiests, or disillusioned Maoist terrorism.
 Doesn't he realize that a weak proletariat needs a strong liberal bourgeoisie in a joint struggle against monopoly capitalism?
We can't begin to help you until you admit that you are sick, Ted.  Sick Ted, sick Ted, sick Ted...
 Well, I'll be a monkey's uncle; Ted Striker.  Jack, I got a bad feeling in my gut about this mission.
What'd you have for dinner?
The fish, why?
We should be ready to launch as soon as this fog lifts.
Can I hang that for you, sir?
Thanks.
It looks like that weather is clearing.
Elaine.
Ted!  What are you...?
I have to get in there.  I have to stop this flight.
Ted, we're taking off!
Let me by, Elaine.
Please take your seats.
Elaine!
Whenever your're ready, Captain.
Yes, sir, commander.  This is Mercury One.  Everything seems A- okay up here and ready for count-down.
Ted seemed to get worse after I told him about Simon, Doctor.
The human brain is a highly complex organ, Elaine, perhaps the most complex next to the bladder. (he stops at a patient in a wheelchair with his back TO CAMERA) Let me show you. (Rumack removes the top of the patient's skull and takes out his brain as they continue on) Ted's problem is in this area.  This area, this area, here, here, here, under here, here...
So you see, our task isn't made any easier by Ted's refusal to admit that he's sick.
What can I do, Doctor Rumack?
You can eat balanced meals, exercise, and take Geritol.
I mean for Ted.
You can be gentle with him, Elaine.  He's been working out a lot of his aggressions here in the garden.
Is that a good sign, Doctor?
It does the job.
Hello, Ted.
 I brought you some spaghetti.
What are you doing, Ted?
I've got it, Elaine!  I've figured out what's wrong with the shuttle!
Ted.
Not now, Elaine!
Ted!
The brain is an amazingly complex organ, Elaine.
Is he making any progress, Doctor?
Yes -- last week that pile of mud was only this high.
Mark 'T' minus twenty and counting.
Gentlemen, let's get this bucket into space.  Ignition set.
Mark 'T' minus thirty seconds.
 Ignition.
'T' minus nine, eight, seven...
Six, five, four...
Three...
Stop!  One shot.
Wonderful!
Two, one.
You have lift-off, Mercury One.
Jettison booster stages one and two.
 Booster jettisoned.
Shut down accelerators.
Accelerators down.
Elaine, ask ROK for a field interference scan.  Those sun spots might give us a problem with our communications.
 Yes, sir.
 That's really strange.
Intermitant failure in scan mode "R". Analyze.
Negative.
 That doesn't make sense.  Repeat analysis.
Negative.
 That's not possible.
Cut the Doubting Thomas shit, Elaine.  I know where I'm coming from on this.
I guess this is pretty exciting for you.
Yes, it is.  How long will the trip take?
Our actual flight time is over fourteen months, but due to the time-space variant at sub-light speeds, our onboard flight time will be just over eighteen hours.
Gee, Mom, how does that work?
 How many times do I have to tell you, I'm not your mother!  I've never seen you before!
Why did she yell at me like that?
Hallucinating again, Rhonda?
 I don't know what it is.
Maybe it's the brand of glue you've been sniffing.  Why don't you try this, NO-HI. It gives you all the pleasure of glue without the brain damage.
Something to read, sir?
 Do you have PSYCHO MONTH?
I think so.  Here you are.
 Would you like something to read?
I don't read a whole lot, but what have you got, hon?
TIME, NEWSWEEK, BUSINESS WEEK, and the TALMUD...
The twenty-four volume dissertation on the Hebrew law.
Let me try that Talmud.
 And you, sir?
 Oh... Popular Electronics.
You must admit that you're sick, Ted.  Sick Ted, sick Ted...
 Wanta switch when we're finished?
Here.  I need some oxygen.
Have you got it straightened out now?
I think so.
That's my girl.
Elaine, I'm sorry about that little outburst a moment ago.
That's okay, ROK.
Can I say something of a personal nature to you?
Go ahead.
You have great tits.
 Simon, I'm going to check ROK's secondary readout unit.
Roger.
 Yes, Mary?
Would you like a little breakfast, Captain Oveur?  Over.
A couple eggs and juice would be nice, Mary.  Over.
 How would you like your eggs, Captain? Over.
No.  Poached.  Over.
 Poached and over, Captain Oveur?  Over.
Just poached on toast.  Over.
 I don't think we do poached eggs on toast over, Captain Oveur.  Over.
That's how I want them.  Poached.  Over.
All right, Captain Oveur.  Over.
Poached!  Not over!  Over!
You should really put that case in the compartment above your head, sir.
 That's okay.
 I can help you if you can't get it up.
I said, no!
I sure an glad they let Scraps ride up here with us.
I bet Scraps is going to love Mercury.
Do you think things will be a lot different on Mercury, Dad?
It's going to be terrific.  A whole new world, new kids to play with.
You're going to love it, Jimmy.
No more headlines about the rape trial and the fraud charges?
 How many kids get a chance to live on another planet.
No more kids yelling, 'Your old man's a thieving rapist'?
 Look, a man can make an honest mistake!! Anyway, she was asking for it!  They're all asking for it all the time!!
Not John's irregularity again.
You must admit that you're sick, Ted... sick, Ted... sick, Ted...
We seem to have a malfunction in disposal unit four, sir.
You better check it, Unger.
 Done.
Yes?
Elaine.
Ted.  I don't know why you got on this flight.  I don't know what you're trying to prove.
Elaine, we have to go back.
We can't go back.  We had something very special, but it's all over.
Elaine, I mean the mission has to be aborted.  This ship should never have passed FSA inspection.  This thing is held together by string and chewing gum.
Ted, get a grip on yourself.  You should never have left the hospital.
Then you do think I'm insane.
I've never used the word insane, Ted.
 What word would you use, Elaine?
The word is sick.  Ted -- very, very, very sick.
What would you say if I told you the toilet just blew up in my face.
I'd use the word insane.
There's something dangerously wrong with this ship, Elaine.  I know its the wiring. That toilet's just the tip of the iceberg.
Ted, a toilet's not going to kill anyone.
You've been hurt.
I'm getting over it.  If a relationship isn't working, you can't force it.
No, I mean your head.  Sit down.  I'll take a look at it.  I'm a nurse.
Do you want to talk about it.
I opened this panel and a vacuum cleaner hit me.
No.  I mean your relationship.
We were in love but I'm not sure I know what love is anymore.
Love's the same as it always was.  It's people who change.
People change in relation to each other. Love changes on its own.
Not if the people change together in relation to that love.
Sure.  But that's only when the love itself goes unchanged.
Then the relationship remains the same and the love changes only when there's change in the two people who share that love.
I just wish it was that simple.  We really were in love.  You know how it is when you laugh all the time.
No.  It's hard to L-A-U-G-H when your father's dying.
Well, we laughed.  We laughed all the time.
We laughed when times were good.
Even when times weren't so good, we still laughed.
But most of all, we laughed when we felt closest to each other.
That's our story.
 Sir, I've got an overload in disposal unit four.
You better check on it, Mr. Dunn.  I'll stay here and fly the ship.
Dunn.
Sir?
You better take this.
Mind if Jimmy here takes a look around, Captain?
Of course not.  Come on in, Jimmy. (checking his navigational screen) That's strange.
Now what?
That's an asteroid field.  There shouldn't be anything like that in this sector unless...
Unless?
Unless those sunspots are interfering with our scanner or...
Or?
Or we're off course, but...
But?
But we couldn't be off course.  Our coordinates are computer-locked barring...
Barring?
Barring a computer failure.  There was talk of sub-par wiring in this ship.  I hope that's just talk.
Come on up, Jimmy.  Say, that's some puppy.  What's his name?
Scraps.
Can I hold him?
 Sure.
 He's a boy dog.
Yeah.
Do you like it when Scraps sleeps on his back, Jimmy?
They kept me in the asylum for eight months.  I know everyone in those places claims they're sane, but I was different, I was sane.
Holy shit.
Ted, I want you to relax.  Let your mind go back, back past your youth, past your childhood to your mother's womb.
Try to remember your birth.  Was it difficult?
Striker, listen to me!  This is Doctor Krane!  You're twisted around, Striker. You've got to come out feet first!  You're too low in the womb!  You're too low, Striker!  You're...  ... too low...
Ted, are you okay?  Here, take one of these stress pills.
 Request; comprehensive electrical systems check.
Systems check positive.  Look, Elaine, I...
Request; life support systems check.
Life support check.  Elaine, it's obvious you've been ignoring me.  You're a woman. I can relate to that.
 Request; self-analysis of ROK hardware and software systems regarding behavioral changes.
There's nothing wrong with me, Elaine. What about tonight -- just you and me.  We can be alone.  I can get rid of everyone else on the ship -- I've already proven that.
Do you want to talk about it, Commander?
Did you feel that?
 Yes I did...
Felt like a large asteroid.
Yes it did.  Mr. Dunn, can I ask you a personal question?
What is it, Mary?
Um...  Do you people scream right when you... you know.
Hand me your cup.  This is very hot.
Thank you.  And, stewardess, can you please tell my wife that there is nothing that can go wrong.  I think she'd like to hear it from you.
I don't think we have any alternative, Captain.
I see.  What do you think our alternatives are?
We have to disconnect ROK's higher brain functions without disturbing his regulatory system.
Roger.
You can do it from up here, Captain.
I'd rather sit down for this one, Elaine.
No, I mean you can do it from the cockpit.
Roger.  You better get back there and monitor the regulatory unit.
Captain, the coffee machine is jammed and I don't like it.
Have you tried it with a little cinnamon?
Captain Oveur, Dunn and Unger have been sucked out through disposal unit four!
Both together?!
Dunn and Unger have been sucked out through disposal unit four!!
All right, calm down.  Here's how we're going to play it.
Mary, I want you here.  Testa, you move across here past Dawkins' pick and get the ball at the top of the key from Irving.
What are you doing, Captain?
I wouldn't do that, Captain.
 Pills...  Pocket...  Vent...  Gas... Yankees... four... (points to RADIO that plays BALLGAME) Sox... zip...
 We're off course, heading right through that asteroid field and right at the... at the sun!
Listen to me!  Listen to me, my children!
Please listen.  Thank you, my children. I'm a man of God, you must trust me when I say... we're all going to die!!
You're right.  They're off course and heading right for the sun.  I've seen enough, Bob.
Get me Jack McCrosky and fast!
McCrosky?  He hasn't handled a tower in twenty years.
Ever since Reagan fired the controllers, he's been completely senile and hasn't done a day's work.
What about McCrosky?
Pretty much the same as Reagan.
Get him.
It's for Mr. McCrosky.
Do you think we should bother him?  He's been acting a bit odd lately.
He's fine.  He just thinks he's Lloyd Bridges.
The phone's for you, Mr. McCrosky.
What's a phone?
 Here, let me help you.  I think it's the space centre.  Now, let's not get too excited.
What?  What? (pulls off his scuba mask and snorkle) What? (gets more alert and grabs a cigarette) I'll be right down! (he hangs up and jumps out of bed) Looks like I picked the wrong time to go senile.
Simon! (she spots Oveur slumped on the panel) Captain Oveur!
 Mets... nine... Phils... three... Cubs... four...
Simon, what's happening?!
He tried to disconnect ROK.  It gassed him.  That computer is running this ship and we're heading right for the sun.
Can't we change course?
We're computer locked and the manual navigation unit is down.
Then Ted was right!
My career is shot.
Your career!  What about the lives of those people out there.  Simon, what happened to the man I thought I loved?
I've got to get Ted.  Just don't come apart on me now, Simon.
This is flight to Miami, yes?
No.
 Please, ladies and gentlemen, please calm down.  Listen to me!
We've been thrown off course just a tad.
What's that mean?
In space terms, about 70 million miles.
The bumps you feel are car-sized asteroids smashing into the hull.
Also, we're heading right for the sun and can't seem to change course.
Are you telling us everything?
Not exactly.  We're also out of coffee.
Pray with me, my children.  Pray.
But Father, I'm not Catholic.
Then worship the god of your choice.
I've always loved you, darling.  I was unfaithful just once.  Remember Jill, my first secretary?  Forgive me.
I knew all about it.  I was unfaithful once, too.
That's all behind us now.
Remember Harriet, your first receptionist?
We're going to crash!!
God is great!!
Death to America!!
The yellow pencil is on the table of my aunt!!
There is absolutely nothing to worry about!
Your crew is in complete control of the situation.
Get me a cup of coffee, mister.
Yes, sir.
And a gallon of milk of magnesia, and a ham on rye, no cheese!
Yes, sir! Welcome home, sir!
 Here are the navigational charts, sir.
Thanks.
Get me a readout on their fuel capacity.
Yes, sir.
Here's all the available information on the sun.  That thing's hot, sir.
Ahhhhhh!  Get me Bud Kruger immediately!  Jacobs, I want to know absolutely everything that's happened up till now!
First the earth cooled.  Then the dinosaurs came but were too big and died and everything got rotten and turned into oil and the Arabs bought Mercedes Benzs and then there was the best TV special on Judy Garland.  Then we lost the war with Albania.  Then...
Things sure haven't changed.
Ted, Ted.  Listen to me, Ted.  You were right all along.  Ted, we've lost the crew and Simon's turned to jelly!
 Come in, Mayflower.  This is mission control.  Over.  Come in, Mayflower! Over!
Do you want to talk about it now, Commander?
My God.
He's finally come to terms with his own psychosis.
But he was right!  He's not crazy!
Miss, I'm a nurse with a dying F-A-T-H-E- R, I know what I'm talking about.  Now I'm going to need fresh sheets, gauze, Q-tips, and all the vaseline you have on board! Now!
 I'll need all the boiling water you can get your hands on!
Are you a nurse?
Yes.  The washroom's down there on your right.
 And not too much!
Can I help?
Keep an eye on that side of the ship.
 I'll need all your boiling water.
We should be out of this momentarily. There's nothing to worry about.
Thank you.  That makes me feel so much better.
Trust me, I'm a priest.  We're in shit up to our ears.  Who wants last rites?
 Damn!  I want that patient shot on sight!
Maybe you gotta be crazy to end up behind the eight ball like this.  Anyway, you find out pretty fast who your friends are when you're on the lamb.
 I'm going out for cigarettes and a fifth of bourbon.  Don't wait up for me.
Virgin wool.  Nothin' but headaches.
I travelled at night in the shadows.  I didn't want to attract attention.
I was afraid to step out of the doorways. You never know what to expect when you're on the run.
There I was, minding my own business when I looked up and saw a pair of legs that went forever.
But I had a date with Harry's.  It was little more than a hole in a wall on the south side of Chicago.
Harry's was perfect for me.  The kind of place you go if you don't want to be recognized.
It was rough, real rough.
The kind of place you could score anything, from junk...
...to Phil Donahue's book.
At Harry's you could count on a fight breaking out almost every night.
And I say essence precedes existence.
You're crazy!  Existence precedes essence.
Essence!
Existence!
There was a small trio in one corner.
And a larger trio in the other corner.
The last thing I wanted was Elaine to see me down on my luck.  Well, it was just my luck.  In she walked with a group from the space program.
They'd come to Harry's to slum it and try their hand at the video bull.
Elaine made that ride look easy.  It was obvious why I was still nuts about her. She loved life.  I didn't want her to notice me so I borrowed a pair of dark glasses.
Grabbed an alto sax and joined the group.
I stayed in the background not wanting to draw attention to myself.
Then what happened?  Elaine's crowd talks her into joining us for a song.
 I don't know who you are or how you lost your sight, but I'll never forget this night as long as I live.
Come in, Mayflower.  Over!
Striker.
Kurtz, you're drunk.  Who's in command of this ship?
That damn computer has taken over.  I'm getting out.
Then Elaine was right.
Don't talk to me about Elaine.  Outta my way!
 Pull yourself together!  We've got to...
Father, what should I do?
Have you considered suicide, my son?
Do you want to talk about it now, Commander?
 Come in, Mayflower.  Over.  Do you read me?  Over.  Damnit!
 Let me try, sir.  Come in, Mayflower. Over.  Come in.  Over.  Damnit!
 Let me try, sir.  Come in.  Over.  Damnit!
Let me try, sir.
 Stinson, have you contacted the families of the passengers and crew?
Try and calm them down.  And for God sake, be diplomatic.
Give 'em the lead!
 I'm afraid that leg's going to have to come off.
Wait.  This isn't your chart.  You just had a touch of air sickness.  You'll be fine.
I'm terrified.
 And I'm a nurse.  Everything will be okay. Pass it on.
Are you feeling okay, mister?
I'm feeling just fine, son.  Just fine.
Simon, I...
Do you read, Mayflower?  Over.  This is mission control.  Over.
Hello.  This is the Mayflower.  Over! Come in, anyone.
 We read you, Mayflower!  Identify yourself and give your position.
This is Elaine Thompson.  I'm five-six, 123 pounds with brown hair and I'm sitting down and facing the front.
Elaine Thompson!!  What in sam hill is a woman doing in charge of that ship?!
Maybe she's got her shit together.
Elaine!
Ted!
Elaine, what's going on?
Ted, there's no time to explain.
Packers... seven... Vikings... three...
Come in, Mayflower!  Over!
Ted, I was wrong about you.
Come in!  Over!  Come in!  Over!
We all make mistakes, Elaine.
Come in Mayflower!
How could I ever have doubted you?
This is mission control!  Over!
That's all behind us now, Elaine.  And no matter what happens, I want you to know I've always loved you.
Jesus, would someone answer me!!
I love you, Ted.
What the hell's going on up there?!
 Ted, this reminds me of twenty years ago over Chicago.
 This is Mayflower One calling mission control.  Do you read me?  Over.
A man.  Now that's more like it.  This is mission control.  Identify yourself and give me your position.  Over.
 The name's Ted Striker and I'm sitting down and facing the front.
 Striker... Striker... Striker...
If you say so.
 Ted Striker!
Damn!  We've lost them again.
Could be those sunspots.
Could be your dishwashing detergent.
Striker's the guy who flew that 736 into Chicago over 20 years ago without a crew. Would someone tell me what in sam hill he's doing up there?
 Me!  Me!  Me!
The boys downtown are taking the heat from the boys in Washington and the boys...
Bud, the President wants an explanation.
Sorry to pull you out of bed at this hour, gentlemen.
Forget it.  I was reading.
I was reading too.
What's the story?
Some southern plantation owner falls in love with this poor...
I was asking McCrosky, Commissioner.
He falls in love with this poor school teacher who...
 Sir, we've restored radio transmission.
Good.  We keep losing their radio.
Give it to me straight, McCrosky -- what's it look like.
It's green with numbers and lots of knobs.
Not the radio, the situation.  I want to know exactly what your people think.
 They're screwed.
 They're dead.
 Did I leave the iron on?
General Walker is here, Billy.  He wants to talk to you.
Billy, if we get through this thing alive, I'd like you to get this letter to my mother.
 An electrical fire in the core has played havoc with the ROK-4000 computer.  It's locked us on a direct line with the sun and there's no way we can go to manual. Captain Oveur already tried it and he's...
 Giants sixty... Rams... zip...
... become an intolerable bore.  The rest of the crew has been lost and we're out of coffee.  Also, we're starting to feel the sun's heat pretty bad.
It's eight-thousand square feet with great parking and a twenty-year lease with option to buy.
You can't lose, Al.
He can lose.  I've seen it happen a thousand times.
Striker, this is Jack McCrosky, chief controller.  I want you to listen to me and listen good.
Twenty years ago I helped a young pilot through a storm over Chicago.
He didn't have a crew either.  He said he couldn't do it.  But when the going got tough that kid pulled it together.
You might have read about him; he made all the big papers and the Canadian Jewish News.
I don't know where he is today but if he was up there right now, I know he'd find some way to turn that bucket around and get the hell out of there, pronto!
I wish I could talk like that -- so macho yet so sensitive.
I just hope I said the right thing.
I'm afraid you gave the wrong speech. McCrosky.  I'm not your problem.  It's this ship.  That computer's gone bananas.
 Why the hell are we still using the old manual!  Burn this book!
 Just hold on, Striker, we'll get back to you.
The cabin temperature is rising.  The passengers want to know what's happening up here.
Let us handle this end of things.  Now what's the coffee situation?
It just won't drip!  I've tried everything.  And the passengers are dropping like flies from the heat.
Elaine, I'm going back there.  Just hold onto that stick and try to control this hunk of tin as best you can.
Ted, please be careful.
 It doesn't look good.  The drip seems to be jammed up pretty bad.
Did they change the filter and wait for the brew sign to light up?
 To tell you the truth, sir, I don't really know.
 Eighty-three.  What's that mean?
Mr. McCrosky, Mr. Coffee.  Coffee, McCrosky.
Thanks for coming down so soon.
 I won't come down for another couple hours.
I'll put you on the radio with Striker. Jeez you look familiar.  Did you ever play water polo?
Not to my knowledge.
I thought so.
"DEEP SPACE DEATH CERTAIN"
"THEY SHOULDN'T HAVE GONE IN THE FIRST PLACE"
Four alarm fire rages through downtown Buffalo!
Mercury shuttle heads for sun.
 Four alarm fire guts Tokyo apartment.
 Mercury mission in death struggle.
 Four alarm fire in downtown Moscow clears way for glorious new tractor factory.
 Capitalist, imperialist adventurism ends in space disaster.
If this country was run by vegetarian women who's old men deserted them after knocking them up instead of by meat-eating males, this thing never would have happened.
 I never forget a face.  'Texas doctor claims sex with chicken cures baldness?'
'Severed legs grow back after Utah man finds Christ?'
Long time no see.
 Have you got the back panel off the brew manifold?
 Check.
There's a terminal at the base of the coil.  That's your contact point.
Is this a coffee bean?
 He's got a bean!!
 It looks like the solder point has melted.
 Just what I thought.  When the hell will you people realize that adding extra water after the initial brew cycle overheats the system!!  Now listen to me, Striker, and listen good.
Who's in charge here, Mister?
McCrosky, Control.
Hallick, homicide.
Jacobs, Pisces.
Kruger, Sagittarius.
Commissioner, Aquarius.
We have information that one of your passengers is carrying a bomb and might be suicidal.
Where'd you get this information, Captain?
We have our methods.
And what methods are those?
Have you heard of the Heimlich method?
The method of saving someone choking on a piece of gristle?
Exactly.
We're familiar with it.
Good.  This is the passenger's wife.  Mrs. Joe Salucci.
What makes you think your husband might want to blow up that shuttle, ma'am?
This insurance policy.
An electric tooth. (handing McCrosky the insurance form) Joey was supposed to go to Des Moines for an operation to cure his impotence.
The Des Moines Institute?
Then you know it.
Yes, we're familiar with it.
Well, I found out Joey got on this shuttle instead and...
The way I read it, blowin' up a plane in space leaves no traces, if you know what I mean.
I'm not exactly sure what you mean, Captain.
No blood.  No body.  No bones.  No eyes. No ears.  No throats.
 This is $500,000 worth of insurance!
Just a second.  This is insurance on his car!
That's what worries me.
He's impotent.
He's suicidal.
And he's stupid!
 This is it, Striker.  You got one shot and one shot only.
 Contact.
How are we going to handle this bomb nut?
 Here are the tests we ran on their computer.  I had them xeroxed for you.
How'd they come out?
Upside-down, but I turned each page over and put them in order.  I'm afraid that computer is totally capable of taking control of that ship.
Let's keep cool.  There's gotta be a way to control it.
 These are their position calculations. They've got about ten minutes before they start to burn up.
Keep calm.  A lot can happen in ten minutes.  What next?
 Sir, your headlights are on and your doors are locked!
 Jesus!!  I'll be right back!
Ted, we've only got ten minutes.
 Not now, Elaine.
I mean until we start to burn up.
We're closer to the sun than I estimated.
Come in, Mayflower.  This is Bud Kruger. Over.
 This is Striker.
 Look, Striker, I don't know how you got into that driver's seat but I want Simon Kurtz on that radio and I want him now!
 Kurtz was the one who got us into this mess in the first place.  You people knew this ship wasn't ready to fly.  You played God with over a hundred lives, Kruger, and for what -- the prestige of your precious space program.
That was very well put, Ted.
 Striker, you're heading right for the sun, so don't you think it's a little late for that bleeding heart liberal crap now?
He's got a point, Ted.
 Call me a bleeding heart, but if we get through this thing I'm preparing a paper on alternative spending directives recommending the transfer of space program funds to low cost housing.
 Just put Kurtz on that radio!!
 Look, Kruger, you and your people have caused enough trouble already.  I don't care about your political games, I care about only one thing, the lives of those people up there!!!  Out of my control room!!
Someone's car wouldn't start.
 Striker, this is McCrosky.  Give me five minutes and keep your fingers crossed.  Stinson, get me the Mayflower plans!  You, clear this table!
I'll get the cards and bridge mix.
And someone get me the Sarg!
That's my little girl, my little darlin', my sweetheart, my honey, and you want to blow her belly out with that bomb.  If you blast here in the computer core and the fuselage doesn't give way here and the main communication lines to the cockpit hold here and this baby here doesn't jam this little old unit up here and throw about two tons of hot steel through here like a hot knife through butter and the upper and lower...
What's your point, Sarg?
I have no point.
Then it's settled.  The bomb is Striker's only chance.  Are there any questions?
No sir.
Those are answers, I asked for questions.
Should a man in his forties have a circumcision?
Absolutely.
Well, Elaine, this might be it if those guys on the ground don't think of something.
I just want you to know, I love you Ted and always will.
That might be the news we've been waiting for.
I've got some news for you, Striker.
 Roger.
One of your passengers is carrying a bomb and is suicidal.
A b...
No, a bomb.
Which passenger is Joe Salucci?
Sixteen 'C', why?
He's carrying a bomb.
A b...
No, a bomb.  Now, as discreetly as possible, I want you to move the passengers into the lounge.
What should I say?
Anything.  Just don't let Salucci think we're onto him.
Would everyone not carrying a bomb please move to the lounge.
 Don't anyone move!
Mr. Salucci, listen to me.
Joe, you don't want to blow that thing and kill all these innocent people.
I don't want to live anymore.
Joe, the insurance policy won't help your wife and kids.  You bought auto insurance, not life insurance.
What?
 That's right, Joe.  Now, no one's going to hurt you and no one has to know what's wrong with you.
You're sure?
I'm sure.
 That's the guy from the terminal who can't get it up!!
Get that bomb, Striker!  Get that bomb!
Come in, Control!  We have the bomb!!
He's got the bomb!!
This is just like an election in Iran.
This heat's getting unbearable.
But it is a dry heat, Ted.
Do we use the bomb to blow that computer or is there another way?  I want to know what everyone thinks.
I think...  ... No.
We could knock out the wall between the cockpit and cabin, and hang plants.
I think...  ... No.
You can't knock that wall out.  That's a support wall, asshole.
I think...  No.
Did I flush?
Then it's settled.  We use the bomb.  Striker, McCrosky.
We've gone over the blueprints and you've got only one option.
 I know what you're going to say, McCrosky -- knock out the wall between the cockpit and cabin and hang plants.
Forget it.  That's a support wall.  Use the bomb.
The b...
I keep telling you, not the b...  The bomb!!
 Why, you'd have to be crazy to try a stunt like that.
You're too low in the womb, Striker! You've got to come out feet first!
 Elaine.  I'm going back there.
Ted... I love you.  Be careful.
 I want everyone on their toes for this one.
And if anyone has any ideas, I want to hear them now.
How about a show just like Hollywood Squares but with kids.  Gary Coleman could host.
Now I want everyone to move to the front of the cabin.
That's fine.  Stay calm.  We just want everyone as far away from the blast as possible.
What are you doing, Ted?  Why are you wearing that mask, Ted?
Simon!  Wait!  What are you doing?!
Under the 'B', sixteen!
I've lost the ship and now I've lost you, Elaine.  I'm getting out.
Simon, I didn't want it to end like this. We can be friends!  You'll die out there.
Maybe.
Simon, what are you saying?!
I'm saying, I can't take the singles scene again, Elaine.
Simon, no!
You want to talk about it now, Commander?
Give me the President of the United States.  Tell him it's the Commissioner.  I don't know how the old man's going to take this.
Houston, sir.
 This is the President... What?!... What?!
I don't think that shuttle's going to make it, sir.
Damnit, Mister, the dignity and integrity of this presidency depends on the success of that mission.  And that's my last word!
Yes, sir.
What's our strategy on this one, sir?
I work for the people of these United States, Frank.  I have to do what's best for them.  Al, kill social security, cancel school lunches only for the poor, dismantle welfare, close all hospitals and public toilets, green light the MX-6, invade Brazil, and bring my horse around after my nap!
Simon just ejected!
Sit down, Elaine.  If this bomb trick works we just might make it.  Simon was a fool to eject now.
You mean...
That's right -- premature ejection.
What will happen to him, Ted?
The sun will heat that thing to over 450 degrees within seconds.  He'll roast like a pig on a spit.
 Are you afraid?
Not when I'm with you, Ted.
I guess you'd have to be a fool not to be afraid at a time like this.
 Are these my hands?
 Are you afraid?
I'm a nurse.  I can't afford to be afraid, Father.
 Are you afraid, Scraps?
 Now how about a little scratch on the inner thigh?
Fifty-six percent of the passengers are afraid.  Twenty-nine percent are not afraid.  Eight percent are undecided and seven percent think Israel should give back Finland.
You better strap yourself in, Testa.  Mission control, this is Mayflower.  Over.
Go ahead, Striker.
 We've got about 60 seconds before that thing blows.  We're set to reprogram for Mercury at zero point five WORP.
 Zero point five WORP?!
That's right.  When the bomb explodes we're going to have a ten foot hole in the fuselage and I want to get there as fast as I can.  I know what this snip can do, McCrosky.
 No one's ever travelled at that speed before.
Last spring we did Europe in nine days.
Heads between the knees!  Between your own knees, Father!
I don't find it easy to talk at a time like this, but I want to say something about that guy up there.  I can sum it all up in one word -- courage, dedication, spirit, pride, selflessness, and g-u-t-s, guts.  Striker's got more guts in his little finger than most of us have in our large intestine.  He's got guts up to his eyeballs, guts coming out of his ears.
Sure it's a cliche but great shortstops are born, not made, and a clown is funny in the circus but when he gets on the highway, he's murder.  It bugged me too when Mr. Ed refused to talk when the neighbors came over but...
 We've blown the computer!  Elaine!  Set course change!
 Set!
Now!
 Compute!
Here goes.
 Point five WORP!
Zero point five WORP, that's half the speed of light.  We really have no idea what can happen to the human body at that speed.
Striker, we're monitoring you.  You're right on course.  At that speed you should hit Mercury in about six minutes.  So give yourself enough time to kill those WORP engines.
 We'll be out of radio range in a few seconds.  I'm going to put you in contact with Mercury Base Alpha Beta for your final descent.  Over.  Stinson, who's in command of Alpha Beta?
Al Hammil?
Not anymore.  It's Rex Kramer, now.
Not Rex Kramer!
No, Rex Kramer.
I know this guy, Ted Striker.  I flew with him during the war.  He was a crack pilot but he didn't have it in the crunch... That is...
Until that day over Chicago.  He brought that busted up 767 out of that storm like a paper glider coming outta the baby blue.
But flying that shuttle is a whole different ballgame.
What's the latest, Lieutenant?
They'll hit our atmosphere in about three minutes, if they hold together.  They've lost their computer and are coming in at zero point five WORP on manual control, sir.
Down scope!
He'll never bring that thing in on manual, but I guess Striker's their only hope.
It's his ship now.  He's the top dog.
The big man.  The numero uno honcho.
The head cheese.
Sir, we have radio contact.
 We're travelling at one half the speed of light.  There is nothing to worry about. However, you might experience some temporary metabolic changes.
Striker, this is Rex Kramer on Alpha Beta. Do you read me?  Over.
That's right, Ted.  Rex Kramer.  We've locked you on track beam.  You're going to have to kill those WORP engines in exactly thirty seconds.  Over.
There's nothing else we can do for those people out there now, except pray.
Now, Striker!  Kill WORP!
Ted, the lever!
 Kramer, the WORP control handle just came off in my hand.
Try another handle!
There are no more handles, only switches.
No buttons?!
 Just switches, lights, and knobs.
 I'd give my right arm to get just one of these buttons or levers up there right now.  Okay, Striker.  You're going to have to pull that lever panel off.
 Screw driver!
Now find a piece of metal and stick it in there.
Will this work, Ted?
Thanks.  I've got something that might work.
A bobby pin.
What the hell is a man doing with a... forget it.  It'll have to do, Striker.
It's working.
 Okay, Striker.  We have you on visual. Just keep her level.
She's coming apart!
Keep her nose up!  Don't fight her!
I'm trying but she's fighting me!
Ted, that's Alpha Beta!
 Now, Striker, there are a few things you have to keep in mind as you get close to the planet's atmosphere.
 First and foremost you have to make one very important decision.
Ted!  We're not stopping!!
Is this a landing you're sure you can make without endangering the lives of your passengers?
 Now, once you've made that decision you have to be very clear about your responsibility to those people on that ship.
Ted!
Their lives, their futures, their goals and aspirations are in your hands, Striker.
 Seat backs up.  Thank you.
 Sir, you really must take your seat.
 We're all with you on this one, Striker. Now get ready to position landing gear, cut engines, and fire your retrorockets.
 Timing's of the essence on a lame duck approach, Striker.  Don't fight her.  Hold her steady.  Nose up.
You'll be all right!  Everyone's going to be okay!
Don't fight her, Striker.  Hold her!  Hold her!  Stay with her, Striker!
Now, hit your landing gear and cut those engines!
 Timing's everything, Striker!  Fire your retro-rockets!
 Now give her full flap and keep that nose up.  Okay, now!
Ted, what's going to happen to us?
FAR, FAR AWAY IN THE DEEPEST REGIONS OF OUR VAST SOLAR SYSTEM, A SMALL, BRAVE GROUP OF PIONEERS EMBARK ON A BOLD NEW ADVENTURE.  THEIR MISSION:  TO OPEN UP A NEW FRONTIER.  THEIR GOAL, TO BUILD A BRAVE NEW WORLD.
Hello, we'd like you to have this flower. We're with the Church of Mercurial Consciousness.  Would you like to make a donation?
