Tomething chases Young Edward through the dark forest. Its P.O.V. is skewed, inhuman. It is gaining on him.
SUPER: 20 YEARS AGO
A dozen uniformed DEPUTIES move through the forest, shining their flashlights around, searching.
What's going on, Adams?
Twenty kids live at this orphanage, Sheriff. All twenty have gone missing.
After the power went out, I went to check on the children. But their beds were empty. Every one of them. They just disappeared...
The Deputies sweep through the forest with their flashlights. The trees are close together, blocking out the moonlight. A thick mist hangs in the trees.
Deputy Adams comes through the trees and emerges into a clearing in the woods.
Deputy Adams enters the Shed.
The Sheriff stands with his Deputies. His walkie-talkie CRACKLES to life.
Sheriff! I found one! White, male, about ten years old. Looks to be unharmed. He's in a utility shed maybe half a mile from the orphanage.
Deputy Adams approaches Young Edward. He takes off his jacket and wraps it around Young Edward's shoulders.
Are you okay, son? Are the other kids around here?
I don't know... I don't remember...
Why don't we start with your name? Do you remember your name?
Edward... Edward Carnby.
SUPER: 20 YEARS LATER
Did you have a nightmare?
You ate cheese with dinner. My mommy says cheese gives you nightmares. Want to see my coloring book?
I think there's a vampire living in my closet, but my mommy says vampires and ghosts aren't real. She says there's nothing to be afraid of in the dark.
Your mother is wrong. Being afraid of the dark is what keeps most of us alive.
Everybody else tells me not to be afraid.
That's because they don't know the truth.
Carnby exits the Terminal and heads over to a row of taxis waiting outside the Terminal. He doesn't carry a suitcase.
So, maybe you're thinking I'm an asshole, trying to scare this poor kid for no reason. But that's where you're wrong. Because I've got my reasons. There's a world around you that you've trained yourself not to see. You've willfully closed your eyes. But your fear of the dark is not a weakness. It's there to protect you from things you'd better pray you never see. My eyes were forced open a long time ago. Now I know. Just because you can't see something, doesn't mean it can't kill you.
Behind the wheel of the taxi sits JAMES PINKERTON (early 50s). His face is drawn, grim. He wears dark sunglasses.
The two taxis drive through traffic. Pinkerton's taxi lags a few cars back, but matches Carnby's taxi move for move.
The CABBIE , manic bordering on crazy, steers through traffic.
You travel light.
Trust me, I'm carrying enough baggage for the both of us.
That's pretty funny, man. What do you do?
You really want to know?
Yeah, man. Hearing about my passengers' lives keeps the job interesting.
I'm a paranormal investigator.
Get the fuck outta here!
What does that mean exactly?
I'm an effective solution to unusual problems.
Speaking of which, that taxi's been following us since the airport.
No shit? Want me to lose him?
If you can...
A busy street crowded with PEDESTRIANS, open shops, and produce stalls.
I'm trapped, man!
I'll draw him away...
Pinkerton comes CRASHING through the display window, landing in a pile of sticky buns and broken glass.
Carnby stands in a crowd of BYSTANDERS, watching in surprise as Pinkerton exits the Bakery, his expression fierce.
Jars of different shapes and sizes containing a variety of medicinal herbs and other such substances are on display.
Carnby BURSTS out of the Herbalist Store's back door, exiting out into a small, cluttered Alley.
Hey!
The refrigerated Ice Factory is filled with neat rows of ice blocks. FACTORY WORKERS mill about, transporting the blocks of ice through the Factory.
The elegant Museum of Natural History. A wide staircase leads up to an entranceway surrounded by stone pillars.
The high-ceilinged Main Hall of the Museum. Glass display cases are set up to showcase archeological artifacts.
Got another delivery, Ms. Cedrac.
I don't have anything scheduled. What museum was it transferred from?
For Dr. Hudgens, from Dr. Hudgens.
It's probably an error. It must be for the big Abkani show.
Abkani? What the hell's Abkani?
Ancient Native American civilization. They were this super-advanced culture, but something like ten thousand years ago, they just disappeared.
You've been reading up.
Not much else to do around here at night.
Says here it's not to be opened by anyone but Dr. Hudgens.
This is Aline Cedrac. She's the assistant curator.
We've got Abkani artifacts coming in from museums around the world. Until Hudgens gets back, I'm doing all the cataloguing anyway.
Where is Hudgens anyway? The show opens in a few days.
Off on another archeological goosechase. He thinks he's finally found the Erebus.
So he sticks you with the work. At least it keeps your mind off your boyfriend.
I'll be in my office if you need me.
What was that all about?
Damn it... I shouldn't have said that. Her boyfriend's been missing for the last three months.
Nice going, jack-ass.
A large Ship out on the open sea.
They say a sunken ship is like a grave. It should never be disturbed.
I've been searching for the Erebus for twenty years, Captain. Now that I've found it, I'm afraid your ill-informed superstitions aren't enough to stop me.
Two DIVERS in high-tech Newt Suits break the surface. They signal to Captain Chernick.
Hudgens nods to Captain Chernick.
Bring it up.
Out of the ocean, the crane raises a large, heavy container.
Carnby unlocks the multiple locks on the front door to his Loft and enters.
Edward, John here. Hope things went well wherever you were this time. And, please, do not, I repeat, do not tell me about it. Every time you tell me about your latest case, I get nightmares for a week. Anyway, give me a call when you get back. Linda wants to have you by for dinner. Lord knows why, but she seems to like you. And if you haven't scared Aline away yet, bring her along.
The Ship is docked at a mist-enshrouded pier. Overhead lights along the dock illuminate the area.
Standing on the Ship's wide deck, Captain Chernick looks impatient. Hudgens stands over the large, barnacle-covered container. The container is secured with a heavy rusted lock.
Don't you want to open it? Make sure it's what you're looking for?
The conditions must be perfect. Otherwise, there will be... consequences.
Is this made of solid gold?
Did you know the Abkani were the first civilization to use gold for their valuables? They believed it held the power to contain evil spirits. Thousands of years later, we don't even remember why gold was valuable to us in the first place. Now, let's load it onto the truck.
Carnby sits in his lab area, studying the lynchpin artifact under an illuminated magnifying lamp.
The Office is cluttered with books, maps, diagrams, and strange artifacts. Along one wall are several ceiling-high shelving units, each containing rows of drawers. The drawers hold artifacts from the Museum's collection.
The pictograms are late-period Abkani. It seems to be some sort of... prophecy. Shadows that make ghosts of men. The world of light consumed by darkness. This is the first indication I've ever seen that the Abkani had a myth about the end of the world.
Captain Chernick approaches Hudgens at the container. The First Mate and Crewman Barnes stand quietly behind them.
If the container's made of gold, whatever's inside must be worth a fortune.
You have no idea...
But I'm looking forward to finding out.
I suppose one should not be surprised when mercenaries act mercenary.
You're making a terrible mistake.
The only mistake would be letting you walk out with whatever's in there. Barnes...
Throw him in there.
Hudgens struggles to his feet. He BANGS on the door, trying to pull it open.
Captain! Don't open it!
The First Mate and Crewman Barnes watch in fasciation as Captain Chernick prepares to open the gold container. APTAIN CHERNICK Let's see what all the fuss is about...
Carnby sits in front of his computer. He scans through screens of information relating to Abkani civilization.
JOHN HOUGHTON  lies asleep in his bed next to his wife, LINDA HOUGHTON .
John?
John exits the house. He walks down the front path and out into the night.
Carnby lies unconscious on the floor.
A low wind wafts through the Main Hall.
Aline sits at her desk, her back to the shelving units. She inspects the stone tablet and takes notes.
As the First Mate and Crewman Barnes watch in anticipation, Captain Chernick opens the gold container all the way.
The lights in the Storage Room start to flicker on and off. Hudgens looks up at the lights.
They're faster than I thought...
he lights continue to flicker. Captain Chernick turns to the Storage Room door. He looks back at the First Mate and Crewman Barnes.
Kill him.
Hudgens stands at the door, listening to the GUNFIRE.
Everything in Bureau 713's Headquarters looks sleek and high- tech. There are no windows anywhere.
his better be good, Miles.
Sir, we're getting some strange readings in the control room.
his is Bureau 713. "Strange" doesn't even crack my radar. Now what's the situation?
Well, sir, normal levels of paranormal activity range from three to five...
condescending) Yes Miles. And what level are the sensors picking up now?
We don't know.
They only go up to 50.
Inside the Control Room, the banks of monitors and sensors are all lit up. Streams of data flow across the monitors.
What are we looking at, Krashinsky?
Electromagnetics off the scale, Commander.
Recalibrating sensors now, sir.
Young Edward  walks through the Den. The lights are all out. The Den is musty, but clean.
Still having trouble sleeping, Edward? You can't stay up all night, you know.
Sister, something's happened.
What is it, Edward?
They're not gone anymore. The others are back.
Sister Clara throws open the door to one of the children's bedrooms. Ten beds are lined up along the wall. All ten of them have CHILDREN asleep in them.
Carnby lurches awake. He is still lying on the floor.
 Hello?
Edward, thank god!
Linda, what's wrong?
 It's John. I woke up and... he's just gone. All his clothes are here. His car's in the garage. It's like he just got up in the middle of the night and walked out.
Linda stands on the Front Porch, her eyes red from crying. Carnby is just leaving. He holds some recent photos of John.
I'll figure this out, Linda. I'll find John.
Edward... you've known each other since you were kids. Did he... did he tell you he was leaving me?
Of course not.
Then where is he, Edward? What's going on?
The Orphanage looks much the same after twenty years. It is slightly more worn-down, but still well-maintained. arnby drives up the gravel driveway in his black SUV. He pulls to a stop behind an old, battered yellow School Bus.
Welcome home, Edward.
Should I make some tea?
Yes. Thank you, Sophie.
Let me get a look at you. Are you sleeping enough?
Sister... John disappeared last night. And something happened to me as well.
It's happening again.
I need your help, Sister. I need to find the others.
I'll get their files.
Carnby is on the phone, sitting in front of his computer. While he speaks, he reads information on the FEDERAL MISSING PERSON DATABASE. The computer processes information.
I'll let you know as soon as I hear something.
The outdoor patio of a downtown Restaurant. Carnby sits with a coffee and a cherry pie at a table for two.
Why did I agree to this?
I ordered for you, Fischer. It's pecan.
You've got a good memory, Carnby.
I tracked down the three you asked about. They all disappeared last night. Same story. No suitcase. No car. Just up and walked out in the middle of the night.
That means all nineteen are missing.
I ran full cross-references. Nothing much in common between them. Except they all grew up in the same orphanage. Your orphanage. What's going on, Carnby?
That's what I'm trying to find out.
Thanks Fischer. It's good to know I've still got friends at 713.
As the sun sets, the streetlights around the Museum all come on in unison, bathing the area in a warm glow.
Aline sits at her desk, notes spread out in front of her. The notes show various Abkani symbols. She writes down comments in the margins.
Hello?
Did a shipment arrive for me today?
It's a fascinating piece, Dr. Hudgens. I started decoding the pictograms and...
 Who told you to do that? That crate was not to be opened.
I was only going to catalogue it for you.
It's not your place to question my instructions, Ms. Cedrac. Leave the tablet alone. I'll catalogue it myself when I get back.
But, Dr. Hudgens, I was just...
There's... somebody here to see you.
Aline exits quickly out of a service door, looking anxious. The Guard scurries after her.
Edward...
I missed you too.
I thought you were dead, you asshole!
Aline... let me explain. In private.
Give me one reason why I'd ever want to speak to you again?
It's Abkani...
Five minutes, Aline. I'll tell you everything.
Carnby stands with Aline at her desk, while she scans a 3-D rendering of the lynchpin artifact into her computer.
I was in the Amazon for six weeks, tracking poachers through their transport lines. Then I fell in with a group of ex- Chilean military selling artifacts on the black-market. This was found in a gold mine in the southern tip of Chile.
And how did you end up with it?
I asked very nicely.
You should've called, Edward. Or written. Just to let me know you were alive.
Does it make any sense to you?
Yesterday, maybe not. But something happened last night.
They were found in completely different locations. Alaska. Newfoundland. Venezuela. And now this one's from Chile.
Ten thousand years ago, it would've been like burying them at the ends of the earth.
The Abkani's written language is based on pictograms. Combinations of symbols to create different meanings. But there's one here I've never seen before.
You're not trying to seduce me, are you?
Give me that.
The lights flicker. Large shadows are cast through the area by the remaining, dim lights.
I don't care if nothing's wrong with the grid. Something's definitely wrong with our power. Get someone down here, pronto.
Carnby and Aline walk down the Hallway. Framed art hangs from the walls. Small sculptures sit on pedestals along the way.
What is it?
Hairs on the back of my neck just stood up.
How come every time you show up, my life gets complicated?
I could ask you the same thing.
Aline leads the way with the flashlight, followed by Carnby. The Hallway is only faintly lit.
Aline and Carnby quietly come out a service door that leads to the Ceramics Room. They conceal themselves behind a pair of columns, scanning the area before they step out.
I think we'd better run...
Aline and Carnby run down the long Hallway, towards a pair of double-doors at the other end.
Carnby leans up against the door, pushing it closed. Aline fumbles for her building keys.
Can't hold it...
Is there any way out of here?
No! Why didn't you ask me that before you pushed me in here?
What do you think?
Those doors lead to the front entrance.
Aline and Carnby quietly open the double-doors leading into the Main Hall.
In a hail of shattered glass, AGENTS BARR , CHEUNG burst through the skylight, rappelling down on zip-lines from the hovering helicopter.
Reading two xenos.
Confirmed.
There!
Losing readings.
Cheung! Marko! Don't let them get away!
Krash reads the data streaming by on her banks of monitors. She speaks into her omnipresent headset.
Readings gone. You lost them, Barr.
Agent Barr holds his rifle trained at Carnby and Aline.
Goddamn it, Krash, I know. Commander Burke, we're secure. And sir... Carnby is here.
The lights around the Museum have come back on.
I want a full security sweep. Miles, get Fischer to send his sci-and-spy boys down here. Now go.
The silhouettes of the five Agents, Burke, and Miles come through the spotlight beams as they enter the Museum.
hat the hell are you doing here, Carnby?
Hey Richie.
It's Commander Burke. This is my unit.
They saved our lives.
You used to be able to take care of yourself, Carnby. Gotten soft since you left 713?
Ms. Cedrac, I'm Agent Miles. This is Commander Burke.
Aline Cedrac. Pleasure to meet you. How's the Ph.D. coming along?
It's fine. Thanks.
Miles, get her to a medic.
I'll catch up.
Why am I still looking at you?
I need to know what those things are.
That information's classified. If you were still an agent, you'd already know. But since you're not, stay out of my way.
I'm asking nicely.
Get him out of here!
You're right, Commander. I guess I have gone soft.
The front of the Museum has been completely blocked off. There is lots of activity, as BUREAU AGENTS mill around.
I want to finish studying those artifacts.
I need to find out what's happened to John and the others. Stay in contact. We'll meet up later.
Burke oversees a team of AGENTS in biohazard suits as they sweep the scene, running scans of the area on high-tech hand- held devices. Photos are snapped by another AGENT.
Commander, I need to get to my office.
The museum's quarantined until we're done.
At least let me pack up my work. There's priceless artifacts in there. If they get damaged...
If you notice anything out of the ordinary, let me know immediately.
I don't think I want to know your definition of out of the ordinary.
The Lab is full of sleek, high-tech lab equipment and state of the art computers. The room is lit with a HUMMING fluorescent light. Surgical equipment and various pieces of high-tech machinery BUZZ by an autopsy slab. Surgical tools are laid out on a table.
You shouldn't be here, Carnby.
I'm not here. Commander Burke is. Now what the hell is that thing inside him?
Your curiosity have anything to do with the fingerprint of yours I found on his corpse?
The list of people I trust is short, Fischer. Is it about to get shorter?
Have you I-D'd him?
Yeah, we got dentals. Agent James Pinkerton. He's ex-713.
He was an agent? When?
Went MIA twenty years ago. Presumed dead. I'm trying to get more intell, but his records are so classified, they're practically invisible. arnby takes the tongs from Fischer, holding open the skin. Fischer makes a series of incisions with the scalpel, disconnecting the spinal-worm from Pinkerton's spine.
It's fused with his nervous system.
I've never seen this kind of symbiosis before.
Scanner's still reading something...
The Abkani never cease to amaze me.
Such a complex society at a time when most of humanity was still hunting and gathering and huddling around fires.
Dr. Hudgens. When did you get back?
A few hours ago. I heard there was some excitement. Are you alright?
I'm fine. A bit shaken up. But fine.
I apologize for snapping at you earlier. Now, what are you still doing here after all you've been through?
Where did you get that image?
Edward.
This is a major find. I'll need to analyze it. Confirm its authenticity.
I can do that myself.
That wasn't a request...
Where is the artifact?
Everything okay in here?
And you are?
Ms. Cedrac's security detail.
My dear, do you have any idea who I...
 Dr. Lionel Hudgens. Former agent, sci-and- spy division. Currently 713 advisor status. I know exactly who you are. But I'm not your "dear" anything.
I'll just have to hold off my curiosity until morning.
Dr. Hudgens... I forgot to ask. Did you find the Erebus this time?
Just an empty shipwreck. You were right. It was another wild goosechase.
Since when do I have a security detail?
Since it seemed like you needed it.
Carnby lies on a bed with his shirt off. Fischer runs the hand-held scanner over Carnby's torso. He looks at the results of Carnby's scan on a monitor.
There's one inside you too. But the symbiosis is incomplete.
Can you remove it?
I could try. But it might paralyze you.
What's missing...
Fischer and Carnby stand in front of an open armory cabinet. Sleek 713 assault rifles are lined up on a rack beside them.
I'm not much for coincidences. These organisms must be connected to those things from the museum.
We call them xenomorphs.
Catchy. When did they first appear?
Two years ago. They've been 713's top priority ever since. But it's been almost exclusively in rural areas. This kind of urban infiltration is unprecedented.
Have you isolated any weaknesses?
Most metals pass right through them. So normal bullets and blades are useless. But they're vulnerable to elements 76 to 79. Osmium, iridium, platinum, and gold. Negates their ability to disrupt electricity.
If they disrupt electricity, why did my flashlight still work?
The closer the current to its power source, the less disruption.
This is calibrated to track their disruption field. It won't help you see them, but you'll know when they're nearby.
They live almost exclusively in darkness. Sunlight's lethal in large doses. But only certain light frequencies hurt them.
These lamps are set to an effective frequency.
But for maximum damage, we use bullets coated in a photon-accelerated luminescent resin. Cuts right through them.
I'm going to need a lot of those.
Carnby unlocks the multiple locks on the front door to his Loft and enters. He carries a heavy duffle-bag. He looks exhausted.
Five minutes...
Fischer sits at his computer. He is going through the Bureau 713 database. He pulls up Pinkerton's file. A red CLASSIFIED sign flashes onscreen.
Fischer...
Commander Burke wants to see you.
Aline walks up to an imposing, slightly decrepit-looking old brick building in a bad area of town.
Aline enters the Loft. She looks around.
Edward?
I see nothing's changed...
Edward?
Sweet dreams...
Have you been meeting with Carnby?
Yes. He's got intell we need. And I trust him.
We've got to trust each other, Fischer. Are you with us or not?
What do you need from me?
All the intell you've got on Edward Carnby.
What else could I do? I had to tell him.
You did the right thing, Paul. From what you've told me, Carnby can take care of himself.
I'll get it. You stir.
Sarah? Answer me! Sarah!
If you can't beat us, Fischer, join us.
It's night. The Loft is dark. Carnby and Aline are fast asleep on the bed, lying next to one another.
Something smells amazing.
I love omelettes.
I know.
I figured out a connection with the symbols on those artifacts. They correspond to constellations. But something's missing.
Maybe this will help...
Can you run the program on this?
What are we looking for?
The Abkani used constellations to pin- point a geographical location. But I don't think I can isolate it closer than a hundred mile radius.
Edward...
Yeah. That's us right there.
Carnby puts the dishes from their meal into the Kitchen sink. The sink tap is RUNNING. Aline clears the dishes.
John?
Behind you!
That looked like John.
It is. The other two are from the orphanage as well.
You had no choice.
Something's controlling them.
How many are there altogether?
Twenty. Including me.
We'd better get out of here.
Carnby located.
Multiple readings confirmed. Back-up's on the way.
Roger that. We're hot.
Aline!
Where the hell's our back-up?
Landing.
We're clear, sir.
Love what you've done with the place, Carnby.
Sir, this one's infected too!
Got another one here!
Drop your weapon and get down on the ground.
What are you doing?
He's been infected with some kind of organism. He could be under its control.
It's true. I've got one inside me. But it's not controlling me.
You'll excuse me if I don't take your word for it. Now drop your weapon.
Get out of the way!
He's not one of them.
If I've got to shoot through you to get to him, I'll do it.
Why are the lights still out?
Scanner's clear.
Krash?
Negative.
CONTINUED:
Forget to pay your power bill, Carnby?
All Agents! You've got to kill the organism to stop them! Aim for the spine!
Confirmed. Spinal shot's a kill shot.
You remember the number one rule they teach you in 713 training? Trust your instincts.
Fischer's missing. So is Hudgens. And I've got a situation brewing that makes this scrap look like a bar brawl.
What does Hudgens have to do with this?
That's what I want to find out. I need you both to brief me in the air.
Oh, and Carnby... I'll need my I-D back.
A massive, long-abandoned structure built directly against the face of a mountain. This is the Entrance Hall of Britannia Mine.
Krash! What are you reading?
We're practically off the scale, Commander. This is unprecedented. Should I initiate Contingency Nine-Alpha?
The military? We don't have time to wait for them to mobilize.
Is that a negative, Commander?
No. Initiate Nine-Alpha on my authority. But I won't hold my breath. By the time this clears Defense Council, we'll be dead or drinking...
Rusty construction vehicles, detritus, and rubble lie discarded throughout the Hall. Several shafts have been dug into the mountain. Narrow paths lead up the slope.
We've got three perimeters of flash- mines. Gatling guns are set to electromagnetic motion tracking. And every available agent in the vicinity is here. But Commander...
I know, Miles. But back-up won't make it before sunrise.
Generator will be on-line shortly, sir.
It looks like you're going to war.
We are. The highest xeno concentration on record is closing in on this location. This could be our chance to wipe them out once and for all.
We need to go down there.
What?
They're coming here for a reason. Until we know what they're after, we're never really going to be able to stop them.
Something's definitely down there, sir. But there's too much interference to get a clear reading from here.
Goddamn it. Miles, you're in charge of perimeter defense. Nothing gets in or out until we find out what's down there.
I've been thinking about something. The Abkani prophecy. The shadows that make ghosts of men...
Every culture has a story about the end of the world.
But not every story starts to come true.
It's definitely this way, sir.
The Tunnel ends at a slightly larger, rounded Chamber with walls of solid rock. They can't go any further. Cobwebs and thick dust hang everywhere.
It's a dead end.
Readings are getting stronger.
We'll double-back. Take another tunnel.
Wait. Aline, look at this...
They're Abkani.
There's more over here.
What do you got, Marko?
Marko!
The Shaft drops into a round, sand-covered room. Razor-sharp spikes poke out of the loose sand beneath the Shaft.
46                                                                     146 The others rush to the lip of the Shaft. They can barely see the illumination of Marko's flashlight in the depths below.
We've got to get down there.
Defense perimeter's up. Still waiting for the generator to come on-line.
We're retrieving Marko. Keep me posted.
How long do we have to hold them?
Only until dawn.
Sir... that's four hours away.
I know.
n the side of a mountain rising up over Britannia Mine, Hudgens and Fischer stand watching the activity below.
Dozens of Agents in full combat gear are in position. They are armed, tense, and ready.
Incoming!
Agent Miles runs up to Agent Turner. He is still tinkering with the generator. The spotlights are still off.
Where the hell are the lights?
The generator's not coming on-line. They must be disrupting it.
Burke, and Agents Barr and Cheung lower themselves down the Shaft on zip-lines. They descend quickly and smoothly.
We've got incoming! What are your orders?
Hold tight, Miles. Once we retrieve Marko we're coming back up. Whatever's down here is going to have to wait.
In the distance, a bright flash goes off. Then another. And another. The flashes light up the landscape. The inhuman SQUEALS of the creatures can be heard in the distance.
They've hit the outer perimeter.
Electromagnetics around the mine are off the scale.
Krash? Report! Krash?
The friction from the Shaft walls is the only thing slowing the stone column's relentless descent down the Shaft.
Aline!
Cheung! Cut the line!
As Agent Cheung lands, she breaks her ankle from the impact. She SCREAMS in pain.
It's a warning.
Subtle.
The gist of it is, even if you make it down here alive, you're already dead.
Krash, I need another exit. Can you run a sonar pulse at this depth?
Krash? Are you reading me? Miles?
Can't get through to Krash either. Too much interference.
Use the second perimeter as your firing mark. I'll be there as soon as I find a way out.
Hold your fire until they're at the second perimeter.
Fire!
The THUNDERING GUNFIRE of the rotating gatling guns fills the air. Thousands of glowing bullets streak through the night.
Ammo running low! How many of these goddamn things are there?
Cheung tests her injured ankle. She can walk with a limp.
Aline!
We've got to get up there.
Hit it.
The creatures HISS and recoil from the spotlight beams. Some begin smoldering under the glare.
They're turning back! here's a moment of quiet. The Agents slump back, relieved. The creatures are all gone.
We've got to refuel and reload. We'll be back ASAP.
Confirmed.
We made it, sir.
Fischer?
arr and Carnby lay Cheung and Marko's bodies to one side of the Chamber, their faces covered with their vests.
Miles! Re-route those `copters! Pull all agents back into the mine! Set formation in teams of three! Miles!
Goddamn it!
We'll find a way out.
It's just like the organism Fischer took out of Pinkerton.
Maybe this is what they look like when they grow outside a human host?
I think you'd better see this.
Feenstra!
Aline, Carnby, Burke, and Barr stand in front of the dark recess in the Sand Chamber. The recess is completely sealed up by a solid concrete wall. line comes up to the concrete wall, running her hands along its flat surface. It is obviously not Abkani.
The Abkani didn't put this here.
There's no way through.
There's always a way...
I'm out.
Last one.
Commander? Krash? Anyone?
I can't walk. If I lay down suppressing fire, maybe you can make it out of here.
I die fighting or I don't die at all.
Carnby, Aline, Barr, and Burke take cover behind the stone column. Burke holds a remote detonator. It is active.
You sure this is going to work?
Carnby, Aline, Barr, and Burke step over the rubble of the concrete wall. They shine their lights around the dark room.
What is this place?
This is where it happened.
Commander...
Edward, look...
So it's a key.
ALINE The pictograms carved here make it pretty clear that's a bad idea.
Two, we set enough C-4 to bury this place. Keep whatever's in there, down here for good.
The answers I've been looking for my whole life could be in there.
Some doors are locked for a reason.
Barr... how much C-4 you got left?
Enough to blow this place to...
I'm afraid I can't allow that.
Now drop your weapons and back away.
Our early work was crude, I admit. But eventually we perfected the implant process. You were our last failure, Carnby. If you hadn't escaped, 713 never would've shut down the experiments. Burke's eyes flash with anger.
There's no way this was sanctioned. HUDGENS Before your kind took over, 713 had very different... priorities. Now, you just blaze in and destroy everything before we can learn to control it. I've wasted twenty years working in secret because of short-sighted men like you. Hudgens sees the Abkani device Aline is holding.
There it is... Aline's expression is firm, unafraid. She grips the device tightly. Hudgens is about to pull the trigger.
You were a fine archeologist.
Aline...
Give him the key. Enough people have died today.
You couldn't have opened it anyway. Not without this...
Insert the key. line inserts the device into the opening in the door.
Now turn it.
When we found the first of them, 713 saw just another threat to be eliminated. But I knew it was something more. It was the first. The first to wake. I've woken others since then. But the rest are coming...
These doors won't hold them for long
Once we get out, we can remote detonate.
Look at the dust on the floor. This is where Hudgens got in.
Over there!
Aline climbs up the rungs of the ladder built into the Shaft wall. Carnby climbs up after her. urke stands at the bottom of the Shaft, looking up at them. Carnby stops climbing and looks down at Burke.
The remote detonator's inactive. The signal can't get through.
We'll find a way.
You saved my life, Carnby. I don't much like debts.
Burke!
Edward... if he detonates those charges, we're all dead.
A small Storm Cellar is built into a corner of the Orphanage's front lawn. The corrugated metal doors are locked from the outside with a chain and rusty padlock.
They were under us the whole time.
Where are all the children?
Something's very wrong...
Carnby and Aline walk along a deserted street. The sun rises above them. It's a beautiful day.
Edward... what's going on?
Remember what Hudgens said? I was his last failure. He said he perfected the implant process.
It can't be...
Then where the hell is everybody? Where's everybody gone?
Here's what I know. There are two worlds on this planet. A world of light and a world of darkness. For millions of years, these worlds were in balance. But now, the lights of human civilization burn everywhere. The dark places are disappearing. We forced them to come out of the shadows. Now, it's my job to force them back in. My name is Edward Carnby. I'm here to protect you from things you don't believe in.
Aline...
Yes Edward?
It's going to be a busy day.
