This is the problem. This is what's wrong with America.
It's gotten so big you can't find your way.
The corner grocery's a supermarket. Candy store's a MacDonald's. And this place.  
What right do they have cutting out the suppliers, pushing all the middlemen out, buying direct from the manufacturer - Sony this, Toshiba that, all them Chinks - putting Americans out of work?
What am I supposed to do with a place like this, Frank? Who am I supposed to ask for, the assistant manager?  This is the problem. This is the way it is now: You can't find the heart of anything to stick the knife.
What is it?
Somebody call an ambulance!
Forget it, Frank. No one's in charge.
- whose passing has brought together a who's who of mourners on this chilly afternoon. The Governor has come down. The mayor of New York - its Chief of Police and Commissioner - sports and entertainment luminaries -
White wine, please.
How you doing, Frank?
All right.
What a loss.  How are you otherwise?   Things okay financially? 
Bumpy set something up for you?
Hey, Frank, get me an ashtray while you're at it.
I know you're hurting, Frank.    So am I.
You going to be all right?
Yeah.
I'm sure Bumpy never told you, but he made me promise, anything ever happened to him, I'd make sure you didn't go without.
I'll be fine, Charlie. Half the people here owed Bumpy money when he died. A lot of money. If they think I'm going to forget to collect, they're wrong.
That's the spirit. Go get them.
I live in fear of hearing my name called.
Mr. Roberts, Give us U.S. vs. Meade -
Of walking up there, turning around, knowing every one of them knows more than I do -
Subject, issues, what the determination was and what it means to us today.
You know the Number 1 fear of most people isn't dying; it's public speaking. They get physically ill. They throw up.
And that's what you want to do for a living.
I don't like being like that.     I want to beat it.
Hey -
Who's going to do this?
He knows me, he'll take it from me. I've known him since high school.
Just throw it in, he doesn't take it. That's good service.
Throw it -
Down -
I swear to God, Richie, I didn't know it was you. I would never slam a door on your hand. Knowingly.
You bit my fuckin hand -
What can we do, Richie? You don't want to do this. For old times sake, what can we do? Who do you want? Who can I give you? You want Big Sal's bookie? You want his accountant? I'll give him to you.
Now just enough for the reagent test.
This is the French Connection dope. The same dope Popeye Doyle and Sonny Grasso took from us.
They seize it, arrest everybody, whack it up and sell it back to us. Our dope. They been living off it for years, these New York cops.
They basically control the market with it. What the fuck has happened to the world, Frank?
Fuckin crooks.
Sad about Bumpy.
Things are never going to be the same in Harlem. The girls, the clubs, the music - walk down the street, nobody bothers you because Bumpy's making sure of it. (hands Frank one of the espressos) How bad is it there now?
It's chaos.    Every gorilla for himself.
Who can live like that? There has to be order. That would never happen with Italians. More important than any one man's life - is order.
Thank you, Charlene.      Last one.
It's all right with me, Frank, you can stay all day if you want, but I wouldn't. It's nice outside.
Then maybe I'll have to go for a walk. Just cause you said so.
On the house for our men in uniform.
Why, thank you, sugar, that's very kind.
Thank Frank.
How's Nate?   You seen him?
All the time. Nate is everywhere. He's good. Got himself a club now.
Where, Saigon?
Bangkok.
I don't think he's ever coming home.
You're gonna have to boot it a couple times. Cops keep cutting it, selling it, cutting it -
I don't want to say anything cause the price is right - but the shit in Nam is way, way, way, way, way -
That's him.
All right.   Get lost.    Get out.
We gonna stay with him or the car?
Let's see who comes for the car.
Think he made us?
You called for the warrant?     Where are they?
I just called. I called and walked back here and ten seconds has gone by.
We saw him with the slips, Javy.
You saw policy slips? You saw grocery bags. You don't know what's in them.
Yes, I do, and so do you, don't give me that bullshit -
What's the rush? Half an hour the warrant'll be here -
I got night school.
Guess you're going to miss it. (Rivera sips at his coffee; then:) You know, what you were saying before - about throwing up in front of people - money will take that feeling away.
Not when it's less.
Less than what.
Than what I make now.
No lawyer on earth makes less than a cop.
They do in the Prosecutor's Office. Three thousand less. RIVERA You're fuckin kidding me.
Fuck this -
Richie -
Check inside.
Javy ...
This isn't a couple of bucks.
It's the same thing.   In principle.
We're talking about principle?
Richie, a cop who turns in this kind of money says one thing: He'll turn in cops who take money. We'll be pariahs. RICHIE We're fucked either way.
Not if we keep it. Only if we don't. Then we're fucked, you're right. But not if we keep it.
 Yes, we are.
Goddamn it, did we ask for this? Did we put a gun to someone's head and say, Give us your money? Cops kill cops they can't trust. We can't turn it in.
How much.
Nine hundred and eighty thousand.
What happened to the rest?
What're you doing counting this in front of everybody? Are you out of your fuckin mind? Take it into a room. Now.
Didn't you see the jar, Frank? I think you walked right past it.
The money jar. On the corner.      What I got to do, put a sign on it?
Bumpy don't own 116th Street no more, Frank. Bumpy don't own no real estate in Harlem no more. I'm the landlord now and the lease is twenty-percent.
Then don't sell dope, Frank. Get a fuckin job. You need a job? You can be my driver, drive me around, open my door, yes, sir, no sir, where to, sir, right away, Massa Johnson, sir.
Twenty percent?
Of every dollar. Every VIG, every truckload, every girl, every ounce.      In the jar.
Twenty percent's my profit. If I'm giving it to you then what am I doing? Twenty percent puts me, and everyone you know, out of business, which puts you out of business. (reaches for his breakfast check) There are ways to make money legitimately, and then there's this way. Not even Bumpy took twenty percent.
Bumpy's fuckin dead.
There.   That's twenty-percent.
A leader is like a shepherd -
Sends the fast nimble sheep out front, and the others follow as the shepherd walks quietly behind -
He's got the stick - the cane - and he'll use if he has to.  
What right do they have cutting out the suppliers, the middlemen, buying direct, putting Americans out of work ... This is the way it is now, Frank.
Get yourself a new suit.
I'm sorry.
I don't know, Richie.
It couldn't be avoided. Next weekend I'll be able to take him.
I'm moving.
What?   Where?
To the St. Regis, what do you care.  My sister's.
Your sister's. In Vegas?
You can't move to Vegas.     Not with Michael anyway.
What am I supposed to do with him?       Leave him with you? There's a picture.
 Hey, you want to shut up over there?
No court will allow it for one thing. I won't allow it.
You?
When am I supposed to see my son?
Last weekend!
Laurie, you can't raise a kid in Las Vegas.
Oh, like this is a good environment. Around your friends. There are less creeps in Vegas.
What's he going to grow up to be in a mobbed up place like that? What are you thinking?
I'm thinking - Richie - of him!
Goddamn it -
I told you nice to shut the fuck up. Now I'm gonna kill you.
Pick up the fuckin glass!
Frank - ?
He say how much he wants?
He said "a lot." What that means, I don't know. Four or five keys?
He's your cousin.
My cousin-in-law.    My ex-wife's cousin.
Ask him how much he wants.
How much you gonna want, Frank?
A hundred kilos.
No one I know can get that much. It'd have to be pieced together from several suppliers and none of it's gonna be 100- percent pure.
That's not what I want.
I know that. But that means dealing with the Chiu-Chou syndicates in Cholon or Saigon - if they'll deal with you -
No, even then it's too late. It's been chopped. I want to get it where they get it. From the source.
You're gonna go get it.
Why not.
You're gonna go into the fuckin jungle -
I've lived in jungles all my  -
No. This is the jungle. Tigers. Vietcong. The fuckin snakes alone will kill you.
He says this whole area's controlled by the Kuomintang - Chiang Kai-Shek's defeated army.
They ain't Chinese.
How would you get it into the States?
What do you care?
Who do you work for in there?
What do you care?
Who are you really?
It says right there.   Frank Lucas.
I mean, who you represent?
Me.
You think you're going to take a hundred kilos of heroin into the US and you don't work for anyone? Someone is going to allow that?
I don't believe a word of this.
After this first purchase, if you're not killed by Marseilles importers - or their people in the States - then what?
Then there'd be more. On a regular basis. Though I'd rather not have to drag my ass all the way up here every time.
Of course not.
Where's it now?
Bangkok. I can bring it here or anywhere in between.
A hundred kilos.  I never seen that much dope in one place. NATE It's bigger than an Amana refrigerator- freezer.
Fifty grand. In advance. That'll cover them, the pilots and the guys on the other end.
Give them a hundred.
Fifty, to cover them all.
A hundred. And it's all I got left. So if that dope doesn't arrive, for whatever reason -  Cousin or no cousin - don't let me down.
I'll let you know when it's in the air.
Richie? Richie, I'm in trouble.    This fuckin guy "made" me - I don't know how but he did. He went for his gun. I had to do it, I swear to God. Now they're going to kill me.
Who.
There's a hundred people out there heard the shots. You gotta help me. You gotta do something.
Is he dead?
He's dead.    I'm dead. They're gonna kill me.
Where are you? Javy, where are you?
That's the problem.
There are no cars in that area, Detective Roberts.
Bullshit. I got a man in trouble and I need back-up.
I missed that - you're breaking up -
I said, put the fucking call out again -
I just did. No one responded.     I'll try again, but -
Fuck you, too.
Sergeant, I'm not asking, I'm fuckin telling you: Get some patrolmen over here now.
You got no back-up? Why is that?
Bandage his head.
Detective ... he's dead.
I know he's fucking dead. Bandage his head, clean him up, put him on a gurney and prop it up so he's sitting. And open his eyes.
Step back, injured man coming out. Let them do their job and he'll be all right. Ma'am. Excuse me. Step back. Sir. Please.
Thank you -
You robbed him, didn't you.
What?   What are you talking about?
This.   Where'd this come from?
What. That's my money. I've never taken dirty money in my life.
You lying piece of shit -
Maybe the occasional gratuity. Like anybody else. You're going to tell me that's wrong?
Yeah.
No, it isn't. It's part of the salary for getting shot at. For that, certain courtesies are shown. In gratitude -
A discount on a TV, a Doughboy in the backyard, a new dress for your girlfriend maybe once a year. I'm talking about not living in fucking poverty. You want to call that wrong, call it wrong.
It's wrong.
Then goddamn it, pay me fifty grand a year, you son of a bitch. Pay me what I deserve for getting shot at. No? Fine. Next time four guys come into your place with sawed-off shotguns, you take care of it.
You robbed him, and then you shot him, and I helped you get out of there. How many more you shot? 
You know what, Richie? Fuck you, you make that kind of accusation against your own kind. And you know why.
You're a disgrace.
I'm a leper. Because I listened to you and turned in a million fucking dollars. You know who'll work with me after that? Same as you. No one.
Don't look down there. Look here.  You ever fuckin threaten me again, I'll kill you.
Open the trunk.
Typically what I see is 25 to 45 percent pure. I've never seen anything like this. No alkaloids, no adulterants, no dilutents. It's a hundred percent. May I?
Take it with you. I don't want to have to call the coroner.
Store it in a cool, dark place.
Yeah ... for you.
Who is it?
Yeah.
Teddy.
Who's this?
Frank.
Frank who?
Frank your brother.
I'm not talking about your proclivities, Richie. Those I only know too well. I'm talking about being a cop.
About taking money? I don't care about money. I don't do that.
Because it'll come out. You're going to have to sit down with shrinks and social workers, her lawyers, the judge, lots of questions.
What's going on there?
Scheduling.
No, the money.
Scheduling. What about your friends from the neighborhood? You still hang out with them?
I play softball on Sundays with some guys.
Wise guys.    That's going to look good.
I grew up with them, big deal.
What about Anthony Zaca?
What about him? SHEILA Richie, I'm just trying to understand things your wife has said. If they're not true, tell me.
Yeah, Tony's one of them.
Is he also your son's godfather?
Do you really care about this? Or do you just not want her to win - ever. How often do you see your son as it is?
Not enough.   But she wants to make it never.
Yeah, all right. Give me a twenty. (Richie doesn't reach for his wallet) Well, I'm not going to sit here all day.
All rise -
The front door opens and Frank comes out, trailed by his dog. He first gathers his mother in an embrace, then each of his startled brothers.
He got an arm on him.     Major League arm, ain't that right.
You show me after supper.
You can't catch him. He'll take your head off. We're talking 95-mile-an-hour. You know how fast that is? You see the ball leave his hand, and that's the last you see it before it knocks you down.
 Is that right.
This is your room.
How did you ...
I had it made. From memory. MRS. LUCAS You were five when they took it away. How could you remember it?
I remember.
It's perfect.  It's all perfect.  I'm so proud of you.
The man I worked for ran one of the biggest companies in New York City for almost fifty years.
I was with him every day for fifteen of them, looking after him, taking care of things, protecting him, learning from him.
Bumpy was rich, but never white   man rich. Why? Because he didn't own the    company. He thought he did. He didn't.     He only managed it. Someone else owned    it. So they owned him.
Nobody owns me. Because I own my company.
And my company sells a product that's better than the competition's at a price that's lower.
What are we selling, Frank?
Hi, Frank.
Honey, these are my brothers.
What matters in business is honesty, integrity, hard work, loyalty, and never forgetting where you came from.
You are what you are and that's one of two things. You're nothing ... or you're something. Understand what I'm saying?
I'll be right back.
Hey, Tango, what's up.    I was just thinking about you.  
The fuck you want, Frank -
What're you going to do, boy? Shoot me in broad daylight? In front of everyone?
Yeah, that's right.
For the cops. Should be enough.
That basically's the whole picture right there.
Did you know his girlfriend? Good- looking girl. One of his informants.
Beth.
Should've seen their place.    Like animals lived there.
I have seen it.
 Chose a good night, huh?   Grand Central Station in here.
It's been like this. I'm lucky I get home before midnight; lots of careless- ness.
Heroin addiction is no longer exclusive to big city neighborhoods; it's epidemic -
It's a dog and pony show.
It's not being advertised as one.
But it's federal. I'd have to answer to who? FBI?
Me and the U.S. Attorney. No one else. No FBI. Hoover knows better than to mix his men with dope. Too much temptation for the feeble-minded.
Richie, a detective who doesn't have the cooperation of his fellow detectives can't be effective.
You know why I don't have it.
Doesn't matter.
No, they're all on the take and I'm not and it doesn't matter to anyone. Instead of giving you a medal for turning in money, they bury you.
It's fucked up. You're right. Maybe this's an opportunity away from all that.
I'll do it, but only like this: I don't set foot in a police station again. I work out of a place of my own. And I pick my own guys. Guys I know wouldn't take a nickel off the sidewalk.
Done.
This is the only floor we'll be using.
No loan, no contingencies.    Cash sale.
Mr. Joe Louis, ladies and gentlemen.
Who's the beauty queen?
She is a beauty queen.    No kidding. Miss Puerto Rico. Her glance crosses Frank's briefly but is yanked to the entrance of the club when Frank's brothers come in with their wives and girlfriends. Teddy's in a parrot green suit, gold chains, hat, acting like he owns the place.
What is this?
What. These are clothes.     This is a very nice  -
I'm wearing clothes. These are clothes. Those -  - are a costume. With a sign on it that says Arrest me. You look like fuckin Jackie Fox.
What's wrong with Jackie.    I like Jackie.
You like Jackie? You want to be Superfly? Go work for him, end up in a cell with him.
The guy making all the noise in the room is the weak one. That's not who you want to be.
He wants to talk to you by the way.     I told him I'd tell you.
You and Jackie were talking about me?
Not about you. We were talking. He said he wanted to talk to you about something.
I'm taking you shopping tomorrow.
I went shopping today.
You go shopping every day.    Like a girl.
It's a tax thing. It's a mistake my lawyers will straighten out, but for the time being it's a headache -
How much you owe?
It's nothing, like - fifty grand.
Sure.   Don't worry about it.
Thank you.   I'll pay you back soon as -
Joe. It's a gift. Not a loan.       You don't owe me nothing.
Hi.   I'm Ana.
I'm Frank.
You're Frank and this is your place. (he doesn't say whether it is or not) Why's it called Small's? Why don't you call it Frank's?
Because I don't have to.
I'm reluctant to bring anyone in I don't personally know.
You know me, and I vouch for them.
Richie, we work together. You want me, you got to take them, too.
Where are they? Spearman looks out across the crowded dance floor.
That's Jones. With the skinny white woman.
That's Abruzzo, with the fat black one.
Both are good with wires. Have good informants. They're honest. And they're fearless. They'll do anything. They're insane, Richie, like you.
I got it.
I hope you weren't waiting long. A woman as beautiful as you shouldn't have to wait for anything.
This is your father?
You really don't know who that is?  It's Martin Luther King.
It is not.
You're right. He was as important as Dr. King, though. 
What'd he do?
A lot of things. He had a lot of friends. He served New York and it served him.
What was he to you?
Teacher.
What'd he teach you?
How to take my time ... how if you're going to do something, do it with care ... do it with love.
Anything else?
How be a gentleman.
That's what you are?
I got five different apartments in the city I could've taken you to. I brought you here instead -
To meet my mother.
Is this her? Oh, she's beautiful, Frank. Look at her. She's an angel come down from heaven.
Our mandate is to make major arrests. No street guys - we want the suppliers - the distributors.
Heroin, cocaine, amphetamines. No grass under a thousand pounds. Less than that, someone else can waste their time.
We'll be handling big shipments, big money, big temptation.  Yeah.
There's a story about you. About turning in some money. A lot of money. Is it true?
It's not true.
Stuff's ten percent pure. Strong enough to smoke for all those suburban white kids afraid of needles.
You paid ten bucks for it?
And it's all that's out there.
Now, how is that possible? Who can afford to sell shit twice as good for half as much? Richie glances to a Table of Organization: Surveillance photos haphazardly thumb-tacked to a bulletin board - known dope men in the hierarchies of their individual crime families - almost all of them Italian.
We're going to be here all night if we count every bill.
You got a stockbroker, Frank?
I deal with enough crooks as it is.
This one couldn't be more honest. Ask around. He's got a lot of clients in the business. You can't leave all your money in safety deposit boxes; give him a call.
Frank.   This is Mike Sibota.
Mr. Sibota.   What can I get you?
A left-hander from what Charlie tells me. Your nephew?
It's been his dream all his life to play for the Yankees - and he's good enough.
So I hear. You have him come see me. We'll give him a try-out.
What's this? (taking a .45 from Jimmy's pocket) Oh, that's it, I'm taking you in.
 You can't take me in for that, I got       a license for that, motherfucker.
 This then - (the pile of coke on the coffee table) But first -
All right, now I'm arresting you.
Let him go.   This is for you.
What is that, a bribe?     Oh, now you're all under arrest. 
What is that?
I'm taking you all in.
I said, what the fuck was that?
What was what?
Oh, he's all right. I just shot him in the leg. You got a health plan, what are you complaining about. He's fine. Here -  Five hundred all right? Six? Look, he's feeling better all the time.
I can't have this kind of stupidity.
It was an accident.   He feels terrible about it.
He doesn't feel shit, coked up all the time. Get rid of him.
Frank. He's your cousin. What's he gonna do? Go back home? I'll talk to him. I'll straighten him out.
Gimme those glasses.
What?   Why?
Ice Pick Paul goes here -
No, he's under Benny Two-Socks -
No, you're thinking of Benny the Bishop. Benny Two-Socks is Tosca's deadbeat son- in-law. SPEARMAN Jonesy's right.
What're you doing?     We just -
For a cop the uppermost thing is the arrest. For a prosecutor, the arrest is nothing without the evidence to convict. We don't have any real evidence on anyone on this board, so they're coming down. We're starting over from the street.
What are you, a prosecutor all of a sudden?
Those snow tires you give me last time come in yet? I'm going to want some more of them, gimme one and a half more of them.
This is more than a year's salary, Richie. If it disappears, I won't be able to get it for you again.
It'll never be out of my sight.
It's got to be `Blue Magic.'
Yeah, yeah, it's `Blue.' You can pick it up here tomorrow. Where's the rest of the money?
That's half. I'll give you the other half tomorrow when you give -
No, no, no, I don't do that.    Go fuck yourself.
He's going into New York.   Are we?
What are they going to do, arrest us?
They could. New York cops.     They can do worse than that.
We're not losing that money.    Go.
Get out.
What?
Get the fuck out of the car!
That's my money.
The bills are sequenced and registered with the Essex County Prosecutors Office. All begin with CF3500. Take a look.
Honest mistake. Just give it back to me.
When's the last time I was in Jersey? Let me think. Never. What're you doing coming over here without letting anybody know? You don't know you can get hurt doing that?  
What do we hate most? Isn't it the transgressions of others we fear we're capable of ourselves?
Richie - cops are like -
Yeah, I know, like everyone else. Some of them will steal no matter what. There can be a camera on them they'll do it. Some'll never do it. The rest are capable of either, depending how their department leans ... Only theirs isn't leaning, it's fallen over. The patrol cars don't even stop in Harlem, just roll down the window so the dealers can throw the money in. I saw drops made on precinct steps. TOBACK What were you doing there?
It's where this dope is coming from. Blue Magic. Out of New York. What am I supposed to do, ignore it?
The cab driver's filed aggravated assault and grand theft charges -
He wouldn't stop. Motherfucker almost ran me over.
- which he may reconsider depending on the amount the State of New Jersey offers to settle -
I told him I was a cop.      I showed him my identification.
You stole his cab and broke his arm.
I was chasing your 20 thousand dollars.
I don't want to hear about you going into New York anymore.
Then my investigation's over.
You're not listening to me. I said: I don't want to hear about it ... You do whatever you have to do, go wherever you have to go to find out who's bringing this shit into the country ... Just don't tell me.  Get some sleep. A150 - 152 OMIT                                       A150 - 152 OMIT
Mr. Roberts?    I'm here for our appointment.
From Child Social Services?
When you asked me to be your son's godfather, I took it very seriously.
I know.
I said yes, I'd take on this responsibility, take care of your son, God forbid something happened to you -
Tony, the things she's telling Child Social Services make me look very bad: Out all night. Lowlife informants hanging around.   Women -
Old friends like me.
It's all right. I understand. They ask me, I'll tell them what you want me to tell them. I'll lie for you.
Thank you.
What.
You don't have to talk about it, you don't want. What do you hear about Blue Magic? Anything?
A lot of sorrow and misery from guys being put out of business. That's all. 
Nothing about who's bringing it in?
Guys down south is all I heard.
Down south, Florida?   Cubans?   What.
I don't know. All I can tell you is whoever it is, they're upsetting the natural order of things.
Pull -
The whole place was imported brick by brick from Gloucestershire.
It's very nice.
Pull -
She's a lovely girl.    You should marry her.
Too many things to look after right now to think about that.
Frank. That's a mistake. If I may say. Don't take her for granted, girl like that.
You interested in history, Frank? The events that have brought us to where we are today? You know who was? Bumpy.
Bumpy was interested in a lot of things.
I always wonder if people know when history's being made. And what they're doing at the time. This, for instance, could be a historic moment, and you're sipping a glass of ice water.
Bumpy and I did a lot of business together, as you know. Whatever he needed, he'd come to me and I'd do my best to provide it. He came to me, I didn't go to him, is the point I'm trying to make. You know why?
He didn't have what you needed. You had what he needed. We've always had to come to you.
Yes.   Until now.
Monopolies are illegal in this country, Frank, because no one can compete with a monopoly. If they let the dairy farmers do that, half of them would go out of business tomorrow.
I'm just trying to make a living.
Which is your right. Because this is America. But not at the unreasonable expense of others. That's un-American.  You know the price you pay for a gallon of milk doesn't represent its true cost of production. It's controlled. Set.
I set a price I think is fair.
It's very unfair, in fact. Your customers are happy, but what about your fellow dairy farmers? You're not thinking of them.
 I'm thinking of them as much as they ever thought of me.
All right. I can see you're getting excited. Don't get excited. That's not why I invited you to my home. To get excited.
Here, I got something for you.
Now what if - I'm just thinking out loud - you sold some of your inventory wholesale and I helped with the distribution. 
I don't need it. I already got everything from 110th Street to Yankee Stadium, river to river.
Which is a little mom and pop store compared to what I'm talking about. I could make you bigger than K-Mart. L.A., Chicago, Detroit, Vegas. I'm speaking nationwide. And I'd guarantee you peace of mind. You know what I mean by that.
Frank. You can see I'm a Renaissance man. Unfortunately not all my people are as enlightened. Ask them, What is civil rights, they don't know. They're not as open to change from the way things are done and who's doing it. But I can talk to them so there won't be any misunderstanding. That's what I mean by peace of mind.
You pay what a kilo now, 75, 80? I'd consider 50. And I can get you as much as you want. Tosca slips on his best poker face. Fifty thousand a kilo would be an extraordinary coup for him.
You see, I was right. This is a historic moment. You're going to be bigger than Bumpy himself.
Can't smoke it here, unfortunately. Grace doesn't like it. Take it with you.
Why would you trust these people, the way they look at you?
They look at me like it's Christmas and I'm Santa Claus.
They looked at us like we're the help.
 No.   They're working for me now.
Yes.
I bought you something, too.
What is it?
Come on. You look great.  You want to miss the fight? Come on.
Excuse me -
Mr. Louis -
I'm sorry, but I just have to tell you, sir, you were a hero to me growing up. I still push elevator buttons eight times for the rounds you beat Billy Conn in. For luck.
Hey, Frank, you keep that hat on, I'm gonna miss the fight -
That's is the plate number on the limo. Check with the company, who rented it.
He's a supplier at most. Or just a pimp. We'd've heard of him otherwise.
No, he's bigger than that. His seats were phenomenal; better than Al Tosca's. Joe Louis and Ali shook his fuckin hand.
His name is Frank Lucas ...
Originally from Greensboro, North Carolina. Couple of arrests years ago. Gambling, robbery, unlicensed firearm.  
Five brothers, he's the oldest, lots of cousins, all living here now, spread out around the boroughs and Jersey. The brothers are -
Eugene Lucas in Brooklyn -
Earl Lucas in Newark -
Lester Lucas in Queens -
Turner Lucas, the Bronx -
And Teddy Lucas, in Bergen County.
Except for the chinchilla coat, which no one can explain, Frank's life seems orderly and legitimate.
He gets up early. Five a.m.
Has breakfast at a Midtown place, usually alone.
Then goes to work. Meeting with his accountant, or lawyer, dropping in on one of the several office buildings he owns.
Nights, he usually stays home. When he does go out, it's to a club or dinner - with his new wife - friends, celebrities, sports figures - never O.C. guys.
Sundays he takes his mother to church. Then drives out to change the flowers on Bumpy's grave. Every Sunday, no matter what.
Not your typical day in the life of a dope man, Richie.
Neither was Bumpy Johnson's and he owned Harlem.
You think Frank Lucas took over for Bumpy Johnson? His driver? That's a little far-fetched.
Is it?   Everything he does, he does like Bumpy.
Bumpy never wore a chinchilla coat in his life.
We haven't seen that again. That apparently has been retired to the closet.
She's the most beautiful bride I ever saw, Frank.
I wish Bumpy could've met her.     I wish she could've met him.
What do you got on him you can use in court? Because this isn't it. You try this without informants and powder, no one's going to jail.
Won't get any informants. Not inside. It's like a Sicilian family. Like he's structured his own family the same way to protect himself.
Being with Bumpy long as he was, he would have been around Italians a lot. Enough to learn that much.
But it's not even Frank Lucas I want. I want to know who he's working for: Which Italians are bringing the heroin in.
 Stay in the car
Hello, Frank.
Detective.
You sure you done the right thing? She's a beautiful girl - there's no question - but she's got an attitude on  -
Listen   to me. Before you say another word -   about her - or me - remember that you're   saying it on the most important fuckin   day of my life.
Man walks around in a fifty thousand dollar chinchilla coat and he never even bought me a cup of coffee? Something wrong there.
I don't know what you're talking about.
You pay your bills, Frank?
You want to keep talking, talk to my lawyer, here's his card. You call him, because we're done here -
Do you pay your bills, I asked you.
If you're not getting your share, it's not my fault, go ask the chief of police.
What's my share? You don't even know me. Maybe I'm special.
No, you're all the fuckin same.
 What does that say?  Special - Investigations - Unit. See that word there? "Special." (he takes out a restaurant business card) Ten grand, first of each month, delivered here. 
Detective ... There are some things you don't do. This is one of them. Not on a man's wedding day.
Have a nice honeymoon.
Where is it?
Fuck you, I'm not telling you. She comes past the TV and into the kitchen past a table covered with dope paraphernalia.
Where is my fuckin dope? You and your girlfriends take it again? I'll fuckin kill you.
Richie, yes, fuck me like a cop, not a lawyer -  Oh, God, Richie, no - don't answer it -  No, no, no -
Yeah -
Because it's an attempted homicide, that's Grand Jury. Now, that Grand Jury could come in very favorably. Might turn out to be Attempted Manslaughter. Self Defense even. She had a knife. Depends on how I want to deal with you. You see where this is going.
The fuck is this place?
Let's say you beat it somehow. What do you think Cousin Frank'll think of that? He knows you had to sit here listening to something like this. And then you beat an attempted murder? Is he stupid? He'll assume you talked.
You fucked up, Jimmy. But nobody knows. Frank doesn't know. Yet. Do you want him to read about it in the paper? Or do you want to walk out of here - no bail, no trial - just walk out, now.
Jimmy?   Look at me -
Any time I want to change my mind? I don't like the quality of your work? I can find a witness saw you shoot your girlfriend. It just took me a while. I even know what he'll look like. He'll look just like you.
Stevie. Come over here.  I heard you didn't show up.  
I don't want to play pro ball, I decided.
What're you   talking about? This is your dream since   you were their age -  Maybe I can   set it up again.
It's not what I want. I want to do what you do, Uncle Frank. I want to be you.
We got a problem.
He's been cutting it so much it's down to two, three percent pure. FRANK You tested it. You're sure.
The fuck you looking at?
Frank.   Welcome.
We need to talk.
Great.   Girls, get out.
You talked to Charlie. You want to hear more about my Black Coalition. Let me explain it to you -
That's not why I'm here. (Jackie glances up from the powder. No?) Everybody's happy, Jackie. Charlie, Baz, the cops, the Italians, everybody. Everybody except you.
I'm happy.
Then I don't understand. Why do you have to take something that's perfectly good the way it is, and wreck it?
Brand names mean something, Jackie. Consumers rely on them to know what they're getting. They know the company isn't going to try to fool them with an inferior product. They buy a Ford, they know they're gonna get a Ford.  
What the fuck are you talking about, Frank?
What you're doing, as far as I'm concerned, when you chop my dope down to five percent, is trademark infringement.
With all due respect, Frank, if I buy something, I can do whatever I want with it.
That's not true. That's where you're wrong.
If I buy a car, I can paint it, God damn it.
Jackie, you don't need to. You don't need to make more money than you can with Blue the way it is. No one does. At a certain point it's just greed.
What do you want, Frank?    You want me to call it something else?
I have to insist. You call it Blue Magic, that's misrepresentation.
Fine. I'll call it Red Magic, even though it doesn't sound as good.
That's all I'm saying.   Wrap it in red cellophane and - 
Pink Magic.   Black Magic -
Whack it down to nothing, tie a bow around it and call it Blue Dogshit if you want, just don't let me catch you doing this again.
Catch me? Insist? Infringement? I don't like these words as much as please - thank you - sorry to bother you, Jackie. These are better words to use you come into my place without an invitation.
Give me the keys; take a cab home.
You don't go over there any more.
It's all right, pull over, what are they going to do? Give us a ticket?
Frank?   Some of it's in the trunk.
Hello, Frank.
Detective. How's it going?        You have a nice Thanksgiving?
I did not, as a matter of fact.       Get out of the car.
Where's the Shelby?
The Shelby's gone, Frank.
Want to come over here a minute, Frank?
Now what are we gonna do about this?
We're gonna shut the trunk and say good night, forget you pulled us over.
I got a better idea.
Or would you rather I took it all and threw you and your brother in the fuckin river?
I don't know, would you rather it's your fuckin house blows up next time?
I loved that car.
I know.
Let's go.
Don't you ever put me in a car with dope in it.
Yeah.   Tony.    How's it going?
The fuck is a `micro' wave? 
It's a scientific force like atomic energy. It rearranges the molecules.
Of what.
Of anything. Of popcorn. You don't want to put your head in there.
I can get you one of these. Just like this, brand new. I'll have it delivered.
No, thanks.   I don't want one.
This is nice, where's this?
Aspen.   Just got back.    Had a great time.
I'd like to ski Aspen some day. TONY Know who we met? Burt Reynolds. I'm not kidding. Lot of people from Hollywood go up there now, buying up everything.
This is your place?
Are you kidding? You know what it's worth? Ski-in-ski-out, five bedrooms, sauna, everything. We were guests.  No ... No, that's your place.
Isn't there something we can do - about leaving the big guy alone? You know who I mean.
If I don't report what you just said to me, you know I could be in a lot of trouble. If I do, then it's you.
I'm hoping you won't do that.
I'm not taping it. How do you know? Because we're friends and I'm telling you. This is a real offer.
From who, your uncle?  Why would you do this? Why would you risk our friendship?
Because I care what happens to you.
You shouldn't have done it.
I had to. I had no choice. Neither do you. Leave Frank Lucas alone.
He's not important enough for you to do this.
Yes, he is.
Tell Marie I'm sorry I had to leave. You can tell her why.
INS, FBI, IRS - I can't get anything out of them. Nothing on his travel, his bank accounts, property holdings - nothing.
That's because they all think you're on the take and you think they are.
They don't want this to stop. It employs too many people. Cops, lawyers, judges, probation officers, prison guards. The day dope stops coming into this country, a hundred thousand people lose their jobs. Toback isn't as sure the corruption of the official world is that complete.
Richie.   Excuse me.
Who took it out?  If there's a contract on me, it would be nice to know who took it out. 
We can't say without compromising our source. You understand.
No.    I don't. Not when it's my life.
If you want, we can assign someone to you.
Who?    FBI?   You're going to protect me?
Don't shoot!    For God's sake.
Talk.
Are you Richard Roberts?      I got a subpoena.
Laurie. I'm sorry I couldn't give you the kind of life you wanted. I'm sorry it was never enough. But don't punish me for being honest. Don't take my son away.
What are you saying? That because you were "honest" and didn't take money like every other cop, I left you?
You don't take money for one reason: to buy being dishonest about everything else. And that's worse than taking money nobody gives a shit about - drug money, gambling money nobody's gonna miss.  I'd rather you took it and been honest with me. Or don't take it, I don't care. But don't then go cheat on me. Don't cheat on your kid by never being around. Don't go out and get laid by your snitches and secretaries and strippers. I can tell just by looking, she's one of them.
You think you're going to heaven because your "honest." You're not. You're going to the same hell as the crooked cops you can't stand.
All rise -
Your honor, a lot has been said here today about how unsavory Mr. Roberts' environment is for a child. How dangerous it is. I'm sorry, but this is our world. This is where we live and we tell him, Protect us. We give him that responsibility, and then say, Oh, but we don't trust you to raise a child. We don't think you're fit for that.
I'm not.
You're right. This is no place for him. Around me. Take him. The further away the better. For him.
Frank -
Yeah, I see them.
Here you go, boys.   Merry Christmas.
Paying cops is one thing, I understand that. I been paying them since I was ten - put more of their kids through college than the National Merit Award. This is different, this Special Investigations Unit. They think they are special.
They're fucking crooks.   No code of ethics.
Someone's been following me. Besides cops. I see cars where they shouldn't be. Guys I don't know -
Me, too.
Bumpy hardly ever went out at a certain point. He stayed in - read - watched TV - played chess. I thought he chose to lead a quiet life. He didn't. He couldn't go out without something happening.
We can still go out.
Where? With who? Everyone I know is under surveillance. I can't even be with my family at Christmas anymore.
Why don't you just pay who you have to pay?
I do pay them, I pay them all. Cops, accountants, lawyers, who don't I pay? Everybody. I pay them a fortune, it doesn't matter. It doesn't satisfy them. The more you pay, the more they expect. 
Put on something nice, we're going out.
Keep going.
Around back?
Fuck that. I'm not going to sneak into my own club. Just drive.
I'm going to wait in the car.
Go ahead, Frank.       I'll wait for it.
You can carry it all?      We ordered a lot.
Don't forget the yellow sauce. 244 OMIT                                                            244 OMIT
Doc's got the keys.   Let's go back.
The lights give me a headache, you go.
I'm not leaving you on the street.
Get the keys, Frank, it's cold.
248 OMIT                                                    248 OMIT
Gimme some of that yellow sauce.
You hit?
What the fuck was that?
Was it Jackie?  I'll fuckin kill him whether it was or not, you tell me to.  What do you want us to do, Frank? We can't just sit here and -
Who didn't like Charlie?   Everybody liked Charlie ...
Who shot at us?  It doesn't matter. We're leaving.
Go home.   Go see your kids.
What are you doing?     Where've you been?
We're leaving from here.      Money's in the car.
What money?
Everything from your mother's house.
In your car?
Yes.
Where's the car?
Out front. FRANK With ten million dollars in it?
I didn't count it.
Are you crazy? Take it back to Teaneck. What are you doing driving around without security? Doc'll take you back.
We're not going there, we're going to the airport. We're leaving the country.
To go where?    No, we're not.
Frank, Charlie's dead. They tried to kill us. What else has to happen - ?
Shhh.   Come on, now.   Shhh.
Where are we going to go? Spain? China? Which fuckin place is it going to be?
We can go anywhere we want.     We can live anywhere.
We can run and hide is what you're saying.
This is where I'm from. This is where my family is. My business. My mother. This is my place. This is my country. This is America.
Said he'll only talk to you.
From what I hear, it was the Corsicans. The French Connection, Fernando Rey, the exporters Frank has put out of business. Now, I can take care of him in New York, but I don't want to have to worry every time he drives across the bridge to Jersey someone's gonna take another shot at him.
We need to start working together. We need to step up our efforts. Next time their aim could be better. We need to keep this cash cow alive.
Jesus. What the fuck you doing here? You actually going to arrest Frank Lucas? What's the matter with you?
I'm crazy. Can't you tell that? I'm crazy enough to shoot someone and make it look like an accident next time he comes over the bridge without my permission. Get the fuck out of New Jersey.
"I can guarantee you peace of mind," you said. Do I look like a man with peace of mind to you? They shot at my wife. Who does that?  
I don't know that it was any of them, Frank. Neither do you.
Then maybe I'll kill them all just to make a fuckin point.
You want to know who it was? I can tell you. It was a junkie. Or a rival. Or some dumb ass kid trying to make a name for himself. Or someone you forgot to pay off. Or slighted without realizing it. Or someone you put out of business by being too successful.  Success has a lot of enemies. Your success is who took a shot at you. How you gonna kill it? By being unsuccessful? You can be successful and have enemies, or unsuccessful and have friends. It's the choice we make.
Hello?
I'm watching the news.     Where the hell's everyone going?
Home.    The war's over.
Just like that? We're going to leave the fuckin country to the communists?
We been here since 1961, Frank.
I haven't!
Opium plants are hearty enough to outlive any war. They'll still be here long after the troops are gone. But what are you going to do for transportation when the last US plane goes home?
I'll figure something out.      You'll see me again. The General seems fond of Frank, and not only because of all the money on the table.
It's not in my best interest to say this, Frank ... but quitting while you're ahead is not the same as quitting.
That's what my wife thinks.
But you don't think she's right.
Give them half!
Cut half of them loose!      The mules!
Newark.     Short Term Parking Lot 3.
When you need it? Today?
Tomorrow will be fine.
Short Term Lot 3. This the Mustang were talking about ... Camero? ... What's the plate number?  Yeah, I got it ... I got it, Frank ... (sighs; reads from the napkin:) KA 760.
There's no Short Term Lot 3 at Newark. They're lettered, A, B, C, D -
I'm just telling you what I heard -
Then you heard wrong!
Maybe he means the time?   3 o'clock?
And this isn't a Jersey plate. Or New York. Not with just two letters. It's three and three, not two and three -
It's what he said -
Then what the fuck is it -
The fuck should I know -
You're fuckin lying -
It's what he said.   I'm sure.
KA 760 -
Yes!
None of you ever been in the service? It's an Air Force tail number.
Captain, I'm Richard Roberts, Director of the Essex County Narcotics Bureau.
Your husband's illustrious career is over. The Feds are going to come in and take it all. Everything. But not before I get my gratuity. Where's the money?
There was some on that dresser, but it's gone now so I guess you  -
The money! The getaway money Frank and every other gangster keeps in his house! 
If you leave now, there's a chance Frank might not kill you -
I'm sorry.
Open it.
The warrant permits me to search the plane and its cargo.
But you don't have my permission.
I don't need it.
That's enough.
That was a military transport plane. If there was heroin on board then someone in the military would have to be involved. Which means that even as it fights a war that's claimed 50,000 Americans lives, the military is smuggling narcotics.
That's how these events are being interpreted by General Easton in that call to me. That someone employed by the this office believes the United States Army is in the drug trafficking business - and is trying to prove it by desecrating the remains of young men who've given their lives in the defence of democracy.
There are drugs on that plane -
Shut the fuck up.
Is it any wonder then, because of your actions, the entire federal narcotics program is now in jeopardy of being dismantled as completely and enthusiastic- ally as that fucking transport plane? That's what you've accomplished Mr. Roberts. Single-handedly.
I had good information the target of my investigation was bringing dope in on that plane.
And that target is?
Frank Lucas.
Who?  Who's Frank Lucas?  Who's he work for? Which family?
He's not Italian. He's black.
Is that supposed to be some kind of joke? You're this close to the end of your career in law enforcement, you're making jokes?
I believe Frank Lucas is above the mafia in the dope business. I believe he buys direct from the source in Southeast Asia, cuts out all the middlemen, and uses US military planes and personnel to bring pure No. 4 heroin into United States.
Does he. And how many arrests has he made in his so-called investigation?
I was promised when I took this job, it was about real arrests.
Does that mean `none?'
I have cases against most of Frank's organization. Not him -
 Frank's organization -
That's right.
No fucking nigger has accomplished what the American Mafia hasn't in a hundred years!
Yeah, you'd know, sitting here, having never been on the  -
Lou, get this fucking kike out of here -
He was out of line, Richie.
It's over.   You're shut down.
Ten million dollars means nothing to me. 
This - is his death warrant.
Frankie -
Sit down.
If you'd have been a preacher, your brothers would be preachers. If you'd been a soldier, they'd be soldiers. Do you know that?  They all came here because of you. You called and they came running. They look up to you. They expect you to always know what's best.  But even they know you don't shoot cops. Even I know that. Ana knows it. You seem to be the only one who doesn't.
Is that where I'm going?
I never asked you where all this came from because I didn't want to hear you lie to me. Don't lie to me. Don't do that, too.
Do you really want to make things so bad for your family they'll leave you? Because they will. She will -  I know I will.
Where is it?
Somewhere in the South tower.
You know that it's there.     You're sure.
Positive.
Lou. We're ready to go in there knowing there's a good chance we won't all come out. That's what we're willing to do. All I'm asking you to do get me a warrant.
We don't have a lot of time to fuck around -
I'll call in the warrant. And some backup. Don't go in before either gets there.
How long we gonna wait for it?
It'll be here.
I got to talk to Teddy.
What the fuck is that? I got business with Teddy and it's none of your fuckin business except to knock on the fuckin door and get him.
What kind of trees are these?
You think you got Frank Lucas.      You got nothing.
Mr. Roberts -
Thank you, your Honor.   Ladies and gentlemen -
Here he is, let me talk to him alone. 
I just heard something. I said it couldn't be true. You didn't really turn in a million dollars you found in the trunk of a car, did you?
Want me to tell you what happened to it? It ended up in cops' pockets.
Maybe.
Maybe? No. It did. All you did was give it to them for nothing in return. Not nothing: You got their contempt.
Why'd you do that? What're you trying to prove, you're better than them? You're not better than them. You are them.
I don't have the time or interest to listen to  -
You did it because it was right. That's all. Why's that hard to say? The question is would you do it again? That was a long time ago. It'd be very easy to find out. Tell me you want to find out, tell me the address, and a car will be there, the trunk loaded.
No, thanks.
Who the fuck are you to say no to that? You think that impresses me?
Let me ask you something. You think by putting me in jail, you're going to stop even one junkie from dying? Because you won't. If it isn't me, it'll be someone else. With me or without me, nothing's going to change.
Then that's the way it is.
You have any sort of case? Or just that idiot drives for my brother. Is he your case? Because if it's just him and the powder, it's not enough.
Then you got nothing to worry about.
My brothers won't talk to you. My cousins. None of my family. No one but that mother fucking driver. RICHIE I got more than that. I got a line of people wanting to testify that stretches out the door and around the block.
Bullshit.
Is it? Tony the Bug.     Benny Two-Socks. Carmine Camanetti.
Who the fuck are they? I don't know them and they don't know me.
They sell dope for the Mazzano crime family. Which you all but put out of business.
This is who you're going to put on the stand? Guys who don't know me? Who got nothing to do with me?
They have everything to do with you. And the only thing they hate more than you is what you represent.
I don't represent nothing.
You don't? Black businessman like you? Of course you do. But once you're gone, things can return to normal.
Look at me. You looking? Can you tell by looking it would mean nothing to me if tomorrow you turned up dead?
Get in line. That one stretches around the block, too.
What can we do?
You know what you have to do.
I could give you cops, but that's not who you want, is it. You want organized crime names.
I'll take them, too.   I want them all.
You'll take them, too? You'd go after cops? Are you serious? You'd do that? Lock up your own kind?
They're not. Not the ones in business with you. They're not my kind any more than the Italians are yours.
What can you promise me?
I can promise you if you lie to me about one name, you'll never get out of prison. Lie about one dollar in one offshore account, you'll never get out. You can live rich in jail the rest of your life, or poor outside it, that's what I can promise.
You know, I don't care if the feds take all my buildings, my stocks, my off-shore accounts. They can take it all, I don't care - use it to build battleships, paint bridges, whatever the fuck they want. Fight another war. But those other motherfuckers - the cops - put my money in their pockets. Millions.
I believe it.
I want to know everyone   you've met for the last twenty years.    Everyone you sold to. Every cop you ever    paid off. Every one who ever stole from   you. Every one you remember.
Oh, I remember them all.   That's not the problem.
What is?
The jail's aren't big enough.
You go up here. Your "special."
Frederick Douglass Boulevard? What was wrong with just plain 8th Avenue?
I used to sit here with Ana in my old car. She hated it. Now I don't even have a car. Or her.
Just do what?
What?
The fuck is that? Just do what?
Sneakers.   Expensive ones.
Who the fuck would buy those?
Your brothers know you're out? FRANK I haven't talked to them in years. It's better that way. For them. I don't know where they are. Went back to Greensboro when they got out, I guess.
What am I going to do now, be a janitor? What do I know how to do? How am I going to live?
I told you I wouldn't let you starve.
You told me but you can barely take care of yourself.  
I won't.   I'm just saying I could.
Thanks for the clothes.
You're welcome.
Uh-oh. Look out. Here come the gangsters.
What.
Nothing.
Every idiot gets to be young once.
Let's get out of here.
