All right.  All right.  I'm coming.  Let it go!
 A boy.  I don't need anything, boy.  Can't you read?  I thought all American boys could read.  Don't be a nuisance, now.  Good day.
Don't forget your paper, Mr. Dussander.
Give me my newspaper.
Sure thing, Mr. Dussander.
My name is Denker.  See?  Denker.  Perhaps you cannot read after all. What a pity.  Good day.
Bergen-Belsen, January '43 to June '43. Auschwitz, June '43 to June '44.  Then you went to Patin.
After the war, you escaped to Buenos Aires. From 1950 to '52 you were in Cuba, and then... From 1952 to '58... I don't know.  No one does.  But in 1965, you popped up in West Berlin, where they almost got you.
Listen, boy.  I don't know what is the matter with you.  But I don't have time for this game.  Now, get out of here before I call the police.
Call them if you want.
Fine.
It's okay by me Herr Kommandant.  I'm sure the police would love to meet the "Blood- fiend of Patin."
You get away from this house, God damn you! I'll beat you all the way home.
After 1965, no one saw you again... Until I did.  Three weeks ago on the downtown bus. If you want to call the cops, go right ahead. I'II wait on the steps.
You'll do no such thing.
I won't?  Listen, old man, if I want to start screaming right here, I will.  If I want to ride down to the police station and bring the cops back myself, then I will.  I will do what ever I want.  Do you understand?  But if you like, I could come in for a minute.  We could talk.
I'd be out of my mind to let an insane boy like you into my home.
Is that what you want, to come into my home? So be it.  There is no arguing with crazy people.
My wife.  She died in 1955 of lung disease. At that time I was working at the Menschler Motor Works in Essen.  I was heartbroken.
Stop that!
Tell me, wasn't it Ilse Koch who made the lampshades out of human skin?
Now I don't know what you're talking about.
Sure you do, Mr. Dussander.
Denker.  Denker.  Denker.  You don't listen, boy.  The television has fried your brain.
Your hands are shaking.
Yes, they're shaking.  I'm old.  We all shake.  You are most tiresome, and rude.  Now if you have a point I wish you'd come to it.
We're in no rush.  If I thought you had plans, I'd say cancel them, but since I know you don't...
You know nothing of my business --
What business?  You sit in that ugly chair and watch soap operas all day.  Except on Friday afternoons when you walk down to the movie theater.  And twice a week you take the bus downtown to do your shopping.  You always use the express lane because you never have more than ten items.
You have been following me?
Of course, I followed you.  You think I normally go around to peoples' houses and accuse them of being Nazi fugitives?
Perhaps for me you made an exception.
No, for you I had to be sure.  For Kurt Dussander I had to be absolutely certain. ...Now, I am, and that's why I'm here.
Oh, yes, I see now.  As I am this ex-Nazi fellow, as you say, then this must be the part where I offer you my hidden stash of gold, taken from the mouths of old Jewish men, of course, which I keep buried in the basement.  Isn't that right, boy?  Well, I'm afraid you're wasting your time. I have no money.  If I did I might even give you some just to be done with this nonsense.
I don't need money.  You don't have any anyway.  At least, I don't think so.  You probably had to spend it all to sneak in the country.  A good American passport is expensive on the black market, that I know.
Do you?  Good for you.
Yes, I do.  I know it all, Dussander.  You're my One Great Interest.
Your what?
My One Great Interest.  Well, not you personally, but, ...well, it's something I learned back in eighth grade.  Our teacher, Miss Harmon, she said we'd have to find our One Great Interest in life.  You know, the thing that would really grab us.  Once we did that, everything would fall into place.  Like hers, she said, wasn't teaching, but collecting nineteenth-century postcards.  I guess there's no money in that, so she has to be a teacher.  Anyway, she told us to start thinking about it.  So I did, but nothing happened.  Until the following summer, in Ronny Pegler's garage.  That's where I found it.
One of these has three girls doing it at the same time.
I got it!  Check this out. ...Todd, look.
Hang on a sec.
It was all there... pictures of stuff I'd never seen, stuff they never put in the books anymore, especially the ones they give us to read.  And here were stacks of them.
It... grabbed me.  It was just like Miss Harmon said.  I couldn't believe it.  But there it was, the camps, the uniforms, the ...the way they saluted each other.  But what am I telling you for?  You know more about this stuff than anybody.
Yes, what are you telling me for?
 Then last year I wrote my big term paper on Dachau.  I got an A+.  It was the only A+ she gave.  I mean I always do real well.  A's on everything.  That's why I'm accelerated.
Accelerated?
You know, accelerated.  I skipped two grades, second and ninth.  I didn't need them. That's why I'm already a junior.
I see...
Some kids resent me for it.  That's not important.  Anyway, my paper really floored my history teacher.  I guess because I got through all those books without throwing up. But I learned something.  I learned that when you talk about the camps now, you have to remember to sound really disgusted.  I mean, you can't just say what happened like the magazines did and leave it at that.  If I tried that the teacher would have freaked and called my parents in.
Todd, your mom's on the phone.  She says you have to come home for dinner.  ...Todd?
What?
 Your mom's on the phone.
Nowadays you have to... soften it.
Why do I care about this?
Because, I don't want it softened.
I am sure you trouble your parents to no end.
Actually, I'm pretty low maintenance.  That's what my dad says.
You told your parents about me, then?
You think I'm crazy?
I think you're crackers, but go on.  I'm riveted.
What are you doing?
And then it happened... I was on my way to the library.  It was raining...
You climbed on the bus and started this slow walk down the aisle.  Just like you were examining a new batch of inmates.  I don't think anybody gave you a second glance but me, but somehow ...people seemed to move out of your way.  And under your arm you carried a rolled up umbrella.  But what really did it, what really set me off was the coat.  You were wearing this long black rain coat.  My mind suddenly flipped back to a picture of you taken at Patin.  You in your S.S. greatcoat with a riding crop under your arm.
It was incredible.
All of this... because of a rain coat?
Well, it wasn't that easy.  I mean, I had to really check up on it.  And every picture of you in those books is forty years old, at least.  I went back to the library to find the picture.  And then I matched it with the photos I took.
You took photographs of me?
Yeah, I got this little camera.  Fits right in the palm of my hand.
 Clever boy.
But even then I couldn't be sure.  I needed real proof.  So I went to the mall and bought a fingerprint kit from the hobby shop and a book that tells you what you're supposed to look for and then dusted your mailbox while you were at the movies.  Pretty smart, huh?
You... put dust on my mailbox?  For fingerprints?  You took photographs of me? What else did you do?... I don't believe any of this.
I already had a copy of your fingerprints. They're on your want sheet from the Israeli government.  It's on database at UC Irvine. Can you believe that?
Bourbon.
Would you care for a drink, boy?
Sure, you got a Coke?
No Kok.
Milk?
Milk.
It takes eight good matches, they're called compares, actually, for a fingerprint to get accepted in court.
Is that right?
Yeah, there were two sets of prints.  The first I figured were the mailman's.  Once I knew what I was looking for, yours were easy to spot.
You should be a detective.
Maybe I will... Mom thinks I'd be good at it.
I found fourteen compares.
You have some.
Good Gott.
You see?  It's milk, boy.  From Dairylee Farms.  On the carton is a picture of a smiling cow.
 ...And two missing children.  Boy what you have done, I have to explain this to you because clearly you don't understand, what you have done is a violation.
A violation?
Yes.
Kind of like those experiments with the decompression chamber.  Now, that was a violation, Dussander.
That fucking name.  Enough of that.  I demand it.
You what?
I demand --
You demand nothing from me.  Ever.  Get it?
Boy, I will tell you this once more, and for the last time.  My name is Arthur Denker.  It has never been anything else.  It has never even been Americanized.  If you must know, and apparently you must, I was named by my father who greatly admired the stories of Arthur Conan Doyle.  I did serve in the reserves, I admit, and in the late thirties, when I was first married, I supported Hitler. I supported him most, I suppose, because for the first time in years there was work and there was tobacco. ...Would you like a cigarette?
No.  My dad used to smoke.  Mom made him quit.  Now he's addicted to Nicorette... that's nicotine gum.
Nicotine gum.
Anyway, Hitler lost his mind at the end, directing phantom armies at the whim of his astrologer.  He even gave his dog, Blondi, a death capsule.  On May 2nd, 1945, my regiment surrendered to the Americans.  I remember that a private named Gonzales gave me a chocolate bar.  I wept.
I was interned at Essen where I was treated very well.  We listened to the Nuremberg trials on the radio and when Goering committed suicide, I bought half a bottle of schnaps and got drunk.  When I was released, I put wheels on cars at the Essen Motor Works until I retired in 1963.  In 1967 I emigrated here, to California, and became a U.S. Citizen.  I am as American as you are.  I vote.  No Buenos Aires, no Berlin, no koo-ba. And that's it, my whole story.  I hope you're satisfied. But if not, it's, as you say, tough shit for you.  Now, you go.  Enough of this.
That was pretty good.  So much to remember. But I guess it helps when you have forty years to practice your story.
Oh, to hell with this and to hell with you. I'm calling the police.  Your father is going to beat your behind when he picks you up at the police station.
No.  My parents don't believe in violence.
Well, they should start.  I'm calling.
Hang up the phone.
This is unforgivable.  Do you know the things you're accusing me of?
Do it.
If you don't want money, what do you want?
I want to hear about it.
Hear about what?
The camps. Everything.  The experiments. The examinations.  All the stuff the writers are scared to put in their books because people will think they're sick.  That's what I want, ...everything.
Everything?
Exactly.  And you're going to tell it to me.
You're a monster.
According to history you're the monster.
How could you ask me to remember such things? I can barely remember to take my heart medicine.
You were there.  You did those things.  No one can tell it better than you can.  And you will tell it, starting today.  Right now.  If you don't, I'll tell everyone who you are.  I swear it.
Why should I?  Why should I do any of it?
Because you hung up the phone.  That's why. ...And just so you know, just so there is no misunderstanding whatsoever.  Everything I have on you, the compares, the want sheet, all the photographs, are all in an envelope under my mattress.  I'm going to put it there every time I come to see you.  If anything happens to me, if I should suddenly disappear, some one will find it.  Believe me --
That's a foolish thing to do.  What if your mother goes in your room anyway?  What if she hires a maid?
You better hope she doesn't.  We're wasting time.  Let's get started.  I have to be home for dinner. Today I want to hear about the ovens.  How you baked them after they were dead... and before.
 A boy... a boy...
But before we start, put your teeth in.  You look better with your teeth.
But in 1902, Panama didn't exist.  The country we know as Panama was part of Columbia.
Now the nations of the west knew they needed a canal through Central America.  They were tired of waiting for their ships to sail around Cape Horn.  This was the new century, the age of modernization.  And the U.S. was at the forefront.  Teddy Roosevelt was in the White House, looking for any chance to assert the might of America.  When Columbia balked at the offer made by the U.S. and England, Roosevelt sent his naval war ships to sit off the coast of Panama, just sit there, where they could be seen from the coast.
Finally Columbia gave up the territory for about a tenth of its original price.  And as Roosevelt would say later, "The U.S. stole the Panama canal fair and square."
 Take it easy, Jesus.  It's just me, flinch- man.
 Don't do that.
I got news for you.  You're gonna like it.
Walk with me to French.
Someone likes you.  Someone good.
Who?
Well, I heard my sister talking on the phone with Lisa Herman, and... well --
You going to tell me who it is?
 You didn't hear it from me.
Fine.
Becky Trask.
Was that so hard?
So ask her out and the weekend after next you can double with me and Vanessa.
What about this weekend?
I'm already planning on being grounded.
Grounded?  What for?
Where the hell you been?  Report cards were sent out today.  I know that never affects you...
Shit.  Don't forget what I told you.
I've never seen anyone drink bourbon with McDonald's before.  ...So, How did the stuff get to Patin?
In railroad cars marked "Medical Supplies." It came in long crates that looked like coffins.
That's fitting.  Was it always Zyklon-B?
No, from time to time we would be sent something else.  Experimental gases.  The High Command was always interested in improving efficiency.  Once they sent us a gas code-named "Pegasus."  A nerve gas. Thank God they never sent it again.  It...
It what?
It didn't work very well.  It was quite boring.
Bullshit.  You're lying.  What did it do?
It killed them.  What do you think it did, made them walk on water?  It killed them.
Tell me.  Tell me.
I won't.  I refuse.  Where are my cigarettes?
What did it do?
It made them dance.
Dance?
Like Zyklon-B, it came in through the shower heads.  After a few seconds the prisoners began to leap about.  Some were screaming. Most of them were laughing.  They began to vomit and to... to defecate helplessly.
You mean they... they... shit themselves? ...Woah.
They began to twitch all over and make high, strange sounds in their throats.  At last they collapsed and just lay there on the concrete, twitching and yodeling, with blood streaming from their noses.  But I lied to you, boy.  It didn't kill them.  Either because it wasn't strong enough or because we couldn't bring ourselves to wait that long. I suppose it was that.  I sent five men in with rifles to end their agonies.  These were five men I trusted.  It would have looked bad on my record to have wasted so many cartridges at a time when the Fuehrer had declared every cartridge a national resource. I was always given high marks for efficiency.
Yeah, I bet.
How do you eat this crap everyday?
Why didn't you just do the job yourself? You carried a gun, didn't you?
 I was the commandant of the camp.
So you never killed anybody?
 The entire world was at war, boy.  People died.
That's not a real answer.  I'm asking about you.
Boy, I was a soldier in a position of power. You don't get to be there by selling ...girl scout's cookies.
I know what the SS was, Dussander.  Who are you talking to?  It was a bunch of dumb, rich kids who bought their way into the service so they wouldn't have to go fight on the front.
That's enough for today, boy.  I beg you. I'm tired.
Yeah, fine.  That was good story though.  You always tell them good, once I get you started.
You're tight.  Don't hold your breath so long.
Forget it.  I can't concentrate.
I know your upset.  So am I.  So is your mother.
These honors classes... they aren't as easy as I thought they'd be.  I totally admit it, I didn't prepare enough.  I'm sorry.
Well, fine, but now is not the time to slack off.  You got a chance to finish at the top of your class--
Nobody wants that more than I do, Dad.
Well you haven't been hitting the books very much.
I know...
And seeing as you're not playing soccer this year it's not like you don't have enough time--
That still bothers you, doesn't it?
 No, son. If you weren't enjoying it, then you shouldn't play.
I think it bothers you and you're not telling me.
That was lousy.  Here.  I want to see your grades come up, buddy. That's all that bothers me.  And if you say you need more time to study, then that's what we'll do.  The first thing is to cut out all the time you spend reading to Mr. Denker. It's a nice thing to do, but it's not helping our school work a bit.
Hey, Todd.  You still with me?
Yeah... no.  Dad, don't do that.  Please. Don't punish Mr. Denker for something that's my fault.  I mean, he'd be lost without me--
He'll be fine without you. He was fine before and he'll be fine after. There's nothing wrong with wanting to help people, but you gotta make sure you got yourself squared away first. That's what matters.
Dad, am I like other kids?
Not by a long shot.
Then trust me on this.  Don't lose faith in me because I blew a couple of exams.  I will get my grades back up.  In fact I've already started.  Three days a week I go over to Freddy Tremain's for extra help. He's a wiz at trig. But please, Dad, whatever you do, don't punish a helpless old man for something that's my fault.
Did you practice that in front of a mirror or something?
Hey, he's not...?
 ...No.
Just checking.  All right... We'll give your way a shot. If you think you can do it, if you really do, and your serious, then... okay. You really like the old guy, don't you?
I'm making a difference in somebody's life. It's that simple.
Okay, okay.  Don't ever force it.  Watch.
Don't get too drunk.  We still have a little while.
You don't have to do that, you know.
Screw you.  I'm doing this for me.  This place is freezing.
Yes, it must be fifty degrees outside.  I'm sure to you it seems positively frigid.
Why didn't you pay your gas bill?
It slipped my mind.  I will attend to it tomorrow.
Slipped your mind.  I noticed it didn't slip your mind to stock up on a new case of bourbon.
Leave me alone.
All right, so finish your story, because I'm still not clear.  You cook up this stew, and you bring the prisoner in, and you let them smell it, and suddenly they tell you everything?
Oh, don't misunderstand me.  Certainly with a pistol pressed to their head, a prisoner would tell us everything we wanted to know, sometimes more.  But mine was a much more ... elegant method.  Remember, it had been months since they had smelled real potatoes simmering over an open flame, and boy, when that delicious odor hit their noses their mouths would drop and out would pour an account of every minor infraction their friends had committed, I mean it was magnificent...
And you let them eat the soup?
Oh, we never promised them the soup in exchange for information.  We never mentioned it at all.
Wow, that's really good, Dussander.  I mean that's...  that's thinking.
...But, as the war pressed on, the time for such civilized measures became a luxury.  I remember by April of '45, we had barely enough food to feed ourselves.  The sound of the Russian mortars grew louder everyday, but still, the train cars from France and Poland kept coming.  This was a time of desperation. The ovens burned day and night and still I knew we would not beat the arrival of the Russian forces.  Many of my men, the cowardly ones, deserted during the night.  But the men that remained, the same ones I had called upon so many times, ...continued the work. At first we thought a massive fire in the main building would serve our purpose.  We could just crowd them in and pull a gas torch up to each of the windows.  But with so many of them, we couldn't be sure the bodies would burn properly.  We needed something ...certain.  Then a young, bright soldier, I shall never forget his enthusiastic smile, pointed to a pair of bulldozers near the Western gate which had been used during construction.  How perfectly simple it was. The bulldozers carved a narrow trench, four meters deep, down the center of the camp. For two hours they dug until I realized we may not have enough gas to finish the job. So the inmates were given shovels and told they were building a shelter from the incoming artillery.  When they were done, I immediately called for a practice drill and three thousand naked bodies began to march into the trench.  It took less than twenty minutes to get them in place.  Quickly the bulldozers moved down the sides of the pit sending the piles of earth into the massive grave.  Those who tried to free themselves were shot, of course, but very few cartridges were wasted that day.  The machines were too fast.  Back and forth they went... packing the dirt.  One by one the tractors ran out of gas and my men had to scurry along with shovels.  But by sunset... it was done.  I gave the order to evacuate.  In the distance the plumes of Russian mortar fire rose like an approaching thundercloud.  But I knew that no matter what happened, ...no one would ever forget what we did here.
Hello?  Yes? ...No, no trouble at all. ...Yes. ...Yes, he's here. ...I see.  ...Really? ...No, no plans. ...Ah, lovely. ...My dear, I'd be delighted. ...Certainly. ...Of course I will. ...Yes, until then. ...All right. ...Good-bye.
It seems I am to be your guest for Thanksgiving dinner.
Is everything all right?
Yeah, I'm fine.
You're nervous.  I think it's sweet.
No... No, I'm cool.
Do you want me to do something else?
Here kitty-kitty.  Here kitty-kitty.
Come, puss-puss.  That's right.  I'll wait.
That's right, puss-puss.  You can smell it now, can't you?
That's right, kitty-kitty.  That's right.
Gotcha.
I'm sorry.
It's all right.  Maybe you'll be more in the mood later.
I don't know.  That's never happened before.
Can you blow that the other way?
Maybe you don't like me.
No, I do.
 Maybe you don't like girls.
That was a lousy thing for me to say.  I'm sorry, honey.
Let's just go home.
Oww, you mother-fucker.
Come here!
 Test run eight-four.  Electricity, sexual stimulus, metabolism.  Based on the Thyssen theories of negative reinforcement.
Subject is a young Jewish girl, approximately sixteen years of age, no scars, no identifying marks, no known disabilities --
You, on lane twelve.  You need to have your headgear on at all times.  And no rapid firing.
Todd loved that dog.  A lot more than Dick did.
We all loved that dog.
I remember when you had to put it down, Todd cried for two weeks.  Just about broke my heart.
Excuse, me, Mrs. Bowden.  Put it down?  I've been here over twenty years but that's a new one.
Means put it to sleep, Victor.
Well, it's how they kill it, Arthur. They do it all the time at the pound, ...sick dogs, dogs nobody wants.
It's very humane.
I see.
Some more pie?
As my departed wife used to say, 'One must never overdo the sublime.'
It was delicious, Monica.
Tell me, Arthur, if you don't mind me asking. What did you do during the war?
Now don't get too personal, Victor.
I was a student at the University until my reserve unit was called in 1943.  But we were not a combat unit, thank God. Mechanical engineers.  Help me find my cigarettes, Todd.  Would you?  In those days, not even the call of higher learning could exempt an able body from military service.
Todd Bowden!
 My dear, I do apologize.  My hands are too arthritic to strike a match, I'm afraid. Your son has been good enough to help an old man with his filthy habits.
Well...as long as you don't inhale.
Cigarettes are gross, Mom.
Well, Victor, you were doing your part like we all were, I suppose.  Of course, if you were in the Pacific Fleet I'd have to shoot you.
 My dad is very proud of the fact that the Bowden men have hit every major conflict since the Civil War.
That's right.  Dickie served two tours in Vietnam.  Earned a bronze star and a purple heart.
It's one family tradition I'd like to put an end to.  Todd and I blow a few caps down at the range every week.  That's all the combat he needs.
 What's that supposed to mean?
Forget it.
 Perhaps your son would excel in combat.
Todd could excel at anything.  Right, honey?
 Oh, let's don't even talk about this. I can't stand to think of you boys fighting another war.
The Purple Heart.  You were injured?
He was knocked unconscious and woke up in a hospital.
Mom, let me get that for you.
You shouldn't be so hard on your father.
Why don't you mind your own business.
 Boy, It's not so easy to raise children. Your father does the best he can, I'm sure. Having his own father there is bound to cause some anxiety on his part--
Oh, give me a frigging break, will you?  Look who's talking to me, for Christ's sake.  And what was that crap about the dog?  If you were any more charming I was going to puke.
Heavens, boy, wasn't that precisely the point?  I used the evening to our advantage.
Our advantage?  Our advantage?
Certainly now they will offer no objections if you continue to come over and read to me.
You sure take a lot for granted.  Do you think there's anybody forcing me to come over to your scuzzy house and watch you slop up booze all day?  Do you?
Lower your voice.  People will hear.
So what?
No, nobody forces you to come.  In fact, you are welcome to stay away.  Believe me, boy, I have no scruples about drinking alone.  None at all.
You know, if they found out what you are, they'd spit on you.
I am sure they would have nothing but revulsion for me.  But what would they say about you, boy, when I told them you had known about me for nine months... and said nothing?
Come and see me if you please, and stay home if you don't.  Good night, boy.
Go ahead, open it.  Wait, I better pull down the shades, first.
What for?
Just to be safe.
 To hell with this.  You open it.
Oh, relax, old man.  Sit down and open it.
You wrapped it yourself, I see.
Merry Christmas!
Pete's Quality Costume Clothiers - Serving You Since 1976.
Go ahead, try it on.
Are you out of your mind, boy?  What makes you think I would put something like that on?
I thought you'd like it --
Like it?  My God, you're a bigger fool than I thought.  Maybe I'll put it on and do a little shopping downtown.  Is that what you thought?  You stupid, boy.
Don't call me stupid.
You... You know, you are correct.  I am the stupid one.  For months I have suffered your indignities.  I have exposed my past to you while watching you stuff your face with those wretched hamburgers.  I have stocked my refrigerator with Coca Cola and ding dongs. All for you, I have done these things and I'm tired of it.  But because I value my life and my freedom, what's left of it anyway, I do them.  But I'll die before I put this thing on, you fucking piss-ant.
That's enough.  You don't get to talk to me like that.
I should smash you.
Do it.  Please.  Indignities?  What you've suffered with me is nothing compared to what the Israelis would do to you.  Remember what happened to Eichmann?  You forget that, I think.  And, you know, that's my fault.  I have let you forget.  You have gotten comfortable with this situation.  Well, don't you for one minute ever forget who holds the cards here. Don't you ever forget that envelope under my mattress.  I tried to do this the nice way, I tried to do something to please you, but you don't want it.  So fine, we'll do it the hard way.  You will put this on because I want to see you in it.  Now strip.
I hope you go to hell --
The insignia is all wrong.  The boots should be leather, not imitation.
That suit cost me over eighty bucks... with the boots.
And this material... what?  Polyester?
Quiet.  Straighten that hat.
Straighten that hat, soldier!
Good Gott.
Actung!
Now, march... Do it!
That's it.  March.
About face.
About face.
Okay, that's enough.
I said that's enough!
Boy... be careful. You play with fire.
 Come out. ...Come out, now!
 Line up in front of the train. Now!
So what are you going to do?
Fuck if I know.
You're throwing it flat.  Let it roll off your fingers more.
 I don't need a lesson.
Your dad, man.  I don't know.  I mean, I'm a fuck up.  My dad is used to this crap from me.
What?
What?
You said something?
No.
You're talking to yourself, Bowden.  It's not the first time I've noticed it.  What is going on with you?
Nothing, Joey.  I fucked up.  I'II fix it. I'II fix it.
 All right, man.  Whatever you say.  Look, I got to get to practice.
If you need to talk, you can call me.  You know that.  I'II see you around.
 You're talking to yourself, Bowden.  You're talking to yourself, Bowden.
I'II fix it.  I'II fix it.
I'll fix it.  I'll fix it.  I'll fix it.
What the fuck happened in here?
Ah, boy...  I burned my TV dinner, I'm afraid.
Something's come up.  Sit down.
I see.  What seems to be the trouble?
Quarterly Progress Report.  You seem to have fallen on the rocks, my boy. One B, three C's and a D.  Hardly the work of a "National Merit Scholar," or whatever you call yourself.
This isn't a joke, Dussander.  I can't blame this on teachers or honors classes anymore.
Looks like you have a problem then.
I have a problem?  You still don't get it. I'm out of excuses.  Do you know what's going to happen when my dad sees that?  He's going to hit the fucking roof.  He'll get it all out of me.  The truth, you...everything.
Boy, it's not my fault your grades have fallen.
Don't be so sure.
Please, you don't spend that much time here. I hardly think--
 I can't study anymore.
 I try.  But it's...  different now.  I sit in front of my books and start thinking about... about corpses, and electrified fences and people getting strangled with piano wire. All that crap you tell me.  The next thing I know it's after midnight.  I sit in class like a zombie, ...useless.  But that's not the half of it.  Check out the letter.
 'Dear Mr. and Mrs. Bowden, this note is to suggest that we have a group conference concerning Todd's first semester grades.  In light of his previous good work in this school, the sudden deterioration in his grades suggest a specific problem which should be addressed before his academic advancement is jeopardized permanently.  Such a problem can often be solved by a frank and open discussion.  I am ready to work out a time for us to meet.  In a case such as this, earlier is usually better.  Sincerely yours, Edward French.'  Who is this Edward French, the headmaster?
French?  Fuck no.  He's a stupid guidance counselor.
Guidance counselor?  What is that?
He guides and he counsels.  You read the fucking note.  Do you realize I could have to go to summer school?  Me, in there with all those fuck-ups.  I do not want to go to summer school.
Or to the reformatory.
What did you say?
Boy, ...you have a far greater problem than your school grades.  Before you speak to me about what they will "get out of you", remember the facts. ...Seventy thousand people died at Patin.  Have you forgotten that?  To the world at large I am the most despicable of criminals, a monster.  Do you think I would stand aside and let you turn me in so easily?  Without a fight?  Is your American self-confidence so bloated that you have never once realized you are an accessory to my crimes.  You have criminal knowledge of an illegal alien, and have not reported it. Don't you see that?  And if I'm caught, I will tell the world all about you.  When the reporters put their microphones in my face it will be your name I'll repeat over and over again.  Todd Bowden, yes that's his name. How long?... oh, for months, almost a year. He wanted to know everything...  That's how he put it, yes - everything.
They'd never believe you.
Perhaps, perhaps not.  It's a gamble.  How would you explain all those books you were reading to me?  My eyes are not what they were but I can still read fine print.  I can prove it.
So what? I'd say you tricked me.
Why would I do that?
For friendship, because you're lonely and had no one in your life.  No jury would take your word over mine.  A Nazi?  Forget it.  Just get it out of your head.  You can't threaten me and you can't scare me.  What you can do is find me a pencil.
A pencil, what for?
That will take care of the report card, I think.  About that fucking letter, I don't know.
Fuck...  come on, a pencil.  A sharp one. With an eraser.
Will this do?
Tell me, does this French know your parents in a social way?
Him?  Fuck, no.  They wouldn't mix with a geek like him.
How about professionally?  Has he ever called them before?
No.  I've never needed it.  Why?
I have an idea.  It will require you to make one phone call.
Mr. Bowden?
Mr. French, a pleasure.
My, those are some... colorful shoes.
To you, sir, I'm sure they seem quite out of the ordinary.  But when it is your job to get confused sixteen year-olds to open up to you, you take whatever steps you need.  Please have a seat.
And the shoes work?
They seem to help, believe it or not.  Well, I thank you for coming down, Mr.  Bowden, but I'll be frank with you...
Yes, please do.
The fact that you're here and not Todd's parents tells me a great deal.
I'm sure.  My son and his wife asked me to come in and discuss this sorry business with you, Mr.  French.  Todd is a good boy, believe me.  This trouble with his grades is only temporary.
It's all right. (pulls an ashtray from desk drawer) There's no smoking on school grounds, but if it will make you more comfortable, I'll never tell.
A terrible habit, but thank you.  I suppose I should begin by informing you that my son and my daughter-in-law are having troubles at home.  Rather bad troubles, I should think.
I appreciate your candor.
 The mother drinks.
Oh.
Yes.  The boy has told me that he has come home on two occasions and has found her sprawled out on the kitchen table.  He knows how my son feels about her drinking and so on these occasions he has put dinner in the oven himself and forced enough black coffee down his mother's throat so that she will at least be awake when Richard gets home.
That's bad.  Has Mrs. Bowden thought about getting professional help for her problem?
The boy has tried to persuade her, but she is far too ashamed, I think.  If she was given a little time...  You understand?
Of course.  Your son... Todd's father...
He is not without blame, believe me.  The hours he works.  The meals he has missed. They take a toll on a family.  I was raised to believe that a man's family came before his work or anything else.  I tried to teach my son that... but --
There's only so much we can teach our kids, Mr. Bowden.  ...What about Monica's mother or father?  Couldn't they talk to her?
Her mother, Sabrina, lives in a nursing home in Florida.  I'm afraid after her husband died she lost her will to live.
Probably not the best person for Monica to speak to.
Indeed.
Mr. Bowden, I don't have to remind you, I'm sure, of Todd's stellar academic record. National Merit Scholar finalist, Academic All-Stars.
Yes.  I keep his certificates on the wall of my store.  I run a small bookstore in San Remo.
 Yes, I see that.  Anyway, Todd is, and I hate to phrase it this way, but he's one of the ones worth fighting for.  He's a special kid, we both know that.  But If Todd's grades don't improve drastically and quickly... he'll be opening a real nasty can of worms. Summer school would just be the beginning. His whole college acceptance schedule would be thrown way off course.  The good schools won't know what to make of him.  I'm sure he'd hate that and so would you.
Of course.
So let's get to the bottom line, shall we? What I'm proposing is some family counselling at the Counselling Center downtown. Everything is in confidence, of course.  A man in charge down there, Harry Shumacher, is a good friend of mine.  I think Todd and his parents should go see him together.  It might be difficult for Todd to go to his parents with this; I think you should do it.  Maybe we can get everybody on track by the end of the next quarter.  It will be tough, but not impossible.
I'm not sure that would be the best thing for the boy.  The parents might resent him if I took them that proposal right now.  Things are very delicate.  To swing the scale too far in the wrong direction might cause more harm than good.  The boy has promised to work harder in his studies.  He is most concerned by the drop in his grades, more alarmed than you might expect.  He has his mind set on attending Stanford or Berkeley next fall and does not wish to see his plans altered.
Yes, well --
Also, the parents would resent me.  Monica already thinks I meddle too much in her affairs.
I have a great deal of experience in these matters, Mr. Bowden.  And please understand that my interest in your son's marital problems begins and ends with the effect they are having on Todd.  And right now I think they are having quite an effect.  I really think counselling is in order here.
Allow me to make a counter proposal.  You have, I believe, a system for warning parents of poor grades?
Yes, Interpretation of Progress cards.  IOP cards.  The kids call them flunk card.  They only get them when their grades in a class fall below the seventy percent.  That means a "D" or an "F".  Why?
And they are sent out when?
Mid-quarter.  That's about three weeks into the new marking period.
Allowing for Christmas break, the next time they are sent out will be in late January, correct?
Yes, that's right.
Good.  Then what I suggest is this...
You what?
I told him you were getting back on track by your own accord.  I gave him my word.  If you get even one flunk card--
Are you out of your fucking mind?  I'm going to get three or four flunk cards.  I failed an economics test today, so there's another one.
Boy, it was the best I could do without arousing suspicion.
I could have done better myself --
Well you didn't, did you?  This is the way it is and now you are upset because the only way you can make things right is to work.
You're insane.  I'm upset because it can't be done.
It can.  And it will.  You will work.
I don't take orders from you.  Maybe you've forgotten --
 Listen, boy.  Before today it was possible, just barely possible, that you could have denounced me and come out clean yourself. The way your nerves have been lately I don't think so, but never mind that.  It was - at least technically possible.  But now things have changed.  Today I impersonated your grandfather, one Victor Bowden.  And it was you who arranged the meeting.  What would people make of that?  If things come out now... perhaps you were right, your age and a good attorney might keep you out of jail, but you would be humiliated, boy, publicly.  You would be infamous.  Your parents too.  Do you know what such a scandal would do to them? To you?  Think about that.
You fucker.
It's a done deal, boy.  If you don't like it, you can discuss it at family counselling.
God!  I wish... I wish --
Never mind your wishes.  Your wishes make me sick.  All I want to hear is that you understand the situation.
Look, you gotta believe me.  There is no way in hell that I can pull myself out of a half year slide in a couple of weeks.  I wish I could, but we're just going to have to think of something else.
Boy, the time for discussion is over.  This is the way it is.  You are going to work. And I am going to be right here with you.
What are you talking about?
You are going to spend the rest of this quarter, all of your vacation and the first three weeks of January studying.  During your free period you will study.  During lunch, you will study.  And after school and on weekends you will come here and do the same.
Not here, at home.
No.  At home you will dawdle, you will talk on the telephone, watch TV.  Here, I can make sure that nothing distracts you from your studies.
Their light is still on.  I'll get out on your side.  Don't say anything.
Shhh.
Don't move.
Fuck.
Hey, kid, you having some trouble?
No.  I got it... thanks.
That case maybe you could loan me a dollar. Help out a Vietnam vet? How 'bout it?
I... I don't know... I don't think so.
C'mon, you got something for me.  I know you do.
Well, maybe... I have to check.
See, I got to get up to L.A.  Got a job waiting for me up there.
I thought I did have a couple of quarters...
You know,  For a dollar I'll give you a blow job.  Take you right up there where it's still dry.  You never had so good, kid.  You'll come your brains out.
Our illustrious administration, in its quest to make my job as difficult as possible, has decided that home room teachers are now responsible for handing IOP cards for all your classes.  So for those of you getting flunk cards, you'll find them attached to last week's exam.
Well, this calls for a celebration, no?
Look, I guess I owe a lot of this to you. I'm not proud of it, but it's true.
 Your gratitude humbles me.  How about some Ritz crackers and Velveeta?
Sure, what the hell.
I would have expected you to be doing back flips down the hallway after such good news. You are so quiet.
Today, I think, I give you the day off from studying.  How's that?  How about one of my stories instead?  I still have a few good ones saved up.
I don't care.  Whatever you want.
Let's see.  I could tell you about the special soap we made.  Or there is always the story of how I escaped from Berlin after I was foolish enough to go back.  That was a close one, I promise you.
Anything, really.
No, none of these I think.  You don't seem to be in the mood.
I think today I will tell you the story of an old man who was afraid.  He was afraid of a certain young boy who was, in a queer way, his friend.  The boy proved to be a very good student, but perhaps not in the way his mother or his teachers had envisioned.  At first the old man disliked the boy intensely, but then he grew to... to enjoy the boy's company.  Of course, there was still a great deal of distrust between them.
Each knew something that other wanted to keep secret.  But over time, the old man began to feel that things were changing.  He felt his hold on the boy slipping away from him.
So.  One sleepless night the old man got out of bed and wrote down the story of his involvement with the boy.  Everything he could remember, from the first day forward.
When he finished his hand was stinging from arthritis but he felt good for the first time in weeks.  He felt safe.
He climbed back into bed and slept until it was time for General Hospital.
On the following day the old man put on his best suit and went down to one of the local banks and rented a safety deposit box.  The bank officer explained to the old man that he would have a key and the bank would have a key.  To open the box both keys would be needed.  No one but the old man could use the old man's key without a signed, notarized letter of permission from the old man himself.  With one exception.
That exception is made in the event of the box-holder's death.
Then what?
Then the box is opened in the presence of a bank official and a representative of the Internal Revenue Service.  The contents of the box are inventoried.  In this case they will find only a twelve-page document.  Non- taxable... but highly interesting.
You can't... you can't do that.
My boy, it is already done.
But... Christ!  Look at you.  You could go at any time.
Then there is nothing for me.
But there is.  As the years go by, as I get closer to the grave, your hold on me will become worth less and less.  A man five, ten years older than I worries more about his ailing heart than being extradited to Israel. And there will come a day - if I live long enough - when I decide what you know no longer matters.  Then, and only then, I will destroy my document.
But... but so many things can happen to you in between.  Accidents.  Sickness.  You could slip in the shower, for Christ's sake...
Que sera, sera...  Whatever will be, will be... The future's not ours to see... Que sera, sera...
My dear boy, I see you thinking about it, even now.  It is in your eyes.  Killing me. It would take only a flick of a knife.  Or maybe push me down the steps, make it look like an accident?  I am old.  You are strong. You are angry.  Good assets for killing.  But there is something missing...
To have some one in your control.  To have them know that they are alive because you have not decided to the contrary.  Do you have that power?  Ask yourself.  It is no easy question.  I think you know that.
You know this means we're through.  You won't be seeing me around here anymore.
No, I suppose I won't.
I'm never coming here again.
And so it comes to an end.  Here.
What are you doing?
A drink.  To our lives together, the beginning... and the end.
I think you should fuck yourself.
My boy, don't you see that we are fucking each other?
 I notice the kid don't come around no more.
What?
Little blond-hair boy. ...What's the matter, you ain't his friend no more?
You mistake me for somebody else. ...Pardon me, my bus is coming.
Damn... Cuban high heels.  Nice ones, too.
I ain't seen a pair like that since I was in Havana. (talking louder because of the bus) That's the only place you can get'em.  Can't get'em exported... Government don't let you.
Go in, Todd.  They're waiting for you.
Have a seat, Todd.
I see from your record and from what Mr. French tells me that after a minor slip up last semester you're right back on course. Straight A's for the quarter so far.  And I hear your little slip didn't bother the folks up at Stanford too much either.
A good break for you, Todd.
Looks like that little talk with your...  grandfather... really helped.  Well, we don't want to keep you too long.  You tell him.
Well, it seems Sally Chong didn't do to well in A.P. biology.
She failed it.
I'm afraid so.  She refused to take part in the fetal pig dissection.  The teacher begged her to drop the class, but Sally thought she could pass anyway.
Stubborn girl... What we're telling you, son, is that because Sally Chang -
Chong.
Because Sally Chong wouldn't hack up a baby pig, you snuck by her in the rankings.  So if you can keep your grades up for two more months -- any reason that shouldn't happen?
No.
Then you'll make valedictorian, Todd. Congratulations.
Congratulations, Todd.
Todd, you really should be proud of yourself. To tell you the truth, I'm amazed you pulled it off.
Thanks, I guess.
I was glad to hear you made varsity baseball. I spoke to the coach.  He says your coming along real well.
Thanks.
It's turning out to be a good year for you.
Yeah.
Todd, wait.
Todd, you've got a lot of good things going on right now.  You should be enjoying yourself.
I am.
How are things at home?
Look, things with my parents were bad for a while.  But they're doing a lot better. Thanks for your concern, really.  I should get back to class.
 Okay, Todd.  I know this isn't the place to talk about this.  But my door is always open...
I know.  Thanks.
And it's going to stay open.
Hey there.
Hey.
I... ah, I heard about Stanford.  I heard a couple of weeks ago actually. ...Congrats.
Thanks.
I got into school to.  Long Beach.  It's no Stanford, but...
No, no... that's good, Joe.
Well, ...I just wanted to say hi.  Here let me get that.
What do you have in there?
You busy now?
Uhh...
Come with me.  Hop on.
Hop on?  I have a car now, Todd.
You can't drive where we're going.
This is so cool.
Point it over here.  That's the middle school.  You can see right into our old class room.
Oh yeah... But I still don't see what you need the rest of it for.  Doesn't your Dad notice?
He hasn't yet.
Yet?... Jesus, Todd.
And over here, that's your dad's office.  And there's the old drive-in.
Here.  Take it.
It's such a rush, you know?... To be up here. Don't you feel it?  So high above them they never know we're here.  It's like an ant farm.  We're the gods on Mt. Olympus, Joey. They can't see us, they can't hear us, but every so often we can make them feel us. Just so they never forget.  Look...
There goes a future track star.  There goes a judge.  A mom and her two kids.  A policeman. That one's a school teacher, that one's a drug dealer... You see, Joey, it doesn't matter.  It doesn't matter how smart you are ...or how many grades you skip.  There's always someone who can take it all away.  The right person snaps their fingers... and it's done.
Todd, I'm gonna go.  I'm gonna... walk home.
Todd...
I can do that.  I can help you carry those.
You don't gotta be afraid.  I can carry those.
I don't need any help. ...Excuse me.
Hey, I ain't a bad guy.  You don't gotta worry.  I'm a veteran.  I just want--
 What?  What do you want?  Why do you bother me?
 You got a nice face.
No I don't.
Look, we're practically neighbors.  I stay right over there most nights.  I see you walking down the street.  I come up to help.  It's called being neighborly.
Piss off.
Ain't no reason to be rude.  You see, I know something about you. ...I know your a nice guy.  I'm nice too, ...just like the kid.
I see.
And I know you got some bourbon in these bags.  I ain't ashamed to say I could use a drink about now.  But I don't need no charity. If you want to invite me in, like a friend, we could have a nice drink.
A drink.
That's what I'm saying.
You smell like a toilet.
Maybe you let me use your shower.  But first a drink.  After that I'll do anything you say.
Yeah, this is nice.  Real nice.
Let me take those.  Right this way.
I guess your parents don't need a graduation announcement.
No.
Grandma and Grandpa aren't coming?
 I thought you told him.
Christ, I forgot.  Todd, my aunt Patty, Dad's sister, died on Wednesday.  Mom and Dad have to drive up to Fresno to settle her estate. We can't ask Dad to drive six hours each way for graduation.
If we ask them, they'll do it.
That's why.  You understand, don't you, Todd?
Of course, Dad.  It's all right.  Tell Grandpa I'll spend the week with him and Grandma when they get back.
What about Mr. Denker?  I almost forgot about him.
No, He won't want to come.
Ah-ah.
I believe we need another bottle, my friend.
Well if you're offering, I'm accepting.
No trouble at all.  Now where is my bottle opener?  Ah, here it is.
Why don't you drink mine?
You don't mind do you?
No. I don't mind. ...Maybe in the morning - everything goes okay - you could let me have ten dollars.
Perhaps.
Maybe even twenty.
Perhaps.  We shall see.
You can relax, you know, I've done this before.
It's all right.  So have I.
What a mess.
Oh my God.
Ein... Zwei... Drei...
Monica... how long did we rent those jet skis in Hawaii?
About two hours.  Why?
This receipt says we had two jet skis for twenty-three hours a piece.  The bill is fifteen hundred dollars.  Didn't you look at the receipt before you signed it?
Way to go, Mom.
That bill was written in Japanese.  I told you that.
Numbers are numbers, Monica, in any language.
That guy didn't speak a word of English.  I told you not to rent from him.
I'll get it.
That's not the point.  You should always read the bill before you sign.  I've told you that a hundred times.  Fifteen hundred dollars.
Maybe it's in yen.
Hey, maybe you're right.
Todd, it's Mr.  Denker.  He sounds excited about something.  You better speak to him.
 Mr. Denker?
Come over right away, boy.  I'm having a heart attack, a bad one, I think.
Gee, that sounds exciting, Mr. Denker, but I was studying for my trig final --
I understand that you cannot talk, but you can listen.  I cannot call 911...  at least not yet.  There is quite a mess here.  I need help... and that means you need help.
Well if you put it that way --
Tell your parents I've had a letter, an important letter, and I need you to read it to me.
Yeah, sure.  I'll be right there.
Now we see what you are made of, boy.
Bye.  I've got to run over to Mr. Denker's for a minute.
Is everything all right?
Oh, he just got a letter from a nephew in Hamburg or Dusseldorf or one of those places.
I thought his family was killed in the war.
So did he.  That's why he sounded excited.  I shouldn't be too long.  I'll take your car, Mom?
I don't know, you have a final tomorrow.
I know, I was almost finished studying anyway.
Don't be gone too long, Todd.
See you in a bit.
What the fuck...?
Where are you bleeding?... wake up.
Wake up, goddamnit!
I thought you said you had a fucking heart attack.
It's not my blood, for Christ's sake.
What did you say?
It was self-defense, boy.  Go downstairs. You'll see what needs to be done.
Fuck you.  I'm not going down there.  What happened?  What did you do?
What the hell is this?
Jesus Fucking Christ.
Open the fucking door!  Right now.  Right now!
You give me no choice, boy.
What are you doing?  Open the door.
If you won't help me, then I'll make you help me.  If you don't, we are finished.
Fuck you, old man.  This is your problem.  I didn't do this.  Open the door!
Enough.  Enough.  Enough!  If you don't stop screaming like a fucking school girl I'm going to...
Now listen to me, boy, very carefully.  If you don't help me, I'm going to die here. And if I die, there is no Stanford for you. There is no scholarship.  There is jail.  My document...
Fuck your document.  I got nothing to do with this.  Don't make it sound like I do.  I came here, I saw this shit, and now I'm getting the fuck out of here.  That's what I'm gonna tell the police.
Why not tell them the truth?  Tell them I locked you in the cellar.  Tell them I wouldn't let you out until you buried the body.
I'm not listening to this.
You must be at the window, yes?  As you can see I had it barred a few years ago.  A bad element started to move into the neighborhood, you know how it is.
Fuck.
We are wasting time now, boy.  Come back to the door.  You are not going to find anything down there to help you.
 Oh really?
Get out of the way.
Stop it!  Stop it!
What are you doing, boy?  It's not going to work, whatever it is.
Fuck this.
I mean it get the fuck away from me.
Hello?
Where's the fucking pinesol?
Rags.  I need rags.
Cellar.  Under the stairs.
I ought to run this through your chest, you know that?
It couldn't hurt more than a heart attack.
Christ, my parents are going to freak.
Stay calm, boy.  You are doing fine.
What are you thinking about?
Fuck off.
Your pants are okay.  The shoes... no.
Put this on.
Is that my undershirt?
Hurry up, for God's sake.
Don't you die on me, you old bastard.  Not now.
I think we're okay.
Me too.
Call an ambulance.
The key.
What are you talking about?
The safety deposit box.  I want the key...
For God's sake, boy...
I want the key and I want to know where the bank is.
Hillcrest Savings on Domingo Avenue.  The key is behind the clock on the mantle piece.
Sign this.
What for?
Sign it.
No!  At the bottom... neatly.
911 emergency.  Do you need an ambulance?
Yes.  It's my friend, Mr. Du--
Denker.  He had a heart attack.
Is he conscious?
Yeah, he's awake.  I'm really scared.  The address is 9 --
We have the address here.  The ambulance is on the way.  It should take about ten minutes.  I'll stay on the line with you --
No.  I have to call my parents.  Just send the ambulance --
It smells too clean in here.
 Cigarette?
Mommy, it's me.  Let me talk to Dad.
What is it?
Just let me talk to him.
Hold on --
Todd, what's wrong.
Mr. Denker had a heart attack.
Jesus.  Is he conscious?
Yeah, he's awake.
Thank God.  Todd, call an ambulance.
I did.  They're on the way.
All right, son.  Don't touch him.  I'll be there in five minutes.
Okay.
Fuck!
What?  What is it?
The letter.  Where is the goddamn letter?  I told my parents I came over to read you a letter from Germany.
A letter.  Yes, we'll say it's from Willi Frankel --
We need a letter.  I told them it was your nephew, I think.
My bedroom.  Look in the dresser.  Second, no third, drawer... from the top.  There is a small wooden box.  You will have to break it open.  I lost the key.  There are letters, very old ones.  From a friend.  All in German.  None of them are signed or dated.  A page or two will be fine.
Are you crazy?  I don't read German, you numb fuck.
Why would Willi write me in English?  If you were to read me the letter in German, I would understand even though you would not.  Your pronunciation would be terrible, but I could manage --
All right.  All right.
Goddamn you, come out.
Dad.
He started laughing at something in the letter.  I don't know what it was, it's in German.
Well, we'll take care of him now.  We're going to take him to St. Luke's.  It's a good thing you called when you did.  You saved his life.
You did real good, son. (looking around the room, as if searching for something) You did real good...
C'mon.  Let's make sure he gets checked in all right.
He needs to rest now.  You can come back tomorrow after ten.
I'll be back in the morning with the girls.
I can't wait to see them.
 The doctor will be in to see you in a few minutes.
Thank you.
My nephew, David.
His parents died when he was very young.  He is like a son to me.  I have no children of my own.
I see.
David is very protective of me.  Of course, I don't mind.  I enjoy his company.  A few years ago he started working with me at the university.  I teach chemistry.  My name is Ben, by the way.
Arthur.
A pleasure, Arthur.  What do you do?
I'm retired.
These tubes in my arm.  No one said they would itch like this.
You will find, in time, you don't notice.
Well, we'll see.  Looks like I'll be here for a while.  I didn't want to alarm my nephew just yet, but this break in my leg...  well, we'll see what the doctor says.
Yes, of course.  But for now, you must forgive me, my medication has made me drowsy. Do not be offended if I fall asleep.
Don't be offended if I keep talking anyway. It beats wondering if I'm ever going to walk again.  I tell you, my friend, the ways of God are not meant to be understood.
He's really sick. ...Please.
I sure hope your granddaddy feels better. You can bring that in here.
Son of a bitch.
You shouldn't have.
They're from my mother.
Here.
Everything else I burned.
I had to protect myself from you, boy.
I suspect that we shall never see each other again.
No, I don't think we will.
Well, I better go.
Wait, boy... There is something I want to ask you.
What?
...Was it like you thought?
I should go.
Perhaps... perhaps I could persuade you to wait here just until I fall asleep.  This medicine makes me quite woozy... please.
Excuse me, young man.
You're a fine boy to visit your grandfather like that.
Thanks.  But he's just a friend.
Is that right?  Well, you are a good friend to him.  Tell me, is he bad off?  He doesn't talk much.
The doctors say he'll be out soon.
That is good news, indeed.  Tell me, from the way he speaks I'd guess he's been naturalized, like me.  Is he?
He's from Germany... From Essen.  Do you know that town?
I was only in Germany once.  I'm Polish. Originally, I mean, I'm from Radom.  I wonder if he was in the war.
I really couldn't say.
It doesn't matter, I suppose.  It was a long time ago, the war.  Soon in this country we may have a president born after the war was over.  How about that?
I'm sure you're right.
Your friend is lucky to have you.  A great man once said, 'No man is an island entire of itself.'
John Donne.  Take care, sir.
Good-bye.
Good-bye.
Where's the nurse?
My name is Darren.  I'll be taking care of you from now on.  I'll tell the doctor you've woken up.
Did you need something?
What is going on here?  Where is Ben?
Mr. Krauss has been moved.  I'm going to give you something.  It will help you sleep.
I don't want it.  Who is that man?
Your surgery was a success.  Just try to relax.
 Wake up.  Wake up, old man.
Are you speaking to me?
 No one else is here.
Mr. Krauss is recuperating elsewhere.  Are you awake now, Dussander?
Yes, of course, but you seem to have me confused with someone else.  My name is Arthur Denker.  Perhaps you want a different room --
My name is Weiskopf.  You are Kurt Dussander.
I know no one by that name.  Shall I ring for the nurse?
The man in the next bed was Benjamin Krauss. He was imprisoned for ten months at Patin. You were responsible for the death of his wife and two daughters.  His identification of you was quite specific.  I'm sure his reward from my government will help offset the burden of his broken leg.
My name is Arthur Denker.  I am an American--
Please don't bother.  Your papers will not stand up to serious examination and you know it.
We have all we need here, Isaac.
Who are you men?  What are your names?
My name is Richler, FBI.  This is Detective Getty from the Orange County Sheriff's Department.
And I think you know who I work for.  When you get your strength back, you will be moved.  Until then, this entire ward will be under surveillance.  You can expect to be in Tel Aviv by the end of the summer.
The road ahead reveals itself, uh, God, no. The road ahead... grrrr, The fucking road ahead.
Todd?
Huh?
What are you doing there in the dark?
Oh, ...working.
Mr. French.
Hello, Todd.  It's your big day, isn't it?
These must be your parents.  Hi, Ed French.  It's good to finally meet you.
Dick Bowden, nice to meet you.  This is my wife, Monica.
Are you one of Todd's teachers?
No.  I'm his guidance counsellor.
Monica, I thought that was you.
 That's our cue.
 It was nice meeting you.
You too.  Good luck, son.
I'll talk to you and your wife after the ceremony.
Thy sacred emblems to partake - Thy consecrated bread to take And thine immortal wine!
Thank you, Miss Little for that superb invocation.
And now it gives me great pleasure to introduce a young man who's academic achievement at this institution stands as testament to the power of hard work and determination.  Todd had a tough time a few months ago, so by God, he buckled down, hit the books, and pulled himself through it.
Ladies and gentlemen, students and faculty, here to deliver the student remembrance for the class of 1985, this year's valedictorian, Todd Bowden.
We all have dreams that we carry with us. Perhaps it is a dream of prosperity, or happiness.  But now, so early in our lives, it seems that all we should ask for is to be at peace with the world, because only then can we be at peace with ourselves.
We learn from our education that we are the master's of our own destinies.  We learn what it is that separates us from the others, why we are special.
What about this?
Yes.  All photographs.
You boys better come down to the cellar. You're not going to believe this.
Each of us have unique talents and interests unlike those of anyone else.  The challenge now, as we stand at the doorway to adulthood, is to channel our abilities into our goals.
We forge our own paths.  Our education is but a stepping stone to the world.
Our.. Our true destinies await us.  There we become the...
There we become the men and women that will make a difference.  But we must take away from this place a sense of purpose for ourselves.  We now begin to see the road ahead.  It is a road from which we cannot veer.
Andrew Woodman... Donald Young... Karmisha Youngblood... David Zedek... Kyle Zuckerman. The graduating class of 1985.
Now we invite all the friends and parents to join the students and faculty in the main courtyard for refreshments.
Honey.
Mom, I don't feel so good.
What's wrong?
I don't know, I feel like I'm going to pass out.  Can we go home?
You looked real good up there, Todd.
Don't you want to see your buddies?
I want to go, Dad.  Right now.
Todd, my name is Dan Richler.  I'm a special agent with the FBI.  This is my associate, Dr. Weiskopf.
Hello.
What kind of doctor are you?
I'm a school teacher.
Dr. Weiskopf is a professor at the Judaic Institute in Munich.  He is assisting the Israeli government in certain matters.  He is here today, only as an observer.
Thanks for calling us up, Mr. Bowden.  You saved us the trouble of tracking through the 911 records.
Actually, it was Todd's idea to call.  He thought... we thought there might be some way we could help your investigation.
Todd, if you wouldn't mind, I'd like to hear about your involvement with Dussander... but you knew him as Arthur Denker, right?
Yeah.  I never knew of that other name till I saw it in the paper.
How did you know him?
I met him at the movies.  Last summer.  ...He asked me where to pick up the number seven bus.  He said his eyes weren't too good. ...Will you excuse me for a minute?
You okay, honey?
I just gotta use the bathroom.  I'll be right back.
He's not feeling well.
Can I get you some coffee?
Todd, let me tell you what we're really interested in here.  You told the admitting nurse that Denker had a heart attack while you were reading him a letter.
That's right.  I was.  That's what I was doing there.  It was in German but he insisted I try to read it anyway.  Once or twice he got pissy about the pronunciation but I asked him what did he want from me.  I don't speak German.  Mr. Denker... Dussander... got really excited at one point. He yelled out, "Yes, that's what you would do all right." but I didn't know what he was talking about.  Then he grabbed his chest.
And that's when you called the ambulance, right?
That's right.
Well, this is the part we can't figure out. The letter itself, Todd... do you remember what happened to it?
I guess it was still on the table.  I couldn't swear to it, but --
Wait, I saw a letter.  It was in German.  I didn't think anything of it at the time. But, yeah, it was on Airmail stationery.
Then it should still be there.  This is our problem.
It isn't?
No.
Maybe somebody broke in.
Why would somebody break into his house simply to steal a letter? ...Unless... there was someone... someone right here in Santo Donato who would want to protect him for some reason.  Maybe a close friend, or even another fugitive.  I know it sounds like a bunch of Robert Ludlum stuff, but when Dussander was taken to the hospital, we think our Mr. X scooted over to the house and swiped the letter.
That doesn't make sense.
Why not, Todd?
Well, if Denk... if he had an old Nazi buddy in town, why didn't he come over himself and read the letter to him?  If you could have heard the way he corrected me at every word--
A good point.  Except maybe this other fellow is in a wheelchair, or blind.
Guys that are blind don't normally go scooting out to steal letters.
 True.  Did Dussander have any friends that you knew of?
No, not really.
How about phone calls?
No, I heard his phone ring maybe five or six times in all the time I knew him.  It was never anything out of the ordinary. Salesmen.  Wrong numbers.
Did you ever hear him speak German on those occasions?
No.  He hardly ever spoke German.  He always said he would teach me someday, but he never got around to it.
Did he ever talk about his past?
Not really.  Little bits, I guess.
Well, don't you remember what he told us at Thanksgiving?
He said he was in college--
 Monica.  They don't care what we know, they care what Todd knows.
Look, I'm sure this whole thing has come as a terrible shock.  I think we've done enough for the day.
Thank you, Todd.  Mr. and Mrs. Bowden.
Wait a minute... Agent Richler, before you go--  Todd's not a suspect in this, is he?  I mean he's just talking to you, right?
That's right.
Because Todd always thought he was helping that old man.  We didn't know any of this before today.
Mr. Bowden, you and Todd have nothing to worry about.  I assure you.  Your son has been a great service to us.  Thank you, Todd. For now that's all we need.  Our next step is to turn that house upside down.  We're bringing in some special teams to look through everything.  We may come up with something.  We'll be in touch if we need you.
Oh, Todd, by the way.... (casually, pulls a photo out of a folder he is carrying) Have you ever seen this man before?
No.
Okay, thanks.
You'll be back, won't you boys?  Won't you, Special agent Jackoff.  You and the sheeny professor. ...I know, let's show him an old army picture, that'll screw him up. ...Fuck you.  Fuck-You.
Everything all right, son?
Yeah... fine.
You sure?
I'm fine, Dad.
Your mother and I feel terrible... like we...
It's not your fault.
You know we love you, don't you?
I know, Dad.
Look, ahh, your mother and I are going to go down and talk to our lawyer.  I don't want you to worry about a thing.  It's just a precaution.  I don't trust these cops.  We're not going to be gone long.
Don't worry about me, I'll be fine.
Your old man is on top of things, all right? I am going to take care of this.
I know, Dad.
This afternoon, if you're up for it, we'll go do something.  How 'bout it?
Sure.
We're okay.  We're okay.  We're o-kay.
You got to be fucking kidding me.
Hello, Todd.
Mr. French, what brings you to the wild side of town?
Todd... I found something troubling in the morning news.  Are your parents home?
No.
I know the man in this picture is the man who came to see me.
It's sort of a bad time right now.  Why don't you go home?
I will.  But first I need a couple of things explained to me.
Todd, why don't you tell me what happened?
You know, Mr. French, sometimes one thing just leads to another and before you know it... things get out of control.
I'm afraid that's not much of an answer, Todd.  When do you expect your parents home?
I don't know, Ed.  You want to come in and wait?  I'll put on a pot of tea.  We'll talk about old times.
I think you might need some help, Todd. That's why I'm here.
You know?  You're right.  I do need help.  I really do.
Let me help you, Todd.  I want to.  You're too smart to do anything crazy.
Can I ask you something, Ed?  You don't mind if I call you Ed, now that I'm out of your fucking school, do you?
What?
You know all this crap you see on TV about forensics... hairs and fibers, that stuff? How much of it do think is true and how much is just bullshit?
Oh, how would you know?  You're a fucking guidance counsellor.
Todd, this is silly.  Why don't we go inside?
Here's a little factoid for ya.  I'll bet you didn't know this one.  Hairs fall out of your head all the time.  But it's even worse when you're nervous.  And you know what?  I've been real fucking high-strung lately.
Listen, Todd... Please.
That's how it all happened, you know.  One thing lead to another and before I knew it...
...you showed up in my driveway, wearing those same fucking sneakers.
Whoa.  To--
