What a beauty.  Hand me the transmitter.
 He's coming around fine.
Be right back.  I left my camcorder in the car.
Anne Marie!  Stop!
 Don't move.
 Goddamn trappers!
 Takes nerve, laying traplines on restricted land.
What are you doing?
He still might be around.  I saw fresh tire tracks coming in.
Man and a jeep, about a mile and a half down.
Where the fuck did you drop Corbett off?
He's over there.
Stay here.
Be careful -- there're two of them.
If I unzip my parka, stick this out the window.
 No shooting.  Let's see who's so interested in us.
 Ain't worth it, Ben...
You got two counts against you -- trapping out of season and poaching on restricted land.
Can't be much of a crime, if all they got minding the area is a cocky kid.
I got your plate number, asshole. Maybe you feel like spending a few months in jail.
Ben?  Sure you don't want me to drop the fucker?
You leave and don't come back, that's the end of it.
 Great idea -- pointing a lousy dart gun at some nut with a high-powered hunting rifle.
Bastards took off, though, didn't they?
All this fuckin' land, and we're locked out.  Makes me puke.
Jawing about it won't change it.
Three hundred seventy-five million acres in this state.  I'm real tired of runnin' into people.
Then don't look to your left.
Leave it here.
Let's keep going.  We're only an hour from Devil's Cauldron.
 Relax.  I just want to ask them how the hunting is.
Looks like you've had some luck. Where's your guide?
We're on our own, if it's any of your damn business.
 You did real good.
 No swinging shit.  They're over their goddamned limit.
 My friend is right.  Supposed to have a licensed guide when you're on this land, too.
Hey, we paid our fuckin' permit fees.
I were you, I'd drive right on outta here again.  Now.
 This was my roaming land, 'til the government took it over. Only Innuit can hunt here now, and tourists, like you.
 According to tribal law, hunters passing through the land of another tribe can only take game to survive.  They can eat the meat, but have to surrender the hides.
Want the meat?
I say shoot 'em, bury 'em with their shiny new car.
 If you're gonna take something, take it and let's go.
 Put him in your truck.  Smell of blood will attract the bears.  Let's go.
It was self defense.  Leave it at that.
You think those fucks will tell it that way?
 We'll get a head start before they go crying to the law.
 You can pack out of here -- two, three days' hike along this river at most.  Weather should hold this early in the season.
Think I'm pretty?  You better forget how we look, 'cause next time they won't keep me from killing you.  This land ain't quite civilized, you know...
At least he scalped the dead one.
for State Legislature VOTE FOR THE PEOPLE'S FRIEND!
Hullo, Sam.  Slow day?
 Ben...boys.  Yeah, real slow, and I'd like to keep it that way.
 Just passing through.
 Needs patching.
Twenty-five dollar.
 Sure have learned to worship the white man's god.
I hope I can count on you gentlemen to vote for The People's Friend this November.
Share some of that oil company money in your pocket and you can.
 One flier comes loose and I shoot you for littering.
 Have your fun... just remember The People's Friend come election day.
 Oil Company candidate running on that slogan makes about as much sense as a rat fucking a grapefruit.
Hard to work up an interest in politics, way we live.  You're the first people we've seen in two weeks.
 How about a quart of Jack Daniel's?
How about it is right.  Back in the primary this town was voted dry.
 Aw, shit.  Let's go.  Leave a note for Viking Bob, tell him to meet us in Cache.
Relax.  One more day without drink won't kill you.  Right, Sam?
I'm living proof of that sad fact.
Can we buy the Marshal some dinner?
No, I better stay at my post.
So much for the walking weather you predicted.
Had no choice...  ...Given the situation.
I know.  Least you didn't shoot all of them.
Fuck you, Mitchell.  Woulda been my ass if Ben didn't waste that prick.
 Mitchell, look, it don't take three of us to wait for Viking Bob.
 Go ahead.  Take the jeep.  I'll come to Cache with Bob when he gets here.
Okay by me.  You're the one likes these hot springs so much.
Leave my traps.  We'll tag up, couple days.
I was making my rounds, saw your hangar wide open, plane getting rained on, so I closed it up.
Thanks.
 I bet you haven't had lunch.
 Bet you're right.  But I didn't come by to wangle a meal --
-- We appreciate the company. Anne Marie's getting cabin fever already.
What'd you say they call these spaceships?
Mobile Arctic Dwelling -- MAD.
I call it 'the Turtle,' as in carrying your home on your back.
Best thing is, Meyerling has to chase around to find us.
 The little creep hates it that Eric actually does what the company hired him to do.
Watch it with Meyerling.  Man's as mean and corrupt as they get. Cut his mother's throat if it'd get him a couple votes.
Hey, Sam, look over there.  Black and white smoke.
Damn.  Likely that's an SOS. Have to pass on that lunch.
We'll go with you.
Stupid goddamn greenhorns!  Froze to death.
It's not even winter!
They got wet in the rain.  Core body temperature dropped, got drowsy, probably didn't even know what was happening.
 Question is why they sat here when the storm moved in.  Check their stuff while I sniff around.
They had Emergency Locater Transmitters, but didn't use them. (opens one up; shakes his head) Maybe because they didn't bring batteries.
I'm too old for this shit.
Any idea who could've done it?
A certain sonofabitch bastard -more-
wearing a damaged mountain boot. Left a footprint clear as an autograph.
 Even for Ben Corbett, this is nasty.  Man's got balls.  He was sitting in Devil's Cauldron when I left, calm as can be.
Thank God.  You can arrest him.
Not necessarily.  Corbett's awful hardbitten these days.
 His old roaming area's all private reserve now.  Normally, long as he stays civil in my jurisdiction, I let him be.  Won't be able to take him by my lonesome, though.  Nobody in town'll lift a finger on this.
 I'll go into town with you.
Eric, leave it alone.  It's not your business.
 No way can he get away with this. I'll be back by tonight.
Ben Corbett?
Yep.  Afraid you have me at a disadvantage.
Kenai at the general store asked me to bring these.  Didn't expect we'd already met.
No big deal.  We just got off on the wrong foot.  What's your name?
Desmond.
New to the country, kid?
Six months.  Ecological study for Northland Oil.
Ecology.  Folks use that term for everything but what it means: who's eating who.
 Now, why don't you get around to saying what you want.
 You wouldn't shoot anyone...
But I would.
All this for laying traps on private land?
You left a footprint at the Sportsmen's camp.  Only pretty sight there, Ben, 'cause the two men you didn't shoot and mutilate died of exposure.
Christ if I shouldn't know better than to step in soft earth.  I've seen footprints in the tundra a hundred years old.
 I got it from here.  Thanks.
 Sam, give Dixie here fifty bucks out of my kit, will you?
Before white men came, my people lived in sod houses underground and laid our dead on the tundra. Now we live above ground and bury our dead, and we haven't been warm since.
Nice bluff the other day with the tranquilizer gun out your jeep window.  See you again, maybe.
 Yeah.  Maybe so.
I need to call Fairbanks.
 Neff!  Dial it up.  State police.
 Fairbanks Alascom?  Patch me through to the State Police.
 This is Sam Wilder, Marshal in Devil's Cauldron.  Had some killings here.  I got a suspect; be real nice if someone came and took him off my hands.
 On a good day I couldn't spare a crosswalk guard.  But now, no way.  Folks're batshit with the weather turning sour.  Bring him in yourself.
 Next plane's not coming 'til next Monday.
 Sit your suspect out in the cold. He'll keep.
 This man's friends ain't gonna look favorably on his incarceration.
 So shoot him.  Won't have to feed him that way --
Mind if I get some stuff from my kit?
 Sam, listen -- I shot to defend my man.  Other guy drew first.
If that was all, fine.  But carving him up, stranding the others, that's too fucking much. Is everything that walks, crawls, flies or swims fair game to you?
 I'll get loose before that plane comes.
Don't try me.  I'll kill you if it comes to it.
Mr. Desmond! (grins; sticks his hand out) Arthur Neff.  Area rep for the Federal Assistance Plan.  Tell the boys in DC to keep those goodies coming.
Sure.
Snowplow, generator, TV dish... hell, we get the goddamn Playboy Channel!  Here, this is for you.
EMPTY_LINE
Did you catch Corbett?
Sure did.  He was one of the trappers we rousted from the Haul Road.
Was there any trouble?
He was sitting in a hot tub with a hooker.
Going after killers isn't the same as chasing poachers, Eric.
 Can't help myself.  Corbett's type always pisses me off.  Oh, I found this at the post office.  Had your name on it.
Oh, sweetheart.  It's beautiful!
You were looking at it in the catalog.  Don't know where you can wear it...
I'll wear it for you.  And I can wear it when we go home.  We won't be here forever.
 You make it sound like a prison sentence.
That's not what I meant.
It's exactly what you meant.
Look, why get into this again. As long as it's working, let's leave it alone.  It's been nice so far.  We're together --
-- Permanently?
 Do I want to be with you permanently?  Yes, I think I do. But be with what you do and the way you live?  That I don't know. C'mon, Eric, until I met you, coming back to Alaska was totally
I'm looking for some trappers. Ben Corbett, Mitchell, LeMalle. Seen 'em?
Yesterday.  Said they were going to Cache.  They were thirsty, but we were voted dry.
Shit.
These yours?
Gonna make an offer.  Man who owns them won't need them where he's going.
Back against the bars.  Now.
Your brother and the boys left me some traps to sell for them. They're gone --
-- To Cache.  So I heard.  Ben never said nothing to me about selling his gear.
Bob!  They got me on a murder charge!
Sorry, Bob.  I'll have to keep you here 'til I ship him south.
 You stupid, greedy, loudmouth sonofabitch!  He'll have the others here in a few hours.  You fucked me up, now you're gonna help me move him.
 Forget it, Sam.  I never work for free.
I still can't believe I'm being financed by an oil company. Especially when they get a look at these pictures.  Technology in the wilderness; not too pretty.  What's that?
I thought I should check our emergency transmitters.
 Avalanche season is coming.
Winter.  Two straight months of night -- we may never get out of bed.  Which would suit me fine.
Prolonged darkness makes people crazy.
Not me.  I'm equipped.
 Allow me to give you a practical demonstration of low-light infrared photography...
 High-tech in the wilderness. Gets me excited, too.
Come here...
Ben?
 Where's Ben Corbett?
I have no argument with you, Bob. Wilder said I could keep his truck if I drove it ten miles away from town.
Where did they go?
He didn't say, but I would guess the opposite way from here.
I got an emergency on my hands.
 ...You give us a ride in the Cessna you got hangared at the pumping station, we'll be in Fairbanks in a few hours.
That's what we should've done in the first place.
I could've sat tight for the transport, 'til Bob came poking around.
 A lot to ask, dragging him away from such a good-looking girl --
 -- To take you to jail?  It'll be my pleasure.
 You better get some sleep.
Good idea.  Flying over mountains can give you some nasty surprises.  Go too low, one of the clouds might have a big rock inside it.
 I'll get you there all right.
Goddammit, I don't need this aggravation.  I'll shoot you, Ben.  Bank on it.
I don't want to hurt you, Sam.
I'm not too old to knock the snot out of you!
Nothing personal.
You want to try that handgun against this rifle, go ahead.
Some day you might have to face me without a gun.
 Fetch him back?  Don't let him walk...
 Does he have people?
 A daughter in Oregon.
Send him down to her.  There's money in my duffel bag, back at his cabin.
I better call in.
 Thought of everything, huh?
Surviving is what I know --
-- Killing is what you know.  Pack some food while I prep for the flight.  I'm sure not gonna let him go.
C'mon, girl, talk to me, negotiate with me...
LeMalle.  We got a problem. Where's Mitchell?
Goddamn!  Viking Bob!  Mitchell's inside, boring bastard...
 ...Ben never sent a signal.
Musta never got a chance to -more-
activate.  Wilder's aiming to take him to Fairbanks, we can count on that much.
Meaning he'll need a plane.
Closest planes for hire are here in Cache.
Hang on...  Remember that Cessna we saw at the pumping station on the Haul Road?  Belongs to the guy they got patrolling the pipeline.
There you go.  Wilder's always chummy with the fuckin' Bambi-lovers.
It's a long shot.
You got a better idea?
How long have you been up north?
 Six months.
Can't be.  Too keen a sense of this place in your pictures.
Six months this time.  I was born in the Aleutians.
Your people Alaskan?
My dad was a Navy doctor.
Knew you had no native blood, even with your dark hair.  Blue eyes give you away.  My wife had blue eyes.
Had?
She's dead.
Oh.
Had some good years.  Met her in '66.  She showed up one day in Coldfoot.  No one knew her.  One Sunday morning, she marched into a bar and announced she was available as a wife to the highest bidder.  Didn't work out in three months, she'd return the money and leave, no hard feelings. (off Anne Marie's amazed look) My bid was eight thousand dollars.  Beautiful girl.
How did she..?
I was gone, in September, laying traplines.  She went to our cache for some meat.  Got mauled by a bear.  Tore open her skull. -more-
Might've lived if she got help, but the exposed part of her brain froze.
 What about you -- why come back? Classy girl like you seems more suited to the finer things.
That's why I left, moved to Washington.  When I met Eric I was doing day shoots -- products and fashion, mostly.  Pretty dull.  Eric was teaching college, and then he got the job with Northland Oil.  We wanted to stay together, so we talked them into funding some wilderness photography... and here I am.
You should know something.
I don't want to talk any more.
Wasn't my intention to hurt Wilder.  I'm telling you the truth.  I liked the man.  I only meant to get loose... to survive. Your cheechako boyfriend better understand that.  Listen, I've got some money put away --
-- Don't ever think you can buy Eric off, Mr. Corbett --
-- Cheechako?
 Outsider.
 Let's go.
Wait a second.
Maybe you should drive him into Devil's Cauldron, let them decide what to do with him.
 Fairbanks is a three-hour flight. I'll be back by dinnertime.
 Be careful, okay?
That's my line.
Aim for the tires!
Let me out and keep going.  They catch us, they'll kill you.
They'll still catch us.  All you're doing is pissing them off.
Get in.  We can jump it.
How the hell were they smart enough to find us?
Smart?  Sure.  That's why I'm sitting in this plane and they're down there blowing me kisses.
 Been driving long?
I needed a pilot's license to take the job here, so I got one in six weeks.
That makes the flight more interesting.
 See the blood?  Pack of wolves took down a moose.  Greedy, gut-ripping sons of bitches.  I'd kill the last wolf on earth, right in front of the President of the U.S.  Stinking, cowardly predator, the wolf.
Sounds like professional jealousy.
Hunting and trapping was a damn fine life.  Me and Mitchell, Bob and LeMalle, we were teams.  I'd always go with Mitchell.  Good man, Mitchell.  I'd let Bob worry about goddamn LeMalle.  We'd hire a plane in October.  On the way to a dirt airstrip somewhere, we'd drop supplies.  We'd land, tell the pilot to come back for us a few days before Christmas.
The idea was to get to the supplies before the bears did. Along the route we'd set our traps.  Made our year's living in three months.
 Lot of times we didn't even have a landing strip.  We'd set down on a plateau, like that one there.  Yeah, that one's easy; you could glide right in...
Hope you got your money's worth on those lessons.
Stay put!
You got the belly to look me in the eye and pull the trigger?
Be no different than shooting a rabid dog.
 Next time you want to kill yourself, don't include me.
I took the odds on getting down in one piece, and I made it.  Now we're in my territory.
With light clothing and no supplies, this is nobody's territory.
You sound like the tourists. Know-it-alls who read about survival in a magazine.  Fuck you.  You won't make it off this mountain.
Let's go.
 I'm not gonna carry you out of here.
That's right.  You're not.
Look, take these cuffs off.  We need to work together.
Forget it.
 Last time I checked the flight plan, we were forty miles northeast of Devil's Cauldron. Southwest is that way.  No sense waiting for a goddamn taxi.
It'll be interesting, trying to build a fire without any wood.
Welcome to the environment, Mr. Ecology.  Out here, one mistake is all you get.
 Why in hell you care enough about me to die taking me in?
I don't plan on dying.
We'll stop here, dig out a snow shelter.
Snow shelter.  Okay.  You dig. I'll have a little sit-down.
 Even in the drifts, this snow's too powdery to make a shelter. When you're done jerking around, reach down the back of my coat.
Still quite a hike to Devil's Cauldron.  Days.  A long stretch to go without sleep, my friend.  You can hide behind that pistol for now, but take your eyes off me long enough to sneeze --
-- Turn around.
Ice is too thin -- you can see the water moving underneath.
We're not sitting here 'til November.  There's a cargo plane coming to Devil's Cauldron in four days, and I'm putting you on it.
We get wet, we freeze to death in a couple hours.
I've been on ice like this when I was a kid, skating.  Spread your weight, keep moving.  Go on.
 Be my guest.
 I'm right behind you.
Wait 'til I'm across!
Most dangerous thing in the world: A regular Joe, in over his head.  You trying to prove how tough you are for me, or for yourself?
It wasn't my idea to crash the plane.
Let's camp.  There's grayling under this ice. I'll snare some for dinner.
 We've got another two hours of daylight.
Pushing it is flat wrong.  All you prove is your ignorance about breaking trail.
I've been trying to raise you on the shortwave for two days.
Have you talked to Eric?
I have not, but I very much want to.  What do you know about the trouble in Devil's Cauldron?
I was hoping you had some news --
-- Get this straight: I'm the District Supervisor.  Whatever you do reflects on me.  It wasn't my idea to bring you people up here, but I'm stuck with you. You are absolutely not to involve yourself in any local disputes. Whichever side you take, you alienate the other.  Mr. Corbett is quite well-known in this region.  People admire him --
-- Corbett's a killer.
I don't care if Ben Corbett makes meatloaf out of nuns and babies, he's not your concern. Understood?
 What happened here?
The radio's on the fritz.
Where'd you say Eric is?
Somewhere along the pipeline.
What about that hotheaded marshal, Sam Wilder?  I heard he was in the middle of this mess.
Sam?  We haven't seen him.
Really.  I thought maybe that was his snowmobile outside.  By the way -- your truck also 'on the fritz?'
 Why?
It's out by the pumping station, shot full of holes.
 Still nothing to tell me?  Suit yourself.
Have to backtrack, find another way down.
Forget it.  It would take days.
 Going to be a bit of a challenge with handcuffs on.
Better get into those trees before that squall blows down.
You talk about ecology -- there it is.
Where's Ben at?
You'll want to hear about it with a drink in your mitt.
...Figures, Corbett getting hauled off by a Federal marshal. God almighty, how I hate the U.S. government.
We should pass a hat.  Send Corbett a few bucks.  We owe him.
Government and business.  They ruined this state.  Like that little weasel, for instance.
Hold it.  Meyerling told me that stuff's nothing but P.R. for the TV and papers down in Juneau.
He's full of shit.  We got run out of there by some fuckhead driving a Northland truck.
I called the cops in Fairbanks, see when Ben is standing trial. They don't know shit about Ben or Wilder!
Get the fuck out of here.
It's a three-hour flight.  They shoulda got there yesterday.
Maybe they went back to Devil's Cauldron.
Naah, Wilder knows we got friends in town.
That plane might've been to throw us off the track.  Remember the bait-and-switch Wilder pulled with the Eskimo and his truck?
Wilder still woulda made Fairbanks by now.  Fuck a duck! Ben musta got loose.
Okay, let's backtrack, try to pick up his trail.  You know the kid out on the pipeline that Wilder's buddies with?
 We were just talking about him.
 Just gather birch.  It'll smoke like hell, but it'll burn green.
I need your pocket knife.  I have to eat, too.
 Damn lucky this storm didn't blow down when we were on those baldheaded mountains.  It continues, we better stay put.
It could blow over tomorrow, too.
I'm still figuring: You're either real brave or real dumb.
I just want this over with.
 Where in hell Meyerling dig you up?
You know Meyerling?
Sure.  The People's Friend.  Kiss your ass with precision if there's a vote in it.
 Always eat your meat raw when the weather's cold.  Does you more good, long as the entrails look clean.
I'll hold onto that.
Sure love to know where you fit in up here.
I'm here to do my job.
You want to fool yourself about that bullshit job, fine.  Damn shame you have to drag your girlfriend along.  You think a woman like that will be happy making moose stew for a man -more-
making your salary?  Look, I'll give you five grand.  Take the money and go home where you both belong.
Don't fucking insult me.
Folks come to Alaska for a real short list of reasons:  Money. Adventure.  Solitude.  Those cover most everyone.  But frontiers also draw another type of man.  One with a demon in his gut.  He comes to the edge of the world to face that demon, and lay it to rest.
Yeah?
Yep.  Sometimes they do, but usually they end up crazy or dead.
...This is "Tundra Topics" on KFAR.  Remember, as the nights get longer, be sure to stay on a regular sleep schedule.  The depression from the coming of winter that doctors call 'Seasonal Affective Disorder' -- or 'Arctic Blue' to us lay folk -- is preventable.
 ...John Byers was hospitalized in Fairbanks today for an infection in an abscessed tooth.  Mr. Byers had a toothache and attempted to remove the tooth himself with a pair of pliers...
There's a cabin, maybe twenty miles south of here.
 Too bad we're heading west.
There's a snowmobile. Inside a day we could be on the Yukon.  I got money there.  Remember that five thousand?  Make it ten.  Be smart.  Take it and walk away.
 You don't get it, do you?
 Stop!
Nothing personal.  Just wanted to see what you'd do.
 Have to get these wet things off.
You're not going to slow us down! Keep moving!
Inside of three hours you'd be dragging my dead carcass.
Stay awake!  You want to go hypothermic?
If that means freeze my balls off, no thanks.  I'll be okay.
 Told you I'm fine!
 How many do you see?
 What?!  Fuck off.  Save yourself.
You don't feel cold?
It's a spring day...
Wake up, goddammit!  You've got classic hypothermia -- crankiness, fatigue, can't feel your coldness.  Worst thing you can do is fade out.
 One more thing -- this doesn't mean we're going steady.
Stay still.
Where's my ELT?
Emergency transmitter?  All your gear is back at Wilder's.
You got one?
It was blown up with the plane.
Too bad.  We'd be out of here in a few hours.
How?  Nobody this far north monitors that frequency until avalanche season.  Besides, I'm surprised a tough guy like you uses fancy electronics.
I'm surprised a flat-ender like you knows cold-weather remedies.
I'm hungry.  Go kill me some dinner.
An appetite.  Maybe you won't die after all.
Hate to disappoint you.
 It's about time...
Hullo?
Somebody left in a big hurry.  Check outside.
 Grizzly sign.  Looks fresh.
It's Sam Wilder!
Musta wanted to keep him from the bears.  If Ben killed him, he sure as hell wouldn't hang him up like this.
Where's the kid?
Who gives a husky fuck?  Where's Ben?
I should get me a job with an oil company.
I say we eat, torch this fuckin' thing, and move on.
Go easy.
Cool out.  I ain't about to get blasted.
Big mother musta wanted something real bad in here...
I know in my gut he was here. First light, we try to get scent of his trail.
Used to see the natives eating roots when I was a kid in Nome.
Nome?  I figure you'd be a whaler, coming from there.
Told that's what our old man was. Planned on going to sea, me and Bob, 'til I read Jack London. Started trapping when I was ten. Mailed the furs to Sears.  Eight bucks for a skunk, three for a muskrat.  That was fine money.
Killing wildlife not good enough anymore, so you go on to bigger and better things.
You got a knack for seeing things the way you want to see them.
 Don't judge me.  You're a joke, coming here from a fucked-up culture, telling us what to do!
Yeah, it is fucked up -- but it's not too late to keep that from happening here.
 All you do is keep folks from working the land, living like they're meant to.  You don't understand shit!  Trappers, hunters -- we're part of the environment.  Who's protecting us?  I've seen plenty like you.  So -more-
full of yourselves there's no room for other people's way of life.
What do you know about people? You live like an animal!  A savage goddamn throwback like you belongs out here, as far away from the rest of us as possible.
I'm real sad you don't approve of me.
 Tell me what I should do, Professor.  You got all the answers.  I shouldn't hunt? Fine, I'll just phone up and have a salad delivered.
Don't push me..!
Cowardly bastard.  I'm in handcuffs and I still scare the piss out of you.
 First you save my ass, now you want to kill me.  Make up your goddamn mind.
Wilder's missing church services; you believe it?
I just as soon he stay gone. Fool could've got us all killed, arresting Ben Corbett here in town.
What makes you so sure my boys won't be waiting for us?
They think you're in Fairbanks. If not, they still won't find you before the plane comes tomorrow.
Don't bet on it.
I already have.
You don't know how true that is.
We'll wait here until nightfall. No fire, no tarp.
Didn't mean it, you being a coward.  You're a lot of things,
Maybe...maybe not.  I'll tell you what scares me -- stumbling through life, like an ordinary jerk.  That's why I want to work on the front lines, where what I do means something.  Soon as I got here, I realized my job was bullshit.  Oil company propaganda.  I was ready to leave, then I thought screw it, I'll outsmart them, do the work anyway.  I don't know anymore.  Maybe I am fooling myself.  That's what I'm afraid of most of all.
Hell, I still get a knot in my gut every season, wondering how much longer I can go on.  No 'Home for Retired Trappers' that -more-
I ever saw.  We're like Eskimos -- get too old to be useful, we're left on the ice to die.
 My wife used to go to chapel on Sundays.  See her friends, 'cause I was away so much.  Should've been home that day. She'd be getting dressed right about now...
My guess is he's loose and heading for Chukfoktulik.  He'll need supplies; that's the closest settlement without a lawman.
I ain't gonna leave a seven- hundred-dollar Remington behind.
 What you gonna do with it?  Large bore's for shit on small game.
Not in the right hands it ain't.
 Thought that door was open last night...
Quit fucking around.  Get in.
You don't mind me saying, Mr. Desmond, you look like hell.
Have you heard anything from the girl staying with me, Anne Marie?
Not a damn thing.  What's going on?  Mr. Meyerling was here, all steamed up, looking for you.
Look, Neff, I've got Ben Corbett with me --
-- Here?!  Where's Wilder?
Back at my place... he, uh, broke his leg.
If Corbett's men find out --
-- I'm putting him on the plane to Fairbanks, eleven tomorrow.
Jiminy Christmas.  What do you want from me?
Corbett ruined my two-way.  Go to my place on the Haul Road, tell Anne Marie I'm okay and to sit tight.
I'll go at dawn.
Thanks.  Don't tell anyone you saw me.
Why the smirk?
Bet I could make some money turning Ben Corbett in.  Maybe more for lettin' him loose.  I was up in my cache.  Saw the Northland man come talk to you.
You're out of your greedy goddamn mind.
Corbett coming here stinks of trouble.  We should make the best of it before it turns around and bites us in the ass.
Stay out of it.
Talk to that good-looking girl of yours?
You broke the radio, remember?
 I'm sure she's fine.  Seemed like a clever kid.
 You were real resourceful out there.  Got me thinking of this perimeter man, froze all his fingers one winter.  So he hacked the tips off and sharpened the exposed bones.  Gets along better than ever.  Yeah, maybe I underestimated you.
I liked you better frozen.  You didn't talk so much.
You're damn lucky, glimpsing this country before it's ruined, gone for good.  You saw wonders you'd only dreamed of.  That alone makes you different than the sorry bastards back where you came from, because you have dreamt them.
 Remember that demon in the gut? Sometimes it's nothing more than wondering if the so-called civilized life has bred the balls and brains out of you.  That's what you want out of this, isn't it?
All I want want is you in jail --
 He saw you and Corbett come in...
Dixie's waiting at the infirmary. She'll put a splint on that injured leg.
Don't let him fool you.  Real reason he's here is to buy Corbett's traps.
 Okay.  You can talk to him.  But I'll keep the keys with me.
Earl says you get discount. Twenty-five dollar.
 Look, Ben, we don't want any trouble.  The kid's got the key, and besides, he looks edgy enough to use that magnum he's carrying.
Relax.  I'll get loose in time.
Any traps you don't want, I'll pay cash money.
Guess someone should use them. Open the bottom drawer in Wilder's desk.  My kit's in there.  Might as well unload everything.
I wash your back for you.  You will like it.
I hate to interrupt playtime, but why the hell are you caught up in a local matter when I gave you express instructions to the contrary?!
Cut the shit, Leo.  I might need your help...
They got nice beds upstairs, honey.
I'm standin' guard duty. Besides, rather spend the room money on sloppy seconds.
Hey, Tiger --
...I won't let a killer walk!
Alleged killer.
What does this matter to you?
 You can't see past your lousy little assignment, sniffing around the pipeline.  The few voters there are in this district look up to Corbett, and I'm not about to alienate them.
I should release Corbett because you want some votes?
This miserable wilderness is a state of the union.  Policy's made here the same way as in the civilized world: at the ballot box.  That's the beauty of it -- these icebox cowboys are living a century too late.  Get them on your side, it's like buying Manhattan for beads.  With a handful of votes you control the greatest frontier since white men stumbled onto the New World.
Some day these people'll wake up, and you'll be the first one they'll run out of here.
 Shit...  Do what you have to.  So will I.
Northwest.  Devil's Cauldron.
What's wrong?
Just stay out of my face until I'm gone!
 Emergency transmitter?  What happened to signal mirrors or two-tone smoke fires?
Lets us watch each other's backs over a wide area.  Only thing messed me up this time was getting arrested in the baths. ELT was in my duffel bag, not around my neck where it should've been.
No way they'll find you on a five-minute signal.  And no way -more-
they'll get here in eight hours in this weather, unless they're right around the corner.
They haven't disappointed me yet.
Flashbomb, eh?
I need to rent a cabin.
What's the problem with Sam Wilder's place?
Will you rent me a cabin, or not?
Pretty clever:  If the trappers got that signal beacon and get here in time, Sam's is the first place they'll look.  They may figure you're waiting for an airplane, so you can't stay in the shack by the airstrip.  Last place they'd expect you is on the far side of town.  I can't afford any trouble --
 -- Here's a hundred dollars.  And if you or anyone else will back me up on this --
 -- Forget it.  And try not to bleed on my throw rugs. (walks away, then turns back) Why do this?
If you have to ask, you wouldn't understand.
Eric!  Why aren't you in Fairbanks?
 Oh, Christ, sweetheart.  Four days!  I thought you were dead, or worse.
You can't stay here.  Go back to the Turtle.  I'll meet you back there in a few hours.
 What's going on?
I'll tell you everything later.
Where's Corbett?
Here.  A transport plane is due at eleven.  Once I put him on it, it's all over.
So what's the problem?
There isn't one, unless Corbett's men get here before the plane does.
Let the people here handle it. It's their marshal Corbett killed!
Please, Anne Marie, you being here only complicates things.
I'm staying.
Take the snowmobile, park it behind Wilder's cabin.
I was just on my way to your ladyfriend's, but I guess she found you.
Yeah.  Sorry I barked at you last night.
I'm the one should be sorry... Goddamn Kenai, always out for a score.  I never should've let him go over there.
I'd sure like that favor you offered a while back.
Look, Mr. Desmond, I didn't count on it turning this ugly.
What are you talking about?
Bastards killed Sam, you think they won't kill the rest of us?
There'll be three, four men at the most.  I have some backup, nothing will happen.
I'm real sorry.  In a while, you're gone from this country. But we live here.  No one wants to mix it up with those hombres.
 You don't care enough about Sam to --
-- Sam Wilder was my cousin. He's why I came to Alaska.  All his letters, saying what a paradise it is.  But me ending up dead won't do Sam a lick of good.
You're hurt.
Nothing broken.  C'mon, we have to hurry.
Could've told you no one would help...
 Maybe you can talk sense into your boyfriend.
Shut up!
EMPTY_LINE
We're moving.  Let's go.
You'll catch a chill by that dumb waiter shaft.  Sit on the cot.  Keep this pointed at him if I get preoccupied.
 Ben?  Ben Corbett?
Look, we pull Ben's ass out of the fire, I'll get you a whole damn crate of Snickers bars.
 I'm right fuckin' here with you.
Ben!  Speak out before I torch every dump in town!
Answer and I'll shoot!
You kill me, you sign your death warrant.  And hers.
 You hear me?  Ben?
 Ease off.  We do this my way.
 Whoever's holding Ben Corbett, listen to me: we just want to know he's okay.  He is, nobody gets hurt.
They know I'm here.  I don't say something, they'll plow this town under.  You willing to accept that responsibility?
Say you're okay.  Tell them I'll kill you if they rush us.
 Bob?
Relax.  I got a nervous man here with a magnum up my nose.
You in one piece?
I'm fine.  Look forward to seeing you...
Count on it.
 Sweet-talk won't get shit.  Choose it, asswipe -- cut Corbett loose, or soon as you come outside, I put a fuckin' bullet through your eye!
Snow's to their advantage, kid. You can't see them, but soon as that plane comes, they'll sure as hell know where we're going. Wise up.  Take me to the Yukon. I'll give you that money and guarantee you'll walk away.
Why offer a buyoff with your gunmen waiting outside?
The time has passed for men like them and me.  I know it.  But they're still fighting for survival, like cornered animals. That's why they'll kill you. -more-
 Be rude to let that happen after you kept me from freezing back there.
 He's right about the snow.  We're blind.
Ben?
At least your girl had the sense to jump ship.  Too bad she's the only one small enough to fit through that dumb waiter.
Just wait, we don't know what this guy's up to.  Ben'll let us know what to do.
Your infrared camera?
 Technology in the wilderness. Only problem is talking to you on your way to the landing strip.
I've got an idea.  We'll have to work fast.
There's what they're waiting on!
 They'll have to come right past us.
When you ran off, I thought you'd keep going 'til you were back home in Washington.
My home is here.  With you.
 They're moving toward you!
 They're fanning out.
 Kenai's PA -- but how the fuck she seein' us?
Doesn't matter.  We know where they're going.  C'mon.
 One is moving back toward the cabins.
Earl, it's crazy to go out there.
I hear someone in the spa.
 That'll keep him out of the cold.
He'll live.
 Don't make me shoot.
 We're going to Sam's cabin.  You can stay in the jail until this is over.
Want to chance it with that hog-leg?  You can't even hold it up.  Better drop me first shot, bitch, or I'll rip your fuckin' lungs out.
 Lookit this damn mess.  Where in hell's Wilder?
 Dead.  Trappers killed him.
Aw, Jesus.  Told you this was trouble.  What about you, big shot?  Do something.  Who's side are you on, anyway?
Hey, I thought you people loved Corbett and his wild men!
This shoot-'em-up shit is bad for business.  I'm sick of it.
What about you, Neff?
Well... two of the trappers are down already --
 -- One left; three of us.  Let's finish it.
What about Eric Desmond?
I'll handle him.
 Over there...
 Hold it.  You might hit Ben.
Bullshit.  I hit what I'm aiming at.
Let 'em come closer first...
Glad to see you're okay.  I told LeMalle not to shoot.  Had some fine seasons, didn't we...
 Fifteen years on the trail with this man, I never saw him rise to anger.
 Your first kill.  How does it taste?
 Circle, this is BMY-955.  I just touched down in Devil's Cauldron. Nobody's here to greet me like usual, and there's gunfire.  I'm getting scarce.
You can't leave yet.
It's my responsibility to get this aircraft out of here safely.
 You got to be kidding.
Leave the engines idling.  Go back and open the side door.
Nobody wants any more killings; we all agree to that, correct?  That's good.  Now, Eric, you're gonna hand your prisoner over to us.
Fuck you.
This isn't your concern.  It's over, here and now.
 Sure, when you put a bullet in my back on the way out.  Easier for all involved.
Not a bad idea.  Face it, Ben. There's no room in Alaska for you any more.
 You're as antiquated as this shit.
Keep back.
You're quite a piece of work, Meyerling.  The tide changes, you ride right along with it.
Neff, you know better than this...
You're an outsider, Mr. Desmond. Step aside; stay out of it.
 Anybody moves and I'll shoot!
 Can you walk?
Wound's a through-and-through. Missed my liver, I think.
Let's get out of here.
How come you didn't let him shoot me?
 Like I said, I'd still be up on that mountain, frozen solid, it wasn't for you.
We'll get you to a hospital, soon as we get to Fairbanks.
So they can patch me up and put me in a cage?  Forget it. Meyerling's right -- I'm a dinosaur.  Greedy bastards like him, it's their turn with this land.  Put me in the woods, let me live or die on my own.
 Look down there, tell me what any of this matters.  Struggles of men get swallowed by the bigness. Soon there won't be a trace of our troubles... or us.
You're wrong.  Everything we do leaves its mark.  You said it yourself -- there are hundred- year-old footprints in the tundra.
 Too damn crazy in this state anymore.  I'm moving back to L.A.
