The familiar logo WARNER BROS. PRESENTS COMES UP. After a beat, it is consumed by FIRE. It becomes AN AMERICAN FLAG, BURNING in the street.
PASTED TO ROOSEVELT GATE: photographs of STUDENTS who were killed under the deposed Shah of Iran's regime. Signs in English: U.S.A. RETURN THE SHAH -- JUSTICE FOR MURDER. A few IRANIAN POLICE attend -- more as bystanders than peacekeepers. A MAN frantically stabs an EFFIGY of the SHAH. An IRANIAN STUDENT films the scene with a Super 8 camera.
Carnival's bigger today. MARK LIJEK, 29, a consular officer, joins Anders at the window.
When one YOUNG MAN wearing a green military field jacket raises his fist, we can see that he has a concealed PISTOL in his clothes. More STUDENTS climbing the wall -- dropping the 12 feet to the other side, one after another.
There are hundreds of people out
Are these supposed to be bulletproof?
Well, they've never been tested.
Marines to Number One -- FALL
 Can we get some fucking police please?
Don't shoot. You don't want to be the sonofabitch who started a war -
They need an hour to burn the classified -- Hold.  You shoot one person, they'll kill every one of us in here.
La ilaha ilallah -- A WOMAN IN A CHADOR uses her own radio. Some of them ring around the building, holding hands and chanting. Some carry AUTOMATIC WEAPONS openly.
-- We're not going out in this --
I'm going outside.
Why?
To reason with them. Marines open the Chancery door, with a look --
Just everything. Don't sort it --
 -- NONE, there are no police --
-- Second floor -- anyone who can hear this -- we need help -- As we MOVE DOWN the line of desks, J STAFFORD is also on a radio repeating the same in FARSI -- Others PACK things.
Let me in! Jesus Christ! Open the fucking door! The Marines OPEN THE CHANCERY DOOR -- PROTESTERS POUR IN.
-- Washington on flash -- Get Ops -- get a line -- We hear -- The POUNDING of footsteps on the roof. They look up.
Well, Tom. You wanted to see the world... The furnace makes a LOUD CHUNK and stops. They both hold their looks for a beat.
Are you kidding me?
Get the shredder.
No... Hal -- yes -- INSIDE the building, IN --
Nobody is coming. We need to go.
Iranians first.  Go! Now!
 It's done. They're in. She puts down the phone.
Keep going.
These fucks can hit us, we Mossadeq. We did it to can't hit back? them first.
You think the Russians would put up with this? They'd fucking
ROBERT PENDER, 40s, joins them heading down the hall. They've all gotten the same call to get to the Secretary's office. PETER GENCO, late 20s, behind.
What did you expect? We helped a guy torture and de- Schafer! Schafer! ball an entire population --
At least 60. Could be a hundred.
 You still haven't found Schafer?
Six got out!
I was told five.
Apparently it's six now.
What happened?
Not clear. We know they escaped the embassy.
Where are they?
The Canadian Ambassador's house.
Are we attempting rescue?
Hold for the Secretary --
-- there's no one -- this is he...  Can we get Ottawa patched? Five phones and none of them work. Coming back -- on phone --
Is White House joining?
They're claiming the embassy was a den of --
We wish it was the fucking Den of Espionage. C.I. had three people there, didn't see a revolution coming? I'd call that something other than intelligence --
 Hold for the Chief of Staff -- (holds out the phone
They're sticking to it. No I'll call him back. release till we expel the shah. Jordan sinks into his chair, putting his feet up on the desk. JON TITTERTON, 30s, an aide to Jordan --
Put him on a plane. Fuck him.
He's half dead and he's in chemo.
We took him in. He's ours now.
So we'll take in any prick as long as he's got cancer?
No. Just the pricks on our side. So all our other pricks on their prick thrones know, when they get run out on a rail, they won't be getting their spleens out by a camel vet in the Sinai.
The six with the Canadians. Now Jordan is looking at a monitor showing footage of a BLINDFOLDED HOSTAGE in front of the Embassy. AL GOLACINSKI being prodded and led down the front stairs of the embassy.
We've got 60 in the embassy with guns to their heads right now --
The eyes of the world are on the embassy. That makes them safer than the six on the street.
 Bani-Sadr's saying it'll be over in 24 hours.
Leave the six where they are. I'll go brief the president.
Yellow ribbons tied to lampposts. A Catholic church with a sign on the lawn that says PRAY FOR OUR HOSTAGES. A dry cleaner with a large American flag in the window and yellow ribbons drawn by kids around it. The exterior of a neighborhood bar, O'Tooles. More ribbons. SUPERIMPOSE: McLEAN, VIRGINIA - 69 DAYS LATER
Yeah. He listens for a moment, then sits up, suddenly wide- awake.
Prime Minister Bani-Sadr today re- stated demands for the hostages' release...
Week ten of a hostage I'm so afraid that I won't crisis that seems without see him again. That he end. A glimmer of hope won't get out from over after the release of some there, because everything -- women and Afro-Americans it seems like everything but little activity in the they're trying to do is weeks since, and the images just backfiring, it's not of bound Americans under working -- armed guard have many losing hope -- Under these images we hear an undulating drone -- the constant accompaniment of life then -- coverage of the hostage crisis.
The United States shall not purchase oil from Iran. Iranian assets shall be frozen and the U.S. shall engage in a forceful campaign of international diplomacy against the Iranians...
Ten weeks State's sitting on this?
The six of them went out a back exit. Brits turned them away, Kiwis turned them away. The Canadians took them in. They've been there since. O'Donnell hands Mendez pages with STAFF PHOTOGRAPHS of SIX PEOPLE -- the escaped embassy employees -- as he continues to toss stuff into his folder.
Traffic calls them The Houseguests. Haven't left the Canadian ambassador's house since it happened.
Compromised?
 Just a matter of time. We've got Revolutionary Guards going door-to- door like Jehovah's Witnesses, looking for escapees. They're out for blood, Tony. Half of them think Khomeini's been too lenient with the ones in the embassy. Walking out of his office, Mendez following.
White House?
Carter's shitting enough bricks to build the pyramids. He wants the six of them out.
Who else knows?
Just the families. Meanwhile, some genius in the embassy was keeping a mug book of everybody who worked there.
Jesus Christ.
We think it got shredded before they got in, but the fuckers have sweat-shop kids in there re- assembling the shreds.
They're gonna make an example of the ones who escaped. Standing- room-only for beheadings in the square.
Who's handling? They walk through a door and out of the Pit.
State's coordinating in-house.
They don't do exfils.
They do now. They want to run it by us, strictly as consultants. Off his look.
Engell's saying it's lose-lose. These people die, they die badly. Publicly. State wants the blame, he'll give it to them.
Then why's he want me?
So he can tell State he ran it by his best exfil guy. They stop in front of a conference room. Jack looks at him.
Tony. This isn't the kind of meeting where you talk.
Other CIA Operations OFFICERS and ANALYSTS sit in audience.
Okay. This is Bob Pender from State O.S. He's been talking to Morgan at ExtAff. GENCO, a State Department Assistant, removes a drape from the photographs of SIX FACES, State Department I.D. photos. Pender indicates the first two photos -- and during this, we may flash to scenes of the Houseguests in the Canadian ambassador's residence --
Mark and Cora Lijek, 29 and 25. He's a consular officer and she's an assistant. Newlyweds. They just got there a couple of months ago. No language skills or in- country knowledge.  Henry Lee Schatz. Agricultural attache from Idaho. He was there to sell U.S. tractors to Iranian agro. Hid out with the Swedes during the takeover then made his way to join the others with the Canadians.  J Stafford. Late twenties. He's smart and a climber. Speaks Farsi. Arranged the hire of his wife Kathy --
Understaffed so the faculty wives were the typing pool. That gs without comment in this room of men.
 Bob Anders. Senior consular officer, oldest of the group. Most likely to be group leader. So.
 What we like for this are bicycles. We've identified backroads from the Shemiran district -- a couple of rat lines through the mountains to the crossing at Tabriz. Cars are off the table because of the roadblocks. Pender nods to Bates, who gs to a map, indicating the north of Iran.
We wait till the weather clears up then we deliver six bikes and provide maps to the Turkish border.
We have intelligence they can ride bicycles. Or we're prepared to send in somebody to teach them. The professional spies shifting at the stupidity of it. But nobody speaks up. And then --
You can send in training wheels and wait at the border with Gatorade. Attention turns to Mendez. O'Donnell shifts. Engell, not happy.
It's 300 miles to the Turkish crossings. They'd need a support crew behind them with a tire pump.
Who is -- We've only been asked to sharpshoot this, State's handling the op.
Tony's an exfil spesh. He got a lot of the shah's people out after the fall.
We're exploring that They wouldn't clear airport option. control. Komiteh own the place.
They would pose as reporters. The government issued 70-something -- Jumping in--MARIO MALINOV, 30s, an ambitious Bulgarian CIA analyst, Bronx Science and MIT, raised in Queens,
-- visas for American 74. journalists.
And the Revolutionary Guards keep them on 74 leashes.
They get caught with journalist creds, you've got Peter Jennings with a noose around his neck in an hour. PAUL LAMONT, late 20s, a Master's from the Woodrow Wilson School before he joined CIA --
World Noose Tonight. Pender looks at Bates, who is trying to impress his boss.
North American accents give us limited options. So we get the Canadians to issue them passports...
English teachers from the international school. Tested model. It's worked before.
The school was shut eight months ago. Bates, meanwhile, removing a binder from his accordion folder: in the binder, a photograph of an emaciated kid in Namibia.
So do-gooders. They're six Canadians who've been over there inspecting crops. Making sure the kids get enough to eat. Get them creds for an AG NGO -- But he's already lost Mendez, who is going through a newspaper on the table.
A Feed the Children thing -- These kids are black. O.S. can make binders with These are African kids. starving kids --
Are there starving kids in We can get ethnically Iran? appropriate kids.
I'm sure there's skinny A logo with... seeds. kids... Seeds of Hope'... Mendez holds a page from the newspaper up to Pender.
What do you see in the picture, sir? A beat. Pender dsn't like this, but he'll play.
Tehran.
What's on the ground?
Snow.
So what crops are the do-gooders inspecting under Frosty? Pender shifts.
Exfils are like abortions. You don't wanna need one, but when you do, you don't do it yourself. The meeting is breaking up. Pender, followed by Bates, leaves the room. Engell, who has just been made to look bad and inherited a problem, stops by Tony.
Get one.
At dinner around a dining room table: the SIX HOUSEGUESTS; KEN TAYLOR, 40s, Canadian ambassador. He ds much to support the myth that Canadians are always in a good mood. Next to him is PAT TAYLOR, Filipino, 40s. We're joining various conversations, including one with LEE SCHATZ, 29, an American agricultural attache, the sixth escapee we heard about.
-- Martin was the worst one. Martin the Maximo King --
 -- he looked like a cartoon witch doctor, bone through his nose, so she asked to take her picture with
J Stafford, keeping to himself.
 You okay?
-- if your family's hungry, you don't want to hear about international law --
Same thing. The sound of a fork on a glass. Ken Taylor is standing up.
I read today that Tehran was voted the second most desirable city in the world to live in. Everywhere else tied for first.
 Our hosts. Mr. Ambassador...
You should get into the crawl space.
The White House Christmas tree was taken down today after never having been lit, as the cruel stalemate in Iran continues.
Today, a clear threat to place the remaining 50 Americans on trial as spies.
 Kathy dsn't want to go down again.
Those who remain here are spies. They will be treated as spies who have interfered with the sovereignty of the people of Iran.
So, like the government in Washington, the people in Pecatonica are grappling for solutions. JACK STROUP, Vietnam vet, red beard, a cap with the Kenworth trucks logo, a denim jacket.
Even in our little community here, people are drawn up, they're tense.
I'm like that guy screamin' in that movie-program Network, y'know? I've had it. And if need be, I'll bear arms again.
Hello.
Buddy-man.
Mom's asleep.
You do homework tonight?
Yeah.
What was it? But Tony can hear a television soundtrack with ominous electronic music.
What do I hear?
What channel?
Nine. 81 Mendez turns on his living room television to the three- 81 hour BATTLE FOR PLANET OF THE APES.
Catch me up. Tony listens, staring ahead at the TV . A desert landscape dotted with technological garbage. An ape played by Roddy MacDowell walks across the landscape. He's staring at the television, but now really paying attention. The apes walk into the ruins of what was once a great city. RODDY MacDOWELL  This is the hell my forefathers used to speak about.
staring at the movie. Wheels turning in his head.
My creation... My creation...
Cut!
A bell. WIDER REVEALS that we're on a...
(inquiring into a
John Chambers. John Chambers make- up...
He says the Minotaur's prosthetic is too tight so he can't act.
If he could act he wouldn't be playing the Minotaur. He smiles and waves at the Minotaur and begins to work on his prosthetic with a brush and solvent.
Mr. Chambers.
Kevin Harkins? Chambers gives the kid a look, takes the phone from him and puts it to his ear.
Hey, Tony.
 Is he coming? Engell nods for the door to be shut.
They would pose as teachers from the international school.
We went through all that -- it's boarded up -- O'Donnell looking at the clock.
Suppose the airport guards don't know that --
Suppose. Suppose Heckle and Jeckle go over and save them -- The door swings open.
Hi. Sorry. Hi.
Have a seat, Tony. He dsn't. There's an energy in him we haven't seen before.
They're a Canadian film crew on a location scout for a science fiction movie -- A shift in the room.
Star Wars, Star Trek. They need an exotic place to shoot. We put it out -- the Canadian producers put it out -- that they're looking at Turkey, Egypt, whatever. Then we go to the consulate and say we wanna look at Iran. I fly in there and we fly out together as a film crew. Done.
This is more plausible than foreigners who want to go to school in Iran --
So you're going to wake up tomorrow in the movie business? We have credentials for --
I've got a contact in L.A.
(after a beat, to
Remind me who you are again?
We want you to go to L.A. If you can make the movie thing credible, we'll take it to the Director. (a beat; a cigarette
Don't fuck up. The whole country's watching you. They just don't know it.
A Komiteh drags away a MAN in his forties while the man's wife cries. Automatic weapons are aimed at him, point- blank. From ACROSS THE STREET, an IRANIAN WOMAN, 20s, watches.
Lee Schatz and Bob Anders play poker in a room decorated with Persian carpets and mosaics. The gunfire audible here too. Staring at their cards.
50 caliber?
Mmm. 50, 35.
Pat Taylor helps THE SAME WOMAN we just saw, SAHAR, 20s, clear the table. She is their housekeeper.
Your friends from Canada, ma'am. All this time. They never go out. A significant moment of eye contact. Then Sahar gs back to clearing the table.
You've washed them three times. He puts his arm on her shoulder. She keeps scrubbing.
Sahar knows.
What are you shooting?
A monster movie.
Any good?
The target audience will hate it.
Who's the target audience?
People with eyes. Talk to me.
It's an exfil.
From where?
Worst place you can think of.
Universal City.
How you getting in the embassy?
Six got away. They're hiding in the city. I'm going over to get them.
What am I making?
I need you to help me make a fake movie.
You've come to the right place.
I need to set up a production company and build a cover around making a movie.
That we're not going to make.
No.
You want to go around Hollywood acting like you're an important person in the movie business.
That's right.
But you don't want to actually do anything.
No.
You'll fit right in.
This one's got an M.A. in English. She should be your screenwriter. Sometimes they go on scouts cause they want the free meals.  This guy's the director.
Can you teach a guy how to be a director in a day?
You can teach a rhesus monkey to be a director in a day. Look, if you're gonna do it, you've got to do it. The Khomaniacs are fruit loops, but they have cousins selling eight tracks and prayer rugs on La Brea. You can't build cover stories around a movie that dsn't exist. You need a script. You need a producer.
I'm the producer.
No, you're not. Associate' at best. If it's a twenty-million dollar Star Wars rip-off, you need somebody who's a somebody to put his name on it. Here we see some AUTOGRAPHED 70s CELEBRITY 8X10s hanging on the wall. The waiter brings a bill.
Somebody respectable. With credits. Who we can trust with classified information. Who'll produce a fake movie. For free.
Yeah, come in.
Mazel tov, Lester.
Aaah, I'd rather stay home and count the wrinkles on my dog's balls. These fuckin' things are like getting measured for your coffin. He don't look so good. Let's give him an honorary award.'
A little experiment. You be me hearing you. The TV we're watching sits in a room with a couple of Golden Globes and pictures of a younger Lester.
Six people in the middle of a city of, what, four million -- ON TV, a wild-eyed woman in the crowd (in one of the most widely-played clips of the hostage crisis) makes an ax- falling gesture with her arm repeatedly.
-- who chant Death to America' all the livelong day. You wanna set up a picture in a week. Lie to a whole town of people who lie for a living. Have Double-O-Seven here sneak into a country that wants CIA blood with their breakfast cereal. Duck Iranian intelligence. Then walk the Brady Bunch out of the most watched city in the world...
... and past a hundred Komiteh at the airport.
Look, I wanna help you but... In the Army, we did suicide missions that had better odds. So lemme hit it again for the cheap seats:
Chambers gives Mendez a look.
(to Lester, as he
Enjoy your fish dinner tonight. Chambers stops at the muted television. More images of angry crowds.
You ever think, Lester, how it's all for the cameras?
They're getting the ratings, I'll give em that -- Siegel looks at the TV: at that moment, a HOSTAGE TAKER holding up photos of hostages for CAMERAS in front of him. He takes a beat.
We're gonna need a script. A beat of silence. A LOOK from Siegel to Chambers.
Nobody makes Westerns anymore.
 It's ancient Troy.
If it's got horses in the title, it's a Western.
 Yeah, Kenny, please. It's John Chambers, about the office space.
If I'm doing a fake movie, it's gonna be a fake hit.
The Canadians are done. Say they're bearing too much risk.
Foreign Secretary cornered Vance in Brussels and told him she's serving eviction papers. The Cardinal wants all cover options on his desk Friday morning.
That's too soon.
Engell's prepping the Bikes Option and the Teachers Option. You've got 72 hours to make yours better...
 Fade in on starship landing. An exotic, Middle Eastern vibe. Women gather, offering ecstatic libations to the sky gods.'
It's in turnaround. It's dog shit.
It's a space movie in the Middle East. Ds it matter? Chambers looks at the BULLSEYE logo on the cover page. Reacts.
Why do we need the option?
You're worried about the Ayatollah? Try the WGA.
He's only a prick if you catch him on the wrong day.
Is it the wrong day?
It's always the wrong day. They've arrived at a door with a sign: MAX KLEIN
You're gonna get this into production in one month?
One month.
Who are you again?
Kevin Harkins. Studio Six Films.
He's the money.
I thought you were retired, Lester.
-- Till I read the Argo. Look, how bout we say fifteen thou and close on this?
You want me to be honest with you, Les?
Naah, bullshit me, Max.
Okay. Because I enjoyed your films, the early ones. I took this meeting out of respect because I wanted to tell you no' to your face.
Thank you. Very respectful.
You're done, Lester. You've gotta get your cataracts fixed and read the trades. MGM just capitalized for six new films and they're desperate for Sci-Fi. They've already offered me four times what you are.
But see -- it worries me, what you said, and I'll tell you why. A couple weeks back I was sitting in Trader Vic's enjoying a Mai Tai when my pal Warren Beatty came to wish me well and we had a little chat. Seems he was attached to star in Zulu Empire -- which was gonna anchor that MGM slate -- but Warren confided in me that the picture's gone over-budget cause the Zulu extras wanna unionize.
They may be cannibals swallowing each other up but they want health and dental, so the movie's kaput -- which means that MGM deal ain't gonna happen and your script ain't worth the buffalo-shit on a nickel. So. Lester takes some documents out of a folder.
The way this looks to me -- through the cataracts, I grant you -- is that you can either sign here and take ten thousand for your toilet-paper script -- or you can go fuck yourself. Siegel smiles kindly and holds a pen and the contracts out to Klein. Klein takes them.
You know Warren Beatty?
I took a leak next to him at the Golden Globes.
You got kids, Lester?
Two daughters.
You see them much?
I talk to them once a year, maybe.
Why's that?
I was a terrible father.
A son. Lives with his mother in Virginia.
You're divorced?
Taking time off.  He's gotta... stay where he is.
They caught the shah's chief of security trying to get on a plane to Paris.
 War' sounds like Star Wars. Let's use a different word. Mendez closes the door to his private office.
Since the incident, the number of guards at the airport has doubled. Thorough background examinations should be expected.'
I need another week.
You don't have it.
We've got a script. We've got business cards.We've got a poster. If I'm them? It's nothing we couldn't make at home.
I did a movie with Rock Hudson once.
 -- press event and reading... No, I promised Variety exclusive on that one... Mendez is making a list with a PUBLICIST.
Biggest Canadian production in history.' Canadian Gone With The
 I gotta get back to you, Phil. I can't get my own mother a ticket. I had to tell her it was cancelled.
Are you turning people away?
 You know what gets more suckers than a sign that says Brooklyn Bridge For Sale'? Brooklyn Bridge: Approved Buyers Only.'  Philip? You there? Chambers leads us into the main room, leading Tony to a table where JACK KIRBY, 62, comics artist, fusses with large COMIC PANELS of ARGO CONCEPT DRAWINGS spread over a table. Kirby starts to distribute storyboards. Some hold on to them and an ASSISTANT begins putting them up on the board. Mendez looks at them. Impressed. He picks up a drawing of some futuristic-looking vehicles.
Any way to make the chariots look more -- Middle-Eastern -- ?
Mesopotamia... Egypt...
Iran. Kirby takes out a marker and starts to sketch a futuristic-looking desert glider.
Janet from the Times -- You know Johnny Chambers and Lester Siegel. This is Kevin Harkins. He'll tell you a bit about the film -- We leave Mendez with the L.A. Times -- FOLLOWING Siegel -- Jack Kirby's storyboard drawings throughout the room. Four or five ACTORS IN SCI-FI COSTUMES.
Lester. He turns around. NINA, a woman in her early sixties, made up to look younger.
You're gorgeous. You're in the reading?
I'm playing Serksi, the Galactic Witch. BACK TO: Mendez. A Publicist is guiding Mendez toward an anemic-looking man --
(to Mendez,
Rodd from Variety. Kevin Harkins. BACK TO Siegel and Chambers, walking away from NINA.
Keep that fucking space witch away from me.
You know her?
I was married to her. Mendez, now talking to RODD, from VARIETY.
Tehran.
You ever watch the news? Publicist hands Mendez a LASER GUN and a photographer snaps his picture. Siegel walks by, downing one from the bar.
So the title refers to...
The Argo, it's the, y'know, the
... Jason and the Golden Fleece, or...?
Is it the Argonaut? Siegel dsn't know what he's talking about.
No.
Then what ds Argo' mean? And finally Lester's had it -- with his mouth full --
It means Argo fuck yourself.
Let's all take our places for the reading. And we SETTLE ON MENDEZ. He takes a glass of wine from a passing waiter's tray, downs it, and puts it on another WAITER'S tray. We FOLLOW that waiter THROUGH a swinging door, INTO the kitchen and prep area, where a small black and white TV plays...
The fire of hope stopped burning in this galaxy long ago. A HANDSOME LEAD, ACHILLES CRUX, says his line.
Fire the thrusters!!
-- fifty-seven -- fifty-eight -- Mark counts out as Lee Schatz ds push-ups. Bob Anders watches a television in the b.g., subtitled in Farsi.
The old ways are lost, but there is still hope.
We will begin the trials and will carry out the sentences. This MONTAGE: Voice upon voice, image upon image, landing on television sets.
They pull their triggers. But nothing happens. It's a mock execution . The five hostages, after a beat, either scream or collapse.
gravity of it) He's marginalized the moderates now.
A hundred and twelve --
And we have a new champion. Bob Anders looks up from Khomeini, who keeps talking in the b.g., and applauds.
Crane down over the battlefield and hold there...'
... on a single red flower growing from the ruins of the starship in the desert. Fade to black. The End.'
And there is a photo of Mendez from the press event. Smiling and holding a laser gun.
Why'd he do it?
He did it cause he did it.
He saw a covert intelligence officer saying cheese' with R2- D2. They're going with the teachers.
It's a death sentence, Jack.
Well then it's on Engell.
I made thirty pictures. Half of them the pricks upstairs tried to shut me down. Mendez finishes packing, zips up the bag.
My ass is staying right here and running a movie company. Mendez stops zipping as Siegel takes a bottle of Jack and three shot glasses from a drawer.
Argo fuck yourself. They raise to that.
How'd you always get around the pricks upstairs?
There's always another prick one floor higher up.
What did you do to get the meeting?
I used your name. Jack looks to Tony.
You can forget about that time- share in Ocean City, Jack.
Tony and O'Donnell sit in the waiting area, across from a SECRETARY. They look down the hall to see: CIA DIRECTOR ADMIRAL STANSFIELD TURNER, 50s, and SECRETARY OF STATE CYRUS VANCE walk down the hall together, discussing something in hushed tones.
 Brace yourself. It's like talking to those two old fucks on The Muppets.' Vance and Turner enter the room without recognizing them. Mendez and O'Donnell stand up.
A concept drawing from Argo.
Aliens and robots.
Yes, sir.
The four men are gathered in the back of Vance's office, around a table. Over them we see the STATE DEPARTMENT
TURNER is looking at the storyboard.
You're telling me there's a movie office in Hollywood right now that's funded by the Central Intelligence Agency.
Yes, sir.
What's wrong with the bikes again? Vance, with a copy of Comics Week. THE NEXT STAR WARS? Next to it, a photograph from the press event: Mendez holding a laser gun. CANADIAN EPIC WILL BE FILMED IN THE
... you think this -- We tried to get the message
-- this is more plausible than teachers?
One, there are no foreign teachers in Iran anymore --
-- two, we think everybody knows Hollywood people. And everybody thinks they would shoot during Stalingrad with Pol Pot directing if it'd sell tickets.
You don't have a better bad idea than this?
This is the best bad idea we have, sir. By far. Vance and Turner exchange looks.
I'm required to remind you that if you're detained, the agency will not claim you.
Barely claim me as it is.
Your In Case Of's' good?
Just Christine. They don't need to look at one another. A shared understanding.
Guess I should have brought some books to read in prison.
Nah. They'll kill you long before prison. Tony gets out of the car, pulls his bags from the back seat, and slams the door. Headed into the airport.
Bad news, bad news, even when it's good news it's bad news. Christ. (a phone starts
John Wayne's in the ground six months and this is what's left of America.
(picking up the
Studio Six.
We've got a green light. Chambers gives Siegel a thumbs-up.
Keep the office running till you hear otherwise. (this means thank
Argo fuck yourself.
Argo fuck yourself.
-- it was thirty seconds for Christ's sake. To get some air in the yard. I couldn't breathe --
Who saw me go out?
 Miss Hall Monitor. Creeping around with her notebook --
Dad's home. Ken carrying his briefcase, cheerfully oblivious to what he's walked into.
You're getting a visitor.
A man in Scranton's putting a flag on his lawn for every day of captivity.
The six with the Canadians are coming out. Jordan, brought back from Scranton and politics by this, opens the file and looks at it.
 Who signed off on this?
What will be the purpose of your visit to Iran?
Business. Film production. The Consul Official looks at his Canadian passport.
Why didn't you get your visa in Canada?
My boss waited until I was here to send the telex.
Iran is a hundred percent not in a pre-revolutionary state.' End quote. Mendez looks up: a MAN, late 40s-50s with a British accent, is talking to him. PETER NICHOLLS, an Oxbridge type and a very good spy.
Can't be right all the time.
Mr. Harkins.
When'd you get back?
Were you metal detecting?
None left to find. Shah escaped with a 747 so laden with gold bars it nearly didn't make it off the runway.
But you kept busy.
Ferrying out the torture apparatus of our friend's fallen dictatorship. Both these men do this work and share an unspoken understanding. They stop and look up at a MOSAIC on the wall. An ancient rendition of Christ, fashioned before the Muslims took the city and converted this church to a mosque. Nicholls has WHITE AND YELLOW SLIPS OF PAPER with Farsi writing on them in hand. He gives them to Tony.
It's getting worse. Everybody who lands at Mehrabad now fills out one of these.  That slip makes a copy to this one underneath.  Passenger keeps Yellow, Airport keeps White.
When you leave the country, they match them up to verify you came into the country when you said you did.
So if they look, they'll know six people didn't come in with me.
If they look. Nicholls and Tony turn away from the mosaic, surreptitious work now done, and meander toward the middle of the great room.
When you land, you should go straight to the Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance to kiss the ring. Get on record as having applied for a film permit. If they catch you later, at least they'll be confused while they're torturing you... Your biggest problem may be convincing the six of them to go with you. They're foreign service. They're willful. Nicholls takes a picture.
How's June?
Left.
I'm sorry.
She picked out a ring and gave me a choice. She's a Chinese national. If I married her, I'd have to resign, so. You and Christine?
Good. Yeah.
You're working late.
Til the dawn's early light.
You got stamina, Lester. I wanna be you.
You wouldn't be me for long. I'm
The Captain has informed us that we have entered Iranian airspace. Members of our cabin crew will be coming through to collect any remaining alcoholic beverages at this time.
Tony presents his passport to a REVOLUTIONARY GUARD IMMIGRATION OFFICIAL. Official looks at it, Tony hears the sound of a woman screaming in Farsi. Three lanes away, at the outgoing immigration station, a Revolutionary Guard is dragging away the woman's HUSBAND. The Immigration Official stamps Tony's passport -- takes the white form, gives Tony the yellow one -- and waves him through.
This film crew is just yourself?
Six more are joining me today. They're coming from Canada.
You'd like to film at the bazaar?
The bazaar, maybe the palace.
I see. The exotic Orient. Snake charmers and flying carpets.
Mr. Ambassador.
Ken Taylor. He shakes Tony's hand and they start to walk to Taylor's car.
I was expecting more of a G-Man look.
You're thinking of FBI, sir. They get into the car.
These are blank, y'know. The stamps?
I'll take care of that.
How long?
A day to prep them with their cover stories. Two if they need it.
And you'll fly out with them? Tony nods. A distant sound of a crowd outside.
There's something you should know. We think one of our housekeepers figured out who they are. We don't know if we can trust her. Now the noise outside is louder. Taylor turns to the window. Tony joins him.
So sooner is better. They stand listening to the demonstration sounds, echoing over the rooftops of the city.
He got to the embassy. O'Donnell closes the door. Pender, wearing an undone tuxedo, as if he's just been pulled from a formal event. They stay standing.
I can't tell you more than that cause I don't know any more.
 The Times and A.P. found out they're with the Canadians. Somebody in one of the families talked.
Mother of God.
I just put Vance on a plane to take the editors to Le Cirque. He thinks he can get them to sit on it. For now.
Each Houseguest has a copy of the ARGO script.
It's theater of the absurd.
What are the chances?
The chances are good.
What's the number value of good'? 30 percent chance of success? 80 percent?
We just --
What was the objection to picking normal cover identities?
There are no Canadians in the country for normal reasons.
We can't stand up to that. We don't know what the hell movie people do.
That's why I'm here. I'll be with you. This is what I do.
Have you gotten people out this way before?
This would be a first.
... every day they catch another friend of the shah at the airport. Kangaroo trials then firing squads. Just for having American names in their phone books. He puts the Iranian newspaper in front of Mendez.
You've been here an hour and you're asking us to trust you with our lives, Mr. --
Harkins.
Is that your real name? A beat.
No.
We've got orders to close the embassy and go back. There's nowhere for them to stay.
I'm serious, too. This is what?
I saw it in Burma. They get people out. They know how.
Snitches in banana republics. They get them over the border after the coup...
His opinion got us out of the embassy in the first place.
If we go, you need to leave immediately. There's a
Pat and I discussed it. If they catch you at the airport, they come here and we go on trial for harboring the enemy. It's a risk we took.  Can you pull this off?
I don't know.
-- even if they do. They find us here, we're not lying, we're just hiding. We go out there with fake passports, we're spies, period, execution.
So how long do we stay? A month? A year?
That man out there, he's got bad cards, he's gonna lose. If he loses, it's our lives.
 And his life too. Another beat. ANGLES ON the Houseguests.
Your cover identities were created specifically for each one of you. Mendez, now dressed to leave, is handing each Houseguest an envelope.
What I need you to do is memorize everything inside. Who you are, what you are, where you've been. Cora Lijek looks at a document from inside her envelope. A union card for the Canadian Writers Guild with her picture on it.
When we're done, you'll know these so well that you'll dream as these people. Mendez nods at them, and gs. The Houseguests look at what's inside their envelopes -- all except J Stafford, whose envelope remains sealed.
Sir, a telex arrived for you. The BELLHOP hands Tony a piece of paper. He reads it.
On either side of the board: telephone jacks. He detaches the cords from the hotel phone and plugs them into the jacks on the transistor board. It's a phone scrambler.
The Minister of Culture and Guidance has approved your location scout.'
 He will send a representative to meet you and your crew at the Khayyam entrance to the Grand Bazaar tomorrow at 3 PM.'
They called your bluff.
Or maybe they're cooperating.
N.E. says absolutely not. Seven Americans walking the bazaar, you're asking for a riot, it's the
Seven Canadians, Jack.
Never give them multiple shots at a cover. Are they even ready?
They're getting there.
Terrific. There's no prize for Most Improved.'
We are a nation of 35 million and... many of these people are looking forward to martyrdom. Kathy Stafford looks into the room. J stops talking, looks up.
She pleaded with me. Mark, looking to J. This is new.
When it started in the streets nine months ago. She begged for us to leave. She packed our bags. I said, A little longer.' And what I was thinking was, This is a good thing for me. Stay. Show Newsom you've got the balls. Grab for the ring.'
This isn't what we agreed to.
The Houseguests are gathered in the office. Cora hands the telefax to Bob Anders. J Stafford, looking on.
You said a day to learn your covers then straight to the airport.' You said that.
They suspect something?
What I know is we need to act like a movie crew. We go to the bazaar today, we fly out tomorrow. Silent assent among the group. Then J Stafford, sitting with his wife, speaks up --
We won't do it.
He told them there were six of us. They're expecting six.
I'm asking you to trust me.
I don't trust you.
 What's the alternative? This is the ball game, J. What world are you living in?
The one where they're hanging people from construction cranes, Bob. J takes Kathy's hand and gs, leaving Mendez with the others. After a moment --
This one. She gives Bob Anders a Canadian maple leaf lapel pin, which he affixes to his shirt. Cora Lijek paints lighter hair dye onto her hair. The Houseguests are making subtle efforts to disguise themselves.
(at a mirror, quoting
So don't be recognizable, but look exactly like your passport picture.
Not that picture. You won't want to scare them. A nervous smile. Trying to deal with anxiety. J and Kathy Stafford look to each other. Sitting reading newspapers while the other Houseguests prep for the scout. The PHONE starts ringing.
 Hello? A cloud comes over Pat as she listens.
No, there's no one like that here. She hangs up the phone fast, as if it were hot to the touch.
Who was it? Pat shakes her head.
This one, how much? One day, how much?
They turn when they see Tony come in the door. Tony as he steps down into the living room, down the hall
I promise you that if you will play along today, I will get you out tomorrow.
I wish I could believe you, Mr. Harkins.
My name is Tony Mendez. Mendez gs back out to the minivan. STAY WITH J and Kathy.
Then he looks in the rearview and sees one of the back doors open. J and Kathy Stafford board.
Tell me who you are. This recalls attention from the windows.
Mike McEwan, cameraman.
Robert Baker, director.
Timothy Harris, location manager.
Mary Ann Boyd, screenwriter.
Rachel Dewart, production designer. Kathy looks at her husband.
Sean Bissett, associate producer.
Let's make a movie.
A YOUNG MAN IN SUIT WITH NO TIE waits. This is REZA, mid- 20s, a low-level administrator in the Ministry of Guidance. Mendez gets out and they speak and shake hands. The image FREEZES. In a BLACK AND WHITE PHOTOGRAPH. They exchange pleasantries and Reza leads them down a narrow street toward the bazaar.
Bob Anders walks toward the front.
You are the director?
Yes.
I'm sorry?
A film where a foreign bride is brought to Iran, but she dsn't understand the language and customs and there are misunderstandings and laughs.
No.
 Mmmm. Mendez walking toward the back of the group. Lee, the cameraman, is looking through a viewfinder down the alley of the bazaar.
 Yeh.
If I said you were looking through the wrong end of that viewfinder, would I be right? Lee turns the viewfinder around and looks through it again.
Yep.
Mendez talking to Lee from a distance. A zoom, a closer snapshot of LEE. Then of CORA LIJEK, who walks through the bazaar with an open ARGO SCRIPT in her hand. The Revolutionary Guard photographer is taking pictures of each of the Houseguests, picking their portraits off one by one like a sniper.
Ali Khalkali, the revolutionary official, gets out of one of the cars. He's joined by a couple other OFFICIALS and by two armed REVOLUTIONARY GUARDS. Sahar is moving through the garden, she sees the men approach. She gs to greet them at the gate.
(Farsi, from behind
Yes?
Kathy Stafford, the production designer on the scout, takes a Polaroid of a window adorned in gold. The SHOPKEEPER, a 70-ish bazaari, sees her do so. He hurries out of his store, speaking in rapid-fire Farsi at her. The Houseguests stop. Reza speaks to the Shopkeeper.
She's the production designer. Her job is to take photographs. SHOPKEEPER getting more and more heated in Farsi.
He says he did not give you permission to take a photograph of his store. Other BAZAARIS and SHOPPERS are starting to gather. Kathy holds out the Polaroid toward the Shopkeeper.
He can have the photograph. Tell
The Shopkeeper knocks the Polaroid out of her hand.
 He's saying the Shah killed his son with an American gun. Cauldron heating up and --
ON Sahar -- her face impassive -- and then --
A CROWD starts to gather around the group.
Her claustrophobia as the crowd closes in -- an ANGRY BAZAARI WOMAN sticks her finger in Kathy's face --
 Canada... Ca-na-da...
 He says we're the CIA taking photographs to plan the bombing of the city.
Khalkali eyes Sahar, gauging her. She hides her fear well.
As god wills it.
-- and Sahar, so dignified and stony she is almost shaming these men --
Everyone in this house is a friend of Iran. Khalkali makes his decision. He wordlessly turns to go.
They drew you out there to take your picture.
Nobody broke. At the door to the residence, Tony can see Pat Taylor, holding Sahar's hand, both looking spooked as the Houseguests come inside.
Tomorrow they'll be ready. We start to hear the sound of the evening's call to prayer, amplified over a megaphone, in the distance.
Where was your passport issued? Bob Anders dsn't know. ANGLES ON the Houseguests.
Vancouver.
Where were you born?
Toronto.
Toronno like piranha. Canadians don't pronounce the T.
Some border guard's gonna know that?
If you're held for questioning, they'll bring in somebody who knows that.
 Last three Canadian prime minsters.
 Trudeau, Pearson, Diefenbaker.
Good.  Your job on the film.
Producer.
Associate Producer. What's the name of the last film you worked on?
Uh... High and Dry.
Who paid for the movie?
What's your middle name? J Stafford is silent. He looks down to consult the paper in front of him, but before he can, Mendez pulls the paper.
He's an American spy. Shoot him. A beat on Stafford, frustrated --
They'll try to break you by getting you agitated. You need to know your rsum so well that you don't flinch.
(nearly defeated,
You think your little story will matter when there's guns to our heads?
My story's the only thing between you and the gun to your head. A beat. Mendez puts the rsum back in front of Stafford. Kathy looks at her husband: he just isn't good at this.
Let's go again.
Kevin.
Go to black on green. Jack's calling him here, so he knows something's wrong.
What is it?
Go to black on green. Mendez turns knobs on the satellite phone.
It all just changed. They called the game. You've got to come back. ON Mendez, not believing what he's hearing.
 Joint Chiefs are planning a military rescue of the hostages in a month. Delta Force started training to storm the grounds. So if the six of them get brought down there, they won't be held for long.
I never would have exposed them if I wasn't authorized to take them out.
It's over, Tony.
They will be taken. Probably not
LISTEN TO ME. The thinking's changed. Six Americans get pulled out of a Canadian diplomat's house and executed, it's another world outrage. Six Americans get caught playing movie make-believe with the CIA at the airport and executed, it's a national embarrassment. They're calling the operation.
We're responsible for those people.
We're ready to try again.
 I think the most important thing you can do to be ready for tomorrow is rest.
Now the mood among the Houseguests is lighter. Bob Anders, a handful of liquor bottles in his arms, puts them down on a table. Music plays on a record player.
Scorched earth policy tonight. Nothing gets left. Taylor comes in, drink in hand, thoughts heavy, looks at Tony.
So you know.
If we tell them, they'll panic. It's better if you just don't show.
It was always a fucked mission. You came closer than anybody else. Kathy and Cora are cracking each other up. No one sees Mendez take a bottle of Macallan from the table and put it in his bag.
There is a dangling TOTEM from the rearview mirror. It reflects light. He passes a VAN ON FIRE.
It's off. They want us to pack up the office. A beat on Lester. He's devastated but he's not showing it.
They can wait. Let's go get a drink.
Ken Taylor watches in the hall.
 He's late.
HOLD for a long beat ON Tony. Thinking. Then, HE BLOWS OUT THE MATCH.
Yeah.
Somebody is responsible for things when things happen, Jack. I am responsible.
We need to confirm those seven tickets out of Tehran on
N.E. shut that down.
I'm saying it's back on!
I can't do it. It's backstopped pending Executive Branch GO.
What the fuck ds that mean?
Carter's got to say yes for us to get the tickets.
Where's Engell?
He's in a meeting.
Pull him out. 
Sahar's on a bus.
Good. And you two leave right now. Ken Taylor nods. Mendez shakes his hand.
We see Ken's black embassy sedan waiting, driven by a
Mendez pulls away.
(to Gauthier, as he
Get to your flight.
N.E. said NO, this is not a long- leasher...
... watching a show behind ... and it never has been, a one-way whorehouse YOU don't decide if it mirror... gs...
It is going.
You're goddamn close...
Am I goddamn close?
You're goddamn close to the line with me.
Engell just stares O'Donnell down.
The first checkpoint is just to look at your passport.
Your passports came straight from the Canadians, so you're gonna be fine.
Where's the Director?
He's on the plane.
Find White House Chief of Staff.
How would I find him?
We're a fucking SPY AGENCY! FIND
The second checkpoint --
Jordan's in the West Wing. He's not taking calls. A beat on O'Donnell.
Where are his kids?
Where do his kids go to school?
The second is immigration. You'll hand them these. They say you landed two days ago.
These guys are bureaucrats left over from the shah. They can't be bothered to second-guess you.
Pace Academy in Buckhead, Georgia! O'Donnell dials a number.
Yes, it's Mr. Murphy calling from Pace Academy for Mr. Jordan... I'm afraid it IS an emergency...
Third checkpoint is the trap.
It's manned by Revolutionaries. Most of them were educated in the U.S. or Europe.
Or Canada?
They know how many T's are in Toronto.
Hello?
Jack O'Donnell from C.I.
Wait -- WHO -- ?
Tehran Houseguest operation is ready NOW. We don't have the President's go-ahead. They are going to be captured. Jordan stands up with the phone.
(yelling out his
DAVID! Pick up!
Telex on Flash. The telex begins to print, line by line...
Copy D.S.! Confirm the tickets!
I'm sorry, sir. I don't have those reservations... SWISSAIR REP looks at some green text on her screen, hits another button.
My apologies. They just came through. She hits another button and tickets start to print.
 Swissair says they've picked up the tickets.
Get the L.A. office -- tell them to be ready in case they call.
We told them to shut that down! He RUNS toward a phone --
He starts to leaf through the photographs from the bazaar.
Mark Lijek being photographed at the bazaar the previous day.
looks at the black and white still of Mark Lijek, compares it to his diplomatic picture, the first portrait we saw of Mark toward the beginning of the film. MATCH. Khalkali stands up. SHOUTS in Farsi to another Komiteh --
Nothing.
 When did you say you arrived in Iran?
Two days ago.
What was the purpose of your visit?
We were looking at locations to make a film. I'm the director. Immigration Officer pauses and looks up. Looks at the six other faces. He looks every bit as confrontational as Tony acted in rehearsal.
Moradi picks up the phone as Khalkali heads out.
Okay -- Yes -- Okay -- He waves them through. Second checkpoint done.
C'mon c'mon c'mon --
 I'm sorry, we're shooting. He motions for them to wait. A movie -- it looks like a police procedural -- is shooting on the lot between them and the office.
Swissair announces general boarding for Flight 363 to Zurich. Passengers, mostly European businessmen, get up and approach the gate.
Passports. He looks at the Canadian passports and then almost immediately speaks.
You come. He directs Mendez and the Houseguests into the screened- off area. Speaks in Farsi to another Komiteh.
 Purser's telling Swissair they're not on the plane.
They should have boarded already.
 Still no answer in L.A.
A film. Mark mimes turning the rotor of a movie camera. Komiteh #1 dsn't understand.
Sit down. A young man with a beard -- AZIZI, late 20s -- arriving on the scene, speaking in Farsi to the others and then in very good American English. He looks at the six and the face he singles out is J Stafford's.
(harsh, icy; in
You. You had no business in Iran. He motions for J STAFFORD to step forward. Mendez shifts. A tense moment.
they go like this... whoooosh, hmm? They can fly... The people are just farmers, but they rise up and find their courage and defeat the alien king-- Mendez watches. It's a performance. The three young Komiteh are now wide-eyed, pointing, whispering in Farsi, like teenagers around a comic book. Azizi says something to another Komiteh in the room.
(to J Stafford; in
You don't go until we verify.
You can call our office. Mendez hands Azizi his card. STUDIO SIX FILMS. Kevin Harkins. A 213  phone number.
Going again please! We're
I'm sorry, pally. We're just gonna be in the movie. Call my agent.
Sir. SIR! Siegel and Chambers walk through the shot toward the Argo office.
 Studio Six Films.
May I speak to Mr. Kevin Harkins --
He's out of the country on a location scout. Can I take a message?
No message.
Swissair announces final boarding of Flight 363 to Zurich. All passengers should be at the gate at this time.
The three young Komiteh look at the drawings, then at J Stafford. Silence for a moment.
Our gift to you. From our film. Komiteh #1, who speaks enough English to understand, translates to the others. They forget their revolutionary mission for a second, happy with their gift. They'd high-five if they could. They're kids. Komiteh #1 motions for the Houseguests to go.
A Swissair Rep is closing the gate to Flight 363. She looks up to see the Houseguests and Mendez hurrying through the terminal, headed toward her. She holds the gate, speaks in German into a walkie, and --
The Komiteh search the house. Khalkali gets on the phone.
The DRIVER puts the bus into gear. It dsn't go. He shakes his head. This goddamn thing. Shifts gears again. Now it gs.
Ladies and gentlemen, from the flight-deck. We're looking at a brief delay -- Passengers groan a bit as they read paperbacks or International Herald Tribunes. Mark Lijek's arm is around Cora. Lee Schatz is moving his mouth in what looks like a prayer. Kathy Stafford's fingers shake as she holds an arm rest. J Stafford tries to stay her hand. Mendez is sitting looking out the window toward the terminal.
He gently releases the throttle lever.
He reaches the METAL BARS outside and can't get past. He CALLS INTO THE WALKIE.
We have wheels up. He starts to punch the air. O'Donnell stays his arm.
Wait.
Ladies and gentlemen, it is our pleasure to announce that alcoholic beverages are now available, as we have cleared Iranian airspace. The Houseguests shout and embrace and celebrate. Bob Anders high-fives Lee Schatz, then the other Houseguests. Mark Lijek, crying, embraces Cora. Kathy Stafford is laughing. She kisses her husband's hand. Some of the other passengers look up from their newspapers, annoyed at this Canadian fuss.
They're CLEAR! Cheers in the Pit. O'Donnell embraces Malinov.
I'm sorry, sir. You need to sit down. But J dsn't pay attention to the Flight Attendant. He extends his hand to Mendez. Who takes it. A moment between them.
Sir? J gs back to his seat. HOLD ON Tony Mendez.
It's history, is what it is. History plays out first as farce, then as tragedy.'
The quote's the other way around.
Who said it?
Marx.
Groucho?
Karl.
You are admitted to the Republic of Iraq. He closes the passport and the Woman turns around: it is
(a couple of beers
We are the good guys!
Six down, fifty to go. Call the Times, nail it to the fucking door. The CIA are the good guys.
The Canadians are the good guys.
-- we're not greedy -- them too --
Only. Canada takes the credit, or they'll retaliate against the hostages. Great Satan wasn't involved. No CIA.
Is that right, Jack?
Involved in what? We're as surprised as anybody. Thank you, Canada. Jack raises a glass of Scotch and takes a drink.
Finally, a sliver of really good news.
It was a simple operation, really.
The six fled the country posing as Canadian diplomats. They simply walked away. Camera flashes, wild cheers. Banners: WELCOME HOME
Sooner or later, here or anywhere in the world, Canada will pay for this violation of the sovereignty of Iran. ( News conference
She said, Why couldn't we pull off something like that?' You know what I said to her?
Wha'd you say to her?
I said, Argo fuck yourself.'
And I left my autograph book at home. His Eminence called me. He wants to see you.
He wants to fire me himself.
He wants to give you the Intelligence Star. You're getting the highest award of merit of the Clandestine Services of these United States. Ceremony's two weeks from today. Mendez stops walking. A beat.
If they push it a week, I can bring Ian. That's his winter break.
The op was classified so the ceremony's classified. He can't know about it. Nobody can know about it.
They're gonna hand me an award, then they're gonna take it back?
If we wanted applause, we would have joined the circus.
I thought we did. O'Donnell claps Tony on the shoulder. Tony walks towards the entrance and Jack heads to his car.
(yelling to Tony; an
Carter said you were a great American.
He didn't say.
Chambers is disassembling the office. Boxes packed. Everything now off the walls. A PRODUCER walks by, sees Chambers in the door.
What happened to your picture?
It's in turnaround. He turns out the lights.
Hi.
Hi. They look at each other. Before she can speak, he's embraced her. Holds tight. It's something in between romantic and fraternal. Not reconciliation, necessarily, but warmth. She reciprocates. It feels right, and good.
A scene of the Old West on a television.
Ian is watching 1973's sci-fi Western Westworld in the bedroom. Ian dsn't have to describe the scene to his father this time. WIDEN to see that his head is on a pillow on Tony's lap.
