 Houston, I can't get this thing to work...
 It just isn't working. Any suggestions?
 We got the top scientific minds in the world working on  this.  Try "whacking" the thing.
 This things really acting up tonight. We should find out  if anyone else knows about this.
 Call N.A.S.A
 I got mission control....!
 Uhh hi, I'm an astronomer in Kentucky, and I was wondering  if you guys had seen some strange activity in the southern middle quadrant of  the asteroid belt between Antares Major and Epsilom Scorpio....
 Can you go secure?
 I am secure. Go ahead, General.
 Twelve minutes ago. Now you know what happened to your shuttle.
 Fly a team up to New York. Contact every Space Watch  facility in the world. We gotta find what part of the sky this is coming from.
 Him.
 Him.
 J.P.L., please. Search  co-ordinates...
 In it's simplest terms? The end of Mankind. One asteroid, one mile wide or bigger, impacts the Earth with the equivalent force of all the  nuclear weapons in the  world, times a thousand. Half our population will die within 24  hours from tidal waves and heat pulses. The other half won't be so lucky. In the  end, it will be men  eating the flesh of other men.  It's not the end of the  world, General, the world - Earth - will still be here. But there will be no  life - maybe cockroaches and  some resilient strands of bacteria.
 With the worst guidance system in the world. Their Mars Probe in '96 was found by a pygmy tribe in Africa.
 Their launch date is set for next month.
 To when?
 What are they gonna do, glue, spit, and scotch tape it together? Even if they get a nuke out to the asteroid, a surface nuclear detonation is not  going to work.  The only way is to split the thing in half and hope the two pieces  slide past us.
 Well, this has been a tough day. The media's all over this. They're going to get nothing. Telling the public we might all be dead in  eighteen days achieves nothing but panic.
 Mr President, finding this speck in the sky is a very hard thing to do unless you have the exact co-ordinates. There are only twelve telescopes  powerful enough  to see it right now. You've got a full moon goin' for four days -  makes it all but impossible to see.. Once these things draw closer to Earth, you'll never keep a lid on  this. No way.
 "A" rig's acting up. The drill string kicked twice this morning, gave Chick a nasty bruise in the head.
 What?  What?  A.J.?
 Chick, rig up another pipe.  NOW, NOT TOMORROW.
 Good plan, Harry.
 There's your oil, gentlemen. Now get the hell  off my rig.
 Hole Number Seventy-Six!
 Dan Golden, meet Mister Harry Stamper, the finest oil driller in the world.
 Nineteen Ninety-One. Directional drilling through two miles of anthracite. They also said that couldn't be done. You did it. Incredible.
 Ninteen Ninety-Three. The first hole over seventy thousand. Once again they said --
 We built this arm to mine ice from the moon -- greatest discovery in space in thirty years.
 Harry. Let's figure this out.
 And I never want to pay taxes again.
 Now about my crew.
 Okay, who?
 , Max  , TITO, and ROCKHOUND  are riding in high style. Chick is hanging out of the sun roof with his shirt off. Radio's on full blast. Rockhound's pouring whiskey from the  fancy decanters.
 Give me nickels on Miami, Washington, San  Diego, and Green Bay.  Quit whining. Last thing I need is to be friends  with my bookie. 
 Look, when the entire Mexican Army had Butch and the Sundance Kid trapped in that Hacienda, did they wait to die? Hell no. They went out guns  blazing. I live  by the code of that movie, man.
 I might add that to get us up there they're going to have  to strap our asses on one of those rockets. That means fire, involuntary shit  release, and a slew of other stuff I can't hang with.
 We need to know what substances you've recently  ingested.
 Drugs.
 No way, lady. I came here to drill.
 I assume you're joking.  Your men show  aggression, extreme maladjustment to their surroundings, anti-social behaviour  --
 Failed. Failed. Really failed.  Under the circumstances...  They're the finest physical  specimens I've ever seen.
 We're screwd.
 So, my wife and little girls' lives are in their hands, sir?
 With my stars came the power to be blunt. These  drillers are not trained for this, Dan.
 If they can't drill this hole, my men are going to take  over.
 But we're approved.
 Each is a combat decorated officer  and among the finest men and women we have in the service. Pay attention to  them.
 We're going to go pound some brews where they have a lot of sweaty, naked women. You in?
 No. I got to take care of something.
 You look like big foot.
 Then maybe you'd consider telling Tommy I'm not a...salesman. It's good to see  you. You look really  beautiful.
 We're in astronaut training.
 Where' it headed? How big?
 This says that the asteroid came from the  Southern Hemisphere.
 If you're not up to it,  then walkout of that door.
 From all of your intel, the deepest fault line is here. This is my sweet spot. If I can get a clean hole in there, She'll blow in half....
 You have eight hours. Remember it. You must  detonate by this point or,  the two halves will hit us.
 Go.
 We're in. Run the simulation.
 How's she look?
 Negative, A.J. Don't exceed ix thousand. Not on this run.
 Negative, A.J. A.J. increases the RPM's. The gauge starts to rise. The N.A.S.A. Brass shifts  uneasily in their seats. They're not accoutomed to seeing their astronauts  disobey orders.
EMPTY_LINE
 I pick my own  team.
 When I was about your age, I was in Galveston, Texas. I scraped together some money, bought some old equipment, a little land. I set up a rig  and drilled my first hole. Then I sat there and watched her soak up the sun for six  months - waiting for this baby to pop. Everybody told me to quit. I wouldn't  listen. My wife ran off with a drill-rigger, left me with Grace. Everybody in town thought I  was a fool. But I stayed with it. And in the last hour of the last day, she  popped. She spit out that black gold and I danced in it like a wild Indian.  I  captured the magic  This is the last piece of pipe that struck  gold that day.
 Here, take it up there.
 Keep an eye on A.J. for me.
 Yeah?
 Multi-track C.D. player.  Anti-gravity hand washer, utensil washer, and micro-wave oven.  We worked  hard to make the X-71 feel  more like home.
 T-minus six minutes and counting.
 Roger, Independence and Freedom, auto ground launch  sequencer commencing.
 AIRBORNE!
 Thirteen months, seven days.  What the hell has he been  doing all by himself?
EMPTY_LINE
 Lev, the pressure's climbing.
 Leak. Run.
 LEAK! RUN!
 E-vac. E-vac. Unhook the shuttles. Move!
 Seal door.
 Shut the doors and fire her up!
 Full thrusters!
 How beautiful it is. Thinkin' about all that oil I  sucked out and spit into the air.Funny how a man can live 46 years and realize  he ain't been doing the right thing.
 Director Golden! DIRECTOR GOLDEN!
 My goodness, look at that thing....
 How we doin', Freedom, over?
 Entering Dark Side, Freedom, and counting: ten, nine, eight, seven...
 Time to suck it up, people. Just  pretend you're on the big roller coaster at Disneyland...  ...times a  hundred....
 Houston, you gotta see this to believe it....
 What is it, Willie?
 I lost left thruster! No control! I have no control!
 Houston, it's Freedom. We just landed on this son-of-a-bitch, over.
 What's the status of Independence?
 We lost her.
 Harry, Harry, Jesus Christ, this can't happen....
 Here. Fire up the Bad Boy bit.
 Hit it, Chick.
 No. It's been melted. Forged rather. I've only seen  this once - at a volcano in Hawaii.  You're drilling into a  big slab of cast-iron, Mr. Stamper.
 "Don't tell me what you can't do, tell me what you can." Remember that, Stamper? Go faster.
 Sir, the bird can't fly.
 Well, you need to get it fixed unless you want to die along with that asteroid.
 Yes, sir.
 And, I don't want those drillers knowing about this. They have enough to worry about just drilling the damn ole.
 Colonel Sharp, this is Chief of Staff Collinswood. Have  Pitts and Fisk prepare to detonate that nuke on the surface. Too many lives are  at stake here. Have them standing by.
 Freedom, come in, over. Freedom, come in, over....  Freedom...?  It's you and me.
 That did not sound good.
 We need the second Armadillo.
 That hole better be dug in two hours, or we're detonating. Whether you're on this godforsaken rock or not!
 What is going on up there?
 A lot of people are die....
 Firmly.
 IF you're gonna pull this off, we have to have a little talk about time...and temperature. Zero Barrier's in two hours.
 Harry, your suits are good upto 150 degrees Celsius....
 We didn't anticipate you being on the asteroid so long. The clock is ticking...
 Three hundred and fifty degrees.
 Let's take a look.
 This outta cut into a sweet wedding ring.
 With this I can rebuild my MIR.
 Hop on the back. Get our weight distributed better.
 And why to do this?
 We got that sunrise, Harry. These bits are gonna fry up......
 Let's move it.....let's go, guys.
 GET THE TRANNY OUTTA THERE! WE LOSE THE TRANNY, WE'RE DEAD MEN!!
 Go Max, go Max, get the last bolt....!
 We have good news folks. A.J. and the Russian just showed up. No other survivors.
 Thousand and three, Harry. With a half hour to spare.
 Maybe I'll ask her again later....
 Oh yeah, Golden?
 Go ahead, Harry.
 A.J., we need you. I need everything you got.
 Stop...!
 The remote's shot.  It'll have to be manually  detonated.
 ...manually detonate the device.
 I'd trade places with any one of you. But we need two people  to fly this mother back. So, we either all stay or you guys draw.
 I can't watch this.
 Sit down, Chick.
 You're going to need some magic in the world. You can marry her, A.J.
 She's always going to be my little girl.
 HARRY!!
 Grace. I...  This is so hard for me. I don't have....
EMPTY_LINE
EMPTY_LINE
EMPTY_LINE
 Sharp, I NEED A SOLUTION!
 WE HAVE JUST THE SAME SHIT PART IN RUSSIA!! SOMETIMES IT NOT WORK SO WE HIT!! YOU GOTTA GIVE IT WHACK!! WHACK!! HIT!!
 That means we might die too....
 The new courses are....they're gonna miss us!
