font-family:Courier New; font-weight: normal; margin-top:0in; margin-right:1.2in; margin-bottom:0in; margin-left:0.8in; text-transform:uppercase; <b> </b><b>} </b> #act { font-family:Courier New; font-weight: normal;margin-top:0in; margin-right:1.8in; margin-bottom:0in; margin-left:0.8in }
I'm lost Betsy, and you know me - I don't wear lost well - wait, wait I'm losing you...  I'm pulling over before you disappear forever.
Sign? I was looking for a sign? There's no...
 Yes... I took the first ..... no, no, I'm listening...
Wait, I got it - yeah. No don't call me.. right, unless you hear from Atlanta. And fax me the designs - I want to tinker with them a bit more ... I'm going to rest - bye - I'll see you in a week.
Oh p-lease, Whitney.
we have a full weight room, lifecycles, stairmasters, a spa, yoga, aerobics, spin classes...
I'm really just looking for a quick fix, here. Do you have anything that just involves lying down?
A massage.
Great. I'll have one a day. Not too early.
Virgil, Oh God..., right there. Yes.
Yes there - a bit more...  --wait - wait, you can't stop - one more minute - noo!
Sorry, Susan - time's up. I've got someone waiting.
Virgil, you have to come live with me.
And what would your husband say? Amy, you out there? - c'mon in.
That's it - I'm getting a divorce.
Hey, Amy, I'm Virgil - why don't you get ready - hop up on the table.
Sounds like you're a genius at this.
 That's right.. Mozart, Einstein, Virgil Anderson, massage therapist. Now I'm going to start working somewhat deep - you let me know if you want anything deeper.
Deeper is good - where I come from, all you get is shallow.
I like that - deep it is.
First time in Pinecrest?
Came in late last night.. missed the town completely.
If you came in broad daylight, you could still miss the town completely.
Too much compute? work.
Uh-huh.
Bad chair - you should think about a change.
 Absolutely.
Too deep?
No.. ..... just right.
I - I'm sorry - it was too deep...
No - it.. It's not you.. It's just things have kinda built up, I don't know why I'm crying.. look, this is embarrassing...
Don't be embarrassed - you obviously needed it. We should stop for today.
Yeah, thanks. You always make the girls cry.
Not since grade school. I'm going to go now - unless you'd like me to stay.
Could you - just for a minute?
Of course, whatever you need.
You ever feel like a Martian's invaded your entire body?
Every day.
Virgil?
 Hey Caroline, you look incredible today.
 Quite a compliment, Virgil. See ya tomorrow.
See ya.
Virgil - wait...
Virgil, hey.
Yes.
It's Amy - Amy Tremont.
Of course - you were sleeping, didn't want to wake you.
Yes thanks - you're the skater, right - I saw you last night, coming in. Pretty mean slapshot. You play on some team or something?
Yeah, something. You a hockey fan?
Always liked it - never get around to seeing a game. But I loved to skate as a kid - unfortunately I have two left feet.
 They look perfectly OK with me.
I love the view you get here.
Same here - I never get used to it.
Well, this is my ride. Hey Tommy, my man.
Virge.
Well, I just wanted to apologize for back there - blubbering like that - I was just in a weird place.
And now...
Now, I'm fine - so I wanted to thank- you. For what you did.
For making you cry.
No, I made me cry - and you handled it great - didn't freak or anything.  Is my mascara smeared or something?
 No. Why?
You're just looking at me funny.
Virgil - lets move it.
As I said earlier - I just never get used to the view.
See you tomorrow.
See you... oh my God.
What?
You're, you're -- I'm so sorry.
 Hey, you already apologized once - no need to overdo it. Bye now.
Get of f the couch, Sophie.
Some seeing eye dog - more like sleeping eye dog.
Met a girl today - nice voice - followed me out of the building.
No she wasn't a stalker.
Sophie's just worried about you - she watches too many horror movies.
Hey, you're here - so how are the kids today?
The usual - need a lot of attention. So who's the girl?
From the spa. I made her cry.
You haven't done that since--
-- grade school.
 That's what I told her. Coke?
I'm fine. Your dinner's ready - chicken's at 3 o'clock - rice is at...
6 o'clock, peas at 9 o'clock and news at 11.
 One day I'm going to switch them on you.
And one day I'll play forward for the New York Rangers.
Or a new sister.
I'd work on the jokes.
You want to watch some hockey?
 You want to grade some spelling tests?  I'll be next door you need me.
You know this girl - for one moment - she actually thought I could  I'm not kidding.  And she had this great voice - relaxing - soft like a breeze through  Wonder what she thinks about "blind dates."
DAMMIT!
Coming!
Virgil..?
My turn to apologize. I should have told you I was blind it wasn't fair.
That's OK. You want to come in - I just got out of the shower - give me a minute to get changed?
 Sure, I promise I won't look.
Anyways, I was in the neighborhood -- actually the whole town's my neighborhood -- and since you've never been to our illustrious village, I thought maybe we could go into town - see what we see.
See what we see?
Figure of speech
You mean right now, tonight?
Great - I'm blind and you're deaf - what a pair.
... the Mechanic at the top of the street is Doug - smokes too much - but a good guy. Three steps down is Carlson's hardware - he's got a laugh like a donkey - we sometimes listen to games together - he's a Devil's fan. And just up ahead should be Grady's junk shop - he calls it "antiques"... Smells like junk. I'd hate to see what it looks like
 Hey Nancy.
Hey Virgil - got that book in for you.
Nancy's our librarian, brings in any braille book I want.
 The guy's nuts about the pyramids - anything he can get his hands on...
Thank-you Nancy - you should get your groceries home - your ice cream's melting.
Nice place - you seem to know everyone here.
Moved here when I was eight. My family figured it would be a good place for me to grow up. Tell me what you see.
Well, there's a good structure to the town - genuine lines, good use of space. To be honest I'd find a better balance to a lot of these buildings. But that's me.
What's you?
The architect in me - can't leave well enough alone. Art school in college - I made the arms for the Venus DeMilo.  see, the Venus De Milo has no arms and...
 I know the Venus De Milo has no arms, and the Mona Lisa has this captivating smile and David doesn't wear a fig leaf.
How do you...
I may not have been a lot of places - but I read about things, then make an image up here -- --that works for me.
This is the end of the street. We should turn back.
What about past the end of the street? What's out there?
 Nothing.
No - there's an old run down building off to the side...
Must be the old firehouse. It had a fire so they shut it down. Honest to God.  What else do you see?
A wall of shrubs - a field with an interesting configuration of trees.
Tell me how you see it.
 OK, sure. Let's see - long and elegant. Like -- like a woman dancing with two lovers, trying to decide which one she loves.
What?
It's just - the image you just gave me - "Dancing trees. - I like that.
We should go - it's starting to rain.
 There's a bit of a breeze but--
I can't believe how fast it happens...
Virgil?
You like rain - I love the rain.
 What were you just doing there?
Listening - the rain - it brings out the contours of everything, gives life to a room I can't see.
You hear it?...on the roof dripping down the walls on every side. On the right, on the drainpipe, it's drumming with a deeper, steadier sound - - like a timpani - echoing across the room - tells me the room is large - open. You feel it - in your chest? On the left, the rain says... ...a fire escape, with it's own rhythm - ping - ping. Then listen - there...  --what's that - over there...?
Looks like it's...
No, listen for it - not what it looks like - what it becomes. Come here.
Now just listen to it - shut out everything but that sound - do you hear it?
Yes - there - it's soft - like a shimmer
The wind blowing the rain against a window.
 Like a cymbal. It's like our own percussive symphony, isn't it?
The world is invisible to me - with my touch it comes alive. But only one thing at a time. But when it's raining, I feel everything at once. Sometimes, I wish it could rain inside rain all around us.
 "Einfuehlung."
What?
Einfuehlung - it's an architectural term. It means to share an empathy. Been a long time since I felt that.
You're cold, we should go.
No, I'm fine, really. It was just something passing through me - can't explain it - a good thing.
What you just showed me  how I feel - makes me smile.
I see it now. Thank-you.
I thought after yesterday, you'd never get up on my table again.
You kidding? today, I'm looking for a complete nervous breakdown.
I love a challenge.
Virgil's hands on the small of her back - something amazingly sensual about how he works her muscles. Amy speaks to him in low tones - in a state of complete relaxation.
Can I ask how long you've been blind?
Of course, most people avoid the subject. You tell them you're blind and they act surprised. "You're blind? Reallv? I didn't know - you hide it so well." And then they wave their hand in front of your face just to make sure.  It started when I was a little over a year old.
 You see shadows?
No. Congenital cataracts. And a case of retinitis pigmentosa thrown in for good measure. This area needs to loosen up.
I think you're doing it.  No bright lights, nothing?
I'm blind as a bat. Actually, blinder 'cause they emit sonar all the time. I don't have a sixth sense, I just don't have the fifth one. I can't hear things in Vermont, can't smell if you're mad at me, and, no - I don't know Helen Keller, Ray Charles or Stevie Wonder.
You say something?
No, I just - this feels nice - too nice.
You're very good.. at what you do.
Thank-you.
You enjoy it.
At times. Some clients make it more enjoyable than others.
And this client...
Is very, very...
What?
Sorry - it's time. I've got Mr. Ketchum coming in next - all two hundred pounds. Sorry - I felt like we were just getting started.
Thank-you. For last night as well - love to do it again.
How about I cook dinner then, tonight.
I'd like that.
Amy
Virgil - it's Amy. I - I can't make dinner - I'm really sorry - an emergency came up - they're dragging me back to New York.
Oh. Yeah. Anything serious?
The project we were working on was rejected - could go down the drain. I'll deal with it quick - I'd like to come back.
Yeah. Good. Well. I'll be here.
-DAMN IT!!!
Shit - that was stupid.
I'm just saying there seems to be something missing.
Absolutely Mr. Falk - something lj missing - we realize that now. We just need some time to figure out what.
Fine - but you all know what kind of schedule we're on here?
 And budget. Yes sir. Don't worry, we won't let you down.
Don't say it, I know. You were never happy with the design.
I wasn't going to say that.
But you'd have tinkered with it till the job went away. So now we've got him hooked, you've got your second chance.
Look at these site photos - see those trees - we were going to get rid of them - let's incorporate them into the design use what's natural about the location.  And by the way - the 53rd St. lobby - coming back from Pinecrest, I came up with a new addition - add some life to that place.
OK -- what's going on here? We sent Hydra the three headed monster off a few days ago and got back Mary Poppins in return.
What? I can't have a couple of ideas.  Fine, you want to know - I met a guy.
Too modern for me.
Sit down.Betsy. We're all friends here. So - spill the beans.
Nothing to spill - he's a good guy - smart, funny, blind... DUNCAN Whoa, whoa - wait a minute - Blind!? Like tap-tap, white cane blind? Come on Amy - I mean, I know you like challenges, hell you married me - but...
I knew you'd be understanding.
 No, no I am. You're right, this is none of my business anymore - but a blind guy? If you're lonely - in my. opinion -- get a puppy.
Duncan, don't be a jerk.
You still work here.
He's just jealous.
So much for the "we're all friends here" idea.
Everybody's gone for the day.
Thanks. You go ahead - I'm just finishing up something here.
What? I just want to know a little more about what's wrong with him.
 Amy? Friend to friend?
Shoot
I hate to admit it but I agree with Duncan on this one. AMY  Don't shoot. BETSY He makes sense sometimes. My father had a problem a few years back with severe cataracts. Do you have any idea what you're getting into?
You ever listened to rain - I mean really listened?
This like that smell the roses thing?
 I've spent the last five years of my adult life with a man who has the emotional content of a soap dish. The only time I saw him cry was doing our tax return three years ago.  I need more than that, Betsy. For once in a long, long time I feel like I can breathe again. Just the way he touches me I know I found someone I can connect with.
Ah, here we go.
No, no. I can tell he's sensing everything about me with a simple touch. He listens to my every word as if it's the only sound on the planet - I feel like even though he can't see me, he knows everything about me. He just moves me - does that sound crazy.
 Does he have a brother?
Wayne Gretzky, look out.
Sorry -- sorry. Didn't mean to scare you.
Amy?!
I said I'd come back.
How long ... how long have you been...?
Watching you? Just got here - couldn't find you at the spa - took a chance you'd be here. You're very good.
Skated since I was a kid. My dad taught me - wanted me to play pro one day. How do you like my pond? AMY It's beautiful.
Describe it for me. AMY OK. Let's see. Like cool blue silk - you know blue?
I think so - keep going.
Blue silk stretched tight across a bowl - surrounded by white jacketed sentries of trees on the horizon, protecting it from the outside world.
Horizon's a tough one.
What?
Never understood horizon - if touch it - don't know what it that's OK I liked the rest of picture.  You want to skate?
Sorry, I didn't bring my skates.
Don't need them. Come on step hold of my stick.
Excuse me?
 Hockey stick. Here.
OK. Now hold on for balance. I used to do this with Jennie when we were kids.
Look out - we're running out of ice.
You OK?
Fine. Never been dumped so fast in my life.
Me, dump you? No way. Stay where you are - I'll come to you - just keep talking.
What do I say?
 Anything - how'd you become an architect?
God - let's see - I was in college - art school - a little aimless - and I met this guy -. an architect - opened up a new world to me. I liked the structure the control - finding problems, coming up with solutions - when I graduated - we started a company together - on impulse got married - which was crazy - divorced a year ago - but we're still partners.. which must seem even crazier.
You'd think I meant to do that. A patented move.
 This is tough.
What?
I bat my eyelashes, toss my head just right, and there's this very sexy thing I do with my eyes - then realize none of it matters to you.
It doesn't matter. Tell me what you look like.
I.. .1 don't know I'm...
Wait. Let me.
Eyes, mouth, chin, cheek.. you are very beautiful.
Thank-you. So are you - more than I could describe.
So -- that's what a blind date is.
Hello?
Hello.
I'm Jennie, Virgil's sister. And you are..?
Jen, this is Amy Tremont.
I was just at the market Virgil, picking up a few things before school - and I thought you might like some...
 Apples and bananas. Amy sees the fruit on the counter - impressed.
He's being a show-off, Amy - I always bring him these.  The apples are on the bottom shelf...
At two o'clock. Oranges at 10. I know, thanks.
Amy -- you in town long...
Virgil?
I'm fine.
No you're not - you're bleeding.  First lesson with a blind man, Amy - don't change anything - it's too dangerous
 I'm sorry - I didn't know...
It was my fault. I'm OK.
 Goddamit, Jennie - I said I was OK - leave me alone!
I've got parent meetings tonight - there's dinner in the freezer - left corner.  Nice to have met you, Amy.
Me too - and again - I'm sorry.
She seemed ... nice.
She seemed jealous.
Your leg is still bleeding.
It'll stop - happens all the time. Welcome to my world. We hold on Amy - taking this in:
Let's see if I can get this right. Chicken's at three - salad at seven - vegetables at ten.
 Very good - thank-you.
This is nice. They do this every weekend?
Every Friday - for the guests leaving. Supposed to make them want to come back.
 Love the music - Gershwin - makes you want to...
You like dancing?
Hmmm? Yeah - don't do it much.  Chicken's good.
Nothing like a good pat of fat. What do you say we dance?
No, really, I'm fine...
Come on
Lead on.
Different piece - maybe we should...
You kidding - take my hand.
You have to teach me that move.
Betsy - you were telling me about your father, his cataracts - you said he had a problem. How is he now?  Doctor - Dr. Aaron? - do you have his number?
Virgil, I just got some great news.
 The Atlanta project?
No, no - I was talking to my assistant this morning - her father had these severe cataracts...
 Oh. Really.
She put me in touch with a Dr. Richard Aaron - the guy's the leading eye surgeon on the eastern seaboard - he's been working with techniques - I don't know all the jargon - but I spoke to him earlier on the phone at the Institute...
You called this guy?
 I told him all about you - he just faxed me back - he'd love to get a look at your eyes - he thinks maybe, mavbe - there might be a chance of reversal.
I don't get it - am I missing the sign that says it's help the handicapped week.
I thought you'd be excited. What's the problem?
No problem. That's the whole point here Amy - there is no goddamned problem.
Hey Virgil.
Amy, right?
I'd like to talk to you if I could -- about Virgil.
Something wrong?
Sort of. There's something I don't understand. You see I spoke to a doctor who's apparently doing breakthrough work on cataracts -  - but when I brought it up to Virgil he acted as if...
What don't you understand?
If I was blind almost all my life -- and there was even a remote possibility I could see - I'd jump at it.
When there's something you've adapted to, accepted - you'd just want to change it without even thinking about it?  We're very comfortable here, Amy. Virgil has everything he needs.
I thought just maybe he'd like to not be falling over things for the rest of his life. Look, I see...
 Yes you do and Virgil doesn't. He spent the first eight years of his life having his eyes prodded, pierced and poked by doctors, faith healers, spiritualists, shamans and medicine men. My father had them lined up out the door. It hurt and disappointed us all and it almost killed him. He doesn't need to go through that again. Now - maybe you understand.
No, no - why - why?!
I can't believe you're doing this to me.
What - Virgil?
Sophie - stop it. Amy? C'mon in - it's just the Rangers. I could check better than these guys today.
They lost?
I prefer to think of it as not winning. I thought you would have been long gone after that outburst from my evil twin brother. We've had him committed you know. Rikers Island - hard time.  Can I get you something - - Coke - beer?
No - I - I'm fine. I just wanted apologize for stomping around in life like Bigfoot today.
Amy, you see the big tree outside? How far is it from my front porch? AMY Guessing, about thirty feet.
To you. But to me, it's fourteen steps exactly. Fourteen steps and I arrive right where I want to be. But -- if I run or rush, I'll lose count and slam into it.
I'm sorry. Told you - can't leave well enough alone. I - I guess I should get back, start to pack... VIRGIL Rushing into trees again?
You know this dinner - this is really quite...
Ordinary?  It's an acquired taste - trust me. Jennie thinks it's the only way I'll know where my food is. But I have a secret weapon.  Hot sauce! Let's you know you're eating something - like some.
AMY That's OK - I'll do it. Don't want to overdo it.
Virgil - I have to go home tomorrow...
Wait, wait - you smell that?
No - what?
The winter pines - it's so strong at night - drifts on the wind - wait - hear the breeze then...
There.
Amy?
I'm here - trouble sleeping.
C'mere.
Everything alright?
Yeah, yeah. Morning - Look, something I want to say...
The leaving thing - I know - hate it too.
The other night - when we were dancing - being with you - I felt different - special - I don't know - whole.
That was whole?
 Just for a second I felt like I could see you - all of you.  What you said about this Doctor, this eye guy - I know how important it is to you...
 Are you sure you want to do this?
We're just going to talk to the guy - what could it hurt? Off Amy's smile:
You're going to love the city - so many things to see.
 Waitwaitwait - he hasn't said he can even do anything yet.
I know I just feel good about this. (Amy looks to him - sees him feeling the light against his face) Virgil, before you lost all sight, do you remember seeing anything at all?
Yeah, I do. I was just a baby when it happened - but there is one thing.  Something ... puffy. That's all I remember about it. Everyone says it's "clouds," but I know I had it in my hands - so it couldn't be clouds. This puffy thing - that was something special - it's stayed with me all these years - I don't know why.
OK - we're done.
Some good news. You have grade 4 posterior subscapular cataracts.
And this is the good news?
Good news in that I should be able to remove them with little or no damage to your cornea.
So -- what does that mean - they're gone - then what?
The cataracts are acting like a curtain - covering the window of sight. If the disease to the retina is reduced as much as I think it is - there's a very good possibility we can give you sight.
Sounds expensive.
 We feel there's an opportunity for us all here - I think I can get the institute to pick up the bill.
So. Say you remove the cataracts - do you have any idea what kind of vision I'd have?
At this time - no. Unfortunately the cataracts are not allowing me to see the retinal wall. I can't tell how advanced the retinitas pigmentosa has become. VIRGIL So you're suggesting an operation that may or may not be successful.
But there is a chance he could regain his sight.
There have been a few cases of restored vision in adulthood to a patient blind since birth.  The operation is delicate, I'll admit - but nothing as invasive as what you went through as a child. Of course there is always some risks with any operation - infection, swelling - long shot stuff. I would do both eyes at the same time - it's basically out patient surgery. Virgil - an exhale of air. A lot to take in.
What if it doesn't work? What if I have the operation - with all it's risks - and you remove the cataract - and it doesn't work.
 It would be evident that you will never be able to see.
What do you think?
That's what I need - to think.
This is my place - there's a park across the street and...
Ethan!
Sorry - my mom won't let me go outside till she gets home from work.
Well, if the super catches you playing ball in the hall, he'll have a coronary.
A what?
Never mind. Ethan, this is my friend Virgil.
Hey, Ethan
 Are you blind?
Yeah.
Cool. See ya.
 Virgil...
Hey, the kid thinks I'm cool - what's so bad.
This is where I hang my hat - it's a bit of a mess but...
Now, Blind 101. Help me out with a mental map. Walk me down a straight line and show me your place, all the obstacles. Remember once you've told me, they can't be moved - otherwise...
Got it - here take my arm.  Couch, chair, TV to the left, low table at.. .at 4 o'clock, has the phone on it...
What's this?
Nothing. A sculpture.
It's yours?
My art school days - not very good.
It's a mother? - holding her child - up in the air - like she's proud? It's beautiful.
It's not done yet - one day I'll finish it.
Does this window open? I could use some air.
 I think so.
Damn!
What happened?
The wind - knocked over my plans.
What is this - these plans?
Just my work - - some plans for the Atlanta project we're bidding on - drawings of a lobby we're finishing up, some other smaller stuff. It's -- it's what I do.
I've got to get to work. Tonight we'll do something - we could listen to music or go out for dinner...
How about a movie?
A movie?
Yeah. I haven't been in years.
Alright. A movie. I won't be long.
There's these big pots and Woody's got a huge lobster in his hand...
Lobster - what's a lobster?
 It's a.. .kind of like.. it's got...
 That's it - you're on your own.
And they lived happily ever after.
Woody and Diane...
And the lobster? AMY Stop with the lobster.
Hey - you here that?
What?
Hey - can you turn that up?
"The way you comb your hair, The way you sip your tea..."
Virgil?!
 "Can't take that away from meee" - what?
People are watching.
Watching? Watching what?
You. Me. Everyone is staring at us.
And?
Well - it can be embarrassing.
 Oh - I see.
No - you don't.
"The way you make me see..."
 What do you mean?! (Virgil gives her a look - I want the operation) You mean it. I mean I only want you to have the operation...
Amy. I want the chance to see. The chance to see Central Park, the Brooklyn Bridge, apples, raisins, a buffalo, a carbuerator and the man in the moon.  But I would give all that up - just to see this face.
"You can't take that away from me."
OK Virgil - let's get to it.
Coffee? It's really bad.
Virgil never mentions his parents - do they know?
Our mother died when I was 20 - Virgil wasn't even a teenager. And our father - he's been gone for quite awhile.
I'm sorry. I didn't know.
 You're right this is bad.
It must have been very tough on you - taking care of Virgil alone after your mother died.
He's my brother.
You don't like Virgil doing this - do you?
I don't like Virgil getting hurt. Hope is like fire, it can keep you warm - - or it can burn you.
There you are.
You know what they say, Virgil? The eyes are the windows to the soul.
 That makes us the Windex to the soul.  OK, both eyes done. Let's patch him up.
Hello?
Jennie?
How're you feeling?
OK - a little pain, like a tequila hang over - is Amy here?
Right here - Dr. Aaron said you did great
So how's my hair - I'd hate the first time I see myself to be a bad hair day.  What's that? AMY There's camera guys here too.
Camera guys?
 For posterity. We're going to make you famous. We're also sending this closed circuit to one of our conference rooms - there's a lot of people interested in our results today. So how you feel Virgil?
Good. Great. Fine.  Nervous.
AARON Nothing to be nervous about. Now Jennie and Amy, if you would stand off to my right -- I want Virgil to get just a slight bounce of light.  Ready Virgil.
Let's go.
Okay - last phase - we remove these patches and...
 Okay - wait. So - so - what do I do? I mean, what will I see first?
Well - we're all here - Amy, your sister. This is new for us all. Why don't we find out?
Well?
What is it Virgil?
It's - it's - I don't know.
Virgil - what do you see?
Something's wrong.
Virgil what's wrong? What's happening?
Everything's fine - it's going to take...
It's not fine - don't say it's fine.
Tell me what you're seeing Virgil.
 I don't know - it's all screwed up - this can't be seeing - something's wrong - too confusing - what the hell's happening??!
What is it - Stop!
What? The camera?
 Stop moving!
Virgil, it's just the camera.
Alright - alright - they've stopped. OK. Let's everybody just calm down - we'll take it slowly.
Virgil. What can we do?
I gotta focus - gotta think - gimme a second - OK, OK - get me a coke. Somebody?
He's thirsty - someone get him a drink!!
No - just a can - a bottle -- put something in my hands!
Here - how's this?
Good, Virgil - that's it - use your touch - associate - now, tell me - what do you see in your hand?
A can. Is it a can?
What's going on?
 He's associating - one sense to the other. His fingers tell his brain - then his brain tells his eyes and he recognizes the image in front of him.  He's seeing!
Virgil - let's rest your eyes for today and we'll check them again tomorrow. We should all be happy - we've got something.
What just happened in there?
You saw it. Success.
Success - wait a minute - then why can't he see me, his sister, anything.
He sees you. He just doesn't understand that he sees you.
But he'll overcome it - I mean - this is temporary right?
There's a very real possibility the part of his brain area allocated to vision is atrophied - given it's lack of use, Virgil has probably used it for some other function.
You didn't think of this?
We had no way of knowing what his faculties were until we gave him the operation. If you remember - we didn't know what to expect - though it's clear his retinal disease must be in remission.
So what are we supposed to do now - you saw him - it's like he's another person in there.
He won't need to stay here - take him home - let him rest. But I will need to see him every couple of days for the next month.
Isn't there some kind of therapy he should be doing - someone to help him.
OK, there is a visual therapist - Ray Webster - a little unorthodox - that's why he's probably your best bet, especially considering the unique aspects of Virgil's condition. I'll contact him for you - but there's no guarantee he can help.
 No guarantees. AARON Jennie, I told Amy here when we first talked - this is whole new ground - for all of us.
Hello?
Is there...?
Duncan - I know the additions to the mall will cost more.. look, I can't do this on the phone - I'll be in tomorrow.. yes, I remembered they're putting the fixtures in the lobby - I'll get there as well - I'm just asking for one more day.
Amy?
No - it's Jennie.
I'm sorry - I'll move slower - I just...
This is you.
This is me.
Everything's going to be alright - we just need to get you home.
No, no - I can't go home. I need to be here - see the therapist - doctor's. I want to be here.
But I can't stay here - and you can't do this alone--who's going to take care.. .?
Amy? She's going to look after you? She doesn't know anything about the blind.
I'm not blind anymore - and I'm not going to let someone I care about walk out of my life again.
 It's not your fault he left. You can't keep blaming yourself.
 I'm staying here.
Amy?
Virgil's finishing getting ready. Could you walk me to my car?
You alright?
I'm scared to death. I've spent my whole life looking for any holes he might fall in. I'd run up ahead and cover them. Everywhere I look here, I see holes.
Please believe me - I don't want him to get hurt anymore than you do.
Amy - when Virgil was very young, he couldn't see those close to him - so he never learned to reach out.  Don't expect him to reach out when he's in pain, or confused, or unhappy. If you really care about him you have to just be there for him.
This is just great - I don't believe this. What's that saying - stop the world I wanna get off.
Hey Virgil, it's Ethan.
That you Ethan?
It's me - and this is my mom.
Virgil - Karen.
Hi, Virgil - heard a lot about you.
You look funny.
You should see how I look from this side.
Wait, wait, what are we doing - WE'RE WALKING INTO A WALL!!
It's OK - it's not a wall - it's just a staircase. You're going to have to trust me on these things.
God, I feel like... like such a child - I just thought seeing would be different.
We'll get a hold of this Ray Webster guy - we'll get his help.
Man. Something exploded in your apartment.
I wanted to do something special for you.
It's making me a little bit dizzy - but it is special.
Okay - so - this is what beautiful looks like.
Thank-you. You want to see the rest. Focusing on her, Virgil smiles, takes her face in his hands - leans in and kisses her. She pulls back a little. AMY I can't believe this - how nervous I am.
What if you don't like what you see?
Do you want me to turn off the lights?
No - no. This is your first seeing day.  I want you to see everything.
OK?
Yes, very OK.
 Virgil?
I can't sleep - I'm afraid if I close my eyes...
It'll be black when you open them again.
You enjoy sculpting?
At first. I liked the idea of molding - taking the way I saw things up here- -  - and making it take shape with my hands.
But you never finish them.
Pieces never come out the way I wanted - the way I saw them. I end up working on them forever - like this one - never getting them right.
This is what rain looks like?
Yeah.
It looks lonely. Not what I expected. But I like it.
You've got to alter each of the windows by five feet...
These are the specs you gave me.
I know - I'm changing them - this is better.  Betsy!
Can you get me some research on those Maple trees we're leaving in. They're too big - I want to change them so they fit in with the design better. Get rid of the dead weight.
Don't you have an appointment?
Yes, yes. Thank-you. Evan here will print out the new specs - give them to Duncan - tell him I'll be back in two hours.
Amy?
Just give me two hours.
Right - OK, Virgil - says here you went blind at one - before you developed a visual vocabulary.  You have no sense of depth of field, no knowledge of space, shape, size or distance. Basically your eyes work but your brain hasn't learned to process the information.  You are mentallv blind. Neurologists call this "visual agnosia".
I call it pretty screwed up.
Better term. I'll make a note of that.
Dammit
What?
Glasses, can never find 'em.  Mrs. Fenster.
 OK. Alberto Valvo "Sight Restoration after Long Term Blindness" - blah-blah-blah. - ah here...  "One must die as a blind person to be born again as a sighted person. However it is the interim, the limbo- -between two worlds, one dead/the other powerless to be born - that is so terrible."  There. You're in limbo.
What do you mean - there - he's in limbo. That's all you have to offer?
What? - I'm Anne Bancroft all of a sudden? I'm a professor - I teach people, how to teach the blind how to become independent.  There's no book on what you're going through - I'd like to help - but like the rest of things in life - it's up to you.
Wait a minute - up to me? I thought you were going to help me here.
You want a lesson? Right - here. What's this?
It's an apple.
Good. Good.  OK. What's this now?
It's an apple.
 Good. Good. But is it an apple or just a picture of an apple?
So this is a joke? Is that what you're saying - your eyes lie to you? Great - looking forward to this.
Your eyesight can and will play tricks on you Virgil. Remember that. No matter what I could teach you - no matter what exercises I could give you - they'll still play tricks on you.
That's all it is right now - one big trick. Nothing makes any sense. I can't function like this.
 Virgil - look - you have to learn to see - just like you learned to speak. Only this is not like learning a new language - it's like learning language for the first time.  Perception - sight - life, is about experience - about reaching out and exploring the world for yourself. It's not enough to just see Virgil --  -- we've got to look as well.
 Well, thank-you Obi Wan Kenobi - but that doesn't tell us anything. What we need is some assistance here - some kind of program - a set of exercises - we're kind of adrift and...
Amy - last I checked - this isn't a game of Parcheesi, it doesn't come with a set of rules.
I can't believe you're just...
Amy. Let's go.
No, wait, Virgil...
Let's go.  Thank-you Dr. Webster.
You want me - I'm always here.
I'm going to call Aaron - get him to recommend someone else.
He's right, Amy. I've got to do this on my own. No one taught you how to see.
I was a baby then - I had years to learn - you don't - you need to...  --we don't even know what to do - where to start..
What's this - this thing?
 What - it's a mailbox.
What color is it?
Blue.
Blue. OK, good - that's a mailbox - it's blue. There - we've started.
I want to walk. I want to see what's out there.
Fine. Let's walk.
Don't you have a job?
I'm going to make time for this. I promise.
Go to work. If I need you - I have your number.
Screw work - let's go try those eyes.
Now just two weeks after surgery--the patient is still having difficulty understanding images, shapes, contours -
- and his progress with depth of field has been especially slow...
Virgil is still very reliant on his touch to interpret objects in his surroundings -
- and his understanding of three dimensionality is extremely limited and confounding to him...
It's a dog.
Now what's that?
I believe we have just the tree you're looking for your lobby. Needs very little light - slow growing - ah here we are...
Nice. Good. What do you think Virgil?
He is also still having great difficulty "scanning", basically putting a whole picture together.
If he looks at the top of a tree - then scans to the bottom - he's forgotten the top by the time he reaches the trunk.
This includes the ability to read. In reading a word - he forgets the first letter by the time he gets to the last.
-- meaning ... he has a total lack of visual memory. This is an unexpected physiological flaw. We are hopeful Virgil can overcome this.  Thank-you - that's all for today.
What's that?
A camera - it's OK - taking your - picture.
What, by flashing me in the face?
Please!! - It's not good for him.
Mr. Anderson. Christie Evans Eyewitness news. We heard the Doctor speak about your progress - and we're wondering what your expectations are.
Oh my God.
Information. Pinecrest. For a Jennie Anderson..
What's this?
Uh uh uh. See it first. No cheating. Concentrate.
 A pen. I don't know - let me touch it.
A fork.
Right.. Now put it down in front of you. How far is it from.
Twenty feet
You're not looking.
Dammit, Amy, Amy, I spent all day in front of that panel feeling like a guinea pig. Every time I open my eyes I have to look. Can we just sit and have dinner for once?
I'm just trying to help you see.
I know. But that's all it seems we're about. How was your day - what goes on at work - how about those Rangers - did the stock market hold today - is there anything else going on in our world besides my eyes?
 OK, we've been invited to a party - Duncan's birthday.
What's this - looks like worms.
It's spaghetti - it's fine.
I brought you a present - good for hand eye coordination.
Great - you go to work building buildings - I go home with building blocks.
I'm here for you to wish me happy birthday. How's it going?
 OK. He's progressing, slowly - doing the best he can.
I was actually wondering about the mall designs. We're expected in Atlanta tomorrow - with these plans.
I can't go to Atlanta tomorrow - not with Virgil's problems,..
Ok, ok  I'm sorry. Things aren't going so well?
 He seems blinder now than he ever was.
Do you ever wonder why you do the things you do?
Didn't get what you expected did you?
Sometimes I think he's not going to make it - that he's never going to be able to see.
Amy - listen to me. You liked this guy - I saw that. You wanted to help him - it didn't work out so hot. You can't punish yourself.. Sometimes things just don't work out the way we want them to - look at us.
Yeah. Thanks Duncan.
Anytime.  Now back to work.
Hey, Happy Birthday.
Measuring cup?
Cheese grater.
Yes - my man.
Got me.
 You're no help. How am I supposed to do my homework if...
Homework - dude - I ain't doin' homework.
 You're lucky you got a cane.
You want it. I've been thinking about throwing it out.
Man - really - I can have it? Cool.  I could be a Ninja Darth Vader fighter with one of these - protect my mom from the evil super.
But first you'll have to fight off the evil --- whatever this is.
Could be the super - go for cover.
Yes?
Virgil - it's me.
En garde.
Jennie?! Jennie.. God, I'm sorry - c'mon in - this is my friend Ethan - what are you doing here?
You want to tell me what we're doing here?
That's him. That's our Father.
I can't - I can't see him.
I thought your eyes were better.
No. I - I don't want to see him. My eyes aren't good enough - not yet - he won't understand. It won't be enough.
He's our father. He heard about the operation and he's asked to see you. Look here he comes.
GODDAMIT Jennie - I don't want to see him - I don't even know why you brought me here.
Virgil?... Virgil?!
I'm here. I forget about the lights sometimes.
Look - about this party tonight - it's no big deal - maybe we should just...
It's your partner's birthday. We should go - besides you wanted me to meet your friends, right?
Yeah. Right.
Glass of wine? Red - white?
Which is the red?
Virgil - here let me.
 No! Sorry - I mean - I'm almost there - I think I got it.
Dammit. Sorry.
Trust me - you're not the first - or probably the last. Let me get a cloth.
Thanks
I hope you're driving.
OK. He's coming up the stairs. Everybody get ready - kill the lights.
What - what's happening?
It's for the surprise - they turned off the lights.
Surprise - yeah.
Is he OK?
Here ya go Virgil.
Cheers, Kevin.
 Virgil!!
Virgil--over here!!
Maybe he's blind again.
Don't even think it. C'mon - I want the both of you to meet him - he'll never find us here.
Virgil - I'm sorry - I went to get Duncan. Duncan - Virgil. And this is Betsy.
Hey Virgil good to meet you.
Heard a lot about you.
Heyyy! Yeah. Good to meet you.
Sorry - things still get a little cockeyed sometimes.
 Few more of these and I'll be the same.
Lemme get Kevin - my man - he'll top you up. KE-VIN!!!
Virgil!
What?
Nothing. It's ok.
Amy, in Atlanta tomorrow...
Duncan - I told you...
I spoke to Falk and he...
 What?
Amy said you had great hands.
 She did, did she.
You know my father was blind for several years, he had cataracts as well.
Really. I'm surprised I don't know him. It's a club you know.
Yes.
Kevin - Duncan here the birthday man - could use himself a drink. Kevin here tells me he's black - did you know that - I mean look at him - look at me - isn't that the damnedest thing. He's black.
I'll get you a drink.
What's that look?
What look?
I've never seen your face that way before. It's.. .weird. What does it mean?
Come on Duncan - let's dance - move those old bones.
What the hell it's my birthday -- nice to meet you Virgil - see you at the opening.
Opening?
The lobby we designed. Virgil - you can't...
Let's dance.
What are you doing?
I feel like Rip Van Winkle. I've woken up from a thirty year sleep - and the world's passed me by.
It's just dancing. Who cares?
No-no-no-no. It's not the Goddamn dancing. I wanted to come here tonight - show you I could "fit" in. Like the big boys do. Big seeing boys. Yes. Well, I don't. Don't.
It's just going to take time. You weren't ready. We shouldn't have come.
No - I - me, shouldn't have come. You want me to see - but you know what - you know what - shit - I don't belong in the wonderful world of seeing.
Virgil  look .
No, I won't. I'm tired of looking. Fuck looking and the horse it came in on.
Oh my God, are you alright?
Yeah, I'm just fine. Take me home.
Didn't want to wake you.
You're going.
I'll only be a couple of days.
This isn't working.
What - we're not working - your eyes - what's not working?
I get up every morning - I look in the mirror - and I stare at a total stranger. I stare and I stare - and no matter how hard I look - I don't see Virgil there anywhere. And the more I look at you...
What? You don't see me?
I saw you better when I was blind.
Well, you're not blind any more. I'm sorry if that disappoints you.  I've got a plane to catch. I'm going to go before we say things we don't mean.
I love it.
But we already cut those trees down.
You want to join us.
No - no - I'll wait for you out here - when you're done.
Virgil
I'll be done in a minute.
You'd think he would have told us. I mean those trees were in the photos.
We'll just have to win him over tomorrow. Let me buy you a drink - get those creative juices going.
 Aw - no - I really...
C'mon - listen, they're playing our song.
 Mack the Knife was our song?
OK - I'm just about done here - I got a place for you - relax those eyes a bit.
 You want to know the truth -- God's honest truth? Seeing's been the shits.
You got to be kidding me son. You can say that - sitting here in these prime viewing seats. Forget fixing your eyes - we're going to get your head examined.
I'm serious. I was better off blind. People don't have these expectations of you you can't live up to. You're blind - fine - they deal with it.
Didn't get what you expected did you?
When I was blind - I had an image of what everything was, up here...  now - it's all different - not at all what I'd expected - not what I'd hoped for.
Virgil, let me explain something here. When you were blind - you dealt with things one at a time - sequentially right? A wall led to a door to a tree to a car. That's how you got to what you wanted - right.  Seeing people - for better or worse - deal with everything all at once - taking in the whole picture - which sometimes confuses the hell out of what they want.  Virgil, my advice after three beers - don't be afraid to take in the whole picture - just don't lose sight of what you want.
What I want is to make it work with Amy.
And what does she have to say
She just wants me to see.
It's that important is it?
You know what I learned a long time ago. Seeing girls like seeing guys.  I'm not going to let her down.
See - not so bad.
Not so bad. DUNCAN It's nice to dance together again.
Yeah.
You remember...?
First time we danced - Connecticut. We watched the leaves turn - so much to see - I'd love to go back.
So would I.  What happened to us Amy? You're so intent on fixing everything - why'd you give up on us?
I learned some things can't be fixed. We got married for all the wrong reasons. I don't think I fell in love with you as much as I fell in love with architecture.
 I never fell in love with architecture - but I know I fell in love with you.
Now - that's bullshit.
It used to work.
 Oh, God.
Amy? - what's going on - what time is it?
What's wrong?
What's wrong? This was' a mistake - a big mistake. Go back to sleep - you've got an important meeting tomorrow.
I've got? - hold on here - you're not bailing out on me - I need you.
 For the meeting.
Of course for the meeting.
I'm going home.
To be a babysitter.
Can't we for once be adults - face the fact that we've just made a colossal error?
Fine - this was stupid, there - happy? - but goddamit Amy - I still care about you. Where do you actuallv think any of this is going to lead with this guy?
I don't know - but the one good thing to come of this mess tonight - I know I want to find out.
Hi
Hey.
Whatcha doing?
It's the craziest thing. You start back over there - focus on a building. And when you walk towards it - it changes - each step makes it look different. I started out just looking for the horizon.
You can't see it from here - too many buildings.
But it's still there - even though you can't see it - right? You gotta have faith it's there. Things exist beyond what I can see - I just have to take it on faith.
You have so many looks?
Wait - no - this isn't your fault - I'm the one's been a shit. You're too hard on yourself - expect too much of yourself.
Virgil
 Let me say this. Every day of my life - I've wished for just one thing.
To see.
To be whole. For just one month. For just one day or one minute. For one goddamned half a second. And not just to be able to run, or ride a bike, or drive a car.  But for once not to have a bruise from bumping into something or to stand in a room and have to ask "is anyone here" and here that dead silence, knowing someone is there. Not to have food on my sweater, or have to put my finger in my glass to know when it's full. I just want to be whole.  I went to see my father the other day.
I couldn't face him. I felt like I was letting him down. I feel like I'm letting you down.
No
No, listen. I gave up years ago - I'm not going to give up now. Amy - that day I met you - for the first time in my life I felt someone needed me as much as I needed them. I don't want you to give up on me.
Besides I couldn't leave you - I owe too much in back rent.
Up until the operation five weeks ago - Virgil had been a touch person - someone who's vocabulary, whole sensibility, his picture of the world was based on tactile -- non-visual terms.
But - now - as a sighted person - by focusing singlemindedly on his goal, Virgil has a new found ability to understand his own physical relationship to objects in his life around him...
Distance, size, shape - perspective - now all have profound meaning to him...
This is an extraordinary achievement and advancement for medical science and a tribute to Virgil's determination to see.
Ladies and Gentlemen - Virgil Anderson.
 Since this may be one of our last sessions - are there any questions?
Breasts.  No, really. Don't get me wrong - I love them - they just weren't what I expected.
What about your girlfriend?
Whose did you think I was talking about?
Not having to do these sessions.  No - actually - being independent.
Can you read yet?
No, but...
Will you ever be able to?
I don't know.
If you can't read - will you ever be able to drive?
 I don't know.
Well how can you say...
 Virgil. After so many years of darkness - describe what it is to actually see.
You're here.
The Atlanta project - I thought it went away.
Duncan did some song and dance - Falk's coming to the lobby opening tomorrow - see our work.
I see it Amy.
What's that?
Your world. What you do. The plans - the work the ideas. The molding. For the first time I really see what you do - and not just up here...  but in here.
 Tonight is your night something special I want to show you VIRGIL What is it?
Everything.
That's the Brooklyn Bridge, Empire State Building, Chrysler building just over there...
Amy, look at me.
What?
This face - this is everything. It's all I've ever wanted to see.  You have so many looks. What do all those looks mean?
Well. Let's see. This...  ... is sad. This...is frustrated. This... is tired. This.. is confused. This.. is happy. And this...  ... is what in love looks like.
This look - this look I love.
Virgil - it's raining.
So - eight o'clock tonight.
Eight o'clock - building opening - I haven't forgotten.
Hey, Virgil - I'm the one supposed to fall asleep here.
Yes - sorry.
Daphne - I need to see Dr. Aaron - right away. It's an emergency.
What does that mean?
What?
What you just did?
It means - the machine is only registering sparks of activity - retinal sparks - followed by nothing. How long has this been going on?
I don't know - first I thought I was tired - some blurs - occasional cloudiness but it's been getting worse. Today I'm getting complete blackouts.
Your retinal function is down ten percent. I'm afraid - your retinal disease seems to have returned.
You're afraid. What does that mean - I thought you corrected it. You told me I was a 'seeing person'.
Now, you've every right to be upset. Maybe you didn't have the blood vessels to supply enough oxygen to the retinas. - Possibly some trauma - there are so many variables... to be honest, I don't know. I wish to God I did.
OK. You're the expert. Tell me - what do we do now - how do we repair this?
Virgil. I -- I wish there was a nice way to say this.
No - there is no nice way to say it is there. No nice way to let the man know it's all over - that.. he's going blind again!
Virgil, I understand what...
No you don't! Don't ever say that. You'll never understand. Ever!
How long?
Hard to say. Month - few weeks -  Days.
God, what do I tell Amy? What do I tell her?
You look good. Hey - how do I look?
I need some answers. Why'd you leave? Because I'm blind - or because I quit trying to see?
To the point - I like that - something you got from me.
Cut the bullshit - "dad". I don't hear from you for over twenty years - then you find out I can see and all of a sudden you show up?
 Hey. Virge - can we talk about this later, huh...
No, not later. Now! Was my blindness so wrong that made you tear our family apart.
Every morning I woke up and looked at you and saw my own failures. If I couldn't get my own son to see then...What difference does any of this make - you can see now - hell, I knew you could.
I'm going blind again.
No...
The doctor told me today. You're the first person I've told. I wanted to come see you before it was completely gone.
EMPTY_LINE
Sorry the building doesn't open until tonight.
I know. I'm Virgil Anderson...with Roswell Tremont. We did the lobby. I'm here to check some details for tonight.
Oh, okay, sure Mr. Anderson.
You want to see that the thing work?
Thing? What thing?
This thing
You nervous?
No - not a bit. What do you think?
You look great.
Really. Not too flashy?  I'm going to change.
This is an important night for you.
But you know what's most important...  That you're going to be there to see it.
So.
Amy, it's good - very good. I'm proud of you. I love the detail - planted pots in the corners, the moldings...  It's got genuine lines.
 Look around - do you see it?
What?
Our rain.
Your rain.
Hey Virgil.
Still working on that hand shake you'll get it don't worry.
Congratulations - the place looks great.
Thanks - here's the genius though - I just get the gigs. Can I steal her away Falks' over there and I can't tell if he's impressed with our work or just has gas from the pate.
Go - do your thing.
I'll be right back. There's food and drinks down on the floor.
Quite a party. Love the detail of the building.
Sometimes the detail doesn't matter.
Ray. What are you doing here?
Aaron called me. He was worried. I've been trying to find you - Amy's office told me you were here. It's bad?
It's almost gone. Last few days have been pretty bad.
Obviously Amy doesn't know.
It's going to break her heart. This is her big night - I didn't want to ruin it. Thought I could pull it off.
 You can't avoid this forever.
I know  So Ray? Is it better to have seen and lost than never to have seen at all?
I thought it was loved and lost.
Dr. Webster - this is a surprise.
Virgil invited me - wanted to show you off I think. The place is terrific - he's got every right to be proud.
Thank-you. I need Virgil for a moment - schmoozing time.
Shmooze away.
 Thanks Ray. I'll call you.
Virgil - I'd like you to meet Jack Falk and his wife Donna up from Atlanta.
Pleased to meet you.
Amy tells us you were blind.
That's OK - nice to see someone so honest.
Amy tells us you're her inspiration. Any help you can give us with our project?
I'm a little biased but I kind of liked Amy's original design.
But could we do better.
We could do better, Mr. Falk - a lot better.
Good, I like that attitude. Let's keep trying for perfection.
That's right - that's why I've got Virgil.
You wanna walk - I feel like some air.
See what we see? Sure.
Can I take your arm - eyes a little tired.
You really made the place come alive with that fountain.
Thank-you.  You know I've been thinking - you're doing so great now - and if we get this new design job we'd have some extra money - I think we should go on a big seeing celebration.
 A seeing celebration?
Yeah, maybe in a couple of months. I looked into Egypt - we could see the pyramids - we could see it together for the first time. What do you say?
You know - there is something I'd like to see.
Of course, anything.
The Rangers play tomorrow. Season'll be over before we know it - could be our last chance.
The Rangers. Sure, why not?
This is amazing - isn't it?
Should we find our seats. Looks like the game's already started.
Yeah - I - I'll follow you.
I love the stadium the way it's structure...
Amy - the game...
Right - the game.
He scored, he scored - you see that - it was amazing.
What? That was good right?
Yeah - it was great - I was just...
Virgil, where are you going?
The puffy thing.
Virgil, what's happening?
Just having a bad eye day. A lot to take in.
Tell me. What's going on?
Nothing. I see almost nothing.
Oh God.
It's OK.
OK?!!
It's OK for you to cry.
 No, no - I'm not going to cry. Solve the problem. We made it through one operation - we'll make it through another. We won't give up. We'll get this right - we just need to...
I saw Dr. Aaron. There's nothing they can do.
Then we'll find another Doctor. There's got to be someone else. We'll find something that works.
Don't you get it - I can't go through this again.
So just like that - we just forget it - give up? Why the hell haven't you told me what was going on?
 Because of this!!
What this?
You! Not letting it go - thinking there's a solution. Goddamit, I'm not design flaw in your fucking work that you can just change to make work Or throw away because it doesn't meet your expectations.  Let's face it - it's over!!
Virgil, give it time, you'll see.
No! I won't! This conversation is ended!!
What are you doing?
I'm leaving.
What do you mean leaving - you're leaving this apartment - you're leaving New York - you're leaving me?
I'm going home.
So you're big sister can take care of you - feed you TV dinners for of your life.
I'm not going to go through this bullshit again.
Is that what this has all been to you - bullshit?
Yes!! Who the hell were we fooling? I'm blind - I'm not meant to see - I don't belong here.
God damn right you're blind. You want to live in your own little world - this perfect world that your sister built for you - where no one can touch you ... where no one can reach you.
Do you know the reason why I remembered the cotton candy all those years? Because I went to the game with my father. And it's the only good thing I can remember about him. The rest is him pushing me to be something I'm not - then turning his back on me the minute his plans fail.
I am not turning my back on you. You want me to give up on you - you love the self pity.
I don't want you to give up on ME. But you won't give up on me seeing.
Because there must be other options.
Not anymore.
Dammit.
Virgil!!
 Is anything broken?
No - no bones are broken.
It's finished - can't you see that! We both didn't get what we wanted.
 I never meant to hurt you.
When you asked me to come here - did you ever think this wasn't going to work - that for one minute I may not be able to see.  Did you ever think it would be OK to have a relationship with a blind man?
There's my answer.
Welcome home.
Sophie!?
Let me look at you. You're so beautiful.. yes.
Mom and dad.
Everything's as you left it. Nothing's changed.
Jen - I'm pretty tired - I'd like to be alone.
Hello!
I picked up some things at the store - T-shirts, I'm sure you're out, some socks...
Jennie, what's at the end of Main Street?
Well - I think it's Vivian's little stationery...
Beyond all the stores - past firehouse. What happens when this is no more Main Street?
Well - there's nothing really - you know that. ~
No! You told me that's all there was. That's wrong. There's a helluva lot out there.
I told you what you needed to know.
What was within my reach.
What more do vou want?
Isn't there anything more that vou want?
Is this about our father - he called told me...
No. This isn't about him. Jennie - you've spent your whole life as blind as I was. The world doesn't stop within our reach.
Virgil, please. This is your home. Stop thinking about what's out there - things that will never matter to you. You're safe here where everyone...
Where everyone what!?
Knows you.
Can protect me?! Jennie, this place was a wonderful safe haven for me growing up. I know that.  And I can only imagine what you gave up to keep this world for me. I thank you and love you from the bottom of my soul. But now I want to give you your life back.
Virgil, I - I can't...
You can
I'm reaching out, Jennie.
Amy - you in there.
Go away.
I knew keeping this key would come in handy one day. What a mess - what happened?
It broke - I'm trying to fix it.
So - guess what?
I'm not in the mood for games.
We got it. The goddamned Atlanta mall - we got it!! Now - pull yourself out of this slump - I want you to fly down this week to...
I'm not going.
What are you ta1king about? What's the problem here?
The problem?! Everything. Nothing is right thank-you very much.
You know what the problem is - you're the problem - you met a blind guy you thought was cool and spent the first two months trying to change him.
Are you finished?
Not even close. Let me tell you something - you can't change people to solve you. You tried to do it with me - you tried to do it with Virgil. You ever think some of the things you try to fix - ain't broke.
 Virg .......
Hey Amy.
Hi, Ethan. Sorry - I thought...
He's not coming back is he?
No - he's not.
Whatcha doin'?
Cleaning up a mess - going to start over.
Growing up blind - I had two dreams. One was to see. The other - to play for the New York Rangers.
After the 'miracle' of my short period of sight - I realize - I'd rather play for the Rangers.  It's not that it was so awful - I saw many things - some good, some back some that I'm already forgetting.
But I realized that our eyes aren't what make us see. We only live in darkness when we don't look - look at what is genuine about ourselves - genuine about others - you don't need eyes for that.
Did I miss?
By a mile.
Amy?
Ray told me you were living in town - said I could find you here.  I rushed, didn't I? Fourteen steps to the tree and I made us smash right into it.
We tried.
I finished the sculpture. I'd love you to see it.
Figure of speech.
Figure of speech. Virgil - when I first met you - you saw more than any sighted person I've ever known. I didn't mean to take that away from you.
Amy. I saw ... I actually saw the horizon. You did that for me. It's out there. You showed me you just have to reach for it..
You want to walk?
See what we see?
Yeah. Just see what we see.
