..."Life is very long..."
TS Eliot. Not the first person to say it, certainly not the first person to think it.
But he's given credit for it because he bothered to write it down.
So if you say it, you have to say his name after it. "Life is very long:" TS Eliot. Absolutely goddamn right.
Give the devil his due. Very few poets could've made it through Eliot's trial and come out, brilliantined and double-breasted and Anglican. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   2. 4   CONTINUED:                                                    4
Not hard to imagine, faced with Eliot's first wife, lovely Viv, how Crane or Berryman might have reacted, just foot-raced to the nearest bridge; Olympian Suicidalists.
Not Eliot: after sufficient years of ecclesiastical guilt, plop her in the nearest asylum and get on with it.
God-a-mighty. You have to admire the purity of the survivor's instinct.
Violet. My wife. She takes pills, sometimes a great many. They affect... among other things, her equilibrium. Fortunately, they eliminate her need for equilibrium...
My wife takes pills and I drink. That's the bargain we've struck.
The reasons why we partake are anymore inconsequential.
The facts are: my wife takes pills and I drink. That's the bargain we've struck, just one paragraph of our marriage contract... cruel covenant. And these facts have over time made burdensome the maintenance of traditional American routine.
Rather than once more vow abstinence with my fingers crossed in the queasy hope of righting our ship, I've chosen to turn my life over to a Higher Power and join the ranks of the Hiring Class.
It's not a decision with which I'm entirely comfortable. I know how to launder my dirty undies. Done it all my life, but I'm finding it's getting in the way of my drinking.
Sorry about the heat in here. My wife is cold-blooded and not just in the metaphorical sense. She does not believe in air-conditioning... as if it is a thing to be disbelieved. I knew your father, you know. Bought many a watermelon from Mr Youngblood's fruit stand. He did pass, didn't he??
Yes, sir.
May I ask how?
He had a heart attack. Fell into a flatbed truck full of wine grapes.
Wine grapes. In Oklahoma.   I'm sorry.
Bev...?!
Yes?
Did you pullish? Did you...Oh, goddamn                * it... did. You. Are the police here?
No...
Am I looking through window? A window?
Can you come here?
Oh.    Hello.
Johnna, the young woman I told you about.
You tell me she's a woman. Wo-man. Whoa-man.
That I'm hiring --
Oh, you hire women's now the thing. I thought you meant the other woman.
To cook and clean, take you to the clinic and to the --
 In the int'rest of ...civil action, your par-tic-u-lars way of speak- king, I thought you meant you had thought a whoa-man to be HIRED!
I don't understand you.
 Hello.
Hello.
I'm sorry.  Like this.
Yes, ma'am.
You're very pretty.
Thank you.
Are you an Indian? "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft    6. 8   CONTINUED:                                                       8
Yes, ma'am.
What kind?                                              *
Cheyenne.                                               *
Do you think I'm pretty?
Yes, ma'am.
 Like...this?  Like this?
Careful...
You're the house now. I'm sorry, I took some medicine for my mussss... muscular.
Why don't you go back to bed, sweetheart?
Why don't you go fuck a fucking sow's ass?
All right.
I'm sorry. I'll be sickly sweet. I'm soooooooo sweet. In-el-abrially sweet.
We keep unusual hours here. Try not to differentiate between night and day. You won't be able to keep a healthy routine.
I need the work.
I myself require very little attention, thrive without it, sort of a human cactus. My wife has been diagnosed with a touch of cancer, so she'll need to be driven to Tulsa for her final chemotherapy treatments. You're welcome to use that American- made behemoth parked out in the drive. Welcome to make use of anything, everything, all this garbage we've acquired, our life's work. Do you have any questions?
What kind of cancer?
My God, I nearly neglected the punch line: mouth cancer.
What pills does she take?
Valium. Vicodin. Darvon, Darvocet. Percodan, Percocet. Xanax for fun. OxyContin in a pinch. And of course Diluadid. I can't forget Diluadid.
"By night within that ancient house, Immense, black, damned, anonymous."  My last refuge, my books: simple pleasures, like finding wild onions by the side of a road, or requited love.
TS Eliot. Read it or not. It isn't a job requirement, just for your enjoyment.  Here we go, round the prickly pear...                  * Prickly pear prickly pear... Here we go round the prickly pear...
Mom...?
Mom...!
...Mom...?
...Mom?
Mmm...
You didn't hear the phone?
If it's your father, tell him to fuck off.
It's Aunt Ivy in Oklahoma.
...Ivy? ...what's wrong?
...When...?
Mom...?  Mom?
...You've been out there...?
...You're going out yourself...?                        *
Stop that...
You call Barb? What'd she say?
She's on her way.
What'd you tell her?
I told her Dad was missing. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   11. 14   CONTINUED:                                                      14
Did you tell her how long he'd been missing?
Five days.
What did she say?
She said she was on her way.
Goddamn it, Ivy, what did she say?
She said she was on her way.
You're hopeless.  Goddamn your father for putting me through this. Seen that office of his, all that mess? I can't make heads or tails of it. He hired this Indian for some goddamn reason and now I have a stranger in my house. What's her name?
Johnna.   Who was on the phone?
This house is falling apart, something about the basement or the sump pump or the foundation. I don't know anything about it. I can't do this by myself.
I called Karen.
What did she say?
She said she'd try to get here.
She'll be a big fat help, just like you.  "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   12. 14   CONTINUED:                                                   14 VIOLET  I need Barb.
What's Barb going to be able to do?
What did you do to your hair?
I had it straightened.
You had it straightened.    Why would anybody do that?
I just wanted a change.
You're the prettiest of my three girls, but you always look like a schlub. Why don't you wear makeup?
Do I need makeup?
All women need makeup. Don't let anybody tell you different. The only woman who was pretty enough to go without makeup was Elizabeth Taylor and she wore a ton. Stand up straight.
Mom.
Your shoulders are slumped and your hair's all straight and you don't wear makeup. You look like a lesbian.
You could get a decent man if you spruced up. A bit, that's all I'm saying.
I'm not looking for a man. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   13. 14   CONTINUED:                                                   14
There are a lot of losers out there, don't think I don't know that. But just because you got a bad one last time doesn't mean --
Barry wasn't a loser.
Barry was an asshole. I warned you from the jump, first time you brought him over here in his little electric car with his stupid orange hair and that turban --
It wasn't a turban --
You work at a college. Don't tell me there aren't people coming through the door of that library every day.
You want me to marry some eighteen year old boy from one of these hick towns?
They still have teachers at TU, right? They did when your father taught there.
How many was that?
I wasn't counting.
Is your mouth burning?
Like a son-of-a-bitch.   My tongue is on fire.
Are you supposed to be smoking? "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   14. 14   CONTINUED:                                                    14
Is anybody supposed to smoke?
You have cancer of the mouth.
Just leave it alone.
* Are you scared?
Course I'm scared. And you are a comfort, sweetheart. Thank God one of my girls stayed close to home.
Aunt Mattie Fae's here.
She means to come in here and tell me what's what.
I don't know how Uncle Charlie puts up with it.
He smokes a lot of grass.
He does?
He smokes a lot of grass.
I told Vi, "Take all those goddamn books he's so fond of and make a big pile in the front yard and have yourself a bonfire."
You don't burn a man's books.
You do, if the situation calls for it.
The man's books didn't do anything.
You get any ideas about just up and taking off, Charlie Aiken, you better believe --
I'm not going anywhere.
I'm saying if you did, I'll give you two days to get your head straight and then it's all going up in a blaze of glory. Not that you have any books lying around. I don't think I've ever seen you read a book in my life.
That bother you?
What's the last book you read?
Beverly was a teacher; teachers read books, I'm in the upholstery business.
Ah, sweetie. Your daddy's done this before. Just takes off, no call, nothing. I told your mother, "You pack that son-of-a-bitch's bags and have `em waiting for him on the front porch."
Where's your mother?
Upstairs.
They've always had trouble, Ivy.
He'll come back again, I know he will, he always does. Beverly is a very complicated man.
Kind of like Charles.
Yes, like Little Charles. Exactly --
Oh.   He's nothing like Little Charles.
She just means in their sort of quiet complicated ways --
Little Charles isn't complicated, he's just unemployed.
He's an observer.
All he observes is the television.  Why is it so dark in here?
So you can't even see Ivy's point? That Little Charles and Beverly share some kind of... complication.
You have to be smart to be complicated. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   17. 16   CONTINUED:                                                    16
Are you saying our boy isn't smart?
Yes, that's what I'm saying.
I'm sweating. Are you sweating?
Hell, yes, I'm sweating, it's ninety degrees in here.
Feel my back.
I don't want to feel your back.
Sweat is just dripping down my back.
I believe you.
Feel it.
No.
Come on, put your hand here --
Goddamn it --
Sweat's just dripping...
Ivy, when did this start? This business with taping the shades?
Been a couple of years now. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   18. 16    CONTINUED:                                                   16
Is it that long since we've been here?
Do you know its purpose? You can't tell if it's night or day.
I think that's the purpose.
Don't do that. This isn't your place.
The body needs sunlight.
What were these people thinking... the               * jokers who settled this place.   Who                 * was the asshole who saw this flat hot                * nothing and planted his flag? I mean                 * we fucked the Indians for this?                      *
Well, genocide always seems like such                * a good idea at the time.                             *
Right, you need a little hindsight.                  *
If you want me to explain the creepy                 * character of the Midwest, you're --                  *
Please, the Midwest. This is the                     * Plains: a state of mind, right? A                    * spiritual affliction, like the Blues.                * "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft    19. A17   CONTINUED:                                                   A17
"You okay?" "I'm fine.   Just got the                  * Plains."                                               *
Don't.                                                 *
They checked the hospitals, no Beverly.
Who's this now? The highway patrol?                    *
No, the sheriff, the Gilbeau boy.
What else did he say?
The boat's missing.
Dad's boat?
I asked the sheriff to send a deputy out to the dock to check if anybody had seen him and his boat is gone.
I'm gonna grab a smoke.
You've encouraged that.
I haven't encouraged anything.
You admire her for getting hooked at fourteen, makes her seem even more mature.
Goddamn, it's hot.
Suppose your mom's turned on the air conditioner?
You kidding? Remember the parakeets?
The parakeets?
I didn't tell you about the parakeets? She got a parakeet for some insane reason, and the little fucker croaked after two days. So she went to the pet store and raised hell and they gave her another parakeet. That one died after one day.  "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   21. 19   CONTINUED:                                                     19 BARBARA So she went back and they gave her a third parakeet and that one died too. So the chick from the pet store came out here to see just what in the hell this serial parakeet killer was doing to bump off these birds.
And?
The heat. It was too hot. They were dying from the heat.
Jesus.
These are tropical birds, all right? They live in the fucking tropics.
What, is she smoking a cigar?
Are you ready for this?
No.    No way.
Violet's a Clapton fan?
`Scuse me, dear...could I trouble you for another beer?
Goddam it, she's not a waitress. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   22. 20   CONTINUED:                                                   20
I know that.
Then get your own beer.
 I'll get it.
I don't believe you. Watchin' a ball game, drinkin' beers. You have any sense of what's going on around you?
Am I supposed to sit here like a statue? You're drinking whiskey.
I'm having a cocktail.
You're drinking straight whiskey!
Just... show a little class.
...Mom?
Hi, Charlie.
Oh my gosh, will you look at this one? Come here and give your Aunt Mattie Fae some sugar! "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   23. 20   CONTINUED:                                                    20
Hi, Uncle Charlie.
How was the flight from Denver?
Fine...
Barb...
It's okay, Mom. I'm here, I'm here. Shh, it's okay, I'm here.
No word then?
What am I going to do?             It's okay, Mom.
Did you see Bill and Jean?
Yes.   Hi, Bill.
Hello, Violet.
I'm just so scared.
Of course you are, poor thing. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   24. 20   CONTINUED:                                                   20
 Well, look at you.
Isn't she the limit? Look at her boobs!
O-kay, we've all stared at my tits now.
They're just so darn big.
You're just the prettiest thing. Thank you for coming to see me.
Ivy, I didn't see you up there.
It looked crowded.
God, you look good.   Doesn't she look good, Bill?
Yes, she does.                     I love your hair, that looks great.
She had it straightened. Barbara, or Bill, it doesn't matter, I need you to go through Beverly's things, help me with this paperwork.
Well... we can do that, Mom.
I was going to help with --
No, now that desk of his is such a mess and I get confused -- "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft    25. 20   CONTINUED:                                                    20
I'll take care of it, Violet --
 Which room are you in?
We're gonna head home soon.
You're going back to Tulsa?
We have to, we left in such a rush we didn't get anyone to take care of the damn dogs. Anyway, I know you want to spend some time with these girls.
How about Little Charles, can't he take care of the dogs?
Well, yeah, I guess he could --
We talked about this.
Mom, can Jean stay in the attic?
No, that's where what's-her-name lives.
Johnna.
Who's Johnna?
She's the Indian who lives in my attic.
She's the what? "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   26.
Hi...
Hello.
I'm Jean.                                               *
Johnna.                                                 *
I like your necklace.
Thank you.                                              *
Did you make that?
My grandma.
Is there something in it?
My umbilical cord.
Ewww, are you serious?
When a Cheyenne is born, their umbilical cord is dried and sewn into a pouch. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft    27. 21   CONTINUED:                                                    21
You're Cheyenne. Like that movie Powwow Highway. Did you see that?
Yes. We wear it for the rest of our                    * lives. If we lose it, our souls belong nowhere and when we die our souls walk the Earth looking for where we belong.
This was when?
Saturday morning. The Indian girl made us biscuits and gravy. We ate some, he walked out the door, this door right there. Got into his truck. And that was it.
He just left...?
I went to bed Saturday night, got up Sunday... still no Beverly. I didn't make much of it, thought he'd gone out on a bender.
Why would he do that? Not like he couldn't drink at home. Unless you were riding his ass.
I never said anything to him about his drinking, never got on him about it. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   28. 22   CONTINUED:                                                      22
Really.
Barbara, I swear. He could drink himself into obliv-uh, obliv-en-um...
Oblivion.
So Sunday, still no sign of him...
Yes, Sunday. No sign. I started getting worried, don'tcha know. That's when I got worked up about that safety deposit box.   We kept an awful lot of cash in that box, some expensive jewelry. I had a diamond ring in that box appraised at seven thousand dollars --
Wait, wait, wait, I'm missing something. Why do you care about a safety deposit box?
Well, I know what you'll say about this, but, your father and I had an urge-ment... arrangement. If something were to ever happen to one of us, the other one would go empty that box.
Because...
The money and jewelry gets rolled into the estate, bank seals the box until probate is settled. Can take months.
Right, that's right --
You're such a fucking cynic. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   29. 22   CONTINUED:                                                   22
I knew you would disapprove --
Okay, what about the safety deposit box?
I had to wait for the bank to open on Monday. And after I emptied that box, I called the police and reported him missing. Monday morning.
And you only had Ivy call me today?
I didn't want to worry you, honey --
Jesus Christ.                     Vi, you sure there wasn't some event that triggered his leaving, some incident.
You mean like a fight.
Yes.
No. And we fought enough... you know... but no, he just left.
Maybe he needed some time away from you.
That's nice of you to say.
Good old unfathomable Dad.
Oh. That man. What I first fell of with -- fell in love with, you know, was his mystery. I thought it was sexy as hell.  "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft     30. 22   CONTINUED:                                                     22 VIOLET You knew he was the smartest one in the room, knew if he just said something... knock you out. But he'd just stand there, little smile on his face... not say a word. Sexy.
You can't think of anything unusual --
He hired this woman. He didn't ask me, just hired this woman to come live in our house. Few days before he left.
You don't want her here.
She's a stranger in my house. There's an Indian in my house.
You have a problem with Indians, Violet?
I don't know what to say to an Indian.
They're called Native Americans now, Mom.
Who makes that decision?
It's what they like to be called. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   31. 23   CONTINUED:                                                   23
They aren't any more native than me.
In fact, they are.
What's wrong with Indian?
Why's it so hard to call people --
Let's just call the dinosaurs "Native Americans" while we're at it.
She may be an Indian, but she makes the best goddamn apple pie I ever ate.
He hired a cook. It doesn't make any sense. We don't eat.
And now you get biscuits and gravy. Kind of nice, huh?
Nice for you, now. But you'll be gone soon enough, never to return.
 Mom...
When was the last time you were here?
Don't get started on that --         Really, I don't even remember.
I'm very dutiful, Mom, I call, I write, I send presents --
You do not write -- "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   32. 23   CONTINUED:                                                   23
Presents on birthdays, Mother's Day --
Because you're "dutiful."
All right, now --
I don't care about you two. I'd like to see my granddaughter every now --
Well, you're seeing her now.
But your father. You broke his heart when you moved away.
That is wildly unfair.
Am I going to have to             You know you were Beverly's separate you two?                 favorite; don't pretend you don't know that.
I'd prefer to think my parents loved all their children equally.
I'm sure you'd prefer to think that Santy Claus brought you presents at Christmas, too. If you'd had more than one child, you'd know a parent always has favorites. Mattie Fae was my mother's favorite. Big deal. I got used to it. You were your Daddy's favorite. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   33. 23   CONTINUED:                                                   23
Broke his heart.
What was I supposed to do?! Colorado gave Bill twice the money he was making at TU --
Why are we even getting into this?
You think Daddy wouldn't have jumped at the chance Bill got?
You're wrong there. You never would've gotten Beverly Weston out of Oklahoma.
Daddy gave me his blessing.
`S what he told you.
Now you're going to tell me the true story, some terrible shit Daddy said behind my back?
Hey, enough. Everybody's on edge --
Beverly didn't say terrible things behind your back --
Vi, come on --
He just told me he's disappointed in you because you settled. He thought                  * you had talent, as a writer.                         *
Daddy never said anything like that to you. What a load of absolute horseshit. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   34. 23   CONTINUED:                                                      23
Oh, horseshit, horseshit, let's all say horseshit. Say horseshit, Bill.
Horseshit.
Are you high?
Excuse me.
I mean literally. You taking something?
A muscle relaxer.
Listen to me: I will not go through this with you again.
I don't know what you're talking about.
These fucking pills? Calls at three                     * AM about people in your backyard?
Stop yelling at me!
The police, all the rest of it?
It's not the same thing. I didn't have a reason.
So now it's okay to get hooked because you have a reason. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   35. 24   CONTINUED:                                                    24
I'm not hooked on anything.
I don't want to know if you are or not, I'm just saying I won't go --
I'm not.   I'm in pain.
Because of your mouth.
Yes, because my mouth burns from the chemotheeeahh --
Are you in a lot of pain?
Yes, I'm in pain. I have got... gotten cancer. In my mouth. And it burns like a... bullshit. And Beverly's disappeared and you're yelling at me.
I'm not yelling at you.
You couldn't come home when I got cancer but as soon as Beverly disappeared you rushed back --
I'm sorry... you're right. I'm sorry.
Know where I think he is? I think he got some whiskey, a carton of cigarettes, and a couple of good spy novels... I think he got out on the boat, steered it to a nice spot, close to shore... and he's fishing, and reading, and drinking, maybe even writing a little. I think he'll walk right through that door any time. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft    36.
Hi, again... Am I bugging you?
No, do you need something?
No, I thought maybe you'd like to smoke a bowl with me?
No, thank you.
Okay. I didn't know.  Do you mind if I smoke a bowl?
I.   No, I --
Mom and Dad don't mind. You won't get into trouble or anything.
Okay.
Okay. You sure?
I say they don't mind. If they knew I smuggled this on the plane? And sat there sweating like in that movie Midnight Express. Did you see that?
I don't think so.
I just mean they don't mind that I smoke pot. Mom kind of does. I think cause Dad smokes pot too, and she wishes he didn't.  You sure?
Yes.   No.    I'm fine.
Wow, are those your parents?
Mm-hm, their wedding picture.
Their costumes are fantastic.    Are they still together?
My father passed away last year.
Oh.    Sorry.
That's okay. Thank you.
Were you close?
Yes.   Very.
My Mom and Dad are separated now.
I'm sorry. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   38. 26    CONTINUED:                                                      26
He's fucking one of his grad students. I don't care --aside from the pathetic English and Humanities cliche, like all those departmental dicks fucking their students -- he can fuck who he wants and that's who teachers meet, students. He was just a turd the way he didn't give Mom a chance to respond or anything. What sucks now is she's on my ass cause she's afraid I'll have some post-divorce freak-out and become some heroin addict or shoot everybody at school. Or God forbid, lose my virginity. I don't know what it is about Dad splitting that put Mom on hymen patrol.  Don't say anything about Mom and Dad; okay? They want to play it low key.
Ivy leave?
 I'd forgotten about the lightning bugs.
Look what I found...
We have copies.
I don't remember a hardback edition. Think this is worth something... first edition, hardback, mint condition? Academy Fellowship, Wallace Stevens Award? This book was a big deal.
It wasn't that big a deal.
In those circles, it was.
Those are small circles.
"Dedicated to my Violet." That's nice. Christ, probably every word he wrote after this he had to be thinking, "What are they going to say, are they going to compare it to Meadowlark?"
Jean go to bed?
Just turned out the light. You'd think at some point, you just write something anyway and who cares what they say about it. I don't know --
Will you shut up about that fucking book?! You are just dripping with envy over these thirty poems my father wrote back in the late sixties, for God's sake. Y'hear yourself?
I have great admiration for these poems -- "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   40. 27   CONTINUED:                                                   27
My father didn't write anymore for a lot of reasons, but critical opinion was not one of them, hard as that may be for you to believe.
What are you attacking me for?   I haven't done anything.
I'm sure that's what you tell Sissy, too, so she can comfort you, reassure you, "No, Billy, you haven't done anything."
Why are you bringing that up?
They're all symptoms of your male menopause, whether it's you struggling with the "creative question," or screwing a girl who still wears a retainer.
All right, look, I'm not going to be held hostage here while you attack me. And her name is Cindy.
I know her stupid name -- do me the courtesy of recognizing when I'm demeaning you.
Violet really has a way of putting you in attack mode, you know that? You feel such rage for her you can't help dishing it --
Psychoanalyze me right now, I skin you.
You may not agree with my methods, but you know I'm right -- "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   41. 27   CONTINUED:                                                   27
"Your methods." Thank you, Doctor, but I actually don't need any help from my mother to feel rage.
You want to argue? Is that what you need to do? Pick a subject, alright, let me know what it is, so I have a fighting --
The subject is me! I am the subject, you narcissistic motherfucker! I am in pain! I need help!
I've copped to being a narcissist. We're the products of a narcissistic generation.
You can't do it, can you? You can't talk about me for two seconds --
You called me a narcissist!
You do understand that it hurts, to go from sharing a bed with you for twenty-three years to sleeping by myself.
I'm here, now. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   42. 29   CONTINUED:                                                      29
Oh, men always say shit like that, as if the past and the future don't exist.
It's just horseshit, to avoid talking about the things they're afraid to say.
I'm not necessarily keen on the notion of saying things that would hurt you.
Like what?
We have enough on our hands with your parents right now, let's not revisit this.
When did we visit this to begin with? I still don't know what happened. Do I bore you, intimidate you, disgust you? Is this just about the pleasures of young flesh, teenage pussy? I really need to know.
You need to know now? With Beverly missing, and your mother crazy as a loon? You want to do this now?
You're right. I'll just hunker down for a cozy night's sleep upstairs. Next to my husband.
This discussion deserves our   care. And patience. We'll both be    in a better frame of mind to talk   about this once your father's come   home.
Mom?
Mom, wake up, the sheriff's here.
Did you call them?    I dig in call them.
Mom.    The sheriff is here.
Inna esther?
What?
Inna esther broke. `N pays me `em...sturck...struck.
Come on.   Leave her there.
Go back to bed, sweetheart....
What happened?
Couple old boys running jug lines in the lake hooked him. Pulled him up.
He drowned. That's how he died, from drowning?
Looks it.     Yes, sir.
Is there any way to determine if he... I mean is this an accident, or suicide --?
There's really no way to tell.
What's your guess?
...Suicide.
How does a a person jump in the water... and choose not to swim?
What about Aunt Ivy?
I guess we'll stop on the way. Christ, I need to call Karen, too. Why the fuck am I brushing my hair?
Izza story. Barely's back.    Did sum Beer-ley come home?
Ma'am?
Gizza cig... some cigezze?    Cig-zezz, cig-zizz... cig-uhzzz...
In the archa, archa-tex? I'm in the bottom. Inna bottom of them.  Mm, good beat, right?
Barbara?! Is Barbara here?!
 Right here, Mom...
Mm, good beat, right?   Idn't it's a good beat?  "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   47. 40   CONTINUED:                                                   40 VIOLET Mmmm, I been on the music... pell man onna sheriff. Armen in tandel s'lossle, s'lost? Lost?! From the day, the days. Am Beerly... and Beverly lost?
And then you're here. And Barbara, and then you're here, and Beverly, and then you're here, and then you're here, and then you're here, and then you're here, and then you're here...
I used to go out with that boy. That man.
What man? The Sheriff?
In high school. He was my prom date.
You're kidding.
Day of the prom, his father got drunk and stole his car, stole his own son's car, went somewhere, Mexico. Deon showed up at the door. He'd been crying. Confessed he didn't have a way to take me to the prom. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   48. 42   CONTINUED:                                                   42
So we got a six-pack and broke into the chapel, stayed up all night talking and kissing. Now here he is, showing me --  It's so surreal. Thank God we can't tell the future. We'd never get out of bed.
Let me go first, see what they need.
Listen to me: die after me, all right? I don't care what else you do, where you go, how you screw up your life, just... survive. Outlive me, please.
Holy shit, that's Karen.
Do you remember your Aunt Karen?
Kind of...
That must be this year's man. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   50. 48   CONTINUED:                                                      48
I spent so    much time in our bedroom pretending    my pillow was my husband and did he    like the dinner I made and where were    we going to vacation that winter and    he'd surprise me with tickets to    Belize and we'd kiss.
I mean I'd kiss my pillow, and then I'd tell him I'd been to the doctor that day and I'd found out I was pregnant. I know how pathetic that sounds, but it was innocent enough. Then real life takes over, cause it always does --
-- uh-huh --
Things don't work out like you planned. That pillow was a better husband than any real man I'd ever met; this parade of men fails to live up to your expectations, all of them so much less than Daddy or Bill. You punish yourself, tell yourself it's your fault you can't find a good one. I don't know how well you remember Andrew...
No, I remember. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   51. 49   CONTINUED:                                                   49
I loved him so intensely, so the things he did wrong were just opportunities for me to make things right. If he cheated on me or called me a cunt, I'd think "No, love is forever, so here's an opportunity to make an adjustment in the way you view the world."
And thank God one day I looked in the mirror and said, "Moron," and walked out, but it kicked off this whole period of reflection, how hard I had screwed it up, where'd I go wrong. That's when I got into those books and discussion groups --
And Scientology too, right, or something like that --?
Exactly, and finally one day, I threw it all out, I said, "It's me, just me with my music on the stereo, my glass of wine and Bloomers my cat. I don't need anything else, I can live my life with myself." I got my license, threw myself into my work, sold a lot of houses, and that's when I met Steve.
That's how it works, you only find it when you're not looking, you turn around and there it is: Steve. Ten years older than me, but a thinker, and he's just so good. He's a good man and he's good to me and he's good for me.
The best thing about him, for me, is that now what I think about is now. I live now. My focus, my life, my world is now. I don't give a care about the past anymore, the mistakes I made, the way I thought. And you can't plan the future cause as soon as you do, something happens, some terrible thing happens --
Like your father drowning himself.
That's exactly what I mean. You take it as it comes, here and now! Steve had a huge presentation today for some big-wig government guys who could be important for his business, something he's put together for months, and as soon as we heard about Daddy, he cancelled his meeting. He has his priorities straight. And you know what the kicker is?  Do you know what the kicker --?
What's the kicker?
We're going to Belize on our honeymoon!
Sorry.   Hot flash.
It won't kill you to try it on -- "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft    53. 51   CONTINUED:                                                      51
Oh, this is a sweet one, Vi --
I find this a tidge morbid, frankly --
It's not my style, Mom.
You don't have a style, that's the point.
Where was this taken?
New York.    On the first book tour.
I don't have your style, I have a style of my own.
You wore a suit to your father's funeral. A woman doesn't wear a suit to a funeral.
God, you're weird; it's a black suit.
You look like a magician's assistant.
Little Charles has been talking about moving to New York. Can you picture that?
Don't discourage him now --
He wouldn't last a day in that city. They'd tear him apart.
Stop being so sensitive.
He overslept? For his Uncle's funeral? A noon service?
I'm sure there's more to the story --
Don't make excuses for him. That's what Charlie does. Thirty-seven years old and can't drive? Who can't drive?
I've seen a chimp drive.
Why are you giving away your clothes?
All this shit's going. I don't plan to spend the rest of my days looking at what used to be. I want that shit in the office gone, I want these clothes I'm never going to wear gone. I mean look at these fucking shoes --  Even if I didn't fall on my face, can you imagine anything less attractive, my swollen ankles and varicose veins? And my toenails, good God: anymore they could dig through cement.
You get a read off Steve?   Did you like him?
We said two words to each other -- "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   55. 52   CONTINUED:                                                        52
You get a feel, though, don't you? Did you get a feel?
He seemed very nice, sweetheart --
He is, and --
-- but what I think doesn't matter. I'm not marrying him --
I guess what I'm telling you is that I'm happy. I've been unhappy most of my life,   my adult life. I doubt you've been aware of that. I know our lives have led us apart, you, me and Ivy. Maybe we're not as close as, as close as some families --
Yeah, we really need to talk about Mom, what to do about Mom --
-- but I think I haven't wanted to live my unhappiness in view of my family. But now I'm just really happy. I'd like us to get to know each other a little better.
Yes.    Yes.
Okay.   Yes. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   56.
Hurry, okay?
I will, sweetheart.
Is it always this hot?
Usually it's hotter.
Hard to imagine.  How old are you, about, seventeen?
Fourteen.
Fourteen, right... Know what I was doing when I was fourteen? Cattle processing. Know what that is?
It doesn't sound good.
Slaughterhouse sanitation.
That's disgusting.
I don't recommend it. But hey. Put food on the table. Get it?
What's that smell?
Dumpster over there?
Nah, that's not what I'm smelling.
What are you doing?
Do I smell what I think I smell?
What do you smell?
What do you think I smell?
I think you smell that dumpster.
Is that... pot? You smoking pot?
No.
You can tell me.
No.
You a little dope smoker?  Then you are in luck. Because I just happen to have some tasty shit. And I am going to hook you up.
That'd be so great. I just smoked my last bowl and I really need to get fucked up.
You what? "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft      58. 53   CONTINUED:                                                      53
I really need to get fucked up --
You need to get what?
You're bad --
No Pinots, but they had some decent California Merlots.
Look at me.  Look at me.
You're beautiful, Mom.
I was beautiful. Not anymore.
One of those lies we tell to give us comfort. Women are beautiful when they're young and not after. Men can still preserve their sex appeal into old age. Not those men like you see with shorts and those little purses around their waists. Some men can maintain a weary masculinity. Women just get old and fat and wrinkly.
I beg your pardon? "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   59. 54   CONTINUED:                                                   54
Think about the last time you went to the mall and saw some sweet little gal and thought she's a cute trick. What makes her that way? Taut skin, firm boobs, an ass above her knees.
I'm still very sexy, thank you very much.
You're about as sexy as a wet card- board box, Mattie Fae, you and me both. Look, wouldn't we be better off if we stopped lying about these things and told the truth? "Women aren't sexy when they're old." I can live with that. Can you live with that?
What about Sophia Loren? What about Lena Horne? She stayed sexy till she was eighty.
The world is round. Get over it. Now try this dress on.
I'm sorry, I won't.
You don't know how to attract a man. I do. That's something I always --
We just buried my father, I'm not trying to attract --!
I'm not talking about today, dummy, this is something you can wear --
I have a man. All right?   I have a man.
You said you weren't looking for a man -- "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   60. 54   CONTINUED:                                                      54
And I'm not. Because I have one. Okay? Now will you leave it alone?
I wish you both could see the brainsick looks on your faces --
Who is it?
Nobody.   Forget it --
Tell us, is he someone from school? How old is he, what's he do --?
I'm not telling you anything so --
You have to tell us something!
No, I really don't.
Are you in love, Ivy?
I...I don't...I'm...
No, we maintain the accounts off- shore, just until we get approvals.
To get around approvals? "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   61. 55   CONTINUED:                                                       55
To get around approvals until we get approvals. There's a lot of red tape, bureaucracy, I don't know how much you know about Florida, Florida politics --
Only what I read and that's --
Right, right, this kind of business in particular.
...Charlie?
Picking up Little Charles.
Little Charles?
His son. I'm sorry, what is your                         * business again?
You know, it's essentially security work. The situation in the Middle East is perpetually dangerous, so there's a tremendous amount of money involved.
Security work. You mean... mercenary?
Give.   Me.     The wine.
Is that what you were in such a hurry to get home for? What the hell's on TV that's so important you?
Phantom of the Opera, 1925.
For God's sake, you can get it at any Blockbuster.
They're showing it with the scene in color restored.
Cool.
Let me make sure I've got this: when you threw a fit about going to the store with your dad... Hey, look at me.  And you were so distraught over the start time of your Grandpa's funeral. Was this your concern? Getting back here in time to watch Phantom of the Fucking Opera?
I guess.
Phantom of the Opera, huh?
Huh-uh.
Hi, doodle.
 Hey, baby. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   63. 56   CONTINUED:                                                   56
 Hi, doodle!
Come on, I want to show you our old fort. Man, the air in here just doesn't move.
Hook you up, later.
I'm sorry, Dad.
No need to apologize.
I know Mom's mad at me.
Don't worry about her.
What did she say?
Your mother, she says what she says.
I set the alarm. I did.
I know you did. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   64. 57   CONTINUED:                                                      57
I loved Uncle Bev, you know that.
Stop apologizing.
The power must've gone out. I woke up and the clock was blinking noon. That means the power went out, right?
It's okay.
I missed his funeral!
It's a ceremony. It's ceremonial. It doesn't mean anything compared to what you have in your heart.  Hold on, comb your hair.
Uncle Bev must be disappointed in me.
Your Uncle Bev has got bigger and better things ahead of him. He doesn't have time for spite. He wasn't that kind of man anyway --
Hey, hey. It's okay. It's okay, now...
Just... I know how things are. I know how they feel about me and something like this... you want to be there for people, and I missed Uncle Bev's funeral, and I know how they feel about me --
How who feels about you?    Feels what about you? "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   65. 57   CONTINUED:                                                   57
All of them. I know what they say.
They don't say things about you --
I see how they are. I don't blame them. I'm sorry I let you down, Dad.
You haven't let me down. You never let me down. Now listen...you're wrong about these people, they love you. Some of them haven't gotten a chance to see what I see: a fine man, very loving, with a lot to offer. Now take this...  Give me my comb. Stand up straight, look folks in the eye. Stop being so hard on yourself.
I love you, Dad.
Love you too, son.
Phantom of the Opera --
You don't remember what it was like to be fourteen?
She's old enough to exhibit a little character. But that's something you normally learn from your parents.
That's a shot across my bow, right? I missed something. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   66. 58   CONTINUED:                                                      58
Really? Instilling character: our burden as parents.
I got that part.
And you really haven't been much of a parent lately, so it's tough to --
Just because you and I are struggling with this Gordian knot doesn't mean --
Nice, "Gordian knot," but her fourteen- year-old self might view it differently, might consider it "abandonment" --
Oh, come on, she's a little more sophisticated than that, don't you think?
Pretty fucking sophisticated, the restored whatever from Phantom of the Opera, I know that makes your dick hard --
Barbara --
Precocious little shit.
I'm not defending her. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   67. 59   CONTINUED:                                                   59
 I'm not blaming her, because         I'm on your side. How can we I don't expect her to act any        fight when I'm on your side? differently when her father          Barbara...Barbara, settle is a selfish son-of-a-bitch.         down!
Be a father! Help me!
I am her father, goddamn it!
Her father in name only!
I have not forsook my responsibilities!
It's "forsaken," big shot!
Actually, "forsook" is also an acceptable usage --!
Oh, "forsook" you and the horse you rode in on --
You don't fight fair.
I've seen where that gets me! I'm sick of the whole notion of the enduring female. GROW UP! Cause while you're going through your fifth puberty, the world is falling apart and your kid can't handle it! "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   68. 60   CONTINUED:                                                   60
Our kid is just trying to deal with this goddamn madhouse you've dragged her into.
This madhouse is my home.
Think about that statement for a second, why don't you?
Jean is here with me because this is a family event.
Jean's here with you because she's a buffer between you and the shrill insanity of your mother.
Y'know, you'd have a lot more credibility if you had any credibility.
You can't resist, can you?
You're a pretty easy mark.
You're so goddamn self-righteous, you know? You're so --
Surely you must've known when you started porking Pippi Longstocking you were due for a little self- righteousness, just a smidge of indignation on my part --
Maybe I split because of it.
Is this your confession, then, when you finally unload all? "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   69. 60   CONTINUED:                                                    60
You're thoughtful, Barbara, but you're not open. You're passionate, but you're hard. You're a good, decent, funny, wonderful woman, and I love you, but you're a pain in the ass.
August... your month. Locusts are raging, "Summer psalm become summer wrath." `Course it's only August out there. In here... who knows?  All right... okay. "The Carriage held but just Ourselves," dum-de-dum...mm, best I got... Emily Dickenson's all I got... something something, "Horse's Heads Were Toward Eternity..."
That's for me. One for me.
For My Violet...
For the girls, God love `em.
Mom?!   Food's on the table!
This is lovely! You do all this?
Turn that off, it's time to eat.
Don't suppose I could eat in here?
You suppose right.
Did I hear Little Charles?
He went back out to the car.
Mom's casserole.
They said you overslept.
Maybe I purposely accidentally overslept. I don't know. I'm sorry.
Please. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   71. 63   CONTINUED:                                                   63
I know you had one of the worst days of your life and I'm sorry if I --
We don't have to do that with each other.
You're breaking our rule.
They're on to me. Not us, just me. I told them I was seeing someone. I didn't tell them who. I just wanted you to know, in case it came up.  What?  Charles...
I adore you.
Pass the casserole, please?
My casserole's coming.
I'll eat some of yours, too --
 Mom?! Let's eat!
There he is. I wanted to put you at a kid's table but they wouldn't let me.
Where do you want this? "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft      72. 64   CONTINUED:                                                      64
You goddamn clumsy goofball!
What about me? I'm hurt.
It's just an accident.
That's my casserole!
Let it go, Mattie Fae.              It's not a party until someone spills something.
Jean, you didn't get any chicken.
No, she won't --                    I don't eat meat.
You don't eat meat.                 Good for you.
"Don't eat meat." Okay. Who wants chicken? Little Charles, chicken?
Just put it on his plate for him or he's liable to burn the house down. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   73. 64   CONTINUED:                                                    64
All right, Mattie Fae.
Mom...!
Barb... will you put this?
Yeah, sure.
I see you gentlemen have stripped down to your shirt fronts. I thought we were having a funeral dinner, not a cockfight.
Someone should probably say grace.  Barbara?
Uncle Charlie should say it. He's the patriarch around here now.
I am?   Oh, I guess I am.
By default.
Okay.  Dear Lord...
We ask that you watch over this family in this sad time, O Lord...  "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   74. 64   CONTINUED:                                                      64 CHARLIE that you bless this good woman and keep her in your, in your... grace.
I have to take this.
We ask that you watch over Beverly, too, as he, as he... as he... makes his journey. We thank thee, O Lord, that we are able to join together to pay tribute to this fine man, in his house, with his beautiful daughters. We are truly blessed in our, our fellowship, our togetherness, our... our fellowship. Thank thee for the food, O Lord, that we can share this food and replenish our bodies with... nutrients. We ask that you help us... get better. Be better people.
We recognize now more than ever the power, the... joy of family. We ask that you bless and watch over this family. Amen.
Amen.   Sorry folks.
Let's eat.
Barb, have any use for that sideboard?
Hm?
That sideboard there, you have any interest in that? "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   75. 64   CONTINUED:                                                    64
This?   Well... no.   I mean, why?
I'm getting rid of a lot of this stuff and I thought you might want that sideboard.
No, Mom, I... I wouldn't have any way to get that home to Colorado.
Really pretty.
Mm.   Maybe Ivy'll take it.
I have something like that, remember --
Clearing all this out of here. I want to have a brand new everything.
I. I guess I'm just sort of... not prepared to talk about your stuff.
Suit yourself.
This food is just spectacular.
You like your food, Mom?
I haven't tried much of it, yet --
Johnna cooked this whole meal by herself.
`S what she's paid for.
Y'all did know she's getting paid, right?
Jean, so I'm curious, when you say you don't eat meat, you mean you don't eat meat of any kind?
Right.
And is that for health reasons, or...?
When you eat meat, you ingest an animal's fear.
Ingest what? It's fur?
Fear.
I thought she said --
How do you do that? You can't eat fear.
Sure you can. What happens to you, when you feel afraid? Doesn't your body produce all sorts of chemical reactions?
Does it?
Adrenaline, and, and --
Your body goes through a whole chemical process when it experiences fear. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   77. 64   CONTINUED:                                                   64
-- yep, and cortisol --
Don't you think an animal experiences fear?
You bet it does. I used to work in a cattle processing plant, lot of fear flying around that place.
So when you eat an animal, you're eating all that fear it felt when it was slaughtered to make food.
Wow. You mean I've been eating fear, what, three times a day for sixty years?
This one won't have a meal `less there's meat in it.
I guess it's the way I was raised, but it just doesn't seem like a legitimate meal `less it has some meat somewhere --
If I make a pasta dish of some kind, he'll be like, "Okay, that's good for an appetizer, now where's the meat?"
"Where's the meat?" Isn't that some TV commercial, the old lady says, "Where's the meat?"
"Beef," "Where's the beef?"
 "Where's the meat?!" "Where's the meat?!" "Where's the meat?!"
That's pleasant. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft    78. 64   CONTINUED:                                                       64
I thought the services were lovely.
Yes, weren't they --?                Preacher did a fine job.
Ehhhhh! I give it a...  Ehhhhh!
Really?   I thought it was --        Great, now we get some dramatic criticism.
Too much talk about poetry, teaching. He hadn't written any poetry to speak of since `65 and he never liked teaching worth a damn. Nobody talked about the good stuff. Man was a world- class alcoholic, more'n fifty years. Nobody told the story about that night he got wrangled into giving a talk at that TU alumni dinner...  Drank a whole bottle of Ron Bocoy White Rum -- don't know why I remember that -- and got up to give this talk, and he fouled himself! Comes back to our table with this huge --
Yeah, I can't imagine why no one told that story.
I don't know much about poetry, but I thought his poems were extraordinary.  And your reading was very fine.
Thank you.
 Who are you? "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   79. 64   CONTINUED:                                                   64
Mom, this is my fiance, Steve, I introduced you at the church.
Steve Heidebrecht.
Hide-the-what?
Heidebrecht.
Hide-a-burrr...German, you're a German.
Well, German-Irish, really, I --
That's peculiar, Karen, to bring a date to your father's funeral. I know the poetry was good, but I wouldn't have really considered it date material --
Jesus.
He's not a date, he's my fiance. We're getting married on New Years. In Miami, I hope you can make it.
I don't really see that happening, do you? Steve. That right? Steve?
Yes, ma'am.
You ever been married before?
That's personal.
I don't mind. Yes, ma'am, I have.
More'n once? "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft    80. 64   CONTINUED:                                                    64
Three times, actually, three times before this --
You should pretty much have it down by now, then.
 Right, right --
I had that one pegged. I mean, look at him, you can tell he's been married.
I took Steve out to show him the old fort and it's gone!
That's been gone for years.        That made me so sad!
What is this now?
Our old fort, where we used to play Cowboys and Indians.
Daddy said rats were getting in there.
Karen! Shame on you! Don't you know not to say Cowboys and Indians? You played Cowboys and Native Americans, right Barb?
What did you take?   What pills?
Lemme alone --
Uh-oh! "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   81. 64   CONTINUED:                                                     64
What is it?
UH-OH!
What's the matter?
I got a big bite of fear! I'm shakin' in my boots! Fear never tasted so good.
Right, right, it's pretty good once you get used to the taste.
I catch her eating a cheeseburger every now and again.
I do not!
Double cheeseburger, bacon, extra fear.
Mom, you are such a liar!
Y'know...if I ever called my mom a liar? She would've knocked my goddamn head off my shoulders.
You girls know there's a will.
Mom... "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   82. 64   CONTINUED:                                                    64
We took care of it some time back.
Mom, we don't want to talk about this.
I want to talk about it. What about what I want to talk about, that count for anything?  Bev made some good investments, believe it or not, and we had money for you girls in his will, but we talked it over after some years passed and decided to change things, leave everything to me. We never got around to taking care of it legally, but you should know he meant to leave the money to me.
Okay.
Okay?  Okay?
Okay.
Karen?   Okay?
Okay.
Okay.
Okay. But now some of this furniture, some of this old shit you can just have. I don't want it, got no use for it. Maybe I should have an auction.
Sure, an auction's a fine idea -- "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   83. 64   CONTINUED:                                                      64
Some things, though, like the silver, that's worth a pretty penny. But if you like I'll sell it to you, cheaper'n I might get in an auction.
Or you might never get around to the auction and then we can just have it for free after you die.
Barbara...
You might at that.
Excuse me, Bill? I'm wondering, the reading you did, those poems --?
Where are you living now, Bill? You want this old sideboard?
I beg your pardon.
You and Barbara are separated, right? Or you divorced already?
...We're separated.
 Thought you could slip that one by me, didn't you?
What is the matter with you?
Nobody slips anything by me. I know what's what. Your father thought he's slipping one by me, right? No way. I'm sorry you two're having trouble, maybe you can work it out. Bev'n I separated a few times, course we didn't call it that. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   84. 64   CONTINUED:                                                    64
Help us to benefit from an illustration of your storybook marriage.
Truth is, you can't compete with a younger woman. One of those unfair things in life. Is there a younger woman involved?
You've said enough on this topic, I think.
Yes.   There's a younger woman.
Y'see?   Odds're against you there, babe.
Mom believes women don't grow more attractive with age.
Oh, I disagree, I --
I didn't say they "don't grow more attractive," I said they get ugly. And it's not really a matter of opinion, Karen dear. You've only just started to prove it yourself.
You're in rare form today, Vi.
The day calls for it, doesn't it? What form would you have me in?
I just don't understand why you're so adversarial.
I'm just truth-telling.  Some people get antagonized by the truth. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   85. 64   CONTINUED:                                                    64
Everyone here loves you, dear.
You think you can shame me, Charlie? Blow it out your ass.
Three days ago... I had to identify my father's corpse. Now I'm supposed to sit here and listen to you viciously attack each and every member of this family --
Attack my family?! You ever been attacked in your sweet spoiled life?! Tell her `bout attacks, Mattie Fae, tell her what an attack looks like!
Stop telling me to settle down, goddam it! I'm not a goddamn invalid! I don't need to be abided, do I?! Am I already passed over?!
Honey --
 This woman came to my rescue when one of my dear mother's many gentlemen friends was attacking me, with a claw hammer! You think you been attacked?! What do you know about life on these Plains? What do you know about hard times?
I know you had a rotten childhood, Mom. Who didn't?
You DON'T know! You do NOT know! None of you know, `cept this woman right here and that man we buried today!  "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   86. 64   CONTINUED:                                                    64 VIOLET Sweet girl, sweet Barbara, my heart breaks for every time you ever felt pain. I wish I coulda shielded you from it. But if you think for a solitary second you can fathom the pain that man endured in his natural life, you got another think coming.                   * Do you know where your father lived from age four till about ten? Do you?
Do you?!
No.
No.
In a Pontiac Sedan. With his mother, his father, in a fucking car! Now what do you want to say about your rotten childhood? That's the crux of the biscuit: we lived too hard, then rose too high. We sacrificed everything and we did it all for you. Your father and I were the first in our families to finish high school and he wound up an award-winning poet. You girls, given a college education, taken for granted no doubt, and where'd you wind up?  Whadda you do?  Whadda you do?  Who're you? Jesus, you worked as hard as us, you'd all be President. You never had real problems so you got to make all your problems yourselves.
Why are you screaming at us?
Just time we had some truth's told `round here. Damn fine day, tell the truth. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   87. 64   CONTINUED:                                                      64
Well, the truth is... I'm getting full.
Amen.
There's dessert, too.
I saw her making those pies. They looked so good.
I have a truth to tell.
It speaks.
 No, no --
What is it, son?
I have a truth.
Little Charles...?
I...
Charles, not like this, please...
The truth is...I forgot to set the clock. The power didn't go out, I just...forgot to set the clock. Sorry, Mom. I'm sorry, everyone. Excuse me...I...I.
Scintillating.
 I gave up a long time ago... Little Charles is your project.
 Charles. His name is Charles.
Poor Ivy.     Poor thing.
Please, Mom...
Poor baby.
Please...
She always had a feeling for the underdog.
Don't be mean to me right now, okay?
Everyone's got this idea I'm mean all of a sudden.
Please, momma.
I told you, I'm just telling the --
You're a drug addict.
That is the truth! That's what I'm getting at! I, everybody listen... I am a drug addict. I am addicted to drugs, pills, specially downers.
Y'see these little blue babies? These are my best fucking friends and they never let me down. Try to get `em away from me and I'll eat you alive.
Gimme those goddamn pills --
I'll eat you alive, girl!
Holy shit --                      Barbara, stop it --!
Hey, now, c'mon --!               Oh God --
Goddamn you... goddamn you, Barb...
Shut up!  Okay. Pill raid. Johnna, help Ivy in the kitchen; Bill and Jean upstairs with me.  You remember how to do this, right?
Yeah... "August" 10/23/12 BLUE Draft   90. 65   CONTINUED:                                                     65
Go through everything. Every closet, every drawer, every shoebox.
What should we do?
Get Mom some black coffee, a wet towel and listen to her bullshit. Karen, call Dr. Burke.
You can't do this! This is my house! This is my house!
You don't get it, do you?
I'M RUNNING THINGS NOW!
That's all we could find.                              *
Why'd Dr. Burke write her so many                      * prescriptions? Doesn't he know --?                     *
It's not just him.   She's got a doctor                * in every port.                                         *
You knew this was going on again?
Now what?
Wine... lots of wine.                                     *
Think we can goad Mom into giving                         * Burke her "greatest" generation                           * speech tomorrow, tell him about the                       * claw hammer?                                              * "August" 11/11/12 Yellow Pages 92. A70   CONTINUED:                                                 A70
Won't do any good, he's part of the same generation.
"Greatest Generation," my ass. What                 * makes them so great? Because they                   * were poor and hated Nazis? Who doesn't fucking hate Nazis? Remember                * when we checked her in the psych ward, that stunt she pulled?
Big speech, she's getting clean, making this incredible sacrifice for her family, she's let us down but now               * she'll prove she's a good mother.
I wasn't there.
She smuggled Darvocet into the psych ward ...in her vagina. There's your Greatest Generation for you. She made this speech to us while she was clenching a bottle of pills in her cooch, for God's sake.
God, I've never heard this story. "August" 11/11/12 Yellow Pages 93. A70   CONTINUED:                                                  A70
Did you just say "cooch"?
The phrase "Mom's pussy" seems gauche.
You're a little more comfortable with "cooch," are you?
What word should I use to describe our mother's vagina?
I don't know, but --
"Mom's beaver"? "Mother's box"?
Oh God --                           Barbara!
One thing about Mom and Dad. You have to tip your cap to anyone who can stay married that long.
Karen.   He killed himself.
Is there something going on between you and Little Charles?
I don't know that I'm comfortable talking about that. "August" 11/09/12 Pink Draft   93A. A70   CONTINUED:                                                  A70
Because you know he's our first cousin.
Give me a break.
You know you shouldn't consider children.
I can't anyway, I had a hysterectomy last year.
Why?
Cervical cancer.
I didn't know.
Neither did I.
I didn't tell anyone except Charles. That's where it started between us.
Why not?
And hear it from Mom the rest of my life? She doesn't need another excuse to treat me like some damaged thing.
You might have told us.
You didn't tell us about you and Bill.
That's different.
Why?   Because it's you, and not me?
Because divorce is an embarrassing public admission of defeat. Cancer's fucking cancer, you can't help that. We're your sisters.
I don't feel that connection very                     * keenly.                                               *
I feel very connected, to both of you.                *
We never see you, you're never around,                * you haven't been around --                            * "August" 10/23/12 BLUE Draft   95. A70   CONTINUED:                                                  A70
I still feel that connection!                        *
I can't perpetuate these myths of family or sisterhood anymore. We're just people, some of us accidentally connected by genetics, a random selection of cells.                                  *
When did you get so cynical?
That's funny, coming from you.
Bitter, sure, but "random selection of cells?"
Maybe my cynicism came with the realization that the responsibility of               * caring for our parents was mine alone.
Don't give me that. I participated --
Till you had enough and got out, you and Karen both. I'm not criticizing. Do what you want. You did, Karen did.
And if you didn't, that's not my fault.
That's right, so don't lay this sister thing on me, all right? When I leave                 * here I won't feel any more guilty than               * you two did.                                         *
I can't believe your world view is                   * this dark.                                           *
You live in Florida.                                 *
You're thinking of leaving?
Charles and I are going to New York.
What are you going to do in New York?
We have plans.
Like what?
None of your business.
What about Mom?
What about her?
You feel comfortable leaving Mom here?
Do you?  You think she was tough when he was alive? Think what it's going to be like now.                                              *  You're going back to Miami, right?
Yes.
There you go, Barb. You want to know                 * what we're doing about Mom? Karen and                * I are leaving. You want to stay,                     * that's your decision. But nobody gets                * to point a finger at me. Nobody.                     *
My girls all together. Hearing you                   * just now gave me a warm feeling.                     *
You had a bath?                                          *
Uh-huh...                                                *
You need something to eat?   More                        * coffee?
No, honey, I'm fine.  This house must have heard a lot of Weston girl secrets.
I get embarrassed just thinking about it.
Oh... nothing to be embarrassed about. Secret crushes, secret schemes. Province of teenage girls. I can't imagine anything more delicate, or bittersweet. Some part of you girls I always identified with... no matter how old you get, a woman's hard-pressed to throw off that part of herself.  That smells good.
It's apple. You want some?
Yes, please.
I ever tell you the story of Raymond Qualls? Not much story to it. Boy I had a crush on when I was thirteen or so. Rough-looking boy, beat-up Levis, messy hair. Terrible underbite.  "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   100. 72   CONTINUED:                                                    72 VIOLET But he had these beautiful cowboy boots, shiny chocolate leather. He was so proud of those boots, you could tell, way he'd strut around, all arms and elbows, puffed up and cocksure. I decided I needed to get a girly pair of those same boots and I convinced myself he'd ask me to go steady. He'd see me in those boots and say "Now there's the gal for me."
Found the boots in a window downtown and just went crazy: praying for those boots, rehearsing the conversation I'd have with Raymond when he saw me in my boots. Must've asked my momma a hundred times if I could get those boots. "What do you want for Christmas, Vi?" "Momma, I'll give all of it up just for those boots." Bargaining, you know? She started dropping hints about a package under the tree she had wrapped up, about the size of a boot box, nice wrapping paper. "Now, Vi, don't you cheat and look in there before Christmas morning." Little smile on her face. Christmas morning, I was up like a shot, boy, under the tree, tearing open that box. There was a pair of boots, all right... men's work boots, holes in the toes, chewed up laces, caked in mud and dog shit. Lord, my momma laughed for days.
Please don't tell me that's the end of the story.
Oh, no.   That's the end.
You never got the boots? "August" 11/09/12 Pink Draft   101. 72   CONTINUED:                                                      72
No, huh-uh.
Okay, well, that's the worst story I ever heard. That makes me wish for a heartwarming claw hammer story.
My momma was a nasty-mean old lady.   I suppose that's where I get it from.
You're not nasty-mean. You're our mother and we love you.
Thank you, sweetheart.
Last time I spoke with my father, we talked about the state of the world, and he said, "You know, this country was always pretty much a whorehouse, but at least it used to have some promise. Now it's just a shithole." I think maybe he was talking about something else, something more specific, personal... this house? This family? His marriage? Himself? There was something sad in his voice-- not sad, he always sounded sad -- hopeless. As if it had already happened. As if whatever was disappearing had already disappeared. And no one saw it go. This country, this experiment, America, this hubris: what a lament, if no one saw it go.
Mrs. Fordham, are you going to fire me?
What? No. But I'll understand if you want to quit. I mean, there's work. And then there's work.
I'm familiar with this job. I can do this job. I don't do it for you or Mrs. Weston. Or even for Mr. Weston. Right? I do it for me.
Why?
I need the work.
Johnna, did my father say anything to you? "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   103. 76   CONTINUED:                                                   76
He just seemed like maybe he had... he                * talked about...  He talked a lot about his daughters, his three daughters, and his granddaughter. That was his joy.
Thank you. That makes me feel better. Knowing that you can lie.
The chemotherapy and the radiation, coupled with the overuse of pain medications --
-- right --
-- and without the benefit of more thorough testing, an MRI or CT scan, I believe your mother is showing signs of Mild Cognitive Impairment.
Mild Cognitive Impairment?
Brain damage. It may be time to consider placing her in a long term care facility. I'd certainly feel more comfortable knowing she was receiving that level of supervision.
That would make you comfortable?   You would be comfortable with that?
Of course, it's a family decision. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   104. 77   CONTINUED:                                                      77
You want us to send her to where, a psychiatric hospital?
Well, Beverly's gone.
Right. Not "gone" so much as "dead," but I see your point.
Legal guardianship for you and your sisters, with my recommendation, should be a simple --
Leave me out of this, thanks.
So you're thinking that if the three of us cooperated with you on a commitment end-around, we'd be less likely to sue your ass?
I'm sorry?
"Mild Cognitive Impairment?" Are you fucking kidding me? You really want to go before a judge and make a case for a couple radiation treatments and some chemo causing brain damage? Think you can make that stand up in court? When I'm sitting at the other table, doing this?
All right, I think --
Know whose name is on these bottles?
Your mother is a very --
Barb...
We'll hang on to the bucket of these we have at home. For evidence. For your trial.
Pull the car over.
We'll be home in a few minutes.
Pull the car over.  I'm going to be sick.
Mom?
Mom?!   Where are you going?
Goddamn it. Mom!
Where the fuck are you going, Mom?
There's nowhere to go.
I'm sorry.
Please, honey --
No, it's important I say this. I lost my temper at dinner and went too far.                    *
Barbara. The day, the funeral... the pills. I was spoiling for a fight and you gave it to me.
So... truce?
 Truce.
What now?
How do you mean?
Don't you think you should at least consider a rehab center?
I can't go through that again. No, I can do this. You got rid of my pills, right?
All we could find.
I don't have that many hiding places.
Mom, now, come on.
You wanna search me? "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   108. 79   CONTINUED:                                                     79
Uh... no.
If the pills are gone, I'll be fine. Just need a few days to get my feet under me.
I can't imagine what all this must be like for you right now. I just want you to know, you're not alone. If you need any help --
I don't need help.
I want to help.
I don't need your help.
Mom.
I don't need your help. I've gotten myself through some... I know how this goes: once all the talking's through, people go back to their own nonsense. I know that. So, don't worry about me. I'll manage. I get by.
Is the coast clear?
Never very.
What are you watching? "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   109. 80   CONTINUED:                                                        80
Television.
Can I watch it with you?
I wish you would.
I almost blew it last night.  Are you mad at me?
Nope.
I was trying to be brave.
I know.
I just... I want everyone to know that I got what I always wanted. And that means... I'm not a loser.
Hey.    Hey.
You're my hero.
Come on, help me push the pedal.
I wrote this for you.
Liberace. Get yourself together, we have to get home and take care of those damn dogs. They've probably eaten the drapes by now.
I'm sure the house is fine.
 Oh, look, honey, Little Charles has got the TV on.
No, I was just --
This one watches so much television, it's rotted his brain.
I'm sure that's not true.
What was it I caught you watching the other day?
I don't remember.
Mattie Fae --
You do so remember, some dumb talk                    * show about people swapping wives.
I don't remember.
You don't remember.  Too bad there isn't a job where they pay you to sit around watching TV. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   111. 80   CONTINUED:                                                   80
C'mon, Mattie Fae --
 Y'know he got fired from a shoe store?
Mattie Fae, we're gonna get in the car and go home and if you say one more mean thing to that boy I'm going to kick your fat Irish ass onto the highway. You hear me?
What the hell did you say--?
You kids go outside, would you please?
I don't understand this meanness. I look at you and your sister and the way you talk to people and I don't understand it. I can't understand why folks can't be respectful of one another. I don't think there's any excuse for it. My family didn't treat each other that way.
Maybe that's because your family --
You had better not say anything about my family right now. I mean it. We buried a man yesterday I loved very much. And whatever faults he may have had, he was a good, kind, decent person. And to hear you tear into your own son not even a day later dishonors Beverly's memory. We've been married thirty-eight years. I wouldn't trade them for anything. But if you can't find a generous place in your heart for your own son, we're not going to make it to thirty-nine.
I didn't mean to eavesdrop.   I froze.
That's -- you have a cigarette, hon?
No, I quit years ago.
So did I. Just sounded good to me. I thought at dinner... at that horrible dinner last night, seemed like, something might be going on between Ivy and Little Charles. Do you know if that's true?
Oh, this is...I'm not sure what to...
Look, just. Is it true?
Yes.    It's true.
Okay.   That can't happen.
This is   going to be difficult, uh... Ivy and   Little Charles have always marched   to their own... and I'd expect this to   be toughest on you --
Barb...?
They're in love. Or they think they are. What's the difference, right?
Honey --
I know it's unorthodox for cousins to get together, at least these days --
They're not cousins. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   113. 80   CONTINUED:                                                     80
-- but believe it or not, it's not as uncommon as you might --
Listen to me. They're not cousins.
Beg pardon?
Little Charles is not your cousin. He's your brother. He's your blood brother. He is not your cousin. He is your blood brother. Half-brother. He's your father's child. Which means that he is Ivy's brother. Do you see? Little Charles and Ivy are brother and sister.
Go away.
We're just going to --
Go away!   NOW! GO AWAY!
You and Dad.  Who knows this?
I do.    And you do.
Uncle Charlie doesn't suspect?
We've never discussed it.
What?!
We've never discussed it. Okay? "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   114. 80   CONTINUED:                                                      80
Did Dad know?
Yes.   Y'know, I'm not proud of this.
Really. You people amaze me. What, were you drunk? Was this just some --
I wasn't drunk, no. Maybe it's hard for you to believe, looking at me, knowing me the way you do, all these years. I know to you, I'm just your old fat Aunt Mattie Fae. I'm more than that, sweetheart, there's more to me than that. I don't know why Little Charles is such a disappointment to me. Maybe he, well, I don't know why. I'm disappointed for him, more than anything. I made a mistake, a long time ago. Okay? I paid for it. But the mistake ends here.
If Ivy found out, it would destroy her.
I'm sure as hell not gonna tell her. You have to find a way to stop it. You have to put a stop to it.
You weren't kidding, this stuff is strong.
Florida, baby. Number one industry.
Who cares? "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   115. 81   CONTINUED:                                                    81
Number one by far. Want a shotgun?  You don't know what a shotgun is?
I know what a shotgun is.
Not that kind of shotgun, here. Just put your lips right next to mine and you inhale while I exhale.
Okay.
Hold it.   Don't let it out.
That's a kick, huh?
...Show `em to me... I won't look. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   116. 84   CONTINUED:                                                    84
If you won't look, there's no point in showing them to you.
Okay, okay... I'll look.
You're just an old perv...
Christ, you got a great set. Show you mine if you'll show me yours.
I don't want to see yours, perv.
You ever seen one?
What are you doing?
Nothing.
You're gonna get us both in trouble.
I'm white and over thirty.    I don't get in trouble.
Oh my God...                         Ho, fuck!
Hold up there, lady, you don't --
Hey, goddamn it, careful!
Ow, goddamn --!
What happened?!
He was messing with Jean --
Honey, you're bleeding, you okay?
Jean, what are you doing up?
We were, I don't know --
Who was?   Are you alright?       Do I need to call a doctor?
Yeah, I'm fine.                   I don't know.
Johnna, what's going on?
He was messing with Jean, so I tuned him up.
Messing with, what do you         What...what's that mean? mean, messing with?
He was kissing and grabbing her. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft      118. 84   CONTINUED:                                                      84
I'll murder you, you prick!
I didn't do anything!
Mom, stop it!                        Settle down --!
You know how old that girl is?
 Tell them I didn't do anything!
She's fourteen years old!
Are you out of your goddamn          Barbara, just back off! mind?
Son-of-a-bitch is a goddamn sociopath!
What is the matter with you? Will you please stop freaking out?
Why don't you start at the beginning?
What are you even doing up?
Please, sweetheart, we need to know what went on here.
Nothing "went on." Can we just not make a federal case out of every thing? I came down for a drink, he came in... end of story. All right? "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft    119. 84   CONTINUED:                                                    84
That's not the end of the         That's not the end of the story.                            story.
We smoked pot, alright? We smoked a little pot, and we were goofing around, and then everything just went crazy.
What have I told you about        Then Johnna just chose to smoking that shit?! What did      attack him with a shovel? I say?
It's no big deal, nothing happened.
Just tell me what he did!
He didn't do anything!    What's the                   * big deal?
The big deal, Jean, is that you're fourteen years old.
Which is only a few years younger than you like `em.
I hate you!
Yeah, I hate you too, you little freak!
Jean--                            Let me go!
What's the matter with you? "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft      120. 84   CONTINUED:                                                      84
I can do without a speech.
Where is he?
Out at the car. We're leaving. Back to Florida, tonight, now. Me and Steve, together. Want to give me some grief about that?
Now wait just a goddamn --
You better find out from Jean exactly what went on before you start pointing fingers. Cause I doubt Jean's blameless in all this. And I'm not blaming her, just cause I said she's not blameless doesn't mean I've blamed her. I'm saying she might share in the responsibility. It's not cut and dried, black and white, good and bad. It lives where everything lives: somewhere in the middle. Where the rest of us live, everyone but you.
Karen--
He's not perfect. Just like the rest of us, down here in the muck. I'm no angel myself. I've done some things I'm not proud of. Things you'll never know about. I may even have to do some things I'm not proud of again. Cause sometimes life puts you in a corner that way.  "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   121. 85   CONTINUED:                                                     85 KAREN And I am   a human being, after all. Anyway.    You have your own hash to settle.    Before you start making speeches   to the rest of us.
Right...
Come January... I'll be in Belize. Doesn't that sound nice?
I'm taking Jean with me, heading back to Colorado in the morning.
She's too much for you right now.
Okay.
I'm sure you'll find a way to blame me for all this.
Yeah, well...  I can't make it up to Jean right now. She's just going to have to wait until I get back to Boulder.
You and Jean have about forty years left to fight and make up. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   122. 86   CONTINUED:                                                      86
 Why, what happens in forty years?
You die.
Oh, right.
I mean --
No. Right. I fail. As a mother, as a daughter, as a wife. I fail.
No, you don't.
I've physically attacked Mom and Jean in the span of twenty-four hours. You stick around here and I'll cut off your penis.
That's not funny.
You're never coming back to me, are you, Bill?
Never say never, but...
But no.
But no.
Even if things don't work out with you and Marsha.
Cindy.
Cindy. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   123. 86   CONTINUED:                                                   86
Right. Even if things don't work out.
And I'm never really going to understand why, am I?
Probably not.
Where are Bill and Jean going?
Karen, too?
Yeah...
Is she clean?
She's moderately clean. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   124. 87   CONTINUED:                                                     87
Moderately?
You don't like moderately?   Then let's say tolerably.
Is she clean, or not?
Back off.
I'm nervous.
Oh Christ, Ivy, not today.
I have to tell her, don't I? We're leaving for New York tomorrow.
That's not a good idea. For you and Charles to take this any further.
Where is this coming from?
Lot of fish in the sea. Surely you can rule out the one single man in the world you're related to.
I love the man I'm related to--
Fuck love, what a crock of shit. People can convince themselves they love a painted rock.
Looks great. What is it? "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   125. 88   CONTINUED:                                                    88
Catfish.
Bottom feeders, my favorite. You're nearly fifty years old, Ivy, you can't go to New York, you'll break a hip. Eat your catfish.
I have lived in this town, year in and year out, hoping against hope someone would come into my life--
Don't get all Carson McCullers on me. Now wipe that tragic look off your face and eat some catfish.
Howdy, Mom.
What's howdy about it?
Look, catfish for lunch.   Johnna!  You hungry?
Ivy, you should smile.   Like me.
Mom needs her lunch, please.
I'm not hungry.
You haven't eaten anything today. You didn't eat anything yesterday.
I'm not hungry.
Why aren't either of you dressed?                      * "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   126. 88   CONTINUED:                                                     88
We're dressed. We're not sitting here                   * naked, are we?                                          *
Yeah...                                                 *
Eat.
No.
Eat it.    Mom? Eat it.
No.
Eat it, you fucker.   Eat that catfish.
Go to hell.
That doesn't cut any fucking ice with me. Now eat that fucking fish.
Mom, I have something to talk to you--
No you don't.
Barbara--
No you don't. Shut up.    Shut the fuck up.
Please--
What's to talk about?
Mom-- "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   127. 88   CONTINUED:                                                      88
Forget it.     Eat that fucking fish.
I'm not hungry.
Eat it.
NO!
Mom, I need to--!
NO!
MOM!
EAT THE FISH, BITCH!
MOM, PLEASE!
Barbara...!
Okay, fuck it, do what you want.
I have to tell you something.
Ivy's a lesbian.
Barbara--
No, you're not.
No, I'm not--
Yes, you are. Did you eat your fish?
Barbara, stop it! "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   128. 88   CONTINUED:                                                    88
Eat your fish.
Barbara!
Eat your fish.
Barbara, quiet now--
Mom, please, this is important --
Eatyourfisheatyourfisheatyourfish--
What the fuck --
I have something to say.
Are we breaking shit?
`cause I can break shit --
See, we can all break shit.
Charles and I --
You don't want to break shit with me, muthah-fuckah --
Charles and I --
Johnna?!   Little spill in here!
Barbara, stop it!  Mom, Charles and I --
Little Charles --
Charles and I --
Little Charles --
Barbara --
You have to say Little Charles or she won't know who you're talking about.
Little Charles and I...
Little Charles and I are --
Little Charles and you are brother and sister. I know that.
Oh... Mom.
What?    No, listen, Little Charles --
I've always known that. I told you, no one slips anything by me.
Mom --
Don't listen. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   130. 88   CONTINUED:                                                   88
I knew the whole time Bev and Mattie Fae were carrying on. Charlie should have known too, if he wasn't smoking all that grass.
It's the pills talking.
Your father tore himself up over it, thirty some-odd years, but Beverly wouldn't have been Beverly if he didn't have plenty to brood about.
Mom, what are you...?
Oh honey...
Better you girls know now though, now you're older. Never know when someone might need a kidney.
Why in God's name did you tell me this?
Hey, what do you care?
You're monsters.
Come on now --
Monsters...
Who's the injured party here?
Ivy, listen --
Leave me alone.
When Mattie Fae told me, I didn't know what to do --
I was trying to protect you --
We'll go anyway, we'll still go away.
This is not my fault.
I didn't tell you, Mom told you! It wasn't me, it was Mom!
There's no difference.
We couldn't let Ivy run off with Little Charles. Just wouldn't be right.
She'll be back. She's a sweet girl, Ivy, and I love her to death. But she isn't strong. Not like you. Or me.
You knew about Daddy and Mattie Fae?
Oh sure. I never told them I knew. But your father knew. He knew I knew. But we never talked about it. I chose the higher ground.  If I'd had the chance, there at the end, I would've told him, "I hope this isn't about Little Charles, cause you know I know all about that." If I'd reached him at that motel, I would've said, "You'd be better off if you quit sulking about this ancient history."
...what motel?
I called over there on Monday after I got into that safety deposit box. But it was too late, he'd checked out.
How did you know where he was?
The note. He said I could call him over at the Country Squire Motel --
He left a note?
And I did, I called him on Monday. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft       133. 91   CONTINUED:                                                       91
After you got the money out of your                       * safety deposit box...
We had an arrangement. You have to                        * understand, for people like your                          * father and me, who never had any                          * money, ever, as kids, people from our                     * generation, that money is important.                      *
If you could've stopped Daddy from                        * killing himself, you wouldn't have                        * needed to get into your safety deposit                    * box.                                                      *
Well, hindsight's always twenty-                          * twenty, isn't it?                                         *
Did the note say he was going to kill himself?
Mom?
If I had my wits about me, I might've done it different. But I was, your father and me both, we were...
You were both fucked-up... You were                       * fucked-up... You are fucked-up.                           *
You'd better understand this, you smug little ingrate. There's only one reason Beverly killed himself and that's you. Think there's any way he would've done what he did if you were still here? No, just him and me, here in this house, in the dark, left to ourselves, abandoned, wasted lifetimes devoted to your care and comfort.  "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   134. 91   CONTINUED:                                                    91 VIOLET So stick that knife of judgment in me, go ahead, but make no mistake, his blood is just as much on your hands as it is on mine.
He did this though, not us. Can you imagine anything more cruel, to make me responsible? Just to weaken me, make me prove my character? So I waited, to get my hands on that safety deposit box. But I would have waited anyway. You want to show who's stronger, Bev? Nobody's stronger than me, goddamn it. When nothing is left, when everything is gone and disappeared, I'll be here.
Who's stronger now, you son-of-a- bitch?!
You're right, Mom.    You're the strong one.
...Barbara?
Barbara?
You and me. We're alike.
No...
Barbara, please.
I'm nothing like you...
Please, Barbara.
...Barbara?
Ivy?!    Ivy, you here?!
Barb?!   Ivy?!
Bev?! ...Bev?!
Johnna?!
"August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft    136.
Johnna... Johnna... Johnna...
And then you're gone, and Beverly, and then you're gone, and Barbara, and then you're gone, and then you're gone, and then you're gone --
"This is the way the world        --and then you're gone, and ends..."                          then you're gone --
"...this is the way the world ends, this is the way the world ends..."
--and then you're gone, and then you're gone...
