When I was lying there in the VA hospital, with a big hole blown through the middle of my life, I started having these dreams of flying.
Sooner or later though, you always have to wake up... CUT TO:
They can fix a spinal, if you've got the money. But not on vet benefits, not in this economy.
The Bengal tiger, extinct for over a century, is making a comeback. These cloned tiger cubs at the Beijing Zoo are...
I became a Marine for the hardship. To be hammered on the anvil of life. I told myself I could pass any test a man can pass.
Let's get it straight up front. I don't want your pity. I know the world's a cold-ass bitch.
You want a fair deal, you're on the wrong planet. The strong prey on the weak.
It's just the way things are.   And nobody does a damn thing.
All I ever wanted in my sorry-ass life was a single thing worth fighting for. CUT TO:
I hope you realize you've just lost a customer!
 Candy ass bitch.
If it ain't rainin' we ain't trainin'!
Are you Jake Sully?
Step off.    You're ruinin' my good mood.
It's about your brother. CUT TO:
The strong prey on the weak. A guy with a knife took all Tommy would ever be, for the paper in his wallet.
Jesus, Tommy.
The Suits' concern was touching.
Your brother represented a significant investment. We'd like to talk to you about taking over his contract.
The egghead and the jarhead.   Tommy was the scientist, not me. He was the one who wanted to get shot light years out into space to find the answers.
Me -- I was just another dumb grunt gettin' sent someplace I was gonna regret.
 Are we there?
We're there, Sunshine.
People, you have been in cryo for five years, nine months and twenty two days. You will be hungry, you will be weak. If you feel nausea, please use the sacks provided for your convenience. The staff thanks you in advance.
Exopacks on!
Remember people, you lose your mask you're unconscious in 20 seconds and you're dead in four minutes. Let's nobody be dead today, it looks bad on my report.
Exopack on, let's go!
Go directly into the base! Do not stop! Go straight inside!
Look at all that new meat.
Check it out, man.    Meals on wheels.
That is just wrong.
What're you two limpdicks starin' at?
Seen a lotta guys leave this place in a wheelchair. Never seen anybody show up in one.
You are not in Kansas any more... CUT TO:
... You are on Pandora, ladies and gentlemen. Respect that fact every second of every day.
Out beyond that fence every living thing that crawls, flies or squats in the mud wants to kill you and eat your eyes for jujubees.
We have an indigenous population of humanoids here called the Na'vi. They're fond of arrows dipped in a neurotoxin which can stop your heart in one minute. We operate -- we live -- at a constant threat condition yellow.
As head of security, it's my job to keep you alive.    I will not succeed --  -- not with all of you. If you wish to survive, you need a strong mental attitude, you need to follow procedure...
Nothing like an old-school safety brief to put your mind at ease. CUT TO:
Hey, you're Jake right? Tom's brother? You look just like him.  Sorry, I'm Norm Spellman, I went through avatar training with him.
He was a great guy -- funny.     It was a big shock to all of us.
Yeah.
And duh! -- obviously you look like him. I mean, if you weren't genetically identical, you wouldn't be taking over his avatar.
That's why I'm here.
So -- you want to go check it out? CUT TO:
Me and Norm were out here to drive these remotely controlled bodies called avatars. They're grown from human DNA mixed with DNA from the natives here.
Damn.   They got big.
Yeah, they mature on the trip out.  So the proprioceptive sims worked pretty well.
Yeah, they've got great muscle tone. Give us a few hours, you guys can take them for a spin.
It looks like him.
No, it looks like you.   This is your avatar now, Jake.
The idea is -- every driver is matched to his own avatar --
-- so their nervous systems are in tune. Or something. Which is why they offered me this gig, because I can link with Tommy's avatar, which was insanely expensive.  Is this right? I just say whatever in these videologs?
Yeah. You just need to get in the habit of documenting everything -- what you see, what you feel -- it's all part of the science. Good science starts with good observation.
Right.  So, whatever. Here I am. Doing science.  Never been in a lab before.
Log off. It's time to meet your boss for the next five years.
Grace Augustine is a legend. She's the head of the Avatar Program, and she wrote the book -- I mean literally wrote the book -- on Pandoran botany.
 That's because she likes plants better than people.
 Who's got my goddamn cigarette?!
And here she is, Cinderella back from the ball. Grace, I'd like you to meet Norm Spellman and Ja --
Norm. I hear good things about you. How's your Na'vi?
 May the All Mother smile upon our first meeting.
 Not bad. You sound a little formal.
 There is still much to learn.
Uh, Grace, this is Jake S----
 Yeah, yeah, I know who you are, and I don't need you. I need your brother.  You know -- the PhD who trained three years for this mission.
He's dead. I know it's a big inconvenience to everyone.
How much lab training have you had?   Ever run a gas chromatograph?
No.
Any actual lab work at all?
High school chemistry.   But I ditched.
You see? You see? They're pissing on us without even the courtesy of calling it rain.  I'm going to Selfridge.
Grace, that's not a good idea.
Here, tomorrow, oh eight hundred.   Try to use big words. CUT TO:
Parker, I used to think it was benign neglect, but now I see you're intentionally screwing us.
Grace.   You know I enjoy our little talks.
I need a research assistant, not some jarhead dropout.
Actually, we got lucky with him.
Lucky?   How is this in any way lucky?
Well -- lucky your guy had a twin brother, and lucky the brother wasn't an oral hygienist or something. A Marine we can use. I'm assigning him to your team as security escort.
The last thing I need is another trigger happy asshole out there!
Look, you're supposed to be winning the hearts and minds of the natives. Isn't that the whole point of your little puppet show? If you look like them, if you talk like them, they'll trust you?
But after -- how many years? -- relations with the indigenous are only getting worse.
That tends to happen when you use machine guns on them.
This is why we're here. Unobtanium. Because this little gray rock sells for twenty million a kilo. No other reason. This is what pays for the party. And it's what pays for your science. Comprendo?
Those savages are threatening our whole operation. We're on the brink of war and you're supposed to be finding a diplomatic solution. So use what you've got and get me some results. CUT TO:
How much link time have you logged?
Five hundred and twenty hours.
Like -- an hour.
Tell me you're joking.
Don't!   I got this.
So you just figured you'd come out here to the most hostile environment known to man, with no training of any kind, and see how it went? What was going through your head?
Maybe I was just tired of doctors telling me what I couldn't do.
Relax and let your mind go blank.    That shouldn't be hard for you.
Kiss the darkest part of my lily white --
Initiate link.
That's a gorgeous brain.     Nice activity.
Go figure.  Alright, I'm going in.
Phase-lock at forty percent.    He's in transition.
That's it.     Find your way home.
He's in.
Phase-lock ninety nine percent. The link is stable.
Take it slow, Jake. We need to check your motor control. Try touching your fingertips together --
Easy, Jake, I need you to sit down --
Jake! Wait, we have to run some tests --
Hey Marine!
Grace?
Well who'd you expect, numbnuts?   Think fast!
Motor control is looking good.
Hey, check it out.
I am a living god. CUT TO:
For you pogues, this is a banshee. A small one. See, they like it when I bring fresh meat out here. And this clearcutting really stirs up the hornet's nest. So keep your head on a swivel. If it moves, shoot it. If you're not sure it's moving -- shoot it! If it looks like a bunch of flowers you want to take home to Sally Rottencrotch -- SHOOT IT! What're you gonna do?
Shoot it, sir!
Outstanding. Let's roll.
That's kinda freaky.
Lights out amigos.     See ya' at dinner.
 Damn. Same old sack a' bones.
Sully -- Colonel wants to see you in the Armor Bay.
You guys're packing some heavy ordinance.
Yeah, `cause we're not the only thing flyin' around out there. Or the biggest. I'm gonna need you on a door gun, I'm a man short.
Yeah, no problem.
See ya on the flight-line, zero nine.  He's down there.
This low gravity makes you soft.  You get soft, Pandora will shit you out dead with zero warning.
I pulled your record, Corporal. Venezuela -- that was some mean bush. Nothing like this here, though. You got heart kid, coming out here.
I figured -- just another hellhole.
That servo's in, Colonel, if you want to try it.
I was in First Recon a few years ahead of you. More than a few. Two tours in Nigeria, not a scratch. I come out here and --
They could fix this if I rotated back. But you know what? I kinda like it. Reminds me every day what's out there. Besides, I can't leave --
This is my war, here.
The avatar program is a joke -- buncha limpdick scientists. But we have a unique opportunity here, you and I. A recon Marine in an avatar body could get me the intel I need, on the ground, right in the hostiles' camp.
Looks good.  I need you to learn about these savages, gain their trust. Find out how I can force their cooperation, or hit `em hard if they don't. Maybe you can keep some of my boys from going home like you. Or bagged-and-tagged.
 That sounds real good, Colonel.   So -- am I still with Augustine?
On paper. You walk like one of her science pukes, you quack like one, but you report to me. Can you do that for me?
Look, son -- I take care of my own. Get me what I need, I'll see you get your legs back when you rotate home. Your real legs.
Start calibrating. We're on the flight line in ten minutes.
What did Atilla want?
Just Marines comparin' tattoos.
 Yeah. Well, listen to me, Marine --
-- you're driving an avatar, now.     That means you're in my world, got it?
Got it.
That son of a bitch has screwed up this program enough. All this --  -- exists so we can go out there and build a bridge of trust to these people, who could teach us so much. But thanks to Quaritch and his thugs the Na'vi won't even talk to us anymore.
Then how's this supposed to work?
We have a new face.  You're fluent, you've studied the culture. You're non-threatening. The ones we know best -- the Omaticaya clan -- may give you a chance. Maybe you can get them back to the table before things go tits-up for good.
This is failing as a pep talk.
How do we contact them?
We don't. They contact us. If they see us taking our samples, treating the forest with respect --  Not trampling everything in sight -- they may reach out to us.
Or they may skin us and make a drum.
Just keep your mouth shut and let Norm do the talking.
Sturmbeest herd, one o'clock.
Looks like a bull, six cows and some juveniles.
The bull has the red on the dorsal armor?
Yo Chacon!     Get some!
Stay with the ship.  One idiot with a gun's enough.
Whatever you say, Doc.
 Ya'll have fun out there.
Relax, Marine. You're making me nervous.
How will they know we're here?
I'm sure they're watching us right now.
The kids were so bright, so eager to learn... they picked up English faster than I could teach it to them.
Bring the soil probe -- right there, yellow case.
 The stingbats knock them off. I guess I always hope somebody will come back and read them.
Why don't they come back?
 The Na'vi learned as much about us as they needed to know.
 What happened here?
 Are you going to help with this gear? We've got a lot to do.
CUT TO:
See, right here where the roots of the two trees interact.
Don't shoot. You'll piss it off.
It's already pissed off!
Jake, that armor's too thick. Trust me.
It's a territorial threat display. Do not run, or he'll charge.
What do I do?
Hold your ground!
Oh yeah!   Who's bad?! That's right.
That's what I'm talkin' about, bitch!
That's right motherf--
What about this one?       Run, don't run? What?
Run.     Definitely RUN!
I'm going to have to call it, guys. We're not allowed to run night ops. Colonel's orders.
Shit.
Sorry, Doc. He's just gonna have to hang on `till morning.
He's not going to make it till morning.
 I don't have all goddamn night! Come on! Come on!
Rrreeyaaah! Hyaaaah!!
Raaaarrrr!
Wait, don't --
 Forgive me, my brother.
Look, um, I know you probably don't understand this. But -- thanks. Thank you. I owe you.
 Forgive me. May your spirit run with the Great Mother.
I would have been screwed if you hadn't come along --
Hey, wait. Wait!   Where you goin'?
Slow down a second will you. I just want to thank you for killing those --
Don't thank! You don't thank for this! This is sad. Very sad, only.
Okay, I'm sorry.    Whatever I did -- I'm sorry.
All this is your fault! They did not need to die.
They attacked me.   How'm I the bad guy HERE--
Your fault! You are like a baby, making noise, don't know what to do. You should not come here, all of you! You only come and make problems. Only.
Okay, fine, you love your little forest friends. So why not just let them kill my ass? What's the thinking?
Why save you?
Yes, why save me?
You have a strong heart.   No fear.
But stupid! Ignorant like a child!
If I'm so ignorant, maybe you should teach me.
Sky people can not learn.   You do not See.
Whooaa.
Then teach me to "see."
No one can teach you to See.
Hey, slow down. Look, I think we just got off on the wrong foot and --
--you just have to get to know me. I'm Jake. Jake Sull--
Whooaaa -- shit!
I need your help.
You should not be here.
So take me with you.
No. You go back.
 What?
What are they?
Atokirina'. Seeds of the Great Tree -- very pure spirits.
What was that all about?
Come! CUT TO:
What's your name?
 Tsu'tey, what are you doing?! He is my captive!
 These demons are forbidden here. I will kill this one as a lesson to the others!
 Stop! There has been a sign. This is a matter for the Tsahik.
 Bring him.
 Why do you bring this creature here?
 I was going to kill him, but there was a sign from Eywa.
 I have said no dreamwalker will come here, to offend our home! His alien smell fills my nose
 Father, many atokirina came to this alien.
What's going on?
My father is deciding whether to kill you.
Your father!?  Uh, good to meet you, sir.
 Step back!
 I will look at this alien.
That is Mother. She is Tsahik -- the one who interprets the will of Eywa.
Who's Eywa?
 What are you called?
Jake Sully.
Why did you come to us?
I came to learn.
We have tried to teach other Sky People. It is hard to fill a cup which is already full.
My cup is empty, trust me. Just ask Doctor Augustine. I'm no scientist.
What are you?
I don't know. I was a Marine -- uh, a warrior. Of the Jarhead clan.
 A warrior! I could kill him easily!
 No! This is the first warrior dreamwalker we have seen. We need to learn more about him.
What's going on?   What are they saying?
 Daughter. You will teach him our way, to speak and walk as we do.
 Why me? That's not fair!     I only--
 It is decided!
 My daughter will teach you our ways. Learn well, Jakesully. We will see if your insanity can be cured.
 He is your responsibility.
So it's all good, right?   You and me --
Do not speak. CUT TO:
Don't get up.
You never told me your name.
Neytiri te Ckaha Mo'at'ite.
Okay, again, a whole lot slower.
 Neytiri. Nay-TEE-ree.
Nay-TEE-ree. That's nice. Nay-TEE-ree.
 These aliens try to look like people, but they can't.
 He seems dim to me.   And his eyes are too small.
Your mom likes me.    I can tell.
 Neytiri will test this "warrior." Hey may learn nothing -- but we will learn much.
You speak truth. We must understand these Sky People if we are to drive them out.
These rock. What are they?
Teylu. You call beetle larvae.
That's some damn fine teylu. That's like grandma's teylu.
 I say she will kill him. CUT TO:
Come on back, kid, that's it.
Wha --? Oh.
Damn, you were dug in like a tick.  Is the avatar safe?
 Yeah, Doc -- and you are not going to believe where I am. CUT TO:
-- so the kid's out there one night and he's got the Queen Bitch herself offering him the spare room and the car keys. Unbelievable.
It's not something you can teach.
That's awesome, Jake.
 For reasons I cannot fathom, the Omaticaya have chosen you. God help us all. CUT TO:
Jarhead clan?  And that worked?
 Yeah. They want to study me.   See if I can learn to be one of them.
That's how you seize the initiative. I wish I had ten more like you.
Look, Sully -- find out what these blue monkeys want. 
We try to give them medicine and education. Roads! But no -- they like mud. I wouldn't care except --
Their damn village is sitting right over the richest unobtanium deposit for a hundred klicks in any direction. Which sucks -- for them -- because they need to relocate.
 Does Augustine know about this?
Yeah, she does, and she's on the next ship back if she tries to cock-block me on it.
So -- who talks them into moving?
 Guess.
What if they won't go?
 I'm betting they will.
Killing the indigenous looks bad, but there's one thing shareholders hate more than bad press -- and that's a bad quarterly statement. Find me a carrot to get them to move, or it's going to have to be all stick.
You got three months.    That's when the dozers get there.
I'm on it. CUT TO:
Tsu'tey.  Mo'at.  Eytukan.
He's the clan leader --  -- but she's the spiritual leader.   Like a shaman.
Got it. So who's this Eywa?
Who's Eywa? Oh, only their deity. The Great Mother. The goddess made up of all living things. You'd know that if you had any training whatsoever.
Who's got a date with the chief's daughter?
Knock it off. Jesus, it's like kindergarten around here.
Neytiri was my best student. She and her sister Silwanin. Just amazing girls.
I didn't meet the sister.
 No, she's dead.  Okay, let's go -- village life starts early.
Link is ready.
Don't do anything unusually stupid.
This is shahaylu -- the bond. Feel her heartbeat, her breath. Feel her strong legs.
You may tell her what to do --  -- inside. For now, say where to go.
Forward.
Again.
You should go away.
 I knew this guy could speak English.
 This alien will learn nothing.   A rock Sees more.
Again. CUT TO:
You've got outer columns, then a secondary ring here, and an inner ring. Then a core structure, it's like a spiral, that's how they move up and down.
I'm going to need accurate scans of all these columns.
Roger that.
I'm not about to let Quaritch and Selfridge micro-manage this thing.  We're going up into the mountains. 
There's a mobile link up at Site 26 that we can work out of.
The Hallelujah Mountains?
That's right.
Yesssss!  The legendary Floating Mountains of Pandora? Heard of them? CUT TO:
It only takes tiny inputs.   Here, put your hand on the cyclic --
Feel how small the moves are? You barely have to think it, and the aircraft reacts.
See these magnetic formations.   We're getting close.
Yeah we are. Look at my instruments.
Yup. We're in the flux vortex.
Oh. My. God.
You should see your face.
Yeah, so what does hold them up? Grace explained it to me -- some kind of maglev effect because unobtanium is a superconductor, or something. At least somebody understands it. Just not me. CUT TO:
CUT TO:
Jake, take number two, it's the least glitchy. Norm, I need you to operate Jake's link.
Hey. You got a problem?
I trained three years for this mission. I speak the language fluently.  He falls off the frickin' turnip truck and all of a sudden he's cultural ambassador!?
It's not our choice, Norm.
Yeah, well I didn't come out here to wash the dishes while you're on some interspecies booty call.
He can't go far.
Let's get you in. CUT TO:
Holy shit.
Do not look in her eye.
Ikran is not horse. Once shahaylu is made, ikran will fly with only one Hunter in the whole life.
To become taronyu -- Hunter -- you must choose your own ikran. And he must choose you.
When?
When you are ready.
Heeyaaahh!
Do I have to do this?   I need some rack.
No -- now, when it's fresh.
Yeah, yeah.  The days are starting to blur together. The language is a bitch, but I figure it's like field-stripping a weapon. Repetition.
Seyri.
Ontu, mikyun, nari.
Neytiri thinks I'm some kind of retard.
Norm's attitude has improved lately.
Thank you?
Ireiyo.
Irrrreiyo. Irrrreiyo.   You've gotta roll the R, r-r-r-oll it.
It's good he's back on board, but he thinks I'm a retard too.
My feet are getting tougher.   I can run farther every day.
I have to trust my body to know what to do. With Neytiri it's learn fast or die.
I sweet-talked Mo'at into giving Norm and Grace a hall pass. Now Grace even makes me coffee before link every morning.
 I See you, Neytiri Mo'at'ite.
I See you, Doctor Grace Augustine.
I'm learning to read the trails, the tracks at the water-hole, the tiniest scents and sounds.
When you hear nothing, you will hear everything. When you see nothing, you will See everything.
Sometimes I have no idea what she's talking about.
It's been a month and I'm still not allowed to make a kill. She says the forest hasn't given permission.
There's a lot of crap like that. She's always going on about the flow of energy-- the spirits of the animals and what not --
 I just hope this treehugger shit isn't on the final.
 This isn't just about eye-hand coordination out there. You need to listen to what she says. Try to see the forest through their eyes.
Excuse me -- this is my video-log here, okay?
Everything is backwards now. Like out there is the true world, and in here is the dream.
 I See you Brother, and thank you. Your spirit goes with Eywa, your body stays behind to become part of the People.
A clean kill. You are ready. CUT TO:
You're still losing weight.   Here --
I made a kill today. We ate it.   I know where that meal came from.
Other body. You need to take care of this body.
Yeah yeah.
Jake, I'm serious -- you look like crap. You're burning too hard.
Get rid of this shit, then you can lecture me.
I'm telling you, as your boss and someone who might even consider being a friend someday, to take some down time.
Not now. Tomorrow we leave for Iknimaya.
Yeah -- you're gonna go ride a banshee. Or die trying.
That's right, Grace. This is what I've been working for.
And this is your check up from the neck up, Marine. You're getting in way too deep.  Trust me, I learned the hard way.
What did happen at the school?
Neytiri's sister -- Sylwanin -- stopped coming to school. She was angry about the clear-cutting.
One day, she and a couple of other young hunters came running in, all painted up -- they'd set a bulldozer on fire -- I guess they thought I could protect them.
The troopers pursued them to the schoolhouse.
They killed Sylwanin in the doorway. Right in front of Neytiri. Then shot the others.  I got most of the kids out, before they shot me.
Jesus.
Yeah.
A scientist stays objective -- we can not be ruled by emotion. But I poured ten years of my life into that school. They called me sa'atenuk. Mother.  That kind of pain reaches back through the link.
It's a job. Learn what you can -- but don't get attached.
It's not our world, Jake.   And we can't stop what's coming. CUT TO:
Iknimaya translates roughly as stairway to heaven. It's the test every young hunter has to pass.
We doin' this?
Jakesully will go first.
 Now you choose your ikran. This you must feel -- inside. If he also chooses you, move quick, like I showed. You will have one chance.
How will I know if he chooses me?
He will try to kill you.
Outstanding.
Let's dance.
That's right! You're mine.
First flight seals the bond. You cannot wait.
Heeeyyyaaaah!
Shut the hell up!!
Level out!     Fly straight!
I may not be much of a horse guy.   But I was born to do this.
The Great Leonopteryx is the apex aerial predator. Not only rare, but the sightings tend not to get reported.
There usually isn't time to key the mike.
The People call it Toruk.
 Last Shadow.
Last one you ever see.
I saw one take out a gunship once -- WHAM! Total frickin' yard sale. Ate the crew like peanuts.
That's it.
Vitraya Ramunong -- The Well of Souls. It's their most sacred place.
Something big is going on in there, biologically. I'd die to get samples, but outsiders are strictly forbidden.
They're coming back.
If you don't give him something, he's gonna shut us down.
Hey, guys. CUT TO:
My grandfather's grandfather was Toruk Macto -- Rider of Last Shadow. Toruk chose him. It has only happened five times since the time of the First Songs.
That's a long time.
Toruk Macto was mighty -- he brought the clans together in a time of great sorrow. All Na'vi people know this story.
Watch that stuff.   It'll knock you into next week.
I thought -- enough drink -- you would not be so ugly.
Sorry.
Your warriors -- hide inside machines -- fight from far away.  I did not think a sky person could be brave.
You must dance! It is the way.
 We cannot let this seed grow. Her path is with Tsu'tey.
CUT TO:
It's hard to put in words the deep connection the People have to the forest.
They see a network of energy that flows through all living things. They know that all energy is only borrowed--
-- and one day you have to give it back.
Hard to believe it's only been three months.
 I can barely remember my old life. I'm not sure who I am anymore. CUT TO:
Good of you to stop by. How's it going out there? Our blue friends all packed up yet?
See, I keep hooking it.   It's the damn pack.
The low gravity and the high air density cancel out so --
You called us back to report -- you want to hear it or not?
Go ahead.
Jake is making incredible progress, years worth in just a few months. But -- we need more time.
Not what I was hoping to hear.
Parker, it's their ancestral home. They've lived there since before human history began. You can spare them a few more weeks.
This thing is inevitable. What does it matter when it happens? I'm sorry, Dr. Augustine. You're out of time.
You're not gettin' lost in the woods, are you son?
Your last report was two weeks ago. I'm starting to doubt your resolve. From what I see, it's time to terminate this mission.
No.    I can do this.
Look, you've given me plenty of usable intel. Like this "Well of Souls" place -- I've got them by the balls with that, when it turns into a shit-fight. Which it will.
So you'll get your legs back, like I promised. (puts his hand on Jake's SHOULDER) It's time to come in.
I've gotta finish this thing. There's one more test -- the Dream Hunt. It's the final stage of becoming a man. Then I'm one of them. They'll trust what I say...
... and I can negotiate the terms of their relocation.
Then you need to get it done, Corporal. CUT TO:
Jake, I can't allow this.   You're just not strong enough.
It's the last door -- I'm going through it. You can help me or get out of the way.
 Will you listen to me? Sometimes the Na'vi themselves die in these vision quests. The venom takes you to the edge of death. 
And the psychoactive alkaloid in the worm- - we have no idea what that'll do in an avatar brain.
Calibrating. Thirty seconds.
No matter what you prove out there-- you are still in here.  Right here.
I have to go all the way -- become one of THEM--
 Goddammit, Jake, you can never be one of them!
Our life out there takes millions of dollars of machinery to sustain. You visit -- and you leave.
 You can never truly be with her.
You know why I'm here? Because Quaritch sent me.
What?
That's right -- to embed with the Omaticaya. To find out how to screw them out of their home. By deceit or by force, he didn't care. And if it turned out to be force, then how best to do it.
And what about now, Jake?
I'm not that guy any more.
I know.
But if I tell Quaritch the truth, he yanks me out -- I never see her again. And if I tell her the truth, the clan throws me out -- that's if they don't cut my heart out and show it to me.
They won't understand what you've done.
They don't even have a word for "lie" -- they had to learn it from us.
I know. I taught it to them.
 Grace. I've gotta go.   They're waiting.
Link is ready.
Jake. You can't carry this burden much longer.
 It's okay. Mo'at says an alien mind probably can't survive the Dream Hunt anyway.
 Prep my link. I'm going in. CUT TO:
When your Spirit Animal comes, you will know.
 Oh wise worm, eater of the Sacred Tree -- bless this worthy Hunter with a true vision.
It is finished.
 Did your Spirit Animal come?
 Something has come.  It will take time for the meaning to be clear.
 You are now a son of the Omaticaya.   You are part of the People.
This is a place for prayers to be heard. And sometimes answered.
It's like -- a sound you feel.
We call this utraya mokri -- the Tree of Voices. The voices of our ancestors, who live within Eywa.
You are Omaticaya now. You may make your own bow from the wood of Hometree.  And you may choose a woman.
We have many fine women. Ninat is the best singer --
I don't want Ninat.
There is Beyral -- she is a good hunter --
I've already chosen. But this woman must also choose me.
She already has.
Kissing is very good. But we have something better.
Neytiri, you know my real body is far away, sleeping.
This body is real.  This spirit is real.
When I was first your teacher, I hated all Sky People. But you have also taught me.  Spirit is all that matters.
I am with you now, Jake. We are mated for life.
We are?
Yes. It is our way.  Oh. I forgot to tell?
Really, we are?
We are.
It's cool. I'm there.
Jake! Wake up! Where ever you are, come back to me now. Jake!
Here -- eat this. I'd hate to have to force-feed a cripple.
 She's not going anywhere.
And when was the last time you took a shower? Jesus, Marine.
Hey!    Heeeey! Stop! Stop!
Hey, I got one of the natives blockin' my blade here.
 What do we do?
Roll on. He'll move. These people have to learn that we don't stop.
I'm blind.
Freeze it, right -- there.
Son of a bitch!
Get me a pilot! CUT TO:
 Tsu'tey will lead the war party!
 Please -- this will only make it worse --
You do not speak here!
 Okay, listen. There's something I have to tell you. It's gonna be hard. I just need you to --
You!
You mated with this woman?!
Oh shit.
Is this true?
 We are mated before Eywa. It is done.
 Neytiri was promised to me! Everything is changing. Everything is being destroyed!
 These aliens kill everything they touch, like poison.
Neytiri! If you choose this path, you can never be Tsahik. Your life will be wasted.
I have chosen.
Yeeeeeaaa!
 Stop! This is not a proper challenge.
I challenge you.
Jake, don't --
I accept. CUT TO:
Loveshack this is Samson One Six inbound hot to your pos. I have Colonel Quaritch with me and --
Did I tell you to announce us?
Sorry sir, it's procedure.
Samson One Six?   Trudy?  Crap.
What the hell are you doing?
It's the only way to get him to goddamn listen.
Hey, hang on, you can't interrupt a link in progress, it's dangerous -- wait!
Are you out of your goddamn mind?!
You crossed a line.
 This is a demon in a false body. It should not live.
You let me down, son. You got a little local pussy and completely forgot what team you play for.
Parker, listen, there may still be time to --
Shut your fucking hole!
Or what, Ranger Rick? You gonna shoot me?  You need to muzzle your dog!
Can we just take this down a couple notches, please.
 You say you want to keep your people alive. Start by listening to her.
 This is bad, Parker. Those trees were sacred to the Omaticaya in a way you can't imagine.
You know what? You throw a stick in the air around here it falls on some sacred fern.
I'm not talking about pagan voodoo here -- I'm talking about something real and measurable in the biology of the forest.
 Which is what exactly?
 I can't do this. How am I supposed to reduce years of work to a sound bite for the illiterate?
Just tell him what you know in your heart.
Alright, look -- I don't have the answers yet, I'm just now starting to even frame the questions. What we think we know -- is that there's some kind of electrochemical communication between the roots of the trees. Like the synapses between neurons. Each tree has ten to the fourth connections to the trees around it, and there are ten to the twelfth trees on Pandora --
That's a lot I'm guessing.
That's more connections than the human brain. You get it? It's a network -- a global network. And the Na'vi can access it -- they can upload and download data -- memories -- at sites like the one you destroyed.
What the hell have you people been smoking out there? They're just. Goddamn. Trees.
You need to wake up, Parker. The wealth of this world isn't in the ground -- it's all around us. The Na'vi know that, and they're fighting to defend it. If you want to share this world with them, you need to understand them.
We understand them just fine.   Thanks to Jake here.
They're not going to give up their home -- they're not gonna make a deal. For what? Lite beer and shopping channel? There's nothing we have that they want. We're a horror to them. We're the monsters from space.
They're never going to leave Hometree.
Since a deal can't be made -- it gets real simple.  So thanks. I'm getting all emotional.    I might just give you a big wet kiss.
Parker, we have to talk, like rational people.
Well, I'd cherish that, but unfortunately you're out of here on the next shuttle. All of you. I'm shutting down the Avatar Program, effective now.
They hit with banshees first. Set the ampsuit on fire. Driver's toast.
The rest of the squad?
Six bodies -- that's all of `em. And the equipment is totalled.
Christ.
I can do it with minimal casualties to the indigenous. We'll clear them out with gas first. It'll be humane. More or less.
Hey, don't go limp on me now. This is exactly the incident we needed.
Alright, let's pull the trigger. CUT TO:
They bulldozed a sacred site on purpose, to trigger a response. They're fabricating this war to get what they want.
I can't believe that.
Yup. That's how it's done. When people are sitting on shit you want, you make them your enemy. Then you're justified in taking it.
Sec-ops is rolling the gunships.   They're gonna hit Hometree!
When?
Now.    We're spooling up now! I gotta go.
My God.
Parker, wait. Stop! These are people you're about to --
They're fly-bitten savages who live in a tree! Look around -- I don't know about you but I see a lot of trees. They can move.
For God's sake, there are children in there. Babies!
Look Selfridge, you don't want this kind of blood on your hands. Let me try to talk them out. They trust me.
You've got one hour. Unless you want your girlfriend in there when the axe comes down, you get them to evacuate. One hour.
 Eytukan, I have something to say, to everyone.
 Speak, Jakesully.
 A great evil is upon us. The Sky People are coming to destroy Hometree. They will be here soon.
 You have to leave, or you will die.
Are you certain of this?
They sent me here to learn your ways. So one day I could bring this message, and you would believe it.
What are you saying, Jake? You knew this would happen?
Yes.  At first it was just orders. Then everything changed. I fell in love-- with the forest, with the Omaticaya People --  -- with you. And by then, how could I tell you?
I trusted you, Jake!
Neytiri. Please, I only wanted to --
You will never be one of the People! NEVER!
 Bind them.
Well, I'd say diplomacy has failed.
I think they mean to cut their throats if we don't back off. Make sure you get a nice close-up of that. I can tack it onto the after-action report.
You have to get out of Hometree! Run to the forest! Please, I'm begging you!
 Take the ikran! Attack from above!
Alright, let's get this done. Give me forty millimeter gas rounds, right in the front door.
Roger.   CS forties. Going hot.
Fire.
 Everybody outside! Go to the Forest.
You are one of us.   Help us!
We've gotta move!    He's gonna blow the columns.
That's how you scatter the roaches. Okay, switch missiles. Give me H-E's at the base of the west columns.
Copy, switching missiles.
Screw it.
Bring it down.
Nice work people. Alright, let's light it up.
Neytiri!   Neytiri!
 Daughter -- take my bow. Protect the People.
I'm sorry --
Get away from me, Jake. Go away! Never come back!
I was a warrior who dreamed he could bring peace. Sooner or later though, you always have to wake up...
Pull the plug.
 Bring her.
They never wanted us to succeed.
Personally I think steak's too good for these traitors.
They get steak?    That's bullshit. Let me see that --
Oops.  All the way down, pendejo.
That was unexpectedly satisfying.
Baby, you rock.
 Thanks.
So what do you say?    Time for a revolution?
I'm free.
Come on. CUT TO:
 Get your ship fired up.
Stay here. I need somebody on the inside I can trust.
I need you to shut down and step out of the vehicle! Now!
Take it nice and easy, troop.
On the ground, face down. Hands behind your head.
Do what he goddamn says!
Go! Go! Go!
Oh yeah, baby!
Aaahh, crap. Not again.
This is gonna ruin my whole day.
Hang on, Grace. CUT TO:
Well, at least they won't be able to track us up here. Not this deep in the vortex.
It's strongest at the Well of Souls, right?
Yeah.
Good, `cause that's where we're going.
Copy.
I'm gonna get you some help, Grace.
Forget it, it doesn't matter.
No!   The People can help you. I know it. CUT TO:
The Well of Souls. The heart of the forest. I knew the People would go there.
 Wise ancestors who live within Eywa, guide us. Give us a sign. CUT TO:
 Tsu'tey is Olo'eyctan now. He's not going to let you get near that place.
I've gotta try, Norm.
Outcast. Betrayer. Alien. To ever face them again, I was gonna have to change the rules.
Sometimes your whole life boils down to one insane move.
Come on, boy. Time to fly.
The way I had it figured, Toruk is the baddest cat in the sky. Nothing attacks him. So why would he ever look up?
But that was just a theory.
 Toruk Macto.
 Toruk Macto!
Toruk Macto... Toruk Macto...
I See you.
 I See you.
I was afraid Jake -- for my people. I'm not any more.
 Tsu'tey of the Rongloa, son of Ateyo. I stand before you, ready to serve the People.  You are Olo'eyctan, and you are the best warrior. I can't do this without you.
I will fly with you.
Ireiyo.
Grace is dying.     I beg the help of the Great Mother.
Bring her, Jakesully.
Look where we are, Grace.
 I need to take some samples.
 The Great Mother may choose to save all that she is --
-- in this body.
Is that possible?
Possible, yes. She must pass through the Eye of Eywa -- and return. But Jakesully-- she is very weak.
Hang on, they're gonna fix you up.
I -- always held back. But you gave them your heart. I'm proud of you, Jake.
Help them.     You do whatever it takes. You hear me?
I will.
I'm with her Jake --  -- she's real --
Grace!
Her wounds were too great, there was not enough time. She is with Eywa now.
With your permission, I will Speak now. You would honor me by translating.
The Sky People have sent a message that they can take whatever they want, and no one can stop them. But we will send them a message. Ride out, as fast as the wind can carry you, tell the other clans to come. Tell them Toruk Macto calls to them. Fly now with me brothers and sisters! Fly! And we will show the Sky People that this is our land!
CUT TO:
We rode out to the four winds. To the horse clans of the plain, to the ikran people of the mountains. When Toruk Macto called them, they came.
CUT TO:
People, you are fighting for survival. There's an aboriginal horde out there massing for an attack. First slide.
These orbital images show the hostiles' numbers have gone from a couple of hundred to over two thousand in one day, and more are pouring in. By next week it could be twenty thousand. Then they'll be overrunning our perimeter here. We can't wait. Our only security lies in pre- emptive attack. We will fight terror with terror.
Next slide. This mountain stronghold is supposedly protected by their deity. When we destroy it, we will blast a crater in their racial memory so deep they won't come within a thousand klicks of this place. CUT TO:
This thing is completely out of control!
Listen to me! I am not authorizing you to turn the mine-workers local into a freakin' militia!
I declared threat condition red. That puts all on-world assets under my command.
You think you can pull this palace coup shit on me?! I can have your ass with one call --
You're a long way from Earth.
 Get him out of here.
You touch me you're so fired.
I don't know how secure this channel is.
Talk fast.
It's crazy here, Jake. It's full mobilization. They're rigging the shuttles as bombers. They've made up these big pallets of mine explosives. It's for some kind of shock and awe campaign.
Frickin' daisycutters.
Holy shit.
 Can you talk to Selfridge? Maybe we can cut some kinda deal before this thing goes all the way.
No, Quaritch has taken over. He's rolling and there's no stopping him.
When?
Oh six hundred tomorrow.
Thanks.
We're screwed.
You know he's gonna commit those bombers straight to the Well of Souls.
That's right. Because I gave it to him on a plate.
We both did.
If he takes out the Well of Souls -- it's over. It's their main line to Eywa, to their ancestors -- it'll destroy them.
Then I guess we better stop him.
You need to get some rack.
Gonna have to settle for coffee. CUT TO:
I was a warrior who dreamed he could bring peace. But there was only one thing I was ever really good at. Ooh-rah.
 Strike here and here.
 You know our chances suck.
Yeah.
Going up against gunships with bows and arrows...
What's your point?
 Right.
I've never done this in my life.
And I'm probably just talking to a tree right now. But if you're there -- I need to give you a heads up.
If Grace is there with you -- look in her memories -- she can show you the world we come from. There's no green there. They killed their Mother, and they're gonna do the same thing here.
More Sky People are gonna come. They're gonna come like a rain that never ends --
-- until they've covered the world. Unless we stop them. 
Look, you chose me for somethin'. And I'll stand and fight, you know I will. But I could use a little help here.
Our Great Mother does not take sides. She protects only the balance of life.
It was worth a try.
Contact. Two hundred meters.
Fire for effect.
Jake!   Jake! We're falling back!
Blue team, switch forties.   Fire at will.
Yeah baby!     Get some!
Blue team, stay with the ground units. Red team, with me. We're punching for the main target.
You're not the only ones with guns, you pricks.
There it is.  Valkyrie One, this is Dragon. Target is in sight.
Target in sight.
We have to stop the shuttles, no matter what it takes.
I hear this is worse than death for you, chief.
Right flank -- something's coming!   It's all lit up out there.
What the hell -- ?
WHOO-HOOOO!
A and C squads -- rally at my pos.   I want --  Who's screaming God damn it?!
We gotta get outta here! Whoever's in charge, call for extraction!
Shutup you crybabies!
Rogue One, Rogue One, this is Max.   Tell Jake we are in motion.  Get in there. Barricade the door!
CUT TO:
Mains to a hundred percent!   Get me airspeed!
We're good!
Valkyrie Two is breaking off. And if any of ya'll want to get off this piece of shit planet, you better cover our ass, `cause we're the only way back to orbit.
Roger that.
Get back here you worthless pukes!
Are we breaking off?
What do you think?
 What the hell is going on out there? CUT TO:
Sir, all ground units are falling back to the LZ.
Stay on target.
Switch missiles. Arm all pods.
Arming.
Let's see what these blue bastards do when I bitch-slap their goddess.
 Put your mask on.
 Quaritch is gonna take out the Well of Souls! He's got a clear shot. Hit him, anybody that can! Do it now!
On it.
No!
 Norm, I love you.
Dragon is down. It's off the board.
What do you mean, off the board?!
Oh shit.
It's all over Quaritch --
Nothing's over while I'm breathing.
Kinda hoped you'd say that.
How does it feel to betray your own race?
 I See you, Jakesully.
I See you, Tsu'tey te Rongloa Ateyitan.
Are the people safe?
They're safe.
I can never ride again, or bond with my woman -- or hear the voice of Eywa. I can not lead the People. You will lead them, Jakesully.
No. I'm not officer material.
It is decided. Now do the duty of Olo'eyctan. Set my spirit free.
I'm not killing you.
I am already dead.
No.
It is the way. And it is good. I will be remembered --
-- I fought with Toruk Macto, we were brothers -- and he was my last shadow.
 Forgive me, my Brother. Go now to the Mother Spirit.
A few chose to stay. Fewer were chosen.
The forest will heal, and so will the hearts of the People. New life keeps the energy flowing, like the breath of the world.
This is my last videolog.
The science guys will keep the lights on, here. But I won't miss this place.
I better wrap this up. There's a funeral tonight, and I don't want to be late. It was someone very close to me.
CUT TO BLACK
