The Tesseract has awakened. It is on a little world. A human world. They would wield its power,...
THE OTHER faces a HORNED SHAPED SHADOW. LOKI. Loki is handed the CHITAURI SCEPTER, a long golden handle, fitted with a blue gem encircled with silver blades.
But our ally knows its workings as they never will. He is ready to lead. And our force, our Chitauri, will follow.
The world will be his. The universe yours. And the humans, what can they do but burn?
How bad is it?
NASA didn't authorize Selvig to test phase.
What are the energy levels now?
How long to get everyone out?
Do better.
We should tell them to go back to sleep?
I need you to make sure that PHASE 2 prototypes are shipped out.
Until such time as the world ends, we will act as though it intends to spin on. Clear out the tech below. Every piece of PHASE 2 on a truck and gone.
Talk to me, doctor. DR. ERIK SELVIG emerges from behind the CMS machine, concerned. The Tesseract is glowing unusually brighter and flare rings shoot out at random.
Director.
Is there anything we know for certain?
Tesseract is misbehaving.
Is that supposed to be funny?
No, it's not funny at all. The Tesseract is not only active, she's...misbehaving.
How soon until you pull the plug?
She's an energy source. If we turn off the power, she turns it back on. If she reaches peak level...
We've prepared for this, doctor. Harnessing energy from space.
We don't have the harness. Our calculations are far from complete. Now she's throwing off interference, radiation. Nothing harmful, low levels of gamma radiation.
That can be harmful. Where's Barton?
The Hawk? Up in his nest, as usual. We see CLINT BARTON, dressed in black tactical gear, is up on the railings watching them below, Fury calls Barton on his earpiece.
Agent Barton, report. BARTON rappels down from the catwalk. Walks up to Fury. They both walk around the facility in a discreet manner.
I gave you this detail so you could keep a close eye on things.
Well, I see better from a distance.
Are you seeing anything that might set this thing off?
No one's come or gone. It's oven is clean. No contacts, no I.M.'s. If there was any tampering, sir, it wasn't at this end.
At this end?
Yeah, the cube is a doorway to the other end of space, right? The doors open from both sides. DR. SELVIG clacks away at the keyboard and sees on the monitoring his worst nightmares. Suddenly- the Tesseract THUNDERS and SHAKES the entire facility. Big enough where both Agents Hill and Coulson can feel and they're at different ends of the facility. The flaring rings and glow of the cube spout out brighter and louder, like a boiling pot of water. The Tesseract's energy builds up into a BEAM much like the Bifrost Bridge, which HITS at the end of a platform that is wired to the CMS device. The great maelstrom beam FIRES the TESSERACT energy. The beam then forms a VORTEX, which then opens up a PORTAL. A BLACK HOLE IS CREATED. From the portal, the blackness of SPACE, beautiful and mysterious, strewn with a billion stars appears and a GUST of BLUE ENERGY CLOUDS fill the room, blinding everyone. The Tesseract's energy forms into a cloud that reaches to the top the facility's vacuum chamber ceiling. It's abnormally quiet. Then... HEAVY BREATHING is heard from the platform. SHIELD GUARDS slowly approach, weapons in hands. A figure is kneeling on the platform, smoke coming off it. It's LOKI. Smiling in his mischievous manner, he raises his head. The smile dies down. He looks deep into the eyes of Fury, Barton and Selvig. He stands up, holing the scepter.
Sir, please put down the spear! Loki looks at his spear then suddenly points it at where Fury and Barton are standing and SHOOTS OUT A BLUE EXPLODING LIGHT TOWARDS THEM. BARTON TACKLES Fury and they both barely miss Loki's fired shot. ALL HELL BREAKS. Machine gun fire is shot at Loki, but the bullets bounce off him like a boss. Loki jumps high from the platform and ATTACKS those firing at him. In the blink of an eye, Loki takes down several guards with his KNIVES and ENERGY BLASTS from the scepter. He stops and waits to see who will attack him next. Honestly, the whole lab has almost gone to shit. Barton tries to stand up. Loki quickly walks towards him. Barton raises his gun, but Loki grabs Barton's hand.
You have heart. Loki points the head of his spear at Barton's head. Barton's eyes suddenly glow BLACK. The ability to control Barton's mind is now in Loki's hand. Barton puts his piece away and stands straight. As Loki is busy using his abilities to control the minds of several S.H.I.E.L.D. personnel, Fury takes the Tesseract, placing it back into its case and tries to leave the lab.Then...
Please don't. I still need that.
Of course it does. I've come too far for anything else. I am Loki of Asgard, and I am burdened with glorious purpose.
Loki? Brother of Thor?
We have no quarrel with your people.
An ant has no quarrel with a boot.
You planning to step on us?
I come with glad tidings, of a world made free.
Free from what?
Freedom. Freedom is life's great lie. Once you accept that, in your heart... Like a gunslinger, Loki turns to face Selvig who's standingbehind him and places his spear against Selvig's heart. Selvig's eyes glow BLACK.
You will know peace.
Yeah, you say peace, I kind of think you mean the other thing. From the vacuum chamber ceiling, Tesseract's energy cloud RAPIDLY builds into what may be an implosion.
Sir, Director Fury is stalling. This place is about to blow. Drop a hundred feet of rock on us. He means to bury us.
Like The Pharaohs of Odin.
He's right. The portal is collapsing in on itself. You got maybe two minutes before this goes critical.
Well, then... Loki, looking at Barton, who doesn't even hesitate, SHOOTS FURY WHO FALLS TO THE GROUND. Barton grabs the case containing the Tesseract and leaves the lab with Loki, Selvig and the other S.H.I.E.L.D personnel Loki is controlling.
 Need these vehicles.
He didn't tell me. Agent Hill looks suspiciously at them as they get into the truck and turns to leave, as she's walking away...
 Hill, do you copy?! Loki and Barton SHARPLY look at Agent Hill.
Barton is...
He's got the Tesseract! Track it down! The energy is really brewing a fucking shit storm from the vacuum chamber ceiling.
On the Barton's truck, they escape the tunnel and drive into the desert landscape. Fury's helicopter ROARS over Barton's truck. Loki looks up. From the chopper's door, it slides open and Fury stands there, holding a gun, SHOOTING at Barton's, giving an honoring image of
Loki looks at Fury and in a fit of RAGE, points his scepter SHOOTS OUT THE BLUE LIGHT. The chopper CATCHES on fire, GOING DOWN in a FIERY BALL. Fury, like the boss he is, JUMPS OUT and touches down onto the desert floor. The chopper BARRELS along the ground. Fury, coming back to his senses, FIRES at Loki, but they're toofar and too late. Loki looks back, smiling. Fury stands there, MIND REELING. Then...
The Tesseract is with the hostile force. I have men down. Hill?
Sound the general call. I want every living soul not working rescue looking for that brief case.
Coulson, get back to base. This is a LEVEL SEVEN. As of right now, we are at war. A beat.
This is not how I wanted the evening to go.
I know how you wanted this evening to go. Believe me, this is better.
I'd like to know why they sent you to carry out a carrier, a stained glass and other random items. TALL THUG rocks her chair back, balancing her off the edge of an open floor. Natasha is now scared.
I thought General Soholob was in charge of the export business.
Soholob? Your reputation is quite a progression. THE FAMOUS BLACK WIDOW. Nothing but a pretty face.
You really think I'm pretty? LUCHKOV slowly walks over to a table filled with tools. He picks up a pair of pliers. TALL THUG opens up her mouth wide open.
We do not need the Lermontov to transfer the tanks. Tell him, well,...
Ya?  It's for you. LUCHKOV takes the phone, pissed.
Who the hell is...
Are you kidding? I'm working!
I'm in the middle of an interrogation and this moron is giving me everything.
I don't give everything. Natasha gives him a look.
Look, you can't pull me out of this right now.
Let me put you on hold. She nods to LUCHKOV. As Luchkov comes to take the phone off her, Natasha HITS him with her leg and HEADBUUTS him. Like a spider, she stands up elegantly and starts ATTACKING TALL THUG by KICKBOXING him in the face. Still tied, she ROLLS over WEASELLY THUG after she trips him. She then STOMPS on TALL THUG foot with peg of the chair, then
Where's Barton now?
But he's alive.
Coulson, you know that Stark trusts me about as far as he can throw me.
Bozhe moi.
What are doing here?! Get out! You shouldn't be here!
I have to see the doctor! It's my father!
Calm down. What's wrong?
My father... Banner looks behind him seeing how the girl is staring at a few people, lying down, looking very sick.
Is he like them? The LITTLE GIRL holds out all the money she has in the world.
Please.
Should have got paid up front, Banner. Natasha then appears from behind the curtains. Banner turns around, quietly.
You know, for a man who's supposed to be avoiding stress, you picked a hell of a place to settle.
Avoiding stress isn't the secret.
Then, what is it? Yoga?
You brought me to the edge of the city, smart. I uh... assume the whole place is surrounded?
Just you and me.
And your actress buddy, is she a spy too? Do they start that young?
I did.
Who are you?
Natasha Romanoff.
Are you here to kill me, Miss Romanoff? Because that's not gonna work out for everyone.
No. No. Of course not. I'm here on behalf of SHIELD.
SHIELD. How did they find me?
We never lost you, doctor. We've kept our distance, even helped keep some other interested parties off your scent.
Why?
Nick Fury seems to trust you. But now I need you to come in.
What if I said no?
I'll persuade you.
And what if the... other guy says no?
You've been more than a year without an incident. I don't think you wanna break that streak.
I don't always get what I want.
Doctor, we're facing a potential global catastrophe.
Well, those I actively try to avoid.
This is the Tesseract. It has the potential energy to wipe out the planet. She shows him a photo of the Tesseract on her cell phone. Banner takes a closer look.
What does Fury want me to do? Swallow it?
Well, he wants you to find it. It's been taken. It emits a gamma signature that's too weak for us to trace. There's no one that knows gamma radiation like you do. If there was, that's where I'd be.
So Fury isn't after the monster?
Not that he's told me.
And he tells you everything?
Talk to Fury, he needs you on this.
He needs me in a cage?
No one's gonna put you in a...
I'm sorry, that was mean. I just wanted to see what you'd do. Why don't we do this the easy way, where you don't use that, and the other guy doesn't make a mess? Okay? Natasha... Natasha, still wary, doesn't lower her gun. She lowers her gun and speaks into her earpiece.
Stand down. We're good here.
Just you and me? Natasha fidgets now that she exposed her guard down.
You ever been in a war, Councilman? In a firefight? Did you feel an overabundance of control?
Not Asgard. Loki.
Our intelligence says, Thor is not a hostile. But he's worlds away, we can't depend on him to help. It's up to us.
PHASE 2 isn't ready, our enemy is. We need a response team.
This isn't about The Avengers.
I'm not leaving anything to anyone. We need a response team. These people maybe isolated, unbalanced even, but I believe with the right push they can be exactly what we need.
No, it's won by soldiers.
There's not enough time! I gotta put her in the water!
You won't be alone.
Oh my god!
This guy is still alive!
Trouble sleeping?
I slept for seventy years, sir. I think I've had my fill.
Then you should be out, celebrating, seeing the world. Steve stops punching and walks over to the bench, unraveling the tape off his hands. He sits down.
I went under, the world was at war, I wake up, they say we won. They didn't say what we lost.
We've made some mistakes along the way. Some very recently.
You here with a mission, sir?
I am.
Trying to get me back in the world?
Trying to save it. Fury hands Steve a file on the Tesseract, along with other files on HYDRA'S projects.
Hydra's secret weapon.
Howard Stark fished that out of the ocean when he was looking for you. He thought what we think, the Tesseract could be the key to unlimited sustainable energy. That's something the world sorely needs.
Who took it from you?
He's called Loki. He's not from around here. There's a lot we'll have to bring you up to speed on if you're in. The world has gotten even stranger than you already know.
At this point, I doubt anything would surprise me.
Ten bucks says you're wrong. There's a debriefing package waiting for you back at your apartment. Steve turns and picks up a punching bag. Starts walking out of the gym.
Is there anything you can tell us about the Tesseract that we ought to know now?
You should have left it in the ocean.
You're good on this end. The rest is up to you.
 You disconnected the transition lines? Are we off the grid?
Stark Tower is about to become a beacon of self-sustaining clean energy.
Wow. So maybe our reactor takes over and it actually works?
I assume. Light her up. As IRON MAN flies to the STARK TOWER BUILDING, the power is switched on and the STARK sign LIGHTS UP.
How does it look?
Like Christmas, but with more... me.
Gotta go wider on the public awareness campaign. You need to do some press. I can do some more tomorrow. I'm working on the zoning for the next billboards.
Pepper, you're killing me. Remember? Enjoy the moment.
Then get in here and I will. TONY arrives at his skyscraper penthouse and is in the process of taking off his IRON MAN suit through a hi-tech gauntlet of gadgets.
Sir, Agent Coulson of SHIELD is on the line.
I'm not in. I'm actually out.
Sir, I'm afraid he's insisting.
Close the line Jarvis. I got a date.
Levels are holding steady... I think.
Of course they are, I was directly involved. Which brings me to my next question: how does it feel to be a genius?
Well, ha, I really wouldn't know now, would I?
What do you mean? All this came from you.
No. All this came from that. Points to the energy in his chest plate.
Give yourself some credit, please. Stark Tower is your baby. Give yourself... twelve percent of the credit.
Twelve percent?
An argument can be made for fifteen.
Twelve percent? For my baby?
Well, I did do all the heavy lifting. Literally, I lifted the heavy things. And sorry, but the security snafu? That was on you.
Oooooh.
My private elevator...
You mean OUR elevator?
...was teeming with sweaty workmen. I'm going to pay for that comment about percentages in some subtle way later, aren't I? Pepper pours herself and Tony a glass of champagne.
Not gonna be that subtle.
I'll tell you what. Next building's gonna say 'Potts' on the tower.
On the lease.
...Call your mom, can you bunk over?
Sir, the telephone. I'm afraid my protocols are being overwritten.
You have reached the life model decoy of Tony Stark, please leave a message.
Then leave it urgently. At that moment the elevator door opens and Coulson appears.
Security breach.
Phil! Come in.
Phil? Uh, his first name is Agent.
Come on in, we're celebrating.
Which is why he can't stay.
Soon as possible.
I don't like being handed things.
That's alright, `cause I love to be handed things. So, let's trade. She passes her glass of champagne to Coulson and takes the file from him, then takes her champagne glass back from Coulson and passes the file over to Stark.
Thank you.
Official consulting hours are between eight and five every other Thursday.
Is this about The Avengers? Which I...I know nothing about.
The Avengers Initiative was scrapped, I thought. And I didn't even qualify.
I didn't know that either.
Yeah, apparently I'm volatile, self- obsessed, don't play well with others.
That I did know.
Whatever. Miss Potts, got a minute? Pepper walks over to Tony who places the files into his own databases.
You know, I thought we were having a moment.
I was having twelve percent of a moment. This seems serious, Phil's pretty shaken.
How did you notice? Why is he Phil?
What is all of this?
This is, uh... Tony EXPANDS his arms and different profiles appear in holographic form floating in the air in front of Tony and Pepper.
This. Screens appear of CAPTAIN AMERICA IN ACTION, the HULK ROARING AS
I'm going to take the jet to D.C. tonight.
Tomorrow.
You've got homework. You've got a lot of homework.
Well, what if I didn't?
If you didn't?
Yeah.
You mean if you finished?  Well, um...then... She whispers something in his ear. Tony GASPS. Coulson looks away in embarrassment.
Square deal. It's the last date. Pepper kisses him.
Work hard. As Pepper leaves with Agent Coulson, Tony grabs the Tesseract in holograph form, worried.
We're about forty minutes out from base, sir. Agent Coulson stands up from his seat and walks over to Steve.
So, this Doctor Banner was trying to replicate the serum that was used on me?
Didn't really go his way, did it?
Well, I hope I'm the man for the job.
The uniform? Aren't the stars and stripes a little... old fashioned?
The Chitauri grow restless.
Let them go at themselves. I will lead them into glorious battle.
Battle? Against the meager might of Earth?
Glorious, not lengthy. If your force is as formidable as you claim.
You question us? You question HIM? He, who put the scepter in your hand, who gave you ancient knowledge and new purpose when you were cast out, defeated?
I was a king! The rightful king of Asgard! Betrayed!
Your ambition is little, born of childish need. We look beyond the Earth to greater worlds the Tesseract will unveil.
You don't have the Tesseract yet. THE OTHER runs over to attack him, but stops as Loki points his scepter.
I don't threaten, but until I open the doors, until your force is mine to command, you are but words.
You will have your war, Asgardian. If you fail, if the Tesseract is kept from us, there will be no realm, no barren moon, no crevice where he can't find you. You think you know pain? He will make you long for something as sweet as pain. THE OTHER places his hand on Loki's head and transports him back to Earth. Loki looks around, menacing.
Ma'am?
Hi.
There was quite the buzz around here, finding you in the ice. I thought Coulson was gonna swoon. Did he ask you to sign his Captain America trading cards yet?
Trading cards?
They're vintage, he's very proud. Without realizing, Banner doesn't notice them walking as he isnervous as hell. He moves around as people keep walking in hisway.
Dr. Banner. Steve walks up to Banner and shakes his hands.
Oh, yeah. Hi. They told me you'd be coming.
Word is you can find the cube.
Is that the only word on me?
Only word I care about.
 Must be strange for you, all of this.
Well, this is actually kind of familiar.
Gentlemen, you may wanna step inside in a minute. It's gonna get a little hard to breath. Suddenly the HELICARRIER starts SHAKING as it prepares to fly "sail."
Is this is a submarine?
Really? They wanted me in a submerged pressurized metal container? They both move closer to the edge of the HELICARRIER. FOUR HUGE
Good. Let's vanish.
Gentlemen. Steve gives Fury 10 bucks, referring to his earlier statement about never being surprised again. Fury walks over Banner and extends his hand. Banner, reluctantly shakes it.
Doctor, thank you for coming.
Thanks for asking nicely. So, uh... how long am I staying?
Once we get our hands on the Tesseract, you're in the clear.
Where are you with that? Nick Fury turns to Agent Coulson to explain, while Natasha Romanoff eyes an image of Clint Barton on a computer screen.
That's still not gonna find them in time.
You have to narrow the field. How many spectrometers do you have access to?
How many are there?
Call every lab you know, tell them to put the spectrometers on the roof and calibrate them for gamma rays. I'll rough out a tracking algorithm based on cluster recognition. At least we could rule out a few places. Do you have somewhere for me to work?
Agent Romanoff, would you show Dr.Banner to his laboratory, please. Natasha nods and walks off, leading Banner down the hall.
You're gonna love it, Doc. We got all the toys.
Put it over there!
SHIELD has not shortage of enemies, Doctor. He holds up a screen showing information on IRIDIUM.
Is this the stuff you need?
Yeah, iridium. It's found in meteorites, it forms anti-protons. It's very hard to get hold of.
Especially if SHIELD knows you need it.
Well, I didn't know!  Hey! The Tesseract is showing me so much. It's more than just knowledge, it's... truth.
I know. What did it show you, Agent Barton?
My next target.
Tell me what you need.
I'll need a distraction.  And an eyeball.
No, no. It's fine.
Captain, you're up. Steve nods. Leaves.
He looks down. One of his guards is shot with an ARROW. He raises his gun. He is shot dead by an arrow. Falls down. Barton and his CREW arrive at the doors of the locked science building. Barton looks at the retinal scanner. He pulls out a SHIELD eye scanner instrument.
The doors to the facility open. Barton walks in and finds in a cabinet, a glass thermos with a cylinder of iridium.
Kneel before me. The crowd ignores him. Another LOKI appears, blocking the crowd. Loki after Loki appears, they all grin as they raise their spears, encircling the crowd.
I said. KNEEL!!! Everyone becomes quiet and kneels in front him. Loki embracing his arms out, smiling.
Is not this simpler? Is this not your natural state? It's the unspoken truth of humanity, that you crave subjugation. The bright lure of freedom diminishes your life's joy in a mad scramble for power, for identity. You were made to be ruled. In the end, you will always kneel. As the words resonate to the kneeling crowd, an ELDER GERMAN MAN refuses to kneel and stands, heroic.
There are no men like me.
Look to your elder, people. Let him be an example. Loki is about to execute him with his scepter as the light GLOWS blue. Just as the ENERGY BEAM shoots out, FUCKING CAPTAIN AMERICA arrives! He dives in just in time and BLOCKS the blast with his SHIELD, knocking down Loki on his ass.
You know, the last time I was in Germany and saw a man standing above everybody else, we ended up disagreeing.
I'm not the one who's out of time. From above Cap, the QUINJET arrives. A machine gun is pointed towards Loki.
Loki, drop the weapon and stand down. Like greased lighting, Loki sends a BLAST of blue at the QUINJET. Natasha MANEUVERS it just in time, giving Cap the time to throw his shield at Loki. They both begin to DUKE IT OUT. Loki FLINGS Cap to the ground. Cap then throws his shield, but Loki SWATS it way. Cap, using all the moves of a boxer, is KNOCKED down by Loki. Standing over him, he points the scepter's tip on his helmet.
Kneel.
Not today! Cap FLIPS and KNOCKS him out with his leg. Loki grabs him and FLIPS him over.
The guy's all over the place. Suddenly, AC/DC's "Shoot to Thrill" overdrives the QUINJET'S speakers.
Agent Romanoff, did you miss me? Both Cap and Loki look up at the sky. Tony flies over in his IRON MAN suit and blasts Loki right back to the ground. IRON MAN touches down. He stands up and pulls out every piece of weaponry the suit has.
Make your move, Reindeer Games. Loki puts up his hands and surrenders. His armor materializes away.
Good move.
Mr. Stark.
Captain.
Said anything?
Not a word.
Just get him here. We're low on time. With Loki tied up and cuffed to his seat, Tony and Steve watch from a distance, whispering.
I don't like it.
What? Rock of Ages giving up so easily?
I don't remember it being ever that easy. This guy packs a wallop.
Still, you are pretty spry, for an older fellow. What's your thing? Pilates?
What?
It's like calisthenics. You might have missed a couple things, you know, doing time as a Capsicle. Steve looks at Tony, finally meeting his ego match.
Fury didn't tell me he was calling you in.
Yeah, there's a lot of things Fury doesn't tell you. THUNDER and LIGHTNING nearly hit the jet, making it shake violently.
Where's this coming from? Thunder RUMBLES overhead. Loki stares out the window intently.
What's the matter? Scared of a little lightning?
I'm not overly fond of what follows. What the fuck? OUTSIDE THE JET A BLINDING LIGHT hits the jet. Not a light. A King. THE MIGHTY THOR. Thor OPENS the ramp and grabs Loki by the throat and flies out. Steve and Tony are left dumbstruck. Tony puts the IRON MAN helmet on.
Now there's that guy.
Another Asgardian?
Think the guy's a friendly?
Doesn't matter. If he frees Loki or kills him, the Tesseract's lost. Tony turns and gets ready to jump off the jet to chase after Thor.
Stark, we need a plan of attack!
I have a plan. Attack. IRON MAN jumps out of the jet and chases after Thor. Cap grabs a parachute to follow.
I'd sit this one out, Cap.
I don't see how I can.
These guys come from legends, they're basically gods.
There's only one God, ma'am. And I'm pretty sure he doesn't dress like that. Cap JUMPS OUT of the jet.
Where is the Tesseract?
Do I look to be in a gaming mood?!
Oh, you should thank me. With the Bifrost gone how much dark energy did the Allfather have to muster to conjure you here? Your precious Earth. Thor drops MJLNIR, causing the mountain to quake. He picks up Loki. His brother. Although Thor is pissed for what he has done, a family is everything to a man or god.
I thought you dead.
Did you mourn?
We all did. Our father...
Your father. He did tell you my true parentage, did he not? Thor lets go Loki, who walks away from Thor, causing an even bigger wedge between them.
We were raised together, we played together, we fought together. Do you remember none of that?
So you take the world I love as recompense for your imagined slights. No, the Earth is under my protection, Loki.
You think yourself above them.
Well, yes.
Then you miss the truth of ruling, brother. Throne would suit you ill. Angrily, Loki shoves his brother to the side. He walks back up to the ledge. Turns around.
I've seen worlds you've never known about! I have grown, Odinson, in my exile! I have seen the true power of the Tesseract, and when I wield it...
Who showed you this power? Who controls the would-be-king?
I am a king!
Not here! You give up the Tesseract! You give up this poisonous dream! You come home.
I don't have it. You need the cube to bring me home, but I've sent it off I know not where. Mjlnir flies back to his grasp.
You listen well, brother. I...
I'm listening.
Do not touch me again!
Then don't take my stuff.
You have no idea what you're dealing with.
Shakespeare in the park? Doth mother know you weareth her drapes?
This is beyond you, metal man. Loki will face Asgardian justice!
He gives up the Cube, he's all yours. Until then, stay out of my way... tourist. The IRON MAN helmet clamps up and he walks away. In one quick move, Thor pulls Mjlnir, throws it, and KNOCKS IRON MAN clear across into a tree.
Okay. From the mountain side, Loki watches in amusement. Thor raises his hand. Mjlnir flies back to his hand. Thor SWINGS the hammer, summoning a ray of energy. IRON MAN stands up and from his HAND BOOSTERS, a BLAST of ENERGY KNOCKS the MIGHTY AVENGER on his ass. IRON MAN flies back up and knocks Thor into a tree. Right back at you, bitch! Thor, kneeling on the ground, pulls Mjlnir to his hand, raises it to the skies and pulls in LIGHTING and THUNDER! Thor points the hammer at IRON MAN and the outpouring of bolts lighting increases in intensity. IRON MAN falls back.
Power at 400% capacity.
How about that? IRON MAN FIRES AWAY FROM HIS HAND BOOSTERS, pushing Thor to his knees. Like two gunslingers ready to draw, both Thor and IRON MAN fly towards each other and meet in the middle and ascend up.
Hey! That's enough!  Now, I don't know what you plan on doing here.
I've come here to put an end to Loki's schemes!
Then prove it! Put the hammer down.
Um, yeah, no! Bad call! He loves his hammer!
Are we done here?
In case it's unclear. You try to escape. You so much as scratch that glass. Fury presses a button which OPENS UP a HATCH underneath Loki's cell. Loki peers as much as he can from the glass. Without seeing, the sounds of GUSTING WIND would make man shit his pants. Not a god, though.
Thirty thousand feet, straight down in a steel trap. You get how that works?! Fury closes the hatch. Points at Loki.
Ant. Then points at the button which would drop Loki into the steel trap.
Boot.
Built for something a lot stronger than you.
Oh, I've heard. Loki looks into the camera.
The mindless beast, makes play he's still a man. How desperate are you, that you call upon such lost creatures to defend you?
How desperate am I? You threaten my world with war. You steal a force you can't hope to control.
You talk about peace and you kill `cause it's fun. You have made me very desperate. You might not be glad that you did.
Ooh. It burns you to come so close. To have the Tesseract, to have power, unlimited power. And for what? A warm light for all mankind to share, and then to be reminded what real power is.
He really grows on you, doesn't he?
Loki's gonna drag this out. So, Thor, what's his play?
So he's building another portal. That's what he needs Erik Selvig for.
Selvig?
He's an astrophysicist.
He's a friend.
Loki has him under some kind of spell, along with one of ours.
I wanna know why Loki let us take him. He's not leading an army from here.
I don't think we should be focusing on Loki. That guy's brain is a bag full of cats, you could smell crazy on him.
Have care how you speak. Loki is beyond reason, but he is of Asgard, and he's my brother.
He killed eighty people in two days.
He's adopted.
Iridium, what did they need the Iridium for?
It's a stabilizing agent. (walks in with Coulson; to
I'll fly you there. Keep the love alive. Means the portal won't collapse on itself, like it did at SHIELD.
How does Fury do this?
Well, that sounds exhausting. The rest of the raw materials, Agent Barton can get his hands on pretty easily. Only major component he still needs is a power source. A high energy density, something to kick start the cube.
Last night. The packet, Selvig's notes, the Extraction Theory papers. Am I the only one who did the reading?
Does Loki need any particular kind of power source?
He's got to heat the cube to a hundredand twenty million Kelvin just to break through the Coulomb barrier.
Unless, Selvig has figured out how to stabilize the quantum tunneling effect.
Well, if he could do that he could achieve Heavy Ion Fusion at any reactor on the planet.
Finally, someone who speaks English.
Is that what just happened? Tony and Banner shake hands. A glimmer in their eyes shines as the mutual respect for each other shows.
It's good to meet you, Dr. Banner. You're work on anti-electron collisions is unparalleled. And I'm a huge fan of the way you lose control and turn into an enormous green rage monster.
Let's start with that stick of his. It may be magical, but it works an awful lot like a HYDRA weapon.
I don't know about that, but it is powered by the cube. And I'd like to know how Loki used it to turn two of the sharpest men I know into his personal flying monkeys.
Monkeys? I do not understand.
I do! I understood that reference. Tony rolls his eyes, while Cap looks proud of himself.
Shall we play, doctor?
Let's play some. As Banner and Tony walk out, the GALAGA PLAYER turns ever so discreetly, watches as everyone else disperses and goes back to playing.
The gamma readings are definitely consistent with Selvig's reports on the Tesseract. But it's gonna take weeks to process.
If we bypass their mainframe and direct a reroute to the Homer cluster, we can clock this around six hundred teraflops.
All I packed was a tooth brush.
Thanks, but the last time I was in New York I kind of broke...Harlem.
Well, I promise a stress free environment. No tension. No surprises. Suddenly, Tony pokes Banner with a MINIATURE ELECTRICAL PROD. Steve walks in on them, pissed at Tony.
Tony looks at Banner closely.
Nothing?
You really have got a lid on it, haven't you? What's your secret? Mellow jazz? Bongo drums? Huge bag of weed?
Is everything a joke to you?
Funny things are.
Threatening the safety of everyone on this ship isn't funny. No offense, doctor.
No, it's alright. I wouldn't have come aboard if I couldn't handle pointy things.
You're tiptoeing, big man. You need to strut.
And you need to focus on the problem, Mr. Stark.
You think I'm not? Why did Fury call us and why now? Why not before? What isn't he telling us? I can't do the equation unless I have all the variables.
You think Fury's hiding something?
He's a spy. Captain, he's the spy. His secrets have secrets.  It's bugging him too, isn't it?
 Uh...I just wanna finish my work here and...
Doctor? A beat.
'A warm light for all mankind, Loki's jab at Fury about the cube.
I heard it.
 Well, I think that was meant for you. Even if Barton didn't post that all over the news.
The Stark Tower? That big ugly  ...building in New York?
It's powered by Stark Reactors, self- sustaining energy source. That building will run itself for what, a year?
That's just the prototype. I'm kind of the only name in clean energy right now.
 So, why didn't SHIELD bring him in on the Tesseract project? I mean, what are they doing in the energy business in the first place?
I should probably look into that once my decryption programmer finishes breaking into all of SHIELD's secure files.
 I'm sorry, did you say...?
Jarvis has been running it since I hit the bridge. In a few hours we'll know every dirty secret SHIELD has ever tried to hide.  Blueberry?
Yet you're confused about why they didn't want you around?
An intelligence organization that fears intelligence? Historically, not possible.
I think Loki's trying to wind us up. This is a man who means to start a war, and if don't stay focused, he'll succeed. We have orders, we should follow them.
Following is not really my style.
 Of the people in this room, which one is; A. wearing a spangly outfit, and B. not of use?
Steve, tell me none of this smells a little funky to you? Steve takes in the possibility, but as an obedient soldier, shakes it off.
Just find the cube. Steve walks out of the lab. Still torn apart by the possibility, he walks away, towards the HULL of the ship.
That's the guy my dad never shut up about? Wondering if they shouldn't have kept him on ice.
The guy's not wrong about Loki. He does have the jump on us.
What he's got is an ACME dynamite kit.
It's gonna blow up in his face, and I'm gonna be there when it does.
And I'll read all about it.
Uh-huh. Or you'll be suiting up like the rest of us.
Ah, see. I don't get a suit of armor. I'm exposed, like a nerve. It's a nightmare.
You know, I've got a cluster of shrapnel, trying every second to crawl its way into my heart. (points at the MINI-ARC REACTOR in his chest) This stops it. This little circle of light. It's part of me now, not just armor. It's a... terrible privilege.
But you can control it.
Because I learned how.
It's different. Banner tries to read the computer screen, but Tony slides the data aside with his finger so the two can see face-to-face.
Hey, I've read all about your accident. That much gamma exposure should have killed you.
So you're saying that the Hulk... the other guy... saved my life?
That's nice. It's a nice sentiment. Saved it for what?
You might not like that.
You just might.
Thank you. It's no accident Loki taking Erik Selvig. I dread what he plans for him once he's done. Erik is a good man.
They were better as they were. We pretend on Asgard that we're more advanced, but we...we come here battling like BILCHSTEIM.
BILCHSTEIM? You know; huge, scaly, big antlers. You don't have those?
They are repulsive, and they trample everything in their path. Thor walks over to the side of the ship and looks out the window, lamenting about what has happened and what may come.
When I first came to earth, Loki's rage followed me here and your people paid the price. And now again. In my youth I courted war.
War hasn't started yet.
I do not know. Loki's mind is far afield, it's not just power he craves, it's vengeance upon me. There's no pain that would prize his need from him.
A lot of guys think that, until the pain stops.
What are you asking me to do?
I'm asking. What are you prepared to do?
Loki is a prisoner.
Then why do I feel like he's the only person on this boat that wants to be here? Thor doesn't answer.
There's not many people that can sneak up on me. (turns to see NATASHA
But you figured I'd come.
After. After whatever tortures Fury can concoct, you would appear as a friend, as a balm. And I would cooperate.
I wanna know what you've done to Agent Barton.
I'd say I've expanded his mind.
And once you've won. Once you're king of the mountain. What happens to his mind?
Is this love, Agent Romanoff?
Love is for children. I owe him a debt.
(she pulls up a chair as
Before I worked for SHIELD, I uh...well, I made a name for myself. I have a very specific skillset. I didn't care who I used it for, or on. I got on SHIELD's radar in a bad way. Agent Barton was sent to kill me, he made a different call.
And what will you do if I vow to spare him?
Not let you out.
Regimes fall every day. I tend not to weep over that, I'm Russian... or was.
What is it you want?
It's really not that complicated. I've got red in my ledger, I'd like to wipe it out.
Can you? Can you wipe out that much red? DRAKOV'S daughter? SO PAULO? THE HOSPITAL FIRE? Barton told me everything. Your ledger is dripping, it's gushing red, and you think saving a man no more virtuous than yourself will change anything?
- Tony and Banner continuously work at their monitors.
You lie and kill in the service of liars and killers. - Agent Hill checks every VIEWSCREEN in the bridge. Fury oversees.
You pretend to be separate, to have your own code, something that makes up for the horrors. But they are a part of you, and they will never go away! - Steve opens a STEEL crate. Angry, he looks behind him and looks back into the crate. THE CRATE IS FILLED WITH AN ARRAY OF
I won't touch Barton. Not until I make him kill you! Slowly. Intimately. In every way he knows you fear! And when he'll wake just long enough to see his good work, and when he screams, I'll split his skull! This is my bargain, you mewling quim! NATASHA turns around, walks away from Loki, disgusted.
 So, Banner... that's your play.
Uh...kind of been wondering the same thing about you.
You're supposed to be locating the Tesseract.
We are. The model's locked and we're sweeping for the signature now. When we get a hit, we'll have the location within half a mile.
And you'll get your cube back, no muss, no fuss. (suddenly his monitor show a collection of SECRET FILES) What is PHASE 2? Suddenly, Steve drops a HYDRA ASSAULT RIFLE on the table causing Fury, Banner and Tony to turn around. Cap looks pissed.
PHASE 2 is SHIELD uses the cube to make weapons.
 Rogers, we gathered everything related to the Tesseract. This does not mean that we're...
I'm sorry, Nick. Tony moves the computer screen towards Fury which shows plans of
What were you lying?
I was wrong, director. The world hasn't changed a bit. At that moment, Thor and Natasha walk into the lab. Natasha keeps her eyes right on Banner. Banner looks at her, PISSED.
Did you know about this?
You wanna think about removing yourself from this environment, doctor?
I was in Calcutta, I was pretty well removed.
Loki's manipulating you.
And you've been doing what exactly?
You didn't come here because I bat my eyelashes at you.
Yes, and I'm not leaving because suddenly you get a little twitchy. I'd like to know why SHIELD is using the Tesseract to build weapons of mass destruction.
Because of him. 
Last year earth had a visitor from another planet who had a grudge match that leveled a small town. We learned that not only are we not alone, but we are hopelessly, hilariously, outgunned.
My people want nothing but peace with your planet.
But you're not the only people out there, are you? And, you're not the only threat. The world's filling up with people who can't be matched, they can't be controlled.
Like you controlled the cube?
You're work with the Tesseract is what drew Loki to it, and his allies. It is the signal to all the realms that the earth is ready for a higher form of war.
A higher form?
You forced our hand. We had to come up with something.
Nuclear deterrent. `Cause that always calms everything right down.
Remind me again how you made your fortune, Stark?
I'm sure if he still made Wait! Wait! Hold on! How is weapons, Stark would be neck this now about me? deep... I'm sorry, isn't THOR everything? I thought humans were more evolved than this.
Excuse me, did WE come to YOUR planet and blow stuff up?
Did you always give your champions such mistrust?
Are you all really that Captain America is on naive? S.H.I.E.L.D monitors potential threat potential threats? watch list?
I swear to God, Stark, one You're on that list? Are you more crack... above or below angry bees? Threatening! I feel threatened! As the "team" argues, they don't realize the BLUE GEM on Loki's scepter is glowing brightly.
Arms to ammunition, over. Inside, BARTON and his crew suit up and arm themselves. Barton pulls out his hi-tech bow and arrows.
You speak of control, yet you court chaos.
It's his M.O., isn't it? I mean, what are we, a team? No, no, no. We're a chemical mixture that makes chaos. We're... we're a time-bomb.
You need to step away.
 Why shouldn't the guy let off a little steam?
 You know damn well why! Back off!
 Oh, I'm starting to want you to make me.
Big man in a suit of armor. Take that off, what are you?
Genius, billionaire, playboy, philanthropist.
I know guys with none of that worth ten of you. Yeah, I've seen the footage.
The only thing you really fight for is yourself. You're not the guy to make the sacrifice play, to lay down on a wire and let the other guy crawl over you.
I think I would just cut the wire.
 A hero? Like you? You're a lab rat, Rogers. Everything special about you came out of a bottle!
Put on the suit, let's go a few rounds. Thor laughs at them.
You people are so petty... and tiny. Tony rubs his head. Moves away from Cap.
Yeah, this is a tee...
Agent Romanoff, would you escort Dr.Banner back to his...
Where? You rented my room.
The cell was just in case...
In case you needed to kill me, but you can't! I know! I tried!
You wanna know my secret, Agent Romanoff? You wanna know how I stay calm? BLACK WIDOW and Fury have their hands down to grab their guns.
Doctor Banner... put down the scepter.
Got it. Banner puts down the scepter and walks over to the computer.
Sorry, kids. You don't get to see my little party trick after all.
Located the Tesseract?
I can get there faster.
Look, all of us...
The Tesseract belongs on Asgard, no human is a match for it. Tony turns to leave, but Steve stops him.
You're not going alone!
You gonna stop me?
Put on the suit, let's find out.
I'm not afraid to hit an old man.
Put on the suit. At that moment Banner who's looking at the monitor notices something about the Tesseract.
Oh, my God!
Put on the suit!
Yep! Steve helps Tony up and out of the lab. Fury sits up, clutching his ribs. He puts on his EARPIECE.
Hill?!
 Turbine's loose. Mostly intact, but it's impossible to get out there and make repairs while we're in the air.
Stark! You copy that?!
I'm on it!
Coulson! Initiate official lock down in the detention section then get to the armory! Move out!
 I'm okay. We're okay, right?
Get that engine down! Detention! Get him through the dark! Come with me. Two of his men follow him. They head towards the bridge.
Find engine three. I'll meet you there. Cap peels off as Tony approaches a tech room. Inside, Tony's IRON MAN suit stands waiting, lit above in all its glory.
Doctor... Bruce, you gotta fight it. This is just what Loki wants. We're gonna be okay. Listen to me. Two approaching SHIELD soldiers arrive to check on her. She furiously WAVES them away. They bolt out of there.
We're gonna be okay. Right? I swear on my life I will get you out of this, you will walk away, and never...
Your life? His voice has the change in it -- the bitter amusement is morphing to a growled threat. Another explosion rocks the carrier -- and he turns to look at her, transforming just as the lights go out.
Bring the carrier inwards and head south. Take us to the water.
Why water? Navigations recalibrated after the engine failure.
Is the sun coming up?!
Yes, sir.
Then put it on the left! Get us over water! One more turbine goes down and we drop.
Engine 3 is totally dead. A LARGE CHUNK of the port side in TORN
Stark, I'm here!
Good. See what we got. Tony flies in his IRON MAN suit and gets close to the damaged engine.
I gotta get this super conducting cooling system back online before I can access the rotors and work on dislodging the debris.
I need you to get to that engine control panel and tell me which relays are in overload position. IRON MAN flies into giant cooling conductors. CAPTAIN AMERICA JUMPS over to the other side of the broken railing. CAPTAIN AMERICA gets himself to the control panel and opens it up. For a man who grew up as a YANK, what the fuck is this!
What's it look like in there?
It seems to run on some form of electricity.
Well, you're not wrong.
...and then a ROAR. THE HULK. Natasha FIRES a shot into a liquid nitrogen pipe that hits the hulk in face. The HULK SMASHES THE SHIT OUT OF IT. Natasha begins to run through the maze of corridors. The sound the monster is coming. Finally, she reaches and a long corridor. As she runs, behind her, the HULK TEARS up the hallway, coming at her. Natasha turns to see, but the HULK SLAPS her into the wall,
We are not your enemies, Banner! Try to think! HULK lifts his arm up, to Thor's surprise, and he SENDS HIM
The relays are intact. What's our next move?
Even if I clear the rotors, this thing won't re-engage without a jump. I'm gonna have to get in there and push.
Well if that thing gets up to speed, you'll get shredded!
Then stay in the control unit and reverse polarity long enough to disengage mag...
Speak English!
See that red lever? It'll slow the rotors down long enough for me to get out. Stand by it, wait for my word. CAPTAIN AMERICA looks over at the other side where he was. He sees the red lever and JUMPS towards it.
The ROAR gets LOUDER and CLOSER. Thor focuses. His hand strains toward mid-air. His eyes tight in concentration. The HULK runs right at him. At the last second, MJLNIR flies into his hand and Thor UPPERCUTS HULK, WHO CRASHES INTO A FIGHTER JET. HULK stands up, shaking his head like `what the fuck just happened.' He SHAKES it off and ANGRILY rips off the TAIL of the jet, TORQUES HIS BODY LIKE A GREEK DISCUS THROWER AND... HURLS
We need a full evac on the lower hangar bay. Agent Hill nods. She leaves to exit out, but a SLIDING GRENADE appears.
The grenade goes off, sending her down the steps. Fury FIRES a shot at the open entrance. He moves over behind the side of the entrance. A handful of Barton's men enter. Watchful, ready, waiting... Fury steps out, his GUN drawn. A SHOOT OUT and HAND-TO-HAND ensues, but Fury is unable to stop one of them, which is why he is shot in the head by Agent Hill, who looks hot and sexy holding her gun.
Get his attention.
They are not getting through here, so what the hell... Suddenly, Barton LOOSES an arrow down to the bridge and EXPLODES critical spots. Barton releases a multi-tipped arrow towards Fury, but instead hits his command desk, right above a USB
Fury FIRES at Barton, but is already gone. The arrow then self- activates and inserts itself into the outlets, hacking every single monitor and main frame. The hacking causes Engine 1 to shut off. Suddenly, the HELICARRIER begins to DANGEROUSLY TILT to one side.
It's Barton. He took out our systems. He's headed for the detention level. Does anybody copy?
This is Agent Romanoff. I copy. Natasha SPRINGS up and runs for Barton.
Stark, we're losing altitude.
Yeah. Noticed. The rotors start propelling faster and faster as IRON MAN'S BOOSTERS get more and more bright. On the other side, CAPTAIN AMERICA continuously shoots at Barton's men. Blinking at the wrong moment, CAPTAIN AMERICA loses the upper hand and SLIDES off the railing, but grabs onto a LOOSE CABLE.
Thor CHARGES at his brother. Loki walks up to him and CROUCHES down to attack. THOR ONLY GOES THROUGH HIM. The false Loki dissipates into nothingness. THE REAL LOKI comes out from behind the cell door, which closes on THOR, locking him up. Loki smiles.
Are you ever not going to fall for that?
(smiles; walks over to the
The humans think us immortal. Should we test that? Suddenly, GUARDING SOLDIER falls down like a tree. AGENT COULSON stands there, holding PHASE 2 WEAPON PROTOTYPE.
Nooo! Loki sends Agent Coulson against the wall. Agent Coulson slumps down, breathing fast. Loki makes his way to the control switch. He gives his brother one last look. Thor looks at him, hopeful. Loki opens the HATCH. Thor still hopes. LOKI HITS THE BUTTON AND
Natasha... Natasha COLDCOCKS him. Barton is out.
Your heroes are scattered, your floating fortress falls from the sky...where is my disadvantage?
I don't think I...
Cap, I need the lever!
I need a minute here!
Lever. Now! Tony lets go of the rotors. They spin by themselves. Tony is then caught in one. He is now fucked. IRON MAN slips into the rotors, getting chewed up.
BARTON'S MAN opens fire once more. CAPTAIN AMERICA pulls himself up and finally PULLS the lever. A VENT opens up from Engine 3. IRON MAN falls out, but the suit heavily damaged, hardly keeping him up. IRON MAN heads for Cap. BARTON'S MAN turns his AIM to IRON MAN, who TACKLES him into the wall. IRON MAN rolls over, tired. Cap lets out a sigh of relief.
Just stay awake. EYES ON ME!
Not an option.
Agent Coulson is down. Agent Hill is being treated for a gash on her head, listens on her headset, standing up.
Paramedics are on their way.
They're here.
They called it.
These were in Phil Coulson's jacket. Guess he never did get you to sign them. Fury throws Coulson's CAPTAIN AMERICA TRADING CARDS on the table towards Steve. Steve picks them up, STAINED WITH BLOOD.
We're dead in the air up here. Our communications, location of the cube, Banner, Thor. I got nothing for you. Lost my one good eye. Maybe I had that coming.
Well, it's an old fashioned notion.
You fell out of the sky.
There's nobody around here to get hurt. You did scare the hell out of some pigeons though.
Lucky.
Or just good aim. You were awake when you fell.
You saw?
The whole thing, right through the ceiling. Big and green and buck ass nude. Here... He throws Banner a pair of big pants. Banner pulls on his pants.
I didn't think those would fit you until you shrunk down to a regular size fella.
Thank you. A beat.
Are you an alien?
What?
From outer space, an alien?
No.
Well then, son, you've got a condition.
Clint, you're gonna be alright.
You know that? Is that what you know? I got...I gotta go in though. I gotta flush him out.
We don't have that long, it's gonna take time.
I don't understand. Have you ever had someone take your brain and play? Pull you out and send something else in? Do you know what it's like to be unmade?
You know that I do.
Why am I back? How did you get him out?
Cognitive recalibration. I hit you really hard in the head.
Thanks. (Natasha unfastens the
Tasha, how many agents?
Don't. Don't do that to yourself, Clint. This is Loki. This is monsters and magic and nothing we were ever trained for.
Loki, he got away?
Yeah. I don't suppose you know where?
I didn't need to know. I didn't ask. He's gonna make his play soon though. Today.
We gotta stop him.
Yeah? Who's we?
I don't know. Whoever's left.
Well, if I put an arrow in Loki's eyesocket, I'd sleep better I suppose.
Now you sound like you. Natasha sits next to her partner and friend.
But you don't. You're a spy, not a soldier. Now you want to wade into a war. Why? What did Loki do to you?
He didn't, I just...
Natasha.
I've been compromised. I got red in my ledger. I'd like to wipe it out.
Was he married?
No. There was a uh...cellist, I think.
I'm sorry. He seemed like a good man.
He was an idiot.
Why? For believing?
For taking on Loki alone.
He was doing his job.
He was out of his league. He should have waited. He should have...
Sometimes there isn't a way out, Tony.
Is this the first time you've lost a soldier?
 WE ARE NOT SOLDIERS! I am not marching to Fury's fife!
Neither am I! He's got the same blood on his hands as Loki does. Right now we've got to put that aside and get this done. Now Loki needs a power source, if we can put together a list...
(looking at the blood stained
He made it personal.
That's not the point.
That is the point. That's Loki's point. He hit us all right where we live. Why?
To tear us apart.
He had to conquer his greed, but he knows he has to take us out to win, right? That's what he wants. He wants to beat us and he wants to be seen doing it. He wants an audience.
Right, I caught his act at Stuttengard.
Yeah. That's just a preview, this is opening night. Loki's a full-tilt diva. He wants flowers, he wants parades, he wants a monument built in the skies with his name plastered...
Time to go.
Go where?
I'll tell you on the way. Can you fly one of those jets? Barton walks out of the restroom. Looks at Cap.
I can. Steve looks at Natasha and she nods her head to confirm Barton's on their side.
You got a suit?
Yeah.
Then suit up.
- KRAKAKABOOM! A blinding BOLT OF LIGHTNING strikes down from above, colliding on MJLNIR. The explosion is massive. THE
- CAPTAIN AMERICA pulls on his HELMET and SHIELD. - Tony WELDS his IRON MAN helmet. LIGHT slips down over IRON MAN's eye holes. - BLACK WIDOW attaches a GLOVE GAUNTLET with her rounds on her wrist. A BLUE LIGHT CHARGES. - HAWKEYE slips on his QUIVER of arrows.
Son... just don't.
Agent Hill?
They needed the push.  A LOUD NOISE SCREECHES. Fury looks out to see IRON MAN flying off as well as the QUINJET.
They found it. Get our communications back up, whatever you have to do. I want eyes on everything.
Sir, I took off the arc reactor. The device is already self-sustained.
Shut it down, Dr. Selvig.
It's too late! It can't stop now. He wants to show us something! A new universe.
Okay. IRON MAN aims his hands toward the CMS and FIRES. The energy from his boosters SHATTERS with a deafening CRACK! Selvig falls backwards. DOWN BELOW, CITIZENS OF NEW YORK look up at STARK TOWER. IRON MAN stares in disbelief at the CMS ... unharmed.
The barrier is pure energy. It's unbreachable. The Mark VII is not ready to be deployed.
Skip the spinning rims. We're on the clock. TONY lands his SUIT and goes through the gauntlet and unsuits him. LOKI looks up at him, smiling. They proceed to walk into the penthouse.
Please tell me you're going to appeal to my humanity.
Uh...actually, I'm planning to threaten you.
You should have left your armor on for that.
Yeah, it's seen a bit of mileage. You've got the blue stick of destiny. Would you like a drink?
Stalling me won't change anything.
No, no, no! Threatening. No drink? You sure? I'm having one.
The CHITAURI are coming, nothing will change that. What have I to fear?
 It's what we call ourselves, sort of like a team. `EARTH'S MIGHTIEST HEROES' type of thing.
Yes, I've met them.
But, let's do a head count here. Your brother, the demi-God; a super soldier, a living legend who kind of lives up to the legend; a man with breath-taking anger management issues; a couple of master assassins, and you, big fella, you've managed to piss off every single one of them.
That was the plan.
Not a great plan. When they come, and they will, they'll come for you. From underneath the bar table, Tony pulls on COLANTOTTE BRACELETS, a honing device.
I have an army.
We have a HULK.
I thought the beast had wandered off.
You're missing the point. There's no throne, there is no version of this, where you come out on top. Maybe your army comes and maybe it's too much for us, but it's all on you. Because if we can't protect the Earth, you can be damned well sure we'll avenge it.
 How will your friends have time for me,when they're so busy fighting you? Loki TAPS Tony on the chest with his scepter. PING! Nothing. Confused, Loki tires again. PING! NOTHING.
It should work.
Well, performance issues. You know? In anger, Loki GRABS Tony by the throat and FLINGS him across the room.
Jarvis. Anytime now. Loki grabs Tony by the throat again.
You will all fall before me. LOKI THROWS TONY OUT THE WINDOW. Tony FREEFALLS down the tower. From behind Loki, an elevator opens and a RED POD SHOOTS out. The pod LASER SIGNALS the COLANTOTTE BRACELETS on Tony. The POD begins to TRANSFORM into the MARK VII suit. It LATCHES onto Tony. IRON MAN. The suit FLIES up before he hits the ground or the gazing people. Loki looks up, angry.
And there's one other person you pissed off! His name was Phil. Loki raises the scepter. IRON MAN FIRES at Loki, sending him on his ass.
Right. Army. IRON MAN flies up towards the portal. From his shoulders, a miniature multiple rocket launcher, pops out and FIRES. Like the JERICHO MISSILE, several targets are taken down unlike no missile. It's useless. THOUSANDS OF CHITAURI FLY OUT. IRON MAN flies towards the city.
Loki! Turn off the Tesseract or I'll destroy it!
You can't. There is no stopping it. There is only the war!
So be it. Loki and Thor rush at each other. They and their weapons collide. The two battle -- Loki unleashing another pent-up rage and jealousy, Thor having no choice but to defend himself.
Stark, we're heading north east.
What, did you stop for drive-thru? Swing up PARK, I'm gonna lay 'em out for you.
Flying up, IRON MAN puts the following CHITAURI in view of the QUINJET. BLACK WIDOW takes out machine gun and FIRES at the
Sir, we have more incoming.
Fine. Let's keep them occupied. IRON MAN heads back to the portal.
Yeah.
See them. HAWKEYE BANKS the jet towards STARK TOWER. Aims the MINIGUN at Loki. Loki AIMS the scepter at the QUINJET and FIRES A BLAST OF ENERGY. Thor gets to his feet, TACKLING Loki down hard. THE QUINJET is soon caught on fire. HAWKEYE maneuvers one wing of the jet. They SPIN and SLOW. DROPPING OUT OF THE AIR AS IT PASSES OVER SKYSCRAPERS. Then... they SLAM into the street.
Stark, are you seeing this?
I'm seeing, still working on believing. Where's Banner? Has he shown up yet?
Banner?
Just keep me posted. Jarvis, find me a soft spot. IRON MAN quietly flies behind and parallel with the CHITAURI
Look at this! Look around you! You think this madness will end with your rule?
 It's too late. It's too late to stopit.
No. We can. Together. Loki looks at his brother, showing a sign of hope. Then... Loki stabs Thor with a small knife. Thor keels over.
Sentiment. Thor gets up, KICKS Loki and lifts him into the air. Thor then SLAMS him down, hard. Loki, bleeding, rolls over the edge. Thor looks down. LOKI IS RIDING ON A FLYING CHARIOT. DOZENS of CHITAURI follow his lead.
Those people need assistance down there. CHITAURI SOLDIERS that have landed near them and begin FIRING at them. BLACK WIDOW pulls both pistols and FIRES. Turns to Cap.
We got this. It's good. Go!
Captain. (pulls a trigger on his bow; a narrow is mechanically
It would be my genuine pleasure. HAWKEYE shoots an ARROW into the creature's head, gaining a few seconds for CAPTAIN AMERICA as he falls down the bridge, followed by an EXPLOSION. Cap races over to the plaza, jumping over dozens of EXPLODING cars. THE FIRST AVENGER RUNS LIKE A FUCKING CHEETAH. HAWKEYE runs over a bus full of people. From the windows, SMALL CHILDREN are held by their parents for HAWKEYE to pull them out to safety. He runs over to the jammed door and JERKILY opens it. People begin to run out. BLACK WIDOW empties out her CLIPS. HAWKEYE fires ARROWS into the ranks of the CHITAURI, hitting his mark each time he shoots.
Just like BUDAPEST all over again!
You and I remember Budapest verydifferently.
We need to get out! They gotta bring the National Guard!
National Guard? Does the army know what's happening here?
Do we? CAPTAIN AMERICA jumps in front of them. They look up at this ridiculous looking man.
I need men in these buildings. There are people inside that can run into the line of fire. You take them through the basement or through the subway. You keep them off the streets. I need a perimeter as far back as 39th.
Why the hell should I take orders from you? Suddenly, an EXPLOSION comes up from behind Cap. An ENERGY BLAST is blocked by his SHIELD. TWO CHITAURI SOLDIERS attack. The cops watch in shock as CAPTAIN AMERICA FIGHTS them off with ease. The Sergeant turns to his officer.
I need men in those buildings, lead the people down and away from the streets. I need a perimeter as far back as 39th.
Lightning strikes down from the sky, channeling the blast, firing the electricity out at the CHITAURI SOLDIERS around them. They're blasted back in a massive shockwave. The CHITAURI SOLDIERS convulse, drop dead to the ground. THOR TOUCHES DOWN.
What's the story upstairs?
The powers surrounding the cube is impenetrable.
Thor is right. We gotta deal with these guys.
How do we do this?
As a team.
I have unfinished business with Loki.
Yeah, get in line.
Save it. Loki's gonna keep this fight focused on us and that's what we need. Without him these things could run wild. We got Stark up top, he's gonna need us... Just then, BANNER ARRIVES ON A SMALL MOTORBIKE. Getting off, he looks around the city.
So, this all seems horrible.
I've seen worse.
Sorry.
No. We could use a little worse.
Stark? We got him.
Banner?
Just like you said.
Then tell him to suit up. I'm bringing the party to you. IRON MAN comes out from behind a building. The CHITAURI LEVIATHAN follows, impatiently.
I... I don't see how that's a party... IRON MAN SWOOPS down the street. The CHITAURI LEVIATHAN also swoops down, BARRELING down the street like a FREIGHT TRAIN that keeps building and building its intensity.Banner looks behind. Cap looks at him. Banner begins to walk towards the monster.
Dr. Banner. Now might be a really good time for you to get angry.
That's my secret, Captain. I'm always angry. Banner's body starts to swell and stretch and harden. GREEN
Send the rest.
Guys.
Call it, Cap.
Alright, listen up. Until we can close that portal up there, we're gonna use containment. Barton, I want you on that roof, eyes on everything. Call out patterns and strays. Stark, you got the perimeter. Anything gets more than three blocks out, you turn it back or your turn it to ash.
Wanna give me a lift?
Right. Better clench up, LEGOLAS. IRON MAN lifts HAWKEYE up to the building.
Thor, you've gotta try and bottleneck that portal. Slow them down. You've got the lightning. Light the bastards up.  You and me, we stay here on the ground, keep the fighting here. And Hulk.SMASH.
Stark. You got a lot of strings sticking to your tail.
Just try and keep them off the streets.
Well, they can't bank worth a damn. Find a tight corner.
I will roger that. IRON MAN does so and leads towards TIGHT CORNERS and in HAWKEYE'S view, who fires arrow upon and arrow, EXPLODING the CHITAURI RIDERS. IRON MAN keeps leading CHITAURI RIDERS UNDER TUNNELS, THROUGH OPEN PARKING GARAGES. He looks back. None left.
Nice call. What else you got?
Well, Thor's taking on a squadron down on 6th.
And he didn't invite me?
Captain, none of this is gonna mean a damn thing if we don't close that portal.
Our biggest guns couldn't touch it.
Well, maybe it's not about guns. (gestures the flying
You wanna get up there, you're gonna need a ride.
I got a ride. I could use a lift though. BLACK WIDOW backs up giving herself a running start. Cap lifts and angles his SHIELD.
Are you sure about this?
Yeah. It's gonna be fun.
[Note: The following sequence will take us through the action in one extended shot.] - BLACK WIDOW climbs onto the chariot and CUTS the turret shooter's linkage to it. She then JUMPS on the rider and STICKS her knives into his nervous system. She gets him to BANK over a building. - IRON MAN arrives and SHOOTS any other CHITAURI RIDERS following her. He makes his way down to CAPTAIN AMERICA, who fights off more CHITAURI SOLDIERS. IRON MAN points his HAND BOOSTERS at his SHIELD. The energy comes off and Cap uses it as a REFLECTION BEAM and takes down nearby CHITAURI. - From above them, HAWKEYE sends down remaining arrows. He sends one across the street, taking down a CHITAURI RIDER following
- Finally, we have THOR and HULK fight on top the back of the CHITAURI LEVIATHAN, tearing apart and fighting SOLDIERS. HULK
Captain, the bank on 42ndpast MADISON, they caught a lot of civilians there.
I'm on it.
CAPTAIN AMERICA jumps through the window and throws his SHIELD at the CHITAURI BOMBER. The TWO CHITAURI SOLDIERS aim their rifles, but Cap heads for cover under a desk, which he KICKS at them. CAPTAIN AMERICA jumps over the desk, HEADLOCKS A SOLDIER, while BACKHANDING another one over the railing. The crowd moves away. A CHITAURI SOLDIER attacks him from behind and RIPS OFF HIS HELMET. The bomb is beeping faster.
Everyone! Clear out! CAPTAIN AMERICA flips over the SOLDIER, grabs his SHIELD and just as the BOMB is about to GO OFF, CHITAURI BOMBER dives for, trying to stop it, but it GOES OFF, sending CAPTAIN AMERICA through the window, landing very hard on a car. The civilians look up from below. They're okay.
I recognize the council has made a decision, but given that it's a stupid ass decision, I've elected to ignore it.
That is the island of Manhattan, Councilman. Until I'm certain my team can't hold it, I will not order a nuclear strike against a civilian population.
I send that bird out, we already have. Fury shuts off his viewscreen.
Oh. You. LOKI FOLLOWS IN HOT PURSUIT. They RACE DOWNWARD, trailing between buildings. They RACE MADLY, driving and dodging.
Nat, what are you doing?
Uh... a little help! HAWKEYE pulls the trigger twice, nocks an arrow, and points it at Loki, smiling.
I've got him.
Doctor.
Loki's scepter, the energy...the Tesseract can't fight. You can't protect against yourself.
It's not your fault. You didn't know what you were doing.
Well, actually I think I did. I built in a safety to cut the power source.
Loki's scepter.
It might be able to close the portal. (Selvig looks down. He sees a
And I'm looking right at it.
IRON MAN flies right next to the CHITAURI LEVIATHAN and aims his LASER BOOSTER at it. Nothing.
Sir, we will lose power before you cut through that shell. IRON MAN flies up ahead, facing the oncoming monster.
JARVIS. You ever hear the tale of Jonah?
I wouldn't consider him a role model.
Stark, you hearing me? We have a missile headed straight for the city.
How long?
Three minutes, at best. Stay low and wipe out the missile.
Jarvis, put everything we got into the thrusters!
I just did. IRON MAN leaves the streets and flies up into the sky.
You ready for another bout?
What? You gettin' sleepy?
I can close it! Can anybody hear me? I can shut the portal down!
Do it!
No, wait!
Stark, these things are still coming!
I got a nuke coming in, it's gonna blow in less than a minute. And I know just where to put it.
With a mighty effort, he wrenches the rocket off its course. Steering it from behind, he accelerates quickly, flying straight up into sky, towards the portal.
Stark, you know that's a one-way trip?
Sir. Shall I call Miss Potts?
You might as well.
Come on, Stark...
 Close it.
He's not slowing down. Thor swings Mjlnir around. Just as Thor flies up, THE HULK
What the hell? What just happened? Please tell me nobody kissed me?
Alright. Hey. Alright. Good job, guys. Let's just not come in tomorrow. Let's just take a day. Have you ever tried shawarma? There's a shawarma joint about two blocks from here. I don't know what it is, but I wanna try it.
 We're not finished yet. A beat.
And then shawarma after.
If it's all the same to you. I'll have that drink.
Superheroes? In New York? Give me a break!
These so called heroes have to be held responsible for the destruction done to the city. This was their fight. Where are they now?
What? That this was somehow their fault? Captain America saved my life. Wherever he is, wherever any of them are, I just wanna say thank you.
I'm not currently tracking their whereabouts. I'd say they've earned a leave of absence.
The Tesseract is where it belongs: out of our reach.
I didn't make it. I just didn't argue with the god that did.
Oh, I think he will be.
They surely are. And the whole world knows it. Every world knows it.
A promise.
They'll come back.
I am.
Because we'll need them to.
