What's taking so long back there? CUT TO:
Where the rest of the gang waits.      NOAH, KUNI, FERGUSON, and CASPER. All dressed in black      like Fouchet, except for ANDY. He stands and shows off      his Miami PD uniform. His English is poor, yet he's got     a big, happy-to-be- along grin on his face. ANDY How do I look? Like the real thing, yeah? FOUCHET Step back and lemme get a good look at you.
FOUCHET Tell me again about your assignment, Andrew? ANDY I'm the decoy. FOUCHET Right you are. Over the seat Fouchet reveals a SHOTGUN.     BOOM!
FOUCHET Please help! I just saw a policeman shot! Send help. Hurry! I'm at the corner of...
Report of an officer down. Be advised, all units. Corner of Lennox and Taylor. Slipping by the street cop: Intro MARCUS BURNETT and MIKE LOWREY. They shimmy through the hotel doors.
Good evening.    I'm Mike -- BURNETT -- And I'm Marcus. LOWREY We're lookin' for a couple of our Latin friends who checked in a little while ago. You might remember them? 
BANG! The door's kicked in and Lowrey's first through. Burnett on backup. LOWREY Police!   On the floor! But the dealers split, rolling out of their chairs.   One goes left and the other, right. CUT TO:
 Nice backup. LOWREY What? We TILT UP as POLICE HELICOPTER flies overhead.
It's time. The team crosses the roof to a huge air conditioning unit. They climb inside, carrying a six-foot-long metal case and what looks like a black scuba tank.
We're in.     Start the video.
 Where's Deputy Dog? FERGUSON  He made us.
Then do him, now!
CUT BACK TO:
EMPTY_LINE
CAMERA STALLS ON -- a perma-plaqued newspaper clipping with a photo depiction of Lowrey and Burnett in front of a giant pile of black heroin, thumbs up to the camera. The headline reads: MIAMI PD RECORDS RECORD HEROIN BUST.
Yes.   The very same as the one he just saw in bed.    What? LATINA TWIN 'Morning. Lowrey closes the curtain on her. Frowns at this impossibility. He steps back into the doorway and peers over at his bed. Yep, same face. Twins? LOWREY  Oh man... He tears open the bottle of aspirin.    Chug-a-lugs.
THERESA Marcus, what are you doing? BURNETT We're always saying we should spend more quality time together. Well, I got the time... and you got the quality... She laughs.   He kisses her. BURNETT I can remember when we used to do it every morning. THERESA That was how we got a three bedroom house filled with little Burnetts. She crawls from bed. BURNETT Been over a week since I've had some quality time!
Mom, Quincy pushed me. QUINCY Uncle Mike showed me that move.
Quincy, never-you-mind. And take those things off in the house! Jill, stop with the book and eat your breakfast.  Marcus, why do I always have to discipline the kids? You play bad cop for a second. Alongside the kitchen screen door we see Lowrey's PORSCHE ROAR to a stop in the driveway. BURNETT Kids, knock it off... or your momma's gonna whoop your butts! Theresa laughs in spite of herself as the kids continue to fight. Into this craziness enters Mike Lowrey... LOWREY Ah, family life. Reminds me why I stay single. JILL & QUINCY Uncle Mike!   Uncle Mike! LOWREY Hiya, kids.   Mornin', Theresa. Lowrey pecks Theresa on the cheek.   She recoils. THERESA Don't kiss me, Lowrey. I don't know where those lips were last night. 
I don't want him knowing about it either! Gives him ideas.  Hello? Oh, sure. Which one of them do you want? Lowrey accepts the phone from Theresa and talks. LOWREY You're live with Lowrey. (listens for a long beat) 'Scuse me, Captain. I think you mean to say, 'Get the fuck down here, please?' Burnett automatically pulls on his jacket, hugs the children as Lowrey hangs up.
Not so fast. You were going to take the kids to school today, remember, hon? I have a job interview... Lowrey rolls his eyes.
EMPTY_LINE
Twins? LOWREY If I'm lyin' I'm dyin'. Her sister came down and posted the girl's bail. And later? Man, talk about special effects. BURNETT What special effects?
Tell you later -- Mornin', Francine. Where's the smile? 
HOWARD Nice of you to roll in. And nothing particular is going on around here except, maybe, your dope is gone. That's right. The biggest dope bust in the history of this department up and walked out of this locker, along with maybe my job and the two of yours if we don't get the shit back. BURNETT This can't be happening. 
Because maybe this guy knows if you kill a cop the whole department'll get up his ass hard and fast. SINCLAIR And who knows that better than anybody else? Cops. BURNETT You're not sayin' this was an inside job. Cops wouldn't pull this shit. 
What about the air conditioning? HOWARD So what about it? BURNETT  What do you think? LOWREY I think you should go ahead, crawl up and give it a good look. BURNETT Why me? 
Anything? BURNETT Yeah. I got some weird track marks in here. Then Burnett notes a manufacturing stamp at the joint. It reads: ORONA AIR CONTITIONING SYSTEMS, INC.
Nice and cool up there, Burnett? Comfy? Maybe there's a new career for you in building maintenance.
BURNETT There's gonna be a lotta cash when the dope hits the street. We want you to put the word out through your bank and hustle the account.  You help us, maybe we can see about getting those R.T.C. auditors off your ass. LOWREY Listen, Cedras. You and I both know you're the number one importer for the Simona Brothers. And I'm tellin' you there's a buttload of H on the move and someone's gonna wanna stick their dick in it. So it better not be yours. You hear something? You call us. You hear nada? You better get the fuck outta town.
BURNETT Not a fucking lead. So now that we've done the obvious, we need a shortcut. LOWREY Okay.   So we talk to Max. BURNETT Huh uh. Not this time. I'm tired of you working pussy into everything we do. LOWREY You got a better idea?
MAX Hi, Mike.   You come to work-out? LOWREY Raincheck, darlin'. Gotta talk. Anyplace we can go? 
Sorry to come around only when I need something. MAX Forget about it. I owe you the rest of my life, Mike. Lowrey just gives her an "oh please" look. MAX Don't be lookin' at me like I'm getting all sentimental. LOWREY Hey, I didn't open my mouth. Listen, there's some major, major ill shit happening down at the P.D. Lotta heroin involved. There's gonna be a lotta cash involved, too. Gonna be some happy motherfuckers around that wanna party. MAX So you want me to check around? LOWREY Just make a coupla calls. See what's what. Don't be doin' no wild shit. Just call me if you hear something.
Damn! The woman's got fuckin' radar on my ass. Sensed me lookin' at another woman. Bet she wants me to pick up Huggies 'stead of those baby Garanimals that they wear. LOWREY I don't think anybody could be that married.
LOWREY  Miami's the perfect town for you, Burnett. You drive like a one- hundred-seven-year-old lady with her turn signal on. BURNETT And I plan on living to be old just like 'em. Rubbin' Ben Gay on my joints and everythin'.
You gonna let every old motherfucker pass you? Or just the ones with big-ass trailers draggin' behind? A-c-c-el-er-ate. BURNETT I don't have a death wish like you. I  got a family that counts on me.  A mortgage to pay. And I'm not sayin' it's me, but most of the guys in the station think you're some rich kid playin' cop. LOWREY Who said that?
If somebody's talking about me, I wanna know... Man, I'm so sick of this. I don't apologize for nothing I do. I get up early and take it to the max every day. I'm always the first guy through the door. And the last guy to leave a crime scene. So fuck 'em all. I could give a shit what those boot lickin', brown-nosin', ass kissin' motherfuckers think of Mike Lowrey. What can Burnett say to all that, but... 
The air conditioning business has been good to Orona. Lowrey rings the bell.   They wait.   No answer. BURNETT Well, we can leave a note or we can break and enter -- LOWREY Wait. Hear that? I thought I heard Orona beating his wife.
Uh oh.    No alarm. BURNETT Aw, man.    Did you cut one? LOWREY No, man.    Musta been you. BURNETT Not me. Lowrey and Burnett look at each other and draw guns.
Now what? A sickened Burnett goes over to the body, speaking to Orona as if he were alive. BURNETT Where are the drugs?  Where... are... the... drugs?  He ain't sayin' nothin'. He must be guilty of somethin'. Meanwhile, Lowrey's got   no problem with the dead body. He tries opening a desk   drawer, but Orona's rigor mortis- stiffened knee is in the   way. So Lowrey gives it a shove and the chair swivels.    Orona's dead arm sweeps the lamp off the desk. BURNETT Whoa. Watch where you're swinging them dead arms, Orona. You're gonna fuck up your own crime scene. 
 Jai-Alai. Dog track. Lotta bookies. Phone numbers. BURNETT Lemme guess. Guy does the air conditioning contract for the P.D. He'd have the plans. LOWREY He trades the plans for his paper and gets popped by the perps. BURNETT Works for me. Now can we go? I'm gonna puke.
Matronly, in her flowered dress and bare feet, she carries a tea tray toward the kitchen. Max is following. 
JULIE Okay.   So what'd I miss?
George? JULIE Bad moods after a bad round of golf... I had blonde hair, then. MAX What about Ronny? JULIE Sex addict.     Coke addict. Redhead. MAX You were a redhead? JULIE Only for two days. It wasn't even a phase. MAX Okay.   Mark. 
It's a favor for a friend. If it sucks after a half-hour, we'll split and head to South Beach. JULIE A favor? MAX You know, my friend Mike Lowrey. JULIE  Mike Lowrey. Not again. Will you just have sex with the man and get it over with. MAX He's just a friend. JULIE Yeah, right.     You're in love. MAX It's never gonna happen. I'm great at turning lovers into friends. But turning friends into lovers, I can't do. JULIE Well, I don't date cops. They never have enough money and they're always too tired to screw. MAX Well, I've told you before, my Mike isn't like that. If I were in real trouble, Mike Lowrey is the only person I'd call.
Max, my little carina. It's been a long time. And who's your friend? MAX Eddie.   Julie.
EDDIE Come on, Julie. Come in, Max. Welcome to the Al Capone suite. Thev're stepped into a grand, opulent suite. High arched ceilings. Magnificent antique furniture. Killer view. No party guests. EDDIE I'm not kidding. Capone had the place fixed up with secret passages and hidden stairways. Can you dig it? People were actually killed within these walls. He's moved behind them and reveals a concealed staircase that rises into darkness.
Who's the girl, Eddie? EDDIE Just a hooker --
My name's Max.  I'm just a friend. FOUCHET I could use a friend who looks like you. Turn around. Lemme get a good look. Max tries to size this man, then chooses to submit. She does her best model's turn. Slowly giving him a view of the rear when -- Fouchet draws a PISTOL -- BAM BAM!! Max tumbles forward and CRASHES through a GLASS TABLE.
You're a fucking idiot. Hookers talk. Now, is that my dope? EDDIE  Our dope... That was the deal, yeah? Right. Until we got the money -- BAM!   Fouchet SHOOTS Eddie in the knee.   Eddie screams! EDDIE You fucker... fucker fucker fucker!!! FOUCHET I have four more days until I make the deal. When it's done you get your money. Now, what part don't you understand? EDDIE Hey, man.   You need me. FOUCHET I don't need anybody. I got three little angels looking over my shoulder.
Wheels with his PISTOL, unloads the clip. BULLETS are catching up, ripping up the couch and the rest of the suite. Julie dives right into the secret door.
FOUCHET She's a hooker. Find out who she works for. Find out where she lives.
EMPTY_LINE
Looks like you're already doing that. Burnett's quick to point out the trail of bloody foot- prints Ruiz just tracked across the carpet.
Two dead. A hood registered as Eddie Dominguez and some Jane Doe. But the table over there's covered in high-grade dope. Sound familiar? LOWREY I think we    got us a witness. Over here    I got two different shades of    lipstick on one champagne    glass. Meanwhile --
He drops the sheet on Eddie's body, then moves over to Max's. He doesn't know it's her until -- BURNETT Jesus, no... LOWREY Whatcha got? 
LOWREY Eddie Dominguez. I want his phone calls. He flashes a badge. HOTEL CLERK You pay the bill you can see his phone calls. LOWREY I'm sorry.     Maybe I wasn't polite enough. With a flashing right jab, Lowrey pops the snooty Clerk. After the Clerk finds his feet, eyes peering over the counter... BURNETT I wouldn't fuck with him right now.
LOIS FIELDS I'm sorry, Jimmy. But you can't have her. Shelly only models and that's all... That's right. Like I always say, some girls do, some girls don't, and the rest you can't afford --  Hello? Jimmy... Jimmy? Suddenly, the power is cut.
Did you check parole? How about F.B.I. or D.E.A.? They're supposed to be compliant with our requests? And where the hell's Lowrey? BURNETT  Following this Lois Fields lead. I just paged him. HOWARD The madame? What's it with this guy? It's always girls, girls, girls. BURNETT  No, Theresa... No, he wasn't talking about you.
 Pulling up now, twenty-one-two. Give us your twenty in the residence... twenty-one-two. Do you copy. Twenty-one-two... The CAMERA LIFTS to reveal that Noah has vanished.
Theresa, I know it was my idea. I know I was the one who wanted a little quality time.  It's just that this can't wait.  Can't I just wake you up when I get home? 
I need to talk to Detective Lowrey! HOWARD He's not here. How can I help you? JULIE You can get me Detective Lowrey! HOWARD This isn't another paternity case, is it? JULIE No.     It's another murder case. HOWARD Did this happen at the Biltmore Hotel? JULIE Listen! I just saw my best friend murdered. I'm soaking wet. I'm alone, I'm scared and I'll only talk to Mike Lowrey! HOWARD Don't hang up. Lemme find him.  Page Lowrey. Find out where he is! BURNETT Theresa.     I gotta go. Burnett hangs up and redials Lowrey's pager.
Don't leave town. Please, and don't hang up. I've got Lowrey right here. He just walked in. (holds the phone to Burnett) Be Lowrey. BURNETT I can't be Lowrey. HOWARD Shut up and listen! She'll only talk to Lowrey. She says she's our witness. That means she's our only link to the dope, not to mention my pension plan, so get on the phone. Burnett accepts the phone. Hand over the receiver, he does a quick Lowrey impression that starts as lame and ends pretty damn convincing. BURNETT Yo, you are live with Lowrey...  Yo, you're live with Lowrey.
How do I know it's Detective Lowrey? BURNETT ... 'Cuz I'm Mike Lowrey.      I'm a cop. Wanna see my badge? JULIE Yes! I wanna see it now! I'm not letting you through the fucking door until I do. Hold it up to the peephole! Burnett shows his shield.    Holds it up to the peephole. JULIE Anybody can get one of those.
 Hey, lady. You called me, remember...? 'On the mike with Mike.' After a beat, the door swings ajar.
EMPTY_LINE
I'm undercover. She doesn't believe him and swings the bat. BURNETT Okay.    I'm way undercover. JULIE Prove it! BURNETT I knew her from way back. From time to time, you know... We'd get together. Mess around, you know? JULIE Wrong. Julie swings for real, nearly taking Burnett's head off.
Okay. Okay. So I exaggerated. It's a man thing. She swings again, but he's had enough, he moves quickly, catching the bat with his hand and ripping it away from her. BURNETT You know what? You don't wanna believe me? That's fine with me! Go it alone. Burnett heads toward the open door.     Julie's veneer drops as she shrinks to the floor. 
Good.     You got a back door? Julie nods, scoops up one of her dogs and grabbing another modeling bag off the table. JULIE Where are we going? (as she stuffs the dog into the tote) Duke! 
Let's go! JULIE Luke?!   Where's my other dog?! BURNETT Fuck the dog! Burnett sees the second dog cowering in the corner.       So he lunges over, scoops the dog up. CUT TO:
Fine time to bark. Where were you when they were comin' up the walk?  Shit. Bet they got a look at my license plates. If you saw him again, would you remember the guy who shot Max?
All I remember is one of them had really bad hair. Where are we going? BURNETT I told you, I'm putting you into protective custody... JULIE  No way. Listen, no offense, but I don't trust anybody. BURNETT Yeah.   I noticed. 
Wait here.
Detective Burnett... Mr. Lowrey is out... BURNETT He told me I could use the place tonight...
Didn't mention it to me. Chet holds out his hand. Burnett slips him ten. Chet sneaks a peek over at the car, sees Julie putting on lipstick. CHET Say.   How's that Mrs. Burnett? Burnett realizes this is going to cost him more. Gives him another ten. But for Chet it's still not enough. CHET Your children good? Mr. Lowrey says you got a regular baby factory goin' over there. 
I forgot I had those switches moved. Welcome to Casa del Lowrey. Julie enters, looking left and right, cautious but impressed by the stylish digs. JULIE Nice... very nice. All this on a cop's salary? BURNETT I uh... I invest. JULIE Right. What was your last pick? A horse in the number two race at Pimlico? Or did a bookie give you an inside tip.
-- My father invests... Listen. You must be tired -- JULIE I'll ask you this only   once, Mike. Are you on the take?    And if you say no and I discover   you're lying to me, I'll walk. Are    we clear? 
Listen, Chet. The girl? She's a witness. I'm gonna be gone for about an hour. Do me a favor. Keep your eye out, okay? CHET You know, Mr. Burnett. I'm getting off in just a few minutes, so... I could watch the door if you like. You know. In a chair. I could just sit in it. Outside the door like cops do when they're guarding shit. BURNETT Just keep an eye out. Heads for the door. CHET Yeah, I was gonna be a cop, you know? Just didn't work out. You know? Politics.
DORIS Don't you 'Honey Baby' me --
-- I swear, baby, it's nothing. I was on the job -- As she gets to the bedroom, Doris wheels around -- DORIS And you just happened to lose your wedding ring -- 'on the job?!' He looks down at his ringless finger -- BURNETT No!   No!    I got it right here... 
Chief. I tried to set   the girl up with a sketch artist  but she won't. I tried to get   her to come in and look at the mug  books and she won't come in. HOWARD She'll only deal with Mike Lowrey. He tosses a brick. BURNETT That's right. So let her deal with the real Mike Lowrey! Who, I might add, shoulda been there to take the call instead of runnin' off like a hot dog without any backup. Howard fires another missed shot. He's so bad, it's all Burnett and Lowrey can do to keep from spiking the ball. LOWREY Hey. I'm not the one who left a strange hooker alone in my apartment. You know, she's probably on the street sellin' all my shit as we speak. BURNETT I had to stash her somewhere! She's scared shitless... just like her dogs. 
You never had to go to Cleveland on police business before. BURNETT Cleveland's where they collared the dealer. And that's where I gotta go to testify. THERESA But what about us? The neighborhood's had all break-ins. I won't feel safe if you're -- BURNETT Honey. I wouldn't go if I didn't have the most trustworthy man I know to look after my family... THERESA Oh, no,   Not Lowrey. Not in my house. BURNETT Yes, Lowrey. I trust him with my life and, I most certainly trust him with yours. THERESA Why don't they send him to Cleveland? BURNETT Baby. It's a Federal subpoena. I'm the witness. I'm the one who has to testify. Case closed. I'm the one going to Cleveland. Lowrey's staying here.
Don't forget to put Snail Guard on my lawn. LOWREY Just leave Cleveland the way you found it. Burnett climbs in, waves out the window. BURNETT Bye-bye, Theresa. Be good, kids. Lowrey joins Theresa on the porch.    Mockingly he puts his arm around her and waves. THERESA Why's he taking your car? LOWREY  He's dropping it off at the mechanic on the way to the airport. The engine  needs an overhaul... or will by the time he gets there. The Porsche heads down the block with a GRINDING of GEARS. Lowrey winces and heads for the Volvo when Theresa gets in his way. THERESA Where you think you're going? I got a list here of things that Marcus was supposed -- LOWREY -- that Marcus was supposed to do. That's right. Marcus. Not Mike. 'Cuz Mike's a cop on a case with no time to waste. Lowrey's in the Volvo and pulling away as fast as he can.
He's dealing with his 26-year-old chemist named ELLIOT. FOUCHET Okay. Explain it to me, Elliot. Why are we behind? ELLIOT The cutting agent is highly volatile. You can't cook it like you would a pizza. I had to gear the ovens down to half-speed. FOUCHET We already accounted for that, Elliot. It's in our fucking timetable. So what else?
There's too much moisture down here. The pies are taking longer to cook than we originally planned. WALLY Yeah.   It's totally fucked. FOUCHET You.  Shut up.  Now, listen, you little pussy. We're not making pizza.  
BURNETT Shut up before I step on you... Julie? He drops his bags and heads into bedroom where...
Julie! JULIE That you, Mike? BURNETT Yeah.    It's me. Mike. JULIE At least your timing's good. Can you bring me the lotion on the nightstand? Burnett enters.    Julie has a towel wrapped around her body. 
The guy who killed Max. Now, he was looking for the heroin that Eddie stole from him... Max went to the party as a favor to you. You're a dope cop, right? BURNETT Special Narcotics Division. JULIE So this isn't about Max's death at all. It's about dope. BURNETT We find the dope, we find our shooter, too. JULIE There's some powder in there, too. Can you hand that to me? (waits for an answer) Mike? Mike? Burnett has disappeared into... TIME CUT TO:
EMPTY_LINE
Mug shots. We got mug shots to look at. 'Scuse me, I gotta hook into the P.D. computer. He heads out of the bedroom. JULIE Hey, Mike. Who's the guy in all the pictures? Burnett turns. And there behind Julie is a wall full of photos that he's never, ever noticed. Nearly all of Lowrey. All ego. BURNETT That guy? Well, that's Marcus Burnett, my partner. Burnett gets closer and must look around until he finds the singular photo of the two of them. It's in a shitty frame, too. BURNETT There's the two of us, see?     Me'n'...  ... My partner. JULIE Listen, Mike. I've known a lotta guys. And I've seen a good number of their bedrooms, okay? But I've never seen... I mean, look at it. It's like a shrine to him. 
It's a good thing that I'm secure in my manhood to see that you don't mean that. You know how many women I've had in that waterbed? Check the waves as they go by. Count 'em. (turns back to living room) Now, mug shots?
Just a few more and we can take another break. JULIE I don't wanna take a break. Then we'd have to talk and I got nothing to say to a cannibal. BURNETT A what? JULIE That was a living, breathing consciousness. It felt joy. Sadness. Maybe it even had a name. BURNETT What had a name.
That flesh you're shoveling into your mouth. BURNETT  It's just bologna. JULIE It was alive. Some farmer  fed it. Got it to trust him. Then  blew its brains out, dumped it in a cement mixer with a ton of carcinogens and now you're   eating it. 
Wait. Hold it. Go back... That's him! That's one of 'em. BURNETT You sure? Julie nods.    She's certain.
Captain Howard, please.    It's Lowrey.
Uncle Mike -- Lowrey looks down to find little Megan pulling at his leg. She shows a picture book. MEGAN But I have to go now!
Your dog took a shit. JULIE And you used Pledge to clean it up? BURNETT  Lemon Pledge. JULIE Well, that makes a big difference. You just varnished that into the fabric. I'm sure it works great. Burnett doesn't quite know what    to do with the wad of dog poop in paper towels still    in his hand. Julie snatches it from him and heads    for the bathroom. Burnett follows. He suddenly realizes     that the clean clothes are his. 
 I had a little accident. BURNETT This is my favorite shirt.   My lucky shirt. JULIE Sorry. As Burnett starts to walk away... JULIE Listen, Mike. I don't have any of my clothes. I wanna go back to my place to get some. BURNETT Not going to happen.
I need apparel. That and I need some food that's something more than a cold, slab of fear. BURNETT Slab of fear? JULIE All you got in the place are frozen steaks. BURNETT Alright. I left my wallet at the office so I'll give you some cash tomorrow.
LOWREY ... so your daddy and I are trapped in this crack house in Little Havana. These dudes were real mean mothers... and they start coming at us with knives... Now I'm scared, thinkin' I'm out for the count when in comes your daddy like a Miami hurricane --
Standing in the doorway.   Hands on her hips. LOWREY Oh, hi, Theresa. Just tellin' the kids about -- THERESA Thank you, but I'll tuck the kids in. Say good night to Uncle Mike. QUINCY But we want to hear the rest of the story... Theresa silences Quincy with a look.   Sensing his cue, Lowrey kisses the kids.
G'night, gang. QUINCY AND JILL G'night, Uncle Mike.
If you were my husband, I'd poison that. LOWREY If you were my wife I'd drink it. THERESA Twelve years I'm married, Michael. And I never let Marcus bring his work home.
Just a harmless bedtime story. Thought the kids deserved to know about the hero they have for a dad. THERESA We don't need any violence in this household and we certainly don't need any more heroes. What we need is a father and a husband. LOWREY Husband? Theresa. He's your personal errand boy. You beep the poor S.O.B. every hour on the Goddamn hour? And why is it always about some useless bullshit that can wait until later. I mean, the guy's gotta job to do. THERESA You wanna know why I page him? Because until that phone rings, I don't know whether he's dead or alive. And lemme tell you. Those three minutes I'm waiting for him to call back? Those are the hardest three minutes for a cop's wife. LOWREY  Touche, Theresa. 
SANCHEZ Ooh, mean machine, Lowrey...
You should recognize trunk. It's the one you came to America in. RUIZ You don't come from Cuba by car, asshole. Lowrey walks by his own cherished Porsche on the way in.
Marcus, this is crazy. We are five minutes away from picking up this asshole and returning to our lives. And we're here doin' this shit. Where the fuck is it? BURNETT Hey. Don't ask me to find it for you. You're the expert on my wife. 
You know, it is a damn shame she makes you buy this stuff. BURNETT Hey, this what husband's do. LOWREY Terrible fuckin' job.  It's like shaving cream. They're all the same. Fresh. Free. Confident. Secure.  Super wide? What the fuck? We're takin' this one. 
What do you think the chain's for? LOWREY I dunno. Maybe some kind of hurricane anchor. They knock again.    The chain jerks slightly. BURNETT Well, the anchor just moved. Both turn and look. And the chain is moving. At first, it simply sways back and forth, then it pulls taut and the FRIDGE JOLTS! A deep, GUTTURAL NOISE sounds. From around the corner, a shadow grows large. Lowrey and Burnett instinctively withdraw their guns and aim just as a LION rounds the corner, teeth bared, claws tearing at the deck. The door swings open. Burnett pushes Lowrey inside just as the big cat lunges.
EMPTY_LINE
 'Morning, Mr. Lowrey. 'Morning, Mr. Lowrey. Burnett grabs Lowrey and yanks him toward the elevators.
It's me, Julie... Julie enters from the bedroom, dressed in something hot with the tag still hanging from a sleeve. JULIE I'll be ready in just a minute. I thought I'd have you tell -- She stalls at the sight of Lowrey, a little spark of interest passes between them. JULIE Hi. I'm Julie. You must be Marcus.  I recognize you from all the photographs. Nice to meet you. (turns around for Burnett) What do you think? LOWREY Very nice.   The occasion? JULIE He said we were going to a club tonight. BURNETT Yes. We were going to a club.     As in me and my partner. 
What? LOWREY No. It's not my place. My wife. She's a designer. She decorated the whole place at a discount just for Mike. And when she hears about how he's been taking care of -- (glares witheringly at dogs) Off the couch! Lowrey chases the dogs into the bedroom. One of the dogs runs out with a Cole Hahn loafer in his mouth. They both follow him into the bedroom.
WOMAN Mike? The Woman strips off the overcoat -- under which she's breathtakingly naked, save for a garter belt and stockings. She drapes the coat over the nearest chair. WOMAN I'm feeling really nasty right now.
Who the hell are you? Burnett charges her, instantly ushering her to the door. BURNETT How did you get in here? Julie and Lowrey return from the bedroom. WOMAN I have a key.     But, Mike... BURNETT  Maybe you should call first next time. What's your name?
Yvette! BURNETT You don't quit stalking me, Yvette, I'm gonna place your ass under arrest! -- 'Bye! Burnett slams the door. She's SCREAMING on the other side, POUNDING the door with her fists, and cursing in mad Spanish. Finally she stomps off down the hall. LOWREY 'The hell's going on out here?? 
 So, Mike. Any other spontaneous naked women with keys, that we should know about? BURNETT We, as in Marcus and I, are going to Club Hell. We're gonna nail this Noah guy and get him to give up Max's shooter. Anyone got a problem with that? JULIE I feel safer now. She turns and exits back into the bedroom. Burnett's about to follow when Lowrey swings him outside the door- way and gets into his face. LOWREY You are ruining my life! BURNETT Yeah, well this case is messin' with mine, too.
My three little angels told me I'd get a visit from the cops tonight and there they are.  When they split up, we'll drop the tall one and get the other one to lead us to the girl.
Anything? BURNETT Bartender says he works here. But she hasn't seen him all night. (finishing his drink) I gotta make a pitstop.
Oh, man.     Budweiser... CASPER Excuse me? BURNETT Musta drank about a million Budweisers tonight, waitin' for my ol' friend Noah to show. Wouldn't know him, would ya? Guy practically raised me up from nothin'. CASPER Sorry.   Never heard of him. BURNETT Too bad. Burnett shrugs, zips and reaches to flush when -- 
What the hell are you doing here? JULIE The guy who killed Max.   I remember something he said! 
Three little angels! The guy who killed Max said 'three little -- Julie sees Noah and freezes. LOWREY The music's too loud.    What you say about angels? Noah closes the gap.    Through the crowd he draws down on Lowrey.
Forget the cop. Kill the girl!
Launches himself off a nearby table, soars over the frightened crowd and comes crashing down upon Noah. Both Lowrey and Noah tumble to the floor. Noah's gun skitters into the crowd. Noah chases for it, but can't find it. But --
Don't even think about it.  Julie? CUT TO:
as she grabs Lowrey. JULIE That's him! LOWREY No shit!
Lemme drive! BURNETT I'm driving.     Buckle up. Burnett hits the gas, the CAR SCREAMS around in a tight circle just as -- SLAM! -- Noah's sedan backs wildly across the road and crunches them. Noah throws a SHOTGUN over the back seat of his car and FIRES through the rear window. BLAM! Everybody ducks. Safety glass flies before Noah shifts gears and drives on.
You're gonna drive through that, aren't you? Burnett does, hauling through the light. Meanwhile, Lowrey has the bubble light in hand, reaches out the window to stick it on the roof, but it simply slides off. He reels it back in the car and hands it off to Julie. LOWREY Hold that.
C'mon, lemme drive -- BURNETT Do I backseat drive when you're tailing a hitman?
His wheels catch the island and the snaps, and rolls right into --
Just getting out of the car as the station blows.    They shield themselves against the explosion.
There goes our only lead to the dope. We better call Howard. JULIE That's it. That's it.   You're both crazy. Julie takes a few steps away before she decides to give them the other barrel. JULIE Protect and serve. Sound familiar? Isn't that what you're supposed to do? 'Cuz I'd like to know whose butt you're protecting. 
BURNETT Jesus.   What kinda shit was in there? LOWREY Smells like some kinda chemical. BURNETT We'll get a sample and drop it back at the lab. Meanwhile, why don't you two go on back to Club Hell and see what you can dig up on these bad guys.
One day, bro.    Gotta get yourself some of them. Lowrey hears SOBBING. He gently shuts the kids' door and heads down the hall to the:
Hey, hey.   That's not cryin' I hear. THERESA  Oh, it's nothing... I just bought some clothes. It's been so long since I bought anything nice... I just wanted something to wear for Marcus when he got home. But nothing looks right... (starts crying again) He's slipping away from me, Mike. I can feel it. LOWREY  Theresa. Listen to me. Nobody's slipping away from you. Especially not Marcus. You can take my word on that... As for the clothes... Lowrey pulls a random item out of a box.   It's hideous. LOWREY Okay. Just a minor fashion faux paux. Those cappuccinos at lunch can do that to you... See what else we got here.
I'm really sorry about the dog pee. They must be traumatized by the new surroundings. I'll pay for new cushions. 
Yeah... I feel a little funny. JULIE Not that kind of funny. BURNETT What kind of funny? JULIE You know...  Funny. BURNETT I gotta call Marcus. Burnett's out of bed like a shot and headed for the living room.
That's right.    Turn around. Theresa turns, looking transformed in the outfit put together by Lowery. THERESA You think he'll like it? I mean, I want him to, you know, want to...
Want to? Baby. Someone I know's gonna burn you right to the ground. Get ready!  You're on the mic with Mike... Hello?
G'night, Uncle Mike. THERESA Yeah.   Good night, Uncle Mike. LOWREY G'night, everybody. Lowrey's at the window. Parked just down the street is the same sedan. He goes for the phone and dials. Waits for an answer. LOWREY Hey, Sanchez. It's me Lowrey... Yeah? Same to you, pal. But listen. I got something you'll want a piece of.
I got some jewelry for you. Before Julie can respond, Burnett's cuffing her to the steering wheel. JULIE You prick! First you don't want me. Then you drag me out...  
There's our guy. Watch him.
Mike! In a heartbeat, Lowrey charges into Theresa's room in his underwear. LOWREY What's the matter? THERESA I heard a noise... I think someone's outside...
Go into the kids' room, turn the lights out and wait there until I come get you.
Tumbles into the flower bed. Lowrey reels with     an elbow, dropping Burnett to the lawn. But Burnett rolls     and clips Lowrey's legs. Lowrey falls. Crawls for      his gun. Gets hold of it, turns and is ready to fire when    --
drives past.   The headlights, revealing Burnett. LOWREY Marcus!   What the fuck -- BURNETT ... You doin' Theresa?    Theresa! LOWREY What?   Me and Theresa? BURNETT I hope you used protection... 'cause I don't want a fourth kid that looks like you! 
Wanna explain what this shit's about?
This whole deal has turned you stupid. You're seeing things that aren't there. 
Yeah, I wouldn't want to spoil your little arrangement! LOWREY And where's Julie? You didn't leave her again. BURNETT She's in the car. Got her cuffed to the steering wheel. Lowrey could kill now. He's on his feet, grabbing Burnett by the collar and shoving him up against the front door. LOWREY  Now, listen to me. Look over my right shoulder. What do you see ... I said look! BURNETT  Late model Ford. Two occupants. LOWREY Good. So who do you think's in there? Ed McMahon come to tell us we're sweepstakes winners? BURNETT Okay.   What are we doing about it? LOWREY We're doing nothing. I've got it handled. In the meantime, you better get back to where you belong before I shoot you myself. 
Sonofabitch!   There's the girl! But just as they start the car.    KUH-THUNK -- the CAR lurches. FERGUSON What the fuck?
Let's go! The tow truck hauls away Ferguson and Casper stuck in the sedan.
CHET 'Evening, Mr. Lowrey. May I have a word with you?  I was thinking that... maybe I could see your gun. See, we don't allow guns up in the apartments. Mr. Lowrey usually checks his, here, at the desk with me... You want me to check yours? Burnett pulls his gun. But doesn't hand it to Chet.        He sticks it in Chet's face. CHET Oh, okay.   It's just an option. Burnett grabs Julie's hand and heads for the elevators.
Where Ruiz and Sanchez wait with one of last night's Henchmen. His face is horribly bruised.
He says he wants his lawyer. RUIZ Yeah, but we told him we were desperate men without no fuckin' jobs, so...  So? HENCHMAN Okay. All I know is his name. Foo-shay, I think. Got this heavy French accent. The word was he offs drug dealers. And there was quick cash for whoever had the balls enough to hook up with him. I swear, man, watchin' your house was my first gig for the guy.
Yeah. I guess you're tellin' the truth. HOWARD I also got the lab report from the stuff you picked up in Noah's trunk. He hands it off. 
Or one really smart sonofabitch. HOWARD We're    in the shit, boys. And there    ain't gonna be any more time cards    for this unit unless somebody pulls    a miracle out of their ass.
I'm getting really tired of this shit! 207    OMITTED                                                   207
Hey, Jojo. Through the office window, Jojo sees Burnett and sud- denly bolts out the rear door and runs smack dab into Lowrey, who body checks him back up against the office door. LOWREY Good runnin' into you, Jojo.
Hey, calm down. A little rap, that's all. We're lookin' for someone who can step on a shitload of heroin. And do it real fast, and real well. We're lookin' for a pro. JOJO I'm in the rubber business now. BURNETT We're not playin' around with you, Jojo. You know what we want.
I'm tellin' you straight up, like a straight fuckin' arrow, okay? I'm straight as a board. I'm so straight it's fuckin' sick. BURNETT Now there's a lotta dope, Jojo. Who can cut it quick? JOJO You mean, cut it... cut it up, yeah. I don't know anything about anything. Lowrey's had it.   He pulls his gun and pushes in. 
We don't got time for            Mike. Chill with that. this. Jojo, I'm gonna            No. Don't do it! This kill you, man. I've got          is illegal! He's just fifteen bullets and I'm          a white ganja-smokin' gonna fill your rasta            motherfucker. He ain't ass fulla some hot               worth it. shit... (reaches behind his back) Wait. Wait. Burnett pushes in one last time and tries to talk Lowrey back. Lowrey acts like he lost it. He pulls another gun and points it at Burnett. LOWREY                           BURNETT Back up. I'm gonna bust          Right on. Jojo, you're your fuckin' ass too.            on your own.  Jojo)                        I'm sorry for you, Jojo. Talk to me. Tell me what         I was on your side. I'll I want to know. I'll do          just be over here. I you man, say it. Come on.        don't want no skull fragments or brain shit on me. When that shit flies, it don't wash off.
So where's the coffee and donuts? BURNETT What? JULIE I thought that was the usual menu when cops were on stakeout. A little caffeine for the heart. Some sugar-coated dough fried in day old grease. LOWREY Man. Will you get off this? You're making me sick. JULIE Oh, I'm sorry, Marcus. All     these hours on the case, you must    miss Theresa's home cooking.  Bet last night she fixed you    up something yummy and left it    in the microwave for you. Burnett starts to steam. LOWREY Yeah.   Somethin' yummy. JULIE I imagine there was something yummy waiting for you when you finally made it to bed -- BURNETT  Listen, lady -- But Burnett's face    ignites with headlights at their rear. Doors open.      Lowrey checks the rear-view mirror. He sees two private    security cops named DE SOUZA and TOWNE. They split     and approach either side of the unmarked sedan. LOWREY Oh, man.     It's the fuckin' pretend police. 
Excuse me. One moment.  Let's fuck with these bozos. Burnett nods his approval.   Lowrey lowers the window. LOWREY Now, where were we? TOWNE Outta the car. Hands where we can see 'em. Feet spread. Both hobby cops open the doors for Lowrey and Burnett respectively. Looks pass between them as they step out and assume the positions. And Towne starts by frisking Burnett's shoulders. BURNETT Oh, that's not how you frisk a potential lawbreaker. You gotta start at the waistband. See if he's carrying a piece. Towne stalls a beat, then self-consciously goes to Burnett's waistband where he feels a -- TOWNE Gun! Both hobby cops instantly withdraw, their own pieces drawn and leveled on Burnett and Lowrey. 
I bet you miss your wife, kids... I bet you miss them a whole lot. LOWREY I don't worry. They're in good hands.
SANCHEZ Are you kidding, man? Desi was the brains behind the whole operation. That's why they called their company Desilu. Desi was first. Lucy second. Get it? Desi-Lu?
BURNETT Two o'clock.     The red Civic.
Let's just hope he didn't come home for a nap. TIME CUT TO:
I'm on him.  Hey, buckle up back there. JULIE Wha...? Lowrey has the keys in the ignition and is stomping on the gas.
Elliot's out of the car in a flash and crawling aboard the ship. But as he disappears, Casper appears with his own pair of binoculars.
They've made us. Let's move. Lowrey FLOORS it.
Yeah. Tell Howard to assemble the troops. We just made the dope lab. We'll be at the P.D. in one hour. JULIE So what am I gonna do? LOWREY You're gonna keep your sweet ass nice and quiet back at my place.
What? LOWREY Mike's place.     I said Mike's. Lowrey rolls his eyes.    He can't wait for this to end.
Hey, it's Dad and Uncle Mike.
In our continuing report on police violence, the most recent incident involving two Miami P.D. officers remains unexplained by department spokesmen. This high-speed chase was captured two nights ago by our Live Copter 9 news team. And while the driver was killed, both police officers involved in the incident seemed to escape without injury. THERESA Kids, you go over to the neighbors' house. I'll be right back. 
Lady, all visitors must be announced. THERESA Announce this! In a motherly flash, she's got Chet by the ear and she's dragging him over to the elevator. He yowls the whole way until he sticks his master pass-card in the elevator lock. Theresa lets  go.
So, I guess when you get back, it's gonna be over. LOWREY That's the plan... So, Mike. Loan some of those ass kicking clothes. BURNETT Third drawer down.  Hey, Julie. Do me a favor and see who that is.
Which one do you want?     The tall one or the short one? THERESA Oh, I got plenty in me to kill 'em both. But it's the short one I'm gonna divorce. She pushes past. JULIE Thought so. Julie watches Theresa charge headlong into --
Man, I can't wait to see the look on Howard's face when we tell him...  Holy shit! Hi, Theresa... honey. THERESA Save your crap, Mike.
Mike what?     What'd he do? BURNETT Theresa.     It's not how it looks. THERESA It ain't Cleveland, neither. LOWREY Where's Julie? Lowrey pushes past Theresa into --
Julie. We wanted to tell you... I especially wanted to tell you -- JULIE You think I didn't know? God, you are so stupid! And to think I let you use me like you did, Max. Why? LOWREY Julie --
Wait. I know why. Because you said you needed me. Jesus, who's the stupid one now? LOWREY We still need you. He reaches for her. JULIE Fuck you! Julie slams a fist into Lowrey's face. The elevator doors shut. Then Burnett comes hauling down the corridor with Theresa at his heels. He pounds the elevator button. THERESA You stayed away from home just one night too many, Marcus. BURNETT Theresa. She's a material witness! It was orders!
enters, with Casper and Ferguson to either side. 
Julie!   Drop now! Pandemonium.
Pushes Theresa back into the elevator, making her lay on the floor as BULLETS CUT above.
Slips behind a pillar as BULLETS WHIZ past.
On floor.    In the middle.   Crawling for cover when --
With balls the size of Pennsylvania. Two GUNS in hand, walks forward with barrels fixed and FIRING. Clips out on one, tosses the gun aside, then, with his free hand, reaches down and grabs Julie by the hair and lifts her until she stands. FOUCHET Let's go! 
Swings around the pillar, gun leveled and running after them. LOWREY Julie!!!! Meanwhile --
BURNETT Go upstairs. And don't let anybody in but me... Do it! Burnett presses the close door button. The doors close just as Theresa reaches for him, calling -- THERESA Marcus, I love you.
EMPTY_LINE
Out of the car! The doors fly open and all three are out in the middle of the stalled traffic, Julie being drug along with them. The gang cuts down an alley.
enters. He dives to the floor as Casper stops and FIRES. BULLETS RIP through the salon walls and mirrors. Lowrey ends up under an old lady's dress.
He sees his chance and GUNS the ENGINE. The cab barrels at Burnett, who's stuck in the middle of the boulevard, about to become instant roadkill. Then --
It's about fuckin' time. BURNETT We lost the girl. HOWARD But you found the dope, right? So let's go get it back. A bicycle BELL RINGS. Heads turn. And here comes a BOY on his bike, serpentining his way through the maze of cars and cops until he gets to Lowrey, Burnett, and Howard. BOY Which one of you's Lowrey?   I got somethin' for him. LOWREY At least I'm me again.  I'm Lowrey. From his back pocket, the boy extracts a cellular flip PHONE. He hands it to Lowrey. He presses the power button and, almost instantly, it RINGS. LOWREY  Yeah.   This is Lowrey.
EMPTY_LINE
That bullet just killed the chemist. Now, I have but four hours left to make my deal. Fuck with my timetable and the next bullet kills the girl. Julie is gagged and sitting on the floor, scared shitless.
You twisted motherfucker...  Jojo, you sonofabitch. When I get my hands on you, I swear, I'm gonna kill you.  The snitch who tipped us to the dope lab? Turns out to be a bogus address. BURNETT Bogus address? HOWARD How's this? I'll kill the little prick for you. That's cuz you're already dead. (waves at the troops) Okay, you guys. Put 'em back in the lockers. 
How'd he know we were gearing up to go? It's like he's known all along where we're gonna be and when.
You know that once he sells the dope, he's gonna kill her just like he did Max. BURNETT Three little angels. Julie kept talking about his three little angels. A barkeeper appears with two beers.   Burnett automati- cally reaches for his wallet.
If she dies, I'm done with it. The whole cop thing.
 Three little angels.
FRANCINE It was a birthday party... You know, after hours. Just the civilian staff... We were drinking. And everybody. They all had boy friends or their husbands. LOWREY So you were alone? FRANCINE He was so nice to me. He said I was beautiful, too. I guess I wanted to believe him... (then ashamed, starting to shake) He took some horrible pictures of me. I don't remember any of it. I'd had too much to drink. I wondered if he'd drugged me. Later... he threatened to show them to my boys... my little angels. Said he'd pin the pictures up on the grade school bulletin boards for all their classmates to see if I didn't do what he wanted. BURNETT He wanted someone inside the P.D.? FRANCINE At first, it was about drug busts. Dealers under surveillance.  
Yes?
FRANCINE I have some more information for you, Mr. Fouchet.
Yes, Francine... What is it? FRANCINE Miami P.D.'s called in the D.E.A. task force. They know the deal's going down in just two hours. So they've deployed agents to every point of entry, airports, marinas, etc... FOUCHET Is that all?
Yes. FOUCHET I'm very pleased, Francine. You're the best pet I've ever had. He hangs up.
Got him! Ma Bell says as long as he keeps his cellular phone turned on, we can track him.
Call Howard. Tell him we're gonna need lotsa back-up.
They're turning north onto the Orange Highway. BURNETT We can make better time if we cut across the Biscayne Bridge.
As the convoy makes a right turn off the highway onto an old tar and gravel track.
The trucks roll toward an old airport which consists of a small, pilot's terminal and four or so hangars spread out over the ten acre site.
That's it. That's where they're making the deal. Burnett swivels the spotting scope.
Three hundred million and very, very fresh. Too much to count, eh?
As Casper pulls her from the rear of a truck and handcuffs her to the door of a cab. BUYER Who's the bimbo? FOUCHET Simply part of another transaction. 
Move it or lose it! Burnett and Lowrey climb from the dumpster and run. Casper and Ferguson have a clear shot. They level and aim, but... KUH-WHOOM! The FUEL TANK on the aircraft EXPLODES. The truck drivers dive for cover. Charging for the open hole in the wall.
Remember us? The two bad guys turn with their guns. The flames igniting their already battered faces. But they don't turn fast enough. Both cops FIRE in unison. Ferguson and Casper fall. PULL BACK --
Julie! JULIE Michael! Her VOICE ECHOES.
I was going to fuck her, then kill her. Now it looks like I'm only going to do the latter. LOWREY Either we O.D. on the air or the whole place blows. We're dying anyway. BURNETT Let her go and you'll walk. You can keep the dope and the money.  Just the girl and we all get out of here. FOUCHET What if I don't have the key. JULIE He threw it in the -- FOUCHET  Shut up! It's gone. She's dead. Unless you move aside. Burnett eases further right. Gun carefully aimed. His eyes are stinging. Lowrey goes left. But he's lowering his gun.
Pulls Julie closer. Gun at her head. Looking to Burnett. While Lowrey is nodding to Julie. Nodding for her to -- 
Sanchez and Ruiz... Then --
 Don't shoot!!! Hold your fire!!!
Twisting Julie for all to see.    The cops' rifle sights, all glinting in the sun. FOUCHET I'll kill the girl!!! 
HOWARD Swish. Then he turns to Sinclair, who stands only feet away. HOWARD Investigate that, asshole.
Ow.     This shit really hurts. LOWREY Stick around. I'll give you a bullet to bite. Finally --
BURNETT KIDS Daddy Daddy Daddy the hero!!! ... into the arms of their father.     He gathers them all into one big hug. BURNETT Daddy's home! Behind Burnett appear Lowrey and Julie, arm in arm. The kids run to...
Uncle Mike, Uncle Mike. Then... BURNETT Baby! Theresa framed in the front doorway, looking smashing in the outfit Lowrey picked out for her. Burnett ambles up the walk into her arms. They hug and kiss, Theresa tossing a wink Lowrey's way. LOWREY Manana, partner. Peace. Okay, kids. Pile in. And watch the leather and windows this time? JULIE You got a real way with kids, Lowrey.
You see anybody complaining? BURNETT Hey.    Where are the kids goin'? THERESA Didn't you know? We got us a new babysitter. She kisses him. BURNETT You mean... THERESA It's quality time, Marcus. 
MEGAN Uncle Mike.   I did it!
