My mother died of pneumonia when I was just a kid. My father had kept their wedding cake in the freezer for ten whole years. After the funeral he gave it to the yardman... He tried to act cheerful, but he could never be consoled by the little stranger he found in his house. Then, one day, hoping to begin a new life away from the scene of all his memories, he moved us from Texas to Ft. Dupree, South Dakota.
I'll give you a dollar to eat this collie.
I'm not going to eat him for a dollar... I don't think he's a collie, either. Some kind of dog.
Watch your heads.
Hey. Woody. Gimme a cigarette.
Woody wouldn't give me a cigarette.  Ever notice he don't talk much?
Little did I realize that what began in the alleys and back ways of this quiet town would end in the Badlands of Montana.
Nah. they wouldn't fit.
How do you know? You hadn't tried them on yet.
Nah.
Gimme a dollar for them... Cost twenty new.
Why don't you see if they fit you?
This lady don't ever pay her bills. She's gonna get in trouble if she doesn't watch out.
I throwed enough trash for today, Cato.... I'll see you In the morning.
Catch!
What do you mean?
Hi, I'm Kit. I'm not keeping you from anything important, am I?
No.
Well, I was just messing around over there, thought I'd come over and say hello to you. What's your name? I said mine.
Holly.
Listen, Holly. you want to take a walk with me?
What for?
Well. I got some stuff to say. Guess I'm kind of lucky that way. Most people don't have anything on their minds, do they?
Oh, incidentally, my last name is Carruthers. Sounds a little too much like druthers, doesn't it?
It's okay.
Well, nobody asked me what I thought. They just hung it on me.
You still in school?
Nah, I got me a job.
Doing what?
Well, I don't mind getting up early, so I got a job throwing garbage... I'm not in love with the stuff, okay.
That's my father. I got to run.
Hey. wait a minute. When am I going to see you again?
Well, I know what my daddy's going to say.
What?
Can I be honest?
Sure.
Well, that I shouldn't be seen with anybody that collects garbage.
He'll say that?
Yeah.
Now what's he know about garbage, huh?
Nothing.
There you go.
Well, I mean there's nothing he wants to know about it... I've got to run.
Who was that?
Just some boy.
Is that going to kill the grass?
You got some on my feet.
What'd he want?
Just wanted to know if we needed any yardwork done... I said no, and for him not to bother us.
You ever held another job before?
I used to throw trash for the City.
You lost that one?
Wouldn't be here if I hadn't.
What kind of work do you think you would be qualified for?
I can't think of anything at the moment... I'd like you to write me out a slip, though, proving I came down here.
Well, I think we could find you something... working cattle over at the pens.
Well. what the hell. Just hope there's a breeze.
He was handsomer than anybody I'd ever met. He looked just like James Dean.
Hi.
Well, stop the world.
Quit my job.
Great.
Just seemed like the right move... Whatcha doing?
Spanish.
How do you say "Quit my Job" in Spanish?
Something mi trabajo.
Yeah, well, I'm going to work as a cowboy now... Or thinking about it. It's a routine, like anything. What do you think?
I don't know.
Well, at least nobody could get on me about wearing these boots any more.
You want to go for a ride?
Well, I got homework.
Bring it along.
Somebody dropped a bag on the sidewalk.
Everybody did that, the whole town'd be a mess ... Hi.
You're a redhead.
I know.
Anybody ever call you "Red"?
Yeah, but I don't like it.
Why not?
Just don't... I've got a headache.
Yeah?
Can I come around and see you tomorrow?
Okay.
Kit went to work in the feedlot while I carried on with my studies. Little by little we fell in love... As I'd never been popular in school and didn't have a lot of personality, I was surprised that he took such a liking to me, especially when he could've had any other girl in town if he'd given it half a try.
He said that I was grand, though, that he wasn't interested in me for sex and that coming from him this was a compliment. Held never met a fifteen-year-old girl who behaved more like a grownup and wasn't giggly. He didn't care what anybody else thought. I looked good to him, and whatever I did was okay, and if I didn't have a lot to say, well, that was okay, too.
What a nice place.
Yeah, the tree makes it nice.
And the flowers... Let's not pick them. They're so nice.
It's your play.
Of course I had to keep all this a secret from my dad. He would've had a fit, since Kit was ten years older than me and came from the wrong side of the tracks, so called. Our time with each other was limited and each lived for the precious hours when he or she could be with the other away from all the cares of the world.
My stomach's growling.
There's an old Fudgesicle over there. You want it?
No.
Somebody else is going to get it.
I don't care.
Kids eat that kind of stuff in Korea.
In the stench and slime of the feedlot, he'd remember how I looked the night before, how I ran my hand through his hair and traced the outline of his lips with my fingertip. He wanted to die with me, and I dreamed of being lost forever in his arms.
The whole time, the only thing I did wrong was throwing out my fish when he got sick. Later I got a new one, but this incident kept on bothering me and I turned to Kit.
I didn't mind telling Kit about stuff like this, cause strange things happened in his life, too, and some of the stuff he did was strange.
For instance,. he faked his signature whenever he used it, to keep other people from forging important papers with his name...
And as he lay in bed, in the middle of the night, he always heard a noise like somebody was holding a seashell against his ear. And sometimes he'd see me coming toward him in beautiful white robes, and I'd put my cold hand on his forehead.
Did it go the way it 'uz supposed to?
Yeah.
Is that all there is to it?
Yeah.
Gosh, what was everybody talking about?
Don't ask me.
Well. I'm glad it's over... For a while I was afraid I might die before it happened... Had a wreck, some deal like that.
You see where that tree fell in the water?
Yeah... The river must've washed the roots away... You don't care about anything I say, though.
You know what I think?
What?
That we should crunch our hands with this stone. That way we'd never forget what happened today.
But it would hurt.
Well, that's the point, stupid.
Don't call me stupid.
Okay, but I'm going to keep it for a souvenir...
Or maybe one that's lighter.
Kit made a solemn vow that he would always stand beside me and let nothing come between us. He wrote this out in writing, put the paper in a box with some of our little tokens and things, then sent it off in a balloon he'd found while on the garbage route.  His heart was filled with longing as he watched it drift off. Something must've told him that we'd never live these days of happiness again, that they were gone forever.
Then, sure enough, Dad found out I'd been running around behind his back. He was madder than I'd ever seen him. As punishment for deceiving him, he went and shot my dog.
He made me take extra music lessons every day after school and wait there till he came to pick me up. He said that if the piano didn't keep me off the streets. maybe the clarinet would.
Sure is pretty.
What'd you come out here for?
I wasn't aware there was any law against it.
You know Holly... well. she means a lot to me, sir.
You know, before I met her, nobody could ask me how I was doing with my girl. Matter of fact, I didn't really have one.
Is that right?
Yeah.
It okay me leaning on your Willys here?
Listen. I got a lot of respect for her, sir.  That's about as good a one as I know to tell you.
Well, it's not good enough.  Just what do you think would happen to her if she stuck around with you, Kit? Guy like you.
She'd get along okay. And if she didn't, well, she could take off, just take off,  I wouldn't mind... I'd always tell people I deserved it.
You get out of here. I don't want you hanging around any more. You understand?
You're something.
Takes all kinds, sir.
Hi.
What're you doing?
I've got a gun here, sir. It's always a good idea to have one around.
What do you think you're doing? Go on, get out of here.
Well, I got it all planned... and I'm taking Holly off with me.
Okay, boy, I'm turning you over to the authorities.
What for?
For coming onto my property... With a gun.
No, you're not either.
Yeah? Why not?
Cause I can't allow it.
Hey... Hey, wait a minute.
Suppose I shot you. How'd that be? Huh?
You want to hear what it sounds like?
Hey, where you going?
Daddy... This is Holly... Are you going to be okay?
I came in the front.
How bad off is he?
I can look and see.
We better call the doctor... Listen. I'll say how it happened, part I saw.
Well... I don't think that'd work.
He don't need a doctor.
Are you sure?
You don't believe me, see for yourself.
I found a toaster.
Listen, honey. I don't want to...
Listen, maybe we ought to tell somebody about this.
You said that once already... Too late now.
Why?
They're not going to listen to me. You either. Are you kidding?
Suppose the neighbors heard the noise?
Wouldn't be funny... Listen, I'll be back in a while.
Oh... You want to call the police, that's fine. Just won't be so hot for me.
My girl Holly and I have decided to kill ourselves, same way I did her dad. Big decision huh? Well, the reasons are obvious, and I don't have time to go into them right now... One thing, though... He was provoking me when I popped him. That's what it was like, a POP.
Course nobody's coming out of this thing happy, especially not us. You can't deny we've had fun, though. Which is more than I can say for some.... Mmmm. that's the end of the message. I run out of things to say... Thank you.
Kit left a record playing over and over for the District Attorney to find. He was gambling for time.
Kit made me get my books from school, so I wouldn't fall behind. We'd be starting a new life, he said. and we'd have to change our names. His would be James. Mine would be Priscilla. We'd hide out like spies, somewhere in the North, where people didn't ask a lot of questions.
I could of snuck out the back or hid in the boiler room, I suppose, but I sensed that my destiny now lay with Kit, for better or for worse, and that it was better to spend a week with one who loved me for what I was than years of loneliness.
How you doing?
I'm fine. Kind of tired.
Yeah, me too.
We hid out In the wilderness,down by a river in a grove of cottonwoods. It being the flood season we built our house in the trees, with tamarisk walls and willows laid side by side to make a floor. There wasn't a plant in the forest that didn't come in handy.
We planned a huge network of tunnels under the forest floor, and our first order of business every morning was to decide on a new password for the day. ow and then weld sneak out at night and steal a chicken or a bunch of corn or some melons from a melon patch... Mostly. though, we just lay on our backs and stared at the clouds and sometimes it was like being in a big marble hall. the way we talked in low voices and heard the tiniest sound.
They hadn't found but one set of bones in the ashes of the house. so we knew they'd be looking for us. Kit made sure we'd be prepared.
He gave me lectures on how a gun works, how to take it apart and put it back together again. in case 1 had to carry on without him. He said that if the Devil came at me, I could shoot him with a gun.
One day, I carried thirty pounds of wood a distance of five miles. Another day, while hiding in the forest, I covered my eyes with makeup, to see how they'd come out.
We had our bad moments, like any couple. Kit accused me of only being along for the ride,while at times I wished he'd fall in the river and drown, so I could watch.
Take a break. Red... Life of Riley, huh?
Mostly. though. we got along fine and stayed in love.
One of the chickens died last night.
I almost stepped on him.
"The Kon-Tiki in motion was a little different from what it usually was in such conditions. We had become sensitive to changes in the rhythm of the logs. I thought at once of suction from the coast, which was drawing near, and was continually out on the deck and up the mast..."
He was nervous.
"Time passed. At dawn, just before six, Torstein came hurrying down from the masthead. He could see a whole line of small palm- clad islands far ahead..."
I grew to love the forest. The cooing of the doves and the hum of dragonflies in the air made it always seem lonesome and like everybody's dead and gone...
When the leaves rustled overhead, it was like the spirits were whispering about all the little things that bothered 'em.
One day, while taking a look at some vistas in Dad's stereopticon, it hit me that I was just this little girl, born in Texas, whose father was a sign painter and who had only just so many years to live ...
For days afterward I lived in dread. At times I wished I could fall asleep and be taken off to some magical land, but this never happened.
Holly!
Get in the car, Red.
We don't need this.
We went to hide out with a friend of Kit's from the days of the garbage route.
How you doing, Cato?
Not bad.
Take that sombitch.
What you been doing?
Running this place for a fella in town. Nothing much to speak of.
Well, I don't notice us hustling trash, either.
Where'd you get them antlers?
They come with the house.
Oh, Cato, I want you to meet my girl, Holly Sargis.
Did you hear the one about the guy in the nuthouse that went around naked, with only a hat and gloves on, and this nurse came up to him and said, "Hey, what... You can't walk around that way," and the guy says, "What's the matter? Nobody comes around here." Anyway, the nurse says, "What do you have the hat and gloves on for, then?" And the guy says, "Well, you never know."
Isn't that funny?
Yeah, I guess.
She plays the clarinet, too.
Don't you ever get bored around here?
Sometimes. The other day, though, an old boy was plowing in the field over there, found some old Spanish coins.
 That's what he told you, huh?
No, he showed me one.
What'd they look like?
Kind of round, like so... Gold. I'll show you if you want.
Let me finish my supper.
We're thinking of going down to Texas. Holly wants to visit some of her people down there, but after that I don't know... They say Mexico's nice.
Kit... Maybe I'd better get a shovel.
Okay.
I'll catch up with you.
Okay.
I found a lid. It was laying on the ground over there.
Put that down. It's dirty.
Hey, you're throwing big ones!
Cato!
The shovel's in the truck.
Kit never let on why he'd shot Cato. He said that just talking about it could bring us bad luck and that right now we needed all the luck we could get.
You never told me about her.
Look at all this junk.
How's he doing?
 I got him in the stomach.
Is he upset?
He didn't say anything to me about it.
Bunch of junk.
He stole that cage. I saw him doing it.
Whatcha looking in there for? We can't afford any of that.
Just looking.
Why don't you go in there and keep him company for a while?
Hi.
That your spider in there? in that bottle?
Yeah.
What do you feed him?
Oh, flies... grasshoppers when I can catch 'em.
Does he bite?
He never bit me.
Hi. where's Cato?
Well, he's gone.
Gone? ... Where?
He said not to tell.
Oh yeah?
Yeah, he said for you to give us a lift into town. You're the ones with the Studebaker, aren't you?
Well, I just need to pick up something in the house.
No... You go in there, I'll have to kill you.
What's going on?
Can't afford to take chances.
Come on out of there, young lady.
Let's us step out in this field here.
Nah, skip that... I'm going to have to keep an eye on you, though.
Okay.
You don't mind?
Hi.
What's going to happen to Jack and me?
You have to ask Kit. He says frog, I jump.
Okay.
What's your friend's name?
Jack.
You love him?
I don't know.
I've got to stick by Kit... He feels trapped.
Yeah. I can imagine.
Well, I've felt that way, hadn't you?
Okay, you two, down in the cellar.
You promise to stay down there for an hour?
Yeah.
You expect me to believe that?
Yeah.
I'm going to shut the door.
Think I got 'em?
I don't know.
Well, I'm not going down there and look.
Suddenly, I was thrown into a state of shock...
Kit was the most trigger happy person I'd ever met. He claimed that as long as you're playing for keeps and the law is coming at you, it's considered okay to shoot all witnesses. You had to take the consequences, though, and not whine about it later.
We're in for it now... If they catch us.
What'd you put him in there for?
Just to keep him out of the sun.
At this moment I didn't feel shame or fear, but just kind of blah, like when you're sitting there and all the water's run out of the bathtub.
You tired?
Yeah.
Yeah, you look tired... Listen, honey. when all this is over, I'm going to sit down and buy you a big, thick steak.
I don't want a steak.
Well, we'll see about that... Hey, lookie.
They're probably going to blame that on me, too, bastards.
a deserted street, law officers posing with their guns and ammunition, children walking from class under armed guard, a detective in a trench coat pointing at a pump, a woman calling in her children at dusk, a county official posing with the county records, the court reporter with a book of signatures, vigilantes signing up and being deputized, then riding through the streets of their town in the backs of pickups, a priest among them, etc.
The whole country was out looking for us, for who knew where Kit would strike next? Sidewalks were deserted. Stores closed their doors and drew their blinds. Posses and vigilante committees were set up from Texas to North Dakota. Children rode back and forth to school under heavy guard. A famous detective was brought in from Boston. He could find no clues ... My clarinet teacher said I probably wasn't responsible, but others said I was. Then, on Thursday, the Governor of Oklahoma sent out the National Guard to stand watch at the Federal Reserve Bank in Tulsa when word got out that Kit meant to rob it... It was like the Russians had invaded.
We needed supplies, so we went to a rich man's house. Kit figured it'd be safer and quicker than shopping in the downtown... A maid came to the door.
Hi, I come to check the meter. My tools are in here.
Oh, this Is Holly. She's from Texas.
Later we found out she was deaf and we hadn't even known it.
Excuse me.
Hi.
Yes?
This your place?
Yes.
Sorry to barge in on you. Anybody else here besides you two?
No.
Good deal... Oh, uh, we're on the run and we'd like to hang out here for a while. Couple of hours, maybe. How'd that be?
Stay as long as you like.
Next time I ring that, it means time to clear out.
I left Kit in the parlor and went for a stroll outside the house. The day was quiet and serene, but I didn't notice, for I was deep in thought, and not even thinking about how to slip off.
The world was like a faraway planet to which I could never return... I thought what a fine place it was, full of things for people to look into and enjoy.
Listen to your parents and teachers. They got a line on most things, so don't treat them like enemies. There's always a chance you could learn something.  Try to keep an open mind. Try to understand the viewpoint of others. Consider the minority opinion, but try to get along with the majority opinion once it's accepted.  Course Holly and I've had fun, even if it has been rushed, and... so far we're doing fine. hadn't got caught.  Excuse the grammar.
Hi... Kit's downstairs playing with the dictaphone... Sometimes he acts like there's something wrong with his bean.
Hope nothing ever goes wrong with mine.
Think he's crazy, huh?
I don't know... He's kind of odd.
They claim I've got him wrapped around my little finger, but I never told him to shoot anybody.
Gosh, I like your house.
Thank you.
Hi.
Hi... ah, Mister Scarborough here?
Yeah, but the thing about him, he's down with the flu. He's sick.
Really?
Yeah. I'd invite you inside, except it's contagious. Don't want to start an epidemic.
No, of course not. It's only that he called last night and asked if I could come by.
Well, he didn't have it last night.
What's that?
Well, I'd like to leave a message, if that's okay.
Sure.
You have to excuse me now. I have to go back inside. Bye.
We're out of here, Tex.
Hi, whatcha doing?
Just thinking.
Good a way to kill time as any... She okay?
Yes.
Listen, ah ... We're going to take the Cadillac for a while. How'd that be?
Fine.
Don't worry, I won't let her drive.
Oh, and here's a list of everything we borrowed. Car's on there, too.
Okay, ma'am, let's go . . . come on.
You're my friend, aren't you?
Yes.
Okay, no monkey business then.
Groceries.
That guy could sell that list I gave him as a sample of my handwriting.
Hey, why're you always walking ahead of me?
Well, why you always walking behind me?
Don't.
Anybody ever done that to you before?
No.
Positive?
Yes.
Guess there's no way I'll ever know. For sure.
That guy must pay through the nose to keep this place up... Lawn, the gas and electric... Bagworms. Plus the upkeep on the cars... Yeah, you get a little money in your pocket, you think all your problems are solved. Well, let me tell you, they're not.
I'd like to get out of here.
Soon as I start the car... and fix my hat.
Fearing there'd be roadblocks on the highways, we took off across that area known as the Great Plains. Kit told me to enjoy the scenery, and I did.
"Rumor Pat Boone is seriously considering giving up his career so he can return to school full-time and complete his education. Fact Pat has told intimates that so long as things are going well for his career, it's the education that will have to take the back seat."
I don't blame him.
"Rumor Frank Sinatra and Rita Hayworth are in love... Fact True, but not with each other."
Through desert and mesa, across the endless miles of open range, we made our headlong way, steering by the telephone lines toward the mountains of Montana.
Once we had to eat a bunch of salt grass. It tasted like cabbage.
For gas we used the leakage from the valves of the pipelines we found along the way. Drip gas is what they call it in that part of the country.
Little by little we approached the border. Kit was glad to leave South Dakota behind and cursed its name. He said that if the Communists ever dropped the atomic bomb, he wished they'd put it right in the middle of Rapid City.
That's Montana over there.
I never been to Montana... Acquaintance of mine has, but I hadn't... Never had any reason to.
State bird's a meadowlark.
We lived in utter loneliness, neither here nor there. Kit said that solitude was a better word, cause it meant more exactly what I wanted to say. Whatever the expression, I told him we couldn't go on living this way.
Why not? I mean, I'm having fun... At least I'm not bitching.
Well, I feel kind of like an animal living out here. I mean, there's no place to bathe and... no place to get anything good to eat.
Well, I'll catch you a big trout. Soon as we get to the mountains.
Everybody loves trout.
I'm serious.
In the distance I saw a train making its way silently across the plain, like the caravan in "The Adventures of Marco Polo." It was our first taste of civilization in days, and I asked Kit if we could have a closer look.
Before we left he shot a football that he considered excess baggage.
Afterwards he took and buried some of our things in a bucket. He said that nobody else would know where we'd put them, and that we'd come back someday, maybe, and they'd still be sitting here, just the same, but we'd be different. And if we never got back, well, somebody might dig them up a thousand years from now and wouldn't they wonder!
Maybe we should've tried to hop it.
It was going too fast.
I could've pulled the car up on the tracks, slowed it down some.
Yeah, then we'd be stuck here.
Well, maybe we oughta be stuck here. I'm not saying that I know.
You're crazy.
Kit took the bottle and spun it around, leaving to fate which direction we should take.
Well, maybe the slope here is throwing it off some. We ought to find a more flat place.
How about over here?
Never mind. It doesn't matter... If I'm worth a damn, I'll pick the right direction. And if I'm not, well, I don't care. See what I mean?
No.
Well, I shouldn't expect miracles, should I?
We'll keep on heading for that mountain... Just remember I said it wasn't such a hot idea.
We took off at sunset, on a line toward the mountains of Saskatchewan, for Kit a magical land beyond the reach of the law. He needed me now more than ever, but something had come between us. I'd stopped even paying attention to him. Instead, I sat in the car and read a map and spelled out entire sentences with my tongue on the roof of my mouth, where nobody could read them.
That night we moved closer to the border, and clear across the prairie, at the very edge of the horizon...
W could make out the gas fires of the refinery at Missoula, while to the south...
... we could see the lights of Cheyenne, a city bigger and grander than I'd ever seen.
I could get a job with the Mounties. The Northwest Mounties ... Hell, I got all the qualifications. I can ride, shoot and... I don't mind the cold. Fact. I kind of like the cold.
What?
Nothing... I was just running off at the mouth... as usual.
I'm sorry. I wasn't listening.
I was just talking about going after a job... Hey. don't lip it.
You know... they'd probably ask to see your driver's license before they hired you.
Well. I'm not going to let that stop me.
You smoke Pall Mall?
Yeah.
Nah, you hadn't seen me when I'm going after something, honey. Tough?
Hey. don't touch that... Nat King Cole.
Boy, if I could sing a song like that... I mean, if I could sing a song about the way I feel right now, it'd be a hit.
Kit knew the end was coming. He wondered if he'd hear the doctor pronounce him dead, or if he'd be able to read what the papers would say about him,the next day, from the other side. He dreaded the iea of being shot down alone, he said, without a girl to scream out his name.
Then, for an instant, the sight of the mountains in the dawn light got his hopes back up.
God, what a sight... Tell me this, honey. What does a little Texas girl like yourself think of a sight like that?
Love this air.
Morning... Say, you got any gas?
Maybe.
Well. I'm sorry. sir. but we've got to ask you for it.
See, we're about out... been driving all night. Actually, I don't even have time to explain it to you.
Well, matter of fact, I don't have any.
Just a second now. That's your truck. isn't it?
You didn't walk out here.
It's mine all right.
Well, listen. I'm going to swap you my Cadillac.
Now don't worry. You're getting a fair deal. Hell. what's the blue book value on this thing, Mildred?
Who are you?
Name is Carruthers. Believe I shoot people every now and then. Not that I deserve a medal.
Kit!
Okay, friend. start running.
Just gimme a chance.
Git.
Boy. I had a feeling today was going to be the day... Helicopter.
Yeah.
He's not coming to take us for a ride. either. Come on, let's make a run for the car.
I don't want to.
Have you got a better idea?
I just don't want to go.
What?
What is wrong with you, huh?
What is the matter with you, huh!?
Boy, I don't know what to make of you. People like you.
You want a second chance, then listen. Twelve noon the Grand Coulee Dam, New Year'ss Day. 1964. You meet me there... Now you got that?
Hey, anybody here?
Hi... Say,, you got any shells for a Savage, a .300 Savage?
Nope.
Damn. I pissed all mine away shooting up bottles... You want to fill her up for me? Please?
If you want any of that junk, it's yours.
Often I've wondered what was going through Kit's head before they got him and why he didn't make a run for it while he still had the chance. Did he figure theyld just catch up with him the next day? Was it despair? He claimed to having a flat tire, but the way he carried on about it, I suspect this is false.
Hi.
Hold it right there.
I could've held off an army if I could've gotten behind a rock in the mountains.
Oh yeah?
Long as my ammo held out... Right there's where you caught me.
We did it, Ray.
You better not leave that Cadillac sitting out here.
Put your hands in back of your head.
Now put the other one on yourself.
Hell, he ain't no bigger than I am.
You're going to give me a cauliflower ear, Sheriff.
He should've thought about that before he got caught... Shouldn't he?
Hup!
Think I'll take the juice?
Beats me.
Say, what kind of rifle was that you were shooting at me?
Thirty aught six.
You ever had to open it up like that before?
Nope.
Well, you boys have performed like a couple of heroes... And don't think I'm not going to pass it around when we get to town.
You tossed my hat out the window.
Wanta sue me?
No.
Kit... Kit, I've got a question for you.
Mmmmm.
You like people?
They're okay.
Then why'd you do it?
I don't know. Always wanted to be a criminal, I guess. Just not this big a one... Takes all kinds though.
You know who that sombitch looks like?  You know, don't you?
No.
I'll kiss your ass if he don't look like James Dean.
How you doing there, Kit?
Fine as can be expected. Just locked up, can't move.
That's a nice little coat you got on there.
You think?... it's leather.
Hey, now here's a real prize. I must've had this about ten years. Who's going to get it?
Gimme that sombitch.
There you go.
Where you from?
South Dakota. Where you from?
Here.
Want a comb?
Joni James is from South Dakota.
Yeah, she got out of there, too.
You ever been to Kansas?
Hey, Kit. whot's your favorite singer?
Eddie Fisher. Who's yours?
Eddie Fisher.
Damn! Want a pen?
How old are you?
Don't you read the papers?
You ever been married?
No sir, I hadn't.
Hey, Kit, you afraid of death?
I hadn't thought about it much.
Hey, listen, Tom, I don't mean to tell you how to run your show here but these cuffs are pinching. What do you say now?
I need to get your signature on some papers here, Kit.
Well, I've got to read them first. Suppose I could get a Coke while I do?
Sure thing. Come on.
You boys keep out of trouble.
Don't worry about us.
Holly's over here, Kit. if you want to see her.
Sure.
You want to give me a little slack here?
Don't worry now.. I'm going to get you off these charges... There's a whole lot of other boys out there. You're going to have a lot of fun.
Boy, we rang the bells, didn't we?
I'll say one thing, though... That guy with the deaf maid? He's just lucky he's not dead, too.
Course it's too bad about your dad.
Yeah.
We're going to have to sit down, and talk about that sometime.
Thank you very much, Chief Sims. Sorry if I caused you any inconvenience.
You didn't cause me any trouble.
Thanks anyway.
Well, Kit...
Tom...
Good luck to you.
Thanks.
I mean it.
I know you do. Good luck to you, too.
Now we go.
Come on, Red.
Kit and I were taken back to South Dakota. They kept him in solitary, so he didn't have a chance to get acquainted with the other inmates, though he was sure they'd like him, especially the murderers. Myself, I got off with probation and a lot of nasty looks. Later I married the son of the lawyer who defended me. Kit went to sleep in the courtroom while his confession was being read, and he was sentenced to die in the electric chair. On a warm spring night, six months later, after donating his body to science, he did.
Sir... Where'd you get that hat?
State.
Boy, I'd like to buy me one of those.
You're quite an individual, Kit.
Think they'll take that into consideration?
