No mistake, John.
They can take the Good Conduct Medal and shove it up their...
I appreciate it, John. You know that. But, I been to too many funerals. Had to visit too many moms and dads, tell 'em about what happened to their sons...
I did my twenty. I'm done. Roy takes this in, nods. He stands, holds his hand out.
Wanna bet?
I don't see it...
I'm telling you, it's in the trees.
From the 1st Platoon, 2nd battalion, 5th Marines .. Camo uniforms, NIGHT VISION GOGGLES on, stare into the DARK. CPL. CORREGGIO, 20, linebacker-big, shakes his head, frustrated.
Screw it. I'm gonna launch another one... The other marines back away quickly as... WIDEN to see we're...
Sweet. PVT. IMLAY, 19, a dense but good-natured country boy, moves to the tee.
Don't encourage him. Correggio's freakin' ego's big enough already. He takes the club from Correggio.
Let an expert show you how it's done, bro. Imlay TEES OFF, his swing plainly choppy, uncoordinated.
Mother fu...
Foot mobiles. 3 O'clock.
Told you they'd come! THREE GIRLS, 19-21, signal with a FLASHLIGHT. Then race down a small hill onto the golf course.
That dog'll hunt! Damn, Daktari, you can play!
Well, how would I know? I mean, it's an American game.
Actually, Imlay, it's Scottish. PVT. KERNS, 19, an antsy fireplug of a guy, shakes his head.
Lenihan, you as good with an M-16 as you are with your mouth?
Kerns. Lay off him.
What? Just wanna make sure the rookie won't fold under fire. Correggio shoves a beer into Kerns' hand.
Relax, dude. He throws an arm around Kerns' shoulder, smiles at the girls.
My buddy's jumpy 'cause he got an assfull a' shrapnel our last tour.
I'm jumpy? You're crawling up your own ass 'cause we train with Sgt. Nantz tomorrow. Correggio eyes Kerns. This was the wrong thing to say. One girl, smiling seductively, steps to Correggio, takes the golf club.from him.
If this is the officer's course, what happens if they catch you out here? She readies to take a shot. Correggio snuggles up behind her, ostensibly teaching her how to swing.
We can handle it, baby. We're experts at night maneuvers. Nearby, the SECOND GIRL chats up Adukwu.
So you're from where again? Imlay pops a beer, interrupting.
Nigeria. Adukwu's our corpsman. Like a medic. Saved Kerns' ass.
Adukwu's a green card marine...  And Lenihan here-- He's just green. Mom signed so he could join at 17. I'm looking after him since he don't know his ass from a hot rock. Lenihan suddenly ducks behind the Tahoe, throwing up.
You're doing a good job.
Yeah. We always take the new meat out here to christen 'em... Lenihan shuffles back out from behind the Tahoe.
Hey, barfy. Grab your beer. toast. Everyone holds beers aloft. Lenihan joins in reluctantly.
To Lenihan. Who gets his first taste a' those hills tomorrow. He points off to the HILLY, DESOLATE TERRAIN near the course.
Good luck, rookie. The marines chuckle knowingly, about to drink... Then they hear the sound of TIRES skidding to a halt. They look toward the hillside, see the WHITE HELMETS'of MPs.
MPs! The marines grab the goggles and clubs, pile...
Experts, huh? Correggio grins sheepishly. She smiles. sweetly, taking his hand, writing her PHONE NUMBER on the back of it as...
.what appears to be an unprecedented meteor shower, falling off the Falkland Islands.
What are you doing up so early? She holds up the object in her hands-- It's Martinez'
Yeah, lot of things we gotta get used to. We see her VERY PREGNANT BELLY now as she smiles back, exits. As she does, Martinez turns back to the TELEVISION: 'METEORS' falling into a distant ocean.
This dazzling display is visible from Argentina to Southern Chile.
Call me later.
Heard Nantz put in his papers. He's out.
Good. Wish he done it years ago. Lenihan, struggling, breathing hard, looks up at this, STUMBLING as he does. Nantz, looking back at the chatter, sees... Imlay grab hold of Lenihan, helping him forward now.
Goddamn it, Imlay, you gonna wipe his ass for him, too? Every man carries his weight! Nantz drops back, runs alongside the struggling Lenihan.
Just quit, Lenihan. Do us all a favor. 'Cause the squad's only as strong as the weakest man.,.. Lenihan STUMBLES and FALLS IN THE DIRT.
And right now you're getting us all killed. You hear? On these words, NANTZ MEETS EYES WITH CORREGGIO, further back in the pack. Nantz looks away, sees... Imlay, suddenly at Lenihan's side, helping him up. Nantz shoves Imlay away, knocking him onto his ass.
You think you're helping him, Imlay!? You think you're making him stronger?! Nantz puts a boot into Imlay's chest, shoving him flat. Correggio stares at this, steaming.
Stay on the goddamn ground, Imlay! You've just been gut-shot.
I'm gonna save him, sir! Lenihan bends, strains, somehow heaves Imlay up. He begins STUMBLING UP THE HILL, carrying Imlay on his back.
Come on, goddamnit! It's a hot LZ! The chopper's gotta move! They're gonna leave you BOTH to die!!! Lenihan staggers, knees trembling, weaving back and forth. Then his foot comes down on a ROCK IN THE TRAIL. His ANKLE GIVES WAY. Lenihan falls, yells in pain, grabbing his ankle.
I can't.
Don't you ever tell me you can't! Correggio takes a step towards Nantz now. Kerns stops him.
He's injured, Sergeant.
He's not injured. He twisted his goddamn ankle. Nantz' looks over the men, sweaty, covered with grime.
We are marines. "Can't" is not the code we live by. "Can't" gets marines killed. Do things the right way, the marine way, maybe you get to come home... Maybe your buddy gets to come home. Correggio stares back sullenly on this.
Dying's easy, ladies. Everything else takes balls. Nantz spits on the ground.
Adukwu. Run a bag of saline into Lenihan and tape that ankle. We start back in ten minutes.
.meteors are falling off the coasts of California, Ireland, India, in the Bay of Bengal-- all less than ten miles from land...
Man, I thought Lenihan was gonna wash out today.
Hey, I remember carrying your fat ass up that hill hung over as shit. Newbie gets no sympathy from me.
For three hundred more, she said we could have sprays of lilies. I know it's a lot, but it'd be so beautiful. What d'you think, baby? Harris looks pained. But before he can speak up:
Well, I think it's a no-brainer. You're only getting married once! What, are you gonna worry about three hundred bucks? Cherise looks expectantly to Harris, who smiles back weakly.
Of course, baby. Whatever you want She kisses him, heads to the florist as Harris turns on
Dude, what are you doing?
Busting your balls.
I love cake.
Still not sleeping... And the nightmares?
No. I mean, sometimes. But it's no big deal.
You're not drinking, right, private? That's just a crutch...
Alcohol? No, sir. Definitely not. The psychiatrist stares at this. Then WRITES in the file.
So... What's my status? Am I cleared for combat? I feel good.
I don't know why they always have to give us shit. It's not fair.
Question is, why does everybody think life's supposed to be fair? Why do bad guys want to kill us? Why can't I have a nipple ring? Why is it the more power we get, the more we want? Nothing's fair, Simmons.
Hold. The squad stops, following Nantz' gaze to... An approaching dust cloud, being kicked up by... A HUMVEE and TWO FIVE-TON TRUCKS Speeding up the dirt road toward the marines. Everyone is silent as they watch the HUMVEE and TRUCKS pull up... This is not normal. 1st Sergeant Roy hops from the Humvee, shouting:
What's going on, John?
For what? Do I have a choice here? They arrive at the Humvee. Roy turns to Nantz.
Just don't lose my paperwork.
What d'you mean? He turns., stares at Nantz.
What are the odds? As the Humvee pulls to the COMMAND BUILDING, Nantz sees... LT. MARTINEZ hurrying to meet them.
It's probably just a drill, right?
They shifted Nantz into our unit. Something must be going on.
I heard Nantz kicked ass on his last tour. Went into a compound by himself, killed, like, ten insurgents...
That what you heard? You don't know shit, Lenihan. Correggio, pissed, grabs his pack, heads for the door.
Move your asses. They want us in the armory. And he's gone. Lenihan, confused, looks at Imlay.
What's his problem?
Nantz lost a lotta guys on that tour. Correggio's brother was one of 'em. Lenihan nods, somber, getting it.
.cluster of what appears to be meteors is tightly packed... hard for scientists to predict the size or quantity striking the oceans...
They calling us.in because of these meteors, Lieutenant?
I assume so... Maybe an evacuation. Whatever it is, it'll be good to get out in the field with the men. Nantz looks askance at this. Martinez catches it.
Look, Sergeant, let's be clear. I know your rep, know what you've done... But this is my unit. We're not gonna have a problem, are we?
No problem, sir. It's all yours.
We never got a chance to finish the new mix, man. We were gonna add some metal to it...
We'll have time later.
.National Guard troops have flown in to evacuate all surrounding beach areas...
These objects were completely undetected until they entered our atmosphere.
So... what are they, Captain?
We have no idea. But whatever they are, they're not hitting the water at terminal velocity. They're able to slow down before impact. Glances exchanged in the room now.
This is no meteor shower. Homeland Security has bumped the threat level to red. Marines, we are the first line of defense. All units gear up, be ready to move.
The REPORTER on the beach looks harried now as THICK SMOKE rolls in across the water. POLICE SIRENS wail in the b.g.
.some sort of smoke has appeared over the ocean now...
Hey, shut up. Shut up! Others quiet down now. All focus slowly shifting to...
The reporter on the beach is cupping her earpiece.
I'm being told a Coast Guard cutter just issued a Mayday... The TV SHOT PANS to the WATER... The DISTANT CUTTER lists to one side, SINKING below the waves as indistinct DARK SHAPES clamber onto it from the water.
Push forward, scrambling to the TVs.
What the hell are those things?!
The REPORTER ON THE BEACH staring out, clearly panicked.
It appears... the cutter has... She stops, seeing the SMOKE reach the WATER'S EDGE. A HUSH falls over the CROWD as SMOKE rolls across the beach.
As the REPORTER reacts to isolated SHOUTS echoing from the crowd on the beach. Some are pointing out to the ocean...
What is that...? In the water... The news cameraman PANS to the WATER as it begins to CHURN.
SCREAMS and panicked voices ring out from those ON THE BEACH now as INDISTINCT FIGURES appear from under the waves. PEOPLE RACE AWAY, plodding along the sand in hopeless flight as these FIGURES charge into the crowd... GUNSHOTS ring out, police shooting at the INDISTINCT FIGURES that appear, then disappear in the EVER-THICKENING SMOKE. MOVE IN ON NANTZ, staring at the TV as... The news cameraman RUNS away now, the PICTURE being transmitted growing shaky, indistinct, frenzied as... A DARK FIGURE appears, overruns the cameraman as... The NEWS CAMERA suddenly cuts to BLACK. In black, all we hear is SCREAMS echoing from the beach.
As you probably heard, Sgt. Nantz will be taking over for Sgt. Beck. We're lucky to have him aboard. The CH-46 helicopters TOUCHES DOWN now, its massive,, bay door opening for them. Martinez barks:
Let's move, men!, The platoon grabs gear, runs for the helicopter, climbing aboard. Nantz hurries them along, grabbing packs, throwing them on after the marines. Then he grabs Correggio's pack, about to throw the pack on... Correggio grabs it back from Nantz. Nantz turns, faces off with Correggio.
You got something to get off your chest, Corporal?
No. It's cool, Sergeant. You got a Silver Star and my brother came home in a box. I get it. Beat.
Get aboard, Corporal. Correggio jumps into the chopper.
What the hell you think those things are?
Gotta be extraterrestrial.
You mean, like, from space?!
No, Imlay. From Canada. Correggio looks down at his hand... Sees the GIRL'S PHONE NUMBER written on it. ACROSS THE DECK, Martinez huddles with Nantz, MAP in hand.
Santa Monica airport's our Forward Operating Base. We get some Cobras and F-18s in the air, we'll have plenty of support. Nantz nods. They're flying into the unknown and Martinez seems as nervous as the younger men. Kerns leans in to Nantz, desperately needing reassurance.
How many a' them you think there are, Sergeant? Nantz just stares out, stone-faced.
We'll know soon enough, private.
Lt. Martinez, sir. 1st Platoon of the 2/5.
Situation is as follows: Most of Santa Monica is cleared of civilians. We've got a defensive line at Lincoln Boulevard a mile from the ocean... He points out LINCOLN BOULEVARD on a MAP, the OCEAN close by.
At 9 p.m., everything from Lincoln to the ocean will be bombed. Martinez blanches.
We're... leveling it, Captain?
We've got an infestation of god- knows-what. It's an enemy ground force only, they have no aircraft. So our jets'll tear 'em a new asshole. We will rule the air.
But... there must be civilians stuck behind the line, sir.
That's affirm. We're getting distress calls, sending squads out. He points to the MAP, to streets running from Lincoln Blvd.
Your mission, Lieutenant, take your 1st squad, proceed west from Lincoln to a community center located here...  In a park on 10th and Bay Street. Police were using it as an evacuation point. They got overrun. Get there, any civilians you find, get 'em back here to the FOB for evacuation. You got three hours. Another CHOPPER is LANDING. Nantz yells over the sound:
What do we know about these things, Captain?
Not much. But police have shot 'em. They bleed. The captain, hurrying to the next chopper, yells back:
It's our job to kill 'em.
Let's go, marines! Clock's running. Focus on the mission. We're gonna get to that community center and get those people safe. A COBRA ATTACK HELICOPTER screams overhead, firing into the distance. Martinez turns to Nantz, shouting over the din:
Something to add, Sergeant?
 Kill anything that's not human.
What the hell is that?!
Keep it together. Watch your angles. The aftershocks fade. Ominous quiet again. The squad continues DOWN THE STREET.
Helluva way to get citizenship, eh, Daktari?
Shit, I'd rather be in Afghanistan.
Cherise and I were supposed to register at Bed, Bath & Beyond tonight...
Think you're gonna be busy, bro. Nantz points his rifle into a CRASHED PICKUP TRUCK. A BODY is slumped beneath the wheel. Simmons comes up behind Nantz. Peers into the truck: Sections of the BODY appear almost dissolved by a white phosphorous-like substance.
What is that shit, Sergeant?
 Something bad, private. Now get back with your team.
Whoa, whoa... Contact! Twelve o'clock! A SHAPE is moving to them through the smoke. The marines aim, about to fire just as the smoke clears... A DOG. Standing there, staring mournfully at them. Nervous chuckles now. Correggio sidles up to Kerns.
Relax, man. Kerns just shoots him a look. The squad moves on. As they approach a SIDE STREET that intersects 10th... The DOG WHINES. Correggio pets it, trying to comfort it...
What the hell...?
Something spooked that dog... Then Kerns sees the SMOKE SWIRLING DOWN THE SIDE STREET... As if something is racing through it. Kerns breaks formation, SPRINTS DOWN THE SIDE STREET, FIRING.
Contact! Contact! Discipline shatters as the squad follows Kerns...
Marines! Hold your position! Kerns stops, spinning, looking. for targets, breath ragged, eyes panicked. Correggio races up.
What'd you see?! Suddenly, the INDISTINCT FORM of an ALIEN CREATURE appears through the smoke, moving FAST down the side street. Kerns is ready, FIRING. The others react, FIRING as well. The ALIEN FORM is blasted, DROPPING into the smoke.
Hold your fire! Hold your fire! Everyone stops firing. Nantz gets in Kerns' face.
One enemy runs and you break discipline and chase it?!  Think, marines. Stay alive.
The sergeant is right. Stay on course. We have a mission...
How many rounds it take?
Enough. Correggio edges to Kerns, who's looking panicky.
You okay?
They're real, bro. I kept prayin' they wouldn't be...
Quiet. Nantz, unnerved himself, stares into the smoke...
What is it, sergeant?
That thing running down the street... That was to draw us in... Slowly, fading in, we hear what Nantz hears now... A RUMBLING SOUND BEHIND THEM. Building. Nantz spins to it.
They're coming. We took the bait, now they're cutting us off.
I can't see a goddamn thing! But the SOUND of their ADVANCE tells us there's many.
Light it up! The squad lets loose with a barrage of FIRE as...
Mottola, get on the radio. See if we can get some air support. Mottola starts working the radio, trying to remain calm as.'.. PROJECTILES EXPLODE in BRIGHT FLASHES around the marines.
Contact front! Contact front! Correggio, frustrated, peers through the smoke.
What are we shooting at?!
Lieutenant. Command says air power is totally committed. Enemy contact all over the area... Martinez stares back at this ominous news as... The MARINES FIRE back into the THICK SMOKE. But the enemy attack keeps INCREASING in ferocity. One PROJECTILE hits a wall above Lenihan. It EXPLODES, some kind of liquid splashing onto him. Lenihan grimaces.
Ahh, shit! It's burning! His HELMET is being eaten away by the liquid. Imlay is immediately at Lenihan's side, pulling the helmet off. Lenihan's skin is blistering, oozing.
Ugly as ever, bro. The squad hunkers down, trying to find any cover-available-- behind cars, trees. Martinez drops BEHIND A CAR, pulls out his MAP, checking it for escape routes.-
We can hold this position, Lieutenant!
We're gonna get pinned down!
Sir, these things seem to be operating tactically! Don't let them dictate your decisions...
It's an ambush. This is the kill zone! Nantz slings his COMBAT SHOTGUN forward.
On Nantz' order, the SQUAD OPENS FIRE just as... ALIEN FIRE EXPLODES from the THICK COVER of bushes and trees. Nantz leads the brutal counterattack, PUMPING and FIRING his combat SHOTGUN. Martinez is shouting orders, directing the men as...
Jesus! Oh my God!
Keep your shit together!
What the hell are those things?!
They're the goddamn enemy.
Yeah, and there's a million of 'em!
Where'd they come from?! Why'd they come here?!
Everyone... just calm down.
Calm down?! We keep shooting them... Why don't they die?!
Stow that shit, Private.  Watch the yard. Secure the back. We're not dyin' here today. The marines take up firing positions at windows and doors.
You okay? Kerns stares back, deer in the headlights. He nods. ADUKWU IS WRAPPING GRAYSTON'S ARM as Grayston fumbles for a CIGARETTE. Adukwu lights it for him.
I know. These things'll kill me. Adukwu smiles. Grayston stares at his arm, ironically:
Hell, now that just ain't fair. Nantz moves to Martinez, who is staring down at the wounded Grayston and Guerrero.
Sir, what are your orders? Martinez turns, stares at Nantz.
I led us right into that ambush.
Sir. Your orders. Beat. Martinez nods.
Let's figure out how we get out of here. We'll medevac the wounded from that park.
Radio the FOB. Get us a medevac at that park by the community center. As Mottola works the radio, he's startled to see Guerrero, who has been SLASHED across both eyes.
I can't see, Motorola. Mottola, horrified, steadies his voice.
You'll be okay. A slight beat. Then...
You're one shitty liar, bro.
Hey, where the hell is Lenihan?! Everyone stops, stares.
I'll go for Lenihan, sir.
All right. We'll package the wounded, then rally on 10th street.
We got your six, Sergeant. Anything you need.
What I need is for you to keep quiet. And stay close.
Right. Got it. Quiet.
Starting now, Private. As Nantz turns, Mottola slaps Imlay in the helmet.
Motorola? You copy? His RADIO buzzes back with Nantz' voice:
Lenihan. This is Sgt. Nantz...
Sergeant, Jesus, I had to turn the radio off..'. These things are everywhere!
I'm in a garage... I can see two palm trees right next to it. House is white with black shutters... Just as something BANGS against the garage.
Is the house a two-story? Lenihan stares, his eyes going wide, panicked.
Lenihan, is the house a...? Lenihan CLICKS the radio OFF. Then waits, very still, listening, M-16 held tightly. His breathing turns shallow-- from loss of blood and from fear. Lenihan sees the BRANCHES of a bush SWAYING outside the window, as if something just brushed past it.
Lenihan...? Lenihan...? Imlay taps Nantz on the shoulder, motions to his ears. He hears something... The marines freeze, Nantz clicking the radio off as... Nearby, they hear SOUNDS of aliens running... Somewhere...
As Lenihan continues backing away, peering through the drifting smoke at the garage, he's unaware that BEHIND him...
Oh my God... What the hell are these things?
They're butt ugly, that's what they are. Nantz grabs onto Lenihan, noticing his wound.
We're gonna get you to the medevac, Private.
Thank you, Sergeant. Thanks for coming for me.
But Lenihan...
Yes, Sergeant?
Ever get separated from your unit again, I'll find you and shoot you myself.
Yes, Sergeant. Imlay slings Lenihan's arm around his shoulder and they're instantly moving, RUNNING FROM THE YARD.
All right, let's get to the community center... They head off, Simmons still supporting Guerrero as THWACK! An alien projectile slams INTO SIMMONS' THROAT. Choking, he CRUMPLES to the ground. Guerrero stands, blind, helpless. Panic. The marines spin, searching for targets.
Move! Grab Simmons! Go, go! Stavrou hoists Simmons as the marines run off, FIRING to cover their retreat, as... The SILHOUETTES of DARK ALIEN FORMS are visible on distant rooftops, watching the rifle squad disappear down the street.
Then, out of the smoke, an IMAGE APPEARS... Something MOVING
The marines all shift, aim forward, about to blast away as... FOUR MARINES come into view, moving ghost-like. Nantz signals with his flashlight. The marines hurry over, silently falling behind the cars.
You guys are 2/5?
2nd squad, 3rd platoon...
Where's the rest of your unit?
This is it, Lieutenant. Everyone else is dead or missing. The news hits Martinez hard. He eyes Nantz.
We were on the street, like, ten minutes and they ambushed us. As soon as we radioed for help, it's like they were everywhere...
All right. Stay with us. And the squad moves out...
Load the wounded. Sgt. Nantz, Cpl. Harris-- let's find the civilians. Martinez, Nantz and Harris run to the community center as... The WOUNDED are hustled to the CHOPPER as it TOUCHES DOWN.
U.S. Marines! U.S. Marines! A clattering. The marines immediately move toward it, peering down the dark hall...
How many of you? A MAN, JOE RINCON, 45, jacket and tie, behind her.
There's five of us. Three kids. Nantz is immediately moving.
Where? Where are the kids? He pushes past the adults, sees TWO GIRLS AND A BOY, 8-10.
You called in with two wounded!
We got four!
Can't take four! We have no room!
Make goddamn room! A beat. The crewman relents in the face of Stavrou's impressive bulk, tries to make room. Imlay and Stavrou get Simmons and Grayston on. Mottola helps Guerrero in, squeezing his hand.
I'll work on that mix for you.
Thanks, dude. Think I'm gonna need it. Lenihan crawls onto the chopper's deck with Imlay's help.
Now! We're moving now! Imlay bumps fists with Lenihan, backs away as...
Wait! Stavrou, hold it! KIDS! Stavrou tries to hold the chopper, screaming at it as...
Goddamn flying saucers now...?!
All those guys on the chopper...
Why'd those bastards have to come down here and start this shit?!
That is not relevant, Imlay! They're here. They're trying to kill us. Kill them first! Martinez eyes Nantz on this. Then barks orders:
Secure the perimeter! Stavrou, give me an ammo check. Cpl. Correggio, take three men, set up an Observation Post on the roof.
You heard the lieutenant. Move! The dazed marines begin COVERING doors and hallways. We see in their FACES that it's a very different fight now. Nantz turns, can see the MEDEVAC ABLAZE out a window. His solemn stare hints at a growing desperation. Martinez steps up to him, looks out. Quietly:
They got air power, too... Knocked that medevac right out of the sky. So much for ruling the air. Nantz just keeps staring out.
Listen, Sergeant. These men are scared. A little compassion would go a long way... Nantz turns on Martinez now.
How's that gonna help them survive, Lieutenant?
Imlay, startled by this, looks uncomfortable at first. Then hugs the little girl back, smiling at the older.girl, ANY, 10, Kirsten's sister.
You're not gonna leave us, are you? A beat. Then Imlay smiles.
No way, sweetheart. The woman, Michele McDermott, is clearly rattled, struggling for composure, eyes constantly moving to the kids. Mr. Rincon, a calm, watchful air about him, stands with his son, HECTOR, the kid who Nantz had carried to the chopper.
My son and I came here... There were only three cops, spread pretty thin... Then those things attacked. Police couldn't stop them.
What happened to everyone?
I don't know. Most people ran. We hid in a side room, found Michele and the girls... Couldn't see what happened. Just heard... Screams.
I have my nieces for the week. My sister and her husband are in Hawaii for their anniversary... Is it safe there? I heard this is happening in other places... Martinez is at a loss for words.
What do they want from us? Why are they here?
I...don't know. Right now, our job is just to get you to safety, okay? Harris appears from the hallway.
Lieutenant, something you should see...
An ALIEN BODY. On the ground nearby. Ripped by bullets. They step to it cautiously, realizing... IT'S NOT QUITE DEAD! The alien MOVES, turning as if to stare back at them. Without a word, Nantz lifts his rifle, shoots it in the head.
Want some Nerds? Imlay holds his hand out. Hector shakes candy into it as... Nantz enters, calling to Adukwu:
Adukwu, bring your kit. Adukwu is immediately up, moving to Nantz.
We're gonna cut one of these things open. See if we can figure out what makes 'em tick. Michele overhears, offering:
Maybe I can help, sergeant. I'm a vet...
You're a veteran?
 No, a veterinarian.
Oh... Okay. Well, thanks, um... Nantz has forgotten her name. She smiles.
Michele.
Right. Michele.  Sorry. Mottola walks up.
Sergeant. Can't raise anybody on the radio. We're cut off. Off Nantz' look...
.fucking aliens. Kerns looks at Correggio, starts to chuckle at the absurdity of it all. Then Correggio laughs. It's infectious. It's desperate. Then the laughter slows. Stops.
You think those things get scared? They're probably just grunts like us. Probably dumped into battle, told to go fight... Kerns looks out... The constant thud and crack of warfare... A city crumbling. V
I thought I could handle it...
You are handling it. Thing I'm worried about is Nantz.
Sergeant saved our ass at that ambush... He knows what he's doing.
Yeah? Tell my brother that.
You sure you can do this?
I was more sure two minutes ago. She looks to Adukwu. They step to the body together as... Nantz approaches Martinez.
What's the plan, Lieutenant?
Mission is still to get the civilians to the Forward Operating Base. We've got a battalion there, all that firepower... I was thinking, I saw a bus couple of blocks back on 11th...
Maybe we should stay on foot. Martinez looks at Nantz. Then opens a MAP, pointing to 'Santa Monica Airport' on it.
The FOB is here, at the airport... That's miles to cover with those kids... And those bombs are gonna drop in a little more than an hour.  We've got to move fast.
We have no radio contact, nothing to let us know the best route to take... And a bus is a big target.
I made the call, Sergeant. It's my responsibility.
Harris, Stavrou, lieutenant needs recon on a.bus. It was abandoned two blocks south off 11th...
If it runs, get it back here.
Can you hotwire a bus?
 He's from Jersey, sergeant. A nod from Nantz on this.
Stavrou, Harris...
.you're clear down 11th Street. They exchange a quick glance.
Every day a holiday, buddy...
.every meal a feast. They slip outside, running off silently.
How's it going?
Well, Lieutenant, I'm a medic, Dr. McDermott's a vet... We weren't sure who was most qualified to cut this thing open. Martinez smiles.
Look. It's been surgically modified... He pulls tissue aside, revealing where the alien's 'gun' is attached to its arm.
Part of its arm has been amputated to fit this weapon.
Talk about commitment to cause. Adukwu examines a VENTED CAP just to the right of where the alien's 'heart' would be. Thick, fleshy veins run from it.
What is that thing?
He's from Nigeria, Lieutenant. Not a different solar system. Nantz looks over at Imlay.
Thank you, private. Adukwu twists the cap. It comes free, revealing... A GELATINOUS ORGAN. Slimy, viscous fluid seeping from it.. Everyone steps back, reacting to the putrid smell.
Whoa, that stinks! Everyone steps back except Michele, that is. Unfazed, she takes her scalpel, makes an INCISION across the organ.
I'm gonna puke. Swear to God, I'm gonna puke!
Whatever you do, do it quietly, Imlay.
Hey, Stavs...
Relax. First thing I wired was a school bus. Trying to impress this Betty. She had a huge rack...
Enemy scout. Move your ass. Stavrou doesn't look up. Just works diligently.
Don't rush genius.
Shit. You seeing what I'm seeing? Correggio pulls BINOCULARS... POV THROUGH BINOCULARS: A SIDE STREET, TREES overhanging it.
What the hell was that?! They exchange glances with the other marines across the roof. All four move quickly, converging on one side of the building, look down the side of it... An EXTERIOR DOOR leading into the center is BROKEN OPEN.
Looks like it's receiving a signal... Suddenly, the ORGAN CONVULSES rapidly. Expanding, contracting. Nantz sees the ALIEN'S GUN VIBRATING now, the whole arm TWITCHING, spreading through the alien's body like a seizure.
This thing's still alive! Nantz pulls his KA-BAR FIGHTING KNIFE, thrusting it DEEP INTO THE ORGAN, twisting viciously.
Not so hard to kill when you know where to aim. Mottola appears in the room, a sense of controlled panic.
Lieutenant. There's a breach.
No clue, Sergeant. An exterior door was broken open.
Lieutenant. Maybe we should gather the civilians in the gym.
Good idea, Sergeant.
Harris, hostiles advancing right at you. Approximately two hundred meters and closing...
Done! Stavrou hops into the driver's seat, tries to start the bus. It doesn't turn over. Harris and Stavrou exchange a quick glance. Stavrou drops below the wheel again...
We're in it together, Sergeant. Martinez slams a grenade into his launcher now.
C'mon, Mottola. Get that bus here! Mottola is on the radio, frantic:
Where the hell is that bus?!
Get this thing started.
Hey, why didn't I think a' that?
We're out of time! Martinez looks INTO THE GYM, sees the kids staring back.
Go! Get 'em out! Imlay swings the GYM DOOR OPEN, moving the civilians out.
We've got forty minutes 'til they level this area.
Where the hell are all our jets?
Why the hell'd the lieutenant wanna take a bus? We're sittin' ducks.
 The call's been made, private. You so eager to decide the fate of all these people? Imlay is stone silent.
Didn't think so. Then Nantz looks up, meeting eyes with Martinez as... A NOISE in the distance now. A low VIBRATION, building. Nantz moves to Martinez. They peer out of the front. LIGHTS fill the sky, heading east. As they approach... The VIBRATION gets louder and louder, shaking the bus now.
Everybody get down, weapons inside the bus. Make no noise. The men pull their guns in from the windows, crouching as low as possible, straining to see, hear... The vibrations grow louder, LOUDER! Suddenly... WHOOSH! An ALIEN AIRCRAFT rips overhead. Then another, and another, and another... All heading east. The image of their speed, their power, their other- worldliness is overwhelming, devastating. Nantz stares, relief flooding his face, as the armada flies on. Leaving them behind. Until... Suddenly, Mottola's RADIO BLARES!
It's coming back...! The children scream, marines agitated... all hear a low vibration, echoing off buildings, heading their way.
(staring at the radio,
Kill that radio! Mottola turns off the radio. The alien aircraft STOPS. Hovers a moment.
They're tracking our signals! All radios, cell phones-- keep everything off! Everyone stares silently, tensely. Then... A single BEAM OF LIGHT suddenly shines from the alien craft. Then the alien aircraft MOVES FORWARD again. Slowly. But still heading their way.
It's still coming... It's searching... Nantz grabs a PORTABLE RADIO. He looks around the bus, sees the little girl, Kirsten, ponytail in her hair. He leans down to her.
Hi. Could I have your, uh, hair thing? She stares, wide-eyed, at this fearsome, sweating marine.
My... pony holder? Nantz nods. She pulls the PONY TAIL HOLDER from her hair, hands it to Nantz. He smiles. Briefly. Heads to the front.
Anything happens, Lieutenant, get the SAWS up front and take off with these kids.
Sergeant...
Nantz flattens himself to the street as... The ALIEN AIRCRAFT, trailing smoke and flames, thunders out of control RIGHT OVER HIM... Then CRASHES into a building... BLOWING APART!
That was some real John Wayne shit, Sergeant. Nantz tries to shrug it away. But Martinez nails him.
Don't do it again. We work as a team, Sergeant. We clear? Beat. Nantz nods.
We're clear, Lieutenant. Nearby, Imlay whispers to Mottola:
Who's John Wayne? Martinez looks up from the map, turns to Stavrou.
Take the freeway, Corporal. Cuts half the distance off our drive.
Sir. We get on that freeway, we'll be exposed...
It doesn't seem like we're much safer out here. We've got two shitty options-- I'm choosing the one that gets us there fastest.  We don't want to be in this area when the bombs start to fall.
Jesus...
Take the next exit. Head south. We're two clicks from the FOB. The bus drives onto the shoulder, past the sea of abandoned cars, heading to the off-ramp. Nantz appears uneasy. They are exposed on this freeway and he doesn't like it. He MOVES TO THE BACK, peering out windows, checking angles. Michele looks up as he passes, sees a GASH on Nantz' head.
Your head, Sergeant. You're bleeding. Nantz touches his head, looks at the blood. He wipes it on his pants. Michele smiles at him softly.
Bet when you woke up this morning, you didn't think your day would end up like this.
That's a pretty safe bet.
Hostiles. Back up. Now, go! Stavrou guns the BUS BACKWARDS, knocking abandoned cars out of the way...
Guess you were right, Sergeant.
Incoming! Down! Down! Down! A projectile EXPLODES next to the bus! Sending CARS FLYING! SHRAPNEL TEARS A GIANT HOLE through the side of the bus. TWO 2nd SQUAD MARINES are instantly killed, blown clear out of the hole. Civilians screaming... Stavrou hits the gas, BACKING THE BUS UP the best he can. An ILLUMINATION heading toward them... BOOM! Another projectile DESTROYS AN OVERPASS behind the bus! Trapped. And ALIENS are STREAMING AT THEM in the distance. Stavrou works the shift, grinding gears, gunning the bus... BEHIND A CONCRETE DIVIDER close by the COLLAPSED OFF-RAMP. The off-ramp now dangles precariously: a 15-foot cliff-face of missile-scarred concrete and re-bar. Martinez looks over to Nantz, not sure what to do...
 Let's dismount, set up a perimeter, get the civilians down to the street.
Stavrou, get down that ramp, secure the street! Kerns, Adukwu, help get the civilians off the freeway. Stavrou starts off the bus for the broken off-ramp.
Harris, Imlay, give us overwatch up on the roof. The rest of you push out 20 meters, set up a perimeter.
And don't forget, aim chest, right! Imlay joins Harris, SMASHING THE SKYLIGHT out of the bus roof, CLIMBING OUT, taking position on the bus' roof. The rest of the marines EXIT THE BUS. Nantz grabs Adukwu.
Stay here with the civilians. As soon as Stavrou gives the sign, get them down to the street! Adukwu nods. Nantz starts off the bus.
 Are we gonna die? Nantz turns back to Hector. Manages a smile.
Course not, kid, we're the good guys. And Nantz is off the bus.
I got about three dozen hostiles, twelve o'clock. 300 meters now. Coming fast.
Prepare to repel. Fix bayonets! This might get up-close and personal! Just a low CLATTERING now, the battle-rattle of Nantz and his men fixing BAYONETS to their rifles. Nantz-yells out:
Cpl. Harris!
Sir!
Being vastly outnumbered provides a marine rifleman with what?
A target rich environment, sir!
Marines. We stand here. Let these bastards know who they're fucking with.
Sporadic FIRE now, as the marines fire on the advancing aliens, still at a distance.
Okay, it's clear. We're gonna go. Amy and Kirsten, terrified, look up at Michele. She hurries the girls to the door of the bus as Kern runs up.
It's okay. I'll be right behind you. Adukwu picks up Amy. Kerns picks up Kirsten.
 It's gonna be scary but we can do it, okay? An alien round flies through the bus, shattering the back window! The girls scream. Kerns and Adukwu race away, running with the girls... Rincon grabs Hector. He and Michele follow...
Come on!! Come on!! Get some! Rincon and Michele, breathing ragged, feet pounding, look up... They're getting closer and closer to the off-ramp as... Alien rounds blow chunks of concrete off the roadway... UP AHEAD, Kerns and Adukwu rush the girls to the EDGE OF THE RAMP, hurrying to get them down as... Rincon and Michele REACH THE OFF-RAMP now. Kerns grabs Hector, HELPING HIM ANGLE DOWN THE OFF-RAMP, getting the boy safely handed down to awaiting Stavrou as...
It's okay, son. I got you.
What do I need to know? The slightest beat, then...
It's set to fire in three round bursts. We're low, so don't waste your shots. Rincon holds the M-16 against his shoulder, aiming.
Just sight down the barrel...?
And give 'em hell. Rincon sights down the barrel of his rifle at ONE ALIEN in the distance. He squeezes the trigger...
Keep fighting! Rincon snaps back, turns to fire... A moment too late as... THUMP! Rincon is HIT. He falls. Adukwu grabs Rincon, sees the pain and fear in the civilian's eyes. Adukwu rips open packages of QuickClot, begins spreading the fast-clotting powder on Rincon's wounds as...,
Shit, Lieutenant, we're gonna be overrun !
Gimme two of your smoke cannisters! Martinez pops two canisters off, hands them to Nantz.
Take someone to cover you!. Nantz turns, sees Correggio. Then he turns the other way, sees Kerns.
Kerns! Come on!
Me, Sergeant?
I'm not worried about fightin' next to you, Kerns. Now let's go. A slight smile from Kerns on this as he follows Nantz... Who sprints low, scurrying between cars... 10... 20... 30 yards closer to the enemy. Nantz and Kerns arrive at a large SUV. Kerns ducks low, covering Nantz. Nantz crouches, opens the gas tank... Unscrews the fuse from the smoke grenade body, tossing the canister aside... pulls the pin... flips the 'spoon' off...
Get ready to move on my word. Nantz holds the fuse over the open gas cap.
Now! Nantz drops the fuse into the gas tank. They go RUNNING BACK TOWARD THE BUS as... B0000M! The SUV EXPLODES in a ball of flames! Nantz and Kerns dive BEHIND ANOTHER VEHICLE, Kerns crouching, laying cover fire. Nantz pulls a fuse.
Again! Ready?!
 Ready! Nantz drops the fuse, they run... The CAR EXPLODES in flames! Nantz runs to ANOTHER CAR, making sure Kerns is with him.
Damn, Sergeant sure as shit's ninja. He just gave us a kill zone, didn't he, Corporal?
Soon as they come through, blow 'em back to hell! The first alien appears THROUGH THE BURNING CORRIDOR. Imlay blows it away! Harris blows away the next... It's working!;.
Pull the men back... Pull 'em all back now, Sergeant. I'm gonna stay and cover.
Lieutenant. We gotta get you outta here. No way we're leavin' you...
I said I got it...
I'm not leaving you here to die.
That's not your call, Sergeant. Now get your men outta here... He pushes Nantz away, looks around, the chaos slowing down for him. He reaches into his vest... Martinez hands the LETTER we saw earlier to Nantz. A moment between them. Nantz nods, then spins, moving, yelling to the men.
We're pulling back. Head to the lower street, now! NOW! Nantz runs toward the edge of the destroyed off-ramp, laying cover as the men head down. Harris and Imlay slide down off the roof of the bus, joining the others running to the off-ramp. Correggio sees... MARTINEZ STAYING BEHIND, shooting at the aliens, drawing their fire.
Keep movin', corporal! Go! All the men climb DOWN THE OFF-RAMP. Nantz turns to go back to get the Lieutenant himself, sees... Martinez hauling himself toward the rear of the bus.
Package Mr. Rincon for transport. We've got to move...
Sergeant. Did you just leave Lt. Martinez back there?
Lt. Martinez stayed behind. He knew he was dying...
So you left him? Is that how it is with you?
He sacrificed himself to save our asses.  Now you get your head straight, Corporal. This is my unit now. Nantz looks at the men, who stare back, shaken.
Let's move. We need shelter... Those bombs are gonna drop!
Tighten this place down. See if we can establish communications. Hard line only! Nothing wireless.
Listen, we're out of the bomb zone... But when they fall, we will definitely be rocked. Make sure the kids are prepared for that. Hector suddenly breaks free, rushing forward.as Imlay and Adukwu enter with Rincon, setting him down. Nantz pulls blankets from a nearby rack, covering Rincon. As he does, we see a glimpse of Rincon's BLOOD-SOAKED CLOTHING. He is very pale. Blood flecks his lips. Hector stares into his father's face, eyes filling. Rincon touches Hector's face lightly.
It'll be okay. We'll get your dad fixed up. But when Hector looks to Nantz on this, he can't meet the boy's gaze. Hector can see this isn't the truth.
Listen to me, son. I'm not going to make it.  But you will.
I don't want to go without you.
I know. But you have to. Now wait with Michele a minute. Let me talk to the sergeant. Reluctantly, Hector allows Michele to lead him away.
Mr. Rincon, we can take you and... Rincon turns to Nantz, steel-eyed.
Don't waste time, sergeant. You and I both know what's going on here.
I can't leave you...
No. You can't take me. Nantz is silent, at a loss.
Four minutes and those bombs drop, Sergeant. NANTZ looks over at this. But his expression is blank. He turns back to Rincon, who's staring straight into him.
I keep playing it over in my head... If I'd done things differently... Maybe I could have gotten Hector out earlier.
You can't look back. You make the best decision you can... A beat.
Just promise you'll get my son out of here, Sergeant. Nantz looks like he has the weight of the world on him.
I promise. Rincon holds out his hand. Nantz takes it, meeting his gaze.
I'm trusting you with the only thing I have in this world. Nantz stares, nods.
Sergeant! Hard wire connection!
Damn, that's Cherise... Harris quickly types back a response: 'you ok?' The message comes back: no, real scared.' Harris responds: 'where are you?' He hits SEND. But the message doesn't go through. He clicks the mouse. But the computer has frozen. Then 'Internet Connection Lost' pops up on screen. Everyone stares. Harris stands, walks from the computer. Stavrou watches him go as...
I'm very proud of you, son. You're being so brave... Hector throws his arms around his father, hugging him tightly.
I love you, Hector. Mr. Rincon smiles. His face peaceful. Hector is silent, tears rolling down his face.
Thirty seconds!
Get away from the windows! Get those kids behind cover! The marines back away from the windows into the center of the store, hunkering down with the civilians. Everyone stares at the CLOCK on the wall as it ticks...
C'mon. Fry those bastards...
Those bombs drop, then everything's gonna change. Get to the FOB, get some goddamn ammo...
Some goddamn food...
Some goddamn tanks. Beat. Everyone stares as... The CLOCK ticks to NINE...
They shoulda' dropped, right? We'd feel it from here, wouldn't we?
That much ordinance? They'd feel it in Nevada. Something's wrong...
Maybe it's good... Maybe we turned the tide...
Yeah, right, Imlay... 'Cause we were kickin' ass out there.
What's happening, Sergeant? What's that mean?
I don't know.
Sergeant... Mr. Rincon is dead. Nantz turns, staring off at Hector, sitting by his father. It's all too much...
Jesus... Nantz takes a deep breath, his mind racing, the world closing in on him. He turns to Michele.
Listen, our Forward Operating Base is about a mile away. We have to go on foot. I'll need your help with Hector now. Michele nods. Watches as Nantz slowly walks to Hector. Nantz kneels by the boy.
I'm sorry Hector. Your dad... didn't make it. You understand? Hector, sobbing, overwhelmed by grief and fear, looks up at Nantz.
I don't wanna be here. I want my dad back. I want it all to go back to the way it was before...
Sergeant, we got hostiles in front. All the marines stiffen, the clatter of rifles being raised. But Nantz, tearing up himself, just stays focused on Hector.
Me too, Hector. I wish it could go back, too...
Out of time, sergeant.
Tries to lead Hector away. Hector struggles.
MORE ALIENS leap in. They move in formation THROUGH THE STORE as... THE BACK DOOR silently shuts.
Stavrou, Harris.
Yes, Sergeant.
Blow something up.
Yes, Sergeant. As the others RACE AWAY down the alley... Stavrou takes his rifle butt, SMASHES the WINDOW of a nearby CAR. Reaches in... Jams the car's gear into.neutral. As the massive Stavrou pushes the car AGAINST THE STORE'S
Harris pulls his KA-BAR FIGHTING KNIFE. Harris.slides UNDER THE CAR... Punctures the GAS TANK. As Harris rolls away from the FLOW OF GASOLINE... Stavrou LIGHTS it. Both men RUN DOWN THE ALLEY.
Don't think they'll be comin' out that way... As... BOOM! The car, blocking the door, goes up in FLAMES.
Check it out. The two marines run down the alley to the SIDE STREET. Nantz sets Hector down. Looks the boy in the face.
This is the hardest thing you'll ever have to do... Michele, arms around Kirsten and Amy, watches Nantz.
But we'll get through it together. I promise, Hector. Hector nods, still crying. Nantz exchanges a glance with Michele, who moves to Hector, comforting him. Nantz steps away as Kerns and Correggio run up, reporting:
Looks good, both directions. Out of earshot of the civilians, Nantz spins to his men with fiery intensity.
We are not losing one more of these civilians. Period. Am I making myself clear?
You okay, bro?
I hadn't a pushed Cherise to get married, she'd still be in Chicago. Suddenly, Nantz stops, fist raised. The squad halts as... A SOUND fades in, a deep RUMBLING. The marines FALL BEHIND CARS now, pulling the civilians down with them as the RUMBLING continues to BUILD.
Under the cars! Now! The marines frantically shed their packs, squirming UNDER THE CARS with the civilians, pulling the kids under as...
How far, sergeant?
One block over. Imlay smiles at Kerns.
We'.re gonna make it! Dude, we're gonna make it... But as they approach a CORNER... Nantz stops, exchanges a glance with his corporals.
What's the matter?
The smell. An ominous beat. The squad moves down the dark street as... ASH FLOATS DOWN here from the sky... Like a beautiful early winter snow...
Jesus... They wiped our Forward Operating Base right off the map.
Now we know why those bombs never dropped. They took our jets out.
This was a dug-in marine Corps position that had armor, air and ground. Maybe we got nothing left to fight with... Michele MEETS EYES WITH NANTZ. His look tells us everything--
Let's get under cover. Now.
Lock this place down. The marines fan out, securing doors, checking windows as... Nantz kneels by Hector, tries to comfort him.
You're a brave kid. When this is over, you're going to be a hero.
People always say that. "He's a hero."
Your dad was a hero. Hector just stares back.
He saved Pvt. Adukwu up on that freeway. Hector exchanges a glance with Adukwu. Something passes between them... One man died so another could live...
You save a marine under fire, you get a medal, y'know. Nantz pulls out a MEDALLION, the CREST of the 2/5 on it.
This is our medallion. It's yours. For your dad.
What's that mean, "retreat hell?"
During World War I, an officer from our regiment was ordered to retreat. He said, "Retreat? Hell, we just got here!" Nantz is happy to see a slow smile from Hector now. Harris calls out:
We're secure, sergeant.
Listen up. We need ammo. Kerns, Adukwu stay with the civilians. The rest of us, let's move. Nantz puts a hand on Hector's shoulder.
I'll be right back.
Sorry, bro. He moves on to another fallen marine, searching.
Sorry, bro. Across the runway, Nantz pulls ammo from the pouch of a dead marine. Then looking up, he sees...
Looks like it just rolled off the goddamn assembly line!
Good job, Sergeant!
Hell, if it's got an engine, sergeant, I can drive it.
Good. Get it running.
Seems like vehicles are targets...
A minivan's a target, Correggio. A LAV with a Bushmaster chaingun... That's an asset. Imlay grins. Nantz motions to him, starting off.
Come on.
High ground. We need to see the big picture.
My dad's a fireman. They love their ice cream. Used to visit the firehouse with my little brother, they always had tons of it...  My brother's not much older than these guys.
You don't look much older, either. She gazes at the kids, pain and anger washing over her.
Is this day ever going to end?
Maybe the Sergeant'll find a way outta here.
Emmanuel. Manny.
Pete. You married? Family?
I'm single. Lots of family back in Nebraska, though... Hopefully they're safe... She shakes the thought away.
What about you guys?
Little Rock.
Nigeria. I came here to be a doctor.
You should be a surgeon, the way you cut into that thing... Adukwu smiles. Then his smile fades as he looks around.
Yeah. Maybe...
Look how far east they've gotten. That's almost the whole city... Nantz looks out through BINOCULARS: Sees the HOLLYWOOD SIGN ablaze in the hills... Then pans to a mid-city area. Stops when he sees one quadrant of the city, blocks wide, SHIMMERING an INKY BLACK. Some kind of DARK ENERGY WAVE emanating from the ground.
What the hell's that? Imlay peers out.
There's zero activity there. And the area does seem completely devoid of activity-- No alien or human aircraft above it. Like a DEAD ZONE.
What are we gonna do, Sergeant? Nantz, panning with the binoculars, sees a CHOPPER TAKING OFF in the distance now. Nantz grabs a MAP on the desk, eyes roaming over it. Then looks back to where he saw the chopper.
That must be the alternate extraction site. Maybe we can evacuate the civilians there... He turns to Imlay.
Get them in the LAV. I'll radio for an evac helicopter... When I do, they'll be coming, so we have to move fast.
Think we can make it, Sergeant?
We're gonna give it one helluva try, Imlay. He reassures the young marine with each-word:
We're not dying here.
Use the thermal sight. No lights. Stavrou drives, spins away as Nantz climbs...
Extract site's only a couple more miles, Imlay. Imlay nods back. Nantz peers down to...
We gotta go around. The LAV backs up, Nantz scanning the sky, gripping the M-240 machine gun, trying to see out into the darkness... Then they TURN A CORNER... And a VIEW BETWEEN TWO TALL BUILDINGS is harrowing... FOUR ALIEN DRONE AIRCRAFT hovering... Then turning. Flying toward them.
Get ready, Imlay. Here they come. Stavrou looks out to see... A HELICOPTER in the distance.
Think I see our ride, sergeant!
Get us there. Cause we're about to get lit up. The alien drone ships are winging at them. They are only 200 meters out when...
See what that Bushmaster can do, Imlay! Imlay OPENS UP on the 25MM BUSHMASTER CHAIN GUN.
Come on, you martian bastards! The Bushmaster is a rapid-firing CANNON spewing 200 rounds a minute, each capable of destroying a light tank. For once, the aliens are overmatched. The ALIEN SHIPS take HEAVY FIRE from the Bushmaster... One goes down IN FLAMES, the others PEEL OFF, flying behind buildings.
Where'd they go? Where'd they go? Nantz is scanning the sky, then...
Imlay, on your six! Imlay spins in the turret, picking up... The three remaining ALIEN AIRCRAFT coming back around. The lead alien ship FIRES! A ,CAR EXPLODES next to the LAV. Imlay rocks in the turret.
Son of a... Imlay targets, fires the Bushmaster... The lead alien ship is HIT, winging out of control INTO A SECOND SHIP. The TWO SHIPS EXPLODE into a building as... The FINAL ALIEN AIRCRAFT dodges the FIREBALL, flying straight at the LAV...
Getting close, Imlay...
I got it. Imlay FIRES a burst. The last aircraft is hit...
Stand on it, Stavrou! Stavrou pushes it, TRYING TO OUTRUN the burning wreckage... Which is almost on top of the LAV as... Stavrou spins AROUND A CORNER, escaping. The wreckage explodes into a building behind them as... THUMP - THUMP - THUMP! The sound of a UH-1'Medevac ECHOES.
The chopper! Nantz looks out, sees the CHOPPER LANDING in the street. The LAV screeches up amid the RUBBLE and SMOKE.
Last stop!
Everybody out! The marines rush the civilians OUT OF THE LAV... Nantz and Imlay scrambling out last.
Pretty decent shooting, Imlay.
You are in the middle of the shit, Sergeant! Everything's been pulled back.
What are you talking about?!
We've lost most of our air assets. We're abandoning Los Angeles. This city's done...!  Let's go! The chopper powers up, Nantz SCRAMBLES ON with the others.
What the hell happened?!
Something there was playing hell with our power! Nantz stares at this. Then notices Hector watching. him. He sees the 2/5 MEDALLION clutched tightly in Hector's hand. Sees the words "Retreat Hell." Nantz looks back at the MYSTERIOUS BLACK PATCH of cityscape. Then he turns to the crew chief.
Set us back down!
What?! The other marines in Nantz' unit look over, alarmed now.
We need to recon that area!
We can't land! May not have power to take off again... Nantz looks out. Spies a BUILDING with a FLAT OPEN ROOF. He points to it.
Then we'll rope down!
What the hell, sergeant? What's going on?
There's something over there... We could be the only ones left here to figure out what it is.  Let's go, marines. The marines look frightened, confused. They start to pull themselves up. ROPES are dropped from the chopper as it hovers over the building...
NOW! Go! Go! The marines start to RAPPEL DOWN, one after another as... Nantz exchanges a glance with Michele.
They'll get you safe. He smiles at the girls. Then turns, nods at Hector. Puts a hand on his shoulder. A BEAT.
See you soon, buddy.
What are you gonna do?
We're gonna fight. Nantz turns, grabs a ROPE, drops out of the chopper.
Why'd we get off the chopper, Sergeant?
'Cause we have a job to do.
But we were getting out...!
You have some hunch and now we're stuck out here in the shit?!
That's right. This fight's not over.
Sergeant's gonna get us killed! Just like my brother. A beat. Nantz eyes Correggio. It's laid open now.
Believe me, Correggio, I grieved for every marine I ever lost... Nantz looks around now, from marine to marine.
But we are in the fight of our lives right now. And our duty is to keep moving forward. Keep fighting. That's how we honor men like your brother, Correggio. And Lt. Martinez. And Hector's father, who saved Adukwu's life. He wasn't trained for that. He just picked up a rifle and did what needed to be done. If a civilian can do that...
Well then I better square my shit away and do whatever I have to do to defeat this enemy. But I can't do it alone. Nantz stares. The tension is palpable.
I need you men. And maybe we'll die fighting today. Not because we're heroes. But because we're goddamn United States marines, and always will be.
Sergeant. We'll follow you to hell and back. Nantz smiles, nods.
Good. 'Cause that's where we're going.
Laser target, sir?
Might have to get some cruise missiles in here.
Shit, yes, Sergeant.
Just hit the gas, Corporal. We got plenty of armor. Everyone looks up at this. Then looks out to see... The aliens attacking, FIRING on the LAV as... Stavrou floors it, ALIEN FIRE pinging off the LAV's armor as... SPLAT!!!
Reverse, Corporal.
Aye, aye, Sergeant. As he BACKS UP, mowing back over the remaining aliens... The marines cheer.
What's going on?
Losing power, Sergeant. Gauges are dropping... losing voltage... The LAV slows. The engine skips. Then the LAV DIES.
Stavrou?
She's dead, Sergeant. Nantz looks around, warily. The streets are quiet, deserted.
All right, dismount. Grab anything you think we can use. The men nod, and move OUT OF THE LAV to...
Hot as hell here.
No lights.
My watch stopped.
Something's generating heat. Messing with our electronics. Sucking up all the power... Nantz scans the street. The sweat dripping into his eyes.
Where would you put a critical asset if you wanted to protect it? Or hide it?
Underground. Nantz points to A SUBWAY ENTRANCE AHEAD.
Harris, Adukwu, stay here, watch the street. Harris and Adukwu nod. Taking position at the entrance. Nantz motions to the others.
Let's go. Nantz leads Stavrou, Correggio, Kerns and Imlay down the stopped escalator to the SUBWAY PLATFORM. Nantz stands, gazing around at the empty subway platform. Silent. Spooky. A train is stopped. Doors open. It is dark, the only light bleeding in from the street above. He motions Stavrou to guard against anything coming from above. Then he moves forward with the others. A huge number of BIRDS line the dark cavity above the train tracks, taking cover themselves, roosting quietly. Nantz sees a DOOR in the tunnel wall, heads to it. He pulls his KA-BAR KNIFE out, sticks the blade into the door jam, pops the DOOR OPEN. Nantz turns to Correggio and Kerns.
One of the ALIENS TURNS, focusing up, right at Nantz. Nantz spins, runs back into the darkness. Calling to Imlay:
Run, Imlay! Run! BANG. The iron GRATE FLIES into the air.
How many?
Hard to tell. A lot.
I think I got their attention. Nantz kneels. He opens his pack, pulls out the radio and the case marked GLTD.
Look. There's something big down in the tunnels. It's sucking up a lot of power, could be a major Command &.Control asset.
We need to destroy it.
But we got no jets left, right, Sergeant?
Hopefully, they can still fire cruise missiles from Pendleton or Vandenburg... I'll radio in a strike, paint the target from the street. You know what that means. The man nod solemnly.
We gotta hold 'em off long enough to paint the target.
If we can get a transmission out before the radio dies...
And the targeting laser lasts long enough for command to get a lock on the target.
Hell, dying's easy, ladies. Everything else takes balls, right? They all laugh softly.
Let's do it. He takes a deep breath, raises the radio, and TRANSMITS:
Foxtrot 2. You have visual confirmation of this C&C asset? We can't waste resources.
Affirmative. They're building a huge complex underground... I think it's the head of the snake. Repeat. I will be...
Here they come! The marines FORM A PERIMETER AROUND THE LASER, OPENING UP on the aliens as... The mass of aliens surges forward like a wave.
Hold them back! We have to keep the laser on target! Nantz FIRES. An alien goes down. He picks another target and FIRES. The alien staggers, keeps coming. Three more rounds and the alien goes down. But the rest KEEP COMING... closing in...
Did we get a lock!?
I don't know! Then... An ear-splitting NOISE. The marines look up, see...
INCOMING! Fall back! This way! Nantz and his men begin BACKING AWAY. Firing as they do, trying to hold off the aliens. Nantz, limping on his injured ankle, GOES DOWN. Correggio is there to help him up.
Think you just twisted your ankle,. sir. And through it all, Nantz still smiles at this.
Don't stop!! We're too close to the impact point!! The marines start running as...
AS ONE, the men rise out of the ash, standing tall.
The marines fall in. A PHALANX with Nantz at its center.
They move forward. Precise. Deadly. FIGHTING AS ONE. The seven remaining marines POUR FIRE on the mass of aliens. The Drone Ships fall from the sky, EXPLODING on the ground. The aliens, in disarray, are mowed down. The rest FLEE. And as the smoke drifts away, there is silence again. Nantz looks up to see...
You know what, Sergeant? My brother said you were a bad ass.
Your brother was one helluva marine, Correggio.
Man, it's quiet.
They're in full retreat throughout Los Angeles, heading back into the ocean. Units are mopping up. On this, Nantz turns to his SQUAD. Beat.
This has been a hell of a battle. Plenty of other battles to go. Everybody good with that? The marines don't hesitate.
Yes, Sergeant!
Well, uh, actually, Sergeant... there's this girl I was supposed to meet up with tonight...
I think you men earned the right to call yourselves marines today. I'm damn proud of every one of you. Retreat!?
