Okay. Is it on?
Yeah yeah.
This is for our friend Hal Fields. Hal. We love you.
You're coming to live with me now. Arthur looks at him.
This is my car. Arthur hops in.
This is the dining room where people come and eat sometimes. The dog listens intently. Oliver moves on, the dog follows.
This is the living room.
That's the bathroom. The dog looks.
This is 2003. This is what the sun looks like, and the stars, nature. This is the President.
And this is the sun in 1955, and the stars, and nature, and cars, and phones, and movies, and the President. These are what pets looked like. These are fireworks. This was smoking.
This is what it looked like when people kissed...
...When they were happy...
...When they were sad.
My parents got married in 1955.
He was a museum director - she fixed up old houses.
They had a child, and they stayed married for 44 years...
...Until she died in their bed, after four months of cancer and eating French toast for every meal and watching the Teletubbies everyday and confusing white straws for her cigarettes and skipping back and forth through time inside her head.
Six months later, my father told me he was gay. He had just turned 75.
I'm gay. Same camera angle, Hal still looking into camera we jump cut to him wearing a robe.
I always remember him wearing a purple sweater when he told me this but actually he wore a robe.
I'm gay. Same angle, we continue to jump cut through Hal talking to camera, each cut in different clothes, and with each cut his line has a different inflection.
I'm gay. Jump cut, new outfit.
I loved your mother, but, uh... now I want to explore this side. Jump cut, new outfit.
I don't want to be just theoretically gay, I want to do something about it. New outfit and inflection.
...I want to do something about it... New outfit and inflection.
...I want to do something about it.
He changed all his clothes.
He got a boyfriend, Andy, a physical trainer who was also studying for his professional pyrotechnic license. Camera lands on Hal beaming with pride, his arm around Andy who looks into camera and says.
Since I came out to my father, he never speaks to me. That's why I've been always attracted to older men. Hal and friends laugh warmly at Andy. We cut to live action "portraits" of a priest, a therapist, the Primetimers, his movie-night club, and the large L.A. Pride group, all looking into camera.
He found an out gay priest to guide him spiritually. He saw a therapist for the first time. He joined the Primetimers. Movie night. Los Angeles Pride, and then...
Four years after he came out, he died in this room...
Look, its lonely out here, so you'd better learn how to talk with me. Arthur's face looks up at him filled with a dog's love and no words.
While I understand up to 150 words - I don't talk. Oliver leans down, pushing his head into Arthur's.
I know. I know.
MOMENTS LATER: Oliver sits with Hal, now off the ventilator but still very weak and disoriented. Oliver coaches his breathing.
Calm. Calm, calm breaths. Hal coughs.
Oliver! Please help me with all these ropes. Oliver rushes and helps him.
Pop, Pop, stop -- you're gonna hurt yourself. A NURSE quickly enters and helps hold down his arms.
Mr. Fields, we're going to have to secure your arms again.
You two married?
No, Pop.
Why not? She's great. The nurse smiles, embarrassed, and continues with her job.
She's a great nurse in the hospital, we don't really know her, you're very high on drugs.
You always have some very good reason, haven't you?
No, Pop, I just don't want to be like you and mom.  Thank you...
DIFFERENT DAY, IN OLIVER'S BEDROOM: Oliver watches Hal and Georgia kiss, and Hal leave - more like a performance than anything real. DIFFERENT DAY, IN PARENT'S BEDROOM: Oliver watches Hal and Georgia kiss and Hal exit, quick and dry. 10-year-old Oliver studies them each time.
Oliver! He turns and Georgia shoots him with her finger, Oliver falls to the ground.
Olly, you can do better. He gets up and she shoots him again - He falls more dramatically, knocking his head on the floor.
That's good. His mom looks at him affectionately.
Go have your own experiences with your own people. I'll be right here... Arthur stays by Oliver's side.
I'm a human. I'm not a dog. And you're a Jack Russell, that's a breed. Your personality was created by this guy John Russell, a hunting enthusiast, in the 1800s. And he bred your ancestors to have stamina and courage for the hunt. You think you're just you, and you want to chase the foxes, but other people planted that in you years ago.
Now, somewhat arbitrarily, you are considered very cute by us humans, and we keep breeding you not to chase foxes, but to be cute, and we put you in movies and television shows, and you, you're chasing tennis balls cause there as close to a fox as you're going to get. Arthur stays by Oliver's side.
Want me to read this? I found it in your books.
Yeah, alright. Give me the flashlight. Oliver opens it, they look at a few pages together, photos of serene gardens.
Nice.
Oh, that's nice.
Oh, Andy brought those for you.
Oh, yeah? Hal continues to direct the light across the room, we follow the circle of light as it moves a cross a wall landing on a painting.
Oh, who did that painting?
Well, I don't know. Its just a painting on the wall. Hal continues exploring, Oliver's enjoying his father's curiosity, he lands on some photos displayed on the table.
A--, and these?
They're just photos, Pop.
But how do they relate to the exhibit?
They're just personal photos. They're not art. Hal slowly moves the flashlight up the wall, across the ceiling to a strange assortment of fire detectors, sprinklers, sensors, all laid out against the acoustic tile ceiling. Hal points up. Oliver looks for a beat, then...
Uh, well that's the water sprinkler thing.
Well, its beautiful.
What is?
Putting the Japanese gardens there. It's just beautiful.
Hal.
Andy! Andy gets on the bed opposite Oliver. He gives Hal a big kiss on the lips. Hal glows. Oliver backs away slowly. Andy picks up Hal's hand, turns it palm up and presses his face into it.
I brought something for you. Oliver watches from outside the room as Andy excitedly pulls a portable tape player out of his bag.
We made a recording for you.
Oh, God. Andy pushes play, on the recording we hear Andy's voice:
LATER: Oliver get's to his real work, pulling out a few 8X10 photos of a band "The Sads". There are some instructions on record company letterhead - he is to do an album design for their new record - they want him to draw portraits of the three members. Oliver begins to do quick portraits of them based on the photo.
Jesus, Liz. Another band that wants portraits.
Well, at least it pays the rent.
You do something decent once, and that's all people ever want. JUMP CUT through the different portraits developing. It's not what Oliver want's to do.
Hi Liz. Oliver continues to draw, as Shauna and Elliott try to get his attention.
Oliver?
Yeah?
The pen is not your friend. The paper is not your friend. The party is your friend. We're your friends. Your friends are your friends.
I got the skills... he's got the moves...
I got the moves... you've got the skills...
Arthur, you haven't been invited to this party. You're gonna stay and look after the house. Oliver tentatively shuts the door, takes three steps, Arthur begins to howl. Oliver tries to ignore it, but stops again. He looks back at the house and the howling.
You remember when Oliver was funny? And he could actually, like, talk, in complete sentences?
Funny? Funny? I don't think so Fun maybe, but not funny unless, like, serious is funny. Then he's' fucking hilarious. Elliot and Oliver laugh.
But, lovable. You are very lovable.
Yeah, very lovable.
So cute, does he do tricks?
His name's Arthur - he doesn't do tricks. In the background are a couple dressed as JULIAN and ETHEL ROSENBERG, we see them observe Oliver and Arthur.
No? Arthur, SIT! Arthur promptly sits down. Oliver's totally surprised.
He's so cute. Shake! Arthur sticks out his paw. Oliver doesn't like seeing Arthur blindly perform.
Oh my god, he's so cute, I want him.
 Does it make you feel powerful to order my dog around? Maybe give you a sense of power?
Oh, you're being a therapist! Freud!
Thanks, yeah. Very good. Oliver picks up Arthur and escapes the kitchen. The Rosenberg's are still watching.
Oliver and Arthur sit in a chair next to a couch where a man dressed as a witch, complete with green face and long black hair, is lying back as if in a traditional analysis session.
Well, I didn't ask for this. Who would ask for this? This color. This nose. This cheek, this chin. You know, this is my life. This isn't a story. This isn't a joke... Oliver is playing along, but he's really not emotionally ready for this party. He feels very far away.
Yeah.
I'm so glad you came, Doc. Just really good to get this stuff off my chest.
 I'm sorry. Our time is up, uh... for this week. Thank you for coming in. The witch moves on. Oliver sits with Arthur in his lap, alone, lost in all this joviality. We see that the woman dressed as Julius Rosenberg is watching him. Just as Oliver is about to get up, she plops herself down onto the couch, ready for her session.
Oh, I was just- I was gonna take a break, actually. She pulls out a writing pad, oblivious. Oliver can tell she's not going to give it up.
 Well, I guess we should start with your mother. The woman writes on her notepad and shows it to Oliver: "Never had one."
Well then your father. She mimes shooting herself in the head and dying.
I don't understand. You can't talk? Is it a mental problem? Do you need analysis? She writes on her pad: "I have laryngitis"
That's a physical problem. She smiles at him, looks at him a little too long, Oliver is more and more pulled in by her playfulness - she writes: "Why are you at a party if you're sad?" CU on Oliver, surprised and impressed by her observation.
I was doing such a good job of hiding it. How could you tell? Ethel holds up her notebook. She has drawn TWO EYES. Oliver's taken by her.
Clearly, I'm gonna need a drink. You? She smiles and nods.
You, stay here, yeah? Oliver moves to--
No, its just not a natural color for a chicken.
No.
(motioning to Shauna's
And look, you see what happens when you free yourself from the cage, walk away from the factory.
You just have no real color.
Oliver slips past, hands Arthur to Elliot. He scoops ice from the bucket and starts filling two cups.
Hey, hey.
Two drinks.
What does that me--, one, two.
Well that's two, two people.
Two people. A girl and a guy?
Hopefully.
Yeah, wow, making moves. Oliver leaves Arthur in Elliott's arms.
Watch him OK? Oliver begins to leave his drinks. We see his POV of the woman dressed as Julius Rosenberg waiting on the couch. Oliver slips into one of his memories...
Hello?
Oliver?
Yeah.
I'm not sorry I woke you! I went to Akbar tonight.
You did?
They had wonderfully loud music. In- sit, in-sit, in-sit. What kind of music is that?
Probably house music?
"House music."
So did you meet anyone? At the packed bar, Hal drinks alone.
Young gay men don't go for older gay men.
You have it easy.
Would you like to dance? She happily nods yes. They walk to the dance floor, we think Oliver's going to be shy, but he breaks into a kinetic, angular, dance. She's surprised with us - she laughs, they have a good time.
LATER. They dance again, now they're sweaty, the dance floor's packed - it's the pinnacle of the party.
Hello... Shes mouths a silent "hi"...
Can I give you my number? She pulls out her pad and pen and hands them to him.
Thanks. As he writes, Oliver spies Arthur sitting in the corner of the bathroom, staring directly at him.
Tell her the darkness is about to drown us unless something drastic happens right now. Oliver looks to her.
I feel bad dragging Arthur to the party. I should get home. It was really nice meeting you. She writes on her pad: "Au Revoir"
Hello? ON THE OTHER END: Silence. A little breathing, the party in background.
Is that you?
One beep means yes?
I've always wanted to have a phone call with someone who doesn't talk...
You want to do something?
Now?
Okay, I'm parked just right up the street. BEEP. They hang up. Oliver is filled with hope. CUT TO: "Julius" walking out into a pool of street light. They smile at each other, but don't say anything. They get into his car.
Okay. You point - I'll drive. Oliver starts the engine. She points forward and they head off. At the light she points left, he follows. Down the street she points right...
This way?
Nice place. They sit on her bed. She steals his pipe, put's it in her mouth -- writes on her pad and shows it to him.
Oh, my mother. My mother died five years ago.
 Oh merd.
Oh, you spoke.
My father died two months ago, almost three. She looks at him with sincere empathy and surprise. Oliver's opened up, an now everything gushes out, he barely knows what he's saying.
He, he was gay. She's very surprised.
He was gay the whole time they were married.
He came out after my mother died and, uh... he was 75 years old. There's a quiet moment of deep connection.
Sorry. She mouths "No" . She reaches out and gently runs a finger across Oliver's brow and the outline of his face, he's so vulnerable, she lovingly/mischievously squishes his face together and messes up his hair. Then she leans in, and they kiss for the first time - delicately.
Sure, sure. They lay down, she takes his arm and pulls him into spooning her. He pulls the covers over them.
Oliver. She writes again: "Go to NY. Audition. Back Thursday."
How long are you here when you get back? Anna holds up one finger.
A year? Anna shakes her head and smiles. She gestures smaller.
A month? Right. And then?... She pantomimes a camera rolling, and herself acting.
You're filming here. Acting.
And after?... She makes a casual tossing motion with her hand.
Just somewhere else. Where? Anna only shrugs. She writes more, and tosses the notepad on his lap. Oliver reads: "Can I see you again?" He's very happy.
Yes.
Hello house,  hello Oliver.
Jesus, Pop, you get so much mail. Oliver slows and stares at his father's magazine - The Advocate. Two attractive, shirtless men on the cover under the title: America's Sweethearts. Oliver's lost in memory...
Hal, its remarkable how well you've recovered from being on the ventilator.
But...?
The bronchoscopy revealed a mass about the size of a quarter. It is located in your lower right lung. CU on Hal taking this in.
I'm afraid the biopsy showed it's cancerous.
Uh-huh. I see.
It appears to have spread... to the large hilar lymph nodes in your chest and liver.
DOCTOR LONG With the already weakened state of your heart and lungs... As Dr. Long talks about treatments, Oliver drifts back from the conversation, slowly retreating to a window in the far corner, as we continue to hear Dr. Long speak, we see Oliver's thoughts, fixating on "a mass about the size of a
... Surgery isn't possible given its location. We can start radiation treatments and see if you're strong enough for Chemo. You will be able to go home.
Do you have any questions?
No. Thank you. As the doctor leaves. Oliver takes his father's hand.
I'm sorry.
Well, let's not rush out and tell everyone.
Andy?
No need to get him up a tree. Hal takes a moment and composes himself. In his eyes we can see that he knows there is an end to his life.
Can you read me something?
The Brazilian ballet star is already known not only as a skilled partner, but also as a gifted and versatile dancer, who adeptly fields roles ranging... Camera tracks out of the room, leaving the two men alone...
He looks down and pets Arthur, as we hear...
Yeah, he's fine. He sleeps on your bed.
But is he eating?
Yeah, yeah, he's eating.
Oh God, I worry so much about-- As Andy enters, his hands mysteriously cupped together.
Oh here we are... Andy shows Hal his cupped hands.
What have you got in there?
A slug.
Oh, Andy, you can't bring that kind of thing in here.
Oh I can look. Andy flashes open his hands, revealing nothing. He snorts and laughs.
Fuck you. Oliver watches with amusement. NURSE SOPHIA enters...
It's time for inspection... The nurse works her way between Andy and Hal to take his pulse.
Hello, Mr. Fields.
Hello. Andy feels interrupted, strangely hurt by the nurse. The nurse begins to take Hal's vital signs.
I'm Andy. Hal's boyfriend
I'm Sophia. Andy gets more and more upset.
You know, I have the right to be here as much as anyone else. Hal lovingly cuts him off, trying to ease the tension.
Go take a walk. Calm yourself. Andy walks out, feeling embarrassed and rejected.
What was all that?
Oh, Andy hasn't had it easy. Be nice to him. To everyone's surprise, Andy storms back in with a bouquet of flowers, dumps them on Hal's chest, kisses him triumphantly and leaves again.
 Andy, where did you get these?
Guys, guys, this is to us. Cheers. A NURSE suddenly enters.
Drinking's not allowed in the room. All the guys freeze.
Oh, it's not? She shakes her head no, the party stops, she leaves. Oliver instinctively polite, starts packing up their cups.
I'm sorry. Moans and complaints from the group.
No, no, no. She's a wonderful nurse. (he pauses a beat, then raises his cup again) Here's to health care. Hal swigs back his wine. They all laugh, grab their cups and toast.
To health care! Hal looks happy, Oliver smiles but can't believe his dad.
What did you do with my father? He was so polite.
Oh, I invited him - but he never returns my calls. The guys drink merrily. Someone shoves a cup into Oliver's hand, pours him a drink.
Two, four, six, eight...
That's it? That's all you're gonna tell me?
I'm gonna meet her at her hotel again. You happy?
Yeah, I'm very happy. Are you happy? Oliver drops his books on the counter to check out.
 Here's eight... Turns to Elliot.
We haven't actually had a conversation yet, so, you know...
You're thinking about her all the time.
And you know that because?
Because you're not talking about it. I know you. There's a pause, then the truth.
It's true. It's embarrassing. I'm 38 and falling for a girl again...
It's like I lost the instructions or I, I never had them... Young Oliver walks up to Georgia.
Where's Pop?
At the museum.
Is something wrong with you guys? Georgia is startled, she hides her feelings with humor.
What're you, in the FBI?
No.
The CIA?
No.
KGB? SLA?  BMW? Oliver sits silently.
There is nothing wrong with me and Pop. Georgia's mask breaks revealing sadness. Oliver can see it, she can see he sees it. Georgia gets up and leads Oliver out of the room.
C'mon.
When you feel bad, you go into a room and scream - loud as you want, for a minute or two, then it's out of you. It's called catharsis. She opens the door, pushes him inside, and closes the door.
I don't feel like screaming... Georgia, never ruffled.
You will...
What the fuck is that?
L-E-IT, Elliot
Well, that's ridiculous.
I know! (Getting his criticism more) You're not very supportive.
Well, its just copying something someone did, like, 30 years ago in the Bronx.
Well yeah. I'm part of a tradition of civil disobedience, something bigger than myself. Oliver can't believe Elliott said that.
How does it work?
Shake it, you have to shake it. Oliver shakes it awkwardly, then sprays across the wall:
What was that?
Historical consciousness... you know, something bigger than myself. Elliott scoffs.
Let's do it again. Elliott drives off. Oliver's coming to life.
Okay, but when you see her, don't tell her that you painted historical consciousness on the wall... WE SEE: more of Oliver's graffiti on different buildings:
He's sweet. He misses your Dad. She stops. Gets up, nervous, and walks past Oliver into the next room. Oliver follows her in. They pause uncomfortably, Anna suddenly leans in and kisses him. Before it goes to far...
Maybe we, we could, um, just talk for a second.
Right. They awkwardly break apart. Anna goes to a chair, Oliver follows. While nothing has really been expressed between the two, Anna seems to understand the problem.
Well, my name is Anna. You're worried you can't trust me because you don't know who I am. I get it. That makes sense to me. She falters, looks at him vulnerably. Oliver abruptly kisses her. She pushes back. They pause. She traces his brow slowly with her index finger, the way she did their first night.
Oliver, stop it.
This music's old.
It's black, black music is the deepest cause they suffered the most, them and the Jews. Oliver plops down on the bed, listening to her.
In my next life I'm gonna marry a good hot blooded Jew - someone full of emotion.
I'm Jewish right? Georgia comes and sits with him, caresses his hair as she talks with him.
You're turning into a wonderful driver. Oliver's proud.
Excuse me Mrs. Fields....
What? You're not allowed to interact with the art?
It's just that...
C'mon. Still embarrassed, Oliver takes Georgia's hand and walks her away from the guard.
You too? You like being a good citizen?
No.
Can you toss me my camisole. Oliver throws a sweater.
No, my camisole. She throws the sweater back at him. Oliver looks around helplessly. He grabs a flower out of a vase and hands it to her.
Camisole? Anna laughs.
You don't know what a camisole is?
I was brought up by these animals and they didn't like questions. They're both smiling now.
They were very frowned upon. So I had to guess. Anna takes this in.
You can ask me anything.
Anything? CUT TO: Oliver and Anna at the window.
What's out there? She points.
That's a tree.
Yeah.
And cars.
Uh-huh.
Another building like this one.
Right.
People in the building like us. Half of them think things will never work out. The other half believe in magic. It's like a war between them. Oliver smiles. He moves away from the window.
How do you know so much about people?
Oh. Well, you have to learn how to read their faces. She climbs onto his lap, straddles him.
For example... here is mad. Anna passes her hand across her face, and she's "mad".
Happy... Her hand passes again and she's "happy".
Sometimes its just nothing.
Oh yeah? She points at her blank face.
This is nothing... And they are good at looking one way and being another way. Her playfulness is very meaningful to Oliver, he's in love.
You don't know me. I like that.
No, that's not true.
Oh yeah?
Yeah, you have blonde hair that goes down to about here. You smoke in non-smoking rooms. Oliver is still covering her eyes, leading her to a certain point, the busy sound of the freeway fading up...
Okay, open your eyes... HIGH ANGLE on huge trucks and traffic racing just beneath Oliver and Anna's feet under the overpass. The trucks lay on their horns as they pass, scaring and thrilling them. MOMENTS LATER: they walk alongside the LA river together, arm in arm, happy. The intimate conversation continues in voice over.
Oh yeah? You drive on the sidewalk. You were raised by animals. Sometimes you look very alone, like you just got here. They meet up with friends on the banks of the river.
Yeah, you see, you don't know me at all.
She's unlike any girl I've ever met.
Someone flashy walks into your life and you're just gonna fall for it?
Are we married yet?
No, uh, it doesn't work like that. There are other steps, it's complicated. They look at each other a beat and then walk on together.
I hope this feeling lasts.
What happened with Michelle?
You know... I don't know.
She seemed great.
She was great.
Maybe you should take out a personal ad, where you explain your situation?
My situation?
Yeah, I mean, you want to be in a relationship but you can't stay in one.
That's your fatherly advice? Personal ads?
Well, a lot of people use them... I did.
What?
If Andy wasn't going to be monogamous, why should I be?
Jesus, Pop.
Jesus yourself.
Hello house (Answers back in deep voice) Hello Hal. Andy holds Arthur. Hal and Arthur kiss. They've clearly missed each other. JUMP CUTS: Oliver takes bottles of pills and syrups and inhalers out of a Sav-On bag. He makes a chart of the medicine, the dosage, and puts the pills in a dish. It's emotional job for him.
Oh God, what have you got this time?
It's a green caterpillar.
No, no, no, you don't have a green caterpillar.
Oh yeah I do.
Oh my God. Gross! Oh, Jesus...
Hey, you going?
Yeah, Michael's in town.
Oh. Right. Andy waves goodbye and leaves. Hal is sad but covering it up. He catches Oliver watching.
I thought he was your boyfriend?
Well, at least I'm the number one boyfriend. Hal grimaces in pain, doubles over.
Pop.
Oh, my stomach.
Alright, come on. Come on. Oliver tries to clear the couch of books and dogs for Hal to sit down.
Arthur, down.
Well, let's say, when you were little, you always dreamed of some day getting a lion? Oliver eases Hal down onto the couch.
And you wait and you wait and you wait and you wait and the lion doesn't come. Then along comes a giraffe. Oliver helps Hal get his feet up.
You can be alone or you can be with the giraffe.
I'd wait for the lion. Oliver grabs the oxygen tubes and puts them on Hal's face.
That's why I worry about you. Hal looks at Oliver with love and concern.
Oliver stops drawing, thinking of a conversation with his father. CUT TO: Hal on his couch  talking to Oliver.
You want me to be with someone like me. I like Andy cause he's not like me... he's fun.
Hey, what did you get? She puts the cover of Liv Ullman's "Changing" over her face - Ullman's face on the cover becomes Anna's.
Liv Ullman. Very serious.
And I found this crazy book. She holds an old copy of THE JOY OF SEX in front of her face.
That's kind of a classic American thing. Anna opens the book to a large drawing of a couple having sex.
Maybe we can figure out some classic American things to do. Oliver takes the book and flips through the pages.
Yeah, Like page 75?
Uh-huh.
Or 75 all the way through, through
Oliver, Anna and Arthur sit at the end of an aisle looking at a book on "Old Hollywood". The book has a photo of Louise Brooks from the Twenties.
Veronica Lake.
Oh I love her.
She was a pin-up model and a film star... Success was short-lived... series of broken marriages... She struggled with mental illness and alcoholism. She died of hepatitis at the age of 53.
All these actor stories end sad. I can tell you that already. It's not a good life. Oliver closes the book, they share a look, and something vulnerable. Anna changes the mood, pulls out The Joy Of Sex, skips through the pages as she talks.
So. Now I want real Mexican food. She stops on an illustration she likes.
And I want to try page... 46.
No.
Yeah.
Really?
It's really good. JUMP CUT: They're sitting on milk crates by the truck, ready to take their first bite, Anna dives in un-selfconsciously, we're not sure what she thinks.
What do you think?
It's so good. Oliver's so relieved.
It's good? Oh, I wasn't sure you'd like it.
Why?
You're an actress and staying in that fancy hotel. Anna can barely swallow her huge bite...
I like this place.
I used to love hotels. But now I'm always in a new apartment or... in another hotel somewhere.
How do you keep hold of friends... or boyfriends?
It makes it very easy to end up alone - to leave people.
You can stay in the same place and still find ways to leave people. She reaches up with her hand, their fingers intertwine.
You are like that? Its what you do? Oliver nods yes. They know each other much better than either one knew.
So we are the same?
Yeah, I guess so. The look to each other.
Pop?
Oh, did I wake you? Yeah. (Handing Maria some books) Thank you Maria. And now that you're here, uh, would you please put those up there?
What are you--? Pop. What?
I'm reorganizing.
Prednisone makes you crazy.
I'm just not sleepy. I feel great.
Pop, you should rest. Hal looks sick but energized, he shuffles his desk of papers.
As soon as I finish these papers. Right, papers? (In a different voice) Right, Hal. As soon as you're done, you can rest. Oliver can only sit and worry.
What?
Nothing, you're pretty.
No...
Yeah.
Jewish girls are not pretty. They can be "interesting", or cute, but not pretty.
You're kidding right?
That's what my mom told me.
She did not. Anna laughs. As Anna continues to explain, the sound begins to fade down...
No, you're right, this girl at school told me that. And I went home and my mom said, `Anna, who told you that? And Oliver's narration fades in over them walking...
This is what it looks like when Anna tells me about being Jewish in 2003. And when I tell her that my mother was Jewish. And then my father turned in his gay badge when my mother turned in her Jewish badge. And they got married in
My mother didn't know she was Jewish until she was 13. It was 1938. This is what people looked like.
And lions and giraffes. This man was Man of the Year.
Her father tried to hide that they were Jewish. This is the swim team that asked her to leave once they discovered that she was Jewish.
This is what pretty looked like in
My father realized he was gay when he was 13. It was 1938.
This is what pretty looked like.
This is the only place my father could hide and have sex in the Fifties.
My father said if you got caught my the Vice Squad you could lose everything... This is everything.
My father laid down on a couch like this and told the psychiatrist all his problems in 1955. The doctor told him that homosexuality was a mental illness, but it could be cured.
Not everyone got cured.
This is where my parents lived in
And this is the home where the first gay rights group was secretly meeting.
While they were reciting their vows, here in this church...
Allen Ginsburg was writing his famous poem, Howl, blocks away in this room.
Who let themselves be fucked in the ass by saintly motorcyclists and screamed with joy. Who blew and were blown...
LATER: the three members of "The Sads" and a RECORD COMPANY REP arrive. Jelly Roll Morton piano plays, we see but do not hear the meeting take place. The Sads look at the designs, which include many of the "History Of Sadness" drawings we have seen now in CD cover format - and no portraits of the band. It's clear that The Sads are not into Oliver's work. CUT TO: After the meeting, the RECORD COMPANY REP talks to Oliver alone.
Yeah. Right.
Here, Pop.
Oh, God.
I know, I know. Come on. Hal begins taking his many pills, with each one he pings his glass with a teaspoon as he swallows. The room is cluttered with books. Oliver picks up a toppling pile of files from a paper-filled side table.
Hey, no, no, no. That's the Gay Pride Day stuff. Just leave those.
Alright. Oliver begins to neaten a messy pile of books on top of a chair.
And that's for gay book club. You better leave those too.
But what about this chair? Is it gay?
The chair's not gay. Obviously. Hal gets up and walks to the kitchen, his oxygen cannon cord is attached to the pump behind him, stopping him short.
Pop, Pop, the cord won't go that far.
Oh, to hell with it. Hal pulls off the oxygen and keeps walking, frail but determined. Andy enters with a large pilates ball.
Oh, hey what's that?
Now that you're out of the hospital, you'll have to exercise, get you back into shape. Oliver can't believe it.
That's a great idea.
Okay, let's try it. I'll, I'll show you how. Hal's still heading to the sink.
Yeah, later on, I'm gonna make myself some tea.
Okay, I'll clean it up. It's a little - yech. Andy walks out, Hal pours water into a kettle, in front of him on the window sill is the same vase from the first scene of the film, with some dead daisies in it.
Your mother's vase needs some flowers. Oliver looks at them frustrated and uneasy...
Pop, you just got out of the hospital, you should take it easy.
You need to tell Andy that you're... not well. Hal, continues on, avoiding looking at Oliver.
You'll tell him, won't you? Oliver's flabbergasted, but his dad's vulnerability is clear to him.
Me?
Please?
Hey. Oliver approaches seriously, this makes Andy nervous, he stops his workout. Oliver tries to find his words.
You know that I tried to have sex with women?
Yeah?
Yeah. I wanted you to know I tried, it just, it didn't work.
Hey, I don't have a problem with gay guys.
Have you ever had sex with a man?
No.
I heard that if a man hasn't had sex with another man, he's always afraid of gay men. You know, they're a threat. Oliver's blown away by the logic.
I don't know Andy.
I didn't want you to feel threatened, I don't want to have sex with you. What I do, most people wouldn't even call it sex. Andy's relieved he got this off his chest, all tension is relieved for him, Oliver is just confused.
Okay, okay.
Hey... Andy gives Oliver a big sweaty hug. Oliver leaves.
I couldn't tell him.
That's okay.
No it's not. You can't hide this from him. He loves you.
For someone with so much relationship advice, you seem awfully alone. Oliver, angry but at a loss for words, takes the flower vase and leaves, Arthur follows.
Just act natural. When he's not looking, we'll make a run for it, okay?
Don't, don't. It keeps ringing.
It's my dad. They both watch the phone as it rings and stops.
He's that bad? She picks up the phone, and gestures for Oliver to pick up the line next to him.
I'll be my dad, you be me.
Honey? She gestures again, Oliver picks up the phone on his side of the bed. Anna turns away, he can only see her back across the bed. He turns away too.
Oui? Anna continues to talk in a different voice.
C'est toi, cheri?
Oui Papa.
You never call me back.
You know, I can't stop thinking about, you know, about it. Doing it.
Doing what?
Killing myself. You are the only one I can tell that to. Oliver breaks role, turns around looks at her.
You should tell mom about that, not me. She just looks at him. Back into phone.
You are my girl. They hang up. She's embarrassed, she lightens the mood to get out of this intimacy.
Now I have to kill you.
Just as it was going so well.
I know. I'm sorry. She tosses a pillow over his face and pretends to shoot him twice. She pulls the pillow back tentatively, he's smiling.
Hey Anna?
Hey Oliver?
How do you feel about vandalism? It's the last question she thought he'd ask. She's amused.
I don't know. Pretty okay.
Oliver, don't write any of that serious stuff, okay? Just write something funny. Girls like funny.
You know what? Here, give me Arthur. We'll just stay here and get arrested. You know, that's good. Oliver leaves Arthur with her, and Anna and Elliott and him head off to the billboard. They climb it's structure, it's high and a bit scary. On the top is a gang plank looking over the city. Anna is happy she came. Elliott goes to paint the back side of the billboard. Oliver meets up with Anna, over looking the city.
You okay?
Yeah. I'm gonna stay here with my new friend (the handrail she holds).
Okay. Oliver walks out and writes big letters across the billboard.
C'est beau ici.
Yeah. He comes to her, wanting to get beyond the romance somehow.
I'm trying to impress you.
Really? She walks to him and puts her hands around his head, somehow it's more intimate and vulnerable now.
It's working. They kiss. MOMENTS LATER. They're at the bottom of the ladder. They all run back to their car.
Arthur, Arthur. I'm sorry. We see the old man's face, it's not Hal, but it the resemblance hits Oliver too. The man is struggling with his hotel key card.
Oh. No problem. No problem. What's with this card?
Uh, do you mind? Oliver swipes the man's key, the door opens.
Thank you. He disappears. Oliver looks overwhelmed by this ghost. Anna senses what's happened. She leads Oliver to their room.
He looked like your dad?
Yeah. She wants to take care of him, she lays him back on the bed, helps him take his coat off, she's sitting on him, caressing him - Oliver is overwhelmed by memory.
Somewhere along the line, he stopped admitting to himself that he was sick.
2. Hal arrives at the cookie plate in the Cancer Center Lobby.
3. CU on the cookie plate.
Oliver, this is Blake. He's a wonderful man. CU of the small round registration tattoos on Hal's chest
Look. I finally got a tattoo. Registration purposes of course.
Good for him.
He did a lot of shopping. Bought all these books.
And new clothes.
He was obsessed with Staples.
He bought a lot of plants.
He had a lot of parties.
Well, glad you could make it.
I thought I was making dinner?
It's movie night. Oliver and Hal make their way through a crowd of Hal's gay friends. They're in party mode.
Hal, you look wonderful.
Oh, I'm turning the corner on this thing. We loose Hal and Oliver in the group...
He had these political letter writing parties, there was an out gay congressman he was supporting...
He started telling everyone that he was getting better. They're finally almost alone.
Why're you telling them you're "turning the corner"?
Well...
You have stage 4 cancer?
It's not as bad as it sounds.
Pop. There is no stage 5.
That's not what it means.
What does it mean?
It just means it's been through 3 other stages. Oliver doesn't know what to say, he looks through the door at all of Hal's friends -- happy, laughing, partying. He looks back at Hal, ready to fight him more, but for the first time we can see fear and doubt in Hal's face.
What movie are we watching?
"The Life of Harvey Milk." He was the first openly gay politician...
Yeah I know who Harvey Milk is.
Good, good.
MOMENTS LATER: Everyone is crowded onto the couches, they're watching the Harvey Milk film.
He hired a secretary that he could dictate to.
He wrote an essay about religion...
Eventually Jesus grew old. He could no longer walk far and he could no longer preach in a loud voice. One day he announced to his apostles that he was departing. The three disciples prayed with him, gave him water, bathed and fed him. After gasping for breath for several days, one morning, just as dawn came, Jesus passed away.
You re-wrote Jesus' death? They all laugh.
It was so violent, we need new stories. Oliver goes over and kisses Hal on the head.
For the first time I saw him really in love. Oliver waves back at his father.
He sounds amazing. But that must have been crazy for you.
Stay here. She starts to close the door, Arthur scratches, she tries again, he scratches. She opens the door, Arthur trots out into the hallway - Anna catches up with him.
Anna?
I couldn't sleep, I wanted to walk around... Oliver's petting Arthur. He's confused and hurt.
You've lost so much. What if I can't make up for that?
If this is too much, then we should just stop. Oliver gets up and starts to leave, Anna's surprised. She catches up with him puts her arms around him from behind.
Wait, wait. She forces him to stay there.
I don't want to stop. They hold this pose in silence for a beat, then, surprisingly, he hoists her over his shoulder, and carries her back to their room. She laughs, they've made it past this trouble.
Ready? Andy has a set-up of large fireworks ready to go, Hal and twelve friends stand by, Oliver's behind.
Mock enthusiasm.
No!
Again!
As Andy lights up some more.
He's still yelling after the explosions stop. The guys, all sensing the insanity laugh and yell back at him.
Oliver's laughing now - the noise, the absurdity. Hal and Oliver make eye contact. Hal yells less strongly than the others but trying...
They keep eye contact. They are bonded, happy, out of their normal confines. Oliver comes to Hal, yelling again.
Arthur! Arthur... Arthur...
Ah, you're awake! Arthur says it's time to get up, he says he has the day off.
He talks to you too?
Yeah.
Your English is not so perfect. And he said ten minutes.
You okay?  You did really well.
Yeah, I can't believe that was your first time.
You watching all the humans going around and around. The manager of the rink suddenly arrives, upset.
Excuse me. There's no dogs allowed in the building. You need to remove him from the premises please.
If I leave him on his own, he loses all control.
I'm sorry. There's no dogs allowed in the building.
Yeah, but if I leave him in the car, he cries, he howls. I can't leave him in the car.
I don't know what she's saying but I don't like it.
She is just talking in French. She's saying it's OK, it is such a small dog.
You need to remove the dog from the premises or I'm going to have to call the authorities.
You're gonna call the authorities?
Dans ce pays! On ne peut pas amener un chien. On peut rien faire. Mais c'est con...
Sorry, excuse us, sorry. They enter Anna's door.
He shouldn't do this to you. The phone in the next room keeps ringing. He awkwardly skates to it and unplugs it. He returns.
Even if we don't answer, he's still in here .I go somewhere else, he's still here. Oliver can relate.
Your leaving soon?
Yeah.
I think you should come to my house and move in with me.
Would you want a strange girl like me?
Yeah, a lot. She's very moved.
Do you cook?
Yes . She laughs. She almost cries as she thinks this over. She skates to him, puts her arms around him.
I would love that. They kiss.
But now I'm going to have to kill you for sure now.
Why?
Cause I'm falling in love with you. The sound in the room fades down, Oliver's narration fades in over the shot of them embracing in their skates.
Anna and I are in a relationship in
This is what the sun looks like and the stars. This is what it looks like when we eat. When we tell each other the stories in our heads.
I was born in 1965. Anna was born in 1971. This is what the sun looked like. Her pets. Her parents. She left home when she was 16. She lived here and here and here.
She had three serious relationships. She left all of them. I had four serious relationships. I left them too. Or let them fall apart.
We didn't go to this war. We didn't have to hide to have sex. Our god fortune allowed us to feel a sadness that our parents didn't have time for and a happiness that I never saw with them.
We didn't know how we learned the stories in our heads but sometimes they stop running and I can really see Anna's eyes in 2003. Her ears. Her feet. This is what it looks like when she says, I love you, in
This is what it looks like when she cries. When she tells me there's always a new empty room waiting for her. They used to make her feel free. Now they make her feel the opposite of free.
Next one.
Lord. With each swallow he pings a glass with a fork. Hal opens a letter from a gay rights organization, he hands Oliver the rainbow sticker we just saw.
Here, that means gay pride.
Yeah, everyone knows that, here. He gives Hal another pill, another reluctant difficult swallow, another ping.
No they don't.
Everyone knows about that Pop.
Don't be ridiculous. Hal's hiding something, he doesn't look Oliver in the eyes when he asks...
Did you know, about me? Oliver shakes his head no.
No, I just thought you and mom weren't in love.
We loved each other.
But you were gay that whole time.
I learned how not to be.
For 44 years?
I knew I was gay, though, at dinner parties I was looking at the husbands not the wives.
I couldn't have survived if I didn't know that. I just chose not to follow those instincts.
What about sex? You guys had sex?
She didn't think I was the greatest lover, but we made do. Look, I liked my life, the museum, our house, that's what I wanted.
And mom? You wanted mom too right? Frustrated and angry, Oliver takes the pill tray into the kitchen, leaving Hal behind.
Yes, stop that.
She proposed to me you know. This draws Oliver back into the room.
I said - look I love you and we're great buddies but you know what I am. And then she says, that doesn't matter. I'll fix that. Oliver's never heard this part of the story before.
I thought. Oh, God. I'll try anything.
Sex.
Life.
Healing.
Sunlight.
Spirit.
The first Gay Pride flag was made in 1978 by a man named Gilbert Baker. He gave a meaning to each color.
This man was President. This was invented, this is what movies looked like. Pets.
On November 27th, 1978. Harvey Milk was shot and killed.
One week later, my father opened his annual Museum Christmas Exhibit. He collected stuffed animals from people in the community, and put them on display. My father printed a quote from The Velveteen Rabbit in large type on the wall...
...`The stuffed rabbit asked - What is real? And the Horse said, "Real isn't how you're made. It's a thing that happens to you. When a child loves you for a long long time not just to play with, but really loves then you become real...
...And the rabbit asked, 'Does it hurt?' And the horse said, 'Sometimes.' 'Does it happen all at once like being wound up, or bit by bit?'...
...'It takes a long time. That's why it doesn't happen to people who break easily...
...Generally by the time you are real, most of your hair has been loved off, and your eyes drop out and you get loose in the joints. But these things don't matter at all because you are real and you can't be ugly, except to people who don't understand.'" The music blares as Arthur greets Oliver. Hal comes to Oliver, Andy continues to dance.
Andy's moving in.
Yeah? Is that a good idea? Hal hugs Oliver.
Just be happy about it. Oliver can't just be happy about it.
This is the idea, is that it's the history of sadness. Oliver spreads out an impossible long CD panel design.
Here, this could be your... The panels go on and on.
Your gonna need a big CD box. JUMP CUT: Later, Oliver's still trying to talk the band into his idea. Four billion years ago, Earth begins. And the idea is that sadness has not been created yet. JUMP CUT: Oliver and the RECORD COMPANY REP now alone.
I'm sorry.
Well, that went well.
Are we married yet?
Come on Arthur.
This is the living room. He leads her into the dining room.
Dining room. Oliver points to a photo of his parents when they were in their 50's.
There are my parents. My mom. Hal, Georgia, this is Anna - Anna - Hal, Georgia. Anna's overwhelmed feeling increases, she continues to try to roll with it.
Hello.
These're the stairs.
Yeah?
They go up.
I emptied these for you. I'll get your case.
Are you okay? She want's to be, she hides it all by initiating sex with him, physical and fast.
You OK?
Are you?
I couldn't sleep, I didn't want to bug you. Oliver can't overcome his mistrust of her and the whole situation. She tries to defend herself, honest and vulnerable.
I was nervous, and excited. I kept thinking, maybe I'm not so lost.
Why were you crying yesterday? They're miles apart.
You okay?
Yeah.
You seem so unhappy with me.
Well are you happy here?
Maybe I'm not perfect at it. I don't really know what I'm doing... but I want to be here. He's silent, distant, confused. She's hurt by his silence and mistrust and leaves.
I don't know Anna. I don't think this is what I am supposed to feel like. Anna looks crushed and surprised.
Okay. I will go back to New York then. She gets up to go.
Hal, you don't need to come in for any more treatments. Stoic and irreverent, Hal feigns surprise.
Have I done something wrong?
It's best that you stay home. Hospice can help you more now, any more treatments would just -- cause more pain.
I see.
I'm sorry, I wish we could do more.
You did an excellent job Dr. Long. Thank you... for... For coming to the party. Oliver's devastated.
You always wanted to hold my hand when you were little. I couldn't, you know. I was afraid it would look funny. I wanted to be close, you know and my father certainly was never close with me. God, I hope I wasn't like that.
I can barely remember you from when I was little.
I guess I was at work.
Oh! Georgia smiles at her, casually unnerving. Oliver pulls her away.
Let's go home. CUT TO: Oliver and Georgia heading away through the gallery.
What about your father? What will he possibly do without us?
Georgia? You leaving?
Yes Mary, it's an emergency, Oliver's appendix has ruptured.
Oh dear. They look at Oliver who's mortified.
He's a very composed child.
Let's go. Oliver pulls her away before she starts any more trouble.
Aha. The infamous left. Up a new street, they arrive at the next stop.
And? Oliver points left.
Left again. Going in circles. I like it. Irreverent but heavy, they drive on.
We knew it wouldn't work even before we met her. Oliver get's this more than ever. Something changes inside of him, he picks up his cel phone and dials.
Anna? Where where you?
Hey.
Hey.
Alright.
Okay? Thanks. Elliott closes the door. Oliver heads back to his car and Arthur's howling begins. It's an incredibly sad and desperate howl. Oliver gets to his car, the howling doesn't stop, Oliver can't ignore it. Oliver get's out of the car, heads back to house to get Arthur.
He remembers me. It's true, Oliver's surprised.
Oliver rings her buzzer, no answers, a stranger leaves the building and he catches the door before it close, he enters.
Hey.
Hey. Look I'm so sorry... But I'm, I'm at your front door. I'm in New York. Anna, still in bed, sits up and feels something.
I'm in Los Angeles. Oliver's flabbergasted she's not behind the door.
You, you're in LA? Anna laughs, but is touched.
You said you were coming here?!
Yeah, but I didn't leave.
Fuck. I'm in your building. Anna laughs.
Okay. See the window? Near the radiator? Oliver looks around and sees the radiator - goes to look.
There is a hide-a-key behind it.
Okay, I'm inside. Wow, there's like nothing here.
No. Oliver moves forward into the kitchen.
This is my kitchen. It's where I eat. Oliver follows her tour, while she's not there, it's strangely intimate.
This is my bathroom. It's very fancy. The bare, poor bathroom is not fancy.
Outside my window...
... That's my neighbor's roof. The room at the end is my bedroom...
That's my closet. Those are my clothes and my pictures. There is a single rack holding up some clothes. Her pictures are taped to the wall. Oliver sits on her bed.
Why do you leave everyone? Why did you let me go? Oliver thinks for a moment.
Maybe because I, I don't really believe that it's gonna work. And then I make sure it doesn't work.
Isn't Juan's hair wonderful.
Thanks. I use this great mousse.
Well it's terrific.
Do you wanna try some? Hal turns shy and young.
Oh, no.
Just a little bit?
I don't think so.
Come on. Just try a little bit. It'll be fun.
Yeah.
How do you do it?
Okay, I'm going to show you how. Juan steps away and grabs his mousse, puts a little in his hand and sits back down on Hal's bed. He begins to spread it gently through wisps of Hal's white hair. Oliver watches Hal close his eyes, and deeply enjoy this simple affection and camaraderie with another gay man.
There.
Is that it? Hal looks into camera which is Oliver's POV.
How do I look? Oliver's filled with love, happiness, regret.
Great. You look great.
Oliver. He's gone. Oliver gets up. He can now see to the hospital bed, Hal's lifeless profile. Oliver is lost. Oliver goes to Hal, puts his head on his chest and cries.
Once you make the call, you have less than an hour before two men come and place the body into a bag.
They charge 1485 Dollars for cremation and deliver the remains in a small metal container, the size of a jar of peanut butter. You will need to get a death certificate.
You will need to make copies and send them to cancel every credit card, phone account, utility, gym membership, every insurance policy, mortgage, to settle their taxes.
You will have all their mail forwarded to your address. You will write their obituary. You run it with a photo in the paper for two dollars a word. You will wonder if it's right. You'll throw a lot of their stuff away. You'll bring a lot of their stuff to your house. This is the photo my mother kept in her bedroom.
When I was a kid I thought that was my arm giving her daisies. Now I make a new mistake and think it's her arm giving me the daisies, saying, here, here's simple and happy. That's what I meant to give you.
Hey.
Hey.
Arthur... Oliver picks him up, he gets all of Arthur's stuff, he's a little cold to Andy.
Thank you... Thanks.
It's cause I'm gay, isn't it? Oliver stops and looks back.
What?
You never called or came to see me? Oliver falters, not know how to say it, then...
No. No, it's because my father loved you so much. This hits Andy hard. Oliver turns to leave but can't. He turns back, goes to Andy and they hug.
Arthur... hey. Hey, how've you been?
Hey. She's a bit tentative, but she's here and happy.
Hey.
Come in, come in. Arthur runs up and Anna bends down to greet him. They missed each other. Anna walks in and Oliver follows.
The living room. She heads to the dinning room.
Dining room... Oliver laughs nervously. In the dining room, Hal's old boxes are still stacked along the walls. Oliver leans forward and pulls something out of a box. She looks at a personal ad application, with the picture of Hal in the open jean jacket we saw at the beginning of the film.
Oh. Crazy picture...
Yeah.
Can I read it?
Sure.
I'm looking for sex with the hope it turns into friendship or a relationship. But I don't insist on monogamy.
We see REPEAT SHOTS of Hal, and in every shot he's looking at camera. Hal telling Oliver he's gay, Hal napping with Andy and waving at Oliver, Hal after Juan put in his hair mousse looking at Oliver, Hal showing Oliver his radiation tatoo...
I'm an old senior guy, 78, but I'm attractive and horny. I'm an art historian, now retired. MORE REPEAT SHOTS: Hal with Andy at the L.A. Pride picnic, Hal playing with Arthur on his couch.
And in addition to art, I like houses, gardens, parties, and walking with my Jack Russell. I'm 5'11", 160 pounds. I'm trim, gray hair, blue eyes, hairy cheest.
Chest...
I like giving and getting rubdowns and then going into mutual soft stuff. They both smile.
I have a nice house with food, drinks, friends and me. If you are willing to try an older guy, let's meet and see what happens. She looks at the photo again.
He didn't give up. They look at each other, more vulnerable and willing than we've seen them.
What happens now?
I don't know.
How does that work? They look at each other, they smile.
