The key to allowing the audience to enjoy this human connection at the heart of the film is that one actor will play the six individuals. The feeling will be of the endless, glorious playing and replaying of the simple drama of being alive. We end the film with a present-day hero, but by that time we will be seeing this modern man in an entirely fresh light, feeling his kinship with the caveman and the slave and the others who have gone before. The resolution of his contemporary story is theirs also. By then perhaps, we will be able to see ourselves in this novel perspec- tive, too.
Hector is a family man. He and his woman and two children live near the ocean in a sheltered fold on a hillside, a shallow cave given protection at its entrance by a covering of branches and brush. Just inside a small fire smoulders permanently, a few times a day encouraged into life for cooking or warmth. If it ever went out it would be a catastrophe, so it remains a smouldering com- fort and a constant preoccupation for the whole family. Hector doesn't know that his name is Hector. It is simply a convenience to help us tell his story. The idea of individual names is an imaginative leap that has not yet been made by mankind when we first meet him. Hector is living out his life 4000 years before the birth of Christ, in a reasonably temperate zone of the planet. In his entire life Hector will traverse no more than ten square miles of it.
FIRST IMAGE is the reflection of Hector's face in a rock pool. The image suddenly fragments. Hector is enjoying himself, deflecting his stream of pee now and then so that his image reforms itself and then is disrupted again. When he is finished, a trace of vanity makes him bend down closer to his reflection. He strokes his long hair and fingers a blemish on his cheek. Then he is aware of another presence. He sharply turns. Some way off a solitary figure stands on the rise of some rocks, not afraid to show itself. Hector calls out. HECTOR Go back home... leave me alone...
Hector is arguing with his son, just outside their cave. The Boy wants to go foraging with him again.
No... stay here... stay! Hector takes a few steps.    The Boy follows.
No... go back... go away...
Leave me alone! Stay here... Stay!
Up the hill! DEIRDRE No, down onto the other beach. The little ones can't take the hill. Neither can I.
Up the hill! They're down there already. I saw them!
You're wrong! She runs off down the slope. Hector has no choice but to follow her, herding the children in front of him.
Come back, Dada...
Don't move from here. I'll come for you in the morning. There's no food. Try and sleep in the branches. Don't cry. Don't make a noise. Hector moves off, looking back to his children in the tree.  They too gaze anxiously at him. They don't wave. Maybe waving hasn't been invented yet. Hector heads off alone, higher into the hills.
RAIDER It's too cold to spend all night up there. We've got a fire at the beach. Food, too.
RAIDER Come on! Your mother's down there. She's happy... she's warm, too... and full... she wants to see you... she sent me...
What he sees disturbs him, but for odd reasons. His family appear to be happily integrated with the Raiders. His two children have become fast friends with the man who coaxed them from the tree. His woman is with a larger group closer to the fire. They are playfully attempting to communicate with her, and although still a little timid, she is smiling. There is no hint of bar-         * barity, rape or abuse. That was not the intention of the Raiders. To them, a fertile woman and two healthy children are as gold will be to plunderers of later ages. For their part, the family have to accept the situation. Food and shelter are the best that life can offer.
I told you! I knew they did it around here! Ask him... The Leader moves closer to Hector and talks to him in a friendly, reasoning tone.
What do we do? Do we throw you over, is that the idea? Hector doesn't understand.    He looks at him blankly. LEADER He wants me to throw you over. What does it do? Does it help the sun? Should I throw you over? The Leader tries to help Hector understand by miming the act of throwing him off the cliff. Hector doesn't know how to respond. PRIEST I tell you, it's one man, one stone. It'll help the voyage. The Leader is unsure. He walks around the pile of stones, checking it out from all sides as if it was some infernal machine that he didn't know the workings of. He squats down and squints through it to the watery sun emerging from the clouds far out to sea. He looks across to Hector, now sitting on the grass. The Leader sits down beside him. They sit together like friends. The ageless intimacy of sacrificer and victim.
What's it got to do with the sun? PRIEST I don't know, yet.
It's meaningless, without him going over the cliff.
Off you go.   We don't want you. He turns from Hector   and moves on. Hector persists in following them. They    are his only connection now with anything that thinks   or feels in the world. His link with them is all that   is left. Again and again the Leader stops to shoo   Hector away, but Hector dumbly tags along behind.
I'm going to the cool room.
Hector walks a pace behind Lucinnius through various chambers of the bathhouse, passing the games area and the massage room as they go. All around them slaves attend to their pampered masters.
Two mice... and some bread...
No mice. HECTOR Two chicken legs, then, cold, and the bread. As Hector is given the food and pays for it, he sees another man, JULIAN, approach Lucinnius, trailed by TWO SLAVES. One of them is carrying a folding chair much more substantial than Lucinnius's. Julian and Lucinnius greet one another and sit down to talk, Lucinnius at something of a height disadvantage. The Two Slaves move off to one side. Lucinnius's mood has brightened since the arrival of his friend. Their conversation seems open and friendly. Hector gives his master his food, and then moves to join the Two Slaves, hearing a snatch of the conversation as he goes.
Of course you're free to call at my house at anytime, but I was receiving Nepos... how could I admit you? Hector offers to share his bread with the other Two Slaves. They easily fall into conversation, inevitably, about their masters.
Spoiled his day, meeting your man... he's been avoiding him all week.
His ships have gone too, we heard. 
When did you hear? SLAVE #2 Last night. Nepos knew. Pirates. They're sunk, he reckons. That could finish him, eh? HECTOR This is the worst it's been.                           * SLAVE #1 You'll be up for sale before you know it!
HECTOR He's finished... you reckon? The other two nod their heads. SLAVE #1 Yes... at the baths... I could tell... they smelled blood...
Well... if he'd pulled it off he'd be in Rome by now... SLAVE #1 And you with him... Hector nods his head thoughtfully.
And me with him... half way home...
Will he lend you the money? LUCINNIUS He was honest about it. He said so, plain and simple. No. HECTOR That's a problem.
When we get home I want you to get some chickens... and fetch Hermas, the diviner. HECTOR Yes.
Are my ships from Sicily still afloat...?
No, no... offer the grain first... sprinkle it on the altar... Lucinnius obeys.
... and we can't ask the Gods specific questions like that... it's a gentle, probing enquiry... general questions... but let's see. He cuts into the chicken liver and prods around the in- side. The other two wait in silence. HERMAS General answer... no... LUCINNIUS What do you mean? HERMAS I mean, no.   The liver says no...
LUCINNIUS Do it again... I want you to do it again... Is it the Gods' will...                   * that Cyprian... be well disposed                   * towards me... in the future?                       *
If you want to do it  again, you need another chicken  and another fifteen sesterces...  and I'd like the first fifteen now  please. Hector looks a Lucinnius, who nods reluctantly. Hector opens his purse and counts out the coins for Hermas.
Cyprian loaned me half a million to fit out these ships... I'm                           * finished. Just when things were going well... I had plans for you too, Hector... in four or five years I was going to make you a free man... and then in ten years                       * you'd be a citizen... you... you                        * could've found your family... brought them here... everything...
EMPTY_LINE
I missed you last night. It is Thalia. We can tell that they are close.      Hector sits down beside her.
He kept me working until morning.
What's happening? 
She doesn't like him. HECTOR Nobody does. He's unfortunate. You get people like that. Clumsy and sad. Thalia looks out towards the sea.
Why does the thunder always stay out on the ocean? Hector puts an arm around Thalia. At first it feels                 * strange, their physical intimacy alongside their matter- of-fact conversation, but gradually we understand it, the giving and taking of comfort where it can be found, and the realness of their friendship. Their stroking and touching and holding becomes good to watch. We get a feeling for what they have given one another, in stolen hours and half hours, up here on the roof, the only place where they can be themselves. HECTOR It's the Gods arguing. They're working out what to do with Lucinnius... he'll be lying awake down there... wondering what they're saying about him.
If he goes down I'll ask for my freedom... he owes it to me... he said as much... you too... we could be free...
Then what? HECTOR What we talk about.
It's what you talk about. HECTOR We talk about it because it can                          * never happen. What we do is you                          * and me... THALIA I don't understand. I think you'll leave. You're going to leave me here.
Never. It's you and me now. That's all. THALIA Well.   We stay here.   He'll survive.                   * Hector is silent, still kissing her.      He yawns as he              * speaks.
Then I can see you every night. I'm tired.
I can't sleep. Get me a chicken. I want to make another sacrifice. We'll do it ourselves.
Can't you find a woman, Hector... Hector smiles. He isn't surprised to see them. They are only doing what he and Thalia do on the roof. The Slaves have their meeting places scattered all over the house. HECTOR Sorry to trouble you... just fetching a chicken... good night ... the roof's free... The Man shakes his head with a smile. Hector leaves, the sleepy chicken going to meet her fate in his arms. HECTOR Come on, miss, you can tell Lucinnius his future.
You look happier.
Relieved anyway... relieved that it's over at last. Lucinnius strides out of the courtyard with Hector following after him.
Will he help you?
I have to kill myself by tomorrow morning. He has all my letters to Titinius, none of them got through. He says it's like treason... and he says I should want to die for owing him half a million anyway...
What if you don't...
I'm done for, Hector... but it's strange... I feel kind of good about it... the struggle is over ... we've seen it through together, eh? HECTOR I don't know what to say.
Let's get home. We have a lot to do. Lucinnius quickens his pace. LUCINNIUS Tonight... peace at last... Lucinnius is obviously in a state of shock.
We'll do it with a knife, Hector. When everyone has gone to bed. The two of us, to the end...
I don't understand. What do you want me to do... I don't think I can help you...
We'll help each other, Hector. We must. We've been through this whole mess together... we must die together.
You say we... I don't know... what is we? I've done nothing... I                        * know nothing... Lucinnius changes his tone, becomes more, in his own mind, frank, man-to-man. LUCINNIUS Hector... at Cyprian's this morning ... I had to sign certain papers ... tell a bit of a story... HECTOR What kind of story? LUCINNIUS A confession. That we were plotting against Cyprian and the provincial senate... we were short of names... most of the people I know were in the room... people I thought were my friends... so I mentioned you... I had to... Hector is stunned with shock...
So I'm a conspirator?
Yes. So you see, I don't want you to die with me just because of my honor... it's more complicated... I'm sorry, Hector. I would be honored... if you would die with me... I mean it... Hector manages to speak.
Of course.
This is the worst it's been.
Today there is an air of distraction about Hector. Understandable, considering his scheduled death. The kitchen slaves come and go as they talk.
But even if it's round you can still fall off the edge. Hector has picked up a large metal plate to help him make his point. GALLUS No... it's not round like that... it's round like this. Gallus sees his playball.     He picks it up.
Do you believe everything that Greek tells you...?
Rome must be right in the middle... here... and we must be out here somewhere... Hector becomes more interested.
How many months did they march you here?
Seven. Gallus walks out the distance from Rome with his fingers,      * as if there is serious calculation.                            * GALLUS It must be about here.                            *
But then you'd be upside down... HECTOR I wasn't upside down... and how                   * could you see the sun round there ... I saw the sun at home... every day... Gallus is stumped for answers.                                 *
I'll ask him tomorrow...                          * Hector remembers that he and the boy's father are              * supposed to die that night. He looks on Gallus with a          * new tenderness. HECTOR Yes, tell me tomorrow... I'd like to know... because my children are round there and I want to know that they're getting the sun... ask him something else, too... where are the gods if the whole thing is round?
I think I know that... they're out here, and all around... that's how they can look down and see everything...
If he eats the grain it means yes.
It's saying yes... there's a way...
No, it's saying yes, we should die.
But you asked it if we had to die, or if there was another way... it's saying yes, there is... LUCINNIUS No, it's saying yes, we should die. The bird is certainly enjoying his food. HECTOR Maybe it's just hungry... The chicken is inscrutable, as they are prone to be. A dead chicken adorns Lucinnius's table. He and his wife, DALMIA, and their son are lying on their couches picking at the food with their fingers. Lucinnius is drinking more wine than usual. Hector and the other household slaves are in attendance. Thalia is also there, serving her mistress. Dalmia knows something is up, but she doesn't know what. She attempts to break the silence. She calls on the cook from the kitchen. DALMIA Solus!
Solus... I'm eating chicken again. I ate chicken yesterday and the day before... will I be eating chicken again tomorrow? Why am I always eating chicken?
It's what we have to hand in the kitchen, ma'am... I always try to use the fresh stuff... the chickens have just been turning up... He looks again at Lucinnius and Hector. They look at each other. Thalia looks at Hector. Dalmia looks at them all looking at each other, more intrigued than she was before.
Two men have come to see you. From Cyprian. Lucinnius and Hector look at each other and share a moment of hope. They might be coming with good news, perhaps a softening of Cyprian's heart.
Good evening, Lucinnius. Cyprian asked us if we could be of any                      * assistance... in the business that you have to conduct tonight... to make that business as...                            * comfortable... as you could wish... Lucinnius sighs, as his last hope expires.
Thank you, gentlemen... But I feel that I will be capable of taking care of my affairs tonight without your help... Thank Cyprian for his kind thought... The heavies metaphorically keep their foot in the door.
Thank you.   Good night. VISITOR We'll call in the morning at any rate... just to make sure. LUCINNIUS Thank you.
... or go in from the back... any place he'll let you... We leave Hector nodding obediently as this weirdest of coaching lessons continues.
Getting it out's not as easy as you might think... you have to twist a bit... to get over the stickiness...
Eight hundred sesterces... cash ... that's all that's left... what a failure... my father left me three farms and forty thousand...
Nothing else to be done.    Don't you want some wine? HECTOR No... but I want something... LUCINNIUS What is it? HECTOR I want to die a free man... I don't want to die a slave...
Very well...
Well... freed man, let's do it.                         *
What do you want me to do? LUCINNIUS Nothing... I mean, not to me... I have to do it first... you understand that... and then you... if I don't succeed... then you must help me... HECTOR I understand. LUCINNIUS No point in messing up the room. Let's go downstairs.
Oh, that hurts, that stings! Lucinnius sits back on the step of the washing pool, holding his stomach. Hector sits down beside him. They both look down at the blade, still in Lucinnius' body. LUCINNIUS This is hopeless.
Help me, Hector... HECTOR You've done it... you've done it ... lie down... Hector speaks gently, like coaxing a frightened animal. He helps Lucinnius lie out on the marble floor. HECTOR Close your eyes... you did it... LUCINNIUS Thank you, thank you. The movement has increased the spread of blood over Lucinnius' clothing. He raises his head. LUCINNIUS You do it now, Hector... hurry...
Lie still... lie still...
Do it Hector... do it... you promised... It looks as if Hector is playing for time.
Shush... I'll need the knife... 
Do it, Hector... do it... do it... Hector has the knife in his hand, but still he waits, looking at Lucinnius, willing the last dregs of life from him. LUCINNIUS Do it... do it... do it... The whispers fade to a croak. Lucinnius lies still. Hector has won this final battle of wills. He stands    up, suddenly repulsed by what has happened. But quickly    he gathers his wits. He makes his decision. He throws     the knife down. It clatters along the hard shiny floor. Hector has run out of the room before it has come to    rest against the wall.
I'm leaving... come now if you want to... but we must hurry... I'm a free man... I'm free. Will you come?
I have some mail for Tyre... where are the east-bound ships? WATCHMAN Ask at the harbor.                                     * With an authoritative nod, Hector strides off in the direction of the noise and lights, Thalia at his heels. Hector talks when the Watchman is out of earshot. HECTOR We want a timber ship... they go west... straight to Rome...
And then?   Then you go home?                          * Hector hurries on, noncommittal in his reply.
You can go to anywhere from Rome.
Where is the Captain?
Good morning, Captain... I'm looking for passage to Rome, for both of us...
And who might you be? HECTOR I'm the steward of Lucinnius the merchant... we have business in Rome... I need an immediate passage... CAPTAIN It's five or six days... to                        * Brundisium... you can walk or ride from there... you have money? HECTOR Of course. CAPTAIN Well, let's see... passage for two... food for two... six days... what were you thinking of offering? HECTOR When do you leave? CAPTAIN Anxious to leave, are you? HECTOR Keen to start, yes.
Captain says to come on deck. Hector wakes Thalia and they clamber out of the darkness of the hold onto the brightest, freshest of days at sea.
Where's the land gone? Hector, too, is taken by the novelty of it all but is less prepared to admit it. He waves his hands around the empty horizon noncommittally. THALIA Have you been on a ship before?
Yes, of course. We can tell he is lying. THALIA Me, too, but they kept us down there. She points down into the lower depths of the hold.   Then she gets even more excited.
Tonight... we'll be where the thunder is! They look at each other and then all around them. The freshness of the day and on an overwhelming feeling of freedom, exhilarate them. Their senses and their feelings, are in new territory. They are like children in a brand-new world. The Captain on the other side of the ship, beckons them.         *
Thought you would like to see them.
Your master's ships... going home... 
She's already received the last rites, before she left her family. She belongs to God now... Don't you?                    *
Fortunate child, destined for paradise. Untouched by the abiding curse of carnal lust.   I struggle against it...  
... I will carry my unspilt seed from this world to the next... as should every man...
... If all men forsook forever the fleshy temptations... and held womankind to barrenness... think how much the sooner would come the day of judgement... all God's chosen gathered in paradise... I've               * written a small treatise in favor                 * of virginity, sister. We could                    * discuss it later if you like...                   *
DRIVER What are you talking about? Hector gestures to Beatrice that he is leaving the wagon to walk for a while and asks her to join him. She shakes her head with a smile. Hector smiles, too, then jumps down from the wagon and, walking slowly, allows it to gain ground in front of him. The ramblings of the Priest fade away.
It's simple, brother... if we cease carnal union entirely then in fifty or so years we'll all be rid of our earthly lives and God can proceed with His reign over His heavenly kingdom... that same paradise that God gave to man before, but which man was so unfit to inhabit that within seven hours Eve was already tempting her master and mate, and within nine hours the Lord had to expel the both of them! Just think, they                    * messed it up in nine hours!                       *
A bit cold... walking... She smiles at him. He sits opposite her in the wagon, and allows his foot to touch hers. She doesn't move away. Hector calls to the Driver. HECTOR How long to get there?
When it gets dark, we'll be there.                   *
I don't know what you're saying... I haven't understood anything you've said all day...
I don't know what you're saying...
BEATRICE I don't know what you're saying. HECTOR I don't understand. Beside Hector the Girl has stopped sobbing but she is still troubled. She turns to him and speaks quietly but with determination. GIRL I want to go home to my mother. Hector doesn't know how to respond. He can do nothing               * to help her, and anyway, is more interested in Beatrice.            *
God, I'm starving. Do you think I dare heat that up on the fire?
PRIEST No... I'll eat it cold... I deserve to suffer.
Have some wine.
I saw some fighting today... back up the road...
So, the mad knights are at it again... what were they, Swiss or English?
I don't know.    They all look the same to me. PRIEST It might help us get through... if there's a bit of confusion... we'll still travel separately though, for now. The Priest changes his tone of voice, mocking his own holy act. PRIEST But, Hector, you must keep out of the way of temptation... I saw the way you were eyeing up that widow... now stay away from that... although she is beautiful, is she not... but we're going home, remember. Hector is smiling.
How do you know she's a widow? PRIEST Look at her eyes... hungry eyes... she could lead you into trouble... she smells like paradise, though. He changes his tone yet again.       He talks straight.
You're not a sinning fellow, remember... another month and we'll be at the channel, then home... the little ones you only talk about when you're drunk... don't forget them... Hector still remains silent.        The Priest is worried.
Why do I always talk so much... you weren't even thinking of her 'til I opened my mouth... but I trust you... don't worry. I know you wouldn't do anything to anger your God, or me. Get me some bread. Hector obeys the Priest without thought.        The Priest is           * happier now that he is in control again. PRIEST Who saved your neck in Venice? HECTOR You did, Ronald.
And don't you forget it.
May the Lord forgive us our sins, those we have committed and those we as yet only dream of. She's a glory of a woman.
Hostages, too, they've got... they only take the rich ones... He turns to the forlorn Girl. PEDLAR Have you ever seen so many fine, rich men, my girl? Hector talks to the company, but means his words for the Priest.
I won't be travelling today.
The fighting's behind us, brother ... you'll be safe enough. Hector shakes his head, catching Beatrice's eye.
I'll stay. PRIEST You should go.
Must be sore in there.   Is it your dada? The Squire looks at him and nods his head.       Hector looks        * with sympathy at the boy.                                            *
If he's got a little head it might be alright. Has your dada got a big head?
Is there a blacksmith here? Where's the smith? FARM WOMAN In the village, sir, half a day away. The Officer looks at the moaning suit of armor, then at the astonished group of Travellers. He picks on the Priest. OFFICER You, Priest, come here... get to work on him... he's not ready for heaven yet... there's a hundred thousand livres on his head if I get him to Paris alive... Start                         * praying... there's fifteen livres in it for you if he lives...
Their movements are a strange cross between parade ground drill and battle training. To the BEAT of DRUMS they perform rhythmic, hypnotic movements, repeating the same pattern over and over again. A deadly dance, thrusting their pikes in unison. They become like one evil, inhuman machine. It is mesmerizing to watch, all the                * more so in relation to the coy seduction scene that Hector and Beatrice are acting out. They have the problem of not sharing a language, but, resourceful as lovers are, they soon employ this as another titillating element in their love-play.
I think you know what I'm saying ... a little...
I don't want your word for home, I want you to say mine... home... home... BEATRICE Come on, you can do it... home... home... Beatrice has her way, turning the tables on Hector.    He says it in her language.
Home... home... Beatrice smiles. In this tiny victory the dynamic of their relationship is set. BEATRICE That's it... clever boy!
Tick... it's a tick. HECTOR Flea... a flea... thanks.
EMPTY_LINE
Why don't we go somewhere and have a good session... I could do you... I'd like to give you a good grooming... They understand each other perfectly now.         They look around for a more private spot.
How is he? PRIEST Sleeping now... at peace, for the moment. OFFICER Leave him for a while. There are                            * a few souls out here you can help on their way to heaven. Ten sous                            * a soul to you... come on.
Twenty sous is normal.    How many                          * are there?                                                  *
That's four.
Yes, it does feel good. She gives his scalp a final delicious rub, and then stops.
You can do me now. Beatrice loosens her clothing to bare her neck and shoulders. Hector begins to probe her hair and scalp.            * She arches her back under the first touch of his fingers. Hector laps it up, inspired to caress ever more tenderly         * her scalp and neck, still with the outward purpose of looking for fleas. HECTOR Got one... a tiny little one... yours are so small... and fair...                      * To Hector even her fleas are a delight. He seems to want         * to keep it as a pet. There is no hope for this man.              * Beatrice moans softly, happily. Hector still kneading            * her scalp. HECTOR I don't know your name. I'm Hector... who are you? I'm Hector. Beatrice replies with a hint of breathlessness.
Hector... yes... I'm Beatrice...
Beatrice. BEATRICE Yes. Hector... I think you'll have to do under my arms... I'm a little itchy there... 
Maybe we should find the river, and have a proper wash... In between parting the hairs on her scalp Hector is kiss- ing her on the neck now. At first it is small, snatched kisses amongst the grooming, but soon the kisses become longer and the grooming less.
I'm still itchy lots of places, Hector.
Goodbye, little girl... the Lord will bless you, I know, in his house. He talks to the Nun as they move off.
How long for you on the road?
Three or four days. PRIEST Good luck to you.
They're not killing nuns, yet.
The Saxon, won't he go with you? 
My name is Peter... don't forget ... tell everybody that was my name... Peter... Ronald is mumbling his prayers. PRIEST Lie still, Peter...
That's it, Peter... tell everybody ... write it... don't forget it... Peter... tell them Peter died here ... my name is Peter... Peter... say it again.
PRIEST Peter...
The Priest is troubled, suspicious, but he doesn't know why. He sniffs again, in the general direction of Beatrice. The mingled smells that his sensitive nose detects perplex him, but he settles down, pulling his           * cloak over his head.
Good morning. Hector and Beatrice look at each other. The Priest looks at them in turn. Their cheeky act of innocence mocks him.
Hector is in a cheerful mood, pleased with himself and his success with Beatrice. The Priest is sullen, reproachful. HECTOR You're a busy man, what with all these souls departing. PRIEST There's nothing wrong with helping someone to die in peace. They want me to go with them. HECTOR Nothing at all. PRIEST Are you staying here?
Moving on, as you told me to... we'll meet up, like you said. I'll wait for you at the channel. PRIEST She'll do you harm. I told    you. She might be a witch. Wait    for me. I still have the money     from Venice. We can be home in    a month. HECTOR Witch my arse. Stop giving me orders. Both of them are unhappy now, confusing one another, spoiling their friendship. HECTOR You're a strange fellow. Are you a priest? Are you jealous?
We're moving soon, Father. 
So, you're leaving?
You have work to do here. The Priest walks back up to the farm. Hector calls out              * what might be an attempt at an apology or simply another            * taunt. HECTOR I don't understand you.
EMPTY_LINE
Why do you smell so wonderful? He lifts his head to let her see him sniffing.                     *
Oh, you like my smell, do you? I make it from the flowers. I put                       * it here, and there, and there. Hector kisses her more. She smiles and turns her head to the sky. Then she starts to giggle.
I don't believe it... someone's watching us, the dirty devil... don't look... he's down by the water, by the rocks... Hector doesn't understand, and keeps on with his kissing. Only her persistent giggling makes him stop and look up.           * Hector sees him too. Down by the stream a head peering over the top of a rock, not even attempting to hide. BEATRICE Cheeky devil.
He's not moving. He must've seen us, though. She sits up and straightens her clothing, suddenly anxious.
Don't look at him anymore. Let's go... down the other side of the hill.
Come on, we're going that way at any rate. They move cautiously. When they are closer to it, and                 * can see it for what is is, they walk straight for the dead body.
No sign of a battle... only a few horses... or just one. He wasn't killed in a fight. BEATRICE Poor boy. Isn't he fine-looking. Look at his shoes. There is a sadness about this young death in such a lonely place. Hector and Beatrice are open to this sad-               * ness, but in their age sentiment was of a tougher strain. BEATRICE We'll cover his eyes at least... so the crows don't get him. Look at these shoes, though.
His feet are like mine, you know. I'll give you mine, poor boy, and I'll have yours. I have more walking to do.
It's not stealing if I give him mine, is it? Hector watches as Beatrice exchanges her old shoes for the squire's. They fit her well, and she proudly shows them off to Hector. He smiles at her.
You've put magic in this stuff, haven't you, you're bewitching me... They appear to get the gist of one another's love talk.
That should help him a little.
We should go now. We've been here too long. BEATRICE I wonder if his mama will ever know what happened.
You said mama. I know what that is... mama... We can talk the same...
Mama... that's right... mama...
Yes, of course... we stay on this side of the river, all the way down... until tomorrow... HECTOR I stay on this side...
Yes... On this side. Then the other. They move off, each thinking that they have reached agreement. Beatrice starts to sing as they make a                * gentle descent into the forests below.
I think we're going the wrong way. I want the sun on my back. We should have stayed on the other side.
Here we are... home... you want some food... and then I'll show you everything. We have a spring ... you can wash... Hector stands looking around the small dark room. Beatrice suddenly seems shy and awkward.
This is when I wish you could understand me. You'll have to learn, you know... I want you to stay here. You want to, don't you?
I look after the hens, and I make                       * dyes from the plants, and perfumes too. I'm good at that. But I'm                          * no good with the sheep and the goats. I wish you could understand... Arnaud's been dead two years...                                            *
I still have his clothes.   I'll make them fit you...
What did he die of?                                    * BEATRICE I'm getting shy. Imagine me being shy with you... I made this for him... tonight we'll try them on. You're the same height as Arnaud, but a little thinner. I'll make them fit. I'm a good sewer. And we have a big bed upstairs for you and me, in the rafters... You and me... sleep... Hector is beginning to understand what she means, but he keeps his feelings to himself. Beatrice talks on. Now that she has started, she wants to say it all.
I like you. You like me too, don't you? We were lucky to meet the way we did. All the men around here are old.                                          * Beatrice falls silent, overtaken     by her shyness. Hector understands fully what she means     now, but his mind is a confusion. He can't respond.       She tries to direct his thoughts to the one area she is     sure about. BEATRICE Come up and I'll show you the bed... She climbs a   ladder nearby and lifts open a trapdoor on the wooden   ceiling. Hector climbs up to join her and together they   stand on the ladder with their heads poking into the tiny   space above.
A good bed, eh? For you and me. We can have fun up here... better than a ditch...
BOY Mama, are you home?
GIRL You were gone a long time.   Who's this? The Girl eyes Hector up and down. BEATRICE This is Hector. Beatrice pronounces his name with care.      She stands proudly by her children.
These are my children...
... and this is my mother....
So... you found one, eh?
Take Hector to the well... but come here first.
HECTOR No, no... sit down... I just came to watch... please... sit... He guides the Mother back to the good chair. They struggle comically for a while, but eventually she allows Hector to settle her there. She mumbles unhappily.
You must sit there... look... you need the light from the window... it's your seat... I don't want it... it's yours... I can sit on the box. The old woman   allows herself a shy smile. Whether in innocence or   mischief, she has secured the best seat in the house for   herself. If he stays, Hector will never dare rest his   bones in it.
Hector takes in   what the Boy is doing and joins in the work. The    Boy smiles at Hector's initial clumsiness. He motions for   Hector to have a sniff of the jar of liquid. Hector    does so.  The smell is heady and pleasant.
Ah... The Boy says something and points towards his sister. She stands by her cauldron, stirring the bubbling liquid. Hector goes to watch her work. He looks in the cauldron. HECTOR Good color... for cloth?
Peepee? The Girl nods enthusiastically.      The Boy is sniggering.
Take a walk to the village if you want... you look as if you need a walk...
I have to go... have to keep the sun on my back... I have to get home... I have a family, just like you... I like you... you                             * smell good... wonderful...
I had a wonderful dream. I was                       * lying under a tree, beside a river. I was dozing. I heard the water... beautiful clear water. I got up and drank some. I think I ate some                   * raspberries too.
I would like some water. Hector looks around him at the squalid mass of distressed humanity. HECTOR                                 * God, this is the worst, the worst.                   *
Let me keep him... they said we'll find land in a day or so... you're evil... MAN When they're dead they go over the side... The place stinks enough as it is...
Do you think I'll still see Europe? HECTOR I think there's more chance of me eating you, Andre. 
It's full of Africans too.
Soon the survivors are dragging their possessions from the raft. They have managed to hoard a surprising amount from their doomed ship. Carpets, chests, chairs, all are dragged ashore.
Two parties of ten men each... one to the north and one to the south... bring back what you can... game, fruit, anything... and send someone back as soon as you find fresh water. Any trouble, discharge three shots.
I have a carpet and some cloth... I thought if we worked together we could make a better shelter... Francisco barely stops his work to reply. FRANCISCO If it's a joke it's a poor one.                        * HECTOR At least ask Dona Ursula...
I don't have to ask her... I know she would agree with me... leave us alone. His stubborn rejection of Hector reveals just how strong their friendship once was.
Well... would you take my cloth, at least?
Keep it and build your own hovel somewhere else... leave us alone...!
They ran off with the dry bread...                     * about eight of them, sir...                            * Dom Paulo looks at the two prisoners. DOM PAULO You men are deserters. You will die tomorrow. He speaks again to the Sailor. DOM PAULO Chain them on the raft for tonight, and watch them... Francisco steps forward, outraged.
I must object... these sentences can't be lawful...
Do you think so?
Of course... we can't allow ourselves to fall into terror and violence...
You're right... but then how can we punish them? We can't lock them up...
You were right the first time, sir... they must hang... they were stealing the bread from our mouths... The captured Deserters look on helplessly as their lives are argued over.
I didn't steal any bread... Gomes had the bread... he's off, in the forest...
Oh dear... Dom Paulo turns to the Priest. DOM PAULO What do you think, Father? The Priest throws open his arms noncommittally. PRIEST I'll comfort them whether they live or die, now or later, any of you, all of you... I'll comfort you all. SALGADO Hang them... you have to set an example...
So I was right the first time?
No, sir... there must be proper justice... DOM PAULO What's proper justice?                                *
I didn't steal any bread... 
It was Gomes... he told us to run.
I'll decide... no I won't... we'll all decide... most of the people that matter are here... we'll have a vote... who agrees with Salgado... and me... that they should die? A lot of hands go up. Hector hesitates, his instincts are not for killing. But the force of the majority weighs on him. He starts to raise his hand. At that moment, as he scans the crowd, he meets the eyes of the Deserter whose death they are voting on. For a moment they communicate. Hector is thrown. He drops his hand, only to find in the next instant the stern gaze of Salgado on him. He hesitates again, then starts to raise his hand. Then the eyes of the Deserter find him once more. This comic pantomime goes on while a solid majority of the crowd firmly raise their hands. DOM PAULO ... and those against death...
You can't vote...
Can he? SALGADO It doesn't matter.
I don't think this is working, Dom Paulo... we need authority... you must decide... Dom Paulo thinks.
Very well... Da Cunha? 
The cross the carpenter is working on... tell him to turn it into a scaffold... have it erected along the beach, away from the women... the executions will be at sunrise tomorrow. Tell Father Diogo.
Take them to the raft.
I'll do it, Dom Paulo.
Thank you, Alvarez. Sunrise tomorrow. Send the Priest to them tonight.
Good work, Andre.
You go and sleep by the big fire, Andre. Keep warm.
Senor Hector? Hector quickly stows his food back into his sack, and with a grunt of irritation sticks his head out of the shelter.
This was all they found in the forest. Four for each of us. They taste kind of milky, but sour.
Thank you, Nuno. NUNO My mother ate three and she was sick. So try two... but she's sick anyway... maybe you can try three...
Hector, will you help me?
Lopo... the boy they're going to hang tomorrow... he was cook's cabin boy... I was going to take                       * him something to eat... I thought, perhaps, one of yours and one of mine... He looks at the fruit he has just given Hector. NUNO You said you might just eat two... HECTOR But there's tomorrow, Nuno... we must eat tomorrow too...
Dom Paulo would call it a waste. You must keep yourself strong, Nuno, that's what he'd say... so that you can help the others... God knows what we have ahead of us... we'll need strong people like you... Nuno is silent, unconvinced.
Try not to think about Lopo any more... The guards wouldn't let you near him anyway.
Goodnight!
DA CUNHA Some gunpowder would scatter them, sir. DOM PAULO No, they might want to be friendly... they'll have food too... get one of our African slaves... we must try and talk to them... If they think we're timid we're dead.
I hate it when people have to die.                      * FRANCISCO It's foolishness. Killing our own men when we have the whole of Africa to face. HECTOR It's foolish squabbling at all. We should be friends. Francisco looks at him for the meaning in what he is saying. Hector shrugs. He takes a small bundle from his jacket and gives it to Francisco. FRANCISCO What's this?
Some bread and raisins.
I thought everything was shared out on the raft...
Well this wasn't. It's for her... and you. Francisco looks Hector straight  in the eye, looking for his angle. But this time there   is none. Hector is simply a lonely man seeking to  retrieve lost friendship. There is a glimmer of sympathy  in Francisco's face. 
I must speak to her!
They want to make a visit here... with their King... he will bring gifts, and will receive gifts. They said not to sacrifice anymore                     * men for them... they don't like that... Dom Paulo and the others laugh.
The whole of the camp is eager and shouting. They bring             * in the boxes and barrels. A whole harmonium is man- handled ashore. Some boys drag it up onto dry sand and start to work its bellows. At first only water spurts from it, but then a watery note or two is emitted. The mood soon becomes festive. Dom Paulo makes his way down             * to the shore to make the celebrations official.                     * By now the first of the newly-arrived crates are being opened. Inside are eggs, many, many large eggs, in crate after crate. An OFFICER brings the first of the eggs to Dom Paulo.
Turtles' eggs, sir... Doctor Correa was shipping them to the Royal Zoo... I think they hoped some of them would hatch.
Well... it's eggs for supper tonight... for everyone...                             *
How are they? ANDRE Good.
HECTOR Yours were fine? ANDRE Yes.
ANDRE Good night.
The slaves only got three.    I want to ask you something.
You were lucky. What? ANDRE I want my real name back. HECTOR You don't like Andre anymore?
I think of my home all the time. I want to hear the name they call me. We should die with our real names. HECTOR We're not going to die, Andre... Hector smiles at his own insensitivity. HECTOR I've forgotten your name... ANDRE Ketabomago Pululo. HECTOR Now I remember why we called you Andre.
I will, Andre... I promise... I'll call you that... when I remember... Andre is satisfied, and leaves.      Hector calls to him.
Good night... Keta... ANDRE Ketabomago Pululo...
Yes... good night... 
Hey! Stop that, will you? Think of the older people, and the sick... I'll give you an egg if                         * you stop... here...
How many are sick? DA CUNHA About fifty, sir, some of them very sick indeed. It's the eggs. A couple of the crates were full of                     * rotten ones, but eaten just the                         * same. Others just ate too many. It would have been better to ration them, I suppose. DOM PAULO How wise of you to think of that now. Any deaths? DA CUNHA Six.
How many eggs did you have? 
I had four.   I don't feel well now...
Four's all right... the really ill ones had eaten eight, ten...
Let's not think about it... what                        * have you got?                                           *
It worked well... they'll go for this... and nails... Luis cleaned up a sackful from the crates... Salgado shows a handful of nails from a small sack in his hand. DOM PAULO Organize some men to gather all                         * the nails they can find. We have to keep control of that particular currency. Dom Paulo rummages in a box of cheap rosaries, selects a couple, and then retires to his tent. The others work on at the table. Hector drifts off down to the beach.
Stop that... leave her alone... get back to the camp... or I'll tell your mother... how can you play like this when there are people needing your help back there...? The Boy is standing now and fixing his clothing. He walks off back to the camp. The Girl remains sitting in the sand, buttoning her dress, too embarrassed even to raise her head to Hector.
Come back... I didn't mean it... it was a joke... you come back... she's still here... I won't say anything... 
Hector runs off towards the camp.
... so that he will know that you were born like real people...
Right... you four as well...
He wants to see you breathe. The King takes a deep breath, then nods to Dom Paulo. Dom Paulo and the Officers do as they are told. The King joins them, and for a few moments there is a kind of communion between them. Then everyone joins in. It is a            * strange, poignant moment, all the Natives and all the Europeans united in the simple act of breathing. Dom Paulo regains his composure.    He speaks to the Slave. DOM PAULO Tell him that we want to trade with him, to buy food... and we want him to guide us out of here... we have a long way to travel... to where the white men have their big ships... The Slave speaks to the King. The King listens and talks back for a long time. Then the Slave translates again. SLAVE He has heard of white men very,                       * very far away... this way... but you have to cross many rivers... twenty big rivers...
Tell him I want to give him these... Dom Paulo steps forward to the King. An Officer brings             * a wrapped cloth. Dom Paulo opens it, letting the King see the pieces of broken copper inside. 
Of these precious things, which my fathers and forefathers have worn for many long years before...
I shouldn't do this, but it is such a special occasion, and he is such a great and worthy King... This is translated.    The King refuses to accept the               * rosary. Instead he    is pointing to a couple of chunky and valuable-looking   rings on Dom Paulo's fingers which he has forgotten to   remove. SLAVE He says he could not accept such a treasured gift, something of such value to your family... instead he would be happy to take one or two of the old rings you have on your fingers... but please do not insist that he take your necklace... It is impossible to know if the King is being naively polite or hugely clever. Dom Paulo's Officers enjoy a muted titter as he peels off his precious rings and gives them to the King, replacing the worthless baubles around his own neck. The King begins talking again. The Slave translates.
He will give you guides to help                        * you across the first of the big rivers... it is ten days from here... 
Because with the new moon the turtles will arrive and lay their eggs... you may frighten them... you must be gone... The mention of turtles' eggs almost turns the stomachs of most of the survivors, even the fit ones. The King and his followers walk back into the forest.               * Soon the survivors are alone again, with the lost- looking cow the Natives have left. A doomed cow if ever there was.
Thanks.
I'm sorry about today... NUNO It doesn't matter... HECTOR But it does... it was mean of me... I was upset at something... I wasn't really angry at you... NUNO I know. Nuno is taking it rather well.      Hector regains his natural self-confidence.                                             * HECTOR You don't think too badly of me? NUNO No... HECTOR You still like me? Nuno shyly nods his head. HECTOR You do?
Yes.
Well, that makes me feel better... we all have to like each other... and respect each other... that's important too. They are silent for a moment.
If you don't respect me, just say so...
No... she's sick now...
DOM PAULO Can't you be more accurate? Hector comes to the meeting. He sits down on a box near the table and watches and listens, his expression changing with the shifts in mood of the others. This                 * is Hector the social animal, our Hector with his pockets             * full of stolen nails and his tent full of stashes of food. DIAS How can I be accurate without instruments? As it is I'm sighting the sun with two pieces of wood... Call it five hundred and be done with it... he said                          * twenty rivers.                                          *
Confound you, Dom Paulo, that's an insult... she hit that rock because she was taking water and unsteerable... She was overloaded before she left India and you know it.... Dias pounds his fist on the table.
I've told   you... we vote for a                         * leader or   you can walk into the jungle on   your own... it should have been   done days ago... DA CUNHA Calm down, Dias... you can't stay here forever, living on turtles' eggs... There are mock groans and laughter at the thought of it. The tension for the moment is broken.                                 * DA CUNHA What about the sick and the injured, Dom Paulo...?
I've discussed it with Father Diogo... I don't see how a hundred of us can carry seventy sick...
I'm going to search the scriptures tonight. I'm sure that God has an answer to it.
An excuse, you mean... we'll be leaving them here to die...
Oh, so you're coming with us now, Dias! 
After the vote... FATHER DIOGO It might be the best we can offer them now... the chance to die a good Christian death here, and set an example to the heathens...
I'll be glad when we're on the move... the sound of the sea is driving me mad.
Good night, Hector... Hector lingers.
Where is Ursula? Sleeping? FRANCISCO Sick. She hasn't been able to rise since yesterday. Hector's face expresses his shock. From what he has heard at the meeting this is serious news. He makes a decision. He speaks to Francisco, willing their old friendship back into existence in the urgency of the moment.
Will you share a bottle of wine with me? I've had it since we left the ship... I want to drink it tonight, with you. This offer has found a chink in Francisco's armor.
You have a bottle of wine? 
Well, fetch it.
You should hang for this. Some people on the raft might have lived with a glass of this in their stomach... Francisco sips the wine with the relish of long abstinence. HECTOR I know. I feel very guilty.    I brought this too...
Honeyed fruit. The last I have. Francisco can't believe such food still exits.       He smiles in anticipation. FRANCISCO You rogue... give it here...
I brought it for Ursula... Francisco talks through his munching.
Much too rich for her... do you want to kill her?
Surely... some fruit couldn't... 
Francisco... please...                                 *
One of the messengers is talking.     When he finishes, the Slave translates. SLAVE Yes... they will look after the sick... but the King would like one thing... the machine that makes music... DOM PAULO We need food as well... ten cows... to take with us... then the King can have the music.
You must come with us.
No. 
And afterwards... what will you do then?
Follow you and the others. HECTOR Alone?
I'll comfort them as best as I can. DOM PAULO You're staying with them? Father Diogo hastens to correct this misunderstanding.
No, no, I'll comfort them before we leave. I think my place is with you... Two sailors, like stagehands, enter and remove the table, leaving Dom Paulo and Father Diogo propless on the beach.
Francisco... I have to see her                         * before we leave. FRANCISCO I'll ask her. Francisco goes into the hut. Hector waits outside, watching the small human dramas all around him. Soon Francisco emerges from the hut.
In you go. Hector goes into the hut, stooping low at the small entrance.
Ursula... it's Hector.
We're leaving soon. I've come to say goodbye...
I won't forget you... I won't forget India... I can't forget how I hurt you...
We should have talked... I could have explained... many things... She manages a whispered word.
Lisbon... HECTOR Yes... I'll pray for you in Lisbon... at the Cathedral... She lies still.       Hector lingers for a moment.   Then he speaks again. HECTOR I'm sorry I hurt your pride...
What? What did you say?    What are you talking about?
Nothing, nothing... Ursula speaks one word, and then falls back into a dead faint. URSULA Idiot!
Ursula?
We won't forget you, or what you are doing for these poor people...
I'm not staying here with the intention of dying, Dom Paulo... we'll be following you... when we are fit and well...
Yes, of course...
... and good luck to you...                            * They make what they both know is their final parting.            * DOM PAULO God protect you... it breaks my                        * heart to leave you all here, but I don't know what else I can do. They shake hands. DOM PAULO We're leaving the cross with you... FRANCISCO Oh, thank you...
It's too heavy to   carry... and who knows... it might   make some impression on the   heathens. Hector comes out of the hut, solemn-faced.                       *
Francisco, I must talk to you alone...
You've made your peace with her? 
Thank, God... Well, goodbye.                              *
Is there anything that I can do for you? A letter... a message?                           * Francisco laughs softly.
No... if you were carrying                                * something for me I would have to worry about you... if you go empty-handed I can put you out of my mind! Hector smiles uncertainly, unsure if Francisco is making a joke. Then he becomes more serious. HECTOR I want to ask you something.                              * There's no easy way to do it... FRANCISCO Go on, Hector...
Your boots... Francisco looks down at his boots.
What about them?
Can I have them? You can have mine... they'll be fine for here... but I have to walk six hundred miles... Hector lifts a foot to show Francisco his boot. Francisco is stunned into silence. But then a smile comes to his                 * face.
Yes, you're right... I daresay                            * my boots would take you six hundred                       * miles... I look after them...
Yes.
Hector, you have surpassed yourself... sit down and take my boots! Francisco starts to take off his boots. Hector does the             * same. He can't believe his luck. At this moment, he                 * loves Francisco. He makes nonsensical small talk, hopping around on one foot. HECTOR They were made by Da Fosca, weren't they? Francisco is giggling now.
The best bootmaker in Goa... pray for my soul in Lisbon, Hector... and pray for your own...
They've gone... long gone!
How long?
They've been gone a week, at least. HECTOR Damn them... BOBBY We're ten days late...
It's Sandy's... whiskey... BOBBY Well done, my lad! Hector walks to the fire, pleased with     himself. Bobby unfolds his fist and looks at what he     has found, an Indian arrowhead with a few inches of     broken shaft. He folds his hand over it again, keeping     his secret. Behind them, nailed to a tree, is a plaque their companions have left. It reads, "Pennsylvania Boundary Expedition 1761, Marker 152." Also on the plaque someone has written, "We left here, 20th October."
Much too high. You won't find an Indian up here. We just have to keep our heads... no panic. HECTOR If you did find an Indian, what would he be?
You wouldn't... but he might be a Delaware if you did. HECTOR We keep working?
Why not. We can log the peaks on the far side, just a couple of sightings a day... keep us busy...
You think we'll get out? BOBBY If we keep our heads.   I wish I had some tobacco.
Barometer... twenty-eight and three-eighths... temperature...                        * low... thirty-four... high... forty-two and a half... time...
It's getting worse... you're nearly five minutes fast now... HECTOR I'm not fast... you're slowing down. They obviously have this tiff every morning. HECTOR What's the point of having two chronometers when you don't take the average? BOBBY Exactly... you should throw yours away. HECTOR You're unscientific, Bobby... at heart... Hector writes in the book.   He speaks pointedly.
Seven twenty-five...
Sure this is a good idea.
Let's get out of here.
Hi!   Hello! The Indian backs off from them, holding his hands up and smiling crazily, as if to say, "Don't mind me, boys, I'm just leaving..." Hector and Bobby are equally silly in their response. HECTOR Hey, come back... we're just moving through... don't apologize... we all got a fright... goodbye... 
Did you see him?
Sure I saw him. HECTOR Was he a Delaware? BOBBY How the fuck should I know? He was an Indian... and Indians don't come in ones... HECTOR Yeah... I think he was an Indian too... What about the horse? BOBBY I'm not going back down there. HECTOR Don't panic, Bobby... BOBBY Why not? He runs off into the forest.        Then he turns and shouts to Hector.
Come on!
What did you see? 
An Indian... with long hair...
That's it... kind of short... HECTOR Yeah... he was't tall...
That's the one.
Let's get a bit further up. They move off.     Bobby looks at Hector's backpack. BOBBY What've you got in there? HECTOR Some food, the logbooks, my letters, a candle...
A gun? HECTOR No.
We won't have a fire tonight. We should make a shelter though, in case it snows.
What about bears, without a fire?
Don't even think about bears, Hector.
Maybe he's lost too... on his own... must be Delaware... they were chased up here years ago... everybody thought they'd cleared off west... the other side of Ohio... they were an angry lot... no wonder... they used to farm on the coast. He looks up at Hector, and allows himself a small smile. BOBBY Go on, read it out... Hector looks up. HECTOR What?     No... not tonight... BOBBY I've had to listen to it every night since April... why not now?
It's not so funny now as it was.
If you knew him... if you could picture him saying it... it would be funnier.
I had a father like you... nine months on a whaler and then three weeks at home telling us all how much he missed us... HECTOR I'm going home, for the winter...
Smell it? HECTOR No. BOBBY Goddam it... smell it?
Tobacco?
BOBBY Where the hell is it coming from? He puts his head out of the shelter.
I can't tell... a night like this it could carry for miles...
I wish I had a smoke.
I was saving it... you have it...
What do you mean, you were saving it? You know the rules... no hoarding, tobacco or food... you've listened to me for a month, day and night... wanting a smoke...
Well have it now... I don't smoke... take it... BOBBY You've kept it from me, and you don't even use it... HECTOR I was saving it for my birthday... I was going to give it to you then... BOBBY I have to wait until your birthday for a smoke? Who are you... the fucking king? HECTOR Go on, smoke it... have it now... BOBBY I bloody won't... I'm not smoking on your command... I bloody won't. There is a brooding silence.
God,   your poor children... what do they   have to do for a piece of candy   in your house? It's very hard   to like you sometimes... d'you know   that? HECTOR I know, Bobby... but that's how I feel about you, too... that's why we're friends... we try hard... come on... smoke your pipe... 
No... I'll have it in the morning.
Come on... tell me... who would you rather be sitting here with... have a think...
Daniel Boone?
So... where do you want to start?
I know where you want to start...
Alicia... 
Well... what about Alicia? HECTOR I'm sorry...
No... I'm sorry...
What do you mean, you're sorry... I'm the one that has to apologize...
Oh no you're not... It will be a worthwhile night for both of them.
Isn't it a beautiful day? Hector finishes his writing, tears out the page from his book. He offers it to Bobby. HECTOR I've said who we are and where we're headed. Want to sign it, write anything? BOBBY No. HECTOR The peak we logged yesterday... I've named it Nathanial Mountain. After my boy... is that fine with you? BOBBY I was going to call it Tobacco Mountain... or Mount Alicia... but Nathaniel's fine... 
Let's get away from here. HECTOR North? BOBBY Yeah.    Keep the sun on our backs.
We can move quicker without the horse... we just have to keep moving... we have to get away from here. Behind them they don't see the figure moving from the cover of one tree to another, and then another figure following the first. They move like ghosts.
What's wrong? BOBBY Quiet.   They're on the other side...
Does it have to be bad?   They might be friendly...
They were chased here... They should be on the coast growing corn...
Oh-oh...                                               * HECTOR What's wrong?                                          * BOBBY They're behind us. They must think we're stalking the women... Hector looks and sees nothing. Fifty Indians hold their breath. The forest seems empty. But Hector looks at Bobby. He is grey-faced, a man who is looking at death. Hector knows they are doomed. BOBBY Do you want to run? HECTOR I'll do what you do. They leap to their feet and run. There is only one way to go, over the rise, through the women and children and across the stream. To the watching Indians it looks like a direct attack on their families. From behind trees and rocks they emerge and begin the chase. A tragedy of misunderstanding. 
Hold my hand, Bobby... They hold hands and run.
REPORTER #1 Do you know the lady, Mr. Troup?
Think you'll go to jail again?
Look here for a second, will you, Mr. Troup? REPORTER #1 Will you talk to us when you come out? 
You guys are downstairs... third floor... thirty-eight... The paramedics turn around and head back down the stairs. Hector looks at the Policeman curiously. POLICEMAN You're forty-eight.
This is Troup! A DETECTIVE is with another man who looks like a city official.
Come here, Troup. I'm Cobb.
What? DETECTIVE Building warrant, license, fire certificate, sanitation certificate... I want them all... This is Mr. Santiago, from the city... insurance... 
Slow down, Troup... so it's 3:15 on a Friday... you're staying here 'til Mr. Santiago gets the paperwork... get your partner over here, with everything... this is serious...
3:35... MR. SANTIAGO I might have to close the place down.
Where is she? The Detective and Hector walk down the hall. They stop at the door of the bathroom. Hector looks inside. There is a large ragged hole in the floor. At the far side of it the toilet unit dangles at a dangerous angle into the hole, held only by its plumbing. Firemen are working to secure it and what is left of the floor with metal props and hydraulic jacks. Lying on the floor below, surrounded by rubble, and being attended by the paramedics, is an old lady, MRS. PHILIPPOPOLIS. She tries to sit up when she sees Hector peering at her over the rim of the hole. She looks angry. MR. PHILIPPOPOLIS I phoned you Monday... I told you the floor was making noises... HECTOR Not me, Mrs. Philippopolis... my ex-partner... I think you spoke                          * to him... How are you feeling? Hector says this clearly, for the benefit of the Detective and Mr. Santiago. The Detecitve is unimpressed.
Come back from there, Troup, the floor's still moving...
Wait 'til my son sees his mother lying here like this... he's gonna sue you... you're a lousy landlord... you should be ashamed... to let old people live like this... I phoned you Monday... I have a witness! I was dancing with a prince on my eighteenth birthday, and now look at me... you have me falling down a toilet!
Boris... why did you do this to me? Get down here now... they want all kinds of certificates... They won't let me leave the building... I have my kids tonight, I haven't seen them in four years... I did tell you, I've been talking about it all week... how come they phoned me, this isn't my building? What? Don't tell me anymore... I want you here, now... and on your knee... I'll phone the lawyer... but you move. My weekend's ruined before it's started.
It looks like water rotted the floor... You have any plumbing maintenance records? HECTOR At the office... I might have some bills... it's not my building.                         * Santiago is talking almost to himself now, absorbed in the mundane mechanics of Hector's building. SANTIAGO It's a weird one... I don't know how water could sit in there for so long without somebody noticing ... you didn't use water-resistent paint on the ceilings did you?
I don't really know...
You're going to have to check out                      * the whole building... you know that, don't you?
Can I do it Monday?
Good joke... it'll take you a month. 
Can I speak with Leonard, please... Mr. Deutsch? My name is Hector Troup, Borlonski and Troup, Real Estate... There is a moment's pause.
Leonard... it's Hector... Borlonski and Troup... yes... listen, we've had a domestic accident at our Eighth Street building... a floor                     * ... and an old lady... she did mention the word sue, but it might have been hysterics... what I need to know is what certificates you have on file for the building... I                    * know it's Friday... just do one                       * thing... let me know if the insurance is current... I need to know that... I'm on my mobile... anything you have... before five ... thank you... During the call Hector has walked   down the hall and back to the hole in the floor. He sees    Mrs. Philippopolis, now strapped in a stretcher, being   carried out of the room below. At the sight of him,    she tries to sit up, straining on her straps.
My son's downstairs... when he sees me like this he'll kill you... go on... jump through the hole... see what it feels like! Break both legs!
Mr. Troup, I'm George Philippopolis. They shake hands. HECTOR I'm sorry about your mother... SON Well... it's happened... you want to travel with us, or do you have a car?
What? SON To the hospital...
Well, I wasn't planning to...
You're not making a visit to the hospital? 
He's not coming to the hospital...
That could look bad...
Look, George... here's what I can do... I'll visit her on Tuesday, I'll organize some flowers... lots...                                                  * SON Screw the flowers... who's gonna check her into the hospital... who's gonna pay? It's your building that fell down... He nods his head to the Policeman. HECTOR They won't let me leave here... The Policeman this time backs him up.
That's true.
Wait 'til they hear this in court                        * ... he wouldn't even make a trip                         * to the hospital... Can't you even                        * give me a credit card number?                            *
Yeah... we're covered for most things... the license is current, the inspection certificate is okay...
What's with the we... it's your problem.
How is she? HECTOR She's a witch... her   bones must be made of steel... she   didn't break a thing... it might   help if you make a visit to the   hospital... why did you do this   to me? BORIS I'm sorry, Hector... I   just put your name on the lousy   forms... I didn't plan this... I   just borrowed your name on   the titles. Hector doesn't let up on his anger.
I told you to stop doing that... why does this keep happening to me... my name is mine... use your own name, Boris Borlonski... will you remember that? Boris Borlonski!
Get in... you can dropp me at the shop. Hector gets into the car, smiling broadly.
You bring my bag? ANNA Yeah. Your camera's in there too. Take some photographs of the kids...
Sure.   Thanks. ANNA Nervous?
Don't worry... this is the beginning of something... not the end... you can start being a father again.
I'm glad you talked me into it. ANNA I didn't do much... you were ready... HECTOR You're right... you're absolutely right... I was ready... I am ready, for everything... I'm fixing all that shit with Boris... I told him... it can't go on... I want my freedom. Anna is looking at him amusedly, nodding her head with every earnest pronouncement that he makes.
... and the kids... that'll work out... we can have them over sometimes... Yeah? ANNA Sure... that was the plan... when we have the space... HECTOR Right, when we have the space... when we get the bigger apartment... together... ANNA There you go... you said it... the bigger apartment together...
You're a man of decision, Hector...
Yes I am... Together... I said it ... and get out of my car at the corner here... I don't have the time to go 'round the block.
Thanks... for the car... everything... ANNA Do the best you can with them, Hector... and one more thing... deliver these... She indicates a massive bouquet of flowers wrapped in cellophane, taking up the whole of the luggage space in the car. HECTOR What?   Anna, I can't...
Here's the address... just two blocks before the bridge... a five minute detour. It's a golden wedding... you have to... She looks him straight in the eye.
We have to help each other...
Oh, you'll need gas too... Go to it, Hector...
And after so many images of the natural world, a world little altered by man, the PANORAMIC SHOTS of New York in all its mad glory will place our Hector in a new dimen- sion. If there is a breathtaking moment in this film, when everything comes together, when all the pieces fit, then it will be somewhere around here that it happens. Six thousand years ago we left Hector on a beach, aching for his family. If the traffic allows, tonight in New Jersey Hector will complete his journey. We will GO WITH Hector OVER the bridge, ACROSS the avenues of Manhattan and THROUGH the tunnel. His PHONE RINGS ONCE.
Hello... Leonard, hello... yes... we're insured... thank God... yes now I know God's a lawyer... thanks... On the outskirts of Jersey City he finds the suburban street he is looking for. If the last crosslight holds on green then he might even make it on time. Hector stops the car outside Janet's house and lets out a sigh of relief.
You made it. The kids are just coming. They're not over the moon about going to the beach house. I ought to warn you.
Why didn't you say? I could have fixed up something else. I thought it would be a good place to get to know them again...
Well, I figured you should be                            * allowed to make your own mistakes. It's only for a couple of nights, they can take it... and you'll learn... Check into a hotel if it gets too much... they like hotels. She shouts into the house. JANET Come on, you two... your father's ready to go... She hands Hector a piece of paper.
This is where we'll be, if anything crops up... thanks for the break... Hector gets a little scared about what he has taken on.
Maybe this is a bit sudden for them... Maybe I should have come over a couple of nights and got to know them...
By Monday, you'll know them...
That's what they call you.
Hi. They hardly lift their heads to him.
Hi. TOM Hi. Janet takes control of the farewells.
You three have a good weekend. If it's too miserable at the house your father said he'll take you to a hotel. Hector nods his head obediently. He always did with Janet. The children let their mother pat them and follow Hector to his car, eyes to the ground.
Good luck, Hector.
Are those for mom?
No... I can't face it, not just now... He looks at the kids.
Let's go.
Excuse me, kids... I have to consult the oracle...
That's it! The last call... the weekend starts right now... we have things to do... look out for a Safeway... we need some supplies... and gas... oh my God, gas... soon... They return his look with blank expressions.        He picks up the phone and offers it to them.
Want to make any calls?    Betsy? She shakes her head. HECTOR Tom? TOM No... and it's Thomas... HECTOR But we called you Tom... that's what it says on your birth certificate... THOMAS I changed it. Hector wisely lets it go.
Right... it's your name... you                            * can do that... Safeway... keep your                       * eyes skinned... and I could murder                        * a Chicken McNugget.                                       *
What's wrong with that? It's a kitchen roll... why can't I pick a kitchen roll?
Ugh! Why don't you ask us what we like... it'll save you money... you buy junk, we won't eat it... A trace of girlish common sense has crept into her voice. Hector warms to her.
You're right.
Well, get to it... I'll just tag along...
I do it every week anyway. 
She does. She tells us what to eat. We let her.
Can I just keep a couple of those steaks? We can't live on chicken.                   *
Are you going to bring the flowers in? HECTOR Don't mention the flowers.
This is good, Tony, the stones are talking to me already... now here's something... travel... movement... Tony, are you planning a move... travel... anything? TONY Yes I am... I've been thinking about a move to California...
The big one, eh, Tony? These stones are really talking here... what are you planning for yourself in California? TONY I'm hoping for an acting career, Mel... TV MAN Tony, these stones really like what you're planning... there is no doubt in my mind about that... now listen... you have to be specific... these stones really want to tell you something, be it love, money or the purpose of your life... but I want a specific question from you... think about it... what do you want to know... love... or your income level next year? Be as specific as you can, Tony...
Get me the books... all the books... all of the books... no, no, no... not the pancakes... not the pancakes... no... She changes in an instant from a bossy adolescent to a tearful, crumpled little girl. She sobs pitifully.
... not the pancakes...
... find your true cosmic partner first time around... every weekday morning at three here on the Psychic Network... Lucinda's Horoscope Dating Show... remember there is an answer, and there is a special partner out there for you... Hector moves quietly out of the room, Betsy's sobs having subsided. Just as he is closing the door he gets another surprise, this time from the sleeping Thomas. THOMAS ... don't let the oil run out... yes you did... watch the oil... why... why? Hector closes the bedroom door.     He is one spooked, moved human being.
How about some eggs? They shake their heads.
How many have you got in there?
Three.   Is that all right? BETSY For a week, maybe.
How about pancakes, Betsy... d'you like pancakes? BETSY Not much... why? HECTOR I just wondered. Pancakes don't mean much to you? BETSY They don't mean a thing.     Why? HECTOR Nothing. The mystery of Betsy's pancake dream is evidently lost in infinity. Hector changes the subject.
I thought we could walk into town this morning. I saw the Funfair when we came through last night. THOMAS We don't go to Funfairs.
Let's take the walk anyway.
I brought some books.   I want to stay home and read. Hector is determined to make it work.
No.   We're taking a walk.
It's going to rain... we should stay.
Here's an umbrella... and there must be some old coats in here... and shoes... I only have these I'm wearing... THOMAS Donald has some shoes...
I don't know if I want to wear Donald's shoes. THOMAS Why not? Hector declines to explain the complex   reasons that he might have for not wanting to wear the   shoes of his children's replacement father. He sits    down on the            * stairs to put them on. Then something    on the wall catches his eye. HECTOR Wow.   Look at this. The kids' heights have been marked on the wall on some long-ago holiday. The dates are beside them.
Six years ago. Look at that... What's this?
That was the flood. The sea came right up. Donald says it's the icecap melting. It's going to get worse. That's why Mom's selling the place.
The last two.
Where are the birds?    Is it the wrong time of year? BETSY They don't come over so much. The shellfish have gone... that's what... HECTOR That's what Donald says? BETSY Yes... and it happens to be true.
Please don't rain... please...
Let's have a ride... He has stopped at some dated space rockets.
The seats are wet. Hector triumphs. He pulls a wad of kitchen roll from his pocket and starts to wipe the seats. 
This is ridiculous. Let's go somewhere and talk. Betsy smiles her small patient smile. BETSY All right, if you want to... Hector looks to Thomas. Thomas vigorously nods his agreement. Hector is happier. He looks down on the decrepit fairground.
How do we land these things?
Sure you won't have a pancake,                          * Betsy?                                                  * Betsy gets impatient.                                                *
No!                                                     * 
Where have you been?
What he means is why did you stay away?
Well, that's a fair question... your mother and I got divorced... you're big enough to remember... she must have told you all that? BETSY Sure she has... but lots of people get divorced... that doesn't mean they disappear... HECTOR You're right... what can I tell you... I went kind of crazy after that, for a good while... I came around a few times... remember? THOMAS Not really. HECTOR Well, it wasn't easy... everything with her and Donald happened pretty quickly. I missed you both really badly... but for a while I thought I should stay away, until your mother got settled... no, that's not really true... I missed you... but I was kind of crazy at the same time... your mother and I married young... I wasn't used to the freedom... it went to my head ... then you moved to New Jersey. 
What for?
We were doing government work, big contracts... there were some temptations... my boss asked me to shuffle a few papers... there was a lot of money in it... I had to testify against him... it was like killing somebody.
BETSY Thomas wanted to visit you in jail, but Mom wouldn't let him.                        * Hector looks at Thomas.
You did?
We didn't even know when you got out.
No. He's a good man, a good man.                       * I like him. I mean it. He's my                         * friend.                                                * BETSY That's what you do now?
Yes. We rent apartments... but we want to get into commercial property... people are a nuisance... does that sound bad? Betsy shrugs her shoulders. BETSY How should I know? Hector carries on with his story. HECTOR Just recently I've been feeling good, things have been going well... and I missed you two... so here we are... BETSY What about your girl friend? HECTOR Who told you about her?
Nobody.
Anna... she's nice... she wants to meet you, real soon... she sells flowers... well, you know that... and on Monday she's probably going to kill me...
No... heck... no... did you think she was following us? THOMAS She's always thinking up stories like that... she never stops...
Well, if people don't tell you things... HECTOR She's right, Thomas... people should talk more. THOMAS So you haven't been staying away because of us?
What do you mean? Is that what you thought? I was avoiding you two? No... you mustn't think that... that's terrible... They have almost exhausted themselves in this first bout of talking. Hector looks out at the sea.
The rain's off. Let's go.
I have to ask you something else.
Go on. 
I didn't leave because it was two days before your test... it was just what your mother and I decided... I taught you how to swim... we went to the pool twice a week... why would I leave? BETSY I know... that's what I mean... why did you leave just then? Hector looks at Betsy. She is beginning to cry silently. He puts a tentative arm around her shoulder. HECTOR Oh, God, Betsy. I'm sorry.
It doesn't matter.
How did you do, in the test? BETSY I passed. Hector leaves his limp arm on her shoulder. It is too                * soon for gestures of emotion. After a long moment she speaks. BETSY I'm a life-saver now.
Hey, Thomas! We're going home... we're having a barbecue... Betsy said she'll even let me eat a steak!
Hurry up, Tom!                                          *
Don't call him Tom, he doesn't like it.
I'm allowed. Somehow Hector is touched by this.
Your mother said it, when we split up... don't lose the children... didn't mean much at the time. But she was right.
Who said I'd let you eat a steak? There is a silence.      Then Hector speaks. HECTOR Betsy.    On Monday will you come with me   when I take the flowers back to   Anna? I can't face her alone.    She wants to meet you anyway.
Sure. HECTOR You'll be there, right beside me? BETSY I'd have to take the morning off school. HECTOR Is that bad?
No, that could be good...
Just tell them you were with your invisible dad.
What's she like? How did you meet her?
The funny thing is I fell in love with her before I ever saw her... I smelled her... It was the day I got out of jail... I was on the train and she was sitting behind me... it was just this incredible perfume... remember I'd been inside for nearly two years with four hundred sweating males... She got off the train and I followed her... I couldn't help it... that's how good she is... she listened to a bum who followed her off a train... Betsy looks at him kindly. HECTOR ... but she's still going to kill me on Monday...
I think I'll paint the sunset tonight. HECTOR It's just like a big pancake up there, isn't it? Betsy doesn't take the bait.   There is a silence.
I remember when you two were tiny.. I used to watch you sleeping... it was like now... I felt close to you, could touch you... but you weren't there... you were gone... dreamland ... just when I was closest to you, you weren't there... I felt it last night, too.
That's what it's like... you should know that.
No... we can do that...
Who are you?   Who's inside there? BETSY You'll never know. Future generations of women are going to be just as unknowable to our Hectors as past ones were. Betsy moves off briskly along the beach. Hector trails after her, hooked.
I thought he was taller. 
Come on in, kids... that boat doesn't look too safe... They call back to him. BETSY We're fine! Hector tries to relax, but he doesn't have the confidence yet, or something. He is edgy.
I've just found you... I don't want to lose you. What would I tell your mother... come on in...
HECTOR Throw me the rope, Thomas, I'll pull you in. Thomas throws the mooring rope to Hector. It isn't attached to the boat. Hector ends up with all of the rope in his hands. He stands there, and they all laugh. HECTOR This is one useless piece of rope, Thomas...
Why does it always go so fast...? Thomas is laughing at her. He has seen    her attempt this before. Hector has other concerns. He     is trying to light his barbecue. Match after match    disappears into his elaborate stone structure, only to   fizzle out.
I used to know how to do this...
I did... I used to be really good at this... He wafts and blows ineffectually at a flicker of flame. There's not much of the caveman about him now.
Ah... smell it... the smell of civilization... scorched meat... Hector serves the chicken onto their plates. He sits down beside them with his steak, and a glass of wine. He watches Thomas attack his chicken, and smiles.
I'd forgotten that... how you eat... dedicated... like it's your religion!
Things I like.
Hey, so I did... I'd forgotten about that...
There she is... old Mercury... THOMAS No... Mercury doesn't rise 'til after midnight... that's Jupiter... Hector is impressed by his son.
I'd forgotten... we used to watch                        * the stars... you could tell me the                       * names of all the planets... you                          * could recite them like a poem... remember... at the tiny window upstairs in the old house? THOMAS No. HECTOR Oh well, not to worry. I'm glad you still like astronomy though. THOMAS I'm not into star-gazing so much ... we're working on computer modelling... we're trying to make a biosphere...
Uh-huh? THOMAS A self-sustaining life system... for inter-stellar travel. But we always get a methane build up, it doesn't matter what we do... 
Yeah. We're making such a mess of the world, one day we're going to have to take off for somewhere else... HECTOR Sounds like Donald said that...
Well, I'm glad you two are thinking about the old planet. I'm proud of you. Look how beautiful everything is. Sometimes I think it's people that make it all wrong... we walk around with all our problems...
Wait a minute... I know... the whole universe is inside a speck of dust that's lying in a ball of fluff in the cuff of a pair of pants hanging over the back of a chair...
No... I'll tell you... the whole thing... stars and everything... is sitting on the skin of a bubble of milk in a bowl of cornflakes... and somebody's just about to eat it... The three of them are laughing now. BETSY Skimmed milk...
You don't get bubbles in skimmed milk... HECTOR Okay... it's half-and-half... Perhaps that's just about as close as Hector and his                * tribe of humans will ever come to working it all out. But they try.                                                       * BETSY I've got a better one... we're all inside a speck of pollen that's stuck to the wing of a bee while it sits on a flower...
Don't mention flowers, Betsy... please, not tonight.
I have an idea, Betsy... we're                         * inside a pancake... what d'you                         * think?                                                 *
