Almost a day behind us.
Well, who are they?  Americans?  Brits? 'Talians?  Doesn't even say.
I think we can assume they're friendly, Mr. Loomis.  Besides, it doesn't appear to be a suggestion, does it?
 Hell, why not?  Might get a silver star out of this patrol yet.
Have Coors plot it out.
Not very many....
 Gunner's mates standing by below, sir.
Stow the weapons.  They're British.
You can tell that?  From here?
The sail -- Krauts use white on their lifeboats, Brits red.  Don't they teach that in O.C.S., ensign?
'Fraid not, sir.  Though I can recite the submariner's motto in Latin.
Mr. Coors?
Radar contact, sir, starboard beam, 11 miles out....
Think they see us?
[They're] pourin' on the coal for somebody.
 All ahead emergency.  Rudder amidships. Crew to battle stations. (shouting to foredeck) Awright, let's do this at flank speed! You grab what's breathing on that boat and leave anything else behind!  Got it?  Stand by to board passengers!
Well done, well done.  Just lay him aside and keep 'em comin', keep 'em comin'....
Easy on the leg, lads...already in enough pieces....
Talk later, move now.  Next ladder, next ladder....
Well done.
"Three tea bags."  And get this -- one's a bleeder.
Aw, Sweet Baby Jesus....
Well, if it means you guys finally wash the butt-squirt outta your shorts, I'm all for it.
That's all this boat needs -- one more piece of rotten luck.
Let's pull the plug.
Clear the bridge, rig for dive.
Periscope depth.
Cycle the vents, blow negative, take us down to 65 feet.
Pressure in the boat.
Contact bearing 1-5-0....
He's in and out.  I didn't try to dress the wounds until they'd been cleaned. Have any sulphating agents?
 Morphine...penicillin...ether...this looks like, uh....
You're aren't the doctor, are you?
Pharmacist Mate is best you get on a submarine...
...but he missed the boat.  I'm Odell, supply officer.  They gave me the job 'cuz I have keys to this stuff.  Here....
What happened to your ship?
We'll debrief later, Mr. Odell.  Just find them quarters.
Two-stacker.  'Bout 9,000 tons.  Possible Rhine class.
If it is...rear racks, no side throwers, twin six-inch guns, grapplehooks...good to 200 feet.
Fast screws, Mr. Brice.  30 knots or better.
 250 feet, right full rudder.
Secure from battle stations.
So this "Fort James"....
Hospital ship.  We were attacked two nights ago.  Two nights?  Sorry, brain's a bit foggy -- though I'm reasonably sure I'm Claire Paige.  Should be able to fill in the details as soon as --
Just a whale.
How far down are we?
200 feet or so, on our way to 250. (off her ashen look) Still gets to me, too -- the sounds down here.
No, no, it's just that...I have a small problem with...confined areas.
Comin' through...watch your toes...make way for the workin' men....
 Doesn't look good.
See if you can't cut those clothes off. Get a better look at his wounds.
I can change the dressings.  Other than that, I think it's best to just let him be.
Officers' shower just forward.  We try to hold it down to 30 seconds, but [in your case]....
Do we know if there were others?  Anyone else rescued?
Not that I heard of, ma'am.  Sorry.
Thank you.  Thank you ever so much.
...but with these currents, let's consider this heading plus-or-minus one degree until our next star-fix.
Well done.  If we make 15 knots by night, we can be back in the barn in 96 hours.
[So we're] taking the Brits back too?
Mr. Coors, you have the conn.  Let's get their story.
Sorry, maybe I didn't make myself clear. I saw it.  Crossed the moon's reflection just before the explosion.  Wasn't a mine -- it was a U-boat.
What class?  Type 7?  Older boat?
Or one of their newer ones?  Clean at the bow?  No net-cutter?
It was just a second or two.  Sorry, know it would be helpful, but....
So you were on look-out that night, Mister....
Kingsley, sub-lieutenant, merchant marine. Hello.  Grabbing a gasper, actually, starboard deck.  A "smoke."
And how many aboard your ship?
300 patients.
At least that many.  Out of North Africa.
And probably 70 hands in the crew, so....
 You said they fired one torpedo?
Odell, better tell sonar we've got an enemy sub in the area.
 Just give me one....
Do it now.
I'm just sorry we couldn't save more.  And the third in your party?  He's....
One of the patients.  Though I couldn't tell you his name just now.
So under normal conditions, I'd drop you at the nearest port in England, but that's a 300-mile detour for us, and we're over- extended as it is.  Sorry, but seems we're stuck with each other.
Can we get a radio message off?  Let people know we're still --
We only radio when we're on the surface, Miss Paige, and we only surface at night -- if we can help it. (starting to leave) Oh, and last thing.  Try not to fraternize.  Most men are fine, but some get a little strange about [women aboard]....
"Strange" as in "superstitious"?
As in "strange."
"...his boots went thwuck, thwuck, thwuck through the boggy shallows.  Sweat and oil and grime clung to his Adonis brow. Suddenly his heart rolled over backwards in his chest as he saw the huge wretched thing before him..."
Weird Wally, at it again.
"Instantly its mouth widened into a terrible and hungry menace.  Now the malediction uttered a deep-throated sound...."
"Malediction?"
Look it up.  "...and its breath stank gloriously of rotted carp and matted gorilla skins and bilge-water.  Now it slouched toward him...not fast, but slowly, slowly, so very slowly...."
Whazzis story called again?
"The She-Witch of Blood Lake...."
Another female....
I don't wanna hear this shit no more.
This is classic fiction here.
Hey, "Farewell to Arms" is classic fiction.  "Incredibly Weird Tales?" Chicken-fried ass-wipe.  Now get outta here, alla you.  This is the maneuvering room, and I can't maneuver with all you bull-slingers cloggin' up the --
Look alive, Stumpie.  Got a U-boat out there....
Hey, Chief?  Krauts don't name their subs after females, do they?
What exactly bothers you?
Well, you got a slow-sinking ship -- slow enough to get at least a few lifeboats off.  But this U-boat only fires one torpedo the whole time.  That's not textbook German tactics.  They keep firing until the target is sunk.
So it was their last torpedo.
Why didn't they use their deck guns?
What is this, Odell?  Second patrol?
My third.
And your first was a little shakedown run off the coast of Florida in one of those old school boats?
Just wondering if their story doesn't seem a little..."off."
Wouldn't worry about it, champ -- they got here somehow.  Hey, want coffee?
Sure.
Two cups.  Sweet and blonde for me.
Sonar contact.
90-plus turns.  Could be a destroyer, could be....
That Rhine Class.  Maybe we didn't shake him after all.
Listening for us....
Full stop!
Full stop!  Rig for quiet!
 How could they know we're here....
 10 degrees down-bubble.  Find us some cold.  Get on the thermograph, Mr. Odell.
 Right there.  Five-degree gradient at 2-1-0 feet.
Colder water...deflects sound waves...just in case they start to --
"I'll be seeing you...in all the old familiar places...."
Have no idea, sir.  I just ran in and it was already --
Splashes!
 Splashes!
 Shit on a stick, was that a dud?  And who the fuck was playing music?  Huh?  Trying to get us killed?
Back to stations!  I want reports!  BACK TO YOUR STATIONS!
Christ, 'zat all my blood?  Runnin' 'cross the floor like that?
Only a pint.  Tighter, keep the tourniquet tighter.
Think I may faint.
Hold on, hold on.  Don't take this wrong now....
Better?
Completely.
I asked you to stay forward.
My idea, sir.  She's a certified med-tech, which may be the nearest thing to a doctor we've --
 Were you or Mr. Kingsley in the wardroom before the attack?  Just prior?
I was in the control room, as I believe Kingsley was, too.
He was with you the whole time?
Be quicker, lieutenant, if you just tell me what you're after.  Are you suggesting that one of us is responsible for the --
 Keep working!  Please!
Hot fish, out of the tube!  Forward room!
Mark-14.  It'll detonate magnetically, around any steel hull, after 500 yards.
So?  It's not moving.
The boat is.
Get it out, get it out, just get it out the god damn tube!
Torpedo party to the tower!  Now, now, now, now, now!
Open outer doors!  Bow tubes!
 Fish in the barrel, sir!
Flood number two tube!
Go, go, go, go, go....
Torpedo underway!
Hard left rudder!
...well, maybe the phonograph wasn't secured...and maybe the intercom was left "on"...and maybe that fish went haywire for no reason, but goddamn....
And maybe someone's trying to kill us.
 Miss Paige claims she was in the control room the whole time.
I think that's right.
So what about the other one?
Kingsley?
If that's his name.  Where was he when it all happened?
Not sure.  May've stepped out.
"Stepped" out?  Or "slipped" out?
You know, maybe we're spending more time watchin' pretty little Missy than we are watchin' our backs.
Me?  I've talked to her twice.
About what?
Heard you were bird-doggin' her, Odell.
Been runnin' your mouth, ensign?  About boat-matters?
Wai', wai', wait.  Chief.  Wasn't there a maintenance bulletin on Mark-14s? Something about self-starting?
 Got a history of twitchy behavior.  And as for the record player goin' off -- well, yeah, that's strange, but I'm not sure it calls for a lynching party.  Maybe we should all just take a deep breath and --
Brice.
'Tenant, need you back in mess.  Straight away.
Was all set to toss 'em out.  Then I noticed this.
These came from....
The half-dead guy.
Wake him up.
I'm sorry, I'm not sure what --
Wake the German up.
Hallo, mein kapitn.
Jesus.....
 I'm the one who asked him not to speak. Me.  I just thought it would be better if we all could think of him as any other --
She had 'im right under our noses...whole goddamn time....
Away.
I'll tell you, I'll tell you everything. His name is Bernard Schillings, he's a downed aviator and a patient of mine. He's a prisoner of war, which means he's entitled to protection under the Geneva Conv --
Got to come this way, ma'am.
He had no cause to do those things...he has a family, children...he wants to get home just like the rest of us....
Let them sort it out....
Doesn't matter whose side he's on now....
Be all right, really, just....
You should have told me.
 Maybe I was worried that...that you would do exactly what you did.
You should have told me no matter what, because your little secret nearly cost every man here his life.
But he had no reason to --
Mr. Odell, the woman is confined to quarters for the duration of patrol.  If she asks to use the toilet, you are to bring her a bucket.  Stumbo, secure the body.
Fuckin' A-1, sir.
Mr. Loomis, conn is yours.  I'll be in my berth -- sleeping.
 I just wanted to save one...just one of my patients....
"I'll be seeing you..."
"...in all the old familiar places...."
 No....
So who's screwing with me?  Huh?
WHICH ONE OF YOU IS DOING THIS NOW?
How're those hydrogen levels?
Almost three percent.  Chief says we need to vent before long.
We'll ride surface tonight.  2100 hours.
Something else?
Well, just.... I can't believe it's one of our own hands doing this.  Seven weeks, I think I know most the guys now.  Just don't believe it's one of them.
Been a rough patrol -- men do strange things under duress.  Want you to keep your eyes open, Odell.  Could be anyone.
Aye-aye.
Maybe we could vent our bleeder, too.
Say again?
Little Missy.  Never trust anything that bleeds for five days and don't die, I always [say] --
Shut up, Stumbo.  Just shut your stupid mouth.
Bright kid, Odell.
You shouldn't be here....
You should get off when you can....
Get off before it's too late....
I thought he...spoke to me.
Claire....
No, it wasn't his voice, but it was...I mean....
Claire.
 Is this what you do for sport?  You have nothing better to do in the midst of a war than to play sick little jokes with --
Okay, it's over, it's over....
 Wrap it back up, Stumpie.  We'll dump him when we surface.
A bit more respect for the dead might be in order, Mr. Brice.  From everyone aboard this ship.
This is a "boat" you're a guest on, not a "ship."
I won't forget.
 "Get off before it's too late...."
Compliments of the C.O.
I'll thank him when I see him.
Since no one seems able to sleep anyway... try some of this motor oil they call "coffee"....
Claire?
Changing, isn't it?  The air.
Think you'll pull through?
 Comes and goes.  Polio-myelitis, growing up.  Didn't breathe well when I slept, so every night -- eight months running -- they stuck me in an iron lung.
I saw you down in the respirator ward, of course, working with all the patients, but I never knew....
Was so wretched that I swore I'd help other people through it, someday, if I could.... (eyeing the curved hull around her) Maybe it's just all this metal...this "boat" of theirs.  Something not right about it...sealed off...living below the real world....
We're scarcely the people to complain, Claire.  Especially after what with Schillings -- which you know I thought was a mistake.
 Something not right....
Can have it any temperature you want -- 'long as it's either "too hot" or "too cold."
So much dark....
Nice try.  Hoag tell you?  He musta toldja.
... trying...trying to find the way back, but...
...but it's so cold here....
'Smatter?  Stumpie?
...tellin' ya, some baaaad hoodoo on this boat.
Hey, Stumbo?  Mighta worked on the female, but not me.  Go try --
Fuck the Brillo pad, this ain't about her. It talked to me.
The dead guy.
The dead Kraut.
Uh-huh.  And did he talk to you in English or German?
Well, it was, uh...English, I guess.
Case closed.  Give it a blow, huh?  You're upsettin' my lucky fish.
Stumbo, you wouldn't also happen to be the Sinatra fan, wouldja?
Go up there.  Right now.  Don't believe me?  Listen to the dead guy.
I gotta milk the cows.
What if...you know...what if it's "him"?
Let's take a look.
Rig for surface.  Prepare to charge batteries and take on air through main induction.
Switching to night lights.
Eight degrees up-bubble.  We're on our way to 65 feet.
"1420 hours.  Took periscope photos of German sub-pens at Lorient before moving on to areas north.  O.N.I. should be happy with results.  1550 hours.  Saw multiple shipping targets but passed on all.  Men getting itchy to come home with at least one kill..."
"...but so far I'm resisting the temptation, staying focused on primary mission of photo recon...."
Some tall grass out there....
Good skies, though.  Should be able to shoot the stars and lock our position. Well done.  Sextant.  In my cabin.
"0840 hours.  Picked up three survivors from the Fort James, British merchantman and hospital ship, reportedly victims of a German U-boat..."  "Reportedly."
...wondering where a fellow could get a little Earl Grey tea....
Check with the mess steward.
 So we'll be surfacing soon?  Taking on some fresh air?
Trying to.
What're you doing here?
Hmm?  Oh, wasn't feeling comfortable in my room -- what with the bloody walls. Didn't think anyone would --
Shouldn't be in the skipper's cabin without permission.
Gladly ask him.  Mr. Brice is the skipper, isn't he?
Lieutenant Brice is the current C.O. of this boat.  And you need his permission to be anywhere besides your assigned quarters.
Screws kicking over!  Starboard quarter!
Periscope down!  Emergency dive!
Emergency dive!  Blow negative and cycle the vents!
How the hell they know?
Depth to keel?
120, sir.
Let's use it all.
 Trim it off...trim it off...and...all stop.
What?  What did we hit?
Just the bottom.
"Just the...."  Well, just how long can we stay down here?  Before the CO2 gets so --
Don't worry about CO2.
Don't?
"Hydrogen."
We use the diesels above, batteries below -- and the batteries off-gas hydrogen.  As for "how long"...
Rig for quiet.  All hands ordered to racks unless on watch -- no extraneous activity. And the smoking lamp is out.
Guess we're gonna find out.
"...Johnny tried whistling a little tune, but it didn't help -- his nerves were like old frayed electrical cords.  So he paused in the cold dead heart of the cemetery to light his last cigarette..."
"Just then the pregnant moon ran away, wisely taking refuge behind the leaden clouds.  And now, beside Johnny's unwary foot, the ground -- the soft, wormy, freshly dug earth -- began to heave...."
How're those stitches holdin', Zap?  Good? Okay, matches, Zippos, c'mon, give 'em up, Chief wants 'em under lock and key....  Be right back to change those bandages, Meyers....
What's this one called?
"The Undeniable Undead..."
'Bout these Chinese railroad workers, couple hundred years ago.  Buried alive.
 It's research.
They're dead, but not dead-dead, y'know?
Like on the farm, you chop a chicken, sometimes it don't die right off?  I seen this rooster chase a girl 'round a whole big barn once -- with no head.
So...what happened to her head?
Wallace, you givin' everybody nightmares again?
It's my calling, sir.
Well, stow it.  And gimme that Zippo, Hoag.
So Wallace?  What's, like, the "theme" of the story?
Saying that death can be a very imprecise thing.  Just because we want it to be clean and absolute, doesn't make it so. Sometimes death gets....
"Sloppy."
"Sloppy."
Very "sloppy."
Seaweed...
...maybe a fishing net.  Gets caught up and slaps against the hull.  Hear a lot of strange things at depth.  I can't even identify them all.
So what should I do with you?  Hmm?  What would happen in your navy if a passenger defied orders aboard ship?  Chained up? Gagged?  What?
I'm sorry.  I regret not telling you about Schillings because...well, I should've realized that a submarine isn't a good place to keep secrets.  Is it?
We were in a running battle with a German cruiser.  Took some licks in the depth- charging, but we finally got our shot in: Cracked its back with one torpedo.  We went topside to survey damage.  Ship was already gone, but there was a lot of debris in the water, and Winters decides to go down on deck and haul some in. Middle of the Atlantic, and he wants to do a little souvenir hunting -- something for his fireplace mantle, think he said.  I tried to talk him out of it, but.... Anyway, the boat hit an underwater obstruction.  He fell, struck his head, went under before we could get to him.  Heard you were asking.
So he drowned.
No real secret -- already radioed Connecticut with news of the accident. (noting piss bucket) Maybe we got off on the wrong foot, Miss Paige.  Feel free to move about the forward sections of the --
Sorry, sir.  Humidity builds up, trips out the power buss.  I'll get right on it.
So would you reconsider England?  Finding a port there?
I'm sorry.
Sorry for what?
[She was] just asking about Winters.
And you told her....
The story.
 So what is it?  Identify.
Coming up astern, but....
Don't know what that is....
Shit of a saint....
Hooks!  They're using their hooks!
Lieutenant Brice!  What are your orders?
WHAT ARE YOUR ORDERS, MR. BRICE?
Who else?  Anyone?  IS EVERYBODY OUT?
Blow ballast!  All ahead flank!
Heading, sir?
Any goddamn heading -- just get us outta here!
Let's hope you do better at the Board of Inquiry.
Chief?  Take a look.
Look right to you?
We're sloughin' oil.  'Least 10 tons in the last 12 hours.
...somewhere in the port tank.  And if it's leaking here or here...it's dumping oil into main ballast.  Which means every time we surface or dive --
We leave a goddamn slick.
That's how.  That's how they been ridin' us.
This boat is cursed....
Figgera speech.
So how do we fix it?
Only one way.  From the outside-in.
Oh, they'll be linin' up for this job.
Odell, make ready some dive gear and pick two volunteers...
Aye-aye.
...beside yourself.
...so you want someone to free-dive outside...into coal-black water...make our way below the boat...locate the flood ports...slither in between the two hulls...
Find the leak and fix it.  That's right.
...at night...
Hang on.  If we're still submerged, that means the main tank's fulla water.
...in the dark...
Chief thinks with the tower flooded, that gives us enough weight to stay down even when there's air in the main.
...with depth charges and all this inexplicable shit happening.
Hey, you up to it or not?
News flash:  "Yeoman Wallace Leads Desperate Repair Mission."
Fuck, no.
I asked him to go.  Buddy system.
Explosions.  Starboard flank.  Long way off, though.
 You're greased.
Hey, when we first get out there? Everybody turn off their lights, okay?  Be really amazing.
Belay that, Wallace.
Holy Jamoley....
Musta sucked up a school of squid, one point....
They're in.
 Standing down for a while.
Good idea.  Little rack time, feel like a champ.
 How long should it take?
Once they find it?  Pretty straight- forward repair.
Easily said, from this side.
You guys, forward.  We'll check aft.
"Making his way through the chamber, redolent with the stench of dead and dying calamari...the trailing man realized... that it wasn't such a good idea to be the trailing man...."
"Found it."  [Should we] head back?
They found one.
"2330 hours:  We surface to confirm sinking of German ship.  Four officers go topside -- Commander Winters, myself, Lt. Loomis...
...and Lt. j.g. Steven Coors."
So the night we lost Old Man Winters...
Odd time to bring that up.
It's an odd place.  How did he bang his head?  'Fore he went over?
You heard.
I heard that the boat hit something -- but I never felt anything down below.
Let's keep movin'.
What?
Didn't say anything.
But what were you thinkin'?
Well, I used to hear about these dock workers who got welded up inside these kinda places -- and were never heard from again.
You are so fucking out of bounds with that shit, Wallace.
Stern tank, looks likes.
So anything I say stays here?  This side of the hull?  There were survivors from the sinking. Brice and Loomis even started to fish a few out.  But Winters had other ideas -- he ordered Brice to bring a gunnery party topside.  Well, three of us had a problem with machine-gunning these men right in the water -- even if they were Germans. There was an argument.  Got kinda heated.
Why didn't you tell us?
Guess we were trying to protect him, his memory.  Felt Winters was a good C.O. -- even if he could be a tough sonuvabitch, sometimes.  For his reputation...his family's sake....
Okay.  But I still don't understand how he hit his head.
Slippery metal...bad footing....
Accidents happen, right?
Coors!  Sound off!
Here?  Or aft?  Where was it?
Get him out, get him out of there...
Odell!  SOUND OFF!  ODELL!
Fuck of God, was that you?
Gimme the light, gimme the light, gimme the light....
Get him down....
Help me get him down.
Shut up...shut up...WOULD YOU GROW SOME DICKS AND SHUT UP!  Now where is Mr. Od...
...Coors.  Where's Coors?
Tell me that's him.  That's gotta be Coors.  He's still alive, right?
 Sir...that's the one person...I can guarantee it's not.
Don't touch...don't touch...
 Was that a "b"?  Dit-dot-dot-dot?
I didn't hear a "b".
Dit-dot.  "A".  Thought I heard an "a".
That's not morse.  Just some shit got caught up in the bow planes, now it's smacking up against --
"C".  Did you hear a "c"?
Dot-dit-dot-dit.  Definitely a "c".
Hull sounds.  You guys are gettin' lathered up about hull sounds.  Now would somebody please tell us what the hell happened to Coors?
"Back."  B-a-c-k.
 He's "back"...
WHERE'D YOU GET THE "K" FROM?
Dit-dot-dit.  While you were talking.
Hey, champ, you can stay out of this.  And the rest of you jugheads can --
Enough already.  In the wardroom, one minute.  Keep your mouths shut until we debrief.
There was no goddamn "k".
And the fuel leak.  It was repaired prior to....
Guess so.  Yeah, sure.  Just about had it sewed up when...when...
 So if weather's good, we surface tonight, run diesels topside while we charge the batteries.  Keep pushing for the barn.
 "The barn?"  Our "barn?"
Sir, southern ports of England couldn't be more than two days away.  Mr. Kingsley here is a navigational officer -- he should know the area and --
I know all the ports, the depths -- I know where the submarine nets are, the mine fields....
And have the R.A.F. bomb us?  Because they mistook us for a hostile boat?
There are safety-corridors that we could use when --
Considered and rejected.  Thank you.
Mr. Brice, we've lost both periscopes and our main sonar -- we're blind and nearly deaf down here.  The men are in a bad way, and two of our senior officers are now --
Welcome to the war, Odell.
This has nothing to do with the war.
Just how much longer can we not say what we're all thinking?  What, no one wants to be the first?  Fine, allow me:  This submarine is [haunted] --
Now hear this.  The loss of Lieutenant Coors is unfortunate but fails to affect our plans.  It's daylight now, but I expect to surface at 1900 tonight, recharge the batteries, then proceed on base course back to Connecticut.  That is all.
If you can find the back door on this boat, you're free to leave any time.  And if you can find in the regs where an ensign still working on his first can of Burma Shave sets the course, I'll gladly give you the conn.  Until that time, I'd ask that you not say anything that might further agitate this crew.  Or me.
Stay out of my way, Odell.
Not so bad.  Just knock the nose around a bit, and we're back on base.  Make it 2-8-
Right standard rudder.  Make it 2-8-5, true.
2-8-5, true.
You're over-steering, helmsman.
Yessir, just getting some...resistance from the rudder.
 Chief of Boat to control room...Chief of Boat to control room...
Awright, belay that, BELAY THAT!
 Nasty shimmy.
 Rudder amidships, sir.
 Some kinda hydraulic failure....
Maybe the I-M-O pump, but never heard anything quite like --
Well, get on it, huh?  Christ, musta overshot our heading by....
170 degrees.
 Rudder malfunction.  And when we tried to shut down the props?  No dice -- wouldn't respond.  We're on a runaway boat, fellas. Now can anyone top that?
Well, I had a strange thought.
Take a number.
Yeah, but this one's really...creepshow stuff.
What if...when we took on that Kraut ship ...we didn't sink them?  What if...and I'm just battin' ideas around here, don't nobody get excited...what if they sank us?
 Oh, good twist.
I don't get it.
Might explain how that dead Kraut talked to Stumpie, since, you see...
I don't get it.
 And the controls...they froze up because ...they've rusted up...because we're actually on the bottom of the ocean. Flooded out.
'Course, not sure what all that pounding was about....
Rescue divers.  Pounding on the hull. Only they're too late.
So everything we're doing -- playing cards, trying to make repairs -- maybe it's all happenin' in some kinda....
"Slop-world."
Shit.  I get it.
Very good twist.
Hydrogen...CO2...ozone from the electrical shorts -- that's what we're breathin' right now, and it's makin' all you guys loopier than a roller coaster.  We got mechanical problems.  That's all.  So what's new?
'Course, we haven't got any radio messages lately.
Sweet-and-sour Jesus.  Hand me a pot to beat him with.
When was the last one?  Before or after the sinking?
Orders to pick up the Brits.
There you go.  After.  Now pinch this shit off, wouldja?
'Less it happened during the depth charging.
Remember that one?  Rolled right down our deck?
So exactly how far from England are we?
Can I ask why you're asking.
No.
Right.  What's our heading?
Zero-nine-five.
 Looks like the last star-fix, here...and at this latitude, variation 'tween true north and magnetic north....
 Looking for a back door, are we?
Just in case this boat can't make it home. For whatever reason.
...I-M-O pumps check out.  But the rudder has a dedicated line all the way to the stern.  If we can tap into that somewhere abaft, should regain our steering....
Where would you tap in?
After battery room.
Little dicey, isn't it?  Without venting first?
Just threading up new hydraulics.  No welding.
What are we at, anyway?
13 percent, down in the --
13 percent hydrogen?
Keep your voice down.
Look, I don't know any other way to regain control of this boat.  Do you?
Make sure you're sealed off -- don't need a repeat of the Hindenburg here.  And let's keep this quiet, huh?
You don't want the men to know?
Fewer the better.
 Like it's a bloody mechanical problem....
What is this?  What happened here?
Guardian angelfish.  Took the second-place team trophy in the Army-Navy bowling tournament with that fish watching over me.
Awright, we take no chances, make no mistakes.  This is the line we wanna tap. Rag your tools.
 Grab some chow.  I'll let you know when we're ready to surface.
'Tenant?  A word?
One sec, champ.  My watches are gettin' all --
Now, Mr. Loomis.
That is a whale, isn't it?
What else would it be?
...now maybe it's just a coincidence...I know Coors wasn't too sure about his fix to begin with...but it sure seems like we're going right back to where we sunk the German ship.  Where we lost Winters.
Hey, Pappy?  "Second-place team trophy in the Army-Navy tournament...."  Isn't that sorta like "last place?"
Okay.  Let's repressurize the line from this point aft -- see if we can't put the brakes on this little joyride once and for --
I'll reset the buss.
Hey, Chief?  You know we tripped out back --
Shut that goddamn door before I shut it with your goddamn --
What are you saying, Odell?  It's not a coincidence?  Somebody put us on this course?
Just asking the question.
Lemme ask one.  Where were you when the rudder went over?  Huh? (off Odell's baffled look) This course heads back to England -- and I've noticed you've had a hard-on for anything English.  So where were you, Odell?  Back of the boat, messin' with the rudder assembly?  Or did you get some motormac to do it for --
That's so stupid I can't even --
Not as stupid as what you're thinkin'. I'm tired of this hoodoo horseshit.  It's not what you think it is.  It's not even remotely fucking possible, okay?
Engine room, how much longer?
After room, see the Chief in the engine room, ask him to respond.  After room?
Mr. Hoag, report.  Crew quarters, report.  Anybody, pick up your 1MC.
It's warm.
Break out some lungs.
Two is enough.  Everyone else stays.
I don't see anyone else here with medical training. (off his stony look) What're you going to do?  Put me off the boat?  Let's go.
"His intelligence getting the better of him, Wallace chose not to lead the mission this time...."
Loomis?  'Smatter?
Change out my scrub....
Back here!  Awright, we found you, we found you... how're the legs?  Can you feels your toes? Anything at all?
Don't try....
No, no, no, you're going to pull through....
Don't try and stop me....
Especially you....
Clear out.  Now.  Batteries are still arcing.  C'mon, Claire -- we could be next.
What happened?  Odell?
Somethin'...somethin' kicked off the hydrogen and...and they're all...they're all....
"They're all?"
MR. LOOMIS?
Outta here...outta here...gotta get the hell outta here....
Loomis!  Get back here!
WE GOTTA GET OFF THIS BOAT!
Loomis!  There's nowhere to go!
 Did he...even have....
Try again.  One, two, three.
C'mon you tight bitch, give....
What the hell is wrong here?  If we could blow the main, get to the surface...but I don't know how to fix this friggin' stuff....
Even if you could -- the real problem wouldn't be fixed, would it?
I think it's time we were told about "Old Man Winters."  Everything.
 Keep trying, huh?
 All I know is what Coors told me...that Winters wanted to shoot the German survivors, shoot them right there in the water.  Brice, Loomis, Coors -- they wanted to help.  Apparently Winters lost the argument.
And I'm just repeating.
Well, I count two versions of the story. How many more do you suppose there are?
Mr. Brice?
Lieutenant?
Certain he went back here?  Here?
Looking for me?
 Just, uh, reporting that we haven't been able to repair the electrical.  Heating's down, too.  Ballast levers are inoperable, probably jammed during the depth-charging, Stumbo's working on it now.  We show 90 pounds of compressed air left in the 600- pound system, and I'm wondering if we should save that for when we try and surface -- or use it now to breathe.
Shinola....
Sir?
Running out of Shinola, too.
We also came to ask about Commander Winters.  If there's anything else you want to tell us about that night...something that may help us understand...why.
 Sir, do you have any idea why this boat seems to be going back to where the skipper died?
Don't pretend you don't know.  Just don't pretend anymore.
Well, wasn't that awkward.
Maybe Hoag was right...maybe we already bought it....
If not the depth charge, then the hydrogen ...if not the hydrogen, then maybe the cold...if not that, then we got Heap Big Evil Spirit battin' clean-up.  Too many. I mean, shit, there should only be so many ways a guy can die.  Ain't fair....
Stumbo, CO2 hangs low -- it's working its way from the floor up.  Gotta stay on your feet.
Maybe we're just gonna die over and over again....
Stumbo.  I need you to keep workin' on the ballast controls.  We need them to surface, okay?
...stuck in some vicious "slop-world" cycle....
Feel that?
You fucking whore!
Then you're still alive, aren't you?
Easy, lads....
Hey, hey, maybe there's some kinda... pulley or wench, or....  Isn't there a come-along in the forward room?  Can't we use that?
 Yeah, but....
Let's go, Stumbo.  We'll do it together.
So tell me why.  Tell me why these three officers would kill their skipper and conspire to cover it up.  That's what you're thinking, isn't it?
If I am, I see I'm not alone.
Loomis was up for a major citation, okay? Brice was in line for his own command, Annapolis, naval family...Coors had this Irish girl up in Boston, they were talkin' about....  These guys had everything to live for, Claire.
By that thinking, had everything to lose, too.
"Why."  I haven't head "why."
"Don't pretend you don't know."  What the hell could he have....  Are we missing somebody?
Wallace?  Wallace, sound off.
Wallace?
I am trying to read here.
Look, running out of plays in the playbook.  If you have any ideas on how to get control of this boat....
"They scoffed at him...tried to silence him...yet in their most dire hour, they turned to Wallace for understanding...." (indicating a stack of pulps) I've been checking the literature on the subject, and the thing we know about maledictions is --
"Maledictions?"
Look it up.  "Maledictions" don't issue from heaven or hell, but some unresolved place in between.  In fact, there's a great description of it in "The Natives of Netherworld," a novella by Pierce Milestone which opens in --
Wallace?  We're running out of air.
Suffice to say, the malediction needs satisfaction in order to escape its netherworld.
And if you had to guess what would satisfy our "malediction"....
I thought it was obvious. (off their blank faces) Old Man Winters never got a chance to go down with his ship.  Did he?
Okay, okay, I'm gonna take care of it right now.
Don't....
Just bleed a little air into the control room, just enough to --
Need it to surface...said so yourself....
I don't know how much we need.  But we'll die down here if we don't do something soon.  And you'll be the first, Claire.
Just let me...please, let me have....
 Keep watch.  If she gets any worse, find me.
[I] gather you're religious....
Just in case he is.
2230:  Sight target believed to be German cruiser.  Winters orders flank speed to close target and gain a firing angle...
2315:  Loomis checks target profile against I.D. log, matching it to Berlin class.  I personally verify match.
2320:  Single torpedo fired from #4 tube. Heard the strike, followed by collapsing bulkheads.
2330:  We surface to confirm sinking. Four officers go topside -- Commander Winters, myself, Lt. Loomis, and Lt. j.g. Steven Coors....
Claire?  What're you doing in here?
German cruiser, Berlin class...type Brice said you sunk...and my ship...Fort James.
Are you telling me...that the German submarine Kingsley saw....
Wasn't.
But it was an accident.
Not leaving us in the water to die.  They had to hear the calls for help.  In English.
And you think that Winters would actually just....  Or do you think that he wanted to pick up survivors...and that maybe it was...
Who mis-i.d.'d the ship?  Who had everything to lose?
Either batteries finally crapped out, or....
Or we're here.
Let's use that air!
Oh, fuck me, this is it!
I hate being right.
Keep cranking, keep cranking!
Goin' down!  He's gonna take us all down!
No.  No, no, no....
It's working.
JUST LIKE I SAID!  WE'RE RISING, WE'RE RISING!
All right.  Okay.  We do this fast. Stumbo, see if we can drain the tower.  If we can't get out that way, we use the forward trunk.  Wallace, see about raising the radio mast for a distress call.
Hey....  Hey, guys....  We have contact on SJ radar!  4,000 yards starboard bow!
Lemme see, lemme see....
Same contact?  Same German cruiser?
If we're back in the shipping lanes, could be a merchantman.  Could be British.
Wallace, raise the mast, issue a radio challenge on the RAL-6.  Get that ship to i.d. itself before....
Well done, Mr. Odell.  But I'm feeling much better now.
You were saying?
We have a contact.  And maybe an opportunity.
"An opportunity...."
To abandon ship.
I don't know that's a friendly out there. Just because you hope it is, doesn't make it so.  And if it is a hostile --
I think it's better to scuttle and take our chances with a surface vessel, any surface vessel, rather than --
And tell Connecticut what?  Hmmm?  That we scuttled a fleet submarine because we lost a few men carrying out our mission?
"Few men?"  Lieutenant....
That we panicked?  Lost our heads?  Hmmm? That a handful of people disagreed with their superior officer, ignored the chain- of-command, and took matters into their own...their own hands....
We have a chance, maybe one, to get off this sewer pipe you call a "boat," and we need to take it.  Now.
We'll wait right here.
Seeing as how there's a lull in the conversation...contact at 2,500 yards. Might cross astern.
Mr. Wallace.  No matter what Mr. Brice says, I want you to go to the radio shack and establish voice contact with that --
Belay that, Wallace!  You are not the skipper here, Mr. Odell!
And neither are you, sir!
Rain squall.  Little luck, he won't see us in all this [weather]....
It's really not safe up here, Miss Paige.
Stumpie, Wallace, with me.
We're going below now.
Bury everybody and bury the truth!  Is that it, Brice?
Time to go.
Like this.  This is how I go.
If that's your plan, get on with it. Because I am done being scared.  GET ON WITH IT, YOU FUCKING COWARD!
Know how these work?
Mortar tubes in both torpedo rooms, but I've never --
Try.
 800 yards!  It'll be a close shave!
 "Just leave."  "They'll blame it on a U- boat."  "Just get outta here and they'll never fucking know...CHAMP!"
Kept looking for some way...to take it back...make it end right...some way without dishonoring Winters, but...I was going to wear this uniform back to port and now [it's ruined]....  What should I do, Miss Paige?
You let me have the light.  You let me signal for help.
That's the right ending.
Finally figured out why he didn't kill me, too.... (like it's the secret of life) He didn't have to.
NO!
Dear God, it didn't see us....
Again, Stumbo!  Again!
They saw.  British freighter.  They saw and they acknowledged.
Weren't the first woman that ever slapped me -- and won't be the last.  But well done, Miss Paige.
Well done, Mr. Stumbo.
Thought I'd turn the 4-inch guns on your boat, help you scuttle her.  But looks like someone beat me to it.
So what would you say?  If you were the one who had to go back and explain it all?
 Seems unlikely, doesn't it?  Now.
Have you considered it?  That maybe when Winters died, he just died?  Period?  And the rest of it...I mean, the kind of air we were breathing...does things to your brain.
You say what you have to say, ensign.  But I'll always know what happened down there.
