Thank you for your patience. Your call is important to us. We will be with you shortly.
Mrs Greenslade, thank you for
Mrs Greenslade, since the account is not in your name, before we can make any changes we need to speak to the account holder. Can I please talk to the account holder?
What?
I'm asking if I can speak to the account holder. Before we can make any changes -
You can't talk to him, no.
We're late.
Bloody retirement parties. Hard cheese, soft wine, and endless speeches. Why do people do that? No one ever said about any kind of party: it was a wonderful occasion, just a shame that the speeches were so short.
it'll be you one day.
One day very soon.
You've been saying that for years. They walk into a large room, full of lawyers.
An occasion such as this leads one to cast ones mind back to the days when I first entered my pupillage. I had the very good fortune of serving as a junior to Mr Justice Stancombe Graham's not listening any more. He's looking around the room. At the old, tired faces.
. the unwelcome news that I would transfer Chambers, bringing to mind the old adage a fronte praecipitium, a tergo 1upi Everything seems to slow down, the judge's mouth moving more and more sluggishly, though his voice remains the same. The effect is strange .. then the sound of laughter.
This is the day. Everyone looks round at him. He's almost as surprised as they are that he's spoken out loud.
Graham?
This is the day. He turns and walks out.
Listen, young lady. I want a cup of tea, and I want it now.
The trolley will be along shortly.
How hard d'you have to fall down before you get some proper attention? Hours I've been lying here, and not a single doctor has come to see me.
Now that's not quite true, is it Mrs Donnelly?
A doctor did try and examine you, and you sent him away.
That one? She looks up to the far end of the ward, where a doctor is washing his hands. He's black.
He can wash all he likes, that colour's not coming out. I want an English doctor.
An English doctor? Why didn't you say so? I'll get one right away. She goes away, comes back moments later with a tall, handsome doctor. The bad news for Muriel is
This is Dr Ghujarapartidar. And this is Mrs Donnelly.
A mobility scooter carrying an elderly resident trundles down the road.
.. with an unlimited range of leisure opportunities just a stone's throw away...
So as I say, what you're looking at here is very competitively priced, you can't get better value for your grey pound. Another little feature, not necessary right now, but give it a couple of years
What if we fell somewhere else?
Sorry?
It's just that we might not manage to plan our sudden fall in the exact corner where the button is.
Yeah. As I say -
And would it be possible to get the rail to go through the middle of the room as well?
To help us get across, not just around?
Thirty years in the Civil Service and this is all we can afford?
Would it help if I apologized again?
No. But try it anyway.
And then after that I worked as a systems analyst for a few years but I just found it so dull, what I really wanted was to do something that was more creative, that matched my ...
That's right, yes. So did I. They're at a speed dating evening. Numbered tables, etc.
Anyway, don't stop. Something
How old are you?
Early 40's.
D'you mean you were born in the early 40's?
Judy, I know what you're asking -
It's Judith.
Judith. And trust me, I've still got it. The bell goes; the signal for the women to get up and move along to the next table. Judith leaves without looking back.
I just can't find anyone that wants it. Another hopeful candidate arrives opposite Norman. And looks crestfallen at what's on offer.
This is crazy. You're crazy. You can't just up and leave like this.
And yet if you watch me, that's exactly what you'll see happen. She picks up her suitcases, heads out of the room. Madge's daughter JESSICA is on the landing.
What's going on?
Your mother's lost it.
My mother never had it.
Talk to her. She doesn't listen to me.
Nobody listens to you. She heads down the stairs. Craig and Jessica follow.
I still don't understand what's going on.
I just asked her to babysit. And now she says she's leaving. They're at the bottom of the stairs. Jessica's children, LIAM and KATIE, are watching.
But you love babysitting.
I loved it last night.
We had pizza and stayed up late.
And the night before.
We had Chinese and stayed up late.
If you don't go, tonight we could do a curry.
It's tempting, my darlings, but you know why I must leave.
We know.
 Being here is stopping her finding a husband.
Another one?
Don't let the buggers get you down. Madge turns to go.
How many husbands have you had, anyway? She turns back, smiles.
Including my own? Then she's out of the front door, and heading for the taxi.
Mother? Mother!
Name the place, darling. Where are you going? Madge smiles.
I have absolutely no idea.
There's no other way There just isn't. Harold told us this three months ago.
And I'm afraid matters have only got worse.
We can't wait any longer. We need to put this flat on the market, and at least make a start at paying off Dad's debts.
I've talked it through with Polly and the boys, and of course we all agreed. Ma will move in with us.
I think that's best, Evelyn. It's what Hugh would've wanted. They wait for confirmation from Evelyn. None comes.
Good. Settled. End of discussion.
That's what your father used to say.
When there'd never really been any discussion at all.
I want to look after things for you.
Like he did for forty years
Yes.
And look how that turned out. She turns to Harold
How can any of us know what Hugh would've wanted? And would he have seen fit to tell us anyway?
You need a new hip, Mrs Donnelly. It's not a difficult operation.
Easy for you to say, you're not having it.
Regardless. You do need a new hip.
I'm not getting it from you.
Not me personally, no.
Not any of your lot.
I see.
So when do I have the operation?
I'm afraid you'll be on a waiting list for at least six months.
At my age, I can't plan that far ahead. I don't even buy green bananas.
There is another way. Our hospital trust is funding a new pilot scheme, that will enable us to out-source you to another hospital, where they can perform the procedure almost immediately, and at a fraction of the cost.
Is it local?
That depends how you define local.
Around Evelyn's room are packing boxes, some already full.
How far along is the progress bar? The strip at the bottom that tells you -
I know what it is. What are you showing me anyway?
As Christopher gapes in horror, he hears a mellifluous Indian voice.
'Come and spend your autumn years in an Indian palace with the sophistication of an English country manor. Steeped in the tradition of the Raj, tucked away on the outskirts of Jaipur .'
it exudes historical ambience and is graced with breathtaking surroundings .'
I wouldn't mind going there myself.
There won't be any golf courses.
Just as well. I can't afford the green fees.
But a retirement home? Douglas misses his putt.
It's a luxury development, where all the residents are in their golden years.
Like the Costa Brava.
Yes. But with more elephants. Simon holes out.
How long have we known each other? And you've never once talked about India.
D'you want these books?
You might need them again. Graham smiles at him, calls out.
Mrs Megson! His cleaner, MRS MEGSON, comes in.
Sir? Graham takes a beautiful vase off the shelf, gives it to her.
I want you to have this.
Are you sure?
Absolutely. There's a slight crack on the bottom. But I think you might know something about that already. Mrs Megson goes.
I used to live there. A long time ago.
I have to go. I do. And I could say I wish you'd come, but I've never lied to you. We both know I need more than you can offer. We know that. Don't we? We see who's sitting in front of him. An ancient dachshund.
 Don't make that face at me. Norman's Polish landlady, MRS JELLINEK, is at the door.
 You. Upstairs. The dog hops off the chair, and leaves. Norman watches him go. MRS JELLINEK Any warm clothes you have use for no more, I take them. And not forget to leave keys when you go. She leaves. Norman is left alone.
I'll miss you too.
You know who'll be there, don't you? Indians. Loads of them, A sea of brown faces and black hearts, all greasy haired and reeking of spices. Never see one on their own, do you? No, becuase they hunt in packs. All the better to rob me blind and -
You know what? You can take it from here.
You're supposed to see me into my flat. That's what they said.
My wife is from Mumbai. He heads off. Muriel shouts after him.
No good moaning to me, mate. You married her! But he's gone. Muriel wheels herself on over the bumpy ground.
You're sure your tickets are in order?
They should be. The hotel paid for them. I'm sure they'd rather have us there than not. And its fantastically cheap for the first three months.
I wonder why. They walk on in silence.
How will we know you're alright?
I'll call. They do have phones there, you know. Or you can just read my blog.
Your what?
On the interweb. You can log in whenever you like, read my news.
I just hope the first item will be announcing your return. I don't suppose they'll be paying for the journey back...? Evelyn stops. They've reached the terminal.
Could you please, before I go, say one thing that is supportive? Because I've never done anything like this before.
Without Dad, you never did anything at all. And i don't think you'll be able to cope.
Well. I suppose we'll find out, won't we? They head into the building.
And the connecting flight to Jaipur is first class too? The check-in girl nods, hands Madge back her passport.
I tell you, it's tough to get upgraded nowadays. I had to flirt so hard with the travel agent, it was practically phone sex.
Norman appears to be relishing a detailed search from a female Security Guard.
Come on. Thorough as you like Muriel is waiting to collect her bag from the belt.
We'd like to take a look in this bag, Madam, if you don't mind. He lifts the bag onto a table. It's heavier than he thought.
What you got in here anyway? He opens the bag, stares in astonishment.
PG Tips. Brown sauce. Ten jars of Marmite. Thirty one packets of Chocolate Hobnobs. Pickled onions. Pickled eggs. And pickle.
No liquids on the plane.
What does that mean?
It means you can't take the pickled onions. Or the pickled eggs.
Norman arrives, carrying his battery radio, sees an empty place between Jean and Madge, who is sitting at the end. He smiles knowingly at Madge as he sits. Finally Evelyn takes the only available space, between Graham and Douglas. And there the seven passengers wait patiently, unaware of their common fate. The sound of a jet engine, quiet at first, finally engulfs them.
Obviously one's read one's Kipling, but we view this as an opportunity to explore another culture, as well as making new friends. And a retired judge is just the class of guest one was hoping for, isn't it Douglas?
I'm sorry?
You don't seem like an experienced traveller.
I'm not. Although one has read one's guidebooks. Jean blinks. Evelyn and Graham share a smile. Douglas hides his. And Madge sees it all. As they head towards the baggage carousel, they're met by Muriel and Norman, emerging from the elevator. Norman is pushing Muriel's wheelchair.
Norman Cousins.
Madge Hardcastle. A pleasure.
Play your cards right, it could be. Madge stares at him. A voice comes over the tannoy.
Ladies and gentlemen, we regret to inform you that owing to bad weather, Flight 105 to Jaipur has been cancelled. The airline is happy to arrange
After a moment, Graham says
Alright. Plan B.
Of course it's a good idea. Who can you trust if not a High Court Judge?
And this way we see more of the country. Norman is pushing Muriel's wheelchair.
(leaning down, to
If anyone asks, say you're my mother. I don't want people to think we're together.
In your dirty dreams.
Douglas, these are not words that often pass my lips, but you may actually be right. The country seems to be rather more civilised than one originally thought.
 The bus will drop us in the centre of town. We can take tuk- tuks the rest of the way! They follow him through the hordes. And see their bus. It's absolutely rammed. People are practically hanging out of the windows.
There's not enough room.
It's time to prove the first and only rule of India: there's always room. He starts to fight his way to the door. Evelyn's at the back. She stops, for a moment, looks around her.
What larks, Pip. Douglas is just ahead of her. He turns, smiles.
Let's hope so.
I'm loving this! Evelyn is sitting next to Madge.
A few months ago I was organising the church flowers.
Are you struggling with the feeling you're not in control of your circumstances?
A little.
You know what the shortest prayer in the world is?
No.
Fuck it. Evelyn laughs.
You're not doing the church flowers any more. May as well enjoy the ride. Douglas is watching a nice Indian family. They're having a picnic. The father notices Douglas looking, offers him some food. Douglas makes the namaste gesture, takes some happily.
Are you insane? "Avoid all food not from a reputable vendor, it will have been washed with impure water." Douglas keeps eating, with great enjoyment.
It's just a sandwich.
Marvellous. Then I'll have the ham, cheese, and streptococcus, please. Or perhaps the bacteria, lettuce and tomato. Douglas turns to Muriel.
Would you like some of this? I believe it's aloo ka paratha.
If I can't pronounce it, I'm not eating it. The cacophony of horns continues. Jean screams, as another collision looms.
How long since you were here?
Forty years.
As long as I was married.
I'm sorry.
D'you think we're going to be alright?
God, don't ask me. I'm more scared than you are. They both smile, sit in silence for a bit.
Yes. I think it's going to be extraordinary.
What exactly is a tuk-tuk?
Welcome to India!!! They stare up at him.
Sonny is leading Madge into the darkness of the building, towards her room.
This is a building of the utmost character, which means that perhaps not everything will function in the way you expect it to. But as the manager and chief executive supervising officer of the Marigold Hotel, I can tell you with great pride that the building has stood for centuries, and will stand for many more, in 100% shipshape condition. Please follow me, carefully avoiding that naughty stone there round this corner, leading us most successfully all the way to . your bedroom! The room is very small, comfortable, and tastefully decorated. But there's no door.
Where?
Here. In here.
My dear man. Rooms have doors. What you're showing me here is an alcove.
The door is coming soon, most definitely.
How soon?
Let us not concern ourselves with details, Mrs Hardcastle. Rather than speaking of doors, we should instead take pleasure in the freedom to roam.
Does your room have a door?
Oh yes.
Then that's where I'll be staying.
Bird in the room! Bird in the room! Jean pushes him aside, goes on in. Several pigeons are flying around in some panic.
There's an Indian in there! Graham smiles, goes on into his room. Which is dusty, but comfortable and pleasant. He looks around with satisfaction.
My what?
Your physiotherapist. To help with your recovery after the operation.
You're not touching me.
Traditionally that is how physiotherapy is practised.
He walks through the room, hangs his battery radio on a hook and leans out of the balcony, surveying the view.
This'll do.
I want to stay at the other hotel, the one in the brochure.
Mrs Ainslie, prepare to be amazed. This is that very building!
You've Photoshopped it!
I have offered a vision of the future.
Of course I had hoped that by now it would be the present. But in India we have a saying: everything will be alright in the end. So if it is not alright, then it is not yet the end.
What will start to make this alright is for you to give us a refund.
Of course if that is what you desire, you must have it. Absolutely no problem, I will refund you completely.
You will? Straight away?
Without question, Mrs Ainslie, I most definitely will. Straight away in three months.
a stay of five days and it is done under general anaesthesia. A hip replacement usually takes only two hours
Your surgeon will remove the top end of the thigh bone, and insert an artificial bone instead. A most routine procedure.
Have you got a marker pen on you?
Why?
I want to mark it. So you don't take the wrong hip.
Oh, hello.
Is everything alright?
I was just going to find the manager.
I'm afraid he's dealing with my wife. Or vice versa.
I promised I'd call my son, to tell him I'd arrived, and -
And the phone in your room doesn't work. May I?
Now, did you try jiggling it a bit?
Yes, did that.
Did you kind of bang it lightly on the desk a few times?
That too.
Hmm. He twists off the mouthpiece of the receiver, lifts the receiver carefully. And blows on it.
How did you come to be here? In India.
I invested our - well, my - retirement money in our daughter's internet company. She assured me that as soon as the start-up actually started up, and the conversion from virtual to actual proved sufficiently viable, then she would be able to pay it all back.
I'm not sure I understand what most of those words mean.
It turns out neither did she. Douglas has put the mouthpiece back on, holds the receiver to his ear.
There you are. Good as new.
Really?
No, of course not. I've got no idea what I'm doing. Evelyn bursts out laughing.
Now, would you like me to not fix that chair? Because I can do that too.
In honour of your arrival, a special welcome British roast for you all!
.Cooked lovingly by myself and my most loyalist factotum and helper, Young Wasim ... He points to YOUNG WASIM. Who is about 80, and is sitting in the corner, fast asleep.
Roast what?
A wonderful taste of Blighty.
Roast what?
Roast goat curry.
Yes please.
So the upshot is that he's spent all our money getting us here, and we can't leave till he's made some more. Muriel has arrived at her table.
Gentle friends, you have found your way to this place, bequeathed to me by my beloved father, that I have raised from the ruins of his broken dreams, and renamed The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel For The Elderly And Beautiful. Yes, I use the words most deliberately... Norman is not looking very well at all. Sonny doesn't notice, keeps on going.
.You have all heard the chimes at midnight, and long in tooth have youbecome. Who knowshow many daysyou have left?But we are mosthonoured that youhave chosen tospend that time with us. Norman's head suddenly tips forward, and he falls from his chair onto the floor.
Let me through, please. My brother is a doctor. He kneels next to Norman, and checks his watch as he feels for a pulse. Everybody waits. And then
This man is dead. An appalled silence.
Please, we must cover his face. We should preserve his dignity at this terrible moment. Madge looks around. All there is is a napkin. She passes it Sonny, who lays it over the face of Norman. Who promptly coughs.
He just coughed. I heard him cough!
He moved! He's alive!
He's fainted, that's all. Sonny shakes his watch next to his ear. It's stopped. Norman sits up.
What's going on? Did I nod off? Everyone crowds round Norman, helps lift him back up. Except Muriel. She just stares at them all.
Hell. I'm in hell.
Day Nine. Old habits die easier than we think, and new ones form.
No longer do I reach out in the morning for Radio 4. My news comes instead from the Jaipur
. Soon I might even grow accustomed to the storm of car horns and vendors.
Can there be anywhere else in the world that is such an assault on the senses?
Those who know the country of old just go about their business. But nothing can prepare the uninitiated for this riot of noise and colour ...
Inside the car, Jean looks utterly traumatized, shrinking lower in her seat as a horde of kids swarm at the windows, shouting, wheedling, gesticulating. Sonny does his best to wave them away.
... for the heat, the motion, the perpetual teeming crowds. Sonny is conducting his own personal assault on our senses
with the flow of exotic dishes he demands daily from the kitchen. Mooli Moong Dal. Baghara Baingan. Banjari Gosht. Paneer Methi Chaman ... As the list unfolds, the guests, one by one, enter their bathrooms; a litany of doors closing Until Norman. EVELYN Mutton Vindaloo ... Norman lies on his bed, reading the Kama Sutra. He spins the book round, in order to study an illustration more intently.
Initially you're overwhelmed. But gradually you realise: it's like a wave. Resist, and you'll be knocked over ... Sonny is in discussion with some doctors. Then he turns to see that Muriel has vanished. Through the window Muriel can be seen frantically wheeling herself away down the path... EVELYN Dive into it, and you'll swim out the other side.
This is a new and different world.
The challenge is to cope with it.
And not just cope ... but thrive.
Evelyn approaches them, holding up a piece of paper.
Please, can anyone direct me to this address? Evelyn's piece of paper gets passed around: none of the kids can read. An older boy finally points. Suddenly there's lots of pointing.
Thank you. She goes to move, but the kids are still all around her.
I'm sorry, I don't . I don't really have much ... She gives them the contents of her pockets.
Alright? Alright now? Goodbye. She starts to walk, is surprised that the entire posse of kids walks with her. In fact, the group seems to be growing exponentially. She looks like the Pied Piper.
Graham was talking about this marvellous temple. I thought you might want to come with me.
I'm your wife. Have we met?
You'd really rather stay here all day?
Given the alternative, yes.
When I walk out in the morning, the street kids all smile at me.
Because you give them money.
One does this trick where he holds his hands out in front of himself, and then swings through his own arms. Got to be worth a rupee or two.
Evelyn has somehow made it to the central reservation. She takes a deep breath, and plunges into the maze of traffic, heading for the other side.
Graham gets out, and stands in the street, dwarfed by a huge modern building, some months away from completion.
This can't be right, surely?
I am thinking so, saab.
But there were houses all along here . these were homes.
I can take you some other place..?
No. That'll do for now. Thank you. He hands over some money, and Pravesh pedals away. Graham turns to look at the boys playing cricket. One of them, SANJAY, is batting.
Excuse me. There used to be
All knocked down.
And the people? The families?
They move. Graham nods, turns to look at the giant structure that has taken over, then turns back.
Don't grip so tightly with your right hand. Sanjay looks puzzled.
On the bat. The right is just a guide. Keep your left elbow high, play down the line of your arm, and then you'll hit through
Sanjay looks at him, squinting in the sun.
When can I go back to England?
As soon as you can walk onto the plane. How does the hip feel?
They must have got lucky.
It's strange. I think the more operations they perform, the luckier they get. He glances down at Muriel, who betrays no signof getting Ajit's joke.
As she tries to find her way out, she becomes aware that she is being watched: the walls are full of doorways, and people have come out to stare at her. She has stumbled into their home. Evelyn tries to suppress her panic, turning from one face to another.
I'm so sorry. I didn't realise - She backs into a kind of flatbed trolley, piled high with cooking utensils, which clatter noisily to the ground. She goes to pick them up.
Oh, I'm dreadfully sorry... A man is staring at her: SURESH.
Yes.
I'm sorry, I'm just trying to get to this address.
Yes.
Do you understand me? Can you help me find this place?
Yes.
Is that yes you understand, or yes you can help me?
Yes. Some of the children who have gathered laugh at this, and the tension is broken slightly.
Let's go with both, shall we?
A boy runs off to fetch the ball. Graham half-runs, half- walks to the other end, then turns for a second run, breathing heavily. Then walks back to the crease, gets ready for the next delivery. It's hot and he's tired, but he hasn't felt this good for years.
Give me the ball. I can take him. He turns cheerily to Graham.
Down is where you're going, Uncle.
Come on. Do your worst. They're both enjoying the banter, as Sanjay heads back to the beginning of his run-up, then turns and sprints in to bowl. As Graham watches Sanjay running towards him, Sanjay seems to slow, his movements becoming sluggish, never seeming to reach the crease. He looks at the faces of the other boys, frozen, waiting. The ball seems to take forever to leave Sanjay's hand. Graham steps back, completely fails to play a stroke, and is bowled.
That's what I'm talking about! I felt the need, the need for - Graham still hasn't moved.
Are you alright, Uncle? Graham finds his voice at last.
Yes. Yes, I'm fine.
Yes. Suresh helps Evelyn down off the back.
Thank you.
Yes.
This is it?
Yes.
Then thank you. You're very kind.
Yes. He rides off. Evelyn looks nervously up at the building.
Thank you for talking to us today We do appreciate your call while I have you on the phone, can I talk to you about our special offers . your call is important to us . now is there anything else I can help you with ... shouldn't take more than five minutes . your custom is valuable to us
I'm afraid I'll have to refer that to my supervisor just a routine security check before we start . Thank you for talking to us today Through a glass partition, Evelyn can be seen sitting at a desk, talking to someone.
You're sure I can't offer you something? We have English Breakfast Tea. Building Tea, as you call it.
Builder's tea. It's called builder's tea. And no, I'm fine. Thank you.
Tell me then. How can I help you? Beat.
I don't think you can. I'm sorry, I shouldn't have come. She stands.
I saw your advertisement in the local paper, and it specifically mentioned the ability to talk to older people. But this is not what I imagined ...
You came for a job?
I've wasted your time.
Mrs Greenslade. Everyone working here is a graduate of a good university. This is a place for ambitious people. Young people.
I see that. Good day.
Please. One second. Evelyn stops.
It is really builder's tea?
Yes. We dunk biscuits into it.
You dunk?
It means lowering a biscuit into your tea, letting it soak in there, then trying to calculate the exact moment just before it dissolves to whip it up to the mouth, and enjoy the blissful union of biscuit and tea combined.
Perhaps you can help us after all.
We do appreciate your custom, which is very important to us. And can I draw your attention to our special - But the person at the other end has hung up. Sunaina starts to dial another number. Then the clock hits 11, and a buzzer sounds. Sunaina gets up, heads for the door.
I get two breaks in eight hours. Explain to me why I would want to waste one of them with you -
Leave this place. Come and work for me.
You can't afford me.
I cannot afford anything.
Still tempting. I miss you. Am I coming round tonight?
Let's meet somewhere else. I will rent a hotel room.
Sonny, you own a hotel. It has many rooms.
Some of them now occupied. With actual real guests.
Paying guests?
Why must you nitpick? It is not an attractive quality.
It isn't? They kiss again, start to make out a bit. Then
Sunaina! They turn to see Jay who has come out of the Call Centre.
 You can let go of my sister now. Break's over.
Hello Jay.
Sonny boy.
Don't call me that. Jay smiles, holds the door open for Sunaina.
Let's go.
Good evening, Your Honour.
Mrs Ainslie. I hope you had a good day. What did you get up to?
Well, I started in my bedroom, where I had a lovely couple of hours giving all the cockroaches names. Then after a lunch that will long have a place in my heartburn, I came out here and stared blindly at a book waiting for someone - anyone to rescue me. And how glad I am it was you.
Why would you not go out? There's so much to see. Jean had hoped for some appreciation of her wit, and is floored by his question. She can hardly understand, let alone tell him, the depths of her discomfort.
Open your eyes, Mrs Ainslie. All life is here, I tell you. Jean stares at him. He goes on through the archway into the hotel. Then stops.
I could talk to the chef, if you like. Perhaps get you some grilled chicken, plain rice.
I would appreciate that very much. Graham goes on in. Jean just sits there. Wishing he'd come back out again.
A young hotel worker, ANOKHI, brings out a tray of food to her. Muriel watches her, but Anokhi is deferential, won't meet Muriel's eyes. She puts the tray down and leaves. Muriel just sits there, glaring balefully into the night, the untouched tray of food by her side.
Good evening.
Good evening. Evelyn sits at her table.
I trust you had a good day?
I'd rather hear about yours.
I got a job. My first. Ever. I'm going to be a sort of cultural advisor.
A role I'm sure you'll perform with great distinction. He's about to inquire further, when Evelyn sees Douglas and Jean emerge from their room.
Perhaps if you wouldn't mind keeping that news to yourself.
I'm flattered you shared it with me. He turns to greet the new arrivals.
Good evening, the Ainslies.
Have you had a good day?
Spectacular.
So spiritual, I bet you hardly noticed the smell of elephant dung.
No elephants, sadly. Still none.
Yes, where do you get to every day?
Well, I've just finished telling Mrs Greenslade all about it. Evelyn registers the lie, but says nothing.
I'm sure she wouldn't mind hearing it again. She waits. But Graham is as elusive as he is tactful.
I talked to the chef for you. He said it will be no problem.
Did you hear that, Douglas? Plain grilled food; manna from heaven.
I don't have to have it too, do
I'd like that very much.
But maybe take a clothes peg for your nose.
Graham starts down the stairs.
Goodnight.
Goodnight to you. He seems about to say something else. She waits for a moment, then walks on.
Mrs Greenslade?
Evelyn.
Can I show you something?
I grew up here. Just a short drive away. It was a big house, and we had servants, everyone did. We knew their wives, their children. One boy, Manoj, became my friend. We played a lot of cricket together, played anything we could. And that's how it stayed for years. Until one night, he became something more.
Until now.
And now I think .. what if I am the last person on earth he wants to see? Evelyn says nothing.
I don't think I can go through with it.
Do you want to see him again?
Yes. Yes. Oh yes.
Then you must.
And so now that we are fully operational, Mr Maruthi, it is clear that with a small injection of funds for the Phase Two Development ...
.. the Best Exotic Marigold Hotel can rise like a phoenix to its previous state of glory. And when I say small injection, I mean small in the sense of medium- sized. Possibly larger.
This hotel was never glorious.
Just the phoenix part then.
How many rooms will there be?
Many.
How many?
A great amount. Plenty of rooms, no question. They've arrived in the courtyard.
I am not a details man, Mr Maruthi.
Nor was your father. They see Muriel on her verandah.
Mr Maruthi, I present to you one of our beloved guests. Dear Mrs Donnelly, please describe in as much detail as you desire your experience of the ambience and atmosphere of the Best Exotic Marigold Hotel.
Kill me. Kill me now. Sonny steers Mr Maruthi towards the reception, speaks quietly.
The wheel is spinning. But the hamster is dead. He stops, as he sees an elegant older woman standing in the doorway. This is the redoubtable MRS KAPOOR.
Mummyji! What are you doing here?
You called. I came.
I couldn't have called. The phones don't work.
That's why I came.
Who was that man out there?
The contents of this desk are mine. Don't open the drawers. I must insist you don't open the drawer. Mrs Kapoor opens the drawer.
Tell me why you have come.
Do I need a reason to visit my favourite son?
No. He is in his mansion in Delhi.
My second favourite.
He went to Kerala to make his fortune.
But make it, he did.
As I will make mine. I have a dream, Mummyji. A most brilliant one: to out-source old age. And not just for the British. There are many other countries where they don't like old people too.
Your brothers own a third of the hotel each, they are entitled to a third of the profits.
Success does not happen overnight, Mummyji. This is blue sky thinking, and it requires long-term strategy and patience.
How is your girlfriend?
I look forward to you meeting her.
And I look forward to you meeting the woman you will marry. She is from a good family in Delhi.
I can marry as I choose, Mummyji. I need no permission.
I presume it is your girlfriend who teaches you such nonsense. One reason not to marry her.
What if I love her?
An even better reason. Now send Young Wasim to the car for my luggage.
He cannot carry, he has a dicky back ... wait, your luggage? How long are you staying?
As long as it takes.
Jean is looking out of her bathroom window, down into the courtyard. She sees Graham come out of his room. She turns back to the mirror, looks at herself.
You won't get the dirt out like that. Anokhi just smiles at her radiantly.
I worked in service for years, looked after a lovely house. I kept it spotless. You need a bit more pressure on that brush. Graham walks past, on his way out.
She won't speak English. She's what used to be called an Untouchable. An outcast, born below society. To a good Hindu, even her shadow is polluted. He greets Anokhi in Hindi, and heads for the door.
Where d'you go every day? Is it a woman? Nip round there for a curry and a bit of afters?
I don't think so. I'm gay. Although nowadays more in theory than practice. Good day. He leaves. A moment later, Jean comes rushing out. Immediately she realises two things; first, that Graham has already gone. And second, that Muriel is watching her.
Good morning. Muriel says nothing.
Lovely day. Still nothing from Muriel.
Lovely.
Long old life, isn't it?
Madge is being shown around by an elderly secretary, MR
The Viceroy Club was opened by the great Lord Kitchener himself, and many of the fixtures have remained unchanged since then.
Yes, I see that. Perhaps you could tell me a little about the clientele? Any maharajahs? Wealthy widowed land-owners?
It is not the policy of this club to divulge details of our members. They go past a very handsome older Indian man. Who radiates wealth and privilege.
Good morning, Your Excellency.
Where do I sign up?
The admission fee is 120,000 rupees, and thereafter 15,000 rupees each month.
I wonder if I might get a little discount. Owing to my status.
Your status, madam?
Yes. One was rather hoping to fly under the radar, but one is a member of the Royal Family.
Which member, madam?
I'm Princess Margaret.
Good morning.
Good morning, Sir. Did I not say that we will contact you when there is information regarding your inquiry?
Yes, you did say that. You did.
While it is most pleasant to see you, your presence does not actually accelerate our investigation.
I'll try not to come in tomorrow.
I expect I will see you then.
.You ring in the morning. Let's assume the person answering will be a woman. She will have had her breakfast. Tea or coffee. Semi-skimmed milk, always. If she's under 50 she'll be contemplating yet another diet, over 50 she'll have more or less given up, and be eating toast. The radio may be playing, or more likely daytime TV. A chat show, or a programme with a moderator speaking to a panel of young women whose boyfriends have all slept with their mothers. The girlfriends' mothers, I mean, not their own. Although Anyway, then the boyfriends usually come out, and everybody fights. Sunaina is in the audience. She calls out.
I'm not surprised people hang up on us. Laughter.
That's the point. When the phone rings and it's this robot nobody wants a machine, but it's almost worse when it's a person behaving like one. All these sales cliches just strung together. 'Your call is important to us'. Is it? Well then sound like it.
'Your custom is valuable'.
Right. That one. Don't ever say that.
'Service is our middle name'.
Yes, when your middle name is
Shantanu.
Which is beautiful. You people are young, vibrant, real. I'm sure the typical housewife would enjoy talking to each and every one of you.
Her morning sounds like fun. What are you doing here? Beat.
I suppose I'm not typical anymore.
Excuse me. Would there be any wealthy single men in tonight?
There is one. Madge puts some money into his breast pocket.
Perhaps you could seat me next to him?
This way, madam. He leads her along across the terrace. Madge follows, checking her hair, her breath, etc. The barman reaches an ornate suite of furniture. There's someone sitting there, his back to us, an elegant arm draped over the side of the chair.
His Royal Highness Prince Michael of Kent. The man rises from his chair and turns. And Madge is left staring at Norman. There's a pause. Then Madge reaches into the barman's breast pocket, and removes her money.
I'll have that back, thank you very much.
Good evening. Muriel nods at him, and he goes on into his room. A moment later, Jean sits down next to Muriel.
You know where he goes. I know you know. But you won't tell me. Muriel says nothing.
I can get Hobnobs out here, you know. I know a way.
Public Records Office.
Thank you.
My father used to bring me to this well to swim. He said the water was better, and so were the people we would meet.
My mother doesn't want us to be married.
She hasn't met me yet.
She doesn't need to meet you Sunaina absorbs this.
She knows you are not from Delhi. That you have no family money, and work in a call centre. You are a part of a new India she cannot welcome.
Isn't this where you tell her what you want?
That conversation will be easier when the hotel is a success.
Do you love me?
I have found a new investor. I am most optimistic that he will enable us to move forward with Phase Two of the Marigold Hotel
Shouldn't you finish Phase One first?
In business, if you stand still, you move backwards. No, I have that wrong. If you stand still, you are overtaken by people going the other way. Wait -
You didn't answer the question. Do you love me?
My feelings for you cannot be reduced to a single word.
It's a nice word, Sonny. And people like hearing it.
Sunaina, please. My mother is wrong. It is you who are too good for me.
You say that a lot. You shouldn't I'll start to believe you. They watch the boys in the water.
I still think you're cramping my style.
Please. You have no style to cramp.
That lady at the bar keeps looking at me.
As one would something in a museum.
Why must you mock? I just want to feel young again, to be needed as much as I need, if only for one night, one wonderful night. Tell me you don't know how that feels.
Give me a minute. Then join us. She gets up, heads towards the bar. Where she sits a couple of seats away from the woman. Who is called CAROL. She sits there a moment, then sighs, and starts to talk to the barman.
Rejected again. Many years ago, that man over there gave me the most extraordinary night of my life. He may seem coarse and uncouth, but that only disguises a tenderness and an exquisite sensitivity to a woman's needs Norman arrives at the bar.
Those drinks not ready yet? Madge turns to Carol.
They say patience is passion tamed. Carol smiles.
I'm Madge.
Carol.
And this . is Norman.
How do you do?
Carol? As in Christmas? Madge winces.
I suppose.
Great. Silence.
So what brings you to Jaipur, Carol?
Yes, Carol. What brings you to Jaipur?
I run a small boutique travel agency. But I've actually lived here all my life. My father worked in the Foreign Office. Another silence.
You're very fit.
I beg your pardon?
Oh god.
I mean you look like you keep yourself in shape. Physically.
Well, I did join a gym last year. It cost a fortune, and I didn't get any fitter. Apparently you have to actually go. Madge laughs. Norman doesn't. Then realizes that it was a joke, lets out a too-loud bray of laughter.
And so what do you do, Norman?
Me?
Yes.
Oh. I'm
Norman's in business.
Really?
Yes.
What business?
Import-Export.
Although these days there's rather more Ex- than Im-, if you see what I mean.
I'm afraid I don't. Madge gets up.
I have to splash some water on my face. Please God I drown in it. She heads for the bathroom. Norman and Carol share another silence.
Well look, it's been lovely chatting.
No it hasn't.
No. It hasn't. But I really
Carol? She was about to go, stops.
Can we drop all this pretence? And start again? I'm not charming. I'm not good at repartee. And I'm not a plutocrat with the sexual capacity of a rutting rhino. My name is Norman. And I'm lonely.
My name is Carol. So am I.
Day 22. Like Darwin's finches, we are slowly adapting to our environment. And when one does adapt, my god, the riches that are available. Madge looks across the bar. And is startled to see Norman and Carol chatting up a storm, laughing together. As she watches, Norman orders more drinks, then turns smiling back to his new friend. Madge walks slowly out of the bar, and into the night.
There is no past that we can bring back by longing for it
. only a present that builds and creates itself as the past withdraws ...
And India, like so many things in life, like life itself I suppose, is about what you bring to it.
Where's this? Where are we?
Janta Colony Kachi Basti.
What happened to my usual route?
Anokhi has invited you to her home.
You didn't tell me.
You'd have said no.
Will you check in at the bank? Douglas emerges from the bathroom.
I checked yesterday. And the day before. As requested.
Why do you ask that every morning?
Because I hope for a different answer. Because I think you'll be hurt if I don't. And because it's not healthy for you to spend all day and every day in the confines of the hotel. He goes back into the bathroom. Jean changes the subject.
I didn't sleep a wink. The tap in there never stops dripping.
I talked to Young Wasim about it.
What did he say?
No idea. It was in Hindi. Douglas comes out of the bathroom, holding the tap.
I thought I might get it fixed myself.
No time like the present. Actually I say that, but I enjoyed yesterday, and I'm optimistic about tomorrow too.
I wish I could say the same.
So do I. He goes. Jean sits for a while, looking utterly disconsolate and lost. Then she gets up, goes over to the balcony. Down below she can see Graham leaving.
Your Madgesty.
I gather the night went well.
Would you like to hear about it?
Not in the least.
Good. Because you're going to. Two drinks, some sexually charged
Douglas comes out, carrying a tap. And heads out of the archway.
Morning. Lovely day.
Good morning. They watch him leave.
Two drinks, some sexually charged banter, and we were heading back to her place. Bidding the rickshaw farewell, I walked her to the door.
And there, my young friend, I leaned forward, and I kissed her. Beat.
And?
And what?
Is that all? You didn't seal the deal?
We have a date next week.
What is wrong with you?
I wanted to prolong the anticipation. To spend some time with the knowledge that soon I'm going to eat, drink, and laugh with someone, hold her to me, kiss her softly. Then go back to her place and get my end away.
 Bow much for this, please Kitna
One thousand rupees Ek hazaar
Thank you. She reaches for her wallet. Then Douglas speaks from behind her.
No no, forgive me. That's not how it works.
Evelyn turns, happy to see him.
Good morning.
And to you. Sorry to butt in, but you don't ask him how much he wants, you just tell him how much you'll pay.
One thousand rupees.
Pity.
I know what I'm doing. Evelyn complies, and they turn and walk away.
Yes. The thing is, you see, I did actually want to buy that. To brighten up my room.
He'll come after us.
Do you think so?
Absolutely. This is how the game is played. Just keep on walking. They push through the crowds.
He's playing it cool, but he'll come. They keep walking.
He's playing it very cool. They keep walking. Then Douglas stops. Evelyn looks at him.
He's not coming.
Moments later. They're back at Akram's stall. Evelyn counts out the money.
Eight hundred and fifty, nine hundred, nine hundred and fifty, one thousand. She turns to Douglas, smiles.
You'll get him next time. Then she notices something.
Why are you carrying a tap?
Then stands.
How soon can I leave?
You see what I think, and of course I'm no expert, is that the valve seat has eroded, so we'll need the washer changed and a new seat re-ground. Douglas glances back at Evelyn. Who betrays not the slightest scepticism. Jamshed studies the tap.
The gland nut has come away from the spindle.
Well of course, it could be that too. Can you fix it?
Not cheaply. Not cheaply. Most expensively indeed. Jamshed takes the tap to a workstation at the back, starts to fiddle with it. Douglas joins Evelyn.
I was in a tuk-tuk the other day, didn't seem to be taking the usual route back to the hotel. It turned out that the driver had decided to take me to another hotel, that he was sure I would prefer. And of course one wants to believe that he genuinely had my welfare at heart, and that it wasn't run bg his brother-in-law.
One wants to trust, in general, don't you think? But you never really know, do you? Jamshed stops fiddling with the tap. And takes a hammer to it.
The day I met my husband was the day the fair came to town. My girlfriend and I went on the carousel. Her horse was fine. But when the ride began I felt mine give a little, like it might collapse. Then these strong arms were around me, holding the horse together. And a voice in my ear said "Just trust me". And I did. Without question. Until the day he died.
How wonderful.
The sale of our flat went through last week. I had to sell it to pay off Hugh's debts.
No good. You must be buying another.
As anxiety begins to engulf her, she quickens her pace, brushing through them as best she can, until she is almost running.
She wants to thank you for your kindness.
I haven't been kind.
You're the only one that acknowledges her. Anokhi brings out a plate of food.
Tarkha dhal. Chapati.
I'm not eating that.
You will insult her very deeply if you do not. Muriel looks up. They're all still watching, waiting smiling. She looks at Anokhi's grandmother, as dignified as she is old. Muriel reaches out, takes something off the tray. And has a bite. It's not too bad.
I'd still rather a Scotch Egg. Then she sees something through the open doorway: the children have turned her wheelchair on its side and are spinning the wheels. She's on her feet in a flash.
Get off! Get off it, you dirty thieving bastards! Several terrified faces turn. One little girl starts to cry. Everyone is staring at Muriel.
I didn't see. They were playing. I'm sorry. I'm sorry
In the office.
But I've filled out that form. I've given it to you. Many times.
There is a process. You are making an enquiry. For each enquiry a form must be filled in.
But it's the same enquiry I make every day.
And therefore the same form you must fill in. Graham glances towards the doorway, catches sight of Jean. Their eyes lock, then Jean pulls back out of sight, panicked.
Mrs Ainslie... .?
I don't know how you can bear this country. What do you see that I don't?
Unutterable beauty. Everywhere. In the light, the colours, the smiles, the people who see life as a privilege not a right, and so teach me something every day. The waiter brings their tea.
Is this milk pasteurized?
Yes madam.
But that's not true, is it? You're just lying to me right now
It'll be fine. The waiter goes.
It's a pleasant surprise to see you out and about.
Is it? She looks at him.
Yes. That's progress. Where were you going?
To the bank. I . was going to the bank. Not that there's any reason to think something has changed. But our daughter, you see, she did promise, and one does try to remain optimistic. One has to. Otherwise
Graham worries she might be about to break down. He reaches across the table, puts his hand on hers. She leans forward, puts her other hand over his, holds on tightly. Graham is startled. He tries gently to pull back, but she holds on.
Oh god. Is it possible you feel the same? She brings his hand to her mouth, kisses it.
The way you talk to me. Your compassion, your understanding .. the wonderful, tender consideration, it had to be more than just -
I'm gay. She stares at him. Beat.
As in ... happy? Graham says nothing. Jean lets go of his hand.
Yes. I see. Of course I see. The ghastly inappropriateness of it all settles on them both.
I appear to have humiliated myself. And embarrassed you.
I'm not embarrassed. Jean smiles wanly, grateful for his lie.
Like I said. This country is driving me mad.
Anything?
Not yet. Evelyn waits a moment.
How about now?
One second. Another pause. DOUGLAS Oh good lord.
What?
Listen. The sound of a flowing tap. DOUGLAS And now ... The tap stops. DOUGLAS No drip. He appears in the doorway, triumphant.
No drip! He walks towards her, hand in the air.
Hi-five ! Evelyn just looks at him. She's never hi-fived anyone in her life. After a moment Douglas puts his hand down.
I've never done that before. It just seemed appropriate. Jean has appeared at the other side of the courtyard. Douglas senses her mood, moves towards her.
Darling!
Mrs Ainslie, how are you? Did you have a good day? Jean doesn't answer. She's staring at Douglas. Who looks so happy.
Let me tell you about ours. Your husband of many a year, who has never even known which end of a hammer to use, has actually managed to -
What did you say?
I can't stay in this country a moment longer.
Why ...?
Do excuse me. She makes a tactful exit. Jean is going past Douglas into their room.
I don't understand
. we should never have come. This whole trip is a grotesque fantasy. It's time to go home. Jean starts to pack. Irrationally, compulsively.
Who's paying for the tickets?
 Look at us. A group of self- deluding old fossils traipsing around as if it's our bloody gap year. Humiliating ourselves
Not us, we can't pay. And I don't see you asking our friends
Yes, well. When I want your opinion, I'll give it to you.
Mr John Smith. No response. The doctor looks at Norman, who has forgotten his own alias. DR RAMA Mr John Smith? Norman jumps up.
That's right! Me!
Come on. Pick up pick up pick up. The phone is answered at the other end.
I think it's my sister you're burning for there, Sonny boy.
Thank you, Jay. Thank you. Jay hands the phone to Sunaina.
Hey.
Private line, Sunaina. Do those words mean nothing to you?
He took the phone. What could I do?
I miss you. I miss you every moment. Come and see me. Tonight.
I cannot tonight. It is my parents 25th wedding anniversary. Tell your mother that.
Come after. Come late
You'll be asleep.
I'll be waiting.
You'll be asleep. But i can wake you in that special way...
You will sneak in?
I'm not ashamed.
Neither am I. Absolutely not. There is no shame. You do not have to sneak.
I'm worried there's no lead in my pencil.
OK. I don't know what that means.
No snap in my celery.
I'm still not quite with you.
I plan to party hearty tonight, but I can't guarantee that my love gun will fire.
Mr Smith -
Will the lance dance, and the trouser lion roar?
What is your problem?
I don't know if I can still have sex.
Ah.
I'm not a young man anymore, doctor. And I'm a little bit scared. Truth be told, I'm a lot scared.
How long since you've been with a woman?
What's today?
Monday.
Six years.
I've got some pills that'll help.
Glad to meet her family. Her grandmother. Her kids. Ajit translates. Anokhi speaks.
She asks if you have children?
I looked after somebody else's. Ajit translates.
This one family, years I was with them. I ran the house, looked after the money, did it all, cared for them like they were my own. Ajit starts to translate. But Muriel doesn't wait.
That's the mistake, see. You don't want to get like that, to start feeling part of something. One day they decided I needed some help. I was grateful, I tried to teach her. Not just the books, but how to crisp up the bacon like the gentleman preferred it, the way the little one liked to have her hair brushed. The things you only know if you care. But then they said I was no longer useful to them. Thanked me for my service. As if that's all it was.
Did you want me translate that as well? Muriel smiles. It's the first time we've seen this. Muriel stops, thrusts something into Ajit's hand.
Give her these.
This time it's Muriel who cannot meet Anokhi's eye. Tries to hide her desire to leave. Ajit turns her chair and pushes her away. Over this, the sound of singing
Aaaaaah, freak out! Le freak, c'est chic .. Aaaah, freak out! Feet slapping in the soapy water, he performs a nifty disco move.
I've been getting out and about as much as I can, but I feel I've hardly scratched the surface. And of course I'd love to see Udaipur. The lake you talked about.
I'd love to take you. Perhaps - He breaks off. Douglas and Jean have come in. Jean looks rather desperate.
An awkward moment. Graham stands.
Good evening, Mrs Ainslie. Please allow me. He pulls a chair out for her. She shoots him a look of passionate gratitude for his exquisite sensitivity.
You're very kind. But I rather think I'll turn in early. Goodnight everyone. She goes into her room.
Is this it?
This is it.
You're not worried about the danger of having sex at your age? Norman shrugs.
If she dies, she dies. He leaves. Sonny sprints into the courtyard.
Progress, Mrs Donnelly, Mrs Hardcastle! The wheel is turning most assuredly in our favour! He shoots up the stairs.
Mr Dashwood! Everybody! Great news!
What is it, Sonny?
They are working, they are working!
That is great news. What are working?
The telephones of the Marigold Hotel.
Well, congratulations.
Thank you. I must tell everybody. I must tell my mother! He runs off. Comes back.
Oh wait. You have a phone call.
It's a false alarm. There's no way they could find anything in that office. They probably just picked an address at random, just to keep me off their backs. I'm sure that's what happened. It's going to be nothing. Don't you think it's going to be nothing?
I think you should knock on the door and see.
Yes. Yes I should.
A woman, GAURIKA, appears. She stares at Graham.
I'm sorry to disturb you so late. My name is Graham Dashwood. A long time ago I -
I know who you are. Beat.
I am afraid I don't know you.
I am Gaurika. The wife of Manoj.
(after a fraction of a
I'm very pleased to meet you. And if you could, if you would tell him that I called around, I'd appreciate that very much,
He breaks off. She's walked past him, looking to the other side of the road. He turns to look at the men playing cards. Gaurika calls in Hindi. A beautiful-looking man looks up. MANOJ. He looks across at the house. Stands up slowly as Graham walks across the street towards him. Graham reaches him. The two men just stand there for a moment. Then they hug very tightly. From the steps of the house, Gaurika watches. Evelyn looks at her, fascinated. Across the street, Manoj and Graham are still holding each other, unable to let go.
EMPTY_LINE
First time going in to London with my dad, on his commute... He'd always been so extraordinary to me, so unique. But there he was standing on the station platform, utterly indistinguishable from all the other men in suits. And then of course a few years later I was one of them... Hated my job. Hated it.
What was she thinking?
I beg your pardon?
His wife. Manoj's wife. She knew who Graham was. Had he told her?
Not me, I'm heading up to the Badi Mahal Palace. Very excited, been reading all about it.
Tell me.
I would, if I could remember a word. Evelyn laughs. Then Douglas suddenly grabs her. And pulls her out of the way of a motor bike, zooming past them. Sunaina hasn't realised she nearly hit them, and powers on towards the Marigold. Douglas and Evelyn stand for a moment, startled, holding each other. Something passes between them that embarrasses them both. Then they part quickly, guiltily. They're outside a small restaurant, and with exquisite timing, a group of musicians start to play a romantic tune.
Come, please. Nice meal, please...
Sunaina parks her bike outside the hotel, goes on in.
Who couldn't be happier.
A midnight booty call. How utterly marvellous.
I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry . I don't know what your name is, but I'm incredibly sorry.
Don't be. Most action I've had in weeks.
If you could just please not
Sonny bursts in.
Do not worry, Mrs Hardcastle! I can explain each and every thing! Hesees Sunaina.
Oh my god you are naked. He turns to Madge.
Mrs Hardcastle, I must apologise with deep and profound sincerity -
How could you not tell me you weren't in your room!
Yes, Sunaina, to you too I must apologise with equally deep and profound sincerity. Now go. Get out. Quickly.
I'm going. Just let me get dressed, and -
No no, quicker than that. You must leave, before - MrsKapoor flings open the door.
What is going on here? Who screamed? She sees the nearly-naked Sunaina. MRS KAPOOR No no no no no. No! This is a respectable hotel, not a brothel.
Mrs Kapoor, I'm Sunaina.
Since I will not be paying for your services, your name is of no interest to me.
Because this . is my Sunaina.
The girl who my son described as not too modern.
This is getting interesting.
Is there anyone in this building you haven't slept with?
Mummyji, do not get the wrong idea. Sunaina was not here to be with Mrs Hardcastle. She was here to have sex with me! Mrs Kapoor turns to Sunaina. Who is speechless.
This is the sort of woman you are. OK. Each to her own. But do not ever try and tell me that you are suitable wife for my son.
Sunaina? And now Sunaina is even more humiliated.
One trader is unloading some fruit. A few guava roll off the edge of his wagon. Someone picks them up for him. It's Graham, who smiles as he puts them back. The trader gives him a fresh one. Graham takes it, and walks on, munching the delicious fruit. A contented man.
How did it go? Norman turns, to see Graham standing above him.
I have seen the top of the mountain. And it is good. Graham nods, sits down next to him. They gaze out at the waking city.
I saw someone yesterday, a man I hadn't seen for many years. A man I've loved all my life. Norman is a bit startled by this.
A man... .?
Yes.
Carry on.
 I didn't know how he'd been in the meantime, didn't want to guess. I brought disgrace upon him and his family, and imagined he might hate me for it.
Top of the mountain.
Yes. Norman smiles, then stands and goes on inside. Graham settles back into his chair, looks out at the world.
Not any more.
How was the night?
Rather special. He leaves. Madge just stares after him.
Then it opens its huge wings, takes off. And flies up into the bright blue sky. It's an extraordinary sight. As Graham watches the snow crane swoop and dip, it appears suddenly to slow and stall, until it seems to hang in the air, almost motionless.
You're back. He doesn't turn round. Evelyn has come out to the garden. She goes over to him.
It's been rather an extraordinary night all round. First tell me your news, and then - She breaks off. Graham is dead.
Day 45. Of course it was inevitable. Put enough old people in the same place, it won't be too long before one of them goes... Jean, Douglas, Madge, Norman and Muriel shocked and sobered
We all know it'll happen, but few of us know when. Graham died of a heart attack, evidently not his first. So he had a better idea than most what was coming, he just neglected to tell us. His prerogative.
There was talk of sending the body home, but Manoj felt he should have a Hindu burial. At the place they had visited together. Not a holy place. Although for them perhaps it was.
Graham's friends stand watching the pyre, transfixed by the flames. Manoj, dressed in white, stands with Gaurika. He recites a Hindi prayer.
A body takes a long time to be consumed. Many hours for the mourners to remember their dead. The fire must be lit at dawn, and by sunset, there must be nothing left but ash.
Where do our souls go? is that all of us that is left behind? Perhaps the most we can ask is that when we do shuffle off, we do so knowing that we were loved Manoj pours Graham onto the water. The ashes shim r and dance, caught in the gentle currents.
So there's a process, they call it pickling. I have no idea what it is, or how they do it, but whoever invented it was a smart man. But the real genius was the one who introduced an onion into the system. That I could never have thought of.
No, forget it. Muriel is looking out at the yard. She sees Mrs Kapoor, talking to some surveyors. They're mapping out the building. Mrs Kapoor sees Muriel watching her, comes over to them.
Mrs Donnelly, what are you doing here? You should not be here, talking with this one.
I'm helping her clean. If these pots get any dirtier, you'll have to serve the food with penicillin.
We have other rooms. Go to one of them instead. While this is still a hotel. She turns back to the surveyors.
He can tell you.
A stunning view over the city. Madge is having a drink with Norman. Douglas is sitting on the wall, but keeps looking down towards the stairs.
When someone dies, you think about your own life. And in my case, there is less of it in front of me than behind. And I don't want to grow older. I don't want to be condescended to, ignored and marginalised by society. To become peripheral to the action.
I don't want to be the first person let off the plane in a hostage crisis. They laugh together. And don't even see Douglas go.
I wondered where you'd been. Evelyn turns. Douglas is on the stairs above her.
We're all up top, having a drink.
I went to see Gaurika. Manoj's wife. I wanted to ask her what she knew. And the answer was that she knew everything, that he'd loved another man, and always would. He told her when the marriage was arranged.
And that's right, don't you see? That must be right. Because what is the point of a marriage in which nothing is shared? Her words hang in the air. They stand there for a moment. Jean has come out of her room, and stands there, watching them.
Mrs Greenslade, might I have my husband back now? They spring apart.
Douglas? She walks off back into the room. Douglas turns to Evelyn.
Yes, of course.
Forgive me. Evelyn goes quickly to her room, leaving him standing there.
She was upset.
Spare me your explanations. D'you think I'm jealous?
I don't see why else you would have embarrassed me. And Evelyn.
You were already doing a perfectly good job of embarrassing yourself. Can you imagine how ghastly it's been for everyone to watch you mooning around after that simpering doe- eyed ex-housewife, taking advantage of her loneliness and -
God, can you hear yourself? Can you? Do you have any idea what a terrible person you've become? Jean is stunned into silence.
All you give out is this endless negativity, a refusal to see any kind of light and joy even when it's right in your face, and a desperate need to squash any sign of happiness in me or anyone else .. it's a wonder I don't fling myself at the first kind word or gesture that comes my way. But I don't. Out of some dried-out notion of loyalty and respect, neither of which I ever bloody get in return.
I checked my emails. This came. She hands him a piece of paper.
Are you alright?
I just need some water. She drains the glass.
That was a gin and tonic.
Yes. I know that now.
What's happened?
Good evening, the Ainslies. Douglas and Jean are approaching them.
How are you both?
We're particularly well. Douglas, tell them our news. She looks to him, waits. He says nothing. So she turns, and smiles.
We're going home.
And so I would ask you to loosen the strings on your purse, Mr Maruthi, and to do it most rapidly. So that Phase Two Development of the Best Exotic Marigold Hotel can begin with immediate effect. Mr Maruthi looks down, sees Muriel. She's with Anokhi, Ajit, and Young Wasim. He calls down to her.
Mrs Donnelly, I believe. Sonny spots the danger, tries to lead Mr Maruthi away.
And now if you would please be following me to the ground floor
Mr Maruthi ignores him, calls down again.
How are things at the hotel?
Mr Maruthi -
You see? Profound satisfaction. Such is the inevitable result of a prolonged stay at the Marigold Hotel. And now Mr Maruthi has spotted something else. The surveyors, who are still taking their measurements.
What are those men doing?
 Working for me, Mr Maruthi. To create a home for the elderly so wonderful that they will simply refuse to die! Stare death in the face and say-
(follows Mr Maruthi's
What are those men doing?
Mummyji, what is going on here?
I have spoken to your brothers. They want to sell the hotel. These men are here to value the building.
They are valuing the land. My brothers do not care about the building. They will knock it down.
They could just wait a month for it to fall down of its own accord.
You joke, Mummyji, but inside I know you are not laughing. You do not want to see this dream destroyed. Send these people away.
No, my son. It is too late.
Mummyji, please -
These figures do not support your argument.
There is still time to turn things around. With a small injection of funds, we can -
Who is trusting you with that money? Eh? You, who cannot run a chai stand. Just like your father.
Do I remind you of him so much? Is that why you must be cruel to me?
You think I am cruel?
You loved my father. And he loved this hotel.
Not easier, Mummyji. Smaller. He leaves. Mrs Kapoor comes back to the desk, fiddling with some paperwork, discomfited. She turns to the doorway. Muriel is there, in her chair.
Mrs Donnelly. Can I help you?
Depends. Do you know how to use a computer?
I assume you are joking.
Mrs Ainslie said she had an address where I could get some things I need. Some biscuits. She said I could get them on the line.
I wish you luck. Mrs Kapoor smiles, and leaves. Muriel watches her go, then turns to the computer. Her fingers fly across the keyboard.
The whole thing is actually tremendously exciting. Not just getting on a plane, but getting on a plane and turning left.
Turning left?
First class. And home in time for our 40th wedding anniversary. We haven't yet decided how to mark the occasion.
Perhaps a minute's silence?
 Two should fit us all, I think.
I'm actually going to walk. Apparently they're getting ready for a festival.
Perhaps you'd like one of us to accompany you.
I'm happy to walk with you.
I'll be fine. Evelyn speaks to both Douglas and Jean.
I'm delighted for your daughter's success. I wish you all every happiness.
Thank you. Evelyn turns, and walks away.
Was that Sonny?
 Ma?
I just wanted to hear your voice.
Oh good, I'm glad you've been reading it. Yes. Yes, I've made some very good friends.
I think my money is running out, I'd better go. Goodbye for now, darling. I'll call again later. She hangs up. And stays there with her hand on the phone. Out on the street, Sonny is pulling up. She looks over to him.
Mrs Greenslade. Where are the others?
They're on their way to the hotel. Sonny looks around, at a loss.
What's the matter?
I wanted to warn you before you see for yourself of the most momentous changes that are occurring, absolutely all of them without question for the very positive.
What are you talking about?
I am delighted to announce the closing of the Best Exotic Marigold Hotel, and the joyful return of all of its inhabitants to their home country.
What?
Please relax in the knowledge that your journey home is being arranged, and paid for by the hotel.
Our journey here was arranged and paid for by the hotel, and look how that went. I'd rather walk back to England.
I'd rather not go back at all. A voice comes behind them. Carol has come out of the courtyard.
Why would you have to?
And for myself the news is even better. I shall be moving to Delhi to live with my mother, and furthermore I shall be wed to a most suitable person of her choice, whom I look forward very much to meeting before I spend the rest of my life with her.
But what about your girlfriend?
She is no longer my girlfriend.
This is a disaster.
Then we must treat it just the same as we would treat a triumph, is that not what your Mr Kipling tells us? Although of course, here we have a problem. Because I, Sunil Indrajit Kapoor, have never had a triumph, so of course I do not know how to treat one. No, all I have had is an constant series of disasters interspersed with the occasional catastrophe, an unending stream of total -
Sonny, do you love her? Sunaina?
Most deeply.
Have you told her you love her?
It is because I love her that I must not tell her. She can do so much better than me.
And you have told her that?
Many times.
Good. Women love it when you say that kind of thing. It's a powerful aphrodisiac.
Really?
No, of course not. Go and find her right now, before you lose her forever. Her future is hers to choose, and so is yours. You can have anything you want, Sonny. You just need to stop waiting for someone to tell you you deserve it. Or you can just keep failing yourself, and hurting the ones you love -
Mrs Greenslade, stop drilling! You have struck oil! He goes to his bike, climbs on, and rockets off.
Where's Norman?
Packing.
But we don't have to leave yet.
I asked him to come and stay with me.
Is that wise? I'm not sure he's trained.
You think it's too soon.
It doesn't matter what I think.
It is too soon. But at our age we can't afford the luxury of taking it slow. And it's either this or he goes home and I don't want him to go home. Madge looks at her for a while. Then smiles.
I wish you both the very best.
You haven't met anyone?
Single by choice. Just not my choice.
Did you know Norman brought pills? The first night he stayed with me?
They obviously did the trick.
I saw them in his pocket. I didn't want it to be like that. So when I had the chance I swapped them.
He went all night on two aspirin.
Ready?
She sees a taxi waiting outside the hotel.
Do you want him to see you?
My wallet, I forgot my wallet. One second. Before Jean has a chance to say anything, he goes back in.
She's not back yet. Douglas stops. Beat.
Right.
 False alarm. Had it the whole time. Let's go.
What's going on? Sonny is doubled over, totally out of breath. Holds up a finger.
Sonny?
I need to see Sunaina!
Her shift's not over. And when it is, she doesn't want to see you. Beat.
Jay, you are the son my mother wished I was; an intelligent man, with a strong head for business. You see things as they are, not as you wish them to be. So fuck off out of my way. Jaydoesn't move.
Or you can give her a message. Sunaina is standing against the wall, unseen by Sonny, listening.
Tell her from me what I should have told her the day we met. What I will announce to anyone who asks. And many who do not. Sunaina speaks to Jay.
Including your mother?
His mother.
I will tell every mother in the land.
The only thing that matters in this world. That I love you. And always will.
Why is he only saying this now?
Why are you only saying this now?
Because, Sunaina, love of my life, no more will I believe that I am not worthy, for only by loving you as you deserve will I become so. On Sunaina's face as she hears this.
It's funny. They call it rush hour, but nothing actually moves.
Douglas?
Yes?
If you say one more word, I'll kill you with my thumbs.
Where d'you think you're going?
You may well ask. Madge is sitting under the shade of a tree..
We're moving in together.
Already?
That point has been made.
The hotel is closing.
Doesn't have to. Silence. Everyone stares at Muriel. She takes out the spreadsheets.
I've been going over the accounts.
This is ridiculous. It could go on for hours. There's no way we're ever going to get out of here.
Maybe there is. A rickshaw arrives next to them, swerving through the traffic. It is ridden by IFTI.
You. Can you get us to the airport?
Sorry long way sore legs not possible.
I'll give you everything I have.
Step right in mind your head let's go.
Come on, Douglas. Come on! Douglas gets the suitcases out of the trunk of the cab.
Sorry no manage people and cases.
 What?
Not possible. Two person, no cases; one person, and cases.
 How about if I give you something else? My watch?
We'll get another flight. We can go back to the hotel, and leave in the morning.
No.
Jean, you heard what he said. He can't do it.
He can do one person, and cases.
Yes, but
Could fate find a better way to tell us what we need to hear?
Which is what?
That it's over. It was over a long long time ago.
This is not the time to talk about this. Let's wait till we
I have to go, Douglas.
I won't let you.
No, you'll want to come after me. Chase me to the airport and tell me everything will be fine. But please don't. Because the truth is we both deserve more than we've had. You're just too kind and too loyal to admit it.
Beat.
I will be alright.
I don't know what any of these figures mean. Sonny and Sunaina drive into the courtyard, screech to a halt. They dismount.
Mummyji? Mummyjit
Right here, you do not need to shout.
Do you remember what my father used to say? That nothing happens unless first we dream. Like him I have dreamt, Mummyji, and like him, I have failed. The Marigold Hotel is crumbling into dust. And it turns out I can live with that. But the one thing I will not do is live without this girl. To whom I did not introduce you properly before.
I am very pleased to meet you, Mrs Kapoor.
 No. I forbid it. I forbid this match. Utterly and completely. Do you hear me, Sonny? This cannot happen. And then a low, rumbling sound comes from the corner. Like a quiet volcano. Young Wasim is speaking. It's a long, poetic and heartfelt speech. Unfortunately it's in Hindi.
What is he saying?
What he said to me, I imagine. She turns to Sunaina.
Can you help?
He is saying . he is saying that he has been with this family as long as he can remember. Given them a lifetime of service. And that he remembers another fight, between two young people and their parents. And he remembers the moment where the young man stood up to his mother
. and said yes, I want to marry this woman. Yes, she is from a different community. But she is smart, she is beautiful, and I love her. Long pause. MRS KAPOOR I don't know who he's talking about. She offers Sunaina her hand. MRS KAPOOR Take care of my favourite son. Sunaina shakes her hand.
So I'm not clear now. Am I staying or going?
Depends how you read the accounts.
The accounts?
Turns out the original plan is good, it works. Just not in the hands of an imbecile.
I knew that plan was good!
What the place needs is more money.
Unfortunately my investor, Mr Maruthi has decided that while he greatly admires my endeavors, he
He's reconsidered.
You spoke to him?
So long as there is someone to help the manager.
The manager needs no help.
Sonny...
The manager needs a little help.
I'd like to.
In the shack on the roof?
I sleep in the trees.
A guest has recently checked out. Madge can't believe he just said that.
I'll think about it.
On my own?
You're off your game. Lost your confidence, maybe. But you're a thoroughbred. You'll be back. Madge smiles.
And what about you, Mrs Greenslade? Evelyn has come down, unnoticed by all. Except Muriel.
What about me, Mrs Donnelly?
We haven't talked much, you and
My loss, evidently.
Most things don't. But sometimes what happens instead is the good stuff.
Haven't you got work in the morning? Evelyn nods.
Besides, he'll be back.
You don't know him. He's the most loyal man I've ever met.
50,000 rupees says I'm right. At your current salary that should take you three months to pay off. Muriel stands up. Everybody stares. She starts to walk slowly but proudly across the courtyard. She reaches the doorway, turns back.
If you'll excuse me, someone's waiting to help me make mango chutney. Why did no one tell me about that stuff?
Who is the new assistant manager?
Why? Are you thinking of applying for the job? She gestures for her wheelchair. Sonny rushes up with it. She sinks down.
That's enough exercise for one day.
Day 51. The only real failure is the failure to try.
And the measure of success is how we cope with disappointment. As we always must.
The sound fades as he disappears into the celebration, and is replaced by the gentle sound of temple bells, ringing for morning prayers.
We came here, and we tried. All of us, in our different ways.
Some achieved more than others. but we did our best. Nothing else matters. Evelyn walks through the courtyard, and on out of the hotel.
Good morning.
It is, isn't it?
You're still here.
I missed the plane.
What about Jean?
She didn't. Beat.
(putting down his
I had quite an interesting night, actually. I met the same taxi driver, but this time I let him take me to his brother's hotel. Which turned out to be less of a hotel, and more of a brothel, really. They gave me this pipe, said it was apple tobacco, but that's not what we called it when I was a student. So I made my excuses and left, wanted some time to think. This city at night is extraordinary.
I'm late for work. She goes past him.
Um ... She stops, turns.
What time do you finish?
I get back about 5.
Tea time.
Yes.
How do you take it?
With a little milk. She turns and walks away. She's smiling.
Perhaps it's true: we don't stop playing because we grow old, we grow old because we stop playing. Douglas is haggling with a motorbike mechanic. He seems to be having more success with the price than in earlier days.
All we really know about the future is that it will be different.
So we must celebrate the changes.
Let them come. Bring them on. Because as someone once said, everything will be alright in the end ...
So if it's really not alright, then trust me: it's not yet the
