That's great. We've got dick.  Is there any reason we had to embark on this cluster-fuck during the day?
Night-time's too tricky, Grimwood. You know that.
What is this chicken-scratch?
Cuneiform. Dates back about four thousand years.
So why here?
Because this was the cradle of civilization.  He would've been comfortable here.
I don't know, Dan.  Seems like another dead-end.
I'm not so sure --
There's something beneath us.
Is that a body --?
What the fuck --?!
Radio back-up.  See if they can open it from the other --
Guys?
What's he been doing?
Nothing.  Just sitting there since we brought him here.
 Do you think we've got enough security?
Hendrix, if he wanted to out of there - there isn't an army in the world that could keep us safe.  We didn't capture him.  He allowed us to take him in.  You understand?  Now open up.
Why have you woken me?
Your people need you, Sire.
 "My people".  You think I'm your messiah? Your Savior?
What makes you think I wanted to be brought back?
Times have changed.  Science has made great strides.  Your blood, the sacrament you provide -- it can set us free now.
I see.  And the one I killed earlier?  He was vampire?  You must forgive me.  It had been centuries since I last fed.
I understand.
Then offer yourself to me, child --  -- and let me quench my thirst again.
Danica!  Are you alright --?!
Let him out -- he wants to see what's become of his world.
Tonight, Dr. Edgar Vance, forensic psychiatrist and author of the New York Times best seller "Human Health: The Whole Being Breakthrough".  Also with us is Martin Vreede, Chief of Police.  They're here for an hour and they'll take your calls.  Next on Larry King Live.
Dr. Vance -- you're a psychiatrist and a biochemist, isn't that right?
Yes.  I've long believed that in order to achieve true health, we have to reconcile the body and the mind.  Of course that also requires letting go of a lot of our old notions and superstitions, which is what my work is all about.
Let's talk about that.  How do you account for the fascination with things that go bump in the night?  Movies, books, videogames -- seems like we can't get enough of our boogeymen?
Monsters provide a means for us to transfer our more primal and darker urges into something external.  In the case of vampires, you're dealing with taboo issues like predatory rage and sexual sadism. These are scary subjects for people to own up to.
So we pass the buck to someone else?
Exactly.  Historically, people suffering from medical conditions have always been our psychological scapegoats.  In the Middle Ages schizophrenia was often attributed to demonic possession.
And vampires?
Well, there's a hereditary blood disease known as porphyria that has symptoms remarkably similar to the classic vampiric traits.  People suffering from this disease are anemic, they become sensitive to sunlight, they can't tolerate garlic --
Which is too bad, since my doctor tells me that's good for the heart.  Chief Vreede?  What's your take on all the recent rumors we've been hearing about vampires?
The only vampires I'm worried about are the ones passing the bar exam.  Seriously, if vampires existed, don't you think we'd be on to them by now?  The truth is, our streets have never been safer.  Homicides, assaults -- violent crime is down across the board.  If people want to be concerned, they should focus on criminals like Blade.
Now who's this?  Tell me about him.
He's a sociopath we've been pursuing.
Blade is a very disturbed individual. Even the name he's chosen for himself is troubling.  According to witnesses, he operates under the belief that a vast conspiracy of vampires live amongst us. You have to look at the psychiatric underpinnings here.  What does a person like Blade really want? Odds are, he's really trying to work out some kind of inner trauma.  He thinks he's slaying monsters, but he's really trying to murder aspects of himself.
No more bullets, Blade?  Guess it's time for you to fall down and go boom.
Whistler!  I'm on the Stonebridge overpass at Clemons --
Got it!  Heading eastbound, I'm just beneath you --
-- GO!!!
I hope that wasn't a dog.
Staked you with silver.  Why aren't you ash?
Why aren't you smarter?  Not a vampire, dumbshit -- set your sorry ass up --
What the fuck happened tonight?
How should I know?  He was human.
You've been getting careless, Blade.  You kill a vampire, they ash, don't leave any proof of their existence.  But something like this, a human corpse, it's messy --  -- you better hope nobody IDed you.
It was horrible.  The one car crashed, and then the guy in the coat was shooting the other guy --
 That was just a taste of the mayhem that occurred during tonight's brazen shoot-out that left at least four people dead.  Now apparently an anonymous citizen captured the whole event on video --
Ray!  Heard we've got a lead!
Book us a flight, Hale.  Time to take these cowboys down.
Pack of Reds and some matches.
I'll take this too.
Subject is heading West.
Got him.
Congratulations.  You're famous.  Just what we needed.
Somebody screwed us.  Your face is all over the papers, the television.  Media's eating it up.
Like I care?
You should.  Something like this --  -- taking out a human, even one working for the vampires -- far as the rest of the world's concerned, you're public enemy number one.
Didn't realize this was a popularity contest.
Damnit, Blade, don't you see what's happening?!  The fuckers are finally getting smart.  They're waging a goddamn PR campaign.  Now it's not just vampires we have to worry about, we're gonna have to take on the rest of the world too.  They've got us on the run.  These last few months we've barely been staying ahead of the curve.
You worry too much, old man.
I've been doing this since before you were born, Blade.  The moment you stop worrying, you're dead.
Since the day I found you, you've been like a son to me.  I taught you everything I know.  But I'm tired.  You understand?
How about that one?
No fatties.  They taste like Cheetos.
What about that shrunken apple-head beeyatch-a-saurus over there?
Fucking blow me, man!
C'mon, just pick one.
Once you buy a prize, it's yours and yours to keep.
Got it, got it!  Baby on board!
Looks like we got ourselves a combo meal.
Hey, pretty lady.
Sophisticated mama.
Scream if this hurts, chica!
--aghhk -- it's fucking garlic!
Scream if this hurts, chica.
What is it?
What you've been worrying about.
On the floor!  ON THE FLOOR!
Lock it down!  Keep them contained!
What's going on in there?
 Some kind of self-destruct program! They're fragging their hard drives!
WHISTLER!
Take him down!
Move a finger and you're dead.
 How 'bout this one?
He's got something in his--
WHISTLER!!!
Rise and shine, sleepyhead.
Who --?
Special Agents Ray Cumberland and Wilson Hale, FBI.  We've been tracking you for a long time.
Whistler --
Dead.  Just like all of your victims.
How many people have you killed?  Thirty? Forty?  A hundred?
Those were familiars -- people who worked for them --
And by "them" you mean vampires, right? I suppose next you'll be telling us that Bigfoot's in on the conspiracy too? So what kills these bloodsu~kers, tough guy? Maybe you can give us some pointers.  You can stake 'em, right?  Then there's sunlight -- what about crosses, Wilson? Do those still work?
I don't know, Ray.  What if a vampire's Jewish?
That's a good point.  And does garlic work on a Hindu vampire?  Or do you need saffron or something?
You can keep doing your song and dance as long as you want, Blade, but it's not going to play.  You're a stone-cold killer.  And you're sick as fuck.
Let's leave the diagnosis to the professionals.
Hello, Blade.  My name is Doctor Vance. I'm with the Department of Mental Health. I've been charged with conducting a psychiatric evaluation of you.  Gentleman, would you mind giving us a few moments alone?
I imagine this must be very frightening for you.  But I want you to know that I'm here to help.  In order to do that, however, I need to ask you some questions.  Now.  Can you tell me what day it is?
What about the President?  Do you know who's in the White House at the moment?
An ass-hole.
 Alright then, let's talk about vampires -- what can you tell me about that?
There's nothing to tell.  They exist.
And are you one of them?
What about blood?   When you drink it, do you find yourself sexually aroused?
You see, it strikes me that this business of vampirism has strong connotations of sexual confusion.  Bodily fluids being exchanged, that sort of thing.  You have to ask where that comes from.  I'm wondering, for instance, what your relationship was like with your mother. Were the two of you close?
What's your assessment, Doctor?
He's psychotic, with paranoid features, possessing dangerous levels of sociopathy. He's exhibiting disorganized behavior.  He obviously doesn't have a properly formed conscience --  For his safety and the public's, I'm recommending that he be transferred to County Psychiatric for further treatment.
That's unacceptable.  This man's wanted in connection with a laundry list of federal crimes.  I need him on a plane to the Detention Center in Washington tonight.
Agent Cumberland, that man is in no condition to undergo prosecution.
Chief, we've got a federal arrest warrant here that clearly supersedes --
I don't care about your warrant.  We're in my jurisdiction now.  You've got an issue with that, you take it up with the local magistrate.
I'm sorry, gentlemen, but the call has already been made.  A team from the hospital should be here momentarily to oversee the transfer.
Hi.  We're here to transfer a patient to County General?
 Just a little something to keep you compliant.  The normal dose is two, maybe three hundred milligrams.  But for a strapping young hybrid like yourself --
-- I think we'll kick it up to a couple thousand.
There.  That wasn't so bad, was it?  You're weak, aren't you?  In need of your serum.  Who would've guessed a mere human like myself could overpower you?
 You're with them -- a familiar --
Going on five years now.
It's the end-game, Blade.  All their plans are finally coming to fruition.  So just sit back and enjoy the show.
He's one of them!  Damnit, he's working for them!
Just hold it right there --
Easy, lover. You're not going anywhere.
We moved the humans around like, pawns, Blade.  Used them to flush you out.
Don't worry, Captain Sunshine.  Soon as we get you out of here, you'll get a chance to play.
Don't make this any harder than it has to be.  You're all alone, Blade.  No one can help you now.
Why'd the Polish vampire starve to death?
He kept biting his own lip.
King!
Let's FLY, kemosabe!
He's getting away!
Don't die on me, you undead motherfucker!
Whistler!  We need that serum NOW!
Hey Blacula, you ready to shake and bake?
Call me that again and I'll give you fucking brain damage.
We're pinned down!  Can't you do something?!
I can't shoot around corners!
I can.
 My sword.  They still have it.
 Are you insane?!  We're practically home free!  We can't go hunting for your fucking butter-knife now!
Hey!  HEY!!!  COME BACK HERE!!!  This is supposed to be a rescue!
Forget it, King.  Let's move.
Now we can go.
 Is he epic or what?
My name is Dex.  And I'll be saving your ass this evening.
We have him.  We'll be there soon.
 So my entrance back there -- what do you think?  Too flashy?  Right on the money?
Who are you people?
My name's Hannibal King.  I'm a hunter, like you.  And this little hellion is Abigail Whistler.
That's right, Blade.  You're not hearing things.  She's Whistler's daughter.  You see, Abby, Dex, myself -- we're all part of Whistler's "contingency plan".
Juicyfruit?
I thought the vampires murdered Whistler's family.
They did.  I'm the product of an earlier fling of my Dad's, born out of wedlock. After the murders happened, he kept me hidden.  He wanted me safe.  Away from all of this --  -- but I guess hunting just runs in our blood.
When I came of age, I tracked my Dad down, told him I wanted in.  Been doing it ever since.
Welcome to the honeycomb hideout.
 How do you bankroll this place?
Internet porn.  See, we're using cock suckers to pay for the blood-suckers.  Joke.  Come on, man.  This isn't some piddly little hoopty-ass operation, Blade. We take our jobs very seriously.
You met Dex.  This is Hedges, Sommerfield--
 The runt you saw earlier is Sommerfield's daughter, Zoe.  We call ourselves the Nightstalkers.
You sound like rejects from a Saturday morning cartoon.
We were gonna call ourselves the Super Friends, but that was taken.
Tiller needs adjustment.
I'll run it through the bow press.
How many of you are there total?
Enough.  We operate in sleeper cells. When one goes down, a new cell activates to pick up the slack.  Consider us your reinforcements.
Sorry.  Never been much of a team player.
I don't think you understand, Blade. Whistler meant for us to help you.  When he died, he activated an emergency protocol.  All his knowledge --
--was transferred to our servers here.
And what makes you think you know so much about killing vampires?
Well for starters, I used to be one.  Do I pass the audition?
Fucking Hannibal King!
I should've ripped his ripped his bleeding heart out when I had the chance!  And don't you dare tell me "I told you so"!
You through remodeling?
Blow me.
Face it, Dan.  We got caught with our pants down.  We underestimated the Nightstalkers.
Pants down?!  They practically fucking ass-raped us!
Has he been told yet?
About your failure?
Yes, I've been told.
Perhaps it's time I entered the fray.
You know the kind of woman that just screams trouble? You see her and every warning bell in your brain starts going off but you still ask for her number? Well that's all I ever hook up with.  But this betty blew 'em all away in the shitstorm sweepstakes.
Her name's Danica Talos.  You met her earlier.  The man on her left is Asher, her brother.
The neanderthal behind them is Jarko Grimwood.
I picked Danica up in a bar, had a one night stand with her -- then spent the next five years playing step-and-fetch-it as her little vampire cabana boy.  Eventually Abigail found me.  Sommerfield here managed to treat me with a cure.  Now I kill them.  That's called turning a frown upside down.
We need to pool our resources, Blade.
Why?
Because He's come back.
You gotta be kidding me.
He's real, Blade.  Dig beneath all the movies and myths.  All the layers of bullshit that've cluttered our culture for the last five hundred years and eventually you'll strike the truth.
 So the movies are true?
 The movies are just a comforting fairytale compared to the real deal. There's no happy ending with this guy. Peter Cushing isn't going to run in at the last second and save the day with a cross and some holy water.  See, good old Brain Stoker, he wrote a nice yarn.  But the events he described in 1897 were only a tiny piece of the mosaic. The rea1 Dracula's origin goes back much earlier than that.
How early?
Try six or seven thousand years.
Dracula's only one of the names he's gone by.  Now they call him Drake.  If you believe the legends, he was born in ancient Sumeria.
Nobody really knows the specifics of his origin.  But we do know this:  he was the first of his kind.  The patriarch of the hominus nocturna.
Every single vampire -- every single monster that's walked the earth since then -- owes their existence to Him.
He's like the Patient Zero of evil.  The original Serpent in the Garden of Eden. And just like the Great White shark, he's never had to evolve.  This guy was born perfect.  Scour the history books --
-- read between the lines --
-- you'll find countless references to Him.  Always mentioned, never named.
He's been there --
-- moving behind the scenes --
-- cutting a bloody path through the Ages until suddenly --
-- just like that --
-- he up and disappeared.  About a century ago the trail went cold.  Then we heard a rumor.  The vampires were searching for him -- trying to find the place where he'd retreated.  According to our information, they found him in Iraq about six months ago.  And he was pissed.
In the window -- you sell vampire merchandise?
Uh, yeah -- look around, we might have a few things.
We've got Dracula lunchboxes.  Did you see those?  And there're bobbleheads, Pez dispensers.  We've got just about anything -- (selecting a vampire- shaped vibrator, playful) -- even vampire vibrators.
Here, check this out --
"Dracola".  Makes you want to cry, doesn't it?
Was there something special you needed?
Hey, guy, she's talking to you.
Why wake up Drake now?
That's what we've been trying to figure out.
When I was under the fang there used to be talk about some kind of vampire 'Final Solution'.  But I could never figure out why they'd want to destroy their food source.  I mean, seems stupid, right? They've always had plans for the human race.  Seems likely that whatever they're cooking up, Drake's return is a part of it.
Let's face it, Blade -- we're fighting a losing battle. So we kill a few hundred of them a year. Big deal.  There are thousands of them out there.  Maybe tens of th'usands.  We need a new tactic.
Like what?
A biological weapon.
For the last year I've been~working with synthesized DNA in order to create an artificial virus targeted specifically at vampires.  We're calling it DayStar.
Think about it, Blade.  We could wipe them all out in a single move.
So what's been holding you back?
 We've tried it on a number of captive subjects.  We've got the disease vector worked out fine -- it's easily transmittable.  But the lethality in vampires is still spotty.
Bottom line is, we need a better DNA sample to work with.  We need Dracula's blood.
Vampire DNA is a hodge-podge of different genes, mixed in with all sorts of useless junk DNA.  Because Dracula's the progenitor of the vampire race, his DNA is still pure.  It hasn't been diluted by a hundred generations of selective mutation. It still has all the necessary cellular compounds for the virus to code to.  We get his blood, we can boost Daystar's viral efficacy to a hundred percent.
So.  You want to join our club?  Can we sign you up for a Nightstalkers secret decoder ring?
This world sickens me.  The humans have soiled it with their filth.
We can raze their cities to the ground. We can bring the old world back.
Come closer.
 I can't.
And do you know why?  Once, all of my kind could brave the day. We were true predators.  The world was ours.  And then, somewhere along the way, the purity of our bloodline became diluted.  Polluted with human DNA.
That's impossible --
Is it?
You are bastard children.  No longer as pure as you pride yourselves on being.
My people.  How far you have fallen.
We've got a wide assortment of ass- kickery for your viewing pleasure --  Electronic pistol.  Comes with a built-in fingerprint security system.  Fires a three-shot burst in 1/500th of a second. Bullets can also be triggered remotely.
Explosive rounds?
But with a concentrated burst of UV light instead of your standard hollow-points.  I call 'em sun dogs.  Hedges -- super-size me, baby!
This little mamacita -- a modified version of the Army's Objective Individual Combat Weapon.  Pick your poison -- stakes, sun dogs, heat-seeking mini-rockets.  Whatever gets you hard, this puppy will pump out. (gesturing to Blade's sword, sarcastic) Of course it doesn't have the range of a sword but --
We call this the UV arc --
You hold the arc in the center, curved away from you.  Connecting the tips is a powerful UV laser beam.  Because of its high focus, the laser cuts through vampire flesh like a knife through butter.
We're still trying to sort out fact from fiction when it comes to Dracula.  Turning into mist?  Kinda doubt it.  But general shape-shifting?  Maybe.
 Not into a bat or a wolf or anything like that.  But another human, someone with the same approximate body mass -- given enough practice it might be possible.
How?
He wouldn't have a traditional skeletal structure.  Probably something more like a snake, with thousands of tiny bones in the place of a normal array.  Commensurate with this would be an exquisite control of electrical potential across his tissues, resulting in an ability to effectively change shape at will --
 Question.  Have you ever been laid, Hedges?
Time to apply some pressure.  The weak link in the vampire chain of command has always been their familiars.  Vampires can't go out in the day, so they get humans to do their dirty work for them Blood-running, safe house maintenance, whatever --  We bleed the wanna-be vampires, they'll lead us to the real thing.
She's making playlists.  Likes to listen to MP3s when she hunts.  Her own internal soundtrack, you know?  Dark-core, trip hop, whatever kids these days are listening to.  Me?   I'm more of a Kenny G fan.
Want another spin, ass-hole?  Eventually, your head's gonna pop off.
Shit!  Oh Jesus, please, please --
Who's your handler?
I don't know his name, I swear I --
This is Dr. Vance.  Did someone page me?
Hey, Blade -- why didn't the vampire bite Mick Jagger?  Cause you can't get blood from a Stone.
Hey, they can't all be gems!
 Regain control of your life.   Wake to a new dawn.  At the Vance Institute for Whole Being we believe in an integrated approach to human health.
I'm Dr. Vance.  Welcome to our facility. As a member of the medical profession I want to assure you that I will do everything in my power ro provide you with the care and compassion that you deserve.
Excuse me, can I help y--
What does it mean to be human?  Since the dawn of creation our ancestors have asked ourselves that question.
The modern world today is filled with countless challenges.  In every direction we look, toxic stressors are impacting upon our happiness.  We think we're healthy, but the truth is, our immune systems are engaged in a life or death struggle to maintain our well being.
I'm sorry but you can't --
Now, I'd like to take a moment to exolain how a series of remarkable new breakthroughs can immeasurably improve the quality of your life
What --?
Payback, Vance.
Jesus, it's him!  It's Drake!
jumping onto the hood of another car. More HORNS sound.
My baby
So you're the hunter they all fear.
 Just so we understand each other, Daywalker.
Why did you kill Vance?
He'd outlived his purpose.  He'd become a liabi1ity.
Your sword -- I've seen that hilt before. Eight or nine centuries ago.  The hunter who carried it was an accomplished fighter.
He was honorable, in his own way.  He died a good death.
I wouldn't know about that.
You lie.  You're part of a grand tradition, Blade.  You hunters have plagued my people since the day we first walked the earth.  And I have vanquished them.  One by one.
How can you exist in the daylight?
I've always been able to.  Haven't you read Mr. Stoker's fable?  I was the first of the vampires.  I am unique.
 That's why they brought you back.
Yes.  My children seek to isolate the properties in my blood that make me immune to sunlight.  Through me, they believe they can all become Daywalkers.
The world's changed much since I went to sleep.  How crowded it's become.  Look at them down there.  Lives brief as fireflies.  Do you think they can ever grasp what it means to be immortal like us?
You're not immortal.  I must've heard a hundred of you people make the same claim. And every one of them's seen the end of my sword.
Perhaps I will as well, then.  But I think it's more likely that you will fall before mine.  Catch.
Shit!
Jesus, it hurts.  I wanna be a vampire again -- fuck!  Did you see that guy?! We're gonna lose, man.  We're gonna fucking lose.
What's that?
Fibrin sealant foam, it's an elastic protein.  Help me spread the wound open. The foam should seal the hemorrhaging in his body cavity from within --
Hey, hey -- what'd the one lesbian vampire say to the other?
Shut up, King.
-- see you in twenty-eight days --
Hey, Blade -- say we're successful.  Say we wipe the vampires out.  What happens then?  You ever ask yourself that?  Somehow I don't picture you parked on a porch with a jigsaw puzzle.
So basically we're in an arms race. They're using Drake's DNA to build themselves a better vampire --
 -- and we need his blood to kill them.  How's this weapon of yours coming along?
We're almost there --
The virus is harmless to humans.  So we decided to go after the vampires' food source.  The one thing we know for sure about vampires is that they have to drink blood. If we manage to pull this off, we'll be able to contaminate every blood source on the planet.  They won't have anyone left to feed on.
Doesn't do us any good if we don't have time to finish it.  We can't just sit here.  We need to take the battle to them.
If the vampires are trying to isolate the hereditary factor in Drake that makes him immune to sunlight, they'll require certain kinds of laboratory equipment and provisions.  For instance, there's an enzyme called Taq Polymerase.  And there are only a limited number of suppliers.  Give me a few hours.  I'll see if I can't hunt us up some leads.
Why do you wear that -- symbol?
 Old habits --
I was a good Catholic school girl    Once.
I was there when they crucified him.  He died -- for their sins, not mine.
 And what are your sins?  Would you care to confess them?
 Too numerous to remember.  Take it off.
Why?
I'll make you a better one.
There's an old saying --
Kill one man, you're a murderer. Kill a million, a king.  Kill them all, a God.
Why do you do that?
There's something bad inside of me.  This keeps it from getting out.
Why can't you just be nice?
Good question.
I think I've got a lead.
Biomedica Enterprises.  They've been buying up all sorts of supplies -- Taq polymerase, bone marrow growth supplement, genetic sequencing enzymes.
We'll check it out.
Doing a little moonlighting, Chief?
C'mere.  We need to talk.
Now spill it, bite-boy.
 You know what we're doing.  Drake has come back to us.  Soon we'll all be Daywalkers. And when that day comes, the world will truly be ours.
What's back there?
 Thanks.
What's behind Door Number One?
They'll kill me --
 So will I.  But I'll enjoy it more.
God in Heaven --
What was this place?
It's a blood farming facility.  They decided that hunting humans on a piece-meal basis was too inefficient. Why kill your prey when you can keep them alive?  Productive.  Under optimal conditions a donor can generate anywhere from fifty to a hundred pints of blood a year.
 But where did you get all these people?
The streets.  In any given year you've got two to three million homeless people wandering around America --  No one cares about them.  We're doing the country a service, really.
The vampire Final Solution.
Are they aware?  Do they feel anything?
 They're in a chemical-induced coma. They're brain-dead, vegetables.
Look at this!  Is this the future you want?  You think there's a place for you in their world?
We don't have a choice!  They're going to win, don't you see that?!  He's come back! There's nothing stopping them now!
There's me.
Go.  You've got thirty seconds.
 Let's go.
CYTOGENETICS AUDIT DATA FROM -- AUGUST FIFTEENTH, TWO-THOUSAND AND FOUR.  AMNIOTIC FLUIDS -- INPUT DELAY/ZERO. ABNORMAL SAMPLES/TWO. BANDING QUALITY/SEVEN-POINT-TWO --
'The reason most people are bad is because they do not try to be good.  Now, the Nome King had never tried to be good, so he was very bad indeed.  Having decided to conquer the Land of Oz and to destroy the Emerald City and enslave all its people, King Roquat the Red kept planning ways to do this dreadful thing, and the more he planned the more he believed he would be able to accomplish it --'
CYTOGENETICS AUDIT DATA FROM -- AUGUST FIFTEENTH, TWO-THOUSAND AND FOUR.
You get me those Fruit Roll-ups like I asked --  Dude.  Aren't you dead?
BLOODS -- INPUT DELAY/ZERO. ABNORMAL SAMPLES/SEVEN. BANDING QUALITY/EIGHT- POINT-ONE --
Guys?  You okay --?
Zoe, go find some place to hide, sweety.
Damnit, go!  Get out of here, Zoe!
Drake's boot-clad feet pass by the grate again, closer, tn~s time. They pause for an interminable moment --
King --
 Zoe -- where's Zoe?
Where is she?!
Use it.
 Use it.
USE IT!!!
Back off, pooch --
Jesus Christ!
What the fuck?!  WHAT THE FUCK?!?
His name's Beau.  We've been experimenting with porting the vampire gene over into other species.
You made a goddamn vampire dog?!
Yeah.  Cool, huh?
Poor little King.  You look so distraught.
You're tasting a little bland, lover.  Not getting enough fatty acids in your diet? Have you tried mackerel?  Lake trout?
How about you take a sugar-frosted fuck off the end of my dick?
Oh, there'll be time to play doctor later, believe me.  But for now, we need to have a little talk.  Tell us about this bio-weapon you've been building.
I can tell you two things.  Diddly.  And shit.  And diddly just left the building.
Spit it out, you fucking fruitcake!
Okay, here's the deal with the weapon -  It's a new flavor crystal formula.  Twice the chocolaty-goodness, half the calories. Plus, it helps prevent tooth decay --
You're brave, King, I'll give you that. But underneath all your swagger --
-- I know what you really fear.   What would hurt you more than anything else.
You don't want to go back to being one of us --  -- do you?
I'm going to bite you again, King.  And then I'm going to leave you here while you turn.  I'm going to watch you, day after day, while the Thirst keeps building and building.  And then, when you can't stand it anymore --
-- I'm going to bring the little girl for you to feed on.  Would you like that, King?  Would you enjoy taking her life?
Now we're getting somewhere, my pet.
You alright?
 I'll be fine.
Don't let it turn inward.
It already has.  Since I can remember I've had this knife of sadness in my heart.  As long as it stays there, I'm strong.  I'm untouchable.  But the moment I pull it out --  -- I'll die.
I'm ready to go.
My name is Caulder.  And I'll be your driver this evening.
Where are you taking us?
Another safehouse.
We told you, Blade.  We operate in sleeper cells.  When one goes down, a new cell activates to pick up the slack.
Sommerfield left a video message for you.
 If you're watching this, I'm already dead. If Zoe's still alive, I want you to promise you'll take care of her.  I've been reading her The Oz books every night. We just started The Emerald City of Oz, the one with the Nome King --
I think I've managed to cultivate a workable strain of the Daystar virus.  As a precaution, I transmitted the genetic sequence to Caulder, in case our main stock was destroyed.  In order for it to achieve maximum lethality, you'll need to interfuse it with Drake's blood.  If it works, any vampires in the immediate vicinity should die almost instantly. After that, it should take only a few weeks for the virus to spread throughout the rest of the world.
There's one other thing, Blade.  You need to know that there's a chance the virus could destroy you too.  Because you're a hybrid, I'm not sure whether your immune system will be able tolerate it.  I'm sorry.  We didn't have enough time to properly test it.
Take a look at the plague arrow.
I only had time to fabricate a small batch of Daystar.  I outfitted it with a compressed gas projectile, so you should be able to fire it from one of the fourbarrel rifles or a bow.  Just make sure the shot counts, cause we don't have enough for a second try.
Do you know who I am?
You're the Nome King.
The Nome King.  I like that.  Tell me, child.  Do you want to die?
I'm not afraid -- I'll go to Heaven.
There is no Heaven.  No God.  No angels. No happy ending for good little girls. The only thing you have to look forward to is nothingness.
But what if you could change that?  What if you could remain a child forever?
What if you could keep this little doll- like face of yours until the sun itself cooled to a cold, hard rock?  Wouldn't you like that?  Wouldn't you accept that gift?
My friends are coming to kill you.
-- gonna be sorry you did that --
Nobody's coming for you, King.
Sure they are.  Left a trail of digital bread crumbs --
Excuse me?
One thing you need to know about us Nightstalkers.  When you join our club, you get this nifty little tracking node surgically implanted in your body --
Bullshit.
Scout's honor.  One of us gets lost, the others just dial up the satellite and presto, instant cavalry.
He's bluffing.
 Okay, King, where did they put this tracking node of yours?
It's in my left ass-cheek --
Alright.  alright, it's in my right ass- cheek --
No, seriously --  -- it's in the meat of my butt, right below my Bart Simpson tattoo --
-- pull down my tighty-whities -- see for yourself.
ENOUGH!  It's not funny anymore!
No, it's not, you horse-humping bitch --  -- but it will be a few seconds from now.
 And what happens then, lover?
Hammer time.  See, that tickle in your throat you're feeling right now?
That's atomized colloidal silver.
It's being pumped into the building's air conditioning system.
Which means that the fat lady should be singing right about --
-- NOW
You alright?
Nothing a hot tub full of Bactine won't fix.
Zoe --
Drake's got her.
Come on, hon.  Let's get you out of here.
 Fuck.  Me.  Sideways.
Are you ready to die, Blade?
Been ready since the day I was born, mother-fucker.
 Then allow me to accommodate you.
 Bad dog.
KING!!!
No offense, Danica --  -- but I've wanted to kill you since the moment we slept together.
I was that bad, huh?
No bullets in your gun, King.
Yeah, but here's the beauty --  -- these babies can be triggered remotely.
Well done, hunter.  Well done.
You fought with honor --
-- as I knew you would.  The humans are coming for you, you know.  In their eyes, you and I are the same. Allow me one last indulgence, then --  -- a parting gift --
BLADE!!!
We drop away from Abigail and King -- like we're falling down
It didn't take long for the authorities to arrive.
When they got there, all of Drake's people were dead.
In the weeks that followed, the rest of the world's vampires also perished.  We'd finally won.
And Blade?  Cumberland and Hale finally got their body --
-- but it wasn't the one they were banking on.
The virus didn't kill Blade.  But the authorities very well could have.  So in the end, realizing that own his people were doomed, Drake decided to give Blade a gift.
By taking Blade's shape, he bought Blade enough time to escape.  Offering Blade a second chance at life - -
And so Blade took it.
We never saw him again.
He disappeared completely.  But that's what heroes do.  They simply fade out.  And in this way --
-- they become legends.
Evening Lucius.
King, what the hell are you doing here?
Just a little sport hunting.
Ain't no vampires left, King.  So who do you have to hunt?
That's an interesting question, my friend. And I've got a question for you in return.
What do you get when you cross a vampire with a werewolf?
 A fur coat that sticks to your neck.
Don't you know fur is murder?
