I'm...scared...to close my eyes--
--I'm scared to open them.  We're going to die out here--
--she'd be a much happier camper if she'd lived to see this weekend's grosses--
In only its first week of wide release, "The Blair Witch Project" has taken in a whopping 36 million at the nation's box office. Not too bad for an independent film that was reportedly made for less than the cost of your average Buick--
--lines to see the new film stretching five blocks long down Houston Street--and this was for a 10 a.m. show--
...the kid...Mike...he was turned around towards the wall 'cause that's what that guy in 1940 made all the little kids do before he killed them--
Just a movie, baby!
....no...it was real, what we saw ....wasn't it?--
--whatever you want to call it, "Blair Watch" is definitely the Cinderella story of the summer, if not the century, with now an 80 million dollar gross in just two weeks--
--save your money, it's all bullshit hype! Blair Witch sucks!--
--all repeat business, dude--I know morons who've seen the stupid thing like three times in one day.
How many times have you seen the film?
Like maybe five. But not in one  -ing day--
--it taps into our universal primal fears: of the boogeyman, of the things that go bump in the night-- there's something out there, you can't see it, and it's coming for you--
--it was just so real--
--it was real--
--you gotta be kidding me-- there's people out there think "Blair Witch" was real??--
--the brass tacks of the matter is, love it or hate it, "Blair Witch" has escalated from being merely another cinema success story to a genuine nationwide phenomenon--if not obsession. Profits from merchandising tie- ins going through the roof--
--posters --the books-The Blair Witch Project: A Dossier; Heather's Journal --the CD "Josh's Blair Witch Mix"
--the official "Blair Witch" web- site now having received 75 million "hits" to date--
--with that web-site, in just a matter of a few weeks, begatting dozens more web-sites, with chat rooms so packed with fans and foes you're lucky to get a cyber-word in edge-wise--
--the truth is, this movie's probably been the best and worst thing ever happen to this town. The good thing--well, take a look down East Main there--
--we've got people pouring in here like it's Times Square, some of 'em all the way from Europe, Japan. A whole lot of money being spent. The bad?
There used to be a sign on it, "Welcome to Burkittsville."  They showed it in the movie. Somebody wanna show me where it is now? I swear to God, these people, they're coming in and making off with every- thing isn't nailed down. There's two other signs I had to take down myself, put away for safekeeping 'til this whole damn thing's finally over.
When did you think that'll be?
Just pray we get to see it this lifetime.
Can't seem to find 'em.
Gotta be around here somewhere-- right here's where Heather stood in the movie.
We're trying to find the graves of those seven kids Rustin Parr killed.
Lotta dead kids--just can't find any died later than like 1867.
What do you think all these candles are for?
I wouldn't touch 'em.
Nothing much we can do--just enforce the curfew. Which is dusk, for both the cemetery and the Black Hills Forest.
This is what you call "striking gold."
Fifty bucks a pop minimum back in Philly.
There seems to be some controversy whether or not any of this actually happened.
That what actually happened.
The three kids who disappeared, everything that was in the movie, the whole Blair Witch legend.
You'll excuse me--
--the only statement we feel comfortable making at this time is: we're happy the film's been such a success; we grieve with the families of Heather, Josh and Mike. Now, if you'll excuse me--
--this is the only reality I know: we're averaging about four lost rubberneckers a week up in these woods.
Get outta these damn woods and go home! There is nothing in there!
You want to turn that shit down just a hair??
Shit? This is from "Josh's Blair Witch Mix," man!
Down or off--you're giving me a migraine.
 Christ.
 Just trying to set the mood for the mission--get the "feeling."
Only thing I'm feeling is homicidal.
Hold this.
What?
The wheel.
The bitched-out babe in back here is one Anna Tassio--we met one dark and stormy night in a Blair Witch chat room, we all did--
--Christ almighty--
--but she was nicer then--sweeter-- she hadn't vomited twice already like today--
--it's called "morning sickness," asshole--
 --a six week bun in the oven--
 --Cotter, just turn the camera off?
This is her equally on-the-rag boy- friend, Nick Leavitt--
--turn the camera off--
--they're from UMass, doing some kind of fucking term paper--
--Graduate Thesis--
--about the Witch--
--you got that right--
--and if she ever did--
--which she may have--
--bullshit--
--she wasn't a witch--we embrace nature, not evil--
--thank you, Heather Arendt--and arend't we glad you're here--a real witch--
--fuckin' A right--
--Cotter--
--a Wiccan--
--turn the goddamn camera off!
We're not making Blair Witch II here.
I am.
And let it be known--before we even get to Burkittsville--it's gonna be an eighteen thousand times better movie--for half the cost--
--which'd be about ten bucks--
--and unlike the first one, every second of it's gonna be true! "Blair Witch: The Real Story!"
Cotter?
I'm not finished.
We're all going to be if you don't hit the brakes.
Jee-zuz!
You're a complete fucking idiot, aren't you?
Hey, Mr. Graduate Fucking Thesis here was s'posed to be driving!
You drive, I'll handle the video, okay?
Fine.
Bye-bye--
What're you doing?
This isn't about us.
Right. And the check's in the mail.
Cheery little place.
It's like traveling back in time.
The good old days: toasting marsh- mallows over a burning witch.
They never burned witches in this country, they hanged them.
Whatever--all I know is the persecution's going to start all over again, they keep pumping out inflammatory bullshit like this fucking movie--
--hey: check that out!
'Thought those all got stolen.
Guess they thought it was safe to put some up again.
Think again.
Somebody wanna hand me that claw hammer in back--
Get busted on your own time. We've got a schedule to keep.
Was it every day or just semi- weekly you got your ass kicked as a kid?
 Now you can bring the vehicle to a stop: there on the left.
Why are we here?
She e-mailed me yesterday this is where we should meet her.
Who?
Whatzername--the "psychic" Anna hired.
Domini. Domini Von Teer.
What's she look like?
No idea, just talked to her on the 'Net--she's very good.
So says her website.
She is--she's helped solve a bunch of murders: Arizona, New Mexico--
--how old?
I dunno, probably right up there, based on her resume.
Then there she blows.
Terrific--and I was afraid I wasn't going to get laid on this trip.
Jesus.
What?
That's not whatzername--it's Mary Brown.
From-the-movie-Mary-Brown, Trailer Park Bible Psycho?
Oh, for chrissake, she was an actor.
No, the kids were actors, the townspeople were real. Her, the Sheriff, the Convenience Store guy--
--whatever; that's her.
What do you want?
Just came over to say hello.
It's five bucks for signin' something; ten for signin' a Bible; twenty, you want to take a picture with me. Any kind've conversation, that's subject to negotiation.
 I don't believe this.
 I do.
Thanks just the same. I think we're fine.
Heather's not.
Me?
Heather. I saw her. Elly Kedward's hands were on her throat, and she was sucking out the girl's insides with her mouth.
 Heather from the movie.
Heather.
Been a pleasure meeting you; we need to go now.
I take it back--she wasn't an actor. She's a nutjob.
That's what Josh and Mike said.
Shut-up.
Domino? Domini Von Teer...??
Present.
Domini?
Yes.
What're you doing there?
Trying to find the energy.
Inside the grave?
To stand up--I'm exhausted. Been on the road since yesterday.
You want a hand?
I want amphetamines.
Beer and weed is what I've got.
Both. Now.
BOY KURTH May 28 '00
Sweet place to take a nap.
Strange girl.
You think so?
So, I hear you're from New Mexico!
Sometimes.
Her father's Sheriff of Taos County.
Sometimes. Where are we going?
Ruins of the Rustin Parr house.
Guy who killed all the kids in the '40s.
 "The Voiiiiices made him do it."
The Witch's voice.
She wasn't a witch.
Whatever.
I hear voices all the time.
What is all this shit?
We're doing dusk-till-dawn taping of all the places where there've been alleged Blair Witch "sightings" --the Parr House, Coffin Rock, Tappy Creek.
Why?
See what turns up--which I guarantee will be nothing. Some of the rest of the party are more hopeful--
--or incredibly fucking naive.
Hey, folklore--
--myth--
--doesn't just pop out of thin air. It spins off of real events. At some point there was a Blair Witch--
--or one huge attack of group hysteria.
 Either way, maybe there's a book in it, and they both make a ton of money.
 It's a serious sociological study.
The four of you really have too much spare fucking time on your hands, don't you?
And what's your excuse for being here?
She got paid.
 I thought the movie was bitchin'.
Wait a sec!
What?
He really is a fucking idiot.
Didn't we already do this hill?
No.
You sure?
Yes.
Terrific: an hour, we're already lost--
Cotter?
What?
Look over there.
Okay, but--
--now there.
Oh. Cool.
Where they found the backpacks and all the film a year later.
Buried deep under 200 years worth of soil, ash, and compost layers.
Yeah, that was a cluster-fuck for the mind.
If it happened at all.
Mike! Miiiiiiike! Noooooo!
You're not only an idiot, you're a goddamn child.
Why does everyone here but me have have a gigantic stick up their ass?
Hey! Check this out!
Look at those marks--just like in the movie.
Ancient runes--
--what the fuck's a "rune"?--
--chalked just hours ago by ancient adolescents. It's called vandalism.
What is this?
Oak?
No. What's it doing here in the middle of the foundation?
Growing. This place burnt down 50 years ago. Trees happen.
Look it's right here--from the Blair Witch "Dossier"--the sketch the anthropology students made of their dig when they found the backpack.
That's a sapling--this mother's got to be three hundred years old, minimum.
It's a sketch, Anna--it's not to- scale cartography; the tree was not the kids' focus--
--do you agree it's that old, Nick?
Okay, fine, whatever, yes--it's an old tree.
Why don't you just cut it down and count the goddamn rings--who cares?
Because it means the tree is older than the house.
Yeah, so?
So whoever built this--
--brother of Rustin Parr's maternal grandfather, somewhere after 1858--
--whoever--they built an entire house around a tree. Sticking up right through the living room. Somebody like to explain that to me?
The rest of the family was crazy as Rusty Parr.
Oh, c'mon--even you have to admit this is weird.
No--this is weird.
--sacred and occult Scotch Tape.
Rusty Parr had the right idea on child care.
Your parents didn't have a bigger one?
It was free--I recall that was the chief selling point for you.
No offense, sweetheart: fuck you.
You know, Nick, you've been something of a total asshole the past few days.
Pardon me, I've had a few things on my mind--like putting this safari together.
Like how weirded-out you are with this pregnancy thing.
Let's just leave it at: it was one hell of a surprise.
You don't want it though.
Your body, your call.
Why is there no "our" here?
Could we take this up later--like indoors, without half the world listening?
You feel no need to get married or anything.
Anna--
--fine, later, fine.
Sonovabitch!!
Nice tent.
Hadn't even opened the thing since Cub scouts.
Never would've guessed.
So where the hell am I going to sleep?
If you're looking at me, look elsewhere.
I've got the Panasonic Portable DVD player.
What movies?
Ask me what I don't have.
What I never could figure about the movie?
What?
Three people: two guys, a girl-- sleeping in the same motel room, the same tent night after night.
Yeah?
No fucking.
No.
Made no sense. Scared out of their minds, and the greatest stress reliever in creation right at their fingertips. Nada.
No sense at all.  I'm a little stressed.
Try a long walk.
Oooh. Oooh.
Ah, Domini?
What?
You planning on sleeping out there?
Not planning on sleeping at all.
Oooh. Oooh.
I figure I lie here long enough, maybe he'll swoop down and carry me off in his talons.
We should be so lucky.
Butt-ugly owl.
...see if it's alive--
--shit--
Who's James?
 What?
You said the name "James."
I don't know.
Baby names?
I don't know. Nightmare.
You want me to scooch over next to you?
Yes.
This place is like a regular K-mart of bad vibes, ain't it, pal?
 Please, someone, help me--
--somebody, please!
Josh?!?
 Heather???
Heather?? Josh???
 Heather????
They're pulling my teeth out!!
Wha' the--
 --o-fug-me--
Heaaaaather???
 What're you, crazy??
 What're you, nuts?
Jesus!
Check this out: Burkittsville's Funniest Home Videos.
Jesus-Jesus-Jesus--
What the fuck?!?
Hey, that's 50K worth of hi-tech, chickee.
You gave me a fucking heart attack!
Oh, and you boogied all the way up here to get a good night's sleep.
We just made your every dream come true, darlin'.
Get out of here!
What're you doing with all this shit?
Shootin' "Blair Witch II," man-- what's your excuse?
Shooting "Blair Witch II."
Oh, dude, I don't think so--that is just not happening.
This is our gig.
We got jurisdiction, man--we got fuckin' permits to be here.
Oh, yeah? Let's see 'em.
They're, uh, like, in the car.
Bullshit.
Let's put it this way: one of us is going, and it's you.
What's the hassle here?
You and the Brady Bunch, Mr. Scorsese.
You're interfering with the commerce of independent film!
They're making "Blair Witch II," too.
No problem, just give us 'til dawn and we're gone.
What?
Look, guys, we're cold, we're tired we're shook--we just want to get out of here as soon as there's light. We saw something up at Coffin Rock today--
 --or someone--
--scared the living shit out of us.
What?
I don't know, I don't know--
--yeah, a hand or something--
--coming out of the water--
--stop it! Stop talking about it! I'm gonna freak!
 I just wanna go home.
 Whoa.
You didn't get it on tape, didja?
Tried, but--
Strip it down and ship it out! Coffin Rock!
Any other voices or noises you hear tonight--it ain't us.
Heather??? Mike???? Somebody??? Please????
They were never seen again. Their footage was found a year later-- underexposed and useless.
How're the cameras doing?
Due for a re-load and battery check. I'll get on it.
'Give you a hand. I think my sleep for the night just ended.
Join the club.
Well, everybody grab a coat, and pull up a rock for a night of witch-watch.
Something....really twisted...is going to happen.
Jesus...wha' happened...
Oh, fuck me! Oh, Jesus!
What happ--
--they're all gone!--
--and none of 'em were mine! I-am-so-fucked, I-am-so-fucked-- where the hell was everybody???
Asleep--
--what happened to the goddamn "Witch-watch??"
--I dunno, I just woke up--
--last thing I remember were those four clowns shooting the movie--
--yeah, the goddamn stoners! Who you think stole the stuff!?
Yeah. Got to Coffin Rock, found zip, and came back, ripped off the cameras.
Ripped? They look like they were bit off.
Smells Like Teenage Spirit.
This is funny?? This is tens of thousands of fucking dollars!  You pricks! I'll see you in fucking court!!
Not the only things missing, Nick.
That's almost a year's worth of work!  Scumbags! Oh, Jesus, Jesus....
At least you still have the tapes.
One set. Everything from midnight on--
--no, I think they're all in there.
Sonovabitch!
Those ours?
My handwriting on the face labels.
How'd you know they were--
 --hunch. Just sort've saw 'em there.
My ass--you saw those four fucking baboons put 'em there!
No.
Cotter, I think she's right. Why would those guys go to all the trouble of stealing the camera and all this other stuff and leave the tapes?
Spite.
They were making a movie--if they were going to steal anything it'd be just the tapes, to see if we had anything they didn't.
I don't think it was them.
Oh, who did then? Blair Witch? Snatching equipment to make her own sequel?
I don't know yet.
Well, please keep me fucking informed!
Those four guys--it's the only thing that makes sense.
This is a goddamn disaster. Let's just pack it up and go.
I want to see the tapes.
And what do you possibly think you're going to fucking see there?
No idea. But if that's all we've got left--
--nothing left to play 'em on, honey.
Oh, sorry, right.
You can be goddamn sure, though, I'm going to be looking at every second of 'em when I get back to Baltimore--I get proof who stole my shit and I call the cops!
We're ticketed to fly back from Baltimore, anyway.
Me, too.
Hey, I got a whole editing suite in my loft--more the fucking merrier.
Pointless.
No. I don't think so.
403 41st Street, kids: home.
I dunno it's safe to even get out of the car.
By day? No sweat.
What about night?
Not a great idea. Especially 'cross the street.
Druid Hill Park.
That's a joke?
That's its name. A pastoral glade gamboling with crackheads and homeless and averaging at least one homicide a week.
Let's get inside.
First enormous brick warehouse on your right.
Used to be a meat-packing plant. Slaughter on the ground floor-- carcasses schlepped up on this thing for dissection and grinding and--
--Cotter: shut up.
What?
Just one lock in this neighbor- hood?
All I need--
Get inside quick, they'll stop.
Too busy eating us?
Just go.
Baltimore's cheapest burglar alarm.
Had the door jimmied a few times. Nobody's yet made it inside.
Mi casa y su casa!
Su casa y shit-o hole-o.
Hey, hon'--this is what pays the rent and tuition.
Running a junk yard.
A Cyber Entrepreneurialship.
English.
I spend a lot of time on e-Bay. Buying, selling--sometimes buying then re-selling at substantial mark-up, sometimes just selling crap I find in the street.
Looks like business is booming.
There's some stuff that's hard to part with. Editing's stuff's up there--
--stairs are back through the kitchen--and a ton of bedrooms, you wanna dump your stuff or catch a nap--
I think we get the gist.
We've looked at half of one tape.
There's four other angles, man, we haven't even--
--great: we can watch Domini sleep for hours--or, shit, maybe if we stay at it for a couple of days, maybe a deer'll dash by!
For once could you just sit down, shut up, and give something a chance?
We're leaving--case dismissed for lack of evidence. Maybe on the ride home we can figure how the fuck we're going to graduate with no thesis.
I'm not going anywhere, 'til--
--bullshit!
Hey, chill, man--
--there's something here, Nick--
--fuck you--all off you--
--now c'mon!
Get your goddamn--
What--
--oh, Jesus--
I need to go to a hospital.
She lost it.
Why?
Any number of reasons--pick one, it's as good as the other.
I was out hiking, camping the past two days--that's what did it--I killed it--
--doubtful, Mrs. Leavitt. The main thing to remember is, whatever the reason, it was for the best-- it meant something was wrong.
Something was wrong.
Look, this is not my field of expertise. You seem stabilized, but why take any chances? Let's keep you overnight and have the Staff obstetrician do a follow-up tomorrow.
I guess--
No!
Mrs. Leavitt--
--I'm not staying here!
Let's talk to your husband--
--he's not my husband!
Where are my clothes??
 We'll stay overnight, get a hotel--
--Cotter's--
--whatever you want, no problem--
--still go see the OB in the morning--
--no.
Nick. Do what she says.
What can I get you?
Sleep.
Something happened to Anna in Burkittsville, in the woods, I don't know.
What? That made her lose the baby?
Something. Someone.
Who? What?
Women miscarry all the--
--no.
This is a little nuts.
Turn the tapes back on.
Fine.
What's that?
Hmm? I dunno. Chafing from the backpack, something.
That'd be up on your shoulder, maybe your lower back.
Then I have no idea.
Does it hurt?
Like hell. Play the goddamn tape.
Hey, knock it off, willya?
You wanna keep it down, she's trying to sleep.
Sorry, I didn't think we were making that much noise.
It's not a real "funny" time for us, okay?
 No....it's not.
Christ almighty--
What's going on?
Nothing. I dunno--
--you should get back into bed.
I guess, yeah.
Was that you laughing?
What?
Just now?
No.
Just...try and go back to sleep.
I get dreams. I don't like 'em.
What'd you dream?
Little boys. Looking up my skirt as I danced. Giggling.
Here.
This'll help.
Good.
There--
There, what? I didn't see anything.
Back it up, rewind, whatever you call it.
Fine.
What'd you see?
Motion. Stop there. Play it again.
--there! In the tree.
Whatta you got, telescopic vision?
Still don't see it--
--that blur, right by that branch.
Okay, a blur.
Can you zoom it or something, make it real close, real big?
I'm the ebay Boy, remember? I can't exactly afford that kind of equipment.
Who do you know who can? Where do we go?
For a blur?
There is something there--don't ask, just trust me.
Can't you like just divine it?
If I could do that, I'd be at the goddamn racetrack, not here.
 I got a friend at a Lab. I could get the whole thing blown-up, enhanced--
--go!
Four in the morning?
Cotter'll kill you.
He'll never know.
Two-to-one he dusts the keyboard for fingerprints the second he gets back.
At least go drink it somewhere spilling it won't drive him to suicide.
Okay.
What is it you thought you saw on that tape?
Still working on it.
Elly Kedward?
No. Elly Kedward's not the problem here, I don't think. She was just a good old-fashioned white witch--
You're gonna owe me the rest of your life, bud.
I know, I know.
Beta Cam's still coming back tomorrow, right?
Absolutely.
Before 5:00--
--hours before--
--Christ, they find out I let you have it for the weekend--
--no one'll ever know.
This is what you wanted enhanced?
Yeah.
You mind me asking: why the fuck?
The, uh, blur there.
Looks like a rope.
Does this look like a person stand there to you?  Domini...?
Dad...?
What'd you say?
Are you alright?
....I don't know.
So lemme see it.
Just let me get my coat off--I had eight cups of coffee, I'm wired for sound here.
Where is it?
I got the tape enhanced--and I managed to sleaze a photo blow-up. Jesus, he's gonna kill me when he finds out about the camera.
Gimme it!
Still looks like a blur, only bigger.
My friend Sid said it looked like a rope.
Jesus.
What?
That's the reason.
What?
Why she kills children.
The witch?
It's not about witches, goddamnit!
Someone want to tell me what's going on--
--and we brought it back with us!
What?
It touched me, don't you see it now?
Its fingers! Here. And here--
--and here and here and here!
I don't know how to stop it! I don't know how to kill it! But it's here right now!
Slow it down, slow it down, whatever it is, we'll figure it out.
That's why she kills children.
I know, I know--
--you don't.
They put their palms in the blood. And then they press them on your skin.
You gonna be alright?
Sure. I'm sorry.
No big deal. I'm just trying to understand.
Get some more beer.
 I think you closed the bar again. I'll have to go out.
Go to the store. When you get back, I'll try to make sense of it for you.
What're you afraid's going to happen?
That they'll start touching us inside our heads.
Sweetheart?
Miss?
Are you alright?
You have a phone?
Just outside--
You have a collect call from Heather. Will you accept the charges?
...yes.
Mom...?
Yes.
I was just calling, I know it's been a long time--
--what do you need this time, Heather?
Nothing. It's nothing like that. I just wanted to know if Dad--
--Mom...? Mom??
She wants me to talk to you, Heather.
Who is this??
Your mother's pastor.
What happened to my Dad??
There was an accident early this morning. Another car. Your father's injuries were fatal.
Yes.
I'll tell your mother not to expect you at the funeral.
No.
Where's Domini?
My room, asleep, last I checked.
Domini...?
Well, she's got to be somewhere here.
No one's been in or out since you left. Would've heard the dogs.
Domini??
Domini!!!!
Fire escape??
Don't have one.
Dominiiiiiiii!!!
She would've had to have a key, anyway, to lock the deadbolt behind her.
Well, she got out of here some- how because she's not here!!
Parents. She might've called--
Taos, New Mexico. The Sheriff's Office, please....thank you.
Good morning, Sheriff's Office.
Yes! I need to speak to Sheriff Von Teer.
He's in a meeting. Could I have him--
--it's urgent!
Could I tell him what it's regarding?
His daughter, for God's sake-- I need to know if he's heard from her this morning.
...the Sheriff is a widower. They never had any children.
....Ma'am?
I'm talking to Taos, New Mexico--
--yes--
--the Sheriff's Office--
--yes, Ma'am, can I help you with anything else?--
--his name's Von Teer! His daughter's named Domini!--
--thank you for calling--
I'm glad she's dead. She brought the thing that killed my child.
What did you see here that I can't see, damnit!
What is it that scared you so much?
Finally got her back to sleep.
Nick, what you should do is get her back up and get her to a goddamn doctor.
Jesus, you don't think I know that? You don't think I've tried? She won't fucking go-- she won't leave this place.
She's off her fucking rocker--
--I know!
I'm sorry.
Yeah, I know. It's...alright. We're all a little--
--a lot.
Heather.
Yeah.
Okay. Hypothetically.
Shoot.
You think....there could've been something up in those woods that Anna--
--it's not a could've--there was, Nick. And it fucked up Anna, and did something to Domini, and it caused my father to die, and it's here with us in this place now. And I don't have one single idea in hell what's going to happen next, just that it's going to happen to one of us. And then the other. And then the other. It's going to get into our brains.
There's explanations. Rational explanations for everything that's happened. We'll drive ourselves crazy if we keep obsessing on supernatural what-ifs.
That feels good. Lower--down into my neck.
I don't know what it is, but there is something happening here, and it's starting to scare the living shit out me, and look, I'm just not going to argue the point anymore--you want to stay here, stay, but I've got to get the fuck out of here, and I'm begging you to come with me.
I can't.
Then I'm going--
--no, you're not. You love me too much. You don't want to see them kill me.
This could be something right here, do you think it's some- thing, Heather--?
--but that could be just a shadow, I think it's a shadow, it's nothing, Heather, do you think it's nothing--
It's about the tree, it's something about the tree.
--the goddamn tree, Domini, for chrissake, what?
Same trees. They took Elly Kedward out to the same kind of trees.
 --I look and look in the tree, all I ever see, he's always there watching, that stupid owl, over and over--
--Cotter, where can I get on-line?
--anywhere, anywhere, all up and live, all the time--fucking owl--
Cotter?
Fucking owl!
You think it's possible the tree in the Parr foundation is the same one they tied Elly Kedward to?
No idea--goddamitt!
Boy Kurth.
Heather, does that look like Domini there?
Where?
Down there in the Park.
Domini...?
Not the place you want to announce your arrival.
How's she going to know where to--
--things got a way of finding you here.
It's freezing.
Next time try putting on shoes--
What the fuck--??
--I don't know.
The moon trying to shoot down through all these trees--can make things funky--
--I saw what I saw.
Yeah. Me too.
The cart they brought Elly Kedward into the woods with--
--into the Black Hills with--200- something miles from here--
--Domini!
Oh, Jesus, what happened, are you--
Be it still alive, James?
What--
--then finish the job, lads!
Jesus!
What the fuck you do that for??
I didn't.
--and one of the little boys, his name was James. As in the boy James Kurth--the first child to disappear from the town of Blair after they banished Elly Kedward.
What?
I dunno it's anything. It's a name Anna's mentioned--from her dreams.
I can't handle this anymore.
How much of that stuff you guys been smoking?
Enough to keep sane.
Enough to make shapes and shadows in the dark into something else.
Spare me.
Hey, chemicals, fear, sleep- deprivation--and a round-the-clock obsession with the occult--hell've a recipe for a mind-fuck.
Except we seem about 18 times more together than you.
I'd strongly advise you to join us--
--before you lose your emotional lunch.
 Yeah, what the hell.
Atta boy--
We are being fucked with here, someone or something.
Domini.
Why in the world would she--
--why in the world would she just fly the coop in the first place?
Chrissake: why any of this?
I think it's time to get out of here.
Nobody's going anywhere--
--hell, I don't think I'm ever leaving this place again--
--one of us, all of us--I have no idea--brought whatever this thing is back here. We're not going to go out there and spread it around like Typhoid Mary. We're gonna figure it out, we're gonna bring a goddamn end to it.
Domini's the only logical explanation.
We're not dealing with fucking logic here!
It's Domini, it's not Domini, I don't care--all I know is I'm not dealing with something--anything-- snuffing me in my sleep. I want to do what we did in the woods-- surveillance of this whole place 24/7, with somebody monitoring those cameras every second. There's something, somebody here, I want to see 'em coming.
I thought all your equipment got stolen.
All the shit that was worth anything, yes. You'd be amazed, though, what you can get free on the 'net.
That's good! Tie it off!
--Jee-zus!!!--
--Christ!!
I can't do it!
Don't! You're making me lose my grip.
I'm coming! I'm coming!
Just hold on!
I can't!
Just let it go, I've got you!
What're you nuts--
--it's less than four feet, just--
--shit!!!
--don't move, don't even breathe--
Jesusjesusjesus....
Yeah--please don't do that again.
I could see up your dress.
Gothic rune--the letter "S."
Or a blood blister--or a bruise.
Must be that blue collar life we all lead.
That's a "j."
For "James?"
Goes right along with these two.
Put 'em together that's a "k." James Kurth--
--or Lyme Disease or poison sumac, or God knows what-else we could have picked up in the woods.
You know what we picked up in the woods--
Who?
No one ever comes here.
Have to open the door to find out.
....I'll....go.
I know you're in there, you piece of shit!
 You have to go.
Not until I get that Beta Cam back! We're both in a world of shit here!!
 I can't.
It's my fucking job, man!!
I can't let you in.
I should check on Anna.
Check the monitor, she's fine.
She's far from "fine."
You're needed here--keep watching--
--f'chrissake, Heather, it's not like the two of us are gonna doze off he leaves for two seconds--
--I don't trust anybody, not even me, anymore--
--shhhh! #5, there's something up there!
What?
One of the printers.
No. We all go.
Anna--
--fuck Anna!
No, you--
--it's for you. Came through email. How it started printing without a command, though--
--it's the "Blair Witch Cult"--a copy-- some pages from--one of them on the site must've gotten my message--
--who?
Doesn't say--it's just these pages.
 "taken by the witch as they were marked by her--first Jamie Kurth when the stain appeared on his brow that next summer--
"for t'was said he and Jon Edmunds and other boys who found Elly Kedward still on her tree in the snow. Poking her with sticks finding her still living. Taking her bonds and noosing them to her neck, hanging her from her tree until she perished."
That's the little boys. Elly Kedward didn't die from "exposure" out there: she was executed.  "Killing Elly Kedward, but not the witch herself, who floated from the mortal husk--"
"It's why the witch kills children."
I thought all witches were benign and good.
Not this one.
I need you to talk to me, talk to me about the dreams--about James, the other boys.
I don't...I don't understand them myself.
Try, please, Anna--
--bad boys, mean boys, cowardly boys--just like Domini.
What do you mean?
A coward too. That's why she had to go.
What happened to her, where did she go?
Don't know--just that she was afraid--
--Anna--
What, are you alright?
My eye, is there something in my eye?
Not that I can see.
Closer. Lift the lid and look-- it hurts.
No.
Closer.
Remember....what Mary Brown said-- she could see the witch's hands on my face, her mouth sucking on mine.
Anna's the witch.
What the fuck's going on here?
Does she have marks, Nick--like the ones we have, that Domini had?
Why?
Does she, goddamnit??
Not that I've seen--but that has no meaning--that means nothing.
Why was she exempted, Nick?
Maybe whatever they are, they just haven't appeared yet on her?
You really believe that?
It's possible for chrissake--
--the marks appear, then you disappear. Like the little Kurth boy, like Domini, as soon as they come to full bloom--and mine are!
Mine, too. And so are yours, pal.
Like a blueprint for disembowelment.
There are other explanations! She is not the goddamn witch, that's insane!
Then just give me one of your explanations that all three of us'll buy.
I don't....
I want to see something!
Whatever you want.
The clothes--take 'em off-- I want to see every square inch--
--no, what's wrong with you?
Are you marked like this??
Why?
I see for proof positive you're the goddamn witch--
You killed Domini, didn't you, witch??
I'm not a witch, you're all crazy!
Just say you are--we won't hurt you--
--we'll just make you go away, so you can't hurt anyone else--
--like you hurt the baby--
--what're you saying?? I didn't have anything to do with--
--the witch kills children--
I haven't killed any--
--Jamie Kurth, Jonathan Edmunds--
 --my God, Nick???
Just say the words, Anna.
Please! Please...? I haven't done anything.
Bullshit! Talk!
Nick!!
Out of my hands.
What're you doing??
Hang you like the witch you are, unless--
--Nick!!
Confess!
Alright! Fuck you, fuck all of you! I'm her.
Oh, Jesus, no--
--fuck your bullshit pieties! You were the next to die, asshole!
