There's a moment of orderly silence before a football play begins. Players are in position, linemen are frozen, and anything's possible. Then, like a traffic accident, stuff begins to randomly collide. From the snap of the ball to the snap of the first bone is closer to four seconds than five.
One Mississippi. Joe Theismann, the Redskins quarterback, takes the snap and hands off to his running back. JOE THEISMANN hands off to JOHN RIGGINS, who takes two steps forward, then turns and tosses the ball back'to Theismann. The footage PAUSES AND PLAYS like a coach breaking down film.
Two Mississippi. It's a trick play, a flea flicker, and the running back tosses the ball back to the quarterback. HARRY CARSON, the Giants linebacker sees that Theismann has the ball back and races toward him. Theismann steps up and to the side and Carson flies past.
Three Mississippi. Up to now the play's been defined by what the quarterback sees. It's about to be defined by what he doesn't. LAWRENCE TAYLOR carves a wide circle around the Redskins lineman trying to block him.
Four Mississippi. Lawrence Taylor is the best defensive player in the NFL and has been from the time he stepped onto the field as a rookie. The frozen image of Taylor comes to life as he jackknifes Theismann's body. PLAYERS' FACES react to what they're seeing. Devastating. TAYLOR pops up from the pile and jumps around like a madman.
He will also change the game of football as we know it. WE ARE WATCHING the MNF feed and hear the ANNOUNCER'S VOICES.
Again, we'll look at it with the reverse angle one more time. And I suggest if your stomach is weak you just don't watch.
Joe Theissman never played another down of football.
And you'd be right. What you probably don't know is that more often than not the second highest paid player is, thanks to Lawrence Taylor, a left tackle. The camera goes to WALTER JONES, Seattle's left tackle.
Because, as every housewife knows, the first check you write is for the mortgage and the second is for the insurance. The left tackle's job is to protect the quarterback from what he can't see coming. To protect his blind side.
The ideal left tackle is big, but a lot of people are big. He is wide in the butt and massive in the thighs. He has long arms, giant hands and feet as quick as a hiccup.
This is a rare and expensive combination the need for which can be traced to that Monday night game and Lawrence. Taylor. For on that day he not only altered Joe Theismann's life, but mine as well. As Michael continues toward us he begins to go OUT OF FOCUS --
Mr. Oher, do you know why I'm here?
Do you know, do you understand why I'm here?
To... investigate.
Yes. To investigate. I'm here to investigate your odd... predicament.
Do you find it odd? Your predicament?
Iono [I don't know]... Investigator Granger sifts through her briefcase, pulls out files, documents - a good bit of evidence for whatever trouble Michael is in. She sits back, stares at Michael, as if trying to figure him out. Michael can't meet her gaze. He looks out the window, rubs his knees some more.
Can I... can I leave now?
They say you the coach. Cotton eyes Tony, offers a hand.
Tony Hamilton, but everybody call me Big Tony.
What can I do for you, Tony?
Sure is pretty, huh, Big Mike? Mike doesn't answer, just takes it all in. Steven sees and opens a container filled to the brim with balls - footballs, basketballs, four square balls.
Not even locked!
White people are crazy.
You see I promised my mama Boo, on her deathbed, that I would get Steven outta public and into a church school.
I appreciate that but I'm not involved with admissions.
I figured I'd come to you; seeing as you might need some players.
What sport does he play?
Anything with a ball. Good, too. He has Cotton's attention for a moment, then it passes...
Classes start in a week. It'd have to be for next semester.
I know what you're thinking, Coach, but I got money. I'm a mechanic at Wilson's Auto t'other side of town.
"They?" You only mentioned one son.
Steven, yessir, but I brought another boy along.
Another boy?
Yeah, Big Mike. He stays on our couch sometimes. It's a bad deal. His mama's on the crack pipe and he ain't got nobody. He just wanted to come along with us today.
Would... Big Mike be an applicant as well?
Yeah, sure, why not. Cotton sighs, considers what to do.
They'd have to fill out applications and make an appointment for interviews.
I was hopin' you might just interview 'em now.
They're here? Big Tony points out the.window to the playground where Steven and Michael are playing one on one basketball.
The little ones Steven and the big
Big Mike.
Yeah. That's right.
Mother of God...
Are there spots available or not? PAUL SANDSTROM, Principal, taps his fingers before...
Technically, yes, in both grades. But we have a greater responsibility than just filling classrooms. Steven Hamilton's paperwork looks acceptable and I believe he would be capable of succeeding here but the other kid -- Sandstrom looks through papers for the name.
Big Mike.
Michael Oher gives us no reason to believe, based on his record, that he would be successful here.
How bad could it be? Another board member, MRS. SMITH, pores over Michael's file, which is a mess. She finds facts and lays them out ---
We're not sure exactly how old he is due to lack of records. He has a measured IQ of 80. That's 6th percentile. He's been enrolled in seven different institutions, including a gap of eighteen months around the age of ten when he apparently didn't attend school at all. He repeated first grade as well as second, there's no record of attendance in third, and in fourth grade --
So they moved him ahead without going to third grade. That says something.
Everyone passed him along - gave him D's so they could hand their problem off to the next school.
Brave kid.  For wanting to come here. For wanting a quality education. An education denied him by the poor quality of the schools he's attended. Most kids with his background wouldn't come within two hundred miles of this place.
Coach Cotton, we understand your interest in the young man's athletic abilities.
He wouldn't be able to play until he got his grades up anyway.
Forget sports! Look at the wall. He points to the crest on the wall. Beneath it: "NEIGHBORLY,
Christian. We either take that seriously or we paint over it. You don't admit Michael Oher for sports, you admit him because it's the right thing to do. Their faces announce that he's made a point.
Class, this is Mike Oher and he's new here so I expect you all to make him feel welcome.  Mike, take any empty seat.
This is a quiz based on the information you learned last year in your science curriculum.
It's okay.
Can I leave now? She nods and watches him stand and walk away. She glances down at the sheet, turns it over and sees... A DRAWING on the back - a boat on an ocean. On the boat is a single, stick figure person. It's sweet but looks like a third grader drew it.
Why he gotta always stay here?
Ain't got nowhere else.
And how's that your problem? You the Red Cross all of a sudden? Michael tries to shut his eyes.
Hey, Big Mike, um... my Pops' girlfriend... she don't really want you to stay with us no more. Big Tony's Taurus pulls into the lot.
We can still give you rides if you want?
Naw, it's aright. Steven gets in the Taurus. Michael watches it drive away.
 I don't care if Patrick Ramsey did approve the chair. He's an NFL quarterback not Martha frickin' Stewart.
There's a difference between Bunny Williams and Lazee-boy.
Hi, sweetie! We're on the Kidspace committee together, aren't we?! It'll be a hoot!
S.J., you know that kid?
What kid?
Black kid. Up in the corner.
Be goes to high school here. His name is Big something... Big Mike. Sean eyes Michael suspiciously.
He look like a volleyball fan to you? Leigh Anne, loaded up with refreshments, makes her way up the stands to her family. She has a nod, a smile, a bon mot, for everyone she passes. As she sits...
What'd I miss?
Collins got a dig.
It's girl's volleyball, Mom. You didn't miss anything. Leigh Anne gives him a look then stands and shouts --
Collins! Move your feet! ON THE COURT - COLLINS TUOHY, a beautiful 16-year-old, sighs and gives her mother a look - "Don't embarrass me!"
Collins, we'll wait outside. And don't double condition in the shower - you still have homework!
I'm going over to Cannon's house to study.
Can I go.to the Johnson's for dinner? They invited me.
What's so awful about our house? Sean smiles, shakes his head as SJ and Collins leave.
Well, the big guy's been here a month and he ain't cutting it in my class.
Why would Admissions do this? It's not fair to us or the boy.
Just setting him up to fail.
I don't think he has any idea what I'm teaching.
And how would you know if he did? He won't even talk. Mrs. Boswell can't contain herself.
He writes.
His name. Barely. Mrs. Boswell goes to'her purse, pulls out a crumpled page.
He threw this in the trash can.  "I look and I see white everywhere: white walls, white floors, and a lot of white people. The teachers do not know I have no idea of anything they are talking about. I do not want to listen to anyone, especially the teachers.
They are giving homework and expecting me to do the problems on my own. I have never done homework in my life. I go to the bathroom, look in the mirror and say, "This is not Michael Oher."  He entitled it "White Walls." The room is dead quiet.
How's the spelling? Mrs. Boswell stuffs the page back in her purse and leaves.
If he makes his grades he'll be eligible in the spring.
If he makes his grades.
But boy-hidey, just look at him. Cotton is admiring Michael's size but Sean sees something else. He stands, walks over to Michael, who barely looks up.
What did you eat for lunch today?
Here in the cafeteria.
I didn't ask where you ate, I asked what you ate.
A few things.
Do you need some money? For lunch?
I don't need any. Sean walks back over to Coach Cotton.
Buy him a semester lunch pass and put it on my bill.  He's hungry.
You could tell that by looking at him?
I didn't grow up all that different from him. At public school they
You'll have one hour. If you finish early put it on my desk and sit quietly. She looks at the class as they begin to work, then sees Michael just staring at his test. She sighs, makes a decision, rises and walks over.
Mike, come with me.
You can take the test back here away from everybody else. I'll sit
Mike, how about I ask the questions and you tell me the answers or as much as you know. She looks at his hands - huge next to hers - then reads:
Protozoans are classified based on: a) how they get their food, b) how they reproduce, c) how they move, or d) both a and c. Michael just stares. After a long moment
Iono...
Just try. Ask questions if you don't understand. But still Michael stares at the page. The look on her face says she's about to give up when He lifts his eyes to her and points to -- -- the question on the test - specifically to the word "classified".
"Classified". It means how things are grouped together.
Like our "class"?
Exactly. This science course is classified based on what grade y'all are in. Eleventh. Michael nods understanding.
Okay, Mike, you ready to answer the question?
He knows it!
Who knows it and what does he know?
The material. Michael Oher. I gave him this test verbally. She holds up the test -- marked with a large red "C".
On how big a curve?
He's been listening the whole time. It's amazing what he's absorbed. And, trust me, he's listening to you, too. Okay, so his reading level is low and he has no idea how to learn in a classroom, but...  I'm not saying he's going to pass but Big Mike is not stupid.
They're stuck, not sure if they should talk to this "stranger". They jump off the swings and run away.
Smile at 'em. Michael turns to see Si nearby, watching him.
It lets them know you're their friend. Did you know that even little kids born blind smile? They've never seen anyone do it before but they smile anyway. So it's universal. That's why it works. Not that you should fake it or anything... You're Big Mike, right? Sean holds. out a fist for Mike to "knock" and the two walk toward the school entrance.
I'm Sean, but everyone calls me Si -- that's for Sean Junior because my father's name is Sean. Sean Tuohy. He was a basketball star at Ole Miss, point guard, and now he owns like a million Taco Bells. Leigh Anne's car pulls up to the pick up/drop off and Si starts toward it.
Manana'. Michael smiles at the kid, who smiles back.
Who's that SJ?
Big Mike.
Get your feet off my dash.
Big Mike?...
Mike, I just got a call from someone at the police department.  Do you remember the story in the papers awhile back about the man who fell off an overpass?  No one knew who he was and they're not sure if he jumped, or if... at any rate he passed away. Sandstrom struggles with how to say the words.
Mike, the man... was your father. Michael takes this in. without showing emotion.
They've been looking for someone to notify and came across your name on our registry. I'm really sorry, son.
Iono.
I'll try and find out where he's buried. Maybe we could go visit? Michael nods, then rises and walks away.
A WOMAN, the only other patron, reads a magazine. When he turns to look at her, she becomes quite nervous. She sets down the magazine and walks outside. It seems Michael was expecting this because as soon as she leaves he takes his wet T-shirt, wrings it-out, walks to her dryer and tosses the shirt inside to dry with her things.
Turn on the heat!
I don't know where it is.
It's fifteen degrees, you've had this car a month and you don't know how to turn on the heat?!  What would you do without.me?
Lots of things you'll never know about.
Get a room.
Si, don't let this go to your head but I thought you were very convincing in the role of... uh...
Indian Number Three. I tried out for the Chief but they gave it to Andy Sung. I can't be sure but I think there was some multi-cultural bias thing working.
Or maybe they just thought he'd make a better Chief.
Dad, he's like Chinese.
And you're Irish. If you weren't the Chief how come you got the headdress? Si hesitates a bit before --
Dad, I'm gonna need a few more of those free Quesadilla tickets.
Don't laugh too hard. The Quesadilla saved our ass.
What is he wearing? It's below freezing. What's his name again?
Where's he going? She gives Sean a look. Sean rolls down his window.
Hey, Big Mike! Michael stops in the crosswalk, looks to the car.
Where you headin'?
Gym.._. Sean nods, rolls his window back up and drives as the light turns green.
The gym? It's nine o'clock. No answer to this. They drive another half block,before --
Turn around. Sean sighs, knowing better than to argue.
Big Mike, my name is Leigh Anne Tuohy. My kids go to Wingate. You said you're going to the gym? Michael slowly nods.
The school gym's closed. Michael takes this in but doesn't respond.
Why were you going to the gym?  Big Mike?! Why were you going to the gym?
Because... it's warm. This hits her all at once. She bites her lip.
Do you have anywhere to stay tonight? Michael eyes the ground, then nods.
Don't you dare lie to me.
I've seen that look many times. She's about to get her way. Leigh Anne makes her way back to the car, with Michael in tow. She opens the back door and he gets in next to SJ in his headdress. Leigh Anne climbs into the front seat, closes the door. Sean is looking at her.
Where we going?
Home.
How'd the dork do in the play? She turns to see... Sean, Leigh Anne, SJ in headdress and Big Mike.
Um... okay...
I'd give you the guest bedroom but it's full of sample boxes. And the sectional in the family room slides apart when you sleep on it. At least that's what Sean says.
Mr. Tuohy sleeps on the couch?
Only when he's bad. There's a powder room right there and we're upstairs if you need us. The two share a look, then...
Sleep tight, honey. She leaves. Michael is dumbfounded, stares at everything in the room, then sits on the couch.
Psst... SJ is in the doorway to the kitchen.
If you can't sleep, my room is the first one at the top of the back stairs. I got X-Box, Madden, everything.
Was this a bad idea?
What?
Don't lie there and pretend you're not thinking the same thing as me.
Fine, tell me what you're thinking so I can know what's supposed to be on my mind.
How well do you know Big Mike?
In case you haven't noticed he doesn't have much to say. What's the big deal? It's just one night.  It is just one night, right?.. Leigh Anne?...
Do you think he'll steal anything?
I guess we'll know in. the morning. He rolls over to go to sleep. Leigh Anne just sits, stares.
If you hear a scream call the insurance adjustor.
Up and at 'em. Collins groans. Leigh Anne picks up a few pieces of clothes. on her way out and groans at the mess. We stay with her as she re-enters the hallway, walks and opens the door to --
Sean Junior! She opens the shades.
Clean this place up before you come downstairs. You hear me? Si crawls out of bed and Leigh Anne exits the room and starts down the stairs, almost afraid of what she'll find.
Mike? Big Mike?! Nothing. She hears a DOG BARKING in the neighborhood and moves to the window to look out.
Big Mike!
Where are you going?
Iono.
Are you spending Thanksgiving with your family? Michael shakes his head.
Come and get it! Sean sits at the TV,"watching an Ole Miss football game, while SJ plays.video games on another. Collins chats on her cell. Michael sits off to the side, taking it all in.
SJ, Ole Miss is about to score!
Which means they're about to fumble. They all shuffle over, grab plates, start piling on food. Sean loads his plate and heads back to the couch.
Looks great, hon. Collins plate is pretty delicately apportioned.
I see a lot of starch. SJ jams turkey into a roll and lathers on cranberry sauce - creating an easy to eat sandwich. He walks away.
As much as you want.
Why are we eating in here? Leigh Anne holds out her hands.
Shall we say grace? The Tuohy family plus Michael hold hands. Collins stares at her tiny hand intertwined with Michael's. As Leigh Anne prays Michael tries to emulate behavior without closing his eyes, taking it all in...
Heavenly Father. We thank you for all your many blessings on this family. We thank you for bringing us a new friend. And we ask that you look after. us in this holiday season and never let us forget just how very fortunate we are. Amen. A chorus of Amens and they all dig in. Michael is unsure at first how to correctly use the silverware. He picks up the fork and Leigh Anne nods, "that's right". She eyes Michael's stained shirt.
Big Mike, do you like to shop?  Because tomorrow I think I'm gonna have to show you how it's done.
I qot clothes.
You "have" clothes.. And an extra T- shirt in a plastic bag does not a wardrobe make. He looks out the window.
Okay, fine, let's go get 'em. Just tell me where I'm going. No answer. Frustrated, she pulls the car over to the curb and puts it in park.
Tell me everything I need to know about you. He still stares out the window.
Who takes care of you?
Look, Big Mike, we can do this the easy way - or we can do it the hard way. Take your pick. He eyes the floor.
Fine. Tell me one thing I should know about you. One thing!
I don't like to be called Big Mike. She wasn't expecting this, nods her head.
Okay. Mike or Michael?  Tell you what, from now on, to me, 'you're Michael. So,... Michael, where we headed?
This is where your mother lives? He nods and she opens her door.
Okay, let's go. He forcefully reaches across her and closes the door, catching her off guard.
Don't get out!
Who's going to help you with your clothes?
Big Mike! Where you been?! Michael ignores, keeps walking.
And who's that fine piece o' thing driving you around? One of Alton's minions, DAVID, sits nearby. Michael sees him, nods.
Hey, David. David, a little embarrassed to be with Alton, nods back.
She wadn't home.
We can come back. Michael takes this in, looks out the window.
She prolly moved to a nicer place.
I've lived in Memphis my whole life and never been anywhere near here. You're going to take care of me, right?
I got your back.
That's good to know. Thank you. As they start to walk, Leigh Anne reaches up and takes Michael's arm. He holds it out for her.
Everything I got to fit him will be -right here.
This is it? If this is all you got why's it say "Big and Tall" on the sign?
Big and Tall. You need "Bigger and Taller". He walks away. She starts to pore through the small rack.
Anything you like?
And before you choose something think about yourself wearing it and ask yourself: Is this me?
He shakes his head again. After a beat he points. almost laughs.
This one? This is the one you like? He nods, completely sure.
Have a great day. Learn something! They say a few good-byes, get out and walk toward the arch. Only then do we see what Michael is wearing: a GARGANTUAN
Don't get your panties in a wad.
The best part about Paris was the food.
They use sauce like we use gravy. I had to join a gym the day'we got back.
Any of y'all spent much time on the other side of town?
On the freeway.
Where exactly are you talking about?
Alabama Street... Hurt Village.
Hurt Village -- that sounds like a threat.
You're not far off.
It would "hurt" me to go there.
It would certainly hurt your reputation to go there.
 I'm actually from there but didn't mind hard work and look where I am now.
Eating an eighteen dollar salad.
And it's a little soggy to be honest.
Such a shame.
 Yes it is.
Civil rights was responsible for some good things but those programs - building ugly, low cost housing. I mean how could you be creative if you lived there? It's stifling.
Did you know that black men were employed at a higher rate before those programs? It's a fact.
They're not "black", Elaine. The term du jour is African-American.
And what if they're from Jamaica, or like Bermuda.
Then they're BerMUDian-Americans. They all cringe and laugh.
So, why are you asking about the projects, Leigh.Anne? Another one of your charities?
A project for the projects. That's catchy. Money would raise itself.  Don't laugh. Count me in, Leigh Anne. And they laugh harder. Leigh Anne smiles, biting her lip.
It can't be that hard.
Oh, yeah?... Si looks at the Michael's notebook.
There are different parts of a sentence and you just have to draw lines showing what they do. Sean stops by the refrigerator for a cold drink while he talks on his cell...
Dad, you remember how to diagram sentences?
Nah. Sean starts to leave, then stops at the door, turns around, sighs and walks over. He leans in over Michael.
Let's see...
You don't have to help.  I mean if you're busy or somethin'.
I know.  Think of a sentence like a football team. This is a noun here, see? That's like the team name or what they're known for - whether they're a running team or a passing team. And this is the verb. That's what makes 'em go - like a star player -- maybe a quarterback, maybe a running back. And this is an adjective - everybody oohs and ahs over adjectives but they're not as important as verbs.
They're like wide receivers.
Or kickers. Michael just stares at them.
You have no idea what we're talking about, do you?
Not exactly. They all laugh.
Leigh Anne watches, fixated on the image of the three. Sean has an arm on Michael's shoulder. She smiles, almost sadly.
Do you want to stay here, Michael? He keeps working.
Because if you want to... stay... for awhile... longer... I'll try and find some time to figure out a bedroom for you. He stops, turns to her. She walks over, examines the structure of the couch. It sags a bit.
I mean, look at this, you've practically ruined a.ten thousand dollar couch. She moves closer to him. Her face softens.
Do you want to stay here, Michael?
I don't want to go anyplace else. She's a bit befuddled by the response.
Well,... alright then.
I see here on the admission that we're Michael's contact for medical emergencies? Mrs. Smith  sits with her.
Sean wrote that in last week. We needed a contact number and the ones listed weren't in service.
Love that man. Leigh Anne pulls out another sheet, hands it over...
What's this?
The state makes schools measure for career aptitude in eighth grade. It came with his'file.
They try to figure out what a kid's going to be in the eighth grade? What does. it say about Michael? Mrs. Smith nods and reads over Michael's results.
Doesn't look promising. Spatial relations - third percentile.. Ability to learn - fifth percentile.  It's funny though. He tested in the 98th percentile in one category.
Which one?
"Protective instincts." Leigh Anne smiles and hands the file back.
It's just so sad. Leigh Anne considers this, then...
Yes, it is sad. So sad. But he either doesn't know it or doesn't think so and it's my job, and your job, to make sure he doesn't find out.  Michael Oher doesn't feel sorry for himself and I'll be damned if he starts to because of the way we treat him.  "Darned."
I had to put half my samples in storage but well, anyway, back there's a desk.  Chest o'drawers. Night stand. Lamps. Alarm clock. Bed. Sean says a lot of pro athletes use futons if they can't find a big enough bed. Michael doesn't dare touch anything, just stares in awe.
Well, try it out. See if it feels okay. He gingerly moves to the bed; touches it.
It's mine?
Yeah.  What?
Never had one before.
A bed. We can see this unsettles her. She turns away a bit, trying to contain herself.
Well, you got one now.
Define Osmosis, Michael.
I think I know that. It's when water...
Name the combatants in the battle of Waterloo.
I know that. The little guy, Napoleon was on one side and...
What?
Enough with the rugby shirts. You look like a giant bumble bee. Collins walks by with friends and glances but ignores them.
Who's the big guy hanging around with your little brother?
Just another one of Mom's projects.
That must get incredibly old. Collins' look says, "yes it does."
That Taco Bell. The KFC catty corner. The Long John Silvers on the next block.
You own all of 'ern?
Yeah. We've got hundreds.
Is that why Mr. Tuohy don't have to go to work?
Hey, hey now. I'm working even when I'm not working.
And y'all eat at those places for free?
All you want. It's awesome.
What do y'all do with the leftover food? At the restaurant?,
Well, we have to throw some of it away. What's already been cooked.
That's too bad.
Yeah, I'd rather sell it.
Seems like you could give it away or something? You should check into that, Daddy. Leigh Anne and Sean share a look and a smile.
All right, I will.
Why ain't we eatin' at one of yours tonight?
.Because tonight is a special occasion.
What?
I talked to Coach Cotton today. Michael's grades improved enough that he can do spring'training for football in March.
Isn't that great?
Oh, man, you are gonna crush some people! Michael almost smiles, a little unsure.
I've got a design book I need to get. Sean, go check on our reservation.
They'll seat us when we walk in the door. You can get the book after dinner.
 They might be closed by then.
I need some new magazines. SJ shrugs and joins the girls, as does Michael. Sean watches as his family deserts him.
Come on, your dad's already PO'ed. Collins holds up a book. Sendak's WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE.
Remember this one, Mom? You read it to us like a thousand times. She softens, walks over, takes the book.
"And he gnashed his terrible teeth and roared his terrible roar.-
I always liked this one. He holds up THE STORY OF FERDINAND.
Yeah, me too. Leigh Anne sees Michael left out, but interested.
Michael, your Mama ever read either one of those to you? He just stares at her, the answer obvious.
No one ever...
Now that was a good steak.
Thanks, Daddy.
Thanks.
You're welcome. As the car pulls up everyone walks toward it except Michael who notices something else -- AT THE SIDE DOOR: A BUSBOY steps outside for a smoke. Michael absently walks over.
Michael?... Leigh Anne touches Sean's arm, silencing him. They watch as -- Michael greets the busboy. They stand a few feet apart talking. They nod at each other and after a few seconds -- They hug. Leigh Ann is amazed. She's never seen affection in Michael.
Who was that boy you were talking to, Michael? At the restaurant.
Marcus.
He works there?
Yeah.
And how do you know Marcus?
He's my brother. Complete silence in the car. Leigh Anne finally breaks it --
Well, I'd like to meet him someday. Would that be okay with you?
I don't know where he stays.
When's the last time you saw him, Michael?
When I was little mebbe.
"Once upon a time in Spain, there was a little bull --"
"...and his name was Ferdinand. All the other little bulls he lived with would run and jump and butt their heads together, but not Ferdinand. He liked to sit just quietly and smell the flowers"...
What?
Huh?
Why are you smiling?
I don't know. I'm just happy. Really happy.
Does. this happiness have anything to do with Michael?
No. It has everything to do with Michael. Sean smiles, kisses her, turns off the light. She snuggles next to him and kisses the back of his neck.
Oh... He gets the message, rolls over and kisses her on the lips.
Happy's good. As their amorous activities continue...
I think we should start a charity. For kids like him.
 Sure, okay.
Maybe fund a program at Wingate.
Absolutely...
Are you even listening to me?
I try to concentrate on one thing at a time.
You knew I was a multi-tasker when you married me. She kisses him and they roll over, laughing.
Okay, big smiles everyone! FLASH! Leigh Anne smiles but notices --- Michael sitting on the couch by himself.
Michael! Come over here and get in the next one. Sean gives her a look like she's crazy.
We don't have a single picture with him.  Oh, come on. It's not like I'm gonna put it on the Christmas card. Michael moves in behind the family, dwarfing them.
Okay, really big smiles. One, two, three... say Rebels!
Who's winning?
Tennessee.
Too bad. Who are they playing?
So you root against Tennessee no matter who they're playing?
Yep. With gusto.
Collie-bell, I thought you were going to your boyfriend's?
I'm just gonna hang around here today.
I like that.
Coupla messages on the machine. She pushes PLAY on the message machine.
Hey, Leigh Anne, it's Patrick Ramsey.
You sent me these measurements for clothes and I posted 'em in the locker room for donations but there's a problem.
I mean, are you sure the sizes are right, because there's nobody on our team who's that big? Gimme a call.
Hey, Sean, hey Leigh Anne, it's cousin Bobby. Happy New Years!
Listen, I've had about five cold ones so'I'm just gonna go ahead and ask... Who's the colored boy in y'all's,Christmas Card?
Leigh Anne, you looked teeny-tiny next to him.
It was like you were Jessica Lange and he was King Kong.
I taped your card to, the fridge. The next morning Frank almost gagged on his orange juice.
Does Michael get the family discount at Taco Bell? Because if he does Sean's gonna lose a few stores. More laughter.
Look, he's a great kid.
I say just make it official and adopt him. Big laughs at the "crazy" idea.
He'll be eighteen in a few months.  So, I mean it wouldn't make much sense to legally adopt him, right? They realize she's thought about it and stop laughing. After an awkward beat of silence...
Is this some kind of white guilt thing, Leigh Anne? I mean charity's the Lord's work but...
What will your daddy say?
Before or after he turns over in his grave? Daddy's gone five years now, Elaine, and to make matters worse you were at the funeral. You wore Chanel with that awful black hat. Before Elaine can attack --
Look, here's the deal. I don't need any of y'all to approve of my choices. But I do ask you to respect them. You have no idea what this boy's been through.
And if this is going to be a running diatribe I can find an overpriced salad a lot closer to home.
I'm so sorry, Leigh Anne. We didn't intend to --
No, we didn't, really --
I mean, what you're doing is so great. To open your home to him. You're changing his life. Leigh Anne smiles to herself, realizing...
No. He's changing mine.
That's awesome for you, but... what about Collins?
What about Collins?
Aren't you worried, even just a little?  I mean he is a boy, a large, black boy, sleeping under the same roof. Leigh Anne stares at them, shakes her head then grabs the
I've got this.  Shame on you. And strides away.
Be honest with me now, okay? Collins nods, having no idea what her mother is about to say.
Is Michael being here weird for you?
They're stupid kids, who cares what they say.
What kids?
At school. They're juvenile.
And what do the juvenile kids say?
It's really not worth repeating. And don't worry about SJ - he loves the attention. He introduces Michael as his big brother.
What about you?
It's fine.  I mean, you can't just throw him out on the street.
I can make other arrangements.  Just let me know. Okay?... Leigh Anne kisses Collins goodnight.
Hi. Need a push? They giggle and Michael pushes them, one arm each until they're flying high and squealing.
Collins watches.
Where are you going? Collins walks away toward Michael.
Collins? They are aghast when they see Collins set down her books across from Michael and sit.
Quit looking at me like that. I mean, we study together at home. Eyes in the library are on the pair as they start to read.
You know how much those things weigh? This kid's gonna make us all famous.
Easy, Bert. It's only the spring and he hasn't even been through his first practice.
Okay, Mike, you fought off the block but you've got to shuck him and make the tackle. You got it?
Michael gets down in a his stance and when the ball is snapped he gets under the blocker and lifts him up like WWF. The quarterback goes back to pass and sees Michael lumbering toward him with the lineman on his shoulders. The Quarterback's eyes go wide and he races out of the pocket and throws and incomplete pass. ANOTHER WHISTLE.
Shuck the blocker, Mike! Michael gingerly sets the lineman on the ground.
How's he doing?
Doesn't quite have the hang of it yet.
No! Michael drops back and tries to intercept a pass.
No! Michael holds a blocker off him with one arm and looks skyward as a flock of birds flies overhead.
No! No! No!
Most kids from bad situations can't wait to be violent and that comes out on the field. But this kid, he doesn't seem to wanna hit anyone.
 He's Ferdinand the Bull.
What?
Nothing.
I thought for sure he was gonna be a player. I can't believe I used up my chits to get him in school.
I thought you said it was your Christian duty? He gives her a smirk.
And he won't in the fall if he doesn't improve a lot before then.
This is your summer workout sheet. First it says to warm up and get loose.  Well, go ahead, get loose. Michael moves his arms around a bit then stops.
You loose?
Let's go home, play some video games.
Iono..
What about Dad and Mom?  'Cause you see, in our family, everyone's an athlete. Dad was a basketball star, Collins plays volleyball and runs track. Me, as you know, I do it all and Mom,... well, Mom was a cheerleader, which doesn't exactly count but don't tell her I said that.
Okay... Michael moves to the line. Si raises his whistle and blows.
Mrs. Tuohy? Michael stands nearby.
I hear "Mrs. Tuohy" I look over my shoulder for my mother--in-law. Call me Leigh Anne or Mama or almost anything else.
Will you help get me something?
What?
Driver's license.
Why do you need a driver's license when you don't have a car?
You have a car.
That I use to haul y'all all over creation with. He doesn't say anything but doesn't leave either. Leigh Anne puts down the swatches, turns to him..
Why do you want a license, Michael?
Something to carry. With my name on it. She locks eyes with him. This time he holds her gaze.
Address?...
Is this his address as well?
Yes. He lives with us.
Are y'all his foster parents?
No.
His legal guardians?
oh... no. The Employee does a search on the computer. As she types...
Does he have a Social Security card? Leigh Anne looks to Michael, who shakes his head.
Birth certificate?
We tried to find one for school, but...
You don't know which city, which county, which hospital?...
How big a problem is this? DMV Employee looks to Leigh Anne.
There's nobody named Michael Oher in the system. Another last name perhaps? Leigh Anne again turns to Michael, who shrugs.
Look, I'll sign something saying he lives with us and we'll pay for the insurance; whatever it takes.  What's it gonna take? Off the Employee's look --
You wanna do what?!
Don't pretend you didn't hear me.
Shouldn't we at least talk about it?
What do you think we're doing? And don't act like I'm going behind your back. I know you put us down as his medical contact at school.
There's a big difference between paying for a broken arm and being legally responsible for someone. Someone we barely know.
And that's another thing. We have to find out more about his past.
He won't talk about it. He's like an onion; you have to peel it a layer at a time.
Not if you use a knife. What if we sent him to a child psychologist?
Do you really expect Big Mike --
-- expect Michael to lie down and talk about his childhood like he's Woody Allen or something? Michael's gift is his ability to forget. He's mad at no one and doesn't really care what happened in the past. This puts her on her heels.
You're right.
(like he's never heard
Excuse me? "You're right?"  How'd those words taste coming out of your mouth?
Like vinegar. She moves to him, holds him.
At least promise me you'll think about it.
Alright.
"Alright" you'll think about it or "alright" we should do it?
Is there a difference?
She hangs up and, exasperated by the wait, rises and walks a counter, pushing past someone --
I'm not cutting, just asking.
Well I'd have it in shape in two days, I can tell you that.
I'm sure you would. How can I help you? She turns to the man waiting behind her.
He was first.
Me, too.
Ma'am, you can tell me what you want or I'll make sure you wait all day. How. Can. I. Help. You?
I'd like to become a legal guardian.
Lord look over that child.
There's very little on Michael. Most of his files have been lost.
What is in there?
A few case notes.  This one describes an incident where officers forcibly removed Michael and six half-siblings from Denise Oher's care when Michael was seven. Quite a scene evidently. They had to split up the kids. And it's far from the worst.
Where is she? His mother?
Dunno, but if you find her we have a bunch more files we could add to.
How many children does she have?
At least a dozen, probably more. With her drug arrest record my guess would be she can't even remember. Leigh Anne absorbs this.
We'd need her permission though, .right?
No. Michael is a ward of the state. Just apply and get a Judge to sign off on it.
So you would give him away without even telling his mother? Ronald shrugs.
Who you lookin' for?! Startled, Leigh Anne turns and sees Alton approaching...
I'm looking for Denise Oher.
Dee Dee don't stay there no more.
Do you know where she might be?
Chances are she ain't gone far.
No, I can't, but thank you.
Hi. Mrs. Oher?
You from the state?
No. My. name is Leigh Anne Tuohy and your son Michael lives with me. And my family. Denise takes this in.
How is my boy, how's Big Mike?
Awhile back. This is temporary. Friends let me stay here.
When did you last see Michael?
Iono. We might have some wine in the kitchen, if...
No, no that's very kind but...
How many foster kids you got living with you?
Oh, I'm not a foster parent to Michael. We were just helping him out.
State don't pay you nothing?
No.
And he lives with you?  And you feed him?.
When I can find them in his size.
You a fine Christian lady.
I try to be.
This is all real nice what you're doing, but don't be surprised if one day you wake up and he gone.
What do you mean?
He's a "runner". That's what the state called him after they took him from me.  Every foster home they sent him to, he'd slip out the window at night and come looking for me. No matter where I was that boy would come find me, take care of me.
Mrs. Oher, was Michael born under a different name? Denise tries to remember. After a few seconds...
Proctor. That was his Daddy's last name.
Where is he, the father, if you don't mind me asking?
Ain't. seen him since he left.
And when was that?
Week after Mike was born.
Do you have Michael's birth certificate? Denise sighs, looks around at the mess, shakes her head. And then, unexpectedly, starts to cry softly.
It's okay, Mrs. Oher.. I'll figure it out. Leigh Anne walks over, kneels and takes Denise's hands.
You'll always be Michael's Mama. Would you like to see him?
No... Not this way.
People lose birth certificates. It's nothing to be ashamed of.
It's Williams.  His last name's Williams. Couldn't even remember who the boy's father is. Leigh Anne bites her lip'and puts her arms around Denise, who hugs back.
Michael, we have something to ask you.
What?
Leigh. Anne and I would like to become your legal guardians.
What's that mean?
Well, what it means is, we want to know if you'd like to be a part of this family? Michael looks to a grinning SJ, to Collins who nods and smiles, then to Leigh Anne...
I kinda thought I already was.
Leigh Anne feels a wave of emotion, nods to him, then races away to go and gather herself.
Michael looks to Sean for an explanation. Sean shrugs can't explain her to you."
Is that the one you wanted? He just stands there, staring. Sean hands him the keys.
Well, hell, take it for a spin.  Go on.
Can I go, too?
okay, but Michael?...  Be careful. Michael smiles and he and SJ get inside the truck.
He wanted a truck?!
Michael thinks he's a redneck.
Tenth grade tough?
Naw.  This really yours?
Yeah.
They just give it to ya'?
Yeah. After a beat...
You're right. white people are crazy. And they walk off together to class.
You are now seniors. Congratulations. But with that distinction comes responsibility. This will be one of your tougher courses because my job is to prepare you, at least most of you, for the rigors of college Freshman English. You are each holding a class study guide which details assignments. I won't remind you what is due and when. Read the materials and come prepared. At the end of the year you will each choose one of our literature assignments and present a written dissection of the piece. The faces in the classroom tell us this is a tough course.
See, you're the ketchup, here at Left Tackle. On the weakside.
I'm not that weak, SJ.
it just means there are more blockers on the other side. It's a compliment, really.
A compliment for a condiment.
Open lane to the end zone. All there is to it. Si slides Cinnamon forward. The bottle flies off the end of the table and crashes on the ground just as -- Leigh Anne walks down the stairs, purse in hand --
What is going on here?!
Cinnamon just scored.
We're going through the playbook. Michael got moved to offense..
Well, when you're finished, put the players back in the spice cabinet.
No problem. Actually, Mom, we were waiting for you. The new Madden came out and me and Michael want to go get it.
Honey, I've got a meeting in ten minutes.
I'll drive. off her look --
Look for Walker Street. That's where we take a left. Si finds a hip-hop station and they both groove to the beat, dancing in the seats.
That's what I'm talkin' 'bout! As the beat reaches a crescendo -- Michael instinctively throws a big arm in front of SJ as --
This is not a twenty thousand dollar Oushak, Jerry. The borders are different widths, it's been altered. Leigh Anne's phone rings. As she answers
We'll give you nine tops.
Michael! He looks up, sobbing.
I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry!
Where's SJ?!
Mom, do you think the blood will come out of my shirt?
An airbag deploys at 200 miles per hour. Your son's too small to sit in the front seat.
He's okay, though, right?
Busted lip, some facial bruising.
Leigh Anne nods thanks and looks to Michael, still on the curb, eyes on the ground. She walks over, kneels down.
Michael, it wasn't your fault. It could have happened to anybody.. He doesn't look up. She almost gasps when she notices -- HIS ARM - red, bleeding, a large burn from the wrist all the way up to the sleeve, which is also singed.
Michael, your arm... what happened? He looks up and into her eyes...
I stopped it.
0her! You've got a hundred pounds on Collis and you can't keep him out of our backfield?!
What's. with the camera?
Michael does better when he can see what he's supposed to be doing.
Holding - left tackle! He gets right in Michael's face, grabs his jersey.
You can only grab in here -- at the tits, you got it?! You grab out here or here, we're gonna get flagged and I'm gonna get pissed. Leigh Anne grimaces, shakes her head.
At the snap of the ball Michael tries to pass protect, pushes the Defender who tries left, right, then slides past Michael and sacks the quarterback.
Move your feet, son! Keep 'em moving! Back to the huddle! Cotton addresses an ASSISTANT COACH...
Well at least he'll look good coming off the bus. The other team will be terrified 'til they realize he's a marshmallow.
As they chuckle, Leigh Anne strides past, onto the field.
Gimme a minute, Bert.
We're in the middle of practice, Leigh Anne!
You can thank me later. Bert just watches as Leigh Anne walks straight to the huddle and pulls Michael aside. The other players turn to watch.
Do you remember just after we met, and we went to that horrible part of town to buy you those dreadful clothes?
Yes ma'am.
If anyone tried to get to me you would have stopped them, right?
I stopped it. Leigh Anne points to the offense.
This team is your family. And you have to protect them --  --from those guys. She walks over and grabs the QB, pulls him out.
Tony is your quarterback. You protect his blindside.
When you look at him, think of me. How you have my back. How you have his. She grabs BOBBY, a short stump of a running back.
oomaloompah here is your tailback. When you look at him think of SJ and how you'd never let anything or anyone hurt him. Do you understand me?
What about Mr. Tuohy and Collins?
I suppose they can be on the team, too. Are you going to protect the family, Michael?
Yelling at him won't help. He doesn't trust men. In his experience they pretend to care about you 'til they disappear. Cotton chuckles.. She walks over and sits next to SJ, who has the video camera in his lap.
You're gonna wanna get this.
What'd you say to him?
You should get to know your
So much for home field advantage.
You ever seen so many rednecks in one place?
Nascar, not even close.
On the schedule it says this is a home game but don't be deceived, gentlemen. Three fourths of the people in the stands are here from Milford. They'll be loud and rowdy and a lot of 'em drunk. Keep your helmets on 'til you're on the sidelines. I don't want anyone getting beaned with a whiskey bottle.
For we can...  Do all things... Through Jesus Christ... Who strengthens us... Each and every day...
Oh, one more thing. The reason Milford traveled all that way to come here is they expect to whup your ass. Whup your ass and have a party in your house. Whup your ass, have a party in your house and piss on your mama's new couch. Is that gonna happen? The team erupts with a chorus of NO'.s and HELL NO!s.
Would y'all look at the size of that buck!
Pay 'em back on the field. Coach Cotton raises a hand and the team moves forward to squeeze through an entrance onto the field. Above them Milford fans look down and jeer, toss sodas at them.
Damn, that ain't fair! They got a big ole' black bear playing for 'em! What is this, a circus?!
There's the Lions and here come the Christians! SJ turns and gives a dirty look --
SJ, eyes forward! Sticks and stones...
Let's go 0! The offense runs onto the field and huddles. The Milford defense waits, slapping each other and building to a frenzy. Number 66 from before is the defensive end on Michael's side. Wingate breaks huddle and #66 sees him.
Look whose fat black ass I get to kick all night long. At the snap #66 sidesteps Michael and sacks the QB.
 All night long, fat ass. All night long.
Come on, Michael!
Fourth down ! The crusaders offense leaves the field. #66 follows behind Michael, taunting him.
And don't come back unless you want me to embarrass your black ass!
Get back to your own bench, 66! 66 laughs and struts away. Cotton goes straight to the ref.
Did you hear what he said? Are you gonna just let that kinda talk go?!
Ever heard of the First amendment, Coach? Get back to the sideline. Cotton takes a deep breath, then turns to Michael, who has been beside him the whole time.
Look, son, 66 is quick, so just focus on his belt buckle.
Where it goes he goes. And block 'til the whistle blows. All right? Michael nods and takes a seat on the bench. Cotton hears something and realizes it is his cell phone. He looks at the number calling. and answers...
Hello?...
Enough with the trick plays, Bert. Just run the dang ball.
Bert, on the field, turns to the stands, shakes his head hangs up angrily. Behind the Tuohys, the Milford fans are in a frenzy.
That's my boy Jimmy, number 66. He is kicking that blue gum's ass! Leigh Anne can't restrain herself. She rises, turns
Hey crotch mouth! Yeah, you! Zip it or I'll come zip it for ya! Sean pulls her back down to her seat.
Sticks and stones?
It's all right. Settle down.
Big black pile of nigger crap! Cotton is nearby, hears this, races straight over to the Ref.
Ref, you gonna do something about this?! He kicked my boy in the head and cussed him! The Ref throws a flag.
Thank you!
Unsportsmanlike conduct on Wingate! Fifteen yards. Shut up or you'll get another fifteen.
What happened to the first Amendment?! Cotton throws his hat and another ref throws a flag.
This young man plays for my team and I will defend him like he's my own son! Against you or any other redneck sonofabitch! Michael watches, dumbfounded. He walks over to the livid Cotton and pulls him backwards, looks him in the eye.
Don't worry, Coach. I got your back. Cotton cools down. Michael trots out onto the field. Halfway there he stops, looks back at Cotton and smiles.
Second and 38.
Try Gap.
Coach called a pass.
Gap.
Your coach always do your fightin' for you? He your Massa?- Michael gets in his stance and on the snap of the ball powers forward. We've never seen him so quick, neither has 66 who dips a hip to keep from being plowed over. The ploy rights 66 but the damage isn't over as Michael now has him "in the fit" grabbing his jersey, "between the tits." -- Bobby races through the hole and into the secondary -- Michael keeps pushing 66 back, picking up speed until 66 is airborne save every third step of Michael's when he touches a toe to the ground like a ballerina -- Bobby cuts to the sideline -- Michael is running full speed with 66 now and he keeps going past the sideline-- Past Collins and the rest of the cheerleaders while -- Bobby makes the opposite corner and heads for the end zone ---
Way to go big bro! A referee signals touchdown then notices Michael walking back and 66 lying slumped at the fence. The Ref throws a flag.
Now what?! Was he holding?
Uh, no.
Did he hit after the whistle?
I don't believe so.
Then what's the flag for?
I dunno... . Excessive blocking.
You're kidding me. The Referee ignores and returns to the field to assess the penalty. 66, now on his feet, limps back onto the field. Michael looks at him and 66's eyes go straight to the dirt. Cotton walks up to Michael.
Sorry, Coach. I stopped when I heard the whistle.
Where were you taking him, Mike?
To the bus. It was time for him to go home. Cotton smiles proudly and slaps Michael on the ass.
Attaboy, Michael Oher. Attaboy!
See number seventy-four? Well, that's MY son.! The Milford fans don't know what to make of this. Leigh Anne sits down with a self-satisfied smile.
Tom Lemming Recruiting, please hold... Tom Lemming Recruiting, please hold... And land on TOM LEMMING, the foremost college talent forecaster in the country.
Coach Saban wants his Fed Exed.
Does he really think getting it one day early is gonna give LSU a leg up? An ASSISTANT hurries up.
Have you filled all the slots for the Army All Star Game?
Yeah, why? The assistant hands over the distinctive DVD marked MICHAEL
You might want to open one up.
Every year there are a dozen running backs in the high school ranks who will make it to the NFL. Quarterbacks maybe three or four. But left tackles, true left tackles, they're freaks, gifts from the gods. A great one only comes around every four or five years. Mike's the best I've seen in ten.
You're kidding?
I don't kid about guys who'll get fifty million or more to play football.
And you think that could be Michael?
Oh, yeah. The embarrassing thing is it's my business to know every prospect in the nation but if you hadn't sent me that DVD I would have never heard of him.
What DVD? I didn't send a DVD.
You're Sean Tuohy, right? Sean "gets it", trades a look with Cotton.
Si.
Wow. Just wow. Lemming breaks out a measuring tape and smiles.
Tom Lemming runs the biggest recruiting service in the nation. He practically created an industry. Every college coach subscribes to his newsletter. One word from him and... This is big, Sean.
Mike, I came all the way from Chicago just to see for myself. And now that I have, I'd like to extend to you an invitation to play in the Army High School All American game at the end of the season. He places an application on the desk. Michael stares at it.
I don't want to offend but... does Mike have special needs?
Well, he eats a lot.
No, I meant, is he mentally... off?
No, no, he's just...
Shy. Really shy.
Because the only thing he said to me was "No." Said it three times; every time I asked him if he'd like to play in the Army All Star game. I get lobbied by every player, every father, every coach to get into this game.  Let me know if he changes his mind. Lemming walks away. After he's gone, Michael emerges.
Why didn't you fill out the application, Michael?
I don't wanna join the Army. Sean and Coach Cotton crack up.
NICK SABAN watches on a computer --
I want him! I want him bad.
Kick higher, Collins. Point your toes! Leigh Anne notices Fulmer.
What in the world?...  Y'all keep practicing.
Drove all the way from Knoxville to come see for myself. Leigh Anne slides in near the group so she can eavesdro
Coach Fulmer, it's a real honor.
Coach Cotton I been keeping an eye on your program. Y'all doing a fine job down here. Wouldn't be a bit surprised to see you coaching at the next level real soon. Cotton's smile tells us he'd like that a lot.
Is that him? Is that O'Hair?
It's Oher. Like a paddle in a boat. Fulmer notices Leigh Anne, grunts then turns back to Cotton.
If you could run him through a few drills, we'd sure appreciate it.. .Cotton gives Leigh Anne a look that says, "get out of here." She shakes her head -- "I'm not going anywhere." Cotton blows his whistle and the team approaches.
 Force equals mass times acceleration. Then, all at once, the coaches pull out their cell phones and start poking digits and jabbering: "You won't believe it!" "You gotta see this!" "He's a freak of nature!" The Clemson coach strides away.
Where are you going, Coach?
Back to South Carolina. I've seen more than enough. If he can qualify with his grades you tell Michael Oher that Clemson wants him.
Good luck with that, Brad! Fulmer smiles wide then turns to look once more at Michael.
Did you know that to be eligible for a Division One scholarship Michael's gonna need a 2.5 GPA?
Really?
His ACT is low and I don't see him doing any better if he retakes it.
What's his GPA now?
Not bad really, when you consider where he started.
He needs to make A's this year.  I'm serious. And that might not even be enough.
So he goes to Junior College.
Most inner city kids that go to JC drop out in a year. His shot at the pros would go out the window.
Pros? Are we even sure he's gonna get college offers? She walks over to the answering machine, presses "Play."
Phil Fulmer, from Tennessee?
There are twenty more. She holds up a stack of mail - envelopes and Fed Exes.
And these. Fifty of 'em.
Any from Ole Miss?
They won't recruit until they hire a new coach. But none of it matters unless he makes his grades.
So, what do we do?
So here's the plan. E-mail me all assignments and let me know what Michael has to do to make an "A". There is laughter in the room.
Okay, fine, a B plus. And if anyone knows of a good tutor I'd love to hear about 'em.
I think I know someone.
I understand that you applied for a teaching position at Wingate?
I wasn't religious enough for 'em. I'm a spiritual person, Mrs. Tuohy, but I have certain,. shall we say... doubts.
I appreciate your honesty, Miss Sue.
What's the situation with Michael?
He needs to do better in school.
Obviously. But why the big push?
He's in line for a football scholarship if he gets his grades up.
Is he considering Ole Miss?
He'd better be.
I'd love to work with him.
When do you want to start?
Mrs. Tuohy there's something you should know about me. I don't tell many people, but it's something I feel you should be aware of before you hire me.
What's that?
I'm a Democrat.
I don't understand it.
Yet. You don't understand it yet. How big is your head, Michael?
Big.
And what's in there?
A brain.
A brain. Full of knowledge - like a file cabinet with maps; shortcuts for figuring things out. You will learn this, Michael Oher because I'm here to help you use those maps and reach your destination. Like Sacagawea helped Lewis and Clark.
Sacagawea?
We'll get to that. And the history books have it wrong, but all you need to you know is that I'll get you there. Do you believe me? Do you trust me, Michael?
Yes, Miss Sue.
Try it again. He goes back to the book.
Who'd a thought we'd have a black son before we knew a Democrat.
And you must be Leigh Anne.
Yes, Coach Saban, that's me. Leigh Anne. Touhy.
Please, call me Nick. What an incredible home. Love the Windsor valances.
Let's just say I appreciate quality. Michael and SJ walk in.
Nick, why don't you and Michael go into the living room to talk.
Can SJ come?
Absolutely. I'll recruit the both of you. As they walk away, Collins approaches...
I find him extremely handsome.
So, as soon as possible we'd like to get you down to Baton Rouge. We've got a great thing going, Michael and we plan on winning a bunch more National Championships. Whattaya' say, will you commit to a visit? Michael turns to SJ, who raises his hand.
Can I ask a question?
Sure.
My brother and me are very close. I'm worried that if he goes off to school I won't see him so...
Go on.
I guess I was just wondering how much access I'd have to him. Saban smiles at the kid's moxie.
Tell you what, SJ. Michael comes to LSU I'll get you an all-access pass. How's that sound?
Sounds good.
You know this stuff. Just be logical.
Hi, I'm Houston Nutt from Arkansas.
This is a beautiful home, Ma'am. He is startled to see -- Michael, in briefs, racing down the stairs, carrying Collins, who is holding his pants away from him.
What level of access can I expect?
Your own locker right next to Michael's.
 A Gamecock headdress. Real feathers.
We'll run arm in arm onto the field and you can do the coin toss thingie at the first game.
Sounds real good.
Have you decided yet, Michael?
No, Miss Sue.
But you like Tennessee?  It's a good school. Not at the academic level of Ole Miss but they do have an outstanding science department. You know one of the things they're famous for?  They work with the FBI to study the effects of the soil on decomposing body parts. Michael is a bit lost.
When they find a body the police want to know how long they've been dead. The fine department at Tennessee helps them. They have lots of body parts - arms, legs, hands - from hospitals and medical schools. Do you know where they store them?  Right underneath the football field. Michael's eyes widen a bit.
So, while it's fine and dandy to have 100,000 fans cheering for you, the bodies you should be worried about are right underneath the turf. Set to poke up through the ground and grab you. She raises a clawed hand  to make her point. Michael is completely freaked out by this.
But it's your decision where you play football. Don't let me influence you.
Congrats on gettin' hired, Coach.
Thank yew, Ma'am. Ole Miss is my dream job.
Coach 0, you're coming a little late to the party but we're diehard Rebels so I'm gonna give you a frickin' road map, okay?
Yes 'm.
LSU is out. Everybody knows Saban's going to the NFL. So when he comes for his visit to Ole Miss, don't take him to some titty bar and give him tequila shots. He'll have nightmares for weeks. Feed him Italian - he likes Fettucine Alfredo - take him to a movie - but not Chainsaw massacre because he'll just cover his eyes - and put him to bed by ten. You got it?
Yes'm. What about Tennessee?
It breaks my heart but they're still in the hunt. Fulmer offered SJ a sweet deal.
I hear the kid can really pepper the gumbo.
He's his daddy's boy.
You a Ole Miss tackle, son. I'm buildin' my line, buildin' my team aroun' you. Make your parents proud, come to Oxford, get that sheepskin and help us win the SEC. Michael nods, turns to SJ. Before SJ can raise his hand --
And for you, Si, here's what I can do. At Ole Miss we have The Grove by the stadium. And the team walks it before the game, surrounded by thousands of fans. It's a sacred ritual. And I'm in front.
 Seen it a thousand times.
Ever seen it from the front of the line? Next year, you and me -- leading the team.
Tennessee offered to let me run on the field and flip the coin.
I'll throw in a sideline pass. Si considers this, smiles and nods.
This stinks to high heaven.
I will not give a student a grade he, or she, doesn't deserve.
He needs a B. What's he gonna have to do to "deserve" that?
Right now Michael's doing C minus, D plus work. His best chance at improving is with the written essay at the end of the year. It counts for a third of his grade.
That's it. We're sunk.
Why not write about "Great Expectations"? You're a lot like Pip. He was poor, an orphan and someone sort of found him. You should be able to relate to that. Michael shrugs. Sean is nearby, watching NBA basketball.
Fine, let's go through the reading list. But you have to pick one, Michael.  "Pygmalion"... "A Tale of Two Cities"... "The Charge of the Light Brigade"...
 "Half a league, half a league, half a league onward." I love that one.
Fine, you do this and I'll watch basketball. Miss Sue walks over, takes the remote from Sean, who rises.
"All in the valley of Death rode the six hundred". They call LSU's stadium Death Valley because of this story. Alfred, Lord Tennyson is writing about Ole Miss-LSU.
You're kidding?
No. It's a great story.
It's a poem.
"Forward the Light Brigade!" That's like the offense. "Charge for the guns'he said." That's the end zone. "Into the Valley of Death rode the six hundred." He knows it by heart and even miss Sue is impressed.
"Forward the Light Brigade! Was there a man dsmay'd? Not tho' the soldier knew someone had blundered."
Someone made a mistake?
Yeah, their leader, their coach.
Why would they go ahead if they knew he messed up?
"Theirs not to make reply, theirs not to reason why, theirs but to do and die: Into the Valley of Death rode the six hundred."
They all gonna die, aren't they?
Yeah.
That's really, really sad.
I think you just found something to write about. Michael opens his notebook, picks up a pen.
Courage is a hard thing to figure. You can have courage based on a dumb idea or a mistake, but you're not supposed to question adults, or your coach, or your teacher because they make the rules. Maybe they know best but maybe they don't.
It all depends on who you are, where you come from. Didn't at least one of the six hundred guys think about giving up and joining with the other side? I mean, Valley of Death, that's pretty salty stuff.
That's why courage is tricky. Should you always do what others tell you to do? Sometimes you might not even know why you're doing something. I mean, any fool can have courage.
But honor, that's the real reason you either do something or you don't. It's who you are and maybe who you want to be. If you die trying for something important then you have both honor and courage and that's pretty good.
I think that's what the writer was saying. That you should try for courage and hope for honor. And maybe even pray that the people telling you what. to do have some, too. Bob, visibly moved, sets down the essay and smiles.
 Michael's final GPA. Got it off Paul's computer. He did it, Sean. He did it!
Wait a minute. You broke into the principal's computer?
Michael Jerome Oher. Even though no one is supposed to clap, a spontaneous round of APPLAUSE gives Michael pause as he accepts his diploma.
Where'd you find a baby picture of Michael?
Scanned it off an Internet ad for a toddler boutique.  Tell a soul and I'll rip your tongue out. IN THE CROWD: The Tuohys, Big Tony, Miss Sue, Bob and the other teachers all clap.
I want you to know something. You'n me, okay?
Excuse me young man, but I think I need a proper hug. He smiles and moves to her. Off their embrace
You'll be living in Deaton Hall -- here. You'll have a meal plan and you'll go to Johnson commons to eat.
As much as you want?
Yep, that's how Mama put on her freshman ten. Leigh Anne rolls up a pamphlet and whacks him hard on her way to answer a RINGING PHONE.
Hello... This is Mrs. Tuohy... As she listens she gives Sean a look - "This isn't good". Leigh Anne walks with Michael.
They just want to ask you a few questions. You've got nothing to hide, Michael. They arrive at a door, open it.
Mrs. Tuohy? Mr. Oher? My name is Jocelyn Granger and I'm the Assistant Director of Enforcement for the NCAA.
Please call me Leigh Anne. Leigh Anne shakes her hand and she and Michael move to the chairs.
Mrs. Tuohy, I'd prefer to speak with Michael alone.
How long will this take?
Awhile. Michael starts rubbing his knees, nervous as hell.
Michael, I'll be outside. Leigh Anne pecks his cheek and exits, giving Michael one last look before she leaves.
I've got a bad feeling about this, Sean. This broad is tough. Oh,. Susie's on the other line.
Your parents are friends with Coach Bert Cotton, correct?
Coach is a good guy.
Were you aware that Coach Cotton is accepting a job at Ole Miss?  And that this job offer came after you signed with them?  Sean Tuohy, your legal guardian went to Ole Miss.
He played basketball.
And Mrs. Tuohy attended Ole Miss as well.
She was a cheerleader.
Is it safe to say that Ole Miss is their favorite school?
They can't stand Tennessee.
So they wouldn't be happy if you chose to play football there?
No.
And your tutor...
Miss Sue.
Miss Sue is an Ole Miss grad, too.
What's that mean?
A booster is someone with an abnormal interest in a school's sports. Someone who-contributes financially to the University's athletic program. Michael doesn't answer, just keeps rubbing his knees. Then comes the part we've heard before...'
Mr. Oher, do you know why I'm here?
Do you know, do you understand why I'm here?
To... investigate.
Yes. To investigate. I'm here to investigate your odd... predicament. Do you find it odd? Your predicament?
Iono... she sifts through her briefcase, pulls out files, documents - a good bit of evidence for whatever trouble Michael is in. She sits back, stares at Michael, as if trying to figure him out. Michael can't meet her gaze. He looks out the window, rubs his knees some more.
Can I... can I leave now?
What do you want, ma'am?
What I want, what my job is, is to discern whether something untoward occurred in your recruitment to Ole Miss.
Unto...
I want the facts. I need the truth.
I didn't lie...
And I want to know what you think about all this.
The NCAA fears that with your recruitment a door might be opened that boosters from lots of schools in the south will become legal guardians for young athletes without means and funnel them to their Alma Maters. Michael still doesn't get it, shakes his head.
I'm not saying I believe it and I'm not saying I don't, but there are many people involved with this case who would argue that the Tuohys took you in, fed you, clothed you, paid for your private education --
 No...no...no...
-- bought you a car and paid for a tutor all as part of a plan to insure that you played football for the University of Mississippi. Now Michael understands. He stares at the floor for a long time then quickly stands and makes for the door.
Michael, we're not finished. But he's gone.
Michael, what's wrong? He looks at her, glares really; upset.
Why'd you do it?
What?
All along you wanted me to go to Ole Miss.
Well, of course, but...
Why did you do this for me?!
What?
Everything! Was it for you or was it for me? Was it so I would go to school where you wanted?! Was it so I would do what you wanted?!
No, Michael...
 That's what she thinks! Is she right?!  Don't you dare lie to me! Leigh Anne digests this, takes a breath...
Michael, look... I can see where, where some people might... Her inability, for the first time, to articulate, hits Michael in the face.
I'm not stupid! He turns and walks away.
Michael?! But she doesn't move, just watches him go.
 Well if he comes by there let me know. Thanks.
Text him SJ.
Keep it light. Tell him you're gonna take his truck for a spin if he doesn't get in touch. SJ starts texting. Leigh Anne and Sean stare at each other.
I should have followed him.
You had no way of knowing he'd disappear.
Was he right?  What he said about us?
Leigh Anne, be sensible. We gave clothes to a boy who had one pair of shorts. We gave him a bed. To hell with the NCAA, I'd do it again tomorrow.
What about the rest of it - all the stuff we did to make sure he got a scholarship? A scholarship to Ole Miss.
He could go wherever he wanted, he knew that.
Did he? Did you ask him? 'Cause I know for sure I never did. Sean considers this, then beckons.
Come here, honey. She moves to him. He puts his arm around her, kisses her forehead.
Am I a good person?  Not a joke. Not rhetorical.
You're the best person I know. Everything you do, you do for others.
Why is that?
 I have not a clue. You obviously get some sick satisfaction from it. She looks at him. There's truth in his words.
Sean... what if he never comes back?
That you Big Mike? Get your ass in here.
I'm looking for Moms.
Your Mama? Oh, I seen Dee Dee around. She usually stop by for a taste around this time. Tell you what, I'll get you a forty and we'll chop it up 'til she get here. Michael hesitates. Alton smiles, beckons.
It's good to see you, Big Mike. You lookin' fit. I heard you playin' some ball.
Yeah.
But you know that rich kid football ain't like the public school league. People packing knives in their socks. Back in the day I was a quarterback. You knew that, right? At MLK.
Yeah, I heard.
Naw.
He with me now! I'll open a spot for you, too.
Got tired of going to class. Always somebody tellin' me what to do.
Turn it up, bitch! David jumps up and cranks the volume on a RAP SONG until the beat is bouncing off the walls. Michael sips the beer; rubs his knees.
You stayin' to the other side of town, that's what Dee Dee said. Said you got a new Mama. She fine, too. I seen her when she come to see Dee Dee.
She came here?
She got any other kids? She got a daughter?
Where you going? Sit down. I wanna hear about your fine white sister. 'Cause I like me some mommy/daughter.
Shut up. Alton steps in front of Michael, raises his hands ---
Shutup?You tellin' me to shut up?I'llcap your fat ass. Cap yourass,drive east and pay a visittoyour Cracker Mama and her
Michael shoves him hard. Alton unprepared for the force, flies back against the wall. On the ground he reaches in his belt for his gun, but just as he gets it out -- Michael slaps it away. He picks up Alton and throws him across the room. The party comes unhinged as Michael grabs Alton, holds him against the wall with one hand while pounding him with the other. Blood flies from Alton's face - eighteen years of subdued rage coming out in seconds. TWO OTHER GUYS grab Michael from behind and one --
He gone. Leigh Anne stops, looks to Alton.
But you tell him I'll be seeing him around. You tell him he'll get his.
Michael was here?
Last night. Sneaked me then took off like a little bitch. So you tell him, sleep with one eye open. Yod'hear me, bitch?' Leigh Anne steps closer to Alton, stares him down.
No, you hear me, bitch. You threaten my son you threaten me. You so much as cross downtown you'll be sorry. I'm in a prayer group with the D.A., I'm a member of the NRA and I am always packing.
What you got in there, a .22? You got yourself a Saturday Night Special?
And it shoots just fine all the other days, too. She turns on her heels and strides to her car.
Michael?!!!
Mama?...
You think the police gonna come and get me?
I'd imagine the last thing anybody at Hurt Village wants is cops snooping around.  I swore I'd never ask but... how'd you make it out of there, Michael?
When I was little and something awful was happening, my Mama would tell me to close my eyes.
She was tryin' to keep me from seeing her do drugs or other bad things. And she'd say, "keep 'em closed till I say so." And then when she was finished or the bad things were over she'd say, "now when I count to three, you open your eyes and the past is gone, the world is a good place, and it's all gonna be okay."
You closed your eyes. He nods. She shakes her head, amazed at the kid. They stare out at the street, then...
You know, when I was driving all over Kingdom Come looking for you I just kept thinking about one thing.
I'm pretty good at it.
Yeah, you are.
Every game?
But I will not wear that gaudy orange of theirs because it's not in my color wheel.
You want me to go to Tennessee?
I want you to go wherever you want. It's your decision, Michael. It's your life.
What if I wanted to flip burgers? She takes this in, swallows hard and
Your decision; your life. Michael smiles.
Okay.
Okay, what?
I'm sorry I left the other day.
You were pretty upset.
You ask a lot of questions.
I'm trying to get to the bottom of this.
But all the questions you asked were about why everybody else wanted me to go to Ole Miss.
Okay...
You asked about everybody but me. You never asked why I wanted to go there.
Alright, fine, Michael... why do you want to go to Ole Miss?
It's where my family goes to school. It's where they've always gone to school. Granger considers this, stares at Michael, then almost, just almost, smiles.
College is going to be a different experience for you. There are lots of distractions.
Just have fun.
There'll always be some nimrod in the dorm who wants to play video games all night, or goof off on the internet.
You're gonna have a great time. I know I did. Leigh Anne gives Sean a look - "You're not helping."
You'll spend lots of time at practice which means you have to be very dedicated to your studies.
Relax, Mama. Miss Sue walks up carrying papers.
Just got back from the library where I reserved a private cubicle for the semester.  Here's your class schedule and our study hall hours. She reaches in her purse for her keys.
Now, if y'all don't mind I'm gonna go move into my new apartment. She walks away.
Thank you, Miss Sue.
Yeah, yeah, yeah... Sean and Michael and SJ eye a GROUP OF ATTRACTIVE COEDS sashaying past. SJ does a little dance move and laughs.
Have a lot of fun. Leigh Anne notices their looks.
Michael Oher, you listen to me. I want you to enjoy yourself but you need to know that if you get a girl pregnant out of wedlock I will climb in the car, drive here to Oxford and cut off your penis.
 She means it.
Yes ma'am. Leigh Anne gives Sean a look that says, "let's get on the road." Sean offers a hand; Michael shakes it. Collins high fives him. SJ offers a fist; Michael knocks it. Leigh Anne, tearing up, nods and gives Michael a quick hug.
Thank you, Mama. Overwhelmed, she turns for the car with a little wave.
The 78'll be a parking lot. We should go. She gets inside and closes the door for privacy. Sean, SJ, Collins and Michael stand there, watching her cry.
Why does she always do that?
She's an onion, Michael. You have to peel her one layer at a time. Michael walks over to the car, knocks on the window. She rolls it down, dabbing tears from her eyes.
What?
I need a proper hug. She gets out of the car and holds him for a long time.
I read a story the other day about a boy from the projects. No daddy, in and out of foster care.
He'd been killed in a gang fight at Hurt Village.
In the last paragraph they talked about his superb athletic skills and how different his life might have been if he hadn't fallen behind and dropped out of school. He was twenty-one years old the day he died. It was his birthday.
That could have been anyone. It could have been my son, Michael.
But it wasn't. And I suppose I have God to thank for that. God and Lawrence Taylor.
As the family drives home from Ole Miss, we notice that Leigh Anne is very still. And very content. She closes her eyes.
One Mississippi...
