 Shit.
C'mon. Hurry up.
Once inside, we follow REBECCA into a bedroom dressing area. She is the 17 yr-old Korean-American ring-leader, who is totally cool and composed.
Let's go shopping!
The kids make their get-away:
 I am a firm believer in Karma, and I think this situation was attracted into my life as a huge learning lesson for me to grow and expand as a spiritual human being. I see myself being like an Angelina Jolie, but even stronger, pushing even harder for the universe and peace and for the health of the planet. I want to lead a huge                             * charity organization. I want to                           * lead a country for all I know.                            *
Girls, time to get up!
Oh my lord, you were so out of control last night.
What about you! You were all over that old guy, the manager...
Oh yeah. He was totally perving out.
Girls! Time for your aderall! Let's go!
Mom, they got home so late last night.
That's none of your concern, I'll handle it.
Girls!
What time did you get home last night?
Uh...late.
You know it's a school night.
We know...
Let's have our morning prayer and then we'll meet in the living room at eight to start today's lesson on the laws of attraction, OK?
My chief aim in life is to continually strive to express my greatest potential as a spiritual human being and contributor to the greater good for our planet and all those who live on it. I know that I have the ability to reach my aim in life, by persistent action and that the thoughts of my mind will reproduce themselves in outward physical reality. I will channel my energy towards my aim in life with graciousness and loving kindness to myself and others.
Wahoo!
Have a great day.
Thanks.
I hope you like it here. It always takes a little time to get settled in.
Yeah. Ok, thanks, Mom.
I can't believe it, someone hacked into my account and changed my password to cheeze it.
Watch it.
Hey, new kid.
You got Shamus for English?
Yeah.
He's the worst. He's a real perv.
Oh ok, I'll watch out, thanks. He laughs, grateful to her for bonding.
Where you headed?
Gym, where's that?
It's down here... Where are you from?
Agoura Hills, but I was away for a year, did home school...
Bummer. How'd you end up in the drop-out school?
I got kicked out of the last school for too many absences. What about you?
For having `substances' you're not suppose to have at school.
See you later.
Hey, you want to come to the beach after school?
Yeah, sure.
I just have to graduate, so I can go to F.I.D.M. - Fashion Institute of Design, the Hills girls all went there.
Cool, and then intern at Teen Vogue?
Totes...and then have my own line, and fragrance, host a show...
Yeah, I'd like to have my own lifestyle brand.
Definitely.
Yo wassup, Chloe.
Yo, Bitch.
You going to Karly's later?
Maybe.
Ok, see you.
Lates.
My mom and her douchey husband are out of town, if you guys want to come over later?
It's Fifty.
Oh c'mon.
You want it or not?
Sucker.
Fuck off.
In the background, the TV is on with random celebrity culture playing
I can't wait to get out of here.
Is your mom away a lot?
Yeah, she goes on trips a lot for work...
For what?
She has a chain of student tutoring centers...
And you're at Indian Hills?
Yeah, I know, exemplary student... That's so cute, I love that dress. I love Chanel.
Yeah, and the shoes are nice...but she needs to get some better extensions...
I know, right? Are those Prada?
No, Dior.
Really?   Hey, what do your parents do?
My mom doesn't work, my dad works for a film distribution company, they do a lot of stuff overseas.. REBECCA Oh cool, he's in the `biz'..
Yeah...it's cool. I get to go to screenings and stuff.
Nice...oh she's so cute.
But enough with the patent leather accessories, they look cheap.
Yeah, totes...
Hey, wanna check some cars?
What's that?
 C'mon...
Sweet. C'mon. They keep walking and she tries another few cars, until she finds another open door. She looks around and finds some cash and a credit card.
No way!
Let's go.
That's crazy.
Yeah, people leave them open with cash and credit cards...
Look, we got like 400 bucks...
Want a ride?
I love that mix you sent me.
Oh, cool, anytime... Where are we going? REBECCA Wherever we want...
Okay.
Do you know anyone that's out of town?
Uh, this kid Evan I met online, their family went to Jamaica, why?
I went into an unlocked house a few weeks ago and found a bunch of cash....where does `Evan' live?
Woodland hills.
 How well do you know `Evan'?
We met up a few times...he was pretty hot.
This it?
Uh huh.
Fuck...I think we should get outta here.
It's fine, it's fine...don't freak out.
What do you think? It's Balenciaga
Uh, Sure.
Oh, yeah.
What is it.
No way!
What the fuck?
Get in.
Where'd you get the keys?
 I grabbed them on the way out.
Hey, call my sister for a bag, will you, she won't sell to me.
How long's Evan in Jamaica?
Chloe, marry me!
Get in line.
Beccaaaaaa! Yo, slut we're going to Les Deux, wanna go? Nicki and Sam are there.
Sure.
Yo, Rob, what's up?
Hey, Chloe - Come on in.
Is Ricky here?
Yeah, he should be around. CUT TO:
Yo, sluts.
Chlooeeee!
`sup...this is my homie, Marc.
Hi, I'm Nicki and this is Sam.
Hey, Marc.
We used to go to school together.
Are they sisters?
They've known each other since they were like three, they took Sam in, I don't know what happened to her mom.
Oh my god, Jude Law totally keeps texting me...I think I'm probably going to go meet him later. CHLOE Yeah, I'm sure you're really going to hesitate on that one.
Bitch, you're just jealous.
Suck my dick.
You did text him like fifty times.
I did not.
C'mon Chloe, where's that bottle service? Let's get that going.
Girls.
Ricky!
Hey, baby, you good? You guys have everything you need?
Uh huh.
Nicki, there are some photographers out here for fashion week you might want to meet.
Fo' sho! RICKY And this dope music manager, and some of the entourage producers- we've got a real party salad tonight.
Ok, let me know if you need anything...
 I'll check with you later, Boo.
Oh my god, that's Paris Hilton.
Yeah, totally, she DJs sometimes...
I literally thought I was going to die.
Homie...
Yo, bitches.
Dawg, wassup?
I thought you might want one.
Oh, you're the best.
I love your shirt.
Thanks.
I loved her, I really did. She was the first person I felt like was my best friend...I loved her almost as a sister, that's what made this situation so hard. CUT TO:
 Misha Barton got a DUI...Paris Hilton is hosting a party Thursday night at the Cosmopolitan in Vegas...
Where does she live, can you find her house?
2342 Briar Summit...
Let's go there! Do you think we could find a way in?
Looks like you could get in going up the hill behind her house.
I bet she'd leave her keys under her mat.
Oh my fucking god.
They're her pet monkeys. Hi guys.
Let's get the fuck out of here.
It's fine, it's fine...let's keep going.
Rebecca picks up some small purses and finds crumpled fifties and hundred dollar bills that she takes.
She's so messy.
C'mon, let's get out of here.
You're tripping out. This is fine, it's ok, why are you tripping out?
C'mon.
Oh my fucking god.
No way, I totally want to go to Paris'!
Yeah, it was sweet, we hung out in her night club room...I got this.
Oh my god, no way.
You are so sick! O.G. Motherfucker!
No way, how'd you get in?
Her key was under the mat, it was so chill, we just walked in.
We can all go back, we just have to check when she's going out to something...
Lindsay got another D.U.I... Here try this vest with that...
What do you think?
Try your hair back.
Yeah, that looks classy.
I don't know if I'd go that far.
Leopard and Zebra - seriously?
What?
Yeah, def, you can't wear zebra and leopard. You have to choose one.
Ok, fine....at least I don't look like I'm thirty-five.
Let's go to Paris', c'mon,
I want to rob...
 I didn't know what they were doing. I thought they were my friends...it all comes back to bad choices, who you have as your friends, and I know the truth will come out.
No way!
No fucking way. CHLOE That's so chill.
Look at all her Louboutins.
Her feet are big.
"Ciao Paris, Keep the glamour alive! Un Bacio, Donatella."
Sweet.
Look at these!
We could sell these.
Let me see!
Oh shit!
What's all over her?
Some bad tanner...
What do you think? It's Herve Leger.
What?!
There's actually an old dog turd in here.
Ew, put that back.
C'mon let's get the fuck out of here.
Alright, alright...in a sec.
Oh wait, you have to see her night club room.
Ciao!
Keep the glamour alive!
Man, I was off the charts, it was craaazzay - they didn't know how I was driving let alone still alive.
That's fucked up.
Yeah, I have to pick up trash for fucking forever...
That sucks...
What are you guys doing later? REBECCA I don't know, there's a party at Madison's...I'll let you know, lates.
C'mon Teacup.
You can't take her dog.
She likes me...and I could probably get like five hundred for her.
Come on Rebecca, leave her dog, it would be too noticeable anyway.
Yeah, I guess... bye Teacup.
Shut the fuck up.
Oh shit.
We were acting insane, but it all felt so glamorous and wonderful.
What are your favorite hot spots in L.A.?
Hot spots? Well, we love Lola's, we go there all the time, it's a Martini bar, and I like the Dime, and we always go to Les Deux, cause all our friends are always there...it's like the spot to go to.
So have you toned down the partying since you have a boyfriend?...
 Uh, well, sure, a little...
Oh my god, I literally love Audrina's style...can you see where she lives? Marc types in her name and a few things, and before you know it he has a photo and map of her house up on the screen.
She's going to Demi & Ashton's Oscar party Sunday.
Perfect.
Nicki and Sam are squealing and trying things on, Marc is styling them, and taking pictures of them posing in their `looks'. Nicki puts on some crazy Louboutins. He tells them how great they look.
Wait. Who are you?
This is my little sister, Emily.
Oh. How old are you?
Thirteen.
C'mon.
Can you fit through there?
I'm staying on look-out.
I like this Rick Owens jacket.
Did you hear that?
It's fine, it's fine.
I think I heard someone.
There's no one outside, calm the fuck down.
I hear helicopters.
We're in L.A., there are always helicopters...don't be such a little bitch.
Ew, what are these oils for?
Gross.
What's Alprazolam?
Xanax.
Oh good...
Jesus Christ, let's hurry the fuck up.
Look what I found!
Let me see that.
Oh shit, be careful with that thing. Is it loaded?
Maybe.
Robert? What's going on?
It's nothing, Mom.
Girls, time for school!
Put the phone away...ok you guys, today's lesson is about character development. In "The Secret" we talk about the law of attraction and we want to be careful about the people we surround ourselves with because we become the average of those people. So we're going to make a visual board of people who are demonstrating good character, like Angelina Jolie. So what are some qualities you admire about her?
Her husband.
Ok. What else?
Her hot bod.
Ok, the bod is not a characteristic.
How long do we have to do this for?
Until we're finished with this and then we're going to do some flower essence work.
Who is it?
Water delivery.
Ok, back to work.
Orlando Bloom's shooting a movie in New York, he's there with Miranda Kerr.
I want to get some Victoria Secret model clothes.
 Let's do it.
You guys.
What the fuck are you doing?
I've got a new room at my Dad's in Vegas, I need some stuff to decorate it, I might stay with him a while...here, hold this.
Are you fucking serious?
If I ever became not your friend anymore, would you rob me?
I would never do that to you.
Lindsay Lohan in a skimpy dress exiting a club.
Who are you wearing?
I'm wearing Armani Privee.
And the jewelry?
My jewelry is by Chopard.
And what about your shoes?
Louboutins.
Well, you look beautiful, are you excited for tonight?
Thank you, yes, I'm so excited to be here.
Marc?
Oh one second, Mom.
It's time for dinner.
Ok, I'll be right there.
Hey, Chloe.
Yo Home Skillet, what's going on?
Did you talk to Ricky about the Rolexes.
Yeah, yeah, he's got connects, bring them by later.
We look to the universe and Divine Spirit to show us the way. I am so grateful for this opportunity to have dinner together as a family. And so it is.
And so it is.
So, how did your audition go?
It was alright.
I think it went really well, they said they want to do a test shoot.
That's good, that's good.
What's it for?
Axe body spray.
Uh huh.
And we have a go-see for the BCBG runway show!
Great! That's a cute top, is that new?
Oh, yeah, our friend Marc, he's a stylist, he let us borrow some stuff for the auditions.
Oh, that's nice.
Yeah, his dad has a production company he helps style for.
Oh, what's it called?
I don't remember.
Something -international?
Mom, can I be excused?
Are you done?
Yeah, and I want to finish my flower essences. LAURIE Ok, sweetie. I'm thinking about doing a silent retreat.
Good luck.
I think that's great, honey.
Uh, Mom, we have to get going, we're meeting this manager tonight who could be really helpful.
Yeah, He knows a lot of photographers...and producers.
OK, OK, that sounds good. Just be back by eleven.
Uh huh.
Yeah, right.
Eleven. It's a week night.
 Eleven my ass.
I know, I'd totally do him....but did you see how small his hands are?
Ew, no.
Yeah, that could be gross.
Yeah.
Dude, we have to get in that video...Does this look good?
Yeah, I mean, do you feel good in that?
I just want to look hot, but not desperate.
Totally. I think you look hot. Let me see a different top...
Does my butt look good in these jeans?
Your butt looks awesome.
Ricky, you remember Marc.
Sure, sure I do. Come on in, Marc. What can I do for you.
Can you sell these?
Where'd you get them?
Uh...I found them.
I see.
What do you think, can you take them?
I don't know...I can see...tell you what, I'll give you five grand for them.
Aren't they worth more?
Not stolen ones.
Ok, yeah. Thanks. RICKY Sure, kid.
When we went out, we got in everywhere and everyone loved us...and we had so many beautiful, gorgeous things.
Bye, Grandma.
Bye now.
Sexy biatch.
J'adore Dior.
How many times have you guys been up here?
I think this is like the 5th time.
And she never noticed?
We never take enough for it to be obvious...and c'mon, it's Paris Hilton.
She's so messy.
I know, right?
Here we go.
Oh, shit.
C'mon, let's get the fuck out of here.
Or you could wear the Chloe sandals with this.
Oh, yeah.
Turn on KTLA.
What?
Now.
No fucking way, no fucking way.
Calm the fuck down, they can't tell who it is.
Oh my god.
Oh, shit. REBECCA It's fine, it's fine, you can't see who it is.
Audrina Patridge posted this on her web site, asking for anyone who has any information about the break-in to contact police at the number below.
Oh my god.
Oh shit.
Is everything alright in there?
Yes, Mr. Hall, sorry if we're making too much noise.
Everything's fine.
OK.
I'll probably go over to Sagebrush later...
Cool, who's playing?
I don't know, I think some local bands...
I want to go to Rachel Bilson's, she's in Paris for fashion week.
Don't you think you should chill out a little bit?
Yeah, that news thing totally freaked me out.
Nothing happened, there's no way you can tell who that is...C'mon, will you find her house for me, please?
I want some Chanel...
I don't know.
C'mon, you're my best friend, please. Let's go get some stuff.
We're going to Rachel Bilson's, wanna come?
Hells yeah, text me where...is she still dating Hayden Christensen?
I don't know.
Marc thinks so.
C'mon.
What if there are cameras?
There aren't, just keep your hat on...and chill out. It's fine.
She has so many Chanel bags.
I love this one!
That's so cute.
What are you doing in there?
When you have to go, you have to go. MARC Are you fucking crazy? How are you so relaxed?
Oh fuck, someone's here.
Don't freak out, let's go you guys.
Hello? Hello?
Oh my fucking god.
That was so close!
Everything's cool, c'mon.
Hi. DOGWALKER Hello.
You guys wait here, I'll get the car.
That was fucked up.
I know!
Look a Mademoiselle bag! How cute is this?!
That's so cute. Did you get me one?
I think the biggest problem was after the Audrina thing-nothing happened-it gave Rebecca that self- boost that, oh, this is okay. I can get away with this. And I think her projecting that onto me made me think that it was going to be okay.
Yo, Becca.
Yo.
I heard you went to Paris Hilton's.
Yeah.
And you took some stuff.
That's so dope. Paris Hilton...
Lates.
Whores!
Chloooee.
Where've you been tonight?
We went to Rachel Bilson's house.
No fucking way!
Yeah. It was chill...
Sick! Some drunk party girl passing by chimes in.
You went to Rachel Bilson's?!
Yeah, she's in Paris at fashion week. We just went in...
Shut the fuck up.
Rebecca's like biggest conquest was Lindsay Lohan. She was her ultimate fashion icon.
I'm staying on look out.
I don't think we should do this. If there are cameras, it's gonna be like Audrina's, it's gonna get out.
C'mon, Lindsay's gone, I wanna do this, this is our opportunity.
Let's just go, no one's here, you're on camera, but it doesn't matter, you'll be fine, Audrina's was fine...C'mon Marc- pretty please...
OK, but this is it.
I don't know, I think we should get out of here.
You're already here. You might as well come up and get something for yourself.
Marc, do you like this dress, would this be good on me?
Yeah, sure.
Oh my god, this is the dress she wore to the Cosmopolitan opening!
Oh my god, that's so cute.
What do you think?
When are you coming back from Vegas?
I don't know, I'm just going to stay with my dad until things calm down with my mom...I need a change for awhile, I'll call you from there. Will you hold on to some of my stuff for me?
Yeah, sure.
Why do you think Rebecca was so obsessed with these women and their clothes - enough to steal?
I just think she wanted to be part of, like, the lifestyle. Like, the lifestyle that everybody kind of wants.
Marc and Rebecca were bragging about it at a party, they said they had been in Rachel Bilson's house and Lindsay Lohan's. They said they went to Paris Hilton's like eight times...
That's Marc Hall, Rebecca Ahn and Chloe, I don't know her last name, and Nicki Moore.
One minute...
L.A.P.D. Open the door.
 You need to get dressed, they want you to come outside.
Mom!
Whatever it is, we'll figure it out, honey.
Are you Marc Hall?
Yes... They handcuff Marc. The dogs bark, Marc's mom cries.
You have the right to remain                            * silent. Anything you say can and                        * will be used against you in a court                     * of law.                                                 *
What's going on here, what's this about?
Sir, I'm going to have to ask you to step aside.
You have the right to speak to an                   * attorney present during any                         * questioning. If you cannot afford a                 * lawyer, one will be provided for                    * you.                                                *
Suspect Marc Hall, was arrested today in conjunction with the Hollywood Hills burglaries that occurred over the past few months. It is believed that the gang referred to as "the Burglar Bunch'...
Open up, L.A.P.D.
Yes?
Is this the residence of Nicolette Moore?
Yes, what is this about?
We have a warrant to search your house. Everyone needs to come outside.
Oh my god, what's going on!
Girls-You need to come downstairs, now.
Ma'am, we need you to secure your animals.
What is it?! Police go into her room to search.
I don't understand?! What's happening?!
We need you all to leave the premises and wait outside.
You have the right to remain silent.
I want a lawyer! Call my lawyer!
Mom!
What's going on?! Why are they taking her?! Sirens scream as they pull away.
Girls, we need to have a prayer circle right now. We need to center ourselves.
I know that right here and now there is one mind, one presence, and I trust and know that this whole experience right now is strictly for the higher good of each and every outcome, I give thanks and this is the Truth.
And so it is.
Hello, how can I help you?
Is this the home of Rebecca Ahn?
I'm her mother, but she's staying with her father in Nevada. POLICE OFFICER Ma'am, we'll need to get her current address.
What the fuck, man...
We knew he was out of town through the internet, you'd google his name and see "Orlando Bloom is shooting a movie, he's with Miranda Kerr in New York." We walked in, it was unlocked, there was no alarm.
The door was unlocked?
Yeah, I've never even broken a window.
How did you find the Rolexes?
We found a safe at the bottom of a closet with the Rolexes and like five thousand dollars...I'll give everything back that I still have, and I'll find a way to repay them, I'm really sorry about what I did.
Did you know Rebecca was leaving the state?
I just thought she was going to stay at her dad's cause she wasn't getting along with her mom and step dad. DETECTIVE You didn't know she was crossing state lines with stolen property, and leaving you holding the bag?
 I thought she was just visiting her dad.
We have a warrant to search the premises. Are you Rebecca Ahn?
Yes.
Do you understand your rights?
Yes.
Do you know why we're at your home serving a search warrant?
Yes.
Why do you think we're here?
My friend Marc was arrested and he                  * called me from jail and told me the police had done a search warrant at his home.
Do you know why?
I've been watching TMZ and they've been saying I'm a `person of interest' in these burglaries.
Were you involved in any of the burglaries to these celebrities?
No, I wasn't.
Is there going to be any property from any of those burglaries in this residence? REBECCA No.
Have you been in any of the celebrity's homes that have been burglarized?
No.
Could any of your fingerprints of DNA be found in any of the victim's homes?
No.
We've located a jacket and jeans that match the description by Lohan, and personal photographs of Paris Hilton.
If I tell you where everything is, would you let me go? Hypothetically let's say I may know where this property is located and who has it, how could that help me? DETECTIVE The detectives on this case are trying to recover hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of property for the victims and I'm sure they would say if your cooperation helped them locate it.
I want to help you out, but I don't want to do anything without talking to my attorney.
Is this your marijuana?
Yes, I have a prescription for it and bought it in California.
You're being arrested for stolen property and L.A.P.D. detectives will be filing charges in their jurisdiction for burglary.
Did you speak to any of the victims?
I've spoken to all of the Victims.
Really?! What did Lindsay say? CUT TO:
Rebecca Ahn, thought to be the ringleader was arrested, and awaits her hearing with the other members. Stay tuned for the latest on the Bling Ring.
Oh my god!
This is crazy.
Does this look conservative, is this good?
If you like a secretary-style hooker.
Shut Up.                                                *
How about this?
That's better...you need lower heels.
Oh, Yeah, where are my kitten heels...bitch, you're so fucking lucky you weren't on that video...
I know, that sucks.
Nicki!
Nicki! Kate from Vanity Fair is here.
What do your parents do?
My mom does a lot of things, she's a minister, she's been a masseuse, she's an energy healer...My dad is a director of photography on T.V. shows, he's been in the industry forever....
And how is Sam related?
We've adopted her, we met in ballet class when we were little.
I was friends with her mother--
Mom, this is my interview. I met her when my parents divorced. Now she lives with us, my mom's home schooled us all for a while.
The philosophy of `The Secret', it's based on the law of attraction, but my great- grandmother and grandmother both studied this philosophy. It's man's relationship to the Divine, that's what energy science means.
Since I was young I learned about every religion. KATE So, Sam was in your ballet class, did she have parents?
She had a dysfunctional background, we both did...
And I met her mom--
Can I talk please?! The reason we related so well is my dad is a recovering alcoholic and Sam's mom is..
A practicing...
A practicing drug addict and alcoholic and our moms became best friends and...
And then she went off the deep end, she was on the verge--
Please! I told you that if you're going to be here you had to be quiet! That's why I didn't want you here because you talk!
So, basically you took her in.
Yes, we took her in about 6 years ago.
But let's get back to Nicki.
So Adam here told me you do charity work.
Yes, we do a lot of stuff through our church, it's Agape Church. LAURIE It's the religious science philosophy being taught at Agape Church.
My other sister, Gabby is on a trip with them now helping build homes. And they do a yearly trip to Africa where they build wells and schools for kids.
Which country?
Uh, I can't remember exactly which country... We do bake sales and feeding the homeless, that kind of stuff.
Ok, so it's a little bit of a disconnect with these positive pursuits and what's happening now.
Nicki, I don't want you to answer that comment.
I think that I'm a firm... I have a good statement to say.
She can speak generally.
I'm not gonna speak about the case, what I was going to say is that I'm a firm believer in karma and I think this situation was attracted into my life as a huge learning lesson for me to grow and expand as a spiritual human being.
I don't think the universe chose a better person than me because from this it's not just affecting me, it's affecting the media and everyone and I think I'm meant to bring truth to all this....I believe that I am an old soul.
Yes, she is.
We have gotten to know Nicki and her family and we feel Nicki is an extremely focused, honest person who has a lot to provide to the community. 
What's your goal or life plan if you have one?
I do, I think my journey is to be a leader and push for peace and for the health of our planet--
Nicki has expressed to me a lot of her humanitarianism.
It's my main goal. God didn't give me these talents and what I look like to sit around and just be a model or famous. I want to do something people notice, that's why I'm studying business, so I can be a leader and take a stand for people.
I met Rebecca in school after I moved back and went to Indian Hills, I went there because I had a lot of absences. I didn't want to go to school, I had a lot of self- loathing and anxiety issues, I felt that I was ugly...
You're not ugly.
I know I'm not ugly, but I never thought I was an A-list looking guy.I Went to Indian Hills to learn and be with my peers, I felt so self-conscious I didn't look as good as everyone else.
And now you're a star.
On my Facebook page recently I had 800 friends requests, I accepted them all, I didn't even look at them, then I noticed someone had created a fan page for me. If it had been for something I had done to help the community or benefit something I'd love it, but it's just kind of awkward for me that these people are loving me for something that's looked down on in society... It's kinda showing that America has some sick fascination with a Bonnie and Clyde kind of thing.
Could these teenagers be at the center of a celebrity crime spree? Police say they have stolen millions in cash, art and jewelry from the mansions of Orlando Bloom, Lindsay Lohan, Paris Hilton and countless other stars.
Can I have a 5 mg adderal.
Just remember what we went over with Shannon, they can't prove you were in any of those houses.
I know, mom.
I know right here and right now there is one mind, one power and one presence.
Mom, shouldn't we go?
Stop!
Stop what?
Stop talking.
She's praying.
I know I'm always protected and karma cleanses my journey. Thank you Lord, so much for this truth. And so it is.
... You rock girl!                                    *
This is a very difficult time for myself and my family. Thank you for respecting my privacy, I look forward to my day in court. She does a flirtatious eye roll and saunters past the cameras in her kitten heels.
Sit up straight, and speak up when you answer questions.
Ok.
What were you thinking? While I was working to support you and your sister. I gave you every thing... You've never done anything right.
Nicolette Moore, you are found guilty on one count                                     * of first degree residential burglary.
Marc Hall, you are found guilty on                      * 4 counts of first degree                                * residential burglary.                                   *
Marc Hall, you are found guilty, with a charge of 6 counts of residential burglary. You are sentenced to 4 years in state prison and restitution of $800,000.
Rebecca Ahn and Marc Hall were both sentenced to 4 years in state prison. Chloe Taynor and Robert Hernandez were each sentenced to a year.
Members of the Bling Ring were                     * sentenced today for their roles in                 * the rash of break-ins that netted                  * more than three million in high-end                * goods. Rebecca Ahn and Marc Hall                   * were both sentenced with four years                * in state prison, Chloe Taynor and                  * Robert Hernandez will face one year                * each, and Nicolette Moore was                      * sentenced to six months in county                  * jail.                                              *
We're here with Nicki Moore, who just served 30 days for her involvement in the Bling Ring, and shared a cell block with one of the victims- Lindsay Lohan. There were reports that Lindsay was crying, with you being next to her, did you actually hear any of this? NICKI I could hear her crying the first day, which is hard when you're trying to be strong, I just tried to really keep to myself..., I just tried to get through the day , the days are so long you're woken up at 5:30.
And how'd she look?
She got to keep her extensions in, most girls were talking about oh- I had to take my weave out...she was in orange like all of us...
Were you nervous you were next to her because you were accused of being a part of that group that allegedly robbed her house.
Yeah, it was hard for me there were tabloids and on T.V.s in there people were watching the story and they were showing the surveillance video and stuff... and little do people know that when that video came out I was actually in contact with her manager to tell her who I believed the people were who robbed her house... and eventually when I'm able to tell my story people will know the truth.
So that's nerve wracking she could think you robbed her house.
She could've, but you know...yeah...Anyway, you can follow everything about me and my journey at Nickimooreforever dot com.
