and up the narrow stairs. His FOOTFALLS ECHO against the unadorned cement block walls. We see his shape, mid- forties, powerful, his shirt pulled out. He's carrying the open bottle by the neck.
Twenty people tonight. I got a South Beach widow, a plastic surgeon -- they actually came together.
There's a basket of baguettes on the counter. Alex breaks off an end and chews it to rid his mouth of the taste of the wine. Still chewing, he walks toward the tasting room.
There I was, passing the wine, passing the bread, I suddenly felt like the priest at Masst Or maybe Mass started out as a wine tasting, and Jesus was a salesman. what do you think? He goes into
 Maybe I should get dressed. Leaning against the corner is a woman wearing only her panties and a shirt. In her mid-twenties she has striking South American looks. GABRIELLA VASQUEZ. She's sipping red wine from a plastic glass.
I don't want to spoil a religious experience.
-- Ever heard of Georges Duboeuf? He throws away some of the glasses.
Duboeuf has a nose and a palate -- like a gift from God. He can taste a single grape before the harvest... and describe the beaujolais it's going to produce. She laughs.
Oh, you have competition.
Okay. Show me.
Victoria's Secret 95. She passes her glass under his nose.
Gabriella, I picked these wines.
So what is it?
All I can smell is your perfume. She laughs.
I'm not wearing any.
I even bought it for you. She opens her shirt. She's not wearing a bra. She lowers her breast to the glass and then to his mouth.
Tell me now. He kisses her wet breast.
Don't think you have to say it because .1 say it, Alex.
It means something to me.
Oh, yeah... We're pretty good. He kisses her goodbye, unlocks the door. She goes out to her Honda Civic. Alex doesn't wait to see her drive off before he heads back to finish cleaning up the tasting room.
His red Cadillac convertible is idling nose.to the chain locked across the parking lot. A MAN in his twenties, whose tropical shirt fairly glows under the security lights, is using a pair of bolt cutters on the chain.
You scared me, man. A middle-aged man, a REPO MAN, calls out lazily from behind the wheel.
This is not your car, sir. This car belongs to the Star Leasing Company. Alex buries the gun in the rear of his waistband as though he's rubbing his stiff back and cranks his smile to a higher wattage than the security lights.
I can collect either the money or the car. Given how much you owe, I figure it's the car. The younger man has almost hacked through the chain.
Pop the. trunk.
We inventory the property at the yard. He keeps his eye on the chain, ready to gun the engine as soon as the exit is clear.
I just want to show you something. Worked by the combination of natural curiosity and Alex's charm; the repo man pops the trunk and gets out of the still-running car.
In his hand he has the locking "Club" Alex usually uses to secure his. steering wheel. He's not stupid. Amused, Alex takes a step back, palms up.
What are you doing? The repo man ignores him and looks in the trunk.
Do you drink?
Not on the job. What is this, booze?
Two cases of single malt whiskey aged in the barrel before he was born.
The Caddy's overdue.
So are you. Drink it with the kid. Teach him what smooth is. Enjoy yourselves. Isn't that worth a few days' breather...
We're clear.
It's late, Jason.
I'm going out tonight. Alex exhales.
You can't'fish all night and work all day.
Working for you doesn't exactly tax my mind.
No wonder you drop bottles.
Fire me.
Do you do it on purpose?
Fishing bought me my bike.
I almost knocked it over trying to get out of the car.
The TOASTER OVEN DINGS. Jason takes out a muffin, it in two with his fishing knife.
Use a regular knife.
This has a better edge. Feel it (pointing it at Alex,
-- feel it. Their voices are rising.
Pointed, it's a fucking weapon. Put it away.
Hell with you. Jason exits to the stairs.
And keep your voice down. Your mother's asleep.
If you got home on time once in a while, maybe she could skip the chemical help. Alex is also on the stairs.
You have no idea, none, zip, what goes on in a marriage.
Yeah, well, I'm learning more than I want to.
Now what are you arguing about?
is a pretty young woman in her late thirties with a sense of humor and irony. She's chemically relaxed, but not stupefied. She pulls a robe around herself, modest in front of her son; and although her body's not spectacular, like Gabriella's, she has a trim. athletic build.
It's not an argument.
I asked him to clean up downstairs.
A modicum of cooperation, you know?
A modicum. What's that. Modicum my ass. He pushes past his mother toward his own room. Suzanne follows him down the hallway, leaving. Alex behind.
I don't like that tone from: you.
Then go to bed.
Hey!
It's too late for this.
Jason has gone into his room. He slams the door.
enters his bedroom. Suzanne, alone for a-moment, to enter Jason's room.
He's my husband.
-- I still love him.
Whatever. She walks out.
-- maybe I'd better lie down. He bends down to kiss her, then heads for the television. Suzanne props herself up on her elbows. He pops a cassette into the VCR: porno, she assumes. She does her best.
I liked the twin nurses. There was kind of a story. Alex brings the remote control back to bed.
You'll like this one better.
He hangs his towel on a doorknob, slides into bed, starts the tape, which begins with sweat-slick dancing girls at Carnival. To Suzanne's astonishment, it turns out to be a travelog.
Rio?
I've been so busy. We could sneak away for a week.. Would you like that?
If we really go. Last time I packed, we went nowhere.
 The beaches -- I thought we had a beach. I read how the hotels keep spotters on the roof with scopes, to keep thieves away from the guests. They can look at every inch of your body through the scope.  Do you mind that I like that? Alex? He has fallen asleep. Tenderly she draws the sheet to his shoulder and settles down to watch the rest of the tape.
:. Bite...
Nothing happens. He doesn't move. Then the top of one of the rods shivers slightly, goes still. Jason delicately fingers the rod like a blind man reading Braille, to feel for vibration. A smile pulls at his mouth. He steps behind the rod. The fish hits.
Time to go to work, man! C'mon. A tall, black drifter appears from-below, still yawning, scratching. HENRY, 33. He wears a red Panama hat that's weathered his head for some time.
Who we got?
Let's find out. He hauls back on the rod, the line rises from the ocean, they both recognize the fish at the end.
Fucking sharks. Miami's fished out of the good stuff. Damn. He spits over the side. Jason grins.
This one's got more to worry about than you do. He starts to reel in the fish. Henry moves to the wheel.-
Just shoot 'Jaws' in the water. I want to know the sucker's good and dead 'fore he sets a fin in my boat. You got a barb on that hook? .
Oh, yeah. Jason braces for the fight.
The Gulf, man, that's the place. And what makes you think fifty-fifty is right? My boat. My gas.
My skill.  ... My fins.
You cool?
I'm cool.
We cool. Jason guns his Ducati.
Rob, has Jason shown up? A man's French-accented VOICE answers him from the store.
Not yet.
You have his paycheck there?
All ready.
Alex takes it, and rips it up.
You no like my company? Fine. Who cares. Bring me more fin, you retire. You no want to retire? Good. Don't charge starving Chinese so much for these things.
You ever caught a shark?
Lemme -- lemme show you something. Jason pulls up the sleeve of his denim jacket to display a fresh gash across his arm.
He was already gaffed onto the side of the boat, good as dead. Two hours dead! And I was still too close to the mouth. Revenge is the last instinct to go, did you know that? The chef shrugs and shows his thumb, missing a joint.
-- Work's a dangerous thing. (smiling with lots of
Nice fin, Jason. He tosses the fins in a cauldron of boiling water, slaps the CASH REGISTER on the side. It RINGS.
Jason weaves through traffic, expert enough to take chances that goose the adrenalin.
Just get in the car.
You stink.
I washed.
There's Wash IN Dries in the glove compartment. Jason opens the compartment, finds the packets, opens one, rubs his hands.
... I'm trying here, Jason -- I really am. When you didn't want to go to college, I took your side, I said fine -- I mean, I -didn't finish college, and I've done all right. I gave you a job', a steady check, which is more than anybody else has done. And what do I get back? Shit. I've tried to teach you the business -- the care, the finesse... Jason laughs dismissively.
Well, look at it this way, Jason, someday you'll have your boat and I'll have my vineyard, and the best part '11 be they're nowhere near each other.
Save the stamp. They turn into the driveway to an expensive development.
Hi, mike -- what's the score?
Dolphins down by nine, minute forty to go. It's over.
Don't underestimate Marino. Mike ticks off the appointment, raises the gate.
I told you, they don't have it this year. With a wave of acknowledgment for Mike, Alex.. drives onto the grounds.
on the intercom) Who is it?
Wine delivery. The INTERCOM CLICKS off. They hear FOOTSTEPS approaching. The door opens. Jason's eyes focus. He's hooked. Gabriella is smiling at Alex. She has her arms full of clean burp cloths.
Oh, the boss himself!
 How are you? She glances politely toward Jason, not at all expecting what she sees. A circuit connects between them.
Gabriella takes care of Baby Reese.
Hi.
Is the wine for the boat? Come through the house.
he lawn which leads to a dock.
-- what's the point of having it, if I can't wear it, Frank?
Alex, should we insure the wine while we're at it? His arms tired,'Alex is happy to set down the case.
Aren't you covered on your home policy?
How much wine are we talking about? Jason follows Gabriella down below, the VOICES on the deck fading.
Why bother insuring it? Let's drink it instead.
Big boat. Gabriella laughs and looks over her shoulder at him. They're both kids.
ugly, isn't it. He grins and relaxes, looks around.
The fittings are definitely -- yeah on the ugly side. But damn, she's solid.
Oh, a boat type.
 I like.boats. Gabriella shows him the climatized, built-in wine closet next to the galley. He starts to rack the bottles while she watches. He talks to stop her from leaving.
So where you headed?
I'm not going, 'I can't go.
They don't want to take the baby.
Idon't have a green card, I can't leave the country. Baby goes with an American nurse. I house-sit. It's fine.
You don't like them. Gabriella laughs.
God. I'm obvious. I just don't like working for people, but that's life. He chafes under authority the same way she does.
Doesn't have to be.
Maybe not with a rich stepfather. He laughs.
Worst kind.
Where's that?
Venezuela. Do I look it?
I don't know, I never been there.
Well, I don't. My mother's Indian. The India kind of Indian.
You don't seem too nuts. She laughs.
You don't know mel
-- so back to the safe it goes -- Dina lifts up the baby and smells its bottom.
Dina, that's disgusting.
The alternative is using your fingers, Frank. which offends you more? Alex laughs. Frank pushes back his chair.
Don't encourage her, Alex. Her mouth is big enough. Dina is hurt.
 I'll show you that painting in our stateroom. The agent follows him away.
 Do you want to see the label? She hides her hurt by not looking at him.
Just open the bottle, Alex. Pour us both a glass. I'm not allowed to drink alone. When she turns her head and looks at him, she's flirting.
-- when you're skimming along the water, nothing between you and the bottom of the sea but a layer of wood, your thoughts... end. All that noise inside your head? Gabriella nods, understanding exactly.
. . . Stops. Dina's VOICE booms over the INTERCOM, startling both of them. The BABY is FUSSING. Gabriella makes a gesture of apology to Jason.
Gabriella? Are you down there?
Yes, Mrs. Reese.
The baby needs you. And bring a pacifier for Frank.
Right there. She slides off the stool.
You should come out with me sometime. She smiles without answering and goes topside. His eyes follow her. A Deckhand comes down the ladder with the remaining case of wine for him to stock.
He.'s ready for his nap.
Frank and the agent return from another section of the boat.
You doing up to the house, Gabriella?  Want to take this with you? He sweeps the policies into a large manila envelope, drops the 'pouch in with them, ties the string, hands it to her.
Put it on my desk. He looks at his wife with her glass, Alex with his glass, and doesn't like it. His voice hardens slightly.
Are we all set, Alex?
I'm going to check the storage room, see what else'll travel. I know I put some vintage Armagnac in there, maybe some Porto? He heads down the gangplank.
He's a vendor, Dina. It's like drinking with the help.
-- You still here? Dina laughs, too.
Look how beautiful you are. He's an idiot if he didn't. Now she sees the necklace.
What are you doing? She snatches the necklace away from him and fairly runs down the hall to Frank's study.
You're going to get me fired and deported.
Just put it on for a minute. Look at yourself. She slaps at his hands half-heartedly, but it's so tempting.
See what you deserve.
Alex moves her hair away. She lets him hook the necklace around her neck. He reaches over to open the closet door, fitted out now as a file cabinet, but with the original closet mirror still in place. The safe is visible. Gabriella stares at her reflection, Alex behind her, watching her. The necklace changes her posture. She angles her chin slightly, twists back her hair. Diamonds suit her.
into her ear) Not against your skin. He starts to pleat her T-shirt loose from her jeans. She doesn't resist. They watch each other in the mirror.
-- Alex? They're waiting for you! Alex blows out a frustrated breath.
Ah... shit... He hurriedly unhooks the necklace and puts it back in the pouch, gathers up the insurance papers and Polaroids that had spilled and slides them back in the envelope with the pouch.' Gabriella is tucking in her T-shirt. She closes the closet door. Jason's VOICE is closer, more impatient, at the bottom of the stairs.
Alex!
I was in the bathroom. He walks down the stairs. A wooden case of liquor is by the terrace doors, where he left it.
Give me a hand, will you? I'm not as young as you are.
He goes out the door ahead of Jason, leaving him to carry the case. Jason hears a DOOR CLOSE upstairs as he lifts the case. He looks up.
Reflected in the tall entry mirror, Gabriella's back as she walks away down the hall.
His face tightens. He follows Alex.
I'm out, I'm home.
There's an optimist in every game.
(overriding htm,
No, I'm saying... the guy who sits down at the table with a loser's attitude... loses even if he wins -- which he won't. He's got no juice flowin'.
He's got peepee in his veins! Life for that guy's a habit and stained pants. You know what I mean? Dave laughs, feeling better.
Try.
Good night. They all AD-LIB "Good night," "See you next week," etc., as they file out. Alex and Victor are the last in the room. Alex puts on his jacket.
Paltry pickings tonight. Alex looks at the small amount of cash on the table.
You want to cut for what's here. Victor chuckles..
Sure. Why not. He pushes his cash forward into a pot with Alex's. Alex fans the deck across the table.
This, more or less. He pulls a card -- he has good hands -- and turns it up. A king of spades. A smile tugs at his mouth.
Beat that. Alex produces the Polaroid of Dina's necklace from his inside jacket pocket.
He flicks it on the table next to Victor's king. Victor's gaze clicks from the photo to Alex, back to the photo. He slowly reaches out and picks it up.
Very pretty. I remember when it was the cover of the auction catalogue. The Duchess of Windsor's baubles. Bought for a young wife, I remember. Who I'm sure worked just as hard as the Duchess.
it's appraised at a million three hundred thousand dollars. a laugh. Victor tosses the photo back on the table with
And they say there's no inflation.
I have access. Victor shakes his head no.
I'm retired.
And broke.
I don't need that much.
Bullshit. You need as much as I do. Victor's eyes blink behind his glasses.
What kind of access? For curiosity's sake.
I have a friend in the house.
A girlfriend. How sweet.
Ican distract her.
I don't trust women, as a svecies. I'd;have a spotless record if it weren't for a woman.
She'd never know, I don't want her to know... I like her too much.
I don't trust amateurs, either.. He gets up and walks to the door.
Don't take it personally,. Alex. I don't trust the phone company,, the jury system, or the Israeli government. So why should I trust you.
Because I know a good thing when I see it. Alex flips over a card. It's the king of clubs.
Victor... Victor has been distracted by Alex's proposition. Now he comes back to scoop up his money. Alex sweeps the cards back into a stack, leaving only the photo on the table.
... But this is fifty-fifty..
I saw the light still on. I'm glad you're up.
 What'd you do this time? He's too pumped to take offense.
C'mon, c'mon, be nice.
Whenever you open champagne -- it's such a giveaway. He pours her a glass.
I told you I was playing poker tonight. He hands her the glass. She takes a sip.
You know, I've-never actually seen you play poker -- maybe poker doesn't even exist. Maybe it's just a cover story men use. He laughs.
I won.
Hey; lightning strikes. He fills his glass.
Let's not get into this, honey. Her voice is tired.
I was charging the groceries today, and they kept the card. We'd been cancelled.
I know -- He reaches for his wallet.
I felt about as big as an ant. Alex takes out a credit card.
I got you a new one.
He holds out the card, which she slowly takes fingers.
It's the third time this year.
Everything's about to change. Suzanne has heard that too often from him.
Alex, what are we doing together? We don't talk --
all the time!
-- we don't fuck -- we don't even eat dinner together anymoret
I am making an effort heret
Did you never have a fight with his father?
 No.
-- A saint. I should've guessed. Must be at the right amid of God this very minute. Suzanne doesn't bother replying. She turns off the light, pulls the sheet to her shoulders. Alex sits down on the window seat to enjoy the champagne in the dark.
-- the humidifier wasn't holding a steady percentage, there may be a problem with the regulator -- so I'd better check it right away.
You want to hand me down a good cognac? I'm going out to the Reeses.
No, gimme the Pierre Ferrand. Jason starts down the ladder.
I'll deliver it for you.
Alex is surprised and pleased by Jason's sudden helpfulness.
He wants to talk. He dusts off the bottle.
-- enough of an investment in there --
-- not to want to take a chance, with a month away. That's what I thought.
Second honeymoon.
The first one was bad enough. She's standing too close to him, but he has no room to maneuver away. He fiddles with the box.
-- It may need a part replaced.
Nice suit. You always dress well, Alex. She brushes the lint off his jacket and leaves her hand there.
Mrs. Reese? The baby's ready for
A long moment later, the door opens. Dina and Alex are reassembled, but there's a tension and a breathlessness about them Gabriella recognizes.
-- Thank you, Gabriella. Dina spies some interaction between Gabriella and Alex, and her pretty face hardens.
Did you leave him by himself?
Just to get his sheets.
That's the maid's job.
He's in his playpen. Dina sweeps out.
Baby jail. She looks over her shoulder to make sure Gabriella is behind her.
Are you coming?
Have a good cruise. I'll take care of this.
You're not very happy here, are you.
I think I look younger, don't you?
You look ridiculous.
Fine. I don't have an ego. (zipping up his
-- As long as I don't match my mug shots. A shadow of anxiety passes over Alex's face.
You want to change your mind?
No. Victor opens the front door.-
After you. As Alex walks toward the door, he catches sight of a free- standing hospital respirator in the bedroom. He looks at Victor, who waits for him with an unchanging smile. They go out together.
-- Is your makeup melting? Offended, Victor reaches over to honk the horn. Alex stops him, opens the driver's door.
Brilliant, Alex. We've violated the law before we even get started.
Tell me we're at the wrong house. Alex raises a hand to wave, Victor turns.
Mike, the guard, is rolling toward them on a security cart. He pulls over.
Don't flip the gate like that.
I was helping you out. I checked off the appointment, didn't you see it? He rings the doorbell again.
They sailed out this morning.
I know., but the nanny's supposed to be here -- Victor rolls his eyes, unseen. The nanny.
-- The Venezuelan? They fired her.  Don't pay to be too good-looking in these jobs. Victor interrupts the gossip. He -sounds exactly like a repairman.
I got a schedule to keep, Mr_ Gates. Is this gonna be another day?
It can't wait.
Harold Freeman. Mike notes the name "Harold" stitched onto his coveralls.
Okay. Stay here. I'll get the keys. He rides away on his cart. Victor sits down in the shade to wait. He stifles a cough.
Dear God. A cop on the job.
You all right?
 Why wouldn't I be?
She turns her head, and he sees that she has been crying. His smile goes.
You looking for Alex? You missed him.
I told her. The PHONE RINGS. Robert answers it; wine business. He's out of the conversation.
I was supposed to let him into the Reeses'.
So now you're in trouble.
No, I'm not. She's walking toward the door.
Then why've you-been crying?
I just got fired, all right? She goes out.
Congratulations.
You don't know anything!
You hated it there!
GABRIELLA Now I have to go stay at my cousin's place -- my cousin, her husband, their four kids, and two cats. I hate cats.
What's wrong with cats?
They shed on the couch I'll have to sleep on. You know how long it took me to find that job? Everybody thinks they're running for office. You don't have papers, they don't even want to meet you. And the only real way to get legal is to get married. Do you understand? He opens her car door for her.
So let's go get married. Gabriella looks at him. They connect.again; it scares her.
... Are you old enough to vote? She slides behind the wheel.
 Aren't you working?
It's my lunch break..
Well, let's not tell the boss I stole you.
Did you do something? Or was it just...
Like they're a factory?
The size of their staff? It is.
Hang a left.
Not for the wharf.
I know. Just turn! She whips the car through the turn, narrowly missing another car.
-- Cool. She laughs; she's starting to relax.
Can you fix the thing, Harold? Or does it have to be replaced?
I'll tell you after I see the condition of the pipes. Coolant might be leaking. Where's the attic access?
-- Either of, you know how to kill the water to the house?
Oh, yeah, yeah, sure. Mike starts down the stairs. Alex signals to Victor that he's going with him and follows Mike away. Victor waits until he hears the DOOR CLOSE before dropping down through the hatch and heading for Frank's office.
I been waiting for you. My shift. His uniform is crisp, and his nature is alert and suspicious.
The valve's stuck.
That's the sprinkler valve. Mike climbs out of the bushes with injured dignity.
Okay, you do it.
Down there, wasn't it? The guard doesn't let him change direction.
Keep going.
Nobody's supposed to be in the house unaccompanied.
Is that our fault?
All right, then. The guard glances up at the hatch. In that moment victor winks at Alex; he scored.
You can learn on the fish around here, but you can't eat 'em. They're junk fish.
Will you teach me? He laughs.
Oh, you think you're ready for that kind of commitment?
I'm only investing an afternoon. She takes in the landscape, breathing in the lovely isolation.
Where are we?
My father used to bring me here. She hears something in his tone.
He's dead. He drowned in a storm. She shivers involuntarily.
He was a fisherman.
I don't know if I would like boats after that. He smiles.
I feel close to him when I'm on the water.
How old were you?
-- Eight. I'd just turned eight. She takes his hand. He tightens his fingers through hers and looks out at the horizon, trying to control the emotions her sympathy has roiled. Gabriella senses this. She puts her arms around him, kisses him on the cheek. They stand, holding each other. Then Jason, on impulse, kisses her on the lips.
What the fuck are you doing??
I always take a photograph of the goods. To avoid any disagreement in the sale. The insurance photo is hopeless. You ask yourself how do they stay in business. Alex advances on him.
You put me in the shot.
Give me the film, Victor._ victor's hand glides into the drawer. Alex sensibly stops short.
, We'll tear it up together whet. we have the money. Honor among thieves is a myth, you know. victor's hand reappears, holding not a gun but an airline ticket, which he gives to Alex.
What's this supposed to be?
I thought it over. I can't move it. I'm on parole. I'm known. You're not. So you'll fly to Newark, take a shuttle into the city, catch a cab, take a walk, find an address, I'll give you the name -- pas.de probleme, as they say in Bordeaux. He's being condescending.'
Meaning you're too chickenshit to do it yourself.
Maybe I am. All right, I am.
Fuck... He looks at the ticket.
I don't fly economy.
You can do anything you want out here -- you can swim nude, you can Her laugh cuts him off.
I am not taking my clothes off.
 That's not what I meant.
He reels the line out of the water. Gabriella climbs the rail. She's barefoot. The breeze blows her thin dress against her legs.
She dives into the water. He kicks off his shoes, dives in after her.
When they are together, they thetboat,ela ughing i ng her nkl t arm under her breasts, pull i o together.
Hey, quit laughin'. I'm saving your life here.
... May I speak with Gabriella? Puedo hablar con Gabriella?  No, yo no quiero dejar un mesajo, gracias. Voy a llamarla mas tarde. ...Si. Buenas tardes. He hangs up and speed-dials a number from the typed list on the wall.
... Hey, Ted -- it's Alex Gates. I need a couple of tickets to New York for tonight, first class.  Don't sweat the account, I'll pay
You waited long enough to tell me. Gabriella arranges her clothes.
No, you're not. She scrambles to her feet.
I want to go back now. Can we go back, please?
... Sure. He stands up and moves to the helm, his legs stiff with injured dignity. Gabriella sits down on the bench, the cushion clutched in front of her. Jason sneaks a look back at her. With her hair wet and her makeup washed away, she looks younger than he does. She's resting her chin on the edge of the cushion. He switches on the engine and eases the boat forward over the anchor, engages the power winch. The CHAIN starts to
I'm sorry. She turns her head toward him.
What?
Me, too.
Skyscrapers swagger down either side of the river, their windows bright squares against the darkening sky. The signal BELL SOUNDS.
I got your note. Fuck the Reeses. We're taking a trip, honey. Pack a bag. I'll pick you up in an hour.
Where are we going?
Does it matter?
Ohio.
Sure.
Don't worry, it's not Ohio. She laughs.
Napa. I got a problem with a supplier. Boutique wineries -- they're all owned by ex-lawyers.
Via New York? She holds up the tickets.
I need to see the wholesaler.
You're amazing, you really are. Now how are you going to explain 'Miss Vasquez?'
Honey, I don't have to. I will, out of courtesy. It's Mrs., and she's fifty years old, Suzanne. She's the agent.
God, I could even believe you, if I wanted to.
I put Terry's life insurance money into that store -- and you spend it on your goddamn girlfriends while my checks bounce. Alex whirls around at the bottom of the stairs.
I worked my ass off for you with that store. Eight years of twelve- hour days and one-day weekends! So don't tell me I haven't treated you well.
-- You're going to talk to me!
When I get back.
With more of your fucking lies! I hate you! Wasting my (slapping at his arm with her free hand) -- life!
Sssh, calm down -- She tries to slap him again, but he gets hold of her hand.
-- Give me my keys, I need my keys. I don't want to hurt you.
That's all you ever do! He twists her hand up behind her back, forcing her onto the sofa.
Go to hell! He smothers her into the cushion and twists her hand up and up. She grips his keys tighter.
(breathless from the
Open your hand, Suzanne. Pinning her down, he painfully pries open her fingers. She drives her elbow into his face.
You sonofabitch! He hits her back, her nose starts to gush, the keys drop to the-floor. He bends to pick them up. Suzanne seizes a standing metal ashtray and savagely swipes him across the temple.
The blow sends him sprawling to the floor; he doesn't move. She is stunned by what she has done. In a panic she races up the stairs, the heel of her hand to her nose to staunch the bleeding.
hasn't moved. Suzanne drops to her knees beside him and squeamishly lifts his wallet out of his pocket, snatches the cash, lets the wallet fall back beside him. Her breathing is so rapid and shallow it sounds like whimpers.
-- Hey, hey.
He sees the blood smeared all over her face, her clothe:,, and charges past her.
I won't wait for you! Jason takes the stairs two at a time.
What the hell happened in there?
Is he dead?
Not enough. What'd you hit him with?
-+ The ashtray.
(a laugh bubbles out of
Jesus, an ashtray.
Pull over, pull over. He wrenches the wheel and steers the car to the curb.
I'm driving.
Did you figure out where we're going?
We'll head for the Gulf, see what we like. He sounds like her contemporary, not her kid.
. I remember your dad saying the sand was as white as the whites of God's eyes, on the Gulf.
Do you still miss him? Slowly she shakes her head no.
I can't see his face anymore. I can't hear his voice.
Mugged-by your wife. How ironic.
I'll fucking kill her.
When do the Reeses come home?
Not for a month. Plenty of time. Victor sighs.
How long a drive is it?
To the Gulf? Three hours. He removes the towel from his head.
You're going to need stitches. Do you have a sewing kit?
I'll stop at my doctor's.
I darned my own socks in prison.
Order something for me, okay? I'm stiff, I need to walk around. He's already walking away. Concern and exasperation cancel each other; she goes inside.
My grandmother asked me to bring in a necklace of hers -- Jason takes the velvet pouch out of his pocket, unlaces it, spreads out the necklace on the counter. He leans forward on his elbows while the jeweler examines it with a loupe. When the jeweler looks up, he's angry.
Your grandmother lets you carry around a million dollars worth of jewelry? Go put it back where you found it. The jeweler pours the necklace back in the pouch, cinches it closed, slaps it on top of the case.
-- Those aren't real diamonds.
Tell your grandmother to bring it in. The jeweler BUZZES the door to release it. Jason grabs the velvet pouch, strides out.
-- pan san, strawberry waffle, eggs over, side of wheat toast, ham steak, hash browns, fruit cup, two O.J.'s,, coffee, milk --
-- Extra syrup? Jason returns.
We'll starve. The waitress laughs as she strolls away.
I'm hungry. He's worried about the jeweler.
Let's pack it up, picnic on the beach someplace.
 What a romantic.
He wants to tell her he took the necklace.
-- I feel... exhilarated.
Adrenalin does that.
-- It ain't adrenalin, it's freedom. And she slips her wedding ring off her finger and hurls it overhand as far as she can. It drops into the sea.
She eats with gusto. Jason is staring at the water.
I can't believe you did that.
You're quiet. She doesn't think he's going to answer her.
I didn't even say goodbye.
It'll work itself out. People manage. We're here. This is what you always wanted.
-- How much money do we have? Suzanne doesn't reply.
There's a cash discount. Ten percent.
Dear Gabriella. I don't know if you'll get this letter. I don't know if I'll send it. All I know is that for some reason I need to write it...
He's my son. The owner gives her a startled glance.
You look great! Suzanne laughs.
That day on the boat made me realize I understand the sea better than I do the world.
Jason? She sits up in bed. Jason comes in from outside.
I'm right here. Suzanne shoves her fingers through her damp hair, swallows to clear her voice.
... I dreamed I was in jail. You'd come to see me, you were on the other side of the plastic -- like at the bank?. And you were talking, but I couldn't hear you. I put my ear to the holes and I couldn't hear you, but your mouth was moving.
And then I realized you couldn't talk anymore. He'd cut your vocal cords, like that dog next door.
What dog? She lies down again.
When you were a kid?
-- I know what lure to use to catch any fish in the water, but what's the lure for a woman? Truth? Lies?
One morning, just as the sky started to lighten --
-- I caught a fish that had three hooks grown through his lips. Three times he'd gotten away. He kept taking the hook.
It occurs to me that you're the fisherman, not me. I can feel the tension of the line. I've taken the hook just like he did.
-- eight-faceted cut... quite unique... could be the whole piece or individual stones, preference for the whole piece. Will you put out the word?...
I've called the whole network of fences from here to Tampa.
Let's hope we'll find her before she sells.
Hey! What's wrong?
This is not a water-view suite in Marbella! Did you notice? There's no fruit and champagne from the management. I don't see Swiss chocolate on the pillows. My masseuse is not at the door. And I am fucking dying, Alex!
I don't intend to cough to death in a county clinic because you screwed up!
I'm not good at giving up things.
I want to take you out with me when the wind's blowing whitecaps and the current's running against the wind, just to hear your hair slap against your skin. When will I see you? He glances up.
her hair a better, brighter color under her chef's hat, is cooking on the grill behind the counter, kidding the customers, enjoying herself. The greasy-aproned OWNER pats her rump as he goes by, not for the first time.
Long arms, short dick, they always say. One of the Fishermen guffaws. The owner looks pissed. So does Jason who witnessed it all.
 Can I see you in the office after lunch, please?
I was not-fired, you jerk. I quit.
 For about a minute it was very satisfying.
(concentrating on the
You did the right thing.
Help you?
Do you buy estate diamonds?
Sure. Jason takes out a zip-lock bag and lays it on the counter, one of the diamonds inside. The jeweler takes it out with respect and holds it under his loupe. If Jason's nervous, it doesn't show.
It belonged to my mother. The jeweler's heard every version. He doesn't care.
.Price is the same. I can give you eighty-five hundred.
 ... Look at you. What's the occasion? Jason squats down beside her and balls up the classifieds.
You don't need another grab-ass job. I been out talking to peoplel
There's charter outfits a coupla towns up the coast. (NAMES OF TOWNS). They need skippers, they need crews. She stands up, brushes off the sand, rolls up her towel.
So we're packing. They start walking together. From the water a MAN calls out to Suzanne.
Hey, I thought you were coming back in. She smiles and waves goodbye.
... Too bad. I kinda liked that
She and Jason keep walking. He no longer looks like a boy.
Seen them, by any chance?
Why are you asking?
My wife and son. He's been selling fish around these parts. He's totally believable. The bartender feels for his pain and takes another look at the photo, shakes his head no.
She's a little classier than our usual clientele, y'know?
Maybe you could pass it down anyway.
The bartender takes the photo.
Sure, man.
joins Alex in the booth. Victor raises his hand. Alex instinctively pulls his head back.
Don't move. He leans across the table and plucks the last stitch out of Alex's wound. Alex winces.
It's been irritating me all day. Did I hurt you? Threat implied. Alex stares him down.
Hey, I know this kid -- Alex and victor glance over to the bar and see Henry. He's looking at the photo Victor passed around.
Hunches a catch like a depth finder. Victor is already out of the booth.
Who are you?
His father.
I thought his father was dead.  Well, you look bad all right, but not dead.
 Oh, man, now I see why he blew town. victor's insulted enough to lose his patience and his poise.
The question before us is where did he go. Henry says nothing. He wants to be paid. Victor whips out a fifty-dollar bill from his top pocket. Henry reaches for it, but victor holds it back, wanting an answer first.
He wouldn't be on the Gulf. He hated the Gulf. Alex has moved up to the bar to listen behind him, unnoticed. He shakes his head at victor.
He's down in the Keys somewhere. Victor puts the fifty back in his own pocket. Henry stands aggressively.
That ain't cool in my book! In a swift, unexpected move, victor jams Henry back down on his bar stool. The bartender starts toward them. Alex slips out the door. The stool and Henry are toppling over. Victor catches them both, sets Henry upright.
Thank you.
I never understand your optimism.
Or he wouldn't have lied.
Hey, mister!
is in the doorway to the bar.
What's it to you if I see the kid? Victor smiles.
 Mom? The cabin is silent. He uses his fishing knife to pop loose a section of the cheap wall paneling. Behind it, a square of sheet rock has been sliced away between the studs to accommodate the pouch. He drops the pouch in his tackle box. A CAR is heard pulling up. Jason frantically starts to jam the paneling back in place. It won't hold.
Nice boat.  Are you allowed just to run around with it? 'His tension ebbs. He picks up his tackle box.
I forgot my tackle box.
-- Don't take advantage, Jason. They trusted you with the job.
He kisses her quickly.
It's not a problem. He escapes out the door.
Hello? She's greedily grateful to hear Alex's voice.
-- Hi! I saw on the news there's rain in San Francisco. Are you wet and miserable?
Napa's farther north. Victor comes out of the bathroom. He's waiting for news.
Tell me you love me.
I love you. Her smile vanishes.
Who just laughed?
She wants to talk to you.
Oh, please. Why?
Just fucking say hello, okay? Victor takes the phone.
Hello, dear. Alex snatches the phone back from him.
Happy? Satisfied? I'm working.
I miss you.
Are there any messages? She carries the phone to the counter where she keeps mail and any messages and starts to leaf through the stack. Her eye falls on a crumpled light blue envelope; she moves it out from the pile. It has been forwarded several times. And it's addressed to her.
It's lonely here. There's no return address. She slits it open with her thumbnail. A trickle of sand falls out.
What about the messages?
I'm looking! Instead, she opens the letter.
Dear Gabriella. I've started this letter a dozen times --
Gabby? She puts down the letter and quickly- finds the message memo.
Here it is. Mr. Raines called from . He said you-Id know what it was about. Do you,- need the number?
Thanks, honey. I'll call-you tomorrow. G'd'night . He hangs up, excited. Victor has already started to pack.
I'll save the party hats until it's in our hands.
I look out at the flat blue sea, and the darker bl ue where the Gulf deepens and I want you next to me. I want to walk across the. sugar sand and wade into the water with you until the current lifts us and floats us, nothing weighting us down -- as'light and thoughtless as fish. Will I ever see you?... Love,: Jason.
She's deeply moved. And it occurs to her that she has picked the wrong man.
Modest, nondescript. Victor parallel parks jewelry store with his usual careful manner.
I miss the Cadillac. Top down. Air on.
You all right?
A lot of these jewelers might know my face. It's risky.
How about for me? Victor takes out the photo of Alex with the necklace and holds it up for him.
Nobody's seen this yet.
You're sick. I'll do it. Alex throws open the door and barrels out of the car.
 Said it was his mother's.
A seventeen-year-old kid waltzes in with a diamond as big as your toenail, and you don't wonder?? You shouldn't have touched iti You know that! All right, okay. When we recover the rest of the necklace, I'll be back. Do not, do not sell it. I'll see what I can do for you, Raines.
i appreciate that.
Smart lady. She lets Jason make the sale. They get caught, he's underage, and she don't know a thing. I gotta give her credit.
You have interesting taste in women. Alex's gaze wanders to the game, but he can't get interested.
Jesus, Henry... What the hell you doing?... How'd you know this was my boat??
I saw you cast off. Good little sport boat you got, too. Oh, whoa -- hear that?
Right here, man. I ain't been eating my share since my fishing partner ran off. Without so much as goodbye/good luck. Jason blows out a breath.
It's complicated.
So why are you on the Gulf?
My baby finally sank on me. Right at the dock. I thought I'd work charter for awhile. (moving to help Jason with the latches) -- Need a crew?
I don't know. Maybe.
That's not why I came looking for you. Jason is checking the engine. Out of Henry's sight, he surreptitiously reaches inside a hidden compartment.
wraps around the concealed pouch and withdraws, reassured.
secures the engine hatch.
A guy offered me fifty bucks to tell him where you were. Sick old motherfucker. Big as God. Tried to say he was your stepfather.
No, no, no, no -- this guy was not any kind of family man, if you know what I mean. So you're in some deep shit, because he wasn't a cop neither.
-- What'd you tell him? Henry chuckles.
Lots of ways to make fifty bucks. Misunderstanding, Jason shoves him up against the counter.
You gonna lean on me, Henry?? Is that the plan? Henry is hurt and offended.
You -- um -- you moving contraband, Jason? Jason shakes his head no.
This guy struck me as a serious problem. A few raindrops spatter the windows. Jason makes for the cabin door.
Take care of the boat?
 Not likely to sink two of 'em.
-- Mom, come on. He catches her hand and tows her toward the back door.
We"gotta go... She anxiously follows him out the door.
leans back to see around the snack rack that blocked our view of him. It's Victor. A paper bag under his arm, he goes out the front door.
reaches his car with a long stride; he can't run.
... I should have gone through his pockets myself. It didn't occur to me. I was in such a panic. If I'd found the necklace, Jason? I'd have taken it, too.
There.
-- I'm sorry. She glances in the rear view mirror. Headlights.
It's okay. I'm the one who hit the bastard.
A small bridge ahead is almost ready to pivot to let a boat pass. She stamps down on the gas pedal. The car rockets forward.
What a thrill.
Jason's white face is turned toward them in Suzanne's car.
Easy, easy -- he'll see us.
It's raining too hard.
Still with us.
Maybe it's just a tourist cruising around with his head up his butt. Neither of them believes that.
... How about Mexico? The Sea of Cortez? Your father fished for marlin there. The biggest catch he ever had. sharp left, She sees a side road coming up. She hangs a skidding into the turn, traction holding.
Relax. She's not going anywhere. He brakes and calmly reverses in the rain.
I just need to talk to her.
Last time you talked, she almost crushed your skull.
Anything?
You sure?
The headlights turn onto the road.
hears his silence and looks back herself just as he looks forward.
Mom! Face the road! You're drifting! She looks back as now bright headlights light them up. A truck HORN BLASTS.
-- Shit! She 'spins the wheel to avoid a head-on, but in so doing she clips the curb and loses control. She throws an arm across Jason to protect him. The car rolls onto its top, scraping across the road.
We don't have much time. Through the window they can see Suzanne and Jason, both unconscious, limbs entangled, covered in glass. Suzanne is hemorrhaging from a gash in her side. Her leg twitches in spasm. Car headlights pass by on the road.
We need to get some help!
Already on the way, I'm afraid.
Alex kicks out what remains of the back side window and slithers into the car. Victor calls in after him.
Open the trunk, please. He walks toward the back.
-- Oh, Christ... He lifts her shirt to see how badly she's cut and presses the heel of his hand against the gash to try to stop the bleeding. Her blood spurts through his fingers. With his other hand he pats down her body.
I think he's okay, Suzanne. Just' tell me where it is. She can't answer. He opens the glove compartment and feels inside. He goes through her purse.
Goddammit! Leaning over the seat, he fumbles with her clothes. He's trying to make her comfortable.
Then he reaches down her bra, into her panties, searching. Her voice is faint.
Don't...
Alex, c'mon, get out of there.
She's dying, for chrissake!
What? -- She mumbles something indecipherable. He puts his ear close to her mouth. The SIRENS are bearing down.
 ... Fuck you.
We're out of time, Ale7. You can stay if you want, but I've left.
Victor grabs his ankles and pulls. Alex starts to reemerge.
... I didn't mean for this to happen.
As soon as they see her license they'll call you in Miami. Alex nods. He can't look away from the scene.
what are you... He swallows painfully. Alex smiles and gets up from the chair. He dreads what he has to tell him.
Hey, there... how do you feel?
Where's my mother?
 I flew straight back from Napa when I heard. You hit your head pretty hard. Jason struggles to sit up, his equilibrium not fully restored.
Where's Mom? -- How's Mom? Alex sits down on the bed with him to break the news.
She didn't make it as far as the hospital. Horror and rage flood Jason's face.
He seizes the empty I.V. stand and hurls it at Alex, who throws up his arm protectively. Jason tackles Alex under his guard, smashing him into the metal dresser. Alex's head snaps backward, cracking the mirror.
-- You killed her, you fuckl Alex tries to hold him, eventually in a forced bear-hug.
-- Don't, don't --
We'll take care of him.
Alex hesitates, then goes out.
Where's my son??
You let an underage boy with a head injury walk out of here by himself??
It was only a concussion. He's fine. He said you were in the lobby. Nothing to be gained, Alex whirls around and strides away.
The lights are off. He closes the door and starts up the stairs.
Wake up, Alex. I want to see your face. The sheets stir. Jason raises his knife to strike. But it isn't Alex in the bed, it's Gabriella. She lets out a strangled scream. He whips the sheet off her with his other hand. She's naked.
Jason!  -- Don't hurt me. Please.
Where is he?
He went to get you! He's not coming back until tomorrow. She timidly pulls the sheet over her body. Jason yanks it off her so hard it flaps loose from the corners. He touches her belly with the length of his knife, the blade flat to her skin. She freezes.
His car's here.
It's been here since he went to Napa.
I keep hearing about Napa. Did you ever call him there? She shakes her head.
You don't know where he was.
She swallows to clear her voice. Her- eyes haven't left the knife.
Why would he lie to me? Ever so lightly Jason's fingertips find her skin.
You didn't waste any time,. did you. You moved right in.
You don't need the knife.. Put. the knife down. She knows men and children well enough to demand, not beg. Jason has almost forgotten he still. has the knife against her. He lifts it and folds it and puts it away.
I'm going to wait for him, and. I'm going to kill him. His hand drifts along her body. She doesn't resist.
They'll lock you up.
Yeah.
'Away from the sky and the air and the sea and the current running against the wind?' That was a very beautiful letter. Jason moves onto the bed, on his knees. beside her.
Did you show it to him? You two have a laugh about it?
I never mentioned itl Jason's hand curves around her throat,. a, caress, a threat.
Did you tell him how to find: us-? Gabriella knocks his hand away from her throat.
Not He wasn't interested, he didn't care.
Sure, he did.
He was glad she left. Jason lies down alongside her.
He had us followed.
W-why? He shrugs; he doesn't trust her.
How do you know? She thinks grief has driven him crazy, and he sees that.
I'm not crazy. Gabriella lays her hand over his on the bed, to comfort him.
... I'm so very sorry about what happened to your mother. His hand skitters away and lights on her ribs.
Her loss, your gain. Furious, Gabriella forgets her caution. She slaps him hard enough to throw his head sideways. Jason rolls on top of her and pins her down.
Her home, her bed -- her life. He lowers his mouth to Gabriella's neck. His kiss is surprisingly gentle. His knee works her legs apart.
. Don't do this for revenge.
Let's finish what we started. Slowly, he kisses her. She lets her mouth respond: a sweet kiss, in spite of the circumstances. His fingers scissor her nipple.
Just don't tell me that you love me. He peels off his T-shirt.
 I love you. He gives her a hard look. She holds his gaze and pushes his jeans down until he finally kicks them off and they're both naked. They begin to make love.
Wait. Jason doesn't understand. She gently pushes him back.
This way. She turns on her stomach and guides him back into her. Jason moves now rapidly.
Slowly. Her hand on his ass guides the pace. She hasn't had a young man in a long time.
Will you get me a towel? With warm water.
He kisses her and gets up. If she didn't love him before, she does now.
 Are you going to kill me, too?
You'll have to. I'll know. I'll be a witness. I'll know you planned it.
-- Would you do that?
I need him, Jason.
I'm not going back to Caracas! You don't know how we live there. She pulls the pillow in front of her to hide her nakedness. He touches her shoulder; she shrugs him away.
What are you talking about? This is my home. I'm home. She stares at him. His face is set. She can't persuade him. Jason thinks of his next step, a plan.
You're never going to marry him, Gabriella.
Watch me. He closes the door with a solid CLICK. She starts to cry, and still crying, she pulls the sheets off the bed, she has to change the sheets.
 Gabby?
Alex sets down his suitcase.
I've been looking for you for two days! Jason relishes this.
You should've called home. Alex advances.
How'd you get here?
Hitchhiked.
(too bright and
Are you-hungry? Have you had lunch? Alex doesn't even hear her.
Why didn't you wait for me? Jason eats without answering.
And what about all your stuff, and your mother's? Jason swallows, wipes his mouth.
She doesn't need it anymore, and I don't want it. Gabriella brings Alex a cup of coffee.
How about a sandwich?
You haven't even said hello to her.
, Hello, Gabby.
What are you doing. Jason gets up from the table. He's wearing workout clothes.
Nothing. He walks out of the condo. Alex and Gabriella are left alone together. She jumps in before he can say anything.
He just lost his mother, Alex. You can't expect him to act normal. He steps up beside her and moves her hair off her shoulders.
 Yes. I gave him sonlething to eat. She walks out and up the stairs to the bedroom.
I wanted her to go away so bad... I used to wish she'd die. And then she did. He lets go of her hand.
Oh,. please. I don't need two children in the house.  -- What happened to your mouth? Gabriella's hand jumps to her lip.
Oh. -I bit my lip. He takes her lip between his and nuzzles it.
You have something that belongs to .me, Jason -- and I want it back.
It's not yours.
Did you know the thing's worth over a million dollars? What a fucking stupid way to spend money.
I was holding it for someone. These are dangerous people.
The bar wobbles with Jason's laugh.. Alex moves behind and spots him, unnecessarily.
Don't screw around with me, Jason. He's in a position to crush Jason's windpipe. Jason shoves the barbell up in his face, finishing the set and re-racking. He reaches for his towel and wipes his face, his expression hidden.
I don't know where it is anymore. You killed the only person who did.
It was an accident! What did I have to do with it? Jason wads up his towel and throws it at Alex.
There was a car following us!
Did you see who was in it? Jason shakes his head no.
I met one of these guys. Tall, weird-looking fucker with.a gray crew-cut.  These people you don't steal from. Whoever was following Suzanne is going to come after you, too. Haven't you figured that out? For the first time Jason wavers.; it's a plausible alternative, but one that makes him guilty instead.
Who are they? Alex fastidiously drops the towel in the hamper.
Doesn't matter. Give the necklace back to me, and we'll split the handling commission. His ingratiating smile offends Jason. He doesn't trust Alex. He shakes his head.
She never told me where she kept it. Alex doesn't believe him either. His hand. rests on a dumbbell, and for a murderous instant he's about to pick it up and use it on Jason. He lifts his hand away.
Nice boy like that, the money means diddlyshit. And, personally, I suspect he'd rather die than tell you. So get a blowtorch, and use it on the girl until he cooperates.
.. Just as an example, Alex.
He's gonna make a move.
When he does, I'll be there.
Okay. He hangs up and rocks back in his chair.
(muffled against her
I'm never leaving you again. He starts to caress her.
-- I'm already asleep, honey.
Can he hear us? Alex's tone turns. Jason is causing him another problem.
I think he's probably figured out why we sleep in the same bed, Gabby.
He misses his mother.
... So do I. Gabriella props herself up on her elbow.
What?
I wish she was alive and happy and someplace else. Gabriella lies down again and makes herself comfortable against him. He tries again to interest her body.
We need to go somewhere, just us.
Where?
I'm buying a vineyard in France. Have you ever been to Paris?
No. Alex scoots down next to her, his hand takes possession of her ass.
We'll stay at the Ritz, we'll eat our way through every three-star restaurant in town -- a new dress every night -- would you like that? Gabriella laughs in wonder and turns onto her side to face him. They fit themselves together like an old married couple.
 -- We'll drive down through Burgundy -- follow the Rhone into Provence, wind up on the Riviera -- Monte Carlo --
-- Princess Stephanie. He gives a rueful laugh; she's younger than he easily remembers.
They have tables at the casino where you play baccarat and the bets start at a hundred bucks.
 You won't be able to afford it. You'll have spent all your money on my clothes and my jewelry. (slipping her leg
Ohl Remember Dina's necklace? Alex's eyes go cold and watchful, although she doesn't notice.
Sure.
I'll wear something like that and then if you lose you can throw it on the table to cover your bet, like James Bond.
James had an expense account. He rolls onto his back, she lays her cheek on his graying chest. He no longer wants to make love.
What made you think of the necklace? She's drifting toward sleep.
I looked good in it, didn't I? He pats her shoulder without answering. He won't sleep for a while.
 -- Come meet me, I gotta talk to you. I'm at the Haitian marketplace. You know where it is?
I can't just -- what am I going to tell him.
An thing you want. Don't drive, take a cab -- (as she laughs at what sounds like silliness) -- I'll wait for you. Jason hangs up. He looks around. He doesn't see Victor watching from the trinket stand. Be walks to the counter where he has already ordered coffee and pie. He picks up his fork. He can't eat. There's a folded newspaper left behind by another customer. He pulls it over.
Refill, hon? He doesn't even hear her.
Gabriella waves to him.
Okay. Here I am. What is it? Do you know how much a cab costs?
I saw a guy following me... I thought you weren't safe. I was going to tell you to go stay at your
She starts to swivel off the stool to leave. He grabs her hand.
I'm so sick of this. You'd say anything! He hands her the newspaper.
Read it.
reads the headline and starts to laugh.
There is such a thing as justicel Dina's necklace. Couldn't happen to a better person.
Alex stole it.
You really hate him.
The reason I know is because I stole it from him. Her eyes widen.
his face concealed among the candles is trying to figure out what drama is going on between Jason and Gabriella. He can read their faces, but not their lips.
... The sonofabitch. That's why he went out with me. He was trying to use me!  They'll think I'm part of it! The maid who got fired??
You weren't a maid.
What difference does it make??
We're going to the Gulf. He throws money down for the check.
Victor's car merges into traffic several cars behind them.
accelerates. Gabriella nuzzles his neck.
looks back.
A man with your breeding usually rings the doorbell.
There was, is, no time.
I know you keep money here somewhere.
Vic, Vic -- The golf club catches him in the midsection. Alex cries out. The blow folds him forward onto his knees.
The. cops are about to drive up your street. He brings the club down on Alex's bare foot.
(through teeth clenched
There's nothing here to.give you.
Where is it? He clips Alex on the other leg as he tries to crawl away. The physical effort shortens Victor's breathing. His cough sprays blood. He tightens his grip on the club.
Believe me -- I swear to God, I
Victor raises the club over Alex's head, and brings it down on the coffee table instead. The glass-explodes. He has to push the words out through acoughing spasm.
I refuse to die in a fucking prison clinic! Alex staggers to his feet. Victor is struggling for breath. Alex jerks the golf club away from him and tosses it on the floor.
He puts his arm around victor's waist and helps him to the sofa.
Come on, this is pitiful. Victor drops onto the sofa. He gags on the blood in his throat and desperately draws in air.
What a mess. He picks up a sofa pillow to arrange it for him. Victor gives him a grateful smile. Alex presses the pillow down over his face before he can react. His feet flail. Alex has to lie on top of him to hold him down. A couple making out on the couch. The GUN THUMPS to the floor. Victor's movements slow, and stop. Alex takes no chances. He keeps the pillow jammed down until there's no possibility of trickery. Satisfied, he rolls Victor's dead body onto the floor, steps over it, and with steady hands he opens a bottle of very expensive wine. He pours a glass.
 I'm with him.
What took you so long.
He has a boat, Alex! It's on the boat. The dumb shit wants to turn it over to the cops. You know what'll happen to me. Alex is taking his passport out of his desk.
Just tell me how to find you. He opens another drawer. There's a gun inside.
presses her cheek against Jason's back.
Henry emerges from the cabin. He eyes Gabriella.
Oh, my.
This is Gabriella. She's my contraband. She looks quickly at Jason, who smiles. Henry reaches out to shake her hand.
Kid's a sucker for dark skin.
Alex's foot swinging. More of him comes INTO SIGHT as Jason climbs to deck. The financial pages open on his lap, he's drinking a Styrofoam cup of coffee and eating a donut; the rest of the bag of donuts is next to him.
Good morning! I brought donuts. Jason is struck silent. He sits down on the side of the boat, his arms around his ribs.
Oh, it's not as bad as all that.
She fucking called you.
Alex shrugs.
She has some residual loyalty, yeah.
Where are we going?
I'm going fishing. Get off if you want.
No, it's a beautiful day for a boat ride. Give us a chance to talk. He makes himself comfortable.
Then make yourself useful and cast off the stern line. Alex moves to the stern while Jason casts off the bow line.
This one?
There's not a lot of choice. Alex casts off. Jason backs the-boat into position. He sees Henry asleep in the doorway of the marine supplies store next to the shuttered bar. Alex rejoins him.
-- If we could manage to ignore the personal history here, I think we could work something out between us. Jason turns the boat toward the open sea.
You want Gabriella? This is the way to have her. Life costs, Jason. Love costs. And you love her more than I do.
(as Jason glances at
So stake yourself to a life together. Give her what she needs --
before Jason does) -- Hi, honey. Gabriella comes up onto deck. She glances bewildered at the ocean around them.
Why are we --
-- Shut up! Just shut up! She sits on the bench, her face tight and angry.
He's feeling like you let him down. .She gives Alex a look that silences him. He reaches for another donut. The SOUNDS of the ENGINE and the HULL hitting the waves substitute for conversation.
-- Okay. I'm ready to listen. He sits down beside a pole and looks over at Gabriella, who has put on a hat. She's staring out to sea.
We're giving you a hard choice, Gabby. Two rich men. Gabriella swivels her head slowly.
I don't want either one of you. A line quivers. Jason reels in a little.
Something's going to bite, just
 -- now. And the bait is taken at the moment he said. The line reels out very, very fast. He lets the fish run with it. Gabriella has turned around to watch. Now Jason reels in a little, making the line taut, testing the weight. He yanks back. The line rises from the ocean, bringing to the surface a big, dark green fish. _
Jesus! What the hell is that?
Hammerhead. Young. Male. Jason plays the shark until it's close to the boat and thrashing for its life. Gabriella's scared.
Help him, Alex.
I'd just get in his way. His hand comes to rest on her shoulder as Jason expertly reels in the bucking hammerhead. She shrugs away from his hand. Jason has hooked a ten-foot, three-finned sea beast with a spade-shaped head and black eyes on each side. He attaches the line to a winch and winds it up onto the deck. It twists wildly, knocking things over until it slows down and finally lies very still. His chest heaving with the effort, Jason looks around. Alex has disappeared without either of them noticing.
No luck? Alex whirls around. His gun materializes in his hand. Jason retreats a step.
Is this your backup plan?
No.
You want it so bad, it's yours. He pulls out the necklace and hurls it away from Alex.
scrambles toward the necklace.
Don't let him have it! He'll kill
Jason grabs her-and holds her with both arms to keep her from going any closer. Alex turns his head, puzzled, warned. Too late. The shark suddenly thrashes, its jaws snapping around him. Gabriella screams with Alex. He FIRES his GUN over and over until it's empty. The shark continues to tear at him.
Help me, help.mel! Gabriella runs down into the cabin. Much as he hates Alex, Jason can't let him die. like this. He charges. forward and straddles the shark, jams the blade of his knife into the primordial brain. He twists the handle once. The shark dies instantly. Trembling with adrenalin, Jason gets off its back. With his elbows Alex drags himself out of the jaws. He's badly mangled.. The shark slowly changes color to a dull brown.
You knew it wasn't dead. Jason squats down beside him to access his injuries.
Mom didn't take the necklace. did.
Then you killed her yourself. Jason slowly nods.
And you were in the car behind us. Gabriella drops down beside them. She has a flare gun, no longer needed, and sheets from the cabin to stop the bleeding. She starts to tear them up. She's crying slightly.
We were supposed to turn him ini I didn't think you were going to kill him!
Well, I didn't. Alex manages to laugh.
Jesus. You set me up. You had her call me.
I'll get on the radio. Gabriella wraps the strips of sheet tightly around what's left of Alex to bandage. She smears away the tears so she can see and leaves blood tracked across her face. She looks down to see his bloody hand clutching the necklace. They look at each other.
has the microphone in his hand. He's setting course. Gabriella appears behind him. She's holding the flare gun. She puts it back where she found it, and steps beside him and puts her arm around his waist. He lays his arm over her shoulders and holds her close while he uses the radio.
This is Hercules II, calling the Harbormaster...
You cool?
I will be.
See ya. He and Jason wave goodbye. The boat moves out. Henry is left with Alex.
 What's your name?
No way --
 -- No, listen, listen -- this is worth a fortune. (thrusting the necklace
Play the possibilities.
Yeah. Good advice. And he walks away fast.
Wait, don't go! Come back here. Come on back!
