 I've never seen the shade before, but once.
 And where might that be, may I ask?
On the legs of a kind of heron; one of the wading birds. It's a very strange color; there's nothing else quite like it in Nature. It declares the bird's position against any background.
Declares his -- does it now! Well now, surely that's a mischievous hue for the Almighty to paint a poor craytcher in this murderin' world. Declare me position indeed. Aginst inny background. That's nicely put. That's it in a nutshell. You kin see the Palace Hotel for miles up the line, all weathers, and she's starin' like the morning star. Now didn't ye? And do ye truly admire it?
It's a very remarkable shade.
Ahh, count on a traveled man for connisewership! But gintlemen, may heaven forgive me an' me guests rattlin' their teeth on me own doorstep. (he hurries to open the door and wave them past him) Come in! Come in!  One twenty-two three an' -- No, line 'em up along the south corridor and don't let the grass grow under yer feet. Hang yer coats in here, gintlemen, unless ye prefer to go straight to yer rooms.
No. -- No, thanks.
 Let's thaw ourselves out a bit; ye can sign up at yer layzhure. Not that ev'ry room in me establishment ain't as warm as toast, gintlemen, but in weather the likes o' this, ye should have the binifit o' the lee o' house.
Sure. -- Of course, thanks.
Now here's something, friends, ye couldn't hope to find in the Waldorf. Ye see? (he pours a slashing tinkle of ice- splintery water into the first basin) What would ye git there?  Shteem! Where fer the chills there's nuthin' on earth to set the blood hummin' agin like a bit o' nice brisk water. (Meantime, he is filling two more basins) Ye don't believe me?  Don't be shy! try it! You'll see. (The Easterner plunges; the instant the water hits his face he utters four sharp coughs, but he stays at it and emerges gasping and groping; Scully produces a towel he grabbed from a shelf under the tub and now says with an air of great graciousness) Yer towel, sir.
Yer towel, sir. 
 Yer towel, sir.
 Thank you.  Now just make yerselves comfortable by the stove, gintlemen. It won't be no time till dinner.
Mean weather.
Mean enough.
Seven below, last night.
That a fact.
Warmed up a leetle, but it's jest makin' fer more snow.
Snowin' a'ready.
Big wind acomin' too, shouldn't wonder.
Shouldn't wonder.
No sir, shouldn't wonder if we git us a real ole fashion' blizzard. If ye don't mind my askin', stranger, where might ye be from?
I was down to Omahaw; a little business.
An' where might ye be headin'?
Got me a little ranch, up near the Dakota line.
That a fact? Stoppin' over fer the Spur train, 's 'at right?
That's right.
Myself, I'm a farmer.
That right?
Yup. That's right. Started as a homesteader, back in seventy-six, but now I own muh land.
Uh huh.
Quarter section.
That right?
Yup. Quarter section. When I come here it warn't nuthin' but a untamed wilderness like you might say. But now I own me a quarter section.
An' what might yer own business be, stranger, if ye don't mind my askin'?
Not at all, sir. I'm a journalist. Newspaper man.
Now is that a fact?  Not meaning no offense, you're from the east, ain't you?
 Yes. (against his natural reticence) A Philadelphia paper.
Is that right now. Well, not meanin' no offense, I'm mighty glad to hear that.
 Why's that, sir?
I was skeered ye might be from Noo York City. Not that I've ever laid eyes on one, an' o' course, it could be I heared wrong. But what ye hear tell... (a half silent whistling whew with a shake of the head) ...them Noo Yorkers! (Uneasy glance at the Swede; tactful change of subject) But they ain't never nuthin' happens out here, Mister, not that's fer the nooze papers. -- Is they?
Well, you see, I'm not after news stories just now.  Back east we're all so ignorant of the rest of the country, that's all. I am too, and I don't like to be ignorant. I just want to learn what things are really like, If I can, and tell others who don't know, you see.
 An' they'll pay ye a livin' fer that?
 That's right.
But if ye don't mind me askin', why how come ye coms to Rawmpr? Ain't nuthin' ever happens here.
 Frankly I didn't know I was getting off till I got here. Seeing it from the train, I just felt I couldn't go on by without seeing more of the Blue Hotel.
Blue Hotel! Oh! You mean right where we're sett'n'?
Well, I ain't no proper jedge, but the woman, she thinks it's mighty purty.
I never saw a color like it. Not on a hotel.
Is that a fact now? Well I'll be dogged.  An' how 'bout you, Mister, if ye don't mind me askin'? Where might you be from?
Meat please... Pass the potatoes... Turnips.
Could I have the butter, please.
 Thanks.
 Me, I come from New York City.
 Do ye now! Now isn't that intristin'! Isn't that fascinatin'! A great city. Ah a great city. Well I remember me own arrival.
You come from New York too?
No, I only seen it fer a matter of days.
My home was Bahstin Mass.
I lived there ten years.
Tin yearrs. Ye don't say. Tin years. A great city.
Before that I come from Sweden.
Ye don't say. Fine people, the Swedes.
In New York I was a tailor.
A tayylor! Ye don't say! A tailor ye say. Now isn't that simply fascinatin'.  The gintleman here tells me he was a tailor. Isn't that intristin'!
Yah: tailor.
Well sir, tailorin' I never learned. Ye might call me a jack of all trades and master o' none, exceptin' hotelkeeping... (laughs modestly, glancing hopefully around the table) ...but tailorin', no, that's a mystery to me... It must be a fascinatin' trade.
EMPTY_LINE
Hard on the eyes, maybe.
 How long you been here?
Fourteen years this last August I came here and I never had cause to regret it. A good town, sir. Good neighbors.
What are the crops?
Wheat, sir. That's the main crop, ye might say the only crop. Wheat. (Eyes and polite gesture to angle of Farmer) Here's a man kin tell ye all there is to know about wheat, can't ye Henry? Henry's a wheat farmer.
Splindid soil. Rich as cheese. Some farms here, the yield is up to thirty- five bushels to the acre.  Isn't that correct?
Last summer at the best it brought 20 cents a bushel. So ye can readily see it's a prosperous community. (A rather wretched smile) Plain but prosperous.  There are farmers hereabouts who are to be accounted as wealthy men.  Farmers, mind ye. (To table at large, almost pleadingly) Wealthy!
A real old-fashioned blizzard, gintlemen. (Almost proprietary about it)
EMPTY_LINE
Sure looks like it.
 Yaahh!
 Johnnie! Lay on more coal.
Want to burn the place down?
Sure, it's rid hot now.
 I tell ye, friends, there's nuthin' like a chair beside a stove...
 ...to make ye shpit 'n the eye...
 ...o' the worst weather Heaven kin send.
 That's right.
Well, I'll be off about me dooties if you'll excuse me gintlemen.
Sure. So long.
 Certainly.
 How 'bout it? Ready to get skinned alive again?
Son, day I see you skin a gopher I'll deed ye my farm, an' my old woman throwed in.
Be good thing for your land and a mercy for your wife.
Ouch!
 Jest get busy with that skinnin', son, loud talk never proved nuthin'.
 I want to see this.
Too bad. Poor feller just ought to leave cards alone. (They nod; they are wholly on his side) Or his temper, one or the other.
That's right. Ye can't afford a temper, not if ye play much cards.
Or cards, if you have a temper.
 Mister, ya got sumpn' there.
How 'bout a whirl at four-handed; or do you reckon we can keep from bitin' each other's heads off?
 Buster, my gun's right on the table so don't try nuthin' fancy.
 We might draw up a treaty of non- aggression.
Reckon I'll throw in with you, Johnnie, you look like a mean man to have agin ye.
 Better make sure the Swede'll play.
Hey buddy.
Hey Mister.
I beg your pardon.
Hehnh?
I wondered if you'd be my par --
How 'bout a little game?
Yeh? What kind of a game?
High Five.
Never heard of it.
Some call it Cinch.
Ain't no cinch the way that poor Farmer plays it.
Some call it Double Pedro.
Never knowed that.
Ohh. Yaah. Double Pedro. Is that it.
Five o' trumps yer Pedro, five o' same color's yer left,...
 Yah.
...ranks jest below yer five o' trumps, each count ya ten points.
Yaahh. Suure I played it.  For money you mean?
Either way suits me.
Let's just play for fun.
Suits me.
 Just for fun, if that suits you.
Fun. Yah. Yah. I play.
 Fine.
Well, let's get at it. Come on now!
Bullet by golly.
Reckon that'll learn ye.
Reckon we'll leave um take this-un Johnnie-boy, sure looks like they could use it.
 Reckon we can afford it.
Haahh, Lordy, I could die laughin'!
 Your deal Johnnie, and you'd better give the other boys some cards for a change. They sure look like they could use a few.
Gett'n' chilly in here.  Hey, it's gett'n' dark.
Hmm! (he acts bemused coming out of deep concentration on the cards)
 Snow sure does look blue, this time a day.
Funny, cause snow ain't blue, it's white. Snow white, like they say.
Reckon it's the light.
 Yes.
then the Swede whose strange eyes still catch the lamplight; then Johnnie, ready to resume playing but waiting for them. This shot is to crown and epitomize the mysterious yet peaceful mood -- which is now broken by
 I suppose there have been a good many men killed in this room.
 How's that?
I said, I suppose there have been a good many men killed in this room.
What the divil're you talkin' about?
 Oh, you know what I mean, all right!
I'm a liar if I do!
 Now, what might you be drivin' at, Mister?
 Oh, maybe you think I have been to nowheres. Maybe you think I'm a tenderfoot?
I don't know nuthin' about you and I don't give a whoop where you've been. All I got to say is I don't know what you're drivin' at. There hain't never been nobody killed in this room.
 What's wrong with you, Mister?
 They say they don't know what I mean!
 I don't understand you.
 Oh, I see you are all against me. I see --
Say, what're you gett'n' at, hey?
 I don't want to fight! I don't want to fight!
 Well, who in tarnation thought you did?
 Gentlemen, I suppose I am going to be killed before I can leave this house! I suppose I am going to be killed before I can leave this house!
 These men are going to kill me.
Kill you! Kill you? What are you talkin'?
What is this, Johnnie?
 He says a good many men have been killed in this room, or something like like that. And he says he's goin' to be killed here too. I dunno what ails him. He's crazy, I shouldn't wonder.
Kill you? Kill you? Man, you're off your nut.
Oh, I know. I know what will happen. Yes, I'm crazy -- yes. But I know one thing...
...I know I won't get out of here alive.
 Well, I'm doggoned.
You've been troublin' this man!
 Why good night, I ain't done nothin to 'im!
 Gentlemen, do not disturb yourselves. I will leave this house. I will go away, because --
-- Because I do not want to be killed.
 Will ye tell me what's the matter ye young divil? What's the matter, annyhow? Speak out!
Blame it! I tell you I don't know. He -- he says we want to kill him, and that's all I know. I can't tell what ails him.
Never mind Mr. Scully; never mind. I will leave this house. I will go away because I do not want to be killed. Yes, of course, I am crazy -- yes. But I know one thing! I will go away. I will leave this house. Never mind, Mr. Scully; never mind. I will go away.
You will not go away. You will not go away until I hear the reason of this business. If anybody has troubled you I will take care of him. This is my house. You're under my roof, and I will not allow any peaceable man to be troubled here.
Never mind, Mr. Scully; never mind. I know you don't want trouble, but you can't stop them. Nobody can stop them, not God Himself.  No Mr. Scully, I will go away. I do not wish to be killed. I'll get my baggage.
 No, no!
Now. What does this mane?
 No? You didn't?
Why this is the wildest loon I ever see. We didn't do nuthin' at all. We were jest sett'n' here playin' cards, and he...
 Mister --
 Mister: what has these boys been doin'?
 I didn't see anything wrong at all.
 But what does it mane?  I've a good mind to lather ye for this, me boy!
 Well what've I done?
 I think you are tongue-tied.
Man! Man! Have you gone daffy?
Oh, no! Oh, no!  There are people in this world who know pretty nearly as much as you do -- understand?
 Just one rule, Mr. Scully, and I learned it young. Don't never trust nobody. Be ready for anything.
My father beat that into me. That's why I'm alive today. (his pleading, forbidding look intensifies)
 By cracky, I never heard of such a thing in my life. It's a complete muddle. I can't for the soul of me think how you ever got this idea into your head.  And did you sure think they were going to kill you?
 I did.
 Why, man, we're goin' to have a line of illictric street-cars in this town next spring.
 A line of electric street-cars. (he gets busy on the other strap)
And there's a new railroad goin' to be built down from Broken Arm to here. Not to mention the four churches and the smashin' big brick schoolhouse. Then there's the big factory, too. Why in two years Rrhahmpr'll be a metropolis.
 Mr. Scully, how much do I owe you?
 You don't owe me one red cent.
Yes I do. (he takes coins from his pocket and offers them to Scully, who snaps his fingers in disdainful refusal; their eyes rest on the open palm between them, gazing in a strange fashion)
 I'll not take your money. Not after what's been goin' on here.
Here, here! (he turns and picks up the lamp, CAMERA following, and comes back close again, beckoning, guileful) Come with me a minute.
Yes! Come on! I want you to come and see a pitcher -- just across the hall -- in my room.
Come on. There's nuthin' to be afraid of: Come on. (he starts for the door)
There, that's the pitcher of my little girl that died. Her name was Carrie. She had the purtiest hair you ever saw.
 I was that fond of her, she --
 Look, man! That's the pitcher of my little girl that died. Her name was Carrie. (Swede is around, reluctant, scared, uninterested. As his eyes lift toward the picture, SWING CAMERA to lose him, and past Scully, and to new picture as Scully continues) And then here's the pitcher of my eldest boy, Michael... (graduation shot, cap and gown, a smart, shrewd, ambitious- looking young Irishman) ...he's a lawyer in Lincoln, an' doin' well. I gave that boy a grand eddication an' I'm glad for it now. He's a fine boy. Look at him now.
Ain't he bold as blazes, him there in Lincoln! An honored and respected gintleman.  An honored and respected gintleman. (he smites the Swede jovially on the back; the Swede smiles faintly, lugubriously) Now, there's only one thing more. (he turns from the wall and the Swede turns his head back to CAMERA to look.)
 I'd keep it under me piller if it wasn't fer that boy Johnnie.
 Then there's the old woman -- Where is it now?
 I never put it twice in the same place. Ah, now, come out with ye.
I've fetched him!
 Drink.
Drink!
 That's the dod-dangdest Swede I ever see!
 He ain't no Swede.
Well what is he then? What is he then?
 It's my opinion he's some kind of a Dutchman.
 Yes, sir, it's my opinion this feller is some kind of a Dutchman.
 Well he says he's a Swede anyhow.  What do you think?
Oh, I don't know.
Well, what do you think makes him act like that?
Why, he's frightened. (he flicks ash in spittoon)
 He's clear frightened out of his boots.
EMPTY_LINE
 But this ain't Wyoming, ner none o' them places. This is Nebrasky.
 Yeah, an' why don't he wait till he gits out West?
 It isn't so wild out there even -- not in these days. But he thinks he's right in the middle of hell.
 It's awful funny.
Yeah, this is a queer game. I hope we don't git snowed in... (Easterner glances toward front window) ...'cause then we'd have to stand this here man around with us all the time. That wouldn't be no good.  No sir ree bob tail.
I wish Pop ud throw him out.
Couldn't do that. He ain't done nuthin'. Not edsackly.
I don't care. I don't like him.
You or me neither.
Gosh!
 'He don't like it', he sez! Wouldn't that kill yez?
He don't like it, huh? Haw, haw,! Durn good!
 Come now, move up and give us a chance at the stove.
Come, git over there.
Plenty of room without me movin'.
 An' you with the warmest spot in the house?
 No, no. Let the boy sit where he likes.
 All right! All right!
Anyhow, I don't know as I want to sit with these people.
Just suit yourself Mister. We'd be glad of yer company, but just suit yourself. Liberty Hall, ye know. 
I want a drink of water.
 I'll git it for you.
 Nahh, I'll get it for myself.
 Ye know what? Upstairs? I gave him a little snort o' what's good for yez, an' he thought I was tryin' to poison 'im!
 Say, this makes me sick, why...
 Ssh!
 ...why don't you throw 'im out in the snow?
Why, he's all right now. It was only that he was from the East, and he thought this was a tough place...
 ...That's all. He's all right now.
You were straight. You were onto that there Dutchman, dead to rights.
Well, he may be all right now, but I don't see it. Other time he was scared, but now he's too fresh. Ain't that right?
 Sure looks like it to me.
Looks like to me he's bound to fall off one side a th' hoss or t'other.
 Why don't you kick him out, Pop?
What do I keep? What do I keep? What do I keep? (he slaps one knee impressively; shouts) I keep a hotel! A hotel, do ye mind? A guest under my roof has sacred privileges. He is to be intimidated by none. Not one word shall he hear that would prijiduce him in favor of goin' away. I'll not have it. There's no place in this here town where they can say they iver took in a guest of mine because he was afraid to stay here. (he wheels intensely on the Cowboy and the Easterner -- to the Cowboy) Am I right?
 Yes, Mr. Scully, I think you're right.
 Am I right?
 Yes, Mr. Scully, I think you're right.
 Papa: supper.
 Supper, gintlemen. 
 You gentlemen don't like a little dinner music?
Or maybe it ain't the custom in your country? 
 Ain't it the custom Mr. Scully? Am I making a foe pah, like the feller says?
 O, yes, yes. It's a custom. Music or not, it's all the same.
EMPTY_LINE
 'Course in a low-class joint -- a domp...  ...you can't expect no musicians, nor no appreciation, neither. Bunch of ignorant louts is all. Ain't that right, Mr. Scully?
 Yah, just a bonch a louts.  Tough guys. (flicks eyes and giggles) But this ain't no domp!  Oh no.  And you ain't no tough guys. (flicks and giggles harder) Ooohh no!  Are ye Johnnieboy? (he side-swipes Johnnie with his eating elbow; Johnnie swipes back hard; Swede roars with laughter.) Oh, I beg yer pardon Johnnieboy! I got to mind my manners I can see that!
 What's that?
What's that I said!
 Nuthin' to be scared of Mister. Just the wind. Just the angle of the wind in the chimney.
 Who's scared? (he looks around; silence) Who says so? 
 Me scared?  Me?
 Butter please.
 That's what I like about the hotel you keep Mister Scully.  It ain't got no class but they ain't nobody can say you're stingy with the vittles: hah?
O parrdon mee. Marrdon me paddum this pie is occypewed, allow me to sew you to another sheet, a-har-har- har-har-har, that's a hot one, huh? How do you like that! This pie is occypewed. Huh? Oh marrdon me paddum. (the daughter, behind him, is trying to get past his elbow: he makes her have to lean against him) Miss I ought to say. Mardon me... (he begins to finish the spoonerism with silent lips, is taken by mock surprise, mock shock, amusement and delight; Scully glances up at him very sharply; to Scully, pleasantly) She ain't married is she Mister Scully? (silence; even more honeyed) How old is your daughter, Mister Scully? (no answer. -- Daughter by now has collected Scully's plate and vanished down the line of Cowboy and Easterner, out of shot) Mardon me sir I mean sardon me mur; that ain't a question a gentleman would ask, is it? Is it Mister Scully?  But it's a fair bet she's older than Johnnieboy, huh Johnnie? Could pretty near be Johnnie's mother, huh?
Poor girl. I must of said something that hurt her feelings. You tell her how sorry I am Mister Scully if I don't get a chance to tell her myself, will you?  Please sir. They ain't nothing a gentleman feels so ashamed of as if he hurts a lady's feelings. Yes, I tell you, Mister Scully, you're a mighty lucky man, you got a fine girl will stay with you she likes her old Dad so much, when plenty would just get married and clear outa this town quick as they got the chance. Cuts down the overhead, you don't have to hire no help. Maybe she gives you her tips, hah? Besides, you run a hotel that ain't so much fer class, it makes up fer a lot if you see a pretty girl around the place. Hah? Little services she can do the guests, don't ya know, that need the woman's touch? Yes, sir, my opinion is, you're a mighty lucky man. (but instead of quite getting out "man" clearly, he nurses and relishes along and delivers a slow tremendous growling belch) Now where I come from, a feller that done that, they'd say it was somethin' so awful it ain't any use to make excuses. They'd just say, go on out an' eat with the pigs. That's in Europe. But heere: In Americah: Course in China they tell me, why if you don't give a nice big belch why your host his feelings get hurt cause you ain't got no manners. You give a belch to prove you like the eats. Like that. See? But then you ain't no Chinaman, are you Mister Scully. (the low steady giggle and the look around) No sir, it takes all kinds.
Funny thing, you fellers don't eat enough. Look hearty, except a course our little friend from Philadelphia, but you don't eat enough. Except Johnnieboy here. He'll eat you outa house and home, hah Johnnie? But Johnnie needs it. Gonna make a man of him someday hah Johnnieboy?  If he can eat enough.  Now me: one thing I can say for myself, ain't nothing ever hurts my appetite. I betcha I could eat hearty off my dead mother's coffin.  Take tonight. Nobody talking hardly but me. Nobody but me trying to be sociable and keep the ball rolling. Lotsa people that'd put um off their feed like it done you fellers, but not me. Like you see it in the papers, the condemned man ate a hearty breakfast. Supper I mean.  All it takes now to make it perfect is another little glass of schnapps, uhh? Settle our chow? Put the stummick juices to work? Hehnh?
 No... think not... moderation... save it for medicinal purposes...
 Oohh, Miss-ter Scully!
Well, anyhow old boy, that was a good square meal.
 Why don't you license somebody to kick you downstairs?
 I thing that Swede had something.
Anything he's got he can keep.
When he thought Scully was trying to poison him.
Mister!
 Alll right: where's them cards?
 Oh, I don't think that's such a very good idea perhaps...
 Oh you don't huh?
 Well, of course it isn't for me to decide...
 How about you?
 It suits me if you gentlemen want to play.
 Got any objections?
 Suits me Mister.
Looks like you're out voted Mister Scully so where's them cards?
 Well now that's friendly of you but if you gentlemen don't mind I think I'll just look at me paper; here it is night already and all day I haven't...
 So?
Yes; I'll play.
 It's quit snowin' gintlemen.
Yeah?
 But a worse wind than ever. Bitter night. 
 Well, it's your bid.
Don't hurry me, boy. 
 Couldn't help me out, Huh?
I pass.
 That's my trick.
 So? I played the ace.
 That ain't the trump suit.
 So?
 Yeah, so.
It's yours. (he shrugs and tosses trick to center of table)
 That's Johnnie's trick.
So? What's trumps?
 Clubs, and besides you didn't only play a trey.
My left Pedro.
Five o' spades yer left Pedro.
Oh, five; oh yaah. Five.  Okay; it's yours. (he tosses the trick toward Johnnie) It's only in fun.
 Your play.
 If you'd held onto that Jack we could have busted them you know.
 Just play your own hand Mister. I'll take care of mine.
 "Lake Titicaca in Peru is the highest body of fresh water in the world, altitude a thousand feet. It's depths have never yet been plumbed." Niver yet been plumbed. Fascinatin'. Now isn't that fascinatin'!  "Some of the Giant Redwoods in California were sturdy saplings in the days of King Solomon (Circa 700 B.C.)". Think o' that!  Sturdy saplings were they! My!  "The longest railroad tunnel on the North American Continent is --
 You are cheatin'!
He says I cheated! He says --
 I saw him! He did! I saw him! I saw --
Stop now! Stop I say! Stop now --
Quit now! Quit! D'ya hear --
 Wait a moment can't you? Oh, wait a moment!
 What's the good of a fight --
Quit it! Quit now! Qui --
He did! He did!
...over a game of cards? Wait a moment!
Stop it now! Stop it I say! St --
He says I cheated! He --
 ...he says I cheated! I won't allow no man to say I cheated! If he says I cheated he's a...
 He did cheat! I saw him!
I saw him! He did! He did!
 What did you say I cheated for? What did you say I cheated for? I don't cheat and I won't let no man say I do.
I saw you! I saw you!
Well, I'll fight any man what says I cheat!
No you won't. Not here.
Ah be still can't you?
 Oh, wait a moment can't you? What's the good of a fight over a game of cards? Wait a moment.
 Did you say I cheated?
 Yes.
 Then we must fight.
 Yes, fight!
 Yes fight! I'll show you what kind of man I am!
 I'll show you who you want to fight! Maybe you think I can't fight! Maybe you think I can't! I'll show you, you skin, you card-sharp! Yes, you cheated! You cheated! You cheated!
 Well, let's get at it, then, Mister.
 What ya goin' to do now?
 We'll let 'em fight. I can't put up with it any longer. I've stood this crazy Swede till I'm sick. We'll let them fight.
 Well, come on.
 I haven't got a chance against you bastards.
 What's that you say?
 I say, I won't stand much show against this gang. I know you'll all pitch on me.
 Tut, man!
 You're all a gang of...
 Oh I know what kind of a thing this is! I know you'll all pitch on me! I can't lick you all!
 You'll not have to whip all of us. You'll have to whip my son Johnnie. An' the man what troubles you durin' that time will have me to dale with!
 All right now. Fight as ye are: ye'll not strip in this weather. Bare fists to a finish, no holds, no kneeing, no kicks, no gouging. Fight to be ended when ayther man calls quits or at me own discretion. That satisfactory?
Suits me.
 Now await me signal and abide by me instructions.
 Now! 
EMPTY_LINE
 Get up. Get up and fight. Get up.
I ain't out.
Don't lay there all night then you yellow...
Shut up Johnnie it was no true fall. The man's got a right to...
 Git back off the ice both o' yez.
 Go it Johnnie! Go it! Kill him! Kill him!
 Kape back.
 Kill him Johnnie! Kill him! Kill him!
 Keep still.
 No you don't! Wait a second!
 Johnnie! Johnnie, me boy! Johnnie! Can you go on with it? (he is looking anxiously down)
 Yes, I... it... yes.
 You wait a second.
Wait a bit now till you get your wind.
 You wait a second.
 Oh, this is enough! This is enough! Let it go as it stands. This is enough!
 Bill.
 Git out o' the road.
Are you any good yet, Johnnie?
 No... I ain't... any good... any... more.  He was too... too... too heavy for me.
 Stranger, it's all up with our side.
 Johnnie is whipped.
 Tsah-right Johnnie. Tsah-right kid. We'll fix him. We'll sure fix him.
Johnnie, can you walk?
Did I hurt... hurt him any?
Can you walk, boy! Can you walk!
 I asked you if I hurt him any!
Yes, yes, Johnnie, he's hurt a good deal.
 Let's get him up, Bill.
Aisy does it. That's the ticket.
How's 'at now?
 Did he hurt ye child did he hurt ye so bad? (she squats in front of him) Lookit me Johnnie let me see yez. (Under this Johnnie, from his first hearing of them, has been shrinking into himself and now mutters across her line)
 Cut it out Ma... (a couple of half- whispered words, covered by loud talk from her...) ...sake cut it out!
Please! Please! Quit it! Le' me be!
 Ohh, me boy! Me little boy! And him sitchy charmer! Lookit 'im Katy! Jist lookit that! Ohh ain't it dreadful, did you ever see sitch a starin' horror!
 Crazy ye are, jist outa yer mind, an' him a man twice his age an' size, the great bullyin' murderer...
 Get away, cut it out, quit it I tell ya, I ain't hurt bad, I'm all right...
 Molly! Please! Molly! Hush now! Molly! Not here. Molly!
 Shut up an' keep outa this, you! Haven't ya done enough, standin' by while a man half kills my baby boy? (her eyes rake all of them) Crazy men! Bloodthirsty brutes! (her daughter echoes her less noisily, ad lib)
 Poor darlin'! Crazy boy, brawlin' young fool, now jist come with mother, gently darlin', come darlin', kin ye walk, son? Come on, let's bathe the poor blood off an' fix 'im up comfy.
 Shame be upon you, Patrick Scully! Yer own son, too! Shame be upon you!
 Shame, shame.
 There, now! Be quiet now!
Shame, I say. Shame.
 Tst-tst-tst.
Tst-tst-tst.
 I'd like to fight this here Swede myself.
 No, that wouldn't do. It wouldn't be right. It wouldn't be right.
EMPTY_LINE
 No, it wouldn't be right. It was Johnnie's fight, and now we musn't whip the man just because he whipped Johnnie.
Yes, that's true enough, but  he better not get fresh with me, because I couldn't stand no more of it.
 Ye'll not say a word to him.
 Well, I spose you'll tell me now how much I owe you?
 You don't owe me nothin'.
 Stranger, I don't see how you come to be so gay around here.
 Stop! Bill, you shut up!
 I didn't say a word, did I?
 Mr. Scully, how much do I owe you?
 You don't owe me nothin'.
Huh! I guess you're right. I guess if it was any way at all, you'd owe me somethin'. That's what I guess. (he pivots fast and rigidly and takes two paces toward the Cowboy; then, leaning forward, stiff-legged from his heels, and mimicking even the Cowboy's agony-mask, screams) Kill 'im! Kill 'im! Kill 'im! (he guffaws victoriously) Kill 'im!
 Unh! Byg! Golly!
Oh, but that was a hard minute! That was a hard minute! Him there leerin' an' scoffin'! (he is pretty CLOSE now, WHEEL CAMERA for TWO SHOT, still favoring Scully) One bang at his nose was worth forty dollars to me that minute! How did you stand it, Bill!
 How did I stand it? How did I stand it? OH! (a violent fist through the air)
Oi'd loike to take that Swede and hould him down on a shtone flure and bate 'im to a jelly wid a shtick!
 ...hammer that there Dutchman till he couldn't tell himself from a dead coyote!
I'd bate 'im until he...
EMPTY_LINE
 I'd show him some things...
YES!
YISS!
 An' then I'd... 
 Yis, an' I'd... 
 Yeah, an I'd... (a terrific blow on the air; four hard fast jabs, a gigantic uppercut, hard breathing)
EMPTY_LINE
 A-aaahhh! (he jumps up and down on it)
 Oh-o-OH!
 Oh-o-OH!
 Oh, stop it!
How's that, pardner?
 Eh?
 I said, stop it. (he gets up and walks toward CAMERA and out of shot toward the front of the room. Over his next line, CAMERA SWINGS across Cowboy and Scully, watching him, astonished; loses them and again picks up Easterner as he nears the stairway door.) Surely there's some limit to childishness and cowardice and shame!
 What's eatin' you, Mister?
That's all. I'm going to find that Swede and try to make up for what we've done to him.
 Now Mr. Blanc, what's all this about?
 Here's what I owe you Mr. Scully.
 What's your complaint? I thought we was friends here.
Please. Take it. There's no time to waste.
 You fer that Dutchman?
Yes, what is this about the Swede?
 We've done him a great wrong.
 Huh?
Wrong! We couldn't treat him fairer -- we never touched a hair of his head!
 Ah you don't know the meaning of fairness. Either of you.
Now you look here, Mister...
 See here, Sir: guest or no guest, nobody can tell Patrick Scully he ain't a fair man.
Suppose I prove it.
Try, just. Fair enough. But Mister: ye better make it shtick!
That goes for me too.
Very well.
When the Swede said Johnnie was cheating, and Johnnie called him a liar, it was one man's word against another. Am I right?
That was all we had to go on to prevent a fight. Correct?
Correct.
All right.  Did it occur to either of you that the Swede might be telling the truth?
 Mm-hm. That's the word.
 Thank you, gentlemen: there's your proof.  Now please...
 Are you accusin' Johnnie of...
 I'm accusing nobody. I'm proving you don't know the a-b-c-'s of fairness.
But that Dutchman, he's crazy.
 Stick to the point.
If he ever did tell the truth -- an' that I beg leave to doubt -- it'd be the first time in his life.
That would make it a lie?
Good as a lie.
Fine. Splendid.
Why, that bird, if he did tell the truth, I wouldn't keer.
 You've proved my point several times over; don't strain yourselves.
 That's right; shrug it off; it's a small matter. It's why wars are fought; why a great nation can fall apart like rotten meat.
 Yeah? Well what're you...
 ...talkin' so high and mighty about, I want to know! You was there too, but I didn't notice you sayin' nuthin'!
 Now how about, yes how about that! Tarred with the same brush, ain't you?
 Oh no. A blacker brush.  You see: I knew.
 Yes: Johnnie was cheating.
Why, no. We wasn't playin' fer money. It was just in fun.
 Oh, yes!
Fun or not, Johnnie was cheating. I saw him. I know it. I saw him.
 Mister: I don't believe you.
Why would I lie to you?
That's for you to tell us.
 Ye lied before or now, by yer own admission. I'll take me pick.
 I lied when I kept quiet.
Why? If ye saw what ye claim?
 Cowardice.
That's all. (his eyes show us they still can't understand; with self-contempt and weary patience) We hated the Swede; you believed Johnnie; you liked me. I wasn't man enough to make enemies of you. I let that poor fool fight it out alone.
 Then why're ye tellin' us now?
Because there's a limit to cowardice.
 Mister, if you're tellin' the truth, you're makin' yerself out the yallerist coward ever I seen.
Oh, we're all cowards; that's the root of the trouble. Johnnie is behind us; you're afraid to face the truth about him and your own unfairness; I'm just the worst of a bad bunch.
 I s'pose that Swede's your idea of a hero.
He was the only brave man here tonight.
Brave? Him?
Him? His knees was knockin'!
 Sure; he was scared sick. My bet is, he's been sick all his life, with cowardice. What a living hell! But I guess he reached his limit too. He stood up to it tonight -- worse fear than we'll ever dream of. And beat it too -- sure as he beat up Johnnie. Yes Mr. Scully, he's my idea of a hero. And whatever becomes of him now, it's our fault as much as his.
 Our fault! Why, that feller's just...
 Certainly our fault. Good heavens, we flatter ourselves we're civilized men... fit to cope with Destiny, Fate, the Devil Himself. And we come up against some puzzling minor disturbance like this Swede, and all we can do is the worst that's in us. (a strange, almost clairvoyant bitterness) Oh, we declared ourselves, all right... as sure as that blue-legged heron! Yes indeed! We made him what he's become tonight. We're the ones who've put him in danger!
 Talk sense, man! Danger!
Look here. Any man is in danger who has spent a lifetime in fear and humiliation, and then suddenly finds his right to be alive. He's a danger to others, too. He doesn't know any better yet how to handle his power, than a child with a loaded gun.
Just a minute, you: Johnnie's goin' to have a fair hearin'.
Oh by all means for Johnnie! But don't waste my time with it. I've...
 Johnnie...
H'lo, Pop. (to the others, with a sad, brave smile as he starts past) 'Night.
 Johnnie...
 Mr. Blanc has something to say to you.
Leavin' us, Mister?
 Well what's up?
 You cheated, Johnnie.
 What's that?
I said, you cheated. I saw you.
 What is this, a joke?
 You must of made a big mistake, Mister; 'cause I don't cheat.
 Now how about that, Sir!
 Anybody can make a mistake.
 I owe you this, Mr. Scully.
Now none o' that, son. There's been enough o' that.
 You won't take it?
Well I can't keep it.
 I'm sorry it isn't thirty pieces of silver.
So now he's sacred into the bargain!
 Sacred enough; he's my conscience. Yours too, if you only knew it.
 Matter with that guy? Gone crazy?
 We can't let him shpread it all over town.
Of course we hardly need to tell you, Sir, how deeply we regret it: Even those of us who voted against you on principle... and it is in our honorableness and candor due a friend that I tell you that I was one of them... (the Merchant is deeply moved by admiration for all this) ...even we regretted it most painfully, perhaps most painfully of all if I may say so. After all, every responsible person in Fort Romper, every self-respecting man in this part of the State, knows you as a square gambler. You have never yet been known to take advantage of any man who didn't, in every sensible person's... uh... in the opinion of every sensible person, richly deserve it, one might say "ask for it". Your family life is exemplary. Your companionship is a pleasure which all of us hope to share for many years to come (even more earnestly and gently) But we do hope you understand, Sir. After all, (his voice all but cracks with earnestness) the Pollywog Club is a pleasure club. Oh, stakes, perhaps modest stakes, but among amateurs as it were; (a feeble would-be- charming smile) greenhorns. Of course there isn't a single member of our little club who could imagine that you would ever... ever, well, as it were, uh, well, violate, uh, take advantage of... (by now he is thoroughly miserable) ...I do hope you understand me, Sir. (the invisible man just lets him fry) But a professional gambler, after all. It's just the principle of the thing you know. The ap... the appearance of the thing. No personal offense in the world. (pause; no help from the Gambler) (miserably but with dignity) I do only hope you understand me, Sir, how very deeply embarrassing this is for me... for all of us. How very deeply we regret it.
 My dear sir: friends: I wish I might have saved you this painful embarrassment. It is because I honor you as gentlemen and as friends that I know that you must meet me with candor, however painful that might be for you. I am deeply grateful for that candor. Allow me to meet you with equal candor. I think I need say only this: If I were a member of the Pollywog Club, and my own name or that of any other professional gambler were brought to a vote, I would have acted precisely as you have done, for precisely the same reasons, and with precisely the same sentiments, before, during, and after. In a word, I would have blackballed myself from the Pollywog without a second thought.
 Let us stand, my friends, and drink: to a gentleman!
 To you: gentlemen: and my good friends.
 Hey -- Hey!
 'Scuse me, folks, it just slipped out.
 Gimme some whiskey, will you?
 Pretty bad night.
Bad night. (his meaning is clearly double and quietly discourteous: bad night for you, bud, that's clear enough)
 Oh, it's good enough for me.
 Keep it, keep it.
 Thank you sir.
 Buy yourself a cigar.
No, this isn't too bad weather. It's good enough for me.
 So? (he drifts a foot or so away, down bar)
Yes, I like this weather. I like it. (nodding heavy time to his words) It suits me.
 So? (he turns to study the bar mirror)
Well, I guess I'll have another drink. (he pours, a heavier slug than before but slower and, raising his glass, needing company bad but trying to make it seem casual, he eyes Barkeeper o.s.) Have something?
No, thanks, I'm not drinking.
How'd you hurt your face? (a tinge of mild insult which the Swede misses)
 Why, in a fight. I thumped the soul out of a man down here at Scully's hotel.
 Who was it?
Johnnie Scully. Son of the man what runs it.
He'll be pretty near dead for some weeks, I can tell you.
 I made a nice thing of him, I did. He couldn't get up. They...
 ...had to carry him in the house. Have a drink?
 No thanks.
 Come on, have a drink. (he grabs the bottle and holds it out)
EMPTY_LINE
What... No? Well, have a little one then. (thick fingers measure a little one) By Golly, I've whipped a man tonight, and I want to celebrate. Whipped him good too. (he turns his head suddenly again into hindside close up of his face. Calls loudly) Gentlemen, have a drink?
Ssh!
 Thanks. We don't want any more.
 Well, it seems I can't get any one to drink with me in this town. Seems so, don't it? Well!
Ssshhh!
 Say, don't you try to shush me up. I won't have it. I'm a gentleman, and I want people to drink with me. And I want um to drink with me now.  NOW! You understand?
 I hear you.
 Well, listen hard then. See those men over there? (he flings out a thick arm) Well, they're gonna drink with me and don't you forget it! Now you watch!
Hey! This won't do!
 Why won't it?
 How about this? I asked you to drink with me. (his eyes flick sorely and quickly toward the others)
 My friend, I don't know you.
 Ahh, come on and have a drink!
 Now, my boy, take your hand off my shoulder and go 'way and mind your own business.
What! You won't drink with me, you little dude? I'll make you then! I'll make you!
 O my Gahhd-uh. O my Gahhhd-uh.
 O my Gaaahhhdd-uh, my Gaaahhdd-uh.
 May I have your bar-cloth, please.
 Yes, sir.
 Charlie, you tell 'em where to find me. I'll be home, waiting for 'em.
 Helllllp! Murrrrrder! Helllllp!
 How did it happen?
 You ask me, that feller was lookin' for trouble. An' he sure found himself a plenty.
 Like all troubled men.  And we helped him find it, and we trapped him into it.
 See here, Mister.
Just one thing.
 Go home.
Just one little thing. Johnnie an' me live in this town. We don't want no stories shpread around that ye...
 Go home. Stop worrying. Tell whatever story you please.
Ye mane ye -- ye won't...
Your conscience is your business. Each one of you. My own is enough for me to cope with.
 So just go home now. Leave me alone.  If you please!
 We didn't have no part in it.
Every sin is a collaboration. Everybody is responsible for everything.
 Come on.
