Did you hear something?
The doorbell.
Are you sure that was the doorbell? From down below... the DOORBELL rings again.
Yep. Norma retrieves her WATCH from the bedside table.
What time is it?
Quarter 'til five. Norma gets out of bed and throws on her bathrobe. Arthur sits up, hair sticking up in every direction. He has sideburns that run down the side of his face like daggers.
What is it?
Someone left a box.
Who?
I don't know. There was a car waiting... but they drove off. Norma hands the box to Arthur. He examines it.
Is that one of my Christmas presents? Their young son, WALTER LEWIS , is standing at the top of the stairs. He is dressed in his pajamas. His parents just stare back at him in silence.
Should I close my eyes?
Maybe... it's up to you. Arthur opens the lid and sees that there are FOAM PEANUTS inside. He digs down and retrieves a WOODEN BOX. Its dimensions are 8" x 8" x 8".
Is there a note? Arthur reaches inside the box and retrieves a small WHITE ENVELOPE. Printed on the envelope in CALLIGRAPHY is the name:
It's for you, Norma. Norma opens the envelope and removes a folded piece of white stationary. Printed in elegant calligraphy is a single sentence:
Mr. Steward will call upon you at 5
I dunno. You tell us.
The box sits on the table between them. Arthur opens up the newspaper.
What kind of car was it?
I couldn't see. It was dark and 1 didn't have my contacts in.
Why would they just drive off?
I don't know. But the bus will be here if five minutes... so eat.
Last day of school and now it starts to snow?!
Put on your hat... A young girl, DANA  is waiting at the end of the sidewalk. She is wrapped head-to-toe in warm clothes... EARMUFFS and SCARF around her neck.
 Hi Mrs. Lewis.
Good morning, Dana.
You are old!
I'm thirty-one!
To us that's old! You're a geezer!
Well you'll be a geezer one day too, smarty-pants.
Why does the bus stop have to be at the end of our driveway?
Please. Go. Inside. You're embarrassing me.
My love embarrasses you?
Yes. Yes it does. She begins to walk down the sidewalk... taunting him as the bus approaches.
What if I give little Walter a little kiss in front of all his friends on the school bus? Dana's eyes widen. A MISCHIEVOUS GRIN emerges from behind the scarf that covers the lower part of her face.
Do it! The bus is fast approaching... brakes squealing as it slows to a stop.
Don't come any closer! Norma gives him a big HUG and a KISS right as the bus doors open. A bunch of OLDER KIDS stare out the window... scowling at him. Walter pushes away from her and stomps up onto the bus... mortified. Dana follows him.
Dana... you're baby-sitting for us tonight, right?
Eight o'clock?
Eight o'clock.
Okay. Dana gets on the bus. BUD WALL , the bus driver, smiles at Norma. He is an enormous giant of a man with a shaved head.
Bus-Driver Bud! Merry Christmas...
Our last day!
I know!
It'll all be over soon, Norma. He stares at her for a moment that is almost too long... then shuts the doors to the bus.
 Do you realize that this is the first time in my life that I will be taking more than a week's vacation, June? Norma arrives in the kitchen. She now has a slight limp.
 And enjoy it! Don't worry about the office!
Rex Morgan... I need you back here no later than seven. Rehearsal dinner starts at eight. Arthur grabs his BRIEFCASE and a BASKETBALL.
The Viking Squad has a game at four.
Don't get stuck in Friday traffic...
Okay June. He starts bouncing the ball on the kitchen floor. She grabs the ball in mid bounce... annoyed with him.
Not in the house!
How's your foot?
It's fine. She pushes him toward into the FAMILY ROOM... opening the door that leads out to the garage. They exit the house and the CAMERA drifts back toward the kitchen table... moving in toward the box.
It's your Christmas present.
From you?
From your secret lover.
Don't be late tonight.
I've got your present at work. It's almost finished. He smiles... then peels off down Monument Ave. From Norma's REAR VIEW MIRROR... Arthur's car disappears down the road. She reaches up to re-adjust... her eyes appear in the mirror's reflection. INSERT: Norma's VIRGINIA license plate. The Oldsmobile drives down the street in the opposite direction.
It's twenty-three degrees on this December morning here in Richmond... The CAMERA moves over the DOWNTOWN EXPRESSWAY... heavy traffic moves in either direction. The CAMERA approaches the side of ARTHUR'S TRANS-AM as it crests around the INTERSTATE EXCHANGE onto ROUTE 64 at the HISTORICAL CLOCK TOWER of MAIN STREET TRAIN STATION.
The French government, in what was seen here as a gesture to President- elect Jimmy Carter, announced Thursday a further tightening of controls over the exportation of nuclear technology. The CAMERA swoops down alongside the driver's side of Arthur's car... moving into the SIDE VIEW MIRROR. His face reflected in the mirror... listening to the radio as he begins his southbound commute to work.
Why does your mom limp?
Yeah... is something wrong with her foot?
That's none of your business.
Dana saw her take her shoe off in the parking lot yesterday.
There's definitely something wrong with her foot. It looks mangled.
You didn't say mangled... you said it looked gross. Walter lunges at Charles and pushes him up against the locker... awkwardly trying to fight him.
If you ever make fun of my mom again I'll kill you! Walter storms off down the hall.
The uhhh... the board came to a vote last week, so it's official. They've officially cancelled the faculty tuition discount.
So what does that mean for me?
Starting when?
Next semester. Norma notices a SMALL DROP of BLOOD forming in his right nostril.
Okay.
I'm real sorry about this, Norma.
Yeah, me too. I've got three weeks to figure out how to tell my son we can't afford to send him to Collegiate any more. The drop of blood has begun to flow down onto his upper lip.
Like I said, I'm real sorry.
Yeah... your nose is bleeding. Poates reaches for his HANDKERCHIEF and puts it to his face, wiping off the blood. The MORNING BELL rings.
Okay... everyone quiet down! Take your seats! Norma moves toward a stack of METAL TRAYS on her desk. Inside of each tray is a BALL OF BLACK MUSH.
Today is the day many of you have been eagerly awaiting. You get to dissect owl pellets. A MALE STUDENT  pumps his fist...
Why do they call it an owl pellet? A MALE STUDENT  next to him takes his tray from Norma.
Hey... watch the language. You say another cuss word I've gotta send you to detention, okay?
Is what true?
Yes... this is true. The classroom gasps in disgust... others laugh.
Grey forest owls feed upon field mice, squirrels and small birds. The owl will then regurgitate the bones and waste matter in a ball of black mucous. Inside this mucous you will likely find the entire skeleton of its prey. Norma goes to the front of the room and lowers a SCREEN.
I'm going to show you a film about the digestive process of the owl, and how the owl pellet is formed. The classroom whispers with excitement.
It's been five months since the Viking lander touched down on the surface of Mars. We've seen dozens of photographs of the rock covered surface... what can you now tell us about the tests you've been conducting? Is there any sign of life on the red planet? Arthur takes a seat in the back of the auditorium.
Well... there are three separate tests that we've been conducting... Pyrolytic Release, Labeled Release and Gas Exchange. The first two tests, based on soil samples about 22 centimeters deep, came back negative... and the third is... still pending. Cahill smiles. Laughter erupts from various parts of the auditorium.
Can you elaborate on test number three? Cahill places a transparent MAP of the mars surface on the overhead projector and begins to draw on it with a WAX
The gas exchange experiment measures the production or uptake of C02, nitrogen, methane, hydrogen, and oxygen during the incubation of the martian soil sample.
Are you showing us all of the photos? Are there little green men up there? Laughter from the press.
Well... there is a possibility that the planet abounds with chemical compounds produced by living systems. Their chemical nature, distribution and structural uniqueness could be used to argue the presence of microscopic living organisms on Mars. As Cahill moves on to the next question... Arthur taps the reporter on the shoulder.
It all comes down to water. Arthur points to an OVERHEAD SATELLITE PHOTO of Utopia Planitia, a raised level of martian terrain in the vicinity of the site where VIKING II landed. There are dry river-bed formations in the soil.
If we find water beneath the surface... and the topographic maps of Utopia Planitia indicate that there were once rivers on the surface of the planet, it's possible that we'll eventually find evidence of life.
I'm sorry Arthur, but they've denied your application to be admitted into the astronaut program. Arthur looks crushed.
I see.
I'm sorry, son... but they don't tell us why.
Are they really with-holding some of the Mars photos?
I don't know, man. Jesus... what's that smell?
It's a salinic compound.
What are you making?
Christmas present for Norma. Arthur retrieves a WHITE CERAMIC MOLD. The mold has an extrusion that is shaped like a WOMAN'S FOOT... only the end of the foot is round and missing its toes, save for the PINKY
A new prosthesis for her foot?
Yep. Arthur carefully impresses the MOLD of his wife's foot into the pink goop... sealing the mold at the edges into the tray.
What did you change up this time?
The compound they're developing for the pilot chairs on the space shuttle.
The tray belongs to Charles, and he has grown tired of dissecting the owl pellet. He looks up to the head of the class and sees that Norma is sitting up on her desk... filing her nails... waiting out the last remaining minutes of the period.
Mrs. Lewis?
Hmmm?
What happened to your foot? She just stares at him.
What happened... to my foot?
Yeah.
Well... it's a long story. She looks at her watch.
We've got five minutes until second period. She looks back at her class and sees that their curiosity has been piqued. She has no choice now but to tell them.
Alright... I'll tell you what happened to my foot.
When she was seventeen... still living in Texas, her brother dropped a barbell on her foot... broke three of her toes.
And so I go to see the doctor. He goes to take an X-ray of my foot to see if the bones are broken.
So this dumb-ass Richmond doctor takes the x-ray... then he goes to check on another patient down the hall. Arthur discards a king.
This dumb--ass... he left the x-ray machine on.
Jesus. That's not good.
They found out that the tissue in four of my toes had been completely
So they have to amputate four of my toes. And then they had to take a bunch of skin from my inner thigh to cover the front of my foot. This is back in 1963... so they didn't have the skin graft techniques they do now.
She had to sit there in a hospital bed in the same position for six months, waiting for it to heal. Wendell stares at the mold on the laboratory table.
Jesus. I hope she sued this idiot.
Oh yeah. Her family sued. They won.
What was the settlement?
Forty thousand dollars. Arthur pulls the ceramic mold out of the pink goop... and we see the IMPRESSION of her disfigured foot inside the new
You guys want to see it? Now that the secret is out... I don't want you spreading rumors about my mangled foot. The class responds enthusiastically.
Come on... gather round... take a look at the freak show. As the kids gather around... Norma removes her right shoe and reveals her disfigured foot... missing every toe but her pinky. A rounded piece of SCAR TISSUE covers the rest of it.
If this sucker works... she can, start jogging again.
I'm sorry I said that her foot looked gross.
It doesn't look gross... it looks cool. And if you can't tell the difference between gross and cool... then I feel sorry for you, Dana. Walter walks off... leaving her alone.
Hey honey.
Why do I need a baby-sitter?
Because you're nine years old. You're not a geezer yet.
It's 1976, mom. Times are changing. Nine years old isn't what it used to be. I think I'm ready to get a moped.
We're not buying you a moped, Walter. Stick with the bike... and be home before dark.
Fine. Walter rides off down the street.
Hello? There is silence on the other end of the line.
Hello? A MOMENT OF SILENCE... then the caller disconnects. Norma hangs up the phone and starts unloading the groceries. The box sits on the table... but she takes no notice of it.
How's the commute back to Richmond?
Not too bad. Maybe an hour and twenty minutes.
Tell Norma I said hello. Wendell watches him walk across the lawn to the parking lot... approaching his car. He lights a cigarette and takes a drag... then looks at his watch. INSERT: His watch shows that it is 4:58 PM.
Mrs. Lewis?
Yeah.
My name is Arlington Steward. Her eyes light up, as she remembers the name and the box. Arlington then rotates his body... revealing the RIGHT SIDE of his face. Norma's eyes widen in horror at what she sees. Nearly all of the right side of his face from his cheekbone to his lower jaw has been burned away. His rear MOLARS and GUMS are exposed beneath the absence of tissue that is supposed to conceal them. Norma immediately feels a strange connection... a deep sympathy for him and the pain he must have endured.
I assume you received the box that I left on your doorstep. His speech has a slight impediment from the burn that extends to the right side of his mouth.
Oh, yes. Yes we did.
And you retrieved the button unit inside of the box. Norma smiles. He smiles back at her.
The button unit. That's what you call it?
Indeed. May I come in?
Sure. Norma turns and leads him back into the kitchen. She retrieves the button unit from the table.
So what it this thing? I assume you're trying to sell me something?
Well... in a way, yes. I do have an offer to make.
Yeah? What are you selling?
A financial opportunity. Arlington gestures toward the table with his briefcase.
May I? She nods. He places the briefcase down on the table. He takes the button unit from her and sets it down on the kitchen table. They both sit down. He then withdraws a SMALL YELLOW ENVELOPE from his suit jacket pocket.
inside of this envelope is a key. Arlington opens the envelope and withdraws a small METAL KEY.
This is the key that opens the glass dome of the button unit. Arlington then inserts the key into a small HORIZONTAL SLOT at the top edge. He turns the key, and the LID that houses the GLASS DOME pops lose. The METAL BUTTON is now exposed.
If you push the button, one of two things will happen.
Then, you will receive a payment of two-hundred thousand dollars... tax free. Arlington opens the briefcase. Inside are neatly stacked rows of ONE-HUNDRED DOLLAR BILLS.
The money will be delivered to you in cash. Norma covers her mouth... shocked at the sight of so much money.
Are you for real? Arlington smiles back at her.
Mrs. Lewis, I can assure you that the offer is real.
Who do you work for?
The guarantee of payment has several restrictions. One... I am not permitted to disclose any information about to the identity of my employers.
You have until five o'clock tomorrow evening to make your decision whether or not to push the button. At that time, I will return to retrieve the button unit from you. It will be re-programmed and the offer will be made to someone else. Arlington places the key back into the envelope, seals it with crisp precision, and hands it over to her. He then closes the briefcase and stands up to leave.
Until then... a good day to you, Mrs. Lewis. He nods his head and turns toward the foyer.
Wait a minute... you're just going to leave me with this thing.
My name is Arlington Steward, and I can assure you that this is no joke. The offer is real, but I am not at liberty to disclose any more information than I already have. He withdraws a BUSINESS CARD and hands it to her.
Good day. He heads down the walk toward his car. She looks down at the card and sees that his name is printed in an embossed BLACK FONT:
What do you want?
I'm sorry. I just wanted to tell you... that I think your mom is beautiful. Walter just stares at her in silence... wanting to forgive her.
Hello?
Hey mom.
Hey honey. What's up?
Nothing... I just... The CAMERA continues to zoom out, revealing her husband, JIM BURNS  laid out in a recliner, watching television.
Is something wrong?
No... something just happened and...
What?
Nothing. I don't want to talk about it right now.
Alright.  Jim... you gotta get ready.
Alright. He sits up and moves toward the stairs.
Wait until you see the spread tonight.
Hmmm. I think they're spending more on their wedding than we did on our house.
Is your foot acting up again?
A little, yeah. That damn bone. The skin from my leg, it's not as tough as it should be.
You know he's gonna be there tonight.
Who?
Dr. Stupid. Norma takes this in... remembering...
Well... it's been what... thirteen years? Bound to run into each other at some point, right?
As she steps into an elegant COCKTAIL DRESS... we see the deep square shaped SCARS on the inside of her LEFT THIGH.
What's this?
A little gift from Dr. Rex Morgan. She opens the present and retrieves the PROSTHESIS.
Oh my god!
It's a material they developed for the new shuttle chairs. It'll absorb the pressure of your foot and re-distribute it across the entire surface area. She then slides her disfigured foot into the shoe... and begins to walk around the room.
Oh my God, Rex... how'd you do it?
I just figured out a way to make it better. She crosses the room and gives him a hug and a kiss.
I don't know what I'd do without you.
Merry Christmas, June.
Did Mr. Steward show up? Norma sees the box sitting there and immediately grabs it off the table.
Yeah... what's it all about. Did he show up?
Yeah... I'll tell you about it in the car. We're running late. Norma leans down and kisses Walter on the cheek.
We'll be home late... your bedtime is ten. Dana watches them go... her eyes transfixed on the box in Norma's hands.
And before I could ask him anything else... he got in his car... and he pulled off.
Did you get the license plate?
No.
Your dad is cop, Norma. Always get the license plate number.
I was little overwhelmed, Arthur.
Somewhere in the world... someone you do not know will die.
Those were his exact words.
Did he say how they would die?
No.
And he showed you the cash.
Yeah. He said it was two-hundred thousand. It looked real to me.
What did he look like?
You don't want to know. I think he's a burn victim. Poor thing... half of his face is gone.
Really?
I think maybe he's a life insurance salesman. Maybe that's what it is. It's some kind of survey. We push the button and he offers us a discount on a two-hundred thousand dollar life insurance policy. Joke's on us.
Did you bring the key with you? She hands it to him. He takes the key and inserts it... opening the glass dome. He then takes his INDEX FINGER and places it on the button.
What the hell are you doing?!
No!
You think it's for real. She takes the box back from him.
I don't know. He was... he seemed very sure of himself. If it's some kind of survey... then... he's a really good salesman because I believe him. I believe that he might give us that money.
Do then you think he's a maniac and he might go kill someone?
I don't know. Arthur takes the box back from her. He shakes it... then flips it over. He sees that there is a SINGLE SCREW on the bottom corner that holds it together.
Open the glove compartment. There's a philips head screwdriver in there. She opens the GLOVE COMPARTMENT and retrieves a PHILLIPS HEAD SCREWDRIVER for him.
What are you doing? Arthur is now unscrewing the bottom of the box.
I'm gonna see what's inside of it. He removes the screw... and sees that the wooden base rotates on a ROD MOUNT on the opposite corner. INSIDE... it is completely empty.
Nothing... no transmitter... no radio. If we pushed the button right now... he'd have no way of knowing. She takes the box from him and closes the dome.
Let me hold the key.
Why do you get to hold it?
Because you'll lose it Norma. You can't hold your liquor.
Neither can you.
What if someone takes your purse? I have pockets. Let me hold it.
Fine. Norma goes through her purse and hands the small envelope to him. They move toward the entrance to the country club.
Jesus. All this for a rehearsal dinner... Deborah is so lucky. Remember our rehearsal dinner?
Yeah. Keg party in our back yard. Susan and Jim are standing with ARTHUR LEWIS, SR  and BEV LEWIS . Arthur and Norma go over to greet them. The CAMERA drifts over to a PLACARD that reads:
Merry Christmas... Walter takes the package and begins to remove the wrapping paper. Inside is a COMIC BOOK. He pulls it out of the wrapping... and on the cover is an illustration of a DARK FIGURE walking upon a RED DESERT SURFACE. The title is: THE MAN FROM MARS Walter looks at the cover in awe.
Thanks Dana. My dad is gonna love this.
When are you gonna cut this hair?
Never.
Uh-huh.
Are you Leonard or Skynard?
Well honey... they're never gonna let you into outer space with these sideburns.
They're all wearing them that way now, Bev.
Outer space? Is someone planning on departing the surface of the earth?
Nathan! Arthur stands up and gives him a hug.
It's been years. How have you been?
I've been better... I mean, I used to have legs... The table goes silent... Susan looks as though she might start to cry.
Sorry... morbid humor. What's this talk about outer space?
Arthur has been working at Nasa.
He helped design the camera that photographed the Mars surface. Arthur puts his hands on the back of Nathan's wheelchair.
Nathan and I are gonna go grab a drink... He begins to wheel Nathan toward the bar.
Arthur made me a new prosthesis for my foot. Some space age formula... it's incredible.
Can he make Nathan a pair of prosthetic legs?
Can you believe it? I survive eighteen months crawlling through the Vietnam jungle and not one bullet so much as grazes my body.
Pretty damn sad... losing the legs that way, but I always thought it was Karmic retribution for what I did to Norma.
What'd you ever do to Norma?
I dropped that barbell on her foot when we were kids. That's why she went to get that x-ray. If it wasn't for me... she'd still have all her toes.
You can't think of it that way.
Why not? It's the truth.
You didn't leave the x-ray machine on, Dr. Stupid did.
Yeah, but my mistake sent her to Dr. Stupid... so that makes me culpable in the eyes of Buddha.
You're no more culpable than the company that manufactured the barbell. Stop punishing yourself. Nathan smiles in appreciation and takes a long swig of Jack Daniels.
You know he's here.
Who?
Dr. Stupid. Nathan nods his head across the room... where DR. EARL STUPE is seated at a table with his wife.
Dr. Earl Stupe. He's still got a practice over on the west end. Arthur looks over at him... for a moment they make brief eye contact... and Stupe quickly looks away.
I wonder if he even recognizes us.
I'm sure he does.
I can't believe they still let him practice medicine.
You gotta let it go. You gotta learn to forgive and forget.
I'd be willing to forgive him if he would've just admitted his negligence under oath. The bastard lied... said it was the x-ray machine that malfunctioned. SENATOR GRIFFITH POWELL  and his son EDWARD POWELL , approach. Edward is the husband-to-be.
Well Senator! You look very spiffy tonight!
Now that the mid-term elections are over... the smile lines are starting to fade. Powell puts on a fake smile, grabs Jim's hand and they both wave... poking fun at politician behavior.
Well... we all voted! Powell looks over at Norma.
Norma... right?
That's right. He shakes her hand... fascinated by her.
And you're married to the aspiring astronaut.
That's right. There he is right over there. She points over to Arthur the bar. Powell looks over at him... and they briefly make eye contact.
Walter?
Yeah?
Will you take me down to the basement? I want to see your dad's darkroom.
Is that Mars?
Yep.
What did your dad have to do with the Viking?
He helped design the camera. Walter points to a PLASTIC PROTOTYPE MODEL of the VIKING LANDER mounted on a third WORK BENCH at the end of the room. A model of the MARS SURFACE has been re-created and painted with exacting detail.
He's making the model for the science museum. Walter points to one of TWO CAMERAS mounted on the front of the SPIDER-SHAPED LANDING MODULE. The camera is cylindrical and features a VERTICAL SLOT on the front.
They designed the camera to photograph in 360 degrees. It scans in the image one line at a time... and takes about five minutes to complete one revolution.
How do they get the images back to earth?
Radio transmission. They figured out a way to interpret the scan lines and then print them onto film.
How long does it take to transmit back to earth?
About ten hours. Dana looks over at the wall and sees a NEW YORK TIMES FRONT PAGE from September with a large image of MARS on it.
They tested the camera in the parking lot at Langley last year. Walter points to another FRAMED PHOTOGRAPH on the wall. In the black & white photograph, we see a group of FIFTY NASA EMPLOYEES assembled in a long line in a PARKING LOT. Walter points to his father standing in the group.
There's my dad. He moves his finger across the line of smiling faces... ARTHUR appears for a SECOND TIME in the row.
And there he is again. Walter then moves his finger down toward the right side of the photo... ARTHUR LEWIS appears for a third time.
And there he is again. Dana looks close at the photo.
How'd he do that?
Because the camera takes five minutes to scan in 360 degrees, he waited until the camera passed over him then jumped ahead in the circle. The CAMERA moves in closer to the photograph... to the THIRD VERSION of ARTHUR LEWIS.
Your dad sounds pretty clever.
My dad is more than just clever, Dana. My dad is the coolest man who ever walked the face of the earth. The CAMERA ZOOMS in close to Arthur's face... then tips down to another MAN kneeling on the pavement directly below him. It is ARLINGTON STEWARD... smiling at the camera. His face is normal... no evidence of any burn visible...
Two-hundred thousand dollars is a lot of money, Arthur.
What would we do with that kind of money?
We could get out of Richmond... move to California.
Then we could cross the border into Mexico if they ever came after us.
You can't arrest someone for pushing a button, Arthur. It's not a weapon. It's not a gun. We wouldn't be culpable... not in a court of law.
What if it's someone's baby?
What if it's some murderer on death row in China?
What if it's our neighbor across the street. Do you know our neighbors across the street? Have you ever met them?
Yeah. Doug and Donna.
Hmmm. I haven't met Doug or Donna.
I know you better than you know yourself.
Do you know Walter?
Even better than I know you. They spin around on the dance floor.
It's just a stupid prank, Norma.
Life insurance. Arthur gazes across the ballroom toward the bar. Nathan sits there alone... finishing his drink.
Dana... Dana's eyes slowly open.
Arthur will drive you home, okay?
I have my bike... and my house isn't far from here.
Where's Walter?
He's asleep upstairs. Arthur hands Dana a ten dollar bill.
Are you sure you don't need a ride?
I'm sure.
Good night, Dana. Dana exits through the front door. Norma stands up and moves toward the foyer.
Can you turn off the Christmas tree lights?
I like leaving them on.
It's a fire hazard.
It keeps the Christmas spirit alive while we sleep.
We could die.
Everyone dies eventually, Norma. She stares at the tree.
Fine. Leave them on. She goes upstairs... leaving him alone with the glowing tree. Arthur looks down at the coffee table. The box sits there... taunting him. He retrieves the KEY ENVELOPE from his pocket and stares at it. He then walks over to the wall and unplugs the Christmas tree lights.
The huge man watches them intensely.
We'll never see that much money.
Why do you say that?
Be realistic Arthur... you work for the government.
Maybe not forever.
We'll never leave Richmond.
Do you want to move?
We have to put Walter in public school.
Why?
Collegiate withdrew the faculty tuition discount.
No...
Yeah. They did.
No...
We'd have to enroll him at Hopewell. Unless...
Unless what, Norma? She reaches out and holds her finger over the button... thinking. She then picks up the business card with her other hand, flips it over and stares at the number.
Are you gonna call him?
Yeah. Norma begins to dial the number on the card.
Hello Mrs. Lewis.
Is this Mr. Steward?
Of course it is.
How did you know it was me... are you tracing this call?
Time is running out... have you made your decision? Norma looks to Arthur... who paces around the kitchen.
If we push the button... are you going to murder someone?
When you push the button... somewhere in this world... someone you do not know... will die. I never mentioned the word murder.
How will they die?
I'm not at liberty to disclose that information. Besides... it would spoil the fun.
Are you selling life insurance?
I am not at liberty to disclose any information about my employers. I can only remind you that the offer is real...  .and it expires in approximately eight hours.
Why do you do this? What do you get out of this deal?
Absolutely nothing. The reward is for you.
Is there anything else, Mrs. Lewis? I have an appointment to make and I don't want to be late.
Can we meet in person? I'd like to see you... before we make our final decision.
Why... I'm looking at you right now, Norma.
Excuse me?
The grey spotted owl... in your back yard. Norma turns and looks out the large picture window in the kitchen nook. Outside in the back yard, an OWL is perched on a planter. The large bird sits motionless... its large SAUCER EYES do not blink. Norma stares at it for a long moment... transfixed. Arthur paces around the kitchen... facing in the other direction. Outside... the owl flies away before Arthur notices it.
Hello? There is no response.
Mr. Steward? Are you still there? Norma hangs up the phone. She stares at the box... then at her husband, as he sits down across from her.
What do you want to do Norma?
We're gonna have to pull Walter out of that school.
Then push it.
I'm scared to.
Well... if you don't push it... then I will.
Ladies first. She then reaches out and presses down on the button with her index finger.
911 emergency... how may I direct your call? The CAMERA moves in closer...
Excuse me? You need to slow down... I can't understand what you're saying. She listens to the voice on the other end of the line.
So you heard loud screaming and then a gun shot.
What is your address?
The CAMERA moves in toward her face.
Honey... I need you to back away from the door... I'M GONNA HAVE TO
okay... The Officer then kicks the door down.
There's no turning back now. Seconds later... THE DOORBELL RINGS. Both Norma and Arthur jump in their seats.
She opens the door. Arlington stands there smiling... briefcase in hand.
Hello, Mrs. Lewis.
Hi.
Do you have the button unit?
Uhh... yeah... it's in the kitchen. Norma goes to the kitchen to retrieve the box, leaving Arthur alone with Arlington.
And you must be Mr. Lewis.
Norma returns with the box and hands it over to him.
And the key?
Oh... sorry... Norma reaches into her pocket and retrieves the small envelope and places it in his hand.
Thank you. Arlington then opens the BRIEFCASE and shows it to them. Inside... the bills are stacked neatly in rows.
Two-hundred thousand. You can count it if you like. Arthur takes the briefcase from him and then closes.
Thanks... we trust your word. Arlington offers him a broad smile.
As you should. He then turns to leave.
You said before that the box is re- programmed...
Yes.
So now what? Are you gonna go and make the offer to someone else?
Why yes. That-'s how it works, Mrs. Lewis.
I got his license plate.
What are you thinking, Norma?
I don't know. Arthur paces around... thinking. He then opens the briefcase and starts counting through the money.
Did he mean that we're next? Is that what he meant?
I don't know.
Your daughter is on line two.
Alright. He picks up the phone.
Norma...
Hey dad...
What's going on...
I need a favor.
Sure... what do you need?
I need you to run a license plate for me. Someone just came by the house... and we think he might...  He just seemed real suspicious and Arthur got the license plate and I need you to run it.
Okay honey... you need me to send someone over?
No... if you could just run the plate and find out whose car it is.
I'll call you back in ten minutes.
We ran those plates for you, sarge. Jim takes the document from him. It is a blow-up of a driver's license that belongs to ARLINGTON STEWARD. In the photo... his face is not injured.
Hello?
The car is listed to an Arlington J. Steward... do you want his address and phone number?
Yeah. Norma begins to write them down.
Hello?
Hi... I'm trying to reach an Arlington Steward.
Yes.
I assume that you pushed the button.
Yes.
There is the myth of Prometheus and Pandora... Prometheus gave Pandora a box... and warned her not to open it. But she did not listen, and when Pandora opened the box...
she unleashed a torrent of sorrow and misery. Norma stares at Arthur... unable to speak.
Your descent into oblivion has begun. The question remains... what will the cuckold of a husband do... to prevent the death of his beloved Pandora? Arthur stares at Norma... unable to speak.
Because really... Mr. Lewis... do you really know your wife?
Who is this?
I am the mother of Prometheus... and if you want to save yourself... I suggest that you go to the Richmond Public Library, and find the book with the following call number: F2988.34 Norma is writing the number out on a piece of paper. She disconnects. Arthur steps into the kitchen.
Norma...
Arthur...
Tell me this isn't real. Tell me this isn't happening.
This isn't real. This isn't happening.
I don't think I believe you, Norma.
We're off to run an errand. Be back in a few hours, okay?
Okay. He watches as they drive off.
There was owl... in our back yard.
An owl?
He said it was his owl.
Are you hiding anything else from me, Norma?
Norma shows it to Arthur.
No exit.
it's pronounced Sartre. Jean-Paul Sartre. The French existentialist. She begins to thumb through the pages of the play.
Never read it.
It's a play... I read it in high school. It's about three strangers who find themselves trapped in a room together for all of eternity. They've quickly discover that they've all been sent to hell. Norma turns back to the inside cover of the book. Someone has written in crisp penmanship:
Hi... we're looking for an archival Times-Dispatch from September of this year. She offers them a warm smile.
Microfiche.
Arlington Steward... I remember the name now. He used to work at
Alright... the first photo should come down off the server in less than a minute.
Standing on the trestle several yards away from the antennae is ARLINGTON STEWARD. He is wearing a rain slicker and is face appears normal. He carries a walkie-talkie in his right hand.
Touchdown.
An engineer at the NASA Langley research center was struck by lightning yesterday evening...
He hears the cheering from the walkie-talkie. Thunder rumbles in the distance. Moments later... a MASSIVE LIGHTNING BOLT STRIKES THE TOP
Jesus Christ. Bevilacqua and the others begin to sprint across the lawn toward the base of the structure to the ELEVATOR DOOR at the bottom of the elevator shaft on the south end of the module.
The man received third degree burns over fifty percent of his body...
He got struck by lightning on the night we received the transmission from Mars.
Cahill emerges from inside the building and rushes out to the parking lot. Bevilacqua and the others are approaching.
What happened?
The module got hit!
Lightning?
Yeah. Steward was up there on the trestle. He got burned real bad! The CAMERA moves in toward Bevilacqua's face... his eyes filled with anguish and despair.
Our fugitive is named Robert Bevilacqua. He shot and killed his wife at their residence on Cary Street earlier today. We believe that he escaped on foot... and could be armed and dangerous. The CAMERA moves across a line of POLICE OFFICERS... listening...
Mr. Bevilacqua is an employee at NASA... and he is a former Marine who served in Vietnam. He may very well be armed and dangerous...
Bevilacqua... Bevilacqua turns to face him.
Wendell. They hug one another.
You designed it?
Yeah. Cahill told me to...
This what you were looking for, sir? Cahill looks stares at the blue-print... possessed. A DROP OF BLOOD falls from his right nostril and lands on it.
Yes. Thank you Wendell.
Cahill stands at a work table with Arlington. There are THREE BUTTON UNITS laid out on the table. Arlington begins to place them inside a leather bag. Cahill then hands Arlington a FILE.
You're not gonna hurt these boys, are you?
Any harm that comes to them will be their own doing. Arlington takes the bag and moves toward the hangar entrance.
There's a list... and they've all got a wife and one child. Bevilacqua thumbs through the list of NASA dossiers. He sees Arthur Lewis among them.
Did you kill your wife? Bevilacqua just stares at him... on the verge of tears. He slides an ENVELOPE across the table.
This is a confession letter that I wrote... it explains everything that happened with Steward and the box. Keep it... cause if I don't make it... this might clear my name one day. Bevilacqua looks at the KENNETH WELLER dossier.
This guy Weller is gonna be next. Did you get their phone number?
No. They're not listed. Just an old address south of Petersburg. What are you gonna do?
I don't know. I need a car. I might be able to save them... and this guy Arthur Lewis... Wendell thinks to himself... then retrieves a set of KEYS from his pocket.
These are the keys to my cousin's pick-up truck. It's not registered. It's parked in front of my house over on Byrd street. Take it...
Thank you, Wendell.
Sir... there's a Mr. Steward here to see you.
Send him in.
He stands in profile... then turns toward the CAMERA in the same manner as his TWIN in the police station. His burned face forms a deformed smile...
Officer Burns... my name is Reston Steward.
Officer Burns... my name is Reston Steward.
I see you have made an inquiry about my brother Arlington.
. an inquiry about my brother Arlington.
Yes. Apparently he made an appearance at my daughter's house. Your brother works for NASA?
Yes. My brother works at the Langley research facility.
With my son-in-law.
That's right.
And may I ask... what do you do, Mr. Steward?
I work for the CIA.
I see. He then hands Jim one of his cards. Jim looks at it.
Reston rises to his feet... putting his hat on his head.
I assure you my brother is of no threat to your daughter. However, the man you're looking for... Robert Bevilacqua. He is very dangerous... and he might try and contact your son-in-law or your daughter.
Really.
Yes.
Help us find Bevilacqua. If and when you do... please call us. Jim stares at the business card as Reston bids him good-bye.
General Nathan Teague at the Pentagon. Get him on the phone immediately. The Agent opens the car door, and Reston steps inside.
You alright, Norma?
I feel like I'm gonna faint... She stands up to leave.
Where are you going?
Bathroom. Norma moves.taward the main library... leaving Arthur alone.
A shadow passes across the wall... and Arthur senses someone lurking over his shoulder. He turns to see that it is the LIBRARIAN. Something about her is different... she seems possessed.
The myth of Prometheus tells the story of a God who created man.
When Prometheus flew too close to the sun... his wings caught fire... and he fell to the earth. Arthur remembers her voice from the phone call.
Was that you on the phone? You're his mother...
He finds your wife fascinating... Mr. Lewis. Her name is ELIZABETH STEWARD.
Have a seat... Mrs. Lewis. She looks around... realizing that the library is now completely empty.
Don't be afraid. I may look like a monster... but-I can assure you that I am... only human. His face contorts into a broad smile.
Please... sit down.
My name is Clymene, mother of five. Prometheus, Atlas, Menoetius, Logan, and Epimetheus. A drop of blood begins to ooze from her left eye as she speaks.
Epimetheus is the twin brother of Prometheus, but he has become his brother's slave... the victim of his cunning and deceit.
Tell me Norma... when was the exact moment that you realized you loved your husband? There is something about him that now makes her feel safe... willing to tell him anything.
About five seconds after I laid eyes on him.
And when was this?
In college. My sophomore year. He was a year younger than me. We dated for two weeks and then... She stops herself.
You became frightened about something.
Then I thought... this is too good to be true. When he sees my mangled foot... he's gonna be out the door in ten seconds and he's gonna go tell all his friends.
How did he respond when you showed him?
We were at the drive-in... and he caught a glimpse of the scars on my thigh. He asked me what happened... and I felt this sense of dread.
Why?
Because you can just see the glow disappear in someone's eyes when they discover something about you that they just can't stomach.
Did the glow disappear from his eyes?
No. Not Arthur. He was different than the others. He... said that... my scars were cool.
I have worked at this library for forty years. Since 1936, I have read a book a day. 23455 books I have read.
Wow.
Of all of the books I have read in my lifetime... this is my son's favorite.
No. She reaches out with her hand.
Take my hand... and I'll show you.
I'm not gonna touch you, lady.
And what emotion did you feel when you first laid eyes upon me, Norma? She thinks silently for a moment.
I felt.. . She stops herself... afraid of how he might respond if she is honest with him.
You felt what?
I felt...
Pity?
Love.
You felt love for me?
Yes.
Why?
Because of my foot. Because of my disfigurement. I thought of all the pain I've felt in my life because of it... the physical pain... the emotional pain.
I thought about what it would be like to have that pain magnified and projected onto my face... onto a part of my body that I can't hide with a shoe. There are tears welling in her eyes.
I saw all of that pain in your face and I understood it... and I felt an overwhelming feeling of love for you because I knew I'd never feel sorry for myself or my goddamn foot ever again.
Take my hand, son.
You called me a cuckold. You made a statement... made an implication to me that my wife was going to be killed.
Take my hand, Norma... She stares at him, unable to move... then takes his hand...
Arlington stands at the end of the corridor. He is wearing a TUXEDO, portraying the VALET character from Sartre's No Exit. The CAMERA pans around to reveal Arthur... walking slowly down the corridor. Arlington opens a DOOR at the end of the corridor and leads Arthur into a DRAWING ROOM... recreated from Sartre's play.
The CAMERA then drifts up and moves through the GLASS PANELS at the top of the room...
Norma... Her eyes open. She looks around... disoriented.
Norma... what happened?
I don't know. Norma notices Walter standing in the doorway.
You came home an hour ago.
We did? She sits up in bed... looking at the clock radio. It is 6PM.
Neither of you said a word... you just walked into the house like two zombies. Went straight to bed. Arthur and Norma stare at one another, trying to make sense of what has just transpired.
The wedding. It starts in an hour. We've got to get ready.
What's going on?
I don't know.
This is about the box... isn't it?
Yeah.
Did you push the button?
Your mother did.
What happens when you push the button?
I don't know.
Yes you do. You're just not telling me. Arthur finishes with his tie. He notices something on the floor of his son's bedroom. It is the MARS COMIC BOOK. He picks it up and stares at the dark figure looming on the cover.
Where did you get this?
Dana. She gave it to me. Arthur begins to page through the comic book.
STROBES OF WHITE LIGHT begin flicker from beneath the surface... as though some unseen SOURCE OF ENERGY is emanating from down below. Arlington slowly rises to his feet and turns to leave.
Alright... they are entering the building from the south entrance on fourteenth street.
Excuse me... may I help you?
Where is he?
Uhhh... he's in a meeting.
I need to see him... now.
He's here... I don't know what to do. Powell turns to face her.
Let him in. The Receptionist goes back out... and within moments... Arlington and Bud enter the office. The Receptionist closes the door and leaves them alone.
Hello Senator.
Call me Arlington.
Okay... Arlington. Bud just stares at the Senator... showing no sign of emotion.
Do you have my money?
I've given you four-hundred thousand already. How much more are you going to need?
As much as it takes. Powell sighs out loud... irritated.
First the nose... Powell turns around and there is now BLOOD GUSHING from his nose...
Then the ears... BLOOD begins to ooze from both ears... as he covers his face... feeling the warm fluid rush from every orifice...
Then the eyes...
Please! I've got it right here! Powell reaches beneath his desk and retrieves a large briefcase. He places it on the desk.
It's all there! Two-hundred thousand! You can count it if you want!
Bud... Bud grabs the briefcase from the desk and pops it open. He sees that it is filled with stacks of cash.
You tell that sniper you have perched on that roof next door that I can smell his cheap cologne.
I think it might be Old Spice. The Sniper smells his shoulder.
Norma clutches the copy of No Exit.
You and Walter were there in the room. You were wearing a black dress, identical to the one you have on now.
Walter had a blindfold on.
They didn't have lids...
Yeah.
I had the same dream. Arthur's mind is racing... he glances through the crowd nervously, afraid that they are being watched.
What's the last thing you remember?
The library. He was asking me all of these questions... about you... about our marriage.
Alright girls... time to line up! Susan hands Arthur the book and goes off with the other
Do you, Deborah Burns, take Edward Powell, to be your'-lawfully wedded husband, 'til death do you part?
I do. Norma looks over to Arthur, as he sits in the congregation. He is not paying attention to the wedding. He is reading Sartre's play... The CAMERA zooms into a close-up of the page describing the final scene in the play No Exit:
GARCIN: [looks over at the two women, and joins in the laughter]: For ever, and ever, and ever. INSERT: Arthur's eyes... reading...
ACROSS THE SQUARE... Bud Wall lurks within the rows of Christmas Trees. He spies Arthur and Walter mingling with his parents and Senator Powell, who has TWO SECRET SERVICEMEN standing close by.
The play tells the story of uhree people, condemned to hell. They are to remain in a second empire drawing room for all of eternity. He closes the book... his mind dissecting what he has just read.
They soon discover that their eyelids are missing... and for all eternity they will be unable to sleep. Norma remembers most of the play from high school.
There are no mirrors... so they will never be able to see their own reflection... but only the faces of their tormentors.
This is Sartre's vision of hell.
Because Hell... is other people. The look into one another's eyes... Norma sees a WAITER pass by with a tray of CHAMPAGNE. They both take a glass. Jim crosses the lawn to greet them.
Arthur... can I speak with you privately for a moment?
Sure. Arthur walks away with Jim toward the edge of a PATIO that overlooks the whole party.
And do you know this fella? Robert Bevilacqua?
Yeah... I know him. He works at
Do you know his wife?
No...
Well... he shot and killed his wife yesterday morning.
No...
Yeah... He shot her point blank in the chest in his kitchen. Arthur takes a deep breath. He isn't feeling well.
This Bevilacqua fella... if he tries to contact you or Norma... you have to call me immediately, you understand?
Yeah. Of course. Arthur looks down at the lawn. Norma is staring back at them.
My little sister once asked me... what's the best thing about being married? Norma looks across the lawn to the table where Arthur is seated, next to Walter and their parents.
I told her that... it's knowing that for the rest of your life you'll never feel alone.
That is... until you get divorced. There is laughter from the crowd. Deborah blushes... leaning her head on her new husband's shoulder.
Or... until he decides to kill you. More laughter.
Why did you say that?
Say what?
In your speech. That joke about me killing you.
I don't know... I thought it was funny. Guess I've had too much champagne.
Did your dad tell you about Robert Bevilacqua?
No.
He shot his wife yesterday morning. Did you know his wife?
No. Norma is still searching for some other explanation.
What if it's all a test for the aspiring astronauts?
What do you mean?
A psychological test. They want to see how you'll respond to a moral dilemma... the fate of a human life... determined by the push of a single button. Think of the men on the Apollo thirteen mission... sound familiar? They turn slowly on the dance floor... Arthur closes his eyes... his mind racing... A VOICE breaks through the music...
May I cut in? Arthur and Norma turn to see a MAN standing there... It is DR. EARL STUPE.
I would like to dance with your wife. Do you mind? Arthur glares at Dr. Stupe.
It's okay Arthur... Arthur looks at him... then back at Norma. His face has gone pale and he looks for a moment as though he might faint on the dance floor.
Dad! What's going on?
I.. I'm gonna be sick Walter... He places his hand on his son's head for a brief moment and then stumbles up the stairs. ON THE DANCE FLOOR... Norma is now slow dancing with Dr. Stupe.
I know what they call me. Dr. Stupid. My patients... the ones who will still see me... they find out what I did and they stop calling.
I'm sorry for that. I can't control what people say.
I am Dr. Stupid now. Someone wrote it on my windshield with soap once. I figure it must have been a relative... a friend of yours.
Yes. You have my forgiveness, Earl. People make mistakes... and if they seek forgiveness... they should be forgiven.
There is that old cliche... that the lord works in mysterious ways. Well... I have met the lord. I have spoken to him in my dreams. And it brought me back to that day in my office when you arrived with a fractured foot... some thirteen years ago.
an essential event in the cycle of purgatory and its inevitable conclusion. Norma pulls away from him. Blood drains out of his nose...
For when the cycle of purgatory concludes... there is nothing left but a barren wasteland of rock and sand... a deafening wind and a cold, dry winter. ABOVE... on the MARBLE RAILING... the OWL is perched on the ledge... watching... ON THE DANCE FLOOR... Stupe retrieves a PISTOL from his pocket... and raises his eyes to meet those of his dance partner.
I am sorry my dear... Stupe takes the pistol... places it against his temple... and pulls the trigger. BLOOD SPRAYS across the dance floor... some of it on Norma's face. PEOPLE BEGIN TO SCREAM AND THE ENTIRE WEDDING ERUPTS
You can still save yourself. It's too late for me... but you can still save yourself.
Bevilacqua...
Follow me out through the kitchen. I have a truck waiting...
The CAMERA drifts back toward the ROCK PILLAR that stands at the entrance to the house. Arlington is standing there in front of it. He is wearing his black hat... pulled down low. He begins to follow Walter toward the square...
Walter?
I just spotted Bevilacqua... he's in a white pick-up truck. Potential hostage situation.
Walter...
Hey. Bud arrives next to her.
Is everything alright?
No.
Come with us. She takes his hand and they move north back toward the church.
My wife.
Yeah... me too. I wasn't even home. She decided to push it when I wasn't around to stop her.
And now she's dead. Did you kill her?
I don't want to talk about it.
Where are you taking me? Bevilacqua retrieves a NASA DOSSIER from the dashboard and hands it to Arthur.
Kenneth Weller. You know him?
Name sounds familiar. Does he work at Langley too?
Yep. He's next. Him and his wife... they've got the box now. Suddenly... BLUE AND RED LIGHTS appear behind them... followed by the sound of a SIREN.
What are you doing?
I'm not gonna let them get me... Arthur... we've got to get to Kenneth Weller. We've got to break the chain... or your wife is gonna die!
How is she going to die?
You're going to kill her! Bevilacqua swerves into the ONCOMING TRAFFIC LANE to pass a car in front of them. A LARGE 18-WHEELER TRUCK is barreling toward them. Bevilacqua pulls the truck back into the right lane.
Jesus! You're gonna get us killed!
Did Steward take you to the library? Did you meet his mother... the librarian?
Yeah.
Did she tell you about Prometheus?
Yeah...
Steward has a twin brother... and he works for the CIA. UP AHEAD... Arthur sees FOUR MORE POLICE CRUISERS with their lights flashing. They have formed a ROADBLOCK. Bevilacqua lowers his foot onto the accelerator... refusing to back down.
This is purgatory... we're living in purgatory...
A BULLET explodes the right front tire... The truck swerves and FLIPS OVER onto one side... tumbling over and over along the interstate in a horrific crash. ONCOMING CARS swerve into ditches... and the white truck comes sliding to a stop on the wet pavement. The CAMERA slowly approaches the smoking wreckage... catching a glimpse of Bevilacqua... his face covered in blood. Arthur remains hidden from sight.
Walter? A BLACK SEDAN pulls up next to her... and Reston steps out of the car. Norma locks eyes with him... recognizing his face...
Mrs. Lewis? Norma Lewis?
Yes.
My name is Reston Steward. I work for the CIA.
Yeah? Where is my son? Where is my husband?
Please... get into the car. Norma stares at him in disbelief... as he opens the back door and gestures inside.
Robert Bevilacqua's DEAD BODY is now on a stretcher. Jim looks down at him briefly... then turns to another OFFICER on the scene.
Where's Arthur?
They took him away in an ambulance.
Here... hold this against your forehead. It'll keep your head from swelling. Arthur takes the ice pack and places it against his head.
Thanks.
I think it might have been a miracle. The EMS Technician shakes his head in disbelief.
What?
That car accident. I've never seen someone walk away from an accident like that.
Are you able to walk, son?
Yes, sir.
Please step out of the ambulance.
Arthur!
Norma! She hugs him... neither has slept in two days.
Where's Walter?
I don't know. Reston steps forward.
My brother has taken your son... but he assures me that he is alive and well. Reston tries to comfort them with a smile.
Take a walk with us. Norma and Arthur begin to walk with Reston, Teague and Cahill toward the diner entrance.
Are you familiar with the myth of Prometheus?
Yeah.
In the 1940s... when NASA was formed, we began developing, in secret, a project that we dubbed the Prometheus Effect.
Projecting fictional scenarios about how we would respond, if and when we came into contact with an alien intelligence.
If the intelligence had hostile intent... or if it began to somehow display proof of its ability to destroy us, we would have a system in place to begin negotiating with it in secret.
The goal of Prometheus is to maintain coexistence with this life- form, and eventually achieve peace with it, so that its power can be harnessed, developed and applied in such a manner that will benefit the human race. Arthur notices that Cahill is holding a folder in his right hand.
On the night of September 3rd, as the server was downloading images from the Viking camera system that you helped design... we experienced an electrical surge from a bolt of lightning. As they arrive at the entrance to the diner, Cahill shows Arthur a blurry black and white photograph.
An anomaly in the series of Viking images produced this photograph of the Mars surface. The photo appears to be a ghost-like TRAIL OF WHITE LIGHT streaking across the martian landscape. Teague nods toward the diner window.
According to... it... and whatever it is... Arthur notices Arlington sitting alone in a booth inside the diner... waiting...
A ghost... an apparition... a methane compound imbedded in pulse of electricity...
If the human spirit is assigned a specific bandwidth upon conception... twins... would provide it with a dual bandwidth carrier...
My camera... took this photo...
We've run the data sequence off the server more than a thousand times. Each time... this one photo in the sequence comes out of the dark room just like this. We can't explain why. Arthur hands the photo back to Cahill.
What does it want? Cahill glances at Teague... who looks to Cahill.
I think the same thing that it wanted from Bevilacqua... except that poor boy is no longer around to tell us why he shot his wife.
What did he say to you when you were in the car with him?
Something about breaking the chain. He wanted to find the next test subject... and prevent them from pushing the button. Cahill is writing diligently on his NOTE PAD. Reston can now feel something taking control of him... he looks to Teague... terrified. He closes his eyes... his body begins to twitch. Teague stares at his friend... realizing what is happening. Reston opens his eyes... now possessed... blood draining from his ears.
General Teague... it's a pleasure to meet you.
Please do not interfere... as I assure you that if you do... there will be dire consequences... Reston then turns to face Arthur and Norma.
Time is of the essence... and I'd like to invite my guests inside. Reston opens the door to the diner and gestures to Arthur and Norma for them to come inside.
Please have a seat. Reston sits down next to his twin brother... Arthur and Norma sit down across from the twins. Arlington has now locked completely into his brother's spirit... The movement of the two men is in now in PERFECT SYNCHRONICITY, staggered by exactly one second... Reston following Arlington. Arlington's eyes remain closed in deep concentration... Arlington's lips move silently... and Reston repeats them out loud. Reston's demeanor is now kind... gentle... almost apologetic for his past behavior.
Don't be frightened by my manner of communication... but it is becoming more difficult for me to speak, given my body's... condition.
What have you done with our son?
We'll get to him in a moment... but first I want you to know that I have a deep respect and admiration you both, and I am very sorry... that you pushed the button.
I will now give you a chance to save yourselves... an opportunity for redemption and salvation.
Two of your son's five functional senses have been permanently impaired.
He is now blind and deaf.
 Why...
You are now presented with two options.
And then there is option number two.
You can fire this bullet into your wife's heart... killing her.
Arthur, you will then be arrested and charged with the murder of your wife... and the money will be placed in an interest bearing trust for your son to receive upon his eighteenth birthday.
That's not fair.
I'm sorry, but the offer is not negotiable.
If Arthur has to do it... then I want you to make it look like a suicide. Arthur shouldn't be punished for something that I did.
I'm sorry... but the terms of the offer are not negotiable. Arthur faces has gone completely white.
Is there an afterlife? The twins smile cryptically in response to Arthur's question.
Because this is purgatory, right? The earth is purgatory... and you're here to start shutting things down... right? The twins appear impressed with his foresight.
I find your theory to be quite fascinating. But I must remind you that I am unable to disclose the identity of my employers. Arthur glances out the window at all of the cameras.
Right. I get it. Reston then turns to the window...
Can someone please bring up the car?
Teague glances inside the diner... then back at Arthur. Arthur nods his head slowly... his mind lost... and he limps toward the car with Norma at his side.
Tell me this isn't happening, Norma.
This isn't happening... She starts the engine... and they drive off. Arthur watches the parking lot full of MEN reflected back at them in the side-view mirror.
All these years... I've given you the impression that Walter was an accident.
Yeah... and?
And... it wasn't exactly an accident.
Why?
Because I was so afraid of losing you to someone prettier than me. Arthur just stares at her... unsure how to respond.
For that alone... I deserve a bullet in the heart... don't you think?
No... I don't. She manages a smile. A tear rolls down her cheek as she stares out at the pavement and the endless trees lining either side of the interstate.
Did my dad tell you why he loves you, Norma? Norma realizes that she has been involved all along. Blood drains from her nose.
No.
Because you're an amputee. He says that the soul of an amputee leaks out into the wind... searching for the place where there is no longer flesh and bone.
Where is our son?
He's locked in the upstairs bathroom. I think he just woke up. Dana turns away... and begins to walk down the sidewalk in the opposite direction.
His EYE-BALLS are now COMPLETELY WHITE... pupils no longer visible.
Is anyone-there?! He begins clawing at the walls... trying to figure out where he is.
I can't see!
Walter! Norma reaches down and takes her son's hand.
Who's there?! Who's there?!
Walter! It's mom! Can you hear me?!
We need to kick the door down.
He could get hurt...
Who's there? Who's there? Norma rises to her feet.
Come downstairs, Arthur. She takes his left hand... as he clutches Walter's hand in his right.
Arthur...
I'm gonna push it.
Norma...
Arthur... I love you, and I'm so sorry... I'm so sorry that I did this to us...
I'm the one who told you to push the button... so don't apologize. He looks out through the window at his back yard... likely for the last time.
I love you too... and please know... that I regret nothing in this life we've lived together.
I'll be waiting... counting the days until my Arthur comes to see me.
It's going to be harder for you to live than for me to die. Arthur closes his eyes... the noise is excruciating. There is no time to wait any longer.
Well then.
911 emergency... how may I direct your call? The CAMERA moves in closer...
Yes. This is Arthur Lewis at 1560 Monument Avenue. I've just shot my wife... can you please send an ambulance? The Operator begins to ask more questions... but Arthur does not listen. He hangs up the phone. The thumping from upstairs has now subsided.
He pulls himself to his feet and heads into the foyer.
Dad?
Yes... can you hear me?
Yeah.
What do you see? Where are you Walter?
I'm in the bathroom...
Can you see clearly?
Yeah... I can see... everything is bright... but I can see.
Everything is bright. Everything is bright Walter... you're gonna be okay, buddy.
What's going on?
You're gonna be okay, buddy. That's all that matters.
Mrs. Weller... do you have the button unit?
I'm sorry, Jim. He stares Arthur down as he is put into the back seat of the cruiser. Jim closes the door and goes around to the front of the car. Jim gets behind the wheel and starts the engine. Arthur looks back through the window, toward his house. Upstairs in the MASTER BEDROOM WINDOW... Walter is watching, tears streaming down his face. Arthur reaches up with his hands... cuffed together... and tries his best to wave at his son.
