Dude what's going on, I've been looking for you for like the last ten minutes.  You're not in your room
 Melissa's pregnant.  Fuck man, what the fuck am I going to do? (pacing back and forth nervously)
Man, are you sure she's pregnant
 Hey-what are you up to?
Not much.
Want a beer?
Hell yeah.
You got it.
Holy shit you sucked those fuckers down!
Hell yeah, looking for some inspiration.
From cheap beer?
 From the inner part of my psyche.
 What do you write about anyways?
Tonight, Sci-fi garbage
The end of yet another day in dreary Eugene.  10 beers, bad TV, no ideas. With Casey asleep I'll have only the phosphorus glow of my monitor, the click of the keyboard, and the voiceless online chatter to keep me company
OK  regional chat rooms...  What do you look like? What kind of a question is that to start things off?
I'm a 250 lb. Steroid pumping black sex machine.
I'm a hypochondriac nurse who's afraid of blood.
I am a child prodigy.
I am an 83 year old swinger.
I am Batman.
Everybody here have insomnia like me?
 Just a fellow insomniac.
Sucks huh?
Yeah, it does.
I don't sleep well normally...
I'm a little shaky at the moment 'cause I just woke up.
Shaky...shaky? Why Shaky from waking up?
I had a crazy nightmare.
I'm sorry. What was it about?
It's sort of fuzzy, but what I remember is that it was pitch black, and...  ...I think it was chasing me...
 I kept trying to run away but it came closer and closer...
You like William Blake?
 Sometimes.
I'm not much for modern poetry, but give me Yeats and I'm pretty happy.
Yeah, modern poetry kind of sucks. Its either way to sappy or way too abstract
Tell me about something you've written.
OK...
...then he's doing a seminar at a high school and he's shot and killed by the woman he hurt in his past. He dies in his wife's arms, but he isn't sad he's happy and says that he finally found Harmony in his life. Which is also her name and the name of book he wrote.
That's awesome. Can you send me the draft? I'd love to read it.  You've got me all interested.
What's your E-mail address?
 16/F/ Portland does that matter?
 Of course not; we're just talking. I like talking to you.
Thanks, I like talking to you too.
It's six. We stayed up all night.
Oh my God, are you joking?
Don't you have classes soon?
Yes! At seven! And a student council meeting! I'm going to be a wreck!
Well, I would say good night, but that would be pointless.
Good day, then?
 Look who's back from the dead?
Yeaaaaaaaaaah
You're up early.
Yeah, got work in an hour.
That sucks
Yeah... You going to Lauren's party this week.
Um.. Is it going to be a sausage fest?
Oh probably, No dude she's bringing the entire volley ball team.  Yeah, You know Amy the blonde with the big rack... I'm going
 Is it going to be a kegger what kinda party is it?
No! it's social class.  You get to be part of the aristocracy.
Oh, is there going to be like classy chicks all dressed up in dresses and stuff
Dude, that's what I'm talking about.
 Maybe get some poontang.
You're a freak man.
So how's that literary masterpiece coming along?
How do you think?  It's not.  I've been going through some writer's block.
Writer's block? So what do you do at night when you can't sleep.
I.. Uh.. work out
Oh, right on. Work out.  That's why your right arm is better then your left I take it. Casey motions again with his hand.
Hey, That's a
Hey, someone brought it to my attention it wasn't me.
 That's a conq.
So anyways I've been talking to some chick, dude, online.  She's hot.
What?
Some chick dude, she's hot
 Where did you meet her?
Online
Dude, she's fat.
How do you know?
All online chicks are heffers, Shalom!
She's hot
 Oh, so you've seen her?
I will.
Have you seen her
I will.
Oh so I see you haven't, you're going whalin budy.  That's right.
Man the harpoon.
 Hello, this is Daniel Weston's stream of consciousness.  Yet another attempt at writing something that doesn't lick balls
There is an endless array of grass. Bright green, lush and calming.  The sun is high, the sky a perfect shade of blue oblivion.  A group of people are in a herd, all banded together wearing tattered clothing.  Their eyes are wide open, gazes held at fixed at points in the distance. Their hair is torn by wind that's no longer present.  There is a path of pure granite cutting through the endless grass.  These people are together walking.  Slowly, staggering, but always walking, they are searching for the end. The end is what they seek...  crap, pure crap.
Hi, how have you been?
Good.  A little tired in school, though.
So what part of the high school caste system are you in?  I bet you're popular...
Um... kinda. I mean, I know a lot of people.
That's awesome.  I was a bit of a longer in high school, unfortunately.
Why's that?  You seem really nice.
Please don't say that
Why not?
Because girls don't like nice guys.
I do.
Really?  Well, who are you dating? A big football jock?
No... I'm not dating anybody. What about you?
No, I'm still waiting for someone to blow me away.
Do you have a picture of yourself?
I have a digital camera.  I could take one right now.
Cool
Do you have a pic?
Yes, and I'll send it after I get yours.
Okay... give me a sec.  Picture picture picture...
OK... Here it is.
 Oh My God, you look so young!
Greeaat!
No you're cute, really cute.  And so buff.  Do you work out a lot?
Thanks.  I do a lot of of pushups, sit-ups and handstand presses.  At night when I can't sleep.  I also do martial arts.
You're so cute.
I prefer sexy.
Very sexy.
Now send me your pic (typing, muttering to himself) Please don't be a heifer... please don't be a heifer.
That bad huh?
No.. You're beautiful, completely beautiful.  You have the most beautiful intense eyes I've ever seen.
You're just saying that.
I don't do that. I'm serious...
Melissa, do you like chest hair?
What kind of a question is that?  I swear you're the king of random.
I don't know... I have some and was wondering what you thought.
Um, I don't particularly like it, but it's OK.
OK
Okay one... two...
Aaarrrggghhhhhhhh!
What the fuck?
 Don't ask man.
You're crazy man
 Things you do for chicks, huh?
 Ah that's great... that's classic, props to you; I couldn't do it.
I'm bleeding. Check it out.
I'd just shave it
 Ok. Oh god...
Uh huh... I hope so... no, I missed practice today 'cause I wasn't feeling well... Yeah... I don't know though. Should I wear those new jeans I got?
I think they make my ass look totally hot... uh huh... trying to see it.
So anyway, are you going to the football game this Saturday? Is Jason is going to be there?  Yeah, I love them. Oh yeah, I'm totally going to wear them... yes, you should definitely wear the skirt... no, the skirt looks totally cute... yeah.
Hmm... no... forget it... but just take my word on it... mhmm.
 Oh god, I can hear my parents going at it yet again. They never stop. Yeah, I've gotta go... k, bye.
 Welcome to Gadget City. Sir, may I show you our projection TV's. This TV is the best. You should get this one. Absolutely.
 What are you going to do when this breaks?  I think you should really go with our extended warranty.  Yes you definitely should.  Are you sure? Nope, I'm sorry I can't just ring this up for you until I fully present the warranty.  I really think you need it.  Sir, come back. Please I fucking hate selling extended warranties.
What are you wearing for Jason's Halloween party?
I don't know. I'm thinking of going as Catwoman.  Do you think I could pull it off?
Absolutely, it would be awesome. We could get soem black hair dye, maybe some leather pants...
I don't know, Amy might copy me. She's been being such a bitch lately.
God, I know! She's really a nice girl, but she's just so selfish. I don't know what it is, but she has some weird kind of competition thing with you.
Me neither...
But so what if she copies you; you'll look better in it anyway.
 Um... ok. I have a question... do you think 23 is too old?
Too old for what?
Don't freak out on me, OK?
Well, I met this guy online, his name is Daniel and he's really awesome.  He's sweet, and wonderful, and he's just so amazing.
 The only problem is that he's twenty- three.
You met him online?  I don't know... that's kind of risky. I mean, what if he's some kind of psycho or deranged lunatic?
 No, he's not, he's not, he's totally not!
How do you know?
I can just tell; we connect. When I'm talking to him I just feel so comfortable. He's sweet, and nice, and romantic... he feels like my soulmate or something.
That's cool I guess. It's still weird though. What does he look like? Is he hot?
Very...
Let me see... oho, you're right.  Age might not matter.
 You really think so?
Hey, I missed you.  How's your mom?
Doing better.  She's been fighting a lot less with my dad.
That's good.  Hopefully it will last. My parents used to fight like crazy and they are always at each other's throats.  I never want to be like that... I wrote you something.
No one's ever done anything like that for me before.
You're worth it. Okay, here it is. Ode to Melissa
 Ode to Melissa I greet the fly that lands on my bed I try to find words worthy of your presence.
Outside, you lurk with nervous feline eyes.  Day yawns to night, Trees become dark bodies -- Giant shadow puppets of street lamp Halos.
 Accept webcam... YES!
Eyes close to the warmth of dreams Green dreams of happy tomorrows, And you busy, calm, watchful night You are the cool darkness between Days. The molecules of time sleep, Their quiet undulations Across your starry hands
As I lie and watch your naked skin Bathed by moonlight. Oh... wow.
I have a surprise for you.
 Accept webcam request  Yes.
Ahhh...
I want to call you.
Hi. 
How are you doing?
Great.
You should tell your dad how you feel.
You think he'll actually understand?
No, but at least it's a good start.
The beginning of your script Harmony is based off you huh?
How did you know that?
I could just tell.
So what happened at school?
If you could do anything right now, what would it be?
I don't know, something with you.
I'd want to feel a cool breeze on a high mountain lake sitting near a bonfire, looking at the stars... that's where I'd like to be.
Oho... that sounds nice... but I would want some marshmallows.
 Definitely. It's all about the marshmallows.
Good night Melissa
Good night Daniel
Good luck on your test tomorrow; I hope you're not too tired.
I'll be alright. Thanks though. And bye!
Bye.
Just get up?
 Um.. Yeah.
 Time for some pre-party beer action.
Oh yeah?
 It's Friday night, it's going to be rockin,' lets go.  Come on twinkletoes -- come on
I can't believe you got me to drink Steel Piss Tap
Aw, it's good for you dude.
It puts the lead in your pencil.
So how's that Melissa thing going?
I don't know... well, Melissa's great, beautiful, sweet, nice...
Then what's the problem?
She's sixteen... check!
 Oh.
Don't tell me you haven't thought about being with a younger chick dude.  I know  you.  Casey, Casey Smith on the prowl.
 That's something, ah... sixteen? That's pretty young. That's something that, you know, you think about and you talk about, but you don't actually do.  Like banging your step mom.
 You banged your step mom?
 Nevermind, dude.
Oh man.
Dude, I was joking. Snarfer.
Check.
Ahhhhhh, shit.
 Sarah's going to be back in town this month.
Yeah? You two still talk?
Yeah, we managed to stay friends.
Are you still in love with her?
No.
That's good at least.
Check.
Damn... Shit ... I'm never playing this game again.  Why do I suck so bad?  It's the beer.
Is this party going to be any good? What's the back up plan?  Walking up and down University Street, smashed, causing havoc?.
 Actually, that is the backup plan.
Hello?
 Hey Melissaaa... this is Daniel... I'm bleeding inside... I wanted to tell you... I need you.
 Are you okay?  Where are you at?
Melissa... I love you. I want to hold you... and fuck you... and tell you I love you...
 You're drunk.  You need to get home and go to sleep.
No I wanted to tell you... and I want to be with you... you're perfect. I want to see you...
 Please, just try and get home safe. We can talk tomorrow when you're sober.
I'm serious... I love you, I want to be with you... will you marry me?
 Daniel, its 4:30 am. Call me when you're sober.
I'm serious... will you marry me?
 Good bye, Daniel. 
Yeah.  I drank way too much last night.
Dude... you look like shit.
Thanks.
Ow! Hot hot hot... damn it.
Hello?
Hi... this is Daniel. How are you?
I'm OK.
I'm sorry about last night. I was really drunk.  I spent all day lying in bed dry heaving.
Why did you do that to yourself?  Do you even remember all the stuff you told me on the phone last night?
Not really.  I was feeling lonely. I'm sorry for waking you up last night to talk to a drunken idiot.
It's not OK, but I'm fine.
I still want to meet you though.
I don't know...
It's been two weeks since my drunken exuberance.  Sarah my ex finance is back to walk over me yet again. When asked about my love life I mentioned Melissa.  Of course I changed her age to 19.  I feel like the proverbial loner, mentioning a girl I've never met.
Why are you still here?  You graduated two years ago.  Shouldn't you be moving on?
I don't know.  I guess I'm just waiting for some inspiration. To come out and be like... Here I am world Daniel Weston.  I'm waiting to write my masterpiece.
Don't wait too long.  So how was your weekend?  Did you go out?
Yeah and I got hit on by some older chicks.
Is that good?
It's not good or bad, they just drank a little too much and couldn't help themselves.
Ahh. Okay.
Probably thought that if I got drunk enough I'd take them home... kinda sad actually.
I'm sure.  So nothing came of that?
Um...not exactly my type. Yeah, there were no girls for me; no one that was interesting at least.
Interesting enough to what?
To date.  I want to be blown away, but I haven't met a girl yet who's done that to me.  Maybe it's not even possible.  I mean, I've loved girls, but I haven't been blown away by them.
Um... thanks.
I didn't mean it like that.
Yes you did.  But that's okay. You can care about someone, even love them, and not be 'in' love with them or 'blown away.'
I could be in love with Melissa like that, but I'd have to see her in person to really know.  Ah fuck it... I'll just stick to working a lot, and going out by myself.
Right. Anyway, it would be hard to know what your feelings really are without spending time in the flesh.
 It's all about the flesh
Mmmm.  Apparently it's not, because as you say, you have no problem with that area.
I was kidding. Sex is easy, but sex with passion and meaning... yeah... that's the good stuff. Anyway... at least part of you still has to find some strange, unexplainable attraction to the directionless writer still searching for that special thought.
Maybe, but only a little part.
 I know.  So how are you and your husband doing?
We're fine.
You look really happy together.
Thanks, we are. Stop trying to change the subject. Why haven't you met Melissa yet?
She says she's not ready to meet me yet and that she feels pressured.
That's odd... don't you guys talk all the time?
Yeah, but remember she's only si-, ah, 19, and I kinda called her drunk awhile ago and said some things.
What things?
It's embarrassing. I asked her to marry me, told her I loved her, and, well, you know...
No wonder she doesn't want to meet you right away.
Maybe I should stop talking to her, tell her I don't want to do the wrong thing and mess her life up.
Right.  Then you'll start drinking and call her and all this shit will come out and you won't even remember what you said to her.
I don't do that anymore.
Yeah. Famous last words, Daniel.
I promised I'd stop...
Promised who? You even used to call me drunk.
What?!
You used call me and beg me to live with you, kiss you..., all that stuff.
 Ahhh, you never told me all that before. I'm sorry about that...
If I had a boyfriend who was doing that. You have a habit of doing this and not just in isolated incidents.
So what would you recommend?
No more whacked out phone calls, obviously. And honestly, I would want to meet her in person, to try and see if your feelings are real and if she feels the same. You'll gain a much clearer and accurate idea of the situation and the type of relationship that may exist between the two of you, in the real world, not virtual land.  Now, there is a huge risk in that, because what if they are real and she still doesn't feel the same for you?  It will hurt like a bitch, but at least you'll know, and you can stop putting yourself out there.  Even though that's a worst case scenario, there is a positive side to it, because you will definitely get closure either way.
Well she doesn't want to meet me yet. She's all fucked up.
I think she does; she's just nervous. Just explain it to her the way I've explained it to you. If she really cares about you as a true friend, and not some trophy who is infatuated with her, then she'll want to do whatever she can to help salvage the friendship while still respecting your honest feelings for her.
Okay, I guess I'll do what I originally wanted and take her out.
Okay, let's get your terminology right first.  You won't be "taking her out" you'll be "meeting" her. It's the difference between sounding sleazy and sounding decent.  Those are the little things that freak girls out.
All right, we'll see what happens. Thank you, though, I appreciate you your advice on this.
My husband's waiting for me, but it's been fun catching up with you, and I'm sure we'll see each other around.  Since you're here.
 Thank you for that.
 No problem.
There it is. Anyways, it's been fun hanging out with you.
You too.
Have a good night
Yeah, you too, good bye.
Too old. Fuck it.
Too boring.
Too smooth.
Right.
Too bland.
Too young.
I'm Daniel Weston. How you doin.'
No.
Closer, but not quite right.
Perfect.
Melissa?
 Hey.
I'm Daniel... well, ah --
Nice to meet you.
Um, how are you doing?
Good, how are you?
Cool. Did you have a good day at school?
It was good; I only had three classes, so...
It's so nice to finally see you.
 You too.
It's a nice day.
 Yeah it is.
Do you want to take a walk?
Sure.
So what do you want to do?
I don't know. What do you normally do on a first date?
 I thought this wasn't supposed to be a date.
That was before...
Well... I want to do something special. Something you've never done before.
Well name something and I'll tell you if I've done it or not.
Skydiving. You ever been skydiving?
 Skydiving?
Yeah, jump out of a plane, have some fun.
Yes, I know, but why would I want to jump out of a plane?
It would be fun. I'm serious, we should go skydiving.
The only thing is that I heard the first time you jump you have to go strapped to someone's crotch.
 No.
Yeah!
I'm not doing it.
 Wha... why?
Hello, jumping out of a plane however far up that is, and being strapped to someone, and maybe having my parachute not come out...
 You can go strapped to me if you want.
Have you ever skydived before?
 Of course, I do it all the time.
Are you just kidding?
Anyways, um, actually the reason you have to go strapped to someone is because 1 out of 100 people have faulty parachutes.
Exactly!
 Just kidding. You're scared.
I am!
Maybe we should go see a scary movie...
I told you how I feel about scary movies.
Yet you watch them by yourself in the dark when you're bored?
 Yeah, I like them but they scare the hell out of me; I'm a freak.
But you like it
 Do you?
Let's see...
What are you looking at?
Your eyes...
What about them?
Well, they're beautiful, but they're also dilating.
What does that mean?
That you like what you're looking at.
Is that really what it means?
Actually, yeah. In magazines they dim the lights before taking the shots so the models look excited and like they enjoy staring at the intended audience... so what do you want to do?
I don't know.
Ah, lets go see a movie.
What kind?
Zombie killers four.
 I'm just kidding..
 Well, nothing can be as bad as Death Stalkers 3.
Zombie Killers 4. But the zombie genre's been coming back. There have been like four new zombie movies; there's even a comedy, Shane of the Dead.
I saw that one.
Really? You saw Shane of the Dead?
I did; it was funny.
 It was hilarious.
I was still freaked out though. Please don't laugh at me.  Maybe I'll see it, but you have to promise to stay with me for awhile afterwards.
Why's that?
Cause I get scared.  I know it's stupid, but I can't help it.  It's so bad.  I get scared by anything.
Oh, zombie killers isn't really going to be that scary.
I got freaked out by the Jaberwokki from Alice in Wonderland.
Oh my god... that is bad.
Come on, let's go on a walk.
Where do you want to go?
Well, first let's go this way.
 Okay.
Then when we're done going that way, let's go over there. Then lets go talk to some runners.
What?
I had a really good time.
Yeah, I'm so glad I finally got to meet you.  This is great.  When can I see you again?
Tomorrow.
Really?
 Good bye Melissa.
 Bye.
Hey I'm going to try and get some 'shrooms this weekend.  Do you want to trip with me.
I don't think so.  I've never done that before.
Have you tried any psychedelics before?
No.
That's like dying and having never had sex.
I don't know about that, I've seen them do some bad things to my friends. Nightmares, flashbacks, etc.
Oh that only happens if you way over do it.  It's not something you're suppose to do all the time, just every once in a great while.
Yeah, but what's the point?
It gives you a new perspective and takes you completely out of your element.  It's a little hard too explain to someone who has never experienced it before.
Doesn't it make you stupid?
Do I seem stupid to you?  Wait... don't answer that.  Anyway, it changes you, but for the better. It improves your creativity. It could give you that inspiration you're always looking for.
Yeah, but I don't think it's worth the bad things It can do.
Well I believe in the 50 times rule. After 50 times you have permanent psychosis, cause there is only so much your mind can take before it completely detaches from reality. Well, heave you've ever read or heard about the LSD experiments the government did?  They experimented on some their top scientists without their knowledge.  They were dosed with an insanely high amount and tripped for like a week.  Afterwards they returned to their normal jobs and continued working for the government, except for one guy, who went completely insane and then tried to sue the government for causing his mental illness.  He tried to kill everyone that turned completely homicidal.  My mother works as a nurse at Precious Heart Hospital and the third floor is completely devoted to mental patients that can't come back into society and most of them are former drug addicts.  People that abuse meth really bad can go into a homicidal psychosis permanently, where they are always trying to kill random people and have delusions of persecution.
Crazy, you definitely don't make it sound very appealing.
Well that's only in the extremes. A little bit completely changes you, but for the better.  You should try it sometime.
No thanks. I've talked to too many hippy fucks who try to tell me everything they've learned from tripping. It usually consists of seeing how it's all energy that comes up from the ground and flows through everything, cause everything is connected and that they've learned so much, but can't describe it. I'm like OK, you've learned nonsense... great.
How was your date with Melissa?
It was great actually.  She's a really cool girl.
Have you hit it yet?
No... and I don't want to right away. I really like this girl.
Oh come on, Mr. Insomniac.  Why would you want to wait?  Don't you get tired of jacking off to internet porn?
Haha...
The Donkey show is a lot less interesting the 18th time.
 You're a fucking pervert.
Hi.  What are you up to?
Slowly running my hand over her face, the tips pressing ever so softly against her skin, from her lips, to her neck, to her chest... over her belly and down to her...  Gazing into her eyes, enveloped in utter stillness, thrust against her skin, stillness...kisses, lips parted slightly as my tongue caresses the soft warmth of her tender neck. The small quivers of skin, eruptions spilling gently against my fingers as I run them across her naked back, hands exploring the intricacies of her soul. Long kisses... hot, as I press my lower lip against her skin, moving slowly, building into fast, deep kisses that touch every inch of her body. Moaning, clenched in my arms... hot... sweaty... hard, then soft... the shock and vibration of her body as I stroke her to distraction, continuing the rhythm, with every thrust slowly increasing, harder... faster... eyes locked... building... skin inflamed... hot, scorching, no release... then... ahhhhhhhh, ecstasy, sweet, hot and intense.  When you're lying in post- coital sweat, every fiber of your body screaming with exquisite sensitivity , drained, the muscles relaxed, poured onto the bed as the breath steadies, lying next to perfection... then, my friend, you've found heaven.
 Well it's quite obvious I'm a horny bastard.
Have you seen Dirty Dancing?
Who hasn't?  That's the best movie ever.
Wait, you have to warn me first OK? Let's try it slowly this time.
Okay. Don't drop me.
Ok, put your foot here. Now pull. Good.
I can't...
Yes you can. I've got you. Push. Higher. Come on. I've got you. Use some upper body strength.
I need to get up more. Daniel! Daniel!
Harmony is really good; I like the how the demon whose haunting him is really himself.
That was supposed to be the most powerful part. The realization that all his problems, all his hate, and everything that was combined and traced out towards the world is really a reflection of his own cruelty rather than the cruelty of the world. The metaphor of the demon being a young version of himself.
I love the symbolism; it's great.
You should help me write something.
Help you how?
UM... help me with some ideas.
I read...
 Give me some crazy ideas. I know you're a literature nut.
I read books. I like looking at them and analyzing them, but as for writing, that's all you.  I can help you edit, help you submit it to publishers, but that's about it.
That would be cool... how do you know so much about publishing and editing and stuff?
My parents have a small publishing business. Its actually pretty successful, so I've been immersed in the publishing world all my life. It's probably why I love books, though I should be sick of them at this point.
Crazy. How come you never mentioned that before?
I don't know. I didn't really think about it, I guess.
Hmm.  I need to write something bigger; better than Harmony.
Why bigger? Why not start off little?
I want something... I'm a perfectionist. I hate reading my own work.
When I read something like that, I think 'ah, this is horrible' which is normal, I guess. I know its okay, but its not what I want.
So, another random question. What's the first thing you look at in someone when you're trying to figure out what's going on in their head? What's going on in their mind?
Where did that come from?
I don't know. Nowhere, I guess. Just thoughts.
Just thoughts, huh? There are a lot of things I look at. How they're body moves, how they move their hands... but mostly their eyes. Their eyes show if they're in pain happy, or sad; if they're anxious or they want something. Get an in depth look at their personality.
You can tell all that from someone's eyes?
Yes, and a lot more.
What do you see in my eyes?
I see beauty, and innocence, and a die-hard romantic... but you are kind of hard to read.
Why's that?
You just are. I don't make the rules. Why are you laughing?
I don't know... it's hard when someone's talking about you and what you're like. And I am a hopeless romantic... you got that right.
And much more... what's your biggest fear Melissa?
That I'll never fall in love
I guarantee that won't happen...
How do you know?  I haven't fallen in love yet.
Well for one thing, hormones and nature will make you fall in love sometime no matter what...
I hate that you think like that.
If you put two people on an island with no one else they'll fall in love.  Nature has a part in love too you know.  But it's not a bad thing.. nature is beautiful, love is beautiful.  I just understand how it works.  Nature is a catalyst... for your feelings... it doesn't create your feelings... but it can help you realize them.  Does that makes sense?
Kinda, but I don't know... I believe in soul mates... That there is one person you are destined to be with
What? I really do! I know it's silly, but I can't help it.
It's not silly, it's cute. You're cute.
 So what's your biggest fear?
Being alone... like ending up alone.
I thought you said nature would make sure you fell in love.
Yeah, but being in love doesn't mean you won't be alone... the only thing that really exists is the moment right now... that's my biggest fear... being trapped in fleeting moments where all I can think about is how much I love someone and not being able to express it... being forever alone...no one to care about or share myself with... I hate being alone.
I'm sure you'll never be alone for any real length of time.
Why's that?
Because you're too nice a guy.
Oh god, please don't say that.
Say what?
You just called me a nice guy.
So?
Girls don't like nice guys
I do.
Have you ever been in love before?
Once.
Really?
Yeah.
Why didn't it work out?
She was very career oriented, which is cool, but I was still an undergrad and she graduated and was going to leave for grad school. I had to stay and finish my degree. I don't do long distance relationships, so it was goodbye. I don't want someone without ambition, but I do want someone who will support me and will make decisions in our best interest. And at the time I didn't plan on being suck in this same city.
Why are you still here?
Still waiting for my inspiration. I am going to write something incredible someday.
What happened to her?
She moved, met someone else, and got married.
Wow... that was quick.
Well, she's a little older than me, so it was probably her "time."
What's a little older?
Two years.
What's name?
Sarah.
Do you still love her?
I'll always love her. I think if you really love someone that your feelings will never go away.
Oh... I guess I sort of understand... Daniel, do you care that I'm only 16?
Of course not.  I think it's hot. What's sexier then a beautiful young girl.
Is that the only reason you like me? I mean, why do you like me so much; what makes me so different?
Oh, come on now... I love how you look at me, how you talk, the excitement in your eyes when we talk about playing tag on moon... why would you ask me that?
 I don't know...
 Melissa...
 Yeah?
Can I kiss you?
I like you.
I like you too.
Hey, hold on a second, something's different.
What do you mean?
You're glowing.
Glowing? What?
You got laid didn't you? You had sex with Melissa?
No. Well, not yet anyway.
Not yet, when are you planning it?
I'm not, I really like this girl.
What do you guys do together?
We talk about everything and nothing at the same time.
Uh huh... everything and nothing... weirdo.  Dude, I know what you should write about!
What?
Write about what you know. Write about Melissa, that's what's interesting to me.  Tell me about her.
What about her?
How she breathes, how she feels, what that does to you.  I think it would be interesting.
That's a great idea!
You're a stupid cat aren't you? You're just stoopid, huh? Yeah, you're just a big baby.
So what do you want to listen to?
Something sexy.
Something sexy?
Yeah
Why's that?
How do you feel?
Good... how do you feel?
Alive.
Alive?  What do you mean?
I feel energized, full of life, ready to take on the world.  What do you want to today?  Let's go for a walk, or even better, go hiking?  Wait. What about a road trip?  San Francisco would be fun.
Um, no, hello.  I have to go to school and then back home so my parents won't suspect anything.
What would happen if your parents found out about me?
Well... that's not going to happen.
But what would happen if they did?
They would freak and probably try to prosecute you.  My mom would be more likely to be okay with it, but my dad would absolutely freak.
You know Justin likes you right? He's totally cute.  I bet he asks you to Homecoming.
 Maybe, but I probably won't go with anybody.
Why's that?
You know why; I think I'm in love with Daniel.
 I can't believe you had sex with him, you're such a slut.
Clarissa!
Just kidding! Well, you should at least bring him sometime when we all hang out.
Don't you think that would be weird?
Yeah, but I want to meet him.
But what if my parents find out?
Do you really think you can hide it from them forever?
Daniel, I'm pregnant. 
 Oh my god... shit... are you okay? Are you alright?  Where are you? I'll come pick you up.
You can't right now. My parents are home.
I don't care about that. I need to see you.
I'm sorry. I-I just can't.  I'll be okay, honestly.
No, you won't, you're pregnant. What are we going to do... oh my god my life could be over... let me come get you... go away with me.
Stop talking crazy, Daniel.
What do you think about an abortion?
What-!? Damn, my mom is calling me, I'll call you back.
Wait...
Dude what's going on, I've been looking for you for like the last ten minutes.  You're not in your room
 Melissa's pregnant.  Fuck man, what the fuck am I going to do? (pacing back and forth nervously)
Man, are you sure she's pregnant
That's what she told me... my life's over.  She's mad at me, her parents are going to find out... I'm going to jail... I'm a fucking idiot.
 Calm down Daniel. Make sure its for real and that she takes a pregnancy test.
Why do you keep saying that?
'Cause girls are wrong about that sometimes or they tell you that to get a rise out of you.  It's happened to me a few times and they never ended up being pregnant.
Well, Melissa isn't like that.
Trust me, ask her to take a pregnancy test at Planned Parenthood.
Won't her parents find out for sure then?
It's anonymous.
Trust me, you'll be alright.
 Melissa I'll take care of you.  Don't worry about anything.  I have money. We'll be happy. Run away with me... (more drunken, incoherent slur)
Hi.
Hi.
I missed you
I missed you, too.
You're not pregnant?  What the fuck! Why did you lie to me?
I didn't lie! I wasn't sure...  I thought I was because my period was a week and a half late...
You want a fantasy, this is real. The guy you want doesn't exist. This isn't a fucking movie.  This is real; I'm real.
I know what I want...
Yeah, and what is that?
God, I don't know, but not this.
Well... at least this way life is interesting.
You're a mess, Daniel.
Hello.
Hi.  You're still awake.
 I've been going through a little insomnia again lately. Did you get my package?
 Daniel, it is beautiful.  That's the most beautiful thing anyone has ever given me.
I'm glad you liked it.
I loved it... whats that?
Why do you care?
Why do I-you know what, whatever. Bye --
 Melissa, wait... I'm sorry 
You're an alcoholic. And I do care, because I love you.
I prefer drunk... but yes I know. And I'm working on that.
How?  By drinking yourself to death. You know what Daniel? I think you do get scared.
Of what?
Not amounting to anything.
Yeah...
Alcohol is your escape. It allows you to avoid doing anything useful.
Maybe.
She was an angel, about to get her first taste of mortality, the realization that it wouldn't last forever.  That incredible feeling... that you're free. You want to feel every tiny fiber of your limited existence... to dwell in an emotional sandstorm, to be so flushed with the human experience that if even if death came in the preceding seconds, you would smile, for you knew you were really, truly alive once. Mr. Jones picks up the phone and dials. He speaks to someone on the other end.
Hi Rob - I've just received a very interesting manuscript.  I'm going to send it to you to read. I know we don't normally look at anonymous submissions, but you have to read this; it's great.
Hello?
Hi, is this Daniel Weston?
Yes.
This is the Senior Vice President for Aldor Publishing and we've received your submission...
Hey honey, how was your day?
Pretty good actually.
 Where did you get that ring Melissa?
 Um... I just got it at the mall.
Give Daniel my regards, won't you?
Daddy --
How did this happen?
I can't believe this happened.  That we were so god-damned blind.  We have to do something.
We were so stupid... I was stupid... You were stupid.  Clarissa's house my ass.
Hello?  Can I help you?
Hi, I'm Daniel Weston. I need to speak with you.
 Honey that man's here.
Who?
Daniel Weston.
Why are you here?
Can I please just speak with you?
So speak.
Please, can I come in?
Homey, please, I don't want the neighbors to see or hear what's going on.
Fine. You've got five minutes.
If you're going to prosecute me, then do it, but know that I do love your daughter.  I never intended this. I just met her and couldn't help falling in love with her.
She's only 16.
I know, but that didn't change my heart.
You like my work.  Just because I was inspired by your daughter doesn't mean it's any less valid.
Don't worry, they won't prosecute. And we can still see each other... well at least talk...
 We'll see. I love you Melissa. And thank you.
For what?
 Everything.
How's New York?
Very cold, but good...
