DRUM ROLL ends with a CYMBAL CRASH. The SCREEN goes BLACK. Then we hear an opening MUSIC "INTRO", a bawdy QUARTET. EXTREME CLOSE UP: RED LUSCIOUS LIPS... speaking directly into CAMERA in a smoky, sultry voice.
Once upon a time ...a long, looong time ago... there was a good little girl...and they called her... REVEAL ...TESS. A stunner with impossibly long lashes, theatrical make-up and a sequined, skin-tight band-aid of a dress. She works the tight stage of the club, toying with the AUDIENCE.
Burlesque. MUSIC BLARES from a HOT YOUNG BUMPER BAND -- sax, drums, bass -- wearing bowler hats, suspenders and lots of ink. The crowd HOOTS. Lame streamers EXPLODE from the stage.
Some say she up and died-of neglect. Abandonment.
But I say...no matter how hard you try, you can't keep a good girl down. And I've got a bevy of 'em.
Come to think of it, none of them are all that good, which isn't all that bad... SEAN , a cute gay guy with an armful of accessories pushes his way through the girls and in a blur, tightens a corset, tosses a boa, adjusts a garter just so.
Eight shows a week. Sixteen gorgeous girls. Thirty-two towers of luscious legs...
Say hello to Scarlett. Jesse. Anna. Coco-puff. And Georgie-Girl. The girls gather at the edge of the stage, lit by footlights, moving in place to the beat of the INTRO MUSIC. Hips sway. Fingers snap. Tess weaves playfully between them.
All of them the creme-de la creme.
Each one a bastion of bodacious... (Coco bends over, peers between her legs) Elegance. TWO GIRLS upside down on chairs NAIL aerial splits.
Not to mention their other...  Ass-ets. Coco raises a brow, moves her butt to a LOUD BUMP-AND-GRIND.
Welcome to the Burlesque Lounge, dead smack in the center of the Sunset Strip-- did I say "strip?"  I meant TEASE... FOOTLIGHTS FLARE, UPLIGHTING THE GIRLS. They shift their weight, hitting the beats with risque moves and hip-thrusts as they MOVE DOWNSTAGE suggestively toward the audience to the MUSIC...
Uh, excuse me? You forgot something. He turns. Sees: ALI ROSE. One hand holding a bar rag, the other planted on her hip. Ali has a look that's all her own: short shorts, white platform sandals, hair piled up high, more make-up than the rest of Grundy's women combined. She's young -- 22 -- but has a confidence that's got nothing to do with age.
No, that's your tip.
Huh. See, now that's interesting -- you and I must do math completely differently, cause me? I start with the six beers I brought you, add the four spills I cleaned up, the five times I refilled your peanuts, plus the three times you "accidentally" touched my ass, then I tack on lying to your wife when she called looking for you, twice, and I come up with a sum that's a hell of a lot more than twenty-five cents. Before the Regular can respond, Ali is joined by LORETTA -- 30's wearing every one of those years hard.
She's just teasing, Ike. You go on home now, and tell Kay I said hi. The Regular leaves. Loretta picks up the quarter.
It's better than nothing.
Nothin's cheap. A quarter's an insult.
It'll cover half a load down at the Spanky Clean.
There's only one thing a quarter is good for. Ali takes the quarter and heads to the back of the room, passing a GEEZER who's sitting by himself, drinking alone.
Oh no, hon, now you know how Dwight feels about that.
Dwight isn't here. Ali stops in front of the rinky-dink karaoke machine.
He could come back any minute.
Tough. I'm not working here for the tips Loretta. She pops the quarter into the machine and chooses a song. She picks up the microphone and, after a few opening beats, starts singing ETTA JAMES'S "SOMETHING'S GOT A HOLD ON ME".
And now we see where the confidence comes from. She's got a voice that's way too big for this town-- the kind that reaches way down inside you and rattles things loose. WE HEAR the same song continue as we INTERCUT with:
IN DWIGHT'S BAR, Ali is belting now. Loretta is torn between enjoying listening and watching the door for Dwight.
As other ENTERTAINERS appear onstage:
The insatiable La Puccini Triplets! Death-defying daredevils Missy and Kitten DeVille! The Countess of contortion, Eva Destruction! And how about a little love for those bad boys of burlesque, our naughty- bawdy bumber band! THE TATTOOED BAND blares as the troupe kicks in unison
IN DWIGHT'S BAR, Ali, letting loose now. Wailing.
ON THE BURLESQUE STAGE, the BURLESQUE GIRLS move in a line toward the audience, confident, sexy. The BARTENDERS, WAITRESSES and people working at the club sing along.
IN DWIGHT'S BAR, Ali.
People around here wouldn't know talent if it bit 'em in the Danglies. Where you gotta go is Des Moines. They got karaoke bars where you can win a hundred bucks a night.
Loretta-- when I get out of this butt-hole of a town, I sure as shit won't be heading for Des Moines. She hops up onto the bar, spins around on her butt, one leg up in the air like a Varga girl, then hops down on the other side then gets back to work.
Where the hell is Nikki?
Rehab, if there's a God. The BACKSTAGE DOOR BURSTS OPEN revealing--
I heard that. Nikki, a stunning, feisty brunette, sashays in--
Jesus, Nikki, you're later than Georgia's period! Where were you?
Weave, wax, paws and claws. She drops her bag, quickly peels her clothes off, holds out her arms as Sean slips her corset onto her-- Tess eyes Nikki's body--
Hold it right there. Weigh in. Nikki unwillingly steps on the scale. Tess shakes her head.
Put on five pounds or I bump you. Nikki protests as Sean double-takes at Georgia -- who FLITS BY with a slightly protruding belly.
Nanna? Got your pot roast here!
They were out of steak fries, so I got you some of those... Then she stops in her tracks. Nanna -- 80's, housecoat, oxygen tank -- is slumped in her chair. The TV remote is on the floor. "ENTERTAINMENT TONIGHT" is blaring.
Nanna?
Dear Lord, we gather here today not to mourn, but to celebrate the life of Alison Rose.
Arlene.
What?
She's Arlene. I'm Alison.
Oh, shit.  Can I start over? Ali rolls her eyes.
The Minister and the Cemetery worker walk away, leaving Ali and Loretta alone.
You were real good to her, Ali.
No, she was good to me. She rearranges the flowers resting on the plot, fixing it up.
And she wasn't even my real Nanna.
What...?
Foster care. She took me in for the checks. When I turned eighteen, the money stopped coming. She could've kicked me out, but she didn't.
She had a lot of pain at the end. Nothing she talked about, but I could tell.
Well, then I guess this is a blessing. Now she's free. ON ALI, thinking realizing:
 Yeah. I guess she is.
In the wings, Tess watches with Sean.
Girls look good tonight.
Amazing what a pink spotlight can do. Hides more cellulite than a burka.
You're three days late.
I had a death in the family.
And what, people stop drinking cause your grandma died? Get your apron and get to work.
I'm not here to work. I'm leaving.
You are?
Yeah.
Payday's the end of the month.
But, I won't be here then. And you owe me for three weeks.
I don't owe anyone anything till the end of the month. Ali sets down her suitcase and marches over to him.
You know what, Dwight? Contrary to what you've been told, there's no law in Grundy that says you have to spend every waking minute being a tight-fisted, cheap-ass prick --
 Ooh, hon, I'm not sure that particular approach is gonna --
I've spent three years of my life
--And you'll probably spend another three. You want to quit? Good riddance. I'll replace you before you hit the county line, but I sure ain't gonna pay for the privilege. He walks out the back door, slamming it behind him.
What are you doing?
I'm only taking what he owes me.
Ali-- where are you gonna go?
Somewhere I can breathe. Now gimme a hug, I gotta get out of here before he gets back. Loretta hugs her tight, then looks Ali in the eye, concerned.
You can't just head off into the sunset without a plan.
She'll be back. As Ali heads off, we HEAR:
How much to Los Angeles?
You're kidding, right?
They're loving you tonight.
They're loving you.
Oh, shucks, I just tell myself I'm writing for a big old drag queen.
Eat me. As he heads off with her discarded costume:
A big old foul-mouthed drag queen! Tess looks in a mirror. As she makes the necessary adjustments, VINCE SCALI appears. 35, scruffy-handsome.
Good show tonight. She glances up, sees him. Gets icy. Goes back to primping.
Too bad the club's half-empty.
Half-full.
I got another call from Marcus Gerber.
And you told him we weren't selling.
He wants to raise his offer. I told him we'd hear him out. Tess spins around, looking him in the eye for the first time.
Vince, I don't care what the number is; the only way Marcus Gerber will get this club from me is by prying it out of my cold, dead, heavily- jeweled fingers. She pivots away and sweeps into the club.
Big finish, the number on stage ends.
102.7 KIIS FM. Broadcasting from Hollywood and Vine... Ali perks up-- looks out the window as the bus rounds a bend and... THE HOLLYWOOD SIGN comes into view. NEW MUSIC UP:
Okay!
Oh, hang on. She digs into her purse. All she has is twenties. She peels one off and holds it out.
If I could just get a little -- But before she can finish, he pockets it, nods and leaves, closing the door behind him. To the closed door:
-- change. She pulls open the blinds, they fall off the wall with a CRASH! Ali stares at them. Then she opens the window. The SOUNDS OF HOLLYWOOD pour in. She digs out her cash, sticks it under the mattress. Then she reconsiders.
Hey. I thought this was a single. The cat curls up next to her. She checks his junk.
Typical. First guy I meet is neutered.
Singer/Actress... Singer/Songwriter .Singer/Scuba diver? Perfect. ON ANOTHER AD: It says: "SINGER/WAITRESS WANTED." MUSIC UP:
Sorry, ladies, that's all the applications we're taking today. CLOSE ON: an ad: "DANCERS WANTED. PRETTY GIRLS ONLY."
I can dance.
She'll be back.
Intrigued, Ali looks for a break in the traffic and crosses the street. As she nears the club, she hears a MAN'S VOICE:
Like I said, LOOK BUT DON'T TOUCH! ALEXIS, drag queen/door whore, also in full costume and make- up, TOSSES a GUY out the front door onto the street, then heads back inside-- Ali smiles to herself. Then turns back to look at COCO who disappears inside a BACK DOOR as...NIKKI walks out. Lights a ciggie. She has on full make-up. Lacquered lips. Lashes like peacock feathers. She sees Ali staring.
Didn't your Mama tell you it's not polite to stare?
Sorry, you're just -- so DAMN beautiful.
No one would ever guess.
What?
That you're a dude. Nikki's face turns to stone. Her eyes widen in horror. Ali sees the mistake she made. She's mortified.
Oh, shit.
"Shit's" right, you little half-wit
Nikki is about to unleash when the stage door opens.
Bitch! You're on! Sean grabs her and drags her inside. As he does, a STRAND OF CRYSTAL BEADS comes off her costume, falls to the ground.
I'm really sor-- The stage door slams shut. Ali picks up the strand of beads. Holds them up in the light, watching them shimmer. She goes to the front of club, where a smattering of L.A. HIPSTERS enter. There's a GLASS DISPLAY CASE full of photos of the acts. Ali looks at the pictures of the Girls in their elaborate costumes and provocative poses. She's unintentionally made her way to the front door. Black curtains obscure her view inside. She peers in. HEARS cool music emanating. The sounds of a nightclub. Intriguing. She ventures inside...
Alexis sits on a stool, glaring down at her.
What is this place? A strip club?
Strip club? Honey, I ought to wash your mouth out with Jaegermeister. The only pole you'll find in here is Natasha the shot girl. Ali looks back at the photos.
Twenty bucks. Ali looks in her wallet. Sees one lone twenty inside. She hands it to Alexis. He nods for her to go ahead. Ali descends a staircase INTO THE CLUB... .and is BOMBARDED by: colors, chaos, laughter, scandal -- all shimmering, as if someone dunked the place in glitter. And over it all, an incredible mash-up of old music with a contemporary beat tying it all together. Ali ENTERS, rounds a pillar, staring out into the room as a SPOTLIGHT finds the stage where half a dozen OSTRICH FANS
Smoother than honey and twice as sweet. Each girl lovelier then the next. Gentlemen, hold onto your hats. Ladies, hold on to your gentlemen. We may not have windows.. .but we DO have the best view on the Sunset Strip! MUSIC KICKS IN AS LIGHTS FLARE from the back of the stage, where Three Girls stand, backs to the audience, Fosse-style. Coco, Georgia, and Nikki strut downstage. Behind them, Girls MOVE AND DANCE on cabaret chairs. Totally raunchy, completely timeless.
Get you a drink? She turns. A bartender is watching her watch. JACK - 25, punky, dark hair, eyeliner, one arm half-sleeved with tats.
Only if you're buying.
 Welcome to L.A.
You still have that new-car smell.
Not brand new. But still under warranty.
Where you from? She looks back at the stage, mesmerized.
Iowa.
Oh, yeah? Kentucky. We're practically related.
I thought you looked familiar. He smiles. As Ali sips her free beer, Jack stacks drinks on a tray for a DITSY WAITRESS. He slides the tray to her. She doesn't notice. He barks at her:
Hey_. Go.
They don't build 'em like this in Iowa, huh?
Hell no. I wouldn't have left. She stares up at the stage, marvels at the dancers.
So tell me -- who does a girl flirt with to get from here...  to there?
Is this you flirting?
With someone wearing more eyeliner than me? He laughs. Points across the club to A DOOR leading backstage.
Ask for Tess. She's your guy. Flirt away. As she heads off--
Hey, Iowa-- use my name. He hands her a card. She looks at it:
Thanks, Jack. She smiles, slips it in her cleavage and heads for the door.
Excuse me. I'm looking for Tess.
 So am I. And sometimes, when the lights are dim, and I squint my eyes ...I can still see her. She switches to mascara. Sean, arms heavy with corsets, catches eyes with Ali, nods toward Tess: "that's her." Ali steps closer to Tess.
Hi. I'm a friend of Jack's, and I'm-
New in town.
Yes, and I'm--
Looking for a job.
Yes, and I--
Want to perform here.
Yes. Tess glances at Ali in the mirror. Then goes back to her mascara, unimpressed. Silence.
I'm a singer. A good one.
This is a dance show.
I can dance.
 Really? You a professional?
I'm a quick study.
Not on my dime. Tess stands, a final check in the mirror. Ali sees her chance
Okay, I get that you're busy so I won't waste any more of your time-- but this place-- I've just never seen anything like it before and I know I belong here. So, how can I be a part of it?
Twenty bucks at the door can make all your dreams come true. Tess strides out, not looking back. Ali sees the Girls trading glances, amused. She turns and leaves.
One Dewar's neat, one shot of Patron, and get this, tough-guy in the hat? He wants a Cosmo. Jack looks at her, surprised. Impressed.
One night. If I'm not 20 times better than boobs-for-brains over there, you don't have to pay me.
Her leg went behind her head!
Yeah, Coco's the real deal.
I want to do that.
She used to dance with the Joffrey Ballet. Nikki sang opera. Eva performed with Cirque. Everyone here's a pro.  And you're on!
Nikki, lined up with the other girls, peers between the curtains, spots Ali serving the drinks to a table.
What's she doing here?!
What'd she do to you?
She thought I was a drag queen! Stifled giggles from the girls.
Can't be the first time THAT'S happened. Nikki is about to haul off on Sean when the CURTAIN OPENS, and WHOOMP!
When he kisses me I get a thrill... The Cat MEOWS and slinks out from behind the bed. Ali pulls the crystal beads out of her pocket
And when he does that wiggle I can't keep still (ties the beads around the
Cause he's a tough lover.. .
Thanks. She heads back to the bar. As Jack loads her tray up, she stuffs her tips into her pocket-- SEES Sean, looking her up and down.
Okay, girl, time for Sean to give you a real tip. He ties her shirt up higher, undoes the top few buttons...
You got lips that could suck the chrome off a Peterbilt, but that matte is about as sexy as a bedpan.
Now baby, go show 'em what you got. He heads off. While Eva performs onstage, Ali delivers the drinks to a table of SCENESTERS as Eva winds up her act in a flurry of fierce ballet moves, finishing to APPLAUSE as... Ali notices someone waving her over. MARCUS GERBER. 31, boyishly handsome in jeans and a ringer tee. Gold Rolex, status sneakers. Charming. Charismatic. When Ali gets to him:
Dewar's on the rocks for me. Bottle of Dom for the table and-- (tosses a black AmEx on her tray, noticing her) --And tell Nikki I'm here. Ali starts away, then--
And you are?
 A member since 1991. Oh-kay. He smiles, wickedly handsome. Ali pivots and heads back to the bar. Before she can tell Jack the order:
Dewar's rocks, bottle of Dom, keep it coming.
So Asshole's a regular?
Marcus Gerber. Real estate guy.
He's with Nikki?
This week. Vince goes over to Marcus's table, shakes hands, joins him.
Who's that with him?
Technically your boss: Vince Scali. Tess's partner. And ex... Jack is about to lift the AmEx off the tray, when Sean swoops by and intercepts it.
A black AmEx! The backstage pass to life! He sees Coco walking by, swipes the AmEx in her cleavage. She shudders, then turns around and tips her ass up at him. He swipes the card again.
Access denied!
Now there's a first! Jack sees Ali laughing at their banter. She heads off with the tray of Dewar's and Dom as the "Prince Nez" number ends.
LIGHTS UP on TESS, CENTER STAGE as she begins a new number, "Long John Blues." A singing/spoken hilarious interlude. The Girls back her up.
She's on the verge.
That's what you said last time.
She has no choice. We owe a balloon payment of 100 grand on the first, she took out a second to buy me out of the condo. And she just got turned down for another loan today.
There's a handful of these clubs around town, I could buy one of them tomorrow.
But it wouldn't be in the heart of the Sunset Strip.
She's funny.
Thanks. My lines. Our secret. Jack gives Sean his drink. He walks off. MUSIC UP: An insanely cool version of Sly and Family Stone "Everybody Is A Star" mashed up with a Fosse-esque Burlesque rap.
Song CONTINUES over a SERIES OF SHOTS: IN ALI'S HOTEL ROOM, Ali plops down a bunch of BOOKS, OPENS The Golden Age of Burlesque", lays on her bed, petting her cat with her foot. She locks in on a photo of 20's-era Burlesque dancers over which we HEAR--
Nikki, do you even own a watch? Or do you measure time in Patron shots? Ali enters with a tray of drinks. Nikki swipes one.
Hey, no, that's for -- Nikki opens a bottle, pops 3 pills in her mouth, washes them down with the drink, and sets the empty glass on Ali's tray.
You, I guess. Nikki turns to the mirror and starts getting to work. As Ali hands out the other drinks:
Tess? Do you have a second? Tess doesn't answer. But a slight glance at Ali in the mirror shows she's half-listening.
I was thinking -- see, I grew up listening to all this music, I'd play the records over and over --
Fast-forward, babe. I gotta rebuild Rome in the next two minutes--
Now see-- that's what I've been thinking about. There's one thing I don't get.
Just one?
It's the vocals. You have the girls lip-synching. which is fine, I guess, but wouldn't it be so much better if they actually sang? The Girls trade looks, knowing Ali's overstepping here. Ali doesn't feel the vibe-shift, surges ahead.
I've been reading up on it, and back when burlesque started, that's what they did. Silence. Nobody moves. All eyes on Tess.
Oh, no she didn't? Tess slowly spins around in her chair to face Ali. Peers at her with a supercilious gaze.
"When burlesque started"? Which was...when?
 Oh. Well... this book said it came after...
Vaudeville -- is the word you're looking for. Derived from the 15th- century French expression "voix de ville" -- "voice of the city". Popular songs of the time that were strung together into stage shows. Which, over time, gave birth to another kind of show in which talented girls showing a bit more skin danced, did skits, and, _ yes, sang. In addition to being raunchier, these shows were funnier, hence the new name. "Burlesque": "comical" in French. Ali sees the Girls enjoying this dressing-down immensely. Tess stands, peers down her nose at Ali.
Dance major. Juilliard. I did my thesis on Burlesque.
Oh. Ok. It's just-- It's just that ...I CAN sing and--
We can all sing. But they don't come to hear us sing. They come to see the best dancers in town backed by the greatest singers in history.  But tell you what: when you find someone with better pipes than Sarah Vaughn, Billie Holiday and Etta James-- you let me know. She sashays out leaving Ali standing there with what's left of her dignity and an empty cocktail tray. The Girls launch back into prepping for the show.
Georgia? You okay in there? A FLUSH. The stall door opens. Georgia comes out shakily with mascara-smudged eyes, sweet as ever.
I don't know why they call it morning sickness when it hits at every freakin hour of the day. She rinses her mouth out at the sink.
There aren't many women who could dance the Charleston on a chair at - - what are you, three months? Georgia turns sideways to the mirror, inspecting her bump.
Four. Can you believe my boyfriend hasn't noticed yet?
You haven't told him?
I guess as long as he doesn't know, I can still imagine he'll be happy about it.  Oh my God, look what the cat dragged in. She gets to work wiping away her smudged mascara.
You look pretty hot to me. Georgia reaches into her corset, yanks one breast skyward, then does the same to the other.
Yeah, well -- you take what Mother Nature gave you and milk the hell out of it, right? Coco enters carrying a glass of tonic for Georgia.
Thanks, Coco.
I had to pee. Is that okay with you?
Not when you're blocking my mirror it's not. Ali sees she's in the way. As she steps aside:
 That's us. You okay, or are you gonna puke on me during the number?
I can't make any promises. Coco drags her out, leaving Ali alone. Ali looks at herself in the mirror. Reaches into her shirt and does the boob-hoist that Georgia did. Looks again. Better.
Hey! They tear past her. She shakes her head, reaches her landing, heads down the hall toward her room, then sees: HER HOTEL ROOM DOOR, ajar. The lock broken.
No. No! She runs down the hall.
No!!! God damn it!!! She looks out the window, SEES the ROBBERS running off, disappearing down the street. She kicks the trash can. It flies across the room.
Damn it! Damn it, damn it, damn it, damn it, damn it! She sees the cat watching her from behind the bed.
A lotta help you were. The cat creeps out, slinks around her legs. Ali plunks on the bed.
Shit. Then she sees, on the floor, the PHOTO she took from Nanna's. She picks it up. The glass has cracked, tearing the picture.
Ali? What's wrong? You okay? She tries to speak, but can't -- so she just nods.
Really? Cause, in my experience-- when you're on someone's doorstep surrounded by everything you own, there's usually a not-so-good story
And as she expected, as soon as she talks, she starts to cry.
Shit. No way!
 Came in -- busted the lock-- and stole all my MO-NEY-EY-EY-EY!!! She sobs--trying to talk, with high-pitched SQUEAKS only heard by birds. Jack winces, trying to follow--
 And there's no way I-- sleep there-- with-- like that-- the manager said- - not till Monday-- and I don't-- anyone else-- but then-- so I remembered I had...but it went straight to...so I... She reaches in her pocket, pulls out a card. It's Jack's that he gave her in the club. It has his address on it.
Okay. I have no idea what you just said, but come on in here and we'll get it sorted out. She looks at him. Wiping her tears. He picks up the heaviest of her bags and leads her to:
Have a seat. I'll get us BOTH a drink. Here -- He hands her his phone. She looks at it.
-- call whoever you want, long- distance, whatever--
I can't.
Sure you can. Go ahead. Her chin starts quivering all over again.
I.. .don't ...have anyone.
What do you mean?
To call.
No parents?  Siblings? Aunts? Uncles?
Okay. Wait. No, stop, stop, stop, it's okay, it's fine. You'll crash here. No problem. Just, please -- no more crying. She nods. He grabs a bottle of Tequila and a couple of glasses. Pours them a couple. They both take a drink.
Better? She nods.
Okay. Good. She wipes her eyes.
Just for one night, I swear. Just till it's light outside and I can figure out my next move.
Deal. Then she opens her small bag and the cat strolls out.
Whoa, whoa, you didn't say anything about a cat.
What? You don't like cats? It slinks around his leg. He shakes it off.
I hate cats.
How can you hate a cat?
It's easy, I'll show you. The cat bolts into the bedroom.
Where's it going? If that thing pees on my bed --
He goes outside. We just have to open a window. He's very independent. She opens the window. The cat scurries back in, leaps onto the ledge. Ali pets him. Looks at Jack, smiles.
I don't have a name for him yet. It purrs. Jack eyes it warily.
One night?
One night.
You're good.
Thanks.
Why don't you play at the club?
Make more money bartending.
You in a band?
Was... Guitarist moved to Reno, Drummer went to med school, bassist is in rehab. I'm subbing around town till I regroup. This is for a punk fusion band -- their keyboardist is a flake, so they call me a lot.
Hey... He stops playing again.
Why'd you leave Kentucky?
Why'd you leave Iowa?
Cause I looked around and realized there wasn't one person whose life I wanted.
Exactly. A beat. Then as he starts playing again:
Hey Jack? He stops again.
Thank you. I'm really glad I'm not alone tonight. He smiles.
Get some sleep.
Aauuuugggghh. He hurls the cat away and bolts out of bed, disgusted.
Morning. Coffee?
She's pretty. Your sister?
My fiancee. Natalie.
Fiancee? You're straight?
Of course I'm straight. You thought I was gay?
Yes?
Why?
I don't know, the...make-up?
It's a look.
Okay.
A straight look.
Okay.
Natalie. As Ali realizes she's barely dressed in front of a straight guy.
I should put on pants.
Probably. She bolts out to the living room, starts digging through her bag, bent over. She's in the doorway, so from the kitchen, all he can see is her cute little ass sticking out.
Where is she?
New York. Doing a play.
For how long?
Six more weeks. She can't find pants. She shifts, so now her ass is facing him directly. He tries not to look--
For what?
I don't know. Now that you're straight and engaged, it feels weird that I came here.
Well, you did, and it was fine. Aha! Pants. She pulls them out, starts putting them on. He looks out. Her foot is caught in the pants leg. As she hops around, trying to untangle it--
Or at least it will be as soon as you get dressed. She tumbles out of view, thumps against some furniture. She appears in the doorway, pants on, pulling on a sweater. She slips her feet into her shoes.
Alrighty then-- I'll get outta your hair now...
Wait, where're you headed?
Oh, don't worry about me. I've got a plan.  Come on, cat. She zips the cat into the bag he came in.
Hang on, let me at least spot you some cash. I'm a little strapped, but I could --
No, I'm good, if you could just She nods at the door. He opens it for her.
Thank you. For everything. You are my knight in shining... eyeliner.
 I'll see you at the club.
Cool. She leaves. He closes the door behind her. Stands there.
So, this plan of yours?
.was to sit here at the bus stop and come up with a plan.
Come back inside.
No, Jack, I--
I'll figure it out, this is not
It's pouring!
It's only water for chrissakes--
Jack-- you've done enough and-- In ONE MOVE he SCOOPS HER up as she lets out a WHOOOOP!
Jack-- No! Stop it! He grabs her bags and carries her back across the street--
Look, you have nowhere to go, I have a couch. You may as well stay here for a few days.
You really don't need to do that. I'll be fine --
You'll be homeless. You always have this much trouble saying yes when someone is trying to help you?
It's never happened before. The Cat jumps up on the back of a chair, all wet, and SHAKES, splattering them with wet cat smell.
Aaaaargh! As his PHONE RINGS.
There's a towel in the bathroom-- dry yourself and that damn cat off.
Okay, front row, thank you very much. They walk off stage, dismissed. Tess turns to Sean.
What happened to all the great dancers in L.A?
They're busy "Dancing with the Stars."  Last group, please. HALF A DOZEN DANCERS move to the stage. Ali watches from behind the bar, thinking. Then, on her face, we see: an idea forming. ON THE FLOOR, Tess and Sean check their clipboards, organizing for this next set. They look up and start in:
All right, ladies, and five, six, seven -- whoa. There, in the back row, is Ali, in her white platform shoes.
What the hell do you think you're doing? Coco and Georgia ENTER-- surprised to see Ali on stage.
Trying out.
I don't think so.
Tess, I've been singing and dancing my whole life and--
The girls here have years of training and experience. This stage is for serious and professional
 Hey_. This is your club and you can be as rude as you want--but don't you dare tell me I'm not serious. Sean's eyebrows reach for the ceiling as Nikki enters, SEES Ali on stage.
I may not have been to a professional dance school, but I have a lot of talent and I came to this town to do something with it. And the only reason I've been putting up with all the bullshit "attitude" I get from you is cause I want to do it here.
One song. You don't like it, I'll quit and do us both a favor.
Which one do you wanna see? Tess looks at her in disbelief.
I said, which one do you wanna see? Ali just stares at her. Calling her bluff, Tess yells up to DAVE in the sound booth--
Tough Lover! Tess plops down in a booth-- crosses her arms indignantly. ON STAGE, the music starts. Ali readies herself, starts to dance. Behind a beat to two. She's got the steps right, but it isn't clicking. She's thinking too hard. No personality. After a few measures, Tess has seen enough.
Okay then, next?
Hang on.  Start it again, please? As Dave resets the music. Ali regroups: takes her hair down and shakes it loose. Nikki ENTERS, SEES Ali on stage--
Shhhh. On stage, Ali takes a beat; inhales, breathing in attitude. Then she looks up at the booth again.
Anytime. The MUSIC starts in again. And this time, Ali comes alive. She may not have perfect technique or the best extension, but she exudes an ambition and sexuality no one has seen from her before. It's like she becomes a woman before our eyes. She misses a step or two, but who the hell cares? On the floor, Sean gapes, eyes popping. Tess is poker-faced. Coco and Georgia's expressions turn from dubious to respectful. Nikki's eyes narrow. At the bar, Jack freezes, a huge rack of glasses in his arms - - unable to tear his eyes away.
What are so you happy about, that's your replacement.
Yeah, but she's really good. Tess and Ali are in a stare down.
I want so badly to say something bitchy, but nothing's coming.
There's a first. Tess sighs, not wanting to give Ali any props.
You were off the whole second half.
So, I was spot on the first half? Tess narrows her eyes at Ali. Then looks over at Nikki, Coco and Georgia. Georgia gives an effusive THUMBS UP-- then suddenly becomes overcome by nausea, covers her mouth and RUNS to the bathroom to puke-- Tess rolls her eyes, looks back at Ali.
Oh, you're gonna be such a pain in my ass. Ali tries hard not to beam--
Do I have the job, or not?
You're not great. What you are is lucky. Because I need someone tonight.
And I know all the routines. As Tess turns and leaves--
Even in those shoes that time forgot.
Theeeere's bitchy. Nikki watches Tess go-- turns and pours herself a shot.
Well-- this totally sucks ass. Sean jumps up on the stage.
Congratulations. The last time someone showed Tess balls like that, she married him.  You look like a checker at a Mal Wart in Wichita. Just tripled your salary. Get a new look.
Hey, I happen to like the way I look.
Really? That's a fascinating story. And then what happens?
Sorry for the short notice, I quit!  But hey-- with my raise I'll be off your couch in a week. She squeezes him tight-- then heads backstage leaving him standing there, really turned on.
First number, second number, third number... She catches the clothes. He dumps shoes on top of them, holding them up as he tells her what they go with:
With the sequined bustier. With the shorts and garters. With the beaded number. And those --  I never want to see again.
For "Miss Otis Regrets". Just be sure you don't -- Ali pulls the trigger. BOOM -- GLITTER SPLATS all over Sean.
Pull the trigger.
Admit it. You like her. It kills you, but you like her. Tess meets his eye, then walks away. The number ends. The girls rush offstage and peel their costumes off.
My tits are up around my ears, my thong's about a mile up up ass, this corset is so tight, I haven't breathed since Tuesday and these lashes are thick enough to kick up a stiff wind.
It's fun being a girl, huh?
I'm starving, who wants to go grab some pizza before the next show? A general chorus of "Yeah?" and "I'm in." FOLLOW Ali to the bathroom as she throws on her clothes and washes off her make-up, humming "Rich Man's Frug" to herself. She heads back out to the dressing room to find: EVERYONE IS GONE. She looks around. Feels like an fool. She plunks down in a chair. Drops her bag on the floor. Looks at herself in the mirror.
Your brush is for shit. She turns and sees Tess in the doorway. Tess comes over, takes Ali's brush. Looks at it.
Where'd you get this, the 99 cent store? She chucks it in the trash.
Hey.
Make-up is like wine. The good stuff costs a fortune but is worth every penny. Where is everyone?
All the girls went out for pizza.
Aren't you one of the girls?
Apparently not. Tess reads her like a book. Knows what went down. She turns to leave, then pauses at the door. Turns back.
Don't take it personally. Their love's the kind you gotta earn. Ali meets her eyes in the mirror. Then Tess grabs a brush from her own station, tosses it to Ali.
Dip it in water first, or you'll never get a clean line. She leaves Ali alone.
Your stupid cat peed in the tub!
What...?  You closed the window, what do you expect?
Your cat pees in the house, and it's my_ fault?! Ali scoops the cat up.
Awwww. Poor guy, you must have been desperate.
Goddamn cat. And you used my towel again.  How's that apartment hunting coming? He GRABS the newspaper and tosses it in front of her-- she glares at him, then glances at the paper--
Can you really put a price on privacy? Freedom? Your own bathroom? With clean towels?
Okay, Jack-- I get it-- His cell phone rings. As he checks who's calling:
Natalie.  Hey, baby, how are you? He heads into the bedroom, closes the door. Ali shakes her head, begins to peruse the classifieds.
Guest studio, Hollywood, $900, with a yard, and -- oh. No pets.  Screw them. She scans the ads some more. Finds a good one.
Ooh? Jack walks in. Looks like he's got something on his mind.
I think I found my new place. Where's Pomona?
Go to Hell, turn left, it's three miles down on the right.
Really. How's Beachwood Canyon?
Great, if you have a car.
I'm gonna suck it up and let you stay here a little longer. Just throw in a little something for rent. She looks at him, curious.
What about the "God damn" cat?
Hey, I don't like the cat. And I don't like my towel being wet. I don't like the lack of privacy. But you're in a jam -- and I'm the kind of guy, if a friend's in trouble, I help. It's just who I am.
Nothing, you know just... hi. She narrows her eyes at him. He concedes.
And...her play got extended three more months, so since she has to pay rent there, she can't also keep up her part of the rent here.
Ah-hah.
So if you could stick around and chip in, it would --
Save your ass?
-- help. Ali looks down at his shoes.
Well, will you look at that? The shoe, on the other foot!
One minute I'm a freeloader with a God damn cat, the next, I'm the only thing standing between you and
Just -- yes or no?
What's the proposal, exactly? Jack looks at her-- realizes he's screwed.
The bedroom, with private bathroom access, for 600 a month, including utilities.
Closet?
Half . Ali picks up the paper, reads an ad.
Ooh, look! Hot tub!
Fine. The closet, too. She weighs it. Makes him suffer. Then:
Okay.
Thank you.
So I said to the sailor, I may not be as good as I once was...
But you can bet your sweet ass I'm better ONCE than I ever was... The crowd laughs. Tess points to a woman who isn't laughing.
Drink up, sister! You're a tad behind.  Be a dear and bring Mommy over there another scotch. The crowd chuckles as the Bumper Band kicks in and the harem scene evolves into a sexy tongue-in-cheek silhouetted dance.
The distributor's holding back the booze unless we cut him a check.
Ply him with drinks, send Scarlett over to flirt, and try to finagle him down to a half.
How's a third? He produces a check, all filled-out, for her to sign.
Have I told you lately that I love you?
Got any brothers?
Drinking already?
Yes, Mommie.
You're drunk.
No. But I'm working on it. Nikki totters a little. Tess looks her over.
I'm pulling you from this number. Go home, wring yourself out, and come back tomorrow.
You can't pull me-- Tess SPOTS Ali heading for the dressing room--
Ali! Take Nikki's spot.
WHAT?! That bitch can't dance my part!
Ali-- get dressed NOW! Ali looks at Nikki-- who GLARES at her--
But, wait-- Tess-- that's always been Nikki's number. Tess looks at her-- she's really had it with these girls--
But this is MY club, and now it's your number. Ali looks between the two of them, Nikki glaring at her--
Is there a problem? You said you know the whole show.
Ali and the other dancers hit the stage and start in on the vampy "TOUGH LOVER." AT THE BAR, Jack is busy mixing drinks. He glances at the stage, then DOUBLE-TAKES on Ali, looking crazy gorgeous. She vamps forward with the girls, they rotate singing into the prop mic.
Tess needs you. She said it was urgent.
I can't leave here now --
Fine, but don't say I didn't warn you...
Shit, okay -- He checks his sound board -- then bolts from the room. Nikki watches him go LOOKS DOWN onto the STAGE as ALI STEPS to
You wanted to see me? ON STAGE -- Ali looks at flustered Tess...the girls...the audience. Panic. On the floor, Nikki watches with satisfaction as she makes her way over to Marcus. Enjoying the train wreck she caused. Then -- in a flash, Ali turns to the audience, and SINGS a'capella from the TOP OF THE SONG.
She looks around. Silence. Mouths agape. Tess approaches in
 Close the Goddman curtain!
Hold on... Ali starts to sing again, her version, slow, and sexy...
Coco and Scarlett chime in on back-up. Hearing them, Jessie and Anna join in as well. Ali takes off, holding nothing back. The girls feed off her confidence, and soon all of them are hitting the backs of their cabaret chairs, stomping their feet to the music. The girls singing back-up. In his seat, Marcus sits up a little straighter -- suddenly paying more attention. Unable to take his eyes off Ali. The BAND plays along. The BARTENDERS accompany them with hand-claps. All except Jack, who's too spellbound to move.
Tess, when the music stopped--
Why didn't you tell me you I have no idea what happened. could blow like that?
I did. Tess spots a TATTOOED BAND GUY in the door.
Do you boys know all the music?
Okay, then. Tomorrow night, Ali sings lead, everyone else is back- up. Questions? Ali can't keep from beaming as she shakes her head, no!
Good. The Girls file into the dressing room. Tess heads out, past Nikki.
"People don't come to hear us sing."
No. But they'll come to hear her sing. Dry out and maybe you can back her up. She leaves. Nikki scowls. Sean grabs Ali.
Bitch, you SANG that damn song! He heads off to the dressing room, too, leaving Nikki and Ali alone together. Their eyes meet.
One of us has clearly underestimated the other. She tosses her glass in the trash and leaves Ali alone.
Where'd you learn to sing like that? She turns. Marcus is there. Handsome, charming and devious as ever.
You can't learn to sing like that.
Well, you're too good to be singing here.
I just got into the show and suddenly I'm too good for it? Shrugs, "but, you are" then--
How about a drink?
Sure. Jack's at the bar. Tell him I sent you. It's on me.
But I hate lines. AT THE BAR - Jack looks up, SEES Ali and Marcus talking. BACK ON MARCUS who looks Ali up and down.
Seriously. You sound even better than you look. Which is saying a lot.
Talk about a "line." She smiles, amused, and heads away from him, toward the bar. He watches her go. Tess intercepts Ali.
What did he want?
Directions to the bar. As Ali heads off. Tess glances back at Marcus, mistrustful.
You blew me away! Who knew you could sing like that?
Who knew any white chick could sing like that? You channeled that shit.
How the hell do you do that, girl?
I don't know, I can't explain it. It's like -- I start singing, and something starts to move inside me. It's in my hands, my feet, my gut,
She runs her hands over her body as she describes it. Jack watches her -- holy smokes. Sean notices his gaze on her.
and it just builds and builds till I feel like I'm gonna explode.
Trust me, I know what that feels like. I have to pee. Again. She hops off the stool and scurries to the back. Coco stands, to leave. Looks at Ali.
Wanna grab something to eat? Ali looks back at Coco -- validated. Accepted. At last.
Yeah. Lemme get my bag. Ali moves off. Coco goes to get her coat. Sean sees Jack still watching Ali as she walks across the room.
Well, will you look at that.
What?
You looking at that girl the way I looked at you all those years. Only difference: you actually stand a chance with her.
I have a fiancee.
Three thousand miles away.
We talk every day.
Let me guess what about: her, her and...oh! Her. Jack shoots him a glare.
All I'm saying is, this one's beautiful on the inside too. And she won't be on the shelf forever. Ali comes back, ready to go. Feels them stop talking and look at her.
What?
I was just explaining to Jack that even opportunity has a shelf life. Jack grabs a trash bag and takes it out back. Sean looks at Ali more closely. He brushes her hair out of her face. Then he holds it off her shoulders and raises that gay eyebrow. - INT. SALON - DAY - Ali sits in front of a mirror while Sean gives the HAIRDRESSER very specific instructions. - INT. JACK'S APARTMENT, AT HIS KEYBOARD, Jack plays a high- energy style piano which runs over a QUICK SEQUENCE: It's the instrumental music to: "BUT I'M A GOOD GIRL." - INT. BURLESQUE LOUNGE - The Burlesque Girls dance on stage, performing a high-energy tap dance, coupled with a European slap-dance, with the slapping of each other's bodies and faces integrated with tapping and music. It's very cabaret, but modernized with contemporary STEPPING. CARRY MUSIC: - INT. SALON - LATER - The HAIRDRESSER spins the chair around. Ali's her hair is platinum blonde, with bangs and a Louise Brooks bob that frames her face beautifully. Her smoky eyes pop like never before. Ali studies herself:
Where have I been all my life?
Hiya, big boy. She spins herself around on a bar stool, so he can see all angles. Jack likes plenty. Way too much.
What do you think?
Jack. It's okay for you to think I look hot. We're friends for chrissakes. It's not like we're brother and sister.
Why the hell is everyone having a conniption over her? She's just a tacky, pushy girl from a -- Ali -- sexy, sophisticated, gorgeous -- enters.
-- fly-over state. Ali pretends she didn't hear. She sits at her mirror. The girls stare at her, mouths agape. Ali picks up her mascara wand, looks down the mirror at Nikki's reflection.
Vince, if I were going to sell, I'd have sold to those idiots building that monstrosity across the street. I said no.
Which made Marcus bump his offer up again. It's obscene, what he wants to give us. At least hear him out.
It's very simple. I buy you out and pay you a million off the top.  Five hundred grand each. Tess looks up from the contract, squints at Marcus.
Why do you want this club so badly?
Best view on the Sunset Strip.
Do you know what you could do with that money, Tess?
Do you know what you can do with that money, Vince?
Be reasonable. We're rolling vendors ninety days out.
The club's not even worth what you paid for it. You've got a second mortgage, you can't get a third. Tess looks at Vince, betrayed.
Did you also tell him about the tattoo on my ass?
It's business, Tess. Not personal.
My business. Which I built from the ground up.
You're not gonna get another opportunity like this.
Exactly. She looks at a photo on her wall: the Burlesque Girls, in all their glory.
Which is why I'll never let it go. She gets up, opens the door, ushering them out. Marcus shoots Vince an angry look as they head downstairs. IN THE STAIRWELL, Vince reassures Marcus:
Don't worry. The balloon payment's due on the first. She doesn't have the money. She has to sell. IN TESS'S OFFICE, Tess stands in the doorway, having heard. Then she walks back to her desk and sits, dejected. Head in her hands. For the first time ever, looking worried and defeated. Something she'd never show anyone. A beat. Then:
Well. We've had a pretty good run. She looks up. Sean is in the doorway.
Maybe it's time to just.. .hang it up. Let it go. Call it a day. Tess's eyes go steely with determination.
No. You cannot say that to me. I can eat these "sky is falling" dipshits for breakfast, lunch, and dinner, but not YOU. You cannot be that person. I've scoured dirty flea markets for costumes, stayed up all night sewing till my fingers bled, painted and repainted every goddamn wall of this place myself.
I choreographed every step of every number. I've played nursemaid, sister, mother and shrink to every girl who's ever danced here. I've hocked every keepsake I've ever owned to keep this place afloat. Because this club is the last of it's kind, and if it goes away, one day there won't be anything like it- - and THAT would be a tragedy. So you cannot say that to me. Because now someone's gotta believe in me, Goddamnit. And I need that person to be you. So don't you ever let me hear you say that again. I will never let this club go. Never. Sean looks at her...a wry smile.
There she is. Thought I'd lost you for a minute. Tess just looks at him, and smiles. He grabs a boa, throws it around his neck and exits. When he's gone, Tess's smile fades. IN THE CLUB, the place is empty. Jack is wiping down the bar cleaning up. He starts stacking some chairs in the house as..SEAN CROSSES the floor.
Night, Jack.
Night. Sean EXITS as Jack carries a stack of chairs to the side of the room, sets them down near the piano. STOPS, grabs a chair for himself and sits down. Begins to play an original song. ACROSS THE ROOM, Ali ENTERS from backstage. Her dance bag over her shoulder. She HEARS the piano, peers around a column, SEES Jack playing. She stays in the shadows and watches as he sings and plays a beautiful song. The song ends. Ali applauds slowly. Impressed. Jack looks up, surprised that she is there.
Beautiful. You write that?
Just some sentimental crap. Ready?
Jack? Jack zips back to the door, opens it quietly, then SLAMS it.
Hey! Just got home! Ali grabs a dress from her bed, slips into it.
In here! Can you zip me up? In a nanosecond-- Jack enters the bedroom.
Hey. Where you been?
Rehearsing. I'm playing a late show tonight. As he zips up the back of her dress, he sees the PHOTO propped against the lamp on the bedside table.
Who is that? She picks up the picture. Looks at it.
Me and my mom on my 7th birthday. She died just a few weeks later.
She was so young.
24. There was so much she never got to do. Sometimes I feel like, if I make the most of my life, part of her will get to live a little more, too.
Wow. You must miss her. She puts the photo down. Turns back to him. They're close.
Every single day, something happens I want to tell her about.
What was today's? A beat. Their eyes connect.
Don't know. Hasn't happened yet. They stand there, close to each other. Jack sees a strand of hair caught in the earring. He pulls it away, freeing it. His fingers move through her hair. She closes her eyes, feeling his fingers against her neck. Then she opens her eyes, looks at him. He looks back, unable to look away. Until: His CELL PHONE RINGS. Breaking the mood. He pulls it from his pocket. Checks who's calling. Looks back at Ali.
I should... it's... Natalie. Ali steps away from him, disappointed. He answers the phone.
Hey, babe, how are you? Ali watches him walk away from her, falling into the conversation with Natalie.
Yes, she's still here-What do you want me to do, it's not like you're here helping out, you know...
Hey -- when can you cut out? I'm about to fall asleep standing up.
I have that gig, remember? In fact, I gotta head out or I'm gonna be late.  I can maybe swing you home before.
No, that's okay, you go. I'll grab a ride with Coco. He grabs his jacket from under the bar. As he heads out:
By the way -- you killed.
 Thanks.
You ready?
For what?
I'll drop you off.
Excuse me?
Sorry-- I was coming to talk to you and caught the end of your conversation.
 Talk to me about...?
Dinner. With me. Gimmie that. He swoops down and GRABS her dance bag and purse, turns and heads out.
Hey...! Come back here...!
Where are you taking me?
I told you-- to dinner.
Dinner? What about Nikki-- What's up with you and Nikki?
We're friends.
Where I'm from friends don't chew each other's earlobes.
Aren't you glad you left?  Oh, damn!
What?
I just remembered I have to make a quick appearance at a party.
You just remembered.
It's on the way. We'll be quick. Ten minutes, tops. Do you mind?
And if I do.
Then you've been kidnapped. He turns off Sunset and heads up into the hills.
Wow. Nice house.
Hey, Marcus --
Hey, how you doing? He shakes the guy's hand and moves on through the party. Someone else calls out to him.
Marcus!
Hey, let me get a drink, I'll be
Marcus pulls Ali in the opposite direction, avoiding another GROUP trying to greet him. He grabs two wine glasses off a tray, gives one to Ali, then pushes through a door into:
Marcus -- you can't just take that.
He hands her one tray, sticks a bottle of wine in one pocket, throws an opener in another.
They're gonna throw us out of here.
Not if we sneak out first, come on. He kicks open a back door.
Up there. He starts up some steps to an outdoor gazebo. Ali follows. They pass AN INCREDIBLY WELL-DRESSED COUPLE coming down.
Hey, Marcus --
Hey, Guys. Greg, Marla, this is Ali. They exchange hellos. Ali notices:
Ooh. Killer shoes.
Aren't they? Louboutins.
Glad you could come. Ali stares at Marcus. He smiles, takes her hand, keeps leading her up the stairs.
You had to make an appearance at your own party?
Would've been rude not to, right? You'd like those guys. Greg's the entertainment editor at the Times, and Marla's a designer. Ali glances back at Marla again, locks in on her shoes.
I'm gonna dream about those shoes.
Thousand dollars a pop.
Jesus. Who can afford that?
I can.
Hey, I saw them first. He laughs as they reach the top of the stairs and a BREATHTAKING PANORAMIC VIEW OF THE ENTIRE CITY is revealed. Ali pauses, taking in the glittering, massive view of L.A.
Whoa. L.A. looks one hell of a lot prettier from up here.
It should. That view cost me three times what the house did.
You own that too?
No. I own everything above it.
There is nothing above it.
Exactly.
You own...air?
Air rights. The guy who owns the strip mall was having money issues and almost had to sell. Whoever he sold to would have put in a huge tower. So I bought the air rights. Now no one can ever build above one story.
Aren't you the sly puss.
Mall guy gets to keep his property. I get to keep the second best view in L.A.
What's the first? He gazes at her. She rolls her eyes.
How many girls have you used that on?
None who ever called me on it. He smiles. Looks at her. Then...
What do you want, Ali? In life. Girl like you, gives up everything, gets on a bus heading for total uncertainty-- she's got a dream. I want to know what it is.
Why?
Because you're talented enough to get whatever you want. And I'm smart enough to help make it happen. So? What do you want? A beat. She thinks about it. Looks him in the eye.
I want to be the best singer I can be. I want to give as much joy as I get when I perform. And I want to die knowing I made the most of every opportunity life gave me.
That's ...so beautiful.
There wasn't a dry eye in the house when I said it at the Grundy County Junior Miss Talent Show. His eyes narrow.
Why do you women always take advantage of nice boys?
Oh, please. You are SO not a nice boy. He clinks her glass. Smiles at her. Devilish and sexy.
Ooh, I love this song. The Piano Player scoots to make room. She sits beside him. He starts humming along. She does too. Then he sings a line. She sings one back. And they fall in together. Not vamping, not performing. Just feeling the beauty of the music in the middle of the night.
Ali? He looks in. Empty. He checks the clock: 4:45. He hears a "meow", and sees the cat. He picks it up, turns out the light, and leaves the room.
Someone has a package! Ali sees A GIFT BOX at her station. She reads the card: "You saw them first." She opens the box and sees the Louboutins.
Ooh. Faboo. Nikki picks one up -- checking their authenticity.
Who's the sucker? All eyes turn to Ali. She's saved by Tess entering.
Coco-puff, shake a leg, you're on in five, Georgie-Girl, Ali-Cat -- move, move, move -- Tess exits.
Ahh. My Nanna used to call me her Ali-Cat.
Yet another fascinating story.
Why doesn't Tess have a nickname for me?
Oh, she does. A knowing look amongst the girls.
She never uses it.
Sure she does.
When?
Just after you leave the room. Nikki gives him the finger and walks out. A beat. Then:
Coke-whore. They crack up. CUE MUSIC: "STRANGE THINGS HAPPENING"
You were out late last night.
I got a ride home with that guy-- Marcus-- we went to a party. It was fun.
Marcus the Asshole?
Yeah. Turns out he's not so bad. She heads past him, toward the kitchen. He notices:
New shoes?
There's only one reason a man buys a woman shoes, you know.
So what if I'm getting a little male attention.
You get a lot more than a little.
Not from anyone who matters.
And I just think that -- if you really feel the need to tell a girl what she should and shouldn't do, you should pick up the phone and call your fiancee.
After she passes... Jack's eyes open.
Hey. Have you seen this?
What? Ali wanders out of the bathroom, brushing her teeth. He shows her the paper. She SCREAMS.
That's bullshit.
No. That's major.
 Look again. The only thing major is the size of your ass. Nikki walks off-- Scarlett pick up the paper, looks closer-- Ali enters, dance bag over her shoulder, running late. The Burlesque Girls and Sean all APPLAUD  Ali smiles. Embarrassed. She curtsies sarcastically. Coco points to a BOUQUET OF ROSES at Ali's station.
From Monsieur Louboutin, I presume. Ali reads the card: "To the best view in L.A. - M". Sean shoves her down in her seat, pulls her coat off.
Shake your tail, Alicat, you still got a show to do.
To the girl of the hour.
I'm starting to think you'll go to any length.
Well-- I appreciate the kudos.  And Tess appreciates the business.
This has NOTHING to do with Tess. This is about you. And me.
You are so full of it. He laughs-- takes her arm--
I've got another friend I want you to meet. She sees HAROLD SAINT sitting in the booth. He's in his 60's, still dressing like Robert Evans in his heyday.
Ali Rose, Harold Saint.
Her, she chewed me up and spat me out, that one. But with her voice, I forgive her everything.
Thank you.
You ever recorded?
Not yet.
We should do something about that. He stands. Turns to Marcus.
See you round, kiddo. He points his finger, gun-style, which would seem cheesy, but he's old school, so instead it's weirdly cool. He leaves.
Holy shit. Harold Saint. AT THE BAR, Jack watches Ali and Marcus talking excitedly. Not liking what he sees. Sean breezes by, grabs a drink.
You snooze, you lose, pretty boy.
Can you believe this crowd? He dumps the costumes in her arms.
'bout time. These poor babies are begging for your glue-gun. Tess walks off with the armful of clothes, so happy, humming to herself, passes her OFFICE-- OPENS the door to SEE-- VINCE is sitting at her desk. He flinches at the sight of her-
Can you believe the crowd out there? Never thought I'd see- She stops in her tracks, spotting Vince's PANTS on the FLOOR, and a TRAIL OF WOMEN'S CLOTHES to... THE NEW COCKTAIL WAITRESS, peering out, half-dressed, from behind the curtains--
Tess. We need to talk. Tess rolls her eyes, doesn't slow.
Not now, Nikki.
Yes, now. I've been here since the beginning. We built this club together. And then some girl shows up out of nowhere-- who hasn't even paid her dues--
I'll get her to write a check tomorrow.
And suddenly it's her show?
No, it's not her show. It's my show. But people want to hear her sing. She's bringing them in off the streets. You better believe I'm building a show around her!
I can sing too! And you know it. But you don't give a shit. You always say this is a dance troupe, now suddenly it's not?
And you expect me to dance behind a girl who struts in with a new pair of shoes she got for sleeping with Marcus Gerber?
 Nikki, you're wasted. Go home.
I won't be upstaged by some slut with mutant lungs! Tess hurls the costumes in the trunk of her car, furious.
So don't be! Leave! If you don't want to be a part of what's happening here, then I don't want you around.
Since when do you care about friendship? Or this group? You're a trainwreck, Nikki! You put tequila on your breakfast cereal! I'm struggling to survive here, and you show up too drunk to dance! You call that loyalty? Nikki just looks at her--
Okay, then. I quit! Nikki stomps off. Tess sighs --
Marcus says you're losing the club anyway!
By the way: I slept with Vince the day after your honeymoon. Tess's eyes narrow. She grabs a HIGH-HEELED PUMP and HURLS it. It flies through the air and hits Nikki in the back of the head. Nikki SCREAMS, whips around, incredulous, to see: TESS, running right at her. Nikki bolts, heading for her car. She jumps in, locks the door just as Tess SMASHES her fist on the window and KICKS the door. Nikki starts the car.
You crazy bitch! Nikki screeches off, leaving Tess alone in the parking lot. Tess stands there a moment, then HEADS back into the club.
Night, Tess. Tess looks up, Dave is closing up the sound booth.
Night, Dave. Dave FLIPS a big lever, and almost all the lights go OUT, leaving one shaft of light across the stage. We HEAR Dave leave, as the street door closes shut. Tess alone on stage.
You really need to do that at 6 in the morning? He turns, sees her.
Little overdressed for breakfast.
My pajamas were in my bedroom. Which was occupied.
Well, you're never here so... it's stupid for me to crash on the couch every night when there's a perfectly good empty bed. Jack grinds the coffee beans again. Ali winces.
So -- you want the bedroom back? Is that what you're saying?
The bed should be used by someone.
Hey, I'm home every night. Maybe not when you think I should be, but last I checked, you were my roommate, not my mother.
However, since it's an issue, what the hell, take the bed, I'll sleep on the sofa. I don't care.
Fine.
Fine.
You'll have to move all your shit.
I realize that.
Cause the room's a total mess --
I'll move my stuff, God --
Clothes, make-up, shoes, hair things.
Jesus, Jack, what is your problem? Ever since I started hanging out with Marcus, you've been acting like a class-A prick. Is there something you want to say?
What? No. What do I care? You're ambitious, he can make things happen, go ahead, make a deal with the devil, what's it to me?
First of all: He's not the devil. He's a smart businessman. And oddly enough-- a gentleman.
And try not to kill the cat!
What do you mean, you're still in New York? ...So you just -- decided not to come? You think you might've wanted to, I don't know, let me know??? We haven't seen each other in six months. ACROSS THE TERRACE, Ali sees Jack yelling into his phone. Sean sees her watching.
.why does every conversation we have end up being about YOUR future... Jack looks across the terrace at Ali. Moonlight on her shoulders. A breeze in her hair.
.you know what, you're right. We both should be thinking about our futures. And I might just be looking at mine right now. Break a leg baby. Jack hangs up with finality and marches toward the bar-- His cell phone immediately rings again.
I guess Natalie's not coming after all.
Oh, please, that girl? Show up at a party where she's not the center of attention? AT THE BAR - LATER - Jack drains one drink and orders another, getting very drunk. Ali sidles up to the bar.
Lookin' kinda lonely.
Hey-- what're we, in junior high?
You still mad at me, Iowa? C'mon. Bring it on. She starts to say something as-- THE SHIRELLES start to sing "BABY IT'S YOU"-- Jack turns to the DJ, points both fingers at him and YELLS:
.Many many many nights go by, I sit alone, at home and cry, over you...
Well, you're quite the crooner. He looks her in the eye.
I'm sorry for being a class A prick. Ali smiles, surprised at his candor. He breathes a sigh of relief.
And as of about... (bleary look at his watch,
.some time ago, I am officially a single man.
You and Natalie split up?
That we did. So. That explains what I'm doing here all alone. What are you doing here all alone?
Do I look alone to you? They share a look. Then he spins her around in his arms. She laughs. AT THE BAR, tipsy Sean and Coco stand side-by-side. Coco is watching the DJ spin. The DJ glances down at them.
That DJ's hot.
You think?
He keeps looking at me. Coco smiles up at him, flirty. The DJ smiles back.
Hmmm...I think he's cuckoo for Coco- puffs. They look at each other, then crack up like giggling schoolgirls.
Whoopsie daisy -- PULL BACK to find Jack and Ali, drunk, staring at the keys on the ground.
Whoopsie daisy?
My Nanna used to say that all the time. That and upsie jumpsie.
Upsie jumpsie?  Upsie jumpsie, whoopsie daisy, upsie jumpsie, whoopsie daisy, upsie jumpsie --
When she wanted her dog to get on the bed with her. That is --
 The dog, or Nanna? Ali bursts out laughing. So does Jack, as he pushes the door open, and they fall into the apartment.
Help me. Jack gets the lamp to standing, then grabs one of Ali's boots, slides it off, dumps it. Then he tries the second -- it sticks -- he pulls harder -- the boot pops off and he careens backwards, crashing into the lamp, knocking it over again. Ali cracks up. He turns to the lamp.
 Stay. He turns back to Ali, regains composure, bows
Good night. He backs away, into the bedroom. Ali looks confused.
Oh. Okay.
Cute jammies.
A gift from my mother. Never worn them.
Go figure. Jack walks past Ali, toward the door.
Forgot to lock up.
Night again. He walks back into the bedroom and once gain shuts the door. Ali smiles to herself, plumps her pillow. The door flies open again -- Jack's there in just the pants, no top.
Water. No hangover. He stumbles past Ali to the kitchen, drinks from the tap. After a moment he returns to the bedroom, nodding to Ali.
Night. Ali just nods. He closes the door. Ali smiles, waiting. After a beat, the door opens again. Jack is there, in boxers.
Hungry. He walks past her to the kitchen, opens a box of cereal, pours it into his mouth. Grabs some milk from the fridge, pours it into his mouth, too. Returns to the bedroom, crunching. He closes the door. Then -- very quickly -- he opens it again and walks out.
I know I forgot something else, but I just can't remember what...
What's so funny? She covers her face. He glances down.
Well I never! He strides back to the bedroom, shutting the door. After a moment, he comes back out dressed in an old, flowered bathrobe and fur-lined orange hunting cap.
I remembered what I forgot to do.
What?
Well, it's official.
What?
You are definitely not gay. He smiles at her, drunk with lust. CAMERA PANS UP AND OFF OF
I've been wanting to do this since you first walked in the club. She cocks an eyebrow at him.
Sure got a funny way of showing it. He smiles at her.
I'll show you an even funnier way -- you ready? He disappears under the sheets. She SQUEALS, starts laughing hysterically. CAMERA PANS UP AND OFF OF THEM THEN DRIFTS
So, what about Natalie...?
Natalie who? Ali smiles. Rolls the stocking up over her shapely thigh, then slowly takes it off. Looks at Jack. He strikes his chest, struck by cupid--
Do it again. She giggles, repeats the sexy act for him. CAMERA PANS UP AND
Natalie! Ali blinks awake. Confused.
Natalie? Jack scrambles for something to put on.
YOU are a LIAR. You're a sneaky, pathetic LI-AR!
 What 's she doing here:
I don't know!
I LIVE HERE, you bleached out tramp, what the hell are YOU doing here?!!
 Nat, can we talk about this in the living room --
I can't BELIEVE I bought your bullshit: "It's nothing, she's just this chick from work, she's nothing."
You said that? No, I didn't --
He most certainly did! Nat-- shut the fu--
Jack?!? Don't even say his name! As Ali grabs for a shirt--
Listen, Ali-- let me just-- would you mind --
What?!?
Giving us a little privacy?
Yes you! I'm the fiancee. You're a booty call. You go.
Natalie, Jesus, STOP IT! Ali grabs some pants from the floor, pulls them on.
Fine, I'm out of here--  You said you split up!
In one phone call? Please, you don't dump a girl like me on the phone.
Both of you-- STOP IT! As Ali quickly grabs a few things--
Ali-- I'm really sorry-- I--
So am I. She gathers up more things, really pissed--
Wait-- do you need money for a Motel or... Ali stifles him with an incredulous glare-- can't believe how this is going down. She looks at him, so incredibly hurt. Grabs her suitcase and brushes past him, stuffing her belongings into it. Jack goes after her--
Ali, wait a second-- don't--  --go.
Oh. I'm sorry. I think I have the wrong apartment. I'm looking for Sean?  Brown hair? 5'10n? Early 30's?
Oh, Sean! I thought he said John. He's asleep. Come in.
That him? Ali nods. Sean's eyes pop open, confused to see her.
What are you doing here?
Long story. Sean notices the guy in the blanket.
Ali, this is Mike.
Mark.
Mark???
I'll make it. You two get acquainted.
Hey gorgeous.
Oh. Marcus.
Who's that?
Mark. Or Mike. Jury's still out.
Should I be jealous?
Only if you had your eye on Sean.
You okay? You sound down.
Mmm. Maybe a little.
I know just the cure.
What's that?
Me. But you turned me down. She thinks for a moment. Then:
Haven't you heard? No is the new yes.
Well. Bye.
You... Take care. Sean. Mark turns, heads down the stairs as Jack rushes up, calling:
Is Ali here?
Just left. Mark continues down. Jack whips around, looks at him, then up at Sean, who nods.
Where'd she go?
With Marcus.
What?
I told you, opportunity doesn't knock forever. Jack burns, frustrated, then heads slowly down the stairs. Sean shakes his head and turns to go back inside. Then pauses, noticing: Mark, looking up at Sean's apartment, hesitating. Then he opens his car to get in. Sean stands there, realizing he's doing the same thing. He steps onto the stairwell. Calls out:
Hey! You!
Mark. You wanna have breakfast? Off Mark's smile:
My mother always said there's only one thing to do when you're feeling blue... He opens the fridge and pulls out a bottle of CHAMPAGNE.
She was a poet.
And a drunk. Ali smiles. Marcus pops the cork, fills two glasses, hands her one. Clinks.
To your new place.
What new place?
All yours.  Unpack. Move in.
Marcus, I can't just--
Sure you can. Marcus plops her suitcase on the bed.
Unpack. You're home.
It's not even on the bus route.
Okay, that is the first and last time the term "bus route" will be spoken in this house.  Four cars. Which do you want?
Better?
You're gonna be on one of those someday.
Yeah, right.
Sooner than you think, too. Harold Saint called me today. You made quite an impression on him.
Really? What'd he say?
He wants to make a demo with you.
Are you serious? When??
He found a little studio time on Tuesday.
This Tuesday?
Too soon?
No! Oh my god, no, that's amazing. You're amazing.
I like making you happy. Your whole face lights up. Their eyes meet. He pushes some hair out of her face.
I think you're way too nice to me.
And that's a problem because...
I've had a lot to drink. And my judgment is off. He touches her face, their chemistry palpable.
Hey, I'm a gentleman. Which means I'd never kiss a lady when she's... vulnerable.
Liar. She leans in and impulsively pulls him into a kiss.
Where am I? She sees a Warhol-esque PRINT OF MARCUS on the wall. She raises her brows then sees her disheveled reflection in a huge mirror: smeared mascara, hair askew.
Who am I? She sees her and Marcus's clothes in a trail on the floor and bites her lip, remembering last night.
Morning.
What is this?
Now it's a model. But when it grows up, it'll be a mixed-use space: retail and residential.
This is the address of the Burlesque Lounge. Marcus shrugs, dries his hair.
Best view on the Sunset Strip, with no windows. When I'm done with it, it'll have a thousand.
You can't tear down the club.
Actually, I can.
But what about the history? That place is a landmark.
Not according to the city.
Does Tess know about this?
What Tess knows and doesn't know isn't a big concern of mine.
What makes you think she would ever sell the Lounge?
She has no choice. She's going under.
But that club is her life!
Oh, come on, you get this. It's business. It's not personal.
Not personal? It's pretty god damn personal for Tess! And Coco and Sean and Alexis. And what about Jesse? And Dave the lighting guy?
And what about me? It's pretty God damn personal to me. She turns to leave.
Where are you going?
To the club. Where I work. She marches out of the room, resolute--
Ali-- wait!!! At the door she turns back and looks at him. As he starts to speak, she SLAMS the door shut as we HEAR "THAT'S LIFE".
How'd it go?  Oh, shit.
What are you gonna do?
Right now? Get really drunk. THE FRONT DOORS OPEN, and Ali ENTERS, spots Tess, rushes over to her.
Tess! I have to talk to you! Tess keeps walking.
Marcus Gerber is trying to buy the lounge, and he's gonna tear it down and build a twenty-story skyscraper! Tess stops. Slowly turns and stares at Ali, who's suddenly embarrassed to admit...
I just saw the plans. Tess looks at Ali. Stunned. Ali stands there, breathless, waiting for her reaction. But Tess just turns, continues up to her office, and shuts the door. Ali turns to Sean-- then starts after her--
She has to do something! She can't just let him --
So that's it? It's over?
The circle of life, baby. All good things must come to an end.
But she can't just give up!
She's not giving up. She's going down with her ship. With dignity. Ali sits on a barstool, in disbelief.
I've got something for you. He pulls out the photo of Ali with her mother. It's in a new frame.
Where'd you get this?
Jack. He dropped it off on his way to the airport.
Where's he going?
New York on the red-eye.
To be with Natalie?
Pedal faster, baby, he and Natalie are over. You're the one he's been looking high and low for.
 Get your ass over to LAX and ask him yourself! Ali nods, jumps up from her stool, and races for the door, then stops, realizing:
I don't have a -- Sean tosses her his CAR KEYS.
American to JFK. Go! Ali catches the keys and TAKES OFF. - EXT. PARKING LOT - NIGHT - Ali  peels out of the lot, weaving through traffic as she lifts her cell. - INT. AIRPORT - NIGHT - CLOSE SHOT: a CELL PHONE in a plastic bowl moves through a security X-ray machine.
This is Jack. Leave me a message. FIND Jack on the other side, as his belongings come down the conveyor belt. He grabs them, turns off his cell. - EXT. STREET - NIGHT - ALI skids through a light, veers past cars. - INT. CONCOURSE - NIGHT Jack reaches gate 43, sees a long line. Gets in back. - INT. AIRPORT TERMINAL - NIGHT - Ali bolts through the front door, frantically checks the DEPARTURES MONITOR. Finds: NEW YORK JFK, GATE 43: NOW BOARDING. - INT. TERMINAL - NIGHT - Ali races up the escalator, approaching SECURITY.
Boarding pass?
I have to talk to someone, he's --
No one's allowed past this point without a boarding pass.
But I have to speak to him!
I'm sorry, miss.
There's Gate 43, right over there.
What are you doing here?
Sean told me you're going to New York. Please don't go!
I have to. I got an offer from that band -- the Punk Fusion group. They want me to tour with them.
Really?
They finally had it with the flaky keyboardist. I'll be back in five weeks. Will you be here?
Yes! Yes. Absolutely.
What about Marcus?
.Marcus who? They share a smile, separated by the ropes.
I'm trying to figure out if I should kiss you now, or make you wait five weeks.
Five weeks?! That's forever!
I gotta go, that's me. He picks up his bags. It's killing Ali.
I'll call you when I get there. Take care of Miles Davis.  Our cat. I named him. They smile again. Neither wanting this moment to end. She waves. He nods. Then he turns and walks off to board. Ali watches him go. ON JACK, walking back to the gate-then -- he stops. Turns back to see Ali, but she's gone.
But then I'll miss my flight!
She turns. Jack is there. In one fantastically romantic move, he pulls her into his arms, kisses her deeply -- an epic kiss that makes passersby stop and stare.
Well, go get 'em, Jack. He smiles, then disappears into the crowd. Ali stands there, watching him, gobsmacked by the kiss.
Smoother than honey and twice as sweet. Each girl lovelier then the next. Gentlemen, hold onto your hats. Ladies, hold on to your gentlemen. We may not have windows.. .but we DO have...  .the best view on the Sunset Strip. The audience hoots as the Burlesque Girls ENTER the stage dancing. ON ALI-- a lightbulb going on! As Tess exits the stage, Ali pushes through the crowd and races backstage.
Tess!
You could knock-- this is still my office--at least for another 48
But this is really, really -- Tess holds up a hand.
Not. Now.
I said -- NOT --
Yes now! God damn, you are one stubborn mule of a woman. Anyone else in their right mind would have figured out by now, when I have something to tell you, you listen! I told you I could dance, did you listen? No. Big mistake. I told you I could sing, did you listen? No. Big. mistake. This time you are going to hear what I have to say if I have to tie you up with your corset strings and scream it in your God damn ear. For the first time someone silences Tess. Ali takes a breath.
Have you ever heard of air rights?
Back with more noise complaints?
You offered to buy my club a few years back. I said no.
And now you've changed your mind.
Not exactly. Tess smiles at him. Looks at Ali, who's not smiling. She elbows her. Ali starts smiling. Tess walks up to the desk and sits herself down. Ali does the same.
I'm confused.
Go with me, there's a good ending, I promise. How much will these condos you're building sell for?
They start at one million and go up, depending on the view.
What if I told you a twenty-story high-rise was going up where my club is?
Ten stories would. Twenty would decimate them. Leaving behind a lot of angry homeowners staring across the street at fluorescent light bulbs and dirty windows.
So. Mr. ?
Anderson.
Mr. Anderson. Your pretty million- dollar ocean views are going away because I'm selling my building to a developer tomorrow who'll have his twenty stories all framed up by the time you start selling --
Trying to sell--
Trying to sell these condos.
I'm listening.
As am I. As long as you're telling me you'll have a check to me by 5:00 today.
Sorry, baby, they cut you off at the bar. Said you have to pay cash.
What? I co-own this goddamn place--
Not anymore you don't. I'm buying you out.
You can't do that.
Actually, according to page 4 of our contract, I can.
Why postpone joy? She hands him a CASHIER'S CHECK. Vince stares at it.
What the hell is this?
I realize it's been a while since you've seen one, but it's called a check. He stares at it, stunned.Then at her.
Where'd you get this?
Not your business anymore. And neither is the lounge.
How'd that feel?
Not half bad.
It felt pretty God damn awesome! And they crack up again. Then...
And to think, you didn't even want me around.
Oh, Jesus, here it comes.
.What was it you said to me that first night? "Twenty bucks at the door will make all your dreams come true." That was sweet of you.
Are you finished?
 Kinda ironic, when you think about it. I started off begging you to make my dreams come true, and here we are --
All right already! You want me to say it, I'll say it. She looks at her.
This place is the love of my life. The only dream I've ever had. I don't know what I would have done if I had lost it.
Again.
Again, and I wanna come home--
Yes, again! Did you fill my spot or what...?
What do you think? Tess and Nikki share a look.
Curtain's up in 20. Shake a leg. Nikki smiles, hikes her dance bag over her shoulder and heads
Ali looks at Tess quizzically--
Just like that?
If I had a dollar for every time she's quit...
Really?
We all fight. Bitch. Love and hate. And then make up. Just like sisters.
I never had a sister.
Me neither. THANK GOD.
Now get your cute little ass and big ole' voice up on stage, cause this is Burlesque, baby girl, where the women are always on top, and the men like it that way. Like I've always said --
You can't keep a good girl down.
A LOW CAMERA moving across a black stage as we MOVE IN ON the footlights which become a MILLION BRILLIANT LIGHTS blasting into camera, blinding us until they form letters reading:
