A simple GAME SHOW SET -- one long desk-that houses four "CELEBRITY PANELISTS," a small pulpit with attached microphone for the host, BUD COLLYER, who walks through the curtain to the delight of the audience. Bud bows and waves to the celebrities -- ORSON BEAN, KITTY CARLISLE, TOM POSTON, and PEGGY CASS.
Hello, panel, and welcome everyone to another exciting day on "To Tell The Truth." Let's get the show started.
My name is Frank Abagnale Jr. THE PILOT IN THE MIDDLE steps forward.
My name is Frank Abagnale Jr. THE THIRD PILOT does the same.
My name is Frank Abagnale Jr. Bud smiles, grabs a piece of paper.
Panel, listen to this one.  My name is Frank Abagnale Jr, and some people consider me the worlds greatest imposter.
BUD COLLYER
Okay, panel, you have ork cut out for you. Kitty Carl , you have the first question.
Imposter number one, how many years were you in prison?
I served two years in France, and five years in Atlanta, Georgia.
Imposter number two, I find all this very fascinating. Who was it that finally caught you?
Joe Shaye, FBI.
I have orders see a prisoner named Abagnale, t e his statement and solicit a c n ^ n so I can prepare for tomorrow' tladition. Joe takes a roll of CASH out of h` ocket, casually slips the money to the Warden.
If I give you another twenty, will you turn up the heat in here?
Don't pass him anything through the
Garren walks off, and Joe immediately starts to smile, looking around for a long BEAT as he stares at the cell door.
Yoohoo. Hello? Is the lady of the house at home? Joe tries to control his excitement as he kneels down and looks through the metal slide hole.
Jesus, Frank, you look terrible. I heard about French prisons, but this is positively barbaric. WE HEAR a sound come fr)dthe cell, and then heavy coughing. JO,E YE That doesn' t o d(rr4ood. I have a little cold my Help me.
Help you? Yes, I'll help you, Frank.
I'm sick... please...
Don't worry, Frank, you just have to make it through one more night. And then tomorrow I'll help you onto a plane, clean you up, and put you in a cell for the next twenty-five years.
Help me, please. I can't breathe...
Can't... breathe...
Don't start this shit, Frank.
Can't ...Can't Joe looks through the slot i e11 door, but can only see faint images of Frank rol the floor holding his
JOE SHAYE Frank, what's happening? Damn it, just calm down! Somebody help me!!
He's not breathing. I think he stopped breathing! Debbie Zane -
What's happening to him? Garren and the Guard quickly move toward a sink, where they start to wash their hands. JOE SHAYE What are you doing?
He can't breath. You have to call a doctor.
Okay, Joe...let's go home.
The New Rochelle Rotary Club has a history that goes back to 1859. In all those years, we have only inducted a handful of deserving men as lifetime members, an honor that has seen 187 names enshrined on the wall of honor. Tonight, we make it 188. So please stand, as I present my good friend, Frank William Abagnale. Applause all around as FRANK ABAGNALE SR. steps up to the MICROPHONE. He is handsome and impeccable groomed -- wearing a black suit and holding onto his plaque with two hands.
Two little mice fell in a bucket of cream. The first mouse quickly gave up and drowned, but the second mouse wouldn't quit. He struggled so hard,
You're a better dancer than your father, Frankie. The girls don't know what they're in for.
Paula, show him the dance you were doing when we met.
Who can remember?
The people in that little French Village were so happy to see Americans, that they decided to put on a show for us.
I know the story, Dad.
So they cram two hundred soldiers into this tiny social hall, and the first person to walk on stage is your mother. And she starts to dance... Paula steps away from Frank, and she starts to dance a ballet, smiling as she tries to remember the steps. FRANK SR. It had been months since we had even seen a woman, and here's this blonde angel on stage -- and the men are literally holding their breath. And I turned to my buddies, and I said..
 I will not lea France without her. Paula spins around, accide1 49, ILLS HER GLASS OF WINE --
Oh, shit, the rug! I b relieve I did that. Frankie, run /get a towel... As Frank runs off, Paula drops to her knees and scrubs the stain with the hem of her dress.
This will never come out. She looks up at her husband.
Whenever I dance for you, I get in trouble.
Wake up, Frank... it's eight-thirty. Frank opens his eyes, stares at his father.
I overslept. Mom's gonna kill me.
It's okay. You don't have to go to school today.
Is it snowing?
Do you own a black suit?
A black suit? Why?
We have a vermportant meeting in the city.
ply( l
Ma'am, open the door. Just open up, please, it's important. THE DOOR OPENS A CRACK AND DARCY, 40's, low cut blouse, a bagel in her hand, stares at Frank Sr.
we don't open for half an hour.
What's your name, ma'am?
Darcy.
Darcy, that's a pretty name. I'm in a bit of fix -- I need a suit for my kid. This is my son, Frank, he needs
I'm sorry. We don't loan suits, and we're not open. As she closes the door, Frank Sr. takes a small GOLD NECKLACE OUT OF HIS POCKET, holds it up to the glass.
Is this yours, Darcy? I just found it in the parking lot? Darcy stares at the necklace through the door.
Slide over. You're gonna take me to Chase Manhattan Bank. Just head up to seventy-second and Madison, pull up to the front and park next to the fire hydrant. Frank looks back at his father.
Dad...I don't know how to drive.
A little more gas -- now slip it into second. That's good, more clutch, now pull into this lane here -- slowly!
 Don't honk at us you son of a bitch -- I'm teaching my kid to drive! You're doing fine, Frank, just pick a lane and slip it into third -- about one- o'clock -- push it hard.
Frank slips it into third. FRANK SR_ Perfect! Now you got it! Look at you, Frank, t is your town -- you're goin s aight up Broadway!
Okay. Stop grinning. When I get inside you go back to the front seat and wait. Even if a cop comes and writes you a ticket, you don't move the car, understood?
Dad... is this really gonna help?
You know why the Yankees always win, Frank?
They have Mickey Mantle?
No. It's because the other teams can't stop staring at those damn pinstripes. Frank Sr. steps out from the Cadillac, grabs his briefcase. FRANK SR. Watch this, Frank. The manager of Chase Manhattan bank is about to open the door for your father. As Frank Sr. casually walks toward the doors of Chase Manhattan, the MANAGER rushes through the bank to open the doors for him.
You've owned stationery store for how man rs?
Mr. Abagnale, we don' `)1y loan money to people who hav resolved business with the I.R.S..
That's just a misunderstanding. I hired the wrong guy to do my books, a mistake anyone could make. I wouldn't even consider that if I were you.
You want me to ignore the fact that the government is demanding two years back taxes?
My store is a landmark in New Rochelle. I have customers all over New Jersey.
Sir, you're not a customer of Chase Manhattan. We don't know you. I'm sure you're bank in New Rochelle...
My bank went out of business. Banks like this put them out of business. Frank Sr. leans in, lowers his voice. FRANK SR. Now I know I made a mistake, I admit that. But these people want blood -- they want my store -- they've threatened to put me in jail. This is America, right, I'm not a criminal. I'm a medal of honor winner, a lifetime member of the New Rochelle Rotary Club. All I'm asking you to do is help me beat these guys.
This is not estion of winning and losing. It, question of risk. I'm very sort
You're the largest ion the world. Where's the fucking
The Impala is parked right over there. Frank and his father glance toward an OLD, DENTED CHEVY IMPALA at the back of the lot.
it was great doing business with you. THE SALESMAN gets in the CADILLAC and drives it toward the front of the car lot. Frank Sr. looks down at the CHECK in his hand.
Come on, Frank. Let's go return the suit. Debbie 7 ana - S
ank laughs with him.
I'm making pancakes.
We're not gonna eat pancakes for dinner on my son's sixteenth birthday. Frank turns to his father. FRANK SR. Why are you looking at me like that? You thought I forgot? Frank opens his BRIEFCASE, takes out a CHECKBOOK FROM CHASE MANHATTAN BANK. He walks over and hands it to Frank.
But they turned down your loan?
Yeah. They all turned me down.
So why open a bank account with them?
Because one day you'll want something from these people -- a house, a car -- they have all the money. There's a hundred check ere, Frank, which means from i day on -- you're in
THE IMPALA pulls up to the f the local public High School. Frank wears his BLUE WHITE PANTS as he gets out of the car and smiles r mother. Paula wears an OLD FUR COAT over her pajamas.
See that, it's just a school. No different than Buckley. Frank reaches through the window of the car, takes the CIGARETTE out of his mother's mouth.
You promised you were going to quit.
Frankie, you don't have to wear the uniform here. Why don't you take the jacket off?
I'm used to it. Debbie Zane - 5
Is this Ms. Glasser's sixth period French? Some of the students laugh, most just turn back to their friends as Frank nervously adjusts his tie. A GIRL in the front row stares at Frank.
Are you the sub? Frank looks around for ` teacher, then slowly starts to
Frank walks toward the blac writes his name on the board -- MR. ABAGNALE. HE S ACK OF AN ERASER against the board to get the students a n.
Chapter seven.
Open your books to chapter eight, read quietly to yourselves. The classroom door swings open, and a frail, confused TEACHER walks in and motions to Frank.
Are you subbing for Roberta?
Yes.
They sent for me -- they said they needed a sub. I rushed over here from Dixon.
I always sub for Roberta.
I'll never come to Monroe again. You tell them not to call me! The WOMAN storms out, and Frank turns back to the students.
I suggest you start reading people.
Mr. and Mrs. Abagnale, 1 is not a question of your son's attendance.
For the past week Frank has been teaching Ms. Glasser's French class.
He what?
Your son has been pretending to be a substitute teacher, lecturing the students, giving out homework.
Ms. Glasser has been ill, and there was some confusion with the real sub -- we're still not sure what happened.
Your son held a teacher-parent conference yesterday. He was planning a class field trip to a French bread factory in Trenton. Do you see the problem we have? Frank Sr. and Paula seem a bit confused.
This is our fault, Principal Evans. Frank had been at Buckley since he was a little boy. We had to take him out for personal reasons, away from his friends -- you know how kids are. He's all alone here.
He's not alone. He has us.
It's a fake.
Excuse me?
There's no crease in the paper.
I don't understand.
When your mom hands you a note to miss school, you put it in your pocket. And if it was in his pocket, where's the crease?
Excuse me. I have to go to work.
Sir, we have no choice but to suspend Frank for one week, and transfer him out of French and into German.
You're not suspending anyone. if you go after my son I'll go before the school board and ask them who's minding the ste at Monroe High. I'll ask my4bbd friend Tom Walsh how it's po s' or a little kid to teach a Fr n ajZa, t ss for an entire week without tP incipal of the school knowing a i%- I might even mention the f t my son doesn't speak Frenc Frank closes his locker, sees FOUR CHEERLEADERS standing in front of him. The leader of the group, JOANNA, steps forward.
Are you that transfer from Buckley? Frank looks a bit confused as he stares at the girls.
Yes.
My name is Joanna Carlson, and I was wondering if you were going to the Junior Prom?
No. I don't have a date yet. My name is Frank Abagnale.
Frank, do you think you could buy my' friends and I some beer before the dance? All the other guys are afraid to try.
I'm only sixteen. How could I buy you beer?
If you're old enough to teach French, you're old enough to buy beer.
Mom, I'm home. Nobody answers, and Fk'"slowly walks toward the back bedroom door, which is closed. Frank's about to knock when tht b om door suddenly opens, and Paula walks out with JACK W - the Rotary Club President -- who wears a tailored ck suit. Paula wears a dress and holds a tray of food.
That's all there is, two bedrooms, but we're getting used to it. Frankie, you remember Dad's friend Jack Wright from the club, he came by looking for your father -- I was giving him a tour of the apartment.
Very spacious, Paula.
Dad's at work. Frank stares at Jack, who walks over and picks up his HAT off the chair.
You look more like your old man every day. Thanks for the sandwich, Paula. I'll see ya later.
Wait. Frank walks to the couch, picks up a small ROTARY PIN that is lying on the cushions. He holds it up to Jack.
Thank you, Frank. That's the President's pin. I'd be in big trouble if I lost that. Jack clips the pin to his jacket, turns and walks out the door.
Are you hungry, Frankie? I'll make you a sandwich. Paula walks into the )Efien, opens the refrigerator and starts making a sandw PAWcont ' d) Jack wanted to t ob ness with your father. He sa' we should sue the government, a 's not legal what they're do us. Why aren't you saying anyth Frank stares at his mother, who continues to make his sandwich.
You're not going to tell him, are you? Paula walks over to her son, her hands shaking as she hands him a sandwich.
No.
That'sright. There's nothing to tell.I'mgoing outfor a few hours, visitsomeold friends from the tennis club.Andwhen I get home we'll all
Do you need some money, Frankie, a few dollars to buy some record albums? Here, take five dollars. Paula holds out five dollars, and Frank walks toward her, reaches up and takes the cigarette out of her mouth.
You promised you were going to quit.
This is a 925 sterlihk er Waldmann ballpoint pen V a two- color twist action top. Just turn it
They have them in the city for six. As the woman walks out of the store, Frank Sr. comes running out of his office, which doubles as the stockroom. He holds a letter in his hand.
It's over. I did it, Frank. The sons of bitches have called off the dogs -- read it and weep. I beat the United States government. Take a look at that. Frank Sr. hands Frank a letter.
Does this mean we can move home?
We're gonna move back here, Frank, get a new house, a new car --
A red Cadillac with white interior.
It's gonna take a little time, but we're gonna get it all back --every fur coat, eve goddamn piece of silver! Com o help me lock up. We're going tg4 brace! Frank follows his father int ILLAGE INN BAR, a neighborhood dive that is ful 'lway workers coming off the night shift. Frank and his are greeted with cold stares from a handful of REGULARS are drinking and watching a mounted black and white TV.
The Warren Commission has concluded their investigation into the assassination of President Kennedy, and has found that Lee Harvey Oswald acted alone, with no evidence of conspiracy, domestic or foreign.
 Bring us a couple of beers and two shots of Canadian.
I need to see the kid's I.D..
This kid is the head salesman in my company. He's twenty-two and he's making five bills a week, so just bring the drinks and mind your business. Frank and his father sit at a small table in the middle of the bar. Frank looks uncomfortable as his father lights a cigar.
Maybe I should wait in the car.
Are you afraid of these men? Look at the way, they sit, the way they dress, the way they drink. What are they, railway men? Cargo loaders? Those men haven't earned the right to judge us. I beat Uncle Sam, what have they ever done? The WAITRESS brings o the drinks, and Frank Sr. quickly downs both shots. He ak DIME out of his pocket and sets it on the table. FRANSR. %cont d) Frank, I wa nt you that dime and go put it in th u x. Pick something loud. We're ating. Frank glances to the bar, where the MEN are quietly watching the-TV. The JUKEBOX is directly under the television. FRANK SR. You know who I like? Lesley Gore.
Dad... they're watching TV.
Yes. But in a moment they'll be listening to Lesley Gore. We're gonna teach the drunks to mind their manners.
I think they know I'm not eighteen.
People only know what you tell them.
Don't play that thing, kid. Frank nervously stands alt " ukebox. Some of the men have gotten off their stools drinks in hand.
We asked you not to' , kid. The President is abou Gd ke a speech. Frank looks toward his father, who sits back in his chair, smoking and smiling. Frank's hand shakes as he reaches out, drops the dime into the jukebox.
We're not gonna tell you again. Step away from the jukebox.
Why you bothering the kid? You got a problem, come bother me. Frank watches as TWO DRUNKS walk toward his father. They both hold PITCHERS OF BEER in their hands. FRANK SR. Hit the button, Frank. You hit that goddamn button!
Would the boy step forward and state his name for the record. Frank is seated in the middle of the courtroom -- a backpack on the floor at his feet. Frank slowly walks toward the bench.
Frank William Abagnale Jr.
Frank, the court apologizes for pulling you out of school this morning. Are you aware of the fact that your parents have filed for divorce? Frank glances at his mother, then slowly shakes his head "no."
One ticket to Grand Central, please.
Three dollars and fifty cents.
Can I write you a check?
Frank, this is Agent Amdursky and Agent Fox. They'll be helping with the extradition. Joe puts the handcuffs on Frank, who can barely stay on his feet as he slowly turns to Warden Garren.
Your wife is sleeping with one of the guards. Just thought you should know.
Just sit back and get table. We leave for the airpor nine hours.
I want to call my father.
You can call him when we get to New York? I apologize for the room -- it's the only place the agency could afford.
Don't worry, Joe. I've stayed in worse.
I don't want to hear your story. That's two checks that bounced, do you know how much trouble I'm in?
The bank made a mistake, Andy, I'll write you a check right now! Please, it's midnight, I have no place to go. The Manager pushes Frank into the cage elevator.
You're a goddamn kid. You should be in school.
My boss sent me to Brooklyn, then Queens, now he wants me in Long Island and I'm short train fare. It's my first week -- I don't think I'm cut out to be a salesman.
I'm sorry, but we're not allowed to cash checks from other banks. How would we know if they were any good?
What's your name?
Ashley.
You do me this favor, Ashley, and I'll give you this sterling silver Waldmann pen. It's German. What do you say? Frank takes the PEN out of his pocket.
I feel so bad. I'm really not supposed to take the check. How about if I just loan you a few dollars myself? Ashley takes some money out of her own pocket.
That's okay, Ashley. I'll find my way to Chase Manhattan.
Frank follows the Pilot into the 'air, seesthe hotel MANAGER rushing over to greet him. The entirelobby seems to be focussed on the Pilot, with BELLMEN runningover to carry 0; his bags -- the FLIGHT ATTENDANTS following his every move. Frank turns to an aging BELLMAN.
Excuse me, do you know that pilot?
He's just one of those airline jerks. Just because you fly at thirty thousand feet, doesn't make you God. Frank watches as the Pilot walks into the elevator, the Flight Attendants by his side.
Dear Dad...I've decided to become an airline pilot. I've applied at all
I'd like to speak to someone about a uniform.
Purchasing.
How can we help you?
I sent my uniform out to be cleaned through the hotel...
Let me guess. They lost the uniform. Happens all the time.
Go down to the Well-Built Uniform Company at Ninth and Broadway -- they're our uniform supplier. I'll tell Mister Ross you're coming. Frank sprints through the doors of the WELL-BUILT UNIFORM
What's your rank?
I'm a co-pilot.
look too yo ng e a pilot. Ross places a single GOLD BAR'bp `# lapel of Frank's jacket.
How does that feel?
It feels great.
It's gonna be $164 dollars.
No problem. I'll write you a check.
That's eighty, ninety, one hundred dollars. You have yourself a great time in Paris.
I'm flying out to Paris in the C. morning. Okay if I write you a check for the room?
I won't need that much. Let's make it two-fifty.
Frank Abagnale? Frank turns around, stares at the TWO COPS as they show him their BADGES.
What is this? The IRS said no charges would filed.
Sir, we'd like to talk to you about a checking account at Chase Manhattan bank. The account is four thousand dollars overdrawn, and checks are bouncing every day.
The account is in your son's name, and he was re ted as a runaway in
Do you know where you Abagnale?
You guys are looking for the wrong person.
And how do you know that? Has Frank been in contact with you?
if I tell you where he is, will you promise not to tell his mother? The two Detectives nod. FRANK SR.  Frank made up a fake I.D and enlisted in the Marine Corps -- he's over in
I'm sorry, Sir. We didn't know.
It's okay. Nobody knows.
Do you rent twriters?
meticulously placing the LOGO on top of the check he has just made. The words stick to the paper, and he quickly takes the check and places it in the middle of a hotel BIBLE. He sticks the bible under his bed, the way a kid breaks in a new baseball glove.
I was wondering if ?bk `ptad cash this payroll check f Frank takesthecheck out ofa phony PAN AM ENVELOPEand
hands it totheTELLER.ThePAN AM LOGO on the check is crooked andoffcenter,thetype blurred and almostillegible.
You have beautiful eyes. The TELLER smiles at Frank, barely glances at the check as she opens her CASH DRAWER.
How would you like it?
I give them away at Christmas to needy children.
What can I do ou, Mr. Williams.
I'm headed out to S morning and I need a little s money.
The airport? They cash checks at the airport?
Morning. The TWO PILOTS turn and look at Frank.
Morning. You mind if I ask you a question?
Sure.
I see you hfe"d11 the time, and I was wonderi g Pan Am is doing out here at L ah_ubia? Pan Am doesn't fly into La Gu Frank stares at the Pilot, hag==(,d/,idea what to say.
You working charters?
Yeah. Charters. I'm headed out to Kennedy in a few minutes.
I figured as much. What kind of equipment you on? Frank thinks for a long BEAT, has no idea what to say.
General Electric.
Dear Dad. I have been accepted to Pan Am's flight school, and will be starting my training immediately. I am sending you a picture of me in my uniform, so that you can show it to mom, and let her know that I am a pilot for the greatest airline in the world.
I'm Frank Black'cr#4m Monroe High School. I have a opdIntment with Mister Mulligan.
Go on in, Frank. He' s w i4 ng for you. Frank hesitates as he walks toward a door marked, PAUL
Frank, I'm Paul Mulligan, head of security for Pan American World Airways. I understand you're writing a report about Pan Am, and you'd like to speak to a real live pilot.
Yes, Sir.
Well you're in luck, son. Because I was one of the best.
What does it mean when one pilot says to another pilot, "what kind of equipment are you on?"
He's asking what kind of plane they're flying. DC-10, 707, 727. What about a D. badges I've seen pilots wear. e
A pilot is requi of things with him at airline personnel b e similar to this Pan AA wearing, and his FAA li Mulligan pulls an old FAA LICENSE out of his wallet.
Do you think I could make a copy of this license to put in my report?
You can have it, Frank. It expired five years ago.
What about your I.D. badge? Do you have an extra one I could borrow?
I'm afraid I can't help you there. These badges are special ordered from Polaroid. The only way to get
one is to become a real live pilot for Pan Am.
Caribbean Air will be expanding our routes next year to include most of the East coast. I'm thinking we'll need several thousand badges.
As you can see, we make the I.D. badges for almost every major airline.
That's Pan Am. Would o' Qke the brochure on that one?
My boss wanted me to bring back an actual I.D. badge, not a brochure.
That's no problem, Mister Anderson. We make all the badges right here with this equipment. The Salesman motions to a large CAMERA AND LAMINATOR. POLAROID SALESMAN I can make you one in a few seconds.
I have an idea. Why don't you use me as the subject. Debbie Zane - 5
Hello. I'm a Pan Am co-pilot and I'd like to fly on your two-thirty to Miami.
Yes. Dead-head. Frank hands the AGENT his I.D. BADGE and Mulligan's FAA license, which has been cropped at the top where Mulligan's name used to be. She barely glances at either-
Are you my dead-head?
Frank, this is Captain Oliver. That's John Paxton, the Co-Pilot, this is Ron Vega, flight engineer.
Frank Williams, Pan Am. Thanks for giving me a lift.
Go ahead and take a seat, Frank, we're about to push. Frank continues to search for the JUMP SEAT, the panic starting to show on his face as Marci reaches her hand around to the back of the cockpit door and pulls down the small
There you go. Would you like a drink after take-off? Frank quickly sits in the jump-seat, his hands shaking as he tries to strap himself in.
A glass of milk, please.
Hello, dead-head. Enjoying your free ride?
Marci, did you drop this? Frank takes a SMALL GOLD NECKLACE out of his jacket pocket.
Must have slipped right off your neck.
Are all hostesses as nice as you?
Stewardess. You know we like to be called stewardess now. Why are you stopping?
I want to tell you something, Marci. This is by far the best date I've ever been on.
Is the jump-seat op no '1 j. ur four o'clock to Dallas?
Welcome to Dallas National Bank, how may I help you?
What's your name, Ma'am?
Lucy Rogers. I'm the Assistant Manager.
Lucy, my name is Frank Williams, and I'm a co-pilot for Pan Am. I'd like
to cash this check and then take you to dinner.
Okay, enough! I'm gonna be sick. I have to get home and get some sleep.
It's only midnight.
One of my tellers got married last night, and I'm gonna be short handed all week.
What if I cane nd helped you out down at the
To be close to you.
We feed the checks through the micker machine, and the magic eye reads the micker ink and then sorts the checks by numbers.
What numbers?
See the numbers on the bottom of the` checks. Those are called routing numbers.
Where do the checks get routed to?
Well, I'm not exactly sure. Nobody ever asked before.
would you keep it down, please? The students immediatel uiet down as Frank turns a page in his book -- THE HISTO BANKING IN AMERICA. He is reading a chapter called - - T E, NKS OF THE U.S. FEDERAL RESERVE
WE SEE rows of desks, chairs, cou and cash drawers -- everything you could possibly find at a bank. The AUCTIONEER stands in front of a room filled with BANKERS and BUSINESSMEN in dark suits.
Our next item up for bid is also fromtheJersey National foreclosure. Thisisa micker encoder, a machine usedtoencode bank checks. Do I haveanopening bid? In the audience, Frank, dressed in a suit, smiles as he raises his paddle.
Five dollars. Debbie Zane - 5
Happy birthday, Dad. Frank turns to face his son, who is standing in front of a RED CADILLAC that still has the sticker in the window. The two men stare at each other for a long BEAT, and then embrace in the middle of the lot.
Jesus, look at you? My son the birdman. That is some uniform, Frank.
I bought you a Cadillac. Frank motions to the car, holds up the keys. K ission. She goes s an hour. It btj speedometer. Frank Sr.
She's beautiful. Only\ @nna get myself another white on r already ordered it. You keep that one, Frank,
I went by the store today. Since when do you close on a Friday?
I had to close the store for awhile. It's all about timing, Frank, the goddamn government knows that. They hit you when you're down, and I wasn't gonna let them take it from me. So I just shut the doors myself, called their bluff.
I can get you money, whatever you need. We can buy ten stores.
No. It's better this way. I'm laying' low for awhile, letting them have their fun. It's just a stationery store -- sooner or later they'll forget about me.
Have you talked to Mom?
She's so stubborn, your mother. But I won't let her go without a fight. I've been fighting for her since the day we met.
Out of all those soldiers, you were the one that took her home.
That's right. Two hundred men were sitting in th' little social hall watching he d ce. What was the name of tha d I/ ..il lage? Montpelier.
I didn't speak a word six weeks later she was A WOMAN PULLS UP IN AN OLD FORD AND HONKS FOR FRANK SR.. She smiles and waves at him through the window, and he waves back. FRANK SR. Shit. I have to go, Frank.
I was hoping I could buy you a steak.
Jesus, tonight is no good. That's my friend, Darlene. She's cooking me dinner for my birthday. She used to be the pastry chef at Elaines. Why don't you come home with us?
No, I should probably get out to the airport. I'm flying the red eye tonight.
Where are you going?
Dad, I'm serious about what I said. I can get you money --whatever you need.
Just tell me where you're going. I bet it's someplace warm.
Yeah. Hawaii.
Hawaii. My son is going to Hawaii tonight. The x t of us really are suckers.
A SLIDE PROJECTOR -- the circular tray turning clockwise as an AGENT JOE SHAYE stands at the front of the room addressing
John Doe 2172 is a paperhanger who started on the East Coast. During the last few weeks 2172 has developed a new form of check fraud, which I'm calling "the float". Next slide. The slide doesn't change. JOE SHAYE Next slide, please.
The remote thing is broken. You'll have to do it by hand. Joe reaches in and turns the slide. JOE SHAYE What he's doing is opening checking accounts all over the country, then changing the micker ink routing numbers on the bottom of those checks.
THE FACES OF THE FIVE FBI AGENTS, looking bored as they all listen to Joe, having no idea what he's talking about. Some of the agents are yawning, while other are doodling at their desks. JOE SHAYE This is a map of the 12 branches of the U.S. Federal Reserve. The optical scanners at t bank read the numbers on the bott a check -- then ship the ch c}f,? to the
Joe, for those of with bank fraud, wo telling us what the h talking about?
The East Coast branches are numbered seven through twelve, the midwest four, five, and six...
Yes. And if you change a number one to a number nine -- a check cashed in New York won't be sent to the East Coast Reserve -- but will be re- routed all the way to California. The bank won't know the check has bounced for two weeks, which means
Sean, I was hoping to get-some back- up on this.
.I'm wearing a red nd high heels, running through park and chasing these two Puerto Rican's with a suitcase filled with marijuana and I reach for my radio to call for back-up, but the radio is stuck in my bra... Joe turns up the volume on the radio, keeps his eyes on the road as he drives.
That's a funny story. People always laugh at that story.
Let me ask you something, Amdursky. if you had so much fun working undercover, why did you transfer into bank fraud?
I didn't transfer. I was demoted.  Demoted is the wrong word. It was more like-punished. I screwed up in the field.
What about you, Mr. Fox? Did you fuck up in the field and get punished?
No. I've never worked in the field before. I was in the L.A. public relations office, but we were shut down after the riots.
That's just great. I ask for backup, they drag the bottom of the Pacific.
Can I ask you mething, Joe? How come you're o erious all the time?
Does it bother you, Mr. Fox?
A little, I guess.
Would you guys like to hear me tell a joke?
Yeah. We'd love to hear a joke from you.
Knock Knock.
Who's there?
Go fuck yourselves.
He's been here two weeks, written lots of checks. The one that bounced was for twenty dollars, and he took care of it right away.
Nobody is goin to blame you. The bank called u He's probably not the man we' oking for.
I don't want m-Y u Comers harassed. He took care of ' o '
Do you have any of th 1 ( ys he's written you?
He gave me one yesterday. The owner takes a check out of the register, hands it to Joe. Joe stares at the check for a BEAT, slowly starts to smile.
I don't believe it. You guys stay here, watch the front.
Stay here? This guy's a check forger, a goddamn paperhanger. He doesn't even carry a gun.
Why can't we go with you, Joe?
Just be quiet and watch the front. And if you're good, I'll take you both for ice cream when we're finished.
at the end of the second floor hallway, the DO NOT DISTURB SIGN hanging off the door. Joe slowly makes his way down the hall, passing a MAID wh 's about to scream -- until he shows her his badge and vio y motions for her to hide inside a room. Joe creeps along the walYh s gun straight out, his face covered in sweat. He free Jow he hears a door creak, his breathing labored as the s of ROOM 212 slowly swings open and Frank walks into the ly u He wears a dark brown suit and holds a black suitcase
Freeze! FBI! Don't you move! Put your hands on your head or I'll shoot you! Frank slowly turns to face Joe. The two men stare at each other for a BEAT_
Relax, buddy, you're late. My name is Johnson, Secret Service. Our boy just tried to climb out the window -- my partner has him cuffed in the alley downstairs.
Secret Service? What are you talking about? Keep your hands in the air.
You think the FBI are the only ones tracking this guy. We've been following a paper trail for months, almost had him in New York. Would you mind taking that gun out of my face, it makes me nervous.
Let me see some identification.
Here. Take my whole wallet. Frank throws his wallet to Joe, who catches it with his free hand, but doesn't open it.
You want my gun, too? Come over here and take my gun! Frank opens his jacket, but not wide enough for Joe to see that he's not armed.
Are you gonna e that weapon? We're supposed a on the same team. Joe hesitates, then slowly louW6Xs`J`3,. gun and holsters it.
I'm sorry. I got a little carried away. I didn't expect Secret Service on this.
Counterfeiting is our thing.
I know. I know. I just wasn't expecting...
Don't worry about it.  This is his typewriter. I'm gonna go lock it in my trunk. Do me a favor and guard his room for a minute. Frank starts moving toward the back stairwell.
And yell down to my partner in the alley -- tell him I'm on my way. Frank starts to walk down back stairwell. He looks back at Joe, who stands at the front of room 212.
What's your name, anyway?
Joe Shaye.
Tough luck, Joe. Five minutes earlier and you would have landed yourself a pretty good collar. Frank starts walking down the stairs.
Wait. ,4back to Joe. Frank stops, slowly ty
Hang onto it for a pu`% , I trust you.
Thanks, Sean. It was my call all the way.
Not really. I made a mistake.
Yeah, but I'm gonna get this one. The worst thi a paperhanger can do is show is I saw him, I heard his voice -- r s nothing for him to hide beiin (n
what position is that?
Hey, Sean, you want to hear a joke?
Knock knock.
Do you have any ketchup, Richard?
It's in the little bowl, Mr. Williams.
Thanks. Here ya go. Keep the change. Frank takes a crumpled fifty dollar bill out of his pocket, hands it to the waiter.
Thank you very much, Mr. Williams. you want some`5'v
I would, but my sh' over. I'm going home to my ki thank you for asking, Mr. Willi d merry Christmas.
Merry Christmas.
is looking through a giant PRINT BOOK -- tediously searching for a match. Joe is alone in the fingerprint lab, where a pathetic looking Christmas tree sits in the corner of the room. The phone rings, and Joe quickly answers.
This is Shaye. Merry Christmas.
Hello, Joe.
Who is this?
Johnson, Secret Service. Joe sits up at his desk, grabs a pencil and paper.
John Doe 2172?
I've been trying to track you down for a couple of hours. Did you know that most people in the FBI have no idea who you are or what you do?
What do you want? happened out li'n>Zo ngeles .
Fuck you. Don't yo ize to me. I'm the one that's Rn t you in jail.
Joe, do you always work on Christmas Eve? Joe looks around the room before he answers.
I volunteered, so that men with families could go home early.
You were wearing a wedding ring in L.A.. I thought maybe you had a family?
No. I've never been married.
How come?
You want to talk to me, let's talk face to face.
Okay. I'm at the Waldorf Astoria in Manhattan. Suite 3113. Joe starts to write this down, then suddenly stops himself.
You think you're gonna get me again, don't you? You'd love for me to send twenty agents out on Christmas Eve to barge into that hotel, break down doors so you can make a fool out of me again?
Joe, I'm sorry if I made a fool out of you.
Goddamn it, o t you feel sorry for me. The tru h knew it was you. Maybe I didn 1 {he trigger, but I knew.
People only know wh r,y` iV tell them.
Then tell me something. How did you know I wouldn't look in the wallet?
The same reason the Yankees always win. Nobody can keep their eyes off the pinstripes.
The Yankees win because they have Mickey Mantle.
I have to go. I'm catching a flight in two hours. Merry Christmas, Joe.
You didn't call to apologize, did you John Doe?
What do you mean?
You've got no one else to call. Joe hangs up the phone. He cups his hands to his face, then stares at a picture of his WIFE AND DAUGHTER -- which sits on the desk in front of him.
Just take a deposit counter, then fill in ou wish to the amounty
I don't need to fill in my account number?
I'm calling it "The Switch." Next slide. The slide doesn't change. JOE SHAYE
The bank scanners read the micker ink before they read pen ink. So even though those deposit slips are filled out correctly, each person who made a deposit that day was actually putting money into his account.
Forty-six thousand, four hundred and' twelve dollars. It was the second largest bank robbery in the history of Las Vegas.
What's the fuel consumption of a 707 in flight?
Kid, I'm really not in the mood for this today. That damn Skywayman is driving me crazy. There was another article.
Who's The Sk an? Mulligan hands Frank _ f the NEW YORK TIMES.
Some nut flying posing as a Pan Am has devoted a weekl Frank stares down at the TIMES, h yes wide as he stares at the headline: SKYWAYMAN VISITS WASHINGTON: ELUSIVE PHONY
The Skywayman...
I keep telling them it's not my problem. He doesn't fly on Pan Am planes -- he flies on everybody else. The damn paper is in love with this clown -- they call him the James Bond of the sky.
Did you say James Bond? Debbie Zane - 5
And you're sure this is the suit?
Positive. That'.s the same.one he wore in the movie.
Okay. I'll take three.
Now all you a is one of those little Fore gny-ts cars he drives.
Joe, I got something! Joe rushes over to Agent Fox, who is holding up TWO SETS OF
I was looking through the wanted criminal file, and there it was! Look at that! Joe takes the file from Fox and opens it.
The Skywayman. Holy shit, a perfect match.
They describe The Skywayman as a thirty-year-old -- dark hair --six- feet -- same fucking guy!
It doesn't make any sense. A thirty- year-old has to register for the draft, which means his prints have to be here.
Maybe there's a reason he didn't register. He could have a wooden leg for all we know. Maybe he was born in Peru and he's not an American
Maybe he's not thirty. Somebody call New York, get a list of juvenile runaways from the NYPD. TEN FBI AGENTS have surrounded a 4 /STORY HOME IN LONG ISLAND. Joe Shaye, wearing a black hat and black overcoat, is knocking on the door with Amdursky and Fox. Paula answers with a cigarette in her hand.
Good morning, ma'am, we're the FBI Agents who called.
Yes. I've been waiting. I hope you're all hungry. I made biscuits-
My husband is a lawyer.
Of course, Ma'am. Do you have a current address for your ex-husband, Frank Abagnale?
No. He moves around a lot these days. How are those biscuits?
Very good.
Ma'am, you filed a police report last year for a juvenile runaway named Frank Ana1e, Jr.
He's forging checks? That's why you're here?
What he's doing is a federal offense.
A young boy has to eat, has to have a place to sleep. What do you want him to do? His father can't help him. Paula gets off the couch and grabs her purse.
I'm working part-time now at the Church. Just tell me how much he owes and I'll pay you back. Paula takes out her CHECKBOOK.
So far it's about two million dollars.
Yes, Sir, that's him. But I didn't know he was sixteen! I swear to God I didn't know! Joe gets out of the cy , -61oses the door on Lucy and smiles at Amdursky and Fox. We got him. Frank is wearing his James Bond s1'/as she pulls up to the airport in a German sports car. He parks the car and jumps out of the convertible, leaving the keys in the ignition.
Dear Dad. I'm no longer an airline pilot for Pan Am. I'm now an FBI Agent working undercover for the
This is a micker encodifi achine. It's what banks use to print numbers on checks. I collect them.
Very cool. Where's the party tonight?
I'm doing fondue at my place.
A bubbling FONDUE POT with skewers lining the rim. The apartment is packed with men and women who are drinking, smoking pot, and eating fondue.
Frank, this is great fondue.
Thanks. Did you see my new phonograph system? It's reel-to-reel, the best sound system you can buy. Frank motions to the phonograph system in the living room, with giant speakers against the walls.
Thirty-one. Come on, everyone, I'll show you my closet!
Okay, you guyeady? Frank throws open his"c doors, revealing FOUR ROWS of SUITS, all different st all arranged by color.
Some of those Manhattan le suits were three hundred dollars. And those shoes are Stacy-Adams slip-ons.
These bottles need to be labeled when you pick them up. Do you realize what would happen if they got mixed up -- do you understand how dangerous this is? Don't stand there crying, just nod your head and tell me you won't do it again! Brenda nods her head, quickly walks away from the Doctor and sits behind the RECEPTION DESK. She buries her head and starts to write a letter, her body still sobbing as Frank walks up to her.
Are you okay? Brenda looks up at Frank, her eyes and nose puffy from crying. She covers her mouth when she talks.
i He told me to ck up the blood, so I did. He nev told me to label it. Brenda.
Brenda, I wouldn't worr-out it. These Doctors don't know everything.
It's my first week. I think they'.re going to fire me.
No. Nobody will fire you. I'll bet you're good at your job.
No, I'm not.
I'll bet if I asked you to check the status of my friend, Lance Applebaum, you could do that in a second. He hurt his foot tonight. Brenda grabs a chart, starts to read it out loud.
Mr. Applebaum fractured his ankle. Doctor Ashland is treating him in exam seven.
See that. No problem. Brenda smiles, covering her mouth.
This is the emergency chart. See the blue star, that means the patient has been diagnosed. After he's treated, we put a red circle here.
How do you like those braces? Brenda looks embarrassed as she stares at Frank.
I guess they',okay.
Mine were bottoms. I h 'e(E hhem. I still have my mouth qua
You have really nice teeth.
And you have a pretty smile. Brenda tries not to smile, shaking her head and covering her face.
I'm serious. I think those braces look really good on you. Brenda starts to blush as she continues to write her letter.
What are you writing?
A letter to Ringo.
What does it say?
I can't tell you. I'm embarrassed.
Come on. What does it say?
It says I love him. Pretty stupid, right. Ringo Starr is never going to read my letter. Frank stares at Brenda, starts to smile as she puts her letter in a drawer.
Brenda, do you know if they're hiring here at the h ital?
Harvard Medical School, top of your class, Children's Hospital of Los Angeles, Peace Corps volunteer in North Africa. A pretty impressive resume, Doctor Connors? Why do you want to work here?
I came to Atlanta to relax, to get away from my practice for a year. But to be honest, I'm a little bored out at River Bend.
Unfortunately, the only thing I need is an emergency room supervisor for my midnight to eight shift, someone to baby-sit six interns and thirty nurses. But I doubt you'd be interested in that.
Would I get to pick my own nurses?
Doctor Connors, here is your temporary license, which allows you to practice medicine in the state of Georgia for up to one year. And now let me be the first to say, welcome to Marietta General.
Brenda Strong? He smiles at Brenda, who covers her mouth as she smiles back.
Here.
Doctor Paul Ashland.
Sir... will you be taking role every night?
Yes. And if you're going to be late, I suggest you bring a note.
Good evening, tJr Connors.
Button your shirt, M can see you bra strap. i is s a hospital, not a sororit
Any change in the patient, Doctor Marks?
Doctor Kildare, I think we should try the shock therapy before it's too late. Frank sits alone in his apartment eating popcorn and watching DR. KILDARE on TV.
Doctor White, do you concur?
Yes. I concur.
Doctor Connors, you need to sign these. Brenda walks in and hands him the clipboard. Frank starts to scribble on the charts, the way Doctor's scribble out prescriptions.
Do you notice anything different about me, Doctor Connors?
I kept trying to show '4 ) l night.
Did it hurt when they took them off? Mine felt so weird after.
I keep rubbing my tongue over them. I can't stop. It's so slippery.
It feels good, doesn't it?
Yes_ It feels incredible. Frank leans toward Brenda, gently starts to kiss her. As the passion increases WE HEAR the HOSPITAL P.A. SYSTEM.
Doctor Connors, please come to Emergency. Doctor Connors to Emergency. Frank continues to kiss Brenda.
Shouldn't you go?
There's a staff Doctor in the emergency ward.
What if he's in surgery?
Do you really think I have to go?
In here, Doctor Connors. Frank walks toward a closed curtain, stands in front of a bed and forces himself to look-'He sees a blood splattered sheet and three young INTERNS standing over the leg of an
Well, what do we have here?
Bicycle accident. A fracture of the tibia, about five inches below the patella. Frank stares at the boy's face, trying not to look at the open wound.
Doctor Hollis, do you concur?
Concur with what, Sir?
What Doctor Ashland just said.
So you concur?
Well, I'm not sure we can...
I think we should take an x-ray, then stitch him up and put him in a walking cast.
I blew it, didn't I? Wh idn't I concur? I panicked!
He wrote me back. Ringo wrote me back! Doctor Connors, come quick! I got a letter from Ringo Starr, he signed his name and said I was his biggest fan!
I bought you a present. Brenda hands him wrapped present.
Open it. Frank quickly opens the box, takes out a TINY GOLD DOCTOR'S
Now when you're walki nd the hospital, you'll feel l"the real thing. She pins the Cadecus on his lapel, and Frank can't help but smile.
Brenda, I want to go away with you. I'll take you anywhere you want to go.
I haven't really been anywhere.
Just name the place, and we can go. Africa, Egypt, it doesn't matter.
Can we go to Liverpool.
Where's Liverpool?
It's where the Beatles are from in Europe.
Okay. We'll go to Liverpool.
You're joking, right. We're not really going to Liverpool, are we?
Brenda, how would you like to be head nurse at the hospital? is
But I'm not a nurse. I'm a candy striper.
They'll laugh at m k, please don't make me the h e. Promise me you won't do that, t even give a shot.
Just think about it, Brenda. You and I could run this hospital one day.
I just need to go inside and take a quick look around?
He's at work, so search all you want. But if you find any money in there, it belongs to me. Debbie Zane - 5
WE SEE a black and white picture of Paula and Frank Sr. sitting on the front of a U.S. ARMY TANK. Joe takes Frank Sr.'s black briefcase off the shelf and flips it open. He reaches inside and pulls out a stack of POSTCARDS -- all sent by Frank to his father. Joe smiles as he flips over the postcard, stares down at a picture of CLARK GABLE and
He's in Atlan Sean! No, I'm not coming back o ashington. I'm going straight to G and I'll meet the team they hit, I'm out of dimes. Sean, w 3, I'm out of dimes! Frank and Brenda are lying in bbt(c.ther, staring at each other in the ceiling mirrors.
It's okay. You don't have to cry.
I'm sorry, I just can't do this.
Brenda, it's okay. I don't care about you being a virgin. I can wait.
I want to sleep with you. I really do. Brenda sits up, starts getting dressed.
I haven't told you the truth. I'm not a virgin. I had an abortion two years ago. My parents found out and kicked me out of the house. Brenda covers her face with a pillow, starts to cry.
I had an abortion, and they said I wasn't their daughter anymore.
It's okay.
Then a few months ago they apologized and said I was their daughter, but I couldn't come home for awhile. I'm so sorry, Frank, please don't be mad.
I ask them all the but they won't let me come h M Y Da d' a lawyer, and he and this contract. He calls it a al agreement.
What if you were engaged to a doctor, would that change anything? Brenda removes the pillow from her face, stares at Frank.
What?
What if I went to your parents, spoke to your father and asked his permission to marry you?
Don't tease me, Frank.
I'm not teasing.
You would go home with me to New Orleans?
We can leave right now, never come back.
We're clear. It's empty. There's a fondue pot in the kitchen, bean bag chairs in the living room. Joe walks over to the wall -- stares at the framed HARVARD MEDICAL OkHOOL DIPLOMA.
Okay. Kick it in. The Agents kick down the door, and Joe Shaye walks into the office, stares at an electric typewriter that is humming on the desk.
Debbie Zane -
Doctor Connors, are you a Lutheran?
Yes, Sir. I'm a Lutheran.
Have you been to New Orleans before, Doctor?
No, Ma'am. This is my first time. And please, call me Frank.
Frank, would you like to say grace? Frank stares at Brend ah her parents, who bow their heads. He hesitates for a B T, WE SEE that he has no idea how to say grace. ROBETc `'''c d) Unless you're not i V able. Brenda peeks at Frank, who close 2 )eyes and bows his head.
Two little mice fell in a bucket of cream. The first mouse gave up and drowned, but the second mouse struggled so hard that he churned that cream into butter -- and he walked out. Amen. They all lift their heads, clearly impressed. Robert turns to Frank and smiles.
Amen. That was beautiful. Frank turns to Brenda, gives her a wink.
Who is this?
President Johnson.
Right. That's very good, Sir.
It's just a hobby. Every Sunday night I go into the garage, pretend I'm an artist. Sometimes I stay in there for hours, hiding from the world, making a fool out of myself.
No, Sir. You are an artist.
What about you, Frank? Where do you go when you need to hide?
Have you decided whic want to work at here in
To be honest, I've been thinking about getting back into law.
What do you mean? Are you a lawyer or a doctor?
Before I went to medical school I passed the bar in California. I practiced law for a year, then decided to try my hand at pediatrics.
A doctor and a lawyer. I'd say Brenda hit the jackpot. Where did you go to law school?
Berkeley.
Berkeley. Well, now she's hit the Irish Sweepstakes. Would you be interested in coming to work for an old man who barely made his way through Stanford. My office is desperate for Assistant Prosecutors.
You would give me a job?
If you're going to marry Brenda, it's the least I can do.
What would I have to do to take the bar here in New Orleans?
BERKELEY TRANSCRIPTS, co e e with Berkeley Logo and stationery. Frank hands m th oc ents to a WOMAN sitting behind a desk, who hands him WUISIANA BAR EXAM.
Good luck, Mister Conno
Look at that. They show movies on planes now. What's next? Frank and Joe stare at a small MOVIE SCREEN thirty rows in front of them.
Are you gonna eat that eclair?
Yeah. I'm gonna eat it later.
Do you want to split it?
No. Joe moves his eclair away from Frank. JOE SHAYE You know what I could never figure out, Frank? How you cheated on the bar exam in Louisiana.
What's the difference?
Did you have somebody else take the test for you?
I'm going to prison for a long time, Joe? What's t)1 difference?
Frank wears a new TAN SUIT and holds a TAN BRIEFCASE as he walks through the busy law office with Brenda's father.
You'll be working under Phillip Rigby in corporate law, handling small claims made against the state, trespass-to-try-title suits, most of it won't get past a pre-trial motion. Frank looks down at his desk, picks up the nameplate which reads: FRANK CONNORS, ASSISTANT PROSECUTOR.
Why don't you settle in, organize your desk. We're having lunch with the District Attorney and Governor Davey at twelve-thirty. Debbie Zane -
But if you were at your office on the day of the murder, Mr. Darius, then how could you know your wife had left the gate open? Your honor, ladies and gentleman of the jury, this is irrefutable evidence that the defendant is lying!
I have four letters in my hand that were sent to the defendant's apartment, ea one warning him that his buildin to be sprayed with insecticide, at he should cover his belonging o honor, ladies and gentleman t e jury, this is irrefutable evid e tat the defendant is lying
Mister Connors, this is reliminary hearing. There's no defendant, no jury, it's just me. What the hell is wrong with you?
Well? Frank starts to smile.
Case dismissed! Frank shakes Robert's hand, and Robert pulls him close and "' gives him a hug. Debbie Zane - 5
Okay. Reach your hand out and feel that. What do you think it is? Brenda reaches out and touches a DOORKNOB.
What is it, Frank?
It's our front door. I made an offer today. Frank removes his hands, and Brenda looks up at the giant, six bedroom house that sits on a cul-de-sac.
What do you t)k?
It's so big. Are you h e(Q can afford it?
We're gonna have it all, Brenda.
But where will we get the money for a house like this?
The same place everyone gets it. The bank.
Why do you have to go?
I agreed to speak at this medical conference six months ago. Your father understands. Frank grabs his briefcase and gets out of the car.
Why can't I go with you?
Next time. I promise.
As I stated on the Pan Am has been unhappy for so t about the quality of their expe cks. we're looking for a new m to handle the printing.
About twenty thousand checks a year.
For starters, why don't you show me how you make your checks.
Just put it anywhere. They set the camera down, AND WE SLOWLY PULL BACK, see that Frank has turned this office into his own print shop-
This stuff is heavy. What kind of business you in?
I make checks for Pan Am. Frank motions out the window, where WE SEE THE PAN AM BUILDING directly across the street.
A PAPER CUTER SLICING the edg no<`'A newly printed PAN AM
Who?
Director Marsh, Frank Abagnale is no longer forging checks. He's moved on to counterfeiting, making his own Pan Am expense checks from scratch. Next slide. The slide changes. JOE SHAYE The amounts have increased to almost one thousand dollars per check, and the quality, as you can see, is virtually flawless.
How much ha' glen so far?
Our latest estim of about three and a half million s. He's now the most successful bber in the history of the Un ates. DIRECTOR MARSH is holding one of Frank's checks, running his hands along the printed blue and white surface.
And how close are you to getting him?
Sir, with your help I feel an arrest could come at any time. We believe he could be in New Orleans.
I'll give you thirty more agents and I'll bump him up to the ten most wanted list.
The President keeps his money in a bank. We'll tell him he's fair game like the rest of us.
How about a little music, Dad?
I took a job. A government job. You see what I'm doing? Do you have a good lawyer?
Dad, I am a lawyer.
Look at this letter.  They kicked me out. They took away my membership at the Rotary Club. They accused me of terrible things, made up a list of lies just to keep me out. I'm gonna sue them, a lifetime membership is what I have. I have the plaque, the letters of congratulations.
Has Mom seen you dressed like that?
Your mother doesn't know what she wants.
We'll go out together and get you a suit. A new black suit. One of those Manhattan Eagle three button black pearls.
Those are nice. We'll have a drink first.
Dad, I'm getting married in two weeks- I'm buying a sixty thousand dollar house, a new Cadillac. I'm getting it all back, everything they took from us. I wa you and Mom to come to the wedd' g ogether.
You have to ask herd o ve to fight for her. Prom is Q u won't let her see you dressed a this.
She won't come, because she just had a baby. Frank stares at his father for a long BEAT. FRANK SR. A little girl. She had a little girl.
Were leveled off. You mind taking her for a minute, I need to use the bathroom.
Wait. What are you doing?
I need five minutes. I'd do it for you. The Pilot walks out of the cockpit, and Frank turns to the
He left .
He's got an ulcer. Frank gets out of the JUMP-SEAT, walks over and sits in the PILOT'S SEAT. He looks at the instruments, the WHEEL moving on it's own in front of him. Frank stares out the front wirr2>;s w' p the cockpit -- the blackness in front of him - - hi starting to shake as he slowly reaches up and puts his ds on the wheel --
Okay. Shut it off. The Auto-Pilot flips the switch, and Frank holds on for dear life as he flies the plane into the darkness.
This is Shaye.
Debbie Zane -
Hello, Joe. Merry Christmas. Joe grabs a pad and pencil.
I thought you might call. Where are you?
I don't know, exactly. An airport somewhere.
What do you want, Doctor Connors?
Joe, I haven't been Doctor Connors for months now.
Fuck you. I' fitting here in my office on C r -Eve, so just tell me what o
It's over. I want ver now. I'm getting married.' Vttling down.
You've stolen four million dollars. t You think we're just gonna call it a wedding present? This isn't something you get to walk away from, Frank.
I want to call a truce
There is no truce. You will be caught, and you will go to prison. Where did you think this was going?
Please, leave me alone, Joe. I don't want to do it anymore. Don't make me do it anymore-
I'm close aren't I? You're scared because I'm getting close. How close am I?
Will you stop chasing me?
I can't stop. This is my job.
It's okay, Joe. I just thought I'd ask.
Come with me. Debbie Zane -
Frank, can you believe this party is for us?
We have to leave, Brenda. You love me, right? I mean, you would love me no matter what?
Of course.
If I was poor, or sick, or if T' had a different name. A name means n i g, right? My name is Frank Co s. That's who I am with you. We al secrets. Sometimes when I tr 1 use the name Frank Williams t r my secret.
Frank Williams?
It means nothing -- Frank Williams, Frank Black -- when I'm with you, I'm Frank Connors -- that's all that matters.
Why are you saying this?
Brenda, I don't want to lie anymore. I'm not a doctor. I never went to medical school. Brenda smiles, thinks he's joking.
And I'm not a lawyer or a Harvard graduate or a Lutheran. I ran away from home a year and a half ago when I was sixteen.
Stop teasing me, Frank. You're Frank Connors, right? You're Frank Connors and you're 28-years-old. Why would you lie to me? Brenda turns to Frank, trying not to get upset.
Frank, what's your name? I want you to tell me your name.
We'll go to Liverpool. We can live there, Brenda, you and I can live wherever we want. I have money, enough for the rest our lives. But you're gonna have ust me. Do you trust me? Do you 1ov, I love you.
No matter what. Even ave to live in Liverpool, or I a different name -- you'll still love
me?
But we'll never tell anyone the truth. You can't tell you parents.
No. We won't tell anyone. And we'll go away. I don't care if I ever see my parents again. I just want to be with you.
We'll leave tonight.
But the wedding is next month. It's all planned. We can leave right after the reception, just like a honeymoon.
No, we have to leave today. I'll pick you up at your parents house in two hours.
Two hours?
We'll get married in Liverpool. Would you like that?
Yes. I love you, Frank. But please, before we go -- tell me your name.
Hello, Brenda. My name is Joe Shaye, and I'm with the FBI.
Ringo.
I know this is all a bit scary, but I need you to tell me where Frank is going. A lot of people are looking for him out there, and the last thing we want is for Frank to get hurt. And I swear to you, Brenda, if you tell me where he's going -- I'll keep him safe.
You promise?
Yes. I prom" e Just tell me where he's going. Liverpool.
Are there any more flights tonight?
I'm sorry, Sir, there's nothing until morning. This airport shuts down at eleven.
We have to stop him before he leaves the country. I want everyone we have inside Miami International. He's used that airport before, he knows
He doesn't have a passport, Joe.
In the last six months he's gone to Harvard and Berkeley -- I'm betting he can get a passport.
I already talked to the Miami police, they've offered fifty uniformed cops in two shifts of twenty-five.
Joe, with our guys that's almost a hundred men in one airport. Don't you think we should spread it around.
No. Miami i h'ff exit point. Now all we have to o tch him.
Excuse me. Where do you p the death records?
Hello. I'd like to get a copy of my birth certificate, please.
The name is Frank Taylor. I was born December 3, 1938, in Tampa.
I'd like to get a passport, please.
Never.
Will this take long. I'm trying to catch a flight.
This is Frank Taylor, and I'm letting all the universities in the area know that Pan Am will be initiating a new recruiting program this year. I'll be stopping by your campus tomorrow morning. Debbie Zane - '
Ladies, quiet down, please. As you all know, Pan Am has sent 'a pilot here to interview prospective stewardesses for a new Summer internship program. This is Captain Taylor, and he'll be talking to you today. Frank stands in front of the girls, who suddenly get very quiet.
Judy, what does the word "abroad" mean to you?
When I hear the word abroad, I think of crossing the ocean and traveling to distant lands.
Thank you.
And what's this, Monica?
The wing.
Very good- And this? The tail. Excellent.
Debra Jo McMillian. DEBRA JO comes screaming out from the sea of girls, hugging friends and crying as if she had just won the Ms. America Pageant.
Heather Shack. HEATHER SHACK screams and rushes into Debra Jo's arms, the two girls screaming as Frank continues to announce the winners.
Will Mr. Joe Shaye k a white courtesy phone. Mr. J e, please pick up a white courtes one. in the distance, JOE watches as the eight girls walk toward him. He hesitates for a BEAT, then walks to the back of the restaurant and finds a WHITE PHONE.
This is Shaye.
Joe, you're walkie talkie wasn't working. There's a guy in a Pan Am uniform sitting in a white Cadillac in front of terminal J!
That's the charter terminal. Can you' see his face?
He's got his Pilot's cap on. I think it's him!
Frank, get out of the car! Put your hands on the hood! There's no place to run, so just make it easy on yourself! The car door opens, aMd YEAR-OLD kid gets out of the car, his hands shaking s e(jtares at Joe -- the pilot's cap falling off his head.
Don't shoot me ! I ' m\ ,s` ' ,driver! A man paid me a hundr ars to wear this uniform and p someone up at the airport!
who are you picking up?
Joe Shaye. Joe lowers his gun, immediately turns back toward theairport -- watches as a BRITISH AIRWAYS JET takes off and flies overhead, banking left and sailing out over the ocean.
This just came for you, Sir. Who do you know in Liverpool? Joe takes the envelope and slowly opens it. He pulls out a stack of BLACK AND WHITE PHOTOGRAPHS, all of which show the EIGHT COLLEGE GIRLS in various locations. There are shots of them on the SPANISH STEPS IN ROME, at the EIFFEL TOWER, in front of BUCKINGHAM PALACE, and in front of SCOTLAND YARD. A POSTCARD OF THE MONA LISA is inside the envelope, with the words "WISH YOU WERE HERE" written across the back.
Excuse me. Do u know where the Lavalier fa lives?
Hello. Do you speak English? Monique nods.
My name is Frank. My mother is Paula Lavalier. I was hoping to find my family. Monique takes Frank by the hand, starts to smile.
I am Monique, your aunt. Monique hugs him, kisses his cheeks.
It's very good wine. The family starts to laugh at him.
What?
The wine here is shit. This valley only grows shit wine. It is used for stretching.
What's stretching?
They send our ne by truck to the famous vine r of Bordeaux and Burgundy, a d mix it with the good wine to r (he people.
The Americans thi only the best. But drinking the shit fro Everyone laughs hysterically, and Frank joins in, the family laughing together as they eat Sunday dinner.
Here. Your mother sent me this to me a few months ago. Monique hands Frank a color photograph. Frank looks at the picture, sees Paula standing with Jack Wright, holding a BABY in her arms.
You look like your new sister.
Everyone says that.
My name is Frank Wagner, and I'll be teaching the Summer session of American History, the same course I taught at Yale last year. Why don't you all open your books to chapter one, read quietly to yourselves.
Dear Dad. I'm re ad %ow, living a quiet life in a sm lage in France. I hope you g well, and you're not mad at running away. Frank blows out the candles on the cake. FRANK Yesterday was my 19th birthday, and when I blew out the candles I wished that we could all be together, the three of us living in our old house in New Rochelle.
I have to pick Pappa up, his car is dead. Come with me, Frank, you can see where he works? Debbie Zane - 5
What is this place?
The family business.
I thought the family business was wine?
No. Paper.
The giant machine fills warehouse. SIX MEN work in the massive press room, t r afening THUMP of the machine shaking the walls as it strugYle, it out 10 COLOR PAGES a minute. WE SEE samples of their ning the walls -- FRENCH
What do you think?
I've read books about these machines. But I've never seen one.
You want me to show you how it works?
Yes.
For color printing we set the back gears, then put the plates in up- side-down, pour the ink in last,
never when it's cold, then we roll the cylinder brakes until they catch...
I don't know.
Joe...he cashed a check in Madrid.
Singapore. Australia. South America:' Egypt. He's also hit almost every major bank in Europe.
Nobody was called, Sir. The banks didn't know what was happening until last week. We think he's been on the run for five months.
He's making real checks, Sir. These are so perfect, Pan Am cashed them all.
The last check was cashed in Paris a week ago. He'll stay there another week before he moves on. We have to go now, Sir, today!
Paris.
English. Do you speak English? I'm an American FBI Agent. Hello? Shit! Joe slams down the phone, walks out'of his office. JOE SHAYE Does anyone here speak French. I need someone who speaks French!
He's not an agent, Joe. He's a waiter at the restaurant around the corner.
Julien.
Who answered the phone? What's his name.
His name is Detective Julien. He works in the vice squad in Paris
That's fine. Tell him I have a proposition for him. Tell him the FBI has a proposition for him. Oliver translates as Joe paces in front of him.
Okay. What's the proposition?
Ask him if he'd like to catch the greatest bank robber the world has ever known.
DETECTIVE JULIEN sitting al--h!ts riesk, his expression suddenly changing as he glances aroun tation. He quickly puts the crossword puzzle away and rips into the phone. Abagnale.
Where to, Mister Wagner?
Let's go for a drive. I need some supplies. The limo drives off. Debbie Zane - 5
When he gets to a new city he starts out slow, hitting the banks on the outskirts of town. At first it's small checks in small banks that pose little or no threat. WE HEAR OLIVER'S TRANSLATION behind Joe's voice. JOE SHAYE Then he starts moving in, circling the city like a mother hawk, picking off every little bank he can find -- slowly inching his way toward the center of the city.
DETECTIVE JULIEN -- standing in the middle of Paris, looking down an endless row of massive banks.
He'll make his move right before lunch, when everyone's mind is on food and the lines are short. And he likes to stand out -- draw attention to himself.
The more people see him, the more invisible he becomes.
Frank turns the check over a tees L. check to the teller, but she s take 1 it.
Is there something wrong? The bank teller is shaking and staring at Frank. He slowly turns around, sees DETECTIVE JULIEN standing behind him with his gun drawn.
Joe, you have to let me call my father when we land- I want to talk to him before he sees me on television.
Your father i ead, Frank. I'm sorry. Frank turns to Joe. JOu i He committed su 0.cL didn't want to be the one to t
Suicide. No. That's imps 'ibl
They found him inside his car, the motor running, the garage door shut.
who are they to think that? Who are they to say something like that?!
It's okay, Frank.
Joe, I'm gonna be sick! I have to use the bathroom. Joe quickly takes off Frank's handcuffs, and he jumps from his seat and runs into the bathroom. Joe stands in the aisle with Amdursky and Fox. Debbie Zane - 5
Frank.
Break it down. Amdursky starts kicking at the bathroom door, slamming his heel against the metal release. The door breaks free, and the three men stares in disbelief at the EMPTY BATHROOM.
The plane has landed and stopped short on the runway. WE SEE Frank crawling through a HATCH near the landing gear. He drops fifteen feet to the ground below, starts running across the runway.
Look under every seat, in every bathroom. Check it all again, even the cockpit! As Joe starts moving through the plane, something outside the window catches his eye.
God in heaven...
Frank stumbles down the cent e, dropping to his knees and fainting before he reach= h ter.
Frank opens his eyes, sees his mother standing at the window in a PRIEST'S PRIVATE OFFICE -- a cigarette in her hand, a row of collection plates on the desk in front of her...
You want a sip of water? Paula hands Frank some water. He sits up and stares at his mother.
Why didn't you help him?
I did help him. Near the end I sent him money, did you know that?
I paid his rent. I was a kid when we met, Frankie. I didn't even speak English -- I didn't even know his last name.
Then why did you marry him?
Because he got me pregnant. I was seventeen, and I was told I was going to marry him. They put me on a plane, and said I was the luckiest girl in the world.
What about the baby?
The baby died an hour after it was born. The Doctor's knew as soon as he came out. Paula lights a fresh
It was a boy. T telling me I should hold him, didn't want to. I was scared he ie in my arms, so I said no. C imagine that, Frank, I didn't to hold my own son? Frank walks toward his mother and takes the cigarette out of her mouth.
You promised. He doesn't look back at her as he walks out the door.
Taking into account your refusal to give back the money, your history of bold escape and your complete lack of respect for the uniform of the law, I have no choice but to sentence you to eighteen years in Atlanta's maximum security prison in Dixon county, and recommend strongly that you be kept in an isolation cell for the entirety of that sentence.
Merry Christmas, Frank.
I got some cigarettes here.
I don't smoke. An awkward moment as Joe puts the cigarettes on the floor.
They say the first year inside is the hardest.
You caught me. What do you want?
I don't know. Maybe this was a bad idea. I'll go. As Joe starts to put the phone down.
You're still wearing a wedding ring.
Yeah. The truth is, I'm divorced- I have a daughter who's nine.
What's her name?
Vanessa. She lives in Chicago with her mother. I don't see her much. Frank stares at Joe for a BEAT. I'm on my way el tJe airport. I'm tracking a paper ge who's working his way through Mit This guy is driving us crazy.
Do you have any of the checks?
Joe hesitates, then opens his briefcase and takes out a CHECK. He holds it against the glass.
This is a counterfeit from Great Lakes Savings and Loan. You can see that he's using a...
It's a teller at the bank.
What?
It's a teller.
How do you know?
Every bank uses hand stamps for the dates. They get used over and over, so they're always worn down, and the numbers are always cracking -- the sixes and nines go first. Look at the date on that check -- the ink is worn flat, the nines and sixes are cracking -- that's the stamp of a teller, Joe. Looks like you got yourself an inside job.
Eastern flight 794 you are clear to taxi on runway_two-zero-four. That's a big thank y, and goodbye, Newark. Ladies and eman, we are leveled off here at't five thousand feet. The sm gns have been turned off for of you in a designated smoki My name is Captain Frank Will so just sit back, relax, an the flight to Milan.
Joe, one of these days you should get yourself a new jacket. What is that material? Frank touches Joe's jacket.
Cashmere.
That isn't cashmere -- look at the lining. It's some kind of polyester. You should see my tailor in New York.
Frank, this is FBI Director Marsh. He wanted to meet you.
At four in the morning? 1 1
That's righ ve years, two months.
I'd like you tcY o k at something for me, tell me UO %u think. Director Marsh takes an enveldi j of a briefcase, slides it over to Frank. Frank opens t lope and pulls out a PAYROLL CHECK. He holds the check is hand, never looks at it.
It's a fake.
There's no perforated edge, which means this check was hand cut, not fed. The paper is double bonded, much too heavy for a check. The ink is raised against my fingers instead of flat. Frank brings the check to his nose, sniffs it.
I already have a job here. I deliver the mail.
No, Frank. We'd get you out.
Why are you saying this, Joe? You caught me, isn't that enough? Why can't you lea ' me alone?
Frank, we ha wer to take you out of prison. be placed in the custody of t where you'd serve the remainde ur sentence as an employee of t al government.
Whose custody?
Mine.
I'm Frank Abagnale. I'm supposed to start work here today.
First floor, Mr. Abagnale.
Call me Frank.
Morning, Joe. Frank turns and stares at a door marked FRAUD. He casually walks inside.
Look at me,
I'd rather stay in a hotel.
That's not possible. Frank opens the drapes and looks out at a POLICE STATION that sits across the street from his apartment.
One of the men gave me a check today. It was for nine dollars.
That's right. The FBI is paying you prison wages. Joe turns to walk out the door.
Tomorrow's Christmas Eve. Would it be okay if I went to work with you?
Tomorrow night I'm flying to Chicago to see my daughter. But I'll be back at work on Monday.
Joe. . .what do I do until Monday?
I can't help you there, kid.
That's a nice uniform, Frank. Here, let me get your check. Joe grabs the check from Frank, puts some money on the table. JOE SHAYE Did you know I was recruited by the FBI while I was still in law school? The government said I was the best the country had to offer, top of my class -- and they chased me until I said yes.
I'm sorry, Joe.
I spent four years arranging your release. I convinced the Attorney General of the United States that you wouldn't run. Frank gets out of his fir, walks out of the restaurant. Joe follows him throw h, irport. JO' : E You go back to E pe rpd you'll die in Papigone. You run here in the states and w 1 d you back to Atlanta for f' ars.
I never asked for your help.
Please, Frank, you leave and I'm finished. I got you out, I convinced them to let you out.
Why did you do it?
You're just a kid.
I'm not your kid. I'm not your son. I'm nothing to you. And you're nothing to me. Frank walks toward the AMERICAN AIRLINES ticket counter.
I'm gonna let you fly tonight. I won't even try and stop you, because I know you'll be back on Monday.
Why would I come back?
Because nobody is chasing you. Frank stares at Joe for a long BEAT.
Two mice fell in a bucket of cream. The first mouse gave up and drowned, but the second mouse struggled so hard he churned that cream into butter and he crawled out.
Which one are you, Frank? Frank turns to the gin? ar the TICKET COUNTER.
Hello, Amanda,   s s Jh e jump-seat open on the ten-thirt  N,wYork? Joe watches as Frank walks thk oor marked CREW ONLY, casually making his way toward D une.
is Abagnale in yet?
No.
Good morning. I've called this emergency briefing to discuss a check
Don't ask. The briefing room door opens, and Frank walks in. Joe spots him in the darkness. JOE SHAYE Good. You're here. The two men stare at each other for a BEAT. JOE SHAYE At this time I'd like my point man on this to fill you in. Frank, are you ready to Ake over?
John Doe 6116 is a pa ; er who started in Phoenix, usz at I call a double deposit forgery system. Next slide. What he's doing is opening two accounts at the same bank under two different names...
Joe, do you guys always fly coach?
Yeah.
You want me to talk to someone? See if I can get us bumped to first class?
Just relax. We'll be there in two hours. Frank looks out the window.
I've never been to Arizona.
It's hot. Let's just hope-we catch this guy fast.
Joe, you ever seen the Grand Canyon?
No.
I feel a little silly in this suit.
It looks good. You just have to get used to it.
How much did you say it cost?
Eight hundred dollars.
Where did you get eight hundred dollars?
Credit card.
Somebody gave you a credit card? That's a horrifying thought. The two men sit in silence for a BEAT, staring down at their magazines, lost in thought. JOE SHAYE Can I ask you something, Frank?
Sure.
How did you pass the bar exam in Louisiana?
I studied every night for two weeks.
Is that the truth? Frank turns to the wipf'or?, slowly starts to smile as he looks out at the clouds. FRANK ABAGNALE JR. HAS BEEN Qf MOR 25 YEARS. HE HAS THREE TEENAGE SONS, AND LIVES r V LIFE IN TULSA, OKLAHOMA.
