 Yes Donna, I'm out the door. We TRACK over the Woman's shoulder and follow her into the kitchen, unable to see her face.
Just inform Kayleigh that anesthesia is on the way to prep the epidural and I'll be there as soon as I can. Still looking over her shoulder, we watch her absently straighten a PHOTOGRAPH of her son on the fridge as she talks.
And promise her she's about to have a woooonnderful labor. As the woman pours herself a fresh cup of coffee, her HOUSEKEEPER enters the kitchen with a full laundry basket. They give each other a silent wave.
Right, I'll see you in twenty. She hangs up her cordless and takes a breath as we COME AROUND to finally REVEAL JESSICA MARTIN; slightly weary, but ready for the day ahead.
Buenas dias, Rosario.
Good morning Miss Jessica. Jessica sees her answering machine blinking, hits PLAY. In the background, a cheerful Rosario enters frame and heads for the back door carrying the basket of laundry.
 Honey? Honey, wake up.   Pick up the- And as she brings the coffee cup to her lips-- SLAMM!! The door EXPLODES open and a squad of FIVE GUNMEN storm in, wearing SKI-MASKS. Everything is a whirlwind of quick cuts, noise and confusion. Jessica's DOG starts to lunge at the men and -- thup! -- is stilled by a silenced pistol before its second bark. Rosario runs for the ALARM SYSTEM --
Get away from there! Don't touch that -- !! -- but as she reaches out for the PANIC BUTTON -- BLAM!!     He blows her away, too. The Gunman curses, then turns on Jessica.
 Where is he? Jessica cringes.
Where is who?
Wrong answer. The bastard hauls back and -- WHAM I -- punches her in the face, knocking Jessica cold. Then he turns to his men.
Search the house. And as the answering machine fills the silence:
 -I'll call back later. The LEAD GUNMAN spins around, and we PUSH INTO the blackness of his masked face.
Wh... what do you want? Unsettlingly, the Kidnapper says nothing, staring at her. Jessica tries to remain calm under his angry gaze... Then suddenly, the Kidnapper turns and exits the room. Jessica breathes a sigh of relief...but it catches in her throat as he returns ten seconds later -- with a BASEBALL BAT. Grim as death, he stalks toward her --
No, wait.. And reaching.her, he hauls back and SWINGS --
SMASH! The bat connects with a wooden beam an inch above Jessica's head, OBLITERATING the ROTARY DIAL TELEPHONE that hung there. As phone guts shower down on her, the Lead Kidnapper turns and stomps away, slamming the attic door shut and locking Jessica in the darkness. Only now that they're gone does Jessica allow her fear to show through. Trembling, tears running down her face, Jessica finally breaks down, pleading to the empty attic--
Wha... what the hell is happening?! The attic's suffocating silence is the only answer she gets.
Skimming along the water. And we TILT UP to reveal the majestic beaches of Southern California, and at the center of it all, the SANTA MONICA
You recording this?
Yeah, sure... CHAD, his best bud, aims a BLUE TOOTH VIDEOSTREAMING CELLPHONE at some CUTE GIRLS instead. We can see their faces on the tiny SCREEN of the cellphone. Ryan's car gets caught behind a blue speedster, then passes on the shoulder.
Move, bitch. He gets an EXTENDED PLAY and the screen flashes "NEW RECORD." Nearby, a KID watching the game nods.
Nice. The HIGH SCORE starts rising to match Ryan's score.
Get that? Ryan turns around to see Chad has shoved the cellphone down the front of his tattered shorts. And he's freeballing it.
Check it; Attack of the Bubblegum Monster in Hi-Def videostream-
C'mon Chad, I gotta put my mouth on that. Holding a cup of soda between his teeth, Chad pulls the cellphone out of his pants and hits "SEND".
 Sweet. It's going to my email right now. S9me soda inadvertently SPILLS onto the cellphone and Chad wipes it dry on his pants.
Watch it dude, I gotta return that thing in seven days.
They aren't giving you shit yet?
Nah, whenever I return it, I just list off why the phone sucks and they give me a new model. Figure by the tenth time I'll have to go somewhere else. Ryan's car finally CRASHES in a wall of flames.       Game Over.
As seen looking over the rail of the pier.      The tide is in, but it's still a forty foot drop.
Go already. No one's looking. His left hand holds his WALLET.
 Need me to hold that? Ryan sticks it in the pocket of his surfer shorts -- he zips a zipper, tucks a Velcro flap. Pats his pocket proudly.
Waterproof. But as soon as Ryan covertly CLIMBS ONTO THE RAIL, his left leg starts trembling like crazy.
This is stupid. I could get killed. Pick another dare. Chad lowers the phone, irritated.
My ass. Not after you made me march in the Gay Pride Parade wearing a thong.
Screw it then. In one... Two... Two and a half--
Whole numbers only, Rabbitfoot. Ryan stares at the waves crashing below. His leg starts snaking like crazy... And he chickens out, hopping back to the deck.
Just so you know, I'm emailing this to every chick you ever met. But suddenly Ryan's oblivious to the dare.   His eyes are glued to something else--
 Transmitting pussy file now. CHLOE, early 20s, a head turner, confident, funny; she can pull you in like a tractor beam. She and some CUTE FRIENDS carry heavy cardboard boxes toward a table set up for the "Heal The Bay" rally. Ryan walks over like he owns the place.
Got any more? I'm here to help.
Thanks, but no, we got 'em all.
What's in 'em? Chloe opens the box.    Hands him a "Heal The Bay" pamphlet.
Cool, you're handing these out during the concert?
Yeah, wanna help? Ryan tries to ignore his thundering heart.
Hell yeah.     I'm all about "Heal the Bay. " His eyes ricochet off the pamphlet in his hand.
Me an Chad do the monthly cleanup thing, of course... An awesome wing-man, Chad appears over Chloe's shoulder, pretending to read a pamphlet, but really holding it up so Ryan can see it. Piece of cake, now.
We've collected water samples with the Stream Team, raised money on the Promenade... I'm surprised I haven't seen you. He offers his hand.
Ryan. She takes it.
Chloe. The handshake lingers a second longer than necessary, and they both smile at each other. Chad splits.
I can't tell if you're full of it. Ryan stops posturing, gets real.
You ever go up to Santa Barbara? My dad used to take me there all
the time. Their pier is amazing, clear water, huge crabs everywhere, oysters right there on the rocks, starfish... Hard to believe it's the same ocean sometimes. He's managed to win her back.
Maybe you and I can take a break later when Pat Benatar goes on.
Sounds like a plan. There's a moment...     Then --
Oh no -- I forgot. I still have to pick up a box of T-shirts at the Kinkos on Venice.
I'll do it for you... if you want.
Seriously, you would?
Sure.     How much is the bill?
Nothing.    It's been paid up front.
Do you promise not to go anywhere?
Done. Ryan makes a graceful exit.       Turns back.
Okay, I won't be long.
 Bye. Ryan grabs Chad, and as they walk out of earshot:
Dude, does Santa Barbara have a harbor or a pier?
 Dex, wassup? You won't believe the hotties I just met at the pier. Smoking. You wanna meet them? Yeah? Well don't get too excited 'cause I need my money. Ryan stops at a red light.
Bullshit, you're not going anywhere,  I'm pulling up right now. Some AMBULANCES SPEED BY, SIRENS BLARING.   It's deafening. Ryan lays on the horn.   When the light changes, Ryan peels away angrily.
 What? Yeah, you better be. And I need your shower, I'm talkin' code red stankage- The CELLPHONE begins to CRACKLE with STATIC just as Ryan drives under an OVERPASS. Suddenly -- The car ahead of him STOPS in the middle of the street. Ryan notices too late and has to jam on the brakes. The car skids, he SCREAMS... and comes to a stop an inch before hitting the other car's bumper. He lifts the phone receiver to his ear but the call is WASHED
 Dex? You still there...? And as has happened to all of us, he loses the call.
Damn.
Sorry, got cut off.      Hey -- what's my Caller ID say? But there's no voice on the other end, only shuffling sounds.
Yo Dex...?
Hello...? Jessica's hands go suddenly still, then -- WHOOM! -- her head slams down INTO FRAME on top of the crushed earpiece, a desperate hope filling her eyes.
Whatever.    Signing off- -- and is just about to hit END CALL when he hears a tiny female voice on the other end.
Wait!    Don't hang up! Ryan puts the phone back to his ear.
Hello?
There's not much time! I need you to go to the police. My name is Jessica Martin; I've been kidnapped!
 Oh really? Kidnapped, huh?
Please. I know what you're thinking, but it's real! I'm in an attic somewhere. I think they're going to kill me! You need to-
Awfully polite kidnappers to give you a phone... Jessica's voice TREMBLES uncontrollably.        Desperate, fearful and frustrated.
No!   You don't understand! Suddenly, the cellphone BLIPS twice in Ryan's ear.          He pulls it away and looks at its faceplate.
If you were really in trouble, you would've called the cops, not me. Now I've got a real call on the other line--
Goddamn it, listen to me! The phone I'm on...it's shattered! There's no dialer! I've been clicking wires together for hours trying to get someone, anyone, and you 're the only connection I was able to make!  If you hang up, I may not get anyone else.
Hmm. Sucks to be you. Try crank yanking someone else. Late.
Wait!     Don't hang up!    DON'T HANG UP!! But -- CLICK!       Ryan flashes over to the next call.
Dex?
Hello, Mr. Ackerman. My name is Mark and I'd like to discuss with you the benefits of Mastercharge Credit Union's-
Awesome, I can totally use a credit card. Tell me more.
Absolutely.     We've lowered our APR-
-Shucks, now's really not a good time, but why don't I get your number and get back to you later.
Sure, it's 818...
That's the office number?
Yes.
Why don't you give me your number instead. That way I can call you when you're having dinner with your family. A beat.
Sorry to have bothered you. Click!    The Telemarketer hangs up.
Damn skippy. And that's when he notices the message flashing on the phone's faceplate: CALL ON HOLD. Ryan clicks the FLASH button to pick it up...and Jessica is still there.
--an you hear me?!
You still there? You're getting kinda creepy, lady. See ya.
No!    Don't! They're going to kill me!    They're going to kill me!! A silent beat.   A calculated look in her eyes... RYAN pulls the phone from his ear and is about to hang up...when he hears the one sound that stops all men cold. On the other end, Jessica begins to CRY.
Oh, it's like that, huh?     Nice with the fake tears, lady...
Please...   I just need help. But Ryan won't be manipulated.
You need acting lessons. Now go take your meds and bug someone else.
These men!!!-- Jessica stops herself short, quieting the rising hysteria in her voice before it gives her away. She glances anxiously at the attic door, then continues, more in control.
These men killed my housekeeper. My dog. You have to help me. Ryan bristles at being saddled with anything, much less this.
No, actually( I don't. Not with a hot chick waiting for me at the pier.
Please...you're my only hope.  What's your name? That catches Ryan off-guard.   He stalls, not wanting to make this personal.
Why, you writing a book--?
--Please, just tell me your name! Ryan glances around the street, his eyes falling on a stone fountain outside a French Restaurant.
Uh...Johnny. Johnny Fountain.
Johnny... What if it was your mother who was calling for help? How would you feel?
Well, I'd be damn impressed, considering she's dead.
Goddamn it, how difficult is it to hand this phone off to the police?! I'll pay you!
How much?
Five thousand dollars.
Sure you will. I'm hanging up now.
No, wait! WAIT!! Even if there's a eighty percent chance I'm lying, you nave a one in five chance to make five grand f9r a lousy twenty minutes of your life.  Haven't you ever bet on a horse or bought a Lottery ticket? I'm talking one-in-five odds, twenty minutes. Ryan slaps the radio off.
What do you want me to do?
In EXTREME SLOW-MOTION, chaos unfolds around us like a nightmare -- OFFICERS manhandle a drunk toward the back, a HOOKER screams at us with unholy rage, in the far corner, a JUNKIE spits on
MOONEY'S EYES.      Watching.   Counting... Suddenly -- WHAM!! Back to reality when a YOUNG GANGBANGER is slammed into the station desk by a ROOKIE.
Problem, Mooney. If I put this one in with the others, there's gonna be a bloodbath.
Put me in there! I'll waste all them pussies! REVEAL SERGEANT BOB MOONEY -- a tough, fifty-something beat cop who's fighting growing old every step of the way. He rolls his eyes at the situation and takes a bite of PIZZA.
Come on Powell, put the Sharks with the Sharks, the Jets with the Jets and make room. Rookie Powell suppresses his irritation and roughly yanks the Gangbanger back over to the holding cells. Mooney puts down the pizza, no appetite, and stares at the news story playing on the TV mounted in the corner.
...was somber when the indictments came down this afternoon in the 23rd Precinct corruption scandal. Though the names of six police officers were read aloud, the District Attorney stated that this was merely the "tip of the iceberg" and that unfortunately many other arrests are likely to be coming as the investigations proceed.
Sucks for the fellas at the Two- Three right now, huh?
Dirty pricks deserve what they get. Public hates us enough without this shit.
 There's good men over there. A FEMALE OFFICER passes Mooney and reaches for his box of pizza.
Mooney? What are you doing?      You can't be eating this crap. Mooney plants his own firm grip on the box.
Keep walking, Shelly.   Nothing to see here. A friendly tug of war.
You sure you wanna do that?     What would your wife say? That's it. Mooney snatches his lunch back and turns to lecture this little girl.
She'd say nothing, 'cause she's not gonna know about it! Christ, Shel, my old man had eleven heart attacks. Eleven! I have one little infarction and you guys start treating me like an invalid! I'm a grown man! Leave me alone, will you?!
 I was merely referring to your cottage-cheese ass. Mooney sighs and lifts his pizza to his mouth when -- WHAMM! The station doors burst open and two dozen GANG MEMBERS are bum-rushed into the room by a squad of COPS in riot gear. The screaming is deafening.
I hate this place.
 I'm here.
is busy doing ten things at once. Signing release papers. Booking a DRUNK whose wife-beater Tee is drenched in blood, Etc.
Excuse me, officer -- But Mooney ignores him in favor of the three cops that suddenly need arrest sheets signed.
Hey, I've got an emergency here -- Just then, CREWCUT OFFICER shoulders his way through with a cuffed CRACKHEAD TRANNIE in tow. The Trannie's wrists ache.
Loosen these, man, please?! Jus' gimme a chance--
Hey, Moon! Where do you want me to put Whitney Houston?
Christ, I've only got two hands here! Stick him in the can, will ya? Crewcut nods and moves off towards the bathroom.
 Come on, man! I've got some lady on the phone here who says she's been kidnapped!
Nice try, kid, but I got no time for pranks.
Seriously, a lady was murdered!
Which is it, a kidnapping or a murder?
Take the phone and find out moron! A COP snickers somewhere.
Please. . .
Okay.   Give it here. Ryan thrusts the phone at him, happy to get rid of it.
 Oh thank God! You've got to help me. My name's Jessica Martin and I've been kidnapped. This morning five men broke into my home in Brentwood and kidnapped-- Mooney strains to hear.     His eyes go wide and he quickly jots notes on a pad. Mooney's eyes shift as three TWEAKERS, wide eyed and sweating profusely, are led inside by their ARRESTING OFFICERS.
Ah shit. Mooney holds out the phone.
Hurry kid, take this upstairs to Robbery/Homicide and ask for Detective Tomlin.
Where?
Hello?    Officer? Hello?!
Up the stairs, Tomlin! Ryan turns away, and as he returns the cellphone to his ear, he's startled to hear--
 Oh my God...
What? What is it?
Lady, what's going on?! Jessica drops the phone. Has just enough time to shove it behind her before -- SLAM! -- the attic door swings open and two of the masked kidnappers stride in. When they reach her, they stand silently, trying to unnerve her.
Where's your husband?
What?     I don't- The masked leader SLAPS HER SHARPLY across the face! Jessica wants to collapse to the ground, but remains sitting TO KEEP THE PHONE HIDDEN behind her. The Leader bends down and yells right in her face.
Where is he!?
At work!     Why, what do you want--? SLAP!!!   This one's even nastier than the first.
Oh shit... Panicking, Ryan turns and walks, then jogs, then all-out runs for the station stairwell.
The Lead Kidnapper stands ominously over the trembling Jessica -- Oh God! Does he see the phone cord?
Please, he should be at work! That's all I know. The Leader nods, then turns away. Jessica exhales with relief that he didn't spot the phone. But her victory is short-lived as:
You have a little boy, right? Ricky? The Wyman School in Westwood? Jessica gasps like a sledgehammer just hit her in the chest.
Johnny!!
I know.    I'm trying to get help.
My son -- Suddenly, as Ryan reaches the first landing -- STATIC starts breaking up the call.
 Oh my God! What's happening?!
It's just static. I'm running upstairs to the detectives. Hold on, I might lose you for a sec--
 No, don't! Stop. You can't lose me--
 Wait, we're almost there.
 Stop! Johnny, goddamn it, stop!
Well, what the hell am I supposed to do?! Ryan looks at himself, standing on the stairs like an idiot.
Jesus!   I'm almost there! Ryan checks the SIGNAL STRENGTH INDICATOR on the phone. There's only one bar left. Defiantly, Ryan takes a step UP...and the bar DISAPPEARS. He quickly hops BACK DOWN.
Crap! 
You're shitting me.
Johnny, what time is it?! Johnny!
 Who? Oh -- one-twenty.
EMPTY_LINE
Johnny, listen to me. My son's school lets out at 1:45.
Good, then if I get a cop-- Ryan exits the stairwell to find Mooney -- but Mooney's not there anymore! There's some NEW GUY -- and he's SWAMPED!
No. There's not enough time. You have to pick him up before they--
Pick him up? Hell no, lady!     I ain't goin' nowhere else-- Ryan tries to get the NEW GUY's attention, in a dream.
Please please stop standing there! He 's just a little boy!
But I'm in a police station!
Go! Ryan grunts in frustration.
Forties, salt and pepper hair.    He looks to his crew:
Greer snaps the TV off.     Checks his watch and nods grimly.
Go get the kid. Instantly, a hulk of a man  and an arrogant, red- headed prick  stand and exit the house. As Greer stalks away( BOOM DOWN the bar to REVEAL a telephone sitting there, unnoticed by the men -- and on its face, the LINE-IN-USE INDICATOR LIGHT is lit. PUSH IN on the flashing orange light that threatens to give Ryan and Jessica's call away. Closer and closer, until we ENTER the phone and TRAVEL THROUGH THE WIRES to --
Where are you now?!
I just got off the 405.
You've got to go faster, Johnny!
You've gotta chill! You're stressing the crap out of me!  Where the hell is a cop hiding in a speed trap when you need one? Ryan takes a hard right, tires squealing.    Pushing it against his better judgment.
What do these guys want, anyway?
How should I know?!
What do you do?
I'm an obstetrician. They don't want anything from me.
So your husband's like, uber-rich?
What--? No. He's an accountant. I make more money than he does.
Could they've mistaken you for someone else?
No! I don't know.    None of this makes any sense. Jessica starts losing it completely, upsetting Ryan so much that he takes the next corner too fast and -- SKKRRASH! --
And dead ahead is a CONSTRUCTION CREW resurfacing the road!
Oh...SHIT!! Ryan SLAMS on the brakes and SWERVES to avoid hitting a group of workers -- and OBLITERATES THE BRONCO'S PASSENGER SIDE MIRROR against another BARRIER -- Ryan cringes with every muscle! And the mirror ricochets off the ground -- and smashes through the windshield of a recently waxed Acura Legend!
 ...Ain't that a bitch. As the heavily-muscled workers start running to beat the shit out of him, Ryan floors the gas, sending a shower of wet asphalt all over the cursing workers as he peels away, CRASHING through a FINAL BARRIER. More cautiously, Ryan rounds the next corner and --
There's the school. Ryan's right.   Just ahead, we see:
pulls over and hops out,
Okay, I'm here.
How much time do we have? Ryan checks his watch.     It reads:   "1:40 PM".   He enters.
Five minutes. What's your kid's name?
Ricky.
Ricky what?
Martin.
Ricky Martin? You named your kid Ricky Martin?! Why didn't you tattoo "kick me" on his ass while you were at it?
He was named before the singer ever-
Forget it.     What does he look like?
He's eight years old. Blonde hair. Green eyes. Small for his age. He's wearing a light blue shirt and dark blue pants--
They're all wearing blue shirts and pants! Ryan turns down a hallway and we see that he's right.      It's filled with IDENTICALLY-UNIFORMED LITTLE BOYS. As a TIMID BLONDE BOY passes in front of him, Ryan grabs him and wheels him around.
Ricky Martin? The Boy's eyes get huge.     He tries to pull away.
Don't touch me!
No, kid, it's okay!    I didn't mean to--
Help!   Don't touch me!   Don't touch!! Ryan quickly moves on... aware that other ADULTS are now beginning to take notice of him.
Does he have anything else? A jacket? A backpack? What's his lunch box look like?
I don't remember.
You don't remember your own kid's lunch box?!
I don't pack it! Rosario, our housekeeper does! Sometimes Craig, but... Jessica begins to sob, which causes Ryan to panic further.
Ricky Martin, where are you!? None of the Stepford kids respond.
 I wish I could give you more. Now Ryan's running.    He yells into a BATHROOM.
Ricky Martin?
Can I help you, sir? Ryan turns to see a MUSCULAR GYM TEACHER looming there. Clearly, the guy thinks Ryan's peeping into the boys' room.
I'm looking for a little blond boy--  --No, no! Not like that!
Sir, come with me, please! Ryan isn't going anywhere. And that's when the BELL RINGS. Like a nightmare, HUNDREDS OF UNIFORMED LITTLE BOYS come racing out of their classes.
Oh shit...
All hell is breaking loose. The kids ignore him. The huge Gym Teacher races after him. Jessica yells in his ear.
Was that the bell? Was that the bell?!
Yes.    RICKY! RICKY MARTIN!! Ryan wades through the sea of uniforms.
He'11 go to the parents' pick-up spot. Oh God, they're going to get him!
Where do you think you're going? --causing the phone to fly out of Ryan's hand and --crack!-- hit the pavement.
No--! Ryan tugs his arm free and races to the phone.   The LCD display GLASS is cracked into a SPIDERWEB.
 Jessica? You still there?!
Yes? Relieved, Ryan turns and races for the front of the school.
No one's gonna get your kid!    He's not slow, is he?
What--?   No!
Then he won't go anywhere with strangers.
Unless they have our Escalade. Ricky'11 think it's Rosario and hop right in! She's got a point. Ryan picks up the pace and arrives at the pick-up spot. Scans the lot.
What color?
Black!
 Of course it is. PAN AROUND to see what Ryan sees -- three black Cadillac Escalades.
There's three of them.    What's your plate?
4..7..wait, no...3 -- Oh my God, I don't remember!
Like you don't remember the lunch box? Or anything else about your kid--  Oh, man. This is a prank, isn't it?
No!
Bullshit! Oh, you're good lady. Your friends too. Getting me to scream out 'Ricky Martin' at a boys school. Damn, you really nailed me.
No--
No, Johnny, you have to listen to me-- /.' But Ryan's had enough.     He turns to leave --
I'm done being your entertainment for the day. I'm going back to the pier while I still have a chance -- -- and passes right by a blonde-haired, green-eyed, EIGHT- YEAR-OLD BOY carrying a Lord of the Rings lunchbox. Ryan hesitates and is about to stop the kid...but then decides "screw it", and keeps on hoofing. Ryan rounds a corner to leave -- and is confronted by the Gym Teacher and a RENT-A-COP SECURITY GUARD.
Here he is! He's the one that's been stalking the students.
Stalking?!     No, I can explain-- The Rent-a-Cop mumbles into his walkie.
Okay, we got him. We're at the front of the school.  Sir, come with us.
 Hey, HEY RENT-A-DUDE--!!    Hang on a sec! This is a huuuge misunderstanding-- A little RENT-A-COP CAR  pulls up in the driveway below. The Security Guard starts forcibly leading Ryan toward it, but as he gets close--
 Lord of the Rings! I forgot his father bought him a Lord of the Rings lunchbox last week! Ryan's heart stops in his chest. He turns to see the Boy with the Lord or the Rings lunchbox racing down the school steps and up to one of the waiting Escalades.
EMPTY_LINE
The Boy opens the car door...but turns as he hears his name called. For the briefest moment, Ricky and Ryan lock eyes--
Oh shit!    You just see that?! Losing control of Ryan, the Rent-a-Cop calls to his partner in the car.
Roy, some help over here! Below, the Escalade is leaving the driveway.
 Goddamn it, that little kid was just kidnapped!! Do something!!
Roy--! ! The second Rent-a-Cop, hops out of his car and runs over, but as he gets near -- Ryan breaks free!
They chase after him, but Ryan hops over the hood of the idling RENT-A-COP CAR and throws himself into its driver's seat. Rent-a-Cop #1 reaches through the open window and grabs Ryan's collar -- and is dragged twenty feet as Ryan throws the little car in gear and burns away.
What's happening, Ryan?!
Don't worry, I can fix this.
Oh my God. There are three cars between Ryan and the Escalade.
It's okay, I can see them ahead.
Don't lose them! If you follow them back here, you can tell the police where they're holding us!
Okay.
 Do you want me to change the station to something else? Ricky refuses to answer.        Ellis turns around, his fake smile quickly vanishing.
Yeah.   I like Creedence too. He's about to turn the radio volume up when --
Where's Rosario?
I told you, kid, she had a doctor's appointment, so your mother asked us to pick you up. Don't worry, you'll see your mommy in a few minutes. Ricky nods... but we can tell by the look on his face that he's not buying their story one bit.
Ryan SLAMS on his breaks and is forced to crawl along at a ainful 25 m.p.h.. Worse, he has his view of the Escalade glocked by the bus' titanic silver ass.
Johnny!
Damn!     There's this stupid bus-- Ryan jags left and right, catching glimpses around the bus of the Escalade still ahead.
 Come on! But the bus doesn't pull over. Ryan tries flashing the security car's CLEAR BUBBLE LIGHTS on the roof, but who the hell would pull over for that? The bus sure doesn't.
Jesus.'
Can't you go around it? There's an ungodly amount of opposing traffic-- But suddenly there's    a break in the  flow! Seizing the moment, Ryan SLAM-SH   IFTS the rent-a -cop car's uni-cylinder engine into gear and    starts to tear  around the bus -- but has to SWERVE BACK as a    SPEEDING TRASH  TRUCK rounds a bend and almost creams him!
Goddamn it!
What?!    Did you lose him? !
No, I just almost got killed, is all.
Oh thank God!
Thank God?  That's nice. Just then, the bus signals that it's pulling over.
Hey, here we go!
 Anyone following us? Deason checks:
Nan.
What's happening?! Are you okay?!
What?!    Yo u lost--
No, No!    just give me a second-- As Jessica goes off, Ryan tosses the phone down and focuses on finding the Escalade. He floors the rent-a-cop car, engine CLATTERING, to the intersection. Ryan franticly searches in every direction, but the Escalade is nowhere to be seen. He floors it.
Jesus!    Where the hell did they go? Dreading talking to Jessica, Ryan slowly picks up the receiver.
Jessica, I--
You let them get away. Ryan wants to snap at her, but guilt crushes it right out of him. He knows she's right.
j    INT. 15TH PRECINCT - LOCKER ROOM - DAY                           45 Mooney changes out of his blues, his ears glued to THREE COPS in the corner, boasting about an arrest.
-- so of course everyone's playing dumb to what kind of drugs he's on. The cops start to snicker; they've all heard that one before.
So I start searching the place. I'm about to open a closet door when a kid with a Mac 10 jumps out of the bathroom. He shoots. Misses me and hits one of the E.M.T's. Fires again, but the gun jams and BAM! Blows half his face off. Had enough black tar heroin in the closet to resurface the 405. Mooney tries to join in on the conversation.
It must've been around '84, when... The Cops turn around, while grabbing their stuff.
Sorry Moon, we're late for a briefing. Mooney waves them on, but looks disappointed for not being able to join in.
Hey Tomlin.
Taking off?
 My anniversary. You know, duty calls; pricey dinner and then some crap-ass play.  Hey, I sent some college kid down to see you this morning. Had some rap about a kidnapping --
I haven't seen anyone, but I'll ask around. Kidnapping, huh?
I thought it was a prank at first, but the kid was so worked up--
Well, don't you get worked up.  If the kid comes back, page me, and I'll be sure to see him.
 Yeah. Okay, Jack. Thanks. And as Tomlin walks off --
Look, Johnny, you've got to go back to the cops--
Are you high?! I just jacked a car!
Goddamn it, stop thinking about just yourself! You can explain everything to them later!
What now? Ryan pulls the phone away from his ear and checks it out.
Great!   Now the battery's dying.
Don't you have a charger?
It's in my car!      Hold on. SFX:   BEEP-BEEP!    The battery indicator has lost another bar. Ryan fumbles around in the armrest. Finds nothing. Opens the glovebox and -- a snub-nosed .38 SPECIAL tumbles out.
Jesus -- !
What's going on? Did you find one?
 Not exactly... SFX:   BEEP-BEEP!!     Jessica starts growing afraid.
Johnny, don't lose me!
Well what the hell do you expect me to do?! Just then, Ryan rounds a corner -- and sees traffic GRIDLOCKED to a halt ahead. He tries to maneuver around it, but is almost immediately boxed in.
Johnny--!
I know, Jessica! The phone starts a STEADY BEEPING now, dying imminent. And traffic isn't going anywhere. Ryan looks around desperately. Nothing. No emergency lane. No shoulder. Just a long drop down a HILL to a strip mall below-- STRIP MALL?! Ryan scans it and does a double-take on one of the store's signs: "VERIZON WIRELESS". Traffic inches forward. Now he sees an OFF-RAMP a quarter- mile ahead -- but at this rate, it'll take forever to make it there.
Ryan's got to do something.      Now.
You know that money you promised me?
Yes.
I'm giving myself a raise.
Ryan lets out a frightened yell as he SAILS through the clear blue sky.
THUMP! The Rent-a-Cop car touches down on a steep downslope. Ryan struggles to control the bucking automobile, miraculously avoiding the minefield of ROCKS and TREE STUMPS. He needs both hands for the job and holds the phone by its antenna in his teeth. There's so much noise, the only thing Jessica could possibly hear is a CACOPHONY OF NOISE and Ryan HYPERVENTILATING.
What's going on?!
 mmmrrmph mrm mrmph! Ryan is bounced around like a corn kernel in a popper until the car hits a jutting rock and -- WHOOOOM! -- goes up on two wheels. It looks like it's going to roll but gravity brings
it back down -- SLAMM! -- so hard that the phone goes flying across the car!
Shit! Ryan scrabbles for the phone -- but gives it up when he bounces over a rise and sees A BILLBOARD DEAD AHEAD!
Ryan whips the wheel and navigates the little car between the billboard's concrete posts, but -- WHAM! -- obliterates the rent-a-cop's BUBBLE LIGHTS on the billboard's lower edge. Somehow, Ryan muscles the bucking econocar safely down the rest of the hill and into the strip mall parking lot, where it SKIDS OUT.
 Jessica?! Can you hear me?!
I'm here! Ryan hops out and races inside--
Panicking, Ryan pushes his way to the front of the counter --
Hey, what do you think you're doing? There's a line! -- to the OVERLY-PERKY SALESMAN helping someone else.
..and if you get the new Nokia 9200, you can switch out faceplates to match your mood! And we have a special today on tiger stripes... Are you feeling fierce? The salesman makes a playful paw swipe with his hand.
Oh, how fun!
Excuse me--
I'm sorry, sir, I'm with a customer now.
 But if you take a number, someone will be with you shortly. Ryan glances at the dispenser. A BIG YELLOW SMILEY FACE with tickets ejected from the mouth. The next ticket it offers is "#97"...and the Now-Serving Display on the wall reads "#71".
Just then, a BUSY SALESWOMAN walks by.     Ryan grabs her.
Hey! Hey!      I've got an emergency here --
Sorry, I'm on break--
Damn it, will you listen to me?! I've got a life and death call on this phone and my battery's dying! Do you have a charger?
Sure.  Take a number and one of the sales associates will grab you one when your turn comes up.
Bu t-- !
Ryan breaks out in a cold sweat. Can't catch his breath. As a SALESWOMAN rushes by, Ryan reaches for her.
Help, I --
Take a number. The room starts spinning around him. It's clear no one's going to help him. Like the clap of doom, the NOW-SERVING DISPLAY on the wall flips happily to "#72"
Aw, screw this... -- Ryan pulls the rent-a-cop's big .38 SPECIAL from his pocket and BLOWS THE SMILEY FACE DISPENSER TO DUST!
Oh look! Now serving thirty eight special! 
Hi, honey. Yeah, I'm gonna be a few minutes late... And as Mooney closes the door and starts up the engine--
 Jessica? Damn, where are you?  I called earlier and... Jess, I'm in serious trouble. I can't explain right now, but we're all in danger. Please, just grab Ricky and meet me in left field. PAN UP to an ATTRACTIVE WOMAN listening to the machine.
Whew!   That was so no bueno!
You found a charger?
Among other things... Ryan glances at piles of phone gear he's appropriated from Verizon. EARBUD MIKES. MANUALS. RECEPTION BOOSTERS.
Thank you for doing all this, Johnny.
Yeah, look, about that...  My-name isn't really Johnny Fountain.
Good, it sounded like a porn star name.  It's okay. I know. You don't have to tell me --
It's Ryan. Ryan Ackerman. I'm a bar-back. I'm twenty-two, and just a little freaked out right now. Jessica is moved with emotion by his honesty.
Thank you, Ryan. But before they can say any more, suddenly--
Do you want to die here? Jessica drains white -- Does he see the phone?!
Oh shit!
N-no... Jessica scoots away, trying to draw Greer's eyes in another direction from the phone that lies OUT IN THE OPEN.
...but I am going to, aren't I?
Up to you. Your husband left a message asking you to meet him in left field. Where's that?
What?   I don't understand--? Greer winds up and BAM! Hits Jessica in the stomach, knocking the wind out of her and causing her to fall to the ground.
--A base ball field !? Wh ich o ne does he mean?!
 I... I don't know what you want me to say. I swear--
Shut up!!! Which field?! He wouldn't leave a message that didn't make sense to you! Greer tightens his fist and is about to hit Jessica again--
Wait! The bleachers behind left field at Dodger Stadium! That's where we first met.
Please! Believe me. That has to be where he means. I swear to God. Then he stands, looking away for just a moment -- but long enough for Jessica to NUDGE the phone back behind the beam!
Working in my profession as long as I have, you begin to recognize the truth when you hear it. Jessica, trembling, hangs on Greer's every word.
 Go to the window, Jessica. There's something I want you to see. Relieved at hiding the phone, Jessica gets up and moves to the attic window -- and GASPS.
Ricky!
Shoot hoops.
I..   I don't feel like it.
 Shoot. Nervously, Ricky begins to bounce the ball.
You have three seconds to tell me where he really is or you're going to a funeral.
Oh Jesus!    Oh Jesus!!
One.. .
Please!     Please, believe me! Ricky plays innocently -- while Hodges now COCKS his pistol.
Two. Frantic, Jessica locks eyes with Hodges, silently pleading for him not to do this. Hodges stares back with glacial ice.
 Please, he's just a child!
 Goddamn it, listen to her!     She doesn't know!!
No...no.'    I swear that's all I know! Greer gives a sigh of disbelief --
Thre--
OKAY! ... okay...  LAX Airport! There's a bar called Left Field. That's where we met. We were in college on our way to Mardi-gras.
Please God, I swear that's the truth. Don't kill my son!
 Most people don't get past two. Greer signals, and:
Okay, kid.     Let's go.
You won't get away with this. When I didn't show up at the hospital, someone must have called the police--
The police are the last people on earth I'm worried about... Greer pulls a Police Scanner out of his jacket and shows it to Jessica.
We get one hit on the scanner about you, we'll be picking out family plots, comprende? Suddenly, a HUMMER, with the BASS THUMPING at ear-shattering decibels, pulls alongside Ryan's car. DMX.
Do you honestly expect me to believe we're going to walk away from this alive? But Greer isn't listening to her. He strides back into the room, listening to the noise under her voice.
 Shut up.
How can I SHUT UP? You threaten to kill my child and you expect me to act like a MUTE?! If this -- Suddenly, it hits Ryan like a punch to the face.     And he scrambles, trying to cover the phone.
Oh shit!   Where's mute?!
...your child, then--
x - >
Well?
The Left Field sports bar at LAX.
Are you positive? Greer ignores him.    Then turns to Deason.
Tell Hodges we move in ten. Deason nods and moves off.
Jessica...? Answer me, goddamn it I Soon, his voice pierces the suffocating gloom around her and she crawls desperately over to it.
I'm here.
You all right?!     I thought they--
I'm okay.
What are you doing?    Why'd you lie to them?
 Do you think I like gambling with my son's life?
I can't tell. You seem pretty good at it --
Don't you see, Ryan? Once they get Craig, we're all gonna die.
You can't know that for sure.
Be realistic. Does letting us live benefit them in any way? No! The only chance he's got is if you can get to the airport and find him before they do.
Wait, wait--!
Ryan, please! There's no time! Just get to the airport--
It's suicide. They'll kill me!
They won't! You're invisible to them! They don't know who you are. They don't know anything about you. Please! You've got to try!
Lady, I've jacked two cars, been accused of being a child molester, obliterated a car dealership, and busted three caps in a Verizon store. -- Don't tell me I'm not trying! Jessica tries another tack.
Look, I have no right to ask you this Ryan, but you re my family's only chance...and I am asking. Something in the way she says that last sentence, a mixture of strength and vulnerability, gets through to Ryan. And against his own will, he's swayed.
 I'll get the phone to your husband, but that's gotta be it, okay?!
Ms. Martin?
Yes?
Jessica Kate Martin? The Woman nods. Mooney is plainly disillusioned by the woman. Maybe his hunch was wrong...
Cam I help you, Officer...? She scans Mooney's badge.
Mooney.  No. No, I guess not. Must've been a prank. I m sorry to have b9thered you, Ms. Martin. Have a nice day. The Woman smiles and nods, and Mooney walks off. When he gets to his car, he CRUMPLES the paper with Jessica's name and address, and shakes his head, chuckling at himself. As Mooney drives off--
It's Bayback. Remember the Fusco brothers? Silence.
Well, I've got an itch that needs scatching.
We're in the middle of a shit storm, and I need you to put a leash put on an officer.
An Officer Mooney from your division. Know him? Now, we start PULLING BACK, revealing the man's features.
I had to do a B & E and he came snooping around the house looking for the owner.
That I was her, of course. Continue PULLING BACK.   We can almost recognize him now...
I think so. He said he thought someone was pulling a prank on him.
And no bullshit. Right now you're entire department's hot, so if I'm gonna get in the tub, I've got to know how deep it is.
Where are you now?!
I'll be at the airport in twenty minu --
Twenty minutes! Oh my God, Ryan, you've got to drive faster! Please--
 Jessica, this car has a sewing machine for an engine! I can't go any faster!
Sorry.   I just...
For Ryan, the silence is deafening. Despite his frantic driving, he feels her pain. And hates being unable to help.
Jessica... ? There's an emotional beat, then--
Do you think God will forgive me?
What do you mean--?
For what I've done...   For giving up Craig... Ryan is moved by the emotion in her voice.
Jessica, they have your kid. You had no choice.
I don't know. I don't know...
1 know. I heard what they were doing to you over there. You held out for as long as you could.
 My son and I are going to die here, Ryan. They already have us. But maybe I could've saved Craig... The truth of this has a profound effect on Ryan. And just when Jessica is about to lose herself to despair -- Ryan finds a resolve within himself even he didn't know he had.
Jessica, listen to me. I promise you, I'm not going to let that happen. I could care less about your money. I'm risking my life cause I know I'm gonna get you and your family out of this. You hear what I'm sayin'?
But the moment is suddenly cut short as a STATICKY VOICE start bleeding into their phone call -- some BRITISH ASSHOLE having his own phone call.
-- Yeah, the show just bought me a Cadillac XLR convertible. No, you can't ride in it. Not until you do something with that road kill you call hair. And what's with your makeup? Kabuki Theatre is not in style --
 Jessica? Are you still there?
Hey, hey?!    This is a private call! Jessica's voice starts fading as the CROSSTALK gets worse.
 I'm..ere, but y...reaking up!
Get off my line! Are you there? Mom? I
Listen dude, this woman's in serious --
--That's not my problem, lady. Lady?! Suddenly, STATIC starts drowning out Ryan's side of the call.
 Jessica, don't hang up! You hear me?! Whatever happens --
Look woman, tell your kidnapping story to someone who gives a shit. Ryan can't hear Jessica's side of the conversation; only the British Asshole's, which comes in loud and clear.
Jessica?!     Jessica?! As Ryan goes mental, a CAR PASSES HIM on the opp9site side of the road -- a new Cadillac XLR convertible! Inside is an appropriately asshole-ish looking guy. He could only be the British Asshole.
Gotcha. Ryan pulls a HARROWING 180 DEGREE TURN, barely missing an oncoming car by inches. He RACES up to the Cadillac, which has a VANITY PLATE that reads, "IDOL MKR." Ryan looks through the window at --
 Murdered your housekeeper? Don't bullshit me; I work in the Industry that invented it you stupid COW! Ryan sees Simon Cowell MOUTH THE WORDS "STUPID COW" in synch with the conversation. BINGO! Ryan floors the Rent-a-cop car ahead of the Cadillac and PULLS A 90 DEGREE turn at an intersection; cutting Cowell off! SCREEEECH! Cowell, trying to avoid a collision, SLAMS on the brakes, causing the Cadillac to SKID twenty feet. Ryan jumps out of the rent-a-cop car he's left in the middle or the intersection and runs over to the Cadillac, banging on the window with the .38 Special. Cowell practically jumps out of his skin at the sight of the gun and the kid with the crazy look in his eyes.
Give me that phone... or I shoot your car! Cowell is prepared to comply -- but suddenly behind them--
Ain't that a bitch! Ryan turns back to Simon Cowell.
Out of the car! Now! Cowell all but dives out.
Where's your phone?!
It's on speaker! Ryan turns to the car.    Calls out.
Jessica?
Ryan?!    I'm here! Her voice says she can't believe her ears. Relieved, Ryan jumps in the Cadillac XLR and tosses his phone on the passenger seat, next to a LAPTOP computer. Guns the engine and STOMPS the gas. As he passes the ruins of his rent-a-cop car, he slows just enough to open the Cadillac's door and snatch up his bag of Verizon goodies laying on the pavement -- then peels away. Practically frothing at the mouth, Simon Cowell chases after on foot, cursing as his beautiful new Cadillac disappears in the distance --
Your career's over!    YOU HEAR ME?!
 I thought they... I thought I was--
You're okay. It's okay now.
I'm here... Oh shit! SCREEEECH! Ryan steps on the brakes, seeing something ahead. WHIP PAN AROUND to see what Ryan's staring at. Just ahead, JESSICA'S ESCALADE is pulling up to the curb.
What?
Your car's here. Ryan pulls along side the red curb and watches as four tough- looking men exit the vehicle. We recognize them as Greer, Deason, Ellis and Hodges.
Hurry, Ryan! Just find Craig! Ryan hops out -- but stops when the car CALLS OUT TO HIM.
Wait, Ryan! What about me--?! Ryan searches the car and finds the HANDSET in the armrest. As he grabs it and races after Greer into the airport, a Traffic Cop comes up to the car.
Oops. Excuse me. Pardon me. My grandmother needs her walker... Soon, he makes his way to the front, right behind Greer and BUMPS into him. As he does, NOTICE -- ECU of Ryan slyly slipping the rent-a-cop's tiny .38 Special into Greer's heavy motorcycle jacket. Greer turns, glaring -- But no one's there. Greer looks around, and there's a heart-stopping moment that we're afraid he's going to notice Ryan, who now stands innocently the next line over-- --but Greer's eyes pass right over him as he scans the crowd. Ryan breathes a sigh of relief as Greer finally turns away to walk through the metal detector and...
...sets off the alarm.
Excuse me, sir. Would you mind emptying your pockets over here? Confused, Greer does. He lays his wallet on the table, then his keys... Then looks baffled as he pulls out -- the GUN 1
Code red!     Code red! The response she gets is stunning. SECURITY GUARDS jump out of the woodwork with guns drawn. ALARMS go off. SECURITY GATES start coming down. Travelers start SCREAMING and
 Wait, this is a mistake--
As one, the entire security force POUNCES on Greer and Ellis, TACKLING them to the ground and IMMOBILIZING their limbs.
"Left Field" is in Terminal C.
Listen to me! They're clearing the terminal. Before your husband passes me, what does he look like?
He's thirty-eight. Six feet.     Trim build. Thinning hair...
 That's not enough! What's he wearing?
I don't know! We have completely different schedules. I was fast aslee p--  -- A suit... He wears glasses, thick rims, like Buddy Holly or-- Bingo! The Buddy Holly glasses is what did it. Ryan sees a man in the distance hurrying in his direction -- CRAIG.
Found him!
Excuse me, sir-- Ryan turns and finds a NATIONAL GUARDSMAN right behind him.
You can't be here now. You have to leave the area.
But --
Now, sir. And as Ryan is marched away he sees--
-- if you'd just listen to me! I can explain! Someone reach into my coat pocket! Goddamn it, reach into my pocket!
A YOUNG GUARDSMAN does -- and in a big reveal, we see that he WITHDRAWS A BADGE. A Los Angeles policeman's badge... Ryan's jaw drops.      He can't believe it -- they're cops?!
Hey, this one's on the job.
Holy shit, Jessica, these guys are cops!
What?! The Guardsman's SUPERIOR OFFICER examines it.      Is it real?
Run it. (the Guardsman runs off; turns back to Greer) Is that your gun?
 --yes. Yes. It's my piece.
Well, you're supposed to declare it.
I know. We just got focused on a rabbit we're here to nab. Just then, the Young Guardsman returns.
He's clean. Badge matches his I.D.
 Unhook 'em. Stand down security.
 Hey, can I go now? Can I go?! The Guard nods, and Ryan takes off like a shot, racing back towards the bar. Ryan spots Craig Martin outside the Left Field sports bar. Ryan grabs him by the elbow and starts hustling him through the concourse.
Hey, what the hell?!    Get your hands off m--!!
Shut up and keep walking. If they see us they'll kill us both.
What--?
Your wife sent me.
She did?   But how--?
Would you hurry your ass?! You need to hide. They're here, and they're looking for you. They already have your family. Craig looks at him, growing terrified.
In here!
I don't understand--
It's okay. She'll explain it to you.  Okay, Jessica, I'm handing you over now.
 Ryan, you've done so much.     I don't know how to repay you... An awkward, emotional pause falls between them.
Forget about the cash. Just get you and y9ur son home safely and we'll call it even.
I will.   I promise.
I know you will. RYAN hands the cellphone over to Craig.
I'm gonna be outside this door. Don't come out unless I get you. Got it?
 Okay. Ryan walks out the restroom door as Craig puts the phone to his ear. He sighs with relief -- it's finally over.
 Nice move. What the hell you bring a gun for?
I didn't.
 What do you mean?
Just keep your eyes open! Something weird is going on. Greer stares daggers at everyone he passes. Ellis Io9ks around before glancing down at a PHOTO COPY of a California driver's license.
This isn't my wife.
My wife's name is Patty. I'm not Craig. I'm Paul. Paul Boyd. In utter disbelief, Ryan turns back toward the gate -- and sees Greer, Ellis, Hodges and Deason, cornering another MAN. Tall. Lean. Thinning hair. And wearing Buddy Holly glasses.    The real CRAIG MARTIN.
Shit!
Make a scene and you'll never see your family again. Now who's here with you? Craig's eyes swell with fear.
Who, what?... No one!   Nobody!
Answer me! Greer looks around the crowded airport.
I'll forget I saw anything, just leave them alone! Whatever.    Greer manhandles Craig toward the exit.
For your family's sake, you better not have done anything stupid. RYAN snatches the phone from the bogus Craig Martin -- and hauls ass through a sea of travelers, trying to catch up to --
Has more difficulty. Gets STALLED and SWEPT AWAY in the crowd long enough for the kidnappers to make it outside--
You goddamn animals better not have hu rt -- Greer surprises him with a vicious ELBOW to the face.
Animals? Ellis whips a burlap hood over Craig's head and they drive off just as--
Yes. He said you looked distracted when you left. He wants you to relax, Bob. He said they found that kid you were looking for and that you were right, it was all a prank. Nothing to worry about.
Yeah, I know. She pulls him back down for another kiss.
What am I gonna do with you?
You're gonna dance with me all night long, until we're too pooped to pop... Well almost. A giggle.    They kiss.
You'll never change.
Yes I will, after I shower. They both share a laugh.
Lame ass.   Come on. She pushes herself down the hallway and he follows.
Get out! As Craig reaches blindly for a door handle, Ellis opens the door and shoves him out onto the driveway. Greer yanks him up by his collar.
Goddamn it, what the hell are you people going to--
Craig? Craig stops dead, hearing the voice. Scans the cobweb-filled room, seeing nothing -- then from the depths of the shadows, Jessica materializes looking haunted and lifeless as a ghost.
Jessica? Jessica races for the safety of Craig's arms, but just as she's about to be embraced, Greer steps forward and YANKS Jessica back by her hair. She squeals in pain.
No, don't hurt him! Jessica struggles and, with an annoyed shove, Greer sends her spilling into Craig. She hugs tightly against him. When Craig gets his wind back, he comes to his knees and manages to croak out--
Ricky...? Jessica nods gravely. He's here, too. Craig looks at his wife's face, bruised and hurt, and tears rise in his eyes.
Oh, God, Jess... What have they done to you? But Jessica won't let this moment be about pity.
Who are they, Craig? Craig doesn't know what to say.
Tell them, Craig. Tell them they have the wrong family. Tell them they've made a mistake-- But something in his eyes disagrees.
What?!      What is it?
This isn't a mistake, Jess. And that's all it takes for Jessica's world to shatter. GREEK emerges from the shadows, startling them, and backhands Craig's jaw with the butt of his gun.
Where is the disc now? Blood trickles from the corner of Craig's mouth.
You have to promise. If I give it to you... you'll let my family go.
I'll tell you what, you tell me where it is--  --and I won't blow her brains all over you right now. Greer traces the barrel of the gun down Jessica's cheek. Craig looks utterly helpless.
Your call Craig. It's an eighty-five ''cent bullet to me.
Okay. Enough, you win.      But if anything-
 Just shut up and talk.
I dropped it down the mail chute at work. It's gotta be in the mailroom.
 You hid it downtown?
Change of plans.      I need to get to downtown fast.
Get up.     We're going.
How will I know she's okay?
 Move! When he gets near the door, Jessica is overcome with emotion and races to her husband.
Wait!   WAIT!! She brushes past Hodges and hugs on tight to her husband, tears flowing from her eyes. Hodges goes to pull them apart, but Greer stops him.        He knows this is going to be their last time together.
I love you. Craig squeezes the good years of their marriage into a strong, loving embrace. Jessica hugs him closer. Leans into his ear to seemingly whisper her love in return -- but what she actually whispers takes Craig by surprise.
 Pretend I'm telling you that I love you. There's an open phone line in here. You'll have help at the office, but if you give these men what they want, we're dead. Jessica kisses her husband on the lips and withdraws, leaving Craig with an utterly confused expression on his face. But before his look can betray him--
Let's go. --Greer and Hodges move forward, ushering Craig out of the room. When the door locks behind them, Jessica once again rushes to the phone.
Ryan?! They're going to Fegan Securities, 4th and Figuroa.
I'm already on my-- Suddenly, the cab rounds a bend -- and grinds to a halt from backed up traffic!
You've gotta be kidding me!  Can't you back it up? The cabbie tries, but is hopelessly locked in by cars pulling up behind him. Shrugs. About a hundred yards up the road, Ryan sees the 4th Street/Figuroa Exit. He's so close...
Aw, screw this! Ryan throws some bills at the driver, hops out the passenger side and starts RUNNING.
Wait, we ----ve to think! What ----re we going to do?
I have an idea... Ryan fights his way through the tourists to the elevator bay. Quickly scans the DIRECTORY. Among the long list of CPAs, there's a MAILROOM on the 3rd floor.
In five minutes, I'll need you to give me a hand.
Whenever you're ready, hon. Still wearing his holster, he shifts uncomfortably on the bed as he watches the news.
...and authorities are now asking your help in identifying this man-- Mooney jolts upright as they display A FUZZY PHOTO OF RYAN from the Verizon surveillance cameras.
-- believed to be responsible for today's bizarre string of crimes, most notably the theft of an $80,000 Cadillac at gunpoint.
What..? Mooney watches as they continue to detail Ryan's "wild crime spree", but gets the bigger picture, realizing that every event --the Verizon store; searching for the Martin kid;
stealing the Cadillac -- centers around the cellphone call Ryan tried to tell him about this morning. Detective gears turning, Mooney reaches for the phone on the bedside table. Dials 411.
Thank you for using Pacbell. This is Claire, how may I help you?
I need the phone number for a residence. Jessica Martin in Brentwood.
That number is  555-8364.    For an extra seventy five cents- Mooney hangs up, dials the number. The phone rings and rings. Eventually, an answering machine picks up.
Hi, you've reached the hom  e of Craig and Jessica Martin.   We can't get to the phone right now  , but if you leave your name and a   message-- Mooney listens intently -- and is troubled.
 The woman at the house didn't have an accent. Marilyn smiles, realizing he's really talking to himself. Mooney hangs up, thoughts racing. He reaches behind him, and without looking he grabs his wallet and keys. He then walks over to Marilyn and kisses the top of her head. She knows him, and knows something's up.
I'm sorry honey( but I have to check on something real quick.
You've got to be kidding-
Delay the reservation if you have to; I'll be back in twenty minutes. And Mooney's gone...
Twenty minutes my foot.
 Keep your eyes open.
 Anything I can help you with Mr. Martin?
Hey, Benny. This might sound ridiculous, but I dropped a DVD mailer into the chute this morning and I forgot to put down an address.
Happens all the time. Let me see what's back there. Gimme a sec'. The Supervisor disappears into the back room. Greer and Hodges take a seat only a few feet away from Ryan. The moment is uncomfortable...and gets infinitely worse as--
Me?
You waiting for a package? Now everyone's looking at Ryan.     Including Greer.
 Sure, uh... I'm supposed to pick something up for Mr. Fountain over at the Bonaventure.
From what department?
I'm not sure... They said it was a contract, though, I know that, so what would that be, Legal?
What's the tracking number?
 Uh... Right. Tracking number. It's looking grim.   Thankfully, the Supervisor reappears.
Mr. Martin? I found a number of things that could be what you're looking for. Mind coming back to take a look? Hodges shoots Craig a look, "go".
Sure. The Supervisor leads Hodges and Craig away to the back room. Unfortunately, Greer stays behind.
 I might... Maybe it's on the clipboard on my bike? Ryan watches Greer out of the corner of his eye as Hodges and Craig disappear inside the vault.
I, uh, may need to call somebody.
Help yourself. HODGES cautiously watches Craig shuffle through the mailers, opening two or three before finding -- he turns one upside down -- and a DVD case slides out! A quick glance at the label, "ADT Digital Surveillance'. 5/19/05 06:00 - 07:00" confirms it's the disc.
This is it. Hodges seems uncomfortable with the Supervisor hovering over his shoulder.
Let's go.
You believe this? Everyone's got their head up their ass over there. The Mail Clerk ignores him almost as much as Greer wants to. Greer opens his cellphone to make a call, but when the signal is no good, he wanders outside the mailroom toward the window at the end of the hall.
 Sir? You think you could just go outside and get your clipboard? Just then, Hodges and Craig come marching out of the vault.
Sir? Ryan glances at Greer, momentarily distracted on the phone. At Hodges, almost out of the bank. As he and Craig near the door --
Sir!?
 Screw the package. Ryan stands and, unable to find anything better, snatches a metal HAND TRUCK sitting by the door, and as Hodges walks by--
Craig does.   But Ryan grabs him and moves, racing out of the bank.
-- just as the Guard comes running out. His gun was fixed on Ryan, but now that he sees Greer with a piece, he trains his gun on him instead.
EMPTY_LINE
BANG! -- Greer fires. Craig, SHOT IN THE BACK, slams against Ryan with the impact. They fall half-in/half-out of the stairwell. Craig weakly shoves the DVD into Ryan's hands.
..run... But Ryan is overwhelmed.       His legs feel like a thousand pounds of jelly.
..ruuuUUUUNNNNNN!! As Craig slumps to the ground, Ryan stares in shock -- but when Greer starts sending a hail of bullets toward them, he DIVES into:
Damn! --he turns around and starts RUNNING UP instead.
The kid!!
No shit.
 This way! The other Guards follow...but Greer isn't convinced.       On a hunch, he turns and continues running UP also. Peeking over the edge from the floor above--
Sees Greer and Hodges coming.     Big-ass guns out and ready. Shit.' THE ALARM BELLS SCREAM.     PEOPLE start filling the stairwell on every floor. Forcing his body to its very limits, Ryan bolts up the stairs until he sees the ROOF EXIT on the next floor up. He shoves open the nearest door and continues running up to the roof. He slips out and silently closes the door behind him just as--
Ryan quickly shoves a 2"x4" under the doorknob to jam it. Heart pounding, he races to the building's edge and looks down. Nothing but a straight drop 60 feet down. Footsteps are approaching! POUNDING on the door! Ryan darts behind a tarp-covered mass of supplies just as --
 Here. Cop-instincts crackling, Greer stands on one side of the tarp- covered stockpile and waits for Hodges to secure the other. This is it; they signal go at each other and spring around -- But Ryan's nowhere to be found!
Dammit! No, wait! Greer turns and sees a LARGE ALUMINUM CHUTE that leads from the roof and elbows down toward a DUMPSTER on ground level.
Ryan... ? Ryan, please answer me I But Ryan just sits there.    Afraid to move.     Terrified to discuss Craig.
Straining to hear Greer, it's impossible not to hear:
You have to talk to me! Ryan, please you have to talk to me--.' The sweat from his hands causes the tiniest SLIP -- and as he catches himself, there is a soft metallic BOOOONG from the stressed metal. Unable to ignore her pleas any longer, Ryan carefully pulls the cellphone from his pocket and presses it to his ear. Desperate to console her, Ryan -- BANG!! The TARPAPER ROLL flies down the chute. Ryan looks up to see it angrily launching itself right at him! He has to let go of the walls to avoid being hit.      He presses himself to one side but -- WHAM!! The bloodthirsty roll bashes his wrist -- and he DROPS
Ryan?!    OH MY GOD, RYAN?!   RYAN--?!
WHIP PAN DOWN to what Deason sees: The red light is on one of the house phones. The LINE-IN-USE INDICATOR. And it's lit. Shaking like a bear pissing pineapples, Deason rages away toward the attic...
Don't hurt me, and I'll do anything... Anything.. . There is a promise in what Jessica offers that Deason responds to. His fist FLASHES toward her throat, making her flinch. But rather than hitting her, he wraps his meaty fingers around her throat, almost daring her to stop him. Jessica trembles, but that is all, and just as Deason begins to enjoy his work, Jessica JABS at his face, but he predicted as much and easily moves to deflect it -- SNICKK! -- she flicks her wrist up and SLICES the underside of his upper arm. Deason flinches a little bit, like a bee sting, then laughs as he notices the tiny SHARD in her hand--
 Oooh. --but that's when he HEARS it. A DRIPPING SOUND. Deason looks down at his arm and is confused to see his entire shirt sleeve SOAKED IN BLOOD. It literally pours from his arm onto the floor like a river. Deason drains white; dizzy.      He looks at Jessica, confused.
Brachial artery. Pumps up to 30 liters of blood per minute...and there's only five liters in the human body. Three seconds later, Deason crumbles...and Jessica leaves the attic.
The first one he gets lucky with, but the second NAILS HIM before bouncing furiously away and Ryan loses his grip completely and slides out of control.
 The kid's outside, headed toward the front of the building--
-Gotta go, boss. The Guard's dead. Hodges waits by the rooftop door, looking concerned as COPS spill out around him onto the roof.
Who the hell's shooting up here? Greer points to Ryan bolting around the corner.
Sonofabitch shot the poor bastard right in front of us!
at the secluded premises she's on confirms that screaming would do no good. She's on her own. When she reaches the guest house, she's shocked to find a HUGE LOCK on the front door. Frantic, she makes her way around the structure to a BIG BAY WINDOW. Though it's protected by SECURITY BARS, she can see Ricky through the glass. Jessica pounds on the glass, and Ricky turns.    When her son sees her, he races to the bars.
Mom!
Baby!   Are you okay?!
I can't get out! Jessica looks around for something to bend the bars with. There's nothing.
 Hello? L.A.P.D. Anybody home? No answer.    Drawing his gun, Mooney stalks carefully into--
Drop your gun, now.   I got you. Now we see him. Still down in the entryway, behind some cover, gun aimed and steady.
I said drop it.' Bayback relaxes -- then WHIRLS around, disappearing down the hall! Mooney curses and quietly jogs up the stairs, following her into--
Damn it!   DAMN IT!! Angry, the adrenaline drowning out the pain, Mooney turns to the kidnapper laying in the hall, bleeding out. Kicks her gun away and kneels. But for the first time, Bayback isn't tough.   Just scared.
..a-ambulance...
Tell me where Jessica Martin is or you bleed to death right here.
..p-please..call.. I.. I'm a-- Fuck this, Mooney kicks her ribs.
...I'm a cop... Bayback squeezes her eyes shut against a wave of pain -- and DIES. Mooney stares at her. What did she say? Starts patting her down. And that's when he finds her BADGE.     L.A.P.D.   23rd Precinct. She is a cop.
Oh shit... Mooney grits his teeth against a fresh wave of pain and picks up the phone, dials 911.
Request emergency back up and medical units! Officers down at-
Ho - shit! Ryan bolts to the nearest BUS STOP just as a BLUE LINE BUS pulls up.
Faster Mom! And just then--
 Get down! Get down! And Jessica DUCKS OUT OF VIEW just as the--
These are the best pictures you could get of him?!
He was wearing a visor. Greer glares at him -- no shit -- and throws the pictures .
Useless! The car parks and Greer storms out, followed by Ellis and Hodges. They head for the house, and the moment they enter -- Jessica reappears. But now she's STARING at something. The Escalade.
 Baby, listen to me. I want you to get away from this window. I want you to go to the other side of the room as far away from the door as you can --
No, don't leave me!     Don't leave me!! The terror in his voice breaks Jessica's heart.
Honey, I'm getting you out of there!
Where are you going?!
I'm only gonna be gone a second, and then we're gonna go home, but you have to do this first. It's gonna be loud, but don't be scared, okay? Now go find somewhere safe like I told you.
You're lucky. Shot went clean through. A few inches either way... Mooney watches other PARAMEDICS carry sheet-covered corpses into awaiting ambulances. Flashbulbs POP from inside. A sedan pulls up and Mooney's relieved to see Tomlin get out.
What the hell, Moon? It's all over the radio.
Jack, she didn't identify herself.
What are you saying?
I shot a cop!  Dana Bayback. From the 23rd.     She was one of the kidnappers. Tomlin looks stunned by the revelation.
Let me call the tw9~three. See what the hell's going on. Tomlin pulls out a cellphone.
I hate to think more cops are involved, but--
Did she say anything about the Martin woman?
...Never got the chance. Detective Tomlin frowns.
Just give me my goddamned car!
Don't take that tone of voice with me, sir. I've already told you, we do not release vehicles until all impound fees are paid. In the E.G., NOTICE Ryan skulking closer, behind the GONZALEZ
But I didn't cause it to get impounded! Can't you understand that?! It was stolen from me!
Sir, do you want the car back or not? Noticing Cowell standing at the window, Ryan presses further into the shadows, not wanting to be noticed.
Yes!     But I'm not paying for it! The Cashier signals a GRUNGY YARD WORKER on the other side of the fence.
Nevermind, Howie. Take 'er back. Howie nods, and just as he's about to drive the Cadillac back into the yard --
Wait, wait! All right you bloody fascist, I'll pay. But if there's even the slightest scratch on it... Howie smiles, thought so, gets out and splits. As Cowell angrily starts making out a check, the Cashier flicks the switch to open the gate, and as it opens-- Ryan slips in. He sneaks behind the wheel of the idling Cadillac. And the moment Cowell hands over his check -- VRRRROOOM!!    Ryan burns rubber out of there.
Hey, that's my car! Cowell chases it -- and watches in horror as Ryan takes a speed bump too fast and TEARS THE REAR BUMPER OFF THE
NOooooooo...!!
Thank you! As he flips it open, his eyes spot THE LAPTOP on the floor of the passenger seat. Ryan thinks, pulls out his SECURITY DVD and pops it in. At first, the SCREEN is a mere wash of digital gobbledygook-- And as Ryan grunts with frustration -- --a Hi-Res QUICKTIME MOVIE suddenly fills the screen:
GREER wastes no time in SHOOTING the second man execution style!
151    ANGLE ONE: Ellis and Hodges finally kick open the door and 151 rush inside-- ANGLE THREE:     The COPS rush inside the building, consult the Directory... ANGLE FOUR:    Craig, panicked, reaches over to the DVD Recorder --
I'm so screwed. As Ryan speeds away from the curb, he fingers his cellphone.
Boss, you better take this. Greer stops, a footstep away from seeing the open attic door. From the bottom of the steps, Hodges tosses him a CORDLESS PHONE. Greer puts it to his ear.
What?
Shut up and listen to me, asswipe. I got what you want.
Who is this?
You know who this is, shithead!
Look, sir, we can take your name off our list if you want, but you don't have to get nasty--
What--?    Who is this?
Mark.     At Mastercharge Credit Union-
*59             A frickin' telemarketer? But I                            159 just hit "Last Incoming Call"-- Ryan suddenly puts it together.
You bastard. The Telemarketer quickly hangs up before it gets ugly.
Look, Captain, we've got to do everything we can to protect this guy. I mean, shit, with all his years in he's owed a little.
He's with you? How'd he find out?
Said something about a kid who came into the station earlier-- Greer grimaces, putting it together.
Early twenties? Stumbled out of Brian Wilson's hamper?
Yeah.   Something like that.
Tomlin. Take care of him.      No witnesses. That's more than Tomlin bargained for.
Are you sure that's necessary, sir?
You know once the shitstorm starts, there's nothing I can do to save you.
Sure. That's what I thought.        I'll tell him.
Keep pressure on it until you get it stitched.
What's the word?
Not g9od. I.A.'s not throwing out any lifelines with all that's going on.. .  Come on. You can write a statement while I take you to the hospital.
Well?   What'd he say?
You know a desk jockey named Mooney?
Greer turns and pounds down the stairs.
Baby, please! It's okay now. We're gonna go home!  Ricky, please! Somehow, the kid digs deep and finds the courage to run to the Escalade, where his mother scoops him up into the cab just as-- The kitchen door bursts open and Greer's team spills out into the yard. They spot her instantly.
Get out of the car!    Get out of the goddamned car!! As they rush at her--
Come on!    COME ON!! Jessica rocks the car forward, and back. Forward, and back. And just as it finally comes loose -- KRRRAAASHHH!! The window next to Jessica's head EXPLODES in a shower of tempered glass, shocking us. Two arms snake in and wrap around Jessica's neck. Greer. But Jessica STOMPS ON THE GAS, hoping the big car will pull her free. It doesn't. As the Escalade surges away across the lawn, Greer's vice-like grip holds, PULLING JESSICA OUT the broken window and -- THUMP! -- to the guest house debris below. As Jessica watches in horror:
Balls his fist in Jessica's hair and yanks her around hard.
Nobody!
Stop it!   Don't hurt her!! Seething mad, Greer rips his gun from its holster and is literally about to blow Jessica's brains out when--
Bad timing, Tomlin. But it isn't Tomlin on the phone this time.       It's--
Feel like a trade?
The mysterious bike messenger.   How did you get this number? In the Cadillac, PUSH IN on Ryan t9 show the CELLPHONE MANUAL he picked up at the Verizon store in his hand.
Gotta love modern technology... My new phone knows the numbers of the last fifty incoming calls.
What do you want?
Just the woman and her kid.
Who are you? What's your name?
My name is F you. I've got your shit, pal, it doesn't work that way.
Really?  Go cut the kid's throat. Though Ryan's eyes widen in panic, his voice remains cool.
Fine.     Your loss.   Nice talking to you. And Ryan hangs up. He waits nervously, sweating, staring at the phone for the longest seconds of his life--
Ring.     C'mon, damn it, ring!   RING! Then it does. Ryan waits a couple rings, slowing his speeding heart, then nonchalantly picks up.
So, how do you want to do this?
Put on a big ass Ronald McDonald smile, apologize to the kid and the woman and bring 'em to the Santa Monica pier.
No.     Somewhere quieter.
Dude, you're lucky I'm still talkin' to your sorry ass. You do as I say, exactly as I say, or I hang up now and slap this bitch on Nightline, you know what I'm sayin'? There's a long beat.
Fine.    But you come alone.
Done.
How will I recognize you?
You let me worry about that. What's your cell number?
555-8342. An hour then?
I can hardly wait. Ryan hangs up.    A scared, but satisfied smile...
 Shouldn't we be on Pico? To the right, some PEOPLE wait for a bus.      Tomlin turns left.
County will have a six hour wait. Ten if they know you're a cop. Mooney grunts his gratitude as Tomlin heads toward a wasteland of warehouses. And just as any potential witnesses vanish from sight -- Tomlin's cellphone RINGS!      He lowers the gun and answers the call.
Yeah?
Is it taken care of?
Not yet.
Good. We're making a trade with the kid at the Santa Monica Pier. Your boy can ID the kid for us. Bring him down.
 I'm on it. Tomlin flips his phone closed and turns the car around.
We caught a break with the kid. He's been spotted on the pier. Think you can hang on a little longer? Just enough to ID the kid before we patch you up? Mooney clearly doesn't want to say "no."     But it hurts.
Whaddaya say? Up to you. Beat.
Let's solve the goddamn thing.
With all the CHEERING, DANCING and DRINKING going on, it's like Times Square on New Years Eve.
You like it?  Happy Birthday. THUD. The Friends' jaws hit the ground. And as they run to the Cadillac XLR, Ryan disappears into the crowd...
I'm in position.
Copy.
Only take the kid out if it's clean. No guess work. The last thing we need's a stampede. Greer paces anxiously -- when suddenly his Nextel RINGS.     He answers it, though it's hard to hear over the music.
You here?
Yeah.
How do you want to do this?
First show me that Jessica and the kid are okay.
Do you have the disc?
Yes.     Where are they?
See the black van at the bottom of the bridge? Passenger side window.
Hang on.  Okay, got it. Greer muffles the phone against his leg.     Whispers to Ellis:
He's within visual of the car. Greer takes his police walkie and toggles it.
Hodges, show the woman. Lower the passenger side window only.
Did you see that?
Yes. Greer muffles the phone again.      Whispers to Ellis.
He's around the passenger side. Have you found him yet?
No.  I don't know what the hell he looks like!
He's the one on the cellphone, you idiot 1
Everyone's on a cellphone! I've got like fifty possible targets here! Ellis' cross hairs flit from one person on a cell, to another, to another...
Your turn.    Now you show me something.
No. Put them on the Ferris wheel. I want to see them safe first.
That wasn't part of the deal.
Deal's changed.
I've been thinking. Does me no good to hand over the DVD and then you and the funky bunch take us out. -x
I swore I wouldn't do that.
Like you swore to protect and serve? The reference brings Greer up short.       There's a moment, then:
You know a lot...
And I'll forget a lot, too. But not until they're both out of danger. Now PAN AROUND TO REVEAL Ryan among the crowd, wearing a SURFING WINDBREAKER; HOODED with WATERPROOF POCKETS -- but where's his cellphone? Moving closer, we see Ryan's wearing the EARBUD MIKE from the Verizon store. With the earbud concealed under the loose hood, Ryan looks like anyone else just watching the show.
Your choice, man. The Martins or the DVD. Either way, I'm not hanging around any longer. You got five seconds, then I disconnect your ass.
You sure you know what you're doing?
One...     Two... On the other end of the phone:
Three...    Four... --but Ryan's got him by the balls.     Angrily, Greer lifts his walkie.
Okay! Okay.  Hodges, put 'em on the Ferris wheel.
What? I
Shut up and do it!
Not bad. Most people never get past two. Greer flinches as his own taunts are used against him.
 Keep an eye on them. As soon as we make the trade, take the woman and her kid out.
Don't screw me kid, y9u won't live long enough to enjoy it.
Oooh, I think I just pissed myself. Ryan looks optimistic when Hodges gets out and opens the back door. And just as he's on the brink of success--
There you are! Where the hell were you! ?
Chloe!    Get away from here!
Know how many hours I waited for you to bring back those stupid shirts?! What'd you do? Sell them on the Prominade yourself--? But Ryan's got no time for this.
 That's him! There he is!
It isn't safe to talk, get it? I -- People are after me!
 What -- are you high? Suddenly, Mooney steps up beside Ryan and grabs him.
 I've been..looking for..you, kid-- But Ryan struggles, thinking Mooney is with the bad guys. Mooney grabs him as he tries to make a break for it.
Let go of me! Sonofabitch, let go!
GREER's pissed.     Pacing on the roof, when:
I've got him! Instantly, Greer jams the walkie to his face, and we--
Hodges, do not let them go! Do you hear me? Do not let them go!
 Jesus, kid, calm down!! Trying to break Mooney's stronghold, Ryan SHOVES him backwards, SLAMMING his injured shoulder into the PIER
Mooney SCREAMS out in pain and grabs his shoulder, releasing-- Ryan, who BREAKS AWAY and turns to see Mooney COLLAPSE to the ground, holding his blood-soaked shoulder. Ryan looks over to Chloe, whose face is a combination of shock and confusion.
Oh my God--  Someone call 911! A CROWD starts to gather when -- Ryan feels the barrel of a gun nudging his back.     Tomlin's gun.
It's over kid. Fuck! Ryan's got no choice but to slowly walk toward the end of the pier. MOONEY - From his prone position, he catches a glimpse of Tomlin backing Ryan quietly into the crowd. Not trying to help. Not calling for an ambulance. In that instant, Mooney knows he's been betrayed. Tomlin's in on this.
For all the trouble you've caused, you'd better have that goddamned disc. Where is it? Just then, Greer appears through the crowd ahead of him. Like a nightmare, he closes in. Ryan slowly slips his phone into a waterproof pocket in his windbreaker and zips it up.
Aw shit... Ryan's world is spinning -- the NOISE, the CROWDS, the
He KICKS BACK hard into Tomlin's SHIN. It is enough for Tomlin to release his grip and Ryan bolts. Tomlin recovers and raises his GUN to get a bead on Ryan, but it causes the crowd around him to PANIC.
Dude's gotta gun! Ryan navigates through the fleeing crowd and turns to see Greer and Tomlin quickly gaining ground. He has to make a choice, either go over the railing, or deal with Greer and Tomlin. Ryan decides on the ocean. He runs to a MAN FISHING WITH HIS SON and uses their ice chest as a step. Just as he JUMPS THE RAIL -- Tomlin gets off a SHOT! SLIIIIIICEE!!! The bullet tears through Ryan's shoulder as he spins headlong into the Pacific! TOMLIN AND GREER run to the railing and see Ryan HIT the CHOPPY WATER below.
Under the pier. Go! Go!
 Think! Think!
You better lie still. The paramedics should be here shortly. But Mooney's obstinate.   He rises despite her best efforts.
Just keep that ambulance close by. And as he stumbles off--
You're wounded kid, just give me what I came for, and I'll let you all go. Police sirens in the distance grow louder. Tomlin's offer goes unanswered.    That's when he notices the BLOOD on the ground. Tomlin smiles, following Ryan's trail to a PILE OF BLOOD-SMEARED TARPS -- where the trail ends! It's obvious Ryan used these to staunch his wound. Shit! He's gonna have to search this whole place-- Then, suddenly, Tomlin gets an idea. He pulls out his phone, making sure it's concealed from view, and writes a TEXT MESSAGE to-- x95   EXT. SANTA MONICA PIER - NIGHT                                     195 Greer pulls out his ringing cell phone. On the text screen it says, "CALL HIM". Greer flashes an wicked grin, and dials the last number on his call log.
Shoulda stayed at home this morning, kid. And just then, Tomlin throws off the shredded tarp exposing-- Ryan's cellphone.   And nothing else.
Funny. I was about to say the same to you.
What the-- And in the instant Tomlin realizes he's been tricked, he turns and--
Tomlin? Anyone copy? Jessica, cuffed from behind, covertly wriggles the handcuffs under her ass toward her feet. Ricky, terrified, screams "no" with his eyes. But she knows she's out of time.
Got him.   He's in the parking lot.
I've got a clean shot.
No! We don't have the DVD. Just hold his location. Hodges, parking lot now! Just as Hodges reaches for the door handle -- Jessica wraps her cuffs around his throat, throws her legs against the back of his seat and pulls like her life depended on it. Hodges chokes, flails, digs, and claws at the cuffs, but his fingertips are no match for Jessica's muscular legs.
Ricky run!    Find help! Ricky's paralyzed with fear.
Ricky bolts from the car.
She finally exits the van, but not before grabbing the WALKIE TALKIE and GUN.
He's heading for the cops.       We should do it now. Mooney looks to the roof of the carousel and sees Ellis.
""Freeze! Drop your weapon! Ellis quickly swings his rifle and-- BAM! Mooney shoots Ellis in the head, causing him to slide off the carousel roof.
No more bullshit!     Just give me the goddamn disc! Ryan slowly unzips his front jacket pocket and removes the
Greer snatches it and SMASHES it to pieces. Fragments fall through the cracks in the pier, to the ocean below. Ryan, pale as ghost, knows he's seconds from meeting his maker.
This is about to be the most enjoyable part of an extremely shitty day. And just as he's about to pull the trigger -- BLAM!! Jessica fires a WARNING SHOT. Greer( startled, spins around to see Jessica pointing Hodges' gun in his face.
Tell me why I shouldn't kill you. For the first time, Greer actually looks frightened. Recognizing the homicidal look in her eyes, he SPUTTERS, but nothing comes out. Ryan, weak and pale with blood loss, looks up at his guardian angel.
Jess... Jessica?     Don't. Jessica trembles with rage, a tear falls.
I... I have to.
Lower the weapon, Jessica.
 Ricky's safe. It's all going to be okay. Put it down. Jessica slowly lowers the gun and looks into Ryan's face.
Thank you for keeping your promise. As the cops move in and drag Greer to his feet, Ryan calls out to him.
Hey man, your shitty day is about to get a whole lot shittier. Ryan flips open his phone and on the SCREEN plays the SECURITY FOOTAGE of the murder in the parking lot. We see that Ryan must've copied the DVD with his videophone.
Ain't that a bitch? And through the tears, Jessica manages a laugh. A small one. But enough to let us know everything's going to be okay. And as we PULL BACK on the scene--
...The Santa Monica Pier was the latest setting in the ongoing 23rd Precinct corruption scandal. Ryan Ackerman, a local resident, risked his life to save a family kidnapped by officers to cover up... Chloe strokes Ryan's scalp with her fingers.
"""How does it feel to be a hero?
 It hurts... But you're making it way better. I'm just glad it's over.
 Modesty can be sexy.
And to think this was our first date.
Next time, skip the shower. In the background, Jessica and Ricky exit a hospital room and join the two lovebirds.
Craig's very weak, but the doctors say it looks promising. He's probably going to have to walk with a cane, but that's the worst of it... I'm just thankful. Chloe senses that Jessica and Ryan might need a moment alone.
Come on Ricky, let's get a hot chocolate. A small smile forms on Ricky's exhausted face. Chloe leads Ricky down the hall.
I can't believe I almost lost everything that means... I don't know how I can ever thank you.
I do.  Don't ever call me again. A shared laugh, then as they turn to the television--
But this time, as we PULL BACK on the scene, we realize no one's going to answer it.
