Walter...time for school, honey.
Just ten more minutes --
Sorry, champ. 
You can sleep in all you want tomorrow, that's what Saturdays are for. Now hurry up or your breakfast will get cold.
It's cereal, it's supposed to be cold.
We're here, sweetie.   Come on.
Okay Sandy, what's the prob--
You deal with this one, I'm not going near it.
Hello? Yes, this is the supervisor, ma'am, what can I --  Yes, I can see that you're on a party line, ma'am, what can I --  I know, it's unfortunate, but people sometimes do listen in on party lines. We hope to have private lines installed by --  Well, what's he doing when you're on the phone?  Are you sure? Maybe there's a problem with the phone line. He could be asthmatic, or --  Oh. No, I...I've never heard of anything like that before either. Guess there's a first time for everything, right? No, I'm afraid there's nothing we can do about people abusing the equipment or... themselves. I'm sorry. I --
Everything all right? CHRISTINE Fine, Mr. Harris...fine...just someone having a problem with a... with the connection.
Tell them to take the plug and shove it in and out a few times, that'll usually do it.
Unfortunately that was part of the problem. If you'll excuse me....
Hey, sport.
Hey, mom.
So how was school?
Okay. We learned about dinosaurs, and I got in a fight with Billy Mankowski.
What happened?
He hit me.
Did you hit him back?  Good. Rule number one: Never start a fight, but always finish it. So why did he hit you?
Because I hit him.
Wait...you hit him first?  Why?
He said my dad ran off because he didn't like me.
Your dad never even had a chance to meet you...so how could he not like you?
Then why did he leave?
Well, the same day you were born, something else arrived. It came in the mail, in a box just slightly bigger than you. You know what was in that box?  Something called responsibility. Now, to some people, responsibility is fun, it's what you live your whole life for. Other people think it's the scariest thing in the world.
So he ran away because he was scared of what was in the box?
Yup.
That's dumb.
That's what I thought.
Walter, I decided a long time ago that I would always tell you the truth, that I would treat you like a grown-up. I can't expect you to respect me unless I respect you.  I've never lied to you. Your father leaving had nothing to do with you, and everything to do with what was in the responsibility box.
Pinky-swear?
Pinky-swear.
First one to the corner store gets ice cream!
Did I miss Amos and Andy?
I'm afraid so, sport.   Come on now, time for bed.
Are we still going to the movies tomorrow?
Uh-huh. I hear there's a new Charlie Chaplin playing down at Grauman's, and a new serial called The Mysterious Airman.
Who's that?
I don't know. Nobody does. That's what makes him so mysterious.
Oh.   Am I too heavy for you to carry?
Not for years yet, Walter.     Not for years.
Hello?  Oh, hello, Margaret. I'm fine, thanks. No, I was just --  You're kidding. When did she call in sick?  What about Myrna? I know she could use the extra hours. Oh. No, it's just...I promised Walter I'd take him to the movies today. There has to be somebody else....  All right, I...guess we can do it tomorrow. I'll get there as soon as I can. But just until four, okay? See you in a bit.
There's a sandwich and milk in the icebox, and I've asked Mrs. Riley if her daughter can stop by in a couple of hours, just to --
I can take care of myself.
Of course you can. She's coming by to check on the house, not you.
Tomorrow, we'll go to the movies. Then we'll ride the Big Red down to Santa Monica and walk on the pier. How's that? That okay? 
 Good. I'll be back before it gets dark.
I'm not afraid of the dark.     I'm not afraid of anything.
I know you're not, honey. That's how I raised you.  Be good. See you in a bit.
We've got lines jammed from here to Ohio...he insists on talking to someone in charge...I've tried everything and the console's just dead...I need your signature here for a supply requisition....
All right, get me the Omaha routing station, see if we can put the calls through their switchers...and let's get that console running....
Christine...good, I was hoping to catch you. I've been following your work reports, and I just want you to know that I'm very impressed.
When I first suggested hiring female supervisors, my superiors weren't big on the idea. But you've held your own as well as any of our male supervisors, and --
Thank you, Mr. Harris, but I --
Ben, please. Point is, we're looking for someone to take on a managerial position in our new Beverly Hills office. If you're interested I can --
That's great, Mr. Harris, I really appreciate the vote of confidence.
Good, good...so maybe we could --
I'm sorry, but I really have to go. We'll talk on Monday. Good night! She races out to
Wait...wait...hold on, just a --
Walter?
Walter...?
Walter?   Honey? Time to come in.
Susie honey, have you seen Walter?
Nuh-uh.
Mrs. Riley, I'm sorry to bother you at dinnertime, but I was wondering if Walter was here.
No, I'm afraid not.
Do you know if Jamie was able to look in on him?
Well, I mentioned it to her, but she was going to a dance with some of her friends...you know how teenagers are. Is everything all right?
I'm sure it's fine, I just...  Thank you, Mrs. Riley.
Walter...?     Walter.... She starts walking again. Faster now. Looking around trees and porches, anywhere a nine-year-old boy might hide. She hears children playing. Laughing. She picks up her pace, homing in on the sound.
Yes, Operator, give me the police.
Lincoln Heights Division.
Yes, hello, my name is Christine Collins, I live at 210 North Avenue 23...I'm calling to report a missing child...it's my son, he....
How long has he been gone?
I'm not sure...I just got home from work and...it could be since late this morning, it could be just an hour --
Have you checked around the neighborhood?
Yes, of course, I --
Maybe he lost track of the time.
No, he always stays around the house when it starts to get dark. Can you please send someone down here? POLICE DISPATCHER I'm sorry, but our policy is that we don't dispatch units on missing child cases for twenty-four hours.
What?   But that's --
Ninety-nine times out of a hundred the kid shows up by morning. We don't have the resources to go chasing every kid who runs off with his pals and --
That's not Walter, he doesn't do that.
With all due respect, ma'am, every parent who calls us says the same thing.
Please, I --
I'm sorry, but there's nothing I can do. I'll take your name and information, but that's all until tomorrow morning at the earliest.
I'm sure he'll show up by then. They always do.
Our thoughts go out again to Mrs. Christine Collins, of Lincoln Heights --
-- whose young son, Walter Collins, disappeared almost two weeks ago.
Though she is not a member of our congregation, we pray for her today 
as we have every day since we first learned of her situation on the radio, and in the newspapers.  We are told that the Los Angeles Police Department is doing the best it can to reunite mother and child, and I am sure that is true.  But given its position as the most violent, corrupt and incompetent police department this side of the Rocky Mountains, that's not saying a great deal.
Every day, new bodies show up along Mulholland, or in ditches, the work of Police Chief James Davis and his so-called "gun squad." Every day the needs of honest citizens are put second to greed and personal gain. Every day, the city sinks deeper into a cesspool of fear, intimidation and corruption. Once the City of Angels, Los Angeles is now a place where our protectors have become our brutalizers...where to be the law...is to be above the law...where none dare speak truth to power.  But we will not be silent. We will continue to put their offenses and their failures in full view of the public. We will not be intimidated.
Because while the "gun squad" speaks in the only language Chief Davis understands, we speak in the language of compassion, truth and strength. We speak for our fellow citizens, beaten and killed by a renegade police department. 
We speak for an innocent child, ripped from his mother's arms, now all but forgotten by the police. And that voice, my friends, will never be silenced.
Are you sure you're ready for this, Christine?
I mean, if you need more time --
The police are doing all they can, and frankly I could use the money. It's been almost a month, and...it wouldn't do any good to find Walter and bring him home if he doesn't have a home to come back to, right?
Of course.
Well...I'll leave you to it, then.
Excuse me, can I have your attention?
Listen, everyone, I appreciate your consideration, but I'm not made of porcelain. I won't break down and cry if the station to station call to Kankakee doesn't go through.  Actually, I...promised myself that I wouldn't cry...wouldn't let myself cry...until I knew, one way or another, what....  Point is...I like the noise here. So don't be afraid to talk and...push buttons, and drop things. If it wasn't noisy, how would I know I was in the right place?
Excuse me, has anyone seen Christine?
I think I saw her in the back office.
-- well, if you do hear anything, would you let me know? Thanks, I appreciate it. Goodbye.
Missing Persons department, please.  Yes, hello, this is Christine Collins, I...yes, fine, thank you. I was just checking back to see if you had found any missing or lost children that might match the --  I see. No, I appreciate that, it's just...it never hurts to make sure all the lines of communication are working. I mean, that's what I do for a living, right?  Well, I'll try back next week. If you do hear anything in the meantime, would you be sure to let me know? Thanks. Goodbye.
Missing persons department, please.
Two dollars.
Hell...looks like I left my wallet at home. Can I owe it to you?
No credit. Pay up or I call the cops. I'm tired of bums like you coming around here.
I'm not trying to stiff you, chief. I just left my wallet at home, that's all. I'll go back and get it. Five, ten minutes tops.
You got any collateral?
Can't ask for better collateral than a man's own flesh and blood, right?  You stay here, son, I'll be right back.
But --
Now don't give me any trouble. He's a good man to trust us like this. You just sit here while I go get my wallet. Okay?
Ten minutes, then I'm calling the cops.
Ah, hell....
Hello, Myrtle? It's Harve, down by the diner. Would you get me Sheriff Larsen? Yeah, I'll wait.
What's your name, son?    Son...?
I don't remember. COOK Swell.
Mrs. Collins?
My name is Captain J. J. Jones, Lincoln Park Juvenile Division. My office supervises all runaway and missing child cases, including your son's, and....  He's alive, Mrs. Collins. He was picked up two days ago by local police in De Kalb, Illinois. He's safe and unhurt. He was in the company of some drifter, we've got an APB out for him now, and --
All these reporters...you didn't tell me --
Yours is a story with a happy ending, Mrs. Collins. People love happy endings.  Train should be pulling in shortly. We'd better get a move on.
Thank you...we'll have a statement for you in a little while. 
Right now the important thing is to re-unite this little lady with her son. So if you'll excuse us....
Did you know that Los Angeles is where they make the Tom Mix movies?
No, I didn't.
His horse is named Blue.  You think they'll let me watch them make a movie?
I don't know, you'll have to ask. But with all this attention, who knows, maybe they will.
Mrs. Collins, I'd like to introduce you to Chief of Police James E. Davis.
Oh, my, I didn't expect --
We don't get a lot of positive attention from the boys in the press these days, so it's good to be here when there's a positive story, don't you think?
I take it you've been treated well by my boys in the department?
Oh...yes, of course, they've been great. Well, there was that part about having to wait twenty-four hours before filing a report, but --
Technicalities aside --
Yes...other than that, no complaints. They've all been wonderful.
Good, then you won't have any problem telling that to the press, and how the LAPD is concerned first and foremost with the safety of --
Women.    Just a sec....
Walter...Walter!
Well?   Aren't you going to --
He's not my son.
I...what are you --
He's not my son.  He's not my son.
I'm...I'm sure you're mistaken.
Mistaken?
He's been through four long, terrible months...he's gone through changes, lost weight --
I know my own son.
I'm just saying...I mean, you're in shock, and he's changed, and --
What's your name, son?   Can you tell me your name?
Walter Collins.
It's a common name, it --
Do you know where you live, Walter? Do you know your home address?
My house is at 210 North Avenue 23, Los Angeles, California.  And that's my Mommy!
Mrs. Collins...listen to me. I know you're feeling uncertain right now, but that's to be expected...a boy this age changes so fast...but we've compensated for that in our investigation. We're experts in child identification. There's no question that this is your son.
It's not Walter.
It's not Walter as you remember him. That's why it's important for you to take him home, on a...trial basis.
A trial basis?
Once you've put him back in familiar surroundings, and given yourself time to recover from the shock of his changed condition...you'll see that it is him. I swear to you, Mrs. Collins. I give you my word. Trust me...this is your son.
If there's any problem, any problem at all, come and talk to me and I'll take care of it.  Mrs. Collins...he has nowhere else to go.
I...look, I'll take him home, but only because I...might not be thinking clearly right now, and --
Thank you.
How does it feel to have your son home, Mrs. Collins? What did you think when you saw him for the first time?
It was...it's...hard to explain.
 It was certainly quite a shock. At first she hardly recognized him. Perfectly natural, the boy's been through quite an ordeal.
How're you feeling, son?   Bet it feels great to be home.
Yeah, it's great! DAVIS The Los Angeles Police Department is thankful for all the hard work done by the De Kalb County Sheriff's Department in helping to make this joyful reunion possible. The LAPD is dedicated to serving the public at all times, and --
Can we get a photo of mother and son, Captain?
I --
Absolutely.
Was the sandwich all right?  Would you like some more milk?
No.
No, thank you. "WALTER" No, thank you.
Now you need a bath. You're covered with soot from the train ride.
I found you a pair of pajamas. I bought them for Walter but he didn't like the fabric, so --
Ow!
Are you all right?
I fell.   Stupid tub.
Did you hurt yourself?     Let me see --
...circumcised....
The last time I measured Walter -- the last time I measured my son -- he was four inches taller than you are right now.  Who are you?  What are you doing here?  Who are you?
He's not my son.
Mrs. Collins --
I don't know who he is, or why he's saying he's Walter, but there's clearly been some kind of mistake.
We agreed you would give him time to adjust --
He's four inches shorter than Walter. Boys his age don't shrink. If anything, he should be taller.
Maybe your measurements are off. Look, I'm sure there's a reasonable explanation for --
He's circumcised. Walter wasn't.
Mrs. Collins...your son was missing for four months. For at least part of that in the company of an as-yet unidentified drifter. Who knows what such a disturbed individual might have done? He could have had him...circumcised... might have --
Made him smaller? Captain, please --
-- why won't you listen to me?
I am listening, damn it, I --  I am listening. And I understand your feelings. He's changed, no mistake. You've both been through a terrible experience. That's why he needs your support and love to bounce back.
Captain, that boy wouldn't bounce back as my son if you coated him in rubber and dropped him off the roof.
Why are you doing this, Mrs. Collins? You seem perfectly capable of taking care of the boy, your work pays you enough to attend to his personal needs...so I don't understand why you're trying to run away from your responsibilities --
I'm not running away from anything, least of all my responsibilities. I'm even taking care of that boy because right now I'm all he has. What worries me is that you've stopped looking for Walter.
Why should we look someone we've already found?
But you haven't found him. He's still out there somewhere, lost, maybe hurt....
His identity has been confirmed by the best minds in the field of child identification, people who know what they're doing. CHRISTINE And I don't? Captain, look, I don't want to cause trouble for you or the department. Honestly I don't. I know you've done everything you can...but there's been a terrible mistake, and I need your help if we're going to correct it...before it's too late. Please.
Sara, get Dr. Tarr on the phone.
Mrs. Collins? Dr. Earl W. Tarr. Captain Jones sent me. I consult with him from time to time on juvenile cases. May I come in?
Oh...yes, of course.
Thank you for coming. I'm surprised Captain Jones moved so quickly. I was starting to think he didn't believe me.
Well, I'm here now, and we'll put all that to rights. Where is the boy?
Ah! There he is. A handsome young man. He has your eyes, doesn't he? And a little bit of the nose. Very fit, in spite of all his travails. A very resilient boy you've got here, Mrs. Collins. As he bends down to look more closely at "Walter," Christine stiffens...she can't have heard that right.
Doctor Tarr, I thought you were here to help me.
I am. Captain Jones said the boy had gone through some extreme physical changes, and asked me to look in on him...to reassure you in this your time of motherly concern.
My "motherly concern" isn't for him because he's not my son.
Statements like that will hardly help the boy's self-esteem, now will they?  Captain Jones said something about a change in height...?
He's four inches shorter than --
Ah, well...hardly a mystery, Mrs. Collins. We've known for some time that trauma can affect the growth of children. Given the stress of the last four months his spine may have actually shrunk. It's uncommon, but within the realm of possibility.
What about the circumcision?
Very likely his abductor thought it appropriate. After all, circumcision is hygienically sound. Must have been quite traumatic at the time. No wonder he's submerged the memory.
Look, doctor --
As you can see, there's a perfectly sound medical explanation for all of this. But it's good for you to raise these questions. You should be apprised of all changes the lad went through during his absence.
Wouldn't I know whether or not he was my son? I'm his mother.
Which means you're in no position to be objective. You are looking through the prism of extreme emotion at a boy who has changed from what you remember. He isn't the same boy that left here, just as a boy who goes off to war and returns isn't the same anymore. 
A mother's heart, driven by intuition and emotion rather than logic, sees these changes and rebels, insists that this cannot be your son. But that doesn't change the facts.  I'm willing to put my theory to the test of objectivity, Mrs. Collins... are you?
What're you --
Hello, children, my name is Dr. Earl W. Tarr. I'd like to ask you some questions.
My mom says we're not supposed to talk to strangers.
Good boy. Quite right. But as you see I'm with the police, so it's all right. Now, I'm sure you know Mrs. Collins here, and her son, Walter. How many of you recognize this young boy as Walter Collins?
Now, now, no need to be afraid. Surely you knew Walter, and played with him? So which of you can identify Walter for me, for his mother, and for the police? This officer would want you to do the right thing as good young citizens.
Walter was as tall as me....
Yes, precisely. He was as tall as you. Now he's not. He's lost a little height, you see. It's a thing called trauma. With luck, none of you will ever have to find out about it yourselves. So other than that, do you recognize this as your friend, Walter Collins?
I guess...
Dr. Tarr --
Already ahead of you, Mrs. Collins; children can be intimidated. But not adults. Shall we try a neighbor?
-- and we'd appreciate it if you could make a positive identification for us. MRS. RILEY I'd be happy to. I saw the boy often. Come closer, son.
Take your time...be sure.
Oh, yes...yes...that's Walter all right. Used to come here all the time to play with my nephew, Roger.
Thank you, Mrs. Riley.   You've been a big help, I --
Before we go...Mrs. Riley, do you have the time?
Certainly....
My last concession to vanity; men don't make passes at women who wear glasses, you know.  Five o'clock.
Thank you.
A boy is much larger than a watch, Mrs. Collins.  Come along, son.
This is absolutely outrageous!
Captain, I...no, listen to me, this so-called doctor paraded me around my own neighborhood like some kind of derelict mother who couldn't even recognize her own --  He found what he expected to find, what you obviously told him he would find, but it's not --  No, I am not reassured. 
I thought we had an understanding, I --  That I was embarrassed isn't the issue, the point is you're wasting time when you should be looking for my son, I --  Then I want to see this report, so I can refute it, before it goes to anyone else, all right? Fine.
I'm finished. Can I go to my room now?
Yes.   Go on up.
G'night, Mommy.
Stop saying that! I'm not your mother! And you're not my son! She moves toward him, her anger coming out at last.
WHO ARE YOU? WHY ARE YOU DOING THIS TO ME? DAMN YOU! I WANT MY SON BACK!
I was wrong to yell at you. You're still a child, and I think you don't really understand what you're doing, the hurt you're causing. Maybe this is all just some big game of pretend to you, but I need you to understand. Walter is...he's all I have, he's everything to me, and every day we lose because of this puts him further away from where I can help him.  Whatever the police think, whatever the world thinks, we know the truth, don't we? We both know you're not Walter. Getting you to admit that may be the only chance I have to straighten this out before it's too late. Maybe you're afraid of getting in trouble, that you're in too deep. But you're not. You don't have to tell me who you are, you just have to tell them who you're not. Just... tell them the truth.
Hello?
Is this Mrs. Christine Collins?
Yes?   Who is this?
My name is Gustav Briegleb, I'm the pastor over at St. Paul's --
Oh, yes, I heard some of your radio broadcasts after my son...you were very supportive, and I appreciate --
Mrs. Collins...have you seen the Times today?
No, I --
You'd better take a look. Then come by the parish in an hour for breakfast. I think we should meet.
"Acting on the request of the Los Angeles Police Department, Dr. Earl 
W. Tarr, child specialist, examined Walter Collins to determine the cause of his loss of weight, paleness, confusion and run-down condition noticed since the return of the boy to his mother last Saturday."
Lovely bit of phrasing, isn't it? Noticed since the return of the boy to his mother. Not only does it state clearly that you are the boy's mother, one could infer from this that you are somehow responsible for these changes...and that the police are concerned for the boy's welfare in your hands.  You should try the eggs, they're very good.
 "I examined the boy quite thoroughly, Dr. Tarr said --
-- and it's clear that he has something to tell. I'm sure that in time he will give his boyish story of the entire affair, but not until he has faith in his listener. And that is what is lacking: faith in the poor lad's story. In the course of my examination, I found nothing to dispute the findings by the LAPD.
How come he hasn't been able to tell anyone what happened while he was gone?
I would say that the boy has either been coached or questioned to a point where he is largely confused about what happened to him during 
those many months. It's possible that his mental lapse may be the result of a blow to the head or a sudden shock which brought about a possible cranial injury. I believe that this condition will pass soon. Until then, I recommend that the police department continue working with him, exposing him to whatever elements of his previous life as may help restore his memory.
Captain Jones promised he'd let me see the report before it went anywhere else.
Someone in authority at the LAPD lied? Good heavens, I may have to go lie down.
I was not laughing at your situation, Mrs. Collins. It's just...after one has this sort of conversation enough times, a certain degree of hysteria begins to set in. Please, sit. Reluctantly, she does.      Shakes her head in disbelief.
Why are they doing this?
To avoid admitting a mistake...that they brought back the wrong boy.  Anyone reading that with half a brain would see through it instantly. Sadly, that leaves out about half the Times' readership, but still....
Thank you. 
I've been trying to get someone to say those words since...god, I was starting to think I was losing my mind.  Thank you. At least someone believes me.
You have no idea how many people have sat in that very chair and said those exact same words to me in relation to our friends at the Los Angeles Police Department.  Mrs. Collins, I have made it my mission to bring to light all the things the LAPD would prefer no one knew anything about...a department ruled by violence, abuse, murder, corruption and intimidation.
When Chief Davis took over the LAPD two years ago, he said --
 We will hold court on gunmen in the Los Angeles streets. I want them brought in dead, not alive, and I will reprimand any officer who shows the least mercy to a criminal.
He picked fifty of the most dangerous cops on the force, gave them machine guns and permission to shoot anyone who got in their way. He called them the Gun Squad. No lawyers. No trials. No questions, suspensions or investigations. Just piles of bodies.
Bodies in morgues, bodies in hospitals, bodies by the side of the road, barely alive. Not because the police wanted to wipe out crime, they just wanted to get rid of the competition.
Mayor Cryer and half the police force are on the take. Prostitution, gambling, bootlegging, you name it.  When the gloves came off, pretty soon the rest of the department got into the brutality act. Didn't want the Gun Squad to have all the fun, after all.
The more they got away with it, the worse things got, because when you give folks the freedom to do whatever they want, as God saw in the Garden of Eden, they'll do just that.
This police department does not tolerate dissent, contradiction... or embarrassment, Mrs. Collins. You have the power to embarrass them...and they don't like it. Not when they became the Heroes of the Hour the day they stood there posing with you, having rescued a lost boy from the wilderness. 
 They will do everything they can to discredit you. I've seen it happen too many times to start going blind now. That's why I wanted to see you, so you'd know what you were getting into...and how to fight them.
Reverend Briegleb...I appreciate what you're saying, and what you're doing...but I'm not on a mission. The only thing I want is to find my son, that's all, and I just --
A lot of mothers' sons ended up being sacrificed to expediency around here, Mrs. Collins. Yours wouldn't be the first. Do this right, and maybe yours will be the last.
If they honestly thought I was wrong, that'd be one thing...but if they don't care, if they're just trying to cover it up....
This is their attempt to win by framing the discussion their way. "Why, of course it's her son...yes, there have been changes...we're looking into it, and isn't it strange that they happened after the boy got home?"  They're putting you in the position of having to disprove what they're saying...and that's hard. Most people believe what they hear from the police or the government. If you play it their way, you...and your son...are going to lose.
What do I have to do?
Change the rules of engagement. Re- define the argument. They brought in their expert, so you bring in yours. You have an advantage they don't. You know your son better than they ever will, and in that knowledge is the proof you need.  Get that information, put it out there. Make them respond to you, not the other way around.
Once people side with the police, it's a hard climb...but even in a town as loud as this one, the voice of truth can be heard...if you're willing to take it all the way in spite of the dangers...and they are very real, Mrs. Collins, make no mistake. Once you open the book on these people, you're going to be looking over your shoulder every day, maybe for the rest of your life.  You up to it, Mrs. Collins?
Well?
He had two cavities that needed filling. He put up a fight, but I took care of it.
And...?
Your son's upper front teeth were separated by a small muscle. Made them sit about an eighth of an inch apart. The boy in that room has no such gap.
Does a gap like that get smaller with age? Because that's what they'll say.
In some cases, yes, it's possible. But the muscle between Walter's teeth prevents that from happening. They can never come together without an operation to sever the muscle, and I can tell you right now that he has never had such an operation.
Will you be willing to sign a letter saying that officially?
Pardon my language, but...hell, yes.
Sounds like the anesthetic is wearing off.  On the other hand, maybe I'll write that letter first. Give the little fella something to think about. He smiles.
Well? What do you think? Is that the Walter Collins that you remember?
If it is, he's changed enormously.  Do you know who I am?
You're a teacher.
Yes, but even teachers have names. What's mine?
I don't remember. I know you, but I don't remember your name.
My name is Mrs. Fox.   Now, take your seat.
I didn't say take a seat. I said take your seat. Your assigned seat. You must know which one it is, you sat there for over a year.
Try again. Here's a hint: There's only one more empty seat left.
Mrs. Collins, if that's your son, I'll eat my yardstick. Not only will I put that in writing, I'll swear to it in a court of law and in front of President Calvin Coolidge himself if I have to.
I'll see you tonight at eight for my broadcast. I'll leave the back door open and a light on. Good luck.
Good morning. My name is Christine Collins. On March 10th, my nine year old son, Walter Collins, disappeared. A four month investigation resulted in a boy being brought to Los Angeles from De Kalb, Illinois. They told me, and all of you, that this boy was my son. They were wrong.  The Los Angeles Police Department made a mistake...a terrible mistake. The boy they found is not my son. That is the reason for the supposed "transformation." I have letters from his dentist, his teachers and others confirming that this boy is not my son. The letters are being reprinted now, and I should have them for you tomorrow.
I have given the police department every opportunity to admit their mistake and renew the search for my son. Since they have refused to do so, I have no choice but to present my case before the public. I hope this will persuade the police to finish the job they started, and bring my son home to me.  Thank you.
Morelli, I want you to find the Collins woman and get her here. Bring her in the back way, and have a couple of matrons standing by.
Yes, sir.
Why are we using the back door?
Captain's orders.     Front's jammed with reporters.
Is it? She allows a moment of quiet satisfaction as she's led into
Hey...anybody want to take a call from the Royal Canadian Mounties? Ybarra?
What'd they do, lose a moose?
They need a juvenile living here illegally deported back to Canada. He's living with his cousin on some ranch near Riverside, in Wineville.
All right, I'll take it, got nothing better to do....
Mrs. Collins.
Leave the boy for now.   We'll look after him.
You've put us through quite a bit of trouble, Mrs. Collins. This situation has become an embarrassment for the entire department.
It wasn't my intention to embarrass anyone. JONES No, of course not. You just told the papers we can't tell one boy from another as a compliment for the months we spent working on your case. Are you trying to make fools out of us? Is that it? Do you enjoy this?
No, of course not. I had to get your attention, I had to make you understand...he's not my son.
You know what your problem is? You want to shirk your responsibilities as a mother. You enjoyed being a free woman, didn't you? Enjoyed not having to worry about a young son. You could do what you wanted, go where you wanted, see anyone you wanted. But then we found your son. Brought him back. And now he's an inconvenience. That's why you cooked up this whole scheme, to try and throw him to the state, let the state raise him for you.
That's not true!
No? Even the boy says he's your son. Why would he do that? How would he know to do that?
I don't know! All I know is that he's lying!
Maybe so. Maybe he is a liar. But that's how he's been trained, isn't it? Lying was born in both of you. You're a liar and a troublemaker and if you ask me you've got no business walking the streets of Los Angeles.
Just a minute -- JONES Because either you know you're lying, or you're not capable of knowing if you're lying or telling the truth. So which is it, Mrs. Collins? Are you a derelict mother? Or just nuts? Because from where I sit, those are the only options.
I'm not going to sit here and take this --
You want to bring in experts? Doctors? Well, I can do that too.  Matron?
Mrs. Collins...do you still insist that the boy out there is not your son?
Yes.
Wait...what are you doing?
Please don't struggle, ma'am.   You'll only hurt yourself.
 You are to convey the prisoner to the Los Angeles County General Hospital Psychopathic Ward.
No...wait, you can't --
 Make the following entry in the booking department: Defendant states she has been deceived by police and others, and that they have given her a boy and tried to make her think it is her son when she says it is not.
Mrs. Collins has been known to us since about March 10, 1928, when she reported her nine-year-old son Walter missing.
The boy was gone until July, 1928. Since his return, she has complained that he is still missing, and has made repeated requests that he be found, saying, "This is not my Walter," even though positive identification has been established.
She suffers from paranoia, delusions of persecution, and dislocation from reality. She may be a threat to herself or others. We recommend that she be conveyed to the psychopathic ward for treatment and observation until her senses can be restored. The matron stops before the desk.   The NURSE barely looks up.
Got another code twelve.
Name?
Collins.   Christine.
Wait...please, this is a mistake.
 Certifying officer?
Captain J. J. Jones, Lincoln Heights division.
 Please...you have to listen to me. The police are doing this to punish me. They tried to force this boy on me and tell me he was my son, but it wasn't my son, and now they say I'm crazy --
Oh, god...oh god, please, no....
If you continue to struggle I'll have to put you in a straitjacket. Do you want that?  Good. Then behave yourself.  Code twelve.
No, please, you have to listen to me...wait...please!
Take off your clothes.
Why?
Physical examination, body cavity search and de-lousing. Required for all new patients.
That's not necessary --
You can remove your clothes yourself, or I can have the orderlies do it for you. Which do you prefer?
Spread your legs.  Wider.
Inside.
This is your room. The doctor's left for the day. He'll see you in the morning.
The morning? But...wait, I've got to talk to someone in authority --
Sorry.
My room...no, no...this is...this is MY room....
Then if I could just use the phone.
Phone privileges are earned by good behavior. You're not allowed newspapers, magazines, radio, books or sharp objects. This is for your own good.
Wait...please! There's been a terrible mistake!
My room. My room.       They SAID it was MY ROOM!
I'm sorry, I --
MY ROOM!     MY ROOM!   MY ROOM!   MY ROOM!
Problem?
Overheated, that's all.   She'll be fine in a bit.
Listen, could you give me a hand? I'm trying to find a place called the Northcott Ranch, up by Wineville.
Northcott Ranch...oh yeah. You're almost there. Follow this west for about two, three miles. Then the next right. That'll bring you right to it. Something going on?
Just looking into a juvenile matter. Thanks for the help.
Hello? ANOTHER ANGLE - POV SHOT
Anybody home?
This is the police. I have a warrant for a minor named Sanford Clark. Open the door and stand aside.
Stop it! Stop it or I'll push your face through the floor!
On your feet.
Jesus...what the hell's wrong with you? Don't you know assaulting a cop is against the law?
What difference does it make now?
We're just sending you back to Canada, son, it isn't the end of the world.
What?
You can't just stay in the U.S. as long as you want, pal. We've got a orders to send you back home, and --
Didn't know Canada was that funny.
No word from Mrs. Collins?  Get on down to her house, make sure she's all right. If she's not there, call the LAPD, see what they know.
This is Pastor Gustav A. Briegleb of St. Paul's Presbyterian Church, bringing you the Lord's word on radio KGF. Good evening.
I had hoped to have a guest with us tonight, but apparently she has been delayed. Since she can't be here to tell you what she told the press this afternoon, I'll fill in the best I can. I'm going to tell you what happened, and I'm going to keep telling you right here, every night...until someone does something about it.
I'd like a ticket to Canada. Alberta or Vancouver, whatever's leaving tonight.
Don't have anything going that far tonight. Best I can do is put you on a train for Seattle. From there you can transfer to one of the locals or drive across the border.
That'll be fine. TICKET VENDER Round-trip?
One way.
That'll be fifteen dollars.
Can I see the doctor?   Or someone in charge --
Breakfast is half an hour.
But I --
Down the hall. The doctor will call for you when he's ready.  Go or stay, either way I lock the door.
You should eat. Eating is normal. You got to do everything you can to look normal. That's the only chance you've got. Besides, you'll need the strength.
My name's Carol Dexter.    What's yours?
Christine.     Christine Collins.
Finish it all.    I know it's hard, but you have to   try. Lunch isn't as bad. Close,    but not as --
I won't be here that long. As soon as I can talk to a doctor, they'll realize there's been a terrible mistake and --
Yeah, that always works.  I heard them talking. You're here on a code twelve, police action. The doctors, the staff, they figure that if the police sent you here, there must be a good reason for it.
Then I'll just have to prove that I'm not insane.
Yeah? How? The more you try to act sane, the crazier you start to look. If you smile too much, you're delusional or stifling hysteria. If you don't smile, you're depressed. If you're neutral you're emotionally withdrawn and potentially catatonic.
You seem to have given this a great deal of thought.
I have. Don't you get it? You're code twelve. So am I. We're here for the same reason.  We pissed off the cops.
What, you thought you were the only one?  The lady over there was married to a cop who kept beating her up. When she tried to tell somebody, they sent her here. And that one? The police beat the crap out of her brother, broke both his arms. When she complained to the papers, they picked her up and...
What about you?
I...work nights.  I mean, I work nights. Downtown. In some of the clubs. You know.
This one client started hitting me, and he wouldn't stop. So I filed a complaint. Turns out he was a cop. Next thing I know, I'm here.
But how can they --
You're kidding right? Hey, everybody knows women are fragile, right? They're all emotions, no logic, nothin' goin' on upstairs. And sometimes, like when they say something that's a little, y'know, inconvenient...they just go fucking nuts, pardon my French. If we're insane, nobody has to listen to us. I mean, who are you going to believe, some crazy woman trying to destroy the integrity of the force, or a police officer? Then once they get us in here, we either learn to behave, and shut up, or --  Or you don't go home...or you go home like that.
Better finish up your oatmeal. Want to look sane for the doctors. Then I want to hear what they nailed you for.
Clark...Sanford Clark.
Paperwork's come through. You'll be deported back to Canada day after tomorrow. The police there will to decide what to do with you next. I hope your stay here has convinced you not to try crossing the border illegally in future.
Wait, I...I want to talk to the officer who brought me in.
I'm sure he has far more important things to do than --
Please.   It's important.
He's off-duty until tomorrow, but... I'll see what I can do. No promises.
How far you going?
Vancouver.
Hop in.
Don't worry about that, pal. Just a little insurance. A couple of guys tried to hijack my truck a few years ago so they could run booze over the border. You can't be too safe, you know?
Yeah, I surely do.
Mrs. Collins...Dr. Jonathan Steele. Please, have a seat.
I hope your stay has been comfortable so far.
Fine.   Thank you.
Really? I'd think it would be quite difficult at first.
 Well, it was. Difficult, I mean. But comfortable.
I see they took a blood test.
Wasserman Test. To check for syphilis. Apparently it can affect the mind.
The idea that someone thinks you should be checked for syphilis...did that upset you?
No. Not at all. I'm sure it's... standard procedure.
Yes. Exactly. Standard procedure. We have to cover all bases, and --
 But...at the same time...I imagine that it would be...would probably be upsetting to...some people that someone else might...suspect that of them.  However inappropriate that might be.
According to your file, you believe the police have substituted a fake boy for your son. Is that true?
I didn't say they substituted a fake boy, just...not the right boy.  They brought back the wrong boy. Not my son. He's still missing.
That's strange...you see, I have here a newspaper article with a photo of you at the train station, welcoming your son home. That is you in the photo, isn't it? CHRISTINE Yes.
So at first he was your son, but now he's not your son.  Has this been going on for a long time? People...changing, becoming something other than what they are?
People don't change, doctor.
You don't think people change?
That's not what I --
And the police...they're not out to persecute you?
No.    Of course not.
The police are here to protect us.
That's right.
That's odd, because according to the head nurse, when you were admitted you accused the police of conspiring to do this deliberately, to punish you. So either she and the interns are also conspiring against you...or you're changing your story.  Do you often have trouble telling reality from fantasy, Mrs. Collins?
I'm sorry to bring you out in this weather, detective, but the boy has been quite insistent.
It's all right, I'll just see what he has to say so I can go home and get dry. Where is he?
Room seven.
It's raining cats, dogs and democrats out there, so this better be worth it.
Well?
Look, I -- this isn't easy, okay?
Nothing is.
My cousin's Gordon Northcott. He owns the ranch where you found me. He let me live there in exchange for watching the place when he was gone, doing chores, stuff like that. Said I could stay on as long as I wanted to. I figured that also meant I could leave whenever I wanted to, but he wouldn't let me.
Are you saying he held you prisoner?  Bull. When I got to the ranch you were running around free as a jaybird. Could've left any time you wanted. So what's this, some kind of story to cover why you were in the country illegally?
No...no, it's nothing like that.
Because I don't have time for --
Listen to me, please.    He said --
What?   What did he --
He said that if I tried to leave, he'd kill me! 
You don't understand, you don't know what he's like, what he...what we did...what he made me do.
Okay, lets start at the beginning. What did he make you do?
Him and me...me and Gordon, we...  ...we killed some kids.
I didn't mean to, I swear...he made me help him, said if I didn't he'd kill me, too. Please, you gotta help me...I'm scared...I don't want to go to Hell for killing kids.
What kids?
I don't know...I never knew their names.
How many kids? SANFORD All together?
About...twenty, I guess.
You're lying.
No, it's true, I swear!
Twenty kids.
Yeah...thereabouts...I kinda stopped counting after a while, and Gordon said one or two might've gotten away, but --
Nobody can just up and kill twenty kids --
We did...yeah, we did that....
How?
Most times we'd bring back just one or two...sometimes as many as three.
I always knew when he was getting ready 'cause he'd go through the car and clean it up, make sure the tires were good, the engine...he was always afraid something'd break down and we'd be caught.
Time to go.
We'd go a different direction every time, never hit the same part of town twice. Sometimes we'd go for hours, just driving around, until we found somebody.
He'd use all kinds of different stories. Sometimes he'd say he had free tickets for the circus, or he was looking for a lost dog...that one worked real good. Other days --
There you are, we've been looking for you like mad.
You have?
Sure thing. Your folks, they got in an accident. They sent us to find you. They're hurt real bad. The police took 'em to the hospital, but they didn't have time to come find you, so we said we'd do it. Now come on, hurry...we gotta get to the hospital, see your folks.
A lot of kids won't get in a car alone with a stranger, but when he's got a kid there with him, that made it easier.  They'd look to me, and figure if I was safe, they would be too. That's why he needed me, see? SANFORD It's okay.     Come on in.
Every time they got in the truck, it was like I wanted to die.
Good boy! Now hold on, it's a long drive and we gotta fly.
Then, as soon as we got back to the ranch...they went in the coop.
Some days he'd do 'em right off. Other days, he'd wait, pick up a few more, keep 'em in the coop until he had like four or five, 'cause --  -- 'cause he liked to hear 'em scream all at once. Like they were some kinda chorus. And then....
...and then....
Sometimes...sometimes he'd leave one or two of 'em alive...barely anyway...and tell me...finish 'em. Finish 'em...or I'll finish you.  And I did...I did...oh god...oh, sweet Jesus...I killed 'em...I killed 'em...I killed 'em....
These...uhm...these kids...do you think...if you saw them again, do you think you'd recognize them?  Just a second.
I haven't updated these in a while, but still, it should be....  Just go through...and if you see any faces you recognize, put it on the table.
...shit.... The name on the back of the photo is WALTER COLLINS.
He's lying.
Have you gone soft in the head, Les?
Sir, I --
He's playing you! He knows he's in trouble, so he's come up with some cock and bull story about how he was forced to stay in the country --
With all due respect, sir, I don't think so. You didn't see him, the kid's scared half out of his mind --
He picked the Collins kid! We found him, remember? Haven't you been reading the papers?  Or maybe you have, is that it?
Sir, if you'd just listen --
I'm sorry, captain, but he's here again...that reverend, Briegleb. He's asking about Christine Collins.
Tell the sonofabitch to get the hell off police property before I have him arrested for disturbing the peace.
I tried. He said he's not leaving... him, or his friends.
What the hell...?
Jesus jumped down....
Ybarra? Listen. You're not to do anything except come back here.
Sir, department policy requires that all allegations of homicide have to be investigated. And these are kids, for chrissakes --
Departmental policy is what I say it is, you got that? Now I'm ordering you to get your ass back here with that kid, you got that? You bring him here and you talk to no one, got it? Nobody!
All right, let's go.
Are you Captain Jones?
I am. BRIEGLEB What the hell have you done with Christine Collins? Don't try and lie your way out of it. I talked to several neighbors who saw her being driven off in a police car.
Mrs. Collins has been placed in protective custody following a mental breakdown.
A what?!
Her statements and behavior have been found to be consistent with a delusional state of mind that could make her a danger to herself or others. In the public interest, we are looking after her son while she gets the help she clearly needs.
Where?
Sorry, we're withholding that information to respect the privacy of the family. But I can assure you that she's getting the best treatment available. That's all.
Go on.   Move up.
What for? ORDERLY Medication.
What kind of medication?
The kind that's good for you.    Help you relax.
I don't want to relax...I'm fine, and I won't take something unless I know what it is!
Orderly --
Just listen --
-- we can force-feed it to you if that's what you want.
Doctor...Doctor Steele --
I heard.
I don't know what's going on, but I'm not taking anything until --
I understand. Come with me.
I don't have anything wrong with me that I should have to take medication.
There's nothing wrong with you.
That's right.
You're fine.
Yes.
Then you shouldn't have any trouble signing this.
By signing, you certify that you were wrong when you stated the boy returned by the police was not your son. It further stipulates that the police acted properly in sending you here for observation and absolves them of all responsibility for --
I won't sign it.
Then your condition is not improved.  Sign it, and you can be out of here first thing tomorrow.
I won't sign it!
I was not wrong! That boy is not my son! And I am not going to stop telling the truth about this! And you're not going to stop me, and the police aren't going to stop me --
Mrs. Collins, you're becoming agitated.
-- I will tear down the walls of this place with my bare hands if I have to, but one way or another -- STEELE Orderly!
The patient is disturbed, hyperactive and is threatening the staff. See to it she is properly sedated.
No!
No, I won't let you!     Someone, please, help me!
Stay out of this! This is none of your business!  This is police business! You'll stay out of it if you know what's good for you!
You'd think you had enough trouble with the law just being a whore, wouldn't you?
Attacking a staff member. Room eighteen. Electro-convulsive therapy.
Carol!   No, leave her alone!    What're you --
Carol....!
It's all right, I'll take it from here.
But --
We need him for questioning.   Come on....
You two...you've just been requisitioned for backup. I'll explain on the way.
You shouldn't have done that.
 Wanted...to. Felt...good.
I lost...two babies...to back alley doctors...no choice....  Never had...the chance...to fight for them. You do. Don't stop.
I won't...I won't.
Fuck them...and the horse...they rode in on.
That's hardly appropriate language for a lady, now is it?
Hell, yeah...there are times...that's exactly the right thing to say.
And when's that?
When you've got...nothing left to lose.
All clear.
All right.     Show me.
This it?   You're sure?
Dig.  You put 'em in the ground, you can take 'em out of the ground. Go on.
Holy god....
Call it in...get the coroner and every officer in a twenty mile radius here inside the hour. 
Then put out an APB on Gordon Stewart Northcott, the info is in my car. Go on....
You can stop now, son.  You can stop now. It's over. We can take it from here. It's over.
Privacy, please.
I see you've still been refusing medication, requiring force-feeding. I see they switched to a rubber tube. I hear that can quite uncomfortable.
Six days, Mrs. Collins, and no progress. We may have to go to more...strenuous therapies.  Unless you're willing to prove you're doing better...by signing this.
Fuck you....and the horse...you rode in on.
Room eighteen.
I WANT TO TALK TO SOMEBODY IN CHARGE! RIGHT NOW!
Sir, please --
WHO'S IN CHARGE HERE!
I'm head doctor on duty.   What's the problem?
You the doctor who's got Christine Collins locked up in here? Intercut with:
Sorry, we don't discuss our cases with anyone other than family --
You'll damned well discuss this one with me!
Sir --
Read it!   Read it, damn you!
The doctor wants to see you.
Mrs. Collins.
One last time. Are you, or are you not, prepared to sign that letter?
No.
You're free to go.
...what?
Your clothes are in the next room. You can change there.
Next door.
That's right.  See to it.
Christ....
You're getting out?
I am out.
How --
I don't know...but I couldn't go without saying goodbye --
Christine, don't be stupid, get out of here fast in case they change their mind.
I will...but I want you to know: once I have my boy back, I'm coming 
back here...for you, and the others. This is wrong, and we can stop it --
You are crazy.
Watch me.
You give me every piece of paper you've got on this case, you hear me? Every piece!
When does she come down?
Hurricane hits West Palm Beach! Babe Ruth hits 53rd home run! Kids found murdered in Riverside!
Biggest Crime in Los Angeles History!  Collins Boy Assumed Dead on Ranch!
Mrs. Collins...Christine...!
No...god...no....
I'm sorry...I didn't want you to find out like this...I'm sorry...I'm sorry....
The chief will see you now.
I don't know if you're aware of it, Captain, but I have an exceptionally good vocabulary. I'm a terror at Scrabble, crossword puzzles, but even I'm in awe of the vocabulary that the press and the city council have been exercising in reference to this department courtesy of the Christine Collins...incident.  Incompetent. Cowardly. Bullying. Reprehensible. Mendacious and invidious...those two courtesy of that prick Gustav Briegleb. Bonus words in Scrabble, both of them. Especially invidious. Hard to work that one into a conversation. But he managed it, all right.
Sir, I --
The key, of course, is the context in which words like this get used. You have to do that in scrabble, you know, when somebody challenges a word...show how it's used in a sentence. So "incompetent," as in --  "A department so incompetent that they never realized that up to twenty children were being kidnapped and murdered under their very noses."  And here: "So incompetent that they insisted they knew better than a mother the identity of her own child, forced him upon her, and then incarcerated her when she confronted them with evidence of their own reprehensible behavior." That was a two-fer. Incompetent and reprehensible in the same sentence. Guy must be a real terror at crossword puzzles.
Captain, your handling of the Collins case has exposed this department to public ridicule. There is even the potential for civil and criminal liability. JONES Sir, nobody could have known what was going on up at that ranch. Not us, not the Sheriff's Department, the Marshall's Office...as for the Collins woman....  I'm still not convinced that her kid is among the victims up in Wineville.
No?
No, sir. 
There were four other photos of missing boys that looked a lot like him...this Clark kid could have been mistaken.
Maybe he was...which raises the obvious question: so what?
Sir?
The Mayor wants this to go away. I want this to go away. The way you do that is to stop insisting that Walter Collins was not among those kids killed up at that goddamned ranch. Because if the boy you brought back isn't Walter Collins, and he's not dead up at that ranch, then where the hell is he? People will want to know why we haven't found him. Why we aren't we doing our job.  But if, on the other hand, he is, or could be among those poor boys killed up in Wineville...then the inquiries stop. It's a momentary embarrassment that you'll have to live with...but better a short inconvenience than a lingering problem, wouldn't you say, Captain? Jones doesn't like it, but he swallows his pride.   Nods.
Yes, sir.
The boy's been gone for nearly a year. If he was going to be found, it would've happened by now. Whether he was up at that ranch or not, the truth is he probably is dead somewhere. Better his mother accepts that now rather than later, don't you think?
Yes, sir.
Good.    That'll be all, Captain.
Sir, there's talk of an investigation by the police commission.
Let me worry about the commission. But it wouldn't hurt to find out just who the fuck that kid is you brought back from De Kalb and why he did this, because the press bought into his bullshit same as we did. That we were all taken in by the scheming little bastard may help take some of the sting off this.
My boys are working on it now, sir.
I want a glass of water.
Tough.
 "Tough!"
What's your name?
Walter Collins.
Walter Collins is dead.
 I didn't do it.
Look, let me explain something to you. Because of your lies, you've ruined a woman's life embarrassed the police department, and got the whole city up in arms over this.
Got a lot done, didn't I?
All right, if that's how you want it, then I guess we're done here.  Tell County Jail we're remanding him for trial.
Wait...what's remanding?    What trial?
I told you, the real Walter Collins was murdered.
So? I didn't do anything! I wasn't even here when it happened!
By pretending to be Walter Collins, you're interfering in a police investigation of a kidnapping and murder. We can try you as an accomplice to murder after the fact.  Too bad. County Jail is a lot worse than juvenile hall or a foster home. A lot worse.
You can't do that...I'm just a kid!
Sanford Clark is a kid, too. Fifteen. But he's going to jail. All murderers and their accomplices go to jail. Everyone knows that.  Get him out of here. It's out of my hands now.
Wait!   I don't want to go to jail.
Prove it.
Arthur Hutchins.
The boy's real name is Arthur Hutchins Junior, age twelve, a runaway from Cedar Rapids, Iowa.
Did you check the wire services?
Checks out. The report was filed by his divorced mother, who lives in Clinton, Iowa with the boy's grandmother. Apparently he didn't like living with the old lady, she didn't let him get away with the stuff he usually got away with, and one day...he up and left. JONES What about the man he showed up with at the diner?
Just some drifter. The boy was hungry, ran into this guy who said he knew how to get some food and not have to pay for it. Only when they finished, he left the kid behind while he cut out. When the police picked him up, they started going through the wire reports about missing kids --
And he overheard them say the name Walter Collins.
Bingo.
But why that one? I mean, of all the police departments he could've screwed up, why Los Angeles?
I asked him the same question.
I...I knew that Los Angeles was where they made the Tom Mix movies. I figured maybe I could meet Tom Mix. Maybe he'd even let me ride his horse.  His horse is named Blue. Did you
How are you feeling?
A little better, thanks. The sleep helped. Anything new outside?
Nothing that can't wait until you're stronger. The police still have a car parked outside. They want to know what your next move is.
I want to go home.
And then?
I've been giving that a great deal of thought ever since I got out of that...place. All those women, and what they did about Walter....  They're going to just keep on doing it, aren't they? Nothing's going to change...unless we make it change.
I used to tell Walter, "Never start a fight...but always finish it." I didn't start this fight...but by god I'm going to finish it.
It's dangerous, and you've already been through a great deal, Mrs. Collins. Right now you're sufficiently high-profile that the police will hesitate to come after you out in the open...but if they see their position threatened, that could change quickly.  Your life could be in danger.
"Always finish it. Always."
Just a minute....
Hi, sis.
Gordon...I didn't know you were back in town.
Got in a couple of days ago, figured I'd surprise you. That okay?
Yes...yes, of course. Come on in.
Where's that little niece of mine?
She...went into town. Should be back this evening. Bob's here --
Good. Need to talk to him about staying on for a few days.
Staying --
Listen, can I use your bathroom? It's been a long ride and I could use a shower.
Of course.
Is that --  Go next door. I'll call the police. Hurry.
Go around the other side!    Cut him off!
Go on!   Get the bastard!
Screw this...I'm too old for this fightin' shit....
YOU...ARE UNDER...ARREST!
Mrs. Collins, I want you to meet a friend of mine, Mr. Hahn.
Hello. HAHN Mrs. Collins. My deepest condolences on your loss.
Can we come in?
Yes...of course.
Mr. Hahn, was it?
Yes.
I appreciate the sentiment, but so far they still haven't positively identified any of the...remains... as Walter's.
But he was identified, was he not?
Yes, but...I guess I still can't accept it. It doesn't feel real to me.
It never does. I lost a daughter to polio five years ago. There's not a day goes by I don't think, I should mention this to Claudine... then I remember she's not here.
I'm sorry.     Please, sit.
I've been on the phone all day with the appointment secretary for the police commission. They won't let me testify at the hearing, or call witnesses. They say it's not necessary.
I know. My sources tell me the police commission is going to come out with a report that whitewashes the whole thing. They're going to say that Jones and the rest of the LAPD did absolutely nothing wrong, that the real blame is with the kid...and with you, for being difficult and forcing them to put you away for your own safety.
Then we'll just have to hire a lawyer...bring a civil suit and try to get the City Council to call for a hearing by the Welfare Board.
Jut one problem. 
Not one lawyer outside this room was willing to take on the Police Department. Too risky, they said. So finally I went to the very best attorney in town, a man who's sued the city four times and won. Unfortunately, we could never afford to hire him.
 I see....
Which is why I'm doing this pro bono.  It would be my honor to defend your honor, Mrs. Collins. In my fifteen years as a lawyer, I have never seen anyone fight as long or as hard as you have, in what is so clearly in the cause of justice.
Now I want you to tell Mr. Hahn here the whole story, from end to end, leave nothing out, he'll need it all if he's going to get the City Council involved.
Of course. One thing, though. A personal favor. When we've finished here today, could you spare a few minutes to come with me downtown. HAHN Of course.     Where downtown?
Yes?   May I --
My name is S. S. 
Hahn, and I have a court order for the immediate release of all women being detained in this institution under the designation Code Twelve pending a formal inquiry into the reasons for their detainment.
I'm sorry, but the doctor in charge won't be in until tomorrow morning and --
Let me be clearer. Either you open those doors and produce the people named in that court order, or you will find yourself on the other side of those bars...without a key.
I knew you'd come...I knew you'd come back...I knew you'd come....
It's all right...everything's going to be all right now....
Mr. Northcott, any comment on your arrest?
I'm feeling fine. 
I've been on a little vacation, as some of you know. It was a pleasant vacation, and the police have certainly provided me with a lot of amusement.
How did you avoid capture?
Well, I didn't, did I? Didn't know anyone wanted me until just recently. Didn't even try. My luggage still has my initials on it.
Did you know why the police were after you?
No, but I figured it would be best if I stayed out of it.
Anything to say to the parents of the children you murdered?
No comment.
So was this.
Subpoenas, requests for depositions, interrogatories...all courtesy of Mr. Hahn and his new client, Christine Collins. 
You don't have to look them over too closely, Chief, your own copies should be arriving any time now.  The City Council has also agreed to look into this, starting immediately.
Goddamnit....
I thought this was supposed to go away. This is an election year, I can't afford this kind of press.
It is going away, sir.   I instructed Captain Jones --
I'm afraid falling on his sword and saying he made a mistake isn't going to be good enough, Chief. If we take him out of the picture for a while, it might help calm things down until the hearing's finished.  There are several people on the council who are planning to run against me, and they'd love to accuse me of allowing a renegade police force to operate with impunity.
Our friends in the press are having a field day with this mess. I'm getting five hundred phone calls, letters and telegrams a day demanding to know what the hell is going on at City Hall that we allow our police force to brutalize women and misplace children. Christ, all this picture needs now is for somebody to kick a puppy for the cameras.  This is a train, Chief, and we need to either get in front of it, or be run over by it.
Mayor Cryer...I stand by my men. You know that.
I do. And you know where I stand. So the question is..are we going to stand together...or hang together?
Gentlemen...gentlemen, please. As Mayor of Los Angeles, it is my duty to preserve the peace in our city, which has been disrupted by recent events in the case of Christine Collins. As a result, we have decided that Captain J. J. Jones of the Lincoln Heights Division is to be suspended from active duty, effective immediately.
What's the charge, Chief?
The charge is conduct unbecoming an officer, and using improper and abusive language toward Mrs. Collins. It further charges that he exceeded his authority as a police officer by incarcerating Mrs. Collins on the alleged charge of insanity without sufficient cause.
Mayor Cryer, are you aware that the City Council has said it plans to open its own investigation into the Collins case?
I've heard this, yes. But since one of the main purposes of such a hearing by the City Council would be to suspend Captain Jones, and since that action has now been taken, the question is moot.
Which makes it look like the only reason Jones is being suspended is to head off the City Council 
investigation. Are you concerned that an outside investigation might go uncomfortably high up the food chain?
I won't even dignify that question with a response. Good day.
Cheer up, Chief. That little show should take the wind out of their sails. By Monday, this issue will be as cold as yesterday's fish. Never underestimate the public's lack of attention and potential for apathy. Old news is dead news, you'll see.
Reverend, what --
Sorry to barge in so late, Mrs. Collins, but it took me a while to find the right people for the right job. These three gentlemen are members of my congregation who, before coming to the Lord, had lived lives of brutality, vice and crime. Now they are pledged to doing god's work...and if this isn't it, I don't know what is.
I don't understand.
People who bring charges against the police have a habit of 
disappearing right before the trial. I'm a big believer in the power of prayer, Mrs. Collins...but a little backup from time to time never hurts.
I see...well, I...thank you.   Can I get you anything?
Since we don't plan on sleeping, coffee would be lovely.
Traffic's getting heavy.   We'll go up Spring.
Hold on.
Start walking. Quickly.
Almost there. Just a few more blocks.
Where is all this traffic's coming from...? Briegleb glances back. The police car has popped its doors, and two trench-coated officers are getting out. Christine stops a man passing in the opposite direction.
Excuse me, can you tell me what the problem is up ahead?
Didn't you hear? It's the biggest protest I've ever seen.
Protest?
Yeah...over that Collins broad, if you can believe that.
He didn't mean...he couldn't mean --
I don't know...all I know is that I think I just stopped breathing....
Oh...my....
The Lord works in mysterious ways, Mrs. Collins. He looks behind them, to where the police have stopped. There's no way in hell they can make a move in the face of something as big as t his. Briegleb smiles.
Boy howdy, does He ever.   Come on.
Ladies and Gentlemen...can I have your attention, please....
There are nearly one thousand people gathered in this chamber, more than have ever been in this room before.
 I therefore ask you to refrain from demonstrations of any kind. We're all here because we want to find out the real facts in this case, and everybody is going to be heard if we have to sit here for a week.
Mr. Thorpe, I don't see any other members of the Police Commission.
That's odd...we specifically stipulated that we would begin our hearings with testimony from the police department. Are there any representatives of the Police Commission in the room?  Is Chief Davis here?  Is Captain Jones here? Is there anyone here representing the police?
Mr. Chairman...Richard Thomas, The Evening Herald. Both the Police Chief and Captain Jones are in San Pedro for a police inspection at a station there. 
Only reason I know is we have a couple of our boys out covering the thing.
Are you telling me they directly violated the wishes of the City Council? That they refused to attend a vital hearing so they could conduct a routine inspection in San Pedro? And what the hell is Jones doing at an inspection after being suspended?  I hate to call a recess before we've even started, but I think a few phone calls are in order. So we'll take a half hour break, then continue with the witnesses who have appeared here today. But let it be known that Captain Jones and Police Chief Davis will be subpoenaed and required to appear here tomorrow morning.
Mrs. Collins, could you come across the street with me for just a moment?
But...shouldn't we --
I think there's something you should see. Puzzled, curious, Christine gets up and exits with Hahn.
-- the police decided it was best to keep this off the main docket in order to avoid exactly the sort of chaos we have across the street.
Mrs. Collins? I'm Leanne Clay, this is my husband, John...I just wanted to pass on my sympathies. What we went through, waiting to hear anything about our son David, was bad enough, and now this....  But there was no call for what the police did to you...no call at all.
All rise.
Hey...I saw you in the papers. You got a lot of moxie, standing up to the police like that.
Gordon Stewart Northcott, you have been charged with three counts of murder in the first degree, with an additional seventeen counts under review by the district attorney's office. How do you plea?
Not guilty, your honor.
In light of the defendant's penchant for international travel, no bail will be set. This court will receive preliminary motions by tomorrow morning, with a trial date to be set for the earliest opening on the court's calendar.  The defendant is remanded into custody. Bailiff....
The boy, Walter Collins, was reported as missing on March 10, 1928.
We then instituted a nationwide search. On July 10, we received a cable indicating that a boy matching his description had been found in De Kalb, Illinois. Upon questioning, he admitted to being Walter Collins, and we made arrangements to transport him back to California.
Where Mrs. Collins told you the boy was not her son.
Yes. She denied his identity in spite of all evidence pointing to the contrary.
But as subsequent events have demonstrated, she was correct. So what prompted you to send her for psychological evaluation?
Whether or not this was in fact the correct boy was not relevant to my decision. Throughout this period, she acted strangely. She was often cool, aloof and unemotional, especially when presented with the boy we located in De Kalb, and in our subsequent conversations. It was because of her disturbing behavior that I submitted her for observation to the psychopathic ward of Los Angeles County General Hospital.
Just like that. You snap your fingers and an innocent woman is thrown into the psycho ward.
She wasn't --
Every home in this state is in grave danger when a Police Captain can take a woman into his office and, five minutes later, have her thrown into the psychopathic ward on his own authority!
 She wasn't --
What was that, Captain?
She wasn't thrown.     She was... escorted.
Escorted, thrown, the verb doesn't matter, Captain. What does matter is that her incarceration was ordered without a warrant.
I am holding a carbon copy of the affidavit of insanity that was issued in the case of the State of California vs. Christine Collins. Who signed the affidavit?
I did.
And what is the date on this document?
September 12th.
But Mrs. Collins was incarcerated on September 6th.
The form is backdated.
Yes, so it would appear. The bottom of the page is reserved for recording where and when the warrant was served. But it has not been filled in. May I assume from this that the warrant was never served?
That's correct. There was no need to serve the warrant since she was at that time already in custody.
Let me see if I have this straight. A woman was thrown into the psychopathic ward without a warrant, because no warrant existed, and when it was finally written six days later, there was no need to sign it or go to a judge because 
she was already in the asylum!      Is this correct, Captain?
Technically...yes.
Extraordinary steps were necessary because we were dealing with an extraordinary situation! Is it our fault that we were being deceived by the boy who claimed to be Walter Collins? No. In light of his claims and her behavior, who wouldn't begin to wonder if there was something wrong with her?
Because she questioned you.
Because she wouldn't listen, because she insisted on being obstinate and taking matters into her own hands best left to qualified officers, because --
Because she was fighting for the life of her son! A boy who may have still been alive while you were wasting valuable time denying you had done anything wrong!
And in the end, that's what happened, isn't it? At some point, while all this was going on, Walter Collins died along with as many as nineteen other youths on the Northcott Ranch in Wineville. Is that correct, Captain?
Yes.   It is.
No further questions.
-- so after much effort, we were able to identify this boy, who was has been responsible for so much recent trouble, as Arthur Hutchins of Cedar Rapids, Iowa. Between this, and the arrest of the man suspected of murdering the real Walter Collins, we have cleared up two of the biggest mysteries in the history of Los Angeles.  I hope that you gentlemen of the press will give as much space to the good things we do as the mistakes that are made on rare occasions.
Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the boy's real mother, Mrs. Janet Hutchins.
I hope he hasn't been too much trouble for you.
Oh, no, not at all....
Mrs. Hutchins...Mrs. Collins, the woman he was staying with, wanted him to have these. They're the clothes she let him wear.
Well, thank you. Isn't that nice, Arthur? Tell the nice officer thank you.
I don't want 'em! Give 'em to somebody else!
Precocious little fellow, isn't he?
It's not my fault! It was the police! They said I was Walter Collins, not me! It wasn't my idea!
There...blame the police for your own mistakes. We've seen a lot of that lately, haven't we?
I'm up here, Reverend.
When Walter was...when he was here, I'd walk past his bedroom when he was asleep, and even if I couldn't see him, or hear him, I could...feel him in here.
Mothers and their children are connected in amazing ways. My uncle joined the army during the big war, and the day he died, before we ever heard a word about it, my grandmother woke up in the middle of the night and said, "Bobby's gone." She just...knew.
That's why I don't think Walter is dead. I can still feel him, in this room.
Mrs. Collins --
I know what the police said. But the remains...what they found on that ranch is so...most of it can't even be properly identified. What if that boy made a mistake when he picked Walter's picture?
I understand that you don't want to accept this. What mother does? But you have to let go...and start over. For yourself. He'd want you to move on.
Maybe. And maybe he'd want me to keep looking. Maybe he's waiting for me, somewhere.
He is, Christine. 
In that place where we will all be reunited with our loved ones someday. And on that day, he will know, front to back, end to end, heart and soul... that you did everything you could, Christine. Everything.
We should go.
This meeting will now come to order.
This Committee has now heard all of the testimony, and in light of the facts presented, issues the following statement.
Mr. Foreman, has the jury reached a verdict?
We have, your honor.
While the City Council has no power to directly remove commissioners or 
the employees who serve under them, it nevertheless can perform the function of making recommendations. This committee therefore reports and recommends:  First, that the majority members of the Police Commission deserve the severest condemnation for their decision to whitewash the Collins case.
Bailiff, will you bring me the verdict of the jury?
Second, we recommend that the suspension of Captain Jones be made permanent.
Will the defendant please rise?
Third, that steps be taken to investigate a change in the prevailing laws and procedures by 
which a citizen of this city can be subjected to incarceration in the county's mental facilities.  Finally, restoration of public confidence in the police department can only be achieved by the removal of its chief of police, and this committee so recommends.  This hearing is concluded.
You may read the verdict.
We the jury find the defendant, Gordon Stewart Northcott...guilty on all counts of murder in the first degree.
Does the defendant wish to make a statement before judgment is passed?
Yeah, I want to make a statement. I want to make it real clear that I never once got a fair shake from you, your "honor," or this court. The only one of you here worth a goddamn is her --  -- 'cause she's the only one never badmouthed me to the press. She understands what it is when the police frame you for something you didn't do and throw you in the hole. Isn't that right?
I want you to know, Mrs. Collins, I never killed your boy. I --
That's enough! Counsel, you will get control of your client or I will have him bound and gagged.
Gordon Stewart Northcott, it is the judgment of this court that you will be conveyed to San Quentin Prison, where you will be held in solitary confinement for a period of two years, until October 2nd, 1930. On that date, you are to be hanged by the neck until dead. May god have mercy on your soul.
-- no, as I said after the hearing, I have every intention of finishing my term as Chief of the Los Angeles Police Department. I will not resign. I will fight to the finish. The Collins case was merely an excuse for certain politicians who have been trying to have me removed for some time, and I --
-- anyway, I remain confident that the Mayor's office will stand firmly behind me. That's all.
Ten minute break?
Of course.
You know...one of these days you might consider actually taking one of these ten minute breaks. Might be good for you.
We'll see.     Thanks, Ben.
Yes, hello, this is Christine Collins, we spoke yesterday about my son...fine, thank you. I was wondering if you'd had a chance to go through the file on runaways in your area in case anyone resembling Walter had --  I see. No, thank you, I appreciate the information. Would it be all right if I called you again, in a month or so? Thank you. Goodbye.
Mrs. Collins.
Oh, hello, I was just --
I know. That's...why I wanted to see you.
It's about Walter. We had...well, we received a very strange telegram.
From who?
Gordon Northcott.   He's...he's asked to see you.
Why?
He said he knows you're still looking for your son, and before he dies --  He says that he lied when he testified that he didn't kill Walter. He's willing to finally admit that he did it. He says that if you come up to see him, in person...he'll tell you the truth, to your face...so that you can get on with your life and have some peace.
As you know, he's set to be executed the day after tomorrow at San Quentin, so....  You don't have a lot of time.
Took me most of the morning to make all the arrangements. Turns out you're the first woman in thirty years the state has allowed to visit a serial killer on the night of his execution.
I can stay in the room if you want, ma'am.
No, I'm...sure I'll be fine.
All right...I'll be right outside the door if you need anything.  Twenty minutes.
Don't suppose you've got a cigarette?
No, I don't smoke.
That's where they do it, you know. That building right over there.
That's where they do what?
The hangings. Ten o'clock tonight, I get to see what's inside. I hear there's thirteen steps going up to the gallows...'cause thirteen is unlucky. Helps make sure you're gonna go to hell when you die. But I got 'em beat. I outsmarted 'em.
They're gonna let me have whatever I want for dinner. Got a steak coming, with spinach, mashed potatoes and green beans. I always wondered why they did that whole last meal thing. One of the other guys on Death Row said when you take the drop, you foul yourself, and everything you ate...comes out the other end. So maybe that's why they make sure you got something in you when it happens. They like knowing you fouled yourself on the way to --
Sure you don't got a cigarette?
The warden, Clinton Duffy, he's a good guy. He's writing a book about all the death sentences he's carried out in this place. Says it's called "Eighty-Eight Men and Two Women." Beats my record all to hell.
Mr. Northcott...you asked me to come to see you. You said if I did, you would tell me the truth about my son. Well, I'm here.
Yeah...yeah, you are. But see, the thing is, I didn't think you'd really come, and now --
Now what?
I didn't expect....  I don't want to see you.
What?
I can't do this...I can't talk to you...not today, not tonight, not with what they're going to do to me. It's one thing to send a telegram, that's easy, but right now, right here, in person, I --  I can't tell you what you want to hear, Mrs. Collins. I can't, I can't --
Why not?
Because I don't want to die with a lie on my lips!
I did my penance, I asked God to forgive me for my sins...and I've been good, ever since...if I commit a sin now, if I lie now...I'm out of time, I can't be forgiven again... I don't want to go to hell --
Mr. Northcott...look at me.  Look at me.
Did you...kill...my son?
Get away from me...I don't know anything about it!
Mr. Northcott --
I'm innocent!  Guard! Guard!
No, wait, please --
It's okay, ma'am, they always get a little nuts the day of.
Did you kill him? Did you kill my son?
Mr. Northcott...Mr. Northcott!
Gordon Stewart Northcott, you have been found guilty of murder, the penalty for which is death by hanging. There have been no stays or reprieves, therefore the execution will go forward as stipulated under the laws of the State of California. Do you have any last words?
No...nothing.  I kept clean after I confessed, reverend...just like I said I would.
Will it...will it hurt?  Please...not so fast...don't make me walk so fast!
Thirteen steps...thirteen steps... but I didn't touch all of 'em, you bastards...I didn't touch all of 'em!
A prayer! Please, somebody, say a prayer for me!
Silent night...holy night...all is calm...all is bright...round yon virgin mother and child...holy infant so tender and mild --
Hey, Chris...we're having an Oscar party tonight at my apartment, you want to come? CHRISTINE I can't...I've got a million forms to fill out --
C'mon, please, they can wait --
Sandy, you guys blew out the phone lines between here and Baltimore, someone has to clean up the mess, and that's me. Besides, I've got a radio right here, I can follow the whole thing.
You're sure?
Positive.    Go on, have fun.
I said I can't go --
Are you sure?
I'm meeting some friends for dinner at Musso and Frank's on Hollywood. They're going to pipe the Oscar ceremony through to the restaurant. Should be quite a night. I'd love it if you'd come.
Ben, that's very sweet, and I wish I could...but I really need to stay and finish this.
Ben...? I put down two dollars on "It Happened One Night" for best picture. Seems I'm the only one here who thinks it has a chance against "Cleopatra." If I win, how about we have dinner tomorrow night to celebrate? MR. HARRIS You've got a deal, Christine.   Good night.
'Night.
How about I call you if you win?
I'll be here.
Over-rated....
Clark Gable, Claudette Colbert.   I rest my case.
 I knew it...I knew it!   I told you so!
Ben, it looks like dinner is on me, I --
Yes, this is she. Mrs. Clay? No, of course I remember you, how are you? Is everything --
When? Where did they --  No, of course...I'll be right there.
I wanted to go to him right off, but they said it was important to talk to him alone first.
Are they sure it's --
They're sure, but more important, I'm sure.  It's my boy, all right...it's David. He's alive, Christine. They found him up in Hysperia.
But how --
All right, so after you got into the car, what happened next?
They drove me around for a long time, then we ended up at this ranch --
SHUT UP!  I'll see you boys later....
Were there other boys present?
Yeah...six, I think. It was a long time ago.
Did you speak to them? Do you remember any of their names?
Yeah...two of them were brothers, I think their last name was Winslow, something like that. The oldest was Jeffrey, I think he was around eleven....  ...and Walter.
Walter.
Yeah.
Do you remember his last name?
Collins.
So if you only remember some of the names of the rest, how come you remember his full name?
Because of what happened.
Walter and Jeffrey were talking when everybody else was screaming. They were scared, same as the rest of us, but they weren't scared stupid. They kept checking around until they found a part of the coop where the chicken wire was all messed up.
They figured we might be able to yank the chicken wire and bring down the corner, maybe make enough room to get out of there and run... but it would make an awful lot of noise and if it wasn't wide enough, we'd be stuck. It might even bring the whole place down.
We gotta try it!
We have to get out of here!
I'm not. I'm not afraid of anything.  Don't you want to go home? Don't you want to see your mom again?
Anybody else?
Okay. Anybody who doesn't want to come, get over at that end in case this comes down.
When we get out, we split up, go in different directions, they can't catch all of us. Ready? They nod, and get into position, each taking a part of the wire framework.
Pull!
Go!
Help!
Hurry!
And that's the last you saw of him?
That's the last I saw of any of 'em.
So you don't know if either of the other two were captured?
No. All I know is, if he hadn't come back for me...I don't think I ever would've gotten out of there.
What happened after that?
I hid in the woods for two days, too scared to move, because I was sure they'd find me. I finally started walking, but every time a car came up I was afraid it was them. So I kept off the main roads until I saw a train stopped at a crossing, and I jumped in.
Why didn't you tell anyone what had happened?
I was afraid! I thought they'd come after me, or my folks...so I didn't tell anybody. I was on my own until I got a free meal from this lady, Mrs. Lansing. I told her I was an orphan, on my own. She said I could stay on, and...I did.  Every night, I'd wake up, thinking they were right outside my window. Then I heard the police talking on the radio about what happened at the ranch, and I thought, for sure I can't go back now.
Why not?
Since I didn't tell anybody what happened, I was afraid they'd blame me for those kids being dead. So I just...stayed away.
So what made you come forward now, after all this time?
I miss my mom...I miss my dad...I just...I just want to go home.
Still can't believe it. Five years, case closed, everyone thinks he's dead...and there he is. 
And he wouldn't be, if it wasn't for Walter.  Your son did a brave thing, Mrs. Collins. You should be very proud of him.
I am.
You don't think he's still out there, do you?
Why not? Three boys made a run for it that night, Detective. If one got out, maybe either or both of the others did too. Maybe Walter went through the same fears he did. Afraid to come home or identify himself, afraid he'd get into trouble, that people might think it was his fault. Either way, it gives me something I didn't have before tonight.
What's that?
Hope.
