 Something is bothering you...
I appreciate the faux concern but I'm fine.
My concern is genuine...
With our history can you honestly say you care about my well being?
Yes I can, our connection is a product of destiny. I have no ill-will against you.
1941-
-The Stephen Speilberg film?
No, there was that little French girl I liked. You..you violated her and torched her farm killing her family-
-Actually you are jacking up the story, I violated her father in front of her...then I torched the farm.
Well...that makes it ten times better.
Quinn that was war, people do crazy things midst of wide spread conflict. I have gotten jaded over time. It's not like the dark ages when I had style.
When you would rape the horses and ride away on the women?
Yeah I was such a ham.  Quinn, this is what we do. I have gotten carried away in the past, but now I'm tired. I just want to get this over with. It's our calling, we help bring order and balance to the universe.  Maybe I would feel less removed if you would let me win just once.
This isn't a 1930's boxing match. If I take dive, I'm not lining the pockets of some bookie...I'm bringing on the apocalypse. Louis takes a drink of his coffee.
See at least our obligation would be over.
Louis I might be nervous, but I accept my role as savior of this world.  We have been doing this for years-
-centuries-
-and in 5 days we will do the same thing we have always done. 
 We'll fight to the death.
Atta' boy!
...I'm not saying this is an intervention.
Wouldn't there be more people here if it was an intervention?
See and I don't want it to be-
 -That's because it's not
It's just...I mean...are you gambling again? RICK  Nope.
Because...um...the laptop, and you never go anywhere with out it-
-it's my lifeline-
-Yeah well...I just know when I met you I saved you from that downhill spiral...you know...uh...the online poker-
-I'm not a project, you know that right?
Of course not...I never said you were.
Because you act like it...I wonder if I didn't have this "so called problem" if you would have even been interested in me.
Of course I would. I just-
-Take it upon yourself to save people.
OK...maybe. Honestly we have to save each other, who else is going to do it.
 People could just save themselves.
True. Is that human nature? People rely on false deities, self help books...Rick the day I realized we were alone in the universe was the day I realized we have to be there for each other.  Plus don't you find it romantic that I want to save you? Like a movie...
So our relationship is like a romantic comedy?
 A Cameron Crowe romantic comedy.
Oh well...so do you want to see what I'm doing on the computer?
Yes...of course!
Check that out Lloyd Dobler.
 Is that...porn?
Red Tube...like You Tube...but with porn.
Um....  wait...is that?
Oh yes...
Us having sex?
Oh yeah...
I love the part coming up.  You know where I put your legs behind your head and yell "hump bunny!"
Yeah...um...I'm not OK with this... RICK Yeah...OK...I'm also breaking up with you.
What?-
-Yeah not working any more for me-
What the hell?!? How is it not working?!?
You are yelling...you know I don't like confrontational situations.
I'm not trying to be confrontational...I just...you are breaking up with me?
-Yeah...Can I have my laptop back now?
 This part is fucking priceless.
This will do.
So what are you wanting to do?
I figure we would train...
Why?
Because you dominate me every time-  -ohh that sounded dirty
So you want me to help you get an advantage?
No, I want you to help me put on a good show. Everyone loves a good climax Quinn.
You know I don't like interjecting myself into other people's affairs but-
 -But you're going to
You let Rick do this to you.
 How so?
You think you can change the men you are with. You can't get into a relationship with someone in the hopes that you can mold them into the person you want them to be.
Rick needed someone stable- ANNA -Rick needs castrated.
That's slightly strong.
He was an asshole.
Misunderstood-
-OK I'll meet you half way...misunderstood asshole.  You have been repeating the same cycle your whole entire life.
Now that's a little off base.
Remember Billy, who used to give kids the "dirty bomb"? You took it upon yourself to change this behavior-
-This put you right in the cross-hairs to be his next victim.
Good old Zack the neighbourhood drug dealer- Zoey takes Zack into a room labeled "Rehab" on the door.
-You took it upon yourself to be his personal savoir. What did it get you?
Well when Zach's old business partners wanted to collect on a debt-
- they used you to replace their missing coffee table they broke during a drunken party.
-And then you have Toothpick. What kind of name is Toothpick?
It was his gang name.
Of course.
We won't talk about prom night. Needless to say it wasn't romantic.
BACK TO:
Exaggerations-
-Accurate account of events... The story of your romantic life-
-Unfair. Because these people need someone who is going to sacrifice their own needs for them.
Why?
Who else is going to do it? We're alone in the universe. If we are going to make it through this "crazy world" we need to look out for each other.
I think you use atheism and the whole "we are alone in the universe" jive to justify your actions.  I regret taking you to see Dawkins because you use that as a fall back to be codependent.
First of all you are bitter about the whole Dawkins thing, because you flashed him your tits and got us kicked out-
-You didn't even know the first thing about "The God Delusion" until I gave you a copy-
-And someone who was huge supporter turns her back because Richard Dawkins didn't like her nipple piercing-
 -Enjoy your suite in hell non-believer- ZOEY  -Enjoy your delusional life there fence sitter. How about you pray to Thor to hit me with a lighting bolt so I can be removed from this asinine conversation.
You're hiding behind this religious debate because you don't want to admit you have always gravitated toward the "wrong type" of guy.
 I actually stopped listening to you.
What are you staring at?
Who are those guys?
The one closest to us is Quinn. Very weird, socially awkward type of guy. I don't know who his friend is.
What are they doing?
I don't know. Looks like that stuff my ex- Rob was into-
Oh that medieval rugby style game-
-Yeah the made up sport from "Blood Of Heroes"...Oh...Jugger!-
-Sounds pornographic.  So Quinn? What else do you know about him?
Oh no you don't! This is exactly what I was talking about!
Wait a second? You've already established contact with Quinn?
What is this MI-6?
You have your sights on him already!
No, I'm just curious.
What happened?
 I'm so sorry Quinn rubs his temple and then reaches down to pick up the ring.
 Is this yours?
Kinda... Again I'm so sorry.
No need to apologize.
Do you want to sit?
 OK?
 I'm Zoey.
 Quinn.  Zoey? Interesting.
Oh name? Yes, most people have interesting stories behind their names...Honestly I have nothing. Not sure why my parents did that.
Very unique.
 I suppose that's a compliment. So I've seen you around school, but never really...in...class...
I don't go to Marshall, I live near the campus though.
Oh, well so what do you do?
As in profession? I don't really have one.
Really? Rent is insane around here...
Yeah, my father provides for me.
That's pretty cool. What's he into?
Everything.
An entrepreneur...That's awesome.  Well...So do you like coming down here?
To the river?
 Yes where we are right now.
I just needed to think.
Yeah me too. I just suffered a break up.
My apologies.
No it's OK. I mean I'm over it.
 My head disagrees.
I'm sorry.
It's really OK. ZOEY So what did you need to think about? I mean if I'm not prying of course.
No, I just have some problems.  I'm not sure about my calling in life.
I'm not sure anyone is. You know if you need a friend, I'd be glad to...well you know...listen.
I'd appreciate that. I don't have many friends.
I know.  I mean...I've seen you around campus...you seem like a loner...I didn't mean you were a loser. Loner is kind of sexy, loser...well can kind of be too...I'll stop.
No, it's OK. I agree it never hurts to have a friend.
So we can maybe go out to dinner if you want?
OK...
And I can pay, you know..make up for the head...
You really don't have to.
No I want to.
OK.
Well...  Good let's meet up tonight. My place, 7pm.
So when does Ted Bundy get here?
I promised her we would behave.
Although knocking right as I sat down doesn't endear him to me...
You sit your pretty little ass down hooker.
This is why I don't need a boyfriend. You are way to good to me.
Look at this mother fucker.
Zoey is in the bathroom getting ready for a night of manipulation, sit the fuck down.
 Um...OK?
Quinn, is he being rude?
 No quite pleasant.
Let's go.
 I will call the state police in a fucking heart beat if she isn't here by midnight.
 OK?
Anna, you going to call the guard dog off?
 David Smith's Candytakers is on tonight. I'm relaxing and not getting in the middle.
 Nice meeting both of you.
Get the fuck out.
 Don't wait up
Sorry about Jack...
I like him.
Zoey I would be more than happy to pay.
No not at all. This is on me.
I can cover dessert at least.
Listen Quinn, I'm an atheist-
-So you don't want dessert?-
-No, I just wanted to get it out of the way. It bothers people, I mean in this state especially.
It doesn't bother me.
Really?
I don't believe anyone is truly an atheist at the end.
I'm pretty sure I'm really an atheist.
Why's that?
Because I'm a logical thinker.  I don't mean to offend, I'm guessing you're religious.
One supports the business they are in I guess.
Oh my God you are in the ministry.
 Kind of.
My father was a "fire and damnation" preacher. Baptist...He's...
He's?
It's nothing.  Sorry I don't mean to rock your world.
 You didn't.
You poor thing. You are probably so desperate for friends-
 What?
Have you thought about St John's Wort?
You are a very cryptic speaker. ZOEY No I'm thinking out loud mostly. I was just...well...you have some social awkwardness.
OK?
Well you are latching on to religion to make you feel whole. It doesn't make you feel whole, or at least as whole as you thought it would-
You are kind of right on that one.
So you are out with me...I represent everything you were brought up to combat. You're missing something and you are looking for help.
I am looking for help. I'm out with you though because I'm interested in getting to know you.
 See I'm good at reading people.
 Kind of.
I don't know Quinn you seem like a lost soul. I thought that when I saw you by the river.
You like lost souls don't you?
Yeah I actually do. Someone needs to save them.
You going to save me?
If you let me. QUINN I think you might be able to.
 So what do you need Quinn?
 Dessert.
I don't know, he seems fishy.
He seems harmless.
I have heard that a million times.
I know. He's in the ministry-
-and you hate organized religion.
I know and he's understanding of that.
Plus it's to my understanding he didn't actually admit what he did. He just did a bunch of double talk.
It was understood.
Yeah again...not feeling confident in your choices. Please Zoey... ... Be careful this time.
Where were you last night?
 Out...thinking.
You've done a lot of mopping and thinking over the centuries. It kind of brings me down.
So what do you need?
Training.
Now this is a place for a climatic battle.
Not bad.
What's in the bag?
You will love this. Louis goes to the tote bag and starts to unzip it.
I went to the toy store last night and picked these up.
Nothing like our real stuff, but it will do.
 It's kind of lightweight..and silly.
Come on give it a chance.
You have not been lively at all this go around.
A lot on my mind...
We only do this once every seventy years brother. You have to enjoy it while it lasts. QUINN Louis our whole purpose here, is to show up, and over time establish a social base, and then kill each other.
You know and I'm very good at the social base part, and you are not so good...
That's because you find a way to screw it up every time.
That's because, I know this is news to you, I represent evil. 
Here's the thing though, I'm tired Quinn. I really want to stop being the ambassador for this.
That's something we agree on. I'm tired too.
I don't know if we can get off this train. It's just a viscous cycle.
Letting you win is not an option.
I wasn't going there...  ...yet.
You guys leaving?
Yeah we don't want to interrupt your "date rape".
Will you guys stop??
It's OK. I like your friends.
So Quinn?
Yes?
Zoey says you are in the ministry?
Sort of.
You are or you aren't.
It's complicated.
At some point you will have to explain it to Zoey. I mean don't you agree?
Well...
 Will you guys leave??
Who is going too far now?
"Date Rape"
 Bye guys!
 Sorry about that.
It's really OK.
You know I hate him because it's my nature but-
-You think I hate him because of my distrust of men?
Tragedy changes people, it effected Zoey in one way...you in another.
Yeah  I became a "fag hag"
Tonight's Feature Presentation is "I am Curious:Yellow". Probably not the best date movie, but I always show this to ever guy in the beginning.
It's OK this will be my first film experience. ZOEY What??
Yeah, I've never seen a film before. I mean I know of films, can't live in this world and not. I've just never seen one.
This might be a little hard-core for your first film.
No it's OK. I'm excited.
I feel like I'm stealing your virginity here.
You're a virgin too aren't you?
Oh my god! I'm a bad girl.
 You are not.
Please play the film.
 OK? I mean I usually play this for potential boyfriends. If they can handle this, they can handle me.
I guess you're lucky I thought about "They Call Her One Eye".  I hope this doesn't jack you up.
 I am curious Yellow...
What the hell are you talking about?
Nothing really.
You half asleep Quinn?
Look at that ladies and gentleman the apocalypse has begun.
Have you ever seen a movie?
I've seen plenty of movies.
Really?
Yeah I watched "The Sorrow and The Pity" at Marshal the other day. You know people here have yet to figure out we are not students.
I think they have a pretty good idea.
So in all the times we have been here, you haven't gone to the cinema?
No...
Why not?
It's not what we are here to do.
In your bosses name, what is wrong with you? You've got to enjoy yourself. You might be chosen, but you have needs. We all do.
I have to stay focused.
You've also burned yourself out. You're not going to be any good to me...
...unless you take some "you" time.
Can we get back to the matter at hand?
 You are a handsome devil.
 Weird?
You looking for Quinn?
Yes?
 He just left.
 What do we have here?
Why haven't I seen your place?
My place isn't very exciting.
That doesn't surprise me. I can't imagine you having a vast Blu Ray collection.
Blu Ray?
Wow...Quinn, you have to start enjoying the world around you. QUINN You know I realized today you are right about that.
So you're saying you want to come up stairs and watch "They Call Her One Eye"?
 Uh...no. I'm still trying to get I am Curious Yellow out of my head.
Yeah...sorry about that...
 It's OK.
I...I..I'm sorry.
No don't be.
I shouldn't have been that aggressive.
No...it's OK.
OK?
I need to get back though.
Puzzling...but I know...virgin and all-
-Well...I mean...
That came out rude...I just mean...I wanted to do it. I should have taken it slower. QUINN It's OK. I'll be by tomorrow.
You sure?
Yes of course.
 I hope so.
You're here to learn more about his "coming and goings". To find out what I have seen.
So far you are dead on.
It's more than that Louis-
-You know who I am? RYAN BLOOD I know pretty much everything. I've watched you, studied you...I feel I'm expert on your little game every seventy years.
Really?
Oh yes.
You battled as mortals-  
-You were a Lamanite then-  -Quinn was a commander of the Nephites, last survivor of that nation-  -The savoir spoke to him, showed him his future...his destiny-  -See after the death of Christ there was some debate on what was going to bring on the end and signal his return-  - It was decided two great warriors had to fight. The winner would determine the start of the apocalypse. Your boss of course needed someone to represent his interests. Who better than Quinn's old adversary?
Where are you going with this you weird little man?
You had strategy in the beginning. Middle Ages...Old West...Even World War II.  Let's take a step back for a second. The Old West. Lack of faith, corruption, these things make Quinn weak. The chink in his armor is his faith in people. You knew that, and corrupting America...a young land...was the key.  Quinn was a step ahead of you, and looked for a human ally. That ally was Joseph Smith, and Quinn...or I mean Moroni...led Joseph to the plates that later when into-
-His little plan didn't work, but the book is a great coffee table discussion piece. This made him weak Louis. You could have destroyed him. The problem is you've allowed yourself to become fond of him. YOU need to embrace your destiny.
How do I do that?
This girl is distracting him. Get his mind focused on the matter at hand. At this point I'm afraid he isn't even going to fight you.
I'm surprised this girl even likes Quinn. He comes across creepy.
Maybe that's the key-
 -Make her think he's crazy.
Where have you been?
You've been waiting long?
No I figured you were on your way back- QUINN -because you are spying on me again? So I don't need to tell you where I've been.
Who's the girl?
It's started again. You're already jealous. You are going to do the same thing you did during the war...you're going to sabotage this.
I'm insulted frankly.
Don't you play that game. You are being facetious.
No, I'm being serious. You care about the girl, it's obvious. Not in a friendship or I'm curious about human behavior way.
So why are you here?
Have you told her?
Who I am? Of course not!
Quinn you only have a few days left and you care for this girl-  - What's the harm in telling her?
There's a lot of harm in telling her.
If this is real and you really care for this girl, you have to tell her. It's only fair to her.
She has a best friend who is very guarded of me...It's odd she eluded to the same thing. You know the whole "I'm hiding something, and I need to come out into the open" thing.
Sounds to me like she is right.
Well I better do this now then.
Yeah you don't want to lose your nerve.
Can you let yourself out?
Of course.
What the hell?
What the fuck?!? I want to watch Bring me the Head of Alfredo Garcia in peace!
I need to see Zoey.
What about tomorrow? Or never is good.
What's going on??
Quinn? What's wrong?
I need to talk to you, it's important.
Jesus Christ!
I need to tell you everything. Anna is so right.
What are you talking about? Anna is right?
I've not been honest with you about what I do...or who I am.
OK?
I need to come clean. I want you to trust me. I want your friends to trust me.
 OK Quinn, just spit it out.
OK  I'm an archangel named Moroni and I basically represent "light" or everything that's good. Louis, my friend, represents "darkness". Every seventy years we have to fight to the death. If I win everything stays the way it is. The world continues turning. If I lose, Louis takes on the role of the Antichrist and the apocalypse will be unleashed. I'm talking Book of Revelations stuff here. So I only have a limited time left in this world...  I want to spend that time with you.
Oh honey...
You must have a brain tumor or something. You're obviously mentally ill.
Zoey? I...
Shhh. You need me more than ever.
You're not even helping me!
I don't even know what you want!
I can't run my congregation with this sickness! MOM The sickness is in your head.
You're too busy running around doing whatever you feel like. I'm going to fall apart and it's all on you.
Last night?
Yes?
Did you?
Enjoy myself? Of course.
Based on how you are acting this morning I have my doubts. That's not what I meant though. You woke up screaming.
It was nothing.
I understand if you don't want to talk about it. I'm just concerned.
It's not a big deal. It was...a...well wouldn't call it a nightmare...repressed memory. Hell, it's not repressed...I think of it all the time.
What is it?
You don't want to hear about it.
Please?
My father, I mentioned him before, was a Baptist minister. He always said he had this "sickness". He begged my mom for help, it was more important though for her to having shopping and dinner dates with her girlfriends. Anna, my friend that "loves you", has been in my life since I was tiny. She used to come over all the time. My Dad adored her. When I was around twelve I found something in the closet...tapes. My Dad and Anna from the time she was like seven...He...  I showed my Mom, and Dad...well he got out of prison when I was seventeen. I don't see him anymore. His church, even though they knew he had a problem disowned him. He wouldn't have done that to Anna if my mom would have supported him, got him help.
Who do you think is to blame?
He tried to get help Quinn, he reached out to my Mom. I should have protected Anna too...I mean-
-None of this was your fault.
I have to protect people. This was out of my control, you Quinn...What's going on with you...I have control of that.
I love being with you.
Me too.
I can't renege on my responsibilities with Louis though. Zoey sits up.
You're not actually going to fight your friend to the death are you?
I know you don't understand this. We just need to make the most of our time.
Quinn, in 2 days things are going to be normal. This is just a delusion.
I know you don't understand. I just need to go see Louis today.
I understand that.
What is it?
What was wrong?
My neighbor Ryan Blood...looks like he's spying on me.
What are you talking about?
I need to go see Louis.
 I thought him admitting his true self would break them up-
-Instead he is still hot and heavy with her.  He even did the "bipty boom" last night.
The fight is pointless.
It's not pointless. The game has just changed is all.  We have two levels here: one is making sure we keep him engaged.  Honestly though that's an afterthought at this point-
So what's the next move?
 Well when he does become engaged...
RYAN BLOOD ...We need to make sure you still have the advantage.
What are you doing?
I haven't heard from Quinn since he wigged out today.
Well honestly maybe that's a good thing.
He needs me.
He doesn't need you! Not everyone needs you!
 This isn't about me and you-
-This is about me and you! You think you can make up for what happened. The fact you didn't notice, couldn't save me in time. You were a child! I was a child! You couldn't have saved your father either! Your mother couldn't have, no one could have! He was a fucking pedophile!
Hate me all you want, but it's impossible to redeem yourself for things you had no control over. Jack is sick and tired of this display.
Just show her the fucking file.
 What fucking file?
We have a problem.
You're right. We do.
I thought coming here would give us some privacy from Quinn.
I think it worked out perfectly.
So is the file folder for dramatic effect?
No it was to keep everything organized...  ...and for dramatic effect.
Quinn?
Ryan Blood!
You mentioned that earlier. What is going on?
He's with Louis. They're planning to kill me.
I thought that was the whole plan.
No it's...this isn't like Louis. I think he is trying to cheat his way to a win.
Why don't you come over here.
I can't!
Come on Quinn get a grip. Just calm down and come over here.
You're right.
OK so just come on over and we'll talk.
No I mean you're right. I need to get control of myself. I have a destiny. I need to figure out my next move.
Quinn? No wait-
What is it?
I don't know. He's losing it.
You need to look at this.
I spent a lot of time gathering that information.
So what is all this?
Quinn Wilson and Louis Marks were orphans.
Quinn displayed some erratic behavior from the beginning. One of the staff members was Mormon and they would read stories to Quinn out of the Book Of Mormon. That employee was later fired, but a seed was planted in Quinn's head. He kept going on about how he and Louis were meant to fight to the death. Some of the children at the time claim Louis would encourage this behavior. He probably thought this was Quinn's attempt at playing.  As things continued the staff at the orphanage thought Quinn needed help beyond what they could offer. They sent Quinn to a hospital.
You're not telling me anything I didn't already know.
That makes it worse. You're going to continue this now that you know for a fact that he is nuts?
I'm too far into this now. I don't have a choice.
Why don't you let us save you? Please Zoey.
Let me be guys.
 Ehhh...what? You better be a hot bear of a man.
Or Zoey...What do you need hun?
What's this?
Looks like a room list from the psych hospital.
I gathered that. Under Quinn's room...
Quinn and his roommate is listed.
Quinn's roommate was Ryan Blood?
Yeah...looks that way.
Ah fuck.
We need to talk.
About? RYAN BLOOD Strategy.
Strategy?
Yes. I have a method-
-I have to hear this.
A 12 point system-
 - Like 12 steps?
Exactly. It's a sure fire plan to throw Quinn off of his game
Oh I am so all ears.
Well the first thing you need is a battle cry.
Excuse me? A battle cry?
Yes a battle cry. Every great warrior has one.
And a battle cry is going to give me the advantage in battle?
Of course it will. Why don't you try one out?
What?
Yeah, try one out right now. It's liberating.
I'd rather not.
Come on.
 Right here?
Here I'll go first-
That was...interesting.
See?  Your turn.
So right now?
Of course.
Oh come on! That sounds like you are scared of the battle. What? Are you scared of Quinn? You probably are-
That's good! Come on!
Yes that's what I'm talking about!
 Quinn?!? Good to see you!
We need to talk.
 Excuse me for a second.
I know that guy and I don't trust him.
I don't trust you anymore.
Your new friend is dangerous.
So is yours.
Leave her out of this.
You fighting tomorrow morning Quinn?
It's over. This whole thing is nuts. I'm walking away.
Let me walk away from you first then.
I'm coming at you! You are in this game like it or not!
Excuse me?
 Yes.
I'm looking for Mrs. Rhodes. I believe the people here referred to her as "mother".
 People look for a lot of things.
I'm sure they do.  You guys shutting down?
 We are ceasing operations.
Is there something wrong with you?
Calm down. You need to calm down and count to ten.
What? I don't know what that means.
You have to calm down and meditate.
Um...no...listen do you know Quinn Wilson and Louis Marks? They grew up here.
No...You need to leave!
What?
And give me your shirt.
Um...no.
You better make your peace with God girl! The end is coming, those boys are ushering in a new era!
What a fucking nut house!
 Excuse me!
What!
 I know the young boys you speak of.
 And?
 I was here when Quinn got sent to the mental hospital. It was like the other one set it up.
Wait Louis? You think Louis made Quinn appear crazy?
 They both believed the same thing. Louis was just smart enough to hide it.
There is more to it than that.
 I don't understand
Listen "Robot Boy", where did this whole belief come from? This isn't something two kids come up with on their own.
 Yes I believe a seed was planted.
Exactly. I heard there was an employee that got fired for sharing Mormon mythology with the boys.
 No. Off base. He's not the right one.
You might be right sweetheart. The employee I was telling you about earlier was instrumental in getting Appleridge Orphanage shut down.
How?
Mrs. Rhodes was pretty well known in Huntington. I think she felt this guy was getting in the way of her master plan. Finally, nearly 20 years later, he convinced the state what was really going on there.
Well...elaborate.
That girl you talked to was "pants crapping nuts". She actually makes your boyfriend look sane. I guess she believes that Lucifer came to her in a vision-
-How is that different than a dream? Just saying-
-I don't know. I think you have to be awake for a vision.  Will you please pay attention? Anyway he, meaning Lucifer, gave her this jazz about...well you know the story. Two angels, fighting to the death...blah...blah...Anyway he told her she needed to look after Louis and get Quinn out of there. I guess trying to stack the odds in Louis' favor.
So she had Quinn committed? JACK To the same hospital where her nephew was a patient. All on the dark lord's orders I guess.
Fucking Ryan Blood!
Your friends are fucking whack.
Thanks Jack.
So what are you going to do?
I'm going to stop an Apocalyptic battle.
Goddamn Zoey!
So where is she at now?
I got a text about thirty minutes ago. I'm pretty sure she is going to head to Quinn's apartment.
Jack... JACK What?
Her Christ Complex is going to get her killed.
Trust me I know Anna.  I know...
Maybe it's Quinn the jackass.
Good afternoon boys and girls! I need your assistance.
How do people keep ending up in my room?
 You need to learn to lock up.
I'm not fighting Louis.
Why the change of heart?
I think you might be right. I don't think it's necessary. I think the world will keep turning one way or another. I'm not dependant on that.  I'm not a savior.
Do you really believe? You know?
Yes. I do believe it. I know it actually. Since I have been with you, I've doubted what I know to be fact though. Then it hit me, it really doesn't matter.
I'll help you Quinn. I don't want to do it for myself... 
I don't want to do it because I feel I have to. Obligations, or dark incidents from my past...That's not a reason to help anyone. It makes me fucking selfish actually.
You're not selfish Zoey.
I care about you Quinn. That's sincerely my reason for wanting to do this. That's a first for me you know?
I know...
 Let her go!
 Let me pretty the girl up a bit
Hold on sunshine!
Mother fucker!
Where's Zoey?
Fuck you mother fucker! I'm going to call the fucking fuzz once you untie me! Fucking nut bag, ball sac-
 I...will...come...rescue...you
Ass fuck salad-
That actually felt kind of good.
I'll be back guys.
I'm not doing it anymore. You will not have redemption from me.
 Zoey...
Take ownership of what you did. Don't rely on me to save you. I need to start saving myself.
 Goodbye.
What do you think Zoey? I'm a ninja!
 You're fucking crazy!
That's not nice! I think I look good.
I think you're a fucking nut bag.
This is going to be fun. You'll see.
Mrs Rhodes? Does that name ring a bell?
My aunt?
Yeah...yeah...she played a part in the game. Tell us something we don't know. You're such a sexy Nancy Drew right now.
Go fuck yourself.
Or a foul mouthed Velma. That gets me so hard. Does that get you hard Ryan?
Can we go back to my aunt please?
Mrs. Rhodes? What about her? Other than she fucked you guys up. She taught you, Louis how to play it straight. Then she has you fuck Quinn over. RYAN BLOOD She didn't fuck Quinn over. She just helped him out.
Yeah by getting him in contact with you.
She knew one day it was all going to catch up with her. She trained me to get into the game. She told me it was my destiny.
Is that why she placed you in that hospital?
She was my caretaker. She told me she was sending me someone. Someone I would have to guide on to the right path.
Guys I have let my parents fuck me up. There comes a time though where you have to go out on your own. Take responsibility for your own life.
There is a much bigger purpose. You'll see.
This whole thing was to carry out some delusional woman's master plan. She doesn't even remember who she is at this point. I went to see her...she wanted me to take off my shirt.
Will you shut up?!? You are ruining my climatic fight.
Showtime.
Let her go!
Not yet...
 Is this the game you want to play?
I'm not going to lose this time.
 I thought you didn't believe this shit anymore.
There's more going on than you realize Zoey.
This is fucked. Quinn you're not 5000 years old. You were born in an orphanage. None of this makes sense.
Lady, it would look weird if we roamed the earth for 5000 years without facing a mortal death! We keep getting reborn, sometimes we even switch physical form. Thanks for coming to the game late missy!
That makes total fucking sense. Color me stupid!
 You don't get it do you. LOUIS What?!?
If you win...you're not becoming the antichrist.
What are you talking about??
It's   Ryan...it's always been Ryan.
 What is he talking about?
He's pitting us against each other.
I'm going to be honest with you Louis. I've always been honest.
Yeah sometimes to a fault.
We have always played this game as honest as we could. We never did anything to undermine the other. Despite what you represent, you have moral code.  You are not acting with in that code today.
I'm tired of losing...
You're losing right now. Your actions, you can't win like this. Not acting this way.
I'm tired of you. I'm going to end it!
You going to shoot me?
It's the endgame.
OK...I guess I do have some morals.
What the fuck!
Zoey go home. We need to finish this.
No you don't. Guys what are you doing?
Go home girl!
Are you being serious?
I will always love you. You have to go though.
If you don't walk away from this field right now, you will lose me. I will not be in your corner. I will call for help. They will stop you.
Go...
Quinn...last chance. Zoey walks over to Ryan's body. She searches till she finds her cell phone in his front pocket.
I will call the police Quinn...
Goodbye.
 Wow...yeah goodbye.
 I am Curious:Yellow  Goodbye boys...
For years we have thought absence of the impossible indicated that we were exercising free thought. In my experience ladies and gentleman, that's not the case.  Believing in hope my friends, opening yourself up to accepting there might be more than the world around you. That's truly being a free thinker.
Hey Grandma.
Hey...
You look solemn. ZOEY Just sitting here...thinking...
What are you thinking about?
I've had a great life. A wonderful husband, children, grandchildren...  ...great grandchildren...I spent so much of my youth being angry. I wish I could relive my life now, knowing what I know.
You do have a lot of wisdom.
I've tried to pass it on to you.
You've taught me a lot.
Just remember, you can believe what you want to believe Jennifer. Live by what ever moral code you want to live by. Just make sure it's yours. Don't let it stem from anger or past tragedies.  Let it come from your heart.
What is it?
My new boyfriend. The one I wanted you to meet.
 Nice to meet to ma'am.
 Likewise.
We better get going. We're going to grab something to eat.
 I didn't catch your name.
I'm so sorry. I'm being rude.
 He can be like that.
I'm Louis.
 You OK?
Yeah I'm fine.  Enjoy dinner.
See you later on.
 Nice to meet you.
 Likewise.
