...Salvatore, that's right, Salvatore. Di Vita Salvatore ...But, miss, what do you mean you don't know him?!...I...Yes... (She gives a nervous sigh. She has dialed her way through endless numbers but still hasn't managed to speak to Mr. Di Vita. She finally heaves a sigh of relief.) ...That's right, good for you! Oh!...yes...And I'm his mother. I'm calling from Sicily. Been trying all day...Ah, he's not there...But would you be so kind as to give me...?...Yes... (She nods at another woman around forty sitting nearby: it is LIA, her daughter, who jots down the numbers her mother dictates:) ...Six, five, six, two, two, oh, six...Thanks ever so much...Goodbye. Goodbye.
Look, Ma...It's useless calling him. He'll be terribly busy, God knows where he is. Besides he might not even remember. Do as I say, forget it...He hasn't been here for thirty years. You know how he is.
He'll remember! He'll remember! (She puts on her glasses and starts dialing the number.) ...I'm positive. I know him better than you do. If he were to find out we hadn't told him, he'd be angry. I know. (She takes off her glasses.) ...Hello? Good morning. Could I please speak to Mr. Salvatore Di Vita. I'm his mother...
Hey! What the fuck you looking at!?
Salvatore...But what time is it?
It's late, Clara. Sorry, but I wasn't able to let you know I wouldn't be corning... (He fondles her, but he is tired, feels like sleeping.) Go to sleep now. Sleep.
Your mother phoned. She took me for somebody else...
 And what'd you tell her?
I played dumb, so as not to disappoint her. We had a nice little talk. She says you never go see her, and when she wants to see you she has to come to Rome...Is it true?
She phoned just to say that?
She said a certain Alfredo had died. And the funeral's taking place tomorrow afternoon... (A strange look suddenly comes into SALVATORE'S eyes. The idea of going to sleep has clearly left him. It's a piece of news he didn't expect. That's taken him off-guard. CLARA would like to carry on the conversation, but sleepiness makes it almost impossible. An she can manage is one last question in a faint little voice:) Who is it? A relative of yours?
No. Sleep. Go to sleep.
Pss! Pssst!
But how can I make you understand? Without the bell I just can't go on! Always half asleep, you are! What do you do at night anyway? Eat instead of sleep?
Father, at my house we don't even eat at noon. That's why I'm always sleepy. That's what the vet says.
All right, Toto, get moving, I've got things to do. Say hello to your mother.
Can I...
 And don't ask if you can come... Because you can't!! Shoo, shoo, off with you!!
OK, Alfredo, you can start!!
 You must not come here! How many times do I have to tell you? (And he slows down the reels with his hand. The slips of paper are about to arrive. Here's the first.) If the film catches fire, runt that you are, you'd go up in a burst of flame...whoosh! And turn into a piece of...
 ...and turn into a piece of charcoal!!
 Christ, that's a sassy little tongue you've got! Watch out, or someday I'll snip it off.
Can I have it?
No!!! Are you deaf or something? I've got to put this back in when we wind up the film again! You're a real pain in the neck!
Then why didn't you put these back when you wound up the films again?
'Cause sometimes you can't find the right place any more and so...well, actually...they stay here.  Besides, there are more kisses than you can count.
 So I can have these? (ALFREDO explodes, flies off the handle. He grabs SALVATORE by the shoulders and shakes him.)
Look, Toto! Before I kick your ass all the way to China and back, let's make a deal. These strips here are yours, I give them to you. However! One  you're not to stick your nose in here any more. Two  I'll keep them for you, because you can't take them home for God forbid and save our souls, if they catch fire, all hell will break loose! OK? Oh!!! And now scram!
What sort of deal is this? The strips are mine! So why can't I come see them?
Get out!! And don't show your face here again!
Bang! Bang! Bang! Shoot first, think later! This is no job for weaklings! Treacherous dog!
Hey there, you lousy bastard, take your hands off that gold, You black- hearted pig, stay away from me, or I'll smash your face in! 'Ntantatah!!!... (In the heap of movie frames there are also several photographs. SALVATORE picks them up. Family keepsakes. A man in an army uniform. Then the same man with a girl beside him whose smiling face can be recognized as MARIA. SALVATORE takes a closer look at the man's face, then whispers to his mother:) Ma, if the war's over, how come Daddy's never come back?
He'll be back, he'll be back... You'll see. One of these days...
I don't remember him any moreMa, where's Russia?
It takes years to get there. And years to come back...Now go to bed, Toto, it's late.
You can fool your mother but not me! Get yourself a damn diploma and become a policeman. You good-for- nothing!
I don't want to go to school' (The sound of the bell. The black lines move up the steps towards the school.)
Well then?! Five times five equals...?
Thirty!
Silence!!  The five times table. Dunce! One times five, five!! (The class repeats with the TEACHER, in a sing- song chorus:)
Five times five?
 Forty...?
I'm asking you for the last time, blockhead! Five times five equals...? (COLA turns to her with smiling eyes and answers blissfully:)
Christmas!!
 What are you doing here?
I bought a ticket. I've come to see the film. (Meanwhile the USHER comes up behind him and grabs him by the collar, and he almost jumps out of his skin. ALFREDO laughs.)
 Go sit downstairs! You good-for- nothing sponger! !  Worse than rabbits they are!
 Ssssssh!!! Ssssssh! Silence!
It's a double-feature today.
 For Christ's sake! Cut it, Alfredoooo!
Grrrr! Grrrrr!
SSSSSH' Drop dead! Silence! Hey, kids, we're here to see the film!
 Ahhh! What a shame! I've been going to the movies for twenty years and I never saw a kiss!
And when will we see one?
I've been looking for you all day. Did you buy the milk?
No...
Then where's the money?
Somebody stole it.
What'd you do with the money? Go to the movies?
Signora Maria, don't do that. He's just a kid.  And why are you telling fibs?  We let him in free. He must have lost the money inside the movie theatre... (SALVATORE stares at him in amazement, goes on listening to him.) How much did you have?
Fifty lire... 
 What you find tonight on the floor between the seats? (The USHER reaches into- his pockets, pulls out some odds and ends.)
A comb, two heel-savers, a box of tobacco... (ALFREDO very skillfully reaches out with fifty lire he has taken from his pocket. And like a magician he draws the money out of the USHER'S hand.)
...and fifty lire!  See? (He hands over the money under the USHER'S astonished eyes.)
Thanks, Uncle Alfredo. Thanks. Good- night.
It's midnight. I've got to shut down the square! Go away. The square's mine! The square's mine!!
Good morning, father. It's hard on the feet, huh?
 Yeah!...Getting there's downhill and all the saints help you. But coming back! The saints stand there watching you, that's all! God's will be done.
Ouch! Ouch! My foot! I can't walk!
Alfredo, did you know my father?
Of course I knew your father. He was tall, thin, pleasant, and had a moustache like mine. Always smiling. He looked like Clark Gable.
Alfredo, now that I'm older, I'm not saying I can start coming to the projection booth, to the movie house...But...maybe, why don't we become friends?
'I choose my friends for their looks, and my enemies for their brains...'  You're too smart to be my friend. Besides, as I always tell my kids, be careful to pick the right friends!
 But you don't have any kids!!!
 All right, all right! When I've got kids that's what I'm telling them! (The outlying houses of Giancaldo finally heave into sight.)
Stop crying...The fire is out...I'm here...That'll do, that'll do... (ALFREDO and SALVATORE come up behind them. SALVATORE has barely leapt off the bicycle when his mother sails into him like a fury, shrieking:) Miserable boy! You're the ruin of me! Your sister would have been burnt alive if I hadn't been there! And all your fault!
But aren't you ashamed of yourself, Uncle Alfredo, playing with a little boy at your age?!
 But...what's it got to do with me?...
And who gave him all those films? Promise you won't give him any more of this trash! Don't let him set foot any more in the movie house. The boy's crazy! Crazy! All he talks about is movies and Alfredo' Alfredo and movies!!
I give you my word, Donna Maria. (MARIA now turns one last time to her son.)
God's got to grant me one wish! Send your father back home! And he'll see you get what's coming to you! (SALVATORE lowers his hands, looks at her and with the dreadful sincerity of children:)
Daddy's not coming back...He's dead. (An icy flash runs through MARIA'S eyes.)
It's not true! No! It's not true!!! I'll show you he's coming back!
Ah! I'll wring all your necks!! Or my good name means nothing! !! Lousy brats!
Signora Anna!
 Your wife told me to bring you this.
 Give it to me!...
I told my mother you weren't the one who gave me the films. That it wasn't your fault. But I thought you said the film could catch fire just to scare me. Now that I know, I won't steal any more from you. That's all I wanted to say. I'm going. (He turns to leave but ALFREDO takes him by the shoulder and stops him.)
Toto, come here.
Now listen to what I've got to say. I took up this profession when I was ten years old. In those days there weren't these modern machines. The films were silent. The projectors were run by hand, like this, with a crank. And you wound the crank all day long. It was really rough going! If you got tired and slowed down' boom! Everything would go up in flames!
Then why don't you want to teach it to me too? Now that there's no more cranking, and it's easier?
 Because I don't want to, Toto! This is not a job for you. It's like being a slave. You're always alone. You see the same film over and over again, because you have nothing else to do. And you start talking to Greta Garbo and Tyrone Power like a nut! You work on holidays, on Christmas, on Easter. Only on Good Friday are you free. But if they hadn't put Jesus Christ on a cross...You'd work Good Fridays too!
Then why don't you change jobs? (ALFREDO sighs, irritated. He reaches out to turn the knob of the carbon rods. He gazes at SALVATORE as if he were a grown-up, somebody who's making things hard for him.)
Because I'm an idiot. How many other guys in town know how to be a projectionist? None! Only a jerk like me could do it. Besides I wasn't lucky. When I was a kid there was the war! When I grew up, another war! Now it's all different. Times have changed. And you want to be a dope like me? Huh? Answer me!
No...
Good for you, Toto. Good for you... I'm only saying this for your own good... (He gets up and, speaking all the while, goes into a closet with a bucket in it, the toilet of the booth. He turns his back and pees. ) Cooped up in here you die of heat in the summer and of cold in the winter. You breathe in smoke, gas fumes, and earn practically nothing. (SALVATORE listens to him, but taking advantage of the fact he can't be seen, he turns the knob of the carbon rods, just as he had seen done a moment before...)
 But don't you like anything about what you do? (SALVATORE gazes at the photos on the wall: Keaton, Garbo, Snow White. ALFREDO smiles to himself. Sure, there's something about that damn job he likes:)
With time...you get used to it. Besides, when you hear from up here that there's a full house and that people are laughing, having fun... Then you're happy too. (ALFREDO is lost in thought, doesn't notice that the documentaries and cartoons have finished. The screen is blank. And down in the theatre laughter is not heard but an uproar of whistling and swearing. SALVATORE'S eyes sparkle, he seizes the opportunity. He turns on the lights and stops the projector, just as ALFREDO would have done. At which ALFREDO buttons up his pants in a hurry and rushes over alarmed, but sees that everything is in order. SALVATORE looks at him all smiles, as if he expected a medal for civil bravery. Instead, ALFREDO reacts like a wild animal.) So I've been wasting my breath? You pretend to agree with me, but as soon as my back is turned, you do what you want! (He gives SALVATORE a kick in the ass, shrieking:) Get out of here! I don't want to lay eyes on you again! This is the last straw! Your mother's right, you're crazy!! (He pushes him towards the stairs. SALVATORE suddenly vanishes, scared out of his wits. ALFREDO talks to himself, in a fury:) But how'd he do it? The little bastard! By watching, he's learned! It's incredible! (He peers out of the window, yelling, as he sees SALVATORE running through the square. ) I'm letting the box office know you're not to set foot even into the theatre! There are no more tickets for you! And I'm also talking to Father Adelfio! You won't be an altar boy any more either!!! You little runt! (SALVATORE looks at him. Hates him. Yells something offensive:)
Alfredo, go fuck yourself!!! (But his words are drowned out by the sudden shouting of the people outside the caf.)
Goal!! Holy Mother of God!!! (A MAN in the crowd crumples to the ground. The others swarm around him, alarmed. They hold up his head. His face is pale. They check the coupon he is clutching in his hand. A voice rises like a siren from the crowd.)
Ciccio Spaccafico's won the Sisal!!!!! 
The Neapolitan's won the lottery!!! Let's go see, kids!!! Northerners are always lucky! (The whole audience leaps up and heads for the exit. Pushing. Shouting. Laughing and Joking. )
Excuse me, professor. Here are the men taking the exam for the elementary school certificate.  Come in, please... (All the children turn to look. A MAN around thirty enters, ill at ease. The children recognize him and laugh mischievously. The second is the BLACKSMITH, the one who falls asleep at the movies. The third is a twenty-year-old-boy, ANGELO. The fourth is ALFREDO, embarrassed and red in the face. SALVATORE is speechless. Gives a slightly ironic laugh. There is a look of revenge in his shrewd little eyes.)
YOU jerk. Tell me how to solve this fucking problem!
Ssssh! Silence back there!!
Pay attention. This is where it can easily catch fire. If it happens, the first thing you've got to do is break it off, here and here, so the whole reel doesn't go up in fames.
You understand which side the gelatin's on?
It tastes wonderful!
Fraaaame!! Wake up, Alfredo! (SALVATORE tries to do a hand-binding. ALFREDO winds the film, hangs a slip on a nail in the wall.)
These are the shipping invoices for the film. They are always to be kept. You see?
OK, Alfredo.
Holy Mother! What a face! So ugly!
Now you can run it by yourself.
 Christ, what a piece of ass!!!
Di Francesco, aren't you saying goodbye to your schoolmate? (DI FRANCESCO gives his head a little shake. The TEACHER leans over to him.) But why? (DI FRANCESCO whispers, almost into her ear.)
My father says he's a Communist...
Will they really find work in Germany?
Who knows?...It's like an adventure.  Hope springs eternal... (PEPPINO from the distance gives one last wave at the window of the projection booth. SALVATORE waves back.)
Peppinoooo! Come back sooon!! (The black car drives off, leaving a cloud of dust that envelops the suppressed sobs of the grandparents standing there waving handkerchiefs. SALVATORE watches the car drive off. He mumbles:) Good thing Germany's closer than Russia.
The Defense Minister has announced a new listof names of Italian soldiers, so far considered missing and now confirmed as dead. Families concerned will be notified directly by military authorities.
...Unfortunately we don't know what war cemetery he's buried in...This is the form for the pension. If you'd like to sign it...
Don't shove! There's no room! For heaven's sake! I can't give another showing, it's late!
Open up!!! Father Adelfio!! (The audience in the theatre hears the uproar. Reacts:)
Ssssh! Sssssh! Be quiet out there!! What the hell! (From the window of the projection booth, ALFREDO and SALVATORE look at the crowd down below, yelling and complaining. Some of the people look up at them. )
Why can't we show the same film tomorrow?
It's got to be sent to another town. And if we don't the owner of that movie house gets pissed off.
Too bad!
 Stop! Go home, all of you! Otherwise somebody's going to end up in jail!' That's enough!
 'Joe! A mob doesn't think, doesn't know what it's doing...' (SALVATORE gives him a curious, inquisitive look. ALFREDO smiles.) Spencer Tracy said it in Fury.  What'd you say if we let these poor devils see the film, Toto? (SALVATORE stares at him in amazement, all excited.)
Wonderful! But how can it be done?
You don't believe my words, but you'll have to believe your own eyes!...And now get your ass off that damn stool, boy!
 Go to the window, boy, and have a look...
Alfredo, it's beautiful. (A voice is heard in the crowd of people jammed around the entrance to the movie house.)
Oh, praise the Lord!! It's true! Look! The movie!! There's Toto!! Hurry! Hurry!...THANKS, ALFRED0000!!
Good for you, Alfredo!
Shut the window!! Shut the window! Go to bed!!
What do you say, should we make them happy?
 Sure, sure!
Aaaaaaaa! At last!
 Do you want to go down there? (SALVATORE gives a contented nod.) Go on.
Ladies and gentlemen! You have to buy tickets! Reduced rate!
Fuck off!! The square belongs to everybody! (The VILLAGE IDIOT peers Out Of the crowd, all worked up.)
No!!! The square's mine!!! Come on, kids, no joking around here!!! Otherwise...
Heeeelp! Run for your lives!!!
Alfredo! Heeeelp! Help!!!
What a pity! Poor Alfredo! What a terrible thing!! Cheer up, Father, is there something we can do?'
 Burnt up...Burnt up.
What'll we do now! The town will have to get along without movies! Who's got the money to rebuild it?
Cheers' Congratulations, Don Ciccio!
To the Cinema Paradiso!
How'd you solve his being under age?
I took out a license as projectionist, thanks to friends down at the guild offices. But I don't know a thing about it. Officially, I do the job...  ...but Toto earns the money.
Fine.  Always be careful, my boy. Don't ever go to sleep. Be sure another accident doesn't happen. Do everything poor Alfredo taught you. And may God bless you.
Thanks, Father. Thanks.
And now enough of this gloomy atmosphere. Life goes on! I want to see you happy and smiling!
Ooooooh! They're kissing!! Look at that!! Christ, that's news!!
Toto?...
Any room for me in this Cinema Paradiso? (SALVATORE runs over and embraces him.)
Come in, Alfredo.
 Toto, will you bring him home when you close down?
Yes. Signora Anna.  I'm glad you came.
How's school?
OK. OK. But now that I've got a job, I'11 probably stop going...
Don't do that...Sooner or later you'll be left empty-handed.
Why? What do you mean?
Toto, this isn't for you. For the moment, the Cinema Paradiso needs you, and you need the Cinema Paradiso. But it won't last...Some day you'll have other things to do, more important things... (He reaches out and touches SALVATORE'S face to 'feel' his expression.) That's right, more important. I know it. Now that I've lost my sight I see more. I see everything I didn't see before... (As ALFREDO moves his hand from SALVATORE's face, we see that he is now a young man, and that ALFREDO is older, grayer.) And it's all thanks to you, who saved my life. And I'll never forget it... (SALVATORE doesn't understand his strange words. ALFREDO can 'feel' he is troubled.) And don't put on that look. I haven't gone off my head yet. You want proof?
 Yes. I want proof.
For example, at this moment the film's out of focus. Go see.
 It's hard to explain, Toto...
Only two days? Are you joking?!... What do I care if all the copies are reserved?...Catene for only two days in a place like this! Why, people will eat me alive!... (Standing beside him listening is SALVATORE. He is carrying school books under his ann. In the caf, several curious ONLOOKERS laugh as through the caf window they watch some unemployed PEASANT MEN dancing together at the club. SPACCAFICO listens nervously, then shrieks as if he were about to eat the phone.) ...I know, I know. But even if I start showing at eight in the morning it wouldn't be enough! This is a big town now and you people at the Titanus know it perfectly well! I'm your sole agent and if I get pissed off I'll write straight to Lombardo, in Rome!! I'll give you guys a good run-around!! If I get my dander up, I can let fly, if my name's Spaccafico!!
Don Ciccio, I've got an idea...You remember that old abandoned movie house where they're supposed to build those low-rent houses?
So what's that got to do with it?
The projector's all rusty, but I could fix it in two or three days. Give the place a good cleaning, put in some seats and bring in a projectionist and we'll show Catene in two houses.
 What the fuck you talking about? You getting into the act too, Toto? Titanus has trouble giving me even one copy and I have to say thanks! If I ask for two, the least they'll do is cut off my head and play ball with it!
Who says we need two copies?
 That's enough now! You've seen it ten times! I need the seats! I wish you'd all get the galloping runs!
Easy! Easy! Through the emergency exits, quick! Stop the jabbering!!
Now get running and bring me the first reel. Meanwhile I'll start showing the news!
OK, Toto!
Quick! Give it to me! Here's the first part. Get moving!
Here you are! Quick, quick!! People are waiting!
Hey, when's it starting!! We've got ploughing to do in the morning!! Toto, get a move on!! Heeey!!
What are we going to do, Toto? The whole place here is up in arms. They've been waiting more than a half hour.
What can I do?
Where's the fucking bastard got to?
Let's get one thing straight, Don Ciccio! I'm waiting ten minutes more, and if you haven't started... you're giving me my money back!!
 Well said! Well said! We want our money back!!
Easy! Easy! What about my showing you the first part again? Huh?
No! First part, my foot! We want to see how the story ends!!
I've seen the whole works! You want me to tell you how it ends?
Nooo! No! Shut up, you jerk!!
Boccia! Boccia!
 Boccia, what's wrong? (He runs over to help his friend. Behind the bush he discovers BOCCIA humped up between the legs of TERESA, a prostitute. He moves with all the fury of his young years. SALVATORE has never seen people making love before and is speechless.) Damn you, what are you doing?
 Oh, Christ, it's so good!!! (And he goes on ramming it home.)
Hey, cut it out! Go away. Shoo!
What'd I tell you? It doesn't catch fire!
Progress! It always arrives too late!
 Come on...That's right...relax...  ...Don't be scared...
 Is it true that if I bleed I've got to squeeze lemon juice on it?
 Lemon juice?...That's a new one for you! Who tells you this crap...Take it easy...That's right...You see, it's not painful, is it?
...There you are! That's right, that's right! Keep going... (SALVATORE is quicker, has learned the lesson. TERESA goads him on.) Ah!!! There, now you're a real man! A man! ? A real calf! (SALVATORE's panting slackens into a deep sigh of pleasure.)
You know that one there?
She's new. Not bad though. Nice- looking. (SALVATORE has the look of somebody seeking for an idea, some way of picking up a conversation with her.)
Her father s the new bank director. Loaded, luxury and easy living!
People who jerk off with a shirt so they won't get their hands dirty. 
Look, you dropped this.
Oh, thanks. I hadn't noticed...
My name's Salvatore...And yours?
 Elena. My name's Elena.
I...I...The other time at the station.
Chaplin's Modern Times! Right, Toto?
That's right, Modern Times.
I've shown it so many times I know it by heart. The first time I showed it, in 1940, was the Sunday my first wife died. They kept it hidden from me all day so they wouldn't have to close down the movie house. I only found out that night, after the last show. Those are things you never forget...  So, Toto, how are these home movies going? (SALVATORE has switched on the little projector and a square of light appears on the wall beside ALFREDO, with the scenes shot in town.)
Yes. (The shots of the slaughter-house have appeared.)
 What is it, what is it? What's the picture?
It's people in the slaughter-house killing a calf. There's blood all over the floor, like a lake. And through this lake another calf passes by on its way to die.
Now what can you see?
Nothing, there's nothing. It's all out of focus.
 Is there a woman?...Tell me the truth... (SALVATORE is shamed, uncertain, doesn't know whet to say. A tender look filters through ALFREDO's dark glasses. He has obviously caught on and whispers:) There is a woman.
Yes, it's a girl I saw at the station.
What's she like? What's she like?...
She's nice. My age...Slender, with long hair, brunette. She had big blue eyes, a simple expression and a little beauty mark on her lip, but really tiny. You can only see it close-up. And when she smiles...She makes you feel...
Eh! Love...what a mystery! (SALVATORE turns off the projector and heaves a deep sigh, almost of liberation. ALFREDO'S sympathy does him a lot of good. It's nice to be understood. He moves over closer to him. ALFREDO runs his hand through his hair, whispers:) I understand you, Toto...The ones with blue eyes are the most beautiful. Whatever you do, you can't make friends with them. (SALVATORE is comforted by the way he talks. He didn't think it was possible to put into words the things he has felt since meeting ELENA. He nods his head. ALFREDO sighs.) Eh, there's nothing to be done about it! The heavier a man is, the deeper his footprints. And if he's in love, he suffers, because he knows he's up a one-way street. Because love is a meaningless thing when a man gets it into his head to do what he wants... (SALVATORE is touched by his sensitivity, by his intense, passionate, sweet way of speaking.)
What you say is wonderful! But sad...
 They're not my words. John Wayne said it in Shepherd of the Hills.
Stinking two-timer!! (And they burst out laughing.)
Hi, Elena!
Hi. Why are you running?
No particular reason... (He is entranced by her eyes. He wants to tell her all sorts of things, say all the words he has memorized a thousand times. But now he can't get them out. His knees tremble. He does his best to overcome his confusion, but all that comes out is:) Nice day, huh? (A gust of wind envelops them in a cloud of dust and a clap of thunder rends the air. ELENA laughs, amused by the blunder.)
Yes, nice day. (SALVATORE laughs too. He gazes at her long hair tossed by the wind. She turns to leave.) ...I've got to go now. Bye-bye.
Bye-bye, Elena. (ELENA walks away. And SALVATORE also turns to leave. Only now is he seized by disappointment, regret at not having made the best of the opportunity. He talks to himself.) ...What an idiot! What an idiot! 'Nice day'! Christ!!
You probably don't believe me, but I'm going to become the leading man in your life. Sure, I don't look like Marlon Brando, but look at me, really look at me. Am I really so ugly? So should I try once more? Maybe It'll succeed. What do you say?
Hello, can I speak to Elena, please?
Yes. (SALVATORE recognizes ELENA's voice, changes his tone, turns sweeter, more personal.)
Is that you, Elena?
Yes...
Oh, I'm sorry, I didn't recognize your voice. This is Salvatore, remember?
Yes...
Listen, I know that every time we see each other I make a fool of myself, but I'm not like that, I swear. It's just that when I see you, I feel shy, the right words don't come to me, I don't have the courage to say that all I do is think about you... (He has finally got it out. He's dripping with sweat, but happy at having succeeded. He continues.) That's right, Elena, you're the last thing I think of when I go to sleep and the first when I wake up in the morning. And at night I always dream of you. I know, it's not good on the phone. But please, don't get me wrong. Because I love you very much...
 If you don't stop phoning her, I'm calling the police!
 But excuse me, who's speaking?
I'm Elena's mother, you filthy pig!
I'm sorry, Signora, maybe there's a misunderstanding...I...
And don't call my daughter any more. Never!
I told you, the blue-eyed ones are the most difficult.
But why? There must be some way to make her understand!
Don't think about it, Toto. Don't even try. With feelings, there's nothing to understand.
Stop it! I've had enough of your sermons! You act as if you created the world! (A bicycle streaks by ALFREDO, who gives a startled jump, as if it were about to run into him. He raises his voice, panic- stricken.)
Heeey! Totooooo! Don't get pissed off with me now! Come here! I don't know where the fuck I have to go. (A MAN on a bicycle almost collides with ALFREDO. SALVATORE fumes, goes over to him listlessly. ALFREDO puts his hand back on his shoulder and they start walking again. ALFREDO has calmed down, but his voice is determined.) And the next time be careful how you talk. Not to take credit away from the Lord, but if I had created the world, in all modesty, certain things would have come out better. But unfortunately such was not the case.
 You see, it s like I say. You always have an answer for everything.
I want to make you happy, Toto! I'm going to tell you a story. (And he squeezes SALVATORE'S shoulder. It's the signal for taking a rest. They sit in a doorway. ALFREDO starts telling his story, and his way of speaking is hypnotic, magical. With those eyes lost in empty space, it's as if his thoughts and his words came in from some other dimension, mysterious, hidden...) Once upon a time a king gave a feast and there were all the most beautiful princesses of the realm. Basta, one of the guards, saw the king's daughter: she was the loveliest of all! And he immediately fell in love with her. But what could a poor soldier do compared with a king's daughter?!...One day he managed to meet her and told her he couldn't live without her. The princess was so struck by the depth of his feeling that she said to the soldier  'If you will wait a hundred days and a hundred nights beneath my balcony, then in the end I'll be yours.' Christ, the soldier ran off there and waited! One day, two days, ten, twenty...Every night she looked out of her window, but he never budged. Come rain, wind, snow, never budged! The birds shat on him and the bees ate him alive! After ninety nights he was gaunt and pale and tears streamed from his eyes but he couldn't hold them back. He didn't even have the strength to sleep any more. The princess kept watch...And on the ninety-ninth night, the soldier got up, picked up his chair and left!
No! You mean right at the end? (SALVATORE is amazed, dumbfounded; that ending has made a deep impression. They start walking again.) ALFREDO That's right, Toto, right at the end? And don't ask me what it means. If you figure it out, let me know...
I'll be damned'
What is it, Alfredo? Right now, of all times!
 Father Adelfio, I have a very serious doubt that is torturing my soul. And you've got to help me, because I've lost all peace of mind...
Father, I have sinned...
 We'll talk about that later.
 But...who...
 Sssssh, Be quiet, pretend everything's normal. I'm Salvatore.
What are you doing here?
But Alfredo, what you're saying is horrifying!
I know. But take the-miracle of the loaves and fishes, for example! I think about it a lot...How is it possible for...
 There was a terrible rumpus at home. My mother told my father. And how could you have mistaken my voice?!
Forgive me, Elena. It was stupid of me. But I had to talk to you.
You're so beautiful, Elena...That's what I wanted to tell you. When I meet you, I can't put two words together because...you give me the shivers. I don't know what you do in these situations, what you're supposed to say. It's the first time. But I think I'm in love with you.
Father, I have sinned... (SALVATORE turns lo her, instinctively.)
I absolve you in the name of the Father, the Son and the Holy Ghost. Go in peace, my daughter. (And he slams the panel shut in her face. ELENA is barely able to control her laughter.) When you laugh, you're even more beautiful.
Salvatore, it's awfully sweet of you. And even though I don't know you, I like you. But...I'm not in love with you.
I don't care. I'll wait.
For what?
For you to fall in love with me too. Listen carefully. Every night, when I get off work, I'll come and wait beneath your window. Every night. When you change your mind, open your window. That's all. I'll understand...
 You understand now? You see it clearly?
 Oh yes, father. Now everything's clear.
And the next time don't go around saying such heresy. You survived the fire at the movie house. But no one can save you from the fire of Hell!
 But why hasn't Toto shown up? The movie house is closed at this hour!
He had to do something for me...
Six, five, four, three, two, one, zero! Happy New Year! Happy New Year!
 There's nothing to worry about. He's probably with his friends.  Let's toast!
 Here's to you! Here's to you! Happy New Year!
For Toto too, here's to you!! Happy New Year! !
Salvatore...
 You have a great future as a driver. If they don't arrest you first!!
That's nothing to do with it, it's the car that's still being run in...
SO now how do we get home?
Hello, Dr Mendola...Hem...
 Toto, are you pulling my leg or something? How is it possible to see this television without film?
Just so, Alfredo. There isn't any. And if you buy a television set, you can watch it at home, without any fuss...
 Could be...But I don't like this business. It smells fishy to me.
 You see what a bright idea, Dr Mendola? But without the bank loan how could I have bought the machine? If we don't get organized around here, in this day and age, we'll meet the same end as the Punch and Judy shows!
Could it be your father doesn't like the work I do...That my family's too poor...Is that it?
 Elena!
All right! ! (To Salvatore, in a whisper) For the moment it's impossible to see each other...As soon as school is out, we're going to go stay with friends in Tuscany. We'll be there all summer...Maybe if you came up, we could meet in secret... SALVATORE  But we're opening the outdoor movie theatre this summer. What will I do all this time without seeing you?!
I'll write to you every day. Don't worry. I love you. The summer'll be over and I'll be back...
 Elena!
Well, look who's here!! Cecil B. De Mille! Hey, Toto!! When are you coming to shoot another film?!?
All seats are sold out! Free entrance and payment on the way out!! Sssssh!!
 Salvatore, my darling, here the days never end. I find your name everywhere if I read a book, do a crossword puzzle, thumb through a newspaper...You're always before my eyes. Today I've got some rather bad news. At the end of October we're moving to the city where I'll attend the University. It'll be hard to see each other every day. But don't worry, whenever I can get away I'll always come running to you, to the Cinema Paradiso.
Fuck me! I've caught an octopus! An oooooctopus!
Elena...Elena...Elena...
When will this shitty summer be over?  In a film it'd already be finished...  ...Fade-out and cut to a nice thunderstorm!!! Huh? that'd be perfect!
Elena!...But when...
I got back today. You can't imagine the excuses I had to make up to be here...
Don Ciccio, this is for Toto. Give it him... (And he pedals off on his bicycle.)
What is it?
Holy blood of Judas! Now what am I going to do??!
So what'd they say?
The army says that, as a war orphan, I don't have to serve in the military, but nothing can be done. It's a bureaucratic error. I have to leave. Day after tomorrow morning. They're sending me to Rome. But they'll discharge me ten days later. Let's go...
No, Salvatore. You'd better go. It's my father.
Good, this way we can finally talk. I'll convince him this time.
He won't be convinced, Salvatore. He has other plans for me.
Who?
The son of one of his colleagues. Don't act that way. We'll talk about it later. Wait for me Thursday at the Cinema Paradiso. I'll be coming with the five o'clock bus.
Toto, this is no film for the common herd. One day'll be more than enough...So tonight, please set up tomorrow's film, so the projectionist who is coming will find it ready.
OK...
Cheer up, Toto. I'll be here waiting for you. No one's taking your job away from you. Don't worry!
You weren't expecting me?
 No, Alfredo, I was coming to help you...
 You were expecting her? Huh? (SALVATORE doesn't answer. He's too worried, too upset. ALFREDO climbs another step, whispering.) ...It's a nasty business waiting by yourself. In company it's better. No?...Then I'll leave.
Alfredo, I need your help!
Open up! Open up! Elenaaa!
TotooooO! TotooooO!
Lights! Christ, what a piece of crap!! We want OUT money back!!! Heeeeey!! Bandits!!
But where'd you go, Toto?!!
I'm here! Take it easy! Take it easy! (And he folds him into his arms, like calming down a little boy who has had a nightmare. Be whispers, still out of breath:) Sit down, sit down... (ALFREDO quiets down as SALVATORE lowers him into a chair, and asks him the only question upon which his last hope depends.) Did she come?
No, nobody came. (And he embraces him, almost as if to comfort him in his great disappointment.)
Radio Operator Di Vita Salvatore! Third Battalion, Ninth Company, sir!!!
One, two, one, two!! Attention! Left march!
Aaaaaaah! Heeeeeelp!!
 Colonel, I was supposed to spend ten days here and it's been about a year, and I haven't ever gone borne. I'd like a furlough, at least!
Elena...Elena...Elena... (He has touched the extreme of suffering, a young man who has been denied love and affection, his rights, freedom. A NURSE comes up.)
Di Vita Salvatore, get ready, your discharge has come through.
You 're thinner...You can tell you've not been treated well. (As usual, you can't hide anything from ALFREDO. SALVATORE senses something different in him that he can't figure out, like same wild restlessness within).
They tell me you never go out, never talk to anybody. Why?
Toto, sooner or later there comes a time when talking or keeping quiet is the same thing. So it's better to shut up.  It's hot in here. Toto, take me to the beach.
At the Christmas party the lieutenant pinches a girl's ass. The girl turns around: it's the daughter of the commanding officer. The lieutenant is scared to death and says: 'Miss, if your heart is as hard as what I have just touched, I'm done for!
 Did you ever see her again? (SALVATORE'S laughter dies away, taken off-guard as he is. Then he lights a cigarette.)
No. And nobody knows where she is.
It was probably meant to be like this. Each of us has a star to follow. So now what are you thinking of doing?
Listen to this one...The commander says to the sergeant: 'You remember that windmill that used to be there?' 'Yes, sir, I remember the mill's gone but the wind's still there!' (And he bursts into nervous laughter. But this time ALFREDO remains cold, unmoved, does not laugh with him. SALVATORE gradually falls silent. He doesn't know what to say. For the first time in his life, he doesn't know what goal to aim for, doesn't know what to do. The cloud of smoke wreaths his nervous face, now he seems to relax, whispers:) You remember the story of the soldier and the princess? 
Now I understand why the soldier went away just before the end. That's right, just one more night and the princess would have been his. But she, also, could not have kept her promise. And...that would have been terrible, he would have died from it. So instead, for ninety-nine nights at least he had lived with the illusion that she was there waiting for him... (This time SALVATORE is the one to explain something to ALFREDO. And ALFREDO realizes how bitter his story is and, above all, that the boy standing there is no longer a boy...)
Do like the soldier, Toto! Go away! This land is cursed. (They are now leaning against a boat on the beach. ALFREDO goes on whispering his words.) When you're here every day you feel like you're at the center of the universe, it seems like nothing ever changes. Then you go away, one year, two...And when you come back, everything's different. The thread has broken. You don't find those you were looking for, your things no longer exist. Isn't that the case?...You've got to go away a long time, for many, many years, before coming back and finding your people again, the land where you were born...But not now, it's impossible. Now you're blinder than I am. (Intense words, straight from the heart, and SALVATORE is spellbound. He whispers with a smile:)
Who said that? Gary Cooper, James Stewart, Henry Fonda? Huh? (ALFREDO also gives a gentle smile)
No, Toto, nobody said it. I say it! Life's not like you saw it in the movies. Life...is harder. (He lays his hand on SALVATORE'S shoulder, gives it a hard squeeze.) Get out! Go back to Rome. You 're young, the world is yours! And I'm old...I don't want to hear you talk any more, I want to hear talk about you.
Don't come back any more, don't think about us, don't turn round, don't write, don't give in to nostalgia. Forget us all. If you can't hear it and come back, don't come looking for me, I won't let you into the house, you understand?
Thanks for all you've done for me.
Whatever you do, love it like you loved that projection booth of the Paradiso when you were little... (The train moves now. Hands wave in the air, drawing further and further away. The PRIEST has arrived at the last moment and waves goodbye from the distance.)
 Goodbye, TotooooooO!!! I got here too late. What a shame!
It's Toto...I knew it...
 Toto!...
How are you, Mamma?...
Lia'll be so glad to see you, you'll see. And you won't recognize the kids any more, they're grown up by now.
 They're always writing to me saying they want to come to Rome!
See how pretty the house is? We did everything over.  If it hadn't been for you!  Come, I have a surprise.... (She takes him by the hand and leads him out to the hallway. SALVATORE looks at her and feels a pang. She seems smaller, age withers the body, she is slightly stooped, her hair is gathered into a knot at the back other head.) You must be tired. If you want to rest, there's time before the funeral.
 No, Mamma, it only takes an hour by air, you know.
 You shouldn't tell me that now. After all these years! (SALVATORE gets the message, feels guilty. Thinking about it, it seems incredible that he has never come before. MARIA opens a door, steps aside to let her son in, whispers:) I put all your things in here. Go in, go in...
He would have been happy you came, Toto. He always talked about you. Always! Right to the end! He was terribly fond of you... (Tears come to her, she is unable to say any more. SALVATORE gives her a hug, deeply touched by her words.) He left two things for you. Come see me before you leave.
 How long's it been shut?
Six years ago this May. No one came any more. You "know better than me, Mr. Di Vita, the crisis, television, videos. By now the movie business is only a dream. The city's bought it now to make a new parking lot. Next Saturday they're tearing it down...A pity!...
But why do you call me 'Mr. Di Vita'? It didn't used to be that way...
Well, it's hard to call an important person by his first name. But if it really matters to you, I'11 call you...  Toto!...
Bless you, Toto.
 Uncle, the next time Granny comes to Rome, I want to come along too. I want to see what you do when you work...
 Fine. But I warn you, there isn't much to see. I sell much more smoke than fire...
 Watch out, don't get too familiar with those two  they're worse than cannibals. They'll take advantage.
You leaving tomorrow, Uncle?
I don't know, Filippo. I don't know...
 It must be for you...They've been calling all afternoon. They wanted to know if you're leaving this evening or tomorrow...
A double whisky, please.
him, through the glass, a stunning vision, which casts him beyond time, chills his blood: there before him is ELENA! But she is still young, young as she was then! Sweet, luminous, alluring, exactly the way he saw her the first time at the station.
Excuse me, Miss... (She turns to look at him, indifferent, but friendly. He looks at her wonderful blue eyes.) I'm so sorry, I thought you were someone else.
 Well.
What are you thinking, Toto?
I was thinking...that we've never talked, Mamma...When I was little I saw you as if you were already old. That's probably true with all kids... Who knows? (She nods, then sits down before him. He strokes her old, skinny, heavily veined hands...) But only now do I realize you were young, you were beautiful, had a whole life before you. But how...  ...how could you have lived alone all that time, with no one to look after you? You could have remarried...Why not? At the time I probably wouldn't have understood, but I would have later...
I never had anybody. If that's what you think...I didn't want anybody. I always remained faithful. First to your father, then to you, to Lia.  That's the way I'm made, there's nothing I can do about it.  And you're like me, you're too honest and too attached to the things you love...But I don't know if that's a good thing. Faithfulness is a bad business. If you're faithful, you're always alone! (SALVATORE is immersed in the profound truth of those words. And he says nothing. The silence is broken by the ringing of the phone. A menacing sound, which SALVATORE cannot bear. He knows they are calling him from Rome, gives a nervous gesture, stands up and pulls out the plug. The silence returns, the whistling of the wind. MARIA lowers her eyes.) It's my fault! It would have been better if I hadn't called you...
 No...It's nothing to do with you. It's just that I was scared of coming back. Now, after all these years, I thought I was strong, that I had forgotten lots of things. Instead, I find it's quite the opposite, as if I had never left. And yet, I look at Lia and feel as if I didn't know her, and you, Mamma...I abandoned you, ran away like a thief, thought only of myself, and never gave you an explanation...
 And I never asked for one! You have nothing to explain. I always thought that what you did was right, and that was that. With no beating around the bush...  Only one thing made me suffer: bolting the door shut before going to bed at night...
You never used to do that!
No, no...When you used to work at the movies, I could never get to sleep at night until you came home. Then when you arrived, I pretended to be asleep, but I heard all your movements. Then when you fell asleep, I'd get up and bolt the door. Then, when you left, every time I did it, I felt as if I had left somebody outside the door, far away.... (SALVATORE listens to his MOTHER'S words, surprised and entranced by the poetry of her way of speaking...) But you were right to leave. You succeeded in doing what you wanted to do...  When I call you, a different, woman always answers. I pretend I know them so they won't have to go through the embarrassment of introducing themselves.  I'm sure they take me for a crazy old woman. But so far I've never heard one voice that really loves you...I would have known. And yet, I'd like to see you...settled down...fall in love...  But your life's there. Here there are nothing but ghosts, Toto! Let it go.
 Boccia!
 His last name was Lo Meo, Vincenzo.
You want something?
I'd like to speak to Signora Elena...
Salvatore.
Di Vita. Salvatore Di Vita. Do you remember? (Another pause chilly, heavy. SALVATORE opens his eyes, looks at the window. Her shadow is motionless, as if cut out of cardboard.) Elena, I'm here, in the bar, across the street from your house.
Elena. I'd like to see you...Let's meet.
Please, don't say no.. .
Hello?
Salvatore!
How'd you know I'd be here?
You're still beautiful...
Don't be silly...I'm old. (She looks down troubled by the way he has of gazing into her eyes, speaks almost mumbling her words.) Don't look at me like that, please. (And she switches off the light. But this time it is less dark, things can be seen.) Why'd you come back?
Alfredo died. Do you remember him?
Of course I remember him. I'm sorry. You were terribly fond of him.
I saw your daughter. She's beautiful! Who knows how many Salvatores must be running after her...
 One or two. Bur there're not all that many Salvatores. (SALVATORE also smiles, but a puzzled smile as if what she has said had thrown him off-guard.) I've got a son, too...he's older. And you, do you have children?
No. And I'm not married. (ELENA sits there in silence. A veil of sadness clouds her eyes. SALVATORE'S too...) Are you happy?
All things considered, yes. Even if it wasn't what I dreamt of then...
My husband...you know him.
Sure, sure! Boccia...  What's he do?
Politics. He's the district representative. We met at the University in Pisa.
And...how come you never married that guy from Tuscany?
I didn't want to...I had to fight tooth and nail. But in the end I won... (SALVATORE is unable to smile. It's as if the void were growing and swelling within. Thunder and lightning shatter the roaring of the wind and sea, hut it does not rain. Now her smile Jades away.) At that time...I was waiting for you...
But I've never forgotten you, Elena!
 Nor have I. Even though you disappeared... (SALVATORE is staggered, feels as if he were plunging into the void. What she has said strikes him as grotesque. ELENA strokes his hair, as if to restrain his sinking heart, gives a sweet smile.) But what's the point of talking about it? We risk being pathetic and ridiculous. (And she tries to change the subject.) You still live in Rome?
What do you mean, you were waiting for me?! What are you saying? (He controls himself at once, continues, breathing heavily.) The last time we saw each other, we made a date to meet at the Cinema Paradiso. You remember? And you didn't come, you disappeared without leaving a trace, nothing! I'll tell you how many years have gone by: more than thirty!!!
I kept that date. (SALVATORE laughs at the absurdity of it. A nervous, heartbroken laugh, which slowly melts away as she goes on to say:) But I was late... (Tears continue to stream out of her blue eyes, but she tells her story in a calm voice.) I had a fight with my family. I tried to convince them again that they couldn't separate us. But it was futile. They had decided to leave Sicily once and for all. Which is what we did. I didn't know what to do any more, what to say. And I said yes, I'd do whatever they wanted. In return, my father promised to let me see you one last time, to say goodbye. But I hoped that by seeing each other we could take advantage of it and make a decision...I thought we would run away together. (She holds back her sobs. Dries her tears with the back of her hand, and continues:) My father drove me to the movie theatre. But you weren't in the projection booth. Only Alfredo...
 And I didn't have time to wait for you to comeback...
All right, Daddy!...
 So I told Alfredo how things stood and fiat I was leaving the same evening, and I asked him to tell you everything. He was very kind, he listened carefully, then...
Easy, easy.  Listen carefully to what I have to say. If you want me to tell Toto what you've told me, I will. But if you want my advice, forget it. It's better for both of you if you don't see each other... (YOUNG ELENA gives a start of resentment, listens with surprise.) Dear girl, fire always turns into ashes! Even the deepest love ends sooner or later. And after that other loves appear, lots of them. Toto, he can't understand fiat now. If I tell him he won't believe it, he' d be capable of killing me...But you can understand, you've got to understand...Do it for him!
It's the first time I've had to chance to tell the story. I never mentioned it to anybody.
 Alfredo, damn him! He cast his spell on you too!
I told him I'd take his advice. But before I went away I left you that note... (SALVATORE gives her a quick look, a questioning look. He listens.) I was on my way down the stairs... (Her voice continues, laid over the...)
But you disappeared all the same.
Oh, how I looked for you, Elena! You'll never know. I wrote, telephoned, nothing. Nobody ever answered. But I dreamt of you for years! That's why I went away...and never came back here. (And his anguish breaks free, dissolving into quiet, almost childish tears. ELENA is startled by his reaction. She caresses him, passionately. They embrace and remain like that, she with her face buried in his shoulder, he leaning on hers with his tear- filled eyes.) Even as the years passed, in all the women I met, I was only looking for you. I had success it's true, but there was always something missing... (She is deeply moved, goes on caressing him gently until he calms down. The car windows are steamed up. The sea, the harbor, the waves have disappeared. Nothing remains but the sound of the storm. SALVATORE takes her face between his hands. They gaze at each other, their faces practically touching. He murmurs:) I'd never have imagined that all this had to end because of the man who was like a father to me. A crazy lunatic! 
He wasn't crazy. In the beginning I was upset. I think I really hated him. But then, with time, I understood what he said...and your silence too.
But I never saw that note! (He squints, as if to stress the absurdity of the idea.) I must have covered it with my hand, without realizing it, that's the only explanation... (But strangely enough, ELENA is not surprised.)
What difference does it make to find an explanation? That's the way it went. But Alfredo didn't betray you, he was the only one who really understood you. Salvatore, if you had chosen to be with me, you'd have never made your films. And that would have been a pity! Because they're wonderful, I've seen them all. (Her eyes glitter with joy, then she smiles, almost ironically.) But you shouldn't have gone and changed your name. You should have kept your own.
These are the things he left to you...
When they showed your films on television, he was happy. He'd plop himself down there and all his ailments were forgotten. He knew all the words by heart, every one, and I'd describe what was going on. And when the papers talked about you, I had to read them two or three times...
Did he ever think of meeting me?
No, never! One time your mother said that if he wanted, you'd have surely come. He got furious and said  'No, Toto mustn't come back to Giancaldo, never!!' He didn't say it to be mean. He was a decent man. Who knows what he could have been thinking? Towards the end he'd say such strange things. And a moment before he shut his eyes, he told your mother not to let you know.
he recognizes from that time. He goes on thumbing through them, and all at once an astonished look appears on his face  in his hands is a receipt that has been turned over. It's the one! The message scribbled on it can still be seen. He reads it.
 Salvatore, forgive me. I'll explain later what happened. Not finding you here was terrible. Unfortunately, this evening, my mother and I are leaving for Tuscany. We're moving there. But you' re the only one I love, I'll never be with anybody else, I promise. Here's the address of a girlfriend of mine where you can write to me. Don't abandon me. Love and kisses, Elena.
When are you leaving?
This afternoon. Elena, in the future maybe we could...
No, Salvatore...there is no future. There's only the past. Even meeting last night was nothing but a dream, a beautiful dream.  We never did it when we were kids, remember? (Down in the cafe, SALVATORE nods his head slowly, desperately.) Now that it's happened, I don't think there could have been a better ending. (It's farewell. SALVATORE glances one last time at that window.)
I'll never agree with you. Never, Elena.
The square's mine, the square's mine, the square's mine...
Please check the splices. As soon as you're ready you can start.
OK. Congratulations on your film. It's terrific.
Thanks.
Well?
The distributor is opening up the film earlier. The press conference is in the afternoon. The actors will also be there, the producer, just about everyone.
The official notification of the award just came out, but we've already received a mountain of telegrams. Aren't you happy?
It's all right. We'll talk about it later.
