Come on... Just a little lower... WIDEN TO REVEAL a Middle School TOILET STALL. Standing on the lid of the closed toilet, holding the glass jar up over his head, is DARREN SHAN. Darren is 14 and a well-liked kid. Tenacious. Diligent. The spider just hangs there.
Come on... I'll take good care of you. All the bugs you can eat.
Hey, Darren! No answer. Steve walks along the stall, scoots low so he can see any feet in front of the bowls.
Did you fall in? Darren!
Shhh... Steve looks to the last stall, sees the jar being held up. INTERCUT from in and outside of the stall.
You're gonna scare him away.
Man, we're getting killed out there. It's three to nothing. Darren is all concentration as the spider drops a little.
Your problem, Steve, not mine... Steve gets a waggish idea. Stepping to the sink, pressing his forefinger over the spigot, he turns the faucet. WATER SHOOTS out in a stream, which Steve directs into and then over the stall door. Reacting, the spider zips up its thread, is lost in the darkened ceiling. The stall door opens. Dripping water, Darren stares at Steve who flashes a wicked grin...
GOAL! Three to one! The other team regroups, starts back upfield with the ball. Darren steals it. A few strides and WHUMP! Darren catches the goalie too far out. The ball lofts just over the backpedaling goalie's head, bounces into the goal.
What does that prove? Huh? The goalie blanches as Steve moves at him. Kids are nervous about Steve. He likes to fight. Darren gets between them.
Go get the ball. It's 3 to 2. Lunch's almost over.
That's why he kicked it. To kill time. Well, I still got time to kick your face.
Thanks, Darren. He's crazy. Darren watches after Steve. He does have a vicious streak.
Steve tracks down the ball which has rolled into the street. From seemingly out of nowhere... A gleaming black 1966 LINCOLN Continental. Its tires sucking at the asphalt as it rolls. The windows blacked out. It speeds up reaching the ball. Ba-Dump! The ball BURSTS.
You idiot! The car SCREECHES to a stop, idles ominously. Suddenly Steve doesn't seem so tough. He looks nervously back to Darren. But as a WIND picks up, the Lincoln suddenly tears off. A sheet of PAPER is kicked up by one of the car tires. The wind sends it sailing. It drifts down, until... Steve notices, snatches it out of the air. Darren steps up beside him, watches the Lincoln disappear down the street. Creepy...
Look at this. The paper is a FLYER. A startling, violent layout. Beneath a snarling WOLF'S HEAD: CIROUE DU FREAK - Human oddities and other living curiosities. Midnight. Zeiterion Theater. $20 - Admission is at the discretion of the proprietor.
.Human oddities and other living curiosities...
A freak show. Ever been to one?
As you can see reptiles and amphibians are not one in the same. As Mr. Dalton continues, we see various PAIRS OF STUDENTS, their computer screens showing text or pictures of various FROGS, ALLIGATORS and LIZARDS... DARREN and STEVE sit together staring at a Komodo Dragon. After Mr. Dalton passes by, Steve switches screen views. He's done a WebSearch of Cirque du Freak. There are a dozen or so entries. He picks one: History of the Side Show. Under 1920's there's an older, much more 'Victorian' pamphlet for the Cirque du Freak. A more ornate version of the same Wolf Head. The same notice from the proprietor. Steve spreads the flyer out to compare. They whisper:
Must be a different one. Steve scrolls down through pictures:
I gotta show you something...
I don't get it.
Vampires. I've been studying them. Vampires? Darren looks at him a beat.
Right. You're failing half your classes at school, but you're studying vampires.
They been around 1000's of years. Two tribes. They even fight wars.
What? When?
Okay, sometimes, when humans fight? They fight at the same time. And no one knows it. Like at the Battle of Stalingrad they fought at the same time the Russians and Germans were fighting. Darren just looks at him, wonders if he's serious.
Some people know about it. There have even been books written. He pulls a frayed old yellow hardcover from his bag.
That's your proof? It smells. Steve's really trying to convince him now.
It's everywhere if you look. On the internet, in blogs, newspapers, weird places. But you can find it. The room starts to tighten a notch around them.
I chatted online with one of them.
Come on.
Serious. We become aware of...
What was his name? Mr. Dracula? Mad now, Steve opens the book, flips pages, finds an old 19th Century painting. He slaps down the science lab internet print-out of Larten Crepsley. It's the same guy! Maybe...
Here he is in 1923. And here 1855. Huh? Maybe he'll be there tonight. Would that make you believe? As Darren looks them over, the POV looms up behind them. Suddenly Darren spins... And ROARS at what's behind them: his sister Annie. She SCREAMS in response. Steve jumps a mile. Darren LAUGHS.
How'd you know?
Saw your shadow on the floor. Gotta try harder, knucklehead. Steve snaps his book shut, shoves it in his backpack.
I'm gonna get a soda.
Get me one, too. Steve gets up, stomps out of the room.
I know you want to fight global warming, Darren, but that's not the way to do it. Steve leans back to show his face.
Sorry, Mrs. Shan.
Oh hi, Steve. I thought you were, Darren.
I wish I was.
Help yourself. She sets her PURSE down on the counter.
How's your mother?
She's okay... She's been working a lot lately. A little frown of concern crosses Darren's mom. Something about Steve... His mom... He brings out a bottle of soda.
I know. Darren's mom exits as Steve pulls down two glasses, starts to pour soda. As he waits for the foam to settle, he sees... The purse. Just there. A quick look around, it doesn't take him long to decide. Steve steps over, opens the purse. A quick rifling finds a wallet: $200 in $20's. He peels off three bills, shoves them in his pocket. BLLEEEP! A cell phone starts going off in the purse. Fumbling, frantic, Steve stuffs the rest of the money back in the wallet, the wallet back in the purse, closes the purse -- Darren's Mom is back in. She's hurrying to get to her celiphone, so...
Darren's looking through Steve's vampire memorabilia. Steve reaches past, starts packing it up.
I gotta go. See ya tonight.
Huh? Tonight where? He zips the bag, slings it over his shoulder.
Cirque du Freak.
I got no money right now.
Don't sweat it. I got money. Meet me ten to Midnight. The Zeiterion Theater.
That place is supposed to be haunted. Steve rolls his eyes, starts out...
What am I going to tell my parents?
Tell them you're sleeping over. We can meet early, walk over together.
I don't know, man...
D, it's Cirque du Freak. You wanna hear about it Monday? Or see it tonight? Steve lets his point sink in, then goes.
And that's why we need a dog. She waits for an answer. Mom and Dad exchange a look.
We'll have to think about it.
How do you guys decide who's going to say no when you look at each other.
Whoever's eyes are the widest. And I didn't say no. Yet. As she tries to think through a new approach...
Mom? I'm gonna sleep over Steve's tonight? Okay?
 No.
What? Why not?
Because I said so, Darren.
I'm fourteen. I shouldn't even have to ask stuff like this.
The answer is no. And I'm not sure I want you hanging around with Steve anymore.
I've known him since I was five years old!
People change and I don't like the way Steve's changing.
But -- That's not fair!
Stop arguing with her, Darren. Furious at his treatment, Darren gets up, stomps out. As Annie wonders if she should ask what's up...
I came here after your house. There was a van there, guy selling tickets.  Rest is history. They cross toward the ornate, albeit crumbling facade of the ZEITERION THEATER. Deserted, except for a few CANDLES burning on the sidewalk by a door. The wind moans.
You know why they closed it, right? Years ago a kid fell out of the balcony and died. It's haunted.
Get inside.
They move toward a light at the end. Darren pauses at a darkened staircase. Headed up. He points it out to Steve...
The balcony. Where he fell...
May I help you? They wheel around, react to the sight behind them. MR. TALL. Gaunt, but oozing an elegant toughness.
We're here to see the show. He takes an ominous step forward, then holds out a hand.
Ticket. Steve hands it over. Mr. Tall pockets it, looks to Darren.
Do you have your ticket? Darren. Darren starts to hand it over, hesitates. The guy knew his name. Mr. Tall reaches, takes it.
This way. We're about to begin. Mr. Tall turns on his heel and strides off. As they follow:
Maybe he heard me say it.
When they turn it, Mr. Tall is gone. Vanished. Ahead, a threadbare velvet CURTAIN. A low murmur on the other side. The boys exchange a last look, then push through into...
Ladies and Gentlemen. Welcome to the Cirque du Freak. We are an ancient circus. We have toured for five hundred years...
.Bringing the remarkable and grotesque to generations. Our freaks are not people in masks. They are not harmless misfits. What you see tonight is real. Each performer unique. None harmless. To prove this, the Wolfman lunges, reaches a claw through the bars to swipe just centimeters short of Mr. Tall who's non- reaction shows he knows exactly where he's standing. A ripple goes through the crowd as they become aware of TRUSKA. Startlingly beautiful. Dressed for the Moulin Rouge. Crossing the stage in a languid catwalk. Several MEN in the audience begin to cough and shift in their seats. Even the Wolfman takes notice.
Beauty and the beast. Truska approaches the cage, makes soothing motions, her upper body swaying. The Wolfman lulls to a trance. Two stage hands - MIDGETS apparently, hidden by blue robes, step out and start to push the cage off stage. Truska steps toward the audience, moving in the same languorous rhythm. And then: she begins to grow a BEARD. Hairs creeping from above her lip, curling from her chin. Some in the audience recoil. Darren and Steve trade grins. This is great. Then... From either wing of the stage come twin contortionists: SIVE & SERSA. They walk on their hands, their legs pulled back with their ankles cinched behind there necks. As Truska exits, Sive and Sersa meet in the middle. Like Hindu wrestlers they take turns, climbing up and down each other, look like one person with two fronts. They twist like pretzels, getting huge LAUGHS when they pretend to be stuck. As it goes on, RHAMUS TWOBELLIES pads out to watch. The floorboards creak under his feet. He must weigh 600 pounds. After a moment, he turns, walks toward the audience. The light leaves the contortionists and focuses on Rhamus.
My name is Rhamus Twobellies. And I do have two. He TRIPS, stumbles toward the edge of the stage. PEOPLE in the front row jump back to keep from being crushed. Rhamus stops short, LAUGHS at them. He was pretending. He's practically doubled-over, resting his hands on his haunches. More blue-robed MIDGETS roll out a CART covered with food and lots of other stuff. Rhamus grabs a GLASS BOTTLE of soda. Instead of opening it, he bites off the glass top, chews it and swallows. Soon he's eating food almost as fast as he can grab it. Disgusting, but great fun at the same time. Next, he holds up a couple of nuts and bolts. Then swallows them whole. He swings his belly around. You can hear the sound of metal shifting inside. The crowd recoils as he starts to regurgitate, spitting out BOLTS, NAILS, BOTTLE CAPS, a JACKKNIFE. They clatter on stage. Finally, a METAL LINK appears between his teeth. He pinches hold of it and pulls. A CHAIN starts out of his mouth, up from his belly. One foot...two...six feet in all. With a shrug he starts off stage, dragging it behind him. Darren & Steve break into applause. So does the audience. As Rhamus' chain slides out of sight, a SNAKE slides in. An enormous BOA CONSTRICTOR. Impossibly huge. It slithers out to the center of the stage, its tongue flicking in and out. A SPOTLIGHT flicks down from above. The snake stops, raises itself several feet off the ground as it looks up, seemingly transfixed by the light. But in reality... The end of a thick ROPE drops down. And moving down the rope is a BOY. Very thin, his blonde hair tinged with green. This is EVRA VON. He moves smoothly, twists over backwards to set his feet down on the stage. Evra wears a sort of cloak which he suddenly spins out of. The audience GASPS... Wearing only shorts, Evra's body SPARKLES. He's covered in gold, blue and green scales! He moves a vaguely webbed hand through the air, charming the snake which raises itself higher still. He slowly slides forward till he and the boa are nearly eye-to-eye. Then Evra leans forward and KISSES the snake on the nose.
He's as old as us.
Evra starts to make a HISSING sound. In response, the snake begins corkscrewing around him like the stripes on a barber shop pole. Finally, it slithers around his neck, pulls back to look him in the eye. And then... Evra bends at the knees, lays down and starts to roll. Like he was wrapped in a snake carpet, he disappears stage left. More applause from the audience. Then the stage goes dark except for a small focused spot at the center. Everyone waits, but nothing happens until... Appearing literally out of nowhere - one instant there's nothing under the spot and the next instant there is --
Motionless, looking past the crowd. The only difference from his pictures is he's a bit older and a SCAR runs down his left cheek. It stretches his mouth up on that side.
It's him...
Crepsley disappears! The crowd mumble nervously. And just as suddenly he's back! On the edge of the stage, lit by the footlights. This time he holds a draped BIRDCAGE.
It's not true. That all tarantulas are poisonous. Though some can kill a man. With one bite. Crepsley whisks off the covering. In the cage: a TARANTULA the size of a large man's hand. So big you can make out individual eyes. As deadly looking as it is beautiful.
Reacts. A spider!
Crepsley makes the introduction.
Her name? Madam Octa. Pray that she never learns yours. Two of the blue-robed 'little people' lead a GOAT onto the stage. A ripple of worry runs through the crowd. Crepsley starts over. The goat BLEATS. The little people hold it. Mr. Crepsley flicks open the cage door with his finger. The spider sets its front legs on the bars, pulls itself through. A few gasps from the audience. The goat bucks. Madam Octa bares her fangs, poised to leap on her prey. Several audience members CRY OUT that this should stop. Crepsley looks out with mock-theatrical surprise.
No...? Shall it be life? Chuckling to himself, he looks to the goat tenders. They release the goat which bee-lines its way off the stage. Crepsley faces the audience.
I wonder if you would be as shocked to see the same fate for me? Madam Octa moves -- climbing the outside of the cage -- taking a cautious step onto the hand holding the cage, then starting up Crepsley's arm. He stands dead still.
Madam Octa has nearly reached Crepsley's left shoulder.
Though we have been together such a long time, she is no pet. I think she would quite enjoy killing me. Crepsley calmly raises his free hand. It holds a shiny TIN WHISTLE. Madam Octa has reaches his shoulder.
For her bite there is no cure. Madam Octa bares her fangs, even longer now. Her malevolence about to be directed at her master. Crepsley carefully puts the whistle to his mouth and starts to play, as simple as it is evocative. Madam Octa hesitates. Then, she moves around his throat, starts to climb his face using his scar as her guide. She gets to the top of his head, stands in his shock of hair. She sways; she's dancing! Then she leaps, lands on the end of the whistle. Crepsley keeps playing as Madam Octa attaches a web, drops down about 18 inches off the end. She starts to swing. Crepsley takes the whistle from his mouth and twirls it around. Octa does a few 360s and the thread breaks. She sails up high over Crepsley's head. He cranes back to watch as down she comes, legs splayed. She lands flat on his face. The whistle is in his hand. Crepsley looks out at the audience. Looking out between her hairy legs, his eyes are wide with horror. Without warning, the spotlight on him goes out. As the stage is plunged into darkness, we hear Crepsley SCREAM. A horrible, horrible sound. The audience wait, but nothing happens. Some of them rise from their seats, peer into the gloom. It's too dark. The sound of something being DRAGGED. Then nothing. A light comes up stage left as Mr. Tall steps out.
Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. That is the end of our show.
But... What happened to him?!
Don't you know? What happens to us all, can happen to any of us. That said, there's a crack of thunder and an explosion seemingly at Mr. Tall's feet. He's nowhere to be seen.
Let's get outta here.
No, you go. I'm staying. Steve starts down toward the stage. Darren follows.
Wait. What're you doing? Steve reaches the stage, looks around. The audience is mostly exited; no one from the Cirque is in sight. As Steve starts up onto the stage, Darren grabs his shoulder. Steve wheels, shoves Darren who stumbles back into a seat.
This is my destiny. Don't ruin it. Steve looks dangerous as he looms. Darren raises his hands in surrender. Steve eases off, but he's still intense.
That car today. It was a sign. Sending me here. I was told there'd be a sign. Too friggin' weird.
Told by who? The guy in the chat room? The internet guy?
I'll tell you later. If I can. Steve scrambles onto the stage and disappears into the back. Darren stands, whispers into the dark.
Steve... Decision time. Darren climbs up, starts after his friend.
Steve...? No answer. Darren decides, starts down steep, rickety steps.
Coming down the creaky stairs. Spooky.
Steve...
Turning a corner, is startled by what turns out to be a costume mannequin. But beyond: a LONG BOX set on two sawhorses. Coffin-sized. Empty, its lid propped up by it. The dust is tracked with footsteps. A mini-FRIDGE hums in a corner. Steve steps over, sees an EXTENSION CORD which runs up the wall, disappears into a hole punched in the ceiling.
Stops short as a LIGHT suddenly cuts through the gloom to his left. Darren steps over low behind a CREDENZA. He sees...
He's opened the door to the fridge. The little bulb inside pushes through the gloom, lighting the area up.
Reacts as MADAM OCTA tries to jump on his face! The bars of her CAGE stop her. It rests on the credenza he crouches behind. The whistle is there too. Darren looks over as...
Reaches in the fridge, takes out a glass jar that looks to be filled with BLOOD. Steve raises it, swirls it around inside.
Are you looking for me? Steve whirls -- drops the bottle -- SMASH! Standing behind him - dead still - CREPSLEY.
Rooted to the spot. Watching...
I -- I know who you are.
Tell me, boy. Who am I?
You're a vampire.
Too broad a definition. Do you introduce yourself as a human? Who I am is Larten Crepsley.
Moving slightly to get a clearer view.
Who sent you and what do they want?
Nothing. No one. Crepsley takes a moment to decide if he believes him.
Then what do you want?
I want to join you.
Join me? I don't understand.
I want you to make me a vampire. Not what Crepsley  expected. Steve stands there trying to look resolved. Crepsley is surprised, intrigued.
Is it because you want to live forever? Because we don't.
I don't care about living forever. But you do seem to live a long time.
A long time alone. Do you want to live alone?
I already do.
Are you an orphan?
My father's gone; my mother doesn't care about me.
Nor mine. You're friendless also?
I have a friend, but he doesn't understand. He's got too much to know what it's like to be alone. As Darren reacts to this...
When you're alone you feel weak. Useless. But I know there must be something strong about it, too. I want to feel the power of being alone. I want to be a vampire.
The power of being alone will never be greater than the weakness of it.
I don't care. Crepsley's actually impressed, but after a moment he waves a dismissive hand.
It makes no matter. We do not blood children. I'm sorry. Steve pulls a JACKKNIFE from his pocket, flips open the 2- inch blade. Crepsley laughs out loud.
Do you intend to use that on me? And we feel it more than see it, but Steve cuts into his own palm. He holds it up, moist and red in Crepsley's face.
Do it. Make me a vampire.
Do not tempt me.
Can't believe what he's watching. He sees Crepsley suddenly get 'scent' of something. Something to do with Steve's blood. Not quite a clear view as Crepsley grabs Steve's wrist, dabs a finger into his palm and then tastes it.
Crepsley shoves Steve down to the ground and immediately begins spitting onto the floor. Like it was poison.
What's wrong?
You have bad blood.
What do you mean?
I can taste the menace in your blood. You can never be a vampire. You're evil. Steve scrambles to his feet.
That's a lie. You take that back! Crepsley draws himself full, his voice deadly.
Go home. Suddenly cowed, Steve just stands there blinking.
Steve runs, disappears into the gloom. After a moment, we can hear him scurrying up the stairs. Then he's gone.
Frozen to his spot, watches as Crepsley, seemingly ill, holds his head and spits again onto the floor. Then he steps over and kicks the fridge door closed. And in the blink of an eye, he's gone. Disappeared. Darren is alone. He starts out, then stops. Looks back. That beautiful spider. And Darren takes Madam Octa's cage and the whistle and makes a run for it. Just like that.
Oh. You want that? Darren picks up the worm, lowers it between the bars. A beat and then Madam Octa snatches it away from him. Dinner.
See? I'm your friend... You're so beautiful I stopped thinking. The wind rustles. Darren grabs the cage, continues.
Get inside. From his angle, Darren's Dad can't see the cage in his son's hand. Darren hooks it over the end piece of part of the trellis and climbs in. Leaving the cage hanging behind.
A freak show? Are you kidding me?
It was down at the old Zeiterion Theater. Look, dad, I'm sorry. It's just, I couldn't resist. I --
You told me the other day you were broke. You were looking for a job to do around the house this weekend.
Yeah? So?
Where'd you get money for the show?
Steve had money. Darren's Dad's suspicion is confirmed.
Steve... We weren't going to tell you, but we think Steve stole money from your Mom's purse yesterday.
He wouldn't do that.
Mom's pretty sure about it.
Man, what is this? You don't want me hanging around with him. Now you say you think he stole money? Do you know for sure?
No.
Steve's had some bad times lately. I'm trying to be a good friend.
Being a good friend and sneaking out are two different things.
I have to sneak out! You treat me like a kid! A moment as Darren's raised voice rings out of the room.
Then act like an adult if that's how you want to be treated. This world is crossed by fences -- Darren interrupts. He's heard it a million times.
I know, I know. And you gotta decide which side you stand on. And you can't sit on it either. His Dad doesn't enjoy hearing his words thrown back at him. He starts for the door, looks back before exiting.
A freak show. What do they do, put people in cages for everyone to laugh at?
It wasn't like that. A beat. Darren's Dad goes, closing the door. Darren sighs. He goes to the window, pulls up the cage. He scans a look outside. Except for his Dad, the coast is clear.
Is he in a lot of trouble?
Nothing a few years in prison won't take care of.
I don't see what the big deal is...
Get this. She said she couldn't comment because she didn't make it home last night herself.
Where was she?
Go tell Darren it's breakfast.
Darren's just snapped her photo with his DIGITAL CAMERA. As the door bursts open and Annie enters... Darren scrambles to block the cage from view.
Annie, you gotta learn to knock.
Mom said to come eat. What's that? As Annie tries to look, Darren stays in front of her.
Out. Annie sighs, heads out. Darren puts the cage in the closet.
Mom, this is the best omelette I ever had. His Dad can't help but smile. Good move. Mom is pleased, but knows she's being manipulated. As Annie stifles a laugh, Darren shoots her a look. A KNOCK at the kitchen door. Annie gets up, opens the door to reveal: Steve. From his angle he can only sees Annie.
Hey, midget, where's the idiot? Annie motions Steve in. He stops short when he see everyone else. He recovers, does his best Eddie Haskell...
Hi, Mr. Shan, Mrs. Shan. It's nice to see ya. As Steve gets several less than welcoming looks...
What was that? Everyone acting like they don't know me. Did I walk in on something? Darren closes the door. Gets to the point.
What happened last night?
Nothing. I hung out in the theater for awhile, but no one was around. The lie hangs in the air a moment.
Sorry about the way I acted. I'm sorry I pushed you.
Don't worry. There's, you know, no bad blood or anything like that.
What?
I said don't worry.
You said bad blood. I never heard you say something like that before.
What are you, the word police? Steve gives him a look. A weird tension in the air. Darren glances at the bandage on Steve's palm, changes the topic.
Wanna see that new game I got?
Sure... Darren steps over, starts his computer up. While waiting, Steve sees the digital camera on the dresser, picks it up.
I gotta get one of these. Steve switches it on. Something occurs to Darren too late...
Let me see that -- On the screen: the PHOTO OF MADAM OCTA. Steve twists around to keep the camera out of Darren's reach.
It's Madam Octa.
I took it at the show.
Liar. Look at the background. This got taken right on your desk. Darren's caught. As they just stare at each other.
In her cage, on the desk. Darren and Steve looking her over.
How'd you do it?
They were loading a van outside. I, I just took her.
Just like that...  You stole from a vampire you know?
Just because he had a coffin doesn't mean he's really a... Darren trails off. Steve realizes Darren saw the coffin.
You were there, weren't you?
I didn't believe it. Steve studies Darren, hopes that's true.
I heard what you said to him, too. That you wanted to be a vampire. Steve doesn't want to talk about it. He looks at Madam Octa.
How do you think he made her do what he wanted? Darren opens his desk drawer, pulls out the flute.
I wish I knew how to play it.
I think that was just for show. I think he used something else. Some kind of mind control.
You mean telepathy?
I bet anyone with a brain could do it. Which leaves you out. Steve smiles, gives Darren a little punch in the arm. The tension is loosening. They react to a KNOCK on the door.
Can I come in? Darren goes to the door. Opens it a few inches.
I swear to God, Annie...
What? I knocked. As they talk, Steve opens the cage door. Madam Octa sets her arms on the edge, pulls herself out.
Lands on Steve's shoulder. Her fangs, wet with poison, glint just before she sinks them into Steve's throat. She BITES!
Steve... Annie reaches out, takes Steve's hand.
Darren, he's freezing.
Get dad. Go.
What kind of spider was it?
I think some kind of a tarantula.
Where is it?
It got away. Darren's Dad holds up the camera.
We have a picture of it. The doctor takes it as a NURSE meets the gurney.
Anaphylactic shock. Get Doctor Lund. And we need to download a photo to poison control. This is as far as Darren goes. Steve is wheeled in, surrounded. Syringes are drawn, handed in. All we can see of Steve is one skinny arm hanging out. PUSH IN ON DARREN. Sick for Steve. Scared. Unaware that his world has only just started to crash down around him.
How did you make this and why would you make this? Darren's Mom and Dad start over from down the corridor.
Poison control couldn't ID it. In fact, the department of Entomology at Harvard couldn't find it in their data base. So either it's a new species or it's a fake photo.
If my son said he took that photo, then that's the truth. Dr. Lund just stares at Darren. Then:
What have you done to him?! STEVE'S MOM approaches, her eyes on Darren. Disheveled, cheap looking, she hasn't quite started her hangover yet. She lunges past Darren's dad, grabs Darren by the shoulder.
Did you hurt Stevie?! Did you?!
Your friend's going to die unless we find out what's in him. On Darren. He looks down to where light spills out from Steve's room. His friend is going to die in there.
Hello?
Where he stops short, sees in the center of the stage -- Crepsley's COFFIN. A beat and Darren steps up. He grips the lid, starts sliding it back. He looks inside to see --
What have you come for this time? Darren pulls out a CRUCIFIX, holds it in Crepsley's face. The vampire takes it, looks it over. It has no effect.
Crosses don't hurt you?
Why should they?
Because... you're evil.
Am I? Are vampire bats evil when they drink the blood of cows?
That's different. Bats are animals.
So am I. So are you. Our appetites don't make us evil.  Why are you here?
Your spider bit my friend Steve. Crepsley shrugs, tosses Darren back his crucifix.
He's dying.
Yes, well, boys who play with things they do not understand can hardly complain if --
You have to help him!
The antidote to her poison is rare. Expensive. Why should someone as evil as I am waste it on Steve?
I'll pay you back. If it takes 50 years. Whatever it costs.
Money doesn't interest me.
There's something you want. That's why you're here waiting for me. Right? Crepsley's surprised and pleased by Darren's intuitiveness.
The night Steve came below to speak to me, you were there. Did you hear what we talked about?
He wanted to... become like you.
You don't just 'become' a vampire. The change is too extreme. And if the shock didn't kill you, your inexperience would. So you become one in stages. A half-vampire at first. With greater strength than a human, but still able to go out in sunlight. You learn from a full vampire. Do you understand?
I think so...
But your friend has bad blood. He's no good. There's no telling what he'll become as he matures.
I don't believe that someone can have bad blood.
And yesterday you didn't believe in vampires. Regardless, I've left the Cirque. Left my protection. I need someone to protect me while I sleep. I need an apprentice.
You're crazy. There's no way.
Then your friend will die. The words hang in the air. Crepsley smiles.
You hardly have a choice. It's your destiny.
Destiny? That doesn't make sense.
Try this then. You're reckless enough to steal, responsible enough to come back for a friend. That's enough for me.
Not for me.
Yes, well, destiny can't be explained. It must be lived. Now, you're wasting my time.
There's gotta be another way.
There isn't.
Please... He's my friend.
And he slips away while we argue. Life or death? Yes or no?
You'd never be able to trust me. If I got a chance for payback I'd take it.
Yes or no? Thoughts rush, then stop. Darren finally just nods. Crepsley raises his right hand. The nails are not especially long, but they look thick and sharp. Crepsley takes Darren's hand, jabs at his forefinger, draws blood. He dabs off a drop, smells it, then tastes it.
You have good blood. Crepsley lifts his own left hand. He presses the nails of his right into the fleshy tips of his left hand fingers. Then he uses the left nails to mark the right fingers in the same way. Blood drips down all ten fingers.
Lift your hands. Darren does as he's told. Crepsley digs all ten nails into all ten of Darren's fingertips. Darren jerks back in pain.
Get used to pain. More lies ahead. He motions to his hands. Darren raises them, fingers spread. Crepsley presses his fingertips to Darren's. Blood brothers. As their eyes lock, Darren frowns at an alien sensation.
The blood flows into your left arm and out of your right. Do you feel it? Getting near your heart? Darren nods, shivers.
Almost there. A force arcs through Darren's body. He screams, falls down.
The world will start to slow down. You'll become a witness of time.  Your friend's time is running out. He pulls Darren to his feet.
Take my arm. Don't let go. Darren takes hold. Crepsley starts to move. Only it seems more like he's still and the ground is moving under his feet. Darren looks about as the building begin to streak past, the road a blurred ribbon. The night has a weird chromatic look. The world moving faster, Crepsley and Darren slipping past. A moment later and they're in the...
Lick your fingers. Vampire spit will stop wounds from bleeding. Darren looks at his fingers, then around the lot.
How'd we get here?
It's called flitting. Which room is your friend in?
We're in time. He still has a few minutes left. Crepsley takes a small AMBER VIAL from his pocket. He breaks a wax seal then pinches out a small blackened cork. He pulls the drip line out of the IV CATHETER and empties a drop of the vial's dark, viscous contents inside. It swirls murkily, coloring the liquid on its way into Steve's arm. A beat and then Steve seems to convulse, his arms and legs twitching. Is he dying?
What's happening?
He was near death. The journey back is not pleasant. What do you know about him, this boy with bad blood?
He's my friend.
Hmm... Who's his father?
Never met him. I don't think Steve ever did either. Why do you want to know? And then Steve comes around. He opens his eyes, focuses on Darren for a moment. He looks puzzled.
Darren? And then he drifts off, asleep. His breathing growing deeper, steadier. Darren realizing he's going to be okay.
Will you come with me now or do you have things to set in order first? That's when it really hits home. He's agreed to leave every- thing and go off with a vampire. Without really thinking, Darren starts backing toward the door, his eyes on Crepsley.
I see... Darren's almost to the door. Crepsley stays where he is.
Run if you want. It won't help. You're a creature of the night now, Darren Shan. Darren turns and bolts leaving Crepsley alone. Chuckling, the vampire tucks Steve's covers up under his chin.
Darren... Wake up, honey. Darren wakes with a start as she gives him a little shake. As he looks about, wonders what reality he's in.
I just got off the phone. Great news. Steve's going to be okay.
What?
The hospital says it's a miracle. Was it a dream? Darren looks down at his hands. On the tip of each finger and two thumbs are small round WHITE SCARS. Darren instinctively hugs his mom. She thinks he's overjoyed, can't see his look of terror. She hugs him back.
Yeah, it's great news. I know how you feel.
Boo! Darren nearly jumps out of his skin. Annie laughs.
Got you! I finally got you! - Darren turns on her, looks like he could kill her.
Don't ever do that again. Annie's smile drops away. As Darren continues on...
Hey, Shan, you gotta see this. They duck into the classroom. Darren follows.
TWENTY or so KIDS all pressed around the Boa Constrictor tank. Steve holds court.
.Doctor said it was a miracle. They say I'm unique -- Steve spots Darren as he steps up in the back.
Hey, Darren. I've been looking for you. We got a lot to talk about.
Yeah?
But first... Steve holds out a fist. A MOUSE pokes its head out through an opening in the hand. Its whiskers twitch. As Darren looks from the mouse to the snake... Steve addresses the kids does his best 'Mr. Tall'. He tries to be entertaining, but he comes off creepy.
Welcome to Cirque du Steve. What happens to us all can happen to any of us. If you watch, it's by your own free will. Say farewell...
.to Crepsley the mouse. Darren reacts to the name. Steve lowers his hand into the terrarium. Some kids already look away, others are intent.
Steve hesitates. Darren pushes to the front.
It's cruel.
It's nature. Anyhow don't watch.
What happened to the spider?
I killed it. Steve hesitates, processes, looks Darren over.
I had a dream. You and Crepsley were in my hospital room...
Tell me about it later. Darren starts away. Steve grabs him hard, spins him around.
I'll tell you now. Darren reacts instinctively, grabs Steve with his free hand and SLAMS him against the wall. Steve's nearly off the ground, only his left toe touching.
I said later. Darren lets go, heads off. Steve watches, wonders.
Darren! Wait up! He looks over his shoulder, keep going.
Can I walk home with you? He softens, slows down. After a few silent steps.
Got you something. Darren pulls the MOUSE from his pocket. Annie loves it, cups it in her hand.
He's adorable.
Annie SCREAMS as a GERMAN SHEPHERD charges, stops just short of them. GROWLING like it was rabid. Like it hates Darren. Darren steps between it and Annie. Darren's pupils dilate oddly; he curls his lip to show his own teeth. The dog starts to back off..
Hey. That's King.
No it's not. King's my buddy.
That's King, Darren. It is. Darren realizes it is King. As Darren realizes something's wrong with Darren.. Another growl. From down the street. Darren looks back as a black 1966 LINCOLN prowls through the intersection. The one seen at school. It slows, windows blacked out. As it continues, disappears from view...
Come on. As Darren hurries Annie along down the street...
How was school today?
The usual. Sometimes it was boring, sometimes really boring. Darren's mom laughs. Then...
Ouch! She drops the knife on the cutting board. A thick drop of BLOOD runs down her finger. Darren flinches at the sight and in that moment we PUNCH INTO his eyes. The PUPILS swirl red; the IRISES flatten and narrow. A dark, ravenous look.
Standing at the blood's seeming siren call. But as he suddenly moves forward, she turns away. Darren stops as she wraps her finger in a paper towel. She looks back at him: misunderstands his hunger for concern.
It's okay, honey. I just need a band-aid. Darren looks at his mom's neck. His eyes zero in on a little blue VEIN PULSING away. She leaves the room to get a band- aid. As Darren's horror sinks in...
You're different...
Hello? Hey! Crepsley appears. Darren turns, sees him. A beat. Crepsley raises his hands to the gloom around them.
The darkness isn't so scary anymore, is it?
I'm starting to think it's me that's scary. Crepsley waits to hear more.
It's only gonna get worse, isn't it? There's no way back, is there? No magic potion to make me human again? Crepsley shakes his head. Darren nods that he understands.
We made a deal. I won't run away again.
It's neither here nor there, but, I do feel sorry for you. Darren waves it off, doesn't want to hear it.
Are you ready then? The night is young. We can make many miles.
I can't just -- My family, I can't let them think I just left them. Or that something happened to me. My mother would... She couldn't... As Darren trails off, Crepsley really does look sympathetic.
There's only one thing for it.
What?
We'll have to kill you.
I'm going to bed. They say 'good night' to him. Impulsively, Darren kisses his dad on the cheek, then does the same to his mom.
I love you both. I don't say it that much, but I do. Darren's Mom is caught off guard, but happy to hear it.
We love you, too. Don't we, Tommy?
Of course we do. Darren looks at them a beat, then smiles, satisfied.
Good night. They watch him go, then exchange looks.
Goodbye, knucklehead. If I can ever help you, I will.
Shut up. Off Crepsley's reaction...
This is my home and I'm never gonna see it again, so don't rush me. Crepsley makes a motion to zip his lips. All the same, he stands, unscrews the bottle as Darren takes a last look around. He takes a PHOTO of his family off the dresser.
Hold onto this for me, okay? Crepsley takes the photo, offers Darren the bottle in return. Darren sniffs, recoils at the foul smell.
You're sure it will work? Crepsley opens the window.
Your heart will slow down so drastically they won't find a pulse. With the fall from the window, they'll think you're dead.
What if I break bones?
Even better. They'll mend in a few days. Vampires don't stay broken for long and it takes a very long fall to kill one.
And the funeral home? Won't they embalm me or something?
Don't worry. I have ways of making my thoughts become the thoughts of others. They'll leave you alone.
My dad's allergic to grass. It's my job to cut the lawn.
You have a new job now. Drink. Darren steels himself, gulps it down, hands the bottle back.
So this is destiny, huh? Tastes like crap. Darren body seizes up. He lets go, but Crepsley grabs him.
Your breathing is slowing, your heart as well. Do you feel it? Darren can't answer. He blinks his eyes 'yes' instead.
You may be aware of what's going on around you. Remember, the grief that you hear will be a release for those who express it. Darren's eyes drift shut. Crepsley lets him go.
No, no, come on -- The Neighbor stops short as he sees the body.
Hey -- Hey, kid -- He rolls Darren over, realizes something is very wrong.
Darren? Darren! A moment later his Mom...
Darren! Oh my God! We're still on Darren's face, his eye open a slit.
His parents hovering over him in despair. The STARS TWINKLE. The neighbor leans in.
Is he dead?
Cause of death is trauma from the impact of the fall. Poor kid.
Are we doing an autopsy?
I'm not going to cut open a kid. Not when I don't have to.
He's still cute.
I always had a crush on him. The Goalie from school soccer is next. He holds a little SOCCER BALL in his hand. Tucks it into the coffin.
For the next life, Shan. Top right corner every time. Annie steps up, gently strokes her brother's cheek. Then suddenly overwhelmed, she buries her face in their Dad's chest. He leans in tenderly over his son. Choked up:
I love you, Darren. You said it the other night; I didn't say it back.
Of the ceiling for a moment, then a blinding light flashing back and forth. Then glimpses of Steve's face!
Steve holds Darren's eye open, shines a PENLIGHT into it. The pupil doesn't dilate. Footsteps approach. Steve switches it off, pockets it as the FUNERAL DIRECTOR enters.
I'm sorry. I know it's difficult, but visiting hours are over. Steve nods sadly, looks to Darren. He pats one of Darren's hands which are folded across his chest. In reality Steve checks Darren's fingertips. A WHITE SCAR at the end of each one. Steve's crazy idea may be confirmed.
Ashes to ashes, dust to dust, in sure and certain hope of the resurrection to come... Darren's Dad tosses a handful of earth down onto the coffin.
On your feet.
My legs are asleep.
Walk it off. I'll fill this back in. Go. Breathe some air. Crepsley closes the coffin, begins to fill the hole as Darren ambles off. Not exactly the start of his best day.
What are you doing here?
 Vampire hunting. Steve rushes the last step, a jagged WOODEN STAKE held high over his head. He knocks Darren back on the ground. Pouncing on top, he brings down the stake. Darren catches hold of Steve's wrist. Stops the point of the stake just over his heart. Steve puts his weight into it. A desperate moment of struggle, but Darren's strength is resurgent. He throws Steve off. Steve rolls to his feet, comes at him again. Darren catches his wrist with one hand, his throat with the other. He slams him up against the mausoleum, holds him there.
What do you have against vampires? You wanted to become one yourself.
Yeah, I wanted to, but you did. You stole my dream. You stole my destiny.
Are you crazy? I did it to save your life. That was the deal. Me for you.
I want you to leave... Steve is just beginning to realize how strong Darren is now.
I want you to leave and forget you ever saw me. Understand? Scared, he nods. Darren shoves him away, brakes the stake in two. Steve heads away, looks back over his shoulder.
I'm going to hunt you, Darren. You and the other one. Crepsley. I'll put a stake in you and burn you to ashes. I'll make sure you never come back from the grave again. WHAM. Steve walks right into Crepsley. He picks Steve up by the shoulders, pulls him close. With a voice like Death...
If we ever meet again, I will show you loneliness you cannot imagine. Steve trembles in fear. Crepsley lets go. Steve takes off running. Crepsley looks to Darren.
Do you still question his blood? Darrenthoughtful, doesn't know what to think.
Would a stake through the heart kill a vampire?
Yes. But so would getting hit by a truck if it was going fast enough. Steve finally disappears from sight. Crepsley sighs.
He'll be trouble before it's over.
Before what's over?
This adventure we're on. Shall we start? Darren hesitates, looks to the twinkling lights of his city.
You'll get used to it after awhile. Vampires are always saying goodbye. A beat, then Darren looks back at him.
Let's go.
As it blisters up into, then rises above the horizon. Sunrise. Ominous if you're a full vampire.
How's that? Dark enough?
 Better.
It's sunrise.
I know the time. I know more about the sunrise than anyone alive.
Maybe I'll wait until noon and then open every door and curtain in the place. A long tense silence as Darren awaits Crepsley's reply.
Crepsley is a shadow among the shadows. He climbs into bed.
Yes, sunlight would kill me. My electrons are different than a human's. But it would take several hours of exposure. I'd have plenty of time to kill you before I closed the curtains and went back to bed. Crepsley pulls the blanket up over his head.
Minnesota... Darren jots this state down on a LIST he's keeping. About twenty state license plates so far.
We can die violently. Accidentally or otherwise. But we also grow old. A full vampire will age one year for every ten human years he's alive. A half-vampire like you: one for every five.
I don't understand.
I was born in 1774. I became -- Crepsley looks back to where Darren has stopped short.
Should we do the math or not? Darren nods. Crepsley motions him to keep up.
I became a vampire when I was 20 years old. In 1794.
In Paris. The days of the Terror. Heads in baskets. Guillotines up and down all day. Really when humans put their minds to it, we vampires can hardly compete.
Math. 1794. So I've been a vampire now for 211 years. Hmm? Darren nods again, still with him.
I age 1 year for every 10, so, 211 divided by 10, I've aged about 21 years in that time. That 21 plus my first human 20 makes me look about 40.
But altogether you're 211 plus 20. You're really 231 years old.
Exactly. You're going to be a teenager for a very long time. They walk on a few steps as Darren thinks this over.
Where do you keep your car anyhow?
What car?
The one you were driving around my town in. The old black one.
I've never owned a car, Darren. I don't need one.
It was near school one day. It followed me home a few days later.
And you saw me behind the wheel?
I couldn't see who was driving.
It wasn't me. As Darren considers this, Crepsley stops suddenly.
There... Ahead: just more parking lot. A WOMAN exiting a BOOKSTORE.
What?
Dinner.
Yes? Only nobody's there. She shrugs it off, closes the back door. But hesitates at the driver's side door. Then she starts walking away, toward a back area of loading docks.
Go. Run. But Crepsley appears beside her. He 'breathes' into his hand, 'guides' the air into her face. He catches her as she passes out. Darren is horrified.
Did you kill her?
I put her to sleep. She'll be like this 15 minutes. When she wakes up, she won't remember a thing.
Will she become a vampire?
No. She'd have to share y blood for that to happen.
Don't take too much.
A vampire who feeds often can control himself. One who drinks only when he must can end up feeding wildly. He uses one of his fingernails to open the vein.
The hunger inside us must be fed to be controlled. To be civilized. It's what separates us from... the others.
What others? But as blood oozes, he takes the woman's wrist td his mouth. Darren is repulsed, but can't look away. Crepsley takes a few deep swallows, then holds the wrist out to Darren.
Your turn.
No. I won't.
Darren...
I'll never do it. Crepsley runs his tongue over the cut, rubs the saliva in.
You can lead a vampire to blood, but you can't make him drink.
I'm only half-vampire.
No matter, you need blood to live now. You'll drink eventually. When you're hungry enough. The wrist is clean, the cut gone. A barely perceptible scar.
I'll die first.
What is it? As the woman starts to stir...
Nothing. Let's go.
Something out there scares you. What is it?
The thought of spending another minute with you. Crepsley turns and walks, but Darren's right.
We still need to eat food, too. I just don't need it tonight. Darren just sits there. Silently as tears begin to run down his cheeks. Crepsley is exasperated.
Now what?
The blood... I wanted it. I wanted to drink it.
Of course you did! You're a Crepsley catches himself. He is not without some compassion.
I'm sorry. It was wrong of me to blood you. You're too young. But it's done. Like the entire history of the world up to this moment. Darren quietly cries. Crepsley pulls two paper napkins from the dispenser, hands them to him.
Thank you. Darren turns to face the window as he wipes his eyes, nose. Then he sees it: parked across and down the street... A black 1966 Lincoln Continental. Darren looks back at Crepsley.
The car... Crepsley follows the finger as Darren points. DING DING! The bell over the diner door rings...
MR. TINY comes through the front door pimpin'. Peter Lorre on steroids. Scary, done up like a Las Vegas high roller.
Darren knows trouble when he sees it. He looks back at Crepsley, but the vampire is gone! Vanished.
You're quite a boy. Sacrificed everything to save a friend.
Where'd you hear that?
A little bat told me. Mr. Tiny takes a french fry off Darren's plate, eats it. Darren looks around. Where the hell did Crepsley go at a time like this? Mr. Tiny knows what he's thinking.
Oh, he's still here.
Who is?
Crepsley. Trying to stay alive. It's so quiet around them Darren can hear a clock TICKING. It's a heart shaped POCKET WATCH Mr. Tiny holds on a chain.
Would you like to see?
See what? The air seems to buzz as something 'passes'.
Why the fight of course. Boys like to watch fights, don't they? Mr. Tiny hefts his watch. It almost seems to melt into his palm. As he pulls the winding knob out with a CLICK... As Darren and Mr. Tiny blink out, disappear from the booth...
Smell the blood. The lovely blood. His eyes narrow at the sight of Crepsley, his mouth widening to show two rows of sharp filthy teeth. Darren needs to do something. He eyes the watch in Mr. Tiny's hand. He grabs it with his free hand, thumbs back in the winding knob. As Murlough disappears from view... The WINDOW EXPLODES as Sinewy Two hurtles out. Darren tosses the watch high in the air. Mr. Tiny releases him to move to catch it. Darren rushes back toward the restaurant. Mr. Tiny catches his watch. Crepsley meets Darren. Crepsley's broken arm hangs uselessly from his side. Murlough appears alongside. He grabs Crepsley by the throat, lifts him off the ground. Crepsley arcs the knife into Murlough's shoulder. Murlough staggers, lets go.
Murlough follows. Closing ground.
It's behind us! Crepsley bears down, the buildings streaking by. But...
Closes regardless, relentless, death in his eyes.
Almost out of gas. But looking ahead. Clocks in an instant: a RED LIGHT AHEAD. Cars STOPPED. A CAR FROZEN having just crossed the INTERSECTION. HEADLIGHTS from a blind corner. Crepsley slows. Just as Murlough's about to catch him from behind... Crepsley comes out of flit mode, disappears. As Murlough FADES after him.
Find a blanket. A rug. Cover it.
It goes black except for a glint in Crepsley's eyes. He sighs, settles down on the ground. Worn out.
Are you okay?
My arm's broken. But it should be fine in a day or two.
Who were they? Vampires?
No. The one with the watch was Mr. Tiny. Very dangerous.
How dangerous can a man named Mr. Tiny be?
Who said he was a man?
Then what is he?
Mr. Tiny can't be explained. He needs to be experienced.
A vampaneze.
Yeah? Keep talking.
Long ago humans were looked upon as animals by some vampires. Cattle to be slaughtered. Laws were passed to forbid needless killing. It made it easier to pass unnoticed among humans if we didn't murder them. Most vampires obeyed...
But some didn't?
Seventy vampires broke away, declared themselves a separate race. The Vampaneze. Over time their appearance changed, their numbers grew. They believe it's wrong to feed from a human without killing it.
What? That's crazy.
They believe those of us who feed in small amounts live like leeches. In shame. It led to war. Crepsley touches the scar on his face, remembers.
The last one nearly destroyed us all. There's been a truce for many years now.
Oh yeah... This is so much better than where I used to be... Crepsley hears the strain in his voice. Knows what's best for both of them..
What do you think of rejoining the Cirque du Freak? Until you get on your vampire feet so to speak.
Half vampire.
Yes, yes. Three-eighths if you want. What do you think? As Darren thinks...
Show time in twenty minutes. Someone tell Rhamus to get his stomachs in gear! He's surprised to see Crepsley and Darren walk up the road. Crepsley's arm seems much better now.
Larten'Crepsley! As I live and breathe. I thought it would be years before I saw you again. Mr. Tall looks to Darren, throws a surprised look to Crepsley. Crepsley nods. 'Yes'.
Darren Shan. You've come a long way since the last time I saw you.
I liked it better where I was.
I'm sure.
Do you still have my coffin?
Of course. You're really back?
I'd be delighted.
Mr. Shan will have to pull his weight as well. I'll give him to Evra. Evra! EVRA!
Evra, my industrious wonder. Here is Darren. Put him to work with you. Show him the snakey ropes. As the two boys consider each other...
Off with you. Go! As the boys head off, Mr. Tall looks over at Crepsley.
You blooded a child, Larten? What were you thinking?
You don't approve?
I don't matter. What will the vampire generals say when they hear about it?
I'm no longer part of their domain.
So you say. They may disagree.
What do you do? Me? I'm a snake boy. I do a whole snake thing. Evra goes into a slithery snake walk for a few steps to illustrate. It's strange. Funny. Evra looks back over.
Do you eat mice?
Big Macs actually. They share a LAUGH. Evra 'high fives' Darren. Fast friends.
I caught your act in the last town. Pretty cool.
Thanks. I'm not doing it tonight. My snake caught a cold.
Snakes can catch cold? Evra nods, then SNEEZES himself.
Still gotta work the floor though. Ushers. We get the seats filled. They pass PEOPLE all hurriedly crossing the camp.
Who are they all?
The backbone of Cirque du Freak. They do the driving, the tent pitching, the potato peeling even.
How did they end up here?
Most wandered in. If Mr. Tall likes them, they stay. Darren's eye is caught by the WOLFMAN. He's being pushed toward the factory building by several of the blue-robed LITTLE PEOPLE. The wolfman's yellow eyes are on Darren as he rumbles a low, guttural growl. Darren is so taken that he almost walks into... Madam Truska. He stops short. In costume, beardless, even more beautiful than when we first saw her. She considers Darren, uses a finger to raise his chin. She shakes her head, smiles. As she continues...
Can we help you find a seat?
Are there any left?
Only the best seats in the house. He leads them a few steps over toward a column.
You guys are with the Cirque? Darren nods. Sam's a little sarcastic and skeptical.
Cirque is French, right? Are you guys French?
Oui. Vous etes observateur. Nous sommes les serpents frangais. That slows Sam a beat. Evra points out a small platform eight feet up the column. You have to climb a natural re-bar ladder to get there. Sam looks dubious, but Debbie smiles.
Cool... I'm Debbie, this is Sam.
Evra Von. She looks at Darren, waiting.
Oh, I'm Darren.
Is the show great? Say yes. We had to sneak out to see it.
I snuck out to see it once, too. And I'm still here. An odd, almost spooky moment. Is he serious?
Good one, Darren. Hey. Debbie and Darren. Like Bonnie and Clyde. And their friend Evra Von what? That breaks the moment. Debbie starts climbing the re-bar. Sam looks Darren over a beat, picks a thread off his lapel.
Dude, it looks like the kind of suit you'd wear to a funeral.
You have no idea... Evra smiles, sticks out his tongue. Pointy, narrow, Evra sends it up his own nostril. Sam tries to smile, then starts up after Debbie. Freaked out. As Darren and Evra laugh...
Welcome to the Cirque du Freak. We are an ancient circus. Bringing the remarkable to generations...
Darren and Evra watch from the back, whisper to each other.
How long have you known Mr. Tall?
Five years.
How do you meet someone like him?
I was raised in a circus, but not a nice one like this. The owner used to beat me and keep me in a glass cage. I felt like a useless freak. One night I looked out of my cage and saw Mr. Tall just standing there. He watched me until the owner came over and asked if he could help him. Mr. Tall grabbed him by the throat and strangled him to death. Then he opened the cage and said, "Let's go, Evra." He named me that. I added the Von. I've been with him ever since. Darren looks back at Mr. Tall with a new set of eyes.
Darren... Darren turns. Crepsley's back there in the shadows.
How do you feel about show business?
To be poisoned by a spider may be my fate. It's Darren's cue. Looking appropriate in his burial suit, he walks out carrying Madam Octa's cage at arm's length.
Darren sees Debbie who gives a little wave. As he smiles...
Look glum... Miserable...
Blazing in the Cirque campgrounds. The freaks are eating, drinking wine, relaxing after the show. Like a gypsy camp. Mr. Tall sits with his long legs up on a box, really enjoying watching everyone else enjoy themselves. Evra munches on a sausage he grills on the end of a stick. Darren is all ears and eyes. He likes these people. And he's certainly never experienced anything like this. Someone starts to play a guitar, someone else beats a drum. Madam Truska starts to dance, the fire flickering against her as are all eyes. Then she reaches out, takes Crepsley by the hand. A few moments later, the two of them are engaged in a mad TANGO. It takes the camp's collective breath away. Even Darren can't help but enjoy it. Crepsley's arm gives him a twinge or two, but only Truska notices.
Almost done. Crepsley looks to the sky. Still dark. The moon setting.
Darren... 
I'm not going to sleep here. We'll find a nook in the factory. Crepsley starts off. Darren starts to follow.
Mattress. Darren sighs, goes back to the van to retrieve the mattress. He starts to pull it out, then stops, nearly doubled over. Concerned, Crepsley steps over. Darren waves him off, straightens as whatever it was passes.
I just felt sick for a second.
You need blood. Darren gives him a dirty look, grabs the mattress. They start walking toward the factory.
You think Mr. Tiny might come? Crepsley shrugs, doesn't answer.
Who is he? What does he want?
What we want is who we are, don't you think?
Can't you give me a straight answer just once?!
You won't learn by me telling you. You must live some things to know what they are. Darren sighs in deep frustration. Crepsley has a thought.
Okay. Why do you like spiders?
Did you ever think there was a particular reason? It seems Crepsley knows the answer even if Darren doesn't.
No. I never thought about it.
That's the trouble with children. They don't think about things.
I'm not a child. Theystop by the shadows.
Are you a man? If you're not a man, you're a child.
I'm in between.
In between does not exist! The words echo a moment. Darren no closer to understanding.
I'll sleep in here tonight. But sit outside the van tomorrow and make it look like I'm there. It's just caution. Old habits die hard.
And old vampires? Without a sound, someone has reached around the two of them from behind, a RAZOR-KNIFE held to each of their throats. They stand dead still. We can make out the shape of a head as whoever it is leans in ever so slightly from the dark.
Gavner Purl, as always I heard you coming from a mile away. CLICK! In his hand by his side, Mr. Crepsley holds a thin SWITCHBLADE. He presses the steel back ever so slightly.
We'll call it a draw then. The 'voice' pulls back his knives, steps out. It's GAVNER PURL. He was once handsome, but those days are long gone. His face is crossed with scars. They vary in size, thickness and color. Gavner is a warrior, carries himself so.
It's been too long, Larten.
Decades now. They embrace. Darren's trying to catch up.
You guys are friends?
I suppose. We once shared a coffin together. For six months.
We were being hunted.
Who was hunting you?
Never mind. Darren, Gavner Purl. Gavner extends his hand to shake. Darren sees'the scars on Gavner Purl's fingertips. Darren raises his own hand so Gavner can see his scars. Gavner looks at Crepsley.
A half-vampire?
Of course. We don't make full vampires of our assistants. Gavner Purl looks at Crepsley, stunned.
Nor do we make assistants of children.
I have my reasons.
And they are?
I don't owe answers to vampires anymore. I'm exiled from our kind
Self-exiled. And I at least am owed an answer. There's a personal history being called upon here. Crepsley is well aware. Darren again is left out.
All I care to say is a boy sought me out, knew who I was. He asked me to make him my assistant. Gavner looks to Darren, suspicious.
And how did you know --
I met Darren shortly after. His blood was good or I certainly would have killed him. Darren reacts again.
How could a boy find you? Crepsley shrugs. Of course he had help.
Tiny?
He tried to kill us.
He tried to kill me. What he wanted with you wasn't determined.
Perhaps you chose the wrong boy. In Mr. Tiny's eyes. A moment as they consider the unspoken implications.
What are you guys talking about!? No answer as Crepsley and Gavner lock each other in a look.
What's important enough to track down an exile? What is your news?
War.
I'm not interested in your wars.
Well the other side is interested or they wouldn't be trying to get rid of you. Crepsley gets suddenly very angry.
I've had enough killing! No more! You've come to the wrong place. I am the wrong place... Gavner raises his hands in surrender.
Even so, I'm glad you're alive.
I can still make miles. The war won't wait. And neither will bad news. I have to go.
Then travel safely.
Would you mind if I walk a bit with your assistant?
Take him with you if you want. He's of little use to me.
You look sick. Doesn't Larten feed you?
I won't drink blood if that's what you mean. I promised myself.
Why?
You'll get insulted. As Gavner waits for Darren to tell him...
I'm afraid if I drink blood, I'll become evil. Gavner LAUGHS out loud, catches himself.
The only thing drinking blood will do to you is keep you alive.
That's how it would start. I would swear it was just to stay alive. But what'll I turn into? You're on one side of the fence or the other. My father used to say that and now I know what he meant. The 'father part' chokes Darren up a bit.
You've already turned, Darren. You need to accept what you've already become. There's no going back. They walk in silence a moment. Then:
Why did Crepsley make himself an exile anyhow?
He was tired of all the killing. We were at war.
With the vampaneze?
Crepsley was once a Vampire General. One of our great leaders. He may seem reluctant, but I assure you, no one is as skilled at killing vampaneze than Crepsley is. I think that's why they'd like to get him out of the way. Kill him off before the new war starts.
You've known him a long time?
I was his assistant. He blooded me, as he blooded you. There's almost something comforting in this news. Gavner Purl so proud and strong looking. Darren wants to know...
Why'd he choose you?
To teach me to kill vampaneze. Up until now, it's the only reason he ever chooses anyone.
Is it why he chose me? Gavner hesitates, not sure.
That's for Crepsley to say. Not me. Another brick wall, but Darren accepts it.
Do you know what the biggest danger is to a vampire, Darren?
The vampaneze? Mr. Tiny?
No. It's that they live so long they no longer care. Everything they love is left behind until they finally have nothing left to live for. Except death. The fact that he's taken an apprentice seems, to me, a good sign. A sign that he's thinking of living not dying.
Lucky for me. Glad I could help. All the same Darren considers what he's heard. Gavner, meanwhile, considers the open countryside ahead.
A clear run. Good. Gavner gives Darren one last appraising look.
Stay by him, Darren. Stay by him. Gavner takes a deep breath. The air around him shimmers, his image bouncing in and out of phase like an electron heating up. And then he's gone.
That part is definitely cool.
Nothing.
Don't know. I'm congested.
Debbie and Sam ducking inside the factory.
Let's scare the crap out of him... They begin to creep in, flanking the unsuspecting Sam. But as they get close, a SHAPE drops down behind them!
Darren and Evra are the ones who jump. The shape is Debbie! She almost falls over laughing. So does Sam.
You should see the look on your faces. But Evra and Darren are not laughing.
What're you doing here?
We could ask you the same thing. We come here all the time. My grandfather used to work here.
Must've been a long time ago.
He says now it's like one of those bombed out World War II cathedrals. Empty of what is used to be. An odd little moment till Sam breaks it.
Hey, we loved the show, man. It was off the hook.
 Off the hook, huh? I'll tell all the freaks you said so.
Are you guys on your own? Just traveling. No parents or nothing?
No. No parents. He says it with a little twinge that Debbie picks up on.
School?
No school either.
You're the luckiest guys on earth. Wanna switch places?
You have to be different to be here.
Different how? Evra steps into a slash of sunlight and his skin flashes to life, the green of his scales catching the rays. Debbie's mouth drops. They couldn't see it in the dark last night.
Everyone has a place they belong. The Cirque du Freak is ours.
I think your skin is beautiful. That wins Evra over.
Can I touch it? Evra holds out his arm. Debbie traces a finger across it.
Wow. Has it always been this way?
He's a snake-boy.
You shouldn't call him names because he looks different.
It's okay. I am a snake boy.
You could say you're dermatologically challenged. They all LAUGH. Debbie considers Evra a beat, then Darren.
What about you, Darren? How are you different?
I get scared easy. Darren looks up toward the rafters. From where she dropped.
How'd you get up there anyhow?
You mean, how did a girl get up there?
Hey, be careful.
Don't worry. She's like a gymnast. Debbie moves slowly at first, her arms stretched out for balance. Then she does a hop, a skip. Darren and Evra gasp. She gets to the other side, turns and bows.
You're crazy!
How about you?
I got nothing to prove.
But it'd be easier for you than me.
Why's that?
Because chickens have wings. She starts chicken CLUCKING. Mad, Darren steps onto a rafter, starts across. He stops in the middle, spins around. Aided immeasurably by his half-vampire skills.
The vertigo angle as Debbie walks back out on her rafter. Stops about 4-feet across from Darren.
Let's play mirrors.
What's that?
I do something and you have to copy me. Like this. Debbie crosses her arms the same way Darren has. He uncrosses them as he realizes. Debbie reaches down, touches her toes. Darren sighs, then does the same, gets a good look at the floor below. Debbie takes one foot off the rafter, takes hold of the top of it with one hand, raising the other arm out for balance. Looks like a ballerina. Evra doesn't like this daredevil stuff.
Come on, guys... Darren hesitates. Not because he won't do it, but because maybe for the first time in his life, he's really fascinated by a girl. Debbie misreads, starts CLUCKING again. Darren smiles, repeats her move effortlessly. Without warning, Debbie leaps the gap, lands on the rafter alongside Darren. As she struggles a bit for balance, Darren reaches out and steadies her. As they come face to face.
There definitely something different about you. I just can't figure it out.
Is Sam your boyfriend?
He's my cousin.
Oh... A funny, awkward beat out on the rafter. Finally...
We should get off this. She nods, a bit smitten. Darren turns. As they start off...
Chalk it up to lack of blood, but everything starts spinning.
The area is like a big drain and he's whirling down it.
Darren legs go out and he falls off. As Debbie screams... Darren CATCHES HOLD of the rafter just as he drops past it.
Hold on. Debbie grabs his arm. Evra starts out to help, but the rafter CREAKS OMINOUSLY. He stops. Sam states the obvious.
I don't think it'll hold you, dude.
Thanks for the heads up... Bro.
 It's okay. I'm okay. Darren swings up a leg, hooks it over the rafter. A beat and he's back on top. Debbie relieved. Evra backs up the way he came and in a few seconds they're all safely off the rafter.
I don't know how you hung on. I couldn't have.
You wouldn't have fallen in the first place... I just got dizzy.
Maybe you need to eat something. Darren looks at her. She has no idea.
Well, the food's down on ground level. Let's get out of here. Sam and Debbie start off, Darren and Evra following. As Sam and Debbie start down a ladder, Darren hangs back a beat.
She's kind'of cool, huh? I mean, for a girl.
I like her. She asks a lot of questions though.
She's just curious.
There's no such thing as 'just' with a girl.
What makes you such an expert?
My snake's a girl.
MOVE WITH Darren as he continues. As he passes through a doorway, he ducks around the corner. Waits a few beats. Then he leaps out to see who's following. No one's there. Shaking his head, he continues on.
Good morning, Darren.
What's good about it? Crepsley looks him over, doesn't like what he sees.
He stops as Sam and Debbie catch up with him.
Hey, Darren. Hi... Darren's happy to see them.
You guys are coming to the show again tonight?
Of course. Evra's doing his snake act tonight.
Oh, you came to see Evra.
And you... Darren smiles shyly at that.
I was hoping for Amanda Bynes. Darren sees Crepsley watching him from the tent.
Hey, I'll catch up with you later. I got some stuff I gotta finish up.
He's gonna be gone in another day or two. Tonight's the last show.
I know that. So?
So stop looking at him like you love him.
You're such an idiot, Sam.
Darren joins Crepsley, a little unsteady.
Look at you. You can barely stand.
I'm fine.
You need to feed. You need blood..
No! I won't let you hunt some poor person down for me. I -- Crepsley grabs hold of Darren, hauls him into...
Dark, the inside walls richly embroidered. Medieval.
No need to hunt. There's someone here willing to save you. From the shadows: Madam Truska. Startlingly beautiful. She steps up. Eyes on Darren, she offers Crepsley her wrist.
By my own free will, Darren Shan. As Crepsley's fingernail hovers, ready to open a vein. Darren shakes his head. 'No'.
Drink or you'll die.
No. I can't. I'm human. Crepsley releases Truska's arm.
You're not! And you'll be nothing! Darren stands there as noble and sad as a boy could be.
I am human. In my heart I am. A great big TEAR rolls down Truska's cheek. That's the last thing Crepsley needed to see. He's defeated.
An usher in the house of usher. And I can't seem to find a seat. Darren frowns at the odd voice, but leads down the aisle.
This way. Darren brings him down to a handful of seats. The figure looks up from under the brim of his hat. It's Mr. Tiny.
Join me.
I don't think so. As Darren moves to go, Mr. Tiny clamps a hand around his wrist. Like iron. He sits, pulling Darren down beside him.
It's time we had a few moments. Folks involved in epic struggles should get to know each other. Darren doesn't answer.
Has Crepsley told you about me? Explained me?
He said you can't be explained. You need to be experienced.
He gives me too much credit.
Hey, Darren. Darren looks up to see Debbie and Sam. Oh no...
We're gonna sit on this side.
Cuz we miss you so much. She digs Sam with her elbow. They sit just a row in front.
You've chosen the vampaneze. Mr. Tiny laughs, slaps his knee even.
Is that really what you think? A smart boy like you? And the lights drop. A trumpet blasts and all is silent.
Ladies and Gentlemen...
.subjugators and saps...
Welcome to the Cirque du Freak. We are an ancient circus... As Mr. Tall drones on...
Oh, his speeches are impossible. Mr. Tiny opens his free hand. His pocket watch melts up into view from his palm. Time begins to speed up around them. Mr. Tall's voice speeds to a BUZZ as he 'keystone cops' off the stage and Rhamus 'keystones' on. The audience's small movements become rattles and shakes. Only Darren and Mr. Tiny are at normal speed.
I'm not so complicated, Darren. During war there are those who profit. A war between vampires and vampaneze would have terrible consequences. Therefore...
Terrible profits.
Excellent. I am a profiteer. I exact fees and gains. I'm simple. On stage, Madam Truska exits and Evra 'keystones' through his performance with his snake.
Did Crepsley tell you of the prophesy?
What prophesy?
They say the final battle between vampires and vampaneze will be decided by a child. That's why the vampires won't blood children. To avoid the end of the world. As these words are pondered by Darren...
I think I underestimated you. I think you could be wonderful.
I think you're a creep. I think you suck.
Too bad. Mr. Tiny closes his hand around the watch. Time returns to normal. The applause for Evra slowing down to normal speed. As he walks off the stage, Debbie looks back at Darren.
He was great! As she looks back to the stage someone sits on Darren's other side. Collar pulled up, head wrapped in a scarf. Murlough!
 Is it Dar-wren's girlfriend?
Forget about her -- Murlough takes hold of Darren's other wrist. Still low:
She has plenty of lovely blood inside. Inside, outside, hmmm? Darren struggles. Murlough pulls him close, HISSES in his ear, flashing those filthy teeth.
I don't care about humans. I don't care about you. But the vampire - Larten Crepsley - him I care about.
You guys are in trouble. There's more than one vampire now. Gavner Purl is here. Murlough reacts to the name. Does not like it.
Have you seen Purl Gavner's face? Young Murlough sliced it for him.
Darren, you're a liar. He's a thousand miles gone by now. And master Crepsley is right there. As he points at Crepsley...
Holding Madam Octa's cage. Aware something's 'in the air'.
Shimmers, phases into flit mode. Disappears.
Crepsley! Look out! The audience LAUGHS. Like Darren's worried about Madam Octa. Debbie looks back, knows something is wrong. Sees Mr. Tiny's hand around Darren's wrist.
As Murlough 'appears' alongside Crepsley. Madam Octa's cage drops to the stage as Murlough knocks Crepsley fifteen feet through the air. He lands flat on his back. The audience CHEER! Think it's part of the show. Murlough reaches into his jacket, produces a razor-sharp LONG KNIFE in either hand. Crepsley pops to his feet. As his own single BLADE 'switches' to life in his hand...
CHEERS as Murlough charges forward, the long knives pinwheeling in his hands. His attack is brutal and blunt. Crepsley is driven back, parrying each thrust and attack as it comes. Sparks fly as the blades connect. From out of nowhere, Crepsley adds a BACKHAND to the mix. It catches Murlough hard across the chops.
Mr. Tall and Evra watch. Not knowing what to do.
Murlough swings back wildly. Crepsley catches the blade in Murlough's left hand with the one in his right. Crepsley catches Murlough's left wrist, the second blade dangerously close to retracing the scar on Crepsley's face. Crepsley throws himself back, sending Murlough head over heels across the stage and SLAMMING into a concrete wall.
Concentrating. Trying to flit.
Murlough rolls to his feet, charges. It's brute force versus style. But as Crepsley moves to sidestep, Murlough's not so brutish after all. He matches the move -- Buries one of his knives into Crepsley's stomach. Crepsley reacts, frozen in shock.
Speeding down to the stage. The dagger descends in slo- motion, but it's only a centimeter or two from it's target.
Darren reappears, leaps onto Murlough's back, knocks him off target. As Murlough staggers right, Crepsley staggers left. Murlough regroups, charges after him. Badly hurt, stumbling, Crepsley falls off the edge of the stage. Disappears. ROARING, Murlough grabs Darren. They disappear as well.
Sighs. This is not how it's supposed to go. Sam and Debbie leave their seats, head for the stage.
His back to a wall. Trying to hold it together. Frozen PATRONS facing the exit beyond. As he'loses his flit power, the patrons suddenly resume real speed for the exits.
Reacting to Murlough's voice.
Reacting as Debbie and Sam arrive. They move toward it.
Listening as the scream fades off. Clutching his stomach, Crepsley moves.
Crepsley will come for his assistant.
He doesn't care about me.
Murlough has an assistant, too. A smart one, smarter than you. As Murlough says this, Darren looks past as stepping up, grinning, is Murlough's assistant.
Steve? Steve! Steve holds up his hands so Darren can see the WHITE SCAR on the tip of each finger. He gets closer.
Mr. Tiny made my dream come true. Only better. I'm half vampaneze instead of a stupid half vampire. Mr. Tiny says I have a destiny. He says he's gonna make sure of it.
Is that who you talked to? Was that the internet guy? Mr. Tiny?
But, I think I've known him a long time in my head. In my bad, bad blood. Chilling. Maybe Steve is evil. He leans in even closer.
He gave me back the dream you stole. Murlough motions Steve quiet, slaps a hand over Darren's mouth. Listens. Smiles. Whispers.
Crepsley comes.
Where'd he go? They jump as Crepsley appears right in front of them.
Evra... Get them out of here.
Evra knows it's useless. As he nods, Crepsley turns and strides back toward where he had been. Sam and Debbie exchange a look. What the Hell?
You guys better go back.
What are you gonna do?
Darren's my friend.
Ours too. Sam's not so sure, but he nods in agreement.
Sweeping the room. Wait! It fixes on a doorway. There's Crepsley. Looking about, everywhere but at Darren.
Crepsley speaks to 'the room'.
I can smell it. Why does it hide?
The vampire will die.
Even the creatures of the night watch too much TV. Darren swings past through the middle of it all. Murlough charges. Crepsley sidesteps Darren, decides to take the fight higher. He leaps up, swings himself up onto one of the catwalks. Murlough follows. They use the room steel as monkey bars as they climb, clash. Violent, quick attacks. Crepsley gaining a position, abandoning it as Murlough SLAMS in.
Has lost sight of them, he can only hear the battle now. He reacts as Evra, Debbie and Sam rush out. Evra takes hold, lifts, tries to lessen the load on the chain.
Sam, unhook his legs. As Sam struggles, Debbie pulls the rag from Darren's mouth.
Are you guys nuts? Get outta here!
It's against our code. Suddenly unhooked, Darren hits the ground. He looks up at Evra who grins down at him.
Never leave a freak behind.
On the catwalks Murlough draws his knives. Crepsley jumps to the space he wants to defend, draws his own. Murlough counters. Two very serious predators'-at work. The animal kingdom at its killing best. A charge. Murlough a bull, Crepsley a matador. He redirects one of Murlough's arcing arms, smashing it against a metal housing. One of the vampaneze's knives clatters away. It's not graphic or bloody, but several times Crepsley's knife finds its way into Murlough's body. It enrages him, but Crepsley continues dealing out punishment. He's now like a brilliant counter-puncher, even as he inadvertently backs his way into a corner. But as quarters close in, Murlough's rage works to his advantage. He charges into Crepsley, his lowered shoulder sending Crepsley through the air and into... And through a BRICK WALL. Into the thin air outside! Still raging, Murlough nearly falls through himself. Instead, he slips, drops about twenty feet down inside the building!
Come on!
Evra. I think I'm dying. He looks horrible.
Let's carry him if we have to. Evra and Sam support him on either side. They continue, start across part of a darkened backstage area. A dark rectangular shape looms ahead. We hear a GUTTURAL GROWL, sees eyes glow in the gloom. They freeze.
It's okay. It's the wolfman. He's in his cage. They move forward again, the cage becomes visible. But another SHAPE beside it. Steve. He sets his hand on the cage's heavy latch. He's going to open it.
No don't!
Ooops... Steve lifts the latch. Even he doesn't expect the force the wolfman hits the door with. Whaanngg! It's out. Evra steps bravely forward. The wolfman sends him flying. Sam can't hold Darren up by himself. He doesn't even see the Wolfman leap over. As Darren sinks to the floor... The wolfman tears into Sam...
Reacts in horror.
He's more surprised than shocked. Until the wolfman looks his way. Then he heads for the hills, disappears into the dark. The wolfman turns back toward Debbie. She backs away, takes off up a rickety stairway. The wolfman HOWLS, then follows. Darren's too weak to follow, near tears in frustration and regret. He watches after them, then he looks over at Sam. Sam who is dying. Just a few feet away. His eyes flicker to Darren's. He tries to say something, but can't.
Oh Sam. Oh no... Darren crawls over, takes Sam's bloody hand.
Go save Debbie, Darren... Sam manages the smallest smile. As his eyes drift shut...
I think she loves you... From above, we hear Debbie SCREAM. Darren considers Sam's blood, knows what he has to do. Leave his humanity behind and cross the line. He needs to drink Sam's blood.
Forgive me, Sam, but I need strength. I need blood. As Darren extends his nails over Sam's wrist...
We're going to save her together.
Is Crepsley dead?
Who knows? Young Murlough lives, but he's hurt.
What can I do?
What can Dar-wren's girlfriend do? We need to get the blood inside outside. Don't we? Then we hear it: a blood-curdling scream filters up. It's:
Murlough, looming over Debbie, smiles as Darren arrives.
Let her go.
Stop being a big shot. This isn't like stopping some fight at school.
Shut up, Steve.
You need to stand still so you can die. But as he attempts to pull his arm back through, he can't. He frowns. Then his eyes widen in pain. Murlough jerks his arm back as hard as he can. The wall smashes open as Murlough brings his arm back through with Crepsley hanging onto the end of it.
The audience who remain chanting: "Refund! Refund!" They react as debris falls from above, smashes to the stage.
SCREAMS from the audience as Murlough descends. Somewhere in mid-fall, Crepsley FLITS, disappears. When Murlough hits the center of the stage, he hits it alone. Dead. As people start for the exits, we see Mr. Tiny'is among them.
But as Darren stands, it's not over. Steve grabs Debbie, pushes her to the edge where the rafters are.
Stay back! Or I'll throw her off! I mean it! It sounds like he does. Darren looks intently at Debbie. She looks back. Then, Darren makes CHICKEN CLUCK SOUNDS. Understanding, Debbie tears herself away. To the precipice. But instead of falling, she continues out on a rafter. Steve slides out after her. But as he reaches for her, she deftly skips across the rafters, jumps back to the floor. Before Steve can follow, Darren cuts him off. Below them: rows of jagged, rusty pipes. The remains of a pumping station. Shredded now, broken. Waiting to impale.
It's over, Steve.
Is it? Steve lunges. They come together, trading shots, stumbling but still having to make the rafters. A missed footfall will be their last. They separate, try to gain position.
You wanna hear something funny? After your funeral, I went to see your parents. They continue circling.
And they were fine. They acted like they barely remembered you.
Liar.
Did you steal money from my mom's purse?
What?
Did you? Darren hanging there, dead grim. Steve's curious.
Why do you ask? Is knowing that gonna help you rest in peace?
No. It's just practically the last thing that ever happened between me and my dad was I was arguing with him.
I was telling him he was wrong about you. That's the last time we had together. Fighting about you.
Hate to tell ya. Your dad was right. How do you think we got the money for the dumb tickets? I took it. Just like I'm gonna take you. Steve jams his foot down into Darren's face, but Darren hangs on. In fact, with a superhuman surge, he hauls himself up, no matter how many times Steve hits him.
I miss him.
Do you understand?
I miss him so much. WHAM! Steve's arm pinwheel for balance. He's going over. But just as he pitches off the end rafter... Darren catches him by his belt. Nearly bent backward, he hangs back over the abyss. If Darren lets go, Steve will fall into the spikes below. Crespley steps up beside Debbie, knows what Darren should do.
Kill him, Darren. Do it now so you won't have to do it later. Darren looks at Steve. A moment they'll remember forever.
Start running. Don't ever stop. Steve hesitates. It wasn't supposed to be like this. Darren starts off the rafter toward him. One last look of hate.
Next time... And he's gone. Disappearing into the dark. Darren joins Debbie. Nothing left to hide.
Sam? Darren shakes his head. Sam didn't make it.
Are you gonna be okay?
I just need to catch my breath. For a few days. Maybe a week.
You think I made a mistake, don't you?
No. I think that you proved yourself human after all. Human. As Darren absorbs this kindness, smiles.
Half human. What now?
What do you mean?
There's a war on, isn't there? Crepsley shrugs.
This world is crossed by fences. You have to decide which side you stand on.
Yes, yes. Black and white fences crossing very gray fields.
It's not gray. I've met the bad guys. They need to be stopped.
I'm not sure it's my fight.
But you said it. There's no in between. And the power of being alone is never going to be greater than the weakness. It's our fight.
His blood is in you.
I'll deal with the police when they come. What I'll say, I don't know.
Say what happened. Some crazy guy showed up. Sam was in the wrong place at the wrong time. They're all quiet a moment.
He was brave.
He didn't die in vain. A beat.
Time to fly or flit or whatever you call it. The sun won't wait all night.
Actually, that's exactly what it does. Mr. Tall manages a smile, considers the sky a moment.
Time will tell what this night has brought us.
Yes. Keep my coffin ready, would you?
Always. As they exchange farewells, Debbie turns to Darren.
Do you think we'll meet again?
You never know. As she hugs him tight, she whispers in his ear:
I hope so...
Where are we going?
To meet the Vampire Generals. War clouds are forming. A storm is coming. And I have a feeling you're needed much more than I am.
So what are we waiting for? Let's go. Crepsley offers his hand.
Take my arm. Darren shakes his head, doesn't need it. He shimmers, flits into the night. Crepsley laughs to himself. As he follows...
