Heat that has mass. That rises off the parched earth in shimmering waves. After a moment, we see what appear to be figures coming out of the haze, one by one. A family with their few belongings: HASARI PAL, 33, his wife, ALOKA, 28, and their children, daughter, AMRITA, 13, sons MANOOJ and SHAMBU, 11 and 9; HASARI'S MOTHER and FATHER. They embark toward the night, the rising sun behind them.
I'll send money soon. His Mother nods, as Hasari erupts in a small cough which, by habit, he suppresses. His Mother crushes Aloka to her. HASARI'S MOTHER Don't let the children out of your sight. Not for a moment. Now the children. She wants to keep them here even as the old man touches her, reminding her she must let them go. HASARI'S MOTHER Help your parents. Don't fight with each other. And, Manooj, stay away from the cinema, do you hear? Shambu, his eyes big as saucers, whispers to his grandma... 
SHAMBU I don't want to go. There are bad men with long knives who steal children. That does it: Hasari's   Mother dissolves in tears, but the old man nevertheless  unlooses her insistently from the children. Aloka and   the children get on the bus as the old man embraces his  son. HASARI'S FATHER A man's journey to the end of his obligations is a very long road. Yours begins here.
 Our farm has died, so we are moving to Calcutta to become rich! Hasari and Aloka look  at each other: If only it were the pursuit of wealth and  not survival. The woman under- stands. And now the   BUS GRINDS forward and the Pals look back. Hasari coughs,   suppresses it... as silence falls. The elder Pals stand huddled   together in the dust and we see, nestled behind a boulder   at the roadside, a tiny, blue flower -- beautiful and   fragile, but like all things alive, determined to live...   and we hear the sound of a DOZEN VOICES CHANTING a quiet   mantra in unison as we -- DISSOLVE TO:
EMPTY_LINE
As we PAN the group, we see that everyone has his/her eyes closed in earnest meditation... until we COME TO an American, MAX LOEB, 29, who pops open first his right eye -- looks to his right and left -- closes his right eye and opens his left eye -- looks left and right... and then, instead of continuing the mantra and the search for his white light, expels a stream of air through his pursed lips, making a vibrating, flatulent sound, one indicative of sizeable frustration and dismissal. MAX Get serious. Around him, other single eyes pop open, searching for the source of this unmeditative sound. Max nods and smiles a wry smile as if to say: This just ain't doin' it for me, folks.
MAX Impossible to predict, Betsy Ilene Kahn. Maybe you better give me my ticket. BETSY Screw you, Max -- I paid for it! How many times am I going to let you walk out on me and come back? MAX I think only you can answer that, Betsy Ilene Kahn. She slaps him.
Do you really think that's an appropriate way to get rid of your Western rage, Bets? She swings at him again.   He catches her hand hard in his fist. MAX One slap is romantic. Two would call for retaliation... Lend me a hundred dollars. She yanks free, begins to chant her mantra as he grabs his knapsack and valise and goes out the door.  Now, she's silent and, in the simplest sense, deeply hurt. She can't help herself; she cares. We STAY WITH  her a moment as we -- DISSOLVE TO:
MAX How you doin'? The Clerk gives Max a warm smile. CLERK Hello. MAX I've always wanted to walk into a little airport just about like this one and ask the guy at the counter the following question. Ready?
When's the next flight to anywhere? CLERK To Bombay. Tomorrow, at one o'clock in the afternoon. A beat --- the Clerk with his smile, Max with his, one simply warm, the other giving off simmering heat.
I say, are you looking for a way out of here? We have an extra seat. Where are you wanting to go? Max's eyes flick from Veejay to the back view of Manubai as she continues on and back to Veejay. MAX I'm wanting to go wherever you're wanting to take me.
We see now that, contrary to our assumption that Veejay would be in the left seat, it's Manubai who's flying the plane. The NOISE of the ENGINE forces them to speak somewhat loudly. VEEJAY We were among the fortunate back in '48.  We got out of East Bengal before partition destroyed so many. We make mattresses. The Rajah Double Spring. Veejay has an old flask out. VEEJAY We don't have a flight attendant on this flight...  Are you a musician, Mr. Loeb? MAX Unattached trumpet player and recently-certified associate guru. As he takes a hit   on   the flask, Max's eye focuses on the little mirror on   the   dash. In it he can see Manubai's eyes. If we  were   to   judge by what he sees in them, she doesn't find him   the   least bit amusing. He smiles his smile at her.
HASARI Scared? No -- why? This is very exciting. As soon as we get to our friend's house, everything will be fine. But, despite Hasari's charade of confidence, they (and we) are overwhelmed by the size of the station and the desperate energy of the humanity around them. As they press on, a small beggar woman huddled on the platform turns her eyes eerily on Manooj... as a deformed hand stretches INTO the FRAME. Aloka senses someone: A beggar, face half-hidden and eaten away by leprosy. This terrifying image presses the boys tightly to their mother and moves Hasari to encircle Armita with one hand and attempt to wrap the other three inside the embrace of his other hand. It does not seem possible that he can protect all of them against the predatory eyes watching them. He moves them quickly to a wall... HASARI Wait right here. Don't move.
He moves to a line of VENDORS, shows a piece of paper to one, as he digs out his precious screw of money to make a purchase of sweets from the Vendor. HASARI Please, can you direct me to my friend at this address? We are to stay with him. The Vendor gives the address a look, shows it to the Vendor next to him. Both look at Hasari. VENDOR #1 There's no such address as this in Calcutta. HASARI But that's not possible. VENDOR #1 Of course    it is possible! I have lived here    all my life. You are new. Who     would know if a place exists or    does not? VENDOR #2 Bombay, perhaps. Delhi.     Look there. 
Dear God, what now? Stunned, Hasari hands Vendor #1 a rupee and, with the sweets, turns back to his family, his face going through a magical transformation as he prepares to suggest to the family that all is well.
The Pals, scared, dispirited, weary, consumed by the crowd. They've been walking a long  time. Shambu cries; Aloka tries to ease his fear. They  stop numbly at the edge of the park, put their bundles down against a long wall. Across the way, a thin policeman shares a cigarette with a group of traders. There is a deeply fearful look in Hasari's eyes, a look he is having difficulty controlling now. He needs to revive the family's confidence. He takes out his precious bundle of rupees and gives one to Manooj. Manooj, though, is fixed on the cinema across the street. Hasari indicates a stall just across the main road.
Manooj, go and get some fruit. Come straight back. Delighted with his task, Manooj sets off, his eyes on the marquee of the theater with its huge cardboard cutout of Kumar Kapur, starring in Hot Gun. Hasari calls out to him to watch where he's going; the mere crossing of the street is a potential parental nightmare. A hand ruffles Manooj's head and a TALL MAN with dark eyes and a sweet smile comes at the boy's anxious parents. GANGOOLY Yes, hello, brother. Bihar, am I correct? HASARI Yes, how did you know? 
Hasari is torn between speaking to the man and watching his son's incredible journey across the street. GANGOOLY Let me say only that the terrible malevolence that has visited your part of the country affects us all. HASARI Three years without rain. Nothing came out of the earth but debts. GANGOOLY Terrible. And now, the    family on the street. It is not    acceptable.  And if I can't help, my   name is not Mr. Gangooly... Which,   blessedly, it is. And now a smile as full as the sky above.
Be free -- look around. On the faces of the family is one thought: Is it possible? Amrita goes right to the parrots. GANGOOLY They'll need feeding. Give them seed. But don't spoil them. 
He bows briefly before the altar as he moves to the washing area. GANGOOLY And now, one of the miracles of life in the city. One and two... He turns on the tap and a stream of brown WATER GURGLES out. The Pals are hypnotized, the fists around their hearts begin to ease. GANGOOLY Holy water from the Ganges! Flows out forever. Come -- touch it.
Drink! It's as pure as the dew on Shiva's lips. They drink. Gangooly claps in delight... and beckons Hasari aside.
Now, this place is yours for two weeks. My cousin, Moti, is away, traveling. Normally, the rent takes fifty rupees for a week, but for a brother, forty. No, don't thank me. Hasari pulls out his little screw of money.
I have only seventy-five, but as soon as I have work... GANGOOLY Give me the fifty, pay the rest next week. You'll find work, I trust you. Aren't I from Bihar, too?  Yes. And the money is in his hand.   He joins his hands together. GANGOOLY You are pleased? Then Mr. Gangooly is pleased. It's how I am. 
He turns on his heel and he's gone. For a moment, the Pals are still, swept from the brink of catastrophe to salvation... and now, as one, they release their sheer and utter joy.
I hope this is all right. The room hasn't been aired or the bed turned, but -- VEEJAY Oh, he doesn't care about that, do you, Max? Here, look here. Veejay opens a little cupboard, stocked with liquor. VEEJAY Help yourself. Be comfortable. Ravi, come on, go, go, let's leave the young man to himself. Obediently, Ravi goes.   Veejay follows.   Max goes to the window.
The beautiful Manubai in the garden.
He lies down on the bed.   He's found Nirvana.
It's full of something brown. He  pushes his fingers in and feels this bit of earth with a tenderness that's almost religious, puts a pinch to his nose and breathes it in. The LAUGHTER and SHOUTING  from the bathing area is GROWING.
MAN What are you doing here?   Who are you? HASARI My name is Pal, Hasari. Mr. Gangooly rented this space to -- MAN Mr. Who? HASARI Gangooly.   You must be his cousin, Mr. Moti. MAN I don't know any Gangooly and my name is Binal and this is my home -- get out! The furious Binal, followed by the Pals, goes into the main part of the room. A small crowd has been attracted by the noise. HASARI But this is true. We paid him a deposit of fifty -- BINAL A man goes out because he has to work, and some beggar tries to move in while his back is turned. 
This while Binal has begun to throw things out onto the street, though this cleansing of his home doesn't stop him from picking up a stick. The odd sympathizer meets with... BINAL So, should I suffer if they are so stupid to jump into the first mouth that wants to eat them? He turns with the stick on Hasari. BINAL You're lucky I don't kill you!
Go to the river. Try to squeeze in there.
Ravi in her bathrobe. MAX I'm starving. He gives her his best saint's smile. RAVI Well, you don't want to eat those awful cigars. Come with me, we'll wake up the cook, she'll fix you something proper.
With his eyes open, watching the dead man being removed.
After their humiliating flight, they found refuge here. Tiny figures huddled together with their baggage and bundles, near a tree, not far from the steps that dip down to the smooth water. Hasari's eyes, too, are on the dead man, that warning. He kneels beside Manooj, strokes him. The boy's eyes turns to the man's, wondering if the man can provide for them. HASARI Don't let it frighten you. You have to be brave. I know we'll find work today. Fear and doubt fill Manooj's eyes.   He nods.
A line of a hundred men stretches from a door. Hasari is on the edge of panic, but when he turns to the family, he's wearing his confident smile. As before, he gathers the family into the protectorate of his arms and guides them onward. As he pushes off into the sea of humanity, we PULL BACK AND UP, FILLING the FRAME WITH street upon street, disappearing Hasari.
The mirror stops at Max slipping into a kurta before an audience of Ravi, Manubai, and a salesman. RAVI It's not extravagant at all. You can't go around all week in your tribal garb. Max sees a boy's face pressed to the glass: he indicates the shirt, for the boy's approval. The boy smiles a wonderful smile. RAVI Now he looks civilized, doesn't he, Manubai? MANUBAI Almost. Max looks at her.   She at him.
You sure I look all right? The little boy nods. Max slips him several rupees... and he, Manubai, and Ravi fold themselves into her tiny car as --
Shambu runs to his dejected family. SHAMBU Look! A man gave me these many moneys! HASARI What man? Why -- did you ask him for money? SHAMBU He just gave it to me. HASARI Where is he? Shambu looks, but the car's gone. HASARI Don't do that. We're not beggars. Shambu is devastated. Out of his own desperation, Hasari feels he's been a little rough on the boy. He holds him close.
Go back to the river. Wait for me by the tree. Don't go anywhere. Do you understand? Aloka, the boys nod. We WATCH them as Hasari heads off, quickly becoming a small figure disappearing into the sea.
Do you have family?
Yes, yes of course. But I'm three days without work. I'll take anything. The Clerk digs in his pocket, presses two rupees on Hasari. CLERK Here, now go away. HASARI No, I don't want you to give me -- The next man in line forcibly moves Hasari out of the way. CLERK In this city, a man with a family can't be proud. Take it!
I said you have three days to get me into bed, and I'm betting you can't do it. 
MANUBAI It's all right for you to use my mother as your tour guide and meal ticket, because she'll get something nice out of it. But what would I get? He stares at her a moment, then gets up, goes around the table. MAX Well, gee,    I don't know. Maybe I could say    something so amusing that you'd    laugh so hard it would break that    hot poker you have up your ass. She stares at him. He bends to kiss her. She doesn't pull away... but after a moment he realizes she isn't responding. He continues the kiss, but he opens his eyes... to find her staring at him. He pulls back. They stare at each other another moment, then Max senses someone in the doorway.
Staring at them, disappointment filling her eyes.
The same sound of frustration and ennui he made in the ashram.
Max is guided by a grumpy hall PORTER wearing an off- white shirt and bellbottoms through the walled and well planted courtyard of an inexpensive hotel. Max gives the cow a bemused eye...
PORTER It pleases you?
No fruit basket? No mini bar? Max hands the Porter several rupees. PORTER Bar? Of course -- many, many. But make care, Sahib. Please, for me. If it is lady you like to know -- yes? -- you let me. Huh? Very sweet girl, good nature, very sweet. Or boy, very good... Max puts a finger on the Porter's head, turns him for the door. PORTER No like boy? Something then for smoke -- mmmh, very good for smoke!
Max eases the Porter out.   As the door is closing... PORTER Maybe you like two girls -- look a little Chinese, but very great pleasure. Max smiles his smile and disappears the Porter behind the closed door. The smile disappears and the FAN gets his attention; it has an annoying rhythm and sound. He flicks the switch, but the fan continues to snap around. 
He stares at it... and startles us by suddenly flicking out a hand and grabbing the blade, stopping the fan. He lets go. The fan is still. He carries his knapsack to the tub; it has brown stains along the middle and the water has a brown tinge as it flows out of the tap. He sits on the edge of the tub, dumps his knapsack on the floor, picks up a half-dozen pamphlets from the ashram.
He wings the pamphlets at the trashcan.
EMPTY_LINE
CHILD Daaaaaaddddddyyyyy! The word catches Hasari's ear. He looks into the sea of people along the river bank under the bridge. CHILD Daaaaaadddddddyyyy! As in a dream, Shambu rises up out of the sea of bodies ... and runs to his father. SHAMBU Daaaaadddddyyyy!
HASARI I told you to remain where I left you! I told you to stay there! MANOOJ The police came! SHAMBU We said we had to meet you, but they didn't care! They were mean! As before, Hasari tries to engulf the rest of his family in the protectorate of his arms. In the b.g., Arun and his family.
These friends have found space. They will share with us. Hasari looks at the tiny space. The roof is cardboard and cloth and half an old movie poster featuring the actor Kumar Kapur. Hasari looks at his tiny bit of food, debates a moment... then puts his hands together, addresses these generous people. HASARI I would be proud if you would share our food with us. Everyone looks at the food; there is no disguising their hunger.
I remember the first time I saw you, on the day of our marriage. Wearing a bright yellow turban. You asked me my name and you said, 'You are a very beautiful girl and I am wondering whether you will find me appealing.' He strokes her tenderly in return... but now, overwhelmed with despair, she begins to weep. HASARI What? She doesn't want to say it, doesn't want to wake the children. HASARI It's all right -- what? ALOKA I miss the village.    There I could help. Hasari pulls Aloka close, strokes her.
Swarming police.
Awaken -- startled, disoriented. Aloka gentles the children as Hasari moves instinctively toward the threat.
A black ambassadorial car pulls up, out of which steps a BABU. A microphone and speaker has been set up. Another car unloads several politicos with party banners. A minion hands the Babu the mike; he wants to get on with it before this turns into a political rally. Hasari is close to him, as is Arun. BABU The municipality has directed us to carry out the destruction of this settlement. All of you must go -- now! For a moment there is a babble of fear and frustration. Then from Hasari's side, Arun confronts the Babu. ARUN For what reason? The Babue appears disconcerted.   He's not accustomed to the poor asking questions. BABU Because this settlement is impeding construction work.
We're not moving! Why should we move? Who is the municipality? We are! This is our home! BABU I have my orders. ARUN If we're driven from here, where should we go? BABU I'll give you five minutes to gather your things. Then, the settlement comes down. 
ARUN Why should you alone be burdened with such a task? Let me help! Arun begins to tear his shelter apart, and to heave the pieces at the Babu, who retreats. Others soon take up the call to vent their frustration, hurling things at the police and at the driver of the tractor. Quickly we've got a full-scale riot. The police wade into the crowd, pounding people with their sticks, Arun one of the first to get hit. He staggers into Hasari's arms.
Daddy, are we going to die here? Hasari can see on everyone's face this question.
No! Today, I'm just a mangy dog on the street, but soon, I swear, I'll look other men in the eye!  I swear. Yet on his face we see the extraordinary pressure to make this promise reality.
He feels a tug at his elbow.   It's a 15-year-old BOY with thick, scholarly spectacles. RAFIK Why live like a beggar when you can live like a maharajah? Hasari stares at the boy.
Hasari seated on a stool, watching his blood leave his body, his face broken out in perspiration. HASARI I thought you were only taking a little. ATTENDANT We pay more, we take more. HASARI I'm feeling a little dizzy. ATTENDANT It'll pass.
RAFIK Blood is the oil well of the poor, brother. Now, give me another three and I'll give you these. He opens his hand with its dirty nails. In it lie a little group of pills, like highly-colored sweets. HASARI What are those? RAFIK Vitamins. Take these and you can give again in a week.
RAFIK One week.   Here. The same time. And he's gone, leaving Hasari, woozy but at least, for the moment, blessed to count his money.
They're in the shotgun. There's the snap from center, the clock is running -- five, four, three -- he has an open man at the Notre Dame twenty for the victory... and he freezes. He freezes! Mr. Choke chokes. The fans go -- A KNOCK at the door. Max shuts up, falls off the wall. He crosses to the door. Opens it. POOMINA is 16, beautiful and exotic-looking behind her excessive makeup.
I can do anything you want, sahib. She fingers the   Hebrew letter at Max's throat, on its gold chain. For    a moment, Max is mesmerized by this child; but then,   as she begins more serious ministra- tions, he pulls   back. MAX Hold it, time out. Time, there's time out on the field. POOMINA Is problems, sahib? MAX Is problems, yeah, just a couple. POOMINA No, please, yes, I can --
How 'bout some chow?  I was just about to order some room service. Food. I call, they come, we eat. She stares at him. Max smokes a Monte  Cristo and watches Poomina, like a frightened little  animal, devour the last of a Green Acres room service  meal and then wrap a small piece of fish in the paper  napkin. 
She looks up at him, delivers a small burp.    Covers her mouth in charming embarrassment. POOMINA Now, you are ready for great pleasure, yes? MAX Watching you eat was my great pleasure. Now you go home. As he escorts her toward the door, Poomina is distressed. Max realizes she can't leave empty-handed. He pulls out some notes.
For you. She hasn't given up, though, and as he takes the money, she stands on tiptoe and kisses him. Torn, Max begins to respond. He stops  himself, his grip on her causing her discomfort. His  breath comes in little bursts. MAX You're a very wet kisser. Work on it, get in touch in five years. He leads her toward the door. Like some lunatic comedy. she resists. He pushes. She locks her knees. He opens the door. MAX Goddamn it, cut it out!   Now, good night. He muscles her out the  door, closes it, wipes his lips. He stares at a parade  of cockroaches gliding along the wall as he listens to  her CRYING quietly on the other side of the door. He   debates... and he loses. Opens the door. Poomina stands   there; the tears stop and a lip- twitching smile lights  her face. MAX Five years already? Gee, time really flies when you have no moral conviction. She slides into his arms, pressing against him. With his shoulder, he closes the door, leaving us outside.
EMPTY_LINE
Poomina watches Max do a sleight-of-hand trick with a coin. He tosses it up, brings his hands past each other, then holds out his fists; she picks on... but the other holds the penny. Fooled, she laughs. He does it again; she points to one fist -- empty -- then other -- also empty. Max reaches behind her ear and... produces the coin. She loves it, her laughter escalating. But then she seesm to read something in the b.g. where we see four thugs, two of whom will become known to us as THE GOONDA, a capo to the local "mafia" chieftan, and ASHOKA, son of the local Godfather. Ashoka works on a pimple on his chin. The Goonda meticulously cleans a spot of mud with spit from one of his expensive new running shoes. Max eyes the thugs eyeing him.
Short guys!   Quit lookin' at us! This remark goes over big with the thugs. Max doesn't care. He knocks off the last of the beer in his bottle. The bartender brings them two shots of something in two unmatched glasses. POOMINA Special drink for you, sahib. Only the most man can drink it. You make try. For me. MAX For you, I would drink battery acid. POOMINA Who that finish first.   I bet! She puts her glass to her lips and, in a childish, exaggerated way, mimes waiting for him to commence a drinking race with her. The two of them toss off what's in their glasses. The bangla in Max's glass is stronger than battery acid. He does an elaborate routine involv- ing the pain, the surprise, the sheer awfulness of the drink. But puts it down with mock machismo. POOMINA I beat! MAX I really don't think so -- oh no, nay, nay! I never lose the truly irrelevant contest. POOMINA We have fun some more.   I bet again! 
She turns to the bartender, calls for two more. All the while, in the b.g., The Goonda and his two thugs watch emotionlessly and Ashoka works on his acne.
Well well. Seek punishment and ye shall find. Knowing what's  coming, Max nevertheless unleashes a beautiful howl  and tries to trample The Goonda off- tackle. From   behind, he's hit with a length of stick. He goes down,  looks up through blasted eyes at Ashoka as two sticks now  land against his shoulder and his head...
ARUN Don't go -- what are you doing?
It sounds like someone needs help. Hasari bolts for the corner.
As Hasari turns into the head of the alley, he can see three men beating someone, a fourth man standing off to the side, watching. HASARI What are you doing?  A man's being beaten here! As Hasari runs down the alley, the MOTORCYCLE FIRES UP and SCREAMS OFF and the three goons take flight.
The crucifix sways. Now Max's eyes RACK FOCUS TO the cherubic face of JOAN BETHAL, peering AT the CAMERA without sympathy.
Max on a cot in a tiny, spare room, a butterfly bandage under one eye. Joan, Irish, short, stout, hovers over him. Behind her, Hasari Pal. JOAN Good morning, junior, welcome to our country. Max manages to sit up.   Wishes he hadn't. MAX Oh, I like the way the room moves in circles. (checking out his accommodations) I suppose I should inquire where I am.
You're in the City of Joy. MAX Is that geographic or spiritual? JOAN Oh, now we require that each visitor decide that for himself. This gentleman and a young lady brought you here. MAX Did I do that to your nose?  I'm sorry. 
Hasari shrugs, smiles... and a gigantic rat drops in Max's lap. He leaps to his feet and against the wall. The rat scurries away. MAX What was that -- a Shetland pony? JOAN I would have to inspect it more closely, but I believe that was one of our economy-size rats. Max clambers for the door.        Too late, Joan thinks to say...
Watch your -- Max cracks his head on the door frame. MAX Thanks -- got it. He ducks outside for some air.
In the dawn light, he finds himself in a small square in a slum, an open sewer running before him. He's repulsed.
Pardon the expression, but Jesus H. Christ. From the tea shop, SURYA, a stout old Hindu man dressed in Western clothes, raises a hand in greeting to Joan. On the door Max and Joan have come through: "City of Joy Self Help School & Clinic." Across the way, a young man is dandling a baby on his knee, rubbing its back and sniffing at its neck. Small group of children around a blackboard with a teacher, MARGARETA, doing numbers. RAM CHANDAR, the rickshaw puller, readies to go out to work. Trying to orient himself, Max turns...
... to find perhaps fifty people, largely women and children, staring at him. 
He knows them by type:   patients.   He looks at the sign on the door. MAX You a doctor? JOAN Oh no, I'm a corporate executive. Doctor arrives at half seven, but only three days a week. MAX This is obviously one of those three days.
Indeed. What brings you to our country? MAX I came to find my white light. JOAN Ah, yes.   I take it you didn't find it. MAX Kept opening the doors and windows of my spirit, but couldn't see a goddamn thing. JOAN What do you do in America? Max is slow to answer.   Discreetly, Hasari hangs back, listens.
Oh, how exciting. Must be something illegal. Are you a criminal of some sort? MAX I suppose that depends how you define the word: I'm a doctor. JOAN I see. How long are you here? Perhaps I could recruit you for -- MAX Forget it. You've got your non- practicing Catholics. I'm a non- practicing doctor. 
JOAN How very distressing.     Why's that? MAX Found out I just really don't like sick people. Well, I'm outta here. I owe you one. JOAN I can't imagine ever divining how to collect, but there are a few of us Indians, you know, who believe the tourist trade ought to be encouraged.
Thank you very much.     Let me... He goes for his money. HASARI No, please. Max finds his pockets empty. Then reaches for his wrist -- his watch is gone -- and then his throat -- his chai is gone, too. JOAN I'm afraid they cleaned you out. Ram, here's your first rider.  Take this.
JOAN Go on, it's all right.     You'll owe me two.
You see, I can keep up. 
RAM Keep up, of course. Anyone can run at this pace. But you think it's easy to run and to pull? HASARI I can do it.   I could pull it. MAX Come on, give him a shot. He's as fast as you and looks twice as strong. RAM Will you still pay me when he runs you into a ditch? MAX Absolutely.    I trust the man. Suddenly, Ram comes to a stop. RAM All right, you, come, step in here. Hasari looks on Max with enormous gratitude. Ram puts the shafts down, has a short coughing fit, spits some phlegm, looks at Max. MAX I hope you're taking something for that. Ram waves him off as Hasari lifts the shafts to his hips. RAM Now, fine, pull, go. Hasari tries to pull, but the center of gravity isn't easy to find. This is enormously difficult and Hasari's very clumsy at it. The street is crowded. The traffic is beginning to back up behind them. The driver and conductor of the tram let fly a tirade of insults. RAM See, mister! What did I tell you? Come on! What do you think this is -- some village street? You've got to move quickly. He turns to Max. RAM You see, it takes a gift. 
MAX I say he can do it. I'll bet you the fare he can do it.  What do you think, rickshaw fans, can he do it? The crowd isn't in for fun. Hasari strains forward. The rickshaw moves with him. Ram moves alongside, shouting instructions and oaths. A cop comes on the run, screaming at Hasai... which makes Ram importune more strongly and Max joke more vociferously. Even under this incredible pressue, Hasari gains confidence and begins to move quicker, earning shouts of approval from Max and Ram, who now has trouble keeping up as they make their way through the maelstrom, an avalanche of oaths following them.
This is the partitioned splendor of an old house sprinkled with the relics of a grand colonial past. Everything is baroque, rotting and somehow impressive. Hasari has never been anywhere like this, and is caught between curiosity and fear of breathing.
Not a tongue between you then? 
RAM Yes, yes, I am wondering, sir, we are, is it possible you might have something for my friend? Ram indicates Hasari, as if there might be some question to whom he's referring. Ashoka attacks the pimple. RAM Let me explain it for your ears, sir. My cousin from Bihar has just arrived in our city -- GOONDA They've brought a small present -- of respect. The Goonda places a small bundle of rupees on the desk. Ashoka allows himself a disinterested glance at Hasari. ASHOKA So, you want to be a human horse? RAM Oh yes! I have personally witnessed his excellence -- yes. ASHOKA He doesn't talk? Can he neigh at least?  You -- do your ears function? HASARI Oh yes, Babu.    Can I... uhm...?
Neigh!   Like a horse. Ashoka pulls back his lips, shows his teeth and imitates a neigh: "Ne-igh! Ne-igh!" HASARI Well, yes, Babu, I can do that. Would you like me to imitate a horse? Finished with the pimple, Ashoka wipes a finger on his shirt and takes a helping off a plate of sweetcakes as...
Behind him, The Godfather walks up to the desk, putting his glasses on. He barely glances at his son, but waves him out of the chair. Ashoka doesn't like it, but he steps aside. As he does, he turns a look of hatred on Hasari. Through no fault of his own, Hasari has made an enemy. Ghatak chews on a pan and casts a benevolent eye on Hasari. GHATAK Lift your longhi. Hasari does.    The Godfather looks at his legs and thighs. GHATAK The wise men of our nation say that nirvana is the attainment of a state of supreme detachment. For me, nirvana is counting each evening, one by one, the rupees earned by my two thousand and forty-six rickshaws. Hasari doesn't know whether to respond. A glance at Ram tells him not to. Ghatak gestures for Hasari to lower his longhi. GHATAK You are with family? HASARI I have a wife and three children, Babu. GHATAK And they must eat, heh. The world is full of open mouths. He chews on this a moment, then opens a drawer... and holds a small, tinkling rickshaw bell toward Hasari. Hasari understands that, incredibly, he has a job. His breath is so shallow, he can barely utter his gratitude. He takes the bell. HASARI I shall be eternally grateful to you. From now on, I shall be as the youngest of your brothers. GHATAK Stay loyal. These days, it's a crop nobody plants. The Godfather turns his beatific and Godlike smile on Hasari Pal. 
Selima, other neighbors greet them as they come. The Pals glance into the school at Joan, who's teaching an evening class.
Reverentially, they follow Ram inside as Joan watches.
Someone has blessed us. A job, a roof, a school. Soon I'll be able to send money home...  ... and put away a little bit for your dowry. In their excitement, the boys run.
and up to the roof, under the stars.   We LOOK UP WITH them and: DISSOLVE TO:
DISSOLVE TO BLACK.
About twenty tattered street kids faces shining with en- joyment. They run and shout as they pursue something just out of frame.
The cause of the excitement is Hasari running TOWARD us, feet flying, as he pulls the rickshaw, loaded with a huge sack. Manooj and Shambu are clinging to the sides of the machine. Ram stands   in the center of the square. He shouts a command and   Hasari struggles to bring the rickshaw to a stop. It's    not easy and Sunil -- who's arriving -- has to jump out of   the way to the accompaniment of apologies from Hasari and   Ram and hoots of laughter from the children. Outside the clinic, a line of perhaps seventy-five wait patiently, watching as Hasari takes off again. The wheels of the rickshaw hit a rut. Hasari loses control, the sack tips back and Hasari is lifted into the air, feet kicking as he tries to regain his balance. Aloka and Amrita, sitting near the bawling Ram, can't hold back their laughter.
Hasari's triumphant ride continues and we: DISSOLVE TO:
Rickshaw wallah! 
RAM Let Hasari go! The line of rickshaw pullers  turns to Hasari. The other pullers wish him well as he  comes forward. His heart pounds; ever so politely, he  helps the School Girl into his carriage. She gives him   the address of the St. Pius School. HASARI I'm sorry, I don't know where that is. You're my very first passenger. SCHOOL GIRL Really.   Well, I hope I bring you luck. She gives him a sweet smile. SCHOOL GIRL That way, and then to the right. His moment has arrived. He looks at Ram... and thrusts his hips forward, setting off into the insanity of the traffic, eyes flicking left and right. A HORN RAILS at him and a taxi tries to run him down, calling and laugh- ing as Hasari jumps in terror. RAM  Feed the police! Other pullers laugh,  call after Hasari... and as he approaches the first  corner, he manages to pull out a rupee and deposit it  into the hand of the impassive traffic policeman and  then turn right.
This is my home address. Pick me up promptly at seven each morning. HASARI Yes, thank you, you can depend on me. The girl runs into the school  yard, met immediately by friends. Hasari looks around   at the clean, bustling school, at all the children in  their crisp uniforms and a look of great yearning comes  over his face.
Beef. You know -- cow? Minced, little salt, pepper, slap it flat like this, throw it on the grill, flip it. Now, though, he just glimpses the shiny gas tank and engine of a motorcycle around the hip of the waiter. He leans out.
Put it on the grill, I'll be right back.
He pulls the boy's ear, REVS the ENGINE to go... and senses someone close. He turns to find an American hovering at his shoulder. MAX You know, I have to say you really don't look Jewish. I believe that's mine.
ASHOKA Don't touch me. No one touches me. MAX Really? Max grabs Ashoka... who breaks free, and GUNS the CYCLE down a side street. Max gives chase, his aching ribs slowing him a bit.
Ashoka, glancing back, begins to open up some distance. Yet, Max hangs tough, weaving like a broken field runner through the mass of bodies and vehicles. Now, suddenly, he loses Ashoka. He has to make a choice about this corner or that one. He chooses.
Oh... great... good...good timing ...him!
COP May I see your passport? MAX Passport? I'm in the middle of a high speed chase. That guy -- COP Passport please. A crowd has begun to form. In the distance, we see a group of girls carrying cricket equipment COMING AT us. MAX It's in my hotel room.
Passport, please, now. MAX Ready my lips: I do not have my passport with me at this...  Ah, I see, said the blind man. The Cop obviously is doing this at Ashoka's behest. Max starts around the Cop. The Cop, however, sticks his club in Max's face; there's fire in Max's eyes... but a hand takes the Cop's stick before Max can make a big mistake.
Well, all right, junior, so you'll owe me three.
With great pride, Hasari pays the scribe, seals the money order with the message in an envelope, licks the flap, and puts the envelope into the mail slot.
JOAN Oh, it was just a whim in the beginning really -- to try to convince them not to be so bloody passive, that they could pull themselves up on their own. I get a little money from a Swiss organization. Now it's become a bit more than I can manage. MAX It's got to be like trying to drill a hole in water, though. JOAN We just need a few more hands on this little life raft we've set afloat here. 
They stare at each other. Shambu has become one of Surya's tea boys and refills their tea. JOAN You know what I've come to think in my middle age, Max? MAX Nope, no, earthly idea. You're pretty much outta my league, thought-wise. JOAN There are really only three actions open to a person.
Only three -- okay.   And what are they? JOAN To run, to spectate, to commit. Max peers at her a moment, then around the square. MAX Has it occurred to you that this obsession with charity is really a flaw in your character? JOAN Charity! It's not charity, dear child, it's love. You're very badly twisted around, aren't you? MAX One of us sure as hell is. The clinic's part-time doctor, SUNIL DASGUPTA, comes out of the clinic after a very long day. SUNIL I'm off for home, Sister Joan. A pleasure to meet you, Dr. Loeb. MAX The same. SUNIL See you day after tomorrow. JOAN Good night, God bless, Doctor.  Generous young man. 
As he watches Sunil head away, Max senses something com- ing at him from the side. A soccer ball almost hits him; he jumps up, handles the ball athletically.
He begins to play with Manooj and several other children. Shambu leaves his post in the tea shop to join them. MANOOJ Are you the American doctor?    Are you coming here to help us. MAX No, I'm the visiting American soccer star, El Max. MANOOJ Do you go to the cinema in America, El Max? MAX When I was your age -- two movies, plus cartoons every Saturday. Aloka and Amrita are cooking on an open fire bucket. Max almost knocks the fire over. Aloka looks at him, apolo- getic, shy... as Manooj knocks Shambu down at Max's feet. Max scoops the little boy up... MAX There you go, little guy.    Ut -- what's this? Reaching behind Shambu's ear, Max produces a boiled sweet. Aloka watches this with a smile; their eyes touch again... as Manooj lets out a cry at the sight of their father.
Ram and Hasari return home. Hasari can hardly walk. Shambu runs to his father, explaining excitedly... SHAMBU Daddy, there is the doctor from America. He saw two movies every Saturday. What's in your fist? Open, Daddy! Shambu pries his father's fist open:   seeds. 
SHAMBU Seeds?   Why? HASARI So we can watch something grow.
Another few months, I'll be able to pay off the moneylender in my village and go home and open a grocery shop. All around me sacks overflowing with all kinds of dal and rice, aromatic spices, piles of vegetables... and at night, I'll lie on my back beneath the trees sniffing fresh aubergines. This beautiful picture burrows into Hasari's mind.   For a moment, he goes there -- home, to the village... RAM If my wife will let me come within a hundred miles of the place where she herself resides. Ram laughs, Hasari smiles...
Amrita, I saw a beautiful wedding sari today. Amrita is terribly embarrassed. RAM It was six hundred rupees only. He laughs at the impossibility of the price. MAX That's only 40 dollars, isn't it? HASARI If you have it. 
MAX I'll send it to you from America when I get home tomorrow. HASARI That's very generous but no, thank you. MAX Repayment for punching you in the nose. HASARI You have repaid me by sharing our supper.
Doctor Big Brother, I myself would be willing to accept a gift. Could you give me five rupees in a note -- ten, perhaps. My ankle is badly swelled; the higher the number the more the swelling sinks. Max has to laugh. MAX I don't have a cent on me.   I'll owe you. RAM How much?
It's an amazing sight. Two lepers: ANOUAR, bearded with a sharp intelligent, unmarked face, makes his way along on a small wheeled board, at an amazingly fast pace, ahead of SAID, a huge, mute leper. They stop some feet away. Lepers aren't often welcome. Out from behind Said steps Poomina. POOMINA Joan Di, my sister! 
She sees Max, gasps, throws herself behind Said. Joan looks at Max -- he starts to speak, she points a finger that silences him... JOAN It was Poomina who brought you to us. She has herself and her sister to support. It's all right, Poomina. Anouar, what is it? She moves to them.   They're all three badly out of breath.
It's Meeta! It's her time. But something is wrong. The midwives don't know what to do! Dr. Sunil, could he help, perhaps? JOAN Dr. Sunil isn't here. POOMINA Meeta will die.
Joan turns to Max, who hasn't heard the exchange. JOAN Max, I wouldn't ask, but it's an emergency. A pregnancy gone awry. It's a leper. Could you have a look? Max is clearly thrown by the sight of the lepers. MAX I don't have any experience with leprosy. JOAN Good Christ, son, because she's a leper doesn't mean she's not built like a woman! HASARI I can run and get Dr. Sunil. JOAN It's too far. 
Suddenly, impulsively... ALOKA I could help.    I've had three babies. RAM You can't do that. They're outcasts, they're unclean. There are murmurs of assent from the others. JOAN Oh nonsense!    It's not contagious!
You're a doctor, how can you not help?
Anouar points into a hut. Joan and Aloka precede Max inside. Max forgets to bend and bumps his head.
A middle-age leper is leaning over her -- a midwife, encouraging Meeta with a string of commands in their own language. Max kneels, Aloka at his side.   His breathing becomes shallow... but then he pulls off  the blood-soaked bandages. Between Meeta's legs   he can just make out the bottom of a foot. The child   is breached. Maybe already dead. ALOKA Will she die? Max goes into reflex actions. Joan has opened the first aid kit. There's a flashlight among the medicine, alcohol, compresses, scissors, etc. He hands the flash- light to Aloka as... MAX  Pull me two c.c.'s of Coramine. He nods at Aloka; she illuminates the scene. MAX Uh-oh, uh-oh, who's this coming' down the lane? Why it's -- is it possible -- way over here, in India -- yes, it's Mr. Choke. He comes to a stop. Everyone stares at him. Meeta moans. For a moment, he stays frozen. Aloka reaches out instinctively, wipes the sweat from his eyes. This gesture seems to free him; he looks at her, looks at the room and its expectant, trusting faces...
I'm going to have to turn it -- the baby. Tell her she has to relax these muscles as much as she can. He doesn't finish the sentence. Aloka speaks softly to Meeta as Max takes Meeta's arm, makes a tourniquet. Joan hands him the syringe and he injects. Hands the syringe back to Joan and begins to work at turning the baby. Aloka takes Meeta's hand and it's a moment before we realize Aloka, with her fine hand, is holding Meeta's fingerless palm.
A small group waits, trying to determine from the sounds what's happening inside. Anouar pours tea from a pot on the small fire, offers the cup to Hasari. Hasari stares at the cup, doesn't want to be impolite, but more than that, doesn't want to touch the cup. He shakes his head, smiles. Anouar drinks off the tea.
Sweat pours down Max's face into his eyes. He shakes it out. Aloka leans forward and, with her new sari, wipes the sweat away again. Max nods thanks. MAX Tell her again to breathe in short little bursts now. He demonstrates. Aloka does the same to Meeta. Meeta tries to cooperate. And suddenly Max has the baby turned. MAX All right!   Now, tell her to push. Aloka translates. Meeta pushes.      The midwife, the little girl, Aloka lean forward. MAX Again.   Yes!   Again.   It's coming.
No one is sitting now. Everyone hangs close to the door. Only Hasari remains apart, seated on a tree stump in the middle of the quad. He coughs; suppresses it.
MAX I've got the head. Come on, little baby, come on, little baby. Be alive, be alive, be alive. Aloka wipes the sweat away again. He looks at her, his voice squeezed out through his teeth. MAX We've got it, we've got it.     Yeah! 
He seems as released as Meeta. Then he gives a last gentle tug and a CRY squeezes out of the little piece of life in his hands. Max is fairly overwhelmed by the life in his hands. Poomina steps close, a smile on her lovely face, and touches the baby in Max's hands.
For a non-practicing doctor, that was pretty practiced. MAX Never been so scared in my life. It's a warm, open moment between them.   But now there's the ongoing desperation of her needs. JOAN Max, please, won't you change your mind? We desperately need another doctor. Full-time. Think about it -- just give us a couple of months. MAX Can't do it. Maybe you've got it in you to be a saint. I just don't.
Then what do you want? What are you going to be when you grow up? Good night, Aloka, Hasari. Joan goes inside, leaving Max, Aloka, and a very uncom- fortable Hasari alone a moment. ALOKA Thank you for allowing me to go with you. MAX You could make a helluva nurse. A little smile comes over her face; no one's ever paid her that kind of compliment. She goes into Ram's hut, leaving Max and Hasari now. 
HASARI I think perhaps you are a good man. Hasari brings his hands together and goes inside.
Jesus, my brother, you who I am trying to believe are the light and salvation of the puking world THE PALS Aloka sits huddled with her husband while their children sleep; they listen... JOAN Please see that we are living in madness and darkness here... MAX listens. JOAN ... and we need help. Om, Jesus, om and amen. Suddenly, he hurtles into motion. He runs down the alley, his stride stretching out, swallowing up the distance between here and the world beyond the City of Joy in great gulps.
Yes, yes, yes, that's right, yes! I turned in your ticket!
BETSY I bought it, I got a refund! MAX But I want to go home with you. BETSY You want to go home with me?
Yes. BETSY Then prove it. MAX Good -- how -- name it. BETSY Buy yourself a ticket. MAX I would love to do    that, Betsy Ilene, boy would I    love to do just that, but I'm    financially embarrassed at the    -- BETSY Use your credit cards.
What credit cards? You know I maxed them before we left. Just lend me -- BETSY No! You won't pay me back; you never have. Oh, Max! MAX They're calling our flight. I want to go home with you, Betsy Ilene Kahn. Because I have a vision. It's... He's trying to woo and charm her.    He mimes a kind of house shape.
MAX I see you and me, Betsy Ilene Kahn, nibbling toward each other through a quarter pounder with cheese, chugalugging a frosty light beer -- great taste! Less filling! Bowling! I want to go bowling, Besty Ilene Kahn! He fires a strike through the watching crowd. MAX I want... Oh, my Lord Amighty, I want so many American things --
Oh, stop it! You have no earthly idea what you want, Max! And stop calling me Betsy Ilene Kahn. MAX Isn't that your name? BETSY You call me Betsy Ilene Kahn like you just met me yesterday. MAX What should I call you?   My girl, my significant other -- BETSY Don't get cute! You get cute and I swear to God --- you told me once I look like my mother!
You do -- so what? BETSY See -- you don't understand! MAX How could I possibly not understand a conversation as easy as this one, Betsy Ilene. BETSY I hate you! MAX Na ya don't. 
BETSY I stood by you for three years! MAX I know. BETSY I supported you through your internship! MAX You did. BETSY Why? It was never working. What have I been thinking all these years -- that you'd change? You're the most self-pitying, self-destructive, self... She can't find anything fierce enough, so she abates, tries to get it together to make a dignified exit. BETSY But you've taught me something, Max. You never finish anything. Well, I quit. I've found my light and I'm free of you. She heads for the gate, people parting to give her a wide berth.
Will you at least call my mother and ask her to empty my savings account and wire -- BETSY Do it yourself, Max. Call her collect. You should have called her weeks ago anyway just because she's your mother!  White light, white light...! She hands her ticket and boarding pass over and she's through the gate. Max turns to find the audience fixed on him. 
MAX Guerilla theater, folks. 'All the world's a stage.'  Don't know if that word reached you here yet. If you'd care to show your appreciation by a small donation... Many smiles... and several instant offers of rupees.      A beat, then... MAX Aw, what the hell. ... Swallowing his incredible embarrassment, Max takes the money.
Good morning, Joan Di. Dr. Loeb said many of us could be helped; that all it would take is money for medication. Anouar hands Joan some newspaper in which something is wrapped. Joan opens the paper. Inside is a good deal of money. ANOUAR Please buy the medication for us. If we cannot come here to receive it, perhaps Dr. Loeb would come to us. JOAN I'll be happy to buy the medication, but Dr. Loeb is not part of this endeavor, Anouar; there is only his cherished memory. ANOUAR Then perhaps I am having visions. Anouar's focus is up the lane.   Joan follows his focus to:
Max approaches. A buzz    about Max's heroics; hands coming together. Max raises a    hand in benediction, makes the sign of the cross. Max    claps Hasari on the shoulder; Hasari brings his hands   together and gives Max a genuinely pleased smile.    Children circle and touch him, Manooj and Shambu among   them.
JOAN Not worth the aggravation of your prattle every day. Six months -- and not a day less. MAX No way. Six weeks -- and that's my best offer. JOAN Two months -- and that's my final offer. MAX  Done. JOAN Jesus and Mary. The Lone Ranger rides again. And now smiles creep onto all their faces as Max goes inside, followed by Joan... and then Aloka -- after she looks at Hasari, gets his nod of encouragement. Too late, Joan says... JOAN Watch your -- Thud! MAX Thanks -- got it. The children titter. The teacher, Margareta, admonishes them to pay attention and be polite... as we --
FADE IN: WEEKS LATER) The wheels spinning furiously and then stopping abruptly. Hasari, dripping with sweat, panting. The School Girl comes running toward him. After her, in the b.g., her MOTHER. SCHOOL GIRL Hasari, where have you been? I've been waiting almost five minutes. 
HASARI I'm sorry, forgive me.   It won't happen again. SCHOOL GIRL We're not going to school today. You're taking my mother and me to the Bara Bazar. I'm getting married! HASARI Oh, I am so pleased for you! Panting helplessly, Hasari smiles... as he helps the School Girl's Mother into the rickshaw.
Good morning, Hasari. HASARI Good morning, missus. Briskly, he takes up the shafts and sets off. MOTHER Turn right at that corner, Hasari. HASARI It's farther that way, missus. MOTHER No, not really. Turn there, please. Obediently, Hasari turns (as Ramatullah, heading the other way, passes; they wave) and Hasari pulls AWAY FROM us.
MOTHER Don't say things like that. He's never going to be able to buy anything here.
He watches from outside, a look of determination coming over his face. Suddenly a pair of fingers takes hold of his ear, twisting his face painfully.
Not working? How will my father eat this evening? HASARI I was just... ASHOKA You have a daughter? HASARI Yes, Babu. MARWARI Rickshaw wallah! Called to work, Hasari starts for his rickshaw, but Ashoka hangs on to his ear for another uncomfortable moment... as he slips a rupee into Hasari's shirt pocket.
Keep working. Give this to Sister Joan and your friend the doctor when you go home. Now he hands Hasari a sealed envelope and turns his ear loose. Hasari springs toward his passenger.
MAX He's just malnourished. Is she giving him the milk we gave her or selling it? Aloka asks Meeta in Hindi. Meeta clearly swears she's giving the baby the milk. Aloka pushes her. ALOKA Not all.     Most. MAX Tell her to give all the milk to the baby.
Psst. She looks at him. MAX It's okay.
Good night, I'll see you day after tomorrow. MAX Good night, Sunil. 
"... Deep in the heart of Texas, around the Frisco Bay..." Manooj and Shambu come charging at Max with the soccer ball, hoping to engage him as a playmate. Hasari returns home with his rickshaw. Selima waves at Max, indicates she's cooking dinner. Joan wanders out of the school as the kids are released and go charging through the square. Joan has the Pal kids in hand. SELIMA Very special supper for you tonight, Doctor Big Brother!   Will you stay?
Wish I could, Selima,  because I'm sure hungry! Sixteen   hours of pestilence and misery  always make me famished. I have   to go with my man Anouar tonight.   I've got lepers to heal! ANOUAR No, no, you know how patient we are. Eat, eat. MAX  You're not tired, are you? ALOKA Not if you're not. Between Hasari and Aloka, there's just a flicker of tension; evidently, this has become Max's normal day. But he's also worried about the note from Ashoka. Joan joins them with the Pal children. JOAN Well, I think we've got three very good potential scholars here. Behind the children's backs, she points at Manooj and indicates the kid's really got a head. JOAN Given him some time here, he'll be good enough for a proper school. HASARI It's more than a father could hope. 
MAX Fifteen years from now: Miami, Florida, Dr. Manooj Pal, in association with Dr. Maxwell Loeb. For a moment, Hasari is swept up in this little reverie, then remembers reality. HASARI  From the godfather's son. For you and the doctor. Amidst instant concern, Joan opens the envelope.   Looks at Max. We hear the sound of BANGLADESH MUSIC.
GHATAK Acha! Now we see   Max and Joan seated on cushions before the godfather,   tea in hand. Max catches a glimpse in an anteroom of   several thugs with several young girls, one of whom is   Poomina. She catches a glimpse of Max as she disappears   past a door. A moment later, her head peeks around the   door frame. She brings her hands together. ASHOKA You!
I understand that you're interested in expanding your clinic and free school, and that you intend to start treating lepers in the City of Joy. JOAN We'd like to better serve the entire community, Mr. Ghatak. 
GHATAK Of course. That's very good. Admirable. And we'd be pleased to rent you suitable space. But you must understand that certain payments will go up. JOAN I understand the rent would have to go up if we rent larger quarters from you, Mr. Ghatak, but why should we have to pay more protection? GHATAK More people, more potential trouble. Strangers. If I don't charge you, what will I tell others? JOAN But we can't afford it! GHATAK Surely if you can expand, you can pay more. Joan throws up her hands -- how do you reason with this man? MAX Am I stupid, but isn't this protection money money we're paying you to protect us from you? GHATAK We live in chaotic times, Miss Bethel, Doctor. I control the City of Joy and maintain it as a model of harmony. It's a miracle, but a very fragile miracle. MAX And how are we threatening your miracle? GHATAK I admire your courage in choosing to work in such a violent place, Miss Bethel.  
GHATAK Your neighbors in the City of Joy, they're not educated, they're given to violence, to meanness, I can promise you they won't like having lepers among them, but because they know you're under my protection... He dispatches a globule of spit into the copper urn next to his right toe... and tries to get to his feet. The Goonda hurries forward to help him. GHATAK Doctor, do you like our music?
Well, I can't say I've developed a craving for it yet. GHATAK It's difficult to appreciate what we don't understand, isn't it? Let me put it another way: The world is a terrible place. Only the ruthless prevail. My son will make the arrangements with you. One of the thugs helps the godfather outside, where, in the b.g., we see him listening to his music and pottering in his garden. As Max and Joan turn, Max finds himself face to face with Ashoka, who wears Max's necklace and chai. There's a long pause as the two of them take the other's measure. MAX  I like your taste in neckwear. Joan puts a cautioning hand on Max's arm. Ashoka seems just the slight bit uneasy dealing with Max and so keeps trying to direct himself to Joan. He smokes a long Indian cigarette. ASHOKA The entire package we're proposing will cost you three thousand rupees a month. Joan is taken aback by the sum. JOAN If we pay you that, we won't have any money for supplies. 
ASHOKA I'm told you're very resourceful. MAX I think I see a solution. May I? What if we were to work out a profit-sharing arrangement? We give you a share of our net profit. ASHOKA How do you expect to make a profit off of lepers and the poor, Doctor? MAX Beats the hell outta me, asshole. But you've obviously found a way. The question would seem to be whether Ashoka will have Max killed here or outside the house. His eyes on Max, Ashoka puts the cigarette out against the back of his hand... and smiles at Max.
JOAN Stop it, you... you... you nudnick! He doesn't stop, and as she storms off down the street, he stays right on her, tickling away.
Hasari, with Shambu in the rickshaw, arrives to take the children home. As he looks inside, he notices...
Not far from Amrita sits a handsome boy . He catches Amrita's eyes. Amrita is sweetly embarrassed to find her father staring at her.
But he can't help but smile. At the same time he's re- minded moment to moment of his various obligations.
Who gave you your rickshaw? HASARI The Godfather. ASHOKA Who provides the food you eat? HASARI The Godfather. ASHOKA Remember:   Loyalty. He gives Hasari's ear a last tug... and the car continues on, leaving Hasari. He looks at his children, ashamed to have been cowed. Manooj fixes his father with a hard look.
Hasari is stretched out, Aloka rubbing his screaming legs. Throughout the following, their eyes meet and deflect... SALADDIN The Godfather is at least civilized. The son is vicious. Remember the last elections -- the Molotov coctails, the blows with iron bars. They'll throw us out. We won't be able to find anyone else to rent to us. We'll just have to agree to pay what he wants. MEHBOUB Saladdin's right. Neither nature nor the people with the power have any conscience. We have to pay. A sigh escapes Surya.   He shakes his head.    Eyes flick at him. ASHISH What do you say, Doctor Big Brother? SUNIL I think we must try to break the Godfather's hold on us.
MAX You try to negotiate with these people, you make compromises with them, they'll eat you alive. Stand up against them now and they'll fold. I guarantee it. Underneath, they're cowards, they got no guts. We show them we're strong and the'll just move on to easier pickings. ASHISH We?   You have an airplane ticket. Still, he's clearly piqued a lot of support.
You know, Max, this is not American gangster television. SALADDIN Yes, if you're wrong, you don't have to be here. MAX I'm not wrong. You bow your heads, you plead with your Gods to do what you won't do yourselves. You put up with this nightmare as if there were no choice. I'm telling you, if you don't stand up to that little pimple face now, he'll own you for the rest of your lives. Everyone stares at him. Many of them want to buy his commitment. There's another large sigh from Surya. Aloka and Hasari's eyes bang off of each other, she silently urging him to speak. He's deeply conflicted and deeply frightened. ANOUAR Even though I am invisible to some of you and I don't have a complete set of legs to stand on, I stand with the Doctor Big Brother. Maybe nature doesn't have a conscience or those with the power, but don't we? Said, the giant mute, mades an unintelligible sound in his throat, but clearly he's agreeing with Anouar. 
MARGARETA I agree with Anouar and Max Daddah. I think it's worth the chance. Silence... until Aloka and Hasari's meet again and, out of his terrible fear and conflict, he says very shyly... HASARI Is it permitted to speak? There are quick nods around the room.   With great difficulty, Hasari says his piece. HASARI I want my children to be educated and cared for; this is our home, we have never had such friends. But many of us owe a great debt to the Godfather. He is strong and could kill us... But we must choose. I trust my Big Brother. I say we must stand up. There's still dissension, but somewhat more support. Said makes a fierce, unintelligible supportive sound. Surya sighs again. Eyes flick at the old man. SUNIL Sister Joan, what do you think, really? JOAN Well, I think Max has hit on the heart of what we're trying to build here: a self-help society. Each of us has to decide for himself. As for me, I suppose I think, really, that if the bastards are going to suck us dry, I'd like to get in a couple of good left- handers before I turn the other cheek. SALLADIN But who will rent to us! Surya clucks his tongue and shakes his head; everyone assumes he is preparing a heated refutation of the resisters. His sighs, though, have been a building commitment. 
SURYA I have a property I will    rent you for two hundred rupees a    month, and not a rupee less. As     for protection... you are on    your own. Many of the faces are uncertain -- Hasari's notable among them.
I) UPSTAIRS AND STAIRWELL Hasari and Max    move the last cot upstairs and into place beside a    window that will come into play at the end . Hasari nods to Max, indicating he    should look. J) THEIR POV Everyone gathered as Shanta and Ashish put a banner above the door: "You are invited to the festival of this world and your life is blessed." The assemblage applauds and embraces. K) UPSTAIRS
He thrusts the paper at Max.   Max takes a pen from his pocket. MAX Okay -- shott. RAM Yes -- what is the word -- that word -- when land is watered... with canals? MAX "Irrigation"? RAM Yes, yes, that word, I want that word in the letter. Max looks at him, nods, waits.   Ram stares at Max; waits. MAX Well? RAM Well? MAX What would you like to say to your wife? RAM I don't know, Max Daddah. If I knew what to say to my wife, I'd never have left home. Everybody laughs, though Ram's remark hits Max on a deeper level. Manooj slides in beside him. MANOOJ Why do you have to go home, Doctor Babu? ALOKA Because he doesn't live here, Manooj. This is not his home. A look between Max and Aloka; Hasari's eyes flicking at both of them... as Aloka's eyes come to Hasari. The cigar reaches Ram. As Max starts to write, Ram takes a large puff and blows a huge ring out of his mouth. We FOLLOW it.
A whole row of faces on rooftops enjoying the cigar. This as we: DISSOLVE TO:
On no! Lepers! Lepers in my neighborhood! ANOUAR Sshh! Doctor Big Brother, please, we are pretending not to be lepers. MAX Oh, oh, I didn't get the concept -- of course, not lepers. I think you're going to fool a lot of people. I have only one question: Why are you here? ANOUAR We've come to take you to the dispensary in grand style on this special day, haven't we, Hasari? HASARI Yes.
Na, I'll just trot alongside Hasari. HASARI No, please, get in. Max climbs into the rickshaw beside the two lepers and Hasari pulls away. ANOUAR Meeta's very excited by this ride through Calcutta. You see, she's never been sightseeing before. Meeta, of course, is blind.   Max, Hasari, Anouar laugh. MAX You're incorrigible, Anouar. 
ANOUAR Yes, yes, I know, thank you very much. As the rickshaw disappears into the sea of people and vehicles, we hear Anouar and Max LAUGHING.
Where Ashoka waits. ASHOKA You taking that to the clinic?  You like it there?  And they love your smile, don't they? She's fearful now and doesn't respond. He grabs her, the water pitcher crashes to the ground, he puts his knife into her mouth and lays her face open on both side with his knife.
It is too beautiful to believe. 
As if indeed she were right, their path is suddenly cut off by the Goonda and a commando of thugs, armed with sticks and iron bars, backed up by a group carrying banners with slogans proclaiming in Hindi, Urdu, English: "We Don't Want Lepers Here!" There's a sudden uneasy silence. Behind the thugs a short distance is the policeman who harassed Max earlier and another cop. Joan hurries forward. GOONDA Good morning, Sister to the poor. JOAN Yes, Mr. Bhose?
Those people aren't coming into this neighborhood. JOAN They are going to be treated at the dispensary. You have no right to stop them.
Hasari arrives with Max, Anouar, and Meeta. JOAN Go ahead, Aloka, take them inside. The Goonda puts his hand on Aloka.   The policeman in the b.g. keep their distance. JOAN Take your hands off her, you waster! Joan is seized by a sudden fury and grabs the Goonda. He grabs her much harder. Said growls and pushes forward. Several thugs turn, step in to neutralize him. Joan elbows the Goonda and tires to westle free of him. As a reflex he raises his hand. And as he does, it's seized.
Max .   Max slings the Goonda against the side of a truck. GOONDA That was a mistake, Doctor. 
MAX The mistake's yours, putz.  Get these people inside. Aloka starts forward, leading the lepers. She's stopped by a sudden blow from the Goonda's stick across her shoulders, knocking her to the ground, bleeding from the neck. Hasari bolts for his wife, gets caught up in the melee. Max swings   around on the Goonda and for the first time we realize how   strong he is, and that he knows how to box. The Goonda   goes down and violence erupts. Anouar is chopping at   the legs of one of the thugs working on Said. The massive   Said tears free and starts to beat the crap out of the   two thugs holding him. The noise brings everyone out of the square, those lined up at the clinic, the children from the school. Sunil comes flying out of the clinic. A stampede of those waiting outside the dispensary and those normally in the crowded alley ensues. Shanta runs inside for help. Shopkeepers barricade their shop windows. One of the thugs pours gasoline over Anouar and  lights a match. Hasari kneels beside Aloka when he sees   the match ignite the tiny leper. Without thinking,   Hasari hurls himself on top of Anouar, rolling him in  the dirt and against his own body to put out the flames. Joan shouts, demanding the violence stop. She's hit from behind; she decides talk isn't going to do it. She grabs a piece of lumber and starts to fight.
Ashoka astride his motorcycle, behind his dark glasses, with more thugs, these with Molotov cocktails and pick- axes, ready to raze the clinic and school and the surrounding neighborhood. Sunil drags Mehboub inside. People chant: "White Monkeys, go home! White Monkeys, go home! No lepers here! No lepers here!" The thugs cock their iron bars and bricks and Molotov cocktails. Max picks up an iron bar of his own and starts for Ashoka. Suddenly, there's a DETONATION followed by a BLAST of air so fierce, Max is thrown to the ground. A bottle of GASOLINE has EXPLODED just behind him. He's enveloped in smoke.
From all over   the lane, young fighters have come and joined the fray, not   bothering to choose sides but merely enjoying the release.    Hasari lunges for a woman under attack by a boy, arriving   too late to stop the boy from plunging his knife into the   woman's belly. Hasari fights his way to the woman, but   she staggers into the mob. Max knocks down one of the thugs only to have  another hand grasp his shoulder. He turns, fist cocked to   find Poomina, her hands holding her face together. Slowly,   she takes hands away. The sides of her face have been   laid open. Max sweeps her up in his arms, heads for the  clinic. MAX Oh, little girl, little girl... Joan is suddenly beside Ashoka. JOAN We'll pay! All right then, so by all means, protect us! Ashoka raises a hand,   The Goonda blows a whistle, and the fighting stops as   suddenly as it began. The com- batants are breathing   heavily. There is silence but for the groans and cries   of the wounded and grieving. ASHOKA In a world such as ours, everyone needs protection. For the fee we discussed, from this day forward, I can assure you nothing like this will happen again. 
A beat... Saladdin is at Joan's shoulder.     Ashoka points a finger at Hasari. ASHOKA You. I warned you about the company you keep. He REVS his MOTORCYCLE and SCREECHES away, leaving Hasari staring after him in his dust.
Will she... Her face, will it... MAX If she's very careful and doesn't do anything to open the wound, the scarring will be minimal.  Do you understand? You can't... You have to stay here.  You make her stay here.
I'll try. MAX Don't goddamn try, Joan!   Goddamn do it! Poomina peers through her pain at Max, his hands putting her back together. MAX  I hate this place, I hate this place, I hate this place. Max looks at the doorway and he locks eyes with Hasari. Max breaks the contact. Hasari stares at him as we hear the godfather's MUSIC on the RADIO.
Ashoka sits behind a little table, picking absently at his face. The Goonda is slouched near the table, smoking a cigarette and fiddling with a thin switch. (It's dif- ficult for him to show Ashoka the respect his inherited position gives him.) The Goonda has a bruise under one eye from his altercation in the City of Joy yesterday. The air is filled with the MUFFLED SOUNDS OF the STREET. FROM here, we can see the evermore enfeebled godfather in his "throne room," wrapped in a cashmere, listening to the radio. Ashoka looks up, stares impassively at someone. ASHOKA Well.    What have you got to say?
For the first time, we see who Ashoka's speaking to. HASARI I told them that your father provides us with a great deal and that -- Ashoka slams his hand on the register. ASHOKA From this minute, you   are off the list! You will leave    your rickshaw here... where it will   be reserved for a man who deserves   our trust. He stands up.       Hasari is near tears. HASARI Please, Babu, this is as if the ground has opened up. I have to speak to Mr. Ghatak! Hasari starts for the house. The Goonda stops him and, quickly, has Hasari on his knees, his arm twisted pain- fully behind his back. Ashoka jumps at Hasari, grabs his ear. ASHOKA My father's ill! You are speaking to me! 
HASARI I have a family! ASHOKA The decision is made. I have made it. Now get out before I have Mr. Bhose break your legs. He gives Hasari's ear a vicious twist and slams his head against the table.
I just don't... I don't want to... I don't want to care! I don't want to care this much! I just don't want to be invested in you people. In people! I became a goddamn doctor because my goddamn father wanted me to be a goddamn doctor because he was a goddamn doctor! He was the goddamn king of doctors! It's too goddamn hard! Out of breath, out of words, Joan reaches out and takes Max to her, brings him beside her on the cot. Beneath the "Raft of Medusa," she sits with an arm around Max, as if he were her son. JOAN Not everyone's cut out for this. You did the best you could. Better than many. It's all right. 
MAX I didn't do the best I could! I did what I always do! I shot my big mouth off and did a half-assed job. And what I want to do now is I want to go back to America and make money and live a life without entanglements and demands and people hanging on me. JOAN  You know, the fact is from the minute we're born we're shipwrecked. Some see that as a lifetime of drowning, of fear, others only to endure, but to triumph. It's all in the individual spirit, isn't it? MAX Got it: To run, to spectate, to commit.  Running spectator. JOAN Then, by all means, go home, Max, and go with my blessing and my eternal friendship. The candlelight flickers against them as they sit side by side. Neither speaks.
Max comes out, meets Aloka's eyes and looks away.   She's heard the conversation. Hasari, drunk, comes down the slope.   Face to face with Max. HASARI They took away my rickshaw. Aloka's hand flies to her mouth. Hasari peers at Max with his drunken gaze. It's a terrible moment for Max, but... 
MAX So what do you want me to do about it -- get it back for you? Max takes away a step.   Stops. MAX I'm sorry. I'm going home. Because this isn't my fight. I got one person to look after -- me. Hasari stares at Max. On the roof, the children listen. At the tea shop, the late-night talkers listen.
All right, I'm running out,   okay? Because I'm a coward, this   is me, this is what I do, I get in   over my head, I let people down,   I run. HASARI But I trusted you. MAX Well, that was your goddamn mistake! Max walks away, leaving Hasari desolate.   Aloka comes to him. HASARI I don't know how I'm going to pay the rent, how we're going to eat. ALOKA We have what is saved for Amrita's dowry. The thought of using the dowry is yet another awful blow to Hasari's hopes. HASARI The children must leave the school; they'll have to work. And you will not have anything to do with the clinic or those people anymore. Ram joins them. RAM What I earn is yours, too. 
HASARI You can't support all of us. You have a family in your village, too. Hasari touches his friend and goes into:
Hasari seated on the stool, watching his blood leave his body, his face again broken out in perspiration.
Take more. The Attendant shakes his head. HASARI Take more. The Attendant looks at Rafik, who shrugs, nods... and allows the blood to flow on out of Hasari's body.
There, in the entrance to a building, is Gangooly. Seeing a potential victim, he swoops in. GANGOOLY Not well, brother? HASARI Still stealing from refugees? Gangooly looks at Hasari, recognizes him, and gives him an amazing smile. GANGOOLY Well, yes, I remember you, of course -- hello! I am delighted to see you -- yes. And tell me immediately, please -- your little family, your beautiful children, everyone eats, yes. Come, have a cup of tea or a little something stronger, we must celebrate. Gangooly starts to move, to position himself for a get- away. Hasari blocks his egress, unsmiling. GANGOOLY Ah, well, you're angry    at me, yes, I wondered if that was    still on your mind -- I am full    of regret about that, yes, even    a little tormented. What can I     say? I have the spirit of an eagle    trapped in the body of a crow. HASARI I'm touched.
My friend, I am lame and I am poor. Does that mean that I shouldn't survive? Huh? When a man is struggling in a rough sea, he clutches onto what he can or he drowns. You don't look so well. HASARI I lost my rickshaw. Gangooly gives Hasari an appraising look for a moment, then... 
GANGOOLY Ach! I  have an offer. No, listen!  Shiva be my witness, you must at least think about this. Please, I can help... Or my name is not Mr. Gangooly. HASARI Which, fortunately, it is.
Remove the children from the school -- no, why? When you, the father, can make a small sacrifice. Nature has foreseen your plight. For she has given you two eyes, yes, and two kidneys. But. To live, you have need of one only. I have a friend who sold his kidney -- this one -- and now -- believe me, this is the truth -- he lives in a brick home... which he owns. That smile.
A line of skeletons arranged along the walls. Tables stacked with bones: skulls, spines, rib cages, hands and feet. Each skeleton sports a label with a price in U.S. dollars. Crouched among the bones and packing crates are men work- ing. Some smoke, some have masks over their faces. They scrape and clean and decorticate. They skillfully assemble their grisly creations, emotionless but like artists.
GANGOOLY Of course, take some time, think about it. People all over the world, anxiously waiting, willing to pay. 15,000 rupees for a kidney. 25,000 for an eye. Gangooly winks, peers at Hasari with a single eye, and smiles.
Hasari has forbid her to have anything more to do with us. He'd be very angry if he knew she was seeing you off. Max looks at Joan.   Looks out the window.
This is for Poomina.   When I get home... He thrusts the money on Joan and Max offers his hand; she goes through the hand to embrace Max. Then Max and Aloka look at each other. 
ALOKA You did good things. (chokes up, but manages) Thank you for coming to our country. And now Max heads out the door.
It's not like  he's royalty or anything, so  I'm not persuaded we have to wait  for the plane to actually take  off. ALOKA No.   We should go. Yet, they   remain another moment... then get up. Joan puts her   arm around Aloka and they turn to go. The looks on their   faces suggest they've come face to face with something   startling.
EMPTY_LINE
MAX I need Aloka at the clinic.  All right, they, the patients, need her. She's a good nurse.  Come on, man, this is between you and me. Why take the kids out of school, why punish your wife? Hasari holds his anger in; he moves to a mat and lies down, his back to Max. But Max doesn't go. MAX I have a little money, I can get it from the States... HASARI It's not a question of money. We'll survive on our own. That's it. Hasari lies with his back to Max. After some moments of silence, Aloka indicates Max should go. And he does. After another moment... ALOKA Maybe he's right. The clinic is for everyone and if I am needed -- Hasari bolts up, a look of anger on his face we've never seen. HASARI No! I'm your husband and you'll do as I say! Unless, of course, you've become an American wife and then you'll do as you please! HASARI Stay away from them. They are not part of us. They will only be good to you as long as you please them. The children, Aloka are frozen, she very close to tears. Hasari lies back down, again turns his back on them.
Hand me the scissors, please. Helpfully Said hands him the tweezers. MAX Scissors, scissors. He demonstrates. Said fumbles through the instruments, picking up the scissors by the ends.
Not that end -- No, that's fine, thanks, I've got it.
Max Daddah, you are finished?  Follow me. Anouar takes off down the lane and disappears quickly into a little building, Max following.
The pullers whip the tarp off. A battered rickshaw, the springs poking out of the seat, the broken wheels lying in the body, the finish scarred and gouged, one shaft broken. MAX How much?
I'd like to show you something. Just take a minute. A beat as Hasari fixes Max with an empty stare and the family waits to see if Hasari will respond. MAX Go ahead.   Go on.
Piled up in its ruin. MAX I'm good with my hands. You're good with yours. What do you say? Hasari looks at Max, part resentful, part touched. HASARI If I were to go on the street with this machine, I would end up in a gutter with my throat cut. 
MAX Well, it's yours if you want it. You know the license, the cops, all that can be fixed. You'll own this -- it'll have nothing to do with the Godfather. HASARI Doctor Daddah, I'm just a small man. Don't try to tempt me again with big thoughts. Hasari starts to leave.    Max blocks his way. MAX You didn't want me to quit.    Well, I came back. HASARI But can you be trusted? MAX I hope so. Hasari can see the hope and desire in Max's face. After a moment, Max steps aside. Hasari bends his head and makes off. Leaving Max and a small sigh of disappointment.
Max, in an Indian shirt, heading for the square; rather naturally, he brings his hands together in the Indian salutation. He carries several bottles of distilled water, a large value pack of bar soap, and a carton of medical supplies. As he passes, his eyes hook on Aloka's. He lifts a hand in greeting. After a moment, she ducks her head. He turns and continues on coming face to face with Ram, an enormous smile on his face. With him, Hasari. He glances at his wife in the water. MAX  Going to look for work? 
When Hasari doesn't answer... RAM Yes, he is. Ram has a small coughing fit. MAX Are you taking your medicine? RAM Yes, yes, but look at this. He points at the wheel  of his rickshaw; the rim is cracked. Scornfully,   Hasari walks on. Max and Ram glance after him. Max   digs out several rupees. Ram takes them and goes.   Max looks after the two men as they disappear. When   he turns...
...he finds himself face to face with Aloka. Without a word, they start walking side by side toward the square. It's several seconds before she says... ALOKA He's very proud. They walk on in silence -- two friends, separated by a gulf.
Across the way, in the other room, some children are translating Bengali words into English. A boy is writing on the board. It's Manooj. We see that Shambu is in the same class.
You must have had a good doctor. Still no running, jumping, picking up anything heavy. And you stay here. You're going to help Sister Joan and you're going to school. Do you understand? A beat, Poomina nods.    But now a look of abject fear comes over her face. The Goonda stands in the doorway. Max begins singing "Sweet Little Sixteen." The Goodna stares impassively at Max. THE GOONDA Time to collect the rent, Sister.
Of course.     Come with me, please. Joan leaves, followed by The Goonda. Max works care- fully at the fine line of scabbing on Poomina's scar... but then something takes his attention.
I was saying to Manooj that if a man bows down too many times, there will come a day when he will no longer be able to stand upright. The two men look at each other... and then Hasari gets on with his work. MAX I promised Manooj and Shambu I'd take them to the movies. Is it all right? HASARI  If a man makes a promise... Max brins his hands together and starts for the door. Hasari picks up one of the worn seat boards.
We hear the sound of CRACKING NUTS as we MOVE FROM Manooj to three kids we've seen in the neighborhood (two boys Manooj's age and Shoba, who's Shambu's age) and then to Shambu, each kid dipping into the bag in his turn. Finally: Max's (and on the other side of him, Amrita and Poomina.) The bag arrives... empty. MAX  Thanks, guys. Who wants to go for more peanuts? No one. We're talking about rapt attention.   We hear NUTS CRACKING. Max smiles.
I can't decide if I want to be Kumar Kapur or a doctor. MAX Ha ha! You can be both! Manooj Pal, swashbuckling physician! MANOOJ You're so much fun, El Max. I wish my daddy were as much fun as you.
I wish my father loved me like your father loves you. Your dad's a very special man. And now, en garde! As the battle continues, the bright beams of a truck come at them. MAX Time out, men. Off the street till this truck passes. 
The kids move toward the wall of the building they're passing, but the truck seems to turn toward them, seem- ing not to intend to pass, but to hit them. The look on Max's face lets us know he senses something terrible is in the offing here. He shouts for the kids to get out of the way, shoving the kids closest to him into a doorway. He turns to Shambu, who's behind him, calls to him. But in a panic, Shambu doesn't move into the shelter   of the building on his right... but tries to run across   the street. Max leaps for the little boy too late... as    the truck just misses Max and clips Shambu hard, sending   the little boy flying.
MAX I can't do anything here. He's got a compound fracture, he hemorrhaging. We've got to get to a hospital -- now! JOAN You'll never get a taxi at this hour.
MAX Then take me to one! As Max takes flight with the Attendant, Aloka strokes Shambu and Hasari hovers. We CLOSE IN ON Shambu's inanimate face and HOLD a moment.
Max hurtles down the corridor with a young INTERN in tow. Almost a kid, he's been up for days. But he's going to help. INTERN This way, please. Max scoops Shambu up and rushes down the corridor behind the Intern, leaving Hasari and Aloka looking after him. His arm comes around her shoulders.
You're my wife, Aloka, you and my children are all my wealth. But if Max Daddah and Big Sister Joan have need of you, you may go to them. Max comes out of the hospital.   The two Pals stare at him.
We pinned his leg. Couple of months, he'll be better than ever. They want to keep him today. We're a good team. Gimme five. He smiles, holds out a palm for them to slap. They look at the palm, unsure what this means. Yet, each takes Max's hand. The whole community is here, around the tree. 
JOAN I don't think it was an accident. I think they were aiming for Max. So, what we have to ask ourselves is whether his presence is endangering all of us. ANOUAR Even from my low vantage point, I know this: It's the son. He's mad. HASARI Max Daddah is our friend. If they're trying to harm him, then they're trying to harm all of us. We must stand by him as one.
Doctor Daddah, please, very important, only one moment. MAX This is going to cost me every rupee I didn't make today.
A letter from your wife. Ram nods nervously. Max looks at the postmark as he slices it open with a finger. MAX This is postmarked six weeks ago. RAM So? 
MAX So, what have you been doing -- incubating it? RAM I was afraid. Ram waits, his hands twisting each other. MAX 'My dear husband...' RAM Oh that's very hopeful so far!
'Your words brought tears of joy to my arid eyes.' RAM Oh, I'm in love! My words brought tears to her arid eyes!  What does that mean -- arid? Manooj throws his hand up. MANOOJ I know!   Dry. MAX Correct. Her eyes were dry, your letter irrigated them. RAM Aaah!
This is a puka nasgar. What a curse that you can't use it. HASARI I'm going on the streets tomorrow. This gets everyone's attention.    The pullers shake their heads, they're worried for him. MAX Listen. I don't want you to think I'm crazy, but I don't think that truck was an accident.  
MAX CONT'D) I think Ashoka was after me. You can bet he'll be after you too. HASARI I'm going to speak to his father. MAX Can I go with you? I'll go with you. Can I go with you if I shut up? A beat... and Hasari gives him a small nod.
We see Hasari and Max blocking the street with the new rickshaw. The Goonda jumps out of the car, comes threateningly at Hasari. HASARI Babu, please, I beg you, hear my words! As the Goonda is about to land on Hasari we hear a feeble...
Wait. The Goonda backs off. The Godfather waves Hasari and Max close. Hasari brings his gleaming rickshaw to the window of the car, Max at his shoulder. HASARI May I say first, Babu, I wish you long life and good health. GHATAK Acha! They take me now to the scientists. They stick needles in me, take pictures of my insides, study them, and then tell me what I know. 
The Godfather stares at Hasari, flicks his eyes at Max. Waits. HASARI When you gave me work, I swore I would be as your youngest brother. Your son thinks I have been disloyal. He took my rickshaw. With my friend, I have remade this one. I beg you to let me go again onto the streets. I have my family. The old man looks at the rickshaw, at the obvious care that went into its renovation, at this unlikely team of refurbishers. He reaches a shaking  hand out toward a shaft. Hasari brings it close. The   old man rubs the shaft. GHATAK It is very beautiful. HASARI Thank you, Babu. GHATAK If I may say, it has an allure. HASARI An allure, Babu -- thank you. The Godfather stares at Hasari, then at Max. GHATAK The world is chaos. We struggle to build something permanent, then our bodies betray us, our sons betray us.  Yes, you may take your rickshaw out. If you can face up to my son. The Goonda gets back into the car and the car pulls away and we are left with Hasari and Max as moment.
HASARI If a man dies and he's not burned, what do you think becomes of his soul? The manager turns his palms up, continues chewing. Hasari stares through the window at the row of skeletons. HASARI I must provide for my family. GANGOOLY Oh, it's a noble fate. If indeed your wheel ceases to turn, you will help educate somewhere in this great world a fine doctor. Hasari bends to the contract and laboriously signs his name.
HASARI What's going on? CHOMOTKAR The Godfather ill! The son is raising the rent! Ashoka is on his front steps with a loudspeaker before a growing crowd of pullers. He's backed up by the Goonda and a dozen of his thugs. The loudspeaker lifts Ashoka's voice above the anger. ASHOKA Do you know how much it costs to change the spoke in a wheel? Or how much baksheesh I have to pay the police? Impulsively, Hasari moves forward. Cries from pullers: "Who will be the victims of this madness? You?" "Hell no!" "You don't need the six rupees each old crate brings you per day to fill your belly! For us, it means death!" The street is so packed with rickshaw and pullers now that cars can't get through. A chorus of HORNS HONK; drivers scream. 
RAMATULLAH We haven't been breaking our backs between the shafts of our rickshaws in order to weep for you! Hasari continues forward, his eyes on Ashoka. CHOMOTKAR The only thing that matters is the bundle of rupees we take to the munshi each month to feed and to answer the daily needs of our children!
Listn to me! Listen now! Listen to me! (when the pullers quiet) Friends! I ask you to vote for an unlimited strike. Inkalabad zindabad! Long live the revolution! Rickshaw Workers Union zindabad! A strike? No income at all? The slogan is taken up by a small percentage of the assemblage. Fear and doubt on many faces. ASHOKA That's what I thought. All right, get to work! Customers are waiting!
Something detonates in him and he jumps onto the tela- garhi and grabs the microphone from Ashoka. Police arrive in vans. HASARI Friends! The Godfather at least is a caring man! This one, though, the son -- A signal from Ashoka and one of the thugs knocks Hasari down. 
ASHOKA We helped this man! We gave  him a job, a place to live! This  is how he shows his gratitude.  Get on the streets now! Or turn  in your machines! Hasari gets up and tries to speak. HASARI Friends -- don't! If we stand -- He gets hit again. A number of the pullers come forward and a riot starts. The police move in, beat and arrest many of the demonstrators. Ramatullah and Chomotkar try to help Hasari, but they are descended on by cops who hurl them aside and beat Hasari senseless until the: SCREEN GOES BLACK.
Birds flying  below ceiling. The room has a barred cage running all  around its edge; the cage is filled to near overflowing.   Hasari stands before the JUDGE, his face covered with  blood, his body a mass of aches and welts. At the back  of the room, Max and Aloka; elsewhere, Ashoka, the  Goonda, and several of his thugs. HASARI The life of a rickshaw puller is not one a man would choose if he had a choice. Our feet blister and burn up from the boiling asphalt, our noses burn from the fumes of countless motor cars and buses, our backs curve permanently from the loads we carry hour after hour, day after day. But I am proud to be one of the human horses who carry my countryman from place to place and I am thankful for the opportunity to make a living. But I will not keep silent anymore and I will not be cheated and threatened anymore. Life is hard enough. No more. Ramatullah starts to applaud.   Rassoul follows suit. The Judge bangs his gavel. 
JUDGE Silence!  This man will be permitted to use his rickshaw without let or hindrance. And I will make a restraining order against Mr. Ghatak. Cheers from the pullers.   The Judge bangs his gavel. JUDGE I haven't finished these proceedings. For his part in this disturbance, I fine the defendant 50 rupees. HASARI Fifty rupees, Your Honor? That's -- JUDGE Pay at this time or spend seven days in jail! Seven days in jail will cost him far more than fifty rupees. As he reaches into his pocket for his screw of money, a hand suddenly protrudes into the cage through the bars. RAMATULLAH Hasari! And now another hand with several rupees reaches through. RASSOUL Hasari! Now a dozen voices call his name and a  dozen hands reach through the bars with rupees clutched  in their fists and press the money into Hasari's hands.   The Judge, Max and Aloka, and certainly Ashoka watch this  in amazement. The Judge bangs his gavel. Max turns, shoots a little finger gun and winks at Ashoka.
Really -- a boyfriend, Amrita? AMRITA No! Amrita whacks Manooj. 
MANOOJ Yes, she does. His name is Subash Ghosh. His father owns the workshop. HASARI Is there someone you care about? The look in Amrita's eyes tells us indeed there is. Hasari smiles at Amrita and then at Aloka. HASARI Then I must speak to his father and I must complete your dowry. Amrita squeezes close to her mother.   This is serious and joyous. HASARI You will make people sigh at how beautiful you are. And I shall drop tears of joy. RAM At my wedding I became so frightened, my father gave me things to drink to calm me down. I went out to piss and fell asleep under the village tree. When I woke I thought it was the tree I'd married. I still love that tree. The laugh. But Hasari's attention is on his daughter. He reaches a loving hand to her.
He sleeps. Suddenly he's grabbed, his eyes spring open in fear. Hands yanks him out of bed, slam him up against the wall, then hurtle him across the room and into:
Where the tub has been filled. His head is slammed down underwater and he's held there struggling. 
His head is yanked up and through bleary eyes he sees a knife at his throat and the Hewbrew letter chai dangling from the knife - wielder's neck, illuminated by a flashlight. ASHOKA Go home, Doctor. Before he can respond, he's slammed down into the tub of water again and held there until it seems his lungs will explode. Then he's dumped backward, gasping for breath.
He pounds through the puddles, past a sleepy old watchman, and through the gate.
What's happened? MAX Ashoka ordered me to go home. Well, I've come home.
What a joy it is to survey this disaster! We will all make a fortune! 
HASARI The monsoon is the great Durga's gift to the human horse! Hasari glances at Ram, who isn't a part of the joking. HASARI What's the matter? RAM I'm wet and I'm cold. Your daughter is getting married. Time is passing. I want to go home to my wife.
Hasari! It's Hasari's turn.   He can't stay to talk with Ram now. He has to go. MARWARI #4 How much to the market? HASARI Eight rupees. MARWARI #4 What!   I won't pay it! HASARI Who else needs a ride?       I am available at a price!
No!   Take me -- I'll pay, let's go! HASARI The price just went up!       Ten rupees! In advance. The Marwari hesitates only as long as it takes him to dig in his soaking wet pants and to slap the bills into Hasari's hand and climb aboard. Hasari sets out with great difficulty -- and greater determination -- through the floodwaters, flicking his eyes at the Goonda as he goes.
How can I help?
An Anglo couple jockeying for preference. Hasari selects them from a crowd. This is the beginning of RUNNING MONTAGE. A)   He runs AT us from different directions with riders -- pushing, pushing -- the water getting higher, our FOCUS VARIOUSLY IN NORMAL AND SLOW MOTION ON his feet, his tensed muscles; for a moment, we hear only his breathing, the sound of his feet on the pavement, the RAIN AGAINST the CANOPY of the rickshaw. B)   He drags up with an entire, well-to-do family of six, packed into the rickshaw. C)   He stumbles to a stop outside the emergency entrance to the hospital, carrying a mother and her sick child. 
D)   An upper-crust Brahmin dressed in crisp white, an umbrella protecting him against the harsh elements. E)   Four uniformed school children huddled, laughing together under the rickshaw's canopy.
I think Aloka would have a gentler touch than you, Max Daddah. Maybe she should perform this surgery on her own. Aloka ducks her eyes, embarrassed. MAX Last time you told me you were more than two women could manage. ANOUAR Yes, but given a choice between one and none, I will accept the one. Max lifts Anouar off the table and places him on his cart. MAX Okay, you ought to be good for another few days. Send in the next patient.
The first   impulse of each is to touch the other's head. But almost   simultaneously, their hands freeze short of touching.    Several months ago, Max might have tried to kiss her;   now, though, there is friendship and affection. FROM here,   we see a pair of bare feet. We COME WITH Max and Aloka   UP.
Shoba, a deeply concerned look on his face. Slowly his hands come forward, holding his parrot, with a broken wing. He puts the parrot on the examining table.
You're a rickshaw puller, am I correct? HASARI Yes, that's correct. He looks at his brothers, on either side.    They look at him. MR. GHOSH And I a partner in the workshop where your daughter is employed. Were you aware of that? HASARI Yes, yes, I was, my daughter told me, thank you. 
MR. GHOSH Yes, well then, perhaps you can tell me why I would permit my son to marry your daughter. Mr. Ghosh raises his palms.    It's all over as far as he's concerned. UNCLE #1 Just a moment, please. The brothers huddle, whisper just loudly enough for Hasari to hear. UNCLE #1 Are you saying there's no way you'd consider this match? Mr. Ghosh shakes his head, shrugs his palms. UNCLE #1 Perhaps some inducement?    Would that be of any help? MR. GHOSH  What could he possibly offer? UNCLE #1 Probably nothing. But perhaps, in fairness, we should find out. Mr. Ghosh shrugs.    The huddle breaks.   All five men stare at Hasari.
MAX (shouting to the others) My dear friends, it's just occurred to me what inspired me to stay here. Thinking he's about to make some cogent remark about this unified effort... MARGARETA What's that, Doctor Big Brother? MAX The opportunity to acquire waterfront property at a reasonable price. Joan begins to laugh; the others don't get it, query each other as to what's funny about that. JOAN I hate to admit it, junior, but that was actually quite witty. She whacks him on the shoulder with a wet, muddy paw. JOAN Ut-nobody laugh; it's a natural disaster -- we have guests. Everyone turns to...
I'd throw my cape down, but I'm all out of dry capes. He sloshes through the water to them, wiping his muddy hands on his pants. He offers a semi-clean hand to each in turn. MAX It's very nice to see you.   Both of you. RAVI We heard you were still here. Vijay wanted to send some things. 
She indicates the car, which is packed with dry food and such. MAX Shall we unload the car? RAVI Yes, yes, by all means. Max whistles, indicates the car. People come and start unloading it, Ravi showing the way, leaving Max and Manubai alone a moment, Aloka flicking her eyes at the two of them. MANUBAI I'm surprised. I really didn't think you'd stick it out. MAX People grow older; sometimes they even grow up. He smiles a sweet smile at her.    She smiles back at him.
It's too deep! 
A beat. DAY - SOME MINUTES LATER A leper clings to a rope as several of the human horses pull him and others up the mud bank.
Max, Hasari, Rassoul, and Chomotkar up to their necks in water; Hasari and Rassoul have a door on their shoulders; on top of the door, a sick leper woman. Max is lifting one child, then another onto the door. The two pullers make their way slowly toward the mud bank.
We're here!   We're here! Chomotkar holds the door up as Meeta holds the baby out in the direction of Max's voice. Max catches the baby as the house slips down, then grabs Meeta, who clings to him.
Several rickshaws go across but as Max and Anouar start over, suddenly the ground gives way beneath Max's feet. Anouar falls free; someone grabs him; but a blackish stream rushes into Max's mouth and in an instant he's swept beneath the gurgling filth. The density of the filth makes his effort to surface ineffective. It looks for all the world like he's going to drown.
Max has disappeared. Instinctively, Hasari dives into the maelstrom. He, too, disappears. After some moments, Hasari surfaces, spitting the filth out of his mouth. He dives again, comes up somewhere else. Dives a third time. Is down. Is down. Is down. Then suddenly bursts out of the filth, dragging the unconscious form of Max Loeb into the air. More people have gathered. Cries of: OTHERS It's the doctor. Save Doctor Big Brother! Aloka passes a baby to someone and helps Hasari push Max up onto the bank. But now Hasari doesn't know what to do and turns to his wife. Aloka quickly clears Max's mouth and begins to admin- ister mouth-to-mouth resuscitation. She blows, she breathes; she blows, she breathes. People crowd in. Aloka blows, she breathes. It seems, though, that by his stillness and by the looks on people's faces that Max is dead. Yet, more determined still, Aloka goes on; blows, breathes...
Oh, Jesus, the guy went to sleep when he was supposed to be working? I gotta get up -- He tries to get up.   Joan pushes him back down. JOAN Sshh, sshh, sshh! No heroics, junior. Lay back. You're all right.
All right.  Yeah, I am, I'm all right. He is a little delirious. The boys come close, kneel at his side, instinctively reach out to him. MAX Want you guys to know something. About me. Wanted to be the world's greatest heart surgeon, just one better than my dad. Just one. First time I'm the lead surgeon on a case, the main guy, I choke. Froze. The chief made me step aside. My teacher. Had to take over for me. Went into radiology. Photography. Had to have somethin' easy. No pressure. Wasn't too nuts about myself. Quit. Hasari reaches out and touches Max, telling him with a touch that it's all right. He stares up through bleary eyes at all of them with utterly open love. Amrita holds out a small gift to him: It's a banana leaf, holding a small scoop of rice and surrounded by little decorative leaves. MAX You people... You...  I love you guys.
I can offer no more    than I've offered! No more!      All right, I'll add two dhotis,    two vests, and a punjabi. But     that's all. Mr. Ghosh lights up a bidi, looks at his brothers, wrinkles his brows at Hasari. MR. GHOSH That's all?     Did he say that's all? HASARI My daughter's qualities will make up for what is lacking. SUBASH'S FATHER Well, it won't do! I am firm in requiring for my exceptional son the bicycle, 1000 repees... and one ounce of gold. HASARI That's robbery! The child of a rajah might be worth that, and I'm not even sure of that! Impossible! We linger on Shambu a moment.
Then she peers up at...
Manooj, seated between Hasari and Max. SISTER CECILIA Well, indeed    I think Sister Joan is right --    we've got a prospect here. We'll     start you off with a few classes;    if that works out, we'll make a    proper student of you. 
Hasari can't believe his ears.   Manooj sits frozen.   Max grins.
Hey, come on, don't do this. VOICE Well, what's the problem here? They turn, Ashoka.   Behind him, the Goonda. ASHOKA You've become very brave of late, haven't you? MAX Don't do this. ASHOKA Oh, I do what I please. You see, my father's dead, I'm in charge now. So you will get off my streets, you will leave my country, and that clinic and school will close. 
MAX Why? ASHOKA My father was weak. He let you and your European friend give these little people ideas. It's over. MAX You can't do this! He takes no more than a step at Ashoka, a hand coming up, when he's hit hard from behind. Goes to his knees.
Jesus Christ. His hand comes away from the back of his head with blood. He tries to rise and is hit again. HASARI  Get back! Stay back! ASHOKA No, no, come forward.   Come. Ashoka glides toward the petrified Amrita. The Goonda remains unmoving, watchful. Ashoka puts out his hand with its rings, and strokes Amrita's cheek. ASHOKA What a little woman already, hey? HASARI Please, don't touch her, Babu. ASHOKA What did you say? HASARI I said, Please, don't touch her. Hasari glances over his shoulder, his eyes bouncing off the Goonda's impassive face. Now, the knife comes out of Ashoka's pocket, snaps open, glints in the light. ASHOKA She's going to give someone a lot of enjoyment. Yes. 
There's a moment of unbearable tension as everyone, in- cluding the Goonda, realizes this man is out of control. ASHOKA  He said 'please' didn't he? 'Please, don't touch her?' The Goonda stares at Ashoka... And now Ashoka reaches out and we FOLLOW CLOSE on his hand as it moves ever so slowly through space to settle on Amrita's breast. And now Hasari explodes. He hits Ashoka. A hard punch to the chest. Ashoka stumbles and falls to one knee.
Bhose, help me! Hasari unloads a punch into Ashoka's face; Ashoka's nose pours blood; he starts to whimper. He clutches Hasari hard to him. Holds him. Hasari struggles, slams his palm into Ashoka's chin, sending Ashoka to the ground, sending the knife skidding across the ground. Hasari grabs the knife, straddles Ashoka, about to kill. But he can't do it. HASARI Life is hard enough.     No more. Leave us alone. Hasari backs off, leans against a wall, stares down at Ashoka, his hands in tight against his body. Manooj and Shambu stare at their father in awe. Shambu sees something on the ground where the first blow was delivered to Ashoka's chest. Everyone has moved slightly to one side. He bends and closes his fist around something. The Goonda steps between Ashoka and Max and Hasari. GOONDA You won't be bothered again. A look from the Goonda and the Thugs vanish, leaving Ashoka cowering in a doorway on his knees. 
Shutters start to open, people begin   to appear again in doorways and windows. Fearing for his life, Ashoka suddenly   bolts. Max is fixed on Hasari. He lets up a    scream of exulta- tion, his hand going out for a "five"   from Hasari. The kids charge toward Hasari. Then everyone freezes. Hasari lists to his right side and blood starts to pour from the knife wound in his abdomen under his pressing arm.
Why don't you go on home.   I'll stay with him. Sunil nods. Max grips Sunil's hand strongly. Sunil goes down the steps. Max moves to Hasari's bedside. He watches Hasari breathing. He looks up at "The Raft of the Medusa."
Beneath "The Raft of the Medusa," Hasari Pal speaks to his family and Max, Aloka sitting close to the bed, the Children on the bed beside their father, and Max standing close. 
HASARI A man's journey to the end of his obligations is a very long road. And you have to remember that you can never give up. We pray that life will bless us, that we will be kings, with possessions and money that we can rule over all around us. But it's a mist; the only thing that makes it possible to endure life is our love, one for the other. A beat, the family and Max tightly bound together.   And now we hear the dim sounds of RICKSHAW BELLS.
I was dreaming the sound of rickshaw bells, and now I hear them. Max opens the windows.   Manooj helps his father sit up.
Are they here for me? Unquestionably, they are.
A city so big. When we arrived, we didn't have a place to live, a friend. He smiles.
The many hands with their ringing bells.
SHAMBU  Is my father going to die? Max makes the same sound he made in the ashram at the beginning of the movie, though this sound of dismissal different. MAX Get serious.
Get serious! I've agreed to the bicycle, I've agreed to the 1000 rupees! I can go no further. I have nothing more to give!
RAM But it means I should go home to my wife. MAX I thought that's why we've been writing all these letters. RAM Yes, of course, I love her from here, yes; but, what if I go home and find I don't love her from there. Shambu takes him by the hand and tugs him quickly to the edge of the tea shop. The little boy indicates Max should bend close. Max leans down. SHAMBU Daddy needs gold, right? Max nods.    And Shambu brings his fist up from under the table.
SHAMBU Do you think this is pretend gold or real?
Amrita is dressed in the beautiful sari her father bought her. Father and daughter are alone. He hands her the flower and adjusts her veil tenderly. 
HASARI You never did belong to me. You were only lent to me by God until you marry and continue the wheel of life. Amrita stares at her loving father and slowly her arms come up around his neck, the flower against his curved back. Tears fill Hasari's eyes, but a smile graces his lips.
I would be pleased if you would stand with me in the place of honor to the right of my daughter.
A flame. The    shyness of bride and groom as the ceremony proceeds with   the winding of the red thread. Hasari looks on with   unspeakable pride, Max beside him. We see the faces of   all our family again: Aloka, Manooj and Shambu, Joan,   Poomina, Surya, Selima, Aristotle John, etc.
Turning. As Amrita and Subash, joined by the thread, circle the flame... as we PULL BACK AND UP. Now we see the clinic and school and the surrounding area, the alleys full of people and activity. As we continue to PULL BACK, we see the entirety of the City of Joy and then beyond -- Calcutta, its teeming streets -- life con- tinuing as the sun sets against an infinite sky and we ROLL END CREDITS.
