Now we end the debate about tactics... and begin to plan for victory.
The Dog approaches a doorway; stops to watch from the shadows.
In the dim bedchamber, the SILHOUETTE of QUEEN DANAE as a LADY-IN-WAITING removes her gown, revealing the Queen's perfect body as she slips into bed. The Lady-in-Waiting leaves. The Dog's eyes. He moves forward.
TRACKING WITH the Dog's legs as they MORPH INTO HUMAN LEGS. The CAMERA RISES BEHIND a towering male figure, who roughly pulls a curtain aside. In the bed, the Queen is startled, then pleased.
My King! Has the strategy been set so quickly?
The looming figure looks exactly like King Acrisius, including the distinctive scar. He regards her hungrily.
Come to your Queen, my King.
On the wall above is the huge shadow of a four-legged creature -- and now it appears: The Dog stops at the top of the stairs and regards the men without fear -- its eyes blaze with a God's power. Even Acrisius, who fears nothing, steps back. The others raise their weapons. The Dog comes down the steps, eyes upon them, and passes close by. No one dare move. The Dog disappears into the shadows below.
Queen Danae, PREGNANT NOW, and weeping. Her arms are bound. A ROYAL ENTOURAGE is gathered. The women weep, the men agonize. Palace Guards lift the Queen into a chest and chain it closed. On the King's signal, the Guards carry the chest to the edge and drop it into the rough sea. We HEAR a SCREAM from within. Some members of the Royal Entourage look with scorn at their King, outraged by this double murder. Acrisius registers their disapproving looks and angrily turns to leave the promontory. WE SEE in his face what the others do not -- shame and doubt. IN THE WATER BELOW, the chest rights itself and rides out on the tide.
You are mistaken, my King. None would risk your anger --
 It is Zeus who warps my kinadom!... Zeus the ungodly, Zeus the defiler... This talk sobers the Steward instantly; he looks about fearlessly.
Please, speak not these things                           -- Acrisius spins on him, out of control --
He cuckolds me in my castle, rapes my precious Queen! This is a low, conniving God... But I have bested him on this day and humbled the great Prime.
I beg you, Your Highness -- Acrisius pulls a dagger and holds it to the Steward's throat.
Tell me what the Priests say!
 Tiamat... Tiamat, Queen of the Deep.
Yes, Tiamat! And today I have honored her. The King whirls and staggers up the crest of the dune.
I've taken Zeus' whore and the bastard she grows in her belly and thrown them to Tiamat in her rough sea! (toward the moonlit
I honor Zeus' rival with all that was dear to me --  -- and commit double murder in her honor... About to go to pieces, rage seizes him again --
so that Zeus will know I despise and disdain him and spit on his foul name! The Steward shrinks from this blasphemy, eyes darting in fear. ON THE CREST the King is silhouetted in the moonlight, arms raised defiantly toward the heavens, when suddenly -- -- his figure is seized by some violent force, shaking his being. A HORRIBLE SOUND and THE KING'S BODY GROWS LARGER AS IT DISTORTS IN
And thus, KING ACRISIUS BECOMES... KALIBOS! The Steward SEES what we now cannot. An INHUMAN ROAR and the shadow of this new being falls upon the Steward. He SCREAMS, but it's too late -- the huge CREATURE grabs him by the neck and LIFTS HIM OUT OF FRAME. From the empty, moonlit dunes, we...
-- in an instant, the apparition blows past them -- wind and dust whip at them. In awe and fear --
Thoth the Quick... (sensing the boy's
Messenger of the Gods. Bound for Olympos. The rushing Black Form crosses a field, leaving a violent wave in the long grass and suddenly --
My lord.
(rumbles, like
We have debated, we have voted, and it is decided. We offer the Humans peace. Thoth, you will take them the terms of a treaty --
We don't negotiate with them! We dictate to them. Their place is to beg. They have forgotten their role and have denied us the sustenance of their prayers.
Our mercy will give them reason to be grateful. They will bow down and whisper our names with more passion than before.
They will bow down when we snap their backs! Mercy? We are Gods! Some of us remember that and are not afraid -- Zeus has had enough: furious ARCS OF LIGHTNING jump to the walls, the eagle beats its wings in rage.
Silence! Or learn what it is to be afraid! The debate is over, the votes cast... Zeus points to a golden tray; it bears TEN chips of alabaster versus TWO shards of obsidian.
We guarantee an armistice, we shield the bridegroom and the Joppan royal family. (turning again on
And we do not interfere in their actions. We leave them undisturbed unless-invoked by name to enter their affairs.
And if they refuse our terms?
They have suffered terrible losses. They will not pass up a chance for peace.
This is your rightful place to take.
Soon enough, Set. Zeus has grown weaker than I knew. Set gestures at the white chips on the tray as he picks up the two black shards representing their votes. He hands one to Tiamat.
So have they all. They no longer see clearly.
We will manage these thick-witted Humans to our own ends.  Yes, we will be bound by great Zeus' rules... until their fragile membranes tear. We dare not interfere with these insects...
but we may be invited to intervene. Tiamat flicks the obsidian into the reflecting pool -- the whole pool darkens and choppy waves crash over the sides... a tiny tempest.
The clouds stop dead. The crowd stops. TIME STOPS. A PRESENCE WE DO NOT SEE moves to the BASILICA, the royal residence and assembly hall.
Flitting nearby is his Queen -- CASSIOPEIA, a fading beauty, fiercely intelligent, but not wise; she can be impulsive and vain. AMOUN stands calmly by -- he is special advisor            (or Magi Strategos) to the King and will be central to our story.
The emissary approaches. Take your time in your responses, debate nothing...
None like this.
I'm not cowed. If these arrogant Gods are so powerful, why are they the ones seeking a truce?
In my palace, I decide how the discourse proceeds, not some messenger sent on errands by Zeus.
You are correct, Your Highness, I do the bidding of Zeus... To their astonishment, the emissary is already in the Throne Room, behind them. Startled, they turn to see      -- Thoth the Quick, Messenger of the Gods, float forward.
... as do all Gods... and all men. Thoth removes his hood, revealing his crystal skull.
 King Kepheus, as humble messenger of Zeus, I've come to talk of peace.
I am a reasonable man. Everyone wishes for the conflict to cease.
Zeus above all. He has so long desired the tragedy end, he made a plan that began twenty-five years ago.
Twenty-five years! How is that possible? Amoun winces at her tone. Thoth sends a scary glance her way. Icy --
Beauteous Queen, let Thoth limn for you the forethought and wisdom of Zeus, God of Gods.
A treaty marriage?
You have a daughter of age.
Surely Zeus does not ask a mortal father to give his daughter to a God.
No. Such a union would be unclean. Years ago Zeus created a scion of mixed blood. Half-man, half-God. Bred for just this union. That is how important Zeus considers this truce.
Is my only daughter to marry a demigod, not of this earth?
A prince, of both Olympian and Human royalty. A chosen one.
Zeus has given his son to the cause of peace.
I have heard of no such demigod.
Majesty, if I may -- the young man does exist. He lives in a small fishing village on the isle of Seriphos. Kepheus turns, surprised at Amoun's foreknowledge.
You knew about this and said nothing?
My Queen, I serve only the great order of things. I was the boy's tutor years ago.
How haughty this boy must be, who knows he is half-God.
He knows nothing and believes himself an ordinary man. He has never left his village. He can be overconfident, but it is from inexperience, not arrogance. Repheus and Cassiopeia exchange wary looks. Sharply
What assurance do we have that our daughter will be safe?
With our daughter's future at stake, we do not bestow trust easily.
Amoun reacts, but it is too late -- Thoth has been
Suddenly, the WALLS GROAN, compressing with an AWFUL SHUDDER. The room TILTS. Kepheus and the Queen grab for a solid handhold, frightened. The golden marbles on a tabletop roll from their pits and pile up in defiance of gravity. Wine goblets tilt toward Thoth.
(urgently, to the
Your Majesty...
Where is the lucky young suitor?
PERSEUS,                                                    25, wiry, bronzed from the sun, a stubbled jaw, a knife in his teeth. He swims with the power and grace of a porpoise -- beyond the ability of any normal man.
Perseus swims INTO VIEW and uses his knife to cut the net near the shark's snout. The shark tries to swim through the hole, but instead drags the net upwards. Perseus hangs on. One more slice and the shark zooms out of the net, bumping the young hero as it swims away. Perseus pulls Anteros toward the surface.
Your grieving does Anteros no good. It comforts only you.
It's my fault he's gone.
He was careless with the net. Perseus gives him a hard look.
So it's his fault. Not mine, not fate, not the Gods?
 Now my history is I let my friend die in my arms. I made it back, why couldn't he?
What you do, no other man can do. Have you not noticed?
To what purpose? I failed him.
You always say that my abilities are greater than other men's. But they were not enough to save him.
You are still a man, confined by man's limits. You are just as likely to fail as succeed.
How is that greater than other men?
Ordinary men fail most of the time. The trawler rounds a point on the island. Perseus spies a beautiful girl on the cliff. A closer
A huntress; a pagan leather bandeau hugs her lithe figure. Flowers in her golden hair -- wilted dahlias. Young yet ancient. THE WILTING GIRL.
She watches Perseus intently as the boat passes. He turns to see if Spyros or his friends have seen her, but no one has. When he looks back, she's gone.
Mother wants you to come in for supper. (as he is
Perseus, why are you so sad? This breaks his spell. He looks at Tekla warmly, gets up and puts a reassuring arm around her shoulders as they head inside.
I still don't understand.
Your mother can explain. She believes everything has an explanation, even if we have to make it up.
It's one of the reasons I love you, Marmara.
Tell me! Why is there war between Man and the Gods? Marmara and Tekla continue to bring out the food.
At the beginning of time, when Man was young, he prayed to the Gods. His belief in the Gods gave his life meaning. It was a good thing.
If you consider superstition, fear and darkness good things...
What things?
Learning, science... love.
But what of the Gods, who had protected and guided us so long? They must breathe our prayers to survive. They hunger for
-- as lions hunger for blood.
Spyros!
The Gods were desperate to claim our awe again.
Desperate... the Gods?
Yes, even the Gods. If they could not earn our faith with love, they would demand it with fear. Whatever was necessary to ensure              L their continued existence.
Marmara and the wide-eyed Tekla sit down.
And that is how war broke out between Man and Gods. (turning to serve
Now eat your dinner, which the Gods -- and your father -- have provided.
You... I saw you watching our boat at the cliff.
It was not the boat I was watching.
Can I be of service?
Yes, of service. I need you to come with me on a journey. Perseus gives her a look.
Right now?  It wouldn't take much persuading to get me to leave this village, but tonight is impossible. My family can't wake and find me gone. Where do you want me to go?
It's not what I want. I am in the service of others.
Perseus can't get over her beauty, the dulcet sound of her voice. Even so --
Come back in the morning and we can talk about it.
I'm sorry.
For what? Perseus doesn't notice the black widow spider scurry between her feet. Then a centipede, a scorpion. Then a swarm, racing toward him. He feels the first spider and looks down. The creatures climb his legs, biting. Weakening from the venom, he stumbles back into the table, loses his balance and falls.
We SEE that she is also watching Perseus, who is sleeping in a makeshift bed in the bottom of the boat. Her eyes slowly travel over his bronzed, muscled frame. There are bite marks on his legs and arms, but they seem to be healing as we look at them. Perseus stirs and wakes, squinting up at the Wilting Girl.
How long have I been out?
This time? Only a few hours. The time before, almost a day. How was your rest?
I had a dream. I fell into a dark pit. I thought I would never stop falling. But a beam of light formed a soft net, caught me and tossed me back. TheWilting Girl watches him.
When I came back up to the world, a beautiful woman appeared and spoke to me. But as she spoke she would sometimes disappear into the whiteness with a strange sound.
The Wilting Girl listens to his story.
When I could hear her, she spoke nonsense. She said that my father was a God and my mother a -- At that moment the blinding-white sail swings between them as she tacks, obscuring his view of her for a moment. The wind makes a LOUD SNAPPING SOUND in the cloth. Then she reappears, the sail on her other side.
as he realizes she is his vision.
You are special, Perseus. Your birth was ordained for this very purpose.
I am an ordinary man.
Do you ever lie awake during a storm and listen to the thunder?
And it sounds as though it matches the beating of your heart? He doesn't have to answer; it's written on his face.
How long can you hold your breath? Longer than the others? Are there times when you know you should feel pain, but you don't?
None of that means anything.
Look at your arms, Perseus. Perseus watches the bites on his arm heal visibly.
A good trick. You must be the demigod, not me.
A Chthonian?
An Earth Goddess.
The Gods have a caste system just as men do. The Olympians are our nobility -- few but cosmic. The Chthonians are the peasants. Our abode is this earth, and we exist as long as men worship us.
And when none worship you? Sadness flickers through her extraordinary eyes.
And demigods, where do they stand in your hierarchy?
Nowhere. Sorry.
If demigods rank so low, why do you need me?
For a marriage.
What!
Zeus, God of Gods, has proposed a treaty to end the war. At the center is the marriage of a mortal with a demigod.
Who, me?
Zeus himself has chosen you. A demigod may be less than a God, but he's more than a Man. One foot in Humanity, the other in Divinity. Your marriage will be a symbol of accord between our races.
Forget it.
Such a union could save millions of souls. Perseus is struck by that. He looks off across the sea.
And just who exactly am I supposed to marry?
The BOY is AGENOR, a kitchen helper -- ripped and sexy. It's hard to tell who's the aggressor here. Gasping, Andromeda holds him at bay --
Do you think you can manhandle a Princess this way?  As though she was hungry and needy as you, a mere servant? Another steamy kiss. In between liplocks, she whispers
very mistaken... a woman of my station... never be attracted... They go at it again.
She's PESHET, handmaid to Princessa Andromeda. She has a feline quality -- eyes, grace, agility. She raps on the scullery door.
Princess... Princess!
 The Princess is not here.
The Queen approaches!
I don't care!
Andromeda! You'll care enough if you're caught! Remember last time... From inside we HEAR complaining, more kissing and moaning.
Peshet! Startled, Peshet spins to see the Queen approach.
Where is the Princess?
Is she not in her chambers, ma'am?
She is not. You are expected to know her -- A SQUEAL and WHISPERING from the closet stops Cassiopeia. She throws a perturbed glance at the door. Peshet looks guilty.
Princess, it's the King as well!
To please you, I would submit to such a marriage... except I would rather die; Please let me know you're serious about this perverse plan so I can make arrangements to kill myself.
She stomps out. Their gaze follows until she's gone.
It will take more than half-a-God to handle her.
She'll be a great ruler one day.
You're looking in the wrong direction.
I don't think so.
Perhaps you should give some thought to your immediate future.
 That's what I'm doing.
Maybe you should take another look... She indicates the view behind him. Perseus turns, jaw dropping.
A breathtaking view of Joppa -- a city in two parts. At sea level, tangled hovels, boats, and docks crowd the working-class area -- the LOWER WHARF. Above, twisting stone stairs climb the cliffs to the ACROPOLIS with its gleaming villas, temples, statues, and colonnaded towers, hugging the precipice.
The Wilting Girl leads Perseus through the city. He's never seen anything like it. He rubbernecks, awestruck as he passes a BLACKSMITH who takes a dragon skin from the coals and fashions armor by pounding the white-hot scales over a mold.
All the goods, armies, and culture of Man's dominion flow through this port. He who reigns in Joppa, rules the world. Amidst the exotic chaos, Perseus is struck by   the homeless refugees on the street and the ruins   of once- proud buildings.
The war has badly scarred this place.
It is the war you have the power to end. He throws her an angry look, grim.
Don't joke about such things. I'd be useless before such a huge responsibility.
Perhaps you would be...
'Before the first dawn, the eyes of the Deep watched the earth.'  Bow down to the Goddess of Chaos or know despair, for Tiamat will rule the heavens and the earth. Perseus is mystified by this talk. He turns to Vidalia for explanation, but she seems disturbed by the preacher   L and does not return Perseus' gaze.
Perseus and Vidalia round a corner and see the regal Basilica. WORKMEN hang banners and decorations, preparing for a big event.
What are they celebrating?
You.
. before I am a king or a peacemaker, I am a father. Do you know what that means?
I'm not sure, Your Highness. I did not know my father.
(to Cassiopeia,
What is she?
-- and all so she could be thrust into a momentous conflict... of which she knows nothing at all.
She's not the only one, sir. I don't know much about the events for which I've been drafted.
(disarmed, but tough
I take no comfort in that, young man. In fact, I find little to take comfort in here. You are a stranger from a distant place, and I am asked to entrust the welfare of my daughter to you.
If you are not kind and patient with her, if any harm of any kind should come her way, I will have your head on a stake. Kepheus thinks he sees a smirk on Perseus' face. He puts his hand on the hilt of his sword.
Is this amusing to you?
Not even a little, my lord. It's just that I myself was waylaid -- snatched also, as you say, from my happy springtime... Kepheus studies him to see if he's making jest of him.
I've been told I'm to play a part in events which serve a higher purpose... of which I'm not at all convinced.
Does a truce in the war between Men and Gods not strike you as a higher purpose?
With all respect, I have never seen a God. On my island, they're no more than a story.
You will learn there is more to this universe than is found on your island.
I can only proceed based on what I have experienced, not on a faith I do not possess.
Where does a young person get such ideas?
Perhaps from my adopted father, sir. I admire him greatly, and he believes in little he cannot hold in his hand.
Is he a scholar?
No, Your Highness, a fisherman.
I know this mentor who so influences young Perseus. Amoun has silently entered the chamber. Perseus reacts in amazement.
Master Amoun! He hurries over to the older man, who embraces him warmly.
Porpoise... You've grown tall and strong since my departure. Perseus laughs at his old nickname and holds Amoun at arm's length.
What are you doing here?
I am honored to serve the King as an advisor. His Magi Strategos.
From my village tutor to Magi Strategos... What a path! The King's patience is exhausted. To Cassiopeia
Where is Andromeda? At the least, the two should meet before tomorrow's ceremony...
The wedding comes later. Tomorrow we will have the public announcement.
And a celebration of the treaty. A Page enters and whispers in Kepheus' ear. Kepheus is irritated.
It seems our Andromeda has wandered away. Cassiopeia reacts, upset.
Perhaps the thought of her new life has made her frantic to enjoy the vestiges of her old one.
Perseus, if you're to take the wild girl for a wife, this is a good time to start your training. Go into the city and retrieve her.
How will I know her?
She is unmistakable.
I'm a stranger here. Any hints?
Follow the lights and the sound of profane music.
She's gone only a few steps, when just ahead of her, thick vines shoot out and form a dense barrier. She takes a breath and dives into the surging growth. She almost makes it through, but at the last moment, vines wrap her arms and legs, holding her prisoner. She gives up, with a sigh. We HEAR the LAUGHTER of a God.
Zeus? Zeus' rumbling voice is held low, talking to her in an intimate way -- a beautiful sound.
Why do we have to play these games, my lovely girl? You know you cannot leave. The vines retract, freeing her. She rubs where they gripped her.
My part is finished.
It has just begun. Have you forgotten your place in this?
As I've lost my believers, the future has become dimmer to me.
I still believe in you. Close your eyes and see your tomorrow. She closes her eyes and takes a deep breath. A single tear runs along her cheek. She opens her eyes.
It's too painful. I can't involve myself.
You you already involved. Such is fate. We cannot hide from the .trials of our future... no matter how dark the alleyway. She looks back at the Basilica with profound sadness.
Andromeda is dancing at the center of attention, her sheer gown enhancing her sensuality. The MUSIC ends. Andromeda laughs and tosses her curly mane. A HANDSOME YOUNG NOBLEMAN embraces her. She gives him a deep kiss, causing a sensation, then breaks away into the crush.
Very beautiful. Andromeda spins, petulant.
Will you please give me some
The sight of the handsome stranger gives her pause.
What did you say?
I said, 'Very beautiful.'
Do you think just anyone can make intimate judgements on the royal family?
I meant the sunset. She regards Perseus over her glistening bare shoulder.
Do you always start a seduction with an insult? Perseus moves to the rail, very close to her, and looks at the sea.
I know nothing of seduction. I'm a simple fisherman. My home is across that water.
What brings you here?
To Joppa? I was kidnapped.
I mean here, tonight. He looks over at her a long moment.
I've come to see my future wife. Startled, Andromeda suddenly realizes who he is. A mad mix of emotions crosses her face.
It's not personal. You're not a bad-looking boy.  I'm too young. I don't want to be married.
Me either.
Then why are you doing it?
No one asked me. And now that I've met you, I don't know if I can go through with it.  It's not personal. Seeing you makes it real. I think a man should make his own decisions. I won't be the pawn of a King or a God. She looks at him with new interest.
Since we agree, it's settled. No marriage.
I don't think it's going to be that simple. Ignoring that, she takes his arm, moving even closer.
That doesn't mean we can't be friends. Get to know each other. I want to show you something. She leads him into a tall, hedged garden maze.
I'm already lost.
I'll take care of you. They take two more jogs and find themselves in an odd sylvan chamber. Soft plants have been stacked in what could be mistaken for a bed.
This is my special place. No one can see or hear or even find us now.
(looks around the
I don't suppose I could escape without your aid.
Do you want to? When he turns back to her, she melts into his arms and gives him a long deep kiss. He's surprised, but handles it well. When she tries to continue, he slows things down, holding her at bay.
Do you not find me attractive?
One of the most beautiful women I've ever seen.
Of course, you haven't been much in the world.
True. Maybe a lot of girls look like you.
Don't you want to make love to your almost-wife? Maybe we'll find we're not compatible.
What if we find we're very compat-- She stops him with another kiss. He starts to surrender to his desire, but again, he stops. Her voice is a low
Is it true you're a demigod?
 It seems what everyone wants to believe. Her face is inches from his. She looks into his eyes.
I don't see it.  But let's find out for sure... She kisses him yet again, pulling him toward the bed of foliage. He can no longer resist. Together they fall into the softness. He kisses her passionately as their bodies begin to move together. She breaks the kiss for only a moment, her voice husky --
I think I'm becoming a believer... They start to make love.
Tiamat, I know this place, but I know not why.
In this chamber Zeus defiled the Queen Danae and begat the anointed demigod, who would facilitate this foul truce.
Ah, the former palace of the cursed Acrisius.
The King who stood against Zeus and was crushed for it, though he was not the offender. But this is not his former home...
still he dwells in rancid hate, having killed his generals and sucked their bones. We cannot break the rules of Zeus and interfere with the humans. But this poor creature can do our work and visit the would-be groom.
What form of monster do you visit upon Perseus? There is an awful SOUND from the darkness of an archway.
What form, dear Set? Why this... In the half-light appears the huge, deformed changeling:
 My Servant, your lonely solitude now ends... It's time to leave.
You're late.
I didn't know how to get this outfit on.
I want to thank you for seeing me home. I was so flushed with wine I can't recall much of the evening. Perseus half smiles and turns to the crowd.
Me either.
At what point do you plan to tell them we're not getting married?
Tell who?
 Them...
The Queen will speak! The room QUIETS as Cassiopeia moves front-and-center of the dais with a cup of wine, not her first.
I won't be long-winded. You all know I am a modest person, no matter my rank. Some of the crowd react silently. Andromeda watches her mother with trepidation, but not as much as Kepheus, watching from his throne.
not the celebration of the happiness of two parents, or of our good people. Mild confusion in the hall, concern from the Royal Entourage.
This union represents new hope for a lasting peace! That is the only cause for celebration. The crowd reacts with exclamations and applause. Amoun wills her to stop. Cassiopeia takes another drink, looks over at the Princess.
To my beautiful daughter... more beautiful than all the women of Joppa. More beautiful than the Gardens of Nineveh... Kepheus is about to pull her away. She throws him a spiteful glance.
More beautiful than the turquoise ocean and its sublime Goddess of the Deep... Tiamat herself! My daughter is a beauty even a Goddess must envy. Amoun reacts in dismay. A distressed MURMUR roils the crowd. Andromeda goes to her mother.
I've gone on too long -- She stops with a look of sudden dread. The Great Hall DARKENS. The torch flames TURN BLACK. The temperature drops. The statues lining the hall shut their eyes and the doors burst open. TIAMAT, QUEEN OF THE DEEP, floats forward, parting the terrified celebrants. Perseus sees his first Olympian. Tiamat arrives at the dais. Cassiopeia drops to her knees.
You have blasphemed powers beyond understanding... You, a stupid braying goat before the unfathomable galaxies. You dare put this frivolous, scrawny slut...
above the infinite Goddess of the Deep!
Tiamat tears off her cloak and STANDS NAKED. Her body, made from the elements of the sea, is magnificent -- sexy and terrifying. Fantasos, the priest who proselytizes for Tiamat in the streets, is in the throng. His reaction is a mix of religious ecstasy and outright lust. The celebrants shield their eyes, but Cassiopeia can't. She crumples, aging before our eyes. Every word shakes her frame --
Look upon the sublime and know your error. You'll not blink. Tell me now, mortal, how bright your preening urchin shines? No one dare look long at the Goddess. No one but Perseus. Tiamat notices Perseus... and his boldness.
People of Joppa, hear me. For the sacrilege of this arrogant creature, I will loose Leviathan upon you. The people react in terror. Cassiopeia starts to faint, but Tiamat snaps her back to consciousness                  --
I'm not finished. Hold your gaze.  For thirty days, Joppa shall suffer the scorn of Leviathan. And on the final day, you will be wiped from the earth.  Unless... Instant silence.
unless you sacrifice that body so impertinently compared to this
-- your beloved, worthless Princessa. Andromeda GASPS. Shock everywhere.
This is my will, Joppa. Desolation or sacrifice. Choose your penance. You can thank your...  . sickly, aged Queen. Clouds of black sea ink swirl and swallow Tiamat, then implode. Tiamat is gone. Cassiopeia, palsied and withered, collapses. Kepheus and Royal Aides rush to her.
A lone FISHERMAN unloads nets from his boat. Suddenly, the water under his boat is sucked out to sea. A deep RUMBLE shakes the ground. The fisherman is mesmerized as the horizon CLIMBS higher and higher, a WALL OF WATER. In seconds, the colossal wave breaks and falls, obliterating the boat, the docks and the low-lying shanties.
Leviathan awakes...
. Leviathan -- First dweller of the deep. Hewn by Tiamat from the dark blood of the earth...
A council of VICEROYS and MINISTERS gathered before Kepheus, who seems lost in thought, head down. Perseus stands off to the side.
. All monsters of the sea are but shadows of Leviathan the Kraken -- colossal, rapacious, and nigh indestructible. The men turn to Kepheus; when he raises his face, he looks exhausted.
My Queen lies near death. Am I now to choose between the survival of our state... and the life of Andromeda, my only child? Amoun watches Perseus, at the fringe of the group, expectantly. But Perseus looks only perplexed, an observer.
The citizens of Joppa are fighting for their lives. Would you have me gamble the city to save one girl? Again, Amoun looks to Perseus.
Impossible.
No... We need only the will to do it.
You spoke the words -- the monster is indestructible!
Perseus! You had something you wanted to say to the King? All eyes turn to Perseus, who shrinks before them, self- conscious.
What? No, Master Amoun. I'm listening.
You're 'listening'? We're talking about the precious life of your betrothed. Perseus meets his gaze, confused.
I'm a newcomer here. I would not presume to tell these men --
Exactly! A newcomer with a fresh perspective. Share your thoughts with the King, your future father- in-law. The ministers are puzzled by Amoun's persistence. Perseus, uncertainly --
I know that I am young and have not seen much of the world, but it seems to me that nothing is indestructible. The Ministers react to the young man's arrogance.
I am far from young and have seen much of the world... and I agree with my son. Everyone turns to the new arrival: Perseus' adoptive father, Spyros. Perseus goes to embrace him.
Father, how did you find me?
I thought this boy's father was a God. How does a stranger walk unmolested into the Throne Room of the King?
I sent for him, Lord. This good man raised Perseus from infancy. He will help him now.
Help him with what?
With whatever is needed... Perseus approaches the King. Surprising himself --
He will help me destroy Leviathan. Spyros does a double-take, then swallows: "Yeah, okay, sure."
But how? Perseus has no idea.
Majesty, we can seek the counsel of the Norn Sisters of Skolothia. They know the hidden ways of the Gods. If Leviathan can be slain, they'll know how to do it.
We have thirty days to find its weakness.
 We'll leave tonight.
With what army? I dare not weaken our forces when the city is about to be besieged.
(uncertain, glances
We'll go alone.
My King, with your permission... The King assents, seemingly lost. Amoun speaks to Perseus.
I'll give you a map and much more. I'll go with you and bring a small band of comrades to help you on your mission. We can leave at first light.  Diokles, the map. The men move to the work area, where the Aide selects a map from dozens. Something catches Perseus' eye.
Andromeda, up in the balcony, has made herself visible only to him. She silently mouths these words -- "Thank... you."
We head north on the Via Dahlia. If we can make it to the Disputed Territories... MOVE IN ON the tip of Amoun's pointer on the
. we'll join the Cleon desert legion, the most formidable unit in all the army... With their escort, we can safely reach our destination in Skolothia, which lies to the east... We DISSOLVE THROUGH the map and pointer, which remain LIGHTLY SUPERIMPOSED over the following:
First, two fearsome Mongols, MONGKE and TAMBURLANE.
Our guides will be Mongke and Tamburlane, father and son monster hunters from the Kingdom of the Iron Horde. Next, THE PRAETORIAN GUARD, commanded by a square-jawed old soldier, DRACO. His men, in heavy armor: KOSMO, Draco's lieutenant, and the soldiers ABAS, ICOS, THAD, BOREAS, KRIKOR, and POLLUC.
Our escort will be a detachment of the Praetorian Guard, led by Commander Draco -- the staunchest security force in Joppa. Next, on a stunning pale horse, a pale rider -- the Wilting Girl.
Why do we bring the Earth Goddess into this danger?
I thank the stars we have her. Besides, she takes her orders from an authority much greater than I. Next, Spyros; horseback riding is not one of his many skills. Behind him, Perseus and Amoun ride talking --
Amoun, it seems an odd coincidence you came into my life as tutor, so long ago, and now, once again you instruct me.
Who would have thought we'd be on a journey like this? Two simple fishermen.
I'm afraid I've dragged you into real danger, Father, when I have little idea of what I'm doing.
Living at the mercy of the sea so long has convinced me some adventures are unexpected and some dangers unavoidable. It's all in your attitude.
What's our attitude about destroying Leviathan?
The Kraken is just another big fish. Perseus smiles, but is not as sanguine.
The demigod and his retinue are joined. They march for the counsel of the Norn Sisters, to seek the frailty of my Leviathan.
Yes. I beseech you, track the expedition.
To plainly thwart them would betray our intentions and draw the wrath of Zeus and the others.
That, we cannot have. I merely suggest that the road to Skolothia is hazardous.
I take your meaning. And your loyal brute, he is fixed upon the hunt?
Fear not, he is about and he will do his share of damage. Set leaves. Tiamat resumes stirring the storm clouds.
You must sleep.  Princessat You must take care of yourself. A CRACK OF THUNDER. Andromeda looks over at her, thinking.
My father was ready to sacrifice me to the monster.
I'm sure that is not so.
I saw it. I heard the words. My loving father, his beloved child. Only Perseus stayed his decision.
The city is besieged, the people suffer.
Because of me, because he did not offer me up. Is that right?
Go to sleep, my lady.
 Sleep? Sleep will come soon enough for me, faithful one. In one month... at the latest. The palace shakes with the ROLLING THUNDER.
Joppa is pummelled by the Dark Goddess.
By what name may mortals call you?
I have no name.
Who do your worshippers pray to?
I can't remember.
Perhaps that is why they are falling in number?
The Wilting Girl flinches, and Perseus feels guilty about his jest.
I have to call you something...
That's a pretty name. Wait, better yet -- 'Vidalia'? How's that... 'Vidalia'? That's more than pretty, beautiful really, just as you are. She is pleased, self-conscious, concentrating on the road ahead.
You don't like it?  What's that? I missed it --
(just loud enough to
I do not object. She picks up the pace, moving her horse a little ahead. He smiles.
More. The Mongols stare -- either not comprehending or ready to fight.
It must last all night. Get some more.
I'll find some more.
Commander, I'll get some, too. Perseus and Abas head off into the woods in different directions.
Perseus sees Vidalia on the far side, her back turned. Perseus freezes as she drops her garment. He peers through the vines.
The leaves offer tantalizing cover to her naked body. She dives in with a quiet SPLASH.
Now is when an honorable man would turn around and walk away...
Perseus' HEART POUNDS in his ears as he watches. KRA- KOOM! The ROLLING THUNDER hits exactly on his heartbeat -- BOOM, BOOM, BOOM! Vidalia instantly knows he is nearby. She looks around quickly and huddles in the water. Perseus retreats. After a few yards, he stops, face flushed with the awareness of a whole new dilemma.
Vidalia...
Hear me, my pet. Let my instructions be seared to your primal mind as natural law.
You are starving. Your gut says you'll soon perish. No earthly meat will still that hunger. What you need, what you ache for, is the flesh of... a demigod!
Pegassi, stallions of the Gods.
Perseus. How long do you think you could stay on one of those? Icos and Boreas exchange a sly look.
Don't goad the boy, Icos. No Man can ride a Pegasus.
Did not Bellerophon tame the Great White Pegasus?
You're right. But he was a demigod...
Stop it, rogues. One of our own has disappeared without a trace and all you can think is to cause mischief. What if Perseus is bucked to his death from a thousand feet up?
Don't worry, Commander, the boy won't even get on its back. With a "watch this" grin, Perseus rises. Draco pulls him back down.
Don't do this. If we go back to camp right now, we can avoid trouble and keep our goal in sight. A true leader will not be distracted.
I'm not the leader, Draco, Amoun is. I'm too young to start avoiding trouble. Perseus jumps up and approaches a roan Pegasus, speaking soothingly. It WHINNIES and threshes its wings, buffeting Perseus with gusts. The Pegasus rears up, and leaps over Perseus' head. It lands behind him, bucks its hind legs, and kicks Perseus face-first into the dirt. Icos and Boreas are laughing, but when Draco gives them a dark look, Boreas jumps up, sobered, and heads into the clearing.
I'll collect him right now, Commander. Suddenly, Humbaba erupts from the thicket with a HOWL. The Pegassi take flight, but the Humbaba grabs one and swallows it whole. Humbaba turns and SNIFFS the air, homing in on Perseus.
Perseus, get out of there! Icos, fetch the others. Icos bolts. Draco and Boreas leap into the clearing with swords drawn to draw the monster's attention. Perseus does the same.
I told you to run, boy. You'll make things worse.
A Humbaba! Mongke and Tamburlane fly into the woods; the others follow.
Boreas! Draco hacks at the monster's leg, to no avail. it rips off Boreas' head and swallows his body. Perseus CRIES OUT and leaps at the creature, sword swinging.
No, Perseus!
Get back! Vidalia spins her shepherd's sling to pitch lead sling- bullets. Spyros leaps between Perseus and the monster and thrusts his weapon -- a VICIOUS-LOOKING HARPOON/BOAT
Tamburlane hoists an ancient BAZOOKA. Mongke lights the fuse and backs away. KA-BOOM! The weapon belches fire and metal. The Humbaba staggers from the shot, but lunges and swallows Mongke whole. Spyros sinks his harpoon in one leg, but has it ripped from his hands.
A delusion is planted in its mind. It thinks it's starving and it wants to feed on --
The Humbaba's eyes bulge with surprise as a saber pierces its nose. From inside, Mongke pries open the beast's mouth with his saber.
I can't reverse the powerful curse. But if the monster's hungry, I can feed it. Vidalia raises her arms and shuts her eyes. A cyclone of CAWING RAVENS descends from the sky and dives straight into the monster's mouth. As the Humbaba tries to shake them away, Mongke is thrown clear.
I should cast a spell upon you and leave you forever a stone upon this stream.
I didn't beckon the Humbaba.
You did, with your childish recklessness, and Boreas has paid the price! Perseus, already rife with guilt, is stung by the truth.
Your safety is entrusted to me by the mightiest power on Olympos.
But without a thought, you risk life and limb, your own and your fellows'.
The monster killed my friend. I could not contain my rage. But you, Goddess, are aloof from the emotions of Men. Vidalia's eyes narrow, enraged.
Yes, a tyrannical Goddess, who dares question your mad rush to annihilation.
Where have you brought me?
It's okay... Peshet tries to leave, but Agenor stops her.
Just listen to this good man. He needs your help. Fantasos comes forward. He fixes her with a hypnotic gaze.
Do you know who I am, child?
You are the Priest of the Streets.
That's right. You know that the good common people of Joppa trust that I will look after their welfare.
Some do...
Do you love the people of Joppa, Peshet? (as she nods,
Do you want them to be destroyed by this awful curse? (as she shakes her
No, of course not. You want what's best for the people.
I have always served the royal family.
Yes, you have, good Peshet. And now you may be in a better position than anyone to help the Princessa save the city.
Master Amoun... You knew about me, didn't you? When you came to our village?
Your birth was written in the stars. I sought you out and took it as my cause to teach you.
You chose a poor student. I have learned little and my mistakes cost dearly.
Understanding that is the first step toward knowledge.
It won't do Boreas any good.
You can honor Boreas by the way you act from this moment forward.
I'm no demigod, Tutor. I'm not even much of a human.
It is not your choice. You are what you are. Amor fati, Perseus. 'Love thy fate.'
I do not believe my fate is to be half a God. No demigod could feel as confused as I do tonight.
Concentrate on the task before you. All answers will come with that.
Tell me of the Cleon Desert Legion.
A fierce group. Trained to fight... Amoun's DESCRIPTION CONTINUES as we --
The desert camp of the Legion is lit by torches. The LEGION SOLDIERS are handsome, powerful career warriors, going about their evening business -- eating, cleaning weapons, washing.
. behind enemy lines. A LOOKOUT peers into the dark desert, listening. Now he HEARS something, turns and shouts to another SENTRY:
The Night Patrol returns on the Gorge Road! That message is shouted along from Sentries to Guards in the camp. OUT IN THE DARKNESS on the dusty Gorge Road, a dozen Soldiers gallop in GROUND-SHAKING FORMATION toward the firelit encampment.
. They've been chasing Djinn Raiders in the mountains for years.
Djinn Raiders?
Yes, Godly zealots, supposedly insane. They fight like Hades himself is keeping score... From the dark SURROUNDING DESERT, WE SEE the Night Patrol ride into camp and dismount.
.. That's how the Desert Legion came to be called 'God-slayers.' I'm not ashamed to say I'll be relieved to have their protection the rest of the way... Amoun's Voice FADES. TILT DOWN TO the barren, desert flats. Suddenly, a miracle transforms the moonlit
Strange, beautiful MAGENTA FLOWERS sprout magically where there had been only dirt and cacti. The LOTUS BLOSSOMS surround the camp.
-- Tiamat, ensconced in a natural throne of rock. Turning a Lotus blossom in her hand, she smiles on Kalibos, like a benevolent mother.
My loyal friend. it is beneath you to stalk this band of infidels one by one. Events demand more decisive action. Kalibos' SPEECH is as tortured and deformed as his body --
Grorashnrd... I to be... ruler... rhodirs... made whole... sovfrenty... kingdom mine...
Yes, Kalibos, the time is nigh when I restore you to your rightful form -- proud Acrisius. With me, your protector, on the throne of Olympos... the violator Zeus deposed. Kalibos reacts, with what must be satisfaction.
Go down into this valley. See what I am building for you -- an army dangerous and fearless as you, their leader.
How much are we meant to suffer? Where is your mighty King? Safely cloistered above the flood... on the high ground, with the high- born -- the privileged gentry!... The angry crowd responds, fists shaking. Peshet moves through the throng, desperately looking for Andromeda. She passes close to the rostrum and Fantasos registers her presence.
. Does Kepheus worry about you? No! Only the Princessa... And still, the Kraken comes! Does the King build his defenses at the water's edge? "NO!" cries the crowd. Peshet is shocked to find herself replying with them -- "NO1" Fantasos motions for Agenor to continue the harangue, while Fantasos hurries off the stage.
No! He makes his stand at his daughter's chamber door!... We will show Kepheus we're not sacrificial fodder. We will tremble the walls of his Basilica! RABID SUPPORT from the mob. Peshet stops suddenly, peering ahead.
at the fringe of the crowd, Andromeda herself watches from the anonymity of a hooded cloak, terrified.
Andromeda is the one Tiamat wants! We die so she may live... As the crowd EXPLODES, Andromeda hurries away in tears. Peshet fights through the crush to follow her.
Peshet, you've come at the right time. Fantasos engages her with hypnotic power. Peshet nods, trance-like.
One night soon, a gong will sound three times. When you hear it, unlock the back gate of the Basilica. Then go to Andromeda's chambers...  . and bring the Princess out. My men will take her to Leviathan. Peshet just stares at the dagger, hands trembling.
Do you understand me? (harshly, off her non-
Peshet, do you understand how important your part is? She nods, horrified by her predicament.
You wanted to know about Djinn Raiders. Here they are.
 Look sharp. Watch your surround.
The Alkali Lotus... She stops, spotting something in the distance. Kosmo pulls up.
What is that?
shimmering through the desert heat -- tents and flags.
Where is everyone? Spyros HEARS something and follows the SOUND to a tent, weapon ready.
Draco, tell me what this -- Everyone is standing perfectly still. DARK FIGURES surround them. The transformed Cleon Legion lurches INTO VIEW. The only resemblance to the soldiers they were is their armor.. Now they're monstrous creatures: LOTOPHAGI.
I won't do anything rash. I've learned my lesson.
This time you must do something rash. We all must. Kalibos leans close to Perseus.
Tosharicana... demigod... expulsotat... Zeusl
No... Perseus. PERSEUS WHIPS OUT HIS SWORD. The whole Expedition comes to life as                                                 -- THE LOTOPHAGI ATTACK, swift and brutal. Long arms thrash and rip at the Praetorians. Mongke and Tamburlane BLAST the swarm with HANDGONNES. Spyros lobotomizes one with his harpoon. Amoun opens a leather sack of sand.
Muster to me!
Thad, Krikor and Perseus are the first there. Amoun tosses an arc of the black sand around them all. The ring of sand transforms into a dense, swirling swarm of insects. Amoun shouts to the others, still fighting.
Come on! You can pass through! Draco bolts for the barrier. A Lotophagi spears Kosmo, killing him. Draco slides inside the swarm. He looks back at Kosmo in horror. Polluc slashes zombies and runs toward the swarm. He's almost there when one of the Lotophagi lands on him, sinking fangs into his skull. Polluc sticks his sword into the creature; they both fall over dead. Icos and Spyros fight their way to the swarm and jump inside. Mongke and Tamburlane kill a Lotus-eater and leap over the corpse into the protected circle. The tide of HOWLING and SHRIEKING Lotophagi claw at the barrier of insects to no avail.
Only humans can penetrate the shield! Perseus takes quick stock of the group inside the swarm, thinking.
Only humans... He looks over the Lotophagi and sees Vidalia out there, alone, flinging sling-bullets as she fights her way toward the barrier.
Drop the barrier!                                          r
No! It's too late for her!
Drop it, Amoun! At that moment, Kalibos grabs Vidalia and drags her to the top of an outcrop. At the top, he turns, LOOKS DIRECTLY AT PERSEUS and HOWLS, his message clear: "If you want to save her, come and get her." He hungrily rips her leather bandeau. Perseus turns to Amoun.
Take the barrier down or I'll go through it!
Have you learned nothing? If you break out now, we're all at risk. On the boulder, Kalibos grabs Vidalia's white flesh. Perseus is anguished; he knows he's in love.
I've learned one thing for certain! Perseus shouts at Thad, the massive Praetorian.
Get down! Perseus backs away three steps. To the others               --
Get ready to defend yourselves! Perseus runs, plants a foot on Thad's back and leaps out through the swarm, which immediately dissipates around the humans. They have only a moment to react as the stunned Lotophagi come to their senses.
Let's kill these freks! Perseus runs over the backs of the Lotophagi. Hurtling off them, he scrambles up and knocks Kalibos off Vidalia. Ralibos rolls, flips onto his feet and gives Perseus a look: "You're the one that I want." They face off, looking for an opening. Perseus lunges, thrusting his sword. Kalibos dodges, springing up the rocks and then down toward Perseus, acrobatic as an ape. Perseus rolls out of the way. Perseus sweeps his sword at Kalibos' head. The monster catches the blade in his jaws and SNAPS IT IN TWO! Bloody spittle flies from his tongue. Kalibos pounces, pins Perseus. He opens his jaw and sinks his teeth into Perseus' shoulder. Vidalia cracks a rock into Kalibos' head. The creature whirls on Vidalia and careens toward her, head bloody. Perseus leaps in the air and catches Kalibos in the back with both feet, knocking him over the edge.
Kalibos slams down on the jagged boulders and ricochets off, pinwheeling through the air. The grotesque figure hits the lower rocks head-first and his neck CRUNCHES. He slams into the dust, dead. Perseus lands on his back, weak from the bite. When he tries to rise, his legs are rubbery. Vidalia catches him as he falls forward and lowers him gently, looking at the bloody puncture wounds.
Draco, Spyros, Amoun and the others hack away, fending off the Lotophagi. Outnumbered, they won't last long. The earth VIBRATES. The Lotophagi are distracted, looking around nervously. Over a rise stampede SCORPIOCHS, rhino-sized scorpions. Riding them, DJINN RAIDERS, flowing black silk masking all but their blue eyes. They lay into the Lotophagi. The Scorpiochs skewer the beasts with HUGE PINCERS. The Djinn use flashing SCIMITARS to cut them down.
Vidalia... we need to help them... He blacks out. Vidalia cranes to look over the edge of the cliff where Kalibos fell. She is mystified by what
The deformed monster Kalibos is gone. In his place, neck broken, lies a handsome, aging noble, finally at peace -- King Acrisius.
To save me, you risked everything -- your mission, your friends... the fate of multitudes. Men need better judgment in the one who is meant to lead them... No longer able to lecture, she regards him with love.
You shouldn't have risked your life for me. It is a waste to save me when I'll be gone so soon. She strokes his hair and kisses his forehead.
Thank you for your reckless disregard. Thank you, Perseus... Vidalia holds her palm above the floor and mutters a quick incantation. A small shoot APPEARS and SPROUTS FAT PODS. Vidalia squeezes the salve from a pod and covers Perseus' wound. The wound bulges, then squirms deeper into Perseus. Perseus shoots up, clutching his chest. Vidalia gently lays him down. Perseus gags. A VIPER WRIGGLES from his throat and slithers away with the fat lump of infection in its stomach.
The poison is gone now.
Where... Where are we? The
In the Djinn caravan. They're escorting us to the Skolothian border.
But I thought the Djinn...
We all did. But their leader, Shaikh Suleiman, has some special interest in you.  Just sleep. She waves her palm over his face, and he does sleep.
The Skolothians have suffered more than their share in this war. The Legions of the Gods have battered them.
It's no wonder they shy away from all strangers. Perseus looks ahead, where the Expedition is parting company with the Djinn Raiders. only one of the Djinn is staying -- SHAIKH SULEIMAN, a veiled priest.
Why does this Djinn priest stay with us?
Because of you. You're the reason they saved us.
Me? I don't understand.
Why don't you ask him?
I thought they didn't speak.
They have no mouths. That doesn't mean they do not speak.
The Pillar of Moirai. Lair of the Norn Sisters.
Tell me of them.
They're witches in the form of Strix. Not a pleasant sight, a Strix. They have powerful magic and dreadful habits. Baby-eaters, among other things.  But they owe me a favor. When the war broke out, they lent their power to men against the Gods in exchange for infant sacrifice. Tiamat struck them blind for their treachery. When they came for help, I fashioned them an artificial eye, for their Second Sight.
You made only one eye?
(pleased with his
Yes. They have to take turns. If they all could see at once, they would be invincible, which one cannot risk in beings so grotesque.
Stay away from my boy! Without touching him, the Shaikh throws the fisherman over his head, where he lands hard with an "UMPH!" Perseus jolts awake. He reaches for his sword, but has none. Spyros struggles to his feet to start another charge. Suleiman raises his hand and freezes Spyros in his position. The Shaikh's veil has fallen, revealing his frightening countenance: scaled skin of charred wood; eyes like slots in a furnace. Perseus listens to the
Spyros, he means me no harm. The Shaikh lowers his hand: Spyros falls into the dirt. The Shaikh pulls his veil over his face. He kneels before Perseus, head bowed.
I hear you and I understand you. But I don't know how.
Moi ne epos ae'prositi, mene daeva.
You are praying to me? There must be a mistake. The Shaikh proffers the gleaming bronze sickle which has a zig-zag, LIGHTNING BOLT PATTERN engraved on the blade, honoring Zeus.
An offering'? I thank you and take it humbly, as agift from a friend, not an offering. He takes the weapon and bows his head, surprising the Shaikh.
Tuj patir esti ho theos kosmosr.
You honor my father? You honor Spyros?
Ho Zeus Patir... Zeus... Perseus reacts, taken aback to hear it from this mysterious stranger.
A FLAP of WINGS and suddenly perched atop the stones are the NORN SISTERS: URD, VERDANDI, and SKULD -- human- sized owls with the gray faces of old crones                . Each has one central EYE SOCKET; they share one ARTIFICIAL ORB. The Strix toss the Eye between them and pop it in to study the arrivals.
 Amoun... So sorry to see you again.
Likewise, Urd. I seek your counsel.
You know already... of course.
We know this -- the Kraken cannot be defeated.
Surely the beast from the sea has some weakness. You owe me this answer at least.
The Sisters owe nothing to you or any Man! She tosses the Eye to Verdandi, who focuses her attention on Perseus.
There's something wrong with that one. I don't like having him here.
Let me take a look. Verdandi tosses the Eye to Skuld. Perseus leaps and snags the Eye out of mid-air. The Strix SCREECH. Perseus goes to the precipice.
Tell us what we want to know or your Eye has seen its last.
The Norns flap their wings and puff up their feathers.
You've brought a thief into our nest!
A villain!
Scum!
No, good Sisters... the son of Zeus. The Strix react in horror and all land on the same monolith.
Since you cannot see, let me tell you what's about to happen. I'm about to throw this evil Eye to the rocks far below. I fear its journey will be a taxing one. The members of the Expedition are impressed; Vidalia, too: the young demigod shows growing leadership. The Strix are panicked --
We can't tell you. We don't dare betray Tiamat again.
She sees all! Her touch is felt in every evil thing!
A second offense and she will
You don't have to tell us the secret. But you will have to live as blind as she made you.
No! Give us the Eye and we'll tell.
Tell me first. If I like the answer, you get your Eye.
We need the Eye to see the answer!
You know the answer sure as you already knew the question. The Norn Sisters confer, enclosed in a curtain of wings.
Leviathan can be destroyed...
The beast has one weakness.
Tell us now! The Strix are torn, frightened. Finally --
The stare of Medusa. No creature can look directly in her eyes and still survive. The answer hangs in the silence of the stunned Expedition.
They're lying, Perseus. Perseus studies the Sisters, weighing his response.
I believe them.  Here's your second sight. Verdandi launches and catches it in her beak, pops it in her socket.
 And Medusa! Where does she abide?
In Tartaros, beyond the frozen Tethys Sea. Only Charon's ferry dare challenge the ice.
How can she be slain?
With extraordinary cunning and unimaginable luck. Skuld flaps to the pitch-black portal to an UNDERGROUND
And the proper tools. Explore our cache of spoils. You may find such a tool. Perseus stares into the black entrance.
Don't go in there, Perseus. It's a trap.
No. We have guaranteed the rage of Tiamat with this revelation...
. we ask only that the young God mention our aid...
... to his Father.
I need a light. The Shaikh holds a branch near his eyes until the end bursts into flame and hands it to Perseus, who disappears into the blackness.
Captain, the storm is too great!
Joppa is under siege! King Kepheus needs these supplies! Something huge breaches the surface. The captain squints through the rain... and sees the GIGANTIC SCUTED TAIL of Leviathan. IT GOES RIGHT PAST THEM, miraculously leaving the fleet untouched. But then -- they HEAR a sound BIGGER than the typhoon. The dark sky gets darker as an ENORMOUS BLACK SHAPE appears behind the Fleet, bearing down on them at impossible speed -- TIAMAT'S PALACE-GALLEON so dwarfs the Fleet that it PLOWS THROUGH the other ships without noticing, obliterating them in seconds, sending all hands to the depths.
Tell of the Gorgoneion.
The Rape of Medusa? Everyone falls silent. The soldiers shift, suddenly nervous.
With respect, Magi, do not recite that black tale. You'll bring the sky down upon us.
Does a fairy tale frighten you, soldier? Thad looks at him, sharply.
Tell the story, sir. My men fear only one thing -- to let fear in their hearts. Mongke says something that means, "Go ahead already."
Medusa was a tender young woman once -- a mortal creature of such rare beauty as to tempt even the Gods. One night, on the road home, she caught the eye of the God of Deserts and Entropy -- Set the Void.
She hastened to hallowed ground, thinking the Goddess Tiamat would protect her in her temple. But the God Set followed. A SHADOW passes swiftly over the shattered pitcher, in pursuit.
His cloak ripples as SHAPES PUSH THROUGH THE SPECTRAL FOLDS -- the girl's reaching fingers, her screaming face.
He ravished her on the cold floor. She felt the heartless passion of a God.
Despoiled and broken in the shadow of Tiamat's altar, she prayed for comfort and pleaded for courage... But the Goddess of the Deep regarded Medusa with disdain. The prayers of such a frail and filthy mortal angered Tiamat. A bust of Tiamat chiseled from black crystal opens her BLAZING eyes, THROWING A LONG SHADOW OF MEDUSA onto the wall.
The Goddess twisted young Medusa into a loathsome new thing... The contorting shadow shows the transformation. Legs twist and snap and become a slithering tail. Snake heads wriggle from her skull.
.. and cursed her with a hateful stare that petrifies to stone all that look upon her. Grave silence. Draco realizes he's burned his dinner on the fire. Spyros shakes his head. Perseus just stares, a believer. NOISES come from the fog: SPLINTERING ICE; SLOSHING OARS. A SHAPE emerges -- an ice-cutting THREE-TIERED GALLEY, oars moving with precision.
Charon's ferry.
Better stoke those fires, boys, it's going to get cold soon.
She's got a tail and she'll use it just like that. Perseus opens his eyes.
Keep your eyes shut! Open them with Medusa and it will be your last look.
He can't see her smile. Or that she regards him with something hotter than amusement. She tries to punch him, but he blocks it.
Good! Pleased, he doesn't sense her right cross, which knocks him down.
Do you think the Gorgon will hit once and then surrender her head? He gets up, eyes closed, and resumes the defensive position, turning as she moves around him.
Listen... you will hear her muscles coil. Feel her hunger in your gut. Ask, how will she feed it?
I wish it, but I can't perceive the world that way.
You can. You're the son of a God.
Nothing I have done has convinced me of that.
You do not see yourself clearly yet. In time, your actions in crisis will sharpen your view. Her faith touches him deeply. She resumes the lesson:
You can do those things, Perseus, and much more. He shadows her movements more closely, back and forth.
We think a room is silent until someone points out the wind. Then the wind is all we hear. She strikes. He dodges and locks her neck. Pleased, she flips him.
Surprisingly, he lands on his feet, and immediately sweeps her legs. She starts to fall backwards, but -- SLOW MOTION as Perseus dives forward and cradles her gently as they both fall to the floor. A move beyond human. She looks up at his closed eyes, worried. Their lips are inches apart. REGULAR SPEED --
I'm beginning to hear the wind. (senses something,
Vidalia... why are you afraid? She kisses him, deeply. He returns it. Suddenly, she rolls free and stands up, turning away from him.
Wait... She is already climbing the ladder. She stops for only a
You've learned enough for now.
What?
Nothing.
What do you see?
A look I know well.
From me?
Never before.
Then where? Spyros smiles, puts his huge, calloused hand on Perseus' shoulder.
In my own mirror, son.
When does it go away?
If we're lucky... never.
Jaggous temploi Tartaros de Gorgoneion maitress.
The Temple of Tartaros... Medusa's lair. Mongke and Tamburlane exchange words and point. They all
TWO STONE STATUES flank the entrance: a pair of enormous CENTAURS -- NESSUS and IXION, their eyelids sewn shut. Icos and Krikor exchange distressed looks.
Medusa must have turned them to stone. Perseus swings his sickle, measuring its balance, and adjusts his shield. He checks a canvas sack on his belt.
I'm going into the Temple.
I am with you.
Are you afraid?
Of what?
Good boy.
Yes. You?
Nessus charges Amoun. Amoun throws a handful of sand, which becomes a hail of STEEL-BARBED DARTS in midair,      C which lash the Centaur's flesh. Tamburlane rolls under the beast and fires his weapon. Nessus hurls the monster-hunter against a boulder and goes for him when -- -- Shaikh Suleiman jumps between them. His scimitar slashes but is ripped from his hands. The Shaikh BOWS
Nessus' mace shatters Shaikh Suleiman's head of charred wood. BLUE FIRE shoots out his neck, ENVELOPING THE CENTAUR. The burning Centaur crumples, dead. Ixion SLAMS his mace down, just missing Amoun. Suddenly, Vidalia's sling-bullets slice his flesh. Ixion turns and leaps at Vidalia.
The men can't see it, but one wall suddenly frames a silhouette of MEDUSA: HAIR OF HISSING SNAKES atop a woman's torso, the body of a mammoth reptile. WE SEE only GLIMPSES of Medusa as she slides through the shadows. Her forked tongue tastes the air. CUTTING BETWEEN Spyros, Perseus and Draco, moving silently on opposite sides of the sanctuary. OUR VIEW of Draco is suddenly BLOCKED by Medusa -- she coils around Draco without touching him. He HEARS the RASP of SCALES ON STONE.
I hear her, Perseus. She's near! Her torso behind him, she RATTLES her tail in front. Draco spins and slices the air. The RATTLE stops. Draco waits, confused.
(from across the
Draco, be wary --                                           ! Medusa gingerly tugs Draco's blindfold free. Draco sees the tail before him. Unthinking, he instinctively spins and looks. Medusa's face is inches from Draco's. His muscles lock and his flesh hardens to scabrous stone, emanating SMOKY GAS. Medusa breathes in the vapors ecstatically. AT THAT MOMENT a hole blasts through the roof of the cavern as Ixion crashes down in a cloud of dirt -- dead, a gaping wound in his head. Medusa regards her fallen minion in horror, loosing a
Spyros HEARS HER and blindly hurls his harpoon toward the sound. WITH THE HARPOON as its sails cleanly through slanted pillars and debris, WHOOSH, WHOOSH, until it comes through a tiny opening and -- THUDS into Medusa's body! The Monster SCREAMS, whipping about. She tries to pull the harpoon out, but can't.
Perseus, I think she's hit!
Where?
Near to the left! Medusa's enraged attention shifts back and forth between the VOICES of the two men, deciding which to attack. Perseus tries to control his shakes, jumping at every sound, head swiveling blindly. From a distance --
Perseus... I don't hear her near me! Perseus steps back and BUMPS into a column.
The relief fleet is lost. Monsters gather outside our walls. Soon I won't be able to keep my own people at bay. And still, no word from the Expedition. Kepheus raises a spyglass to survey the view beyond the city walls.
Tiamat commands a massive horde. How many days remain?
Our forces prepare. We have cards yet to play. We'll buy the time we need until...
Until the Expedition perhaps returns?... Until we're saved by the fisherman's son?
I would speak with the King in private.
We can speak here, in the elements our subjects endure. The King's men exchange looks, then bow discreetly away, leaving father and daughter alone. Andromeda looks down at the tent city.
They take refuge from the Lower Wharf. A sight I wish you'd never seen.
You've sheltered me too long from the hard things in this world.
I would have it no other way.
And I thank you for the gift of my cosseted youth. But now, with Mother so...  It's time I shared this burden you've carried so long. Filled with emotion, he puts an arm around her.
You make me proud, but you are only a child... my little one.
No, no longer. Your protection of me has brought hardship to our people...
and to me, perhaps, new understanding. I must ask you something, Father. She turns away from his gaze and looks down at the city.
If you could end this siege with just one unselfish act, would you do it?
To save my people, yes, of course.
Such an act is within my power. He studies her a moment, then becomes alarmed.
Stop itl I forbid you to entertain such thoughts.
Perseus and the others were willing to give everything.
 Listen to me. By the time this is over, your mother and I may well be gone. But I guarantee the day is coming when Joppa will know glory under Queen Andromeda. She embraces him, head upon his shoulder, where he can't see her resolve.
Be at peace, Father, I will not cause you any more sadness than I already have.
The exhausted Expedition is now six: Perseus, Vidalia, Amoun, Spyros, Mongke, and Tamburlane. They've stopped at a well beside a MILESTONE.
Spyros studies the ancient words carved into the milestone: "Polis of JOVE PATER : XI stadia S."
Eleven stadia to the South... What is 'Polis of Jove Pater'? I'm ignorant of this.
Jove the Father is another name by which Zeus was known. This milestone dates from when city states were named for their patron deities. Perseus, filling his canteen, peers at the marker as Amoun uses one hand to cover the letters "-VE" and the other the letters "-TER."
'The Polis of Jove Pater' is the ancient name of --
-- Joppa.
Yes, Joppa... once the most sacred site in the worship of Jove.
 Tiamat chooses the city of Zeus to take hostage. (as Amoun confirms
She compels the people to make human sacrifice of the Princess Andromeda...
. and transforms Joppa into the new church of Tiamat. The ancient abode of Zeus...
Perseus holds her look. "No," he won't let that happen. But in his eyes are fear and doubt.
Father, we've seen much on this journey we cannot hold in our hands. Yet these things are real enough. At each turn, we find monsters and Gods.
Yes, the evidence is everywhere once we leave our island. That's why I so rarely leave. These Gods, what do you make of them?
As you always said, they're petty, vengeful... and dangerous.
Yes, as bad as men.  And would you have that sort guide your life?
No. Men must be accountable to themselves. Otherwise we serve poor masters.
That's my boy. Amoun rides up.
We should stop for the night.
We must keep moving. Time is running out.
If we don't rest the horses, they won't make it to Joppa.
Vidalia! Perseus slides from his horse and follows her. Mongke says something to Tamburlane; they LAUGH. Amoun to
Why don't we stop here tonight? Spyros smiles, looking off after Perseus.
I know this place... Suddenly, she hurries to the trunk of an ancient tree. She probes the foliage, steps forward... and descends into the ground, out of sight.
This is my church. Where I was born to the world. Where my people prayed to me.
Who were they?
When I saw you come out with Medusa's head, I saw that a Man had done an impossible thing. Beautiful, yes, but not fragile. Resilient. Fearless.
I was mad with fear. I was no hero. I just didn't want to die. Perseus turns toward the altar.
What is this? A marble tablet sits on the altar, its surface defaced. Vidalia runs her fingers along the scoring.
When the war began, Men ranged through the hills, stamping out any trace of God-worship they found.  My true name was carved here. When it was obliterated, my worshippers lost faith and my last season began.
How long do you have?
Only days.
What will happen?
I will vanish, quick as dew evaporating at dawn.
No one will notice the moment because all thought of me will be gone.
What about me?
Nothing can save me.
I don't believe that. Will love not buy another day, Vidalia?
When you vanish, I'll find you.
Close your eyes.                                            1
I'd rather look at you.
Do what I tell you.  I'm going to give you a spell.
Don't give away your secrets. You still have need of them.
Let me give you this sliver of magic. I'll write it on your instinct. When the time comes, you'll know how to use it. She takes his head in her hands, pressing her forehead to his. Gently, her fingers slip into his mind. A TEAR runs down her cheek.
In QUICK FLASHES: A white lid opens to a black eye. Reflected in the eye -- clouds roll over a stormy sky.
Feathered WHITE WINGS beat the air. Then: Racing over the surface of a blue SEA, and then down, down, to SMASH THROUGH the surface, into the depths.
How did he do this? They were not even to reach Medusa.
Fate has begun to shift. The future ripples with uncertainty.
Spare me your pitiful maundering! There is no Fate beyond my actions and no uncertainty in the face of my will.
Then there shall be no rules! Prove to me you have not lost that which makes you most valuable. Set absorbs her tirade, stung.
And Zeus... the others?
I am your ally. That is all you need to know. Bloody your hands and rid me of this pestilence.
You have liberated me, my Queen. Watch as your desires are quickly satisfied. Set disappears.
Where is she?
This is my fault. I've permitted .this infatuation to progress too far.
It is not yours to permit, Master... with respect. Vidalia comes down into the shrine, her apron full of berries.
Look what I've found for us -- She startles when she sees Amoun, dropping the berries.
I won't marry Andromeda.
Both Amoun and Vidalia are surprised.
If by some miracle you survive this encounter with Leviathan, the hand of the Princessa is your reward.
I want no reward.
Are you so selfish? Would you risk everything for the foolish love of -- A BLAST of HOT DESERT WIND blows into the Shrine. The berries turn brown and shrivel. Amoun grabs his chest. Perseus and Vidalia crumple in agony. SET THE VOID COMES INTO THE SHRINE. Amoun tries to invoke a spell, but Set touches his chest and Amoun splits open. Set points at Vidalia, slamming her into the earthen wall. The God is there in an instant, strangling her. Perseus staggers up and swings his sickle, but Set points, ripping the weapon from Perseus' hand. It flies across the shrine and sinks with a CLANG into the tablet that once held Vidalia's true name. Still choking Vidalia, Set grabs Perseus' arm. Perseus doubles over, paralyzed by the God's touch. Suffocating, Vidalia FADES MORE. Immobilized, Perseus watches her struggle and searches
 I am half God... and now is the time... Perseus rises. He cocks his arm and clobbers Set with an ear-splitting CRACK OF THUNDER and a sparking BURST OF WHITE ENERGY. Set drops Vidalia and lurches back, aghast. BLACK BLOOD shoots from his mouth. Perseus, his face contorted in rage, chokes Set. The God's body SPASMS and deforms in DEATH THROES.
Perseus slams the God down in a ghastly heap, which liquefies into thick black blood. It seeps into the sandy floor, leaving an ugly stain. Perseus rushes to embrace Vidalia, who is more evanescent than ever. They look with pain at the remains of Amoun.
I'm so sorry, Perseus. A look of brutal, determined resolve grows in Perseus' face.
We must go quickly now. He pulls the sickle from the marble with a BRINNG! The light flashes off Zeus' LIGHTNING BOLT PATTERN on the blade.
The combat has just begun.
We invoke thee, Queen of the Deep. We attend thee only to listen and obey. Fantasos moves through smoke to an altar, on which is a fearsome IDOL OF TIAMAT, unlike any representation we've seen.
We serve your will so that we may be absorbed into your perfection... Holy of holies... Tiamat! The Sanctuary is suddenly filled with the VOICE of --
Loyal servants... it may be an illusion, but the Idol seems to have taken on the most subtle of life. It does not move, but it breathes.
You have sown the seeds of revolt. Now comes the harvest. My legions stand ready at the gates. Only one rite of consecration remains before the Ascension. Fantasos, closest to the Idol, flinches, buffeted by an unseen draft.
The hour of sacrifice is upon us. Offer up the Princess Andromeda to Leviathan.
My lady? Princess Andromeda? She goes deeper into the rooms, then GASPS, looking off,
Andromeda stands on the balustrade of her balcony, preparing to jump to her death. She turns at the sound, teetering. Peshet rushes to her but stops when Andromeda raises a knife of her own. Peshet is shocked, not afraid.
Peshet, stop! I know what I am meant to do.
My lady, please --
I was afraid, Peshet. Afraid to understand that the fate of so many could rest with me.
Princessa, give me your hand. Andromeda, please. Please.
 I'm not afraid anymore. I will do what I must. I will die so that they may live.
I won't allow it, my lady. Today, you are only a Princess. One day your people may need a Queen ready to die for them. Peshet snatches up the dagger from where she dropped it.
Come, we have to hide you... right now.
She stops, picks up Andromeda's knife and hands it to       s her. Andromeda accepts it with resolve.
Good.
We must get to my mother and father. A VOICE from the darkness:
Your father is dead and your mother has been relieved of her suffering. The four Cloaked Rebels step into the light. Agenor wipes his bloody dagger on his cloak as all four advance.
The Princessa is coming with us. She has a rendezvous to keep. Peshet WHIPS HER DAGGER through the air; it THUDS into the neck of the First Rebel, killing him on his feet. Before he can fall, Peshet leaps to him and pulls out her knife. She plants herself in front of Andromeda.
Come and get her. Agenor and the other two circle Peshet. She moves with feline agility, but is separated from the Princess. To the Second Rebel --
Take the Princess -- alive! The Second Rebel circles around Peshet toward Andromeda.
Run, Princess! Save yourself. Peshet leaps on the Third Rebel. Andromeda runs away from the Second Rebel, who easily closes the gap.
You're not going anywhere, Your Highness. He grabs her in a bear hug from behind. She spins, tiny within his massive arms, and is suddenly facing him. He JOLTS in surprise, Andromeda's knife in his belly. He falls on her, dead. Peshet wins her struggle with the Third Rebel, sinking her dagger in him. She GASPS. Agenor has thrust his blade into her ribs. She totters and COUGHS -- deep and bloody. Peshet falls against the wall. Andromeda WAILS at the sight. She is pinned beneath the dead weight of the Second Rebel, unable to move. Agenor finishes off Peshet and turns to the Princess.
If it should come to pass, tell your mother and sister I loved them much. Perseus reaches out and touches his foster father warmly.
You'll have to tell them yourself. Vidalia's voice has become weaker.
The people are frightened. But they can triumph.. They need only one thing. Perseus turns to her, a question on his face -- "Tell me...                                                       11
A hero. They're waiting for you, Perseus. Perseus looks back toward the city. At last, there is no uncertainty in Perseus --
I will not fail them. He turns toward the Goddess, but Vidalia is gone.
Vidalia? (realizing,
No. It's too late. She's disappeared.
Agenor brings Andromeda barefoot through the mud. The onlookers jostle for a better view, some spiteful, some sad, all curious.
Agenor removes Andromeda's cloak, revealing her tattered nightgown. Fantasos inspects the MYSTERIOUS SYMBOLS inked on her naked back, streaked by rain. Agenor's thugs chain her to the winch at the precipice, hundreds of feet above the raging sea. As the winch is cranked, the chain lifts Andromeda upside down from the ground. Agenor pulls Andromeda close and flashes a cruel grin. She spits in his eye. He wipes his eyes and lets go of the chain.
As she RISES: The cliff drops straight down the jagged wall to the churning waves.
The sacrifice has begun.
I must get to the cliffs!
How? They all look at what separates them from the city --
The GATES OF THE CITY swing open. Out march the giant mechanical AUTOMATA, followed by streaming legions of JOPPAN INFANTRY. The two armies slam together -- The battle is joined. THEY FIGHT.
A mile offshore, a BULGE OF WATER SWELLS and plows toward the coast. The Onlookers watch in terrified awe as the swell races closer. Leviathan explodes from the surface, too huge to be seen whole. It shoots straight up, up, up the three-hundred- foot cliffs. The Kraken's jaws hurtle up at Andromeda. Onlookers recoil. Fantasos stumbles in panicked retreat. The creature's BELLOW is deafening. At the apex of its surge, it SNAPS ITS JAWS SHUT with a booming THUNDERCRACK... just millimeters from Andromeda's dangling head -- and FALLS BACK. Churning surf surrounds its endless SLIDE back down.
The Kraken slips underwater and its vast shadow immediately begins to circle wide for another attempt.
May we all have a good ride today! He spurs Pegasus. it beats its wings, launching from the ridge with astounding power.
No shit. They raise their weapons and spur their horses down the slope to war.
Andromeda manages to get herself swinging back and forth until she builds enough momentum to reach up and grasp the links above her. With effort, she climbs the very chain she dangles from, leaving a slack loop beneath. Leviathan's eyes break the surface below, watching Andromeda. With a HOWL, Leviathan HURTLES UPWARDS, jaws wide.
A SHADOW glides over the shocked onlookers. One by one, they tear their gaze from the sea and look up, GASPING
PERSEUS AND PEGASUS descending. Perseus sees Andromeda splash down and get pulled under. The winch platform SLAMS into the cliff face, pulled by Leviathan.
Perseus grips both the chain and the bag in his hand. Leviathan spirals on, but THE WINCH CATCHES ON A REEF and the chain SNAPS! Andromeda, suddenly separated from the monster, sinks, weighted by her shackles. Perseus, swimming with the raw power of a porpoise, dives after her, but loses his grip on the bag. Desperate, he looks back and forth: Andromeda, the sack -- both sinking. Perseus goes after the sack. Leviathan realizes it has lost the Princess. Huge eyes darting, it spots Andromeda and surges down after her. Andromeda, drowning, passes out. Tiny bubbles leak from her nose. Leviathan swims down to her, eye as big as her entire body. The wreck of a SUNKEN WHALER rests on the ocean floor. The Medusa sack FALLS INTO VIEW and catches on a harpoon wedged in the deck. Perseus appears, snags the sack and is about to kick upward. On impulse, he grabs the harpoon. Leviathan opens its huge jaws. Andromeda is sucked toward the maw. Perseus swims upward toward Leviathan's tail. Perseus concentrates -- a sparking BURST OF WHITE ENERGY shoots through his forearm to the harpoon in his grip. LIGHTNING CRACKLES and BOILS the water. He plunges the harpoon in the Kraken's tail -- -- at the same moment Leviathan inhales the unconscious Andromeda. Contact -- an ELECTRIC FLASH-POINT FLARES and a charge races up Leviathan's spine. Jolted, the monster spits Andromeda out. The Kraken twists to lock its enraged gaze on Perseus. Perseus shuts his eyes and yanks Medusa's head from the sack. Medusa's hellish eyes ignite channels of boiling energy into Leviathan's enormous eyeballs -- hardening them to boiled eggs, then rocky spheres.
The monster thrashes, tries to turn -- but unbending stone races its length, freezing the gargantuan curves -- the scuted tail locks mid-flail into a final, permanent hook. Dead in the water, the grotesque mass sinks like a mountain range, picking up speed as it plunges into the
Perseus must swim like a God to snatch Andromeda from the downward tug. The stone Kraken barely misses them as it
-- and CRASHES in a cloud of silt, SHAKING THE OCEAN FLOOR like an earthquake. A CRACK opens in the seabed and sucks back the silt. The trench deepens and streaks away across the seabed, swallowing all the water above it, creating a giant opening to the sky.
I damn you, Zeus! You will hear my curses forever in the crash of
Walls of water collapse, burying the Goddess, her ship, and her malediction deep in her realm. We HEAR a world- rocking ROAR, which booms off toward --
THE TIDE TURNS IN THE BATTLE as the Joppans and their steel allies, the Automata, wade into the ranks of creatures. Mongke and Tamburlane, in the center of the battle, find the opposition turning tail. They roar and lift their weapons high, surviving yet another fight. Spyros, bloodied but unbowed, smiles wide and sits down in the mud, exhausted.
Hello. (as she smiles,
Are you all right? She takes a moment, doing an inventory. Finally, she nods.
I think I am. He smiles. She'll never know how close they came to oblivion.
Are you ready to become a king? His expression is kind, but unmistakable. "No." She accepts that, rueful.
Are you ready to become a queen?
She thinks about it, her face beginning to light with confidence.
Yes. Yes, I am.
Then you're ready to go home. Perseus raises one arm. The-AIR reverberates to a LOUD BEATING OF WINGS. Andromeda looks up in wonder. Pegasus appears out of the sun's glare, gracefully alighting on the water. Perseus helps Andromeda up and then climbs on behind her. Pegasus takes off. TILT UP WITH them until they are lost from sight.
TWO FUNERAL PYRES burn. The citizens of Joppa, by the thousands, commend King Kepheus and Queen Cassiopeia to the afterlife. MOVING OVER THE CROWD, WE PUSH THROUGH the flame to find the new ruler of Joppa. Mournful, but cloaked in regal dignity and strength -- QUEEN ANDROMEDA.
Perseus views the scene from a nearby hill. Behind him, Pegasus waits patiently, grazing the grass. Until --
-- the equine suddenly WHINNIES and REARS UP. Just as quickly, Pegasus goes silent and BOWS DOWN. Perseus looks in that direction, to find -- ZEUS the Prime, God of Gods, an eagle perched on his arm. He couldn't look more imposing.
Am I to understand you do not intend to make this union with the Queen Andromeda?
Yes.
Despite my will and intention that you do so?
Yes.
Would you choose to condemn Men, your own people, to suffer more of this devastating War?
I have no people. You have stranded me between realms, neither man nor God.
No. I thank you... Father. Zeus, mighty God, reacts to the word. His expression softens and he looks on Perseus with growing pride.
You have freed me. I will not be a pawn for Men or Gods.
Does that absolve you suddenly of your responsibilities?
You've made me understand that my responsibility is to myself. So it is with us all.
It matters not. Whatever the source, I are only grateful. He looks off toward the funeral pyres and the human throng.
This war will end the moment you choose for it to end... and Men agree. I think, perhaps, that is the free will that all realms share. Zeus looks at him, proud, yet wistful -- what an offspring, what a creation!
What will you do, Man of free will? Perseus motions Pegasus forward, and swings up onto his back.
I'm going to find Vidalia.
So... my Son, you will be a pawn for love?
