Our society creates these socially and psychically disenfranchised men, and their revenge on society is terrible.  They are hard to catch.  They are "the nice guy next door," their employers -- if they work at all -- find them quiet and uncomplaining.  Early abuse and rejection have taught them passivity.  Only in their violent fantasies do they feel alive.  What they seek in their frenzied assaults on their victims is relief from passivity.  For these men, ten minutes relief is worth far more than the life of another human being.  Torture, the pain they inflict, the screams of the victim, are all part of the ritual that gives them a brief respite from their own psychic pain.  And then the depression, the forgetting, the feeling of sadness and despair begins the cycle all over again. Like addicts seeking their drug, Albert DeSalvo, Bianchi and Buono, Berkowitz, Dahmer, Bundy -- they seek out their next victim.
The cycle is endless until they are caught.  And they are caught by chance -- they run a red light, and a body is in the trunk.  A leaking pipe brings a plumber to a basement where they is the smell of death.
At any time, right now, as you listen, the FBI estimates there are 30 to 35 serial killers stalking their victims.  The serial killer is a plaque that must be addressed not only by the law, but by science. Florida spent eight million dollars to execute Ted Bundy.  It would have been better spent building a forensic penal facility devoted to research.
Confined for life, without parole, and subjected to scientific study, these men's lives might finally, in some small measure, educate and thereby protect society.  Thank you.
Doctor Hudson?  Are you okay in there?
Andy!  Andy!
It is October twelfth, 1994 in the city of San Francisco, California, U.S.A., the strongest, richest, most stable and happiest country in the world.  That is the sole place of life in the universe.  Under God.
Good God.  What happened to you?
'It's almost seven.  Make a goddam move.'
'Lousy move.  Not really into this game, Helen.  Let's drop it.  I've got a feeling about you.  Let's meet.  Like a date.'
'I'm a terrible date.  I'd mess up your life.'
'Another romantic dream gone all to hell.'
'Maybe it's better to just dream on; avoid the disappointments of life.  Come on, move.'
 Yes?  You son-of-a-bitch!  Son of a bitch...
You filthy... son of a bitch!
 You Queen is in check. Protect your Queen.
My third grade teacher at the convent shot better than that.
Yeah, but she had divine guidance.
I'd feel a whole lot safer with Sister Loretta for my backup.  Look at this guy: you shredded him!
Well, he's dead, he can't hurt me now.
It's sloppy shooting.  It's in character, Ruben, but unnecessary. And bad for your career.
I've been practicing.  Now can I kiss your tummy?
Perp's holding a hostage, the shoulder on his gun hand is gonna be exposed.
Answer it.
I'm sure she thinks it is.  Aren't you at least interested in which one it is?
 I'm here, where are you?... Heeeeyyy!  What a surprise!  No.  On duty, have to call you back... You, too, you too.  My God, you made my day.
You hit the brachial nerve...
You're good enough you'll never have to kill anyone.  I joined the cops to save lives, not waste them.
You know, M.J., when I watch you shoot, I realize I've got a little problem with my stance... could you just move over here and critique my legs?
The problem is between your legs. You told your shrink about that?
I tell my shrink about you, Sergeant.  I tell him you're the top cop of my dreams.
 Don't take that mess in the car.
He's in love with you already...
Oh, Christ, the Mouth is already here.
Hey.  And there's the Haircut right behind.  If she stops short he's gonna be there feet up her ass...
 Inspector, can you...
I just got here myself, Susan.
...confirm this third murder adds up to a pattern?  Do we have a serial killer on the loose in the city?
I just got here.  Talk to you later...
 What the hell does she want to do, scare everybody to death?
That's her job... Jesus, Quinn is here already.
I been waiting... I have to do everything myself.  Photo, crime tech, the Coroner are already inside.  The Landlady calls it in; tenant is not answering when called, she sticks her head in, sees the body, uses the deceased's telephone to call 911.  Otherwise nothing disturbed.  It's all yours, kid.  I'll take care of the Mouth and the Haircut.
 That the Landlady?  You wanna talk to her, Ruben?  Who was first on the scene?
I was.
 I'm over here?  What's your name, Officer?
Michael Johnson.
You touch anything, Mike?  Pick up anything?  Use the doorknob?  I don't want to find your prints on anything later and you tell me you forgot to tell me.
No.  I didn't.
Liver and rigor are telling me about eight hours.  I'm gonna take her out now if it's alright.
I'm seeing ligature marks on her neck here, petechial hemorrhages in her eyes.  Strangled.
You got it.  Same as the other two.
Tell whoever she can't come to the phone, she's all tied up.
That's real old material, get a new writer...
Hello?
 Hello!  This is Geena Martinez, how are you this morning?
What is this about, Ms Martinez?
I'm conducting a telephone survey to determine whether you're satisfied with your insurance on your personal valuables...
He used something soft, like a stocking or a bathrobe tie.
Anybody find it?
Cover her up, please.
Mike.  Why don't you tell me what's bothering you?
Whatever it is, I'm gonna find out and sooner is a hell of lot better than later.
Well, there's something missing in there.  There was something around her neck when I came in there, but it's gone now.
Who came in after you?
Lieutenant  Quinn.
Well, it's all right, then, Mike. Thanks.
 Get me good faces on the crowd here.  Get a couple of harness bulls to grab anybody who starts to run...
Don't tell your Grandmother how to suck eggs.  I only been doing this work since your junior prom, darling...
Damn fools!
... continues to stonewall the public.  Now...
You messed with the scene.
Shut up.
... third Bay Area woman has been strangled, but the police continue to deny that this is the work of one killer.  Lt. Thomas Quinn declares that the murders will be treated as unrelated crimes, unless new evidence...
You messed with the evidence.
I tagged the goddamned stocking. It ain't lost.  We're sequestering that evidence.  That's the trap some son of a bitch is going to fall into...
Am I in charge of this thing?  Or not.
I said you were...
Then I decided what evidence we choose to sequester.
 Okay.  What do you want to sequester?
The stocking around the neck.
You didn't say serial killer and I didn't say serial killer.
Right.
 This is the anniversary of the summer of love and your city fathers have declared a Festival of Love.  The Mayor and Chamber of Commerce don't want TV announcing killers on the loose.
Right.
We're gonna have a bunch of clapped out old hippies blissing on the Grateful Dead!  Sleeping in the park, smoking dope and sticking tulips up their ass.
 Good.
Harvey, I don't want you in here no more, making false statements...
They are not false.  We pay for city government like this, you don't even care about the truth?! I killed her in the bathtub.
Why?
Because she was dirty, a dirty girl!
How?  How did you do it, Harvey?
With a knife?
Good guess, but not good enough. Get the fuck outta here...
What am I wasting my time with this shit for?
Because it's your job, that's all.
Not what I meant; why me?
 Maybe it's something you did in this life, Nikko...
Got me.  That really hurt!  You...
 Get Mercer to run the medical, dental, legal bills, laundry and dry cleaning receipts, extermin- ators, mailmen, grocery and drugstore deliveries, handymen, plumbers...
It's mostly done, they got nobody in common, the three of them... No mutual friends -- the Landlady says nobody was ever there, she never saw her with anybody.
 Yes, ma'am, I know.  You can't talk her right now... because she's busy, she's all tied up.  Deep Throat's back.
 Fourteen calls from this broad. And she ain't stupid.
Who is this?
Who is this?
Inspector Halloran, Homicide.  I'm in charge here.
 Ask her about the moon bike.
I'm really interested in your ideas.  The moon bike.  What is that?
What is wrong with you people? The first two, I thought he might be on a lunar cycle because they were 28 days apart, but obviously not.  This new one is only two weeks.
You want to joke about moonbikes?!
No, ma'am.  This is no joke.  And neither is tying up telephone lines to police with crank calls while people in trouble are trying to get through for help.
You're calling me a crank?
Do you have any evidence to report, ma'am?  Do you know any of the victims...
I think this is number three...
 That's an opinion, not evidence...
 Helen Hudson.  Get Ruben back here?
Where were you?  Don't tell me. It's just under seventy, right?  The sun is strong but the air is dry and fresh...
Would you please get your hands off my face, Tallulah?  What happened to the newspaper?
I got it myself... I couldn't wait.
Well!  Aren't we the daring one? What's morbid and ghastly enough in the news to make Doctor Helen set foot outside her door?  The antenna is gone off her car again.  I had no music, all the way to the market.  Let me find a garage for it?
I've told you:  I can't afford to garage it.
Are you kidding?  You buy enough gourmet junk every week... most of which rots... to garage a fleet of stretch limos.
I had the dream again.  And I got another call.  This time he spoke.  He said "You and me, you and me."
A little heavy breathing is what most of us yearn for.  Forget it.
He whispered, but it was him!  I know it was him!
He can't phone you unless the warden gets an okay from you.  Did you give him an approval?
Andy?  When a three-year-old says there's a monster under the bed, you don't say 'forget it'.  You look under the bad.  I'm three years old.  Call the prison.
Oh God.  I'm really crazy.
When was the last time you washed your hair?
 Monsieur Andy, disapproves of my coiffure?
Monsieur Andy can smell your coiffure.  And guess what else?
Cellulite.  What do you say I blindfold you and take you to the gym.  Aerobics with housewives...
Andy?
Here we go again.
You parked right behind him.  The one I noticed earlier.  I didn't say anything, I thought he'd leave. Just take a look.
Oh my God!  Help!  HE'S READING A NEWSPAPER!
But earlier, he was staring up here.  Please, Andy.
Okay.  You win.  'Dirty Harry' coming up.
Excuse me, but would you mind explaining why you're watching the lady upstairs?
None of your fucking business.
Listen, asshole, I've got a gun...
I hate this...
Only kidding!
I'm calling the police!
Investigators Halloran and Goetz.  I apologize for Goetz, he's a firehouse dog.
 I'm okay.  I really kind of enjoyed it.
 Ring the gong, he goes.  Poor impulse control.
Is he out?
Who?
 If he's not out, why are they here?
Because of your phone calls.
What calls?  I haven't made any calls.
 Are you staying long?  Shall I shut the door?  Make your coffee?  Make the beds?
 You talked to me.  Do you remember?
You were the one that talked about moonbikes and called me a crank? Oh God, I am!  Make them some coffee.  Halloran, is it?  Investigator Goetz?  I had a crank call myself-- he said... (a moment of real fear) I thought it might be Daryll Lee Cullum.  I thought he might be out of prison.
Daryll Lee Cullum?  I don't think so.  If he's escaped we'd have the National Guard, cops'd be crawling through sewers.  You'd have a guard on your front door.
 I want to tell you it's a great honor to meet you and talk to you.
You don't admire me.  No police admire me.  I got one of you killed.  Why don't you say right out what you're here for?
You called us, Doctor Hudson.
Yes, I did.  Poor impulse control. The accounts of the firs two murders made it so clear they were the work of the same man, but you kept announcing they were unrelated.  You'll never catch him that way.
 Sugar and cream for Goetz; I take mine black.  You're absolutely correct.  The politicians don't want panic headlines spoiling the Festival of Love.
Well, let's thank God you and Inspector Goetz are on the case, then.
Would you want to work with us on this?
Oh, my God, no!  I'm a clinical hysteric, with panic syndrome, and anxiety neurosis, agoraphobic, I'm afraid of everything, real and imaginary.  I never leave this apartment now.  Nobody ever comes here.  I just wanted to get your attention.  I write and I used to lecture on these crimes, but... I'm not competent.
I think you are.  I really admire everything you've done; it would be an honor to work with you, and we need all the help we can get, especially yours.
Inspector Halloran, that is so much bullshit, you don't like or admire me, but the beautiful part is I don't give a fuck.  That's the upside of having a breakdown.
Well, it's a hell of an apartment you got here.  I'm living one step away from the projects, myself, but I get to go to work every day, wading in blood and guts.  I guess the books you wrote about these sons of bitches paid off pretty good.
Will you go.  Andy, make them go.
You can't go out lecturing?  Tough shit.  Women are dying.  Where can I lay this stuff out?
I don't want this.  What are they?
You called us, Doctor, if you don't want to look at them here, how about downtown.  I'll drive you down...
 Now look what you did.
What did I do?
You threatened to drive her downtown.  She has agoraphobia.
Fear of what...
Open space.  She hasn't been out of this apartment in three years.  I didn't used to think it was real...
We'll get the paramedics...
Oh, God, uniforms, more stress. Let her sleep.  It's a self-limiting: she hyperventilates till she passes out, then her breathing goes back to normal, and she wakes up singing like a lark. (rocking the unconscious Helen) We know, don't we, Princess?  Give her a couple of hours.  I know about this.
Tell her we're sorry we bothered her.
Hey, no.  Leave those here.  If you really want her help.  I mean if you really do, leave them.  Let her see them.  I'll see they're safe...
Tell her to ask for me...
Snotty neurotic bitch...
 Classy madonna.
Sure.  She likes you, Rube.  She likes the way you move.  She sure as hell isn't in love with me.
You came in there with this attitude...
 Order Chinese for us and meet me the library?  Anything but beef.
Shit...
... it was your feeling after careful evaluation that he was a sexual sadist who satisfied at least four out of ten criteria in the DMS III?
Yes.  Without question.
Without question?  He only scored 40 percent, four out of ten criteria?  Couldn't another expert say he flunked the sexual sadist test?  What curve are you marking on, Doctor?
The test criteria are only part of what we look at in evaluating subjects.
Only part.  What else?  What did you think of his claim that he tied this girl to the tree and set fire to her because Joan of Arc told him to do it.
He was lying.
'Lying.  He was lying.'  I asked you what you thought, not what he did.
I thought he was lying.
You said, first, he was lying.  How do you know that, Doctor?
Because people who are suffering from aural hallucinations hear voices in both ears.  Daryll Lee told me that Joan of Arc always appeared beside him on his left side and spoke softly in his left ear.
 He took pains to hide his actions because he knew they were morally wrong.  He was not acting on mad impulse.  He was sane and acting out a pattern he carefully followed every time.
 What pattern was that?
The same as the first time...
The first what?  Your Honor, she's got this far, I think she should finish.  I don't think this jury should be left wondering where the rest of her statement would lead.
I agree, Doctor.
The first two murders.
What first two murders.  We don't know about them here, do we?
 He told me he had done two others just like it.
When was that?
When he was seventeen.
And you believed him when he told you he had done that.
Yes.  I believed him.
Yes, I'll accept a call for a mistrial.  Evidence of that other crime when the defendant was a juvenile is inadmissible and never should have been heard by this jury...
There was no sperm.
The same as the firs two. Definitely a serial.
 What are you looking at that for? Helen Hudson.  Work the clues.
What clues?  I'm going to work Helen Hudson.
Would you step outside, Sergeant?
I'm telling you.  Don't you ever address me publicly in that tone. You'll work what and who I tell you to work.
Anybody in this department ever worked a serial killer case?  She's the expert.  I need help.
How about I put Nikko on it?
That's always your privilege, sir.
Sergeant?
Yessir.
You ever reflect how this big explosion in dead women coincides with the flowering of women's lib?
Yessir.  I have reflected on that, sir.  Which explains my gushing deference to you, sir.
Nikko's looking better by the minute, Inspector.
Oh, God.  I must have looked horrible.
No, dear.  You're at your best with a bag in front of your face.
I want to die.
I wouldn't.  He'll be back.  If you want him.  The cute brutal type with handcuffs.  Very sexy.
You thought he was cute too, didn't you?  Admit... admit...
What?  What'd I do?
Reminded me that I used to be attractive.  That men used to want me...
You slut!  No sexy young cop for you unless you shampoo your hair.
When are you going to call them?
 About what?
I can't, Andy.
Then, why don't you just die.  I'm going.  They'll find your body years later, the old recluse lady, she ate cat food, ten years of the New York Times, unread, piled on top of the unread mail, the TV still on.  Make up your mind.  Live or die.  I'll get coffee.
Yes?  Inspector Halloran, she's going through the material now.  She'll call you... No, she'll be alright, I'll sleep over on the couch in case.  But now, I told you, singing like a lark.
Working late.  You're a damn fool.
 Oh, I know.
"HUDSON VICTIM OF BLOODY ATTACK.  BODYGUARD SLAIN!"
You're almost ten years older than he is.
It's none of my business anymore...
You got that right, Nikko, it's none of your business.
You're shitting ion your career.  You outrank hi...
Well, you outranked me, Nikko.
Yeah.  And you used that. Used me
Don't put yourself down like that. I never used you.  I worked my way up like a marine grunt!
Yeah, you did that too.  You earned what you got; don't shit on it, that's all I'm saying.
 God, you're cute when you're mad.
Think about it.
What's wrong with him?
He's just mad he let me keep the espresso machine.  We heard from Doctor Hudson?
Nada.  Lemme make the call.
Honest to God, Ruben!
I like women like that!
Tell it to your shrink.
The way he's posed the bodies... he's flaunting his power to do whatever he wants to her.  This man... He probably seems perfectly normal.  These murders are organized and planned.
Except for this one.  You put that one in to test me.
Is it an ongoing case?
 For months... last October.
It was a lover or a husband. Someone close.  Somebody who knew her and cared about her.
 How do you know that?
He felt remorse.  He covered her.
The bodies have been carefully arranged... different positions, but somehow the same.  The positions are brutal... yet quite... artful.  It's like... a signature.  He's proud of his accomplishments.  There are early Picassos and late Picassos, but you always recognize the hand.  He wants us to recognize his hand. I've seen this hand before... what are you hiding?
 Nothing.
Where are the stockings he strangled them with?
How did you know they were stockings?
 I sent Andy out on murder missions. For God's sake -- it's the Boston Strangler, Alber deSalvo.  He used their own stockings to strangle them.  Tied in a bow-knot.
Somebody is imitating his m.o. Look for a plumber or carpenter or handyman; that's how deSalvo got in the door and caught them off guard.
The Boston Strangler, when was that...?
In the sixties.  He's dead -- stabbed to death in prison.
Why imitate a dead serial killer?
If you knew why, you might know where to look for him. I don't envy you this; he's not done -- he's going to do them faster and faster to keep the adrenaline rush.  Now, I've done what you asked me.
Work with me.
It's good for you.
It's good medicine.
A little homeopathic cure for the willies.
 None of you know anything about it. Now go.  And Andy, if you persist in playing doctor, leave, with them.
I'm the only friend you've got, darling, and I don't intend to stop doing what I think is good for us.
Get out!  All of you!
You said you don't give a fuck and that's the beauty of a breakdown? This doesn't look like not giving a fuck, you know that?
Let's get out of here...
 Andy!  Please.  Don't you go!
Aw, Jesus.  The Mouth gets a load of this and we got major headlines around the world.  deSalvo redux. The matter, you think they don't teach Latin in Catholic schools?
Don't swear at me because we got problems.  I'm just giving you the news.  I went to a Catholic school; I'll tell you what they teach.  On the knuckles they teach.
Who've I got to beat up except the messenger?  Does this give us anything to go on?
I'm checking out anybody who lives like DeSalvo.  Records of arrests for rape, especially by a man wearing green.  Checking out psychiatric hospitals for his personality profile.  Cross check- ing names from arrests for sexual offenses, public fondling.  If they've got a German wife.  We can keep cops working on this kind of junk for years, and this guy's going to hit again, soon.
 I know.  Get out here.
So.  Do we tell the media and hope for somebody to come forward with information?
Or for some new nutcase to copycat the copycat.
What I love, the big fight, some girl, she drops the quarter on her boyfriend so the bastard spends the night in custody, just to teach him a lesson.  We'll get a shitload of those.
Another country heard from.  No.  We're keeping it quiet, don't give the bastard the attention he's maybe begging for.
She's in the office...
That's the face of the next one he'll kill.
How do you know that?
 Look at the bottom of the screen. You see the icon with the arrow pointing left?  Click on that... twice.
maneuvers the mouse and clicks on the icon as instructed. NOW THE ANIMATED COLLAGE PLAYS BACKWARD!  IN TENTH OF A SECOND STEPS WE SEE THE IMAGE OF THE RED-HEADED WOMAN MERGE BACKWARD THROUGH THE DISTORTED IMAGES AND BECOME
How did you do that?
That computer's wired into INTERNET.
He's hacked into her Internet address.  He's a hacker.
 He can get into my computer any time he likes!  This is exactly the kind of thing I didn't want to have happen.
Can you make a copy we can show on our computers?
It's too big a file to copy to a disk.
You got a tape backup, yeah, here lemme copy it on tape...
Why would he send this to Helen Hudson...
It's a game they like to play. Berkowitz -- "Son of Sam" -- hung around the crime scene, talking to the cops.  This one's probably watching you, laughing at you.
Let me get a little action started here.
I'm going to put a guard on your door.
One officer already got killed trying to protect me.  Please, just take it all away.  Leave me alone.
He won't.
Look at this...
It's gone.  The file's not here.  What did you do?
I just started it copying to tape, but the tape never ran.  It just did that...
 He's brilliant.  This one is brilliant.
We'll show that to...
Show what?  It's gone.  He wrote a self destruct virus into the code, so it would only play until we try to copy it.  Then it erased itself. Gone...  Do you remember what you saw?
He's on the phone calling me like an insurance salesman soliciting my business, for Christ's sake.  I didn't tell him the three most over-rated things in life are young pussy, regular exercise and the F.B.I.
Oh, maaaaan?!
What?  I talk like a cop, this is the way I talk.  I can't believe this guy.  Saks.  He's a Deputy Assistant Director of the F.B.I. "Let me help you!"
We could use a little help.
With the F.B.I. there's no such thing as a little help.  They bury you with help.  Explain to me about this virus, no don't tell me about the virus.  Thing is, you saw it, the pictures.
We saw it.  The unknown target is kneeling, she's gardening.  Red hair, high cheekbones, mid- thirties, height I don't know, she's not overweight, she's zofting... She's in front of a house that looks like...
... the Marina area, there was earthquake damage repair on the house it looked like, a little garden.  The light was late afternoon.  Say about cocktail hour.  He was bringing out drinks, margaritas by the look.  So we got a house facing west, on the east side of the street.  Full sun, so there's no high trees or buildings, residential both sides.
Stupid goddam s-stupid p-poker game!  Always have to s-stay until Phil makes a c...comeback.  Am I stuttering?
She just got to sleep.  Do you have to tell her about it now?
Tell her about what?
 Gaahhd!  What a cop!  You busted me!  The new one, in the Marina.  She has a police radio scanner. It's always on.  She turns it off, and then she has to turn it on again.  She's obsessed.  She can't not listen to it, but she can't listen to it, so she makes me listen to it.
I am not going to look at any more pictures.  They're like a disease. They get into my head.  I can't get them out.
I don't look at pictures.  I look at the real thing.  I don't feel infected.
Maybe that's why you can't catch him.  I know what she looks like -- the red-headed woman in my computer.
I just came from her... here's what you haven't seen.
A forgery of the Mary Sullivan murder scene, he's done it perfect. Except for the sign.
 She probably let him in the door without a thought.  Where are their mothers?!  Where are the mothers that are supposed to teach them to be wary and to tough and not afraid to fight?
Look at the sign.  'Hell'?  In the Festival of Love?  You make any sense in that?
For 'Hell', read 'Helen'.  He's talking to you.
It's anybody connected to author- ity.  They write, they even knock on your door.  They're fans.  It thrills them to flirt with getting caught.
Nobody knows you have anything to do with this case; nothing has been on TV or the news... Why would he want to get in your computer?
Because I'm his damned pin-up girl! His, all of them!  They know me. They're in prisons with libraries, they collect clippings, I'm their worthy opponent.  You keep my name out of this.
Absolutely.
My promise.
The moon is up, my night to howl. Will you be okay?
Oh, God, I forget.  Yes.  Yes.  You go.  Poor thing, you ought to get out.
 Look out for her.  She's tougher than you think.
I know 'Halloran.'  What's the rest of it?
MaryJane.  We call her M.J.
MaryJane.  You think that logic and police procedure, order and science and method will hold back the horrors of a world gone mad and the sickness of the night.  I did once. But you know how he'll get caught? He'll have an accident, or some cop will get lucky.  You can't catch him by being intelligent and working hard.  Or the worst:  there are dozens of women slaughtered in the most horrible way, month after month.  The news stories grow more grotesque and bizarre and in the city people lock their doors and windows, and hurry home before dark.  And then, one day, there are no more.  What happened?  Did he just stop?  Get tired and disgusted and decide not to kill any more? Did he kill himself?  Did he die in an auto accident?  Or a fight.  Or get sick and die?  It's like the murderer walked off the edge of the earth.  And you never know.  But you keep asking yourself -- when you read about a new murder -- is he back?
That's amazing.  A whole new book, thought up in a minute.  Very good.  All I know how t do is get up, take a shower, and go to work. Hope, if he does another I'll nail the son of bitch, and they'll spell my name right in the newspaper. Where is Andy going?
He's going home.  He slept over because I was a little anxious...
I want a guard on you.  I'm worried about leaving you alone.
 We're through for the night, aren't we?  You go on.  Get some sleep. I'll stay until we can get a man out here and maybe catch a cab home.
That would be much appreciated. Thanks.
 Somewhere down the line we're doing to find a connection between him and you.  I want you to worry that idea like a loose tooth.
You ought to get some decent locks on these.  A six-year-old could get in here.  Much less a motivated man.
HELEN You and MaryJane aren't lovers.
Not yet.
Are you always so bold?
No.  I'm shy and I'm selective.
The problem for me is... you're in the witness category. (beat -- Jack Nicholson) Know what I mean?
Well.  Another time, then.  I'll be all right.  He's not going to attack me; what I' m rally afraid of is all in my own head, Ruben.
They'll have a guard here tomorrow. I know you have the idea, but it'll make me feel a lot better.
Hey!
The number for my cellular.
Don't hesitate.  Anytime.  Night or day.  I mean that.
Oh, God!  Help me!
Tell me what to do!
I'm falling!  I'm going to fall!
...falling... FALLING!
I'm right here.  I won't let you fall.
Don't let go... I can't breathe... I'll die!
Shhh.  It's okay.  Just breathe. I'll fix it...
Put your hands over your ears.
The lock...
I'll get a locksmith.
Will you stay?  Please?  I'm afraid to sleep... I don't want...him...in my head...
Put in the Kevin Costner.
Why don't we save it for later? It's almost time for Letterman.
You know I don't like to watch talk shows by myself.  Where're you?
See, now you've annoyed her.  You know she doesn't like you to touch me.  Does she, widdle wee fing!  Wuhve you so much!  Did you feed her?
Yes, I fed her.  If she says she's hungry, she's lying to you.  Again.
She doesn't lie!  You sure you fed her?
She lies all the time.  Why would I say I fed her if I didn't?
That's what I don't know.  Why would you lie?  That's the problem... I can't understand why anyone would lie.
You wouldn't lie to Mummy, would you?  Just to get Dad in trouble? Such a naughty widdle dog...
Didn't I promise I'd come right back?
Up all night with a sick friend.
You dumb son of a bitch!  You don't even know how to treat a woman.
Who?  M.J.?  Hey, Nikko, explain to me why she gave you the boot...
Is Niccoletti assigned here?
 Quinn decided we should form a task force -- they're all one case, now. He wants all the senior detectives on it...  She wasn't killed here.
Not likely.
Tell me what you see.
She didn't fight back, no hair or skin under her fingernails.  I'm not seeing any bruises or contusions...
What about her arms?
Needle marks, fresh, here.  look at this...
Probably so stoned she never knew what got her.  Like Goetz's sick friend.  Right Goetz?
She's blue as hell.  No marks on her neck.  Asphyxiated?  not the same -- no ligature marks.  Outdoors...
Look at her legs.
Spread out like she was sexually assaulted here.
After she was dead.
She was dragged up here from the road, you can see the tracks.  She was already dead or unconscious. Let's get plaster casts on any -- all footprints.
If this is just the dump site, where did he do the job?  Where did he pick her up?
Doped up kids all over town.  Park was full of them last night.  Very easy pickin'.  Goetz's type.
What the hell are you doing?  The Mouth and the Haircut are right down there, thank God they didn't see that.
Niccoletti, they're on the wrong side of the tape, you want to push them back?  Now.
Ruben, my God, I ought to put you on report.
You're right.  I can't stand that bastard.  Sorry. (getting back to work) This is something new.  Not the same guy, that's for sure.
Yeah, everything's different.
Get the pictures, and casts of footprints.
Look at him, grandstanding...
That's all we need...
Detective Niccoletti?
What's this about the Boston Strangler, M.J.?
Hey, Susan -- I'm sorry, you're on the wrong side of the tape.  We're still trying to find any footprints or tire marks and we don't want to chew up the ground, okay?  I'll talk to you later.  You, too.
Inspector, will you confirm somebody is copying the Boston Strangler?  This is the fourth, is that correct?
We're going to review all the evidence carefully before making any statement...
Ruben, put the light on...
Now listen up, Ruben.  You never, never, never mess with somebody inside the case!
Excuse me?  Excuse me?!  What do you...
You damn well better start working on that impulse control.  A woman who is implicated in this case? Someone who's practically a piece of evidence?
It's against your rules that I try to help a witness who's scared shitless?  Who's...
The woman's unstable.  You could wind up with a harassment charge. Anything.  You're like some horny little teenager.
Anybody who's ever watched TV knows about that corner.
Everybody could see you -- unshaved, same clothes from yesterday, reeking of sex.
 Park the car.  Call the lab.  Get Doc to lean on the coroner for a really fast prelim on the sperm.
When you get it, call me.
She loves me.
I know; the kid hit you first.  He already told me.
He's not treating her right...
She left you, Nikko.  She's not your responsibility.  She takes very good care of herself.  If she wants to romance the kid, it ain't your business.  Your business is to snap out of it.
We were together six years, sir!
Don't give me six years!  You never divorced Patty, did you?  So what'd you expect from M.J.?
She knows I'm Catholic!  She never mentioned divorce!  Not once!
Then you shoulda known she wasn't buying.  She was just long-term leasing' you.  Ah, Nickie.  Except for that rare twenty-second twitch, there ain't nothin' about sex I don't hate. But of course, I'm Irish.  Plus I got real problems.  I'm worried I might have to put you in over M.J.  There's something going on here, the Commissioner is targeting her now, I can't leave a woman in that position.  But the thing is, how can I move you in, if you go on acting like a teenage asshole?
I don't want the job.  Don't do that to her.  She's worked too damned hard for it.
What's going down with the sting in Chinatown?  That gonna be off your plate in a week or what?
Sergeant...
So what have we got?
It's not the same guy.  It should be a self-solver.  No bow around the neck, left and body outdoors, completely different.  The others were housewives, secretaries, he talked his way inside, killed them in their own living room or bed- or bathroom.  This one didn't have a husband or a boyfriend, no family, temp waitress, 3 arrests for misdemeanor dope offenses, DUI, asphyxiation probably from a plastic bag over her head.  Sexually assaulted.  The others weren't molested that way.  We're waiting for the sperm tests...
Christ.  How old are you?  You sure you want to be in this line of work?
You're damn right I do.
Okay, now what about your sidekick punching my favorite detective? What the hell is going on?  You got no discipline in your operation.
I'm sorry it had to come to your attention.  I am dealing with it.
Where you going?
Helen Hudson...
What the hell you need her for?
Because I think I'm wrong.
I'm not seeing anybody.
You're fired.
I know.  Do come and meet your guest.
We've got another one.
That's no surprise.
But it's a different m.o.
Then what do you need me for?
She was killed somewhere else and dumped outdoors in an empty lot. Where it says "no dumping."  Her legs pulled apart in a kind of sexual pose.   It's all different but it seems so -- the same. Artificial and posed... Something's wrong with it.
You're saying it's the same man, but he's changed his style?  That doesn't happen.  These men are robotic; the murder is like a ritual.  The method itself is part of the pleasure...
Who turned off the Internet computer...
I turned it off.  It's like an open window he can climb right in...
He comes in the window, we maybe grab him.  Where's the on-switch?
Have you got a warrant?  Get the hell out o here!  This is the only space I have left in the world!  Why can't you leave me out of it?
Helen -- the killer directly contacted you.  His interest in you is intense.  I'm worried about you. I don't want to lose you.  I know this stirs up every monster under the bed, but this is the only direct contact we have with him. The only chance we have to trap him.  So, you can turn Internet back on, or I do, and we put somebody here on a 24 hour shift and you can kick, scream and hyperventilate.
That little Winona Ryder manner... you're more convincing as Clint Eastwood.
Clint is putting a guard on you. But if you swear to leave the computer on, Winona will assign him to the hall outside.
She's smoking again.
Hello?... Oh...  ...yes, she's right here.
Ruben.
Hello, Ruben...  So that's that...
Please thank Inspector Goetz for taking care of me last night.
Ruben, Dr. Hudson wants me to thank you for taking care of her last night.  Lab report on the new one.  At least two guys penetrated her. There were two kinds of sperm.  The poor thing.  What it must have been like.
She was near a sign that said "No Dumping?"  Two kinds of sperm -- the lab said one was a secretor and the other was not?
There were needle marks.  But no drugs in her blood.
So far nothing they test for comes up positive.
Is that it?
 That's exactly... I could have taken that same picture, this morning.
He's switched from DeSalvo to the Hillside Strangler.  The Strangler was two men, that's why there are two kinds of sperm.  His idea of a joke, very witty our boy.
That's not consistent... You said they never changed their style, they're robots...
Consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds.  Tell them to test for the chemicals found in Windex. That's a product for cleaning with...
I know Windex, for God's sake, I clean my own windows...
It's what Bianchi and Buono injected into one of their victims.
 Injected Windex!  Why would he switch to a new m.o.?
Ah, if you knew that, you'd be half way to nailing him.  Serial killing is irrational and rigid and compulsive.  This guy has a plan all thought out, flexible and complex.  He's playing a game with us.  Who will he imitate next? Maybe he's doing all the serial killers in history, the great innovators, the murderers' hall of fame.  Just to prove he's better than all of them.  They got caught; he didn't.
He'll get caught.  If he has a plan that'll be what trips him up...
Who's going to catch him?  You?  And if you do, there'll be another one.  And one after that.
 You're afraid of him.
This one, yes.  I was always curious about these twisted little souls, but this is the first one I've felt personally terrified of. He's something new and unheard of. I don't know what he wants.
 I'm giving you Clint outside.
...to mimic the M.O. of the Boston Strangler.  The police here are rumored to be consulting Dr. Helen Hudson.
It was backstage at the McClusky Auditorium on the Berkeley campus that Dr. Hudson's police bodyguard was killed.  Daryll Lee Cullum, that...
... convicted serial killer had escaped police custody during a court hearing, in a scandal that rocked the police and forced the resignation of four State Correction officers...
...Cullum attacked Doctor Hudson in apparent revenge for her testimony against him.  Doctor Hudson did not return our phone calls, today.  Our sources tell us that if police homicide detectives fail to move faster in their investigation the FBI will be called...
Halloran.
You betrayed me!  Now every psychopath in the city knows I'm back in business... You lied to me!
I did not; the Mouth -- that's what we call Susan Schiffer -- got it on her own.
Why should I trust you?
Because I'm all you've got.
How could you...
 I like the real smart Helen Hudson a lot, I'm Goddamned sick and tired of the hysterical little girl, Helen.  You asked your way in -- I don't forget that.  You've got a nickname around here -- "Deep Throat" from all the phone calls, I wonder if you know that.  Go take a xanax, I've got to got to work.
987...  Carol Meany, call your home?  We have...  don't step on me, damn it!  Go to channel 8... Code Red -- Homicide at 16th Avenue and Horgan, woman dead in car.  Can we have homicide?  All units go to channel 5.  Leave channel 3 clear for homicide... etc.
Pulled this out of the door, it's bigger than a .38; it's a .44 or 9 millimeter.
Was this on?  When you found the car was the tape player on or off.
It was on, auto-reverse, over and over.
Yeah?... I can't talk now... What?... No.  There's no sexual assault, it's a drive-by, a woman in a car, it's not him.  Helen.
It's a woman shot in a car?
Yes.  I have to go...
She on the passenger side?
 Helen, hang up, let Ruben get on with his work...
What's that music.  It's Abba.  I can hear it.  It's Abba.
What's Abba?
Bunch of Swedish women.  You're too young.
Don't hang up!
What?...
Listen to me.  Is there a gas station nearby?
Yes.
Is there a phone booth there?
They all have one...
Go and look for a note.
She wants me to check the phone booth for a note.
Helen... excuse me, we...
She was listening to Abba in her parked car when she was shot with a Bulldog .44.
Tony!
Let me see the slug outta the door!
What's that siren?
One of those goddamned car alarms. What's going...
Ruben's gone to look... It's banged up but it looks like a .44.  It's Son of Sam.  Is it Son of Sam?
Look in the crowd.  He liked to hang around and watch the cops at work...
"Police: let me haunt you with these words:  I'll be back."
Hold on a minute, Helen...
Helen, Ruben's going to drop by. He's got some questions.
Answer me!!...
I need a unit at 19809 Lorenda Drive.  Tell them to approach code 2 and wait for instruction.  Find the goddamn officer supposed to be on security.  Ruben's on his way. He'll go in alone.
I can explain!
The fuck you can!  Helen!  Are you okay?  HELEN!
Did this animal touch you?
Turn on a light and call in the unit.  NOW!
No gun!
Bullshit's gonna get your balls stomped on!  What's your name?
Chow.  Conrad Chow.
Swear to God!  Conrad Chow.  Never carry a gun.
Backup's here...
 Then you get your ass outta here, I don't wanta see you again...
I brought a present for the lady, there.  I'm looking for her, to give her the present...
You break into her apartment to deliver a gift?  Where is it?
The door was open, swear to God, I'm just looking for her when you come charging up the stairs...
Where is it?
I'm trying to tell you.  It's on the lady's pillow...
Daryll Lee Cullum, he wrote that book, he wanted the lady to have it.  They won't let him send it to her, so I'm getting out, he asks me to deliver it in person, he says, put it on her pillow.  It has all about how he tried to kill her.
He told you she was loaded, any- thing you could steal you could keep, Conrad?  You bought yourself a return ticket to Quentin, breaking and entering.
The door was already open...
We know...  Send the book to evidence...
She's supposed to have it.
She don't want it.
Helen?  Open the door.  The guy's nothing.  A burglar.
Open the door.  Please.
Why don't you shoot off the lock?
He was in my apartment!
I know, baby.  I know.
It's okay... you're safe with me!
When I was a little kid, and I'd be in a state, my father would hold me on his lap, until all the fight would go out of me...
You think you're my Daddy?
Helen...honey, you know I gotta go.
You know how to use this?
They taught me at the FBI.  I was very good at it.  It scared me... I liked it.
You take it, hang on to it, it'll make you feel safer.  Stay put.
What else?
Hello.  I am Meryhew Saks.  The song is called "Murder By Numbers."  The performers are a group called The Police.  Adam here... ... from Behavioral Science is working out exactly what this perpetrator is trying to telegraph in the note.  This is an extremely complex case, and we have a lot of fancy theories floating around. We're not ruling out the possib- ility of three Copycat serial killers.  We have Quantico working on graphology, the Washington lap is cloning DNA from the secretor. It's our feeling that the best lead we have is the two sperm samples in one of the victims.  We have a team sweeping sperm banks.  Now I want to say a few word to you local people.  Your Commissioner asked for our assistance.  The Bureau does not send us in on these cases to lord it over the local police. We couldn't catch up on what you people know if we had a year.  We have nation-wide resources and hard state of the art forensic science; you have the local savvy.  Together we can be unbeatable.  Which one is Inspector Halloran?
Over here.
We don't see too many lady homicide detectives.  You have my respect. Have you discussed the note with Dr. Hudson?
Someone broke into her place last night.  It wasn't connected to our case, but it shook her up pretty bad so I haven't...
I was just about to advise the Inspector here not to show Dr. Hudson the note.
Sir, Doctor Hudson and I see a pattern develop...
 We know Helen.  She's not exactly a credible collaborator.  Especially late in the day...
She takes tranquilizers her doctor prescribes.
Who prescribes the brandy?
How come you're so up on Dr. Hudson?
She is a writer, writing best selling books about serial killing. Giving lectures she's well-paid for.  Her interests are not the interests of law enforcement.
Okay.
We've put a tap on Dr. Hudson's phone.  I know you won't mention it.
Sorry to interrupt.  I need a word with my officer...
M.J., I'm going to have to borrow Ruben.  The alien-smuggling thing in Chinatown is going down tomorrow night and Jack's kid got hit by a car.  I gotta give Ruben to Nikko.
What does this mean?  Now we got the FBI, my team is expendable? I'm working my ass off, is anybody listening?  Why Ruben, anyway?  He and Nikko don't even get on together...
Teach both of them a lesson in cooperation and self-discipline.
If this is a first step in kicking me off the case, just tell me, to my face, sir, don't waste time being diplomatic.
Just, I need results.  And -- I am short-handed.  Who else am I gonna give him?
 Give him thatpompous son of a bitch.
Lab called.  They got a result on the drug test you requested...?
They said it was Windex?
..."I'll be back..."
Yeah.  Addressed to you.  "Don't lose your head."
They put  Merry Saks on it?!
He said to send you his regards and to tell you that the Bureau holds you in the highest esteem.
What I can't believe is that in an earlier life I slept with him! Christ!  Any God that loved his people would give women a rewind on their life and an erase button.  Just give me a minute here.  The letter is addressed to me... (she's breathing fast, controls it) You don't feel fear, do you? You're young.  You feel like you'll live forever.  How wonderful.
I put my ass on the line, giving you that.
They weren't going to show it to me?!  The arrogance!  It's my life!
It's also the major piece of evidence, and it makes you a key part of his plan.  You can't run away from it anymore.  Look at the order he's doing them... He did three as the Boston Strangler just to tell us a copycat serial killer was at work.  Then he did one like the Hillside Strang- ler.  And then one as Son of Sam. To lead us on -- to where and what end?  And he's doing more than that -- he's imitating each killer's method as closely as he can -- in details.  Injecting Windex.  Using .44.  Playing Abba.
It's not chronological: Son of Sam was before Hillside.
It's clear he thinks he knows me. He lives a fantasy.  'Helen, don't lose your head.'  Is that a threat? Does he want to cut off my head? Dahmer cut off heads.  Who else? Kemper.  Did Gacy?  Rivkind?  I think Rivkind did.
He attacks what he feels he can't have.  What he feels excluded from...
'First you make a stone of your heart.'... Oh yes!  He doesn't suffer.  That's past.  Now it's our turn.
Kemper said in order to have the experience he wanted with them, he needed to evict them from their bodies.  By making the body a completely passive object, he releases himself from passivity.
But the relief he feels is only temporary.  '...Before your conscience bothers you much less...'  But the tension always comes back. (she now picks out the words:) 'You can join the ranks of the illustrious...'  He wants to be like them.  The best.  To become the best.  But, he has his own desires, his own compulsions apart from theirs.'  His own horrors...
Some horrors that are all his own...
He needs to prove they don't control him, that he's the one in control.  But the feeling of power never lasts.  He can control his victims, but he can't control anything else... his place in the world.  He want s to be recognized. He puts messages in my computer; he sends me a letter...
Of course he wants to do a threesome!  Only Bundy did three in one day.  Is Bundy next?  But Bundy should be last... the grand finale. What about Kemper and Ramirez? Gacy, Dahmer, Williams?  Rivkind? Who else is on his list?  In what order?
'...great dark hall of fame... all our greatest killers...'  His greatest heroes?  He wants to be famous.  When they're caught and people like me write about them, we give them a kind of immortality. They get thousands of letters. Ramirez kills eight women and gets a hundred marriage proposals a month.  They're like film stars.
They get fan letters...
We keep records of any threatening or illegal correspondence, like relatives of victims who might want to send the condemned man some strychnine cookies.  So it's only a partial list, but you're still looking at about forty pages...
Would you fax those pages to me?
Thank you for your help, Warden Hillyer.  As soon as you can.
Hot off the fax.  Mr. Rivkind's fans.
If we keep going and work till midnight...
Sorry, Luv.  I've got a date.
You've got a date right here, Andy. This has got to...
It's almost six.  And guess what? Hall likes me bathed and shaved.
Stop acting like a silly little fag!
My life to live, darling, try to remember what it was like way, way back when you were young and sexy and alive.
You bastard!
But alive!
The dirty bastard!  More games!
It's not a real name: it's the name of a mass murderer in Germany in the 1930s.  They called him the Monster of Dusseldorf.
Let's speed up the game plan... call all the living serials to ask if they've had contact with a Peter Kurten.  We could use some help on the phones...
They're not talking to me.  Saks looks right through me.  I ask him for some bodies, for the phones -- he's so encouraging: "you make that your little job."  Condescending bastard.  Helen, on your lists to call is San Quentin.  Daryll Lee Cullum?
 You do that one, I don't want it...
Sergeant Halloran is it?  I've got a list of Daryll Lee's correspondents.  There is a Peter Kurten among them. Daryll Lee claims he has information about Kurten, but he'll only talk to Dr. Hudson personally.  Nobody else.  The creep's been studying his amendments.  My guess is he doesn't have zip.  Just angling for a chance to ask if her bra size is still the same.  We get this shit all the time, but it's her call.
Thanks, Warden.  She'll talk to him.
Do those things really help?
Not a damn bit...
Hey, Doc!  How you doing?
Hello, Daryll Lee.
You read my book which as you know, hit the stands a couple of weeks ago.  You read it yet.
What book?
 I sent it by private courier, he didn't give it to you?  That son of a gun...!
I'll look for it, Daryll Lee.
Bet you never figured I'd follow in your footsteps.  It's real well- written.  You should read it -- you're in it.
I will.  I'll call you, Daryll, and talk to you about it after I've read it.  Right now I have a question... Peter Kurten.
Kurten!  Is he bothering you?  I told that son I'd send him what he wanted if he leave you alone.
Ah ha.  What did he want?
Something personal.  Is he bothering you?
I don't know.  I'd like to know where he is.
Listen, you want my advice?  Steer clear.  He's writing me he's gonna finish 'my unfinished symphony.' He's gonna give me $550 for some of my cum, he says he's in a position to see that I will be immortal if he has some of my spunk.  I'm offended.  Right away I smell freak.  Writin' about him and me and you bein' joined and he's gonna finish my symphony?  I didn't care for his drift.  I sent some liquid soap in a sandwich baggie with a message from Jesus to mend his ways.  You hear I found Jesus?  And what's funny is, now I don't mind bein' inside.  If I was out, even Born Again, I'd probably get restless again.  It's maybe better I stay here, what do you think?
I think whatever is best for you, Daryll.  And maybe you're right, that's the place.
You come and visit.
Where did you send the message to Peter Kurten?
Damn!  I gave that to Conrad, too! That guy!  I told Conrad deliver to Kurten and keep the 500 bucks in return for getting my book to you.
How was Conrad supposed to find Kurten?
Conrad has the phone number. Conrad, where is he?
 In jail.
That Klutz.  They send him back here, I'll kick his ass good.
Helen, how is life, you okay?  Come see me, talk to me.  I think about you, worry about you all the time. I am so glad Jesus didn't let me kill you.  You know -- you're blessed by Jesus.  That's why you need to come talk to me, because Jesus kept you alive for a reason, and I was his sacred instrument... In the moment Satan was in my heart raising my hand to kill you, Jesus took my hand to spare you.  I am both death and life to you...
I brought back a gin-seng popper for you.  Guaranteed all-night orgasms.
Save it for Helen.
 Wait a minute, wait a goddamn minute...
The woman was in shock.  She was totally out on ranks.  I stayed because I didn't want her to wake up alone in a place where she'd just been under attack. (to the Kid who is restless) Stop that, you son of a bitch!  The place wasn't secure.  I was doing my goddamn job!  And, for the second time, I slept in her living room.
Don't try to lie, Ruben.  You don't have the face for it.  I need you to help interrogate the burglar in Hudson's place...
Talk to Nikko...!
You speak English?  You need an interpreter?
I didn't want the Illigals, I wanted just the bastards dumping them in the harbor.  What's keeping those bums at Immigration?  Nightmare in here...
I gotta have Ruben, and a...
Outta your mind?  Look at this...
 Lieutenant...?
The prowler in Hudson's apartment turns out to have a meeting with a suspect...
 You got a suspect...
How'd you get in on the deal?
I'm gonna drop charges on the break-and-enter at Hudson's...
You have no authority to make a deal like that.  That' s for the D.A...
Or the F.B.I.?
Saks.  If he knew you did that! They're all asking me, 'what is she doing,' as it is.
Give me Ruben back...
Nikko?
We get through this shit, let 'em all go.
I'll talk to Conrad myself.  I'll be in the jail when you wind this up...
I gotta get something to eat, I haven't eaten all day.
Here... I'm finished...
 I'm going to the coffee machine. Hold the fort.
Who are you?
Inspector Halloran.  Homicide. You were supposed to contact a Peter Kurten?
 I was?  How you spell that?
Cut the crap.  You got a sheet the length of my arm...
 I never hurt nobody...
Shut up -- I'm talking.  You got felony breaking and entering, burglary, felonious...
 I never carried a gun!
You don't listen very good.  This break in -- I can call it a felony -- three strikes, and you got about sixteen strikes already, and you're in jail for the rest of your life, no parole.  Or I could see it gets forgotten.
You get me out first.
Doesn't work that way.  You had your chance, now fuck yourself...
Tell me what you want me to say. Anything.
You were going to make a delivery to Peter Kurten for Daryll Lee Cullum.  I want Kurten's phone number.
I don't have it...
Wait... wait... I already called him, I threw it away.
You already made the delivery?
No, that's still in my jacket I was wearing.  We were supposed to meet on the docks, that number 47 wharf, 10 o'clock Friday.  He's gonna hand me 500 bucks.
What Friday?
What day is this?  In jail you lose track.  This week.  Friday.
Don't forget me, please.  I told you what you wanted -- don't forget me.
Behave.  You refuse my hospitality, I'm putting you to bed.
Take it easy, Kid.  Nobody's gonna do anything.  Just let the gun down, so it don't go off...
 Nobody comes through the door...
Hey, you...
I'm a juvenile!  I'm a juvenile!
Gigi!  Dock 47.  I need a couple units to drag the area...
Quinn will be here any minute.  What are you going to say?
Christ.  I didn't lock the fucking drawer!  You spend twenty years thinking some perp's gonna whack you... you'll crash your car... but what happens is, you fuck yourself...  You can't imagine how many times I saw you two... your head together, I wish him dead.  Every time... Want to hear something weird?  I feel like I'd give my life to bring him back.
You're in terrible trouble, Nikko.
Who gives a fuck?  In all the years I never seen you cry.  You loved him.
Who gives a fuck?
Nikko.  My office?  M.J., I wanna see you later.
 He's on temp leave with pay.  I talked the Commissioner out of no pay.
You want mine, too?  You take his, you take mine.  I'm the one fucked it up...
So I'm maybe gonna lose three good cops?  You fucked up on this occasion, but don't be so hard on yourself.  There's something I want you to think about.  The book says if you use your gun, use it to kill, that's what it's meant to do. You tried to pick this punk off with fancy shooting, to keep him alive.  To what end?  You're not willing to kill, you can't be a cop.  Go get drunk.  I am.
If yo dialed carefully you've reached your dream number.  Now, you know what to do. 
... their compulsion is less about sex than it is about control. Power.  Action.  Release from passivity.  Albert DeSalvo, Bianchi and Buono, Berkowitz, Dahmer... Dahmer killed his first victim because the boy just wanted to go home.  Bundy said he wanted to master life.  And death...
Peter Kurten!
You were right!  He knew me!  He went to my lectures.  He recorded them!  Listen to this...
...Action.  Release from passivity. Albert DeSalvo, Bianchi and Buono, Berkowitz, Dahmer... Dahmer killed his first victim because the boy just wanted to go home.  Bundy said he wanted to master life.  And death...
What happened to you?!
Ruben's dead.   So stupid, a cop thing, a crazy kid and a buncha dumb mistakes... I'm sorry... because you and he...
I just thought it was so -- unprofessional.  Of you both!
He felt sorry for me.  It was so nice to flirt.  He was a darling man.
A man?  I thought he was a boy.  This last Christmas was the happiest Christmas I had in the last ten years... you know why?  It was the first Christmas in six years I was not in love.  Son of a bitch married men!  Who cares about marriage, the bed just gets crowded and noisy?!
You're exhausted.  Let me get you a brandy.
Where's the john?  Let me clean up this mess, and get back to work.
Who's the married man?
What does it matter?  This guy, you checked your course records, who signed up?
The University computer is down for maintenance, but I've been going through my own notes...
 Look.  There's the order:  you wrote it:  DeSalvo, Bianchi & Buono, Berkowitz and Dahmer.  It's going to be Dahmer next.  Which means he'll kill a man.
Yes.  Dahmer!  And after that...
 Bundy.  That's the last one in your speech...
Maybe you should...
I'm working on it!  It's what I do.  Quinn...Halloran.  I'll wait.  Where's Andy, can we get some coffee in here?
 Out.  Where does he go?  Nowhere. What does he do?  Nothing.
I am not going to talk about it. How do you know it was Andy if the head was gone?  Where is the head? Are you looking for it?  Oh, God, why him?  Because of me.  I can't talk about it.  I write about things like this, stuff it all in books and bury it in libraries. This is the first person close to me who's ever died.  And it's because of me.  This monster killed him because I loved him.
I've got to go.  I've got to go.
How many do you need to sleep. Really sheep?
W-We had a fight.  I called him... called him a name...
Christ, Helen.  The first time, we're ahead of the son of a bitch! I can't leave you like this -- and there's no time.  Knock yourself out.
 Right.  Well.  He's going to do Bundy.  Bundy faked injuries, wore a plaster cast, or walked on crutches, and asked college girls for help -- carrying his books, pushing his car...
Like the others -- he'll pick the most extravagant murder -- Bundy's three murders in one night at a...
...Chi Omega sorority house.  Find out how many Chi Omegas there are on college campuses this area.
How far out?
Hundred mile radius.
What are the FBI doing?
They were combing Fertility clinics.
You want to get onto the DMV, we want records on all gold or yellow colored VW bugs, any year.  I want an in-person check on every registered owner.  If it's rental -- check rental first -- get names and location of who is driving one now.
Alert Campus Security on college campuses, all of them.  They should warn all female students with long straight dark hair parted exactly in the middle -- I'm serious! -- to avoid any strange male contacts and report any man with an apparent handicap who tries to get them to carry groceries or books, or push his car...
 That was Bundy.  He killed forty of them, identical, long hair, parted in the middle, alike as Barbie dolls.  ...this is hopeless.  Let's try to get time for a police spokesman to appear on college radio and TV hookups and broadcast a warning?
"Spokesperson."
What about auto body and paint shops; any recent VW bug repainted to gold or yellow?
You or us gonna do it?
Welcome to weekend gridlock on the Freeways!  Everybody heading for the mountains and or the sea,  "by the sea, by the sea, by the beautiful sea," and my-oh-my what a mess!  On 101 south of Burlington, we have a big rig over the side, blocking the on-ramp..." 
Any student name registered in Crime-Psych 137 matched to titles of term papers with any mention of 'Peter Kurten.'
Peter Foley.  Good God.  You poor sad little bore.  I failed you, is this what...?
Stop screaming!
For God's sake, stop -- my head!  I have the Iraqi mother of all hang- overs.  Very quiet in the hospital zone, please.
Where have you been?  What happened to your wallet?
Hal has it.
...then he gave me a popper and I started to feel really wild... all over the dance floor.  Then suddenly I was just s o stoned.  And sick?  I had to race for the john... horribly sick.  Over and over and over.  I was in there a very long time.  And when I came out they were gone.  So was my jacket which I'd tossed to Hal when I was dancing.  Hal was my... Could I have a glass of water?
Mister Saks.  We gotta Peter Foley, medical technician in a fertility clinic in Oakland.  We got a home address in Daly City.
 That's him.
Got him!
I called our SWAT Commander...  He's ours now... You come watch our boys in action...
 Well, thank you, too.
 Peter Foley, we are the police. Will you please come to your front door, and come out with your hands above your head...
I am here with Lieutenant Quinn of the Homicide Division and Saks of the FBI.  Can you tell us what happened here, tonight?
Susan, the San Francisco Police Department, assisted by the FBI, developed evidence that the serial killer, referred to as the Copycat killer was an individual who resided at this address.  Upon being asked to step out of the house to be interviewed, the suspect set fire to the house possibly to destroy evidence of his wife's murder.  We found her dead of gunshot wounds in an upstairs bedroom.  He himself died in the fire. (to shouted questions) No, we'll wait until we've located any relatives who should be notified.  Witnesses saw the individual burn to death, they were unable to reach him in time to save him.  We're glad, as the entire city must be glad, this reign of terror is ended.  No, no more at this time.  Thank you...
I heard. Good police work.
Just horseshit luck.
Don't ever forget how good you are.
I love you.
Halloran.
I don't believe it.
Helen.  I saw him die.  I saw him burning on the basement stairs, he never reached the top.
They never kill themselves.  How do you know it was him.  You never met him.  You never even saw a photograph...
Helen -- let go.  You've got to let go.
He hasn't done Bundy.  He's done every one of the others, hasn't he? If there are three dead Chi Omega college girls tomorrow, how will you feel?  Go there.  See if there could be any way for him to escape.
This has been the worst 48 hours of my life.  I'm going home.  I'm going to try to get drunk.
If there's a one percent possibil- ity, can you live with yourself when he kills again?
Oh, shut up, and don't be so damn self righteous.
...You're on the air, who's this...Ron, that's not my right name... that's okay, Ron. What are you afraid of?... I don't want anybody to know my name, because I'm a friend of Peter Foley?  I know him from the gay community?  He was cruising the night...
...that I resent the tone of the Police and their attitude?  That this is just some weird queer event, just because they couldn't stop this guy until he did himself, if you even believe that...
Goddamn it!  This is brand new! Where're you going?
No, you don't spill all over somebody and just walk away, you damn well pay the cleaning bill...
Police business -- take your heads off.
Bullshit!
Don't make me pull the gun...
Swallow the joint!  It's Barney Phyfe -- in drag!
 Where are you?
Hi.  It's your worst student, Peter Foley -- how do you grade me now, Doctor?
 Who was the man in the basement?
You like that action?  Didn't that cop on TV look solemn?  The guy in the basement doesn't matter, anyway, just another lonely heart.
Where are you, Peter?
You thought I was going to do Ted Bundy next, so you sent your partner...
What was that?  What am I hearing? The sound of an epiphany, a sudden blinding insight?
It's Daryll Lee Cullum, isn't it?
Mm-hmm.  I can't get to you.  You have to come to me.
You know I can't do that.
Oh, I think you will.
 Call the police!  Now!  Call Qui...
For God's sake Peter, leave her out of it.  You don't want her, you want me.
I need her; she's a cop.  I have to kill a cop, and then...
You've been perfect.  Don't spoil the symmetry -- you have to have a male cop.
I don't care -- she's a cop.  That's the important thing.  Cop-ness, not sex-ness.  It won't be perfect, but it'll be good.
 Call Quinn and Saks.
I'm tired.  I want it to end tonight, don't you?
Yes.  I do.  I want it to end now. Let her go.  I'll come -- just let her go.  She's not important.
You know where.
Where it began -- McCluskey Auditorium.
Time Zero-hundred and twenty -- two minutes and sixteen seconds June twelve 1994 Helen Hudson 415 320 1854 Court order Alpha Bravo 9765910...
It's all over, Fred.  They got the guy.  You go home to your own bed now.
I got to have that from my superior.  One guy fired off this job already.
Call in.  Use my phone.  They'll tell you -- it's all over.
Ma'am, please get out of your vehicle...
Merry, how... oh, Christ, of course, you had my phone tapped.
Just get out of your vehicle...
He's got Sergeant Halloran in there.  He'll kill her the minute he sees or hears your people...
You've been very useful, Doctor, we appreciate all you've done, and now the professional will take over...
He wants me, he doesn't care about her.  Let me...
Oh, man?!  Let us in there.
Go.  Go.  Go!
You cheated!  You said you'd come die with me.
Listen to them!  We'll be on all three channels.
Kill me, Peter, do it, now.
No.  Not yet.
Do it.  If that's what all this carnage is about, then do it.  Have enough guts to do it.
Don't talk to me about courage.  I know death, what it's like to kill. You're not a killer -- you watched Daryll Lee kill that cop and you didn't make a peep, because you were paralyzed with fear.  You chocked.  I know something else about you.
You want one?  No?  There was something in you that was fascinated, that wanted to see what it was like for a man to die. Everybody feels it.  Like every person who slows to see a bad accident, or runs to see a fire. That's true.  I see it in you... you're the same as me.
Oh, no.
We'll keep talking.  Until they get here.  Then... 
I have no life anymore.  I ruined your life, make me pay for it.
Why did you do that?  Didn't you have any idea how hard it was for me, to get that far?  I worshipped you.  You inspired me.  I thought you could understand me the way you understood the others.  I knew that about you -- the ones you admired were the great murderers; they fascinated you.
That's not who I admire -- I admire people who are good at what they do, great artists, writers, thinkers...
I don't have the talent for any of those things.  All I have a talent for is death.  And I am one of a kind.  What do you think of your student now?  I have made you famous, I am your creation and your monument.
If you let me, I can make you more famous than any of them.
Oh, please.  I know what's coming, now.  "Let me help you..."
Do anything you want to me.  I give myself to you.  Only put the knife down.  Isn't this what you always wanted?  I know it's what we all want, to love and to loved.  I could love you.  You could work together in some safe place, learn to really understand you, help you, give you some peace of mind, some happiness...
Back in the driver's seat again, Doctor?  That old dream -- study us to see what makes us sick.  So you can find a cure -- they'd name it after you?  Death is the only cure for people like me.
Do it.  For God's sake, now...
 You hurt me!
Jesus that hurts.  You think the rib is busted?
That looks like just a bad bruise. I'll tape it up if you want to...
I'll take some Tylenol and codeine, instead, how about a lot of number six?
 Oh, God.
I'll take it, kid.  You take two weeks paid leave.  Don't waste a second thinking about that shitbag. Then come back.  You're a cop, M.J.
Get the civilians outta here.
She's in no shape to give her statement tonight...
No, she can come in tomorrow... gonna want to know a lot of things...
The only one who could tell you what you really need to know is dead.
Yeah, it's a thought...
You could use a long hot bath, you know that?  You better get somebody to drive you home.
Why can't I drive home?  I will. You.  Look at you.  You need a ride home.  And you don't even know it.
 Well, thanks.
Hey!  Halloran!  What's the story here?
If she has to ask, she's never gonna know.
