His nemesis His dark angel. Sharp cut to--
CASSIUS is a leading proletariat organizer:
Before we proceed any further, hear me speak -- You are all resolved rather to die than to famish? The others agree. They are not wild-eyed radicals. They are normal people, from all walks of life. You and me.
First, you know Caius Martius is chief enemy to the people. A voice from the back of the room:
Let us kill him. The others turn. Tamora, just entering, pulls off her coat, joins the others:
And we'll have corn at our own price. Is it a verdict? Some are unsure. She is too extreme for some.
Will you proceed especially against Caius Martius?
Against him first. A COLLEGE PROFESSOR, speaks up:
Consider you what services he has done for his country?
him good report for it -- but that he pays himself with being proud.
Nay, but speak not maliciously. She has over-played her hand. Pretends to back down:
I say unto you, what he hath done famously, he did it to that end...  He did it to please his mother. Some laugh at her gossip. Then the TV image switches to a BREAKING NEWS update: From the Roman Senate. An august press room. A Senator is moving to a podium to make a statement. He is Senator MENENIUS is a seasoned and wily politician. Silver hair, perfectly tailored suit. He is known as a folksy "man of the people." It is a role he plays to perfection.
Soft, who comes here?
Worthy Senator Menenius, one that hath always loved the people.
He's one honest enough; would all the rest were so.
Strike at the heavens with your staves as
Against the Roman state--
 Suffer us to famish, and their storehouses crammed with grain-- The others shush her.
The helms of the state, who care for you like fathers, When you curse them as enemies-- Cassius mutes the TV. We see Senator Menenius continuing with his speech; his attempt to calm the dangerous situation.
Care for us? They never cared for us yet!
If the wars eat us not up, they will: and that's all the love they bear us. The others are growing increasingly restive -- shifting --
Why stay we prating here?
No more talking on it! To the Capitol! Come! Come!
Rows of black uniforms. Full riot gear with plexiglass shields and dangerous truncheons.
A long, tense beat. Then... One of the horsemen trots forward... He rides a beautiful white horse... It is CAIUS MARTIUS. (Soon to be given the honorary title Coriolanus.) He is intense and patrician. Uncompromising. A man of steel. A soldier. He wears a crisp, military uniform. From his position on the horse, Martius looks over the rioters... His gaze is ice... A long beat... Then he dismounts... He slowly walks to the unruly mob... With no hesitation, unarmed... He stops before them... And speaks with absolute disdain.
What's the matter, you dissentious rogues, That, rubbing the poor itch of your opinion, Make yourselves scabs?
Beneath abhorring. The crowd is hushed. Taking in his every word.
What would you have, you curs? He that trusts to you, Where he should find you lions, finds you
Where foxes, geese. He walks along the front of the crowd. Some are frightened by the great Martius. Some are even awed. Others glare at him with loathing.
Who deserves greatness Deserves your hate... Hang ye! Trust ye? With every minute you do change your mind, And call him noble that was now your hate, Him vile that was your garland. He continues along the crowd, his cold eyes taking in face
What's the matter, That in these several places of the city You cry against the noble Senate, who, Under the gods, keep you in awe, which
Would feed on one another? He stops and glares at the mob with seething anger. He climbs back onto his horse. Stares down at them.
Go GET YOU HOME, YOU FRAGMENTS! A tense beat. The riot police shift nervously. The crowd is unsure. The TV news crew films everything.
These are almost thoroughly persuaded; For though abundantly they lack discretion, Yet are they passing cowardly.
They are dissolved. Hang 'em. Senator Menenius watches the crowd. Disturbed.
I would they were abed.
I would they were in Tiber. They move off.
COMINIUS, an older general, enters. He is an experienced commander of men also used to dealing with the necessary politics of civilian oversight. West Point bearing. All salute. Cominius returns the salute.
The news is the Volsces are in arms. An aide presses a remote. Grainy video images play on a monitor: Volscian soldiers, jeeps, tanks. One section shows a quick image of the rebel leader, a striking man called Tullus Aufidius, riding past in a jeep.
They have a leader, Tullus Aufidius, that will put you to it.
I sin in envying his nobility, And were I any thing but what I am, I would wish me only he.
You have fought together?
He is a lion That I am proud to hunt. Martius takes the remote control. Stops the video. Rewinds to the unclear image of Aufidius.
Titus Lartius, thou Shalt see me once more strike at Tullus' face.
Lead you on. Martius rewinds and plays the image of Aufidius again, rewinds and plays it again, almost obsessively. We push in on the video image of Aufidius... Aufidius appears to be staring right back at Martius... And this takes us to...
So, your opinion is, Aufidius, That they of Rome are entered in our
And know how we proceed.
We never yet made doubt but Rome was
To answer us.
And it is rumored Martius, your old enemy, leads in their preparation. He tosses a glossy magazine on the desk, a picture of Martius on the cover. Aufidius' eyes spark at the image of Martius. He picks up the magazine and carefully tears off the cover picture of Martius, looking at the picture deeply. He continues with a strange and grim fire:
If we and Caius Martius chance to meet, 'Tis sworn between us we shall ever
Till one can do no more. By the elements, If ever again I meet him beard to beard, He's mine or I am his.
It floats before a palatial mansion in the suburbs of the great city. Manicured lawns. Formal gardens. Classical architectural lines. This fine home of aristocratic privilege seems a world away from the urban blight of Rome. In the immaculate front gardens YOUNG MARTIUS, Martius' son, is playing. The boy is about ten. There is something grim and lonely about him, without charm. Young Martius chases after the butterfly, trying to catch it. He fails. The butterfly flits away. Young Martius leaps after it. Again he misses. Finally the frustrated boy manages to catch the butterfly. In his rage he tears it to pieces, brutally shredding it. We realize he is being observed...
I pray you, daughter, sing, or express yourself in a more comfortable sort. If my son were my husband, I should more freely rejoice in that absence wherein he won honor than in the embracements of his bed where he would show most love. She moves across the room to fetch a cigarette. She moves, always, with stately grace. She walks past a series of photographs. They tell the story of Martius' life: the happy baby; the stern dead father; the rigid young military cadet; the formal wedding; the restrained and unsmiling adult. In the photos we sense a transformation: innocent boy to experienced, severe looking soldier. Volumnia is present in most of the pictures.
When yet he was but tender-bodied and the only son of my womb, I, considering how honor would become such a person, was pleased to let him seek danger where he was like to find fame. She lights her cigarette.
To a cruel war I sent him, from whence he returned, his brows bound with oak.
But had he died in the business, madam, how then?
Then his good report should have been my son.  Had I a dozen sons I had rather have eleven die nobly for their country than one voluptuously surfeit out of action. A MAID enters. She speaks to Volumnia (the true mistress of the house) not to Virgilia.
Madam, Senator Menenius is come to visit you.
Tell Menenius we are fit to bid him welcome. The Maid goes.
Beseech you, give me leave to retire myself.
Indeed, you shall not! She turns off the TV and goes to a bar to mix drinks. She mixes the drinks aggressively, strangely inspired by the discussion of war:
Methinks I hear hither your husband's
Methinks I see him stamp thus, and call
"Come on, you cowards! You were got in fear, Though you were born in Rome." His bloody
Then wiping, forth he goes.
His bloody brow? 0 Jupiter, no blood...
Away, you fool! It more becomes a man Than gold his trophy.
Heavens bless my lord from fell Auf idius ...
He'll beat Aufidius' head below his knee And tread upon his neck. Senator Menenius enters, he is comfortable in this house and an old ally of Volumnia's.
My ladies both, good day to you. Volumnia hands him one of the drinks she has been mixing: a perfect martini. She knows how he takes his drink. She is not above flirting with him when it suits her ends.
How do you both?
I thank you, sir; well, good.
He had rather play with swords and hear a drum than look upon his schoolmaster.
On my word, the father's son! He and Volumnia laugh. Menenius has sensed Virgilia's tension. Tries to cheer her:
Come, I must have you play the idle housewife with me this afternoon.
No, good sir, I will not out of doors.
Not out of doors!
She shall, she shall.
Indeed, no, by your patience. I'll not over the threshold till my lord return from the wars.
Fie, you confine yourself most unreasonably.
I cannot go hither.
No, good sir, pardon me; indeed, I will not forth.
Go with me and I'll tell you excellent news of your husband.
0, good sir, there can be none yet.
There came news from him last night. Volumnia pounces, moving in:
Indeed?
Your lord and Titus Lartius are set down before the Volscian city of Corioles. They nothing doubt prevailing and to make it brief wars This is true, on mine honor; and so, I pray, go out with us.
The battle is photographed in a gritty exposure. Color is drained out -- blood is a darker red like oil. Soldiers are dark forms moving through shadows and smoke. Martius and Titus, leading a platoon of around twenty Roman SOLDIERS, run into view and take cover. Bullets zip and snap around them. The Roman soldiers wear modern battle fatigues and body armor, tricked out with all the latest tech gear. The Volscians, being a poor guerilla force, wear thrown together uniforms that look almost tribal. Martius calls over the incessant din of battle to Titus and
They fear us not, but issue forth their city. Sniper bullets slam into a wall near him. He coughs away the smoke and debris. This only makes him more angry:
They do disdain us much beyond our thoughts, Which makes me sweat with wrath! He that retires, I'll take him for a Volsce, And he shall feel mine edge! Martius leaps up and races on. The others follow in military order. The Roman soldiers move along the street -- it is chaotic -- explosions, smoke and sniper fire -- they duck into doorways and behind abandoned cars -- returning fire as best they can-- Martius leads -- firing stead bursts from his machine gun-- It is slow and bloody going-- Finally the Romans turn a corner and are stopped by a roadblock: a burning bus that fills the entire street-- The Volsces use this roadblock to ambush the Roman soldiers-- We see glimpses of Volscian soldiers darting for position -- firing from rooftops and from inside shops--
He goes to the window. Scans the street below. Sees Martius and the others trapped at the bus. He gestures to an aide for
Martius refuses to yield -- pushing and shoving his men toward the burning bus -- screaming in fury over the noise:
You souls of geese, That bear the shapes of men! PLUTO AND
All hurt behind! Backs red, and faces
With flight and agued fear! Mend and charge home, Or, by the fires of heaven, I'll leave
Look to it. Come on!
He leaves his soldiers behind-- Moves alone to the burning bus and fights his way through the
Martius is in his own world now. He doesn't even realize he is alone. He has become a sort of killing machine. A shark moving through the ocean. Ruthless and efficient. We become the warrior. From Martius' POV: We move through disorienting curtains of smoke... Continue down the street... Firing a heavy machine gun... Volscian soldiers contort and die, torn to pieces by the bullets... The heavy machine gun is empty, we drop it and use a sidearm, firing strategic shots... Volscian soldiers dart up -- fire -- and die... We keep moving steadily forward... Shadowy shapes moving nearby, we fire. Killing civilians. The fortunes of war...
What is become of Martius?
Slain, sir, doubtless.
He is himself alone, To answer all the city.
Thou art lost, Martius... Titus has no time to mourn. He looks over the hopeless situation. Scanning the rooftops, windows and shops. Then he stops He sees something Past the burning bus Through the smoke and flames... He glimpses a ghostly figure...
Who's yonder, That does appear as he were flayed? 0 gods! He has the stamp of Martius. It is indeed Martius. A shocking sight. Drenched head-to-toe in blood. His face splattered with gore. His eyes wild. Lost in something like rapture.
Come I too late?! Come I too late?!
Ay, if you come not in the blood of others, But mantled in your own. Martius laughs wildly and embraces Titus, who comes away splattered with blood:
0, let me clip ye In arms as sound as when I wooed, in
As merry as when our nuptial day was done! SUDDENLY -- a deafening explosion -- and RPG EXPLODING from nearby. Then gunfire. Bullets shatter windows. The Volscians are attacking again. The Romans instantly begin diving for cover and taking up
There is the man of my soul's hate--
Piercing our Romans.
Worthy sir, thou bleeds. Thy exercise hath been too violent For a second course of fight.
Sir, praise me not. My work hath yet not warmed me. The blood I drop is more medicinal Than dangerous to me. To Aufidius thus I will appear and fight. He turns to some soldiers, imploring them to join him. His bloody visage and intensity are strangely inspiring, his
Wherein you see me smeared; if any fear Lesser his person than an ill report; If any think brave death outweighs bad life, And that his country's dearer than
Let him alone, or so many so minded, Wave thus, to express his disposition,
Zigzagging across the plaza toward the hotel-- Titus and the others provide covering fire--
They return fire at the hotel as best they can, but the barrage from the Volscians is murderous-- Roman soldiers contort and fall, blood spraying-- Bullets snap and ricochet everywhere around them-- But still they keep up a steady pace, reloading and firing as
Then Martius is hit--
But still he keeps on-- The front of the hotel is closer now-- Martius and his soldiers race to the hotel and crash into the
It is the weird and incongruous nature of modern urban warfare: soldiers fighting to the death among hotel couches and tatty corporate artwork-- It is brutal-- Martius and his soldiers cut a bloody swath across the hotel
Another HUGE EXPLOSION rocks the hotel -- like a seismic blast -- an ugly 1970's chandelier falls--
Aufidius is on the stairway above. Glaring down at him. A long beat as they lock eyes. Both panting for breath in the heat of the combat.
I'll fight with none but thee, for I do hate thee.
We hate alike. Then Martius does something astounding. He holds out his arms to his sides and drops his weapons. They clatter down. Aufidius does the same. The Roman and Volscian soldiers watch. None daring to interfere. Martius and Aufidius continue to glare at each other -- dropping weapons -- disarming -- Martius climbing up the stairs, Aufidius coming down -- moving closer and closer-- At an instant- They slam together- Fighting without weapons-- Grappling brutally. Tearing at each other. Twining together. Fingers grasping. Teeth snapping. Hands pulling. It is a bloody, terrible, graceless struggle.
Another EXPLOSION rocks the hotel-- Part of the roof COLLAPSES-- Concrete SLAMS down-- A cloud of smoke, dust and debris obscures everything- Martius is tossed violently to the ground in the action-- Aufidius is pulled away by several of his men. They drag him to safety. Roman soldiers fire after them. The sound is deafening in the confined garage. But Aufidius and his comrades disappear into a cloud of dust. Gone. Martius glares after him. Wipes blood from his eyes.
If I should tell thee over this thy day's work, Thou would not believe thy deeds. Martius is barely listening. His attention is on a YOUNG SOLDIER across the room. The Young Soldier is injured, pale and thirsty. Dying.
But I'll report it Where Senators shall mingle tears with
Where great patricians shall attend and shrug, In the end admire and say: "We thank the
Our Rome hath such a soldier."
Rome must know The value of her own. It were a
Worse than a theft, To hide your doings.
I have some wounds upon me, and they
To hear themselves remembered. The surgeon finishes stitching Martius' arm. Starts to clean another wound.
Should they not, Well might they fester against
Too modest are you. Impatient, Martius rises, painfully and slowly. He takes his canteen and crosses to the Young Soldier. Gives his canteen to the boy. The Young Soldier drinks. His deep, sad eyes gaze up at Martius. Martius watches as... The Young Soldier dies. The light goes from his eyes. His head hangs awkwardly. His boyish face is leaden. Martius suddenly finds himself exhausted. Morally and physically spent.
Whether I blush or no Howbeit, thank you. Martius stares at the dead soldier.
Five times, Martius, I have fought with thee; so often hast thou beat me, And would do so, I think, should we
As often as we eat. He becomes aware some of his men are looking at him, disturbed at his fervor.
I thought to crush him in an equal force, True sword to sword, I'll stab him some way, Or wrath -- or craft -- may get him.
He's the devil.
Bolder, though not so subtle. A beat. Aufidius continues with prayer-like intensity:
My valor, poisoned with him, Shall fly out of itself ... Nor sleep, nor sanctuary, being naked, Sick, the prayers of priests, Nor times of sacrifice, Shall lift up their rotten privilege And custom, Against my hate to Martius. In the shattered glass of the minivan window, Aufidius suddenly sees himself. He studies his own face, nurturing his dark thoughts.
Where I find him, were it At home, upon my brother's guard, even there, Will I wash my fierce hand in his heart.
Comfortable red leather booths. Wooden panelling. Two Tribunes -- Senators chosen to speak for the people -- are having lunch. BRUTUS is a large man in a rumpled grey suit; a sweating bear with a taste for bare-knuckle politics. SICINIUS is smaller and vulpine; crafty and cold. Both are ambitious politicos used to manipulating the people and the press for their personal ends. With them sits Cassius, the political agitator we met before. The TV over the bar shows images of Martius' victory: parading Roman troops; Volscian prisoners; flags; adoring crowds; triumphant slogans; "Mission Accomplished."
Was ever man so proud as is this Martius?
He has no equal.
When we were chosen Tribunes for the
Marked you his lip and eyes?
Nay, but his taunts. They see Senator Menenius approaching. Sicinius nods to Cassius, who quickly goes. Menenius stops by on his way out. He is jolly, knowing the victory will assure his protege's political future:
The augurer tells me we shall have news tonight.
Good or bad?
Not according to the prayer of the people, for they love not Martius.
Nature teaches beasts to know their friends.
You blame Martius for being proud?
We do it not alone, sir. Subtly, the polite chit-chat is turning more serious and pointed; Menenius growing sharper. The gloves are coming off.
I know you can do very little alone You talk of pride: 0 that you could turn your eyes toward the napes of your necks, and make but an interior survey of your good selves! 0 that you could!
What then, sir?
Why, then you should discover a brace of unmeriting, proud, violent, testy magistrates, alias fools, as any in Rome. The saturnine Sicinius' response seems almost a threat:
Menenius, you are known well enough too.
I am known to be a humorous patrician, and one that loves a cup of hot wine with not a drop of allaying water in it; one that converses more with the buttock of the night than with the forehead of the morning. What I think I utter, and spend my malice in my breath.
Come, sir, come, we know you well enough.
You know neither me, yourselves nor anything You are ambitious. A tense beat. They are formidable adversaries.
Good-e'en to your worships. More of your conversation would infect my brain, being the herdsmen of the beastly plebeians I will be bold to take my leave of you. He goes. The Tribunes watch him cut through the lunch crowd and exit.
Honorable Menenius, my boy Martius approaches! For the love of Juno, let's go.
Is he not wounded? He was wont to come home wounded.
0, no, no, no...
So do I too -- if it be not too much. Brings a victory in his pocket, the wounds become him. Has he disciplined Aufidius soundly?
Titus Lartius says they fought together, but Aufidius got off.
In truth, there's wondrous things spoke of him. Gods grant them true.
 True?!
I'll be sworn they are true. Where is he wounded? Volumnia and Menenius now gleefully add up her son's wounds like accountants -- or campaign managers.
In the shoulder and in the left arm. There will be large scars to show the people, when he shall stand for his place He received in the repulse of Tarquin seven hurts in the body.
One in the neck, and two in the thigh - there's nine that I know.
He had, before this last expedition, twenty-five wounds upon him.
Now it's twenty-seven. Every gash was an enemy's grave. We focus on Volumnia's face as she thinks about her son.
He carries noise, and behind him he leaves tears. Death, that dark spirit, in his nervy arm
Which, being advanced, declines, and then men die. They hurry to the stop of a grand staircase, where there are people waiting...
An honor guard of Roman soldiers in dress uniforms are waiting. Roman flags flutter. All very ceremonial. Martius enters below. The honor guard snaps to attention. Martius -- hereafter called Coriolanus -- slowly begins to cross to the steps. We see that walking is very difficult for him. His wounds are severe and every movement is agony. He has paid a steep price for his victory. Photographers flash photos and a TV crew film the ceremony. Coriolanus finally reaches the steps leading up. He takes a breath and slowly begins to climb the stairs, each step a challenge. Volumnia looks down on him. Unmoved by his pain. Virgilia is distraught. As Coriolanus slowly hauls himself up the last few steps, General Cominius speaks into a cluster of microphones and addresses the press:
Be it known, As to us, to all the world, that Caius
Wears this war's garland And from this time, For what he did before Corioles, call him, With all the applause and clamor of the host, "Caius Martius Coriolanus!"
Caius Martius Coriolanus! Coriolanus has reached the podium. An awkward beat. Cominius gestures for him to speak into the microphones. He tersely does so:
No more of this; it does offend my heart. Pray now, no more. An awkward silence. Cominius elegantly tries to covers the
Look, sir, your mother.
You have, I know, petitioned all the gods For my prosperity. He kneels to her -- slowly, with great difficulty -- she lets him.
Nay, my good soldier, up.  My gentle Martius, worthy Caius, and By deed-achieving honor newly named - What is it? - Coriolanus must I call thee? She laughs coquettishly, thoroughly upstaging her son. Then, almost an afterthought:
But, 0, thy wife... Coriolanus greets Virgilia with the clumsy and stiff formality that marks their marriage.
My gracious silence, hail. An awkwardly tender kiss. He notes her tears. Reacts coldly.
Would thou have laughed had I come coffined home, That weeps to see me triumph? Ay, my dear, Such eyes the widows in Corioles wear, And mothers that lack sons.
Now, the gods crown thee!
 And live you yet?
A hundred thousand welcomes! Coriolanus is surrounded by well-wishers and political admirers. Volumnia and Menenius usher him along. We see the image from TV: The noble warrior returned home. Devoted family. Flags waving. The future golden.
The good Senators must be visited; From whom I have received not only greetings, But with them change of honors. He shifts painfully as she continues to treat one of his wounds.
I have lived To see inherited my very wishes And the buildings of my fancy. Only There's one thing wanting, which I doubt
Our Rome will cast upon thee. He catches her eye in the mirror, very firm:
Know, good mother, I had rather be their servant in my way, Than sway with them in theirs. They stop when-- Virgilia enters. She stops in the doorway. It is embarrassing for her, as if she has interrupted two lovers. A long moment. She looks to her husband. To Volumnia. They stare back. There is no way she can compete with their intimacy. Surrendering, she silently goes.
He cannot temperately transport his honors, but will Lose those he hath won.
I heard him swear, Were he to stand for Consul, never would
Appear in the marketplace nor Showing, as the manner is, his wounds To the people, beg "their stinking breaths."
It was his word.
So it must fall out with him, Or our authorities at an end.
We must suggest to the people in what
He still hath held them.
It remains, As the main point of this our after- meeting, To gratify his noble service that Hath thus stood for his country... The interior of the grand Senate is an airy, sweeping chamber that suggests the Israeli Knesset or U.N. General Assembly. Again, classical symmetry is the rule with tiers of seats facing a central dais. An imposing piece of outdated modern art suggesting the might of Rome looms over the chamber like a bird of prey. Network TV cameras purr quietly from a corner. Menenius, Cominius, Coriolanus and several other politicos are seating at a central table on the dais, facing the rows of SENATORS. Menenius is standing at a podium, speaking into a microphone:
Therefore, please you, Most reverend and grave elders, to desire The present Consul, and last general In our well-found successes, to report A little of that worthy work performed By Caius Martius Coriolanus.
Speak, good Cominius. General Cominius rises and moves to the podium. But then Coriolanus abruptly stands--
Nay, keep your place.
Sit, Coriolanus. Never shame to hear What you have nobly done.
Your honors' pardon. I had rather have my wounds to heal again Than hear say how I got them.
Pray now, sit down.
I had rather have one scratch my head in
When the alarum were struck than idly sit To hear my nothings monstered. Coriolanus moves across the dais and exits into a hallway. The door shuts after him. Menenius sighs. Nods to Cominius. Cominius moves to the podium and begins to read his speech from a Teleprompter. This all has the rehearsed quality of a campaign nomination speech.
The deeds of Coriolanus Should not be uttered feebly. It is held That valor is the chiefest virtue, and Most dignifies the haver. Alone he
The mortal gate of the city, And struck Corioles like a planet, From face to foot He was a thing of blood... Brutus and Sicinius exchange a glance, bored by the political boilerplate.
He leans against a wall, alone with his thoughts. Cominius' voice can be heard droning inside. Then Coriolanus glances up. A CUSTODIAN is pushing a garbage can down the long corridor. He stops when he sees Coriolanus. Coriolanus' cool, uncompromising stare makes the Custodian uneasy. He turns around and goes back.
The Senate, Coriolanus, are well pleased To make thee Consul! Menenius steps back. A beat. Coriolanus stares at the Senators. At the TV cameras. He leans awkwardly into the podium microphone:
I do owe them still My life and services. A beat. For an acceptance speech, rather terse. Menenius jumps in to salvage the moment:
It then remains That you do speak to the people.
I do beseech you, Let me overleap that custom, for I cannot
For my wounds' sake to give their suffrage. Please you that I may pass this doing. From the Senate floor, Sicinius jumps on this:
Sir, the people Must have their voices!
 Pray you, go fit you to the custom.
It is a part That I shall blush in acting, and might
Be taken from the people. Menenius quickly turns off Coriolanus' microphone.
To brag unto them "Thus I did, and thus!" Show them the unaching scars which I should hide, As if I had received them for the hire Of their breath only! Menenius sees Coriolanus is getting angry, this could be disastrous. He elegantly gestures for Cominius to escort Coriolanus out immediately -- as he addresses the Senators and TV cameras:
To our noble Consul Wish we all joy and honor! He applauds. The applause is taken up by the Senators. Some cheering as well for the hero of Rome The two Tribunes, however, are already whispering maliciously to other Senators. Menenius seems pleased with the general response. So far, so good.
Coriolanus sits with Menenius. Coriolanus is both angry and embarrassed. He is wearing a sharp business suit.
Have you not known The worthiest men have done it?
O me, the gods! You must not speak like that. You must
To think upon you--
"Think upon me"? Hang 'em! I would they would forget me.
You'll mar all! The limo stops. They are at the marketplace. The moment has come. Menenius takes a breath. Urges calm:
Pray you, speak to them, I pray you, In wholesome manner.
Advertising billboards surround and pollute the square -- SONY. COKE. NIKE. MCDONALDS -- obscuring any classical architecture that might have survived. Tamora and Cassius, the political activists, are in the crowd. They watch closely. Coriolanus slowly walks to the center of the marketplace. He stands, feeling ridiculous and not at all humble. He looks around. Waiting for something to happen. The CUSTOMERS and SHOPKEEPERS just look back at him. Some are curious. Some are amused. Some hostile and most indifferent. But no one approaches. Then Coriolanus understands. He must g to them: beg for votes. He prepares himself and then slowly moves through the various stalls, weaving in and out. Trying to maintain his dignity. He sees the Citizens from before and goes to them. We glimpse Brutus and Sicinius amongst the crowd.
We do, sir. Tell us what hath brought you to it.
Mine own desert.
Your own desert?
Ay, but not mine own desire.
How not your own desire?
No, it was never my desire yet to trouble the poor with begging.
You must think, if we give you anything, we hope to gain by you.
Well then, I pray, your price of the Consulship?
The price is to ask it kindly.
Kindly, sir, I pray, let me have it. I have wounds to show you, which shall be yours in private Your good voice, sir. What say you?
A match, sir. There's in all two worthy voices begged. I have your alms. Adieu. Business done, so he thinks, Coriolanus crisply moves on. Cassius is not convinced.
But this is something odd. Coriolanus continues on. He sees a large JAMAICAN WOMAN with her CHILDREN, carrying plastic grocery bags, talking to a SHOPKEEPER. He goes to them:
Pray you now, if it may stand with the tune of your voices that I may be Consul.
You have deserved nobly of your country, and you have not deserved nobly.
Your enigma?
You have been a scourge to her enemies; you have been a rod to her friends You have not indeed loved the common people.
You should account me the more virtuous that I have not been common in my love Therefore, beseech you, I may be Consul.
We hope to find you our friend, and therefore give you our voices heartily.
You have received many wounds for your country.
I will not seal your knowledge with showing them. I will make much of your voices, and so trouble you no farther.
The gods give you joy, sir, heartily! Coriolanus is warming to the task, it's easier than he thought. He moves to a central, open area and declares
Your voices! For your voices I have
Watched for your voices; for your voices
Of wounds two dozen odd; battles thrice
I have seen and heard of! A crowd is gathering. We note Brutus and Sicinius in the crowd. Menenius, too, has moved in.
For your voices Have done many things, some less, some more. Your voices! Indeed, I would be Consul.
He has done nobly, and cannot go without any honest man's voice!
The gods give him joy, and make him good friend to the people! The Citizens applaud and give their support:
Amen, amen. God save thee, noble Consul!
Worthy voices! Menenius, with Brutus and Sicinius, goes to him:
You have stood your limitation, and the
Endue you with the people's voice.
Is this done?
The custom of request you have discharged. The people do admit you, and are summoned To meet anon upon your approbation.
Where? At the Senate?
There, Coriolanus.
I'll keep you company.
How now, my masters! Have you chose this man?
We pray the gods he may deserve your loves.
Amen, sir. To my poor unworthy notice, He mocked us when he begged our voices.
He flouted us downright.
No, it is his kind of speech; he did not mock us.
Why, so he did, I am sure.
No, no! No one saw them!
 Was not this mockery? Brutus presses hard:
When he had no power, But was a petty servant to the state, He was your enemy, ever spake against Your liberties.
Did you perceive He did solicit you in free contempt When he did need your loves, and do you
That his contempt shall not be bruising
When he hath power to crush?
He's not confirmed; we may deny him yet!
And will deny him! I'll have five hundred voices of that sound.
I twice five hundred and their friends! The crowd roars approval. A frightening, animal sound.
Let them assemble, And on a safer judgment all revoke Your ignorant election.
Enforce his pride, And his old hate unto you!
And presently, when you have drawn your number, Repair to the Capitol.
We will so!
We will so! All Repent in their election! Cassius and Tamora lead the crowd. It is a terrifying spectacle of sudden mob rage, only a razor-thin edge to violence. Brutus and Sicinius watch, satisfied, like Robespierre and Saint Just looking over the bloody guillotine.
He has, my lord.
Saw you Aufidius?
He is retired to Antium.
Spoke he of me?
He did, my lord.
How? What?
How often he had met you, sword to sword; That of all things upon the earth he
Your person most.
At Antium lives he?
At Antium.
I wish I had a cause to seek him there, To oppose his hatred fully. They hear the growing rumble of a crowd. Curious. They continue on and turn a corner to...
Pass no further.
Ha! What is that?
It will be dangerous to go on. No further.
What makes this change?
The matter?
Hath he not passed the nobles and the commons?
Cominius, no. Coriolanus steps closer to Brutus. The mob sees him through the glass doors. The tension immediately increases.
Have I had children's voices?
Tribunes, give way.
The people are incensed against him.
(glancing to the growing
Are these your herd?
Be calm, be calm.
The people cry you mocked them, and of late called them Time-pleasers, flatterers, foes to nobleness.
But this was known before.
You show too much of that For which the people stir. If you will
To where you are bound, you must inquire your way. The crowd outside is growing restless, sensing and responding to the building tension. The police try to hold them back, keeping them away from the doors. The crowd presses in. We see Cassius and Tamora at the forefront, urging the crowd on.
Let's be calm--
The people are abused, set on--
Not now, not now--
Not in this heat, sir-- Coriolanus strides angrily toward the doors and exits-- The others follow--
My nobler friends, I crave their pardons. For the mutable, rank-scented crowd, Let them regard me as I do not flatter, And therein behold themselves. I say again, In soothing them, we nourish against our
The cockle of rebellion, insolence, sedition, Which we ourselves have ploughed for, sowed, and scattered, By mingling them with us!
Well, no more!
No more words, we beseech you-- The mob has surrounded them all by now. The police are getting nervous, eyes darting uneasily from the unruly crowd to the volatile men. This all has the potential of sparking to violence. We note a TV news crew moving into position, covering the action. Others film with cell phone cameras. We intercut some of this footage.
 You speak of the people As if you were a god to punish, not A man of their infirmity.
It were well we let the people know it.
Were I as patient as the midnight sleep, By Jove, it would be my mind!
It is a mind That shall remain a poison where it is, Not poison any further.
His absolute "shall"?
Why, should the people give One that speaks thus their voice?
I'll give my reasons, More worthier than their voices! Menenius tries to pull him away, Coriolanus shakes free and continues the attack:
By Jove himself, It makes the consuls base; and my soul
To know, when two authorities are up, Neither supreme, how soon confusion, May enter 'twixt the gap of both and take The one by the other. The crowd roars angrily -- Coriolanus spins on them:
Thus we debase the nature of our seats, and make the rabble Call our cares fears; which will in time Break ope the locks of the Senate, and
The crows to peck the eagles!
Come, enough!
Enough, with over-measure.
 He has spoken like a traitor, and shall
As traitors do! At the word "traitor" Coriolanus loses all reason, he is
Thou wretch, despite overwhelm thee!
Manifest treason!
This is a Consul? No!
Hence, old goat! Coriolanus grabs Sicinius roughly and flings him aside-- At this -- the crowd ROARS in outrage -- the TV crews hustle
Menenius pulls Coriolanus off:
On both sides more respect!
 Here's he that would take from you all your power! The crowd reacts angrily -- surging forward against the restraint of the police. We see grim RIOT POLICE marching into position. The crowd is not intimidated, they are spoiling for a fight. The Tribunes provoke the crowd even more, escalating and building the fever:
You are at point to lose your liberties! Martius would have all from you, Martius, Whom late you have named for Consul.
What is the city but the people?!
True! The people are the city!
We do here pronounce, upon the part of the people, Martius is worthy of present DEATH! A huge roar from the mob. Panic and violence building. Fast
Guards, seize him!
No, I'll die here!
Lay hands upon him!
EMPTY_LINE
Riot Police march in, slamming ahead with riot shields and
The mob fights back with anything at hand -- some are armed with clubs and knives, others snatch up garbage cans and newspaper vending machines, throwing them, smashing windows, battling the police, kicking and punching and screaming-- It is civil disobedience. But it is also drunken, thug violence. Terrifying in its intensity-- Menenius gets Titus and Cominius to hustle Coriolanus away--
Go, get you to your house! Be gone, away! All will be naught else--
Come, sir, along with us-- They hurry Coriolanus away-- The Riot Police, outnumbered, start firing TEAR GAS into the
TV news crew filming-- Chaotic, flurried violence-- Shaky TV images, cell phone video-- Choking, acrid gas-- It is a terrifying descent into public madness as all order breaks down. Rome is bloody.
Consul! What Consul?
The Consul Coriolanus.
He Consul?!
It is decreed He dies tonight.
He's a disease that must be cut away.
0, he's a limb that has but a disease: Mortal, to cut it off; to cure it, easy. What has he done to Rome that's worth his death? Eh? Killing our enemies?! He sees that his words are having some effect, he presses the
The blood he hath lost -- He dropped it for his country. Some in the room murmur agreement.
We'll hear no more--
Consider this: he has been bred in the
Since he could draw a sword, and is ill
In graceful language Give me leave, I'll go to him, and undertake to bring
Where he shall answer by a lawful form, In peace, to his utmost peril.
Noble tribunes, It is the humane way.
The other course Will prove too bloody, and the end of it Unknown to the beginning. Sicinius is about to retort when Brutus stops him. Brutus assents, assuming the voice of reason:
Be you then as the people's officer. Menenius and Coriolanus' supporters are relieved.
If you bring not Martius, we'll proceed In our first way.
I'll bring him to you. He goes quickly. Brutus turns to Sicinius and Tamora and begins to quietly explain his plan.
Let them pull all about mine ears,
Death on the wheel or at wild horses' heels, Yet will I still be thus to them--!
 I talk of you! Why did you wish me milder? Would you
False to my nature? Rather say I play The man I am! She is equally tough with him, not giving an inch, snapping
0, sir, sir, sir, I would have had you put your power well on, Before you had worn it out.
Let go!
You might have been enough the man you are, With striving less to be so!
Let them hang!
Av, and burn too! Her outraged fury matches his. Overpowers his.
Pray, be counseled. I have a heart as little apt as yours, But yet a brain that leads my use of
To better vantage.
Well said, noble woman!
What must I do?
Return to the Tribunes.
Well, what then? What then?
Repent what you have spoke.
For them? I cannot do it to the gods. Must I then do it to them?
You are too absolute, Though therein you can never be too noble.
 Why force you this? She pursues him:
Because that now it lies you on to speak To the people, not by your own instruction, Nor by the matter which your heart prompts you, But with such words that are but
Your tongue, though but bastards and
Of no allowance to your bosom's truth... She moves closer to him. Her voice lower. A sort of seduction.
I would dissemble with my nature where My fortunes and my friends at stake
I should do so in honor... She is very close now. Whispering. She touches him gently, like a lover.
I am in this your wife, your son, These senators, the nobles And you. A long beat. All are silent, watching her spin her web.
I prithee now, my son, Go and say to them Thou art their soldier, and being bred in
Has not the soft way In asking their good loves; but thou wilt
Thyself, forsooth, hereafter theirs.
This but done, even as she speaks, Why their hearts were yours.
Prithee now, Go, and be ruled...  Although I know thou hadst rather Follow thine enemy in a fiery gulf Than flatter him in a bower. Coriolanus smiles. A genuinely sweet moment between them. Cominius enters with several other political supporters.
Sir, it is fit You make strong party, or defend yourself By calmness or by absence. All's in anger.
Only fair speech.
I think it will serve, if he Can thereto frame his spirit.
He must -- and will.
With base tongue give my noble heart A lie that it must bear? . Well, I will do it. But he is still agitated. Volumnia shares a concerned glance with Menenius.
That hath charity received! The thought of begging is too much, he rejects it, breaking
I will not do it! Lest I cease to honor mine own truth And by my body's action teach my mind A most inherent baseness. Volumnia snarls at him, exasperated, building to a thunder that dwarfs his:
At thy choice, then! To beg of thee, it is my more dishonor Than thou of them. Come all to ruin! Let Thy mother rather feel thy pride than
Thy dangerous stoutness, for I mock at
With as biq heart as thou! Do as you like! The words echo. It is as if he has been slapped. His resolve vanishes.
Pray, be content... Mother, I am going, chide me no more. He awaits her approval. She will not yet grant it.
Look, I am going... Commend me to my wife. I'll return Consul, Or never trust to what my tongue can do In the way of flattery further. She graciously bows to him.
Do your will. Then she kisses him. And she goes. Like a queen. Volumnia triumphant. Always. Then a shocking hard cut to:
Tyrannical power. If he evade us there, Enforce him with his envy to the people.
I have; it's ready.
When the people hear me say "It shall be
In the right and strength of the Commons," be it either For death, for fine, or banishment, then let them, If I say "Fine," cry "Fine!" - if "Death," cry "Death!"
We shall inform them.
A gloomy but resolved Coriolanus walks with Cominius and Menenius between the tiers of audience, on the way to the set.
To answer mildly, for they are prepared With accusations, as I hear, more strong Than are upon you yet.
The word is "mildly." Pray you, let us go. Let them accuse me by invention, I Will answer in mine honor.
Ay, but mildly.
Well, mildly be it then. Mildly! Coriolanus steels himself as they emerge from between the stands and head toward the set. TV news crews are waiting. Blinding lights snap on. The crowd, on seeing Coriolanus, lets out a ROAR. Deafening and savage. We see Cassius and Tamora moving through the crowd, instigating, convincing, imploring. Coriolanus ignores it all. Imperious to the end. Brutus and Sicinius wait on the set.
 Put him to choler straight. Coriolanus and his supporters move to the stage. Coriolanus glares at the Tribunes. The TV crews take up position. Menenius gestures for Coriolanus to step to the microphone, whispering to him:
Calmly, I do beseech you. Coriolanus steps to the microphone. Brutus gestures for the crowd to quiet down. We see bits of this scene through the monitors on the TV cameras. When the crowd is silent, Coriolanus begins to make a
The honored gods-- But his voice echoes badly with reverb. Menenius adjusts the microphone. Coriolanus begins again, quickly and by rote:
The honored gods Keep Rome in safety, and the chairs of
Supplied with worthy men. Plant love among us. Throng our large temples with the shows of peace, And not our streets with war.
Amen, amen.
A noble wish. His boilerplate speech over, Coriolanus turns to Sicinius who is at the other standing microphone:
Shall I be charged no further than this present? Must all determine here?
I do demand, If you submit you to the people's voices.
I am content.
Lo, citizens, he says he is content. The warlike service he has done,
Upon the wounds his body bears, which
Like graves in the holy churchyard.
 Scratches with briers, Scars to move laughter only.
Consider further, That when he speaks not like a citizen, You find him like a soldier. Do not take His rougher accents for malicious sounds, But, as I say, such as become a soldier. Coriolanus cuts in, his impatience getting the better of him:
What is the matter That being passed for Consul with full voice, I am so dishonored that the very hour You take it off again?
We charge you that you have contrived to
From Rome all seasoned office, and to
Yourself into a power tyrannical
 For which you are a traitor to the people. Coriolanus responds, a cobra striking:
How? Traitor?!
The fires in the lowest hell fold in the people! Call me their traitor, thou injurious Tribune!
But since he hath Served well for Rome--
I talk of that, that know it.
You?! I'll know no further. Let them pronounce death, exile, Flaying, pent to linger But with a grain a day - I would not buy Their mercy at the price of one fair word!
In the name of the people And in the power of us the Tribunes, we, Even from this instant, banish him our city! In the people's name, I say IT SHALL BE SO! Well-rehearsed by Cassius and Tamora, many in the crowd respond with a fierce cry:
It shall be so! It shall be so! Let him away!
He's banished! IT SHALL BE SO!
It shall be so! It shall be so! It shall be so...! Cassius and Tamora keep the crowd at a fever pitch-- They keep chanting and railing-- A building seismic rumble--
He's sentenced. No more hearing.
Let me speak! The crowd's fury is building-- It is all about to erupt--
There's no more to be said, but he is
As enemy to the people and his country.
It shall be so! It shall be so! It shall be so...!
His rage is volcanic-- He SLAMS the standing microphone away-- His dragon's ROAR silences the entire studio--
Whose breath I hate As reek of the rotten fens, whose loves I
As the dead carcasses of unburied men That do corrupt my air... 
Here remain with your uncertainty. Let every feeble rumor shake your hearts! Your enemies, with nodding of their plumes, Fan you into despair! Have the power
To banish your defenders, till at length Your ignorance - which finds not till it feels,
Making but reservation of yourselves; Still your own foes - deliver you As most abated captives to some nation That won you without blows! A beat. The TV cameras hum. The crowd is silent. Menenius and the others watch in amazement. Coriolanus slowly takes one last, long look at the people of Rome.
Despising, For you, the city, thus I turn my back. He turns and slowly walks toward one of the tunnels leading from the studio. The crowd follows every step with their eyes. He stops. Turns back. Steel.
There is a world elsewhere. And he goes down the tunnel. Disappearing from view. A silent beat. Then, a chilling cry of absolutely Jacobin bloodlust from the
The people's enemy is gone! The crowd SCREAMS their approval. The SAVAGE CRY echoes around the studio. The echoing roar takes us to...
There is a lonely gas station in the distance, its neon sign glowing a lurid green in the gray dawn light. We are at a Roman checkpoint on the highway into the city. A guardhouse and barrier. Some barbed wire barricades. Bored soldiers. Several cars pull up to the checkpoint. Two Roman security SUVs. Menenius' familiar limousine. And Volumnia's enormous Bentley. Security Guards climb out of their vehicle, light cigarettes and chat with the soldiers manning the checkpoint. Menenius, Titus and Cominius climb from Menenius' limousine.
With many heads butts me away.
Nay, mother, Where is your ancient courage?
Now the red pestilence strike all trades in Rome, And occupations perish!
Nay, mother, I shall be loved when I am lacked. She nods to him, she has regained her composure.
Farewell, Martius.
Thou old and true Menenius, Thy tears are salter than a younger man's, And venomous to thine eyes.
You shall hear from me still. He turns and looks to the distance. Miles and miles of wasteland and desolation.
I go alone, Like to a lonely dragon. He strides off. The soldiers manning the checkpoint raise the barrier. Coriolanus walks under it. And begins walking down the long highway away from Rome. The only sound is the cold, lonely moan of the wind. We fade to...
We see his long odyssey. It is a grueling physical journey -- and also something of a spiritual challenge. He is solitary and without comfort: vulnerable to the elements and also to the demons of his own psyche. We see him as... He walks along the barren highway. Trash piled along the road. A car zooms past. Whoosh. He is lost in dust... Blazing heat, like a furnace, as he trudges over desert terrain. Burning oil wells blacken the sky in the distance... Isolated, within himself, as he walks past the detritus of war a burned out tank a mountain of rusted artillery shells skeletons bleached in the sun... His clothes are dusty and dirty now. A sandstorm. He wraps a scarf around his head, like a burnoose. Only his eyes visible now... A gypsy boy in tattered clothing riding a white horse passes him. The boy looks at him intently as he passes... We get a sense of him moving into different terrain, up into a mountain range, climbing... Then descending. Pouring rain. Lightning sparking. He is almost a Romantic figure now. Byronic. Wrapped in a cloak against the wildness of nature; the chiaroscuro flashes of light illuminating his haunted eyes...
He begins to walk to the town.
Here comes his mother.
 Let's not meet her. They say she's mad. Volumnia stalks up to them:
0, you're well met. The hoarded plague of
Requite your love! The Tribunes try to leave, she won't let them:
Will you be gone?
You shall stay too. I would I had the
To say so to my husband.
Are you mad?
Ay, fool, is that a shame? Note but this,
Hadst thou craft To banish him that struck more blows for
Than thou hast spoken words?
 0 blessed heavens... Volumnia is creating a scene. Heads are turning. She continues her attack on Sicinius, but is distracted and
More noble blows than ever thou wise words, And for Rome's good. I'll tell thee what -
Nay -- but thou shalt stay too -- I would
Were in Arabia, and thy tribe before him, His good sword in his hand.
What then?
What then? He'd make an end of thy posterity.
Bastards and all. Menenius has entered the bar, seeing the trouble he goes to them, tries to calm Volumnia:
Come, come, peace...
Pray, let us go. He tries to leave the bar. Volumnia stops him for final attack, something like a curse in its power:
Now, pray, sir, get you gone. You have done a brave deed. Ere you go,
This lady's husband here, this, do you see?!-- Whom you have banished, does exceed you all.
Well, well, we'll leave you.
Why stay we to be baited With one that wants her wits?
I would the gods had nothing else to do But to confirm my curses! Menenius gently restrains Volumnia and the Tribunes finally escape the bar. Volumnia takes a breath, controls herself.
Could I meet 'em But once a day, it would unclog my heart Of what lies heavy to it.
You have told them home; And, by my troth, you have cause. You'll sup with me? She turns to him. A cold and killing fire in her eyes.
Anger's my meat. I sup upon myself, And so shall starve with feeding. She takes Virgilia's hand and drags her out. Menenius watches. Saddened. Once proud Volumnia, reduced to this.
Walking with a few of his officers. Aufidius is beloved in Antium. He has an easy manner with the people. He stops and chats. Laughs with them. He dances for a moment with a little girl. Coriolanus watches from the shadows, his expression complex. There is real envy . Aufidius has such a comfortable way with the common people, he's natural, unaffected. Aufidius jokes with the little girl's parents for a moment and then moves on. Coriolanus watches Aufidius and his men go into an apartment building. He scans the building with the eye of a Special Forces soldier. He sees that the soldiers guarding the building are bored, it is perfunctory work. Two YOUNG WOMEN, perhaps hookers, move past the front of the building, flirting with the soldiers. The soldiers call and whistle to them, delighted. Coriolanus uses this distraction to slip into the shadows behind the soldiers and sneak into the building...
The doorway is guarded by two serious GUARDS. These are not the bored soldiers out front, these are grim and intense warriors.
A steady stride-- He walks right up to the Guards-- Before they can even respond-- He punches one HARD in the throat -- the Guard recoils, gasping for air-- Simultaneously, Coriolanus SLAMS his other hand violently over the entire face of the second Guard -- grabbing his face firmly and SHOVING him back into the door-- So hard that the door slams aside-- And Coriolanus shoves the Guard into--
He flings the Guard aside-- Aufidius and his men, all pointing weapons at Coriolanus, are stunned. A long beat. Coriolanus' face is still masked by the burnoose. Only his cold eyes are visible.
Whence comes thou? What wouldst thou? Thy name? Coriolanus does not respond.
Speak, man! What's thy name?
A name unmusical to the Volscians' ears, And harsh in sound to thine. The other Guard from outside, and several other soldiers, rush in. Weapons drawn, surrounding Coriolanus. He doesn't move a muscle. Aufidius, intrigued by the stranger's courage, waves his men off.
Say, what's thy name? Thou has a grim appearance .What's thy name?
Know'st thou me yet?
I know thee not Thy name? Finally, Coriolanus removes his burnoose. His face is exposed. The Volscians are stunned.
My name is Caius Martius, who hath done To thee particularly and to all the
Great hurt and mischief; thereto witness
My surname Coriolanus. The Volscians look to Aufidius, very nervous, unsure how to proceed. Aufidius just stares back at Coriolanus, staggered.
Only that name remains. Aufidius doesn't understand. Coriolanus explains:
The cruelty and envy of the people, Who have all forsook me, hath devoured the rest, And suffered me by the voice of slaves to
Whooped out of Rome. Now this extremity Hath brought me to thy hearth, not out of
Mistake me not - to save my life; for if I had feared death, of all the men in the
I would have avoided thee, but in mere spite, To be full quit of those my banishers, Stand I before thee here. Coriolanus dares to take a step toward Aufidius-- The Volscians react. Guns are raised, fingers tight on triggers, an instant from opening fire-- Coriolanus carefully holds out his arms. He's unarmed. Aufidius nods to his men. They hold their fire. Coriolanus slowly crosses the room toward Aufidius. Step by step. Their eyes are locked. Nothing else in the world exists.
I will fight Against my cankered country with the
Of all the under fiends. But if thou Dares not this, then I present My throat to thee and to thy ancient malice... Coriolanus stops right in front of Aufidius and slowly, carefully, undoes his collar. Exposing his naked throat. Bending back his head. Ready for execution.
Which not to cut would show thee but a fool, Since I have ever followed thee with hate, And cannot live but to thy shame unless It be to do thee service. A long beat. Aufidius stares at Coriolanus. The Volscians watch, eyes wide, too tense to do anything now.
Coriolanus blinks some sweat from his eyes. This tiny, human response sparks something in Aufidius.
O Martius Martius Each word thou hast spoke hath weeded from my heart A root of ancient envy. He offers his hand. Coriolanus takes it. Aufidius continues to hold him by the hand, rather intensely, speaking low:
Let me twine Mine arms about that body. He embraces Coriolanus. Aufidius' men finally relax. Weapons are lowered. Relieved glances exchanged. Some of the Volscians, though, are clearly suspicious of Coriolanus. They watch Aufidius and Coriolanus, concerned. Aufidius still can't quite believe his ancient enemy is now his newest ally.
I loved the maid I married; never man Sighed truer breath. But that I see thee here, Thou noble thing, more dances my rapt
Than when I first my wedded mistress saw Bestride my threshold. Coriolanus glances to him, perhaps a little disturbed or embarrassed by the intensity of Aufidius' words. Aufidius steps away from him, gestures for Coriolanus to sit.
Why, thou Mars, I tell thee, We have a power on foot, and I had
Once more to hew thy target from thy brawn,
Or lose mine arm for it. Thou hast beat
Twelve several times, and I have nightly
Dreamt of encounters 'twixt thyself and me. Aufidius continues quietly, almost whispering:
Worthy Martius, Had we no quarrel else to Rome, but that Thou art thence banished, we would muster
From twelve to seventy, and, pouring war Into the bowels of ungrateful Rome, Like a bold flood, overbear it.
A pause. Then Aufidius goes to the old woman. Takes the razor from her. She goes. Aufidius continues to shave Coriolanus' head himself. It is a deeply personal act, even intimate Yet Aufidius employs the same methodical rhythms as when he was sharpening his knife at the opening of the story.
0, come, go in, And take our friendly senators by the hands. Coriolanus shakes hands with the politicians:
You bless me, gods. Then Aufidius takes him to a huge military map laid out on a pool table. Rome and her territories. Strategic markers denote Roman forces and Volscian forces.
Therefore, most absolute sir, if thou
The leading of thine own revenges, take The one half of my commission. The Volscian soldiers and politicos are shocked. Aufidius is giving Coriolanus command of half his forces!
And set down--- As best thou art experienced, since thou
Thy country's strength and weakness--- thine own ways, Whether to knock against the gates of Rome, Or rudely visit them in parts remote, To fright them ere destroy. Aufidius looks at Coriolanus hard. There it is. The gauntlet is thrown down. Coriolanus will have to completely betray Rome: expose her military weaknesses, tell her secrets. For all his neurotic intensity, Aufidius is a shrewd man. Coriolanus nods and turns to the battle map, moving various markers around to show Rome's defensive positions. Aufidius watches him with Machiavellian calm.
Is this Menenius?
'Tis he,'tis he! 0, he is grown most kind of late. Hail sir!
Hail to you both.
Is not much missed, but with his friends.
All's well, and might have been much
He could have temporized.
Where is he, hear you?
Nay, I hear nothing. His mother and his
Hear nothing from him.
Caius Martius was A worthy officer in the war, but insolent, Overcome with pride, ambitious past all thinking,
I think not so.
And Rome sits safe and still without him. They are distracted when people begin talking loudly, alarmed, at the bar. They hush each other and watch the TV over the bar. Something has happened. On the TV: a SPECIAL REPORT. Breaking News. A scroll across the bottom of the screen reads "The Volscians On The March?"
Are entered in the Roman territories, And with the deepest malice of the war Destroy what lies before them...
'Tis Aufidius, Who, hearing of our Martius' banishment, Thrusts forth his horns again into the world.
It cannot be the Volsces dare break with us.
That turns their countenances... (he listens to his ear piece for a second) Yes, the first report is seconded, and more, More fearful, is delivered. The TV picture switches to a flustered TV REPORTER outside the Senate. A lot of nervous activity behind him.
What lay before them.
Do they still fly to Coriolanus?
I do not know what witchcraft's in him,
Your soldiers use him as the grace before meat, Their talk at table, and their thanks at end. And you are darkened in this action, sir.
He bears himself more proud, Even to my person, than I thought he
When first I did embrace him. They turn and walk to the building where Aufidius is
Sir, I beseech you, think you he'll carry Rome?
By sovereignty of nature. Aufidius nods to the guards outside his quarters and enters with his Lieutenant...
Whether t'was pride, Whether defect of judgement, Or whether nature, Not to be other than one thing, Made him feared, So hated, and so banished. A beat as he studies the picture. His lieutenant watches him closely, disturbed by Aufidius' obsession with Coriolanus.
So our virtues Lie in the interpretation of the time. He brings the picture closer, whispering now:
One fire drives out one fire; one nail,
Rights by rights founder, strengths by strengths do fail And when, Caius, Rome is thine,
Thou art poorest of all -- then shortly art thou mine.
No, I'll not go!
Go, you that banished him! A mile before his tent fall down, and
The way into his mercy. They stop when Titus enters with General Cominius. Titus is dusty, has just come from somewhere. He is pale. Truly shaken. Menenius and the others crowd around him, waiting for his report. Titus sits, takes a moment to pull himself together, and then reports with the grim severity of a death sentence:
He would not seem to know me. A beat.
I urged our old acquaintance, and the
That we have bled together. "Coriolanus" He would not answer to, forbade all names... A long beat. They wait for him to go on. Titus searches for the words to continue.
He was a kind of nothing.  Titleless... Till he had forged himself a name in the
Of burning Rome. He has no more to say, his head drops. Menenius begins to leave the room. The Tribunes stop him, leading him to a secluded corner:
If you refuse your aid
Would be your country's pleader, your good tongue, More than the instant army we can make, Might stop our countryman.
No, I'll not meddle.
Pray you, go to him.
What should I do? Brutus stops him, with real emotion:
Only make trial what your love can do For Rome towards Martius.
Well, and say that Martius Return me, as Titus is returned, Unheard - what then?
Yet your good will Must have that thanks from Rome. Menenius thinks about it.
You know the very road into his kindness, And cannot lose your way.
I'll undertake it I think he'll hear me. The Tribunes are relieved. Cominius nods and escorts Menenius out. Brutus and Sicinius return to Titus.
He'll never hear him.
No?
I tell you, he does sit in gold, his eye Red as it would burn Rome.
He walks down the highway toward the distant Volscian troops.
We hear some of the soldiers hooting at him. We stay close on Menenius' blindfolded face, sharing his feeling of disorientation and suspense. The Volscians drag him into the abandoned factory--
Coriolanus. Transformed. And terrifying. He is no longer Roman. He is not Volscian. He is, as Titus said, "a kind of nothing." He sits in the barber chair. His head is completely shaved. His face is marked with martial face painting. These striking totemic markings also cover his scarred body. He is primitive. Inhuman. Like a dragon. The Angel of Death. His young warrior Acolytes -- similarly shaved and painted -- are gathered around him; his personal bodyguard and cult. A long beat as Menenius stares at his friend, stunned at the pagan metamorphosis. Coriolanus just gazes back at him. Menenius finally pulls himself together and approaches, with
The glorious gods sit in hourly synod about thy particular prosperity, and love thee no worse than thy old friend Menenius does! 0 Martius, Martius! He steps forward to hug Coriolanus. Two of the Acolytes stop him. He can approach no further. Menenius accepts this. No matter. He is completely confident he will be able to manipulate his protege. He always has in the past.
Thou art preparing fire for us. Look thee, here's water to quench it. I was hardly moved to come to thee, but being assured none but myself could move thee, I have been blown out of your gates with sighs, and conjure thee to pardon Rome.
Away.
How? . Away?
Are servanted to others. Menenius can't believe this cold response--
Therefore be gone. His frigid eyes slice into Menenius:
Another word, Menenius, I will not hear thee speak. Menenius stares at him, shaken to the core. The Guards pull Menenius away. Coriolanus doesn't even glance at him.
This Martius is grown from man to dragon. He has wings; he's more than a creeping thing. He stops at his limo.
He turns back to Cominius. We see the pain in Menenius' eyes.
There is no more mercy in him than there is milk in a male tiger. He climbs into his limo. Shuts the door. The limousine drives off, sending up a cloud of dust that swirls around Cominius.
The rejection by Coriolanus has wounded him. Also he is plagued by guilt. He helped create this monster. He pushed Coriolanus into politics. And now Coriolanus has lost his soul, even his humanity, and Rome is to be put to the sword. All his fault. This preys on him.
He stops. He sits on the railroad tracks. Pulls out a little pocket knife and, in the Roman fashion, efficiently slits his wrists. He stares out over the hideous landscape. Blood begins to pool around his stylish shoes. From afar we see him, sitting on the railroad tracks, alone and forlorn in this surreal urban wasteland, like a Samuel Beckett character. He slumps over.
Coriolanus, still in the barber chair, broods silently. Aufidius sits nearby, watching him. The visit from Menenius is troubling Coriolanus.
My partner in this action, You must report to the Volscian lords how
I have borne this business. Aufidius is curiously formal in his response, the estrangement he feels toward Coriolanus growing:
Only their ends You have respected; stopped your ears
The general suit of Rome; never admitted A private whisper, no, not with such
That thought them sure of you.
This last old man, Whom with a cracked heart I have sent to Rome, Loved me above the measure of a father. Shouts and whistles from outside the factory draw their attention.
Volumnia and the others stop -- taking in Coriolanus' savage new demeanor and appearance -- taking in the Acolytes and pagan totems. Volumnia just stands, peering sternly at her son. As if daring him not to crumble before her. He doesn't. Aufidius watches everything closely. It is Virgilia, finally, who bravely approaches:
My lord and husband-- He stop her, almost a warning, with:
These eyes are not the same I wore in Rome.
The sorrow that delivers us thus changed Makes you think so.
Best of my flesh, Forgive my tyranny, but do not say For that "Forgive our Romans." She shows great courage. Stepping forward and kissing him deeply. A long kiss.
0, a kiss Long as my exile, sweet as my revenge. It is a perverse response. In his monomaniacal imagination, his wife's kiss is obsessively equated with his revenge on Rome. He finally moves to Volumnia, simply can't resist her orbital pull.
You gods I prate, And the most noble mother of the world Leave unsaluted. Sink, my knee, in the earth. He kneels before her. It is done with a sense of duty and protocol, not affection.
0, stand up blest. He rises.
Then with no softer cushion than the
I kneel before thee. She quickly and dramatically kneels before him. It is a coup de theatre and a masterpiece of manipulation.
What is this? Your knees to me? To your corrected son?
Thou art my warrior; I hope to frame thee. She indicates Young Martius:
This is a poor epitome of yours, Which by the interpretation of full time May show like all yourself.
 The god of soldiers, Inform thy thoughts with nobleness, that thou may prove To shame invulnerable. Volumnia pulls Young Martius down:
Your knee, sir. She pulls Virgilia down:
Even he, your wife, and myself, Are suitors to you.
I beseech you, peace! Or, if you'd ask, remember this: Do not bid me dismiss my soldiers, or
Again with Rome's mechanics. Tell me not Wherein I seem unnatural. Desire not To ally my rages and revenges with Your colder reasons. Volumnia stands, assuming again a position of strength.
0, no more, no more! You have said you will not grant us anything, For we have nothing else to ask but that Which you deny already; yet we will ask, That, if you fail in our request, the
May hang upon your hardness. Therefore hear us.
Aufidius, and you Volsces, mark; for
Hear naught from Rome in private.  Your request?
Should we be silent and not speak, our
And state of bodies would reveal what
We have led since thy exile. Think with
How more unfortunate than all living
Are we come hither, since that thy sight,
Make our eyes flow with joy, hearts dance with comforts, Constrains them weep and shake with fear and sorrow, Making the mother, wife, and child to see The son, the husband and the father
His country's bowels out.
For myself, son, I propose not to wait on fortune till These wars determine. If I cannot
Rather to show a noble grace, thou shalt
March to assault thy country than to Tread on thy mother's womb That brought thee to this world.
Living to time. Young Martius stands as well and approaches his father, challenging and warlike:
You shall not tread on me. I'll run away till I am bigger, but then I'll fight! Coriolanus stares at him -- the intensity of the boy's aggression is disturbing. And familiar.
I have sat too long. He rises and turns as if to go--
Nay, go not from us thus! Her command stops him. She appeals, quickly getting to the point of her argument:
If it were so that our request did tend To save the Romans, thereby to destroy The Volsces whom you serve, you might
As poisonous of your honor. No, our suit Is that you reconcile them -- so the
May say "This mercy we have showed," the Romans, "This we received," and each in either
Give the all-hail to thee and cry, "Be
For making up this peace!" Coriolanus does not respond. She softens...
Speak to me, son... Still he does not respond. His emotions are roiling. Still she is soft and vulnerable...
Why dost not speak? But softness is not a note she plays naturally. She knows it. Her natural aggressiveness comes out, anger and outrage gradually boiling to the surface:
Thinks thou it honorable for a noble man Still to remember wrongs? Daughter, speak you. He cares not for your weeping. Speak thou, boy. Perhaps thy childishness will move him
Than can our reasons. There's no man in
More bound to his mother, yet here he lets me prate Like one in the stocks! She is assaulting him now, on the attack:
Thou hast never in thy life Showed thy dear mother any courtesy, When she, poor hen, Has clucked thee to the wars and safely
Loaded with honor. Say my request's unjust, And spurn me back; and the gods will
plague thee, That thou restrains from me the duty
To a mother's part belongs! Coriolanus can take no more, turns and begins to walk away-- Volumnia reacts like lightning -- grabbing Virgilia and Young Martius and dragging them to the dirt with her--
Down! Let us shame him with our knees! She claws at the dirt -- like Hecuba -- keening -- a shocking explosion of raw emotion -- almost an incantation:
Down! An end! This is the last. So we will home to Rome, And die among our neighbors. Nay, behold! This boy, that cannot tell what he would
But kneels and holds up hands for fellowship, Does reason our petition with more
Than thou hast to deny it. She remains kneeling, panting for air. Coriolanus looks at her. His noble mother. Clawing in the dirt like an animal. Filthy. Despairing. Her face wet with tears. She looks back up at him. She senses she has failed. It's over.
Come, let us go. She rises slowly, her age showing. Her spirit broken. Or seeming so. She stares at Coriolanus as she rips off the Roman Eagle medal she wears and flings it to the ground. The blood red sky of sunset behind her reflects her passion as she summons up all her strength for a lacerating and icy
This fellow had a Volscian to his mother; His wife is in Corioles and his child
Like him by chance Yet give us our dispatch. I am hushed until our city be afire, And then I'll speak a little. She turns and begins to go. But... We see finally Coriolanus crack. Like a great building crumbling. Like fissures cutting across marble. Emotion floods into him. He lunges forward and grabs her hand. Volumnia stops. Time stands still. He doesn't speak.
O mother mother... What have you done? He falls to his knees, clutching her hand.
Behold, the heavens do ope, The gods look down -- and this unnatural
They laugh at. He buries his head in her, like a lost child:
O my mother, mother! 0! You have won a happy victory for Rome; But for your son - believe it, 0 believe it! - Most dangerously you have with him
(he looks up at her
If not most mortal to him. She looks down at him. His meaning, his foreshadowing, is clear: she has saved Rome, but he knows he is doomed. Rome will live. He will die. This is the price for her victory today.
But let it come. He stands, regains his composure. He slowly walks to Aufidius. He leans close, speaking intimately:
Aufidius, though I cannot make true wars, I'll frame convenient peace. Now, good Aufidius, Were you in my stead, would you have
A mother less? Or granted less? Aufidius?
I dare be sworn you were. And, sir, it is no little thing to make Mine eyes to sweat compassion. But, good sir, What peace you'll make, advise me. We study Aufidius' face. He gives away nothing. Coriolanus turns back to Volumnia. Looks at her. She is victorious. The crimson sky looms over her ominously. And we go to...
A merrier day did never yet greet Rome, No, not the expulsion of the Tarquins. We have all Great cause to give great thanks. He looks to Volumnia.
Behold our patroness, the life of Rome. She is erect and exalted. "The Life of Rome" personified. She ignores her son. Coriolanus will not look at her.
They are like a mafia hit squad, waiting for Coriolanus to return with the peace treaty. Aufidius is deep in thought. His Lieutenant breaks the silence:
How is it with our general?
As with a man by his own charity slain.
Our soldiers will remain uncertain whilst 'Twixt you there's difference; but the
fall of either Makes the survivor heir of all.
I know it, And my pretext to strike at him admits A good construction. A beat. He continues more to himself than them, almost convincing himself.
I raised him, and I pawned Mine honor for his truth; who being so heightened, He watered his new plants with dews of flattery, Seducing so my friends.
So he did, my lord. The army marveled at it; and in the last, When he had carried Rome and that we
For no less spoil than glory-- Aufidius works himself into an intense, neurotic rage:
There was it! For which my sinews shall be stretched upon him. At a few drops of women's rheum, which
As cheap as lies, he sold the blood and
Of our great action -- Therefore shall he die, And I'll renew me in his fall.
Therefore, at your vantage, Ere he express himself or move the people With what he would say, let him feel your sword, Which we will second.
Under your great command. He hands the treaty portfolio to Aufidius:
We have made peace With no less honor to the Volscians Than shame to the Romans.
(handing the treaty to
Read it not, But tell the traitor, in the highest
He hath abused your powers. Coriolanus is ready for Aufidius' ploy. He is amused at the obvious attempt to anger him:
Traitor? How now?
Ay, traitor, Martius.
"Martius"?
Ay, Martius, Caius Martius! Dost thou
I'll grace thee with that robbery, thy
"Coriolanus"? He spins to the others, making the case against Coriolanus with cutting bitterness:
He has betrayed your business and given up, For certain drops of salt, your city Rome- I say "your city" - to his wife and
Breaking his oath and resolution, like A twist of rotten silk; never admitting Counsel of the war, but at his nurse's
He whined and roared away YOUR VICTORY! Coriolanus tries to contain his anger:
Hear'st thou, Mars?
Name not the god, thou boy of tears.
Measureless liar, thou has made my heart Too great for what contains it. "Boy"? 0 slave. Coriolanus' eyes miss nothing a Volscian thug shifting a bead of sweat on another one secretly reaching into his coat for a weapon. Some of the Volscian thugs are clearly nervous. Coriolanus is ready. He prepares himself mentally to die. He is acutely controlled:
Cut me to pieces, Volsces. Men and lads, stain all your edges on me. It is a dare. A challenge.
"Boy"? False hound. If you have writ your annals true, 'tis
That, like an eagle in a dovecote, I Fluttered your Volscians in Corioles. His gaze burns into Aufidius:
Alone I did it "Boy."
Let him die for it. At this command, his men move-- Aufidius steps back as-- The Volscian thugs attack-- With knives, machetes and tire irons-- Coriolanus fights bravely -- disarming two, grabbing their weapons, killing them, fighting back-- Slashing and cutting his way through the killers- Closer and closer to Aufidius, who just watches-- Blood spattering and spraying- But the thugs overpower Coriolanus, there are just too many--
But still he comes on. Body riddled with bullets and cut to bits. He refuses to fall. Like something immortal. An obscene demon of blood. Finally the thugs move away. Coriolanus still stands. Teetering. His face is a swollen mask of blood and gore. Blood flows from his body, pooling around his feet, spreading across the parking lot. Aufidius steps forward. What is left of Coriolanus glares at him through blood. Aufidius slowly pulls his knife. The same knife he was sharpening so carefully at the opening of the story. It has finally found its purpose. Coriolanus looks at him. Then slowly Coriolanus tries to raise one bleeding arm this requires superhuman effort his slashed fingers clutch his shirt he rips it open exposing his breast. Ready. He locks eyes with Aufidius. Aufidius steps to him. Takes his neck. Pulls him onto the knife. Driving it into him. Cradling his head like a lover. They stand like this. Then Coriolanus falls. A pause.
Take him up. No one moves.
Assist. Abrupt cut to--
