What are you looking at?
The wind, Mother... They say a hurricane is on its way... You've been asleep... I was waiting to see you...
If it wasn't for hurricanes we wouldn't have a hurricane season.
I've forgotten what the weather can be like here. I've lived with four seasons so many years now.
I saw on the news they're predicting trouble...
1928 they stacked people like firewood to close a hole in a levee.
It all runs together... like a fingerpainting... I feel like I'm on a boat, drifting...
 Can I do anything for you, Mother? Make anything easier?
Hmmm. There is nothing to do, Caroline. This is what it is... I'm finding it harder to keep my eyes open... my mouth all filled with cotton...
There, there, Miss Daisy... you'll scratch yourself to ribbons...  It's their way of letting go...  ...prob'ly today.
Do you want more medication, Mother? The doctor said you can have all you want.
A friend told me she never had a chance to say goodbye to her mother. (grateful to have the chance) I wanted to thank you, Mother, for bringing me into this world. For raising me so well. 
Are you afraid?
Curious.   What comes next...
The pain's coming more steadily... Her breathing will falter soon... No need for her to suffer..
They built that train station in 1918. Your father was there the day it opened... He said a tuba band was playing...Oom-pah-pah...
Oom-pah-pah, oom-pah-pah...The finest clockmaker in all of the South built that clock...
His name was Mr. Gateau. Mr. Cake.
He was married to a Creole of Evangeline Parish and they had a son.
Did I mention, Mr. Gateau was from birth, absolutely blind.
And when their son came of age, like boys will do, he joined the army. They saw him off at the old train station.
Oh how he worked, for months he did nothing but work on the clock for the great train station.
One day a letter came...
"I am sorry to inform you that your son was killed fighting for his country, at the battle of the Marne. In the death of Sgt. Martin Gateau I lose one of my most trusted men. 
Mr. Gateau, done for the night, went up to his bed.
And their son came home.
They buried him where the Gateau family had been buried for a hundred and seven years...
Mr. Cake went back to work on his clock... laboring to finish...
It was a morning to remember... Papa said there were people everywhere...
Even Teddy Roosevelt had come.
I made it this way... so that perhaps, the boys who were lost in the war might stand and go home again...
... home to farm, to work, have children, to live long, full lives...
Perhaps, my own son might come home again...
I'm sorry if I offended anybody. I hope you enjoy my clock.
Mr Cake was never seen again. Some say he died of a broken heart. Some say he went to sea...
He just rowed...rowed...away...
Do you mind if I make myself a call? I've got somebody watching my little boy.
No, please go call...
I hope I haven't disappointed you, Mother.
Oh honey, you could never disappoint me.
I wished I had more to show for myself. I know you would have liked to have had grandchildren. 
I'm either a step ahead... or a step behind...
What's normal?     A hat full of sand.
What?
 I need my brown suitcase... The envelope...
An envelope?
This one?
I tried to read it a hundred different times... but I couldn't bring myself...
What do you mean?
Read it to me.
 Just the sound of your voice...
It's dated "April 4, 1985." It says, "New Orleans."  "This is my last will and testament... (which starts to engage her) I don't have much to leave... few possessions, no money really... I will go out of this world the same way I came in, alone and with nothing. (finding herself engaged) All I have is my story... I'm writing it now while I still remember it..."
"My name is Benjamin..."
"Benjamin Button... and I was born under unusual circumstances."
The war to end all wars had ended.
I was told it was an especially good night to be born...
 Why are you here?
Thomas, I'm afraid she's not going to survive...
That's enough...! All of you!
I came as quickly as I could... I'm sorry I took so long, the streets are filled with people...
You are going to be alright, my dearest darling... I will not let anything happen to you...
She gave her life for me... And for that I am forever grateful...
Mr. Button...!
I'm sorry... I'm so sorry...
What are you doing there!?
What do you have there?
I could've sworn I heard somebody knockin'...
I guess not...
The air smells sweet...
You look very handsome tonight, Ms. Queenie, handsome as I ever seen you... The green matches your eyes...
 It isn't everyday a war's over, Mr. Weathers...  
Hambert's back in town... came home legless, but he home... we're gonna throw a party for him... help get himself situated...  I know you was sweet on him one time...
Sweeter than I shoulda been... Lost his legs you say? "You never know what's comin' for you."
Ms. Simone messed herself...
She got to stop doing that, or it's diapers for her... I'll be right there, Mrs. Jameson...
It sure is nice out here, Mr. Weathers...
Awful nice, Ms. Queenie... Come out back for a moment... take your mind away from things...
 Just a moment's time...
What in God's name...?!!
What is that?     A fish crawl out of the river...?
God in heaven!
My Goodness, the Lord did something here...!
Look like a milk wagon run over it... three times... and back...
I didn't see it layin' there... I hope I didn't hurt it none... steppin' on it like that...
We best leave it to the police... I'll go --
It's for sure nobody wanted to keep it...
Where are you, Queenie...?
Hold your water...  Go see to them.
Queenie Apple... she went and messed herself all over again...
Jane Childress start her a bath... and mind your business, Mrs. Duprey... You'll be messing yourself soon enough too!
 Somebody stole my necklace...
I'll be right with you, Mrs. Hollister...
You may be as ugly as an old pot... but you still a child of God...
Queenie, Apple... she won't go take a bath wit'out you...
Mercy, I'll be right there.
My sister gave those pearls to me... I can't find them anywhere... People are stealing my jewelry...!
They're right here, Mrs. Hollister, right 'round your pretty white neck...  Come on now...
Dr. Rose has arrived for his visit...
... He's nearly blind from cataracts... I'm not sure he can hear... His bones indicate severe arthritis... His skin has lost all elasticity... His hands and feet are ossified... He has all the deterioration, the infirmities, not of a newborn, but of a man well in his eighties on the way to his grave...
You mean to say he's dying?
Of old age. His body is failing him before his life's begun.
Where did he come from?
 It's my sister's child... From Lafayette. She had an unfortunate adventure.  The poor child got the worse of it... came out white...
There are places for 'unwanted' babies like these, Queenie... There's no room for another mouth to feed here... The Nolan Foundation, despite their good intentions, thinks this place is a large nuisance as it is... A baby here --
 You said he don't have long.
Queenie -- some creatures aren't meant to survive.
He is a miracle, that's for certain... just not the kind of miracle one hopes to see...
You all listen...
We have a visitor that will be staying with us for a little while... My sister had a child but couldn't see right by it... He's known as...  Benjamin... (she likes the sound of it) Benjamin... He's not a well child... so we need to take very good care of him...
He's prematurely old... Doctor Rose said he don't have much time on this earth...
Join the club.
Hambert sends his remembrance to you.
 Are you right out of your mind? I know you don't got all the parts it takes to make one of your own... but this isn't yours to keep... this isn't even human kind...
 Mr. Weathers. Stay with me tonight.
"You never know what's comin' for you."
I found a home...
Is any of this true?
You have such a lovely voice.
Some pages seem to be torn out here...
There's an old streetcar token.
That clock... Just kept going, year after year after year...
"...I didn't know I was a child. I thought I was like everyone else who lived there, an old man, in my "golden years."
Stop bangin' that fork... (fixing it in his arthritic hand) It's for eating, not for playin' with... And use your napkin, please Mr. Benjamin...
What's there?
Benjamin! That's dangerous... Come back here...!
I loved her very much. She was my mother.
Somedays I feel like I'm different from the day before...
Everybody feels different about themselves one way or another. We're all goin' the same way, just taking different roads to get there... You're on your own road, Benjamin.
How much longer do I have to live, Mother?
Just be thankful you got what you're given. You already here longer than you supposed to be.
Some nights, I would have to sleep alone.
I didn't mind. I would listen to the house breathing. All the people sleeping. I felt safe.
It was a place of great routine... Every morning at 5:30, no matter the weather... General Winslow, U.S. Army Retired... raised the flag...
Mrs. Sybil Wagner, once a noted opera singer... well, she'd sing, Wagner...
We're gonna put some life into these old sticks for you... get you walkin'...
Breakfast was served promptly at six.
How we doin'?    What's that say there?
Bis...
Biscuits... and...
Graby...
Think. That's a 'v' not a 'b.' Say it.
Gravy.
Now you talkin'!
How many parts butter we got?
Four...
How many parts flour?
Two...
How much is four and two?
Six.
You're a regular addin' machine...
Dinner was served promptly at six.
Tomato, brown sugar, salt, myasses...
"Molasses"...
I learned to read when I was five. My grandfather was a dresser for a famous actor. He'd bring home every play for me to read.  "Kind keepers of my weak decaying age, Let dying Mortimer here rest himself. Even like a man new haled from the rack. So fare my limbs with long imprisonment. And these gray locks, the pursuivants of death, Nestor-like aged in an age of care, Argue the end of Edmund Mortimer."
You thought I was plain ignorant, didn't you?
The actor my grandfather worked for was John Wilkes Booth. He killed Abraham Lincoln. You never know...
When's dessert...?
When it's served. Now sit your wrinkly butt back down, Mr. Lee.
On Saturday nights I would go to Queenie's church...
What can I do for you, Sister?
Her parts are all twisted up inside so she can't have little children...
Lord, if you could see clear to forgive this woman her sins so she can bear the fruit of the womb.  Out damnable affliction!
 And what's this old man's irrediction?
He's got the devil on his back... trying to ride him into the grave before his time...
 Out, Zebuchar! Out, Beelzebub!  How old are you?
I'm seven, but I look a lot older.
 God bless you.    He's seven!
This is a man who has optimism in his heart! Belief in his soul! We are all children in the eyes of God. Now we are going to get you out of that chair... we're gonna have you walk... (his hands on Ben's shoulders) In the name of God's glory, rise up!
Now God is going to see you the rest of the way... He's going to see this little old man walk without the use of a crutch or a cane...! He's going walk by himself on faith and divine inspiration alone...! We'll show that Devil where to go...! Walk on...!
Don't touch him!  Rise up, old man!
Rise up like Lazarus!
I said rise up!!
Yes, and say hallelujah!  Now walk, my old friend... Walk on...!
Let the Lord carry you... ...
Now, when I look back on it, it was kind of miraculous... But you know the saying, "...the Lord Giveth and the Lord Taketh away..."
Praise be to the Lord on the highest...!
There were birthdays...
And mortality was a common visitor to our house... People came and went... Death was so frequent, I was never afraid of it.
You could hear when someone left us... there was a silence in the house...
It was a wonderful place to grow up. I was with people who had put away all the inconsequences of life, left in a state of purely being...wondering about the weather...the temperature of a bath...the light at the end of the day...
For everyone that died, someone would come to take their place...
... My first wife and I are captured by neighbor tribe, cannibals...
I escaped across the river...
My wife, she can't swim, so she eaten.
 That's Mr. Oti... He's an acquaintance of an acquaintance of mine...he'll be stayin' with us in the staff quarters for awhile...
 ...Second wife stepped on viper and dies...  It was bad luck to be married to Mr. Oti.
I am captured with six others by Baschiele tribe. They sell us to a big white man...
The Big White Man brings us to St. Louis, where they make our village at the 1904 World's Fair... They have us livin' in these little huts like we're livin' in Africa... people behind bars staring at us... we told not to look at them... to just go about our normal lives... what the hell they talkin' about... ?
At night we're done bein' "savages..." we go over the wall into The Rosebud... we drank and laughed until the sun come up... and then we savages again...
I hear you not so old as you looking. You just foolin' everybody. What happen, you get Madjembe?
What's a madjembe?
Worms.
I don't think so. This is just how I am.
You want to get a cold root beer?
 It's dangerous.
Who said that?
 ...Come on little man...
Hurry...
...Another white man come to my country and say he want to talk to me...
Then I am in the monkey house at "Philadelphia Zoological Park." Three thousand people show up my first day...
What's it like living in a cage?
It stinks. The monkeys, they do some tricks... I throw spear... I wrestle with Kowali, she is orangutan... They have me file my teeth like a cannibal...
When I'm not playing with monkeys - - they want me to run to bars in my cage with teeth to scare little children...
Why didn't you go back home?
War between English and Dutch people had broken up kingdom.
What did you do?
I leave zoo. Go here. Go there. Everything okay. But I alone.
You were all alone?
You'll see little man, plenty times you be alone. You different like us, it's gonna be that way. But I tell you a little secret I find out. We know we alone. Fat people, skinny people, tall people, white people... they just as alone as us... But they scared shitless...
Not a thing wrong with being alone... no sir...
I think about the river I grew up on. It would be good to sit by my river again.
There's my little man. You ready, sugar.
 Always ready. Always ready.  Filamena, Mr. Benjamin.
 It's a pleasure to meet you, Sir.
 You can find your own way home, can't you?
The St. Charles Avenue line to Napoleon...
Where in God's name have you been?!!
Like to scare the Holy Hell out of me! I was so worried about you...you take my breath away...
It had been the best day of my life.
How's her breathing... ?
Shallow.
 They're sayin' it's gonna reach us late in the day... I'm goin' to get my baby and take him to my sister's... they said there's nothin' to worry about here in the hospital...Nurses are right here if you need them...I'll see you in about an hour if that'll be okay...
No, that's fine...please...
Was there just company?
Dorothy had to go home...
Caroline...
"On Sundays the families would come and visit...
It was Thanksgiving 1930, I met the person who changed my life forever.
Well, Benjamin...                                        *
* Why, good day Mrs. Fuller...                             *
Benjamin is just fine...                                 *
* Good people, Supper is soived.                *
We pray to Bembe... the creator of all living things... she retired after all that work...
 Did you know turkeys aren't really birds...?
Why do you say that?
They're in the pheasant family. They can hardly fly. It's sad don't you think? A bird, that can't fly.
I like birds that can't fly. They're easy to eat.
 I have something to tell you all...
While we're giving thanks for God's blessings... I've had a miracle happen. (she touches her stomach) The Lord saw fit to answer my prayers.
What does she mean "answered her prayers?"
She's going to have a baby, silly. That's what my mother said when I was going to have a little brother. He didn't live long though. He didn't breathe right...
This is the picture of Old Man Kangaroo at five in the afternoon...                                             *
It's the time Old Man Kangaroo got                * his beautiful hind legs just as...                * I hope I'm saying this right...                   * just as Big God Ngog had promised.                * You can see that it's five                        * o'clock, because Big God Ngog's                   * pet tame clock says so.                           * Isn't that something?                 *
Alright, once more... but                         * afterwards (forgetting Benjamin's                 * age) both of you must promise to                  * go to bed...                                      *
 Are you sleeping?
 Come on...
 Where are we going?
Under here...
Nobody knows about this but us.
Will you light it?
I'm not supposed to use matches...
Don't be chicken...
I'll tell you a secret then you tell me one...  I saw mommy kissing another man. Her face was red from it.
Your turn to tell.
I'm younger than I look.
 You don't seem like an old person... like my grandma... Are you sick?
 I heard Tizzy and my mother whisper. They said I was going to die soon.  But I fooled them so far.
You are different than anybody I have ever met. Can I?
What are you doing under there? Who's idea was this candle?
It's after midnight, you come right out here and get back up to bed...! (and for Benjamin, but saying it to Daisy) You are not to be playing together! Play with people your own age...!  Now, you come back to bed, young lady...! You're too young to be wandering around in the night by yourself... (and a last word to Benjamin) You should be ashamed of yourself!
You are a different child... a man child. People aren't going to understand how different you are.
 What's wrong with me, Mother?
God hasn't said yet. Now, back to bed and behave yourself.
 You get used to it...
 You get back in that bed or I'll cane your old ass!
Did I ever tell you I've been struck by lightning seven times. Once, when I was fixing a leak on the roof.
Once, when I was crossing the road to get the mail...
I never forgot her blue eyes...
Are you alright, Mother?
This man. He loved you from the first time he saw you.
 Nobody has ever loved me that way.
 Go on.
He crossed out something... and then he's written... "When..."
"...When the baby came things were different..."
I moved into my own room in the attic... I realized, despite a house filled with people that I loved, I was alone...
I come to say goodbye. I'm going away.
Going away?   Where?
I don't figure that out yet. I will send you a postcard when I get to there.
What about your friend?   The tall lady?
We're not friends anymore. That's what happens with tall people.
Goodbye...
I spent a lot of time by myself that year...
Until...
Hello...
I'm moving in today.
Welcome... we was expecting you...  Could you show her upstairs? 
He's as old as the hills. Blind too. Can hardly get around, he won't be a bother much longer.
I guess as long as he stays out from underfoot.
I'm Benjamin...
 As hard as I try, I can't remember her name. Mrs. Lawson, or Mrs. Hartford, or maybe it was Maple? It's funny how sometimes the people we remember the least, make the greatest impression on us.
I remember she wore diamonds... and she always dressed in fine clothing as if she was going out. Although, she never did and nobody would ever come to visit her.
...She taught me how to play the piano...
It isn't how well you play, it's how you feel about what you're playing.  Try this.
You cannot help but put your entire self into the music.
There were many changes going on, some you could see... some you couldn't.
Hair, had started growing, in all sorts of places...
Along with other things...
I felt like I could do anything, that I could sprout wings...
Oh, darlin', the pain...
I'll get the nurse...
You're not feeling too good?
Nobody seems to know whether to stay or leave. The roads are filled from New Orleans to Baton Rouge already. I think I'm gonna ride it out. (finishing with the drip) There, that should make things easier.
 Have you had a chance to say your goodbyes?
My father waited four hours for my brother to get here from Boger City. He couldn't go without him.
She seems like a sweet woman.
I haven't spent as much time as I would have like with her the last few years.
You busy?
 The next page says...
...Queenie would let me go with Mr. Daws to Bridge City..To watch the boats go up and down the river...
These were hard times... people were doing anything they could to find work...
Did I ever tell you I was struck by lightning seven times? Once, when I was in a field tending to my cows.
 My fourt' hand didn't show up... Anybody want to make $2 for a day's work around here...
What's wrong, nobody wants to get their hands dirty...! Nobody wants to do an honest days work for an honest day's pay...!
 He never pays... He always says he'll have to owe it to you...
Are all you afraid of workin' for a livin'? Somebody got to want a job...
I do...!
You got your sea legs old man?
 I do. I think.
That's good enough for me! Get your ass on board, we'll sure as hell find out!
I was as happy as I could be... I would do anything...
I needs a volunteah.
Yes, Captain!
 Scrape off this bird shit.
Right away, sir...!
And I actually was going to be paid for something I would have done for free.
I'll put you on the books... pay you next time around...
His name was Captain Mike Clark... He'd been on boats since he was seven...
... What were you born to do, old timer?
I haven't found out yet.
You haven't found out yet?! How old are you, Benjamin, seventy somethin' or other?
Not as old as I look.
 Tha's a good one..." You older than Hades you creaky old bastard! What the hell you been doing with your life?
It's a short story...
Can you still get it up?
 I do every morning.
The old pole? The hard'n?     Can you still get it up?
 I guess.
When was the last time you had a woman, you creaky old bastard...?
Never.
Never!
Not that I know of.
 You been on this earth for more than seventy years and you never got any?! That's the saddest thing I ever heard in my life. Never?
Never.
Well, then, hell man, you comin' with me!!
He took me to meet some friends...
You din't say?     What did your father do?
I never met my father.
You're a lucky bastard! All father's want to do is hold you down!.. Out on my father's boat, working da two-a-days... This littl' fat bastard, "tug Irish," what they calls them. They say the Irish the only one's stupid `nough to work a tug. Them and the Portuguese, as we all know how stupid them Portuguese is. I fin'ly get up the nerves and tell him... "I don't wanta spend da rest of my life on a goddamn tugboat...!" You know what I'm sayin'?
You didn't want to spend the rest of your life on a tugboat.
Absolutely, damn right! So you know what my father says? He says "Who the hell you think you are?" "What the hell you think you can do?" I tell him. "Well if you askin' -- I want to be a artist." He laughs. He says, "If God wanted you to be an artist he would made you one." "God wanted you to work a tugboat just like me, and that's what you goin' to do?" "Now, if I ever hear you mention art again, I'll throw you overboard!" Well, I went and I show him... I made myself an artist...
A tattoos artist...! I puts every one on myself!
You have to skin me alive to take my art away from me now! When I'm dead I'm going to send him my arm!  
 But you're a tugboat captain.
Captain Mike, we're ready for you and your friend...
Let's go old timer... Break your cherry... This one's on me...
 And here's you pay for today... Don't ever let anybody tell you Captain Mike didn't give a man what he deserved...
 I thought it was $2 for a day's work...
"you can't put a price on education..."
It was a night to remember...
How are you tonight, Grandpa?
Clean yourself up...
Is that any better?
Let's go... Time's a wastin'...
Ohhh...!
 Come by anytime...
Again?
Again?
My hat's off to you old timer.
Again?
Again?
What are you, Dick Tracy or something? I've got to rest...
 Again?
Thank you...
 No, thank you...
Have a nice night...
You'll be here tomorrow?
Every night, but Sunday...
It sure made me understand the value of earning a living... the things it can buy you..
It's awful wet out. Can I offer you a ride somewhere...?
That's very kind of you, Sir.
My name is Thomas, Thomas Button.
I'm Benjamin.
 Benjamin... Yes, Benjamin... It's a pleasure to know you.
Would you like to stop and have a drink, Benjamin?
What will it be sir?
I'll have whatever he's having.
A Sazerac for both of us...with whiskey instead of brandy...
You don't drink do you?
It's a night for firsts...
How is that?
I've never been to a whore house either.
It's an... experience...
It certainly is.  I'm not very experienced about a lot of things.
That isn't a bad thing.
There's a first time for everything.
True enough. I don't mean to be rude... but your hands seem awful bent... It must be quite painful?
I don't really know what I have. I have some form of a disease. I have a lot of catching up to do.
What kind of a disease?
I was born old.
I'm sorry.
 No need to be. Nothing wrong with old age.
I'm sorry about your disease.
My mother says we're all born with something...
Your mother?
I'm adopted.
... My wife passed away many years ago...
 I'm very sorry.
She died in childbirth.
 To children.
 To mothers and fathers...
What line of work are you in, Mr. Button?
Buttons. "Button's Buttons." There isn't a button we don't make. Our biggest competition is B.F. Goodrich and his infernal zippers...
Would you gentlemen like another?
One more Benjamin?
If you'll let me pay for it, Mr. Button...
What kind of work do you do?
 I'm a tugboat man.
I enjoyed talking to you...
I enjoyed drinking with you...
 Benjamin...
Would you mind, if time to time, I stopped by to say hello...?
 Anytime.
 Goodnight, Benjamin.
 Absolutely... Mr. Button...
Where have you been!?
I listened to some music.... I --
I met some people.
I think mama... I'm going to...
I loved the weekends when she would come and spend the night with her grandmother.
 Do you want to see something?   We have to keep it secret.
 Get dressed. I'll meet you behind the kitchen...
Ssssh...  Can you swim?
I can do anything you can do...
Put this on...
We have to go fast...
What's wrong with him?
I think he has mejembe.  Captain Mike... could you take us out?
You know what day it is?
Sunday.
Do you know what dat mean?
It means I was very drunk last night.
You're drunk every night.
Is that a girl?
A close friend... I wanted to show her the River.
I'm not supposed to be joy-ridin' with civilians... I could lose my license.
 What you standin' there for!
She put in for repair... a wounded duck... She's flyin' now...
What does it take to build something like that?
Imagine all the places they're going to see...
 I wish we could go with them...
 I wish we could have... 
Did you say something, Mother?
It seems to be getting worse.
Are you hearing me, mother?
Look at that... time just seeped out of me...
What?
Somebody will come and mop it up and that will be the end...
Do you want me to go on reading?
"Things were changing quickly."
I don't know how it's possible, you seem to have more hair...
 What if   I was to tell you I wasn't getting   older -- I was getting younger   than everybody else...
Well, I'd feel very sorry for you... to have to see everybody you love, die before you.
That would be an awful responsibility...
I had never thought about life or death that way before...
Benjamin... We're meant to lose the people we love. How else would we know how important they are to us.
And one fall day... a familiar visitor came knocking on our door...
Would you like to go for a walk?
She had taught me how to play the piano.
And she taught me what it meant to miss somebody.
I had gone to a whore house, I'd had my first drink, I had said goodbye to one friend and buried another... In 1937, when I was coming to end of the 17th year of my life, I packed by bag.
...and said goodbye...
I knew, life being what it was, I would probably never see them again...
 Good luck, son.
Goodbye, Mother...
Benjamin... Benjamin...
Where are you going?
To sea.    I'll send you a postcard.
From everywhere. Write me a postcard from everywhere...
And I went off to sea...
 I think I should find out what's going on...
 There's a box of them... in a velvet bag...
Is this what you're looking for?
Looking for?
You said you wanted this?
Of course.
Can you imagine... He sent me postcards from everywhere he went... every place he worked... Newfoundland... Baffin Bay... Liverpool... Glasgow...Narvik...
Please keep reading, sugar...
 "I had gone.."
"... With Captain Mike's crew on the "Chelsea"..."
Captain Mike had contracted for three years with Moran Brothers Tug and Salvage... The old ship had been refitted with a diesel engine, and a new sea winch... We went around Florida and up the Atlantic seaboard...
We were a crew of seven now... Captain Mike and me... the Cookie... Prentiss Mayes from Wilmington, Delaware...
...The Brody twins... Rick and Vic...
Who got along fine at sea... but for some reason, once they were on dry land... couldn't stand the sight of each other...
There was John Grimm, who fit his name... from Belvedere, South Dakota...
You know one in every eight boats never returns, all hands lost at sea.
...and Pleasant Curtis who never said a word to anyone... except to himself...
I wrote him constantly... told him everything I was doing...
...I told him they had invited me to New York to audition for the School of American Ballet...
One of the "corps"... another dancing gypsy...
Oh. Then he wrote me... "I've met somebody... and I've fallen in love..."
Places everybody... Once again...
"...I've met somebody...and I've fallen in love..." My, that was over...  ...sixty years ago.
Did you love him, mother?
What can a girl know about love?
 "...We were working in Murmansk, Russia..."
Murmansk is on the Barrent Sea, the only ice-free ocean port in the Soviet Union...
Benjamin...
 Tell me how's it happen you showed up you were no bigger than a bollard. Now either I drink a helluva lot more than I think I do, or you sprouted... What's your secret?
Well Captain, you do drink a lot...
 Goddamn right I do!
We stayed at a small hotel with the grand name, "The Winter Palace."
I saws this tattoo puts on a man's back in Singapore by Sakumoro, the greatest tattoo artist ever lived. I puts it on myself from mem'ry.
This idn't just anoter bird! Its heart rate's twelve hunerd beats a minute...! Its wings beats eighty times a second...! If you was to stop their wings from beatin, they would be dyin' in less than ten seconds...This is no ordinary bird, this is a frikkin' miracle! They slowed down the wings 
Does you know what the figure- eight is the mathematical symbol of...?!
Infinity!
Everybody, no matter what differences they had, the languages, the color of their skin, had one thing in common... they were drunk every single night...
Would you wait, please...
Her name was Elizabeth Abbott. She was not beautiful. She was plain as paper... But she was as pretty as any picture to me...
What are you looking at?
If you must know, we have a long standing agreement never to go to bed sober. Isn't that right darling?
Her husband was Walter Abbott...He was Chief Minister of the British Trade Mission in Murmansk... and he was a spy...
I broke the heel off of one of my shoes...I don't usually walk around in my bare feet...
They were long days there...
And longer nights...
One particular night... when I was having trouble sleeping...
I'm sorry... I can't sleep...
I was going to make some tea...would you like some?
Milk...? Honey...?
Some honey, thank you.
Do you like flies with your tea?
You must let it steep for a minute...
Steep?
Sit. There's a proper way to make tea.
Where I'm from, they just want it to be hot.
You're a seaman? I don't mean to be rude...but aren't you rather old to be working on a boat?
There's no age limit... as long as you can do the work...
You have trouble sleeping?
I didn't know I did... I usually sleep like a baby. Something kept me up.
I never sleep... Well, rarely anyway...
My father, when he was in his eighties, was so sure he was going to die in his sleep... He would only take naps during the afternoon... so that death couldn't catch him...
Did he?
Did he what?
Die in his sleep?
He died sitting in his favorite chair listening to his favorite program on the radio.
 He must have known something.
My husband's the British Trade Minister. We've been here fourteen months... We were supposed to be going to Peking... but it just never did work out. It never does seem to work out. Have you been to the Far East?
I haven't really been anywhere. I mean outside different harbors.
Where are you from?
New Orleans, Louisiana.
 I didn't know there was another one.
I've never been to America. Everywhere else. But not America. Am I missing anything?
 The Mississippi River.
And she told me all the places she had been, and what she had seen...
I can tell you what bars look like in places all over the world...
And we talked until just before the dawn...
Thank you for the tea...
...And we went back to our rooms... to our separate lives...
And every night... we would meet in the middle Of the night...
A hotel in the middle of the night can be a magical place...
A mouse stopping and running and stopping...
A radiator hissing. A sink dripping. A floor creaking. A curtain blowing.
There is something peaceful, even comforting, knowing that people you love are asleep in their beds, where nothing can harm them...
Elizabeth and I would talk through the night until just before dawn...
I may have given you the wrong impression.
The wrong impression?
You must think I don't love my husband.
Why do you say that?
Married women don't usually sit with strange men in a hotel in the middle of the night. I certainly don't.
 I don't know what married women do or don't do.
Let's get one thing straight. I love him very much. I happen to think he is one of the smartest and most considerate men I ever met. It is not his fault I decided to spend my life in his shadow.
He started to take his pants off... I'm afraid he misread me completely...
Do you notice how people look better through a wine glass...
You're a good looking man with or without a wine glass...
We are all just crossing in the night. Sometimes we intersect.
I should go to bed... he'll be up soon.
It was the first time a woman had ever kissed me. It's something you never forget.
Are you upset, Mother?
Would you like some socks?
Do you want me to stop reading?
It must have been very cold. I'm glad he had somebody to keep him warm.
 "I couldn't wait to see her again."
 I'm not dressed --
You're delicious just as you are...
Don't bother with the cheese or the wine here, they're quite common... but the caviar and the vodka are plentiful and sublime...
Take your time... If you eat it all at once there will be nothing left to enjoy... savor it...
 Now, a swallow of vodka...
You haven't been with many women have you?
No. Not many. At least none on a Sunday.
 I feel like I'm with a virgin.
When I was nineteen, I tried to become the first woman to swim the English Channel...
The current was so strong...that for every stroke I took... I was pushed two strokes back...
 I swam for 32 hours... I was only two miles from the French shore...
 When it started to rain...
 When I couldn't go any further, and I just stopped...
They asked me whether I would try again...?
Why wouldn't I?
I never did. As a matter of fact, I have never done much of anything with my life after that...
Your hands are very rough... you have grease under your nails...
I can feel the wind on your face...
I'm afraid it's the witching hour...
It took me a long time to go to sleep.
Do I look okay? I borrowed it from one of the men. It's his church suit.
You take my breath away.
The thing about clothing is, it should make you feel comfortable, then you will be comfortable... Come, let's take a walk...
I feel so much younger when I'm with you...
That's such a nice thing to say. You make me feel years younger, too. I wish I was. I would change so many things. I would undo all of my mistakes.
What mistakes?
I kept waiting, thinking I would do something to change my circumstance... Do something... But I never did... It's an awful waste, you can never get it back... wasted time...
 If we're going to have an affair, you're never to look at me during the day, we must always part by sunrise, and we can never say "I love you..."
And when it is over I will send you a card that will simply say goodbye... Those are the rules...
Are you as cold as I am?
 My god, colder.
You can't even break a bottle here.
Get a key.
She was the first woman who ever loved me.
Hold it...
We saw each other every night... we always used the same room...
But each time seemed new and different...
 Elizabeth...
 You should swim the English channel again.
Until one night...
Roosevelt says we all got to do our part! After them Japs attacked Pearl Harbor everyone's got to! The Chelsea's been commissioned to serve in the United States Navy, to repair, tow, salvage and rescue... Anybody don't want to go to war, now's the time to say so... Once you set foot on that boat again, you're in the Navy friend!
 I'll go captain!
Easy old timer.  I'll hold it against no man. But speak up now or forever hold your water.
I was planning on talking to you Cap'n Mike... My wife's doing poorly. I'd like to see her one more time...
 You're free to get home any way you can Mr. Mayes.
 Who do you intend to have cook then? One of the leading causes of death at sea is food poisoning, right after inadequate safety equipment.
I grew up cooking, sir. I'll take the job, if I'm not too old to serve.
You a real Johnny on the Spot, Benjamin. I'll take any able bodied mens who wants kick shit out of the Japs and the Huns.
Then that's it! We's goin' to war, gentlemen!
She had left a note. She wrote, "it was nice to have met you." That was it.
And so, I went to war.
It wasn't the war we expected. We would tow crippled ships... scraps of metal...  
There was a man assigned with us... The Chief Gunner loved the Navy, and most of all, he loved America.
There is no other country in the world...! When YOU spell America, A.M.E.R.I.C.A. You're spelling freedom...!
His name was Dennis Smith and he was a full blooded Cherokee... His family had been in America for over five hundred years.
You have these pacifists. They say they won't fight on conscience. Where would we be if everybody decided to act according to their conscience?
 Keeps it down, would you chief!
 Where else can you shoot white people and get away with it...
I worked in the kitchen...
 You're from the Kentucky mountains aren't you? It must be pretty there..
There's something not normal about him.
 Whoever said "War is hell," doesn't know shit from shinola.
We were towing a British freighter, that had gone dead in the water, 800 miles to Halifax for repair...
I've been watching you. You seem trustworthy. If something happens to me... could you see this gets to my wife...?
He had given me all of his pay... he hadn't spent a dime of it...
If anything happens I want my family to know I was thinking about them, and if I could have, I'd have come back home.
 All hands on deck!!!
The war found us.
A transport carrying 900 men had been hit by a torpedo. We were first to arrive at the scene...
There wasn't a sound...
 We can't run from the fucker and we can't hide...! There's only one thing we can do...!  Battle Stations...!!!
Look at what they did! They shot holes in me! They shots the hell out my paintin'!
You've seen a lot of things. Tell me it's going to be alright.
You're going to heaven Captain Mike. You're going to heaven.
You can be mad as a mad dawg at the way things wents... You can swear, curse the fates, regret every'ting you ever dids... but when it comes to the end... You have to lets go...
Give me a hand, old man...
736 men died that day... I said my goodbyes to the Cherokee, Dennis Smith, John Grimm who was right, he was going to die there... I sent Pleasant Curtis' wife his money... I said goodbye to the twin, Vic Brody...
And to Mike Clark... Captain of the tugboat "Chelsea."
You mind...
I said goodbye to all the other men... who had dreams of their own... All the men who wanted to be plumbers or singers or insurance salesmen or doctors... or lawyers or Indian chiefs.
Out here, death didn't seem normal.
This don't get fixed...
...I'd never seen a hummingbird that far out to sea before...
In the spring of 1945.... when I was 26 years old... I went home...
Is your mother home?
She's gettin' supper ready....
 Queenie...
Lord have mercy....you're home...
 Who is that mama?
Your brother, Benjamin...
I didn't know he was my brother.
 There's a shit load of things you don't know...
 You look like you've been born again... you're younger than the springtime... I think that preacher laid the hands on you brought you a second life... I knew the moment I saw you -- you were special... Every night I got on my knees asking the Good Lord to bring you back safely. Remember what I told you...?
You never know what's comin' for you.
Did you learn anything worth repeating?
I saw a lot of things.
You seen some pain.
Some joy too?
Where's Tizzy?
Mr. Weathers died in his sleep one night last April. He's sleeping comfortably now in the cemetery on St. James street, God rest his soul...
I'm so sorry...
There's only one or two of them left now... They all just about new... waitin' their turn like everybody else... I am so glad to have I you back. Now we got to find you some proper work and get you married right...
You're wasting your time... he's stone deaf... You'll be staying in what was Mrs. DeSeroux's room now, you're too much of a man to stay in the attic anymore.
It's a funny thing about coming home. Smells the same. Looks the same. Feels the same.
Did I ever tell you I've been struck by lightning seven times. Once I was sitting in my truck listening to the radio.
You realize what's changed, is you...
And one evening, not long after I had been back...
Oh, excuse me... is Queenie here...?
Daisy... it's me, Benjamin.
Benjamin...Oh my God it's you... Of course it's you...
Benjamin, how are you? It's been such a long time... There's so much I want to know... When did you come back?
Just a few weeks ago...
I spoke to Queenie...she told me you were in the war...somewhere at sea... I was so worried about you...
 I'm okay.
When I had left she was a girl... and a woman had taken her place...
I can't get over you -- You are so lovely...
You stopped writing.
I feel terrible about it...  
...Beautiful.
He said, "The most beautiful," Mother.
What else did he say about...
He said...
"...Everything, in that moment, had changed between us..."
I can't get over you're home... I've been planning to come by for awhile... my grandmother, you remember Grandma Fuller... of course you remember her... she passed away...
I heard that... I'm sorry...
I've been wanting to get some of her things...
I can't believe I open the door, and you're actually standing there...It must be fate... What do they call it, "Kismet"? I read a book about a man named Edgar Cayce, a psychic, everything is predetermined...I like to think it's fate. What do you think, Benjamin?
I don't know how it works, but I'm sure glad it happened...
 Have you been to New York...? It's just across the bridge from me... I can actually see the Empire State Building if I stand on my bed... Where have you been? Tell me everything. The last time you wrote you said you were in Russia? I always wanted to go to Russia... Is it as cold as they say...? You wrote you met somebody... did it work out...?
 Remember this?
...This is the picture of Old Man Kangaroo at five in the afternoon..."
You don't look like an old man anymore...You always said you were different... I think you must be...
Are you hungry? Would you like to get something to eat?
I would love that...
...I danced for a man named Ballenchine...He's a famous choreographer. He said I had a perfect line. They asked Ballenchine to describe what he did. He said, "I'm a carpenter." Isn't that amazing? In one of his rehearsals a dancer fell. He put it into the production. Can you imagine that in a classical ballet? A dancer intentionally falling? He isn't the only one, Agnes DeMille, Lincoln Kirstein, Richard Pleasant, Lucia Chase...There's a whole new word for dance now, it's called abstract..."
...They have torn up all the conventions... the straight up and down style, all the things that bound dancers...It's not about the formality of the dance...the classical structure...it's about what the dancer's feeling...there are no rules; the movement can be tense or relaxed, abrupt or flowing, carefree or somber, it may suggest love or hate, attraction or repulsion. The unexpected shifts of weight or energy -- not just to shock but to reinvent tradition...putting the familiar form to new and unexpected uses. It's so basic Just you alone with your body...
They understand America's vigor and physicality -- they understand the freshness of the American people at their most modern, at their best.
And she told me about this world that she was so attracted to... names that didn't mean a thing to me...I didn't really hear very much of what she was saying.
 Oh my god, I've been just talking about myself...
I'm enjoying listening...
I didn't know you smoked...
I'm old enough. I`m old enough for a lot of things....
Yes you are...
I have to go back tomorrow... I wish I could stay...
In New York we stay up all night... I eat breakfast in a diner on Houston with red booths and watch the sun come up over the buildings... there's always something to do...
Dancers... don't need costumes or scenery.
I could imagine dancing completely naked...
Have you read "D.H. Lawrence," his books were banned... The words are like making love....
In our group... you have to trust people... not be afraid... Sex... is a big part of it... A lot of the dancers... are lesbians... A woman wanted me to sleep with her....
Does that upset you?
Which part?
That someone wanted to sleep with me.
People should want to sleep with you... You're very desirable...
Let's go back to the house... or get a room somewhere... we can put down your coat...
It's not that I don't want to... I just can't... not tonight....Its just not...
I'm old enough.
Go back to New York, Daisy... Be with the people you are so fond of... You can only be young once...
Do you think you are too old for me... I've been with older men...
You only get so many chances to be with someone... I let her go... and I missed it...
You look so handsome in that suit... your hair...
They're sayin' the hurricane's going to miss us... blow right on by...
Oh, that's great.
Isn't that good news, Mother?
Good news?
The hurricane.     It is going to miss us.
I'll just stay under the blankets with my mother. She said nothing would happen to me.
Benjamin?
Would you like me to keep reading?
 He said, "Things were becoming different for me..."
I didn't need glasses anymore...
My hair had very little gray and grew like weeds... 
While everybody else was aging... I was getting younger... all alone...
Benjamin...
Hello, Benjamin... Do you remember me?
Of course, Mr. Button... What happened to you?
My foot was infected... I'm afraid they had to remove it...  Welcome home, my friend.
You're still drinking Sazerac with whiskey instead of brandy.
I'm a man of habit.
 Are you still visiting the house on Bourbon street?
 Not for a long time.
I told him about my life... about my time at war... and he told me how he had devoted his business to making buttons for the war effort...
The war has been kind to the button industry... we had gone from making forty thousand buttons a day to making two hundred and fifty thousand... We employed ten times the number of workers... We were operating around the clock...
I don't know how much longer I have to live...
I'm sorry to hear that, Mr. Button.
I don't have any people. I keep to myself. I -- I'm frightened. I hope you won't mind... but whenever it's possible... I would enjoy your company...
I'll do what I can, Mr. Button.
 Tell me Benjamin, do you know anything about buttons?
Just what holds my shirt on.
 ... comes from the French, "bouton," meaning a bud, or any round object...
They were originally decorative, jewelry sewn on clothing...
The practice of buttoning originated in the 13th century... when baggy clothing was replaced with more form-fitting clothes...
Button's Buttons has been in our family for one hundred and twenty- four years. My grandfather was a tailor. He had a small shop in Richmond. After the Civil War he came to New Orleans. 
It's all very interesting.   But what do you want from me?
I said, our family has been in the business for a hundred and twenty- four years.
Our family?
You are my family. Benjamin, you are my son.
I am so sorry not to have told you before...
You were born the night the great war ended... Your mother died giving birth to you... I thought... I thought you were a monster... I left you on the back steps of a house... I promised your mother I'd make sure you were safe... I should never have abandoned you...
My mother?
...A great uncle, from Germany.  All of the men in the family at the Lake House... (notices the date on it) 1915, three years before you were born.
Your grandfather at the summer house on Lake Pontchartrain. When I was a boy I would love to wake up before anybody else and run down to the lake to watch the day begin. It was as if I was the only one alive.
I fell in love with her the first time I saw her.  Your mother's name was Caroline Murphy. She was 20. She worked in your grandfather's kitchen...She was from Dublin... Her father, your maternal grandfather, was a chimney sweep... He died in the flu epidemic of 1900... Caroline came with her mother, two sisters, and four brothers in 1903 to live in New Orleans.
I would find reasons to go to the kitchen... just to look at her...
The happiest day of my life was April 25th, 1918 the day I married your mother.
Why didn't you tell me?
I made a mistake.
Come and take your rightful place... with your family... with me...
We can catch up for all the lost time...
I'm planning on leaving everything I have to you...
I better go.
Where are you going?
Home.
 He's what?! All those years he's creeping around here, and never tells us who he is?!! I thought he was just queer or somethin' comin' around here... always askin' for you... He left us $18 that night you was found... Eighteen ratty ass dollars and a dirty diaper...! Now he wants to be your father? He wants you to sit at his side...! He wants your forgiveness! I won't ever forgive him for any of it... God's the only one that can forgive him!  Now I got to get up early with Mrs. Hamilton... or she gonna drown...  ...He thinks he can just show up, and everything gonna be fine and dandy, everybody gonna be friends... He got another thing coming...
Did I ever tell you I was struck by lightning seven different times. Once, I was walking my dog along a country road.
I'm blind in the one eye...I can't hardly hear...I get twitches and shakes out of nowhere... I lose my line of thought... but you know what... God, for some reason, keeps on sending me a wake-up... It's His way of reminding me I'm lucky to be alive... (a beat, sniffs the air) Storm's comin'.
 Thomas...
Thank you, Benjamin.
You can be mad as a mad dog at the way things went...You can swear, curse the fates, regret everything you ever did... but when it comes to the end... You have to let go...
I buried him in the Button family plot.
I had a tailor sew onto his best coat -- a button for every year of his life....fifty-five of them... all different, pearl and silver, brass and wood... in case he lost one along the way...
 Don't you suffer alone for it.
 It's a beautiful cemetery... And buried here right next to your mother.
 His wife.
I went to pay a visit to the button factory.
My name is Benjamin, Benjamin...  Button...
As you know, my father...
...My father, Thomas Button... recently passed...
He asked that I take over the day to day operation of Button's Buttons.
Well, I don't know the first thing about buttons...and I don't know a thing about business...  
I have decided that all of you -- his loyal employees, will have a share, depending on your length of employment, in the ownership of this factory, his legacy.
That's about it.
Mrs. Sanderson will explain how everything works and will answer any of your questions...
And I went to New York.
I'm a friend of Daisy's...
Daisy has company...
Somebody's looking for me?...
Benjamin... What are you doing here?
I thought I'd come visit... spend some time with you if I could...
I wish you would have called... You caught me by surprise.
I couldn't take my eyes off of you... you were mesmerizing...
That's so nice of you to say... These are lovely... Thank you...
I better get changed... a group of us are going to a party... would you like to come...?
Somebody told me about a restaurant I thought you might enjoy... I made a reservation... Just in case --
 ...all the dancers go out together after the show... You're welcome to come with us... There'll be all sorts of interesting people... Let me get changed.
And I met her friends...
I'll get you a drink...
This is my friend David... David dances with our company too... This is the man I've told you about, Benjamin...
I'll get you that drink. - -
You were her grandmother's friend or something like that...?
Something like that.
 I knew I'd hurt you... Maybe I intended to...
I did what you told me to... enjoy my life... I'm only going to be young once... I had no idea you were coming. What did you think I was going to do...? You can't expect me to just drop everything, Benjamin... this is my life...
 There's a party downtown we're going to...
 Why don't you come with us, Benjamin... There'll be a lot of musicians, interesting people there.... You'll have a good time...
I came here to tell you I made a mistake before...A day doesn't go by that I don't regret it...It's not the way I felt...I should have never let you go...I came because I hoped I could be with you...
Daisy, you going to come...?
Do you love him?
Did you Mother?
I think so. I think I do.
 Okay. Okay... I'll see you in New Orleans...
 He came to tell me his father had died.
You couldn't have known.
I was 23...I just didn't care...
...There are some photographs I think... the zipper part of the large bag...
I've never seen these... You never talked about your dancing very much...
I was as good as I was ever going to be. For five years... I danced everywhere... London, Prague, Vienna, and I was the only American invited to dance with the Bolshoi... It was glorious...
But Benjamin was never far from my thoughts...
I'd find myself saying...
Goodnight, Benjamin...
I'd find myself saying...  Goodnight, Daisy.
What did he say?
"Life wasn't very complicated..."
If you want you could say I was looking for something...
Life went on as usual.
Mrs. La Tourneau just passed away.
Until one day...
That would be me....
It will just be a minute... please have a seat...
Sometimes we are on a collision course and we just don't know it... Whether it's by accident or by design, there's not a thing we can do about it...  
But she had forgotten her coat... and went back to get it... And when she had gotten her coat the phone had rung... and so she had stopped to answer it... and talked for a couple of minutes...
And while the woman was on the phone; Daisy was rehearsing for that evening's performance at the Paris Opera House...
And while she was rehearsing... the woman, off the phone now... had gone outside... to get a taxi...
Now a taxi driver... had dropped off a fare earlier... and had stopped to get a cup of coffee...
And all the while Daisy was rehearsing...
And the cab driver who had dropped off the earlier fare, and had stopped to get the cup of coffee...  
The taxi had to stop for a man crossing the street who had left for work five minutes later than he normally did... because he forgot to set his alarm...
...While the man, late for work, was crossing the street... making the cab wait... Daisy, finished rehearsing, was taking a shower.
...While Daisy was showering; the taxi was waiting outside a Boutique for the woman to pick up a package... which hadn't been wrapped yet because the girl who was supposed to wrap it... had broken up with her boyfriend the night before and forgot to...
When the package was done being wrapped... The woman, who was back in the cab... the taxi was blocked by a delivery truck...
All the while Daisy was getting dressed...
The Delivery truck pulled off and the taxi was able to go...
While Daisy, the first to be dressed, waited for one of her friends who had broken a shoelace...
While the taxi was stopped, waiting for a traffic light...
Daisy and her friend came out of the theater...
And if only one thing had happened differently... if only the shoelace hadn't broken...
...Or the delivery truck had moved moments earlier...
...Or the package had been wrapped and ready... because the girl hadn't broken up with her boyfriend...
...Or the man had set his alarm and got up five minutes earlier.
...Or the taxi driver hadn't stopped for a cup of coffee...
...Or the woman had remembered her coat...
...And had gotten into an earlier cab...
Daisy and her friend would have crossed the street...
...and the taxi would have driven by them...
But life being what it is... a series of intersecting lives and incidents... Out of anyone's control... the taxi did not go by... and the driver momentarily was distracted...
And he didn't see Daisy crossing the street...
...and that taxi hit Daisy...
And her leg was crushed...
Hello, Daisy...
Who told you?
Your friend wired me.
That was very kind of you... to come all the way here, to see that I was alright.
You would have done the same for me...
My God, look at you. You're perfect....
I wish you hadn't. I wish you hadn't come here.
I don't want you to see me like this...
Her leg had been broken in five places.... and with therapy, and time, she might be able to stand...maybe even walk...
I'll get a room... and once you can leave you'll come home with me to New Orleans. Where you can be with people who love you.
What home? Who's we? I'm not going back to New Orleans. New Orleans is your home... I don't have a home... I haven't been home for five years... I'm not going anywhere with you...
Alright, I'll stay here in Paris... I'll help you with anything you need...
Benjamin...! I know I'm feeling sorry for myself... But it wasn't supposed to be like this... 
You'll change your mind.
We're not little children playing under the table... Remember, when you came to New York. You didn't belong there. I didn't want to be with you then, I don't want to be with you now! I want you to leave! I'm not going anywhere with you! I want you to stay out of my life!
I was awfully cruel. He didn't understand. I couldn't have him see me that way...
 "I didn't leave right away..."
 No?
"I stayed in Paris for awhile, just to look out for her..."
I never knew that.
I'll get the nurse...
Let's get you comfortable.
Pulse rate's slowing...She's getting less oxygen...You'll notice her struggle to breathe...Will you be alright?
Every morning Monsieur Foley leaves eggs and bread and mil,. There's a cafe across the street. People sitting and drinking and talking... I lay on my bed thinking about the rest of my life... about people... about home... until I fall asleep.
 He said, "I went back..." But then there are a whole lot of pages torn out...
"...I listened to the sound of the house..." I think I already read that...  The next thing he wrote... he spilled something on it... It's hard to read... Something about "sailing." Does that make sense?
 A man would go up and clean it. Try and fix what was broken.
I learned to sail on an old boat of my father's from the Lake House...
I can't lie, I did enjoy the company of a woman or two...
...Or maybe three...
And in the spring of 1962...
She came back.
Don't you want to know where I've been?
No. I don't care where you've been -- I'm just happy you're back.
 How come you didn't write or nothin'? Just disappearing like that?
It was what I needed to do for myself.
I never took you to be selfish. I hope I'm not wrong. I'm not usually wrong about people.
She's still taking care of you. 
You're not talking. You haven't said more than two words to me.
I don't want to ruin it...
Goodnight.
Sleep with me.
Are you sure?
Yes.
Are you sure you don't want to know?...
I lived in Lyon...
...I learned to walk again
...I worked in a flower shop...
...I went to American movies a lot.
You won't hurt me...
I asked her to come with me...
We sailed into the Gulf... along the Florida coast...
I'm so glad we didn't find one another when I was 26... I'm glad we missed...
Why do you say that?
It wasn't right...
We wouldn't have this... We wouldn't be here... It happened when it was supposed to happen...
Relationships have a time and a place.
Don't say that.
What I mean is... You don't usually get more than one chance. If you miss it, it's too late... and it's gone... We're lucky... we had more than one chance.
 That's easy for you to say... You'll have plenty of chances.
I'm going to enjoy every moment I have with you...
Have you ever had a Sazerac with whiskey not brandy?
 I'm with you, aren't I?   I'll try anything.
Bet I can stay out here longer than you can.
Bet you can't.
You barely have a line, a crease, or a wrinkle... Everyday I have more wrinkles you have less...
I love your wrinkles.
What does it feel like growing younger?
I don't know... I'm always looking out of my own eyes...
Will you still love me when I can't stand straight... when my skin grows old and spotted...
Will you still love me when my step gets slow... when I sleep too much... when you have to push me in a chair...
Will you still love me when I have pimples. When I think it's funny to make fart noises...
Will you still love me when I think all girls have cooties... Will you still love me when I wet my bed at night... Will you still love me when I'm afraid of things that aren't real...
Nothing lasts...
Maybe some things last...
I've never seen anything not come to an end...
Maybe it's something you can't see...
I'm cold, Benjamin...
And you said...
Goodnight, Benjamin.
And I said...
Goodnight, Daisy...
 Caroline?
 I don't understand. When did you meet Dad?
Dear Robert... some time after that...
Did you ever tell him about this Benjamin?
He knew enough. He loved me as I was. I loved him for who he was. What more was needed?
"That night, in the Caribbean I had a visitor..."
I wanted to tell you I love you and your mama's gone...
Is anything wrong?
Queenie came to tell me she loved me... and that my mother was gone.
...go back to sleep...
 Hello... Queenie... we're back...
Queenie...?   Mama?
Hello... Anybody here?
It's Benjamin, Mrs. Carter... Where is everybody?
We buried her beside her beloved Mr. Weathers...
We are meant to lose the people we love. It's how we know how important they are to us.
And so we could have memories of our own I sold my Father's house on Blaine Street...
...It's such a lovely place... You must have a lot of fond memories. It must be hard for you to give it up.
Is Mrs. Williamson here yet... I'm sorry to be late...
It's a wonderful old place, darling... I think we will be so happy here...
Oh, what a long family history you have...
They come with the house...
And we bought a house of our own...
 I loved that house... it smelled like firewood... The chimney leaked smoke... We didn't care... Oh don't stop dear... don't stop...
"It was one of the happiest times of my life..."
We had no furniture to speak of... we would have picnics in the living room...
We slept on a mattress...
We vowed never to go to bed or wake up at the same time. We lived on that mattress...
Our neighbor, Mrs. Van Dam was a physical therapist...
We lived four blocks from a public pool...
You're crying...
It's just the chlorine...
You chose something to do... something so special... so unique... there was such a short period of time that you could do it... Even if nothing had happened ... Sooner or later you would be in the same place you are now...
I don't like getting old.
I promise you, I'll never lose myself to self-pity again...
And I think, right there and then, she realized none of us is perfect forever.
I thought the wind had shifted away...
Mother?
 I don't remember if I turned the lights off. Did I leave the heater on?
Let's get you comfortable...
She's getting ready to leave...
You have the most beautiful eyes.
He said, "She found peace."
 Peace.
She opened a dance studio...
You're still beautiful to watch...
Dancing is all about the line... the line of your body...after awhile... you lose the line... and you can never get it back...
I figured out if you were born in 1918... 49 years ago... I'm 43... we're almost the same age... In three years we'll meet in the middle...
 We finally caught up to each other...
Stay just like that... I want to remember what we look like right now.
I thought I was far too old... I'm pregnant...
 You were pregnant? You never said anything, did you? I mean, what happened to the child?
 The child...
 They said if you needed oxygen...
I want to breathe on my own... Please... sit down, my darling...
 I'm pregnant.
"She flourished..."
 Hmmm...
"She was happier than I had ever seen her..."
I thought I heard the nurse slip, and say "he..."
I know you're afraid.
I'm not hiding it.
Okay.   What's your worst fear?
What if it has...what if its like me?...
Then we'll love it all the more...
I want to be father... not a little brother... I don't want to be picked up from elementary school by my kid... I don't want anyone babysitting me...
I'm going to make this work... This is what I want, and I want it with you...
You know, there's nothing I wouldn't do for you...
Would you tell a blind man he can't have children? You will be a father for as long as you can. I know the consequences. I accepted that. Your love, loving you, is worth everything to me.  For the fiftieth time today I've got to go pee...
 The oldest woman to ever swim the English Channel arrived in Calais today... having made the swim in thirty-four hours, twenty-two minutes and fourteen seconds... the sixty-eight year old Englishwoman, Elizabeth Abbott...
 Anything's possible.
Ready?
Yes.
On a day like any other in the spring...
Benjamin...
Get me an ambulance... My wife is seven months pregnant and fell on the stairs...
Benjamin... the baby's coming...
She gave birth to a five pound four ounce baby girl...
You're sure there's nothing wrong with her?
We named her Caroline, for my mother...
He was my father...? This Benjamin was my father?  
It doesn't change for a moment who you are. You were a gift. Sometimes the gifts we are given are not free.
You never said a word to me...
I need to go for a minute...
 My dearest darling, we were both deprived of him...
It can get to you...
I was worried you weren't coming back...
 You're all I have.
Read the rest of it, darling. 
"You grew, like the doctor had said, normal and healthy..."
Don't eat sand...
She's going to have a really attractive diaper.
I think you should find a real father for her...
What are you talking about?
She needs someone to grow old with...
She'll learn to accept whatever happens... She loves you...
She needs a father not a playmate.
Is it that my age is starting to show...? Is that what you are telling me? Have you lost your desire for me...?
You don't need another child to raise...
You're going to leave me, aren't you?
You can't leave me.
You can't do this to me...!
It was your first birthday. We had a party... the house was filled with people...
The fathers and mothers were there...
Before you look around they'll be in High School dating.
I remember your first birthday like it was yesterday.
I sold the summer house on Lake Pontchartrain... I sold my share of Button's Buttons... I sold the sailboat... I put it all into an account for your mother... And before you would ever remember me...
I want you to know I love you...
I left, so that you and your mother could have a life.
 I left with just the clothes on my back.
I almost wish I didn't know any of this. (she's quiet, after a beat) I feel odd, reading...it...
Where did he go?
I don't know.    I never heard from him.
There are postcards...
They're all addressed to me... They're from all sorts of places...
They're for my birthday.  1970...I would have been two... "Happy Birthday." "I wish I could have kissed you goodnight." (reading, another one) "Happy Birthday, you're five." "I wish I could have taken you to your first day of school."  "Happy Birthday six-year-old." "I wish I could be there to teach you how to play the piano..."  "11..." "...Told you not to chase some boy..." "13..." "Held you when you had a broken heart..." "1983." I was fifteen. "I wish I could have been your father. Nothing I ever did will replace that..."
 What I think is..."
"...What I think is, it's never too late...or, in my case, too early, to be whoever you want to be...There's no time limit, start anytime you want...change or stay the same...there aren't any rules...We can make the best or worst of it...I hope you make the best...I hope you see things that startle you. Feel things you never felt before. I hope you meet people who have a different point of view. I hope you challenge yourself. I hope you stumble, and pick yourself up. I hope you live the life you wanted to...and if you haven't, I hope you start all over again."
"... I hope you start all over again..."
 I'd been gone for a long time...
 He'd been gone for a long time...
Somebody left their slipper...
Are you here to pick someone up?
I'm sorry, we're closed now.
Benjamin?
You're so young.
Why did you come back?
I wanted to see you both.
You ready, Mom?
Is something wrong, Mother?
No... He was telling me a very sad story about a mutual friend we hadn't seen in a long time... This is my friend, Benjamin... you knew him when you were... just a baby...
Hi...
Hello...
Hello...
I'm sorry... I thought you were done...
This is a friend of my family's... Benjamin Button... this is my husband... Robert...
It was nice to have met you... We'll be in the car, darling...
I'm just closing up...
She's so lovely... she looks like you... Does she dance?
Not very well.
I suppose that would be from my side of things.
She's a dear sweet girl... she seems a little lost... But who isn't a little lost at 12? There's a lot of her that reminds me of you.
My husband. He's a doctor... was a widower... He's an incredibly bright, adventurous man...
He's been a terrific father... and a great partner and friend...
You're so much younger.
Just what you can see.
You ware right. She needed a father. I couldn't have raised both of you. I'm not that strong.
I never thought how it must have broken your heart, too.
Where are you staying? What are you going to do?
I'm at the Pontchartrain Hotel on the avenue. I have no idea what I'm going to do.
I have to go.
That young man was my father?
The hurricane changed directions again. They are predicting it will make landfall sometime soon.
Is there anything we need to do?
Arrangements are being made to move people if we have to. I'll let you know as soon as we know anything.
Please tell me what he says?
"That night..."
Hello?
May I come in?
Please...
I don't know what I'm doing here...What I expected...?
Nothing lasts.
I never once stopped loving you...
I'm an old woman now, Benjamin.
Benjamin...
Are you sure?
Some things you don't ever forget... the feel... the taste...
... the smell...
... the touch...
Of someone you love...
I watched her go...
Until she went out of sight...
Please read...
That's the last thing he wrote...
What happened to him after that last time with you, Mother?
A year or so after your father passed... There was a call...
Hello?... Yes?... Speaking -- I don't understand? Where was that?
It's the last house...
I'm Daisy...
Thank you for coming... I'm David Hernandez with the Orleans Parish department of Child Welfare Services.
He was found living in a condemned building off of east Lamont... the police found this with him... this address... and your name...
He was in very poor health... he was taken to the hospital... He doesn't seem to know who or where he is... He's very confused... The doctors who looked at him think he may be autistic.
I told Mr. Hernandez about Benjamin bein' one of us. I told him if he needs a place to stay... it's alright... he can stay here... he is blood after all...
Benjamin.
You play really beautifully.
He doesn't seem to like to be touched.
The doctors said if they didn't know any better, he goes in and out of states of recognition, as if he had the beginnings of dementia...
Do you remember me?   I'm Daisy.
It's good to meet you Benjamin. Do you mind if I sit with you? I would love to hear you play.
Queenie's daughter saw to it that he was taken care of...
You just ate breakfast.
And every day I would stop by... and make sure he was comfortable...
He doesn't believe he's already had his breakfast.
Let's see if we can find something else for you to do.
I know you can't.
Many times he would simply forget who and where he was at all...
What do you mean?
It's alright... It's alright to forget things...
It wasn't easy...
 I wish you'd come down...
You're right, you can see everything sweetheart...
I think you better come down...
 I knew a man who could fly. Come down and I'll tell you all about him.
And I went to take care of him...
He was five, I think, when I moved in... the same age I was when I had met him...
How would you like to help me unpack?
This is the picture of old Man Kangaroo at five in the afternoon, when he got his beautiful hind legs just as Big God Ngong had promised.
The days passed...
I watched as he forgot how to talk...
That's right... Benjamin and Daisy...
...How to walk...
I watched him sleep...
In 2002, they put a new clock on the train station wall...
In the spring of 2003...
He looked at me...
He looked into my eyes...
And he moved his fingers... and with his little thumb he held my thumb...
And as he had said... no matter what age he was... he was the same person behind his eyes... and, at that moment I knew... he knew who I was...
And then he closed his eyes like he was sleeping...
I'm going to see what they want us to do...
It's a train schedule.
"I'm on a train in India filled with people."
I'm the only one who isn't sleeping...
"I figured out one thing. If you're growing older or getting younger it really doesn't make any difference. Whichever way you're going you have to make the most of what this is."
"Along the way you bump into people who make a dent on your life... Some people... get struck by lightning..."
"Some are born to sit by a river."
"Some have an ear for music..."
"Some are artists..."
"Some swim the English Channel..."
"Some know buttons..."
"Some know Shakespeare..."
"Some are mothers...
"And some people can dance..."
He started to write something else... "I'm going..." But he stopped...
I wish I had known him.
Now you do.
I'd better go and see what they're planning to do...
Goodnight, Benjamin...
