Well... .sometimes I got a spoonful of tea in a cup of hot milk.
There you are. Take some cake, why don't you?
No, thank you.
One little piece of cake won't hurt you. Go ahead, take one. It's full of fruit...citron, cherries and ginger. It'll make you dream. Yes, wonderful dreams.
Child, have you ever seen a play?
I like stories.
Then I'll tell you a story  a lovely story. Do you know the story of Rapunzel?
Mommy read it to ne.
Do you know the story of "The Headless Horseman?"
You live right here in Tarrytown and don't know the legend of Sleepy Hollow?
Well, then you must hear it. I shall tell it to you.
You sit here and we'll pretend that's a stage.
 The Headless Horseman --
Why hasn't he got a head?
It was shot off long ago in the great battles that were fought here; with the British on one side and the Americans on the other.
At night the Headless Horseman rides...
I hear a knocking at the South entry, Knock, knock, knock --- never at quiet Wake Duncan with thy knocking --- I would thy couldst.
Is my little miss here -- ? A little girl with hair about the color of yours, ma'am?
About time for you to come home, Amy.
But Mrs. Farren just started to tell me a story. Please.
 Let the child stay.
 Now, I don't know Amy --
 He'll let me stay, Mrs. Farren. He'll let me stay.
Good.
 Now Amy, I didn't say --
On the dark nights  on the stormy nights -- you can hear him. He passes like the wind; The flapping and fluttering of his great cloak beating like gaunt wings. The thunder of his horse's hooves is loud, loud and louder, beating hard, beating strong on the frozen ground as he comes riding, riding, riding.
 Little miss, you can't stay here. You've got to come with me.
...At the hour of midnight, down the road that goes through Sleepy Hollow, across the bridge, he goes galloping, galloping, always searching, always seeking
Come away, Amy.
-- If you stand on that bridge at the wrong hour -- the hour when he rides by, his great cloak sweeps around you, he swings you to his saddle bow, and you have to ride forever your eyes seeing for his blind eyes, your ears listening for his ears long deafened and dead, and always his cold arms around you, crushing you into the cavity of his bony chest. Then forever you must ride and ride and ride with the Headless Horseman.
My tea has gone cold -- bitter cold.
Come along now.
I've had a nice time, but I have to go home now. Good-bye.
Good-bye.
Thank you.
Little miss, don't you never come here alone. You gave me a fright, you did.
But she's such a nice lady.
But I don't want you coming here alone. You get me to go with you when you want to come here. You promise?
You be sure of your promise.
A liar -- an impostor -- your own daughter. You call me that and yet you are sweet and kind to the little girl -- a stranger --
Look at me. I'm your daughter.
My daughter, Barbara, died when she was six. That was long ago. You're only the woman who keeps care of me. I know you.
Look at me.
You're an impostor.
He comes riding, riding, riding. On the dark nights-- on the nights of storm...
Listen!
What is it, Alice?
 I thought Amy was calling. I guess not.
My friend... I'm frightened... my friend.
 I'm glad you came...my friend sing me that song again.
Ollie.
 What?
It's your play.
I'm sorry. I was somewhere else. He returns to the card game.
Edward will give you your breakfast, Amy.
 I had my breakfast while you were still asleep.
I haven't had my breakfast.
Well, you know where it is.
You see the way I get treated. You're the only one who has any pull around here.
Where'd you get this, darling?
It was right there on top. Isn't she pretty?
 She was very pretty.
What's her name?
Irena.
 Irena.
 Look! Why don't you run out and play? The sun's shining.
 All right, mommy.
Ollie!
I think maybe we should get rid of this, don't you?
Where did you get it?
Amy picked it off the top of that stack. Perhaps you'd better go through the whole bunch. There may be others of Irena in there.
Some day I'm afraid we're going to have to tell her about Irena.
I suppose so.
Who are you?
You called me by my name.
Irena. But who are you?
I'm your friend.
I've wanted a friend.
I've wanted a friend too. I've been lonely.
But where do you come from?
You wouldn't understand. I come from great darkness and deep peace
But where is that?
I can not tell you.
Will you be friend for always?
For as long as you'll let me.
I shall want you for always.
 For always, then. Only you must promise never to tell anyone about me
Not even Daddy...or Mommy?
No. This must be a friendship that only we shall have... you and I... Amy and her friend.
Oh, I like the sound of that.., Amy and her friend... Amy and her friend.
You'll always play with me?
Whenever you want.
Can't you get it, darling?
I'll just never learn arithmetic.
But you must!
The numbers simply don't mean anything
Oh yes they do.  Look.  One is like a tall princess.
A princess?
Of course. And Two is the prince who kneels before her on one knee.
Yes, yes! I see Prince,
That's right!
 This is more fun than just pretend.
Of course,
What's funny?
 That darn kid. I never in my life expected her to get an A in arithmetic. Math's is a practical science --- if she understands figures, she's well out of her own world of make-believe.
There's an oak leaf.  Add a maple.
That one's an elm.
in her eyes) Throw sea weeds into the flames, and the fire turns blue!
 But we don't have any sea weed.
Pretend, darling.  It's All Soul's Eve. (taking the child's hand, chanting) Round about the fire we go... (dropping the child's hand,she dances around the fire) Over the flames we leapt
Come on, Amy.  Jump over the fire.
No, I don't think that's very much fun. Let's play house instead.  You be the friend who comes to see me.  I'll show you my children.
Your children?
My dolls. We can pretend.
All right, Amy. (reeling beside the child,buttoning Amy's sweater) Button your sweater, darling. It's turning cold.
Yes, winter's coming.  I don't like the winter,
Oh, but the winter's fun. There's the wind and the snow. You'll like the warm fire upon the hearth, and the long, long nights.
All my children are taking their naps. We must be very quiet. This is Lottie...she's very good... this is Mary Ann...she's good sometimes...this is Virginia... she's hardly ever good.
These are all from me.
 This one says, "To Mother from Amy."
Oh, thank you, darling.
You can't open it yet. You have to put all of them under the tree until morning.
I guess if you can wait, so can we.
"To Daddy from Amy." Here's one for Miss Callahan. This one says, "To Edward from Amy.".
Good heavens! What could you be giving me. Little Miss?
Just you wait!
And this one's for Mrs. Farren.
She gave me a ring, so I'm giving her a ring. I paid twenty-five cents for it, too.
 This one hasn't got a name on it. Who's this one for, Amy?
Who's it for, Amy? Do we have to guess? Come on, tell us who it's for.
 "It came upon the midnight clear, That glorious song of old, Froci angels bending near the earth, To touch their harps of gold."
Ask them in, Ollie.  Edward, fix something warm for them to drink.
 "Peace on the earth, good will to men From heav'ns all gracious King, The world in solemn stillness lay to hear the angels sing."
Merry Christmas! Come on in.
There's a big fire in the living room. Edward's fixing something hot for you all to drink.
How bounteous!  But then I have always remarked that you were a very bounteous young man, Mr. Reed.
The sentiment is mutual, Miss Plummet.
Right in here.
Merry Christmas,  The carols were beautiful.
Merry Christmas... Thank you, Mrs. Reed...what a marvelous fire... And what a beautiful tree...
My dear Mrs. Reed, of all the houses we have visited tonight, yours.. I do swear.. has the truest dyed-in-tradition Christmas spirit.
Why, thank you.
 The old girl ought to make a record of that.  She says it at every house we go to.
What'd you get for Christmas?
I don't know yet.
 My goodness, don't you open your presents until Christmas morning?
No.
We open ours on Christmas Eve. That's considered proper.
Well, I guess we're not a very proper family.
Hm.
Couldn't we have another carol? I'll play it for you,, or at least try to, on the piano.
Of course you may have another carol. What shall it be, good friends?
Oh, I know one.  "Shepherds Shake   off your drowsy sleep."
 Now remember, all.  We start con vivace,
 "D'ou vient cetts troupe d'anges, Et tous les cieux plelns d'eclairs! Eh! fi'ou viennent ces louanges, Qui resennent de dans 1'air!"
Ready, friends?  Remember now, con vivace, and at the very end, poco ritardo, if you please.
 "Shepherds, shake off your drowsy sleep, Rise and leave you silly sheep; Angels from heav'n around loud singing, Tidings of great joy are bringing."
"Shepherds! the chorus come and swell! Sing Noel, 0 sing Noel!"
 "Je vous chanto une merveille, Qui remplit tout ce bas lieu D'une joio non pareille De la part do ce grand Dieu, D'une jolo non parcille, De la part de ce grand Dieu."
Merry Christmas, Amy.
Merry Christmas, Irena.  I brought you a present.
 Oh, thank you, Amy.
You can open it now, I guess. Lois Huggins says that's proper,
Oh, how beautiful!
It reminded me of you, so I bought it. It cost me more than all the others.
 I shall wear it in my hair!
 Oh, that is more beautiful than I ever imagined it!  I wish I could show you to mommy and daddy.  I wish you could enjoy Christmas with us.
You and I shall enjoy Christmas together. Shall I show you my Christmas gift to you?
Oh, please!
Amy!  Amy!  Where are you, Amy?
Amy!
Better go in now.  Run along, darling.
Merry Christmas.
A merry Christmas to you, Amy.
It has been a Merry Christmas and a happy one for us.
I got lots of presents.
And you should.  Your mommy tells me you've been such a good girl, and your daddy is so pleased with you.
Mommy, could Edward take me to Mrs. Farren's house to give her her present?
Wouldn't it be just the same, darling, if daddy dropped the present at Mrs. Farren's on his way to town tomorrow morning?
But it won't be Christmas tomorrow.
 All right, Amy.  Go tell Edward to take you.
Does she go up to the Farren's often?
No. I only let her go with Edward.  It's alright.
Hurry Edward, Hurry.
Just have patience, little miss.
So beautiful, Irena. So beautiful.
You wanted to share this moment with me.
It stands so still.
Because it knows it can move with the swiftness of strong wind.
I can sea its breath in the cold.
It's a warm breath -- warm and strong warmed by the sunlight that shone on the deer's back in the hot summer; sweet with leaves and mosses.
May I pet the deer?
It is wildness and freedom. No one can touch it.
I want to touch it.
There was a deer on the other side of the fence.
It's a hard winter. All the animals are bold as brass, coming down into the streets for food. You'll see a lot of deer this winter.
Come on now, we'd better hurry if we want to get to Mrs. Farren's before dark. They start out of the yard.
 I brought you a present. Merry Christmas.
 A Christmas present. It's been so long since I've had a Christmas present.
There's a present you haven't opened yet, ma'am.
 That's from her -- that woman.
Well, let's see what we have here. In my time I've had many presents, Christmas and otherwise. The King of Spain once gave me this ring.
A ring! A beautiful ring! Oh, how it shines.
What should I do with the King of Spain's ring when I have this to put in its place?  For this is a ring given to me out of friendship and love... and that's more than I can say for any of the others.  Thank you, my child.
What's that?
It's some animal hurt in the woods that made that sound.
 Wait a minute. Listen.
What?
Don't you hear it?
What is it, ma'am?
EMPTY_LINE
Who's Herne the Huntsman?
Don't you read Shakespeare?
 "There is an old tale goes, that Herne, the hunter, Sometimes a keeper here in Windsor forest, Doth all the winter time, at still midnight, Walk round about an oak, with great ragg'd horns; And there he blasts the trees," Ah, well, it's a bad generation -- forgetting all the beautiful words. I'll tell you plainly -- there's a wild huntsman who scours the forest with his dogs and his men. He winds his horn and the woods echo with it. Everywhere he passes the animals are slaughtered and lie dead beneath his trampling feet. If he should catch up with anyone walking in the wood, forever and forever they would have to hunt with Herne, the Huntsman and his wild rout. Hear his horn?
And does he kill people?
No, not people -- just deer and game, but the people he catches can never be free again. They too must kill and kill, covering themselves with blood.
It's dark. We'd better be getting on. The family will be waiting.
Such a brief visit, but dear child, it has made my Christmas very merry.
 starts to lead her from the room) Merry Christmas.
 You didn't even open my present and I'm your daughter.
My daughter died long ago.
Mustn't look, little miss. Mustn't look.
But I saw what it was. It's the little deer.
Bad luck to see death in the snow.
But what happened to the little deer?
Probably hit by a car. Hard to see things in the twilight.
Why is it just lying there? Why doesn't it get up?
Because it can't. It's dead.
But it was alive  it was fast and strong!
It got hit.
But where has it gone?  Where's all the strength and the quickness?
 I'll ask my friend. She'll know.
I love the smell of pine.
It's one of the clearest memories I have. Twelfth night...burning pine... and mummers' plays.
 It's been ages since I've even thought of a mummers' play. When I was in college we used to do them every year  St. George and the Dragon, all kinds of sword dances.
I've even got some pictures of myself all got up in tattered green and waving around a wooden sword. They're in here, I think.
Oh, oh. What did I lose?
I've got it, mommy.
Daddy!
Yes, Amy?
Why, daddy, you know my friend too!
You couldn't know this woman. She died before you were born. Why did you call her your friend?
Amy, answer me. Why did you call her your friend?
Because she is my friend.
Oliver, please. Let's not go on with this. The child's trembling.
We've got to go on.  Amy, here, all this time, you've let your mother and father think you had forgotten that old dream life of yours. Now we find you've only kept it secret.
 It isn't a secret. She plays with me. She plays with me in the garden all the time. Right out there in the garden, she does!
In the garden? Would she be there now?
She's there whenever I call her!
Amy, I want you to look all around ...very carefully...and then I want you to tell me if your friend is out there now in the garden.
Do you understand, Amy?
Irena!
 She's there, just like I said she'd be.
Where, Amy? Where do you see her?
 Don't you see her?...Right there, under the tree.
Amy, there's nothing there. There's no one at all in the garden.
But Irena is in the garden. She's right there, under the tree.
Listen, darling. I want you to look once more. Take as long as you want. Look very carefully, and then I want you to tell me that no one's there.
But...
 I have eyes too, and I tell you no one's there. If you deny that, if you insist that this woman you call your friend is in the garden, then I'm afraid I shall have to punish you. Do you understand?
All right. Amy. Tell me that you see nothing.
But she is here.
You know, there's another thing I just remembered, When you burn a pine branch torn from a Christmas tree, you're supposed to make a wish.
We were such a large family that I remember one Twelfth Night there was no pine branch left for me to wish upon, but my brother, who was nearest me, said., "Don't you worry. I'll wish for both of us."
Forgive me, but it was superstition ...foolish, childish wishes...that started, all this.
What do you mean?
I can see it all...the very day it began. Amy was lonely; she was desperate for friendship. I remember the night she told me she had wished on her ring. That must have been the day she first wished for a friend.
She refuses to deny it. She continues to believe in her lies.
But don't you see...it's just what I was about to say to Alice...Amy in her own mind may not be lying.
But there was nothing, no one in the garden.
She needed, a companion, so out of her own hunger she created one. In her mind her friend was in the garden. In her mind her friend never leaves her. Right this very minute I'm sure she's upstairs sobbing out her grief to a friend who exists only in her mind.
Everything you say is no doubt very true. But what worries me is that Amy keeps escaping from reality. I went through that once- with Irena. I saw her... Alice and I both saw Irena lose her mind. Do you think I can sit here calmly and watch my child.
It's perfectly normal for a child to dream. I can see how a sensitive little girl, finding this portrait, would take the image of this woman and make of her an imaginary friend. That image dwells only in her imagination, and that image can go as quickly as it was born.
How?
 Once the emptiness in Amy's life is filled, the dream will go of itself. If a up to you, both of you. Only you two can bring her into a real world.. You must give her the friendship and love she craves.
But we have. She's wanted for nothing.
Perhaps she's wanted for understanding.
Oliver, what is it?
Amy. She's gone. Better get your coat.
 Give me the state police. And hurry!
She's gone into the woods.
Up and down he rides...
Don't you like the wind, Regan? Or is your name Goneril?
"Blow, winds, and crack your cheeks! rape! blow!... Now rain, wind, thunder, fire, are my daughters..."  Oh, I could be queen to King Lear tonight!
I hate the storm. I hate it!
 The storms have done everything they can to me, I don't hate them. I don't even hear the wind. It blows beyond me. It was on such a night as this that Barbara died.
But I am Barbara. I didn't die.
My Barbara was killed. I killed her. Yes, it was my fault. Everyone told me not to drive from the theatre. There was a raging wind that night, and snow and ice. All was well until we got to the Sleepy Hollow bridge. Barbara was singing a little song and then ...I don't know how it happened ..when I awakened, they told me the car was overturned, and they wouldn't let me see Barbara. Barbara was dead.
But I didn't die. Don't you understand? It was you. Your mind was dead for nearly ten years after that accident. You didn't know anybody; you couldn't remember anything. And then, when memory returned, you called for me, and I came into your bedroom to see you. I was sixteen years old then, ten years older than when you last remembered me. You said I wasn't your daughter... I loved you... I wanted you for my mother...but you denied me. You said they were playing tricks on you, that your daughter was a little girl.
Look at me now. Look into my eyes. Tell me I'm Barbara... your daughter Barbara.
No, no. It isn't true. Everything you say is a lie. You're a poor, drunken woman. You're not my Barbara.
This is where she must have left the road. The hounds have picked up her scent on that frozen meadow.
Good.
We'll have to leave the cars here and cut across the meadow on foot.
All right.  Go ahead.  We'll follow.
Herne, the Huntsman of death... Herne, the Huntsman of death... Herne, the Huntsman of death...
Yes, that's it. That's the very song! The song from "Cymbeline." I was singing it, just like you said, the night of the accident. I can even remember the words...  "Fear no more the heat o' the sun. Nor the furious winter's rages... "
Oh, doesn't that prove something to you? Doesn't it?
Anybody could know that song.
Look at me. Look at me, mother darling. Look into my eyes. What color eyes did Barbara have?
Gray. They were a lovely, lovely gray.
And my eyes...my eyes are gray. Look! You see!
 Yes...yes, that's true.
And my hair...what color hair did Barbara have?
It was pale...a shadowed gold.
My hair's like that. Isn't it? Isn't it?
Yes, so it is...so it is...  Barbara.
Mother! You called me by name!
Yes, Barbara... Barbara...
Oh, mother! Mother, darling, you've called me. You know me. I don't mind anything now...all the long years of waiting...all the starved, hungry years. We've found each other. I love you, I love you!
Promise me you won't forget tomorrow. You'll remember, won't you? You won't say that it was just a dream. Promise me.
Yes. Yes, Barbara, I shan't forget.
It's a dream come true.
There's another promise you must make me. That little girl who comes here...she mustn't ever come to see you again. Promise me you won't see her.
I-shan't see her. No, Barbara, no.
 If that child comes here...if I find her trying to steal your love from me...I'll kill her. Yes, I'll kill her:
I'll not see her, Barbara. I promise.
Good night, mother, good night.
Good night...Barbara...
Barbara...Barbara...Barbara..
Mrs. Farren! Mrs. Farren!
Little girl....poor little girl...
I'll have to hide you, little girl.
Hide me? Why?
My little girl said she'd kill you if you came to see me. I can't let you die. We'll have to hide you.
No, I can't hide you here. She knows every corner of this room. There's no safe place here. Where? Oh, where can I hide you?
Yes, we'll have to go upstairs. There's a little room way up...a little forgotten room wider the eaves...I can hide you there.
You'll have to help me. I rarely go up the stairs any more. The doctor forbade it. We'll have to be very quiet...ever so quiet...my little girl is in her room, waiting to kill you. We mustn't let her find you.
We must hurry. We must hide together, you and I.
Hurry, hurry.
Yes, yes -
Hurry!
I can't do it! I can't do it!
It's such a pity...such a pity...Barbara...
 Mrs. Farren,...Mrs. Farren...
Let me out! Let me out!
Amy. Amy.
It's you...Irena...my friend!
 Don't cry, Amy.
 She's dead! I know what it is now when people say somebody died. I know what they mean! And I'm afraid. She's dead; she's dead!
You mustn't be afraid.
 But she's dead!
Amy, listen to me. Death isn't such a terrible thing.
Oh, it is, it is! Death's terrible.
But, Amy!  Amy...I'm dead.
 You?
Yes, Amy.
But why?
 Death's like life. Death's a part of life. It isn't frightening. It isn't the end of everything. It isn't quiet and nothingness. It's a part of all eternity.
You're not frightened now, are you?
In there. She must be in there.
Oh, Amy! Darling, I thought we'd lost you. I thought I'd never find you again!
Darling. Are you all right, darling?
Mr. Reed.
This woman's dead.
Yes, she was afraid. She said there was someone who wanted to kill me.
But there's no one here, darling.
She's upstairs.. .the lady who lives up there.
The door's locked,
The key's there in the lock, sir.
Who turned the key in that lock? I heard, the voice of my mother and the voice of that child, and when I tried to get out, the door was locked. Who turned that key and locked me in?
There's been no one up here,
_ Even your last moment was stolen from me.
You did it! You stole her love! Thief. Thief. You thief!
We're going home, Amy.
Who do you think locked that door?
 Whoever did saved the life of that child. That woman's deranged.
Daddy?
Yes, darling.
Tell me tha real truth. You can see my friend, can't you?
Yes, darling, I can see her.
