A shock chord as we cut from black to a harshly toplit
A man is talking into a cellular phone. He is a paunchy but powerful looking black man, bald with a gray fringe. His baldness makes his head look muscular; he is a tough man whose life has been shaped by the violence of the docks. His name is EDDIE BLACK. In the distance a foghorn moans. We are pulling back.
Yeah. .'Cause he's an asshole. Tell him no... Tell him no too... Him, tell fuck you... Yeah... Uh huh... The continuing pull back shows that we are inside a huge empty pier building. Black is leaning against the roof of his car, which is parked in the middle of the vast empty space. The room is lit by bare bulbs, its farthest reaches falling into darkness.
No, I'll be a few minutes here. Guy comin' up, thinks he's gonna muscle me outs my property... Does it matter? Just another tough guy...Yeah, okay... Another hard-looking man is approaching.
They're drivin' up. Black nods.
Get their pieces. We got a surprise for those fuckers.
The cars stop in the foreground and eight men get out, eerily backlit in the mist of the riverfront.
Okay, against the car, ladies. You're c gonna stand for a search. 12 The eight visitors assume the position, placing their 12 hands on the roof of their car. The dock workers pat them down and haul off iron -- lots of it.
stands waiting for them. He eyes Skip, the limper.
Bum leg?
No leg.
I hadda break it off.
okay, let's cut the crap here. Durant, I got just three things to say to you. One He holds up a chubby finger.
I ain't selling my property. He flashes a second finger.
Two. Nobody muscles Eddie Black Especially a bunch of fucks. He flashes a third finger.
Number three, if you guys is unha with that, which I can already is, then we can cutcha balls of f if that'll be more satisfactory.
The last shot echoes away to leave silence -- except for the arhythmic echoing scuffle of Skip's one shoe, as he continues to hop in place for balance. Smiley, after a watchful pause to make sure everyone is dead, sticks out his left arm at waist level. Skip grabs the arm for support, stops hopping, and there is now...total silence.
Now let's consider my points, one by one...
puts a full nelson on Black. Trumayne, grabs Black's right hand and holds it out, fingers splayed, towards Durant.
One... He slips one of Black's fingers into his cigar trimmer.
.1 try not to let my anger get the better of me. SNIP! Black screams. As Durant goes for another finger:
...Two: I don't always succeed. SNIP! Black screams. Reaching for another finger:
...Three: I've got seven more points.
Blinking.
The nostrils flare slightly.
Looking.
Still. Suddenly it is hit by a flash of light as -- B- DEEEE -- we hear the automatic wind of a camera and its strobe recharging. B-DEEEEE! B-DEEEE! We get rapid-fire left and right nose profiles.
We are in a lab. DR. PEYTON WESTLAKE, an earnest scientist in his early thirties, is straightening up from behind a futuristic looking, tripod-mounted camera. He front the camera and instantly hits a button nt of ut. thenfro eof o
Now, if everything goes according to plan, in a couple of months your nose will be on the lips of every American... He is feeding the prints into the input slot of a computer.
We've finally got the Imager working how we want it. 24 We pan to the Holographic Imaging Cylinder. The glass 24 cylinder, wired to the computer, glows to life. 24P A three dimensional holographic image of Yakatito's nose 24P rotates within. 25 Peyton glances from the Imager to the computer. He types 25 on the computer keyboard.
Bio-press checks out okay... He glances to...
I don't know about perfect, but it looks like your nose. Down to the millimole... No, the bio-press won't be a problem. It's the synthetic
skin's instability. If the
just hold up -- Y give me victim and a photograph of his old face -- he'll get more than a nose. We're talking complete reconstruction
damaged skin tissue. make him better looking. Hey, what's the time?
fumbles for the stopwatch that hangs around his neck.
Ninety-eight minute and change.
Let's check in our friends.
moves to a microscope.
On the right half of the screen, another image forms. It is a second molecule. Beneath it, the words:
The molecules rotate in synchronization. A loud beeping tone. Suddenly, the synthetic molecule begins to waver and spin randomly.
Oh no...
Fragmentation. Time? Yakitito checks his stopwatch.
Ninety-nine minute. Again.
He stares dumbly at the stopwatch, frozen. He repeats,
..Ninety-nine minute. Cells always break up at a ninety-nine minute. He punches away at a keyboard and takes the readout.
Electrolytes, temp and glucose concentration. all normal.
But still this ninety nine minute. Yakitito makes a notation of the time on a lab sheet.
Pacing, thinking;
Why? What is destabilizing it? Vivification process was cake. Tissue rejection? We licked that. We're close. We're smart guys. So why can't we make these cells stable? Hokay. Let's try a ten percent alkalinity. Get those suckers too drunk to fragment.
posts the completed lab sheet on a wall covered with hundreds of similar sheets.
We already try ten. He pokes at a section of lab sheets.
And twenty. And twenty-two... We try all phase of alkalinity. He punches the wall. CONTINUED
But still a ninety-nine minute! Three month ago, ninety nine minute. Ten month ago... ninety nine minute... BAM BAM... Yakitito punches the wall again and again. Peyton calmly taps a plastic dunking bird that slowly bobs.
A word of advice, Yakitito. Don't get emotionally involved. Watch. Analyze. Remain object ---
He is cut off as Yakitito punches the wall again and again to punctuate his speech.
Maybe I am lousy scientist.
listen to father, get in Anaheim! Get drunk on Sake nightly, forget I am failure!
Quick, Yakitito. A basketball appears in Peyton's hands. He tosses it to
Catches the ball.
The most striking characteristic of thermionic emission.
Throws the ball away.
No, always you ask me question to ma me calm down! I no want to calm down!
catches the ball, dribbles and throws it back to Yakitito.
The answer, Yakitito.
snags the ball angrily from the air.
Go on! Again he pump-fakes. Yakitito flinches.
This means the temperature of the emitter is not critical as long as it is sufficiently high and as long as pure metals with high operating temperatures such as tungsten or tantalum are used. Peyton tosses him the ball. Yakitito catches it. Calm now. He blinks.
Amazing. It work every time.
JULIE HASTINGS, a young attractive woman who has apparently been awaiting their arrival rises from a chair and crosses the lobby to greet them. She is dressed in a conservative business suit and carries a briefcase.
Mr. Strack, my name is Julie Hastings. I'm here from Pappas and Swain to represent you in the Von Hoffenstein negotiation.
How do you do? And please, call me Louis. This is my father who-- Strack Sr. interrupts his son's introduction.
I don't want some fancy-ass woman to do my negotiating. Where's Herb Gorson?
Gorson's tied up in litigation this week. Don't worry--I've done my homework.
scowls, ungraciously accepting her.
.If he goes that low, lock him up.
Liveried waiters are just clearing the table and serving coffee.
We want to be reasonable here. We said we were interested in selling the pier frontage and we are interested in selling. But frankly Mr. Von .will not be robbed. Seventy-five strikes us as a fair price for this parcel. We're ready to conclude a deal here and now at that price.
Then I guess we're only missing one element here.
What's that?
An interested party. Strack Jr. tries to suppress a smile. Waiters bring in the wine and pour a tasting portion for Von Hoffenstein, silent, coldly watchful. He rolls the wine in his glass, eyes appraising Julie. He takes a sip, cocks his head, nods. Wine is poured around.
.Mr. Katz, I've found that in the real estate business, three factors determine a property's worth. CONTINUED
Katz leans forward, listening.
...Location. Location. And... location. Frankly, you have none of the above. Your fair price is fair for midtown commercial, not for riverfront.
It's worth more to your client, given his plans for the area.
if my client can spin straw into gold, he'll still pay market price for straw. As a matter of fact--
--Business is business. Deals vill come and go, but ze velt vill pause for a beautiful voman...and a fine wine.
Our offer stands at forty-eight.
Smiles a worldly smile.
Let us toast a zale at ze price of zixty millions. Strack Sr. smiles. He starts to raise his glass, preparing to toast.
To Von Hoffenstein: CONTINUED
You're moving in the right direction, but our offer stands firm. i believe if anyone had
offered you more than us, you'd sharing this wine with them. She sips the wine and then, frowning, turns to the wine steward.
.There's been a mistake. We ordered a bottle of '67 Beaujolais Maison Reme. Is that not correct?
Oui madame. '67 Beaujolais Maison Reme. Is what I have serve. Julie pleasantly but firmly corrects him.
No. You have served us a 1981 or 1982. California Beaujolais.
Pleasant, but hardly worth charging... Strack Sr., frowning, examines the wine. It's news to him.
Please, Madame! I serve the Reme!
Mine tastes okay.
Ms. Hastings, please. The wine is fine. You're way out of your league here. I'm sure the wine steward--
plucks the CALIFORNIA
The wine steward whispers sharply in French to the waiter, then turns back to the table.
Please forgive us. We bring the bel Reme.at once. Gratis. Julie addresses the baron.
At any rate, our offer stands at forty-eight... As she rises:
.And if we can't toast, we prefer not to drink. These gentlemen and I have other business to attend to, so if you'll excuse us... Strack Sr. rises, angrily. He turns to leave with her, murmuring under his breath:
I told you to make this deal. Von Hoffenstein calls after them his wine glass held
Permit me, madame! Too fine a vine not to use for a toast!
How much did she pay you?
For that little trick with the labels. He takes the stewards fist in his and unfurls the steward's fingers. Revealing--A HUNDRED DOLLAR BILL. Strack Jr. turns to Julie's retreating figure and smiles.
The fluid disappears from the bottom beaker and instantly reconstitutes in the top beaker as a steaming brown fluid.
He looks down into his microscope.
.Time, Yakitito.
Ninety eight minute. A light goes out, leaving the lab in darkness except for the glow from the computer screen.
.Is a bulb. I get a fresh.
As he rummages in a drawer:
So, did you ask her?
Tonight. Out of habit, Peyton glances back to the microscope.
This is unbelievable! You been saying tonight for weeks and still you don't ask her! Maybe I ask to marry you.
Your father would never approve of me. Yakitito stares at him in puzzlement. Then:
216, no, I ask he if gbg marry you. I Peyton looks through the microscope;
Time, Yakitito!
Huh?! One hundred minute! Peyton grips at the table with excitement.
The cells are holding, Yakitito.
Dr. Westlake punch the wall! Dr. Westlake punch the wall!
You Punch You answer the quesiton. flinches, to c ch t winds back to toss u B e i ball pump -faked to cat ch t he ball. t ever comes-- Yakitito
Gold Kugerands are looking attractive. Another long pause.
Are those the ones with the chocolate centers? Another pause.
Krugerrands. Sounds like a frog trying to burp. Strack Industries will stick with real estate. You remember that.
What the hell!
We have a flat, sir. I'm sorry.
You should be. This'll come out of your wages.
is'NOT flat.
discretely removes a straight-razor from his coat pocket and approaches the tire.
Time I took a leak anyway. Damn prostate. There's only one thing I gotta do myself and I gotta do it twenty times a day. Strack Sr. exits the car.
is now deflated.
ments room. CAMERA MOVES
scowls, and heads ltoward Taaf him r eveal
who hobbles directly toward the man. CAMERA SWISHES in front of Strack Sr. to again reveal.
Closer now. A one-quarter-view of the man's downturned face. he looks up--revealing DURANT! A terrible malevolent grin as he lifts his newspaper. We make out the muzzle of a silencer. CAMERA SWISHES TO.
The two men pass.
Father?
races out of the car and rushes over to his father.
Father!
lies motionless on his stomach. Strack Jr. turns him over, revealing that Strack Sr.'s chest is flooded in BLOOD.
(Revised Scene Numbers
lifts his father. Emotion etched on every line of his face, he cradles the old corpse in his arms, lifting him off the black cable, and the ringing sound is finally silenced.
Julie ascending a flight of shadowy stairs. The steps creak as she climbs them. We hear the eerie drip, drip, dripping of a water pipe.
is uneasy. She halts halfway up the stairs to listen. We hear only the scurry of cautiously.
Peyton?
a photic-sensor picks up the disturbance.
extrude slowly from slots over the windows.
fills the room. It is a hollow Voice that echos about the lab.
Please be seated. A spotlight SNAPS on, illuminating a chair behind her. Numbly, she sits in it.
tak l in of her. Tvoice tak cati nal essono heomonotonousltone ofoatnarrator ofhedu films.
ve. ow does it work? A Westlake Yanigita presentation. A smile spreads across Julie's face.
A slide is projected on the screen. It shows a sunset over the ocean. Very corny, distorted music over this shot.
Love. Science is perplexed over this great mystery. Shot of Peyton and Yakitito in white lab coats, identical looks of perplexity on their, faces. Julie laughs.
What are the causes of love? How do we detect its presence? What are its effects? These are some of the questions we will investigate in this lesson. Again the sunset and distorted music.
Part one. je origins 21 ve. The sunset is replaced by split-screen photos of Peyton and Julie, age twelve. Peyton peers into a test-tube through glasses too big for his face. Julie assumes a mock-debonair pose for the camera.
These lovers first met on a seventh grade field trip to the planetarium... Shot of the night sky, rich with stars and galaxies.
While the narrator discussed the origins of the universe, Peyton held Julie's hand. Shot of a somewhat nerdy Peyton with his arm stiffly around Julie.
You were so slick.
Our test-subjects were soon--to use the jargon of teenagers--"going out. " This "going out" period can be as short as a single date, or as long as a lifetime. Montage of Peyton and Julie throughout the years.
In the case of these two--a rare phenomenon--it lasted twenty years.
Although we broke up sixteen times. Sunset and distorted music.
Part two. Mating rumpled bed, The sunset is replaced by a shot of Julie on a working on legal briefs, a camera-faced shadow crossing the image.
Certain objects develop a special, shared meaning to lovers. Here are some objects significant to our test subjects. Shot of coffee-rings on a table.
The coffee rings Peyton tends to leave. They irritate Julie, and he leaves them everywhere! Quick shots. Coffee rings on a lab report. Coffee rings on a book-shelf. Coffee rings on a wall and ceiling. Julie laughs.
Yet such minor irritations can strangely become endearing to the other mate.
Not just yet they haven't. The slide changes to a shot of a bottle covered in wax.
The bottle of Dom Perignon Champagne Julie gave Peyton for his twenty-first birthday. Now it serves as a candle holder.
I never gave you that. The champagne bottle is replaced by a shot of a record album turning on a player. The music plays over the image. Haunting. Romantic.
Finally, the single Love in the ark The song continues. Julie smiles, swept away by it.
This song was playing when the two first kissed. A high school prom picture comes up on the screen. Peyton in an awkwardly fitting tux and Julie, a blossoming beauty. In the slide, they have been caught kissing.
Now let us leave our test-subjects. The sunset again. ov in the Dark theme plays over it,. and eventually fades away.
Love. It's fundamental nature still eludes modern Science. Yet researchers across the globe continue to study this ancient and powerful phenomenon. Hoping one day, to unlock love's mystery. Credits come on. A Westlake/Yanagita Presentation. Etc. Peyton The lights in the lab come on. Julie turns around. steps out from behind the slide projector.
Pretty stupid, huh?
I thought it was beautiful-
Yakitito helped. I just wanted you to see it. It was just something I wanted you to. . know.
I know. Peyton wraps his arms about her. Julie moves close and they kiss.
HALTS on Peyton anEuRl et y heircloveamakingv The test-tubes CLA h thm to th DISSOLVE TO:
.Dale Gorson, please... Peyton's hand enters with a mug of coffee, which he sets on the papers in front of her.
Peyton! Julie takes the mug away; it has indeed left a brown circle on the topmost memo. Julie smiles at him. Then:
Dale? Yes, Julie Hastings... yes, I found some memos researching the Von Hoffenstein deal that I don't think I was supposed to find... From the late Mr. Strack to a guy named Claude Bellasarious. They're records of payments to various people on the zoning commission... Peyton, behind her, massages her back.
.They look like payoffs. Suspicious, at the very least... Well, the way I'd like to proceed is to talk to Strack's son first... Give him the benefit of the doubt. Under the circumstances, it's the least I can do. She hangs up. Peyton kisses her. She leans back into his arms and closes her eyes blissfully. Reluctantly, she rises and slips on her shoes. Peyton watches her admiring everything about her. She gracefully lays her legal papers in her briefcase and heads for the door. Half way out the door she turns to Peyton.
Bye. I'll call l you tonight. Maybe we can get together. She exits.
The sound of the closing door echos. He sits alone on the ksd, looking about the empty apartment and lab beyond.
In an impressive corporate power suit, briefcase in hand, walks briskl y down the sunny sidewalk, stopping at the intersection to sig nal a cab Suddenly, running up behind her..
Julie, wait! She is opening the cab door when she turns to him.
What's the matter?
I've been thinking. Maybe we should get married.
Marriage--well, we could do that--of course, there's our careers--I men, I'm just starting to get things going at the firm. And, you know, I kind of like having my own
'We're practically living together now. All marriage means is you answer the phone in the and if you to pretend grandmother, it's a wrong number. The poor woman's beginning to think she has alzheimer's.
Julie, I'm asking you to marry me.
He got a ring?
Peyton, you didn't go ou anp d you? lot of money on a ring, di
Ring? Oh, no, I don't have a ring.
I mean, I just now finally
I love you, Peyton... She climbs into the cab, closes the door.
-Realized how much--
(through the open
but I guess I'm not ready. 64 Julie leans close to kiss him, but the cab pulls into 64 traffic.
Watches Peyton grow smaller as the cab moves off. Julie looks longingly back at Peyton. Did she make the right choice? She back once more for Peyton but he is only a tiny dot in the distance.
Yes, go ahead, put a buy on the Kugerands... Thank you for your sympathy, Franz. He was a great man. And as long as Strack Industries flourishes my father lives on. The pull back shows Strack behind his power desk, talking nd Strack into the phone. waves the person on into his lush corporatecoffice
.Very good. Thank you. He hangs up.
.Miss Hastings. Have a seat.
Thank you for seeing me, Mr. Strack... I'm --sorry about your father. I heard last night.
My father was a great man, and his
loss is felt by you something? allfof?us.
No thank you. Mr. Strack, I've been going over some documents and I came across something that puzzled me. It's a memo from your office to a Mr. Claude Bellasarious--it went out over your father's signature. It detailed
Strack has gotten up to pace.
Yes yes, I know the memo. Julie continues, hesitantly:
...It seems like the payments... were-
They were pay-offs. To the zoning commission. Bribes, to call a spade a spade. He gives her an appraising look.
.Does that shock you?
But it disappoints you.
Well it's hardly my place to--
That's right, it's not your place. Yet I value your good opinion.
Surely you don't expect me to endorse it.
Course not. I'm sure my father never intended for you to know about it. I'm sorry if He's compromised you in any way. But I am asking you to understand. I'm not going to bore you with that old speech about how we all have to swim in the same pond. But you know as well as I that
not so much as one mini-mall ever went up in this city without some grease being laid into the palms downtown. You're not naive; you know it's a cost of doing business. Ordinarily you don't have to face it. Well, I face it, and a lot worse, into acynic--that's the easy way out, and I'm tougher than that. Strack gestures towards a table-top architectural model of the Riverfront Development.
Take a look at that model, Julie. That was my father's dream. Now it's my dream. Acres of riverfront reclaimed from decay, thousands of jobs created, a building block--a very large building block--laid for the future. Not such a bad dream, as dreams go. And if the price of realizing that dream is the occasional distasteful chore, well...
All right, you're point is well taken. But the fact remains that I'm in possession of evidence of the commission of a crime. You can no more ask me to destroy it than I could ask you to destroy one of your buildings.
Let me suggest this. You excuse yourself for a few minutes, go to the ladies' room, leaving your briefcase here. What happens to the memorandum while it's in my custody is my responsibility.
Julie smiles.
I wish it were that simple. First of all, I don't have the memo with me. Even if I did--
It isn't safe to have that document.
Are you threatening me?
moves closer, touching her arm.
I'm trying to protect you. Does.  his lips, wondering if he can tru Does the name Robert Durant mean anything to you?
He's an underworld figure-- racketeering, drugs.
There's a pause.
Well, you're very eloquent, frankly I'm not certain what I should do. You'll have to trust me for a day or so to figure this out.
Is that the most I can extract from you?
For now.
I believe it is. Well then, my dear, I'm in your hands.
The song IM IR =E DARE Haunting. Sad. As Julie listens, she becomes more and more affected.
Time?
Ninety-six minute. A pause.
So, did you ask her?
This is unbelievable! Every day--
Time, Yakitito.
It still ninety six minute! Sounds to me that maybe you didn't ask her. Maybe your afraid?
Look, I asked her. She said no, okay? Well, she actually said "I don't know". Peyton stands and stretches. The telephone rings, Peyton moves to answer it.
I'll get it.
please be there Peyton.
Juts out of the shadows and clutches at Peyton's wrist!
Don't bother.
We hold on his shocked face as the phone rings and then stops.
A light hits Peyton's face. He turns to look.
comes on revealing Trumayne.
Rudy Guzman.
reveals the entire gang; Corky Corcoran and a grinning Smiley stand side by side. Near them, Skip. In the very back is Rick, looking a little green around the gills.
looks wildly about.
Panning from Skip to Rudy to Trumayne to--Pauly's fist, being launched directly into the camera.
is knocked back across the lab table. Glassware and equipment fly.
pulls him up and slams him into the wall.
sags down, then hauls himself to his knees to behold:
No foolish heroics, if you please. We have come only for documentstell us where to find the Bellasarious memorandum and we shall disappear-- like a nightmare before the breaking day.
BAM--BAM--Pauly has grabbed him by the hair and rams his head into the wall twice.
The Bellasaurious memorandum if you please...
I told you, I don't know what you're talking about! CRACKLE--Yakatito Yanagita is thrust into frame, his mouth stretched wide under the plastic bag that covers his head.
.Should your houseboy's predicament not jog your memory, you may bid him Godspeed.
Stop it! Let him breathe!
surges forward but a vicious backhand blow from Pauly sends him back to the floor. He raises his face just as--BAM--an orange flash plays on Peyton's horrified features. THUNK! Yakatito drops into frame in front of him.
(Revised scene is
With a trembling hand he holsters the gun. He withdraws a bottle of pills from his jacket. He shakes out two and swallows them dry.
emerges from the bedroom.
Bingo! He waves the coffee-stained document that he has found.
Fine...
s connects and is electrified. Unable to lot go, he shrieks a s his body
pulls himself to his knees, cradling the smoking claws that were his hands. Durant lifts him to his feet.
Please, Remain calm. Let's keep this orderly. Resistance now would only prompt acts of pointless cruelty. Durant gestures with a quick movement with his head.
grins with delight.
surveys the wrecked lab, then hands Trumayne his cigar trimmer. Softly:
Bring the Asian's fingers. (aloud; to his
.Gentlemen?
lies immobile.
stirs slightly, his breath a twisted WHEEZE. Slowly, he comes to his knees. Head and hands trailing smoke, he crawls toward the bobbing bird and lighter.
crawls to the base of the table which holds the bobbing bird and lighter.
86E CLOSE SHOT - SLOW MOTION 400 frames a second. A tiny spark is born. It grows.
91A Peyton's rag doll body spins end over end, upward towards the stars. Silently.
91B It takes a moment for the SOUND of the explosion to catch up with the blast-- KAAABOOOOMMMM!!! Noise that makes the earth shake.
99A FALLING BITS OF PAPER  SLOW MOTION 99A Change to falling leaves.
Didn't see you workin' out there.
Never found the guy's body, just an ear. Don't take long to bury that. Now sometimes when this happens folks'].]. be lookin' for a discount. But see, it ain't the diggin' that your payin' for, It's the real estate. They watch as...
The undifferentiated blue resolves itself, as a ripplin blue fluid, resembling the acid bath in Peyton's lab. A form emerges from it's depths; a completely bandaged head breaks the surface of the fluid.
Here we have a 25-30 year-old-male, no I.D., no medical history. Fished the guy out of the river with burns covering over forty percent of his body. His hands and.face were the most severe.
Ten years ago, pain from the burns would have been intolerable. The guy would have spent the rest of his screaming. Now we use the Rangeveritz technique; quite simply, we sever his spino-thalamic nerve...
.Here. Which, as you know, transmits neural-impulses of pain and vibratory sense to the brain.
112 ZIIIP! He collapses the pointer and returns it to his pocket.
No longer receiving impulses of pain, you stick him with a pin...
.and he can't even feel it. With a sharp practiced motion, he plucks out the pin.
Of course, there are serious emotional side effects to this operation. When the body ceases to feel, when so much sensory input is lost, the patient becomes alienated. The mind, cut off from its regular diet of input, has a never-satisfied thirst; alienation gives rise to loneliness, anger; uncontrolled rage is not uncommon. And the rage problem is exacerbated by the chemical effect of severing the nerve. Now, surges of adrenaline flow unchecked through body and brain-- giving him the strength of dozen men. Hence the leather restraints. The resident turns and heads for the door. The interns follow behind like ducklings.
Naturally, we give him every chance of recovery. He waves his hands about in futile circles letting the interns know that this is the party line.
.Remain optimistic... inspire confidence... Talk to him about rehabilitation potential... Personally? I give him a nine on the buzzard scale.
Code Blue, Burn Unit. All doctors report. Code Blue, Burn Unit.
Alright, move. I'm in charge here! Lemme through! He pushes his way to the front of the crowd and blinks stupidly at the camera.
growing misty. He staggers across the street after her.
terrified at the sight of...
Juuuuulieeeeee. Heeeeeeeelp meeeeeee...
A gasp caught in her throat, backs away...
removes his offending recoils, from her behind his back. horror-hand andtuck eitlshamefully
It's meeeeeee.
moves quickly away, her hand protecting her throat. Her fear is mixed with pity as she turns away from this monstrous man.
It's me. But she is too far away to hear.
despair. pull t follow them. He s overcome looks like the last d distance that Peyton to such a great t man on Earth.
stands in the doorway wearing the black tattered overcoat and bandages. He gapes at the wreckage of his former world.
Picks up an overturned end table and sets it right. 'Re, has started to pick up an overturned chair when the futility of it hits him.
i rorr reflects his moves to a scorched andbheenm his face a nd and gauze from to the bandaged face. He pulls peers at his reflection. We are not privy but it horrifies him. He shakes in a choked sob. We move down to the ashes to reveal...
grabs the, picture. In a fire ravaged voice;
When I'm W Do you still love me, now W can no u just some repulsive thing yo longer recognize? When I sicken YOU. When you run. A GLINT catches his eye. He turns.
He shakes as it floods him.
Gigantic radiating fissures appear in the walls... the ceiling... the floor... everywhere Peyton looks. He turns to us suddenly. THE CAMERA ROCKETS IN to his dark pupil. Within the blackness, we perceive--
160G Camera racing in towards Peyton's bandaged face six times,Peyton 160G same move, superfast ranting and raving, shaking rhis a fist r at r the a heavens with Biblical wrath. But we can't hear him. We pull back from his pupil to reveal...
cuts one of the skyscrapers neatly in half with the knife.
The Governor passes the piece to LOUIS STRACK JR. who sits at his side.
Louis, I want to take this opportunity to express my gratitude, my extreme gratitude--
 He's talking about my campaign
LOUD LAUGHTER. The Governor waves it away.
I'm talking about the Riverside development program. Louis, you've breathed new life into a neighborhood long ago lost to the democrats.
wearing a tight fitting, formal black dress. She forces a smile. She looks unhappy, but she looks good. She sits at a bar a little away from the party area.
Vodka and lime, please. A double. A business man, flushed with drink, observes her. He moves to the seat beside her.
Drowning your sorrows, eh?
Just giving them something to swim around in. She drinks the vodka quickly. She sighs.
Why don' ya tell all your troubles to old Jimbo?
Please remove your hand. The businessman has his hand on her thigh; it crawls upward. CONTINUED
clamps firmly down on his shoulder and spins him around.
Ferguson, you've had too much to drink.
Right away, Mr. Strack. Chastened, he beats a hasty retreat. Strack turns to Julie.
Thanks for getting rid of that guy.
Thank you for coming. I'm glad you're here. He takes her by the arm and starts to lead her across the crowded floor.
I haven't wanted to bother you during your period of grief, but I have to know whether you've come to a decision regarding the Belasarius Memorandum.
The decision's been made for both of us. The papers were destroyed in the fire. I want to forget all about that--
What?
Do you remember when I mentioned a certain competitor of mine, Robert G. Durant?
No. No. I've considered it. but the police ruled out arson. It burned hot. A gas fire. There was an acetylene leak -- the tiniest spark
She breaks off, getting choked up. Strack's manner is sympathetic and solemn.
Believe me, I am no stranger to the frustration and anguish that comes from the loss of a loved one. He forces himself to rally his spirits.
My dear, there's no cure for grief
He takes-her by the hand.
...But there is something that eases the symptoms. It's called... He sweeps her out onto the dance floor.
.Dancing!
finally smiles.
Julie, I was quite impressed with yo performance in the von Hoffenstein negotiations. Outstanding. I believe in instinct. I like yours. I want you to think about something. No need to decide now. But I'd like staff. you as a member of my permanent That's very flattering, my
commitments to Pappas
I've already spoken to Ed Pappas.
Don't be childish, I had every right. He doesn't want to lose you--said he'll fight tooth and nail to keep you at the firm. Good! I like a good scrap! If it's not worth fighting for it's not worth having. Just consider that I won't be outbid. Think about
resents being gripped and lectured to and yet... she senses in Strack, a power and magnetism that holds her.
I'll consider it... Strack smiles. As he sweeps her around, her eye catches something. Her face tightens.
Mr. Strack, I don't want to alarm you, but who is that man, speaking with the Governor?
turns to look.
chatting with the governor. He catches Strack's eye.
Holds eye contact for a moment.
That, my dear, is Robert Durant.
smiles.
I gotta take it easy. He pops two into his mouth, and swallows them dry.He enters the apartment building.
jerks awake. The place is suddenly totally dark.
We're gonna play a little game. It's tell called show and tell. First, y me everything.
Uh huh. Then I show you... how to scream. A terrifying pause. Then: Rick SCREAMS as his legs fall out from under him. CAMERA
You always knew there was something like me under the bed.
Plaster cracks and flies. Rick's bleeding face twitches in fear, on sanity's edge.
 .but let's pretend you didn't. His skeletal claw clamps down over the camera lens-
I've been bad. He looks to the moody sky. Inky clouds drift past overhead.
THE DAR1N A few swathed in bandages, staring. stands over the bed, y la over the age' But chords- from Love in the Dark p distorted now, ominous.
reaches out and delicately touches Julie's hair with a skeletal claw--a twisted reprise of the earlierher sscene. in instinctively hand. Julie shivers and Darkaan quickly y
I need you. He glances down to...
my face back. Even I've got to have if it's only for ninety-nine minutes.
suddenly sits up from a dream and cries;
Peyton...'
The curtains flutter in the wind. She is alone.
Protectively pulls her child back, away from the cart. We turn off, into.
as it twists, and grows narrow.
&wylight,
The steel door slides open, dletting eserted iwa rehouse revealing the interior
appears silhouetted in the doorway. He pushes the sh e p cart into the warehouse and disappears into s into a shaft of light. CAMERA past th t he darkness. darkness. He steps ra tt y up his old an. to andaged f dangling gauze, He surveys the cavernous interior.
(in a fire-
Home.
carefully connects one nd ofnanrinsulated cord to the metal base of one of the Y
All I need is one, clear, picture. He moves to a salvaged photograph album.
throws the album against the wall. He turns back to the original burned photo.
This'll have to do.
slides the charred photo of himself through the input slot of a computer.
(Revised Some is
taps in data that appears on the computer screen: Extrapolate left lower quadrant "C" to lower quadrant "D." Extrapolate quadrant "F" to quadrant "E." Ignore light variables. 8.7 millimoles. Scale: 1.38 millimoles Etc. The computer HUMS AND BEEPS... The screen blanks and the following information appears. Reconstitution will take 71 hours and 57 minutes.
P191 OUR VIEW curves up to:
Preparing a batch of liquid skin. He peers down into the microscope. One hand holding something just off frame. Darkaman lifts his head and sniffs at a wisp of smoke. CAMERA PANS WITH HIS
(Revised scene numbers
His OUTSTRETCHED HAND boney fingers poke through the bandages as he gently skin over the flame of a swirls a test t He to no tice is hand has l f ailed B Bunsen unsen burner. is burning.
and studie s the pulls his handaY ois the lack o o ormal rmal
smoldering digits. n
sensation. Qui
My hands.. They took my hands. He sits on the lab stool studying his charred palms in the dark. P193
sitting on the lab stool in the exact same position, in still studying his gnarled knuckles. Sunlight pours quickly the lab from a small ceiling window. He turns bles up from his
through window of restaurant. The extreme telephoto shows us Pauly eating a chili dog at a booth. He's looking for somebody. SKIP and GUZMAN enter the restaurant and take the seats across from him. Guzman slides a briefcase under the table to Pauly. Pauly downs the butt end of the chili dog and washes it down with a Maalox chaser. He takes the briefcase and exits. CLICK--freezes all three as they exit in black and white.
disguised as a bagman, in an alley across the street from the restaurant, peering through a camera.
197A Skip and Guzman going in one direction, Pauly in another. CLICK--freezes the moment.
197E CLICK--Pauly moving away, carrying the briefcase. CLICK--he looks to his right, and CLICK--to his left.
197C CLOSE-UP: PAULY'S HAND swinging slightly as it carries the briefcase. The final CLICK of the shutter is heard
(Revised Scene Numbers
t a as enters frame, atop a lab table. Camera tracks Si ac ne. On an other e it passes between rows of photographs of Pauly' hands which hang dripping from a clothesli clothes-line are pictures of all the other gang members, taken at different places and times.
smooths the wrinkled synthetic skin and holds up his "new" hand. It is a flawless imitation of Pauly's. He raises it to his eyes. They-shine fiercely.
ief over hi presses a chlorofrmedOhgnTheh alarm clocksRlNGSh nose. Be struggles. The Pauly sinks into a deep chloroform from hisdface gloved hand removes the The only sound is the TICKING of the clock. We PULL BACK to reveal that we are:
removes a suitcase shutt.From hiskratty b lack Pauly's clothes, latches
The mummified Darkman isreflected carefully unwraps the than it is 's , the complexion a sh sould be . PTheyskin aulittle tighter little better.
s t e k c o P to watch a handfulrof Pauly'ss the medicine cabinet cologne.
SKIP is. Durant wants to know where Rick He's really hot about it--really hot. Don't ask me why--the old man really likes Rick. You know where Rick is? He is looking at Darkman/Pauly.
shrugs an exaggerated "haw-would-I-know?" Guzman is too angry to notice.
Durant piss me off. How de hell should we know where Rick is? What are we, de baby-sitter? He places the briefcase on the floor and is about to slide it across, but hesitates. He eyes Darkman/Pauly suspiciously.
You okay, Pauly? You looking funny.
shrugs, reaches into his pocket, pulls out a bottle of Maalox, and takes a slug. Guzman slides the briefcase across the floor to Darkman/Pauly. Darkman/Pauly, without saying a word, takes the briefcase and exits.
What's with him?
The door is kicked off its hinges revealing GUZMAN.
is sitting up in bed. AlthoughPhhets just hwaking s c is dressed in a suit and tie. lothes, then looks quizzically up at Guzman.
lifts Pauly from the bed and shoves him into a chair. Pauly looks up to see:
glaring down at him.
Pauly... we've been very concerned about. You. Pauly doesn't have a clue. But the display of muscle isn't lost on him. He clutches at his sore head and
Hey, Mr. Durant...
y, I guess I musts overslept. I'm sorr I missed the pick-up, huh?
Where is the money, Pauly?
p. What money? I didn't make the pick-u Durant crosses to the suitcase and picks up one of the airline tickets. His smile is strained.
Rio... And first class. How delightful. (picks up other
n A , and one for Rick. Well, this explains his disappearance. Durant glances to Guzman who opens Pauly's PACKED SUITCASE.
Hey, I don't know nothing about that... I--
Where is the money, Pauly?
What money?! I swear to God, Mr. Durant, I didn't make the pick-uP! I been right here sleepin'... Jesus, I swear to God!!
tucks the tickets into Pauly's jacket.
Well, Pauly, I wouldn't want you to miss your flight.
Pauly CRASHES through the window on the 23rd floor.
His body twists in the air, hurtling toward the ground.
Turns away from the crowd of gavkers gathering around the body. His eyes widen in alarm. His synthetic cheek is melting where the bright sunlight hits it. A bubbling skin blister cracks open and smokes. His hand covers the blister. He pulls the stopwatch from his pocket.
still clutching. the briefcase of cash, jogs into the cool dark of an alley. A thin wisp of smoke trails behind to the darkness. him as-he disappears in
I want to thank you for a lovely evening, Louis. It's been a long time since I've been able to really enjoy myself--to forget... Can I offer you a drink? We pan the room to reveal Strack, just inside the front door.
Thank you, whiskey neat. He takes off his coat.
...Would it be all right if I used your telephone?
It's on the etagere... Strack has already found it and is dialing.
Franz... Louis Strack here what gold close at in Zurich? play ...for fifty- Insai ou nd Kru nd Krug rrandsawhe the market th ousa e n orning. opens in the m Strack. hangs up the phone and turns towards Julie.
E haven't felt this alive since the days of the Silver Puts and t o remember Calls. 'Course you're too you
that. I guess I'm jus hill financier trying to recapture a few moments from his glory days. Julie hands Strack a drink.
Don't be childish, Louis, it's unbecoming to fish for compliments. Strack laughs good-naturedly.
like that ine. You away fanything. don't eleame get He sighs and sits down on the sofa, sips his drink and
You know, as much as I'd like to thi differently, i suppose I'm not above the occasional childish bid for attention. Juliesmiles.
Like anyone else.
Like anyone else indeed. in all respects. It's difficult, somettiimess, being in a position of power--people defer to you, people tell you what short , , they think you want o ur humanity... they rob you of y you'll accuse me of pleading for sympathy again.
No, I understand...
turns away, setting his drink on a coaster. He notices Peyton's gift.
..Were you ever married, Louis?
Yes. Once upon a time. Married and in love -- deeply, deeply in love...
I lost her...
I'm sorry. Strack strains to conceal the bitterness of his grief.
Private aircraft. over the Smokeys. Painless. Quick. utterly pointless. You can fight a disease. Another man? You can fight that too. But this... Quietly,_within himself:
...I don't like things I can't fight. Their eyes meet, both united by loss.
It must have been a terrible time. I wondered how you understood. About me. You've been very patient. And very kind. Strack smiles warmly. He takes her hand.
God help us when there's no more room in this world for a little kindness...
impatiently TAP!-TAP!-TAPl upon the lab table.
(Revised Scene Is
voice) le .rema- Okay... okay... remain stab
frozen, above the microscope.
looks at his carbonized claws in disgust. They at his bandaged skull. He stands suddenly and to the empty warehouse:
spins sharply to the cat, the vein on his temple pulsates.
calls after it;
Is that it?! Maybe I should be wearing some funny little hat! He does an angry jig for the cat.
Pay five bucks. SEE THE DANCING
rips a water pipe from the wall with a terrible The wrenching. sound., Water gushes out. is an shatters crates with the pipe and again, but halts as he sees his reflection in the growing puddle.
S262 DARIQ'iANS REFLECTION in the puddle. It is the image of a madman. S263
staggers to a post, his-bandaged face caught half in light and shadow--a man at war with inner demons. He slams his head against the post.
He takes in a deep breath and concentrates on his.
He forces it to.unclench.
I got to keep a lid on it. The pipe falls.
moves to a cooler light.
With less conviction:
.I'm... a scientist.
Julie. She spins to face this intruder into her quiet grief.
Julie...
Is it really...?
I--I'm sorry... I didn't know how to tell you...
I thought you were dead...
I was in a burn ward -- wa s burned. a ae- to the world. I Bad.
You look the same. You look fine.
I am the same. I an fine. I...
277 He glances at his watch. He grows intense. The Darkman stares through his blue eyes.
e the Z same w with know if things could i
Of course they can. But I don't understand. Where ---
e please, rythi I tell You justl need little
time.
Sold me, Peyton. Hold me and never let me go. I've been so unhappy and I want you to hold me forever.
is lurching to his feet.
Sweetheart. . I'm sorry.
is stunned, bewildered.
Peyton...
Peyton, it's like you were never gone. I'm happy again, and it's like the time in between never happened.
It never happened. It was a bad dream. They kiss passionately. ve in the Dark theme comes on.
circles the lovers... as we pass around Julie over to Peyton -- who is no longer Peyton, but transformed into:
his horrible scarred face pressed against Julie's. .then lets out an Julie's eyes open. She reels back.
He grasps a offscreen object with the tweezers andit removes it from the formaldehyde solution. He pats dry with a white cloth.
Get Rudy on the phone. Uh huh. Rudy ... Listen. Just shut up and listen. You get a little gift from Chinatown, today? No? Well that coney that Pauly took is really stingin' my ass... Uh huh. No. We do it my way. You Tell Hung Fat that I'm coming by tomorrow to make the pick-up personally. Either he coughs green or he becomes part of my collection.
He places the object in a box, lined with red velvet. He takes a long, admiring look. We get only a glimpse.
it would be a nice addition.
Jew want me to be at your place ... around 8:30?
That would be just fine for me. We are tracking off the cassette up a long cord that leads to a pair of headsets worn by Darkman. His eyes glisten through the slits of his bandages. A set of hands enter frame and crack him viciously across the head. He sprawls backward, caught off guard.
Hey shithead, give up the radio. And the money. Like lightening, a skeletal claw lashes out.
gleam like a shark as it bites.
SCREAMS, dropping the switchblade to the pavement.
turns to Mugger #2, as he pulls down the bandages from around his mouth, revealing: a terrible maw of black and crooked teeth, attached to a lipless jawbone. It jerks... and words come out:
Run for your life.
flee in fear.
contorts his face into a ghastly interpretation of a smile, and slips back into the shadows.
But why do you have to stay at this burn center? You can stay at my place now.
closes around Peyton's--real skin on synthetic skin.
-- kinks. Peyton glances at his watch. 97 minutes.
Peyton, I still don't understand. Why didn't you come back to see me before now?
Well... it's like I told you. The burns left some scars and... I was ashamed. Afraid. I was afraid that you wouldn't want me anymore.
Of course I still want you.
But...what if I was...burned. So horribly burned, that you couldn't stand to look at me. Couldn't stand to have me touch you. What then?
Well...if that were the case... I don't know. But why even ask me that? The point is: You're fine. Your back. Just like always. She smiles. Peyton is filled with the warmth of being accepted and wanted once again.
Yeah. I am back, aren't I? Just like always.
From offscreen we hear Durant's recorded voice:
That would be just fine for me.
sleeps. We hear the garbled chatter of the audio tape being rewound. We are panning past the Walkman, which is wired to the computer. The tape stops, then, as programmed, plays again.
That would be just fine for me. We pan past the back of the Darkman's head. The - bandages have been removed. Although his face is not visible, the singed hairless back of his skull is. It is not a pretty sight.
That would be just fine for me. The Darkman switches off the desk lamp and removes a mask from a black lightproof bag. He examines it, returns the mask to the bag, then slips it into his coat. The camera arcs around to see the bottom half of his skeletal face.
That would be... CLICK--the Darkman stops the tape mid-sentence and his own hideously charred mandible finishes it:
..just fine for me.
cw. f
The impression is good, though slightly thick. The Darkman strokes his jawbone thoughtfully.
Wanna bag for that?
That would be just fine for me. 292 The clerk bags the pizzas as Durant pulls out a 292 revolver from his suit coat. The clerk takes a Fearful step back.
Hey-hey, take it easy, buddy!
Name ain't buddy. It's Durant. He waits for the video security camera to pan to him and stop. He cheats in toward the lens for a good clear close-up that fills the screen.. .Robert G. Durant
Matching the previous shot except that it is in color. He is speaking to someone just off camera.
Yeah, I'.m Robert G. Durant... The camera is pulling back to reveal that he is
standing in the open doorway of his home, facing cops. He glances at his watch.
..But I'm in a hurry. Got a meeting at nine.
hesitates, calculating the intensity of the sunlight. He sneaks a glance at his watch.
.had it all on film. I almost didn't get 'em to post bail.
Just keep 'em out of my hair.
Hey where you going?
Jumps into a waiting taxi cab and bellows at
The Mandarin! Fast! The cab PEELS out.
Wahbuht! So good of you to favor me with your venerated presence! Please honor me by seating yourself in my shabby chair! Darkman/Durant remains impassively standing.
. or do me the greater honor of remaining on your feet!
The money.
The money! Yes! Wahbuht! How I tremble with shame. How I hide my face. He elaborately does so with his hands.
Studies Durant/Darkman with uncertainty. After another beat of uncomfortable silence, he decides to begin for his boss.
We no here for de bullshit, we here to pick up de money and thas what we do.
glances up at the harsh fluorescent light. He runs a. hand across the artificial flesh'of his face, checking for signs of decomposition. He sneaks a look to his...
93 minutes.
How I regret having to burden you with my miserable difficulties! I have no money! The Darkman's eyes shift. He was not expecting this. Hung Fat is waiting for an explosion. There is none. Sensing an advantage, he presses on.
.The white powder no longer flows in iis former volume. All a members of
in poverty...
Studies the Darkman hard. How can he tolerate this?
And of all your unworthy servants, Hung Fat is the most destitute... As if in response to some silent signal, four enormous and muscular Chinese men enter and stand, arms crossed, in a threatening posture. Even Hung Fat's own minable slaves sometimes ignore his wishes, and attack those people whom Hung Fat cherishes most deeply! Wahbuht, they know nothing of our golden friendship!
is looking from Hung Fat to Durant/Darkman; what's wrong? Why doesn't he do something?
So until that shining day -- may it soon come! -- when I shall once again be able to honor you with bounty, I bid you goodbye! Good bye, Wahbuht! He is shaking his hand, pressing his advantage, invading his physical space and making mockery of him!
.. Wahbuht, goodbye!
can't believe his eyes.
letting Hung Fat pump his hand like an idiot. Hung Fat drops his hand. It dangles lamely at his side. The Darkman walks over to a bamboo chair and slumps. closes his eyes and sighs. He removes a cigar from his breast pocket. With his eyes closed:
You will bring me the five million dollars by the time I finish this cigar.
SNIP'. Hung Fat flinches at what he sees. The camera pans to the sound. the cigar to a third of its The Darkman has just snippe d and puffs. former size. He lights
His mocking smile disappears as he sees...
dumbly nods. Without a trace of an accent:
.Okay, Bob, you win.
grabs the case. As he exits the office with Guzman he sneaks a look at:
spins, caught. CONTINUED
He reaches into a pocket, pulls out... ...Durant's monogrammed lighter, which he hands to Durant/Darkman.
Your lighter.
where is he?!
Where's who?!
Guzman.
I thought he was with you!
sprints for the restaurant.
whose disbelieving face moves closer to get a better look.
stands upon the sidewalk, gaping in wonder.
Dios Mio! Aye que papa!
shoves the door forward, dislodging the stunned Real Durant. He rotates past Guzman and points to the Real Durant, revolving behind him.
draws his gun and waits, sweating.
spins past the incredulous him to the Durant shoot him. Real Durant points
The revolving doors whirl faster. Round he goes.
nods, recalibrates his orders and stands ready to fire.
spins past him.
doesn't know who to plug.
waves his gun back and forth, from one Durant to the other.
slams Durant's face against the brick wall of the restaurant. One Durant falls to the pavement, clutching his head, groggy.
raises an uncertain gun to the standing Durant.
Son of a bitch set me up with the cops and you practically hand him the cash!
watches warily as Standing Durant picks up the briefcase.
What the hell you lookin'at?! SHOOT
retrains his gun on the fallen Durant who covers his face. But before he fires, he gives a final glance to Standing Durant.
What are you, deaf?! He notes a wisp of smoke and knows the jig is up. He slams the briefcase into Guzman's face -- THWACK! -- knocking him to the ground. The Darkman sprints down the sidewalk through the crowd.
climbs to his feet, holding his bleeding head. He backhands Guzman across the face--CRACK! He grabs Guzman's gun and runs after his alter-ego.
woozily pulls a snub nosed .45 from his ankle holster and gamely follows.
races down the street, leaving a thin trail of yellow smoke. He halts at a busy intersection. Cars speed past. No way to cross. He turns to the sound of gunshots.
gun in hand, and closing fast. A cart filed with crates is wheeled directly in his path. Real Durant gracefully leaps atop the crates, and never letting up his rain of fire, springs from them. While in free-fall, he ejects the spent cartridge and snaps in a fresh clip. He lands . firing!
in a shower
hear the frightened scatter.
his wound He touches
Got you.
is slims and translucent. Durant holds it to the light. It's the mask of his own face. It smolders and melts. He f1Ligs it away.
notes drops of blood which lead off the platform and down into the dark subway tunnel.
We ain't going in dere are we?! Durant pulls a tiny penlight from his pocket and leaps from the platform onto the track bed.
holds up his hand commanding silence as-they come to an intersection of subway tunnels. Both lead into darkness. They listen, but all is quiet. They speak in hushed tones.
Now what?
You go that way. We'll take this one.
doesn't look too thrilled by the prospect of being alone in the tunnels.
Alone?
No. Take a fucking squad of marines with you!
tosses him the penlight. Hard. Casually he lights a cigar and continues forward.
watches Durant and Guzman disappear down the tunnel. The sound of their footsteps recedes. Trumayne's breathing is shallow. He loosens his necktie and unbuttons his collar. He takes a breath.
Okay.
Trumayne flinches. He points the penlight in the direction of the clanging sound.
An empty wine bottle at his feet is illuminated. rolls to a stop against the tunnel wall. He listens. Silence.
Gettin' jumpy. Like Rick. A faint cough comes from the blackness ahead.
raises the penlight.
The cough again.
heaves the bottle at the sound.
waitsr the crash, ready to fire at anything that moves.. -
Black. No sound.
still waiting, nerves on edge. Where's the crash?!
The oppressive dark.
shudders Something in the darkness has swallowed the bottle. He begins to back out of the tunnel the way he came. He freezes in the center of a tunnel intersection at the sound of FOOTSTEPS. Crunching on gravel; Approaching. He fingers the gun's trigger. Empty tunnels on all sides. The FOOTSTEPS quicken.
Mr. Durant?! Panicked, Trumayne shines his light in front of him. Empty tunnel. The FOOTSTEPS come faster, closer.
Guzman?! He jerks his penlight to the tunnel behind him. Nothing.
To his right... nothing. To his left... nothing. He's trying to see all the tunnels at once. He spins desperately, firing into each of them.
spits flame--BLAM!
is illuminated by the brilliant flash of the gun. Empty. The light fades.
spins and fires -- BOOM!
are lit up. Crazed with fear. The illumination fades.
spins and spits sparks--BEAM!
illuminated--empty. The light fades.
P318 TUNNEL
look like saucers.
even looks a little scared.
Oh shit, man. What did he do, man... eat him? From the tunnel ahead, FOOTSTEPS approach. The two men squint, attempting to pierce the blackness.
Trumayne?! The FOOTSTEPS grow louder. Closer.
.Hey, amigo, dat chew?! From the darkness, a figure emerges and runs at them.
The dark figure, lurches and collapses upon the ties. A shaft of light reveals it to be...
gagged, with his hands tied behind his back, a wild look of terror in his dead eyes.
looks about, gets control, loads a fresh clip into his gun with an echoing SNAP.
waves his arms in surrender.
Good Bye. Das it. I'm outta here... Durant grabs him.
Where the hell are you going?
pulls free.
Durant looks wildly over his shoulder as he runs for his life.
The train begins its long roar past. We hear an AGONIZED SCREAM that is either the train or Durant -- or some ungodly combination.
from the light pouring out the passing train windows.
throw blue sparks into the darkness.
The long subway train rolls into the distance. It's rumble fades. Quiet. Durant's cigar smoulders on the tracks.
We cut from Darkman's ravaged monster-face to:
beautiful as ever.
-- Peyton! Where have you been? Why haven't you called?
Various close shots of leering horses bobbing up and down. We are at a carnival.
laughing, his face restored, walking down the midway, one arm draped over Julie's shoulder. She laughs with him. Peyton glances at his watch.
Put away that watch or I'll think you don't like me anymore. Oh, Peyton, let's spend the whole day together -- the whole week! A beat.
I've got to tell you, Julie... I've got to tell you something about -- about me -- how I've changed. Julie turns.
In the fire -- I -- I A voice offscreen rises above the general noise:
See the mutant man, half man, half beast! Witness this prodigy of science with your own eyes! Peyton whirls around.
What?
Never mind.
What's going on, Peyton? What are you keeping from me?
Peyton Ares at Julie. He can't bring himself to tell her.
C'mon, I'm going to win you the biggest' fuzziest pinkiest animal doll on that rack. Something you'll-be truly embarrassed to own... and then I've got to run. They have stopped in front of a booth where softballs get tossed at bottle pyramids. Peyton lays down a dollar and is handed three balls.
Why do you always have to run? Peyton looks at the pyramid, avoiding her look. He throws the first ball; misses. -
I. have my treatment... I'm not a hundred percent cured yet--but I soon will be. He throws the second ball; misses.
Can I take you back to the burn center? Peyton's vein begins to throb faintly.
No! No, please. I don't want you to see me there. I don't want you to think of me as...an invalid or... some kind of f--ff-fff--FREAK! On that word he throws the last ball with great force. The pyramid explodes. Peyton, breathing heavily, takes a moment to collect himself, then says quietly to the booth attendant:
...The pink elephant, please. The bored attendant, a cigarette dangling from his lower lip, shakes his head.
Sorry buddy. It don't count if you ain't standing behind that line.
I was behind the line.
Not hardly.
I was standing right here. Next to my girlfriend. Now. The pink elephant, .if you please!
Na way. Julie tugs at his sleeve.
Peyton, it doesn't matter. Peyton is fighting to contain his rage. in clipped words, between gasps for breath:
It matters. I won a pink elephant. For my girlfriend.
Peyton... It's okay...
Get lost, buddy.
Shaking under the pressure of contained rage, his vein bulging, throbbing. Under his-breath:
The elephant... Quickly! The attendant unwisely pushes two fingers into Peyton's chest. We rocket into a close shot of the offending digits. From of fscreen, we hear the attendant's voice:
You heard me, weirdo. Get lost!
The counter dissolves into a million fissures, as do the stuffed animals on the shelves above.
Screaming. A skin blister bubbles on his cheek.
The attendant screams. Peyton screams with him. Julie screams as well.
shoves it at Julie. In a voice hoarse with rage:
Take it!
Peyton! No!
'Take it!
Please!
Forgive me! He runs off, the fuzzy pink elephant still clasped, forgotten, beneath one arm.
Peyton!
disappears around a corner, trailing thin wisps Of smoke.
Peyton?! 364 No answer. She cautiously advances. Her eyes fall 364 upon something that makes her gasp.
366 He moves forward towards a darkened corner of 366 the lab.
Peyton?! I need to talk to you. She halts at a site in front of her.
Dear God.
backs away frightened, right into.
her hand trembles as she lifts the eyeless face into frame. She forces herself to examine it closely. Her the revulsion gives way to pity. She brings it into beam of light.
Presses bimself into the shadows.
Peyton. .?
turns his head sharply. Only the upper right corner of his face falls into the light. The handsome, undamaged portion.
Why didn't you tell me? If you loved me, why didn't you tell me?
shamed, to be both coward and monster, clutches his bony hand to his skull.
You had no right--
coward!
Do you think it was the face I cared about?! Is that how little you think of me?! Why didn't you come to me?
He is shaken by a silent sob. More of his face falls into light, illuminating leathery neck muscles and hideous bone.
I would have helped you. She stares into the shadows a long time without speaking.
Don't you know I love you, Peyton? And no matter what--no matter what you've become I'll always love you?
(too quietly to
Julie... (then louder; in Julie.
Like a swan he dives. He rolls, luxuriating in the feel of gold against flesh, laughter bubbling from his lips. Gold coins stick to his flushed, sweating flesh, then slough off, leaving their imprint. Strack makes swimming motions with his arms, laving himself with the golden coins-- A knock at the door. Strack freezes.
Huhh??:!
Julie Hasting's to see you, Mr. Strack.
Strack43 eyes dart nervously to the door.
Very well... He stands. A coin or two falls from his dimpled ass as he reaches down for his pants.
Julie, how sweet of you to come before our appointed hour... but I expected-- you in something a little more formal. Didn't Ruth inform you that we have tickets to Der Fliedermause tonight?
I can't go, Louis. We have to talk.
Excellent! I love to talk. Brandy?
Thank you, no.
I'll have one;_ As he walks to a bar and pours himself a drink.
...Fair warning--it's Napoleon, and it's quite good--
Louis, I can't see you anymore.
Darling, settle down. Don't be rash. As you say, let's talk.
You know about Peyton, the man I was
Louis, he's alive. He's back. He was burned, horribly, horribly burned--I don't understand what happened but I know he needs my help. Strack is visibly taken aback. He sets the brandy down.
.Your news has a bittersweet flavor... Of course I'm very happy for you. If there's anything I can do-- the finest medical care can be at your disposal--burn therapy, recon- structive surgery. How badly was he... mutilated? Julie has broken down. She sits down on Strack's sofa, her body wracked with sobs.
... Where is he, Julie?
He's living in an abandoned warehouse. He's alone... he needs me. The phone RINGS. Strack crosses to the desk and picks it up.
Not now!... Who?... All right, I'll take it in the other room. He looks up at Julie.
I won't be a moment. He walks into an adjoining room. He picks up the phone.
Yes, Franz... And the closing price?...
She reaches for a tissue. Next to it is.
Strack's briefcase sitting on top of his desk.
Wipes a tear from her eyes. She moves closer.
I feel sufficiently diversified... Franz, it is immaterial to me what the market is doing. I want you to buy...
A sheaf of papers stick up above the mouth of the briefcase.
Yes, you did hear me correctly. I want you to buy. Ten thousand Krugerands. Fresh ones!
Yes. The Belasarious memorandum.
whirls to face him. He stands looking down over her shoulder.
.I'm sorry you had to find that, dear. Our relationship didn't need this further strain.
The fire... it wasn't an accident, it was you.
Not me personally. I have an employee who does certain things for me, unofficially, off the books. Robert doesn't like to pay taxes.
Hardly. You have nothing on me, my dear, and you'd find the extremely expensive police department quite unsympathetic. . Julie. Consider the big picture.
I suppose this is goodbye then. Julie stares hatefully at him for a beat, then hurries out the door.
Send Robert in. Strack strolls over to the window and stares out at his rising city. OS the door clicks open.
Robert! I have good news and bad.
Custom dictates that you render the bad news first.
You recall the little difficulty with my father and how you resolved it. We have a similar situation with Miss Hastings. It seems Miss Hastings has uncovered some unflattering information about us.
No problem at all. And the good news?
Your wife died. I'm joking, of course. No, the good news is that I know who's behind our little troubles of late. When you retrieved my memorandum, you failed to excise the good doctor.
Westlake? He's dead. I saw to it myself.
He's alive. I don't like loose ends, Robert. Finish it.
Okay. Where is he? Strack smiles.
I believe we have a guide.
turns to run.
Peyton!! Guzman races out of one continental, Smiley out the other.
He races toward the door.
The rooftop is riddled by bullets.
rises suddenly into frame, over the edge of Peres a roof. leaning , o undin h h machine gun , p g t e roof with gunfire.
Peg 'em!
is kicked open as Smiley and Guzman enter, guns ps blazing, shooting the lab to hell. The gunfire sto and the lab is quiet. Guzman speaks quietly into a walkee-talkee.
we're in.
He just went down from the roof.
Glances above to the darkened rafters ofathence one to warehouse. Then, signals for Smiley way. He will go another. They split up.
...Holy San Juan de fuckeen Capistrano!
moves through the dimly lit lab area. Gun out, checking every crevice.
Come in, Smiley, come in! Come--
405 Smiley turns off the walkee-talkee. i m. are almost atop him. He takes a
is hip to the Darkman's game. He smiles. The gun belches flame at the masked figure.
peEjz back the mask with the barrel of his gun revealing. . GUZMAN!!
loses his smile. A third Smiley stands slowly into frame behind the spooked Smiley.
Good shootin'.
looks from the dead Smiley to his short as the SHRIEKS! But it's mercifully cut Darkman is upon him.
Guzman, come in! Smiley! Guzman! What the fuck is going on down there?! A burst of STATIC. Then:
Take her down!
The pilot lowers the throttle stick and
412A the chopper swoops down.
I want that son of a bitch eliminated! And I don't want his fingers, I want his fucking head!
They advance slowly across the room... not a sound in the darkness except their footsteps and the occasional beep of a computer... the air is tense with danger.
Where are you?! Pilot.and Durant look toward the entrance of the warehouse. The door is closed. Suddenly...
WHOMPI--a bandaged hand slams into Durant's chest grab bim and start hauling him towards the door. The Darkman is dragging him out towards the roof.
is yanked from his feet.
climbs, lifting the Darkman clear of the rooftop.
Closer... closer...
is hurled through the window of an office on the 70th floor of a skyscraper.
The faces of the executives whirling in a circle like numbers on a roulette wheel.
431 Suddenly, the faces start to recede... SMASH!... The Darkman is yanked back out the window, breaking the remaining glass.
Dip him!
is dipped into oncoming traffic. He barely clears the roof of a Cadillac by swinging his legs above it.
is lifted straight into the path of a fast-moving truck. Truck HONKS furiously. Darkman strains his legs. CLOSE-UP: TRACKING over the truck's aluminum roof.
Looking forward over Durant's and pilot's shoulders. The:pa3at has the stick. We are rushing directly town an overpass.
B442 Wind whipping at his coat looking up at the doomed helicopter, the Darkman bellows his triumph.
taking up the entire screen. --impact--KABOOM!
B444 Darkman, LAUGHING on the truck, races through the darkness,
444A flaming debris from the helicopter cascading over the mouth of the tunnel.
We've consolidated the waterfront, Governor ...Yes, I'm aware there's been some unpleasantness but that's over now. Yes, I'm sure. You sound a little nervous, Bryant. Have a brandy, watch a cop show. The door opens. A security officer appears.
Robert Durant, sir.
enters. He looks awful--face scorched and bruised, severe limp.
You look like hell, Robert.
The son of a bitch malfunctioned my helicopter.
And Westlake?
'f ie man's a cockroach. You think you ;tall him, and he pops up someplace , Ise. A beat.
g expect he'll pop up here soon.
P446 stars all around us.
I'm glad you survived, Robert. I'd hate to see your kids deprived of a role-model.
They do look up to me. The elevator grinds to a halt and the two emerge. The lights of the city tremble over the water. A glitter and breadth to the landscape, an urban grandeur.
Kids need an example, Robert. When I was a young man my father made me work high steel. That's how he started out, and in his view what was good enough for him was good enough for me...
Strack gestures broadly with one arm.
...It was just me and the Indians, no one else crazy enough to run around up here, against the wind, four-fifty an hour. Sure I resented it, but now-- call me crazy--sometimes I miss it, it sharpens your wits. Life on the edge. Five inches wide. Two hundred fifty feet down. High steel... He turns to face Durant. There's a gun in his hand.
You don't have any kids, Robert.
What are you talking about?
Or should I say, Doctor Westlake?
I'm Durant! Robert G. Durant!
Then I'm going to make a mistake. There's a long beat. The vein begins to pulse on Durant's temple. His eyes grow predatory, evil.
You want to see the girl? Follow me, I'll take you to her... Durant/Darkman follows, taking the first few tentative steps.
...I must say, Dr. Westlake, you've certainly worked some mischief. Pretty much wiped out the security arm of Strack Industries. That's okay. I'm a good sport... He leaps from beam to beam, Durant/Darkman following cautiously behind.
...And I can handle my own problems. I do whatever I have to do. In fact, that's how I got my first properties. My wife--late wife--held certain deeds... I sent her on a plane trip over the Smokies and well, let's just say ;landed on My feet...
All I have are nightmares. A beat.
Then share my dream. After all, you and I are pretty much the same. We should be working together. Both smart fellows. Similar styles. Same taste in women. I could use a man like you.
Eventually, eventually... He proceeds nimbly along the beam.
I guess you just don't have what it takes. I gather you run around wearing other people's faces now, since yours is so... loathsome. He shrugs.
.See I could never do that. The world has to take me as I am. And all this tit-for- tat stuff you've been up to. Silly. Living in the past. ; only destroy to build something better, whereas You.. ah, here we are.
Julie! Strack laughs.
Bring on the strings! Young lovers! In peril! Separated by ruthless forces, larger than they!--What a banal tale. In it, I suppose I play the villain. But wait, Julie--which of us is the monster here?! With this he reaches over to Durant and--SQUISHHHRIPPP!! -- tears his face off, tossing it over the edge..
gazes at Darkman's ghastly visage for the first time, overcome by horror and repulsion. Darkman's vein pulses like csa y.. Strack"s tone is almost admiring:
You truly are one ugly son of a bitch.
Strack shoots Darkman in the shoulder, hurling him off the bean. The Darkman tumbles, limbs flailing, bellowing with rage.
Spinning upside down--stars, abyss, stars, abyss--
As Darkman's fingertips clamp onto the upper lip of an I-beam... barely hanging on, vein pulsing.
recoils as Strack stops in front of her. He touches her hair.
He places his hands on her shoulders, preparing to push her off the girder. With intensity:
-It is the tragedy of my life that I always have to kill the ones I love. As he's about to push her:
Strack turns around.
Father?
Darkman mashes his face and the gun flies out of his hand into the darkness below.
battle it out on the narrow girder, hundreds of feet sure death on either side of them.
swoops onto Strack, pummelling him.
inching painfully toward the rivet gun.
pummelling, lost in the act of his final revenge. He steps back to give a final blow... .and slips on some loose rivets, flailing for balance.
lunges. CLANG! Darkman slams into a vertical bar.
Now you get to watch your girl-friend die. He moves toward a terrified Julie.
SHRIEKS and reality melts around him as he tastes the hot soup of rage.
Gigantic fissures appear on all the girders... we spin into Darkman's eyeball to find--
pounces. He lifts him full into the air. Strack's legs and arms flail impotently.
Darkman hurls him up, up into the air. 463 Strack rises helpless, flailing his limbs... then begins 463 to fall, yards away from the girder. 464 He spins, end over end, to--PPHHHHFFFTHHMP!--be impaled 464 on the rebars many floors below, next to Durant's face.
Peyton, I can help.
No one can help.
I don't care how you look, Peyton! I. love you. The burns don't matter. There's a long pause. Then Darkman turns the twisted remains of. his face toward her. Julie sees them in close-up. CLAMP! The elevator jars to a halt on street level.
Take my hand. Julie stares at the charred skeletal fingers. She overcomes her repulsion and puts her hand in his.
It disgusts you.
No. Darkman stares at her a long time, anguished, torn.
This hand... it used to caress you. Now it can only tear, rip away at things.
But you'll perfect the skin. You'll get rid of the scars.
It's not just the scars. I've changed- He grips his skull.
--inside. He pulls the elevator open.
(tears in her
I want it back. The two of us--the way it was... Darkman's voice breaks:
What we had--our life together--it belonged in the light of day. He disappears into the darkness.
Peyton! Darkman's voice floats back as he stalks away:
Peyton is gone... 466 He heads into the shadows. At the edge of the darkness 466 he pulls a mask from his coat and disappears behind a construction trailer. A pedestrian reappears on the other side. Julie knows it's!Darkman. She chases after him but he slips into the pedestrian traffic. The camera hurries down the street with Julie as she desperately searches for him, turning people around, staring at their faces... It begins to snow.
Peyton! She rushes from pedestrian to pedestrian, staring into alien faces in search of the man she loves.
