Hey, hey! Careful Clara! You were the one who told me not to mess up the precious picture piles! he gives him a long, slow kiss.
Minty fresh.
That was nice.
It was nice.
Hey from now on when you change the toilet paper, could you just make sure it is out?
Oh, believe me, we're just getting started, Phil.
 Look at this one of your Mom with me. I mean that woman can't contain her 'Love!
That's exactly the one I picked!
Man, I wish I was them. Phil kisses the back of Clara's neck, but her smile fades as she stares at the picture. He notices.
I just... when I was growing up my Mom and Dad had a picture just like this. Now they can't even acknowledge each other. Phil sympathetically gives her a squeeze.
Let's always remember to have some time that's just for the two of us. No matter what else comes up in our lives - if it's work or friends or when we have kids-
We're having kids? With an "S"?
Yeah, we'll see if you'll be saying that when I'm long in the tooth.
You'll be even hotter long toothed. Right now to be honest Clara they're a little stumpy.
Oh really? As Phil climbs on top and kisses her, he reaches over and turns off the light. Suddenly, we hear the piles of pictures SLIDE OFF THE BED and hit the ground. Beat.
Phil. Tell me it wasn't the pictures.
wasn't the pictures.
You know how long that took?
We'll fix the picture piles, Clara. We've got all the time in the world. From now on everything's gonna be just about us. Suddenly, a YOUNG VOICE breaks through the darkness.
The Talking Head's "Once in a Lifetime" kicks
Mo-om! It's SEVEN YEARS LATER as Phil and Clara stir .-id groan in bed. Clara has the comforter WRAPPED ALL HER while Phil lies uncovered next to her in his boxers and a T-shirt. Without saying a word, they rise out of each side of their beds and sleepily march in opposite directions across their suburban bedroom- Clara down the hall and Phil to the bathroom.
Mom! Mom! Mom!
I'm coming, Ollie!
Uh Phil?
Yep?
I need to switch. I've got an open house. Phil obviously doesn't want to be bothered right now, but contains it.
Really?
Yeah. Really. As Clara walks quickly past him, Phil claps his hands together.
OK, so I say today we go for the slacker look - cool yet approachable.
Yeah, well Mom says that. Ollie points to a PREPPIE OUTFIT laid out on a chair.
Oh. Well... that's cool too!
Ech. Mine. She re-rolls the toothpaste from the bottom up and starts brushing when she sees the sink - a Jackson Pollock of razor hairs and bits of toothpaste. Disgusted, Clara reaches for the Kleenex box, only to discover it's EMPTY. She tosses the box in the trash and shimmies on the towel to get some toilet paper.
Phil, pen in hand, is focused again on his papers as Ollie, now in the preppie outfit, watches him and waits at the table. Phil finally notices.
What?
Breakfast?
How about... some Captain Crunch? Phil gets an idea and writes zickly.
Captain Crunch?The cereal?
Uh... yeah. Sure. Phil grabs the Captain Crunch cereal box out cupboard and starts toward the table when Clara, dressed in a suit, comes into the room and spots it.
Ah ah ah... what's that Ollie? You had a bowl yesterday.
But Dad already said yeah sure. Clara glances at Phil. said it. I said it
Yeah, sure! You know it's only one bowl
One bowl a day a week. Clara, eyebrows raised, eyes the Captain Crunch already in Phil's hand. Phil shakes the carton at Ollie.
This is not for you today!
Did you get his lunch together?
Oh. Whoops.
Sorry I dropped the ball. It's this Quarterly Report to Mr. Rivers today. You know how he freaks me out with all of his mixed animal metaphors that I don't
 Ollie, do you want a banana?
Did you hear me?
 Uh huh. He freaks you out with his mixed animal metaphors that you don't understand. Banana Ollie?
OK. Have a good day. Phil kisses her on the cheek and Clara absently wipes it off. He looks at her strangely. Noticing, Clara quickly kisses Phil on the cheek.
Sorry. Your mouthy was still ail milky.
Sorry for the milky mouth. He heads out. With a sigh, Clara spots Phil's left his 11 dirty glass on the counter. She cleans it in the sink, then gets the carton out of the fridge to put some milk in her own coffee. A DRIBBLE comes out. Shaking her head, she tosses the carton in the trash.
Well, well! We're up bright and early, aren't we!
Yes we are!  ike you say to me every morning. Reaching the carport, Phil scoots between his car and Clara's. He tries to open his driver's door, but Clara' car is parked TOO CLOSE and the door only opens a few inches. He tries to SQ'L'-Z- IN, but ends up GETTING STUCK halfway.
His name's Juan and he's some kind of Spanish, I think. He knows all these exclusive, underground places downtown. It's so exciting. And in bed...
Too much information, Jane.
With Larry, I lost that. Everything had just become routine, you know? Boring. Jane's words hit Clara close to home. Passing on through the kitchen, Clara notices that the REFRIGERATOR makes a weird, loud buzzing noise.
But now, all of a sudden I'm alive again!
Good for you, Jane. Clara takes out her frustration on the ridge, kicki the side and silencing it.
Good for you.
There's this g---eat restaurant downtown we went to the ot__ar night that you guys would love. _"st amazing view of the city. You guys should check it out on your next date night.
 Yeah, well, maybe. We don't really have those that much anymore.
't have date nights:
, You know, we're pretty tired all the time between work and Ollie. And some of the shows on TV these days are really great. Ah. I see.
I know that's really lame.
So it's Phil?
So why don't you change it? All you have to do is stir things up and have one great, sexy, exciting night again.
I guess. Maybe.
Not maybe. Tonight.
Nah. Tonight's no good.
Why not? Seriously think about it. What's really gonna be more important tonight than that? Clara takes this in. Jane's right.
I'm sorry I'm late. The construction on the highways is insane these days!
Don't worry about it, Phil. It's fine. Catch your breath. George gives Mr. Rivers an ornate, pal-sy handshake, then heads out with the binder, nodding at Phil. Phil nods back warily, then takes out his binder, ready to launch into his report.
Uh, Phil. Listen, before we start... I've been thinking... this next quarter we need to venture into open tundra. Start really ripping the meat.
 Uh. OK. You mean... take the fund in a more high risk direction?
Yeah. That's wha: I - -aid. Sure. OK, fine. I can work up some higher risk options and come back tomorrow.
Oh.
s nothing personal.
I wouldn't put it like that. I Just need our pack leader to be more like... like a momma kangaroo. Ya get me?
Kinda.
The blind baby kangaroo opens its mouth and knows its momma's teat is just always there, ready to suckle. But at the same time, momma kangaroo's still a wild, dangerous creature.
Sorry. Still not totally getting you.
I've had a wife and a family. Three of them. It's hard to stay the fastest cheetah when you need to mind the pack, Phil. George lives in the city, doesn't have a family to worry about. He can rip the meat.
Listen, Mr. Rivers. I don't need to... I was ripping big bloody hunks of meat and eating them like tartare when George was still... in the jungle!
I can't be demoted, Mr. Rivers. I just can't.
Listen, nothing's set. It's just I gotta say that lately your leadership on this has felt a little... well... tame.
Clara talks on her cellphone as she picks up Ollie from school.
So it's OK if we drop him off at 7? Our reservation's at 7:45. She passes another MOTHER desperately searching for a Kleenex for her BOY with snot dripping from his nose.
Mrs. Foster? Clara turns to see Ollie's teacher, the tight buttoned MRS. CARDIGAN, 45, walking toward her in the parking lot.
Oh, that's Ollie's teacher. I'll see you later. Clara hangs up her phone and greets Mrs. Cardigan with a warm smile.
I've been meaning to tell you that you can just call me Clara, Mrs. Cardigan.
I'd prefer Mrs. Foster. Boundaries matter.
Can we speak a moment? Alone?
Sure, sure. Ollie, go to the car. As Ollie does, Clara turns back to Mrs. Cardigan.
Is everything OK?
Well, I'm afraid not. Oliver's been antagonizing the girls in the class a great deal lately. Especially Jenny Diggs.
Really? Oh no. Why do you think that's happening?
I'm going to leave that to you and your nd to figure out. But beyond that, ,i: overall attitude these days is just... sub par. E
His penmanship is sloppy. He lacks motivation and tries to just "get by" o assignments. You know, this is a very competitive school, Mrs. Foster. In my opinion, maybe you should consider whether this is really the right environment for him.
 Uh... wow. OK. Mrs. Cardigan starts away. Clara climbs into the car, watching Mrs. Cardigan.
 Wow. What a bitch.
Did you just call Mrs. Cardigan a bitch?
(remembering Ollie's in the
No.
Yeah you did.
I didn't. I really didn't. Clara quickly pulls out.
Unbelievable!
Hey buddy. Finally moving out? I gotta tell you it's about time.
On a school night? Why?
Tonight? What? No.
Clara? Cl- He stops in the doorway as he spots her. Made up in an evening dress in front of a full length mirror, Clara looks STUNNING as she finishes putting an earring on.
Wow. Wow. Clara tns and smiles.
I thought I could take you out to celebrate you finally getting that report in. A romantic dinner downtown like the old days, and teen...  Ollie's going to stay at Mom's so we have the house all to ourselves. All night.
Wow... It sounds... great.
Great! She turns back and continues getting ready.
It's just... is there any chance we coul take a rain check?
Yeah. Unfortunately I really need to do a bit of work tonight. E
I thought all the cramming was for this report today. Did something go wrong?
Oh. OK. Controlling herself, Clara starts putting her jewelry back in the case.
Listen, I'm sorry...
You don't need to apologize, Phil.
Listen, if I had more warning-
Then something else would have come up. You know it. That's the thing, Phil. We used to do things on the spur of the moment all the time. Even after Ollie was born. Now we never do anything together. They stare at each other, then Phil breaks
Listen... any other night.
OK. Maybe another time. Let me just get out of this and call my Mom then. As Clara heads into the closet, Phil looks after her, feeling terrible. About to leave, he notices that around the room, Clara's SET UP CANDLES in anticipation of their romantic night. He looks down again at the papers in his hand and sucks in, conflicted.
That dress really wasn't playing fair, Clara. With a smile, Clara watches Phil tie his tie.
Well get a move on, girl! She zips her dress back up.
 Hey sweeties.
Ruth.
Nana rented us a special treat tonight before bed, Ollie! The Wizard of Oz!
Wow. Wizard of Oz. Don't you think that's a little scary for a 5 year old?
 No, Phil, I don't.
OK... not so sure about that.
Clara? What do you think?
 Yeah, Clara. What do you think?
I'm sorry, Phil. I just felt like she's doing us a favor tonight.
fine. Fine. oust as they climb into the car, Clara stops.
You know, I should pee before we go.
I'll just wait in the car as you go back E inside to pee. Again.
You gotta almost feel sorry for Mayor Diggs. Tries to widen all the highways to get reelected, but all everyone's going to remember when it's time to vote is all this mess.
You're hot?
Yeah. That's why I turned on the air.
Clara shuts the passenger side vents which causes AIR to GUST out of Phil's vents, into his face. He glances at Clara, oblivious, then reaches over and turns down the air.
You know, Mrs. Cardigan told me today that Ollie's been antagonizing his daughter.
Antagonizing? How does a five year old "antagonize?" I'm sure she wouldn't have mentioned it if it wasn't "the Mayor's daughter."
She also went on that Ollie's penmanship's sloppy and he's not motivated enough.
(trying to make a joke of Got all my best traits, huh? He looks over to see that Clara looks out of the wiF n,, not responding - a response in itself. He sucks in.
I think he's fine.
She actually had the gall to suggest we should think about sending him somewhere else.
Maybe she's right if the school has that kind of attitude. Clara's about to object bit stops herself and takes a breath, playing affection-.-ely with the back of Phil's hair.
You know what? All we ever end up talking about is Ollie or work. Let's just focus on us tonight.
Great. I'm all for tha Beat. They sit in silence in the traffic.
So what are you thinking about?
Right now? Traffic.
Oh. Well, I heard this unbelievable story from Jane today.
Yeah?
She has this old classmate who went into labor with her second child the other day. She's totally healthy and everything's normal with the pregnancy. So she goes into labor and walks into the emergency room, and the second the nurses and attendants see her come in, they go into a panic and start yelling A,LA! ATMiA!
What's AMA?
Advanced Maternal Age!
kid you not!
That's unbelievable!
I know. Beat. Clara looks out the window.
The funny thing is she's my age, actually. Suddenly, Phil's smile fades as he realizes the possible ulterior motive.
Huh.
I thought you were cold.
I was, but then you turned it down and I got hot.
But I turned it down because... you see when you open and close your vents it makes my... never mind. Phil reaches over and turns up the air again. Tapping his fingers on the wheel with a sigh, he gets fed up, suddenly veering the car to the shoulder and speeding toward the exit.
What are you doing?
I'm just gonna take a shortcut.
Phil, please don't. You think they're shortcuts but they always take longer. And we're already-
Clara, please just trust me, OK They zoom ahead for a moment in silence. Frustrated, Clara shuts her vents, once again sending a POWERFUL GUST OF COLD AIR onto Phil's face. Biting his tongue, he just leaves it blowing on him as they drive.
I promise you it wouldn't have been any faster. I promise! OK, Phil. Will you just tell them we're here? I'm gonna go pee.
Now?
What?
Nothing. As Clara hurries off, Phil, shaking his head, makes his way through the crowds to the SUPERMODEL HOSTESS.
Good evening. Welcome to the Signature Room.
Thanks. The name is Foster.
Foster... Oh, I'm sorry. We just had give away your table.
You gave away our table? We're just ten minutes late!
Actually, you're 11 minutes late.
have an eight minute grace period.
You have an eight minute grace period? How did you come up with an eight minute grace period?
So what if someone's 9 minutes late?
We're allowed to give a two minute grace on the grace.
OK. Which adds up to ten minutes! We're 11 minutes late. That's just one minute later than the grace on the grace.
I'm sorry sir, but management specifically said no grace on the grace on the grace. After ten minutes, we send a host around calling your name and if there's no answer, we give the table away. Sorry.
So how long's the wait for another table?
Well, let's see... Phil looks on as the Supermodel Hostess runs her finger down a LONG LIST OF WRITE-IN NAMES. As she turns to the next page...
Oh boy.
It's OK. The Nervous Woman quickly leaves the bathroom with the Man. Clara looks after them a second, then washes her hands.
How lc= -until they seat us?
Two hours. They gave away our reservation. Peanut?
What?!? Did you tell them that we hit traffic?
They wouldn't care, Clara. If they call your name at the bar and you don't answer, they give your table away. So how about a nut? A YOUNG HOST  mills around the bar.
Clara sighs, frustrated.
I mean, did you try something like telling her it was our anniversary, or my birthday, or slipping her some money-
Oh, I see. Lying and graft were the answer! Clara shakes her head, then notices the YOUNG HOST searching for the party and starts focusing on him instead of Phil as she thinks.
I'm sure if you had been there instead of peeing again you would have done it better.
You're not even listening to me, are you?
 Yeah I am. You're sure if I had been there instead of peeing again I would have done it better.
Sorry! We're right here!
Wait. What are you doing?
Shhh! The Young Host approaches.
Gale party of three?
The third's running a little going to start without them.
eat. Follow me. Phil shoots Clara a look, but she ignores it. He falls into line after her as she follows the Young Host to th restaurant.
 Enjoy your dinner. The Young, Host leaves.
See? Was that so hard to do, Phil? bad to be the Gales, eh? Clara opens her menu as looks nervously around the restaurant.
Look Phil! It's white truffle season! I'm totally doing it!
We can't do this, Clara.
I'm taking you out.
Not the truffles.
We're not the Gales.
So? You said yourself - if you don't answer at the bar they give your table away.
Well, what if they show up now?
I'm serious!
What?
It's just... I don't know. You used to be the one who would think up stuff like this all the time. This hits Phil. He takes in his wife reading the menu for a beat.
You know what? You're absolutely right. Clara lowers her menu and they look at each other for what feels like the first time tonight.
I'm sorry, Mrs. Gale.
You're not looking too shabby yours Mrs. Gale.
Mr. Gale? They turn, surprised, to see TWO BURLY MEN in suits at their table. The Older of the two politely speaks to them.
What's this about?
Why can't we talk here? u
Can I help you? OLDER s _ 'LY MAN Nah. We're fine Walking to the rear service elevator, the Older Burly Man pushes the down button. The elevator opens.
Whoa. Wait a minute. Where are we going?
Hey! Jesus! The elevator doors shut and the older Burly Man pushes the G Floor then nods to his partner. They reach in their pockets.
Listen, this is all getting out of hand, OK? I admit we maybe did something a teeny bit wrong, but- Suddenly, they grab Phil and Clara, putting HANDKERCHIEFS over their noses and mouths. Phil and Clara veil and struggle for a moment, then PASS OUT.
Whoa. What the hell is this? Tied in the chair next to him, Clara jumps as the Older Burly Man waves the stick under her nose.
I don't know. A VOICE speaks from a speakerphone on the table
The chloroform may make you feel dizzy for a few moments, but it will go away.
Listen... you can just have all our money, OK? Whatever's there, it's yours. We're not looking to cause problems or put up any kind fight. We'll just walk away and not report anything, OK? All we want is for you to let us go unharmed.
We need to discuss your little stunt tonight first, Mr. and Mrs. "Gale." Or should we say... what is it Harry? HARRY, the Younger Burly Man reads Phil and Clara's IDs, which he's grabbed off of them.
Phil and Clara Foster.
else would it be about, Mr. Foster
You think this is a joke? Phil looks at the faces of the two thugs. No one's joking.
Yes. Well, I'm a little upset as well, Mr. Foster. And confused. It would help me to know why a couple like the two of you would try to pull something like this.
You must be kidding! Like a million people don't do it every single night of the week! This is unbelievable! I'm just in shock here! Harry and Frank look at each other, puzzled.
I enjoy your humor, Mr. Foster. Now why don't you start by telling me how you got into the Rainbow to set it uD-
"Into the Rainbow?" What the hell's that? Restaurant code?
-and then you can tell me where the photos are that you arranged to bring tonight.
Photos? Clara figures out what's happened.
Wait a minute. I think there's been a really big mistake here. We're not the Gales.
know you're not the Gales.
They know we're not the Gales. Don't you get it!
No, Phil. I think they think we're actually "the Gales" who made the reservation tonight.
Then why were you two at the Gales' table, Mr. Foster?
OK, listen, what happened is we lost our reservation and when the host came around yelling the Gales' name and no one answered, my wife said that we were them. I swear on my life to you that's what happened.
You're saying you just took someone else's reservation you didn't know? That's what you want me to believe?
I know that seems really weird. Listen, I agree, that's what I said to her.
One problem with your story. When I came over to the table - and you guys were all alone - you were still calling each other Gale.
That was just... we were... no, you don't understand...
We'll need to move things along, Frank. With a nod, Frank reaches into his pockets, slowly taking out a GUN and a handful of BULLETS. He loads the gun as Phil and Clara watch.
Wait a minute. What's going on?
I don't t don't like this. Clicking the loaded gun, Frank and Harry both come toward Phil and Clara.
If in ten seconds you don't tell us where the photos are, you lose a knee, Mr. Foster. Ten more seconds, you lose another. Then we go to your wife.
Please! You can't do this! We're not lying!
One... two... three... four... Frank clicks the loaded gun at Phil's knee.
Oh Jesus. Don't do it!
Five... six... seven... eight...
Jesus!
But we can't just tell you where they are. We have to take you to them.
You drive with her in front.
Quiet!
I said quiet! They continue walking toward the Iowncar, Phil thin ing hard. Suddenly, his expression changes and he star s weaving dizzily, putting his hand to his forehead.
Phil? He drops to the ground.
Whoa.
Phil? What is it?
I'm... not feeling so great...
's wrong with him?
I don't know.
You're not hypoglycemic. Phil shoots Clara a quick LOOK OF
I just can't... go any further. Harry and Frank look at each other, not sure what to do.
Should we call Mr. Stockton?
Don't say his name, you idiot!
Sorry! I was just-
We'll just throw him in the back and have her show us. hey move over to pick up Phil. Clara thinks fast.
Wait! In my purse there's a Luna Bar. If you give it to me I can find it for him. With a sigh, Frank hands Clara her purse. She rummages inside... and quickly WHIPS OUT her MINI 409 SPRAY, spritzing Frank right in the eyes. With a shriek, he falls back grabbing his face and dropping his gun. Clara makes a dash and grabs it. As Frank blindly lunges after her, she KNEES HIM IN THE BALLS. He collapses on the ground, whimpering in pain. She spins and points the gun at Harry.
Drop the gun and the keys.
oa! Clara! No Harry drops them, raising his hands. Phil gets up and grabs the gun and keys, then awkwardly hits Harry as hard as he can on the back of the neck with the butt of the gun. Harry looks at him, confused.
Ow! Why, man?
Sorry. i was trying to knock you out.
Why,
ought that's what you do when-
Phil! Just c'mon!
Sorry. Befuddled, Phil meets Clara at the car and they climb in and speed away.
OK, let me just start from the very beginning...
We got to the restaurant late because we hit all this traffic on the highway-
the shortcut.
What?
I just think we might have made it on time if we stayed on the highway. Your shortcuts end up being long cuts most o the time.
You can tell him.
Because you always interrupt me when I try to tell stories, and every time you do it disrupts my flow.
Fine, you tell it. I won't say another word.
Fine.
Yeah. Even using my shortcut which, by the way, was a shortcut - and they gave away our reservation. So we were at the bar and the host was calling out for these other people over and over-
Which is what they do right before they cancel a reservation anyway.
I thought you said you weren't going to interrupt me, Clara.
Across the table, the Young Police officer, eyebrows raised, watches Phil and Clara volley back and forth.
Do you think he really cares, Clara? were just kidnapped, CHLOROFORMED and almost shot! I don't think he's going turn around and book us for reservation theft! Am I right?
So all of a sudden Clara yells out that we're these other people.
Yeah. I know! Even the guy on the speakerphone couldn't believe it!
You two kinda bonded over that, didn't you?
We didn't "bond" over it. I'm just saying, speakerphone guy obviously thought it was weird to do.
Guys? You're new "buddy."
Oh c'mon! And we found out speakerphone guy's name, Phil. It's Mr. Stockton. The Young Policeman looks up, interested.
Mr. Stockton? Hold on a minute. The Officer dials an extension on the phone.
Lieutecant Manning? eeird story. Havea couple '.n here who claim --o have escaped a kid- 7-ng this evening and the name Stockt came up. OK. Will do. He hangs up.
Lieutenant Manning likes to be notified ere's anything involving Mr. n.
Wait. So you already know about this guy? You know who he is? A knock at the door and a handsome man in his late 40's, LIEUTENANT MANNING, enters the room with a smile. He reaches over and shakes their hands.
How do you do. Lieutenant Manning. The Officer offers him his note pad.
That sounds more like
So why don't you tell me all about your incident with Mr. Stockton.
You tell it, Clara.
Oh, don't be like that, Phil. Please.
Guys... you've obviously been through something traumatic tonight. Thankfully it's over and you're both safe and sound. Maybe you should cut each other a little bit more of a break. Phil and Clara look at each other, each letting out air. Manning's right.
Seriously, Clara. You tell him.
Well, we never a. t_::ally "met" Stockton.
He was in another room on a speakerphone where these guys who kidnapped us took us. But he was obviously the one pulling the strings.
Who is this Stockton guy anyway?
Honestly, you wouldn't believe this, but it's because we sat down at the wrong table tonight for dinner.
(looks up, interest Really? The wrong table?
We pretended to be someone else who didn't show up for their reservations. My idea. And it turned out that these people must have something this Mr. Stockton wants.
Do you know what?
That's all you know? Phil and Clara look at each other. Nod.
How were you so sure the Gales weren going to show up if you don't know the at all? Clara looks down at the table, furrowing her brow.
Clara?
Sorry. I... I lost my train of thought.
Well, I can pick things up then. Phil notices Clara giving him a LOOK.
What? Why are you looking at me like that?
 I'm not looking at you like anything. doesn't pick up on it. Shrugs.
OK, well, I had the same question for her when we sat down, which she thought was
Rubbing her forehead, Clara KICKS Phil's leg HARD under the table.
OW! Jesus! Clara stink-eyes Phil AGAIN, trying to get the message across.
And there's that look again!
look! No. Looking. At all. RINGING. Lieutenant Manning reaches into his jacket pocket and checks the number on the cellphone. He hops up.
Can you excuse me a moment?
OK, I'm not dense, Clara. That was not an accident and if those weren't looks-
Phil, we're in trou
What are you talking about?
He's in on this. He's got something to do with it.
The police guy? Clara, that's tota
never told him about the Gale
What do you mean?
He said, "How did you know the Gales weren't coming." I never told him that was the name of the reservation we
be I said it to the other
He didn't take the other notes, Phil. Remember? s hil as well.
Oh God.
How do we get out of here?
Uh huh. I know you don't. It will be contained. Right now. Hanging up the phone, Manning walks quickly back through the police station to the interview room. He stops in the doorway... .it's EMPTY. Confused, he turns to an OFFICER outside at the desk.
They said you were done with them. Manning walks quickly back to his office. Sitting behind his desk, Manning enters a password on his computer and starts typing out an ALL POINTS BULLETIN. We are CLOSE UP on the computer screen as the words come
We can't just go to another police station, Phil! We don't know how big this is! It might not just be Manning!
Well then we're screwed! Who do we go to? The FBI? The CIA?
You've got it, Clara. Spin it back now!
just let me do it, She spins too late and too severely, hitting the curb.
Dammit! I hate this!
It's all right. You just should have spun it when I told you to. Flustered, she pulls back out and tries again.
rn! Quick!
Would you stop it? You're stressing me out! Angry, Clara whips the car back into the spot, NAILING the car behind them and setting off a loud CAR ALARM WITH
Hey! You just hit my The Large Man stomps toward them.
Run! Phil and Clara get out of the car and run away on The Large Man marches over and inspects his bumpe yells after them.
Ollie. Phil takes out his cellphone and quickly dials, listening as Ruth PICKS UP.
Hello? Suddenly, GUNSHOTS RING OUT over the phone.
Oh God! Ruth! Is everything OK?
No it's not, Phil!
What's wrong?
It's CSI night! Call after 11! Ruth hangs up the phone, shaking her head, and takes another mouthful of Fiddle Fiddle.
What's wrong?
What? Just call her again and tell her what's happened! Phil dials the number again. Ruth picks up.
Ruth, I need you to listen. We've
We sure do Phil! We sure do! Ruth slams the phone down and pulls out the phone cord so she won't be bothered again.
Great, Phil. Now she's not picking up at all!
You think this is my fault, don't you? T - ft
You know, your Mom shows me no respect, 0 Clara. And you just pretend like it isn't happening.
So you think it's j1y fault. Listen, Phil. Every single other boyfriend I ever dated got along with her just-
What? Clara starts looking through her purse for her phone.
Holbrooke Peterson does something hush hush with the FBI! I think he even lives down here.
Holbrooke Peterson? You mean the tongue guy?
What?
Holbrooke was your prom date who you said had the really long tongue, right?
Uh, yeah... something like that... She finds her phone and dials.
Since when have you been in touch with Holbrooke Peterson?
Facebook? I didn't know you were on Facebook!
It's a networking thing for work. Everyone's on Facebook.
0 yeah? Who else are you "in touch" h on Facebook?
Hello? Holbrooke? Thank God you're there. It's Clara Foster...
Wow! Clara! You look exactly the same
So do you! He gives her a big, tight hug, lifting her a little.
You feel exactly the same too. Phil double-takes. Did he hear him right?
This is my husband, Phil.
Ah! The man who actually landed Clara. Holbrooke gives Phil the up and down with a winning smile and holds out his hand.
Philly Cheese Steak. Nice to meet you.
Um... yeah... I don't go by... it's 1 - usL Phil. Nice to meet you, too.
Well, c'mon in. If you don't mind, take off your shoes.
Oh.Sure.
Cutsdown on the cleaning. Which cuts downon the use of all those chemicals andplastics, blab blah blah. Reduces my
Carbon footprint.
Oh. The environmental thing.
How beautiful. Or, the candles... Did we
Oh, no. I jus-_. --'-D.> myself off the gr a few weeks ago.
The grid?
Power grid. I actually have a negative carbon footprint now. Making up for, you know, all you "Phil"-i-stines in the suburbs. Holbrooke chuckles. Phil's about to say something when a look from Clara reminds him to bite his lip. Holbrooke gestures to some cardboard furniture.
So have a seat. Holbrooke starts to sit down himself, then makes a show of taking a LARGE GUN out of his shoulder holster and putting it on the table.
Whoa. You carry that around at home?
Yeah. I'm supposed to sleep with her under my pillow.
It's so funny. I always knew you'd end up doing something in public service.
Yeah, unfortunately, Terrence Stockton is not a man you want to get on the wrong side of.
He's like a Nicaraguan turtle - keeps his head deep in his shell unless he absolutely has to stick it out. Those photos must be really important to him.
More jicama, Clara? And sure no Margari-La to calm your nerves?
No thanks, I'm Holbrooke picks up the plate and Margarita glass, then crosses to his INDOOR COMPOSTER, adding the extra liquid and scraps.
What does Stockton do?
Officially, he runs a bunch of these exclusive private clubs downtown where his high powered friends go to let their hair down. Has one place called Le Passage, another called The Rainbow-
e Rainbow! Stockton asked how we there to set things up!
The th need to do now is keep you two safe. I'm going to call the office, put you under some protection until we figure out the best game
Should we be worried about our s
 Wouldn't be Stockton's pattern to risk ing this any larger than it is. Where is he?
I s staying at my m
And she of you. As it comes out of her mouth, Clara realizes and guiltily looks over at Phil BRISTLING. Holbrooke goes to a pile of already used sheets of paper and picks one up along with a pen.
I'll just need your full names and your socials so I can get the paperwork started at the bureau. Not yours, Clara. Know that by heart. Both Phil and Clara are taken aback.
Uh... there's already writing all over this.
Does another tree really need to die for me to get your socials, Phil? Phil bites his tongue yet again, squeezing the writing into a side of the paper.
So just one kid, guys? What's keeping you? Clocks ticking Clara - tickety tock tuck.
It's just that by now, you and I woulda had a whole brood.
 That's... charming. Phil scoots the paper back to Holbrooke, who squints and dramatically turns it sideways.
w! Paging Dr. Illegible, egible to Emergency! Holbrooke and Clara burst into laughter. Phil
L.O.L,, right? (thinking he doesn't
It's because you're writing's hard to read, Phil, and everyone knows how when doctors write things down-
No. Yeah. I get it. Holbrook. makes a big show of putting his gun back holster as he gets up.
We'll have you stay at the bureau for the night. Safer for you.
Thank you so much, Holbrooke.  I feel like we're in good hands for the E first time tonight. As Holbrooke goes into the other room to call, Clara lets out a sigh of relief then notices Phil's mood.
What's wrong?
I don't know. Maybe I should have had one of Holbrooke's eeegerag warn raaaarrrrghereeeeetas.
smells like french fries back here,
Car runs on cooking oil. I just go around to restaurants and recycle their old fry oil.
Phil's really had enough with this guy. Your goodness... where does it end? Clara shoots Phil a look he back, but Holbrooke doesn't get his sarcasm.
Positions.
Continue slowly down the hallway. sudden movements. Are they armed, Peterson?
Uh,
What the hell's going o
I don't know.
Well, tell them to stand down.
Uh.. .
Tell your men to stand down, Holbrooke.
His men? The Agents look at each other and chuckle.
What do you want us to do, Holbrooke? Reformat our hard drives?
Our badass I.T. guy! The laughter builds.
I. I. guy?
OK... I'm not the "I.T. guy." I help out
Alright, enough. Point is, Agent Peterson scored tonight. When I typed in those socials, an APB shot up with a whole laundry list on these guys.
What?
crooked cop did it! It's a lie!
It's your booking, Peterson. We're Just here to back you up. Holbrooke... Holbrooke looks nervously between the Agents and Phil and Clara. He turns to them, taking Clara's arm.
Listen guys. I'll just book you and then tomorrow we can straighten the whole-
 What? Oh no you're not! Oooohs from the Agents.
You just gonna take that, Peterson?
All right! Nobody move or he gets it! Clara's STUNNED. The Agents look at each other, but don't seem overly concerned.
Holbrooke has a gun? Why does he even have a gun?
You think it's even loaded?
I don't.
I'm not screwing around!
He's not screwing around! He's not screwing around! Pulling a terrified Holbrooke, Phil and Clara back toward the rear exit of the building. They try the door, but it's locked.
Keycard.
What?
Thanks. He and I, the communication isn't great... Getting the keychain from Holbrooke, Phil uses the keycard then lets it fall to the floor as the door unlocks and they back outside.
Seriously, Phil. I'm a bad shield. I promise.
Wow, Phil! Phil feels a little pumped up with Clara's praise.
Just give me your car keys, Holbrooke. When we're about to drive off we'll let you go.
Uh, they were on the keychain.
What? HOLB'?n`_ The key chain you dre-,~_d with the keycard inside. The keys were on that. And so the hero falls...
Shit.
we'll never outrun them.
YOW! Man is that loud! As the Agents run toward the door, Clara quickly grabs the gun from Phil and shoots, nailing the lock.
 How are you so good at that? The Agents try the door, but are LOCKED IN. Agent #1 tells his men to stand back and tries shooting the glass, but it's BULLETPROOF. He gestures and all the Agents rush around to the front.
gotta get going! Quick!
Where? They both look around, unsure.
Across the bridge a few blocks down that street there's an entrance to the Green Line subway. Get on it and you can get anywhere in this city. Phil and Clara look at him, confused.
Aren't you supposed to be our hostage?
It wasn't so much of a drop. it was more of a... bobble.
Yeah, a bobble's bad...
Listen, if you just leave me here I can tell them you ran the other way. It'll buy you time to get there. And maybe I can work on clearing all this up for you. Phil and Clara look at each other, then start to run away. Suddenly Phil stops, thinking.
What?
Let me have the gun. As Clara gives it to him, Phil quickly runs back and hands it to Holbrooke
Here. Tell them you got it back from us. Holbrooke takes back his aun, grateful.
Thanks, Phil. As Phil runs back, Clara takes in the nice gesture of husband.
it's just on the other side of that bridge. I think we're going to make it. He notices Clara looking at him.
What?
Nothing. That was just nice of you, back there.
Bourne identity?
I'm talking about right now. When we used to walk home late at night after going downtown to the clubs. We couldn't ever find a cab, remember? We'd grab those "healthy" dogs and cheese fries at the Weiner's Circle and go to the Adler Planetarium to watch the sunrise.
Where I held your hand for the first time.
I can't believe we used to stay up all night like that.
It's because we could sleep 'til noon.
I just don't understand when we got so... I don't know...
Old.
No, I was thinking numb. When did we become one of those couples that we used to look at in restaurants back then and think were so sad?
We're not that bad, Phil. I just think we haven't been that honest with each other recently. Phil doesn't understa
Not big things. Just little things keep adding up and putting this thing between us.
It's not that I don't want another kid, Clara. It's just... I used to be the whole pie with you. And now with Ollie and your work, I'm barely even a piece of the pie anymore. I'm, like, maybe a pecan on a piece of the pie! So part of me's not jumping at the chance of having the little pecan I have left of your attention going into some new baby's mouth!
But that's crazy, Phil. When you're home you're the one who seems like your hardly even there! It's all about your work. Believe me, if you- Clara suddenly notices a POLICE CAR, lights off, drive past them over the bridge.
Shit!
I think we're OK. Just play cool and keep walking. The patrol car continues across and down the street. 11 Phil and Clara breathe a sigh of relief. Then suddenly, a few blocks down, BRAKE LIGHTS. The patrol car turns around and TURNS ON ITS LIGHTS, zooming back toward them.
Now you can say shit. Phil looks around - they're in the middle of the bridge with no place to run. Then he notices the lit up PARTY BOAT coming out the other side of the bridge beneath them.
e 's only a few feet.
What u high? No way. But looking main at the patrol car speeding toward them, Phil grabs Clara and dashes for the side of the bridge.
Ahhh! Are you CRAZY!?!
Let go, Clara!
A GROUP of DRUNKEN PARTIERS on the boat, spotting them, cheer below. Some even take FLASH PICTURES. Phil looks down - if they don't let go soon they're literally going to miss the boat.
go or I'm going to tickle you!
Ow! I think I broke my butt.
OW! OW! Dammit, Phil! What's our rule about tickling?
I'm sorry! I didn't do it for pleasure! What is our rule?
Right! And guess what? It wasn't funny for me, Phil! Clara gets up and storms off, clutching her arm. Walking down the side of the boat, she passes a MAN down on one knee in front of an EXCITED WOMAN, who nods, accepting his proposal.
T ' s your elbow?
Well, for jumping off a bridge onto a moving boat, not so bad.
You know, we're kind of running ou ons.
Maybe we could just hide or something until this all blows over.
What makes you think it ever wil
iaybe we should just turn ourselves
Wait. What if we found the pictures?
What do you mean?
These pictures that everyone's after. we could get them we'd have some kind o bargaining chip to get out of this.
But then we'd have to find the Gales. don't know anything about them.
Yeah, but even so, Holbrooke said these clubs are so secret you have to know where they are and how to get in- Clara rummages through her purse and grabs her phone, dialing, then notices Phil looking out, shaking his head.
What?
You're not listening to me again!
"You have to know where they are and h to get in-"
That's great. Clara wanna cracker?
I'm calling because of what you said, Phil. I know who can help us. Clara dials the number.
Hey Jane, it's Clara.
ara... Clara turns and looks.
Oh shoot. You know what Jane? I've actually gotta jump off right now.
Check again. Manning pockets the camera and starts to walk away.
Hey! That's mine, man!
Evidence. The Partier mumbles "Asshole" as he stumbles Manning si i.s and looks out over the wa
Mine's totally shot too.
You got the info from her though, right?
Yeah, but we can't get in looking like this, Phil.
I don't think we have a choice. Not a big shopping hour. They walk past the 24 CHICAGO FITNESS CENTER, lights blazing. Windows show machines filled with young HARDBODIES working out.
Now if we wanted to do a little cardio, on the other hand. Who knew that many people worked out at 1 in the morning? Clara thinks a moment, then stops in her tracks and looks back up at the building.
You wanna do a little cardio? Clara smirks at him, then Phil, thinking, gets it. He shakes his head.
OK, now that's scary. You know you're starting to think like a real criminal? You know that, don't you? Clara waggles her eyebrows. We hear Devo's "Secret Agent Man" over a TrC _ GE .
- The Attractive Thin Woman comes back to her locker and opens it. Her face drops. Inside hang CL A"S DRIPPING
- OUTSIDE THE GYM, Phil, looking slick in a colored shirt and black suit, walks quickly around the corner, then stops, stunned. Clara, waiting for him with her hair blown out and in a tight fitting RED FLAPPER DRESS with RED HEELS, looks AMAZING. From her expression, she feels the same about Phil.
Down here?
It's what she said.
And if you die, does Jane get your commissic-l on the open house? Up ahead, a TWO S:_=:Y LOOKING CHARACTERS huddle near a bunch of GARBAGE CANS watching them, a SMALL FIRE nearby. Nervously, Clara approaches.
Excuse me? Men shoot her a fierce look.
Um... do you know which is the way back to Kansas? They eye her, then inspect Phil up and down. One of them LUNGES, and Phil jumps back... but he's moving aside some trash cans, revealing a RAINBOW COLORED STAIRWAY going down.
If you wanner be pissed at anyone about it, be pissed at Stockton... Hearing the name, Phil spots a BALDING MAN talking to 2 other MEN at one of the tables. He lingers closer.
You know, rumor is he's behind the whole mess. Raking it in on both ends. What do you mean?
Hush hush shell companies he owns. One of them hires all the construction inspectors. Another he's got rents all the construction equipment. The more one slows things down with violations, more the other takes to the bank.
My guess is he's trying to screw up Mayor Diggs' reelection. Imagine what someone like him could do if he got someone less "squeaky clean" in the Mansion. The Balding Man suddenly notices Phil listening. Phil pastes on an excited face.
you! Gale, right?
What?
Sorry. From the side... confused you with somebody else. Phil quickly moves on.
really get s,-.y names.
Thanks any-way. With a sigh, Clara starts away from the bar, when she
ough the crowd, FRANK and HARRY walk right toward her - but they haven't seen her yet. Clara spots the KITCHEN DOORS nearby and rushes through. Clara peeks out through the double door windows. Frank and Harry continue through the crowd, unaware.
Watch it! Clara quickly hugs a large bulletin board covered with pictures and time schedules as a WAITER carries a large tray of food past her.
Clara pulls the picture off the wall. She catches a WAITRESS coming back through the double doors.
Excuse me. Does she work here?
Dora? I guess she still does. Hasn't been showing up lately, though.
Do you know where I can find her?
You could try back tomorrow, see if she-
Did you try Ray's place?
Ray?
That sleazebag boyfriend of hers. He's got that place a few blocks from here where he used to throw those after work parties.
Do you remember where it is?
Phil! Hearing his name, Phil nervously turns. MR. RIVERS and GEORGE stand together in a corner.
This is a surprise! What are you doing down here?
Uh... well, same thing as you guys, I would guess. Working those "extra hours," right?
Phil! Clara, looking amazing in her red flapper dress, weeds through the crowd. Mr. Rivers and George take her in, obviously impressed.
Phil, we gotta go. I found out where-
Clara, you remember Mr. Rivers? Clara suddenly notices Phil's boss. Oh. Oh. Yeah.
And I'm George.
Sorry, but I've got to steal him. We've gotta be somewhere else right now.
At 2 in the morning? Where are you guys headed?
Phil Foster with places to go he can talk about at 2 in the morning.
You know what makes kangaroos so damn dangerous, George? They look so sweet and tame, so you forget they're wild animals. Lethal when they want to be. George, not fully understanding, chuckles and holds out his hand for another handshake, but Mr. Rivers, still watching Phil, LEAVES HIM HANGING.
See where they take you.
That never really- OPENS. She shoots Phil a look.
OK. Never mind. Phil and Clara inch insi
are you bent over like that?
sneaking.
Rut why don't you just walk normally and quietly?
This is the wav I sneak. You sneak in your way and I'll sneak in mine, OK?
Talk! Who are you?
You know, that's like the 5th gun I've had to my head tonight! Just lower that thing and cool it, OK? Off guard from Phil's reaction, Ray, confused, does.
She was in the bathroom at the restaurant!
Who are you?
Who are we? Good question! Well, everybody thinks we're "the Gales" because we were lucky enough to take your reservation tonight!
Don't.
Both of you. Stand ov there in the corner. Dammit Dora, ere's your goddamn brother? He was E,.--,-Dc.-zed to b here an hour ago! I don't know, Ra_, He's not answering his phone.
Yeah, well, if these guys found u long do you think it's gonna take other guys? We're dead! DEAD!
Excuse me. In the corner, Clara raises her hand. Ray eyes her strangely.
Sorry. I have to pee.
That's my wife. Flustered, Ray waves Dora to take Clara.
You must just think I'm awful.
I don't think anything about you. I just want this to be over.
Ray saw Mr. Stockton making all this money blackmailing people at the club. When he found out who was interested in me... he said it would be so easy. We'd never have to work again.
We're coming!
Listen, it looks like things didn't turn out the way you planned, but I think all Stockton wants is his pictures back. As soon as he gets them I bet-
Stockton's pictures? You.think they're Stockton's pictures?
I'm OK! I'm OK! Ray spots Phil crawling away and gets up, turning to him.
Hey! Get- Suddenly, Ray is SHOT IN THE ARM through the window. He drops to the ground in pain, yelling and clutching his arm.
Ahh!
Oh God! Are you hit?
No... just... a little ... winded... that... crawling's... tough... on the core...
How about you guys let me in before someone gets really hurt?
Dammit! Frank eyes Dora, then SHOOTS HER IN THE FOOT, sending screaming to the ground in pain.
You stay put. He hurries back through the house.
Hey? Which is 357 Maple Street?
You're Dora's brother?
Who are you?
You're late!
OK sorry! The roads are all screwed with all this construction- BOOM! They wince as a SHOT hits the rearview mirror of the car. All three spin to see Frank aiming his gun and marching toward them, Harry right behind him.
Hey! Phil quickly pushes Dora's brother aside as he and Clara hop into the Buick and PEEL OUT.
Phil! Careful! Phil WHIPS the car around another bend.
Please, Phil! It's not going to do any good if you-
 Clara! Please! Just leave the driving to me, OK?!? I know what I'm- SMASH! - they HIT something head-on, SHATTERING the windshield. Shaking glass off himself, Phil peers forward. They're face to face - nose to nose - with another broken windshield. In the driver's seat of a SOUPED UP HONDA h fiber-optic colored lights, a YOUNG BLACK DUDE stares at them in shock.
No no no. Tell me you did not just do that.
Shit! The Black Dude gets out of his car to inspect, head in hands.
Oh, man! You did not just do that! Whew, you gonna be payin' for this!
owe you one. Phil throws the car into reverse, but his tires just screech smoke, the wheels spinning in place. Looking out his window toward the front, Phil sees that
Oh no no no. You're gonna get outta this car and hand me over a license and some insurance. We gonna do this right. Man, I think I got whiplash and shit. A SCREECH. Phil looks back to see FRANK AND HARRY'S TOTnNCAR coming around the corner.
Shit. Thinking fast, Phil jumps out of his car and hops into the Black Dude's souped up Honda.
Hey! HEY! What do you think you're doing? The Black Dude chases after him, trying the driver's door, but Phil's LOCKED it. Phil yells to Clara.
What? That's insane!
The Black Dude, hanging onto the driver's door, SCREAMS as he's THROWN ONTO THE HOOD. The conjoined cars SHIMMY SHAMMY BACKWARD, just in time to dodge the Towncar. The Black Dude scrambles for his life through the windshield into the passenger's seat next to Phil.
Huh?
Phil, this is-
EMPTY_LINE
Looking over his shoulder, Phil tries to steer their conjoined cars down the middle of the street, but he and Clara are out of sync and their attached cars veer :ildly back and forth. They hit the curb at an angle and -JcK DOWN a whole row of mail boxes until Phil spins h--'-s v;:-reel, getting them back into the street.
Just let me out, OK? You can have it! 11 You can have it!
I'm not yelling! I'm just talking in an very animated voice! Looking back over his shoulder again, Phil sees they're approaching the lar ge intersection with Michigan Avenue.
OK, now when I say so, spin your wheel!
On his command, Clara spins her wheel sharply to t1- right., but it's the wrong way and their cars JACK across the road. An ONCOMING SUV honks desperately.
Ahhhh! Other way! Other way!
What? You just said spin the wheel, Phil! You didn't say which way.
Yes I did!
No you didn't!
She's right! You di
Aw man!
Why stay on Michigan?
Why stay on Michigan? Because it's a wider street.
It's also a busier street! I think it would be better to try to branch off.
She does this wherever we go! Every time! Phil doesn't notice the LIGHTS GROWING BRIGHTER behind him..
LOUD HONNNNNNNKKKKKK. Phil and the Black Dude look over their shoulders to see they're heading straight for a
Phil SPINS the wheel sharply and they go SIDEWAYS, jumping the curb and soaring into MILLENNIUM PARK. In their car following them, Frank and Harry's -mouths drop.
Clara! Reverse it, keep it straight put your foot to the floor. Give it everything! Clara reverses and Phil puts the car in drive and floors it. The car goes faster... faster...
Oooh. I really woulc_n.'t be doing that.
Doing what? What are you doing?!? Clara glances over her shoulder. Their heading strai toward a CONCRETE STAIRWAY.
Oh God.
Just trust me! The conjoined cars HIT the steps and their wheels SMOKE as the TWO ENGINES POWER TOGETHER ALL THE WAY UP THE
The Towncar tries the follow them, but its single engine doesn't have enough power. Swearing under his breath, Frank reverses back down the steps.
Ha HA! That last move was wicked, man. Wicked. They try to give each other a fancy handshake, but Phil, the WHITEST MAN EVER, muddles it up.
Sorry.
s cool.
Jesus! What the hell are you guys in trouble for?
Can we just try to work together at this?
I'm not blaming you. Please? Clara nods.
Now whatever direction I give you, take your normal version of it and tone it down like 85 percent, OK?
35 percent. Fine.
OK. Small left. Now!
Yes!
Now we're cooking with fire! Now tiny le
Yes!  No.
Oh no.
What? Clara turns around to look. LIGHTS FLASH as a BARRIER comes down across the road - A DRAWBRIDGE ahead is slowly rising. Phil looks behind - the Towncar's got them closed in. The Black Dude peeks back as well, then turns to Phil.
say we can pop you guys up and over.
Excuse me? What are you talking about, "pop you guys up and over?"
You climb over, then we both reverse it and leadfoot the motherfuckers. Send you flying over the top.
What? Sucking in a breath, Phil hands control of the car back to the Black Dude. As the conjoined cars zoom toward the drawbridge, Phil CRAWLS ON THE ATTACHED HOODS FROM ONE WINDSHIELD TO THE OTHER, sitting next to Clara.
Phil, don't even think of it.
can do it. Clara.
No, Phil. We can't! It's suicide!
Here we go now... One... two... THREE!
The two cars SMOKE as their wheels spin in opposite directions, then DISLODGE. Phil and Clara's car flies reverse UP ONE SIDE OF THE DIAGONAL DRAWBRIDGE... .and LANDS SPINNING IN A FLURRY OF SPARKS OVER ON THE OTHER SIDE, causing AIR BAGS to deploy all around Phil and Clara. The Black Dude spins his steering wheel, jack-knifing his Honda across the road, and PUTS ON HIS SEAT BELT. Frank and Harry's eyes go wide as Frank jams on his brakes, but the Towncar CRASHES right into the Honda. ugh his broken window, the Black Dude grins at Frank and Harry.
Hope you all got insurance. Hitting a button, he starts a FIBER-OPTIC LIGHT SHOW on his Honda.
I want to make sure that at least one our son's parents survives tonight!
What?
You almost just got us killed!
I see. I almost got us killed. Forget about the people chasing and shooting at us all night long because of the reservation you stole.
There's a difference between fleeing from people shooting at you and knowingly driving a car in reverse over an open drawbridge!
Unbelievable! You know, all you complain about is that I don't take risks anymore. Then the second I do, you get mad at me for doing it! I can't win with you!
Poor Phil! You have i so bad, don't you!
Oh, you have no idea! Every single day from the moment we wake up you're bossy, disapproving, inconsiderate-
I'm inconsiderate? I'M INCONSIDERATE?!? Have you ever seen our bathroom in the morning after Tsunami Phil's blown through? The floor! The sink! You use my toothbrush.
What's the difference? Afraid you're gonna get my cooties?
I want my own toothbrush, Phil! Sue me! And how many years have I asked you to do a simple thing like put the toilet paper in right?
Listen to yourself! You have problems with how I pqt in the toilet paper!
After ten years of asking you to have roll the right way, you still can't do it!
Yeah, how about the fact that I have not woken up with our comforter over me once in those 10 nears! You steal the whole thing away from me every night and mummify yourself.
What? Phil, I do not "steal" the comforter. It just happens when we're-
 Bulls Bull-shit.
Don't you point that at me!
I see your hock leg lock maneuver. Don't think I don't!
I do not leg lock the comforter!
Oh yes you do!
u think I don't know your little icks? Where you leave like half a thimble of milk in the carton and put it back in the fridge so you don't have to be the one to "finish" it and replace it?
You're right. I do that. You know why do that, Clara?
Because you don't want to haul your ass to the market to buy it yourself!
Because I'm afraid to! God forbid I the wrong kind of grass-fed bio homogenized whatever and meet your wrath! You're like the Nutrition Nazi.
And I've got to be your little Nutrition Nazi Goebbels because we have to be this "united front" with Ollie! What's wrong if he eats two bowls of Captain Sugar instead of one? Or if his handwriting isn't perfect? Or if he goes to school for one day not dressed like Finneas J. Nerdo!
Poor Phil. I feel so sorry for you. I must be hard having to be the cool fun parent while I get to be the one who makes sure our child's fed, clothed and
How would you even know? You don't give me or anyone else a chance! You're so goddamn controlling! You've got to be Wonder Woman, keeping everyone in line, looking down on them from her fancy Wonder Woman plane and controlling everything with all her wonder superpowers! You paint yourself as this victim but you get off on being the superlady!
Urgh! You know w sometimes I don't pay attention to you, Phil? Because you give me a headache! Clara angrily rummages through her purse then lets out a frustrated sigh.
What? No aspirin in the wonderpurse? How could it be? Clara, furious, HURLS her purse at Phil's head. He ducks and the contents spill all over the road.
Screw you, Phil!
Yeah, fine! Sure! Screw me ! Even if I survive tonight I'm screwed all around anyway! Screwed with you! Screwed with my job!
What are you talking about, screwed with your job?
was supposed to spend all tonight guring out a new brilliant plan for the fund so George wouldn't take it over tomorrow. Doesn't look like that's gonna happen!
Why didn't you tell me?
I don't know, Clara. Maybe because I didn't want you chiming in on how Mr. Rivers was right. He wants the new guy for all the reasons you complain about me! Someone who doesn't "play it safe." Someone who'll "take a risk."
I can't believe that's what you think do.
Yeah, well...
She steps in front of him, trying to catch her breath.
I think we said all needs to be said right now, Clara. Panting, Clara holds out the manila envelope.
This... this... this...
What?
What is it? Clara looks over his shoulder, shakes her head and TURNS THE PICTURE THE OTHER WAY AROUND. Phil's eyes go wide.
Oh jeez. It's... it's...
I bet this didn't have anything to do with Stockton at first.
The Mayor must have gone to Stockton's club one night. He saw Dora working there and obviously gave some sign that he was interested.
So much for "Mr. Squeaky Clea
Her sleazy boyfriend Ray finds out and convinces her to take him up on it so they could photograph it and blackmail him.
They knew it was an election year and he would have to pay them whatever they asked.
But somehow Stockton found out about the photos too and wanted that power over the mayor himself.
So he sent his guys to the restaurant to intercept the Gales and get the photos.
But Ray and Dora spotted them and bailed before the Mayor even had a chance to show up. Phil thinks. He snaps his fingers.
What?
If we could find some way to get in touch with the mayor directly, without anyone else knowing, there actually might be a way out of this for us. Clara thinks for a moment. A light comes to her eyes.
can.
Whoa whoa whoa. Where do you you're going?
Oh, we're guests of Apartment 605 The Doorman picks up the phone to call the apartmen
And you are? looks at him in shock.
Are you crazy? It's 4 in the morning! We were lust out for dinner. Trust me
I'm not really allowed to just let you up there.
Please. Just look at us! The Doorman looks at Phil and Clara - a white, well dressed suburban couple.
OK. Yeah. Go ahead. The elevator door opens and they get inside.
Have a nice night.
You too.
As the elevator doors close, Phil and Clara look at each other, then simultaneously slip PAPER BAGS with EYE and MOUTH HOLES over their heads.
All right. All- As Mrs. Cardigan opens the door, Phil and Clara, in their masks, BUM RUSH her. Screaming, Cardigan dodges, running back to her desk. Phil and Clara give chase, but Cardigan grabs a LARGE METAL YARDSTICK and starts WHOPPING PHIL over and over on his paper bag head, screaming the whole time.
Jesus!
I can't find any rope. Only yarn.
Yarn? Fine. Just use that. I'll start looking. Phil gets to work, wrapping the yarn over and over, tying Cardigan's arms to the back of the chair, while Clara searches Cardigan's desk.
You two weren't very prepared.
Excuse me?
OK, why don't you lay off the critiqu
's not a critique. It's a fact.
Oh is it a fact?
Yes. ng word choice.
Wrong word choice? Unbelievable! Well, let me throw a little word choice "correction" your way.
Partner!
Five year old kids can't be "antagonistic."
Phil looks over. Clara makes the "Cut it out" gesture across her throat.
If you're done tying her up, come over and help. Phil crosses the room and starts going through notebooks on the desk.
The name's Cardigan, not Rockefeller, if you haven't figured it out yet! What idiots!
You must be such a positive influence on our youth.
You're one to talk!
Partner!
Got it! She notices Phil's expression.
What? hands the book to Clara to read. She does and darkens.
Oliver told her he's being mean to Je y Briggs because... he says he wants to marry her?
Let's make the call,
Lucy? Who's Lucy?
I'm Lucy.
(stunned', You and the Mayor are on a first name basis?
You're calling our Mayor in the middle of the night?
Charlie?!? Lucy!?!? _ appened to "boundaries matter? =_.h? What happened to that, bitch?
Hey "partner." How about you put a sock in it now.
You don't know me, Mr. Mayor, but I've recently come into possession of something that you were supposed to get from the Gales tonight. Silence on the line.
Hello?
And whether you realize it or not, we ended up doing you a favor. You see, this man named Mr. Stockton - I know if you know him-
Well, he tried to steal the photos from the Gales. He's even got cops on his payroll helping him out. We think he was planning to sabotage your re-election.
So what do you want for them?
What do we want? Phil looks at Clara.
We just want our lives back. We want to go home, Mr. Mayor.
That's it. Mayor Diggs breathes out and rubs his forehead.
But now the police think that-
Trust me. Get me the photos and he won't be bothering you again.
is it? Phil's concentrating hard on something. Thinking.
Uh... yeah. We'll meet you at the Adler Planetarium in 1 hour. Come alone. E
Of course. And... thank you. Click. The Mayor hangs up the phone and quietly leaves the bedroom.
We dodged a bullet. They calac _e .
interesting. ON STOCKTON'S MONITOR in front of him we see that Frank and Harry hold a wounded Ray and Dora in the meat locker.
They thought you were stealing the photos from the Gales to try to blackmail me yourself.
Did they, now? That's great.
They're going to meet me in an hour with them. Alone.
st keeps getting better.
Man, I love this city. Always have.
When was the last time we watched the sunrise together?
Probably the last time we were here.
You're The morning Ollie was born. They look at each other, remembering.
Man, I'm starving!
Me too.
Who needs white truffles when you've got a lemon zest Luna bar. Clara breaks it in two and hands half to Phil. They click the halves together, toasting each other, then silently chew, looking out. Phil shakes his head and starts GIGGLING.
What?
It's not funny.
No, I know it's not funny. It's not funny at all.
en why are you laughing?
Why are you laughing? They're both cracking up... then Phil notices a moment later that Clara's laughter has turned to
No. It's not that. just... this is nice. Right now.  You don't understand... I really don't want to be Wonder Woman, Phil! I don't At all!
You see! It isn't even there at all! I don't even have a plane! No plane! I'm running on fumes!
You're not running on fumes, Clara.
I'm not trying to be uptight, or controlling! Or a nutrition...
Nazi.
Nazi! I'm just trying the only way I know how to keep everything from fall apart!
It won't fall apart. And I really can help whenever you feel like it is. With Ollie. Whatever. You just never act like you need me to.
That's because as it is you see us as a distraction from your work!
You think I see you guys as a distraction? God no, Clara.
That's crazy, Phil. You do. You're a god man. You're the best man I know.
I'll never be the guy who remembers always put toilet paper on the right way.
I don't think I would really want to be with that guy, Phil. I just... want us to be on the same team again. As Clara sniffles, Phil takes this in for a beat. He nods.
Listen, you know what I said before, about not being the people we used to be?
Phil, we were angry-
No, Clara. It's true. We're not. And I know I'm going to drive you crazy again, and you're definitely going to drive me crazy. But I wouldn't want to do it with anybody else. He hugs her tight.
We had a good fight tonight, didn't we?
Yeah, we did. You know the worst part about not talking about all this recently?
What?
We missed out on a lot of make up sex. And our make up sex woulda rocked!
You think?
Oh yeah. Phil s when he spots something behind Clara. MAYOR DIGGS looks both walks from his car in the parking lot toward the--.
Here we go.
1 hold it.
This is what you're looking for. I've tten down our information inside.
And that's it?
That's it. We're going home now. The Mayor nods, and Phil and Clara start walking past him toward the parking lot. Mayor Diggs stays behind, nervously tapping the envelope in his hand. As Phil and Clara get halfway to the lot, ALL THE MAYOR'S CAR DOORS OPEN, and Manning, Frank, Harry, and Mr. Stockton climb out. Frank and Harry pop the trunk and grab SHEETS OF CLEAR PLASTIC. Phil's eyes go wide.
Oh God. Run, Clara! Phil and Clara start to run, when a GUNSHOT hits the ground in front of them. They turn, when ANOTHER SHOT rings out.
The next one won't be a warning shot. They look over to see Manning training a gun as he and Stockton walk toward them, Harry and Frank behind with the plastic.
(to Harry and Frank Let's do it over there. y and Frank quickly throw the plastic sheets down on the grass nearby.
I'm going to wait in the c r don't mind.
Sure thing, Mr. Mayor.
Please. Please don't do
Over there.
Please! We have a child!
said over there!
Last time I'm going to say it. Resigned, Phil and Clara sadly look at each other, then walk to stand in front of the plastic on the ground.
Mr. Stockton and Lieutenant inning turn. Mayor Diggs sifts through pages of DOCJ J:TTS that were in t h ''w Wila Envelope.
-eally were planning to give you the pictures, Mr. Mayor. That is, until you -.sre so casual about is not needing to worry about the cop who was after us. That made me a little suspicious because I never told you which cop it was.
Then we got to talking and realized how dumb we were.
E If you came on to some waitress at the Rainbow, you must have felt pretty darn comfortable there.
Which meant Stockton was probably your buddy.
Where are the pictures?
But we were still confused, because if you guys are buddies, how do you explain the Falconwood Corporation? Mr. Stockton's face blanches.
They're obviously not going to tell us! Just shoot them!
Wait. I've heard that name. What's the Falconwood Corporation?
Runs the hiring of inspectors for the Department of Highways in Chicago. You
Manning! I said shoot them!
I work for the Mayor, Terrence.
Why do you keep interrupting, Terrence?
Maybe because according to the paperwork you've got there, he owns Falconwood.
Not only that, you'll see those other pages that he also owns a cc=rpany called Eurostruct - which rents the city all of its construction equipment.
Frank, Harry! Frank and Harry reach for their guns, but Manning turns his gun on them.
The more violations Falconwood finds, the longer Eurostruct rents the equipment. That turns into big bucks, Mr. Mayor. I'm sure that's not a moral problem for you, but he's kind of screwing you in an election year, isn't he? Some of us are pretty pissed off about the roads. Mayor Diggs flips through the documents, taking it all
You did this to me? I don't get it, Terrence. Why? How much do you need? I have the Lieutenant here watch your back on all of your gambling clubs-
Oh, do you mean the ones that you gamble at? Where I cover your debts? Those clubs?
I slipped your company 5 no-bid foreclosed buildings for a dollar each downtown.
You think that pays for what I do for you? The girls I have to pay off? The jet charters? And let's not even get into your "re-election fund"! Let's not even go there!
How did you get this? How?
Tha be from me. Mr. Stockton and others turn around to see HOLBROOKE P_IF SON, brandi= --.g his gun and looking like the FBI he always -t e_' to be, leap -= a pack of Cher AGEN=IS as they JT OF THE L '_:I T"_ : RIU?
FBI! Drop it!
Yeah, yeah. I know all about you, buddy. With a smile Phil and Clara get up, disconnecting the WIRES under their clothing. Seeing them hand over the wires to Holbrooke, it hits Mayor Diggs what he's just revealed.
Aw fuck.
either.
Everything OK?
Yeah. They just need me downtown in half an hour for a news conference with the Deputy Mayor. Want it for the morning shows.
Don't think they're going to be calling you the IT guy any-more.
Listen guys, I feel weird about not even acknowledging you two.
Don't.
But you should be up there with me. You handed this whole case to me.
 Yeah, well-, that's how we roll. They get out of the car and start up the driveway.
Hey hey! Up bright and early, aren Phil looks over to see his overly cheery neighbor Chaz in his jogging suit. He smiles, appreciating Chaz for the first time.
Yep. We sure are. As he joins Clara on the doorstep, they take each other in.
You have your presentation in a few hours.
Yeah. Me too. It was fun.
It was.
So... let's do this again sometime?
