And we're good to go. TWO MEN come out of the BEACON HOTEL. Loud Hawaiian shirts, walking a Chihuahua. They pause; take in the scene on Ocean. Adjust their EARPIECES.
Proceed to first checkpoint and hold. They thread their way to the corner... across the street.. .onto the Promenade. Under fat shady palm trees, to a CLEARING --
Okay sit tight. Company's coming. THROUGH BINOCULARS NOW, as TWO DEADLY MEN approach like barracudas. A THIRD GUY, BEHIND THEM, the KINGPIN they're protecting. Then as TREETOPS BLOCK THE VIEW --
Shit. Hang on. Leopold scans, looking for them. Searching, until he FINDS --
The Hawaiian Shirt Guys hear that. The SEE the Barracudas, getting nearer; steal a look at the roof...
Oh, mama. She bends, twists; water streams down every delicious curve.
She sure is taking her time...
She must be really salty...
 It's not just the salt. She's got sunscreen on. Then the sand gets on that, and it sticks...  Hell, one time I was in Hawaii? And these three models --
Wait a minute.  Hawaii.
-- Shit! He WHIPS THE BINOCULARS back: but all that's left is the Chihuahua. Then, walking into the spot --
Hi, I'm Dave Barry. Has something like this ever happened to you? (bends down to pet
Because if you're a guy - or if you know someone who is - then what you've just seen should look pretty familiar. He picks up the Chihuahua, starts walking with it.
Scientists call this condition "Lust Induced Brain Freeze." It affects millions of guys, every day, in all walks of life -- causing anything from a mild embarrassment, to an international incident. He stops. Finds LEOPOLD and STEARNS and SEVERAL OTHER AGENTS pointing GUNS at him.
Hand over the dog.
Hey. I didn't even know it was a dog. They take it from him; rush it away. Dave turns to CAMERA.
Notice I didn't say it's a condition that affects men every day -- only guys. And that subtle but important difference is one of the things this movie is about.
You'll never get away with this. I'll sue you down to your last penny.
Good luck - I transferred everything we own into private accounts, where you can't touch it. In fact, as of now, you're broke.
But...why?
I've fallen in love with another woman. A younger woman. Prettier, with no cellulite. Actually, I think you'd like her.
You bastard. The IMAGE FREEZES. Dave walks into the room.
Now clearly, this woman is dealing with a Man.
Whereas Guys aren't capable of doing anything like what you just saw. Guys are more like this:
I just want you to know, I've thought about this a lot.
Mm.
And I've talked it over with everyone I know.
So there's nothing left to do now, but leave you, forever, and only see you from across a shiny conference table with bloodthirsty lawyers all around it.
 -- Okay.
"Okay?" That's all you have to say?  Well then I guess this is it. She pushes back from the table, starts off.
Wait a minute.
 How can you dQ that? How can you trade Lupenza?  What's the matter with these people?
Beats me. I saw this on the eight o'clock.
He's the backbone of the whole team! They're pikers without Lupenza!
I'll see you in court.
-- I gotta call Lenny. He takes out his cell phone. She levels a look.
Maybe you should call your lawyer too.
If he could hit left-handed pitching, I would.
Well when I met him, I didn't know so much. About guys, or men or what have you -- we just didn't talk about such things then. In fact, I didn't see him naked until quite well into our marriage. When was it Albert?
A year ago. By accident.
Anyway. I thought I was marrying a man, but didn't know that in his heart, he was a guy.
When did you first suspect?
Not long after the wedding. But it didn't bother me. I just didn't know how to recognize the signs. But we've learned to live with it. Haven't we, Albert?  Albert.
It's twelve hundred and thirty-one miles from this spot right here, to Cleveland.
What does that have to do with anything? He holds up the device - handheld GPS.
Six hundred fifty-one from Atlanta.
Who cares how far we are from Atlanta?
You have a cousin there.
Albert. There's a person here asking us questions. There's a film crew here. He looks up at the CAMERA, as if just noticing someone there. Then holding up the GPS --
You. Where do you live.
Here in Miami.
What part. Lenore buries her head.
Like a lot of big cities, Miami is known for its sizeable population of guys. So we came here to take the city's pulse on the subject.
Let me put it this way. Everyone I ever dated was a male. I mean they were all men. But only some of them were guys. You know?
I see.
 -- The guys were funnier. But the men were more responsible. You could almost half-believe them when they told you something sometimes.
So, if you were to meet someone that was funny and responsible...
That would be a woman.
Well guys, they're sort of like your older brother. And men are like your dad.
In what way?
Your older brother doesn't have to grow up. Your dad came that way.
So now you have some background on basic guy attributes. But before we move on, let's look at one more scene and see where you stand --
Roger?
 Oh man you gotta show that again Shepauses; chews her pen...
Roger...I think I really love you.
 But I can't bear the uncertainty anymore, of where this relationship is going. Roger turns...
I'm not asking whether you want to get married. Only whether you believe that we have some kind of a future together. That you, and I - have a future.
Now this is just what you want in a playoff game. You got snow, you got mud, you got a lead that keeps changing, you got two great teams that just hate each other to the bone and would rather die than give up... Roger looks...then takes the REMOTE and TURNS OFF THE TV - waving Elaine over, who cuddles into him.
I've been thinking too, Elaine. And for the first time in my life, I'm feeling like I might really be close to a lasting commitment. I haven't said anything up until now because it's always been important to me that I not mislead you. But yes, Elaine. I want to think that we dQ have a future. And with a little more time, I think I could be sure.
Oh, Roger... He smiles. Strokes her hair and pulls her in even closer. They share a long deep sigh together, As the PICTURE FREEZES and DAVE WALKS IN.
If this was how you responded, you're not a guy. You may not even exist.  On the other hand...
I'm not asking whether you want to get married. Only whether you believe that we have some kind of a future together. That you, and I - have a future.  Roger?
 What. FREEZE on her look, and --
Well there were always guys at my shows - right from the beginning. I mean you start out playing beer halls, right? So when you have beer, you have guys. And it sorta just grew from there. But I was okay with it. They didn't cause much trouble.
And what about men.
Men cause trouble.
So it all works out.
Long as they buy the records...
So where did this all start? Many experts now think they know where men came from, but what about Guys? where did they come from? He stops, peels off a THICK BOOK full of science things.
To answer this question accurately, we might have to look something up. So instead we'll travel back to prehistoric sub-Saharan Africa, and get there just in time for the Dawn of Guys.
Grunt grunt grunt grunt grunt!
Grunt grunt!0 Ha ha!
Grunt grunt grunt! 0 That's really funny!
Grunt ...0 I don't get it... The other three look at him.
Grunt grunt?0 Whassup?
Grunt grunt grunt. 0 Nothing. We've been hunting.
Grunt grunt? 0 Where are your jagged rock slabs?
Grunt? Slabs? (looks at Primate
Grunt grunt grunt? Who needs slabs? Primate Pete laughs with him; then holds up a ROUND ROCK, about the size of a grapefruit. Primate Roger and Primate Gene trade looks with Primate Lenny and Primate Phil. Grunting/subtitles continue.
Where'd you get that?
Primate Discount Manny. He just got them in.
Mind if I have a look?
Be my guest. He hands it over. Primate Roger lays down his jagged rock slab to check it out. His buddies gather round.
How do you kill an animal with that?
You throw it.
You mean you don't chase the old ones until they get tired and then hit them with the jagged rock slabs?
 You can stand in one place all day. And when they go by, you just let loose. He shows a throwing motion. The first four look intrigued.
You can carry more than one - and if you're throwing uphill, it rolls back down if you miss. It's so much easier with these.
-- I'm sticking with mine.  We've been using these jagged slabs forever. And you know why? Because they work. And anyway, killing them is only half of it -- how are you gonna skin a wildebeest with that? They look at Primate Pete: Yeah, how? But he's there.
We get the women to do it. They look among themselves. They like it. But then.
How?
-- I'm working on it.
 Please don't tell me you got rid of your jagged rock slab.
But these are great!
But you didn't kill anything.
Nobody's going with jagged slabs anymore.
But the kids are hungry.
What about your pounded roots?
Pounded roots are a side dish. They need balance in their diets.  And another thing - suppose you do start bringing animals home using this -- who's going to skin and clean them? He looks at her-the SOUND of TOMORROW'S ROOSTER CROWING as
Five hundred dollars?
It can hold a thousand addresses.
So can my address book.
Can your address book pick up your em-ail?
No but my computer can.
Well this can do both.
For five hundred dollars it should give me a manicure, Roger! It should drive me home from work at night! HOW could you spend that kind of money without discussing it first? On Roger's look...the PICTURE FREEZES. Dave walks in.
There's a whole list of things a guy is supposed to discuss first. Unfortunately, he never knows what they are until he's already not discussed them.
To a girl it's a pain in the butt. But to a guy - some things just come naturally...
Well did you ask?
This is a shortcut. Explorer Elaine shakes her head. Dave enters.
There's a very simple reason why guys don't ask for directions. It's because they know that if they do, someone else - most likely Visigoths - will come and steal their woman. CAMERA PANS to the side rails, where a CLUSTER OF HUNGRY VISIGOTHS nod, slobbering, confirming this.
I just want to get to Colonial America.
-- and this is your way of expressing the public outrage over the high- handed anti-democratic actions of the British Government in general and King George III in specific?
 Uh, yeah.
Might I ask, sir, whose idea was this?
The one drinking coffee?
That's him. His name's Starbuck. He said to get rid of all the tea.
I didn't do that. (then as the Reporter
Don't tell anyone.
Well that's pretty much how it is right now, right? They don't grow up. Or, they grow up, but they don't change.
No they grow up all right -- but only just enough - you know?
Like they'll meet the absolute minimum requirements of being a man, but that's it. The rest of the time they're fourth-graders. Walking fourth-graders.
More like driving fourth graders.
With credit cards.
And a phone.
And give them ten minutes on their own? Or put them in with other guys? Now you've gone nuclear.
Please.
In learning to understand Guys today, it's important to remember that these same guys, only yesterday, were just kids.
See? Humans. He walks past with his takeout order. As ELAINE at 8 notices Roger, blushing, taking all this punishment because of her.
Where are we in the area of Guy Violence, Doctor.
Well first, one must understand the inherent differences in DNA and cell structure as relates to men and women.
And what can be done about that.
well, some of my esteemed colleagues are quite keen on the idea of tampering with the DNA itself - an idea with which I heartily disagree. The bastards...
Then what would you recommend.
Me? Well they can start by spreading out the funding a little bit. Let a few other scientists wet their beaks. I mean what's the point of rewarding the same tired old hacks, year after
I meant about Guy Violence.
 Well nothing, really. I mean, what can you do. Short of lobotomizing them, anyway. No I suppose we'll just have to continue to channel their aggression into socially acceptable outlets. Like professional wrestling, or the space program.
I see. Can I ask you a question?
Certainly.
Where'd you get that laser pointer.
It's mine.
A lot of work has been done in the field of children's toys and how they unconsciously reinforce gender roles. Studies have found that over ninety-three per cent of this work is done by researchers who don't have children of their own. But to test the theory anyway, we're here at Toy World Warehouse Planet.
Hi! My friend here is looking for toys for his son that are gender neutral, environmentally sound, and culturally unbiased!
Here it is. He brings up a box with a picture of a spinning top on it.
It's recyclable.
Oh I got that for Benjy.
Well I'm into fireworks. I like to take 'em apart, you know. And study 'em. See what makes 'em tick.
I just got these from Ohio. I don't think they're as good as the ones I got from Tennessee. Not as loud, you know?
Well no, if loud is your --
If you want to hear loud - listen to this. He goes over to a different box, takes out what looks like a stick of dynamite. Gets ready to light it; turns to CAMERA.
You may want to step back a couple hundred yards.
So when we see guys like Ed, and his fireworks - or guys shooting marine flares into innocent pumpkins, or building catapults that'll throw a Buick - we should not condemn them. We should not assume these are just pointless juvenile activities. Instead we should be convinced they are, and move on to Guys in the Workplace.
Guys at work? Or guys doing work.
I mean unless you want to talk about faxing or emailing their stupid jokes back and forth. Sick jokes.
Ten, fifteen years ago? A guy would call you up with some joke he just heard. So you wanna pass it on, it's by phone. One person at a time. Then a while later, some guy calls you up with the same exact joke. Then when group faxing came in, it really sped things up. Next thing you know there's like ten faxes on your machine, from places you never even heard of. Places around the world, I'm saying.
And how long would that take.
A run of the mill, 'guy walks into a bar' joke, those'd take about .a. week to come back to you. The topical ones, your mass murders and tragic accidents and the like, they're naturally gonna have a lot more heat on them and they'll circulate a lot quicker. I mean no one's gonna sit on a Princess Diana joke until three weeks after the crash. No one i know, anyway.
A lot of people don't understand the attention and the kind of importance these jokes have.
Who.
No one knows that.
So I get this call at work. (then to Roger back
You want to tell this?
Its just a sprain.
 I get on the phone and they say he's okay - but maybe I should come down to the paper and get him. Does he look okay?
It's a sprain. It just looks worse.
Not the way I heard it.
He's how old?
High school. A sophomore.
Big deal. I could run the forty that fast.
You and who - the Flash? This kid set a national record.
Yeah? What nation.
Why would there be an article about a poem.
I'm just saying. I don't see the four of you fighting over who can write the better sonnet.
So?
So no one gets hurt writing sonnets.
 It's a sprain.
When did you last run the forty?
Hey. I could beat you in the forty running backwards.
You couldn't even beat your butt running backwards.
 Will you guys cut it out? They stop. Look at him.
The kid in the story's in high school. You're not. You're supposed to be adults and you're bragging about who can beat who in a stupid footrace.
No one's bragging.
Gene's just saying he can run the forty in under six seconds.
Hey. I can do it in under six seconds. FREEZE THE PICTURE, on their expressions. BRING UP "CHARIOTS
I don't know why I listened to you. You need to see a doctor.
It's a sprain, Elaine.
Roger you can't walk.
It'll work itself out. She gives him a look. Parks him long enough to close the door behind him. Without her support, he drops to the floor. She turns to the CAMERA.
Why won't they go to the doctor?
Here's why. He holds up a RUBBER GLOVE. Dangles it harmlessly.
I don't care who they are. If they think there's even a chance their doctor will use one of these - and they always assume there is - they won't come in.
(puts it away, shakes
If there's anything out there that would bring them in... it hasn't been invented yet.
What seems to be the problem?
Well the main thing is, I keep coughing up blood. And I get these really severe chest pains, and double vision sometimes. And every night at sunset, little worms come burrowing out of my skin.
It's just a sprain.
That's what I thought.
A lot has been said about how guys don't share their feelings.
You mean they have them?
Or they have them and don't acknowledge them.
Or they don't think that others have them.
Or they just don't think.
(as they agree on
-- Is it possible that they do have feelings, they do acknowledge them and they do know others have them - but they just don't express it the same way? Four blank faces look at him. Then.
Sports. They have feelings about sports.
And their underwear.
Once. I nearly lost my life.
They act like it's so sacred. I've seen pairs of briefs with holes in them larger than the leg holes.  I tried to throw a pair out once? And sneak it past him? He went out into the garbage and found them. He said he couldn't trust me after that.
Tell me what that's all about.
I don't even want to think about it.
 So you agree then, that guys at least have feelings.
They just waste them. That's all.
Now remember. Gene's dad is real sick. Kelly says he doesn't talk about it. So see if you can draw him out.
He already did talk about it.
Oh? What did he say?
He said his dad is real sick. She gives him a look. Gets to the door.
What are those?
Kelly's boss is turning forty.
So you're giving her magazines?
 Just see if you can get him to talk.
Galaxians. Far out...
(while Roger keeps
Can you believe the Yankees got Lupenza.
They get everybody.
I know. They suck.
I know. Silence. Roger pulls out two cartridges, compares them.
I got to Level 24 of Arkanoids.
You've seen the Evil Presence?  What's it look like? Gene shrugs; even the best of friends. Roger understands. CAMERA PANS to Dave.
Believe it or not, ladies - that was sharing.  And believe it or not, guys - so is
Well I don't know. How do you think she feels about getting older?
I don't know... I know how I felt. How did you feel about it?
How does anybody feel.
Well if we go that way, we know who to invite.
But then who do we not invite.
Exactly. And how are they going to feel about that.
So maybe we should make it a slightly larger gathering.
-- Depends on the food, I guess. I mean, if we go with a larger gathering...
Exactly.
(finds the right
I saw something earlier in here about low-fat hors d'oeuvres.
Oh - I've seen that one too. They open to the article, scanning it.
Hmm.
Hmm.
You thinking what I'm thinking?
That if we have low fat hors d'oeuvres she'll think we noticed she's gaining weight?
Exactly.
Thinking she won't think we've noticed the weight gain.
Unless she thinks that's insensitive. You know, that we hadn't noticed...
Hmm... They close the magazine, look through the others when:
How about medium fat hors d'oeuvres?
And we could cut them into smaller pieces?
And how would she feel about that...
That one has the GPS. With the screen that has maps of everything?
What about with the convertible.
It's optional on the convertible. Unless you get the turbo, then it's standard.
Phil Wonkerman got the turbo.
No shit...Phil got a Porsche?
Said it was his birthday present to himself.
Beats me. Probably around the same time when he got the car.
No shit...
 He just got a Porsche.
Right. They look at the TV again. Then, from the kitchen doorway:
Roger? They turn. Elaine gives Roger a look. PICTURE FREEZES AS:
Roger met Elaine at a company event.
-- They discovered they had something in common right away. He points to ROGER and ELAINE, over by a tiki-torch.
You're kidding! That was you? At the Burger King?
I was in fourth grade.
I was too! But my God, you remembered that?
 She loved that he remembered that.
 A few nights later, he asked her out. He points over to the LANE where they're bowling.
They had a good time, and so he asked her again. And then before too long they were seeing each other regularly, and not seeing anyone else.
What.
Nothing... She smiles; gets in. Roger pauses. CAMERA PANS TO DAVE.
Roger has no idea that this was a defining moment for her. Roger gets in. Fuzzy but not sure why.
Do you realize that, as of tonight, we've been seeing each other for exactly six months? CAMERA HOLDS on her. She waits.
Well hey - you know? I'm not so sure I want this kind of a relationship either. Sometimes I wish I had a little more space, so I'd have time to think about whether I really want us to keep going this way. I mean, where are we going? Are we just going to keep seeing each other at this level of intimacy? Are we heading toward marriage? Toward children? Toward a lifetime together? Am I ready for that level of commitment? Do I really even know this person?
Roger?
Roger.
Please don't torture yourself like this. Maybe I should never have...
EMPTY_LINE
She struggles to keep control. Her OVAL IMAGE disapproves.
I'm such a fool. I mean I know there's no knight. I really know that. It's silly. There's no knight, and there's no horse.
There's no horse? He looks up; his OVAL IMAGE SHRUGS; gets up off the stool.
You think I'm a fool, don't you?
(reacting to the Oval
-- no! He looks over at her; not sure who he responded to...but it appears he said the right thing anyway.
It's just.. .well I need ...time, I think. I think I need some time. Roger looks up at his OVAL IMAGE: gone. He looks at Elaine.
-- Time. Yes.
(moved, touches his
Oh Roger, do you really feel that way?
What way?
About time. Do you feel that way about time? Roger looks confused. His OVAL IMAGE is off playing pool now. He turns to Elaine; does his best to look decisive.
Oh. Well. Yes. Yes I do, feel that way. About time.
-- Thank you. They smile. Look forward. He looks a little nervous. She looks serene...
Come on, Kelly -- pick up.
Hey, Ref - look alive. Those guys were offsides.
Who, the Albanians or the Moroccans.
I know. He eats some more Doritos. But then suddenly-he pauses.
I think I missed something back there.
 No I mean in the car.
.and you said 'there's no knight.'
Did you say 'no knight and no horse,' or 'no horse and no knight?' She looks at Elaine.. This is crucial.
I said 'no knight.' And then I said 'no horse.'
But maybe not the horse. Elaine racks her brain; just can't say for sure.
It's probably not important...  This is really it for you. Isn't it.
 Really it.
 Does he know it? Elaine looks up; she has no idea.
Check. .who passes it right back.
Check.
Listen.
What.
 -- Elaine and I.
Elaine and you what.
 We sort of have this -- thing. He looks at Gene. Conveys the full impact of this. Then --
Did she ever mention owning a horse?
Who.
Elaine. She ever talk about horses? Like, to Kelly or something?
Not that I know of. Why? Roger thinks.. .then shakes it off. Throws the ball to Gene.
What's the score.
We haven't started yet. They start to play. CAMERA FINDS DAVE, on a nearby bench.
Roger's in love.
I can sympathize with your friend, man. I've seen a lot of guys go there.
Do you have any advice for a guy in love?
I don't know - most of my songs are about guys out of love.
I see.
Cause you know, a guy in love - a guy who's where your friend's at, anyway - they don't know where they are. They're like an ant, standing on a truck tire. They don't know how they got there - all they know is that's not where they were a minute ago. But then they sort of get vaguely okay with it, you know? They start hangin' out there, they're feelin' pretty good.
What happens then.
Well then they get crushed. Dave gulps. She shrugs.
Rock and roll, my friend. Life in the city.
November 8, 1960. The day John Kennedy beat Nixon and won the White House. That was the day I met her. His WIFE turns, looks at him funny.
It was close the whole way - it was neck and neck by God. But then old Kennedy Senior rode on in on that big old pile of money of his, and fixed the results in Illinois. And that made all the difference. Happiest day of my life, just about. She watches him. The man is hopeless.
I was walking away from a newspaper stand, with my head buried in the final edition. And I looked up, and there she was. (he looks over at his
You were wearing a yellow sun dress and there was a smudge of makeup just over your left eye. He smiles at her. Gets a thin smile back.
What.
That wasn't me.
Of course it was you. What are you talking about?
It was your first wife.
Nonsense.
Don't believe her.
I've never owned a yellow sun dress in my life. And even if I did, I wouldn't be wearing it in November.
 -- The point is, in 1960 an Irish Catholic could be elected president of this fine country, as long as his father was a filthy rich rum-runner with connections to the Mafia! And when Nixon did get elected, he had to quit! His wife shakes her head.
Well we didn't know each other. I mean, of course we didn't - we hadn't met yet. But we were both invited to the same party, by different people who we only knew marginally - only the party got cancelled, and I guess that's how marginal we were, because no one told us. So we came in different cars and found ourselves at the same front door - with no one home.  So Gene asked me out to eat.
I was hungry.
You were in love.  You told me you loved me, that first night!
I said I loved mashed potatoes.
You were eating mashed potatoes. You said you loved me. You said because your name was Gene and mine was Kelly, that that just proved it. We were meant to be together.
(off her look; then
-- Does this have to go in the movie?
Contrary to what many women believe, it's fairly easy to develop a long term, stable, intimate and mutually fulfilling relationship with a guy. As long as this is the guy:
With human guys, it's extremely difficult. This is because guys don't really grasp what women mean by the term 'relationship.'
What I don't get is how they can be a fully grown adult male and not be able to make a commitment to a woman who loves him like no one else - and yet the same person, at age seven, could make an unbreakable lifelong commitment to the San Francisco Giants, who do not even know him and who never will.  I just don't get it.
They're never "ready." If you ask me, guys are in a permanent state of nonreadiness. That's where they live. If guys were turkey breasts, you could put one in a 350 degree oven on the Fourth of July and they still wouldn't be ready in time for Thanksgiving.
The thing is, you shouldn't even think about marrying them until you really know them. But you can't really know them until you marry them.  That's the thing.
One: A guy will have sex with anything. Two: A guy will do anything to have sex. There's your Guy Fidelity. Move on.
What do you mean, it's 'supposed to be that way.' It's stuck.
It's basic physics, Elaine. Wood expands. And then, later, it contracts.
But we can't get out.
Which also means other people can't get in. That's part of the design - it discourages burglars.
 The same way the toaster was designed to discourage carbohydrate consumption by bursting into flames?
That was an outdoor toaster. It was clearly not designed for indoor situations. The PICTURE FREEZES. DAVE steps in front, talks to CAMERA.
I think it's obvious here, that Roger has absolutely no idea what he's talking about. But Guy Pride forces him to keep acting like he does know, for reasons I believe we've covered in an earlier scene. He nods his head over to the corner, where the CAMERA PANS TO SEE HUDDLED VISIGOTHS, WAITING. Then BACK TO ROGER AND ELAINE as the PICTURE UNFREEZES.
Okay. So now we have a broken water heater and a stuck front door.
I think it's time to call Steve. ELAINE'S IMAGE FREEZES. Roger turns to the CAMERA.
"Steve."
 As far as women are concerned, God didn't really rest on the seventh day. On the seventh day, God created Steve. As the Women all sigh...
Roger? Did you find anything?
Good news, honey! The basement's level.
How can you tell?
Because I know a well built floor when I see one! We were right to buy this house. Everything works just the way it should!
Except there's no hot water.
 Sweetheart, don't you remember? The power company talked about this.
How about calling Steve.
 But Roger you're such a good copy editor. You don't have to be a good repairman too! Honest!
Okay I think I found it.
The problem?
The water heater. Elaine leans her head against the door jam.
I don't know why he does this. He doesn't know what he's doing down there...
It'll be all right.
 It's not like some broken part is just going to be standing there, waving a flag that says "Help me." Or there'll be an octopus on the compressor, and then he could say, "Look! There's an octopus on the compressor!"
Trust me, it'll all work out. After a while, there's no more harm they can do. Roger comes around from the side door. SLOSHING feet. Holds a dripping PART.
I just need to go to the hardware store. Hi Kelly. Kelly smiles, waves. Then as Roger sloshes past, to the car.
And what is it about the hardware store? All they do in there is buy a bunch of tools that they don't know how to use -- and no matter what the problem is, all they'll end up doing is whacking at it with a hammer until it breaks even more.
And then they cover it all up with duct tape and then come out and say it's supposed to work that way.
Let me tell you something. If I had a dollar for every time I heard "Steve's" name, I could hire somebody better than Steve, just to shake things up. Get her one of these old semi-retired guys - someone from the pre-steroid days, with the hairy shoulders, and the butt crack. They won't be so quick to call him every ten minutes. The Clerk comes back. Hands over a 53-piece TOOL SET.
Remember. Keep these away from anything magnetic.
The thing is - I missed out.  It's like everyone else was there the day they taught all this stuff. How to look inside acar.Or a furnace. Or a rocketship.But the guys like Steve, youknow.They were born knowing allthis- and now they're laughing.
They all go down to the Competent Guys' Tavern and compare notes.
 I'm sorry - the door's stuck.
I can fix that. He checks it out, taps it in one place and opens the door. Elaine steps aside, enchanted -- -- as Roger drives up and sees this. And the pain in his heart is something we can feel.
If you've got a minute, sir. I'd like to show you something.
 Should I bring these?
That won't be -- (then as all the parts
-- necessary.
I can fix that. Roger puts the tool kit down. Joins Steve.
There's your problem right there.
I was afraid of that. Steve looks at him. One of those sideways looks.
What you gotta do is jack up your laminate bolts and remove the calcification on the stress points.
(while Steve takes
Of course when he says "you," he doesn't mean "me." I don't have jacks. I don't have winches. And Steve has got like fifty kinds of each, right on his truck. If society collapsed, the Steves of the world will be living in nice sturdy shelters that they built with their own hands, eating food that they grew or caught. And I'll be getting shredded to death by wolverines.
Here we go. He reaches down. Pulls out a fuse assembly, holds it up.
Here we go. Back in business in no time.
Dad, look! Look what Steve made me! A working battleship made entirely out of Coke cans! Roger looks. It is a working battleship made from Coke cans.
This is so neat! Thanks, Steve! The kid runs off. Roger looks at Elaine.
Do we have a kid?
Steve got him from the truck.
Just because Steve can fix things, doesn't mean he's shallow and doesn't have any concerns. All guys have concerns. Deep concerns.
Hell yeah. Steve gives him a look. Turns on the radio.
I'm just sayin' those owners better never run into me. Because God help 'em, man.
I mean it, man.
Grocery -- the guy batted 340, from both sides.
His on-base percentage was in the 4's, with a rocket arm on defense and an awareness of the field like nobody's business. And they trade him for minor leaguers? For untested, greenhorn punks who can barely even --
.I try to - I'm trying. But I just can't make sense of this... Mike the Moose stops the tape.
Meaningless? Mike the Moose looks at him.
.seventy-seven per cent from the line during the regular season, and a red-hot eighty-three per cent during the playoffs.
Stop saying that!
Stop saying that!
So they really picked the wrong guy to foul, at this crucial point in such a crucial game.
He dribbles. He sets -- he dribbles again... Roger and Gene lean forward.
Come on come on come on comeoncomeon --
Miss the shot miss the shot miss the shot come on and miss the shot --
-- and the Knicks call time out. They lean back in their seats; breathe some relief.
They don't know the players. The players don't know them - yet they idolize these people. They follow them from team to team -- and they know more about these teams than they know about their own families. They might not even know if they have families.
Not during the playoffs anyway.
 And what gets me is, they think - they really think - that whether a team wins or loses or not depends on how much they personally care about them. Like if they don't care, the team can't win.
But that's true. They look over - see him on the counter.
What's true.
It's true that the level of concern a guy shows for his team can affect the outcome of the game.  I mean not just one guy - but lots of guys. All the guys who care about the team combined, if they really care, can make a difference on the scoreboard.
That's crazy.
Who is he?
 -- Follow me.
For the first time ever, through the use of highly advanced technology, we will be able to see the actual Concern Rays emanating from the minds of Roger and Gene, in their attempt to affect the outcome of this upcoming - and totally critical - foul shot.
These Concern Rays go straight into the television screen where they join the combined Concern Rays of all the other guy fans watching this game right now.
 Then the rays are transmitted to the actual arena itself, all arriving at the same moment regardless of any geographic or time zone differences.
And it is here, at the arena, where the combined Concern Rays from both teams' fans will be measured - not just for quantity, but for quality. Because this - as every Guy must believe - is what wins ball games.
He sets...he takes the shot...it's
-- Come on come on come on ---
Miss the shot miss the shot miss the
-- and he misses! He misses! It bounces off the rim and Miami wins the game! What a comeback! A field day for the Heat! Roger and Gene leap up and scream. High fives, victory dance. Dave looks at Elaine and Kelly - who look at each other...
Let's get back to those invitations.
I'm with you. They turn, go back to the kitchen. The celebration goes on.
If there's one thing women don't know about when it comes to guys, it's the public rest room problem. And we're here to clear that up right now. He stops outside a MEN'S REST ROOM, which is currently closed for maintenance.
This room is a private hell for a countless number of guys -- yet the women in their lives are completely in the dark about it.
But before we go inside, let's talk with a leading social scientist, so that what we're about to show you sounds a little more official.
I see.
Um...you were saying?
With me now is the great John Madden -- legendary coach of football's Oakland Raiders and veteran network analyst for CBS Sports and now the Fox Sports Network. John, thanks for coming by today.
Happy to be here Dave.
John, you heard what our leading expert said about this particular anxiety that guys have regarding bathrooms in general and public ones in particular. Any thoughts?
Well he's exactly right, Dave. I mean the guy was a little loopy but he hit the nail on the head.
So an airport bathroom presents a specific kind of challenge.
The worst kind, Dave, and in a lotta ways. Because a guy's main goal is to get in and outta there without having to deal in any other way with any other guy - and in an airport bathroom especially, with the turnover rate they've got, he's up against some pretty mean odds.
Couldn't agree more, John. Let's go
Okay. Now this angle here, we're outside the bathroom and the maintenance guy's just about to open it up. We SEE THE AREA OUTSIDE THE MEN'S ROOM, WITH "CLOSED FOR MAINTENANCE" SIGNS IN ENGLISH AND SPANISH. A JANITOR starts removing the signs as a BUSINESS TRAVELER heads over.
Here's our first candidate now --
Okay now the leadoff guy, he's gonna come in, he's gonna see the open field and he's gonna swing wide right to grab a spot against the wall. He's got one flank covered this way and for now he's feelin' pretty good -- and of course by doin' that, he's also settin' the tone for everything that happens after.
What's the main thing we're looking for, John. What does each individual guy feel he needs to get out of this.
Well the crucial thing here, is makin' sure there's no eye contact. I mean none - zero. These guys'll look up, they'll look down, they'll look straight ahead -- but a guy would rather have you poke both his eyes out with burning hot fire tongs, Dave, than to give the next guy over a reason to think you might be lookin' at him in a public bathroom. For reasons that oughtta be pretty darn obvious.
Obvious indeed. Now here comes Guy Number Two -- The SECOND GUY comes in; John diagrams the call.
Now Guy Number Two, what he's gonna do is, he's gonna come in, see the first guy in position along the wall and right away he's gonna line up wide on the opposite side. This is a best case scenario here, something both these guys can appreciate. Plus they've opened up the middle for the third guy -- The THIRD GUY comes in. John diagrams his path to the middle urinal. The Guy goes there.
What about eye contact in this situation.
Well you're still not likely to encounter any, but again if you do, that's what that buffer zone on either side of him's for. And all three of 'em are feelin' pretty lucky to have it, I can tell you that.
Okay. Now if things stay like this...
If things stay like this, you're fine - and if this were some small commuter airport, y'know late at night or somethin', then these guys could possibly even be home free. But we're talkin' Miami International here, this is the big time, we're talking about 747's, DC-10's, the big jumbo jets dumpin' off three- four hundred people at a clip. So everybody's gonna be next to somebody, which is the last thing any of these guys want. You're in a critical mass situation, and this is where a lotta mistakes get made.
Which brings us to Guy Number Four. Here he comes --
-- and there he goes... Guy #4 spins around and leaves. John and Dave watch; then.
Now one thing that I know we're going to get asked, John, especially from women, is whether, as guys, we're aware of how utterly stupid this kind of behavior really is.
Well I think we know, Dave. Don't you think we know?
I think we do.
We did that.
If there's anything that causes more anguish in a guy than sports anguish, and public restroom anguish, and hardware store anguish, it's the day that he realizes that somehow his life is half over now, and no matter what he tries to tell himself, he's not young anymore and he's never going to be young again.  And as any guy'll tell you - it sucks.
I got used to having the Beatles and Stones called 'classic rock.' Then I heard Elvis Costello on an Oldies station. I figured, okay - who cares - at least it's on somewhere. But then I hear "London Calling," on Muzak. By the Clash. On Muzak.
The way I see it, it's like menopause, right? Except men get it different. It doesn't show, y'see? The cramps don't come, the hot and cold flashes, and you don't have your magazines and drug stores filled with helpful stuff to do about it. But something comes, and it hits every guy who's living whether he likes it or not. Whether he knows it or not. Guy can lose his bleepin' mind if he doesn't watch out. He gets a mirror to show Dave the back. Gives him time to get philosophical.
But you know? Maybe it's for the better. Maybe whoever designed all this, was afraid to let the men in on what was gonna be happening. Like if we knew, we'd bail or something. You know, ahead of time.
I'm just telling you what I see. Every lousy day. A guy'll come in and sit down, right where you are. He loosens up a little and then it comes. The road not taken. Unexamined choices. An unfulfilled life. And other guys, they'll come in and don't say a word. The ones who just stare at the mirror.
That sounds pretty bleak.
But now that men aren't doing that, there's a lot more shit up ahead, and none of it looks good so they go freak out and make a mess of things -- they'll quit their jobs or walk out on their marriages or make some other idiot grandstand move. None of them are happy and every single one of them wishes he did something else with his life and can't figure out how it got this way. Every single one of them.
.therefore please be advised that in reference to the aforementioned subject matter, as per the original agreement dated 7 March Two Thousand, -- His Secretary stops writing. Waits.
...7 March Two Thousand...
Um. You said that already.
 I started here on the 7th of March. Fifteen years ago...
Oh. Well - Happy Anni--
What the hell am I doing. Why did I even think this would be a good idea -- to work my ass off every single day of my life? So I could come in here and dictate letters like this?
They're not all like this. You do a lot of good...
And what does it get me -- a twin- turbo convertible that I don't even get to drive, because I'm always traveling and renting shitbox cars in other cities where all I do is take clients out to lunch and tell them how to negotiate their golden parachutes? You ever sit in the driver's seat of one of those renta cars?
Well my husband usually does the --
Brand new cars, not even two thousand miles on them, and already they drive like camels. The seat's got no cushion left already, and you're lucky if you don't need a chiropractor after twenty minutes in one. What do people do in those things?
Maybe I could get you something. You want something?
Yeah. I want something. I want the number of that hang-gliding place out on Route 33.
You want to go hang gliding?
I want to teach hang gliding.
I'm sorry. I didn't know you did that.
I don't do that. I want to do that. I've always wanted to do that, and lots of other things too -- only I'm stuck doing this all day long. And I don't even know what this is half the time, just that I have to spend every waking hour doing it. So you tell me -- where the hell does hang gliding fit into that.
Um. Saturdays?
Give me a break.
 Where are you going?
I should have done this a long time ago.
What about the letter?
Put in the usual bullshit. Nobody's gonna read it anyway. He's gone. She sits there.
Hi!
Sorry. We're closed.
 -- It's two thirty in the afternoon.
Hey. I don't make the rules.
Aren't you the owner?
You're right. I do make the rules. We're closed.
 Look, there has to -- I really want to learn this -- I just quit my job to learn this.
Be my guest - learn it. He kicks the frame again, walks off. The Lawyer watches.
How can you do this? This is the perfect job!
Yeah right. Driving around in a rusted worthless pickup truck that's about to be repossessed anyway, while a guy like you, my own age, is going around in a Porsche Carrera.
But you get to fly.
No, you get to fly. I get to hoof this shit up and down these godforsaken hilltops listening to stockbrokers brag about getting lap dances from college coeds, and charging the whole thing through the company expense account -- while I can't even deduct my blood pressure medication. That's what I get to do. He kicks a rock in the road, which almost feels good enough so he kicks another one -- but this one is buried in the dirt like an iceberg and doesn't budge --
Ahh, SHIT! -- and he falls down hobbling on one knee instead.
Look at this.
You got that right. The Lawyer shakes his head; flips the page.
Hey. (then on Lawyer's look; he shrugs) You don't think he's gonna...
What.
You know. Have to use the --
Glove?  You hurt your knee. He already took the x-rays.
What if something's broken.
Well he's not going in that way. You don't do a rectal to set a guy's leg. Still the guy looks doubtful. The ORTHOPEDIC SURGEON - British, familiar - comes in, with a fresh X-RAY.
Well you've done quite a number on yourself. Want to see?
Why should I. I wouldn't know what the hell I'm looking at. You're the one who went to medical school.
Don't remind me.  What. You think I like this?
The medical profession? Owing my life to the insurance cartel while the rest of the world thinks I'm so stinking rich?
Well.. .aren't you?
Of courseIam - I'm an orthopedic surgeon!Ijust don't like people assumingit!
And this -- I am so sick of this bloody thing I can't even tell you! Because every time it goes off it means I have to stop doing one thing I don't want to be doing, and start doing another thing I don't want to be doing. You call that a life? They look at him. Don't know what to say.
-- Let me show you something. (puts down the x-ray, goes to a drawer) I've been working on this during my free time. Not like I get any. He gets an accordion-style envelope; takes out a REAM OF TYPED PAGES. Hands it over to Johnny Lake.
What is it?
What is it? It's a screenplay! This'll blow the lid off the orthopedic surgery industry! Look - look here -- (takes it back; flips
-- no wait, this part's better. No -- here! Here you go. Read this and tell me if you don't --
Then the BARTENDER FROM BEFORE comes out, storms past them and throws his rag down hard as he gets the hell out of there and away from that shit job. As Dave walks into frame, starts over to his car.
Okay! Well it looks like it's time to talk about sex.
Will you knock it off?
For the sake of any younger viewers who might still be paying attention, during this next segment we will be using certain euphemisms to describe a natural and wonderful thing that happens among grownups - grownups besides your parents, that is.
Probably the fastest growing sector of the U.S. economy is the sector that conducts surveys asking women
what is wrong with men. And in all those surveys, there is one main area that shows up constantly at the top of the charts. (he stops, pulls a
-- Euphemisms.
when I say "euphemisms," I of course am not suggesting that guys don't have them. Guys have plenty of euphemisms. Most guys have more euphemisms in a single day - and here I am thinking of a day that occurred in the summer between ninth and tenth grades - than some women have in a lifetime - or longer, in the case of certain Math Teachers.
It all goes back to a time, millions of years ago, when primitive males often had to complete their part of the equation quickly and right away stand ready to fight off attackers.
Today, however, women want euphemisms too -- and this ability in males is no longer as prized as it once was.
In fact, when modern women describe the qualities they're looking for in the ideal man, the phrase "a real fast shooter" is usually pretty far down the list.
one technique for holding back the inevitable, is when the guy - just when he is about to have his euphemism - will hurl himself violently into an iron bed railing, and raise a lump on his head the size of a golf ball.
There's nothing there!
In cases where there aren't any iron railings, a good backup technique can be found right on the end of the cold wet nose of the trusted family dog. CAMERA PANS to the window where we hear:
Yes...yes...
.yesyesyesyes...yesyesyesyes...
.just hold on...yes...
.yesyesyesyesYEEE00000WWWW!!! CAMERA PANS back to Dave.
There are also mental techniques --
One of the most time honored and reliable mental delaying styles, is the Baseball Method --  -- how's it going, Champ. Roger pokes his head out of the blanket; stays active from the neck down.
Oh - yeah hi.
then to Dave) Well, the baseball thing. I mean a while ago I was into that - big time. You know, fooling around with different lineups, mixing up the batting order - like thinking about what would happen if you took your cleanup guy and made him eighth or something -- just something stupid like that, you know? Stuff you'd never really do.
And that did the trick.
Oh hell yeah. I mean I could go all night - literally all night - just shuffling my pitching staff around, or thinking about who I might try and sign at the winter meetings. Hang on -- He goes under the blanket; pays more attention to Elaine... then comes back.
The thing is, it got stale. And I found after a while I wasn't enjoying sex or baseball that much. And you don't want to mess with that stuff.
Math problems.
Really?  You mean like if a train leaves Chicago at one o'clock and another train leaves Denver at two o'clock and they're going at different speeds?
 I can't do train ones. I always end up imagining this beautiful girl on the train - and it makes things even worse. Elaine stops. Pops her head out.
what beautiful girl.
-- You, Elaine. The girl on the train is always you.
Oh, Roger...
As you can see, a lot of guys are making a tremendous effort here - and yet, according to certain standards they are still, basically, lame as hell on almost every single count. The reason for this is simple: women set the standards.  And not just bedroom standards -- all standards. Because women invented standards. Remember the Dawn of Guys?
I've been thinking. We need some standards around here.
What are standards?
Standards are like rules. Things they'll have to do. And things they'll have to stop doing.
How about "no leaving your dirty smelly loincloths wherever you feel like it, and expecting me to do something about it?" Can that be a standard?
That can be one of the first.
There are all kinds of things we can get them to do.
How? They're stronger than we are.
They smell stronger maybe.
Of the men, or the rotten fish?
There's a difference? More laughing; then they turn back to Primate Elaine.
But how will we make them go along? Most of them can't even remember which cave to come home to every night. How are they going to remember rules?
We'll give them a Look.
A look?
A special look. A 'Certain Look.'
But we look at them every day. And they still do whatever they want.
 I've been working on this. Watch. She turns to Primate Blonde Woman, who is holding a gourd. On the Look, the Blonde drops the gourd.
See? And she wasn't even doing anything. Agreements and "Wows" go all around.
Now who's with me.
What are you doing later.
I don't know. Probably just stare at the fire.
A bunch of us are going over to Primate Blonde Woman's cave to see what she does with those gourds. Want to come?
-- Can't. Primate Elaine's ancestors are still here.
Bummer.
Tell me about it.
I don't get it. What was wrong with the other one.
This one's better. It's an upgrade.
An 'upgrade.' An improvement on a previous design.
 The guy said there are newer ones coming out that'll make even this one look primitive. They're getting lighter and rounder every epoch.
Primate Discount Manny.
Dad.  I just wanted to know what the difference is between this one and the one you had. You were so excited about it when you got it, and now you've gotten rid of it -- and the only difference I can see is where this one has these markings painted on. She holds it up; something like BASEBALL SEAMS going around.
Those make it so it travels better.
Painted on?  -- What'd it cost you.
Nothing. A couple wildebeeste steaks and handful of seeds of some kind.
Who's a bum. Are you calling me a bum?
Oh yeah? Who do you think killed your dinner tonight?
Look. Just take it back. Please.
But I can't do that! All sales are final!
You can explain it to him. Tell him he can keep the steaks, but we want the seeds back.
 Look will you both stop?  Just take this back. All right?
This is totally unreasonable!
-- I'll take it back. She smiles. FREEZE IMAGE.
This is basically where we stand today. The only difference is, we have way more standards. (gives the ROCK to a KID passing by) There are social standards, about being sensitive - remembering anniversaries, listening during conversations, not eating soup with your hands, or sitting around in your underwear when company's over.
-- And there are thousands of standards for domestic life, involving even more totally un-guy concepts -- like curtains, bedspreads, napkins, special hangers, little soaps shaped like fruit, and decorative boxes that hold tissues that already come in a box. While guys, left on their own in the wild, will develop lifestyles that don't involve any of these things.
I know just what this place needs.
of course, even by the most basic standards, these two are living like savages. But they honestly don't know this -- because Guys, in their natural state, aren't any more aware of domestic standards than a trout would be aware of the stock market. And this causes women a lot of concern.
Take laundry. To him his clean clothes are ready when he's ready to go get them. And they can dry the rest of the way in the drawer. But they don't dry the rest of the way in the drawer, they sit there in damp musty unfolded balls and he doesn't even mind, and I can't figure that out. What is the matter with folding something? What is the matter with waiting for it to be dry?
Laundry's a big issue - and a deep and puzzling mystery to guys. My own wife Michelle, for instance, is an accomplished sportswriter and mother of an extremely young child, yet she is still able to maintain a vigorous clothes-cleaning regimen bordering on the super-human. And I'm not allowed near the stuff.
(comes in with more
He's right. She dumps out the clothes, sees what he's doing and takes over, doing it better. Dave picks up a random BLOUSE, shows a LABEL with lots of printing on it.
These are clearly secret codes, that women intuitively understand but cannot adequately explain -- just like how a lot of guys understand the Infield Fly Rule, without being able to explain that.
I can explain the Infield Fly Rule.
Because you're special, Sweetheart.
Sometimes I think they're just like tapeworms. You know? I mean tapeworms are just tapeworms - that's all they are, and all they'll ever be. They're just these repulsive little parasitic beasts and nobody expects anything different from them - because people know that's their nature. And it's the same way with guys - although a tapeworm's more likely to help clean out the garage.
They sleep with your sister and wonder what's wrong with that.
They will make a game out of anything. A contest out of anything. Give them a grain of sand and they will figure out some game with it.
And they'll argue over the rules.
 They leave their dirty dishes everywhere. I can't believe the places I'll find some crusted over cereal bowl with yuckola blobs of God knows what in them. And the thing is, from his point of view? They really do get cleaned by magic! Because I can't take seeing them sit there, so I clean them.
 I just get him to wash my car when that stuff happens.
Sweetheart he could wash my car with his tongue and it still wouldn't make up for where I find those dishes sometimes.
 So now that we've heard your thoughts. The frustration, the exasperation... the obvious question comes to mind: Why go through it? Why have guys in your life at all? They look at him.
-- You mean as a choice? You mean like a mature adult choice to have a guy in your life? In spite of everything?
Like trying to borrow money from you, after you've broken up, so he can buy something for his new girlfriend? And wondering what the problem was with that? I mean like really not knowing? Dave looks at her. They all do. Until --
I'll tell you why. There is no good reason, that's why. The others turn, look her way.
-- I mean don't get me wrong. They really can be fun. You know, like a big stupid dog can be fun. I mean not everything has to be so serious in life. You want to be able to do more with someone than just read book reviews together - which is something a guy would never do anyway. (then as the others
But what a guy will do? Is at eleven o'clock at night he'll show up at your door and bring cheese steaks. And he doesn't care that you look all rumply and dreadful from not expecting anyone. He might not even remember that you're a vegetarian and don't eat cheese steaks -- but that doesn't really matter either. Because the point is he wanted one, and he can't come out and say it but he didn't want to eat it alone.
And you're the person he thought of.
 I can't tell you what that feels like, when they do that.  I swear, if they knew how adorable they are sometimes, they'd be dangerous. I mean -- more dangerous. The other Girls think about that. Considering...
-- Bullshit. They're tapeworms. The rest of them agree and all high-five her. Dave leans back from the fray, turns to the CAMERA.
I think it's time for the conclusion now.
Well now you know where things stand. You've learned a little bit about guys, and the critical roles they've played in the past and in modern society today. And for better or worse, they're here with us to stay -- so the best thing you can do about it, is continue to learn about them - by coming to see this movie lots and lots of times, and bringing more and more of your friends back every time you do. Because the more people that understand guys, the better for everyone. And the more people that -- (as the Lawyer launches
Off he goes. . .right out of frame, and --
Now these are the kinda end credits you like to see. You got the final update thing goin', where you find out how all the characters you've been watchin' are gonna turn out. You got good music, a lively kinda feel, and maybe most of all, the movie itself isn't too long -- He reacts now, looking down at the TAIL CREDITS as they start speeding up.
-- that's how you know it's a real movie, in my book. That's how you know it's not some boring kinda art piece made by these tortured head case kids fresh outta film school -- you're not gonna come outta this theater talkin' about symbolism, or the use of darkness and light or any kinda mumbo-jumbo like that -- you come out of this movie and you're laughin'. And that's what I like in a movie - a movie that's funny but it doesn't take forever, you know? You still got some time to do somethin' after, maybe go get somethin' to eat, y'know? Because the guys behind the thing knew enough not to drag on and on and --
Hey what do you know? We got through the whole entire thing without saying "booger."
