Reports are coming in from all over the Empire -- from all over the world. The Government have not yet issued a statement, but there seems to be no question that there actually is a large, unidentified object circling the earth at incredible speed.
 We still don't know what it is or where it's from - but we do know there's something there. It's been tracked around the world by radar traveling at a rate of four thousand miles an hour.
They're here! They're here!
 Get me the Chief of Staff.
I want to speak to the President.  I'm sorry -- you'll have to interrupt him.
Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, this is Drew Pearson. We bring you this special radio-television broadcast to give you the latest information on the landing of the "space ship" in Washington.
Government and Defense Department officials are concerned by reports of panic in several large Eastern cities. I am authorized to assure you that so far there is no reasonable cause for alarm. The rumors of invading armies and mass destruction are based on hysteria and are absolutely false. I repeat -- these rumors are absolutely false!
The ship, designed for travel outside the earth's atmosphere, landed in Washington today at 3:47 p.m., Eastern Standard Time. We still don't know where it came from, but I can reveal that military leaders are considering two possibilities; that it came from some unfriendly power here on earth -- or that it actually arrived from another planet.
 The ship is resting exactly where it landed two hours ago, and there has been no sign of life from inside it.
 Troops have been rushed from Fort Myer and they have formed a cordon around the ship.
 They are supported by machine guns, tanks and artillery.
 Behind police lines, there is a large crowd of curiosity seekers.
 As you can see for yourself, the Army has taken every precaution to meet whatever the situation may require. Every eye -- every weapon -- is trained on the ship. It's been this way for two hours and the tension--
Just a minute, ladies and gentlemen! I think I see something moving!
We have come to visit you in peace -- and with good will.
Gort! Deglet ovrosco!
It was a gift. For your President. (glances at the broken object ruefully) With this he could have studied life on other planets.
 Is he all right?
Send for an ambulance. Get him to Walter Reed Hospital right away.
Yes, sir.
 How is he?
He's all right, General... Blood pressure's a little high, but it could be aggravation.
 Can't blame him. I always get mad when somebody shoots me.
He still wants to see the President.
 We informed the White House over an hour ago.
 Didn't drop any hints about where he's from, did he?
No, sir, he didn't.
Excuse me.  What about the reporters, Colonel? They're swarming all over the lobby.
 Tell them there won't be any statement tonight.
Yes, sir. (glancing down the corridor) Mr. Harley's here from the White House.
General --
 Right in there, Mr. Harley.
My name is Harley -- Secretary to the President (Klaatu continues to study him silently) I've been told that you speak our language -- that your name is Mr. Klaatu.
 Just Klaatu.
The President asked me to convey his deepest apologies for what has happened. We all feel--
 Sit down, Mr. Harley.
I'm sure I don't have to point out that your arrival was something of a surprise. (getting a little smile from Klaatu, he is encouraged to do some fishing) Had you been traveling long?
About five months -- your months.
You must have come a long way.
About 250 million of your miles.
Naturally we're very curious to know where it is you come from.
 From another planet. Let's just say that we're neighbors.
It's rather difficult for us to think of another planet as a neighbor.
I'm afraid, in the present situation you'll have to learn to think that way.
 The present situation?
I mean the reasons for my coming here.
 We're very curious about that, too. Would you care to talk about it?
I'd be glad to. (noticing that Harley is settling himself expectantly) Not now, of course -- with you alone.
Perhaps you'd rather discuss it personally with the President--
 This is not a personal matter, Mr. Harley. It concerns all the people on your planet.
 I -- I'm not sure I understand--
I want to meet with representatives from all the nations of the Earth.
 I'm afraid that would be a little awkward. It's -- it's completely without precedent. And there are practical considerations -- the time involved -- the enormous distances.
 I traveled 250 million miles. What about your United Nations?
 You know about the United Nations?
We've been monitoring your radio broadcasts for a good many years. That's how we learned your languages. Lately, we've been getting your television also.
 You must have a rather strange impression of us.
 The first two years of television we were convinced that all you did was wrestle.
I'm sure you recognize from our broad- casts the evil forces that have produced the tension in our world. Surely you would agree--
 I am not concerned, Mr. Harley, with the internal affairs of your planet. I consider that to be your business -- not mine.
I was only hoping to make you understand.
 My mission here is not to solve your petty squabbles. It concerns the existence of every last creature who lives on Earth.
 Perhaps if you could explain a little--
I intend to explain. To all the nations -- simultaneously. (his manner precludes opposition) How do we proceed, Mr. Harley?
 We could call a special meeting of the General Assembly... But of course the UN doesn't represent all of the nations.
Then why not a meeting of all the Chiefs of State?
 Believe me, you don't understand. They wouldn't sit down at the same table.
I don't want to resort to threats, Mr. Harley. I simply tell you bluntly that the future of your planet is at stake... I suggest you transmit that message to the nations of the Earth.
I will make that recommendation to the President. (he picks up his brief case and hat) I must tell you in all honesty that I'm extremely dubious about the results.
 Apparently I'm not as cynical about Earth's people as you are.
I've been dealing in Earth's politics a good deal longer than you have.  Goodnight, sir.
Getting any place, Sergeant?
 No, sir. (shaking his head in annoyance) Beats me, General. I saw that ramp come out of the side of the ship -- right here. Now I can't even find a crack!
What's the report, Carlson?
 We've tried everything from a blowtorch to a diamond drill.
 What about him?
He's made out of the same stuff.
Has he moved?
No sir. Not an inch
This is the toughest material I ever saw, General. For hardness and strength, it's out of this world.
 I can tell you officially - that's where it came from.
The skeletal structure is completely normal.  Same for the major organs - heart, liver, spleen, kidneys.
And the lungs are the same as ours. Must mean a similar atmosphere -- similar pressure. (nodding, toward Klaatu's room) How old do you think he is?
Oh, I'd say forty-five.
 He told me this morning when I examined him. He's seventy-eight.
I don't believe it.
Their life expectancy is a hundred and thirty.
How does he explain that?
He says their medicine is that much more advanced. (the major stares at him blankly) He was very nice about it. But he made me feel like a third-class witch doctor.
I took a bullet out of that man's arm yesterday.
What about it?
 I just examined the wound and it's all healed.
What does he say about it?
Said he put some salve on it -- some stuff he had with him. (shows them a small, odd-looking tube in his hand)
What are you going to do with it?
Take it downstairs and have it analyzed. (on his way to the door, shaking his head) Then I don't know whether I'll just get drunk or give up the practice of medicine.
Afternoon, Mr. Harley.
Afternoon, gentlemen.
Good afternoon. (surprised not to find him in bed) I'm glad to see you up and around.
Thank you... Have you any news?
Not very good news, I'm afraid. (digs into his briefcase for some papers) The President accepted your suggestion and cabled the invitations for a meeting last night.  Let me read you some of the replies. (he selects a cable and reads) "The Premier wishes to inform the Government of the United States that it will be impossible for him to attend the meeting suggested by the President unless the meeting is held in Moscow." (with a grimly-pointed glance at Klaatu, Harley reads another cable) "The suggestion of the President regarding the possibility of a meeting in Moscow would be unacceptable to Her Majesty's Government at the present time. Representation could be sent only if the meeting were held in Washington." (he looks up at Klaatu and shrugs) Well -- there you have it.
I tried to make you understand. The suspicions -- the jealousies -- the mistrust-- (uneasily, under Klaatu's level gaze) Surely you realize that my government has done everything in its power--
It's not your government I'm thinking about. It's your world.
Now that you understand the situation more clearly, perhaps you'd like to discuss the matter with the President
 I will not speak to any one nation or group of nations.  I don't intend to add my contribution to your childish jealousies and suspicions.
Our problems are very complex, Mr. Klaatu. You mustn't judge us too harshly.
I can judge only by what I see.
Your impatience is quite understandable.
 I am impatient with stupidity. My people have learned to live without it.
 I'm afraid my people haven't.  I'm very sorry -- I wish it were otherwise.
Before making any decisions, I think I should get out among your people -- become familiar with the basis for these strange, unreasoning attitudes.
Under the circumstances I'm afraid that will be impossible.
I must ask that you don't attempt to leave the hospital. Our military people have insisted on this. I'm sure you'll understand.
 --authorities at Walter Reed Hospital refused to comment on how he managed to escape, or what measures might be taken to apprehend him.
--while the President made no effort to minimize the crisis, he urged people all over the country to remain calm. He said the entire facilities of FBI and other federal agencies are being bought to bear. He pointed out, however, that this is no ordinary man hunt. He warned we may be up against powers that are beyond our control.
 I can't stand any more of this. It's enough to drive a person crazy.
Hey, Mom -- who's that?
 I -- I'm sorry. What is it you want?
My name is Carpenter. I'm looking for a room.
Are you an FBI man?
No -- I'm afraid not.
Bet he is, Mom. Bet he's out looking for that space man.
 I think we've all been hearing too much about "space men."
 Mr. and Mrs. Barley -- and Mr. Krull... I'm Mrs. Crockett.
 I have a very nice room on the second floor.
Can I help you look for the space man? Can I?  I know what he looks like! He's got a square head -- and, three great big eyes!
 That's enough, Bobby. I think it's time you went to bed.
 We mustn't annoy Mr. Carpenter -- or he won't want to stay here. She goes on into the hall, followed by Klaatu, who has exchanged a polite smile with Helen.
He's really a dear little boy -- and quiet as a mouse. (with a shrewd, chatty smile) You're a long way from home, aren't you, Mr. Carpenter?
How did you know?
 Oh, I can tell a New England accent a mile away.
--and so, this Sunday morning, we ask the question that's been plaguing; the entire nation for two days now: "Where is this creature and what is he up to?" If he can build a space ship that can fly to Earth -- and a robot that can destroy our tanks and guns -- what other terrors can he unleash at will? ...Obviously we must find this monster. We must track him down like a wild animal and destroy him.
But where would such a creature hide himself? Would he disappear into the north woods? Or would he slither off into the sewers of some great city?
There is grave danger -- everyone agrees to that. The question is what can we do to protect ourselves? What measures can we take that will--
George, I wish you'd turn that radio off. I'm trying to concentrate.
 Why doesn't the Government do something -- that's what I want to know.
 What can they do? They're only people -- Just like us.
People my foot! They're Democrats!
It's enough to give you the shakes. He's got that robot standing there -- ten-foot tall -- just waiting for orders to destroy us.
 This space man -- or whatever he is. We automatically assume he's a menace... Maybe he isn't at all.
 Then what's he hiding for? Why doesn't he come out in the open?
Yeah.  Like the fella says: "What's he up to?"
Maybe he's afraid.
 He's afraid!
After all, he was shot the moment he landed here. (she pauses for a moment thoughtfully) I was just wondering what I would do.
 Perhaps before deciding on a course of action, you'd want to know more about the people here -- to orient yourself in a strange environment.
 There's nothing strange about Washington, Mr. Carpenter.
 A person from another planet might disagree with you.
If you want my opinion, he came from right here on Earth. (with significant emphasis) And you know where I mean.
They wouldn't come in a space ship. They'd come in airplanes.
 I wouldn't be so sure about that.
 Stands to reason that fella wants some thing or he wouldn't be here.  That make sense, Carpenter?
I must admit I'm a little confused.
Mrs. Benson -- Mr. Stevens is here to see you.
Oh -- thank you.
Finish your coffee, George. I told the Carsons we'd be there at eleven.
 Good morning.
We're all set. I picked up some sandwiches and put gas in the car. And the radio's still busted, so me can forget about the space man for today.
 There's only one thing -- I haven't been able to arrange for anyone to stay with Bobby.  I don't suppose we could take him with us?
 Well, we could--
There's always somebody here, but today of course they've all got plans.
I haven't any plans.
I'd be glad to spend the day with him -- if you'd let me.
 Say, that'll be great! Wouldn't it, Helen.
 I'm sorry Mr. Carpenter -- this is Tom Stevens.
Bobby and I had a fine time yesterday afternoon. We talked -- and listened to the radio.  I thought today he might show me around the city.
 Suppose I ask Bobby how he feels about it.
 Those are great words. (with an air of discovery) He must have been a great man.
That's the kind of man I'd like to talk to.
Bobby -- who's the greatest man in America today?
 Gee -- I don't know... The space man, I guess.
 I was speaking of earth men. I meant the greatest philosopher -- the greatest thinker.
You mean the smartest man in the whole world?
Yes -- that would do nicely.
 Well -- Professor Barnhardt, I guess. He's the greatest scientist in the world.
 He lives here in Washington, doesn't he?
Sure. Right near where my mother works.
Where is that?
Department of Commerce. She's a secretary.  They have a man they call the Secretary, but he isn't at all. My mother's a real secretary. (after a moment; eagerly) Mr. Carpenter -- now can we go see the space ship?
Boy, I'll bet he's strong. I bet he could knock down a whole building.
 I shouldn't be at all surprised.
 Gee, I'd like to get inside and see how it works. What do you think makes it go?
 Well -- atomic power, I would imagine.
 I thought that was only for bombs.
No. It's for a lot of other things, too.
You think it can go faster than an F- 36?
Yes -- I think so.
About a thousand miles an hour?
Maybe four thousand miles an hour. And outside the Earth's atmosphere a good deal faster.
 Gee! How could they make a landing?
Well -- there are several ways to reduce landing speed. You see, the velocity--
 Keep goin', Mister. He was fallin' for it.
You think they'll ever find him?
 I don't know, Bobby. I'm inclined to doubt it.
 Mr. Carpenter -- what does velocity mean?
 Velocity is the time rate of change of position.
I'll bet that's the way Professor Barnhardt talks.
Bobby -- I have an idea. Let's go see Professor Barnhardt and find out how he talks.
 You're just kidding, aren't you?
Wouldn't you like to meet him?
Well, sure I would, but -- (he's to be not going taken in) Aw, I'll bet you'd be scared.
 We can scare him more than he can scare us.
I like you, Mr. Carpenter. You're a real screwball.
 Gee -- maybe he isn't home.
Betcha this is where he works--
 What does that mean?
It's a problem in celestial mechanics.
Bet he's the only one in the world knows the answer.
 He doesn't know the answer. And he'll never get it that way.
We probably couldn't get to see him even if he was home.
 Hey -- where you going?
If he's that difficult to see, perhaps we ought to leave a calling card.
What are you doing in here?
 How dare you write on that blackboard!  Do you realize the Professor has been working on that problem for weeks?
 He'll catch on to it in no time now.
 How did you get in here? And what do you want?
We came to see Professor Barnhardt.
Well, he's not here. And he won't be back till this evening.  I think you'd better leave now. Unruffled, Klaatu turns to the desk and scribbles something on a scratch pad. He tears off the piece of paper and hands it to Hilda.
You might keep this.  I think the professor will want to get in touch with me.
 I wouldn't erase that. The Professor needs it very badly.
--no, Sergeant, there was no classified material around, but I have instructions to report anything unusual to the police... Yes -- I'm Professor Barnhardt's secretary. (consulting the paper in her hand) The man's name is Carpenter -- and he lives at 1615 St. Street, N.W... Yes, that's right--
That's my father. (Klaatu glances at the boy, then nods understandingly) He was killed at a place called Anzio.
 Did all these people die in wars?
 Sure. Didn't you ever hear of Arlington Cemetery?
No -- I'm afraid not.
 Mr. Carpenter" -- you don't seem to know about anything.
 I'll tell you, Bobby -- I've been away for a long time. Very far away.
Is it different where you've been? (indicating the cemetery) Don't they have places like this?
 They have cemeteries. But not like this one... You see, they don't have any wars.
Gee -- that's a good idea.
What would you like to do this afternoon?
Go to the movies.
All right.
 No foolin'? Will you?
Certainly.  Tell me, Bobby -- do you have to have money to go there?
 I've got some money. My mother gave me two dollars.
No -- I want to take you to the movies. (he takes some objects out of his pocket) Do you think they'd accept these?
Gee -- those look like diamonds!
Some places that's what people use for money. They're easy to carry -- and they don't wear out.
 Bet they're worth about a million dollars.
Would you give me your two dollars for a couple of them?
 Well, sure, but--
 Okay.
Let's not say anything to my mother about this, Mr. Carpenter.
 Why not, Bobby?
 She doesn't like me to steal from people.
Mr. Carpenter come home yet?
 Yeah -- he's right inside.
Tell him I'd like to see him.
 Mr. Carpenter--!  Come on in.
Your name Carpenter?
 Oh -- I suppose Professor Barnhardt's looking far me.
 I been looking for you all afternoon.
 It was a wonderful day.
You still haven't answered my question.
 You know how I feel, Tom. I just want to think it over.
The boss is leaving for Chicago tomorrow. If I could tell him I was getting married -- with two dependents--
 You're a good salesman -- but I've got to think about it.
A good insurance salesman wouldn't give you time to think.
'Night.
Hi Mom!
Hello, darling. (she kisses Bobby, then turns questioningly to Klaatu and the Detective) Good evening, Mr. Carpenter.
Mrs. Benson -- this is Mr. Brady.
 Mr. Brady's a cop.
 Did you have a nice day, dear?
 Boy, we had a swell time. Didn't we, Mr. Carpenter?
We certainly did.
We went to the movies -- and we had ice cream cones -- and we went to see Daddy--
 I don't know how to thank you.
I enjoyed every minute of it.
 We better get goin', Mr. Carpenter.
Aw, gee -- we didn't finish our story.
We'll finish it tomorrow... Goodnight, Bobby.
 Goodnight.
Come on, Bobby. Time to go to bed.
 Mom -- why does Mr. Carpenter have to go down to the police station?
I -- I don't know, dear... Perhaps there's some mistake.
We sure had fun today. We saw the space ship and we went to see Professor Barnhardt -- and--
 Professor Barnhardt.
 Yeah, sure. Mom, do I have to go to school tomorrow?
Of course, dear.
Aw, gee, Mom -- I had plans to play with Mr. Carpenter.
 B.M. Alberts -- no prior arrests.
 No identification? (the man shakes his head dully) Send him over to G-2.
My wife just arrived with my identification.
That'll be all, Mr. Baxter. Sorry to bother you... Next.
Cappo, John C?  Two priors -- one for petty theft -- one for shoplifting.
 Okay, Jonny -- you can go.
 Sometimes a record comes in handy. 
The Professor's secretary says she found you in Barnhardt's room, making marks on his blackboard.
I was only trying to be helpful. He was having difficulty with a problem.
 Oh, I see. He was having trouble and you were helping him out.
 That's right.
 I suppose you know that Barnhardt does a lot of secret work for the Army.
In this case the secret wouldn't be worth much. He doesn't know the answer himself.
 But I suppose you know the answer.
 It's really quite simple... The three- body problem, you know.
Your name's Carpenter -- that right?  Any identification, Mr. Carpenter? Driver's license -- social security number?
No -- I'm afraid not.
Well, how do I know who you are?
 You don't.
Excuse me, Lieutenant --  The Doc says this man needs treatment right away.
What's the story?
Some fella caught him lookin' in a window and figured he was the space man. The whole neighborhood went crazy and they ganged up on him. Would have killed him if we hadn't come along... Turns out he was just a prowler.
Okay -- book him and get him fixed up. (the cops nods and goes, and the Lieutenant growls as he turns back to Klaatu and the Detective) Looks like everybody's goin' nuts.
 They would have killed this man?
 People get hysterical enough, they do anything.  Look, Mr. Carpenter -- if you can't identify yourself, I got to send you over to the Army.
 How long will that take?
They can tell right away. They've got a couple of doctors who saw this man in the hospital.  Take him over to G2.
It's very important, Lieutenant, that I see Professor Barnhardt.
Come on, Mr. Carpenter--
May I suggest that you call the Professor?
 Get going, will you, Brady -- before I get mad!
 Wait a minute, Brady-- (indicating orders in his hand) The Captain here's got orders from General Cutler to take this man over to Professor Barnhardt.
 Will you come with me, Sir?
Sorry to trouble you, Lieutenant.
This is the man you wanted to see, Professor.
 Thank you, Captain.
I'll wait outside.
You wrote this?
 It was a clumsy way to introduce myself -- but I understand you're a difficult man to see. (glancing at the blackboard reproachfully) I thought you'd have the solution by this time.
Not yet. That's why I wanted to see you.
All you have to do now is substitute this expression-- (pointing to a specific place) --at this point.
 Yes -- that will reproduce the first- order terms. But what about the effect of the other terms?
Almost negligible... With variation of parameters, this is the answer.
How can you be so sure? Have you tested this theory?
 I find it works well enough to get me from one planet to another. (Barnhardt stares at him blankly) I understand you've called a meeting to study our space ship.
As though unsure of what he's heard) Yes -- yes, I have.
My name is Klaatu. (noting that Barnhardt's expression is changing from amazement to incredulity) I spent two days at your Walter Reed Hospital. Room 309. My doctor's name was Major White -- and I had a very attractive nurse called Ruth, who's getting married next Wednesday. (Klaatu waits for this to sink in, then speaks with quiet authority) If you are not interested -- or if you intend to turn me over to your Army -- we needn't waste any more time.
 You can go now, Captain. Please thank General Cutler and tell him -- tell him that I know this gentleman.
 You have faith, Professor Barnhardt
It isn't faith that makes good science, Mr. Klaatu. Its curiosity. (unable to conceal his interest) Sit down, please. I have several thousand questions to ask you.
 I would like to explain something of my mission here.
That was my first question.
 It was my intention to discuss this officially -- with all the nations of the Earth -- but I was not allowed the Opportunity. I have come to realize since that your mutual fears and suspicions are merely the normal reactions of a primitive society.  We know from scientific observation that you have discovered a rudimentary kind of atomic energy. We also know that you are experimenting with rockets.
Yes -- that is true.
In the hands of a mature civilization, these would not be considered weapons of aggression. But in the hands of your people-- (he shrugs and shakes his head) We've observed your aggressive tendencies, and we don't trust you with such power.
 If you mean that you are afraid of us--
 We discarded instruments like this many centuries ago.  So long as you were limited to fighting among yourselves -- with your primitive tanks and planes -- we were unconcerned. But soon you will apply atomic energy to space ships -- and then you become a threat to the peace and security of other planets. That, of course, we cannot tolerate.
 These other planets -- do they have peace and security?
We had our atomic wars -- thousands of years ago.  After that we fought with bows and arrows. Then, slowly, we learned that fighting is no solution -- that aggression leads to chaos.
 We scientists understand this. Even we primitive scientists.  What exactly is the nature of your mission, Mr. Klaatu?
I came here to warn you that, by threatening danger, your planet faces danger -- very grave danger. I am prepared, however, to offer a solution.
Would you care to be more specific?
 What I have to say must be said to all concerned. (with a suggestion of deference to Barnhardt) It is too important to be entrusted to any individual.
I gather that your efforts on the official level were not entirely successful.
 I come to you as a last resort -- and I confess that my patience is wearing thin.  Must I take drastic action in order to get a hearing?
 What -- what sort of action do you mean?
Violent action -- since that seems to be the only thing you people understand.  Leveling the island of Manhattan, perhaps -- or dropping the Rock of Gibraltar into the sea.
Would you be willing to meet with the group of scientists I am calling together?. Perhaps you could explain your mission to them, and they in turn could present it to their various peoples.
 That's what I came to see you about.
It is not enough to have men of science. We scientists are too easily ignored -- or misunderstood. We must get important men from every field. Educators -- philosophers -- church leaders -- men of vision and imagination -- the finest minds in the world.
I leave that in your hands.
You'd have no objection to revealing yourself at this meeting?
No -- not at all.
What about your personal safety in the meantime? What about the Army -- and the police?
My name is Carpenter and I'm a very earthy character living in a respectable boarding house.
 I'm afraid I can't offer you any real protection. I have no influence in cases of inter-planetary conspiracy.
I'm sure I'll be quite safe until the meeting.
 One thing, Mr. Klaatu. Suppose this group should reject your proposals. What is the alternative?
 --eliminated.
Such power exists?
I assure you such power exists.
The people who came to the meeting must be made to realize this. They must understand what is at stake. (after a thoughtful moment, he looks up) You mentioned a demonstration of force--
Yes.
Would such, a demonstration be possible before the meeting?
Yes -- of course.
Something that would dramatize for them and for their people the seriousness of the situation. Something that would affect the entire planet.
 That can easily be arranged.
 I wouldn't want you to harm anybody -- or destroy anything.
 Why don't you leave it to me? I'll think of something.
 Maybe a little demonstration.
 Something dramatic -- but not destructive.  It's quite an interesting problem.  Would day after tomorrow be all right? Say about noon?
Going out, dear?
Yes, I'm waiting for Tom to pick me up.
 Personally, I won't go out after dark these days. (with an attempt at slyness) But then -- I'm not courting, am I?
 Oh -- Mr. Carpenter--!
Everyone seems so-- (he shakes his hands to indicate nervousness)
Jittery is the word.
 Bobby's the only person I know who isn't -- Jittery.
He has his homework to keep him occupied.
 He's a fine boy, Mrs. Benson.
Naturally I think so.
Warm and friendly and intelligent--  You know -- he's the only real friend I've made since I've been here.
 Mr. Carpenter -- this is none of my business, but -- why did that detective come here last night?
 Oh -- they just wanted to ask me a few questions. Bobby and I tried to see Professor Barnhardt in the afternoon, but he wasn't in. Apparently they thought I was looking for secrets of some kind.
Hello--
You ready?
I will be in just a minute.
 The picture starts at eight-fifty.
 I was talking to Mr. Carpenter.
 I hope Mr. Carpenter won't think I'm intruding.
Excuse me. I was just going up to my room.
 Goodnight, Mr. Carpenter.
Have a good time -- both of you.
Why don't you wait in here while I get my things?
 Oh, Tom, that was awful.
 I'm sorry. I guess I'm just tired of hearing about Mr. Carpenter.  I don't like the way he's attached himself to you and Bobby. After all, what do you know about him?
I'll go get my things.
 All you have to remember is, first find the common denominator -- then subtract.
Thanks, Mr. Carpenter.
 I'll say goodnight again.
Mr. Carpenter, I-- (it's too complicated; she can't do it) Goodnight.
 Goodnight, my dear.
Go to bed, darling. You can finish that in the morning.
Okay.
 Bobby -- I think it would be better if we didn't see quite so much of Mr. Carpenter
 Gee, why, Mom? He's my best friend... And he's awful good in arithmetic. He even helps Professor Barnhardt.
Did you and Mr. Carpenter really go to see Professor Barnhardt?
Sure we did! He wasn't there but we went to see him. And Mr. Carpenter showed him how to do his arithmetic.
 Mom -- is there something wrong with Mr. Carpenter?
What do you mean, dear?
I mean -- on account of that policeman last night. (his eyes light up hopefully) You think he's a bank robber, maybe? Or a gangster?
No, dear, of course not. He's a very nice man. I Just think he might prefer to be left alone. Now you get to bed and forget about it.  'Night, darling.
Goodnight. (stopping her in the doorway, his imaginative suspicions mounting) Hey Mom -- why would he want to be alone?
Bobby -- have you a flashlight?
 It's a real Boy Scout flashlight.
What do you want it for, Mr. Carpenter?
 Why -- the light in my room went out. (cutting off further questions) Thank you, Bobby. Goodnight.
 Why don't you come on in for a minute?
Bobby--! What are you doing up at this hour?
 I couldn't go to sleep, Mom. I had to tell you!
Tell me what?
 I followed Mr. Carpenter -- right after you left -- and, gee, Mom, where do you think he went? Right into the space ship!
 Now, Bobby, just a minute--
Honest, Mom, I saw him. It just opened up and he walked right in. And that great big iron man was moving around!
Bobby, you've been dreaming again.
 No, I haven't, Mom. I promise you... I saw it!
Where did you see all this, Bobby?
On the lawn down at the mall -- in that place with the soldiers out front.
 Where were the soldiers all this time?
That robot fella grabbed 'em and dragged 'em inside!  I like Mr. Carpenter -- but I'm scared, Mom.
 Tom, will you ask Mr. Carpenter if he'll come down for a minute.  The room right opposite mine.
Now think back hard. You didn't follow Mr. Carpenter at all, did you? You haven't even been out of the house.
Yes, I have!
 You didn't really see the space ship. You just thought you did.
I'd never call you a liar.
He's not there.  But look what I found in his room
 Is it real?
 Looks real to me.
Mr. Carpenter's got a lot of diamonds. (he digs into his pocket) He gave me a couple of them.
He gave these to you?
 Well, not exactly. I gave him two dollars.
This doesn't make sense... I think the guy's a crook. I never did trust him.
Gee, Mom, do you think maybe he's a diamond smuggler?
 Come on, darling -- we're going up to bed.
I wonder if we ought to--
 Bobby and I have had enough excitement for tonight.
 You think it's all right for you to stay here?
 I've got a good lock on my door.  And Bobby's going to sleep in my room tonight.
Oh, boy -- can I, Mom?
Yes, dear. Come on now. (she happens to look down at his feet. Puzzled, and concerned, she feels his shoes) Bobby, your shoes are soaking!
 Yeah -- the grass was kind of wet.
 Oh -- hello--
May I see you for a minute?
I -- I was Just going to lunch.
 May I walk out with you?
 Mrs. Benson speaking. (recognizing the voice, she glances nervously at Klaatu) Oh, hello...
 I'm at Bleeker's getting an appraisal on that diamond. I thought we might have lunch together.
 I -- I'm afraid I can't -- not right now. Can I talk to you later?. Yes, that'll be fine. 'Bye.
 I saw Bobby this morning before he went to school--
 Yes--?
I want to know what he told you last night.
 I -- I didn't really pay much attention-- (with a nervous little laugh) Bobby has such an active imagination.
 I have a reason for asking this -- a very important reason.
There's another elevator we can use--
 What is it you want?
Before I ask you to be honest with me, perhaps I should be completely honest with you--
 What happened?
 What time is it?
Just twelve.
We'll be stuck here for a little while -- about thirty minutes.
 We could try pushing the other buttons.  I have a flashlight in my purse.
It won't work.
Why not?
 You see -- the electricity's been neutralized -- all over the world.
Bobby was telling the truth -- wasn't he?
My ol' lady was right. We shoulda got a place in the country.
It's that space man -- that's wot it is.
You should see it, Professor Barnhardt! You should go out and see it for yourself!
Thanks -- I'm enjoying it right here.
The whole city has stopped. People are running around like ants!
 What a brilliant idea. I never would have thought of it.
What about the people who are coming to the meeting tonight? Have they all arrived?
 I talked to most of them this morning... They were all very curious about the meeting.
Good. Did you speak to our friend Mr. Carpenter?
 He'll be there at 8:30.
 Tell me, Hilda -- does all this frighten you -- does it make you feel insecure?
Yes, sir -- it certainly does!
 That's good, Hilda. I'm glad.
--as far as we can tell, all power's been cut off everywhere -- with a few exceptions: hospitals, planes in flight -- that sort of thing. I wish I could be more specific but, as you now, all communications are out telephone, radio, cable -- everything.  I can tell you that the President is prepared to declare a state of national emergency. (pausing to let this sink in) Before we start discussing plans, I want a report from Colonel Ryder. What about the robot, Colonel?
When it was discovered last night that the robot had moved, I was directed by the Joint Chiefs to find a means of immobilizing him. We accomplished that this morning by encasing him in a block of KL 93. (he hands a small block of plastic to the General) It's a new plastic material -- stronger than steel.
Is it possible that he's broken out of this stuff?
No, sir. I've Just checked on that. He's locked up tight as a drum.
All right -- that means we concentrate on the man. (to the group with force and authority) Up till now we've agreed on the desirability of capturing this man alive. We can no longer afford to be so particular. We'll get him alive, if possible -- but we must get him!  Is that clear?
Eleanor, did you call the electrician?
 I tried, Mr. Bleeker. But the phone doesn't work, either.
 Well, call the phone company.
 But the phone doesn't work.
Is it worth anything?
I have never seen such a stone. Will you please tell me where it came from?
That's what I wanted you to tell me.
 There are no diamonds like this -- any place in the world.
You sure about that?
 Would you like to sell it?
 No -- no, thanks.
I'd give you a very good price.
 --I've already told you more than I told Professor Barnhardt, because my life, in a sense, is in your hands. I thought if you knew the facts you'd appreciate the importance of my not being -- apprehended, -- before the meeting tonight.
Yes, of course. Of course I do.
 You hold great hope for this meeting.
I can see no other hope for your planet. If the meeting should fail, then I'm afraid there is no hope.
 It must be twelve-thirty.
 Yes -- Just exactly.
Where are you going now?
Back to the boardinghouse. I'll be safe there for the afternoon -- and I can keep an eye on Bobby. He's the only other person who knows anything about--
No, wait a minute -- there's someone else.
Who?
Tom... He was there last night when Bobby told me what he saw.
 Of course, he doesn't know anything definite. He'd talk to me first, anyway, before-- (interrupting herself in sudden decision) We can't take that chance. I'll get in touch with him right away and make sure.
 --But I've got to talk to him. It's terribly important. When is he coming back?
I don't know, Mrs. Benson. He left before noon -- before that awful electric business. I'm scared to death, Mrs. Benson. I -- No, he wouldn't tell me where he was gong. Said it was something personal.
Tell him I want to see him the minute he gets in... No, I'll call back.
Attention, please.... All flights from National Airport have been canceled until further notice.. All flights from this airport have been canceled.
 'Bye now.
Call the Pentagon and find out who's in charge of this space man business. Whoever it is I want to talk to him.
Mrs. Benson's been trying to get you all afternoon. She says it's important.
Get this other call first.
Oh, Mrs. Benson -- He just walked in.  Are you nervous, too?
Yes, I am, Margaret.
Mrs. Benson is here.  Go on in.
Tom -- I've been trying to get you all afternoon--
 Come on in.
I've got some terrific news about your friend, Mr. Carpenter.
 What about him?
Helen, he's the man from the space ship! (she eyes him evenly, apprehensively, as he hurries on) I had that diamond checked at three different places. Nobody on earth's ever seen a stone like that! After what Bobby told us, that's enough for me. Why is it nobody knows anything about him? Why hasn't he got any money?
 All right, Tom -- it's true. I know it's true.
How do you know?
Never mind about that. (urgently, with great concern) You've got to promise me you won't say a word to anybody.
Are you crazy? After what happened today?
You don't understand. You don't realize how important it is.
 Important? Of course it's important. The point is we can do something about it.
That's what I'm trying to tell you. We mustn't do anything about it. Believe me, Tom, I know what I'm talking about.
 He's a menace to the whole world! It's our duty to turn him in.
 But he isn't a menace! He told me what he came here for.
 You realize what this'd mean for us? I'd be the biggest man in the country. I could write my own ticket.
 Is that what you're thinking about?
 Why not? Somebody's got to get rid of him.
I'm not going to let you do it, Tom. (with deep personal urgency) Believe me, this is literally the most important thing in the world.
 Yes?... What's his name, Margaret? General Cutler? (disappointed that the connection isn't completed) All right, I'll hold on.
Tom, you mustn't -- ! You don't know what you're doing! It isn't just you and Mr. Carpenter. The rest of the world, is involved!
 I don't care about the rest of the world!
You'll feel different when you see my picture in the papers.
 I feel different right now.
 You wait and see. You're going to marry a big hero!
I'm not going to marry anybody.
 Hello, General Cutler?  No, I don't want to speak to his aide. I want to speak to the General. Tell him it's about the space man... My name is Tom Stevens. S-t-e-v-e-n- s.
 That's right, General. That's where he's staying... Yes, of course I'm sure.
 Deploy all Zone 5 units according to Plan B -- immediately.
across the intersection into the boardinghouse street is the jeep followed by the Colonel's staff car.
 Attention, Zone 5... Yellow cab, moving north on B from Ninth Street. Man and woman in back seat. Get the license number and report.
I'm sure Barnhardt can arrange to hide me until the meeting.
Where is the meeting going to be?
At the ship.
listens to his radio for a moment, then speaks into his transmitter.
 Attention, Zone 5... license number of target vehicle is W 4936... All vehicles maintain your positions -- and hold your fire.
 Attention, Zone 5 -- report when target vehicle passes your position.
 It's only a few blocks to Barnhardt's.
I'm worried about Gort. I'm afraid of what he might do -- if anything should happen to me.
Gort?  But he's a robot. I mean -- without you, what could he do?
 There's no limit to what he could do. He could destroy the Earth.  If anything should happen to me, you must go to Gort. You must give him this message: "Klaatu barada nikto." Please repeat that.
 "Klaatu barada nikto."
 Remember those words.
 Attention, Zone 5... Section number 2 -- block off Tenth Street at Massachusetts. All vehicles close in.
Hey, what's this all about?
 Get that message to Gort. Right away--
Gort--!  Klaatu -- barada -- nikto.
 Yes, sir, we've got the body here now. Downstairs in a cell... No question about it, General -- he's dead all right... Yes, sir. Yes -- I understand.
General Cutler's coming down here right away.  Take a squad of men, Lieutenant, and post a guard around that cell.  Captain, don't let anyone in or out of the building.
 Hello.
 I -- I thought you were--
 I was.
 You mean he has the power of life and death?
No -- that is a power reserved to the Almighty Spirit.
 This technique, in certain cases, can re-stimulate life for a limited period. It's a refinement of scientific principles known to your own people.
 But how -- how long--?
How long will I live?  That no one can say.
I'm sorry, Professor Barnhardt -- I have to ask you to call off this meeting.
Call it off? I... But I had permission from the Army--
I know you did. But the robots on the loose now and it isn't safe around here. You'll have to get your friends out of that building.
Gort and I will be leaving soon.
 We'll miss you very much -- Bobby and I. (smiling to conceal her real feelings) He won't have anyone to play with.
He'll have you -- and Tom.
 No. That's all finished.
I'm sorry.
 I think I'm very lucky. You don't always get a chance to recognize a mistake before you make it.
Ladies and Gentlemen--
I called you from your work and from your homes all over the world because we were to meet here tonight with a man from another planet -- the man who came here in this ship. (there are audible exclamations of surprise and disappointment) As you all know, this is no longer possible. I can only say that I share the bitterness of your disappointment.
Gort -- berengo.
--under the circumstances, the Army people have asked us to leave the building. And, since their concern is for our safety, I can do nothing but suggest that we comply--
 The Universe grows smaller every day -- and the threat of aggression by any group -- anywhere -- can no longer be tolerated.
 There must be security for all -- or no one is secure... This does not mean giving up any freedom except the freedom to act irresponsibly.
 Your ancestors knew this when they made laws to govern themselves -- and hired policemen to enforce them.
We of the other planets have long accepted this principle. We have an organization for the mutual protection of all planets -- and for the complete elimination of aggression. A sort of United Nations on the Planetary level... The test of any such higher authority, of course, is the police force that supports it. For our policemen, we created a race of robots--  Their function is to patrol the planets -- in space ships like this one -- and preserve the peace. In matters of aggression we have given them absolute power over us.
 At the first sign of violence they act automatically against the aggressor. And the penalty for provoking their action is too terrible to risk.
The result is that we live in peace, without arms or armies, secure in the knowledge that we are free from aggression and war -- free to pursue more profitable enterprises.  We do not pretend to have achieved perfection -- but we do have a system -- and it works. (with straightforward candor) I came here to give you the facts. It is no concern of ours how you run your own planet -- but if you threaten to extend your violence, this Earth of yours will be reduced to a burned- out cinder.
Your choice is simple. Join us and live in peace. Or pursue your present course -- and face obliteration.  We will be waiting for your answer. decision rests with you.
Gort -- veracto.
