Do-you have tomorrow's Times yet? The grizzled OLD MAN behind the counter doesn't look up.
It is tomorrow.
Right. I forgot. The Old man grudgingly bends to cut the plastic on a fresh stack of newspapers. As he does, Jonathan glances at numerous porn magazines on display. Naked women smile back at him --
Anything else?
Uh - no. No that's it, thanks.
Jonathan! The voice from nowhere startles him - he spins to find SOLANGE                                                         , a vibrant Haitian woman with a thick accent, standing in the doorway below, bundled in a ski jacket.
Solange, you're up so late?
So early, Jonathan. We open in one hour.
But why else does a young man come home at such an hour?
Just working late, that's all.
Every night working late, working late.  Ah, you can't fool me. You are Mister Mischief maker - I know this! You come by
later and pick out something for your lady friend, oui?
Excuse me. Fixing his coffee, Jonathan reaches past them. They barely give him a glance as they continue their conversation.
So, the Knicks win last night?
I'm pretty sure, yeah.
Actually, they lost by 4. Both pause, turn to Jonathan. Jonathan smiles awkwardly.
It was supposed to be a good game though.
Oh.  Hey, so. did you get a chance to look over that memo from Watkins?
politely at those he passes; few bother to smile in return.
Yes?
Take a look at this. The voice sounds youthful, energetic. Its owner slides his Journal along the floor halfway between the marble division.
The Japanese are developing a toilet that can analyze your urine for glucose levels, kidney disease, even cancer. They're referring to it as the "super bowl."
That certainly is                                               - something.
Of course if you've ever been to Japan, you know they're nuts about their toilets. I'm talking web sites, symposiums... Jonathan chuckles.
You think I'm kidding. They have bowls over there that cost more than a piano. What I want to know is how you're supposed to retrieve this analysis - you know, from your super bowl.
Maybe they're developing a fly with a nursing degree. A superfly.
Uh, Jonathan Messer.
Messer... What department?
None. I'm from Worth and Berman. I've been over here a few wee-- A FLUSH from the next stall cuts him off. The sound of zipping up, of a belt buckled, then of a stall door opening.
So you're an accountant? Jonathan follows the FOOTSTEPS, now addresses his stall door.
Audit manager, yeah.
So how's it work, Rutherford Stern hires Worth and Berman to give their blessing to our books, and they send you?
Have laptop, will travel. What about you?
What about me?
Well, I didn't get your name for one.th-- The SOUND OF A FAUCET RUNNING drowns him out.
.ose.
Sorry - I didn't catch that?  Hello...?
I said it's Wyatt. Wyatt Bose. Jonathan FLUSHES, buckles his belt, opens his stall door - - only the men's room is now empty.
Message-four. Three-oh-eight-pee-em.
Jonathan? Chet Peterson. Just wanted to- confirm you're wrapping up over there at Rutherford Stern because the controller at Clancey has been on me to get someone in there by Thursday. I told him how brilliant you are, said you're the best auditor we've got. Anyway, I forwarded you some documentation... Jonathan clicks his mouse - to find 27                           a-mails ending in worth&berman.com. He reaches for his palm pilot, clicks on a day planner, stylus writes "Clancey" into next week. Other than places he'll be working, days-are-all entirely blank.
12:53                                                            a.m. Startled, Jonathan turns to a well-dressed young man in the' doorway - penetrating eyes, playful smile, familiar voice:
Sorry if I scared you. I was heading home and saw the lights. We met before, in the can...
Sure. It's Wyatt, right? WYATT BOSE nods as he steps into the room. There's something very likeably "on" about him.
So do you normally work this late?
Pretty much. I'm supposed to be out of here by tomorrow so I'm just trying to finish up. What about you?
You kidding? This is an early night. Hard to believe that once upona time a man's success was measured by how little he had to work. You know in Sweden the average worker gets 7 weeks a year vacation?  Do-you like accounting?
It's all right, if you enjoy working with numbers. Do you like being a lawyer?
It's all right. If you enjoy working with assholes. Jonathan laughs, glances at his monitor screen.
Well, I'm probably disturbing you -
No - it's okay. Really.
So Worth and Berman, huh? Don't you have to like be in Mensa to work there? Jonathan smiles, shrugs modestly.
Been with them long?
Since my senior year of college. They subsidized my graduate degree.
Really. So you were poor? Jonathan is given pause by the bluntness of the question.
Well - I guess you could say that. I was raised by a single mother, and she died when I was nineteen, so... yeah. It wasn't so bad though. I'm sure a lot of people have had it worse.
Not around here. Practically every suit I know is Harvard by way of Andover.
Are you?
Me? Hell no... I'm Princeton. By way of Exeter. Jonathan laughs. Wyatt smiles, takes a few idle paces.
So. Jonathan.
CLOSE ON A SCREENSAVER OF SWIMMING FISH. Tilt up from Jonathan's laptop screen to Wyatt and Jonathan, sitting on top of the expensive conference-table, passinga joint, staring out at the rain hammering the far windows.
I don't know... I used to have friends. But it's like I've spent so much time trying to prove myself, working these hours                                                           - you can only do it so long before you look up and realize you've lost
everyone. Just - fell out of touch. With everyone... And I try to meet people at work. I do. But it's always the same. To the accounting staff I'm a pain because for two weeks they have to hold their breath and hope I don't pick up on any of their screw ups. And to everyone else, I'm just a temporary fixture, so why bother? The truth is, this is the first meaningful conversation I've had in I don't know how long. It's like if I disappeared tomorrow, I'm not .sure anyone other than Solange would even notice - she's my neighbor. I live on what must be the only block in Brooklyn that still isn't hip.
Jonathan?
Yeah?
By the clock on the wall there? You've just talked for                                                 37                                       minutes straight. Wyatt looks at Jonathan -- and cracks up. Jonathan hesitates, then he too starts to laugh so now they can't stop, their laughter filling the expansive room -- until it's drowned by the SOUND ADVANCE OF POURING RAIN...
Weary and still a bit stoned, Jonathan peers sleepily into the dark expanse of tunnel, yawns - And then he sees "S" is waiting on the same platform. Ten yards away. He gazes at her. She's unwrapping some GUM. He watches as she puts a piece in her mouth. The sound of an ARRIVING N TRAIN. "S" heads for it, Jonathan follows... The train halts. The door before him is the last of its car, the door before her the first of the next. The doors open.
Uh,.either one is                                               -- I mean the N and the R both stop there so, you know, either way, I mean, this is the right train. Yes. SOS Of Thanks. "S" enters her car. Jonathan wavers, wants to follow into her car but doesn't have the nerve. He enters a different car.
Next stop Canal Street. Canal is next. He sees "S" rising to join the small crowd gathering by a door. Jonathan stands up - his last chance. Determined, he braces himself and rises, grasping his briefcase. The screeching of brakes as the train grinds into "CANAL ST.
A sudden JOLT of the braking train.causes Jonathan to stumble slightly and his briefcase BANGS against a seat and SNAPS OPEN - contents tumbling out. His cell phone hits the floor. Jonathan quickly bends for his phone - when the train lurches to a halt, nearly knocking him over, and sliding his cell phone a few feet along the grimy floor. O.S. we hear the hiss of the doors opening as Jonathan grabs for his phone a second before it's stepped on. He hurriedly stuffs it in his pocket, shoves his files and papers and paraphernalia back into his briefcase and rises to his feet - - to find the doors closing, and "S" gone.
Devastated, he hurries to a window, searching the platform as the train begins to depart... He can just glimpse the back of her camel hair coat as his car is sucked back into a tunnel. He stands helpless, just shuts his eyes and lowers his head.
I guess that's it. then. Nice meeting you.
Uh huh. Jonathan turns to go, takes two paces - then turns back.
Listen - could you point me toward Wyatt Bose's office? The Assistant Controller looks up in mild annoyance.
Wyatt Bose. He's an attorney here. She sighs, put upon, then slides out a desk drawer in which a laminated page of names and extensions is taped. Jonathan's eyes follow her lazy finger down the list --
Leaving, huh? So where to next?
Clancey Funds on Thursday. Clute Nichols after that. Wyatt's about to reply - when ANOTHER LAWYER passes him in the hall. Wyatt taps the lawyer's shoulder.
Hey, wait up a sec.  Well, good meeting you, Jonathan. ,Wyatt turns and starts to walk off with the other lawyer. Jonathan bends for his briefcase -
Wait, so you have off tomorrow? Jonathan looks up to Wyatt smiling at him from down the hall.
You don't happen to have .a. decent backhand, do you?
Out!
Jonathan curls forward, gasping for air. Silence - then Wyatt's SOLITARY APPLAUSE echoes in the humid space.
Commiserations, Messer. Good game. They shake hands at the net. Jonathan is exhausted.
They asked if we'd fancy a post-game cocktail. Don't worry, I got us out of it. Jonathan is barely able to speak.
Oh? I would've been happy to.
Are you kidding? They're a couple of first years at Merrill. Screw that, we can do better. Hey, you OK? Jonathan nods as an amused Wyatt helps him to his feet.
Man, I remember when these first came out. I think I was a frosh at boarding school.  Jeez, are these strings natural gut?
Actually, it's a hybrid weave: natural gut and Kevlar. They're pretty obscure now. I should replace them, they're all frayed...
Looking up, Jonathan abruptly slows his pace, his eyes suddenly fixed on a woman sitting at the far end of the bar. From behind, it looks remarkably like "S"... Only, as she turns, her profile proves otherwise.
Have you ever considered contacts? Jonathan halts, confused to find Wyatt studying his face       - his eyeglasses in particular.
Huh? Oh - yeah, I tried once, but I was allergic to something in the solution.
Too bad. You have an attractive face. Your eyes especially. Jonathan looks self-conscious in his towel.
It's not a come on, just an observation.  You don't get much, do you.
What - you mean sex?
No, flood insurance. How many women have you slept with?
Oh, I don't know, not a whole-
Of course you know. Everyone knows.
Maybe - four.
Maybe four?
Okay fine, just four. What about you?
Me? I have no idea.
What? You just said everyone -
I meant everyone like you. Confused, Jonathan looks up -- as Wyatt disappears into a shower stall.
Tonight?... Fine. I'm on the list? Jonathan finds Wyatt half-dressed, seated on a bench by a locker and talking on his cell phone.
There better be. Wyatt hangs up, looks up to find Jonathan staring, puzzled.
Something wrong? Jonathan reaches into his locker for his hanging jacket, and pulls out his own cell phone. It's identical to Wyatt's.
We have the same phone.
Oh - and you thought I was using yours? I can afford my own phone calls, you know.
No, I wasn't                                                   -- of course you can-
I'm pulling your dick, Jonathan.  Actually, I was just firming up some plans for tonight. Are you free?
You're not. What do you say, are you in?
I guess I could go home and change.
To Brooklyn? Forget it, you can borrow something of mine.
t                                                               a                       uten Abend, Herr Kleiner.  This way, Jonathan.
Like it? It's a Gerhard Richter. Kleiner downstairs is a hot shot art dealer - he hooked me up with the gallery in Munich. Wyatt disappears into the next room. Alone, Jonathan wanders, pauses by the framed snapshots. The young people in them are like Wyatt -- beautiful, strong, wealthy. Jonathan pauses by one photo in which Wyatt looks a bit younger, his hair bleached blonde and loosely spiked.
Talk about a bad look. Startled, Jonathan quickly turns to find Wyatt standing right behind him,. a slick, expensive SUIT draped over his arm.
Here, try this one.  What?
Nothing, I just hope I can pull it off.
You hope you can pull it off. You know who you remind me of? James Getz.
Who?
A guy I roomed with freshman year at Princeton.. Real smart                                 - witty too, when you loosened him up. Only from day one, he just didn't fit in. For starters, he was dirt poor. But it wasn't that. See, there was always this boundary - this wall - between Getz and everyone else. You could argue we laid the foundation, but he built it. Built it by believing the lie.
What lie?
That he was any different. The clothes, the money, the wry anecdotes - it's all one big masquerade. Anyone can get in, you've just got to wear a costume. But Getz never got that. He assumed he could never scale the wall, when the truth is he was the only one guarding it. It never occurred to him his anonymity could be an asset. No one gets over like the guy who's just a face, an impression. We are - all of us                                                  - only who we're perceived to be.
So what happened to him?
Who, James Getz? Oh - he killed himself.
 You're pulling my dick, aren't you. Wyatt turns to him with a grave look... then smirks.
With both hands. Jonathan can't help but laugh as Wyatt hands him the suit.
CLOSE ON A BUFF YOUNG MAN                                        in a vintage bowler hat. He struts up to us, thumbs in his suspenders:
And now, straight from the Cafe Germaine, the Velvet Rope is proud to introduce you to the lovely Miss Lu Lu Lamour!
It's a little self-conscious, but I thought you'd get a kick out of it. How's that suit working out?
Oh - great, actually.
Keep it then. I've got two just like it. Jonathan's about to protest, when a WAITRESS arrives.
Two Macallan 25 year. Enjoy, gentlemen.
Isn't this like fifty bucks a glass?
We'll try not to spill any.  So what's the wildest thing you've ever done? Sexually, I mean.
The wildest thing? Oh I don't know, I've never been too adventuresome.
All right, what's the lamest thing then?
The lamest... Wyatt's focused on him, amused, eager to hear it.
Actually, that was probably a few months ago. I was flipping through money magazine and saw this small ad in the back. It read something like "Are. you feeling all alone? Looking to meet women but have forgotten how?" And-there was this number.
And you called it? So what happened?
Nothing actually. The phone just kept ringing. And that's it. Wyatt stares at Jonathan a beat, then starts to crack up.
Lame enough for you?
You called a sex ad - from Money Magazine. That is beyond lame. Jonathan too starts laughing - when the phone at their table lights'up. Wyatt looks to Jonathan, raises a brow - then picks up. He listens a moment, smiles, hands it to Jonathan.
.Hello? Wyatt taps his shoulder, directs his gaze to a SEXY BRUNETTE at a distant table, receiver to her ear, eyeing Jonathan.
.All right... Goodbye. Jonathan hangs up, turns to Wyatt.
She wants to dance.
She's a hooker. Wyatt shrugs, grinning.
Hold on - you knew? What - are all the women here prostitutes?
That depends on what you mean by that word. Stretch the definition and you could incorporate most of the men as well.  You know in Amsterdam prostitutes not only belong to a union, they have to pay taxes.
You seem to possess quite a store of international trivia.
Not really. I just get around... Jonathan, relax. It's not like she just shot your dog. I was only trying to help. Besides, what are you looking for - a relationship? As if you have time for one? This was your first day off in how long?
Three weeks.
Four for me. Face it, we've mortgaged our youth. Pimped out our twenties. But we still have needs. And there's nothing shameful about wanting them met.
So you sleep with hookers?
So how do you - meet your needs? Wyatt studies him a beat, another French love song drifting in the background as the Emcee introduces a new girl.
What if I told you...  Christ, I sound like an infommercial.
What were you going to say?
Listen. You don't think that women have these same urges? Young women, just like ourselves, successful and working their asses off to stay that way? You better believe they do.
And?
And - well - let's just say, there's a way...a way it can be taken care of.
You make it sound like a mob hit. Wyatt smiles, and turns his attention back to the floor show.
What you were talking about, before. Peoples' needs... Wyatt turns to Jonathan with a grin:
Some other time. 
At the corner, please. The Rhiga Royal.  Listen, I have to meet someone..
Hey. You had a good time tonight?
Yeah. Yeah I did. Thanks.
I'm glad. Listen, that thing with the hooker, I'm really sorry if I                                   -
Forget it. It was funny. Wyatt smiles warmly, pats Jonathan's shoulder.
I'll give you a call tomorrow. Wyatt                                                           climbs out. Jonathan watches through the cab window as Wyatt disappears into the golden glow of the lobby. LATER: Driving in the cab, Jonathan catches his reflection in the glass. He smiles, liking how he looks in Wyatt's suit. Outside, rainy Manhattan passes by ina hypnotic blur.
 Hey. Could you let me out at the next corner over there, on 7th Avenue?
Beside him we see he's set up his laptop, phone charger, pencils and a fresh, unopened pack of pastel post-its.
Any problems, you'll want to see Julie Levinson, she's our assistant controller                       - or if she's busy, Scott Werner, our senior accountant. If Werner's unavailable, we have two staff accountants                                     - but like I said, I don't anticipate any problems. I mean we've never had any before, so...
Right.I just need the access codes for the accounts and sub-accounts? The Controller suddenly looks uneasy.
You've got account numbers, but no access codes. Without those I can't get the banks to authorize statement verification.  Besides, how else can I steal the money?
What?
Nothing, I was just pulling your-- leg. I do need those codes though, when you get a chance.
Hey, Jonathan.
How'd you know it was-
You really ought to block your caller ID. So - same place as yesterday?
I wonder what the Founding Fathers would make of this scene. Wyatt regards face after face of young men and women wearing expensive suits, wolfing down lunch so they can get back to work - a good 2/3 of them talking on cell phones as they eat.
I'm just glad to be outside.  I've got to tell you, this has been great, meeting up for lunch. I used to just- A cell phone RINGS. They both instinctively reach in their jackets, take out their identical phones. It's Wyatt's that's ringing. Jonathan rests his down on the ledge.
Yes?... Shit. Okay, see if you can.gettme on the 6:15                                                     out of JFK tonight... Fine. Wyatt rests his phone on the ledge next to Jonathan's.
Rutherford needs me to join him asap in London to paper some financing with Lloyds. I tell you about this?
No - no you didn't.
Yeah, I should be gone a few weeks. Jonathan tries to mask the wave of loneliness setting in.
Sounds exciting.
Nah, it'll be boring as sin.
Wyatt studies him a moment, grabs his cell phone and rises from the ledge.
Shit, I'd better get back. You ready?
He enters the numbers again, receives the same prerecorded message. He hangs up -- when it abruptly RINGS, surprising him. He stares at the phone a curious beat, then answers it.
Jonathan Mess- CLICK. Dead air. More puzzled, Jonathan frowns a beat          - then replaces the battery with one fresh off the charger.
.That's just it. You caught him in a lie, so now everything he says you have to- RING of a cell phone. RING... RING... It's Jonathan's. Surprised, he takes out the phone, presses talk.
Hello? A soft, electronic rustle from the other end... then:
Are you free tonight?
Excuse me?
I asked if you're free tonight.
I'm sorry, I think you have the wrong--
CLICK. The line goes dead.
Hello? The CRACKLE OF STATIC on the other end. Then:
Are you free tonight?
Actually I am, but I don't think I'm who The static on the other end worsens.
I'm sorry, I didn't get that?
I said I am free, but I                                         -
Could you be at the Plaza in one hour?
The hotel? I - I guess, but -
Beneath the Eloise portrait. THE ROAR OF A TRAIN pulling in. Only when the train passes can he hear the other end. But now there's no one there. Jonathan stares at his cell phone - and frowns. Close on the phone's display as Jonathan scrolls down its list of stored numbers. His expression says none are familiar. And NOW he gets it.
 Hi, it's Jonathan, I've got your cell! I guess you must have mine. I imagine you're in the air now, but call when you get this. if you do. Oh, and you got a call from someone who I'm...forget it, just call me. Jonathan hangs up.
So where ya visiting from?
Excuse me?
You're from out of town, right?
Huh. I can usually tell. You seem like a tourist.
I've lived here all my life!
No offence, pal. The cabbie pulls over on Central Park South. Jonathan leans forward, peers up at the gorgeous French Renaissance facade.
Well, here ya are. The Plaza.
Pardon me, but may I ask you something - personal? Jonathan quickly looks.up, to find standing before him an attractive BLONDE WOMAN. She's. around his age, slender to the point of stark, dressed in a chic grey business suit.
Are you waiting for me?
I                                                                - think so, yes. You're here for Wyatt, right?
Excuse me?  I'm sorry, did we speak earlier?
Yes. Yes we did -
Good. Let's go then.
 Look, I don't think I'm -- I mean; you and I., we don't know each other...? She turns to him, the slightest smile on her thin lips.
No fooling. DING. The doors open. She steps out. A beat. He follows.
Walls, carpeting - details all classically gorgeous. The Blonde keeps a quick pace, headed toward a room.
What I mean to say is, I'm fairly certain there's been some kind of mistake.
She stops dead in her tracks, her back to him.
You're not who I spoke with on the phone?
No - I mean, yes, but -
You're not attracted to me?
Oh no, it's not that at all, it's just                          -
It's just what... exactly? She turns, steps toward him. Jonathan opens his mouth to explain -- when she covers it with hers. It takes him a moment to succumb to her kiss... but not too long.
Fuck. LATER: Jonathan lies post-coital. A smile. And then a look of mild anxiety, 'what's going on'? He turns to the Blonde but she's fast asleep.
Sir, I'm showing that room as having checked out at                                                 6:20                                   this morning.
Well could you tell me the name of the guest who was staying there?
I'm afraid we're not allowed to disclose information regarding our guests. If you give me her name, I can confirm if she was registered here.
Actually, the thing is... it's okay. Forget it.
Hello?
Hey, you're up early!
Hi! How's London?
Raining. So you've got mine-and I've.got yours?
Yeah. Listen, last night...um...I met this-
Damn! Sorry, I'm gonna have to call you back, they want me in a meeting. Hey, no long distance calls, okay! Wyatt hangs up. Jonathan shakes his head, amused. He hails a cab, glances back at the hotel. His lips curl into a vaguely proud, if still dazed, smile.
Yes?
Hello, um - I'm sorry to bother you                             -
How did you get this number?
Through a friend.
I think you've got the wrong number. Now if you'll excuse me                                             -
wait - Jonathan fumbles for what else to say before she hangs up.
Yes? CLOSE ON JONATHAN. What to say? And then:
 Are you free tonight? He shuts his eyes, ready for a hang up. A long silence.
I can be. Jonathan opens his eyes half in disbelief.
Where?
Where. Right... The Plaza?
I'm afraid that's a bit uptown for me. Perhaps the Mercer? Say by the Shakespeare, half past eleven?
The Shakespeare?
It should be fairly evident.
Excuse me, um - I'm sorry to disturb you - She turns, regards him a moment, curiously - a copy of Shakespeare's "A Midsummer Night's Dream" in her hand.
I'm - supposed to meet someone here and-
You're rather new to this, aren't you? Jonathan falters. She smiles.
That's okay. I like that.
She enters first, then Jonathan. He waits for her.to push a button - only it seems she's waiting for him to do the same.
I'm sorry, what floor? She rolls her eyes.
Frankly I'm surprised that whoever gave you access didn't explain more.
The initiator is responsible for the room.
 Oh - so I should...?
Precisely.
So are there a lot of - people - who do this? She turns to him with a look of growing impatience -- when the CREAK OF A CART causes them to glance up: a ROOM SERVICE WAITER is crossing past the far end of the hall. Jonathan turns back to find her staring at him uneasily.
How did you get into this?
Well, a friend of mine -
He uploaded your numbers but failed to explain the basics?
He's                                                          - well, he was going out of town.  I'm doing something wrong, aren't I?
It's not that, it's just... well, you strike me as something of a stowaway. In fact if I were more suspicious, I'd say you didn't belong here at all. Flustered, Jonathan's about to offer some explanation ---
But obviously somebody felt you did. The notion suddenly registers with Jonathan -- Wyatt!
And I'm a sucker for bashful boys... She takes his wrist, traces a finger over his palm... and removes the key card from his hand.
Can I ask you something? Why do you do this?
Why are any of us doing this? For the economics of the arrangement.  It's intimacy without intricacy. Jonathan's about to reply --
Look, I've got a 7                                            a.m. breakfast, so... She says no more. Jonathan stares up at the ceiling a beat.
Well - good night.
She doesn't reply.
 Hey, I never heard back from you. I guess you're busy.with stuff over there.  I've been kinda busy too! I've been wondering - did you mean for me to take your phone?
I've got a feeling you did. You dog! I can see you grinning right now. Jonathan returns the BELL STAFF's chipper greetings and steps inside --
Anyway, I just wanted to say... thank you. SOUNDTRACK MUSIC SWELLING: to herald a MONTAGE:
Can you hold these?
to Jonathan and YET ANOTHER WOMAN having sex. The bed keeps banging against the night stand - a glass of water, moving closer to the edge with every bang. There's something almost rote about it, a numbness in the repetition... the glass FALLS, HITS the ground and BREAKS. MATCH CUT TO: Jonathan PLUNGES into water.
Jonathan, for so long I don't see you!
J'ai ete tres occupe. with work. He's exhausted. And no longer so exhilarated by his nightly activities.
Work? No, no. You believe you can trick me, Mr. Mischief Maker! I want to meet this lady friend of yours. Jonathan is about to protest -
Ah., ah                                                        - ecoutez, I have beautiful winter- roses, just. arrived. She.will swoon... Jonathan smiles, but there's a reticence to it.
Maybe later, okay?
There is no later when it comes to love! If you find it, you must not let it go.
Jonathan nods absently, continues up the steps                  - when she tugs his sleeve. He turns to her; she searches his eyes.
There really is no one? Jonathan evasively shakes his head.
There should be, Jonathan. It is not good for a young man to be too much alone. He gives her an uncomfortable smile. She smiles back, but as she heads inside, she looks both-sad and worried for him. Jonathan continues up the steps, opens the front door and disappears inside. We remain on the vacant street, hear his FOOTSTEPS climbing the steps - and then the muted RING of his cell phone. A beat, then another... .and the front door opens again as Jonathan steps back out into the night.
Excuse me... He doesn't breathe. Utterly stunned, he turns to confirm... It's her.                                                       -It's "S".
Jonathan is about to say something but can't. She undoes the next button. We can glimpse a bra. She undoes the next --
Before we...um, the thing is                                   - I know you. She glances up, curious                                        - her hand lingering by the front clasp of her bra.
Not 'know' exactly, but we sort of met before. In the Times Square subway station. It was raining...
You had no umbrella. You were soaked.
It's true, I don't have an umbrella.
Then you asked me if the N train stops at Canal. She squints back at him, vaguely recalling him. She smiles warmly and continues to unbutton her blouse.
Wait.
This just seems strange, that's all.
Maybe. I don't know, it's just                                 -
It's just that-
 Hmm, it is kind of a gear-shift. She starts to button her blouse back up.
Wait - don't go. She glances back curiously.
What I mean is, by any chance... are you hungry?
sorry, I'm a messy eater. Me too. Jonathan rubs at his chin with a napkin, misses. she takes the napkin, dabs it in water and cleans him up.
Thanks.
They continue to eat for a while, eyeing each other   between bites.
By the way, my name's-
Don't! She puts her finger to his lips. A first touch. An electricity between them.
 You know the rules. No names.
The 'rules' seem to specify no conversation either. as., They are a little rigid, aren't they? But I think we should obey the 'no names'. It'll be fun!
Ah, but I know.yours begins with an 'S'. Sir Is that right?
I saw part of the monogram on your briefcase. ./ S If I see-Excellent work, Holmes.  Maybe I'll tell you if.you guess... Her face is an inch from his, the moment mysterious   and           sexy.
 Hmrn...what do we know of her? She sports a camel coat, a briefcase and possesses no umbrella. I deduce...her name is 'Sybil'. 'S' laughs.
Sarah? Sara? Samantha? Sandra? Susan? She makes a little sound of encouragement. Hun...
Aha! Sue?  Suzie with a 'z'? You're saying my name is 'Suzie'?
is it?
Jonathan laughs.
I've got to tell you, I'm much better with numbers... How about Sonia? Sheena? Wait - Sophie! You're definitely a Sophie.
With an 'ie' or a 'y'?
Either.
Neither.
How about Syd? As in Syd Charisse? She was Cyd with a 'C'!
But maybe you spell it with an 'S'? ,, S . If I do not.
Steffi? Sexy Steffi soaking in the:rain?. She                                                         mock-frowns.
Nein.
Sally? Sally with three 'l's? She                                                         shakes her head, amused. Jonathan rubs his chin.
Hmmm. Hmmm. The mysterious 'S' alighted from the train at Canal Street. She may well be from 'downtown'...hmm...ah! Of course! How foolish I've been; Sinead. 'S'                                                         giggles, charmed by him.
Stella? Sky? Sunbeam?
Do I look like a 'Sunbeam'?
Absolutely. To me you are 'Sunbeam'.
Then so be it. Jonathan considers this a moment, and concedes.
Can I ask what you do for a living? You first.
I sit behind glass and watch people pass like fish. She smiles - a more interesting answer than she expected.
You work in a bank?
Nahh, I'm... I'm kind of an accountant. us,, Now I bet that's just what you wanted to do when you were a kid!
Oh yeah. I'm living the dream. Feel free to leave now. u S Still here.
So what about you?
You look like a Frank. So, Frank, when you were a little boy, what did you wanna be when you grew up? .Jonathan thinks. Confesses:
A pro tennis player.
Huh! I wanted to be an umpire.
You're kidding? Really! I loved the idea of sitting in that big, high chair.  'The ball was good,'Mr McEnroe.'
I can see it. An 80's new wave love song comes on the radio. She beams, reaching across Jonathan to turn it up.
a, S 11 I used to love this song. "S" stands up on the bed, starts to dance. She reaches her hand out to Jonathan. He smiles, shakes his head.
Trust me, it's not a pretty sight.
I'll be the judge of that. He hesitates, then takes her hand, rises to his feet, and starts to dance with her. He's self-conscious at first, but she's agile enough to guide him, and soon he's into it. is S Il See? You just need the right partner. She closes her eyes, swaying with the music. They dance together. He's falling even harder for her. As the song ends she holds his gaze -- when a small yawn escapes her. She covers her mouth. of S+ I'm so sorry. Suddenly I'm crashing. She drops down on the bed, tugging him down with her. They lie back, side by side.
I'd like to see you again. Not in a hotel. it S+ " Hmm. I'd have to think about that.
How about tomorrow? /. S to It is tomorrow. She curls up next to him, rests her head on his arm, closes her eyes and drifts off. Jonathan gazes over at her. The perfect line of her jaw. The petite divot above her lip. The tiny pierced comma in a presently unadorned earlobe. And then he notices, in the far corner: her purse. He stares at it; her name and personal details less than 20               feet away. He hesitates, then tries to silently slide his arm out from under her -- when she stirs and nuzzles closer. He looks over
to the purse, then back at "S," sleeping peacefully on his arm... and chooses this perfect moment over knowing any more.
Are you free tonight? A bea- - and then Wyatt's familiar laughter.
Hey! Are you back in town?
I wish. It's friggin' anarchy in the U.K.. I'm stuck here at least another week.
Oh. Because I thought I saw you last night - at the Hudson.
The Hudson, huh? Sounds like you've been enjoying my little gift.
Yeah. I mean, I was. Only now - well, I met a girl. Not just any girl. The girl.
That's fantastic! Who is the lucky gal?
She's a member of your naughty little sex club. I have broken all the rules and had an honest-to-God conversation.
That's extremely naughty of you! So what happened, Romeo?
I'd like to say it's a long story but it's not. When you are coming back, you gotta meet her.
So she's, what, a lawyer or something?
I-have no idea, I don't know all that much about her. All I know is I can't wait to see her again.
Listen, I don't want to dampen your spirits, but - be careful, okay?
What do you mean by that?
Nothing. I'm just saying, this club                         - who knows who anybody is, right?
Yeah, yeah, yeah but - sometimes you just have to go with what you feel, don't you?
True enough. Hold on a sec. Muffled sounds of Wyatt talking to someone else.
It's non stop back-to-back bullshit here. Listen, I'll call you later. And hey - congratulations! Wyatt hangs up. Jonathan smiles. And then reads the note again - grinning.
Hello?
 Are you free tonight?
Hello? Intermittent static on the other end. And then what sounds like a WOMAN GASPING; it's unclear if it's a sound of pleasure or pain.
.Hello? The Gasping comes faster; Jonathan debates hanging up - when the gasps halt,--replaced by the faintest whisp__of_ a female voice: "No... No please..." There's no mistaking the tone now it's fear - then. suddenly a shrill, terrified SCREAM... - and the line goes dead. Jonathan stares breathlessly at the phone in his hand, like he's just witnessed something awful. He quickly checks the display: "Number Unavailable." Jonathan looks panicked with the possibility that it was "S"- - when the phone rings again. He hesitates, then picks up.
Sure you don't mean "clashing?" She laughs                                                      - then notices how tense he seems.
Are you all right?
I guess. I got a call-before yours                              - I'm not sure if it was real, or if it was even meant for me - but there was a woman who sounded like she was being - I don't know, hurt. Maybe worse. "S" seems instantly on edge. Something about this scares her. If SIP You don't know who she was?
 It could've been a prank. . Now you're the one who looks scared.
No, it's just                                                   - it sounds creepy, that's all.
She shakes it off, mustering a smile as she takes his arm.
He's so cute! What's his name?
Oh, poor Duck On Bike! She uprights the toy and it keeps on moving across the table.
You gotta respect him; he just keeps at it. A WAITER arrives and sets down a laminated menu - entirely in Chinese. "S" points to the characters like an expert. J! $ Ft We'll have this... and this... oh, and let's try one of these. Thank you. The Waiter nods, walks off.
What did you order?
S of I have absolutely no idea.
How do you know we'll like it?
How do you know we won't? Jonathan gazes at her a beat.
This is so...not my life.
More than you know.
Ever since that night on the subway - I haven't stopped thinking about you. She lowers.her eyes.
Sorry, I didn't mean to freak you out. She slowly looks up again, touched.
No. it S., Even so, I'm not sure I believe you. Jonathan's look, 'why not?'
You're in the sex club! Another anonymous guy looking for anonymous action. I'm not judging you, I'm in. there too, but don't say you've been solemnly holding atorch for me for - how long is it -- wow, one whole month! Jonathan smiles.
Point taken. But I've thought about you a lot.
In between the mindless shtupping?
And sometimes during. She laughs. The waiter brings them their drinks.
So how come you got involved in the club? She frowns slightly, thinks. s . If Wouldn't it be great if you could just meet someone and not have to do the 'work/ family/previous relationships' thing? Isn't who we are right now so much more interesting than where we've come from?
Sure... but that didn't really answer my question. She reaches over and takes his hand, holds it tenderly. S of I know it seems like I'm holding out on you, but I'm not. It's just                                  - I turned thirty this year, and I made this vow to live only in the present. And it's good, you know? And yes, maybe it's because there are things in my past I don't care to think about - but that's the same for everyone, isn't it? He nods, still holding hands, loving every moment of this. is S . I like you. I hope you like me. Can't that be enough? Jonathan smiles, completely disarmed by her. The waiter brings their food and goes.
I wasn't asking for an autobiography, you know. I was just curious.
If S. IS  A woman I know used to do it. So I decided to give it a try. For various reasons, it suits my present situation.
You mean the intimacy without intricacy.
Oh - no thanks.
Don't let the wrapper intimidate you. I buy it at a store nearby. It has ginseng in it, you know, for energy. It's not bad, though it sort of tastes like hairspray. She chews her gum. He watches her; the jaw line, her lips. She looks at him and smiles, but there's something behind it: a sadness. Almost an uneasiness.
Hey, are you all right?
I don't want to complicate your life.
Too late.                                                       -- I want all the complication you've got. She gazes at him, blinks back her emotions. it Sc, Your glasses. They're fogging up. She reaches out and gently removes his glasses.
She wipes the lenses, then peering into his eyes, slowly leans in to return them to his face... only she presses her lips to his instead, the glasses still in her hand, the kiss itself at once tender and passionate. She absently lowers her hand, lost in the unexpected intensity of the kiss. Embraced, they accidentally step under the sheet of water falling off the awning. Jonathan guides her back beneath the awning's shelter. At S is  Maybe you should go...
Maybe you should stay. She smiles as he kisses her even more passionately. Again they feel the awning's drops, and Jonathan moves to shelter them - - only "S" leans into him instead, leading him out from under the awning, the falling rain suddenly drenching their faces as they continue to kiss, the moment purely exhilarating. wiping the rain from her face, Jonathan gazes at her, soaked and utterly beautiful, with something akin to awe - like he's just breathed for the very first time. Rack focus on a hotel down the street, its neon sign reads: "Hotel Lotus."
Perfect. They watch together. s_.. So were you any good?
Yeah. But I didn't want it enough. The guys who make it really need it. I played recently, first time in years. I've got this friend - a new friend, he's great.
Maybe you'll meet him one day. Anyway, we played and he creamed me. But I knew I was better than him. He said I had no killer instinct. I's. it .I don't know, I think you're a pretty determined character.
On a level with this feller? He points to 'Duck on bike' watching over them like a charm.
Given the chance I believe you could be. She idly flips channels, finds a romantic melodrama, an old black and white film. They settle back to watch.
I know we said we wouldn't rush. But for the record, I'm doing everything Ican to apply.the brakes here. S                                                             . of Me too.
It's a wise and mature choice we've made.
But say we did, just say... Mmhmm...?
Say we were to suddenly tear off these robes... Would that be such a terrible thing? For two people in Manhattan -
In the small hours on a wet Winter's night...
To consummate their deep human needs in a frenzy of...of... Fucking and sucking?
Beautifully put. Its. I. You were saying?
Who - who would blame these two people?
Who could possibly judge them? They face each other, breathing deeply, almost panting...
And who would know? His face is inches from hers                                  - when she rolls over and reaches for a glass of water on the night stand. She sips her water, as she turns back to Jonathan. Still, Jonathan picks up on her subtle shift.
is everything okay? She starts to say something, then stops herself and nods instead. She sets down her glass, starts to get out of bed.
Where are you going?
 For ice...
 Ice, huh?
I saw a machine down the hall. I'll be right back. She starts to tie her robe closed -
That's all right, I'll go. He hops off the bed, grabs an ice bucket from the mini bar and a key card from the table, he surreptitiously adjusts his penis                                                           : and goes to the door. He's about to turn the handle when -
Wait -
 Yes? She hesitates a cryptic beat - then shakes her head, and smiles at him with immense tenderness. Jonathan beams back. its . P1 Hurry, okay? He blows her a kiss, she blows one back. Almost in SLOW MOTION. She looks stunning.
Would you like some help, ma'am?
I can manage, thank you. Finally, her bucket is full and she goes on her way. .Jonathan quickly fills his bucket with ice.
Returning down the empty hall, ice bucket in one hand, key card in the other, Jonathan hurriedly checks door numbers. We see Room 518                                                 has the DO NOT DISTURB sign on. Jonathan arrives back at room 517. He pauses and slips his robe from his shoulder, mock 'sexy'. He puts the card key in the lock, starts to open the door-- a small rectangular light blips RED. He tries the card again. Again red. He knocks on the door, calls out:
I can't get the card to work. He tries the card again. Leaning in, he thinks he hears something behind the door. He peers down at the key panel: red. He knocks harder, waits for a response. None. Dead silence.
Hello?... Hello? He jostles the door handle: it won't budge. He's getting anxious now, his breath quickening. He tries the key card again: red. He pounds harder, then slams his shoulder into the door. Nothing. Desperate, he tries the key card again -- and the light turns green.                                                          - A millisecond's surprised hesitation - then he jerks the handle, throws open the door and Jonathan tumbles into
He peers up into the small entryway: empty. Ahead of him we glimpse the foot of the bed, its mussed blanket and sheets. Jonathan gets to his feet, starts for the bed, his breath quickening as he now notices a few red specks on the blanket. Panicked, he rushes forward to find BLOOD soaking the bed, splattered all over the crumpled sheets... Jonathan gapes, horrified, the world crashing in on him just as he senses something behind him and BANG!                     - something hits him to the back of the head -- he goes down like a sack of potatoes.
fingers... slowly responding to the cold water... The TV playing a different film now. OVERHEAD OF JONATHAN lies on the floor. He groans a little. Rubs the back of his head. Checks his hand for blood. Pain etched in his face, he manages to get to his feet, shaky. He looks around the room. It's EMPTY. No sign of "S." He runs into the bathroom. Also empty. Back in the room, he tries the closets: empty. The CONNECTING DOOR between this room and the next: LOCKED. He looks to where she'd draped her clothes and bag - every trace of her is gone. He whips back to the bed - the sheets are still crumpled, only there's no blood an here on them. He runs to the window looks down at the street. It's four in the morning, no one around.
His undershirt tugged and misshapen, boxers twisted around his bare thighs, robe open, Jonathan scans the lobby, wild- eyed and shaking. It's utterly vacant at this hour, the only sound a piped-in muzak rendition of the Beatles' "Yesterday."
The Asian Clerk working there snaps his head up with a startled gasp. Jonathan barely manages to breathe the word:
help...
.I saw blood on the bed and then someone hit me. When I came to, she was gone.
This woman you were with. What's her name? Jonathan looks blank, his mind racing.
Sir?
I don't know.  It starts with an 'S'. I think.
Was shea prostitute?
No! No, she's just a person. A friend.
A friend with no name.
Of course she has a name! I just don't - we have to find her - something must have happened to her!
I thought you said there was blood?
I told you, whoever did this must have cleaned it up while I was out.
Jonathan freezes, eyes darting to the night stand.
My wallet and keys                                          - they're gone! They were right here... He looks over to the chair where his crumpled suit lies.    His SCARF is gone too.
Maybe she took them.
What?!
It happens.
She didn't do this, okay?! Something happened to her! You don't understand, we were... Wait! He sees something on the floor between the bed and night stand. He runs to to pick it up: a Chinese Gum Wrapper.
This                                                        -- this was hers... Jonathan clutches it desperately, the lone trace of her existence. The Guards exchange a look like he's INSANE.
Sir - are these your clothes? Jonathan nods absently.
How about putting them on.
Mr. Messer, I'm Detective Russo.
I told you how we met.
Through a sex group. Her flat words hang in the air. He guiltily avoids her eyes.
Does this group have a name?
I don't                                                         -- it's not like that.
Mr. Messer, I spoke to the desk clerk. She only recalled seeing you check in.
That's... that's the way it works.
All right. But now you're telling me that in addition to this mystery woman, there was another individual in the room?
Not at first -- look, I know how it sounds, but I'm telling you, whoever hit me must have - I don't know -- taken her. Maybe even... He stops himself, shuddering to think of the implications.
Mr. Messer, have you had - experiences like this before? Taking any sort of medication?
I'm not crazy, okay?! A woman vanished back there! There was blood all over the goddamn bed! He becomes very conscious that this sounds crazy - when A CELL PHONE RINGS: it's Russo's. She pauses, struck by the genuine desperation in Jonathan's face. She finally picks up.
Yeah.  No, I don't think it's necessary... Right. She hangs up and turns to Jonathan. He looks away, barely able to contain his devastation.
What am I supposed to do? An awkward silence, then:
If you want to file a report regarding the items she -  - the items you claim were stolen... Jonathan shakes his head, crushed and exasperated.
I'd like to go now. Is that all right? Can I just                                                          - can I go?
.Your ad says                                                     24-Hour Locksmith... Well how soon could you-... Fine. He opens a file: it's where he keeps his passport. He stuffs it in his back pocket, keeps searching, pulls a folder marked "CREDIT CARDS." Sorting through old statements, he finds the line: "To report a card lost or stolen..."
This is Jonathan Messer. I won't be able to come in today. I'm - pretty ill... 'Duck on Bike' sits on his nightstand next to his glasses.
Next stop Canal Street. Canal is next.
Jonathan pauses by a STREET VENDOR, takes from his pocket the GUM WRAPPER he found in the hotel, shows it to the vendor...
I was told you sell this gum here? The Old Woman studies him a wary beat, then gestures to a candy display. In one box is the same gum.
A woman - a white woman - buys this brand of gum. I need to find- The Old Woman interrupts him in raspy Chinese.
I'm sorry, I don't                                              -- Do you know the woman I'm talking about? A white woman...? Please, it's very important that I                              --
My grandmother doesn't speak English. Jonathan spins around to find a CHINESE GIRL. in a smock.
Can you ask if she knows the name of the white woman who buys this gum? The Girl questions the old woman in rapid Chinese. She takes. a dragon her smoke, then gives a lengthy answer. The girl nods, finally turns to an anxiously waiting Jonathan.
She says they sell that gum in practically every store in Chinatown.
Hello?
Mr. Messer?
The body came in late last night, although time of death's still unclear. She was found in a taxi: driver was in a .coffee shop on his break, came back to his cab and there she was in the back seat. The elevator shudders to a metallic stop.
Her purse was recovered from a dumpster about a block away, so we've got a name. Jonathan tenses as the elevator doors BANG OPEN.
Simone Forester. Jonathan looks sick with fear.
THE VICTIM'S FACE: it's not "S". But we do recognize her. It's the Blonde: the first woman he'd been with, the one he'd passed without a word in an office some days later. She looks the same, only death-pale and naked - and her neck marred by a thin, discolored line where she's been strangled.
Mr Messer...? He tries to speak, but can hardly breathe, let alone answer.
Was this the woman you were with last night? She frowns, suspicious of Jonathan's hesitation. His tense eyes whip across the morgue: the two cops still idling there. They're out of earshot, but their mere presence amps tension. Angle on the guns in their holsters. The handcuffs dangling --
Mr. Messer?
No - she's not. Not last night... no. Russo studies his strained expression a suspicious beat.
I figured it was a long shot. The only reason I called you down is she was last seen with a man in the bar of the Hudson hotel.
 The Hudson?
You mentioned this group of yours meets up at various hotels. I thought it was worth a shot. Russo glances up at him, trying to read him - something about his reaction not sitting right with her.
Mr. Messer, is there anything else you want to tell me? Nervous and torn, Jonathan manages to shake his head.
Wyatt, it's me. I need to talk to you. Call me, OK? Please.
May I help you? Jonathan is standing across from her.
Yes, I need to get in contact with one of your attorneys, Wyatt Bose - it's extremely important. He's working out of the London office right now. If I could speak to his assistant or someone who'd know how-to reach him immediately...
Of course. Just a minute. The Receptionist types into her PHONE SYSTEM. She shakes her head, confused.
B-o-s-e. First name Wyatt.
Wyatt with a 'Y'?
Yes... The. receptionist frowns.
Oh -- Ms. Pomerantz? Angle on a MIDDLE-AGED WOMAN walking past.
Ms. Pomerantz works in H.R..
What can I do for you, Mr,
Messer. Jonathan Messer. I'm an auditor from worth and Berman.
Are you sure you have the right firm?
Yes                                                             -- yes, I'm                         --- He works here. I've seen him working here. I net him here.
When was this?
A few weeks ago. Wyatt Bose. Wait... here. He hands her Wyatt's business card with the Rutherford Stern masthead on it. She studies it with a look of confusion.
I don't know what's going on, but I can assure you, there is nobody here named-
I've seen him in the halls                                      - for Chrissake we smoked pot in the conference room! Ms. Pomerantz abruptly frowns, when Jonathan spots a LAWYER -
Thank God. Look, I'm trying to find Wyatt.
Who?
Wyatt Bose. I saw you talking with him, cracking jokes in the coffee lounge. FLASH ON SAME SCENE: Wyatt looks up, eyes meet Jonathan's. Jonathan smiles in greeting... but Wyatt just nods coolly.
I crack jokes with a lot of people.
Hold on, you're telling me you don't--
Hey - easy with the hands, okay? Jonathan realizes he's got the man's sleeve in his fist. He lets go, spins back to Ms. Pomerantz.
He said he was in London with Mr. Rutherford, paperinga -
Mister Messer. Jonathan spins to find Ms. Pomerantz scowling at him. A beat.
Mr. Rutherford is presently recovering from hip surgery. In New Jersey. Jonathan glances around, to find everyone - lawyers, assistants, mail clerks                                         - all staring at him.
Wyatt - .by a MAN in his early 60's, his WIFE behind him; both strike us as wealthy, downtown patron-of-the-arts types.
Sorry, I                                                        -- I need to speak to Wyatt.
Excuse me - Wyatt?
Wyatt Bose. He lives here.
In this building? He must be new. See, we've been out of town the past2 months -
Not in this building - in this apartment.
But... I was right-here-with him... The Man takes a step back, catching his wife's equally wary expression, his hand making for the chain lock.
 Yes?
From a gallery! In Munich - the one that Herr Kleiner handles? The art dealer downstairs?
Downstairs? You must mean Mr. Moretti, but he's in the carpet business                                   -
But Wyatt smoke to him.
Unless it was in Italian I doubt he got very far. Jonathan steps back, looking like he's losing his mind.
Young man... are you all right?
Sono spiacente.
Jonathan takes the crinkled Chinese gum wrapper from his pocket, smoothes it in his hands, stares down at it with a look of longing... . when his eyes suddenly widen. He sees something inside, something he hadn't noticed. He unfolds it to reveal two words written in a feminine hand on the white underside: I'm sorry Jonathan quickly looks up, as if expecting someone else to share in this haunting discovery. of course, no one does. He stares back. down at it, bewildered, stunned - chilled.
TIGHT ON JONATHAN as we see something click in his head -
Sir, we asked around, nobody knows the guy
When I was working over here, you made a photocopy of my I.D..'
We do all freelancers, it's policy.
You have to. She looks at him', sees his desperation.
That's him? He was real cute. Only he wasn't a lawyer. He was a systems analyst, I think. He was here for a few days to work on the computers. RECEPTIONIST'S POV: of the photocopy in Jonathan's hand. It's of a Massachusetts Driver's License. Staring back up at us is Wyatt's smiling face.
I thought you said his name was Wyatt? PAN TO THE NAME beside the photo: Sansky. WilliamR. Jonathan is already running for the EXIT.
"...looking for William Roger Bansky, age                       31...was employed on a freelance basis by an on-site software consulting firm in Boston..."                                                                                                                                       --                                                     .Bansky recently relocated from the Chicago area..."                                                                         --      ".              'lavish lifestyle'..."                                         --   .a number of bad checks"                      . debts" .a young man on the run..." Tilt up to Jonathan, scribbling on a Post-it pad:
Hello?
Mr. Messer, it's Detective Russo returning your call. Jonathan freezes, tries not to sound panicked, his eyes fixed on the damning photos of himself and Simone Forester.
Oh - right, I was just - checking in, to see if you had any leads...
On that missing girl of yours? No, not yet.
 Oh - okay, thanks-
Are you sure you didn't know Simone Forester? The PHOTOS of Simone in his hands, Jonathan tenses...
I told you before -
I remember what you said.  And you weren't at the Hudson two nights ago?
I don't                                                    -- why are you-
Turns out among credit card charges made that night, there was one with your name. The card was declined.
I cancelled them all, the day they got stolen.
I see. I figured it didn't mean much - cards move quickly. It just struck me, you know.. The coincidence. Jonathan can hear the suspicion in her pause.
By the way, the morgue confirmed strangulation as cause of death. He found trace fibres of Kevlar in her neck wound.
Kevlar?
It's used in certain kinds of rope and string. Jonathan's eyes suddenly go wide; whip pan with his gaze   to the hall closet door.
Mr. Messer?
Yes                                                            - yes, I'm              --
Thought I lost you for a second.
I know, okay? I know your name isn't Wyatt Bose. I know you killed that woman. And I know you're trying to frame me for it, so - so - WHY? What the hell is going on? And where is she?! If you hurt her I swear to God I'll... Jonathan falters, unsure where he's going with this and realizing he's now talking to himself.
simply-hang-up. To-erase-and-record-a-new- messa ge---press-Star. Jonathan hesitates, hits the Star key. A new BEEP. Harder:
It's me. I need to talk to you. He hits pound. Breathes. At least he's done something. Suddenly from O.S. a faint creak. Jonathan spins, scans the room, grabs the nearest blunt object: his tennis trophy. QUICKLY CUT SHOTS of Jonathan searching his apartment, his trophy raised as a makeshift weapon.
He finally halts, uneasy but satisfied there's no one else here - when his home phone rings, startling him. RING... RING... RING... Jonathan hesitates. His machine picks up:
Chet Peterson calling - -- only it's not.
I understand you were out today. I left messages on your cell but never heard back, so I thought I'd try you at home. He slowly lowers his trophy as he listens, staring out the window at the dark night and empty street below.
Just want to make sure you're up to speed with Weiss Murphy, because the folks at Clute Nichols are expecting you...
They're our biggest client, so needless to say, make them your top priority... Jonathan takes out the crinkled Chinese gum wrapper. He stares at it with a look of longing: this is his Priority-
Are you free tonight?... Hello? He hangs up, chilled. Turns again to the pillar, steps closer - no sound. He hesitates... then turns and walks off.
It's "S." Jonathan just gapes across the divide of two subway tracks; he can't believe he's seeing her again... . when she starts to back away, almost as if she might run. Confused, Jonathan rushes to the edge of his platform.
wait! Wait, right there! Jonathan stands on the edge reeling, desperate to get,to her. He looks around, hears the distant: .nimble of afar. off train, and suddenly he does something we'd have never thought him capable of: he jumps onto the tracks! He lands hard, nearly breaking his ankle, but quickly scrambles to his feet, splashing in the sludge between rails, eyes darting along the track, anxious to avoid the third rail, ears attuned to the sound of that distant train as he races for
She glances back, utterly stunned to find Jonathan standing on the center divider, feet soaked in muck. Neither speaks for a moment, just staring at each other across the solitary track. Then:
I thought you were dead! She looks like she wants to say something, but doesn't. And all at once he's hit with a crushing realization:
You are in on this, aren't you?! She holds his eyes a moment longer, fighting back emotion - then she abruptly turns and starts back for the exit again.
How do you know him?  Damn it answer me! She halts, slowly looks back at him. of cam Through the club. He caught me trying to steal his wallet. Jonathan looks confused; she's struggling to stay composed but looks like she could break down at any moment.
So everything between us - was nothing? She fights back tears.
No - no... After that first night I tried to call it off, he said he'd kill me if I didn't go through with it.
Go through with what?
The plan. Get you out of the hotel room, slip out and meet up later for my money. Only I ran instead. He's been looking for me ever since. I have to leave the city -
Then why didn't you?
I didn't know how to find you - you were just a number in a cell phone, and
'is" Jonathan had taken that. I remembered you took this train -
Wait, Jonathan? I'm Jonathan. Jonathan Messer. You're                                                           -? O.S. we hear the approaching roar of an INCOMING TRAIN... ii S                                                             7f Did you go to the police?
I can't. He's framing me for murder. What?
He killed a woman from the club, someone I'd been with. "S" is shocked., instantly terrified. Clearly she had no idea. I/ S$f Jonathan, you have to leave! Do you understand? You need to get the hell out of here, he's going to kill you! The roar of the incoming train is growing LOUDER... Don't you understand? He's going to kill - - when the INCOMING TRAIN completely drowns him out... and swipes "S" out of Jonathan's view. Jonathan struggles to peer through the train windows but its passengers prevent him from getting a look at her. Just then the TRAIN DOORS OPEN WITH THE NOISE of passengers getting on and off. Panicked, Jonathan cranes his neck, trying to see her through the windows.
He boards the train; using it as a bridge, he pushes through passengers, desperate for an open door to the other side.
Shuttle to New York's Grand Central Station. Grand Central is next. He jumps off the train, in the direction she'd been walking -- only she's nowhere in sight. Jonathan spins frantically as the doors close and he hears the TRAIN START TO PULL AWAY. He runs alongside the train - desperately searching for a glimpse of her                                                  - no sign of her in any of the windows... .until the last car passes                                      - and there she is, standing at the rear observation window, her hand pressed to the pane, her tearful expression bidding him a heartbreaking goodbye. He stumbles to a devastated halt, eyes pleading vainly as he watches her recede, framed by the rectangle of window, directly beneath it the train's steel. exterior labelled the shuttle line's circled black and white S.
Let's see - there's one to New Haven, leaving in... six minutes. If you need to go farther, you can transfer from there. "S" peers anxiously around her, like someone hunted.
And that's the very next train leaving?
Suit yourself.
RACK BACK TO "S" as her eyes blink open in terror --
Jonathan Messer Jonathan hangs up. Takes an angry breath. Presses redial.
He hangs up again. But his face bears a blank, eerily driven expression. He hits redial again as he opens the door to
Jonathan hangs up and just stares at the phone in his hand, on the verge of something like a scream. He takes a breath. Presses redial once more. Only now it RINGS. Jonathan freezes. RING... RING... RING... RING... RING -- a CLICK of someone picking up, then SILENCE and faint wisps of static.
Hello...? Not a word from the other end. We barely make out BREATHING.
Wyatt? Is that you? Jonathan takes a tentative step forward, as if fearful that the least movement will cost him this connection.
Say something damn it! From the receiver we hear a well-exhaled breath. And then:
 Yesterday... Reeling, Jonathan grips the phone tighter to his ear.
All my troubles seemed so far away...
What do you want from me?
Now it seems as though -
Answer me!
- they're here to stay, Oh I believe
Why are you doing this to me?!
- in yester--
I'm going to find you, you hear me? I'm- CLICK. Dead air.
Hello?... Hello?! Jonathan SLAMS the phone down, tension in his face joined by a new emotion, something closer to. fury.
I'm going to find you.
Mr. Messer? Jonathan is too lost in thought to hear it.
Jonathan.
He glances up... to find Russo standing near the entryway - what's she doing here? He has no choice but to meet her.
I was gonna call, but I was in the area. Just doing some follow-up. Jonathan tries to mask his uneasiness.
Follow-up?
On that missing girl of yours. The.one whose name began with. an "S." Have any luck finding her? Jonathan absently tightens his grasp on his briefcase.
No. No luck.
I see. That's too bad. she studies him a cryptic beat, then smiles flatly.
Well, who knows, maybe she'll turn up yet. You have a good day, Mr. Messer. Jonathan nods tensely, then walks off, feeling her watching him from the curb as he goes.
His cell phone. He grabs it. Presses a key repeatedly - scanning                                                        - then hits SEND. Jonathan brings the phone to his ear, listens for the other end; then:
Are you free tonight?
Do you know Wyatt Bose?
 Excuse me?
What about William Bansky? Does that name-- She darts.for the "Door Open" button, but he blocks her path.
I swear to God I'll scream.
Please, I'm not trying to scare you, I just                                                            -- I'm looking for someone.and it's very important that I find him. she tries to push past him, again Jonathan blocks her.
He does this too - or he did. someone had to give him the numbers. Someone let him in. If I can-'find who it was that knew him, they might know where he's                                 -- she suddenly kicks him in the shin with a spiked heel. Jonathan grasps his leg - she presses the button and is out the opening doors before he's even looked up. SOUND ADVANCE: TENSE CLACKING of computer keys...
I need to ask you something, it's incredibly important...
He pauses to unfold his now scotch-taped photocopy, shows it to her. She freezes, eyes fixed on the license photo. Jonathan braces himself for her departure                       - when she stares back up at him in scared but clear recognition.
You told him. About this. A beat, and she nods, crushing out her other cigarette.
Wait - thank you.  Have you ever run into him again?
Getz?
Jonathan, you're home early - Only when he looks up, she finds the young man in the overcoat isn't Jonathan. It's Wyatt.
Oh - je suis desole. My mistake. Wyatt flashes her an icy smile, continues down the steps. Solange watches him walk away, a puzzled look on her face.
who's James Getz?
A guy I roomed with freshman year at Princeton. on Jonathan's monitor we see he's on a web site for Princeton University alumni. He types in: Getz, James. A beat - then: "No match." A long list of G names follows. Jonathan scrolls down the list, but there's no Getz.
Shit. Jonathan exhales, about to log off - when a name among the H's jumps out at him: Holloway. Reed. Jonathan stares at it tensely - then clicks on the name. "Sort no contact information available." Jonathan thinks a moment - then tries a search engine, types: "Holloway Reed" then decides to add the word "missing." An article appears. From the Chicago Tribune: "BODY OF MISSING BUSINESSMAN FINALLY DISCOVERED." A head-shot style photograph shows a man in his early 40s whom we recognize from Black Business Suit's story. Beneath his photo, his name: "Reed Holloway."
Jonathan glances up at the Hotel employee manning the desk.
Can I print this out?
Running toward the blaze, he speeds past a BLACK BMW parked across the street, engine running. It suddenly shifts into gear and peels out in a fast turn. Jonathan spins               - something about it troubling him - but the BMW is already gone. He continues racing toward his building... The neon "FLEURS DE SOLANGE" sign crackles and sparks in the flame. Through blown out windows, piles of burning flowers emit what must be an awful stench. Two EMS WORKERS are loading a gurney on which Solange lays, burned and half-aware, but alive, when Jonathan rushes over. She manages to open her eyes, her voice barely audible:
Jonathan... He squeezes her hand as she's lifted into the ambulance.
 Is she going to be okay?
Yeah, she'll make it.
The ambulance doors SLAM shut. A hand grabs Jonathan's arm. He spins                                                        - it's a FIRE WORKER.
I live here.
Lucky we were able to contain it somewhat. Better get your valuables together.
 How did it start?
We're not sure. Maybe a bad fuse.
CLOSE ON THE FILE. Stuffed with paper. But not bank statements... Copies and copies of photographs of Jonathan with Simone Forester. Some we've seen, some new. Jonathan hunts through more files, his breathless nausea telling us the contents of each and every file have been swapped out with photos.
He opens another at random - and freezes: it's a photo of Jonathan and "S" walking in Chinatown. He scans through others, shots of them in the restaurant, entering the Hotel Lotus... TIGHT ON JONATHAN, terrified by the horrific implication -
Mr. Messer? Jonathan gasps as he looks up to find the Fire Worker in the doorway. He quickly shuts the file.
Just                                                            - give me a minute.
That everything? Jonathan regards his minimal possessions, realizes how little evidence there is of a life. A wrenching sense of isolation.
I guess it is.
You got someone you can stay with?
It's fifty for the night. Jonathan fishes out his film cannister, and parts with what he discovers are his last three                                 $20s.
Unable to sleep, Jonathan has emptied his briefcase contents onto the bed. He stares at one of Wyatt's photos of him and "S." She's smiling up at him. EXTREME CLOSE ON THE IMAGE OF HER FACE. The smile, frozen in time, at once haunting and heartbreaking. He gently sets the photo down beside the Chicago Tribune article he'd printed on the unsolved murder of Reed Holloway . His eyes drift to the article, and something suddenly occurs to him - FLASH ON: THE PHOTOGRAPH IN "WYATT'S.BROWNSTONE" of Wyatt with bleached hair styled in a loose spike -- IN THE ARTICLE'S PHOTO, Holloway sports an almost identical look.-His eyes move to the date of the article: "May 17."
Jonathan on the phone, a business card in hand.
This is Detective Russo, NYPD, badge number 274655.                                                                                                                     1   just need some information from you guys. Jonathan sits in suspense, awaiting a response. Finally -
You've got a case, a missing person named William Bansky. I'm wondering if you can tell me the date he was last seen?
That's it, thanks. Jonathan quickly hangs up, equally encouraged and chilled by the connection he's made. TILT DOWN to a post-it, on which he's scribbled: "BOSE = BANSKY = HOLLOWAY." To this he adds: "= JAMES GETZ"
M'kay, if you'll just swipe your ATM card. She gestures to a small punch pad to Jonathan's right.
Actually, my card was stolen.
Mmm'kay... do you see those two taupe colored telephones over there? Just pick up either one and you'll be connected with our automated system.
The thing is, I already used your automated system and...look, this passport's all I have left, it's the only thing proves who I am and now I'm down to like my last ten dollars here, so... Jonathan's cool is cracking. The Teller wrinkles her brow.
Mm'kay, if you press "0" on either phone? A customer service representative will -
Give me a goddamn break.
Sir, there's no need for profanity.
 Oh no? In the last few days I've seen a woman I thought might be dead turn up alive and a woman I assumed was alive turn up dead, both at the hands of a guy about whom everything I know is apparently a lie. I've had my building set on fire, my neighbor nearly killed, and my apartment ransacked. So please forgive my language, but it's been one fuck of a week. The stunned Teller stares back at him slack-jawed.
Look, I know I'm just another face on this side of the glass, I get that. But I'm begging you, as one human being to another, please let me into your life just long enough to help me out here. Please. The Teller stares back at him a beat - and nods. She starts quickly typing into her monitor, finally looks up.
I'm showing that card as having been sent out four days ago. It definitely went out. We even heeded the change of address request.
Well, like I                                                    -- wait, what request?
Apparently you informed the bank of an address change? She swivels her monitor so he can see.
Mr. Jonathan Messer,                                            140                      E.   91st Street -
A room as empty as the others - with the exception of a small pile of envelopes beneath a window in a far corner. Jonathan slowly nears...to find it's a stack of mail. He picks up an envelope -- O.S. the CREAK of a door hinge. Jonathan whips around -- no one behind him. He steps out of the room to investigate. We remain alone in the empty room an excruciating beat... .until Jonathan finally steps back in, only slightly at ease. He returns to the stack of mail, picks up an envelope. He reads: "Mr. Jonathan Messer 140 E.                           91    St..." Eyes wide, he hurriedly flips through the rest of the mail - all addressed to him at this address. Jonathan still staring at this mail in disbelief, when he finds at the bottom of the stack: another PHOTOGRAPH. It's of "S" standing fearfully on the subwa latform across the track from Jonathan. And suddenly Jonathan is gripped with fear, unaware of a blurred, nearing intruder...
Long time no see.
Jonathan spins round, Wyatt's standing there with a gun. It's pointing directly at Jonathan.
I have some instructions. Follow them and I might let her live.
Where is she?
This should've been simpler. I frame you, you panic...
Where is she?! A terrifying silence - Jonathan erupts:
Goddamn it tell me what you did to--
Press pause on the questions and listen. The brokerage firm you're auditing is Clute Nichols. As a standard part of that audit you're temporarily privy to all client accounts as well as access codes required for transactions. At                                   11                              p.m. tonight you're going to skim from those accounts a total of                                             $200 million and transfer that money to an account I've established overseas.
I can't                                                         - I have no idea how to even-
I know you don't. But I do. Your passport.  Now, please. Jonathan takes it out and tosses it to him. Wyatt catches it. And hands Jonathan an ENVELOPE.
It's all in there.                                              11                              pm tonight. Their banks will just be opening.
It won't work - they screen for stuff like this. It'll be discovered eventually.
I can live with eventually. I always have.
This account overseas                                   - it's in my name, isn't it? A moment of tense silence. Jonathan just stares back hard a quiet beat; then:
Why'd you pick me? Wyatt raises a brow, vaguely amused the question.
You answered the ad, Jonathan.  "Feeling all alone out there? Have a great job, fine personality and good looks to match, but no time to.meet that special someone? Help is just a phone call away -"
The ad - in Money magazine...
Why should I believe you? Everything you told me was lies.
Not lies, Jonathan. Foreplay. And now... now you're fucked. He grins his 'charming' grin and starts for the door.
Remember: be smart. I'll be watching you. And... feel free to take a shower, looks like you could do with one. The front door slams. Jonathan just stands there, staring shell-shocked at the envelope.
As he crosses the street a CAR HORN BLARES - WHIP AROUND to find a car barrelling at us. Jonathan dives out of the way an instant before the car would have hit him. Face first in the gutter, scraped and gasping, Jonathan peers up to see Wyatt's BLACK BMW speeding away.
Mr. Peterson, one of the audit managers is here to see you. Jonathan Messer?
Jonathan, good to see you again!
- reverse angle to find a YOUNG MAN we've never seen before.
Actually, I was just looking for Fred Whipple's office?
Jonathan, good to see you again!
Well, I have to say, your resignation comes as something of a surprise. Most of our auditors seem to like the freedom the position affords.
Absolutely.
So do you have any plans?
Yes. I'm going to travel. I want to see the world. Peterson nods benignly.
What's taking you?
Jonathan says nothing. We can hear Wyatt getting tenser:
I said what's taking you?
I wondered if you were monitoring this.
Don't worry about what I'm doing. Just finish the transaction. Now.
Not until I see her.  The transfer's impossible without an access code. And there's no way I'm entering it until I'm sure that she's safe. So you tell me. How do we do that? Wyatt still remains unnervingly silent. We tighten on Jonathan, holding his breath, any plan he's concocting clearly hinging on this...
 You have a wireless connection? Jonathan lets out a brief exhalation.
Hello?
May I ask you a personal question? Jonathan spins around, stares frostily into Wyatt's magnetic smile. With Wyatt's new look, they could be brothers. Except Wyatt looks clean and crisp, Jonathan dishevelled and tense. Wyatt eyes the bag in Jonathan's hand.
Where is she?
In one of the rooms. Safe.  I got us a table.
Two Macallan 25 year. Enjoy. The Waitress leaves. Wyatt raises his glass.
To friendship. Jonathan just stares back at Wyatt.
Bansky's dead, isn't he?
He was dead when I met him. Just like you. The rest was a mere formality.  Of course he didn't have your bargaining chip. Speaking of which...
Not until I see her. She's the only reason I'm here and not at the police.
I told you, she's in a room. Alive.
Give me the key then. Wyatt considers this, then takes out an electronic key card and slides it across the table. Of course there's nothing on the key card to indicate a room number.
As soon as you're done, I'll tell you the room number.
Not good enough. Wyatt reaches for the key card; as he does we glimpse a handgun concealed by his suit.
You won't let her live. You killed all the others, you'll have to kill us too.
Hey, I like you, okay? You'll be fine.
 You like me.
I do, Jonathan. In my way. After all, you're my creation. I'm the one who gave you life.
Don't you get it? It was her, not you! She's the one. She gave me life! You can steal my identity, but not what's here.
He puts his hand on his heart. Wyatt is startled by Jonathan's passionate outburst.
Yeah, well, I'm weeping big wet ones for you both. Now, let's get on with it.
Wyatt watches intensely as Jonathan starts to type -- then pauses, looking confused. Jonathan quickly reaches around. to the back of his laptop, feels an empty jack - and suddenly turns pale.
What is it?
My wireless modem - I must have left it in the conference room. I can't get back online. Wyatt glares at Jonathan, seething.
You stupid fuck.
I can go back there and-
No.  Get up.
They don't let you use your own computer. Wyatt takes out a hundred dollar bill, gives it to Jonathan.
They will now. Jonathan takes the hundred, and heads into
You forgot your. own room number?
I just checked in and it's been a hectic day. Look at me! The Employee looks uneasy - something about the ill-concealed tension in Jonathan's eyes.
You could just ask at the front desk. I'm sure they can-
I really don't have time, okay? Jonathan presses the bill into the Employee's palm, peers up at the clock again: the big hand clicks over to 11:30.
Pardon me, but may I ask you something - personal? Wyatt quickly looks up at her, momentarily confused.
Are you waiting for me?
Room 907.
907                                                             - thanks.
What the hell are you -- And then he sees Auburn Hair glance unsurely at the Eloise portrait, then at her cell phone's clock -- and now realizes:
Motherfucker! He jumps up, shoves Auburn Hair aside - eyes darting to the Business Center to find Jonathan no longer behind the glass, just his laptop resting on the counter where he'd been standing.
- when his eyes land on something in the hallway: the fire alarm. He suddenly reaches out to stop the elevator door just as it's about to close.
We've got alarms on two - wait, three floors                                                          -
Fire, I know - I'll be out in a minute. The scared Cleaning Woman nods and hurries off as Jonathan quickly slides the key in the slot. The light blinks green. He jerks the door handle and throws open the door to find -
resting; it's a dense, rectangular block - only when Jonathan taps it, he realizes: it's hollow. He immediately seizes it, yanks it from the wall... And there she is, lying face down in a lifeless heap: "S". Panicked, Jonathan rushes to her, turns her over. She looks semi-conscious, hands and mouth duct-taped. Jonathan hurriedly removes the tape, gently shakes her, terrified by how lifeless she appears - - when her eyes widen, focus on his face. Before he can say anything, she throws her arms around his neck, presses her face to his chest.
 You're alive. He's struck by these words, and nods, holding her face in his hands as he kisses her urgently and gratefully.
What do you say we stick together from now on?
I'd like that.
TIGHT ON WYATT. As yet unnoticed by Jonathan, he remains halted on a stair, bodies squeezing past him. TIGHTER ON HIS EYES. That predatory gleam. EVEN TIGHTER ON HIS GUN, tucked carefully at his side. CLOSE ON JONATHAN AND "S" three stories above, starting to descend -- when Jonathan notices the hint of disruption in the flow of bodies below. Immediately wary, he leans over the railing, but can't get a good look. He grips the railing, leans further over... and his eyes find Wyatt's staring right back up at him --
He's down there! I saw him -
Oh God -
Up - we've got to go up! Clutching her arm, Jonathan and "S" turn back up, against the flow of traffic. Stories above, less and less people are evacuating. ANGLE ON WYATT as he presses upward, his steely gaze even more rapacious. The crowd is thinning as Jonathan and "S" race upward as well. INSERT JONATHAN'S POV: a shaky, dizzying blur as they race higher and higher... INSERT WYATT'S POV: from below but gaining on them, Jonathan and "S". appearing and disappearing with each twist and turn of the staircase... CLOSE ON JONATHAN AND "S", desperately racing upwards... CLOSE ON WYATT bounding the stairs, footsteps echoing, the staircase now empty and quiet, save for the footfall of Jonathan and "S"                                                 - no more than three floors above Wyatt now... Wyatt slows his pace, leans into the railing, takes aim... CLOSE ON JONATHAN AND "S" still hurrying up - when a shot rings out, a jolting echo clanging through the stairwell, the
bullet missing them by inches. "S" screams, Jonathan tugs her with him                                                         - - when a second shot rings out, the bullet punching a dent into the underside of the stairs just overhead. ON WYATT, realizing he needs a cleaner shot, taking the stairs even harder in pursuit, all merciless intensity.
Come on! She grabs his hand, and they waste no time disappearing into the mass of bodies. They keep moving. Shoulder to shoulder within the swell of partiers, they fit right in - instantly anonymous                - though not as smartly attired. BACK TO THE STAIRWELL DOOR as Wyatt enters the party, scanning the dense crowd, all senses alert. INSERT WYATT'S POV: just a mass of successful, attractive, partying young men and women. There's no way to pick Jonathan and "S" out. Wyatt's smirk fades to an icy glare as he stalks the periphery. WITHIN THE CROWD "S" clutches Jonathan's hand, their heads ducked low as they press forward... CLOSE ON WYATT, frustration gnashing at him as he quickens his pace, the idiotic enthusiasm of the crowd enraging him, sweat beading on his face                                        -- -- when suddenly the music stops. Wyatt frowns., eyes darting. CLOSE ON JONATHAN AND "S" glancing around in confusion -
Ladies and Gentlemen, we need everyone to evacuate the hotel. This way please.
The crowd noise resumes, as the throngs begrudgingly start for the exits. ON JONATHAN AND "S," doing their best to stay concealed within the exiting crowd. Angle on Wyatt pushing his way through the crush, shoving people aside, trying to find them - - when he suddenly stops. He has an idea. He takes out his cell phone. BACK TO JONATHAN AND "5" within the crowd - - when Jonathan's cell phone RINGS. CLOSE ON JONATHAN as his eyes widen in panic. RING... He quickly fumbles for it, tries to turn it off        - - but it's too late... WHIP ACROSS THE CROWD to Wyatt, grinning wider. He's spotted them. In an instant he is bee- lining through the packed suits. WIDE SHOT OF THE ROOFTOP as the throngs are clearing out. Jonathan grabs "S" as they duck, racing across the dark, rooftop, looking for a place to hide. They take cover behind a large venting duct near the ledge - gasping to catch their breath... Stepping back, "S's" foot clinks against something: a stray iron railing post. She reaches. down for it, starts to lift it - - when Wyatt's hand darts in and grasps the other end. She looks up in terror - when Wyatt punches her violently, knocking her to the ground. Jonathan rushes to her - only to be blocked by Wyatt, gripping the iron rod tight.
Nice try back there, Jonathan. Looks like you picked up a thing or two from me. Jonathan tries to strike him - when with a lightning quick movement Wyatt whips the iron rod through the air, cracking Jonathan across the face.
Killer instinct, pall
Jonathan crumples, his glasses knocked to the ground. CLOSE ON WYATT as he grips the iron rod like a tennis racquet, steps into position                                   - - and brings the rod down on Jonathan with ruthless tennis strokes: Backhand! Bam! Forehand! Bam! Slice! Bam! Jonathan can barely peer up, bloody and beaten. He hears Wyatt drop the iron rod...
Me? No - no, I'm just a face in the crowd. I'm a tourist, just passing through. JONATHAN'S POV: Wyatt's face presses closer, now almost in focus as he presses Jonathan's torso back over the ledge -
As for you, you had your fun... Wyatt presses closer, crushing Jonathan's back to the edge.
Now we're going to go back down... INSERT JONATHAN'S HAND reaching into Wyatt's pocket, his fingers fumbling for the cell phone                            .
We're going to get that laptop... CLOSE ON JONATHAN'S FINGERS blindly prodding - he has the phone now - his fingers feel for the antenna...
And we're going to finish this, once and for - - when with all his strength Jonathan jams the cell phone up into Wyatt's eye, the antenna punching into the retina.
Wyatt's grasp slips from Jonathan's collar as he stumbles back, cupping a hand to his wound as he swings his gun toward Jonathan - - when with every ounce of strength Jonathan charges, Wyatt's shot missing him as Jonathan slams him into the ledge wall, seizing the momentum to turn himself - - as Wyatt falls right over the edge of the hotel rooftop...
Yours, I believe.
Thanks, Frank. She winds the toy up. They watch it make it's funny way down the sidewalk.
Can I ask you something personal? She nods.
What's your name? "S" considers the request, then smiles gently, leans in close and whispers the answer in his ear. Jonathan gazes at her a moment - whatever her name is, it must be perfect.
So what now? She smiles up at him.
Yes. I'm free. They gaze at each other. We leave Jonathan and "S" to their privacy, pulling back as they continue talking, continuing away until we're
