I don't want to be a product of my environment. I want my environment to be a product...of me.
Years ago, we had the Church. That was only a way of saying we had each other. The Knights of Columbus were head-breakers. They took over their piece of the city.
Twenty years after an Irishman couldn't get a job, we had the presidency. That's what the niggers don't realize. If I got one thing against the black chaps it's this. No one gives it to you. You have to take it.
 Don't make me have to come down here again.
Won't happen again, Mr. C.
Carmen's developing into a fine young lady. You should be proud. You get your period yet, Carmen?
You Johnny Sullivan's kid?
You live with your grandmother?
Yeah.
Get him three loaves of bread. And a couple of half gallons of milk. And some soup.
Do you like comic books?
You do good in school?
Yes.
That's good. I did good in school. They call that a paradox.
Buy yourself some makeup. Keep the change.
You ever want to earn a little extra money, you come by L street. You know where I am on L street.
Thank you.
To you, O Lord we commend the soul of Alphonsus, your Servant; in the sight of this world he is now dead; in your sight may he live forever. Forgive whatever sins he committed through human weakness and in your goodness grant him everlasting peace.
Amen.
May the angels lead you into paradise; May the martyrs come to welcome you and take you to the holy city, The new and eternal Jerusalem.
Church wants you in your place. What sort of man wants to be kept in his place? Do this don't do that, kneel, stand, kneel, stand...I mean if you go for that sort of thing...
I don't know what to do for you. A man makes his own way. No one gives it to you. You have to take it.  Non serviam.
James Joyce.
Him and Lucifer. And me.  Guineas from the North End and down Providence, tried to tell me what to do...And something maybe happened to them.
Jeez, she fell funny.
Frank, you gotta see somebody.
You decide to be something, you can be it. That's what they don't tell you, the Church.
When I was your age, they would say, we become cops or criminals. Today, what I'm saying to you is this: When you are facing a loaded gun...
What's the difference?
The slug enters the skull by forming a small entrance hole. Blood and brain matter is ejected backwards from this hole. The bullet, which may expand, fragment or tumble, then passes through the brain...
Fucking firemen are getting pussy for the first time in the history of fire. Or pussy.
What are you looking at? Forget it. Your father was a janitor, and his son's only a cop.
 You're in trouble if you're "only" anything.
Don't tell me I'm looking at the first dickhead-American president of the United States.
The Massachusetts State Police has a long tradition of excellence. Your graduation today solidifies your acceptance into one of the finest law enforcement agencies in our nation. As the Governor of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, I am confident each and every one of you will serve with distinction, honor and integrity.
School's out. You earned it. Yeah, no more teachers, no more books.
Begin.
She tells me, you never finish anything.  You finish the police course you get taken care of again baby.  So after graduation  I get a blowjob again.
That's great. Your mom must be a wonderful woman.
Fuck yourself.
Look at it this way, you're a black guy in Boston. You don't need any help from me to be completely fucked.
Ways to get ahead, though, man, ways to get ahead.
 To where.
This is not the regular police. This is the state police. Your training will illustrate the difference. What's the difference?
 Rage issues and lower median IQ.
You say something?
Sir, I was agreeing with you about our obvious superiority to other forms of police, sir.
We're not superior, we're the best.
Sir, yes sir.
 Douchebag!
Congratulations on passing the detective exam, and welcome to the Special Investigation Unit.
 Whoop-di fuckin' do.
We won't be working directly together, you'll be working for Captain Ellerby, but I like to see everybody.  You're a worker, you rise fast.
Like a twelve year old's dick. 
Thank you, Sergeant.
My pleasure.
 Thank you, sir.
 Congratulations.
Thanks, hon.
 You can go in there now.
You can sit.
So.
Do you know what we do here?   My section?
Sir, yes, sir, I have an idea...
Whoa, let's say you have no idea and leave it there. No idea. Zip, none. If you had an idea about what we do we would not be good at what we do. We would be cunts. Are you calling us cunts?
 Staff Sergeant Dignam has a style of his own. I'm afraid we all have to deal with it.
 You have family connections down in Southie. Through your father. Tell us about your uncle Jackie.
Uncle Jackie was a carpet layer for Jordan Marsh.
Uncle Jackie was a small-time bookie who tended bar at the Vets in Somerville. 
SGT. DIGNAM He got popped by Nicastro in '95. They found his body out by the airport.
That's right.  I remember his funeral.
 Closed casket?
That's right.
You tell anybody at Deerfield - that is, before you got kicked out for whaling on a gym teacher with a folding chair - you had an uncle met his demise like that?
I got a question. How fucked up are you?
What you got?  "Staff Sergeant". In four years you're a sergeant.
SIU. What a country.
 Perfect.
I don't mind going it alone. If you could go it alone you might get somewhere yourself.
We're cops. This isn't "somewhere".
I know you're a worker. I might be able to do something for you. You got any suits at home or you like coming to work looking like you're gonna invade Poland.
Let's look at the rest of the family tree. Your maggot uncle Tommy Costigan--he's another goof-- got busted selling guns to federal officers. Among many, many, many other departures from, ah, "normative behavior".
What's this got to do with me?
Why are you pretending to be a cop?
This unit is new, and you are the newest members of it. You have been selected for it on the basis of intelligence and aptitude. 
ELLERBY This is an elite unit. Our job is to smash--or at least marginally disrupt-- (he gets the laugh he expected) --organized crime in this city by our own efforts and by enhanced cooperation with the FBI, represented here by Agent Frank Lazio-- (show the deeply unreliable dandy LAZIO) and we will do it. And by organized crime in this city...you know who we mean.
 That's Jackie Costigan...that's an old picture. Jackie met his demise.
Last known photograph.
Costello uses three key guys. There's Fitzy...off the boat psycho...lives in Brockton with his mother who looks like she's straight out of "Going My Way"... There's Delahunt, muscle, and here's French...the number one. But of course the rock star is...[you know who]
We've done a briefing book. Read up. 
ELLERBY I want to have any and all ideas, so I can pass them off as my own.  Do your jobs and you will rise fast. You're in the best position in the department. Let's go to work.
Your old man was a hump from Southie. Baggage-handler at the airport. Family's all criminals except your old man.
And one priest. Since you seem to know everything.
I ain't sure about him, either. (ALT: Last I heard he was happily married to a 12 year old boy and living on a beach in Thailand.) Family's dug into the Southie projects like ticks. Lifers down there. Three decker men at best. You grew up, however, up the North shore. La di  da.
You were kind of a double kid, I bet, right? One kid with your old man. One kid with your mother. Upper middle class in the week, and then dropping your 'r's and hanging in the Southie projects with daddy the donkey on the weekends. I got that right?
You have different accents? You did, didn't you. (You little fuckin' snake.) You were different fuckin' people.
You a psychiatrist?
If I was I'd ask you why you're a Statie making thirty grand a year. And I think if I were Sigmund fucking Freud himself I wouldn't get an answer. So tell me, what's a lace curtain motherfucker like you doing in the Staties?
Well. Families are always rising or falling in America. Am I right?
 Who said that?
Hawthorne.
What's the matter, smartass? You don't know any fuckin' Shakespeare?
We have a question. You want to be a cop, or do you want to appear to be a cop. It's an honest question. Lot of guys want to appear to be cops. Gun. Badge. Pretend they're on TV...
A lot of em just want to slam a nigger's head through a plate glass window.
I'm all set without your personal job application, Sergeant.
 What the fuck did you say to me, trainee?
Sir, with all due respect, sir, what is it you want from me?
Hey asshole, he can't help you. I know what you are, and what you aren't. I'm the best friend you ever had on the face of the earth. I'm gonna help you understand something: You're no fuckin' cop.
He's right.  We deal in deceptions here. But what we don't deal with is self- deception. In five years, you might be anything else in the world, but you won't be a Massachusetts State trooper.
You sure of that?
I'm sure of that.
Guaranteed.
 You don't have much family.
 I don't have any family.
What's this I hear from Stephanie about you becoming a policeman?
You mean Stephanie who was the only one who came to my father's funeral? That Stephanie?
That Stephanie.
Nothing much to it Uncle Edward.
Are you trying to prove something to the family?
When you say "family", what do you mean? You?
You always question everything, don't you?
Yeah, well, maybe it would have done you some good to have a question from time to time. "Am I an asshole?" "Are my kids a mess?" "Is my wife a money-grubbing whore?" Those are questions. (the UNCLE starts to leave) "Have I been good to my dying sister or am I just pretending to be?"  Too late now, right?
Do you need some money for the funeral?
When my mother dies we don't have any connection. You got it?
This is it. Nice. You've got high ceilings, parquet floors. There's a lock on the fridge in case you have eating issues.... Joke...not a very good one.  So, you're a policeman?
 I'm a State Police detective.
 State Police Detective. You a married State Police Detective?
 ...No.
Oh, cuz it's big and I wondered if a cop...
I have a cosigner.
You intend to have a housemate. That's cool.
Give me the fuckin' papers.
So what do I do?
During the war, Churchill used river mines. He'd float them down the rivers into Germany. They'd either hit something, or not. That's what we'll use you for. I'll float you down the river. The rest will happen. Or it won't...  
QUEENAN By the way, this isn't police work for peanuts. There's money behind this operation. You won't be paid as a cop, but there is a bonus involved. Tax free.
Luck of the Irish. All that and you're still young enough to fuck undergraduates.
We can't conceal that you've been a trainee. You'll be convicted of a crime. We're thinking that a guilty plea to assault and battery might make sense.
Given your nature.
You'll serve enough jail time to convince anyone that it's no set- up. You'll be on probation. The whole nine yards.
I need you, pal. You've already pretended to be a Costigan from South Boston.
Every weekend...Sergeant.
Perfect.
Do it again. For me.
You're Bill Costigan?
Who wants to know?
Nothin.' I know a Sean Costigan. L Street.
My cousin.
Connected but not too bright-- (BILLY looks at him with an only-I-can-insult-my- cousin look) No offense.
Sorry I'm late.
Staff Sergeant Dignam is our liaison with the undercover section. Their undercover work is extensive. He's here to give us his report. Sgt. Dignam.
OK. They're out there, my people. They're like the fuckin' Indians. You're not gonna see them. You're not gonna hear about them except through me or Captain Queenan. You will not, ever, know the identity of undercover people. This shit hole, unfortunately, has more fuckin' leaks than the Iraqi navy.
Fuck yourself.
I'm tired from fucking your wife.
How's your mother?
Good. She's tired from fucking my father.  OK, today, girls, what I got for you is microprocessors.
Somebody, as you may already know, stole one hundred microprocessors from the Mass Processor Corp out Route 128. They're the kind of processors they put into computers that can put a cruise missile up the ass of a camel from the other side of the planet. That's what they do out there on "America's Technology Highway". Worth a hundred grand apiece. Guy worked for the company two months walked out the door with a box of processors on Tuesday, has a ticket booked for Florida on Wednesday, but on Thursday he gets found in a dumpster. You know where this dirt ball started his life? Southie projects.
What was his name? The, ah, departed.
Myles Kennefick. Got the job with a forged UMass transcript. UMass Boston, which incidentally happens to be in...
South Boston?
Who forged your transcript, dickhead?
I know that guy. His father runs the Hibernian Liquor Mart. Kennefick's.
We are not here to solve the "Case of the Dead Scumbag". We are here to nail Costello.
We got a guy says that   he hears Costello is moving the   processors to China...that he set   up the whole fuckin' job and popped   Kennefick. (LAZIO is writing, lawyerish.) You don't want to miss   it if Costello takes a dump.
We'd miss less if your informants were available to us, and of course to the FBI ...
Without asking for details, do you have anyone in with Costello presently?
Maybe. Maybe not. Maybe fuck yourself. My theory on Feds is they're like mushrooms. Feed 'em shit and keep in the dark. You girls have a nice day.
Billy?
Aunt Cathy?
Good to see you. Good to see you.
They said you were in the Staties, I couldn't believe it.
I got kicked out about four months ago.
It was in the papers.
Well. So you know.
And why are we graced with your presence?
I brought your mother some pictures of my father.
My mother had them. My mother's dead.
 I'm sorry. I'm sorry for your troubles.
I was at a funeral myself. Myles Kennefick, knew him in school. Beat the fuck out of him seven or eight times as a matter of fact.  You workin'?
No.
When did I see you after that?
Not for a long time. Down the cape after Rose's wedding. I think.
Fuck, oh shit. I remember that, dude. I had that fuckin' buck knife, right, and I cut all the brass numbas off the doors at the hotel. I was trippin'...All of them. That was a night.
Listen, I got twenty thousand dollars when my mother died. Insurance.
Yeah?
In your line of work, if I gave you ten thousand dollars what could you give me back?
My line of work... I'm not in that line of work just presently because I don't have ten thousand dollars. As a matter of fact I have never had ten thousand dollars.
That's what I'm saying.
You know what we usually say at these moments.
You fuckin' moron. What are you talking about? I'm not a cop. I'm your cousin.
Fuckin' Ricans think they know everything. If they knew shit they wouldn't be Puerto Ricans.
 Double the money, double the fun.  Cinnamon toasty apple bun... R is for Ricans...P is for pigs...
I can't stop drinkin.
Why would you even think of stopping drinking?
He don't like it. He don't like drinkin...he don't like fightin...  ...he says stay out of the bars... You know, we're not even supposed to do this on this side of fuckin' Worcester.
Who says?
He says. Costello says. God says, as far as you're concerned.
Not a cop. He got out of the joint three weeks ago. Dead up. He talks like his shit don't stink but he's good people.
Cunt cop.
I knew his father. I liked his uncle Jackie better.
Uncle Jackie was excellent.
A cranberry juice.
Get your hands off me.
Do you know me?
No.
I'm the guy who tells you there are guys you hit and there are guys you don't. That's not quite a guy you can't hit, but it's almost a guy you can't hit, so I'm fucking ruling on it right now that you don't hit him, understand?
Yeah. Excellent. Fine.
I know you. I know your family. Also I know you do another drug deal with your idiot fucking cop- magnet cousin I'll forget your grandmother was very nice to me and cut your fucking nuts off. You understand that?
Yeah.
Now you know me.
Yeah.
What are you drinking?
Cranberry juice.
What is it, your period?
Get him a cranberry juice.
 That's Jackie's nephew.
Oh...
Oh, what?
Get the fuck out of here.
Mrs. Kennefick, Myles and I were in school together. Myles was behind me in school but I knew him. I will get those responsible. Don't you want to see us catch whoever used him to do a robbery and then killed him?
Allegedly.
 "Allegedly".
If he was killed he probably did something wrong.
You don't mean robbery do you, Mrs Kennefick? That's not what you think he did wrong.
Wave to your girlfriend.
I mean fuck yourself.
You get that?
"Allegedly" or "fuck yourself?"
Welcome to the neighborhood.
Cut 'em here.
Bye, bye.
Making a house call?
Have I seen you professionally?
No, no. I know what you do. I know who you are.
When guys have to "use their "service revolvers" in the "course of duty" they get to talk to you about their "feelings" and whatnot.
No. Oh, I know how it goes. You're a mental health professional.
 I have an appointment on this floor.
That's good. They're all fuckin' crazy on that floor.  I'm one floor up.
Oh, fancy policeman.
That's right. Fancy.
Are you a Statie?
Yeah, I'm also getting my law degree.
Suffolk, nights?
They don't run Harvard Law at night, last time I checked.
When was the last time you checked?
Before I went to fucking Suffolk.
I went to U Mass. I wasn't insulting you.
Well I thought you were, and for that you have to take me to dinner.
Maybe you could shoot someone and I'd have to see you professionally.
Whatever it takes. I'll stab someone in the heart with an icepick right now if it gets me dinner with you.
I don't need a card, I'm a detective.
I'm only joking. Nice to meet you... "Madolyn".
 I didn't know about your tail until I saw it myself. I couldn't call, I had the other guy with me. Blue sedan and a white delivery van, fucked up with graffiti on the side. The van is audio surveillance. OK, have a nice day.
You guys from Providence?
What have you done to my place! Get out of here.
You also do probation work, right?
That's right. I see "violent offenders".
Bad guys.
That's one way to look at it.   Not necessarily.
That have this and they don't have duck l'orange.
Was your dinner OK?
 Oh, the lobster was excellent. I just thought, French restaurant...
I'm waiting for you to make your move.
I don't know what you're gonna do, but if it moves I'm going to arrest it .
What's it like having people "find themselves?" All day long people "finding themselves." Does it get messy with all those feelings flying around the room?
Why, does that make you uncomfortable?
You know what Freud said about the Irish?
Yes I do.
If you actually do I'll see you again.
Who says I want to see you again?
 Don't you?
Yes, course I do.  What Freud said about the Irish is We're the only people impervious to psychoanalysis.
Tough luck for you with a client list of Mick cops, isn't it. "Opening up"? Good luck to you.
Why do you do it?
Some people do get better.
Fair enough.
Sometimes, though, I want people to forget about their personal bullshit and do their jobs.
Including the criminals?
If they don't do their jobs you don't have one.
Me? I'd just arrest innocent people. I'll arrest you right now.
You're trouble.
You don't know the half of it.
Do you know who I am?
No.
You met my friend, Mister French the other night.
Is his real name Mister French?
No.  Come with me.  I'm not the cops. I'm not askin' you.
You know something, they just do not stop having the Mafia in Providence, and this can cause problems for me.
Those guys you tuned up are connected down Providence. What they're going to do is come back up with some guys and kill you. Which, sure as you're born, they will do unless I stop them. Do you want me to stop them?
Is it something I can't do personally?
I'm going to have my associate search you.
Search me? Search me for what?
C'm here.
Contra-fucking-band.    Take your fuckin' shoes off.
Shoes off.
I knew your father.
Yeah. He's dead.
I'm sorry.     How did he go?
He didn't complain.
That was his problem.
Who said he had a fuckin' problem.
I just said he had a fuckin' problem. There's a man could have been anything.
Are you saying he was nothing?
I'm saying he worked at the airport.
He's clean.
The arm.
 It makes me curious to see you in this neighborhood. Regressing. And, if I can slander my own formative environment, it makes me sad, this regressing. Plus, I don't know if it's beyond some cop prick like fucking Queenan to pull you out of the Staties, and send you after me. I just can't know. I don't know what they do in...that department, anyway.
Are you still a cop?
No.
You swear on your mother's grave that you're not a cop.
I am not a cop.
You stop doing coke deals with your jerk-off cousin?
Yes!
Take it easy. Get your hand taken care of. I'm sorry. It was necessary. As for our problem with Providence...let's not cry over spilled guineas.
What's this IRA motherfucker doing in my bar?
 Only kidding. How's your mother?
Ah, she's on her way out.
We all are.  Act accordingly.
Do you trust him?
These days, who's reliable?
His Uncle Jackie was.
The Costigans are talented in general.
You don't trust a guy behaves like he's got nothin' to lose.
I'm reliable.
Well, you're one in a million.
Ten million.
What about your wife?
I thought she was.
She wasn't.
She got reliable.
Don't you people ever shut the fuck up?
"Another county heard from."
One too many.
The principles of detection tell me that these men came from Providence.
I'd appreciate it if you got out of my crime scene.
This is my crime scene, but knock yourself out.
 I saw a dead guy. I think I have post traumatic stress. You available for lunch? See you then.
Who's the lead detective?...Good, he's a moron.
I want you to get the cops to look at Jimmy Pappas for the hit. Of course he had nothing to do with it and will say so. You look in 
COSTELLO his car...and find...the gun that did it.
In the trunk or the glove box?... All right.
Wanna see some dead guys?
Have a seat, Billy.
Thank you.
 You know John Lennon?
Yeah, he was president before Lincoln.
 Lennon said `I'm an artist. You give me a fuckin' tuba and I'll get you something out of it'.
I'd like to squeeze some fuckin' money out of it.
Smart mouth. Too bad.
The point with John Lennon is a man can look at anything and make something out of it. For instance, I look at you and I think what can I use you for?
 Get rid of this.  Maybe we can work something out. Let me get dressed.
That was quick. He dead already?
This will get Captain Ellerby on the six o'clock news.
No wonder you get ahead.
I won't do it if I have to wear a wire. No wires. Ever, ever, you understand me? You don't know what this is like.  Micro what?
Microprocessors. We'll probably be at war with the Chinese in twenty- odd years and Costello is selling them military technology. Microprocessors, chips, computer parts. Anybody says anything about anything like that, you let us know.
Did you have a tip from an informant?
No, it was tireless police activity that ah effected ah the arrest of the ah alleged perpetrator.
I've been put in charge of this unit. It is a small surveillance sub-unit but it is mine. And I didn't take this job in order to fuck it up, or to let anyone else fuck it up, whosoever they may be. I hand picked this group. You are my A-team so I want you to conduct yourselves accordingly.
Hi, Captain. And our primary target is obviously Frank Costello. But we don't communicate with anyone else in this shop. Queenan is compartmentalizing everything in SIU. It's the right thing to do, personally I don't trust these fucking troopers either. We think we might have a problem. We think Costello's got a rat in the State Police.
Really?
Yeah.   Really.
Do we have direct access to Queenan's undercovers?
 No. Ah...not presently. Not presently. But I'm hoping to get things...reorganized. That's it. Congratulations. Don't disappoint me.
 I know why I'm here. I made him feel guilty. Why are you here?
Intelligence and aptitude.
That's new.
Hello Dad. I have a new job. 
Where's your fucking license? I don't see no fucking license.
What license.
There's no such thing as a license, of course, but you definitely have to have one. (grabs the bookie by the ear) If you are not being run by us you will be run by someone else, which means you will have let undesirable elements into Mr. Costello's area.
 I was going for my fucking cigarettes...
Hey, that's Jimmy Bags. What the fuck you doin'?
What the fuck. I didn't know....
There's no profit if I pay him two grand a week. I'm in the hole if I pay him two grand a week.
Then make more money or go out of business. This is America. If you don't make money you're a fucking douchebag. What are you going to do?
Make more money.
That's the spirit.
Very interesting.
Yeah, well. Fuck.
Don't worry about it. Guy didn't need need his teeth anyway. Maybe if he was an Eskimo. But in this country we eat a variety of items.
He knocked Jimmy Bags teeth out.
So?
He was...
Reaching for his cigarettes.
Okay! You gonna give me shit, it wasn't no reason----he put his hand in his coat! I don't know if he's a bookie or what the fuck he's doing...
 Well, you know what the fuck a bookie does?
 Pays you.
Bingo. Anyway, I like a guy who goes around knocking guys teeth out for no reason.
Here. From now on call the bar and ask for Mikey. Just Mikey. You ask for Mikey because there's no Mikey. Wait. We'll call.
Forty-eight hours from the time this phone first rings, you take the fucking chip out - like so - and you fucking destroy it. After three days a phone ain't clean. If you use a phone which is not clean, you will have a accident. You never call us. We call you. You got that?
I got it.
I can't fuckin' hear you.
I got it.
Don't look. There's a white van across the parking lot?
 They don't have directional microphones.
What, do you got x-ray vision?
 They don't have directional microphones.
People looking at you make you self- conscious?
I don't know.
Why? They're minuses. They can't tell the difference between a rock star and a career criminal.
Anyone not a criminal is a minus?
What are you soft? That's not what I said. Eat something, Jesus Christ, we got a nice day by the water. Sun's shining, gulls are up...Nice smell of ozone...
You know if your father were alive and saw you, sitting here with me, let's say he would have a word with me about this, in fact, he'd kill seven guys just to cut my throat. And he could do it, which is something you may not know about William Costigan, Sr.
He never, ah, I mean never?
He kept his own counsel. He never wanted money. You can't do a thing with a man like that. Your uncle Jackie needed a lot of money. But even though he got his money from me, he also would kill my entire fucking family if he saw me here with you. And I think about this.
So what are talking about here?
Fact is you're not a guy fresh from the zoo who wants to run a spring water distributor and I don't see you up the dog track as a general manager.
Look at it this way. It's like a tuba. I want to see if I can get something out of it.
You ever think of going back to school?
With all due respect, Mr. Costello, school's out.
Well that's your problem. Maybe someday you'll wake the fuck up.
Good day, Fathers.
 Good morning [day], Francis, good morning.
You recall our chat? (the OLDER PRIEST nods, terrified) "I am as God made me", was that what you said? May I remind you, God don't run the bingo in this archdiocese.
May I remind you, Mr. Costello, that pride comes before the fall.
What comes before the Fall is the Summertime.
How is Sister Mary Theresa doing? We had a tasty relationship before she took her vows. Enjoy your clams, cocksuckers.
I'm not making enough progress with Costello?
"Progress" is hard to define. I make progress every day. In fact, I'm making progress now. There are guys in this department make excellent progress for twenty years without ever getting anything you could definitively call a result. It's like any American industry. Nobody minds if you don't succeed as long as you don't fuck up.
Objectives get lost sight of: fair enough. Who did the two guys from Providence?
Jimmy Pappas.
And what happened to Jimmy Pappas?
He had a heart attack in jail and got knifed in his bed at Boston City Hospital. I believe it's been in the papers.
Are you happy with this result?
It's a result.
Yeah, but cui bono? Who benefits.
Cui gives a shit. It's got a bow on it.
 I think you are a cop, my son.
No, please...
Brian, stop it, I ain't gonna hurt you.
Wake the fuck up.
Hey.   Let's go through the routine.
You think you can pop someone. There's no special card to play. The guy whose jaw you broke was Boston Police Department.
I'm going fuckin' nuts. I can't be someone else every day.
Most of the people in the world do it every day. What's the big deal?
I'm not them.
You're nobody. You signed the paper. We're the only people in the world who know that you're a cop. Maybe we'll just erase your file.
And zip, you're a soldier for Costello, open to arrest for how many felonies? Maybe we'll do that.
Maybe I'll fucking kill you.
Easy now.    That was a joke, Billy.
Just because you play a fucking tough guy doesn't mean you are one, you lace curtain fucking pussy.
 Be smart. If someone was watching how are we supposed to not arrest you?
Get in the car.
Keep your act together. It's just a little while longer.
When are you going to take Costello? What's wrong with taking 'em on any one of the million felonies you've seen him do. Get him for pissing in the street. 
BILLY What, are you waiting for him to chop me up and feed me to the poor?
Well. That would stick...
You shut up. We're building a case. It takes time. You know that.
There's something wrong.
Maybe. Maybe.
Keep your ears opened.   No bullshit.
I want you to listen for any chatter about a spy in the Special Investigation Unit.  You hear anything like that?
Are you serious?
I'm afraid so.
Jesus H. Christ.
Hang tight for me. Just a little longer. We're this close.
Okay.
Thank you, Billy
 What have you got?
Uniform clipped him on the Pike for a suspended licence. However, as he's the subject of an open investigation----
At least one. He's one of Costello's crew.
----we're entitled to get a warrant. We can't get an address off him. He paged his lawyer but the lawyer hasn't called back yet.
Who's the lawyer?
He didn't know the name. He just had the number on a card. Beeper number.
Did he beep him?
Twice.
All right.
Give me your phone.  Turn the camera off. Turn it off.
What?
Give my your phone and turn the fucking camera off. Who's is this? I'm gonna take this.
He can't do that, can he?
He just did.
Mr. Fitzgibbon, afternoon.
You my attorney?
What do you think? Did you make any statements or phone calls I need to be aware of?
I beeped you. The card they gave me...that's it.
That's it? Don't you have to call your mother and tell her you're not gonna be home for supper?
The cameras are off. (gently puts phone on the table) Call your mother.
Lookit. They're in there suiting up for a raid. I don't know where they are going, but they do. And so do you. Call your mum.
Mum, I'm not gonna make it for supper. I got held up. Yeah, talk to you later.
Everybody out. Move.
Who are you? When do I get out of here?
I think you need another attorney, after all, Mr. Fitzgibbon. Have a nice day.
Run the last number called. That'll be his house. Whatever the location is I'll swear I surveilled him at it. Abracafuckindabra.
Why'd you use my phone?
Because you didn't go in there.
The light's nice here in the morning.
It's all right. Guys tend to make a big deal out of it. It's actually quite common.
I gotta go to work.
It's like confession. Isn't it. This sort of thing.
People make things up in confession. You know that?
I know they do.
People are liars. They want to be stars of their little films.
That's an interesting observation.
Do you lie?
Why do you?
I'm asking if you lie.
Honesty isn't synonymous with truth.
You lie. So, is it to do some good, to get somewhere personally, or just for the fuck of it?
I expect sometimes...people...do it to keep things...on an even keel.
So, you had a parent who was a drunk?
 Did you?
 No.
Let's keep this with you.
 There was a cop leaving when I came in.
How do you know he was a cop?
Bad haircut, no dress sense and a slight air of scumbag entitlement. You see cops?
That's part of what I do. Although, I don't normally see cadets who were kicked out of the Academy.
You should get a better job...
Do they all come in and cry...your cops?
Sometimes they cry if they had trouble at home or if they've had to...use their weapons.
Let me tell you something. They signed up to use their fuckin' weapons. Most of them. But they watch enough TV so they know they have to "weep" after they use their weapons. No one's more full of shit than a cop. Except a cop on TV.
I looked through your file and I see you have a record of assault. What was it like for you in jail?
You want to hear about the showers?
Did something happen to you?
No.  You sit there with a mass murderer, your heart-rate jacked, your hand...steady. That's one thing I found out about myself in prison. My hand doesn't shake, ever.
What do you expect from coming here?
I have to come here.
I know it's not elective...on your part...but, now that you're here, what do you want?
You want the truth?  Valium.
If you lied, you'd have an easier time getting what you wanted.
What's that say about what you do for a living?
Look, I think we better have a few more meetings before we can even talk about prescriptions.
I'm having panic attacks. You didn't even ask about that. Last night I thought I was having a fucking heart attack. I puked in a trash barrel on the way in here, I haven't slept for weeks.
Is this true?
Yes. I said something true. I want some fucking pills and you close my file? I thought I was supposed to tell the truth here.
Yes, you are.
If only fuckin' here.
 Guy comes in in pain, against every instinct of ...privacy, of, of, self reliance... that he has, and you don't help him? You send him off to score smack on the fucking street?! (Is that what you do, Mrs. Fuckin' Doctor?)
Two pills.
Why don't you just give me a bottle of scotch and a handgun to blow my fucking head off. Are we done here with this psychiatry bullshit?
You can leave!
What if that was a legitimate threat? .
Fuck...
Why is the hardest patient of the day always the last one?
Because you're bored and tired and don't give a shit. It's not supernatural.
Look, I'm not just...somebody you have to see or they put you in jail. If you are in distress I will help you.
What's this?
My card. And a prescription for twenty Lorazepam.
Is it enough to kill myself?
 Maybe it is. All right? Have I done my job up to your goddamned standards? Because by my standards you fit the model of drug-seeking behavior, and fuck you if you don't like my initial clinical reaction.
 Thank you.
I'm transferring you to another counselor.
You wanna get a cup of coffee?
All right, let's bring it in, please. Come in please.  Our target is a major transaction of microprocessors. Yes, those. I don't know what they are. You don't know what they are. Who gives a fuck? Cash will be handed over in a building which we have under AV surveillance. Staff Sergeant Sullivan's team...  Will ID the bad guys and listen in on the phones.
 Did you guys know anything about this?
 How long have we been tapped on this building?
Our unit will not take action until a man Captain Queenan has inside the operation has verified the transaction. Questions? Anyone? This is who we're after.  
ELLERBY We've been after this cocksucker for a long time, and tonight we're gonna get him. Get to work.
We've been after this son of a bitch for a long time, and we're getting him tonight. Get to work.
 Go find out what we're doing and get on it.
Sorry to get you at the last minute. But things leak. This lead came from Queenan's undercover guy.
 Dad?
 Yes?
I'm not going to make dinner. Something big has come up.
Too bad. Your mother worked all goddamned day. We'll just have to sit down without you and your friends.
Oh, my friends are still coming.
We'll just say lunch tomorrow.   All right, bye.
The readiness is all. You know the players, call the game.
Thank you, Captain.
Piece of cake. I'll operate the cameras. You ID the guys and log them.
All cellphone signals are under surveillance through the courtesy of our Federal friends over there...
 Patriot Act. Love it. Love it.
All right. That's Costello right there. Costello, Mister French, Fitzy, Delahunt, Billy Costigan the new guy...Time is 10.46.
Who are they meeting?
 I don't know. Some Chinamen from points unknown. They're already inside.
Why do you have a blind spot?
It never crossed my mind. You get a camera in the back?
Turn off your cell phones.
Check your weapons...Fitzy has the chicken...
 Maybe if we had some Homeland security money like some other fucking douchebags I could mention...
Any calls?
Search randomly for calls made from the area.
Narrow the area.
What you see for coverage is what you get.
 Why the fuck did they turn off their phones?
Where?
The buyers are there.
You know, direct access to your fucking guys would have certain fuckin' advantages.
 Not to my guy.
This is unbelievable.  Fuck it, who put the cameras in the fucking place?
I'm the guy who does his job. You must be the other guy.
Hey, hey, hey...
 How you going, Robert?
Tops, Mr. Costello. I want to tell you that at least two of these gents have machine guns.
 Waiting, waiting. We almost departed! This man is from the Embassy. He will have to blow his brains out if he is captured. His entire family will be killed.
He's a little upset.
Tell him light on the starch.
 He's fronting the Chinese government and he's just scared shitless.
Government man.  I'm concerned about Chinamen who think it's wise to bring automatic weapons to a business transaction.
Ngup, Ngup, Ngup. Ngaw um ming. Kay ngup mutt. [Yap, yap, yap. I don't understand. What is he saying?]
For his own good, tell Bruce Lee and the Karate Kids none of us are carrying automatic weapons because here, in this country, it don't add inches to your dick. You get a life sentence for it.
 Put away that machine gun.
If these chinks want to nuke Taiwan any time in this century, you tell them they better shape up fast and show me one million dollars.
What we generally do in this country is one guy shows up with the items, and the other guy pays him. No tickee...no laundry.
Nay tiey ching chaw yut bok mon. [Make sure it's real. It's a million dollars.]. ALTERNATE/ALSO : Ne dei yeeche ling ngnaw dong maw gok nay chun. [Next time you make me wait, I'm going to cut your dick off.
In English, thank you, also.
Du ne. [Fuck you.]
The expedition continues this way.
Don't tell me those cars were empty. Please don't tell me those Chinamen's cars were empty.  Do you have a camera in the back.
Can I talk to you a minute?
See, no surveillance here. They didn't figure we had a navy. Always figure an exit for your business partners. What with everything all dug up, you can't trust a slant to find the Mass Pike and, with or without Staties out front, frankly I don't approve of orientals driving to begin with.
What about us, Frank?   What're we gonna do?
We depart. We didn't commit no illegalities.
Except sell the ching chongs a bunch of fuckin' plastic.
Good Morning.
Good morning.
I beat the movers.
How was the last night in the, ah, old establishment?
 Lonely.
I'm glad to hear that.   It sucked here, too.
I'm gonna thank your Uncle Alphonsus for the square footage.
Uncle Alphonsus is in heaven.   So am I.
French donut?
 Yeah. Hey, can I...
Sure yeah.
Well, we're not having this out.
What?
You don't see any pictures of where I came from. Look, I respect who you are, but not in the living room. We might have company.
Company?
Why work for the state?
Why not?   You do.
Not forever, and you don't have to. You've got degrees...you're a hot shit... I mean, what you do, why make as much as a guidance counselor?
 I believe in public service.
Now you're just being ridiculous.
 You like me living here?
 Yes I do.
Answer it.     You live here.
Mayor Sullivan's Office.
 I'm sorry!
Who is it?
I think it's a guy with a, ah, (She touches her throat, and whispers) A cancer guy.
Hello?
 Something for work.
What the fuck is it with your phone?
Nothin', nothin'. It doesn't have any power, that's all. It just happened once.
Was that that shrink cunt answered the phone?
Yes. Yes. As I said, she was gonna move in, so she moved in.
You better get organized, quick.
Last time I checked, I tipped you off and you're not in jail.
Are you listening to me?
Yes.
Are listening to me, son? Do you like Little Miss Thing sucking your cock?
Yes. Yes I do.
So earn it.  I'm gettin' the feeling we got a cop in my crew.
I been gettin' that same feeling.
He's one of yours. Inside. Have you seen anything?
Look, I have no access to undercover files in Queenan's department. It's locked up. Queenan and Dignam run the snitches. They don't give anybody a peep. I'm doing the best...
 Your best? What do you think we're in, the fuckin' haberdashery business?
Please Frank, if you don't relax I can't relax. Let's start with this...get me all the information on the people around you last night. Everyone that works for you. Get me real first names. Get me...
 Get you? Give you? Who the fuck do you work for?
Okay, Frank...I'm sorry...could you please get me social security numbers, ah, I need drivers license numbers, full names, dates of birth, anything like that. Bank account numbers, everything that you don't get from a criminal record or, or a wrap sheet or a...
 Collie, calm down or you'll shoot in your pants. I'll get you the records and whatnot. You'll have 'em but listen to me son, don't disappoint me on this, or some other guy will be putting their cock up Little Miss Freud's ass.
How are you, Francis?
My mother called me Francis.
I know she did. And your father called you the tumor.
Oh, what did your father call you, Charlie? Oh yeah, I forgot, he wasn't around.
Where are the real microprocessors, Frank?
Microprocessors...oh yeah, I heard that story. You arrested some Chinese government guy at the border carrying some light sockets or somethin'.
I can't wait to wipe that fuckin' smirk off your face.
 Wouldn't you rather wipe my ass for me?
I will get you, Frank.
If you could've you would've but I guess you like to go at your own pace.
Excuse me, I've got a date with some angels.
Sooner than you think, Francis.
What?
You have a boss that has a laryngectomy?
No, no, no. That was a guy who works for me.
You're lying to me.
Not exactly.  There are certain things I will not be able to talk to you about. I cannot allow you to jeopardize an ongoing investigation. (Or your own life.) (more seriously, after a long beat) There really are things connected to my job that you can't ask about. That you don't want to know about.
 Okay, then say that.
I will.    Thank you.
That's the movers.
You still wanna stay?
I do.
 All right. All right.       I'm coming.
I'm gonna get on a plane unless you put Queenan on the phone.
Queenan had a funeral to go to. This is my shift. Calm down.
Why shouldn't I get on a fucking plane? Meet up? Do you actually want me dead? There's a rat in your unit. That's a fact. You just don't know it. Where's Queenan?
He's not here.
They knew you had cameras in the building. You have a leak from the inside. It's real. Smoke him out.
And how do we do that Mr... fucking genius who didn't even graduate the academy?
Disinform. Let it slip to SIU that you're getting a sealed wiretap warrant for Costello's apartment. Don't tell anyone in our department but tell SIU. Flush it and see if it comes out of the pipe on my end. That's first. Narrow it down. Where's Queenan.
Are you deaf? He's not here. Call me when you get something real.
It's me.
I'm assuming you want to change things, you know, change the people you know, change the people you meet, change everything, anything. Too many choices can see like no choice at all...
Confucius say that?
So you do...something radical.
"Something radical," huh?
...yeah, you do... Sometimes it's just a matter of picking a thing and doing it...
So how long you been with this guy?
Oh, four months. About four months.
You love this guy?
It's pretty serious, yeah, it is.
A head case or anything?    I'm just curious...
No more than I am.
Then you're lucky.   Considering the odds, right?
Good, give him a shot.
Doctors aren't supposed to have illusions.
Yeah, that's because of vastly superior intelligence. Godlike, really.
OK, I'm in a serious, newly serious, relationship...there are...ups and downs...everybody has doubts, problems -- I mean doubts.
What would you do if he was standing right there and saw us?
I'd lie. To keep things on an even keel. You know all about it.
You take off an armored car at the Dedham Mall and what do you do. Do you pay guineas in Providence?
Fucking now I do.
What the fuck do you do.
What, I pay Costello and wait for him to trade me to the FBI? Cause that's what he does.
FBI? What the fuck are you talking about.
Oh my God, is that French out there?
 What the fuck did you just say about the FBI?
Forget what I said. I'm fucking high, I'm high.
Whatever's going through your very poor, very limited, brain...I'm not going to hurt you. Just tell me what you just fucking said.
Forget it, I'm high, I must be high, I would never say what you thought I said.
Tell me what the fuck you said.
 Why do you think he's not arrested? Costello's a protected FBI informant. He'll trade you out.  I thought I was supposed to go into shock. I'm not in shock. It fucking hurts. It fucking hurts.
Let's go.
Hey, it's me.
What do you want? What are you doing here?
Come here.
Costello is giving people up to the FBI.
The FBI?
He gives information to the FBI. He's a protected informant. Aren't they trying to make it a Federal case? And it never gets made?
 Go around the back. Go around the back.
My wife's asleep. She left supper out. Come and have something to eat.
No, I...
We'll talk in the kitchen. Come and have something to eat.
Congratulations. Haven't seen a guy like you since me. You'll be transferred to Internal Investigations but you will continue to work right where you are in the Special Investigation Unit.
I don't get it.
We are all convinced that Costello has at least one mole in the Special Investigation Unit.
Right.
You'll investigate. Everybody. Anybody.
Well, that's just a dream job for a cop.
We have considered all possible candidates. You have an immaculate record. Some people never trust a guy with an immaculate record. I do.  I have an immaculate record.
Play golf?
No.
That's a pity. Pretty much sucks as a game but you get to form relationships.  How's the wedding coming along?
Everything's great. On schedule. She's a doctor.
Outstanding. That's good. Marriage is an important part of getting ahead. You don't want anyone thinking you're a homo. Married guy seems stable. People look at a wedding ring and think: someone can stand the son of a bitch. Ladies see the wedding ring and know immediately that you must have some cash and that your cock works.
Oh, it's working. Overtime.
I'm glad to hear that.
Boss wants your real name, your social, your license number, all your bank account numbers.
I don't have a bank account.
I'm a cash business myself.
What's he doing, setting up IRAs?
You fill in the papers, real name, all your numbers, no fucking around, and then we all wait here.
No, I ain't.
Put the forms in there.
I don't know if this is how you spell Citizens'.
No, no, no. Jesus Christ.
What are you, retarded? That ain't right.
Billy, he said to stay here.
I'm not sitting in this room without a tetanus shot. I'm not staying.
Where you going?
Follow the envelope.
Why can't Ellerby's guys? SIU.
They can't. They are compromised.
Oh yeah, be dirty.
See   anything you like?
Jesus Christ, Frank, I almost shot you.
You're not indulging in self abuse are you?
Frank, we got problems.
I hope you're not turning into one of those sob sisters, who wants to get caught. You're not crackin' up are you?
I don't crack up.
Pick a place where any cop could see you...
Why did you show up then?
I own the place.
Why am I not fuckin' surprised. Look...
You're gettin' reassigned.
How the fuck did you know that?
Where'd they put you?
I have to find myself.
You're telling me, sonny boy.
I have to find the guy you have in the department.
With everybody looking up their own ass and you looking for yourself, I put my money on nobody finding nothing.
Frank, for me, you've got to lay low.
Laying low is not what I do.
Yeah, big fuckin' daddy Frank. Lookit, Frank, what good am I to you if you don't listen to me? Queenan's compartmentalizing. He's fuckin' smart, you know that. I will find this rat if you let me do it my way. If you let me do my job.
Okay.  But Colin, I hope I won't have to remind you, that if you don't find that cheese eating rat bastard in your department so we can give him a halo, most likely it won't be me who pays for it.
Why would you need to remind me of that? I didn't know that would I be any good at what I do? Trust me, I know how to do this. 
COLIN It involves lying, and I'm pretty fucking good at that, right?
 Maybe it's because it's always been so easy for me to get cunt that I never understood jerking off in a theatre.
Who knows what's easy? Collie, take care of business.
Your name's on the pill label. I thought you weren't supposed to be in the book, in case of obsessive patients.
How obsessive are you?
Medium.
Are you okay? Why are you here?
I really liked our conversations. I've been...regretting that we didn't continue...our conversations.
I'm glad you want to see me...it's nice to see you...I enjoyed talking...I enjoyed having coffee with you, very much...but I don't see people...I don't see people in my home.
Thanks. If this is inappropriate... I can leave.
No, it's, it's, it's not inappropriate...you're not a patient...
You moving in or out?
I still have three weeks on the lease...
That's me.
Yeah, I know.
 Would you like a cup of tea?
Yeah. Yeah I would. Thank you.
Do you want some...
Sugar?   No...
I've always needed my own place.
Hedging your bets?
No. I'm not "hedging my best"...I told you when we had coffee...There's a choice. You choose...you have to make a...
Decision.
...decision...and stick by what...you choose...you have to...
Move in with your boyfriend?
Yes. Stick by what you...otherwise it's... I have to say that your vulnerability is really freaking me out right now. Is it real?
Yeah, I think so.
You don't have cats.
No.
I like that. That's good.
You got a girlfriend?
No.   No.   What does that matter?
Depends. I'm sure you know by now there's an informer in my crew. Cop. Staties or Boston Police department, I'm not sure.
What about the FBI.
It ain't. Trust me. The ex-wife, an old friend or stupid...that's what brings you down in this business.
Stupid...Well, that leaves me out.
Past days, case like this...I killed everybody who works for me.
Better safe than sorry, I suppose.
On the other hand, back then, it was only five...or six...and French.
I look around at your guys. They're all murderers right? I think "could I do murder?" And all I can answer myself is, "what's the difference".
Give em up to the Almighty.   Like that.
Yeah, that's my point. You accuse me once, I put up with it. You accuse me twice, I quit. If you make me fear for my life, I put a fucking bullet in your head as if you were anybody else.
 You got something you want to say to me, William?
You're seventy fucking years old. One of these guys is going to pop you. As for running drugs, what the fuck. You don't need the pain in the ass, and they're going to catch you. And you don't need the money.
I haven't needed "the money" since I took Archie's milk money in the third grade. Tell the truth, I don't need pussy any more,but I still like it. 
COSTELLO Point I'm making...you see...I got this rat...gnawing, cheese eating fucking rat...questions come up...questions...see, Bill, you're the new guy...and the girlfriend. Why don't you stay in the bar when I get the numbers. Your numbers. Everybody's numbers.
Is there something you want to ask me, Frank?
Start with, you agree there is a rat?
You said there is one. I base most of what I do on the idea that you're pretty fucking good at what you do.
Sure, sure, all that aside...but you Bill, what would you do?
How many of these guys been with you long enough to be disgruntled? Who needs more money than you pay them? You don't pay much, you know. It's almost a feudal fuckin' enterprise. (COSTELLO nods, accepting this) The question is, who thinks that they would do what you do better than you?
Only one that can do what I do is me. You want to be me?
I probably could be you. I know that much. But I don't want to be you.
Heavy lies the crown...sort of thing.
Francis.
We're out of here, Mister Costello. You'll have to set the alarm.
 Thank you, Jimmy. See you tomorrow.
There's a boat coming in, up in Gloucester. French will give you all the details.
You heard nothing?
No.
Nothing about drugs. Nothing about new guys, nothing about Gloucester?
No, Frank, not a thing. And I promise you I would have heard about it.
You're sure. No other departments, no codes, like that...
Frank.   You can relax on this one.
Okay, Collie. I will.
 It ain't Bill. No way, he says. Thank God for Billy.
Morning.
A problem?
Yeah, I run rat fucks like you.   I don't like them.
The day you wouldn't take a promotion, you let me know. And I wouldn't even have a job if you did yours.
Fuck yourself.
I need to know the identity of your undercovers.
Blow me. Not literally, there's no promotion in it for ya.
Morning, Captain.
Look who's here. The Queen of the prom.
They are not happy with me. Especially Staff Sergeant Dignam.
What do you expect? Everybody knows you're assigned here to find Costello's rat. They want to find the leak as much as you do. What they do not want is to be accused of being the rat.
Fair enough. Well one of them has to be dirty, We know that, right?
Two days ago, my undercover guy in Costello's organization----
Who is that?
Lots of luck.  You can go over my head, high as you like. You still won't get an answer.
Fair enough.
As I said, two days ago, my guy nearly found out who Costello's rat is. He lost him in the street.
Really?   Did he get a look at him?
...No.
Nothing that could help us?
Nah.
 Any advice?   Generally?
Costello can't do  business without coordinating with his source...  Who is here. In SIU. Follow Costello and you'll find his rat.
 You're going to be looking at my people. Going through their bank statements, phone bills, medical records. Don't expect them to get you a coffee or invite you to their houses. Let me get you a coffee.
Follow Costello and you'll find his informer.
This is Sullivan. I need constant surveillance on Captain Queenan, starting right now.
If I wasn't with the Mass State Police. If I did it full time,law school, I'd be through in a year. I'm thinking that. If I wasn't a trooper.
What's going on?
Nothing. Nothing. There's nothing going on. Just thinking.
Okay, all right. (thinking about it; blows a breath) And what about money?
I got some money. Another city...I'm thinking that.
Another city? It'd be a clean slate.
I want you to know you don't gotta stay. If we're not going to make it, it's got to be you that gets out. I'm not capable  I'm fuckin' Irish, so I'll deal with something being wrong for the rest of my life.
Not a bad idea, another city.
Of course I know how to spot a cop.
Oh yeah, how's that?
If he's not paying attention to us, he's a cop.
See that guy over there, he's a cop. He's not paying attention to us. He's a cop.
Lot of fucking cops.
What kind of dog is that?
She's a cop.
She's probably the fucking Police Commissioner.
You can get out of here.   This is the crew for tonight.
I thought I was on for that.
I changed my mind. Take the night off.  Jimmy, get the mop.
Go out the back. Some guys answer the questions right. Some don't.
You're a cop.
Huh?
You're ignoring us. You're a cop. We're guessing who cops are. Most good looking women are cops.
Right. I'm going home. He's playing with his new boys.
See you later.
Later.
He's moving something with all new guys.  I don't want to tell you what or where. It might be disinformation. It probably is. Just keep following him. I need to see you today. (a beat...reacting to Queenan, Billy continues) No. Today.
Can I ask a question, Sergeant?
Yes, go ahead.
Why the fuck are we following Captain Queenan? To find out about the good Catholic life?
 I have to follow every lead, however unlikely, however fucking painful it might be to your delicate fucking sensibilities.
Who says I have delicate sensibilities?
I have reason to believe that Queenan is Costello's informer. Follow him, and don't get made.
Copy that, Sarge
We got him.
Sarge, we got the target.
Where are you now?
Look down the car.
Got me?
Any reason you'd have a tail?
No...Of course not.
 I'm watching a guy...
I don't have a tail, Billy.
Okay. Get off at South Station. You wait there for ten minutes. After I leave I'll text message you the address where we'll meet. I'll make sure you don't have a tail.
South Station. Wait ten minutes.
He went into a building on the waterfront. Address is 344 Wash...
He went to the top floor. It's empty. No tenants.
I don't know what we're doing here.
 I think I've got him. I think Queenan is meeting with him right now.
Get the van. Get the boys.
I assume these premises do not have an anti-smoking ordinance. So, what's going on?
I told you, he's got dope coming in, I don't know where. He's getting spooky, Captain...
What do you mean?
He's crazy. I just saw the man. He had blood all over him. I can't get any more information for you. I can't trust it. He's not including his regular guys... I'm telling you, he's gonna find out who I am. He's gonna fuckin' kill me, I know it.
All right, all right. I hear you. I'm sorry for you trouble. Look, I'm not gonna jeopardize your safety any longer. I'll get you out. I can't do it overnight but I'll do it. We can bust him for what we have. At least I think we can...I hope. You're out of there ASAP.
Yeah?   What about the FBI?
They're compromised.
What?
They're fucked, just like this lighter.
Billy, where the fuck are you? We been trying to reach you. We found the rat. Top man says we're gonna take care of him. The address is 314 Washington Street. You got it? All right. See you there.
What?
You were fucking followed.
By who?
Costello's people.
Impossible.
No. One of the cops he's got inside tipped him.
What the fuck is going on?
Holy fucking shit. Looks like Queenan's meeting with all of them.
Yes.
They'll be on the elevators, too.
Take the back fire escape.
What'll you do?
I'll be fine. If you get made I can't protect you. Go down the fire escape. Now. That's an order. I'll be fine.
Can I help you gentlemen?
I guess we've had enough of this shit. Where's your boy?
Fuck!   Something came off the roof.
What came off the roof? What do you mean something came off the roof? Go again with that information.
You're fuckin' late. Where the fuck were you? Get in the fuckin' van.
What the fuck happened?    I came to meet you.
Stay in the fucking car. Stay in the fucking car. This is a surveillance unit.  Do I pursue.
No. Stay where you are. I need some fucking information here. What came off the building?
I'm not sure.
No pursuit. No pursuit.
Fuck that.
Thirty-two X to CP. Thirty-two X to CP. We're being fired upon. I repeat.
We have an officer down. An officer has been shot. Request immediate assistance.
And where the fuck were you?
Boss told me to go home.
Maybe he did and maybe he didn't. At any rate you weren't fuckin' home.
I was in a fucking grocery store with no signal. When I got a signal I got the call. What the fuck do you want. Was I there or was I not there? Huh?
Billy. Billy 
 Jesus Christ.
Two days...two days ago the Boss says to me, it's been ten years already, and you've never done me wrong. He asked me, if one of the other guys is a rat, would I take him out. I told him I would but I don't know if I would. Now I know I can't. I've done a lot of bad things but I've never been a murderer.
Hey Billy, I don't want no one to put me in a dumpster. Just don't put me in a dumpster.
When you're dead it makes no difference where they put you.
You know what I thought today?
What's that?
Who didn't show up today is the rat.
Yeah, so?
You never been late in your life. And when I called you... I made a mistake. I gave you the wrong address. But you showed up at the right one.
Tell me why I didn't say anything. Tell me why.
 That cop was tough. We were excessive with the cop.
He's dead. I'm going home.
Do you know why Queenan went to that building?
No.
A better question is why your fuckers were following him.
I told Internal Investigations to follow him.
Why?
That's internal Investigations business.
I have to investigate everybody and anybody. I don't have to justify anything. Nor does anyone have to like it. I now have information... 
COLIN from a very good source...that Queenan may have been killed by his own undercover.
That's a fucking lie.
Captain Queenan and Staff Sergeant Dignam here have information on this undercover, and other informants, in a locked file. I need those files unlocked.
I don't have the password.   Why don't you come down to the garage...
That's a lie.
No one calls me a liar. Especially when I'm lying.
Everybody shut up.  Work with the tech guys to unlock the files. Dignam. You take a leave of absence.
Leave of what?
Queenan's dead. That makes me your boss.
I'll hand in my papers first.
What?
Hey, world needs plenty of bartenders. Two weeks with pay.
Good.
I need those codes.
No, you want those codes.
I tried to call you a few times.
I know.     .   I can't...
I can't be a friend to you. I can't. I'm sorry.
It's okay, okay, I know.
Now, when I hear Lucia, I can't stop thinking about the cocaine curtsy you did on that nigger broad's face. (the phone rings. Costello answers:) What?
 Your shouldn't have killed Queenan.
One of us was going to have to die. With me it tends to be the other guy.
 You're crazy, Frank. You killed the guy who has all the information. And Dignam's not in the office, he's gone. He resigned.
I don't give a fuck about Dignam.
He's fucking gone. They took his papers in. He's not talking. I don't know where he is.
Don't get your balls in an uproar, Collie. That Irish piss-ant won't be a problem. He's so hot for me, we give him a whiff of my ass, he'll crawl right in it. Let's give him a whiff.
I will.
Don't worry. I'll take care of it.
Sweetheart, you're giving me a hard- on.
Are you sure it's me or all that talk about whiffin' and crawlin' up asses?
Hey, watch your fucking mouth.
You watch it.
Let me straighten you out.
Yeah.
You called this number on a dead guy's phone. Who are you?
So it is you. Thank God you're all right. We were very worried.
Who are you?
You're talking to Sergeant Sullivan. I'm taking over Queenan's unit.
Let me talk to Dignam to confirm it.
Staff Sgt. Dignam has... taken a leave of absence. He's very upset. We're all very upset. The best thing would be for your to come in. We need you to come in.
State Police have confirmed that the body of the man found dead in the Fenway marshes yesterday afternoon is that of Timothy Delahunt, an undercover policeman for the City of Boston.. This was the scene today.... If you have any information about this murder, you are urged to call the Boston Police.
Fuck.   I can't believe it.
Don't believe what?
I'm embarrassed. How the fuck did they find him so fast? I spent all fuckin' night out there, dragged the poor bastard.... I must have been there seven hours. In three feet of mud. What the fuck is a marsh? And who walks their dog in a fuckin' marsh? In three feet of water? I don't believe it. I still don't believe he's a fuckin' cop.
The cops are saying he's a cop so I won't look for the cop.  Are you soft? The next time I tell you to dump a body in the marshes, put it in the fuckin' marshes, not where some guy from John Hancock goes every Thursday to get a blowjob!
Proceed.
Jesus Christ.
What?
Don't go. You've got a tail. Two cars. Not very subtle. They won't be subtle from now on. That's what I've been trying to tell you.
Get rid of them.
There's no need to go yourself, Frank.
Get rid of the fuckin' tail!
I will.   All right.
Tails. Fuckin' rats. This rat shit is wearing me thin.
Francis, they're all rats. Women are rats... cunts...Yeah, we're becoming a nation of rats.
Stop. Stop. Pull these guys off. Tell your team to stop following Costello. We don't need to surveil him.
What the fuck are you talking about?
I have it from an undercover: Costello knows he's being followed. Let our UC take him in.
What informant?
Queenan's guy. He called me when he found out Queenan was dead. I'm running him.
No.   You give him to me.
No. But I can give you Costello's destination.
You know where he's going?
Yes. And what he's about to do. Call off the tail, and get Special Ops. Get them on standby. We meet him where he's going. Suit up. We're gonna take this prick tonight.
 All units fall back.
It's the heavy equipment warehouse Costello owns on Sheffield. He must have a container or a truck in there. (his big moment of decision) Go.
 There's an exit on the other side. Cover it. We'll take him when he comes out.
Load it.
How do you know you don't have a tail?
Were you in the fuckin' car?
What if they took one off and put another one on, Frank?
Load.
Frank told me to check out the back. You guys go ahead.
Watch your ass.
Cocksucker.
You're an FBI informant.
Jesus Colin, grow up. Course I'm talking to the FBI.
Do they know who I am?
I never gave up anybody who wasn't goin' down anyway.
Did you give me up?
Nobody knows nothin'.
Frank, Frank, do they know about me?
I know you, Colin. You know I'd never give you up. You're like...
A son...to you? Is that what it is about, all that murderin' and fuckin' and no sons? What are you, shooting blanks?
I got Costello! I got Costello here!
 It's not any reason for, ah...
Thank you.
No, thank you.
He's waited a long time for you. (COLIN looks up and sees BILLY) How'd you get him without the files?
Caller ID. On Queenan's phone. You know that guy?
Yeah, we were classmates together.
I'm gonna go talk to him.
Good to see you Trooper.
Yeah.   "Trooper".
Colin Sullivan. We spoke on the phone. How long have you been undercover?
Long time.     Long fuckin' time.
I can't begin to tell you what a debt we owe you. I want you to know I'll be recommending you for the Medal of Merit.
Medal of Merit. Oh, yeah. That's kinda like a gold star around here, right?
It's the highest honor we got.
I just want my identity back.
You want to be a cop again?
No, being a cop's not an identity. I want my identity back.
You'll have to excuse me. My only contact has been with a police shrink.
 A police shrink. (instead of asking the obvious) Was that... helpful for you?
What are you gonna do about the rat in this building?
I'm gonna find him. Don't you worry about that. You got anything? Did Frank, ah, say anything...
I'm all done being a cop. I just want to get my money and go home.
Fair enough. You've given a lot. I can get you your file. I just need your password.
The password's my name, William Costigan, Jr. They gave it to me in case something happened to them and I had to explain myself to someone like you.
All right, Bill. Just give me a minute. I'm gonna go in the other room. This computer's gone blooey on me.
I know. I'm not here to...I'm not here for that. I've got something to...to give to you...something I need you to keep. For me.
What is it?
 I need you to be my friend here and not ask any questions. That's for you to hold.
Only you. Open this if I'm dead or if I call you and tell you to open it. Please do exactly what it says. Exactly what it says, please.
All right.
I'm sorry to show up here like this. There was no one else I could give it to. I'm sorry. There was no one else.
I...we...  I've, it's, been so confused... I just want to say...
Whatever you have to say, really think about it, and if you still want to tell me, tell me in two weeks, all right?
I was dreaming...
What?
I was dreaming I was dead.
Death is hard. Life is much easier.
What's this?
Open it
Really?
Yeah.
Really?
Yeah.
You're joking...
It's not a joke, it's a human being.
What?
Your guys shouldn't have done that.
One of us was going to have to die. It tends to be the other guy.
I'm now in charge of everything here. Including Queenan's informers. Theoretically. I can't unlock the files until after the brass squeezes Dignam. If the brass squeezes Dignam.
So Dignam's the only one with the keys to the kingdom.
He's fucking resigning. He put his papers in. He's not talking.
Give me his location. Tonight.
I thought I was the liar.
I can explain.
Costello recorded everything. He put all the tapes in a little box and kept them with his lawyer. That was his insurance. His lawyer came to me. Costello trusted me the most. Imagine that you rat fuck. Sound quality good enough? I was a little worried.
What do you want?
I want my identity, you two-faced rat prick.
Where are you?
Three o'clock. Where Queenan died. You keep your cell on.
Did we not talk about this?   This is my job.
Get your hands up.   Hands.   Hands.
Put the fuckin' gun down.
I came here to talk some fucking sense to you. You get a hold of yourself and put down the fuckin' firearm and act professional and I can get you your money.
 What did you say?
I can get you your...
 Fuck, shit...
 You didn't come here to talk, you fuckin' maggot, you came here to get arrested.
Arrested? Arrested for what.  So you got tapes of what? Costello was my informant. I was his rat? Fuck you. Prove it. I say he was my informant.
Get up and shut your fuckin' mouth.
What is this, a citizen's arrest? Blow me, prick. Only one of us is a cop, here, Bill. Nobody knows who you are. Nobody knows who you are.
Would you shut the fuck up.
I'm a sergeant in the Mass. State Police. Who the fuck are you? Nobody. I ERASED YOU.
You erased me?
Go ahead. Shoot a cop, Einstein. See what happens.
What would happen is the bullet would go right through your fuckin' head.
Watch what happens.
What, you think you're gonna get the parade? The bagpipes and bullshit? Fuck you.  I'm arresting you.
That's the stupidest thing you could do.
Shut up, shut up, shut the fuck up.  I don't give a fuck if these charges don't stick.  But I'm still fucking arresting you.
[You are what you do.] Get up.  I said get the fuck up.
Put down the weapon and step away from Sergeant Sullivan.
I called you. You specifically. You know who I am. I'm not gonna shoot. I told you to meet me downstairs.
Help me.
Put the weapon on the deck and step away from Sergeant Sullivan.
 Shoot the fuckin' prick.
 Where's Dignam? I told you to bring Dignam!
Shoot the motherfucker!
Put the weapon on the ground and we'll discuss it.
He was Costello's rat. I got evidence. Tapes. Other documents.
Maybe you do, but right now I need you to drop the weapon.
I told you I've got the evidence cold linking this prick to Costello...  You fuckin' know who I am. I'm taking him downstairs now.
I can't wait for you to try to explain this to a Suffolk County grand jury. This is gonna be fun.
Just fucking kill me.
I am killing you.
 Shit...
Did you think you were the only one he had? Costello was going to sell us to the FBI. It's you and me now. We have to take care of each other. You understand?
All right. Give me that.
At that time, Trooper Barrigan, who I now understand to have been Francis Costello's informer in SIU, intercepted us in the lobby and shot Trooper William Costigan once in the head.  At that time Barrigan retrieved Trooper Costigan's undercover weapon and shot Trooper Brown as he was approaching our location. I attempted to subdue Trooper Barrigan and in the ensuing struggle was struck several times with the Walther pistol. I was able to wrestle the weapon away, at which time Barrigan drew his own weapon and took aim at me. I was able to get off a single shot, striking Barrigan in the head. I then checked for vital signs of Troopers Brown and Costigan and discovered that they had expired.
I'd like to go on record that I am recommending Trooper William Costigan for the Medal of Merit.
What about the baby?
 OK.
