I'm here, I'm here, false alarm, let's just let her down nice and easy -
Sure. At the impound lot.
You don't understand, I'm just meeting my wife's-plane - you gotta give me this car back.
Sure. Tomorrow 8 to four, you pay 40 bucks, we give it back.
This is my mother in law's car. She already hates me because I'm not a
I was in LA once. Hated it.
 I can relate to that. Hate it myself-  Hey, that's a plastic fender, Jesus-  See, I used to be a New York cop still got my ID somewhere -I only moved 'cause my wife got promoted - look, maybe we can settle this right here, we're in Washington, heartbeat of Democracy, one hand washes the other He realizes the truck is DRIVING AWAY one way while the cop is i going off the other way - McClane votes for the cop -
Hey, c'mon, it's Christmas -
So Ask Santa to bring you another car.
McClane shoves his way through some people - when they GLARE at him he quickly APPLAUDS the kids, pulls up at an INFORMATION BOOTH - the girl there is watching a LITTLE TV on the shelf out of sight from the public.
McClane's BEEPER goes off again.
thru OMITTED thru
Security was tight today at Escalon airport in the Republic of Val Verde, where government authorities escorted General Ramon Esperanza to the military transport that will bring him to the United States to stand trial for narcotics trafficking. A HAND thrusts in front of the CAMERA - FINGERS clenching and curling oddly.
Only two years ago the controversial General lead his country's Army in its campaign against Communists insurgents - a campaign fought with American money and advisors. Esperanza's fall from power caused
.when high ranking Pentagon officials were chargedwith supplying I him with weapons despite the congressional ban. The exercises finished, Stuart FREEZES in an eerie pose, until
But mounting evidence that Esperanza's forces violated the neutrality of neighboring countries made Congress withhold funds-funds which Esperanza I s accused of replacing by going into the'lucrative business of cocaine smuggling. ,.One topcoat, one suit there, shirt and tie laid out like a costume not usually worn. On the shelf above, one PACKAGE in
aru OMITTED thru
Hello. This is Lieutenant McClane - Somebody there beep me?
I'd like to think I'm somebody.
Holly! Did you land?
John, wake up. It's the nineties. Microchips, microwaves, faxes and airphones.
As far as I'm concerned, progress peaked with the frozen pizza.
We're going to land about thirty minutes late, I wanted you to know. Kids okay?
Just speeding on sugar, thanks to your parents. I really appreciate you coming a day late, honey. Nothing I like better than a weekend with the Munsters.
Mom give you any trouble about borrowing her new car?
You're on, Lieutenant. They both hang up. The OLDER WOMAN beside Holly smiles at her.
Isn't technology wonderful?
My husband doesn't think so.
Well, I do. I used to carry around those awful mace things - She opens her purse and displays a Taser stun gun. OLDER WOMAN
Excuse me - Pause as they dance away from each other. Then -
--do I know you?
I... get that a lot. I've... been on TV.
You and me both, pal. The hell with it. Now it's Stuart's turn to look at McClane oddly; then he moves off. McClane looks after him, trying to place him... shrugs... heads for the bar.
Yes? Although Esperanza was BAKER removed as Commander in Sorry to bother you, sir. Chief earlier this year, We're checking our equipment. the agreement to extradite Any problems with the conduit him was not reached until box in your backyard? yesterday - and Washington insiders say it was a phone CUSTODIAN call that made it happen - Gee, I don't know anything a phone call from an about that. angry American President. Baker and Thompson glance at each other.
Would you mind if we take a look?
Help yourself.
Don't seem right, somehow, closing a church down. Oh, I know the parish is gonna keep using it, but it won't be the same. Been here a lot of years; and I been right here with it. They've arrived at a rear window. FOCUS CHANGE to a green CONDUIT BOX on the the church's rear lawn, half covered in snow. FOCUS back through the glass. Thompson looks questioningly at Baker, who nods.
Yep. I kinda feel a part of me is dying along with this church.
Well, you're right about that. BLAM BLAM GLAM. BULLETS RIP through the end of the Christmas package, SLAM the custodian up and into a row of pews, which
This is team one. We're here.
This is Leonard Adkins, in Val Verde - where the war on drugs has finally taken its first prisoner. With an annoyed expression, Thompson CLICKS OFF the newscast.
Busting our asses Christmas week like they're gonna land extra planes if we finish - Suddenly two MEN O'REILLY and SH DON) are there.
Need something?
Yeah. BAM! BAM! Both painters are SHOT. Quickly, the two men toss their bodies into the rear, get into the van... and BACK IT INTO the airport garage. O'Reilly enters a NUMBER CODE into a transceiver-
into radio, as iffey
Team Two. In position.
Hey, you!
} This is .a restricted area! Mind telling us what you're doing?
We just lost FAA approach control.
Weather may have screwed up the line. Switch over to our own back up and run a check. Barnes hits a switch. The ALARM STOPS. Everyone relaxes.
That was the Colonel: All perimeter teams are in place.
Flurries all along h e Virginia Coast... new storm moving in from the Northeast.
 God loves the Infantry.
Excuse me, officers. This may be a total wild goose chase, but I think I just saw - He STOPS. CAMERA ADJUSTS. The cop he's talking to is the asshole who towed away the car.
Saw what?
Elvis. McClane turns, throws money near his glass and quickly exits the bar.
 Hey. Colonel Stuart.
Old news.
Better than these loxes. Very quietly, Sam and the cameraman do their best to slip away from the pack.
Tapping airport phones right now. Got a slight problem with personnel: Last minute replacement. What's the status of the security here?
(nodding towards the
Like we figured. A joke - But suddenly both men are in the GLARE of a portable light.
Colonel Stuart! Can we have a few words with you?
You can have two: "Fuck" and "you". And the interview is over and he's out the door.
Open this.  Got a cop on duty around here?
Airport police -
Excuse me.
This is a restricted area. You boys too impatient to wait for the skycaps?
We... work for th amine.
Yeah? Let's see some ID - Instantly both men DIVE to the outside, drawing guns.
M J er gets in a powerful punch, gets free - CAMERA FOLLOWS Miller as his hand gropes for the pistol.- and then McClane rIT into view with fucking HAIRSPRAY right in the guy's eyes! Miller HOWLS, blinded - but then - BLAM! A BULLET EXPLODES tcan in McClane's hand!
And in that instant
Cleveland?
- no, you did not explain anything - all you did was shove me a- -here in this cattle car -
- Sir, you were told when you boarded that we were overbooked - Holly looks up idlely - and then REACTS as she sees -
Fine. Done, I accept it. But why the hell can't I get the First Class Meal--my-Network paid for instead of this swill?
I'm sorry, sir, I can't do that now - If you'll just sit down - ?
Do youknow who I am?
Yes. We've all seen your program. Your episode "Flying junkyards" was a very objective look at air safety.
It wasn't nearly.as edifying as "Bimbos of the Sky", was it, Connie?
You think you're funny?  'I've got your number
 And I've got yours - so park it, pal!
Stewardess!
Mister Thornberg - you cannot monopolize my -
You cannot put me near that woman.
Excuse me? CAMERA ADJUSTS to feature Holly - and the Stewardess' growing fascination with her.
He.means he has filed a restraining order against me. I'm not allowed within fifty feet of him -
- And by seating me here you're violating a court order - I could sue you and this airline - this woman has assaulted me and besmirched my
? What'd you do?
I knocked out two of his teeth.
Whoa, wait a second. This is a crime scene. Aren't you going to seal off this area?
Up to the Captain? Take me up to the Captain, too.
You're late.
We ran into trouble; a policeman. He killed Cochrane; I barely got away.
Did you finish your assignment?
Yessir. But -
Then the damage is minor.  But the penalty could be severe. In a blur of motion, Stuart is on his feet, the pistol is at Miller's temple. CLICK.
 Fail me again and it won't be an empty chamber. Dismissed.
 McClane?
Lorenzo?
Captain Lorenzo.
Yeah, I know. You think that LA badge is gonna get you a free lunch or something down here?
No. Just a little professional courtesy.
In an airport Christmas week? You gotta be kidding.
Okay. Forget the courtesy. How about lust the professional? Your boys dust walked away from a crime scene - you need to seal it off, get a forensics team in, dust it, shoot
And what do we do with all the luggage for all the airplanes while we play Charlie Chan?
You store them somewhere -
Oh. And meanwhile every hour a few more thousand people come and they want to put their luggage on airplanes, so we store them and their luggage in some other "somewhere"? Hell, why don't we shut down the whole fucking airport? Whaddya think they'll say upstairs when I tell them that?
Why don't you try it and find out?
Because I don't need a forensics investigation to file away some punk stealing luggage -
Luggage? That "punk" pulled a Glock Seven on me. Know what that is? A porcelain gun from Germany. It doesn't show up on airport x-ray machines... and it costs more than you earn in a month.
You'd be surprised what I earn in a month.
If it's more than a dollar eighty nine, yeah -
Now get the hell out of my office before I have you thrown out of my airport! McClane moves towards the door, his hands waving off the would be bouncers.
 One question, Carmine: Which sets off the metal detectors first: The shit in your brains, or the lead in your ass?
Then a CLATTER announces the PASSAGE of the morgue guys, the BODY on their gurney. McClane moves aside, watches them, thinking... getting an idea.
Excuse me. He reaches over, gently takes typing paper and a stamp pad.
Whoa, guys. (ver quickly showing
Gotta check something. Before they can react, he's UNZIPPED the bag, yanked out the guy's right hand.
What're you doing?
 Didn't you ever have an airport stiff
He presses the fingers against the paper, checks them. (The hand he's released remains straight up.)
Yup, he's dead,. all right. Thanks. And he's gone as they look after him, puzzled.
Ay, Alle va nos escorto.
Es bueno; el peligro es pasado. Estamos segur hasta los Estados Unidos. Cuanto tiempo?
Excuse me, honey - can I borrow your office for a minute? Before she can answer, he's over the counter and reaching for her phone.
(swallowing, answering
Records. Sgt. Powell -
Hey, partner. Get that twinky out of your mouth and grab a pencil.
Vacation? Holly stood me up for a last minute meeting. I'm alone in DC with the in-laws.
Ah, the in-laws. They love their policemen son-in-laws, don't they?
R' ht. Listen, Al, what's our FAX n u mber in the station there?
550-3212. This is a first.
Yeah, well my wife's company makes 'em, I figure it's time to get one of them pregnant.  This way?
 Fingerprints?
From a stiff down here at Dulles. I marked the whorls with a pen in case the transmission's fuzzy. Can you run that through State and Federal for me - throw in Interpol if you got it.
I don't know. Just a feeling.
Ouch. You get those feelings insurance companies start to go bankrupt.
The FAX number is uh -
-on the top edge of the transmission he just got -
Airport, huh? You're not pissing in somebody's little pool, are you?
Need another?
I don't think so.
Yes. Another.
Al?
Right here, partner. Your stiff's dossier is coming through right now.
What can you tell me?
He's dead.
You needed a computer for that?
No, you don't follow me. According to the Department of Defense, he's been dead for 2 years.
What?
Yup. S/Sgt. Oswald Cochrane. American advisor in Honduras, killed in helicopter accident 5/11/88.  Read between the lines of his military record and it looks like a lot of black bag stuff.
Yeah, I see it. Thanks a lot, Al. I owe you. He hangs up. The girl gives him the eye.
Say, I close in an hour... maybe we could...
 Just the FAX,, ma'am. Just the FAX.
The Ghost of Christmas Past. Nakatomi? LA? You're John McClane, right?
Depends who you are.
Sam Coleman, WADC news -  Hey, I know how you feel about the media, but we're not all like that putz Thornberg - he crossed the line. That's why they canned him out in
Yeah. Now he's on the Network interviewing Transsexual Gum Surgeons and laughing all the way to the bank.
Okay. The guy makes Geraldo look like Walter Chronkite. Doesn't mean you can't cut me some slack. I saw the stiff. Word is that was your handiwork.
Nah. I do needlepoint. And he's at the end of the walkway and he quickly disappears into the crowd, leaving Sam pissed, puzzled... and out of breath.
-well, the press was here, crawling all over the Esperanza story... so they got it right on the fucking news, bloodstains and all...
Couldn't be helped, I guess. What was it, gangs?
Yeah... if your gangs get their training at Fort Bragg.
Who the hell is this?
 I'm a police officer, Mr. Trudeau-
L.A., Mr. Lorenzo-don't mean shit-
That's what I said about my last cholesterol test. What's your problem-
I think something serious is going to happen here tonight -
Hey. Something serious happens every night, only it doesn't make the newspapers. Ever see those guys on TV, juggling knives and cha n i saws? That's what we're doing with those planes up there, only we do it one handed 'cause the other hand's playing 3 card monte with the planes on the ground.
Anybody try and fix the deck tonight?  Anything weird going on besides the shooting?
We did. lose FAA approach control-
What's that?
One way we manage the planes. But we've got backup - Long look from McClane.
We're hot!
5 minutes to zero hour. Stand by.
Okay. You clot back-up - back-up for everything you think can go wrong. What about something nobody anticipated? Not accidents, not
 The human element..?
Damned straight the human element. You've got the world's biggest drug dealer on the way, one body and a'- lot of questionsl Doesn't anyone want to look for answers?
 Lorenzo. Have all your shift Commanders report in... now.
What? You're buying into this -
I want them to report anything out of the ordinary --no matter how trivial. You got that?
 I got it.
Oh, my God... Everyone turns at the chill in Barne's voice.
What is it?
Jesus...
Go to emegency lighting... now!
Emergencies! Controllers, Code Yellow! People leap into action... meanwhile, Trudeau and the others MOVE around the tower, the CAMERA FOLLOWING in a 180 TURN, watch as the LIGHTS KEEP GOING OUT.
Back up systems won't come up-!
Shunt to another terminal!
This ain't software, boss -
Maybe we should call the power company...?
We're on the same Goddamn grid and we're hot! Already the SPEAKER BOXES are beginning to CHATTER -
Jesus! Instrument landing system i s c l own!
Confirmed! ILS is dead - every Goddamn system is dead!
 Jacoby, Strauss. Get your controllers on the horn - every plane approaching our Vortacs that's not in our pattern yet gets turned away'now. Everyone already inside our patrn holds at the outer marker. Stack 'em, pack 'em, and rack 'em. Move.  I want every off duty controller and technician here in five minutes. Page the terminal - no, better, beep them.
This? This ain't it, pal. This is just the beginning. A PHONE RINGS. CAMERA ADJUSTS. It's a prominent RED PHONE.
How could they know already -?
Maybe they don't.
 Put it on speaker.
Attention, Dulles Tower. Attention, Dulles Tower -
How. did you get on this line? Who is this?
Who I am is unimportant. What I want... well, if you don't want those planes overhead to start dropping like flies when they run out of fuel... what I want is very important. All REACT - McClane as much as anyone.
A plane is going to be landing at this Airport in 58 minutes. It is FM 1 - Foreign Military 1.
Esperanza? Trudeau nods -
This plane is scheduled to be met by a continigent from the U.S. Justice-department. But now there will be a change of plans. This plane will not be met by anyone. It will land on a runway of my designation where it will not be molested. That will conclude my interest in that plane and your responsibility for it. At the same time, I want a 747 cargo conversion fully fueled.
What's all that about?
A 747 has the furthest flight capacity of anything we've got here. Take out the seats and save some weight, add the wing tanks and it could go to Australia, Africa, Asia - hell the whole Goddamn world.'
Meaning they pull Esperanza off his plane and take him anywhere there's no extradition treaties.
They're talking to us on our own Goddamn system! They gotta be close - I'll have my men tear this airport
About time, Carmine. Guess you have to light a fire under your ass to light a fire under your ass.
McClane, I got a first class unit here, SWAT team and all, and we don't need any Monday morning quarterbacks.
 Monday morning? My wife's on one of those planes these aasstards are fucking with! That makes me a player on the fucking field, you putz! And if you got off your fat ass when I told you to, maybe we wouldn't be knee deep in shit right now!
 Security!  You're out of here! And already two big Airport cops are trotting over. As Trudeau REACTS, unsure -
Mr. Trudeau. Do I have to remind you about FAA regulations regarding unauthorized personnel in the control tower?
 Trudeau, can't you see you're dealing with pros? You can't fuck with these
Sam comes out of the elevator, holding up her ID.
Oh, no, no way -
This is off limits, Coleman, you know that! Together with McClane she's shoved into the elevator.
Anything you can think-of, they'll think of, too! But the elevator DOORS CLOSE on him and now Lorenzo turns a KEY on the control panel, then SPEAKS into his walkie talkie.
Lobby Security, come in.
, Tomlinson here -
And Lorenzo here, with two unauthorized personnel in the fucking tower! Get your thumb out of your ass and get over to the elevator. Get them out and post a guard or you're gonna have a pink slip in your Christmas stocking! Rattled, the guard signals a comrade, hustles to obey.
Anything who can think of? Can't fuck with.what guys? McClane punches buttons. But it's on override.
Shit!
Big drug dealer on the way to prison. Gunfight in airport. Every controller in the coffee shop getting beeped and hauling ass, and you rocking the boat. A connection? Come on, McClane -Just a few words -?
(opening the control
How about "fuck" and "you"?
I already got that from Colonel Stuart, thanks -! McClane STOPS as if zapped by a Taser.
Huh? Who he who? But McClane has already jumped up and grabbed the light fixture, and now in a gymnast's move KICKS out the ceiling hatch and disappears through the roof!
Claustrophobic, I guess.
--guys, guys, all we have to do is find a way to transmit -
We have one.
All with their reservation computers, all tied into a nice big antenna array so they can talk to their home offices- it's just sitting there waiting to go on line -
Get what you need. Borrow, steal, kill.
 I want my Swat team to go with him as cover.  Whatever we can think of - they can think of, too. He says it like he thought of it himself. Then -
Attention, Tower. You have two more minutes to stack the planes in your inbound pattern over your outside radio marker. After that you will be able.to receive only. Any attempt to restore your systems will be met by severe penalties. At the elevator, Lorenzo pauses - stage WHISPERS -
He's bluffing - Lorenzo leaves. Trudeau ain't so sure.
I am doing this.
 Put me on all bands... Trudeau waits as switches are thrown, and then takes the jack from the ear/phone he wears and jacks it into a panel.
This is Dulles approach to all aircraft holding.at Potomic Vortac. We are experiencing...
Our NAV and Approach systems are down and we expect to lose voice in another minute. We want you to continue holding at the outer marker as directed and wait for further instructions. As - as soon as we're back on line we'll expedite your landings on a.fuel emergency basis. Good luck...
Okay. Change the boards.
 I don't believe this... another fucking elevator... another fucking basement... why does this always happen to me? He moves through the cavernous maze, and then REACTS to MUSIC. Moves towards it. And arrives in -
A HAND reaches for McClane's shoulder.
Who the fuck are you? In response, the man points to the NAMETAG on his coveralls.
Marvin, I'm Marvin. Thought you was tryin' to steal my records, that's all. He moves to them, possessively.
They're valuble, you know. Me, I like those old 78's. Won't find me switching like everybody else to these new fangled 45's.
You're what, the janitor?
Damn straight. Janitor, and proud of it. Don't need any of this new fangled custodial engineer crap. Just do my job and screw the fancy talk. You know, you're not supposed to be down here.
W-who said I was living here? McClane shows his badge.
Come on, Marvin. I wasn't born yesterday. Carmine Lorenzo know you don't go home after you punch out?
L-Lorenzo? C-come on, officer, I can barely get by, even with my pension. You know, I'm a vet, WW 2? If it wasn't for guys like me, you kids' be eatin' sushi today. I'm just trying to. save a few. bucks -I could. get fired if you tell. McClane moves over to a big panel with telephone lines and jacks. Examines it as he speaks.
I'm a veteran myself, Marvin. And a married one. You married?
Six times.
My wife may be in some trouble upstairs. I gotta find out. This set up of yours? I won't tell a soul... provided you patch me into this panel, 'let me eavesdrop on the tower. What do you say?
You a cop or a lawyer?
Through the annex skywalk to the new terminal... that way nobody sees them, we don't have any panic.
And we don't want any disasters. Barnes has five minutes to check out that antenna array.
 Christ. They're gonna try something cute... where's this annex skywalk?
Annex skywalk...? Sounds like the pissant World's Fair... He rummages around, finds a big wrinkled MAP, smoothes it out.
Lemme see... yeah, must be this... connects to the new terminal - Marvin points to an ELEVATED WALKWAY connecting the two complexes.
 Shit, it's a fucking bottleneck. Anybody smart enough to shut down the airport is smart enough to figure this... it's a perfect place for an ambush...
Now, see? Here's you. And here's the skywalk.
Tunnels.
Looks like... maybe a mile. Easy jog.
Whoa.
Winter up there... Summer down here. He aims Marvin's flashlight down there, isn't enchanted with what he sees. He turns, takes Marvin's map.
I owe you one, Marvin. How about a sixpack of malt liquor?
How 'bout a case of Johnny Walker?  Hey, I may be homeless, but I ain't tasteless.
 We're in the annex skywalk. I can see the dish! I'll call you as soon as it's hot for a protocol test.
Hey! Put that back on! No reaction. The cop runs forward.
SWAT COP HEY! ASSHOLE! What do I look like to you? The man TURNS. It's REI , one of the ones who killed the real painters. He ha a GUN. % O R7lLLY A sitting dunk-. -- He SHOOTS him.
Barnes suddenl alizes he's all alone. FOOTSTEPS approach him. He looks up. ulke is ri ht above him -
Oh, fuck
You okay?.
Time you don't have...
So is that plane... practically. Despite herself, she looks out.
Yeah. There's quite a few out there; we're in a regular traffic jam.
There's nothing regular about it.
Don't you mean nauseous?
The people have a right to know, Mrs. McClane. You got in the way of that.
You endangered my children... my husband.. and me.
And you didn't do it for anything as noble as "the people". The only time you see the people is when you're climbing over their backs.
 --me? I'll live. But Lorenzo's SWAT team is dead... and the antenna array is toast. Start looking for a new miracle. AN EERIE ALIEN TYPE VOICE makes them both jump; McClane raises his GUN.
I say again, Annex team... report in. Annex team, report in. He looks at Stuart, concerned.
What...?
Some kind of scrambler so even if we scan their frequency we can't listen in. Descramble mode must activate on this code panel.
So are you. Break the code -
Eight numbers - that's 8 X 7 X 6 times
You were right... they went for the antenna array. We're right on schedule.
Except losing our own team wasn't part of the plan. He comes to a decision. Picks up the phone. Speaks. Voice flat, firm, stern. Around and above him, his men hover over the improvised screens and terminals.
Attention, Dulles. You were warned not to try and restore your systems.
You've wasted lives and time on a futile and obvious target. Now you have to pay the penalty.
There's five dead officers here, Colonel Stuart - Isn't that penalty enough?
McClane! Keep out of this! You- He stops, seeing the chilling look Trudeau is giving him.
McClave? John McClane? The... policeman hero who saved the Nakatomi hostages? I read about you in People magazine. You seemed out of your league on Nightline, though...
Yeah, Colonel. We were both famous for five minutes. Saw you get shit canned by Congress on TV. How much drug money is Esperanza paying you to turn traitor?
I think Cardinal Richlieu said it best: Treason is merely a matter of dates. And this country has to learn it can't keep cutting the legs off men. like General Esperanza -men with the guts to stand up to Soviet agression.
And lesson one starts with killing policemen? What's lesson two - the Neutron bomb?
I think we can find something in between.  Give me a flight number - one low on fuel. Another man hands him a slip of paper. He reads it, switches to another mike .
Windsor flight one-four-teen, this is Dulles Approach... do you copy?
Approach, this is one-fourteen. Where the devil have you been?
We been right here, old man. But our systems didn't come back on line until just this second.
Christ, helsbringing them You're cleared for approach down! Why are they on Runway 29. Report to the listening? Tower at the Outer Marker.
BARNES Roger, Approach, and about time: I've got 230 people It's our frequency. Why up here flying on petrol shouldn't they? fumes.
The son-of-a-bitch... the Goddamn son-of-a-bitch- I'll bet. Okay, calibrate your altimeter at setting MCCLANE'S VOICE two-nine-nine-two. Turning What? you over to Tower...now.
That's the runway between here and the new terminal... he wants to make all of.us watch it.
Don't do it... you bastards, don't do it..! Desperate, McClane runs to the spilled paint, grabs turpentine, rags, pieces of scaffolding.
What are you doing?
 Ladies and Gentlemen, as you've probably noticed, we've started our descent.
We're sorry about the inconvenience, but we'll all be on the ground in a few minutes. The spent and exhausted people REACT. Some break into APPLAUSE and CHEERS of "HIP HIP." But one NICE ENGLISH GRANNY -clearly not an experienced air traveler - still looks TENSE. A STEWARDESS pauses to pat her shoulder reassuringly.
Just like British rail, luv. May be.late but we get you there.
There he's a tiny SHADOW on the white field. He turns, RUNS across the. unlit airport... wind whipped SNOW quickly hiding him from Barnes.
 Activate ILS landing system. But Recalibrate sea level. Minus 200 feet. 31$p,son - the main TECH here - OBEYS, with an unhealthy GRIN. He punches DIALS - a SCREEN LIGHTS UP - Stuart plays with his mike button to create static as he "switches" the incoming plane from the approach operator to the tower operator - both, of course, played by him...
Oh, God...no...
Can't we cut in, jam them -
Everything's dead.
Christ. It's McClane. He'll get himself killed -
 Come on, see the torch, see the
Dulles, this is Windsor one fourteen. Inside the outer marker.
(doing a different voice
Roger, Windsor. This is Dulles Tower. We have radar contact and show you on ILS. You are in the glide path and looking good.
Wait a minute... something down there through the snow... looked like a light...
 Probably our runway systems coming back up. Don't worry about it you're coming in on instruments.
Roger. Flaps down. Airspeed 100 knots... 80... 70...
RVR 1/4 mile... . altitude 1000 feet... 800... Ref plus 20...
No... no, Jesus, Mary, Mother of God, no... pull up... pull up...
600 feet...
Looking good, Windsor... watch it - there's a 30 knot cross wind and the runway's icy - atta boy -atta
Four hundred feet - two hund-
Tower, this is Rescue Three. No survivors. Repeat, no surviv- He stops, looking puzzled at McClane, who is torn, bloody. McClane.sees the look. Laughs bizzarely.
Relax, pal, I'm not a survivor. I'm just another victim. He grabs the rescue worker by the collar.
.the last fucking victim he'll ever have.
Dios, los calambres!  Muchacho, si possible a removar eses?  De donde a yo caminar, si? The young guard shakes his head.
Desculpe me, mi General. No tengo el permiso.
Bueno, joven, bueno! Tu eres un soldado excelente! Ahora, en vez del libertad - dame un fosforo? Flattered, the kid lights him up.
Sir. They've done everything we've anticpated... so far- Stuart smiles tightly at the unvoiced question.
Don't worry, Captain. If this goes into extra innings...
--hundreds of people in the terminal heard or saw the crash, but still there has been no official word from authorities. Meanwhile - despite the fact that only one runway has been closed due to the tragedy, several dozen airliners are visible from where I stand, endlessly circling the field. Rumors abound that somehow the accident has interfered with normal landing procedures here.
Other reports say there were difficulties in the tower before the crash, and that they may have even contributed to it. One thing is certain: With weather conditions worsening, the problem here and in the sky above us will continue to grow. This is Samantha Coleman at Dulles International Airport.
Barnes. We have to warn those planes we got a lunatic down here who likes to pretend he's the tower. Get up to the cab and get us on the air.
On the air? With what?
With your Goddamn brain! Barnes leaves. McClane blinks, coming around to reality. Sees Trudeau.
Trudeau... I... I...
You don't have to say anything, McClane. We all know how you feel.
Do you? Do you? I've been a cop 13 years... Everything from... lost kids to hostages... but... all of it was... taking care of business... taking care of peoplle... until tonight. Tonight, everything I did, everything I tried...
 Our own SWAT team's gone. We called the Government for help. They're sending in a special Army unit. Tactical Terrorist Team... McClane sees something else there in his eyes.
And...?
Your wife's plane...?  They keep broadcasting, even though we can't answer. They... they'll run out of fuel in 90 minutes. CAMERA PUSHES IN on McClane.
Listen, Dick -
A stronger mouthwash would be nice. He glares at her, moves down the aisle.
Victor. Victor!
Uh - yeah, what?
Did you pack the radio mikes from the shoot, or put them in your carry on?
Are you crazy? I wouldn't let those assholes check 'em -
I love you. Get one of the receivers. Puzzled, the man pulls his bag from under the seat, gets one out.
Can you tune in the cockpit frequency? I want to hear what's going on.
4 Should be on our band... He TUNES the mike's receiver, monitoring. with an earplug.
You just said it would work -
It is working. But all I get is...
Stay on it. Tell me if anything changes.
As the ROTORS keep TURNING, SOLDIERS and the CHOPPER CREWS hustle out of the choppers, the wind blowing over them and their equipment. A powerfully built MAJOR in his late 40's walks forward past the waiting men like someone in a receiving line. Everyone SHOUTS over the NOISE.
We're the Triple T's. I'm Major Grant. i JUSTICE MAN
One crisis... one dozen. Who are you?
John McClane.
McClane... Oh, yeah, you're the one who tried to save that plane tonight.
Unfortunately the pros are on the other side. Colonel Stuart is one of your boys -
cto his men) All right, hustle! Command post will be in the Airport Police office. I want to be tied into the Tower and every sysytem that's still working in fifteen minutes!
You heard the man, troop! Move it! GEAR and WEAPONS get hustled into the building as the Choppers
Trudeau.  Did things just get better... or worse?
Lights! Big portable lights! We set up on the field and -
And wait for those lunatics to shoot them out? And where do we get those "big portable lights"? Borrow them from Batman?
Semaphore! That gets my vote-
Your vote? You voted for Dukakis! (exasperated, to another
What about the airphone idea?
Eighteen planes up there; only five have those phones. We got through to three of them, still trying with the others.
Great, that leaves thirteen accidents waiting to happen. Are they still bucking headwinds? That's eating up most of their fuel.
Just checked the weather. Headwinds slamming right into everybody over the outer marker. The planes with enough fuel were already shunted to
Suddenly Barnes' expression changes.
Damn! The Outer Marker! (on t eir loo s It's a beacon, right? A radio beacon, that sends out this "boop-boop-boop" so they know they're over it, right?
So?
So, who says that radio signal has to be just "boop-boop boop"?
-and we can talk to the planes and those bas ar s w o did this will never know! And as faces brighten for the first time in hours, we
Traced the signal, found it in the luggage area. they've been tapped into the tower all night. McClane and Trudeau look at Lorenzo, who looks away, embarassed. The young CORPORAL has set up his radio gear in the receptionist's area. Now, he TUNES in that GARBLE.
That's all we keep hearing. Can you do anything with it?
 If I had a few hours...
 My wife has less than two.
Except Colonel Stuart? The kid can't answer. Then Grant appears, the MAN from the Justice Department in tow.
 Trudeau. Lorenzo. You brief me on that plane he asked for, I'll fill you in on my orders. In my office. Now. "My office" meaning Lorenzo's. Lorenzo glowers at that, but the little group moves in that direction - then the JUSTICE GUY puts up his hand to block McClane -
What the fuck -
What is it?
The outer marker beeper? It's not beeping. It's talking. And saying this he turns up a DIAL -
Holy shit - we - we gotta get this on tape - Victor GRINS. And pulls a MICROCASSETTE RECORDER from his shirt pocket. It is ALREADY JACKED INTO THE RECEIVER and TURNING. Thornberg all but cackles.
We believe this channel is secure but your own transmissions are not. Do not repeat do not attempt to reply on your own frequencies to this broadcast. These people have already caused one crash by impersonating
Jesus!
 -repeat, do not accept any instructions claiming to be from our tower unless you hear your own flight recorder access code. We will get this from your respective airlines and use it for confirmation.
Hey, officer. Thought you'd be upstairs by now, hanging out with the top brass.
They kind of busted me down to buck private.
I know that feeling. Interested in a nice coat?
I was just a kid, working those radios on the B-29's. But I kept up. Still read Popular Mechanics. These transistor things, I'm on top of 'em - Marvin realizes that McClane has'a funny expression.
You okay, son?
We've pussied out around the world, over and over again. We drop the Shah, fuck Marcos, throw Noriega overboard. You know what they think around the globe? The worst thing that can happen to you is to have America as a friend. And now that stain head Gorbachov, he's got some nice English suits, and a wife without gold teeth, so now the Commies are nice? Gentlemen, we are soldiers and we do not believe in fairy tales sweet though they may seem. Well, tonight, the pattern ends. The dominos will fall no more and the ramparts will remain upri-
(ca 11 ing--out.3- Sir! General Esperanza's plane just came on the scope. Stuart hurries up into the choir loft, CAMERA ADJUSTING. He takes up the phone.
Attention, Dulles Tower...
I am lighting up a runway now. Do not - repeat, do not - attempt to land any planes. Remember, I am monitoring you. And now, like magic - one DISTANT RUNWAY twinkles on. Almost immediately the CHATTER from the sky picks up: QUESTIONS.
What do we do?
Obey.
Dulles Tower to FM-i. Dulles Tower to FM-1...
You are to come in on runway fifteen, repeat, runway fifteen. By now the CAMERA is in the REAR CABIN. Just in time to SEE Esperanza STRANGLE the nice young corporal with the chain from his handcuffs. He lets the body drop, nice and soft so it doesn't make a sound. Taking the handcuff key from the body, he frees himself...
The code... the code's still punched... where did you get this?
Came with the coat; over near the luggage belts. Looks like one of them Japanese radios... can't hold a candle to a nice Zenith if you ask me... You like it, huh? How about twenty dollars?
How about I let you live?
. Man knows how to bargain...
He STOPS. He's seen Esperanza, who has come into the cockpit holding the corporal's pistol..
Capitain, please tell the tower you will proceed as ordered.
Suddenly the CO-PILOT LEAPS for Esperanza! Esperanza WHIRLS, SHOOTS TWICE - one shot KILLS him - but one SHATTERS
Esperanza is at the controls, trying to SEE through the SWIRLING WHIRLWIND. Cursing, he flies with one hand; with the other he REACHES UP and FEELS ABOVE the RADIO PANEL for something he expects to be there: And it IS - one of the DISTINCTIVE
Go ahead, Falcon -
Repeat, I have lost cabin pressure. Near zero visibility. I must drop out of the storm. I can land but I must land now, on the first outgoing runway. Repea , I cannot circle around to runway fifteen. PULLBACK. McClane listens, grinning. He takes the airport map from his pocket, hands it the Marvin.
Marvin... you show me a shortcut to runway fifteen and you got yourself a liner for that coat.
(nodding, into
Roger, Falcon. That would be... Eleven West-3: It's a straight run from the ocean -
Thank you for telling me, Eagle Nest. But if you could show it to me as well I would be grateful. In the church, Stuart grins at Esperanza's coo]., signals Thompson. A switch is THROWN. The FIRST RUNWAY goes OFF and a NEW RUNWAY lights up DIRECTLY IN FRONT of the plane.
Gracias', Amigos.
Eleven W4, W5 - Bingo.
Eagle Nest, do you copy? I'm coming down, now.
We copy, Falcon. We'll have you in five minutes.
Isee your lights. Wheels down. 5 seconds ETA. McClane checks his pistol clip with a snap.
Come to poppa, you son-of-a-bitch- He flies up the ladder - and BRUISES his shoulder against the locked grid.
Shit!
 Freedom.
Not yet. McClane's FIST smacks in, knocking Esperanza back from the door.
Thought you'd pull this off, didn't you? I guess you didn't count on me being here. Actually, I didn't count on me being here.
W-who are you?
Just a cop who's spent half his career busting scumbag lowlife dope dealers. Looks like it's business as usual. Think this will look good on my record? Suddenly BULLETS PING on the hatch inches from McClane's head.
No. NcClane 'DIVES and rolls into the cabin - FIRES TWICE out the door and then almost on instinct whirls - Esperanza's snatched up the rifle from the dead corporal but McClane's SHOT hits him in the SHOULDER. With a HOWL, Esperanza falls backwards but hangs on to the gun.
General!
 I'm all right - he said he was a ,policeman...
A policeman - PUSH to Stuart. He knows which policeman...
He went in the cockpit -
He's going to hell.
You're ite a little soldier. So - consider this a mi itary unera And he OPENS FIRE. The others instantly join in.
How many grenades we have?
Use 'em. Pop. Pop pop pop. Each man PULLS TWO PINS - THROWS - Then they run for their jeep, carrying the body of their comrade-
WHOMP! The 'chute OPENS with violent YANK.
But Stuart turns at the SOUND of SIRENS.
Fall back to the Church! Now! Helping the wounded Esperanza, they vanish into the darkness.
They're getting pretty squirrely back there... in fact, so am I.
We're right over Washington... see if you can get any TV. That'll settle 'em down.
Works for me. I'll - She STOPS. She's SEEN
 Boy, am I good...
Writing your acceptance speech for the video sleaze awards?
 Try Pulitzer, Mrs. McClane. But now that stewardess reaches up and turns on the TV PROJECTOR. As the lights DARKEN, Thornberg decides this is perfect cover. pretending he's getting a blanket overhead, he slips his credit card in one of airphones. Then he moves down the aisle, phone I inside his jacket.
Sir, please - we may be landing at any moment -the seat belt light is-
I- I'm going to be sick - He makes a croaking noise to sell it, stumbles into the lavatory.
 This is Richard Thornberg. Put me through to the News Director.
Esperanza's down... but he's hurt. I killed one more man... that's six they've lost all together.
McClane, we don't need a loose cannon on this deck. What if they decide to crash another plane in retaliation for your little stunt?
Maybe they're more creative than you
.The story of my life. But the enlisted men seem sympathetic. And so does
McClane. You said they showed up there right away?
Stuart's guys? Yeah. That means they're on the field or close -
I think I know where. Interested, McClane'follows Barnes around the corner.
These are the old plans when the longer runways went in... that's twelve years ago. And it looks like they did some modifications on site... moved Tracon, phone, ILS - all the underground stuff -so they could handle drainage. If I'm right, all of it would run along the edge of the airport property - and go right past this neighborhood.
So - if they know this too - they could be sitting around the fireplace and hanging their fucking stockings in one of these houses?
Maybe. Yeah. Well, seventy eighty per cent, five percent either way-
Are you sure or not?
I was sure about tying into the antenna array. And... and I got five officers killed.
You didn't do that - you did your
I had a choice and I made it. But those cops didn't have a choice, and neither do those soldiers now. I'm an engineer, McClane. It's supposed to a wires and circuits... iron and steel. Not flesh and blood. Not lives. If...if I'm wrong again... I don't want anyone else to get orders that could get them killed.
 Then how would you feel about a volunteer?
Somebody ought to get their ass kicked for this mess, that's for sure.
It's hard to blame anyone for the
Yeah? What about that porker Willard Scott?
Yes?
I... was just wondering. Our flight was only supposed to.be 5 1/2 hours-
Oh, of course we do. They anticipate little proems like this. She moves away. We TIGHTEN on Holly. She's chilled by the lie. Worried, she TURNS... looks at the AirPhone. X)
Hell. These people are hanging their Goddamn stockings. They DROP down into the snow, CRUNCH to the next fence. Look
- and these people aren't.
Four more possibles. Three houses... and a church. They cross the intersection on foot, walk over a lawn. It's further to the next place; more prosperous yard. Suddenly McClane puts up his hand -Barnes stops - both look at -
Could be a sentry -
And he could just be out for a walk-
Then why is he going over his own footprints?
He raises the antenna, realizes he's got to move - runs towards the street.
You're where - you crazy idiot, why' didn't you -
Just get here,.this is it, move your fat ass will ya -? Grant signals his Sergeant and then it's like D-Day as ALL the SOLDIERS and some COPS hustle out -
Gentlemen. We have... a situation here... CLICK CLICK SNAP. AMMO CLIPS are broken out - all PIGGYBACKED like combat hardened troops do it, two banana clips taped together with blue tape.
Baker yanks a combat knife from his boot and'DIVES on McClane -bo i HIT the wall of the church's detached garage -SNOW and ICE fall from the roof, but both men ignore it - McClane's LEFT hand can't force awa akers RIGHT hand and the KNIFE. The bastard is STRONG and now his left jumps out and pins McClane's RIGHT so-it can't help-- The knife creeps towards McClane's throat! McClane is fucke -and then his desperate eyes look at something nearby - We FOCUS CHANGE - it's a big ICICLE -with his last strength McClane.BREAKS out of Baker's grip, grabs the icicle- -and STABS it RIGHT in Baker's EYE!
McClane, what the hell do you think you're doing, playing John Wayne? How'd you like to spend the rest of the night in a cell -
You can't talk to me like that -
Oh, no, Carmine?
With pleasure, sir! I And Lorenzo is HUSTLED away. McClane takes out a cigarette.
I was wrong. You're not an asshole.
i No, you were right. I'm just your- kind of asshole.
Close up the back, then we go in. Fire only on my order. McClane and Barnes watch as the soldiers start to close the net.
Everyone DIVES for COVER as a STAINED GLASS WINDOW is BROKEN and a rifle POKES out. GUNFIRE lights up the street, REFLECTS on the snow!
Gentlemen, you know what to do-
Fuck...
They did. CAMERA RAKES to the sergeant, who is by a BLINKING BOOBY TRAP hidden under a panel.
Got one here, too - looks like C-4 and the mother fucker is primed-
Evacuate! Now!
Hey. Where the fuck is McClane?
This is for flight one fourteen, mother fucker - He FIRES.
Shit! He AIMS at the APPROACHING SNOWMOBILES -FIRES -
Blanks... blanks? .Paleing, he rummages in the snow, finds one of the soldier's backpacks. More clips inside. First clip has live ammo. Second clip - blanks CAMERA PUSHES in on McClane until he looks at the red/blue tape and -makes the connection.
Oh, my God... He gets. to his feet and RUNS.
It is. It's in hanger eleven. That's the most remote building we've got. Stuart looks at his map, then the hanger mentioned; not far.
We're on our way. If there's another attempt to stop us like the one-you just made, I will fire several Stinger missiles into your terminal. Do I make myself clear?
Quite clear.
Good. Please have a ground crew there to confirm the plane's condition.
Major Grant, .isn't it?
If you remember me, Colonel, you'll remember I know the drill as well as you do. Check out your own fucking plane.
Dick, this is nuts - first, you do Siamese Twin drag queens, not hard news; and second, every station in I town has people out at the airport and none of them has heard even a whisper of this shit you're running
Well, none of them is me. You want proof? Try this - And he PLAYS the MICROCASSETTE. We HEAR Barnes' earlier
In the TV station, STUNNED reaction.
I want you to go live, now. Key me in from the files, a publicity shot, whatever, Connie's got one. And a map, steal one from weather-
We're on it, we're on it -
Network, here we come...
--"I was in Grenada", he says! All LAUGH'- the bitter laughter of the battlefield.
Grenada - five minutes of firefight five weeks of surfing! LAUGHTER, which SUBSIDES a bit as Grant looks at his watch.. a look DUPLICATED by the others.
(oblivious to this,
I wish I was with you guys for that.
So do we, kid.
Yeah. Then we wouldn't have to do this. And in a flash, Grant DRAWS his combat knife and SLITS the kid's throat! Telford FLOPS BACK off the bench. Grant is already digging into the cargo pocket of his trousers and he comes out with a transceiver - the same distinctive scrambled transceiver used by Stuarts men!
 This is a special bulletin from WZDC News. There was a plane crash earlier this evening at Dulles, where other aircraft continue to circle, with no explanation from Airport or FAA officials. Now, with an exclusive KLA report, here is Dick Thornberg, reporting from the skies over Washington. That gets all the sports fan's attention. Now a SUPER of I TH rnberg's FACE comes up in the corner of the newsroom.
This is a recording of a conversation between Dulles tower and the captive aircraft overhead. With a smug smile, Thornberg plays the tape again.
McClane! Are you out of your fucking mind-?
This man's been through serious shit,
Who the fuck are you?
(pointing to his
Marvin, the janitor. Don't need that. custodial enginner crap -
They left to shoot those bastards out of the sky -
They're not gonna do that -they're gonna get on the same Goddamn plane and leave with him! Before the Army canned him, Stuart must have loaded that unit with his own guys -
But - that firefight at the house-
A side show to jerk us off - buy them
You're completely around the fucking bend, McClane. And you know what else?  You're under arrest - McClane steps back - raises the assault rifle - FIRES.
Wha - how -
 These are the bullets they used out there tonight.
Holy shit -
 Since then this reporter has learned that the terrorists have virtual control of the entire airport - a fact the authorities have suppressed. The terrorists promise more bloodshed unless their demands are met; and now that special Army Commandoes have arrived at the airport, the liklihood of a full scale and deadly battle is dangerously close -
Christ - that fucking asshole -
 Move that piece of shit! Henderson, get some crowd control! Goddamn it, clear the area-! McClane jumps out of the car - looks around and SEES -
thru OMITTED thru
 My God... Then something else sinks in; she looks at the empty airphone cradle on the wall gets quickly out of her seat - in mid-stride she STOPS - takes her seatmate's PURSE. Then, she sidesteps some panicked people, goes to the kitchen area. And finds one of the special keys for the lavatories.
.,and if this should be my final
WHAM. She ZAPS him with the old lady's TASER. He TWITCHES - DROPS! She picks up the phone.
Amen to that, asshole.  We're sorry, but Mr. Thornberg is experiencing electrical problems. We now resume our regular programming.
Jesus. You give me this story, I'll have your baby.
Thanks; but I'm looking for a different kind of ride. And he POINTS to -
thru OMITTE thru
 Hatchling, report in. What is your position?
My position is I'm gonna get my ass reamed out by the best Goddamn soldier on the planet 'cause I'm two minutes late. Stuart GRINS, signals for the hanger door to be opened.
Congratulations on your escape, sir.
Thank you, Major. Save them until we are all safe - and excuse a left handed salute, eh?
 My congratulations, gentlemen. You've won a victory for democracy... my pride and admiration... and a kick ass vacation! Get on board! With a CHEER, they run up the stairs 'to the plane.
Too rough for you, cowboy?
I - don't like flying.
Then what are you doing here?
I like losing worse.
Shit! They're leaving!
Now what?
Get 'em to stop! Hover low, block their path!
Play chicken with a 200 ton plane? Hey, I'm crazy, but not that crazy-
Dulles, this is Western one-forty-
Request clearance on first available runway. Repeat, request emergency
Negative, one fourteen, our.situation is unchanged.
Well, mine just changed, Goddamn it! We're down to fumes and we have to .land! And in five minutes we're coming in one way or another!
 That's my wife's plane, Goddamnit-!
I'm still not getting in front of it! Pause - McClane furious - but the pilot equally tough.
We have no choice but to attempt an emergency landing. Please put on your safety belts and assume crash positions as instucted by the cabin attendants.
\ 'ihru OMITTED thru
I-I didn't mean any harm - I just wanted ratings - I had to do it it was sweeps week -
 I've had enough fucking snow for a lifetime.
They don't get much of it in the tropics.
What?
The aerilons! Something's wrong -we can't take off - He looks out the window - and REACTS to -
 You just get us in the air, General. You're the only one who can do it.
(through his teeth, as
Too - bad - McClane - The SOUND of metal SLIDING - a KNIFE APPEARS in Grant's hand-
I like you better dead.
Hey, Colonel: Happy Fucking New Year. And he THROWS THE CIGARETTE INTO THE FUEL.
 Honey... there's your landing lights.
Look - ! The pilot grabs controls desperately, trims the plane -
 One forty is down! They used the fire to see -
They can all do that - let's tell
They already know. Listen. And sure enough, there it is - the SOUND of ENGINES -
Holly - HOLLY -HOLLY!
God, that's beautiful -
Yeah. It sure is. And she yanks out his power cord, watches it dreamily.
Damned if I'm cleaning up this mess. McClane and Holly get in the cart. Marvin drives them away, light BLINKING... and we PULLBACK until McClane and Holly are just part of the crowd.
