Whoa, did you see that thing?
Settle down, slow it down...
You don't want to scare him off. You've got his attention, now just play with him. Tease him a little.
Holy shit!
It's all you, Kale, keep cranking!
I need reinforcements!
Heave, laddie!
 Give it all ya got, mate, or you're gonna lose him!
 Dad, your pirate -- impersonation -- sucks!!
How would ya know, have ya ever met one? I doubt it --
He's freakin' pulling us in!
 Never! No Brecht has ever -- lost a fight -- to a fish!
Throw me a --
Hey, at least the weather's great... we're spending quality time together.
 That fish is going down.
 Let's nab the bastard.
 Hey mom, it's us. Listen, fire up the grill 'cause the Bassmasters are headed home!
You're kidding. So I can actually put the burgers away this time?
Yes, be gone with the red meat!
 We're having fish for a week.
 I'd say an hour. Love you, too.
DAD --
Kale?   -- Kale, are you okay?
I think so.
Oh my God, dad --
I'm fine. But you're gonna have to climb out, Kale. Can you do that?
I can't -- It won't give --
That's okay, I've got it -- grab the door, I don't need your ass falling on my face --
Dad, here --
Dad, please, you can do it --
Kale, you have to climb up --
No -- I'm not leaving --
Kale --
NO -- Dad, please, I've got you --
 I know --
 Este verano, despus             This summer, after visiting de visitar Hawaii,               Hawaii, I will perhaps quizs visitar a mis            visit my grandparents in abuelos en Corea.                Korea.
Quizs no. Quizs                Perhaps I won't. Perhaps apenas permanecer en            I'll just stay at home. el pas. Pero quizs             But perhaps my parents mis padres tomarn la            will take pity on me. compasin en mi. Perhaps they will make my Quizs harn mi sueo            dream a reality! Perhaps una realidad! Quizs             they will take me to a me llevarn a una playa          beach on the French Riviera en la riviera francesa           so that I may gaze upon de modo que pueda mirar          the natural beauty of its sobre la belleza natural         female inhabitants. de sus habitantes femeninos...
 Keep dreaming, perv.
Perhaps... Thank you. Quizs... Gracias.
Senor Brecht...
Dude --
So Kale, think you can stay conscious long enough to tell us your plans for the three wondrous summer months ahead?
Este invierno --
 Verano...
Este verano -- voy a --
Qu?
I don't know, alright?    I haven't gotten that far.
Did you do the homework or not?
 Guess not.
 You "guess" not. I don't know who you think you are or who you think you're dealing with. You can't give me a straight answer, fine, give me one good reason why I shouldn't fail you right now?
Okay, Mr. Brecht...
You're six months shy of eighteen, that means the assault-two charge you've pled guilty to carries a max of one year in juvey. With these priors, you're up to three.
But losing a parent isn't easy. Which is why I'm sentencing you to three months house arrest.
You can thank your counselors and lawyer later. Mr. Brecht, I just cut you a break. Don't test me.
 Okay, you... are all set... to go nowhere.  Now, green means you're good, you're in the safe zone which covers about 
a sixty-foot radius from this guy here.
He's like a modem. He gets a constant signal from Mr. Bracelet that he sends through your phone line to the monitoring station downtown. So they know where you are, where you've been and what you're thinkin' 25/7.
What if he accidentally goes beyond --
 Red light flashes. Means you've got about ten seconds to get your butt back to green, or else --
The execution squad shows up?
And they don't bring blindfolds. It's also tamper proof and waterproof. So don't try sticking your foot in a bucket of water and hopping across the line. It won't work, and you'll look stupid. Now, I'll be checking up on you a lot. Here's my card -- You're set up to pay his incarceration fee, Ms. Brecht?
Automatic withdrawal.  Twelve bucks every day.
 Everything else is in the manual.  Oh, except this -- House arrest might sound like a breeze, but trust me, I've seen all kinds of folks get a bit loopy before too long, some after just a day or two. So make sure you find lots of constructive things to keep yourself busy.
 Hobby, you read me? I said come around my left flank and draw his fire -- damn straight I'm trying to get you smoked, you've been hiding behind my ass the whole game --
Hobby, Jet, you guys still there?
Dinner's on the table. I'm closing at the restaurant the next few nights. Could be some late ones, but hey... the extra tips couldn't hurt.
 Where's my apron... apron...
You wanna talk about anything?
I got nothin'.
Y'know, when we're finally free of all this legal stuff with the accident, the other families' lawyers... there might be a little insurance money left... maybe you should go back and see Dr. Phillips?
What, so he can tell me I'm ADD, have PTSD, and severe IAD?
IAD?
 Freakin' irritated ankle disorder.
Well, that one could've been avoided.
 Do the dishes.  Please?
 C'mon, bid a dollar, one dollar --
I'll bid one dollar, Bob.
 More trash TV?
...Thirty-three year old Patricia Walsh was last seen three nights ago...
 News.
The lawyer's sending some papers over.
And your point is?
 I've got two open houses, you've gotta sign for them. That's the point.
You canceled my Xbox subscription.
I-tunes, too.  You know what else I'm canceling?
Maid service.  Sorry, you're a felon. And we're broke. I can't do it all, anymore, Kale. This isn't gonna be vacation as usual. I want these washed and the kitchen cleaned by the time I get home.
That might be difficult.
Well let me make it easier.
That's a little dramatic, isn't it? I'm just gonna plug it back --
What are you, mental?
 One more look at that kitchen and I will be.
You heard what I said about the lawyer?
Yes!
 Dammit, Ronnie, I'm losing my mind. 
Give me some details, what's happening out there?
 Dude, the chicks here in Oahu rock the houusse! Oh my god, this one is totally showing me her kite board. Belay that, she wasn't pointing at me. Look, Kale, I've gotta hop --
Wait, Ronnie -- Hello?
GODDAMMIT!
I'm coming!!
Oh shit!   Shit water shit!
What a retard!
You think that's funny?
What are you gonna do, kill us like your teacher?
Not before I shove this shit up your ass!
 Dude, you said he couldn't leave his house!!
Shit!
Turn green turn green turn green...
No, c'mon, I'm way inside, turn green --
Yes!   That's what I'm talking about!
It's cool, I'm all green.
 Kale, calm down, the officers were probably in the neighborhood already.
 Okay, fine, but if I'd known --
Kale, first times happen. The officers knew that. But next time they will take you to jail.
Hi, I'm from McNeill-Stewart law firm, dropping off for Ms. Julie --
Hey doggie, come here...
 Hey, you and me both.
 Aloooha Senor Ka-- Dude, you look like hell.
Seriously man, you need some sun. 
 Hey, I've gotta show you this.    Maui chicks rule.
 I've got something to show you, too.  I mean... there's such structure to it, so many layers, but it's invisible if you're not looking close enough...
What are you talking about?
The world right outside the window.
-- Fascinating.
 Just wait... and...  Three... two... one... dog...
...Mrs. Pilch... saying goodbye to Lonnie...
Husband?
 Maid.
Four o'clock every Thursday, she goes to the country club to play tennis with Betty Big-Bangs there.
And... ladies disappear... cue white Mercedes... Mr. Pilch... arriving from the office...
Great, that still doesn't explain why you're in a bathrobe at four in the afternoon.
 Will you just look --
Dude, he's gonna see --
He can't. We don't have any lights on. Plus the angle's sharper from ground level, it only seems like he could see us. I did the math.
Oh, you did the math.
Optical illusion, line-of-sight doesn't apply to the subject.
Kale --
Now tilt your gaze up...
DAMN!!
 Seal this area off, Kale.
C'mon, there's more.
What, I go to Maui, you become a stalker?
No, stalking's for psychos. These are just simple observations... natural side effects of chronic boredom.
 Find your passion, Kale.
 So... Robert Giles...
He's lived there a couple of years, but I've never noticed he mows his lawn every two days.
Huh, I guess he likes his grass short.
Next to him is Judy Thorp. Dude, she freakin' sneaks over to her neighbors' every morning, steals their newspaper, I guess reads it or swipes the coupons, then puts it back before they even wake up.
 No shit? (weirdly eyeing Kale who heads out) People. You never can tell these days.
What was that?
Last stop on the tour.
Oh-- my-- God. Who be she?
Don't know.
What's stopping you?!
Can I help you?
Nope, no I'm fine.
 Too late.
Thanks, that was really humiliating.
Please. I think any pride you had left was gone a while ago.
Oh, you mean that thing with the cops? They had the wrong guy, total foul up. I'm Kale by the way.
Hey, so -- how'd the move go?
Still going.
I'd help, but...  I'm a little spatially challenged at the moment.
Yeah, you've kinda got the whole Martha Stewart thing going on --
 But minus the 48-hour allowance for office visits. And no lame "Apprentice" spin-off.  So where'd you move from?
I'm a city girl. Born, raised, and now...  Forcefully relocated.
That doesn't sound good.
I'm telling you, if I have another clueless jock hit on me or one more soccer mom cuts me off in her oversize SUV, I'm gonna go postal.
Oh, sorry, I was just gonna see if you wanted to hop in my Hummer and cruise to a kegger.  Nice talking to you.
 Wait, I --
 Ashley? Can you come in here, please?
 My mom -- she's very polite, always says "please" but she's got that tone, did you notice?
I know the tone.
 Oh, I'm Ashley --
Noticed that, too.
...attended a friend's birthday party at a local nightclub before she was last seen alone at a diner outside Madison, 50 miles east of here. A waitress said Ms. Walsh was picked up around 10:30 P.M. by an unidentified person driving a black 1960's era Mustang that was dented on the left side and may have --
 You started without me?
What are you stopping for?
 No --
Whoa.
 -- Mustang --
Holy shit.   A dent --
Jesus, mom!                       Christ, Kale!
I'm sorry.   I thought you heard me...
What?   No, I --
What's going on?
Nothing, just watching the wind blow.
 Anything else?
No, see for yourself.
 That's okay, I just... wanted to say good night.
So you don't know what year the Mustang is?
 '65 or '66, couldn't tell.
Check this out. The feds think your missing girl might be related to three murders in Austin. All redheads.
Movement.
Better late than never.
Dude...
DUDE!!
 That's definitely new.
Oh, it's so warm, baby...
Cleansing breath...
Concentrate now. This is for the gold.
Jackass!
Dude, there's no way she heard that.
Dick, my deaf aunt in Omaha heard that.
 She's got great lung capacity.
 I think she saw me --
There's no way --
 Okay, maybe she did.
Seriously?
Her swims always that short?
 No, she usually takes her time --
Now where is she?
No.                                  No.
Don't, it could be her!
It's not gonna be her.
Then stop!    Just -- let 'em go away.
I have to.
What?!   What?! Speak.
It's her.
You're full of --
Shit shit!!    Oh my shit!
She totally saw us --
We are so busted. Don't answer it!
 Dude, she knows I'm here.
What took you so long? (eyeing Ronnie in b.g.) The house isn't that big.
Yeah, no, we were playing upstairs --
 Video games...?
 So... what brings you here.
Oh.   -- Locked out.
Do you need to call anyone?
Thanks, but I'd rather stay stranded if you don't mind.
May I?
Uh, sure, come on in --
That's Ronnie.
Nice to meet you. Video games, huh? (then suggestively to Kale) I like to play.
Excuse me...
It's a little messy.
A little?
Anything interesting out there?
Are you spying on the neighbors, Kale?
 Actually, he is.
See, he has this neighbor -- who I guess by definition would also be your neighbor -- who may, in point of fact, be a cold-blooded killer.
Is that so.
Exhibit A, Robert Giles.
Yeah, I've seen him.   So?
So you hear about that missing girl from Madison?
 What, you think he --
He drives a car like the one she was seen in.
Black Mustang.
60's era Mustang.
Gee, that really narrows it down.
They said it was dented.     His has a bashed-in fender.
 So this is why -- you're --
What?
Hey --
So that's the infamous black mustang, huh?
Yeah --
The one with no dent?
 What?
How'd he fix it so fast --
Because it was never there in the first place?
Sorry guys, no bashed-in fender, just a Longhorns bumper sticker.
 You serious?  She's right.
 They think it might be linked to some murders in Texas two years ago.
Austin, Texas. Texas Longhorns.
Okay, fine, stakeout.  Who's on my shift?
This is all the stuff I could find --
Do you know how long Giles has lived there?
About two or three years.
So he could've lived in Texas...  Hey, check this out.
"Murderer: Tell Tale Signs of a Serial Killer." Qualifies for free shipping if you pair it with "The Shrine of Jeffrey Dahmer."
The summary lists four main criteria. Our guy meets at least three. White male between the age of twenty-five and fifty. He doesn't have any pets, right?
Not that I've seen --
You said he lives alone --
What's the fourth?
 Sexual dysfunction.
 I'm hungry, let's order pizza.
 He's been gone awhile.
 Here.
How'd you get my phone?
I'm crafty like that.
What'd you do?
Every time he calls, that's what you'll hear.
What the hell?
Where's --
 Three to one he doesn't pick it up.
So that's why the grass is greener...
Only in disturbia...
So why the move?
What do you mean? The greener grass, the safer pastures...
No, seriously.
Well, I guess my mom thought it'd help keep dad on a shorter leash. City life... had its temptations... (beat; then matter of fact) But my mom pretty much cries just as much as she always did, and dad doesn't care -- more than ever.
What did they think, an extra bathroom and two-car garage would actually change things... somehow protect them and you from all that crap you can never escape?
Something like that.  So... what're your issues, Kale?
That's him.
Another car --
You seen her before?
No.
 Cute for a killer.
Who said chivalry's dead?
There's a club girl for you.
How do you know?
Bright green bracelet's "The Pyramids," purple's "Club 360," the big black stamp's from "Flavor."
 Missing girl was seen at a club. Didn't say which one though...  Your I.D. must be pretty good.
 I don't need one.
He's going in.
Denied...
 Oh no, he put on music...
Oh, c'mon, Giles, all she wants to do is dance.
What do you think they're listening to?
Could be radio. See if you can find the station.
 No... no...
Stop.
 Hmmm...
Now's the time to bust your move.
 Who's that?
 Ookay, just fill me in later.  A pleasure. (then; aside to Kale, mouths; re: Ashley) Duude!  Later.
 It's my mom.  Hi. No, I'm fine.  I'm at Barnes and Noble.    Okay, I'm leaving. No, I'll walk.
And she's down for the count.
Looks like this is as far as you go.
Looks like.
Y'know, I have to admit, you're different than I expected.
What were you expecting?
I thought you'd be more messed up.
Does that disappoint you? 'Cause I can be more messed up if you want me to.
No, you're fine.
"Fine?"
Yeah.
"Fine" like your first cousin "fine" or "fine" in kind of a Brad Pitt sorta way?
 Just come back in the house, you shouldn't drive --
He wants her to come back in --
I can't hear --
Let's get closer --
 I can't --
You really should stay.
I just don't think it's a good idea -- (still searching; more frustrated) Where the hell are they?
Here --
You're in no condition --
Give me my keys.
Sorry.
C'mon...
 Ashley, come on...
 That was intense.
Are you nuts?!
Mom?
Dammit.
Shit!
Dumbass dumbass --
Okay, so where is she --
Oh shit oh shit...
 Ronnie --
 Dude, Ashley is ho-ho-hotttt --
Giles totally busted me.
What do you mean, are you sure?
They were arguing --
Who?
Giles and the girl he brought home. They had an argument, he grabbed her --
And then what?
And then -- nothing.
Uh-huh.
Dude, something is going on over there. What if he killed her, too?
Then call your friends at the police department.
Wait --
What?
A door just slammed.
 That's right, Kale, and now I'm coming up to slash your guts out, you little bastard!
Asshole, I'm serious.
I'm not and I'm hanging up.
Just -- wait -- wait till I check the hall --
BOO!
Goddamn you!!
Kale, Kale, it's me!!
No, don't!
What's going on, who were you talking to?!
Ronnie -- just Ronnie.
I heard the door --
I'm sorry, the wind caught it --
Fine.   Good.     Okay --
Okay then, so... (catching her breath; then) You want anything from the grocery? I'm going in the morning.
Anything caffeinated.
 Whoa, whoa, settle down, slow down. Robert Giles, your neighbor --  Behind you?
I know, how did you --
 Think I startled him.
 Oh. Kale, I ran into Mr. Giles at --
Robert...
 ...At the grocery. I had a flat tire when I came out. We tried to change it, but --
Dad put those security bolts on --
And that adapter thingy that unscrews it ended up stripping it instead --
My fault.
No, it wasn't. You saved my life.  We had it towed to Frank's.
 Gee, really lucky you were there.
Just glad I could help.  Must be a little difficult when the man of the house is stuck in the house.
Oh... no, it's okay, we're managing.
I've always been curious about those things, do you mind?
Yeah, I do.
Oh c'mon, Kale.  I'm sorry.
No, no.   It's none of my business.
That's right.
Whoa, hey, dude... you seem like a straight hitter. You ask me, whoever they are deserved it.
 Okay... I don't think that's the case, and --
I think I'd like to hear his opinion.
And I think I opened my big mouth again. You're absolutely right. (then; heading for the door) I should go.
Wait, what about your coffee?
I popped my Spanish teacher.
In that case, cafe con leche, por favor?
 Shoot, milk's... still in the car.
I like your shirt, by the way.    I mean, the color.
Which one?
Oh, the... that dark orange.   Always reminds me of Texas.
Yeah?   You a Longhorns fan, too?
Sure, absolutely. Even though I've never stepped foot in Texas --
Me neither. Had a lot of friends who went there. I stayed in Minnesota till I moved here.
Huh.
So when you say you "popped" your teacher --
Just a black eye.
Phew, just making sure I wasn't living next to some psycho killer. Listen, I get it though. I had plenty of teachers I wanted to just... kill.
But no matter how hard it is to hold back, the high road's always the better choice.
Kale, could you grab the sugar?  Sugar?
 Why not.
Thanks, man.
Oh, hey, Kale...  Nice to finally meet you.
 Oooh. That's creepy.
I know, he's a total freak, right?
And very vague... did he genuinely mean it was nice meeting you or was he sending you a "sinister message?"
Are you messing with me?
Maybe a little. Did you even notice my hair?
So you think it's all a coincidence. We've got the car --
With the non dent dent --
The bumper sticker, the argument, the staring contest -- And now he's showing up in my kitchen --
Why, because he slashed your mom's tire?
Maybe.
 Her car hasn't moved.
It's called "the day after," Kale. Nobody moves after a night like that.
Well what if she's really "not moving?" What if she's tied in the dungeon with the other girl, starving to death --
 Then come up with a rescue plan and get back to me.
You're leaving?
Have to.    Party.
Whose?
Uh, mine?
How is that possible?
Excuse me?
Well, I mean... Sorry, I just didn't think you knew anybody --
I don't, I didn't --  I met this girl earlier, Minnie Tyco?
Oh my god, "Skinny Psycho?!" I sat next to that bitch in Spanish --
 I told her my parents were outta town --
And now the whole neighborhood's coming.
Look, I'm stuck here. So I figured I can either shut myself in and keep hating it or... try to make the most of it.
Hey, I get it. You don't have to explain.
Kale, you're welcome to come, but --
 Well, I appreciate the thought. Really.
 Glad to hear it.
It's funny, though.
 What?
I didn't peg you as a conformist.
Try to keep these in your drawers tonight, will ya?
 This is Ronnie, leave a message.
 Yeah, I'm calling about the Jeep Cherokee that was brought in with the flat and the stripped lug -- it's ready? Listen, did they have to replace the whole tire -- they patched it? Is there any way to tell if it was slashed or -- But a nail usually acts like its own plug for awhile, doesn't it? I mean it's a really slow leak, it can't flatten a tire in twenty minutes.  -- Yeah, I guess anything's possible.
Wait, what was that? You think I'm watching? Well, I'm not... Nope, I am minding my own business...
You think I'm buying that?
I'm not biting --
That's it.
Hey!
 Oh my God --
Back off or I'll throw it where you can't follow.
Take it easy, that's sixty gigs of my life.
Even better.
Okay -- okay --
What are you doing?
What are you doing?
I'm trying to enjoy my party. Wait, that's wrong. According to you, I'm trying to conform --
Coulda fooled me.
What does that mean?
Forget --
No, I'm not gonna forget it.
You wanna blend in with that crowd, fine, then stop looking up and trying to get a rise outta me.
 So you were watching me. Question is for how long? Just tonight?    Or maybe a week? Two weeks? Since I moved in?
And the whole "my-neighbor's-the- killer" thing. Great cover --
It's not a cover --
So what is it, Kale?   Huh?   What else have you seen?
What else have I seen?
Yeah.   What else?
Okay -- I've seen how you always pull your kleenex from the box in groups of three. Not two, not four, always three. I've seen you're the only one in the world who eats pizza- flavored Pringles. And you never stuff the chips in, you savor each one by dividing it into four precise bites. I didn't know that was even possible. You're also the first girl I've ever seen who spends more time on her roof than in her own house. And what do you do out there? You don't talk on the phone, you don't paint your nails, you read books. Now one would think with the whole numbers thing you've got going on that you'd put them on your shelf alphabetically, but you don't. Your system's much more perfect. The ones you like go on the bottom, the ones you love go in the middle, and the ones you need, the ones you keep going back to... well they go straight to the top next to the dream encyclopedia. You know what all this tells me? You know how things should be. The world according to Ashley. And guess what? It's a very entertaining and beautiful thing. Even when it takes a hit. When you end up in a place like this... when your parents dump their baggage on you, or just... when it seems like those curveballs are never gonna stop -- It sucks, but just so you know -- I get it. 
But I've also seen those designer window shades of yours, and guess what? They always go up the next day -- no matter what. And even if no one else has, I've noticed that. And I ain't sorry. The only thing I'll even consider apologizing for is... not dropping the binoculars and telling you this a lot sooner.
That was either the creepiest... or the sweetest thing I've ever heard.
Hey.
Hey... where have you been?
If would have gone to the flower shop, but --
I know.
So how much longer?
Oh, two months, twelve days, nineteen hours give or take.
You know the other night... when you said you thought I'd be more messed up...
...For a guy who killed his teacher.
I didn't kill my --
Shhh.  I know. -- I know.
Oh my God, what time is it?
Three-thirty.
I've gotta go.
You better see this.
Look, quick --
What?
 That's normal.
 Her car... still hasn't moved...
So what do you wanna do?
 You want me to do what?
Phase one, steal his code from his opener.
There's more than one phase?
There's only two. Now look, his remote's in the glove compartment of his Toyota. All you have to do is pop it open and read me the switch settings. "On" or "off."
For the later purpose of doing what? Breaking in to his house?
No, not breaking in. We're just talking about having access to his garage so we can go in on our own time - when he's not there - to just... to get a closer look at the car, the bag --
 All this sounds reasonable to you?
I don't know about that, but --
 This is good up to thirteen digits --
 How long have you been planning this?
Look, if we're gonna do this, it's gotta be now. He takes twenty-one minutes average to mow his front yard... you'll be hearing him the whole time...
I'll do it.
No. (beat; then grabbing the remote) It isn't safe.  Let's do it.
 Yo, you set?
 I can't believe I'm doing this.
Let me conference Ashley in. (punches buttons; then) Ashley, you there?
Ten-four.
Nice.
Okay, Ron -- Green light.
You're all good.
Oww, shit --
You okay --
What do you think?
Dude, glove compartment, other side.
Excuse me if I'm used to my mom's import. Can I just try this one while I'm here?
Shit.
 Shit.
They're all gonna be locked --
Well, while you're there, will you just check?
I'm in.
You see the package?
Oh my God --
What's wrong?
There's like a month-old order of Nachos Bell Grande under the seat.  Okay, I found it.
Whenever you're ready.
Looks like "on, on, on, off, off, on..." No wait, that one was "off."
Just start over.
"On, on, on, off, off, off, on -- "
No, no --
I'll get it right this time.
Ronnie, he's coming around.
Dude, stop dicking with me, I still hear his --
 Ronnie, I am not dicking with you. The neighbor is also mowing her lawn and he's going to see you --
 Kale, what do I do?! Where --
GET IN THE CAR!!
Put the remote back --
I did, I did --
Easy on the door.
Don't panic, he's coming straight for you --
What?!   Kale, you've gotta get me --
Back seat, NOW!
Ashley --
I'm on it.
 Kale, tell my mom --
Shut up, stay down and don't move.
Ronnie, you're good --
Ronnie?
Ronnie, was that the whole code? Ronnie?
 Okay, Ashley, you're good, come on...
Was that the whole code?
 Excuse me?
 The code, did you get it?
You've gotta be kidding.
 No way.
 Great, Kale. She lives.
What are you doing?
Getting her license number --
Why?
Okay, case closed.
Try telling Inspector Clouseau that. Now he thinks he needs her license number.
Why, Kale?   It's over.
"Yeah, he seemed like such a normal guy. Sure he kept to himself, but he was always nice to me." That's what they all say. That's what all the neighbors always say -- after the fact. Only after they've caught the guy, after he's killed thirty people --
Okay, I think we all just need to take a breath.
 Fine, but what about the bumper sticker, there's still a girl missing, just... what's in the bag?  Can anyone tell me that?
Kale, why are you so --
 Ronnie, you've seen this satellite website, right? You can find any location on earth and take a picture --
Yeah, for a small fee --
Kale, what are you doing?
Trying to get to the bottom of this.
 Kale, right now, it doesn't look that way.
What's it look like?
Like you're determined to turn Giles in to who you think he is.
Not who I think.
 I just didn't realize -- you were this --
What, crazy?     Maybe I am.   But maybe I'm right.
It's not about that, it's about --  -- What I see. What Ronnie and I are seeing right now. I see a guy who looks like he hasn't slept in days. (peers at dad's book cover posters) I'm seeing you sitting at your dad's desk --
-- Because you lost him before maybe... you ever really knew him. Before the world according to Kale took a hit from that same stuff you were telling me about, remember? All those curveballs? But it's like -- it's like you're still trying to dodge them by forcing pieces together that are never gonna fit... by getting all wrapped up in...  This.  Obsessing's not gonna "protect you," Kale. It's not gonna make the hurt go away.
Are you two gonna help me or not?
I want to.
 Then start looking through these --
That's not what I meant.
 Well, this is all I need, so -- I guess I'll see you later.
So what's your deal? You hanging out or not?
I would, dude, but -- I've gotta pull it together and -- change my underwear. Catch you later?
Sure.
Get off me, man.
Dude -- my cell phone's -- still in his car.
Kale, did you hear me?
 Ronnie, I know you think I'm losing my mind, but... listen, I'll help you get it, I just need you to do one thing.
 Phase two. I knew it.
 You read?
 Yeah, you got a signal?
Got video, no audio.
Yeah, mic's on the fritz.    How am I looking?
Light on, far end.
I guess it's now or never.    Moving out.
 No movement.
First hurdle --
Twenty feet.     Ten feet --
Garage --
Bingo.
I'm not seeing it --
Stay calm, it's there.
I've got it.
You're still clear, check the bag.
Hang on --
I'm setting the camera on the trunk.
Try to get the plate number of the Mustang and check for dents --
I'm checking the bag first.
It does look like blood -- and hair --
The camera's sliding --
That was close.
Oh shit --
Ronnie?
 -- make it -- interference -- somebody's here --
Ronnie?!
He's in the house --  Ronnie?
What the hell --
RONNIE!    Shit --
Ronnie?!
Ronnie, can you hear me?! Giles, open the door!!
Hey!
Freeze.    Hands above your head, now!!
Please, my friend's been kidnapped, he's in this house -- he's inside, I think the owner's trying to kill him --
Stay right there.
I've got it --
 Dispatch, 13A74, we're 10-26 with the kid, he's claiming a 10-31 at... (eying numbers above Giles' door) 4710 Fairway Court. House behind his residence, request 10-78.
 13A74, ten-four, units already in the area, will advise --
It's open.
It was already open.
Uh, yes, can I help you, officer?
Sorry to wake you, sir, we have a young man here claiming a friend of his is in your house. Would you know anything about that?
 No, I certainly wouldn't.
You're a lying son of a bitch!
Take it easy --
He's in there, goddammit!   He's inside! He's lying!
Sir, calm down --
Okay, but he's lying -- he has my friend, and he kidnapped that girl last week, he killed maybe three others, all redheads, they could be in a bag -- a big blue plastic bag -- in his garage -- my friend knew this --  That's why he's covering -- he didn't just wake up five minutes ago --
 Can you --
Sir, do you mind if we take a look inside?
Absolutely, be my guest.
 I hit it the other night. Thought I'd save a few steps and get it off the road myself. I was gonna bury it sooner, but it's been a helluva week --
So why'd you have to have the car fixed in record time, huh? Because it was covered in her blood --
 Because it's a classic, I got it out of storage for the auto show, I needed it in pristine condition.
It's one of the biggest in the world.  The auto show.
I think we're done here.   Sorry for the intrusion, sir.
Please, I understand.
 So where's my friend, then? Can anyone tell me that? Does anyone believe me?!
Kale, come on --
 I'm sorry, Kale.
I really am. You know, one thing I always told myself was that no matter what, I would always know what was going on with my kid --
Mom --
Let me finish -- because I have to tell you something...  I feel like I let you down. I was too caught up in my own grief to see straight. I thought time would heal this and taking a second job was... the answer to keeping a roof over our heads --
It was --
 That's just wood. Do you hear me? We're still not through this -- obviously -- it's gonna take more time -- maybe a lot more time -- and that's just gotta be okay, because I know -- it'll get better.  I want us to be us again. I want us to be honest with each other like we used to be. Is that possible?
Yeah. I just -- didn't think you'd believe me --
Listen to me. I am always on your side. No matter what. It may not look like it sometimes, but it's the truth. And we'll get through this. Okay?
OH MY GOD --
Shit --
Ronnie --
BOO!
Dude, don't kill me, don't kill me -- I can explain --
How -- How long have you been here?
You should have seen your face --  I got out his front door. I got lucky. I heard you yelling, but dude, cops were everywhere --
Still, you could have --
What, popped out and said, "oh yeah, officers, my friend's right, I was just in that house, I'd gone to get my cell phone out of the guy's car I broke into earlier..." Are you kidding me?
 I get it.
Dude, I am sorry. Can we just... hug it out?
Why didn't Giles tell the cops someone broke in? I mean, he did see you, right?
You know, let's be positive for a change. I thought he did, but maybe he didn't. Or maybe he's a nice guy afterall, and he didn't wanna make a big deal of it, you know? I mean, he's a guy, he was a kid once...
What if he wasn't always a guy?
But I do have to ask... what was in the bag?
 Dead deer.
Naturally...  Hey, you want more evidence, detective?
I was watching, remember?
No, no, this is comedy, it deserves big screen treatment.
Hey, I caught that.
So that's when the garage door started closing.
Yeah, he must have heard me. He came through the inside door --  This is where I ducked low and started...
...hauling aaaass...
That's great.
Dropped it.
Yeah, I lost signal --
But I never leave evidence behind.
And that's about when you started yelling bloody murder and the shit hit the fan.
 I'm starving. All that running around...
 I'm gonna burn this.
You're not fooling me, Giles...
 Ronnie, get your ass up here!
Ronnie?!
Ronnie -- MOM!!
 You finally wanna be an orphan?
If you don't stop fighting me, I will gut her like a fish.
So where's the tape?
You're right, I'll find it later.
It's funny, I hear a lot of authors say their first books were easy, it's the second one that's really hard. Wonder if your dad thought that.  See with me, it's the opposite. The very first one was...  ...Very difficult... she was very beautiful... fragile... a lot of promise... the others in Texas were flings, low class... Patty Walsh had potential, but so did Amy. You saw her, right? When you were watching me? You should feel good, Kale, you guys saved her life. I was headed in to kill her when your girlfriend showed up. So, you're a hero, Kale. Savor the moment.  You have Microsoft Word? (off Kale's questioning look; re: computer) Turn it on.
I can type, you know.
"Dear Ashley... I killed Ronnie and my mom because...  What's wrong? Hey, you're the one who couldn't leave me alone. Truthfully, I'm sick of covering my tracks. You think I like spending my spare time looking over my shoulder for people like you? Word of advice, if you ever need to hurt someone, think everything through. Because you do get a taste for it, don't you? 
But damned if people aren't just waiting to stand in your way... cops, reporters, determined relatives, nosy fucking neighbors... next thing you know, you're on tilt, you can't think straight, you're clocking your teacher in front of the whole class, me... I'm hitting a damned deer... Man, that was some shitty luck.  Anyway, it's pretty clear how we've gotta clean this up. The irony is, you've done all the hard stuff. Whaddaya think: "Troubled youth finally snapped." Maybe because he was jealous of his girlfriend, or maybe he just couldn't deal with the guilt from not saving daddy.  Hey, you Googled me.
KALE --
It's dead.
Let me try --
Where's your mom --
 Living room -- tied up -- he got Ronnie -- in the kitchen --  GODDAMN YOU!!
 Okay, just -- I'll get your mom, you figure out a way to call the cops --
No, I've gotta get her --
Kale, you've gotta get outside, get over the boundary -- do you hear me?
 Okay, but -- just follow my lead -- we're gonna need stuff --
Once I have his attention, you go get her.
 We're out here, asshole!
Kale!
NO!   You son of a --
Ashley!   Are you okay?
I wanna kill him --
Stick to the plan --
That was a warning!
Hi, Mrs. Brecht, I'm Ashley --  It's gonna hurt.
 Where's Kale?
Where's my mom?
She went upstairs for you -- where's Giles?
I don't know -- the cops should be here any sec --
What's wrong?
No flashing lights -- stay here --
Kale, what's going on now?
Parker, where's the cavalry?!
I told 'em don't bother, you were my responsibility --
Parker, you need to get them here right now -- Giles is --
Evening.
PARKER LOOK OUT, HE'S THE --
...the body of Partricia Walsh, missing since last week, has been recovered along with the remains of at least three other women. Authorities say Giles meticulously maintained his yard, mowing the lawn routinely in order to avoid the formation of sinkholes which could have exposed his terrible secret...
 He was my best friend. We always talked about what guys talk about... sports, women... food... We were talking about the freakin' fish -- this huge, amazing black bass we'd just caught -- and how we'd be eating it for a week... the next thing I know -- I can't hold on... and he's letting go... I was so pissed at 
him, I was so -- he's the one who left, he's the one who gave up, you know? -- But that's b.s. See, the truth is, my dad -- He saved me.
You ready?
Movement.
Why's your mom doing this again?
She's whacked. Plain and simple. I think she thought it'd be some sick challenge or something -- hey, commission's the same I guess...
No way.   She can't be serious.
Hey, if anyone can spin a psycho house into the opportunity of a lifetime, I'd bet on your mom any day of the week.
 Fine, but we still have to seriously question the yayhoos buying the place.
Whaddaya think, another stakeout?
 Screw that. My mom has another half hour over there at least.
 I'm not even here.
