Hello there, Mr. Neff.
Working pretty late aren't you, Mr. Neff?
 Late enough.
You look kind of all in at that.
I'm fine. Let's ride.
How's the insurance business, Mr. Neff?
Okay.
They wouldn't ever sell me any. They say I've got something loose in my heart. I say it's rheumatism.
 Uh-huh.
 Twelve.
Office memorandum, Walter Neff to Barton Keyes, Claims Manager. Los Angeles, July 16th, 1938. Dear Keyes: I suppose you'll call this a confession when you hear it. I don't like the word confession. I just want to set you right about one thing you couldn't see, because it was smack up against your nose. You think you're such a hot potato as a claims manager, such a wolf on a phoney claim. Well, maybe you are, Keyes, but let's take a look at this Dietrichson claim, Accident and Double Indemnity. You were pretty good in there for a while, all right. You said it wasn't an accident. Check. You said it wasn't suicide. Check. You said it was murder. Check and double check. You thought you had it cold, all wrapped up in tissue paper, with pink ribbons around it. It was perfect, except that it wasn't, because you made a mistake, just one tiny little mistake. When it came to picking the killer, you picked the wrong guy, if you know what I mean. Want to know who killed Dietrichson? Hold tight to that cheap cigar of yours, Keyes. I killed Dietrichson. Me, Walter Neff, insurance agent, 35 years old, unmarried, no visible scars -- (He glances down at his wounded shoulder) Until a little while ago, that is. Yes, I killed him. I killed him for money -- and a woman -- and I didn't get the money and I didn't get the woman. Pretty, isn't it?
 It began last May. About the end of May, it was. I had to run out to Glendale to deliver a policy on some dairy trucks. On the way back I remembered this auto renewal on Los Feliz. So I decided to run over there. It was one of those Calif. Spanish houses everyone was nuts about 10 or 15 years ago. This one must have cost somebody about 30,000 bucks -- that is, if he ever finished paying for it.
It was mid-afternoon, and it's funny, I can still remember the smell of honeysuckle all along that block. I felt like a million. There was no way in all this world I could have known that murder sometimes can smell like honeysuckle...
Mr. Dietrichson in?
Who wants to see him?
The name is Neff. Walter Neff.
If you're selling something --
Look, it's Mr. Dietrichson I'd like to talk to, and it's not magazine subscriptions.
Listen, Mr. Dietrichson's not in.
How soon do you expect him?
He'll be home when he gets here, if that's any help to you.
What is it, Nettie? Who is it?
It's for Mr. Dietrichson.
 I'm Mrs. Dietrichson. What is it?
How do you do, Mrs. Dietrichson. I'm Walter Neff, Pacific All-Risk.
Pacific all-what?
Pacific All-Risk Insurance Company. It's about some renewals on the automobiles, Mrs. Dietrichson. I've been trying to contact your husband for the past two weeks. He's never at his office.
Is there anything I can do?
The insurance ran out on the fifteenth. I'd hate to think of your getting a smashed fender or something while you're not fully covered.
 Perhaps I know what you mean, Mr. Neff. I've just been taking a sun bath.
No pigeons around, I hope... About those policies, Mrs. Dietrichson -- I hate to take up your time --
That's all right. If you can wait till I put something on, I'll be right down. Nettie, show Mr. Neff into the living room.
Where would the living room be?
In there, but they keep the liquor locked up.
That's okay. I always carry my own keys.
The living room was still stuffy from last night's cigars. The windows were closed and the sunshine coming in through the Venetian blinds showed up the dust in the air. The furniture was kind of corny and old-fashioned, but it had a comfortable look, as if people really sat in it. On the piano, in couple of fancy frames, were Mr. Dietrichson and Lola, his daughter by his first wife They had a bowl of those little red goldfish on the table behind the davenport, but, to tell you the truth, Keyes, I wasn't a whole lot interested in goldfish right then, nor in auto renewals, nor in Mr. Dietrichson and his daughter Lola. I was thinking about that dame upstairs, and the way she had looked at me, and I wanted to see her again, close, without that silly staircase between us.
I wasn't long, was I?
Not at all, Mrs. Dietrichson.
I hope I've got my face on straight.
It's perfect for my money.
 Won't you sit down, Mr. -- Neff is the name, isn't it?
With two f's, like in Philadelphia. If you know the story.
What story?
The Philadelphia story. What are we talking about?
 About the insurance. My husband never tells me anything.
It's on your two cars, the La Salle and the Plymouth.
We've been handling this insurance for three years for Mr. Dietrichson... (His eyes have caught the anklet) That's a honey of an anklet you're wearing, Mrs. Dietrichson.
We'd hate to see the policies lapse. Of course, we give him thirty days. That's all we're allowed to give.
I guess he's been too busy down at Long Beach in the oil fields.
Could I catch him home some evening for a few minutes?
I suppose so. But he's never home much before eight.
That would be fine with me.
You're not connected with the Automobile Club, are you?
No, the All-Risk, Mrs. Dietrichson. Why?
Somebody from the Automobile Club has been trying to get him. Do they have a better rate?
If your husband's a member.
No, he isn't.
Well, he'd have to join the club and pay a membership fee to start with. The Automobile Club is fine. I never knock the other fellow's merchandise, Mrs. Dietrichson, but I can do just as well for you. I have a very attractive policy here. It wouldn't take me two minutes to put it in front of your husband.
For instance, we're writing a new kind of fifty percent retention feature in the collision coverage.
You're a smart insurance man, aren't you, Mr. Neff?
I've had eleven years of it.
Doing pretty well?
It's a living.
You handle just automobile insurance, or all kinds?
All kinds. Fire, earthquake, theft, public liability, group insurance, industrial stuff and so on right down the line.
Accident insurance?
Accident insurance? Sure, Mrs. Dietrichson.
I wish you'd tell me what's engraved on that anklet.
Just my name.
As for instance?
Phyllis.
Phyllis. I think I like that.
But you're not sure?
I'd have to drive it around the block a couple of times.
 Mr. Neff, why don't you drop by tomorrow evening about eight-thirty. He'll be in then.
Who?
My husband. You were anxious to talk to him weren't you?
Sure, only I'm getting over it a little. If you know what I mean.
There's a speed limit in this state, Mr. Neff. Forty-five miles an hour.
How fast was I going, officer?
I'd say about ninety.
Suppose you get down off your motorcycle and give me a ticket.
Suppose I let you off with a warning this time.
Suppose it doesn't take.
Suppose I have to whack you over the knuckles.
Suppose I bust out crying and put my head on your shoulder.
Suppose you try putting it on my husband's shoulder.
That tears it.
Eight-thirty tomorrow evening then, Mrs. Dietrichson.
That's what I suggested.
Will you be here, too?
I guess so. I usually am.
Same chair, same perfume, same anklet?
 I wonder if I know what you mean.
I wonder if you wonder.
 She liked me. I could feel that. The way you feel when the cards are...
falling right for you, with a nice little pile of blue and yellow chips in the middle of the table. Only what I didn't know then was that I wasn't playing her. She was playing me -- with a deck of marked cards -- and the stakes weren't any blue and yellow chips. They were dynamite. I went back to the office that afternoon to see if I had any mail. It was the same afternoon you had that Sam Gorlopis on the carpet, that truck driver from Inglewood, remember, Keyes?
Oh, Mr. Neff, Mr. Keyes wants to see you. He's been yelling for you all afternoon.
Is he sore, or just frothing at the mouth a little? Here, park these for me, sweetheart.
Wise up, Gorlopis. You're not kidding anybody with that line of bull. You're in a jam and you know it.
Sez you. All I want is my money.
Sez you. All you're gonna get is the cops.
Come in, Walter. This is Sam Gorlopis from Inglewood.
Sure, I know Mr. Gorlopis. Wrote a policy on his truck. How are you, Mr. Gorlopis?
I ain't so good. My truck burned down.
Yeah, he just planted his big foot on the starter and the whole thing blazed up in his face.
Yes, sir.
And didn't even singe his eyebrows.
No sir. Look, mister. I got twenty- six hundred bucks tied up in that truck. I'm insured with this company and I want my money.
You got a wife, Gorlopis?
Sure I got a wife.
You got kids?
Two kids.
What you got for dinner tonight?
We got meat loaf.
How do you make your meat loaf, Gorlopis?
Veal and pork and bread and garlic. Greek style.
How much garlic?
Lotsa garlic, Mr. Keyes.
Okay, Gorlopis. Now listen here. Let's say you just came up here to tell me how to make meat loaf. That's all, understand? Because if you came up here to claim on that truck, I'd have to turn you over to the law, Gorlopis, and they'd put you in jail. No wife. No kids --
What for?
 And no meat loaf, Gorlopis!
I didn't do nothin'.
No? Look, Gorlopis. Every month hundreds of claims come to this desk. Some of them are phonies, and I know which ones. How do I know, Gorlopis? (He speaks as if to a child) Because my little man tells me.
What little man?
The little man in here.
Every time one of those phonies comes along he ties knots in my stomach. And yours was one of them, Gorlopis. That's how I knew your claim was crooked. So what did I do? I sent a tow car out to your garage this afternoon and they jacked up that burned-out truck of yours. And what did they find, Gorlopis? They found what was left of a pile of shavings.
What shavings?
The ones you soaked with kerosene and dropped a match on.
Look, Mr. Keyes, I'm just a poor guy. Maybe I made a mistake.
That's one way of putting it.
I ain't feelin' so good, Mr. Keyes.
Sign this and you'll feel fine.
Right there. It's a waiver on your claim.
Now you're an honest man again.
But I ain't got no more truck.
Goodbye, Gorlopis.
 Goodbye, Mr. Keyes.
Twenty-six hundred bucks. That's a lot of dough where I live.
What's the matter, Gorlopis? Don't you know how to open the door? Just put your hand on the knob, turn it to the right, pull it toward you --
 Like this, Mr. Keyes?
That's the boy. Now the same thing from the outside.
 Thank you, Mr. Keyes.
What kind of an outfit is this anyway? Are we an insurance company, or a bunch of dimwitted amateurs, writing a policy on a mugg like that?
Wait a minute, Keyes. I don't rate this beef. I clipped a note to that Gorlopis application to have him thoroughly investigated before we accepted the risk.
I know you did, Walter. I'm not beefing at you. It's the company. The way they do things. The way they don't do things. The way they'll write anything just to get it down on the sales sheet. And I'm the guy that has to sit here up to my neck in phony claims so they won't throw more money out of the window than they take in at the door.
 Okay, turn the record over and let's hear the other side.
I get darn sick of picking up after a gang of fast-talking salesmen dumb enough to sell life insurance to a guy that sleeps in the same bed with four rattlesnakes. I've had twenty- six years of that, Walter, and I --
And you loved every minute of it, Keyes. You love it, only you worry about it too much, you and your little man. You're so darn conscientious you're driving yourself crazy. You wouldn't even say today is Tuesday without you looked at the calendar, and then you would check if it was this year's or last year's calendar, and then you would find out what company printed the calendar, then find out if their calendar checks with the World Almanac's calendar.
That's enough from you, Walter. Get out of here before I throw my desk at you.
I love you, too.
 I really did, too, you old crab, always yelling your fat head off, always sore at everyone. But behind the cigar ashes on your vest I kind of knew you had a heart as big as a house... Back in my office there was a phone message from Mrs. Dietrichson about the renewals. She didn't want me to come tomorrow evening. She wanted me to come Thursday afternoon at three-thirty instead. I had a lot of stuff lined up for that Thursday afternoon, including a trip down to Santa Monica to see a couple of live prospects about some group insurance. But I kept thinking about Phyllis Dietrichson and the way that anklet of hers cut into her leg.
Hello, Mr. Neff.
Aren't you coming in?
I'm considering it.
I hope you didn't mind my changing the appointment. Last night wasn't so convenient.
That's okay. I was working on my stamp collection.
I was just fixing some iced tea. Would you like a glass?
Unless you have a bottle of beer that's not working.
There might be some. I never know what's in the ice box.  Nettie!...
About those renewals, Mr. Neff. I talked to my husband about it.
You did?
Yes. He'll renew with you he told me. In fact, I thought he'd be here this afternoon.
But he's not?
No.
That's terrible.
 Nettie!... Nettie!... Oh, I forgot, it's the maid's day off.
Don't bother, Mrs. Dietrichson. I'd like some iced tea very much.
Lemon? Sugar?
Fix it your way.
Seeing it's the maid's day off maybe there's something I can do for you.
Like running the vacuum cleaner.
Fresh.
I used to peddle vacuum cleaners. Not much money but you learn a lot about life.
I didn't think you'd learned it from a correspondence course.
Where did you pick up this tea drinking? You're not English, are you?
No. Californian. Born right here in Los Angeles.
They say native Californians all come from Iowa.
I wanted to ask you something, Mr. Neff.
Make it Walter.
Walter.
Right.
Tell me, Walter, on this insurance -- how much commission do you make?
Twenty percent. Why?
I thought maybe I could throw a little more business your way.
I can always use it.
I was thinking about my husband. I worry a lot about him, down in those oil fields. It's very dangerous.
Not for an executive, is it?
He doesn't just sit behind a desk. He's right down there with the drilling crews. It's got me worried sick.
You mean a crown block might fall on him some rainy night?
Please don't talk like that.
But that's the idea.
The other day a casing line snapped and caught the foreman. He's in the hospital with a broken back.
Bad.
It's got me jittery just thinking about it. Suppose something like that happened to my husband?
It could.
Don't you think he ought to have accident insurance?
Uh huh.
What kind of insurance could he have?
Enough to cover doctors' and hospital bills. Say a hundred and twenty-five a week cash benefit. And he'd rate around fifty thousand capital sum.
Capital sum? What's that?
That's if he got killed. Maybe I shouldn't have said that.
I suppose you have to think of everything in your business.
Mr. Dietrichson would understand. I'm sure I could sell him on the idea of some accident protection. Why don't I talk to him about it.
You could try. But he's pretty tough going.
They're all tough at first.
He's got a lot on his mind. He doesn't want to listen to anything except maybe a baseball game on the radio. Sometimes we sit all evening without saying a word to each other.
Sounds pretty dull.
So I just sit and knit.
Is that what you married him for?
Maybe I like the way his thumbs hold up the wool.
Anytime his thumbs get tired --
I want to ask you something, Mr. Neff. Could I get an accident policy for him -- without bothering him at all?
How's that again.
That would make it easier for you, too. You wouldn't even have to talk to him. I have a little allowance of my own. I could pay for it and he needn't know anything about it.
Wait a minute. Why shouldn't he know?
Because I know he doesn't want accident insurance. He's superstitious about it.
A lot of people are. Funny, isn't it?
If there was a way to get it like that, all the worry would be over. You see what I mean, Walter?
Sure. I've got good eyesight. You want him to have the policy without him knowing it. And that means without the insurance company knowing that he doesn't know. That's the set-up, isn't it?
Is there anything wrong with it?
I think it's lovely. And then, some dark wet night, if that crown block fell on him --
What crown block?
Only sometimes they have to have a little help. They can't quite make it on their own.
I don't know what you're talking about.
Of course, it doesn't have to be a crown block. It can be a car backing over him, or he can fall out of an upstairs window. Any little thing like that, as long as it's a morgue job.
Are you crazy?
Not that crazy. Goodbye, Mrs. Dietrichson.
What's the matter?
Look, baby, you can't get away with it.
Get away with what?
You want to knock him off, don't you, baby.
That's a horrible thing to say!
Who'd you think I was, anyway? A guy that walks into a good-looking dame's front parlor and says "Good afternoon, I sell accident insurance on husbands. You got one that's been around too long? Somebody you'd like to turn into a little hard cash? Just give me a smile and I'll help you collect." Boy, what a dope I must look to you!
I think you're rotten.
I think you're swell. So long as I'm not your husband.
Get out of here.
You bet I will. You bet I'll get out of here, baby. But quick.
 So I let her have it, straight between the eyes. She didn't fool me for a minute, not this time. I knew I had hold of a redhot poker and the time to drop it was before it burned my hand off. I stopped at a drive-in for a bottle of beer, the one I had wanted all along, only I wanted it worse now, to get rid of the sour taste of her iced tea, and everything that went with it. I didn't want to go back to the office, so I dropped by a bowling alley at Third and Western and rolled a few lines to get my mind thinking about something else for a while.
 I didn't feel like eating dinner when I left, and I didn't feel like a show, so I drove home, put the car away and went up to my apartment.
 It had begun to rain outside and I watched it get dark and didn't even turn on the light. That didn't help me either. I was all twisted up inside, and I was still holding on to that red-hot poker. And right then it came over me that I hadn't walked out on anything at all, that the hook was too strong, that this wasn't the end between her and me. It was only the beginning.
 So at eight o'clock the bell would ring and I would know who it was without even having to think, as if it was the most natural thing in the world.
Hello.
You forgot your hat this afternoon.
Did I?
Don't you want me to bring it in?
Sure. Put it on the chair.
How did you know where I live?
It's in the phone book.
It's raining.
So it is. Peel off your coat and sit down.
Your husband out?
Long Beach. They're spudding in a new well. He phoned he'd be late. About nine-thirty.
It's about time you said you're glad to see me.
I knew you wouldn't leave it like that.
Like what?
Like it was this afternoon.
I must have said something that gave you a terribly wrong impression. You must surely see that. You must never think anything like that about me, Walter.
Okay.
It's not okay. Not if you don't believe me.
What do you want me to do?
I want you to be nice to me. Like the first time you came to the house.
It can't be like the first time. Something has happened.
I know it has. It's happened to us.
That's what I mean.
What's the matter now?
I feel as if he was watching me. Not that he cares about me. Not any more. But he keeps me on a leash. So tight I can't breathe. I'm scared.
What of? He's in Long Beach, isn't he?
I oughtn't to have come.
Maybe you oughtn't.
You want me to go?
If you want to.
Right now?
Sure. Right now.
How were you going to do it?
Do what?
Kill him.
Walter, for the last time --
I'm crazy about you, baby.
I'm crazy about you, Walter.
That perfume on your hair. What's the name of it?
Something French. I bought it down at Ensenada.
We ought to have some of that pink wine to go with it. The kind that bubbles. But all I have is bourbon.
Bourbon is fine, Walter.
Soda?
Plain water, please.
Get a couple of glasses, will you.
You know, about six months ago a guy slipped on the soap in his bathtub and knocked himself cold and drowned. Only he had accident insurance. So they had an autopsy and she didn't get away with it.
Who didn't?
His wife.
And there was another case where a guy was found shot and his wife said he was cleaning a gun and his stomach got in the way. All she collected was a three-to-ten stretch in Tehachapi.
Perhaps it was worth it to her.
See if you can carry this as far as the living room.
It's nice here, Walter. Who takes care of it for you?
A colored woman comes in twice a week.
You get your own breakfast?
Once in a while I squeeze a grapefruit. The rest I get at the corner drugstore.
It sounds wonderful. Just strangers beside you. You don't know them. You don't hate them. You don't have to sit across the table and smile at him and that daughter of his every morning of your life.
What daughter? Oh, that little girl on the piano.
Yes. Lola. She lives with us. He thinks a lot more of her than he does of me.
Ever think of a divorce?
He wouldn't give me a divorce.
I suppose because it would cost him money.
He hasn't got any money. Not since he went into the oil business.
But he had when you married him?
Yes, he had. And I wanted a home. Why not? But that wasn't the only reason. I was his wife's nurse. She was sick for a long time. When she died, he was all broken up. I pitied him so.
And now you hate him.
Yes, Walter. He's so mean to me. Every-time I buy a dress or a pair of shoes he yells his head off. He won't let me go anywhere. He keeps me shut up. He's always been mean to me. Even his life insurance all goes to that daughter of his. That Lola.
Nothing for you at all, huh?
No. And nothing is just what I'm worth to him.
So you lie awake in the dark and listen to him snore and get ideas.
Walter, I don't want to kill him. I never did. Not even when he gets drunk and slaps my face.
Only sometimes you wish he was dead.
Perhaps I do.
And you wish it was an accident, and you had that policy. For fifty thousand dollars. Is that it?
Perhaps that too.
The other night we drove home from a party. He was drunk again. When we got into the garage he just sat there with his head on the steering wheel and the motor still running. And I thought what it would be like if I didn't switch it off, just closed the garage door and left him there.
I'll tell you what it would be like, if you had that accident policy, and tried to pull a monoxide job. We have a guy in our office named Keyes. For him a set-up like that would be just like a slice of rare roast beef. In three minutes he'd know it wasn't an accident. In ten minutes you'd be sitting under the hot lights. In half an hour you'd be signing your name to a confession.
But Walter, I didn't do it. I'm not going to do it.
Not if there's an insurance company in the picture, baby. So long as you're honest they'll pay you with a smile, but you just try to pull something like that and you'll find out. They know more tricks than a carload of monkeys. And if there's a death mixed up in it, you haven't got a prayer. They'll hang you as sure as ten dimes will buy a dollar, baby.
Just stop thinking about it, will you.
So we just sat there, and she kept on crying softly, like the rain on the window, and we didn't say anything. Maybe she had stopped thinking about it, but I hadn't. I couldn't. Because it all tied up with something I had been thinking about for years, since long before I ever ran into Phyllis Dietrichson. Because, in this business you can't sleep for trying to figure out the tricks they could pull on you. You're like the guy behind the roulette wheel, watching the customers to make sure they don't crook the house. And then one night, you get to thinking how you could crook the house yourself. And do it smart. Because you've got that wheel right under your hands. And you know every notch in it by heart. And you figure all you need is a plant out in front, a shill to put down the bet. And suddenly the doorbell rings and the whole set-up is right there in the room with you... Look, Keyes, I'm not trying to whitewash myself. I fought it, only maybe I didn't fight it hard enough. The stakes were fifty thousand dollars, but they were the life of a man, too, a man who'd never done me any dirt. Except he was married to a woman he didn't care anything about, and I did...
I've got to go now, Walter.
Will you call me, Walter?
Walter!
I hate him. I loathe going back to him. You believe me, don't you, Walter?
Sure I believe you.
I can't stand it anymore. What if they did hang me?
You're not going to hang, baby.
It's better than going on this way.
-- you're not going to hang, baby. Not ever. Because you're going to do it the smart way. Because I'm going to help you.
You!
Me.
Do you know what you're saying?
Sure I know what I'm saying.
We're going to do it together. We're going to do it right. And I'm the guy that knows how.
Walter, you're hurting me.
There isn't going to be any slip up. Nothing sloppy. Nothing weak. It's got to be perfect.
You go now.
Call me tomorrow. But not from your house. From a booth. And watch your step. Every single minute. It's got to be perfect, understand. Straight down the line.
Straight down the line.
The first thing we had to do was fix him up with that accident policy. I knew he wouldn't buy, but all I wanted was his signature on an application. So I had to make him sign without his knowing what he was signing. And I wanted a witness other than Phyllis to hear me give him a sales talk. I was trying to think with your brains, Keyes. I wanted all the answers ready for all the questions you were going to spring as soon as Dietrichson was dead.
A couple of nights later I went to the house. Everything looked fine, except I didn't like the witness Phyllis had brought in. It was Dietrichson's daughter Lola, and it made me feel a little queer in the belly to have her right there in the room, playing Chinese checkers, as if nothing was going to happen.
I suppose you realize, Mr. Dietrichson, that, not being an employee, you are not covered by the State Compensation Insurance Act. The only way you can protect yourself is by having a personal policy of your own.
I know all about that. The next thing you'll tell me I need earthquake insurance and lightning insurance and hail insurance.
 If we bought all the insurance they can think up, we'd stay broke paying for it, wouldn't we, honey?
What keeps us broke is you going out and buying five hats at a crack. Who needs a hat in California?
I always say insurance is a lot like a hot water bottle. It looks kind of useless and silly hanging on the hook, but when you get that stomach ache in the middle of the night, it comes in mighty handy.
Now you want to sell me a hot water bottle.
Dollar for dollar, accident insurance is the cheapest coverage you can buy, Mr. Dietrichson.
Maybe some other time, Mr. Neff. I had a tough day.
Just as you say, Mr. Dietrichson.
Suppose we just settle that automobile insurance tonight.
Sure. All we need on that is for you to sign an application for renewal.
Phyllis, do you mind if we don't finish this game? It bores me stiff.
Got some thing better to do?
Yes, I have.
 Father, is it all right if I run along now?
Run along where? Who with?
Just Anne. We're going roller skating.
Anne who?
Anne Matthews.
It's not that Nino Zachetti again?
It better not be that Zachetti guy. If I ever catch you with that ---
It's Anne Matthews, I told you. I also told you we're going roller skating. I'm meeting her at the corner of Vermont and Franklin -- the north- west corner, in case you're interested. And I'm late already. I hope that is all clear. Good night, Father. Good night, Phyllis.
Good night, Miss Dietrichson.
Oh, I'm sorry. Good night, Mr. --
Neff.
Good night, Mr. Neff.
Now you're not going to take my car again.
No thanks. I'd rather be dead.
A great little fighter for her weight.
This is where you sign, Mr. Dietrichson.
Sign what?
The applications for your auto renewals. So you'll be protected until the new policies are issued.
When will that be?
In about a week.
Just so I'm covered when I drive up North.
San Francisco, Mr. Dietrichson?
Palo Alto.
He was a Stanford man, Mr. Neff. And he still goes to his class reunion every year.
What's wrong with that? Can't I have a little fun even once a year?
Great football school, Stanford. Did you play football, Mr. Dietrichson?
Left guard. Almost made the varsity, too.
On that bottom line, Mr. Dietrichson.
Both copies, please.
Sign twice, huh?
One is the agent's copy. I need it for my files.
 Files. Duplicates. Triplicates.
No hurry about the check, Mr. Dietrichson. I can pick it up at your office some morning.
How much you taking me for?
One forty-seven fifty, Mr. Dietrichson.
I guess that's enough insurance for one evening, Mr. Neff.
Plenty.
Good night, Mr. Neff.
Good night, Mr. Dietrichson. Good night, Mrs. Dietrichson.
Bring me some soda when you come up, Phyllis.
 I think you left your hat in the hall.
All right, Walter?
Fine.
He signed it, didn't he?
Sure he signed it. You saw him.
 Watch it, will you.
Listen. That trip to Palo Alto When does he go?
End of the month.
He drives, huh?
He always drives.
Not this time. You're going to make him take the train.
Why?
Because it's all worked out for a train.
It's all right. Go on, Walter.
Look, baby. There's a clause in every accident policy, a little something called double indemnity. The insurance companies put it in as a sort of come-on for the customers. It means they pay double on certain accidents. The kind that almost never happen. Like for instance if a guy got killed on a train, they'd pay a hundred thousand instead of fifty.
I see. (Her eyes widen with excitement)
We're hitting it for the limit, baby. That's why it's got to be a train.
It's going to be a train, Walter. Just the way you say. Straight down the line.
Hello, Mr. Neff. It's me.
Something the matter?
I've been waiting for you.
For me? What for?
I thought you could let me ride with you, if you're going my way.
Which way would that be?
Down the hill. Down Vermont.
 Oh, sure. Vermont and Franklin. North- west corner, wasn't it? Be glad to, Miss Dietrichson.
Roller skating, eh? You like roller skating?
I can take it or leave it.
Only tonight you're leaving it?
Yes, I am. You see, Mr. Neff, I'm having a very tough time at home. My father doesn't understand me and Phyllis hates me.
That does sound tough, all right.
That's why I have to lie sometimes.
You mean it's not Vermont and Franklin.
It's Vermont and Franklin all right. Only it's not Anne Matthews. It's Nino Zachetti. You won't tell on me, will you?
I'd have to think it over.
Nino's not what my father says at all. He just had bad luck. He was doing pre-med at U.S.C. and working nights as an usher in a theater downtown. He got behind in his credits and flunked out. Then he lost his job for talking back. He's so hot- headed.
That comes expensive, doesn't it?
I guess my father thinks nobody's good enough for his daughter except maybe the guy that owns Standard Oil. Would you like a stick of gum?
Never use it, thanks.
I can't give Nino up. I wish father could see it my way.
It'll straighten out all right, Miss Dietrichson.
I suppose it will sometime.  This is the corner right here, Mr. Neff.
There he is. By the bus stop.
He needs a hair-cut, doesn't he. Look at him. No job, no car, no money, no prospects, no nothing.  I love him.
 Nino!
Over here, Nino.
This is Mr. Neff, Nino.
Hello, Nino.
 The name is Zachetti.
Nino. Please. Mr. Neff gave me a ride from the house. I told him all about us.
Why does he have to get told about us?
We don't have to worry about Mr. Neff, Nino.
I'm not doing any worrying. Just don't you broadcast so much.
What's the matter with you, Nino? He's a friend.
I don't have any friends. And if I did, I like to pick them myself.
Look, sonny, she needed the ride and I brought her along. Is that anything to get tough about?
All right, Lola, make up your mind. Are you coming or aren't you?
Of course I'm coming. Don't mind him, Mr. Neff.
Thanks a lot. You've been very sweet.
She was a nice kid and maybe he was a little better than he sounded. I kind of hoped so for her sake, but right then it gave me a nasty feeling to be thinking about them at all, with that briefcase right behind my head and her father's application in it. Besides, I had other problems to work out. There were plans to make, and Phyllis had to be in on them...
 ...but we couldn't be seen together any more and I had told her never to call me from her house and never to call me at my office. So we had picked out a big market on Los Feliz. She was to be there buying stuff every day about eleven o'clock, and I could run into her there. Kind of accidentally on purpose.
Walter.
Not so loud.
I wanted to talk to you, Walter. Ever since yesterday.
Let me talk first. It's all set. The accident policy came through. I've got it in my pocket. I got his check too. I saw him down in the oil fields. He thought he was paying for the auto insurance. The check's just made out to the company. It could be for anything. But you have to send a check for the auto insurance, see. It's all right that way, because one of the cars is yours.
But listen, Walter ---
Quick, open your bag.
Can you get into his safe deposit box?
Yes. We both have keys.
Fine. But don't put the policy in there yet. I'll tell you when. And listen, you never touched it or even saw it, understand?
I'm not a fool.
Okay. When is he taking the train?
Walter, that's just it. He isn't going.
What?
That's what I've been trying to tell you. The trip is off.
What's happened?
 Mister, could you reach me that can of coffee?  That one up there.
 This one?
I don't see why they always have to put what I want on the top shelf.
Go ahead. I'm listening.
He had a fall down at the well. He broke his leg. It's in a cast.
That knocks it on the head all right.
What do we do, Walter?
Nothing. Just wait.
Wait for what?
Until he can take a train. I told you it's got to be a train.
We can't wait. I can't go on like this.
We're not going to grab a hammer and do it quick, just to get it over with.
There are other ways.
Only we're not going to do it other ways.
But we can't leave it like this. What do you think would happen if he found out about this accident policy?
Plenty. But not as bad as sitting in that death-house.
Don't ever talk like that, Walter.
Just don't let's start losing our heads.
It's not our heads. It's our nerve we're losing.
We're going to do it right. That's all I said.
Walter maybe it's my nerves. It's the waiting that gets me.
It's getting me just as bad, baby. But we've got to wait.
Maybe we have, Walter. Only it's so tough without you. It's like a wall between us.
Good-bye baby. I'm thinking of you every minute.
After that a full week went by and I didn't see her once. I tried to keep my mind off her and off the whole idea. I kept telling myself that maybe those fates they say watch over you had gotten together and broken his leg to give me a way out. Then it was the fifteenth of June. You may remember that date, Keyes. I do too, only for a very different reason. You came into my office around three in the afternoon...
Hello, Keyes.
I just came from Norton's office. The semi-annual sales records are out. You're high man, Walter. That's twice in a row. Congratulations.
Thanks. How would you like a cheap drink?
How would you like a fifty dollar cut in salary?
How would I -- Do I laugh now, or wait until it gets funny?
I'm serious, Walter. I've been talking to Norton. There's too much stuff piling up on my desk. Too much pressure on my nerves. I spend half the night walking up and down in my bed. I've got to have an assistant. I thought that you --
Me? Why pick on me?
Because I've got a crazy idea you might be good at the job.
That's crazy all right. I'm a salesman.
Yeah. A peddler, a glad-hander, a back-slapper. You're too good to be a salesman.
Nobody's too good to be a salesman.
Phooey. All you guys do is ring door- bells and dish out a smooth line of monkey talk. What's bothering you is that fifty buck cut, isn't it?
That'd bother anybody.
Look, Walter. The job I'm talking about takes brains and integrity. It takes more guts than there is in fifty salesman. It's the hottest job in the business.
It's still a desk job. I don't want a desk job.
A desk job. Is that all you can see in it? Just a hard chair to park your pants on from nine to five. Just a pile of papers to shuffle around, and five sharp pencils and a scratch pad to make figures on, with maybe a little doodling on the side. That's not the way I see it, Walter. To me a claims man is a surgeon, and that desk is an operating table, and those pencils are scalpels and bone chisels. And those papers are not just forms and statistics and claims for compensation. They're alive, they're packed with drama, with twisted hopes and crooked dreams. A claims man, Walter, is a doctor and a blood-hound and a cop and a judge and a jury and a father confessor, all in one.
Who? Okay, hold the line.
And you want to tell me you're not interested. You don't want to work with your brains. All you want to work with is your finger on a door- bell. For a few bucks more a week. There's a dame on your phone.
Walter Neff speaking.
I had to call you, Walter. It's terribly urgent. Are you with somebody?
Of course I am. Can't I call you back... Margie?
Walter, I've only got a minute. It can't wait. Listen. He's going tonight. On the train. Are you listening, Walter? Walter!
I'm listening. Only make it short... Margie.
He's on crutches. The doctor says he can go if he's careful. The change will do him good. It's wonderful, Walter. Just the way you wanted it. Only with the crutches it's ever so much better, isn't it?
One hundred percent better. Hold the line a minute.
Suppose I join you in your office, Keyes --
I'll wait. Only tell Margie not to take all day.
Go ahead.
It's the ten-fifteen from Glendale. I'm driving him. Is it still that same dark street?
Yeah -- sure.
The signal is three honks on the horn. Is there anything else?
What color did you pick out?
Color?  Oh, sure. The blue suit, Walter. Navy blue. And the cast on his left leg.
Navy blue. I like that fine.
This is it, Walter. I'm shaking like a leaf. But it's straight down the line now for both of us. I love you, Walter. Goodbye.
So long, Margie.
I'm sorry, Keyes.
What's the matter? The dames chasing you again? Or still? Or is it none of my business?
 If I told you it was a customer --
Margie! I bet she drinks from the bottle. Why don't you settle down and get married, Walter?
Why don't you, for instance?
I almost did, once. A long time ago.
Look, Keyes, I've got a prospect to call on.
We even had the church all picked out, the dame and I. She had a white satin dress with flounces on it. And I was on my way to the jewelry store to buy the ring. Then suddenly that little man in here started working on me.
So you went back and started investigating her. That it?
And the stuff that came out. She'd been dyeing her hair ever since she was sixteen. And there was a manic- depressive in her family, on her mother's side. And she already had one husband, a professional pool player in Baltimore. And as for her brother --
I get the general idea. She was a tramp from a long line of tramps.
All right, I'm going. What am I to say to Norton? How about that job I want you for?
I don't think I want it. Thanks, Keyes, just the same.
Fair enough. Just get this: I picked you for the job, not because I think you're so darn smart, but because I thought maybe you were a shade less dumb than the rest of the outfit. I guess I was all wet. You're not smarter, Walter. You're just a little taller.
That was it, Keyes, and there was no use kidding myself any more. Those fates I was talking about had only been stalling me off. Now they had thrown the switch. The gears had meshed. The machinery had started to move and nothing could stop it. The time for thinking had all run out. From here on it was a question of following the time table, move by move, just as we had it rehearsed. I wanted my time all accounted for for the rest of the afternoon and up to the last possible moment in the evening. So I arranged to call on a prospect in Pasadena about a public liability bond. When I left the office I put my rate book on the desk as if I had forgotten it. That was part of the alibi.
I got home about seven and drove right into the garage. This was another item to establish my alibi.
Hiya there, Mr. Neff.
How about a wash job on my heap, Charlie?
How soon you want it, Mr. Neff? I got two cars ahead of you.
Anytime you get to it, Charlie. I'm staying in tonight.
Okay, Mr. Neff. Be all shined up for you in the morning.
That left front tire looks a little soft. Check it, will you?
You bet. Check 'em all round. Always do.
Up in my apartment I called Lou Schwartz, one of the salesmen that shared my office. He lived in Westwood. That made it a toll call and there'd be a record of it. I told him I had forgotten my rate book and needed some dope on the public liability bond I was figuring. I asked him to call me back. This was another item in my alibi, so that later on I could prove that I had been home.
I changed into a navy blue suit like Dietrichson was going to wear. Lou Schwartz called me back and gave me a lot of figures...
 I stuffed a hand towel and a big roll of adhesive tape into my pockets, so I could fake something that looked like a cast on a broken leg... Next I fixed the telephone and the doorbell, so that the cards would fall down if the bells rang. That way I would know there had been a phone call or visitor while I was away. I left the apartment house by the fire stairs and side door. Nobody saw me. It was already getting dark. I took the Vermont Avenue bus to Los Feliz and walked from there up to the Dietrichson house. There was that smell of honeysuckle again, only stronger, now that it was evening.
Then I was in the garage. His car was backed in, just the way I told Phyllis to have it. It was so still I could hear the ticking of the clock on the dashboard. I kept thinking of the place we had picked out to do it, that dark street on the way to the station, and the three honks on the horn that were to be the signal... About ten minutes later they came down.
You all right, honey? I'll have the car out in a second.
Take it easy, honey. We've got lots of time.
Just let me do it my own way. Grab that crutch.
They ought to make these things so they fold up.
Aw, stop squawkin' can't you, Phyllis? No man takes his wife along to a class reunion. That's what class reunions are for.
Mrs. Tucker went along with her husband last year, didn't she.
Yeah, and what happened to her? She sat in the hotel lobby for four days straight. Never even saw the guy until we poured him back on the train.
All right, honey. Just so long as you have a good time.
I won't do much dancing, I can tell you that.
Remember what the doctor said. If you get careless you might end up with a shorter leg.
So what? I could break the other one and match them up again.
It makes you feel pretty good to get away from me, doesn't it?
It's only for four days. I'll be back Monday at the latest.
Don't forget we're having the Hobeys for dinner on Monday.
The Hobeys? We had them last. They owe us a dinner, don't they?
Maybe they do but I've already asked them for Monday.
Well, I don't want to feed the Hobeys.
And I don't want to eat at their house either. The food you get there, and that rope he hands out for cigars. Call it off, can't you?
What are you doing that for? What the --
 You handle the redcap and the conductor.
Don't worry.
Keep them away from me as much as you can. I don't want to be helped.
I said don't worry, Walter.
You start just as soon as the train leaves. At the dairy sign you turn off the highway onto the dirt road. From there it's exactly eight-tenths of a mile to the dump beside the tracks. Remember?
I remember everything.
You'll be there a little ahead of the train. No speeding. You don't want any cops stopping you -- with him in the back.
Walter, we've been through all that so many times.
When you turn off the highway, cut all your lights. I'm going to be back on the observation platform. I'll drop off as close to the spot as I can. Wait for the train to pass, then blink your lights twice.
San Francisco train, lady?
Car nine, section eleven. Just my husband going.
Car nine, section eleven. Yessum, this way please.
It's all right, thanks. My husband doesn't like to be helped.
Car nine, section eleven. The gentleman only. Thank you.
Goodbye, honey. Take awful good care of yourself with that leg.
Sure, I will. Just you take it easy going home.
I'll miss you, honey.
Section eleven, suh.
 All aboard!
Good luck, honey.
Can you make up my berth right away?
Yes, sir.
I'm going back to the observation car for a smoke.
This way, sir. Three cars back.
Can I pull a chair out for you?
No thanks, I'd rather stand.
You going far?
Palo Alto.
My name's Jackson. I'm going all the way to Medford. Medford, Oregon. Had a broken arm myself once.
Uh-huh.
That darn cast sure itches something fierce, don't it? I thought I'd go crazy with mine.
Palo Alto's a nice little town. You a Stanford man?
Used to be.
I bet you left something behind. I always do.
My cigar case. Must have left it in my overcoat back in the section.
Care to roll yourself a cigarette, Mr. --?
Dietrichson. Thanks. I really prefer cigars.  Maybe the porter --
I could get your cigars for you. Be glad to, Mr. Dietrichson.
That's darn nice of you. It's car nine, section eleven. If you're sure it's not too much trouble.
Car nine, section eleven. A pleasure.
Okay. This has to go fast. Take his hat and pick up the crutches.
Hang on to that rug. I'll need it.
Let's go. Stay behind me.
Get in. You drive.
Let's go, baby.
On the way back we went over once more what she was to do at the inquest, if they had one, and about the insurance, when that came up. I was afraid she might go to pieces a little, now that we had done it, but she was perfect. No nerves. Not a tear, not even a blink of the eyes...
 She dropped me a block from my apartment house.
Walter.
What's the matter, Walter. Aren't you going to kiss me?
Sure, I'm going to kiss you.
It's straight down the line, isn't it?
I love you, Walter.
I love you, baby.
It was two minutes past eleven as I went up the fire stairs again. Nobody saw me this time either.
 In the apartment I checked the bells. The cards hadn't moved. No calls. No visitors.
I changed the blue suit. There was one last thing to do. I wanted the garage man to see me again.
You going to need it after all, Mr. Neff? I'm about through.
It's okay, Charlie. Just walking down to the drug store for something to eat. Been working upstairs all evening. My stomach's getting sore at me.
That was all there was to it. Nothing had slipped, nothing had been overlooked, there was nothing to give us away. And yet, Keyes, as I was walking down the street to the drug store, suddenly it came over me that everything would go wrong. It sounds crazy, Keyes, but it's true, so help me: I couldn't hear my own footsteps. It was the walk of a dead man.
Didn't know anybody was here, Mr. Neff. We ain't cleaned your office yet.
Let it go tonight. I'm busy.
Whatever you say, Mr. Neff.
That was the longest night I ever lived through, Keyes, and the next day was worse, when the story broke in the papers, and they were talking about it at the office, and the day after that when you started digging into it. I kept my hands in my pockets because I thought they were shaking, and I put on dark glasses so people couldn't see my eyes, and then I took them off again so people wouldn't get to wondering why I wore them. I was trying to hold myself together, but I could feel my nerves pulling me to pieces....
Come on, Walter. The big boss wants to see us.
Okay.
That Dietrichson case?
Must be.
Anything wrong?
The guy's dead, we had him insured and it's going to cost us money. That's always wrong.
What have you got so far?
Autopsy report. No heart failure, no apoplexy, no predisposing medical cause of any kind. He died of a broken neck.
When is the inquest?
They had it this morning. His wife and daughter made the identification. The train people and some passengers told how he went through to the observation car.. It was all over in forty-five minutes. Verdict, accidental death.
What do the police figure?
That he got tangled up in his crutches and fell off the train. They're satisfied. It's not their dough.
 I believe the legal position is now clear, gentlemen. Please stand by. I may need you later.
Come in, Mr. Keyes. You too, Mr. Neff.
You find this an uncomfortably warm day Mr. Keyes?
Sorry, Mr. Norton. I didn't know this was formal.
Sit down, gentlemen.  Any new developments?
I just talked to this Jackson long distance. Up in Medford, Oregon.
Who's Jackson?
The last guy that saw Dietrichson alive. They were out on the observation platform together talking. Dietrichson wanted a cigar and Jackson went to get Dietrichson's cigar case for him. When he came back to the observation platform, no Dietrichson. Jackson didn't think anything was wrong until a wire caught up with the train at Santa Barbara. They had found Dietrichson's body on the tracks near Burbank.
Very interesting, about the cigar case.
Anything else?
Not much. Dietrichson's secretary says she didn't know anything about the policy. There is a daughter, but all she remembers is Neff talking to her father about accident insurance at their house one night.
I couldn't sell him at first. Mrs. Dietrichson opposed it. He told me he'd think it over. Later on I went down to the oil fields and closed him. He signed the application and gave me his check.
 A fine piece of salesmanship that was, Mr. Neff.
There's no sense in pushing Neff around. He's got the best sales record in the office. Are your salesmen supposed to know that the customer is going to fall off a train?
Fall off a train? Are we sure Dietrichson fell off the train?
I don't get it.
You don't, Mr. Keyes? Then what do you think of this case? This policy might cost us a great deal of money. As you know, it contains a double indemnity clause. Just what is your opinion?
No opinion at all.
Not even a hunch? One of those interesting little hunches of yours?
Nope. Not even a hunch.
I'm surprised, Mr. Keyes. I've formed a very definite opinion. I think I know -- in fact I know I know what happened to Dietrichson.
You know you know what?
I know it was not an accident.
What do you say to that?
Me? You've got the ball. Let's see you run with it.
There's a widespread feeling that just because a man has a large office --
 Yes?... Have her come in, please.
-- that just because a man has a large office he must be an idiot. I'm having a visitor, if you don't mind.
No, no. I want you to stay and watch me handle this.
Mrs. Dietrichson.
Thank you very much for coming, Mrs. Dietrichson. I assure you I appreciate it.
This is Mr. Keyes.
How do you do.
How do you do.
And Mr. Neff.
I've met Mr. Neff. How do you do.
Mrs. Dietrichson, I assure you of our sympathy in your bereavement. I hesitated before asking you to come here so soon after your loss.
But now that you're here I hope you won't mind if I plunge straight into business. You know why we asked you to come, don't you?
No. All I know is that your secretary made it sound very urgent.
Your husband had an accident policy with this company. Evidently you don't know that, Mrs. Dietrichson.
No. I remember some talk at the house --
-- but he didn't seem to want it.
He took it out a few days later, Mrs. Dietrichson.
I see.
You'll probably find the policy among his personal effects.
His safe deposit box hasn't been opened yet. It seems a tax examiner has to be present.
Please, Mrs. Dietrichson, I don't want you to think you are being subjected to any questioning. But there are a few things we should like to know.
What sort of things?
We have the report of the coroner's inquest. Accidental death. We are not entirely satisfied. In fact we are not satisfied at all.
Frankly, Mrs. Dietrichson, we suspect suicide.
I'm sorry. Would you like a glass of water?
Please.
Mr. Neff.
Thank you.
Had your husband been moody or depressed lately, Mrs. Dietrichson? Did he seem to have financial worries, for instance?
He was perfectly all right and I don't know of any financial worries.
There must have been something, Mrs. Dietrichson. Let us examine this so- called accident. First, your husband takes out this policy in absolute secrecy. Why? Because he doesn't want his family to suspect what he intends to do.
Do what?
Commit suicide. Next, he goes on this trip entirely alone. He has to be alone. He hobbles all the way out to the observation platform, very unlikely with his leg in a cast, unless he has a very strong reason. Once there, he finds he is not alone. There is a man there. What was his name, Keyes?
His name was Jackson. Probably still is.
Jackson. So your husband gets rid of this Jackson with some flimsy excuse about cigars. And then he is alone. And then he does it. He jumps. Suicide. In which case the company is not liable.  You know that, of course. We could go to court --
I don't know anything. In fact I don't know why I came here.
Just a moment, please. I said we could go to court. I didn't say we want to. Not only is it against our practice, but it would involve a great deal of expense, a lot of lawyers, a lot of time, perhaps years.
So what I want to suggest is a compromise on both sides. A settlement for a certain sum, a part of the policy value --
Don't bother, Mr. Norton. When I came in here I had no idea you owed me any money. You told me you did. Then you told me you didn't. Now you tell me you want to pay me a part of it, whatever it is. You want to bargain with me, at a time like this. I don't like your insinuations about my husband, Mr. Norton, and I don't like your methods. In fact I don't like you, Mr. Norton. Goodbye, gentlemen.
Nice going, Mr. Norton. You sure carried that ball.
Only you fumbled on the goal line. Then you heaved an illegal forward pass and got thrown for a forty-yard loss. Now you can't pick yourself up because you haven't got a leg to stand on.
I haven't eh? Let her claim. Let her sue. We can prove it was suicide.
Can we? Mr. Norton, the first thing that hit me was that suicide angle. Only I dropped it in the wastepaper basket just three seconds later. You ought to take a look at the statistics on suicide sometime. You might learn a little something about the insurance business.
I was raised in the insurance business, Mr. Keyes.
Yeah. In the front office. Come on, you never read an actuarial table in your life. I've got ten volumes on suicide alone. Suicide by race, by color, by occupation, by sex, by seasons of the year, by time of day. Suicide, how committed: by poisons, by fire-arms, by drowning, by leaps. Suicide by poison, subdivided by types of poison, such as corrosive, irritant, systemic, gaseous, narcotic, alkaloid, protein, and so forth. Suicide by leaps, subdivided by leaps from high places, under wheels of trains, under wheels of trucks, under the feet of horses, from steamboats. But Mr. Norton, of all the cases on record there's not one single case of suicide by leap from the rear end of a moving train. And do you know how fast that train was going at the point where the body was found? Fifteen miles an hour. Now how could anybody jump off a slow moving train like that with any kind of expectation that he would kill himself? No soap, Mr. Norton. We're sunk, and we're going to pay through the nose, and you know it. May I have this?
Come on, Walter.
Next time I'll rent a tuxedo.
I could have hugged you right then and there, Keyes, you and your statistics. You were the only one we were really scared of, and instead you were almost playing on our team...
That evening when I got home my nerves had eased off. I could feel the ground under my feet again, and it looked like easy going from there on it.
Hello... Hello, baby.... Sure, everything is fine... You were wonderful in Norton's office.
I felt so funny. I wanted to look at you all the time.
How do you think I felt? Where are you, baby?
At the drug store. Just a block away. Can I come up?
Okay. But be careful. Don't let anybody see you.
Hello, Keyes.
What's on your mind?
That broken leg. The guy broke his leg.
What are you talking about?
Talking about Dietrichson. He had accident insurance, didn't he? Then he broke his leg, didn't he?
So what?
And he didn't put in a claim. Why didn't he put in a claim? Why?
What the dickens are you driving at?
Walter. There's something wrong. I ate dinner two hours ago. It stuck half way.
The little man is acting up again. Because there's something wrong with that Dietrichson case.
Because he didn't put in a claim? Maybe he just didn't have time.
Oh maybe he just didn't know he was insured.
No. That couldn't be it. You delivered the policy to him personally, didn't you, Walter? And you got his check.
 Sure, I did.
Got any bicarbonate of soda?
No I haven't.
Listen, Walter. I've been living with this little man for twenty-six years. He's never failed me yet. There's got to be something wrong.
Maybe Norton was right. Maybe it was suicide, Keyes.
No. Not suicide.  But not accident either.
What else?
Look. A man takes out an accident policy that is worth a hundred thousand dollars if he is killed on a train. Then, two weeks later, he is killed on a train. And not in a train accident, mind you, but falling off some silly observation car. Do you know what the mathematical probability of that is, Walter? One out of I don't know how many billions. And add to that the broken leg. It just can't be the way it looks, Walter. Something has been worked on us.
Such as what?
Murder?
 Don't you have any peppermint or anything?
I'm sorry.  Who do you suspect?
Maybe I like to make things easy for myself. But I always tend to suspect the beneficiary.
The wife?
Yeah. That wide-eyed dame that didn't know anything about anything.
You're crazy, Keyes. She wasn't even on the train.
I know she wasn't, Walter. I don't claim to know how it was worked, or who worked it, but I know that it was worked.
I've got to get to a drug store. It feels like a hunk of concrete inside me.
Good night, Walter.
Good night, Keyes.
See you at the office in the morning.
But I'd like to move in on her right now, tonight, if it wasn't for Norton and his stripe-pants ideas about company policy. I'd have the cops after her so quick her head would spin. They'd put her through the wringer, and, brother, what they would squeeze out.
Only you haven't got a single thing to go on, Keyes.
Not too much. Twenty-six years experience, all the percentage there is, and this lump of concrete in my stomach.
 No bicarbonate of soda.
How much does he know?
It's not what he knows. It's those stinking hunches of his.
But he can't prove anything, can he?
Not if we're careful. Not if we don't see each other for a while.
For how long a while?
Until all this dies down. You don't know Keyes the way I do. Once he gets his teeth into something he won't let go. He'll investigate you. He'll have you shadowed. He'll watch you every minute from now on. Are you afraid, baby?
Yes, I'm afraid. But not of Keyes. I'm afraid of us. We're not the same any more. We did it so we could be together, but instead of that it's pulling us apart. Isn't it, Walter?
What are you talking about?
And you don't really care whether we see each other or not.
Shut up, baby.
Hello, Mr. Neff.
Hello.
Lola Dietrichson. Don't you remember me?
 Yes. Of course.
Could I talk to you, just for a few minutes? Somewhere where we can be alone?
Sure. Come on into my office.
Is it something to do with -- what happened?
Yes, Mr. Neff. It's about my father's death.
I'm terribly sorry, Miss Dietrichson.
 Lou, do you mind if I use the office alone for a few minutes?
It's all yours, Walter.
Won't you sit down?
Mr. Neff, I can't help it, but I have such a strange feeling that there is something queer about my father's death.
Queer? Queer in what way?
I don't know why I should be bothering you with my troubles, except that you knew my father and knew about the insurance he took out. And you were so nice to me that evening in your car.
Sure. We got along fine, didn't we.
Look at me, Mr. Neff. I'm not crazy. I'm not hysterical. I'm not even crying. But I have the awful feeling that something is wrong, and I had the same feeling once before -- when my mother died.
When your mother died?
We were up at Lake Arrowhead. That was six years ago. We had a cabin there. It was winter and very cold and my mother was very sick with pneumonia. She had a nurse with her. There were just the three of us in the cabin. One night I got up and went into my mother's room. She was delirious with fever. All the bed covers were on the floor and the windows were wide open. The nurse wasn't in the room. I ran and covered my mother up as quickly as I could. Just then I heard a door open behind me. The nurse stood there. She didn't say a word, but there was a look in her eyes I'll never forget. Two days later my mother was dead.  Do you know who that nurse was?
No. Who?
Phyllis. I tried to tell my father, but I was just a kid then and he wouldn't listen to me. Six months later she married him and I kind of talked myself out of the idea that she could have done anything like that. But now it's all back again, now that something has happened to my father, too.
You're not making sense, Miss Dietrichson. Your father fell off a train.
Yes, and two days before he fell off that train what was Phyllis doing? She was in her room in front of a mirror, with a black hat on, and she was pinning a black veil to it, as if she couldn't wait to see how she would look in mourning.
Look. You've had a pretty bad shock. Aren't you just imagining all this?
I caught her eyes in the mirror, and they had that look in them they had before my mother died. That same look.
You don't like your step-mother, do you? Isn't it just because she is your step-mother?
I loathe her. Because she did it. She did it for the money. Only you're not going to pay her, are you, Mr. Neff? She's not going to get away with it this time. I'm going to speak up. I'm going to tell everything I know.
You'd better be careful, saying things like that.
I'm not afraid. You'll see.
I'm sorry. I didn't mean to act like this.
All this that you've been telling me -- who else have you told?
No one.
How about your step-mother?
Of course not. I'm not living in the house any more. I moved out.
And you didn't tell that boy-friend of yours? Zachetti.
I'm not seeing him any more. We had a fight.
Where are you living then?
I got myself a little apartment in Hollywood.
Four walls, and you just sit and look at them, huh?
 Yes, Mr. Neff.
So I took her to dinner that evening at a Mexican joint down on Olvera Street where nobody would see us. I wanted to cheer her up..
Next day was Sunday and we went for a ride down to the beach. She had loosened up a bit and she was even laughing... I had to make sure she wouldn't tell that stuff about Phyllis to anybody else. It was dynamite, whether it was true or not. And I had no chance to talk to Phyllis. You were watching her like a hawk, Keyes. I couldn't even phone her for fear you had the wires tapped.
Monday morning there was a note on my desk that you wanted to see me, Keyes. For a minute I wondered if it could be about Lola. It was worse. Outside your door was the last guy in the world I wanted to see.
Come in. Come in, Walter. I want to ask you something. After all the years we've known each other, do you mind if I make a rather blunt statement?
About what?
About me. Walter, I'm a very great man. This Dietrichson business. It's murder, and murders don't come any neater. As fancy a piece of homicide as anybody ever ran into. Smart and tricky and almost perfect, but --
but, I think Papa has it all figured out, figured out and wrapped up in tissue paper with pink ribbons on it.
I'm listening.
You know what? That guy Dietrichson was never on the train.
He wasn't?
No, he wasn't, Walter. Look, you can't be sure of killing a man by throwing him off a train that's going fifteen miles an hour. The only way you can be sure is to kill him first and then throw his body on the tracks. That would mean either killing him on the train, or -- and this is where it really gets fancy -- you kill him somewhere else and put him on the tracks. Two possibilities, and I personally buy the second.
You're way ahead of me, Keyes.
Look, it was like this. They killed the guy -- the wife and somebody else -- and then the somebody else took the crutches and went on the train as Dietrichson, and then the somebody else jumped off, and then they put the body on the tracks where the train had passed. An impersonation, see. And a cinch to work. Because it was night, very few people were about, they had the crutches to stare at, and they never really looked at the man at all.
It's fancy all right, Keyes. Maybe it's a little too fancy.
Is it? I tell you it fits together like a watch. And now let's see what we have in the way of proof. The only guy that really got a good look at this supposed Dietrichson is sitting right outside my office. I took the trouble to bring him down here from Oregon. Let's see what he has to say.
Come in, Mr. Jackson.
Yes sir, Mr. Keyes. These are fine cigars you smoke.
Two for a quarter.
That's what I said.
Never mind the cigar, Jackson. Did you study those photographs? What do you say?
Yes, indeed, I studied them thoroughly. Very thoroughly
Well? Did you make up your mind?
Mr. Keyes, I'm a Medford man. Medford, Oregon. Up in Medford we take our time making up our minds --
Well you're not in Medford now. I'm in a hurry. Let's have it.
Are these photographs of the late Mr. Dietrichson?
Yes.
Then my answer is no.
What do you mean no?
I mean this is not the man that was on the train.
Will you swear to that?
I'm a Medford man. Medford, Oregon. And if I say it, I mean it, and if I mean it, of course I'll swear it.
Thank you.
There you are, Walter. There's your proof.
Oh, Mr. Jackson, this is Mr. Neff, one of our salesmen.
Please to meet you, Mr. Neff. Pleased indeed.
How do you do.
Very fine, thank you. Never was better.
Mr. Jackson, how would you describe the man you saw on that observation platform?
Well, I'm pretty sure he was a younger man, about ten or fifteen years younger than the man in these photographs.
Dietrichson was about fifty, wasn't he, Walter?
Fifty-one, according to the policy.
The man I saw was nothing like fifty- one years old. Of course, it was pretty dark on that platform and, come to think of it, he tried to keep his back towards me. But I'm positive just the same.
That's fine, Jackson. Now you understand this matter is strictly confidential. We may need you again down here in Los Angeles, if the case comes to court.
Any time you need me, I'm at your entire disposal, gentlemen. Expenses paid, of course.
Get me Lubin, in the cashier's office.
 Ever been in Medford, Mr. Neff?
Never.
Wait a minute. Do you go trout fishing? Maybe I saw you up Klamath Falls way.
Nope. Never fish.
Neff. Neff. I've got it! It's the name. There's a family of Neffs in Corvallis.
No relation.
Let me see. This man's an automobile dealer in Corvallis. Very reputable man, too, I'm told.
All right, Mr. Jackson. Suppose you go down to the cashier's office -- room twenty-seven on the eleventh floor. They'll take care of your expense account and your ticket for the train tonight.
Tonight? Tomorrow morning would suit me better. There's a very good osteopath down here I want to see before I leave.
Okay, Mr. Jackson. Just don't put her on the expense account.
Goodbye, gentlemen. A pleasure.
There it is, Walter. It's beginning to come apart at the seams already. A murder's never perfect. It always comes apart sooner or later. And when two people are involved it's usually sooner. We know the Dietrichson dame is in it, and somebody else. Pretty soon we're going to know who that somebody else is. He'll show. He's got to show. Sometime, somewhere, they've got to meet. Their emotions are all kicked up. Whether it's love or hate doesn't matter. They can't keep away from each other. They think it's twice as safe because there are two of them. But it's not twice as safe. It's ten times twice as dangerous. They've committed a murder and that's not like taking a trolley ride together where each one can get off at a different stop. They're stuck with each other. They've got to ride all the way to the end of the line. And it's a one-way trip, and the last stop is the cemetery.
 She put in her claim and I'm going to throw it right back at her. (Pats his pockets again) Have you got one of those?
Let her sue us if she dares. I'll be ready for her -- and that somebody else. They'll be digging their own graves.
 Mrs. Dietrichson?... This is Jerry's market. We just got in a shipment of that English soap you were asking about. Will you be coming by this morning?... Thank you, Mrs. Dietrichson.
Hello, Walter.
 Come closer.
What's the matter?
Everything's the matter. Keyes is rejecting your claim. He's sitting back with his mouth watering, waiting for you to sue. He wants you to sue. But you're not going to.
What's he got to stop me?
He's got the goods. He's figured out how it was worked. He knows it was somebody else on the train. He's dug up a witness he thinks will prove it.
Prove it how? Listen, if he rejects that claim, I have to sue.
Yeah? And then you're in court and a lot of other things are going to come up. Like, for instance, about you and the first Mrs. Dietrichson.
What about me and the first Mrs. Dietrichson?
The way she died. And about that black hat you were trying on -- before you needed a black hat.
Walter, Lola's been telling you some of her cockeyed stories. She's been seeing you.
I've been seeing her, if you want to know. So she won't yell her head off about what she knows.
Yes, she's been putting on an act for you, crying all over your shoulder, that lying little --
Keep her out of it. All I'm telling you is we're not going to sue.
Because you don't want the money any more, even if you could get it? Because she's made you feel like a heel all of sudden.
It isn't the money any more. It's our necks now. We're pulling out, understand.
Because of what Keyes can do? You're not fooling me, Walter. It's because of Lola. What you did to her father. You can't take it that she might find out some day.
I said, leave her out of it.
Walter, it's me I'm talking about. I don't want to be left out of it.
Stop saying that. It's just that it hasn't worked out the way we wanted. We can't have the money. We can't go through with it, that's all.
We have gone through with it, Walter. The tough part is all behind us. We just have to hold on now and not go soft inside, and stick together, close, the way we started out.
Watch it, will you. Someone's coming.
I loved you, Walter. And I hated him. But I wasn't going to do anything about it, not until I met you. It was you had the plan. I only wanted him dead.
Yeah, and I was the one that fixed him so he was dead. Is that what you're telling me?
Yes. And nobody's pulling out. We went into it together, and we're coming out at the end together. It's straight down the line for both of us, remember.
Yeah. I remembered all right. Just as I remembered what you had told me, Keyes, about that trolley car ride and how there was no way to get off -- until the end of the line.
Yeah, I remembered it all right. Just as I remembered what you had told me, Keyes, about that trolley car ride, and how there was no way to get off until the end of the line, where the cemetery was. And I got to thinking what cemeteries are for. They're to put dead people in, I guess that was the first time I ever thought about Phyllis that way. Dead, I mean, and how things would be if she was dead. Because the way it was now she had me by the throat. She could hang me higher than a kite any day she felt like it. And there was nothing I could do, except hold my breath and watch that day come closer and closer, and maybe pray a little, if I still knew how to pray... I saw Lola three or four times that week. I guess it sounds crazy, Keyes, after what I had done, but it was only with her that I could relax and let go a little. Then one night we drove up into the hills above Hollywood Bowl...
Why are you crying?
You won't tell me?
 Of course I will, Walter. I wouldn't tell anybody else but you. It's about Nino.
Zachetti? What about him?
They killed my father together. He and Phyllis. He helped her do it. I know he did.
What makes you say that?
I've been following him. He's at her house, night after night. It was Phyllis and him all the time. Maybe he was going with me just for a blind. And the night of the murder --
You promised not to talk that way any more.
-- he was supposed to pick me up after a lecture at U.C.L.A. -- but he never showed up. He said he was sick. Sick! He couldn't show up, because the train was leaving with my father on it.
Maybe I'm just crazy. Maybe it's all just in my mind.
Sure, it's all in your mind.
I only wish it was, Walter, because I still love him.
Zachetti. That's funny. Phyllis and Zachetti. What was he doing up at her house? I couldn't figure that one out I tried to make sense out of it and got nowhere. But the real brain-twister came the next day. You sprang it on me, Keyes, after office hours, when you caught me down in the lobby of the building.
Oh, Walter, just a minute.
Hello, Keyes.
Hang onto your hat, Walter.
What for?
Nothing much. The Dietrichson case just busted wide open.
How do you mean?
The guy showed. That's how.
The somebody else?
Yeah. The guy that did it with her.
No kidding?
She's filed suit against us, and it's okay by me. When we get into that courtroom I'll tear them apart, both of them. Come on -- I'll buy you a martini.
No thanks, Keyes.
With two olives.
I've got to get a shave and a shoeshine. I've got a date.
Margie. I still bet she drinks from the bottle.
They give you matches when they sell you cigars, Keyes. All you have to do is ask for them.
I don't like them. They always explode in my pockets. So long, Walter.
You sure had me worried, Keyes. I didn't know if you were playing cat- and-mouse with me, whether you knew all along I was the somebody else. That's what I had to find out, and I thought I knew where to look...
 Twelve.
Upstairs, the last of the people were just leaving.
I made sure nobody saw me go into your office.
 Memo to Mr. Norton. Confidential. Dietrichson File. With regard to your proposal to put Walter Neff under surveillance, I disagree absolutely. I have investigated his movements on the night of the crime, and he is definitely placed in his apartment from 7:15 P.M. on. In addition to this, I have known Neff intimately for eleven years, and I personally vouch for him, without reservation...
 ...Furthermore, no connection whatsoever has been established between Walter Neff and Mrs. Phyllis Dietrichson, whereas I am now able to report that such a connection has been established between her and another man. This man has been observed to visit the Dietrichson home on the night of July 9th, 10th, 11th, 12th and 13th. We have succeeded in identifying him as one Nino Zachetti, former medical student, aged twenty-eight, residing at Lilac Court Apartments 1228 N. La Brea Avenue. We have checked Zachetti's movements on the night of the crime and have found that they cannot be accounted for. I am preparing a more detailed report for your consideration and it is my belief that we already have sufficient evidence against Zachetti and Mrs. Dietrichson to justify police action. I strongly urge that this whole matter be turned over to the office of the District Attorney. Respectfully, Barton Keyes.
Phyllis? Walter. I've got to see you... Tonight... Yes, it has to be tonight... How's eleven o'clock? Don't worry about Keyes. He's satisfied... Leave the door on the latch and put the lights out. No, nobody's watching the house... I told you Keyes is satisfied. It's just for the neighbors... That's what I said. Yeah. Eleven o'clock. Goodbye, baby.
I guess I don't have to tell you what I was going to do at eleven o'clock, Keyes. For the first time I saw a way to get clear of the whole mess I was in, and of Phyllis, too, all at the same time. Yeah, that's what I thought. But what I didn't know was that she was all set for me. That she had outsmarted me again, just like she always had...
She was all set and waiting for me. It could have been something in my voice when I called her up that tipped her off. And it could have been that she had the idea already. And an idea wasn't the only thing she had waiting for me.
 In here, Walter.
Hello, baby. Anybody else in the house?
Nobody. Why?
What's that music?
A radio up the street.
Just like the first time I was here. We were talking about automobile insurance. Only you were thinking about murder. And I was thinking about that anklet.
And what are you thinking about now?
I'm all through thinking. This is goodbye.
Goodbye? Where are you going?
It's you that's going, baby. Not me. I'm getting off the trolley car right at this corner.
Suppose you stop being fancy. Let's have it, whatever it is.
I have a friend who's got a funny theory. He says when two people commit a murder they're kind of on a trolley car, and one can't get off without the other. They're stuck with each other. They have to go on riding clear to the end of the line. And the last stop is the cemetery.
Maybe he's got something there.
You bet he has, Two people are going to ride to the end of the line, all right. Only I'm not going to be one of them. I've got another guy to finish my ride for me.
So you've got it all arranged, Walter.
You arranged it for me. I didn't have to do a thing.
Just who are you talking about?
An acquaintance of yours. A Mr. Zachetti. Come on, baby, I just got into this because I knew a little something about insurance, didn't I? I was just a sucker. I'd have been brushed-off as soon as you got your hands on the money.
What are you talking about?
Save it. I'm telling this. It's been you and that Zachetti guy all along, hasn't it?
That's not true.
It doesn't make any difference whether it's true or not. The point is Keyes believes Zachetti is the guy he's been looking for. He'll have him in that gas chamber before he knows what happened to him.
And what's happening to me all this time?
Don't be silly. What do you expect to happen to you? You helped him do the murder, didn't you? That's what Keyes thinks. And what's good enough for Keyes is good enough for me.
Maybe it's not good enough for me. Walter. Maybe I don't go for the idea. Maybe I'd rather talk.
Sometimes people are where they can't talk. Under six feet of dirt, for instance. And if it was you, they'd just charge it up to Zachetti, wouldn't they. One more item on his account. Sure they would. That's just what they're going to do. Especially since he's coming here, tonight... Oh, in about fifteen minutes from now, baby. With the cops right behind him. It's all taken care of.
And that'd make everything lovely for you, wouldn't it?
Right. And it's got to be done before that suit of yours comes to trial, and Lola gets a chance to sound off, and they trip you up on the stand, and you start to fold up and drag me down with you.
Listen, Walter. Maybe I had Zachetti here so they won't get a chance to trip me up. So we can get that money and be together.
That's cute. Say it again.
He came here the first time just to ask where Lola was. I made him come back. I was working on him. He's crazy sort of guy, quick-tempered. I kept hammering into him that she was with another man, so he'd get into one of his jealous rages, and then I'd tell him where she was. And you know what he'd have done to her, don't you, Walter.
Yeah, and for once I believe you. Because it's just rotten enough.
We're both rotten, Walter.
Only you're just a little more rotten. You're rotten clear through. You got me to take care of your husband, and then you got Zachetti to take care of Lola, and maybe take care of me too, and then somebody else would have come along to take care of Zachetti for you. That's the way you operate isn't it, baby.
Suppose it is, Walter. Is what you've cooked up for tonight any better?
I don't like this music anymore. It's too close. Do you mind if I shut the window?
 Walter!
What's the matter? Why don't you shoot again? Maybe if I came a little closer?
How's that. Do you think you can do it now?
Why didn't you shoot, baby?
Don't tell me it's because you've been in love with me all this time.
No. I never loved you, Walter. Not you, or anybody else. I'm rotten to the heart. I used you, just as you said. That's all you ever meant to me -- until a minute ago. I didn't think anything like that could ever happen to me.
I'm sorry, baby. I'm not buying.
I'm not asking you to buy. Just hold me close.
Goodbye, baby.
Hey you. Come here a minute. I said come here, Zachetti.
The name is Neff.
Yeah? And I still don't like it. What do you want?
Look, kid, I want to give you a present.
Here's a nice new nickel.
What's the gag?
Suppose you go back down the hill to a drug store and make a phone call.
Keep your nickel and buy yourself an ice cream cone.
The number is Granite 0386. Ask for Miss Dietrichson. The first name is Lola.
Lola? She isn't worth a nickel. And if I ever talk to her, it's not going to be over any telephone.
Tough, aren't you? Take the nickel. Take it and call her. She wants you to.
Yeah? She doesn't want any part of me.
I know who told you that, and it's not true. She's in love with you. Always has been. Don't ask me why. I couldn't even guess.
Now beat it. Granite 0386, I told you.
That way.
It's almost four-thirty now, Keyes. It's cold. I wonder if she's still lying there alone in that house, or whether they've found her by now. I wonder a lot of things, but they don't matter any more, except I want to ask you to do me a favor. I want you to be the one to tell Lola, kind of gently, before it breaks wide open... Yes, and I'd like you to look after her and that guy Zachetti, so he doesn't get pushed around too much. Because...
Hello, Keyes.
Up pretty early, aren't you? I always wondered what time you got down to work.
Or did your little man pull you out of bed?
The janitor did. Seems you leaked a little blood on the way in here.
Wouldn't be surprised.
I wanted to straighten out that Dietrichson story for you.
So I gather.
How long have you been standing there?
Long enough.
Kind of a crazy story with a crazy twist to it. One you didn't quite figure out.
You can't figure them all, Walter.
That's right. You can't, can you? And now I suppose I get the big speech, the one with all the two- dollar words in it. Let's have it, Keyes.
You're all washed up, Walter.
Thanks, Keyes. That was short anyway.
Walter, I'm going to call a doctor.
 What for? So they can patch me up? So they can nurse me along till I'm back on my feet? So I can walk under my own power into that gas chamber up in San Quentin? Is that it, Keyes?
Something like that, Walter.
Well, I've got a different idea. Look here. Suppose you went back to bed and didn't find these cylinders till tomorrow morning, when the office opens. From then on you can play it any way you like. Would you do that much for me, Keyes?
Give me one good reason.
I need four hours to get where I'm going.
You're not going anywhere, Walter.
You bet I am. I'm going across the border.
You haven't got a chance.
Good enough to try for.
You'll never make the border.
That's what you think. Watch me.
 You'll never even make the elevator.
So long, Keyes.
Hello... Send an ambulance to the Pacific Building on Olive Street... Yeah... It's a police job.
How you doing, Walter?
I'm fine. Only somebody moved the elevator a couple of miles away.
They're on the way.
 You know why you didn't figure this one, Keyes? Let me tell you. The guy you were looking for was too close. He was right across the desk from you.
Closer than that, Walter.
I love you too.
They're on the way.
 You know why you didn't figure this one, Keyes? Let me tell you. The guy you were looking for was too close. He was right across the desk from you.
Closer than that, Walter.
I love you too.
At the end of that... trolley line... just as I get off... you be there... to say goodbye... will you, Keyes?
That's all, gentlemen, Vacate the chamber, please.
