...hundred thousand streets in this city, you don't need to know the route. You give me a time and place, I give you a five minute window. Those five minutes I'm yours. Whatever goes down I'm yours. Minute either side you're on your own...
...One last thing. You won't be able to reach me at this number again...
9/24/10
...Plain Jane cheap like you asked for but with a hundred and sixty horsepower inside. You get any sleep?
Not this week.
I can offer you some Halcyon.
Won't work.
There she is. Silver Impala. Most popular car in the state of California...
...This is some comeback from the Clippers! Only a few minutes ago they looked dead and buried!...
...9 Adam 81, what is your current location?...Repeat, what is your current location?...
...Another unbelievable three pointer from Davis and the Clippers are within five!...
...Time out Knicks...
...Attention all units...211...Superstore on Traction Avenue...Suspects headed Eastbound on 1st Street...Driving a Silver Impala...
...Airships dispatched...Downtown and Boyle Heights...All units standby. Repeat, all units standby...
...1 Baker 11, headed south on Boyle Avenue...No sign of suspects...Repeat, no sign of suspects...
...And for the first time in the game the Clippers have the lead. 71 to 69. Seven to go in the Fourth here at the Staples Centre...
Get down...
...Three thirteen left on the clock. Dunleavy calls a time out and it's the Clippers by one...
...Buckle up your seat belts Clippers fans. This game really is too close to call...
...This is 1 David 16...Silver Impala headed South on Broadway and Pico...Couldn't get a look at her license plates...Appears to be only one occupant...
...1 David 16...why don't you check her out...
...This is 1 David 16...We lost the suspect somewhere between Broadway and Grand...Possible evasive action...Request airship and additional units... 9/24/10
...1 David 11...suspect headed West on Pico...
All units...pursuit in progress...silver Impala...Headed North on Figueroa...
Thornton pulls up from behind the arc, misses. Rebound New York. One eighteen to play...
...Thirty seconds remaining and all the Knicks have to do is run out the clock...
...Gordon back to Davis...Davis for three...This is unbelievable!...
...What a remarkable comeback...Outplayed for most of the game, the Clippers have shown incredible resilience...
...This is a whole new thing. He taps the fender any faster than fifty not only will she roll, she'll roll all the way to Baja.
A high risk stunt like that's worth at least a thousand five.
They won't go higher than a thousand.
Done.
Sorry, that's for the director...
I managed to get them up to five hundred.
Nice work, officer...
Here you go, Mr. Rose.  Egg rolls, chicken chow mein, five flavor shrimp and Peking duck.
Did they remember the chop sticks?
Doesn't look like it, sir. Let me run and get the guy.
...You run a perfectly good business. Why would you want to change now?
You know how much my business made last year? Thirty Grand. Takes me six months to build a car and a couple of seconds for these jerks to write it off on a stunt that doesn't even make it into the movie.
How much do you need?
Let me talk you through it first.
That sounds like a lot.
Doesn't have to be. The big money teams burn through three, four million a year but that's `cause they're using half a dozen test drivers and a stable of cars.
I don't know anything about car racing but I assume there's a reason for that?
Sure, but it's not the only way. All I need is a hard-used stock car. We start off with the small-town action then work our way up. There's close to two thousand events out there and once we make the Show we're talking millions.
`Millions'?
There's a fortune to be made. Sponsorship. TV deals. We'll even name the team after you.
Thank you, Ron. You sure you don't want any of this?
No, thanks.
You still haven't given me a number?
Four hundred and thirty thousand dollars.
Look, I wouldn't come to you unless I was sure about this.
Come on, Shannon. How can you be sure? What have you got these big money teams don't have?
I got a driver.
And they got half a dozen Drivers you told me.
Not like this one.
I been working with this guy a long time - I've never seen anything like it. I had the money I'd back him myself...
But you don't have the money.
Everything I own is in metal. I had to sell my Bullit car the other day just to pay the gas bill. I'm telling you, Bernie, put this kid behind a wheel there's nothing he can't do.
And what happens to my money if this kid gets hit by a bus?
What are you doing eating Chink food in my restaurant?
What's a Jew doing running a Pizzeria? Worst fucking pizza in LA by the way. How hard is it to bake a loaf of bread?
It's the fucking water in this city...
I thought you were supposed to be out of town anyway?
Well, I'm back.  Take a hike. I need to talk to my partner.
Be polite, Nino. I invited him here.
Oh, I'm sorry. How you doing, Shannon? How's the fucking leg?
I'll think about it but I want to meet your guy first...
Hi...
Which floor, ma'am?...
Fourth please...
Thank you...
Goodbye...
Goodbye, ma'am...
Looks like a chocolate bar. You're gonna have to tell me if that's fast or slow `cause I got no idea...
It ain't slow... 9/24/10
 Maybe where you come from...
Looks a little long in the tooth to me. Think we should take her home?...
Bernie, this is the driver I been telling you about...
Bernie's thinking of investing in our race team...
My hands are a little dirty.
Don't worry. So are mine...
You might wanna take a look at the suspension before we go again.  Nice to meet you...
You too...
You gonna give me the four?
I'll give you three for seventy percent...
Where do you want me to put them?
Just over there. Thanks...
Would you like something to drink?
I'm okay.
A glass of water?
Sure...
Excuse me a second...
You just move to LA?
No, I been here a while.
And before that?
Here and there...
 Too many questions, huh?...
That's Benicio's father.
What's he do?
He's in jail.
I'm sorry.
 What do you do?
I drive.
Like a limo driver?
No, for the movies...
 You mean all those car chases and stuff?
Isn't that dangerous?
It's just part-time. Most days I work in a garage.
Where?
Reseda Boulevard.
You should tell Benicio you're a stunt guy.
He interested in that kind of stuff?
Aren't all little boys?
Mama, I don't like this...
Would you like another glass?
I should get going...
Well, thank you for your help.
Thank you for the drink...
You're Shannon's buddy, right? We met last year. You drove me and my brother back from Palm Springs...
Next run we hired another wheelman - I spent six months in jail, my brother got himself killed...  He wasn't much, mind you, just family...
Thing is -
I'm not interested...
Well, it's good to see you again...
Sounds like a goddamn M-16...
Gorgeous day just got even nicer. How can I help you, ma'am?
I can imagine. That thing must be older than I am...
Hi...
Hi...
You boys and girls know each other?
We're neighbors.
I see...
So what seems to be the problem, ma'am?
Either it doesn't start or it stalls.
Well, why don't we park her over there and take a look...
I can come back later if you're busy...
He's busy, I'm not...
...Just my opinion, but I think you should consider buying a new car...
 That would be great...
That thing doesn't work.
 You think?
Drive it.
Okay. Get in the car...
Mama, can I go in the car?!
Your mom said you like movies?
Sometimes.
Ever see the Terminator?
No.
Grease?
Wanna see where it was shot?
How long has he been working for you?
Don't worry, ma'am, your son'll be fine.
I didn't mean it like that...
We been together about five years now. He showed up out of the blue one day, no references or nothin', asking me for a job. I offered him half the wages I normally pay and he didn't even blink. Been exploiting him ever since...  Only thing he knows is cars...
Thank you for today. He had a great time...
I'm glad...
I'm sorry if I put you on the spot, you know, just showing up like that...
Don't worry...
You need a ride anywhere over the weekend I'm not doing much...
...I still can't believe I bought this piece of shit...
I thought maybe we'd take her for a run Thursday or Friday.
I can't make Friday.
Yeah? Why's that?
I told Irene I'd drive her to Burbank.
Irene, huh?  You're seeing quite a lot of the young lady.
You're taking a long time to fix her car...
What's happening now?
He's telling him if he doesn't leave the earth alone he'll fight him.
I'm almost ready...
Looks like he's in trouble.
He's okay.
I'm gonna show you another trick...
This is pretty complicated. You watching?
Think you can remember that?...
Hello?...Yes?...Yes, this is she...
Hi...
Hello...
Hi Cindy...
It's 8:30. Teeth. Pyjamas. TV off.
It's not the TV. It's a DVD...
I've never come this way before...
It's a short cut...
The park looks pretty at night...
You okay?...
That was my husband's lawyer on the phone. He's getting an early release...
That's great...
I'm happy for Benicio...
...I'm touched and grateful that you're all here today -- even though I know it's probably for the food not me...
...Anyhow, now that I've completed my MBA in catering from Chino Business School...  Irene, Benicio and I are finally going to get our lives back together...
I'd like to thank my wife for being the smartest, most beautiful, most patient and loyal woman I know...
I'm sorry, I can't hear you...
Sure.
Benicio wants you to put him to bed.
Okay.
Who was that on the phone?
My parole officer. He thinks he may have found me a job.
Hey...
I'm sorry about the noise. I was going to leave a note under your door warning you we were having a party.
Don't worry. I won't complain.
I wish you would. Maybe the cops'd show up and send everybody home.
The car works great by the way. Hasn't stalled once.
I'm glad.
Listen, if you're hungry we got plenty of FOOD -
I thought if we emptied the trash everyone would get the message and go home...
You're the new neighbor, right? Benicio's told me all about you...
He's a great kid.
I can't take any of the credit. He's got a great mother.
He tells me you drive for the movies?
Yeah.
Must be pretty good?
I get by.
Not like a nine to five gig, huh?...
You want me to take that?
No, we got it.
You want to come in, join us for a drink?
I've got some things to do.
At this hour of night?
Standard, he's busy...
Well, if we're still going by the time you're back you know where we are. It's good to meet you...
...We paid three hundred fucking grand for this?
I paid for it. Out of my own pocket. Anyway, that's just the shell. You start with the shell, then you build the frame, then the motor.  I paid three hundred for that. The money goes on the inside not the outside.
Fuck that. If I'm gonna blow three hundred I wanna make sure everyone can see it. Go waste your money on something else...
 ...How about that fucking pussy mobile over there.
You buy it. Shannon sell him the car...
Try her out. She's more comfortable than a water bed.
I already got a fucking water bed.
What does this fucking thing do?
Windshield wipers.
How about this little clit? I don't know whether to fuck it or drive it. Fuck it, I'll drive it...
So, when's our first race?
Soon.
You gonna be ready?
I hope so...
Cautious man. Like myself. Don't wanna make promises you can't keep...
He ever tell you how we met?
I did some producing back in the 80's. Interesting pictures. Kind of European. Shannon arranged the cars for us and did all the stunts. I knew he was overcharging me but I loved having him around. His next business venture he tried the same thing with some of Nino's friends they broke his spine. He never had much luck...
Hey!...
You got a minute? I want to -
We're talking...
I'll wait outside...
The reason I'm telling you this is because he's got a lot invested in you. So do I...
Anything you need just let me know...
Irene told me you'd fixed our car. How much do I owe you?
Don't worry about it.
I do worry. I like to pay my debts.
Call it fifty.
I was thinking of trading her in for a new car. Something fast and cheap.
You can't have both.
Alright then, fast.
 Something like that Buick over there'll cost you nine grand but there isn't much point in a city where you can't drive faster than sixty five.
You must think I'm an asshole?
I wouldn't know.
Well, I am. Six months inside for holding somebody else's stolen shit...
I appreciate what you did for my family when I was away but I don't plan to fuck up a second time...
Hey, kid! Come say goodbye, the money people are leaving!...
Excuse me.
See you around...
Who was that?
Irene's husband.
 What did I tell you about married women?
What the fuck do you know about married women?
Can you for once say something without the word fuck in it?
Hi...
Hi...
We haven't seen you around in a while. You must have been pretty busy?...
You look pretty busy yourself...
What can I get you?
I already ate. I just wanted to see how you were?
We're okay. Standard thinks he may have found a job so I can give up my night shift...
Benicio misses you...
He keeps asking me to invite you for dinner...
I'd like that...
I better serve some food...
Can you move?
Where's Benicio?
He's right here...
It's okay, Benicio. I'm okay...
 Don't say anything to your mother, you understand? This is between you and me.
Can I use your bathroom to clean up? I don't want Irene to come home and see me like this...
Thanks. Sorry about getting all this blood everywhere...
Fucking punks took me by surprise...
Fucking punks didn't look like they needed to...
You saw them, huh?...
You ever been inside?
Why?
I owed some protection money in the joint.
How much?
They want twenty thousand. I told them I couldn't pay so they want me to do a job for them...
Is that why you need a car?
What did you say you were inside for?
I didn't.
It's a pawn shop in the valley. I tried to back out tonight, they said they'd come after Irene and Benicio next time...
Why don't you take them away?
Where would I go? Irene finds out I fucked up again I'll lose everything...
This lousy job's my only way out...
You okay?
You want something to drink?
What have you got there?...
Who gave you that?...
One of those men. He told me not to lose it...
I've got you to do this fucking job for me, why do I need to pay someone else?
I'll pay him out of what's left of my share. I can't do something like this on my own.
You got Blanche...
You look like you're hard to work with?
Not if we understand each other.
What's to understand? It's my score. Either you sign on or you don't.
I drive. That's all I do.
Where are you going?
They've forgotten my Coke.
They'll bring it. Sit down.  Standard, why don't you hire a fucking taxi cab?
He didn't mean it like that, man...
So, what does he mean?
You tell me where we start, where we're headed, where we'll be going afterwards. I don't take part, I don't carry weapons, I drive...
Standard, get Blanche her coca cola.
Okay, here's the deal. This much for Blanche, this much for that asshole minus what he owes me, and this much for you...
You still interested?
Good. Anything else?...
We do this job he's paid his debt. You leave him and his family alone...
Whatever you say, boss...
...I was such a jerk the first time we met. We're at this party and I see the most beautiful girl I ever laid eyes on and I walk over and say, `Hello Miss, my name's Standard Guzman'. She takes one look at me and asks, `Where's the deluxe version?'...  It took me like a minute to get it...
You don't get it either do you, Benicio? Hope you didn't inherit your Papa's brains.
Would you like some more chicken?
Thanks...
Now this is what I call a deluxe chicken. Irene and I are gonna open a restaurant together once I raise the money. That's why she's working in that Mexican joint. Figure out how it's done. She's got more ambition than anyone I know, more smarts too...  We're gonna drive all those fucking Mexicans out of business -
STANDARD -
Excuse my language, Benicio...
 How's the movie going?...
Fine...
Don't you think that's enough?
Come on, we're celebrating. I've got my family around me and our new friend...
Are you working on anything else?
Stop asking the poor guy all these QUESTIONS -
 Then why don't you go ahead and talk for all of us.
All right, I will. This time next week I'm gonna take you and Benicio away with me...
Where you wanna go, Benicio?...
Disneyland.
Forget Disneyland. I'm gonna take you and your mother away from this bullshit city -
Benicio, it's time for bed -
Your papa's got it all figured out -
Benicio, you heard me -
It's okay. I'll take him...
I'm sorry.
Don't worry...
Every time he makes that speech about taking me and Benicio away from here he's in some kind of trouble...
You don't have to do this.
 What are you talking about?
Irene and Benicio think the world of you, you know that, right?...
Say something happens to me, you think you could find a way to take care of them?...
It's not too late...
I gotta do this for them...
You got five minutes...
 I'll see you in four...
...Christ, there wasn't supposed to be this much money!...
Move for Chrissakes!...
How much did Cook tell you you could expect to net?
Forty Grand...
Stay here. Don't answer the door...
Benicio?...
Is your mom there?...
Tell her I'll call later...
...The armed robber was pronounced dead at the scene. He was identified as Standard Guzman of Echo Park, Los Angeles...
...Other details are unclear but the owner of the pawn shop told reporters that the robber had no accomplices and that the items he'd taken had been recovered. In other news...
The guy saw you grab the money and jump in the car -- why didn't he say anything?
I've no idea.
Any idea there'd be another car waiting?
I already told you everything -
You just got a little kid's father killed. You think I won't hurt you?
...Cook told me another car would hold us up...but he never said anything about this much money or anyone getting killed...
You were gonna rip us off and split the take?
How long have you known him?
Just a couple months. We were fooling around. I've never been mixed up in anything like this -
You know his real name?
He told me it was Chris, but I just called him Cook.
You're going to take me to him right now, you understand?
....Can I go wash up?...
Why didn't you tell me?...
Well, I guess it's done now...
How big's the take?...
Jesus...
You better bring it over.
I'll take care of it...
...Looks like you got more metal inside you than a ten ton truck...  You'd be better off with a mechanic not a medic...
Relax. Just having my fun with you...
Take a hit off that. Chances are you'll need it...
What did you do with the cash?
It's safe.
You want me to look after it for you?
Just think what we could do with all that DOUGH -
Two guys just tried to kill me for it. I want to find out who it belongs to first...
This guy Cook got a real name?...
Maybe Chris. Probably not...
I'll ask Bernie if he's heard of him...
I wish you'd talked to me first...
Lotta guys fall for other mens' wives, but you're the only one I know robs a joint to make it up to the husband...
You want some coffee?
No, thanks...
They've been going at it ever since they moved in. She's such a nice lady but it's a lousy Shidach. It's a wonder they haven't killed each other...  So, what's your interest in the Seventh Heaven?
It's a strip joint on La Cienega. Your friend Cook runs it. Why're you curious about him all of a sudden?
A friend of mine owes him some money. I was wondering if you knew him?
Yeah, I know him. He's a crazy Albanian. If I were your friend I'd pay up.
You wake me up this early this friend must be a close friend?
 Yeah...
How's our car by the way?
We're all set for next month.
And our driver?
He's doing great.
That's what you should worry about...
You want my advice? Let your friend work it out for himself. Don't take pills for other people's headaches...  You got twenty minutes? I need you to run down to the market and get me some milk...
Cook moved office again?
That one over there...
It's open...
It's open, goddamit!...
Should've figured you for a shill. Who were you fronting for?
Fuck you -
Whose money am I holding?
Don't worry. They'll come get it. You don't know who you're fucking with -
Who's money am I holding?
 Fuck you...
Hello?...I'm afraid we're closed. Could you call back after twelve...
I could, but your boss won't be happy when he finds out you've kept him waiting...
Can I ask what this is about?
I have something that belongs to him.
And that would be?
A million dollars...
You have something that fucking belongs to me?...
Seems that way...
And you're calling me why? You expect me to buy my fucking stuff back from you?...
I'm not selling. I give you a time and place, you come collect your stuff...
And what do you get out of it?...
Just that. Out of it. You put a muzzle on Cook, forget your zombies at the Motel, forget we ever had this conversation...
Your partners happy with that?...
I don't have partners...
You discuss this with anyone else?
Just you...
You're not very good at this, are you?...
This isn't what I do. I'll call again with instructions...
...I'll be back before you go to bed. How's that sound?...
Are you going to be okay?
We'll be fine...
You got a minute?...
Where have you been?...
I tried to reach you. Standard's been -
I know...
Hey...
Hey...
I'm sorry about your father...
I can't talk now. I have to go.
Can I give you a ride?
The car's working fine.
Then let me walk you down...
 Why?...
He was into one of the prison gangs for a lot of money. He was trying to protect you.
Great job...
I still have the money. Whatever you need -
What are you, a bank? I work for a living. I don't need your widow's pension!
Just tell me one thing. How did he talk you into it?
He didn't talk me into anything. I've been doing this my whole life. It's what I do...
Stupid me...
Sorry, I'm supposed to be going down...
So are we...
Which floor?
Parking lot, please...
I'm leaving. I want you to come with me...
What are you talking about?
You and Benicio...
You're crazy. I don't even know you -
You will. Once I straighten out this thing I'm getting out for good. We'll go some place. Anywhere you want.
It doesn't work like that.
Why not?...
Because people like you never get out. And I don't want my son to grow up like that...
What happened?
Nino's guys came after me. How did they know about Irene?
I called Bernie...I asked if he could help. Him and Nino are like brothers. I told him you weren't interested in the money, that you only did it for the girl...  I wanted to make sure once you returned the money that was the end of it...
Let me talk to Bernie again. They probably didn't listen to him -
It's too late...
They're gonna come after you to find me. You have to leave...
What are you gonna do?...
How the fuck did this happen? We're supposed be in Charlotte or Daytona drinking champagne out of trophies and getting laid by pit lizards...
Fuck...
...I already gave you my advice. You should have taken your money and left this guy alone.
It's not that simple, Bernie.
Not now that it's bounced up in your face.
Mr. Paolozzi, I owe you this guy. Just give me the okay and I'll -
You like taking orders, go shut the blinds.
Sun's in my eyes...
...The money belonged to a half assed wiseguy from Philly. I had a tip-off he was keeping a million in a pawn shop and was gonna invest it here in LA, try to run a rival operation. I wanted to teach him a lesson...
 You stole from the East Coast mob?
I stole from a jumped up punk who was gonna step on our business -
And where did this punk find a million dollars? You ever consider he may have consulted some higher-ups? You even bother to check? -
I don't give a fuck who gave him their blessing. This is my city -
Your city? This is a big city, pal, and last time I checked we were partners! -
We are partners -
Then why the fuck didn't you come to me before you set up your dummy robbery or hired this fucking amateur?!...
This was off to the side, Bernie. I didn't wanna involve you.
Well, now you fucked up I am involved. Anyone finds out you stole from the family they'll kill both of us -
What family? These fucks still call me a kike to my face. I'm fifty nine years old, they pinch my cheek, treat me like a fuckin' kid. They're the reason we left New York in the first place. Decrepit old men waving us over to their dinner and domino tables to complain.
Those old men gave us the funds to move out here.
And I made them a lotta money. I made you a lotta money too...
I pay them half of everything I fucking earn and then they set up some fucking kid from Philadelphia just because he's a fucking wop!
The money always flows up, Izzy. You know that.
That's why this driver has to go. Him, and maybe your friend Shannon, are the only two people who can tie me to the robbery.
What about this prick?
Mr. Paolozzi -
Shut up...
Are you asking my permission?
I'm asking for your help. I shoulda' come to you first, Bernie. I know that. We're a team.
I'll pay you back the three hundred you spent on the race car.
It's not about the money...
All right...
 Pass the salt...
Your turn to clean up after me...
All these priceless cars, you should get better locks...
Door's always open to you...
Going somewhere?
Thinking about it.
I'm looking for your driver.
You break in like this I figure it's bad news.
It's bad luck. Two thousand heists in this city a year, he had to pick the wrong one.
He tried to put it right.
Picked the wrong guy for that too. My partner's a belligerent asshole with his back against the wall...
Right now so am I. I don't take care of this I'm in big trouble...
Any idea where he is?
Probably across the border by now. Mexico. Belize. That's where I'd go...
He just walked out on you after everything you've done for him, took all the money?
That's gratitude, I guess.
I ever tell you how long Izzy and I been friends? Since we were six. Only Jews in a neighborhood of wops. Long as I can remember he was getting me into trouble and I was getting him out of scrapes...
Anyone else I'd take your side...
Anyone else I'd do the same...
What's this fucking kid to you anyway?
I leave here without finding out where he is, there'll be others coming after me. I guarantee they'll be too stupid to figure out you won't talk and drag this out unnecessarily...
Then I'm glad you got here first...
You know, it's too bad, I was getting excited about our race team, having my name all over the car. I think we could have made something of this business...
Nah, I'd have fucked it up too...
You won't feel a thing. Close your eyes and you'll fall asleep...
9/24/10
Yeah?
Bernie Rose, next apartment over -
Yeah, I know. I'm kind of busy here.
I heard...
You all right, Shonda?
Get the hell out of my -
What's your fucking name?
LENNY -
I'm a patient man, Lenny, not much for getting in other people's way. What I figure is, we've all got our own lives, right? And the right to be left alone?  So I sit next door for almost a year now listening to what goes down in here and I keep thinking, hey, they'll work it out. You gonna work it out, Lenny?
You're lucky to have her, lucky she's put up with you this long. Lucky I've put up with you. She has good reason: she loves you. I don't have any reason at all. So stop raising your voice or fucking move...
Alright honey, I'll pick you up in an hour.
We're closed...
 I'm going to pick up my wife. I'll meet you there...
...Sure, Carlo, I'll send him your regards...
...Nice talking to you too...  Asshole...
...Bernie, it's me...
9/24/10
...Look, about that thing today...I'm sorry. I know how much you liked the guy...
Bernie?...
Yeah?...
You're the only fucking person in the world I trust. I love you, man...
When this is over I'll make it up to you, I swear...
How many times I heard that before... 9/24/10
I lost count -
It was Bernie...Bernie Rose killed your friend not me...
Nino?
Looks like me, you and your girlfriend are the only pieces left on the board...
I'd say this has gone far enough. See any reason why it should go on?...
Doesn't have to...
Then we should talk. You know a place called the Great Wall -- out on Sherman Way?
Care for a glass?...
I can recommend the duck. Hell, I can recommend everything -- Walnut prawns, shredded beef, Velvet chicken -- but the duck's to die for...
The duck, please. For two.
Anything else?
No, thanks...
You've been on a roll. Cut yourself quite a swath out there.
I never asked for any of it.
We usually don't. But it comes down on our heads regardless. Look at Shannon...
Anyway it's water under the bridge now. Question is where does that leave us?
That's up to you.
You bring the cash?
Tell me something, how does someone with no interest in money get mixed up in a heist?  Shannon told me it was because of the girl?
Don't worry. Nobody else knows about her. Just me...  You still see her?...
She's not interested.
She's got her head screwed on right. I got two ex-wives, three kids, four grandchildren. Not one of them speaks to me now...
This is what I'll do for you. You give me the money, nobody knows she exists. But it's a different matter with you. 
Sounds like we have a problem...
And just when we were getting to know each other...
...We shake hands, say goodbye, it's the start of your new life. Sooner or later they'll come after you. No end to it. Someone gets tired, somebody else takes their place. It goes on and on. Whatever dreams you have, whatever plans, you might as well forget `em, because this is what it's gonna be like till the day you die...  I just thought you should know...
What do you suggest I do?
First time I heard about you, Shannon told me you drove. Fast. That's a start...
Either that or you choke on the duck...
How much does something like this cost?
Nine, ten thousand. If you can find one that still runs.
Maybe I'll take yours. Part of our deal.
Guess we won't be seeing each other again..
 Hello?...
It's me...
You got a pen? I need you to write something down...
...JJT 108...
It's the license number for my car. I've left it in a parking lot on the corner of Culver and Lincoln. Section M 10...
What do you want me to do with it?...
It's yours. It's safe to keep it...
I told you, I don't need your money...
Are you okay?...
Just out of breath...
How're you doing?...
Fine. I'm in the park with Benicio...
I gotta go Irene...
Meeting you was the best thing that ever happened to me...
It was nice to meet you too...
