GORDON NGUBENE, a 47-years-old African laborer is work- ing in the school garden. A few feet away is his 15- years-old son JONATHAN leaning against a wall watching the games. BEN DU TOIT, a 50-year-old Afrikaaner history teacher, is enthusiastically cheering his son JOHAN, a 15-years-old, who is leading neck-and-neck with another boy in the last leg of the race. The excitement increases as they approach the tape. Ben is beside himself, egging his son with shouts. The young teacher, VIVIERS, standing next to Ben, is shouting "come on Johan," and slapping the father on the back. Johan breasts the tape just ahead of the other boy. The ground is invaded by boys running to congratulate Johan. Ben hurries towards his happy but exhausted son; the proud father pushing his way through the animated boys. As he reaches Johan he pats him on the back. BEN This was your best race. JOHAN  I beat him, Papa.
 You did son. Come on, shower.
I'll be expecting you. There isn't much to do, only weeding the marigolds and watering the lawn and flowers.
GORDON We'll be there, Mr. Ben'sir, Jonathan come to help me. Ben hadn't seen Jonathan.    He turns to him.
And how's the algebra?   Still giving you trouble? JONATHAN  Just a little, Mr. Ben'sir. JOHAN Me too.
 He's working hard, Mr. Ben'sir, and your money will not be wasted. Emily and me will always thank you.
 See you both later. Gordon returns to his work a little distance further. A group of students are laughing and pushing each other boisterously. As they near Jonathan, two nudge each other and giggle. Then, one of them trips Jonathan. He falls to the ground and jumps up aggressively, about to attack the boy. Gordon shouts "Jonathan." The headmaster, MRS. CLOETE, aged 65 years, has observed the incident, but takes no action.
 U ya phi? 
TITLES.
Men sit drinking African beer in one-half and one gallon plastics containers. The place buzzes with noise. Several people are touting wares for sale. Suddenly a group of about twenty youths walks into the drinking area, obviously to cause trouble. The LEADER starts to address the clients.
Your children are starving and you are drinking. We demand freedom and our fathers are drunk. We ask you to boycott these beer halls. Revolution and drink don't work together!
The sergeant reads out a name and    looks at Stolz; if he nods the boy stands aside. After     this ritual, the ones that Stolz has chosen are marched    to a waiting police van and driven away. The others are     taken to the cells at the police station, these include    Jonathan and Wellington.
He won't come to church. He lies in bed all day, listening to his headphones.
I wondered why he wasn't at school. Would it help if I came to see him? He's always seemed a good kid to me. MRS. COETZEE Oh, would you? BEN Of course. I'll phone and we can fix a time.
Ben!   Ben!
She rocks it back and forth, holding it at arm's length. The BABY SCREAMS. The nanny comes forward -- Suzette hands it over. SUSAN Mrs. Coetzee.    She looked worried.
She's having trouble with her boy. He won't come to school.
So you said you'd have a word with him?
Yes! She smiles and walks him to the car affectionately. The Du Toit family.
Gordon!   What are you doing here?
That's not why I'm complaining, Mister Ben, sir. If he did wrong, I'd beat him myself. But he didn't.
GORDON He did nothing and they wouldn't listen. They wouldn't believe him. BEN I'm sorry, Gordon.    But there must be a reason. GORDON He says he wasn't doing anything wrong, Mister Ben, sir. And I believe him, I know my son! It's an injustice!
What about the court?    Didn't he state his case? GORDON What does he know about court? Before he knew, it was all over. BEN I don't think there is anything we can do about it now. Outside, peering     through the half-opened door, is Johan, shocked at what     he sees. Ben tapes Jonathan on the head, he pulls up his     shorts painfully, yet fiercely, anxious to cover himself     up again. GORDON We can get a lawyer to appeal. BEN A lawyer? That won't heal Jonathan's buttocks. Susan appears at the door.
Ben! BEN I'll be out in a minute.
You don't understand, Mister Ben, sir. I don't want him to have a police record. 
GORDON It will be there for  the rest of his life and make it  difficult for him to get a job in  the future. BEN Don't worry, Gordon. I'm sure there'll be no record, it's such a minor case. Please don't worry. Ben calls Johan from the outside.
Johan, get some iodine from the cupboard.
I'm not worried about the wounds. They'll heal in time, Mister Ben, sir. It's the wounds here.  I worry about. Injustice... it festers. Johan comes back with a small bottle of medicine. BEN  Rub it on the wounds and it will help. Ben watches   the black man and his son trudge down the long drive,   the father's arm on the son's shouldre. At the foot of   the drive the nose of an exotic Soweto cab can be seen   waiting... a large butterfly painted on the hood.
Trouble? BEN Jonathan has been caned, by the police. She places the boerwors and the beer before him.
SUSAN He probably deserved it.
There are two other banners being carried around the school yard, followed by the younger children. They read: "No to the Oppressor's language" "Bantu education is slave education." A BOY, one of the eldest, aged about 18 years calls for silence. The STUDENTS immediately obey. STUDENT LEADER You all know why we are going to march. The crowd shouts: STUDENTS 'No to Bantu education' 'No to apartheid' 'Freedom Now'... STUDENT LEADER There must be discipline. We start marching from here and we'll join up with the others at the main road. Please take care of the younger ones. Let's go. The Students start marching led by one of the banners, singing a freedom song.
Examples:    "EQUAL EDUCATION NOW" "ONE MAN ONE VOTE" "FREE OUT LEADERS" "NO TO THE AFRIKAANS LANGUAGE" There are chants of slogans as they march:
'If we learn Afrikaans vorster must learn Zulu.' 'Bantu education! Stinks! Stinks! Stinks!' 'Equal education! Now! Now! Now!' They also start singing a freedom song.
The Soweto   police COMMANDANT steps forward with a loud- speaker in   hand.  He confronts the lead of the march. He signals for   them to stop. The dogs are straining at their leashes and   their handlers taunt the leading group. COMMANDANT Now listen to me, this is an illegal demonstration. I order you to disperse immediately.
Children of 8, 9, 10 years singing lustily with their fists clenched as everyone else. Jonathan and Wellington singing.
COMMANDANT This is the last warning. Disperse immediately or I will take action. A voice in the crowd shouts "Banutu education..."
Without warning, SHOOTING STARTS. Children drop, wounded; friends trying to help the dying and seriously wounded, others helped away.
Shoot me!   Come on, shoot me! Shoot me! 
She slumps to the ground crying.
LARGE WOMAN (to man in front of her) Careful with your bag. Can't you see where it's touching?
 Can I see where it's touching?
Men of today only like looking. Laughter in the carriage.    Gordon is also enjoying the joke.
 It's the electricity. MAN IN KHAKI UNIFORM What has electricity to do with it? A few voices also ask same question. MAN #2 Today with the electricity they say: (in an affected voice) 'Darling let's not switch off the light.' Laughter and voice saying "that's true."
 I hope you have electricity with those thick glasses of yours. With your eyes you couldn't find anything.
Tell us, does your wife also wear thick glasses?
 You should know, she's your sister. 
There is more laughter.
There are snatches of conversation such as:
"I hope the children are home."
 Are you sure it was Jonathan they took away? The girl glances at her father.    He coaxes her to talk. GIRL Yes, baba, with Wellington. Black parents, waiting. At the counter with Gordon, a large black man, STANLEY, a friend -- his big easy smile is working hard on a white policeman, the station SERGEANT VAN ZYL, about to run out of patience. STANLEY No, no, I understand, Baas, but is that all the names? There's no other list somewhere?
But, what about John Voster Square? 
SERGEANT VAN ZYL Look, I've tried to help you.
Thank you.
You're here too, sis Paulina, who are you looking for?
They picked up my girl -- 13-year- old girl!
 We are all searching. The policeman calls her -- she hurries to the counter. CUT TO:
The crowd parts to let them through.    Other women reach out to touch her.
You're a lawyer, Julius! STANLEY  A black lawyer! Those Boers... the bastards'll kick him around till they lose him.
What about the Baas? If he asks, they will give him an answer.
 When the boy was flogged he didn't help. Why should he help him now?
Sounds of BEN and JOHAN LAUGHING coming from inside.
Hi, Gordon. No response.   Ben does a double-take and stops playing. BEN  Hold it, champ. He crosses the yard to Gordon, fluffing his hair dry, Johan follows behind.
Gordon, you okay? No response again. Gordon continues to work.     Ben and Johan exchange puzzled looks. JOHAN Isn't this Jonathan's day to help you? BEN How is he, recovering?
I don't know, Mister Ben, sir -- the police took him. BEN Again?
What for?
GORDON They arrested many. They even deny they've got him. He's disappeared... BEN Disappeared? He's a child -- why didn't you tell me? Gordon just looks at him, sadly, patiently.
Okay!   I'll see what I can find out.
Our gardener, yes. Probably nothing, but he's worried. Sumptuous lawyer's offices, Johannesburg. They're lush- carpeted. A black woman cleaner is finishing off her early-morning chores, packing up as white staff are be- ginning to arrive. They're fresh, shining, attractive -- whipping the covers off typewriters. A young black girl, smart, well-groomed, is carrying a tray of coffee, desk to desk. FOLLOW her as she approaches her employer's open office door.
... And when was this?
Ngubene -- Jonathan Ngubene.
EMPTY_LINE
LEWINSON I'll get on to them straight away... Not at all -- I think better this time of morning -- after lunch, man, I'm a zombie.  Sure -- let you know straight away -- love to, Susan... Cheers! (puts down phone; presses his intercom) Freda! Open an account... Du Toit. Benjamin Du Toit... Subject... Jonathan Ngubene. MONTAGE - SEARCH FOR JONATHAN
-- CHATTERING out -- on Lewinson's headed note paper: To the Commissioner of Police Police Headquarters John Vorster Square Dear Sir, On behalf of our client, Gordon Ngubene, we are anxious to discover the whereabouts of his son... B) INT. POLICE HQ.  - INTERROGATION ROOM
C) POLICE TYPEWRITER
Young black nurse carrying bedding -- corridor -- startled by moaning, screaming figure of black boy, being hustled on trolley into private ward. Boy is deposited on bed as policeman is posted outside. E) TYPEWRITER
confronted by Gordon and Emily. She shakes her head vigorously, denying all knowledge, shows them the door. F) FINALLY: Dear Sirs, With reference to your enquiry seeking the whereabouts of Jonathan Ngubene, we are sorry to inform you we have no record of anyone of that name... I) HOSPITAL - WHITE SUPERINTENDENT FACING JULIUS
It's preposterous. I would have known -- of such a case... I mean... in my hospital. You people! You're always raking up trouble! J) STANLEY
... Freda -- I said no calls... Oh... Right... put them through. Hallo! Yes! How are you?... that is correct.
Very well. Thank you for finally letting us know. He replaces the receiver... looks at it for a long second ... before lifting his eyes to the client.
 Sorry. He dials a number. Tea break for the teachers, Ben       among them. He is enjoy- ing a laugh with his colleagues       -- maybe in Afrikaans -- we should hear the language here       where we need not com- prehend. An African serves the        tea. There's a KNOCK -- a monitor comes in and talks to Ben who follows him outside. Ben at the phone.
Hello, Dan... No... it's all right...
I'm sorry. They have just officially informed me. The boy was never in detention. He died ... the day of the riots and as nobody came to claim the corpse he was buried a month ago.
BEN Thanks a lot, Dan... I'll tell Gordon. 'Bye. Ben hangs up and stays there... thinking... until the BELL snaps him out of his thoughts.
A VOICE overlays all this... strange... ironically African. GORDON Mister Ben, sir. If it was me, all right. And if it was Emily, all right. We are not young. But he's out child. My time and your time, it's passing. But the time of our children is coming. And now if they kill our children -- if we let them -- what is it that we lived for? BEN (places a hand on Gordon's shoulder -- comforting) What can we do, Gordon? You or I... We can't change it. GORDON That day, Mr. Ben, sir, when they whipped Jonathan, you also said we can do nothing. But if we had... if someone heard what we had to say this would not have happened.
It's a terrible thing, Gordon -- God knows I'm sorry. But you have other children to live for... I'll help them too with their schooling. 
GORDON  How did he die, Mister Ben, sir? BEN I told you, Gordon... He died on the day of the riots.
That's what  they say. But I got to know for  certain. How can I have peace?   I must know how my son died and  where they buried him.
Gordon.   The police -- if they've said... GORDON I don't care what they say. He is my child. God is my witness today: I cannot stop before I know what happened and where he lies. His body belongs to Emily and me. And drives away -- chugging across the field... leaving Ben -- helpless -- behind him -- watching. From his: OFFICE WINDOW
... This business of Gordon's son. Be careful, Ben. These are not normal times -- one has to make allowances.
BEN Don't worry! I'm no crusader. I've known Gordon a long time, that's all. CLOETE I understand -- it's your Christian duty to your neighbor. BEN Something like that -- yes.
Just don't get too close. Teachers must stay out of politics. Love to Susan!
Look who's coming? It's baba! Emily turns to look. She immediately realizes that some- thing is wrong. She drops the tin and walks a few steps toward the gate.
Oh, no... oh no, Lord. Gordon hurries to embrace her.
 Please don't tell me...
 Baba, I heard you're looking for Wellington. He's out, Baba.
Where is he?   Where is he? BOY He's with some boys at Dube's shop. STANLEY Thank you very much. You've worked like a man.  Let's go.
What happened... Don't tell me...
Did they do that to you? 
Wellington has a nervous arm-twitch... and nods to the question.
 I want to know what happened to Jonathan.
Isn't he out yet?  I last saw him weeks ago. STANLEY Jonathan is dead.
I have to know how he died. Sizette and   Chris with the family at dinner. Suzette is passed the   Rand Daily Mail newspaper by Chris, folded at an article   headlined: "WHAT REALLY HAPPENED TO JONATHAN NGUBENE?"    by Melanie Bruwer. SUSAN Isn't that tragic? Jonathan was such a nice boy. Even played with my Johan when they were small, God. BEN And he was such a nice boy, well- mannered. SUSAN You said he was very bright at school. Chris helps himself to more.     Suzette looks at the paper.
Well, this kind of journalism doesn't help the situation. Look at her face? What does she look like? CHRIS The Rand Daily Mail always exaggerates.
She passes the paper to Ben. He looks at Melanie's pic- ture: she looks 30 years old, long black hair, large dark eyes with a fierce, unsettling, uncompromising stare, a small nose and a generous and sensual mouth. BEN Looks quite attractive to me.
 '... Is only the latest in scores of black youths who have disappeared whilst in police custody.' CHRIS What does she expect? They're out of control. Give then an inch and they take a hundred miles. It's in their nature. The only language they understand is force. JOHAN Chris, Jonathan was fifteen, like me. Would you use force on me? CHRIS You're not a terrorist. If you were -- like an increasing number of them, you'd deserve it. Look, every time you pick up the newspaper...
 My God, one hundred shot! They didn't have to kill them. SUSAN This bloody Bruwer woman reports one hundred shot, but the radio said only twenty and the police were attacked first. SUZETTE I thought the idea was to give them their own areas, banstustans. Let them live with their own kind. No chance of conflict then. Everybody's happy. 
JOHAN And who would do the work?
Pardon?
The work, who'd do it? SUSAN You for a start. Come on!    Help me clear these dishes. As Johan stands, to clear the table. He turns to his father with a smile, and shrugs -- an irritated Suzette joins them.
'On the second day of our detention at John Vorster Square we were taken to one of the top floors. We were ordered to undress and they started to beat us with fists and sjamboks. This for a long time.'
'On one day me and Jonathan...'
GORDON '... We were asked questions for the whole day and night by Capt. Stolz and different policemen -- they never stopped. They tried to force us to say we were the leaders at our school, that we were working for the A.N.C. and got money from overseas. Capt. Stolz wanted to know the names of the students committee and where he can find Toni Mtimkulu -- Everytime they asked question, they beat us. It was bad beating.'
GORDON 'We told them we had done nothing and didn't know about all the things they are asking us; on two occasion they put a wet bag over my head and I -- couldn't breathe -- I thought I was going to die. One day I heard Jonathan being beaten. He was screaming and crying, and then a noise like tables and chairs being knocked down, and Capt. Stolz shouting "you bastard, get up, do you hear me?" Ngubene, don't pretend here, get up." Then the next day I heard he had gone to hospital and I never saw him again.' There's a long silence. Gordon closes his eyes and struggles with his grief. Emily sobs, Robert looks on in anger. Then, finally, Gordon offers a pen to Wellington, who is about to sign the foot of the state- ment, when...
LIEUTENANT VENTER Stay right where you are.
 On your feet! So, you must be Gordon Ngubene?
 Gert, in daardie kammer.  (turning to the other one) Jaimie, in die ander.  LIEUTENANT VENTER Niks, Kaptein.  STOLZ Take the bastards away.
Emily sits motionless, anger in her face.    She can hear the sound of the CARS DRIVING AWAY.
That day, Mister Ben, sir, when they whipped Jonathan, you also said we can do nothing. God as my witness today: I must know what happened and where he lies. His body belongs to Emily and me. He mutters -- more a prayer than a curse.
Jeezus -- Jeezus -- Jeezus Christ. JOHAN Good night, Papa!
Johan is entering, knocking on the half-open door. He's in his pajamas and dressing gown, ready for bed. Ben looks up at him. Johan kisses his father who suddenly clasp his son hard, clinging to him for dear life. The boy throws his arms around his dad's neck.
Oh, Papa! Susan appears at the door with a cup of coffee. She's had a bath -- her hair is wet -- and she's in her housecoat. Ben and Johan don't notice her approach.
Coffee!   Come on, Johan.   Time for bed. Johan pulls back from his father's arms.
Yes, son.   Go and get some sleep. The boy nods and leaves.
I'm proud of you, Ben... what you've done for that family. But darling, you shouldn't take these things to heart so much. What more can you do about it? BEN I don't know.    I'm just tired, I suppose. SUSAN (stroking his hair gently) Come, come to bed. Her housecoat has fallen open.       He lifts his face to hers and kisses her.
I will, in a minute. I'll just put the thoughts of Standar Six away. They mustn't be lost to posterity. 
She chuckles, satisfied, leaving him.
'... Seeking the whereabouts of a certain Jonathan Ngubene, regret to inform you we have no record of anyone of that name...'
When was the Battle of Blood River? Who was the Zulu chief who was defeated at the battle of Isanadlawana? Who was the president of the first Afrikander Republic? Give the route of the Voortrekkers from the cape? Ben walks through the aisles and from time to time oppor- tunities to glance at the window at Gordon's motionless tractor sitting in the field. He turns back   and notices a boy focusing on the ceiling. His pen in his   mouth, trying desperately to find the answers. Ben    has a smile, then crosses to him, bends down and strikes a   similar pose. The class breaks up into laughter.
 All right, time up! Hand in your test. Moans from the students.
Ben smiles and Cloete goes into the office.
What's happened, Emily? EMILY  I'm sorry, Baas... but it's Gordon. ... Stanley is waiting in his car.     His sunglasses on his nose... ... The SCHOOL BELL RINGS to give the end of the tea inter- val. Ben walks out with Emily to Stanley's car. Stanley gets out, they stare at each other. Finally Stanley breaks the silence. STANLEY  How's it? I'm Stanley! I heard about you! Ben feels a little uncomfortable. EMILY This is Stanley Makhaya... He helps us all the time. Stanley opens the door to Emily.
Don't worry too much, Emily, I'm sure Gordon will be home in a few days.
Come on, Kaffir, talk! GORDON Please, I've done nothing.   All I tried to do was to find... Stolz interrupts him with a blow to his face.    As Gordon drops his hands, the officer shouts to him.
Up with those bloody arms! STOLZ We don't like gramophone records here! Now who has been giving you informations?
Johannes!    The bag!
All right.
Stolz is supervising.
Gordon starts groaning and wriggling.
Somebody will meet you on second floor. Ben enters a lift. Gordon's still sitting on the chair, slumped -- Johannes removes the handcuffs as the Lieutenant removes the wet bag. Gordon is breathing heavily and semi-conscious.
 Come on you bloody black bastard. Who has been telling you lies?
 I'll be down immediately, Colonel. CUT TO:
Nice to meet you, Colonel Viljoen.
I used to watch you play for the Transvaal. You were one of the great wing forwards. BEN  Long time ago.
Come in.
Captain Stolz, Mr. Du Toit.
 Do sit down.
All right now, Gordon Ngubene.
BEN Well... to put it simply, Colonel...
 I'm always grateful for that.
I thought there might have been some kind of misunderstanding I could help straighten out.
Like what?
I know him, Colonel. He works at my school. He's done work for me too. VILJOEN And you feel you know him enough to vouch for him.
Yes, after so many years... 10 years. Gordon's not the type to get himself in trouble. He's an honest, hard-working, church- going man. VILJOEN Ha! You'd be surprised how many honest, decent, church-going men we come across during a working day.
It's routine, Mr. Du Toit -- a routine enquiry. Cleaning up these townships we must leave no stone unturned.
I appreciate that -- but Gordon would never... VILJOEN  Not an easy task either -- the press screaming blue murder -- especially the English.  
VILJOEN And they'll be the first to squeal if the Reds took over, make no mistake. Rushing back overseas clutching their bloody British passports. Have you any idea what will happen here if we don't follow every lead? We have a duty -- obligation. You have your job -- we have ours.
Colonel -- believe me, I'm with you all the way. But in this case -- I'm sure that in your worthy pursuit of the guilty you have, unwittingly, involved the innocent. After all, we're all human. We all make mistakes sometimes. Viljoen laughs again. VILJOEN We are indeed, Mr. Du Toit -- we are indeed. Though there's many who might need persuading as to that fact. Then... authority. VILJOEN Mr. Du Toit. While you're here, would you mind if I asked you a few questions about Ngubene? BEN  Colonel, I'd welcome it. VILJOEN Good!
Shall we start with his son? 
BEN Jonathan.
The eldest.
Yes.   He died some time ago. Viljoen doesn't react.
What do you know about Gordon's activities since Jonathan's death?
Nothing, Colonel. VILJOEN Did Gordon ever discuss the death with you?
Of course he did -- he was upset. The Colonel pauses.
But he accepted the truth? BEN He is a religious man... in the end he would have resigned himself to it.
Would have? You mean he didn't? Was he angry? Rebellious?
Come on, Colonel! If one of your kids died... (nods to family picture on desk) ... and nobody would tell you how it happened or where his body is buried, wouldn't you be upset?
We told him how his son died, Mr. Du Toit. 
Ben turns back, surprised.
You have a son, Mr. Du Toit? The Colonel looks up at him... the first sign of steel in his eyes... then back to the papers.
Does he burn and destroy -- everything he can lay his hands on?... No -- and neither does mine. That's what I can't understand... after everything the government does for them.  Think about it, Mr. Du Toit. We're for you, not against you. BEN  I've never doubted it, Colonel. It's you who appear to be doubting me. These questions.   You're making me feel like a criminal. There's a moment's pause -- then a burst of laughter. VILJOEN I'm sorry, Mr. Du Toit... I'm sorry. It's force of habit. Once a policeman, always a policeman, eh? More laughter -- Ben joins in.    Viljoen stands, signalling an end to the meeting.
... As soon as we're satisfied he's innocent, he will be released. We know what we're doing, Mr. Du Toit. You want your wife and that boy of yours to sleep safe tonight, don't you? 
Ben nods, smiles, makes for the door, turns.
One last favor, Colonel? VILJOEN Fire away!
Gordon's wife -- she's very worried. May she bring him some food and a change of clothes while he's still here? VILJOEN No problem!    Thank you for your help... BEN Thank you.    I'll rely on you, then. VILJOEN Will you find your way out?
I think so. And thanks.    I feel much happier now. VILJOEN Good! And give my regards to your father-in-law -- tell him we'll have a drink sometime -- maybe go to a game.
I will.   Goodbye.
 Is the little bird singing yet?
I'm working on it. VILJOEN Good.
I talked to them. Gordon will be released soon. The colonel was very understanding. JOHAN Did you see Gordon?
 No. JOHAN Did they say anything about Jonathan? BEN No, but... Johan, he is dead. We can't do anything for him. Don't mention this visit to your mother. Okay? Suzette and Susan in the kitchen arranging the dessert tray. The kitchen is surprisingly neat. LAUGHTER is coming from the dining room. SUZETTE What extra-mural interest?
Champion of political detainees!
SUZETTE (laughing, turns to Ben) Is that right, Papa? 
BEN That's right, Suzette. But, only one detainee: 'Gordon!' SUZETTE Our Gordon?
That's right. SUZETTE  My God. What on earth for? Susan leaves the kitchen without a word, with the dessert plates on the tray to the dining room.
SUZETTE It must be a mistake, Papa.
Of course it is. I went down there, told them. They're looking into it. SUZETTE Went down where?
John Vorster Square.
You old devil you. Does Ma know?
No. And you're not going to tell her. 
A pause.   She looks at him.
Be careful. I don't want my favorite Papa in trouble, Gordon or no Gordon.
More wine?   Viviers?
Not for me, Oom Ben. I'm drunk enough. BEN Mrs. Cloete? MRS. CLOETE Please! Ben serves her. Susan passes to fetch milk jug and sugar basin from the chine cupboard. MRS. CLOETE  Oh, I saw those sheets you liked, Sally, on sale at Bloom's. MRS. BESTER Will you be free on Wednesday afternoon? I have one or two other things to buy.
 Come in.
SUSAN  Who are you? What do you want? CUT TO:
It's all right. Viviers returns to his seat as Ben shuts the door behind him. BEN Oh, it's you... hum... Stanley, isn't it?  That's all right, darling.
CLOSE ON SUSAN
A Friday night, man! I'm no doctor, I'm not on standby all the bloody time. Can't they wait 'til Monday?
Dan! I'm standing here with Gordon's clothing in my hand. It's bloodstained... 
BEN There are broken teeth in the pocket. Monday may be too late!  The lawyer has been banned.
 Do you mean Julius Nqakula?  Too bad, he's a good lawyer. Why are you getting so involved, Ben? BEN I'm just trying to help Gordon. ... You represented many cases, tell me, does this happen often?  But Gordon's not political.  Okay, Dan, I'm sorry for disturbing your weekend. Ben replaces the phone.    Turns to Emily and Stanley. BEN He agrees to see you tomorrow and will apply to the supreme court for an interdict to stop any assaults on Gordon. And, we'll find out what's going on. STANLEY You're all right, Lanie. Ben can just hear Emily's soft voice.
Thank you, Baas. STANLEY Come on, sisi. Tomorrow it'll all be first-class again.
More coffee, anyone?
CLOETE The security police don't arrest people for nothing, Ben. Leave it alone. BEN They could make a mistake.
Blacks lead double lives. One you see and one you don't. These people surprise you all the time. VIVIERS  That's what I like about them. BEN We're not concerned with 'blacks.' We're talking about GORDON. A good man and very loyal. SUSAN (serving coffee to Cloete) And a hard worker too. CLOETE A hard worker? I had to get rid of him. Susan doesn't react.   She leaves to join the womens' group. BEN What?
I fired him a few days before he was arrested for staying away from work for days. And for the sake of the school I say good riddance.
What do you mean 'good riddance'?
I have a responsibility for the children. These are troubled times, Ben, we can't trust the natives any more. BESTER You have to be extra careful about any influences, Oom Ben. Even their churches are breeding grounds for all sorts of evil ideas.
Gordon's not subversive and definitely not a Communist.
Then he's got nothing to worry about! VIVIERS Except his three teeth. Our government mustn't allow such things to happen. After all, it's a Christian government.  What do you say, Dominee? Bester doesn't answer.
 I'm not talking about the government! I believe in our government, damn it... His sharp tone surprises everybody.    He quiets.
... Look, I know the police often know more than we do. I'm not questioning that. I'm as loyal as the next man. But I do know Gordon Ngubene... there is something wrong.
 Anything else, Papa? 
Ben starts pouring, and offers the first glass to Bester.
Dominee? Bester shakes his hand.
Nee Dankie. Ben hands the glass to Viviers.
Oom, Ben, may your problems be small ones! Gordon is undoing his trousers. Venter roughly drops the trousers and pushing him to the floor. He handcuffs him while Johannes pulls off the trousers and underpants, and manacles his ankles. Johannes fetches a rod. Venter goes to a cupboard, pulls out two electric wires with electrodes attachments and places them on the desk. All the preparation is done with practiced efficiency. From the adjoining room there are angry shouts of a woman.
Sorry I'm late.
Johnannes, the table.
LIEUTENANT VENTER You're a heavy shitface. Too much mealie porridge! Captain Stolz holds Gordon by the head and swings him like a pendulum.
How do you feel today?   Ready to fly?
STOLZ (pointing one sheet of paper) Yes, Mister Ngubene, we know about this Wellington... and... (pointing another affidavit) ... We know about him... and him ... Now, we want the names of the others. And today you're going to tell us. The WOMAN in the next room SHOUTING louder than before -- that one is a real and tough activist --
 Bloody woman.  Water! As Johannes is fetching the bucket of water.        Venter goes to the cupboard and stays there.
'Samson' is ready, Captain, shall I switch him on?
 Okay.   Gert! Gordon is given a short burst of electric shock.
 Hai!
STOLZ That was a small taste of 'Samson.' We have a whole day... A knock at the door.
... Kom! A black policeman in uniform.       JOHNSON SEROKE, enters with a letter in his hand.
What do you want?
A letter for you, Captain. Stolz goes to take the letter and turns to place it on his desk. He notices Seroke still standing. STOLZ What are you bloody-well waiting for? SEROKE No reply, Captain? STOLZ Get out of here. Seroke leaves. STOLZ  Now about these affidavits who told you to collect them? The A.N.C.? Who recruited you? Gordon mumbles something.
What? He bends forward to hear, and Gordon's swollen, puffy eyes hold his gaze.
I don't know anything about the A.N.C.
You've had your chance.    Now you're going to shit.  
STOLZ (to lieutenant in Afrikaans) Reg gert. Gordon suddenly shakes violently and shouts repeatedly.
Hai!   Hai!   Hai!
God created the whole human race so that they could occupy the entire earth. He decreed how long each nation should flourish, and what the boundaries of each territory should be. Our task is to preserve that creative diversity. Behind him, in his deacon's black tails, Ben listens with clasped hands. On the opposite side, another man is lis- tening, standing in the love of his family, Cloete. BESTER Brothers and sisters, like our forebears, the Voortrekkers, who trekked into the wilderness preserve the Afrikanere way of life given to them by God. Today, we also live in times of great danger. Let not fear overcome you! Cling to the ways of justice and truth preserved by our leaders. So shall God be honored... BEN'S POV
... So shall the Afrikaner people flourish.
Why didn't you tell me you'd been down to John Vorster Square? BEN What difference would it have made? SUSAN I'm your wife, damn it!
I didn't want to upset you. SUSAN Upset me? It upsets me when you share your bloody secrets with a child! Johan is embarrassed. Ben glances at him. Johan shrugs and shakes his head "not me." Ben planes on. SUSAN Ben! Ben! Look at me for God sakes!  Johan uit met jou! Johan leaves.
 Now what? SUSAN We have a good life. We may not have everything we might have had if... BEN  ... If I'd been more ambitious.
SUSAN  Ben, what's happening?  Sometimes it seems to me I don't know you.
What's happening -- it's something I've never had to face -- deal with -- before.
He's the gardener for God's sake, not one of the family. BEN Be patient with me... When Gordon is free you'll have me all to yourself again... promise.
 Ben.    We're growing old.
Nonsense. One's as old as he feels. I feel young and very attractive. I can still do my duty. She smiles up at him, chuckles, and then they kiss.
JOHAN Papa.
EMPTY_LINE
Stanley's here, Papa.
Oh, bloody hell!
Susan exclaims in angry frustration and flees.
Gordon's dead.
What? The news leaves Ben speechless.      Stanley continues in flat, emotionless tones. STANLEY The bastards say he committed suicide... hanged himself.
Suicide... is that what they told Emily -- poor woman... STANLEY They didn't tell her. She heard it on the radio like the rest of us. I contacted Lewinson immediately. He then rung the police to ask why Emily wasn't informed. Would you believe it, they said they were sorry, and they didn't know where to contact her. Ben walks slowly out of the garage in deep thoughts -- Stanley follows him.
 God! I never thought Gordon could commit suicide. STANLEY Did you understand me? I said, they said he committed suicide. BEN How do we know?
Gordon wasn't a coward. 
BEN Yes, but...
 What do you mean 'but'? What about Timol who they said had jumped from a top-floor window? What about Ngudle? What about Mosala? Joyi? Malele? They all died in that John Vorster Square. All suicide, eh? Ben stares at him. There is something like a strange silence between them. Ben is confused and Stanley is staring at him. Ben breaks this embarrassing mood.
Anything I can do to help? STANLEY He's got brothers. BEN  Brothers? STANLEY I'm his brother, man, we all are! We'll take care of everything.  That's the African way. BEN Stanley, I'd like to see Gordon. STANLEY Don't look for trouble, man. You know there are riots all over Soweto. You're out of it. Why don't you stay out?
Don't you understand?   I've got to go.
 You got to go? Of course, Lanie... the last farewell. But we have to be careful.
EMPTY_LINE
STANLEY We expected it.
How can you talk like that!? STANLEY A guy gets picked up by the S.B... he's part of history, man. BEN You mean you had no hope, you didn't believe he'd be released? STANLEY Hope's a white word, Lanie... It's not hope we need.
Well, thank God Emily has you to lean on, Stanley. STANLEY Emily is like my sister... We go back many years. BEN Do you belong to the xhosa tribe too? STANLEY I am an African. That's all! (looking through the rear mirror) Comprende? BEN I am an African too! Stanley turns abruptly.
What? BEN I was fourteen before I wore shoes -- except for church... I grew up on a plaas miles from any town... watching sheep and... STANLEY  Bullshit! Next you'll have me believing we grew up in the same country, same laws, same freedom, same everything! 
He laughs.
 We are now about to leave the white jungle and entering the land of love and glory. The car approaches a huge perimeter notice:
So this is Soweto.
 But watch out for the police and army. They're patrolling all the time.
 Hurry up, Lanie.
A modern funeral parlor with its name painted on the side: "MOROKA FUNERAL DIRECTOR  LTD."
 No sweets today. I'm sorry, babies. The children give Stanley a coy disbelieving look as they watch him go with the "white man."
On the doorstep of the funeral parlor: Stanley and Ben run into a young woman coming out with a shoulder bag and a camera. The young woman and Stanley exchange a quick, friendly greeting -- it's MELANIE BRUWER, the Rand Daily reporter -- and keep moving. BACK TO SCENE
As he follows Stanley, he thanks the undertaker.
 'The living close the eyes of the dead. The dead open the eyes of the living.'
Please, take me to Emily.
Look, we'd took one hell of a chance to get here, let's not push it. BEN I really have to see her, Stanley. Stanley drives off.
 I said don't push it. I have to keep you alive. What's more the house is full of mourners. 
They drive in silence... then:
What are your thoughts now? BEN What do you mean?
 Come on. I know you came to see the body. What do you think now? BEN  I... I cannot think.   I'm confused. STANLEY You either believe what you saw or maybe you still prefer the government version. BEN For Christ sake, just get off my back, Stanley. STANLEY Okay.   It was a simple question. Stanley turns his RADIO ON and BANTU MUSIC invades the car as it speeds away in a cloud of dust. The big brassy Dodge is threading its way through the leafy calm of the white suburb.
You know, Lanie, when you run a taxi, especially a pirate taxi like me, you have eyes and ears everywhere. Even when a policeman farts in his bed you know. People want a reference book, a permit to stay in Soweto, a house, anything, we taxi drivers know the routes. I'll tell you something...
STANLEY Shit!
What?
Dr. Hassiem has been picked up. BEN Who's he?
Dr. Hassiem is the doctor we got to represent Emily at Gordon's autopsy. We wanted the truth. Ben suddenly realizes the significances.
He would have testified.   Bloody hell! STANLEY A smart move by your Boer brothers. They have silenced Hassiem. BEN His report has to be important. We can only use what we have. Therefore, Lewinson must get a very good advocate.  If only we could get   hold of this Hassiem's report.
What's the use? It's one big game and we blacks are merely spectators. Hey Lanie, can one be a spectator as he's being kicked around? He laughs.
BEN It's not a question of being spectators. The courts are impartial, the law is what matters.
 That's what you all say. I have to move man. Your neighbors! Now, be careful. They will put their marks on you! BEN Who?
You'll find out! (handing the packet to Ben) In case you need me. Don't give your name -- just say 'Lanie' phoned -- right? Ben gets out of the car.
Now tomorrow at ten... STANLEY  Sharp! At our smart liberal friend's office, yeh!
Good night. Stanley drives vigorously away.
I went to Soweto and saw Gordon's body. They have lied to me, my own people -- they killed him! I saw the body.
Johan looks horrified.
Ben, you're not a doctor. His death was announced officially. They wouldn't say anything unless they were certain of their facts.
 Facts? There's a doctor who participated at the autopsy.   A Doctor Hassiem and he... SUSAN  You mean the Indian doctor who's been arrested? JOHAN It was in the five o'clock news, Papa. BEN That's him, he represented Emily at the autopsy. SUSAN  Ben, I'm sorry about Gordon's death, but please for all our sakes, forget about this whole thing. Let's get back to a normal life. BEN Can I have a drink?
A brandy?
You always know what I need. Johan hurries into the house.
 Please, Ben, I'm frightened.
The police are in attendance in large numbers at the edge of the crowd, some in battle dress and some with dogs. PRIEST Before I conclude, I have to say we are tired of making this journey every day, sometimes twice in one day, burying our children, and those, like our departed brother, Ngubene who were merely seeking the truth; and those who have been denounced by traitors amongst us; and those who have been brutally killed for no reason, yes I shall say it, by the police. Let those who rule this land of ours listen to the word of God; let them listen to our peaceful and just demands; let them be humble and go down on their knees and seek forgiveness, then listen to God. The crowd roars:   "Amanda!   Amanda!" The Priest starts a short hymn and the crowd joins in.
We will have a few words from Mr. Pilani our father and leader. The crowd starts singing a freedom song with arms raised. The funeral has now become a political demonstration.
A SENIOR POLICE OFFICER threads his way through the crowd, a loud hailer in his hand. As he reaches the grave he turns. The crowd is quiet. He says something to the Priest then addresses the crowd. SENIOR OFFICER The funeral is over. I order everyone to go home. This is not a political rally. I repeat, disperse.
Despite repeated warnings young blacks attacked the police with rocks and petrol bombs. Five policemen were injured. Susan briefly glances at Ben.
Several arrests were made. One youth was killed and five wounded.
This morning there was a serious disturbance at the funeral of Gordon Ngubene. Susan leaves the room.
NEWSCASTER The detainee who committed suicide by hanging himself at John Vorster Square. An overseas television cameraman broke an arm during the disturbance. It's been reported that several people had been killed by a car-bomb in Belfast Northern Island... Ben turns OFF the TV and stays in his thoughts.
How are you, Emily?
Well, thank you, Mr. Ben, sir. Eh, that's father Masonwane, our priest, and that's Margaret from next door.
STANLEY (raising his hand in greeting) Mfundisi...  ... Sisi! 
 Please sit down. Take this chair, the other one is broken. BEN  I didn't mean to disturb you. I've come to talk to you. EMILY (as she sits on the broken chair) Yes, it's good. What I want to know is why did they kill him. He didn't do them nothing. You know, Mr. Ben, sir, I washed his whole body for he was my husband. And I know a man who killed himself, he doesn't look like that.
Master, you must understand she's still raw inside. BEN I'm sure. Robert walks in, looks at Ben and walks into his bedroom to fetch something, then as he's about to go out: EMILY Robert, where are you manners today? Don't you greet visitors? Robert stops momentarily and looks at Ben with hostility and hurries out of the room banging the door.
I'm sorry for his rudeness. PRIEST  You have to understand what's happening to our children today, they're like wasps when you burn their nest. 
MARGARET That's right. Our children are saying 'that's enough!' Things have to change in this country. They accuse us of being cowards.
Emily, I have really come to assure you that I will do all I can to help you find out what really happened to Jonathan and your husband -- we cannot bring them back to life, but we can make sure that this sort of thing won't ever happen again.
You mean well, sir, but it's better to forgive. If we keep the pain alive then hate and bitterness will remain with us. BEN The air must be cleared.   So we can breathe again. PRIEST The air can only be cleared if we forget about yesterday's thunder. EMILY Mr. Ben is right. It's not that I want to go on with this thing because it's a bad thing that Jonathan died, that Gordon died that's hard enough to bear, but I can forgive it. But they covered Gordon's name with dirt and we must clean it up, else he'll never have peace in his grave.
 You must understand for us, suicide is a coward's way out, how do they say, it's a 'cop out.' BEN Gordon wasn't a coward and we'll prove that. We have a very good advocate for the inquest. His name is De Villiers. I have confidence in him and the truth will come out. 
EMILY The truth must be known. They killed my husband who wouldn't hurt a fly and they killed Jonathan who was only a child...
Those people who did it are sinful people who don't know what they're doing.
He! Mfundisi, what are you saying now? You mean...
We must help them. That's the only way. They need our help, not hate, but love. PRIEST I pity them and I ask the Lord to help me so I can learn to love them. STANLEY If that's what you preach in your church you will soon be starving.
They covered his name with dirt. PRIEST Aren't you afraid sis Emily? EMILY No. In the end one grows tired of being afraid. STANLEY Amen!
Emily, Stanley and I will do all we can. As I said we have a good advocate. Everyone involved with Gordon's death will be questioned and all that's known regarding what happened in John Vorster Square will come out.
MARGARET How can anything come out of that John Vorster Square? Who there will say: 'Yes, we killed the boy and Gordon?'
Lawyers ask questions. MARGARET And don't policemen lie?
Thank you, Mr. Ben, sir for what you're doing.
 I'm pleased I came. STANLEY (to Ben as he goes to the door) Wait, let me check the situation. He opens the door and walks out.
 Do I... 
STANLEY  Yes, on the floor man. Stanley opens the back door for Ben.     Who crouches on the floor.
Okay. Kids, time to go home.   Be careful.
 Sure 'bra' Stanley. Take it easy. Stanley drives off at speed. Stanley is driving, they have left Soweto.       Ben still on the floor. BEN Are we still in Soweto?
Why don't you look for yourself? Ben rises and sees that they're at least a mile out.       He is not amused. BEN  What the hell are you playing at? STANLEY (as he bursts into loud laugh) Precautions, Lanie. BEN  Don't call me Lanie!   What does that mean anyway? STANLEY  You will not understand, Lanie. They drive off.
I think I am without awareness. I have always cared about people, call it a social conscience. But my visit to Gordon's house made me experience another dimension of human conditions. SUSAN The poverty, ja...
No, I expected that. But listening to them talk made me realize that I did not know the blacks. Now I question my attitudes, my concerns as Ben, and complacence as a white person.
Ben, I know your anxiety about the inquest. All will be cleared up, in a legal way, and you'll be back to your normal self. Now let's turn off the lights. Susan kisses Ben tenderly. The inquest of Gordon Ngubene... conducted by MAGISTRATE KLOPPER. In the witness box is DR. JANSEN, the state pathologist, giving evidence. Advocate DE VILLIERS is cross examining. DE VILLIERS Dr. Jansen, you are a state pathologist of many years standing and I have no doubt a well-qualified pathologist. Could you now please tell us what caused the death of the deceased? DR. JANSEN I found that death had been caused by the application of force to the neck, consistent with hanging.
There's a vigorous reaction to this around the court, which gives us a chance to discover the crowd:
You are sure about the hanging? This pressure on the neck, could it also have been exerted in other ways? DR. JANSEN It could, but it is not for me to speculate. DE VILLIERS Of course not, Doctor. The list of injuries found on the body was horrifyingly long; bruises, swellings, abrasions, broken rib, lacerations, etc. How long before death do you estimate he received these injuries? DR. JANSEN I couldn't say exactly.
Roughly.
Some were fourteen to twenty days old, others three to four days and others even more recent.
Even more recent. I see. I understand you had a Dr. Hassiem present at the autopsy.
That's correct. 
DE VILLIERS There were two reports, ours and his. Did they tally? DR. JANSEN Yes, it was.   In most respects.
That's for him to answer! DE VILLIERS I would very much like to, Dr. Jansen, but he's been detained -- you know of course that he represented the Ngubene family. Thank you. There's a murmur around the court... Ben looks across at Viljoen who returns his gaze -- smiling.
DR. HERZOG the police physician, giving evidence. DE VILLIERS Dr. Herzog, did you examine the deceased? DR. HERZOG Yes, one day Captain Stolz called me in. The man had toothache. DE VILLIERS  That's all?
 As far as I could tell -- yes.
DE VILIERS You didn't examine him thoroughly?
Why should I? The man was perfectly healthy, just complaining of toothache. I extracted three decayed teeth, and gave him aspirin for the pain... that's all.
Did the captain or anyone else assist you during the examination?
 I... I cannot remember. DE VILLIERS (more aggressive and accusing) Dr. Herzog, tell us. Have you been intimidated by the Security Police or did you deliberately cooperate with them in playing their disgusting little game of hide-and-seek?
 I protest, Your Worship.
Advocate De Villiers, will you refrain from insinuations?
Thank you, Doctor Herzog... I'm sure Gordon Ngubene was extremely grateful! Herzog's face is impassive.
Advocate Louw?
LOUW Thank you, Your Worship. I'd like to call Captain Stolz. There's a buzz from the spectators as Captain Stolz walks up to the witness stand. He's given a Bible.
You're a police officer stationed at John Vorster Square?
That's right, Your Worship. LOUW You arrested Gordon Ngubene. Could you describe what happened?
Acting on information we had received, I went to the house of the deceased, accompanied by Lieutenant Venter, Lieutenant Botha, and three native members of the security force. This was about 10 P.M. I informed Ngubene that he was under arrest under Article 6 of the Terrorism Act. He then became violent and resisted arrest. A certain force had to be applied to restrain him.
We found several incriminating documents. These pointed to his involvement with the A.N.C. and activities endangering the security of the state.
Was the deceased ever assaulted to your knowledge? STOLZ Never. He was always treated with courtesy and correctness. But, one time we had cause to use force against him. It was the day before his death. The deceased suddenly showed signs of aggression. He tried to jump through the open window of my office. He was acting like a mad man. It took six of my men to restrain him, and he had to be manacled hand and foot, for his own safety. But once he calmed down, he was ready to make a statement about his activities. The next morning we found him dead in his cell. MAGISTRATE Is the statement in evidence? LOUW No, Your Worship. It can't be disclosed in court without damaging our investigation, but I would like to offer into evidence a suicide note written by the deceased. Louw, taking it from his file on the table. Stanley and Margaret listening.
'Dear Captain. I prefer to die rather than betray any more of my friends. Amandla! Gordon Ngubene.' He hands it to the court clerk.   There's uproar at this.
Thank you, Your Worship. MAGISTRATE Advocate De Villiers?
Ben is disgusted. He looks about the court, as if seeking allies. His eyes meet Melanie's -- just for a second there's recognition -- then he returns to De Villiers. Advocate De Villiers cross-examining Captain Stolz.
Thank you, Your Worship. Captain Stolz, you said you treated the deceased always with courtesy and correctness, then how do you account for the injuries found on the body? STOLZ Sometimes detainees deliberately injure themselves for propaganda purposes. The gallery screams its objections. Stanley leans forward and grins across the partition at Ben. The Magistrate warns the crowd. Finally the gallery quiets down. DE VILLIERS You say he tried to jump out of the open window... Are there no bars to prevent such an act? STOLZ They had been removed for repair. DE VILLIERS And why did he wish to jump out? Because you were torturing him? STOLZ He wasn't tortured.
Perhaps it was the toothache then.
You said you seized incriminating documents at the deceased's home; can you produce them to see how subversive he was? LOUW  Those documents cannot be introduced as evidence, Your Worship, in view of the fact that state security is involved. 
The Magistrate makes a note.
I put it to you, Captain -- that the only subversive activities the deceased had been involved in were his efforts to establish what happened to his son, Jonathan, allegedly shot during a riot, although several witnesses are prepared to testify that he died in detention one month later. LOUW  I protest... DE VILLIERS This would support my case that an innocent man has died in your hands under highly questionable circumstances.
If it please Your Worship... this unwarranted slur on the integrity of the special branch is unacceptable... and based, I may say, on allegations which are in any case irrelevant to the present inquest. MAGISTRATE I agree. DE VILLIERS  If the police are really interested in retaining an unsullied reputation, they should not object to the real facts being presented. Thank you, Captain. LOUW The real facts are being presented -- as the following affadivits prove. They are all by detainees -- who testify that they had all seen the deceased intermittently from the time of his detention -- to the time of his death -- and on all occasions he was in good health.
As the documents are passed to the Magistrate, they are scorned by De Villiers. Imperviously he requests:
I trust the signatories of these ... documents... are available to corroborate their evidence in person. STRAIGHT ON ARCHIBALD CHIGORIMBO
Mr. Archibald, when did you first meet Gordon Ngubene? ARCHIBALD (looking at black crowd, then to De Villiers) I never saw Gordon Ngubene. A sudden stillness in the court. ON Ben.
ON Melanie. ON Louw. DE VILLIERS Are you saying that you didn't sign this statement? ARCHIBALD ... I never met Mr. Ngubene... they forced me to sign. Captain Stolz, he hit me many times with a rubber hose... he said he would kill me 'less I signed... this... this is what he did to me.
Thank you, Mr. Archibald.
MAGISTRATE Advocate Louw?
 No thank you, Your Worship.
 May we put up the second signatory?
Your Worship -- the other three signatories cannot appear for reasons of state security. He sits down, bland, examining his papers.
Your Worship, I'd like to recall Captain Stolz.
Captain, you're still under oath -- you took Archibald's statement. Was it voluntary? I'm sure you'll say it was, then how did he come by the injuries on his back?
He fell down the stairs a few days ago.
DE VILLIERS Fell down the stairs. You should do something about those stairs, Captain, so many people fall on them. Thank you.
 Your Worship, may I be excused? I have to escort detainee Archibal back to John Vorster Square. MAGISTRATE You may, Captain, and thank you.  I think this's a good moment to adjourn -- we'll reconvene at two thirty. Emily, Margaret, Stanley and a man, are sitting outside the court eating fish and chips. There are various Africans sitting around for their lunch break.
Ben and Dan Lewinson having a light lunch in a nearby cafe. BEN  De Villiers is making mincemeat of them.
He's very good. His cross- examination has got them rattled.
It's obvious to anybody! The evidence is clear!  Did you see Archibal's back? He didn't have to tell the truth.
LEWINSON That's what Stolz is saying to him right now in his torture room. CUT TO:
Captain Stolz lied. My husband never fight the police when he was arrested. They were rough with him, pushing him and threatening. DE VILLIERS When your husband's clothes were given to you, in what condition were they? EMILY There was blood on them and in the back pocket I found three broken teeth. DE VILLIERS Now Mrs. Ngubene, you have seen the note that's said to have been written by your husband. Do you recognize the writing?
 That's not how my husband writes.  He never wrote that letter, they lie.
Thank you, Mrs. Ngubene. MAGISTRATE Advocte Louw?
 They killed my husband and son.
ON Ben, satisfied.
 Will you take the woman out?
I'd like to call my last witness. Grace Nkosi.
Were you ever detained? GRACE Yes sir, at John Vorster Square.
For how long? GRACE Six months. DE VILLIERS Can you tell us what happened to you during that time? GRACE I was interrogated by many special policemen, but mainly Captain Stolz and the one they call Venter. As they were searching somebody I know, they wanted me to tell them where that person was hidden. As I refuse to cooperate they beat me with a sjambok. After some time I fell and they kicked me in the face and stomach.
GRACE I spot blood and they try to make me lick it. Then Captain Stolz threw a wet towel and started twisting it around my neck...  ... until I lost consciousness. They did this several time and the last one Captain Stolz said 'come on meid, speak up, or do you want to die like Gordon Ngubene?' A few days later I was released. ON Melanie taking notes.
Thank you, Miss Grace. That's all, Your Worship. LOUW (rising and looking at Grace for some seconds) You made that up. Say you made it up. GRACE It's the truth. I have nothing more to say. Louw sits down. MAGISTRATE We shall adjourn until tomorrow morning. I'll hear the arguments and give the verdict.
ON Ben's face.    ON Dan Lewinson's face.   ON Viljoen and Stolz's faces.
I have listened to all the evidence and the arguments. To begin with I have to say that there was no conclusive evidence offered to prove beyond doubt that members of the Security Police had been guilty of assault or any irregular conduct on the deceased. There were indications that Ngubene was aggressive and on more than one occasion had to be restrained with force. There was sufficient evidence to conclude that death had been caused by a trauma following pressure applied to the neck, consistent with hanging. Consequently, I find that Gordon Ngubene committed suicide by hanging himself and that on available evidence his death cannot be attributed to any act or omission or amounting to a criminal offense on the part of any person.
Viljoen and Stolz smiling, shaking hands with Advocate Louw in congratulations.
totally depressed, walking up to Emily.
STANLEY (to Ben over noise of the discussion) Don't worry, man. There's another day!
I'm sorry, Emily.
REPORTERS 'Mister Du Toit, how do you know Mrs. Ngubene?' 'Mister Du Toit, can you answer, is it true, he was a terrorist?' Ben tries to get through. REPORTERS Mister Du Toit, what do you think of the verdict? Do you believe the police? Melanie appears, grabs Ben and pushes him away through them. REPORTER Hang on, Melanie, I'm coming with you. MELANIE  Fuck off. The press is still pursuing them.
My car is over there.
 Never mind your car. Let's get away from these vultures.
They get into the car and as they drive away, Melanie introduces herself.
By the way, I'm Melanie Bruwer.
Obviously of the Rand Daily Mail. I read your article about Jonathan.
Ten out of ten, Mr. Du Toit.      I know about you too.
 You do? Melanie smiles. MELANIE We have a mutual friend.    One Stanley. BEN I remember. The mortuary in Soweto...  ... The ambiguous Stanley. MELANIE Stanley? No. Just careful. A big black rough uncut diamond. Don't be fooled by his happy-go- lucky attitude. There's much more to him.
He couldn't have given you a glowing report of me.  I'm sorry, but where are we going? MELANIE I thought a cooling drink at my house. BEN  Mrs. Bruwer, I'm not...
MELANIE  I promise you. I'm not after an interview or anything like that. She smiles.
I really must go home. MELANIE Please, Mr. Du Toit, and you'll meet my darling father. She smiles again.    A disarming smile.
How long have you lived here? MELANIE Oh, about twenty-one years.   I love this house. BRUWER  Is that you, Melanie?
Of course, Dad. I want you to meet a friend.
Does anyone have a friend nowadays?
He straightens up and throws the net over his head and studies Ben. MR. BRUWER is seventy years old; an interesting face with a goatee beard. MELANIE Mr. Du toit, Dad.
Do you like bees? BEN  I have nothing against them. MELANIE  Be careful, I can see philosophy coming. BRUWER You shut up.  Let me tell you about bees, and for that matter ants: a bee has a completely altruistic sense of purpose -- based on the common good. A course from which he cannot be deflected. Greed, ambition, they mean nothing to him. He lives solely to serve his fellow bee. MELANIE What about individuality, Dad? BRUWER There's the rub, my girl. There's the rub. One of these days I'll ask the bees. I'm sure they have the answer. Now, you two run along!
A drink, Dad?
I've been peeing too much this morning.
MELANIE (as they walk toward the house) That's my Daddy. Melanie and Ben enter the house.
 That's Dad's. Drink?
Please.   A...
 A brandy?
 No thanks, a beer will be fine.
EMPTY_LINE
MELANIE The mugs are the few things that Dad brought from Germany. He studied philosophy in Tubingen and Berlin before the last war.
I thought they were German? Melanie sits, her legs propped up on the settee, hugging her knees.
Mr. Du Toit, tell...
 Please, call me Ben. MELANIE All right, Ben, tell me, why are you so depressed? You really expect a different verdict?
 Why do you ask? Can you understand it?
Of course I understand it. What could they have. I'm not cynical. I'm only trying to be realistic.
Tell me, Miss Bruwer...
Ben and Melanie, that's fair. BEN Tell me, do you believe in the notion of justice? MELANIE  I'll never stop believing. But in this country I've learned it's pointless to look for it in certain situations.
What use is a system if justice does not apply to all situations?
MELANIE Exactly. And you cannot fight for justice unless you know injustice very well. You've got to know your enemy first.
That's a tall order: 'know injustice... know the enemy.' it seems I have a long haul ahead of me.
Not at all, Ben. You have already taken the first steps.  Welcome to South Africa! She smiles. Susan is sitting at the dressing table. She is applying cleansing cream to her face. She is relaxed. Ben is getting ready for bed. SUSAN Did you enjoy the 'bobotie?' When I heard the verdict on the news I knew you'd be upset.  I wanted to make you something special.
 Thank you, darling.
I'm glad it's all over. You take things to heart too much. Ben comes and stands behind Susan -- looking at her through the mirror.
 They killed Gordon -- first they kill Jonathan, and then him. How can they get away with it? 
SUSAN  Now come on, Ben. Gordon's death upset me, too. But the Magistrate had all the facts. He must know what he's doing, he's had years of experience. The case has run its course, and nobody can do anything more about it! It's all over and done with.
 I'm not so sure about that, Susan!
I'm damned well sure! It's over, Ben! You better get that into your head. Ben just stares at her with seething anger.       She stands up and starts being hysterical. SUSAN A teacher, always a bloody teacher. You never moved yourself for us. But for the blacks, oh yes. Whose side are you on, Ben? And I'm sick and tired of those natives coming here. Why don't you bloody well go and live in Soweto?
 Now where are you going? BEN  Soweto! Then shuts the door behind him.
After a few seconds, Ben moves slowly to the bed and sits on it still in deep thought.
FADE OUT. FADE IN:
There are two children buying sweets and a woman leaving. The PROPRIETOR is an Afrikaner in his middle age. BEN More meneer Van de Merwe.  PROPRIETOR  More meneer du Toit.
Our boys gave the Eastern province a thrashing. PROPRIETOR Yes. Ben realizes that the man is not his usual conversational self. BEN Is anything wrong?
No.
BEN  And a packet of tobacco and pipe cleaners. The man gets them and takes a note from Ben and gives him his change. By then a man is waiting. 
BEN See you tomorrow.
 Now, Papa, this is going too far! How could you?
 How's that, Suzette?
SUZETTE You didn't stop to think of the family. Poor mother, how can she face anyone? And tomorrow is Sunday! BEN Now listen...
What's everybody yelling about? SUZETTE You listen, Papa, just tell me, why?
Do you really think I specially arranged for the photographers to take that picture? And what's more it's distorted. SUZETTE What's distorted about it? Your face is practically touching that meid's face, like you were about to kiss her. BEN  Suzette, pull yourself together! SUZETTE Today the whole country has seen that photograph. We, your children, are going to suffer. At this very moment Chris is negotiating with the Provincial Council. Would you like to see them cancel it? You have no feeling, Papa! BEN  Suzette!
 What's Papa done, anyway? If something happened to him, wouldn't you be upset?
SUSAN  Not enough, Johan, to throw myself into the garden boy's arms. BEN That goes without saying.
 There must be easier ways of getting your name in the paper. Before she can stop herself, Susan slaps him across the face, although not hard. Johan leaves without a word. She clutches her hand, shocked at having it against him.
 Who?... I don't know you and have nothing to say to you... No thank you for your advice! He puts the phone down.    The PHONE RINGS again.   Ben picks it up and waits. BEN It's you, Viviers... I appreciate it... of course... Not yet... Any thank you. Tot siens.
Morning, Mr. Cloete...   I'd like to say...  ... Mr. Cloete, may I ask what on earth has the picture to do with politics?... I'm sorry Mr. Cloete, I have to go.
Everything was examined in depth in court.
Did you read the papers, Dominee? Were you happy with what came to light? And is it the Magistrate's work to pretend that the facts which came to light didn't exist? BESTER Was it really facts, Ben? Just then the African "HERDBOY" walks up to them taking off his lattered greasy hat. BESTER Ja?   What is it Tom? TOM Does the Baas want me to bring the bull now? BESTER Later, Tom. TOM Dankie, Baas.
No one but God can see what's in our hearts.  
BESTER Isn't it presumptuous to pretend we can speak for someone else? BEN Have you no faith in your fellow men, Dominee? Don't you love your neighbor? BESTER  Wait a minute, instead of criticizing blindly, don't you think we have reason to be proud of the judiciary we have?  suppose this had been Russia; what do you think would have happened then? BEN What's the use of reaching a court when a handful of people have all the power to decide what is going to be said in that court and by whom? The one man they allowed to speak for himself, that young Archibald Chigorimbo, didn't he immediately deny everything they forced him to say in his statement? And the girl who spoke of her own torture?
That did not refer to our situation in this South Africa. Do you know what I believe in, Dominee, that once in one's life, just once, one should have enough faith in something to risk everything for it. BESTER One can gain the world and still lose one's soul. Tea must be ready. Bester and Ben walk towards the house still in conversation.
Ben pours himself a cup of coffee; as he takes his first sip, Cloete looks in, sees him. He walks in.
I hope you don't mind us talking here. BEN I don't mind, Mr. Cloete. CLOETE I'll come to the point. You can't imagine how shocked I was by that scandalous photograph in the Ossewa.
The woman lost her husband, she was shattered with grief. CLOETE A Kaffir woman, Du Toit. BEN  I can't see that it makes any difference.
Have you gone color blind then? And what about the apartheid laws? Our first responsibility as teachers is the reputation of the school, the pupils entrusted to us. We have to be an example to them in and out of this school yard.
CLOETE I thought I had warned you about involving yourself with Kaffirs. Obviously you didn't heed my advice.  That's all I have to say for now.
'Morning, Oom Ben.
 Viviers. VIVIERS  Private coffee with Cloete?
Good afternoon, Professor. BRUWER  Melanie isn't home. You are... BEN Ben Du Toit. You have a nice vegetable garden.
You mean the area or the produce?
Both.   What plants are these? 
BRUWER What's the world coming to? It's herbs, can't you see? Thyme there, oregano over there, feunel next to the tomatoes, sage here and rosemary somewhere. Poor plants, they re not in their ideal soil or climate. Next time, I'll bring some soil from the mountain of Zeus. Perhaps the old man's holiness will do the trick.
Come, you are just the person to sample my greengage wine. I don't suppose you've ever tasted it? I'm sure I'm the only person in the country making greengage wine. He leads Ben to the two old chairs by the back wall. He enters the kitchen and returns with a bottle of greengage wine and two glasses. BRUWER  The first bottle this year, and you don't have to tell me if you like it or not. Tell me, did you ever study philosophy? BEN Not really.   I've read a few books. BRUWER  Not bad, in fact quite good. Now where was I... Oh, I was going to say after decades of philosophy, I find myself being forced back to the earth. Do you know, Ben, we're all living in the spell of abstractions. Hitler, apartheid, the great American dream, the lot?
What about Jesus?
Misunderstood.  
BRUWER (referring to the wine) You don't have to finish it. BEN  It's quite nice. BRUWER Melanie has told me a little about you. It's not an easy road you have chosen. BEN I feel I have no choice.
BRUWER Of course you have a choice. Damn it. One always has a choice. Only thank God you made the choice you did. But all I want to say is, keep your eyes open, young man. BEN That's encouraging. BRUWER We are both Boers, Ben. We know how hard our people worked to get a toehold on this land; it was a good life. Now look at the mess. It's all systems and no God! Sooner or later people start believing in their way of life as an absolute: unmutable, fundamental, a precondition. Saw it, with my own eyes in Germany, a nation running after an idea. Sieg heil, sieg heil. I left there thirty years ago because I couldn't take it any longer. And now I see it happening in my own country, step by step. Terrifyingly predictable. This sickness of the great abstraction.
Ben is so fascinated by the old man's conversation he didn't react. He is learning form his old Afrikaner.
What you say is very interesting and important.
Take for example the way the government is handling the electorate; like a bloody donkey. Carrot in front and kick at the backside. The carrot is apartheid, Dogma. The kick is quite simply, fear. Black peril, red peril, whatever name you want to give it.  Fear can be a wonderful ally, Ben. I talk too much, I always do with younger people, they don't fall asleep to me. BEN  We Afrikaners have to stop to turn a blind eye and look around us and at ourselves.
You are right. We still have time. History should teach us about those who regarded themselves as the chosen people. BEN (standing up comforted) Professor Bruwer, may I say I have needed to hear somebody say some of the things you said. I still have hope for our country. BRUWER If you lose that you have lost everything. I'll get back to the earth. BEN  Thank you.
BRUWER I'll tell that hot-head daughter of mine that you came to see her. Ben takes his leave.
There is absolutely no doubt that they were killed in custody. Those responsible must be punished, whoever they are, or whatever their rank. LEWINSON The problem is laying our hands on them. BEN Tell me, Dan, we lost at the inquest, what next? LEWINSON The family can file a civil claim.
What does that entail? LEWINSON To put it briefly, it means we have to have witnesses, affidavits and any information relating to the arrest and death of Gordon. We also need similar information on Jonathan. You see Ben, for example, Stolz figures in both cases. That's one link at least.
I know what I have to do.
MELANIE I didn't think you would want to have anything to do with me after that crap in the Ossewa. BEN Why?   You didn't write it.
I'm a journalist, perhaps tarred with the same brush.
No.
So what happened? I can imagine. The family, the dominee, colleagues, neighbors... BEN A distorted photograph and a few poisoned words and meneer Du Toit is a leper. That's why I called on you the other day, I needed to talk to somebody rational. MELANIE Thanks for the compliment. But remember, you're an Afrikaner, you're one of them. In their eyes they regard you as the worst kind of traitor.
You are an Afrikaner too, and your articles, in a liberal English paper? MELANIE My mother was a foreigner, I'm not pure, wragte Afrikaner. They don't expect the same loyalty from me that they demand from you.
What kind of loyalty? Blind loyalty. Until the deaths of Jonathan and Gordon, I gave all the loyalty I could give, laager loyalty. You know, Melanie, we Afrikaners have always lived in our laager, we have not seen what's beyond the mountains.
MELANIE Has it ever occurred to you that the Volk may be scared to leave the laager? That's the downfall of this country. So, where do you go from here?
We carry on.   There has to be justice.
Justice. BEN We lost at the inquest, so we pursue them in a civil action.    I consulted the attorney Dan Lewinson. MELANIE We know each other well.
Mr. Du Toit, if you knew what we're working with every day of our lives, and what we're up against, you would understand why we have to be so thorough. BEN However you go about it.
I can understand you're upset about having your house searched ... but... BEN I wasn't thinking about myself.
What are you talking about then, Mr. Du Toit?
My thoughts, Captain, I'm sure, are an open book to you. 
Stolz picks up a book of Picasso's Peace Paintings, starts leafing through it carefully, scrutinizing each page. He puts the Picasso book carefully back in the place he took it from.
An interesting book -- Picasso -- Not one I'm familiar with.
Not on your list of banned books, Captain?
Mr. Du Toit. If you're keeping anything from us, we can turn this whole house upside down if we want to. We have all the time in the world. SUSAN (throwing Ben a warning daggers look) I'm afraid I don't understand.
 Why don't you go upstairs? STOLZ I'm afraid she has to stay where we can see her -- in case she wanted to warn someone. SUSAN My father's an M.P.!   Warn who?
Roast beef, I hope it's like your mother's. SUSAN  Papa! He is aged about 70 years, thick set. She rushes to him and he hugs her tightly and practically lifts her off the floor. She kisses him.
Where's Mama?
The perfume and a new hairstyle.
Your father insisted that I don't disgrace you.
SUSAN  I expected you a little later. FATHER-IN-LAW She insisted we start early. Where is Ben?
 In the study. I'll get him. FATHER-IN-LAW Have you put on weight, Susan?
Please don't say that, Papa. Ben walks in. BEN Sorry.   Didn't hear you arrive.
How are you, Ben?
Fine. He goes to MOTHER-IN-LAW.        He kisses her on the cheek.
And how are you, Ma?
Well, Ben, still have trouble with my feet.
Why doesn't everyone sit down? SUSAN I'll prepare some tea.     I baked a cake. She goes to the kitchen.
FATHER-IN-LAW I'm getting tired of the trek to Cape Town and then back to Pretoria. If I had my way, Parliament and government would be in the same city. There's nothing wrong with Pretoria.
I thought you'd prefer Cape Town; the sea and Table Mountain.
That's for   holidays. Anyway, Ben, one of the   reasons for this visit was that I   wanted to have a discussion   with you. BEN What about? FATHER-IN-LAW It's that photograph in the papers. Ben, a thing like that could be an embarrassment for someone who is a member of Parliament. It's a grievous day when one's family's behavior comes between him and his duty to the fatherland. BEN Are you blaming me for trying to help those people? FATHER-IN-LAW I've been doing that all my life, be they black or white. But no member of our family has been seen with a Kaffir woman before, Ben.
I am glad you mentioned it, Father. Because I'd like to discuss the whole thing with you. First, there's the matter of Gordon Ngubene himself.
What about him? I thought the case was closed. 
BEN The inquest didn't clear up half of what happened. FATHER-IN-LAW Oh, really?
We have no irrefutable evidence yet, but we have enough to indicate that something serious is being covered up. FATHER-IN-LAW You're jumping to conclusions, Ben.
I know what I'm talking about. The black waiter places the drinks on the table. FATHER-IN-LAW All right, Ben, I'm listening. Perhaps I can use my influence. But you'll have to convince me first. BEN If they have really nothing to hide, why is the special branch going out of its way to intimidate me.
 What's this about special branch?
They raided the house; they are tapping my phone, and I have been threatened by one of the officers. FATHER-IN-LAW I'm sorry, Ben, I'd rather not have anything to do with this sort of thing. BEN Why?
If the special branch are involved they must have good reasons.
BEN It's exactly what I said, Father, when Jonathan first got into trouble. Of course, they have good reasons: hushing up how Gordon died and how his son died!
 Ben, how could you side with the enemies of your people?
You mean you're prepared to sit back and allow an injustice to be done.
 It's you, Ben, who talk about injustice? A man who teaches history at school? Did you forget what our people have suffered under the English oppressors? Now that we have at along last come to power in our own land. BEN Now we're free to do to others what they used to do to us. What will you do if you were a black man in this country today, Father?
Don't you realize what the government is doing for the blacks? It's a slow process, Ben. One of these days the whole bloody lot of them will be free and independent in their own parts of the land, the bantoustans -- what can be more just than that? But they're not ready yet.
FATHER-IN-LAW We have nothing to be ashamed of before the eyes of the world, my boy. 
BEN (standing, his golf bag in his hand) We don't? I'm not sure we're going to survive.
Don't underestimate us, Ben.    Our power of survival. We are Afrikaners!
STANLEY African time.
I'm sorry. They drive off towards Soweto.
Doesn't matter, Lanie -- as long we are on time for the revolution. BEN The special branch searched my house four days ago.
The S.B. searches your house?  Did they take anything?
A few journals, letters -- nothing much. Just wanted to scare me, that's all.
Don't be so sure. They may think you're onto something big.
They're not that stupid. 
Stanley laughs.
'Lanie' -- don't you believe it -- nothing's as stupid as the old S.B. If they decide it's a bomb they're looking for, you can shove a turd in their face and they'll swear to God it's a bomb. He laughs... making Ben smile.
STANLEY And did they?
What? STANLEY Scare you? BEN No.   They tried too hard. Stanley laughs again. STANLEY Hallelujah! (offers his huge hand) Shake, man. Join the club.
"Kaffir lover" "Kaffer boetie" "Red Communist" The car drives off at speed.
Did you hear that, Lanie?     More kids dying?
What's happening?   What's the singing? STANLEY A wake for a child; eight months old. She was sleeping and they threw tear gas into it. They drive on. CUT TO: Ben, Stanley and Emily are sitting    'round the table. Ben has pulled the lamp closer to read    one of two notes from Gordon -- one is written on ruled    paper, the other a square of toilet paper. The notes     have been smuggled out of John Vorster Square.
 'My dear wife, you must not worry about me. I miss you and the children. You must look after them in the fear of the Lord. I'm hungry, and I don't know what they want from me. But I think I'll be home some day. I think about...' They are interrupted by a KNOCK at the door. Emily snatches the notes and stuffs them into her bosom. Everyone is tense as Emily slowly walks up to the door. 
She opens it and   a man with a hat and dressed as a min- ister walks in.    Before anyone can say anything, Stanley bursts out in a   loud laugh. The man is slightly built, aged 40 years.    He is JULIUS NQAKULA. STANLEY On your knees, everyone, prayers time. Ben is perplexed.    Emily closes the door and locks it.
Hey man, you should have been a mfundisi holiness oozer...
 Okay, Stanley. It's stupid, but one is forced to do these things. He walks up to Ben and offers him his hand. JULIUS I'm Julius Nqakula... I'm banned and also under house arrest. That's why I have this ridiculous garb on. BEN I understand. STANLEY He's one of the most solid lawyers we have; they've immobilized him, that's the right word isn't it?
BEN Stanley has told me about you. I appreciate the risk you are taking by coming here to meet me. I was reading the notes Gordon smuggled out of John Vorster Square...
May I have a glance at them? Emily produces the notes. Julius takes them. He starts reading the toilet paper, which is harder to read.
GORDON (speaking with great difficulty) 'My dear wife. I am still in these conditions... worse... and too much pain. They don't want to believe me. You must try to help me. They won't stop. You must care for the children. I don't know anymore if I will come home alive. They're very --  -- but God will provide. I love you and I miss you very much. Try to help me because...'
 When did you get the letters? EMILY  The first one two days after they took him away. And the other one came later. BEN But, Emily, why didn't you tell me long ago? EMILY I had given my word to the man -- who brought them to me -- BEN Emily, I have to meet the man. EMILY He said he didn't want anybody to know who he is. I cannot make trouble for him in his work. BEN He has to be persuaded.   He is very important to us. EMILY  You as a lawyer will understand.  
EMILY We intend starting a civil suit against the police, to do that it is necessary to have as many affidavits as we can from people who have any information about Gordon since he was arrested. And this man is vital and so is the Indian doctor. JULIUS You mean Dr. Hassiem. How are you going to do that? You know of course that he is detained.
I know, with luck they may release him. JULIUS With luck. BEN But, Emily, this man is important, please try to tell him we will protect his identity. No one will know. Nothing will be done without his approval. I only want to talk to him. JULIUS Why don't you leave it to Stanley and I? What do you say, Stanley?
Sure.
May I call you Julius, I'm not very good with some African names.
 Nqakula, that's a hell of a name.
Please call me Julius. BEN This case must be reopened and we must win. We have to dig up everything. We need your cooperation, Julius. 
JULIUS Where do I start? Don't forget my restrictions. STANLEY They did not ban you so you could sit on your backside and have a Soweto holiday. BEN You could help with the affidavits. Lewinson the lawyer has stressed their importance. JULIUS We know each other. He's a good lawyer for this kind of case. Of course I'll do what I can. My commitment forces me. BEN I'm glad. JULIUS How   are you planning to safeguard the   documents? Stanley told me you   have already had a said by the   S.B.
I wouldn't worry.    I have a secure place. STANLEY Let's hope so. EMILY I'll make some tea. STANLEY Not for me, Sis -- too strong for me. No whisky? EMILY In my house? You know better than that, Stanley.
Tea then...  ... and God forgive me --
Ben, it's Johan. You'd better come.
 I don't care! It doesn't hurt me! Susan stares at him, at Ben, turns abruptly, walks out of the room. Johan looks at his father.
It was my friends, Dad. They're so stupid... They won't listen. They don't even want to know what you're trying to do. He's crying.
Are you sure you know? 
JOHAN Yes.   I know.
Does it worry you?
Don't stop, Dad. You mustn't give up now!
in a phone box dialing a number. B)   PHONE RINGING, RINGING, on a desk full of scattered files and papers. By the phone a photograph of a six- year-old Indian girl.
... And on the morning of the autopsy, as I was cleaning the mortuary, Captain Stolz gave me a bundle of Ngubene's and ordered me to burn them.
The young man nods.
having a look on the two affidavits before hiding them into the drawer of the stool box.
SUSAN  Call the police, Ben, call the police! Johan's voice comes from his room. JOHAN Papa!    Papa! BEN  It's okay, son... we're all right. Everything's okay! JOHAN What's happened? BEN  It's okay, stay there, please!! Gently, he leads Susan who is sobbing now, out of the room.
 My God. They were trying to kill us. She's seated at the kitchen table. Ben has poured her a brandy which she cups in her hands.
They were trying to scare us, that's all. 
Her fear turns into anger.
 Oh, is that all... What the hell more do you want to happen... we're ordinary people for God's sake -- and you've pitched us into this -- this nightmare. I can't take any more, Ben... I can't take any more!!
 Please, Ben, stop. Just stop... please.
Now you must be exaggerating, Mr. Du Toit.
My house has been searched. My phone is tapped. My mail is opened. And last night three shots were fired through my window -- close to killing my wife. Viljoen reacts.
Mr. Du Toit, if shots were fired into your premises, we will investigate.
All I want to know, Colonel, is why don't you leave me in peace?
VILJOEN Now wait, wait a minute, Mr. Du Toit, you're not trying to blame me? BEN Tell me, Colonel, why is it so important to you people to stop my enquiries about Gordon Ngubene? VILJOEN Is that what you are doing?  Well, now. If you possess any information that may be of use to us, I trust you won't hesitate to discuss it with me. He leans forward towards Ben, his tone darkening. VILJOEN Because if there are facts you are deliberately hiding from us, Mr. Du Toit -- If you give us reason to believe that you may be involved in activities that may be dangerous to both yourself and us -- then I can foresee some problems. BEN Is that a threat, Colonel? VILJOEN (smiling and sitting back) Let's call it a warning. A friendly warning. For God's sake, open your eyes, Mr. Du Toit! Don't you see you're being used!
 By the Communists, I suppose.
BEN Goodbye, Colonel. (at the door, turning back) I'm sure. He leaves.    The colonel immediately picks up the phone.
Mr. Du Toit? Ben nods, hesitatingly.
Please, come in. Ben walks into the living/dining room. It's a    very tidy room with a three piece sitting room suite, a   sideboard with a clock on it. At one end of the room is    the dining area. The floor is linoleum and covered with    a rug in the middle.
 How's it? No trouble finding this place? You met Sadie. She's one of us.
STANLEY And this is Johnson Seroke.    The man of the letters. BEN  Johnson.
Please sit down, Mr. Du Toit. A beer, tea or orange squash?
A beer would be nice.
STANLEY You know they call this place Vrededorp, but we baptize it Malay Camp. Your first time in Malay Camp, Lanie? BEN I've driven through here many times. STANLEY The main road, eh? BEN  Ja.
You know it is. Goodbye, Mr. Du Toit, and you, be careful.
SEROKE  Okay, Sadie. Sadie leaves.
That woman can die for you. We mustn't be long, Johnson has to be back on duty.
Alright, let's get on with it. Stanley tells me, you work at John Vorster Square.
I had no choice, they transferred me there. BEN Yet you smuggled out letters to Emily?
 What do you do if a man asks you, and he's in trouble? STANLEY If they find out he'd be in very big trouble. BEN I know that. Tell me, what do you know about Gordon? SEROKE Very little. BEN You did talk to him from time to time?
He gave me the letters.
When was the last time you saw him? 
SEROKE Just before he died.
Did you attend any of the interrogations?
No. I'm not a member of the Special Branch. But once I had to deliver a letter to Capt. Stolz, Gordon was there. BEN  How were they interrogating him?
It's okay.   Tell him what you told me. BEN  What? SEROKE They were using the pole. BEN The pole, what's that? STANLEY  They handcuff you and manacle your feet then they put a pole between your arms and the back of your knees. Then you're like a chicken ready for the oven. They hang you between two tables. Then they do what they like with you. The S.B. call it the aeroplane. Ben is horrified.
I see. Who were in that room? Stolz...
Lieutenant Venter and a black S.B. 
BEN You are sure?
He's sure.
 It's very interesting. When was the last time you saw him?
 I saw them take the body away to the cells. He was limp.
You did! Johnson, why do you stay with the police? You don't really belong there. SEROKE It's a job. And how can I go away? I love my family. He jumps up and faces Ben with a look of anger and panic. SEROKE They must never know I told you anything. Right? BEN I understand.    I promise.
This is strictly between the three of us. Don't worry, man.
 Take it easy. Stanley goes to the cupboard for another beer.
A beer, Lanie? BEN  No, thank you. You know, Stanley, after what happened the other night I was about to give this whole thing up. 
STANLEY  What happened, man? BEN My wife nearly got killed. Three shots were fired into the house. What right have I to expose my family to harassment and actual physical danger? That's what I asked myself.
Three bloody shots and you crawl on your hands and knees to people like Stolz, and say 'I give up.' What is the beginning for you is a version of what we suffer all our bloody life. Shit, I thought you had more guts than this, man! BEN I didn't say I'm giving up.
But you thought about it. BEN Johnson has revived my determination. STANLEY It's a hell of a time, Lanie, but we'll survive. You and me. I tell you! BEN You think we may still win in the end, Stanley? STANLEY Of course not, Lanie -- but we needn't lose either -- what matters is to stick around.
By the way, man, I'm off on a trip -- Botswana -- thought I'd tell you in case you get worried.
Why are you going there?
STANLEY Business. Tell you next week. Now for the bad news I've been saving to the last. BEN What?
Julius has been arrested. He broke his banning order and visited his sister. You know what that means? At least a year's imprisonment.
A year in jail just for visiting his sister? STANLEY That's the chance he took. And he'll be the last to complain. BEN Don't you think the real reason for this arrest was that they found out he was helping us? STANLEY So what? Lanie, you're not getting guilt complexes now, are you? That's a luxury only liberals can afford. Julius will be back, man. All refreshed by a spell in the deep-freeze. BEN How can we shrug off a man we've been working with? STANLEY Who said we're shrugging him off? Best way of remembering a man, Lanie, is to carry on fighting.
What? BEN I mean not married... MELANIE And living in this chaos with my eccentric father? I love him and we get on perfectly. We have been together since I was a year old. My mother could not adapt to South Africa. She went back to London and we've never heard from her since. BEN Being a professor and bringing up a child, how did he manage that?
Dorothy, dear Dorothy, she was a fantastic mother. In fact she had two families, me and her three children in Alexandra township. BEN And this little girl grew up to be a tough journalist. Why a journalist? MELANIE  Sometimes I ask myself the same question. She leans against the sink and picks up her mug of coffee. 
MELANIE Alright. I'll tell you. I was brought up in a sheltered way, not that Dad was possessive, not openly anyway. I think he'd just seen enough of the mess the world was in, to want to protect me as much as he could. Then, I went to university. I don't know what you'll think... being a teacher.
BEN About what?
Then I married my ex-teacher. BEN Oh.   He must have been young. MELANIE Fifteen years difference. He too protected me like Dad. Then one day I visited Dorothy in Alexandra and saw her home and the appalling conditions in that township. I was shocked, Ben, and ashamed. BEN Go on. Melanie pours him another mug of coffee and starts to wipe up. MELANIE That made me think that I was a parasite, something white and maggot-like... just a thing... a sweet and ineffectual thing. I felt more and more claustrophobic. Poor Brian, who loved and pampered me. Had no idea what was happening. I left him for a whole year and we divorced.
And then you became a journalist?
MELANIE I thought it would force me, or help me, to expose myself. To force me to see and to take notice of what was happening around me.
Did it work? She returns to the kitchen with a cigarette.
I wish I could give you a straight answer. What did help me was my wanderings in Africa.
How did you manage that on a South African passport? We South Africans are white devils in Africa. MELANIE My mother was English, remember? So I get a British passport. It comes in handy even for the paper. BEN You really are your father's daughter! MELANIE I wonder what he's doing right now. Most likely standing on a rock, looking through his old binoculars at springbok or a lion or whatever. One of the two large CATS approaches them, tail in the air, and goes to Melanie, drubbing against her legs, PURRING luxuriously. She picks it up into her arms. BEN How often does he go on these trips to the veldt?
It depends -- (approaching Ben with cat) -- Bonjour, Ben. I'm Porto and my friend is Bello! Ben smiles and starts to caress Porto in Melanie's arms.
Don't you touch me! Venter pulls back. The women start to ululate. Emily rises majestically, takes the youngest in her arms and walks slowly to the truck followed by her daughter. People cluster around her, singing with rage and shaking her hand. Stolz observes the scene, impassive. WOMAN Come back!    Buya! CROWD  Buya!   Buya! Emily and the children are helped onto the back of the truck which drives away preceded by the police "hippo" and escorted from the rear by the Land Rovers. The crowd continues singing.
He turns furtively and sees the man, stopped, turning his head. Ben decides to turn the corner, and listens to the FOOTSTEPS. The man is still following. Ben then decides to turn right back to have a good look at the man. They pass each other and Ben takes a good look at him and turns back onto the streets to the local shops. The man decides not to follow.
 She's a widow, man. That's what happens in Soweto when a woman loses her man. They throw her out of the house and out of the city. BEN  Zululand! The whole thing smells of being an excuse to send her hundreds of miles from the case. And how will they live there?... STANLEY Shit! I was about to find her a place, but I had to go to look for Robert. BEN So, that's why you went to Botswana for. STANLEY Sis Emily asked me but it was no use. His mind was made up. He was going to join Wellington in Zambia.
Couldn't you stop him?   He's a little boy, Stanley!
 He'll be back in a few years.     And he won't be throwing stones! Then, puts the empty glass on the desk.
 Good evening. I'd like to invite you into my humble home, but it's full of terrorists.
 Open the boot! You cheeky bastard! STANLEY Okay, with pleasure. They search and find nothing. JAIMIE Open the door and remove the seat. Stanley executes the order. Jaimie and the OTHER POLICE- MAN peer in, their eyes sweeping the car.
Now, your pass, bliksem.
You watch your bloody step!     Right?
SUSAN  Ben, please stop whilst there's time. Please, Ben. BEN  It's impossible to stop now, Susan. I believe I'm right in what I'm doing. If I stop now I'll go mad.
 Whatever the price you pay for it? BEN  I have got to.
Think of your heritage, man. My God -- think of your wife, your family, friends, neighbors. What's going to happened to them -- all of us -- if we can't depend on our own kind? We're educationalists -- teachers. We are building for the future.
Without simple justice we don't deserve a future. CLOETE We're Boers, man -- Afrikaners. We are your nation. What's justice for us is justice -- period! 
CLOETE Traitors like you are threatening centuries of Afrikaner sacrifice. BEN That last remark was slanderous -- I'm simply being faithful to the truth. CLOETE Slanderous? My God, man, you slander a whole people. He walks silently through the office then continues.
You have given me no alternative. I have to abide by the regulations of the Department of Education -- so I have made my report. And there will have to be a formal inquiry. But until such time... BEN  It won't be necessary, Mr. Cloete. I'll send you my resignation. CLOETE Thank you for making things much easier. Ben stares at him for a moment, then turns to leave.    As he reaches the door, Cloete says: CLOETE And it would be better if Johan left too. Ben turns to stare at him, amazed.
Are you serious? CLOETE He's a Kaffir-lover too, isn't he? The color drains from Ben's face. Then he steps forward, slaps Cloete thunderously across the face, hurling him back into his chair, and strides out, leaving the door ajar.
VIVIERS Oom Ben, I was waiting for you. I have something interesting to tell you. BEN (striding on towards his car) Later, Viviers.
 But, Oom Ben, it's about the S.B. they came to question me. Before they started questioning me I told them they were wasting their time. Ben doesn't react. VIVIERS They asked if I was cooperating with you. What I knew about the A.N.C. Can you imagine that! They then said: 'Mr. Viviers you come from a good Afrikaans family and it's important that you realize that communists are looking for people like you and before you know where you are they're using you! And, Oom Ben...
 I have just resigned.
 What...?
Was last year's turkey as big as this, Papa? BEN About the same size. SUZETTE Do you remember the turkey I had for Easter? You said it was as big as a baby ostrich, Papa. BEN I don't remember that, Suzette.
You know, Johan, when I was a boy in the Karoo, we used to fry ostrich eggs. You know how big they are? JOHAN  As big as this table. BEN  I think he deserves the parson's nose for that remark. They laugh. Susan laughs. She does her best to compose. Suddenly... a KNOCK at the outside kitchen door. As Ben turns towards the door it opens and...
STANLEY (obviously surprised by this family scene) Oh! (then grinning and laughing thunderously) Merry Christmas, everyone! There's deadly quiet -- not even the clink of a spoon -- as the Du Toits look on aghast.
'Lanie'... compliments of the season, old mate. BEN Stanley.   What are you doing here? Before Stanley answers, the Father-in-law gets up from his chair and goes to the kitchen. FATHER-IN-LAW Who's this Kaffir, Ben? STANLEY  Why don't you tell the Boer who this Kaffir is? BEN Shut up, Stanley.  That's all right. I'll...
 A Kaffir calling me a Boer?
Ben, did you hear that?   Call the police, Ben! BEN  Please, go to the table.  Stanley, wait outside. 
STANLEY  Who are these people, anyway? BEN Stanley, this is still my house.
Let me throw him out. Ben steps between them and pushes Chris back into the dining room. STANLEY  Let him try, leave him, Lanie.
 Please leave me with him.   I'll explain everything later. FATHER-IN-LAW Nothing has changed in this house. Mother, let's go! He strides into the dining room. Susan sits   with her eyes tight shut -- trying to shut out the horror   of it all. As the Father-in-law goes into the living   room, he pulls back his wife's chair and helps her to her   feet. FATHER-IN-LAW  Let's leave this house. I've been sworn at by a Kaffir and Ben protects him.
 Chris!
 Lanie! Ever in your fucking life seen such a stampede, hah?
 Maybe you think it's funny, Stanley, but I don't. Do you realize what you've done?  Come into the dining room. Stanley follows Ben slowly, swaying.
 Jeez, who was that old cunt with the potbelly and black suit, looks like an undertaker?
My father-in-law.  M.P. STANLEY  You joking!  Shit! I fucked it all up for you. Sorry, man.
Now pull yourself together, Stanley. It's not funny at all! What's the matter with you today? You're drunk and making an idiot of yourself. Say what you've come to say. Otherwise, go to hell! Stanley's laughter changes into a broad grin. He sur- veys the table and takes a bit of turkey from a plate and starts to eat it quietly.
STANLEY  Right. Dead right. Put the Kaffir in his place. Ben grabs him by the shoulders and starts to shake him.
Bloody hell! Stanley, what's wrong with you?
STANLEY Emily is dead.
Emily dead?   How?   When? Stanley doesn't answer - he cries.
What happened, Stanley?      Oh, my God. Please tell me. STANLEY  A broken heart. All they said.
God. Through the window, he sees Suzette and Chris carrying suitcases, back down the path to his in-laws' car; Father-In-Law shepherding his wife and an ashen, dazed Susan, helping them into the car.
MELANIE They don't know what you've got and you're a danger to them. I know there's a point of no return, but with our system, one has to plot the route with care.
That's the main reason for coming here tonight. Melanie, I need your help. Without Emily, we can't pursue our civil suit. The only thing left open to us is to expose them through the press, and the media here and abroad.
And your safety also, Ben, lies in the press.  That way the world will know the brutality and power of our security services; here questions can be asked in Parliament. And the white public can appreciate the implications of the fascist laws of this country. BEN You know, Melanie, I'm discovering that the enemy is not in Soweto. The enemy is ourselves. Our bigotry, our laws, our system. We have our own fight and it's just beginning. MELANIE We better win before the blacks have won. Ben and Melanie laugh.
Now, before going to the press, I have to have all the documents. I must have two vital affidavits; Dr. Hassiem's, he's detained and Jonathan's friend, Wellington has fled to Zambia.
Zambia? I'm going to Rhodesia... I can go to Zambia. 
BEN  Could you? MELANIE And I can use my British passport. I know my way around Lusaka.
That would be very useful.
This calls for a drink.    Gin and tonic?
Please. As Melanie walks away, Ben looks at her with admiration and tenderness... her dress swinging around her legs... her bare feet soundless on the floor... the quiet grace of her movement. On the way to the kitchen to get the drinks, Melanie goes to the record player. There's a record already on the turntable.
Melanie.   Be careful.
 Of course, Ben. She goes into the kitchen.
EMPTY_LINE
MELANIE Cheers!
Do be careful. I wouldn't want you hurt. She reaches for his hand.
 Don't worry.
And hurry back. A new track starts on the RECORD. MELANIE  That's my favorite, Ben.
I can't dance. MELANIE Rugger player? They laugh as they start to dance to the slow BLUES MUSIC. The laughing subsides as they hold each other closer. The dancing starts to lose the beat of the music. They look into each other's eyes and Ben envel- ops her tenderly in his arms hugging her as close as possible against him. They stop dancing.     Ben kisses her.   A long, warm and tender kiss.
Listen, you... Just then a LADY and her daughter hurry to the man, push- ing a trolley. Man turns to look at Ben. WOMAN Darling, put that down, it's not good for your cholesterol. BEN  I'm sorry, my mistake.
-- How's she doing? SUZETTE Better... She's waiting for you to ask her to come home.
I doubt it.
She turns to Ben, squinting in the sun.
Papa, I don't want to interfere... BEN Then don't.
SUZETTE I know this is going to sound strange coming from me... I mean I haven't exactly been supportive for the past months... I can't say I agree with what you've done but I respect you for what you are... ON Johan listening. SUZETTE I'm just... destroyed by what's happening to us as a family.
Suzette... SUZETTE (interrupts, squeezing his arm.) Please, Papa, for Mom's sake... For all of our sakes... Let's try and patch it up.
SUZETTE Let me know if there's anything I can do to help. BEN Thanks.   I'm glad you understand.
SUZETTE I don't want to worry about you. That search, this vandalism, those shots... they're really after the evidence you've been accumulating ... Can I look after them for you, Papa?
BEN You don't have to worry.   They'll never find them. SUZETTE  Where on earth do you keep them? ON Johan looking at Suzette then at Ben with concern. Ben has parked his car in a street corner of the upmarket section of the Asian township. He peers around him, then walks away. Ben knocks at a door. The door is opened cautiously by DR. HASSIEM, a tall, handsome Indian, aged 35 years. His clothes are casual but expensive. His six-year-old daughter, large dark eyes, is clinging to his leg. We recognize the little girl of the photograph near the telephone, from earlier.
Dr. Hassiem? I'm Ben Du Toit. I'm a friend of Gordon Ngubene's...
 The inquest is over, Mr. Du Toit.
Not for me, Doctor. I've got to know what happened to Gordon.
I only came home yesterday. After three months in detention and now I'm banned and confined to the house. There's nothing I can do for you.
The little girl still clinging to his leg, watching Ben.
I know it may be painful to you, Doctor, but I need to talk to you.
How can I be sure you weren't actually sent by them? BEN Ask Emily. Doctor, we are in the process of filing a civil claim. And your help is vital.
Come in. Ben walks into the large living room, tastefully furnished.
Sit down. Ben is still looking 'round at the opulence.       He sits in a chair. BEN Thank you for inviting me in. DR. HASSIEM (the little girl on his knees) What do you want to know?
Just one thing, Doctor. Why did you sign the State Pathologist's report on the autopsy if you drew up your own report as well? DR. HASSIEM  What makes you think I signed Dr. Jansen's report. BEN The report produced in court had both your signatures on it. 
DR. HASSIEM Impossible.
What did you write in your report?
Dr. Jansen and I didn't disagree on the facts. After all we examined the same body in the same time. But just on the interpretation. For example, if Gordon, had really been hanged, the marks on his throat would have been concentrated on the front. (he touches his larynx) But in this case, the bruises were more obvious on the sides. Pause.   Ben nods, silent. DR. HASSIEM Something else really upset me, perhaps it isn't important. BEN What was it?
 You see, through a misunderstanding I arrived at the morgue too early for the autopsy. There wasn't a soul around except a young African attendant. When I told him I'd come for the autopsy, he let me in. The body was on the table dressed. I noticed blood on the clothes.
And then?
As I examined the clothes more closely, a police-officer came in and said I wasn't allowed in the morgue before Dr. Jansen arrived. When I returned with Dr. Jansen, half an hour later, the body was naked. 
BEN  Doctor, we've already got the African attendant's affidavit. He testified that Capt. Stolz ordered him to burn the clothes.  Did you mention what you said in your report? DR. HASSIEM Of course.   I found it most odd. BEN Doctor Hassiem would you be prepared to put that in writing?
Please excuse me for a minute. Ben watches him leave the room, the little girl following him. He gets up from the chair, walks to the window, glances through it, then steps to look at some family photographs on the mantlepiece. Amongst them a photograph of Dr. Hassiem before "Big Ben." Dr. Hassiem returns with a file, the daughter still following.
 This is my report. I only have one copy.
 You have a copy of the report?
DR. HASSIEM I know how to hide things from the S.B., Mr. Du Toit. Ben congratulates him by a deep laughter.
On Dr. Hassiem's desk we recognize next to the phone, the little girl's photograph.
I hope you have as secure a place as I have.
 I think so.
 We have it, Stanley! STANLEY Have what? BEN Hassiem's report. You know what that means, Stanley? Melanie arrives in two days. We'll have all the evidence. Everything is in place. We'll get them yet, especially Stolz. STANLEY That's fantastic, man.
 God!   It's Johnson Seroke.
STANLEY Late at night. A knock on the door. He opened and five shots, point-blank range. Face, chest, stomach.
 'A police spokesman when questioned said: "It's not the first time that a black member of the police has lost his life in the service of his country, fighting terrorism." (folding paper in disgust) Bloody bastards! They killed him. Stolz must have thought he knew too much. STANLEY What's the score? The nurse is detained; the mortuary attendant has disappeared; the police van driver who brought Jonathan to hospital is detained. Julius is in jail, and now Johnson dead. BEN Who's next on their secret list, I wonder? How much longer must the list grow of those who pay the price of our efforts to clear Gordon's name.
Hey! Are you going soft, Lanie? We must keep going even more so now. And for every bloke who's going to die of bloody natural causes in their hands. And for our children's future.
I know. If I can no longer believe that right is on my side, if I can no longer believe in imperative to go on, what will become of me, Stanley? Ben looks at Johnson's picture again and shakes his head.
On the photograph a naked man and a girl on a bed and a bedside lamp on its side. The man is Ben and the girl is Melanie. Stolz in sports jacket, standing next to the desk is speaking... patronizing.
We're all made of flesh and blood, Mr. Du Toit -- we've all got our flaws. And if a man likes to sample the grass on the other side of the fence, well, that's his own business. But it would be unpleasant if people found out about it, especially if he's a teacher. BEN You mean, if I cooperate, if I stop digging, embarrassing you, threatening you... these photographs will disappear.
Let's just say I may be able to use my influence to make sure that a private indiscretion isn't used against you. BEN Suppose I refuse? Stolz looks past Ben. STOLZ Is this your son?
Johan, leave us alone, please.
Don't you think this business has gone long enough?
BEN That's for you people to decide. Isn't it? I won't be blackmailed, Captain -- not even by you. STOLZ Mind if I smoke?
 Now be honest. Has all the evidence you've been collecting in connection with Gordon Ngubene brought you closer to the truth you are looking for? BEN Yes, I think so and there's more to come. A pause. STOLZ I really hoped we could talk man-to-man.
It's not possible, Captain.    Not between you and me. STOLZ It's high time, Mr. Du Toit, we allowed the dead to rest in peace. I'm offering you a chance.
You mean my very last chance?
One never knows. It may not be important to you, but we have to survive.
If we can only survive through murder and torture, then we have forfeited our right to exist.
STOLZ Is that your final answer?
Before you go. I'll tell this, Captain. I have a pretty good idea of what I will eventually uncover. I mean the truth. And I won't allow anyone or anything to come between me and that truth.
Here's my card -- my private line. If you should change your mind... Let's say before the end of the week? BEN Goodbye, Captain, and don't forgt the photograph. Stolz picks up the photograph and puts it into his briefcase.
 Be careful, Mr. Du Toit. There are people who can make things very difficult for you. BEN They are wasting their time. They just can't hurt me anymore. I trust you'll give them the message, Captain.
 A brandy, Papa?
 A gin and tonic would be fine.
Excuse me, I'm waiting for a lady with a red dress. Are there still, many people to come? INDIAN WOMAN I did see her. She was ahead of me. Maybe she's still in there. BEN Thank you. Just then an OFFICIAL walks out of the door.   Ben hurries to him. BEN Excuse me. OFFICIAL Can I help you?
I'm waiting for a passenger, Miss Bruwer. She's taking a rather long time to be cleared.
What did you say her name was?
Melanie Bruwer. OFFICIAL I'll go and check. 
The Official hurries back.
Is there any other exit, Papa? BEN No. They have to collect their luggage and pass through customs. JOHAN  Maybe she can't find her bag. BEN  That's possble.
Afternoon, Meneer Du Toit.   Johan, isn't it?
What now, Captain?
Word came to me that you were asking after your very good friend, Miss Bruwer. You know, subersives come in all guises and can be very resourceful. Now let's take your friend, she has been using her privilege as a journalist to endanger the security of this country. But you know something else? She has been secretly holding a British passport. A South African passport and a British pasport. Now you tell me, where is her patriotism? Her allegiance? The minister telexed to the immigration officers here declaring her an undesirable immigrant. So she is being put on the first available plane to London. This must be heart- breaking for you. Good afternoon, Meneer Du Toit, Johan. Stolz walks back.
BEN  Let's go home, Johan. JOHAN I don't understand, Papa...
 I'll explain later.
Thank you, son. You did a man's job. CUT TO:
Before him, scattered on the table: the affidavits he collected, the Hassiem report, cuttings of articles by Melanie in the Rand Daily Mail about Jonathan, newspaper pictures of Gordon, of Seroke, of himself with Emily, the half-burnt "peace painting" of Picasso, half-burnt photo of Ben with Suzette, a staff photograph, Ben amongst it, and a charred trophy.
 Good old Melanie!
CUT TO:
Johan gets on the bike and rides out.
Meneer du Toit, tonight we're coming to kill you. Ben replaces the receiver obviously shaken.     He becomes aware of FOOTSTEPS approaching the kitchen.     Ben is terrified. A KNOCK at the door and the door swings open:     it's Stanley. STANLEY  What's happened, man?
 It's you. It was a bomb.
And the papers?
Don't worry. Safe. Thanks to Johan. Incidentally, I have Wellington's affidavit. Melanie found him. She's being deported. The official reason is that she possessed a British passport. I don't know how she managed to smuggle the envelope to me.
Man, it's all happening!
STANLEY Like a joint?
No, thanks.
 What's so funny?
 They drop the bomb on you! Ben walks up to him puts his hand on his shoulder. There's an understanding trace of a smile on his face.
 How are you, Suzette? 
SUZETTE  Okay, Papa. BEN Would you like a drink?
No, thanks. Without taking his eyes off her, he takes a brown envelope from a chair and pushes it slowly towards the uncomfor- table Suzette. She picks up the envelope.
 I have to go, Papa. BEN  I know.
Look after them.
 I see you got the goodies.
SUZETTE  I was on my way to your office, Colonel. STOLZ We thought we'd save you the trouble, Mrs. Klopper. She hands Viljoen the envelope.
Here it is, Colonel. VILJOEN Thank you. This country needs more people like you. SUZETTE I must hurry, Colonel.   Goodbye. She drives off. CUT TO: Stolz gets into the car as Colonel Viljoen starts open- ing the brown envelope. VILJOEN Now let's see what we've got. CUT TO:
Ben Du Toit
The bastard! CUT TO:
Johan turns, sees Stanley, and with a grin makes thumbs- up sign which happy Stanley returns with his large thumb. Johan cycles away followed by Stanley.
Ben looks at his watch. He goes to the cash desk and pays. He walks slowly out of the cafe. Stands at the door to find his car keys; the rain has emptied the street. Ben turns up his collar and waits for a break in the traffic. CUT TO:
