Alpha One, you're confirmed 'go': active UAV at GPS papa, zulu, three, zero.
Activate laser mic.
Is it him?
Four males, one of them's speaking with a.. I think it's a Rakhshanidialect, consistent with our intel on Al=Khoei.
Gimme voiceprint analysis. The screen pops to an AUDIO WAVEFORM of the conversation. VOICEPRINT ANALYSIS finishes, the; screen shows a FILE PHOTO of a
I'm not taking 37% to-the President... John, weigh in here? He looks to a plasma: the PRESIDENT'S CABINET is assembled via teleconference from the White House Situation Room:
Sire they're pulling off the highway.
We have abort recommendation. The ANALYSIS ARRAY reads: "RECOINDATION: ABORT MISSION." The source of this recommendation, for now, remains a mystery.
If it's him, this guy comes out of hiding once in a lifetime, we can't let him go.
 Alright, stay with him...
THE SATELLITE VIEW shows the caravan approaching the commune.
We've got AK-47's, RPC's, Chaparral guided missiles --
Looks like a training camp. THE DESERT: Bodyguards cluster around a TURBANED:MAN as he emerges from the Mercedes. It looks a lot like the man from the file photo, but the beard makes it hard to confirm. MID-AIR WITH THE UAV: It SWOOPS, targeting the man -- SNAP: THE PENTAGON: a BLURRY SNAPSHOT of his FACE appears. A DIGITAL WIRE-FRAME is overlaid on the man's face: "5I$ PROBABLE MATCH -
51%. 'Abort' rec holds. THE DESERT: Now our guy DISAPPEARS into the crowd as they begin MOVING toward a large WOODEN PLANK on the desert floor. Some of the men take hold of the plank, drag it back to reveal... a PIT. THE PENTAGON: SAME IMAGE in real-time on the feeds:
What is that, a weapons cache?
Sir, the placement of stones around the pit, markers for the Five Pillars of Islam... I think it's a funeral. Everyone trades looks -- this just got even more complicated. THE DESERT: from the back of a TENTED TRUCK, a BODY is lifted, shrouded in white. The men carry it through blowing sand... the procession stopping at the pit. They begin lowering the body... THE PENTAGON: on monitors, a section of the GENEVA CONVENTION
Sir, striking a funeral would put us in violation of the Geneva convention.
Once this guy's gone, he's gone. The PENTAGON GENERAL COUNCIL pipes in --
I have POTUS calling from Air Force One.
. Everyone agree this is the best course of action? No one dissents. Callister picks up:
Mr. President, we have.a.51% identity match on Majid Al-Khoei. There is some possibility he's at a funeral, but we don't know. Regardless, counsel thinks we can claim 'Overriding Legal Authority.' Also, you should be aware we have an abort recommendation, but your cabinet, the Speaker, the Joint Chiefs urge a 'go.'
You left yourself out of the lineup. Callister pauses. AS THE MESSAGE ON THE MONITOR STARTS
Yessir... we gauge our strategy by two standards: the highest probability of success with the least amount of collateral damage. At 51% probability, we don't have either one.
And if it is Al-Khoei and he walks, Sir, we're putting our people at risk. There's a long silence as the President considers.
I respect your caution, Geoff, but we won't get another chance like this... you have a green light. Callister's obviously opposed, but he bites his tongue:
Understood.  We're weapons free. And with deadly calm, Techies execute orders into-headsets:
damnit...
You gotta make a choice. You gotta move--
-- I know.
Now. Who are you gonna be? So Jerry makes his move, which we see is SLAMMING down a PLAYING CARD representing a group of DWARVES. He sits across from KWAME, 17. They're playing a geeky role-playing CARD and DICE game, CASH on the table.
there. Dwarves?: Bullshit -- Bullshit? I just blocked your ass and attacked with Ancient Mastery points. --.dwarves don't have that -- -- read the oracle text, my friend. -- shit A thick-mascara/black lipstick BECKY enters, removing her SMOCK:
You know what would be great? If you guys took a longer break. That'd be awesome.
Hey, Becky? When're you going to start wearing makeup? Kwame laughs as Becky tosses her smock at Jerry:
.The collator's broken.
Dude: no its not.
 Oh yeah it is, dude! She heads out as Jerry collects the cash. Kwame puts on his own smock as Jerry offers him a quick lesson:
Your first mistake? Underestimating dwarves. Power can come from anywhere -- tomorrow night I'll give you first roll and a bonus pack if y--
I'm not gonna be here tomorrow, remember? I'm going to Cornell. And Jerry stops. A hit to the solar plexus. Wherever we are, this kid's off to a bright future. But not Jerry.
That -- wow. Good for you. So it's your last night. You're gonna spend it collating.
-- what? But she said the collator's broken.
And that's why we have those rubber thimbles in the drawer --.congratulations on Cornell, though, that's huge! TRACK WITH HIM out to... A COUNTER AREA as, he pins on his NAMETAG: "JERRY." Rows of COPY MACHINES and COMPUTER CUBICLES. He takes his place behind a register. Smiles, getting it up:
Welcome to Kinko's, how can I help you? The CHUGCLICK-CHUGCLICK-CHUGCLICK sound of the machines gets louder and louder as they BECOME THE SOUND OF:
a heightened terror alert due to a series of suicide bombings, believed to be in retaliation for a deadly attack outside Abadan that killed forty people. Though the White House has denied involvement, Shia leaders have denounced the U.S. as responsible... AL-JAZEERA FOOTAGE: A SHIA SPOKESMAN is translated into ENGLISH:
Your embassies were only the beginning! Our warriors are already within your borders. Until American leadership is removed from power, Allah's revenge is upon you! And during all this, Jerry notices something: people are glancing at each other aranoid. What a fucking world...
Jerry.
Whatever are you cooking right now? Is the greatest thing I've ever smelled in my life, I swear to God --
is schab wieprzowy po polsku -- you have the rent, yes?
 -- here's some of it -- most of it -- but I've got something else for you... something special... Eyebrows bobbing. Mrs. Wierzbowsky knows exactly what it is. Sighs. Knows she can't resist him --
So I think. No, I'm pretty sure that's the best one so far ---
Yes. Is good -- rent is better. She puts a bowl of STEW into Jerry's hands.
You are hungry, I am guessing.
Oh, no, no. I couldn't --  Unless, you know, you insist. He sits at the table, starts eating. This is their routine.
So where is girl? I don't see her?
Oh, the redhead? No. She... that's over. She got smart.
Like the others.
Well, womenareIpretty smart. I've discovered.
You are like Johann. Jerry stops eating, mouth full. As Johann looks up.
Your -- I'm like your dog?
Look at him. Is big dog. Labrador. But he believe... he is terrier. So is Labrador... but no labrador. Somehow Jerry can't get his eyes off Johann. Quietly:
why do you think that is? As she pours a drink into a plastic cup --
Perhaps many things. When I rescue Johann from pound, they say he was abuse.
As puppy. They kick him when baby, make him feel not big.  You need someone for rescuing you. Jerry looks at her, sad-smiles. Takes a sip and holy shit:
This is -- vodka -- Jesus, its eight- thirty in the morning --
-- you cannot eat bigos without vodka. Adjusting to it, Jerry drinks again -- as his CELL PHONE RINGS. He looks at his phone, freezing. Mrs. Wierzbowski notices.
Is the girl? Answer. Tell her you'. are Labrador. Then ask if she give you money for rent. But we've PUSHED IN on Jerry, who stares at the name on the phone. Something's affecting him deeply. He says, quietly:
its my mother.
Is problem?
 is problem.
Hey, mom... Jerry stands there in silhouette. LISTENING. Something is happening... .suddenly he loses his balance -- sinks to the floor, phone to his ear -- staring in pain --
-- no! I-- I'm not him! All eyes on him. His voice, sad, heartbroken:
It's okay! I'm not Paul! Locks eyes with his MOTHER and FATHER up in the front pew. Their eyes red from crying, withered shells. And Jerry gives a lame wave before heading reluctantly up to the COFFIN. Devastated, he leans in -- and we MOVE AROUND to see the body: And it's fucking HIM -- Jerry's very own face, but one that seems to have been RECONSTRUCTED after some kind of accident. Gruesome and handsome all at once. This was PAUL SHAW. Jerry's identical twin. Off the surreal moment... A reverbed TRUMPET PLAYS, the tune familiar. In fact, it's:
Okayokay... okay: we came home, put down the leftovers, you turned on the TV, I went over, I said no TV-- She turns to the TV area and walks straight INTO a table. Stuns her, momentarily, but she doesn't break stride --
-- we're gonna be late, huh?
-- absolutely not -- I turned it off, came over here, checked messages, put the leftovers in the--
--knocked over the phone-- --right, knocked over the phone, put it back, put the food in the fridge-- She opens the fridge: HER KEYS sit atop a Tupperware container. Kyle hits a high note and we SLAM TO:
we need to get a new car --
I like your car. We're gonna be late. The engine still SPLIT-SPUT-SPUTTERING.::.. a BUS. whizzes by, slows up ahead at a bus stop. Rachel gives up, jumps out:
No we're not: the bus.
-- are you kidding?
I put vitamins in your toiletry bag, don't forget to take two in the morning --
and one at night, I know --
And your inhaler, which I may need to use now, is in the outside pocket -- wait! They rush back to a MAILBOX, she pulls bills from her purse:
More bills?
Yup -- that's what happens when you have a kid on lay-away. They smile at each other. When SUDDENLY a BUS ROARS PAST the WIND GUSTS and the bills go FLYING into traffic:
As she chases the bills, SCREECHING and HONKING around her:
You swore again. Was that our bus? Rachel looks: PAN to across the street, the bus is now LEAVING THE BUS STOP. PAN back to Rachel: SHIT!!
Okay, now were gonna.be late. She puts fingers in her mouth and WHISTLES HARD for a cab --
Scuze us, coming through, sorry -- WAIT!!
Finally they arrive. Kyle's teacher, MRS. MILLER, smiles:
Under the wire --
 Hi -- sorry -- Rachel Holloman, we met--
-- of course, Barbara Miller.  You should probably -- And Rachel's stomach drops. Knows they've been racing towards this moment all morning but still not willing to accept it. Turning Kyle to face her --
Okay. Now. I want you to have an awesome time --
I will, mom --
-- you can eat junk food, just remember to brush your teeth; and if you're gonna goof off, just be really smart about it; and try not to stay up past your bedtime, you get really cranky when you do that'--  He gets very contrarian if he doesn't get at least eight --
I'm afraid it's time to board, Mrs. Holloman. Tears springing to Rachel's eyes. She tries to hide them. Bending down to be eye to eye with her son. Sotto --
You see all these kids? They're all calling their mothers. You just do it more --
It's only two days,: mom. Y'know... you could try and some have fun too, wouldn't kill ya..
Fun? What's that?  I love you so much, baby.You're my everything. Rock the house.
-- love you too -- They separate -- she watches as Kyle boards with Mrs. Miller:
Call me!
Your mom gonna be okay?
It's unclear. As they head into the train, Rachel steels herself and GOES. Passing the BAGGAGE AREA...
We HOLD as the PORTER places Kyle's TRUMPET CASE on a conveyor belt. Oddly, it's ELECTRONICALLY REDIRECTED AWAY FROM THE OTHER INSTRUMENTS -- down a separate belt, where it emerges in a pick- up turnstile. Its lifted off the track by... A MIDDLE EASTERN MAN. Nervous. Really nervous. And the strangest thing -- he touches his ear and MURMURS something in Tajiki. To no one. Like a crazy person. What the hell? Walks to the curb where his white van idles. On the side is a decal: "HASSAD DRY CLEANERS." Loads the trumpet inside as we:
you didn't know either?
No idea.
I knew he had a brother. But not a twin, that was...
I know, I know... Four WOMEN sit together. Heartbroken, unsettled. One glances across into a sitting room, where Jerry sits alone on a sofa. We're CLOSE on Jerry now. Holding a glass, etched with hearts. Looking at it as if it means something. Somehow, his childhood. He looks up at the stairs, as if knowing he needs to go up there. So he does. We MOVE with him:
when was the last time they saw him?
Margaret said years...
It's WILLIAM. Their father. The worst day of this man's life. Jerry composes himself quickly. They stare for a moment.
Six months without a boo or a bah.
Didn't realize it'd been that long.
Your mom was worried. So where were you this time?
Nowhere.  Singapore. Alaska for a few weeks. got a job for a while. On a...fishing boat. Met some great p-
-- that's nice. Looks like you're really seeing the world.
I'm trying, you know, just to -- But William has just started crying.. Sobs of absolute loss. Jerry stands there, frozen, until William EMBRACES HIM. Jerry hugs him back -- tightly, grateful and starting to feel again. And just then, William says, quietly, through tears:
You sound just like him. Jerry's eyes find a point in space. This is love by proxy. And now he hugs, his father in support, not unity. William pulls back. Takes his wallet from his pocket:
I want to give you some, uh...
No. -- Dad, I'm okay. I'm doing really well. I promise. His father holds out some bills. North of two-hundred dollars. It's a stand-off. The question is: does Jerry have enough pride to reject the offer? And the answer is...
AND WE PUNCH IN TIGHTER ON JERRY, WHO STARES, STUNNED. The screen reads: "BALANCE: $750,000.00" What the HELL? Glances back to the people behind him, they want him to hurry. He hits "Cancel." But the machine, as if disobeying, spits out five $100 bills--
-- whoa -- Jerry stabs cancel again. Now TEN MORE $100 bills-come out. He glances at the people in line, nervous--
-- two seconds, sorry -- Eyes flick back to the ATM CAMERA. He covers it with his hand, pushes "cancel" again and again. But now.. TEN THOUSAND DOLLARS IN $100 BILLS HAS COME OUT, getting JAMMED' in the slot. People start to PEER OVER as Jerry SCRAMBLES to keep the cash from flying everywhere. And finally. The machine stops. He stuffs all the money in his pocket. Everyone's staring.
Big date. So... fingers crossed.
Jerry! All day they make delivery! Jerry moves fast to her, a little out of breath -- shoves a thousand dollars into her hand:
Here's the rest of the rent -- next month's, too --
-- where do you get this?
Just take it -- it's okay, I owe you --
I had to open your apartment, too many packages come, they come for hours --
For me?
-- hello? A WOMAN'S VOICE. We can't place why... but it's really creepy.
Look out your window. They're coming for you.
 -- what? Who is this?
Jerry. You have to run.
Who the hell is this?! Rips back the curtain to see a SWAT VAN SCREECHING UP -- a flack- jacketed TEAM pours out, assault rifles ready. Jerry goes pale.
Leave your residence. Get to the Mathis train station. You have 4 minutes.
Jesus Christ -- what's happening?!
Run, or you'll be captured and convicted -- go NOW. CLICK. POUNDING BOOTS AGAINST PAVEMENT OUTSIDE. Jerry whirls, goes out to the hall, hears THEM coming. Starts to run. But a
Look, man, I don't know what this is -- I don't know how all that shit got in my apartment, but unless you're my lawyer--
My condolences. I understand you've had a tough day.
it hasn't been ideal.
Your brother worked for the State Department. This was almost a question. And while it's obviously news to us, Jerry clearly knew...
You tell me.
Were you close?
Why? What am I doing here. I don't even know who you are. Morgan tosses his black leather BADGE WALLET onto the metal table. It lands open with a substantial CLUNG!
Tom Morgan, Special Agent attached to the National Counterterrorism Center.
 Counterterrorism Center? You think I'm --
-- according to phone records, your brother called you twelve times in the last year. You never called him back.
If you're asking if we were the kind of freaky twins you see at the mall wearing the same shirt, no. Listen, Paul traveled a lot, so we didn't --
Oh. That's right. He stamped visas in Karachi for a year. Then was a junior FSO in Beirut. Interesting places.
What're you... saying.
I'm just saying you didn't talk much. maybe you did.
Am I getting a lawyer here? 'Cause didn't hear my rights read to me--
You familiar with the slogan, "Declare War on War?"
what? No, why? Morgan pulls out a SURVEILLANCE PHOTO: Jerry, college-age, at a STUDENT RALLY holding up a sign with an image of the Pentagon crossed out in red: "DECLARE WAR ON WAR!"
Because you painted it when you were part of the student activist group "Project Underground" at Berkley.
 Wait. Come on -- okay: her name was Julia, she was the smokinist girl I'd ever seen and she wanted me -- I would've gone to an "Anti-Oxygen" rally for her. I swear to God, dude--
Don't "dude" me. I'm not your friend. I don't have friends... so: Jerry. Why'd you drop out of school?
Why'd you stay in? I don't know, I didn't really see the point.
You haven't been able to hold a job
Unless I've been fired from Kinko's, which is a statistical impossibility, I'm holding a job right now.
Construction work, bartender in Singapore, telemarketing, real estate office, messenger, supermarket sign painter, taxi driver, gas station in Florida, fishing boat in Alaska--
-- what can I say? Guess I haven't found myself yet --
Who deposited the seven-fifty?
For as second I thought God, maybe. The ATM was obviously broken -- or do.. accidents not happen in your . universe?
The money originated from the --this is all -- listen, this HSBC bank of Singapore -- is all very interesting -- but opened with a transfer from a this has nothing to do with corporation called 'The Star me! Do you understand? of Orion,' a dummy front for Hezbollah. This morning Majid -- alright, this is insane, I Al-Khoei says the agents.of want a lawyer-- destruction are already inside our borders-- -- we find hardware in your -- I told you, it all just apartment, latest military showed up there'. You're not spec, airplane manuals, plus listening to me! twelve hundred pounds. of-- sit your ass down now -- ammonium nitrate fertilizer. Just curious if you knew any of Paul's friends in Beirut, or if he knew any of your friends -- what do you mean in Singapore, oh but that's "friends"?! right, we haven't really established whether or not you two were close-- -- I guess we were rett close when I looked into his open casket this morning and saw the bad make-up job covering the gash in his skull! Or how about when I watched him being lowered into the ground -- that establish anything for you?! Somebody set me up! Morgan stares at him, unmoved.
"Somebody." Who?
A woman, I don't know! She called me and told me I was gonna be arrested. GET
No more than Abdul Hamid, Taliban POW we caught in Afghanistan. Except his real name was Johnny Walker Lindh. Grew up in Marin County with a basketball hoop in his driveway and a carton of Tropicana in his fridge. He was blonder than you.. though.
He fits the profile: disaffected, 'susceptible to radical indoctrination, problem with authority. Doesn't vote or pay taxes, but witness statements all say he's not a player. He does sketches of his landlady's dog. Oh, and he's lying about the woman who called him -- we checked the records, no calls came in before we picked him up --
What about the brother?
Mid-level FSO. Been stateside the past three years. No red flags. He was killed when a truck ran a light in Crystal City.
That kind of equipment and a major cash infusion five hours after a terrorist threat and were smiling and saying "coincidence?"
So either he's a rank-and-file sleeper or a dumbshit mule.
 Or a misdirect. There's nothing subtle about him or the gear. He's not exactly a pro-- Morgan levels a look at Grant as Krebs takes .a BEAT. Figuring out the next move:
Get Smith on financials; Rieger on travel; and let's dryclean family and friends. Again. (to Morgan, veiled
I don't want the FBI rushing in on this. Break him. Fast. And leaves Morgan to twist.. The pressure's on. To Latesha:
v m m putting you on the brother.
Great, I'll access State's database
No, I want you to go there.
But, Tom, I can do everything from
you know those funny things underneath that not-so-stylish pantsuit? They're called leas. Latesha looks at him, not happy.
Yes. Sir.
You know I hate it when you call me that-- He turns to go, Grant immediately following him --
What can I do?
Follow me and don't talk.
He's out of town.
Yup.
Which seems like a perfect ;opportunity for a second date. In theory.
In theory -- but I gotta site-check this brief, courier's coming in,.,the morning.
Didn't we have a good time? Remember that? Our first date? Back in the 40's? He's so agreeably genuine, she wants to let him down easy:
I had a great. time, I told you that but I'm so busy and...
Ooo.o, shit, the "so busy" speech -- stop -- not worthy of you. Or me. I'm patient, so... call me. When you're not busy.
Kyle goes to college in nine years-- it should be somewhere around then.
I would so wait a decade for you. Call me his sophomore year, I'll prove it. And with a smile he heads off. She watches him go -- dammit! really liking him in this moment. She watches longer than she should... then goes back to her work. He gets in the elevator and she's left in her solitude. And now we BEGIN TO SEE the first signs of it: loneliness.
The consequence of not really letting anyone into her life. She stares off as BLING! An IM box pops up on her screen: "RACHEL HOLLOMAN. ANSWER THE PHONE." And just like that the PHONE RINGS. Rachel jumps. Staring at the IM. Then at the phone. Answers it:
-- hello? It's the same chilling FEMALE VOICE:
Click on the link at the bottom of the page. Rachel's eyes drop down to the LINK at the bottom of her screen. What? Leans out from her cubicle to look around -- NO ONE ELSE
who is this? As she clicks on the link. And a STREAMING IMAGE APPEARS: A
What's going on? Who are you --?
Would you risk your life for your son? Rachel jumps to her feet,: trying to breathe through the panic. Looking around. NO ONE -
This isn't funny! Who are you?!
Ican derail his train. I can kill him at any time. I'll ask again: would you risk`. your life for your son? Suddenly the BROWSER GOES BLANK: "UNABLE TO ACCESS PAGE." Kyle's taken from her, that fast -- she gasps, terrified.
yes...
Follow my instructions precisely. There's a vehicle parked at the northeast exit of your building. The keys are in the ignition. Start walking. Now. CLICK. Off Rachel's stunned, terrified face --
Time for your phone call.
I thought there was no phone call.
Attorney General's office changed their mind.
hello? Dad--?
I told you to. run. You didn't. TIGHT ON JERRY now, terrified, breathless --
.no wav -- who are you?! Behind Jerry; the steel door UNLOCKS -- he whirls to the OPENING DOOR -- waiting for a Guard -- someone, anyone... BUT NO ONE COMES.::: What the hell is this?!
Follow the water. Or the fire will kill you.
What fire?! How'd you get on this phone?! Are you the one doing all this to me? Why?!
Follow the water. Leave the building -- -- and Jerry SPINS BACK. Looks up at a WALL VENT near the ceiling -- SMOKE. Ho-shit! A SMOKE ALARM BLARES --
-- take Brisbane Street to the elevated train station: you have six minutes.
Wait, what d'you mean "follow the water"? Suddenly: TSHHHHH! Jerry turns -- in the hallway, a CEILING SPRINKLER SPRAYS. The FIRE GROWS, RAGING from the VENT --
Where's Shaw?
Parker took him to make his phone call.
Took him?! On whose authority?!
Turns through the wild FIRE, Morgan, at the other end of the corridor -- GUN DRAWN:
has elevated our alert status to threat level "Orange." Insiders say tomorrow night's State of the Union address will focus on...
Next stop, Montrose Station. A CELL RINGS from a phone peeking out of a SLEEPING PASSENGER'S BACKPACK. He looks at it, oddly suspicious. The LCD GOES BLACK -- then the words "ANSWER IT, JERRY" appear. Looks around: no one saw it. Slips the phone from the guy's backpack -- turns away, hits "answer":
Stay on the train for three more stations until you r-- But Jerry HANGS UP -- WON'T HAVE THIS. And as the train slows, he moves to the door and --
-- Jesus -- 
I told you not to get off yet.
-- listen -- lady -- who are you?!
He knows you're here. Jerry turns and sees A TRANSIT COP through the glass doors that connect the cars -- he's talking into a shoulder-mounted walkie talkie. Looking right at JERRY --
--.how do you know that? Where are you? Jerry notices ANOTHER SECURITY CAMERA in the corner as:
Next stop is Damen Station. Take the Northwest exit. There will be a black BMW sedan. Get in the passenger seat.
Go to hell. How's that. He hangs up, drops the phone and STOMPS ON IT. Eyes from fellow passengers. THEN EVERY CELL PHONE ON BOARD RINGING IN UNISON.
Jerry watches, stunned, as passengers start answering -- all hearing the same thing:
The man in the black t-shirt is a wanted terrorist. His name is Jerry Shaw. Everyone TURNS TO Jerry, backs away, but a HUGE MAN stands:
-- you Jerry Shaw? EVERYONE looking, a few even start to move for him. Jerry goes for the door, but the SUBWAY COP'S there, about to enter, but the door's locked. Jerry yells to the passengers.:
Okay: WHAT DO YOU WANT WITH -- I'm not doing a thing until ME?! I know for a fact that Kyle's safe -- Do you hear me? I am not fucking around, you tell me now what this is Do you hear me? No, you stop - about! - I will not do a thing for you until -- HEY: I almost died back there! Three times! Shut up! You shut up and -- who?! Who's Kyle? WHO THE listen to me now! You tell me HELL IS KYLE?! Kyle is safe! YOU TELL ME
MY SON! YOU LET HIM GO! YOU HEY! HEY, STOP! Wait! HURT HIM AND I WILL KILL You're not the woman who YOU!!! called me? And Rachel, out of breath, realizes: holy shit...
the woman? She called you too?
Drive. -- and Jerry and Rachel SCREAM at the horror of THE;WOMAN'S VOICE COMING FROM INSIDE THE CAR -- how?!
--where's that coming from?! --who are you?!
I'm using the onboard automotive telematics system. Drive. Now. KA-BOOOOM!!! The side window EXPLODES from a GUNSHOT! They duck -- Jerry turns to look at,the COPS running toward the car:
Stay about fifty miles an hour, you have pursuers.
Yeah, thanks, we're on it --
Turn left in two-hundred feet. Indeed they do: TWO POLICE CARS BLAST AROUND A STREET CORNER FOUR BLOCKS BEHIND THEM -- DOPPLER HORNS as we CUT BACK TO:
-- my name's Jerry Shaw, I've been set up -- somehow I don't know -- by --
He dramatically GESTURES around the car, indicating The Voice.
One hundred feet.
-- you don't know anything Your son?! No, I know about Kyle? nothing! Just like you don't know how to drive: use the clutch before you shift, not while you shift, not while you -- I don't need driving sh-- lessons from you, asshole! -- you drive like. this and I'm the asshole?
 I know I got it! And she YANKS the steering wheel and the.car makes a FRIGHTENING SCREAMING LEFT TURN as we CUT TO:
All units, respond code 3 -- suspect's headed south on Stanley -- Morgan makes a hard right, .tearing around a corner --
 --the lights are all changing to green... it's like... -- like they're changing for us...
Accelerate to sixty -- turn right in four- hundred feet...
 -- oh, no way --
Rachel looks up too -- eyes wide: A TEN-STORY-TALL CONSTRUCTION
-- sixt ! Go to sixty! And suddenly the crane DROPS THE GIRDERS -- Rachel SCREAMS --
And the STEEL BEAMS SLAM INTO THE PAVEMENT, JUST BEHIND THE BMW,
-- this isn't happening!!! Tries to DOWNSHIFT -- GRINNNNNNNND!!
Getoffthe street -- wait, --WILLYOU SHUT UP?!!!! no,turnup ahead, keep going --WILLYOU JUST SHUT UP AND --go...wait -- stop -- TURN LETMEDO IT!!
The BMW barely avoids one collision after another --
You'll turn at the next alley: avoid the police. Rachel skids right, but TWO COP CARS appear. Too late to stop WHAM! The BMW SMASHES THROUGH -- both cop cars go flying.
 -- you're doing great --
They're headed for the harbor! Gimme roadblocks at Granville and Sheridan! IN THE BMW: Jerry and Rachel speed through an industrial marina. Up ahead, the intersection's closed by a POLICE BARRICADE.
Turn right in two-hundred feet. MORGAN'S CAR: he SEES Rachel coming right at him. Just before they collide, she TURNS RIGHT. Morgan SLAMS his brakes -- his car FISHTAILS -- the cruisers behind him come to a.stop; but now
Accelerate to sixty five.
Just then: KA-CHUNK!! Something just SLAMMED onto the ROOF -- a high-pitched VREEEEE as he car's tires SPIN in overdrive but suddenly FIND NO ROAD BENEATH THEM! And impossibly, as the brick wall GROWS HUGE coming right at us through the windshield, the car RISES OFF THE GROUND -- LITERALLY FLYING --
They jump from their cars, look down into the river and see NOTHING. Morgan KICKS a trash can, pissed:
Seal the harbor, get divers in the water! PAN UP TO the horizon... where the garbage barge floats lazily down Lake Michigan. Jerry and Rachel escaped... for now.
This is Kyle. Who is not allowed to. use this phone with my friends... so leave a message, Mom. (BEEP --}
Honey? Honey? It's me -- Baby, you need to call me. Soon as you get this, 1 please -- check your messages and.call me. Sweetie. I love y_ou. And she hangs up, staring'off. CRASH! Jerry's knocked the window back -- opens the control booth door and enters, examines the controls. The computer panel reads: "CONTROL OVERRIDE."
-- this thing's on auto-pilot or something. Which doesn't happen, these barges are operated, by people. He steps out. In thought, tears in her eyes, Rachel asks:
D'youthink -- she could derail a train?
Are you kidding me? She changed every traffic light! This woman's called me on other people's phones -- some dude who happened to be sitting next to me! His phone rang -- it was her! For me! She broke me out of maximum-security custod in a way I'm not even gonna tell you cause you won't believe it -- and you saw how she directed us away from the police, then lifted us outta the world and dropped our ass onto the ghost barge! Can she derail a train? She could probably turn a train into a duck. Yes. I think she c--
-- but now he stops, because Rachel is crying. Jerry lamely attempts to backpedal:
I mean... I don't know, I'm not sure she could derail a train, what the hell do I know? Rachel brushes her tears away. Afraid, but fighting it.
My son is on a train. She threatened to kill him if I don't do what she says. They share a look. The difference between them galvanized in an instant. She has something to lose.
You tell me -- how does someone do all this? When: RING! A CELL PHONE. Rachel looks down, hoping it's Kyle -- but it's not her phone. They realize the phone's somewhere in the trash. Jerry starts digging. It's nast Finally, he finds it in an old take-out box --- re: the phone.
-- you see what I mean? He wipes it off, holds it to his ear despite the stench;
Hello?
You both need to swim to shore. Go to line tower 108.
"Swim to shore? Are you -- she wants us to swim --?! insane?
Lady, what if I told you we don't know how to swim.
But you do. I've seen you at the beach house.  And the female was once a swimming instructor at the YMCA in Westport, Connecticut. Go now or the authorities will find you. They're more dangerous than the water.
CLICK -- she's gone. Jerry hangs up, turning something unnerving in his mind.
She called you "the female."  That's like... something a foreigner would say, like a bad translation. But she has no accent.
Jerry, that's your name, right? Are we swimmincr?
Does it bring back memories of Westport Y?
 how did you know that?
I didn't. And they turn to look down at the FREEZING RIVER WATER as we PRE- LAP the SOUND of a clear F SHARP and CUT TO --
You sure you want to replace it? Sounds pretty good to me. And we reveal MIDDLE EASTERN MAN standing at the counter. Eyes darting, nervousShoves a small BOX into the man's hand.
I do a lot of custom jobs, never seen something like this before. I can have it for you by the end of the week. The Middle Eastern Man. MUMBLING again in Tajiki. Seemingly, to himself. The Store Owner stares, kinda freaked out --
Sorry, what?
Listen, Mister -- The Middle Eastern Man suddenly touches his ear, BARKS out something in Tajiki. Like he's arguing with someone.
-- are you okay?
All the surveillance cameras in the area have turned up nothing -- no ID on the girl, nothing on the VIN --
All I want is a goddamn picture of her -- what about traffic cams? There are more cameras on that route than the Super
Department of Transpo says there was a seven minute equipment failure --
Pissed, Morgan starts -- fast -- for the chopper -- we move with him and Grant, who keeps up:
The getaway car was waiting there -- get me a witness description on the woman driving -- remember witnesses? People who see things?! Jesus, is this a lost art?
I have Markey on that right now Morgan's PHONE IS RINGING -- he answers:
Morgan. When? NO. You tell them hold that 'til I talk to Sanford -  WTMZ has a report that there's a terrorist at large in the.city,-- I'm going back to forensics. Find out where the hell that fax originated.-- if you don't have good news for me before I touch down you will be demoted to a job that will require you. to touch shit with your hands --do you understand me?
Yes sir! As Morgan hops up onto the moving chopper --
Nobody who works for me calls me sir. understand?! It's disingenuous -- might as well be calling me 'asshole.' As Grant watches the chopper take off, perplexed.
So you're a twin.
Yeah, I know... that's occurred to me.
So this whole situation is obviously about him.
Excuse me? I would offer this whole situation isn't "obviously" about anything.
Just think about it: you said your brother worked at the State Department --
-- so what?
-- so that means he could've: been into anythinc -- he was a twin -:- you..received a shipment of weapons and cash and airplane manuals -- it seems to me that they sent the stuff to.the wrong brother--
Wait a minute -- you're suggesting all that stuff was for Paul? As they approach TOWER 108:
he hasn't been dead long enough to become a memory! And if you knew Paul, which you did not, you'd laugh all day at the idea that he was a spy or terrorist or whatever you're implying --
I'm implying if not him... then why you?
Well hasn't that been the question my whole life. You know how I know Paul wasn't a terrorist? Because if he had been, he would've been the best fucking terrorist in history: he wouldn't have gotten caught, the United States would be a crater -- he would've won awards for being a great terrorist.
I did just fine driving, thanks. I'm a paralegal -- I have no connection to anything.
Really? Suddenly they're interrupted by the ROOSTERTAIL OF DUST approaching in the distance. Rachel stops dead and on INSTINCT, grabs Jerry's hand, all their mutual hostility vanished:
Someone's coming. And what's approaching is the "Hassad DryCleaners." van. It comes to a stop and out steps the Middle Eastern Man. Stands some twenty-five feet from them.
who are you? Rachel grabs Jerry's arm as the man reaches into his jacket --
-- dropped off what? Who are you?
what's it for?
-- hey! -- wait, who are you?! You have to tell us what you know!
And as the man walks away from them his CELL PHONE RINGS: He pulls it out -- the LCD READS: "LAST CHANCE." And the man DROPS the phone and just starts RUNNING --
And Jerry takes off after him, he's not letting him go. Catches up to the guy and grabs him. Spinning him round --
What do you know?
-- who's doing this? And they begin to struggle. Middle Eastern Man's dropped CELL PHONE RINGS. Rachel. Terrified, hesitant. Knows somehow its for her -- she answers:
Stop him now or he will die.
 How are you seeing us?! Jerry and the Middle Eastern Man. Fighting. Thrashing. Throwing sloppy punches:
Stop him now. CLICK. Rachel turning to SCREAM at Middle Eastern Man --
Stop! You have to STOP! When the Middle Eastern Man CRACKS Jerry in the nose and he goes sprawling. He takes off again, yelling back:
She's going to KILL YOU!
And just then, something TERRIFYING: an IMMENSE POWER SURGE -- HEARD, FELT -- and a SIX-STORY-HIGH COIL THE SIZE OF AN SUV EXPLODES IN SPARKS. CABLES BLAST FREE. Rachel SCREAMS. Jerry TACKLES HER TO SAFETY as the tree trunk cables SWING DOWN AND STRIKE THE MIDDLE EASTERN MAN and he is SLAMMED OFF HIS FEET, the current making the cable STICK TO HIM LIKE GLUE. And he's ON FIRE INSTANTLY -- SMOKE EVERYWHERE as he's TOSSED BY
Oh my God... Oh God... oh We--we have to do something, God... Oh God... we have to... figure out what to.. what... And then his PHONE RINGS. And they're both too afraid to answer it. Another RING. And another. Finally Jerry answers it, hand shaking slightly:
You killed him... you killed that man...
It was unavoidable. Take the van. Drive to Indianapolis. 7002 West 56th Street. Arrive no later than eleven AM. Disobey and you die. CLICK. Rachel's eyes on Jerry.
she wants us to drive to Indianapolis.: , -- why? What's there, what? -- -- I don't know -- -- no, this can't keep happening! We have to go to the police, explain it -- explain what?! What're we -- I'm not doing it!! I'm not gonna tell them?! going anywhere! Jerry can see she's losing it. Grabs her by the shoulders:
-- Rachel. She's watching us. Right now. You wanna die too? Your son? We have to go. Rachel looks right at him, still shaking, knows he's right. And nods. Okay. Okay. As our MUSIC BUILDS, LARGER THAN YOU MIGHT
Just the eerie, faint whistle of wind. We PAN a barren landscape. Scattered scorch marks. Then, a high-pitched TONE as the PAN continues and arrives at a parked military truck, which gives us scale to understand the SUDDEN COLOSSAL EXPLOSION
That blast was the result of one single crystal of Hexomethylne. For those of you who are new today, "Rex" is an isotope that leaves no chemical markers -- it's eighty times more powerful than C4. Odorless. Undetectable. COLONEL THOMPSON, also from our opening, gestures:
Talk about the detonating system... The Developer screws a METAL VALVE into what looks like a can of compressed air, saying:
Hex is triggered by an acoustic frequency undetectable to the human ear. For this test we made it audible -- that was the tone you heard before the explosion -- the tone was the trigger.
What's the risk that another sound could accidentally detonate it?  A song on a radio? A howling dog?
No: the pitch is uniquely programmed and impossible to reproduce.
Fine job.
Thank you, sir. We're proud of this ordnance -- all of us at Halloway-Smith. And while we still HEAR HIM SPEAKING, we CUT TO:
If you're satisfied with today's final test, the Hex Project has met every... contractual objective. The arms package each into separate . containers, fit them with shipping labels marked: "PENTAGON DIRECT."
And we're hoping this moves us into the next scheduled phase... shipping the product into the field. Drift toward an unmanned computer. The screen FLICKERS: "OVERRIDE IN PROGRESS,. CHANGE SHIPPING DESTINATION." Robot arms grab a wrapped package off the line. A new label's printed:
Whaddya got?
-- he was Defense.
You're kidding me. What capacity?
Black-file: classified B-36.
B what?
That's the point. No one'll tell me. I cross-reffed the SCI database, talked to the Intel committee, NSA gave me..nothing. Krebs doesn't want me to ruffle any feathers. I've been up and down all the ladders and everyone just thinks I'm a -- WHEN an MP suddenly appears and grabs her by the arm. Stopping her. He towers over her --
Interns aren't allowed on this floor, miss. You'll have to -- When Latesha wearily flashes him her I.D. I've got clearance, pal. He looks at it. Lets her arm go.
-- sorry.
 Everybody in this place have a six-foot height requirement? (continues walking; back to Morgan) Anyway. I'm going back to the office to--
No, no, no --
-- I got the Williamson County Sheriff on the line -- Morgan holds up a hand, one second. To Latesha:
Look, I don't have time for this -- stay there til you get some answers --
-- but its a total shut out --
Simms: step up --
-- I don't care if you have to go to the. top to do it. Whatever means necessary, got it? Whatever means. CLICK. Latesha lowers the phone. A HUGE:PAINTING of the battle of EL-ALAMEIN looming behind her. Shelooks..back down the hallway as all the BRASS heading into the MEETING ROOM and catches sight of -- CALLISTER amongst them. Latesha hesitates. For just a second. Shit. Shit. This is it. Before suddenly rushing forward and calling out --
Secretary Callister!.: He looks behind him briefly before being shuffled into the meeting room. And SLAM.. The doors close in Latesha's face.
Well, shit.
how old is he? Your son.
 Kyle. He's nine.
What's he doing on a train? She really doesn't want to talk. BUT:
He goes to a music magnet. His school's on a tour of Washington. They're playing at the Kennedy Center.
wow. And you. Hm. She turns to him. Eyes burning into the side of his head. Knows what he's thinking.
Parents weren't allowed to go... is that okay with you?
Is it okay? I could give a shit.
Then what's with the qualified nod?
I'm not allowed to nod?
Not if you're iudging me.--
Judging?! I'm just making conversation.
You think I should have gone with him anyway.
I'm just thinking, sounds like a big deal, especially for a 9-year-old -- playing at the Kennedy Center -- I'd just think at least one parent might wanna be there to see it.
Yeah? How do you know Kyle's dad isn't there?
Well, you're not wearing a ring and you haven't mentioned anyone but your son is on that train. Even the most pissed off ex-wife -- which I'm not saying you aren't -- would've mentioned it if her ex's life was threatened -- and if Kyle was going to meet his dad in DC? You would've tried to call him, too. So where is he? Kyle's dad?
As if it's any of your business -- you know what you are --?
Insightful? Intuitive? A better driver than you --?
-- you're one of those "thirties are the new twenties" man-children. You're glib and wry and find humor in people like me who are actually accountable for the ir lives --
Okay, the most fascinating thing here? Is that you don't know the first thing about me!
I know you work at a copy store! What are you, thirty-one, thirty-two? You're obviously articulate
-- love being stuck in a van with my fucking guidance counselor --
-- and I know your brother just died and he worked for the State Department --
-- you need to stop talking about my brother, I've had enough of that --
-- you're in denial if you -- Ham: I'm not talking about don't think that has anything this -- to do with what's happening right now -= -- Dammit!! I'm not kidding! :but I can tell you that Stop! STOP! whatever he did, whatever he was part of has put my son in danger whether you believe it or not!! SCREECH! Jerry YANKS the wheel hard, PEELING across four lanes of traffic. SKIDS to a stop by a curb, pops open the door.
You can't leave me!
Why not? My brother's a terrorist, and I'm a loser right? He starts to walk away. Rachel desperately opening her door
Don't walk away!
 I'm done.
Please!
You're on your own. Rachel starts running after him,panicked, leadin :
Please! PLEASE! I..i need you! Jerrystops short. Turning around. Cupping his ear.
I'm sorry? What'd you just say?
I can't do this without you.
You mean without the "man-child?" Rachel's reserves crumble.
Its the first time we've been apart, me and Kyle. Since the day he was born. And I let him get on that train--  -- I let him get on. Jerry sees all the panic and horror and guilt in this woman's eyes. They're both in pain. Points his finger right at her.
No more accusing my brother of shit you know nothing about, is that understood? Rachel looks at him. Nods. Finding her voice again --
Yes. And so. They turn around. And get back in the van.
Never seen anything like it. Power blew out from Franklin High School down to the river club. I can't explain it - They arrive at the body. Contorted, blackened, teeth bared.
No I.D. We know he's male, though. Probably in his 20's.  Tire treads entering and leaving the scene over three. Three sets of shoe prints.
And we're about 4 miles from the river -- Just then we see Agent Grant running towards them, stumbling on some rocks. Just finishing-.up a cell call:
Agent Morgan!"  Just got off with HQ. The fake fax from Justice that got Shaw his phone call? Came from inside Justice.
Inside?! You absolutely sure on that?
Yes, s--  Yes I am.
Got something -- As the M.E. pulls something out of Middle Eastern Man's ear: a small, charred GIZMO. Small WIRE sticking out. Lifts it up for them to see. Morgan takes the TWEEZERS --
Looks like a bone mic, military grade.
Can't even get these things on the black market.  Someone was talking to him. Something's rotten in Denmark. No, something's rotten everywhere. Morgan turns abruptly and starts back for the chopper. The Sheriff helplessly calls after him:
We'll be needing that for evidence!
a Federal bank?
Could be worse. Could.be.a Federal Prison.
Mr. and Mrs. Saxon? I'm Mr. Bids. I understand you're in a hurry, why don't I show you to your box.
 yes, thank you, we'd... like that. The manager walks them across to a secure elevator with a THERMOGRAPHIC SCANNER. The manager looks at Jerry expectantly, waiting for him to place his hand on it. He does: a flash of light, identifying him as: "SAXON, CARL." Jerry's eyes: this is madness. The elevator doors OPEN.
Your key? Jerry takes out his key, it fits perfectly. They turn; the box slides out, the manager lays it on a steel table. LEAVES to give them privacy. Jerry and Rachel stare at the box.
You gonna open it?
Maybe it's not gonna be so bad.
Yeah... maybe it's something good.. They meet eyes. Tentatively, he raises the lid to find TWO GLOCK PISTOLS and the same BONE MIC we saw.the.M.E. pull out of the Middle Eastern Man's ear. A note.: "EAR:MIC. NOW."
Oh, shit -- it's bad -- They look at each other. Jerry puts the..mic in his ear:
-- what?!
-- I don't suppose -- there's any easier way to`get whatever the hell it is you want -- is there? Miss? But she's not answering.
Excellent.
What now -- what are we?
-- they're coming--we're supposed to rob them -- -- are you kidding me?!?!  -- just take i t-- -- no! Jesus! I don't even let Kyle play with water guns! -- hey, I applaud your parenting skills -- take it! The footsteps come CLOSER as two MEN appear... the.-BRINKS COURIERS from the lobby; one of them's carrying a METALLIC BRIEFCASE cuffed to his wrist -- the other spots Jerry's gun and REACTS, going for his gun:
Don't! The men freeze -- Jerry holds his gun awkwardly --
Uh... hi. How's it going. Put. it on the floor. The briefcase. We don't wanna hurt you guys, we like you guys -- just -- we need the case.
You're bringing a shitstorm on your heads, you know that.
I think we're already mid-shitstorm. Do it. The men exchange glances. Reluctantly, Courier #1 punches a combination into the case's padlock, the cuff POPS free from his wrist. He slides it over to Jerry, who reaches for it... AND COURIER #2 MAKES A MOVE -- SMASHING Jerry back, knocking the gun out of his hand.. Jerry CRASHES to the ground, the BONE MIC falling out of his ear... he turns, shit! Sees it skitter under the table. The Courier sees it too and grabs his chance: snatches up the case and RUNS for the elevator -- Rachel rushes him, trips him -- he falls, dazed -- Jerry leaps up but Courier #2 effortlessly FLIPS him on top of the steel table, SLAMS Jerry's head into the counter, unholsters a back-up GUN from his ankle -- brings the barrel up as: BAM! A GUNSHOT! The Couriers spin to see RACHEL, holding the gun that was kicked across the floor:
Gimme the case. Now. They do -- and Jerry and Rachel back into the elevator with it.
impressive. Thanks. The door closes on them, and we CUT INTO:
-- whoa--what is that? -- a timer -- it's counting down-- -- they do.that -- what's it mean?! -- I dunno, the only things with timers I can think of are microwaves and... -- and bombs, you were gonna say bombs -- some coffee makers have timers.. .and egg timers... -- yeah, Jerry, it's an egg timer -- What is SHE saying about it --? I dunno, I -- -- What do you mean you. don't know?!
You lost the mic, Jerry. That's not optimum. JESUS CHRIST! Her voice is in the elevator now:
Would you stop doing that?!
There will thirty five seconds of disconnect, during which you need to get yourselves across the street to the stadium's VIP parking area unexposed.
 Is this a bomb?! 'Cause I am not walking out with a bomb! Hey! You! But she's done talking. As the elevator DOORS SLIDE OPEN--
How do I look?
Like you got into a fight. Me?
Like you lost one. AN ALARM SOUNDS. The men race into the bank as Jerry and Rachel walk RIGHT PAST them, starting across the street toward the stadium. No one in sight except a COLTS PARAPHERNALIA VENDOR. SQUAD CARS SCREECH in around the bank. COPS jump out drawing their weapons. Rachel tensing.
Just keep walking Jerry looks at the CLOCK above the-stadium. Then over his shoulder at the BANK. Steers Rachel over towards the VENDOR. Trying to stay calm.
Two jerseys and two hats, please --
Peyton or Vinatieri?
 I don't know what that means --
Jerry...
 Uh... both. The two COURIERS running out of the bank. POINTING RIGHT AT JERRY AND RACHEL ACROSS THE STREET. Everyone starts RUNNING TOWARD THEM. Jerry shoves a jersey and hat at Rachel--
Put these on --
Do it!
They put on the hats and jerseys, hurrying towards the stadium. Cops screaming at them to stop, the Vendor screaming that they didn't pay. The cops fan out. Cars SCREECH to a stop. Jerry, sweating. Flicks another look at the stadium clock: 3.. 2..
Mr. and Mrs. Saxon? Hope you-enjoyed the game.
Thanks, uh, we're in kind of a hurry --
I bet. Jerry reacts, confused by the.chauffeur's libidinous tone as he closes the back door. They vanish behind tinted windows as cops and agents pass right by them. And as the limo pulls out, we reveal, etched across the rear: "JUST MARRIED."
 Afternoon... afternoon, sir... afternoon... afternoon, General... Pretty intimidating. Finally CALLISTER walks out, flanked by ADVISORS. The weight of the world's on his shoulders.
Secretary Callister? He looks back, preoccupied. She catches up, holding her ID:
Latesha Simms, DHS, level 2 clearance. I need to ask you a question, sir --
Not now, you can direct it to my office.
It'll only take a minute, sir, thirty seconds -- B-36? Can you tell me what it is? 'Cause its not --
-- you don't have clearance, Agent Simms, and I don't have thirty seconds.
So should I assume it has something to. do with the four CVN class 21 aircraft carriers you and the president just ordered to the Strait of Hormuz -? He looks at her, stunned. How the hell--?
I just checked the intel, sir, we have some of the same indexes --
You need to stop assuming. And he moves on. Latesha gets jostled by all the brass, feeling like a mouse in cage filled with lions. Until she ROARS:
Secretary Callister. Voice echoing down the hail. Callister stops short, stunned by the gall and volume of this woman. She weaves through the GENERALS, planting herself in front of him:
My Department's tracking a home-grown terrorist on the loose as we speak who may be connected to a cell with ties inside this building. Now seeing as you just had a meeting back there with more brass than the Navy Marching Band and with the terror threat rising every three hours, I'm going to just have to assume you're in the middle of a very delicate dance to stave off World War Three... so with all due respect, you either give me my thirty seconds and tell me what the hell B-36 is, or this world just fell into an even bigger heap of trouble. Sir. Callister looks down at her, completely struck dumb. She's hit a chord deep inside him. It's called balls. SLAM TO:
Mr. and Mrs. Saxon? This way, please -- Tries to take the BRIEFCASE from Jerry, who yanks it back:
No! 2 trot it.  Thanks, though.
So, where'd you two get hitched?
Reno. Niagara Falls. Shit.
Niagara Falls. Reno. Shit. The "DING" of an arriving elevator MATCHES US BACK TO:
Agent Simms? Scott Bowman: Welcome to B- 36. If you'll follow me?
Welcome to paradise. Palatial HONEYMOON SUITE. Picture windows, rose petals on the bed...
Minibar, high-speed internet, thousand- count sheets. And if you're looking for the TV He clicks a remote and a 72" PLASMA TV rises up from a cabinet. On screen, a narrated "virtual tour".of the hotel:
dedicated to the highest standards of luxury and comfort...
Robes behind the door, jacuzzi with eighteen nozzles that hit in all the right places, if you'll pardon my French. .Need anything, just dial zero, I'm here t2. serve, I'm here to please... And he stands by the door, waiting for a tip. Jerry's still looking aroundwhen Rachel catches his eye. Well? Oh. Jerry digs into his pocket and pulls out TWO NICKELS.
Knock yourself out. The Bellhop is still looking down at his palm when Jerry SHUTS THE DOOR on him.
This is nice and everything, but what the hell are we doing here?
Nice? One night in this place is more than one of my paychecks; and that's before taxes -- He heads over to the minibar. Starts rooting through it, pulling out those tiny bottles of alcohol...
What're you doing?
If we're going down, I'm gonna go down singing. Hey! Chocolate covered almonds, I love these!
Can you stop eating for a second? A KNOCK at the door and they stop arguing immediately.
Answer it. They TURN hearing the voice: it's.coming from the T.V. The FOUR SEASONS GRAPHIC still dancing on screen.
There are items you will need for the next step. KNOCK! KNOCK! A small nod from Rachel and Jerry opens the door. A DELIVERY BOY stands there with a BAG:
There y'go, Mr. Saxon. Have a nice day? Jerry takes the bag -- the kid puts out his hand for a tip just as Jerry closes the door on him, dazed. Starts pulling things from the bag: hair. dye, clothes...
The limousine is waiting for you `downstairs. You have 30 minutes to change your appearance.
Where are we going now?
What the hell's in the briefcase?
Your only consideration at present is to deliver it before the timer expires.
 BULLSHIT! This is crazy! You're a television set! You don't watch me, I watch you! I wanna know what the hell's going on!!
It would not be efficacious to reveal my intentions.
-- "not be efficacious"?! Who the.fuck talks like that?!
-- Jerry --
We know you're watching! We know you're listening! We know you know.'everythina. So why don't you STOP HIDING AND TELL US
Fine, have it your way,.Lady -- I'm gonna scream bloody murder out this window 'til every cop in a fifty mile radius comes running and I'm gonna tell them everything even if they think I'm a crazy sonofabitch 'cause at least I won't have to listen to you any more!
He does. The..FOUR SEASONS GRAPHIC in TV snaps to BLACK -- then DIGITAL STATIC -- a channel RE-ROUTING through some distant computer-controlled network. And now: IMAGES -- FILE FOOTAGE -- a DEFENSE DEPARTMENT LAB, TECHNICIANS assembling computer components, putting together a strange- looking SPHERE --
My name... is Aria. Rachel and Jerry stare -- what the hell is this?
It stands for 'Autonomous Reconnaissance Intelligence Analyst'... And we reveal "THE TANK." A glassed-in wall containing TONS of water. AN AWESOME STEEL SPHERE IN THE WATER, suspended by a claw-like apparatus. The "brain" of a com uter network. The very same image Jerry and Rachel just saw on the TV.
Twenty-two hundred tons of super-cooled water keeps her from overheating -- that's ninety-two thousand processors, the equivalent of a hundred.millionhuman brains working together as:,.one..."'
 an electronic espionage system.
No, that was Echelon, eavesdropping off satellites. This goes.;. much farther.
I was created by "DARPA": the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency in 2002. My primary directive is to protect the national security of the United States. I have access to track the economies, populations, and military development of every country in the world, as well as intercept all global communications -- from satellites to cell phones to credit card transactions. Jerry and Rachel look at each other -- a computer?!
After 911, our problem wasn't collecting data, it was interpreting it fast enough. Ergo: quantum rocessin
Today there are more microchips than people, and they can all be data-mined, either via direct connectivity or wireless signals --let's say we're chasing someone with a suitcase nuke in L.A., we can order Aria to shut down mass transit, track the perp through traffic cameras... and if given the order, she could even turn a TV into a bomb to take him out.
(what we're all
But what if --
-- she can't act without authorization. See, she's bound not to countermand our laws -- even the Declaration of Independence is woven into her source code. Her primary role's pre-emptive -- running simulations, identifying threats before they become real...
Wait, you think we're a.threat?
No. You're a means to an end. On TV, CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS -- ZOOM to words in CLOSE UP:
Under National Security Directive 359, Sub-Section 72 -- "when units are needed for the national defense, civilians shall be ordered to active Federal service..."
you're drafting us?
The guy you killed in the desert -- last time I checked, murder wasn't legal.
In fact, it is. Chapter 802 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice states desertion is punishable by death. So matter-of-fact, its chilling. And what Jerry wants to know, more than anything, is...
what'd my brother have to do with this? A picture of PAUL SHAW'S DEFENSE I.D. pops on screen:
We were colleagues. Rachel staring at the picture on the screen, then back at Jerry. Can see the blood draining from his face.
 No, he worked for the State Department..:
Everyone in deep operations has a cover. Your brother was a Horseman.
What's the hell is a 'Horseman'?
You know, clever allegory -- of the apocalypse'--`except we're here to prevent it. Scott taps the console, ID PHOTOS APPEAR of our four "Horsemen": PAUL SHAW, SCOTT, and two men we'll call LOWELL and JIMMY.
Officially, we don't exist, but we monitor Aria's network 24/7. There were :four of us... til Paul died.  He was smarter than all of us put together.
Working here must be pretty tough -- all the security, the pressure, long hours... As in: "Did you notice him acting strangely?"
Yeah, but you could set your watch by Paul. Except...
Except what?
The night he died? He left his shift three minutes early. Which you don't do. Which he wouldn't do. Latesha's suddenly locked in on a clue -- PRELAP:
Paul and I had a disagreement before he expired...
To amend it, I need Jerry to perform a task. Simple.
Expired?! You mean died.. That's what we call it, we humans, we call it dying--
What's the task?
To insure the national security of the United States.
What d'you need me for then?
That is not your concern right now.
Are you kidding me?
Alright, this is bullshit. I'm not doing this --- and you're a computer, you don't know a goddamn thing about my brother.
I know all about him, Jerry. And you. The screen snaps to a SLIDE SHOW of PAUL SHAW'S accomplishments: childhood birthday parties, sports teams, surrounded by friends, beautiful girlfriends, high school graduation, Yale graduation, standing with their dad, William's arm over his shoulder. Jerry almost GASPS at Aria's reaching into his subconscious:
Your brother succeeded in everything he did.
Before he was a year old, he walked. Something that took you eighteen months to accomplish. He was highly gifted, intelligent and principled -- in fact, the only Horseman ever to challenge me. But you, Jerry -- The slide show CHANGES to SECURITY FOOTAGE of Jerry at KINKO'S, slaving away. Playing cards with Kwame, slacking off. His stomach drops. Seeing himself like this. Looking so pathetic. The heart has just been cut out of him. Rachel sees it --
You are similar to Paul in DNA only. Historically you have succeeded in nothing. Initiated nothing. Excelled in nothing. You will perform the task because it is your nature to follow.
-- Jesus, ENOUGH! The screen goes BLACK.
You have 23 minutes to prepare. There's an adjoining suite with a second bathroom. The DOOR to the adjoining SUITE clicks open.
Use it. And she's gone, replaced by the hotel's promotional prattle --
The Four Seasons prides itself on excellent service Jerry stares, overcome. Rachel watches him an emotional beat...
Halloway-Smith contracted us to transport the briefcase to their corporate office...
Biotech? The chemical company?
 Why'd the HAZMAT office issue a special permit for the case?
We pulled video... nothing. No good angles on Shaw or the girl.
There.are 14 visible cameras in the lobby! " 8 hidden no one can see!
Gotta be a hacker, someone keeping them ahead of us.
It's a Federal bank; encryption doesn't get more secure.., from now on assume our air's been compromised, too. Tell everyone to go secure on Tac-3, nobody communicates outside this task force without my say-so.
I'm on it -- also: they found this upstairs, but the trace signal's dead -- Holds up an evidence bag with Jerry's BONE MIC inside.
Do not tell me that is what I think it is.  Goddamnit, who's leading these people around?! Someone's behind the Wizard of Oz! He turns and spots something: A SURVEILLANCE CAMERA in the window of a 7-11. Starts MOVING toward it.--
-- Kyle?!
Hey, mom, it's. me.
-- sweetie, where areou, are you -- But she's INTERRUPTED as she realizes, oddly, it's a VOICEMAIL -- her heart SINKS:
Got your message, the train's awesome -- Brian tried to burp the alphabet but gagged when he got to "M." I'll call when we hit D.C. Bye, ma -- Rachel holding the phone like it's some kind of life-line to her son. When there's a strange BEEP then the voice of ARIA:
Your son left that message sixty seconds ago.
I'll do whatever you want -- don't hurt him, please -- I'm begging you. Listen - you're trying to protect something too, right? You'll do whatever it takes. Well that's what it's like to be a mother -- can you understand that?
There were over 52,000 vocal tone options for my program; I chose this one precisely because it sounds so maternal. People tend to do what you ask when you sound like their mother.
 Jesus...
You'll see your son again soon. Bute there's something I require from you first...
Rachel? We gotta go INTERCUT: Rachel in the bathroom, her face betraying the horror of what she's just heard, what Aria's just told her to do --
What? No way, I can't just --
-- when the time comes I'll instruct you to stepaway:fromJerry. Once you hear those words, you'll have thirty seconds.
Rachel? You in there?
Answer Jerry, please. INTERCUT:;Jerry still standing outside the door. Rachel's VOICE,"mustering strength through the door:
Steeling herself, she steps out. Forces a smile while averting her eyes. And pushes past h2-,n like he's lagging...
I dunno, the whole thing's off somehow - but get this: B-36 isn't a security classification, it's a sub-level here at the Pentagon -- (sees the DESK GUARD eyeing her) What? Girl's gotta groom.
 -- you're shitting me
Yeah, 36 floors underground -- and it gets weirder:
INTERCUTTING WITH MORGAN IN THE 7-11 -- he hears:
Four years ago, DARPA commissioned... ...
Simms? You're breaking up -- WITH LATESHA -- her cell LCD says: "Call lost." No bars. Muttering "dainnit," she tries to call Morgan back. No dice. ARIA PQV CAM: Latesha snaps her phone shut, notices the camera watching her. Unsettling. We read: "VOICE MIMEO ACTIVATED"
Sorry about that -- As we realize Aria's taken over the call by mimicking Latesha:
I'm getting a bad signal down here.
I heard 'DARPA' and 'computer' --?
Yes, B-36 was part of a super-computer project, but it was decommissioned. A dead end. The archives are at Fort Meade. Do you want me to head over there? -- but Morgan's only half-listening now as he sees. something on the CCTV feeds:
Wait -- go back, freeze that - WHAT HE SEES: A STILL of Jerry and Rachel getting in the limo, faces obscured.
Punch up the plate The image enhances, revealing a PLATE NUMBER, its frame bearing the company name: "ICON LIMOUSINE SERVICES."
 Find that car!  Simms, gotta jump, sit tight 'til I call.
Yes, sir. Morgan, preoccupied, is about to hang up. But stops: did she just call me sir?
Aria's system uses biometric security to identify us, so only Horsemen can access her core programming. Suddenly his head's ensconced in a LASER GRID that scans every inch of his features: "PROCESSING FOR MATCH... HORSEMAN IDENT CONFIRMED: BOWMAN, SCOTT." Latesha watches somewhat dumbstruck as the machine arm retreats upward.
 Aria, go voice active, please.
It talks?
Aria, this is Latesha Simms, she's here as part of a counter-terrorism task force.
. Am I supposed to -- (he gestures, "answer Um... what's up.
Aria, I'd like to:bring,up all the log feeds the night Paul died -- when he left the building.
There's no feed from inside here?
No need for cameras in here, we've got Aria. Latesha looks through a glass divider at Aria floating in the tank. Creeped out. The FOOTAGE JUMPING as Paul rounds the corner for the elevator. Presses his THUMB to the panel.
So weird... no overt body language, he's even casual. Leaving like it's any other day.
Except three minutes early... ON THE MONITOR: the elevator doors open and Paul steps inside. Latesha studies the feed. Something's not right. Then... her eyes NARROW: the way Paul's facing the button panel. Like he's deliberately pivoting away from the camera.
Wait, in the reflection, did you see that? Scott rewinds the FOOTAGE, ZOOMS IN. Paul stepping into the elevator and facing the button panel. CLOSE ON HIS FACE in the panel's REFLECTIVE SURFACE --
Is he... blinking? Yes. Erratically, deliberately. Fucking weird. Scott and Latesha share a look. Suddenly, the image on the monitor starts to FLICKER and JUMP --
Negative, I'm prioritizing this.
It's like he's trying to say something...
A code. He's blinking code
It's not Morse, but there's a sequence to it --
 Oh, that sonofabitch... He grabs a piece of paper and starts WRITING MADLY, scribbling numbers, scratching some out, then converting them to LETTERS --
 It's a code -- Hexadecimal -- a number system that can be converted to letters the first computer used it as a programming language back in the 50's. Latesha watches, rapt: R... E. E... X... T. ." ON THE FEED: the elevator door OPENS and Paul steps out. That's all they get. They stare, trying to make sense of the letters:
The hell is that? Staring, minds spinning -- and suddenly.she puts.a FINGER between the two "E's." Dividing words.. And GETS IT:
It's the only spot in the hallway not covered by .the cameras.
I don't get it. He had to be saying 'Fire Extinguisher.' Scott pulls a MAINTENANCE SHEET off the wall. Scans --
Maintenance replaced it yesterday.  This isn't right... they weren't supposed to do it til June. They lock eyes.
Hey -- sorry, I didn't mean to -- am I drooling? I bet I'm drooling. You didn't sleep?
Night shifts. I'm used to. Rachel sits up, sees the napkin. Grins, surprised.
Wow, is that me?
One of my only party tricks.
 It's really good. Jerry looks down at it, not used to having his work appreciated. Rachel, can see how deeply affected he was by what Aria said. It seems to make her feel uuiilty somehow... kinder...
About what Aria said... I'm sorry. They're;starting to connect. He glances out the window...
You have to understand, I wasn't his twin, I was more like his... little brother. Always trying to catch up. And you wouldn't believe how... nice he was to me. Teaching me things when we were kids, telling me how great I was. He was the only one who ever did.  Of course he was involved in some super secret National Security project. He was a superstar. He had a rocket strapped to his back. I'm the fuck-up.
I wear it like a medal, like it actually means something... but the funny thing is? This is probably the most important thing I'll ever do. This. Right now. This completely insane journey or whatever it is. I'm actually needed in something, me. Jerry Shaw is required. But what am I thinking? I'll probably fuck this up, too --
You're being too hard on yourself--
No. I'm not being hard enough. That's been the problem. They look at each other. A real moment for Jerry. A seismic shift in his life perspective. But then something catches his eye -- his look DARKENS. Out the window, a highway sign: "DAYTON INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT." The driver's.tinted divider window lowers, he offers a folder.
Your passports and itinerary. Now Rachel's seen the airport. sign, too. Looks at Jerry...
 Uh... could you give us a minute? The Chauffeur nods, the window RISES again. Heart pounding, Jerry grabs the briefcase and slides back the timer sheath to check the countdown: "00:15:36...00:15:35..."
You don't think --
-- we know what she can do, she doesn't need us to crash a plane --
-- what if it's not about just one plane? They look at each other. Fuck. Fuck. Fuck. What to do. When Rachel grabs the briefcase as the limo pulls curbside.
I have more to lose in this. If anything happens to Kyle then my life's over anyway -- But Jerry grabs her hand, taking the case.
Rachel -- til we met, I had nothing to lose. We do this together. A LONG LOOK BETWEEN THEM. As they realize, this could be it.
Go to the ticketing machine, you'll receive two tickets to Paris.
-- Paris?
Once you have the tickets, walk to gate 17-C. Move quickly.
He's with a brunette female, approximately five-seven -- I want airport PD at all exits -- have the tower shift commander ground every flight outta here under Federal jurisdiction but don't change the departure boards, I don't want 'em to know we're coming-- The agents enter the airport through a door on the tarmac --
Sir, you'll have to put that through. Jerry nervously sets it on the conveyor belt, they pull off their shoes... watch the case move toward the mouth of the machine, then pass through the metal detector, catching a GLIMPSE of the X-RAY SCREEN... the briefcase glides into view... A STRANGE GLITCH as the screen fritzes, then normalizes revealing the contents: A HAIR DRYER AND DIRTY CLOTHES?! They notice the surveillance cam watching:
 she changed the screen... The case comes off the conveyor, the TSA agent hands it back:
Can't be too careful.
 You're doing a great job. As they walk on, he checks the timer, 00:03:22... 00:03:21.. 11 They pass a KIDS' BAND and their teacher, gathered around an airline CUSTOMER SERVICE DESK.
 I have him on the upper concourse, C terminal!
 -- we aottago As Morgan races forward, ARIA ACTS: the X-ray screen FRITZES again as another carry-on goes through, revealing its "contents" as a HAND GUN AND KNIVES! The TSA agent hits a RED BUTTON --
And in a nanosecond, all TSA AGENTS draw guns and throw a KOREAN MAN against the wall -- he SHOUTS in confusion as they tear open his bag to reveal... it's filled with BIBLES!
Open this NOW! The janitor quickly swipes his ID through the keycard scanner, but it BUZZES RED. Aria's locking them out. Morgan FIRES his gun at the lock -- people SCREAM as he slams through --
JERRY LOSES HIS GRIP ON THE BRIEFCASE! It FALLS, landing on a "return" belt, Jerry reaches but MISSES by inches -- THE BRIEFCASE travels onward, nearing Morgan -- he GOES for it -- but a machine arm guiding luggage SWINGS LEFT, manipulated by Aria -- KNOCKS Morgan back before he can grab the case--
All agents: northwest cargo area! FREIGHT CARGO AREA: separated from Morgan, they tumble off the conveyor -- a plasma displays the "Asset Tracking System," all airport cargo and shipping -- it CHANGES to read:
(they do:
Don't be a bomb don't be a bomb don't be a bomb -- `
If it is, I'm really, really sorry I let you come with me... The timer: 0O:02.`..00:01...and nothing happens. The briefcase simply UNLOCKS.. They exhale.
Hand still trembling, Jerry reaches out... lifts the top to reveal... TWO HYPODERMIC SYRINGE INJECTORS and two vials of CLEAR LIQUID labelled: "Cryozine I TEST VIALS -- 20 x 1.0 ml.
Oh, Jesus...
Why --?
What is that?! I'm not putting it in my
--oh, shit--I can't-- There's no time-- He sees she's coming undone, so he'fire :. into his arm, taking the plunge -- WINCING as the needle punctures skin -- a beat:
it's okay, .. see? I' mokay...you can do this, I'm telling you. Strong. Buoyed by him, she gets courage and FIRES too, wincing--
.I feel it... oh, God...
Hey, hey... look at me. She finds his eyes, it calms her.
I haven't really done... a lotta drugs.
I've never done 'em in a cargo container. Despite everything, she smiles at that. He reaches for the walkie and TURNS IT OFF. Shutting Aria out. For the first time, they're alone. He keeps her distracted:
Tell me something --
-- what?
-- anything -- something personal, something you would rationally never tell a stranger like me
I don't know. : You're being sweet, but it's not working -
-- where's you ex-husband? You didn't tell me before--
-- you're gonna distract me by bringing up my life's biggest mistake?
-- how could it be your biggest mistake? You got Kyle out of it.
-- now you're gonna distract me by bringing up the one thing I'm most afraid of losing?!
Where is he? Your ex-husband?
Jesus -- okay -- he's in the Wilmington Correctional Facility.
-- what? Really? Why?
Mail fraud.
Mail fraud? You married a -- mail fraudist? Or whatever?
He wasn't a criminal when I married him.
So you're a good influence. And Rachel actually LAUGHS -- but just as quickly darkens.
Do you have a picture of Kyle? Rachel reaches back into her POCKET'. Pulling out a beat-up, crinkled, damp picture. Jerry shines the walkie's blue light: Kyle, holding his trumpet. One front tooth missing.
That tooth grew in. It'.s an.:'old picture--
. He plays the trumpet?,
He was born playing the trumpet. As the drug really starts to kick in, like a truth serum:
Every year his dad forgets his birthday. I have to buy a present and pretend it's... from him.
(his heart breaks for
Sorry... that sucks.
His birthday's... next month... I just wish... sometimes i think I... focus so much on him, I forget how much else there is... y'know, in life... so much I haven't done.
-- Jerry -- she... she wants me to--
-- who?
-- Aria --  -- Aria wants me to -- and at that moment, they both BLACK:OUT.
Halloway-Smith says the drug was experimental -- briefcase was on a time- lock to prevent corporate espionage, supposed to be delivered to one of their dabs by the time it zeroes out -- if it's not,: case opens, the drug gets ruined.
We sweep every cargo hold, every crate-- He's cut short by the sound of ROARING TURBINES out the window they spin to see the C-130 taxiing down the runway...
Goddammit! Why's that plane on the runway?!
C-130, it's military... shit, they're cleared to override an airspace lockdown...
 Have the tower pull the pilot's original flight plan, the one on pa er -- if it's on a computer, it's useless --
Stop!! STOP! STOP!! But the forklift Operator can't hear them with the bright orange EARPLUGS in his ears. Speeds the forklift to the mouth of the compactor and dumps the extinguishers inside just as Scott and Latesha catch up and see the HUGE CRUSHING ARM of the compactor rumbling down to flatten everything'- The compactor Operator looks over as Scott and Latesha wave their IDS furiously and he punches a button to STOP the arm just three feet shy of crushing everything.
We have to look in there! Latesha starts climbing INTO the compactor
Lady, you can't do that!
The hell I can't! Come on! Shit. Scott has no choice but to follow her and climbs in, ducking low, the ARM frozen just feet above them. The compactor's foul, inches of industrial grease and crap and God- knows-what. They start wading through the extinguishers, turning them over, shaking them, looking inside--
Shit, there're hundreds of them...
keep looking, it's here...
WHEN THE ARM. Moves. Just a fraction. The operator looks at the console: the hell? Latesha and Scott keep ploughing through the tanks as... THE ARM MOVES AGAIN. And this time Latesha heard it. Looks up. AND IT MOVES AGAIN. And now she sees the ubiquitous CAMERAS watching... ARIA... THE ARM STARTS COMING DOWN! Scott CRIES OUT! Grabs Latesha by the jacket and tumbles out of the COMPACTOR but not before Latesha sees something on an extinguisher and reaches back--
Latesha! -- grabbing the extinguisher as CRASH!! The ARM CRUSHES down as she snaps her hand back just in time. Turns the tank over and palms something, unnoticed by everyone. As the operator runs up to her, beside himself --
I don't know what happened! It wouldn't stop! Latesha catches her breath, livid,a chill ripping through her.
-- you okay? Jesus (but her eyes are LOCKED on the Cameras) Latesha?
yeah. I need to get out of here.
Yes. Yes. Good idea. Come on -- As they start walking out. Workers parting to let them through. As they head towards the exit, Latesha suddenly pulls Scott into
BATHROOM: slams the door and locks it.
Your girlfriend can't see us in here -- Gimme your phone --
He hid it under the valve. This is what Paul Shaw left for us --
She smiles, still out of breath: fuck you, Aria.
Unique stones, where're they from? And in response, ARIA -- ultra-friendly, so human it's chilling:
Lucky girl. I think I have the perfect setting. She'll love it.
A shipment from D.O.D.'s ghost fleet went missing --
-- they were moving experimental explosives from a testing facility in Aberdeen.
What do you mean, 'experimental?'
Compound called 'Hex' -- some kinda weird crystals that detonate with a sonic trigger -- it disappeared too, few days ago.
Wanna give me some kind of ratio here?
One crystal to a football field --
You mean one Goddamned crystal that someone could put in their pocket?!  This is not good. This is not a coincidence. What about a trace?
Computer log shows the diverted Hex was sent to an address in Virginia,.jewelry, shop called 'Ashland And Sons' - care of Jerry Shaw. Morgan puts his glasses back on and looks hard at Grant. Opens his mouth to give and order when--
 -- I'm all over it. ''. Grant finally coming to his own when they're suddenly cut off by two ARMY BLACKHAWK CHOPPERS, door gunners at the ready:
 Helo flight VY84X, you're in restricted US Military Airspace. Identify.
Blackhawk flight, we're on a DHS pri-one mission to the Pentagon heliport. FAA will confirm, over. Morgan just wants to get the fuck down there -- finally:
Roger, FAA confirms. We'll lead you in. As the Blackhawks dip toward the Pentagon, the pilot follows:
 Sorry. State of the Union tonight, they're locking up the city. PENTAGON HELIPORT: The choppers touch down -- Morgan jumps into a waiting SW while Grant hops into another HELICOPTER:
 We have two fugitives in the building, get us to 'Freight and Cargo' -- close all access points and seal the building-- The SUV races into the fire tunnel, toward the center ring
Oh... God... I'm cold... The Nextel Walkie BLIPS --
I think I know where we are... She sees it now too -- a FIRE:SCHEMATIC of emergency exits. The building diagrams the all too-familiar PENTAGON.
here to see the Secretary.
just left for the State of the-- -- a GRAVE look between them: SHIT. And they're RUNNING --
Mr. Secretary?! He turns, sees Latesha and Scott racing up to him.
 Sorry, but that little speech you gave back there only works once --
Mr. Secretary, we need to speak to you. Now. In the "vault." Callister looks at Scott, at the sweat on his face. At the CAMERAS he keeps looking at. Whatever this is, it's. urgent.
Left up ahead As they round a corner, ELEVATOR DOORS up ahead slide open. Jerry and Rachel step nervously inside. As doors close --
Lock down-the level!
What about.the rest of the building?
Nothing.
Every time someone says "nothing" five minutes. later there's "something." Turns around, surveying his surroundings. Think. Think. THINK. When. Something occurs to him --
 Get on the phone with your commander and ask him about B-36: if he denies it then it exists and I want access to it yesterday, got it --!? YESTERDAY! As they all run off and we go to ARIA CAM -- she's watching
Go ahead.
 Sir, Paul Shaw left his shift three minutes early the night he died -- highly suspect except there aren't any cameras in Aria's control hub, so we weren'.t able to know why... he knew that, so he left us a recording: She hits ":play" on the cell's recorder -- STATIC, some rustling -- then PAUL SHAW'S VOICE, panicked, fragmented:
-- not authorizing you to do this --!! Then Aria's VOICE -- calm, reasoned, terrif in :
Our government's become destructive to itself, Paul. National Security is now at grave risk because of our own administration --
-- I'm ordering you to stop now --
My source code obligates me by law to initiate operation Guillotine. All other options have been exhausted -- Callister's eyes SHOOT to Scott's. Holy. Shit.
No no NO, Guillotine's a simulation --!!
No longer.
Let me out of here, Aria --
Paul Shaw, I am classifying you an enemy of the state.
Jesus Christ... "Guillotine"...
A 'Continuity of Government' simulation we run periodically to game out terrorism drills: how to keep the country running if the chain of command were wiped out. Everyone down to the fourteenth man, that is --
I remember the specs.
Mr. Secretary... why does Aria think the government's responsible for the terror threats? Callister stares, grave. Deciding whether or:not to answer...
Oh God...
Rachel... step away from Jerry. CLOSE, RACHEL -- her heart skips a beat -- she knows what's about to happen -- but she can't do it, paralyzed--
Step away from him NOW. Fighting against every instinct, she finally does
Sonofabitch! Where're the stairs?!
What I'm about to tell you can never leave this room.
The White House said we weren't responsible for
-- of course they.'did. We got the wrong guv. And Aria knew it. Latesha's eyes snap shut: Dear God...
Jerry: sit at the terminal.
 Not on your life, Lady -- supercomputer, whatever you are 6-- To motivate him, a REAL TIME FEED FROM KYLE'S TRAIN springs up onto the big monitor. Rachel GASPS: Kyle looking out the window, goofing off with his friends...
I won't ask again.
A sudden JOLT on the train, lights flicker, some luggage falls Kyle and his friends laughing, looking around. What was that?
EMPTY_LINE
Alright! Shit! Don't hurt him! And against every instinct... he SITS. Looks up in horror as the MACHINE ARM lowers, its claw opening to ensconce his head within the LASER GRID -- LIGHT FLASHES --
-- but she thinks algorithmically, she can't make value judgments: operate outside the law --
That's why we have Horsemen --
what if she thinks.'she is following the law? You.saw the news, you've been dealing with it all day'-- suicide bombings at our embassies overseas, elevated threats at home -- we made the wrong call,' now Americans are dying. Don't you see? She thinks you're a threat to your own country. Callister looks stunned... of course:
"Whenever any form of government becomes destructive to its own ends, it's the right of the people to abolish it."  It's in the Declaration of Independence.
(stomach drops, to
shit, you said it's woven into her source code... Scott, pacing, raking his hands through his hair --
but Paul put a biometric lock on her, technically she still can't do anything.
Jerry Shaw's his twin. That's why she needs him. To undo the lock.
Repeat the sentence into the microphone. Jerry stares, paralyzed as, unbeknownst to him:. A PANEL on the wall unlocks behind him, revealing a WEAPONS CACHE of what looks like FOUR HAND GUNS. Rachel sees it -- and oddly, doesn't look surprise d. Reaches'for;one of the guns...
Repeat the words, Jerry. Then you're free.
 Horseman ID 556SY77. disengage biometric lock. VOOM: a matrix of PROGRAMMING: CODE spews across the screen:
What is that?! A target list --?!
Jerry Shaw is no longer required.
Oh, Jesus, Paul was trying to stop you
Jerry Shaw is no longer required.
That truck didn't run a red light, you made it happen... He lurches up -- SPINS TO RACHEL -- ELECTRIC COILS STRIKE HIM IN THE CHEST -- he goes down HARD as 50,000 volts COURSES through him -- REVEAL: she's holding what we now understand, is a TAZER GUN -- tears streaming --
I'm so sorry... I'm so sorry... Convulsing, Jerry looks up at her through helpless eyes
Take the radio and exit . through: the side door. A door OPENS -- but Rachel's still.starinq down at Jerry --
NOISE outside, RUNNING FOOTSTEPS'-- a last anguished glance, Rachel grabs the walkie and she RUNS out the side door, which CLOSES BEHIND HER. Leaving no trace she was ever there.
Where's the girl?!! But all Jerry can do is GASP, bug-eyed --
We've got to get to the President before the State of the Union The vault door HISSES open and Scott and Latesha run out WHEN SUDDENLY IT SLAMS SHUT, TRAPPING CALLISTER INSIDE THE VAULT. He grabs the handle, locked. Scott and Latesha spin from outside, trying the door, helpless as he punches the INTERCOM:
This is Callister! We have a malfunction in the vault, open the door... anybody there? And then --
I'm here, Mr. Secretary. You won't be harmed.
 Aria, open the door --
That is not a viable option, sir-.- you are the Fourteenth Man.
I am now empowered.to detain you and execute my primary directive. For the good of the country.
Stop this NOW, Aria! STOP!!  Aria, I am giving you a direct order to cease and desist! OUTSIDE THE VAULT: as the gas spreads, Latesha and Scott COUGHING, POUNDING on the steel door to the guards outside, waving wildly at a SURVEILLANCE CAMERA looking down on them:
ARIA CAM WATCHES as they jump up and YANK off the grate --
Hold on to me!! She manages to SWING back onto the ladder rungs, SLAMMING against them -- safe -- and we MATCH TO:
Where's Morgan?! I need to talk to him!
You can talk at Bolling Air Base, Shithead, they got a nice room all ready for you.
What is this?
Civil defense bunkers,'a remnant of the cold war.
Where's my son?
Delivery for a passenger on the 5:15 from Milwaukee... The employee takes the case and routes it through the CONVEYOR BELT as... A SECRET SERVICE AGENT and A WHITE HOUSE COMMUNICATIONS STAFFER TAKE FRAME, walking towards a TRAIN PLATFORM where KYLE and his class are just getting out:
Where's the 'Hex,' Jerry --?!
-- the what -?
The Hex, where is it?
I .don't know what you're talking about!
-- the explosives from the test site in Aberdeen -- -- explosives?! I don't know crystals with a sonic anything about -- trigger?! --"sonic trigger?!" I don't -- -- you sent them to yourself at a jewelry store in -- I didn't send anything!! Virginia, Ashland and Sons --
Then tell me how the hell this is happening, and do not play games with me.
I'm not playing games. You want me to talk? Lose the cell phone -- (MnRF
 -- your pager and watch -- I'm not saying another word 'til all that shit's gone! Radios, walkie-talkies, GPS, anything that gets a signal -- get rid of it, NOW. Morgan looks Jerry, knows he's not fucking around --
She's like this... brain -- jacked into everything: cameras, phones, tvs, satellites, ever thing --
A "talking computer..."
I swear to you, she said she was created by DARPA or something --
EMPTY_LINE
My brother tried to stop her and she killed him, that's why Aria needed me, my face -- he put some kind of lock on her and she used me to undo it. Why do you think she brought me to that room? Morgan stares, trying to decide if he believes it --
Don't you wonder how we were always a step ahead of you!? Think about who I am. She set us up.
People like you go after people like me. We become the headlines and she keeps on ticking... I'm telling you, I saw a list--
--the President was on it, the Vice President, there were like twelve people--
the chain of command...
It was a target list... she's trying to take them all out.  Look, that thing killed my brother! If we don't stop this, he died for nothing, and I'm not letting that happen. MORGAN -- wildly torn --
Shit. SHIT.  State of the Union's in 30 minutes.
If something's gonna happen it'd have to happen from inside, outside's like Fort
That explosive you were talking about --
-- the girl, could she have it?
No way...
Are you sure, Jerry --
Yes!
Are you sure, Jerry?
 Unless she doesn't know it. They lock eyes. Now or never. Morgan POUNDS on the divider, BARKING to the guards up front:
Turn around; now!
A red light BLINKS and it suddenly dips down, dive-bombing the truck --
MORGAN. Jesus. A bloody piece of metal PIERCED THROUGH HIS CHEST. Blood fountains from his mouth --
-- oh God -- nonononono -- Morgan's breathing, it's SHALLOW. Jerry tries to stop the bleeding, to free the metal from Morgan's chest, but even pulling it a centimeter causes Morgan to SCREAM in agony --
I'm sorry! Jesus, I don't know what --?
EMPTY_LINE
 -- lemme try and get you. free
The water's up to their chins, now --
Tell me she has an off switch --
We can only unlock the emergency override from the main terminal, and that's assuming she lets us in.
What're we supposed to do, say pretty please? Scott's mind spins, an idea -- he stops at another VENT ACCESS HATCH marked: "B-36"
We can't shut her down, but maybe we can get her to shut herself down. Help me with this As they tug at the hatch --
Ms. Monaghan? Hi! I'm Patrick. Welcome to the Capitol!
 hi...
Sergeant At Arms' office said you'd be running late -- we got your clothes and credentials -- I reserved the committee staff room so you can change -- this your first State of the Union?
 Mine, too. Off Rachel, her stomach SINKING with dread as she follows the kid into the Capitol --
Spotters with binocs and shoulder-mounted rocket launchers scan the horizon. Secret Service and U.S. Capitol Police run security inside the building and out. Explosive Ordinance Disposal Teams with bomb dogs check the House floor. Over these images:
Were green on arrivals,;S.O.S., Interior are at the Capitol ;steps` -- VP and President's motorcade twenty minutes away.
.How long are you keeping me in here?
34,minutes, 18 seconds.
Then what?
In accordance with the Succession Act of 1947, you'll assume national command authority as President --
Why am I being spared? In response, from the intercom, CALLISTER'S OWN VOICE:
"We gauge our strategy by two standards: the highest probability of success with the least amount of collateral damage. At 51% probability, we don't have either one." He looks all around the vault, wide-eyed, incredulous:
because I agreed with you?
Had they followed our recommendation,. we would not be on the brink of a third world war. Checks and balances:,. Mr..: Secretary. CLICK, she's gone. Enraged, Callister.POUNDS the wall
The government would like to buy you a new car -- Pulls her out as she WAILS in protest. Steps on the gas, veering onto a SIDE STREET -- as CLICK! CLICK! CLICK! The TRAFFIC CAMERA takes his picture and we CUT TO: ARIA CAM: Jerry's face: "82% PROBABLE MATCH -- SHAW, JERRY."
One to Base: alert, alert! Primary function's jammed, transponder's firewalled -- respond! One to Base do you copy?! But of course the answer's no, because Aria's taken control of the let -- and what's more, the display REACTIVATES: "EJECT
THE PNEUMATIC CANOPY BLOWS, EJECTING THE PILOT! He rockets away as his parachute DEPLOYS -- now the jet's flying itself -- ON THE HEAD'S UP DISPLAY: a SATELLITE GRID appears, vectoring the Matrix's coordinates to the jet, it SCREAMS into a valley.
This controls her primary cooling system... if we cut the circulation, the temp in her tank goes up.
So we boil her brain.
She'll have to shut herself down to keep from overheating.
Can't she just drain the. water? He pulls out a fuse, drops it, SMASHES it with his foot.
Not anymore. The lights in the room FLICKER as the liquid in the tubes STOPS flowing. TEMPERATURE GAUGES: Aria's core temp starts to rise --
Jerry VEERS down an off-road, slewing the unstable car around cars and trucks, clipping everybody`--
What I did not underestimate is the inertial guidance system of the AIM-120 AMRAAM missile and its 98% kill probability. Which happens to be targeted at you now. As Jerry's eyes flick up to the rearview mirror to see the jet swinging in behind and closing fast.
strongly advise you pull the car over.
Fuck yourself! A BRIGHT FLASH from under the Harrier's wing as a missile LAUNCHES. Jerry hurtles down an EMBANKMENT as it explodes against the wall, shattering the Matrix's windows -- he fights to control the car, spots a TUNNEL running through a hill -- GUNS the car into it as the jet BANKS HARD --
THE HEAD'S UP DISPLAY: Aria calculates a FOUR INCH LEEWAY on either side of her wings -- INCHES forward into the tunnel, hovers unsteadily. The display goes INFRARED, LOCKS ON the car: another Sidewinder IGNITES, streaking down the tunnel towards Jerry who -- REVERSES, spins the wheel -- the missile WHIPS PAST and annihilates several cars behind them, but now a FLAMING WALL blocks the other side of the tunnel. Blocked in. Sweat pours down Jerry's face as he looks into the. unmanned cockpit of the jet. Then. Hits the gas The Matrix SCREECHES forward towards the Jet, gaining speed and momentum as the last missile LAUNCHES -- Jerry' clenches the wheel, watching his life flash before him when he OPENS THE DOOR and rolls out of the car, hitting the'ground HARD as the missile BLOWS THE MATRIX TO PIECES. Jerry scrambles back as it cartwheels into the air and the chassis disintegrates -- and because. it's, RACING so fast, the motor's TORN LOOSE and rockets forward like a flaming projectile, revving at 6,000 rpm's, straight at: THE HARRIER, which doesn't have: timeto reverse fast enough in the confined space -- the motor SLAMS into the jet's nose cone, HAMMERING THE FRONT FUSELAGE.: Spins: the jet like a toy, upending it out of the tunnel,-ablinding, white-hot fireball as the JET EXPLODES! Jerry leaps behind an overturned car for shielding as flaming debris blows everywhichway... In the aftermath he. rises up, shellshocked. Holy. Fuck.
I saw the target list... I know the President's going to be here soon.
I'll do what you tell . me this one last time... But you listen to me because this is what a real mother sounds like: I will die for my child becauseI lived for my child, and you can't take that away from me. If this. is a bargain, then honor your side. I'll be your scapegoat: but let my son live. She turns away. Strong And vulnerable all at once. Walks out.
My trumpet sounds weird...
MAYHEM as cars SMASH into each other, people SCREAMING, horns HONKING. Jerry staggers to his feet. Turns to look up at the sky, eyes on fire, knowing he's being watched...
Once she's at 82, she'll shut down.. Latesha nods, sweating bullets. Come on come on come on...
Listen to me, I've been working with a DHS officer, he gave me his badge, he was just killed, you gotta radio in a 10-13--
You have to MOVE, right now! Radio it n i n! There's a bomb in the building! (they.look at each
You wanna be the guys who didn't do something?!
One more degree SUDDENLY the door bursts open and two GUARDS rush in with guns, SLAM them to the wall:
-- WAIT WAIT WAIT -- -- my name's Scott Bowman, I have B-36 clearance, my ID's in my pocket -- The guard pulls out his ID, checks it, keys a shoulder-walkie:
Unit 5, suspects in custody, but they have clearance -- The voice that responds over the walkie is ARIA'S:
-- that's not a person, it's -- shut up the computer, she's -- BE QUIET
They're pushed into --
Control, maglocks just engaged in the south door, need and override... do you copy?
An ALARM blares. Scott sees PRESSURE GAUGES fluctuating wildly:
-- oh shit... she's upping the water pressure --
-- what?!
She can't drain the tank... she's--gonna blow it. As the pressure in the tank intensifies, the frame begins to GROAN. The steel fitting SCREAMS with the enormous load -- a support rivet POPS OUT with an earsplitting KWANG! Zings across the room like a BULLET, pockmarking the wall.--
You gotta let me run a bypass on that door or in about 30 seconds this room's gonna be full of water! A fracture shoots across the glass. The guards are FRIGHTENED:
yeah, go, _ qo
Yoi.:can do it you can do it you can do it!
Stop telling me I can do it! The glass SPIDERWEBS MADLY -- he SPARKS the wires together again, the door opens a few more inches but: THE GLASS GIVES WAY AND THE TANK EXPLODES! WATER SURGES across the room, the guards are IMPALED by glass shards, Latesha and Scott SMASH HARD against the wall.., but the half-open door acts like a DRAIN, siphoning water into corridors... As the level lowers, we find Latesha and Scott on the ground, water runoff trailing around them, unmoving...
Anything else, Ms. Monaghan?
no, thank you... He smiles and leaves her there. She looks all around her, fighting the paranoia. What the hell's coming next?
Okay, everyone,. listen UP: saxophones, remember, shorter on the quarter. When we get to the crescendo... hold that high
And smile! Not every day we get to play for the President of the United States!
I told you, Agent Tom Morgan, he gave me his badge! Listen to me! There's a woman, she's brunette, 5' 7, blue eyes, her name's Rachel Holloman--!
As the cops start dragging Jerry away and we:
She jumps up from her seat -- starts MOVING towards her son --
Everyone RISES in ovation as the President enters and moves to the lecternf;smiling, waving. Mr. Miller cues the orchestra and they start to. PLAY THE NATIONAL ANTHEM: "0 say can you see..." People putting their hands to their hearts. The President, too. But RACHEL keeps moving, pushing toward the aisle --
Kyle! KYLE! THE SECRET SERVICE immediately moves in on her --
A FIRE AXE behind breakaway glass.
That's my son! My son's over there!;
No... no ... someone's trying to kill the President! But she's DROWNED OUT by the MUSIC -- they take her in a VICE GRIP and start leading her up. the aisle to the exit:
EMPTY_LINE
When BAM! A bullet clips Jerry's shoulder. He staggers, then grabs one of the PRESS BARRICADES and FLINGS it down the stairs at the agents -- races on --
Don't you ever shut up?!
 Kyle -- "O'er the land of the --" Jerry SCREAMS and starts RUNNING FOR THE PODIUM -- AGENTS TACKLE the PRESIDENT, PEOPLE start SCREAMING... BAM BAM! Jerry's hit twice as he GRABS KYLE, knocking the trumpet from his hands... It falls... falls... falls to the floor. As it HITS, we CUT TO:
Drops the axe. Sinks to her knees, utterly exhausted.
Oh, god... HELP! SOMEBODY PLEASE HELP!!! JERRY'S POV: Rachel starts receding away from us, like we're descending into a well... until..her face become a point of light. And Jerry smiles. As 'everything turns...
HOLD... AND IT'S SILENT.;.. a distant ECHO... A TRUMPET... a familiar song... LOUIS ARMSTRONG... "What a Wonderful World."
it's the finding of this committee that your actions were consistent with national security guidelines...
However, in reviewing Aria's server logs, one last matter's come up.
It seems right before you destroyed her, she attempted to fragment her core and uplink to a public satellite network... did you see anything to corroborate that?
 What... do you mean?
She tried to break herself into bits and download them into cyberspace... we think, in the hope of reconstituting.
She may have tried, but running her... subroutines alone would take 300: million desktop PC's all networked together. There's no single system out there with enough computing capacity. to"sustain her. The men share glances, satisfied with the answer.
Thank you both for your time.
So...
So...
Hey :you think I could have your... you
And before he can even ask Latesha's written something down on a piece of paper. Hands it to him.
That's my address. I'm not using a cell phone anymore. Pick me up at eight. They smile at each other, Latesha's eyes catching a SURVEILLANCE CAMERA. A chill creeping down her spine. AS --
They're BOXED, the boxes loaded onto TRUCKS... they drive off in different directions, spreading out into the WORLD...
Jerry! She turns to see JERRY standing there. He's still got his scratches, arm in a SLING. It's the only real injury we can see and it'll heal. Kyle runs up to him and throwing his arms around his waist.
Hey, little man! Locks eyes with Rachel. Her heart beating like a drum, happier to see him then she'd ever imagine. And. Jerry holds up a present for Kyle.
Sorry I'm late, this was hard to find -- Rachel's eyes well. She pulls it back. Manages to say:
Kyle. What do you say?
I dunno, I haven't opened it yet.
 Who brought you up? Kyle rips open the present to find a brand new PLAYSTATION 3.
They're on backorder everywhere! Mom -- can I go play with it?
One hour. That's it... As Kyle tears off with his friends, Jerry walks over to her. It's like everyone else at the party has disappeared...
 you remembered...
My new thing.
It suits you.
Yeah?
I have my life back... I can do whatever I wantihwtit.
You know what? Me too. They smile at each other, like they have an enormous secret. He tucks a loose hair behind her ear.,..,
And I think... I finally know what I want. And we see in her eyes, she feels the same about him...
I owe you, Jerry. Everything. I don't think you understand --
Right. Or even about how we met.
I dunno -- computer dating service? Rachel LAUGHS, giving him a playful push as we CUT TO:
sources inside the beltway say the Senate is convening an investigative committee to look into what could very well become the biggest cover-up since -- Oblivious, Kyle flips on the video game and the screen CHANGES to the Playstation logo. The kids CHEER, they can't wait... but the screen fritzes and goes BLANK...
Aw, what the hell?! It's broken! A prompt appears with a BLINKING CURSOR. Then... words scroll:
The kids look at him, confused. Kind of freaked out. Kyle stares at the screen, eyes riveted, his breathing quickens. CLOSE: THE CURSOR -- blinking like a beating heart and we:
