None of this would have happened if Mr. McAllister hadn't meddled the way he did.  He should have just accepted things as they are instead of trying to interfere with destiny.  You see, you can't interfere with destiny.  That's why it's destiny.  And if you try to interfere, the same thing's going to happen anyway, and you'll just suffer.
Morning, Lowell
Twenty-one... twenty-two.
 Good luck!
Good morning, Mr. McAllister.
Not wasting any time, are you, Tracy?
 You know what they say about the early bird.
Yes, I do.
Well, good luck there, Tracy
Thanks, Mr. M.
No matter what he says, Mr. McAllister had it out for me from the start.  Oh sure, he was all smiles and good wishes and everything, but underneath he was just as unfair and petty as anybody else.
He'll probably tell you how committed he was to teaching and democracy and integrity and all. Don't be fooled.
It's hard to remember how the whole thing started, the whole election mess. What I do remember is that I loved my job. I was a teacher, an educator, and I couldn't imagine doing anything else.
Hey, Mr. M. Mr. M.!
Stop daydreaming! Get back to work!
The students knew it wasn't just a job for me.
C'mon, wolverines!  Defense!  Let's hold 'em back!
I got involved. And I cared.
And I think I made a difference.
I knew I touched the students' lives during their difficult young adult years, and I took that responsibility seriously.
In the twelve years I taught U.S. History, Civics and current Events at Millard, I was voted Teacher of the Year three times - a school record.
Standing in front of a room full of young people, trying to make them think that's how I wanted to spend the rest of my life,
So would this be an ethical situation or a moral situation? What's the difference between ethics and morals, anyway?
Anybody
Derek
Uh, ethics is like when you, uh, do what society tells you is right and morals are like, uh...
You're on the right track,  who can help him out?
..morals are when...
Michelle?
Morals are like lessons, you know, like the moral of a story; it's what you learn from a story or a fable or something. . .
Or a life experience.  Good.  And ethics?
That's more like, urn... Ethics is how you use the morals... that you learn from a story?
Okay.  But we're still missing something key here.  What are we missing?
 I know.
 Tracy.
Ethics are...
Tracy Flick.  Tracy Flick.  I've never met anyone quite like Tracy Flick.
She first showed up in my life as a freshman delegate in student council. I'd seen a lot of ambitious students come and go over the years, but I could tell right away Tracy Flick was different.
It wasn't long before everyone knew who Tracy Flick was.  She made sure of that. Her drive was astonishing.  Even scary.
Some people say I'm an overachiever, but I think they're just jealous.
My Mom always tells me I'm different -- you know, special. And if you look at all the things I've accomplished so far, I think you'd have to agree.
Here I am in Oklahoma.
 I'm just a girl who can't say no...
And here I am on KMHS, our student-run TV station.
..that's why Principal Hendricks made the controversial announcement that the littering must stop.  Tracy Flick reporting.
But it was in SGA, the Student Government Association, where I made my biggest mark.  I never missed a meeting, and I volunteered for every committee as long as I could lead it.
I agree with Ashley.  We should rent the barrels at least a day beforehand. What happened last time was a travesty, I mean, we were --
 Yeah, no, I know, Tracy.  That's why we're -- Look, can we just take a vote on this?
Now at the end of her junior year, Tracy was poised to win the presidency of the student body.  And so far she was running unopposed.
...the rules of conduct determined by a culture at a...
Oh.  There's one more thing about Tracy I think you should know.
Her pussy gets so wet you can't believe it.
A few months before the election, she'd had an affair with my best friend Dave Novotny.
Don't tell me that.  I don't want to know that.
She's incredible.  Everything just gets soaked.
Dave came to Millard the year after I did, and we hit it off right away. We backed each other up in teachers' meetings and shared an interest in 60's music and micro-breweries.
You could tell Dave was one of those guys who taught because they never wanted to leave high school in the first place, and that could get a little irritating sometimes, but basically he was a real good guy.
 Foxy. . . Foxy. . . You know you're a cute little heartbreaker... Foxy... You know you're a sweet little love maker...
Our wives became best friends too. And when Dave and Sherry's son Darryl was born, they asked us to be godparents.
YOU probably think the worst - that Mr. Novotny was just taking advantage of one of his students, but it wasn't like that at all. Our relationship was based on mutual respect and admiration. I mean, during my sophomore year in geometry it was strictly professional between us -- I mean, nothing.
It wasn't until junior year when we worked together on the yearbook that things got serious.
One night he took us editors out to celebrate after a deadline. Eventually Dave and I were left alone and we got to talking - not like teacher and student, but like two adults.
You know, Tracy... I don't know how to say this, but...
what?
Well, I notice you don't seem to have any close friends at Millard. You seem to be kind of a loner.
No, I'm not. I'm just really busy.
I know.  I know its not by choice.  I just mean, well, being the kind of person you are, it must be really difficult to find someone you can talk to.
What do you mean? What kind of person am I?
What kind of person?
Tracy, I've been watching you for going on two years now, and I think you are one of the most talented, hard-working, sensitive, attractive, brilliant students -- no, human beings -- I have ever met.  I mean, you're the real thing.  Special.
 Thank you.
And I know sometimes people like you have to pay a price for their greatness, and that price is loneliness.
I don't know.  Maybe I'm wrong.  But it seems like you might need a friend.
Since I grew up without a dad, you might assume psychologically I was looking for a father figure.
But that had nothing to do with it at all.  It was just that Dave was so strong and made me feel so safe and protected.
It was the first time somebody ever saw the real me, the me that nobody else knows.
 Here, get down.
Look at you.
When I think back on my relationship with Mr. Novotny, what I miss most. is our talks.
You did it at your house?  Your own house?
Look, Jim...  Okay.  I know it all seems crazy, and maybe it did start out, you know, for the... for the sex and the danger.  But now it's different.  Jim, what I'm trying to tell you is that Tracy and I are totally, totally in love.
In love?
Yeah, it's serious.  I mean she inspires me in ways Sherry never has. She even wants to read my novel.
But you haven't written your novel.
That's the whole point. It's all in my head; it's right here.  I just got to get it out there. Tracy wants me to write it so she can read it.  It's beautiful.
Dave, I'm just saying this as your friend.  What you're doing is really, really wrong, and you've got to stop.
You're not just jealous, are you?  I mean, we both used to talk about her
 That was just talk!  Fantasy talk! What are you, nuts?  We talk about girls all the time, but it doesn't mean anything. I would never. . . I mean, I take very seriously our strict moral code.  The line you've crossed is... it's illegal and it's immoral.
I don't need a lecture on ethics, Jim, okay?  I know what --
I'm not talking about ethics.  I'm talking about morals.
Peek-a-boo!
 Look, I appreciate your concern. I really do.  But like I said, I got it under control.
I guess I don't have to tell you how all this turned out.
sits on the vinyl sofa.
Tracy's Mom -- she doesn't understand.
No, I'd say she doesn't.  I don't think I've ever seen a mother quite so upset. We're all very, very lucky she doesn't want this public.
But we're in love
Dave. Dave, look at me
I want you to get some help.
After Dave got fired, Sherry kicked him out of the house and filed for divorce.
Your novel? Are you fucking kidding me?
Sherry   Sherry  Sheerrry. ...
He ended up moving back to Milwaukee to live with his parents. I haven't heard from him in a long time. Poor guy. I warned him.
...certain time in history and
Okay.  We'll pick up here next time
Now that I have more life experience, I feel sorry for Mr. McAllister.
I mean, anyone who's stuck in the same little room saying the exact same things year after year for his whole life, wearing the same stupid clothes, while his students go on to good colleges and move to big cities and do great things and make loads of money has got to be at least a little jealous.  It's like my room says - the weak always try to sabotage the strong.
One thing that's important to know about me is that I'm an only child.  So my Mom is really devoted to me, and I love her so much.  She wants me to do all the things she wanted to do in life but couldn't.
See, Mom used to be a stewardess for Northwest and now works as a para-legal. She likes to write letters to successful women like Janet Reno and Elizabeth Dole and ask them how they got to be where they are and what advice do they have for me, Tracy, her daughter.
Nine times out of ten they say you have to hold on to your dreams no matter what.  The pressures women face mean you have to work twice as hard, and you can't let anything or anyone stand in your way.
One per person!  Put those back I
Eat me
Ninety-seven.. .ninety-eight.
But you know,  winning isn't everything.  If you play fair and follow all the rules thoroughly, you'll always come out ahead.  Win or lose, ethical conduct is the most important thing. Just ask Mr. McAllister.
Mr. McAllister? Mr. McAllister! Wait up
I got all my signatures.  One hundred and fifty-eight -- way more than I need!
Hey, that's super
Here they are.
You can put those in my box.  I'll look at them tomorrow.
Could you approve them now?  I'd like to kick off my campaign right away, you know, in the morning.
 Right
Looks good to me.
Aren't you supposed to keep them?
NO, that's fine
I thought you were supposed to keep them.
Okay, fine. Sure
Thanks for everything.
You bet.
 I can't wait to start campaigning.
Should be easy.  So far no competition.
Hell, you know, Coca-Cola's the world's number one soft drink, but they spend more money than anybody on advertising. I guess that's how come they stay number one.
Yeah.  Okay.  well, good luck Tracy
You know, Mr. M., when I win the presidency, that means you and I are going to be spending a lot of time together next year.  And I for one would like that time to be harmonious and productive. Wouldn't you?
Sure
Okay. That's good. I just wanted to make sure.
Good luck, Tracy.
I don't blame Tracy for what happened with Dave. How could I? Dave was an adult more than twice her age.
Sure, she got on my nerves once in a while, but I admired Tracy. I really did.
Thank God for Diane.  She was my best friend, my source of love and strength. Oh sure, we'd had our share of bumpy times, but we'd always seen them through.  After nine years of marriage, we were closer than ever.  And the secret? Good communication.
Anything wrong?
Everything's fine.  Just, you know, school.
...You know, Coca-Cola's by far the number one soft drink... When I win the presidency we're going to be spending a lot of time together... a lot of time... lots and lots and lots of time... president and advisor. . .
...harmonious and productive... close and special... you and I...  so close... so intimate... together...
 Paul.
Why. . . ? Why. . . ?
I was so mad at God when I broke my leg at Shadow Ridge over Christmas break.
The doctors told me I'd have to quit sports for at least a couple years if not forever.
...which meant no first-string quarterback in the fall. It was like the end of my life!
When I got back to school everybody was so supportive, and they all wanted to sign my cast and everything...
... but I still couldn't shake the feeling that now my life had no purpose. What did God want from me?
Why did I exist?
Sometimes you can search everywhere for answers. Then one day destiny just taps you on the shoulder. I know, because it happened to me.
Paul, could I talk to you for a minute?
Mr. McAllister changed my life. And no matter what they say he did or did not do, I believe he is a good man.
Paul, I know you've been pretty down since your accident.
I wanted to play next year so bad I could taste it.  And maybe go on to...
I know.  I understand disappointment. I really do.
Yeah.
But you've got a big choice right now. You can choose to be depressed about it for the rest of your life. Or you can choose to see it for what it really is: an opportunity.  I personally think you have a big future ahead of you, and I don't mean the fleeting glory of sports.
What do you mean?
Let me give you a clue.  You're a born leader.  You're one of the most popular students at Millard.  You're honest and straightforward.  You don't choke under pressure, as we all saw in that amazing fourth quarter against Westside.  The other kids look up to you.  What does that spell?
Student... council... president.
Who, me?  Nooo.  I never... I don't know anything about that stuff, Mr. M. Besides, that's Tracy Flick's thing. She's always working so hard and --
Yeah, no, she's a go-getter, all right.
And she's super-nice
Yeah.  But one person assured of victory kind of undermines the whole idea of a democracy, doesn't it? That's more like a... well, like a dictatorship, like we studied.
Paul, what's your favorite fruit?
Huh?  Oh.  Uh... pears
takes a piece of chalk from the lip of the blackboard.
Okay, let's say
No, wait -- apples.  Apples.
Fine.  Let's say all you ever knew was apples.  Apples, apples and more apples. You might think apples were pretty good, even if you occasionally got a rotten one. Then one day there's an orange. And now you can make a decision. Do you want an apple, or do you want an orange? That's democracy.
I also like bananas.
Exactly.  So what do you say?  Maybe it's time to give a little something back.
The right side is too high. The right side. Just a smidge.
 Hey Paul, you going over to Anthony's on Friday, or what did you decide?
I gotta talk to him first.
Who put you up to this?
Huh?  Oh, hi, Tracy
Who put you up to this?
What do you mean?
You just woke up this morning and suddenly decided to run for president?
No.  Uh... I just... you know, I just thought --
Thought what?
Well, see, I was talking to Mr. McAllister about my leg and everything... and how I still want to, you know, do something for the school and --
So Mr. McAllister asked you to run.
Well, I mean, you know, I talked to him and everything, but he just said he thought it was a good idea... and how there's all different kinds of fruit and...  It's nothing against you, Tracy. You're the best.  I just thought --
Okay, Mr. Popular.  You're on.
You might think it upset me that Paul Metzier had decided to run against me, but nothing could be further from the truth.  He was no competition for me: it was like apples and oranges. It just meant I had to work a little harder, that's all.
You see, I believe in the voters. They understand that elections aren't just popularity contests. They know this country was built by people just like me who work very hard and don't have everything handed to them on a silver spoon.
Not like some rich kids who everybody likes because their fathers own Metzier Cement and give them trucks on their sixteenth birthday and throw them big parties all the time.  They don't ever have to work for anything.
They think they can all of a sudden one day out of the blue waltz right in with no qualifications whatsoever and try to take away what other people have worked for very, very hard their entire lives. No, it didn't bother me at all I
Paul... Paul... power... Paul... Paul for President... progress... promise... peanut... Paul-i-tics... yeah... President Paul... Punt for Paul!  No.
 What?
I told you ... I can't. I just -- It doesn't feel right anymore, you know?
If you could just get out of your head.
I said no!
Hey, Tammy, guess what happened today.
Don't you fucking knock?
Yeah.  So guess what happened.  So Mr. McAllister, he --  Oh hi. Lisa.
Paul, get out!
So Mr. M. calls me in and tells me --
I gotta go.
 You dumbshit!
What'd I do?
You know how they say one day a big meteor might come and crash into the Earth and kill everybody? Well, I think that would be a good thing.
Lisa
Stop! Wait!
Where 're you going?
I'm not like you.
What...?
I'm not a dyke, okay, and we're not in love. We were just... I was just experimenting.
How can something that seems so true turn out to be such a lie?
I mean Lisa and I were destined to be together. It was so obvious. Of all the people on the planet who had ever lived, somehow we'd found each other.
Lisa...
I remember one time Lisa and I did an experiment with asparagus to see how long it takes your pee to smell. We peed a little every five minutes.
For her it took about fifteen minutes, and for me it was twenty.
Everyday I found some new way to tell Lisa I loved her.
 If you died right now, I would throw myself into one of my Dad's cement trucks and get poured into your tomb.
But it just seemed like the closer we got, the more she pulled away.
Are you crazy?
What?
People can see this.
So?
These are private -- these are for us.
I know.
But other people can see them too.
I don't care.
Well, I do.
What did I do to make her change? What's wrong with me?
 Lisa.
Sometimes when I'm sad, I sit and watch the power station.
They say if you lie between two of the main wires, your body just evaporates. You become a gas.  I wonder what that would feel like.
I don ' t know what I did to make Lisa hate me so much, but somehow she decided to hurt roe. And she knew exactly what to do.
I sure was surprised the day Lisa Flanagan asked me for a ride home and ended up blowing me.
I've wanted this for so long.
Uhhh... teeth. Teeth.
Sorry.
Life is so weird.  First Lisa has a big fight with my sister, and the next thing you know she's my girlfriend.
Since Lisa knew all about public relations and stuff, she offered to help me with my campaign.  We made a great team!
It seemed so natural, the two of us together.  It was like destiny.
That spring was perfect.  My leg wasn't bugging me too much, and the weather was so nice.  And every afternoon after school. Lisa and I would go to her house to fuck and have a swim.  It was like we were in a world all our own.
I had to do something.  I didn't know what, but I had to do something.
Around that time Diane and I were hanging out a lot at Sherry Novotny's house, giving her our love and support and helping her make it through a difficult time.
Jim, don't.  You're scaring him.
He likes it.
Here.  Give him to me. (as she takes Darryl) is little Darryl dizzy?  That's it. . come here. . .
You got him?
Yeah.
Diane really wanted to have kids -- and so did I -- but it seemed like there was always a reason to wait: she had to finish nursing school, I had to get my masters, we needed a new house, we needed more money.  Finally we just decided to go for it...
...but for over a year we hadn't had any luck.  And Diane was getting desperate.
You gonna do it? You gonna do it?
Yeah, uh, just a minute
Come on, doit. Doit. Fill me up. Come on, fill me up
Yeah, just --
Do it!
Okay!
Could you hand me the remote?
Say, Jim. Jim.
Could you get this? I can't
Sure.
Without Dave around. Sherry needed a lot of help around the house.
Here?
 More this way.
Okay.  Give me the drill.
I'd always liked Sherry, but we'd never had a chance to spend any time alone together.  How with Dave out of the picture, I began to see what an incredibly sensitive and giving person she was.
Plus she had finally dropped all that weight from her pregnancy, and really she looked great.
We got to be pretty good buddies.  I even took her to the mall one time while her car was in the shop.
What do you think?
You look great
I can't afford this stuff right now.
Oh, come on.  You've had a hard year, you're cooped up with the kid all the time.  Let go; live a little.
You sure?
So what do you think?  Should we get a room?
Should we get a what?
points at the motel.
Oh.
 That's not funny.
How'd it go?
Fine. You know. We just went to Crossroads.
You guys have fun?
 Yeah. No. I mean, you know.
What?
Well, Sherry's great.  But she can be a little much sometimes.
Oh, Jim! Oh, God!
Oh, God.  Just like that.  Oh yes. Fill me up...
Do it, Jim.  Fuck me.
Fuck me, Mr. McAllister
So like I was saying, things were going pretty well in my life.
... that is, until things started going all haywire with that damn election.
Tammy? Tammy, what are you doing?
You're the advisor.  You should stop her.  She's not qualified.  She's just a sophomore.
Calm down, Tracy.  Just calm down.
Are you sure all her signatures are real?  It's not easy to get all those signatures.
As far as I know, they--
We can't both run, can we?  We're brother and sister.  Can we?
It's a conflict of interest.  And Paul was first.
Anyone who gets signatures in on time can run.  And she got in just under the wire.  Nothing I can do.
Let me see them.  Let me see them
These are a bunch of burn-outs. And look at this one, I can't even read this one.
 Looks like Tim Kobza.
She's doing this to get back at me
For what?
I mean at you.
For what?
I don't know.  You're her brother you should know.
Tim Kobza?  Tim Kobza!  Who's he? I've never heard of him!
Look, why don't we just forget about Tammy?  We'll have the assembly tomorrow, everybody'll make their speeches, and I'm sure everything will be fine.
I love Millard High, and I will be a dedicated vice President. A vote for Jerry Slavin is a vote for good government. And even if I can't really stand up for you, I will.  Thank you.
Thank you, Jerry, and good luck. Again, Jerry is running unopposed for Vice President. So we'll move on now to the presidential race with three candidates running. The first in alphabetical order is Tracy Flick.
Poet Henry David Thoreau once wrote, "I cannot make my days longer, so I strive to make them better."  With this election, we here at Millard also have an opportunity to make our high school days better.  During this campaign I have had the opportunity to speak with many of you about your concerns.  I spoke with freshman Eliza Ramirez, who told me how alienated she feels from her own homeroom.  I spoke with sophomore Reggie Banks, who said his mother works in a cafeteria and can't afford to buy him enough spiral notebooks for his classes.  I won't bore you with long- winded promises about all the new and innovative things I will definitely achieve during the year in which it will be my honor and privilege to represent each and every one of you, but I can say that my years of experience on the student council have taught me the three most important attributes the president needs to possess;  commitment -
Eat me
Eat me raw!
If you can't be adults and give these candidates the courtesy they deserve, then you don't deserve to be called adults but children* Because that's what children are. And you'll be treated like children. So let's all listen up.
The three most important attributes the president needs to possess are: commitment, qualifications, and experience.  I'll add one more; caring. I care about Millard, and I care about each and every one of you, and together we can all make a difference.  One of the things I would like to establish is a regular open forum where any student can come and voice their concern about issues we face here at Millard.  I and the rest of the student council would then interface with the faculty and staff, so a continuous dialogue would exist.
I'd say she knows a thing or two about student-faculty dialogue.
When you cast your vote for Tracy Flick next week, you won't just be voting for me.  You'll be voting for yourself and for every other student Our days won't be any longer, but they can sure be better.  Thank you.
The next candidate for student body president is Paul Metzier.  Paul?
As many of you know I broke my leg pretty bad thi3 year and the experience has made me reevaluate what I want to do with my life and that is help people when you think about it a school is more than a school it's our second home where we spend all cur time and grow as individuals and a community but is our school everything it could be I want our school to reach its true potential that is why I am running for president.
I know what it is to fight hard and win like when we almost went to state last fall and I threw that fourth-quarter pass against Westside for the touchdown that won the game by three points I won't let you down like I didn't then I promise we can all score a winning  touchdown together. Vote Paul Metzier for president thank you.
Okay, Paul. Now our final candidate for President - another one of the Metzier clan -- sophomore Tammy Metzier.
People.  People I
Who cares about this stupid election?
We all know it doesn't matter who gets elected president of Millard. You think it's going to change anything around here, make one single person happier or smarter or nicer? The only person it matters to is the one who gets elected. The same pathetic charade happens every year, and everyone makes the same pathetic promises just so they can put it on their transcripts to get into college.  So vote for me, because I don't even want to go to college, and I don't care, and as president I won't do anything.  The only promise I make is that if elected I will immediately dismantle the student government, so that none of us will ever have to sit through one of these stupid assemblies again!
Tammy!   Tammy!  Tammy!
0h don't vote for me I  Who cares? Don't vote at all!
That little bitch made a fool of us I want her out of the election. Getting everybody all riled up like that.  She's finished, you hear me? Washed up.
Walt, we can't throw her out of the election just because we don't like her speech.  That's not what student government's about.
 Yeah... whatever.  All I know is she's a troublemaker.  She's on my list.
All we need to do is send a message, so maybe we should just suspend her.
Right.  That's it.  She's suspended for a week!
I think that's a little strong Walt. Ron?
We don't want to make a martyr out of her.  Three days sounds right to me.
Okay.  Three days.  Take care of it.
Being suspended is like getting a paid vacation.  Too bad it was only three days
Here you go.
Hey -- I said lights I
What do you want?
Oh.  Hi, Tammy.  I was just, you know, I went to all your teachers and got your assignments.
I just thought, well, last time you got suspended you fell so behind and -
Okay, Paul.  Thanks.  Thanks a lot.
Now could you leave me alone?
Yeah.  Oh, one more thing. Tammy. You know, all this election stuff. 'Cause, you know, everyone is saying it's so weird that you're running against me, and, well, it is kind of weird, and you haven't really told me why you're doing it and didn't tell me in advance or anything.  But that's okay, you know.  l respect your privacy.  I just want you to know that no matter who wins, if it's you or me, there's no hard feelings. We're still brother and sister.  Okay? Cause... and I hope you feel the same.
Sure, Paul.  No hard feelings.
Okay.  Great.  I feel good.
Oh.  Oh.  Yeah.  Right.  One other thing.  Since you know Lisa so well, could you give me some advice?  I want to get her something for helping me with the election.  You know, something really special -- like flowers or candy or flowers and candy.  Or is that too typical?  I mean, can you think of something? Something really special? You know, something she'd really like?
What happened at the speeches was an unconscienceable travesty. That little bitch Tammy Metzier wanted to make a fool out of me. Well, it wasn't going to work. People do care who wins. Things do matter.
Eric, the "r" is supposed to be green, not blue.
Oh. Okay.
So, Tracy, I was wondering if after we finish with these you'd like to go to a movie or something.
That's okay.  I'm too busy.
People are so ungrateful.  If all those students who cheered for Tammy Metzier only knew how hard I worked for Millard. Like all the late nights I spent at the yearbook office just to give them their memories.
One of my duties was to clean up the group photos.  It was a cinch with our new software.
 Let's see... "save" is Command "S." Okay.
I didn't do this.  I didn't do it.
There's your culprit
Shall we give it a name?
 Dave.
Did you know Dave's a bed wetter?
No, I... uh, didn't know that
All his life.  He's tried everything.
 Still clear?
Yep.
We'll let it run awhile
This one's clean.
sets the towel on the sink.  It's a little awkward as they look into each other's eyes, standing so near.
I guess you'd better get to work huh? You're going to be late.
Thank you, Jim.
Hey Yeah?
Take me to that motel.  Like you wanted.
Right now?
Easy, tiger.  Come by after school. I'll leave Darryl with the sitter.
Three twenty-five.
Three twenty-five.
What had blossomed between Sherry and me was too real, too powerful to deny. For the first time in years, I felt free and alive!
So as you can imagine, my thoughts weren't on the election that Monday morning.
My thoughts were only on Sherry, on how perfect she felt inside. There was a special poem I wanted to read to her later, at the motel, as she lay next to me.
Close, close the lovers keep. They stay together in their sleep. Close as two pages in a book That read each other in the dark..
Mr. McAllister to the Principal's Office.  Mr. McAllister to the Principal's office.
It's not fair.  It's not fair
I just don't think anybody would do something like that on purpose.  It must have been some kind of mistake. Like a maintenance thing.
Jim, where the hell have you been?
Nowhere.  I don't have class until second period.
Even tried you at home.  We've got a situation here.
If Paul loses tomorrow, it's not fair. There has to be another election,  with posters.
What's the problem?
Didn't you see?
Somebody tore down their posters.
Those posters cost a lot of money we don't have I  There's no time to make any more posters, there's no --
We'll get to the bottom of it.
 We still have some extra ones, don't we?  Maybe we can just --
It was Tammy I  That's who it was.
Oh, no, hey.  Like I said. Tammy wouldn't... she...
Well, that speech she gave -- it was pretty, you know, pretty out there.  But we'll get to the bottom of it.  Don't you worry. Mr. McAllister is going to see to that.  Right, Jim?
 Oh yeah, you bet.
She should be expelled.  Or worse!
You two just go back and focus on your studies.  Mr. McAllister's going to handle this.
Tracy?
When I arrived at school that morning, I was shocked to find that one of my key banners had been removed by vandals. I noticed that a few of my rival's posters had also been tampered with. Of course, I was outraged, but one day before the election is not the time to lose your head over a couple of posters. When you're in the public eye, attacks like that just come with the territory.
is inside.
Tracy. Come on in. And shut the door behind you.
I guess you know why you're here
If it's about the posters, I think it's so awful. It's a travesty.
A travesty.  Huh.  That's interesting, because I think you did it.
Wait - are you accusing me? You're not serious.  I can't... Mr. McAllister, we have worked together on SGA for three solid years and... I mean, I can't believe it. I'm... I'm shocked!
Mr. M., I am running on my qualifications.  I would never need to resort to, you know, to vandalism like a, you know... Plus, my own best banner was torn down.  Did I do that too?
Were you or were you not working in the Watchdog office over the weekend?
I was.  So?  Mr. Pecharda let me in. As you know, with all my responsibilities I often come in on the weekend and have permission to do so. But I left very early, around 6:30.
6:30.  How do you know what time the posters were torn down?
I don't.  I just know they were there when I left.  I'm giving you helpful information is all.  You know, instead of wasting time interrogating me, we should be out there trying to find out who did this.
Okay, Tracy, so who do you think did it?  Whom should we "interrogate?"
well, I don't know.  It could have been anybody.  There are a lot of, you know, subversive elements around Millard.  You know, like Rick Thieson and Kevin Speck and those burn-outs.  Or Doug Schenken - what about him?  Or what about Tammy Metzier?  Her whole thing is being anti- this and anti-that.
You're a very intelligent girl, Tracy. You have many admirable qualities.  But someday maybe you'll learn that being smart and always being on top and doing whatever you need to do to get ahead, and yes, stepping on people to get there, well, there's a lot more to life than that.  And in the end, you're only cheating yourself.
Why are you lecturing me?
This isn't the time or the place to get into it, but there is, for just one example, a certain former colleague of mine, who made a very big mistake, a life mistake.  I think the lesson there is that, old and young, we ail make mistakes, and we have to learn that our actions, all of them, can carry serious consequences.  You're very young, Tracy underage, in fact -- but maybe one day you'll understand.
I don't know what you're referring to, but I do know that if certain older and wiser people hadn't acted like such little babies and gotten all mushy, everything would be okay.
I agree.  But I also think certain young and naive people need to thank their lucky stars and be very, very grateful the whole school didn't find out about certain indiscretions which could have ruined their reputations, and chances to win certain elections.
And I think certain older persons like you and your "colleague" shouldn't be leaching after their students, especially when some of them can't even get their own wives pregnant.  And they certainly shouldn't be running around making slanderous accusations. Especially when certain young, naive people's mothers are para-legal secretaries at the city's biggest law firm and have won many successful lawsuits. And if you want to keep questioning me like this, I won't continue without my attorney present.
Okay, Tracy.  Have it your way.
You wanted to see me, Mr. M.?
Just wait outside. Tammy.
Okay.  But is this about the posters?
Possibly.  Please just wait outside.
Okay.  Because I know who did it.  So.. I'll just be outside.
Tracy, don't go away.  Come in, Tammy.
to hear.
This ought to be good
So... what do you have to tell me?
Well, this is hard for me, but I think it's important to be honest. Don't you?
 What is it. Tammy?
I'm the one.  I did it.  I tore down Paul's posters.
Looks at her skeptically  doesn't say a word.
I did it.
And when did you do it?
This weekend.
Exactly when?
I don't know. Yesterday.  Sunday.
And how did you get in the school?
Door was open.
Which door?
I don't know. All I know is I did it I
I don't believe you.
I have proof.
You don't know what it's like to grow up in the shadow of an older brother like Paul.  it's always Paul, Paul, Paul, Paul.  Never Tammy.  I'm only Paul's little sister.  You must be
Final  I don't know what your problem is, but if that's the way you want it, that's the way it'll be.  I don't have time.  You're out of the election, and I'm turning you over to Dr. Hendricks.
Tracy?
Yes?
Looks like today's your lucky day
What do you mean?
You're off the hook. Tammy here has confessed.
I told you!  I told you!  You're going to pay for my banner!
That's enough, Tracy.  Quit while you're ahead, okay?  I'll handle this.  Could you ask Walt to come in?
The rest of the day was unbearable.  I kept smelling Sherry on my clothes and on my fingers and I just couldn't wait to get out of there.
I wanted everything to be perfect that afternoon, so I decided to give myself a little time to prepare during eighth period.
Pop quiz, everybody
No whining.  If you've done your reading, this is an easy one.
I'd have exactly forty-eight minutes to make all the arrangements.
If you finish early, just sit quietly and check your work.  I'll be right back.
Okay, everybody, pass them forward. Stephanie, put down your pen.
I'll see you all on Wednesday. And don't forget to vote tomorrow.
Sherry I
Sherry I It's Jim!
Sherry
Oww! Fuck! Jesus fuck!
By any chance, has a woman shown up in the last half-hour or so?  Maybe she was looking for me.
Nobody's come in here looking for anybody.  Just you.
Are you sure?
 You okay?
Sherry, it's me.  Are you there? Pick up.  Okay, it's 4:32.  I came by at 3:25 like we said and waited, but you weren't there.  Anyway, I hope you're okay -- I'm worried about you. So now I'm just at the...  at the place we talked about. Suite 219.  So I'm here.  Everything's all set.  You can just come over.  Can't wait. Okay.  Bye.
I don't get it.  What you have against your mother and me, against your brother Paul, is completely beyond me.  And your mother is extremely upset, she's at the end of her rope.  Your behavior gets crazier and crazier and wilder and wilder, and who knows what the hell else you're doing out there that we don't even know about?
Dad, I
 Don't you smartass me!  Don't you dare smartass me!  You just shut your mouth I  Now your mother and I have had a long talk with Halt Hendricks  --- we just got off the phone with him at home. You know, he doesn't want you back at Millard.  He's fed up with you.  Fed up!  And I don't blame him!
Dick... Dick,..
What?
 Tammy,  now we've come to a decision. He just think it would be best --
You're going to Catholic school next year.  You're going to Sacred Heart. Maybe they'll straighten you out!
 Okay
As I walked out of my home that evening, unsure if I'd ever return, my entire life in question, I somehow discovered within myself a place of perfect peace.   Oddly, in my solitude I felt more than ever a sense of communion with every human being - past, present and future.  Because no matter what we tell ourselves, no matter what illusions of friendship and family we create, each of us is always and forever profoundly alone.
Dear Lord Jesus, I do not often speak with You and ask for things, but now I really must insist that You help me win the election tomorrow, because I deserve it and Paul Metzier doesn't, as You well know.  l realize that it was Your divine hand that disqualified Tammy, and now I'm asking that You go that one last mile and make sure to put me in office where I belong, so that I may carry out Your will on Earth as it is in Heaven. If elected I promise that I will pray more often.  Okay?  Amen.
Dear God, I know I don't believe in you, but since I'll be starting Catholic school soon, I thought I should practice.  Let's see... what do I want? I want people to be nicer to each other. I want Lisa to realize what a bitch she has been and feel really bad and apologize for how she hurt me and know how much I still love her.  In spite of everything, I still want Paul to win the election tomorrow, not that cunt Tracy. I also want a really expensive pair of leather pants... and someday I want to be really good friends with Madonna. Love, Tammy
Dear God, thank You for all Your blessings.  You have given me so many things, like good health, nice parents, a nice truck, and what I've been told is a large penis, and I'm very grateful. But I sure am worried about Tammy.  In my heart I still can't believe she tore down my posters, but sometimes she does get so weird and angry.  Please help her be a happier person, because she's so smart and sensitive, and I love her. Also, I'm nervous about the election tomorrow, and I guess I want to win and all, but I know that's totally up to You.  You'll decide who the best person is, and I'll accept it.  And forgive my sins, whatever they may be.  Amen.
Sherry never came home that night.  I know, because I spent the entire night in her driveway.
Mom and I got up at five AM, and together we custom-iced three hundred and fifty cupcakes.
Mom?
Hmmm?
I think I'm going to lose today
What are you talking about? This time tomorrow, you'll be president
You really think so?
Tracy Flick's a winner.
I had no choice but to go home. I needed to shower, get fresh clothes, explain what I could to Diane.  But what was I going to say?  That our marriage had become a charade?  That making love with Sherry had given me a vision of a better life?
Then again, maybe I could slip in and out without waking her up.
 Good morning, Mr. M.
 Looks like you could use a cupcake!
 What's wrong with your eye?  Are you OK?
Cupcakes.  Jesus Christ.  Cupcakes? My life was crumbling, and I was expected to care about these ungrateful kids and their pathetic little dreams.  As if my only purpose in life were to serve them.
 Mr. McAllister.  Mr. McAllister. Somebody tore down my posters. It's not fair.  It's not fair. Can I have an A? Can I have a recommendation?  Can I? Can I?
Well, fuck them.  Didn't I have my own life?  Didn't I have my own dreams?
Cupcakes
Hey, Jim. Big day today
 Oh, yeah. Big day.
Attention, everyone.  We have an important announcement from our principal. Dr. Hendricks.
Good morning, students.  It, uh, behooves me to inform you of an important change in today's elections. Effective this morning...
. .. sophomore Tammy Metzier has been... Metzier has been determined ineligible - I repeat: ineligible -- for SGA president.  You may not vote for Tammy Metzier.  All other candidates are eligible.  Now please pay attention to a very important, uh, audio-visual presentation. (irritated, thinking he's off) Linda, who typed this thing?  I said I need all caps....
Hello, students,  I'm Clark Naylor of Joslyn's Educational Resources.  It's election day, and how you vote will make a big difference in the activities, events, and perhaps even the policies of your school.  Over the past few days or weeks, you've heard candidates for the various offices make their speeches and tell you where they stand.  You've probably seen their posters.  Maybe you've even had a chance to speak with them personally.
Well, today marks the end of campaigning, and now the spotlight turns to you. Voting is your privilege and your responsibility. Remember, no one needs to know for whom you've voted. That's between you. . . and you.
Now I'd like to introduce you to Tony. Tony's going to show you how to cast your vote.  Are you ready, Tony?
I think s0
Good.  Let's get started
Hi.  You've reached the Novotnys. We're not around, but we'll call you back real soon.  Have a nice day.
Are you there?  Sherry, are you there? It's Jim.  Why did you do that?  I trusted you. Completely.  You've ruined my life. Do you know that?  Do you realize that? Huh?  Do you?  You've ruined Diane's life.  You ruined my life.  is that what you wanted?  I'm sorry.  It's just... I'm going nuts here.  Okay, all right, so... Really, I'm sorry.  I just think we should talk, okay?  I love you.
If only my own life could be corrected so easily, with nice fat black lines drawn neatly through my sins.
And Sacred Heart is such a good school. Excellent school. The public schools are going downhill, as far as I'm concerned.
Well, we've had good luck at Millard, but for this one it's time for a change.
So what do you think?  Sacred Heart has the prettiest.  They have that nice hint of purple.
 I hate it.
You're just going to have to get used to it.
Please, morn.  Please don't make me go to Sacred Heart.  I beg you.
 We'll take two.
When the time came to cast our votes, I stood in line just like everyone else.
Hi, Tracy
Tracy Enid Flick.
I know.
Phil you ready?
Ready.
Just a second.  My flash.
Come on, Tracy.
 Just wait.
Thanks, Phil.
Way to go, Tracy!  Isn't this exciting?
 Yeah.
Hell, good luck!
 Good luck to you too, Paul.
Thanks!
It's so weird.  DO people always just vote for themselves?  'Cause looking at my own name on the ballot, I just... I don't know, I just felt like it's not right to vote for yourself.
Okay, Mr. M.
What?  Right.  So let's start counting.
Well, I thought that... well, the way it always works is that SGA president does a count, then the SGA advisor, you know, for the two independent counts.
Fine.  So do your count.  Start with president, and I'll be right back.
You have the key, Mr. McAllister.
Right.  I know.
Are you okay, Mr. M.?
What happened to your eye?
I'm fine.  It's just a bee sting, a simple little everyday bee sting. Some people, they get stung, it's no big deal.  Me, I swell up.  Okay?
I just want to get this over with, so we can have the assembly and go home. We don't have much time until eighth period.  I have other things going on, too, you know.
Okay.  Yeah.  We know
All right.  I'll be back
 Hi.  You've reached the Novotnys. We're not around, but we'll call you back real soon.  Have a nice day.
 What do you want, Jim?
You're there.
Yeah.  I'm here.
Sherry... I love you.
 Don't say that.  You know it's not true.
It's the only true thing I know anymore.
We made a mistake.  Let's not make it worse.
A mistake?  That was no mistake.
I was lonely.  You took advantage
Me?  I took advantage of you?  You hugged me!  You kissed me!  You're the one who --
Hey, Mr. M. Big day, huh?
 What d'you got?
I'm not supposed to tell. Not until you've counted too. We're each supposed to make an independent count.
You're kidding, right?
I thought those were the rules, Mr. McAllister. If they've changed in any way --
Larry, we're not electing the fucking Pope here. Just tell me who won.
It's a squeaker, Mr. M. I've got Tracy by a vote. Just one vote.
Mr. M.?
Huh.  Okay.  Well, I guess I'd better do my count.
Sputnik.
Right.  And what year was that?
1958?
Almost.  1957.  So the point here is when we found out about Sputnik, we got really scared.  It seemed like no matter what we had and kept secret, they could develop it too.  A-bombs, h-bombs, rocket ships.  And this time we were behind them.  So -- February 1961, Kennedy tells Congress and the American people he wants to go to the moon.  May 1961, the Apollo program is announced...
You know that moment when they announce the winner of a beauty pageant?  When Miss Texas or whoever suddenly realizes she's Miss America, and all she can do is scream and weep and hug the losers? I had my moment in the hallway that Tuesday afternoon with no one to hug but myself.
I was at the end of my count when it happened.  I'd come up with exactly the same numbers as Larry:  Tracy had won the election by a single vote, 256 to 257.  I was about to announce my tally when...
The sight of Tracy at that moment affected me in a way I can't fully explain.  Part of it was that she was spying, but mostly it was her face. Looking at her, you might think she was a sweet, innocent teenage girl. But she wasn't sweet.  And she wasn't innocent. She was selfish and cynical and ambitious and thought nothing of destroying the lives of others to get to the top. who knew how high she would climb in life, how many people would suffer because of her? I had to stop her now.
Larry?
 Yeah?
I think we've got a problem.
253... 254... 255. I get the same as you Jim. Looks like Paul's our president.
No way I It doesn't make sense.
Sorry. My figures work out exactly the same as Jim's. 256 for Paul, 255 for Tracy.
And 290 "disregards," right?
If you say so.
Mostly Tammy fans
See, it doesn't add up. There are only 801 ballots but 803 people voted. Two votes are missing. Check the register.
He's right. Two people must have pocketed their ballots. Usually it's more.
But, they were there I counted 803 votes.
It happens, Larry. People make mistakes.
I didn't make a mistake. Every vote was there when you sac down
Whoa! Easy, Fouch. I don't like where you're going.
I'm telling you. Dr. Hendricks, every vote was accounted for.
 Larry? We've got twenty-five minutes until the assembly, and we still have to do counts for VP, Treasurer and Secretary. Mr. Hendricks and I have both verified the numbers, and unless you can come up with the ballots you claim are missing -
But, Mr. M. -
Fouch, that's enough! End of story.
Paul, I just want you to know that no matter how this turns out, you've run a wonderful campaign. It's been fun competing with you.
Yeah, you too, Tracy.  I'm just glad it's over.
Yeah.
You know, I don't understand why everybody bad-mouthed Tracy all the time.  She was always super- nice to me.
If we could get started.  People! Once the winners are announced, we can all go home, okay?
Some contests are so well fought that is seems unfair for someone to win and someone to lose.  I think that's the case with all the candidates you see before you today.  All of them are highly qualified and embody the, uh, the integrity we expect from our school leadership.
Act surprised. Walk slowly to the podium.  Be modest.  Thank them for this incredible honor.
That said, the whole point of an election is to choose winners, and that you have done.  We'll begin with president.
Let me add that this was an extraordinarily close race. It's my pleasure to announce the next president of Millard High School.
Paul Metzier!
Geez, you guys, thanks a lot.  I mean, wow, thanks.  I promise to do my best and really do a good job and be a good president.  And I want to thank Lisa Flanagan for being a super campaign manager. And I just want to say that I think Tracy would have made a great president too and that she really deserves a big hand.
And now, for vice-president.
Could I get a...?
Wow! Mr. McAllister! This is so wild. We came to celebrate my victory, and I can't believe it. Here, these are my parents.
 Hi. Dick Metzier. My wife --
This is great.
 JIM McAllister.
 JO Metzier. You know, Paul just thinks the world of you. Oh, if you could just hear him...
Yeah, say, apparently you've really come behind him, really helped him out there with the student council thing and all.
I never would have ran if it wasn't for Mr. M.
Paul doesn't need any of my help. He's going places.  You should be very proud.
We are
Having a problem with your eye there?
Dick.
Just a bee sting.
You ought to get that looked at. Shot of cortisone or something.
Thanks, I'll be fine.
Anyway, we're awful sorry about what went on with our other one, you know, our Tammy.
We were mortified...
Oh, she's not a bad girl.  She'll come around.
... but we've had some good talks, and I think we're sorting things out.  We're starting her at Sacred Heart in the fall.
Good school.
Say, you're all alone,  why don't you join us?
Yeah!
Oh, no.  No.  I'm just finishing up here, and I've got to get home.
 Why don't you guys go sit down, okay? I'll catch up in a minute? I want to talk to Mr. M. about some important stuff.
All right.  Well, sure nice to meet you.
So nice
You bet.
So, Mr. M,  I was starting to think about ideas for next year. I was thinking it would be cool to have, like a carnival.  With rides.  And, you know, it could be for, like. Muscular Dystrophy.
And on Halloween we could have a haunted house.  But a really good haunted house, not like those cheesy bad ones.  You know, more like the radio station ones.  This one would be really scary.  And for Homecoming -- well, you know how last year's theme was -
Paul... Paul.... We'll have plenty of time to get into all this later.  A whole year, in fact. Right now I just need to finish my pie and get home.
Oh, okay.  Yeah, sorry.
Just one more thing.  So, Mr. M., uh, do you think Tracy's going to be okay? I saw her face after the assembly, and I think she's taking it pretty hard.
Don't worry about Tracy.  She'll be fine.
One vote... one vote
Why don't you take a couple of my pills, darling? You'll feel better.
Don ' t worry. .. don ' t worry. . . sshhhhh... that's it, baby... that's it, darling. Everything's going to be fine.
Maybe you needed more posters, honey. Or if you'd taken my suggestions about your speech. I don't know. We'll figure it out.
Diane, I...
I don't know how Diane and I made it through that night, but we did.  Our marriage had gone right to the brink, but in the end I guess it was saved by one simple fact: we truly loved each other.  So we made a commitment to begin the painful process of piecing our lives back together.  The worst was over; the mistakes of the past were behind us.
The next day held the promise of a new beginning. After all, what harm had really been done? No one was dead.
Hi, Linda.
Life would go on, and I would certainly be a stronger and wiser person from the experience.
Uh, Jim?
Hmm?
Walt needs to see you.
Oh.  Okay.
You rang?
Mr. McAllister, I hope you can help us clear something up.
Look at his face!  He knows he's been caught. Look at his face!  Your ass is grass, Mister!
You said I was a liar   You're the liar, you're the --
Larry, you just take it easy
Yo --
pierdo.
Tu
pierdes.
El/ella -
pierde.
Senor presidente?
Quieren verte en la oficina.
Huh?
Senor presidente. Yo soy senor presidente... El grande presidente...
I don't know why, but finding out there was a mistake and I hadn't won the election after all didn't bother me that much. Winning had seemed kind of unreal anyway. I guess I should have voted for myself. Oh, well.
 Take a seat, son. We've got something hard to tell you.
Is Tammy okay?
She's okay. It's about the election.
After Paul got the bad news, Walt asked for a few minutes alone with me. It was very simple, really. I offered my resignation, and he accepted. Very quietly, it was all over for JIM McAllister at Millard High - twelve years of hard work down the drain.
Walt will be speaking with you about this, but I need you to find someone to take over my classes. The lesson plans for the rest of the year are in my top right drawer.
Okay, Jim. I understand.
Thanks. Well. I'm going home now.
I don't remember driving home, or much of anything that happened in the next few days.
There were news stories in the paper and on television, former students calling with their support, endless hours of doing nothing, thinking nothing.
Diane stood by me through the entire humiliating ordeal, in a way, it sort of evened things out between us.
Soon school was over, and summer stretched out in front of me as it always had. Funny how the rhythm of the school year remains ingrained in you for life. in mid-June we found out Diane was pregnant.
Senior year was great I Sure, I didn't get to play ball or be president, but I got elected homecoming king and prom king anyway. I got into Nebraska like I wanted and early-rushed Phi Delts. At the end of the year me and my buddies threw a hitching Mexican party down at the cement plant. Shit, that was a good party. That was a good party!
The only really bad thing about senior year was Lisa. Right before Christmas she dumped me. One minute she's totally in love with me and then boom she's going out with my football buddy Randy.
Sometimes I wonder what would've happened if I'd actually won the election.  Maybe my whole life would be different.  Like I might never have gone to Yosemite with Greg and Travis.
Or maybe I'd be dead.
Catholic school was great!
I mean, the teachers kind of sucked, and they were supposedly way more strict, but you could get away with murder.
The best thing about Sacred Heart was meeting Jennifer.
All those feelings I had for Lisa were just preparing me for the real thing. Jennifer and I are soul mates, and we're never, ever, ever going to be apart.
Senior year was very productive for me and full of personal achievement.
Order.  Order.  Order I  Can we vote on this?  Those in favor.
On top of a very successful student council year, I got into Cornell like I wanted, with scholarships, and I was in the top 7th percentile of my graduating class.
But sometimes I got lonely, and I'd think about Dave.  I missed our talks. Maybe it could have worked out between us.  I don't know.
I wonder what he's doing now. Maybe he finally finished his novel
When the yearbooks came out, I was on almost every page.
Paul, will you sign my yearbook?
Sure, Tracy.
Can I sign yours too?
Oh, yeah, sure.  Hey Nolan, give my book to Tracy when you're done*
I thought very carefully about what to write.  Because despite everything that had happened with the election, I really wished him well.  I even signed it...
Thanks, Tracy.
Hey, Tracy I..
Yes, Paul?
Have a great summer.  And good luck at college.
 Thanks.  You too.  It was great working with you.
After graduation, I don't know.  ; somehow felt empty inside.  I guess high school just seemed so meaningless now and I couldn't wait to get out of Omaha. Next year I was going to make all new friends.  Smarter, more ambitious friends.  It was time to move on. There was nothing left for roe here.  I just had one more thing to take care of.
After two months of sitting on my ass and two months helping out at my brother-in-law's travel agency...
...I landed a position at a Saturn dealership.
I never thought I'd end up selling cars, but it's not so bad. I like the Saturn philosophy -- it really is a different kind of company.
I'm just relieved to have a steady income now that there are three of us.
Actually, it wasn't so difficult making the transition from teaching to selling. It's like I tell my customers: my role is just to educate people so they can make informed decisions.
When I send someone home with a new unit, I feel a genuine sense of pride.
So that's about it.  Maybe I'll get back to teaching someday, but for the time being, I guess I'm pretty happy where I'm at.
 Hey, Professor.  There's a young gal out here asking for you.
Oh
 She's a real hot tamale.
Hello, Mr. M.
Hello, Tracy.
So what brings you here?
I'm looking at new cars.
Oh.  New cars.  I see.  Well, you came to the right place
My mother's buying me a new car for college.
Huh.  Right.  College.  Wow.  Where are you going?  Where 'd you get into?
Well, I got in everywhere I applied, but Cornell is my first choice.
Good for you.  Good for you
So, are you looking for something sporty or more practical?
Sporty.
Where to?
Anywhere you want.  Just so long as we're not gone more than a half-hour.
Handles pretty good, don't you think?
Yeah.
Plenty of pep, too.
Uh-huh.
And this model comes with ABS and dual air bags standard.
That sounds good.
So Tracy?
Yes?
Why are you doing this?
Doing what?
Coming to see me.  Are you trying to. . humiliate me?
Nooo.  I just thought...  l mean, I am looking for a new car.  But I just thought, well, I'm going away soon, and you'll be stuck here and, I don't know, I just think maybe if things had been different we might have been, well, friends. Real friends.  And then things would be different.  Don't you think?
Well, I... I... that's very nice of you.
 I've got an idea.
What's this?
My house.
I don't understand.  What's the deal?
I want you to do something for me.
Swallows, unsure what heaven or hell awaits him.
 I just have to get something. I'll be right back.
Oh, is this...? (thumbing through it) God. First one of these I haven't been in for a long time.
Would you sign it for me?
What a surprise.
Take as much room as you want
I'm scared, Mr. M. I kind of don't feel ready for college.
You'll be fine.
I hope so
You will.
