Fuck.
Shit.
God damn it.
Morning, Mr. Masry.  How you doing today?
Don't ask that on Mondays, Rosalind.
Tony Marvin.
Oh, Jesus.  Who's responsible for his pain and suffering this time?
His dry cleaners.  You want him?
What do you think?  What's this?
Tequila.  From your drug dealer friend.
Carlos isn't a friend; he's a client.
He's a low-life.  Speaking of which, that's your nine o'clock in there.
Whoa.  Remind me.
Erin Brockovich.  Car accident.  Not her fault, she says.  And she looks like such an honest girl, don't you think?
You shouldn't judge, Brenda.
Right.  Lap-dancers are people too.
I can't find him, Tony.  We'll have to call you back.
Erin -- hi.  Sorry you had to wait.  Here, sit down, sit down.
Thanks a lot.  I tell you, I never thought just standing would take it out of me, but ever since that shithead hit me, it feels like my whole body's put together wrong.
Jesus, you poor thing.  Well, listen, you came to the right place. Whoever did this to you made one hell of a mistake, and you and me, we're gonna make him pay for it.
Why don't you tell me what happened?
I was pulling out real slow, and out of nowhere, his Jaguar comes racing around the corner like a bat outta hell ...
They took some bone from my hip and put it in my neck.  I didn't have insurance, so I'm about seventeen thousand in debt right now.
... couldn't take painkillers cause they made me too groggy to take care of my kids.
... Matthew's six, Katie's four, and Beth's just nine months.
... just wanna be a good mom, a nice person, a decent citizen.  Just wanna take good care of my kids.  You know?
 Yeah.  I know.
Seventeen thousand in debt.  Whew.  Is your ex-husband helping out?
Which one?
 There's more than one?
Yeah.  There's two.  Why?
 ... not like a career, cause I had my babies. But I woulda worked, for sure, if I didn't have this neck thing.
 Right.  No doubt.
So.  You must've been feeling pretty desperate that afternoon.
 What's your point?
Broke, three kids, no job.  A doctor in a Jaguar must've looked like a pretty good meal ticket.
What?  Hey -- he hit me.
So you say.
He came tearing around the corner, out of control --
An ER doctor who spends his days saving lives was the one out of control --
 That asshole smashed in my fucking neck!
Open and shut?  Open and fucking shut?
If you hadn't used profanity --
Oh, please, it was long over by then.  God damn, he made me look like some cheap --
I told you the questions might get a little personal --
Bullshit.  You told me I'd get half a million dollars.  You told me I'd be set.
Okay -- let's try and settle down here.
Settle down?  I got 74 bucks to my name, Mr. Masry!  I can't afford to settle down!
I'm sorry, Erin.
Yeah?  Well, fuck you.  Sorry doesn't feed my kids.
Hi, Erin!  You're back so soon.  How was it?
Hi, sweetie.  Were you a good girl?  Where are Matt and Katie?
Outside with the sprinkler.  So it's good?
It'll be fine, yeah.
Ai, bueno.  Because I didn't want to tell you before, with your worries --
What?
My daughter, she's bought a big house with a room for me.  I'm going to move in with her.
You're moving away?  When?
Next week.
 Wow, that's soon --
I know.  But it's good for me.  Now I can help my daughter take care of my grandkids. And it's good for you, too.  Now you have money, you can find a good babysitter, huh? Not the old lady next door.
Ugh.
I don't like this part, it's all crusty.
I like the crust.
Put your napkins in your laps and eat up.
How come you're not eating?
Mamma's gonna eat later.
Don't go getting sick on me, baby.  Okay?
It's gonna be okay, sweetheart.  I promise.
Hi, remember me?  I was in yesterday.  Bought a whole mess of stuff?  Round about five?
Honey, it's a zoo here at five.  I'm lucky if I even see a face, much less remember it.
Oh, shoot, yeah, I guess that'd be tough. Well, listen, I meant to buy my baby here some medicine, and by the time I got home, I realized I'd bought the adult stuff by mistake.  And now, wouldn't you know, I can't find the receipt.  I was wondering -- could I maybe exchange it anyway ...
Just remember.  No matter what your Mamma does, lying and stealing is real bad.  I don't ever wanna hear you doing something like that ...
... Cause there's no excuse for it, you hear me?  No excuse at all.
Damn it!  Brenda!
Yeah?
What the hell is this doing here?
It's those files you asked for.
I didn't mean for you to leave them in the middle of the floor.  Jesus.  Look at me. What do I have this afternoon?
Nothing you can't show up for with a stain.
What's she doing here?
Who?
Hey -- Mario -- what's she doing here?
She works here.
Erin!  How's it going?
You never called me back.  I left messages.
You did?  Wow, sorry about that.  Listen, Mario's a little not so bright.  He seems to think that you said --
There's two things I can't stand, Mr. Masry. Being ignored, and being lied to.  You did both.
I never lied.  I may have miscalculated -- that happens sometimes, but --
You said things would be fine, and they're not.
I'm sorry about that.  Really.  But --
I don't need pity.  I need a paycheck.  And I've looked, but when you've spent the last six years raising babies, it's real hard to convince someone to give you a job that pays worth a damn.  So I figure, since you're the one who said I was gonna be okay, you should be the one to hire me.
I'd love to help, Erin, but I'm sorry, I have a full staff right now, so --
Bullshit.  If you had a full staff, you'd have time to return your damn phone calls.
Okay, look.  If you really want to apply for a job here, you can do it the way everyone else does.  Send in a rsum, make an --
I'm not everyone else, Mr. Masry.  I'm someone you made promises to that you didn't deliver on.  I trusted you.  With my kids' well-being.  Now, I'm smart, and I'm hard- working, and I'll do anything.  But if you think I'm leaving here without a job, you got another thing coming.
No benefits.
... what we do in here is keep track of all the case files.  That way, at any time, we can find out a case's status -- where it is in the office, stuff like that.  We file 'em all here, alphabetically --
Oh, hell.  I'm dyslexic.
That's a joke, right?
Just last week, he told my sister we weren't hiring.
What's your sister look like?
Mr. Masry?
Yeah?
I was wondering -- could you tell me who I'd talk to about maybe getting an advance on my paycheck?  Just -- for the weekend.
Jane's the office manager.  She handles payroll and petty cash.  But she leaves early on Fridays.
Oh.  Okay.  That's okay.
Oh, for Christ's sake ...
All I have is hundreds.
I don't wanna take your money, Mr. Masry.
Bullshit, you don't.
Mommy, can I get a flower?
Sweetheart, you can get a whole big bunch.
Hey!
HEY!
Well, hello to you, darlin'.
What the hell do you think you're doing, making all that Goddamn noise?
Just introducing myself to the neighbors.
Well, I'm the neighbors.  There, now we're introduced, so you can shut the fuck up.
Ooh, now, see, if I'da known there was a beautiful woman next door, I'da done this different.  Let's start over.  My name's George.  What's yours?
Just think of me as the person next door who likes it quiet, and we'll get along fine.
Now, don't be like that.  Tell you what. How about if I take you out on a date to apologize for my rudeness?
Come on.  Gimme your number, I'll call you up proper and ask you out and everything.
You want my number?
I do.
Which number do you want, George?
You got more than one?
Shit, yeah.  I got numbers coming out of my ears.  Like, for instance, ten.
Ten?
Sure.  That's one of my numbers.  It's how many months old my little girl is.
You got a little girl?
Yeah.  Sexy, huh?  And here's another: five. That's how old my other daughter is.  Seven is my son's age.  Two is how many times I been married and divorced.  You getting all this?  16 is the number of dollars in my bank account.  454-3943 is my phone number. And with all the other numbers I gave you, I'm guessing zero is the number of times you're gonna call it.
How the hell do you know your bank balance right off the top of your head like that? See, that impresses me.
Y'all got something you wanna discuss?
Damn it!  Brenda!  BRENDA!
How long's she been crying like that? ... Well, she's got that tooth coming in --
Give her a cold washcloth to suck on --  I gotta go -- there's a clean one in that bag -- I'll check back in a bit.  Sorry.  My kid --
Where's Anna?
Out to lunch with the girls.
Oh.  Huh.  Well, look, I got this file I need valued. Real estate thing.  A lady has some property next to a PG&E plant that PG&E wants to buy. I need to know what to ask for it.
Oh.  Okay.
You do know how to do that, don't you?
Yeah.  I got it.  No problem.
Good.
You're a girl.
Excuse me?
How come you're not at lunch with the girls? You're a girl.
I guess I'm not the right kind.
Anna?  With this real-estate valuing stuff - - could you remind me, cause I'm a little confused about how exactly we do that.
 Erin, you've been here three weeks.  If you don't know how to do your job by now, I am not about to do it for you.
Ugh.
Hey, neighbor, wanna beer?
No.
C'mon.  I bought 'em for you, to make up for that night.
Return 'em.  Maybe you'll get your money back.
Now, why're you giving me such a hard time? I'm just trying to be a good neighbor.
I had a good neighbor, George.  She was 60 and Mexican and she watched my kids for free.  Something tells me you're not gonna be able to measure up to that.
You need help with your kids?  I could probably do that.
I'm not gonna leave my kids with you.
Why not?
Cause I don't even know you.
Yeah, and whose fault is that?
What, you got so many friends in this world, you don't have use for one more?
What's that stand for?
That's for Harley Davidson.  The best damn motorcycle ever made.
And if I catch either of you anywhere near one, I'll knock you silly.  Go on to bed, now -- I'll come tuck you in in a minute.
Night.
Night.
Great kids.
Yeah.  I'm probably ruining them.
How?
I'm never here.  I gotta leave 'em with this weird sitter all afternoon who costs a fortune and smells like chicken fat.
I was serious before, you know.  If you need someone to keep an eye on them -- after school or something -- I don't have a job now, so I'm around in the afternoons.
Great.  Another deadbeat.
I'm not a deadbeat.  I work when I need to.
Yeah?  And what do you do the rest of the time, live off your trust fund?
I do construction, which pays real good. And I make it last by living cheap.
 I hope that's not supposed to impress me.
Are you this hard on everyone who tries to help you?
It's been a while.  Maybe I'm just out of practice.
Then lemme remind you, the polite thing is to say, thank you, that's a real nice offer, I don't mind taking you up on it.
Why in the hell would you want to watch my kids?
Cause I like kids.  I like hanging out with them.
Right.
I do.  I like how they keep it all simple, you know?  They don't get all complicated about life, like grown-ups do.  A bicycle and an ice cream cone -- boom, done, they're happy.
You're around every afternoon?
Yup.  Usually working on my bike.  No big deal.  If it doesn't work out, you can send 'em back to the chicken fat lady.
This isn't gonna get you laid, you know.
 Yeah, we'll just see about that, won't we?
It was in this real estate file I'm valuing. And -- see, I know they're the medical records from the people selling the house -- but it talks about things like lymphocytes and T8 suppressers.
I mean, it's not a problem or anything, but -- I'm just a little unclear on what those things are.  I thought maybe you'd know.
What do I look like, Erin?  A library?
Masry & Vititoe, can I help you?
Hi, Rosalind, this is Erin.  Brockovich. From the file room?  I was wondering if you could tell Mr. Masry that I'm following up on that real estate thing out of the office.
Dr. Paulsen?
Yes?
Hi, I'm Erin Brockovich.  I was just over in the library there, asking a mess of questions about -- I guess they call it epidemiology? -- and the fella there told me to find you, cause you know all about it.
 Is this a joke?  Did Baxter put you up to this?
Who's Baxter?
He did, didn't he?  Baxter!
Yeah?
Oh.  Oh.
No one put me up to anything.  I was just hoping I could ask you a couple questions.
 Of course!  Oh, gosh, of course --
Well, look, there isn't a ton of information here, but from what there is, I'd say that these two people here -- what are their names?  Shanna and Ashley?
Right, I guess those are the kids --
They've both got some immune system problem. Can't say what from, whether it's viral or genetic or what, but something's wrong.  And these guys -- Donna and Peter --
Their parents, I'm pretty sure.
Well, from what this stuff says, I'd say they both have some form of cancer.
Whoa, whoa!  Easy, easy, easy --
Hi!  You've reached the Irvings.  Leave a message and we'll get back to you just as soon as we can.  Bye-bye.
Hi.  Donna Irving?
Yes?
I'm Erin Brockovich, from Masry & Vititoe?
 You're a lawyer?
Hell, no.  I hate lawyers.  I just work for them.  You got a minute?
This is a real nice place you got here.
Well it oughta be, with all the work I put into it.
I added air conditioning, put in the pool, made all those pillows by hand ...
Yeah?  I should learn to do stuff like that. They make the place feel real homey.
Thank you.  I think so too.  That's why I'm being such a stickler on this house price thing.  I don't mean to be a pain in PG&E's backside, especially after all they've done for Hinkley, but I look around here and I think, if they want this place, they're gonna have to pay for it.  And I don't just mean pay for the house; I'd like them to pay me for the trouble of starting over.
Right.
Cause first you gotta move, then there's decorating, and if the windows aren't the same size, you know -- you're making all new curtains.  Honest to God, I don't know if I have the energy.  You know, I've been sick. Me and Peter both have.
Yeah, I'm real glad you brought that up.  I was going through your file here, and I ran into these medical records.  They kinda surprised me --
I know.  They're more than a bit unusual. See, two years ago, Pete got Hodgkin's disease.  That's a kind of cancer --
Yeah, I'm real sorry to hear that.
Thank you.  It's in remission now, thank the Lord, but you never know.  And then while that's going on, I end up having to have a hysterectomy.  Plus a whole mess of lumps removed from my breasts.  All benign so far, but still, no matter how positive you stay, an operation can still take it out of you.
I'll say.  Holy moley.
So the whole idea of selling the house -- don't get me wrong, I'd be glad to move to some better place, but if they aren't gonna pay us properly, I just don't see the point.
Yeah, I can see that.  I guess the only thing that confused me is - - not that your medical problems aren't important, but -- how come the files about them are in with all the real estate stuff?
Are you kidding?  With how our lives are, if I start subdividing files, I'll be sunk.  I just kept all PG&E correspondence in one place.
Right, but -- I'm sorry, I don't see why you were corresponding with PG&E about it in the first place.
Well, they paid for the doctor's visit.
They did?
You bet.  Paid for a check-up for the whole family.  And not like with insurance where you pay, then wait a year to be reimbursed, either.  They just took care of it.  Just like that.  We never even saw a bill.
Wow.  Why would they do that?
Cause of the chromium.
The what?
The chromium.  Well, that's what kicked this whole thing off.
PG&E came around a few years ago, told us they put chromium in our well by mistake. And since we shouldn't have to drink it if we don't want to, they gave us free spring water and offered to buy our house.
What's chromium?
It's a chemical they used over at that compressor station up the road there.
Well, hell, maybe that's why you all have been so sick --
I thought the same thing, right off the bat. That's why we went to see the doctor.  But hunh-uh.  Turns out one's got nothing to do with the other.
This is the info they gave us.  You'll see if you look through it, chromium's good for you.  When I saw what they charged for it at the health-food stores, I about fainted.
Seems like an awful big coincidence -- your water being messed with and you being so sick.
Not around here.  This is a rough part of the world.  Hard times, not a lot of money, not a lot of luck.  It's a challenge, staying healthy in a town like this.  Heck, even our dogs up and die.
What're you doing?
Better safe than sorry.
You want some coffee, George?
I'm gonna put a dead bolt on your front door, too.  This isn't exactly the safest neighborhood in the world, you know.
Thanks for reminding me.
I guess we get what we pay for, huh?
You think it could make you sick, living in a place like this?
What do you mean?
I was talking to this lady -- she and her husband both got cancer, and she thinks it's cause they live in a bad neighborhood.  You think that's possible?  That living in a bad neighborhood could give you cancer?
Man, I hope not.  You got enough damn problems.
Hi, y'all -- how you doing today?
Hangin' in, baby.  How about yourself?
I'm okay, I'm just fine.  I was wondering -- could I maybe ask you a couple questions?
... and when I realized our area's just as bad as Hinkley, I thought maybe my neighbors are all sick too.  So I went and asked.
 You did?
Uh-huh.  Spent the last few days knocking on doors.  And you know what?  They're not.  I mean, they got problems, but none of this cancer stuff.  And their pets are fine.  So I don't know -- I just can't shake the feeling that it wasn't no multivitamin they put in the water.
Well, if you're talking about contamination, you're getting out of my area of expertise. Let me give you the name of a toxicologist friend of mine over at USC.
I gotta say, Erin -- first time I saw you, I did not peg you as the kind to go off and conduct her own epidemiological study.
Don't go telling anyone.  It'll ruin my reputation.
What kind of chromium is it?
There's more than one kind?
Yes.  There's straight-up chromium -- does all kinds of good things for the body. There's chrom 3, which is fairly benign, and then there's chrom 6, hexavalent chromium, which, depending on the amounts, can be very harmful.
Harmful, like -- how?  What would you get?
With repeated exposure to toxic levels -- God, anything, really -- respiratory disease, liver failure, heart failure, reproductive failure, chronic headaches, bone or organ deterioration -- plus, of course, any type of cancer.
So that stuff -- it kills people.
Oh, yeah.  Definitely.  Highly toxic, highly carcinogenic.  Bad, bad stuff.
Well, how do I find out what kind of chromium is up in Hinkley?
Have you been to the water board?
Hunh-uh.  What's that?
Every county has one.  They keep records of anything water-related within their jurisdiction.  You should be able to find something there.
County water board.  All righty, thanks.
Good luck.  Oh -- I wouldn't advertise what you're looking for if I were you ...
... Incriminating records have a way of disappearing when people smell trouble.
Whew!  Goddamn, that's a heavy door.
Oh, hey -- lemme give you a hand there.
Thank you very much.  Aren't you a gentleman?  Mr. ...
Ross.
Ross.  Real pleased to meet you.  I'm Erin.
Erin.  Cool.  What can I do for you, Erin?
Well, believe it or not, I am on the prowl for some water records.
 You come to the right place.
 I guess I did.
You just tell me what you want to look at and I'll be glad to dig 'em out for you.
I wish I knew.  It's for my boss.  He's fighting his water bill, and he wants me to find all manner of bills from all kinds of places.  The easiest thing would probably be if I just squeezed back there with you and poked around myself.  Would that be okay?
Heck, yeah.  Come on back.  Just gonna need you to sign in here --
Pattee?  That your middle name?
Nope.  Maiden.
 You're married.
Not anymore.
Well.  Here goes nothing.
Our mom gives us sandwiches on Fridays.
That's a sandwich.
No, it's not!
Sure it is.  Here, I'll show you.
Most people think a sandwich's gotta have bread on the outside.  Not true.  Chicken is a perfectly good outside for a sandwich.
See?
"... On December 7, 1987, the discharger notified the regional board and the San Bernardino County Environmental Health Services of the discovery of 0.58 ppm of hexavalent chromium in an on-site ground water monitoring well ..."  ... hexavalent ...
Where's my stuff?
Where've you been?
What the fuck did you do with my stuff?
Don't use language with me --
Someone stole my stuff.
Nice to see you, Erin.  We've missed you.
I had photos of my kids, plus a mug --
-- toothbrush, toothpaste, and a pair of hose.  Here.
What's going on?
There may be jobs where you can disappear for days at a time, but this isn't one of them.  Here, if you don't do the work, you don't get to stay.
I've been working.  Shit, that's all I've been doing.  Ask Mr. Masry.  He knows.
You said to fire me?
Erin, you've been gone for a week.
I left a message.  I've been dealing with that real estate thing.  I was gonna write up a whole damn report and --
That's not how we work here.  You don't just leave a message and take off.
What am I supposed to do, check in every two seconds?
Yes.  It's called accountability.
I am not talking to you, bitch.
Excuse me?
Okay, enough --  Now, look, Erin -- this incident aside, I don't think this is the right place for you. So what I'm gonna do is make a few calls on your behalf.  Find you something else, okay?
Don't bother.
Come on, I'm trying to help here.
Bullshit.  You're trying to feel less guilty about firing someone with three kids to feed.  Fuck if I'll help you do that.
I don't suppose any one of you cunts could open the fucking door for me.
Here ya go, Miz Brockovich.
What are you doing here?
Fixing a leak under your sink.
I didn't ask you to do that.  Damn it, George, I don't ask you to do things like that.
Great.
I'm gonna clean it up.
Relax, Erin, I'll do it -- I'm not --
Ugh -- Jesus --
Yeah -- you had a whole family of those things hanging out back there.
Damn it --
Don't worry about it, I'll get it later.
Come here, you little motherfucker --
Hey, whoa -- relax --
GOD DAMN IT!
 ... God damn it.
What kind of person lives like this?  Huh? What kind of person lets her kids run around in a house crawling with bugs the size of housecats?
It's a simple thing.  Everybody gets them. All we gotta do is call an exterminator.
I can't call an exterminator.  I can't afford one.  God, I can't even afford my phone.  I got fired.
What?  But you been working so hard --
Doesn't matter.  Doesn't make one bit of difference.  Oh God, George, how'd this happen to me? How'd I end up so ... so nothing?
You're not nothing, Erin.
Well, I'm sure as hell not what I thought I was gonna be.  I was supposed to have one of those great lives, with everything all laid- out and perfect.  I mean, hell -- I was Miss Wichita, for God's sakes.  Did I tell you that?  You live next door to a real live beauty queen.  I still got the tiara.  I kept it cause I thought it meant something.  I thought it meant I was gonna do something great with my life.  I thought it proved I was gonna grow up to be someone.
You are someone.
No I'm not.  Look at me.  I'm not.
You're someone to me.  You're someone real special to me.
I'm no good, George.  I make people miserable.
Man.  Even your earlobes are beautiful.
Don't be too nice to me, okay?  It makes me nervous.
Brenda!  BRENDA!
Yeah, Ed Masry here ... She doesn't work here anymore.  Who's this?
Come on, baby.  Maybe that's Ed McMahon.
What are you doing here?
I got an interesting call this afternoon. It was from a Dr. Frankel.
Oh, yeah?
He wanted you to know the legal limit for hexavalent chromium, is .05 parts per million.  And that at the rate you mentioned, .58, it could be responsible for the cancers in that family you asked about. The Irvings.
Well, that was nice of him.  Isn't it funny how some people go out of their way to help people and others just give 'em the ax?
Look, I'm sorry.  You were gone.  I just assumed you were off having fun.
Now, why in the hell would you assume that?
I don't know.  Maybe cause you look like someone who has a lot of fun.
Boy, are you ever a shitty judge of people.
So what's the story on this thing?  This cancer stuff?
You wanna know, you gotta hire me back.  I got a lot of bills to pay.
Fine.
But, PG&E told her about the chromium?
They told her something, but it can't have been too specific, cause I talked to her, and she sure didn't think her water was bad.
So what made you think it was?
It doesn't take a genius to look at those medical records and think something's wrong.
What medical records?
The ones in the box of files.  The box of files?  The one from your office?
I didn't see any medical records in there.
Boy, you musta really fine-tooth-combed it then, huh?  And you fired me.  Jesus.
That document you found, the one that says it was the bad chromium -- you didn't happen to make a copy did you?
Course I did.
Lemme see it, will you?
I want a raise.  And benefits.  Including dental.
Look, Erin, this is not the way I do business, this extortion nonsense.
Okay.  A 5% raise, and --
Ten.  There's a lot of other places I could work.
A ten percent raise and benefits.  But that's it.  I'm drawing the line.
This is the only thing you found?
So far.  But that place is a pig sty.  I wouldn't be surprised if there's more.
Find out.
I hate this music.
There's no way a son of mine hates Funky Town.  It's impossible.
Well I hate it.
I hate it too.  I hate this trip.
Oh, come on, where's your sense of adventure?  We're going someplace you never been before.
I'm gonna hate it.
Me too.
You know what I'm realizing for the first time?  You kids are a couple of downers.  I mean, you are the real thing -- a couple of honest-to-God depresso-types.  Who in the heck raised you, anyway?  Some kind of moron?
Yeah.  A real moron.
Some kind of half-wit, no-good, big-haired, bimbo, I bet.
 Yeah.
Thank God we got you away from her, huh?
Stay out of the road.  I'll be right back.
I'm hungry.
We'll go eat in a minute.  Settle down.
You know what, Erin?  I got nothing but time here.  Why don't you let me do that for you, and you can get your kids some dinner.
Ross -- you are an absolute angel.
Fax these to this number, okay?
All of 'em?
All of them.
An on-site monitoring well?  That means --
It was right up on the PG&E property over there.
And you say this stuff, this hexavalent chromium -- it's poisonous?
Yeah.
Well -- then it's gotta be a different than what's in our water, cause ours is okay. The guys from PG&E told me.  They sat right in the kitchen and said it was fine.
I know.  But the toxicologist I been talking to?  He gave me a list of problems that can come from hexavalent chromium exposure. And everything you all have is on that list.
No.  Hunh-uh, see, that's not what the doctor said.  He said one's got absolutely nothing to do with the other.
Right, but -- didn't you say he was paid by PG&E?
ASHLEY!  SHANNA!
OUT OF THE POOL!  BOTH OF YOU, OUT OF THE POOL, RIGHT NOW!
How come?
CAUSE I SAID SO, THAT'S WHY, NOW GET OUT! OUT!  NOW!!!
What's she doing here?
He hired her back.  With a raise.
What??  Why?
Well, let's see.  It's not cause she's smart, and it's not cause she's professional.  That leaves ...
And dumb old me thought working hard and being loyal was the way to get ahead.
I'm telling you, the minute Brenda sent the fax -- I'm talking the second she pressed that send button -- PG&E claims department is on the phone to me, scheduling a meeting.
So you think we got 'em scared?
It sure as hell sounded like they were sitting up and taking notice.
David Baum from PG&E is at reception.
Nice to see you again, too, Brenda.
Not to question your judgment or anything, Mr. Masry, but -- that doesn't exactly look like sitting up and taking notice to me.
... in the interest of putting this whole thing to rest, PG&E is willing to offer the Irvings 250,000 dollars for their home.
250,000?
In terms of land value out in Hinkley, Mr. Masry, we feel it's a more than fair price.
What about in terms of medical expenses? 250,000 doesn't come close to what this family's gonna have to spend on doctors.
I understand they've had a bad run of luck, health-wise, and they have my sympathies. But that's not PG&E's fault.
You're kidding, right?  Look at these readings for Christ's sake. PG&E's own technicians documented toxic levels of hexavalent chromium in those test wells, on numerous occasions.
Everything the Irvings have had is a proven reaction to exposure to hexavalent chromium. They've had ...
-- breast cysts, uterine cancer, Hodgkin's disease, immune deficiencies, asthma, chronic nosebleeds.
A million things could have caused those problems.  Poor diet, bad genes, irresponsible lifestyle.  Our offer is final and more than fair.
Wait a minute -- I thought we were negotiating here.
250,000 is all I'm authorized to offer.
 Jesus Christ.  I will present your offer to my clients.  I doubt they'll accept it.
Mr. Masry, before you go off on some crusade, you might want to remember who it is you're dealing with here.  PG&E is a 28- billion dollar corporation.
 Thanks.  I'll keep it in mind.
At least they made an offer.
That wasn't an offer.  A million would've been an offer.  When they send the God damn mail clerk down to jerk me off, waste my time, it's a fuck you.
I don't get why they'd do that.
Because they can.  You heard that kid -- they have 28 billion dollars at their disposal.  They can afford to waste all the time in the world.
And you can't?
What, you think I'm made of money?
Hey, you know where I can get a cab?  My plane leaves Burbank in forty-five minutes.
Tell you what, why don't you go on over to reception, tell them I said Mario should take you to the airport.
Hey, excellent.  Thanks.
Mr. Masry, Mario gets lost going to the bathroom.  They'll be driving around the valley for hours.
 Yeah.  Isn't that a shame?
Well I'll be God damned.
You've been reading for hours.
I'm a slow reader, on account of the fact that I look at the word "dog" and see "god".
Hey, just so long as you see Him.
Excuse me, are you Erin Brockovich?
Yeah.  Who are you?
I'm Tom Brown.  This is my wife Mandy.  We used to live across the street from the Irvings.  PG&E bought our house last year.
It's called wry neck.  It's when they're born without any muscles in the neck.
Wow.  How many were born like this?
Twelve, maybe thirteen.
When Donna told us about you, and what you told her about the chromium, we figured that might have something to do with this, too.
It sure could, yeah.  Thanks a lot.
There's something else, too.
What?
Well.  Mandy here's had nine miscarriages.
Are you kidding?  My God --
I know.  It's an awful lot.
I'm surprised Donna didn't say anything.
She doesn't know.  No one does.  It's not something you want to talk about, you know?
I figured it musta been something I did, like when I smoked marijuana, maybe.  Or took birth control pills.  But then Donna told me you thought this chromium might be to blame for her problems, so I figured ...
Hey.  You guys still awake?
Come on, now.  No faking.  George told me he just shut out the light a few seconds ago.
Look, I know you're mad.  But the way this job is, things come up at the last minute, real important things, and I gotta deal with them.  Now I don't like me missing dinner any more than you do, but we're all gonna have to get used to it, cause the fact is, it's gonna happen sometimes.
It happens all the time.
That's not true; we had dinner together just last night.
You were reading the whole time.
I'm sorry, pumpkins.  I'll try a whole lot harder to be around, okay?  I promise.
If it's any consolation, I love you.
It's Sinatra's world, we just live in it.
Hello? ...  Hi, babys.  Baby's fine.  Yes, I did.  I did, too, you just didn't feel it.
You think I could leave without kissing my babys?  Okay, here you go.
Bye-bye ... bye-bye ... no, you.  Okay, together.  Bye-bye.
Um -- you mind pulling over?  Just -- for a second?
First of all, don't talk baby talk to your wife in front of me.  It really undermines your authority.  And second, I know you're my boss and all, but you are the worst fucking driver I've ever seen.  Move over or I quit.
There's something about this whole thing I don't quite understand, Mr. Masry.
If PG&E messed with our water, why would they bother saying anything about it to us? Why not just keep quiet about it?
To establish a statute of limitations.  See, in a case like this, you only have a year from the time you first learn about the problem to file suit.  So PG&E figures, we'll let the cat out of the bag -- tell the people the water's not perfect; if we can ride out the year with no one suing, we'll be in the clear forever.
But it was more than a year ago that they told us --
It's okay.  We're not suing.  All we're doing is using this information to get you a real nice purchase price on your house, and get you two --  -- a comparable retroactive bonus added to your sale price.  This way, and PG&E can still look good to their shareholders, cause they're not involved in an ugly lawsuit; all they're doing is buying a little property.
It doesn't say here how much this whole thing's gonna cost us.
My fee's forty percent of whatever you get awarded.
Boy, do I know how you feel.  First time I heard that number, I said you got to be kidding me.  Forty God damn percent?
Erin --
I'm the one who's injured, and this joker who sits at a desk all day is gonna walk away with almost half my reward?
Erin --
Then I asked him how much he makes if I didn't get anything.
Then I don't get anything either.
And I realized, he's taking a chance too.
All right, then.  Let's hit the road.
 Mr. Masry, if you don't mind my saying, you got a lot to learn about being friendly. These people just hired you as their lawyer. The least you could do is make a little pleasant conversation.
Donna, let me help you clean all this up.
So, what's, uh ... what's new?
You know that thing it says in here about rashes?
Uh-huh?
Well, this old neighbor of mine, Bob Linwood -- he ran the dairy on Community -- seemed like someone in his family always had a rash somewhere or other.  I just figured it was something in the genes.  And you know how it is -- you don't like to ask about things like that ...
Excuse me.  Are you Mr. Linwood?
Yeah?
I'm Erin Brockovich.  I work at the law firm that represents your former neighbors the Browns.  They suggested I give you a call.
Boy howdy, did I ever wear the wrong shoes.
... and Mr. Linwood seemed to think that your husband had been sick as well.
Yes, Mr. DeSoto has lung cancer.  Never smoked a day in his life, neither.
Mrs. DeSoto said she wasn't sure exactly what it was that you had --
She's not alone on that one.
Well, they know what it is -- it's called fibrous dysplasia --
The bones start growing again.  Gives her headaches like you wouldn't believe.
-- they just don't know what caused it.
... then Mike Ambrosino remembered seeing you folks at the hospital from time to time too, so I thought I'd just stop by.  You must be Annabelle.
Uh-huh.
Whew, are you ever a beauty.  I mean, you must drive those boys crazy.
Tell me something, George.  What kind of God lets a beautiful little 10-year-old girl get brain cancer?  Isn't He supposed to be in charge of stuff like that?  Make sure it doesn't happen?  I swear, any other job, He'd be fired.
Hunh-uh.  Absolutely not.
That's crazy -- why not?
Because I said no.  Look -- the only reason PG&E's even talking to us is cause this is a quiet little real estate dispute.  We add plaintiffs, and suddenly we're in the middle of a toxic tort -- with a statute problem -- against a massive utility.  No, thank you.
Okay, so here's what I'll do.  I'll go on up to Ted and Rita Daniels -- two of the nicest people you'd ever hope to meet, who spend every single day watching their little girl fight like a dog against this cancer -- I'll tell them we can't help them cause you don't feel like working that hard.
It's not about working hard --
Bullshit.
-- It's about being realistic.  Something like this, Erin -- it could take forever. They're a huge corporation.  They'd completely bury us in paperwork.  I'm just one guy with a shitty little P.I. firm.
-- who happens to know they poisoned people and lied about it.
And this shit is bad news, Mr. Masry.  Not only does it attack every organ of the body, it fucks with your DNA, too.  That means these people's genes, and the genes of their kids, and the genes of their grandkids --
I know how DNA works, Erin --
We can get these people.  With a little effort, I really think we can nail their asses to the wall.
Oh, you do?  With all your legal expertise, you believe that?
Okay, fine.  I don't know shit about shit. But I know the difference --
-- BETWEEN RIGHT AND WRONG!
Damn it.
How many families we talking about here?
Four more.  Eleven people.  So far.
You think there's more?
Well -- I found one document at the water board that had a toxic test well reading from 1967.  A hell of a lot of people have lived on that land since then.
This is a whole different ball game, Erin. A much bigger deal.
Kinda like David and what's-his-name?
Kinda like David and what's-his-name's whole fucking family.  Okay, here's the deal -- if, and only if, you find me the evidence to back all this up -- I'll do it.  I'll take it on.
You're doing the right thing, Mr. Masry.
Yeah, yeah.  Remind me of that when I'm filing for bankruptcy.
Course, gathering evidence -- now, that's a big job.  A hell of a lot bigger than just filing.  I'm gonna be working a lot harder now, taking on a lot more responsibility ...
What now?
Another raise wouldn't hurt.  And with all the time I'm gonna be spending on the road, I'll probably be needing my own cel phone, won't I?
You each can pick out four things.  But nothing huge.  Look at the price.  Nothing crazy.
You can buy 'em all the toys you want, but come Monday, when you split again, they're still gonna be pissed.
George, I am just trying to do something nice for my kids on my one day off.  Could you please not give me a hard time about it?
One toy per kid is doing something nice. Four is ... something else.
Well, hell, I guess that's it, then, huh? They're scarred for life.  They're gonna start holding up 7-11's any day now.
I'm just saying --
 I know what you're saying, and I don't wanna hear it.  I am doing the best I can.
Dr. Frankel, it's Erin Brockovich.  Tell me something: if I wanna find as much evidence of hexavalent chromium contamination as I possibly can, what should I do?
Well, what you have to remember is, if you have hex chrom in the water, you have it in anything that lived off the water.
What I'd do is start a collection.  Anything that existed in water, on water, under water
anything that had water flow over or under it ...
anything that had water pass through it ...
... collect 'em, label 'em, then bring 'em to me.  I'll analyze 'em, see what we got.
For God's sake, Erin, I can see your panties.
Liar.  I'm not wearing any.
Hello?
Is this the Erin Pattee Brockovich that's been snooping around the water board?
Yes.  Who's this?
I'm not gonna quit cause of one creepy phone call, George.
Come on, Erin.  A job's supposed to pay your bills, not put you in danger.
I'm not in danger.  I have a dead bolt. Remember?
Look, don't take this the wrong way, but don't you think you might be out of your league here?
No, see -- that's exactly what those arrogant PG&E fucks want me to think -- that because they got all this money and power, we don't stand a chance in hell against them.  But you know what?  They're wrong.
It doesn't have to be this complicated, Erin.  There's a lot of jobs out there.
 How would you know?
You mind telling me what that's supposed to mean?
Nothing.
If you got a problem with me taking care of your kids instead of getting some job, just say so.
I didn't say that.
Cause I can get a job.  I will.  And you can start leaving the kids with the chicken fat lady again.  Would that make you happy?
Keep your voice down.
I know what they can sleep through, Erin.  I probably know it better than you.
Hey, Ross.  Tell me something.  Does PG&E pay you to cover their ass, or do you just do it out of the kindness of your heart?
 I don't know what you're talking about.
The fuck you don't.  No one calls me Pattee. That heavy-breathing sicko that called the other night could've only found out about me from you.  People are dying, Ross.  You got document after document here, right under your nose, that says why, and you haven't said word one about it.  I wanna know how the hell you sleep at night.
Hello?
I'm so tired I'm about to drive off the road.  Keep me awake, willya?
What do you want, a joke?
No, no jokes, I gotta pee.  Just tell me about your day.  What went on back there?
Well, come to think of it, we did have a big event around here.  Beth started talking.
What?  Beth?  My Beth?
Yeah.  We were sitting around at lunch and she pointed at a ball and said, "ball."
I'd never seen that before -- someone's first word.  Pretty intense.
Is that what I think it is?
She lived on the plume.  You never know.
This was the community pool?
Yeah, that PG&E built.  The whole time we thought it was algae that made it so green.
I'm bored, and so are the kids.
Just a few more minutes, then we can go.  Take her, will you?
Erin, this here's Frank Melendez.  He works over at the compressor station --
I'm sorry.  What were you saying?
I need a ride.
You wanna talk about --
No.
What, asshole?
Um, Erin?  This is Mike.  Ambrosino.
She was about to take a handful of these --
It's a morphine thing -- for pain --
I'm embarrassed.
That's okay.  I understand.
It's just -- the pain.  It's only getting worse.  I can't be a good wife.  I can't be a good mother.
I'm real sorry, Laura.
Know what I always thought I wanted outta life, Erin?  A Jaguar.
Jaguar's a darn pretty car.
I thought if I could spend that kinda money on a car, it'd mean everything else was fine.  I don't even know how much they cost.
A lot.  But you hang in there, maybe you'll get one.
Wouldn't mean the same thing.
They used the hex chrom here, in these cooling tanks, as an anti-corrosive.  Then they dumped it here, in these six ponds.
I don't remember seeing any ponds up there.
They covered 'em over.  And not too carefully either, cause you dig one inch under the surface, and the dirt is green as a fucking shamrock.
And that's what caused the contamination?
It didn't help, but no.  The real problem's on the bottom.
See, according to this, they were supposed to line the ponds so this shit couldn't seep into the ground.  But guess what --
They skipped that step.
I guess it was a little too inconvenient. So for fourteen years, this stuff flowed into the groundwater, free as you please.
Jesus.  I don't even wanna ask what you did to make this Melendez guy talk.
For your information, Frank cares what was in those ponds 'cause he used to spend half his day wading around them.  That was his job.
No shit.
No --
SHIT!  SHIT!  Hot!  Hot!  Hot!
You ... asshole ...
Erin -- lemme tell you something.  If I'da put three researchers on this, I wouldn't expect them to dig up all the information you got here.  This is some damn good work.
Yeah?  Then gimme another raise.
Hey, I got a staff to pay, plus rent, plus I haven't billed a minute of my time since I started on this case, so you can quit hitting me up like I'm rich or something.
Don't give me that.  You're gonna get plenty rich off of this, Mr. 40 percent.  We got those PG&E fuckers by the balls here.
We've got the PG&E fuckers in Hinkley by the balls.  But nobody's getting rich unless we can pin this on the corporate PG&E fuckers in San Francisco.
What do you mean?
PG&E corporate is claiming they had no way of knowing what was going on in Hinkley.
Oh, they knew.  They had to know.
Show me the document that proves that.
Then they didn't know.  And if they didn't know, we can't hit 'em for punitive damages. And punitive damages is where the money is.
Jesus Christ, Ed -- you know, the more I work on this thing, the more I realize what a crock of shit this legal system is.  Here we got a company that poisoned a whole aquifer -- that built a pool for a town, then filled it with toxic water -- and we're the ones who've gotta bust our ass proving things?  That's just not right.
I like this case.
Really?  It makes me sick.
Me too.  That's why I like it.  It's been a long time since I had a case I cared about.
You didn't care about my case?
I would now.
Hey.  I like working with you.
Well, good, Ed.  I like working with you too.
When'd you start calling me Ed?
I'm just saying -- we have one night to ourselves, why do we have to spend it here?
Cause it's my office party.  If you had an office, I'd go to your party.
And here, ta-daa, is my desk.
Which one?  Maybe they didn't think you were coming.
 God damn.  I work so hard.  The least they could do ...
Hey.  Fuck 'em, babe.  Who needs 'em, huh?
 See?  All we need is each other.
Good thing there isn't a present there, huh? That mighta hurt.
I'll show you what we did back here --
That's Ed.
Lock the door.
No, I wanna say hi.
We'll say hi later.  Lock it.
Come on, George, it's a party.
Your wife's real pretty.
She's not my wife.
It wouldn't kill you to talk about something other than yourself and your own fucking job once in a while --
What do you want to talk about instead? Your day?  That's a fascinating subject.
Fuck you.  Just cause I don't spend all day trying to prove what hot shit I am --
That is not what I'm --
Bullshit, Erin.  Bullshit.
Great.  Excellent.  Thank you very much.
It's okay, baby.  It'll be okay.
I'd got so used to having 'em come up benign, I guess I just didn't expect it.
Sure wish I had longer to get used to the idea.  You think if you got no uterus, and no breasts, you're still technically a woman?
Sure you are.  You're just a happier woman, cause you don't have to deal with maxi-pads and underwire.
We're gonna get them, aren't we, Erin?  You gotta promise me we're gonna get them.
If they've sent that little shmuck Baum again, I'm gonna be real pissed off.
From their tone of voice on the phone, I'd say they're taking us more seriously.
Yeah, I heard that one before.
Mr. Sanchez, Mr. Webster, Mr. Buda, and Ms. Cooper, from PG&E are here.
Jesus.  They look like the Secret Service.
They're trying to intimidate us.  Tell them to wait in the conference room.
Counselors --
Counselors.
Let's be honest, here.  Two million dollars is more money than these people have ever dreamed of.
Oh, see, now that pisses me off.  First of all -- we got more'n a hundred plaintiffs. They may not be sophisticated, but they do know how to divide, and two million dollars isn't shit when it's split between them.
Erin --
And second of all -- these people don't dream about being rich.  They dream about being able to watch their kids swim in a pool without worrying they'll have to have a hysterectomy at age 20, like Rosa Diaz -- a client of ours -- or have their spine deteriorate like Stan Bloom.  Another client of ours.  So before you come back here with another lame-ass offer, I want you to think real hard about what your spine is worth, Mr. Buda -- or what you'd expect someone to pay you for your uterus, Miss Sanchez -- then you take out your calculator and multiply that number by a hundred.  Anything less than that is a waste of our time.
Um, Erin?  Listen.  Even though you're not necessarily my favorite person in the world ...  ... sometimes you're not half-bad.
I'm gonna assume that was meant as a compliment, Anna, and just say thank you.
Hey.  A new plaintiff called, wants to meet you.  I told him we'd be out there Thursday.
D'you get his name?  Course not.  Jesus, Ed --
He said he'd be at the gas station at six.
Boy, this job takes me to some of the best damn places, huh?
This is the only station in town, right?
Yup.
Someone's following me.
What?  Who?
Some guy in a truck -- he waited till I was alone, then he followed me, like, two miles. Jesus, I'm shaking.  Get me a beer.
 Beer, please.
What kind of truck?
I don't know.  Big.  Dark.
He's gone.  Did you get a license plate?  Or a make?
No, Ed -- what with me running for my life, I didn't have time to check those things --
I was just asking.  Are you all right?
Yeah.  Yeah, I'm ... fine.
Jesus, you look like shit.  When was the last time you had a decent night's sleep?
Don't worry.  I'm getting two rooms.
Lock the door every which way you can.  And if there's anything -- funny sound, whatever -- pound on the wall.  I'll come right over.
I think you should know -- there's very few people in the world who don't piss me off 90 percent of the time.  You're one of 'em.
I'm triple locking my door, so don't even think of trying to take advantage.
Hello?
What are you doing?  Where's George?
I don't know.
George!
Jesus, George, they're turning the kitchen into a hellhole.  You know you can't leave them alone like that.
What's going on?  What are you doing?
Thinking.
About what?
About this.
What's that?
It's a pair of earrings.  I saw 'em in the mall one day, and I thought, damn, those would look good on those beautiful earlobes. So I bought 'em.  And I said to myself, next time Erin says something nice, does something nice, I'll surprise her with 'em.  Know how long ago that was?  Six months.  In six months, you haven't said one nice thing to me.  That's a long time.
I'm sorry.  I'm just working so hard --
I know.  But still.  Six months.  I think you oughta either find a different job or a different boyfriend.  Cause there may be men who don't mind being the maid and getting nothing in return, but I'm sure as shit not one of 'em.
I can't leave my job, George.
Yeah, you can.  You could just quit.  People do it all the time.
I can't.  Look -- this job -- it's the best thing that ever happened to me.  I mean it. For the first time in my life, I got people respecting me.  Up in Hinkley, I walk into a room and everyone shuts up just to hear what I got to say.  I never had that.  Ever. Don't ask me to give it up.  I need it.
More than you need me.
I need it.
Maybe you didn't like who you were before, Erin, but I did.  That's who I fell in love with.
You already packed up your stuff?
I pretty much knew what your answer was gonna be.
Wait here.
Where's my paycheck?
Have you been logging on?
What?
I moved payroll onto the computer.  It only knows to process paychecks for employees who log on in the morning and off at night.
 Now how'm I supposed to do that when I'm not in here most mornings and nights?
You're clever.  I'm sure you'll think of something.
I don't believe this --
I want my fucking money --
 I'm sorry, I'm gonna have to put you on hold for just one second here -- (puts the call on hold, then, to Erin) Do you mind?
 Yeah, I mind.  You bet your ass I mind.
Oh, Jesus.  You wanna tell me what the problem is here, or --
It's my paycheck.  Which I earned.  Which I deserve.  Which I shouldn't have to beg for. That fat-ass bitch won't give it to me.
Erin, you're a big girl.  If you got a problem with Jane, work it out for yourself. I don't have time to deal with --
Fuck you.  Make time.  Cause I bust my ass for you.  I watch everything else in my life go straight in the toilet, for you.  And what do you do for me?  Huh?  You see the way I'm treated around here -- but have you ever stood up for me once?  Have you ever mentioned to everyone what good work I'm doing?  Have you ever bothered saying, hey, Erin doesn't get paid the most cause she has the best tits; she gets paid the most cause she's the best God damn employee I've ever had?
Is that what you want?
I want my paycheck.  By the end of the day.
I'll see what I can do.
You might want to think real hard about the amount, too.  My kids are sitting in the God damn parking lot right now, cause I still don't make enough to afford good child care. Makes me think about looking around for a job where I'm appreciated, for shit's sake.
Can I play roller hockey?
We'll see.
When?
Randy's mom said yes right away.
 Well, God damn it, Matthew -- Randy's mom doesn't work eighteen-hour days, and Randy's dad didn't leave her, so figuring out who's gonna take who where is a little easier over at Randy's house.
Erin Brockovich?
Yeah?
Package from Masry & Vititoe.
Believe it or not, I would've been satisfied with just the check.
Well, you go threatening to leave, I can't take any chances.  You're the only person around who understands what I'm doing. Things come up, I gotta know I got someone to turn to.
What kind of things come up?
Things like the head counsel for PG&E calling me with an offer.  20 million, plus attorney's fees.  Take it or leave it.
Whoa.  No shit.
It's about 50 thousand per plaintiff.
So what are you thinking?
I'm thinking ... I wish someone else had to make this decision.  50 thousand bucks is more than any other California toxic plaintiff has gotten. Ever.  But ...
... but it won't cover Annabelle Daniels's medical bills.
And it's less than pocket change for PG&E.
Do you think we'd do better by going to trial?
Maybe.  but maybe not.  We still don't have anything linking this to PG&E corporate. Plus, there's the statute problem.  Plus, we're way short on manpower, so we'd need to bring on more lawyers ...
Plus, 40 percent of 20 million's a whole lot of money.
It's eight million dollars, Erin.  Eight million dollars.
That's a fucking fortune, Ed.  And you know I'm the last person on Earth to walk away from a big payday.  But you and me didn't get into this to get rich.  We did it cause we both have this voice in our heads saying, do the right thing; get these plaintiffs what they deserve -- the right to live and die in some kind of comfort and peace.  If 50,000 isn't gonna buy that, then we gotta say no.  Trust me.  If you don't do the right thing for these people, getting that 6 million dollars is gonna feel like shit.
I knew I put up with your bullshit for a reason.
This guy, Erin -- he's got more toxic tort experience than anyone else in California. He's huge.  And he said yes to me on the first phone call, right off the bat.  That's it.  The big one.  They've got the top three floors.
Holy shit.  Who do they represent, God?
Don't joke.  They might.  So do me a favor and behave yourself for once.  Ed Masry to see Kurt Potter.
Scuse me, sir, you got a real nice ass, you know that?
Oh, I'm sorry.  Was that not what you meant by behaving myself?
Ed.  Good to see you again.
Theresa, hey -- this is Erin Brockovich.
Kurt, Ed Masry's here.  And this is Erin Brockovich, Ed's assistant.  Erin, this is Kurt Potter.
 Well.  Now I know what you meant when you called her your secret weapon.
When'd they file the demur?
Yesterday.
What's a demur?
It's PG&E saying to the judge that we don't have a case.  Their lawyers go --
How many counts?
Sixty-nine.  We've got good answers to all of 'em.
Counts?
Reasons PG&E thinks it shouldn't go to --
Who's the judge?
Corey.
Good.
Why good?
He's got a reputation for doing all his --
How long's he gonna take?
You know what?  Why don't I take Erin down the hall, so we can start in on this stuff?
Hey -- those are my files --
Yeah, we had them couriered over.  And listen, good work.  They're a great start. We're just going to have to spend a little time filling in the holes in your research.
Excuse me -- Theresa, was it?  There are no holes in my research.
No offense.  There are just some things we need that you probably didn't know to ask.
Don't talk to me like I'm an idiot, okay?  I may not have a law degree, but I've spent 18 months on this case, and I know more about those plaintiffs than you ever will.
Erin.  You don't even have phone numbers for some of them.
Whose number do you need?
Everyone's.  This is a lawsuit.  We need to be able to contact the plaintiffs.
I said, whose number do you need?
You don't know six hundreds plaintiffs' numbers by heart.
Annabelle Daniels.
Annabelle Daniels.  714-454-9346.
10 years old, 11 in May.  Lived on the plume since birth.  Wanted to be a synchronized swimmer, so she spent every minute she could in the PG&E pool.  She had a tumor in her brain stem detected last November, had an operation on Thanksgiving, shrunk it with radiation after that.  Her parents are Rita and Ted.  Ted's got Chron's disease, and Rita has chronic headaches and nausea and underwent a hysterectomy last fall.  Ted grew up in Hinkley.  His brother Robbie and his wife May and their five kids Robbie, Jr., Martha, Ed, Rose, and Peter lived on the plume too.  Their number's 454-9445. You want their diseases?
Okay, look -- I think we got off on the wrong foot here --
That's all you got, lady.  Two wrong feet. In fucking ugly shoes.
She insulted me!
Bullshit.  It was a misunderstanding.  But instead of handling it politely, instead of treating her with respect --
Why the fuck should I respect her?
Because that's how people treat each other!
Not in my world.
Gee, I wonder why.
Hey!  You're my ride!
I've also been thinking about the team. Responsibilities, who should cover what --
Right.
I think we should makes some changes.
I know she isn't real warm, but they say she's a real good lawyer ...
That may be.  But I don't want her coming to the house again.  She's kinda stuck-up, and she upsets Annabelle.  Now, I hate to say this, but when she left today, Rita asked if we should get a new lawyer.
Ted, no -- don't do that.  If you don't like Theresa, you don't have to work with her. Me and Ed are still here for you.
I called Ed two days ago, Erin, and he still hasn't called me back.
Ed Masry's office ... Sorry, he can't be interrupted.
Don't be a pain in the ass, okay, Brenda? Just put him on.
 I said, he can't be interrupted.
Hey, Erin, I thought you were taking a sick day.
So did I.
What's going on in there?
Some meeting.  With PG&E people.
PG& -- Are you sure?
Yup.  They must be important, too, cause they came on a special plane.
... we would enter into binding arbitration -- judge, no jury -- with a settlement to be between 50 and 400 million dollars.
Any preconditions on the settlements?
The plaintiffs have to agree to it unanimously.  And they're barred from ever discussing their settlement with anyone.
50-400 million dollars isn't a whole hell of a lot of money for your company, Mr. Corbin.
50-400 million dollars is a great deal of money for your plaintiffs, Mr. Masry.
Could I -- just take a brief break here for a moment?  I'll be right back.
If you tell me to relax, I'm gonna kick your fucking head off --
Erin, it's just a meeting.
People don't fly down in their own god damn plane for "just a meeting" --
Look, you said you weren't feeling great.  I thought you should rest.
Bullshit.  You'd drag me off my deathbed if it suited you.
Okay, look.  It's an important meeting. Kurt thought, if it was just lawyers --
Kurt thought?  What about you?  Do you think anymore?
Look, this is serious now.  They're talking serious money --
And, what, I'm not serious?
You're emotional.  You're erratic.  You say any God damn thing that comes into your head.  And I'm not saying that's bad.  That can be great; that can be a lot of fun --
"Fun?"  Jesus, "fun?"  I kill myself for a year and a half, hand you the best case of your life on a God damn silver platter, remind you of why you became a lawyer in the first place, and you think of me as "fun?"
Okay, now you're making this personal, and it isn't --
Not personal?  That's my work in there, Ed. My sweat, my labor, my time.  If that's not personal, I don't know what is.
 How dare you take that away from me.
No one's taking anything --
Bullshit.  You stuck me in Siberia dictating to some God damn steno clerk so you could finish this thing without me.  After all I've done for you, that's the thanks I get.
Don't give me that.  You've gotten plenty. You've been well-paid; you've gotten lots of perks ...
Perks?  Jesus -- perks?
If this piece of shit is supposed to take the place of your respect, you can take it and shove it up your ass.
Holy shit --
Matthew --
Matthew!  MATTHEW!
God damn it, Matthew.  What the hell are you doing out here?
I'm gonna go live with George.
If you leave here real fast, I might not kill you.
We'll work out the roller hockey thing, okay?  Whatever you want, we'll work it out. I promise.
You always say that.  Then you go to work and forget you promised.
I never forget, honey.  I try, real hard. It's just, for some reason, I don't seem to be able to organize things right and -- when it comes to you guys, I end up falling short.
You never fall short for the work people.  I guess maybe you just love them more.
Oh, God, sweetheart, no.  There's nothing on Earth I love more than you.  Nothing.  I promise.
I'm looking for Erin Brockovich.  They brought her in in an ambulance?
Meningitis?  What the hell is meningitis?
It's an inflammation of the spinal cord and part of the brain.
Jesus.
She must be a tough cookie, cause it's a pretty advanced case.  I'd say she's been walking around with it for a few weeks now.
How does someone get meningitis?
Usually, in adults, it's from exposure to bacteria or a virus or ...
... or lemme guess -- toxic waste?
They can stay at my place till you go home.
They said that'd be tomorrow.  They just wanna keep an eye on me another night.
Fine.  I'll drop 'em off tomorrow afternoon.
Thank you.
 Mm-hm.
George, hang on.  Look ... I'm sorry.  I just --
I'll drop 'em by tomorrow.
If you're here to fire me, your timing's lousy.
I'm not gonna fire you.  I wanted to.  But then you got sick, and that woulda made me look like a shit.  You embarrassed me, Erin.
I know.  I'm sorry.  Do I get to hear what happened anyway?
Between 50 and 400 million, definitely?
Uh-huh.
And if you had to guess ...
With nothing linking it to the corporate offices yet, I'd say we'll end up on the lower end of that.  Still a lot of money.
So why would PG&E offer it?
Because.  They know the evidence; they know they're gonna lose a jury trial.  Maybe they wouldn't lose 400 million bucks, but once you factor in all they'd spend on this case in the next ten years, it makes a lot of --
Wait, what do you mean, ten years?
Five years, maybe, for a trial.  Double that for the appeal.
 I'm sorry, are you saying that if this thing goes to trial, it'll be ten years before these plaintiffs see their money?
Hey, that's not so bad.  Compare it to the Love Canal -- that was twenty years ago, and those people still haven't seen a dime.  So in legal terms, ten years is --
Fuck legal terms.  We're talking about human beings here.  Sick people.  A whole bunch of them are gonna be dead in ten years.  They need their money now!  We gotta get 'em to agree to the arbitration, Ed.  We gotta get every damn one of those plaintiffs to --
I know.  We're having a meeting, it's all set up --
When?  Where?
Tuesday at seven, at the Hinkley firehouse.
Okay, good.  I think I should be the one to tell 'em, cause they trust me more than --
You're not gonna be there.
The fuck I'm not.  I don't care what the doctor says --
This isn't doctor's orders.  It's mine.  I'm saying you can't come.
Why not?
Because Kurt doesn't want to work with you. He thinks you're a loose cannon.
Fuck Kurt.
Erin --
No, I'm serious.  You know what Kurt Potter is?  He's the kind of guy who never would have taken this case in the first place. He's the kind of guy who would have sold these plaintiffs down the river when PG&E offered 20 million.  He doesn't work like us, Ed.  There's no little voice in his head telling him to do the right thing.
Don't come, Erin.  I mean it.  If you do, I'm gonna have to fire you.  Just ... concentrate on getting well.
Come on, kids, we're going for a ride.
Binding arbitration isn't all that different from a trial.  It's overseen by a judge. Evidence is presented in much the same way.
Stay in the car, babies, I won't be long.
And then a jury decides?
No, sorry, I should have mentioned that. There's no jury in binding arbitration.  No jury, and no appeal.
No appeal?  So what are our options if we don't like the result?
Well -- you have none.  The judge's decision is final.  But I really don't anticipate that as a problem.
You don't even know what it's gonna be; how do you know we're gonna like it?
As I said before, it will definitely be somewhere between 50 and 400 million dollars.
Which?  There's a big difference there.
I wouldn't want to speculate at this point.
Ed -- what do you think it'll be?
I think ... Kurt's right.  We shouldn't speculate.
So then, what, that mystery number's divided up at the whim of some judge --
Judges don't make decisions based on whim, ma'am.  They make them based on precedent and evidence.
Fucking idiot --
Look.  Everyone.  Is this a big decision? Absolutely.  But I do believe that if you put a little faith in the system, you'll be quite pleased with the outcome.
Mr. Potter, if you knew me from Adam, you'd know that being pleased isn't an option for me anymore.  Now don't take this personally, sir, but I've never seen you before in my life.  I'm not about to put my faith in anything just cause you tell me to.
Can I have one of those counter thingies, please?
I don't want to stay here.  It smells.
We got no choice.  I'm not gonna make it home tonight.  Now go wash up and climb into bed.
Hello?
Hi.  It's me.  I got a favor to ask you.
I don't do favors for you anymore.
It's not for me; it's for my kids.  You're the only one I trust them with.
I got you your own room.
They up?
Hunh-uh.  Not yet.  Look, don't take any of 'em on your bike, okay?  Call a cab if you wanna go somewhere.
How long's this whole thing gonna take?
I don't know.  Few days.  Thanks for helping me.  I appreciate it.
And I miss you.
Yeah, well -- good help is hard to find.
I treated you real bad, George.  I know that.  But, my problem was -- I never been with anyone who deserved better than that. You're the first nice guy who ever liked me.
I just ... didn't know how to handle it. That's all.
Think you could learn?
 You know me.  I pick things up real fast.
You shouldn't be driving around, you know. You're sick.
Yeah, but I'm gonna get better.  A lot of these folks aren't.
I don't know, Erin -- the way he was talking to us, telling us everything was gonna be fine -- I just didn't trust him.
And after all we been through -- no jury, no appeal.  It just makes me nervous.
I understand all that. And I don't wanna force you into anything.  If you don't want to sign, that's fine.  But why don't we talk it over a little, cause I'd sure hate for you to turn this down for the wrong reasons.
You wouldn't happen to have a little time right now, would you, Donna?
For what?
Well, I was gonna head over to the Browns now.  I was thinking -- Mandy really values your opinion ...
I thought so, too, but Erin says a trial's gonna take years
What time is it?
Real early.  We're just gonna take your car to get some breakfast.
No, I need my car --
We'll just be a minute.  Get a little more sleep.
C'mon, pal.  Leave that alone, we gotta go.
Oh, baby, please don't play with that, okay? I got 'em all organized.  Just put it back.
This girl's the same age as me.
That's right, sweetheart.
She's one of the sick people?
Yeah.  She is.  But you know what?  That's why I'm helping her.  So she can get some medicine to make her feel better.
How come her own mom isn't helping her?
Cause her own mom's real sick, too.
Maybe we'll bring you back some breakfast. You want eggs?
Eggs'd be great, baby.  Eggs'd be perfect.
Hey, y'all.  How you all doing today?
Mike!  I been looking all over for you. Come here, I wanna talk to you.
I'm gonna head out to Barstow and talk to some folks out there tonight.
Promise you'll turn around if you get tired.
I will.  Bye.
Jesus!
Okay, what're you gonna do?  You gonna kill me?  Dump my body in a ditch somewhere?  Or maybe you just wanna inject me with some poison too -- why change tactics at this stage of the game?  Get outta my way, you make me sick.
If PG&E made someone destroy a whole lot of documents -- would that matter to you?
Well ... I guess that depends on what the documents were.  I'm sorry -- I didn't get your name.
Embry.  Charles Embry.
I was working in the compressor, and out of nowhere the supervisor calls me up to the office and says, we're gonna give you a shredder machine, and send you on down to the warehouse.  We want you to get rid of all the documents stored out there.
Did he say why?
Nope.  And I didn't ask.
Did you get a look at the stuff you destroyed?
Well, it's pretty boring work, shredding -- you gotta find some way to entertain your mind.  So yeah, I took a look.
And ...?
There was a lot of dull stuff -- vacation schedules, the like.  But then there were a few memos about the holding ponds.  The water in them.  They had readings from test wells, stuff like that.
And you were told to destroy those?
That's right.
Course as it turns out, I'm not a very good employee.
What do you mean?
Well.  There were a few documents that I somehow didn't get around to shredding.  That I kept instead.
How come you didn't say anything when you found these things?
At the time, I thought, I got six kids, some of 'em want to go to college.  I can't afford to lose my job.  I told myself I was being honorable.  But there's nothing honorable in what I did.  Maybe that's why they picked me for the job. Maybe they knew what kind of man I was.
Hey, Ros, where are they?
In the conference --
Morning!
Erin?  What are you --
 You know what, Mr. Potter?  I completely forgot your birthday this year.  And seeing as how you've been so good to me, I think that is a terrible oversight.  So what I been doing over the last few days is I've been putting together a present for you.
635.  They all signed.  Every single one.
Ho - ly - shit.
Oh, now don't get all jealous, Ed.  I got a little something for you, too.
Internal PG&E documents, all about the contamination.  The one I like best says, and I'm paraphrasing here, but it says yes, the water's poisonous, but it'd be better for all involved if this matter wasn't discussed with the neighbors.  It's to the Hinkley station, from PG&E Headquarters. Stamped received, March, 1966.
Where did -- how did you do this?
Well, what with me not having any brains or legal expertise, I just went on up there and performed sexual favors.  635 blow jobs in five days.  Whew, am I ever tired.
Hey!
I don't know what to say.
Say you were wrong.
I was wrong.
Say you shortchanged me and you shortchanged yourself.
I did.  Both.
Say you'd be the luckiest son of a bitch on Earth if I didn't up and quit over all this.
The luckiest son of a bitch in the universe, Erin.  The luckiest son of a bitch in history.
But I know you're not gonna quit on me.
How do you know that?
 Cause you got a little voice in your head saying, do the right thing.  Give him another chance.
How you feeling today?
It's a good day.  I feel good.
Well, then -- if you're feeling up to it, maybe we should talk shop.
The judge came up with a number.
A number for the whole group, or for us?
Both.
He's making them pay the maximum.
Oh, my God.
And he's making them give five million of it to you all.
Five million dollars?
Five million dollars.
I don't even know how much money that is.
It's enough -- for whatever you need, for whatever your girls need, for whatever your girls' girls need -- it'll be enough.
I can put them in a good school.
Any school you want.
And get someone to help around the house.
Yup.
Oh my God.  Oh my God.
Oh, my God.
Masry & Vititoe, can I -- shoot!
Hey, Ros.  Nice view, huh?
Yeah, I'm gonna start sleeping here.  Masry & Vititoe, can I -- damn it.  Does anyone know anything about these phones?
Careful you don't spit from here; you could kill someone.
You see your office?
Yeah.  Yours is nicer.
Oh, okay.  Here it comes.
Here what comes?
The extortion, the threats ...
I wasn't gonna --
"I can always find someplace else to work. Someplace that'll pay me a fortune and give me a view of the French Riviera ..."
Ed, I swear, I'm not --
Okay, fine.  Fine  You backed me into a corner again.  You're holding me hostage ...
What is that?
Take it.
Two million dollars?
The firm took in sixty.  That's three percent.  Seemed like a fair bonus to me.
Oh, now I suppose you're gonna say it's not enough.  Well, tough, Erin.  Too goddamn bad.  Cause this is absolutely, positively where I draw the line.
