Sam Raimi
Interior - I Day      - D Night    - N Twilight - T
CAR  - Car B    - Bridge CAB  - Surrounding area outside cabin W    - Woods M.R. - Main Room D.R. - Dining Room K    - Kitchen C    - Cellar W.S. - Work Shed L.B. - Linda's Bedroom S.B. - Shelly's Bedroom C.B. - Cheryl's Bedroom B.T.R- Bathroom
12   ID - D.R.
Scene #12, Interior, Day, Dining Room
... Together, forever...
Ash, where are we?
I'll tell ya in a second. Now we're still on seventy-five just past the county border...
...Which would put us...which would put us...
Jesus Christ, just tell us already will ya?
...Right...
...Right...
Yes?
Here!
Scotty, watch out!
Turn!
Damn it Scott, what the hell was that? You trying to kill us?
Don't yell at me, it's your lousy steering wheel. The damn thing jerked right out of my hand.
I can't understand it. I just had this thing in for a tune-up.
Radio's dead too, ace.
And I just had 'em tune up the whole thing yesterday.
Well, then take it back 'cause the damn thing don't work. Only thing that works on the whole car is the lousy horn.
Aw, go to hell, I'm not waving at ya!
Jesus Christ.
Well, I'd like to make a toast. To Scott who almost killed us.
Aw, eat shit and die will ya?
Okay, okay- then to a wild week-end in a wonderful cabin with good friends, provided we live that long.
Hey Scotty, what's this place like anyway?
Well, the guy that's renting it says it's an old place, little run down, but it's right up in the mountains- totally secluded. (He takes a drink from the bottle) Best part is, we get it so cheap.
Why are we getting it so cheap?
I don't know, might be in real bad shape.
You mean nobody's seen this place yet?
Not yet.
Might not be too bad.
No...
Actually, it might be very nice.
Yeah...
It's probably a real pit.
I can't believe that we're renting a place for a week-end that nobody's seen.
Jesus Christ, not this again...
You know, mom and dad would never let us go up to a place like this if they knew-
-Which is exactly why they don't know. I'll tell you who I am gonna call. The guys that fixed up this car.
Hey, I think this is where we get off.
These mountains seem familiar.
What do they remind you of? Some- thing majestic? Adventure?
Yeah, more like adventure.
Any adventure in particular?
Shelly's sweater.
Oooh, you're gonna get it Scotty, when you least expect it, you're gonna get it good.
I...I sent 'em a check for the tune-up. but I'm just not paying for it.
This place is perfect.
The woods come awfully close to the house don't they?
So what's wrong with the woods, they can't bite ya.
It's just a little claustrophobic that's all.
Well, I think it's beautiful.
Me too, it's gonna be a bomb week- end.
It's supposed to be one of these on here.
Hey, this place has a dungeon.
Put these back will you?
They nailed it shut.
Good, I don't like cellars. Probably just some garbage down there anyways.
Cheryl, they don't nail garbage in cellars. I mean it's not going to try and get out or anything.
Well, what's down there?
Well, could be any number of things. Old baseball cards, mushrooms, dead bodies-
Hey, look at this!
Ta daaaaaa!
What're you drawing Cheryl?
I...I don't know.
Is it a bible?
No, no it's no bible. (She glances again at the cellar, knowing some- thing is down there) I don't know what it is.
Well, this one of the clock's not bad.
I got it right here.
Cheryl, this is really good. I like how you did the numbers in that wood- ish style.
I knew you'd like it.
It's really good Cheryl. Very close to the origional.
Yes, very close.
I'm gonna check dinner.
You better get washed up. I'll see ya in there.
Dead bodies in the cellar, dead bodies in the cellar...
Will you stop it?
Scott, leave her alone will ya?
Will you relax, I'm just kidding around. She can take a joke-
I'll get ya.
I'll get ya for this Cheryl.
I'd like to make a toast for all here this evening. As a greek friend of mine once said, "Nis-hat-nis-fert- dis-ruben-tu-tar-im."
Which means?
Party down!
What the hell...
What is this?
Whatever it is, it's still down there.
I don't like cellars, let's close it up. (She does not want to deal with it) It's probably just some animal.
An animal?! An an...ha-ha-ha-ha-ha- that's the stupidest thing I ever heard in my life. Jesus Christ.
Maybe it is just some animal.
Yeah, probably right. It's probably just some animal. Uh...Cheryl, why don't you make sure.
Scotty, I'm not going down there!
Okay, okay you cowards, I'll go.
Scotty don't. You're crazy if you go down there. Why don't you wait until morning.
Look, I'll be all right.
What melodrama! What courage! A kiss my brave hero.
I, your virgin queen eagerly await the precious moment when you will ascend.
Virgin queen?! Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-
Hey Scott, see any- thing?
Hey Scott!...Scott!
He's just kidding around.
Isn't he?
Linda, get me a flashlight.
That's the only one we brought up.
Then get that lantern.
Scott?
Ahhhhhhh!
What the hell are you doing down here, jerkin' off? How come you didn't answer me?
When?
Just now, I mean upstairs.
I didn't hear you.
Oh well, did you find anything?
Uh-uh.
What's this?
Shhh, listen to this.
My name is Julian Knowby. I am a pro- fessor of ancient Egyptian mythology in Dextin university's ancient history department...
This is the tape I found downstairs.
...I am recording this entry from a small cabin in the south- ern mountains of Tennessee. Here, I am staying with my wife for a few weeks so that I may continue my research un- disturbed. Since May, a group of assoc- iate professors and myself have been excavating the ruins of Ca'n Dar. I believe I have made an important find in that area, and thus the reason for this log. With it, I can keep an ac- curate record of translations from my latest find; the first of six, the others still lost, volumes of ancient Sumarian burial practices and rites. Basically, it is a book of do's and don'ts dealing with the deceased en- titled "Naturan Demanto" roughly trans- lated "Book Of The Dead." It is bound in human flesh, and inked with blood of the deceased...
Jeez, I'd hate to find out what they used for pens.
...This particular volume deals with demons and demon resurrect- ion. These are of the Katardi family, meaning those forces believed to inhab- it the jungles and woods of man's do- main. The first few pages that I have translated warn that these demons are dangerous, everpresent, and exist primarily through this book. As legend has it, only the sacred high priests of the Ca'n Dar tribe could posess these books, for they alone could properly control the resurrected de- mons. It is only through the act of reciting the resurrection passage that these demons would be able to posess the living. For many years, it was thought that this legend-
Hey, what'd you do that for? It was just getting good.
I just don't want to hear any more that's all.
Cheryl's scared, Cheryl's scared.
Scott, leave her alone will ya?
Jesus Christ.
She's acting like a baby- it's no big deal.
Tantir-ah-mis-trobeen-ha-zar-ta
Tantir-man-ov-mis-hazen-sober.
Kanda!
Shut it off.
Kanda!
Shut it off.
Kanda!
Shut it offffff!
Scott, you knew not to play it, I mean...I mean you knew it was upset- ting her. You just don't know when you're carrying something too far.
 Big deal, it's just a joke, shit.
You'd think she's three years old or something.
He's really been bothering you hasn't he?
No. It's not Scott. Scotty's okay. It's just that ever since we came up here, things have been a little too tense.  All these crazy things going on. And look at that window- we're gonna have to pay for that window now.
It'll be better tomorrow. Things'll smooth out, you'll see.
I hope so.
What'ya say we stay up for a while and listen to the storm.
Deal. Lemme check on Cheryl. I'll be right back.
Ah ha!
Stealing from the blind eh? It's for you.
It better be good.
Oh Ash, it's beautiful.
I was going to give it to you before we left, but things got so hectic, this is the first chance I've had. Do you like it?
It's beautiful. I really love it. I'll never take it off.
Is anybody out there?
I know someone's out there...I heard you...I heard you in the cellar.
Help, help, let me in. Open the door!
Ashly! Linda! Open up!
Please, someone please! Help me, help meeeee!
What the hell happ-
It...it tried to kill me. I, I heard a noise and...and I ran and the trees...the trees!
What are you-
Cheryl what's wrong with you? Did something in the woods do this to you?
No, no, no...the woods themselves- The trees- they're alive...
They're alive...
Ash, why don't I take her into the bedroom so she can lie down a little-
-I'm not lying down! I'm not staying here. We're leaving this place, we're leaving this place right now!
Wait a minute, I'm sure as hell not going anywhere.
Cheryl-
Cheryl, there's nothing out there. Trees do not attack people.
Ashly, will you drive me into town or not?
Right Now?  Sure, sure I'll drive you into town. But if you'll just listen to what you're saying, you-
I don't care how it sounds. I want to leave this minute. You can bring back my things when you go.
Okay- if you don't want to stay, I can't make you.
I'll stay some place in town tonight.
It's not gonna start.
I know it's not gonna start. It's not gonna let us leave.
Why are you slowing down?
What is this?
No, no, no, no, no...it's not going to let us leave, it's not going to let us go...it's not gonna let us gooooo!
Cheryl, wanna play some cards?
Uh-uh.
Hey, tomorrow morning, we'll find some way around that cliff into town okay?
Okay.
March 12th. Suzanne came after me and almost murdered me. My own wife. At first I thought it was a mental or physical disorder because of what had happened to her eyes, but I was only fooling myself. I knew what it was.
Okay, guess this card.
How am I going to know what card that is?
Guess, I'm going to see if you're psychic.
Okaaaay...is it a queen?
Right!
Really?
Yeah.
Hey Ash, I guessed the card right.
Truly amazing Linda.
Three days have passed since that thing has been down there. I was hop- ing to weaken it without food or water. Nothing worked. Finally, in desperation I dragged her out to the shed and dismembered her so that what- ever it was could not get up again.
Cheryl, did you see that?
Try this one.
Okay, lemme think, uh...
...Um, it's a seven.
Oh my God, what suit?
Diamonds, no wait! I mean hearts!
That's right- seven of hearts!
Hey Ash, did you see that? I guessed two cards in a row.
How do you do it Linda?
This is when I saw the dark figures moving about in the woods. I should have never tampered with the "Book Of The Dead." I now know that what- ever it is I have resurrected through this book, is coming for me.
You know, I always thought I had some sort of extra sense. You know, like e.s.p or something.
What's this one?
Another seven!
I don't believe it!
Queen of spades.
Four of hearts.
Eight of spades.
Two of spades- jack of diamonds- jack of clubs-
Why have you disturbed our sleep, awakened us from our ancient slum- ber? You will die. Like the others before you. We will take you one by one. All of you ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-
Oh my God, Shelly, get Scott in here!
Hurry!
Did you see her eyes? I'm scared. What's wrong with her?
What happened to her?
Look at her eyes.
She'll be okay Ash, she just took a bad bump.
Yeah.
We've still got a few hours before morning.
I don't know if I can wait that long.
You have to. We all have to. Then, once it's light out, we'll try to find a way to get around that chasm.
Why does she keep making those horrible noises?
I don't know.
And what about her eyes?
What about her eyes? For God's sake what happened to her eyes?!
Everything's gonna be all right.
Scotty, I...I think there's some- thing out there.
...Is to get some rest. Ash and I can stay up with Cheryl.
Okay.
Everything's gonna be okay. Come morning- you'll see.
Shelly, are you okay?
Keep an eye on Cheryl for a minute.
Shelly?
Shelly?
Thank you. I don't know what I would have done if I had remained on the hot coals burning my pretty flesh. You have pretty skin- give it to us!
Ahhhhhhh!
No...no...no...
Hit her!
Hit it!
Uh...Scott.
Yeah.
What is uh...what are we gonna do?
Bury her.
You...can't bury Shelly. She's a friend of ours isn't she?
Ash, she's dead.
Shelly's dead. We're gonna bury her now.
I saw an old hiking trail when we were driving up here. Now I don't know if it goes all the way around that gorge-
-Or if it's even still in tact.
Or if it's even still in tact. But uh, I guess I'll find out. Take good care of Linda.
I will. Do you have everything?
Yeah- all set.
Listen...Scotty...I'm sorry about falling apart like that when-
Don't bother, really.
If I find a way out of here, I'll mark it and then come back. Then if I'm not back here in a few hours... if for some reason...well, if I don't come back, grab Linda, leg and all, and just get her the hell out of here.
You're a good man.
Good, I'm the best.
Who's there? Ash?
It's me Linda.
Ash, I had a bad dream about Linda.
You did baby?
Yeah. She's all right isn't she?
Yeah. Fine.
Is Shelly okay too Ash?
Yeah, sure. She's sleeping that's all.
Ash, I love you.
Get some rest.
You lied to her. You lied to Linda. Shelly's not sleeping. She's dead. Don't you know the difference? You killed her. You and Scott cut her up with the axe. She's dead ha-ha-ha-ha- ha-ha-
Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-
Soon all of you will be like me and then who will lock you in the cellar? Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-
Ash, I think I'm dying. Jesus, I can't feel my legs.
Uh...uh Scotty you're gonna be okay. You're gonna be just fine- you'll see.
You'll see.
We're not gonna die!
...All gonna die. All of us.
We're not gonna die! We're not gonna die! We're getting out of here! Now listen to me- is there a way around the chasm.
Scotty. Scott!
Jesus Ash. I don't want to die. So... so lonely to die like this. You're not gonna leave me are you? Are you Ash?
I don't want to die. So lonely to die like this. You're not gonna leave me are you? Are you Ash? Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-
Scott, is there some way around the chasm?
Ash, I'm scared- I...I can't feel my legs.
Scott, listen to me please, for God's sake. Is there a way around the chasm?
There is...one way, the trail...but the trees, they know...don't you see- they're alive!! They're ali-ahhhhhhh!
Shut up!
God forgive me Linda.
Ash, oh Ash, help Me! Please.
Don't let them take me away again, please, please, please.
I won't, I won't- I promise.
Ashly? Ashly, help me. Let me out of here. I'm all right now.
I'm all right now, Ashly. I'm all right. Come unlock this chain and let me out.
Cheryl?
Cheryl?
Ash, what are you doing? This is your sister Cheryl. Don't you recognize me?
 You bastards! Why are you doing this? Why?
Oh...Linda.
It's useless, useless, useless. In time we'll come for him, then you ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-
Ash, Ash, please...I don't want to die- but...but I can't stand this pain. It hurts Ash. Gimme something. Gimme something to put me out.
Scott, I can't. I- I know it's bad. But I can't be alone now, I can't. I'd lose my mind.
Please Ash, please.
You'll get better- you'll see.
Yeah, tomorrow, soon, you'll be better and we'll both get out of here tomorrow.
There is no tomorrow! You- you've got to kill her and cut- cut her up- your sister too.
No, that was only with Shelly. You had to with Shelly. You- Linda loves me. You're delirious- I...I'll get you some water.
Now, now the sun will be up in an hour or so and we'll get out of here ...together. You, me, Linda, Shelly- n-no not Shelly, she- we'll all go home together. Wouldn't you like to be going home? You'd like that I'd bet, wouldn't ya?
...Scott.
Linda...
Stay back.
Linda please, if you can still hear me. Keep away.
Oh.....
The door...
More shells. Where did I see that box of shells?
C'mon, c'mon, get it over with, why are you torturing me like this? Placing his hand to his side, ASHLY discovers something in his pocket. He lifts it to his eyes. It is LINDA's necklace.
...Linda.
The old clock begins to tick again, normally. ASHLY slowly climbs to his feet to stand above the fuming debris. Open- ing his hand, he looks down at LINDA's necklace. The force retreats from him, out the door, slowly returning to the darkness from which it emerged. Gradually, the natural sounds of the forest swell and trees lose their gloom as Autumn colors return. The first rays of sunlight gleam over the woods beyond the cabin. Daybreak has finally come.
