You have a choice in this world, I believe, about how to tell sad stories.
On the one hand, you can sugar coat - the way they do in movies and romance novels.
Where villains are vanquished and... heroes are born and... - "Perfect" Hazel and "Perfect" Gus kiss in a dark room.
... beautiful people learn beautiful lessons...
... and nothing is too messed up that can't be fixed with an apology and a Peter Gabriel song.
I like that way as much as the next girl, believe me. It's just not the truth.
This is the truth. And EVERYTHING GOES BLACK. We HEAR:
Sorry.
Late in the Winter of my 17th year...
... my mother decided I was depressed.
I'm not depressed.
... she eats like a bird. She barely leaves the house,
I'm not depressed.
... she reads the same book over and over...
She's depressed.
I'm not depressed!
The booklets and web sites always list depression as a side effect of cancer...
Depression's not a side effect of cancer...
... it's a side effect of dying.
Which is what was happening to me.
... some days she won't even get out of bed. The Doctor scratches his beard, thinking.
I may switch you to Zoloft. Or Lexapro. And twice a day instead of once.
Why stop there?
Hmm?
Keep `em coming. I can take it. I'm like the Keith Richards of cancer kids. The Doctor looks at Frannie who just shakes her head.
Have you been going to that Support Group I suggested? Instead of answering, Hazel looks at her Mom.
She's gone a few times.
I'm not sure it's for me.
If you're depressed --
What?
"Journey?" Really?
Hazel.
Just give it a chance, ok? For me. Hazel rolls her eyes, knows she's lost this battle.
Who knows? You might even find it... enlightening.
... we are gathered here today - literally - in the heart of Jesus. ANGLE on Hazel who just shakes her head. This is the lamest thing she could be doing right now.
Who would like to share their story with the group? The basement is filled with SICK PEOPLE. Hazel among them. Most are under the age of 18. QUICK CUTS:
Jillian. 15. Lymphoma.
Angel. 17. Ewing sarcoma.
Patrick. 34. Testicular. It started a few years ago, when I was... As Hazel watches, bored, and Patrick continues, we hear:
I'll spare you the gory details of Patrick's ball cancer. Basically, they found it in his nuts, cut most of it out, he almost died, but he didn't die, and now here he is - divorced, friendless, addicted to video games, exploiting his cancertastic past in the heart of Jesus - "literally" - to show us that one day - if we're lucky - we could be just like him. They all say:
Who else would like to share?
I'm, uh, Hazel. 16.
And how are you doing Hazel? Hazel has no idea how to answer that.
You mean besides the terminal cancer?
Alright? I guess...? Isaac tries not to laugh at this. Hazel sits back down.
Maybe now I'll play a song...
It's Friday night.
Hmm?
I was just thinking... you should call your friends, see what they're up to.
Wanna see a movie? Hazel looks up from the book. Sees her parents. Gets an idea.
Why don't you guys go to a movie? 
You haven't been out in a while. Go. Have fun. Take the night off. Frannie and Michael look at one another again.
This is a really good show. Hazel sighs. And just like that, everyone goes back to what they were doing. CUT TO: QUICK SEQUENCE, which plays over:
And that was my life. - Hazel watching TV, book in hand. - Hazel in another doctor's office. - Hazel popping pills.
Reality shows. Doctor's appointments. Eight prescription drugs, three times a day.
And worse worse worst of all... support group.
Ugh. You can't make me.
Of course we can, we're your parents. Hazel frowns.
Hazel, you need to get out of the house. Make friends. Be a teenager.
If you want me to be a teenager, don't send me to Support Group. Buy me a fake ID so I can go to clubs and drink gimlets and take pot.
You don't take pot.
See, that's the kind of thing I would know with a fake ID.
And so I went... Frannie's car pulls up close to the back entrance.
Not because I wanted to or because I thought it would help. But for the same reason I did anything these days... Hazel, oxygen tank in toe, gets out of the car with Frannie's assistance.
... to make my parents happy.
Are you gonna sit here and wait the whole time?
Of course not, no. I...  I have errands to run. Hazel knows she's not planning to run any errands. She doesn't press the issue.
Ok.
Love you.
Love you too Mom.
The only thing worse than biting it from cancer - is having a kid bite it from cancer. As Frannie gets back in the car, she shouts to her daughter:
Make some friends! Hazel just shakes her head. CUT TO:
I'll take the stairs. The KID nods. The doors shut. Hazel is reminded - it could always be worse. She turns to go, walking right into:
Ooph. Sorry!
My bad. No, it's...
Excuse me. With the Beautiful Boy watching, a wan smile on his face, Hazel shuffles off as fast as she can, ducking into:
She looks in the mirror. So doesn't like what she sees. The Earth starts moving again. CUT TO:
Who would like to begin? No volunteers. Hazel catches sight of the Beautiful Boy, sitting next to Isaac. He seems to be watching her, that same flirty smile on his face. She self-consciously looks away.
Isaac, I know you're facing a challenging time. Perhaps you would like to say something... Isaac nods, rises.
Yeah, um... I'm Isaac. 17. Eye cancer.
Not that I'm complaining or anything. I know a lot of you have it way worse but, still, I mean, you know, being blind's gonna suck... As Isaac shares, the Beautiful Boy doesn't look away from Hazel. Hazel finds this intimidating. And intimidation irritates her. So she decides to play the game with him, meeting his gaze and holding it just as firmly. A staring contest.
...My girlfriend helps. And friends like Augustus here... Isaac nods towards the Beautiful Boy who now has a name - AUGUSTUS. He still doesn't look away from Hazel.
So... yeah. That's what's up.
And does your friend want to speak? This causes the Beautiful Boy to momentarily look away. Aha, he's lost the contest! Hazel smiles, flicks her eyebrows up as if to say "Victory is mine!" He smiles back at her, the most radiant smile on the planet. He turns back to the Group.
Hi. I'm Augustus Waters. 17. Had a touch of osteosarcoma bout a year and a half ago - lost this baby as a result...
But really I'm just here at Isaac's request.
And how are you feeling Augustus?
Me? Oh I'm grand. I'm on a roller coaster that only goes up, my friend. Hazel smiles. Gus catches this. Embarrassed, she stops smiling and looks away.
Perhaps you'd like to share your fears with the group, Augustus.
My fears? Gus thinks about this.
Oblivion.
Oblivion? ANGLE ON Hazel, intrigued.
Yeah, see... I intend to live an extraordinary life. To be remembered. If I'm scared of anything it's... not doing that. Patrick doesn't quite have the tools to deal with that.
Would, uh, anyone like to speak to that? And Hazel's hand goes up. Even Patrick is surprised by that.
Hazel! That's unexpected. Hazel stands, takes a second to gather her thoughts. Augustus watches her, waits for it.
I just wanna say... there will come a time when, you know, all of us are dead. Gus is now even more fixed on her than before.
It might be tomorrow. Might be a million years from now but... it's gonna happen. And when it does, enough generations will come and go, there'll be no one left to remember Cleopatra. Or Mozart. Or Muhammad Ali, let alone any of us, right? The look on Gus's face is unreadable.
Oblivion's inevitable. And if that scares you, well, I suggest you ignore it. God knows it's what everyone else does. A beat. And then an enormous smile spreads across Gus's face, not a flirty smile but a surprised one, a real one. CUT TO:
Always. Always.
Literally. Hazel turns to find the Beautiful Boy, Augustus, standing right next to her.
I thought we were in a church basement but apparently we were literally in the heart of Jesus. Hazel smiles.
Someone should probably tell him, don't you think? Jesus? Seems kinda dangerous keeping all these kids with cancer in your heart. Gus laughs.
What's your name?
Hazel.
No your full name?
What?
I didn't say anything.
Why are you looking at me like that?
Because you're beautiful. Hazel is taken aback. No one's ever said that to her before.
I enjoy looking at beautiful people and I decided a while back not to deny myself the simpler pleasures of existence. Particularly given that, as you so astutely pointed out, we're all gonna die pretty soon.
Hey Gus.
Hey Alisa. Hazel isn't surprised that other girls know Gus. Of course they do. She turns back towards Isaac and Monica pawing at each other. She hears:
Always. Always.
What's with the "always?"
"Always" is their thing. They'll "always" love each other and whatnot. Must have texted "always" to each other at least four million times this year. They continue to watch the show. It's pretty gross. Isaac squeezes Monica's breast like a clown horn.
He's gotta be hurting her boob.
Let's watch a movie. Hazel is again surprised.
Oh. Um. Uh...  Sure. Yeah. I'm... pretty free this
No I mean now.
What?
Hmm?
What do you mean "now?"
I've got a car. He shrugs. Hazel has never seen someone so confident.
You could be an axe murderer.
There is that possibility.
Oh my god. Oh. My. God. You're kidding right?  You just ruined the whole thing!
Whole thing?
What, you think that's cool? Oh you idiot! There's always a hamartia, isn't there? And yours is - even though you had FREAKING CANCER you give money to a corporation for the chance to acquire EVEN MORE CANCER!? Ugh. And you were doing so well. As she rants, Gus continues to look at her with that smile on his face. Hazel does not find it so amusing.
Let me tell you... not being able to breathe? Sucks. Totally sucks.
Hamartia? Hazel folds her arms and turns away from him.
A fatal flaw. Gus takes a beat and then moves to face her, the smile still etched on his face.
They don't hurt you unless you light them.
Sorry?
I've never lit one. Hazel turns back to him.
It's a metaphor. See? You put the thing that kills you between your teeth. But you don't give it the power to do the killing. Hazel is floored. And impressed.
Metaphor. Gus holds her gaze. And it's at this point Frannie pulls up.
Hi sweetheart. Ready for some "Model?"
Can't tonight.  I've made plans with Augustus Waters. And with that, she walks off. Frannie looks at the boy with the cigarette in his mouth. This could be trouble. Or awesome. Or both. And we CUT TO:
I failed the test a couple times.
You don't say.
Most amputees can drive with no problem but... yeah. Not me.
I'm surprised you have a license.
Tell me about it! Another brake forces Hazel against the seat belt.
The fourth time I took the test... it was going about how this is going... and when it was over, the instructor looks at me and goes, "your driving, while unpleasant... is not technically unsafe."
Aha. Cancer perk.
Total cancer perk. A few beats of silence.
So what happened to you? Hazel takes a deep breath. She's told this story before but somehow this seems different.
I was 13 when they found it. And as she speaks, we see it unfold. SMASH CUT TO:
Stage IV thyroid cancer.
I had surgery first.
- Radiation treatment.
Then Radiation... - Having her head shaved by Frannie.
Then Chemo... - With a PICC line in a chemo chair.
All of which worked for a while. - A RADIOLOGIST looks at an X-ray. He's not pleased.
And then stopped working. - 14-Year Old Hazel lies in bed, struggling to breathe. Frannie runs her fingers through her hair. Dad calls 9-1-1.
And then my lungs started filling up with water. - In the ICU, her parents standing over her.
That should have been the end.
 Are you ready, sweetie? 14-Year Old Hazel nods. Michael can't keep it together any longer. He completely breaks down.
But it wasn't.
The antibiotics kicked in. They drained the fluid from my lungs. And in time I got better. Stronger.
I even found myself in an experimental trial. You know the ones that are famous in the Republic of Cancervania for not working. - A SECOND RADIOLOGIST examines a second X-ray.
It's called Phalanxifor. Didn't work in over 70 percent of patients but, for some reason... The Radiologist looks surprised.
...it worked in me. They called it "The Miracle." And finally, BACK TO:
Tumors shrank, my mets have hardly grown since...
Of course my lungs still suck but, theoretically, they could continue to suck in just this way for, I dunno, a while maybe.
Wow.
Yeah.
So are you back in school or...?
Can't.
Why not?
Got my GED.
A college girl! Well that explains the aura of sophistication... He smiles at her. She smiles back. Shoves his upper arm playfully. They're easing into each other. Eventually Gus's car pulls into his driveway.
We're here. He's as good at parking as he is at driving. CUT TO:
My parents call them "encouragements."  Don't ask. Gus's MOM and DAD  are in the kitchen making dinner.
Hey guys.
Augustus, hi. New friend?
This is Hazel Grace.
It's just... Hazel.
How's it going, Just Hazel?
Nice to meet you! They walk down the carpeted stairs - Gus having an easier time with his one leg than Hazel is with her oxygen tank and weak lungs. Eventually they arrive at Gus's basement bedroom. There's a TV with a video game console, a few band posters, and a whole host of basketball memorabilia (autographed sneakers, school trophies, framed images etc.) Gus sees her looking at them.
I used to play.
Must have been pretty good.
These are mine. And these. The rest of it's just cancer perks. Gus grabs a DVD from his stack of DVDs. Hazel sits down on the bed, her breathing noticeably heavier.
Need to sit. Gus sits down next to her on the bed.
Don't get any ideas.  All that standing... and stairs... and then more standing... lotta standing for me.
I understand.
I'll be fine in a minute. Unless I faint. I'm a bit of a Victorian lady, fainting-wise. Gus smiles. He waits for her breathing to slow down. In time:
You ok? Hazel nods, smiles.
So what's your story?
I already told you my story. I was
Not your cancer story. Your story. Interests, hobbies, passions, weird fetishes...
Um...
Don't tell me you're one of those people who becomes their disease.
No. I'm just... I don't know... un- extraordinary.
I reject that out of hand.  Think of something you love. First thing that comes to mind.
"An Imperial Affliction."
Ok. What's that?
It's a novel. My favorite novel.
Does it have zombies?
Stormtroopers.
Seriously?
Sounds horrible.
It's not, it's... kind of my bible actually.
Interesting. What's it about?
Cancer.  But not in that way, trust me. The guy who wrote it, Peter Van Houten, he's... well, the only person I've ever come across who seems to a) understand what it's like to be dying and b) not have died.
... all I ask is that you read this brilliant and haunting novelization of my favorite video game. Hazel looks at the slim, ridiculous novella. She laughs. She's adorable when she laughs. She takes the book from him and as she does, their hands get tangled together for a brief, charged moment.
Your hands are cold.
Not so much cold as under- oxygenated.
Ooh Hazel Grace...
That's different. Hazel shrugs. Frannie looks intrigued.
Did he give it to you?
By "it" do you mean herpes? Frannie rolls her eyes. Hazel's phone buzzes. She excitedly checks it - only to be disappointed. Frannie notices.
I'm sure he'll call, don't worry.
I'm not worried. Please. It's not like I'm waiting for him to call or anything. I just... we hung out. No big deal. Frannie says nothing to that. Her silence says it all. Hazel rolls her eyes. CUT TO:
Would you like to be excused?
Hazel Grace.
Welcome to the sweet torture of reading "An Imperial --" At which point she hears a loud WAIL coming from the other end of the phone.
What the -- are you ok?
Me? Yeah. I'm excellent. INTERCUT between Hazel on the patio and:
Isaac! Focus. On. Me. Hazel waits a few beats for Gus to come back on. Finally:
 Isaac, Hazel from Support Group is coming downstairs. Gus waits for a response. None comes. He gestures for her to follow him into the room. Before he does:
A gentle reminder: Isaac is in the midst of a psychotic episode.
How ya doing Isaac? Again, no response. Hazel looks to Gus for an explanation.
Seems Isaac and Monica are no longer a going concern.
Oh I'm sorry.
He just wants to cry and play video games.
Fair enough.
It doesn't hurt to talk to him, however. If you have any sage words of feminine advice...
I actually think his response is appropriate.
"Pain demands to be felt."
 You're quoting my book! Gus winks at her. At which point, Isaac lets out another howl. Gus gestures for Hazel to sit. The two of them flank Isaac. He finally speaks.
She didn't want to do it after the surgery. Said she couldn't handle it. I'm about to lose my eyesight and she can't handle it. Hazel rubs his shoulder in sympathy.
I kept saying "always" to her. Always, always, always. And she just kept talking over me and not saying it back. It was like I was already gone, you know? "Always" was a promise! You can't break promises.
Sometimes people don't understand the promises they're making when they make them.
Right, sure, but you keep the promise anyway. That's what love is. Love is keeping the promise anyway.
That could be an "encouragement." It's silent for a beat. And then Isaac stands up, a funny look on his face.
Isaac...? Suddenly Isaac starts kicking his chair across the room.
Here we go... The chair lands against the bed. Gus hands Isaac something else to throw, a pillow. Isaac grabs the pillow and slams it against the wall. He dives on it and beings pummeling the pillow like a maniac.
That's it! Punch that thing. And so he does. As he continues to, Gus looks at Hazel, cigarette dangling from his mouth.
I've been wanting to call you on a nearly minutely basis but I have been waiting until I could form a coherent thought in re: "An Imperial Affliction."
I know, right?
The only problem is the ending.
It is rather abrupt.
It's torture! I mean, I totally get that she died or whatever - Anna. But there is an unwritten contract between author and reader and I think ending your book in the middle of a sentence kind of violates that contract.
But that's part of what I like about it. It portrays death truthfully. You die in the middle of your life, in the middle of a sentence. But I do - God, I do want to know what happens to everyone else.
Yeah like her Mom.
The Dutch Tulip Man...
Sysiphus the Hamster... Hazel beams. Gus totally gets the book. A bond between them.
Have you tried contacting this... Peter Van Houten?
I've written letters. He's never responded. Apparently he moved to Amsterdam, became a recluse. Hasn't published anything. Doesn't do interviews.
Sad.
Pillows don't break. Gus hands Isaac one of his basketball TROPHIES.
You need to break something. Isaac looks at it, then back to Gus as if asking permission. Gus nods. Isaac holds it over his head and SMASH! The trophy breaks into a million pieces. Isaac almost smiles. Gus hands him another.
Go to town, my friend. And Isaac does. Smashing them one by one. Hazel looks at Gus.
I've been looking for a way to tell my Dad that I kinda hate basketball. Think maybe we've found it. Isaac grabs more of the TROPHIES, smashing them to pieces. Gus and Hazel enjoy the spectacle. When there are none left Isaac is panting, standing over the bronze carnage.
Feel better? Isaac thinks about it. Shakes his head no. Gus puts his arm around him but looks at Hazel.
That's the thing about pain... it demands to be felt. Hazel smiles. And on her face, we CUT TO:
Dr. Maria called today. The PET Scan is set for the eighth. Hazel nods. This could be a source of worry but she's not going to think about that right now. She's upbeat. And she's actually eating, which her parents can't help but notice. Frannie and Michael look at one another, pleased.
I told you Support Group was a good idea. Hazel's phone buzzes. "Augustus." She looks to her parents.
By all means.
Hazel Grace.
Hello Augustus.
So I read it again. And I just kept feeling like... like it was a gift. Like you'd given me something important.
On the other hand... we need closure, don't we?
What we need is a sequel.
Yes. We need to know what happens to Anna's family after she dies.
That's what I kept asking Van Houten for in my letters.
But he never wrote back.
That's correct.
Because he's a recluse.
Yeee-up.
Utterly unreachable.
Unfortunately so. Gus clears his throat, smiles. Hazel waits.
"Dear Mr. Waters... I am writing to thank you for your electronic correspondence received this 6th of April. Hazel sits up. Could it be...?
"I am grateful to anyone who sets aside the time to read my book..."
Augustus!?
I found his assistant. I emailed her. She must have forwarded it to him.  Shall I continue?
Keep reading, keep reading!
"I am particularly indebted to you, sir, both for your kind words about `An Imperial Affliction' and for taking the time to tell me that the book, and here I quote you directly, `meant a great deal' to you." Hazel pays attention to every word.
"To answer your question: No, I have not written anything else, nor will I. I do not feel that continuing to share my thoughts with readers would benefit either them or me. However thank you again for your generous email. Yours most sincerely, Peter Van Houten.
You're making this up?
Hazel Grace, could I, with my meager intellectual capabilities, make up a letter from the great Peter Van Houten?
Holy hell.
Indeed.
Can I... would you mind...
"Dear Mr. Peter Van Houten, my name is Hazel Grace Lancaster. My friend Augustus Waters, who read your book - at my recommendation - just received an email from you at this address. I hope you will not mind that he shared that email with me."
"I was wondering if you wouldn't mind answering a few questions I have about what happens after the end of the book. Specifically, the
- In his kitchen, laughing, trying to make omelettes.
"Does Anna's Mom marry the Dutch Tulip Man; is the Dutch Tulip Man up to something - or is he just misunderstood? What happens to Anna's friends? - Watching TV. Their bodies almost touching. But not quite.
Lastly, I was hoping you could shed some light on Sisyphus the Hamster. These questions have haunted me for years. And I don't know how long I have left to get answers to them." And finally, back in Hazel's bedroom. She finishes reading this letter into the phone.
"I know these are not important literary questions and that your book is full of important literary questions, but I would just really like to know." INTERCUT w/ Gus bouncing a ball against the wall, listening.
 "And of course, if ever you do decide to write anything else, even if you don't want to publish it, I'd love to read it. Frankly, I'd read your grocery lists. Yours with great admiration, Hazel Grace Lancaster. Age 16."
Not bad.
You think?
Bit pretentious. But then again, Van Houten uses words like "tendentious" and... "bacchanalia" so I think he'll like it. Hazel smiles, looks at a clock.
Is it really almost 1?
Guess so.
I gotta get to sleep.
Ok...
Ok... Neither one of them want to hang up the phone.
Ok...
Ok... They both laugh at this.
Perhaps "ok" will be our "always." Hazel smiles.
Ok.
Ok.
Ok. Gus hangs up. We stay with Hazel. Is it really possible this Beautiful Boy likes her? She thinks about it. She's not convinced. CUT TO:
She hasn't even visited. Fourteen months we were together. What kind of person...
You'll get over her Isaac. Just takes a little time. You'll see. The Nurse exits the room.
Is she gone?
Yeah.
Did she really just say "you'll see?"
 Qualities of a Good Nurse. Go.
Doesn't pun your disability.
Gets blood on the first try.
That is huge. I mean, seriously, is this my freakin' arm or a dartboard? Three - no condescending voice.
 "I'm gonna stab you with this needle now, so there might be a little ouchie." They laugh and then lapse into silence for a moment.
You doing alright, Isaac?
I don't know. To be honest, I think a hell of a lot more about Monica than my eye. Is that crazy? That's crazy.
It's a little crazy.
But I believe in love, you know? I don't believe that everybody gets to keep their eyes or not get sick or whatever, but everybody should have true love. Don't you think? Hazel thinks about it as Isaac presses the button on his pain pump, self-administering morphine.
Gus was here earlier.
 Was he? Isaac exhales as the pain pump starts to kick in.
Mmm... that's better.
The pain?  Good. Good, Isaac.  What about Gus? But Isaac is already asleep. Whatever he was going to say about Gus is gone. Hazel nods, pats his hand. CUT TO:
Holy shit!
"Should ever you find yourself in Amsterdam, do pay a visit at your leisure. Yours most sincerely, Peter Van Houten" Son of a - WHAT
What's wrong?!
 Nothing. Sorry.
Everything! Look! Hazel shows Frannie the note. Frannie reads it.
Can we go to Amsterdam? Please? Frannie thinks about how to respond for a beat.
Hazel, I... I love you and... you know I'd do anything for you, but we don't...
I mean, I could talk to your father
Mom, no. Please. Don't do anything. Forget I mentioned it. A beat between them. Frannie walks out, sadly. Hazel sits on the bed, totally bummed now for two reasons.
Guilt is definitely a side effect of cancer.
Just use your wish.
I've used it already. Pre- "Miracle."
What'd you do? Hazel doesn't want to say. Gus realizes.
Not Disney.
I was 13...
Tell me you did not go to Disney World.  Hazel Grace! You did not use your one dying Wish to go to Disney World!
 Oh my God!
That is the saddest thing I've ever heard!
I met Goofy...
Now I'm embarrassed.
Why are you embarrassed?
How can I have a crush on a girl with such cliche wishes?
Wait, what? The word "crush" has taken Hazel totally by surprise.
What? She looks at him. A beat. She quickly looks away, blushing. Gus continues on about Disney but all Hazel can think about is "CRUSH". She tries not to seem too excited. CUT TO:
Is that a Rik Smits jersey?
It is indeed.
Gus?
Hi Hazel.
Something to drink?
I'm great Mrs. Lancaster.
You're a survivor yourself?
 Didn't cut this fella off for the hell of it. Though it is an excellent weight-loss strategy. Legs are heavy!
How's your health now?
N-E-C for fourteen months.
That's fantastic.
I'm very lucky. ANGLE ON Hazel, checking herself out in the mirror. Seems to like what she sees a lot more than before. BACK ON Gus and Michael, downstairs:
Son, you have to understand... Hazel's still pretty sick. She will be the rest of her life. ANGLE on Hazel, who can hear all of this. She stops what she's doing and listens.
She'll want to keep up with you - she's that kind of girl - but the truth is, her lungs --
You ready Gus? Hazel appears, silencing her Father mid-sentence. CUT TO:
Is this where you bring all your romantic conquests?
Every last one.
You're not a virgin.  Are you really? Gus picks a STICK up from the dirt. Draws a BIG CIRCLE in it.
See this? This circle is virgins... Now Gus draws a much smaller circle inside that circle.
And this... is 17 year old dudes with one leg. Hazel laughs. Point made. He grabs her hand, helps her walk up a tiny hill. Once up there, Gus lays a blanket on the ground. They sit, looking out over a rather odd SCULPTURE - a set of GIANT WHITE BONES where children can jump and play.
He sounds Dutch.
And he is. Much like Rik Smits. And tulips. Hazel raises an eyebrow at Gus. He's sure taking this Amsterdam/Dutch thing pretty far. He removes some sandwiches and orange juice out of a basket.
Sandwich?
Let me guess --
How cool is that? A skeleton being used as a playground.
You do love your symbols.
Speaking of which... Gus stands up, takes a cigarette, puts it in his mouth. He clears his throat.
You're probably wondering why you're sitting here eating a bad cheese sandwich and drinking orange juice with a guy in a Rik Smits jersey.
It has crossed my mind.
Hazel Grace, like so many before you - and I say this with great affection - you spent your Wish... moronically.
I was thir--
Hush! I'm in the midst of a grand soliloquy here.
Sorry. Please, continue...
You were young. Impressionable. The Grim Reaper staring you in the face. And the fear of dying with your one true Wish left ungranted led you to rush into making one you didn't really want, for how could little Hazel Grace, having never read "An Imperial Affliction" ever know that her one TRUE wish was to visit Mr. Peter Van Houten in his Amsterdamian exile. Hazel nods in agreement.
If you were smart, you would have saved your wish til the time in your life when you really knew your true self.
But I... didn't save it. Gus smiles.
Good thing I saved mine. Hazel cocks her head to one side. What is he talking about?
Got it in exchange for the leg.
Are you saying --
I'm not gonna give you my Wish or anything. But I too have an interest in meeting Peter Van Houten and it wouldn't make much sense to meet him without the girl who introduced me to his book, now would it?  I talked to the Genies and they're in total agreement.
Wait a minute.
Cause I'd totally kiss you either way. And kiss him she does. He's surprised. And when it's over, they sit back, look at one another. A magic moment.
Seriously... why are you doing this?
Because Hazel Grace... I found my Wish. And Hazel is beyond touched. We hear:
Are you out of your mind?
It's too much, Haze. We can't accept something like that from a virtual stranger.
He's not a stranger.
Really?
Don't be gross.
It's still "no," I'm afraid.
Can we at least ask Dr. Maria?
That's out of the question.
You said the PET scan was encouraging!
The PET scan is encouraging. We just don't know how long it'll stay that way. What if you get sick in a foreign country?
They have doctors in Amsterdam. And cancer. Someone will know what to do.
Be that as it may, without someone familiar with your particular case, I can't --
 So you'll come too.
What?
The Genies can hook it up. They're loaded.
You've never been to Amsterdam, have you Mom? And judging from her face, seems she'd kinda like to. Dr. Maria looks at Frannie, shrugs - kid's got a point. Hazel smiles. And on that smile, we SMASH CUT TO:
Over which, we HEAR:
And then this happened.
People talk about the courage of cancer patients. And I do not deny that courage... He leaves the room to do so and Fran stays behind, rocking with her daughter, promising her it'll all be ok. Whatever nightmare this is, it's going to end. CUT TO:
I'd been poked and stabbed and poisoned for years and still I trod on.
But make no mistake... The doctors rally to assist the screaming, crying child. She's wheeled away from her family who can only watch. We stay with her and WE HEAR:
In that moment I would have been very, very happy to die.
Hello.
Hi.
You're ok, Hazel. Even Hazel seems surprised by that.
Would you like to see your parents? Hazel nods. The Nurse goes to get them. Soon they come bounding in, crying and kissing her repeatedly. So much relief. CUT TO: LATER. Hazel's bed has been raised up so she can talk to her parents "comfortably."
They thought it was a brain tumor.
It wasn't - thank god --
So what happened?
The usual. Fluid in the lungs, preventing oxygenation. They put that in... There's a TUBE in Hazel's side draining fluid into a plastic bladder that hangs off her bed.
Drained a liter and a half last night. 
The good news is... no tumor growth. No new tumors in your body. Hazel nods. That is a relief.
We're all so relieved. Frannie embraces her daughter.
This is just a thing Hazel. It's a thing we can live with. Hazel nods again. Only in the universe of Hazel Grace Lancaster is something like this just a thing. Meanwhile:
Mr. Lancaster! How's she doing?
Better, thank you. Much better. Gus nods, as relieved as the rest of them.
They won't let me in. Family only.
I'm sorry --
No I get it. Will you just... will you tell her I was here?
Of course I will. Gus smiles. And sits back down. Though he won't get to see her, he still wants to stay.
Gus. Michael really likes this kid.
Why don't you go home, get some rest? Gus looks up. That might be for the best. CUT TO:
The great news is... Phalanxifor continues to control your tumor growth.
Um, I feel like I'm not the most qualified person to answer that.
I was talking to Dr. Simmons. DR. SIMMONS  speaks next.
It's a strange case. Normally the tumors start resisting the treatment. But that hasn't happened here - yet. Hazel hears the "yet" the loudest.
Unfortunately, the drug may be worsening the edema.
But if we stopped it entirely, we're likely to face even graver dangers.
So we're gonna do nothing?
That's what we have to decide. The truth is... very few people have been on Phalanxifor as long as Hazel has. We don't really know the long term effects. That comforts no one.
Can't I just get like a lung transplant or something? The Doctors look at one another like "who wants to take that one?" Eventually:
You would not be considered a... strong candidate for a transplant. Hazel takes that in, nods, tries to pretend it didn't bother her. Sensitive Michael on the other hand starts to cry a little bit. He grabs Frannie's hand.
We're trying to prevent endothelial growth while at the same time preventing immunosorbent... As Dr. Simmons drones on with some cancer gobbledygook, Hazel's eyes remain firmly fixed on her parents. She hates what she's doing to them. And seeing them holding hands, crying but trying not to cry - it jogs a memory. CUT TO:
 Are you ready, sweetie? 13-year old Hazel nods. The doctors get to work. The anaesthetic takes hold and Hazel goes under. But not enough. Cause she totally hears her mother say:
I won't be a mom anymore.
I have a question.
Yes Hazel.
Can I still go to Amsterdam? Dr. Simmons can't help himself. He laughs. Everyone looks at him. He clears his throat.
That would not be wise at this juncture.
Why not?
Excuse me?
Why not, Dr. Simmons?
The doctors are trying to be delicate here.
It would... increase some risks --
So does going to the mall --
Yes but an airplane?
They have oxygen on airplanes.
It's my life, right?
You're Stage IV --
I have this opportunity I may never have again. If the medicine's working, I don't see why --
Because, Hazel.
I'm sorry. Everyone feels horrible now. Dr. Maria, Frannie and Michael, and even Hazel. This meeting couldn't have gone worse. And we
We'll be right outside. Hazel nods. Her phone buzzes. She looks at it. A text from Gus that reads: "ok?" Hazel looks at it. And she doesn't write back. CUT TO:
Gus again. Hazel thinks about it - silently shakes her head, no. Michael says into the phone.
I'm sorry Gus, she's asleep. Hazel stands and goes into her bedroom, clearly depressed.
And then a second text. She looks at it. "The silence is deafening." She puts the phone back down. Hazel's heart breaks. She can't take it anymore. She picks the phone back up. She texts the following: "I don't know if you'll understand this but I can't see you anymore. I mean I want to. I just..." She thinks about the rest. She writes: "I'm a grenade." She sends the text. Waits. And then there's more to say. She sends a second text. "When I look at you, all I can see is what I'm going to put you through. I can't have that. I'm sorry." She sends that text. Waits. He writes back. "Ok." Hazel reads it. Writes back: "Ok." A beat. Gus responds: "oh my god, stop flirting with me!" Hazel smiles - she can't help herself! - but she must. She gets her emotions in check. Puts the phone away. CUT TO:
Then she wipes the tears. Becomes strong again. And makes a decision. Hazel dials her phone. We hear:
Hazel Grace!
Hi Augustus.
Are you crying, Hazel Grace?
Kind of.
What's the matter?
I don't know. I want to go to Amsterdam. And I want him to tell us what happens after the book and I don't want my particular life and also the sky is making me sad and there's this old swing set that my Dad made for me when I was a kid. It's just... everything. Hazel is on the verge of losing it again. A few beats of silence pass by.
I demand to see this swing set of tears. Hazel can't help but smile and we CUT TO: LATER. Same backyard - only now Hazel is with Gus. Which makes everything better. They both look at the swing set.
I see your point.
Thanks for coming over.
You do realize... trying to keep your distance from me will in no way lessen my affection for you. Hazel says nothing.
All efforts to save me from you will fail. Hazel looks at him. He's sure not making this easy.
Is this about Amsterdam? Cause we
It's not about Amsterdam. It's about me. It's about...
Grenades. Hazel nods.
I get it. One day you're going to explode in a huge ball of fire and everyone close to you will die in your wake.
Exactly.
There's already two people in your life you're going to destroy. Why add a third to that list. Am I right?
We have got to do something about this frigging swing set.
"Desperately Lonely Swing Set Needs Loving Home."
"Lonely, Vaguely Pedophilic Swing Set Seeks Butts of Children." Gus laughs.
No? Gus laughs harder. Hazel laughs with him.
That's why. Hazel looks at him, not understanding.
In case you were wondering... that's why I like you.  You're so busy being you that you have no idea how utterly unprecedented you are. Hazel absorbs that. Her feelings for this boy in a tangle.
Friendly. She playfully elbows him away.
Do you like him?
Of course I like him.
But you don't want to hook up with him? Hazel doesn't know what she wants.
It's complicated.
"Dear Hazel, I have received word via the Genies that you will be visiting us with Augustus Waters and your mother beginning on the 4th. A week away! Peter and I are delighted and cannot wait to -- Hazel is confused. She stands and walks into the hallway.
Mom? No response.
Mom!
Frannie races out of her room in a towel, dripping wet.
What is it, what's wrong?!
Sorry, I... I didn't know you were in the shower.
Did you ever call the Genies to tell them the trip is off? I just got an email from Peter Van Houton's assistant. She still thinks we're coming. Frannie purses her lips and squints past Hazel. Clearly unsure what to say.
What? Frannie can't keep a straight face.
I'm not supposed to tell you until your father gets home.
 Really...
Dr. Maria called last night and made a convincing case that you need to live --
I'm getting back in the tub now. When she leaves Hazel grabs her cell phone. ANGLE ON IT. Hazel sends Gus the following text: "STILL FREE MAY 3? :-)" A moment later Gus responds: "EVERYTHING'S COMING UP WATERS!" Hazel is over the moon with excitement. She smiles, then tries to calm herself, knowing it's the best thing.
 One week, lungs. Keep your shit together one more week...
Amsterdam!
Amsterdam! And a moment later Michael joins them.
Amsterdam! They're all going crazy with excitement! CUT TO:
For what? Michael lets go of her and wipes away his tears. They look at each other. Unable to help himself, he grabs her for another hug. Hazel lets him, laughing.
Mom?
We can't eavesdrop, Hazel. Back at the car, far out of earshot, they wait. Hazel unsure what that was about. Frannie politely honks the horn. A moment later Gus emerges from the house, smiling. A travel bag over his shoulder and a cigarette dangling from his lips.
Ok...?
Ok.
Ok. Frannie doesn't know what to make of any of that. She just says, when they stop and look at her:
Amsterdam!
 Amsterdam!
Oh that's not necessary. But they give up their seats anyway. Hazel and Gus take them. We see various Passengers watching. Hazel ignores the attention until a LITTLE GIRL  appears.
What's in your nose?
It's called a Cannula. These tubes give me oxygen and help me breathe. The GIRL'S MOTHER swoops in, a little frantic.
Jackie... Oh, I'm sorry.
Would they help me breathe too?
I dunno. Wanna try? Hazel removes her cannula and let's the Little Girl try it.
Tickles.
Right?
I think I'm breathing better.
Well... I'd love to give you my cannula but... I kinda really need the help. The Little Girl nods, hands it back to Hazel, who quickly reattaches it.
Thanks for letting me try it. They smile at each other before the Little Girl walks back to her family. She waves. Hazel waves back.
We will now begin pre-boarding Flight 144 to Amsterdam. For those passengers in need of extra assistance...
I think that's us.
Have you never been on a plane before? Gus shakes his head, he has not. And he's nervous. He pulls a cigarette out of his pocket and puts it in his mouth. Within seconds a FLIGHT ATTENDANT rushes over.
Sir, you can't smoke on this plane. Or... any plane.
 I don't smoke. The Flight Attendant shoots him a look.
It's a metaphor. He puts the killing thing in his mouth but doesn't give it the power to kill him.
"Flight attendants, prepare for departure." The engines roar to life and the plane accelerates towards take off. Gus is getting more worried by the second. He grabs the arm rest, his eyes wide.
Ok? Gus doesn't say it back. Hazel laughs.
This is what it feels like to ride in a car with you. Gus grabs Hazel's hand as the plane lifts off. He looks out the window - they're flying! - and then back to Hazel.
We're flying! Look! Hazel smiles at his enthusiasm.
Holy -- look at that?! NOTHING HAS
(not looking up from her
Just so you know, I'm right here. Sitting next to you. Your mother.
We're just friends, Mom.
She is. I'm not. Hazel shoots him a look. Gus shrugs - "what, it's the truth." Hazel just shakes her head. CUT TO: LATER. Mid-flight, the plane is dark, Frannie's asleep. Hazel and Gus watch the same gory action movie. Actually, he watches the movie. She just watches him watch it. He watches it with gusto. Hazel continues to watch him. Try as she might, she's falling in love. CUT TO: SFX: the PLANE touching down. CUT TO:
Americans?
We're from Indiana.
Indiana. They steal from the Indians but the keep the name, yes? Hazel and Gus share a look.
Something like that. Meanwhile, the landscape outside is flat and dusty, with dirt tracks and the occasional concrete building. In other words, it looks more like Indianapolis than Holland.
 This is Amsterdam?
Yes and no. Amsterdam is like the rings of a tree. It gets older as you get closer to the center. Soon enough, the cab takes an off-ramp and turns a corner and suddenly, it's as if they're transported - not only to another universe but to another time as well. We see MULTI-COLORED ROW HOUSES lined on both sides of a windy CANAL. HOUSEBOATS float against the edges and everyone rides BICYCLES down cobblestone streets. They're astounded.
I'll be right down the hall. Hazel nods, already drifting off to sleep. CUT TO:
Good morning.
Actually, it's five o'clock.
How was the park?
Never made it.
Mom!
What? I like watching you sleep. Hazel shoots Frannie a look. Even in an exotic city, her Mom still can't enjoy herself.
I promise I'll do crazy Mom stuff tonight while you and Gus are at dinner.
What do you mean?
You have reservations at a place called Oranjee. Mr. Van Houten set it up. Very fancy according to the Book. And romantic.
Mom...
I'm just saying...
A 16 year old girl running free with an older boy on the streets of a foreign city famous for its vice and debauchery... is totally cool with you. Is that what you're saying?
 Let's get you dressed! Hazel just shakes her head. CUT TO:
 Hazel! Gus is here.
Thank you ma'am. A few beats later Hazel emerges from the bathroom. She wears a knee-length, pale blue SUNDRESS. And she looks...
Wow.
You look gorgeous. Gus offers Hazel his arm. She takes it. They're ready to go.
Your table, Mr. And Mrs. Waters. Gus pulls out Hazel's chair for her. A WAITER brings them a bottle of CHAMPAGNE as they sit.
The champagne is our gift. Hazel and Gus look at each other. Is this a dream? The champagne is poured and Gus raises his glass.
Ok. Hazel raises hers.
Ok. They clink glasses and sip.
Wow that's good.
Do you know what Dom Perignon said after he invented champagne?
Welcome to Oranjee. Would you like a menu or will you have the chef's choice? Gus looks at Hazel. She shrugs.
The chef's choice sounds lovely.  And can we get more of this?
We have bottled all the stars for you this evening, my young friends. The Waiter leaves. Hazel and Gus look at each other.
Thank you for coming to Amsterdam.
Thank you for letting me hijack your wish.
Thank you for wearing that dress which is like whoa. Hazel shakes her head, trying not to smile but unable not to. The Waiter brings two more glasses of champagne and a plate:
Belgian white asparagus with a lavender infusion. Hazel takes a bite.
Oh my god.
Yeah? Gus takes a bite.
I mean...
That is just...
There are no words. Meanwhile, down on the water a BOAT passes, filled with merry, drinking LOCALS. One of them raises a glass to them and says something in Dutch.
She says, "the beautiful couple is beautiful!"
I want this dragon carrot risotto to become a person so I can take it to Vegas and marry it. Hazel leans back in her chair, in need of a breather.
I like your suit.
Thanks. First time wearing it.
That isn't the suit you wear to funerals?
Oh no. That one's not nearly this nice.  When I first found out I was sick - I mean, they told me I had like an 85% chance to be cancer-free. Great odds, sure. But that meant a year of torture, the loss of my leg, and still a 15% chance it might fail.
It's your death suit.
That's what it is.
I have one of those. Bought it for my 15th birthday. Don't think I'd wear it on a date, though.
Are we on a date?
 Watch it. Gus winks. CUT TO: LATER. Dessert on the table. As they euphorically eat:
God?
Maybe.
Angels?
Undecided.
Afterlife?
No. Well...
Absolutely.
Really?
Oh for sure. I mean, not like a heaven where you ride unicorns, play harps, and live in a mansion made of clouds but, yeah, I believe in something. Hazel is surprised.
Something becomes of us. It has to. Otherwise what's the point?
Maybe there is no point.
I refuse to accept that.
I hope you're right.
I'm in love with you.
You heard me.
I'm in love with you. And I know that love is just a shout into the void, and that oblivion is inevitable, and that we're all doomed and that there will come a day when all our labor has been returned to dust, and I know the sun will swallow the only earth we'll ever have, and I am in love with you.  Sorry. At which point, the Waiter reappears.
More stars? Hazel is still too speechless to respond, her eyes fixed on Gus. Eventually Gus answers for them.
Just the check, please.
No, sir.
I really don't get that shirt. Hazel wears a screen print t-shirt of Magritte's "Ceci N'est Pas Une Pipe." (A painting of a pipe with words below that mean "This is not a pipe.")
Van Houten will get it. Trust me. There are like fifty Magritte references in "Imperial Affliction."
Exactly.
But it is a pipe.
No it's not. It's a drawing of a pipe. See?
When did you get so grown up? I feel like it was yesterday I was telling 8-year old Hazel why the sky was blue. You thought I was a genius back then.
Why is the sky blue?
Who's ready for some answers!
I'm so excited I can barely breathe.
As opposed to other days...? She playfully hits him. He takes her arm, picks up the oxygen tank, and up they go towards his front door. As they approach, there's a noticeable NOISE coming from inside the house. It's the deep thump of a BASS BEAT. Loud. Like, obnoxiously loud. Hazel grabs the brass ornament and knocks. They wait. There's no response.
Maybe he can't hear over the music? Gus tries again, this time with more force. Still nothing. He tries a third time. Finally, the music stops. They wait. Still excited. A moment later the door swings open. It's a MAN IN PAJAMAS , with a huge potbelly, thinning hair, and a week-old beard. All he says is:
Mr. Van Houten? At which point, the Pajama Man slams the door in their faces. Hazel and Gus are too stunned to react. Through the closed door, they hear this:
Are they here, Peter? So it is PETER VAN HOUTEN. Gus and Hazel can't believe it.
They are Augustus and Hazel, the young fans with whom you've been corresponding. Gus and Hazel smile at hearing their names. Perhaps this will help things take a turn for the better.
You invited them, remember?
I will not do this Peter. Be nice. At which point, the door opens - opened by the Woman whose voice they'd been hearing - Van Houten's assistant LIDEWIJ . She virtually shoves Van Houten towards a stunned Gus and Hazel. And they are again face-to-face with Van Houten. One beat, two beats. No one knows what to say. Finally:
Which of you is Augustus Waters? Gus raises his hand tentatively. Van Houten sizes them up. Without another word, he turns and walks inside - at least this time, leaving the door ajar.
Please. I am sorry. Come in. Hazel and Gus share one more awkward glance before Gus takes a step. Hazel follows. They walk:
Trash?
Fan mail. 18 years worth. He never opens it. Van Houten kicks his feet up on the ottoman and crosses his slippers. He motions for them to sit on the couch.
Yours are the first missives to which I've replied and look where that got me. Hazel and Gus take their seats.
Scotch?
Um, no thanks.
Augustus Waters?
It's 11am.
Just me then, Lidewij. Scotch and soda.
Perhaps some breakfast first Peter?
She thinks I have a drinking problem.
I also think the Earth is round. Nevertheless, Lidewij pours Peter half a glass and hands it to him. He takes a sip, then sits up straight.
So you like my book.
Yes. We - well, Augustus, he made meeting you his Wish so that we could come here and talk to you. Van Houten says nothing. Takes a long pull on his drink.
Did you dress like her on purpose?
 Kinda.
I do not have a drinking problem. I have a Churchillian relationship with alcohol: I can crack jokes and govern England and do anything I want to do. Except not drink. He glances over at Lidewij, who dutifully refills his glass.
Incidentally, thank you for dinner last night.
It was our pleasure.
We have some questions --
Uh-huh...
About what happens, you know... after... the end of your book. Specifically to those who Anna leaves behind. Like her Mom, the Dutch Tulip Man, Sisy --
I would say... limited?
But presumably you know Afasi Och Filthy's seminal album "Flacken."
Um...
Lidewij! Play `Bomfalleralla' immediately.
 I'm sorry, sir. We don't speak Swedish.
Are you messing with us?
Pardon?
Is this some kind of performance?
Rudolf Otto said that if you had not encountered the numinous then his work was not for you. And I say to you, my friends, if you cannot hear Afasi Och Filthy's bravadic response to fearfulness, then my work is not for you. Hazel is really getting worried at this point. They came all this way for this?
So anyway... when the book ends, Anna's mom --
(raising a hand to silence
Let us imagine that you are racing a tortoise. Hazel and Gus fidget in their seats. Lidewij frowns, clearly feeling bad for them. Van Houten continues.
The tortoise has a ten yard head start. In the time it takes you to run ten yards, the tortoise has moved maybe one yard. And so on, forever.
You are faster than the tortoise but you can never catch him, you see, you can only decrease his lead. Now certainly you can run past the tortoise as long as you don't contemplate the mechanics involved but the question of how turns out to be so complicated that no one really solved it until Cantor's proof that some infinities are bigger than other infinities. Hazel and Gus have no idea how to respond.
I assume that answers your questions.
And yet you seemed so intelligent in print, Mr. Waters.  Must be all that cancer in your brain.
Peter! Gus could throw a punch right now. Hazel tries to calm the situation.
Can we please, maybe, talk about Anna for a sec? I mean, I understand that the story ends mid- sentence because she dies or she becomes too sick to continue --
I'm not interested in talking about that book.
- but that doesn't mean her family and everyone she loves doesn't have a future, right?
I said I'm not interested --
Mr. Van Houten, you said you would tell us what happens and that's why we're here. We... I need you tell me. Surely you've thought about it. I mean, as characters --
Nothing happens to them! They're fictions. They cease to exist the moment the novel is over. This is not what Hazel came all this way to hear. She won't accept it.
They can't! (again, has to calm
I mean, I understand. In a literary sense. But it's impossible NOT to imagine some future --
I can't do this. Lidewij, get rid of them, please. (Lidewij doesn't move, he turns back to Hazel) I won't indulge your childish whims. I refuse to pity you in the manner in which you're accustomed.
I don't want your pity --
Of course you do. Like all sick kids, your existence depends on it.
Peter!
 You are fated to live out your days as the child you were when diagnosed, the child who believes there is life after a novel ends. And we, as adults, we pity this, so we pay for your treatments, for your oxygen machines. We give you food and water though you are unlikely to live long enough --
You are a side effect of an evolutionary process that cares little for individual lives.
You are a failed experiment in mutation.
Lidewij has tears in her eyes. Gus has balled his fists. But not Hazel. Van Houten's words have not phased her one bit. She rises from the couch.
Hey listen douchepants. You're not gonna tell me anything I don't already know about illness. I need one thing and one thing only from you before I walk out of your life and that's for you to tell me what happens to your goddman characters!
Bullshit!
I cannot -- Van Houten goes to take a drink but...
Make something up. ... Hazel smacks it right the fuck out of his hands, surprising everyone. After a beat:
Lidewij. I'll have a martini please.
I have resigned.
Oh don't be ridiculous. No one moves. Van Houten realizes he's alone in this.
I'd like you to leave now.
You're really not gonna tell us?
I would like you... to leave.
Have you ever stopped to ask why you care so much about your silly questions? A beat.
Go fuck yourself. Van Houten doesn't have a response to that. He just shuts the door. And when he does, that's when Hazel gets emotional.
Hey. It's ok. It's ok...  I'll write you a sequel.  I will. Better than any shit that drunk could write. With blood and guts and sacrifice. You'll love it. Hazel nods, then wipes away tears. She fakes a smile and Gus gives her a hug. Afterwards:
I spent your Wish on that asshole.
You did not spend it on him. You spent it on us. They embrace once more.
I wanted...
I know... I know. Apparently the world is not a wish-granting factory. This gets a real smile from Hazel. That's when Lidewij comes outside. Clearly she's been crying too.
I'm so sorry. Circumstance has made him cruel. I thought meeting you would help him, if he would see that his work has shaped real lives, but... I'm very sorry.
Perhaps we can do some sightseeing. Have you seen the Anne Frank House?
I'm not going anywhere with that monster.
He is not invited.
I'm afraid there's no elevator.
Oh, um, that's alright.
No, there are many stairs. Steep stairs.
I can do it.
I can do it! Hazel is not going to stand for any more disappointments today. They are going inside. CUT TO:
Shall we? Hazel nods. Both Hazel and Gus walk slowly up the stairs. So far so good. They find themselves in an office space.
This is the bookcase that hid the Frank family and four others. The BOOKCASE is half open. Behind it is an even steeper set of stairs, only wide enough for one person at a time.
Hazel moves very slowly. We are aware of her labored breathing the entire time. ANGLE ON OTHER TOURISTS, watching and quietly commenting. Just like at the airport, except now in foreign languages. Hazel arrives on the NEXT FLOOR - an empty room. She's definitely starting to struggle. She leans against the wall to catch her breath. Gus comes to her side, wipes her brow.
You're a champion. Hazel smiles. When she's feeling up to it they walk into the next room, also empty. And another staircase, even more narrow and steep - practically a ladder. When Gus sees this he looks at Hazel:
That's enough --
We're at the top. That's it. Hazel becomes aware that TOURISTS look at her with concern. She smiles, stands up, nothing to see here. And now they're in the final room - a long, narrow hallway. This is where Anne Frank and 7 other people lived in hiding for as long as they could. There's a TIME LINE detailing their story.
The only member of the whole family to survive was Otto, Anne's father. Gus takes Hazel's hand.
I don't know how you go on, without your family.
"At such moment's, I don't think about the misery..." Gus and Hazel stand very closely together. The video is the cherry on top of a very emotional day. Hazel watches it.
"...but about the beauty that still remains." Gus, meanwhile, is just watching Hazel, the same way she watched him on the airplane. After a beat, she catches him. Their eyes meet. The emotions build...
"Try to recapture the happiness within yourself. Think of all the beauty in everything around you... and be happy." And Hazel KISSES Gus. A most passionate, intense, you-and-me- against-the-world kind of kiss, better than any they've experienced or could even imagine. It seems to last for a small eternity. Eventually, they break away and open their eyes. They quickly notice all the Travelers staring at them. For a brief second, they wonder if that was a very inappropriate thing to do... When suddenly everyone starts clapping for them, moved by the whole thing. One EUROPEAN even shouts "bravo!" Hazel blushes, Gus smiles, bows, he grabs her hand. CUT TO:
It's above my knee. She ignores him, more kissing. She takes off his shirt.
It tapers a little and then it's just skin --
What?
My leg.
Oh get over yourself. Hazel kisses him again. Now he tries to pull her shirt off but it gets tangled in with her oxygen tube. He can't figure it out. Eventually the whole thing is hilarious to them. They shake their heads - laughing - certainly not your typical Hollywood movie moment. And yet, for them:
I love you, Augustus Waters.
I love you too, Hazel Grace. They resume kissing. And we CUT TO:
"Get up you fat bastard."
"I can't stand up, I'm too drunk."
I said "get up."
"Standing is for fools!"
God, what an asshole. They both giggle at the whole thing.
It was awful, Mom. You can't imagine.
And then what happened?
Then we went to the Anne Frank museum.
And after that? A quick glance between Hazel and Gus.
We just... walked around. Hazel and Gus smile, thoroughly in love but trying to keep it in check in front of her Mother.
Sounds lovely. A few beats later.
Listen... I'm gonna stretch my legs a little. Give the two of you some time to talk.
That was weird. Gus doesn't respond except to say:
Shall we?
Augustus?
There's something I have to tell you... They walk in silence a few beats.
Just before you went into the hospital... There was this... I felt this... ache in my hip. Hazel grabs onto his arm, a lump already forming.
Oh no... Gus takes the cigarette out of his mouth, clenches his teeth tightly, trying not to cry.
I had a PET scan. Gus sits down on a BENCH. Looks up at her. Tries to smile. Before he even says it, she knows.
It lit up like a Christmas tree, Hazel...
Oh god.
The lining of my chest, my liver... everywhere.
Oh my god no! Hazel loses it in that moment, falling on top of him, hugging him for dear life, her head in his lap.
I'm so sorry, Augustus. I'm so so
I'm sorry too --
It's so unfair --
I should have told you --
It's so fucking unfair! A beat. Gus still trying not to cry.
Apparently the world is... not a wish-granting factory. And at that point, Gus lets it go, lets himself cry and be sad and feel awful. But just for a second. Then he shakes it off, pulls Hazel's face up to his, tries again to smile through the tears.
Don't you worry about me, Hazel Grace. I'll find a way to hang around and annoy you for a long time. She hugs him, perhaps a little too tightly. He winces.
Does it hurt?
It's ok.
Ok.
Ok. But of course it's not ok. Not by a mile. Hazel takes a moment to look at him, touches his cheek.
What?
I'm just... I'm very fond of you. He grabs her hand and holds it.
I don't suppose you can forget about it, treat me like I'm not dying.
I don't think you're dying, Augustus. You've just got a touch of cancer. Gus nods. Squeezes her hand.
Would it be absolutely ludicrous to make out right now?
Upon seeing them, he immediately starts to cry of course. He kisses his wife, gives Hazel a big hug. Gus goes to shake his hand but Michael hugs him as well. CUT TO:
Gus had a recurrence.
You're not gonna say it?
What's that?
The usual. "Everything happens for a reason..." Michael shakes his head.
I don't know, Haze.
How are your eyes?
Great. Wonderful. I mean, they're not in my head is the only problem.
I hate to one-up you but... seems my entire body is made out of cancer now, so... Isaac nods. Tries not to get emotional but it's happening. He goes to touch Gus's arm and accidentally touches his thigh.
Whoa, I'm taken. Isaac laughs.
 Did you write his eulogy yet? Hazel is confused.
Dude.
What?
I haven't asked her.
Oh.
What are you talking about?
My bad.
I need speakers at my funeral. I thought maybe you and Isaac... but especially you --
Hey!
Would you be kind enough to whip something up?
 It would be an honor. They hold holds.
You guys are adorable. Hazel play slaps Isaac on the arm.
How's your love life? Anything from Monica?
Not a word.
She hasn't even like, texted to ask how you're doing? He shakes his head. Gus gets an angry look on his face.
That is so messed up!
I've stopped thinking about it. Moving on. There's a new girl in Support Group with these humongous - Isaac gestures to his chest. Hazel is confused.
How do you even know that?
I'm blind but I'm not that blind.
Hazel Grace! They turn to him.
Do you happen to have four dollars?
Ok now what? Gus smiles. CUT TO:
Is it there?
Oh it's there. REVEAL they're looking at Monica's green Firebird.
She's in the house?
Who cares where she is? This is not about her. This is about you.  Hazel... Hazel nods, opens the egg carton, hands Gus an egg. Gus puts it in Isaac's hands. Positions Isaac - who, of course, can't see a thing - towards the Firebird. Isaac winds up and tosses the EGG. It misses the car by a mile. After a beat:
I didn't hear anything.
A little to the left.
My throw was to the left or I should aim to the left?
Aim left. Isaac turns his shoulders.
Lefter. Isaac turns some more.
Yes! Excellent! And throw hard. Gus hands him a SECOND EGG. Isaac winds up and hurls it - missing the car again but hitting the HOUSE.
Bullseye!
Really?
No you missed it by like 20 feet.  Try one more time. Isaac hurls it, this time smashing the car's taillight. Isaac's face lights up.
Woo hoo! Isaac grabs for ANOTHER EGG. Throws it. Then ANOTHER. He's a throwing machine. Most of them miss but at least he's enjoying himself. Finally there's a DIRECT HIT on the car door, triggering the alarm. Isaac pauses.
Keep throwing, keep throwing! Isaac does. Gus smiles, putting an unlit cigarette in his mouth. Hazel watches him, enjoying this moment. Eventually, MONICA'S MOM opens the front door and comes out.
What in God's name -- Seeing Hazel, Gus, and Isaac, she stops in her tracks.
Are you Monica's mom?
Hello ma'am. Your daughter has done an injustice and we've come here seeking revenge. We may not look like much. Between the three of us, we have five legs, four eyes, and two and a half working lungs.
But we also have two dozen eggs. So If I was you, I would go back inside. Monica's Mom is very confused. A beat. Without another word, she turns and goes back inside. The three of them celebrate. As Isaac picks up where he left off, Hazel gently kisses Gus on the cheek. And over we hear:
A few days later, Gus landed in the hospital with chest pains.
How's he doing?
He's had a tough night, Hazel. His blood pressure's low. His heart -- Mrs. Waters starts to cry.
What about the chemo?
 They're gonna stop the chemo. They both know what that means. Mrs. Waters gathers herself.
Can I see him?
We'll tell him you were here.
If you don't mind, I'll just hang for a while. Mrs. Waters nods, hugs her again, walks out through the heavy doors towards Gus's room. Hazel sits in the chair. Same chair Gus sat in while waiting for her. They've switched places.
What are you thinking about?
Oblivion.
Augustus...
I know it's kid's stuff but... I always thought I'd have a grand story to tell, you know? Something that would run in all the papers. I always thought I was special.
You are.
Yeah but... you know what I mean. Hazel, annoyed finishes her cup, tosses it to the side. Gus can tell he's said something wrong.
What?
I do know what you mean, I just... I don't agree. Hazel stands up, anger building.
This obsession with being
Don't get mad --
But I am mad!
You think the only way to live a meaningful life is for everyone to love you, for everyone to remember you. Well guess what, Gus, this is your life. This is all you get. You get me, and your family, and this world. And if that's not enough, well I'm sorry, but it's not nothing. Cause I'll remember you, I'll love you --
You're right --
And I just wish... I just wish you'd be happy with that.
You're right. I'm sorry.  I'm sorry. Gus hands Hazel another Winnie the Pooh cup. Raises his to hers in a toast.
It's a good life, Hazel Grace. She softens. They toast.
It's not over yet, you know. Gus nods. Of course it isn't. And yet they both know there isn't much time. CUT TO:
Hello?
I'm at the gas station --
What?
Something's wrong. You gotta... please come help me.
No! Please! Hazel, listen to me. Do not call 911 or my parents -- I'll never forgive you -- Don't, please. Gus starts to cry.
Please just look at it. Hazel lifts up his shirt. His ABDOMEN is bright red.
I think it's infected... Hazel feels his forehead, he's burning up.
Gus, what the -- why are you here? Why aren't you home? Gus throws up. He doesn't even have the energy to turn his mouth away from his lap.
Oh, sweetie...
I wanted to buy some cigarettes. I lost my pack. Or they took it.
I don't know. They said they'd get me another one but I wanted... to do it myself. Do one little thing myself. Hazel doesn't know what to do.
I can't fix this. I have to call someone. I'm sorry.
No, Hazel, please! But she must. She gets out her cell phone and dials. At which point, Gus really loses it, weeping like the poisoned, dying teenage boy that he is. As Hazel dials, we hear:
I wish I could say Augustus Waters kept his sense of humor till the end, did not for a moment waiver in his courage and his spirit soared like an eagle to the sky...
 I hate myself I hate myself I hate this I hate this...
...but that is not what happened. LATER. An EMT loads Gus into the back of an AMBULANCE. Hazel is allowed to ride with him in the back. As the car starts moving, Gus grabs her hand.
Read me something.
Read you something?
Do you know any poems?
I know one.
Read it to me.
"The Red Wheelbarrow" by William Carlos Williams.  "So much depends / upon / a red wheel / barrow / glazed with rain / water / beside the white / chickens."
No of course not. Um... what else...
So much depends upon this observer/ of the universe... As Gus is drifting off to sleep, WE HEAR:
One of the less bull-shitty conventions of the cancer genre is the convention known as the "Last Good Day..."
This is where the victim of cancer finds himself unexpectedly with some hours...
... when it seems like the inexorable decline has suddenly plateaued, when the pain is for a minute bearable.
The problem, of course, is that there's no way of knowing that your last good day is your "Last Good Day." At the time, it's just another decent day. The phone buzzes and Hazel answers it.
Hi, Augustus.
Good evening, Hazel Grace. His voice is strong today, and Hazel is happy to hear it.
Quick question for you. Did you ever write that eulogy I asked you to prepare?
I may have...
Excellent. Do you think you could find yourself at the Literal Heart of Jesus in 20 minutes.
Um... sure. Is everything --
I love you Hazel. The call ends. Hazel, confused, stands to go.
I gotta go.
Finish eating first.
I can't, I have to meet Gus.
You haven't eaten a thing.
I'm not hungry.
You can't not eat, Hazel.
I am aggressively unhungry, ok?
I have to go.
Sit down.
No!
Hazel, listen to your mother. Hazel tries to push past her but Frannie grabs her shoulders.
You have to eat, Hazel. You're not gonna starve yourself to death just because Gus is sick. You have to stay healthy --
I can't! I can't stay healthy because I'm not healthy, Mom. I am dying. I am going to die and leave you here alone and you won't have me to hover around and you won't be a mother anymore, and I'm sorry, but I can't do anything about it, ok?! Just leave me alone! Upon seeing her mother's face change, Hazel immediately regrets this.
You heard me? Frannie has tears in her eyes. Hazel looks away, feeling terrible.
You heard me say that to your father? Frannie sits down on the couch with her daughter.
Oh god, sweetie. I'm sorry. I was wrong, ok? It wasn't true. It's not something I believe. Michael sits across from them.
As long as either of us is alive, I will be your mother. Even if you die, I --
When.
Even when you die, I will still be your mother. I will always be your Mother. By now Michael is crying too. They all are.
I worry that you won't have a life. That you'll sit around all day with no me to look after and stare at the walls and be miserable or off yourselves or something.
We're not gonna off ourselves. It's gonna hurt like hell to lose you
Hazel. You of all people know it's possible to live with pain. She takes that in. It rings true to her. Hazel nods.
I don't just sit around, you know. Hazel is confused. Frannie looks at Michael like, "should I say something?" She goes for it.
I'm taking some classes. Online. To get my master's in social work.
You are? Hazel is stunned.
So when you're waiting for me outside Support Group or whatever, you're always --
Working or reading. If I get my MSW, I can council families in crisis or lead groups dealing with
Why didn't you tell me? Frannie and Michael don't quite know what to say.
We didn't want you to feel
Are you kidding? Mom, this is awesome! This is fantastic! Oh my god! Hazel grabs her Mom for a hug.
I'm so excited! You're gonna be so great, Mom!
Thank you. That means everything to me. Mom and Daughter hug. And when it's over:
I'd still really like you to eat.
I know Mom. And I will. I promise. But right now... I really gotta go.
Hazel Grace, you look ravishing.
I know, right?
You're late.
Late for what exactly?
I wanted to attend my funeral. By the way, will you speak at my funeral? Hazel looks at him like "of course, silly" and then kisses him on the mouth.
Sweet. I'm hopeful I'll get to attend as a ghost, but just to make sure, I thought I'd - well, not to put you on the spot, but I thought I'd arrange a pre-funeral.
Why now?
No time like the present.
 How did you even get in here?
Would you believe they leave the door open at night?
Um, no.
As well you shouldn't. He smiles and for a brief moment it's old Gus. Hazel laughs. Isaac clears his throat.
"Augustus Waters was a self- aggrandizing bastard. But we forgive him. We forgive him... not because he had a heart as figuratively good as his actual one sucked, or because he got 18 years when he should have gotten more."
I'm assuming you've got some time, you interrupting bastard! I mean seriously...  "Augustus Waters talked so much that he'd interrupt you at his own funeral. And he was pretentious.
Sweet Jesus that kid never took a piss without pondering the resonances of human waste production. And he was vain. But that comes with superhuman handsomeness." Gus nods - that part is true.
"But I will say this: when the scientists of the future show up at my house with robot eyes and they tell me to try them on, I will tell the scientists to piss off, because I don't even want to see a world without Augustus Waters." Hazel smiles - but it's one that triggers an immediate emotional waterfall.
"And then, of course, having made my rhetorical point, I will put my robot eyes on because, I mean... robot eyes!" Gus has a big smile on his face.
"So anyway, Augustus, my friend... Godspeed." Gus nods a couple times.
Thank you Isaac. This causes Isaac to lose it. He clings to the lectern.
Goddamn it, Gus.
Hey don't swear in the Literal Heart of Jesus.
Shit! Ass! Balls! Isaac sighs. Wipes away the tears. And another beat passes.
Can I get a hand here, Hazel? Hazel remembers Isaac can't see. She rises, goes up to get him, walks him back to her seat.
Hazel Grace, it's down to you.
"Augustus Waters was the great star- crossed love of my life. Ours was an epic love story, and I won't be able to get more than a sentence into it without disappearing into a puddle of tears.
 "I can't talk about our love story so instead I will talk about math. I am not a mathematician, but I know this: there are infinite numbers between 0 and 1. There's .1 And .12 And .112 And an infinite collection of others. Of course, there is a bigger infinite set of numbers between 0 and 2, or between 0 and a million. Some infinities are bigger than other infinities. A writer we used to like taught us that. I want more numbers than I'm likely to get, and God, I want more numbers for Augustus Waters than he got. But, Gus, my love, I cannot tell you how thankful I am for our little infinity. You gave me a forever within the numbered days, and for that I am eternally grateful. I love you." Gus smiles, nods, and closes his eyes. CUT TO:
Over which we hear a RINGING TELEPHONE.
Augustus Waters died eight days later in the ICU... Hazel's head falls into her chest.
... when the cancer, which was made of him, stopped his heart, which was also made of him. Her bedroom door opens. It's Frannie and Michael. This only confirms her worst fears. She starts to cry. Her parents embrace her in the bed.
It was unbearable. The whole thing. Every second worse than the last.
One of the first things they ask you in the ER is to rate your pain on a scale from 1 to 10. I'd been asked this question hundreds of times and I remember once, early on, when I couldn't catch my breath and it felt like my chest was on fire, and the nurse asked me to rate the pain and though I couldn't speak, I held up 9 fingers. The loud music isn't protecting Hazel as well as she hoped. She falls apart nonetheless.
Later on, when I'd been feeling better, the nurse came in and she called me a fighter. "You know how I know," she said. "Because you called a ten a nine."
But that wasn't the truth. The reason I called it a nine was... I was saving my ten.
And this was it. The great and terrible ten. When Mr. and Mrs. Waters see Hazel, they open their arms.
He loved you so much. Hazel nods. Hugs them back.
He loved you so much too. More MOURNERS approach the family, leaving Hazel stranded in the receiving line. Her eyes turn towards the COFFIN. She's not entirely sure she wants to go there but she takes a deep breath, wills herself to walk towards it. Gus is there in the same suit he wore to Oranjee. Immediately, Hazel breaks down. And immediately, she catches herself.
It's ok, you hear me? It's ok. She leans forward and kisses his cheek. She looks around. Once in the clear, she pulls out a hard pack of Camel Lights and sticks them in the space between Gus and the lining of the coffin. A MINISTER approaches at that moment.
I think we're ready to begin. Hazel nods and walks back to her parents, taking her seat in the middle of the room.
Augustus Waters fought hard for many years. His battle was a courageous one and his strength was a source of inspiration for each and every one of us... Hazel frowns. This is all such bullshit. And she hears:
What a load of shit, eh kid? Hazel recognizes that voice. But it doesn't make sense. She turns around and, sure enough, it's Peter Van Houten.
Let us pray. Everyone clasps their hands, closes their eyes. Hazel keeps staring at Van Houten, too shocked to do a thing.
We need to fake pray now. Van Houten bows his head. Hazel, still stunned, slowly turns back to the Minister, trying to make sense of this unexpected appearance.
Now I call on Augustus's close friend Isaac to say a few words. Isaac stands, walks up to the podium with someone's help. Hazel sneaks one more look at Van Houten. Yup, it's really him. That makes no sense to her. Isaac starts to speak.
Of all the things I've lost in my life, this hurts the most. And Isaac stops talking. It's unclear if that was the end or if he just can't go on. He returns to his seat. The Minister walks back up.
And now we'll hear from Gus's... special friend Hazel Lancaster. Hazel stands, walks up to the podium. A few titters in the room at the words "special friend."
I was his girlfriend. Some laughter from the crowd. She takes out her notes.
There's a beautiful quote in Gus's home that reads "if you want the rainbow, you gotta deal with the rain." Hazel continues to speak but we over it, WE HEAR instead:
I didn't believe a word, of course. But that was ok. Funerals, I'd decided, aren't for the dead. They're for the living. Gus's Parents, arm in arm, nod along with every word. CUT TO:
I'll be fine.
Are you sure? We can drive you --
No, I'd... I'd like to be alone for a while. Hazel hugs Mom and Dad, walks alone towards the parking lot. As she gets to the car, Van Houten approaches.
Could I hitch a ride? Hazel doesn't want to help this man.
Just to the bottom of the hill. Hazel exhales. Fine. Once they're both in the car:
How did you even --
The internet.
And you just... bought a ticket?
The drinks are free drinks in First Class. Van Houten removes a FLASK from his coat pocket. Takes a swig. Hazel shakes her head in disgust. Starts driving.
Omnis Cellula e cellula. Hazel ignores him.
Your boy Waters and I corresponded quite a bit in his last --
You read your fan mail now?
I would hardly call him a fan. He despised me. But he was quite insistent I attend his funeral and tell you what became of Anna and her mother. So here I am and that's your answer: omnis cellula e cellula.
I'm so not in the mood --
"Life comes from life."
Goodbye Mr. Van Houten.
You don't want an explanation?
Nope. Thanks though. Have a great life.
You remind me of her.
She was eight, my daughter. She suffered... beautifully. For so long. Hazel starts to understand Van Houten - and softens.
She had leukemia? Like Anna?
Just like her, yes.
Were you married then?
Not when she died, no. I was insufferable long before Anna, my dear. Grief doesn't change you, Hazel, it reveals you. Hazel takes that in.
Well I'm sorry for your loss.
And I'm sorry for yours. I'm sorry for everything, for being so rude to you two, for ruining your trip --
You didn't ruin our trip, you asshole. We had an awesome trip.
Hazel, I'm trying. I'm trying! You asked me to tell you what happens and I wish I could do that. I wish that I could. But I can't. No one can. No one knows, Hazel. They don't talk to us. Unless... Van Houten takes out a typed piece of paper. He hands it to Hazel who grabs it - and immediately crumples it into a ball.
You think I care about that? I don't give a shit, Van Houten. Hazel throws the piece of paper at Van Houten.
You're a drunk and a jerk and a failure. And I'd like you to get out of my car right now so I can go home and grieve.
Get out of the car! Van Houten knows he's too late. He does as he's told, stepping out of the car onto the side of the road. He stands there as Hazel peels out. In the rearview mirror, she sees him raise the FLASK, as if toasting her. She blinks away some tears and drives. CUT TO:
Can I come in? Hazel leans over and unlocks the door. Michael kneels down next to her, putting her head on his shoulder. Hazel presses her face into his shirt and cries some more. Michael squeezes her tightly. And this time, he doesn't cry.
I'm so so sorry.
Gives you an idea how we feel about you. Michael smiles at Hazel. And he doesn't cry. Hazel draws strength from him.
Do you know if it hurt or whatever?
He was really fighting for breath, I guess. He eventually went unconscious, but it seems like, yeah, it wasn't great or anything. Dying sucks.
Happens all the time.
Are you angry?
Very.
Me too.  Gus really loved you, you know.
I know.
He wouldn't shut up about it.
I know.
It was annoying.
I didn't find it that annoying. They sit there in silence a few beats.
Did you read the note or whatever from your author friend?
He is not my friend and -- how do you know about that?
We talked at the cemetery. Said he came all this way to give you that.
Yeah well I'm over it. I never want to read another word of that asshole's again.
Yeah but he didn't write it - Gus did.
That's what he said. Gus had written something, sent it to Van
Hazel sits up. Her heart is racing.
What?
I... I have to go. I... Are you...?
I do it all the time. Go. As quickly as possible Hazel leaves. Isaac stays behind, enjoying the cool night. A new day is coming.
Mr. Van Houten, I'm a good person but a shitty writer. You're a shitty person but a good writer. We'd make a good team. I don't want to ask you any favors but if you have the time, and from what I saw you have plenty, please fix this for me. It's a eulogy for Hazel. Hazel is overcome with emotion.
She asked me to write one and I'm trying, I just, I could use a little flair. See the thing is... we all want to be remembered. She smiles to herself, remembering: - That first time Gus and Hazel ran into each other. - The staring contest in Support Group.
We all want to leave a mark. - Driving  in Gus's car. - Their first kiss at the picnic by "Funky Bones."
But not Hazel. Hazel is different. Hazel knows the truth. She didn't want a million admirers, she just wanted one. And she got it. Maybe she wasn't loved widely but she was loved deeply. And isn't that more than most of us get? - And BACK TO HAZEL reading the letter, tears in her eyes.
When Hazel was sick, I knew I was dying. But I didn't want to say so.
She was in ICU and I snuck in for ten minutes and sat with her before I got caught. Her eyes were closed, her lungs were intubated...
... but her hands were still her hands, still warm, and the nails painted this dark blue back color and I just held her hands and I willed myself to imagine a world without us and what a worthless world that would be. - AND BACK TO HAZEL reading the letter. She never knew that story, never knew he was there. CUT TO:
She's so beautiful. You don't get tired of looking at her. You never worry if she's smarter than you cause you know she is. She's funny without ever being mean.
- The magical dinner at Oranjee. - The bench in which they sat overlooking the water. - The passionate kiss in Anne Frank's house. - Falling onto the bed together.
I love her, god I love her. I'm so lucky to love her, Van Houten.
You don't get to choose if you get hurt in this world but you do have a say in who hurts you.
I like my choices. I hope she likes hers.
Ok, Hazel Grace?
Ok.
