We were somewhere around Barstow on the edge of the desert when the drugs began to take hold.
I remember saying something like: "I feel a bit lightheaded.  Maybe you should drive..."
Suddenly there was a terrible roar all around us and the sky was full of what looked like huge bats, all swooping and screeching and diving around the car...
... and a voice was screaming: Holy Jesus!  What are these goddamn animals?
What are you yelling about?
Never mind.  It's your turn to drive.
No point mentioning these bats.  I thought.  The poor bastard will see them soon enough.
We had two bags of grass, seventy- five pellets of mescaline, five sheets of high powered blotter acid, a salt shaker half full of cocaine, a whole galaxy of multi- colored uppers, downers, screamers, laughers... Also a quart of tequila, a quart of rum, a case of beer, a pint of raw ether and two dozen amyls.
Not that we needed all that for the trip, but once you get locked into a serious drug collection, the tendency is to push it as far as you can.
The only thing that really worried me was the ether.  There is nothing in the world more helpless and irresponsible and depraved than a man in the depths of an ether binge. And I knew we'd get into that rotten stuff pretty soon.
An overdose of heroin was listed as the official cause of death for pretty 19 year old Diane Hanby whose body was found stuffed in a refrigerator last week...
"One toke over the line, sweet Jesus."
 One toke.  You poor fool.  Wait till you see those goddamn bats.
Let's give that boy a lift.
We can't stop here - this is bat country!
Hot damn!  I never rode in a convertible before!
Is that right?  Well, I guess you're about ready, eh?
We're your friends.  We're not like the others.
 No more of that talk or I'll put the leeches on you.
How long could we maintain, I wondered.  How long before one of us starts raving and jabbering at this boy?  What will he think then? This same lonely desert was the last known home of the Manson family.
Would he make that grim connection when my attorney starts screaming about bats and huge manta rays coming down on the car?
If so - well, we'll just have to cut his head off and bury him somewhere.  Because it goes without saying that we can't turn him loose. He'd report us at once to some kind of outback Nazi law enforcement agency, and they'll run us down like dogs...
 Jesus!  Did I say that?
Or just think it?  Was I talking? Did they hear me?
 It's okay.  He's admiring the shape of your skull.
Maybe I better have a chat with this boy I thought.  Perhaps if I explain things, he'll rest easy...
 THERE'S ONE THING YOU SHOULD PROBABLY UNDERSTAND --
 CAN YOU HEAR ME?
That's good.  Because I want you to have all the background.  This is a very ominous assignment -- with overtones of extreme personal danger.  I'm a Doctor of Journalism! This is important, goddamnit!  This is a true story!... (WHACKS the BACK OF THE DRIVER'S SEAT with his fist)
 Keep your hands off my fucking neck!
Our vibrations were getting nasty -- but why?  Was there no communication in this car?  Had we deteriorated to the level of dumb beasts?
 I want you to understand that this man at the wheel is my attorney! He's not just some dingbat I found on the Strip.  He's a foreigner.  I think he's probably Samoan.  But it doesn't matter, does it?  Are you prejudiced?
Hell, no!
I didn't think so.  Because in spite of his race, this man is extremely valuable to me.  Hell, I forgot all about this beer.  You want one? (HITCHHIKER shakes his head) How about some ether?
What?
Never mind.  Let's get right to the heart of this thing.  Twenty-four hours ago we were sitting in the Pogo Lounge of the Beverly Wills Hotel...
... in the patio section, of course, drinking Singapore Slings with mescal on the side, hiding from the brutish realities of this foul year of Our Lord, 1971.
I'm telling you, the Salazar story is getting too complicated.  The weasels have started closing in.
Perhaps this is the call you've been waiting for all this time, sir...
Uh-huh... Uh-huh... Uh-huh...
That was headquarters.  They want me to go to Las Vegas at once and make contact with a Portuguese photographer named Lacerda.  He'll have the details.  All I have to do is check into my sound proof suite and he'll seek me out.
God hell!  I think I see the pattern!  This one sounds like real trouble!  You're going to need plenty of legal advice before this thing is over.  As your attorney I must advise you that you'll need a very fast car with no top and after that, the cocaine.  And then the tape recorder, for special music, and some Acapulco shirts... (GONZO tucks his khaki undershirt into his white bellbottoms -- he means business!) This blows my weekend, because naturally I'll have to go with you -- and we'll have to arm ourselves.
Why not?  If a thing's worth doing, it's worth doing right.
I tell you, my man.  This is the American Dream in action!  We'd be fools not to ride this strange torpedo all the way to the end.
Indeed.  We must do it.  What kind of story is this?
The Mint 400!  The richest off-road race for motorcycles and dune- buggies in the history of organized sport! (handing parking ticket to Valet) -- a fantastic spectacle in honor of some fatback grossero who owns the luxurious Mint Hotel in the heart of downtown Vegas... at least that's what the press release says.
We're going to have to drum it up on our own.  Pure Gonzo Journalism.
Getting hold of the drugs and shirts had been no problem...
... but the car and tape recorder were not easy things to round up at 6:30 on a Friday afternoon in Hollywood.
O.K., O.K., yes.  Hang onto it. We'll be there in thirty minutes. (to DUKE -- hand over the PHONE) I finally located a car with adequate horsepower and the proper coloring.  What?!  OF COURSE the gentleman has a major credit card!  Do you realize who the fuck you're talking to?
Don't take any guff from these swine. (GONZO slams the phone down) Now we need a sound store with the finest equipment.  Nothing dinky. One of those new Belgian Heliowatts with a voice-activated shotgun mike, for picking up conversations in oncoming cars.
We won't make the nut unless we have unlimited credit.
We will.  You Samoans are all the same.  You have no faith in the essential decency of the white man's culture.
The store was closed, but the salesman said he would wait, if we hurried...
But we were delayed en route when a Stingray in front of us killed a pedestrain.
We had trouble, again, at the car rental agency.
Say... uh... you fellas are going to be careful with this car, aren't you?
Of course.
Well, good god!  You just backed over that two foot concrete abutment and you didn't even slow down! Forty-five in reverse!  And you barely missed the pump!
No harm done.  I always test the transmission that way.  The rear end.  For stress factors.
Say.  Are you fellows drinking?
Not me.  We're responsible people.
There's another worrier.  He's probably all cranked up on speed.
We spent the rest of that night rounding up materials and packing the car.  Then we ate some mescaline and went swimming.
Our trip was different.  It was to be a classic affirmation of everything right and true in the national character; a gross, physical salute to the fantastic possibilities of life in this country.  But only for those with true grit...
...and we're chock full of that!
Damn right!
My attorney understands this concept, despite his racial handicap. But do you?!
He said he understood, but I could see in his eyes that he didn't.  He was lying to me.
My heart!
Where's the medicine?
The medicine?  Yes, it's right here.
Don't worry, this man has a bad heart... Angina Pectoris.  But we have a cure for it.
 Turn up the fucking music!  My heart feels like an alligator! Volume!  Clarity!  Bass!  We must have bass!  What's wrong with us? Are you goddamn old ladies?
 You scurvy shyster bastard!  Watch your language!  You're talking to a Doctor of Journalism!
 What the fuck are we doing out here? Somebody call the police!  We need help!
 Pay no attention to this swine.  He can't handle the medicine. 
 The truth is we're going to Vegas to croak a scag baron named Savage Henry.  I've known him for years but he ripped us off -- and you know what that means, right?
Savage Henry has cashed his check! We're going to rip his lungs out!
And eat them!  That bastard won't get away with this!  What's going on in this country when a scum sucker like that can get away with sandbagging a Doctor of Journalism?
Thanks for the ride.  Thanks a lot. I like you guys.  Don't worry about me.
 Wait a minute!  Come back and have a beer!
Good riddance.  That boy made me nervous.  Did you see his eyes?  Jesus, this is good medicine.
 Move over!!  We have to get out of California before that kid finds a cop!
It was absolutely imperative that we get to the Mint Hotel before the deadline for press registration. Otherwise, we might have to pay for our suite.
Oh, Jesus!  Did you see what god just did to us?
God didn't do that!  You did it! You're a fucking narcotics agent, that was our cocaine, you pig!
 You better be careful.  Plenty of vultures out here.  They'll pick your bones clean before morning.
You whore!
Here -- chew this.  It's your half of the acid.
How long do I have?
Maybe thirty more minutes.  As your attorney, I advise you to drive at top speed.  It'll be a goddamn miracle if we can get there before you turn into a wild animal.  Are you ready for that?  Checking into a Vegas hotel under a phony name with intent to commit capital fraud and a head full of acid.
Thirty minutes.  It was going to be very close.
I need this, right?
I'll remember your face.
There is no way of explaining the terror I felt.
I was pouring sweat.  My blood is too thick for Nevada.  I've never been able to properly explain myself in this climate.
Be quiet, be calm... name, rank, and press affiliation, nothing else...
...ignore this terrible drug, pretend it's not happening...
HI THERE.  MY NAME... AH, RAOUL DUKE... ON... ON THAT LIST, THAT'S FOR SURE.  FREE LUNCH, FINAL WISDOM, TOTAL COVERAGE... WHY NOT? I HAVE MY ATTORNEY WITH ME, AND I REALIZE OF COURSE...
... THAT HIS NAME IS NOT ON THE LIST, BUT WE MUST HAVE THAT SUITE. YES.  JUST CHECK THE LIST AND YOU'LL SEE.  DON'T WORRY.  WHAT'S THE SCORE HERE?  WHAT'S NEXT?
 Your suite's not ready yet.  But there's somebody looking for you.
 NO!  WHY?  WE HAVEN'T DONE ANYTHING YET!
I can handle this.  This man has a bad heart, but I have plenty of medicine.  My name is Dr. Gonzo. Prepare our suite at once.  We'll be in the bar.
 Two Cuba Libres with beer and mescal on the side.  Who's Lacerda, he's waiting for us in a room on the twelfth floor?
Lacerda?
I couldn't remember.  The name rang a bell, but I couldn't concentrate. Terrible things were happening all around us...
Order some golf shoes.  Otherwise, we'll never get out of this place alive.  It's impossible to walk in this muck -- no footing at all...
I was right in the middle of a fucking reptile zoo.  And somebody was giving booze to these goddamn things!  It won't be long before they tear us to shreds!
If you think we're in trouble now wait until you see what's happening in the elevators.
I just went upstairs to see this man Lacerda.  I told him I knew what he was up to... (GONZO rallies -- turns fierce) He says he's a photographer!  But when I mentioned Savage Henry he freaked!  He knows we're onto him!
But what about our room?  And the golf shoes?
 Holy shit!  Look at that bunch over there!  They've spotted us!
 That's the press table.  Where you have to sign in for our credentials. Shit, let's get it over with.  You handle that, and I'll check on the room.
No, no.  Don't leave me!
Four club sandwiches, four shrimp cocktails.
There's a big... machine in the sky... some kind of electric snake...
... a quart of rum...
... coming straight at us.
Shoot it.
Not yet.  I want to study its habits.
... and nine fresh grapefruit.
Vitamin C.  We'll need all we can get.
Look, you've got to stop this talk about snakes and leeches and lizards and that stuff.  It's making me sick!
What are you talking about?
You bastard!  They'll never let us back in that place.  I leave you alone for three minutes and you start waving that goddamn marlin spike around -- yelling about reptiles!  You scared the shit out of those people!  They were ready to call the cops.  Hell, the only reason they gave us press passes was to get you out of there...
Oh my God!  Who's that?!
Duke?  I'm Lacerda your photographer. Got your press passes?  Good, good. Too bad you missed the bikes checking in.  My, what a sight!
Husquavarnas.  Yamahas.  Kawaskis. Maicos.  Pursang.  Swedish Fireballs. Couple of Triumphs, here and there a CZ.  All very fast.  What a race it's gonna be.
Well, we start at dawn.  Get a good night's sleep.  I know I will.
 That's good...
I think he's lying to us.  I could see it in his eyes.
 They'll probably have a big net for us when we show up.
Turn that shit off!
Never lose sight of the primary responsibility.  Cover the story. But what was the story?  Nobody had bothered to say.
The racers were ready at dawn. Very tense.  But the race didn't start until nine so we had three long hours to kill.
Those of us who had been up all night were in no mood for coffee and donuts.  We wanted strong drink. We were, after all, the Absolute Cream of the National Sporting Press and we were gathered here, in Las Vegas, for a very special assignment.  And when it comes to things like this you don't fool around.
See..."Kill the body and the head will die"... the Frazier/Ali fight...
A proper end to the 60's... Ali beaten by a human hamburger!
And both Kennedy's murdered by mutants.
That's it!  They're starting!
Well, that's that.  They'll be back in an hour or so.  Let's go back to the bar.
Group 2!
Group 3!
There was something like 190 more bikes waiting to start.  They were due to go off 10 at a time every 2 minutes.
Beer!
God damn!  What day is this -- Saturday?
More like Sunday.
Hah!  That's a bitch, ain't it? Last night I was home in Long Beach and somebody said they were runnin' the Mint 400 today, so I says to my old lady, "Man, I'm goin'." So she gives me a lot of crap about it, so I start slappin' her around, and the next thing you know two guys I never seen before are beating me stupid.
Group 4!
Then they gave me ten bucks, put me on a bus, and when I woke up here I was in downtown Vegas, and for a minute all I could think was, "O Jesus, who's divorcing me this time?" But then I remembered, by God!  I was here for the Mint 400. And, man, I tell you, it's wonderful to be here.  Just wonderful to be here with you people.
Senzaman wassyneeds!
 Hell yes!  Bring us ten!
Group 5!
 I'll back it! (slides off his stool to the floor)
 This is a magic moment in sport! It may never come again!  I once did the Triple Crown, but it was nothing like this.
Please stand up!  You're a correspondent for a major national magazine who's name we can't get clearance for!  Please!  You'd be a very handsome man if you'd just stand up!
Listen, madam.  I'm damn near intolerably handsome down here where I am.  You'd go crazy if I stood up!
Club soda, please.
 Please!  I love Life!
 Man, it's great out there!
Lunatics.
Group 6!
Meet you outside!
By 10 they were spread out all over the course.  It was no longer a race, now it was an Endurance Contest.  The idea of trying to "cover this race" in any conventional press sense was absurd.
It's great, isn't it?!  Jump in!
I'll just keep trying different combos of film and lenses till I find one that works in this dust!
"...As we go marching on When I reach my final campground, in that land beyond the sun, And the Great Commander asks me..." [What did he ask you, Rusty?] "Did you fight or did you run?"
 [And what did you tell them, Rusty?] "We responded to their rifle fire with everything we had..."
Beats me.  We're just good patriotic Americans like yourself.
The sporting press.  We're friendlies.  Hired geeks.
If you want a good chase, you should get after that skunk from CBS News up ahead in the black jeep. He's the man responsible for that book, THE SELLING OF THE PENTAGON.
Take me back to the pits.
No, no -- we have to go on.  We need total coverage.
You're fired.
It was time.  I felt, for an Agonizing Reappraisal of the whole scene.  The race was definitely under way.  I had witnessed the start; I was sure of that much. But what now?
Turn up the radio!  Turn up the tape machine!  Roll the windows down.  Let's taste this cool desert wind!  Aaah, yes!  This is what it's all about!
Total control now.  Tooling along the main drag on a Saturday night in Vegas, two good old boys in a fire apple red convertible... stoned, ripped, twisted... Good people!
How about "Nickel Nick's Slot Arcade?" "Hot Slots," that sounds heavy.  Twenty-nine cent hotdogs...
Look, what are we doing here?  Are we here to entertain ourselves, or to do the job?
To do the job, of course.  Here we go... a Crab Louie and quart of muscatel for twenty dollars!
As your attorney I advise you to drive over to the Tropicana and pick up on Guy Lombardo.  He's in the Blue Room with his Royal Canadians.
Why?
Why what?
Why should I pay out my hard-earned dollars to watch a fucking corpse. I don't know about you, but in my line of business it's important to be Hep.
What the hell are you doing?!
You can't park here!
Why not?  Is this not a reasonable place to park?
We want this car parked!  We drove all the way from L.A. for this show. We're friends of Debbie's.
Holy shit!  They almost had us there!  That was quick thinking.
What do you expect?  I'm your attorney.  You owe me five bucks. I want it now.
This was Bob Hope's turf.  Frank Sinatra's.  Spiro Agnew's.  It seemed inappropriate to be haggling about nickel/dime bribes for the parking lot attendant.
Sorry, full house.
Goddamnit, we drove all the way from L.A.
I said there are no seats left... at any price.
Fuck seats!  We're old friends of Debbie's.  I used to romp with her.
After a lot of bad noise, he let us in for nothing provided we would stand quietly at the back and not smoke.
Jesus creeping shit!
 Did the mescaline just kick in?  Or was that Debbie Reynolds in a silver Afro wig?!
 We wandered into a fucking time capsule!
 We wandered into a fucking time capsule!
What's this?...
That scum...
SCUM!  I know where you live!  I'll find you and burn down your fucking house!
This is the place.  They'll never fuck with us here.
Where's the ether?  This mescaline isn't working.
Ah, devil ether.  It makes you behave like the village drunkard in some early Irish novel... total loss of all basic motor skills; blurred vision, no balance, numb tongue --  The mind recoils in horror, unable to communicate with the spinal column.  Which is interesting, because you can actually watch yourself behaving in this terrible way, but you can't control it.
You approach the turnstiles and know that when you get there, you have to give the man two dollars or he won't let you inside... but when you get there, everything goes wrong.
Some angry Rotarian shoves you and you think: What's happening here? What's going on?  Then you hear yourself mumbling.
 Dogs fucked the Pope, no fault of mine.  Watch out!... Why money?  My name is Brinks; I was born... Born?
Get sheep over side... women and children to armored car... orders from Captain Zeep.
Ether is the perfect drug for Las Vegas.  In this town they love a drunk.  Fresh meat.  So they put us through the turnstiles and turned us loose inside.
Bazooko Circus is what the whole hep world would be doing Saturday night if the Nazis had won the war. This was the Sixth Reich.
A drug person can learn to cope with things like seeing their dead grandmother crawling up their leg with a knife in her teeth but, nobody should be asked to handle this trip.
Stand in front of this fantastic machine, my friend.  For just 99 cents your likeness will appear 200 hundred feet tall on a screen above downtown Las Vegas.
99 cents more for a voice message. Say whatever you want, fella. They'll hear you, don't worry about that.  Remember, you'll be 200 feet tall!
Step right up!  Shoot the pasties off the nipples of this ten-foot bull-dyke and win a cotton candy goat!
I hate to say this, but this place is getting to me.  I think I'm getting The Fear.
Nonsense.  We came here to find the American Dream, and now we're right in the vortex you want to quit. You must realize that we've found the Main Nerve.
That's what gives me The Fear.
Look over there.  Two women fucking a Polar Bear.
Please, don't tell me those things... Not now. (signals the waitress for two Wild Turkeys) This is my last drink.  How much money can you lend me?
Not much.  Why?
I have to go.
GO?
Yes.  Leave the country.  Tonight.
Calm down.  You'll be straight in a few hours.
No.  This is serious.  One more hour in this town and I'll kill somebody!
OK.  I'll lend you some money. Let's go outside and see how much we have left.
Can we make it?
That depends on how many people we fuck with between here and the door.
I want to leave fast.
OK.  Lets pay this bill and get up very slowly.  It's going to be a long walk. (signals waitress who comes over)
 Do they pay you to screw that bear?
What?
He's just kidding.  Come on, Doc -- lets go downstairs and gamble.
When does this thing stop?
It won't stop.  It's not ever going to stop.
Don't move you'll come around.
You fell.  Let's go.
OK.  You stay here and go to jail. I'm leaving.
Did you see that?  Some sonofabitch kicked me in the back.
Probably the bartender.  He wanted to stomp you for what you said to the waitress.
Good God!  Let's get out of here! Where's the elevator?
 Don't go near that elevator. That's just what they want us to do... trap us in a steel box and take us down to the basement.
Don't run.  They'd like any excuse to shoot us.
 You drive!  I think there's something wrong with me.
Those bastards have changed the lock on us.  They probably searched the room.  Jesus, we're finished!
Bolt everything!  Use all chains!
Where did this one come from?
That's Lacerda's room.
Yeah... I thought we might need it...
What for?
Let's go up there and blast him out of bed with the fire hose.
No, we should leave the poor bastard alone.  I get the feeling that he's avoiding us for some reason.
Don't kid yourself.  That Portuguese son of a bitch is dangerous.  He's watching us like a hawk.
He told me he was turning in early...
That dirty bastard!  I knew it! He's got hold of my woman!
 That little blonde groupie with the film crew?  You think he sodomized her?
That's right, laugh about it!  You goddamn honkies are all the same!
Where'd you get that knife?
Room service sent it up.  I wanted something to cut the limes.
What limes?
They didn't have any.  They don't grow in the desert.
That dirty toad bastard!  I knew I should have taken him out when I had the chance.  Now he has her.
I remember the girl.  We'd had a problem with her in the elevator a few hours earlier: my attention had made a fool of himself.
Class?  What the fuck do you mean?
Use me?
Mother of God, I thought.  Here it comes.
 I ride the BIG ONES!  The really BIG fuckers!
The Vincent Black Shadow.  We're with the Factory Team.
Bullshit.
Wait a minute, pardon me lady, but I think there's some kind of ignorant chicken-sucker in this car who needs his face cut open.  You cheap honky faggots!  Which one of you wants to get cut?!
Spooked!  They were spooked!  Like rats in a death cage!
Goddamn.  It's serious now.  That girl understood.  She fell in love with me.
Let's go up there and castrate that fucker!
 Have you made a deal with him?  Did you put him on to her?
 Look you better put that blade away and get your head straight.  I have to put the car in the lot.
One of the things you learn, after years of dealing with drug people, is that you can turn your back on a person, but never turn your back on a drug.  Especially when it's waving a razor-sharp hunting knife in your eyes.
Las Vegas at dawn.  The racers are still asleep, the dust is still on the desert, fifty thousand dollars in prize money, slumbers darkly in the office safe at Del Webb's fabulous Mint Hotel...
Who are these people?  These faces! Where do they come from?  They look like caricatures of used car dealers from Dallas. 
And, sweet Jesus, there are a hell of a lot of them at four-thirty on a Monday morning.  Still humping the American dream, that vision of the big winner somehow emerging from the last minute predawn chaos of a stale Vegas casino.
You bastards!
No.  Calm down.  Learn to ENJOY losing.
You ate ALL THIS ACID?
 You evil son of a bitch.  You better hope there's some Thorazine in that bag, because if there's not, you're in bad trouble.
Music!  Turn it up.  Put that tape on.
What tape?
Jefferson Airplane. "White Rabbit." I want a rising sound.
You're doomed.  I'm leaving here in two hours and then they're going to come up here and beat the mortal shit out of you with big saps. Right there in that tub.
I dig my own graves.  Green water and the White Rabbit.  Put it on.
OK.  But do me one last favor, will you.  Can you give me two hours? That's all I ask -- just two hours to sleep before tomorrow.  I suspect it's going to be a very difficult day.
 Of course, I'm your attorney, I'll give you all the time you need, at my normal rates: $45 an hour -- but you'll be wanting a cushion, so, why don't you just lay one of those $100 bills down there beside the radio, and fuck off?
How about a check?
Whatever's right.
Help!  You bastard!  I need help!
Shit, he's killing himself!
 I want that fucking radio!
Don't touch it!  Get back in that tub!
Back the tape up.  I need it again! Let it roll!  Just as high as the fucker can go!  And when it comes to that fantastic note where the rabbit bites its own head off, I want you to THROW THAT FUCKING RADIO INTO THE TUB WITH ME!
Not me.  It would blast you through the wall -- stone dead in ten seconds and they'd make me explain it!
BULLSHIT!  Don't make me use this.
Jesus.
Do it!  I want to get HIGHER!
Okay.  You're right.  This is probably the only solution. (holds the PLUGGED IN TAPE/RADIO over the tub) Let me make sure I have it all lined up.  You want me to throw this thing into the tub when "WHITE RABBIT" peaks.  Is that it?
Fuck yes.  I was beginning to think I was going to have to go out and get one of the goddamn maids to do it.
Are you ready?
MACE!  YOU WANT THIS?
You bastard!  You'd do that, wouldn't you?
 Why worry?  You'll like it.  Nothing in the world like a Mace high. Forty-five minutes on your knees with the dry heaves...
You cheap honky sonofabitch...
Why not?  Hell, just a minute ago, you were asking me to kill you! And now you want to kill me!  What I should do, goddamnit, is call the police!
The cops?
There's no choice.  I wouldn't dare go to sleep with you wandering around with a head full of acid and wanting to slice me up with that goddamn knife!
 Who said anything about slicing you up?  I just wanted to carve a little Z on your forehead.  Nothing serious.
 Get back in that tub.  Eat some reds and try to calm down.  Smoke some grass, shoot some smack -- shit, do whatever you have to do, but let me get some rest.
Hell, yes.  You really need some sleep.  You have to work.  Goddamn. What a bummer.  Try to rest.  Don't let me keep you up.
Ignore the nightmare in the bathroom. Just another ugly refugee from the Love Generation.
My attorney had never been able to accept the notion -- often espoused by former drug abusers -- that you can get a lot higher without drugs than with them.  And neither have I, for that matter.
I recall one night in the Matrix. There I was -- a victim of the Drug Explosion.  A natural street freak, just eating whatever came by.
Anybody want some L...S...D...?  I got all the makin's right here. All I need is a place to cook.
I decided to eat only half at first. Good thinking.  But I spilled the rest on the sleeve of my red Pendleton shirt.
What's the trouble?
 Well, all this white stuff on my sleeve is LSD.
With a bit of luck his life was ruined -- forever thinking that just behind some narrow door in all his favorite bars, men in red Pendleton shirts are getting incredible kicks from things he'll never know.
Strange memories on this nervous night in Las Vegas. (he gets up, pours himself a drink) Has it been five years?  Six?  It seems like a lifetime -- the kind of peak that never comes again. San Francisco in the middle sixties was a very special time and place to be a part of.  But no explanation, no mix of words or music or memories can touch that sense of knowing that you were there and alive in that corner of time and the world.  Whatever it meant.
THERE WAS MADNESS IN ANY DIRECTION, AT ANY HOUR... YOU COULD STRIKE SPARKS ANYWHERE.  THERE WAS A FANTASTIC UNIVERSAL SENSE THAT WHATEVER WE WERE DOING WAS RIGHT, THAT WE WERE WINNING.  AND THAT, I THINK, WAS THE HANDLE -- THAT SENSE OF INEVITABLE VICTORY OVER THE FORCES OF OLD AND EVIL.  NOT IN ANY MEAN OR MILITARY SENSE; WE DIDN'T NEED THAT.  OUR ENERGY WOULD SIMPLY prevail.  We had all the momentum; we were riding the crest of a high and beautiful wave...
So now, less than five years later, you can go up on a steep hill in Las Vegas and look west, and with the right kind of eyes you can almost see the high water mark -- that place where the wave finally broke and rolled back.
The decision to flee came suddenly. Or maybe not.
Room service!
Maybe I'd planned it all along -- subconsciously waiting for the right moment.  The bill was a factor, I think.  Because I had no money to pay for it.
Our room service tabs had been running somewhere between $29 and $36 per hour, for forty-eight consecutive hours.  Incredible. How could it happen?
But by the time I asked this question, there was no one around to answer.
My attorney was gone.  He must have sensed trouble.
Panic.
It crept up my spine like first rising vibes of an acid frenzy. All these horrible realities began to dawn on me.
Here I was, alone in Las Vegas, with this goddamned incredibly expensive car, completely twisted on drugs, no cash, no story for the magazine.  And on top of everything else I had a gigantic goddamn hotel bill to deal with.
I didn't even know who had won the race.  Maybe nobody.
 How would Horatio Alger have handled this situation?
Stay calm.  Stay calm.  I'm a relatively respectable citizen -- a multiple felon, perhaps, but certainly not dangerous.
Luckily, I had taken the soap and grapefruit and other luggage out to the car a few hours earlier.  Now it was only a matter of slipping the noose...
MR. DUKE!
Mr. Duke!  We've been looking for you!
The game was up!  They had me.
 Well, why not?  Many fine books have been written in prison.
Sir?  This telegram came for you. Actually, it isn't for you.  It's for somebody named Thompson, but it says 'care of Raoul Duke'.  does that make sense?
 Yes... It makes sense.
I checked the register for this man Thompson.  We don't show him but I figured he might be part of your team.
He is.  Don't worry, I'll get it to him.
What confused us was Dr. Gonzo's signature on the telegram from Los Angeles.  When we knew he was right here in the hotel.
You did the right thing.  Never try to understand a press message. About half the time we use codes -- especially with Dr. Gonzo.
Tell me.  When will the doctor be awake?
 Awake?  What do you mean?
 Well... the manager, Mr. Heem, would like to meet him.  Nothing unusual.  Mr. Heem likes to meet all our large accounts... put them on a personal basis... just a chat and a handshake, you understand.
Of course.  But if I were you, I'd leave the Doctor alone until after he's eaten breakfast.  He's a very crude man.
But he will be available?  Perhaps later this morning?
Look.  That telegram was all scrambled.  It was actually from Thompson, not to him.  Western Union must have gotten the names reversed.  I have to get going.  I have to get out to the track.
There's no hurry!  The race is over!
 Not for me.
Let's have lunch!
Righto!
Jesus, bad waves of paranoia, madness, fear and loathing -- intolerable vibrations in this place.  Get out!  The weasels were closing in.  I could smell the ugly brutes.  Flee!
Do me one last favor Lord: just give me five more high-speed hours before you bring the hammer down; just let me get rid of this goddamn car and off of this horrible desert.
You evil bastard!  This is your work!  You'd better take care of me, Lord... because if you don't you're going to have me on your hands.
Few people understand the psychology of dealing with a Highway Traffic Cop.  Your normal speeder will panic and immediately pull over to the side.  This is wrong.
It arouses contempt in the cop heart.
Make the bastard chase you.  He will follow.  But he won't know what to make of your blinker signal that says you're about to turn right.
This is to let him know you're looking for a proper place to pull off and talk.
It will take him a moment to realize that he is about to make 180 degree turn at speed... but you will be ready for it, braced for the G's and the fast heel toe work.
Just what the FUCK did you think you were doing?!
May I see your license.
Of course, officer.
I knew I was fucked.
Could I have that, please?
Why not?  It was getting warm anyway.
You realize...
Yeah.  I know.  I'm guilty.  I understand that.  I knew it was a crime but I did it anyway.  Shit, why argue?  I'm a fucking criminal.
That's a strange attitude.
You know -- I get the feeling you could use a nap.  There's a rest area up ahead.  Why don't you pull over and sleep a few hours?
A nap won't help.  I've been awake for too long -- three or four nights.  I can't even remember.  If I go to sleep now, I'm dead for twenty hours.
Okay.  Here's how it is.  What goes into my book, as of noon, is that I apprehended you... for driving too fast, and advised you to proceed no further than the next rest area... your stated destination, right? Where you plan to take a long nap. Do I make myself clear?
How far is Baker?  I was hoping to stop there for lunch.
Not my jurisdiction.  The city limits are two point two miles beyond the rest area.  Can you make it that far?
I'll try.  I've been wanting to go to Baker for a long time.  I've heard a lot about it.
Excellent seafood.  With a mind like yours, you'll probably want to try the land-crab.  Try the Majestic Diner.
I felt raped.  The Pig had done me on all fronts, and now he was going off to chuckle about it -- on the west side of town, waiting for me to make a run for L.A.
Great Jesus, it's him.
They've nailed me!  I'm trapped in some stinking desert crossroads called Baker.  I don't have much time.  The fuckers are closing in. They'll hunt me down like a beast!
Who?  You sound a little paranoid.
You bastard!  I need a lawyer immediately!
What are you doing in Baker? Didn't you get my telegram?
What?  Fuck telegrams.  I'm in trouble.  You worthless bastard. I'll cripple your ass for this! All that shit in the car is yours! You understand that?  When I finish testifying out here you'll be disbarred!
You're supposed to be in Vegas.  We have a suite at the Flamingo.  I was just about to leave for the airport.
You brainless scumbag!  You're supposed to be covering the National District Attorney's conference!  I made all the reservations... rented a white Cadillac convertible... the whole thing is arranged!  What the hell are you doing out there in the middle of the fucking desert?
Never mind.  It's all a big joke. I'm actually sitting beside the pool at the Flamingo.  I'm talking from a portable phone.  Some dwarf brought it out from the casino.  I have total credit!  Can you grasp that?  Don't come anywhere near this place! Foreigners aren't welcome here!
Well.  This is how the world works.
All energy flows according to the whims of the Great Magnet.
What a fool I was to defy Him.
Never cross the Great Magnet.  I understood this now... (another blast from the gun) ... and with understanding came a sense of almost terminal relief.
I had to get rid of The Shark.  Too many people might recognize it... ...especially the Vegas Police.  Luckily, my credit card was still technically valid.
This was a superior machine -- ten grand worth of gimmicks and high price special effects.  The rear windows leapt up with a touch like frogs in a dynamited pond.  The dashboard was full of esoteric lights and dials and meters that I would never understand.
If the Pigs were gathering in Vegas, I felt the Drug Culture should be represented as well... and there was a certain bent appeal in the notion of running a savage burn on one Las Vegas hotel and then just wheeling across town and checking into another.
Me and a thousand ranking cops from all over America.  Why not?  Move confidently into their midst.
My arrival was badly timed.
What do you mean I'm too late to register?  I'm a police chief. From Michigan.  Look, fella, I told you.  I have a postcard here that says I have reservations in this hotel.
 I'm sorry, sir.  You're on the "late list." Your reservations were transferred to the... ah... Moonlight Motel, which is out on Paradise Boulevard...
I've already paid for my goddamn room!
It's actually a very fine place of lodging and only sixteen blocks from here, with its own pool and...
You dirty little faggot!  Call the manager!  I'm tired of listening to this dogshit!
 I'm so sorry, sir.  May I call you a cab?
Of course, I could hear what the Clerk was really saying...
 Listen, you fuzzy little shithead -- I've been fucked around, in my time, by a fairly good cross- section of mean-tempered rule-crazy cops and now it's MY turn. "Fuck you, officer, I'm in charge here, and I'm telling you we don't have room for you."
Say.  I hate to interrupt, but I wonder if maybe I could just sort of slide through and get out of your way.  Name's Raoul Duke -- Raoul Duke.  My attorney made the reservation.
Certainly, Mr. Duke!
My bags are out there in that white Cadillac convertible.  Can you have someone drive it around to the room?
Oh, and could I get a quart of Wild Turkey, two fifths of Baccardi, and a night's worth of ice delivered to my room, please?
Don't worry about a thing, sir. Just enjoy your stay.
Well, thank you.
Ah, home at last!
You degenerate pig!
It can't be helped.  This is Lucy.  You know--like "Lucy In The Sky With Diamonds."
Lucy!  Lucy, be cool, goddamnit! Remember what happened at the airport!  No more of that, okay?
Lucy... this is my client.  This is Mr. Duke, the famous journalist. He's paying for this suite, Lucy. He's on our side.
Mr. Duke is my friend.  He loves artists.
Lucy paints portraits of Barbra Streisand.
I drew these from TV.
Fantastic.  She came all the way down here from Montana just to give these portraits to Barbra.  We're going over to the Americana Hotel tonight to meet her backstage...
I desperately needed peace, rest, sanctuary.  I hadn't counted on this.  Finding my attorney on acid and locked into some kind of preternatural courtship.
Well, I guess they brought the car round by now.  LET'S GET THE STUFF OUT OF THE TRUNK.
Absolutely, LET'S GET THE STUFF.  Now, we'll be right back.  Don't answer the phone if it rings.
 God bless.
WELL?  What are your plans?
Plans?
Lucy.
 Shit.  I met her on the plane and I had all that acid.  You know, those little blue barrels. I gave her a cap before I realized... she's a religious freak... Jesus, she's never even had a drink.
Well... It'll probably work out. We can keep her loaded and peddle her ass at the drug convention.
Listen, she's running away from home for something like the fifth time in six months.  It's terrible.
She's perfect for this gig.  These cops will go fifty bucks a head to beat her into submission and then gang fuck her.  We can set her up in one of these back street motels, hang pictures of Jesus all over the room, then turn these pigs loose on her... Hell she's strong; she'll hold her own.
Jesus Christ.  I knew you were sick but I never expected to hear you actually say that kind of stuff.
It's straight economics.  This girl is a god-send.  Shit, she can make us a grand a day.
NO!  Stop talking like that.
I figure she can do about four at a time.  Christ, if we keep her full of acid that's more like two grand a day.  Maybe three.
You filthy bastard.  I should cave your fucking head in.
In a few hours, she'll probably be sane enough to work herself into a towering Jesus-based rage at the hazy recollection of being seduced by some kind of cruel Samoan who fed her liquor and LSD, dragged her to a Vegas hotel room and savagely penetrated every orifice in her body with his throbbing, uncircumcised member.
NO!  I felt sorry for the girl, I wanted to help her!
You'll go straight to the gas chamber.  And even if you manage to beat that, they'll send you back to Nevada for Rape and Consensual Sodomy.  She's got to go.
Shit, it doesn't pay to try to help somebody these days.
The only alternative was to take her out to the desert and feed her remains to the lizards.  But, it seemed a bit heavy for the thing we were trying to protect: My attorney.
We have to cut her loose.  She's got two hundred dollars.  And we can always call the cops up there in Montana, where she lives, and turn her in.
What?... What kind of goddamn monster are you?
It just occurred to me, that she has no witnesses.  Anything that she says about us is completely worthless.
Us?
Hotel Americana?  I need a reservation.  For my niece.  Listen, I need her treated very gently. She's an artist, and might seem a trifle highstrung...
Okay, Lucy, it's time to go meet Barbra...
I felt like a Nazi, but it had to be done.
Lucy was a potentially fatal millstone on both our necks.  There was absolutely no choice but to cut her adrift and hope her memory was fucked.
Well that's that.  Take off slowly. Don't attract attention.
I gave the cabbie an extra ten bucks to make sure she gets there safe.  Also, I told him I'd be there myself in an hour, and if she wasn't, I'd come back out here and rip his lungs out.
That's good.  You can't be subtle in this town.
As your attorney, I advise you to tell me where you put the goddamn mescaline.
Maybe we should take it easy tonight.
Right.  Let's find a good seafood restaurant and eat some red salmon. I feel a powerful lust for red salmon...
Come on, we're going to be late.
This goddamn mescaline.  Why the fuck can't they make it a little less pure?  Maybe mix it up with Rolaids or something.
 On behalf of the prosecuting attorneys of this county, I welcome you to the Third National DA's Conference on Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs.
 I saw these bastards in Easy Rider, but I didn't believe they were real. Not like this.  Not hundreds of them!
They're actually nice people when you get to know them.
Man, I know these people in my goddamn blood!
Don't mention that word around here. You'll get them excited.
This is a fucking nightmare.
Right.  Sure as hell some dope- dealing bomb freak is going to recognize you and put the word out that you're partying with a thousand cops.
We must come to terms with the Drug Culture in the country... country... country...
The reefer butt is called a "roach," because it resembles a cockroach... cockroach... cockroach...
 What the fuck are these people talking about?  You'd have to be crazy on acid to think a joint looked like a goddamn cockroach!
It was clear that we had stumbled into a prehistoric gathering.
Now, there are four states of being in the cannabis, or marijuana, society: Cool, Groovy, Hip, and Square.  The square is seldom if ever cool.  He is not "with it," that is, he doesn't know "what's happening." But if he manages to figure it out, he moves up a notch to "hip."
And if he can bring himself to approve of what is happening, he becomes "groovy." After that, with much luck and perseverance, he can rise to the rank of "cool." A cool guy... cool guy... cool guy...
I really don't know, but at her age, if she did smoke grass, she'd have one hell of a trip!
I know a hell of a lot better ways to waste my time than listening to this bullshit.
Fuck you!  I have to get out!  I don't belong here!
KNOW YOUR DOPE FIEND!  YOUR LIFE MAY DEPEND ON IT!  You will not be able to see his eyes because of Tea-Shades, but his knuckles will be white from inner tension...
... and his pants will be crusted with semen from constantly jacking off when he can't find a rape victim...
Pardon me, I feel sick.
He will stagger and babble when questioned.  He will not respect your badge.  The Dope Fiend fears nothing.  He will attack, for no reason, with every weapon at his command -- including yours...
Sorry, sick... Beg pardon!  Feeling sick...
BEWARE.  Any officer apprehending a suspected marijuana addict should use all necessary force immediately. One stitch in time [on him] will usually save nine on you.
I'm a whiskey man myself.  We don't have much trouble from drugs where I come from...
You will.  One of these nights you'll wake up and find a junkie tearing your bedroom apart.
Naw!
They'll climb right into your bedroom and sit on your chest with big Bowie knives.  They might even sit on your wife's chest.  Put the blade right down on her throat.
Not down in my parts.
 Rum and ice, please.
 You're another one of these California boys.  Your friend here's been tellin' us about dope fiends.
They're everywhere.  Nobody's safe. And sure as hell not in the South. They like warm weather... You'd never believe it.  In L.A. it's out of control.  First it was drugs, now it's witchcraft.
Witchcraft?  Shit, you can't mean it!
Read the newspapers.
Man, you don't know trouble until you have to face down a bunch of these addicts gone crazy for human sacrifice!
Naw!  That's science fiction stuff!
Not where we operate.
Hell, in Malibu alone, these goddamn Satan worshippers kill six or eight people every day.  All they want is the blood.  They'll take people right off the street if they have to.
Just the other day we had a case where they grabbed a girl right out of a McDonald's hamburger stand. She was a waitress, about sixteen years old... with a lot of people watching, too!
What happened?  What did they do to her?
Do?  Jesus Christ, man.  They chopped her goddamn head off right there in the parking lot!  Then they cut all kinds of holes in her head and sucked out the blood!
 And nobody did anything?
What could they do?  The guy that took the head was about six-seven, and maybe three-hundred pounds.  He was packing two Lugers, and the others had M-16s.
They just ran back out into Death Valley -- you know, where Manson turned up...
Like big lizards.
... and every one of them stacked naked...
Naked!?
Naked.
Yeh, naked!... except for the weapons.
They were all veterans.
Veterans?!!!?
Yeh.  The big guy used to be a major in the Marines.
A major!
We know where he lives, but we can't get near the house.
Naw!  Not a major.
He wanted the pineal gland.
Really?
That's how he got so big.  When he quit the Marines he was just a little guy.
Usually, it's whole families. During the night.  Most of them don't even wake up until they feel their heads going -- and then, of course, it's too late.
Happens every day.
Three more rums.  Plenty of ice. Maybe a handful of lime chunks.
Are you guys with the police convention upstairs?
We sure are, Miss.
I thought so.  I never heard that kind of talk around here before. Jesus Christ!  How do you guys stand that kind of work?
 We like it.  It's groovy.
What's wrong with you?  Hell, somebody has to do it.
Hurry up with those drinks.  We're thirsty.  Only two rums.  Make mine a Bloody Mary.
 Hell, I really hate to hear this. Because everything that happens in California seems to get down our way, sooner or later.  Mostly Atlanta.  But that was back when the goddamn bastards were peaceful. All we had to do was to keep 'em under surveillance.  They didn't roam around much... But now Jesus, it seems nobody's safe.
 You're going to need to take the bull by the horns -- go to the mat with this scum.
What do you mean by that?
You know what I mean.  We've done it before and we can damn well do it again!
Cut their goddamn heads off.  Every one of them.  That's what we're doing in California.
 WHAT?
Sure.  It's all on the Q.T., but everybody who matters is with us all the way down the line.
We keep it quiet.  It's not the kind of thing you'd want to talk about upstairs.  Not with the press around.
 Hell, no.  We'd never hear the goddamn end of it.
Dobermans don't talk.
What?
Sometimes it's easier to just rip out the backstraps.
They'll fight like hell if you try to take the head without the dogs.
God almighty!  I don't think I should tell my wife about this.  She'd never understand. You know how women are.
Just be thankful your heart is young and strong.
What's the message?  My light is blinking.
Ah, yes.  Mr. Duke?  You have one message: "Call Lucy at the Americana Hotel, room 1600."
Holy shit!
Lucy called.
What?
Mr. Duke?  Hello, Mr. Duke, I'm sorry we were cut off a moment ago... I thought I should call again, because I was wondering...
WHAT?  What was that crazy bitch said to him?  There's a war on, man!  People are being killed!
Killed?
IN VIETNAM!  ON THE GODDAMN TELEVISION!
Oh... yes... yes... This terrible war.  When will it end?
Tell me.  What do you want?
The woman who left that message for you sounded very disturbed.  I think she was crying...
Crying?  Why was she crying?
Well, uh.  She didn't say Mr. Duke. But since I know you're here with the Police Convention...
Look, you want to be gentle with that woman if she ever calls again. We're watching her very carefully... this woman has been into laudanum. It's a controlled experiment, but I suspect we'll need your cooperation before this thing is over.
 Well, certainly... We're always happy to cooperate with the police...
Don't worry.  You're protected. Just treat this poor woman like you'd treat any other human being in trouble.
What?  Ah... yes, yes, I see what you mean... Yes... so, you'll be responsible then?
Of course.  And now I have to get back to the news.  Send up some ice.
Good work.  They'll treat us like goddamn lepers after that.
 Lucy is looking for you.
 No, she's looking for you.
Me?
She really flipped over you.  The only way I could get rid of her was by saying you were taking me out to the desert for a showdown -- that you wanted me out of the way so you could have her all to yourself.  I guess she figures you won.  That phone message wasn't for me, was it?
Yessir, those two men in the dock are the ones who gave me the LSD and took me to the hotel.
I don't know for sure what they done to me, but I remember it was horrible.
Twenty years... and Double Castration!
Wait!  You can't leave me alone in this snake pit.  This room is in my name.
OK, goddamnit!... Look... I'll call her.  I'll get her off our backs. You're right.  She's my problem.
It's gone too far.
Relax.  Let me handle this. (dials the PHONE, snaps angrily at DUKE) You'd make a piss-poor lawyer. ...Room 1600, please.  As your attorney, I advise you not to worry.  Take a hit out of that little brown bottle in my shaving kit.
What is this?
You won't need much.  Just a little tiny taste, that stuff makes pure mescaline seem like ginger-beer. Adrenochrome.
Adrenochrome...
 Hi, Lucy?  Yeah, it's me.  I got your message...what?  Hell, no, I taught the bastard a lesson he'll never forget... what?  No, not dead, but he won't be bothering anybody for a while.  Yeah.  I left him out there, I stomped him, then pulled all his teeth out...
I remember thinking, "Jesus, what a terrible thing to lay on somebody with a head full of acid."
 But here's the problem.  That bastard cashed a bad check downstairs and gave you as a reference.  They'll be looking for both of you.  Yeah, I know, but you can't judge a book by its cover, Lucy.  Some people are just basically rotten... Anyway, the last thing you want to do is call this hotel again; they'll trace the call and put you straight behind bars... no, I'm moving to the Tropicana right away.  I have to go, they've got the phone tapped. Yeah, I know, it was horrible, but it's all over now... OH MY GOD! THEY'RE KICKING THE DOOR DOWN! (throws the PHONE down; shouts) No!  Get away from me!  I'm innocent! It was Duke!  I swear to God! 
 No, I don't know where she is. You'll never catch Lucy!  She's gone!  I swear, I don't know where she is!  DON'T PUT THAT THING ON ME! 
Well.  That's that.  She's probably stuffing herself down the incinerator about now.  That's the last we should be hearing from Lucy. (fumbling with the hash pipe) Where's the opium?
I remember slumping on the bed, his performance had given me a bad jolt. For a moment I thought his mind had snapped -- that he actually believed he was being attacked by invisible enemies.  But the room was quiet again.
Where'd you get this?
Never mind, it's absolutely pure.
Jesus... what kind of monster client have you picked up this time? There's only one source for this stuff -- the adrenaline gland from a living human body!
I know, but the guy didn't have any cash to pay me.  He's one of these Satanism freaks.  He offered me human blood -- said it would take me higher than I've ever been in my life. (laughs -- struts round DUKE -- eyes bright with expectation) I thought he was kidding, so I told him I'd just as soon have an ounce or so of pure adrenochrome -- or maybe just a fresh adrenaline gland to chew on.
I could already feel the stuff working on me -- the first wave felt like a combination of mescaline and methedrine -- maybe I should take a swim, I thought...
Yeah, they nailed this guy for child molesting.  He swore he didn't do it. "Why should I fuck with children?" he says. "They're too small." Christ, werewolf is entitled to legal counsel.  I didn't dare turn the creep down. He might have picked up a letter opener and gone after my pineal gland!
Why not?  We should get some of that.  Just eat a big handful and see what happens.
Some of what?
 Extract of pineal!
 Sure.  That's a good idea.  One whiff of that shit would turn you into something out of a goddamn medical encyclopedia.
Man, your head would swell up like a watermelon, you'd probably gain about a hundred pounds in two hours...
Right!
... grow claws... bleeding warts.
Yes!
... then you'd notice about six huge hairy tits swelling up on your back...
Fantastic!
you'd go blind... your body would turn to wax... they'd have to put you in a wheelbarrow and...
Man I'll try about anything; but I'd never touch a pineal gland.
FINISH THE FUCKING STORY!  What happened?!  What about the glands?
Jesus, that stuff got right on top of you, didn't it.
Maybe you could just... shove me into the pool, or something...
If I put you in the pool right now, you'd sink like a goddamn stone. You took too much.  Jesus, look at your face, you're about to explode.
Don't try and fight it, or you'll get brain bubbles.  Strokes, aneurysms.  You'll just wither up and die.
Sacrifice... sacrifice... sacrifice...
What kind of rat-bastard psychotic would play that song -- right now, at this moment?
When I came to the general back alley ambiance of the suite was so rotten, so incredibly foul.  How long had I been lying there?  Hours? Days?  Months?  All these signs of violence.  What had happened?
There was evidence in this room of excessive consumption of almost every type of drug known to civilized man since 1544 AD.
But what kind of addict would need all these coconut husks and crushed honeydew rinds?  Would the presence of junkies account for all these uneaten french fries?  These puddles of glazed ketchup on the bureau?  Maybe so, but then why all this booze?  And these crude pornographic photos smeared with mustard that had dried to a hard yellow crust...
These were not the hoof prints of your normal god-fearing junkie.  It was too savage, too aggressive.
Grim memories and bad flashbacks.
Something ugly had happened.  I was sure of it...
Please... please... I'm only the maid.  I didn't mean nothin!...
 YOU'RE UNDER ARREST!
 She must have used a pass key.  I was polishing my shoes in the closet when I noticed her sneaking in-so I took her.
 What made you do it?  Who paid you off?
Nobody.  I'm the maid!
You're lying!  You were after the evidence.  Who put you up to this -- the manager?
I don't know what you're talking about!
Bullshit!  You're just as much a part of it as they are!
Part of what?
The dope ring.  You must know what's going on in this hotel.  Why do you think we're here?
 I know you're cops, but I thought you were just here for that convention.  I swear!  All I wanted to do was clean up the room.  I don't know anything about dope!
Come on, baby don't try to tell us you never heard of the Grange Gorman.
No!  No!  I swear to Jesus I never heard of that stuff!
Maybe she's telling the truth. Maybe she's not part of it.
No!  I swear I'm not!
 In that case, maybe she can help.
Yes!  I'll help you all you need! I hate dope!
So do we, lady.
 I think we should put her on the payroll.  See what she comes up with.
Do you think you can handle it?
What?
One phone call every day.  Just tell us what you've seen.  Don't worry if it doesn't add up, that's our problem.
You'd pay me for that?
You're damn right.  But the first time you say anything about this, to anybody -- you'll go straight to prison for the rest of your life. What's your name?
Alice.  Just ring Linen Service and ask for Alice.
Alright, Alice... you'll be contacted by Inspector Rock. Arthur Rock.  He'll be posing as a politician.
Inspector Rock will pay you.  In cash.  A thousand dollars on the ninth of every month.
Oh Lord!  I'd do just about anything for that!
You and a lot of other people.
The password is: "One Hand Washes The Other." The minute you hear that, you say "I fear nothing."
I fear nothing.
Oh, and don't bother to make up the room.  That way we won't have to risk another of these little incidents, will we?
Whatever you say, gentlemen.  I can't tell you how sorry I am about what happened...
Don't worry, it's all over now. Thank God for the decent people.
Memories of that night are extremely hazy...
There is a definite obligation, when you boom around Vegas in a white Coupe de Ville, to maintain a certain style.
Hey!  Is that your car?
Sure is.
Any of you folks want the milk? We're after the meat.  This is honest coconut essence.  Real meat.
Meat, hell!  Look what you're doing to that car!
Fuck the car.  They should make these things with a goddamn FM radio.
Yeh... This foreign made crap -- is sucking our dollar balance dry!
Someone should stop them!
You poor fools don't understand, do you?  This car is the property of the World Bank!  That money goes to ITALY!
Somebody should call the police!
Police?  Are you people crazy?
You folks every heard of ole Patrick Henry?  Know what he said?!
 GIVE ME LIBERTY OR GIVE ME DEATH!
In Samoa we LOVE THE CONSTITUTION!
Bullshit.
Call the goddamn police!
Look what they've done to that beautiful car!
This crowd is not rational.  They can't relate to us.  Let's go!
You people voted for Hubert Humphrey! You killed Jesus!
The crowd broke ranks.  Nobody wants to be run over by a Coupe de Ville.
The manager told me a story about the owner of this place...about how he always wanted to run away and join the circus when he was a kid. Well, now the bastard has his own circus, and a license to steal, too.
You're right -- he's the model.
Absolutely!  Pure Horatio Alger... Say...
Holy God!, how did this happen?
They beat the shit out of it.
The top's completely jammed!
Yeah, something's wrong with the motor...
No, no.  Shit...
Forget it, he just attacked an old man... he took a bite out of the bartender's head!  The cops took the ape away.
Goddamnit!  What's the bail?  I want that ape!  I've already reserved two first-class seats on the plane.
There was every reason to believe that we had been heading for trouble, that we'd pushed our luck a bit far...
Hey there!  You folks want to buy some heroin?
Hey, honkies!  Goddamnit, I'm serious.  I want to sell you some pure fucking smack!
Cheap heroin!  This is the real stuff!  You won't get hooked.  I just got back from Vietnam!  This is scag, folks.  Pure scag!
Shoot!  Fuck!  Scag!  Blood! Heroin!  Rape!  Cheap!  Communist! Jab it right in your fucking eyeballs!
 Back door beauty!
The mentality of Las Vegas is so grossly atavistic that a really massive crime often slips by unrecognized.
The possibility of physical and mental collapse is very real... No sympathy for the devil; keep that in mind.  Buy the ticket, take the ride...
Shit!  Faggot!  Bastard!
North Vegas is where you go when you've fucked up once too often on The Strip and when you're not even welcome in the cut-rate Downtown places.
The North Star Coffee Lounge seemed like a fairly safe haven from our storms.  No hassles, no talk.  Just a place to rest and regroup.  I wasn't even hungry.
There was nothing in the atmosphere of the North Star to put me on my guard...
 Two glasses of ice water with ice.
She looked like a burnt out caricature of Jane Russell.  She was definitely in charge here...
He did it very casually, but I knew that our peace was about to be shattered.
What was that?
What is this?
A napkin.
Don't give me that bullshit!  I know what it means!  You goddamn fat pimp bastard.
That's the name of a horse I used to own.  What's wrong with you?
You sonofabitch!  I take a lot of shit in this place, but I sure as hell don't have to take it off a SPIC PIMP!
Jesus.  I thought, what's happening?
The question mark was emphasized.
 Pay your bill and get the hell out! You want me to call the cops?
Spic pimp?
I was stupid with shock -- not knowing whether to run or start laughing.
 How much is the lemon meringue pie?
Her eyes were turgid with fear, but her brain was functioning on some basic motor survival level.
 Thirty-five cents!
 I mean the whole pie.
Let's say five dollars.  Okay?
The sight of the blade had triggered bad memories.  The glazed look in her eyes said her throat had been cut.  She was still in the grip of paralysis when we left.
Drive!  Drive!  Drive!  We have fifteen fucking minutes to get me on that plane!
What are you doing?  You were supposed to turn back there!
We had abused every rule that Vegas lived by -- burning the locals, abusing the tourists, terrifying the help.  The only chance now, I felt, was the possibility that we'd gone to such excess that nobody in the position to bring the hammer down on us could possibility believe it.
Jesus Christ!!!
Goddamnit!  We're lost!  What are we doing out here on this godforsaken road?
The airport is over there!
Never missed a plane yet.
I'll drop you right next to the plane.
No!  I can't get out!  They'll crucify me.  I'll have to take the blame!
 Ridiculous!  Just say you were hitchhiking to the airport and I picked you up.  You never saw me before.  Shit, this town is full of white Cadillac convertibles.  I plan to go through there so fast that nobody will even glimpse the goddamn license plate.  You ready?
Why not?  But for Christ's sake, just do it fast!
Hey!
Don't take any guff from those swine.  Remember, if you have any trouble you can always send a telegram to the Right People.
Yeah... Explaining my Position. Some asshole wrote a poem about that once...
Probably good advice, if you have shit for brains.
There he goes -- one of God's own prototypes -- a high powered mutant of some kind never even considered for mass production.  Too weird to live and too rare to die.
We are all wired into a survival trip now.  No more of the speed that fueled that 60's.  That was the fatal flaw in Tim Leary's trip. He crashed around America selling "consciousness expansion" without ever giving a thought to the grim meat-hook realities that were lying in wait for all the people who took him seriously...
All those pathetically eager acid freaks who thought they could buy Peace and Understanding for three bucks a hit.  But their loss and failure is ours too.  What Leary took down with him was the central illusion of a whole life-style that he helped create...
... a generation of permanent cripples, failed seekers, who never understood the essential old-mystic fallacy of the Acid Culture: the desperate assumption that somebody... or at least some force -- is tending the light at the end of the tunnel.
There was only one road back to L.A. US Interstate 15, just a flat-out high speed burn through Baker and Barstow and Berdoo, then on to the Hollywood Freeway straight into frantic oblivion: safety, obscurity, just another freak in the Freak Kingdom.
Ahhh.  Wonderful.
What'll you have?
 Ballantine Ale...?
Hard to find it served like this anymore.
Where ya comin' from, young man?
Las Vegas.
A great town, that Vegas.  I bet you had good luck there.  You're the type.
I know.  I'm a triple Scorpio.
 That's a fine combination.  You can't lose.
 Oh, my God!...
 This is my granddaughter...
 Don't worry...  ... and I'm actually the District Attorney from Ignoto County.  Just another good American like yourself.
HOLY SHIT!!!
GOD'S MERCY ON YOU SWINE!
My heart was filled with joy.  I felt like a monster reincarnation of Horatio Alger... a man on the move... and just sick enough to be totally confident.
