My fathers name was John Kinsella. A faded, sepia shot of a dirty little kid on a farm.
Its an Irish name. He was born in North Dakota, in 1896... Young man in doughboy uniform.
...and never saw a big city until he came back from France in 1918. Chicago. Tenement. Comiskey Park. Ballgames.
He settled in Chicago, where he quickly learned to live and die with the White Sox. Died a little when they lost the 1919 World Series... Newspaper headlines. Photo of Shoeless Joe Jackson.
...died a lot the following summer when eight members of the team were accused of throwing that Series. Dad  playing ball. At work. Weeding.
He played in the minors for a year or two, but nothing ever came of it. Moved to Brooklyn in 35, married Mom in 38, and was already an old man working at the Naval Yards when I was born in 1949. Ray as an infant. With his father. In front of Ebbets Field in miniature Dodger uniform, etc.
My names Ray Kinsella. Mom died when I was three, and I suppose Dad did the best he could. Instead of Mother Goose, I was put to bed at night to stories of
Babe Ruth, Lou Gehrig...and the great Shoeless Joe Jackson. Dad was a Yankees fan then, so of course I rooted for Brooklyn. But in '58 the Dodgers moved away, so we had to find other things to fight about. We did. And when it came time to go to college, I picked the farthest one from home I could find. Berkeley in the 1960s: hippies, protesters, etc.
This, of course, drove him right up the wail, which I suppose was the point. Officially my major was English, but really it was the Sixties. Ray looking foolish in long hair and tie-dye.
I marched, I smoked some grass, I tried to like sitar music... and I met Annie. Annie: blue jeans, T-shirt, freckles. Their courtship.
The only thing we had in common was that she came from Iowa and I had once heard of Iowa. We moved in together. After graduation, we moved to the Midwest, and stayed with her family as long as we could. Unsmiling American Gothic types.
Almost a full afternoon. The apartment, Ray at different jobs, the wedding.
We rented an apartment and I took a job selling insurance. I also drove a cab and worked in a pizza parlor. Dad died in June of 1 74. Annie and I got married that fail. Baby pictures.
A few years later Karin was born. She smelled weird, but we loved her anyway. Then Annie got the crazy idea that she could talk me into buying a farm.
I'm thirty-eight years old and I'm about to become a farmer. I love my family, I love baseball, and I miss New York. Moving in on Ray's face.
But until I heard The Voice...I'd never done a crazy thing in my whole life.
'If you build it, he will come.' Ray looks up and around, but sees nothing that could be the source of this sound. All around him are empty fields. He stands quietly for a few moments, then goes back to work.
'If you build it, he will come.' Ray jerks his head in all directions to see where this voice is coming from, but again, he sees nothing unusual -- just the furrowed fields and a few hundred feet away, the massive old farmhouse with a sagging veranda on three sides. On the north veranda is a wooden porch swing where Annie and Karin sit, sipping lemonade and dreaming.
That voice.
What voice?
Just now. Like an announcement. Annie confers briefly with Karin, then calls back to Ray.
We didn't hear anything.
Oh. Ray thinks for a second, then shakes it off, trying to dislodge that thought from his mind, and gets back to work.
'If you build it, he will come.' Again, he bolts upright and looks around. Again, he sees nothing. This is beginning to bug him. He calls:
Okay, you must've heard that.
Sorry. Come on. Dinner. Annie leads Karin inside.
Was there like a sound truck on the highway, or something?
Nape.
Kids with a radio?
Nope. You really hearing voices?
Just one.
Ah. God?
More like a. . .ballpark announcer. Annie shoots him an "Are you kidding?" look. Ray responds with a shrug. They sit down to eat.
What'd it say?
'If you build. it, he will come.'
If you build what, who will come?
Ooh, I hate it when that happens.
Me too.
'If you build it, he will come.' Ray's eyes pop open. He looks at Annie, who does not stir. Without moving, he looks around the room. There is no one there. Very quietly, he crosses to the window and looks out. He whispers out toward the cornfield:
Build what? For who?
Ray?
It's okay, honey, I'm just-talking to the cornfield. He sighs and goes back to bed. Annie cuddles up to him. Her eyes are closed, but Ray's eyes remain open. He is puzzled and concerned.
Why'd you do that? It was funny.
Trust me, Karin, it's not funny. The man is sick. He's very sick. Annie enters, putting on her coat.
Karin, if you're finished, get your coat and school bag. Let's go. Karin bolts from the table.
Uh honey, I'll take her today. I'v-e got some errands in town.
Far out. She takes off her coat and kisses Ray as he takes-the car keys and heads outside. Annie sits at the kitchen table.
What if the voice calls while you're gone?
Take a message.
Right. He exits. She grins, turns on the TV and watches Harvey.
Well, I can't find anything wrong. I could recommend a shrink, but hey, people hear things all the time. I heard a voice once. I was still living with my parents, 'then. They worked in the circus, so I was raised in the circus, and I was training to be a clown. This one day, I'm putting on my little red nose and I hear a voice, tells me to go to medical school. Here I am. Ray is not sure if he should ignore this or run.
In all those years, did you ever...
You hearing voices?
(calls from her
Who's hearing voices?
Ray is. Out in the fields. Now, everyone in the store turns to look at Ray.
No! No, I'm not. Really. But the people still stare. Ray addresses them.
Noises! That darn tractor, it's... (forces a nervous
Well, I'll just get some 3-in-1 oil, that should...
Nice talking to you.
'If you build it, he will come.'
All right, who are you, and what the hell do you want from me?!? All he hears is a faraway echo.
'If you build it, he will come.' This is serious. Ray shakes his head and repeats the words to himself.
If you build it... As he thinks about these words,,some unexplained impulse causes Ray to turn his head deliberately toward a portion of the cornfield between him and the house.
. he will come'.
i5 THE MAN AND THE FIELD 1 5 The dream image flares in again, this time closer to the man. He stands in the middle distance, silhouetted by the lights, and we see he is wearing a uniform of some kind. He starts to turn slowly towards us, but before we can see his face, the image disappears.
.he will come.
Yo, Ray! Food!
Hiya, cutie. Ray climbs up the steps, accepts her kiss, and instead of following her into the house, pulls her down with him onto the swing. He takes-her hand and looks into her eyes.
Annie...
You're not going to believe this...
You heard the voice again.
Wait, this gets better, I just saw a vision.
Get out of here!
I swear to God. An actual vision.
We're going to have to burn you at the stake if this keeps up.
I know.
family is eating dinner. Ray seems lostin thought.
Hey, you don't suppose this could be like an acid flashback, do you?
I never took acid.
Maybe you will someday, and it's a flash forward.
Annie, there's more.
You're subscribing to the Enquirer.
I think I know what 'If you build it, he will come' means.
Oooh, why do I not think this is a good thing?
I think it means if I build a baseball field out there, Shoeless Joe Jackson will get to come back and play ball again.
You're kidding.
Uh uh. She whistles. This is serious.
Yeah.
Boy, I thought my family was crazy, but this...this is the craziest thing I've ever heard.
I know. It's totally nuts.
I mean, Shoeless Joe, he's...
And he's the one they suspended, right?
Right.
He still dead?
Far as I know.
You know what amazes me? No one could ever get you to believe in astrology, or ESP, or reincarnation, or heaven, or any of that stuff. But this...I think this shows real personal growth, Ray.
Thank you. Annie smiles, but sees that Ray is troubled. She hugs him.
Oh, sweetie. I hope you know that even though I make jokes, I'm going to visit you every month wherever they put you. He offers her a weak smile and exits.
Did you know Babe Ruth copied his swing?
If I did, I'd forgotten it. Ray sits up in the dark.
I always felt cheated I never got to see him play. He was supposed to be so graceful, and agile. So to actually get to see him play again...to let him play again, to right an old wrong... He shakes his head in wonder just to think of it. Annie turns on the light.
Wait a minute, Bosco. Are you actually thinking of doing this?
No.
What's your father got to do with this? Ray tries to picture his father in his mind. He speaks softly, but the words obviously have a great deal of meaning for him.
I never forgave him for getting old. By the time he'was as old as I am now, he was ancient. He must have had dreams, but he never did anything about them. For all I know, he may have even heard voices, too, but he sure didn't listen to them. The man never did one spontaneous thing in all the years I knew him. Annie, I'm scared that that's what growing up means. I'm afraid of that happening to me. And something tells me this may be my last chance to do something about it.  I want to build that field. Do you think I'm crazy? She looks at him with great understanding.
Yes. He smiles wanly. She touches his face lovingly.
I also think that if you feel you really have to do this... then you should do it. They hold each other's gaze, and Ray cannot remember when he has loved her so much. He takes her in his arms. Outside their window, the field of corn lies waiting.
Ty Cobb called him the greatest left fielder of all time. His glove was called 'the place where triples go to die.'
Could he hit?
Lifetime 356 average. Third highest in history. Karin whistles.
Why'd they called him Shoeless Joe?
When he was still in the minors, he bought a new pair of spikes and they hurt his feet. About the sixth inning he took them off and played the outfield in just his socks. The other players kidded him, called him Shoeless Joe, and the name stuck.
Then in 1919, his team, the Chicago White Sox, threw the World Series.
What's 'threw'?
They lost it on purpose. Gamblers paid them to.
Except Shoeless Joe.
Nobody could prove anything one way or another, but he was the one guy who probably wasn't in on it.
I mean if he was supposed to be throwing it, how do you explain the fact he hit 375 for the series and didn't commit one error? Huh?
I can't.
Twelve hits, including the series' only home run. And they said he was trying to lose!
It's ridiculous.
That's 855 dollars, sixty-four cents. From O.S., we hear oooh. Ray turns and notices for the first time that a crowd of spectators -- employees and customers -- has been watching him and whispering among themselves. They look at him as if he had two heads. Ray turns his attention back to writing a check for his purchases. He deadpans to Annie:
We'd better notify Mars to send us more money.
That's his problem. And tell him to make it in Earth dollars this time. Ray hands over the check to the open-mouthed cashier.
Thank you. Have a nice day. Ray and Annie turn and leave with Karin. The farmers watch, obviously trying hard to figure this one out.
There's a famous story about when he came out of the courtroom, a kid ran up to him, tugged his sleeve and said 'Say it ain't so, Joe.' And Jackson looked down t him and said 'I'm afraid it is, kid.'
Then what happened?
The Commissioner of Baseball suspended eight of the players -- including the great Shoeless Joe Jackson -- for life.
What's suspend?
They never let him play the game again. They continue to work in silence.
What. What!
You're the fella that plowed under your corn and built a baseball diamond, right?
Yeah. What about it?
 Greatest damn thing I ever heard. The other employees beam their agreement.
At these prices, I'm not surprised.
He wheels his shopping cart of sporting goods out through a gauntlet of approving salesmen. They smile and pat him on the back. Ray cannot decide if they're crazier than he is.
Thank you...thank you...
My father said he saw him years later playing under a made-up name in some tenth-rate league in Carolina. He'd put on fifty pounds, and the spring was gone from his step, but he could still hit. Dad used to say no one could hit like Shoeless Joe. Ray is smiling wistfully.
That's the first time I've ever seen you smile as you mentioned your father. Ray considers that.
How come?
Come on, you. Bed time. Annie hoists Karin on her shoulders with a grunt, and the three climb their way down the bleachers. Ray's hand steadies Annie as she takes one of the steps.
Careful... Moonl ight butters the Iowa night. They walk along the side of the field, and Ray stops. He looks at the field.
I have just created something totally illogical.
That's what I like about it.
Am I completely nuts?
Not completely. She looks out over the baseball field.
It's a good baseball field, Ray.
It is kinda pretty, isn't it? Annie smiles at him and carries Karin inside. Ray steps onto the porch and flicks the switch shutting off the floodlights over the field.
Any sign?
Something's going to happen out there. I can feel it. Annie lowers her head against his chest and goes back to sleep. Outside, the trees are fully leafed.
Daddy, what's a southpaw?
A left-handed pitcher.
Well, given how much less acreage we have for corn, I'd say we'll probably .almost break even.
Jesus.
We've spent all our savings on that field.
Daddy..
Just a minute, Karin.
Daddy...
 In a minute, Karin.
There's a man out there on your lawn. Ray opens his eyes and turns to see Karin kneeling on the kitchen counter, looking out the window. Ray and Annie exchange a quick glance, and Ray walks to the window.
We'll put up some coffee. You go ahead. Ray takes a breath and steps out onto the veranda. The night sky seems close enough to touch.
How's the field play?
It's good. The ball bounces true. Ray smiles with pride. He tosses up another ball, gives it his best swing, and is thrilled to see he has actually lofted one into the air. But into center field. The Man sprints across the outfield, and makes a lovely catch in short center. Instead of throwing the ball in, the Man runs it in, loping toward home plate. Ray's heart thumps.
Hi. The Man nods at him, takes the bat, and tests it to feel its weight.
Ray Kinsella.
Joe Jackson. Ray is thrilled to hear the words spoken. It is Shoeless Joe Jackson after all, who stands not five feet away from him, trying out all the bats now. Ray isn't quite sure if he should talk, or ask questions, or just stand there. Finally, he can't help himself.
I bet its good to be playing again, huh?
It was like having part of me amputated.
Joe looks over at Ray, now, his dark eyes evincing the pain his steady voice tries to conceal.
I've heard that old man wake up and scratch itchy legs that've been dust for fifty years. That was me. I'd wake up in the night with the smell of the ballpark in my nose and the cool of the grass on my feet. The thrill of the grass... He has found the bat he likes.
Can you pitch?
Yeah, I'm not bad. Joe hands Ray the bucket of balls. Ray can barely contain his excitement as he races to the mound. He stands on the rubber and faces Joe at the plate.
Don't we need a catcher?
Not if you can get it near the plate, we don't. Ray smiles, takes a breath and starts his windup, during which he says aloud to himself:
I am pitching to Shoeless Joe Jackson. He makes a pitch. It's not a very good one, and Joe has to step across the plate to make contact, but his swing is graceful, compact and effortlessly powerful. He drives the ball against the fence. Ray watches it with wonder and when he turns back, Jackson is gesturing with the bat for him to make the next pitch. Ray makes the standard pitcher's gesture for a curve ball.
See if you can hit my curve. He goes into an elaborate windup, throws it, it does not curve much, and Jackson whistles it right by Ray's ear.
Yes, he can hit the curve.
Stick with fast balls, kid.
You bet. Ray makes another pitch, and Jackson hits a line drive down the third base line. Then a smoker down the first base line. Ray is mightily impressed.
Wow.
Damn, this feels good. Put it right here, huh? Joe holds the bat out low over the plate and Ray pitches it reasonably close to that spot. Jackson hits it out of the park, and beams. Ray brightens up with remembrance.
Right, you were a low ball hitter.
Oh man, I did love this game. You know, I'd have played for food money. it was the game, the sounds, the smells. You ever held a glove or a ball to your face? Ray smiles as he walks in from the mound.
Yeah.
And it was riding the trains from town to town. And the hotels with brass spittoons in the lobbies and brass beds in the rooms. And it was the crowd getting to their feet when the ball was hit deep. Shoot, I'd have played for free. The sound of a screen door turns their. attention to the house. Annie and Karin are coming out to them.
My family. Jackson nods and then points to the floodlights.
What's with the lights?
"All the stadiums have them now except Wrigley Field.
Makes it harder to see the ball.
The owners found that more people could attend night games.
Mr. Jackson: my wife Annie, my daughter Karin.
Joe. Ma'm...
hand and winks
Hi.
Are you a ghost? Ray and Annie are instantly embarrassed, and try to cover with forced, nervous laughter.
Karin...  She's just kidding.
It's okay.
You look real to me.
Then I guess I'm real.
Would you like to come inside'?
Uh, thanks, but...I don't think I can. Ray and Annie look at Joe for a moment, not quite understanding the ground rules here. Joe senses their discomfort and changes the subject.
Hey, can I come back again?
Yeah. I built this for you.
There are others, you know. There were eight of us. It'd sure mean a lot to them.
Oh man, anytime. They're all welcome here. Joe looks out over the field in eager anticipation of the good times to come.
Thank you, Ray. I appreciate it. See you later, huh?
Yeah. See you later.
Say it ain't so, Joe! Joe laughs and walks to the outfield. Annie puts her arm around Ray and snuggles her head against his chest. Nearby, brook water splashes softly in the darkness, a frog shrills, and fireflies dazzle the night. Joe is in the outfield grass now, walking toward a door cut into the fence.
Where's he going?
Since when is there a door in the fence?
I don't know. I didn't put one there. Joe reaches the door, opens it, and turns back to Ray, his voice carrying effortlessly through the night air.
Hey! Is this heaven?
No. It's Iowa. Shoeless Joe Jackson nods and fades away as he walks through the door in the fence. Ray and Annie looks at each other in absolute wonder.
We're keeping this field.
You bet your ass we are.
You're going to lose your farm, pal. It is Sunday afternoon, and Annie's family is visiting. her mother, pink-faced and white-dentured, sits ramrod straight in an antique rocking chair. Also present are her brother, Mark, and his wife Dee.
Come on, it's so big. How can you lose something so big?
You misplaced the house once.
Yeah, but it turned up two days later, didn't it?
Ray, this stupid baseball field is going to bankrupt you. Everybody knows it. All I'm saying is if you wait till you default on your loan, you lose everything. Sell now, my partners'll
give you a more than a fair price and you walk away with a nest egg.
Thanks, Mark, but no.
What are you holding on to this place for? You've never even liked Iowa. You don't like farming, you don't know the first thing about it ---
Hey; I know a lot more about farming than you think.
How could you plow under your major crop?
Daddy, the baseball game is on. Ray beams. Karin returns the smile and reaches her arms out to be picked up. She scissors her legs around her father at belt level, hugging his neck.
Excuse us. He exits, carrying Karin. Mark shakes his head.
I don't believe this guy. I'm trying to bail him out and he goes off to watch television. Annie stifles a laugh.
He used to be so normal.
Does he beat you?
What???
He's drinking, right?
He doesn't drink, and he doesn't beat me, okay? Now I'll grant you, he has gotten me to worship Satan with him, but just a little. Her mother gasps.
Kidding... I'm kidding! Her family has no sense of humor about this whatsoever.
I think we need more cheese. She goes into the kitchen, and when she has rounded the corner, she raises her eyes to heaven and mutters:
Families.
Watch Joe. Watch his feet as the pitcher gets the sign and starts to pitch. A good left fielder knows what pitch is coming, and he can tell from the.angle of the bat where the ball's going to be hit. At the sharp crack of the bat Shoeless Joe whirls, takes five loping strides toward the fence, turns again', reaches up, and the ball smacks into his glove. Karin cheers. One of the players good-naturedly boos.
Showoff!
Aw, stick it in your ear, Felsch.
Yeah, if you'd run like that against Detroit I'da won twenty games that year.
Oh for Pete's sake, that was sixty-five years ago! Give it up, will ya...
Hey., you guys wanna play ball, or what?
.you muscle-bound jerk.
Oh yeah? At least I got muscles.
No. At most you got muscles.
Come on, asshole, pitch! The good-natured banter stops short, and the other players glare at Weaver who looks sheepishly toward the little girl and her father in the bleachers.
Sorry, kid.
It's okay!
All right,'Karin! The players resume their practicing and ribbing.
Ray? Mom's leaving.
Oh. Well, it was...you know, thanks for coming.
Think about what I said. I just want to help.
I know. Mark just stands there for a moment, the only sounds coming from the players on the, field.
I thought you two were going to watch some game.
Oh, I guess it's not really a game. It's more like a practice. Mark looks at his wife and Mother with concern. Ray doesn't understand this reaction.
See, there's only eight of them, so they can't play a real game...
Eight of what? Ray points to the noisy players on the field.
Them. Now, Mother and Dee look as if they're about to go into mourning. Mark kneels next to Karin.
Karin honey... what are you watching?
The baseball men.
Do you see any baseball men right now?
Of course I do. Mark stands up and shoots Ray an accusing look. Annie's Mother starts to walk away.
I don't think it's very polite to try to make other people feel stupid. Annie questions Mark and Dee as they pass her on the way to catch up with Mother.
You don't see it?
That's not funny, Annie. Her family leaves in a huff.
They couldn't see it.
Interesting. He and Annie sit beside Karin and watch the players. Each slowly starts to smile.
Here, look at this. Sixty-five years since I worn this uniform, still fits me like a glove.
You must keep in pretty good shape.
No.
Fuckin' A!
Weaver! Buck realizes that once again he has cursed in front of Karin.
Oh shit. I mean, sorry. I'm sorry. Annie calls from the house.
Ray! Dinner!
Come on, fellas. Let's hit the showers.
Right. See you guys. The players call their "good-byes" to Ray and head for the door in the outfield fence. Ray watches them fade out as they go through the door. Then he takes a moment to look around him. The baseball diamond set in the cornfield is quite beautiful. Ray takes a satisfied breath, and walks back toward his house. He is the very picture of contentment. Then he hears The Voice.
'Ease his pain.' Ray stops short.
What? No response.
I'm sorry. I didn't understand.
'Ease his pain.' Ray stops short.
What? No response.
I'm sorry. I didn't understand.
'Ease his pain.'
Whose pain? What pain? No response.
Why me? But there is no response.
Come on, wash up. We've got a PTA meeting after dinner. They're talking about banning books again. Really subversive books like, Wizard of Oz, Diary of Anne Frank --- She notices Ray is strangely silent.
What happened to you?
The Voice is back.
Oh Lord, you don't have to build a football field now, do you?
 He said...'Ease his pain.'
Ease whose pain?
I asked him. He wouldn't tell me.
Shoeless Joe's?
I don't think so.
One of the other players?
I don't think so.
This is a very non-specific voice you've got out there, Ray, and he's really starting to piss me off. Ray nods as Annie serves the meal in silence.
Karin has such a wonderful imagination. Lately, she's been making up these charming little stories about ghosts who play baseball in a cornfield... wonderful imagination.
Yes. She gets that from Ray. Miss Corser smiles approvingly. Ray realizes both women are looking at him, now, and he emerges from his thoughts.
Hmm? Annie leads Ray inside.
.and I say smut and filth like this has no place in our schools! A large portion of the audience applauds. Annie whispers snarlingly to Ray:
Fascist. I'd like to ease her pain. Ray is still lost in thought.
Mrs. Perkins, the book you are waving about is hardly smut. It is considered by many critics as the classic novel about growing up in the 1960s.
 I read it four times. Funniest book I ever read.
It's pornography!
The Supreme Court said its not. And its author, Mr. Mann ---
-- is sick!
Terence Mann is a Pulitzer prize-winner, and was widely regarded as the finest satirist of his time.
Well I think he's a pervert, and quite probably a Communist, too!
The se-called novels of Terence Mann endorse promiscuity, godlessness, the mongrelization of races, and disrespect to high-ranking officers of the United States Army. And that's why right- thinking school boards all across the country have been banning this guy's shit since 1969.
You know why he stopped writing books? Because he masturbates!
I experienced the sixties.
No. I think you had two Fifties, and moved right on to the Seventies.
Oh yeah? Well your husband plowed under his corn and built a baseball field! The crowd "oohs" and "aahs."
Now there's an intelligent response.
The weirdo. Ray is so excited at his revelation that he really wants to leave immediately. He tugs Annie's sleeve.
Annie... But Annie mistakes her husband's intentions. She thinks he is cautioning her not to get embroiled in trouble.
At least he's not a book burner, you Nazi cow! Now the crowd erupts.
You're both a bunch of weirdos! Annie pulls herself up to her full 5'4" and thrusts an angry finger at. the woman.
All right Beulah, you wanna step outside?!? Huh? The other woman takes a half-step backward. No one has ever seen sweet Annie like this.
I got a better idea. Let's put it to a vote. Come on! Who's for Eva Braun
here? Who wants to burn books? Who wants to piss on the Constitution of the United Sates? Anybody? The majority who had sided with the book-banner wants to vote for censorship, but under these terms just can't raise their arms. Little Annie is on a roll, now.
All right. Now: who's for The Bill of Rights? Come on...who thinks freedom's a pretty good thing? Let's see those hands. Some people start raising their hands.
Who thinks we have to stand up to the kind of censorship they have in Russia? Reluctantly, just about everyone raises their hands. Annie is thrilled.
There you go. All right, America! I'm proud of you. I mean it. You're beautiful!
 We gotta go. Ray pulls her from the room. Each is proud as hell, each for a different reason.
Oh Ray, was that great, or what? it was like the Sixties again.
I figured it out.
I know whose pain I'm supposed to ease.
I know whose pain I'm supposed to ease.
Ray, I just halted the spread of neo-facism in America, and you're talking about ---
Terence Mann.
What about him?
That's whose pain.
How do you know that?
I don't know. I just know. I was right about building the field, wasn't I?
What's his pain?
I don't know.
Then how are you supposed to ease it?
I don't know. None of this questioning has dampened Ray's pride and excitement. Annie shakes her head.
Ray...
Annie.
(tries to put
He's my favorite writer too, but...what's Terence Mann got to do with baseball? Ray's smile freezes. Then disappears. He hasn't a clue.
Annie, it's incredible.
Ray and Annie run down the steps to the street for their car, Ray's words racing as fast as his feet.
By the early Seventies, the guy decides people have become either too extremist or too apathetic to listen to him. So he stops writing books. He starts writing poetry. About whales and stuff. Then, he starts fooling around with a home computer, and gets hooked. Know what he does now? Annie shakes her head no.
He writes software for interactive children's videos. They teach kids how to resolve conflicts peacefully. What an amazing guy..
Right. So what's it got to do with baseball?
In the April 1962 issue of Jet Magazine, there's a story of his called 'This Is Not A Pipe.' Annie laughs at that. Ray is so excited, he laughs too.
It's not his best work, but the hero of the story, a character that Mann created twenty-six years ago, is named John Kinsella. My father. She stops short.
-Wow. He gives her a "See? What'd I tell you?" look.
What can I say... Big wow, but..what's it got to do with baseball? They are standing by their car.
You drive.
Okay. The last interview-he ever gave was in 1973. Guess what it's about.
Mmm. Some kind of team sport?
Annie, he was a baseball fanatic! Listen to this: He finds a page and reads from it:
'As a child, my earliest recurring dream was to play at Ebbets Field with Jackie Robinson and the Brooklyn Dodgers. Of course, it never happened, and the Dodgers left Brooklyn, and they torn down Ebbets Field. But even now, I still dream that dream.'
That's sad...
The man wrote the best books of his generation, he was a pioneer in the civil rights and anti-war movements, he made the cover of Newsweek, he knew everybody, he did everyting...he helped shape his time. He hung out with the Beatles! But in the end, it wasn't enough. What he missed ...was'baseball. Annie takes a look at Ray's handful of Xeroxes.
Oh my God!
What.
Sorry.
He hasn't been to a live baseball game since 1958.
So to ease his pain, you have to take him to a ball game?
Yes.
Ray, this is nuttier than building the field.
No it's not. It's pretty weird, I grant you, but building the field was weirder. Five, ten percent weirder.
I'm sorry, pal, but I have to nip this one in the bud. We are having moderate to heavy financial difficulties here. You cannot take off for Boston while you're going broke in Iowa.
Annie, this is really new territory for both of us, I know, but we're dealing with primal forces of nature, here. When primal forces of nature tell you to do something, the prudent thing is not to quibble over details and ---
(starting to get
But why do you have to go? Why can't the voice send someone else? What's wrong with Shirley MacLaine, she too busy? What does this have to do with you??? Ray hears her anger and sits her down.
That's what I need to find out.
Ray, we're behind on the mortgage. That field ate up our savings. We could lose the farm.
I won't even stay in motels. I'll sleep in the car, and I'll beg for food.
No. This is too much.- I understand your need to prove to the world you're not turning into your father, but you've done it! You believed in the magic, and it came true. Isn't that enough?
Annie, it's more than that. I know this- is nuts, but there's another reason I'm supposed to do it. I feel it. I feel it as strongly as I've ever felt anything in my life. There's a reason.
What. Just tell me what it is.
I think something's going to happen at the game. I don't know what, but...there's something at Fenway Park in Boston, and I have to be there with Terence Mann to find it. Something he just said changes Annie's mood.
Fenway Park... Is that the one with the big green wall in left field?
Yeah.
I dreamt last night you were at Fenway.
Uh, was I sitting on the first base side?
Yes...
About the fifth row?
(nods,
You were keeping score and eating
-- a hot dog. I had the same dream.
I'll help you pack.
.you take that to 93, and then it gets all squiggly, and after that you're on your own. How are you going to find him, anyway? He won't exactly be in the phone book, you know.
The article says he has a storefront on Harvard Street next to some place that sells Kosher food. Shouldn't be too hard to find. I don't need a tie, do
No, dear. Not for a kidnapping.
You'll be okay, right?
I'll try to sell the combine. We sure don't need it anymore. Karin runs up, grabs Ray behind each ear and hugs and kisses him.
So long Tiger. He get into the car and looks up at Annie.
I'll call you every night. If the team shows up while I'm gone, just tell them...  On second thought, stay away from them. Those guys haven't been near a woman since 1922.
Ray, they're not going to make a pass at me. They're'ghosts.
They're jocks. Keep away from them.
Hi, I'm Ray Kinsella. I'm really a big fan of...
He lives right around here. Do you know him? I'm a friend of his. The Butcher just stares back, with suspicion.
He's sort of a tall, black man.
If you was much of a friend, he'd of give you the directions himself. Ray nods. He knows this is useless.
That's a good point. Thank you. Ray exits.
I don't know where he lives. But by her raised eyebrows and the tone of her voice, it is clear that if she did know -- which she probably does -- she certainly wouldn't tell him.
Two blocks down. Right hand side. First store that don't have a chicken in the window, is his.
Who the fuck are you???- Ray is momentarily taken aback, but he figures maybe the guy is joking, so he just smiles and plunges ahead.
Sir, my name is Ray Kinsella, and it's a great pleasure 'Co finally --- The door slams in his face. It takes Ray a few seconds to realize the interview is over. He rings the bell again. The door opens. Manns large frame fills it.
We got a learning disability here?
Look. I can't tell you the secret of life, and I don't have any answers for you. I don't give interviews, I am no longer a public figure, I just want to be left alone. So fuck off.
Just one minute. I'm begging you. Mann looks him over. Then he sighs.
One minute. Mann turns and enters the storefront. Ray follows.
Your minute ain't getting bigger.
Okay. I understand your desire for privacy, and i wouldn't dream of intruding if this weren't extremely important.
Oh God. I don't do causes anymore.
This isn't a cause. I don't need money, or an endorsement.
Refreshing.
You once wrote: 'There comes a time when all the cosmic tumblers have clicked into place, and the universe opens itself up for a few seconds, to show you what is possible.'
Oh my God.
What.
You're from the Sixties!
Well, actually ---
Out! Out!
Just wait a second --- Mann picks up an old-fashioned bug sprayer -- the kind with a long arm that pumps in and out -- and starts spraying it at Ray as if he were an unwanted insect.
Back to the Sixties! Back! He is backing Ray out the door.
If you'd just ---
There's no place for you here in the future! Get back while you still can! He gets Ray just past the door and slams it shut. Ray slams it open. He's pissed.
You've changed, you know that?
Yes. I suppose I have. How's this? (smiles and makes the peace sign) 'Peace, love, dope.'
Now you've pissed me off.
Okay, hold it right there. He juts his pocketed hand forward, as if he had a gun in his jacket.
I was hoping I wouldn't have to do it this way...
What the fuck is that?
It's a gun. What'd you think it is?
It's your finger.
No it's not. It's a gun.
Yeah? Let me see it.
Get out of here, I'm not going to show you my gun. Mann sighs, and stands.
Now look. I'm not going to hurt you, I just need you to go with me for a little while, then -- what are you doing? Mann has found a crowbar among his tools, and is advancing toward Ray.
I'm going to beat you with a crowbar till you go away. Understandably, this makes Ray nervous.
Whoa! Wait! You can't do that.
You're a pacifist! Mann stops. He thinks. He lowers the crowbar.
Shit. Ray breathes a sigh of relief.
Thank you.
All right, are you kidnapping me? What's the deal here?
I'm sorry. I was hoping I could-just convince you to come with me.
Then you are kidnapping me.
I have to take you to a baseball game.
You what?
Tonight's game. Red.Sox, Twins.
Why?
Something will happen there. I don't know what, but we'll find out when it does. Mann now has no idea what to make of all this, so he just looks Ray over for a few seconds.
My name is Ray Kinsella. You used my father's name for a character in one of your stories. John Kinsella.
You're seeing a team of psychiatrists, aren't you?
Then why are you kidnapping me to a baseball game?
I read an interview you gave a long time ago about how you always dreamed of playing at Ebbets Field, and how sad you felt when they tore it down.
 I never said that.
You didn't?
I don't even remember thinking it. Now Ray is ndt sure what to do.
This whole. thing is so weird.
Then why go through with it?
It's a long story...and I'll tell you on the way. Please.
I'm not going to get rid of you, am I?
If you just come to this game with me, I'll never bother you again. Not even a Christmas card. Mann picks up a hat, .plops it on his head and heads out the door.
You do this often?
No. It's my first time. So be gentle. Ray laughs nervously, and is embarrassed to see Mann not sharing the humor.
You used to have a sense of humor.
Things used to be funny. Ray pulls up at an intersection. He has to choose between left and right. Behind him, cars are honking. Ray doesn't have a clue which way to go. He sighs.
I'm sorry. This is really humiliating. Which way is-Eenway? Mann shakes his head, then tilts it to the left.
Thank you.
You're really inept at this, aren't you? Ray grins sheepishly and nods. Mann laughs.
I mean you're like a total bumbler. Ray chuckles his reluctant acceptance of the truth.
'Bozo the Kidnapper.
(no longer so
Okay, okay... After a few moments, Ray decidesto break the ice.
Can I ask you a question? Something I've always wanted to know. Mann nods. He's been asked this question a million times.
No, I never slept with her.
You never slept with who?
Whoever you were going to ask me about. If I'd been with one-tenth the famous women they said I was with, I'd be in formaldehyde by now.
How'd you get a name like Terence? Mann cannot believe that's the question.
Rastus was taken.
Oh no.
Nice going, Boze.
Okay. I don't really have a gun. So don't say anything to this guy, okay? I swear to God there's a reason we're supposed to be at this game. Mann gives him a "Give me a break" look. Ray sees the Policeman is getting out of his cruiser and walking towards them. Ray is desperate.
If I get arrested, the press'll be all over you, you'll have to appear in open court, you'll be the lead story on Entertainment Tonight, and your picture'll be on the front page of every tabloid in America. The Policeman knocks on Ray's window. He is young, fresh-scrubbed and earnest. Ray holds up one hand to him.
Just a second.
Sorry.
License and registration. Nervously, Ray complies. Mann turns his face toward the passenger side window. Ray's mouth dries up. He has no idea what Mann will do. The Policeman scrutinizes the license, turns it over to look for convictions, and checks Ray's face against the felonlike photo. Then he looks at Mann.
And what's your name,-sir? Mann keeps his face averted.
Terry.
Where is it that you and Raymond are going, Terry?
Fenway Park! We're going to the ball game.
 Actually, Officer, I'm being kidnapped. Discreetly, under his breath, Ray sings the "Entertainment Tonight" theme song.
'Entertainment Tonight, doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo... Mann winces. The officer looks at him questioningly.
What I mean by that is, I don't care much for baseball, but Raymond insisted.
Yeah, I hate baseball. (hands Ray back
Your right taillight is out, Raymond. I want you to get it fixed at the first opportunity.
Yes. I will. Thank you. The Policeman walks away, and Ray heaves a sigh of relief.
'Terry?'
'Raymond?'
Ray. My...hostages call me Ray. Can I call you Terry? Sourly, Mann nods. Ray smiles and drives off.
And thank you.
I didn't do it just because I don't want the publicity.
Then what else?
I envy you your craziness, Ray. It's been years since I did something completely crazy.
Well, you want to hear something really crazy?
Do I have a choice?
Nope. I live on a farm in Iowa. One day, out in the cornfield, I heard a voice...
But can't you accept the probability that it's all just a hallucination?
Annie and Karin see it, too. They have reached the ticket window.
Two, field level, first base side. The elderly Ticket Seller pulls out two tickets.
Section seventeen. Twelve dollars. Ray takes out his wallet and turns to Mann..
It's on me.
You're damn right it is. Ray pays the man and receives the tickets.
Game don't start for a while, but you can go in, watch batting practice.
Great. They enter the stadium.
So what do you do with yourself these days?
I live. I work. I've learned to cook. I take walks. I watch sunsets.
Don't you miss being... involved?
So...what do you want?
I want them to stop looking to me for answers. Begging me to speak again, write again, be a leader. I want them to start thinking for themselves. And I want my privacy! Ray looks slightly embarrassed.
No, I meant what do you want from... Ray points to the hot dog vendor, as they have reached the front of the line.
Oh.
A dog and a beer.
 Two.
I haven't published a word in seventeen years and I still have to endure assholes like you all the time. What do you think it'd be like if I suddenly came out with a new book?
They'd bleed me dry.
God, this place is so beautiful. The grass is so green you can almost smell it. Looking around the old ballpark, they see only about twenty or thirty die-hard fans in the stands for batting practice; a half-dozen players are grouped around the batting cage as one player hits to several others in the field. A few sportswriters and other civilians stand near the dugouts. Ray and Mann stop at the first row, right behind the Red Sox on-deck circle, lean on the railing and talk.
It could be 1912 out there, for all this place has changed. Babe Ruth stood on that very mound as a pitcher long before anyone knew he could hit home runs. Same mound.
Why are we here, Ray?
Something.. about the game.
1 Game, 0 At Bats The message does not just glow, it pulsates. It looks almost otherworldly, phosphorescent; clearly unlike anything ever seen before on a ballpark scoreboard.
'Go the distance.'
Oh my God.
What's the matter?
Nothing.
You okay? Ray sighs.
Yeah.
Whenever you wanttogo,wecan go.
What???
If you want to go, we can go. Mann looks at Ray curiously, trying to read this new attitude.
Then let's go. Mann rises and heads up the aisle. Ray looks down at the program -- at the handwritten legend of Moonlight Graham, who played one game fifty-seven years ago, but did not get to bat -- and follows Mann out of the ballpark.
Where are you goingfrom here?
Home.
What is it you're not telling me?
 I've taken up too much of your time. Mann gets out of the car.
I wish I had your passion, Ray. However misdirected it may be, it's still a passion. I used to feel that way about things, but...
You got another message, didn't you?
You'll think I'm crazy.
I already think you're crazy. What did it say? After a little thought, Ray smiles sadly.
It said 'The man's done enough. Leave him alone.' Ray puts the car in gear, makes a wide turn, and starts to head back up the street. But he stops short when Mann's form looks out of the darkness into the glare of the headlights.. Ray does not know why Mann is blocking his path. Or why he appears tense, almost frightened.
'Moonlight' Graham. Ray's jaw drops.
You saw it.
Saw what?
New York Giants, 1922. He played one game, never got to bat. Mann looks spectrial in the high-contrast glare on the headlights.
What did I see, Ray?
Chisholm, Minnesota. We were the only ones who saw it. Did you hear the voice, too? Mann glances at Ray, then looks away.
It's all right to admit it. That's what told me to find you. No response.
Did you hear it too?
'Go the distance.'
Do you know what it means?
Yes.
What.
It means...we're going to Minnesota to find Moonlight Graham.
Yeah.
What do we do when we find him?
We'll know that when we find him. Ray opens the passenger door of the Datsun and Mann jumps in. Ray releases the brake and peels out, burning rubber. The two men look happy as kids with bats over shoulders, gloves dangling, on their way to a sandlot.
Annie, I'm really sorry, but I'm going to be a few days longer.
Everything's great, and'I'll tell you all about it when I get back, but I'm going to Minnesota now.
An old ballplayer. I'll explain when I get home. How are things with you?
Hey, guess what? Terence Mann is with me. We're going to Minnesota together.
I know. I gotta go. Hug Karin for me. I love you.
Why didn't you tell him?
For the same reason I've never pissed on your birthday cake.
Annie, you don't have a choice in the matter. Annie looks vertroubldye.
They are north of Duluth,andthelandscape hasgrown harsher, the trees shorterandmore gnarled, thegrass tougher and wirier. After Virginia, Minnesota, all the land is scarred. Above the town the mines sit like sand-colored bunkers in the cliffs,- stern and silent. Near Chisholm, the land is getting ever weirder. It looks like a pasture rooted and rerooted by giant hogs. It has been split and gutted; greenery has grown back, but at weird and unnatural angles. But as they swing into town; the highway divides and they cross a beautiful and tranquil lake, so smooth and shiny it might be a scene painted on a glass plate. A sign reads
Half a dozen Grahams...no Archibald, no Moonlight.
Follow me.
We're trying to find an ex-baseball player named Archibald Graham.
You mean 'Doc' Graham.
No, I think his nickname was 'Moonlight.'
Yes, that's Doctor Graham.
Doctor Graham. This is interesting news to Ray and Mann.
His baseball career never amounted to much, so he went back to school. His father was a doctor.
Do you know where we can find him?
It's nothing bad. We're not from the IRS, or anything ---
Doc Graham is dead. He died in 1972. Ray and Mann look at each other, unsure of what this means to their quest.
Right now, their attention is on Veda, who has put her glasses on, and is reading from an editorial.
.'And there were times when children could not afford eyeglasses or milk, or clothing. Yet no child was ever denied these essentials, because in the background, there was always Doctor Graham. Without any fanfare or publicity, the glasses or the milk or the ticket to the ball game found their way into the child's pocket.'
You wrote that.
The day he died.
You're a good writer. The compliment is just right, and she smiles warmly.
Excuse me. She exits. Mann spreads out the clippings and shakes his head.
Something's missing. Ray is looking at a photo of Doc Graham as a man in his late sixties.
Half the towns in North America has a Doc Graham. What makes this one so special we have to come halfway across the country to find him fifteen years after he died? There's got to be more. Veda enters with a piece of paper from a yellow legal pad.
You might want to talk to some of these people. They knew Doc pretty well. Mann takes the list and looks it over.
Oh, that man had an arm on him. One day over at the ballpark, he said 'Lemme see that ball', and one of the boys threw him the ball, and he walked over behind home plate, reared back, and fired that ball over the left field fence.
And he was at least fifty years old when he did it.
It was still rising when it disappeared.
A woman, an older Nurse.
i went with him to make a housecall at one of the camps. .mining camps. The husband was sick, and they had no stove, so they had no heat.
When we got back to Chisholm, Doc went to the hardware store and bought a stove for them and paid to have it delivered. And I know that wasn't the only time he did something like that.
He didn't smoke or drink, .but he used to chew up paper and spit it out wherever he went. If you were around Doc very long, you learned to duck.
He'd even chew up his prescription slips, so sometimes we'd have to dig into our pockets for a piece of paper so Doc could write us prescriptions.
He always wore a black overcoat, even in the summer, and it was always flapping open, even in the winter and it was fifty below. And he had white hair, like me, and he always carried an umbrella.
'Cept he was always, I mean always, losing them. Stores 'round town would just lean his umbrella somewhere near the door, and if anybody asked, they'd just say 'Oh, that's Doc's umbrella'.
What was the umbrella for?
Oh, I think it got to be a habit, something to hang onto. But if you'd ask him, he'd say it was to beat away all his lady admirers. This, as much as the other remembrances, brings warm chuckles to the old men.
Tell me about his wife.
Alicia. She moved to South Carolina after he passed. She passed a few years later. She always wore blue. I bet you didn't know that.
You know, everybody's talking about you two. Our neighbors came over last night and we just told Doc'Graham stories until after midnight. I even wrote some of them down. She takes out a piece of paper.
That's very nice of you.
Well, it's funny. It's like all these memories we have of Doc had gone to sleep and sunk way down inside us. But once you started asking about him, and started us talking about him, why they swum back up to the surface again. Ray smiles.
No screwing, no drinking, no opium, no illegitimate children. No-midnight abortions, no shady finances. Ray puts down his notes and picks up the Chicago Tribune.
You sound disappointed.
Shoeless Joe had a problem. That's why he needed you. This guy doesn't need us. Suddenly, Ray straightens with a start.
Oh, My God. Ray hurries over to Mann, offering the opened newspaper, and points out an article to Mann. It is headlined:
Damn.
What the hell do I tell him.
You want me to...? He motions outside with his head.
Thanks. Ray exits.
is puzzled. He turns and looks at the theatre marquee.
Nominated? Ray now looks at the car parked nearest to him.
It is an old Mustang. The annual tag on the license plate reads: 1972.
The man is about sixty-five years old, stooped a little, but the body is still lithe, an athlete's body. He is wearing a dark overcoat...
Doctor Graham? Slowly, the man stops and turns back to face Ray. Ray starts to trot to him.
Who's that?
My name is Ray Kinsella. I'm from Iowa. Are you Moonlight Graham? The old man narrows his bright eyes to see Ray more clearly.
No one's called me 'Moonlight' Graham for fifty years.
Well, I've come...
. a very long way to see you.
Funny. I couldn't sleep tonight. Usually, I sleep like a baby. So I told Alicia I was going to take a walk.
Mind if i join you? I'd like to talk to you. Doc nods and they start to walk.
Let's go to the high school. We can sit in my office. What do. you want to talk about?
Well, first of all, how'd you get to be called 'Moonlight'?
'Cause of a night like this, long ago. I'd just gotten to the minors, and I went out to the ballpark.
DOC GRAHAM (Cont'd} There's nothing as peaceful as a ballpark at night. Like a church.
Yeah, I know what you mean.
Anyway, I fell asleep. Next morning, they found me in the on-deck circle, all curled up like a baby. Someone called me 'Moonlight,' and it stuck.
When you got to the majors, you played only one inning of one game. What happened in that inning?
It was the last day of the season. Bottom of the eighth, and we were way ahead. I'd been up with the club for most of a month, but hadn't seen any action. Just then old John McGraw points a bony finger at me and says 'Right field.' Well sir, I jumped up like I was sitting on a spring, grabbed my glove, and ran out onto the field. They reach a varnished door with an opaque glass inset, and enter. Doc Graham's office.
Did you get to make a play? Doc takes a sheet of paper off his desk, expertly rips an inch or so off the corner with his teeth, and begins chewing.
Nope. They never hit the ball out of the infield. Ray chuckles, but then flinches as Doc shoots his little spitball towards him.
Heads up. It hits the back of the sofa a few feet from Ray, and hangs there, like a white fly.
I was warned about you.
Anyway, one inning later the game was over, and so was I.
And what was that like?
It was like coming this close to your dreams, and then watching them brush past you like a stranger in a crowd. Ray nods, and a look of understanding begins to appear on his face. He looks out the window, focused on faraway.
Except, at the time, you don't think much of it. Hardly anybody recognizes the most significant moment of their life when they're happening. Back then I just figured there'd be plenty more days. I didn't know that would be the only one. Doc Graham notices that Ray is looking very serious.
Now, let me ask you a question, Ray Kinsella. What makes that half-inning so interesting that you come all the way from Iowa to ask me about it sixty-five years later? Ray chooses his words carefully.
I didn't really know till just now. But I think it's to ask you if you could do anything you wanted to...if you could have a wish...
Ahh... Doc nods. his understanding. He smiles wryly, takes a new piece of paper, and bites off a little section.
And are you the kind of man who could grant me that wish?
I don't know. I'm just asking... Doc leans his left elbow on the desk and rubs his forehead thoughtfully with a palm, as if it were an eraser that could erase the years and take him back to 1929 and the Polo Grounds in New York.
I never got to bat in the major leagues. I'd have liked the chance -- just once -- to stare down a big league pitcher. Stare him down and then just as he goes into the windup -- wink! Make him wonder if I know something he doesn't. That's what I wish for. The chance to squint my eyes when the sky is so blue it hurts to look at it, and to feel the 'tingle that runs up your arms when you connect dead-on. The chance to run the bases, stretch a double to a triple, and flop race-first into third, wrapping my arm around the bag. That's my wish, Ray Kinsella... that's my wish. Ray begins to smile. Graham is staring intently at him.
Is there enough magic floating around in the night out there for you to make that wish come true?
What would you do if I said 'Yes'?
I think I might actually believe you.
There is a place where things like that happen. And if you want to go there, I can take you. Doc's eyes start to glisten, and he offers an embarrassed smile as he wipes away a tear.
If it means leaving Chisholm... He shakes his head.no. Ray is surprised.
I understand, but I think you're supposed to come with us.
This is my most special place in the world, Ray. Once a place touches you like this, the wind never blows so cold again. You feel for it like it was your child. I can't leave here. Ray cannot believe the man won't leave Chisholm for his dream.
But your wish...
It'll stay one. I was born here, lived here, and I'll die here. That's okay. I'll have no regrets.
But sixty-five years ago -- for five minutes -- you came this close. (holds up two
It would kill some men to get that close to their dream and never touch it. They'd consider it a tragedy.
Son...if I'd only gotten to be a doctor for five minutes. .now that would have been a tragedy. Those words fill up the room, and Ray sinks back against the couch.
Well, I'd better get home before Alicia starts to thinking I've got a girlfriend. And Doc Graham smiles at him.
And he smiled.
And then I figured maybe we're not supposed to take him with us. So now I don't know why the hell we were supposed to come here.
Maybe it was to find out if one inning can change the world.
Did it?
It did for these people. If he'd gotten a hit, he might've stayed there.
Ray.
Okay, look. They can't foreclose for thirty days, or something like that. I've got to take Terry back to Boston first, so it'll be ---
No. Ray looks over at Mann.
I'm going to Iowa with you.
We're coming home.-
Hell, I couldn't quit now. I've got see this ballpark.
Not everybody can see it. You might not.
I'll give it a try. As they turn onto the highway near the lake, a Teenager with a dufflebag appears on the side of the road, his arm raised in. a hitchhiker's stance. Ray pulls the car over to the side of the road.
I need all the karma I can get right now. The car stops, and the Teenager runs for it. He tosses his dufflebag in the backseat and squeezes in after it.
Thanks. You're the first car by. I didn't expect to get a lift so soon. Ray starts the car back onto the highway.
How far are you going?
How far are you going?
Iowa.
Well, if it's okay with you, I'll ride along for a while. I play baseball. Ray and Mann exchange brief smiles.
I'm looking for a place to play, and I heard that all through the Midwest, towns have teams, and in some places they'll find you a day job so you can play ball nights and weekends.
This is your lucky day, kid. We're going someplace kind of like that.
All right!
I'm Ray Kinsella, this is Terry Mann.
Hi. I'm Archie Graham. Mann and Ray just look at each other. And the little Datsun heads off down the highway.
I'm dying to ask him if he has a nickname.
Don't. He didn't get it till he was in the minors.
Maybe we can give it to him.
Funny, the way he described towns, finding you a job so you can play on their team...they haven't done that for years. My Dad did that for a while. But that was in the Twenties.
What happened to your father?
He never made it as ball player, so he tried to get his son to make it for him. By the time I was ten, playing baseball got to be like eating vegetables or taking out the garbage, so when I was fourteen, I started to refuse. Can you believe that? An American boy refusing to have a catch with his father.
Why at fourteen?
That's when I read The Boat Rocker, by Terence Mann.
Oh God.
I never played catch with him again.
I know. Anyway, when I was seventeen, we had a big fight, I packed my things, said something awful, and left. After a while I wanted to come home, but I didn't know how. I made it back for the funeral.
What was the awful thing you said?
I said I could never respect a man whose hero was a criminal.
Who was his hero?
Shoeless Joe Jackson. Mann considers this all very carefully.
You knew he wasn't a criminal. Ray nods.
Then why'd you say it?
I was seventeen. Mann nods with growing understanding.
So this is your penance.
I know. I can't bring my father back..
.so the least you can do is bring back his hero. Ray nods.
Well now we know what everybody's purpose here is...except mine. Ray looks at him. He hadn't thought of that. After a few moments Ray points to something in the distance.
Daddy! Then Annie appears too. They kiss while Mann and Archie wait to be introduced. Finally, Mann clears his throat.
Terry.
Hiya Terry. Annie steps forward, wining some curls from her eyes with ahand that has recently been immersed in flour'. She smiles, wipes the hand on the thigh of her jeans, and shakes his hand.
Welcome.
Thank you.
And this young fellow is Moon -- uh, Archie Graham. Karin and Annie shake his hand.
He's come to practice with the team.
He'll be able to do more than just practice.
What does that mean?
Come on. They walk towards the field.
Let's enjoy this place while we still have it.
Hi, Ray, welcome back.
Thanks, Joe. Good to see you.
Oh my Lord.
What.
That's Shoeless Joe Jackson!
Well of course it is.
I've seen pictures. Those are the White Sox!
You mean you still didn't believe me?
I thought I did, but... Oh my Lord. They have reached the foul line where Shoeless Joe waits for them.
Terry, I'd like you to meet Joe Jackson. Joe, this is Terry Mann. Mann and Jackson shake hands.
It's a pleasure to meet you.
Pleasure's mine.
I don't mind. Where'd they come from?
Hey, that's Mel Ott. And Carl Hubbell. Those are the New York Giants!
With a couple of Cardinals and A's thrown in for good measure. Ty Cobb wanted to play, but none of us could stand the sonofabitch when we were alive, so we told him to stuff it.
Yes sir. Ray and Mann are astonished that Shoeless Joe knows who Archie is.
What the hell you doing on the sidelines? You came here to play ball, didn't you?
Yes sir.
Go warm up!
Unbelievable.
It's more than that. It's perfect.
Does he get a hit for that?
Karin?
Um, no. The batter was trying to sacrifice.
So how do you score it?
Fielder's choice?
Very good.
You better sit here. Karin beams. Ray taps Mann and points to the plate.
Look. Archie Graham -- now wearing a Giant's uniform -- drops one of the two bats he has been swinging in the on-deck circle, and advances on the plate, slashing the air with a brand-new bat the color of vanilla ice cream. He plants himself in the batter's b.ox, then cocks the bat, the top end of it trembling as if he were stirring something, and waits for the pitch.' The pitcher looks in for his signs. Archie stares back. As the pitcher goes into his windup, Archie winks at him. There is a moment of confusion and then anger on the pitcher's face, and when the ball speeds to the plate it is aimed right at Archie's head. He dives out of the way and hits the dirt hard. The Catcher chuckles through his mask.
Good thing for you that wasn't his fastball. Archie digs in again at the plate, but backs up just a little. Now his look to the pitcher is one of determination.
Come on, let's see your fastball. The pitcher smiles, winds up and throws. Very fast. And right at Archie's chin. Again, he has to dive out of the way. This time, however, he gets right up and immediately appeals to the Umpire.
Hey, ump, how about a warning?
Sure. Watch out-you don't get killed. Both benches laugh at that. Archie holds up his hands to call time, and steps out of the batter's box. The on-deck batter, Mel Ott, comes over.
Okay, kid, first two were high and tight, where do you think the next one's going to be?
Either-low and away, or in my ear.
He don't want to load the bases. Look for low and away. Archie nods and starts to walk back to the plate.
But watch out for 'in your ear.' Archie takes his place in the batter's box again. He still looks determined, but a little less cocky. The next pitch is a curve that looks as if it's heading right for him. But he holds his ground, and when the ball breaks down and away, he steps in, snaps the bat forward, and hits it. The ball sails in a high arc to right center. The center fielder backs up a couple of steps, lopes a few strides to his left, and makes the catch. Archie is out, but the runner on third tags up and scores. As Archie curls across the diamond from the first baseline to the Giants' bench, he hears cheering. In the stands, Ray, Annie, Karin and Mann are giving him a standing ovation. In return, he touches the brim of his cap, a ballplayer's cool response to adulation.
Where do you go when you walk through that door? What do you do?
We sleep.
And wait.
We dream.
You can't leave the field any other way, can you?
Not if we want to come back.
I'd love to go with you sometime. The silence that follows is long and ominous.
I'd like to see what's out there. There is still no response.
I'll take that as a no for now. He spots Archie jogging off the field.
Hey, slugger, congratulations! Archie jogs over.
Thanks. I can't stop shaking I'm so happy. 'Course, I would've liked a base hit...
But you got a RBI!
I sure did, didn't I?
Well come on, this calls for a drink.
I can't. I'm... He motions with his head toward the other players disappearing through the outfield door. Ray nods understandingly.
Good game, Archie.
Thanks.
Good night, kid. Ray, Karin, Annie and Mann watch Archie jog towards the rest of the players. When he reaches the fence, he turns back to them.
Mr. Kinsella? Ray turns toward him. Archie looks as if he knows more than he's saying.
Thank you for bringing me here. I couldn't have wished for anything more. Ray recognizes there may be more behind those words than just a teenager's pleasure. But he decides not to ask any questions.
I know. You're welcome. Archie runs through the door in the fence and vanishes.
Once we fell behind in the payments, the full amount of the mortgage became due.
And they own the paper, so they have the legal right to foreclose.
Unless we sell.
Either way we lose the farm. Maybe we can make it a condition of the sale that they keep the field up.
Forget it. They're buying up single farms all around us, make it one big farm. First thing they'll do is plow under your field. Ray just sits there, letting that sink in.
Ray and Mann walking.
I don't have a lot of money, Ray, but maybe I could pitch in a little.
Fine. You can put in twenty bucks for groceries.
That's not what I meant. Maybe the reason you were supposed to find me was so I could help you with this.
More likely it's that you're supposed to start writing again. About this.
Don't change the subject.
You promise to publish and I'll let you chip in from your royalties. Mann's expression suddenly turns to one of indignation.
One thing has nothing to do with the other.
I'm not sure I agree with that.
You're not only stubborn, you're stupid.
That I won't argue with. Annie emerges from the house and calls to Ray.
Honey, that was Mark. He's coming tonight. He needs a decision tonight.
Everything is so perfect here.
Whatever I have to do to save this place, I'll do.
I know. Suddenly, Ray snaps his head to the side, as one does to pick up a-distant sound.
He's here. They look and see Mark's car heading up the gravel lane. He parks the car at the edge of the field, and the game stops as he walks right across it, completely mindless of the players. Since he doesn't see any of them, a few actually have to move out of his way. He approaches the bottom of the bleachers.
You're interrupting the game, . Mark.
Ray, it's time'to put away our little fantasies and come down to earth.
It's not a fantasy, Mark. They're real. Mark obviously do.esn't see anyone on the field.
Shoeless Joe Jackson. The White Sox. The Giants.
And who's that? Babe Ruth? Ray smiles, savoring the moment.
As a matter of fact, it's Terence Mann.
Ah, how do you? I'm Michael Jackson.
I'm not selling you my home.
You have no money, you've got a stack of bills to choke a pig, and come fall, you've got no crop to sell. But I have a deal to offer you that will allow you to stay on this land. This has Ray's attention. Mark climbs the bleachers to stand closer to him.
Daddy, we don't have to sell the farm. But no one pays her any attention. All eyes are on Mark.
Let us buy you out, and we'll leave the house. You can live in it rent free as long as you want.
What about the baseball field?
Do you realize what this land is worth?
Over $2200 an acre.
Then you must realize we cannot keep a useless baseball diamond in the middle of rich farmland.
No deal, Mark. We're staying.
We don't have to go.
Daddy, we don't have to sell the farm.
Karin, please!
Wait. They all turn to Karin.
People will come.
What people, sweetheart?
From all over. They'll just decide to take a vacation, see, and they'll come to Iowa City, and they'll think it's really boring, so they'll take a drive. And they'll drive down our road, and they'll see the lights and they'll think it's really pretty. Ray, Annie, and Mann listen with wonder, to this vision.
So, the people in the cars? They'll drive up and they'll want to pay us, like buying a ticket. Mark looks at them all as if they're crazy.
You're not listening to this seriously, are you?
Yes.
Why would anybody pay money to come here? Karin looks at her Uncle mark as if he were a simpleton.
To watch the game. And it'll be just like when they were little kids a long time ago, and it was summertime, and they'll watch the game and .remember what it was like. Ray and Annie couldn't be prouder of their daughter than they are right now.
What the hell is she talking about?
She's talking about people seeing their memories... touching their past.
It'll be like one of those tiny, French restaurants that have no sign. You find it by instinct. They'll be drawn.
Okay, this is all fascinating, but the fact remains that you don't have the money to bring the mortgage up to date, so you still have to sell. I'm sorry, but you have no choice. He produces a document and hands it to Ray with a pen. Ray looks at it. He doesn't know what to do.
Ray... Ray looks at Mann.
speaks now as he has not spoken for many years: as Terence Mann, master of words, spellbinder.
People will come, Ray. They'll come to Iowa for reasons they can't even fathom. They'll turn up your driveway, not knowing for sure why they're doing it, and arrive at your door, innocent as children, longing for the past. 'Of course we won't mind if you look around,' you'll say. 'It's only twenty dollars per person.' And they'll pass over the money without even looking at it. For it is money they have, and peace they lack.
Just sign the papers, Ray.
They'll walk out to the bleachers and sit in shirtsleeves in the perfect evening, or they'll find they have reserved seats somewhere in the grandstand or along one of the baselines -- wherever they sat when they were children and cheered their heroes. They'll watch the game, and it will be as if they'd dipped themselves in magic waters. The memories will be so thick they'll have to brush them away from their faces.
Listen to me. Tomorrow morning, when the bank opens, they will foreclose.
People will come, Ray.
You're broke, Ray. Sell now or lose everything.
The one constant through all the years, Ray, has been baseball. America has rolled by like an`army of steamrollers. It's been erased like a blackboard, rebuilt, and erased again. But baseball has marked the time. This field, this game... it's a piece of our past. It reminds us of all that once was good. And that could be again. People will come. People will most definitely come. Mann has moved everyone  with the beauty of his words, and the passion in his.voice. Behind him, the assembled ballplayers respectfully applaud.
Ray. You will lose everything and you will be evicted. Ray looks at the paper with dread. He looks at Shoeless Joe and the players. He looks at his family. Then he turns back to Mark. It's decision time.
I'm not signing. Mark shakes his head sadly. Annie hugs Ray. The players breathe a great sigh of relief. Mann smiles.
Ray... Ray looks up at Mann, who, with a gentle tilt of the head, directs Ray's attention to the house. Ray looks behind him toward the house.
Some people,have gotten out of their cars and wait patiently. One or two families sit on their hoods, or have set up picnic dinners on their station wagons' tailgates.
Who's here?
 You don't see those cars? All those people?
Don't do this, you son of a bitch! There's no cars, no people...
Uncle Mark, I can see them.
We all can.
You're crazy. You're all bat-shit crazy!
Watch your language, Mark.
You build a baseball field in the middle of nowhere, you sit around here and stare at nothing ---
It's not nothing. Mark grabs Karin's arm and pulls her to her feet as if she were "Exhibit A."
And you've turned your daughter into a goddamn moron!
Get your hands off her. Ray rises threateningly, and Mark turns toward him. In so doing, he twists little Karin off balance.
I'm trying to help you, goddamnit! In that split second, they hear a strangled gasp, and see Karin falling forward from the top row of the bleachers.
Karin!!
Oh my God, I'm sorry...Annie...I didn't mean to... Karin is unconscious, and seems to be fighting for breath. Ray and Annie's eyes meet in anguish.
Should we move her?
Get the car.
Is there a doctor? A nurse? Any of you? They sadly shake their heads no. Annie races inside.
How long?
Its a twenty-minute drive. Mann winces. He knows that could be fatal. Ray kneels by Karin. Her nose and one side of her face have been scraped by the fall. Blood starts to trickle from her nose, across her cheek and down her neck. She is becoming bluer and her cough is faint, as though she is in another room.
Karin... Then, without reason, Ray slowly turns toward the field. The White Sox stand near him by the fence, the Giants stay around their bench. All except one: young Archie Graham.
As Graham gets closer, his features begin to change, and his step slows. He reaches the end of the fence -- around which no player can pass -- and when he emerges from the shadows on the bleachers side, he is no longer young Moonlight Graham, the ballplayer of long ago...but Doc Graham, the old man from Chisholm, Minnesota. His baseball glove has turned into a black doctor's bag.
What have we got here?
She fell. Doc kneels beside her and instantly knows what is wrong.
This child's choking to death.
She's okay. I don't think the fall really hurt her, just the dog in her throat. She'll be coming around in a minute or two.
No, son. Thank you. It just now sinking for Ray what-Doc Graham has sacrificed to save the child. Ray looks to the field, and then back at the Doctor.
'Oh, my God, you can't go back.
It's okay...
I saw...A11 of a sudden this kid runs off the field and turns.into...
There's hope for you yet, Mark.
Well, I best be getting back home before Alicia starts to thinking I've got a girlfriend. He walks around the edge of the fence, and heads for the outfield door. The players respectfully make way for him.
Good work, Doc.
Way to go, Doc.
Thanks, boys. Win one for me, someday, will you? He passes them.
Hev rookie! Doc Graham turns.
You were good. Only now do Doc Graham's eyes shine with tears. He smiles, and disappears through the door.
We're gonna call it a night. We'll see you tomorrow.
Okay.
Good night. Joe starts to trot off the field, then he stops and turns back to the bleachers.
Hey! You wanna come with us? Ray's jaw drops.
You mean it?
Not you.  Him.
Him?
Come with you?
Out there.
What is out there?
Come find out.
Wait a second. Why him? Shoeless Joe and the other players wait for Mann to join them, ignoring Ray's question.
I built this field! You wouldn't be here if it weren't for me.
Ray, for God's sake, I'm unattached. You've got a family. This takes Ray down a peg or two.
But I want to know what's out there! I want to see it!
There's a reason they chose me, just as there was a reason they chose you to find me.
Oh yeah? Why?
Because, you big jerk, I gave that interview.
What interview?
The one about Ebbets Field. The one that charged you up and sent you all the way to Boston to find me.
Then you lied to me.
You were kidnapping me at the time, you asshole! Think of it, Ray: maybe there's an Ebbets Field still floating around out there somewhere. And maybe I'll get to sit in the stands, and watch a twenty-year-old kid with a smooth face and kinky hair try out for the 1948 Dodgers.
 So I do all the work, and all I get is to see everybody else's dreams come true. Is that it?
What are you saying, Ray?
I'm saying I'm happy for you, and I'm happy for him, but after all this what's in it L for me?
Is that why you did this? For-you?
There's something out there for me, Ray. And what a story it'll make: a man being able to touch the perfect dream.
Then you'll write about it?
You bet I will. Annie walks Karin over. Ray bends down to Karin's face.
How you feeling, honey?
Stupid. Ray laughs and hugs her. He looks up at Annie.
Terry's been invited to go-with the players.
You mean 'out'?
Doo-doo-doo-doo. Be careful. She smiles brightly and gives Mann a kiss on the cheek. Mann shakes Ray's hand.
I want a full description.
-You take care of this family, Ray. Mann joins several of the White Sox as they leave the field.
He just... Where'd he...?
You go inside and lie down. I'll explain later. Mark walks off toward the people in their cars outside the house.
Where'd all these people come from...?
Only a few players are left on the field.
We're keeping this field.
You bet your ass we are. Ray realizes Shoeless Joe is staring at him, with a shit-eating grin on his face.
What.. Shoeless Joe just keeps smiling.
What're you grinning at, you ghost?
'If you build it... He nods toward where the catcher is taking off his gear at home plate.
' .he will come.' Ray looks at the Catcher. The hairs on the back of his neck begin to stand up.
Oh, my God.
What is it?
Its my father.
Say it ain't so,- Joe.
I'm afraid it is, kid. The Catcher is now walking toward Ray.
'Ease his pain...'
 'Go the distance.' When he says those words, Shoeless Joe sounds just like The Voice.
It was you.
No, Ray. It was you. Shoeless joe winks and walks away, disappearing through the door in the outfield fence.
My God, I only saw him later, when he was worn down by life. Look at him. The young Catcher has reached the outfield grass. Ray walks down to the edge of the outfield.
He has his whole life in front of him, and I'm not even a glint in his eye. What do I say to him?
Introduce him to his granddaughter. Ray cannot believe how wonderful Annie is. The Catcher has reached the edge of the field, and now stands before Ray and Annie.
Hi, I just wanted to thank you folks for putting up the field and letting us play here. I'm John Kinsella. They shake his hand.
I'm Ray. My wife Annie. And this is my daughter, Karin.
Ray and Annie are beaming. Annie takes Karin's hand.
We're going to let you two talk. I have to go look after our guests. Someone's gotta start collecting admission if we're going to keep this place.  Very nice meeting you.
M' am.
You catch a good game.
Thank you. It's so beautiful here. Its like-well for me, it's like a dream come true. Ray cannot speak. He nods.
Can I ask you something? Again, Ray nods.
Is this heaven? Ray smiles and shakes his head no.
It's Iowa.
Iowa. I could've sworn this was heaven.
stops and looks intently at John. He asks this question as if he were asking the secret of life. Maybe he is.
Is there a heaven?
Oh, yeah... Then he looks square into Ray's eyes.
Heaven's where dreams come true.
Then maybe this is heaven.
Well...good night, Ray.
Good night.
Hey! John turns back. Ray is holding a ball.
You wanna have a catch? John closes his eyes for a second, and when he opens them; there is the hint of moisture. Does he know Ray is his son?
I'd like that.
