"And if you love him/Oh be proud of him/For after all, he's just a man..."
"Stand by your man/And show the world you love him/Keep giving all the love you can/Stand by your man."
 I'm gonna play it again...
You're not going to play it again.
Well, lemme play the other side then.
No.
Now quit, Bobby. You said you're goin' a help me pick a song.
You said.
Well, lemme sing the one I picked an' see what you think...  "When there's a fire in your heart/Break the glass/Sound the alarm..."
Oh, you prick...
How 'bout if I just cut off your damn water?
I'm too moved by your gentility to speak.
Sugar, you know how I feel about you, don't you? I'm just tryin' to get you to take an interest in my kind a things, an' what I'm tryin' to do with myself... (bringing her face close to his) You know, there id'n anything in the world I wouldn't do for you, baby. I started livin' the day I found you, you know that?
You're playing the other side.
Cerveza.
 Serveza yourself!
Now, now.
 No, dammit, I would easy.
But you heal fast.
 You can play the piano, an' your whole damn family can play on some type a musical instrument. An' all I'm askin' is for you to listen to my singing for one single little second...
But you think you would? No, you're too damn selfish...
Why'nt you take 'at sign off your tit, Ray, an' let's go on out.
Out where?
I don't know, I'll holler up Elton an' Stoney...
I'll go out with you, or I'll stay here, and do anything you'd like for me to do... if you'll just do one thing. If you'll tell me that you love me.
You can sing the song.
 You know what, you are never satisfied.
That's right, hand.
Oh, now, baby...
 Your ball, Ray.
 Is this suppose to be fun?
Go on, get up there...
... and stay relaxed this time.
Now don't loft it, just release it like I told you.
The ball's too heavy for me, honey...
It's not the damn ball.
I'm tryin', baby, so don't start gettin' mad now.
No, I'm not mad at you, hand. It'll be all right. Just spot and follow through...
 Shit.
Nice ball, El.
Id'n he somethin' to see?
Is it my turn again?
Right. Now show me a little somethin' this time, okay? Give me some form...
I can't help it, honey, the ball just keeps goin' cocky wobbly on me...
Will you just do what the hell I tell you...
I did, didn' I, El?
You got another ball comin'.
Atta boy, Ray!
That was damn good, wad'n it? I finally did it...
Yeah, great. (begins removing his bowling shoes) Why don't you throw Z's for 19 frames, and then roll a strike on the last ball in the last frame of a losing game? Just wonderful.
Wasn't it, ladies?
 Are you talking to us?
I'm gonna go wait in the car.
Yeah, why don't you do that.
Wait an I'll I go with you, honey...
 We gotta get on home an' relieve the sitter. Why'nt you an' Ray come on over.
Okay. Go ahead. I'll settle up for the beers... (hands him the bowling shoes) An' walk Rayette over with you, will you.
Can I get you anything else?
No. How much do I owe you?
Five'll do it.
We been wantin' to ask you something. Are you the guy on YV?
Am I on TV?
 She says you're the one that sells all the cars on TV.
Well, I don't claim to have sold 'em all. They still have some left, I believe.
See, I told you it was him...  Your name's Donnie something, right?
I leave it to you.
My name is Shirley, but they call me Betty, and her name's Twinky.
 Twinky?
 Yeah, 'cause she's so "twinky"...
 Well, Betty and Twinky, it sure is nice talking to you girls. I just wish I had more time...
That's a wig you wear, isn't it?
 A wig?
Yeah, I told her it was you, but that you're wearing a wig, 'cause on TV you're mostly bald in the front.
 Your little friend's real sharp there...  Yeah, I don't like to wear the wig on TV, because with two and a half million people watching you, you've gotta be sincere. I just like to wear it when I'm out slippin' around bowling alleys an' things like that. I think it gives me a little more class, don't you?
Oh, definitely...
 Yeah, but I can see a little bitty of the net up there, that's what give it away.
It's so weird to see you in person, but that's who she says you are.
 It is him, he said it's him.  Aren't you.
Yeah, you could say it's me.
I'm gonna give you our number, Donnie, just in case...  We're both professionals, if you didn't guess.
Well, you seem very professional...
 I always tell everyone the same thing. I got rolled and beat up real bad recently, and since then it's two for one, an' I work strictly in tandem with Betty...
Yeah, I can see how she'd come in handy.
Come on. We're goin' over to Elton's.
I'm not.
You just going to sit there?
Yes.
Okay. Hope no one hits on you.
I hope they do.
See you later, then...
No one would want to hit on you, you look too pathetic.
Come on, DiPesto. We can still have a good time.
You're the pathetic one, not me.
I'm going on over there...
I'm not some piece a crap.
I know you're not.
You treat me like I was.
I'm sorry.
 You go slippin' around in front a my face, an' in front a Elton an' Stoney. What do you imagine they think a someone you treat that way...
Now, hand...
Elton and Stoney know how I feel about you. An' they're just goin' to think I'm not too nice a guy, which I'm not, an' that you're a hell of a person puttin' up with me, that's all.
You're goin' a find me dead one time.
Sssh, come on now...  Be a good girl.
If you really want a get up an' leave me, you can read about it in the newsprint.
I'm not going to get up an' leave you.  Now let's go over to El's an' have a good time.
Do you love me, Bobby?
Well now, what do you think?
God, id'n she the cutest damn thing in your life!
Can you believe this shit?
Goddamned freeway... Jesus Christ...
Give 'em the horn, Bob.
Look at these assholes! What the hell are they doing?!
I can't take this shit anymore.
Hey, get off my car!
Where the hell's he goin'?
Hey, Bob! Come on! Quit foolin' around!
Shit, what's he doin'?
You better get your butt off there, Bob! Come on, now!!
I was with Elton last night, Ray.
It's the truth.
Rayette...
You son of a bitch.
Rayette is seated on an adjacent chair, holding an infant in her lap, cooing and fawning over it throughout the following.
I swore to God I'd never hire on to this type a work again. Christ, I don't know how the hell I let you talk me into it...
Give me a swig, hon'.
You didn' know I was a derrickman once, did you?
Down in the southern fields, an' man, did I hate it. An' Stoney's brother was a well-puller, wad'n he, honey? The one with three fingers?
 My brother Cruser, yeah...
I once hung suspendered 90 feet up on a tour, like a damn circus artist...
Honey, took at this little bugger.
Near broke my damn neck...
Id'n he the cutest little guy?
Very cute... Put it down, an' let's go.
You know, you oughta get you one them things, Bob.
 Yeah...  An' I oughta live in a trailer park with my front teeth poked out...
Well, what if she was, Bob? I can't see nothin' so bad in it...
What if I was to let you in on the little fact that she is.
That's right. She told me. An' she's all tore up about it, which I hate a see.
Hell, id'n it just somethin' to face up to? I'll tell you, somewhere along the line, you even get to likin' the whole idea...
I recall when Stoney first give me the news, I could a shit...
Well, id'n that nice.
 It's ridiculous! I'm sitting here, listening to some asshole cracker compare his life to mine!
Just keep telling me about the good life, Elton, if you want a see me puke my lunch!
If you're sayin' you're somethin' better'n what I am, that's one thing. But I can't say much a someone who'd run off an' leave a woman in a situation like this an' feel easy about it. An' that's all I gotta say.
I hope that's all you gotta say, El, 'cause I'm about as tired of your mouth as I am workin' this stinkin' hole!
Shit ass!!
Hey, Longcipher! I'm quitting!
Longcipher! I'm talking to you!
Did you hear me?! I said I'm quitting!
I don't give a shit what you do. You ben more trouble than you're worth, an' I'm damn glad to be rid of both a you assholes.
Hey! What's goin' on?!
Don't do that, Bob!! It's the Law!
It's the Law, Bob, don't mix in!
Look out behind!
Hey, don't do that. Don't you think you could just leave him...
Sure as hell he wouldn' a done that if he'd known who you was... Would you, Bob?
Christ Almighty, what's happening here?
Okay, let him go.
Tell me what in the hell's going on, Elton!
I got accused a robbin' a fillin'station down in the Indian Nation, didn' I tell you...
Come on.
I got wild an' jumped my bail...
Move it!
 An' here they come runnin' after me a year later... Ain't that somethin'?
Tell Stoney for me, will you?! Tell her to come get me...
Donnie, oh Donnie...
There she goes again.
My 1-year-old can carry a tune better than that.
Miss Dupea.
 Miss Dupea.
 Yes.
I'd like to remind you again, this isn't an opera or a musical comedy.
Oh... I'm sorry. Was I singing again?
If you want to call it that.
Well, you have to simply tell me, that's all.
That's exactly what I am doing, again.
Do you have to let me get halfway through the movement first? This is tiring me.
I have a suggestion. Why don't we take a break.
Oh, for pity's sake...
Is she going to cry again?
I don't want to take a break.
What would you like in your coffee?
Tea.
Would you tell her Bobby's here?
 Miss Dupea, Bobby's here.
 Oh my goodness... Bobby...
Hi, Tita.
Robert Eroica...
Now don't...
No, I'm not... (taking a deep breath, then:) I'm not.
That's good.
I just can't look at you.
Don't, then.
You always do this to me.
Well, I don't mean to. (setting the cup down on the piano) Here's your tea, Tita.
Thank you...  Oh no, don't put it on there...
Sorry.
 This is a very special, very old CB 275...
Oh.
You know who it once belonged to?
No.
Waldnit von Schnechter. Prewar.
 No kidding.
It has absolutely no objectionable idiosyncrasies...
Robert...
 Very nice.
I have to talk seriously with you...
Everybody still up on the Island?
Well, Herbert's mostly on the mainland because of the orchestra, so at the moment, there's just Daddy, Carl and myself... and Van Oost.
Who's Van Oost?
 Catherine -- she's a pianist. She's working with Carl.
Carl's a fiddler. What's he doing coaching piano?
Well, 11 months ago he was on his bicycle, on his way to the post office in La Roche... and he ran into a Jeep and sprained his neck...
Sprained his neck?
It's not funny. He permanently sprained his neck, and since then it's been extremely difficult for him to tuck the violin.
Crashes into a Jeep and totals his neck.  That's Carl...
Robert, I have to tell you something...
What?
Daddy's very ill.
Oh, well, what, what's he...
He's had two strokes.
He's not... They feel he... maybe he might not recover, and that he'll either...
 Don't tell me about this...
But don't you think it's right, though, that you should see him, at least once...
 We're ready Miss Dupea.
 Just a minute, please!  Robert, don't you think it's right that you should see him?
Yeah... I guess so...
I'm going back up tonight. Will you go with me?
No...
I'd rather drive up myself and... maybe go into Canada after... And I can't stay long, Tita, probably a week, at the most.
I know.
Well...  I better let you...
Wait...
I'll walk out with you...
I'll be back in two minutes!
Cut that in half, will you?
They hate me, I feel.
Maybe you better stay, then.
No, I need to talk to you, about so many things...
Well, I'll be seeing you in a couple of days, won't I?
Oh God, I'm so glad, Robert, that you're coming...
Yeah, me, too...
It'll be so good for you, and for Daddy, because you know, you've never really...
 Tita, I've got to go...
All right...
Okay.
 Hello?!
You have the day off?!
Are you sick?
You heard about Elton, I guess.
Okay, I get your point.
Hope you didn't strain yourself, getting in here and into your pose before I hit the door.
I have to go home. My father's sick.
Yeah, it's very funny.
I'll be gone two or three weeks.
 You'll be gone, period.
I'll try and call you from up there.
 Come on, DiPesto. I never told you it would work out to anything. Did I?
I'll send you some money, that's all I can do.
And... I'll call you, like I said...  Bye, Ray.
Do you want to go with me, Ray?
"There's been hot spells/An' cold spells ever since we met/I've seen your small fires/Your big fires/But I won't give up yet/Oh someday you'll yearn/'Cause your heart's gonna burn/For that old familiar glow/You'll be burned..."
You like it?
I love it.
 "You'll be burned out/Or smoked out/An' come back to me, I know..."
"Every trail that you blaze/Makes me..."
What the hell is that?
Is it an accident?
Hey! What's going on, what's the trouble?!
Rotate, mack!
What'd she say?
Look at my car! Piece of shit! I just bought it brand new from a used-car lot, and the steering goes to the pot on me!
You're lucky no one was hurt.
Seven hundred dollars, down the toilet! I'd like to go back and punch the son of a bitch out! Can you give us a lift?
Come on, Terry, we got a ride!
Jesus, what a rude person...
What's your name?
Palm Apodaca.
An' what's your name?
Terry Grouse.
 What?
 I'll tell you...  ... l-a-t-e-r.
How far are you going to?
Washington.
We'll get off in Washington and hook another ride.
Where are you going?
Alaska.
Alaska? Are you on vacation?
 She wants to live there, because she thinks it's cleaner.
Cleaner than what?
 You don't have to tell everybody about it. Pretty soon they'll all go there and it won't be so clean.
How do you know it's clean?
I saw a picture of it. Alaska is very clean. It appeared to look very white to me... Don't you think?
Yeah. That's before the big thaw.
Before the what?
I had to leave this place. I got depressed, seeing all the crap. And the thing is, they're making more crap, you know? They've got so many stores and stuff and junk full of crap, I can't believe it.
Who?
Who? People, that's who! Pretty soon there won't be room for anyone. They're selling more crap that people go and buy than you can imagine. Oofh! Crap! I believe everybody should have a big hole where they throw in all this stuff and burn it.
There'd never be a hole big enough. Now took at me, for instance, when I was just one person, before Bobby, I had so much garbage collectin' onto me every day, I was thinkin' about gettin a dispose all...
A dispose-all, what's that but more crap? I've never seen such crap. Oofh, I don't know how people get up in the morning.
Mass production is what does it.
What do you mean "mass"... I have to come out and tell you, you're not that clean, either.
Wait a minute. I'm not that neat, maybe, but I am clean.
Well, you're not that bad, but some people... I mean, people's homes, just filth. I've been in people's homes...
In my personal observation, I think that more people are neat than are clean...
In my personal thing, I don't see that. I'm seeing more filth. A lot of filth. What they need to do every day, no, once in a while, is a cockroach thing, where they spray the homes. And uh... can you imagine, if their doors were painted a pretty color, and they had a pot outside, with...
Yeah, it could be adorable...
And they picked up! I mean, it wouldn't be filthy, with Coke bottles and whiskey, and those signs everywhere...
... they oughta be erased! All those signs, selling crap, and more crap, and, I don't know, it's disgusting, I don't even want to talk about it!
Well...
It's just filthy. People are dirty. I think that's the biggest thing that's wrong with people. I think they wouldn't be as violent if they were clean, because then they wouldn't have anybody to pick on... Oofh... Dirt...
Well...
Not dirt. See, dirt isn't bad. It's filth. Filth is bad. That's what starts maggots and riots...
Hey, follow that truck. They know the best places to stop.
That's an old maid's tale.
Bullshit! Truck drivers know the best eating places on the road.
Salesmen and cops are the ones. If you'd ever waitressed, honey, you'd know.
Don't call me "honey," mack.
Don't call me "mack," honey.
I wouldn't be a waitress. They're nasty and full of crap.
You better hold onto your tongue!
 Hold onto this.
Just one minute, you! Don't you ever talk to me like that!
Shut up! All of you!
 I'll have an omelette, no potatoes. Give me tomatoes instead, and wheat toast instead of rolls.
No substitutions.
What does that mean? You don't have any tomatoes?
 No. We have tomatoes.
But I can't have any. Is that what you mean?
Only what's on the menu... (again, indicating  with her pencil) A Number Two: Plain omelette. It comes with cottage fries and rolls.
I know what it comes with, but that's not what I want.
I'll come back when you've made up your mind...
Wait, I've made up my mind. I want a plain omelette, forget the tomatoes, don't put potatoes on the plate, and give me a side of wheat toast and a cup of coffee.
I'm sorry, we don't have side orders of toast. I can give you an English muffin or a coffee roll.
What do you mean, you don't have side orders of toast? You make sandwiches, don't you?
Would you like to talk to the manager?
Hey, mack!
 Shut up.  You have bread, don't you, and a toaster of some kind?
I don't make the rules.
Okay, I'll make it as easy for you as I can. Give me an omelette, plain, and a chicken salad sandwich on wheat toast -- no butter, no mayonnaise, no lettuce -- and a cup of coffee.
One Number Two, and a chicken sal san -- hold the butter, the mayo, the lettuce -- and a cup of coffee... Anything else?
Now all you have to do is hold the chicken, bring me the toast, charge me for the sandwich, and you haven't broken any rules.
 You want me to hold the chicken.
Yeah. I want you to hold it between your knees.
You see that sign, sir?!
You'll all have to leave, I'm not taking any more of your smartness and your sarcasm!
You see this sign?
Fantastic! That you could figure all that out, and lay that down on her, to come up with a way you could get your toast.
I didn't get it, did I?
No, but it was very clever... I would of just punched her out.
People... Oofh... (shaking her head in utter disgust) Animals are not like that... They're always cleaning themselves. Did you ever see... What are they called? Pigeons!
He's always picking on himself and his friends. They're always picking bugs out of their hair...
Monkeys, too.
Except monkeys do things out in the open that I don't go for.
I was in this place once, this store, with snakes, monkeys, everything you could imagine. I walked in, I had to run out. It stunk! They didn't even have an incense going...
And you know, I read where they invented this car that runs on... that runs on... when you boil water...
 Steam.
Right, steam. A car you could ride around in and not cause a stink. But do you know, they will not even let us have it. Can you believe it? Why?! Man! He likes to create a stink. I wrote them a note once, and told them to clean it... I mean, don't you see that? It's just filthy! I mean, I've seen filth you wouldn't believe! Oofh, what a stink! I don't even want to talk about it...
Are you depressed about your daddy, honey?
No.
I 'magine it's me then, id'n it?
Is what you?
You're depressed that I come along.
Who said I was depressed?
Well, is that a happy face I see?
'Cause if it was me, I could just catch a Greyhound back.
Oh, you're not going to kill yourself this time. I wish I'd known...
I don't know if I'm gonna be able to sleep or not.
 Hint, hint.
 I guess I'll just have to count the sheep.  One-two-three-four...
Seven... eight...  Look at this old cold shoulder, what am I gonna do with it?
If you just wouldn't open your mouth, everything would be fine.
Tick a lock.
Why can't I go out to your folks' house? Give me one good reason.
I have to see how things are first. My father's sick, you understand? They wouldn't be prepared for me bringing anyone.
So how long am I supposed to sit an' twiddle my thumbs in this place?
If you can't do what I ask, Ray, use that money to go back home, then.
Bobby, don't talk like that...
It'll be all right, I'll get a hold a some magazines an' things like that. An' maybe find a beauty salon an' get my hair fixed, okay?
Okay, Ray...
Or maybe sit out by the pool an' get myself nice an' tan for you. Would you like that?
 Sure...
It brings out my eyes...
Bye, honey, I'll call you in a couple of days.
Okay...
Bye, baby...
He doesn't even know who the hell I am.
Remember, Bobby, what mother used to say when...
 How long have you been...  Oh, excuse me...
No, it's all right, you go ahead...
I was just going to ask Robert how long he's been away from here.
Four or five years.
No, the last time was three years ago.
Oh no, it's been much more than that.
Away from the piano, Tita, you have no sense of time at all.
I don't think that's true.
It is true.
Besides being very rude.
What have you been doing since then?
What have I been doing? Different things, different jobs, here and there. Nothing that interesting.
And you no longer play at all?
You know, just after I came back off tour with the Betenthaller Quartet, Dad, myself and Herbert had a summit conference about you...
Oh, my, "a summit conference." I wonder where I was, polishing silver behind the coal bin.
I don't know where you were, penis envy.
I hope I didn't hear that.
At any rate, Dad wanted to hire a private detective to ferret you out, and I said, "What for?" Whatever the hell he's doing, even if it's a completely wasteful escapade, it's entirely his business. Simple as that...
Well, I really appreciate it, Carl.
I don't think you should infer Daddy was wrong in front of him...
Don't force him like that, Spicer.
 How long have you been staying here?
A couple of months.
Did you hear about my misfortune, Robert?
What?
It's still nearly impossible for me to turn my neck. If I wanted to turn toward Catherine, for instance, I'd first have to twist the whole base of my body around...  ... like this...
I wouldn't mind doing a little work, if you're finished, and not too tired...
No, I'm finished... (placing a hand on his stomach) Satiety is my father and mother.
She's tremendously gifted, this girl.
 Is she?
Excuse me, I don't want to hear this...
I hope you feel at home, Robert. (patting him on the shoulder) I'm really glad you're here.
Thanks, Carl...
He has ways of communicating, Robert. I can tell when he's expressing approval or disapproval, just from his eyes...
Uhm hmm. Some range.
It's not that bad.
Yes, it is. I can't take seeing him, sitting there like a stone.
A week or two isn't going to ruin your life, for Godsakes.
I mean, you think I'm that happy?
No, I don't.  You should've left a long time ago.
We can't all get up and leave, can we? I mean, there are certain needs you have to respond to...
And anyway, I want you to stay, so I can spend some time with you, and ask you some questions...
What questions?
Well, do you -- I mean, have you enjoyed all these... strange things you've been doing?
Sometimes.
Why? Am I some kind of freak to you or something?
No, no, I don't think that, I'm just curious about it...  Do you think I'm a freak?
Sort of.
Oh no... Why? What is it? The way I look?
No, I don't really think you're a freak.
I probably am, but I don't care. I mean, I wasn't that blessed to begin with, and when would I have had time to make any improvements...
What about Carl and Catherine? Is he just coaching her, or what?
Constantly. Night and day. And unless I get up before the birds, I can't get in any practice time for myself...
Uhm hmm.
Actually, it's very admirable, the way she works. She'll probably be enormously successful, because she's attractive as well, not that that's so important in music, but...
You're attractive, Tita. If you just did a little more with yourself...
Like what?
Well, if you just maybe did something with your hair, or...
Oh, let's not talk about my hair, it does what it wants to, and anyway, who cares, I want to talk about you...
There's nothing to say, Tita...
Well, you're not going to run out on me right away, are you?
I don't know.
Oh God, don't sneak up on me like that!
Sorry.
Hello...
I guess you fell in the water.
 Yes, intentionally.
That's dangerous, you know.
Swimming?
Playing piano all day and then jumping into cold water. You could get a cramp.
I love to swim, and I don't mind the cold at all. It's invigorating.
Well, I wouldn't want to get too invigorated myself.
Why?
What would I do with it? Run amok?
Besides piano and swimming, what else do you do?
Well, there's fishing and boating. There's concerts on the mainland and... but I feel silly telling you. This is really your home. You probably know better than I what there is to do.
Nothing.
Nothing? Then it must be very boring for you here.
That's right. Have you anything to suggest?
I don't know. Let me give it some thought.
What're you doing right now...
Right now I'm going to run a hot tub and soak myself.
Then after that?
After that, I plan to read some music and rest for awhile.
Tomorrow, then.
Tomorrow's a full practice day...  But the day after is kind of open.
Carl has hydrotherapy on Tuesdays.
 The day after tomorrow.
If you're free.
Yeah, I'll probably be free.
Don't laugh...
What's wrong, Carl, you hardly ate anything...
I took some aspirin and it really upset my stomach.
One thing that's hard to understand is how you could have this incredible background in music, and then just walk away from it, without a second thought...
I gave it a second thought.
He looks tired to me, Spicer. I think you should put him to bed.
I mean, how could you not play anymore? That's so strange to me...
I have played a few times. Here and there. As a matter of fact, I was once a rehearsal pianist for a Las Vegas musical revue.
You don't call that music, though.
Of course I do. It's music. You know...
Robert, do you mind?
What?
Nothing. Will you excuse us for a while?
We really don't have to, Carl, if you're not feeling good...
 Well, maybe if we put the Thermaphore on me for a while, first...
Oh, all right.
Do you want some gingerbread?
 What?
With applesauce?
No, thanks...
Yeah, well fine, you know what I suggest, Ray...  Because I don't know how long. Things are not going that well here...
Yeah, well I'm not having any fun, either, so why don't you...  No, you can't, it's just not convenient, and I have to get off...  Ray, I really have to go, I have to get off now...  Another couple of days, maybe. I'll call you and let you --  All right, if you're gone, you're gone. Now I have to get off, okay?  Bye, Ray...
Only 10 minutes of playing and it's already killing my neck...
You sure you should be playing, Carl?
What do you mean? Aside from my neck, I'm in superb shape.
 I don't know, there's something wrong with the way you move.
I'm not aware of it. Like what?
Your serve. Two -- Eighteen.
I'd hate to see you walk across a concert stage like that.
Two -- Nineteen.
 I've walked across a stage a number of times, without exciting any particular response...
That's what I mean...
Any particular humor, I meant.
 I think you should get someone to coach you how to walk. I think it's a substantial problem.
Dammit!
Look at that.
Why are you being so mean?
I'm not. He does walk funny. Don't you see that?
I don't think I'd notice. I'm so used to Carl.
 Yeah, well, he's...
Bobby? Do you think Spicer is attractive?
I think he's got a terrific personality.
You know, he was formerly a sailor.
Look, can't you see that, what I'm talking about?
Sailors are sadistic, I feel.
See? There's nothing wrong with the way I walk. Now where are we?
At game, Carl.
That's three games to none, Carl.
All right, let's have a rematch.
I thought you had to go to the mainland today. Aren't you going to miss the ferry?
Too bad. Just when I was hitting my stride.
Say goodbye to Catherine for me, will you?
Can I play now?
Tell her I'll be back sometime tomorrow!
Where is she, anyway?
 My turn.
Why don't you and Spicer play?
That was beautiful, Robert. I'm surprised...
Thank you.
I was really very moved by the way you...
Is that funny?
It wasn't supposed to be, it just struck me that way.
Why?
Nothing. It's just that... I picked the easiest piece I could remember. I think I first played it when I was 8 years old and I played it better then.
It doesn't matter. It was the feeling I was affected by.
I didn't have any.
You had no inner feeling?
None.
Then I must have been supplying it.
Wait...
Well, at least you're accomplished at something...
What?
At being a fake.
Catherine...
No, you're very good at it. I'm really impressed.
Shit.
You think I'm a fake.
I think it's what you think.
No, it isn't what I think.
Look... You made a very calculated move, and then made me feel embarrassed for responding to you. That wasn't necessary.
Yes, it was. You've made it clear that if I can cut a little piano, I might get a little response.
 I don't think that's accurate...
Up to now, what I've been getting from you are meaningful looks over the dinner table and a lot of vague suggestions about the day after tomorrow...
I'm not conscious of having given you any meaningful looks. And as for the day after tomorrow, this is the day after tomorrow, and I am, unfortunately, seeing you... Now if you'll excuse me, I'd like to take a bath.
It's convenient to fake looking for something right now, isn't it?
I'm not faking anything. I'm looking for some bath oil...
Some bath oil?
What about this one?  Or this one?  How about some jasmine?  What about some musk?
What are you doing!
 What are you doing, screwing around with this crap?!
I don't find your language that charming.
It's direct, anyway, which seems to be difficult for you.
I'd like you to leave now. Is that direct enough?
You're not a serious person, by your own admission. And that may be interesting, but it doesn't interest me...
Serious, that's what's important to you?
Yes, that's what's important to me...
Okay, let's be serious...
No, don't do that...
Shut up...
No inner feeling.
That's right.
I don't believe vou.
I married him when I was 17. He was a cellist, and I thought he was the most brilliant man I'd ever met... And I'm sure he was, because at that age, I hadn't met that many... But he was insidious, you know. He had me convinced that I was a mediocrity, musically, as a woman, as an intellect. But in this completely imperceptible, pleasant way, so that you weren't even sure he was doing it. Anyway, I just woke up one morning and I said, you know something Joseph, you're full of beans, and I left him...
That's what you said?
Something witty and devastating like that.
As a matter of fact, he's the one who introduced me to Carl...  How are you?
I'm fine.
Carl restored my confidence. He really did. He's much more substantial than you give him credit for.
Is he?
Yes.
Do you think you could discreetly move across the hall now?
Yeah, I think I could.
Robert?
What?
I could spend some time with you tomorrow morning, before Carl comes back, I mean, if you'd like to.
Of course I'd like to.
You certainly do have a beautiful piece a real estate out here, Mr. Dupea.
 Can he hear me?
 He's not hard of hearing.
Well, that's a blessing, at least.
This certainly is an improvement on the motel an' the coffee shop.  How could you have left such a beautiful place, Bobby?
I don't know.
You've been staying in a motel all this time?
For two whole weeks, an' there wasn't hardly nobody there to talk to but me. The manager of the place told me it was the off season, an' it must a ben, because other'n me, there was just this 25-year-old kid, DeLyon, that didn't appear to be all there, an' this old married pair next to me that was always hollerin' for quiet. Can you imagine? All you could a heard there was a pin, an' them, hollerin' away...
I don't understand why you had to stay in a motel. There's more than enough room here.
Well, I was goin' to, but Bobby said he hadda kind of feel things up here first, which I can understand, but then it went an' took so long, I ran flat outa money...  I didn't have no number to call, you know.  So I hadda clear outa there an' come on up here, in the hopes that I wouldn't be intrudin' myself...
Oh, no. You're more than welcome.
Well, thank you, that's a very nice thing for you to say.
Not at all.
That certainly is a beautiful head a hair you have.
Thank you.
Is it natural?
Rayette.
What?
Just finish eating.
Oh, am I holdin' up dessert?
No, you're not. Go ahead and take your time.
I do eat slow as a bird, whereas Bobby can put it away like a speed swing...  Is there any ketchup around?
Oh, for chrissakes...
Robert, let's not be rude, okay?
It's all right. He don't mean anything by that.
I don't, huh?
I guess Bobby's just about the moodiest man I ever ben with...
Where are you going?
I'm going to pick up some friends of Carl's. Are you all right?
I have to talk to you.
I'll be back later...
No, I want to talk to you now. I have to explain something about...
No, you don't have to, it isn't necessary...
 Yes, it is!
Come on, get moving, dammit!!
 Will you shut up for a minute!!  Pull your car out of line.
No, I can't...
Will you let me talk to you, please?
I can't do that. I haven't been being fair to Carl. I have to tell you that.
 Oh. You have to tell me that.
What?! I can't hear you!
I'm sorry everything's been so confusing, but I have to go, Robert...
Catherine...
Please, I'll see you later this evening.
But the point is, man is born into the world with a pre-existent adversary, both real and imaginary, so you'd have to say that aggression was one of his primary, psychic inheritances, which...
If I may beg to differ...
Beg all you like, John, but the fact remains that man takes enormous delight in aggressive acts, as well as the portrayal of aggressive acts, and to be triumphant over another no matter how, seems fundamental to his having a sense of well being, as well as...
No, I don't quarrel with your inference, but you draw too long a bow in your conclusions, which seem unnecessarily harsh and...
Well, I don't make poetry. As an analyst, I...
Is there a TV in the house?
John believes in the basic goodness of man, and that's fine, but gaze into the pit like I have and that view seems a little soporific. And not unlike television, it hardly represents the real world...
There's some good things on it, though.
Pardon me?
The TV. There's some good things on it, sometimes.
I strongly doubt it, but I wasn't really discussing media...
If you really hold such bleak views, how can you, in good conscience, carry on a practice?
Oh, there's always hope, I think, for a few individuals, if they're courageous enough to shed their illusions and their...
 And what about love?
What about it? Wouldn't you agree that a great deal of mischief has been done in the name of love?
No, I wouldn't.
Well, you're a romantic, Catherine, as are most musicians, and what's more, about to be married...
... which should exclude you from any objective discussion. But keep in mind, even the arts aren't free of aggressive content, nor the institution of marriage.
I think these cold, "objective" discussions are aggressive, Samia...
But I'd like to say, so that I don't dampen the spirit of your adventure...
 You haven't dampened my spirit, Samia... Excuse me.
Well, I should hope not...
Because obviously there are loftier classes of people that do establish a kind of relating, that's relatively free of...
What kind of doggy is that?
It's a Borzoi.
Oh, uh huh. I had a little kittycat once, that Bobby give me...
Remember, Bobby?! The little pussycat you gave me?!
She had four little white paws, an' oh, was I crazy over her. We hadda go an' leave her one time at some friends, an' she went out an' got smashed flatter'n a tortilla right outside their mobile home.
There. You see what I mean?
The choice of words, "squashed flat," juxtaposed against the image of a fluffy kitten...
Well, she was.
Perhaps...
But you see how close that is to what I'm trying to...
Don't sit there pointing at her.
I beg your pardon.
 I said, don't point at her like that! What gives you the right to sit there and tell anybody about class and who the hell's got it, and what she typifies! You shouldn't even be in the same room with her, you creep!
Carl, this is really too much...
 You're totally full of shit!
Robert, I think you better just...
 You're all full of shit!
Bobby...
 I can't talk to you right now, leave me alone...
Tita, what the hell are you doing?!
Hey, this is my room.
 What's going on here!?
It's none of your business!
Where's Catherine?!
I don't know where she is!
Don't you believe in knocking, pal?
I'm talking to you, Tita!
 Can't I have anything to myself, dammit?!
 Come on now, out!
 Keep your fucking hands off my sister, nurse!
Did you hear me! Move out!!
Stop it! Bobby, will just you stop! I mean it!
Hold it, just hold it!!
Carl! Somebody get Carl!
Take it easy, dammit!
Stop it! Right now! Just stop it!! Carl!!
Give up! Give up! Give up! Give up! Give up! Give up!
Oh God, Bobby, look what you've done...
I just wanted to talk to you for a minute.
No. It's useless, Robert. It wouldn't work, not ever...
Just give me a chance, will you?
I'm trying to be delicate with you, but you're not understanding me. It's not just because of Carl, or my music, but because of you...  I mean, what would it come to? If a person has no love for himself, no respect, no love for his work, his family, his friends, something... How can he ask for love in return? I mean, why should he ask for it?
And living out here, in this rest home asylum, that's what you want?
Yes.
 That'll make you happy.
I hope it will, yes.  I'm sorry.
Okay.
Are you cold?
I don't know if you'd be particularly interested in hearing anything about me. My life, I mean... Most of it doesn't add up to much... that I could relate as a way of life that you'd approve of...
I'd like to be able to tell you why, but I don't really... I mean, I move around a lot because things tend to get bad when I stay. And I'm looking... for auspicious beginnings, I guess...
I'm trying to, you know, imagine your half of this conversation... My feeling is, that if you could talk, we probably wouldn't be talking. That's pretty much how it got to be before. I left...  Are you all right?
I don't know what to say...
Tita suggested that we try to... I don't know. I think that she... seems to feel we've got... some understanding to reach... She totally denies the fact that we were never that comfortable with each other to begin with... (pauses, trying to gain control) The best I can do, is apologize.
We both know I was never really that good at it, anyway...
I'm sorry it didn't work out.
Bobby!
You're leaving?
Yeah. I said a week, and I've overstayed myself...
You were going without saying goodbye?
I didn't want to say goodbye to anyone.
But what about me?
 I'll say goodbye to you, Tita.
Just once in a while, call and tell me where you are, please...
Watch the birdie!
Bye, now.
 Bye, Robert.
Come on.
 Wait a sec. I want Tita to take a picture of you an' me in front of the place...
No, let's go...
I never got the chance to thank you all for your hospitality. You tell Carl for me, if any of you folks wanta come on down to our place anytime, you'd be more'n welcome...
Thank you, that's very nice.
Bye bye, now.
"Your kiss is like a drink when I'm thirsty/An' I'm thirsty for you with all my heart..."
"But don't love me/Then act as though we've never kissed/Oh, don't touch me..."
"Don't touch me..."
"Don't touch me..."
"Don't touch me..."
"Oh, don't touch..."
Cut it out!
Son of a bitch, Bobby! You quit pushin' me away like that! I've had enough a that to last me a lifetime!
Whyn't you just try an' be good to me for a change!?
There id'n anyone gonna look after you an' love you better'n I do, you know that.
Baby? Did you hear me?
I'm gonna go in that cafe an' get some coffee. You want anything?
No.
You got any change?
Don't you just have 50 cents or somethin'?
Okay, be right back...
Sure you don't want anything?
 Fill it up.
 Hey, wait a minute.
Haven't you got a jacket or anything with you?
No, I don't, I uh... it got burned up. Everything in the car got the shit burned out of it. All I got left is what I have on...
I've got an extra jacket behind the seat, if you want to put it on.
No, it's okay.
Suit yourself. But I'll tell you, where we're headed is gonna get colder'n hell.
It's all right. I'm fine.
I'm all right.
I'm fine.
