 Don't pick up...don't pick up... don't pick up...
It's Nic, do you have any? Good morning to you too. You're what? Well, where are you guys shooting today? Where? Text me the address. You have some...Okay.
For the love of Christ! Look...just hold...HOLD ON.
 I've been up since the crack 'a dawn. What check? Tuition? How much does it cost to go there?
NO! NO! NO! You decided he needed private school...lemme talk to Knuckles. He's not? Tell'em the phone works both ways. Oh he's my son because you need a tuition check...that's great Deana. I'm glad you tracked me down in Orlando at 7 in the fucking morning to shake me down for money. Does he even like the fucking school? No I've never seen it. Yeah I wonder why not too. I gotta 9 o'clock flight, sit tight 'till I get back to Atlanta. How am I a liar? What? No, I'll call you.
Was that your wife?
That was my ex-wife. But you Trina, you could be my second or third wife if you'd just C'mere.
Whip, don't even joke about that. Our flight's at 9, let's hit it.
Yeah, I'm feelin' a little light- headed. I shoulda ate somethin'.
Son of a bitch!
Morning Miss Marquez.
Morning Captain Whitaker.
Captain Whitaker, that sky gonna hold? You're not gonna make me spend another night in Orlando?
Don't worry, Margaret I'm gonna get you home for your prayer meeting at...what is it? Jesus Christ Superstar 27th Baptist King Church?
That's right, Christ the King First Baptist Church on Hazel and 9th Street. And I'm still saving you a seat next to me. Offer stands...come on down.
One of these nights, Margaret, I'm comin'. You hold my seat.
G'morning. Walk around is complete.
Emergency oxygen, checks. (offering the mask to EVANS) You want a hit?
No thank you sir.
 My pleasure to share the chair with ya'. Didn't we fly together...
No sir, not that I remember. Ken Evans, sir.
Call me Whip.
Yes sir.
 Margaret.  Sweetie, will you get me a coffee, black, lots of sugar. And some aspirin. You want something?
 No ma'am. Thank you.  Sir, it's 8:50.
Then let's push. I got a great `on time' record.
Yes sir, you gottit. And how you feeling today, sir?
Tired, sir. But, this is a quick turn for me. Ten turns in three days. Off tomorrow.
Here's your coffee and the final manifest. 102 souls on board.
Thank you, thank you, thank you, you're a life saver. And Margaret gettem' tucked in, we're ready to push.
CUT! CUT THAT!
KIP-
Nicole, this is Tiki Pot. He's my partner in this new series, he knows a lot about porn.
Kip I need 2 grams of "h."
Tiki and I are trying to put the narrative back in porn. Our Desdemona hasn't shown yet.  You should play Desdemona. FUCK YEAH! You got that fair skin.
Desdemona? What the fuck?
She do anal, two thousand, one hour.
I don't do porn, Kip. Just lemme see the "h."
Just listen, we're doing an Othello theme where the Moor finds you in bed with your nurse and-
He fucks me in the ass?
Well...yeah. We're giving a whole new meaning to the "beast with two backs." That's actually a title we're toying with...'beast with two backs' or Hole-thelo or Butt Hole- thelo...would you be up for it?
College kid, very clean...BRETT?!
Show her the pipe-
Fuck you Tiki, you put that in your ass and call me in the morning. Kip, have I ever done that shit for you? Never. Asshole.
Nic...sorry, we're tweaked, okay baby girl. Hey, c'mon you wanna stay and shoot some stills for me, you're pics are awesome. And what's going on with you? You were clean for a while and...  Sweetheart, don't cry.
I just need a little to smoke.  I've got 100.
No, keep your money, okay? But, Nicole, this is the Taliban baby, very big time. It will take you down.
I can handle it.
Don't shoot this shit, it is way too heavy.
I'm just gonna smoke it. I haven't done needles in weeks.
Okay, no needles and take a little coke and if you start going down just whiff a little. Okay? I wanna see you...
Thanks junior.
Looks pretty ugly, sir.
A little rain never hurt anybody. We're not made of sugar. What's the RVR?
Half a mile. Right at minimums. Wind's gusting to 29. 30 is our crosswind max.
I know what our crosswind max is. Tellem were good to go at the end.
 SouthJet 227, say intentions.
Orlando ground. SouthJet 227 will be ready to go at the end.
Ladies and gentlemen, the captain has turned on the seat-belt sign. Please be sure your seat-belts are securely fastened, and all carry-on items are safely stored in the over- head bin, or under the seat in front of you. Also, all personal electronic devices must be switched off, at this time. Today's flight time to Atlanta should be 52 minutes. Flight attendants please take your seats.
 Elevator trim - set. Flaps, One, two, three - set. Radios - set.
 SouthJet 227, wind is one-zero-zero at seventeen. Runway 18L, cleared for take off.
 Cleared for take off, SouthJet 227.
It's like a video game, right?
Airspeed's alive, both sides... Engine instruments are in the green...100 knots crosscheck...
Yep, nothing like a little 30 knot cross wind to exercise that sphincter muscle.
That's wind shear! A micro burst!
Less than a thousand feet to go!
Just watch my airspeed!
V1...and...
...rotate.
That's wind shear for sure!
Yeehaw! Ride `em cowboy.
Orlando Departure...SouthJet 227, climbing out of 2500 for 5 thousand, runway heading.
 Roger SouthJet 227. Turn left heading one-seven-zero. Climb, maintain niner thousand.
Left to 170. Climb, maintain niner thousand.
I don't want the auto-pilot. I'm flying.
 What's your ride like, SouthJet 227?
Ah, Departure, we've got some rough chop here. I'd say moderate to...
 No, severe. Definitely severe turbulence. No meal service today.
 This happened last week, always bumpy outta Orlando. Right Cam?
Ladies and Gentlemen, the captain has asked that until we clear this air you stay seated with your seat belts fastened. Thank you.
 Feelin' alright - Not feelin' too good myself - Feelin' alright - Not feelin' too good myself...
 SouthJet 227...Be advised there is a large convective cell four miles at your 11 o'clock. And another cell, 2 o'clock, 10 miles. Both moving rapidly.
Copy, Center.  Did you get that?
Gottit Skippy. I'm just tryin' to get birdie here outta this wind bowl...What did they clear us to?
We're cleared to Flight Level one- eight-thousand.
Goddamnit! Enough of this shit!
What are you doing!?
Leveling off.
What!?
See that sliver of blue sitting between those two ugly bastards?
That's a little pocket of smooth air squatting right over Lake Kissimmee...
And we're gonna thread that fucking needle. Turn me thirty degrees right!
 Center. This is SouthJet 227, We need to divert 30 degrees right...
For weather.
 ...for weather.
SouthJet 227, this is Jacksonville Center. 30 Degrees, right, approved. Report back on course.
Report back on course.
Oh, Lord!
He can't help you now, brother.
Why are you leveling off, sir?
I'd like to spend less time in this shitty air, Kenny. Is that alright with you?
We're approaching maximum airspeed!
Fucking right! I'm gonna need some speed to punch through this crap.
You're over-speeding!
Not yet!!
 Uh, SouthJet 227, this is Jacksonville Center. Say altitude.
Tell `em we're climbing.
 Center...uh...SouthJet 227 is leaving niner thousand...for Flight Level 180.
 SouthJet 227, this is Center. You need to check your Mode-C. Your transponder indicates you're descending.
You're useless Evans, shit! 
 Roger.
 Look at your airspeed! You're too fast for this rough air!
I'm right on the line Kenny. Right on the line.
C'mon sweetheart, show me the sun.
Finally, daylight.
Glad that's over.
How tall are we?
16 thousand. That was incredible sir...
Ken, turn us north and take us home. Your plane.
My plane.
 Margaret, I'm coming out.
Where you been Nicole?
Fuck! Fran...get out.
You're like a little ghost. I never know when you're here.
Get the fuck out Fran!
As the building manager I have a legal right to enter an apartment if I believe the occupant is unwell. Especially if said occupant is not current on her rent.
Fran, please just gimme a minute. Get out. I have the rent. I will bring it down to you. Just let me shower.
You could just bring the check down now, use my shower. I got good water pressure. You know that...
You're in the perfect light Fran.  Back up a little...little more.
Tricky tricky, girl. Alright, so you shower up and come down. For real. We don't gotta talk about the check. Hang out a lil bit...
 In your fucking dreams.
Folks, this is Captain Whitaker. If you look up, I'm here in the galley. I will wave to you.
Good Morning. I apologize for the bumps, but Florida just doesn't seem to like us Georgians. Must be the beatin' the Bulldogs put on the Gators last fall.
Stretch out and relax. The air might stay a little cranky so I'm gonna ask that you sit tight if you can, with your seat belts fastened.
We won't have beverage service but the girls will walk through with water and snacks and I'll have you in Atlanta in about 40 minutes. Thank you.
Oh man...
Oh no, oh no, oh no...
Open up, Nicole! I can smell that shit cooking! Open Up! Nicole. Nicole!
How long has Sleeping Beauty been out?
 26 minutes. We're going to start descending any second now.
Well, I guess you'll need to wake...
SouthJet 227, Atlanta Center. Descend and maintain Flight Level 30 thousand.
Descend and maintain 30 thousand.
The fuck was that?
The stabilizer feels really stiff.
Don't force it.
 That came from the back!
I have very little trim control sir.
Margaret, get everybody strapped in tight.
It's pulling right. Hard!
Shit! It's locked up, ease up on the trim don't...
 I have no trim at all!
We lost our hydraulics!
Center, this is SouthJet 227, we've lost our hydraulics...and, ah shit!  Power. Pull back the power!
 ...we lost hydraulics and looks like...also our horizontal stabilizer.
SouthJet 227, Atlanta Center. Understand you've lost hydraulics and stabilizer?
 Turn on the back-up pumps!
 Center, that's affirm. We are in a descent, an uncontrolled... WHOOOAAAAA!!!!
SouthJet 227, do you wish to declare an emergency!?
Everyone's belted in. Are we going down?
Get belted in, everyone belt in. Brace position!
I've got some control on my side! My plane!
Your plane.
It's stiff as hell. We're pitching up. Slowing a bit.
SouthJet 227, say your condition.
We need drag. Throw out everything we've got. Speed brakes. Gear...  Uh, Center we're in a dive...lost vertical control.
SouthJet 227, Roger.
 ...there enough hydraulics to drop the gear?
Gear's down. I don't think hydraulics is the problem.
Throw out the flaps.
Too fast for flaps.
We need to start dumping fuel.
Do it!
 SouthJet 227, Atlanta Center. How do you hear?
 Atlanta. This is SouthJet 227. We are in an uncontrolled dive, descending out of...shit I don't know...
 21 thousand!
 ...21 thousand. We are declaring an emergency! We are dumping fuel! We have a jammed stabilizer...or something. We need a block of altitude to work the problem...and a heading to the nearest airport!  I'm starting to lose it!
SouthJet 227. Hartsfield-Jackson International is 10 O'clock and 20 miles from your present position. Maintain block altitude, Flight Level 10 thousand through Flight Level 20 thousand. Turn left heading 260.
 260...we'll do our best.  It's getting away from me! I can't hold...dump the flaps!
We're still fast.
DO IT! 30 percent!
That bought us a little time. We need to revert to manual control. Your side first, pul...
 SouthJet 227, Atlanta. Fuel dump is approved.
 Thank you.
Evans, look at me! Manual Reversion. Red lever, on the floor, far side of the console.
I got it.
Pull it up, turn it clockwise, push it back down.
Nothing! No control!
Goddamn it!!
I can't let go! Can you reach mine?
I can't reach it.
No! Don't! Stay strapped in!  Margaret! Margaret!
Oh God, Whip. What's happening?!
Get strapped into the jump-seat. I need your help.
Margaret, see that red lever on the floor next to my chair? The one that says, Manual Control?
Yes.
On the count of three you pull it up, turn it clockwise, then push it back down. OK? You ready?
Here we go. One, two...
...three!
Ok. OK. We got something. It's still stiff as hell. Evans, put in some power!
I don't know. It feels like the son of a bitch wants to nose over.
SHIT! POWER BACK!  I CAN'T FUCKING BELIEVE THIS!
OH NO!
SouthJet 227, Hartsfield-Jackson is eleven o'clock and niner miles. I see you below 10,000. How are you doing?
 Not good. You got anything closer? We're in a rapid dive here...
Roger, SouthJet 227. Uh...Clayton County is 2 miles at your 4 o'clock.
Negative. We're too high...we can't pitch for glide. We have no stabilizer control.
Copy, SouthJet 227.
Oh Lord, we're descending at 4,700 feet per minute, out of 7,000. I SEE NOTHING BUT HOUSES!
OK! Here's what we're going to do!  When I say, you retract the gear, retract the flaps and trim both ailerons. But every things gonna be opposite, so be sure to trim down. Margaret...
Trim down?! What are you gonna do?!
When I ask for power, push both of these forward. Got it?  What's your son's name?
Trevor.
Say "I love you Trevor."
You mean trim up?! Right? You want me to trim up?
Why?
The black box.
I love you Trevor. Be a good boy. Mommy loves you.
What are we doing?! Why would I trim down?!
We're gonna roll it. Ready? Here we go. I've got control.
 WHAT! WHAT DO YOU MEAN, ROLL IT?!!
Just a little barrel roll. Don't panic. Relax. Let it roll.
EVANS, FLAPS!
FLAPS UP!
MARGARET FULL POWER! EVANS, TRIM US! GEAR UP!
I CAN'T REACH THE GEAR!
Margaret! Can you reach it?
WHAT'S OUR ALTITUDE?
3,000...I think.
Let it roll. I got it!
 Jesus Christ! What the Fuck!?
Oh Lord Jesus! We're inverted!
We're level. We can maintain altitude like this.
SouthJet 227, Atlanta Center. I see your position 4 and a half miles southeast of the airport. Descending out of 1,800. Are you OK?
Uh, Atlanta...we're inverted.
Uh, SouthJet 227...say again sir. Did you say inverted?
WE'RE LOSING OIL PRESSURE! PUMP FAILURE. BOTH ENGINES!
We're flying!
FIRE IN THE LEFT ENGINE!
PUT IT OUT!
 HOW FAR'S THE AIRPORT!?
227, three miles, and one o'clock.
 We're not gonna make that!
 There's a field and a road ah...we're gonna put it down in that field.
Roger, SouthJet 227.
WE'RE LOSING THE LEFT ENGINE!
WE'RE COMING BACK OVER! EVANS, WHEN I START THE ROLL, THROW EVERYTHING BACK OUT!
FIRE IN THE RIGHT!
 WHAT'S MY ALTITUDE!?
 Eight hundred, descending...
WE LOST THE LEFT ENGINE!
We have enough speed to fly!
WE'RE LOSING POWER IN THE RIGHT!
HERE WE GO!
FLAPS FULL! GEAR DOWN!
SouthJet 227, altitude 500 indicated, descending. Do you concur?
MARGARET, POWER!!!!
WE LOST ALL POWER!
 Are we gliding?
WE'RE IN A GLIDE! PITCH FOR GLIDE!
Oh God.
TRIM IT!
PITCH FOR GLIDE!
BRACE! BRACE FOR IMPAC...
Charlie Anderson.
How you feelin' Whip? Initial reports look like you pulled some move up there, kid. You saved a lot of lives.
How many?
102 souls on board including the flight crew, and 96 of them survived the crash. Six people died. 2 crew, 4 passengers.
4 passengers. Are the rest badly hurt? Who'd we lose on the crew?
Listen, protocol is the NTSB has to make the first contact with you and the agent is here. Let me go get him.
I'm Doctor Kenan and the good news is that you are in good condition. You did suffer a concussion which is the reason you have a bit of blurred vision and a headache. You have numerous lacerations around your left eye. We're going to leave the patch on for a few days as a precaution. But it seems your eye is OK. MRI's show strained tendons in your left knee and ankle but you didn't break any bones.
I remember everything until the crash.
Who on the crew died?
I knew Trina Marquez. We spent some time together.
Apparently she wasn't strapped in. A survivor reported that she was assisting a kid.
How's Margaret Thomason?
 Broken collar bone, cuts, banged up, but she's okay. She's here too. Ken Evans your copilot took a bad shot to the head. They're keepin' him in a coma to let the brain swelling go down. He's listed as critical, but we feel good about him. He's gonna be okay.
Charlie, why are you here?
I'm flying a desk now. I'm a regional rep for the IAP.
You're the rep for the pilots' union?
I'm one of a few union reps for the southeast. When your plane went down all the reps got a page and since I know you I shot my hand up and said I wanted to come and be the first face you'd see.
I'm glad it's you.
It's good to see you too, Cowboy. You're gonna be okay. We're gonna take care of you. That's my job.
The union will put out a statement on your behalf. Condolences to the families who lost loved ones and gratitude to the brave men and women on the flight crew.  And I know you and Deana have been divorced for a while but maybe she and your son...?
Yeah, Knuckles.
Yeah, how old's he now?
Wow, you weren't even married when we flew for Delta. We're dinosaurs, Whip. Do you want me to reach out to Deana and see if she and Will want to come? Any family you want here, we'll get them here, stat.
No, I'll call her.
Speaking of which, I have your phone and some of your personal effects from the plane.
Your clothes are toast. Do you need me to get you some stuff?
No, I'm okay. I'll take care of it.
I'm gonna head out, let you get some rest. I'm coming back. You'll see plenty of me.
Thanks Charlie, I really...  It means a lot to me that you came.
Okay. Get some rest now.
Charlie, that plane was fucked.
I know. The way you landed that plane was nothing short of a miracle.
Harling...Harling...yeah, it's Whip. I'm in a hospital in South Atlanta...what? You know where I am? Okay well fuck...yeah, I'm okay. What? Well, I'm looking to get outta here...hopefully tomorrow. Yeah. But, listen, I need you to bring me something to wear.
Goddamn it...
I'm on the list baby girl. Check the list for Mr. Mays. Harling.
If this is gonna turn into a sponge bath, I'll come back.
SIR-
It's okay, Harling.
That's right honey, I'm on the list. Harling Mays. Some say they Harling knew me.
Honey can you hustle us a couple of daiquiris and a cocktail weenie? On second thought just bring the booze. I brought my own weenie.
She's offended, and she should be. I'm a pig. And I hate me. That's what we have in common Nurse Ratched...we both hate me.
Whip? What the fuck my man? They're sayin', "Sweet Jesus, what a fuckin' stud that pilot is." You're a hero, no shit. You will never pay for another drink in this life time. There is crazy news people all over, look at this shit--
Classic hero worship, you're a rock star man. You gotta see the video I've got -- I'm making a doc about you, well us, y'know?
This is outside your condo...
Look that's me, and that`s Mark Mellon...you know that douchey talking haircut from local Atlanta channel 3? I said a few words. Just straight talk, y'know?
You okay Captain Whitaker? Easy...
The meds they're giving me are fucking me up -- I'm all shaky and dried out. I can't sleep good.
Aprazolam? That's generic Xanax and this Hydrocodone is generic Vicodin. It's shit, prolly Canadian.
We want the premium stuff. Blue label...not the fucking well shit. Where's the dihydromorphinone?
 YO! ROOM SERVICE!
Listen Harling, leave it alone.  So you got my message and decided not to call me back? Did you bring me smokes?
I decided to come by instead. And yes I got your fucking message and yes I brought you smokes.
Here is a fresh carton, enjoy. You fucking earned it -- you smoke your nuts off, champion. If I were you I'd fire up right here in the God damn room. Fuck'em, you're immortal, you're a fucking God man.
Harling...
Sorry Whip. It's just...this is big time, man. You're a hero in a time when we really need heroes.
Shut the fuck up, Harling...Six people died.
96 people lived! When are you gonna take yes for an answer? Pick up the phone, man. Fuck.
Here's a pint of Smirnoff and a few Red Bulls. You know what I'm sayin'? I know my customer.
Harling, take the vodka with you.
What?! Take the vodka? Dude, are you insane? I'm gonna just tuck it in the bottom of your-
Take the fucking vodka!
Okay man. Check it out.
Look, I'm tired man.
I'm out. You rest up.
You gotta come and get me, tomorrow.
Here are my keys. Go to the condo and bring me some nice clothes I can wear, my phone charger and grab the veal outta my fridge. It's marked.
The veal?
Yeah, the veal that's in my freezer.
Done and done. What time you need me here?
Tomorrow. I'll call you.
Send the mayday and you're outta here in 7 minutes.  I got you a few stroke mags too. I've been in hospitals. I know what you need. JUGS, HOT MILFS in heat. ASSMASTERS. You should just stroke it all day. You're a hero -- know what I'm saying? If I was in here I'd be jerkin' it all day long. See, there's a smile.
Thank you.
I didn't think anyone would have the same devious thought about using the fire stairs to have a smoke...
Don't go. I'll be quiet.
We don't have to talk. Be nice to just smoke with someone.
Were you on the plane?
Yeah, I was. Were you?
Where were you sitting?
Up near the front.
Tobacco's but an Indian weed, Grows green in the morn, cut down at eve; It shows our decay, We are but clay;...I love the smell of Nicotina in the morning. Smells like...victory.
Don't flee dear comrades! Really, wait for me, please.
He was.
Yeah, I'm lucky. Goin' home tomorrow.
You're living here?
What kind of cancer?
God chose you? You believe in God?
Nicole.
Not much. I was a photographer and then I was a masseuse and I wash hair at a salon sometimes.
I don't know her.
Here's a pack.
Chemo brain. Chemo makes you pretty foggy.
Yeah?
They call it chemo brain, my mom used to slur her words and get all chatty.
Your mom had cancer.
Breast cancer, she was only 54.
But why'd that guy ask you if you were gonna die?
I dunno. I flat-lined twice in the ambulance. Heroin addicts who use needles tend to die. Especially women for some reason.
Is that right?
I have a pamphlet to prove it. A girl from AA just came to see me --  That guy was a trip. He made it feel like, I dunno...we were the last people left on the planet..  ...and together we should save the world.
Well, where should we live? If we're gonna save the world, where should we do that?
What?
You don't want me.
What?
You don't want me either.
Where do you live?
Why you wanna come visit? It's luxurious.  I live in Bankhead, it's south Atlanta, near the bus station.
The luxurious bus station?
Yeah.
I'll come visit you.
You're sweet.
I will. What's your address?
I live at the Georgian Gardens on Taylor street.
Georgian Gardens?
Yeah.
How long are you staying here?
Trying to stay as long as I can but I don't have insurance to cover rehab. I'll prolly be out tomorrow.
Oh. Okay. And you're a masseuse?
Yeah.
What kind of masseuse?
I've been every kind of masseuse there is.
Good luck Nicole.
You too.
Thanks Mike.
Yeah, thanks Mike.  Here's 20 American.
Thanks. Good luck, sir.
This is how they get the Stones out of Madison Square Garden, man. 4 smoked black limos fly outta the VIP driveway and the fans jump on the limos...mayhem. Those limos? Empty. Meanwhile, Mick and the boys go out the service exit into delivery vans -- casual, rock star type shit.
I couldn't find any suitcases so I just put your shit in grocery bags.
So you're stayin' with me down on University, right? It's nice. A lotta young people...good vibe.
No. I'm gonna go to the farm.
The fucking farm?
My dad's place. I can't stay at my condo.
I thought you sold that fucking place.
Not yet.
I'm not sure I wanna stay at the farm.
You're not. Just take me to the airport to get my car.
58 Veal? Really? Don't you know the 58 first place every two-bit thief looks is in the freezer?
You have 127 messages.  Message one..."Captain Whitaker, this is Jim Court I'm with CNN. We'd like to schedule an interview..."  Message two..."This is NBC affiliate KGAT in Athens we're looking to contact William J. Whitaker for..."  Message three..."Captain Whitaker, this is Karen James, media relations with the pilots' union..."
You've reached the Whitaker Crop Dusting Company, flying lessons and plane rides. Please leave a message and it will be returned. Thank you.
...I think that was the beep. Hey Cowboy, it's Charlie again.
 I'm back in town and I stopped by the hospital tonight but they said you went home...so I guess you're feelin' pretty good, but um we went out to your condo and the manager said you had not returned.
So...you may be with relatives, which I understand. I was really hoping to see you for breakfast. I'm at the St. Regis downtown.
Whip, hey buddy. Glad you got my message. Grab a seat.
Whip this is Hugh Lang; he's an attorney from Chicago.
Nice to meet you Captain Whitaker.
Siddown. Coffee?  Miss, can we get some fresh coffee?
We were just talking about your copilot's wife. She told a newspaper that "God landed that plane."
God landed the plane?
I too believe that God landed that plane. The same way I believe that God should hit the buffet, the turkey sausage is excellent.
I'm good with coffee.
Len Caldwell was really trying to get here this morning.  Len is the president of the pilots' union and he wanted to be here with us and meet with you but they wanted him at the crash site. So..
Whip, as you know, when a plane crashes, the NTSB sends a "go team" to the crash site immediately.
They find the flight data recorders?
Yes they found them, perfectly intact.
Great. That solves everything. The recorders will tell the story. Why do we need a lawyer from Chicago?
Hugh's an attorney who specializes in criminal negligence-
Criminal negligence?
Death demands responsibility. Six dead on that plane, someone has to pay.
The plane fell apart at 30 thousand feet.
The airline will try to prove equipment failure. Which would make the manufacturer responsible. The manufacturer of the plane will try to prove poor maintenance of the equipment by the airline.
Or pilot error.
I had to fly that plane inverted, that means upside down, Hugh. Do you get the picture? 100 passengers hanging upside down, 500 feet off the ground. Do you have any idea what that sounds like?
I do. I heard the black box last night.
Are you a pilot?
No I'm not.
Then you don't know what the fuck you're talking about.
Hugh's on our team and it's the NTSB's ball game. They run the investigation and they will ultimately rule on the cause.
They interview the entire flight crew and the passengers. They hold PUBLIC HEARINGS-
Charlie, what do I need to know? I'm already tired of this guy.
The NTSB `go team' collects blood, skin and hair from the flight crew for a toxicology report.
When did they do that?
In the hospital. It's the first thing they do. Do you remember having your blood drawn on the night of the crash?
Do they have the results of these blood tests?
Yeah, they do.
Anything else for you gentlemen?
Did I just see warm cinnamon rolls come out?
Yes sir.
Bring me one wouldya? Actually bring me two, okay sweetie?
Comin' up.
An initial report shows alcohol in your bloodstream at a level of .24. In the U.S.
What does that mean? I had a beer the night before I flew. And what...That made the tail of the plane explode?
Separate issues Whip-
I need a lawyer.
Hugh is your lawyer.
I need a bigger lawyer. A lawyer who understands that I flew a broken plane and without me at that stick there'd be 102 funerals, not
We're talking about prison not funerals. Somebody has-
To write checks, well it's not me I promise you that. And as long as they're writing checks, write me one because someone put me in a broken plane. I'd love a check.
EASY WHIP-
This tox report states that you were drunk and high on cocaine, felonies punishable by 24 years in jail. And if your intoxication is proven to have caused the death of the 4 passengers you'll get 4 counts of manslaughter. That could be life in prison.
He'll get it done, Whip. It's what his entire life is about. Trust me, trust him.  Don't worry Whip, you're gonna walk away the hero you deserve to be.
I'm not worried, Charlie. I promise you that. No one could have landed that plane like I did, no one.
Captain Tilmon, we wanna play a portion of the black box that all of the news outlets have grabbed hold of...
 When I ask for power, push both of these forward. Got it? What's your son's name?
What'll you have?
Can I get an orange juice?
Trevor.
Say "I love you Trevor."
Why?
The black box.
I love you Trevor. Be a good boy. Mommy loves you.
That's it?
And a double shot of Stoli.
 Wow. That audio paints a strong picture. Captain Whitaker is surely a hero in my opinion.
 Absolutely. However, every incident is different. The actions of the pilots on SouthJet 227 will be heavily scrutinized. It's protocol for any investigation.
We were in a nose dive and people were screaming and yelling and then the plane turned upside down and we had to hold on to our seat belts to keep from falling out of our chairs -- I saw one kid fall to the floor and this flight attendant picked him up and handed him to his dad...I didn't see her again.
We turned like a corkscrew and all I could think was, "this is really happening, I'm going to die" and then all of a sudden the plane was upside down but steady and the pilot must have known how to fly it that way. He flipped it back over and landed it hard.
I thought it was thunder at first. But it shook the ground hard. Thunder don't do like that. I ran outside and I could hear people yelling and I could see a small fire at first. I just took the dogs and headed down there. Then I saw the plane crumpled on the ground. I never seen nothing like that in my life.
 Taylor street, Taylor st...ah, here we are.
The guy in Unit 1 just told me you stayed here last night?!
Franny relax, I'm just getting my shit outta here, okay?
What about the rent! YOU OWE ME MONEY!
Who do you think broke down this fucking door to let the paramedics in there? Huh?! -- You gotta pay for all this.
I'm sorry. Just let me get my shit and get outta here. I will pay you when I can.
I know, just take a shower with me. How hard is that? C'mon.
No. I'm not doin' that.
If I had a bag a dope you'd be on your knees in my shower right now, right? Come on...
DON'T TOUCH ME!
Gimme the camera, for collateral. What's it worth?
No fucking way! I will kill you if you touch this camera! I will pay for all of this! I will pay, okay!
The fuck are you doin'!?
 Hey, don't I know you?
Keep your fucking hands off her!
You okay?  Is this all the stuff you want from here?
 Just this stuff.
Okay, start taking that stuff down.
She owes me 1100 bucks! Plus damages!
You wanna spend a thousand bucks suing her and get jack shit? Or do you want to make a cash deal with me?
Give me 700 in cash.
You're a creep...with your baseball bat bullshit...
 I'll give you 400 in cash.
Good boy. Now help her get that box in her car.
Ah...my car doesn't run. It won't start. I'm taking this with me.
Your car doesn't run? What were you gonna do?
I don't...I...I was... I don't know what I was gonna do.
 Then put the fucking box in my car.
What's your name?
Whip.
Thank you, Captain Whip.
You okay?
I was gonna lay down, get some rest.
Okay.
Is it really okay that I stay here?
Yea. I want you to stay.
That feels better.
It's throbbing because the blood is having a hard time getting back to your heart.
Do you wanna shoot me or can I come inside?
C'mon in. I'll shoot you inside.
You just decided to drop by?
Your voice mail is full and you never answer your cell phone. I called your cell 10 times.
I turned it off.
I thought we'd take a ride.
Okay, gimme a minute. Wait here.
You can see the initial impact sheared the right wing clean off. If only the left wing had come off at impact, I think everyone would have walked off that plane.
The left wing partially pulled away-
It snapped but stayed connected to the airframe. So it whipped back towards the plane, hit the fuselage in front of the tail. If you were sitting in the last 6 or 7 rows on the left side, it was like being hit by a train.
I drank a lot the night before that flight. I drank that morning too and I used coke to straighten up.
I know, it's in the toxicology report.
But that's not the reason this happened.
I know.
The John the Baptist Pentecostal Mission.
"He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more, neither shall there be mourning, nor crying, nor pain anymore, for the former things have passed away." -- Revelation 21:4
They helped pull survivors out of the wreckage. Now they come out here every day and have a mass 30 minutes prior to the crash. And then they sit in silent prayer for 10 minutes at 9:42...which is when you went down.
Ellen Block, she's the head of the investigation for the NTSB. She's the one that's gonna ask the tough questions.
Why'd you bring me here?
I needed you to see this.
You trying to scare me?
I need to know that you can handle all this.
Listen clearly. There was a mechanical issue with the plane, but what you and I know? Is that this was an act of God. I'm gonna fight to get the NTSB to place "act of God" on the probable causes list.
Who's God would do this?
So here's the deal. Avington Carr, the owner of the airline, is on our side...and he's got big friends in Washington. He wants to sit down with us. 10 O'clock tomorrow morning.
You can't drink. You're under the microscope. You can't be out buying liquor. No bars, no drugs.
I'll stop. I can stop.  I told you I can stop. I won't drink.
10 O'clock tomorrow morning with Mr. Carr, the owner of the airline.
I never wanted that fuckin' airline. Neither did my brother.
It was my father that wanted it. I like baseball.
I like baseball.
Everyone in Georgia likes baseball.
Yeah...so what's the deal Lenny? Is your union gonna survive this one? More importantly? How big a check you think I'm gonna have to write?
There were 6 fatalities on the PLANE-
The 2 crew members don't get settlements like the passengers. That's a workman's comp claim, part of the union contract -- they do a dangerous job and they know it.
You're the lawyer for the pilots' union?
No, this is Hugh Lang, the attorney we brought in to handle the criminal side of Captain Whitaker's situation.
Yes, and what is Mr. Whitaker's situation? NTSB is up my ass with a flashlight. We had to give them access to everything.
I flew with him. He's a great pilot.
Is he a drunk?
He's a heavy drinker. Should I bring him in?
In a minute. Alright, so let's get down to it, Lenny. What does the union plan to do about this blood test that says Whitaker was high on booze and coke? This guy's a real peach.
I'm gonna kill the toxicology report.  It was done incompetently. The last time the toxicology equipment they used was calibrated was in June of 2009, which is 18 months past code. Their log that should clearly state who labeled the blood vials and when, is very incomplete. And they aren't sure who stored them. They used a preservative in the vials that has in some cases caused blood to ferment and register higher in an alcohol test. That's what I've done so far. I can handle this.
I like this guy Lenny. He makes me wanna go out and sniff a few lines and fly a jet.
Mr. Carr, we're gonna fight to push all the fault on Jackson Ridgefield, the manufacturer.
Oh and you think they're gonna just open their check book and buy us all lunch? Good fucking luck. What's my exposure Jim?
Fuck the airline. The insurance companies can have the goddamm airline. I just don't want them to come sniffing in my other pockets.
Speaking for the pilots' union? We don't want your airline to go away. We enjoy your contract with us and we will protect Captain Whitaker and in turn protect your airline.
That's sweet Mr. Caldwell, but if the NTSB leaks that toxicology report showing my pilot was flying that plane drunk? We're all fucked.
So far we've been lucky.
Lucky?! Are you that goddammed dumb?! You think they're waiting for a light news day to splash the headline, "Drunk, coke-addled pilot crashes a plane?!"
My brother's in DC on his knees at the foot of the throne begging for forgiveness. And so far it's working.
Trust me, I'm gonna kill the toxicology report. That's my job.
I wish you luck, but we're still sorting out the best way to go forward legally. We might split from you and go it alone.
To go it alone? Without us? That would be what the French call "a big fucking mistake."
Does Whitaker know he's going to jail?
I haven't had a client go to jail yet.
He's going to jail. He belongs in jail. You bet your ass he's going to jail, the question is...is he gonna die in jail?
You're wrong, Mr. Carr.
Last time I checked, 6 counts of manslaughter is life in prison.
Life in prison, what we in Georgia call "all day long."
They tell me you're some kind of pilot.
Get up! What? You can't get up?!  C'mon, Knuckles Whitaker drags himself up and goes long...go.
Touchdown Whitaker! Atta boy! C'mon back. What? Come back and do it again. Tired? Junior, you don't know tired. I'm not going out. You go out. Keep running.
Keep coming back, Nicole. One day at a time.
I know, one day at a time.
Hey. Sorry I'm a little late, but we went for coffee after the meeting...  Whip?
Don't, don't, don't! I'll get him. Knuckles, junior. See him. Yeah. I'm not calling again. Fuck him. He didn't call. Not back. Not calling back.
Morning.
Are you okay? You were in bad shape when I got home.
Tired. Guess I drank a bit.
A bit?
You wanna count the fuckin' beers? They're still in the garbage. Vodka too, is that okay with you?
It's more than okay, Whip.
Good.
I've been watching the sky change as the sun rises. Beautiful.  Perfect light, I went out and took some great shots.
Lemme see that camera.
My mom got it for me. Towards the end, when she knew she wasn't gonna recover. She maxed out her credit card to buy me that camera and a lighting kit.
It's just so beautiful here. Did you grow up here?
It was my grandfather's farm, my dad grew up here. He was a pilot in World War II, flew with the 332nd. See the landing strip out there? He built that. He ran a crop duster outta here until the EPA put an end to that.  He traded the crop duster for a used Cessna. He flew that damn thing all over. It's still in the barn. I was gonna sell this place after my dad died. Then I got divorced...
And your mom?
Dead...she's dead. Your dad still alive?
I'm pretty sure my father lives in Colorado.
You got no relationship with him.
He drank. It was my mom that raised me. She was incredible.
She held it together for so long, I couldn't tell how sick she was. Even through chemo she looked beautiful.
They gave her very heavy meds for pain. Dilauded, morphine, oxycontin. I started taking them with her. We would get all medicated and sit in our back yard and talk and talk and watch the sun go down. We'd be so stoned that we couldn't get up to go inside when it got dark.  I know it sounds crazy to get hooked on dope with your mom, but she was dying and we spent her last seven months together like teenagers, trading stories about boys and whatever. She loved me.
I'm Trevor. You saved my mom.
It's great to see you, Whip.
You too Margaret. Broken collar bone?
Yeah, and some stitches but I'm fine. I really am.  It was a nice service. I mean, look at all these people that wanted to say goodbye. She looked beautiful in there.  Didn't you think so, Whip? Like she was gonna wake up and smile.
I didn't go in. I couldn't.
Trevor, find Dad. He's by Mr. Benton, there.  Are you okay? You should come to the counseling group. The union has great people for us to talk to.
No. I can't, really. I will, but just not now.
Take care Whip, okay?
Yeah...y'know...I'm in the middle of this investigation. The NTSB is investigating the crash-
I know. I'm going in to see them next week.
I'm nervous because I was out the night before the crash at dinner-
With Trina...
Yeah and I had two glasses of wine. And they might ask you about my condition that morning and if you thought I had anything to drink.
What?
I've known you 11 years and you're gonna stand here and tell me you and Trina went to dinner and you drank two glasses of wine? Sounds like a nice restaurant Whip, which one was it?
You have to tell them it was an ordinary day. I mean it was an ordinary day. You know I was in shape to fly. You have a problem with saying that?
It's a lie. Whip, it's a lie. Trina told me you two hadn't been to sleep.
My lack of sleep made the plane fall apart, huh Margaret? I'm just trying to get it straight. You think that another pilot would have been able to land that plane and save more lives?
I didn't say that Whip. I can't imagine another pilot doing-
Well can you imagine Trevor at this same church looking at you in that box in there? Or my son having to come and see me in prison?
Please Whip, enough. Don't you think we've all had enough.  What do you want me to say?
It was an ordinary day. The storm right after we took off was very severe, but as far as the flight crew was concerned it was a perfectly ordinary day.
Are you okay? How was it?
It was okay, okay. How're you doin'?
Well, I got through my first day. They haven't fired me.
That's good. Cause for a celebration.
They needed someone to work the night shift. They asked me and it's time and a half so...
I gotta vest and here's my name tag. Oh oh oh....I got you something..  It's a P-51 mustang on there... (flies her arms like WINGS) You're dad flew a P-51, right?
 He did. So should we get some dinner?
I promised Sheila I would be at the meeting tonight. She's the one that's been helping me, my sponsor. Can we do it tomorrow night? And Please, Whip don't make me choose between dinner with you and the meeting.
No, it's okay. You should go.
Why don't you come with me? We'll eat after. It's an open meeting.
Open meeting?
That means anybody can come. Anybody.
Even me?
 Hi Barry.
I gotta go. Okay?  Can uh... 
Yeah, Sheila. She can take me back to work.
 I'm Sheila.
The NTSB is focusing their investigation on the flight crew, specifically Captain Whitaker.
Sir, I am not at liberty to discuss Captain Whitaker or any of the flight crew.
 And in truth, I don't have much to say about him.
 So, safe to say that he remains a mystery.
 Sir, those are your words not mine.
 I've been speaking to some people who are very close to the NTSB investigation and they are very confident that they will be able to determine exactly what brought this plane down.
 I'm sure they will sir.
 Thank you, Ken and Vicki Evans.
 Thank you, and God bless.
How're you feeling, Ken?
Happy to be alive.
Blessed to be alive.
I'm Captain Whitaker, I was flying-
I know who you are.
Ma'am can you give us some privacy? Thank you.  Come on in sir. Shut the door.
Listen, how long have you been...
Outta the coma? Two days.
I didn't mean to disrupt your whole day. I know they been swamping you with interviews. You were great on CNN...
Both my legs were crushed and my pelvis snapped. I'll probably never walk again, least not without a walker or braces. I'll certainly never fly again.
I'm sorry Ken.
That plane was doomed the second you sat in the chair. You reeked like gin or somethin'. I called Vicki from the plane before we took off. That's when the rain kicked up.
I don't know how much you remember, but the plane started to fall apart.
I remember everything until we crashed. I know what went on.
What are we talking about?
I don't know Captain Whitaker, what are we talking about?
I just wanted to get a sense from you what you thought caused the crash.
Was it the fact that you got on the plane drunk from the night before?
The NTSB is coming back tomorrow to finish taking a deposition from me about the events on the flight.
You think you'd be alive without me on that plane?
No, we'd all be dead. But are you gonna argue that your physical state was tip top?
I'm not gonna argue anything with you.
Sit, please sit.  I never shared my opinion about your physical state the morning of the flight. I've never said word.
The flight was pre-ordained. I've prayed on it Captain. Vicki and I have prayed on it. There's only one judge --
Praise Jesus.
And he has a higher plan for you sir. This event although tragic in its loss of life is also a celebration of life.
Nothing happens in the Kingdom of the Lord by mistake.
Praise Jesus.
Captain, will you pray with me?
Jesus our Lord and savior we thank you for blessing Captain Whitaker with courage and wisdom. For guiding his hand on that fateful morning. In his divine light we were saved. Praise Jesus.
Praise Jesus.
Praise Jesus.
Thanks for the ride guys. I'll see you tomorrow.
Keep it up Nicole, you could be employee of the year.
Looks great right?
It's kind of...beautiful.
It's a Cessna 172, it was my dad's. He kept it perfect.
Does it work...
Yeah, he flew this plane a few months before he died. I learned to fly in this plane. You can land it anywhere.
My friend Harling and I flew it to Jamaica.
Jamaica? In this?
We set off for an overnight fishing trip two hours south of here. We ended up in Bethel, Jamaica.
You're insane.
It was like a picture on a post card. The white sand and sky blue water. Most beautiful place I've ever been.
Was the water warm?
Yeah, really warm.
That's my kind of place.
Let's go.
Sure, why not.
Let's go tomorrow.
You're serious?
We'll leave in the morning...we'll just go. Start over.
Whip, we can't.
It's a beautiful beach, it's paradise.
I'm worried about you.
 I'm fine thanks.
No you're not, you're really not. You need help, Whip. I think you need rehab.
You go to a couple of AA meetings and all of a sudden you think you're Jesus Christ? Worry about yourself.
We're the same Whip, you and me, we're the same-
WE'RE NOT-
WE ARE-
I didn't suck dick to get high. And don't give me a whole...
Never Whip, I never in my life-
Your mom died and dad drank and bullshit, bullshit, bullshit --
Stop. Please stop.
Is that why you shot dope?
That's not fair-
Well there's a lot of people out there who lost their mom who've never had a drink in their life.
You're sick, Whip.
I choose to drink.
Do you? You choose it? I don't see a lot of choice goin' on.
I choose to drink! And I blame it on me. I'm happy to. I've got an ex-wife and a son I don't see. Why? Because I choose to drink!
Alright look, I was loaded when I crashed that plane. With this investigation going on, I don't know what's gonna happen. Come to Jamaica with me.
Whip. I'm afraid I'll use again.
Come with me. I need help, I do.
I'd love for you to get help, Whip.
When we get to Jamaica we can go to the local hospital. I'll do it for you. Anything you want.
I don't wanna use again. I can't. I won't make it back.
I'll be sober. I won't force you to stay. I promise if you don't like it or if I don't clean up? You can leave.
It's so beautiful there. We'll leave before noon. I'm a great pilot. You'll get to see so much.
You've reached the Whitaker Crop Dusting Company, flying lessons and plane rides. Please leave a message and it will be returned. Thank you.
 Hey Whip, if you're there pickup...I got some good news...
Yeah, I'm here. What's goin' on?
Here's our guy. C'mon.
Captain Whitaker, we've won.
This is what we call in my profession a "walk over."
They've scheduled the hearing. It's in 10 days.
But these hearings can be tough. You just need to stay sharp and on course and answer the questions correctly. It's no longer a question of your condition but the condition of the plane.
I've had an "Act of God" successfully added to the list of probable causes.
Look, it's simple. I flew a broken plane.
You got it. That's right.
And what about my toxicology report?
 I killed it. They have no physical proof that you were intoxicated on that plane. And no eye witness claims. But there's a problem.
Because of the turbulence at the beginning of the flight and then the crash, there was never any drink service on the flight. But, they found two little vodka bottles in the galley trash bin. There was no physical evidence found on the bottles, no DNA, no finger prints. But both the bottles were uncapped and empty. The only people who had access to those bottles and could have drank them were the flight crew. Margaret, Evans and Camelia Satou all had clean tox reports. That leaves you and Trina Marquez.
Okay. I see...where this is going. That's funny that they found two bottles.
Why?
Because I drank three. One's missing.
When I met you I couldn't believe what a flip, drunk, arrogant scumbag you were.
Fuck you too, Hugh.
But I did the research and heard the analysis from the experts. I'm in awe of what you did.
Can I go now?
THE NTSB AND THE FAA TOOK 10 EXPERIENCED PILOTS AND PLACED THEM IN SIMULATORS. THEY RECREATED ALL OF THE EVENTS THAT LED TO THIS PLANE FALLING OUT OF THE SKY!
Do you know how many were able to safely land these broken planes?
Not one. Every pilot crashed and killed everyone on board.
Yeah. So?
You have no capacity to accept the responsibility for the miracle you performed and the lives you saved.
Great. I'm going home.
Do you want to go to prison? I'm trying to save your life!
What fucking life?! Don't kill yourself on my account, Hugh.
Okay, I'm done here. I'm running out a faith that this guy's gonna make it, Charlie.
 You wanna talk about me like I'm not here? Like I'm fucking dead?
 This NTSB hearing is a Federal Agency Hearing. Do you understand that? It's in 10 days and if I show up with you like this?!
Everything we've done? Everything I've done? Goes out the window. That's not on me. I did my job. It's your job, Charlie, to get him straight and get him to the church on time.
Yeah Charlie just get him home. Sober him up long enough to save the union's contract and that fat fuck's airline. Fuck you. I shoulda died on that plane.
What are you doing here?
It's lovely to see you too Deana. May I come in?
Thought I`d come see you and Will.  KNUCKLES! YOU HERE?  We haven't talked at all since this whole thing happened and I just thought we should talk.
You know that I prefer that you call us.
Call you? Like anyone in this house has called me in the last three years to say anything other than "Where's the money?"
Have you been drinking?
Well that took...what? 17 seconds?  It took 17 seconds for you-
I'm gonna ask you to step outside of the house, please.
 LADIES and GENTLEMEN it took EXACTLY 17 SECONDS FOR DEANA COLEMAN to ask me if I have been drinking! A NEW WORLD RECORD!
I'm calling the police.
You're asking me to leave the house I bought for you?! Very good.
I'm telling you to leave.
William Whitaker, junior. The man of the house. Nice of you to call me back.
I'm telling you to leave.
You are? Are you the man of the house?
You upset my mother. You gotta go.
I'm your father, tough guy.
You're a drunk. Now get the fuck out!
You don't know who the fuck I am!
 I sure don't.
What did you say?
I said, "I sure don't." Why don't you tell me? Who the fuck are you?! Who are you? Huh? WHO ARE YOU?!
I'm outta here. I'm outta here. I know where I'm not wanted.
Folks, please give us some room.  At the appropriate time I will tell my story. Now is a time for grieving and taking care of those injured. Thank you. I appreciate your interest in me but I ask that you leave my family in peace.
I'm Captain Whitaker, I was-
Yes sir, I know who you are.
Can you get me to my car?
 Anything you need, sir.
Now is a time for grieving and taking care of those injured. Thank you. I appreciate your interest in me but I ask that you leave my family in peace.
A reasonable request from a quiet, heroic man who's been through so much. This is Tilda Banden reporting from Devonwood.
In a related story, tonight at 10 Cale Rawson talks with aviation experts to see if the tragedy of flight 227 could have been avoided.
Hey, Charlie. Thank you. Amanda was so nice to let me in. It's just...I couldn't find a safe place.
What the hell is wrong with you? I spoke to Hugh, he told me that you went to your ex-wife's house? Drunk as a skunk and the news crews showed up?  And the police escorted you out?
I think it's okay. I've been watching and I think it's okay.
Hugh checked every media outlet that covered it and it looks like we're good. You come off fine.
Okay. Good then. Listen Charlie, here's the deal-
No Whip. No deals. Look at you. I have no idea what you're gonna do or say, ever. You're all over the place. I was the one guy in your court. I was your apologist, your defender. But not anymore.
No. I can do this.
You're about to be questioned by a Federal Agency about piloting an airliner drunk...an airliner that crashed. And you continue to drink and stumble around. What kind of crazy do you have to be to do that? I'm scared of you.
Let's just stick to the plan.
You can't stick to anything.
This whole thing has just been so heavy, it's killing me. Tell Hugh, I can do it. Look, I really wanna fly again, get back to my life and be done with all this shit.
This hearing is 10 days away. Hugh busted his ass to try to get you excused, but there's no way. You have to appear.
Let me stay here. They have my houses all staked out now. Let me stay here until the hearing, Charlie. I won't leave the house.
You can't drink here, Whip. You can't drink in my house. Can you do that?
I won't drink.
You look great, Whip. I mean that.
Thank you. I feel really good.
I heard you haven't had a drink in 8 days.
9 days...  Two hours and 26 minutes...but who's counting?
Officer Edmonds?
Yes sir.
Whip, Officer Edmonds will be staying here tonight. Any problems he'll handle it.
Well, Whip we just wanted to make this as easy for you as possible.
Just get a good night's rest. Relax, order up a steak, get a movie.
Okay, cowboy, I'm out. The hearing starts at 10, so we should plan on 9 for breakfast here in the room.
Wait, Charlie, thanks for letting me stay with you. I needed it.
You did great cowboy.
You've got a beautiful family.
I'm very blessed.
I made you a copy of my entire file on you and the investigation. I also tried to anticipate what you might be asked under oath and I wrote out some non-damaging responses. It's all in there; photos, testimony, interviews...I called Ellen Block let her know that you're here and all tucked in.
So does she have the knife out for me?
Remember she's limited in what she can ask you. You're not on trial but you are under oath. She's probably not happy that I killed the tox report, but you'll be fine.
I'll see you in the morning.
Hello? Anyone?
Good morning, how's our man?
Not a peep.
I think your pilot overslept.
You didn't let any girls in there last night did you?
No sir, not a soul. No one came in or out.
I have a room key.
Did he disappear?
Whip? Hello?
Where is he?
Whip? WHIP!
WHIP?!!! WHIP!!!
Is he dead?
I DON'T KNOW!!!
IS HE DEAD?!
Yes!!! I'm dead!!!
Should I get an ambulance?
Yes!
Wait!...just wait, Charlie...let's think about this.
Get him to the bed... 
Son of a bitch! You worthless motherfucker, what a waste! I cleared the decks for you...you piece of shit. You just fucked it all up like the piss drunk you are!
WOAH!!! WOAH!!! WOAH!!! Enough!
What time is it?
9:14, the hearing is in 46 minutes.
How much grace do you think we got?
Amazing grace...how sweet the sound...that saved a wretch like me-
Shut the fuck up you drunk...
I once was lost and now I'm found was blind but...now...well I'm still kinda blind.
We probably have an hour before we really need to get him to the hearing and it's just downstairs.
We need a wheel chair.
Call Harling Mays.
Harling's got a wheel chair?
Harling's got cocaine.
Cocaine? Cocaine?!
WHAT'S HIS NUMBER!?
This is fucking insane. And criminal.
609-237-1184. We're in 609 so just...
 237...1184...
129 Tell him I need bananas... 129
Harling? Harling this is Charlie. I'm a friend of Whip's...yeah. We need you to do a very early, very discreet...uhm...Whip needs bananas and you need to bring them to The St. Jerome Hotel downtown...how many bunches of bananas?  3 is the answer I'm getting -- you will be well compensated...the The St. Jerome Hotel room 1027...
 Come mista tally man tally me banana...Whip, what's the deal man you look like you're hurtin' for certain...shut the door, interior lock!
YOU DO NOT TOUCH THE MERCH MOTHERFUCKER!!!
Everyone except Whip and myself take three steps away from the table.
I need three things.  Two glasses of water, a credit card and a hundred dollar bill.
All I have is a twenty.
 That'll do. And I need to make a coco puff.
A what?
Millions of dollars hang in the balance.
They hang on the consumption of a 300 dollar bag of cocaine.
Okay Whip, just two small whiffs first...one on each side...just a primer.
Atta boy, head back now. Swallow. Water, chief, you! Water.
 Coco puff...
Little coco puff buddy. C'mon banana man. Who's the banana man?
Good man, focus up big dog. Here's the train comin' to you.
 Keep it down big dog, banana boat's comin' tell me the banana boat's comin'...
The banana boat is here.
Nothing can keep you down dog. Nothing keeps the big dog down.
Okay, we gotta go.
You guys are up.
No, I'm good. Charlie?
Are you fucking crazy?
Thanks brother, I'm back.
I love you man.
I love you too.
There's a gram in here, you paid for it and he might need it. My work here is done. See you all on the dark side of the moon.
Morning.
Your nose...
I'm gonna head in and tell Ellen Block that we're here.
You're gonna make it. Remember, if they ask about your drinking, it's totally acceptable to say, "I don't recall."
Do not tell me how to lie about my drinking. I've been lying about my drinking my whole life.
Those are difficult images to watch. For the record, I'm Ellen Block, Hearing Officer for this hearing. Captain Whitaker, good morning.
Morning.
What was captured on that video is that the aircraft was in a relatively stable glide just prior to the moment of impact. However, according to the data we retrieved from the cockpit data recorders, at exactly 9:34, after flying 27 minutes without incident, the transponder recorded a loss in altitude in excess of 4800 feet per minute in what is considered a "full pitch nose down" attitude. Then at 9:42, according to the data recorders, a decision was made to invert the aircraft. The NTSB has created animated simulation that I would like to play at this point.
That audio is tragic and compelling. I chose to play that part of the cockpit recording to highlight a key moment aboard flight 227, wherein you say "We're gonna roll it, here we go, I've got control." You made a very conscious decision to invert the airplane, to roll the plane upside down. Is that correct?
I'm not sure it was conscious. It was more of an instinct.
What led to that decision?
I don't recall.
Let me quote from an investigative summary..."From 9:34 until 9:42 the events on the aircraft are"...again I quote, "bold and remarkable"... "By inverting the plane, Captain Whitaker arrested the descent and allowed the aircraft to level off enabling him to glide the aircraft away from any populated areas and allowing him to execute a forced landing in an open field.
I heard a metallic bang. We pitched nose down. No control.
You had no idea what was wrong with the aircraft?
There was a lot of things wrong with that aircraft.
As I said before you can add any details you like to any comments I make. Do you remember any thing else that was out of the ordinary? Did you feel the flight crew was in their best shape?
Yes.
It was raining very hard the morning you took off, wasn't it?
There was some convective activity in the area. However, my first officer and I discussed the conditions on the field and determined that we were safely within our visibility and crosswind minimums.
Yes, first officer Evans' testimony confirms the same.
I want to show you something.
Nothing's happening.
This remote is not working. Apologies. I can do it manually.
This is the jackscrew on the tail assembly which articulates the horizontal stabilizer--also known as the elevator. As you can see, the threads on this screw are almost entirely gone. "
Our investigators have concluded that the jackscrew snapped and the elevator was frozen in a fixed position, locking the elevator in a down position which forced the plane into a dive. The loss of the elevator was, and I quote our report, a "catastrophic event, from which recovery was improbable and stable flight impossible."
Again I quote..."From 9:34 until 9:42 the piloting decisions made by Captain Whitaker were bold and remarkable. The fact that Captain Whitaker commanded that the aircraft stay inverted while descending to an extremely low altitude shows a miraculous intuition that in this instance saved 96 lives."
I appreciate that.
Mr. Whitaker, I want to talk about the days leading and hours leading up to the accident. But before I do, I want to remind you that you are under oath and any testimony that you give here today will be considered admissable in any subsequent hearings or criminal proceedings, do you understand what that means?
Captain Whitaker, for the record I need you to verbalize your answer.
Yes, I understand.
On the three days leading up to the day of the accident -- Tuesday, October 11th, Wednesday, October 12th or Thursday, October 13th of 2011 -- did you consume any alcohol or other intoxicating elements?
No. I did not.
On the morning of the accident, Friday, October 14th, did you consume any alcohol or ingest any chemicals or drugs that may have impaired your ability to perform your job?
No. I did not.
Mr. Whitaker, do you now or have you ever had a problem with alcohol dependency, alcoholism or drug addiction?
No.
Okay, Mr. Whitaker, we're about done.  Due to the severe turbulence during the early part of the flight, you asked the flight crew to suspend the beverage service on the plane. Is that correct?
Yes. I suspended the drink service.
Are you aware that our investigators found two single- service Vodka bottles in the galley trash bin?
Yes.
There were 5 crew members on board the flight who would have had access to the beverage trolley. Less than an hour after the accident, blood was taken from each of the crew members. Yourself...
First Officer Evans, flight attendant Margaret Thomason and posthumously from Camelia Satou and Katerina Marquez.
A toxicology analysis was performed and three of these tests came back negative, one was disqualified for technical reasons...
And one tested positive for alcohol. It registered a .17 blood alcohol level. Are you aware of that?
I am now.
Miss Marquez was not only a colleague, but you knew her outside of work? Correct?
Outside of work? Not really.
Did you know Miss Marquez had a drinking problem?
No. I did not.
Did you ever see her drink to excess?
No. I did not.
Did you know that she was twice treated for alcohol addiction? The last time was 16 months ago and paid for by SouthJet Airlines?
No. I did not.
Is it your opinion that Katerina Marquez drank the vodka on the plane?
Can you repeat the question?
Your opinion Captain. Is it your opinion that Katerina Marquez drank on that flight?
I'm sorry. My what...
Since her toxicology report is the only toxicology report that is admissable in this hearing, and she in fact tested positive for alcohol, is it your opinion that Katerina Marquez drank those 2 bottles of vodka on the flight?
I'm sorry Mr. Whitaker, I couldn't hear you. What did you say?
I SAID...God help me...
Yes, well. However, is it your opinion...
 IT'S MY OPINION...  It's my opinion... Trina DID NOT...drink the vodka.
Excuse me, Mr. Whitaker...
 She saved that boy's life...
Captain Whitaker can you speak LOUDER-
 I KNOW FOR A FACT THAT SHE DID NOT DRINK THAT VODKA...
...because I did. I drank the vodka.
OBJECTION!!!
I drank the vodka bottles on the plane.
Mr. Whitaker, in light of that remark, would you like to readdress...
You don't have to readdress anything. I DRANK THE VODKA!
On the three nights before the accident, October 11th-
On October 11th, 12th and 13th and 14th I was intoxicated. I drank alcohol on all of those days. I drank to excess.
Mr. Whitaker, on the morning of OCTOBER-
I was drunk. I'm drunk right now, Miss Block...I'm drunk right...  I'm drunk now, because... Because I'm an alcoholic.
That was it...I was done. It's as if I'd hit my life long limit for lies.
I could not tell one more lie. And maybe I'm a sucker. Because if I had just told one more lie? I could have walked away from that whole mess and kept my wings and my false sense of pride and most importantly I would have avoided being locked up here with all of you nice folks for the last 13 months.
It looks like I will serve every day of the remaining 4 plus years of my sentence. And that's fair. I betrayed the public trust. I did. That's what the judge explained to me. I had betrayed the public trust. The FAA took my license. And that's fair. The chances of me flying again are slim to none. And I accept that.
I've had time to think about all of it. Doing a lot of writing. I've written letters to each of the families that lost loved ones on my flight. Some were able to hear my apology, some never will. I've also apologized to all the people who tried to help me along the way, but I couldn't or wouldn't listen, like my wife, I mean my ex wife...  ...and my son. Again, some were able to forgive me...some never will.  But at least I'm sober, and I'm grateful for that.
And this is gonna sound really stupid coming from a man who's in prison...but for the first time in my life...I'm free.
Whitaker, you got a visitor.
You have 40 minutes.
Knuckles, you're looking good.  I sent you something for your birthday.
Yeah. I got it.
This is a real surprise; a great surprise. I haven't seen you-
College counselor thought I should come and interview you.
Great. An interview. Okay.
I'm writing essays for college applications.
Listen Will, it means everything to me that you came here. You are an amazing kid and you deserve great things...
So can you help me with this essay?
Yeah. Of course.
This essay. I have to do an essay called, "the most fascinating person I've never met."
And that's me?
Can we pick up where we left off?
Okay.
Who are you?
Good question.
