A HOWL breaks the night, a wolf pursuing its prey perhaps, or perhaps something much, much worse. VOICES break the perfect stillness.
What was that?
Just a child of night, Jonathan. Come, sit here beside me on the veranda.
It's chilly out here.
Oh, no, it isn't. It's beautiful. I love the night so.
I've never seen you so beautiful before, Nina. So pale, so luminescent, so He suddenly stops. There is a moment. Then:
Yes?
Your lips are so red.
Are they? Would you like to kiss them? The CAMERA STARTS TO PUSH IN CLOSER AND CLOSER on the town as though searching for the source of the voices.
The voices seem to be coming from the Brewster house, spe- cifically from a dark second-story window that is open to the night breeze.
Why are you looking at me so strangely, Nina?
Not you, Jonathan. Your neck. Has anyone ever told you it was beautiful?
Come, lay your head on my breast. The CAMERA SLOWLY STARTS TO PUSH IN on the second-.story window.
One of those terrible AIP/Hammer horror films is on the tube, a woman, obviously a vampire, talking to one of those vapid juveniles used so much in these types of films, the two of them standing on a veranda to some huge, old house. The young man rests his head against her breast, incredibly enough, unaware that she is bending toward his neck with these huge fangs. Just as. she is about to sink them into his jugular, a tall, saturnine man steps out of the darkness., wearing a rather daffy Victorian suit and carrying a stake and mallet in his hand. His name is PETER VINCENT.
Stop, you creature of the Night! The vampiress leaps to her feet, her hapless, intended victim forgotten. She faces Peter with a, hiss, her fangs sparkling in the moonlight.
Who are you who interrupts my nightly feeding?
 Peter Vincent, vampire killer! He rushes her, the stake held high to plunge into her breast and the CAMERA TURNS AWAY from the TV as the sounds of the movie CROSS FADE with the SOUNDS OF HEAVY BREATHING, LIPS MEETING, TONGUES INTERTWINING in the room itself. Only the room, a typical teenager's lair, seems devoid of life, the bed empty, schoolbooks untouched sitting on the desk. The CAMERA BEGINS TO SEARCH the room, looking for the source of this new sound, much more interesting than the old flick on the tube. And then it finds them, CHARLEY BREWSTER and AMY PETERSEN, two sixteen-year olds, on the floor to the far side of the bed, wedged between the bed and the window. They are both as American as their jeans and making out like crazy. They twis.t and turn on the floor, Amy alternating between enjoy- ing it and fighting Charley off, both of them white hot with their mutual need. As he tries to slip his hand under her blouse, she catches-a glimpse of the TV. The horror movie has faded out to be replaced by the interior of a local TV studio, a tacky graveyard set the centerpiece, the visage of Peter Vincent, much older now, rising out of a papier mache coffin and filling the screen as CREDITS END.
This is Peter Vincent, bringing you' Fright Night Theatre. Tonight's journey into horror is "Blood Castle," one of my favorites. And for a very good season. I star -in it. He does this booming laugh that goes through about ten echo chambers as Charley, totally oblivious to the TV, works on Amy's bra, trying to get it undone, obviously something she doesn't want. She tries to distract him.
Charley, Peter Vincent's on.
 Forget Peter Vincent.
But you love him.
I love you more -- Behind them, the station break segues into a commercial, a bunch of kids singing and dancing joyfully to a Coca-Cola commercial. On the floor, Charley finally gets Amy's bra undone. That's it for her; she twists away.
Charley, stop it. Be doesn't listen, going for her again, their finger fight- ing behind her back, hers trying to get the bra resnapped, his trying to keep it undone and get her blouse off at the same time. She suddenly pushes him away, really hard this time.
Charley, I said stop it. Charley rolls over, leaping to his feet, frustrated as hell.
Jesus, give me a break, Amy. We've been going together almost a year and all I hear is "Charley, stop it!"' They stare at each other angrily, both of them breathing hard, their young hormones roiling inside them. Then they look away, not wanting to see the other's anger, staring at the TV for lack of any better place to look.
The horror movie is on again, Peter Vincent and Jonathan now carrying a coffin across a fog swept cemetery. Charley looks back at Amy, his features softening.
I'm sorry, Amy. She rises, both of them standing by the open window, staring at each other.
Me, too. (she puts a hand out, touching his arm) I'm just scared, that's all. He nods understandingly, touched by her honesty and inno- cence, his basic decency winning out over his lust. Sud- denly she steps into his arms, kissing him as she never has before. She breaks, staring up into his face nervously.
 You mean it? She nods, stepping into his arms again, kissing him like he's never been kissed before, the two of them slowly turn- ing, Charley seeing the TV first with its grave digger scene, then the wall, and finally out the window over Amy's shoulder. And he freezes. There, below in the side yard, he sees two shadowy figures carrying what looks very much like a coffin toward the storm doors to the Dandrige house next door. His mouth drops open as Amyslips out of his arms and onto the bed, completely unaware of what he's seeing. She starts to take off her blouse, Charley no longer looking at her, his gaze glued to the weird scene he's seeing out his window. As her blouse comes off, she lays back in the bed, looking up at him, waiting for him to join her.
Charley, I'm ready. He ignores her, grabbing his binoculars from his desk, whipping.them to his eyes and focusing in-on-the figures below.
They're too dark to make out clearly, but they are JERRY DANDRIGE and BILLY COLE. An errant beam of moonlight hits the large, oblong box, and Charley gasps. It's a beautiful piece of work, huge, ornate, obviously incredibly old, and bound in brass. Amy stares at Charley with rising confusion and irritation.
Charley, I said I'm ready.
(still glued to his
Amy, you're not going to believe this, but there are two guys in the yard below. And I think they're carrying a coffin.
 Sure, and they're on the moors, right.
Amy, I'm serious.
So am I. Do you want to make love or not? Charley is still peering through the binoculars, the two figures below having gotten the storm doors open and now carrying the coffin into the basement of the house next door.
Amy, quick, come-here, you've got to see this. All he hears is his bedroom door slamming shut. He whirls to find Amy gone. Tossing the binoculars on the bed,, he dives after her.
Okay, maybe it wasn't a coffin, but I did see two guys carrying something into that house --
Amy, Charley, what's wrong? They stop, turning to stare through the doorway at Charley's mom, JUDY BREWSTER, sitting in the living room, watching the ten o'clock news on the downstairs TV. She's a young forty, pleasant looking and warm.
Amy steps into the living room, Charley following, the two of them trying to pull themselves together so Charley's mother won't notice what they've been doing upstairs.
Have you two been having a lovers' spat?
Well, there's nothing wrong with that. (pointing at the maga- zine in her lap) Right here it says the divorce rate is 76% higher among couples who don't argue before marriage.
Oh, yes, that's right. Well it never hurts to-plan ahead.
Yes, Mrs. Brewster.
But he's no longer listening; he's moving toward the window that stares out at the house next door. There are lights on in the first floor.now. Behind him Amy turns back to his mother.
Good night, Amy. And thanks for helping Charley.
Anytime. See you tomorrow, Charley. Be hardly hears her, staring out the window. Miffed again, Amy turns and stomps out of the room, the front DOOR heard SLAMMING behind her a moment later.
Judy turns to her son to see what's wrong with him. He's glued to the window, staring at the house next door.
Charley, that wasn't very nice, not walking Amy to the front door.
 Mom, there are people. next door.
Oh, the new owner must.be moving in.
What new owner?
Didn't I tell you? Bob Hopkins told me he finally sold the place.
To who?
I.d.on't know. Some fellow who fikes up houses, he said. Supposed to be attractive, too. Anyway I just hope whoever he is, he knows what he's getting into with that house. It's going to take a lot of work just to make it liveable -- And the CAMERA leaves them behind, SLOWLY PUSHING IN TIGHTER AND TIGHTER on the TV Judy was watching, their VOICES FADING out to be taken over by the newscaster dron- ing away on the screen.
And now for the local news. A man was found murdered tonight behind the railroad yards. Details are pending waiting notification of next of
The bastard. Why didn't he tell us he was going to spring a pop quiz? Another kid comes out right behind him, holding a test paper with- a big A+ on it. Eis :name is EVIL ED THOMPSON and he's tall and thin with a terrible complexion and a personality to match.
That's the point to a pop quiz, Brewster. To surprise you. Charley glances up at that moment to see Amy walking by, her head held high, and looking in every direction but his.
Hey, Amy -- She keeps right on going, disappearing into the crowd. Evil Ed throws a look at Charley and cackles.
What's wrong? She finally found out what you're really like?
Buzz off, Evil.
Call me anything you want. Only you're the one failing Algebra, not me. With another high pitched laugh, he walks off, leaving Charley staring after Amy miserably.
Charley stops cold; she is definitely one of the most spec- tacular girls he's ever seen, obviously sexy, cheap around the edges, but no less spectacular for it. She looks at him like a little girl lost.
Is this ninety-nine Oak?
(pointing to the
No, next door. She nods her head in thanks and walks toward the next door house, the one. where he saw the two men carrying what looked to be a coffin into the basement. It's a three story house like Charley's but there any similarity ends. The Brewster house is newly painted and well lived in; the Dandrige house has long-been abandoned, the lawn overgrown, paint flecking from its side, the entire--place rundown and forlorn. Charley watches the girl disappear into the Dandrige house, whistling appreciatively under his breath. He turns for his own front door.
.Thanks. Charley stops by the kitchen sink, staring out at the Dandrige house. as his mother goes back to fixing dinner.
Mom, you seen the new guy next door yet?
No, but I did hear he's got a live-in carpenter. With my luck, he's probably gay.
Why, what do you know that I- don't?
Ah, nothing. Got to study. See you later. He cuts a beeline for the door, his mother staring after him disbelievingly as he disappears out the door.
Study? You?
Charley sits at one of the tables, almost falling asleep face down in his cheeseburger and fries as he tries to study. Suddenly Amy slips in beside.him.
Hi.
(looking up at her,
Hi.
It was my fault, not yours.
 God, I'm so glad we're getting this straightened out.
I've been miserable the last two days. You don't know what it's been
Over her shoulder he suddenly sees that the TV has gone to the local news, a picture of a girl who looks very much like the one he saw going into the Dandrige house the afternoon before on the screen. He is suddenly no longer listening or looking at Amy, his complete attention on the TV. She trails-off as she realizes she's lost his atten- tion, staring at him.
Charley, are-you listening to me? He gets up abruptly and walks away, leaving her sitting there staring after him. He stops'below the TV, staring up at it as the newscaster's voice runs over the picture of the girl.
Know what I heard on the police band .last night?
What?
 That wasn't the only murder. It's the second in two days.
 You're sick. A voice suddenly comes from behind him.
Charley.
There is no drawn shade now. Be can see clearly into the room and a beautiful teenage girl with long blonde hair stands there, framed in the window, slowly taking her blouse off. Charley rubs his eyes., hardly able to believe what he's seeing. As he watches she drops the blouse to the floor and stands there, bare breasted. Charley gulps, fumbling for his binoculars. He gets them to his eyes just as Jerry Dandrige steps out of the shadows behind the girl, gliding across the room toward her with incredible grace. To Charley the whole thing has.a dreamlike quality, Jerry more an impression than a reality. He's thirty maybe, almost beautiful with alabaster skin and chestnut hair. He stops behind the girl, sweeping her hair back, exposing her tender, young neck. He slowly leans down as though to kiss her. As Charley watches through his binoculars, unable to tear his eyes away, Jerry Dandrige's upper lip slowly begins to pull back,. revealing just the hint of fangs, long, razor sharp, and sparkling pearly white in the moonlight. Suddenly, Jerry Dandrige stops, the fangs poised an inch above the girl's throat. He slowly raises his head, star- ing out the window across the side yard and into Charley's bedroom.
It's almost as though he can see the boy watching him. - With an involuntary gasp of terror, Charley steps back into the deeper darkness of his room, his hand instinctively reaching up to-protect his own throat. Jerry Dandrigeslowly reaches up and pulls down the shade, cutting off all view into the room. Charley stands there for a moment, unable to believe what he just saw. The binoculars slip from his hand, crashing to the floor, and. he whirls, racing out of the room.
Morn, you've yot to get up. I can't believe what s happening next door.
(staring up as her son
What, what are you talking about?
He has fangs. The man who bought the house has fanas!
Oh, Charley, I have to be at work at
He hears a CAR DOOR SLAM in the yard next door. He jumps to the window, peering out into the back of the Dandrige house just in time to see Billy Cole walking away from a shiny new black Cherokee Jeep, its back door left open. Charley whirls and dashes out of the room, leaving his mother staring after him.
.There, among a clump of bushes, he crouches down, watching the black Jeep. The rear door is open as though to receive some burden, the yard empty, Billy Cole no longer'there. Suddenly the back door to the Dandrige house opens again and Billy comes out carrying a large bundle in a plastic trash bag over his shoulder. 'Charley's mouth falls open as he realizes the bundle could'easily be a woman's dead body. Billy dumps it in the back of the Jeep and slams the door, crossing. in front of the vehicle for the driver's door. Suddenly there is a terrific WHOOSH'through the air over Charley's head, the moonlight momentarily blotted out, the BEATING OF LARGE WINGS above causing the bushes around him to bend and sway. It's almost as though a huge bird, a bat perhaps, just swooped over his head from the top floor of- the Dandrige house. And then silence returns. Charley lifts his head, peering about in the darkness just in time to see a shape, more a shadow than a man, step out of the darkness no more than ten feet away. It's Jerry Dandrige. He glides toward the Jeep, tossing Billy a woman's purse.
Here, you forgot this. Billy one-hands it out of the air, turning back for the Jeep. Just then the back door to Charley's house bangs open, sending a shaft of light into the darkness. Judy Brewster stands there in the doorway, calling to her son.
Charley! Dandrig.e and Billy Cole freeze, both of them turning to look at the back door to the Brewster house, inadvertently staring right at the clump of bushes where Charley.is hid .ing. Dandrige takes a step forward, his eyes probing the dark- ness as though he can actually see through the murky black- ness right to where Charley hides. Terrified, Charley suddenly leaps to his feet and races back into his own yard, disappearing through the back door with his mother. Billy steps forward as though to follow the boy. Jerry puts out a restraining hand, stopping him.
Here, drink this..
Mom, I don't need hot cocoa. I didn't have a nightmare. They did kill a girl over there.
 Charley, how late did you stay up studying?
 iMom, I'm not sick. The guy did have `fangs and a bat did fly over my head .and then Jerry Dandrige stepped out of the shadows. You know what that means, don't you?
 What?.
He's a vam_re!
(.staring at him
A what?
A what?
(frustrated as hell
A vampire, damnit! Haven't you listened to anything I've said?
Charley, is this some kind of trick to get me 'back?
 i Forget it, L'm going to the police.
 Charley, you can't go to the police with a story like that. They'll lock you up.
All right, then I won't tell them it's a vampire. But I sure as hell am going to tell them about the two women --
Be slams out the back door, leaving her staring after him, ) T worried sick.
You sure about this now? Charley nods emphatically and the cop turns toward the house, Charley following.
Yes.
Mr. Dandrige?
No, I'm his roommate,Billy Cole.
 Lieutenant Lennox, homicide. Mind if we come in?
No, not at all. He steps back from the door, allowing them to enter. The house is a mess of cardboard moving boxes and heavy Victorian furniture scattered everywhere, a number of the pieces still under white dust covers. Clocks line one wall, none of them working, all set at 6 p.m.
Is there anything I can help you with?
There was a murder last night. Charley lives'next door and thinks he saw the victim in this house.
That's a lie.  I saw him carry her body out in a plastic bag.
What do you say to that, Mr. Cole?
See. We're just in the process of moving in --
The bag I saw had a body in it, not trash.
Did you actually see the body, Charley?
No, but --.
Okay, let's see 'em -- He takes a step to follow Billy out of the'room when Charley, increasingly desperate, stops him.
Look, I can prove he's lying. Let's look in the basement instead.
What's down there?
(turning and staring
Yes, Charley, what's down there? Charley meets the big man's gaze and finds his tongue stuck to the roof of his mouth. The seconds, tick past. Still nothing from Charley. Billy turns to the Lieutenant with a smile.
Obviously the boy's made a mistake,
 A coffin, that's what's down there, a coffin. I saw them carry it in!
 Now you listen to me, kid. If I ever see your ass down at the station house again, I'm throwing it in jail. Forever! He hops in his-car, slamming the door behind him as Charley hovers by the window.
Lieutenant Lennox, please, listen to
Lennox ignores him, ROARING away in a cloud of burning rubber. Charley stares after him, not knowing what to do now. He hears the PORCH DOOR of the Dandrige house OPEN behind him and whirls to find himself staring at Billy Cole, standing on the porch looking back at him, a toothpick in his mouth. There's something very unpleasant in the big man's eyes:- like murder. Charley slowly backs away from him toward his car, Cole's eyes following him.. Charley glances down at his wrist- watch.' It's four in the afternoon. He glances up at the sun overhead. It's beginning to sink, late afternoon and all that implies drawing nigh. He looks back at Billy Cole. The man is smiling at him now, reading his thoughts. Charley leaps into his car and takes off down the street.
Evil!
And to what do I owe this dubious pleasure?
The vampire knows that I know about him. Or at least he will when he wakes up tonight.
What are you talking about?
I've got a vampire living next door and he's going to kill me if I don't protect myself.
(looking at him like
What?
Look, Evil, I haven't got time to explain. Just tell me what to do to .protect myself.
(going back to his
Very funny, Brewster.
I'm not kidding. Evil, please, just tell me what to do.
Why should I help you? And don't call me that.
(digging money out of
Look, I've got eight bucks. Tell me what' to do and it s yours. Evil Ed stares at the money for a moment and then sweeps it into his. pocket.
Far be it from me to turn down a fool's money. Where and when do you expect this vampire to attack?
In my bedroom. Tonight. Evil Ed puts down his brush and pulls a dime store cross from his desk. He hands it to-Charley.
Start with this. Of course, you have to have faith for it to work. Then get some wolfbane --
What?
Forget it. Get some garlic, links of the stuff you can wear around your neck and hang from your window. If he comes for you,, that'll be the way. Then, of course, there's holy water. But you need a priest to say a blessing over it first. He goes back to his painting. Charley stares at him.
That's all?
'I'm afraid so. Of course, they can change into wolves and bats at will and I don't know what you do about that. But your best protection right now is that a vampire can't enter your house without being invited by the rightful owner first.
You sure about that?
Positive.
The cross Evil Ed gave him sits on his desk. He tests the window. It's secure. His mother calls up to him from the portico below.
Charley, come down here, please. There's someone I want you to meet. He turns and walks out of the room, feeling better now.
Yeah, Mom --
Charley, this is.our next door neighbor, Jerry Dandrige. Charley freezes. Jerry Dandrige sits in the best chair, a drink in his hand, smiling at Charley. He's even better looking close up, almost blindingly beautiful, too much so actually. There's something disturbing about it, as though such good looks have to cover up an inner putrefaction, some sort of hidden, sweet, sickly rot just beneath the perfect pale skin. He rises, the smile widening as he sees the terror in Charley's eyes. He holds his hand out as Judy watches her son for his reaction.
Hello, Charley. Charley just stares at him.
Well, shake hands, Charley. There's no reason to be rude. Charley slowly crosses to Jerry and takes his hand, shaking it as one would the hand of a recently disinterred corpse. Judy.smiles, pleased with herself.
(rising and smiling
I invited him over for a drink.
 You what?
(a bit taken aback by the intensity of her
Invited him over. Why? Charley turns back to stare at Jerry. Jerry smiles, speak- ing in a voice that flows like honey, charm and nascent sensuality oozing from his every pore.
What's wrong, Charley? Afraid I'd never come over without being invited first? You're quite right. But, of course, now that I've been made welcome, I'll probably drop by quite a bit. His voice changes, suddenly charged with double meaning, his eyes burning into Charley.
In fact, anytime I feel like it. (changing tack, turn- ing back to Judy) With your mother's kind permission, of course.
Of course, Jerry. You're welcome anytime. It's so nice someone interesting has finally moved into the neighborhood. It's so dull around here. I mean how many nights can you play Trivial Pursuit? Right, Jerry?
Charley watches this scene, backing across the room, terri- fied. He suddenly hits an end table, knocking it with a crash to the floor. Judy looks at him. He's ghost white.
Charley,. are you all right?
 Yeah, fine. I've just got to get back to my trigonometry, that's. all.
Nice meeting you, Charley. (his voice suddenly dripping with double
See you soon. And unseen by Judy, he looks directly at Charley and winks at him. Charley whirls, bolting out of room and pounding up the stairway out of sight. Judy turns to Jerry.
You know, our town really isn't'as boring as I make it sound. For instance, there's a dance at the church the first Friday of every month.
Jerry smiles a secret smile and takes a sip of his drink.
Yeah.
The vampire is in the house. My idiot mother just invited him over for a drink.
 No shit?
Ed, this is serious!
You still have my'cross?
Yeah, and I nailed my.window shut.
You sure?
Positive. Now good night. I've got some studying to do. He hangs up, returning to painting his monster model of the Ghoul, mumbling to himself.
Fucking idiot.
A tree branch, caressed by the wind, is slowly.moving back and forth across a pane of glass in one of the french doors to the patio. Relieved, Charley slips the cross into his pants pocket and turns, walking back up the stairs.
Now we wouldn't want to wake your mother, would we, Charley?
Do you realize the trouble you've caused me? Spying on me, almost disturbing my sleep this afternoon, telling policemen about me He reaches down and grabs the boy, jerking him erect, and slamming him against the wall again, Charley's legs dangling several feet above the floor. Jerry leans in, pressing his face close to Charley.
You deserve to die, boy And he. begins to slowly choke Charley, suddenly stopping, staring into the boy's face.
Of course, I could give you something I've never had... a choice. You forget abotrt me and I'll forget about you. What do you say, Charley?
Judy can be heard RATTLING HER BEDROOM DOOR in its frame, trying to get it open. Jerry's head whips back and forth between the door to the hall and Charley, the SOUNDS of Judy struggling to get her bedroom door open becoming louder all the time. The door across the hall starts-to give with a groan. With a hiss of frustrated fury, the vampire whirls, throws open Charley's door, and dashes out into the hail. Charley throws off his shock at still being alive and plunges after him.
Charley, what happened?
Now what's that? She takes a step for the window only to have Charley grab her, gently guiding her back toward her bedroom.
Nothing, Mom. Just the raccoons in the garbage again. Why don't you go back to sleep. ,
But what about your nightmare? Do you want a valium?
I'm fine now, honest. Night.
Well, I do needy sleep. I start the night shift tomorrow, you know.
Yes, Nom, I know. Now, good night. He pushes her through her door into her bedroom, closing the door behind her and turning for his own room.
I know you're there, Charley, I can see you. Charley slowly turns, staring out his window. There, in the window of the house next door,. stands Jerry Dandrige, the phone to his ear, staring at Charley.
I just destroyed your car, Charley. But-it's nothing compared to what I'm going to do to you tomorrow night. Be hangs up, slowly reaching out and drawing the shade.
y1 Rev. 11/23/84
Hello, horror fans. I hope you're enjoying "I, A Vampire Part Two." It's one of my best. Did you know a lot of people don't believe in vampires?
Charley straightens up, his gaze suddenly riveted to the screen.
But I do. Because I know they exist. I have faced them inn. all their guises, men, wolves, bats. And I have always won. That's why they call me The Great Vampire Killer.
Get him, Peter,. get him --
Hey, Mr. Vincent -- Peter ignores him, continuing to walk-toward his car as. Charley falls in beside him.
Could I talk to you a minute?  Please, Mr. Vincent, it's terribly important. Peter, abruptly stopped, resigned to the fact that boy is not going to let him alone. He whips out a fountain pen.
All right, what do you want me to sign?
Well, you want my autograph, don't you?
No, sir. I was curious about what you said last night on TV. You know, about believing in vampires.
What about it?
Were you serious?
Absolutely. Unfortunately none of your generation seems to be.
What do you mean?
 That I have been fired because no one wants to see vampire killers anymore. Or vampires either. Apparently all they want are demented madmen running around in ski masks hacking up young virgins. Now if'you'll excuse me -- Be starts for his car again, Charley falling in beside him.
i believe in vampires.
In fact I have one living next door. Would you help me kill him ? That stops Peter cold. He turns and stares at the boy.
Pardon me?
You know the murder of that girl that happened yesterday?
Yes.
Well, the'guy who lives next door did it and he's a vampire. A moment. Then Peter turns away angrily.
If this is your idea of a joke, I am not amused.
I'm sorry, you'll have to excuse me --
 But, Mr. Vincent, I'm telling the
Peter stops before his car, on outrageous old clunker, and fishes out his keys.
You just said you believe in
Please, you have to listen to me. The vampire tried to kill me last night-and trashed mv car when he didn't succeed. He'll be coming back for me tonight and if I don't get help, he's going to kill me -- Peter shoves him aside,hopping into his car, quickly lock- ing the door behind him, obviously terrified of Charley. As he starts the engine, Charley beats on the window.
Mr. Vincent, you've got to believe
Peter backs up, hauling ass out of the lot, Charley running after him.'
Mr. Vincent He comes to a halt, realizing its useless, standing there .watching as Peter disappears out of the lot and down the street.
What are you doing here?
Me? What about you? I thought you just dumped him.
 What I'm doing here is-none of your business.
 Aha, you do like him! He disappears into the house right behind her.
Anybody home? No answer, nothing but silence. She and'Evil Ed exchange glances, then start up the steps.
The room has been transformed from a normal, happy kid's room into a armament camp for a vampire assault. The window is nailed shut,. strands of garlic, a dozen at least, hung from the curtains. Dime store crosses and cru- cifixes are everywhere,, in every imaginable shape and size. Charley sits. in' the middle of the floor, whittling a stake from a slat of grape fence, a hammer by his side.
Self-defense. Not that I think I'll need it. He'll be dead before nightfall.
 Who will be?
Dandrige. I'm waiting for the guy he lives with to leave, then I'm doing to go next door, find his coffin, and pound this through his heart. He holds up the stake. Evil Ed and Amy look at it, hor- rified.
That's murder, Charley.
 You can't murder a vampire, Amy. They're already dead, remember.
Charley, you're acting crazy.
I don't have any choice, Amy. The police won't listen to me,.my mother thinks I'm crazy, you two, even Peter Vincent thinks I'm nuts.
And now for the two o'clock news. Another body of a young woman was discovered early this morning in back of the Sheraton Mall -- He hits the stop button and turns back to them.
See. After he attacked me last night he went out and had his dinner. (turning to stare out the window at the Dandrige house again) No, I- don't have any choice. Somebody has to stop him. Hold.on, I need
He rises and disappears out the door into the hall. Evil Ed turns to Amy, truly frightened for the first time. He whispers to her.
What are we going to do? if we don't stop him he's actually going to try to kill this guy.
I know, I know --
I don't believe this. It's like Fright Night.
 That's it!
What?
We get Peter Vincent to prove to him that this Dandrige guy isn't a vampire.
(shocked by the
How are we going to do that?
I don't-know, but we better figure out a way if we don't want to be visiting Charley in jail. Charley enters from the hall, carrying another slat of wood to be sharpened. Evil Ed and Amy fall silent as he takes his seat by the window and goes back to his whittling.
(nervously clearing her
Charley, .it's going to be dangerous doing into that house alone, isn't it?
I told you, I already tried him.
Why not let us try before you do anything?
Why should he believe you anymore than he did me?
Maybe we're better talkers.
Fat chance.
What happens if you go into that house alone and he gets you? Who's going to stop him then?
 Charley, it'll be dark soon. You don't want to go into-"that house then, do you?
No, you're right there.
All right, try him again..
(she stops, turning
You don't believe me, do you?
Yes.
Could we talk to you for a moment, Mr. Vincent?
 I'm afraid now isn't the best time --
Please. It's terribly important. He stares at her and. sees the desperation in her eyes. He steps back, closing the door behind him, and following them into the room.
Now what' can I do for you? An autograph or an interview for your school newspaper?
I'm afraid this is much more. important.
I know you're a very busy man, Mr.
 No.
He's the one who thinks a vampire is living next door.
We need your help' to stop him, Mr. Vincent. You see, he really does believe his next 'door neighbor is a vampire. Re's planning to kill him.
Are you two serious?  My dear, your friend needs a psychiatrist, not'a vampire killer.
I'm afraid not, my dear. (nodding at an open suitcase on the bed) You see, Hollywood beckons. I've been offered a starring role in a major movie. I've even had to quit Fright Night. So you see, I'm
I'll hire you. I'll give you money.
 How much?
I have a five hundred dollar savings
I'll take it. (sitting in a chair across from her, sud- denly all charm) Now how are we going to cure your little friend of this delusion?
I got it all figured out. We all go next door to the neighbor and you run some kind of vampire test on-him and pronounce-him human. Like in "Orgy of the Damned." You know, where you looked in the mirror and the guy didn't have a reflection and then you knew he was a vampire.
It sounds fine to me, but how do we get this next door neighbor to agree?
Yes.
He listens as what must be the ATTIC DOOR is heard CREAKING OPEN on the floor above. Billy turns and stares up the stairway as Jerry appears out of the darkness, slowly walk- ing down the steps. Billy holds the phone out to him.
It's for you. Jerry takes it.
Yes.
He's a reborn Christian. He thinks crosses would be sacrilegious.
Ask him how he feels-about holy water?
 How about holy water? (he listens, then back
Won't do either.
Tell him it'll-be just ordinary tap water and all he has to do is take a sip. Evil Ed turns back to the phone.
Yes, that sounds fine. Only don't come over till six tomorrow.
It seems we won't have to go out tonight after all. His friends are bringing him over tomorrow night.
Who is it?
It's me and Amy, stupid. Open up. Charley opens the-door and lets them in. Amy throws her- self into his arms, almost dancing around the room in her joy.
Charley, Peter Vincent said he'd come.
He did. When?
Tomorrow at six.
Relax, he's Peter Vincent, the Great Vampire Killer. He must know what he's doing, right?
 Honest?
'It's six ten. He said he'd be here at six, right?
Relax. He said he'd be here, he'll be here. Peter's old clunker appears around the corner. Amy is the first to see it.
Here he comes. The kids rush the car as Peter pulls up.
Mr. Vincent, I can't tell you how much I appreciate this -- Peter slowly gets out of the car, stretching to his full height. He wears his vampire killer regalia, the Victorian suit, and carries a small leather satchel. There is some- thing truly majestic about him.. He looks down at Charley, laying it on. with a trowel.
Charley Brewster, I presume? (as Charley nods; Peter shakes his hand) Peter Vincent, vampire killer. And now down to business. Where is the lair of this suspected creature of the night?
(pointing at the
There.
Well, shall we?
Where're your stakes and hammer?
I left them in my bag-.
I have to prove he's a vampire before I kill him, Charley.
But I know he's a vampire.
But I am the one that has to know, Charley. This is holy water. If it touches him, he'll blister- and in this case I asked him to drink it while we all watched. He readily agreed.
Yes. Which doesn't exactly strengthen your case, does it? Now, shall we go. He takes a step up the walk. Charley grabs his arm.
But, Mr. Vincent, if I'm right and you prove he's a vampire, he'll kill us all right then and there.
No, he won't, Charley. Not with me here to protect you. After all, I'm Peter Vincent.. ' -
He starts up the walk, Amy and Evil Ed following him. Charley runs after him, increasingly desperate.
But, Mr. Vincent, you don't know how powerful he is. He can change into a bat and fly through the night -- Peter stops on the porch, knocking on the door, listening to the boy with half an ear.
Of course, Charley, of course. But then he's never dealt with me before either.
Billy Cole opens the door, his face lighting up when he sees Peter.He shakes his hand warmly.
Mr. Vincent, Billy Cole. This is a pleasure. Won't you all come .in? He steps back and.Peter, Evil Ed, and Amy enter the house. Charley has no choice but to follow.
Hey, Jerry, they're here. Several seconds pass. Nothing happens. Peter turns to Billy.
Perhaps he didn't hear you.
Jerry reaches the bottom of the stairs and turns to Peter with a blinding smile.
Ah, Mr. Vincent. (shaking Peter's hand
I've seen all your films and I've .found them very amusing.
 And who might these two attractive people be?
 This is Ed Thompson and Amy Peterson.
 Isn't that what vampires are supposed to do, Charley? Charley scowls at him. The others laugh. Jerry turns to the living room.
Please, come in -- Be ushers Peter into the living room, Billy following. Amy and Evil Ed stare after Jerry, both totally captivated.
God, he's neat. She follows him into the living room. Evil Ed shoots Charley a disgusted glance.
Some vampire, Brewster. He follows the others. Left alone, Charley has no choice but to join them.
You'll have to excuse the mess. I'm still unpacking --
Where do you keep your coffin? Or do you have more than one?
EMPTY_LINE
Charley, you didn't.
 It's perfectly all right, Mr. Vincent. Where is the, ah, holy water?
Peter withdraws the vial from his pocket. Jerry eyes it warily, staring at Peter, his voice suddenly heavy with double meaning.
Are you sure that's holy water, Mr. Vincent?
 Positive. I saw Father Scanlon bless it down at Saint Mary's myself. Jerry takes the vial from his-hand, pulling the stopper, and sniffing at it, for the first time nervousness creeping into his manner.. Charley sidles up to Amy, whispering in her ear as Jerry prepares to drink the water.
Get ready to run. I'll protect you with this. He edges a cross out of his pocket, just giving her a glimpse of it. He glances up just as Jerry lifts his head back and. downs the contents of the vial in one swallow. He 1 7 7 turns to Peter triumphantly.
There, satisfied?
Totally.
But, it can't be --
You just saw it, Charley. You know as well as I do that no vampire could drink blessed water.
Then it wasn't blessed!
Charley looks at Jerry. Jerry stares back at hire, smiling. Charley suddenly whips the cross out of his packet and holds it up.
If he's not a vampire, then have him touch this? Jerry stiffens, his face losing its color, but none of the others notice. They're all looking askance at Charley. Peter steps up to the boy.
Charley, you've already made a fool of yourself once. There's no reason to compound the error.
Yes, Charley, you've already.caused your friends quite enough pain. (his eyes burning into Charley, hammering the
You don't want to cause them any more, do you? Charley sees.Dandrigecoiling to . spring, Billy sliding into place blocking the doorway to the portico. The tension level in the room is suddenly unbearable. Peter, Amy, and Evil Ed are aware of it although they don't know the reason. Charley slowly edges the cross back into his pocket.
No, no, of course not.,
And you're finally-convinced I'm not a vampire either,-correct? Their eyes lock; a moment passes. Then finally:
Yes. Jerry smiles at him and the tension suddenly flows out of the room. Billy even smiles. Jerry steps forward, usher- ing them all toward the portico.
Well, I'm glad that's all.settled.
I can't tell you how much I. appreciate this, Mr. Vincent. You've been a great help.
Not at all, Mr. Dandrige. Glad to be of service. Jerry ignores Charley, turning to Amy and Evil Ed as Peter steps back, reaching into his coat pocket for his cigarette case.
It's been very nice meeting both of you. Please, feel free to drop by anytime. (his eyes singling out Amy and.burning into her) You'll always be welcome.
 I'd, I'd like that, Mr. Dandrige.
Please, call me Jerry. Her face is beginning to stiffen, her eyes turning blank. Charley looks at her in sudden alarm, remembering the girl he saw through the window that night. He grabs Amy by the arm, tugging. her toward the door.
C'mon, let's get out of here --
(pulling away from him, her gaze never
Just a minute, Charley -- Smiling, Jerry turns to Evil Ed as behind them all Peter opens his cigarette case, takes out a smoke, about to tamp it down on a thumbnail when he glances at the mirror on the inside of the-lid. He sees Amy, Evil Ed, and Charley grouped around where Jerry Dandrige should be standing, but he's not there. It's as though the kids are talking to thin air.
The same goes for you,.Ed I suspect we have many of the same interests. You know, in such things as horror movies and the occult. Peter's head jerks up and he looks at the doorway. Now he sees Jerry standing there, talking to the kids. Peter
Something wrong, Mr. Vincent? Peter hurriedly scoops up the case, trying to hide his shaking hands and keep the tremor out of his voice.
No, no, just my clumsiness. Come along, we must be going. Thank you again, Mr. Dandrige He ushers the teenagers out the front door as Jerry watches, puzzled by his sudden change in attitude.
What's wrong with you?
Nothing. He stops by his car, fumbling his keys-out of his pocket, hardly able to fit them into the lock with his trembling hands.
Then why are your hands shaking?
 They're- not shaking. Be finally gets the door open, hurriedly sliding in behind the wheel, slamming the door behind them. Charley leans down, speaking through the partially open window.
You saw something in there, didn't you, something that convinced you he was a vampire?
Will you be quiet.
Is Jerry Dandrige a vampire or not?
 No, of course not.
Please, Mr. Vincent, you have to tell me. Our lives depend on it.
All right. He didn't cast a reflection in my mirror. Satisfied now?
Mr. Vincent, you have to call the Polic e-and tell them -- The-ENGINE finally CATCHES, and he ROARS away in a cloud of burning rubber, Charley watching him go, half frustrated to death.
 I could teach her so much --
What?
Nothing. Jerry turns away from the window, sits at the foot of the stairs.
 Well, at least they'll never believe the kid now. Jerry glances down and sees a sliver of mirror from Peter's cracked cigarette case at his feet. He picks it up, examining it. He casts no reflection in it. He holds it up for Billy to see.
No?
 Well, at least you two heard him.
Probably just a trick of the light.
 You felt how evil Dandrige was, didn't you, Amy? Remember the way he looked at you?
(confused by the
Yes, sort of --
 Oh, for Christ sake --
Where are you going?
Rome. It's dinner time.
Wait a minute. We walk Amy home first.
Why?
Because it's after dark, pencil.dick, and there's a vampire back there! Be points back at the Dandrige house. Evil Ed just stares at him.
Oh, shit, Brewster, you're certifiable, you know that.
pk Rev. 11/16/84
They all start down the street together again; growing smaller and smaller until they disappear into the darkness.
There are several tall buildings around, not many but enough. Street lamps cast pools of bright light and deep shadows everywhere. There are a few pedestrians out, a few cars passing by, but once again, not many. The three kids walk down the street. Evil Ed stops before the open mouth to a shadow encrusted alleyway.
.Let's cut through here.
No way. We want people and lights, the more the better.
Look, Brewster, vampires don't exist. Haven't you gotten that through your thick head yet?
What if you're wrong, Evil? What if Dandrige is a vampire and he thinks you know it. Would you walk down that alley then? The hair on the back of Evil Ed's neck starts to stand on end. Then he denies it.
Aw, fuck you, Brewster. He takes a step toward the alley. Charley grabs him.
Ed, please, just stick with us.
Forget it. You may be chickenshit, but I'm not. He disappears down the alley into the darkness. Amy and Charley stare after him. She turns to Charley.
What do we ' do?..
Let him go. No vampire's gonna want hint anyway.. Probably give him blood poisoning. They're about to turn away when a blood curdling SCREAM ECHOES out of the darkness of the alleyway. It's Evil Ed. Charley and Amy dash headlong into the alley after him.
Where is he? Amy spots him laying crumpled against a wall.
Over here.
Ed, Ed, are you all right? Nothing from Evil Ed. Charley looks at Amy.
Jesus, I warned him -- Evil Ed's eyes suddenly snap open, staring up wildly at Charley.
He got me, Charley. He bit me. (grabbing him by
You know what you're gonna have to do, don't you? (as Charley shakes his head, really scared) Kill me, Charley. Kill me before I turn into a vampire and -- He suddenly heaves himself.at Charley, his mouth opening, going for his throat as Charley jerks back, terrified.
Give you a hickey! He suddenly lets Charley go, rolling on the pavement and laughing like a maniac, perfectly all tight. Charley springs to his feet, furious with him.
You asshole, you fucking asshole! Evil Ed rolls on the ground in hysterics, pointing at him, and laughing loudly.
Ha, hah, really fooled you. (climbing to his feet and dusting
You really believed me, you poor dope!
 You'll get yours someday, Evil. He grabs Amy's hand and walks back down the alley toward the street and the lights. Evil Ed yells after him.
Charley, Amy, that you? He hears nothing but those FOOTSTEPS GETTING CLOSER.and CLOSER. The fear starts to work at him, twisting up his gut and making his forehead sheen with sweat. He steps forward, yelling out with false bravery.
If that's. you, it isn't working. I'm not scared! And then Jerry emerges out of the shadows, smiling at him. With a scream, Evil Ed turns and runs.
No, no -- The FOOTSTEPS SUDDENLY STOP. Nothing but silence. The seconds tick past. He takes a step away from the wall, peering into the darkness with something like hope, preying that maybe, just maybe, Dandrige has given up. A voice suddenly whispers in his ear, no more than an inch away.
Hello, .Edward. Evil Ed turns with a scream to find Jerry standing right next to him. Almost insane with fear now, slobbering like a wounded animal, he backs away from the shadowy figure, hitting the corner and sliding to the cold pavement, almost curled up in a fetal ball, tears streaming from his eyes. Dandrige walks over to him, staring down with something like pity in his eyes.
You have nothing to fear from me.  I understand what it's like, being different. Only they won't make fun of you anymore or beat you up. I'll see to that. All you have to do is take my hand. Evil Ed slowly looks up at him through his tear-stained eyes to see Jerry staring-down at him, his. hand outstretch- ed to.him, a slight smile on his face, gentle, seductive, beguiling.
Here, Edward, take my hand. Evil Ed looks down at the hand outstretched to him.
It's beautiful, perfectly shaped with thin, elegant fingers, almost womanly, the nails impossibly long, perfectly shapped, tapering to five gleaming, razor sharp points. Evil Ed slowly reaches out and-takes the vampire's hand. Jerry smiles down at him and slowly leans down, lifting him up into the last embrace Edward Thompson will ever know.
How much further?
About ten minutes -- A DEATH RATTLE, long and-high-pitched, suddenly comes to them, ECHOING through the city streets, down alleyways and across apartment buildings, faint yet filled with so much terror it stops them in their tracks and leaves them staring fearfully about at the shadows.
What was that?
Evil Ed messing around.
They start down the street again, Charley glancing nervously over his. shoulder in the direction of Evil Ed's scream.
Amy, what if Evil really was in trouble?
Oh, come on, Charley, don't let him suck you in again -- All the street lights suddenly go out, plunging them into almost total blackness.
They whirl, looking back down the now totally dark street, slowly backing away from the darkness.
(to Army, in a
Don't tell me it's a power outage.
I think we lost him.
Yeah. (stopping and turning
Charley, you were right about the holy water. We faked it. I'm just sorry I didn't believe you.
It's all right, Amy. He kisses her, takes her hand, and they start walking up the bridge.
We've got it made And they freeze.' There, high above them on one of the arches of the bridge, so high up no one could possibly get there unless they flew, stands Jerry Dandrige, staring down at them. With a scream, they whirl, racing off the bridge and down the street.
They suddenly turn the corner only to find they are facing Jerry Dandrige, standing on the sidewalk directly in front of them, amused by the frozen expressions of horror on their faces.
Run? He grabs Amy's hand, the two of them whirling and dis- appearing around the street corner.
Over here --
Charley dives for it, dragging Amy after him just as Jerry appears. around the corner behind them, walking toward then with a steady gait, relaxed, in no great hurry, a hunter sure of his kill. Charley and Amy fight their way through the crowd until they reach the front door. A BOUNCER stands there, check- ing I.D.s and collecting the cover charge. He hardly looks down as Amy and Charley step up.
Five bucks apiece. Charley frantically searches his pockets and comes up with change and nothing else. Amy pulls out a ten dollar bill and hands it to him.
I've got it -- As Charley takes it from her, he glances over her shoulder and sees Jerry moving through the crowd toward them. He shoves the money at the Bouncer hurriedly.
The man takes it and Charley grabs Amy, pulling her toward the door, watching over his shoulder as Jerry keeps coming closer and closer toward them. Suddenly the Bouncer reaches out and collars Charley'.
Hey, just a sec. How old are you two?
(lying through his
Eighteen.
Let me see some I.D. Charley glances back. Jerry is just an arm's length away now. A MAN suddenly shoulders him aside just as he's about to grab Charley and Amy.
Hey, wait you turn. Jerry turns and stares at the man. Whatever the man sees in Jerry's eyes gives him the,cold sweats and.he backs hurriedly away.
Charley grabs Amy, using the moment to pull her away from the door and Jerry. The Bouncer shouts after them, holding up the ten spot.
Hey, what about your.money? Charley and Amy come out of the crowd, backing away from the door just as Jerry emerges, stepping after them. He's only ten feet away now, smiling as he approaches, both kids realizing it's hopeless to run at this point. Backing away, Charley and Amy cross the mouth of an alley. There's the CRASH OF A GARBAGE PAIL and Charley glances down the alley to see a dish washer from the club dumping garbage, the bright lights of the door into the kitchen shining like a beacon in the night. Charley grabs Amy's hand and jerks her down the alley after him as he races for the door.
 Hey, you can't go in there!
At the corner of the dance floor, the cook can be seen ges- turing to the bouncer, pointing in the direction the two kids took.
Who are you calling?
Who is it?
Me, Evil Ed.
What do you want?
There's a vampire out here. Let me in. Peter slips the cross into his pocket and unlocks the door. Be pulls Evil Ed into the room, hurriedly locking and bar- ring the door behind him. Evil Ed has changed, and not for the better. His skin is more sallow, huge dark circles under his eyes, his lips bloodless, his collar pulled up tightly around his neck. Peter turns to him.
What are we going-to do?
What are you going to do, not me. Peter stares at him as Evil Ed slowly reaches up and pulls down the collar of his shirt, revealing two small puncture marks on his throat. Peter's eyes widen in horror; Evil Ed's smile only grows wider.
I used to admire you, you know that. Of course, that was before I found out what a fake you were.
He advances on Peter, looming over him, Peter staring up at the boy in growing terror. Evil. Ed smiles at him, reveal- ing two huge fangs. Peter leaps out of the chair, dashing for the door, fumbling to undo the locks and bars with trembling fingers. Evil Ed watches, his rictus grin just growing wider.
Peter Vincent, the great vampire killer, indeed! He throws himself at Peter, grabbing him from behind and whirling him about, opening his mouth wide to sink his fangs into him. Peter straightens, grabbing the cross from his pocket and thrusting it directly into Evil Ed's face, slamming it into his forehead between his eyes. His skin sizzles and cracks, smoke rising, and Evil Ed backs away, bent over screaming in pain, his hands held to his face. He slowly looks up as Peter watches, frozen in horror. Evil Ed drops his hands from his face, revealing a smoking sign of the cross branded into his forehead. He stares at Peter.
What have you done to me? He turns to look into the wall mirror, but there's no re- flection.for him to see. He whirls on Peter, screaming at him like the spoiled brat he is.
What have you done to me? He takes a step toward Peter and Peter thrusts the cross at him.
Back.
The master will kill you for this. And not fast, slowly, oh, so slowly -- Peter advances on him, the cross held out in front of him with shaking hands, backing Evil Ed across the room toward the window.
Back, I say, back --
Evil Ed snarls at him. like some trapped feral animal and suddenly whirls-, throwing himself headlong out the window in an EXPLOSION OF SHATTERING GLASS. Peter rushes to the window, staring out at the street below. Nothing. He cranes his-'neck peering at the heavens above. Nothing. He draws his head back in, leaning against.the wall, gasping for breath, on hand on his heart, feeling it about to leap out of his chest with the horror of it all.
He doesn't believe me.
 I'm scared, Charley. I'm real scared.
I won't let him get you, Amy. I promise.
We haven't got a chance, Charley. Not the two of us against him! What about your mother? Call her.
She can't handle this, Amy.
Oh, Charley, he doesn't care about us, I paid him to be there today.
We don't have-any choice, Amy. Now give me his number. She reluctantly digs a scrap of paper out of her pocket as Charley drops another dime.
(a growl of inhuman
What? His hand snaps out, grabbing Evil Ed and jerking hin for- ward into the spill of light from the overhead street lamp. ' The sign of the cross is clearly seen on his forehead. Jerry stares at it in revulsion.
What is that?
Fool! He slams him back into the seat with so much force the crossbar that holds it in'place.bends.
C'mon; Mr, Vincent, answer, please, answer. Unseen by either of them, Jerry Dandrige sweeps through the front door of the club, moving like a god among mere mor- tals, his eyes, now glowing a faint red, sweeping the crowd of dancers as he moves toward the dance floor.
Answer me, damnit, answer me -- Behind him Amy stiffens, staring out onto the dance floor at the sea of people. Moving through the dancers like a golden god moving amid mere mortals walks Jerry Dandrige. The hot, colored lights of the dance floor highlight his hair, accentuating his gracefulness, making him seem even more beautiful than he is. He stops just at the edge of the floor and holds his hand out to Amy, the orgiastic dancing swirling on behind him, the pounding, SENSUAL BEAT OF THE FUNK ROCK washing over them both. His eyes burn into hers, willing her to come to him. Terrified, she turns back toward Charley. In that moment Jerry disappears from the mouth of the hallway, Amy turn- ing back just as she's about to grab Charley only to see he's gone. She stops, more intrigued than frightened, the image of that beautiful man holding out his hand to her sharp in her mind. She takes a step forward down the hall, continuing down the hall until she has a clear view of the dancers. Jerry's nowhere to be seen. Behind her., . Charley is just about to turn and glance. in her direction when a voice answers on the other end of the line.
Yes. Charley cups one hand over his ear, bending dawn to hear better. Behind hint Amy slowly disappears down the hall- way and onto the dance floor.
Mr. Vincent, this is Charley Brewster. You gotta help us. Jerry Dandrige has me and Amy trapped in this club --
I'm sorry, Charley. I-can't do that.
You have to understand, Charley. Ed's one of them now. He just tried to kill me. If I try to go out he'll kill me for sure.
If you don'"t, Dandrige'll kill us! He's so into what he's saying on the phone, he doesn't even realize Amy's gone.
God damn him. He-won't help us -- -Only Amy is gone, the hallway empty. Charley rushes toward the dance floor.
In another part of the bar area Charley moves among the people, desperately searching for Amy. He passes the drunken teenagers, ignoring them as he suddenly bumps into a table, a man yelling up at hiXi angrily.
Hey, watch out,.asshole! Charley glances down to see the table of users grouped around their mirror of white powder. He moves quickly away, searching for Amy. He stops by the wall of poseurs cruising everything that walks by, asking a girl that looks from behind as though she must be Amy's age.
Pardon me, have you seen a girl,
The girl turns to him,. revealing herself as a woman well into her mid-forties, decked out like a teenager, Sylvia Miles ten years ago, staring at him hungrily.
Forget her, take me instead She reaches out to kiss Charley and he flees the crowd of flesh.watchers laughing at him as he goes. He moves along a wall of LESBIANS, stopping one, his des- peration growing.
I'm looking for a girl --
So am I. Before Charley can recover a woman moves into her arms, Charley, shocked and disconcerted, backing away until he bumps to a halt against a heavy metal biker, the kind of guy who's into Twisted Sister. The parody of biker throws him to the floor for the insult, his friends, walking par- odies of bikers, laughing at Charley as he leaps to his feet and backs away into the crowd. He breaks free of the packed humanity, stopping on the stairs. It is at that moment that he catches a glimpse of Amy on the dance floor, dancing with Jerry. He hurries down the stairs and onto the floor. On the dance floor, Amy moves.with Jerry, their bodies locked together, slowly falling. into his eyes, dancing slower and slower with him until finally she has no will left of her own. She is "in love" with him. It is at that moment that she bends her head forward, laying it on his shoulder, exposing her neck to him, her eyes staring at the wall as they revolve around and around, Jerry bending down to kiss her neck, his mouth slowly opening. It is at that moment Amy sees her reflection in the mirrors mounted against one wall;.she is dancing alone. Shocked back to her senses, she goes rigid in Jerry's arms, trying to pull away from him, screaming as the music and the dancers stop.
Charley! Across the dance floor, Charley hears her SCREAM and pushes his way through the sea of humanity, fighting his way to her side where she stands with Jerry, once again caught in his eyes, slowly losing her will. Charley grabs Jerry by the shoulder, trying to pull him away from Amy.
Let her go! Jerry looks down at him, smiling, mocking him as Amy sways in his arms, her eyes locked on. his face.
What's wrong, Charley? Jealous? He grinds his pelvis against.Amy, dry humping her in front of Charley. She throws her head back, her mouth opening in .something close to ecstasy, her eyes glazed, staring up at him with adoration, giving herself to him as she cocks her head to one side, exposing her tender young throat. Charley goes crazy.
You filthy son-of-a-bitch -- ! He swings at him only to have Jerry release Amy, catching Charley's fist in the palm of his hand easily. Be stares down at the boy, smiling cruelly.
You shouldn't lose your temper, Charley. It isn't polite. He tightens his grip, slowly squeezing Charley's fist. You can almost hear the knuckle bones grinding as Charley's face'contorts in agony, driving him to his knees before Jerry. Charley looks up at him, tears of pain streaming down his face.
 You can't kill me here --
I don't want to kill you, Charley. I -want you to bring Peter Vincent to my house, just the two of you. That is if you ever want to see Amy again. He casually releases Charley, letting the boy drop to the floor as he disappears with Amy into the swirling mass of dancers. Charley leaps to his feet, ignoring the pain in his hand and plunges after them. Charley breaks free of the swirl near the bar, looking everywhere and not seeing either of them. Suddenly he's grabbed by a strong, pair of arms. He looks up to find himself staring into the face of a huge, black BOUNCER.
Hey, Donny, this the one? Another huge bouncer, the one the cook talked to when Charley and Amy sneaked into the club, steps out of the whirl staring down at the boy.
Yeah, its him.
That's her, over there with that older
C' mon .-- He cuts across the floor on a diagonal to intercept Jerry and Amy, the black bouncer dragging Charley after him in a steel 'grip. Jerry finally reaches the throng near the front door, starting to move through it with Amy when sud- denly the two bouncers and Charley block his way. Donny jerks Amy out of Jerry's hand, passing her to the black bouncer, nodding at her and Charley.
Get the two of them out of here. Jerry steps toward Amy, his face beginning to darken with rage, the MUSIC pulsating around them, people swirling by on all sides.
She's mine -- Donny puts out his hand, stopping Jerry as the black bouncer drag's Charley and Amy toward the front door.
You want chicken, man, you. go to some other club. Jerry snarls, his eyes beginning to glow, his hair slicking back slightly, the hint of fangs beginning to protrude over his upper lip as rage overtakes him. He raises his right hand, holding it out in.front of. the bouncer's face so the man can clearly see what is happening. The nails on the four fingers pop out, literally elongating several inches in front of the man's eyes, growing into razor sharp claws that sparkle in the overhead lights. The bouncer, terrified, screams for his'companion.
Hey, Leon, get back here! Toward the entrance to' the club, Leon releases Charley and Amy, hustling back toward his buddy. Charley grabs Amy,' pulling her toward the door.
C'mon, quick -- But it's. too late already. Donny screams as the talons whistle through the air, tearing his throat out in one swipe, scattering blood everywhere, blinding several of the dancers swirling.by, hitting people drinking at the bar, a couple necking in a corner, blood flying everywhere. Jerry steps around the corpse as it topples backward over a table of coke users, the bouncer's dead eyes staring up at them. Leon dashes up, - lunging for Jerry. The vampire's hand snaps out, grabbing`him by the throat, squeezing, driving those claws deep into the man's neck, holding him like a chicken, enjoying a second of his death throes and then casually flinging him into the center of the floor, bringing the music and all the dancing to a shrieking halt as this new group of people stare at another dead body.
Pandemonium erupts throughout the club, people screaming and rushing for the exit, the fear contagious, all of them streaming toward the bottleneck of a hallway leading to the front door, turning it into a battleground of panicked, terrified people, clawing and screaming to get out of the club. - Close to the front door, Charley and Amy fight their way through the madness, trying to gain the outside and freedom as behind them a wave of panicked humanity sweeps toward them.
Hold on to me -- Suddenly Jerry steps out in front of them and sweeps Amy away from. him, the crowd flowing around Charley and carry- ing him off in the opposite direction as he fights and screams to get back to her.
But the sea of humanity is too much for him; it pushes him ,first away from and then toward the front door, leaving him no choice but to go with it or be trampled.
There's a KNOCK at the door. Be looks up, terrified.
Who is it?
Charley Brewster. Let me in.
Are you one of them, too?
What are you talking about? Peter thrusts his cross out through the crack.'
Here, grab this. Charley does as told. Peter peers at his hand. No smoke. He hurriedly slips the chain from the door and pulls the boy inside.
What are you, doing?
Leaving.
You can't.
Wanna bet? Watch me. Peter closes the suitcase, hurrying for the door. Charley steps in front of him, blocking his path.
Dandrige has Amy. He says he'll kill her unless we come to his house. Peter stops, staring at Charley, stunned. The blood drains from his face.
Oh, my God.
for the phone) The police, I'll call the police --
 No, they won't believe you. I've tried.
'Peter collapses in a chair, staring blindly ahead.
I can't. I was paid to be there today.
I know.
And you still want me to help you?
Yes. You're Peter Vincent, the Great Vampire Killer.
(looking up at him,
That's a character in a movie, .Charley. That's not even my real name!  And I'm terrified, I'm sorry, but I am.
I can't do it alone, Peter. If you don't help, Amy's going to die. And me, too, probably. r Please, Peter.
I'm sorry, Charley.
(quietly, of ter a
Yeah, me, too. He walks to the door, slipping quietly out of the apart- ment, leaving Peter staring miserable at the floor.
Where am I?
Where you wanted to be. In bedroom. He reaches out a hand to her; she cowers back.
Liar. Where's Charley?
You don't really care. He hits play on the TAPE DECK. FUNK ROCK, hot and driving, snakes out of the speakers. He turns back to her, holding out his hand. She looks away, then glances up only to find herself trapped in his gaze. He starts.to weave his way across the floor toward her,. every move a suggestion, an invitation, all of it somehow hypnotic. She stares at him, fighting to break free. Finally she manages to turn her head away, staring at the floor, screaming at him.
Liarl I love him... It doesn't faze him; he just keeps moving to the beat, slowly, oh, so slowly, coming closer and closer to where she sits on the floor, his voice stroking her as he comes.
Am I lying, Amy? He stops above her, leaning down, his voice a husky, post- coital whisper.
Am I? And she's gone, his eyes drawing her in and swallowing her up, drowning her in their faint red glow. He holds out his hand to her. She slowly takes it and-he raises her up into his arms, moving in place to the MUSIC with her, smiling down as she stares up at him blindly. He gently pushes her head down on his shoulder, exposing her tender young neck. And then he slowly bends down, his mouth opening to expose those two, razor sharp fangs with their alabaster cast, slowly, delicately sliding them beneath her skin.
Her body arches, both arms pressing him to her, her body clinging to his. And then she screams, bucking under him like she's having something like a sexual climax, only better, much better. And just underneath her scream.is this horrid, greedy, SUCKING NOISE, Jerry Dandrige, feeding.
Peter Vincent, ready to do battle with the undead. Charley whirls to find himself staring into Peter Vincent's drawn face. He wears his Victorian suit, his whole demeanor that of his public persona, the vampire killer.
 I am serious. Ee drops to his knees, pulling an assortment of his movie props out of his leather bag.
Let's see, stakes, hammer, crosses,
What about Billy Cole? What's going to stop him? Peter rises, holding up a pistol.
This. From Orgy of the Damned.
What if he's not human? Bullets aren't going to stop him then.
He walks around during the day, doesn't he?
Let's go. The two of them cross the street, heading toward the house which now seems to be staring at them, about to charge them. Charley glances at Peter.
 Not now. But Peter isn't really paying attention to Charley. His eyes are on that malevolent looking house, the house looming larger and larger above him as they get closer and closer. Peter begins to slow, his nerve draining away as the true- evilness of the. place begins to eat at him. He finally comes to a halt, staring at the house. Charley stops, looking. back.
What's wrong?
. Nothing, nothing at all.
He joins Charley, the two of them slowly walking toward the house again, Peter becoming more and more nervous the closer they get. Charley takes a step for the front door. Peter grabs him.
Are you crazy? Not through the front door. Let's go around to the back and sneak in The front door slowly swings open on creaking hinges, seemingly of its own accord. Peter and Charley turn to look at it, a dark gaping hole like an open mouth, ready to swallow them.
Too late. Be starts moving up the porch toward the door. Peter moves with him, his gaze fixed on that gaping mouth of an open doorway, mumbling to himself as he goes.
I'm Peter Vincent, the great vampire killer. I'm -- They disappear into the house, Jerry Dandrige suddenly .stepping INTO FRAME, staring after them.
This way. They start up the stairway.
pk Rev. ll/I6/84
Did you just hear something?
 No. They start up the stairway. Peter grabs Charley again, digging his fingers into the boy's arms, listening hard.
Let's wait until dawn. He'll be in his coffin then. We'll have a better chance of getting Amy.
Amy'll be dead by then, too. Now
He turns to start up the stairs- only to have a voice come out of the darkness on the landing above. JERRY (he steps forward into the light, looking
Welcome to Fright Night. For Real._ Peter almost turns tail and runs right there. Charley grabs him, holding him in place on the staircase, staring up at the vampire looming above them.
Where's Amy?
He starts. down the steps. Peter whips out one of the crosses, thrusting it at the vampire.
(in his vampire killer
Back, spawn of Satan.
Oh, really? He reaches out, takes the cross. from Peter's hand and crumples it, contemptuously tossing. it aside. Be turns back to Peter.
You have to have faith in order for it to work on me, Mr. Vincent. He starts down the stairs again, Peter backing away, terrified, his nerve completely gone now. Charley steps forward, staring up at Dandrige defiantly. He whips out his cross, thrusting it at the vampire.
Stop! Jerry stops, staring at the cross. Charley starts up the stairs toward him, the cross held in front of him.
Jerry backs up the stairs, away from the cross, disappearing into the darkness at the top of the landing. Charley glances back at Peter triumphantly.
We're gonna make.it -- Billy Cole suddenly steps out of the darkness in front of him, rips the cross from the boy's hand and viciously backhands him across the face. With a scream, Charley smashes through the. stairway railing, plunging to the hallway floor below. He lands with a solid thud, lying there, groaning. Jerry steps in front of Billy, staring down at Peter on the stairway, smiling at him. Then he slowly starts down the stairs toward Peter. With a scream, the actor whirls, racing down the steps and out the front door.
Mrs. Brewster! No answer. He grabs the phone from the table and punches out a number, speaking hurriedly into it.
Hello, operator, get me the police. Operator? No response, not even a dial tone. He holds the phone up only to see the cord has been ripped from the wall. His eyes widen in horror, his gaze snapping back up the stairs. PETER Mrs. Brewster -- He plunges up the stairs.
Mrs. Brewster, thank God. All the phones have been ripped from the
Be reaches out, turning her over on the bed to face him... only it isn't Judy; it's Evil Ed, wearing one of her wigs.
I know. I did it. He grins up at Peter as he.-slowly rises, the wig slipping from his head, his features already transformed subtly into those of a vampire, the hair slicked back on his head, his face elongated, two huge white fangs slashing over his lower lip. Peter staggers back, staring at him in horror.
Where's Charley's mother?
She's working nights apparently. She left - a note for Charley. (holding out the crumpled note as he takes a step
His dinner's in the oven. With a scream, Peter whirls and plunges out of the room.
He suddenly hears a GROWLING, low and deep and vicious, coming from the other end of the hallway. He looks up, .staring into the darkness. Suddenly, a HUGE WOLF, as ugly as Evil Ed, tears out of the master bedroom, skidding to a halt, staring back at Peter. It's eyes glow like red-hot coals in the dark, saliva drip- ping from its huge fangs. Peter scrambles to his feet, about to plunge down the stairs when with a terrible SNARL, the huge animal bounds down the hall toward him. With a scream, Peter picks up a splintered leg of the table just as the wolf launches itself into the air toward his jugular vein.
He slams the jagged piece of wood into the animal's chest as it flies past, its snapping jaws missing his throat by an inch, the wolf hits the landing railing and plows through it, almost in slow motion, plunging over the side.
He dies, Peter staring down at him, sorrow struck by the waste and horridness of it all..
You wanted her, there she is. Charley glances to his side, sees Amy lying there, and crawls to her. He gently turns her toward'him.
His words die on his lips. Amy's eyes are clenched shut, her face drenched with sweat, her entire body trembling. Jerry .watches his horrified reaction, smiling.
You see, you gave me so much trouble, I thought you deserved a special punishment.
(staring up at him
What have you done to her?
Nothing much. I just bit her a little bit, that's all. Jerry just stares-at him silently, leaving no room for the boy to disbelieve him. Charley suddenly leaps for him, furious with rage.
You bastard! .Jerry casually knocks him aside, flinging him through the air against the far wall with his incredible strength. Charley crumples to the floor, stunned. Jerry walks over to him and drops a wooden stake at his feet.
Here. (Charley stares at
You're going to need it just before dawn. - - With a bow he lets himself out of the room, closing the door behind him. The key can be heard turning in the lack. Charley stares around for a moment, gathering his senses. He sees the window has been boarded up with plank after plank and nail after nail. It would be impossible for him to rip it apart, just as it would be impossible for anyone to-hear him through.it were he to scream. He crawls to Amy, gently turning her over only to see that she has already begun to change, her upper lip slipping back as he stares at her, revealing lengthening bicuspids, the beginnings of fangs. Her eyes are black, like bottom- less pits. He raises his head and screams, his voice filled with anguish and despair.
No!
Charley.
 Peter? PETER I'm going to have to break the door down. Make as much noise as you can. Charley turns to the wall, beating on it and yelling for all he's worth.
Help, let me out!
I think she just opened her eyes.
Quick, grab her and let's get out of
We can't. Look. He falls to his knees beside Amy and rolls her over for Peter to see. She is still covered with sweat and trembling even more violently now. Her upper lip slips back revealing lengthening fangs, just the beginning of
Something wrong? '
Yes. We have a visitor. He puts down his shovel, heading for the stairs, Billy following him.
Is it too late to save her?
Not if we kill Dandrige before dawn.'
Are you sure?
So far everything's just like in the movies. We'll just have to keep on hoping. And the CAMERA STOPS outside the bedroom window, watch- ing as Charley grabs the stake Dandrige dropped on the floor, and heads for. the door.
Let's go -- He and Peter hurry out the door, the CAMERA WATCHING them go.
Well, what do we have here? He starts up the steps. Peter :pulls a pistol, one of the props from his apartment, from-his pocket.
Stop or I'll shoot. Billy stops, still smiling at him,. their eyes locked for what seems like an eternity. Then Billy starts up the stairs toward him again. Peter points the gun at Billy with trembling hands.
I mean it. Don't force me to
Billy reaches out his huge hands for Peter's throat. Peter FIRES, the bullet punching a neat hole through Billy's forehead. The large man freezes, his eyes rolling back in his skull. Be stands there for a moment and then tumbles backward down the stairs, landing with a CRASH at the bottom. Suddenly there is the SOUND OF APPROACHING FOOTSTEPS on the balcony above. Peter and Charley whirl, staring up at the landing above them. A second later Jerry Dandrige steps out of the shadows. With a smile he starts down the stairs toward them. Charley steps forward, thrusting his cross up at Dandrige.
Dandrige freezes, his face darkening with fury. Charley starts up the steps, Peter close behind him.
Come on, we have him -- Dandrige's gaze snaps past Charley's shoulder, down into the shadows at the bottom of the stairs where Billy's body lies, his eyes glowing as they burn into the corpse for a moment before shifting back to Charley and Peter. He smiles at the boy.
Do you? He steps back into Amy's room, disappearing from sight. Peter looks at Charley.
What did he mean?
Nothing. He's just bluffing. Charley continues up the stairs-slowly, the cross held out in front of him, Peter hugging his back. Behind them, down at the foot of the stairs,,Billy slowly sits up. Peter and Charley continue climbing, their gazes fixed ahead. Behind them Billy stands and starts to walk up the stairs toward them, the first STEP he hits GROANING under his heavy weight. Charley and Peter freeze, turning to look back. They see the huge man coming up the stairs toward them, a thin trail of blood leaking from the bullet hole in his forehead. Peter whips his pistol out with trembling hands and UNLOADS THE ENTIRE REVOLVER into the man, casting a pale of gunsmoke in front of him and Charley, obscuring their view of the stairway below. Suddenly Billy Cole appears through the thick cloud, back- ing them up the stairs. Peter stumbles, falling backward, .unable to rise in time. Billy leans down, grabbing him and jerking him into the air like a ragdoll.,. about to fling him over the ballustrade to the floor far below. Charley suddenly leaps forward, slamming his stake into the creature's heart.
No! Billy Cole freezes, his eyes widening. Be drops Peter crashing to the steps and staggers back, grabbing the rail for support, hanging there below Peter and Charley for what seems an eternity, the stake protruding from his heart.. As the two watch in horror, Cole's face slowly begins to dissolve, skin putrefying and slipping away, revealing the grinning skull beneath, the process of dissolution acceler- ating as the seconds tick past. Suddenly the legs turn to bone and.what remains of the body, no more than a skeleton in clothes now, tumbles backward down the stairs with a clatter, to land with a crash on the floor below, bones rolling in-every direction across the portico. They stare down the stairs at his remains.
 Be wasn't human.
No, he, certainly wasn't. Peter scrambles to his feet, he'and Charley backing hurriedly up the stairs, terrified by what they've seen. i 143 INT. AMY'S ROOM - NIGHT They rush into Amy's room, Peter stopping to stare at the open window, left that way by Dandrige when he entered and left. Charley ignores it, hurrying to Amy, and kneeling by her side. He gently turns her over to expose lengthening bicuspids as Peter sticks his head out the window. Her irises are now more red than before, signaling the trans- ition she is making from the living to the walking dead.
Peter! Peter ducks in just as Jerry's about to strike.
She's worse. C'mon, we're running out of time -- The two men rush out of the room.
Where is he? The CAMERA BEGINS TO DRIFT up the side of the house toward the attic window above.
He's in the attic. They rush to the attic door, the two men disappearing up the dark stairs.
Well, he was here -- The beam moves on, only to suddenly stop on a large chest shoved in a corner.
There, his-coffin. Both of them approach, staring down at the long chest. Peter hands the flashlight to Charley, pulling a stake from his pocket, a hammer from his belt. He raises the stake in the air, the hammer ready. He nods at the coffin.
Open i t. Charley throws his shoulder against the lid, heaving. The lid opens with a GROAN, Peter about to stab down only to find it empty.
 God' damn him. Where is he?
Well, now we know where he is.
Yeah, but what's he doing up there?
Amy, awake, I command you to awake!
Now show me how much you love me, Amy, kill them both! She rises and moves like a zombie messenger of death toward the door to the hallway and the attic above.
I'm going up there. He heads for the open window at the far end of the attic nearest the stairs.
He-takes a step after the boy, but he's too late. Charley is already out the window.
 Do you see him?
Where the hell is he? And in the window directly behind his back, Jerry rises up out of the dark, no more than a few feet away, only 'a thin pane of glass separating Peter from his clawed hand. He raises it to strike through the glass at Peter just as .Charley slides in the open window at the far end from the roof and sees Jerry in the window behind Peter.. He screams out.
Peter, behind you! Peter whirls, holding up his cross and as quickly as he appeared from the night, Jerry slips back into it, leaving Peter staring at the window, terrified at the close call as Charley reaches his' side.
You okay?
Peter nods numbly as a huge shadow rises up along the staircase wall at the far end of the attic behind them, a shadow that suggests Jerry is coming up the stairs from the floor below toward them. A STAIR CREAKS behind them and Charley and Peter whirl to see Amy step out of the stairwell. She looks incred- ibly beautiful as though somehow her moment with Dandrige has transformed her from virginal girl to a full grown woman, dripping with sensuality. Charley steps forward, about to rush into her arms.
Oh, my God -- Suddenly they hear Dandrige cruelly laughing at them from the floor below, laughing like this is the best joke he's ever heard..
He's downstairs now -- Amy suddenly launches herself at Charley, seizing.him by the throat and throwing him to the floor, landing on top of him. He grabs her by the shoulders, holding her back as she tries to plunge her fangs into his neck. Peter steps up behind her, a stake raised in his hands, about to plunge it into her back. Charley screams up at him.
No! Peter shifts his grip on the stake, holding it like a club, and brings it slamming down on her back. She collapses un- conscious on top of Charley. He shoves her off, climbing to his feet, and turning toward the staircase to the floor below.
Come on --
The two men plunge down the stairs. A second later, Amy rolls over, her eyes snapping open, perfectly conscious again. She slowly rises.
You take downstairs, I'll take up
Charley plunges down the stairs to the portico below as Peter disappears into the bedroom, searching for Dandrige.
Charley! Charley comes running down the hall, stopping at the bottom of the stairs, staring up at Peter..
What is it?
 I thought I heard something.
What? The CAMERA PASSES Jerry's bedroom window, catching a glimpse of Peter on the balcony just as he replies to Charley.
I don't know. Just my nerves, I guess.
Keep searching for him. Se's got to be close. It's almost dawn. Charley heads back down the hallway toward the basement as above on the landing, Peter stares around, about to try another door when suddenly the huge stained glass window directly behind and above him bursts apart in an EXPLOSION OF SHATTERING GLASS and Jerry Dandrige plunges in from the outside, landing in a crouch before Peter. He rises as the. older man backs away. Charley rushes down the hail back into the portico, brought by the sound of the crash. He's about to start up the stairs when Dandrige turns and stares down at him. Charley ignores him, starting up the stairs. Peter speaks to him, never taking his gaze from Dandrige.
Stay there, Charley -- Charley freezes, staring up at the vampire and the man above, watching, waiting. Dandrige's gaze bores into Peter.
So. Just the two of us at last.
He-takes a step for Peter. Peter whips out a cross, thrusting it at him. Dandrige stops, smiling at him. He starts for him again, Peter holding his ground, the cross thrust out in front of hiin.
Back!
Look over your shoulder. Dandrige cranes his neck to see the rising dawn through the open window, the sun beginning to glint its golden rays even as he stares at it. He turns back to Peter, roaring with fury.
No! Peter picks up his stake and dives for the vampire, Dandrige is too quick for him. He throws himself off the landing, tucking his body into a somersault as he hurls through the air toward the portico floor below, turning into a whirling ball of spinning flesh only to suddenly emerge- from it no longer a man, but now an enormous bat. The' bat straightens in midair above the portico and zooms down the hallway, smashing into Charley chest high, blowing him off his feet as his claws rake the boy, sending two bloody furrows down his chest as the bat whips past him and disappears down the hallway into the darkness.
Peter recovers above, hurrying down the stairs to the portico below. He rushes to Charley's side, helping the badly shaken boy to his feet.
Are you all right?
Yes. Amy begins POUNDING AT THE ATTIC DOOR. above again. The two men look up as it begins to splinter.
Quick, he's in the basement. He helps the boy. down the hall, the two of them disappear- ing through the basement door. A second later the attic DOOR above RIPS FROM ITS HINGES, CRASHING to the floor. Amy steps out of the attic, her eyes sightless, a stake grasped in her hand.' She walks like an automaton down the stairway toward the portico below..
Quick, his coffin has to be here
They race down the aisle continuing to rip dust covers away only to discover a line of mirrors, several of them obviously removed from pieces in the house above. They stop, staring at them.
Well, now we know what he did with the mirrors -- The DOOR to the stairway- CREAKS open behind them, lost somewhere in the dark. Peter whirls, looking back the way they just came.
What was that?
But Charley has disappeared into the darkness before Peter can stop him. Charley appears down the row of antiques, stopping at the foot of the stairs and staring up at.the basement door above. It is partially open, allowing just a sliver of light into the darkness. He calls out, clutching his stake nervously.
Who's there -- Amy appears out of the darkness behind him, slowly. approaching; her face deathly white, her lips blood red, her eyes almost glowing in the dark. He hears her at the last second, whirling to face her with a gasp. She reads the fear on his face and smiles sadly, reaching out a hand to him.
Don't be frightened, Charley. She takes a step closer and he steps away. Amy stops, staring at him; then she slowly begins to advance on him, unbuttoning her blouse, her voi ce a husky, purring whisper.
Charley, I love you -- (he backs away; she keeps coming closer, exposing more and more of her body) What's wrong, Charley, don't you want me anymore? He suddenly breaks her spell, coming to his senses and whip ping out his cross, thrusting it. in her face. She whirls away with a snarl, burying her face in her hands, softly beginning to weep.
It's not my fault, Charley. You promised you wouldn't let him get me, you promised.
He stares at her, guilt boiling up inside of him. He steps forward, touching her shoulder, letting the cross drop to his side.
She whirls, huge fangs flashing, dripping hungry saliva, and dives for his exposed throat. He whips the cross up, but'not in time, her forearm smashing into his wrist, sending the cross whirling away into the darkness. Amy straightens, smiling at him, the. huge fangs sparkling in the light from the open doorway above. -
Charley, I found it -- Back at the other end of the room, Charley is backing away from Amy as she slowly stalks him, the stake she picked up in the attic-in her hands. Charley yells back at Peter.
Get it open! She suddenly leaps for him, .stabbing with the stake only to miss him by inches, sending it plunging through the back of a chair with her growing strength, shattering it against the stone wall behind the chair. She turns on Charley, empty-handed now, continuing.to stalk him. Before-the dais, Peter stifles his revulsion of the rats and leaps forward, rushing to the side of the coffin and fumbling with the clasps only to discover they're locked. he cries out again..
He'_s locked it somehow from the inside.. He grabs a hammer from his pocket and starts pounding at the clasps, trying to free them while at the side of the room Charley continues to back away from Amy, calling back.
He goes to dodge Amy when she leaps forward, shoving a bureau across his path, blocking his escape. She smiles at him, continuing to back him into a corner.
Back at the coffin, the clasp finally comes loose beneath Peter's pounding and he moves to the next one, smashing at it with the hammer desperately. Back at the side of the room, Charley dodges Amy, leaping over a pile of refuse in his desperation to escape, the girl vampire diving after him, her fingers clawing into his back and shredding his shirt as he twists out of her grasp.
No! He desperately leaps around Amy, reaching for the blackout curtain covering the window at the back of the.dais. - She jumps after him, grabbing him just as his fingers close around the curtain. She pulls him to the floor, her mouth open, about to sink her fangs in him as the drape comes with him, tearing from the window and sending a huge bolt of sunlight streaming into the dank room.
it hits Jerry Dandrige squarely in the back, whirling him away from Peter, picking him up and throwing him across the room, slamming him into the far wall, pinning him there several feet above the floor. He writhes in the golden beam, twisting this way and that, but unable to escape as his body slowly begins to smoulder, a million small fires breaking out all over him as begins to burn.
She slowly opens her eyes, the girl he knew staring back at him, her fangs gone. She throws herself in his arms, weeping softly. He holds her close, staring across the room at Peter who sits beside the coffin, wiping Dandrige's. blood from his face and mouth with his handkerchief, nothing but silence in the room now, the sun shining mer- rily through the window, only a few wisps of charcoal floating lazily through the air to remind any of them what just happened.
And now, Fright Night, starring Peter Vincent.
This is Peter Vincent, once more back with you as host of Fright Night. I thought I'd let the vampires rest for a little while.  Right, Charley? (back into his host
Tonight the threat comes not from beyond the grave, but from beyond the stars as alien beings stalk an unwary summer camp in "MARS WANTS FLESH."
Charley, is something wrong? With a quizzical shake of his head, Charley slams the window shut and turns to her.
No, nothing. He jumps into bed with her,, the two of them beginning to make- love as the CAMERA PANS off them to the window, pushing out through the window closing in on Jerry's window across the way. A pair of red eyes stand there in the darkness, staring and staring as the CAMERA MOVES CLOSER AND CLOSER. They blink; . they're for real; there is another vampire out there and he is watching Charley.
