Still using matchlocks, are ya? I can get you a pair of flintlocks, you let me sneak out of here. Everyone else in this sequence speaks with a French accent.
The best. From Spain. And perhaps a couple of pretty young ladies to teach you how to use them. Guard #1 is even more tempted, but his partner is a Loyalist.
On yer feet, you Scottish pig.
James McCullen, you have been found guilty of treason for the sale of military arms to the enemies of our Lord King Louis XIII... even whilst you sold arms to our Lord himself.
Your King is a vile bag of filth who murders his own allies. I should've charged him double.
You tried to overthrow the Crown in conspiracy with its enemies!
They offered me a Chancellorship, because unlike your simpleton King, they know that is the McCullen destiny, to run the wars, the true power, not simply to supply arms.
Do you have anything else to say before the sentence is carried out?
Yes, I do. Clan McCullen is far bigger and more powerful than any of you could ever imagine. My sons will continue to rise along after I am gone. As will their sons. And, God willing, their sons.
Oh, we're not going to kill you, McCullen. We're going to make an example of you.
So that no man, woman, nor child may ever see your treacherous face again, you shall wear this mask for the term of your natural life. The mask closes around his face. The workers melt the lock. McCullen SCREAMS. AND WE PUSH IN on the RED SQUARE MEDALLION.
War used to be the exception. Now it is the new state of play, a constant, unavoidable...
Tragic as they are to fight, wars must be won. But perhaps they don't have to be as destructive as they've been in the past. A SERIES OF COMPLEX SCHEMATICS rolls continuously on a screen behind him. McCullen is briefing twenty-two NATO MILITARY COMMANDERS, many of them listening in TRANSLATION HEADPHONES.
Nano-mites. Perfect little soldiers. Their size can be programmed as well as their intended task. Originally developed to isolate and destroy cancer cells, but at Mars Industries, and with the help of a little NATO funding...
.we discovered how to program them to eliminate most anything. For instance... metal. ON SCREEN: A SOLDIER fires a shoulder-launched missile at a tank. The warhead bursts into millions of SILVER MICROSCOPIC NANO-MITES which eat away the metal like piranhas devouring a horse. Then the NANO-MITES fan out from the consumed tank and quickly head for a nearby jeep.
Once the target has been destroyed, the launcher triggers a kill switch unique to each warhead that short- circuits the nano-mites, preventing any unwanted destruction. ON SCREEN: The Soldier hits a KILL SWITCH on the launcher and the NANO-MITES instantly "drop dead" around the nearby jeep.
Each warhead contains seven million nano-mites and has the ability to eat anything from a single tank to an entire city.  But without innocent casualties. Which is why this has been such a priority for me and my company. The room breaks into APPLAUSE. FOCUSES ON GENERAL HAWK, a British veteran or countless battles, not buying it.
Guess you'll be the first arms dealer up for the Nobel Peace Prize. Laughter in the room. McCullen smiles, being a good sport.
I prefer the term "armament solutions engineer"  Gentlemen! I'm pleased to announce that tomorrow morning your first order of nanotech warheads will ship from my factory in Kyrgyzstan.
The hell's wrong with you, Stalworth, you didn't eat that Chicken A La King at chow did ya?
The mission, sir...
What about it? Another day, another run.
Never had anything to worry about before. Stalworth's shaky hand pulls a photo out and shows it to Duke: A YOUNG MOTHER with a NEWBORN in her arms.
Three weeks old. Be seeing him for the first time next leave. Duke looks at the picture, then at Stalworth. His eyes go distant thinking about his own past, then they harden again.
You're off the mission.
Sir?
That's what you want, right? Stalworth doesn't argue. Duke hands him back the photo.
If your head's with them, you're no good to me. Stalworth nods. Duke steps closer, now one mean s.o.b.
One thing, though: you step off this one, you're out of Special Forces. Gonna find you a nice desk and chair back at the base. You're be run of the mill. Regular.
I... I guess I can live with that.
Then you should. Stalworth nods, grabs his kit, and leaves. Duke's hard eyes watch him go, then a slight smile creases his lips ...
Mr McCullen, Clayton Aernathy, British Army.
 I know who you are General hawk. As sharp in a briefing room as your reputation is on the battlefield.
Not hardly ...You gave me a broad target, I couldn't resist.
It's an honor to meet a man of your many accomplishments. McCullen smiles, then offers Hawk to walk with him.
What's on your mind, General?
Your warheads. Securing them in transit. Forty pairs of ears in that room now know the when and where.
Those "ears" all have top security clearance.
We both know what that's worth.
Look, General, delivery is my responsibility and it's not one I take lightly. I had NATO assign an elite American Special Forces unit, a fully armored convoy with air support. I assure you, my warheads will be quite safe.
I've made a career of showing up where I'm needed, whether ordered to or not. And if your warheads are half as effective as you say they are.. Then my unit is needed.
This is no time to play catch up. The NATO team's been drilling for weeks. They're lit up and ready to roll.
My unit doesn't need mission specific training. They're chosen because of their ability to handle any situation.
Maybe next time, General...  What did you say your unit was called?
I didn't. I just said they were always ready. McCullen continues on down the hall. Hawk gives Cover Girl a look, she reads it and nods. WE SMASH CUT TO:
All right, listen up, the Cougars will be front and back, Grizzly in the middle carrying the package. Minimum distance at all times. Choppers will cover us overhead. The Lab Workers step up.
Not gonna explode, is it?
 They're not weaponized yet. And the kill switches are attached to the launchers. All the same, I'd avoid potholes if I were you. Ripcord stares, then quickly hand the case off to another soldier. Duke shoots him a look and Ripcord shrugs, what?
Why not stick it in a chopper and fly it out? If you want, I could--
--We have our orders. Okay, people! We're on the clock, let's move.
Duke gives Rip another look. Rip throws him a cheesy grin. The team mounts up. The weapons case to Grizzly. ENGINES ignite. HEADLIGHTS beam. And the convoy rolls out.
 Mother Goose, this is Bird Dog. We have the package and are on the dot to make Ganci Air Base ar 0900.
You know, I hate all the Mother Goose, bird Dog crap, I just wish they'd let us say, "Hey, Pete, it's Bill, see ya in a few."
Not me, I joined up for the jargon.
Just saying, you know, if I ran things...
Rip, if you ran the Army we'd stay up all night, fill our canteen with tequila, and call each other "Bro".
But we'd be badasses, right Bro?
 Yeah, we'd be badasses. Eyes on the road, Rip.
Hey Duke, ya know how they always tell you to empty your head of distracting thoughts on these runs?
Keep your eyes on the road, Rip.
And you know how people sometimes joke that it must be easy fr me to keep my mind empty?
Don't listen to 'em. you got plenty of thoughts up there.  Keep rear security tight, boys.
Well, the second I try and make myself not have thoughts, I always have 'em. Like now, know what I'm thinking about?
Please don't say the Air Forces.
The Air Forces.
I thought we were done with that discussion.
You were done with it, not me. Look, I loev flying... Duke "mouths" the following sentence as Ropcord says it:
I've been flying since I was thirteen years old. Ripcord shoots him a look. Duke just smiles.
I don't think your daddy's crop duster counts as hours logged.
Jets, man, jets. You know I always qualify when I'm on leave.
Yeah, yeah, look, you want to get up in the air, we'll get you a trampoline back at the base.
We've done ten years in the Army, I just think we should see if the grass really is greener.
This continues to be the stupidest idea you've ever come up with, nd that's saying something.
Funny. Real funny.
I don't wanna transfer to the Air Force, okay?
It's always about you, isn't it? Give me one good reason?
I want to be in the fight, not flying over it.
Won't be saying that when you call in an air strike and I come screaming in to save your--
--Eyes on the road, Rip.
Hey, on the training run weren't there herders around here? This puts Duke instantly on the alert.
Jesus Christ! Bird Down!
 Back up! Back up! Back up!  Mother Goose, this is Bird Dog. We are under attack. Repeat --we are under attack!
Out! Everyone get out of the vehicles! Now!
You okay?
Who the hell is that? Duke grabs Ripcord and starts dragging him out.
Duke now has Rip ver his shouders and is running like hell.
Duke?
Shut up.
If I die...
You're not gonna die.
I just want you to know... you never could run worth a damn.
Jesus, Rip.
I'm just saying, it's be nice if you could move a little faster. And that's when the Cougar blows, a concussive blast. Ana turns with the weapons case in time to see Duke and Rip go ass-over-teacups down into a ditch. She touches the stem of her glasses which ZOOM IN on Duke. DOWN IN THE DITCH: Duke rolls over and looks at Rip.
Stay here.
 Sure.
I'm gettin' that package. Duke leaps up and hauls-ass down the ditch, then crouch-runs up the embankment. --And comes face to face with a Viper, who raises his pulse rifle, about to blow Duke away. A hand clamps down over the barrel. The Viper looks at Ana beside him. Duke also looks at her, a flash of shocking recognition ripples across his face.
What the hell...? Her face softens hesitantly.
Hello, Duke... Then she round house kicks him with her boot across the face, knocks him out on his ass.
You have to admit you had that coming. Ana struggles with something going on inside her head. Then her face reluctantly hardens and she takes her hand off the first Viper's gun barrel, giving Duke an apologetic look.
Good-bye, Duke. Duke can't believe it. Ana suddenly glances up at something behind Duke. It's a "HOWLER" TRANSPORT rocketing onto the scene, its four-winged JET THRUSTERS rotating ninety degrees to slow it into a hover. Duke takes the opportunity to jump to his feet and lay out in the Viper. Ana turns and hauls- ass. A BLACK-CLAD FIGURE fast ropes down out of the Howler and lands behind a Viper and SNAPS his neck. Moving in a blur, he draws and buries a KATANA BLADE into another Viper. Then he glances at the last Viper who's lining up on him, too far away to reach with his sword. He quick-draws a GLOCK PISTOL. BAM! Right between the eye slit in his helmet. All this in the space of six breathless seconds. Duke glances at the almost mystical figure of SNAKE-EYES sheathing his sword on his back while holstering his smoking Glock. RED NINJA CLAN MARKING on his tri-cep. Bad-ass defined. Snake-Eyes leaps behind the Cougar wreck as a pulse burst just missed him. Duke immediately takes off after Ana, his eyes locked on the weapons case in her hands, PULSE BURSTS crackling past his head. He curses under his breath:
Air Force.. .right.
Time to lay down some bass! He fires a grenade and the Viper flies back OUT OF FRAME. You blink, you miss it. BOOM! The Typhoon fires at Heavy Duty, but the Howler is just as nimble, fires its LEFT-SIDE THRUSTERS which roll it onto its side. The CONCUSSION BLASTS whip past and decimate the forest behind it. Hanging awkwardly, Heavy Duty fires a double blast of hand grenades. The Typhoon's mini-gun quickly shoots them out of the air. The Howler fires MISSILES which hit the CONCUSSION CANNONS and rip them apart. The Typhoon SHAKES. Ana races for the recovering Typhoon. Duke races after her through a hail of pulse-fire and draws his PISTOL.
Ana! She whirls around, drawing the weapons case over her chest and face, using it as a shield. Duke hesitates, because of the warheads or Ana? Heavy Duty goes to shoot at her.
The warheads! Heavy Duty reluctantly doesn't shoot, everyone watching Ana backpedal towards the waiting Typhoon. Duke charges like a bull and tackles her. Ana sprawls and the case tumbles free. Duke and Ana go eye-to-eye for a split second, then Duke goes after the case while the Joes take the opportunity to spray gunfire her way. Ana zigs, zags, and dives into the Typhoon, which is raked by the bullets.
Stand down! Stand the hell down!
Lower your weapon, Sir. We're not the enemy.
Pointing weapons at me doesn't make you my friend. ABEL "BREAKER" SHAZ jumps out of the Howler wearing a computerized SURVEILLANCE SUIT, a French/Tunisian ACCENT:
Please hand over the case, sir.
I don't know who you are, and I sure as hell don't know who they are, and until I find out, I'm not lowering anything or handling anything over. CLICK-CLACK. They turn to see Ripcord shouldering a rifle.
What's your unit?
That's classified. Snake-Eyes discreetly grabs SHRUNKEN THROWING STARS from his belt, but a look from Scarlett makes him out them back.
Someone would like a word with you. Breaker sets a holo-projector on the ground in front of Duke, which projects a 3D IMAGE OF GENERAL HAWK. Duke is stunned.
State you name and rank.
.you first.
My team just saved your life. now's the part where you say "thank you".
Those aren't the words that come to mind just now. We weren't told about any support for this mission, so you better tell your team to stand down. Ripcord eyes his sight.
Happy to turn this into a turkey shoot. Someone OFF-PROJECTOR hands Hawk a file, he looks at it.
You must be... Ripcord, expert marksman, weapons specialist, jet
 Told ya.
I'm General Clayton Abernathy. You may have heard of me, .Duke. A glint of recognition flickers across Duke's eyes, he nods.
General hawk. Afghanistan, NATO Forward Command... Breaker sees his chance and gingerly steps up to Duke and starts sweeping a scanner across the case. Hawk smiles.
That was my last job.  I'm in a whole new outfit now. Duke swivels his gun to Breaker's head. Breaker flinches.
Just need to deactivate its tracking beacon, for security.
Hand over the weapons case son, and let us deliver the warheads.
No way. I signed for 'em. My mission, my package. I carry them, I deliver them. Breaker's scanner BEEPS. He keys a button. The BEEPING promptly stops. He throws a look at Duke.
Wasn't hard, was it?
Fine. But you seem to be a little short on transportation a the moment. Team Alpha will deliver you to me.
And where exactly are you, General?
Come see for yourself.
Hey, you're cute.
He's going into shock.
What's your name, darlin'?
I thought all the Special Ops guys were tough.
We are tough ... . but also sensitive.  Whoa, that's some mucho primo stuff you gave me. Rip is high now, his eyes float up to Heavy Duty who stares back at him. Rip reaches out to touch his well-cropped hair.
.and a kung-fu grip.
The name's Heavy Duty. Duke has the weapons case on his lap.
What kind of outfit is this? Not regular Army based on the accents.  I have you as an Aussie...  And you're a Johannesburger...  And you: French North Africa. Algiers?
Tunisia. Where were you born?
Are you kidding me? Duke wasn't born, he was Government-Issued!
But somehow you're all in the same unit. One you can't tell me the name of right?
We'd get tossed for telling.
Duke, Duke, don't you get it: they're super secret, they're Mission Impossible. This tape's gonna self-destruct in five--
--You're gonna go after them aren't you? The ones that hit my convoy.
Not our call. Ripcord sits up, really woozy, looks at Scarlett.
I want in too. That way we can spend some bunker time together. A SWORD suddenly slices across Rip's face, an inch away. It's Snake-Eyes, checking his blade, seemingly innocent. But the message is not lost on Ripcord. Scarlett looks at Duke.
You two a team or something?
We've been together forever.  But not like that. Hi, I'm Ripcord.
Why do they call you that? Breaker laughs, reading Ripcord's file:
Because his name is Wallace Weems!
Welcome to the new Pit! Duke and Ripcord turn to see hawk and Cover girl walking out from behind the lights.
Duke.
General.
I've read a lot about you two.
Okay, look, I didn't "steal" that Blackhawk, I was borrowing it... Duke shoots him a look. Hawk steps right up to Duke.
Matter of fact, I saw that one of my subordinates tried to recruit you to our little operation a while back.
I was never asked to join any Op group.
Remember a tall gentleman approaching you in Thailand when you were on leave, four years ago?
Vaguely.
Right before you tore up the bar?
Four years? My man had some issues. Duke shoots him another look, then turns back to Hawk.
This doesn't look like any Tac Op I've ever seen. Where are we?
Okay, you trusted me by going with my team, so I'll trust you. There's a loud METALLIC CLANG and part of the PLATFORM begins to descend. They pass the URBAN COMBAT LEVEL where MEN and WOMEN are training with next-gen urban warfare equipment.
Technically, GI JOE doesn't exist. But if it did, it'd be comprised of the top men and women from the best military units all over the world. The alpha dogs... They see a pretty woman sip into a next-gen CAMO-SUIT, which reflects and refracts light, making her nearly invisible.
Oh man, I want one of those.
The suit or the girl?
Both. Scarlett's eyes roll. They descend into the DESERT COMBAT level, where soldiers train with desert warfare equipment.
Ten nations signed on in their first year. Working together, sharing intel. Now we have twenty- three.
I've never seen combat gear this sleek, what's the trick?
Liquid armor. They reach the DEEP SEA COMBAT LEVEL where dozens of men and women are testing fantastic next-gen UNDERWATER VEHICLES.
Good news is we've been pretty successful so far. The bad news is whenever we manage to shut down one organization, another springs up in its place.
Who could possibly fund all this?
Oprah.
Patch him through, please.
So who hit us out there?
Currently unidentified.
And how'd that bitch in leather get a jump jet like ours?
Whoever she is, she's clearly well- financed, with access to highly classified intel and state of the art weaponry. Their capabilities are beyond anything we've ever encountered.
That's the reason we got our asses kicked. Duke betrays nothing. Hawk looks at him.
We're going to need to find out everything we can about her. Knowing is half the battle.
What's the other half? McCullen now appears next to Ripcord and walks through him.
Jesus! And we realize McCullen is here courtesy of a HOLO-PROJECTOR. A ring of cameras provides him with images of the Joes.
Gentlemen, this is James McCullen, CEO of MARS Industries, the man who built these warheads. WE INTERCUT THIS SCENE WITH McCullen standing in front of a HOLO-CAM in a small room somewhere. THE HOLOGRAPHIC IMAGES of hawk, Duke, and the others around him.
General, most men I've encountered in this business over-promise and under-deliver. You're the opposite. Clearly, you were the security option I should have chosen. ON DUKE: Steaming behind his military demeanor.
My team did everything we could out there. A lot of good men went down--
--But not you.
That mission was classified, sir. Clearly, somebody sold us out.
I've spent ten years and thirteen billion Euros creating these four warheads. Your job, Captain, was to protect them, and if it wasn't for General Hawk, you would've failed.
That's not a fair assessment. He followed his orders to the letter.
Well that wasn't enough. Duke bristles. McCullen turns to Hawk.
What are your coordinates? I'll have NATO send another special ops team to retrieve the warheads, company strength this time.
Apologizes, Mr McCullen. It's not that I don't trust you...I don't trust anybody.
I don't talk smooth enough to be a McCullen.
You do just fine, General. Now, so the bastards who attacked you can't find you, you need to disable the tracking beacon hidden in the case.
We already have.
Good man. So, can I count on you to deliver the warheads to NATO now?
I think it unwise to expose them at the moment. This group might make another attempt.
We need to find and neutralize them before we can consider moving your weapons.
Alright. But allow me to check the warheads to see if any have been damaged. Duke begrudgingly sets the case down. Breaker turns on his suit's BALL-EYEPIECE. It goes into X-RAY MODE and we see the NANO-MITES crawling around inside the four warheads.
Open it, please.
My scan says they're intact...
General?
What's the code? ON DUKE, listening carefully.
Five-two-nine-four-four-oh. Breaker enters the code. As the case opens, Breaker discreetly watches McCullen in his BALL-EYEPIECE SCANNER. McCullen runs his holographic fingers over the warheads. Satisfied, he turns to Hawk.
Please keep me informed of your progress, General. Duke and McCullen share a quick glare. And then McCullen cuts the feed. Scarlett notices concern on Breaker's face.
Breaker?
That bloke's Beta waves were going up, down, and sideways... I think he's hiding something. And off the faces of the rest of the group WE CUT BACK TO:
I spend five years setting this up. Wringing money out of NATO. This was supposed to be the easy part.
If you'd let me stage the assault at your precious factory, we could have contained the situation.
And lost the trust of our clients in the process? It had to be NATO's fault.  What happened? Did you hesitate?
You're implying this was about some ancient history? That's as laughable as your Intel. What went wrong was the Joes appearing out of nowhere. He stares at her suspiciously, then softens.
Forgive me, jealousy isn't my strong suit.
Forget that, where are we now? Have you tracked the case?
They deactivated the beacon. I gave them a code to quietly re-arm it. McCullen hits a key, a SCREEN switches on, displaying A MAP OF THE WORLD. A BEACON LIGHT flashes over a spot in the Egyptian desert, grip coordinates blinking.
There it is. The infamous Pit.
I will get those warheads back.
I hope so.
 If I were really there, I might actually let you touch me.
 I'll send a jet.
Business first. Besides, I'm married, remember? Her holo-form blinks off, leaving McCullen alone in the room.
Sometimes I really hate technology. He sighs heavily, then hears a VOICE:
It is most often used by those without honor. McCullen turns to see STORM SHADOW, a well-tailored Korean man whose soul has long since departed, standing on the other side of the room.
There can't be any more mistakes. The schedule can't be compromised any further.
If you had sent me, it would be done.
 I'm sending you now, Storm Shadow. To the Baroness's villa. .Make sure her commitment doesn't waiver. Storm Shadow nods, McCullen continues on THROUGH him. We now realize Storm Shadow was a holo-proj. Storm Shadow vanishes.
Welcome back.
Good to be back.
we've been very busy. He gestures to TWENTY MERCENARIES or various ethnicities, all standing at attention, not a single muscle moving among them. These are NEO-VIPERS. The baddest of the bad.
Is it working?
You tell me. The Doctor beckons a waiting LAB ASSISTANT who rolls out a glass case containing an eighteen foot long KING COBRA. the Doctor bends down and gazes at the snake.
The King Cobra is a magnificent creature. Its venom can kill a full grown elephant with a single bite. He rattles the case and the cobra HISSES at him, revealing its hood. The Doctor steps up to a Neo-Viper and shows McCullen an INCISION SCAR behind the Neo-Vipers' right ears.
We introduced into each subject one thousand cc's of the nano-mite solution. As expected, subjects became extremely ill and fell into a coma-like state for approximately forty hours. The Doctor produces a small HANDHELD DEVICE from his pocket, A FILE PHOTO of a Neo-Viper appears on the device's screen.
When they returned to sentience, brain scans showed complete inactivity in the self-preservation region of the cortex.
English, Doctor. The Doctor keys a demand and that particular Neo-Viper steps up and sticks his bare arm into the case through a portal.
They feel no fear. The Neo-Viper grabs the cobra and squeezes, the cobra bites his arm, latching on, sinking its venom into his veins. The Neo-Viper doesn't even wince.
Cortical nerve clusters revealed complete inactivity--
--Doctor.
They feel no pain. The Doctor keys another command and the Neo-Viper obediently lets go of the cobra and removes his arm from the case.
Frontal lobe concepts of morality are disengaged... No remorse...
And they are completely obedient?
Of course. .The real world applications are endless.
The nano-mites will target the venom. STILL IN HIS VEINS we see hundreds of MICROSCOPIC NON-MITES rushing to meet the venom head on. Blocking it. Then swiftly pushing it back. All the way to the original fang holes. The venom seeps out of the holes and drips off the Neo-Viper's arm. He stands and returns to his place in line without a word. The Doctor looks at impressed McCullen.
So you tell me: is it working?
The science is staggering isn't it?
You've done well. You've thrown the caber clear out of the yard.
But research and science are expensive propositions. If I can make a suggestion..? McCullen stops and looks at him, there is something truly menacing and evil behind this Doctor's mask.
Selling one batch of warheads on the black market could fund--
--I appreciate your thirst for knowledge, Doctor. But this world is messy enough. Factions fighting and scrabbling for control, for resources, and it's only going to get worse as the century progresses. No. What the world needs is unification. Leadership.
It needs to be taken out of chaos by someone with complete control. He looks through a portal into a shadowy OPERATING CHAMBER, where a brilliant but vicious looking MAN is being scanned by SMART ROBOTS. This is ZARTAN. A Smart Robot begins to change Zartan's fingerprints, which we see on a monitor.
My family was once this close to that kind of power...
Once I get my hands on the reins, the money will take care of itself. You'll be able to do all the research you want. McCullen strides off. The Doctor stares after him.
We grabbed an image from Heavy- Duty's helmet cam. Ripcord looks stunned, he leans closer to Duke and whispers:
Hey, that's-- Duke cuts him off with a look. Breaker extracts a full 3D FRONT-VIEW of Ana's face from the photo. Then on an adjacent monitor, he runs an endless series of PHOTOS OF WOMEN.
Now we can run the face through an infinity scan.
We have access to any photograph on any server anywhere in the world.
Everyone gets photographed in some way at some time. ATM machines, airports, crowd shots at a football game. We'll find her. Duke just stares at Ana's photo. Ripcord whispers quietly:
You okay?
 .what happened to her? For once, Ripcord doesn't know what to say. Cover Girl walks in and hands a document to Hawk, who looks through it.
From NATO. I am now the official custodian of the warheads. Your mission is complete. Once you hand it over, that is. Duke nods, hands over the case with a hint of defeat.
When you move it, she's gonna come after you, you know that, right?  And with her Intel, and her toys... she'll find you.
And your point is...?
You're going to go after her first. And I want to help.
Let us in on this, General. Our team just got wasted. I think a little payback is in order.
You don't ask to be a part of GI JOE. You get asked.
You scouted me four years ago, now I'm ready. Let's have at it.
I've lost men too, Captain. Good men. But attempting to--
I know her.
Excuse me?
You said knowing is half the battle. Well, I know who she is. Duke reaches into his pocket, pulls out a photo and shows Hawk. INSERT PHOTO: Ana, four years earlier, much softer looking, staring lovingly at Duke as they're about to kiss.
Her name is Ana Lewis, and I can tell you everything you need to know about her until... four years ago. After that, well, obviously sa lot's changed. Hawk just stares in disbelief.
Before this goes any further, I need to know what I'm dealing with, a man looking to settle a score, or a man who can put the mission first. Because the battlefield is the wrong place for emotion.  Could you kill her?
If I had to.
Chances are you will. But if you flinch, hesitate even an instant... what I'm trying to say is, unless you can kill her graveyard dead I don't want you.
I can.  I signed on to deliver those warheads, General, and despite your present authority, I want to finish the job. Hawk regards him for a moment.
So tell me about her.
Okay, I'll start right here: I hope that vault is tight, because she always gets what she wants...
Hello, darling.
How is work at the lab?
Steady progress.
So the Minister of Defense was pleased?
He was. You know I wish I could tell you more...
Of course.
You were gone a long time. How were the shops in Monte Carlo?
I didn't get what I was after. They head up the stairs.
I suppose I should be grateful.
Most husbands would be.
Most husbands don't have such mysterious wives, they know exactly where they are and what they do.
I never get over how beautiful...
 Neither do I. She spots Storm Shadow standing in an ante room and quickly spins to face her husband. She pulls Decobray close and kisses him. Storm Shadow makes a move, but ana warns him off with her eyes, She finishes the kiss and looks at Decobray.
Let me change and freshen up and I'll meet you for dinner.
Of course. Decobray smiles at her and leaves. The smile falls from Ana's face as she spins around and heads for Storm Shadow.
Mr. McCullen gave me explicit orders to sever the Baron's spine if he so much as touched you.
He's my husband, of course he touches me. Tell McCullen to grow up. Besides, the Baron says his work in the lab goes much better after we've... touched. And that's the important thing.
I'll be accompanying you to retrieve the warheads this time. Along with some of the men the Doctor's been working on.
 The Doctor.
We go at dawn. Storm Shadow turns and heads out through the doors. Ana Stands alone in her room now, she heads over to her dresser and opens a hidden drawer. Inside is a SMALL BOX. She opens it carefully and gazes at an ENGAGEMENT RING inside. Something sad and lonely in her eyes... And WE FLASHBACK TO:
My hot tub only holds four.
I've been wanting to do this before we deploy.
Duke...it's beautiful. It's too nice you lunatic.
Only time I'm buying one of these, so why not? They stare a each other, a touching beat. Then Duke screws up his face, worried?
Well, what do you say? She's too emotional to speak. And then they hear:
Say yes, you idiot...! Lieutenant REX LEWIS saunters up, MEDICAL INSIGNIA on his collar. The look on his face tells us he's happy for them.
.Before I tell my new brother-in- law what it's like to share a bathroom with you.
Thanks for killing the mood, Rex.
I was coming to offer you a ride back to post.
Time already?
We go at oh-five hundred.
Is it WMDs? It is, right? That's why you're pulling Rex out of the
Ana, we can't--
Yeah, yeah. Classified. Top Secret. Have to kill me if you told me, blah, blah, blah.
Speaking of classified information, you still haven't answered.
Yes. Of course it's yes. On one
She grabs REX and pulls him down on his knees next to Duke.
Promise me that you won't let my genius egghead brother get hurt.  He's the only family I've got left.  Promise me.
I promise. She smiles and holds out her hand. He threads the ring onto her trembling finger. Rex smiles, but in his eyes is a glint of instability. Ripcord comes CRASHING OUT through shuttered doors and sprawls out next to them, arms and legs akimbo.
Jesus, Rip. Ripcord rolls over and yells back through the doors:
How was I supposed know she was married!?  Nice rock! Hey, are you proposing?
I'm done proposing.
I already said yes.
Not official until you answer my question. Do you love my boy?
Always and forever. Ripcord flips open his CELL PHONE and takes the photo of Ana that Duke carries with him.
Now I've gotta find someone to love me, as many times as possible for the next three hours. WE PUSH IN ON THE PHOTO, then SMASH CUT BACK TO THE PRESENT.
If you want to join us, you'll need to be mission ready, Joe style. This is the Mark One Accelerator Suit.
What's it accelerate?
You. It'll make you run faster, jump higher, and hit harder than any of your enemies. A TITANIUM BOOT slides over a shoe. COBALT MACHINE PARTS snap into place with a HISS over Duke and Rip's arms and legs.
Head-to-toe turbo-hydraulics and highly-pressurized pneumatics. They both slap on aerodynamic, flying-wing HELMETS. Inside, the CYBERNETIC POWER-UP with an ear piercing whine. LASER ENHANCED LED readouts scramble and fritz across their HUDs.
An advanced cybernetics heads-up display, feeding into your helmet. Duke checks out two gas-propelled GRAPPLING SPEARS and six WRIST ROCKETS around his right forearm.
Two gas propelled grappling spears and six ten millimeter, hi- explosive, heat seeking, fire-and- forget rockers. Rip spins the twin barrels of a caseless SUBMACHINE GUN on his left forearm. A Cheshire grin spreads across his face.
And a nine millimeter, caseless submachine gun with six hundred rounds capable of firing all of them in thirty seconds. Duke and Ripcord are now buckled in, getting a feel for the FLEXIBLE, POLY-ALLOY SUITS. Ripcord glances at Heavy Duty.
I just missed everything you said.  How do I look? Pretty cool, huh?
Sixty-three seconds. Not Bad. But not good enough. Gotta get under a minute to qualify.
What's the record?
Forty-five.
Don't tell me, Snake-Eyes?
No, me. Ripcord glances at Scarlett's CROSSBOW PISTOL.
You can do this whole course with that thing in forty-five seconds?
If you're going to shoot at something, kill it. Otherwise take up knitting.
When I want something, I don't just shoot at it...  When I get a target in my sights, I take it down. His meaning is clear. She holds his gaze, slaps a magazine into her CROSSBOW PISTOL and hands it to him.
Here. Go on. Try it.
I wouldn't want to show you up.
Oh, that's so thoughtful of you.
What can I tell you? I guess I'm just a considerate, humble guy. You'll learn that about me.
I'm the "target in your sights," right? You've got ten rounds to "take me down".
I don't want to hurt you.
They're training arrows. The most I'll feel is a little jolt.
C'mon, Rip. Ripcord tries harder, genuinely doing his best. But Scarlett us too fast. Ducking and weaving around Ripcord, as nimble as a cat. Five more shots miss her. And now Ripcord's feeling the pressure. He waits for her to move. Fires. She leaps up onto a corner wall and the bolt passes underneath. He fires again as she lands, ducks under it and rolls up to him. He fires his last bolt point blank. She catches it in her left hand by the stem as it leaves the chamber. Slamming her body up against his. Right hand behind his head, left hand holding the bolt. Their faces close. Lips closer. Ripcord's eyes on hers as he whispers:
Guess you didn't really want me that bad, rip. She holds his eyes a moment longer, then lets him go. As she walks away, Scarlett casually tosses the ARROW, it hits the ground and EXPLODES. Ripcord and Duke jump back. Ripcord glances at the underside of the pistol's magazine. Three words: "CAUTION: LIVE BOLTS". Both men watch Scarlett saunter back to the beginning of the course, awestruck. Breaker walks by eating a burrito and watching his bio-rhythm display.
Aw, Ripcord's heart just skipped a beat. Isn't that sweet?
Again. They go at each other, fast and furious, the electrified pugil sticks crackling and sparking. Duke spins and attempts a stroke similar to Snake-Eyes' earlier move. Snake-Eyes blocks it, drops, and sweeps Duke's feet, taking him down hard before finishing him with another SPARKING HIT. Again, the Joes react. Snake-Eyes turns away. Duke shakes it off and pops to his feet once more.
Again.
The foundation of this fence is a hundred feet deep. No going under. Ten Neo-Viper mole pods start to burst out the wall. And then there's a crashing sound as one of the wall girders bends, obviously a mole machine in the clay behind it hit it. Ana can hear the engine grind to a halt.
If we don't get him out he'll suffocate. Storm Shadow gives her a look: Like I care?
Just thought I'd mention it.
All that matters is the mission. Ana pulls out a hi-tech SCANNING DEVICE which shoots out six STEEL BLUE BEAMS in a 360 DEGREE ARC, creating a DETAILED SCHEMATIC of the Pit, showing rooms and people moving about them. She points down a tunnel beyond the electrified fence. Storm Shadow gestures to one of the Neo-Vipers. The Man immediately walks over and grabs the fence, electricity JOLTS him violently, but the man ignores it and shakily starts climbing the fence. The skin on his hands and arms starts to burn and bubble.
Acceptable collateral damage.
 Is there any other? Near the top the Man finally falls backward and drops down dead. Storm Shadow nods to the next Viper. Without hesitation the Man walks over and grabs the fence. He is immediately JOLTED, but keeps climbing, burning and bubbling. This guy makes it to the top, throws himself over, and crashes to the ground, then crawls over and pulls the OFF SWITCH, cutting the electricity before dropping dead himself. Ana, Storm Shadow and the others quickly scale the fence.
You can learn a whole hell of a lot about a girl by the way she dances. Tell me I'm wrong Snake-Eyes. Snake-Eyes, sharpening his sword, barely looks up.
See? He agrees.
No, he doesn't. Do you? This time Snake-eyes looks up, his expression unreadable.
See, he knows you have to listen to get to know someone. Right, Rip? Rip is happily stowing his liquid armor gear, glances over.
What? You say something? Breaker sits at a chessboard. Heavy D sits across from him.
Sorry, Scarlett, gotta go with Heavy D on this one.
Like my man says, get a girl on the floor, you don't just see how she moves, you get the smell of her. What biologists tell us is that the decision is made by he nose long before the rest of the body gets involved. It's a question of pheromones.
You're going to teach me science? I read all about the positron emission tomography studies concerning sex pheromones when I was twelve. I'm just saying, it's not very romantic. Rip whispers to Duke, nodding towards Scarlett.
Heavy told me she graduated college at twelve. No response from Duke, who is trying to get comfortable.
She's like a freaky genius. A deadly, freaky genius.
You like her, I get it already.
 You can't learn this stuff in a book, Scarlett. You have to at least kiss a guy, before you're an expert on romance. The guys all laugh. Scarlett blushes, then raises her bow.
Who am I shooting first? The laughter stops. Rip looks surprised.
You haven't kissed anyone? Now Scarlett looks really furious. Rip instantly wishes he could take his words back. Duke just shakes his head.
Really firing on all cylinders there, Rip.
All I know is, when the bass get's that booty shaking in the right way, I'm in the skin like a man named Flynn. Heavy Duty does a little freak dance. Scarlett makes a show of disgust. Ripcord watches Scarlett, then makes a decision.
Hell with it. He strides across the room toward Scarlett. Breaker notices.
 Into the Valley of Death rode the
Beach reading, huh? She groans and lowers the book only slightly.
Hi, I guess we kinda got off on the wrong foot... Without changing expression she goes back to her book.
Okay look, I'm attracted to you. And you, you're attracted to me. And him--  The Zen Master, he creeps me out, but what I'm saying is--
"We're attracted to one another."
Thank you.
That's what you're saying, not what I'm saying.
Okay, what are you saying?
Attraction is an emotion. Emotions are not based in science. And if you can't quantify or prove that something exists, well, in my mind... it doesn't.
Okay, I'll get back to you on that. And he walks away scratching his head. Hawk steps in. Everyone comes to attention.
Duke, You scored in the top half- percent of all people we've ever tested. Rip, well, if we average your scores with Duke's, you pass too. Welcome aboard, provisionally. But we still need to see if you pass muster in the field. Hawk gives them a nod. Duke and rip nod back with pride.
YO JOE! Welcome aboard, boyz!
Sorry to disturb you, general.
That's all right, Cover Girl. What am I signing now? Cover Girl GASPS, a KATANA BLADE piercing out through her chest. She drops lifelessly, revealing Storm Shadow behind her. Hawk grabs a PISTOL, but Storm Shadow flashes his two swords. One slices the barrel of the pistol clean off, the other buries itself in Hawk's gut. Hawk collapses. Ana steps forward and rips the General's SECURITY BADGE off his jacket. Hawk's eyes follow them as they leave. He glances at a RED BUTTON under his desk and struggles to reach it, giving everything he's got, until he finally hits the button.
The warheads. They all rush out of the doors. Breaker stops to change a chess piece on the board before racing out.
They can't be far.
Put the case down, Ana, Rip trains his gun on Storm Shadow.
And you get out of that...thing. Stalemate. Storm Shadow doesn't move. Ana turns and looks at Duke. Sets the case down, her voice is gentle.
Fine. Done. Then she takes a step toward Duke.
Stop, Ana. Stop right there. But she doesn't. She just keeps slowly moving toward him.
You can't shoot me, can you?
I will if I have to.
Deep down, you're still the same man I fell in love with.
Don't force this, Ana.
What could have been, right, Duke? You beside your best man. Me walking down the aisle.
Don't listen to her, Duke.  Was I really going to be your best man?
 Don't make me do this god-damnit!
"Don't make me do this?" A recurring theme in your life, right Duke? She takes another step. Duke levels his pistol right at her forehead. Storm Shadow flinches. Duke gives him a glance.
Move and I'll blow her away.  Get the briefcase. Ana takes another step forward, daring Duke to pull the trigger. Ripcord, gun drawn and fixed on Storm Shadow, moves slowly forward to retrieve the briefcase. Ana is now an inch from the extended barrel. Ana and Duke are close enough to feel each other's breath. Their eyes lock.
Do it, Duke. .You already killed me once. And in Duke's eyes we see him falter, just a bit. Ripcord passes Ana, and wit hone lightning quick hand she slaps at Duke's pistol. AN ERRANT SHOT GOES OFF. Storm Shadow lunges at ripcord, SLICING his pistol in half with one sword and about to kill him with the other. When suddenly, Snake-Eyes lunges INTO FRAME. CLANG! Snake- Eyes' KATANA BLADE saves Ripcord's life by a half inch. The rest of the Neo-Vipers arrive and immediately open fire, pinning both Duke and Ripcord down. All hell breaks loose. Snake-Eyes and Storm Shadow lunge at one another, swords flashing at impossible speeds, then they lock swords. Face- to-face, staring hard into each other's eyes.
I believe you've got my luggage. Ana stares at Scarlett, then quick-draws a PULSE PISTOL. Her shot tears the CROSSBOW PISTOL out of Scarlett's hands. Ana's got her dead-to-rights until Scarlett triggers her CAMO- SUIT, melting into nothing right in front of Ana. Ana doesn't spot the RIPPLES OF AIR around her until she's stuck hard. The case goes flying. Another SMACK and her pistol is knocked free. Ana grabs a second pistol, but that's just as quickly twisted out of her grasp and dropped. Ana fights the invisible Scarlett as best she can, but Scarlett lands several unseen blows on her. Ripcord and Duke take out a pair of Neo-Vipers. Storm Shadow climbs back into the Arclight. Looking at ana as she falls near a vehicle on the blocks. Ana grabs an OIL PAN and flings the oil, which sprays over everything, including Scarlett, making her visible. Ana leaps on Scarlett, knocks her to the ground and angrily begins to choke the life out of her. Storm Shadow ignites the Arclight which jumps into the air, powered by an arc of blue light shooting out of its engine pack. He quickly swoops towards the two women and grabs ana by her arm, pulling her along. Ana grabs the weapons case and they soar up out of the motor pool and over the landing pad. The battle raging below them. Ripcord and Duke fire after them, but they vanish up into the next level. Heavy Duty, now back in action, takes out the last of the Neo-Vipers. Snake-Eyes checks on Scarlett who's nursing her neck.
How many warheads?
Four, Mr. President.
Any threats? Any demands?
None so far, sir.
We take this to mean the terrorists are unfocused, no clear goals. The President stops, glancing gravely back at his staff.
No, .it means they're going to use them.
opening. Ana McCullen gazes a the IRON MASK we and Storm Sh saw his ance adow watc in the h onndual HOLOstor
This belonged jo E mine. He was c t an old ancestor o f to both sides. aught sellin g arms They forced wear it the rest to his life .
Why do you keep at it? So that I MCCULLENne ver forget the most important rul e in dealing arms. Never sell to STORM SHADOWboth sides?
Never get caught. McCullen carefully puts the mask back in its ca se.
Take the warheads N ( to them wea Paris. Have ized. Then to test pon one. I want you Test one?ANA
I don't wan t you until leaving Paris that they've you;re sure that the work, been properly y weaponized.
I have a target french will never in mind, one the forget.
As I have never forgotten what the French did to Clan McCullen.
Are you ready, Mr. Zartan?
This is going to be the achievement of a lifetime.
For you and me both.
Eighteen months of studying the subject, learning the mannerisms, adopting his eating habits, losing sixty percent of my muscle mas...
Your commitment has been inspiring. McCullen enters.
Gentlemen. About to get under way? Zartan raises his PDA.
Once the ledgers are all square.
Check your account. Zartan checks the PDA. McCullen shakes his head.
It's always about the money.
It's a useful tool. You should understand that. Ah! The transfer just hit my account. Zartan puts the PDA aside, leans back on the gurney and
Let's do this. The Doctor straps Zartan down, then starts the SMART ROBOTS which converge on Zartan, injecting his body with dozens of long needles. He remains conscious, not feeling any pain. WE ZOOM into a LARGE NEEDLE which OPENS an INCISION behind his right ear. The needle feeds thousands of tiny NANO-MITES into Zartan's head. Zartan's eyes bulge, he starts to SCREAM and fight his restraints as the nano-mites begin to reshape his appearance, reforming facial bones and changing the texture and elasticity of his skin and even changing the color of his eyes. The Doctor grins proudly. McCullen looks disturbed.
 Enough! Storm Shadow! A Ninja Master steps forward. Storm Shadow turns to him.
 He is hungry. We need to invite him in and show him the way.
He's a cur! A Frenchie!
He doesn't fight like one. The two young warriors glare at one another.
 Now what shall be your clan name? Snake-Eyes glares up at Storm Shadow, narrowing his eyes furiously. Hard Master just smiles, AHl AND WE FLASH BACK TO: Snake-Eyes in the motor pool, he stands up and walk off...
Jesus, you okay?
I'm fine.
You're not fine, let me look at that.
I looked at it, it's fine.
Take it easy, just trying to help.
I know what you're trying to do.
And what is that exactly?
I don't have time for this.
You know, not every guy you meet is an asshole. You do know that, don't you? Scarlett stops and returns to the sink, he ignores her, cleaning the blood off his face. She softens.
It's not you, I... I didn't really want anyone to... see me in here.
Why not?
I don't know. All the people we lost last night. General Hawk... My neck is not that important.
You almost died. You're allowed to be concerned.
First fight I've lost since I was a kid. My father would be... he was my instructor.
Think he's be disappointed.
He taught me to win.
I don't know how you teach anybody to win at everything every time.
But I do know you can teach someone to get up when they get knocked down. Ripcord turn her gently in the mirror.
Look at you. Still here. Maybe this is what he wanted you to learn. Scarlett stares at her reflection briefly.
But of course, that would be an emotional response, one that can't be explained or quantified. Ripcord turns and heads for the door. Scarlett watches him.
We're not a couple. Snake-Eyes and me. We're... close, he's like a brother, but... we're not a couple. Ripcord looks back at her, nods, then walks on out.
Can you kill her? And then WE FLASHBACK TO: Ana strangling Scarlett, a smile on her face. Squeezing harder, harder. Pure evil.
Graveyard dead.
Nano-mites. I wrote my thesis on the theory behind them at Oxford. They've been surgically implanted behind the ear, all programmed to accomplish different tasks.
Like what?
Theoretically, the possibilities are endless. Increase their speed, agility, resilience. You program, they perform. That's the genius of nanotechnology, it can do pretty much whatever you want it to.
Mind control?
I don't see why not.
Their weaponry, financing, intel, it has to be McCullen. Doing an inside job on his own warheads.
You may be right. Maybe he needed NATO to pay for his R D.
The weapons case! Everyone stops and looks at Ripcord like he's nuts.
Remember he had us open the case for him. Remember that?
What about it?
I'll bet that code he gave us like re-activated the tracking beacon or something. Looks pass among the group, it starts to make sense.
And who says you're not a thinker. All of the sudden, Breaker rushes up to them, out of breath.
I think I found her...
Yeah, you found her all right.
Her name is Ana DeCobray now, Baroness if you're feeling formal.
Wow, she traded up, huh?  I mean... financially.
Who is he?
Baron DeCobray. Big shot French scientist. Runs a lab in Paris.
Lab? Breaker call up an image of DeCobray standing in front of a huge PARTICLE ACCELERATOR along with some other scientists.
Particle accelerator.
They're gonna use him to weaponize the warheads.
That's where she's going.
Who likes croissants?
Per the briefing, we fast rope in, form up and assault the main lab...  Rex--uh, .the science officer, stays back with Fireteam Alpha until Bravo enters and secures the building. Alpha holds the perimeter while science officer secures the WMDs. Five minutes before extraction and the airstrike. The squad nods. Duke looks to Rex again. Rex is sweating, trying not to show it. Duke hands him a piece of gum.
Double Bubble? Rex takes it. Duke blows a bubble, smiles at Rex.
Always helps me. You good?
 Yeah... They chew their gum.
Go, Bravo. Bravo, a TWO-MAN fire team hit the door of the building. They disappear inside. Rex, a kit bag over his shoulder and a .45 Colt ACP on his hip, waits in a crouch, Duke next to him puts a hand on his shoulder. Duke scans the treeline for any treats. One of Bravo Team appears in the doorway and signals "ALL CLEAR." Duke double taps Rex on the shoulder.
You're good to go, Rex. You don't find it in four minutes, get out of there, because that house won't be standing in five. I already called for the air strike. Rex nods. Duke gives him a smile. Rex takes off and runs low to the door, entering the house. Duke watches him go, then looks back to the jungle and hears the WHUMP of mortars. Duke takes one more look, Rex disappears safely inside, then the mortar rounds start to hit. The ground is torn apart, dirt flying in the air, as Duke, Rip and the rest of the squad takes cover. We catch glimpses of the enemy, lots of them, in the jungle, firing. Duke and Ripcord pop up and return fire.
I've gotta level with ya!
I hate it when you level with me.
Gonna be a long five minutes. Duke just grits his teeth and keeps firing. Then, in the distance, RUMBLING coming from the sonic roar of JETS.
I love that sound... But then he looks to Duke, confusion on his face.
No, no, no... It's too soon. ANGLE ON: The F-16s in formation streaking toward them across the sky. Duke looks back at the main building.
Rex. Duke runs for the building. Tracer fire and mortar explosions all around him. Then the whistle of a bunker buster. Duke dives and BOOM! The building is flattened by the bomb. Duke is tossed through the air like a rag doll. Lands hard, barely registers the pain, staggers up, bloody and ripped, stumbles toward the smoking. Flaming rubble that was the building. The Blackhawk comes sweeping low, ready for extraction, the tracer fire and explosions intensify. Black smoke washes over Duke. Ripcord finds him in the debris.
Blackhawk's waiting. Come on, we've got wounded! And incoming enemy! Lots of 'em!
I can't.
Nothing you can do. Come on...! Gunfire bursts around them as Ripcord pulls Duke away from the ruins of the house.
Good Morning. Baroness.
Good morning. Gene. My husband's expecting me.
Absolument. The Security Guard opens the ELECTRONIC GATE and the Scarab drives up to the building.
Ana...?
I need you to do something for me and I don't have much time.
 Who is this? She beckons Storm Shadow who sets the weapons case down on DeCobray's desk, opening it up to reveal the four NANOTECH WARHEADS and their launchers. DeCobray stares, bewildered.
I don't understand... what are these things? What's going on?
They're warheads, dear. And I need you to weaponize them for me...  .or we'll kill everyone in here. DeCobray stares at her, shocked. He looks at Storm Shadow who removes a GLOCK PISTOL from his belt and shoots a TECHNICIAN. Chaos erupts. DeCobray shouts to the room, calming the others somewhat. He stares at Ana and Storm Shadow, terrified.
This is a civilian laboratory. We don't have the correct programming protocols for weaponizing...
The protocols are in the case.  I told you, I don't have much time. DeCobray reluctantly takes the weapons case.
Heavy D and Breaker will stay in the Brawler, watch our back. The rest of us will break into the lab with the accelerator suits. Once the warheads are weaponized, they'll be extremely volatile. We can't afford to let any of them go off inside the city. Ripcord looks at Snake-Eyes.
What about you? Don't you get a suit? Snake-Eyes just looks at him, "Are you kidding me?"
He doesn't need one.
Firing. DeCobray hits a switch. The PARTICLE ACCELERATOR charges and begins hurling atoms through miles and miles of underground tunnels. Inside the accelerator, the four warheads begin to spin in a GLASS VACUUM CHAMBER -- then, as the power grows, they begin to rise, each one hovering as they spin. Ana and Storm Shadow watch with mild curiosity as the noise inside the chamber builds. The atoms catapulting faster and faster through the tunnels, bombarding the warheads again and again. Until finally, a LOUD BOOM rings out. And the warheads slowly sink back down and stop spinning. DeCobray keys another button and the GLASS VACUUM CHAMBER emerges from the accelerator.
Careful... they're alive.
Thank you, Leon.
I think I have never seen the face of evil until I looked at you now. Ana looks at him and falters, something in his words piercing her hard veneer. She feels Storm Shadow watching her and with a flick of her eyes, the walls go up again. She drop a SEALED ENVELOPE on DeCobray's desk and heads for the door.
Adieu. DeCobray watches her go, then opens the envelope. We see the LARGE HEADER printed on the first page: "ACCORD DE DIVORCE".
There it is.
That's them! Snake-Eyes is already moving, lunging out a SIDE DOOR onto the street as the Brawler still moves, running right at the Scarab which turns to get away. Scarlett immediately follows him out, landing in a roll with her accelerator suit. Ana leans out of her window and fires her PULSE PISTOLS at the Brawler, keeping Duke and Rip inside. Then she fires at Snake-Eyes and Scarlett. Snake-Eyes dives, but the blasts nail Scarlett. She crashes hard. Snake-Eyes glances at her.
Keep going! With that, he leaps after the Scarab, just grabbing the back of the vehicle as it tears away. The Brawler stops right next to Scarlett, out of breath, her accelerator suit
 Don't worry about me, go and help Snake-Eyes! Duke doesn't need to be told twice. He leaps out and runs after the Scarab. Rips starts to follow, Breaker grabs him.
Careful. They're worth millions of dollars... each.
Millions of dollars, got it. He promptly trips and crashes to the pavement. Picks himself up. Gets hit by a car. Picks himself up again.
 Sorry! Excusem moil  Won't happen again.
Christ, they just shot right through a bus!
And that's when Ana sees Duke and Rip following. She sits back down inside and keys a button on a console. SIDE PANELS slide open on the outside of the Scarab to reveal two MISSILES, one on each side. They fire. The MISSILES streak back towards Duke and Ripcord. No time to get out of the way, they dive and roll in various directions, extreme kinetic energy hurling them forward. The two missiles whip between them and detonate, one on a PARKING OFFICER'S CAR and the other on a BILLBOARD. The EXPLOSION from the car knocks them down. The Scarab tears away around a corner.
They're turning the corner. Go through that building at 6 o'clock!
There's no door!
Make one! Duke charges directly at the building. Ripcord reluctantly following as Duke smashes through the wall into...
Mr. McCullen would be quite unhappy if I let you die. Ana quickly and nervously starts to buckle in.
How thoughtful.
Look at the moves they're making, they're heading somewhere. Breaker widens the map, plotting a route.
This's their route from the lab. On the screen, they see the lab, the current position of the Scarab, and what lies just ahead. . .the Eiffel Tower.
Guys, you have to stop them.
Yeah, we're working on it.
I mean right now. They're going to detonate one of the warheads on the Eiffel Tower. Ripcord glances up and sees the Eiffel Tower looming up fast.
Oh, man... Under the Scarab, Snake-Eyes pulls out his GLOCK PISTOL and fires into the unprotected insides of the FRONT TIRES, which promptly rip to shreds. The Neo-Viper loses control of the vehicle, SMASHES through a GUARD ARM onto train tracks. Snake-Eyes sees something, lets go, rolls free and crashes into garbage cans just as a METRO TRAIN barrels into the Scarab, which LAUNCHES into the air, hood-over-tailpipe. Duke and Ripcord are running too fast to stop. Duke manages to leap into the air, his boots barely scraping the top of the train while Ripcord covers his face with his hands and PLUNGES headlong into a window on the side of the train...
Holy shit...
What happened to you?
I went through the train. What happened to you?
I jumped over it.
You can do that?
Yeah, you didn't know? INSIDE THE SCARAB: We see the Neo-Vipers are dead. Storm Shadow is incredibly beat and bloody, but Ana is just fine in her red Accelerator Suit. Storm Shadow grabs the weapons case and he and Ana leap out. Duke and Ripcord pick themselves up while Snake-Eyes crawls out of the TRASH CANS nearby. They see Storm Shadow and Ana emerge from the Scarab and hurry off towards the tower.
C'mon! Snake-Eyes follows Duke and Ripcord, charging after them.
 How do you say "we're the good guys" in French? Meanwhile, Snake-Eyes evades all the chaos by leaping up under the south base, scaling the iron lattice like a monkey.
 Don't shoot! We're a special anti- terrorist unit! There's a bomb up there! POLICE CARS are now rushing up behind them. ON THE SECOND FLOOR: Ana and Storm Shadow speed over to the main tower ELEVATOR and barge their way inside. Storm Shadow hurls the ELEVATOR OPERATOR out as Ana opens the weapons case and removes one of the NANOTECH WARHEADS and its KILL SWITCH. Through the stunned crowd, they see Snake-Eyes reach the top of the stairs behind. Ana rolls the warhead towards him while Storm Shadow lines up on him with the Security Guard's pistol as if to shoot him. Snake-Eyes glares defiantly at Storm Shadow who just grins and lowers his gun at the warhead. A SINGLE SHOT AND THE WARHEAD EXPLODES. Snake-Eyes recoils. ON THE GROUND: Everyone hears the warhead detonate. ON THE FIRST FLOOR: Duke and Ripcord freeze. ON THE SECOND FLOOR: A BURST OF NANO-MITES spreads out in all directions. Storm Shadow closes the ELEVATOR DOORS and hits a button for the top. The elevator races upwards as everything else gets eaten by the ravenous NANO-MITES. The floor begins to disappear. Tourists stampede towards the stairs. A LITTLE GIRL is thrown from her MOTHER'S GRIP. The mother screams out for her child as the girl goes over the railing.
Where you going?
Each warhead has a kill switch.
It's too late! We gotta get off this thing!
Those nano-mites will level the entire city! Duke climbs up the side of the tower with his Accelerator Suit. Rip things about following, but then looks at the little girl in his arms, who smiles and hugs him. Snake-Eyes grabs him and they join the flow of people down the stairs. The NANO-MITES chasing them close behind. Below them, Scarlett, Breaker, and Heavy Duty are helping the police evacuate the Tower. INSIDE THE ELEVATOR: Ana and Storm Shadow race to the top.
 Be ready to pick up in thirty seconds. IN THE SKIES: The Typhoon gunship rockets towards the top of the disintegrating Eiffel Tower, its SIDE DOOR opening. ON THE TOWER: Duke scales the tower, the NANO-MITES chasing him up. His eyes on the elevator as it reaches the top deck just above him. The Typhoon fires a blast of its CONCUSSION CANNONS at Duke, knocking him off the tower. He falls, but manages to catch the tower just below, the NANO-MITES almost on top of him now. The climbs even faster. ON THE TOP DECK: The elevator arrives. Ana and Storm Shadow calmly walk out and climb the railing as the Typhoon hovers up beside them. Below them, Duke sees them board. The tower groans and wobbles. It's a long way down. Time has run out. Ana and Storm Shadow jump into the Typhoon.
Come on! He hauls-ass.
You just saved Paris. Storm Shadow is not happy at all, he TASERS Duke, who drops hard to the floor of the Typhoon.
What are you doing?
Plugging into his cerebral cortex. With a SICKENING CRUNCH, Breaker plunges the needle into the top of the Neo-Viper's head. Ripcord winces at the sight.
The brain survives for a couple of minutes after death. We can read his most recent memories.
Can you find Duke?
If this guy remembers the way home we can. INSERT: A FLASH OF MEMORIES appearing on Breaker's HUD. Duke shooting him in the face, racing along the highway, driving the ARMORED CAR. As the images continue, we PUSH IN on the Neo-Viper's open eyes and CUT TO:
Destroy that unit immediately. The Doctor removes his PDA and taps a key to draw up the Neo- Viper's file. He clicks a button that reads "TERMINATE".
He's still alive!
He's not alive.
You ever seen a dead guy do that?
They activated a self-destruct. The Neo-Viper's body starts to decay before them. Thousands of NANO-MITES literally eating away at his flesh and bones.
Nano-mites!
They're eating him!
Hurry, Breaker! But the NANO-MITES are too fast. The Neo-Viper's legs are now gone. His chest and arms next. Breaker rapidly scans through the MEMORY FLASHES. But now the NANO-MITES consume his head.
You did the best you could.
Relax, I got it.
You got it?
That was for McCullen. There is the sound of weapons being raised. The team looks to see they are surrounded by FRENCH POLICE and PARATROOPERS.
 We don't have time for this.
The onl about i Dukendly force I care
Nice.
It'snot his emotional. fault. He's just... Scarlett and a French Detect Rip share a look. On the other SUIT o curiously examines n a desk. Bre aker jumps up to Breakerssde Rf the bars the bars. Please, BREAKER touch that. Please, don't
touching It's very... Okayit. , Please! Sir. Sir, How do RIPCORD you say "lawyer" in French?
If we could get on a Might be to computer we longitude able Input the partial les g es latitude, and Viper, figu the downloaded from tha t re out their locati
 It'll be a military when they're done tribunal. need a lawyer. We with us And 'll need diapers.
 Think, think, think...  At some point they gotta feed us or take us out for the interrogation. When they do I'll jump the lead Guard. Heavy, you go for his weapon and--
--Start an international incident.
I'm not gonna just sit here!
This is bigger than Duke.
What if it was one of you? What if they had Heavy or Scarlett, what would you do? The Joes trade looks - rock and a hard place.
We're not doing Duke a damned bit of good sitting here. If it was reversed, Duke would be kicking down every door between here and the freakin' moon 'til he found me.
And we'll do the same for him as soon as we get out of here. She has a thought and turns to Breaker.
Partial? You said partial latitude and longitude.
We only got the one coordinate-- 90 degrees, then the image went to snow.
Maybe it was the whole coordinate, just 90 degrees latitude. 
Before the image went to snow,...it's the polar ice cap. RIP'S DOG TAGS hit the floor and slide to his feet. The Joes all look up to see several POLICE OFFICIALS looking at them.
They did away with the guillotine, right? They arrive at a door. The door is opened to reveal a man in a wheelchair, back turned. When he spins around, it's Hawk.
General! Hawk just shakes his head and sighs heavily.
How long before we're released?
The French government is allowing you to leave on the condition that none of you ever return. Other agencies will be handling this from here on.
What?!
The heads of state of every member of GI JOE are recalling their operatives. We are now considered a rogue unit, uncontrollable. Shut down. We're to report to Washington for debriefing. Hawk rolls his wheelchair to the door.
That's it? They've got Duke!
I said you were to report to Washington. I didn't say when, or which route to take.
Maybe a northern one. Hawk smiles and wheels out the door.
He thinks I should kill you.
Why don't you?
James wants to meet you in person.
James?
Mr McCullen.
Ana listen--
--Talk softly, or he'll tazer you again.
 Loosen these, he'll never taser anything again. She taps the bonds on his wrists.
I should've thought of this before. They almost share a smile.
Let me get this straight. You're with McCullen. You're married to that Baron. And you claim you're still in love with me.
I'm a complex woman.
Maybe you just don't know who you are anymore.
Who I was died long ago.
No, this isn't you, I still see the person I loved behind your eyes. Her eyes soften for a moment.
Tell me what she was like.
She was smart, and funny. She was loyal as hell. She loved those she was close with, me, her brother...  I did my best. With Rex. I'm sorry. He was my responsibility. I should have... It's why I left, Ana. Why I couldn't be with you. You were in so much pain... I thought the sight of me just give you more. She seems to be affected by this ever so slightly, then... a hard, cold look comes to her eyes, she shakes her head.
It doesn't matter now.
No, it matters very much. We have the chance to make things right.
Nothing will ever be right again. Duke stares at her, his heart ripped apart. WE PUSH IN ON the two of them and FLASHBACK TO:
NO! McCullen has plans for him! Storm Shadow throws a star, it whistles across the cave and nails Duke in his shoulder, Duke goes down hard, staggers back up, but the Neo-Vipers are already on him, they start beating the living shit out of him. Ana jogs up.
Enough! Storm Shadow picks up the case and looks at Duke, face down, bloody and beaten.
And what was your plan? Run three thousand miles across the ice? He rips his star out of Duke's shoulder. Duke sucks it up.
Stupid soldier. Duke rolls over and stares up at them, breathing hard.
That's a lotta ice.
It's gonna be like trying to find whale spit in the ocean. Breaker sees a SMALL LIGHT flashing on his Ball-Eyepiece.
That's strange.
What?
When they stole the weapons case, I set my suit to scan for the tracker beacon in case it came back on, and it just came back on. Ripcord just smiles.
That's my boy.
Certain work needs to be done away from the public eye.
Take them to the drones. I want them ready to launch in one hour.
It will be done. And only then does McCullen greet Ana.
My beautiful Lady of the Lake... He kisses her. Ana kisses him back with slightly-feigned affection, her eyes open and on Duke. Duke stands there, impassive. McCullen finishes the kiss and turns to Duke.
This bother you? Duke says nothing, so McCullen steps closer.
Isn't it funny, with the entire balance of power in the world about to shift, a couple of guys can still have a stare down over who gets the girl. Duke takes the opportunity to HEAD BUTT McCullen. The Neo- Vipers instantly pummel Duke to the floor. McCullen wipes a small trickle of blood from his nose.
The interesting thing about my Neo- Vipers is they still think the same thoughts they always did, they just can't act on them anymore. Instead, they do what I want. I imagine that must be very frustrating. He gets right down in Duke's face.
I'm going to make you very unhappy.
 I'm already happy. McCullen glances at Ana, watching the display with conflicted eyes. McCullen heads for the door, beckoning the Neo-Vipers to make Duke follow him.
What're you gonna do with the warheads?
You take to your training well, that's good. Still trying to develop information. Still planning to escape and stope me. Moments from now, you'll see that won't ever happen.
Then you won't mind telling me.
Isn't it clear? I'm a business man. I'm going to use them.
Millions of people are gonna die if you launch those warheads. What is it you want, McCullen?
Merely to strike fear into the hearts of every man, woman, and child on the planet. Only then will they look up to the man who wields the most power, and obey him.
Meet the genius behind all my nanotechnology.
My genius lies only in taking what others created to the logical next steps. All modern gains in science are made through theft.
You'll have to excuse his modesty, when I found him, he was --
 --Another "recruit"?
Albeit a rather unwilling one. The Doctor's nano-mites can control all manner of brain functions. When you wake up, you'll be working for me, and your past will be a distant shimmer that floats in and out of your mind like a leaf on a breeze.
I'll prepare him for the surgery. The Doctor beckons the Neo-Vipers who shove Duke after him towards another door. Duke and Ana exchange one last look. McCullen keeps his eyes on her as she watches him go.
Picture's coming on line now.
It's an underwater facility...
McCullen's home away from home.
Dukes' gotta be in there somewhere.
Wait, what's that? Breaker ZOOMS IN on a massive TURBO-LASER CANNON.
Oh, Jesus...That's an automated, phased array turbo-pulse battery.  A really big gun.
Could it take out our sub?
That thing could take out a dozen subs simultaneously.
Then that's our first objective.
No, no. Duke's our first objective.
The main force can't attack as long as that cannon's online.
How you figure getting it offline? Snake-Eyes points to the DIVING BELL CABLES n the monitor.
Elevator cables. They've got a surface entrance. Shipwreck? She turns to the submarine commander, HECTOR "SHIPWRECK" DELGADO, a fiery Spanish naval combat veteran.
Going up, senorita? Scarlett nods and leads the others down a corridor.
Snake-Eyes, Breaker, Ripcord, and I will infiltrate the factory from above and destroy the cannon. Heavy D, as soon as we give the word, you lead the assault from outside.
 Go, Joes...
All drones prepared and ready, Sir.
Good, commence the launch sequence immediately. is that a ripple of concern flickering across Ana's face?
That McCullen's got some gadgets. Breaker gestures to the ice wall. Snake-Eyes uses his Katana sword to slice a circle in the wall and yank it out, revealing the DIVING BELL CABLES, but no diving bell.
Maybe we could slide down. Snake-Eyes shakes his head, doubtful
The arctic water would kill us.
Three... two... one... ignite primary engines. The entire control room begins to shake. The screens fill with fire.
We lost one.
Lost one? What do you mean?
Bird Three is down, Sir. McCullen looks at the monitors, enraged. Storm Shadow smiles.
We're under attack.
Alert all defences. Charge up the pulse cannon. He turns to say something to Ana, but she has left the room.
What about the other two?
We find the kill switches and short out the nano-mites.
 They're already way out of range.
Then somebody has to go up there and shoot those things down.
Can you even fly this thing?
I can fly anything. You just track those warheads and guide me in. We don't have long until they hit.
Ripcord? He glances at her, a moment between them. Then she presses forward and kisses him on the mouth. He stares back at her.
Good luck.
Do me a favor? Save Duke. She gives him a nod, then leaves. Ripcord grins to himself.
The atomic bomb that was dropped on Hiroshima destroyed seventy percent of the city. Seventy percent... Did you know that, Duke?
There was a bank situated less than one hundred yards from Ground Zero, destroyed of course. Only one thing survived. It's four bank vaults. And when those vaults were opened, they discovered everything inside them had survived completely unscathed.
Who are you?
Of course, the vault I took shelter in wasn't that well-made. He unclips his BREATHING TUBES and lowers the mask to reveal a scarred and burned face.
Double Bubble? Duke is beyond shocked.
Rex... Rex immediately has trouble breathing and returns the mask over his face.
You sonuvabitch... Ana buried you.
A moving ceremony, I'm sure. The three volley salute. The flag on the coffin.
Why? .Why didn't you come in...?
Because I found out the truth...
Intel says the lab's in the basement. Fireteam Bravo kicks open a door. They lead the way down a staircase toward the basement. Rex follows, nervous as hell. The soldiers round a corner, suddenly, Rex hears GUNFIRE, he freezes, then silence, Rex pulls out his .45 And rounds the corner to see Fireteam Bravo down. A GUARD is trying to clear a jam in his machine gun. As he clears the weapon and raises it, Rex raises his .45 and fires first. The Guard drops. Rex checks Bravo, but they're not moving. He looks around the basement, no lab, but he sees a massive VAULT DOOR, closed. He heads for the vault, 45 raised, breathing hard. WHOOSH, a blast of refrigerated air hits him as he opens the door. Rex enters a small room filled with DEAD ANIMALS in huge FORMALDEHYDE JARS> Something inside the animals is constantly reshaping their appearances, reforming their facial bones and changing the color, texture and elasticity of their skins. There is a scuffling noise, Rex points his gun. A small, stooped old SCIENTIST in a lab coat appears.
Are you going to shoot me?... Rex doesn't respond.
We knew you were coming. But I couldn't walk away from it... Rex stares in awe, not what he was expecting.
Stay where you are. His gun up, he finds a COMPUTER TERMINAL and begins accessing various files, starts reading them.
These aren't chemical or nuclear--
No. Something much... better.
This is beyond anything... This is light years ahead of anyone in the field.
You see why I couldn't leave. Rex nods, hypnotized by the science in front of him, an instant bond formed with the man who created it. The distant sound of Jets. The Scientist moves to the vault door and begins pulling it closed as we hear the J-Dam Bunker Buster whistling towards them.
If we live, I'll show you everything...
The man who created this technology was not our enemy. In fact, he was hired by our very own government to create it. When it was deemed too unethical, they sent us to kill him. He didn't survive the blast. But I... lived.  And I escaped with his research. Unfortunately I tested it on myself first, and lost my lungs and vocal chords in the process. But now I've perfected it, and you will get a first-hand experience.
 Does Ana know about this, about you?
No... and she never will. He glances at the SMART ROBOTS and Duke realizes.
You sick bastard... you did this to your own sister?
So, I had her brought here, gave her a way to deal with her pain, gave her purpose. Made her strong. I gave her a new life, Duke.
Why work for McCullen?
He saved my life, for starters. Now to mention infinite resources to work in the field of my choosing.
That's bullshit. You could have had any job you wanted.
I didn't want any job. You can't play nice with science, Duke. It's sometimes necessary to experiment, to fail, even to destroy to attain a goal. It's a fact that McCullen has the guts to embrace.
 Everything she's done, everything she's become, started because she thought you died that day.
And because you then abandoned her, let's not forget that part. And with that, he leaves Duke to the SMART ROBOTS, which menacingly begin to move in.
It's pressure plated and laser protected. Anyway around it?
No. Any object larger than a quarter will fry your britches. Snake-Eyes shakes his head with a sigh, then steps forward and leaps onto the floor, landing on his fingertips.
What you'll have to do is rewire the laser panel's brain by-- --Snake-Eyes swiftly balances on one set of fingertips while his other fingers grab his sword and STAB the laser panel. The sound of the laser net instantly vanishes.
.or you cold just stab it.
I don't have much time. She rushes over and unties him and they stare at each other, then kiss passionately. All of a sudden, Duke feels something behind her right ear, he turns her head, --an INCISION SCAR. He looks at her, but before he can say anything, Ana's body snaps rigid and falls limp in his arms.
Ana! Duke looks over to see the Doctor holding his PDA, McCullen and two Neo-Vipers beside him, their rifles on Duke and Ana. Duke gazes at Ana, desperately feeling for her pulse.
Let's get in this fight.
Okay, I've got a lock on the two remaining warheads. Target one is Moscow! Target Two is Washington!
Give Ripcord the coordinates.
The hull's been ruptured!
Everyone into the attack boats!
Keep tight everybody. He fires a HARPOON TORPEDO which BLASTS a Mantis. The mantis craft RETURN FIRE. The whole area explodes in a pulse fire and harpoon blasts. The Joe submarine sinks and EXPLODES at the base of the facility.
Is she still alive?
For now.
You said this couldn't happen.
I didn't think it could. I've never seen anyone defeat the programming, even momentarily. Duke recovers and angrily grabs one of Ana's PISTOLS and kills the two Neo-Vipers, then turns the gun on the others. The Doctor lifts his PDA, finger on the "TERMINATE" BUTTON.
If I press this, Ana dies.
Put it down.
Your choice, Duke.
Put it down! The Doctor doesn't move. McCullen watches the stand-off his right hand discreetly drawing STEEL HOSE out from his sleeve.
I see it, dead ahead.
You have to knock it down before it re-enters the atmosphere so the nano-mites don't reach the ground.
Uh, I've got a problem. The fire controls are not in here.
What do you mean, not in there?
I mean I can't see them anywhere!
It's gotta be voice-activated.
What?
You have to say the words into your flight helmet.
Fire!  Shoot!  Blast away! Still nothing, the missile streaking onwards towards the Earth.
Nothing's happening!
Must be a different language.
 Try "teine".
What?
It's Scottish for fire.
Teine.
Listen to my voice, "Teine".
Teine! Teine! Teine!  It's not working!
That's because you're not saying it right!
How many different ways you want me to say it?
One way! The right way! Teine!
Teine! And at last the PULSE LASER fires. Blasting the missile out of the sky. The CLOUD OF NANO-MITES floats aimlessly away.
Nice work, Ace. You just saved Moscow.
Just doing my job. Guide me to the other drone...
 .man, I freakin' saved Moscow!
How soon will it strike the city?
Seventeen minutes, Sir.
This will be a disaster the likes of which we have never seen. As the DOORS CLOSE behind them we see the MARS INDUSTRIES LOGO on the doors.
That cannon's going to kill us all.
My guy will take care of it, trust me.
It seems somebody's shot down the warhead heading for Moscow.
Thank God... As he says this, a SECRET SERVICE AGENT draws a SILENCED PISTOL and kills the other Agents and Staff. We see an INCISION SCAR behind his right ear and realize he is a Neo- Viper. The President stares, stunned and horrified. The Neo- Viper holds his pistol on the President as--
Second drone in my sights.
Hurry, Rip. You've only got thirty seconds before it enters the lower atmosphere.
Taine! But nothing happens. Scarlett's voice yells in his head.
Teine! Teine!
Don't yell at me!
Teine. Ripcord takes a breath, stealing his nerves. A RED FUEL LIGHT starts beeping on his control board. Rip does his best to ignore it, focusing on the missile as it begins to disappear into the lower atmosphere. The light beats faster and louder.
Teine! The LASER PULSE fires, blasting straight at the missile which is lost in the atmospheric haze below. For a moment, he can't tell if he hit it or not.
You missed! The warhead has entered the lower atmosphere!
Did you think she loved you?
Stay back!
Did you imagine your life with her?
I said stay back!
Don't you know you've lost, Duke?
All I know is that neither of you deserves her. McCullen suddenly lifts the STEEL HOSE in his right hand-- --A BURST OF FLAME tears out at Duke who reflexively fires the PULSE PISTOL at it. The intense air blast from the pulse pistol catches the flames midway between them and blows them back onto McCullen. McCullen SCREAMS as his face is literally burned off. The Doctor freaks and drops the PDA, then yanks McCullen out into the corridor. Duke fires after them, then grabs the PDA, removing Ana's screen with a sigh of relief.
You're too close, Rip. Back up.
Actually, I think I'm just about close enough...
Ripcord? What happened? Rip!
He's taking the nano-mites back up into the upper atmosphere.
Cur magh! The canopy explodes. Rip shoots back down into the atmosphere as the NANO-MITES devour the Night Raven, then float away...
He did it... He actually did it...
Ripcord? Talk to me...Ripcord! Still nothing. And now they begin to suspect the worst. Then:
I asked you not to yell at me. Relief comes rushing back to Scarlett and Breaker.
What happened? Are you okay?
Yeah, did it work?
Yes...yes, it worked.
 Good...cause I think I'm about to get arrested.
Master! Other NINJAS come flooding in.
That's Storm Shadow's sword!
There! There's the murderer!
You took your vow of silence to avenge our Master. But now you will die without a word. The LOUD NOISE gears up again, distracting Storm Shadow for just a beat. Snake-Eyes uses the moment to catch Storm shadow with his feet, holding him up for a split second as the ENERGY LASERS come back on. One of them burns deeply across Storm Shadow's neck, he SCREAMS and stumbles back and falls OVER THE EDGE and down into the freezing turgid waters. Snake- Eyes steps up and looks down to see if he surfaces... He doesn't.
Father always feared it would come to this. EXPLOSIONS begin to rock the shaft now. Snake-Eyes stumbles towards the exit, leaving his fallen Sword Brother behind.
Turbo-laser is down! He guns his engines, firing at a MANTIS attack craft. It EXPLODES. Heavy Duty howls with delight. Around him, the Joes begin to turn the tide of the battle. A SERIES OF SHOTS of Mantis vehicles getting nailed by Joe harpoon cannons.
Energy overload in the phased array battery. Power subsystems are going critical.
Let's get out of here! Scarlett grabs Breaker by the scruff of the neck and hauls him out of the room.
Snake! Snake-Eyes grimaces, then looks Scarlett in the eyes.
.he's dead. She knows who he means, she gives him a grim smile. And that's when they see Duke, carrying Ana, charging up to them. Another EXPLOSION makes them all dash into the diving bell. The doors close and we hear them launch.
We got a runner! Cut him off! All of a sudden, the whole damn facility EXPLODES. INSIDE THE DIVING BELL: Our heroes are rocked by the BLAST, then they see MASSIVE CHUNKS OF POLAR ICE plummet down from the ice pack above, cutting off Heavy Duty and the Joes, and DEMOLISHING the remainder of the facility. The Trident disappears behind the trillions of bubbles and falling ice.
All other targets neutralized.
I guess I should thank you, Doctor. The Doctor is busy fiddling with his hand held PDA.
I want you to call me... Commander.  And from now on, I'll be on a first name basis with you, Destro. McCullen's silver face goes blank.
Yes, Commander.
Physically, she's fine. But without the correctly-coded kill frequency, we can't short them out.
There's nothing you can do?
Only the man who put them in there has the correct code. Duke considers this carefully, staring at Ana.
I'll visit you.
I won't be here long.
You'll be here for the rest of your life, Ana. She looks at him, her face softening.
Duke?
I'm here.
After all I've done, .you can't save me, .it's too late. A BEAT passes between them.
I'll visit you. And for a moment, she appears to crack... but then a sinister smile creases her mouth.
You know, this has only just begun. She touches his face, then the PRISON BARS slam shut between them. She holds his eyes a moment longer, then the two Prison Guards lead her away. Duke just watches her go, his face torn with pain. He walks off alone...
With GI JOE reinstated, would you boys like to stay on awhile?
What do you say, Rip? Ripcord looks at Scarlett, who throws him a wink and a smile.
I'm good. They all laugh. Rip steps up to her.
So how do you feel about this?
I feel very... emotional. Duke smiles and the Joes climb aboard as the platform rises.
