Van Orton... Yes, it is my birthday, Bob, is that why you called...?  Ah... No, I'm not carrying Alan Baer another inch, fuck him, BG Lumber is history...
Ignore the rumors, Alan, you know me, of course I'm behind Baer- Grace a hundred per cent... great, see you at the shareholders' meeting next month...
I've got buyers for the BG paper mill, goose the lawyers, final papers in three weeks... sure it's sad, but an old dog loses its teeth and pisses itself, you put it to sleep...
Carol from the museum called. She's sending architect's sketches of the wing...
That Business Week reporter called again--
Tell him to fuck himself.  Nicely.
 --and, um, somebody who identified himself as, um, P.P. Willy.
Sorry, I figured it was a crank, but he swore you'd know who he was.  He wanted to meet you for lunch, I told him you had appointments all--
Cancel.  Cancel the whole afternoon.
But you--
Do it.  Did he leave a number?
No.  He just said he'd be at Leo's in the Haight.  At noon.
That's all, Maria.
Can I take your order?
I haven't seen the menu.
Oh, right.  Here, see ya.
An iced tea, please--
Yo, Sky.  Happy birthday.
 Thanks, "Pee-pee."  I never get tired of that.
Well... long time.
Yeah, since Mom died-- what, five years? So how you been?
Business as usual...
How's Elizabeth?  Any kids?
A little girl.
Congrat--
It's not mine, she married a pediatrician in Sausalito.
You're divorced...  Too bad, she was actually interesting.
She stopped drinking, I guess getting rid of me was the 13th step.
So you're all alone in the House of Pain.
I redecorated.  Where have you been?
All over.  Nowhere in particular. Didn't your fucking gumshoes keep you informed of my every movement?
I called them off two years ago, David.  You'd kicked the heroin, you'd left the ashram, you were windsurfing somewhere in Central America...
It's gorgeous down there... you should go sometime.
Look, are you in trouble, is there anything you need?  You can't have gone through the trust fund...
 That's not why I'm here, Sky, I just wanted to see you... I even brought a gift, for a change.
You didn't bake me a cake, did you?
You can't still be mad about the hash brownies...
Happy birthday, bro.
What is this.
It's a bomb.  Open it!
Consumer Recreation Services.  OK...
I can't tell you very much about it, that'd ruin the surprise.  Just promise me you'll give 'em a call.
I don't get it.
Just call 'em.  OK look, it's simple, really.  They entertain you.
Is this an escort service?
No, it's nothing like that. They're a business, they're for real... They guarantee just one thing-- you won't be bored.
They make your life fun.
Fun.
You've heard of it.
Sorry.
Just a cheesebur... how'd you find this place?
Old connection used to meet me here.  So you gonna call 'em?
 You know, David, this is sweet, but it's an awfully busy time, I'm in the midst of a delicate liquidation--
 "A delicate liquidation," God, you would do this...
David--
We can't get together once without you making me feel like shit.  That's important to you, isn't it?
What are you talking about?
Forget about it, don't bother.
Are you still on medication...?
You guys know what you want?
Go away.
I just thought you'd like it.  I did, it was a blast, best thing that ever happened to me.  And for your information, I'm not on anything anymore, I'm not even seeing a shrink, I'm in a better place than I've ever been, I'm even happy-- but that's something else I wouldn't be able to explain to you.
OK, OK, I'll give them a call...
Whatever.
Look, take a pill.  Just be normal for thirty seconds and tell me what this is.  I hate surprises.
I know.
Van Orton.
Hello, Schuyler.
Eleven forty, you almost didn't make it.
I always call on your birthday. How was it?
Oh, the usual, big party, circus clowns, naked lady in a cake...
 How are you, Sky?
I'm just fine.  How are you?
It wasn't a trick question. Thirty-eight, I thought that might be a-- a difficult year for you...
Hm?  Just another birthday, another year closer to death.
I meant-- because of your father.
Oh that's right, I guess he was 38, wasn't he?  I hadn't thought about it, to tell the truth, but thank you for the reminder.
Why do I call you...
I honestly don't know, but it's a nice change of pace from talking to your attorneys.  So, still working at the hospice?
Mm-hmm, couple days a week...
Great, that's great.  Well, give my regards to Dr. Mel and the baby--
She has a little brother on the way... we just did the ultrasound.
Really.  Congratulations-- two kids, an official nuclear family, you must be very happy.
We are, Sky.  Very happy.
Well, you deserved someone who wanted the same things you did--
Are you?  Happy?
Speaking of little brothers, I saw David today.
Really?
He asked about you.  He's on a new kick, some personal improvement cult. I'm gonna check it out, I'm sure he's getting fleeced again.
Who knows, maybe it'll be good for you.  Send David my love.
Right.  Well, thanks again for calling, Elizabeth, take care.
You too, Schuyler-- I mean that--
Mm, good luck, bye.
--for the residents of the Crescent Heights project, a truly tragic day is over at last--
I'll drink to that.
--up next, the latest in sports. For all of us here at CNN, thank you for watching--
Can I help you?
Is this Consumer Recreation Services?  I have an appointment, the name's Van Orton.
Hm... I don't seem to--
Schuyler Van Orton, I called last week.
Problem?
This gentlemen says he has an appointment, but...
Van Orton, huh?  I'll take him.  Jim Feingold, v. p. in charge of engineering and data analysis.
Sorry about the chaos, we're still in the process of moving... follow me, I've got an office around here someplace.
I can't remember the last time I ate in a restaurant, all I do is work...
I know what you mean.  Look-- what is all this?
Application, MMPI and TAT tests, financial statement...  Want some?  Tung Hoy, best in Chinatown...  The tests serve a threefold purpose. First off, are you right for us? Are we right for you?  Unfortunately, there's a limited number of slots--
Let's back up here--
 B, we need an idea of your abilities and limitations, what turns you on, and off.  Numero tres, our insurance company requires it.  You're familiar with our service, aren't you?
Not at all.  What are you selling?
Well... it's a game.
A game.
Recharges the batteries, gets you off the treadmill, it's an experience.  Sort of a-- vacation for the guy who's been everywhere.
This really doesn't sound like my sort of--
What's so amusing?
Nothing.  I know who you are. You're David Van Orton's brother, he got you in here.
So.
 David was-- impressive, one of the better I've seen.  But frankly, I can see you're not the type.
The type.
You know, a player.
I'm not a player.
I don't mean anything personal by it-- I know you're an important guy, powerful guy, you're used to being on top.  It's just, this isn't for everyone.  Not everyone can handle it.
 What kind of fu-- game is this?
The ultimate fucking game.  I wish I could tell you more, but it's different every time.  Thanks for coming in--
 I'm not an idiot.  I see what you're doing.  First the vague yet intriguing pitch, then I'm supposed to feel like my manhood's in question because I'm not up for, what, some motivational role-playing fantasy nonsense--
Interesting, you don't know the first thing about it but you've already decided what it is... Listen, I don't wanna waste any more--
Please, Jim, cut the hard-to-get shit.  I've got the afternoon free, I'll take your silly tests.
Ms. Nelson, are you busy?  We need someone to run Mr. Van Orton.
This way, sir...
I'll catch up with you after the physical.
David, you suck.
Sorry to keep you waiting, a client's head exploded...  You can get dressed, we're done.
Looks promising at this point. You test well, you're in decent shape for someone in your tax bracket... Hm, some resistance to the psych questions, but we got the general idea...
We design the game around your schedule, you're free to give it as much or as little time as you wish.  And of course, you can call it quits at any point.
This was actually a gift.  Did my brother pay in advance?
You'd have to ask our billing department... the price varies.  But our service comes with a guarantee. If you're not satisfied, there's no charge.  And we've never had an unsatisfied customer...
You mean dissatisfied.
 Mm, that's right-- you're a left- brain word fetishist.
I get that all the time.
So I'm supposed to sign up for a game when I don't know the rules, I don't know the object, I don't know how much it costs...
It's a leap of faith.  But at this stage, there's no commitment-- we just need to process your application.  And if you qualify, you're in for the ride of your life.  What have you got to lose?
Initials-- initials-- sign here.
In blood.  ---Just kidding.
Very good, Mr. Van Orton.  Please, keep the pen.
When can I expect to hear--
We'll be in touch.
David, where the hell are you, we were supposed to meet at the club--
Oh, shit, sorry Sky, I spaced-- next Tuesday?
I'll be in Seattle.
Buy you lunch soon as you get back, I swear...
I checked out CRS by the way--
Hey, great, you gonna go for it?
Haven't decided yet...
--like fuckin' wildfire, just opened an office in Frisco here--
I played my game in New York... What do you think John, will CRS ever go public?
 Not likely, would you?
New members?
I believe so.
This round's on me.
...last time I played Pebble, I swore I'd never pick up a club again...
Great thing about golf, the way it takes you out of your life... Speaking of games-- I take it you two are familiar with CRS...?
Uh-oh.  Time to piss...
Why do you ask, Schuyler?
I couldn't help overhearing--
We don't usually talk about it.
I only bring it up because, well, I recently tested for it.
Did you?  Kudos.
I just wasn't sure if they're for real, whether it's worth it--
Worth it... Gee, I dunno... they did save my fucking life...
Sorry?
Look, I don't know you, you don't know me, but... I hit a certain point, nothing meant anything.  My work, the wife and kids-- hell with 'em, I was sick of it all, y'know?  But CRS... they changed everything.  "Are they for real?"  Who cares, maybe nothing is.  To reality.
C'mon Pete.
 Good luck, pal.  You'll need it.
Excuse me.  Excuse me!  Postponing the Baer-Grace meeting is out of the question.  Schuyler gets on a plane for Washington tomorrow morning at seven with every contract, every side agreement, the complete closing package!
But there's simply no--
No is not an option.  If you fail to recognize that, I'll find ten other law firms in the yellow pages that can get the job done--
 Yes.
Mr. Van Orton?
Yes, who is this?
This is Cynthia at CRS...
What?!  How did you get this number?
I'm just calling to inform you that we've finished processing your application--
I'm in a meeting--
--and I'm afraid you didn't qualify.
--so I don't have time for--  Excuse me, what was that?
Well... your application was rejected.
...Why?
Oh, I'm afraid I don't have that information, but-- many applicants don't meet the criteria.  We apologize, we hope it hasn't caused you any inconvenience--
This is absurd--
Thank you for thinking of CRS.
Bad news, Sky?
No, nothing.  Sorry, Bob.  So were there any more questions, or may I assume it's under control...
Hello!  What are you doing here?
Wonderful.  You OK?  You dead?
Shit, shit, shit...
...the bill goes before the House next week, where it's expected to meet stiff opposition--  Wait, this just in...
The U. S. geological service has detected a massive disturbance in the earth's crust deep beneath the northern segment of the San Andreas fault...
...they have issued a warning that a major earthquake of magnitude eight or greater is likely to hit the San Francisco Bay area within...  Oh my God, the next fifteen minutes--
There is no time for an evacuation. The federal government has issued the following instructions for all residents of central and northern California...
Locate emergency shut-offs for all power and gas--
Wait, there's no time for that-- just stay away from windows and doors--
Find a heavy piece of furniture such as a desk or table and get under it--
If no such furniture is immediately available, go to a window or doorway--
But first turn off all power and gas. Crouch in a comfortable position, put your head between your knees and cover it with your arms--
Then KISS YOUR LILY-WHITE ASS GOODBYE!
Howdy Sky.
Que pasa?
Welcome to the Game! Congratulations on your decision to let Consumer Recreation Services entertain you.
Fuckers!
This might be a good time to lay out a few ground rules, help you enjoy your adventure.  You've received the first key.  There will be others. Pay attention-- you never know where you'll find 'em, you never know when you'll need 'em, so keep 'em with you at all times...
You might want to write this number down, it's the CRS hotline, operators are standing by to assist... but please don't call to ask what the object of the game is-- figuring that out is the object of the game...
--reaction on wall Street was muted following the Fed's announcement of...
You've reached CRS...
Yeah, this is pretty impressive but listen--
Our office is closed.  Please call back during business hours. 
My name is Schuyler Van Orton, my game just started.  Look, this is a bad time, I'm about to leave town--
I'm expecting a package with some documents.  Did it arrive?
Ay mon, got sometin' fo you mon.
 Get lost, pal.
No can do.
Bob, it's Sky, what the hell is going on?  No, the papers aren't here, you'll have to fax signature copies straight to the BG offices now.  Yeah I'll hold.
You want what I got, mon.
 No thank you.
Dere are many paths to enlightenment, but you must choose one and stay on it-- or you will surely die in the darkness--
I'll take my chances.
What?!  Fire their asses, that's it.
Jah Love mon, dat's the key, dat's the key...
Alan!  What's wrong with a car--
I'm giving you an overview of our little operation!  You gotta see the new breed of high yield saplings...
How was your flight?
Fine.
You've been planning this for months, haven't you?  Sandbagging me like this, selling us for scrap...
BG lumber is not profitable and hasn't been for years, my duty is to salvage what I can.  These are the closing papers, in ten minutes I'm going to present the sale terms to the shareholders and elect my new management team.
I was friends with your father, you bastard, I watched you grow up, and now you kick me in the balls--
That's not how you play the game.
You could've fucking told me!
What game?
Never mind... we'll just have to go with the earlier draft.
Can't find your keys?
Where are they.
Up your ass?
Up my ass, very funny...
I don't-- OK.  OK, you're with CRS...
So the game, it's just a screen, to blow this deal...
I'm not following you.
Like hell you aren't.  How did you get my brother involved, that's unforgivable.
Um... sorry to interrupt.  We've been having some trouble with this fax, so they re-sent the material. It's all OK now.
Oh and Mr. Van Orton-- are these yours?  The pilot found 'em on the floor of the chopper...
Everything seems to be in order. Please disregard my last comments. The shareholders meeting is about to get underway... Shall we?
Shit mon sorry oughta pay more attention.
Listen, I quit.
Free at last... you won't be needin' this, then.
No, cretin.  I'm quitting the game.
Wha's that, mon?  I didna hear you.
I said I-- shit!
Help, help!  The mon is crazy!
Where is it?
Got something better.
I realize you're just some bit player, but I'd like you to get a message to your employers.  This bullshit is interfering with my work, it's breaking my concentration and I can't allow that to happen--
If I take that stupid key, will you give me back my briefcase and go away?
What the fuck am I doing?!
Don' worry, mon, it's a world a shit.
So try looking at it through rose- colored glasses... here.
I told you, this is over!  I quit!
They all say that at first.
I was supposed to meet someone here, a David Van Orton-- I was wondering if he'd left a message.
'Fraid not, sorry.
Fuck me!
Oh this is cute.  Very cute.
What happened here, you OK?
It was an accident--
No it wasn't.
What's next, a giant banana peel?
Huh?  Oh I get it-- you're nuts.
Chrissy, just apologize...
Dickhead here was on the phone, he walked right into me!
Drop the act, you've been waiting all day for this moment.
Shut the fuck up.
Go home, you're fired.
What?...
You heard me.
Fuck you too.
Let's get this over with... Where's the next key?  Does she have it?
I wish you people could be a little more subtle.
Asshole, just send me the goddamn dry-cleaning bill.  Could you--?
Don't you have something for me?
Uh-huh sure, here you go.
Wait, you really work here--
Not anymore, thanks to you.
Slow down-- you don't understand, I thought it was a gag.
No, you don't understand.  I carry mace and I know how to use it.
I was only trying to apologize.
Shit, it's in here somewhere--
Fine.
Shit--
You got a fucking phone, call an ambulance!
This is just too weird-- it can't be real--
You really are insane!
We need an ambulance, guy's having a heart attack near the MUNI station at 5th and Market--  What's the number on this thing?!
I don't give it out--  731-5723--
731-5723-- yeah, thanks--
Is there anything I can do?
 Could you come with us, help us fill out a few forms--
No!  I have work to do--
I'll go.
Wait a minute, you've got my phone--
Chill, will you?!
I don't want to be here.
Neither do I, now siddown, get outta their way!
I'd like my phone back please.
Oh, this day keeps getting better.
What is your problem, you think the whole fucking world revolves around you?
As a matter of fact...
What the fuck is going on?!
It's a little hard to explain...
Try!
I seem to be playing a game.  This is supposed to be funny--
I don't get it.
--a challenge, a puzzle.
OK, I'm puzzled.  Where are we?
Damn it, no signal.
Here's a lightswitch--
I wouldn't--
I don't know the rules, if there are any, but it seems the obvious move usually backfires...
Of course.  I have no idea what you're talking about.
Son of a bitch.
I think I have a key.
Damn it...  Wrong key...
Last match.
Too bright for you, is it?
I can see now.  Grab my arm.
No way!  You're crazy!
Stay on the path!
Christine, don't move!
Leave me alone!
Help!
Aaggh!  BUGS!!
Where are the glasses?!
Fuck the glasses!
We can't get out of here without them!
They're rubber.  Hold onto me, I'll get us out of here.
Ha!
Fine, stay.
No!
What's your favorite color?
...Blue?
Wow... OK, this is kinda cool.  Hey!
Sorry, it's my game.  But we'll take blue.
Talk about the blind leading the blind... what's your name anyway?
Sky Van Orton.
Sky?  Were your folks hippies or something?
Far from it.
I'm Christine Kaminsky.
Nice to meet you.
It's a company called Consumer Recreation Services, CRS.  I never know what's gonna happen next.
Well, who does.
Until recently, I had a pretty good idea... Duck.
So are you like a serious masochist, or just really, really bored?
I'm sorry, you shouldn't have been dragged into this.
Well... I have to tell you something.  Some guy came into Leo's yesterday, showed me your picture, offered me 250 bucks to spill that food on you.
Ah.
Said it was a practical joke.  I figured what the hell, I can use the money-- I got him up to 500. I hated that fucking job anyway--
Wait, so the heart attack, you knew that was a joke too--
No!  It scared the shit out of me--
But that CPR routine--
I used to be a lifeguard.
 We're getting somewhere...
How do we get up there?
Well, that was pointless... but different... kind of fun...
Mm, a different kind of fun. What's your middle name?
Louise... why?
You're supposed to be here... they picked you for a reason.
But-- why?
Probably knew you'd play Good Samaritan for that guy, drag me along-- but they could have hired an actor for that, less of a risk...
This is really sick.  I think they're trying to fix us up.
Maybe you can't play alone--
Who says I want to play?  OK, what the fuck are you doing in the dumpster.
There's something in here I need.
What's that for?
I imagine I'll find out.
What are you looking at?
This is their offices.  We must have been in their garage... my office is just a few blocks from here, we can get cleaned up there.
Your turn.
 Find everything you need?
You're outta conditioner.
My apologies, I'll have it taken care of.  Help yourself to the fridge.
So um... how rich are you anyway?
 Rich enough.  Bit forward, aren't you?
Well, what exactly do you do?
Manage investments, some venture capital, I'm on the board of a number of publicly traded companies...
So you just like, move money around?
Basically.  Beats working, huh?
You don't look so bad, without the tie.
Look, I hope you haven't been too put out... I could probably get you another job, I have a stake in a couple of restaurants--
I'm not much of a waitress, really. Y'know, today's been kind of--
Can you type?
Kind of a turn-on, you know?  I didn't mean-- just, the danger... Like fucking in a graveyard.
Mm.  So where do you live?
Out in Concord, with my folks, unfortunately.  They're never gonna believe that I've been hanging out with a guy like you.
What do you mean?
Nothing, just-- most of the guys I see have tats, y'know?  Tattoos...
Of course.  We'd better head downstairs, the limo's waiting.
Mind if I smoke in here?
Yes.  Up here on the left.
So what's our next move?  I mean, in the game.  Obviously we need to figure out what that crank thing is for--
I'm not playing anymore.
 Why not?
I have a life.  Jack'll take you home, or wherever you want to go.
Yeah, maybe I'll get in a little ballroom dancing before bed--
Wait, what about your clothes?
Forget it.
C'mon it's a brand new sweatshirt.
No, it's not-- just-- back from the cleaners.
 You dry clean your sweatshirts...
See ya.
Good night.
Drive.  Anywhere.
Jesus, David, you scared the shit out of me--
I'm sorry Sky, just drive, please--
Where were you today?
I almost didn't make it at all.  I been in the bar for hours, waiting for you to come back to your car-- Jesus, I can't believe I did this to you, I'm so sorry--
Slow down, take a breath-- what are you talking about?
The game!  It just doesn't stop! I thought I'd finished playing a long time ago, I paid the bill, then it started all over again, they won't leave me alone--
 Calm down.  What are they doing to you?
Everything.  It just doesn't stop.
Look.  That's crazy.  Yes, it's a pain in the ass, but why would they keep playing once you paid them?
I don't know!  I paid them MORE to make it stop, God help me I even gave you to them... but they won't leave me alone!
What's this?
It was on my windshield--
Oh shit, oh SHIT they must be following us--
They're shooting at us!
David, get a grip, it's just a flat tire!
Damn it, the phone's not working--
Of course not.
 Fine, I'll change the fucking thing myself.
Just hurry-- I'll pop the trunk.
No, you can't do it from--
What the fuck are those--
 Like you don't know.  Sonofabitch, they got to you first, didn't they?
Um, David-- hello?
It's more than that isn't it?  You're part of it, you're one of them!  Of course, it makes perfect sense!
They planted those keys!  I don't know what the hell they're for--
You're behind the whole thing aren't you?  You and your sick fucking friends set it up--
What?!  What friends?  Get a grip, David-- why would I do that?
I don't know, out of boredom, to get back at me--
For what?!
For being a weirdo, for trying to be happy?  Well, congratulations, you win.  Now make it stop!
 I can't!  Listen to me--
Fuck you!
What have you done to my brother, you bastards?!  This is over, I'm not playing anymore--  Hello, is anyone there--
If you'd like to make a call, please hang up and dial again-- if you need help--
Six three six Mission, please.
You're heading the wrong way.
Relax, pal, you'll get where you're going.
Why are you doing this--
We do it all for you!  We're the best friends you got, no one ever worked so hard to make you feel alive... but you gotta let it happen...
What the fuck is this--
Have a nice day...
Mister-- are you all right?!
Thank you... I'm very grateful.
Shouldn't swim in the Bay, you could get hepatitis.
I have to get in touch with the police.
You're freezing, I got some dry clothes below.
Do you need any help?
Uh, no.  I'm fine.  These fit...  ...perfectly.
Sure I can't do something for you?
I am finished playing.
OW!  Let go!
This has got to fucking STOP!
You're hurting me!
Who are you!?
I just got hired to show you a good time!  C'mon please get off me...
I am not into this kinda shit!
Who hired you.
I don't know, the service set it up.
The service?
Y'know, Fantasy Girls.  They said you had this wild fantasy, I should just wait in the boat...
Doncha want your thing?  I'm supposed to give you this, this key thingie...
A key.
They said you'd figure out what to do with it.
I'm supposed to carry a fucking hatchet around...?  Relax.  I don't want it.
Thank you for your promptness, officers.  I'm Robert Plympton, Mr. Van Orton's attorney--
Let's go.  Seventh floor.
Management company for the building said this floor hasn't been rented.  We checked with the Secretary of State and the county recorder, there's no listing of a "consumer research service."
Recreation service.
Right.  No sign of the boat or the girl.  Divers got the cab's vehicle ID, the company junked it a month ago.
The numbers you gave us are disconnected, sir, this was the only address the phone company had.  And we found your car-- it's in impound.
I'm a little confused as to motive here.  You said your brother sent you to these people...
It's not his fault, he's unstable, he didn't know what he was doing--
And they were supposed to show you a, a good time?
 My guess is this Feingold guy's using an alias... is there anything else you can tell us about him?
He likes Chinese food...
Don't worry, Mr. Van Orton, we'll get these jokers.
There's clearly a civil case once we locate the defendant...
Whatever.
Y'know, Sky, things are quiet since the closing-- you could take some time off.
Oh, God--
Don't touch that dial, Sky!
Boy oh boy, you fucked up big-time! Bringing in the cops-- real mistake!
No no no--
Oh you're always so negative...
You people are insane...
Hey, look who's talking to their TV set.
How did you do this, how did you get in here?
Simple, we duped your keys the day you came in for your physical, wired the whole house while you were at work. You rich people all have alarms, but you never set 'em, do you?
Look, at least leave my brother alone, he's fragile enough as it is--
Don't worry about him, he's just playing his own game-- at a more advanced level, you might say...
You can't just fuck with people like this, you don't know who you're dealing with!
 We know exactly who we're dealing with, that's the whole idea!  For a guy with your test scores, you're pretty slow on the uptake.
What the fuck do you want from me?!
Sky, I just came to say good- bye... Too bad it didn't work out, better luck next time.  Uh, there might be a few loose ends for you to tie up, but remember-- it's not whether you win or lose that counts, it's how you play the game... ya big loser you...
Ouch!  Take it easy, my hot-headed friend!
Holy smoke, this was an expensive TV--
Now what?!
 Is this Schuyler Van Orton?
Yeah, who's this?
I'm calling from the Claremont Hotel in Berkeley... we have your American Express card, you left it at the check-in desk...
What?  That's impossible, I've never stayed there--
Are you sure, sir?
Son of a bitch.
Hello, Mr. Van Orton.
Mr. Van Orton.  Here's your credit card... and the maid found this under the bed...
That isn't mine.
It has your initials on it, sir.
We'd just as soon you took it with you, in any event... and in the future, you might consider choosing another hotel for your...
I've never been here before in my life!
Jack... the woman you took home the other night, where did you go?
 Out to Concord...
I know, what was the address?
Mmm... it was... Beulah Drive, I think, yeah, offa Oakdale... but didn't you-- never mind.
What?
Just-- I thought you followed us there.  There was a black 500SE behind us the whole way, I just assumed...
Shit.  Shit!  It wasn't me, Jack.
Of course, sir.  It was a white house, I remember... big tree in the front... with one of those, you know, tire swings...
Jack, I'm serious.  It wasn't me.
It wasn't you, sir.
Triple A changed your tire... bad blow-out was it?  Anyone hurt?
Oh.  Just... we were a little curious about the mess in the back...
A friend's dog-- he'd been hit by a car, I drove him to the vet...  Golden retriever, beautiful animal.
 He OK?
Too early to say.
Yes?
Mr. Kaminsky?  Schuyler Van Orton--
Is that a name?  Look, I'm kinda busy. 
You have a daughter named Christine?  I'm afraid she might be in danger.
Daddy?  Who is it?
Sky?  Hi, Sky.
Well, I'm gonna get back to that carburetor... nice meeting you.
I didn't think I'd-- what are you doing here?
Last night, when Jack dropped you off-- did anything happen?
No... unfortunately.
I thought-- eh, you don't wanna know.
Come on--
I thought they kidnapped you, tortured you--
What?  Who?
CRS... I saw pictures, girl with a tattoo on her shoulder like yours--
 Ssh, my folks don't know about that yet.  So, what-- they wanted ransom from you or something?
No, I thought they were trying to frame me, they planted evidence...
Why would they do that?
I have no idea, nothing they do makes any sense.  Forget it, it's just a game.
So that's the only reason you came out here to East Hell, your stupid goddamn game.
I was worried about you.  I wanted to see you again.
 If you pretend to mean that, I'll pretend to believe it.  Well, looks like your pals are trying to keep us together.  Buy me dinner at least?
Sure, why not.
 I look like a slob, let me change.
Can you get us into Chez Panisse?  I always wanted to eat there--
Is that you?
 Mm-hmm, First Communion.  What's the matter, you look a little green around the gills--
Don't touch me.
Don't be stupid.  Don't say anything, not here, they're watching.
 God damn it...
 OK, I know a good place we could go and like, be alone...
It's a beautiful night, isn't it?
There's four of them in the van, they're armed.  Just play along, I'll get us out of here--
Fuck you.  OK, that's it, game over--
--you can come out now, assholes--
We're blown, let's do it--
You idiot!  Come on!
No, enough already.  I've had it.
Now what.
Get away from there!!
 Oh, now I suppose they're going to--
Holy shit!!
What is this!?
God, wake up, it's a con game!
Watch out!!
OK, we lost 'em--
What are you doing!?
Get out of my car.
I coulda handed you to them!  They find me now I'm dead--
Listen to me you bastard-- I know what's going on!  No one else is gonna tell you!
Get in.
You can talk while I drive to the police station.
No cops, I got an outstanding warrant.  Mail fraud.  I'll get nailed, but you'll never be able to prove a thing. Just drive.
Heard about this big swindle and-- I needed the money.  You wouldn't know what that's like.
Spare me the snide comments.  And please don't do that in here--
Second-hand smoke is the least of your problems.  Shit, they really screwed up, I can't believe they didn't take the time to get the house right.
Wait, how did-- before the game, you were working in that bar--
They planted me in advance, your brother set you up.
Oh God, David's in on it...?
It's not his fault, he thought it was the only way out... just another victim.
How the hell did they think they were gonna get my money?
Honey, they already got it.
You don't believe me, check your bank accounts.  Listen, that night in your office, remember?  I downloaded files off your computer while you were in the shower...
I stuck in a code-breaking program to glve CRS remote access to Van Orton Group files...
--you'd already given them everything else they needed.  Your handwriting, voice samples, personal information, all the tests you took... they used the data to generate your passwords.
From there they just had to break into the financial networks, transfer your holdings into some dummy accounts--
Remember Jim Feingold, guy who signed you up?  He's one of the original hackers, did a five-year stretch for zapping Citibank.
He's not some dweeb flunkie, he runs the whole show.
I'm sorry.  They already did your brother, I guess they figured you for a family of suckers...
Overseas operator?  Please dial the number for Allgemeine Bank in Zurich...
Bet you haven't really been taking care of business the past few days, huh?  This "game," the psych shit about your dad going sui...
Guten tag-- Vilen dank, Englisch...
All of it was just to buy time, keep you from paying attention...
Blue Two-Five... 6-9-0-D... Yes, I consent to voice-print... My name is Schuyler Van Orton.  I'd like to know my balance, please... that account is closed?!
I think maybe you should pull over...
Bob, listen carefully, this is an emergency.  Feingold and his people, I've called all my banks, they've drained the accounts, personal and corporate, everything-- tell the cops I've got one of them with me, we'll make her testify.  They're trying to kill us, I'm heading for the island in Oregon, if I can still find it. Bob-- call when you get this message and-- be extremely careful...
They say I gotta confiscate your card...
I think I have some cash.
Money isn't everything, right?
It might be best if you didn't speak.  I very nearly crushed your skull just now.
C'mon chill, what'd they take you for, a couple hundred G's?  Chump change for a guy like you, chalk it up to experience.
 Just under a billion dollars.
A bil--?  You're kidding, right?
Do I look like I'm kidding? This is about more than my personal lifestyle-- your pals raided pension plans, charitable foundations, company payrolls...
Oh my God--
I don't know what kind of jerk-off con games you've played in the past, but now you're in the big leagues, hon.  You just helped sabotage a small portion of the national economy-- and destroy a whole lotta lives.
You're not having any?
Never drink it.  Makes my tits hurt.
Hold still.
Sorry, this place hasn't been cleaned in a while.  My dad built it himself, spent a lot of time here alone.  Rotten carpenter...
Thank you.
What's so funny?
Just-- private joke...
Tell me.
Well... I always told myself I wasn't gonna end up like him.  And now here I am, running his corporation, living in his house, hiding in the cabin where he went to hide right before he... I even look like the bastard.
Not that much.
Mm, plus I'm a helluva lot more gullible than he ever was...
Yes.
 It's me, Schuyler... I got your message... I'll admlt, I was very disturbed...
 My, lawyer.  So.  What's our next move?
I've been on the phone all morning... your funds are intact, nothing's changed, there's been no activity whatsoever...
Wait-- that's not true--
 It is true, no one is after your money, no one is trying to hurt you--
He's in on it.
Oh, God...
Listen to me, Sky!
What are they paying you, Robert? Piece of the action?
Schuyler!  Look, you've done the right thing going up there, maybe it's best if you just sit tight for a while, forget about everything, it's all under control--
We have to get out of here!
Well, that was stupid.
OK, they've gotten to him.  OK. Is there anyone I can trust?
Mm... I wouldn't worry about it.
 What do you mean?
It's out of your hands.
Christine!!
That's not my name.
Why...
We needed you to call your banks. Cellular calls can be intercepted, rerouted, y'know.
All those calls to Switzerland and Chase Manhattan-- you were talking to our people.  See, we were still missing a lotta pieces-- access codes, passwords, stuff even Plyrnpton didn't have-- but now we have I everything.  I guess you are pretty fucking stupid-- but thanks.
It's over.  Just let go...
What?
Where am I?!
Please, help me, I'm an American! I'm lost!  Please!!
Hello.  Where am I?
Tegucigalpa.  Tegucigalpa.  Tegucigalpa?
That's gibberish!
 It is the capital of Honduras.
Right.
So-- you have become, lost from, from your father...?
My father's dead, God damn it.  I have to get to the United States embassy.
Do you know what this says?
"I am an American.  I am an idiot. My father is very rich.  If I become lost, please take me to the police.  There is a reward."
Mr. Van Orton... is this a joke of some sort?  What are you doing here?
I don't know.
 Well, without any identification it will take at least a week to get you a temporary visa--
 A week?!  Christ knows what they can do in a week-- and what the hell am I supposed to, to live on?!  What day is it anyway?  Where's the nearest pawn shop?
Yeah, well I, I seem to have lost my passport...
Huh, close enough...
No.  Fuck you... I'm going to live...
The medication seems to be helping. Unfortunately we're going to have to transfer your brother to a public institution in a few days, his funds are entirely exhausted-- unless you're prepared to take responsibility...
David...
Hello Sky...
What are you doing here?
Sorry, I was just eating...  I'm much better.  Really.
Thank God... Listen, I know you put them onto me-- but I understand, we're both victims of this thing... They've stolen everything we ever had, they're trying to drive us both crazy-- but we won't let them. We'll find a way.  There's gotta be a way to beat these bastards!  We're in it together...
In what together?
The game.
Oh, Schuyler, there is no game.  It was just a fantasy of mine, a self- aggrandizing delusion... I can't believe you took that shit seriously.
 No, David-- please...
 Oh, man, stop fucking with me! You know the game doesn't exist... it never did!  It never did...
Can you see?
So the waitress was in on it--
She isn't really a waitress.
--and now you're brother's been institutionalized... is there a history of mental illness in your family?
'Scuse me.
Whatcha reading?
Nothing.
I just spoke with his lawyer Plympton, he thinks Van Orton's having a nervous breakdown, we should probably hold onto him till his people can get down here...
Probably just your keys, sir--
Yo, Schuyler, wait up--
End of the line, man.
Are the tattoos supposed to mean something?
 Yeah, they mean you're dead, you don't gimme what you got.
 OK, there's the C...
Give me the fucking bag!
 Come on, you're not going to put me through all this shit and then kill me on a fucking train, it won't look like a suicide...
Freeze assholes!
Psycho pulled a knife on me!
What do you think you're doing, this guy attacked me!
Wait here--
Hello Elizabeth...
I'm sorry, I shouldn't be bothering you-- you're a genuinely good person, your work is important, it's real, nothing that happens to me is real anymore--
What has happened to you, Sky?
I need your help, you're the only one left, the only one I can trust-- not that I deserve your help, God how could you have even married me, I was a shit to you--
No you weren't--
Yes I was.  Sometimes I think I'm being punished for my sins, I mean, there has to be a reason...
This is one of their devices, I pulled it off their assassin in the subway.  It's how they communicate with each other.
It's... a radio...
I can't find the right channel... Listen, I may not make it through this-- if anything happens, get that notebook to, to, the press, or the FBI or something.  Someone you can trust, I don't know, assuming you can trust anyone.  I just want you to know I'm not crazy, and I didn't kill myself, no matter what they say--
Has this been opened?
No sir.  Just like you said.
I don't think coffee is safe.
Schuyler, try and listen to me.  I love you, I always have, I always will.  And maybe this is... good. Maybe this a point you had to reach, before--
 Before what?
Before-- I'm just glad you came to me for help.  I don't know if I'm strong enough to, to handle this on my own but I know a lot of excellent crisis people--
Crisis people.  Crisis people?
Hello?  Hi, hon, I'm OK... um, could I call you back...?
You bastard!  You fucking bastard! How did you find me here!?
Ooof-- my head is killing me!
Fuck you!
Who are you?
Honey, have you taken anything?
Sure, some aspirin--
He's an actor...
Of course he's an actor, it's a commercial.
 He's just a fucking actor...
My head feels great!  Thanks to Ambutol, I'll never use aspirin again!
Have you taken something?
What?
Are you on drugs?
Schuyler, I'm calling a friend right now, I want you to wait here with me until--
Elizabeth, please... I'm sorry, I'II be alright, it's just been a hard day... Listen, I gotta use the restroom, be right back--
He's an actor, does TV commercials, I know he's ordered from you, he had food delivered to an office building on Mission--
Many customers, very busy, I don't know, I don't know--
Damn it!
Stop that, what you doing?!
Yes, Mrs. Fisher, I know it's short notice but we were hoping your husband could come in for an audition today, he's perfect...
Isn't there any way we can get in touch with him now...?  I see...
Bill Fisher, hi!  I really admire your work...
Oh please... I got my kids here...
Get rid of them.
 Hey, everyone-- here's a twenty! Snack time!
Look, buddy, it was just a job-- nothing personal, y'know?  I play my part, improvise a little, that's what I'm good at, I still do a little stand-up--
I've seen your resume.  I'm sick of foot soldiers, I've gotta get to whoever's in charge.
Of CRS?  Christ, nobody knows, nobody gets the big picture--  Jason, Tommy, cut it out!
Goddammit, why do they do that.
How do I find them!?  Their offices were abandoned--
They own the whole building, they just move from floor to floor.
OK... They know you, you've worked for them.  You're going to get me inside.
 Uh-uh, I'm sorry and all, but--
Tell them anything, tell them the cops are after you, you've gotta talk to someone or you'll blow the whistle.
No way, it's too dangerous.
You don't seem to understand.  Right here, right now-- I'm the danger.
We're here, Sky.  They said they're on the twelfth floor.
Drive in, then.
Look-- what are you gonna do?  Really?
Really-- I don't know.  Improvise.  Go!
You're not authorized to be here.
Yo!
You're a dead man.
What are you doing here?
I'm back from the dead.
Listen, everything's OK, nobody touched your money, nobody stole a thing, that's impossible--
I don't give a fuck about the money, I wanna know who's behind this, who did this to me, how, why--
It's just a game!
You're not going anywhere. Feingold, or or Fisher, was that just a game too?
What are you talking about?
I watched him die...
Seemed like a nice guy, actually, father of three--
Well, look, I'm sure it's just another stunt-- that can't be real, taste it.
You taste it, you fucking vampire.
Could you come with us, please? You're not authorized to be here.
Back off.  Everybody back off.
Shit, how do we get out--
Wait a minute.  What's that?
It's my gun...
We didn't give it to you?  Where did it come from?
A gun store.
We searched your house!
Guess you fucked up again.
He's armed, he's got a real gun. Real Situation, real--
Yeah, it's real all right.
Schuyler this is all fake, tricks, it's all part of the game--
Stop it.  Every word out of your mouth is a lie--
The key!!  They, we gave you a key to the elevator!  Why would we do that?!  We wanted you to come up--
Of course you did.  So you could kill me or, or frame me for murder--
No, no, it's THE GAME!!  Blanks, squibs, high-tech special effects, none of it's real!  Just open that door and I'll show you!
I open the door and I die.
You move again I swear I'll kill you, you bitch.
THINK ABOUT IT!!  They followed you every step of the way, the cab, in the trunk, we had a diver--
They?  We?
--the guy in Honduras, the cop on the train, there was always a safety net, always--
Shut up, shut the fuck up!!
--just hang in there, keep talking him down, we're on our way--
We've been trying to end it since you got back, our people came to your house, they tried to bring you in from the subway, you kept running, you weren't supposed to keep getting lost--
You just said you wanted me to come here-- you're making this up as you go along!
Please Sky, please.  Take a breath and think about it!
Stop.  Fucking.  With my head!
You're all right, it's OK, just relax...
Are you there?  How's he doing?
Please... when you open the door, the game ends... just open the door... Bill Fisher's out there, he's fine, nobody got hurt.  Why would we do the crazy things we did, if it wasn't part of a game?  We thought you knew that...
--we're at the North entrance, Number 2, just a few more seconds and we'll nail him--
Oh God.  I blew it... we blew it...
You shot her!?  No!  Qh God no...
He fucking shot them!!
I'll call an ambulance.
David, David, no, no--
Oh God, Oh God, Sky, save me, I don't wanna die, I don't wanna--
You're not gonna die.  I'm here, you're not gonna die...
Hang on, just hang on, you're gonna make it--
That stupid...
Oh God.  I thought you could handle it.  All the tests... they said you could handle it...
You fucking psycho, you piece of shit, how could you--
God, why-- there was no point.  It was supposed to be fun...
Fun...
SKY, NOOOO!!
Hey, bro, how you doin'?
Admit it, you weren't bored...
Jesus.  Sky, c'mon Sky--
You've been wanting to do that for a long, long time, haven't you?
Like they'd really leave a loaded gun lying around.  They went over the whole place with a metal detector, then packed that thing with blanks.
Good one, buddy, really had you going, didn't we?
Wait'll you try level two...  Joke.
That look on your face up there? Shit, man, I almost lost it.
Awesome game-- best I've seen.
Sure glad you jumped, compadre. Otherwise I was supposed to throw you off.  It's not strictly legal, so don't tell anyone...  The cigar.  It's a Monte Cristo, straight from Havana.
Hey... you all right?
 I think so.  You?
Little shook.  I'm pretty much a method actress, y'know?
What's your name?
Susan.  Susan Waters.
Nice to meet you, Susan...
Can I have a puff?
Look, I have to know.  Who's really in charge?
God?
What is this, Sky?  We got a call from your brother, said there was a surprise party...
Kind of late for your birthday, isn't it?
If you wanted to borrow my car, you could've just asked--
I know, Liz, I've been an idiot, and I'm sorry...
You OK?
Yeah-- I'm good, really.  Happy to be alive... Listen, it's great to see all of you, thanks for coming-- but there's something I have to do. Excuse me.
So what's the object of the game?
 What game?
Very good...
 Is it always like this?
Mine was a little weirder.  Tell you about it sometime.
The bill.  It's itemized.  Don't bother opening it now...
 I thought it was a gift.
Well, no, the card was the gift, the rest was up to you.
What?  Where are we going?
Does it matter?
