 Traffic flowing smoothly on the
Another day of traffic. Traffic everywhere I look. Cars stop and move and stop again. People sit at the wheel thinking their thoughts.
Day in, day out. Red light, green light. Traffic on the major arteries and traffic in the little veins.
Cars, vans, taxis, trucks, limos, Mopeds, bikes and buses. Emergency vehicles screaming and wailing. Birth and death, walk and don't walk.
Traffic yesterday, today and tomorrow. Bumper to bumper, soul to soul. This is Lone Eagle over and out.
The same man -- the playwright Nicky Rogan with his hand in the air, hailing a cab. He is forty-five, vigorous, wearing well-made sporty clothes.
Stalled in traffic.
I used to drive a taxi.
Where you're going, mister?
ANATOLI
I used to drive a taxi.
I used to be head of neurosurgery. Big hospital in USSR. This hospital, I'm not kidding.
Very big.
I opened thousands of brains.
What did you find?
Big mess every time.
I loved my taxi. Went twelve hours nonstop. Stopped only to pee. I peed under the Manhattan bridge. Peed many times in parks and playgrounds.
47th Street and Third Avenue. A man is dancing with a life- size cloth doll. His tape player is on the sidewalk, playing and instrumental version of "Beautiful Dreamer" and there is a cigar box for donations. A few people look on from a distance. The man wearing an old cutaway, with running shoes, and the doll has long red tresses and wears a frilly gown.
JOANNA BOURNE reaching for the door. Joanna is fifty-ish, handsome, stylishly dressed.
Nicky and Joanna embracing with wordless abandon.
he edge of the bedroom. Nicky is crawling into the room and Joanna is hanging on to him, being dragged. They are fully dressed except for one of Joanna's shoes.
Muffled sounds from the bedroom. We track to:
Nicky and Joanna are undressing after the fact, very slowly and distractedly. Joanna stands by a chair near the window. Nicky is on the other side of the bed and he alternates between standing and sitting as he takes off his clothes.
Last night. Alan Albright called me a handsome woman. Second time he's done that. Son of a bitch.
I hear Alan's sick.
Alan's very sick. He has to go to New Mexico and sit in a lukewarm solution.
You know about Adele.
What about her?
She's dying.
She died.
I talked to her two days ago.
Apparently it didn't help. You know about Peter, of course.
Our Peter?
Peter Redmond. They found out why he can't remember his lines. There's something living in his brain. A parasite he picked up in Borneo, doing the movie.
Can he get through it?
They're watching him closely. There's a special rehearsal set for this afternoon. To bolster his confidence. And that's not all.
I've got bigger problems, Joanna. Personal problems.
That's not all, Nicky. I've been backing your plays for fifteen years. And I've never been more depressed.
About what?
teven Schwimmer. The most powerful critic in America gets his first crack at Nicky Rogan.
 Look. All I want is a haircut. I'm not worried about this guy.
Ever since he started reviewing the Broadway theater, nobody in this business has been worried about anything else.
They can send their heartless brilliant boy-critic. There's a much bigger thing going on than tonight's opening.
What?
The Red Sox
You mean the World Series? I thought the Red Sox were winning.
Three games to two. But if you know their history, you realize there's a tragedy in the making. I've been carrying this franchise on my back since I was six years old.
It can't be all that personal.
If you have a team you've followed all your life, and they raise your hopes and crush them, and lift them and crush them, do you want me to tell you what it's like? It's like feeling your childhood die over and over.     J JOANNA I mean Nicky, really, no.
I'm proud of this play. It's so different from anything you've done.
This is how we've managed to last.
We're able to surprise each other.
In and out of bed.
Because we're completely mismatched.
We don't even like each other, do we?
I used to tell myself. Talent is more erotic when it's wasted. Will I see you tonight?
The Red Sox blow a chance to win their first World Series since 1918. You expect me to miss that for an opening night?
It makes me so mad. Steven Schwimmer ready to strike. The exterminating angel.
It's all worked out. They'll lose tonight. Then they'll lose tomorrow. I see it with stunning clarity.
It's your best play, Nicky.
They'll lose because they're my team.
He will absolutely hate it.
Creeping along. Nicky leaning toward the driver.
I wrapped my sandwiches in tinfoil. I ate and drove. I had one of those big checkered cabs.
You are going where?
Crosstown.
Very bad today.
RAMASWAMY
I cleaned out the ashtrays religiously.
I am sitting here five years in traffic. It is one continuous traffic since I arrive. Why must it be?
Laurel, stay there.  Keep the meter running. And try to stay abreast.
Nicky pushes in next to her. Laurel is eighteen, slightly overweight, with a pleasant and expressive face. She is carrying books in a nylon haversack.
I never see you anymore. Where are you all day?
I go to college. I thought you knew.
Do you want to get some coffee?
I don't drink coffee, Daddy. And this is not what we should be talking about.
What do you want to talk about? I'll talk about anything. What's this?
I'm seeing your play tonight, remember?
Why do you need a radio?
So at the intermission I can listen to the ball game. Do you know that mother is seeing a prominent divorce lawyer?
That's completely crazy.
Is it?
Don't talk like that. How prominent? What are you implying?
She's doing like those Iranians. `I divorce thee. I divorce thee. I divorce thee'
 And he hears it the same time I hear it? What happened to family secrets?
ABULHASSAN
Mother is totally, you know, upset.
Abulhassas, we'll be getting out here.
Nicky stands alongside the first taxi and pays his original driver. Laurel reluctantly exits the second taxi.
Nicky, you don't come in for a while. Everything's okay?
Hello George. You're so healthy and thick-bodied I want to punch you in the chest. This is my daughter Laurel. Just to hear the sound it makes.
I saw your picture in the paper. Two papers.
That means they're getting ready to kill me.
That's not what I hear. I have four, five actors working here. `His best play since "Yessiree Bob" I'm telling you, they say it.
He doesn't want to hear it.
Nicky is launched into a full breakfast. Laurel has a tea bag in a cup -- no water.
If lawyers for the mob are called controversial, why are divorce lawyers called prominent?
Because they get outstanding settlements. And Mother is determined that this time there's no turning back.
I just had breakfast with her. She didn't say a word about this.
Because you refuse to believe she's serious. You've always refused.
Don't be so steely-eyed. It's that course you're taking in criminology.
Oh please. Not now.  She wants you to stop seeing What's- Her-Name. Finally. Now and forever. Do you think that's too much to ask? For a wife of nineteen years.
You're too young to be studying criminal behavior. It's making you obsessive.
She is kicking you out.
Your mother and I have something between us that's too strong to damage permanently. Believe me, I know this. That's right, nineteen years. And what about the days and minutes? Sharing small moments, sharing memories, raising a beautiful child. We're wedded in the deepest and strongest ways. Lillian isn't only my wife. She's my best friend.
Bullshit, Daddy.
Nicky and Laurel stand on a short line at the cash register, each holding a check.
Mother won't tell me how long you've been seeing this person. She's embarrassed to tell me. So why don't you tell me?
Don't call her Mother all the time. It makes her sound tragic and unforgiving. What happened to Mom?
I didn't turn her into Mother. You did.
This person and I are a thing of the total past. I promise you.
Know what Mother said to me? Daddy's demons are so intense he doesn't even know he's lying.
Bank towers. The Bank of India, Banco di Napoli, Bear Stearns, the Bank of New York, The Chemical Bank, Manufacturers Hanover. A sense of real institutions looming over the busy street. The bank names engraved on bronze markers, carved in granite, incised on glass.
Nicky rides again.
It's life, it's taxis. People trying to make contacts, make deals, meet their lovers. Taxis are sexy. You can't have Manhattan without taxis. I was proud of my taxi. I kept my taxi clean.
Elliot is at a cash machine, making an elaborate transaction.
Nicky. I was thinking about you. I went to the preview last night.
I don't want to hear about it.
 A lovely piece of theater. Small but important.
Shut up, Elliot.
Quietly effective.
You're an artist. I'm a craftsman.
Press a button and they give us money.
Ride with me. We need a haircut.
 How is Lillian? I haven't seen her.
She wants a divorce.
Don't talk like that.
It's over, finished and done with.
That sounds so final. But are we really surprised?
I'm completely stunned. I don't want this to happen.
But didn't we know it would happen?
Don't needle me, Elliot. Tell me how bad you feel. We're suppose to feel bad together. This is what friends do.
 Joanna Bourne. So rich and crisp. This woman lets you touch her body? You put your hands on her personal parts?
A whitish brown mist is building the west. There is a sense of scurrying people.
We must abandon.
What do you mean, we must abandon?
Ruptured steam pipe.
Ruptured steam pipe.
Asbestos lining. Do not inhale.
We must abandon.
Contaminated substance. Very dangerous. Shooting mud.
Do not inhale.
We must abandon.
Ruptured steam pipe.
Very dangerous.
Asbestos lining.
We must abandon.
Do not inhale.
YEHOSHAFAT
A small narrow room. Handsome wall paintings -- a Tuscan hill town. Very slow day.
I'm trying to think. When did you start looking so terrible? You look awful.
I can tell you the year, the day, the night, the minute.
You used to love life. You don't exude this any more.
What do I exude?
Suffering. You exude a person who sits in a small dark apartment eating soft white bread.
Tonight you find out what it means to suffer.
Tonight. What's tonight?
Shit. They don't have any carrot soup.
You mean because What's-His-Name.
You will suffer because he is in the theater. And you will suffer a thousandfold when his review appears.
It's just a review.
It is just a review. Do not inhale. Very dangerous.
What's the fuss? I don't get it.
That's what I said eighteen months ago.
What happened eighteen months ago?
Before his Broadway days. He reviewed the one-act I did at the Fulton Fish Market. We did this play at four AM, outdoors in the rain. One performance. For the fish handlers.
And he was there?
Steven Schwimmer. I memorized every word of this review.
That's awful.
I recite it to myself with masochistic relish.
A year and a half later? You're still brooding?
Yessirree Bob! Yessisree Bob!
You don't know about obscure writers, Nicky. How we have our anger to nurture and love. Our murderous fantasies for any amount of fame, money , power and sex.
Guys ready to order?
Paisley Porter. I didn't know you were waiting tables.
Elliot?
 This is a great young out-of-work actress.
Elliot Litvak. Have you been ill? And Mr. Rogan. How nice.
What's good?
We have a very nice pasta today. Alla Putanesca.
Say it again.
Alla puttanesca.
 Isn't she great? What did I tell you? A talent.
The food has arrived. Nicky is eating compulsively -- in contrast to Elliot, who sips his mineral water, dabs his mouth with a napkin, looks around the restaurant between bites. When Nicky is finished with his food, he begins picking among the items on Elliot's plate. Elliot uses his fork to deflect Nicky's fork and the two men have a brief duel with utensils, fencing silently but intently, using knives and spoons to vary action. 7                                                                27 The asbestos mist still clings. Men in protective suits and masks move slowly, like moon walkers. Halted traffic, abandoned cars. Mud covering the sidewalks and shop windows. A gauzy stillness, dreamlike.
Stillness. A slow whirling 360-degree shot. The kitchen area is empty. The door of the portable toilet is open and no one is inside. The makeshift wardrobe is empty except for four or five hangers with shirts and jackets. There is no one at the desk or exercise bike.
teven is sitting on a mat in the tub, arms in the air and folded so that his fists are close to his ears. He is in lotus position, breathing in serious meditation -- a deep intake of breath followed by a softer expulsion, matching the beat of the dripping faucet.
The kitchen staff is eating at a group of tables pushed together. Nicky's table has been absorbed by this cluster and he sits reading the sports section in a tabloid and having an espresso with his cigar.
I got a good feeling about tonight
We got Ojeda going. He pitched beautiful last time out.
Plus Darryl's due for a big game.
I hate the Mets.
How come?
When the Mets lose, they just lose. It's a flat feeling. But the Red Sox -- here we have a rich history of interesting ways to lose a crucial game. Defeats that keep you awake, that pound in your head like the hammer of fate.
You can analyze a Red Sox defeat day and night for a month and still uncover layers of complex feelings - - feelings you didn't know you were capable of. The pain has a memory all of it's own.
The parking lot is empty. The stands are empty. A few members of the crew move the batting cage into place for batting practice.
The empty visitor's locker room. Uniforms hang on the doors of the lockers in preparation for tonight's game. We see the 3    names Henderson, Stanley, Buckner.
Cramped quarters. Intensely claustrophobic. Elliot at the urinal. Nicky at the hand-dryer. An actor-waiter standing between them at the sink.
 `One thing saves Elliot Litvak's work from complete mediocrity, and this is his lack of ambition.'
It gets funnier.
 It gets funnier. See, Nicky? They chart the laughs. This from a critic who lives like a fallen monk. Whose address is a carefully guarded secret.
A critic who has to disguise himself.
What do you mean?
To go to the theater. Wears I don't know what. Make-up, padding.
Why?
Because he is so deeply hated by so many people in the business.
He has to disguise himself, Nicky.
For his own safety and peace of mind.
Do you want me to tell you what it was like, reading that review at the newstand with trucks rumbling past and street vendors facing Mecca?
What was it like?
I said, `I'm dead'. He killed me.
Elliot standing near the front window, in a shaft of sunlight, examining a white after-dinner candy. He puts it in his pocket for later. aisley eating lunch at the end of the long table, looking up to see Nicky approach with liqueur and a glass on wine. He sits opposite her, placing the wineglass in front of her.
You've worked with Elliot?
I was in the fish-market play. What happened to him?
There was a review.
I think I remember.
So does Elliot.
Not one of Steven's finer moments.
Oh. You know him.
A little.
And he has finer moments now and then.
He has -- something. A funny little quality I find --
Endearing.
Engaging.
Elliot wants to kill him with a railroad spike.
A little drastic maybe?
Say it again.
What?
You know what.
Alla puttanesca.
One more time.
Elliot watches Nicky embrace Giorgio. Nicky carries the tabloid he'd been reading -- the "Daily News". Elliot and Nicky stand at the door and watch the whitish mist that continues to linger.
Is it safe?
Do we care?
I think we Nought to wait.
I say we go.
You say we go?
Do not inhale.
I'm not ready.
Here we go.
The street is deserted. Nicky holds the newspaper over his face for protection. Each man has an arm in the air, trying to hail a taxi. They are standing near a trash receptacle that carries an advertisement for "New York Magazine". It is a reproduction of the cover that we'd glimpsed earlier in Joanna's apartment when her maid was reading the magazine. A furtive man shielding his face with the newspaper -- and a headline about a Phantom. Nicky and Elliot do not see the receptacle.
This is the diamond district. Store signs reading:
Nicky is reading the newspaper. The driver is speaking Chinese into his two-way radio. Squawky replies from the dispatcher in machine gun Chinese.
The man has taken over my mind. He's not only out there. He's in my head and I can't get rid of him. I can't write a word without imagining his response. I'm paralyzed as an artist.
I don't have the problems that artists have.
You've been saying that for years.
What?
 `I'm just a professional. A dues- playing member of a guild.' Because you're afraid, Nicky. That's the darkest part of you. You don't think you're good enough.
About a dozen people gathered together including several diamond merchants in their beards, black suits and fur hats. They are watching the man in the cutaway dancing with his cloth doll. Someone places a donation in the cigar box. From the tape player: "Dancing in the Dark."
Where are you going?
Don't wait Efor me.
What about the haircut?
Nicky walks along the main aisle, looking at a woman standing in the poetry nook.
Nicky and Paisley in a corner of the back room.
You keep slipping away. How do you do that?
I was one of those silent, listening children. Glued to the shadows.
I was all noise. Played the radio loud. Battled constantly with my brother and sister. Here I am, world.
I hear good things about the new play.
So do I. Over and over.
Peter Redmond is an actor I admire enormously.
Would you like to meet him?
He doesn't want to meet some out-of- work ingenue.
I'm trying to prolong our afternoon. In case you haven't noticed.
The fact is, I have to get going.
Is it true?
Is what true?
He wears a disguise.
Steven goes to extremes to protect his privacy. No friends. No phone.
But you're his friend.
Sort of. Sometimes. You're not building an obsession about Steven, are you? Look. I understand opening- night jitters, but you've got one of the great actors in American theater starring in your play. 1                                                       41 47th Street between Broadway and Eighth Avenue.
Nicky has been cornered just inside the entrance by the stage manager, a small, fierce woman named RENEE SIMON.
I can't take this anymore. He forgets simple lines. He forgets where to stand. We tell him and tell him and tell him. I know he's a sweet man. I love Peter. It's not his fault. But I've never worked in a show where the leading man has 4              parasites in his brain.
Nicky sits down in the orchestra, looking darkly into space, brooding. He surveys the set, a working class kitchen, behind it a backdrop of dark streets and looming tennaments. A portly well-dressed man appears, moving along the row toward Nicky. This is SIDNEY FABRIKANT, the producer.
aybe we ought to postpone the opening.
Joanna loves this play. She has sunk tons of money. She is completely Ncommitted.
appreciate that, Sidney. But our leading man can't remember his lines. And his understudy can't carry the play.
I had lunch with Joanna. She said she told you about Peter. You weren't concerned, she said.
hat was this morning.
So what happened since? You're worried about this kid who writes these reviews?
'm not worried about this kid.
Well I am. Worried sick. Everybody quotes Steven Schwimmer. He's here to announce the death of civilization. He kills a play every time he farts.
Postpone. We have every right.
Too late. All the elements are in place. Delay the opening and we lose the theater.
I've had three straight washouts, Sidney.
 You're dangling from the last letter of your last name.
REDMOND - A LITTLE LATER
Sidney remains optimistic.
Sidney.
Sidney Fabrikant. Our producer.
I was educated by nuns.
es.
I have excellent long-term memory.
Yes.
I kissed Shirley Felder on the teeth.
Yes, Peter.
But my parasite is consuming all the new memories. Eating my lines.
You have to see the words. Try to build a mental picture of the script. Imagine your lines high- lighted with a felt tip pen.
What color?
What was your favorite color crayon, growing up?
Burnt sienna.
Mine was cobalt blue.
This is your history, isn't it? Nicky? All around us. And my parasite is consuming it.
Yes.
I kissed her while she was laughing.
Yes.
I can see her face so clearly. Dear God. My heart was flying out of my chest with love.
Jack Haskins and Renee Simon
I hear he got the parasite in Burma. JACK I heard Borneo.
Why do we blame the Third World for our parasites? Maybe he got it in Denver or Minneapolis.
Maybe he got it in Borneo.
Nicky and Peter still conferring. Jack and Renee approach.
I feel shaky about one line in particular. If I can get past this line. I think I can handle the last long speech.
Which line, Peter?
The Son says to the Father, This could be it.
And the Father replies?
That's the line I can't ever, for the life of me remember. I just can't get it.
It's the same line. The Father simply repeats what the Son says to him.
This could be it.
This could be it.
I know it sounds easy. But something happens between the time I hear the line and the time I'm suppose to Jrepeat it.
This could be it.
 This could be it.
Let's work on it.
 Let's work on it.
Nicky and Paisley Porter make their way out of the theatre.
Do you think he can do it?
I don't know.
He's a very sweet man.
Where are you going now?
Home.
Someone waiting for you?
No one's waiting.
There's a certain kind of wounded young man who uses his oddness to get laid. Is that our Steven?
If I'm sleeping with him, and I haven't said I am, then so what?
 So everything. That's so what. So I begin to hate him. So I want to do him grave harm.
But you don't even know me. How can you care what I do with whom?
I know you both. Enough. How much knowledge does it take before a man does something crazy.
Do you want to talk about doing crazy things.
Yes.
Never mind.
They enter lobby daylight, squint a little.
What? Come on, Paisley.
Our Steven not only disguises himself.
Yes.
He goes to the theater armed.
This could Pbe it.
This could be it.
He feels he has to defend himself if necessary.
I'm actually beginning to enjoy this.
The Port-O-San. Steven emerges and goes to the stacked cardboard boxes against the wall. His hate mail. He is wearing a bath towel like a prayer shawl over his sweat clothes.
Steven, it's me. Will you open please.
You've come to me. I wanted to believe you would one day.
I haven't come to you.
But you're here. So you must have come to me.
In other words I never understood until today how much pain and anxiety you've been causing with your reviews. Steven, it's so unfair.
Of course it's unfair. The truth is always unfair. Why do you think I live this way? Hiding out. Stealing electricity from a lamp post. Because people who write the truth are outcasts of society. I can't live openly, in a nice clean doorman building, with my name on the mailbox. They'd come after me in packs.
Not if you stopped hurting people. Write the truth gently.
The truth is never gentle. Listen to me carefully. Each of us lives in the thinnest possible wrapping of wishes and dreams. Truth is the force that penetrates this wispy skin. It hurts and maims. reaching down to clutch a fistful of letters) Look how they hate me for telling the truth. It's an education, Paisley. The College of Raw Nerves. 
Letters dripping blood. Cries of revenge.
Yes. I've seen your victims. One past and one future. I thought I might convince you to reconsider.
And I thought, at last, she's here, she wants me.
I don't want you, Steven.
Stay. Teach me to be compassionate.
I'm going home to my machine.
Elliot looks up and sees Paisley emerging from Steven's building. He crosses the street toward her. hen Paisley sees him, she seems to freeze.
47th Street between Broadway and Eight Avenue.
The new Nicky ogan
Laurel. Tickets are all set. I double-checked.
Thanks, Daddy. But I just need one. Mother's not going.
Opening night?
I know -- why should a bitter divorce interfere with tradition?
Rogan, Laurel. You also have a Rogan, Lillian. She won't need it. Sell it.
Take it yourself. Take a date.
I don't have a date. I don't want a date.
And you blame me. It's because we never talk. Let's talk.
I have a class. I'm late.
Can we talk later? Will you be at the party?
I'm not sure.
I'll find you. After the show. Somewhere.
Moving very slowly.
IBRHIM
A man is hit the other day by another taxi. I mean he is flying. Crash against the windscreen. Right here in my face. Blood is everywhere.
I never left the garage without my Windex.
I was barrister in Kenya. I said to him, get off from here. I cannot drive with your body on my windscreen.
I drove twelve hours straight through. Ate at the wheel.
You have to eat at the wheel. You cannot get anywhere.
That's the drama. We're waiting for life to continue. Where do you pee, Ibrahmin?
Under the Manhattan Bridge.
That's where I peed.
47th Street between Eighth and Ninth Avenue. A hotel, a high school, brownstones with fire escapes. 6                                                               56 Michael, Nicky's father, is making an omelette on the old stove. He is pushing eighty, slow-moving, with a two-day stubble.
 Who is it?
I'm at the door.
 Go way. I'll call a cop.
Pop, will you let me in?
 Where the hell are you?
Right here. At the door.
It's me. Nicky.
Nicky comes on Sunday's.
Where are your glasses? Go get them.
If it's you, what are you doing here?
I'm on my way to get a haircut.
Where does Nicky get his hair cut?
Across Ninth Avenue. Dodgie's. Where you've been getting your hair cut for fifty years. Where Uncle Billy and Uncle Marty got their hair cut. Where Jim Rorty shot a man for cheating at poker.
It was rummy, not poker. But I'll take a chance and let you in.
Michael is eating his omelette at a small enamel-topped table in the kitchen. Nicky stands by the boxlike refrigerator, drinking a beer. This is the kitchen that is the centerpiece of the theatre set. The new play is Nicky's young life.
It's a constant shock to me, how small this place is. How did we do it? Five people in these little rooms.
Get yourself something to eat.
We must have been heroic.
Five's not so many. There were families with seven kids. A grandmother. A dimwit uncle.
Lillian says it once a week. `Why doesn't he come live with us?'
You know the answer to that.
I do know the answer to that. Why don't we watch the ball game later? We'll go to Mannion's.
They're only gonna lose.
Of course they're gonna lose. We'll watch them lose. What good is heartbreak if we don't experience it firsthand?
The Red Sox are your problem. I never understood about you and the Red Sox. Everybody rooted for the Yankees.
Remember 1949? Last two games of the season. Against the Yankees. The Sox lost on Saturday. Then they lost on Sunday. First I cried for twenty-four hours. Then I had fist- fights the rest of the week.
It's one thing for kids. You get older, you Nhave other things.
It's all connected, Pop. It's one life. Baseball is memory. How do fathers and sons show their love? They go to a ball game together. Thirty-five years later, they sit in the kitchen and remember.
But the son is suppose to stop crying.
I could have grown up happy. A Yankee fan. A divorce lawyer.
You'll need these. Tonight. For the play.
Don't make me sit through one of your plays.
Hey, Pop. I know you don't like the commotion of opening night. But I especially want you to see this play. It's new territory for me. And for you too. I have to know what you think.
Since when did that matter?
Let's not start that again.
My back is killing me.
Where's your elastic brace?
I can't find it.
You're suppose to wear it when your back gives you trouble.
I lost it. I lose everything.
I'll go get you another one. You have to wear it.
Be right back. Take a good look at me.
So I know who I'm letting in.
The man in the cutaway dances with his doll. The tape machine plays "In The Still of the Night.
The room bears some resemblance to the living room set at the Barrymore. Michael sits at the end of the sofa, weary. Nicky is taking an athletic bandage -- about four feet long and three inches wide -- out of the package.
`Why doesn't he come live with us?' Because everything is here.
I know, Pop.
I'm lucky they don't knock down the building. It could happen anytime. And everything worth remembering is right here.
I think the building's okay. At least for the time being.
You didn't think it was okay when you lived here. You wanted to get out so fast I thought you were running a marathon.
Normal boy's ambition. I like coming back. You know that.
You tell your friends your father used to work the docks. Callused hands. But you had an attitude when you were growing up that wasn't easy for your mother and me to understand.
I was in a hurry to do big things, make big mistakes. Any mistakes were okay as long as it was big. But I'm trying to see these things clearly and honestly. That's the play they're going to kill starting tonight. There's a guy out there getting ready to rip it apart. And that's us. Who we were and where we come from.
So what are you going to do about it?
What do you want me to do?
Show him who we are.
It is dark and cold. Nicky emerges and walks west, diagonally across the street, to a barbershop on the other side of Ninth Avenue.
Nicky sits in the barber chair. Elliot pulls up a customer's chair and sits with his back to the mirror, more or less facing Nicky. The barber, an elderly hawk-eyed man named Dodgie, begins his preparations for Nicky's haircut.
He carries a gun.
Then you should carry a gun.
I used to carry a gun when I drove a cab.
Where is it?
I gave it away. I thought, I'm a writer now.
That was a big mistake.
You should never be without a gun. In this city?
If he carries a gun, you have to carry a gun.
We're making too much of this.
No, we're not.
I'm not a lonely spooky writer like you. Nursing a hundred grudges. I'm a man who loves life.
We're talking about something deeper than grudges. How do we respond to personal attack?
In this city? And you don't carry a gun?
How do we maintain our dignity and self-respect?
In other words why should we suffer silently at this kind of abuse? The man is out there ruining lives.
It's your best play, Nicky.
He'll hate it.
He'll kill it. He'll write a review so devastating it will shatter your career and cause the most unmanageable psychic grief. What happens to your apartment on the East River? Your house in Connecticut, where you watch things grow.
We were thinking of putting in a pool.
 `The most interesting thing about Elliot Litvak is that he writes the way he looks -- fuzzy, grubby and shifty-eyed.'  I'm telling you as a friend.
What?
There are things that speak to us from the past.
In this city you don't walk five feet out the door and there is somebody trying to take what's yours.
Your truth is locked in your past. Find it. Know it for what it is.  Shoot him, Nicky.
Shoot him.
The American theater doesn't need people like that.
Shoot him, Nicky. Not that we really mean it. But where does he live?
Keep going west. Last building before the river.
How do you Eknow.
Paisley Porter.
What do you mean?
About an hour and a half ago. I saw her come out of a place. She said she was visiting a friend. But she wouldn't tell me who.
Had to be him.
She was very evasive.
I'm enjoying this more every minute.
How do you want the sideburns.
Elegant and refined.
Steven shaving. He does it symmetrically. A stroke under the left sideburn; a stroke under the right sideburn. Left side of jaw; right side of jaw.
pening night crowd. The sidewalk is mobbed. Limousines and taxis pulling up. Men in tuxedos, other men scalping tickets.
TOYOTA
I loved my taxi. A checkered cab. Big and rumbly.
I'm looking at you trying to think. Put your face in the mirror. I know I recognize you from somewhere.
Everybody else does. Why not you?
You're Frankie Lazzaro. The gangster from Rhode Island.
Oh yeah?
Matthew, look at him. When I lived in Roxbury, the media followed this man everywhere. He was bigger than ten movie stars.  Where's your white Lincoln limo?
 Some little kid stole the hubcaps.
The most charming gangster in New England. Where are we going, Mr. Lazzaro?
Call me Frankie. And it looks like we're going nowhere.
Might be an accident on the West Side Highway.
How come you got the kid with you?
Matthew's my grandson.
A grandmother. God bless you.
He does bless me, each and every day. Matthew's mother works a hospital shift, so I pick him up at school. We stop for a meal usually around this time. He does his homework and gets some experience meeting people. But we never had a famous mobster before.
It's the kid's lucky day.
This is one charming crook. If shooting people is charming.
Now that's a complicated subject.
That's a simple subject.
Look, we're stuck here front and back. It's dinnertime for you, game time for me. Let's park the cab and go to Mannion's. What do you say, Matthew? We'll drink beer and talk baseball.
67                                                               67 Filling the screen. Actual footage. A man in a parachute coming down on an expanse of grass. It is the infield at Shea Stadium. He carries a sign reading "Let's Go, Mets". Security men hustle the parachutist off the field and into the Mets dugout as the game begins.
We see that the image is on a TV screen over the bar. The place is crowded, a neighborhood tavern.
Georgie.
Nicky, God bless. You're well? Your family's well? That's all that counts.
Are you absolutely sure?
Hey. I love this guy. Be good. Stay well. I'm serious: Give my best to everybody.
Nicky sits facing Toyota and Matthew. A young waiter is placing their food on the table.
What happens if somebody comes in here right now and shoots you?
This place becomes famous. Tour buses. Blind people feeling around for bullet holes in the wall.
You see what you're doing, don't you?
What am I doing?
You're charming the boy.
Hey, Toyota. He asked me a question.
Frankie Lazzaro. Coming down the courthouse steps every day in the media. Children see this. They think you're the Secretary of the Treasury.
That's my cousin, Angelo.
The actor Peter Redmond and the director Jack Haskins. A second actor, who is about fifteen, witnesses the exchange.
This could be it.
This could be it.
This could be it.
This could be it.
Does it feel comfortable?
Does what feel comfortable?
This could be it.
This could be it.
People cluster around TV sets.
What's it like to shoot somebody?
I respect a kid who does his homework in a taxi. But let's put a lid on the questions.
Go on, tell him. Tell the truth. Tell him how you feel, shooting a piece of hot metal in somebody's flesh who was once a child, who was once the same age as this boy. Somebody's flesh who was innocent once.
It's complicated. It's a whole life. A person doesn't commit an act of violence out of nowhere. There are strong forces at work.
Dew-eeey! Rog-errr!
Nicky stands to see the action better. His jacket swings open and Toyota sees the revolver tucked into his waistband.
eople seating themselves in the orchestra.
Cheering from the bar crowd.
You're a family man, Frankie?
Wife and daughter. My father's still alive. 
He outlives me, starting tonight. Because the Mets just tied the score. It was only a matter of time, wasn't it?
An how many years does it take a person to make his family safe and secure and happy, and then in one dumb moment, what does he do?
I don't know Toyota. What does he do?
And the people he hurts the most are the people who love him. Despite who he is and what he does for a living. We're always saying we want to take control of our lives. You don't want to take control. You want to lose control. Jesus knows it.
It's a complicated subject.
It's a simple subject.
LILLIAN Your father said you might be here.
Two-all after six.
I've been looking for you because I want to let you know what's been going on before you read about it in a gossip column.
We stranded five runners in the first two innings. This will come back to haunt us.
I want to be fair-minded, Nicky.
All right. What's been going on?
I've been talking to a prominent divorce lawyer.
How prominent?
He has his own submarine. I'll be getting everything that matters. I'll get New York and I'll get Connecticut.
I'll have whatever she's having.
 I don't want to be responsible for his food. Just a small green salad. And a Perrier.
Bring me the bay scallops with mercury poisoning.
Yessiree, Bob.
Get the hell out of here. I don't want you bringing our food. Send a real waiter.
TV images: action on the field.
Rog-errrr! Dew-eeey!
Dinner has arrived with a bottle of wine. A cigarette burns in the ashtray in front of Lillian.
Opening night, Lillian.
Who the hell cares?
The whole thing is my fault. I took unfair advantage of your patience and understanding. You understand me.
That's always been my problem.
And you've been extremely patient.
You know why, don't you? Because I am patient, chain-smoking Lillian.
You smoked because I smoked. We were falling in love, remember? I used to see certain movies only because you had seen them. I wanted to see what you saw.
I'd forgotten that.
I went because you went. You smoked because I smoked.
That's very lovely actually.
Laurel wants us to be honest and open. Let's be open with each other.
Be open with me. I'd like that.
There may be things you'd rather not know about.
I want to know. We haven't talked this way in years.
I had an affair -- are you sure you want to hear this?
Joanne Bourne.
Alma Wetzel.
Nicky, no. This is insupportable. How could you?
I'm a man. She's, you know, a woman.
She's my gynecologist.
I am really, deeply sorry.
It violates so many trusts.
It was an animal thing. No real intimacy.
I never thought of Dr. Wetzel as having a sex life outside the office.
We did it in the office. She thought her apartment was too impersonal.
I'm glad we're having this talk.
I feel great. I feel impeccably alive. I'm elated. Eat something. Please. I love you.
Nicky with one arm raised, hailing a taxi. He and Lillian kiss sweetly.
You look awful, sweetheart. Get a haircut. Get a lawyer.
Nicky rejoins Toyota and Matthew. He carries the wine bottle and his glass.
Great game. Red Sox are winning.
They're always winning. Until they lose.
Your problem is you take the easy way out. Losing is easy.
Winning is easy. Losing is complicated. It's a lifetime's work.
It may be work but it's not honest work. Faith is the real work.
Clemens has a blister. Look. They're pinch-hitting for him.
He's a twenty-four-game winner. He pitches seven solid innings. We scratch out a one-run lead. Of course he gets a blister. Of course they put up Greenwell even though Baylor's sitting on the bench. Of course Greenwell strikes out.
TOYOTA You made him strike out. You wished it on him. You want to lose. It's too hard for you to believe in something. It's hard to have faith. It's hard Nwork to trust somebody.
 "It looked extremely rocky for the Boston nine that day."
You're afraid to risk believing. Believe in them. Believe in your self. Take a risk. It will humanize you as a person.
I want to believe.
If you believed, you wouldn't be walking around with a handgun in your belt. What does that tell me? You want to make the night come down.
I always thought a night's sleep is what you get for a hard day's work. But these last weeks I lie there helpless. Hour after hour. I've come close to praying for the first time since I was your age. Pray to God to put Sme out.
I talked to the doctor again, Pop. He said she's not getting any better. He wants to talk to you. I think he means right away.
How bad is she?
This could be it.
Laurel in the audience leans forward, waiting for the next line.
eter staring at the Son. The Son looking increasingly bewildered.
Renee takes a newspaper off a chair, offers a section to Jack, keeps the rest for herself.
Boisterous noise from the bar crowd.
Nicky is finishing his wine. Matthew is next to him, standing.
Say it and you'll believe it. Life is good. Say it.
I want to say it because my whole life may depend on these next few moments.
Then say it.
Life is good.
Speak it like it's real. Matthew.
Life is good.
Life is good.
Hen-duuu! Hen-duuu!
What are people?
I don't know.
Matthew.
People are dependable.
I don't know if I can say that.
People are dependable.
People are dependable.
Let's see what Henderson does.
8                                                                88 A real waiter arrives -- obese, slow-moving, with hair curling out of his ears -- and he brings ice cream for Matthew, coffee for Toyota and a stinger for Nicky.
Finally, I get a waiter who doesn't know "Macbeth".
But I know you, don't I? I seen you on a poster in the theater district. I'll think of your name in just a --
You know-
Hen-duuu!
People are dependable.
Life is good.
Baseball is life.
Enjoy your ice cream, kid. When you're an old man it'll come back to you. The same deep sweet soft toothy taste. And you'll remember where you were and what you saw.
he theater is nearly emptied out. A few people still heading toward the exits. Laurel Rogan remains seated, wearing her headset, listening to the ball game. She is concentrating deeply, fists clenched.
Toyota, Matthew and Nicky are huddled closely, watching the screen. Matthew is seated now and Nicky leans over him from behind, framing the boy's head in his hands so that Matthew's attention will be directed unswervingly to the action on the screen.
This is something no one has been privileged to see in almost seventy years. Very few people now alive can say that they have seen what you are about to see, Matthew. The Red Sox win a World Series. This is deeply, intensely personal. All the mistakes I've made, all the envy, fear and violence that's encased in this little envelope we call a person -- all washed away in the next few minutes. And your grandmother knows why.
Because God loves a winner.
He used to love losers. But the laws of physics changed.
NICKY Backman flies to Rice. It's like a beautiful song lyric.
NICKY All the times I died when the Red Sox lost an important game they should have won. All the awful things I said to my mother and father. To Tmy wife and daughter.
Washed away.
Because life is good.
Because faith is rewarded.
Attendants putting plastic in front of the lockers to prevent champagne damage. Camera crew setting up. Men wheeling the twenty cases of champagne into the clubhouse. A man peeling foil from the tops of the bottles.
NICKY All the failures, all the fatalism.
Washed away.
One more out.
One more out. One more out.
It's all right, Frankie. Just a little touch of suspense. Life is good.
Baseball is life.
One more little out. A nubber. A pop-up. All year long, thousands of outs. We want one more little out.
TOYOTA Don't worry. It's a test.
It's a test all right. They're bringing in Stanley.
It's Stanley. It's the Steamer. Fate has spoken to this man in the depths of the night.
What did it say?
A thousand things.
MATTHEW You're hurting my head.
Mookie, Mookie, Mookie, Mookie!
We're still winning. That's what counts.
The Sox are one pitch away.
One pitch away.
Stanley's getting ready.
This could be it.
This could be it.
Nicky recognizing the line from his play.
This could be it!
This could be it!
This could be it!
This could be it!
Shock and dread.
It's all right. It's a tie game. We can still win it next inning.
Mookie, Mookie, Mookie, Mookie!
This is the time. Trust in people. Believe in life. Faith is hard work. Don't give in. Don't give up.
Life is true.
Life is real.
Trust your team.
Nicky watches as if in a trance. Complete silence around him. He is separate from everybody else, the only clearly defined figure in a group of shadowy and indistinct people.
Laurel Rogan, seen from behind, is somewhat slumped in her seat. She turns off the radio, removes the headset and rises. She moves along the row toward the aisle.
Cramped space. Nicky at the washbasin, disheveled but happy, washing his face.
Great game.
Unbelievable.
Classic.
Scintillating.
I still don't believe it.
Have to hurry back.
Hurry back. Hurry back to what?
Eleventh inning. What else?
 I think you're a little confused. Nothing personal friend.
What are you talking about?
What are we talking about?
Yes. What are you implying?
Game six is history,pal.
You're not making sense.
We're not making sense.
Did you see Mookie hit the ball?
Of course I saw it.
Did you see the winning run score?
You're not making sense. Make sense.
You're implying I missed something. What did I Fmiss?
You missed the boat, Popeye the Sailorman.
Hold him till I zip up, Tommy.
Baseball is life. Life is good.
The condemned building where Steven Schwimmer lives. The street is deserted.
Why won't you tell me your name?
It's only our first date.
I'm willing to tell you my name.
Names are incredibly intimate. We barely know each other. Trust me on this.
You have to tell me what you thought of the play.
First you tell me.
Brilliantly moving.
What else?
Packs an emotional wallop.
What else?
A flat-out hit.
Are you majoring in theater criticism.
Criminology.
If you're wondering about the firearm.
Yes.
This building is not secure.
Nicky makes his way past the debris. The front door is gone, the inner door smashed and battered -- door knobs gone and locking mechanism ripped out.
On the sofa, Laurel is straddling Steven, whose shirt is almost completely off, exposing his bulletproof vest. Laurel is blouseless and barefoot, with her unzipped skirt still on and her bra dangling from one shoulder.
I have this thing where I have to know a person is being honest with me before, you know, I can feel completely free to be myself.
We're strangers in the night. The last thing we want is honesty.
What do we want?
Mystery. Deception.
Deception isn't something I personally consider sexy.
What's sexy?
Knowing who a person is. Down deep.
Even if the truth about a person is sad or depressing or shocking?
You won't even tell me your name. What's shocking about a name?
Even if the truth requires a certain adjustment?
Nicky stands with his back to Steven's door. His gun is out. He holds it up near his face, muzzle pointed up.
I used to go to the movies all the time. 
I saw a hundred situations like this. A man and a gun -- and a locked door. Lee Marvin or Steve McQueen. And I used to say to Lillian because we went to a hundred movies that we saw together or that I saw because she had seen them, and I'd say, `Watch him kick in the door with one kick,' And it might be Steve McQueen or Jeff Chandler, holding the gun up like this, and he would turn and kick the door and it would fly open at once, and I would say to Lillian, `How completely phony. Whoever made this movie has no idea how hard it is to kick in an actual door in real life.' I still love Lillian. But it's not easy to kick in a door. I knew they would lose and they lost, so what are we so upset about? They lost tonight, they'll lose tomorrow. It's written on the wind. 09                                                            109 Laurel is on her feet, backing away slightly. Steven removed his shoes and stands in his stocking feet, noticeably shorter than he'd been earlier.
NICKY These wives named Lillian. I used to say to her, `You don't kick a door once or twice and expect it to open. It's only in the movies a man can kick in a door with such amazing ease. Because a real door requires a tremendous and prolonged pounding before it finally gives way.' He's a great player...how could that ball go through his legs?
Steven and Laurel are briefly immobilized by shock as the door comes flying open.
 Laurel.
Ste-vennnn Schwim-merrrr!
 This is my daughterrrrr!
I don't think he knew, Daddy.
Daddy, I'm sorry. But he was so beautiful. I trusted him. When I saw what he really looks like --
 Am I really so deeply repugnant?
Yes.
Go home, Laurel. Tell your mother I will be late.
You're going to die. You're a dead man. You're dead.
Look. I'm sorry you keep running into dishonest men. But you're only eighteen. We can still turn it around.
Except I won't have a father anymore.
I'll see you all the time. I'll get a place right nearby. One room. No distractions. We'll talk.
YOU'RE DEAD!
What will we talk about?
Everything.
Will I believe you when you tell me something?
There's nothing left for me to lie about.
You're dead. I see you on a morgue slab drained of all fluids.
I see the outline of your body in chalk on this very floor.
 Daddy, wait.
Then they lost?
Why does it matter?
If they lost tonight, they'll lose tomorrow. It's all over.
Why do you care?
They're my team.
No. They're not your team. They're my team.
They're my team, too. I grew up on Boyleston Street. Right by Fenway Park. I went to fifty or sixty games a year. All by myself. I was one of those kids with scabby elbows. I called out to the players. `Look over here. Hi, I'm Steven. My parents are divorced.'
I went to college in Boston so I could be near the Red Sox. I took summer classes and the cut them to go to the game. My wife is from Boston. Lillian Ziegler?
The Red Sox were my world. I surrendered my existence to a team that couldn't win the big one.
If you're such a devoted fan, why were you at the play tonight instead of the game? Answer carefully. This is important. You could have gone to the theater last night. There was no game last night.
Because I can't bear to watch. When they lose, I die inside. It's like some little person named Steve just crumples up and dies. I wait for the scores. I still die, hearing the scores, but it's over in a second. I can't survive the game pitch by pitch, inning by inning. I've done it too many times. And I can't do it anymore.
I was six years old the day Pesky hesitated throwing home and Slaughter scored all the way from first. That's when I knew the Red Sox were my team. Pity and terror.
When I traveled through Asia this summer, I went to tremendous trouble and expense to rent a car with a phone so I could call up Sports Phone in New York and get the scores. I drove through the war in Afghanistan calling Sports Phone like every hour on the hour, for updates.
What about my play?
Yes. And no more evasive tactics.
It's your best play, Nicky.
See, Daddy.
I've seen it twice. I went back tonight to be sure. It's a brave and honest piece of work.
What else?
An artistry and sensitivity you've never shown before.
And you're not saying that because of the gun in my hand?
You're out of bullets.
See, Daddy.
And Peter Redmond helped immensely. These pauses were exquisitely timed. He made us wait and wait. He built a gorgeous tension and suspense.
We worked very hard on the pauses.
I called Sports Phone from Lhasa, Tibet. Freezing in my little rented Fiat. Sheep on a hillside. Rocky debris dating back millions and millions of years, from the time the Himalayas thrust up when the plates of India and Asia collided. Red Sox 3, White Sox 2. A moment in the history of the world.
A yellow taxi comes speeding past, moving eastward on 48th Street. We see it from various perspectives and elevations. It is a large checkered cab, the only thing moving in the night. Steam comes billowing from funnel vents. The taxi catches every light just before it turns red.
Nicky is driving, his face showing intense satisfaction. Laurel sits next to him.
SULEYMAN
Faster, Daddy.
The taxi crosses Park Avenue, speeding past the bronze statue of a man hailing a cab.
