They are walking down a long corridor that's like a tunnel. Patches of LIGHT stain the darkness. Sometimes Amsterdam glimpses a FACE peering out from the gloom. Once or twice he almost stumbles over a BODY stretched across his path.
Jack thrusts the pike between the wooden bars, impaling the rabbit's body. He pulls the pike from the cage and leaves.
Did you bring the boy for a charm, Priest?
No, Jack. For a baptism.
We'll send a few across the river today, Priest.
What's the fight?
The Dead Rabbits against the Native Americans, same as ever. But it'll all be settled today.
Are you Native or Rabbit?
 What do you think?
Looks alright. I'll stand by you, then.
 I suppose there's to be a fight.
Derry?
Donnegal. Name's Monk Eastman.
And you want to fight, Mr. Eastman?
lf there's money in it.
Fight for the Natives. They have a proper war chest.
Well, I might at that. But I thought I'd ask you first, seeing as how I'm not quite a Native American myself.
Let's see your skills, and we'll talk of payment later.
Fine. But if you like what you see, pay me double. Monk turns to the door with the grace of a dancer and delivers a SHATTERING kick, sending it flying off its hinges. Clear white LIGHT streams in, and we see Monk Eastman plain for the first time: a huge man, in stature and girth, wearing a small DERBY that intentionally makes his head look even bigger.
 Stand with us then.
It is the tallest structure in the midst of low, squalid SHACKS, winding ALLEYS as narrow as a snakels back, and DIRT STREETS filled with ruts, mud and filthy snow. A few PIGS wander forlornly about, rooting for garbage. WASH hangs stiff, in the middle of the square, from a peculiar monument erected to some forgotten war hero. The Brewery occupies one side of a SQUARE surrounded by some storefronts and a couple of collapsed wooden sidewalks. If this place resembles anything at all, it's a horrible hybrid of London's Limehouse and a pioneer town in the American West whose best days have long passed--or never came at all. VALLON stands still, staring across the square past the monument. His battalion of irregulars waits for his signal. Now... very, very slowly...from around both sides of the monument comes ANOTHER GANG, in size the same as VALLON's, men and women both, armed like Visigoths with HOMEMADE WEAPONS: knives, pitchforks, building blocks and bricks, boards with sharp nails protruding from the ends. Every member of this second group is dressed in a long DUSTER which reaches to the ankles. Several MEN in front of the group sport dusters made of leather.
Bill Poole! on whose challenge are we assembled? A MAN in a leather duster  steps forward. He is young, lean and fierce. And then there are his eyes. They do not match. One is real. The other is a huge, bulging PEARL upon which has been engraved, instead of a pupil, a full-color portrait of the AMERICAN EAGLE.
Bene.
But this time can you bear to look on the glory when it comes, Bill? Can you see it clear with your single eye?
It wasn't God who touched your eye.
I don't expect a death blow from your hand, Butcher. Let's have at it.
Say it out and quick, before spring gets here.
So?
In a flash, BILL THE BUTCHER opens his coat. Inside, on a special belt he carries a CLEAVER, a CARVING KNIFE and other instruments of the butcherls trade, all stained with blood and gristle. Now the MAN standing next to him removes the broad BELT from around his coat. The brass buckle is sharpened to a point, the leather studded with glass. The gallery of Street Kids tenses for action: they are thrilled.
Prepare to receive the Lord.
... as Shang's GRABBED from behind and pulled off his feet by a PEG-LEGGED NATIVE. He THROWS the boy to the ground and pins him by holding the sword-sharp point of his wooden leg against Shang's throat.
 I run with you! I'm one of you! Born a Native American from the blood of five generations!
Yeah? Then you oughta be a red Indian.
Shang, still blindly SWINGING his blackjack, makes his way closer to the relative safety of the Brewery, his face stained with tears of fear. He hits someone. The MAN turns, swats him down. Shang sprawls on the street, which is a SWAMP of mud and blood and dirty snow, and finds himself face to face with a departed PEG LEG. Someone has removed his artificial limb and driven it through his heart. Across the square, Amsterdam has reached his father in time to see a NATIVE AMERICAN sneaking up behind him. Amsterdam grabs a long TRUNCHEON from a fallen warrior and uses it to hit the man a strong blow behind the knees. The MAN falls, howling. AMSTERDAM HITS him again. And again. He is hysterical.
... sees a HATCHET lying by the body of the Rabbit he has just beaten senseless. He grabs it and runs forward, looking for an opening between the Butcher and his father... As the two combatants move, Amsterdam MOVES. Bobbing, weaving, feinting, falling back... looking for his chance... ... as Bill deals VALLON a blow that ROCKS him back and throws him off balance...
... and Bill is upon VALLON, SINKING his knife into his chest. VALLON screams and falls on his back, Bill kneeling over him. He looks into his enemy's eyes ... and VALLON's EYES LOCK ON HIS. For all his suffering, VALLON's eyes HOLD Bill ... he forces himself to look at Bill...it's a terrible struggle... but VALLON will not look away. Amsterdam, hysterical, RUSHES at the Butcher. The Butcher grabs Amsterdam by the arm, making him drop his hatchet.
Can't..can't cross the river... with steel through my heart. Amsterdam looks around. None of the Rabbits makes a move. This is clearly something he is meant to do himself. Amsterdam grabs the tortoise handle of the knife, PULLS on it. Vallon tries not to cry out. The knife does not move. Amsterdam tries again. He can't budge the knife. Vallon MOANS. Nearly wild, Amsterdam PULLS with all his strength. Vallon SCREAMS in agony. Amsterdam is pulling so hard he raises his father's back four inches off the ground. Still the knife will not move. Vallon passes out from the pain. Now, finally, someone steps forward: Monk Eastman. He leans over but Amsterdam, berserk with grief, pushes him away, turns back to his father, and, with a last desperate pull, DRAWS the knife from his father's heart. He throws it on the ground. Monk picks it up, wipes the blade on his arm, closes the knife and hands it to Amsterdam.
That's yours, rightfully. Now Monk leans over the lifeless body and reaches inside Vallon's coat, REMOVING some money.
And this is mine. Only what's owed. Use the rest for funeral.
No! He tries to shove Monk away from his father, when the Native Warrior intervenes.
It's fair.
Hon ... AMSTERDAM No, Pa!
... honor me... think of me ... don't never look away. Vallon convulses and DIES. Amsterdam shakes him to revive him.
Take the body. Bring the boy. Several RABBITS take a step or two forward, but Amsterdam springs up at them, like an animal.
Come an, lad. Therels nothing to be done now.
Get away! Get away!
Leave him be. He's his to mourn.
Where's your family, sonny?
 My mother's just there.
On the trip, her insides all broke up. She wasn't dead and there was three others fighting for her bed.
And your father? Where's he, then?
I never knew him.
EMPTY_LINE
Where all those streets come together right ahead is the true Five Points. But most speak of the Five Points and mean anywhere between the Battery and the Bowery. Although the night's cold, the streets are jammed. WHORES painted like carnival Gypsies sell themselves to any man sober enough to stand up. SOUNDS of laughter and combat filter out from garish SALOONS like the Little Naples, the Hell Hole, the Egyptian Hall. In the midst of all this highlife are BEGGARS and the SICKLY, looking for charity, scrounging garbage in the street. An INDIGENT battles a CRIPPLE for a meager scrap of faod. A richly dressed WOMAN, riding by in a carriage, hides her eyes by raising a HUGE BOUQUET OF FLOWERS in front of her face.
Streets hereabouts are lively of an evening. The city comes here to sport. But there's places to put up a boy on his own.
And those? What are those?
Well, those. Those are, as you might say, a sort of...
... sort of whatnot.
Say, policeman. I'll buy your bonny friend.
Hey!
We passed the plate amongst ourselves. Come up with enough ned to carry all this, and carry you a while, too.
Where will my father rest?
Potters Field, with everyone else.
My father won't be buried with everyone else. He'll lie separate in fresh ground, facing east.
What difference where he faces?
He'll face east for the second coming of Christ.
Fine, son. When Jesus gets to the Battery you show Him the way from there.
Will you have music, entlegen
My daughter'11 do any song you like.
Not tonight, Maggie, we got...
How much?
Any ned in your pocket, sir.
She sing sweet as she looks?
Pure celestial, sir.  Go on, Jenny.
No, Jen, the other.
Mr. Tweed would like a word, Mr. Cornelius.  Tweed of Tammany.
In your office. At your pleasure, of course.
Mr. Cornelius. With a view like this I'm surprised the dead can rest in peace.
Is there anything I can...
 Yes. A favor.
Happy to serve, Mr. Tweed.
Excellent. Lend me something.
 Oh, I don't know what I could ...
I believe in form and appearance, you see. Just like yourself, sir. And I believe in law, and the power of example. Our city is a lawless wilderness, sir. I'm asking you to help chasten it.
A matter of civic duty, then.
And civic pride. I want you to help me set an example.  I only need to borrow one of your clients.
Me? Oh, I don't know. All that talk of blood loyalty makes me quake. I'll spill blood when the price is right. But blood for ceremony? I prefer holy communion.
Not mine. Not now, and not any time after.
Come on, boyo. I'll put you up tonight.
I'll do for myself, Jack.
You can't.  There's no mistaking you're his son.
What's the cost to bury my father proud and proper?
For a plot, a headstone, hands to break the earth...
How much?
What are your current means?
Of course you'll have to wait three days for a city permit. But all this may do for part.
No.
That's owed another.
.... his FATHER, propped up in a coffin, on public display. There is a large sign beside the body: "The Dead End of Lawlessness. Tammany Abhors Crime. Tammany Means Justice." A sizeable CROWD is goggling at the body. Amsterdam BULLS his way through the people to the street. He looks in the gutter, then looks up quickly. Someone is watching him: Johnny. He's carrying an armful of wood.
Firewood?
It's a penny the load.
Later.
Hey!
Help me.
Come on! Help me, goddamn it!
Ask the boy.
I paid Cornelius for my father to rest in honor. He told me I had to wait on a permit, but he only wanted time to...
The boy...
Ain't his first Tombs trip.
What do they call you?
Amsterdam.
Your full name.
Vallon.
First name?
I told you.
 Address?
Got none.
I'll put city. Now what's your age?  Maybe twelve. Got a family?
No more.
Well, where was they from when you had one?
 City.
 Disrobe.
What's the charge, Asbury?
Theft. Assault. Creating a ...
Through that door there.  And don't stand too near no one else.
Ought to be served in a trough, properly. Will you try some?
Probably. What is it?
All-Sorts. It's made of all that's poured and not drunk, and any they can salvage that's spilt.
 Your health.
...as Johnny enters, dragging a large SACK across the crowded floor toward a far door.
Alright, gents and ladies, your bets now on Towser against the vermin, the count to beat is ten rodents in three minutes.
You get to live private until they come from the orphan's asylum. On account of your tender years.
Let me see! I don't believe it.
 No! It's a danger.
Oh come on! It's not.  Then tell me where you got it.
From some man. He took me in his carriage. He only wanted to do something to me fast.
What?
 I didn't understand.
Would he do the same with me?
I won't tell you if he's around again.  He's my secret.
Better keep it more careful, then.
A man and two women cast a glance her way. She looks away, but the TRIO keeps watching her... then FANS OUT and starts to FOLLOW her. The Friend looks over her shoulder again. SEES the Man. Locks in another direction, SEES: the woman. And then: the second woman. All closing on her. The Friend starts to RUN. The Trio runs after her. And no one else pays attention. The Friend PLUNGES into one of the warren of TUNNELS that lead off the Brewery floor. CAMERA plunges through the darkness, after her. Her footsteps ECHO; there is the SOUND of stumbling, falling, an angry CURSE and a BLOW being struck. The FRIEND picks herself up out of the darkness and keeps running, CAMERA following down the dank halls. Suddenly the TRIO runs AHEAD of the camera. There is a SCREAM. CAMERA staps. And others SOUNDS follow quickly now: the dull THUD of a heavy object against bone, REPEATED several times; and then, very soon after, the most terrible sound of all: silence. Then Two Women emerge from the darkness of the tunnel, fighting over the penny. The Man, several steps behind them, throws an object to the dirt floor: it's a STONE, and it is covered with blood. He comes up behind the Two Women quickly and GRABS the penny from them with a hand that still DRIPS blood and gore. They CHASE after him across the crowded Brewery floor.
I don't know...
You're a lunatic to come here like...
I do understand, yes.
But you don't understand at all.
There's a whole city to share and all you see is your own narrow streets.
Yes, alright. Gladly. It's all blackjack jobs and panel games and killings for a fiver.
As far as it goes.
But we're talking about different things, Bill. You describe the present. I see the possibilities. Look to the future. There is so much more.
There's things demanding to be done that no police force can do, not even an obedient one. There's contributions from every dive and brothel. Loyalties to be secured and debts to be collected.
And now you and your Natives have emerged as the foremost force in the Five Points, I'm prepared to extend you an opportunity. You can work for Tammany...
... beside Tammany... in the performance of these civic obligations. And for a satisfactory... I'm prepared even to say equitable... financial participation. It's not the sort of responsibility the founding fathers might have recognized. But then, the founding fathers never imagined the city New York has become.
We'd like to. I do miss it. But it's wiser for men in the public life to give an appearance of probity.
Oh Jesus, no. The appearance of law must be upheld, especially while it's being broken.
Perhaps not within the Points. But the smart man could go higher.
Anyone inside?
No, praise God, but all we own...
Well?
Waiting on reinforcements.
That's not them. It's only the Black Jokes. Seems your fire interrupted their festivities.
May I point out that the building is burning to ashes?
Certainly. And may I then remind you, Pocahontas, that this entire area is the province of the Americus company, and you will kindly keep your distance. Impasse. The rival Fire Companies size each other up and start toward each other. The building continues to burn. Tweed remains regal and unperturbed atop the fire plug. As the two COMPANIES are about to close with each other, a second BELL sounds. Tweed's "reinforcements" have arrived: the Native Americans, led by Bill The Butcher. They PILE OFF the wagons before the horses halt. Now the Black Joke Co. is outnumbered, and it FALLS BACK. As the Crowd CHEERS, Tweed takes the bucket off the fire plug.
Alright, boys! To work!
Next building over, boys! Mustn't let it spread!
Another proud night for Tammany, Bill.
Just tell them...  ... to take enough to share. And not to steal so in the open.
Jesus! Boss says to tell you to fight the fire from the front and loot out the back.
The Black Joke could have saved my house!
Black Joke had no business here, Madam.
Their business was to save my house!
Tammany's your business. When we're here to call upon there's no need of other. We understand loss, Madam, and take care of our own.
It's Blackwell's Island certain now, boyo.
Are you hurting? Let's hear you!
There's nothing funny, boyo! You been beat and turned back four times now.
But every time you bring me back... you got to come further to catch me.
The bow of the small boat breaks the fog, and on board we see: a hulk called SHEENY MIKE KURTZ and a huge black kid named JIMMY SPOILS, manning the cars. Johnny Sirocco, grown wary and wiry, peers into the fog like a lookout, while Shang Draper, at the tiller, looks anxious. The HULL of a large boat suddenly laoms in front of them, not five yards away.
Hard starboard, Shang! Hard starboard!
 I told you forget that sailor stuff! Which way's star... Too late. Their Ticket craft crashes into the side with enough force to make a LOUD THUMP and to send Shang sprawling.
 Why don't we just knock on their front door?
Spread out and make for the cabin. Moving slowly, the boys FAN OUT and move toward the cabin at the far end of the deck. Johnny stays close to Shang, holding onto the shipls rail for support.
 Nothing. Looks picked clean.
Bill and the Natives must have got here first.
What ...
That'll bring the Harbor cops for sure.
 Wait! Take him. If he's still alive he's good for ransom!
Hels dead as Good Friday, can't you...
Then we'll take Bill the Butcher's cleaver and sell the body to the medical students. They'll go five dollars for it anyway.
Come on. We'll get something out of this.
The Harbors!
We can't go back to Corlears Hook, they'll be watching...
We'll make for Blackwells.
And which way's that through this fog?
... and the VOICES recede again in the thick fog.
Should have asked them directions as they drifted by, Shang.
You'd have liked that, wouldn't you Coal Face? You're the only one they'd miss in the dark.
Let's quiet, or we'll all be found out!
Alright. We lay up here till first light. Then we run back across the river.
 River pirates!
EMPTY_LINE
Head straight out, then turn for the current.
 Figured you for dead.
Close enough.
This is my crew. And welcome to join, if you've the mettle. We're river pirates and quick thieves and street brawlers...
 You're lost.
Yeah? You've no business saying anything against us! Do you know how much you cost us? You know how much that body's worth?
I doubt it's worth the water it's floating in.
Fifteen dollars! Fifteen dollars from them medical ghouis.
I'll make it back for you whatever it is, once we're in the city. Just keep sailing, or we're all done for.
 Go ahead then.  He was in his prime. He'd have fetched thirty dollars easy.
You're as flat as Broadway going north. We can't run the river no more. We're poaching the Natives and the Harbor cops are looking for us.
The cops can go to blazes. Who cares about them?
Youlre all sand when it comes to cops, Shang. But do you have the sand to go against the Natives?
It ain't the time to go against the Natives. We've got to build first. Then we go.
If we go like we did in the river, all of us'll sink.
Does Shang have the sand to ever go against the Natives?
I don't know. He acts like it.
If he only acts, held be better on the stage.  Like her.
Jenny Everdeane. Shang turned her into the best bludget in the Points.
Shes his mort, is she, as well as his best provider?
Yeah. But Jenny says she's anyone's she chooses.
That's the prize of the month. Spice Islands silk.
You'll learn our way if you're going to be one of us, Amsterdam.
Every one of us gives a portion of all they steal to the gang. Morts more than men, being morts.
Yeah? And why is that?
Because morts have more resources. Men can work only on their feet, but a mort can turn out on her back.
I mean, why give at all? Why don't they keep for themselves?
If you think there's something off about my way of running things, you got no place in this gang.
I got no place anyway, and you got no gang. This ain't a gang, no matter what you say. It's a mob.
 It's all your play now, Shang. Maybe you can set him right.
You boys settle with me before you settle each other.
I've come for my due and proper, Shang.
As agreed, then, Jack. Refreshment?
Still smiling, are you?
 It's the young Vallon, is it? I hardly recognized you.
I hardly knew you under that hat, Jack.
There. For your respect.
Anybody else? Any number at all, come on.
Is that sand we've just seen?
It's politics.
I've got my own way to go, why don't you find yours?
Because your way's different, and I want to see where it goes.  Unless you say otherwise. Amsterdam shrugs and keep walking.
You act like you have something in mind, like you know every day what you'll be doing the next. Me, I don't figure on tomorrow.
Well, if you shut up a while maybe it'd come on its own.  Now what the hell's that?
 Oh that's heaven.
The city shut down the Brewery as unfit to live and Tammany gave it over to this minister.
What's Tammany?
Why Tammany ... you don't know? Tammany makes the city run. A political organization that's like... like the Native Americans, only ranging over the whole city.
They seem like the law, but they got a way of acting outside the law. Anything that happens in this city, on the straight or on the sly, Tammany's a part of, and Boss Tweedls the heart of Tammany.
They're the best gang there is.
So if Tammany's the best, go with Tammany. What are you running with this mob for?
'Cause they're more my size for now. With Tammany, you got to do something large, something that makes them take notice of you.
You're better oft without their notice. You can run free, work your own schemes.
But if your schemes have size, you need size to bring them off.
What are you thinking?
Let me in if you ever get it figured.
I'll go on my own from here.
I dread city stimmers. They bring illness and beget vermin.
My plague box fends off all pestilence. Its elixir combats ill humors...
We can't have every citizen of the Five Points boxed up like cargo.
But the season is vicious, and I must take thought of our constituents. Mr. Gleason, I'd like you to shake hands with Mr. Barnett Baff...
A friend and owner of an estimable carting service. Work out an arrangement whereby the citizenry can receive the benefit of Mr. Gleason's wondrous elixir outside this excellent box. At a cost, Mr. Gleason, of how much the barrel ...
 Oh, perhaps twenty-five dollars.
...and how much, Mr. Baff, for haulage and distribution...
The same again. At least.
At least. That's a price of fifty dollars. And greedy, low piracy at that  But a price that Tammany, in its generosity, will meet. Merely submit a bill for a hundred. We'll each have half. And I'll retain this box for further experiment. Hello, Bill.
Bolt the door.
Scotchy Lavelle's gone wrong in his accounts.
Not good enough to rake thirty percent of our share from Sparrow's and use it for his own.  You got to give him over, Bill.
Alright then. What about Charles McGloin? He's running a panel game off to one side. Did you know that?  I can't get a day's work done for all the good citizens pouring in here complaining about crime and corruption all over the Points. They accuse Tammany of carelesoness. Some even suspect ... a few practically suggest.  ... our complicity with this rampant criminality. We must show them Tammany stands behind the letter of the law. We need to set an example. BILL THE BUTCHER  Charles McGloin will do.
I'll set the trial for Friday.
Those interested in the effects of the condemned please come forward.
What am I bid for this coat? A coat of some wear but excellent cut... containing a rather remarkable pocket silk...
A quarter, thank you. Do I hear fifty cents? Fifty cents?
Here. Just for the silk.
Do you have any last remarks, Charles McGloin?
Not from under this hood I don't.
I never struck a foul blow or turned a card and may God greet me as a friend!
I hope you won't think me rude if I speak.
No, sir. You look a proper Gentleman down to the ground.
Well, I wouldn't want you to think me forward, you see.
Does it matter to you what I think?
Well, I might like it to.
Oh.
I mean, if you would like.
I might like, sir. But I can't say now.
Why?
Because this is my stop.
May I walk with you a little, then? JENNY  That would be too bold.
But I'll never see you again.
I come every Thursday to the Tombs to see my father.
I'll look for you.
May I walk with you a little, then?
Are you a spy, then?
Got no one to spy for. I'm an appreciator, you might say.
Appreciator of what?
A good touch.
Don't bother with the chat. If you want me, we come to a business arrangement. lf the terms is right, then I decide how you suit me. Then I do it or not.
Just take a minute, I was Just...
I know what you was just. I had years already of what you was just. You know how I got so good at thieving? So's I wouldn't have to lay down for everyone who had the ned. Now I do it when I want to for how much I want to. Otherwise I don't do it, and don't have to do it, and to hell with anyone's rules but my own. AMSTERDAM What about Shang's rules? You pay a lot over to him. The better your day, the better his. It don't seem gute right.
 What's it to you?
Give him this.
How'd you come by this?
I got my own touch.
Are you making me a present, or making an Arrangement?
It's your rules, right? So you decide.
Pretty slim cut for a hanging day. Where'd you get that?
From Amsterdam.
 It don't suit you.
Commissioner Brunt said to spare you nothing concerning conditions.
Nothing but our safety, of course.
All's snug around Paradise Square in my company, squire. See there.
Tammany makes the streets nanitary, I make 'am safe.
 Even against them?
Against them especially. Let me demonstrate.
We'll be back for this at our leisure.
You dare leave it here?
Safe as a vault, lady. Since all knows it's mine.
You know that's Jack's.
So what?
It should be hangin' off Jack's vest, then. Not here, like some war flag. SHANG That watch is a small price for free run of the Points.
If it's free, how come we pay so much? Wo shouldn't pay for what's our due.
We don't tight when we don't have to. It's not warring that counts. It's the living day to day.
 Is that right? Did I hear that correct? John, did we hear that correct?
 We heard the same.
So then.
You!
What'd you do to my watch, you dirty little bastard...
Hands won't be so quick in future.
That's enough sport this evening, Jack. JOHNNY  It wasn't him.
I have word for you from who did it. You're to meet him at Sparrow's Chinese Pagoda.
All right, step out, you yellow...
Hello, Happy Jack. I'm the one you're looking for.
Then you're marked for dead.
I gave no order for this.
 Never mind giving orders. What were you giving this for? SHANG I'm calling you out, Amsterdam.
I got this at the hanging. It was Charles McGloin's. Everybody here saw you take it from Jenny. What was MCGloin doing with it? What'd you give it to him for?
I didn't give it to him. Why would I give it to him?
I gaw you give it to him. Last week, behind the Old Brewery.
 He's gone flat. I got no reason to trade with the Native Americans.
What about stepping up in the world, as it were, and leaving the rest of us behind. There's a reason. Making a separate arrangement for yourself with the one Native so stupid and luckless that he got hung. That's you to the ground, Shang.
 Who believes what he's saying? Can any of you believe what he's saying?
Bene. We'll see. Any of you that believes I did proper by Happy Jack Mulraney tonight, stand beside me. Any of you that still likes Shang's way with the cops, and Shang's way with the Natives, go to him.  Or should we settle right now, you and me, and just see which of us is left standing?
Let see where they stand.
What's your pleasure, Shang?
This mob ever have a proper name?
We was called after Shang when we was named at all.
We're the Dead Rabbits from now. They were the best. They were history. They were legend, and we'll live up to them.
What's this then?
Payment for the silk.
You were waiting for me out here, weren't you?
Maybe I was, yeah.
You was that sure of me?
Sure enough to wait, anyway. Waiting don't cost nothing.
It don't do to be sure. I could go away just as easy.
Alright.
I'll say when I want to, not you.
Stay then.  One way or another, I get what I want.
 Yeah. If it was just a shag you wanted.
You're a gypsy, are you, come to tell my fortune? Go ahead then. Tell me what I'm wanting.
You got blood in your eye for someone.
It's just I can't look away, that's all.
Who from?
Bill Poole.
You better get someone else in your sights. No one's ever taken him.
'Cause he's mine, that's why. I'll take his one eye, and then the rest of him, piece by small piece.
You have a plan for this? You going to raise a militia? I'll wager Bill the Butcher don't even know about you or care if he does.
He'll know about me soon enough.
And after the Butcher?
You.
Is that so?
You'll be in love with me.
Love you? You just had me. You can have a mort any time you want. So why look for more than that.
That's taking love, not giving it. I want it to be just you and me, no one else for either.
Why?
'Cause none of us means nothing in life except one to the other.
I don't know I want to mean something, to you or anybody. Can there be good in that?
We'll see.
It'll take a while if we do. If we ever do.
And what about the meantime?
Meantime's business.
The potato is a thick vegetable. Heavy. Meaty. Comes out of the ground dirty and stays that way unless you scrub it and boil it to death!  We don't want to keep lem out of the country! We'll even give 'em a place at our table! But we ain't gonna vote 'em into office.
Any Irish hears that will be out for blood.
The Irish is too busy building up Tammany. That's where their brains and muscle goes. Once they're inside with their cronies, they turn on their own outside. Tammany'd steal the air and rent the daylight if they could.
We'd do the same.
Not against our own we wouldn't. That's the difference.
Tammany earns better. That's the difference.
I ain't seen their ned yet.
You will at day's end, that's our arrangement. A quarter a voter, whether they're repeaters or not. I'm telling you, we got a square deal.
It's sound, Amsterdam.
Yeah? Well, it's ned anyway. Just make sure you count it when we get it.
It's just a day's job, we don't have to make it a life's work. We work for Tammany today and kill them tomorrow, if that's our pleasure.
So we're politicians just for today.
Not for a minute. We're better than that. We're thieves.
He's got the right to vote, damn you! COP Not four times he don't.  There'll be no damned repeaters here!
I would never speak ill of a rival. I would never say that every Know-Nothing is a horse thief. It is my observation, however, that every horse thief is a Know-Nothing.
The Know-Nothings are already finished, and there's four more hours at the polls yet.
Keep our men voting. Everybody works today. It's not a victory we need, Daniel. I want a triumph.
I already voted once today. Cast for Tammany, by God, and Fernando Wood.
Once? Come here and do your duty.
 Line up like soldiers!
They got no notion what you're talking about.
 You explain their democratic right. Illl see they unterstand.
 I come to see if our counts square. You boys have made a remarkable showing....
Who the hell's this?
He's our Tammany man.
... remarkable...
 Our own Tammany man. We are coming along. Happy to meet any friend of Johnny Siroccols.
Likewise. Pleasure to meet the best but one in the whole Five Points.
Best but one? Who's better?
 Maybe nobody. But when the count's done the numbers will tell who's come out in front.
I'm in no race. Just pay us what you owe.
Tonight. At the victory celebration.
 Read what it says there, alongside the ruby...read it out ...
"Fortuna Juvat Ordentes."
A grand victory gift from the men of Tammany. Now, tell 'em what it means, Mayor Wood.
"Fortune favors the bold."
What do you think? Would that make a fit motto for our fair City?
Well, I could certainly see ...
 We've got a motto.
what is it?  Well, hell, let's get one we can remember. We're going to build a new City hall, we better have something to put over the front door. And Mayor, you'll make sure the Latin's right?
I don't know you, you don't enter.
 Come on, what are you saying? If you don't know us now, you'll know us tomorrow and you'll be working for us next week.
 Daniel Killoran knows us.
Oh he does?
We work for him.
The hell we do.
 Tampen down, will you?
Why don't you all get the hell out of here and go fix on a story? Go on!
 It's all right, Nat. They're saying the truth. They gave a good day's work for a good wage.
A fine first showing. But second best.
Second, eh? You don't say so.
It's no shame to be bested by veterans. The Native Americans always sweep the field.
What?
We count on them sure as mass comes an Sunday.
 Did you know this? Is this some scheme of yours?
No, I didn't have no idea ...
I was working the same side as the Natives? The Natives?
That's only right. Bill the Butcher's our ambassador throughout the Points, as you might say. It's deemed an honor to work with him. Everyone knows Bill Poole, everyone fears him, everyone ...
I sure as hell don't fear him. And I sure as hell won't stand with him, or any who calls him one of theirs.
Well, if it's matter of personal honor, the money can only be a further insult. I have no wish to rile you further, so if you'll allow me...
Where is he? Where's Bill the Butcher?
Listen, buck. This is a Tammany night. If you and Bill Poole have matters to settle, you can do it any other time, any other place, I don't give a good dancing goddamn. But you do it here tonight and all the Five Points will be down on you like the righteous wrath of heaven. or you could, as the Book says, put away childish things. Join the celebration. Personally, I always find the least strenuous solution the most appealing. Don't you?
I got experience. It's the education I lack.
And you heard I was a good teacher?
I don't listen to talk, I figure for myself. And I figured you'd be good at everything you did.
That's right.
And tonight I got the ned.
And now what?
Now I'm ready for you. Unless there's an arrangement between you and Amsterdam.
 Not to my thinking.
 Amsterdam... listen up, Amsterdam...
 You going with me or him? It's my thinking matters here. You don't have to ask him nothing.
What?
 How's the evening passing?
Fine. Why?
 'Cause it's treating me fine too.
This is no game, you and me. Don't go on like it's a game.
I said already, it's not a game. It's business.
How much will it cost?
Watch this careful. I've never seen the like, not even in Barnum's Museum.
Mr. Poole!
Bill Poole!
My compliments on your exhibition, sir.
It was like watching a dance.  Some great grand goddamned dance. You know me, sir.
No. A father.
Amsterdam.
Indeed.  And to my other name. Vallon. Will you drink to that?
Not worthy of you. Those dogs ain't worthy of you. You ain't worth what they feed on, and what they shit's too good for you.
I got to give you something, Butcher. Something from my father.
The Butcher'll kill him if we don't do something.
It was Amsterdam's own doing. And it'll be our death too if we try to stop it.
 That's the truth.
The truth is you don't give a damn about him.
Yeah, well, if he gave a damn about us he wouldn't have called out the Butcher in the first place.
It's been a full evening's fun now, Butcher. It's enough.
Well I'm the game warden, you might say. I'm telling you this buck's too young yet. Wait till he's aged for a proper kill.
Just settle yourself Bill ...
... and let the merrymaking continue.
It was his father took me in first, and it's thanks I'm returning now.
 This squares any debt. Get him out of here.
Come ahead, Bill. Unless you're wanting to shout me to death.
 If these two are going to combat, it aught to be a worthier occasion. And more rewarding for all.
I only wanted to thank you, Bill, for the customary good job today... and an equally bright future for us both.
Will you drink with me, Bill, as a friend? An honored friend.
If there's one thing I can't abide, it's fighting for free.
Go easy! Go easy. It's over.
He knew what he was doing, hitting you.
Let's get him up.
 Therels too damn little of him left to know anything.
Someone's here for you.
That so? What's he look like?
He looks pretty damned sorry.
 Indeed.- Can I buy you a shave?
No thanks.
Face is too sore, eh? I understand.
No. I'm beholden enough to you as it is. I don't like to be beholden.
We're all even, son. There's nothing more between us.
I'd like it if there was.
Are you proposing employment?
A collaboration. The Dead Rabbits got to get strong before we make another move. I figure you're the one to make us strong. There's a lot we can learn from you.
Boyo, I'm a freebooter and a mercenary, not a teacher. I can't learn nothing from you and I can't earn nothing from you either.
The Dead Rabbits is going to be glorious again. We're going to reign over the Points.
And Bill Poole's Natives? What will they have to say?
Nothing. They won't have tongues left to speak.
Don't worry about what theylll have in their mouths. You think about what they got in their hands.  Listen, son... take a word from a man who was honored to fight beside your father. Temper yourself like a sword, and pay attention to balance. Anger spoils an edge.
Then you say no?
You see my instrument there? First notch represents two dollars and fifty cents. That's how much I got for my first kill. There are forty-eight more notches after it, and my fee has grown with each one. I can accommodate you alright, but you got to afford me. So do business with me or do it on your own.
Everything I got is still to come. So I guess it's on my own, then.
Fair enough. You'll find independence a fine thing, a fierce thing. Although I do hold money preferable to all. 
Bound to.
 Tammany's here to take the chill off the winter and the weight off your heart. It's Tammany can make this city a fit place, with the help and vote of all you good people...
We could use help here. Grab a sack.
 So I've observed.
What if you hadn't? Think of the embarrassment. And what if you had? Consider the waste. Next time you're in a dust-up like that, think ahead and make proper plans. It'd be a grand source of revenue, whoever prevails.
Our mutual interests. That's why I want you to contact Monk Eastman.  I want you to extend a proposition. I want him to join US.
Oh, not Tammany, of course not. We could no more have him there than you. But he should throw in with the Native Americans, become aware of our Arrangement and ... well, use his influence, shall we say, to enrich us all.
 It's none of that, Bill. None of that. His independence is like a rebuke to Tammany. And an insult to you.
I should. If I'd been confident-absolutely certain--that you would have prevailed. Monk is an unpredictable power, and a figure of size. He needs to be reckoned with.
No. He's an elemental force. Them you don't destroy. But you can contain them and use them for the good they give off.
Coal?
And this is your offer?
How do you think we'd sit as allies, Bill?
My thoughts exactly. Then why are you here? Because you were asked to be. You were ordered to be. And who would order me among the Natives? You? And would you follow my orders, even if they was being relayed from William Marcy Tweed himself?
Dubious and doubtful, my friend. But your offer--pardon, the offer you bring--is the most generous that's ever been extended. I favor the terms, if not the personalities. So let us decide the way any Native American would appreciate. We'll do it the democratic way.
Citizens of the Five Points! It seems the Native Americans have come to trouble. They have grown so weak that now they seek my help. They can pay any wage I ask. But I ask you now. Even for money, should I carouse and conspire alongside a boyo like this with gristle on his knife and spittle on his chin every time his cock gets hard?
 There. You see. I'm afraid the people have spoken.
Well, if it's a fight you want now, Bill, remember to come back with a bankroll.
Ah, the Native Americans, is it now?
Are they coming?
We don't want a ruckus, minister.
Nor do I. I intended no disrespect. I'd heard the Native Americans were figures of the greatest prominence here.
Indeed they are, just for the moment. Let them come. Happy to have them. Everyone's welcome in a house of God, isn't that right, Reverend?
As all are welcome in heaven.
Ild like to go to heaven. Ild like to go to heaven and bite off Gabriells ear.
You're still welcome, even with such peculiar appetites.
But if the Natives do come, Father...
I'm not a priest, son ...
... there's no accounting for what may follow.
I'm sure God's hand will guide us in that. Just as He guided you here at the right perfect time, with a right perfect regent. The young lady with the sunset hair. Miss ...
Everdeane. Jenny Everdeane.
Miss Everdeane. Step forward, please.
And the evening's regent chooses her evening's partner.
 Here we make only joyful noises to the Lord.
Now. The men, please. One by one.
Next Gentleman, please.
So you accept?
What?
You accept to be my mort and no one else's.
 No, it's just that I didn't recognize you in the mirror. You still got some of the face the Butcher gave you.
 It's not the Butcher, it's the dancing. It shifts my face all around.
Maybe you'll look better later.
I will if we're together later.  And what about after that? After tonight?
I chose you just for tonight. If that's not good enough I'll go with someone else.
I'll have tonight. But after this don't come to me no more till you're ready. No more.
 Amsterdam.  Amsterdam!
Who is it?
Me.
Come on in.
I don't want to come in! You come out.
Just a damn minute.
What do you want?
I'm going to fight you.
Oh, Jesus, Johnny, I'm tired. How about sometime else?
Now.
You want to tell me what this fight's over? Is it The Butcher? Jenny?  Alright, alright. Then tell me why like this?
So when I lose no one will see.
Satisfied?
Satisfied? It wasn't me that's been dancing and shagging all night.
Enough.
That's it then.
The hell.
Goddamn it.
Goddamn you anyway.
What's the trouble, Don?
There's someone here.
It's just a man of commerce.
Come out with it then.
 What the hell...
I may enjoy the bounty of your table and the pleasures of your company, Mr. Tweed ...
And the pleasures of the company provided you, Mr. Greeley.
...without the Tribune endorsing your politics.
I suppose you can at that. Take with one hand, flay with the other. Virtuels on your conscience, Horace, but Tammany's in your heart.
Pheasant.
You killed a bull this morning. I told you to make an Arrangement with him, and you come back with his blood on your hands.
You stand for anything if I tell you.
What did you earn us, killing Monk?
I see it lost you a lot of God's sense, along with that eye.
You need two eyes to see the depth, Bill. That's how we help each other. If it wasn't for me would be happy enough to plunder the Points and put the fear into people who don't know nothing else. But Bill, I'm only saying... I'm counselinm... look in the distance. You want to sit at my table, fine. But you must always remember who the host is. It's not a matter of courage welre talking. It's manners.
Fine, if you're hungry.
I've always told you, Bill. There's plenty for all, and more for us together than separate. We'll dine together sometime.
Let me put this to you, Daniel. Now that the Butcher has killed the single most prominent figure in the Five Points--a man of myth and moment--who is there to take his place?  Of course. Then what do we do about the Butcher? He's too useful to be killed, but he must be checked.
It could be a police matter.
Impossible! Any cops who might have the mettle to go against the Butcher have blood ties to the gangs. They can't be trusted. And any cops that can be trusted are too craven to be any use. If Bill's to be checked, it must come from within the Points, not without.
The Dead Rabbits did a proud job for elections. That Amsterdam boy has sand.
That so? The last time I saw him he was under the Butcher's knife looking like a fine filet. Who else is there?
Well, the Rough and Tumble Boys over to Slaughterhouse Point. There's Country McCleesterls bunch, too, and the Plug Uglies, but there's none that have the promise of the Dead Rabbits, or the stake, neither.
What would that be?
The boy Amsterdam has a blood feud with the Butcher. He's sworn revenge for the death of his father, and he's got the heart to carry it forward. He'll have the skill and power soon enough.
Blood will make a man intrepid. Bring them along, then. Nurture the Rabbits with neglect. Let them roam where they like.
And if they roam into some portion of our own revenues?
I'd tolerate a little trespassing if it was for a higher good and use. They'll cross with the Natives soon enough and keep each other occupied.
Bill's got to be a lot more than occupied.
I'll hold Bill in check. If he becomes unwieldy ... well, damn it all, Daniel, I might just have to oil up my old musket. What do you think of that, eh?
It'd be gratifying, Mr. Tweed. Even edifying.
But poor politics, eh? Well, we musn't have that.  I do miss those roistering days, though. Oh, and bring some of that food for the canaries.
We ain't had no milk this week.
You can have as much as you can pay for.  Anyone that's got the ned, step up with your pitchers. Any not, come back when you do.
I got ned enough for all. See? Fair enough?
 What's our rate? What do we charge?
Johnny worked it out to a nickel less than the Natives. Just till we're established. Then we raise it a penny more than now.
Raise it? Is that what you want?
You say, then.
There'll be no paying at all this day. Or this week, neither. This is Dead Rabbits business from now on.
 We'll take ned if you got it, now or in future. But no one will go without.
 Except us. You opening a charity?
They'll pay us what they owe, in loyalty if not in cash. Tammany gives coal, we give milk.
They can afford it.
Can't we?
This place is so clean it's the next thing to chaste. And safe as a convent, too.
From the Natives, maybe. But not from us.
You're saying I got to worry about your mob too?
No worries at all. You throw in with the Dead Rabbits and we'll worry about the Natives.
 And if someone else comes along, do I pay them too?
You only pay us. We see you safe from everyone.
Leave off her. She don't want you. Not even if you could pay her.
Hey, just a minute.
 He can't pay. I can pay.
 Maybe I should offer Johnny as a bouncer for your busy nights.
 A bouncer! I don't know if he could bounce on a feather bed. He wants to be a character like you, is that it?
He's got his own ideas. Too full of Tammany, maybe, but he's a fast friend.
But in my trade you go on your instincts. My instincts says to heed you, and my memory of your father says I'm right. We'll shake on it.  And have one of my best to seal the bargain. Megs!
Come here and show my new friend why we're worth special care.
You liked that old man? You would have gone with him?
I like anyone that pays, that's all.
Tell me what he wanted you to do.
He mostly wanted comforting.
I never seen hair so black. Can you take the pins out?
It takes so long to do back up.
Did your mother have the same color?
 Lie back, I want to look at you.  What's that mark?
I always had it.
 And there? Is that a scar?
 There was a baby. They cut it out.
And that on your shoulder? That looks old.
Yeah, I got that when I ...
 I don't want to know when. Don't tell me about before or what you used to be, I don't want that.
What about your scars. Do you have scars?
None I ever seen. Maybe you can find them.
Go on. I can see you later. Megs leaves, brushing past Jenny.
What are you doing?
I couldn't decline what Mother Joyce offered. It's in the interests of business. You understand business.
Sure I do. But there's something else I still don't understand. At Sparrow's Pagoda, did you hit me, knowing it was me?
Yeah. I did.
Meantime's over.
Oh fine. That's fine. I'd be celebrating but I'm losing too much blood.
Put your head back.
That don't work.
Put your head back I said.
 So why so sudden, then?
Sudden? Every day I see you and you complain I can't decide. Now I decide, you say it's sudden.
It's the whore did it, then.
Don't flatter yourself.
It's because you're jealous.
It's because you didn't lie about hitting me.
Christ, I wish I had. Come here, then.
Not here. There's too much past.
It must be morning.
I don't care, I'm not getting up.
This is what you meant, then? It's going to be just the same from now on?
What?
Every morning I wake up next to you.
Or you don't wake up at all.
We only just started in and you're already threatening me.
It's not a threat.  It's a declaration of love.
I prefer my kind. This kind.
What's this? Where'd you get this?
You said I was the best thief in the Five Points. But I got restless. Will you wear something I got?
What is this place?
My jeweler's.
Come on.
I don't see nobody.
That's the best time. They're all having lunch.
You're off your head.
 You can wait on me a minute. Or I'll see you back in the Points if you're scared.  Don't worry. I know every house on this street. They all leave their doors open. They live like they're not in New York.
Come on. I might still be taken for a maid. But you're nobody's notion of a butler.
The Police Commissioner lives the next street over. I was thinking of visiting him next month, but cops don't buy goods. They keep all their graft in cash.
How's that for ten minutes?
It's a lot to fence.
I'm not going to fence it. I'm going to keep it and take it where no one will recognize it.
Where would that be?
Somewhere west. Far west. Past the Mississippi River, somewhere into that territory.
That's a hard journey for a woman alone.
You'd be with me.
You got it all planned and straight, is that it?
Once I said I'd be with you I wanted someplace we could be together. Someplace better than here. What's the matter with that?
Nothing. Except there's no place but here for me right now. I got to settle things.
Yeah, I know, but I'm talking about settling down, not settling debts.
You don't have my obligations.
It's a fair day's wage. We just move the people out of the building, and collect.
Who from?
Who owns the building.  Them.
 I'm glad you came in force. There's half a hundred people still in there.
Maybe more.
And not one's given rent the whole year.
You live here?
No, no, of course not.
I mean in the city. A ways north, I'll bet.
Yes. Why?
It's not just citizens in there?
Of course it is.
with arms?
From their damned gang. Some of them live there.
Some of who?
We didn't contract for that.
We'll pay extra for the danger.
No danger. But you will pay extra.  Let's go and greet some Natives.
 Alright, then?
Very much alright. Quite a spectacle.
Oh really? Just the entertainment you favor, is it? Pardon me for a moment, gents.  You wanted to settle, you and me. That's so, isn't it? You did agree, did you not.
I did, yes.
Good, because I didn't want to act hasty. I can never tell for sure what you're thinking, and sometimes I'm not always sure what you're saying...
 Excuse me, we have to finish and...
 Excuse me. We'll conclude in a moment.  Where do you settle?
Amsterdam, what are you saying?
I'm asking, where does anyone settle?
I don't know, you mean a place, a home?
A home yes.
Excuse me, but we really must conclude.
 Well, I'm saying to you then, Jenny Everdeane, welcome home.
Fine place. Room enough for all.  Get them out of here.
They'll come back looking for you.
With whose help? The Natives? They won't help these flourishing bastards even for ned.  Tell any who wants they can stay. If they can't pay rent they can join the gang. But make sure the best rooms go to us. Look around ...
 I know this building.
These lead all under the Square, into the Brewery and out again from there. They're closed off and forgotten since the Reverend opened the mission. Pass me the candle.
We lived in this building till she lost her seamstress work and we went to the Brewery. One day she slept so drunk she never woke and I brought her back here. Dug this myself.  Families. Give here what I gave you.
She'll keep an eye on this for us. How about some help?
You trusting me with your treasure, then?
Just take another look at it to remind you. I can always do fine on my own.
What's mine is yours, is that it?
I could use this, too.
You making an offering to the Reverend Raleigh?
Are you sure we can trust your mother?
The building and how many?
The Dead Rabbits are a wooly bunch alright.
Not just now. It's between too late and too soon. They've become a little too prominent for comfort, but they're still too small for you to soil your hands. The man who killed Monk Eastman pushing around a mob of upstarts. It's practically undignified.
Very well, and to hell as well with any plans you and I may have for growth and change and even greater reward. You'll never advance anywhere beyond the limited perimeter of your imagination.
Got to, no. But ought to.
 An invitation. To dinner.
He never had his own cross. Thanks.
Your touch is light, but as a tracker you work awful heavy. Come ahead. Now that I met your mother, you should come and meet my father.
You should finish the stone.
It'll be finished when everything's finished. That's when helll rest. The hand that killed him is the hand that will bury him in peace.
It was Bill killed him, not you.
With my hand on the knife.
And his hand on yours!
And me feeling the life go out of my father! He looked at me ... he looked at me and he swore me with his eyes. I could feel his spirit... I say I could feel it rising... flowing through the knife like blood into my own heart.
You talk like he lives in you.
I don't want him to live, I want him dead! I kill Bill and I'm free of them both!
You think you can be free that easy? You need your way so clear, and you''' use anything to clear it. Anyone, too. Me, everybody, we're all just a way for you to settle your damned ghosts.
You're part of me now, like the gang is part of me and my father both. If I can bring us to glory, then my father... like The Book says...my father can enter his house justified.
All of us is set on the same road together. The gang can have everything they ever wanted and get me what I want while they're doing it. We're not interfering with each other, we're helping each other. It's all the same, we're all one together.
We'll all have a share of the profit like we'll all have a portion of the fame. If we come to be notorious, that only means we're strong, and if we're strong that means we're ready.
And I'll know that time, know it right off when it comes. Just like I knew you.
And just like that, there'll be no way of stopping till it's ended.
Now! Finish him now!
Our man will take him in another five. What puts you in such a hurry?
I want to extend thanks and admiration not only to our two combatants today, but to their sponsors, the Dead Rabbits ...  ... and the Native Americans.
Their generous support allows me to bring you this splendid exhibition. With their indulgence I'd like to remind you also of the further wonders that await you at my new Museum, located on Broadway...
... P.T Barnum's gallery of wonders from worlds natural and unnatural, from nature and from myth!  And to encourage you also in the view that new Albany ordinances forbidding sportive violence on land shouldn't dampen your enthusiasm for wagering. Bets down, entlegen, and you gents..  ... fists up!
Dobbs will take him this round. That'll be something. The Natives has never lost before.
Because there's never been a Dead Rabbit fighting before.
That'll shame them thorough.
There'll be worse than shaming. We only got the Natives in range.
Don't push the Natives too far, Amsterdam. Otherwise it'll be Tammany pushing back.
That don't matter any more.
It does matter, and it's going to matter even more. Tammany's the heart and future of this city. If the Rabbits is going to keep growing, we're going to have to throw in with Tammany some way.
They got that Conscription Act from Washington keeping them busy, but they won't leave us alone forever. And the Natives is strong as they ever been!
 You call that strong, John?
 This is our time now!
 The winner... gentlemen, please! ... the winner in the 39th round is the Dead Rabbits champion, High Water Dobbs ... please, gentlemen!
Just a moment, please, gentlemen! There's a word for us all. Amsterdam promises ... 
 To the death. If he can stand up to it.
... on which money, I hasten to add, may certainly be wagered. The names of the two champions are Amsterdam Vallon, here beside me, and ... and Mr. William Poole, known to all as ...
Come on, Bill! Let go of your Tammany wet nurse! My challenge, your terms.
 Don't do it, you can't do it! There's the Conscription to deal with, and elections coming, too. That's your calling now, not these ancient quarrels.
I remember it better from another time.
Your release from service, according to the terms of the Conscription Act. Keep it somewhere safe.
Hey, tell your Papa to pass me three hundred dollars too.
Tell him if he don't we'll come get you on our way to Gettysburg.
No thanks owed, son. Conscription's Federal Law, and so's the $300 exemption. You might remind your father, though, that you saw me here today, minding that the law's strictly and equitably enforced.
You see how much they like this damned law? Enforcing it's going to hurt us in elections.
It's not my law, and not my liking, either. But Washington's always treated us with sufferance, and we must extend the same regard to them.  Boys, we are bound by honor and love of country to fight in this time of crisis!
We're bound by our wallets and the emptiness in them, that's what!
Boys, the union is in distress, our land is wounded deeply, our future is suddenly a frail and finite thing. We must ask ourselves how...
Yeah, you could talk a dog off a meat wagen, Tweed. But let's see you fight!
That'd be worth twice three hundred dollars to see!
 Thank you, boys, thank you for your understanding.  Holy Mother.
Daniel, between the blindness of Washington and the damned brass of Bill Poole Tammany will fall like an autumn leaf. We must take what measures we can. Attend to the Butcher. After the elections, of course. Unless you think Amsterdam will do our work for us first.
He could at that. Then he would become a fresh concern
Not so daunting as this.  Boys, I've just had a word with your compatriots inside, and if you show half the sand and a fraction of the spirit they have manifeste for joining this great struggle...
Put a rope around it, Tweed, and swing in your own wind!
Great weeping Jesus, Daniel, whatever happened to the halcyon days?
I swear that science will be the death of industry.
The telegraph moves the voter tabulation by wire faster than we can get the repeaters in and out.
 Your role is to expedite, Daniel, not to explain.  Do something!
If you'll allow me.
There's a scheme we might try.
You got no place among us, get the hell out of here however you come in.
A moment please, Daniel. One moment.  You're a Dead Rabbit, aren't you? Friend to Amsterdam?  And therefore no particular friend to us. What brings you here?
Opportunity. Science and opportunity.
You got opportunities enough among your own.
I did have. But times change faster than people. Some people, anyhow. And I like to stay with the advantage.
Well, then, a Gentleman of foresight! Are you suggesting... or perhaps you're even saying... that your friend and your gang may be ... well, lagging behind the great march of history?
Something like that, yeah.
Well fine, step up to history then and tell us what you have in mind.
I ain't goin' up there. I got my election suit on.
This election'll be over unless we get up there.
"We?" This was your notion, you go up there.
 Him. He looks likely, and he ain't workin'.
 Sheeny Mike, you want to make ...  ...how much?
A dollar.
 Five dollars? Just to help us?
 What's the pitch, Johnny? Amsterdam wouldn't like it, working with Tammany.
Well, now, if Amsterdam wouldn't like it ...
 He knows about it. Welre working a whole new scheme. But I won't tell him youlre helping, if that's the way you want it. And you can keep the full five. Just start climbing.
 Where's the ned?
He was working a Tammany job, Tammany will see to him.
He wasn't Tammany. Not like you.
He made the right choice.
You don't know what you're saying! You killed one of our own. One of your family!
 I didn't know he was going to die, Amsterdam. And don't tell me what's my own and what isn't. You're not my family. And I swear, I swear on the Virgin Mother's eyes ... I know what I'm doing, Amsterdam. It's you that's always been blind.  I'll say my farewells.
You still smell like drink.
New Tammany victory! Fernando Wood elected to third term! Tammany ticket prevails by narrow margin! Boss Tweed vows Armageddon for crime!
 Can't you hear the future?
We say the Square is the place. Let Barnum sell the tickets for a share of the price...
 A small share.
And the Rabbits and Natives will split the majority portion equal.
Who works the crowd?
Nobody. This is a day of honor. No pickpockets, no lush-rollers, nothing.
We got to fix positions for everyone so there won't be no other fighting. I know for fact the Roach Guards has sworn blood against the Black Birds, and the Forty Thieves don't tolerate the Chichesters.
Amsterdam will make the Butcher a fine banquet.
My ned's on the boy. He's got the youth, and he's got the hunger.
Is he so hungry you'll put up a hundred?
Two.
Your honor... yes, and the law of the land... lies in the balance. The Conscription Act of 1863 was handed down by President Lincoln himself ...
 If Lincoln signed it, then let Lincoln fight!
Tammany's been our voice, let Tammany pay the exemption for all!
 That must be the vanguard of Barnum's army.
This city will burn like Gomorrah.
Then we'll take what we can before it gets too hot.
I think it's past that already.
It'll never come to that. These people ain't gang-led and they have no purpose.
Fight better and not get so mad. They're only doing what they should have done years ago. Why'd they ever think there was another way to live?
They believed what people told them, that's all.
What people is that? The Reverend at the mission? Boss Tweed? Daniel Killoran? People like Johnny Sirocco?
You believed Johnny.
Hell.
And I believed you.
I ain't done nothing different than what I told you, Jen.
I believed what you said abaut being with me, with me alone. But you lied to me. It's not me alone, it's just you and Bill Poole. Youlre so blood-blind you can't see nothing else, not even this!
I don't care a fine damn about what they want! It's what I want! They won't dare harm the Points, that's all I care about! Let them turn the rest of the city into hell! It's another country anyway.
It's not a country for me, Amsterdam. I don't know about you. Will you come with me?
Not now.
Now is when I'm going. Will you come?
I don't want all this fighting to go to waste, Jen. I want to come out of it with something. And I got to be waiting for the Butcher.
We're with you, don't harm us!
Show us your spirit and come out with us then!
And put a candle in the window to show you're one with us! Every light is a flame against the draft!
What is it?
Cops has everything closed to the north, and the militia's coming.
My Daddy don't have to die for you! Why should he fight and die for you?
I'd kill you for this.
No we ain't going to fight, but we can take something for ourselves out of this.
I want to know who hung them bodies in the Bloody Angle. I want to address who done it.
Five thousand people in the street done it! Boss Tweed done it! Abe Lincoln done it! There's nothing you can do about any one of them but stay with us. You'll have a little of your own back.
How's that?
These riots are a gift. They...
... they've made everything clear, as you might say.  Are you with us, then?
Until I can get out. I'll go with you...  ...meantime.
Good. We're going for the Armory at Canal Street.
The Armory! We'll have to beat the militia to get there.
There's a way through the lines. Jen, did you see the cops and militia?
I can show you from here where they are. I doubt they'll get to the Armory in force before midday tomorrow.
We'll get there first. We'll take everything we can carry, and destroy the rest so no one else has the use of it, the militia, the Natives, nobody. Then we'll turn to real business. We'll go down to the Battery.
Why, we going to take a sail to Europe?
No. But we could, after this. We're going...  ...we're going to take the banks. The government banks.  Are we not?
 Seems we are.
They attacked me! I had every sympathy for them at first...
Too much sympathy, Horace. Writing these riots were a rising against "unjust laws and unsuitable law-givers." The shame!
I suspended the draft at noon but the mobs only grew more virulent. It is a criminal rising of the lowest class, of the Gangsters and rabble who have been allowed by Tammany to run lawless!
It was Tammany and the rabble that elected you, Governor. And it's Tammany and the gangs who'll stop it. Isn't that so, Bill?
He's here on our business and my invitation. He's already been of great help. What's the opposition strength, John?
Each candle is against you, gents.
"Against you," sir? Don't you mean "us".
 Some of us come from those people, Mayor. I'll not deny they still claim part of me.
Which part? Perhaps your heart.
Gentlemen, I'm sorry you find it necessary to question the loyalty of my friend here, and by extension, my own judgement. So as proof ... John, where will the mob go? What will the gangs do?  Go on, tell them what you told me.
There's no telling about the mob. Or the small gangs. But the Dead Rabbits ... if I was Amsterdam...
 As indeed you nearly was. Were.
... if I was ... I'd figure to take the Rabbits to the Armory.
Would you agree with that, Bill? Wouldn't you do the same? If you were fighting against the militia instead of beside them?
 You will have to fight beside them to take the Armory. It cannot fall into unfriendly hands.
We're all of us swept up in a great tide of events, Bill. Have you learned to swim?
I'm sure that Bill will do his usual splendid job. But after that ... well, I'm afraid he's grown away from us.  He shows distressing signs of... shall we say, free-thinking. Crime flourishes in chaos, and these riots could encourage Bill to overstep himself. He no longer inspires in me the same trust... well, that you might. If you can prove yourself further.
You already said in front of everyone you trusted me.
In vital things. Would I be talking to you now otherwise? Vital things, but small things. Are you equal to greater responsibility and opportunity?
Such as what?
Ridding me of Bill the Butcher.  He may question your loyalty to me, but Bill would never believe you had the sand to go against him. He'd never expect it. Do you have the sand?
Let him in.
Did you miss us, John?
Not a bit.
 Are you here to spy?
I don't have to spy.
 I know what you're doing. I told Tweed what you're doing.
You don't know what I'm doing.
You're going after the Armory.
Am I now? Why do you think that?
'Cause that's what I would do, and you and I think alike.
No more. And it don't seem worth a visit to tell me something you already think I'm doing.
There's something else alright. Tweed's arranged to kill Bill the Butcher.
 Who could Tweed get to do that?
One of his own.
There's no one around him...
 Listen, it don't matter who, it's going to be done, that's all! Tweed ain't going to wait around for you and Bill to settle yourselves. I'm telling you so you have a chance.
Chance of what?
A chance... a chance to do what you want. Bury the Butcher, draw what blood you got to. But you better make speed. The Natives will move on the Armory too.
And what's any of it mean to you?
It means whatever's left of friendship, I don't know. There's still part of me here. I don't want to see you lose everything in your life at once.
I'm going to lose nothing.  If you believe me, you can stay.
I got to go.
So Tammany's going to kill the Butcher. That puts you and Tweed on the same side. Does that make the path clear enough to suit you?
Then you better learn to fight locking over your shoulder, Bill, because that's the only way you'll ever see it coming.
One reason. You're my kill, Butcher. No one else is going to have you, not Tweed, not Tammany, not those pigs in the street. No one--not even you, Bill--will ever take the pleasure of your death away from me. I'd do anything to keep you for my own, even if I have to protect you.
Fine, so long as I pass you on my way.
Someone I credit.
You join with me and we fight against Tammany, fight them back and out of the Points. Then you and me can settle. But if you don't join with me, then there won't be no settlement because you'll be murdered in the street and the whole Points will be mine.
Why don't I make it easy for you, then.
Same as you're making it easy for Tweed.
Where's the Native Americans?
Ain't seen them. Ain't here.
And the militia?
There's a detachment coming on from two streets over. The rest is still north of here. What are you after?
The Devil himself couldn't take that place.
That's why he sent us.
 Help me. Oh please help me. He's shot, we need a doctor, please help.
Miss, we ain't a medical outfit. The main unit's ten minutes behind us, they'll have...
Help us, we got wounded!
We can't leave the post.
Open the damn doors then! We're bad hurt!
Where's the others?
Just behind us! But I got our major here wounded so bad half his guts is out!
God, it's good to see you!
Likewise.
 Move fast! We got to get out with everything we can before the militia gets here!
It's from the Armory Guards. That's the last before the wire went dead.
 If the Rabbits are already at the Armory, where the hell is Bill and the militia?
They got to be near.
So long as they're near, it's alright. The Rabbits can take the Armory, but they can't hold it. If Bill can get into position, he can make sure they don't get out.
Alright then, John, you pray to any God you choose that's the fact of it. If Bill thinks he can best the Natives, that is your opportunity. That is your moment.  Are you a Bible man? The Book says in Revelations, "I saw a new heaven and a new earth." If the hand of God's not on you to fulfill that prophecy, then the hand of Tweed will be. Go on and God bless.
I don't believe he can do it, Tweed.
Oh, I think he can. Whether it's one man against another or a mob against the city, the mathematics remain the same. You never enjoyed the enlightenment of poverty, did you, Governor? If you had, you'd know you can always hire half the poor to kill the other half.
I can't spare the men or stand the risk! We stay fast and smoke lem out!
Tweed.
 No. There's no friends for me.
Go on, then, talk.
 Come ahead then. And bring my friend's body.
Tammany's put us all in the same place. You want to get out alive?
I don't want to lose you so easy. You'll never get past the militia unless you come with the Dead Rabbits.
I'm not forgetting where I put it.
What's your call, Bill?
Go ahead them, give them cover! Give them some damn cover!
Whose gang might it be?
Which way you pointing that?
Any way you say. One direction could let us out, the other will let them in.
Who do you want to fight, Bill?
 See you in the street.
You'll have a warrior's funeral anyway, John.
But you and me ain't settled.
Then let's start over.
