Thinking he's sure to be shot, Tom runs into the old barn!
Tom jumps, panicked, just as a SHADOWY FIGURE creeps into the barn and levels a glinting shotgun at him! Tom freezes, bends over, and throws up! When Tom looks up, a ray of light reveals the half face of a fierce gray bearded man, FELIX BUSH. He is holding out a handkerchief to the boy. Shaking hard, Tom hesitates then takes it and wipes his mouth. Bush pushes open the door and gives Tom a sad look that the boy will never forget before waving him away.
Just a boy, that's all.
Mornin', sir.
Hard life if you can't read..
Pardon? I'm uh, Reverend Gus Horton, sir, how you doing? Bush stops his swing and turns and stares coldly at Horton.
Don't need saving, preacher.
Uh, well, Mr. Wiley Starke has passed on, sir. His funeral is tomorrow and I thought you might want to know since..
Just got old, sir.
Yeah, well.. Bush returns to chopping wood. Feeling awkward, Horton hesitates, starts for his car, stops.
Mr. Starke told me that you and him ran away from home when you were 6 years old. Is that true?
I talked him into it. Bush doesn't turn, just keeps chopping.
Well.. anyway.. I.. alright.. Horton shrugs, get in his car, and leaves. Bush strikes the log hard and a cleaved piece goes flying.
Well hell..
Always thought you'd go first.. White as cotton, Bush stares into the lamp that is running out of oil, the light fading fast to darkness. Thoughts tumble through his mind, troubling him, stirring the dark waters of memory.
Ahh, don't look so disappointed.
You better not. Mule looks back, sees an apple in Bush's hand, and stops.
And coffee when we get there.
Mule comes to a wearied stop, breathing hard. Bush climbs off the cart and walks Mule, ignoring the eyes upon him.
Buddy?
Oh! Hello.. Horton comes to Bush but Bush ignores him and keeps critically looking around.
What can I do for you, sir? Suddenly BUDDY and KATHRYN ROBINSON  enter from the vestibule with their new BABY. In their own world, and not realizing that there is anyone in the chapel, Kathryn picks some lint from Buddy's jacket. He catches her fingers and kisses them. Bush is transfixed by the loving moment.
I can wait. Buddy and Kathryn see Horton and double-take Bush. Buddy nods to Horton and he and Kathryn step back into the vestibule to give Bush and Horton privacy.
It's alright, have a seat. Bush sits down uneasily in a pew. Horton sits down in the pew in front of him and twists around to face him. The wintry light from the near window washes over them.
What's on your mind, sir?
Bout time for me to get low.
Get what?
Down to business Bush reaches into his overalls and puts a balled-up wad of MONEY on the pew. Horton's eyes bulge.
Need a funeral. Horton looks up from the money.
For who?
Me. Buddy peers around from the vestibule, listening, curious as hell, until Kathryn pulls him back.
For you?  You want to buy a funeral for you?
Am I not talking right?
No, yes, I'm sorry. Are you sick sir?
Everybody dies.
True, but..
I don't take care of my bones it won't get done, will it?
All right, I see. Well the church can help you get your affairs in order, arrange a service.. Horton glances at the strange wad of money again.
What would you say?
About what?
Me.
A eulogy? I.. don't know. What do you want me to say?
Say what you'd say right now to my face.
Well. I uh, I don't know much about you, Mr. Bush. I mean, I've heard stories but..
What stories? Bush leans in and stares into Horton. It feels like everything in the world stops dead. Buddy peeks in again, this time Kathryn peeks too.
Just stories..  .you know, people talking.
What kind of stories? Say one.
Sir.. my mother used to say that gossip is the devil's radio..
I paid. Horton has no idea what Bush means. He looks at the money, back at Bush.
Well.. you can't buy forgiveness, Mr. Bush. It's free. But you do have to ask for it.
Nothing in this world is free, preacher.
That was, uh, different.
I heard such awful things about him when I was a kid.
My mother probably told you some of them. Kathryn goes back into the church with Horton who is cooing at the baby. Buddy lingers, staring at Bush, thinking..
Bush looks up and stares at him. The diner door snaps open and BONNIE , Tom's mother, steps out. She sees Tom and Bush staring at each other.
What are you doing, son? Now Tom is scared to death that Bush is going to tell on him. Bonnie doesn't like this staring match at all.
Empty those cans in your daddy's truck and get back in here. Now. Finally Bush drops his gaze and lets Tom off the hook. Relieved, Tom heaves the can up into the truck. Bonnie hesitates then goes back into the diner just as... .CARL , his sidekick, GARY, and two other MEN come across the street toward the diner. Gary sees Mule slurping coffee from the big tin cup.
Look at that. A mule drinking coffee!
Finally found somebody that likes Bonnie's coffee. As they move past, they see Bush standing there..
Ya'll better hush, that's old Bush. Carl eyes him. Gary and the others throw curious glances as they head into the diner. Carl stops.
Hey..
We know about you. You stay out of this diner. There's women and children here and we don't want you around them. Bush stands to mount up, never turning around.
You better hear me. I see you here again, I'll.. Hey! Hey! Hearing the hollering, Tom looks up from the pick-up. Carl throws a stone, harder this time to get Bush's attention.
Shit.. Carl moves up to try and calm him.. .as Bush tries to ease Mule down the cart hitch grinds a GASH in Mule's hind-quarter. Mule whinnies painfully, slowly surrendering. As Carl steps up, Bush yanks the BRAKE HANDLE off the cart and hits Carl in the chest. Air explodes from Carl as he gasps with pain. Before he can move, Bush hits him again in the same place. Carl wants to hit back but he has no air. Lightning quick, Bush steps back and hits Carl again in the exact same place. Carl falls like a bag of bones. He looks up and sees Bush towering over him with a terrible bottled up darkness in him. It has all happened so fast it feels like an awful dream to Carl.
Daddy! Wild with fear, Bonnie and Tom run toward Bush.
Stop it!! Get away! Gary, the Worker burst from the diner but see the brake handle in Bush's hand and slow down. Bush comes to himself, sees everyone staring, sees Carl in tears, and now Tom and Bonnie, trying to get him away.. Gary and the others slowly move toward Bush. More patrons step out from the diner. Buddy races up, sees Mule bleeding, and eyes Bush as he grabs the reins and leads Mule down Main street, still holding the brake handle.
Frank?  There was a fight. It was..
.let me guess. Hmm. Carl?
Well yeah but this time it was with that old man Bush.
Old man?
No, the old man did the beating. Never seen anything like it.
Social event of the year and I missed it. Frank lowers the paper so just his eyes appear. He has no southern accent and doesn't look small town.
Read the paper today?  Something strange is happening in the world right now.
What?
People are dying in bunches.  Everywhere. But here. He puts the paper down and studies his socks.
I wonder what the odds are of a funeral home going broke? I mean you have a business everybody on earth needs, you can't make that work, it's got to be you right? And yet.. I don't know.. what do you do when people won't die?
Well..
Onethingabout Chicago, people knowhowto die; they drown, get runover,shot, whatever it takes.
We get it done down here, we're just not in a hurry about it.
It's them or us. Frank sighs and stares forlornly out at a casket.
How much did he have?
It was all wadded up.
Ooo, hermit money. That's good. Buddy sees Bush's signs.
There it is..
What are you doing?
You've been wanting a shot at sales..
But..
As of right now, you're on commission.  Remember; foot in the door, establish trust, and drop the hammer. Buddy hesitates, crawls out, and eyes the shack.
I'd feel better if you'd go too.
No doubt but if you don't do this by yourself, you won't know if you're any good. And you'll never be any good if you don't know you are. Go get him!
Hello? Nothing. He shoots a look back to the hearse - miles away, and knocks a little louder. Nothing. He inches to the window and peeks in one of the remaining glass panes then starts to slide away..
Buddy spins and discovers Bush standing on the ground behind him, his shotgun barrel pointed between Buddy's eyes.
Want to see in my house, do you? BOOM! Bush blows away several windowpanes and re-aims at Buddy's head.
How's it look? Buddy closes his eyes, his last words are for his wife..
Oh, Katie.. It makes Bush peek out from behind the barrel.
You was at the church with your wife and baby. Buddy opens his eyes and can't believe he is still alive.
Yes, sir.
What the hell you doing here?
I can't remember.
What? They stand there while Buddy thinks..
Oh yeah, I heard.. you wanted a funeral.
Funeral?
Yes sir. I work at uh.. I work at..  .Quinn Funeral Home. I thought I could help you. Bush glances at his blown out window: 'Damn'. He lowers his gun, walks up onto the porch.
You like rabbit?
What? Bush goes inside. Buddy looks desperately back at the hearse but can't see Frank. He doesn't know whether to run for it or not.
Sit down. There is only chair at the table so Buddy dumps the glass off a small stool under the window and sits down low. The wonder of not being dead makes him look at everything with new eyes. On a window sill he sees a beautiful little CARVED MULE emerging from a block of wood.
It's how you put things together, see? Some things go, some things never will. Indians said that everything spoke to them. That's how they made medicine and knew what to eat. Things talked to them clear as we talk. You believe that?
I.. I don't know, sir.
If you don't listen you won't hear nothing. Bush puts the big skillet on the table and sits down. Buddy is so low he can look under the table and sees how the table legs run right into the top without screws or nails.
Did you make this furniture, sir? Never seen any like it. Can't even tell what's holding it up.
Magic. Buddy looks up. Bush is dead serious. The word lingers. Finally..
Alright. Well. Sir, if you do want to plan for a funeral service, which I hope will be a long long time away, we'd treat you with respect and offer a good..
What'd everybody say about what happened in town?
I don't..
That crazy old son of a bitch tried to beat a man to death for no reason? That it?
There's two sides to every story. As Bush puts some rabbit on Buddy's old yellowed plate..
People say that. But they don't mean it. They think what they think and they don't want to know anything else.
Yes, sir, but I think people are so scared of what they don't know that they make things up to feel better about it.
Like life after dying. Heaven.
Lord, that's good..
You boys been coming out here to throw rocks through my window for 20-30 years.
I never..
Ya'll know lots of stories about me?
Tell one.
I'd rather not. Bush eases forward, his eyes slit. The old Bush is back.
I rather you did.
 Well. When I was kid I heard you killed some men in a fist fight.
Is that all? Bush leans back stone-faced. In the silence, Buddy looks over again at the wondrous carving of the mule on the window sill, at the big ears and long face that are being born from the rough block. It makes him smile. But when he glances back, Bush is staring a hole through him.
What's your name again?
Buddy Robinson, sir.
Well, if I need you -- I know where you are. It sounds almost like a threat. It shorts Buddy out. He stops eating and realizes that Bush has taken another turn and that he's been dismissed.
Oh yes Ma'am, I do respect your wishes but you see..
.state law requires.. No ma'am, we can't bury him under the house.. There is a loud KNOCK at the door. Buddy goes to get it.
Well just for argument's sake, Ma'am, how would we get the casket under the house? No casket?
But you have to have a container of some kind, Ma'am for decency and uh, sanitation. Bush enters the Funeral Home. As Buddy starts to close the door, Bush catches it.
Leave it.
Yes, Ma'am, but there's lots of natural things that aren't decent.  He did what?! Good God. No, Ma'am, I didn't know that about your husband. Well, yeah now I understand why you want him under the house but still.. The phone goes dead. FRANK sighs as Bush walks in.
Frank Quinn, Mr. Bush. Frank takes a quick swallow from his cup to fortify himself, then jumps up, smiling, and goes to Bush with his hand out.
Come in, come in, pleasure. Coffee? As Bush shakes Frank's hand, he stares into him, taking everything in, his bloodshot eyes, the wrinkled shirt beneath his suit, his breath. Frank feels downright naked.
You from anywhere?
A little bit of everywhere, I guess. Get him a chair, Buddy! Buddy stands behind the waiting chair.
How can we help you, sir? Bush gives Buddy a look, then looks back at Frank who steadfastly refuses to look at the ball of money.
I'm after a funeral.
Boy, are you in luck.
Solid pecan, steel handles.. Bush eyes it, repulsed.
Mr. Bush is an amazing carpenter.
Forget the box. What else?
Whatever you want, flowers..
No.
Burial plot..
Got it.
A service?
Party.
A what?
A party.
What kind of party?
Funeral party. Stumped for once in his life, Frank looks at Buddy. Then years of honed instincts surge back to life.
We can do that.
And I want to be there. Frank goes behind his desk. Buddy and Bush start to sit..
You will be, I guarantee it.
I want to be there now.
You want to be at your funeral.. party.. alive?  But.. it's not a funeral if you're not, you know, deceased..
Hold on now, it's a detail, we can look at it.
Pretty big detail.
So you'd like to have a funeral party while you're alive so you can go?
Yes or no?
Yes. Buddy is lost.
Buddy, get some paper. We need to make of list of who Mr. Bush wants to invite.. As Buddy starts to get up.
Sit down. Buddy sits right down.
I want everybody to come who's got a story to tell about me.
Say again.
That probably covers 4 counties.. Bush shoots him a look. Frank shoots him a look. Buddy thinks about how great an outdoor life would be.
Then I want 4 counties worth of people at the party.
Well, sir, the thing is, how would you get people to come and tell stories about you that I'm guessing might get them, you know.. shot? Bush scoops up the ball of money and heads out. Now all Frank can see is the money, leaving.
You know what, you go ahead, don't worry about it, we'll think of something. A couple of ideas just came to me.
Like what?
Felix?! Feigning deafness, Bush walks on. Sensing something, Kathryn takes the baby so Mattie can go after him.
Felix! Say hello to me! Frank, eyes wide with surprise, mouths, "Felix?". Bush's shoulder hunch then fall as he turns. He looks into her, taking everything in. When he speaks his eyes and voice are soft.
Hey Mattie. Buddy comes out, surprised to see Mattie and Bush together. Frank walks up behind him and scowls. Kathryn steers them back inside to give Mattie privacy.
Heard you moved off.
I've been back a while.
How are you?
You look like you always did. He abruptly rips himself away and is gone.
How would she know him?
It's none of our business.
So? We got to know. Kathryn shakes her head and goes back outside. FRANK has another look at Mattie then lets the curtain fall back.
See the size of that thing?
What?
What do you mean, what? Goddamn ball of money! He wants a party with pink balloons on his ears, we're gonna give it to him.
But..
I sold 26 of the ugliest cars ever made one December, in Chicago, with wind blowing so hard up my ass I was farting snow flakes in July so don't tell me we can't do this.
But..
That's the last "but" I want to hear out of you. You're a salesman now, sell!
 She called him Felix.
A thousand years ago he was the most interesting man I'd ever met.
Get out of here.
He was. And I don't mean just the way he looked.
I hope not.
Oh no, listen, he was beautiful.
Are you serious?
Good Lord, you had a crush on him!
All the girls did. I know he's something wild that crawls out of the hills once in a while and gets into trouble now but there's still nobody like him.
We have a plan. All we need is a little bit of your time.
What for?
Seeing it is better than hearing about it. Bush looks at the hearse, back at Buddy and Frank.
How much is it gonna cost?
It moves, don't it?
Fancy car for the dead.
Didn't buy it for them.
 We say that funerals are "For the Living" but we forget what that means sometimes, I guess. (to Bush but almost to
I was thinking about your funeral party before I went to sleep last night and I think I understand it a little now. When I was a kid, my folks where killed in a bad car wreck and the people at the funeral home... they did the impossible as far as I was concerned. I don't know what I would've done without them. And I remember wishing that my mother and daddy were there to see how beautiful they made everything. Frank is hearing this for the first time and is shocked. Bush glances softly at Buddy then looks out the side window at the world rushing by too fast. All at once he gives in to it.
Where's he going?
Don't leave me naked.
Mr. Bush, you can get all the hairs cut you want after we take your picture, I'll pay for it. Mr. Tollerude doesn't know whether to cut or not.
Why you want my picture made?
That's what we're trying to tell you. We're gonna run an ad in some papers about your party and put up posters of you.
And you want me to look like this?
Yes.
Why?
Why?
It's how people recognize you, sir.
And you want as many people to come as possible so..
So a crazy old nutter draws more.
Basically. Don't you think?
Do you ever say what you mean? Bush rips the bib off as Tollerude whooshes him to the floor.
Take it.  I'd go see that.
He's paying. As Bush blows out the door, Mr. Tollerude leans against the chair with relief.
Son of a bitch, it's almost worth it.
I wouldn't know you, sir.
Maybe the Devil won't either. Might work out.
Well, normally people don't wear shoes in a casket so..  .what are you, about a 10D?
Pretty optimistic taking a change of clothes to the grave.  How you set for underwear?
Don't wear none.
One question too many.
I don't mean to be nosey but uh.. how do you know Mattie?
She's a peach. Frank and Buddy cut Bush a look. He looks ahead.
We had a go. Frank nearly drives off the road.
"The Lord loves a cheerful giver.."
Oh please.. you think the Lord's taking sides in a poker game in a funeral home? Horton shrugs and points to the divine evidence.
If He is, the Divine's cheating.
Exactly.
Don't agree with me Ray, it makes me doubt myself.
I would have turned down your loan if you were my own dear mother, Frank.
You made my point and don't even know it.
Jesus, would you two stop it! You're worse than two old women.. Ray shrugs, sweetly blase. Frank tries to rein in his temper for her. The loss of the hand is especially hard on Carl who has only a couple of dollars left.
Oh yes. Buying him clothes, getting him a haircut..on credit. Frank shoots him a look.
Took out ads in a bunch of papers too, something about a party?
God, I love small towns.
Who are you talking about?
That hermit, what's his name..
 "Felix" Bush.
You're giving him a party?
A funeral party.
Whatever you're drinking is not being good to you at all.
What the hell is a funeral party?
Hey, the man wants to be at his own funeral. What can I say? I'd like to be at my funeral so I could tell my ex-wife to kiss my..
What makes you think she'd show up for you?
Because, Dear, vultures are constitutionally unable to ignore the dead. Mattie grins which delights Frank, no end. Horton stops counting his money and stares at Frank.
It's that big wad of money of his you're after. There is a crack in Ray's disinterest that he tries to hide.
What money is that?
Felix has money? Everyone is looking at Frank but he shuffles the cards.
He came to see me, wanting a funeral, had a big old greasy ball of money. Talked like he thought he could buy his way to heaven with it.
Is he sick, Gus? Horton shrugs. Frank notes the concern and doesn't like it. Carl coughs and his ribs make him break out into a sweat.
I'll tell you one damn thing, ain't nobody gonna go to a funeral for that son of a bitch. Mattie gives Carl a look
Language..
They might. He's inviting everyone who has a story about him to come. You could tell about him kicking your ass, Carl. Carl looks at Frank as if he wants to cold cock him.
Old man is going to ride the Weird Train right into the ground, isn't he?
Wouldn't you like to know what everybody says about you behind your back, Ray?  Yeah, probably not.
I already know way more about people than I need to.
Or want to.
Amen.
Let's play some cards.
Oh for God's sake, face it Frank, you're broke. This is not about cards. It's a declaration meant to embarrass Frank in front of everyone. Frank feels their eyes on him as he starts to pull off his watch. Ray waves it off.
Please. I've won that 4 times already.
It's who has it last that counts.
Say what you want but if there hadn't been anybody there the other day he would've killed me. And I guarantee you it wouldn't have been his first time. It sounds true and everyone is quiet except Mattie.
Everybody knows you started it.  Don't look at me like that. I remember when you were born. You were the sweetest little boy. What is wrong with you? Momentarily shamed, Carl's face softens and we can see a better man there. He struggles to hold on to it but..
I made a mistake. But there's a line.. and he crossed it.. and everybody knows that too. Ya'll go on and have a party with the devil for his money but I'll dance on his grave someday. Carl snatches his few dollars up and heads out.
You kind of hate to admit it when it comes to Carl but he's got a point. You don't know what Bush is doing. What if he just wants to get everybody in one place so he can turn his shotgun on them?
He wouldn't..
I looked in his eyes. The truth is nobody knows what he's capable of. Maybe even he doesn't know. She looks into him. Frank starts to deal the cards.
Go ahead and lay your watch down, Frank. But I am going to keep it this time, alright, on principle.
I got an idea. Let's try something different.
What are you trying to pull now?
You really think you're that good that nobody sees?
Sees what?
You cheat at everything you do. Even at the bank, you loan people just enough to get'em deeper in so you can foreclose on them.
You are a pathetic man. And a goddamn..
Am I? Then stand up and roll down your socks.  Stand up or I'll stand you up. Ray looks around the table and suddenly realizes that he is irreversibly exposed and alone. The sound of Frank's chair scraping the floor makes him jerk up.
I'll walk you home.
No. Thank you.
Oh, I don't know. Thank you for inviting me though.
I'm sorry about the..we don't always fight, okay, we do, but he's had that coming for..
It's not that. I just..
You came because you don't know what to do with yourself.  I slept on the same side of the bed my whole life, right? But after my wife left me, I switched sides, just like that, and never been able to go back.
When someone you love is gone, you can pour everything, even a lifetime of things into the place where they were but it's still always empty.
'Night. He stares after her, wishing that she could see him the way he sees her.
I didn't hear him wake up.
He didn't.
I'm glad you don't know how quick it can change. She gently kisses his arm and the baby's head. Buddy looks at her, haunted by the very possibility of their absence.
Good Lord. Have you completely lost your mind?
MATTIE Straighten up for heaven's sake before somebody throws a net over you! But she smiles in spite of herself, glances around to see if anyone was watching and moves discretely on. As she does we see that she was talking to a striking WANTED POSTER of a wild man sitting in front of a pond, a swan, and a bridge. The text reads:
Buddy is having misgivings about being here. But Frank gives the thumbs up to the young WCGM ANNOUNCER in the booth, a hopeful kid with a smooth voice and dreams of the big-time. The Announcer hands Bush a set of headphones. Bush is wearing his new clothes and truly looks like a different man. Bush is puzzled by the headset. The kid takes it and clamps it onto Bush's head. He starts to yank them off then hears a song playing inside his head and loves it. But now the announcer cuts the record off and Bush scowls.
Friends, we have a treat for you today on WCGM. Our special guest is going to tell us about an event that everyone is talking about. And here he is, Mr. Felix Bush, the mysterious hermit of Caleb County! How are you today, sir?
I am. Bush is surprised by the sound of his own voice.
So tell us, sir, exactly how did you come up with the idea of having a funeral party before you die?
I dreamed it.
Really?
Why would I make that up? Two seconds of dead air as the announcer finds his feet.
Okay. Now I have to say that you don't look quite like you do on the posters.
I got pruned.
Well, you're a bit of a local legend, sir. I was a little nervous about our interview. I've heard some pretty wild stories..
Like what?
Well uh, just.. from what I understand, you want everyone who has a story about you to come and tell it. Is that right?
You come and tell yours.
Thank you. Now how long have you been living out there by yourself?
40 some years.
40 years with nobody to talk to?
First 38 are the hardest.
But why would you do that, Mr. Bush, shut yourself off like that? Frank isn't happy with this but Buddy wants to hear.
Come to the funeral and maybe you'll find out.
You heard it here on WCGM, folks, find out the answer to the mystery February 16..
One more thing, boy. FRANK and Buddy tense. What's this?
Gonna be a drawing.
What kind of drawing, sir?
You buy a ticket for $5.00 The day of the funeral we draw names. Then when I die, the winner gets my place, 300 acres of timber that hasn't been touched in 40 years. Mattie accidentally cuts a bloom off of a flower.
For 5 dollars?
Send it to the Quinn Funeral Home. Frank's eyes light up like fiery pinwheels and he almost yelps! Buddy looks oddly perplexed and sad.
You heard him! If you want a chance to win 300 acres of virgin timber worth thousands and thousands of dollars, send 5 dollars along with your name and address to.. (off Frank waving and pointing to himself) Frank Quinn at Quinn Funeral Home. As the Announcer begins a song, Bush moves his head in time with the music. Frank and Buddy rush into the control booth.
I'll take a ticket.
You're betting on a man dying..
I didn't mean it like..
Hey, it's his idea! They look at Bush who has taken off the headset and looking at it like he wants to take it home.
It's what you want, right?
Mattie?
Felix? Mattie enters, straining to see into the barn. Her eyes adjust to find him standing near Mule. She is startled and pleased by his new do.
Look at you. I wondered if you were still under that beard.
Wasn't nowhere else to go.
I heard you on the radio.
Well.
You've gotten downright chatty.
I reckon so.
You want to see it?
Do you want me to?
You always know where you stand with a dog. Want to lay here with them someday if they'll have me.
It really is beautiful. Probably looked like this everywhere a hundred years ago.
You leave things alone, they know what to do.
Like you?
No, Ma'am. I don't know what to do about anything much.
You've been alone a long time.
Some people are more suited to it than others, I reckon.
That's funny cause I never thought that it'd suit you. I knew you wouldn't be like anybody else but.. no one to talk to, no one to.. be with.. never. He looks into her then looks away at something.
How you sleeping these days, girl?
How am I what?
You sleep good?
No, not lately. How'd you know? He veers off the path and pulls up a plant and brings it back to her.
Chamomile, it's good when the nights get long. Helps you nod off. She takes it and smiles up at him.
Want to go on a ways?
Yes.
Would you stay for supper?
I don't want to be any trouble.
A supper guest every 30-40 years is not much trouble, Girl.
Alright then. He holds out his arm.
Better stay close, some big old wild cats been eating my chickens.. She looks around and takes his arm.
.or maybe it was me.. She snorts and slaps his arm but doesn't let go..
You always were good with your hands. He puts a glass of tea in front of her and sits down.
You still play the piano?
I teach a few girls.
I got a good feeling when you played. Remember that time you was playing and the lamp burned out? And you went right on in the dark? I hear that song sometimes at night. She shrugs shyly and sips the tea. Seconds tick by.
Sure is quiet out here.
 What?
I said it's..  I tried to write you at times but I didn't know what to say.
Well. I heard you married.
He was a Doctor; a real good man. We lived in St. Louis for awhile. He died unexpectedly about a year ago. I came back here because.. I have no idea why. 
The list of people who are gone is getting longer and longer and sometimes I feel like all I'm doing is waiting for my name to come up.
You have a tender heart, always did. She gives him a curious look.
You can't wait for anything, Mattie. Close your eyes, hold your breath.. stay in one spot your whole life, but you're still moving, like the world's moving under you. There's no waiting.
And there's no getting over some things either, is there?
Reckon not, Little Bit.
Little Bit?! Oh my God, nobody's called me that in.. But suddenly she is lifted from the chair as if by strong ropes. She stares at the wall as she walks toward Bush's bed. Bush is stricken and white. He would stop her if he could but it is too late. She walks right up to the picture at the edge of the lamp light and stares into it as if it is a mirage that will disappear if she blinks. Finally she whirls and looks at him, her face a tortured mask. A strangled sob escapes her. He gets up and stands there staring at the floor. Suddenly she is moving toward him and then past him and out the door. Her shadow merges with the darkness. Bush stands with his head down, staring into oblivion.
Jesus, kid!
Yeah! But, but it's not our money.
Well yeah, no, but some of it's gonna be! We're putting this thing on! Frank rips open two more envelopes and dollar bills rain down to the floor. He's beside himself. Buddy eyes him warily.
He should be here. I'm gonna go get him. They lock eyes. Frank finally tosses him the hearse keys.
I don't know exactly how much your land's worth but looks to me like you could get maybe 10 times that or more. I don't know what to do with it. I mean it's yours to do with what you want but I'm getting a little nervous about it. Never thought I'd see enough money to make me nervous. We should probably talk about the price for everything, the clothes, the ads, the food and drink for the party, the music.. our fee for everything, we'll be fair about that, I'm not worried about it. Bush is looking at Buddy who is looking across the room.
What do you think, boy? Buddy jerks, looks at Frank, at Bush.
Money makes people do funny things. Frank scowls.
I think you should probably put it in the bank, sir.
No! Ray is not..  I mean, if it was my money I'd put it in a bank out of town so everyone didn't know my business. This bank here, you can't trust, that's all I'm saying.
Can I trust you?
Every name, every dollar, is right there!
Not what I asked.
I've done a hell of a job for you. I don't see why..
Mr. Bush, I didn't mean to imply..
Hush.
I've sold horses, cars, houses, hell, pocket watches pinned to the inside of my coat. I'm not ashamed of it. I don't rob banks, don't cheat at cards, and I sleep all right the nights I sleep. What was the question..?
They goddamn.. He nods at the money and suddenly becomes the "other" Bush.
Take out for the expenses you've already had and give me the receipts. As the bills come in for things, give them to me and I'll pay them. Put this money in a box and the boy and I'll take it someplace in the morning. Whatever new comes in, keep it in the bottom of one of them ugly caskets in there 'till I come get it. After the party, name a fair price for what you've done and we'll settle up.
Is it just me or is he extremely fucking articulate when he wants to be?
I don't know who's selling who what anymore.
It's not clear, is it?
Not only that but something feels really wrong.
Hold on. I told you that you were working on commission..
Yeah, but..
So whatever our end of this is, you get a piece.
A piece?
Half. It could help set you up, Buddy. So whatever feels wrong is gonna feel right pretty damn quick,okay? We just have to close it out. From here on, watch me, do what I do, and we'll be fine.
But..
He wants you to go with him to take this money somewhere which means that it's you he trusts. And that's fine because I trust you too. Just don't trust him, okay?
I'm lost again.
Look, that funny feeling you have.. I have it too. And it's not funny. So go along, be friendly, but that's it.
But the critical time is just before it closes. It's like a witching hour and everything tries to come apart. We're not going to let that happen.
All right.
Now go.  You know.. I always wondered why you wanted to work here. I thought you could do a lot better.  I didn't know about your folks, I'm really sorry.
Thank you. He goes on. Frank turns and flips through a large stack of bills, hungrily entranced.
I might have a crying fit coming on too.
Is that right?
Feeling a little weepy.
You boys..
 I can maybe do something really good for us, Katy.
You already have.
I mean, money wise.
About Mr. Bush?
Yeah. I'm getting half of whatever we make off of him.
So why aren't you happy about it?
Didn't know I wasn't.  I was happy for a minute. And then the whole thing of making a carnival out of a person's death, I don't know if it's right.
Is it what he wants?
He says it is.
You are not responsible for what other people do, Buddy, just you.
You're right. You're always right.
At least I am when I'm half naked.
Right.
Mattie sits just behind the girl with tears in her eyes, not really listening. On the table beside the piano is a stack of picture albums and old yellowed newspaper articles.
Where to, sir?
North.
 How far?
Till I say, son. Buddy gives him an uneasy look and pulls off down the tree- lined path.
How much further now? Bush waves him on. Buddy scowls then decides to get serious about this. He presses on the accelerator and the hearse takes off down the highway.
Hey Mattie. He looks almost boyish and bashful as he drinks her in.
Was that you? It was really..
This is a surprise.
Yeah, sorry. He stands, loving the view, forgetting why he is here. She waits it out as long as she can, not sure how she feels about this adoring look.
Was there something you..?
Uh, yeah.. Help!
What?
I'm up to my ears with this funeral and I thought, you know, we haven't had time to talk much lately so maybe you'd like to come over and rip open envelopes with me and
I'm sorry, I have lessons all afternoon. I have to get back in.
Oh, okay, I just..
Sorry. She slips back inside. Frank stares at the door.
Don't say nothing.
To who?
You can say "hi". Bush gets out. Buddy sighs, mimes "Hi" and gets out.
Now he sees a tall BLACK MAN  come out of an office door behind the pulpit, walk up the aisle, glancing out the window at the driveway, and then at Buddy.
Hi.
Hello. Buddy is out of words that he is allowed to say. He glances at the door but Bush is not coming in.
Hi. Charlie holds out his hand, Buddy shakes it.
Are you sure you're in the right place? Not expecting a funeral. Suddenly Bush steps into the church. Charlie squints over then stares at Bush with utter disbelief.
Felix?!
Hey, Charlie. They shake hands, then hug. Buddy is blown away that Bush would hug anyone. Bush looks up at the church rafters.
Still standing.
Yes. Charlie give Bush a look then holds out his hand to Buddy again.
Reverend Charlie Jackson.
Hi!
That's Buddy Robinson, he don't talk much.
Someone better talk. A ghost pulls up in the driveway in a hearse, you expect a little bit of a story.
My hearing is not what it was. It sounded like you said you want me to preach at your funeral party with you sitting there?
Yes, sir.
 You know I've talked to God a lot about you over the years and he said he broke the mould when he made you. Said you were sure entertaining to watch but way too much trouble. Buddy grins.
Well.
What would you want me to say at this funeral?
Whatever you want to, Charlie.
Sit still. Buddy plops back down.
What's the matter? You scared to be alone with me?
He can hear what's said. Buddy is surprised again. So is Charlie.
All right. After you left here.. did you do the right thing?
I did.. what I thought was right.
You confessed? Asked forgiveness? Bush looks off and the muscles jump in his jaw.
Did you tell her, Felix? Charlie sighs, leans on his knees, and drops his head.
You came a long way for nothing then. Bush's eyes jerk back to Charlie and they are hot. Buddy tenses.
You self-righteous..
Don't you dare..
I built my own jail and put myself in it! And I stayed in it for 40 goddamn years! No wife, no kids, no friends! That's not enough?
You know it isn't.
 Well. Why don't you come and say that then, Charlie? Hell, say it all! I don't care.
Not on your life. The air is so heavy you can't breathe it. Bush suddenly gets up and leaves. Buddy starts to follow. Charlie puts his hand on him to stay. They sit in silence a moment.
How much do you know about him?
Almost nothing, sir. I just work at the funeral home.
Do you know he built this church?
No?!
Magic?  Maybe it's the best of him, maybe he put his soul into it, I don't know.
What ya'll were talking about.. what did he do? Who was he supposed to tell?
Are you coming to the funeral? Charlie sighs and looks around. 94A Omitted 94A
Can I ask you something?
Do you have to?
Yes. What are we doing? Since the day you came into the funeral home, I don't think anything has happened that you didn't want to happen. I just don't know where it's going.
There's a whole lot of things that you don't know. Like what a dog dreams. You can make up a story about him chasing rabbits but you don't know if there's rabbits in there or not. And he can't tell you, can he?
Not unless he's a very special dog. They snort together.
People don't say what they mean either so you don't really know any more about them then you do about that dog's dream.
But what..?
I better stop and tell Frank we're back. He's probably had 2 or 3 hissy fits by now.  Why don't you stay the night at the house and I'll take you home in the morning? The simple kindness seems to short Bush out. Buddy doesn't notice, he's still looking ahead.
Well, I... I ain't stayed with nobody in a.. in a long while.
It's fine if you want to. Bush looks as if he might say yes but he NOTICES where the car is passing through and..
Let me out.
What?
Stop the car. Bush starts to open the door. Buddy stops abruptly.
You can't walk. It's too far.. Bush climbs out with his shotgun.
Put the money in a casket.
You might as well get back in, I'll follow you all the way.
 Get the hell out of here, boy! Buddy's eyes are defiant. Bush slams the door and walks away, crossing over a fence and out into a dark field.
Not responsible. Not responsible. Shit. He slams the steering wheel.
Frank? Hello? Mr. Bush? He stuffs the money into the casket, grabs the candelabra, comes back, seals the lid, and starts into the office.
They keep talking about forgiveness.. ask Jesus for forgiveness.. I never did nothing to Him..
The cut's not bad but how's the head? He moves his finger across Buddy's eyes.
Follow it. He looks him over carefully. He's had experience.
Dizzy? Double vision? Nauseous?  You'll be okay. Did you see who it was?
No. I was putting the money in.. heard glass breaking.. locked up the casket quick and.. boom..
You did good.
Doesn't feel good.
Please, Ma'am.
Thank you.
What are you doing here? Burned through, a log falls in the fire. Bush jerks oddly and moves away.
Can I sit a minute? She stares at him then nods at a chair. She keeps standing behind the other chair. He bends over the mug and seems to lock up inside.
You want to know why I have your sister's picture on my wall?
I'm not stupid, Felix. No, I take that back. How long was it going on? She was already married when I met you. Were you just making up to me to get to her? Bush is so still he looks like a gargoyle.
If you're not going to talk, leave.
Can you help who you love? Mattie's face tells us that she has asked herself that question many times.
I've had 40 years to think about it and I still don't know.
I don't know either, so.. Slowly the gargoyle unfolds. His eyes drill into her.
I want to tell you how it was. If you don't want me to, I'll go. Mattie sighs from down deep in her shoes then comes around and sits down.
Don't lie to me. When did you take up with her?
I came to see you and she was there, hanging clothes on the line with your mama. Bush stares out the window so hard, Mattie turns to see what he is looking at..
She turned around..  .and.. I promise you that I did not know that I had a heart till right then.
You were a fine fine girl. I didn't know why you wanted anything to do with me but I was gonna keep coming to see you 'till my luck ran out.
She was married! And she wasn't just my sister, she was my best friend. We told each other everything. I can't.. how long did it go on?! Bush's face is so white it looks like a death mask.
How long?
It's still going on, Little Bit. Mattie tries to absorb that. The truth and tragedy of it touches her in way that she is not prepared for. They sit there in silence. She suddenly wipes her face and scowls.
Did you have anything to do with her death? The mug trembles. She sees it.
Tell me. Like a fish jerked from the water, he mouth opens and closes, but nothing comes out.
Felix!  Get out of my house! NOW! Bush stands up quickly and starts for the door.
And go to hell!
Been there.
Despite her anger, Mattie starts toward him.
You need to see a doctor.. He raises his eyes to her but says nothing. They look into each other for a long moment.
Just tell me, Felix. Did you hurt Mary or not? Bush stares into her then suddenly gets up, picks up his shotgun and goes out the door without a word.
What the hell?! Bush glances at the pistol, at the open drawers of the cabinet and desk.
They get it?
No. Buddy sealed it up in a casket. Took a crack on the head, but..
 Is he all right?
Yeah.
You sure?
I was an army medic. He'll be fine. But Bush is still dark.
But you ought to take those clothes back and get something in your size.
They get the whiskey?
Brought the money back, huh?  Listen, I've been thinking.. What if we had the party at your place? People are going to want to see the land they're getting so..
Don't know.
Well, think about it, we could..
Don't know that I'm doing it.
What?!
Thinking to call it off.
You can't!
Damn well can if I want to.
No no no, it's in motion!
If I say no, it's no. Send the money back.
You're killing me! I bought things, hired people.. promised money, everybody in town is hoping to..
I care about this town as much as they care about me.
It's what you said you wanted and I've busted my ass for you. So why don't you want it anymore? You owe me that.
Are you having trouble seeing?
I see you're mad.
I'm not mad. I'm concerned She shoves the skillet off the burner and comes to him.
If I could get my hands on whoever did this, you'd see mad.
Buddy! You up?! Frank rushes in, lifts a phantom hat to Kathryn, scrapes up a chair, pulls on the baby's toe, and looks at Buddy.
Trouble.
What's the matter?
Bush is pulling out.
What?
What happened yesterday?
I told you, we went up to Illinois and met a preacher.
But what happened?
He asked the preacher to come to the funeral. He said no.
Son of a bitch, that's got to be..
It won't do you any good.
Why not?
He knows something about Bush, something bad, I think.
What is it?
Wouldn't say but..
Well if Bush wants him, by God, Bush is gonna get him.
 You want eggs, Frank, or will the skillet do?
What? What's wrong?
What's wrong? My husband has his head bashed in and all you care about is this party!
It's not like that, Katie, this is for all of us. You're like.. family to me.. I..
This is not how family acts!
Well, I'm sorry. I've never had any practice.  You okay? Buddy nods. Frank leaves. Buddy mutters to the baby..
Stay out of her way today, partner.
Fool, it's too late for bulbs..
.too goddamn late..
Reverend Jackson?  Frank Quinn, Quinn funeral home.
How'd you find me? Frank just smiles, takes off his hat, and offers his hand. Charlie gives him a long look and reluctantly motions him in.
I was going to play some dominos this afternoon. But something told me to stay home. I should have played dominos. Is he out there?
Bush? No, sir.
You sure?
Pretty sure.
Did you check the back? Frank snorts, liking Charlie immediately.
You told Bush that you wouldn't come to the funeral?
If he got that, why are you here?
To help you rethink it.
I don't need any help.
Have you rethought it?  So there is a need.
I wouldn't be so sure about that.  He's got a way of making people do what he wants them to. Frank squirms, knows it true.
Is he really a hermit? Frank whistles and takes Bush's poster out of his coat. Charlie jerks at the picture of the wild man.
He came to see me after he'd been here, wants to call the party off.
I don't care.
Said he'd meant it to be a.. end of the line, tell it all, get out of jail funeral but that he didn't have the guts to open his mouth and he couldn't get anybody to talk for him. You know anything about that part?  At first he said he wanted everybody to come who had a story about him. But he didn't want to hear their bullshit stories, did he? Pardon my language. He wants to tell one, doesn't he?
About time.
Whatever he did, it's been locked up in him for 40 years and he can't get it out.  I think he told you. You may be the only person he told. And now he wants you to tell it for him.
Because he won't.
Or can't.
Or won't.
Or can't.
Is there a boarding house around here?
I said I'd think.
Yeah but if you're not coming, I'm not going back. I made promises I can't keep to people I care about. This falls apart they won't blame Bush. Bank will take my business.. If I'm gonna have to start over again, might as well be from here. Charlie scowls at him.
What are you doing, sir?
Getting a suntan. Bush starts to get up then falls back against the ladder.
Are you stuck?
You have no goddamn idea how right you are, son. Buddy moves to help him up but Bush waves him off.
I'll sit here a minute. Bush looks at the butterfly bandage on Buddy's head.
We're a pair, ain't we?
Are you sick?
Just going through the motions.
What does that mean?
There's Alive and there's Dead. And there's a worst place in between them that I hope you never know nothing about.
No, sir.
Sonsabitches.
It doesn't matter. Listen. Frank went somewhere and the raffle money is gone.
You figure he took off with it?
I don't know. I don't want to think that. But the money's not here and I don't know where it is. He said he'd call and he never did.
Well.. what do you want to do? Buddy looks back at Bush.
I don't..  I want to make this funeral for you if you want it.
 Hell. Do it if you can.
I'm glad you decided to come, sir.
Free will is not all that it's cracked up to be.
Yeah.
Why didn't you tell me?!
I forgot.
You forgot?! Where is it?
In the hearse, under the floorboards. Charlie remembers that Frank said he wasn't coming back and gives him a look. Buddy is giving Frank the same look.
What? Nobody steals a hearse. Now all we got to do is take the Reverend here to Bush and..
I forgot to tell you, Mr. Bush already said he would do it.
You're shittin' me?! Charlie gets up and starts walking away..
Where can I catch a train?
You can't leave you just got here.
Watch and learn.
Hold on..
Where's the station?
The hearse pulls in and parks. Frank, Buddy, and Charlie climb out of the hearse, look around, and stand frozen.
Expecting a crowd? Frank and Buddy give each other a look.
Honestly? We don't have a clue about what's going to happen here.
The big old honking generator is unloaded. Holes are dug. 10 foot poles are slid from the truck and huge speaker horns are attached. Speaker poles are pulled up and set into holes. Frank directs a gang of 6 KIDS who are selling raffle tickets making sure they know that he has his eyes on them. A BAND arrives on the back of pick-up truck. The Generator kicks on belching smoke everywhere. Frank is yelling Whoa Whoa! Disaster in the making.
Pretty nice jail. Charlie enters and looks around the little room.
Why did you change your mind? Charlie just looks at him, the unspoken words louder than any reason he could give.
Thank you.
How do you want to do this?
I don't. He gets a haunted look that catches Charlie off guard.
I'm gonna try and tell it, Charlie, I really am. But if I can't get it done, would you do it? I want it said. Please, sir. Charlie sighs from down in his shoes and starts for the door.
Tell'em the box is in the barn.
You asked for it you old ornery sonofabitch, now what are you gonna do?
Hey, hey, where you going? He said the woods..
Closer.
He's crazy!
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen. I'm Frank Quinn of Quinn Funeral Home. Welcome to the live funeral party of Mr. Felix Bush! People don't know whether to clap or not. Some do and the rest of them pick it up. Buddy gets to Kathryn and hugs her and the baby.
Where's Mattie?
She wouldn't come. I don't..
I've done some things in my life, but never this. Bet you haven't either, bet no one has.
 We try to make things predictable and safe but if we don't risk everything to get what we want, we don't want it enough.
The person who made all of this happen for us doesn't like the spotlight but Buddy Robinson is the heart of Quinn Funeral Home and I'm proud to know him. Buddy is embarrassed and moved. Kathryn's eyes soften.
Sonsabitches. Carl drops his can. The other men drop their cans but Gary starts to pull a pistol from his back pocket.
Go on, I'll paint the porch with his head.
Don't do it! Gary drops the pistol.
Now pick up them cans and keep pouring.
What?
You heard me. The men cautiously pick up the cans..
Pour it on your head. All of it. The men look at each other. Bush cocks the other barrel of his shotgun.
I won't!
Pour it or die, I don't care which. The men hoist the cans and start to pour the gasoline over them. Burning and spitting they empty the cans. Suddenly Theman bolts, moaning and running blind with gas in his eyes.
I got two barrels, anybody else wants to rabbit, now's the time.
I know many of you have heard stories about Mr. Bush. But today I've been told that we're going to hear another kind of story, his. A murmuring moves in a wave across the crowd as they see.. .Bush enters the field with his shotgun pointed at Carl and Gary's backs. They are drenched with gas and it is burning them through their clothes. Buddy, Kathryn, and Horton see Bush. Quinn and Charlie follow the crowd's eyes to Bush.
Holy Mother of.. SHERIFF DEPUTIES beside the stage see Bush. But everyone remains frozen, not knowing what has happened or what to do now. Is this the crazy Bush of the legends?
Buddy starts toward Bush. Kathryn tries to stop him but he pulls free and walks slowly toward Bush. A shot rings out!
Don't hurt him! It's my fault.
Bush cracks his shotgun, walks slowly to the boy, gently takes the 45, empties the shells, and hands the gun back.
A second chance is a precious thing, son. Don't waste it. The boy plops down, overwhelmed. And suddenly everyone is in motion. The Deputies run toward Bush. Frank and Charlie rush from the stage. Kathryn and Horton are going. Buddy arrives at Bush first and sees the blood weeping onto his shirt.
Are you alright, sir?! Without turning Bush glances at the Deputies.
Tried to burn me out. Let the boy be, he didn't mean nothing. As the Deputies get a hold of Carl and Gary, Frank, Charlie, Kathryn and Horton arrive. Carl looks at Horton with pleading eyes and nods to Tom.
Help him, Gus, please..
Folks, I've just received word of a tragic turn of events at the Bush Funeral Party. It seems that Mr. Bush has been shot. I repeat, Mr. Felix Bush has been shot. There is no word of condition..
When I know more I will let you know. I'm sure he would appreciate your prayers..
Close the door. Charlie slams the door. Frank examines the wound. Buddy stares in shock at the old roping burns scars on Bush's chest.
Missed the bone. Got any alcohol and clean rags? Bush nods at the cabinet. Charlie finds an amazing assortment of herbs and roots, alcohol and old sheets ripped into rags.
Why don't you sit down, sir?
Boil some water and I'll tell you how to make me a poultice. Frank takes the rags and alcohol from Charlie
This is gonna hurt.
Don't sugar coat it.
Lord, you say you move in mysterious ways and we believe you because we don't understand much of anything. And so we come to you today not seeking answers to what's happened here but asking you to help us open our hearts a little more to each other and find some forgiveness and understanding.
Pretty good prayer. Mighta been wrong about that preacher.
Why don't you lay down, Felix?
Let's go 'fore I lose my nerve.
Are you sure? Bush scowls at the huge blood stain on his shirt. He looks at Frank's white shirt. Frank just stares at him. Bush keeps looking. Finally Frank sighs and starts loosening his tie.
Frank is putting on an old faded shirt of Bush's. As Bush starts for the door, he comes up beside Charlie.
You ain't nervous? All them white folks out there?
There's white folks here?!
Stick with me, you'll be all right.
You're the one they're shooting at. As Charlie opens the door, Bush stops, all his misgivings flooding in with the light. He looks at Buddy.
Pretty interesting day so far, huh boy? Bush straightens himself up and goes out the door.
I'm Reverend Charlie Jackson. Felix wants to continue with his funeral. And he's asked me to say a few words. Just below the stage, Buddy and Frank are joined by Kathryn. Charlie glances back at Bush, turns inward, searching for the words. Finally he holds his hands out, wide apart.
We like to imagine that good and bad, right and wrong, are miles apart. But the truth is, very often they're.. (brings his hand together and laces his fingers
.all tangled up with each other. Bush raises his head and looks at Charlie's back.
Some 40 years ago Felix Bush dropped into my life and then dropped out. In between he built the most beautiful sanctuary that I've ever seen. A lot of wonderful things happened in that church. Suddenly Bush breaks away, moves up beside Charlie, and puts his hand on his shoulder.
Thank you, Charlie. Thank you. Charlie gives him a long look then steps away from the microphone and moves back to where Bush was standing. Bush stares at the microphone, takes a breath, and walks up to it, and looks out over the huge crowd.
Had to go clear to Illinois to find somebody that had anything good to say about me. Hell of a thing. His voice booms out over the crowd, startling him. He looks down, sees Buddy, Kathryn, Frank and Horton. He looks closer for someone most important but she is not there. The crowd murmurs. Finally..
I'm not a smart man or a wise one. I don't know what kind of man I am. I was always restless, thought I'd see the world. But I didn't hardly go nowhere.. on purpose..
I fell in love with a married lady. And somehow she fell in love with me. It was the only time that I have been in love.
Her husband answered the door.
I hit him pretty hard, knocked him down. Can't remember going upstairs but I remember I saw a hammer on the steps and it had blood and hair on it. The crowd gasps. Mattie is trembling.
I found her in the bedroom. She was crawling across the floor.
And as I was slamming his head into the wall, trying to get shed of him, I could see clear as anything that it was all my fault. If I'd just never spoke to her..
And then I realized that I was on fire. I tried to put myself out but I couldn't, everything was..
Bush and Mattie are looking into each other, one anguished soul to another.
I don't know how I got out the window.
No matter how many times I play it in my mind, I can't remember jumping. I thought I killed him, but maybe he pushed me, I don't know...  I swear to you, if I left her in there.. everything I know about myself is a lie. But that don't matter.
Oh, Felix.. He sniffs her hair and tenderly touches it.
Wonder if her hair would be white?
How you doing, sir?
Just fair, son.
Carl said Ray paid them to set the fire. Paid them to break into the funeral home too.
Can't stop pulling Aces out of his ass, can he?
Spend his money on lawyers now. You know how thrifty they are. Frank motions to Buddy and they go to Bush. Buddy is still holding the baby, Bush looks tenderly at Buddy and the baby.
What's his name?
Larry, Lawrence, after my dad, sir.
He ain't gonna throw rocks at me, is he?
Not if knows what's good for him.
You boys did good. Real good. Let's settle up.
We don't have to do that now. You get some rest.
 Yeah. We'll come out tomorrow.
Bring my shirt back, I just got it broke in.
Are you alright, Mattie? She looks up at Frank for a long moment, her face softening.
Oh, I don't know. I'm still moving, I guess.. He doesn't know what that means but she has finally really looked at him and that's something he'll hold onto. Kathryn comes and hugs Mattie as.. Bush and Buddy come back. Bush goes to Charlie. Frank is staring at Buddy, looking for a clue as to what Bush said. Buddy gives him nothing,
Thanks again for coming, Charlie.
I'm proud of you.
Did you ever get my bill?
Can we get a ride our car's about 2 miles down the road. Everyone piles into the hearse. There is no back seat so they all have to crawl in the back door and sit along the sides. It makes everyone smile. Mattie gives Bush one last fleeting embrace then climbs in. Bush looks in on them all for a long moment all then closes the door. As the hearse moves out, he waves to Buddy who is looking out the back window. Buddy waves back.
A fourth grave marker just like the others leans against the tree. It is freshly carved with: Felix Elijah Bush. A pot of fresh yellow flowers sit beside the marker. Bush's beautiful handmade casket is inside his grave. Frank, Mattie, Charlie, Buddy, Kathryn, and Horton stand beside the grave. Several MEN with shovels wait near the tree. Charlie's eulogy is more of a one-sided conversation which Bush would probably love.
Well, Felix, this one's for real, I guess. I didn't actually see them put you in the box so.. Charlie glances over and notices "Charlie" on one of the dog's grave markers. He snorts and shakes his head.
Wherever you are, you're probably giving someone a hard time or something wonderful and priceless just to confuse them. Not everything can be figured out, nor everybody. I wish you peace from the burdens of your mind and heart. I wish it for us all. Mattie moves toward the edge of the grave. Frank puts a hand out to catch her should she should stumble. She stares down at the FB on the coffin, opens her hand, and lets the picture of her sister drift down onto the coffin.
A 50 on the outside, all ones inside. Less than $100.
What?!
I told you. Nobody listens to the preacher. Buddy pulls some papers from his coat.
The day of the party he told me about the will he had in the secret drawer of his table. He left the raffle money to all of us. Everyone is shocked, touched.
And he set up a fund for the upkeep of your church.
What's the catch?
No catch, sir.
Still don't get it, do you? With Felix, there's always a catch.
Maybe he just knew you'd go crazy wondering what it was. They all laugh and move down the hillside. As the laughter fades we see in their faces the impact that Felix Bush has had upon them. Buddy feels the comfort of this odd but growing family and stops and looks back at the grave and the pot of yellow flowers. His curiosity about the fearsome old man has not abated. Nor will it ever.
