My Father used to say that the only way Evil came into your life was if you invited it. I'm not sure about that, at least not anymore. What I cLQ know is this: we are born alone, and we die alone, and what happens in between is all that matters. The choices we make, the people whose paths we cross -- these are the things that determine our fate. The coyote ducks through a hole in a chain-link fence, weaves through the rusted ruins of a --
Most stories start with a beginning. His began with an ending. I never knew where he really came from. I guess it's not important anymore. All I know is that he'd been running his entire life. Running for so long that he no longer knew whether he was running away from
The coyote reaches a steep ridge, looks out over a patchy Southwestern town.
-- or towards it.
where do you chink you're going, Blaze?
Sick, cutting out early.
The hell you are! Blaze jumps on his bike - a muscular, battered BSA.
Get back to work or your ass is fired!
Aaa n? You say that every time. Blaze kicks-starts the bike. It ROARS thunderously.
 Well I mean it this time!
 See you tomorrow, Little Mike! The bike HOWLS, hauls up on its back wheel. Screams out the shop leaving Little Mike holding his ears. The other workers WHOOP and HOLLER, especially when Blaze snags a pair of BOLT- CUTTERS from a passing tool rack on the fly.
 Yeah, we're on a tight schedule!
So what are you waiting for? Blaze burns away, leaving the pickup for dust.
Christ, Mickey was right on the money!
Car twenty-two!
-- Blaze hears something, looks over his shoulder. He SEES a POLICE CRUISER, far in the distance, burning towards them.
Thank you gentlemen, that's it for today! Jed bangs on the cab roof. Coop waves. Jed and Murphy salute. The pickup peels away. Blaze retrieves his bike. Stands it back up, kicks it alive, guns the throttle and -- -- cold jumps straight out of the car. Seconds later he's powering away, ripping up a storm, chasing the pickup towards the horizon. Far, far behind, the police are still coming.
So how're things going at the shop, John?
 Good, good.
 Yeah? Cause Mike says you've been slacking off, horsing around.
EMPTY_LINE
Blaze sets his fork down, wipes his mouth with his napkin. Conjures up his best earnest look.
Truth is, Mr. Simpson, I've been thinking about clearing out of there. Maybe opening up a shop of my own -- Roxanne raises an eyebrow at this. News to her.
See, I've been saving up. You know, for the baby and all. And I-- DOORBELL. Roxanne rises to get it.
You were saying?
(distracted, looking to the
Right, so anyway --
Blaze looks over. Two Sheriff's Deputies, LUCAS COLE and RICK GEORGE, are standing in the doorway. Roxanne looks pissed -- like this isn't the first time this has happened. Blaze stands, approaches. Clearly, he knows them both.
 Lucas. Rick.
Johnny. We'd like you to come down the station. Their demeanor is hard. Won't take "no" for an answer.
Don't worry, hon. It's just routine --
Hey. She's sound asleep. He crouches, touches her face.
Hey. Roxanne barely stirs, deeply groggy.
Everything's cool.
No. No. Everything's okay. Jed and Murph just got a little boisterous at The Prairie Dog last night. Cops wanted to read us the riot act, that's all -- She yawns, curls up, starts to drift away again.
I was worried about you. And I don't like your friends. But Blaze won't let her go back to sleep. He jostles her.
Listen, I want to show you something --
I'm sure you do. But I'm half-asleep and you're an ass-hole.
I'm serious, Rox. This is important. He drags her up off the couch. Makes her stand up. She MOANS, scowls, but he gets her on her feet.
John, I have to go to work tomorrow
 Put your coat on. You'll be glad you did. Promise. It'll be an adventure. A mystery tour.
This better be good. She stomps to the bathroom. Blaze chuckles inwardly. Steals a fortune cookie from the left-overs, snaps it open -- The fortune is blank. Both sides. He tosses it away.
glittering black, watching.
Alright, I'm here. Now what?
Keep going. It's just up there.
I'm not riding one of those stupid horses.
You don't have to ride, just climb up. She steps up onto the wooden platform, smiles back at him.
You're going to have to grow up one day, Johnny Blaze.
Not if I can help it. He follows her up onto the ride. She weaves through the wooden animals. Starting to enjoy this secret adventure.
Keep going, keep going -- She comes around the other side, catches her breath. The whole valley is spread out before her -- a glorious scatter of diamonds on velvet.
Uh-oh.
Ever hear of a carnival wedding? Roxanne shakes her head. Blaze is fiddling with a crisp, new dollar bill, folding it, making something.
If a man and a woman walk around a carousel going backwards, they're considered hitched.
You made that up.
Swear to God. He finishes folding the bill. The "one" is now neatly set on top of an ORIGAMI WEDDING BAND like a paper jewel.
You want this?
She nods, offering her hand. He slips the ring onto her finger and she examines it, lit up inside.
It's beautiful. He smiles at her joy, wrestles with what he's about to say.
How'd I ever find you?
I don't believe in fate.
Maybe it believes in you. They hug each other fiercely. A long, soulful embrace. Blaze looks to the city lights beneath them once more.
Here's the thing, John. We're having a baby. You can't keep acting like everything's a game. I need you with me. I need to know I'll be able to wake up in the morning and see your face next to mine. Not have to worry that you spent the night in jail.
I know. I'm gonna get my shit together. For Leal, this time,
Don't promise me, promise her.
blinks. THUNDER from the next scene prelaps as we
We gotta go. Get your stuff together.
What happened? What's wrong? Roxanne follows Blaze into the bedroom.
What did you do?
I fucked up. The police are coming. Grab your things. We have to go. She sags, clearly been through this before. He tosses a suitcase onto the bed, looks back at her.
Just do it, Rox!
as he storms into the bathroom. Reaches behind the high cistern, retrieves a hidden HANDGUN. He jumps down. Tears the side panel off the old bath tub. There's a stack of FLAT BLACK BOXES hidden within. Blaze drags them out, drops one - It pops open, spilling UNCUT DIAMONDS all over the floor. Blaze CURSES, struggles to gather up the loot.
Jesus, Johnny --
standing in the doorway. She sawit all.
Fuck.
Blaze floors the gas. The speedometer leaps.
Slow down, John -- Another sketchy turn. Blaze spins the wheel, brakes, hard. Too hard. The car hydroplanes, finds purchase --
LIGHTNING flashes, and suddenly, there's a
or, the road, right in their path.
Blaze jerks the wheel. Roxanne SCREAMS. The car skids, slews off the road, CRASHES through a guard rail -- It plunges down a washout, flips end over end, shedding glass and wreckage, finally SLAMMING to a dead stop at the bottom of a rocky arroyo.
Roxanne --? He struggles to free himself from his seat, SEES a torn seat belt hanging beside him -- the passenger seat mr)ty.
Roxanne?!
EMPTY_LINE
lying ten yards away, unconscious, maybe dead. Blaze scrambles to her, rolls her over. He hauls her into his arms, SOBBING, the two of them covered in mud and glass and God knows what.
are coming down the incline, guns drawn, FLASHLIGHTS beaming. They descend on Blaze, crying to pull him free of Roxanne.
Let me see her! God-Dammit! I have a right to see her --
Get your fucking hands off me! Lucas Cole, the deputy who questioned Blaze earlier, approaches. Blaze SEES him and calms down a little.
Please. Just let me see her. Cole nods to his men, who ease up on Blaze. He guides Blaze over to an observation window --
Roxanne lays in a surgery bay, DOCTORS and NURSES milling around her.
Mr. Blaze --? Blaze turns, SEES a nervous DOCTOR standing behind him.
Is she going to make it?
 Mr. Blaze, I --
)_a ch= going r4 make i r?
We don't know. She's critical. Her injuries are grave. There's a real chance she won't --
What about the baby? The doctor hesitates, glances at Cole.
I'm so sorry. We did everything we could. Blaze's will shatters as the full realization of what he's done slams into him. Tears sting his cheeks. Cole gives him space. Whatever punishment awaits Blaze can't be any worse than the hell he's living through now.
walk purposefully on linoleum. Passing bay after bay. Beyond the Troopers, SOMEONE is approaching, half seen through layers of glass. Blaze HEARS the footsteps, lifts his weary head. The shadow keeps coming, half-glimpsed between partitions as it draws near.
steps into view. Duster-coat. A wide-brimmed cowboy hat. A smiling stone face. Blue eyes flecked with silver grey. He steps between the Troopers. They keep talking, don't even seem to notice him.
You look like you could use some help. Blaze glances at the troopers. They're still completely unaware of Starke's presence. It's as if Starke and Blaze have somehow stepped a split-second sideways in time. The lights around them continue to dim. The second hand on the wall clock stops. An eerie, dreamlike moment -- the wind, the rain, the tree branches tapping against the window pane.
If I could help her, would you be willing co make a deal?
Blaze looks at the coin -- gleaming, golden, embossed with a soaring eagle on one side, a coyote on the obverse.
What kind of deal?
She lives. You work for me. Something about Starke's eyes. Commanding and haunting at the same time.
What kind of work? Starke just keeps smiling. Lays a comforting hand on Blaze's shoulder as we drift towards Roxanne's beeping EEG.
When I was young, I was told that our souls wander while we sleep. Sometimes they get lost. Sometimes they never make it back --
-- but if they dQ return, they bring messages. And I guess thhat's how the dead speak to us -- in memories that may be dreams, and dreams that feel like memories. Blaze turns off the light.
Just passing through? Nomi nods, uneasy. She glances over her shoulder, searches out her half-breed daughter --
who is sorting intently through a rack of cheap toys. The kid is quiet, soulful, old beyond her years.
Where you headed?
Where are you headed? Late night, storm like this --
What do you care?
 Just asking. He keeps packing. But he knows she's trouble.
I like this. Nomi turns, SEES Rain clutching a toy -- a glow-in-the-dark Halloween skeleton.
It's too much, baby. Put it back. I don't have enough money for that. Rain stares right at Nomi -- and brazenly slips the doll into her coat pocket. Nomi glances at the Clerk. He didn't notice.
Yeah, I found her. Came back to be with her dying grandpappy.
Don't worry. She's got the kid with her. Carrigan watches Nomi and Rain climb into the pickup. The pickup chokes to life, carves out of the lot. Carrigan nods
-- LANDSDALE , a stone-faced criminal, who motions to five other thugs lounging nearby -- FUSCO, ALBRIGHT, CHUDACOFF, LLOYD and ODELL.
 I remember the deal. Just make sure you bring the money. He hangs up, follows his men to a couple of trucks waiting nearby -- a dusty Tundra for Albright, Chudacoff, Odell and Lloyd; an old Bronco for Landsdale, Fusco and Carrigan. Carrigan pulls a Glock from his waistband, chambers a round.
Who wants to be a millionaire? Landsdale smiles back, an awful smile.
Some people are born bad. That's just the way they come into the world. Something goes wrong. Something breaks inside of them -- The trucks pull away, tires ploughing muddy tracks, passing two STRAY DOGS fighting over a bloody road-kill carcass.
-- and they spend the rest of their lives trying to make up for it. CLICK' Blaze Curns on the TV, watches a weather snippet.
PAN OVER Blaze's belongings on the bureau -- a duffle bag, old photographs of his previous life with Roxanne, a collection of blank postcards. Tucked amidst the photos is a sonogram featuring a ghostly image of an unborn child.
-- scattered thunderstorms firing along a stalled frontal boundary. Damaging winds, hail, and isolated tornadoes will be possible across the Dakotas and Upper
Blaze unfolds a tattered map and studies it. The map is crisscrossed with red lines tracing storms from city to city, along with all sorts of arcane, personal notations. Blaze traces his finger down to his present location: DEADFALL.
Seatbelt. Rain dutifully fastens herself in.
Hey, bug. You hungry? Rain shakes her head-
Want to listen to music?  Look, we won't have to keep moving around forever, okay? I'll figure something out. I promise. Rain looks at her mother. She's heard it all before- WHAM! Somebody rams the truck from behind. Rain SCREAMS.
Stay here. And lock the doors. Nomi climbs out into the rain, SLAMS the door. Rain works the locks, but the driver's side is all bent up and twisted --
Back the fuck off! LANDSDALE comes from left of nowhere, twists the gun from her hands in one unexpected move. She spins, SEES Carrigan approaching -- and recognizes him instantly.
Billy-Ray --?
Well, if it isn't Little Miss Running Bear. He grabs her by her hair, shoves the Glock beneath her chin.
Gentlemen, you are looking at one of the finest pieces of ass I have ever had the good fortune of defiling.
Fuck you, Billy --
Now I might just take you up on that, Nome. Old Billy-Ray's been getting a little tired shaking hands with the governor, know what I'm saying?
Careful with her! Rain is dragged kicking and screaming from the cab.
struggling to free herself, desperate to help her child.
Leave her alone! Rain fights like a hellion, rakes her fingernails across Odell's face.
Fuck! SLAP! Landsdale back-hands the little girl. As she reels, he binds her hands with duct tape, then picks her up and throws into the Bronco.
Nomi struggles backwards through rivulets of mud. Carrigan looms over her. All she can do is stare up at him, glassy and unfocused as rain spatters her face.
Tell you what, Hon. You want your goddamned divorce so much? He aims the Glock at her face, about to pull the trigger as --
You can fucking have it! -- a GUT-WRENCHING HOWL cuts through the night, echoing off the canyon walls. Carrigan and his cronies take a beat, staring through sheets of rain. Silence. Just the relentless downpour.
The hell was that? The men glance at each other, nervous. A THUNDER-QUAKE rumbles, so low and gritty it'll rattle your fillings. The men look around, frightened. Rocks fall from the surrounding butte. Odell looks down. The SOUND is deafening, vibra tine: the very earth. And that's when it happens:
What. The. Fuck. Touchdown. A BLAST-WAVE of heat and flame billow outward. The men shield themselves, stumbling backwards. The bike hauls a deep carving turn, peeling mud, slides to a dead stop, hissing in the driving rain. Time stands still. Carrigan and his men gape. The monster cycle throbs.
What the fuck?! WHAT THE FUCK?! Albright FIRES his shotgun. THUNDERING past like an Amtrak train, the Ghost Rider PUNCHES a flaming fist right through Albright'-, face. That's it for the others. They scramble for the trucks. WHOOSH! The Ghost Rider lashes out with his chains, lassos Chudacoff. He SCREAMS as the metal sears his body, falls heavily, burning -- The Ghost Rider skids to a halt, summons something internal and lets it loose -- a blast of PURE HELLFIRE that courses down the chains and engulfs Chudacoff, immolating him. The men make the trucks, pile in. Landsdale slams the Tundra into drive. The big truck hauls away. Carrigan fights to get the Bronco into gear. Rain peeks out from the back, eyes bugging --
as the Ghost Rider dismounts, stalks through the rain towards them. He raising his skeletal hand, clenches it, and suddenly we are --
with Carrigan. His truck won't start. Somehow, the ?host Rider has actin uished the flames within his engine. The Ghost Rider keeps coming, his skeletal claws/fingers white-hot now, throbbing with heat. He slices through the Bronco's door like a human oxy-acetylene torch, chopping the vehicle apart. Carrigan panics, drags Rain out the passenger door. But Fusco is still trapped inside. Can't get his seatbelt off. The Ghost Rider tears open the roof, bisects the vehicle and HURLS the front away, leaving Fusco cowering in the melted back seat. The Ghost Rider looms over Fusco, extending a skeletal claw --
Oh God, please, I ain't nothing to do with nothin'. I ain't nothin'. Please,
tugging Rain away from the horror, trying to ignore Fusco's terrible SCREAMS. He looks back, wishes he hadn't -- The Ghost Rider has Fusco snatched up nose-to-nose, forcing the man to look right into --
shudders, eyes bulging. All he can do is stare into those awful pits, fall into them, as grisly IMAGES from his evil past spark and shred into his melting mind. Every act of violence, every crime he ever committed -- beatings, murders, acts of torture and revenge -- are now revisited upon Fusco tenfold. This is the PENANCE STARE, and Fusco is feeling it's full, hellish force. The Ghost Rider and Fusco SCREAM in sync. Carrigan and Rain can't look away. They stand transfixed -- Then it's over. The Ghost Rider drops Fusco into the mud. He lies there, shuddering, glassy-eyed, burned black but still alive, his brain irrevocably overloaded. And The Ghost Rider is somehow different too. Immobile. Internal. Then he looks up, past Carrigan. R;rht at. Rain. Rain stares back. But it's --
she SEES. An abject abyss of pain and shame and torment. And Rain's terror is forgotten for just that moment, replaced with something best described as empathy.
Did you kill it --?
Fuck if I know!!! Just then, Nomi's pickup backs into view. Odell is driving. Ca___gan snatches Rain up like baggage, starts forward.
dazed, in a muddy gully. She scrambles up to the lip, SEES the burning Tundra nearby, SEES her pickup hauling away into the night. She WAILS, tries to drags herself to her feet -- CREAK. The burning wreckage moves. Moves again. Nomi ducks down, watches, uncomprehending. The crumpled truck is hurled aside. Two tons. Tipped over like a packing crate. Nomi slips down into the gully, gasping with fear. HEAVY FOOTSTEPS and CRACKLING FIRE draw near -- Nomi dares to look up. The Ghost Rider stares down at her. Like Death itself. Imagine yourself face to face with a Great White, an unfathomable, impenetrable force of nature -- Then imagine that force turning away, sparing you. The world exhales. After a moment Nomi dares to look again:
All she sees is a MAN, in tattered clothes, rolling a busted up motorcycle away into the darkness.
stumbling through the crowded ward, head down, in obvious pain. OR. QUINLAN , struggles to keep up, filling out paperwork on the fly.
Sir, you have to tell me your name.
I just need to sit down for a moment. And I need some forceps, gauze, tape --
I'll decide what you need, alright? Name? Blaze hauls a curtain aside, finds an empty surgery bay, prepped and ready to go.
SHOUTING MEDICS tear past, pushing a SCREAMING BURN VICTIM on a gurney. Blaze ducks into the curtained bay. Quinlan follows.
Sir, I can't help you if you don't cooperate.  Are you on something? Drugs? Blaze pulls at his jacket, easing it over his battered body.
No, no. Do I look like troub-unghhh -- He grimaces as the jacket comes off. Bullet wounds, shotgun damage, torn flesh, and a lot of BLOOD.
Motorcycle accident. Couple abrasions, maybe some rib fractures --  Just step back, I'll handle it --
Those are bullet holes. Blaze cleans the wounds she's referring to, grits his teeth as he swabs gauze deep into his flesh.
Nah. They're just -- gouges. Surface damage. They'll heal up fine. Ungh - do you have any -- painkillers?
(assertive now, plainly
This was no motorcycle accident. Somebody has cauterized your wounds Blaze inserts the forceps into a particularly nasty wound.
Percocet? Vicodin, maybe?
Blaze pulls a vicious shard of metal out of his side, stifles a SCREAM, fights to keep it together.
Just. Give. Me. Something. For. The. Pain. He staunches the blood, fixing her with such a stone stare that she involuntarily backs away.
I'm sorry -- but I need to report this. Stay right there. Quinlan backs out through the curtain. Blaze sighs, tapes a thick gauze patch over the wound, eyes hunting. He SEES a drug cabinet, breaks into it. Fills his pockets.
backing into a quiet corner. He suppresses a sob, fumbling a hypodermic as he fills it with stolen morphine. He jabs the spike into his leg, sags as the drug takes effect. After a moment, Blaze calms, gets his bearings, notices that he's leaning against a bulletin board on which is pinned --
sitting on a nearby bed. Beaten, bruised, desolate. A PAIR OF STATE TROOPERS are questioning her. She stares past them, straight at Blaze. She recognizes him.
Ice water floods Blaze's veins. He hurries away.
You were there last night.
Excuse me?
when they took my daughter.
I don't know what you're talking about
Yes you do. Blaze tries to pass off his unease with an ill-conjured smile. He pushes past her, moving to his battered motorcycle. Nomi follows.
The Ghost Rider. It walked right past me. It let me live.  I know what you are. Blaze stares at Nomi, shaken.
Lady, you don't know shit.  Now bark the fuck o t of my Ii Blaze mounts his bike, kicks it alive, leaves Nomi in the dust.
Prairie grasslands roll away on either side of the two lane blacktop. But Blaze's landscape is deep within and dark, dominated by the thunderheads of last night's horror. He notches the throttle up a little, cruises at ninety. Rolls his head back, lets the wind stream over his face. Then he hears ANOTHER MOTORCYCLE. Blaze looks back --
pulls alongside Blaze, riding a monster bike of her own. Blaze burns away. But Nomi's no slouch. She matches his speed and is back beside him moments later. She SHOUTS:
I knew what you were the moment I saw you. I can help you -- jf you're willing to help mp-. I know things.
Like what?
This thing that's riding you, the Ghost Rider. I guess it has a lot of names. But the one I grew up hearing was nagi ocanl sice. It means the Spirit of Vengeance.
You actually believe what you're telling me?
You kidding? I'm pure-bred Dakota. I can hear the mountains talking to each other. And I saw you light up those pricks like Chinese New Year last night. They reach the trailer. Nomi fixes glaze with a stare.
what do you see when you sleep at night? The dead? The faces of the people you've taken?
 Does your grandfather understand English?
He understands. He just refuses to speak it. Laforte continues to ramble intermittently. Blaze shifts, impatient, finally sits forward.
Listen, I don't want to be an ass-hole, but can we just fast-forward the whole Yoda routine? The home team scores! Laforte WHOOPS wildly, loses his mask, COUGHS uncontrollably. Blaze stands. He's out of there.
Feel better, old man.
 Give me the coin. Blaze stops, cocks an eyebrow at Nomi. She shrugs. Blaze hands over the coin. Laforte studies it, starts speaking in Dakota again. Nomi translates:
The man you're looking for goes by lots of names. Coyote, Black Dog. In Dakota, he's Waka Sica. The Trickster. Look at him straight on, you might see a human. Look at him out of the corner of your eye at one of the in-between times -- dusk or dawn, you might see something else.
What does he want?
Wacokico. Vengeance.
Why?
Because it's his nature. Laforte elaborates. Nomi continues to translate.
Long ago, Coyote could change his shape, chop his body into little pieces, causing all sorts of mischief.
But Eagle, he had a clear eye. And he saw Coyote for what he really was. So he swooped down, scattered those pieces to the winds.  The first men, they found the pieces, and not knowing what they were, they ate them. And that's, how all men came to have a little piece of Coyote in their hearts. Now Coyote, he'll promise anything to get those pieces back. There it is. Blaze exhales. He studies Laforte, those ancient, wise eyes.
I've been looking for this man for five years now, storm-chasing --  Tracked him halfway across the country. How do I make him lift the curse?
Ta ocanzeke kin akta a'ikoyake. T'e sniya kel rrrani. Takuni a'ikoyake sni ya'un kte hantana, wocanzeke kin ekignaka yo!
My grandfather says you've been looking in the wrong place. You need to look inward. The Ghost Rider is Starke's weapon. An extension of his rage. But it can't ride people unless it has something to latch onto in the first place. You understand? Blaze nods. He thinks he does. Laforte hands the coin back, returns his attention to the game. But as Blaze starts to rise, Laforte says one final thing:
Wee-cha-sha nee-shee-cha hay? Nomi pauses, deciding how to phrase what the old man said.
What? What'd he say?
He wants to know if you're a bad man. If the Ghost Rider turned its penance stare on you, would you burn?
Why don't you just go to the police?
I did. But I'm red. They said they'll "look into it". Truth is, I've had a few run-ins with them myself.
Your daughter -- why does Starke want her? Nomi takes a beat, looks away. Haunted, ashamed.
Because he's her father. And he wants her back. Billy-Ray and the others, they're being paid to take her to him. Blaze nods. Things are falling into place now.
Look, I believe things happen for a reason. Call it fate, karma, whatever you want -- but there's no way our paths crossing was just blind luck. I need your help, Blaze.
Just so you understand what you're asking, this thing inside me -- I can't control it. It just comes out. And when it does, it's like I'm a prisoner in my own body. There's no reasoning with it. It doesn't have a conscience. It doesn't even have a personality. It's just a --
You're looking for Starke. I'm looking for my kid. We find one, we'll find the other.
And then --?
Is she comfortable? Are you feeding her properly?
Does she know where you're taking her?
I think she's figured it out.
And how does she feel about that?
How the hell should I know?
I'm not a psychologist. She's a fucking freak, alright? Always has been. Sooner I get her out of my sight, the better.
approaches the phone booth situated beside the rental office. Inside the booth, the man is half-seen.
She's the most important thing in your life, Carrigan. Make sure she arrives safely.
Same sky-blue eyes flecked with metal. Starke and Coyote stare at each other, indifferent to the storm raging around them- He starts towards the rental office.
-- experiencing extraordinary conditions. Tornadoes blanketing much of East Texas, with reports of extensive damage and gusts of up to seventy miles per hour -- As Pecrowsky turns off the TV, we hear the door CHIME. Starke enters, bringing a strong gust of wind with him.
Sorry, guy, I'm just closing up. Starke looks to a clock on the wall -- it's 4:55.
According to the hours posted outside, you're still open.
I would like to rent a car --  -- "Jim" . Something in Starke's tone gives Petrowsky pause. He glances to the window and the growing storm beyond. We SEE the coyote out there, watching from across the way.
Now, Mr. --?
Starke. First name, Ambrose.
 Starke, okay. What kind of car were you looking for? Starke picks up a laminated placard featuring various cars.
What about the Cadillac Deville? I noticed you had one in your lot outside.
Sorry, already spoken for. How `bout a full-size car? I can give you a Chevy Malibu, Ford Taurus -- Starke deliberates. Outside, the storm seems to grow stronger. Petrowsky shifts in his seat, trying to mask his impatience. Were he observant enough, he might also notice that the wall clock has stopped.
You want the Taurus? Give you a good deal, mid-size price. $37.99 a day, can't beat that.
I had my heart set on the Cadillac, Jim.
The Taurus, then.
Great. Can I see a driver's license? Starke reaches into his jacket, handing over a license. Petrowsky types in the required information, trying to ignore the vague feeling of uneasiness settling over him.
How many days do you need it for?
Two, three --
Any other drivers?
No.
And you'll be paying by --?
Cash.
I'll need a three hundred dollar deposit. Starke nods, removing a money clip from his jacket, deftly sliding out three crisp, brand-new hundred dollar bills.
What about refueling?  We've got three options. You can purchase a full tank in advance, you can fill it up yourself before you return it, or you can have us do it, but then we have to charge you four dollars a gallon. Most people go for the tank in advance. Less hassle.
I'll do it myself.
Okey-dokey. Petrowsky enters the final data, hits "PRINT". As the rental agreement begins feeding out, we hear a HORN FiONK. Starke turns. A mini-van has pulled up outside. A MOUSY WOMAN sits behind the wheel. A BOY sits in the back seat. The coyote is still there, but it pays no attention to them.
Mrs. Petrowsky?
Yeah. Petrowsky slides the agreement to Starke, takes out a pen:
Here you go. Just your standard rental agreement. You get up to 150 miles a day for free, twenty cents a mile after that. If you want additional personal accident insurance it's five dollars a day, another nine-ninety-nine if you want the loss/damage waiver. Your basic rental rate, plus applicable state and local tax. You just need to initial here, here, and here --  -- and give me your John Hancock on the line right here. Petrowsky offers Starke a pen. He doesn't take it. Instead, he pulls out a pair of bifocals. With agonizing slowness, Starke begins to peruse the rental agreement.
Is there a o oblem --?
The price you quoted was $37,99, the mid- size rate. But you've listed the daily rate here as $62.99.
I did? Starke turns the agreement around for Petrowsky to see.
Geez, I'm sorry, you're absolutely right. That's the Caddy rate. Guess I entered it in by mistake -- Starke looks up at Petrowsky over the rim of his bifocals, the timbre of his voice taking on a decidedly frigid turn.
Were you trying to cheat me, Jim?
No, no, not at all --
Then I'd like a new contract specifying the appropriate rate. Petrowsky squirms, uncomfortable. For in that pregnant moment, without either participant uttering at word, the entire nature of the transaction seems to have changed.
Look, can't we just go with the contract we've got here? I'll make a note of it and knock a day's rental off the total when you return it. What do you say?
I say the Devil's in the details.
 Jesus -- Jesus --
There've been times in my life when the world seemed so hateful and vindictive that I just wanted to die -- Helen Petrowsky bolts from the mini-van. The boy watches as his mother rushes to her husband's side.
Jim?! Jim, what happened?! Petrowsky clutches at his wife's arm, trying to speak. A shard of glass has penetrated his larynx.
-- H-helen -- get -- a--away -- Petrowsky's eyes widen in horror. Helen follows his gaze
Certain twists of that fate felt like nothing more than God's spite.
strides towards them, his face a veil of unmerciful contempt. The dust storm has taken on Biblical proportions, whipping and roiling around him, becoming an extension of his fury. He snatches Helen up by the throat, snapping her neck with inhuman strength, flings her lifeless body to the ground -- then he brings his boot heel down on Petrowsky'shead. crushing it like an _aashell.
It was obvious to me that I'd done something wrong. Broken some secret rule known only to Him. And as such, would be punished for my sins -- Starke turns now, regarding the mini-van. The boy is nowhere in sight. He approaches, looks inside. The boy has fled.
Looking right, then left. No sign of Starke. The Boy shudders, truing to stifle his sniveling. Then -- 
But I had it all wrong. And I see that now, with such clarity I sometimes feel my heart will break --
appears, creeping along a parallel aisle. It pauses, lowering its snout, peering at the boy from afar. The Boy freezes. FOOTSTEPS approaching. He squirms around for a better view --
We SEE Starke's boot heels a few dozen yards away, gradually closing in on the car beneath which the Boy hides. The Boy shuts his eyes. The FOOTSTEPS draw closer, then stop. The Boy opens his eyes. Starke's hoots are just an arm's length away.
There's a world out there that's neither right nor wrong. Neither kind nor cruel. Fair or unfair. It simply is.. Existing in all it's bliss and pain.
slips under the body of the car.Butit's not a human hand. It's the hand of a beast -- blackandtwisted, taloned. With a sudden movement, the hand flipsthecar up, sending the enter vehicle spiraling into theair.The Boy lies there, exposed like a bug beneath an upturned rock. He looks up --
And what seems like cruel fate is really only Nature, red in tooth and claw.
Want some food, kid? Rain doesn't respond. Odell rustles the bag.
C'mon. Eat a chip or something.
She's not gonna eat, Odell. Just shut up and get some sleep.
I can't sleep. Every time I close my eyes, I see the face of that thing, Lloyd
 -- Christ.
Just put it out of your head.
If I could put it out of my head, I wouldn't be awake now, would I? Landsdale stirs. Carrigan gestures at the barren landscape.
Look out there, what do you see?
Dick.
That's right. Miles and miles of nothing. And there's a lot of weird shit running around in that nothing. How many people you know seen a UFO, huh? Ten? Twenty? Hell, it's on every goddamn paper at the supermarket. You believe that shit, the whole country's being overrun by those bug-eyed motherfuckers.
 Probe you in the ass, they get the chance.
What's your point, Mr. Serling?
My point is; everybody's seen somethina. Ghosts, aliens, Bigfoot, whatever --
This wasn't no freaking Bigfoot! You see what it did to Albright? Punched his head clean off!
Look, I don't know what that thing was. All I know is, Starke's paying us a butt- load of money to deliver the kid to him. We were told we'd see things and we were told to look the other way. You want to cut out? I'll pull over right here.
Keep your shirt on, B. We didn't come this far just to limp home with nothing. Right, Odell? Odell settles back into his seat, uneasy.
I guess. But I'd still like to know what that thing was.
He's the Ghost Rider. Everybody looks at her. It's the first thing she's said.
It should. He's going to kill you all.
That's what I'm talking about! Fucking Chatty Cathy sitting back here with me! Carrigan glances in the rear-view mirror, makes eye-contact with Rain, does his level-best not to be spooked.
I don't like this. I spent the last six years trying to forget this place.
You got any idea where Billy-Ray might be headed?
Then we should start with where he's been.
Your husband used to work here?
Billy-Ray dealt blackjack, poker. Worked the casino circuit. We met in Vegas. Things kind of went downhill after that.
Got a lot of nerve showing your face here again.
They turn. Chief of Security, VINCE RODENBURG (30s, full--or- himself), storms towards them, flanked by TWO SECURITY GOONS.
Believe me, Vince, this is the last place I want to be. But we need to find Billy- Ray. He took Rain.
Sorry' The Deal Man hasn't been back in weeks.  You have a nice day now.
But you must've talked to him. Do you know where he's headed? Just tell me that.
What am I? His babysitter? I don't know where he is, Nome, and if I did, I sure as hell wouldn't be telling you.  Show these two ass-holes to the door.
Look, this is important. We're talking about a kidnapping.
 We are? And who is ?
I'm just a friend.
Ri h t. Nomi tell you what a blue ribbon slut she was? Do anything to support that needle habit of hers. Truth, 'bout the only person that hasn't had her around here is me. Blaze steps forward now, angry, threatening.
That's enough.
What, you gonna get all Steven Segal on me, tough guy? Pull a fucking Glimmer Man?
Blaze moves, twists Rodenburg's arm like rope, wrenches his thumb backwards, SLAMS Rodenburg face-first into one of those Plexiglas booths where people dive for dollars. The goons pull their pieces. Blaze just ups the pain.
-w-w--wait!! !  --oh, fuck, just wait a second -- The goons hesitate. CUSTOMERS stare. Blaze seethes.
I need you to understand something, Vince. I am, by nature, an inherently violent man and there's not much in the way of bad that I haven't already inflicted on this miserable world --  So unless the idea of learning to drive a wheelchair with your mouth sounds appealing, I suggest you apologize to my friend and tell us WHERE THE FUCK BILLY-
I don't know! I don't know -- Blaze gives Rodenburg's thumb a savage twist.
Arrrghh! H-he was -- ngh -- up at their old house, last night!
And?
And I'm sorry -- I'm fucking sorry! Blaze releases him. As the goons close in, Blaze deftly relieving Goon #1 of his handgun and turns it back on him.
Think about it. The goons relent. Blaze and Nomi exit, leaving Rodenburg slumped on the floor, cradling his mangled hand.
Never thought I'd be back here. They pass cautiously through the front yard. Nomi's pickup is parked nearby. The front door bangs back and forth. Nomi pulls a revolver from her waist-band.
I think they're gone. Off Nomi's look, Blaze points at tire tracks in the dirt.
Dual tracks. Looks like your old man switched to a Hummer.
Guess the boys camped out for a while.
Listen, those things Vince said --
You don't have to explain yourself to me.
Some of them are true.
Doesn't make you a bad person.
Nomi nods, but she's clearly agitated. Blaze crouches, traces his fingers over a stain on the wall. He can FEEL something. He shuts his eyes, opens them --
The room, many years earlier. Carrigan backhands Nomi across the face. The silent moment is caught in motion so slow it's virtually a tableau.
He used to hit you. A statement, not a question. She nods.
You can see the past?
Just echoes, sometimes.
I was dying. I'd shot myself full of Billy's best gear. Figured I'd teach him a lesson and go out in style. Blaze nods, but he doesn't see Nomi now. He SEES --
-- Nomi as she waS. An inch away from eternity. She is lying on the bed, staring upwards, shallow breaths- Above her, a MOTH flutters by a light, casting distorted shadows.
But it felt like a mistake.
The lights begin to dim. We hear FOOTSTEPS approaching, muted and distorted, A SHADOW falls across Nomi --
stands above her. There are OTHER SHADOWS drifting in behind him. Things better left half-glimpsed. Coyotes. Beasts.
He smiled and said -- As Starke starts to speak, we hear:
"You look like --
-- you could use some help." Nomi nods, hugs herself.
And I took it. What else was I going to do? I don't know what happened after that. I'm not sure I ever want to --  All I know is, nine months later, Rain was born.
Silent, disjointed. The moth. Nomi's face, terror-stricken. Starke, eyes alight with malice and mischief.
Billy-Ray hated her from the moment she was born. He knew she wasn't his, knew she was different --  If I didn't leave he would've killed us both.
Nomi striking back at Billy-Ray with a broken bottle. Setting the house ablaze.
Been running ever since. In my heart, I guess I knew Starke would be coming for her one day.
Why send Billy-Ray after you?
Sick irony, I guess. Billy certainly knew all my haunts --  This was a mistake, Blaze. We're not going to find anything here. Blaze glances down -- a HEAT HAZE has engulfed his hand. He clenches his fist, looks up --
Guess again. -- as HEADLIGHTS shine through one of the windows. Somebody's driving up to the house.
What're you --?
Talked-to Billy-Ray, chief. Don't know who you a r - e, but you picked the wrong -- Blaze struggles to contain the Ghost Rider, but his whole body is drenched in sweat now -- like he's going to spontaneously combust at any moment.
Please. Just tell us where they went and leave. There's no reason why you have to die. Rodenburg LAUGHS, looks at his friends in disbelief.
I'm gonna die? Me? Buddy, you got your head screwed on bass-ackwards! Rodenburg FIRES into Blaze's chest -- once, twice. Blaze stumbles back against the porch. As he falls, Rodenburg mounts the steps, charging in after Nomi.
Had to come back here, didn't you, Nomi? Just couldn't leave well enough alone. Nomi struggles to sit up. Rodenburg LAUGHS viciously, forces her back, drags at her jeans.
sits up. He looks to Doyle, TEARS OF FIRE streaming from his eyes. As he stands, his chest wounds ignites, the flames instantly cauterizing the flesh. He's suddenly engulfed in a heat haze. Wood smolders all around him. Doyle backs away, terrified. He FIRES his gun again and again, but the bullets just punch through Blaze, creating more flaming holes-
I'm sorry. soul, the fire expanding, engulfing Doyle.
Flaming leaves burn and twirl at the far end. Firelight flickers. The SCREAMS still come, sporadic and terrible. Rodenburg's mind is racing. He motions to Pennebaker, who drags Nomi off the bed and strong-arms her to the door.
Doyle? Smoke and CRACKLING NOISES are building rapidly. The SHRIEKS persist, and those burning leaves are everywhere. Then -- --- movement in the living room! Rodenburg draws a bead but it's Weingrod, pushing through the plastic sheeting, fearful, eyes darting. He speaks in a strained whisper.
What's going on, man? Where's Oswalt? GUNFIRE! Outside! CRASH! Something hits the house. Then more SCREAMS, more GUNFIRE, and a RUMBLE so deep it's deadly. Pennebaker panics, pushing past Rodenburg.
I want out of here, I'm getting out!
Keep your fucking voices down!
He's burning the house, man! He's
RED-HOT CHAINS whip viciously around Weingrod's head and torso. Then he's wrenched backwards, hauled straight through the plastic sheeting --
Half man, half monster, his pitiless skull-face hazing and flickering between human and inhuman states.
Where are they taking the girl? Rodenburg whimpers. Ghost Blaze grabs Rodenburg's hair, wrenches his head back.
Where. Are_ They. Taking. Her?
Where?
I don't know exactly, Jesus, I don't know!
Blue-white fire floods down Blaze's arm and engulfs Rodenburg. The poor man screams, struggles to break free -- aze simply crrows Otte ana ac and the Ghost Rider's evil countenance submerges every trace of Blaze's humanity. Then it's over. The flames evaporate. Rodenburg's corpse crumbles to dust. Wind HOWLS. The Ghost Rider is gone.
He SEES the corpses, the burning vehicles, tries to deny the horror. But it's always the same -- another swath of destruction left in his wake, another righteous atrocity.
He told you everything he knew. She's ten yards away, shaking. Not going to come any closer.
Told you everything --
You asked for my help. I warned you what you were getting into. More a statement than an excuse. There are POLICE SIRENS on the wind. Blaze starts walking towards the pickup.
I don't -- I don't know what else to do for you --
S'okay -- just need to rest now --
I thought you were dead.
 I don't even know if it's that's an option anymore. Every time I get close, I feel myself being dragged back --  --it's like being born all over again. Like every law in the universe is being broken. Blaze sits forward, gritting his teeth against the pain.
See, the Ghost Rider -- it's drawn to darkness like a bloodhound. If it thinks you've sinned, it'll find you.
What if you're innocent?
Nobody's innocent.  Think about it. Everyone's done somethincr. You. Me -- Blaze lifts up the coyote coin, flipping it over his fingers.
Every night I spin this fucking coin -- and it always lands the same side up. I keep thinking -- ona time, one time I'm going to spin it and I'll see the other face. Sleep through the night without getting blood on my hands. But it never happens.
Blaze flings the coin away in disgust. It spins, wobbles, lands coyote side up. He laughs tiredly, then looks away, lost, suddenly overcome with emotion.
I'm just so fucking tired -- Nomi moves to his side, struggles to help him up.
Here, why don't you lie down for a little while? Blaze nods, too tired to argue. Nomi half carries him to the bed, lowers him down. Blaze settles back, exhausted. Nomi watches him, holding vigil. His eyes grow heavy. He shuts them a moment, opens them again --
-- and it's Roxanne who is laying beside him now. She rolls over to face him, smiles sleepily. Blaze reaches for her, touches her face -- and the moment shatters into violence.
WHAM! Blaze bolts up in bed, disoriented, shaken. Clearly, some time has passed. Nomi sits across the room now, holding Blaze's tattered photographs in her hands, looking a little guilty. She's got the paper wedding band which Blaze made for Roxanne too.'
What are you doing?
I'm sorry, I just --
As Blaze stands, we SEE that his wounds have healed.-He shrugs on a shirt, approaches. Nomi nods to the paper wedding band.
You must've loved her a lot. Blaze doesn't answer. Just takes the photos and wedding band from her, shoves them back in his pack. He pulls out one of the postcards, scribbles an address on it.
What time is it?
A little after three.
What time, exactly?
3:27. Why? Blaze ignores her, jots down the time. Licks a stamp and puts it on the postcard. Leaves it on the dresser.
What is it with you and those postcards, anyway?
They're just a kind of record.  Let's go.
Roxanne in the hospital, serene and beautiful. Starke handing Blaze the coin.
You made a deal. Blaze nods.
So what happened? Did she live?
Roxanne? Yeah, she's alive. She just doesn't know it.  Coma. Probably never wake up.
So he tricked you.
 That's what he does, doesn't he? She nods. That's what he does.
 What about the baby? Blaze just shakes his head.
It's funny. That kid was supposed to be my second chance. Rox and I used to talk about it -- how things'd be different after she was born. Nomi didn't expect his honest vulnerability.
Maybe that's why we have them
What, kids?
Can I ask you something? Honestly?  What're you going to do when you find Starke?
Make him pay, somehow --
I'm sure you'll figure something out.
Yeah? Based on his facial expressions, the news isn't good. He sighs, disconnects the call. Landsdale cocks an eyebrow.
Rodenburg's dead. Oswalt, Weingrod, all those other inbred losers too.  Looks like my ex-bitch has hooked up with the fire guy -- In the rear-view mirror, Odell's eyes grow wide.
No fucking way -- Carrigan ponders, nods to Landsdale.
We're going to need reinforcements, some kind of escort to the meet.
I know a guy. Got some boys given over to wickedness and such.
 Make the call.
He'll find me, you know. Her voice makes Odell jump. He thought she was asleep
EMPTY_LINE
 Hey, kiddo, you're worrying my boy here. So shut your goddamn mouth --
You can't tell me what to do. You're not my father. Wow. The truck collectively holds its breath. Carrigan settles back, but he's pissed.
You better believe that, sweetheart. I'm just the dumb-ass that financed your whole fucking life. You and your mother both. And what did I get for that selfless act of stupidity? She burned down the house and gave me something to remember her by. He's referring to the scar under his eye. Rain turns away. Huddles against the door.
Believe me, I could care less what Starke wants with you. Make you into a fucking hood ornament if he wants to. It's not like you came springing out of my loins. Only thing I care about now is getting what's mine, and that's --
 -- payment and retribution, got it? She's not listening. Her bound hands are secretly pushed down into the tight gap between the seat and the door.
are fluttering. Extreme concentration.
levitates, tilts into her outstretched hands. The RADIO squeals painfully, pure strident STATIC. Odell punches a new station, but the STATIC continues, grows -- Rain ATTACKS, stabbing the pen into Odell's thigh. He SCREAMS, slams the brakes, loses control of the truck --
weaving between the stalks. She reaches an old farm implement, uses one of the rusting blades to saw through her taped bindings. Then she's up again, running --
Carrigan falls, dropping the gun. He searches for it, desperate. Then he SEES it. But as he reaches for it -- -- Rain extends her hand, concentrating, eyes fluttering -- WHOOSH! The gun spins away from Carrigan, into Rain's hands. She doesn't hesitate for a second -BLAM!- First shot wings Carrigan, knocks Rain on her ass. Carrigan DIVES for cover.. She FIRES wildly --CLICK-CLICK-CLICK-- but then the gun is spent and -- -- Landsdale emerges through the corn, bagging Rain with his coat. As a shaken Carrigan gets to his feet, Landsdale slips his belt out of his pants and binds Rain tightly.
Man, she shot you?  Jesus. Lucky she didn't perforate my ballsack with that fucking pen.
Mounts are cracked, trans-axle's shot to
 -- this baby ain't goin' nowhere.
Fuck. Ma. Carrigan fumes, glances at Rain -- then he just snaps, starts angrily kicking at the door. After a few futile moments, he stops, paces, looks to Landsdale.
We're going to need a place where we can hole up `til tomorrow. Wait for those boys of yours.
How `bout up there? Landsdale points past Carrigan at a squat group of buildings and machinery -- a shut-down ROCK QUARRY in the distance.
 Where the fuck are those men of yours?
Don't worry. They're on their way. Carrigan nods, cuts his cards. He j worried.
Nomi shines a flashlight, SEES blood on the front seat. She GASPS. Blaze reaches past her, touches the blood stain --
She's alive.
How do you know ---? But Blaze isn't listening. His gaze is now fixated on the distant lights of the rock quarry.
We can see the main compound of the quarry from here. Landsdale is in view, having a smoke by the guardhouse.
You think she's in there? Blaze nods.
Then let's go -- Nomi starts forward, but Blaze pulls her back.
No. We'll wait.
 You wait. I'm heading in.
Look, they're not going anywhere.
You don't know that. This is probably the best chance we'll get. They're sitting ducks. We can do this if you --
If I what? Burn them alive? Eat their spirits?
You still get it, do you? The Ghost Rider whales on whoever's got it coming, but it's Johnny Blaze that gets to remember their faces. And I Lb remember them. Every last one. Just then, we hear the RUMBLE of approaching MOTORCYCLES. Lots of them. Blaze turns, SEES a line of BIKERS chugging up the service road on ratted-out Harleys.
They know we're coming, don't they? Blaze nods. Once again, Fate is royally fucking him.
I'm going in. You with me or not?
Brotherman.
Arlo.
I'll find her. You stay here. Nomi moves to protest, but Blaze silences her.
If things go South and the Ghost Rider takes over, I can't guarantee he won't --
I know. I'm on my own.  , Just bring her back to me. That's all I care about.
 Whatever happens --
You're welcome. Blaze leaves. Nomi starts in on the other bikes.
So you need some contract work?
An escort. We're making a delivery first thing tomorrow morning.
And will there be mayhem involved?
Yeah, I'd say a certain amount of hijinx are likely to ensue.
Well, I'll tell you, I got nineteen brothers out there willing to go the distance and enough firepower to give a small Balkan nation a fucking titty- twister. But we don't come cheap. So how many men we going up against?
One.
One man?
One man.
You trying to diddle my nutpurse, Mister?
Absolutely not. Lemme clarify things --
See, this guy's not really a "guy". He's more like a demon or something.
A demon?
That's right.
What, exactly, do you mean by demon? Blaze winces, lifting a hand before his face -- BLUE FLAMES dance over his fingertips. He leans against the wall for support. When he removes his hand, he leaves a singed palm- print on the drywall.
Like his head's on fire and shit. Arlo LAUGHS, the Pulsifers follow suit. Then Arlo turns to Landsdale, icy now.
Brotherman, what in fuck's name is this smooth faggot talking about?
The room, the men -- but no Rain.
He's telling the truth, Arlo. The guy ain't human. Saw him torch Albright and Chudacoff with my own eyes.
Well, I say bring him on. You see this ink? That's a hundred hours under the needle. A motherfucking canvas of pain. He and Chester here, we're not afraid of fuck-diddly!
hidden in a dark alcove, struggling to contain himself. If the Gargoyle turns he will surely see him. The Gargoyle studies the flame, then notices an OPEN WINDOW nearby. He shuts it, lights his cigarette, turns back -- b= Blaze has moved on.
If this guy's as lethal as you say he is, I want fifty for me, another fifty for the club. Only you can't let the boys know we're takin' a 50K rake off the top, see?
How `bout sixty and I'll throw in a kilo of coke?
Ninety, and not a nickel less, you fucking pillow-biter.
E a sy, gentlemen. No need to get all truculent on me.
Truculent? You get that out of a Scrabble dictionary or something? What the fuck does "truculent" mean?  I'll tell you what it means. It means
Okay, alright -- how about seventy-five and we'll smoke the old peace pipe?
 How `bout eighty or you're gonna be smoking my dick?
Shit.
What is that?
 Smells like somethin's burning.
What-is this, fucking charades?! It's h,jM, you- ass-holes !
appear from every direction. Guns BLAZE. Bullets turn-to slag, vaporizing as they enter the Ghost Rider's aura of hellfire. Rain drops from the Ghost Rider's arm, runs. The Ghost Rider advances. The Gargoyle nearest him empties a machine pistol into the Ghost Rider. The Ghost Rider reaches for the weapon. At his touch, the pistol becomes RED HOT -- The Gargoyle CRIES OUT. The Ghost Rider takes the pistol, and FIRES BACK. The Gargoyles stumble, clawing at their smoking wounds. In seconds, the entire weapon turns WHITE HOT, melting apart in the demon's hand, SIZZLING away into nothing -- The Ghost Rider keeps coming. Men are SMASHED aside, incinerated. Bravado turns to terror, to chaotic scramble --
CRASH! Nomi's pickup barrels through the fence. She slaloms through a gauntlet of flames, skidding to a halt. She SEES Rain running towards her, throws open the passenger door --
Rain makes for the pickup, scrambles inside even as --
 Forget it, bro, live to fight another day. The Ghost Rider slams his skeletal hand on the tank of a nearby bike. The bike glows RED HOT and CHANGES SHAPE, getting bigger, nastier, demonically slouched --
No fucking way! That's my hog! As the Ghost Rider mounts the newly transformed hellcycle, Gunt charges forward, infuriated. He OPENS FIRE with his mini-un, .er. rounds a second.
Moving with uncanny speed, the Ghost Rider grips Gunt by the throat and hauls him off his feet, unleashing the full fury of his Penance Stare.
Gunt!
images from his own subjective hell assault him. Tears stream down his cheeks as his body ignites. His corneas are burning, melting. The Ghost Rider starts to accelerate now, from zero to sixty in an eye-blink, hauling Gunt's writhing body along with him - straight into the burning building.
rushing into another room, SLAMMING a steel door behind.
What about the Ghost Rider? We have to go back for him!
Are you crazy?! Sit down! Then Nomi glances in the rearview mirror. Oh. My. God.
The Ghost Rider's skeletal fingers clamp Nomi's shoulder. She HOWLS in pain, her clothing beginning to smoke. Rain tries to help, imploring --
No, no, no --
The bad guys coming on battered bikes -- Arlo, Chester, plus FOUR OTHER GARGOYLES. And bringing up the rear, a seven ton Mack dumper driven by Carrigan. Landsdale rides shotgun. Blaze looks to Nomi, SHOUTS over the wind:
Give me your gun! Nomi passes it back. The Gargoyles OPEN FIRE. Bullets zing and whine. Blaze shoves Gunt's cycle off the pickup bed The heavy wreck CRASHES and bounces, wasting the first Gargoyle. The others swerve around the sliding debris
hauling the Mack alongside Chester --
 The hell you doing? I need the kid alive!!!
Fuck the kid and FUCK YOU!!! Chester aims the launcher again. Carrigan swerves, CRUSHES Chester under the Mack's mighty wheels.
The pickup mows down barricades like dominoes, clips a hot tar cooker, spins spumes of molten tar in all directions. HIGHWAY WORKERS run for their lives. Nomi SMASHES through barricades, leaps a pile of rough gravel. Blaze is nearly hurled out the bed, but hangs on, shoulder screaming --
is a concrete divider. Nomi abruptly veers right, clipping Arlo against the divider, killing him instantly.
hauling himself back into the pickup bed even as --
bears down on them. Landsdale jumps from the cab, landing alongside Blaze. The two men struggle in the cargo bed, hand to hand, exchanging a volley of vicious blows. Nomi is desperate, doesn't know what to do. Landsdalp is getting the upper hand. He grips Blaze by the throat, forcing him over the side of the pickup bed, shoving Blaze's head towards the churning wheels of the Mack --
 Do something!!!
concentrating, focusing all her energy on Landsdale. She CRIES OUT, makes a forceful hand gesture -- -- and Landsdale's glasses SHATTER. He SCREAMS, blood pouring from his eyes. Blaze rolls, throws Landsdale over his shoulder -- into the wheels of the Mack.
Hold on to something! She brakes. The pickup fishtails. Carrigan also brakes, struggling to keep the Mack under control. Then the Mack catches a rim, flips, rolls --
The rolling Mack plows into the roadblock, seven tons of iron crushing cruisers and barricades alike. The pickup careens off the road, plunges into a cornfield, hits a rut, grinds to a halt --
being surrounded by Troopers, wrestled to the ground.
chained, cuffed, struggling with TWO DEPUTIES trying to drag him to a cell. Further up, Carrigan is being similarly escorted. Blaze looks to the faces of his fellow prisoners, dread seizing his body.
I have to talk to the warden. You have to put me someplace else --
Should've thought of that before you pulled that "Dukes of Hazzard" stunt.
Please, just listen to me. Put me in solitary, anywhere but here.
This isn't a fucking hotel, chief.
You don't understand, people will die -- WHACK! A baton blow to the knee. Blaze CRIES OUT, staggers --
Easy on the threats, big guy -- 
The cell door opens. Blaze struggles even more violently now.
Do not put me in here! Do not leave me with these men! They'll die if you do this!! ! The deputies force Blaze inside, using batons, boots. A stun gun SPARKS. Blaze falls. The cell door SLAMS. The inmates opposite are LAUGHING, waving, bashing their bars with every metal implement they've got as we --
Are we safe now? Nomi regards her sadly. She's never been one to tell lies.
Honey, I don't know if we'll ever be safe. Rain nods, knew the answer instinctively. Something about her look -- far too fatalistic for a child her age.
He talks to me sometimes.
Who?
My father --  -- when I'm dreaming.
I don't want to be like him, mom.
You won't.
Yes, I do, baby -- Nomi hugs her, desperate, as if the world were ending. Outside, across the land, the sun shines gloriously bright.
-- yes I do.
fluttering by an outdoor light, casting distorted shadows on the stucco wall. Nomi stares, uneasy, something tugging at- her memory as we SEE --
My father used to say that the only way evil came into your life --
was if you invited it.
Mom --?!
Sweety, you have to get out of here now.
as she drags Rain into the bathroom. She tears the shower curtain back. There's a window just above the shower stall barely big enough for someone like Rain to squeeze through.
I'm not sure about that. At least not anymore. What I CQ know is this:
We hear FOOTSTEPS in the walkway outside. SOMEONE is coming-___" Nomi tugs open the window, lifts Rain towards it --
Honey, go, GO! ?
We are born alone and we die alone.
terrified, backing into the far corner of his cell.
It's what happens in-between that matters.
-- the choices we make, the people whose paths we cross -- She stands, casts a fearful look to at Nomi, then runs off into the stormy night.
backing out of the bathroom as the front door EXPLODES OPEN. She turns around --
-- these are the things that determine our fate.
stands in the doorway, coyotes slouching in around his heels. The beasts attack, growing and changing, their gnashing mouths of razored teeth opening wide to consume Nomi as --
spread out below, FIREBALLS engulfing a distant building --
The Ghost Rider waves his hand. The bars separating them melt, flowing to the floor like liquid. He stares down at Carrigan, his hollow eve sockets sparking to life.
are coming. We've seen them before. These boots belong to --
navigating his way through the bedlam. He passes between rushing emergency personnel, steps over a writhing VICTIM -- -- but no one seems to notice his presence. And as he progresses to the far end of the cell block, the cacophony fades, leaving only his FOOTSTEPS as he turns into --
Carrigan is terribly burned, but still clinging to life. Frantic paramedics are running an IV, struggling to stabilize him. His fear-filled eyes grow dim, then abruptly snap into focus as he SEES --
You look like you could use some help.
-- Starke standing over him, his gaze stoic and pitiless.
You lost her, Carrigan. What happened?
 -- you didn't tell us -- what he was Carrigan starts to slip away. The SOUNDS of the outside world begin to intrude once more. Starke kneels, touching a hand to Carrigan's chest. The world ebbs away again. The paramedics continue their work, oblivious. Carrigan MOANS.
-- please, I don't want to die -- Starke's arctic eyes gleam bright with mischief.
If I could save you, would you be willing to make a deal?
assault him -- good times with Roxanne, happy times, making the onrush that much more unbearable. We INTERCUT --
radiant at the beach. Flickering sunshine makes her squint.
folding clothes, seen through a sunny doorway.
Her laughing face, loving Blaze from across a dinner table.
and Blaze at the obstetrician's. On the sonogram monitor, w e SEE unborn child shifting positions within Roxanne's womb, PUSH IN on the eerily beautiful image and --
stands behind him, waif-like. Big, melancholy eyes. They stare at each other for a long time, not knowing what to say.
My mother is dead. The statement hangs. Another death. Another failure of Blaze's part.
How--?
My father found us, just like she knew he would. Rain looks down at Blaze's hand -- the gun resting there. Blaze meets her gaze and tucks the gun away, embarrassed. The wind picks up. Rain looks to the graves.
What do you think happens when you die? Do you think there's a heaven?
I don't know.
Yeah, I think there's something. Maybe not angels playing harps and stuff, but
He'll keep coming, you know. Unless you stop him.
But you'll try, right? Blaze regards her curiously. Even in grief, she's a consummate negotiator.
I don't have anything left to give, kid. Blaze stands, starts walking. Rain follows.
My mother said you were a good man.
I'm not.
She said I could trust you.
You can't.
I don't believe in fate.
Maybe it believes in you. Blaze stops. Cold. Deja-vu all over again. He looks back at Rain. Sighs.
We're going to a church?
It's not a church. It's a mission. They take people in. Blaze pays the driver. The truck roars away. Rain looks back to the mission, doubtful.
Are you going to dump me there?
Can I help you?
Our car broke down a few miles back and my daughter and I were wondering if we could crash here for the night. Tolbein sizes them up -- doesn't like what he sees.
Don't think so.
What about a ride, then? Is there a town somewhere you could take us to? Other men have gathered behind Tolbein -- VISCOTT, WILSON. One of them, NUNEZ, nods to the South.
Why don't you head back to Dawson? They got motels there.
That's not really an option.
Then I'd say you're out of luck.
Look, you must have a cot, something. The kid's hungry --
I'm sure we can figure something out. JOE RHYMER, 50s, approaches, silences Tolbein with a look. He's down to earth, capable, wearing a black shirt, cleric's collar, oily jeans, and muddy work boots.
 Joe Rhymer. I'm the Padre.
This is Rain.
Rain? That's a pretty name.
Bottom line, Father. There's something wrong with those two. Especially the kid.
Duly noted, Richard.
Those men outside --
Most of them are on a work-release program. We're a halfway house for ex- offenders. We try to get people on their feet, reintegrate them into society. Blaze glances at Rain, apprehensive.
 Don't worry, you're perfectly safe here. But of course, that's not what Blaze is thinking.
Blaze watches from a distance, cleaned up, clothes laundered-- Rhymer approaches, gestures to the garden.
It's turned out beautiful, hasn't it? We try to be as self sufficient as we can, back to the earth and all that. He notices that Blaze is staring at the lowering sun.
You any good with diesel engines?
I know my way around a flywheel housing.
Well I've got a generator out back that's been on life support the last few weeks. Mind helping me try to resuscitate it? Blaze looks at him curiously.
Sure.
So how long have you been running?
What do you mean?
You know what I mean. You spend as much time around lost souls as I have, you learn how to read a man's face.
Take the girl, for instance. She's not your daughter, is she?
No.
So what happened to her mother?
She's dead.
Did you kill her?
No. Rhymer studies Blaze, decides he believes him.
And who's protecting you?
Blaze and Rhymer are cleaning up.
Listen, I appreciate what you're trying to do, but I've never really been a come to Jesus kind of guy.
I wasn't talking about Jesus, I was talking about a little healthy introspection. Working here, staying in one place for a while, seeing what surfaces. I've found that people tend to arrive on our doorstep for a reason. Blaze considers this formidable man, a yearning moment then he shakes his head.
I can't stay. I'm sorry.
What about the girl, then? Whatever you're involved in, I can't imagine it's good for her well-being.  We can find a home for her.
You can take the Norton.
I don't have any money.
So send us some when you do. Blaze is moved by this man's simple humanity -- but he's also wrestling with the idea of abandoning Rain.
Blaze looks up once more. His eyes are shadowed sockets. This is the real PENANCE STARE, and Blaze is feeling its awful, mournful ache.
He wants to know if you're a bad man. He wants to know -- if the Ghost Rider turned its penance stare on you, would you burn? Blaze clenches his fist around the coin, spins on his heels.
That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon, and our hands have handled, of the Word of life."
through a window which startles her -- only to realize that it's just the scarecrow out in the field, flapping wildly.
"For the life was manifested, and we have seen it, and bear witness, and shew unto you that eternal life, which was with the Father, and was manifested unto us."
"That which we have seen and heard declare we unto you, that ye also may have fellowship with us: and truly our fellowship is with the Father, and with his Son Jesus Christ. And these things write we unto you, that your joy may be full. This then is the message which we have heard of him, and declare unto you, that God is light -- "
-- and in him is no darkness at all."
the land falls sharply away, spilling down into a wide expanse of moonlit ocean pregnant with the promise of release.
Padre. You'd better take a look at this. Rhymer joins him. SEES what he SEES: COYOTES gathering. Six or more. They creep malevolently towards the mission.
You ever see anything like that before?
Rhymer shakes his head, looks to --
She's acutely conscious of the men staring at her now, still clutching the coin like a rabbit's foot.
It's her -- she's the one doing this.
That's enough, Richard.
I'm telling you, Father, there's something wrong with -- CRASH! One of the windows SLAMS open, startling everyone. Rhymer moves to it, latches it shut again.
What is this?! SCARE! A snarling coyote comes out of left field, just misses his throat -- Tolbein leaps backward, SLAMS the door. The men start SHOUTING. Rain backs away. She knows what's happening. WHAM! An animal rams the door. Then another. And another --
Get away from the windows!
Wilson hesitates, eyeing Rain with distrust-
I ain't going nowhere with her. All the men are giving Rain a wide berth now. WHAM! Another snarling coyote hits the glass.
One of you, please, just take the kid to the chapel.
Father, that's the last place she should be. CRUNCH! Something strikes the room a massive blow. Something MUCH BIGGER than a coyote. Viscott starts praying.
Quiet, Viscott! THUMP! CRUMP! More heavy blows. Like the Fist of God. Making the floorboards beneath their feet vibrate. SOMETHING shambles past the window. What in God's name was that?
 I knEw we should've sent them away! THOOM! Another impact. THOOM!THOOM! Plaster cracks. Dust falls. Viscott wails, praying even more stridently. Nunez is losing it_
She's the one they want, I'm telling you! -- and the lights abruptly go ou The storm bellows and blusters. The men huddle together, fear thick and sour.
Raainn -- Raaaaiinnn -- A gastly VOICE, monstrously corrupt, but still recognizable as Billy-Ray Carrigan.
-- where are you, Rainnnnnnn? Rain shrinks away from the insidious mewling.
 I told you -- Even Rhymer is shaken now. He moves to investigate, presses up against a cracked window --
Carrigan stands outside, lurching between patterns of moonlight and shadow. But the movement is all wrong. And in our momentary glimpses of him, we get the sense that he's been horribly changed -- as if his body had been torn apart, then haphazardly reassembled into something else. CRUNCH! The wall fractures. Rhymer staggers back. WHUMP! CRUNCH! A row of impacts moves along the wall -- Tolbein and Nunez scramble to reach the dining room door. They close it, turning the locks. WHANG! Carrigan slams against the other side of the heavy, steel door. WHANG!WHANG! Again and again and again. The men are terrified, SHOUTING at each other. The door is buckling inward, the hinges bending and GROANING -- Then the pummelling stops. Just the sound of BREATHING, halting and phlegmatic. No one moves, not a whisper. CORROSION starts to spread across the metal door.
What the fuck --?! Rhymer edges close to the decaying door, peering through a gap in the frame -- Carrigan peers back, moonlight illuminating his face. There are buttons where his eyes should 12P. He BELLOWS:
Do what he says! Put her out!
Get back with the others!
We don't do what it says, that thing outside there's gonna kill us all. Rhymer steps in front of Rain, levels his shotgun at Tolbein's chest.
God as my witness, Richard, lay a hand on that girl and I will pull this trigger. Tolbein hesitates -- then grabs at the shotgun. He twists it from Rhymer's hands, SMASHES the butt across Rhymer's jaw. Rhymer sinks to the floor. Tolbein grabs Rain, drags her SCREAMING to the door. He waves the shotgun at the others --
Open the fucking door! DO IT! Nunez fumbles with the lock. Rhymer recovers, throws himself at Nunez, tries stop him from opening it. The pounding ceases. All eyes sweep to the door --
roll through the gap between the bottom of the door and the floor, coming to rest at Rhymer's feet -- immediately oottina the floorboards beneath them.
 I can see you, Priest. I can see every last one of you.
A golem of dessicated flesh knitted together with straw and sodden burlap, pieces of insects, twine, and razor wire. Button-socket eyes. Jagged bone teeth. Beetle-black chitin for fingers and nails. His very existence is an affront to nature. Everything the Scarecrow touches instantly corrodes and decays. Floorboards rot, metal rusts. Every movement, every spastic shudder and twitch is a source of incalculable pain.
The Scarecrow thrusts his hand out and a STORM OF DEMONIC CROWS explodes from his chest, whirling about like a cyclone of knives. Now the coyotes enter too. Dozens of them, SNARLING, DIVING at the men, sinking their jaws into flesh. The men are trapped. Some try to flee. Others fight back, swinging chairs and planks --
stalks into their midst, snaring victims left and right, HURLING bodies or pulling them apart -- He snatches Viscott up by his throat. Bugs swarm over the SCREAMING parolee's face as it rots and decays. In seconds, Viscott's entire body decomposes, putrefies, falls apart --
as the OTHER COYOTES do likewise. The coyotes are changing shape, enlarging, canine skeletons CRACKING and re-arranging themselves into --
The same half-glimpsed horrors we glimpsed accompanying Starke. All muscle and gnashing fangs and bloody, ripping claws.
Not a cricket, not a lizard. Just the moonlit expanse of ocean below. Then we hear THUNDER, like distant artillery. Blaze looks back over his shoulder --
Distant thunderheads. LIGHTNING flickering. CLOSE ON Blaze, trying to drive Rain from his mind. We can SEE on his face that it's a losing battle -- for poor, cursed Johnny Blaze has finally understood his purpose on this earth.
pitches through the opening, lurching forward. Jaw-beasts fall in behind him. Razor birds whirl around his head. The survivors scramble for the far exit. Rain opens every gas burner on the grill as she passes by -- but the far exit is locked. And Rhymer doesn't have the key! BOOM! Rhymer shotguns the lock! The lock fractures, but the exit still won't open. Tolbein starts kicking. Rhymer aims
 Shoot the gas!
What?
advances. Bugs swarm from beneath his tattered feet. Every metal implement and surface rusts as he passes.
EMPTY_LINE
so fast that molten asphalt spumes from behind like lava. -- so fast that the goddamn camera can barely catch it and -- B-BOOM!!! The hellcycle breaks MACH 1, SONIC BOOMS rocking the landscape as we --
are vanquished, squealing and flopping like living cinders.
a hundred foot drop straight down to the highway.
There's no way down from here! CRACK! The door behind them splinters. The Scarecrow's found them once again.
And still, they attack. And now the Ghost Rider is weakening. He stumbles on the steps, falls to his knees. The fiends pile atop his back --
Summoning all his power, the Ghost Rider emits a SHOCKWAVE OF FLAME, a HEAT-BOMB that blasts the creatures clean off him.
huddled beneath a flimsy bed-frame.
The Scarecrow hurls aside a bed and finds Tolbein. He reaches for the man, sinking his spindly finger's into Tolbein's chest. Tolbein SCREAMS, instantly shrivelling, corroding into dust -- The Scarecrow hurls aside yet another bed and finds --
aiming his shotgun, point-blank range! BLAM! The BLAST Takes a chunk out of the Scarecrow's face.
Enkindled BUZZING bug-ember things swirl around the Scarecrow's head in a halo, impossibly alive- He stumbles after Rhymer and Rain into
A claustrophobic box of stalls and urinals. Rhymer and Rain are nowhere to be seen. Enraged, the Scarecrow tears into the stalls, ripping them aside one by one --
whip viciously around the Scarecrow's sodden head and torso. He's wrenched backwards, hauled out of the bathroom and SLAMMED across the dormitory into the opposite wall --
battered and weakened, staggering. His flames are barely flickering, his bony flesh has become chalky and brittle. He's holding a jaw-beast skeleton, drops it to the floor -- The Scarecrow attacks. Hand-to-hand combat. Massive blows and blocks. The burning room SHUDDERS with each impact --
Ghost Blaze uses his chains, but he's weak, and Scarecrow turns them back on him, SMASHES him against the walls. More structural fractures, more dust --
surrounding the two foes are starting to bend in earnest now, streaming towards Ghost Blaze's bony, begging fingertips The Scarecrow is oblivious. Just keeps pouring more misery into Ghost Blaze's body as --
-- clouds of embers are pulled into coursing streams-.-- -- roiling fireballs are dragged wildly from walls, floors and ceilings -- -- flame and fury funneling thunderously into SCORCHING FIRE- SPOUTS that cyclone up and up and up into --
An instant in which Rhymer shoves Rain through the hatch -- An instant in which Scarecrow senses his own doom -- Because the Ghost Rider is back- But now he's more than the Ghost Rider. He's a white-hot nuclear bomb fairly vibrating with volcanic heat. And he DETONATES. An apocalyptic release that -- obliterates Scarecrow -- sends Rhymer ducking for cover -- bulges the dormitory's fractured walls and ceiling, lifting the ATTIC FLOOR mightily. HURLING Rain into the air!
emerging from the smouldering bathroom, ghostly white. She picks her way cautiously across the teetering floor. Kneels alongside Ghost Blaze --
Blaze's eyes are black pits, gaunt and skullish_ Rain casts --- - about, finds a BURNING EMBER, cups it in her hands, holds the flame close to his mouth -- Ghost Blaze senses the fire, breathes it in like a drowning man. Draws the flame deep into his lungs, keeps drawing until the ember is gone, internalized. Their eyes meet.
Are you going to die?
Topples. Ghost Blaze and Rain run -- but they're not going to make it. The whole room is dropging away at their heels! Ghost Blaze snatches up Rain, DIVES through a widening split in the wall even as --
first light bleeding in over the distant mountains.
back to human, hopelessly trapped deep in the wreckage. He's barely alive, just a face in the rubble. Carrigan blinks.
 who -- the fuck -- are you, anyway?
Vengeance. And Ghost Blaze raises his hand, HELLFIRE trickling down the length of his arm, swirling around his hand like a building static charge even as --
 Do it, fucker -- dQ it.
appears on a ridge just before them, eyes locking onto him. It's now or never. Ghost Blaze hesitates, hesitates -- then abruptly reins the flame back in. Metabolizes the fury. Pushes it down deep through sheer, agony-inducing willpower. Ghost Blaze SCREAMS, struggles -- -- and forces the Demon away, Now he's just Blaze, weak with exertion, but triumphant for the first time in years. He turns away and we --
It slows to a stop at the end of the drive, ENGINE RUMBLING. Dusty and bug-begrimed from its cross-country journey. Blaze braces himself. A silent inhalation of breath. Rain stares, paralyzed by fear -- The driver's door opens. A hulking silhouette steps out. The Beast, backlit by the fiery dawn which is just breaking over the horizon. Sunlight FLARES outward, briefly blinding us. And when it subsides --
is standing there. Human. Windblown. He raises a hand, shielding his gaze from the light. Steps cowards them --
Blaze moves in front of Rain, blocking Starke's path. They stand there in silence. And Starke smiles, eyes alight with mischief.
Looks like we've come to the end of the road, haven't we?
Guess so. After a long beat:
Give me the girl and I'll lift the curse. Blaze looks down at Rain. This was all he ever wanted. The only thing that has kept him going all these years. He reaches into his jacket, retrieving a crumpled pack of cigarettes. Plucks one out --
She's all yours, Starke -- -- and lights it without a match, somehow conjuring the flame from within himself. He takes a long drag. In the pits of his eyes, something glows there -- a kind of lambent darkness.
-- but you'll have to go through me if you want her. Starke stares into Blaze's eyes. Doesn't like what he SEES.
Don't be a fool, Blaze. I'm offering you your life back.
That's not a life. And least now one I'm interested in living.
You think you can control it. You can't.
Guess I'm willing to take my chances. Starke nods, accepting defeat. For now. He looks down at Rain, a bitter smile creeping across his face --
You have your mother's eyes. -- and walks away. Blaze and Rain watch him retreat. Presently, a coyote slips from shadows, joining him on the road. It--lopes along beside him. We watch them disappear over a rise. Then they're gone. Beat. Rain studies Blaze, reaches for his hand.
He'll be back.
Yeah.
And that's how it ended. With another beginning. A kind of balance struck between the flame and the fury.
balanced perfectly on it's edge. How it fell like that, at the heart of the wreckage, is a mystery that will probably never be solved.
And me? I still sleep. Wandering. Waiting. Listening to the whispers of the dead.
The world turns around without me. There are sharks. And there are doves. And nighttime holds far darker terrors than death. But I am never afraid because I know that he is out there, somewhere. And that someday, somehow -- Blaze ignites, SCREAMS, hurls back his head --
-- he will return to me. -- and the Ghost Rider rockets headlong into black.
