Ever try bein' different? An, I don't mean jus' thinkin' about it, either. Ginger an' me - I mean I... The house numbers read 669. The 9 slips: the number now reads 666.
Ginger an' I? Went for different. Big time. There's a light on in a basement window. We creep up to it, crushing the tulip. borders on the way. The window is propped open with a sneaker: it looks like somebody's foot is caught in it. Music plays inside-
Brigitte. Quit dickin' around. Jus' do it. Brigitte reluctantly stops her thrashing and douses a cotton ball in rubbing alcohol. Without looking up from her TANK GIRL comic, Ginger hauls her own shirt up to expose her navel. Brigitte swabs Ginger's navel with the wet cotton ball. Her eyes drift to Ginger's chest, then back to what she's doing.
Ginger's ten months older than me. we're seriously tight. Share everything. Everything. Around them, many candles burn. There's a dead bolt on the door. An attached full bath. The floors are thick with paranormal books. The walls are covered in images of UFO's and horror flicks. A framed photo of Kurt Cobain with Courtney Love has a place of honor. There's an old Polaroid of the girls at five in Halloween costumes; Lill Red Riding Hood and the Big Bad Wolf. Ginger is the wolf. Brigitte produces an enormous darning needle. It glints. she levels it at Ginger's navel, her hand shaking.
 Uh-huh.
.I can't. Ginger gives Brigitte a look over the top of her comic. Brigitte takes a deep breath, and lines the needle up again. Brigitte swallows hard and applies pressure. The needle pierces Ginger's skin. Her stomach muscles flinch.
You said it wouldn't hurt!
Jus' hurry up! The needle has stopped moving half-way through the skin.
Uh-oh . Brigitte wiggles the needle. Blood wells up around it.
Um. I think it's stuck. Oh man. There's blood... Ginger lowers her comic. she takes one look at the needle half-.in, half-out of her belly button - and cracks up.
snot funny, Ginger! Laughing her head off, Ginger gives the needle a good tug from her end. The skin tugs with it, resisting.
Ali, gawd, gross. Ginger yanks the needle, hard. This time it moves.
I got it, I got it. Ginger grits her teeth. The needle begins a slow progress.
It's goin', it's goin'- gimme the ring Brigitte grabs at a tiny silver ring on the bed spread but knocks it to the floor. Brigitte scrambles after it. Ginger yanks the needle.
Bee?! C'mon! Brigitte finds the ring and hands it to Ginger. Ginger sets the ring on the end of the needle, looping it not-so-neatly through.
Oh, groo-oo-o-ss! The bloody needle pops clear. Ginger grinds on the ring to close it. Ginger wipes her bloody hands on the bed. Brigitte is taking deep, gulping breaths.
Bee? Feeb. Y'okay?
Yeah. I think so.
If you din't say it hurt, I'd a been fine! Ginger beams at her new piercing.
Pretty cool, unh? The flesh around the navel is hot pink and bruising. Brigitte grins too.
very cool.
Now I'll do you. Brigitte bravely hangs onto to her smile.
We do everything together. But, at fifteen? A chick can change. Ya know? [3A! You got no idea.
Don't get me wrong. It's not like we were all happy or nothin' to begin with. Brigitte takes a long, ponderous drag on her cigarette as - unmoved - she takes in Ginger's mortal wound. Brigitte eyes the identical homes and gardens that stretch on to the horizon.
The suburb of Bailey Downs? Basically a well lit black hole. The Kingdom of cul du sac. That's French for Dead End. Brigitte flicks her smoke into a pile of neatly raked leaves. It smolders then goes out. She scowls.
You had a gram of personality out here? Life bit the big one. A truck with COUNTY REGREENING PROGRAM on its side pulls up a few houses over. Brigitte watches a shirtless sun-bronzed Adonis - SAM -- climb out of the cab.
Of course I'm generalizing. A tarty teenage girl - TRINA - bounds up to Sam and gives him a big wet one.
No I'm not.
The fuck, Bee. Take a picture already. Brigitte raises a 35mm still camera to her eye and frames her sister's corpse in the viewfinder.
snap! Ginger sliced up with an electric knife in the kitchen, Snap! Ginger drowned in a bubble bath, Snap! Ginger hanged by nylons in the laundry room, Snap! Ginger mangled under the front tires of a mini van.
We were always considered freaks. For as long as I can remember, there was Us. And there was Them. Like from kindergarten.
Very -um. Class? Comments? The students trade constipated looks.
Brigitte. What does it mean for you? Brigitte shrugs and squirms.
Means there's more to life than -- well, li.fe. The Fitzgeralds look expectantly at row after row of blank faces. Brigitte shakes her head.
Attempts at communication wore futile. JASON McCARDY- a good-looking high school Casanova - looks Ginger over appraisingly. Ginger ignores him.
Some of Them did seem to wanna reach Ginger? Brigitte glances from Ginger's breasts to her own flat chest. Brigitte takes a deep breath.
But nobody wanned to reach me. The bell goes.
 Like I cared.
Ginger and Brigitte slip down the crowded corridors, sticking out like sore thumbs. Ginger holds her forehead.
Gawd, People! They hurt my brain!
They didn't even get it.
They're retards.
They're cretins.
They're bone-heads.
't'hey' re somnambulists.
They're leems.
They're the goddamn walkin'-/ The girls stop before their locker. A folded up piece of loose leaf has been crushed into it, its end sticking out.
Ginger pockets the joint, crumples the paper into a ball and tosses it at a near-by trash can. She misses. The girls head down the hall..
Somebody leaves you all. these jays an, yer not even curious to call?
No pe . A FAT JANITOR scoops up the wad of loose leaf with great resentment and jams it into the trash. Brigitte and Ginger pass a NECKING COUPLE practically dry- humping, GIRLS applying make-up to one another, and BOYS snapping each other with their sports cups. Jason and his fellow jock-pals TIM, FRANK, and JEREMY are scoping babes. Ginger bends to tie her boot lace and a collective groan swells from the guys.
See? She's weird, but hot.
Anybody poled Fitzy yet? Brigitte gives them a disgusted look.
Not that one. The cute one. Brigitte's face falls. Ginger gives them a Death Stare. The boys try flirty smiles.
 Sad. Must be hard to think with yer brains slappin' around yer thighs like that all day. Brigitte laughs. Ginger pulls her on, past a sign: GYMNASIUM.
We didn't do guys. Guys were too gross. Everyone at Bailey High was just too incredibly gross. Ginger applies her boot to a swinging door and they enter,
The only thing worse than most teenage boys are most teenage girls. Trinas are the limit. Ginger digs at her lower abdomen painfully.
I feel sick.
Me too.
No, J. mean really. Gingler opens a locker and tears off her clothes. Other girls glance at her navel piercing with disgust.. Brigitte is very self-conscious: she steps almost inside the locker, hiding behind the door while she changes into the revolting school gym outfit. She eyes the buxom bubble heads with contempt, as
There was really only one Trina, but they were all the same. Trina finds the Fitzgeralds' open locker door a nuisance. She pushes it out of her way, hard enough to whack Brigitte in the head on the other side.
 Y' okay's
I HATE her. Like to feed her ground glass with tacks for desert. Then make her puke it back up and swallow it again until she's like shredded to a bazillion pieces from the inside out... Ginger grips her sides painfully and bends double.
what's the matter?
I got gas...Maybe I'll try an, cut one right in her face out there. They slap hands, laughing. They look down at their gym outfits, which are SO unflattering. Brigitte and Ginger exchange identical looks of agony.
After two weeks a' high school., ya come to the conclusion it's all about agony. Take Phys. Ed, sus' practise takin' pain. The gym teacher. M7.,. SYKES - an aging former-traffic cop - hucks the players sticks with nets on one end. Sykes is given to screaming.
Field lacrosse is no pussy-assed tea party, ya get IN there, get a LOCK on your target and PUSH IT! I want SWEAT I want ACTION! The Trinas giggle at Sykes. Ginger bends forward, holding her sides.
Shake a leg, Fitzgeralds. An, butt out, you gotta death wish!?
Feel really sick, Mz. Sykes.
Cigarettes'll do that for you! Move! Ginger flicks the smoke at Sykes' turned back. It falls short, of course. The sisters trudge to their places on the field. Ginger is on the offensive line. Brigitte is in goal.
Phys. Ed. is not optional at Bailey High. Sykes blows the whistle. A fast-moving, hard-hitting lacrosse scrimmage begins. IN RAPID-FIRE MONTAGE: Ginger gets caught in the crunch of sticks and bodies, pushed, kicked, and punished by the Trinas, who are having 'fun'. IN RAPID-FIRE MONTAGE: Brigitte visibly cowers as a tangle of marauding, ball-whacking bodies descend on her. She takes a number of direct hits from the hard rubber ball. on a powerful press for a goal, Trina slams into Brigitte so hard Brigitte flies right out of the net area. And skids face-first .into a mangled dog's body. The whistle blows and play stops. Ginger lopes over, breathless, gripping her sore stomach.
I been waiting for this. There'd been a lot of dead dogs around lately, but this was my personal first. Brigitte slowly climbs out of the mucky canine remains to her knees. She's covered in doggie guts and maggots.
Oh, HOW GRO-O-O-O-OSS!!
'Kay, here's the weird thing about me. I dig dead stuff. Live things make me sick, they're all warm and snotty and shitty and pissy. And live things jus' suffer, which I can't take. But a dead thing? S'kinda beautiful, 'cause a dead thing's really I dunno -like, free.
Don't TOUCH it, Fitzgerald! What's WRONG with you two?! Get up and hit the SHOWERS!
Everyone was all like, Oh it's a teen cult, or aah, it's some looney, the Beast a' Bailey Downs. What crap.
All RIGHT, ladies, settle! This is no joke! You have information about the dog deaths you do
Teen cult my ass. Look Ginge', something went for its throat - it's not cut, it's chewed... Brigitte looks up in time to see Ginger's eyes roll back in her head. Ginger faints. The class inhales as one.
Ginger? Sykes and the class stampede up. Sykes pushes Brigitte out of the way.
Ginger's no pussy. She doesn't faint. I might faint. Like, if this pooch were only HALF-dead, I could faint. Brigitte stumbles over the dog carcass. She hugs herself.
The fainting' s worrisome you don't diet do you dear?
No.
Hm. Anemia's very common at your age. Eat more red meat, try an iron vitamin supplement. If it happens again, straight to a proper doctor, all righty? Brigitte looks relieved.
Now as for 'the headache, cramps, lower back pain .I'm guessing your period is due.
I haven't got a, um, period.
Never? Flow old are you?
Fifteen. our mother says we're late bloomers.
Well judging by your troubles, I'd say you can expect to blossom any time now! Brigitte pulls a face. Ferry produces numerous samples of feminine hygiene products and heaps them onto Ginger.
Are you familiar with all these? Ginger shrugs.
Now what suits one girl might not be comfortable for another. The proper form of protection is a personal choice, and may have a lot to do with your menstrual flow, which naturally changes during the time you'll have your little miracle of nature. It could start thick and syrupy, move to a straight-forward basic bright red bleeding and then perhaps a deep brownish to blackish slime, signaling the end of the flow. Twenty-eight days later or there abouts, it'll start all over again and continue every month until menopause, in about thirty years' time. Nurse Ferry produces a pocket calendar with a tampon or pad advertisement for every month.
Here's a little calendar to keep track, count from the day it starts twenty-eight days. That'll be your next time. You have any questions, come see me again.  You too sweetheart, be your turn shortly, I expect. Brigitte Looks horrified.
Here's a dirty word. Inevitability. That fate fully intended us to be typical in any way, sooner or later, was so insulting. Ginger and Brigitte trudge homeward looking completely depressed. Brigitte flips through the feminine hygiene calendar. Ginger watches the pavement beneath her feet.
 "Some days it's all you need."-? What does that mean?
So you pulled a Quincy on that dog, unh?
Hunh? Ginger grabs the calendar and sticks it in her pocket.
Quincy, that guy with the stiffs on cable. Alls I remember is you goin', "Teen cult my ass".
Oh. Right. Well, I dunno. Brigitte shrugs. She gives Ginger a funny look.
Why are you looking at me like that? Do I look - different?
No.
Can you tell I'm going to-?
No. .Really. Ginger squints at her, unconvinced.
Wham. Total adultness. How can I have a miracle of nature an, not be old enough to drive! fiurih? The fuck. Ginger kicks a kiddie toy hard into a yard. Brigitte doesn't have an answer to this.
Hey. If I start simpin' around tampon dispensers and moanin' over cramps, or even think about buying somethin' that says Baby Powder Fresh? You'll. shoot me, right? BR TG.'i"I'L of course. They exchange grins.
Out by sixteen
.or dead in this scene. Ginger raises her hand and Brigitte smacks it hard. As they mount the drive, Ginger picks up a stone and hucks it at Norman, who's still barking. She misses.
If we failed to get a life by Ginger's sixteenth birthday? we were s'posed to gas ourselves in the garage. For smart girls, we could be pretty dumb. we prob'ly never woulda done it, but we seemed to need a deadline.
PAMELA , are liberal, middle class folks in their early forties. Ginger looks bored. Brigitte eats like a pig.
How was school today?
Fine.
The nicest thing I could say about Henry and Pamela was also the meanest thing I could say.
Didn't you have a presentation? How'd it go?
Fine. Pamela and Henry exchange irritatingly patient smiles.
They were easily satisfied. A rogue's gallery on the wall depicts Henry and Pamela's transformation over the years from angry young Ban The Bomb- types into middle-class mundane.
Made an appointment for you girls at my gynecologist. Next Thursday. Henry studies his plate. Ginger almost imperceptibly shakes her head at Brigitte. Brigitte nods, understanding.
why.
You know why.
we're not going to a gynecologist.
What did I say about that tone of voice? .You are going to the gynecologist.
Dad!? She's completely paranoid!
I'd rather stay out of this.
She's gonna have some fat jerk get his jollies poking his fingers up our ./
Henry, neither one of them has had a period yet.
Ah. Yes. You've said. Repeatedly. As Pamela says the next line, Ginger mou t:hs it- word for word 1.a Brigitte.
It's very odd that two perfectly healthy fifteen year olds are not menstruating. Right? Briggitte apes Henry's next line back to Ginger.
Mmmm. steak's really yummy tonight. This a new sauce? The sisters giggle. Pamela is losing her cool.
I started at eleven. The problem must be on your side, Henry.
Pamela? This is not my fault. No one's at fault here.
when did your sister start?
I've told you, I really have no idea. Oddly enough, we never discussed it. why don't you call her and ask her yourself?
I can't call her out of the blue and ask a thing like that. Besides, it's dinner time. They'll be eating.
A--ha!
Well I've been checking panties for four years now
You look at our underwear? Fuck!
Hey, hey - I don't want to hear that word in my house. You will do as your mother says and I will change the subject. Anybody going to tell me what happened to my fence? From under the table, Henry produces the bloodied, sawed-off picket stained bloody from Ginger's impaling. Brigitte holds her full mouth open so Ginger can see its masticated contents. Ginger cracks up laughing. Henry and Pamela sigh.
Why din't you jus' tell her you're going to get it?
Can't take her 'attention'. She grosses me out. Can't believe she's our mother. Brigitte puts a fresh tampon up her nose and lifts a Polaroid camera at arms' length from her face.
Yeah, but now we have to see this doctor. You can jus' say you got it, but I'm screwed. FLASH! The Polaroid spits out the front. Brigitte sticks another tampon in her free nostril, and one in each ear as,
Did I get you out of Home Ec? Did I get you out of ballet classes? So I'll get you out of this, right?
I said I will, I will. This jay's fine. Let us smoke, sister. Ginger cranks the stereo and throws on a coat. She double- takes Brigitte' s tampon face.
WHAT are you doing?
 Look - a walrus.
Hardee-har. Har.
How'l1 you know when you finally get it any ways?
Prob'ly feel like peein' your pants.
Disgusting.
Well I'm not too excited.
 We're missing Unsolved Mysteries.
Wish I was an unsolved mystery. Brigitte reflects on this heavy thought, nodding - stoned.
Hey. You smell somethin' gross?
This is so not my day. Brigitte helps her to her feet. Ginger shakes what she slipped on off her shoe. It's a long, ropy intestine. She drags her shoe to get the blood and goo of it.
Nice. Dog shit.
 That isn't shit... it's death. A line of blood and gore trails across the grass to a back lane. Brigitte follows it. Ginger looks around for something on the ground.
Great. Lost the jay. Great.
Ack, it's still warm, gross. Brigitte takes its picture FLASH! with the Polaroid, which is strung around her neck.
Why every dog but the mutt next door to us?
Hey, we could take it home. Try like, an autopsy. Like, crack the case!
Nah. Let's put ' im in there so he won't. Lraumatize the kiddies.
They trot the dog over to the dumpster. Brigitte sulks.
What.
We never do what I wanna do.
Oh, c' mon. Would stink up the whole room! They hoist the dog up and dump it in the dumpster. It's hind end sticks out. Brigitte climbs into the dumpster, dragging it all the way in. Dusting herself off, Ginger notices some blood on her thigh.
Nice. Ginger wipes at the blood with her hand. More appears. She lifts up the hem of her skirt. Her face falls. She looks around. She slips her fingers up to her crotch. Her hand comes out bloody.
Bee. I JUST got the curse. Brigitte stops rooting garbage over the dog.
Serious? Ginger wiggles her wet fingers at her.
We gotta go home.
Eeew, 'kay. Brigitte catches her kilt on a nail sticking out of a plank in the trash. Something is crunching through the leaves toward them. Ginger peers out into the darkness.
Hurry upt
I'm stuck3 A few homes down, a garage's motion-sensitive security lamp trips on. Ginger squints, blinded.
Bee?: Brigitte contorts to deal with the nail. Brigitte tears her hem free and jumps down. The light snaps off.
 Let's go this way. Brigitte dips a hand back into the dumpster for the plank with the nail. Off Ginger's look, Brigitte shrugs. They start walking down the lane. The greenery behind them starts swelling again. The leaves crunch, faster. Brigitte and Ginger look at one another, and walk faster. The lane empties behind a deserted strip mall.
This is stupid. We're getting farther from home. Ginger is pissed off now. she turns to confront their stalker.
 All right you ass-/ She's cut cold by a roaring blur of speeding fur and teeth and claws: SOMETHING takes Ginger down hard. We cannot see it as a whole, we can't make out what it is. It's big, heavy, and raging. Immense jaws snap vicious teeth, going for Ginger's jugular. Brigitte drops her plank.
Brigitte grabs and kicks at the creature. Ginger raises her arms and covers her head, screeching and kicking. The thing grabs Ginger by the scruff and shakes the living daylights out of her.
Go-go-go-go-go-go!!!! Brigitte drops the plank and they run like hell.. for a main thorough-way ahead. It pursues them.
At a dead run Brigitte and Ginger sail between moving cars. The thing burns behind them. The girls are barely missed by an approaching truck. There is a long blast of a horn. Then a sickening thud. Brakes squeal incto a stop as a horrible dragging/ scrain fills the night air. The girls crash to the sidewalk, spilling over top of one another. They glance over their shoulders, even as they disappear into a new residential stretch. The COUNTY REGREENING PROGRAM truck sits at a right angle in the road, it's front end smashed.
Brigitte notices the rivulets of blood trickling down Ginger's arms. Ginger's shirt is soaking with growing red stains.
Ginger, shit! Ginger looks at herself. Ginger starts to cry.
The fuck was that, Bee?
I couldn't remember Ginger crying, ever. Brigitte flies out to,
Brigitte offers Ginger the wet cloth, but Ginger's helpless.
Ginger, sshhh, don't, 'kay. Don't cry. Carefully, Brigitte begins to dab at Ginger's arms with it, wiping off the blood. Ginger flinches. The damage is gradually revealed: massive claw marks, deep scratches, and puncture wounds - BITE MARKS. Brigitte's eyes fill with tears.
Okay, this is really bad. You need a doctor, Ginge', I can't stop all the -/
No! Not tellin' anybody! Bee?! Nobody. Get in shit for bein' out, smokin' up - don't tell.
What if you get, sick? What if these bites get infected?
Bce!
Fine! I won't tell! Brigitte starts tearing off strips of gauze and taping it on thick. Oblivious, Ginger fumbles for a smoke. She can't get the lighter to work.
Wanted to kill me! I could tell.
 I know, I know. I was so scared, I thought you were -/
Me too. Don't say it. I know. Brigitte lights her smoke for her. Ginger takes a drag and passes it back to Brigitte.
Fuck. You okay? Brigitte resumes her first aid.
Why!?? Why me?
It was crazy, it was like rabid or somethin' -- Shit, look at the size of these bites!
I'm okay, I'm okay, I'm okay. Right? It's okay. Brigitte doesn't look convinced. Brigitte snaps the port of an internal vacuum system open and reaches into the tube. She withdraws a sample-size of Jack Daniels.
Drink this. Ginger glugs some down, and passes the last mouthful left to Brigit.t.e. Brigitte waves it. away, -,o Ginger finishes it al.l.
I seen this thing, on bears? Said bears'd come after like, chicks on the rag. 'Cause of the smell.
Wasn't my fault!
I didn't say that.../
Wasn't a f uckin' bear either. Whatever it was, it wasn't a bear!
I know, I'm not /
Do I stink? Can you smell it?
Doesn't feel anythin' like peeing your pants, by the way.
It doesn't?
It's gross though. It's really gross. I better, ya know, deal with that...
Yeah, sure. Ginger's only half-bandaged up. she staggers to the bathroom and shuts the door. Brigitte eyes the Polaroid camera: a picture sits ready to be dispensed. She pulls it free. We do not see the photo. Brigitte's eyes bug out as she examines it. The toilet flushes in the bathroom and Brigitte pushes the photo under the pillow on her bed. Shaking her head.
It was blurry. It was really outta focus, so. Ya couldn't TELL it was really anything. Ginger emerges pulling uncomfortably at her crotch. she climbs painfully onto her bed, and collapses.
That booze - straight to my head, man.
You really okay? Ginger-es eyes are already fluttering shut.
You saved me. Love you. Bee. Brigitte leans in, listening to Ginger breathe.
Me too, Ginge'.
I woke up later, I thought the thing was in our room. Brigitte peers at Ginger: she's snoring. Brigitte pulls out the Polaroid and fires up her lighter to see by. This time we see it too. A streak of fur, fangs and a golden glinting eye.
Then I remembered Sam the tree planter killed it with his truck, an' we were okay. .But really, Ginger -? well. Wasn't.
Gonna eat that? Ginger shakes her head as she picks at her bandages. Brigitte helps herself.
Mmm! Sad, but Pamela's egg salad is her best thing. Like that she can do.  Like, when she puts the baby onions in?  And she gobs on it and adds those hard little pieces of
Ginger pulls at her own crotch.
Hell-o 1?
Sorry. Pads suck, so ya know.
Should eat something.
Thanks Pamela, I'm aware. Off Brigitte's insulted look,
T dunno, I'm all blaaahh, I got this, like I can taste what I want, but nothin's it. Ya know? Brigitte stops in mid-chew.
A craving?
Yeah. I crave. Ya know? Brigitte chews very slowly as she stares at Ginger. Ginger squints at Jason and his pals across the yard.
McCardy's a stoner right?
Yeah -?
C'mon, I wanna feel better.
You joke. Ginger heads off toward the boys - without waiting. Brigitte is in mid-,mouthful, and has to scramble to catch up.
Uh - hi.
Hey. So. Nice day, blah blah blah. Got any smoke?
What?
Smoke. Grass, weed, dope, green, bud, Nancy.
Sh-sure.
Wanna share?
I was all like, so who are you, an' what have you done with my sister, right? Brigitte climbs in.
Jason hands Ginger the joint, making sure their fingers touch.
Hey. I thought your slide show in art was cool.
Oh yeah/Unh-huh/Very cool.
Yeah?
This home-grown?
Yeah. This guy we know? Learned hydrophonics in the pen, man.
HydroPONics.
Yeah, whatever. Brigitte gapes at Ginger, who does not respond. Brigitte hides beneath her hair and presses even further into a corner. She starts quietly ripping up the corner of the old shag rug. There is a codified knock on the vain door. Brigitte jumps.
speak of the devil. Enter! The back doors open and Sam  stands in silhouette, backlit by the day. His battered county truck waits behind him. He has a pit bull with him - MORELY.
Sam the Man! Hey Morely! Sam and Morely hop in and close the doors. Brigitte is frozen at the sight of Sam up so close.
Whoa dude. What happened to your truck?
Shit. Had an accident on the 403. It was weird it../ Morely stomps into Brigitte's lap, sniffing her crotch.
 Sorry about him, he's an ass hole. Morely! My girlfriend's, she won't leave him at home alone any more. Ya know, dog killers. Morely, no! Sit! Brigitte's mouth is hanging open. Morely slobbers all over her hands.
I know, I look like an asshole. Ginger's perma-smug smile fades as she makes eye contact with Morely. Morel growls at her. Sam is about to resume his accident story when,
Watcha got for us? Sam produces several baggies of grass. Morely's hackles rise. Brigitte looks from the dog to Ginger, Ginger squirms.
New harvest, see whatcha think.  What's your problem? Never seen a pretty girl before? Ginger sneers at Morely and Morely bares his teeth.
 Thanks, man. Morely bursts out barking and charges at Ginger. Mayhem as the guys try to contain the dog in the small space. Jason uses the opportunity to shield Ginger for a free body press. Brigitte gets banged and shoved. Ginger kicks and screams at the dog, her boot connects squarely with his snout. Morely keels back, and Sam snaps him up.
Sorry, he's not really like this. I'm really sorry.
Jus' get'im out!
I'm really - well, see you guys. And in another flash of daylight, Sam and Morely are gone. Brigitte looks longingly at the closed door. The stone has set in, and everyone but Brigitte giggles as they settle. Brigitte takes in the Lesser Mortals like they're lepers.
You okay?
Yeah. Just hate dogs. They give one another this corny smile. Brigitte bugs her eyes at Ginger. Ginger rises reluctantly.
Well. Thanks for the smoke.
Maybe we could --/ Ginger places a finger to her lips, then makes a finger gun and shoots him.
I'll letcha know. Ginger grins ear-to-ear, elbowing Brigitte. Ginger kicks the van doors open and saunters out. Brigitte :Follows, trying not to laugh.
I'll letcha, I'll jus' let-choo know. Bud. .So Ginger. Wanna tell me about you and like, the planet yer currently visiting? No answer. Brigitte squints at the tampon dispenser next to her. She tries to work it without putting money in. She smacks her dry lips. Brigitte bends over the sink and drinks from the tap.
Bee-? Brigitte doesn't hear her over the roar of the tap in her face. It shuts off automatically over her gaping mouth. Brigitte puts her finger up the spout and almost gets it stuck.
Bee!
Com'ere-! Brigitte shuffles to the wrong door, opens it and finds it empty. She giggles and moves to the next one.
That smoke fucked me _up._ up. Brigitte finds Ginger with her shirt and all, the bandages peeled off. she is dabbing at herself with wads of toilet paper. The scratches and bites are oozing a clear gelatinous goo, under which a fine film of dark hairs have sprouted. Brigitte steps into the stall agape. The door hits her on the way in.
Geez that's not right.
1 didn't think.
What's the sticky stuff?
I dunno.
Oooh. Tickly.
I got it on my tits too, look.
Weird. Does it hurt?
No, it's itchy. I can't have a hairy chest Bee, that's fucked.
Yeah, like forget that tattoo you wanned.
This sucks.
Quito badly. The idiocy of the looks of awe on the other's face makes them both crack up.
Attacked. On a full moon. Now, yer hairy.
 Stop, I'm serious. Think about it. Ginger stops laughing long enough to let the suggestion settle.
That's so stupid! They both burst into gales again. There is a sound outside the stall, as
Eeeew! Trina backs away, her hands to her mouth.
Gawd: They're lesbos!
Feeeewww!! Brigitte smacks her forehead. Ginger steps out and leers at Trina, licking her lips in a grotesque mock-lust. The Trinas shrink back against the farthest wall.
Yeah, who's next? I'm still sticky! Brigitte's jaw drops. Ginger turns to leave and the Trinas, start to relax. Ginger whips around again:
 Rrr-uf, ruf, rr-of-rufrf
'Course Trina din't waste any time. Trina stares Brigitte down as she folds up a note and passes it to a classmate. It is read and passed on by every kid in the room during this scene. Brigitte holds her scalpel over the over their piggy - hesitating. Ginger's attention is riveted on the little carcass.
They're all looking at us.
So? Ginger looks up at Jason, who is reading the note. Jason smiles at Ginger and destroys the note. Trina seethes. Ginger grabs the knife from Brigitte. she makes a deep incision in the pig's belly.
So! You're growing fur an, acting like a nut, is so! Ginger spies two girls giggling at her. Using both hands Ginger cracks the carcass. wide open like a clam. Ginger digs in, gouging out the pig's parts with her bare hands. Ginger breaks into a sweat, her breathing gets heavy. Brigitte cautiously looks around at their classmates. she moves to shield Ginger from prying eyes.
Um. Ginger-?
hold on, I'm goi.n' for the brain. Ginger has begun scraping away at the pig's cranium with her finger nails. A sickening creak, snap, and the brain is exposed. Ginger - unconsciously - licks her fingers as she admires its frontal lobe.
Can't believe you did that!
Hunh? What? Before Brigitte can answer, Ginger lifts the brain out on her finger tips, gently pushes Brigitte out of her way and... Whap! The brain lands squarely on Trina's head. Trina screams.
Ha-ha! Bull's eye!
Ginger Fitzgerald! Hall, NOW!
What, it slipped! As Ginger stomps out with the teacher. Brigitte and Trina gape at one another.
That week, Ginger was all over the map. She was the goddamn schizo poster girl. She forgot the gyno guy. I couldn't believe she forgot. She promised. Brigitte is dying a thousand deaths on the examining table with her feet in stirrups. The GYNECOLOGIST is examining her. A NURSE stands next to him, smiling benignly as she passes him the contraption used to take a pap smear. Brigitte is almost in tears.
Same moment in the examination procedure, but now Ginger is in the stirrups. And the doctor is shocked at his findings.
What the -?
I've never seen anything like it. She's not built like a normal girl. I've sent samples to the lab. But this is very, VERY unusual. Brigitte pokes Ginger in the ribs. Ginger doesn't like this, and pushes Brigitte so hard she almost falls off her chair.
Girls, please.
What're you, nuts? I got a skin thing, whatever.
If you just gotta skin thing why does it get worse everytime yer being a bitch? Why's the gyno say you're a monster inside?
He din't say that!
I'm takin' a shower.
".. .for eventually the blood- lust over-takes human reason, overtakes oven the instinct for self-preservation, and he will risk all for the excitement of the euphoric high of his murders." Ginger shaves the delicate area around her ankles. She cuts herself and freaks. Ginger snaps the Lady Bic in half and throws the pieces hard against the shower wall.
Fuck fuck fuck FUCK There are two other broken razors in the stall, stuffed with hairs. Blood mixes with the water and swirls around her toes.
But see all the books and movies an' shit said it had to be a full moon, that it'd be all at once. An, ya know, not one word about chick werewolves on the rag. Typical.
Sonnovabitch! Now livid, Ginger takes up a dead tree branch. Up in the tree, Brigitte hides her face in her hands. Ginger (:racks the stick over the dog's head. The yelping stops but Ginger keeps hitting. Blood splatters over her face. And Ginger tastes it. Ginger drops her stick. She drags the body into the hedge next to the fence. Brigitte lowers her hands from her eyes. Ginger is directly below her, concealed from the house by the shrubs. Ginger falls to her knees before the corpse. She lifts a rattling hand to touch him. She lowers her face to the bloody mess. She's sweating, vibrating, physically resisting an irresistible drive. Ginger's tongue slips between her lips. And Ginger licks Morely's body.
Oh. No. G-ginger -! Ginger begins to eat the dead dog. The feed. quickly becomes a ravenous frenzy. Above her, Brigitte leans over the branch she's barely balancing on, hyperventilating. Vomit sails down from Brigitte's perch.
Dore-maan! Tweat-time! Hunh. The neighbor steps into the yard. Approaches the hedge. Stops right before them - they can see a pair of slippers twitching in the grass. Then they disappear, the porch light switches off, the screen door shuts.
Ever been too sick to be sick? Like the bottom of your stomach is wrapped over the top of your head? There is a knock at the door. Brigitte checks the dead bolt is on.
Yeah?!
Who's showering so late?
Ginger!
Why?
she's dirty?! Brigitte throws up her hands: what an idiotic conversation.
Dirty!? How'd she get/
oh, all right then. Brigitte slumps against the door. The showers stops. Ginger appears in a towel, pink and clean and freshly furry in places. She's in a really good mood. She takes one look at Brigitte's face of doom and tries to be serious.
I couldn't help it. Really. Guess you were right. Ginger finds and lights a smoke.
You know what's really weird?
Weirder than KILLING A DOG AND
I liked it. I liked it a lot. I feel all fucki.n' goofy now. Like, I dunno. Like .happy? Brigitte shakes her head over and over.
I feel like I just got off the Planet Smasher ride at WarWorid, okay? It rules! Ginger leaps to the stereo and blasts on some tunes. She flails around the room wildly. Ginger grabs Brigitte by the arms and makes her dance too. Ginger spins and spins Brigitte, who fights it but laughs.
So she'd killed Norman. 1 never seen anyone bliss out like that. I wanted to be so blissed, jus' once. There is repeated pounding on their door. Brigitte still entangled in Ginger, hits the music off.
Little late for that, girls.
/Sorry; They stand in each other's arms listening to Pamela mount the stairs OFF SCREEN. Ginger shoves Brigitte backward onto her bed. Ginger piles on top of her, playfully pinning her down.
I want more. Brigitte squirms fitfully.
Not if you help. Bee. I'm starving. Brigitte looks into her sister's beaming face.
Jus' keep watch. Look, I'm gonna be somethin' totally else. Tell me you don't so dig it. Tell me you don't wanna see what happens. Brigitte groans.
Straight up? Crazy's contagious. Trust me.
M-m-mMOMI?
The more we did, the crazier she got...
The crazier she got, the more she needed me. I liked that part. In their room, Brigitte helps Ginger shave her back. Ginger trims her elongating nails. Brigitte plucks hairs from Ginger's palms. Ginger brushes her teeth and a piece of tooth comes off - she has a little fang.
on the field both Brigitte and Ginger hang upside down from the goal post by their knees. Brigitte is wearing a dog collar as a necklace. They are laughing their heads off and trying to pull each other's shirts down to expose each other's breasts.
You love it. Brigitte examines the feminine hygiene calendar. In it, a cartoon of a female egg is personified with a heels and sunglasses, strutting across the date.
trey, look yer ovulating. Ginger rubs her belly.
I'm still hungry, Bee.
How can you - you've done every dog we can
It's not enough. I want somethin'... I need more.
Got a light, Jace'? Jason and his pals all fumble for lighters and five little flames appear before her smoke. She lights her smoke on Jason's, and exhaling looks him up and down. The boys flames go out, all at once.
My sister would like one also. obediently, they all light up for Brigitte. Brigitte falters before the attention. At Ginger's nod, Brigitte lights up too.
Slut. Ginger turns to see Trina and the Clones sizing her up.
Excuse me? Ginger seems to tower over the Trinas today. Trina can't match the menace. Ginger exhales smoke in Trinals face and climbs the steps into the school. Brigitte double-takes Ginger's back. Ginger's spine is protruding sharply through her shirt. Trina leers at Brigitte.
Better watch your back, Fitzenstein. Brigitte snorts and follows Ginger in.
 Like I'm scared.
we need your cooperation. If you know anything about the so- called Beast of Bailey Downs, call in. You can be anonymous.
Ha! As if they weren't already.
But your pets aren't safe until the perpetrator is caught. Ginger sighs loudly and Brigitte prods her.
Mz. Sykes breaks it up by dragging Ginger off Trina. Sykes tends to Triria, who bawls. Ginger wipes her bloody hand over her mouth.
Ginger! Ginger's rolling the taste of Trina's blood around in her mouth.
Mmnun .
You can't do that, That's human blood! .Feel anything? Brigitte and Ginger stare at one another. Ginger first shakes her head., but then nods. Ginger looks around and whispers
It's sick but - I'm all like horny. Brigitte makes a sour face.
Fitzgerald, bench!
What, she started it! Brigitte watches Ginger march to the sidelines, throwing off her gear as she goes.
Pick that stuff up! Ginger gives Sykes the finger without looking back. Brigitte groans.
Yer bitch sister's dead, freak.
 Fuck off. Jason lopes up. He indicates the guidance office door.
Ginger in there again? Brigitte ignores him.
Cool. Um. Look, Belinda...
Brigitte.
Right, right. T'd really like to take yer sister out. Think you could ask her for me?
Hey. I could fix you up too. I guess. Brigitte seethes.
Fuck. Never mind, I'll ask her myself.  Freak. Jason takes a post on the opposite Brigitte to wait. Brigitte glares at him.
Look, you keep getting sent here. We might as well be friendly.
I don't do friendly, Mr. Wayne.
Hey. I know where you're coming from. I was a kid once too.
Really? So was I. Weird. Ginger fakes an eye-lash batting smile. She winds the condom over her erect fingers.
Okay, you aren't a kid. You're a young adult. With some issues. Let's explore them.
Hey. I'm reaching out here. Your plays for attention are a cry for help, aren't they?
Uh, no.
Is it a problem at home? With your parents?
They think I'm cute. Mr. Wayne sighs.
Maybe I ought to split you and your sister up.
Aw, c'mon Mr. Wa-ayne. Divide aii' conquer? That's so old.
Hey. You're antisocial, antagonistic, and now violent. The point of high school is you learn to develop a place for yourselves in society.../
'Long as you like it.
As long as you're at this school young lady, I better like it. Ginger gives him a cold, dead stare.
consider this your final warning. I see you outta line again, and we're talking expulsion. And don't look at me like that, missy.
Fuckin' guidance my ass. She pounds her fist into a locker and makes a dent. Brigitte cringes. Ginger admires the damage.
Holy... Ginger notices Jason and visibly brightens.
Hey.
Hey. whatcha doin' now?
Nothin' special.
Wanna go for a ride?
Sure. C'mon Bee. Jason and Brigitte's faces darken simultaneously.
Ginger, we should get home.
No we shouldn't. Brigitte drags Ginger aside. Ginger notes Brigitte's hand squeezing her arm with a dangerous look.
Twenty minutes ago you coulda killed somebody. Is this really a good time to start dating? I don't think so. Ginger shakes Brigitte's hand off.
Well, I do.
Why?
Why?! Look, grow up a little an' maybe you'll get it
What.
Forget it, I'm goin'. I'll draw ya a picture later, 'kay? Ginger takes Jason's hand and pulls him off to the exit. Jason gives Brigitte SUCH a smug look over his shoulder. Brigitte stands alone in the hall, gaping after them.
When Henry renovated the basement, to build our room? I was like ten an, in the way an, shit. Well, he rammed iue with this beam, right in my stomach. Accidentally. Brigitte wanders over the emptying school. lot. She looks small and alone. She looks disoriented.
But all the air came outta my lungs at once an, I kept tryin' to breathe but I couldn't. I forgot all about that. Till like right now. Brigitte consults the hygiene calendar. Ginger's ending the third week of checked-off days. A special note on today's date asks DO YOU HAVE PMS?
Ouch! whoa. Can't believe you never had a boyfriend... Ginger licks his blood from her own lips and freezes dead cold. Jason dives back at her for more. Ginger looks both aroused and unnerved by her arousal. Ginger's stomach growls. Ginger pushes Jason off of her.
I have to go. It's getting late.
It's only six o'clock. Jason presses himself on her again. Ginger shoves him off, hard.
1-have-to-go.
Oh. Now you get all moody on me?
Hey_ You got no idea.
Chicks, yer all the same! Ginger stops in her tracks. She shakes her head and continues away.
Cock tease!
Hi!
Brigitte? Tell your sister to turn that stereo down!
 Stop screaming or I'll rip your permed head right off you neck. An' ya know what? I can do that. Now open wide Ginger force-feeds Trina something on a spoon. Trina screams with her mouth full, trying to spit it back out. Ginger offers Trina a glass of milk.
Chaser? No?
Ginger WHAT are you doing-! Ginger grins and shows Bee a bowl of crushed glass and tacks.
Jus' like you said, Bee! S' perfect! Brigitte grabs the bowl away: glass shards and tacks rain around them.
Are you crazy?!
Hey! I'm Join' this for you! As the sisters argue, Trina rocks the chair back and forth, trying to free herself.
Yer still burnt over Jason!
You sayin' I'm stupid?!
I'm sayin' she? Will tell on you! This is someone who will tell! Trina throws herself forward again and her toes connect firmly with the floor - just as her temple connects with a sickening CRACK on the sharp corner of the desk. The milk glass dumps on top of her.
Ha-ha. Ginger grabs her own right arm (most damaged by the original attack) and shudders with pain.
Ow. Ow. Owchee-wow-ow. Brigitte takes Trina in from head to toe. Brigitte checks Trina for a pulse. Brigitte snaps her hand back as though it were burned. A tremor wracks Brigitte's body and she convulses. Brigitte runs to the bathroom. OFF SCREEN, Brigitte throws up. Meanwhile Ginger raises her afflicted hand. The hand is nowsomething clearly on the way to being a wolfen paw. The nails are black, curling claws. Oblivious, Brigitte climbs back into bed and covers her face with a pillow.
My life is basically over.
Bee. ..BEE! Awestruck, they both watch as Ginger extends and retracts her: new set of claws. There is a knock at the door. The girls look at one another in mute horror. Ginger addresses the door.
What!
Are you two fighting?!
-- No!
come on then. Dinner's ready. Brigitte and Ginger hop up and down in a brief freak fit.
Coming!
The gynecologist called. Pamela grasps Ginger's gnarly arm and squeezes it through her sleeve. Brigitte and Ginger look at Pamela's hand.
There's something wrong, Ginger. He wants to do an ultra-sound!
Pamela, don't scare her. How could the cells not be human cells? we'll send you to somebody else.
I'm sure your father's right. I'm just upset... How are you feeling, do you feel. all right?
Um. sure. Fine.
 No unusual discharge or anything like that? Henry, Brigitte and Ginger groan.
I worry, all right? I've made another appointment with a new doctor. Early next month was the earliest he could see you. okay?
okay. They all begin eating in silence. Except Brigitte who gags as Henry squirts ketchup all over his stew.
Grass and dirt spray out of the playhouse. Ginger is digging up the ground inside doggie style. She emerges, shaking the turf out of her new paw. They struggle to get Trina inside, but she's already too stiff to bend up.
Told you.
Rigor mortis. Knew we shoulda skipped dinner.
Can we do it my way now? Brigitte hesitates, her anxieties rising.
She won't fit unless I
I din't kill her!
But were you gonna? There is a long pause. Ginger tries to laugh it off with,
No. I'm not doing people. No. Brigitte takes a deep breath, nodding. She acts belief.
'Kay. .Hurry up. Ginger drags a section of the body into the playhouse with her. Disgusting gnashing and tearing, bones snapping and other sounds of devouring are heard from within. Brigitte keeps watch. Tears appear in her eyes. The body is dragged another foot into the playhouse. Ginger is eating Trina to make her fit in the grave.
Trina was dead. Trina was dinner. This was BAD.An'I kept wonderin' what Sam was doin' right then. I couldn't help it, he jus' kept poppin' into my head, like.
What Ginger couldn't finish we froze, 'cause the less we left for whoever would find Trina, the better. Watch a lot of crime TV, so. Brigitte's sizing Ginger up behind her back. Ginger finishes loading the freezer. Brigitte drops the lid.
What:cha Join' ? Brigitte nearly jumps into orbit, slamming her book shut as Ginger appears over her shoulder.
Hm. Big Book of Monsters, hunh. Thought they were useless.
Ginger rolls out of bed, steps over Brigitte and stumbles to the bathroom. Ginger steps on tacks and doesn't even react.
Man, I'm not getting enough sleep. Ginger closes the bathroom door. Brigitte leaps to the door, looping one end of a noosed extension cord around the handle. The other end is tied to the door handle of the bedroom door. Brigitte checks to ensure the latter is bolted shut.
The fuck -? Beef Brigitte watches the vibrating length of cord hold the door firmly in place. Ginger bangs hard on the door.
Ginger, don't be pissed...
Open the fuckin' door you feeb.
No! Ginger pounds on the door with great violence.
We have to stop it Ginge'. If we can. I`ll be back before dark. Brigitte tears the page with the plant out of her book and leaves by the window.
Told Pammy Ginger wasn't feeling well. Just to get her checkin' regular on. her, keep the pressure on Ginger to be cool.
Brigitte smoothes her hair, takes a deep breath, and over- acts innocent as she walks up.
It's in your best interests to be cooperative.
My lawyer's co-operative, I just know my rights. I don't know where she is, I'm very concerned. That's it, unless you got a warrant. She ends up backing into a COP behind some palms.
Shhh-it! I mean, sorry.
 You can see I got customers, so if that's all.
Okay. Sure. For now. The cop gives Sam a final Dirty Harry squint and leaves. Sam collects himself with difficulty. So does Brigitte.
if you skipped school lookin' to score, I don't keep nothin' here at work, sweetheart.
I din't. I mean I skipped, but-/
Hey. From Mccardy's van, right? You know my girlfriend? Trina Sinclair?
Rinda.
You seen her today?
Not today...
Fuck. She's missing.
Oh. S-sorry.
Yeah, well. Cops think I know where she is. I don't. Sam looks Brigitte right in the eye. Brigitte is caught up in him for a second.
Sorry, what do you care right? What do you need.
Um. Lookin' for this. She holds out the torn page. Sam takes it.
Aconitum lycoctonum? Sorry. Brigitte yanks her own hair hard. Sam smiles.
Tryin' to kill somebody?  Well, you know it's poisonous, right? Wolfs bane? Deadly. Be like stocking hemlock an, shit.
No, I thought it did something else. Doesn't matter.
Anyways they're perennials - only flowers in spring. Brigitte turns to leave, hot with frustration, huinilliation. Sam watches her stamp toward the door.
Hey. Ranunculaceae come in about a hundred species. I've gotta cousin, monkshood. Not so toxic. If you're interested.
Don't know if it'd help.
S'called monkshood 'cause people used to think it kept 'em pure from dirty thoughts. Seriously.
This is awful. but the whole time I was with him there? I din't even think how I'd just put pieces of his girlfriend in the deep freeze, like, at all.
Once through, she snaps and clicks her distended bones back in place. She gasps for breath. Her face is distorted with murderous fury. There is a knock on the bedroom door.
Ginger, feeling any better? Ginger climbs noiselessly out of the window.
Ginger? You sleeping?...God, I hate this lock, I know it's- privacy but what if you were in trouble in there for god's sake?
The book said dry it out before using it. I figured I'd keep Ginger locked up - feeding her Trina - till it was ready. she hangs the monkshood upside down in the locker. The buzzer goes as she slams the door shut.
Fitzgerald. Tardy! My office
Ginger faces him with a dreadful expression.
If any of you have seen Trina please let us know. She went for a run this morning and has not returned or contacted her family or friends...
Sit down, Ginger.
I can't stay.
I said, sit.
An' I said ./
 You are expelled. This is not your personal playground, this is a school.
Oh dear.
 Hello, main office? This is Mrs. Fitzgerald. would you page my daughter Brigitte please? I'm waiting to meet her in the guidance office. Thank you so much.
Would Brigitte Fitzgerald please report to guidance. Brigitte Fitzgerald. Brigitte freezes. The cop, the teacher, the whole class look at her. Brigitte scoops up her stuff.
Don't ever fuck with me like that again.
You .got out. Brigitte gapes at all the blood. Ginger is very agitated.
He asked for it. Was gonna expel me. So. Backing away, Brigitte trips over Mr. Wayne's foot sticking out from under the desk.
What do we do, Bee? What do we do?
C'mon we need a fuckin' plan here! The school bell goes off. Brigitte snaps out of her daze, reaches up and hits the light switch off. They now sit in virtual darkness.
Last bell. wait till everyone goes. We'll stuff him someplace. Clean this up. I guess. The sound of the full halls around them seems very loud now.
Bee, gotta a smoke? Brigitte hands her a smoke.
Sorry about this.
Whatever.
Don't be mad, ' kay?
I'm not mad.
Stay here. Lock the door. I'll knock once. Ginger nods. Brigitte slips out and creeps down the corridor. Ginger shuts the door. Then Ginger whips it open again.
Bee?
Thanks. Brigitte blinks at her, then continues to skulk away. The office door shuts and the lock locking reverbs after her.
She looks up at a loose ceiling panel. She jumps a few times trying to reach it. Too high. She gets an idea. Brigitte jogs past the sign directing us to gym.
Ginger breaks the fire extinguisher out of it's case and unleashes foam into the halls.
Move!
STOP IT! Just stop. Enough, Ginger. Please. Please. Ginger throws the canister any way, forcing Brigitte to dive out of the way. SMASH! Glass rains down over. Brigitte. Brigitte lifts her head in time to see Ginger burn down the hall looking for more mischief. Brigitte curls into a fetal position, burying her face in her lap and rocks herself. Brigitte sobs. OFF-SCREEN we hear Ginger cont.inuing her ram a e else where in the school. Brigitte wanders up to the janitor's cart, looking like a plane crash survivor - dazed and wretched. Brigitte picks up a bottle of cleaning fluid. She sniffs it. She closes her eyes and tips it back. She washes it around in her mouth and lifts her chin to swallow. She spews it into the air, the taste making her heave instinctively. she dry heaves a couple of times. She throws the bottle at the wall.
Well, well well..
The fair sisters Fitzgerald.
Hey. How's it goin'?
You tell me. Tim cracks the door and takes a look inside.
Holy shit - they trashed the place! The guys gawk: they are very impressed.
Who--oooaa. Fuck, unbelievable!
Ginger, I had no idea.
What can I say. I had an urgo.
Cool. But. This is ya know, uh, a bit of a problem. What's gonna happen when they start lookin' for the ah, people responsible? Brigitte glares at Ginger.
You won't tell.
Oh I might.
No you won't.
Ginger -?
Shut up. Shut up.  How ' bout a deal.
Have to be sweet.
You keep our lil' secret and I do you. All a' you. Brigitte slumps against the wall.
Jason gets the eager nod from his gang.
Okay, let's go.
Not now - I'm a mess. We're (making this up as she goes) having a Halloween party at. our place, Friday night. We'll do it then.
Yeah, right Saturday. You'll ditch.
I won't ditch. But you guys say a word about this to any one, - and there's no action. So it's up to you. You stay quiet, you score. You don't - phhtt - nice knowin' ya.
Deal. He extends his hand to shake on it. Linger shakes it awkwardly with her good hand. Brigitte thumps her head against the wall.
C'mon Bee...
Shut up, leave me alone!
It's not that big a deal.
How can you say that! Two people are dead because of you. Us.
They pissed me off. Brigitte opens the bathroom door.
Oh. Then they we asking for it? What about Jason an' them? Gonna kill 'em all when yer done, Ginger? 'Cause you have to take yer clothes OFF for that shit, they wanna SEE yer BODY for that shit, you gonna let like five guys live to tell how they fucked the Beast a' Bailey Downs? That could annoy you too! Ginger prods a claw into Brigitte's chest, pinning her in place.
Think yer sooo smart? I think yer sooo jealous.
Yeah, I'm jealous yer turning into a nympho. I'm so jealous yer killing people who did never did nothing to you. Yeah Ginger. Sure.
Oh, wow.
What.
I'm sorry, but...! Brigitte writhes in pain as Ginger's claw slices in deeper.
Ginger?! This is me. Ginger retracts the claw, and Brigitte grabs the wound.
Ginger hurls Brigitte against the wall. Ginger throws herself on top of Brigitte. Ginger raises her killing claw to Bri g.iLt.e' s neck.
Who needs you? Brigitte is helpless and looks terrified. Ginger's face is contorted with intensity, with madness. Ginger's drooling. A drip of gob drops onto Brigitte's face.
(very small,
Ginger... Ginger lifts Brigitte by the shirt-front and searches her eyes. Ginger drops Brigitte to the floor and grabs her coat. Brigitte grabs Ginger's leg.
Don't, please! Brigitte struggles to hang on, to rise from the floor; Ginger's really hurt her.
Maybe we can stop it! Lemme try! Ginger kicks free.
An' spoil my fun? I'll skin you alive first. Brigitte struggles to a point between Ginger and the window.
No, you wake up! Nobody'll live to catch me. Yer a two-faced lil' chicken shit? Your problem, Brigitte. I don't need ya. I don't WANTCHA! So stay away from me or I'll kill you I swear I'll have you for breakfast. Brigitte backs out of Ginger's way. Ginger steps up i.o the window and climbs through. Brigitte rubs her throat, trying hard to keep breathing. Brigitte dashes to her own bed and drags an Adidas gym bag from under it. Brigitte starts grabbing clothes off the floor and jamming them into the bag.
I was like, okay. Fuck you too. She'd be sorry. And I'd be like, I dunno - somewheres' totally else goin' not my problem. Right.
She peers through the slats. She sees the playhouse, lit up like a Christmas tree. She sees gloved hands and police uniforms. Then sliding past, the long - almost endless - shape on a stretcher being drawn out of the playhouse: they've found Trina's body. The bus appears, approaching from way down the road.
The bus is indicating, slowing to pull over. Brigitte opens her eyes. The bus is almost here. Brigitte grips her Adidas bag.
But you can't break up with blood. You can't divorce yer sister. You jus' can't. The bus passes, obscuring Brigitte from view as its body fills frame. when its tail lights pass, Brigitte is far down the street, running like a champion in the direction she came from.
I'd get the monkshood from my locker at school the next morning. Brigitte creeps to the bathroom and snaps the light on. Empty.
I'd find Ginger, I'd find out if the stuff even worked. Brigitte locks the window shut. She locks the bedroom door and pushes a bureau of drawers in front of it.
I could deal with whatever, as long as I tried. If it was the last thing she ever saw me do, it was gonna be me goin' fer somethin' by myself. The real Ginger woulda dug that large. Brigitte turns on the bedside lamp and fishes a baseball bat out of the closet.
I would try to save my sister when the sun came up. You know, if the sun came up. Brigitte climbs into bed, snuggling the bat in with her. She lights a smoke. She finds the feminine hygiene calendar on the bedside table next to the photo of the girls as kids at Halloween, taken many years before. The calendar tells us it is about to be Friday. Friday is the full moon. Friday is Halloween.
Ginger Fitzgerald is such a slut./No kidding./The bitch.
You hear about Trina Sinclair?/Dug her up in somebody's back yard!/oh that's so sad!/ Poor Trina, Ga-awd! As Brigitte gets closer to the building, she finds police cars and cops at the main entrance.
Shit. PRINCIPAL FARDOR is speaking with the RCMP constable who has been visiting classes. Fardor holds a hanky over his face.
That stench near the staff offices, what is that you think? Brigitte hedges up the steps toward the door.
I couldn't say, sir. Now is there anyone you suggest we talk to? Anyone with something against the school? Brigitte slips past the two men.
For god's sake look around you. I got 350 angry young people bored blind.Helluva day for my goddamn cleaning staff to be late ... . IIEY! Brigitte stops at the threshold.
The hell you goin'?
Find your homeroom and wait. School's outta bounds until we call you in. Get! Brigitte backs down the steps, looking like she just took a good slap. She turns to confront the mass confusion around her. Brigitte spots Ginger dancing on the roof of a car in the lot now, surrounded by boys. Brigitte spots Sam's truck near-by.
Hey. Wolfs bane. Wanna drink? Brigitte stops and turns to face him. Sam dries his face on his sleeve and pops his passenger door. Brigitte looks around and slides in. Ginger is watching Brigitte out of the corner of her eye.
I showed up to see Trina? But she's I'm goin' strange in the head. Brigitte doesn't know what to say, so she offers his a smoke. He takes it.
Why? Why would ya do a thing like that? Brigitte examine his. face for an implication. There isn't one.
What's unny is I dumped her that night. Feel bad about it now. Truth is, she was a pain in the ass. I sound like a jerk, right.
No.
Really? Yeah well, while she was - disappearin', I'm off have a time at the Highway Home with my buddy Georgio. Drinkin', dealin' - an, now she's Sam is over-come again. Brigitte raises a hand to touch him, chickens out, and then scores on the second attempt. He rolls right into her arms.
Sorry, this is strange. I don't even ...Last time I saw her she was so mad at me. An' we did have some times, we did. Makes me sick what her last thought a' me musta been though. Their eyes meet, their faces are inches apart. Brigitte kisses him, very softly and very quickly and then pulls out. Sam looks shocked. Brigitte looks more shocked.
I'm really, um. Sam leans in and kisses her right back. Better. Longer.
Shit. Sorry. Kinda freaked. You know? I shouldn't, well.
Yeah. Yeah.
But that was really nice.
Oh. 'Kay. Good. They sit staring straight ahead a moment. A cop ahead double- takes them, and reaches into his car for the radio mic.
You wanna lil' dube or somethin'? Listenin' to me go on like a loser-What's yet- name?
Brigitte. Fitzgerald. No, that's okay. I need more monkshood...
Yes! Dirty thoughts! oh. I been drinkin'. Should not drive. Right, Brr-igitte? Brigitte drags her hands over her face with extreme anxiety.
Oh, right. OK. Ur.
Ginger's yer sister right? Sam grimaces as Brigitte nods.
Why?
Oh, rumors - say she's doin' all these guys at some party. Goias' around she's a big time ho', that kinder thing. Hey. Don't worry about it. Nobody mentioned you. Ginger's most maniacal laugh drifts over to them. Brigitte sees her dancing sexily on the roof of a car with a whole crowd of leering boys.
C'mon Ginger! Take it off!
You wish!
Hey Ginger? Watcha doin' later? Can we come to yer bash?! Ginger stops dancing. Anger floods her face.
You know about that?
Sure, everybody knows! Can I bring my cousin?
Like to see ya again. Can I come to yer party too?
sh-sure. Sorry. I gotta - Ginger, so. Brigitte slips out of the truck as they stare at one another with that look you get when you're scared because you just kissed someone you really, really like.
.Brigitte makes her way toward Ginger.
fie was jus' drunk, I'm thinkin'. I mean he prob'ly din't mean it. Whatever. Beyond Sam's truck, behind Brigitte, the two new cruisers lurch to a stop. Cops approach Sam's vehicle with extreme caution. Brigitte arrives at the car with Ginger as,
All a' you guys?! My house! Tonight!  I wanna party with everybody. we'll do it till you drop.
The crowd applauds. Brigitte stares at Ginger like she's watching a cruise missile coming in. Ginger notices Brigitte watching her. Ginger pretends she doesn't see her.
Ginger was gonna kill every one of l em. A commotion behind them causes everyone to turn. Sam is being dragged from his truck by the cops. He is flung face-first onto the hood and hand-cuffed.
Sam McDonald? You're under arrest for the murder of Trina Sinclair. Brigitte physically fights with herself not to yell out. She runs a few steps toward Sam. Brigitte looks back at Ginger, who drills her with an evil warning glare. The cops shove Sam into the back of a cruiser. They roar off. Brigitte stands alone, apart from the crowd. The cruisers' flashing lights disappear down the street. Brigitte turns to face Ginger, mustering her own first menacing look. Ginger accepts a cigarette offered by one of her boys.
They closed the school that day. So I never got to my locker. So I never got the monkshood. I thought, this is it. I fucked up.
Now just remember, no boys in you bedroom during this party. Your room is off limits. Ginger are you sure that arm's not sprained, or worse?
Bruise. Lacrosse.
Mm Henry when'd you get this new meat from Tinny's? Quite nice. Brigitte and Ginger exchange a look.
I haven't been to Tinny's.
Then where's all the packs marked "t" come from -? Brigitte spits out her food.
I be excused?
911, do you need fire, ambulance or police, please.
(speaking very
Sam McDonald is not the Beast of Bailey Downs. He was at the Highway Home Motel when Trina Sinclair was killed. Sam didn't do it.
In case this was the last thing I'd do. I wanned Sam out of it. Sam shouldn't suffer.
That Sinclair girl was found at the Bernstein's, can you believe it?
What, last night? I didn't hear a thing! Never going to have these done in time. Henry help. Pamela is feverishly creating little straw witches and such party decorations. She has a se]ecl.i.on of dried flowers, wheat etc on the table before her.
Brigitte, honey we're thrilled you two are making friends. But next time you two do something like this give Mummy a little more notice, will you? Hate having to scramble. Brigitte slides into her regular chair and props her hands on her wrists in an attitude of complete distraction.
What's your sister up to? Brigitte looks at Henry as he works on a little witch.
She said she had a lot of work to do on her costume. Should we dress up, you think? Henry grimaces. He sifts through the dried plants before them. Brigitte double-takes the pile.
oh, Henry. You're no fun at all.
What is this stuff?
Just weeds, old cuttings from the yard.
No, THIS stuff. Brigitte plucks out a handful of dried plant with tiny purple flowers.
Oh, I had that around the dahlias. Man at the greenhouse said it'd keep the cats out. Seemed to do the job. It's got a funny name - nun's robe, priest hat, something
Monkshood.
That's right. Do we have a budding botanist in the family?!
Pun intended. Pamela giggles as does Henry. Brigitte grabs a fistful of monkshood and races for the door.
Hey, we need that! Brigitte! But Brigitte is gone.
That was my accent colour!
Hey. Must be the place, right? Brigitte sneers at him. He holds a half-gone bottle of schnapps, a dress shirt and his Good Jeans on. The toilet flushes in the john. Brigitte knocks on the door.
McCardy's here. The bathroom door unlocks but. remains closed.
Git in here an, gimme a hand. Brigitte casts an uncertain look at Jason.
C'mon ladies, there's six other guys sitting in the shrub waiting. Brigitte's face darkens. She slips into the bathroom and shuts the door.
Do you think some people deserve to die?
Don't say a fuckin' word. Ginger lowers the towel she's wearing enough to show the bump on her butt is now a twitching tail. Brigitte gasps.
Take this gauze and tie it flat.
Ginger, you can't
Brigitte takes the roll of gauze. She grabs the tail between her fingers and coils it up with utter disgust. Brigitte's hands tremble.
Now get outta my life. Brigitte grits her teeth.
I gotta get ready for the party.
Then wait here till I'm done.
What, through all fifty a' them?
Oh, don't tempt me. Ginger takes a deep breath before she opens the bathroom door. Her breath is ragged. She smoothes her hair and chews her lip. She's nervous. Ginger opens the door and closes it behind her.
It's really dark in here.
I'm shy. Lay down. Brigitte puts the toilet seat down and sits on it. Brigitte lights a smoke. Brigitte withdraws the monkshood from under her shirt and has a good scratch where it was itching her. OFF-SCREEN are the sounds of slurp kisses and Jason's moans. A fly unzips. Clothes fall with soft plunks to the floor. Bed springs creak. Plastic condom wrappers crinkle and then the SNAP-WHAP of one being fitted on pretty roughly. Somewhere above them the door bell starts ringing. From a vanity cupboard she pulls a Zombie face-painting kit and sets it next to the monkshood.
 Notice any girls? Pamela shrugs.
Brigitte leans against the wall watching the party and looking at her watch.
In English I heard about this chick who used a man's name to get her books read. She went by George but she was really Mary Ann? Goes, "It's never too late to be what you might have been." I was jus' there thinkin', is that true? Was it too late to be an unsolved Mystery? Alls I had to do was walk away...
Brigitte F.! Brigitte looks up to see a cheap plastic Frankenstein mask looking down at her. Its owner flips it up: it's Sam. Brigitte's eyes snap wide open in shock.
They let me go. No evidence: someone called in this tip.
So I decided to stay.
Hey, you gotta get outta here -/ Ginger emerges from the bedroom like a reigning diva, and the room stops dead. Brigitte drops her glass of punch. Ginger has come out as herself, as an almost full-blown werewolf. She wears a Lill Red Riding Hood cape jobbie and a plastic mask. She's the best looking monster you ever laid eyes on. Down her belly she has six perfect nipples showing and everything. The room bursts into a_cheerinq round of applause.
 Told you. She's a arts-type, for chrissakes, look at that.
She's very good, isn't she?
 Wow, yer sister's gone to town.
Yeah, she's gone all right. Hey. can you do me a favor?
Sure.
Can you give somethin' to Ginger for me? Jus' - we're Navin' a fight, but I got this thing for her.
Yeah, what. Brigitte shows him what appears to be a joint. Sam takes it.
Oh, okay.
Gonna miss me Bee F.? Brigitte smiles, embarrassed and freaking at the exact same time.
Be right back.
Ginger glances at Brigitte, who tries to pretend she's not watching. when Brigitte checks again, Ginger is leading Sam by the hand toward her bedroom. Sam looks over his shoulder and lifts a finger - one second - back at Brigitte. The bedroom door shuts behind them. Brigitte leaps toward the bedroom. Someone catches her arm and holds her back.
one minute young lady, I could use a little help here.
I have to get two more veggie trays down those stairs. I think your sister' 11 be fine for two minutes. Pamela is already marching Brigitte up the stairs. Brigitte strains to get back. Looking between her mother and her closed bedroom door, desperately.
All these boys came to see you two, least you can do is stop hiding in your room. Honestly, you act like someone'd forced this party down your throat. Now go be nice. Pamela stands between Brigitte and the bedroom door, her arms folded.
Mother. You don't understand.
Yes--I do. I was shy too at your age. Mingle.
okay, cut it out now.
This dope's fucked. Makin' me blaarrggh. C'mon. I'll do ya.
No thanks. Told yer sister I'd be right back.
What's up your ass?!
Don't get mean, s'nothin' personal. I happen to think Brigitte's pretty cool. and -/
Leave my baby sister alone. Do me, don't hurt her.
I won't hurt her. Now be a good girl and finish up your joint.
oh. Well fuck you. Ginger takes a big toke as she paces between Sam and the door. Suddenly she's coughing uncontrollably, rubbing her eyes, wailing in pain.
Burning! What is this?! Sam makes a move toward her and Ginger blindly lashes out at him. Ginger hurls Sam into the bed. Sam's flight path knocks the mattress askew: dozens and dozens of dog collars pour out over him. Sam fingers one in particular.
Morely -?!
Something was definitely fucked. Brigitte eyes Pamela, who is slowly being distracted by horny young men who will now dance with anybody, even Pamela.
Do you think this is a faggy costume for a guy? You can just say. I dunno I been gettin' funny looks. What, like we aren't advanced enough that a guy can show up completely in the spirit of the thing with an udder, an' not get treated like a freakin' fruit? Brigitte looks at her watch. Pamela is dragged off into the throng by a band of juveniles singing Do The Hustle. Brigitte makes her move at last.
snob. Brigitte makes a badly-faked would-be casual bee-line for their bedroom door. Brigitte wiggles the knob. It's locked.
You bitch! Brigitte discovers Ginger sitting in the tub floor under the running shower, weeping. Her eyes are swollen. Ginger is now covered in coarse hair. The water around her is full of blood. There is a kitchen knife next to her. Ginger's stoned numb on the monkshood dose. She's groggy and weak.
Oh no. Oh no. Fuck, fuck! Ginger doesn't move. Ginger looks so pathetic, it's heart- breaking. Brigitte snatches the knife away and shuts off the water.
Nobody'll want me now any ways. Sc. Brigitte takes in the cut, the rest of the monstrosity her sister has become.
I don't wanna do this any more. Brigitte yanks Ginger out of the tub and grabs a towel, frantic.
Press this on the cut! Ginger! Move, c'mon!
I missed you Bee. I'm sorry. Brigitte searches Ginger's face.
Ginge'? That you in there? Ginger cracks an uncertain, pained smile. Brigitte does too, an exact replica, in fact.
Ya feeb. Brigitte gently turns Ginger around to try and deal with her tail. Ginger is woozy and weak from blood loss.
okay. I can't clean this one up. We have to go. Like Go, go. Can you do it?
I'm so woozy. Brigitte glances out into the bedroom.
Um. Ever bite something you din't kill?
No. (misinterpreting the question - hopeful) Wanna be one with me?
Ah. No. Sam? Isn't dead.
Oooh nooo.
Don't worry. Keep pressing. T'll be right back.
Sam is fingering his wounds, half-conscious, drooling bile and blood. Brigitte  looms up behind him with her baseball bat. She fishes in his pants' pocket and withdraws a set of keys.
Hey. Sorry. I really did think you were. Like. Not bad. So you know, whatever. Any ways. I'm really sorry - I have to. Sam moans as his good eye rolls up at her. Brigitte blinks away tears and looks away, collecting herself. Brigitte raises the bat over her head and swings it down as
Girls? You in there? You're not being very sociable... There's no answer. She tries the knob, and is surprised to find it unlocked. She opens the door. She turns on the lights. Pamela takes in the bloody muck everywhere. The room is deserted. No Sam. No sisters Fitzgerald. Just gore. Pamela swoons and drops like a deadweight to the floor. Henry rushes up, looking in over his wife's body. The boys in costume crowd in behind him.
Pamela, honey, it's just a prank, you know how they... (he fingers some
Holy mother of - it's warm. Where are my kids?!!
Sam McDonald?
Plans, plans arc good. 'Course I hardly had one. Adrenaline though, adrenaline is pretty speedy shit.
Ginger?! Don't eat the body okay? I got this idea, an' we'll need Sam. Brigitte floors it and the truck blasts down their cul du sac to the main road.
Fuck, fuck fuck, FUCK.
Ha! All rightie then. Brigitte drives on. What she cannot see behind her in the grate are the glimpses of Ginger in the flickering lights of the passing street lamps. Her final spurt of transformation is taking place: FLASH! Her face is filling in with fur. FLASH! Her eyes glow golden, yellow, wolfen. FLASH! Her face pulls into a wet snout. FLASH! A long pink tongue lolls out between glistening white fangs.
okay, Ginger? They'll think that Sam took us from our room, right? 'Cause of his record an, the arrest, right? We're gonna make this look like he did, any ways. He got us, maybe killed us, took our bodies to do some unspeakable thingy. But then? Sam killed himself. You follow? Ginger doesn't answer.
So boom, diversion. Meanwhile you an, me hit the highway. we can hitch, get you cleaned up. By the time the find out we weren't in Sam's clutches at all, we could be any wheres. Yeah? Whatcha think? Ginger doesn't answer.
It'll work. Brigitte puts the brake on but does not cut the engine.
Ginger? C'mon, we got move. Shove Sam down here. Brigitte climbs up into the truck, reaching for something on its floor. Brigitte f itids Sam's prone feet. An animal/Ginger launches out at her, knocking her back, out, clear of the truck. Ginger isn't Ginger any more - what we can glimpse in the darkness is an attack by a creature much like the one that bit Ginger. And it's attacking Brigitte. Brigitte flails, kicks and punches at it. She breaks free and clambers at the tool rack on the inside panel of the truck. She grabs a shovel as the creature comes snarling up at her.
Stop. I mean it. It lunges at her again and Brigitte clocks it. It slides, dazed, off the back of the truck to the ground.
Brigitte drags Sam's body into the front seat. She sets her Adidas bag on the gas pedal. She releases the brake. The truck rolls forward. off the top of the hill. Brigitte watches as it crashes down, down, rolling and twisting into the suburb below. It lands in a heap and bursts into flames.
Nice one. Brigitte returns to where It/Ginger was last seen on the ground. The shovel and blanket are there. A bloody pool trails off into the woods. Brigitte hefts the shovel warily, shoulders the blanket, and follows the wetness shining in the moonlight.
Fuck Ginger. Leave a fuckin' trail much? Could leave everybody a fuckin' map... Tense seconds pass as she searches through the scrub and trees, shovel ready. we can hear panting and growling.
I won't hurt you if you don't hurt me. 'Kay? Ginge'? 'Kay? Brigitte spots something ahead and lowers the shovel as she approaches it. It/Ginger cowers in the brush, collapsed. Her head and tail are bleeding. Brigitte drops to her knees nest to her sister, frantic with grief.
Oh no. Ginger. I didn't mean
It/Ginger is gasping, fading. Her eyes start rolling back in her head. Brigitte's hand is shaking as it reaches out but can't touch her. Ginger licks Brigitte's fingers, slowly. Brigitte buries her face in Ginger's ruff, moaning.
You can't, you can't, we're out. You can't, don't don't do this to me. Not now. Look, look it's all taken care of. we're Unsolved Mysteries!
We made it out. There was this road? An' the space between here and where ever. I did it. Brigitte opens the blanket. Ginger has returned to human form. Because Ginger is dead.
The semi's turn indicator comes on as it slows and veers to arrive before her. ROLL TAIL CREDITS as: Excerpts from an episode of the television program UNSOLVED MYSTERIES roll. It tells the story of the mysterious disappearance of two teenage girls - sisters - who disappeared under strange circumstances in the normally quiet suburb of Bailey Downs. Brigitte and Ginger LOOK-A-LIKES re-enact the summarized events of their flight from justice. The cops figured out their faked deaths, of course.. Henry and Pamela have reportedly denied comment. It is seen from the community's perspective as two delusional young women gone totally wrong, a grotesque tragedy of youth wasted by mental illness. No one can explain though the non-human blood trails leaving the scene of their last crime... At the segment's close and the credits roll. out, we see the traditional high school photos of Brigitte and Ginger.
