America has made my fortune.
I raised my daughter in the American fashion; I gave her freedom, but taught her never to dishonor her family.  She found a boy friend, not an Italian.  She went to the movies with him, stayed out late. Two months ago he took her for a drive, with another boy friend. They made her drink whiskey and then they tried to take advantage of her.  She resisted; she kept her honor.  So they beat her like an animal.  When I went to the hospital her nose was broken, her jaw was shattered and held together by wire, and she could not even weep because of the pain.
I went to the Police like a good American.  These two boys were arrested and brought to trial.  The judge sentenced them to three years in prison, and suspended the sentence.  Suspended sentence! They went free that very day.  I stood in the courtroom like a fool, and those bastards, they smiled at me.  Then I said to my wife, for Justice, we must go to The Godfather.
Bonasera, we know each other for years, but this is the first time you come to me for help.  I don't remember the last time you invited me to your house for coffee...even though our wives are friends.
What do you want of me?  I'll give you anything you want, but do what I ask!
And what is that Bonasera?
No.  You ask for too much.
I ask for Justice.
The Court gave you justice.
An eye for an eye!
But your daughter is still alive.
Then make them suffer as she suffers.  How much shall I pay you.
You never think to protect yourself with real friends.  You think it's enough to be an American.  All right, the Police protects you, there are Courts of Law, so you don't need a friend like me. But now you come to me and say Don Corleone, you must give me justice. And you don't ask in respect or friendship.  And you don't think to call me Godfather; instead you come to my house on the day my daughter is to be married and you ask me to do murder...for money.
America has been good to me...
Then take the justice from the judge, the bitter with the sweet, Bonasera.  But if you come to me with your friendship, your loyalty, then your enemies become my enemies, and then, believe me, they would fear you...
Be my friend.
Good.  From me you'll get Justice.
Godfather.
Some day, and that day may never come, I would like to call upon you to do me a service in return.
Where's Michael?
He'll be here Pop, it's still early.
Then the picture will wait for him.
Sandra, watch the kids.  They're running wild.
You watch yourself.
Paulie...wine...WINE.
You look terrif on the floor!
What are you, a dance judge?  Go do your job; take a walk around the neighborhood... see everything is okay.
Buddy, this is a private party.
Goddamn FBI...don't respect nothing.
...a fine boy from Sicily, captured by the American Army, and sent to New Jersey as a prisoner of war...
Nazorine, my friend, tell me what I can do.
Now that the war is over, Enzo, this boy is being repatriated to Italy.  And you see, Godfather... (he wrings his hands, unable to express himself) He...my daughter...they...
You want him to stay in this country.
Godfather, you understand everything.
Tom, what we need is an Act of Congress to allow Enzo to become a citizen.
 An Act of Congress!
 It will cost.
Is that all?  Godfather, thank you...  Oh, wait till you see the cake I made for your beautiful daughter!
Who do I give this job to?
Not to one of our paisans...give it to a Jew Congressman in another district.  Who else is on the list for today?
Francesco Nippi.  His nephew has been refused parole.  A bad case.
His father worked with you in the freight yards when you were young.
He's not on the list, but Luca Brasi wants to see you.
Is it necessary?
You understand him better than anyone.
I've never seen anything like it.
I told you I had a lot of relatives.
 Michael, what are those men doing?
They're waiting to see my father.
They're talking to themselves.
They're going to talk to my father, which means they're going to ask him for something, which means they better get it right.
Why do they bother him on a day like this?
Because they know that no Sicilian will refuse a request on his daughter's wedding day.
 Cut it out, Connie.
What do you think?  Twenty grand?
Who knows?  Maybe more.  Twenty, thirty grand in small bills cash in that silk purse.  Holy Toledo, if this was somebody else's wedding!
Is it true what they say about your husband, Sandra?
 Michael, that scarey guy...Is he a relative?
No.  His name is Luca Brasi.  You wouldn't like him.
 Who is he?
 You really want to know?
Yes.  Tell me.
You like spaghetti?
You know I love spaghetti.
Then eat your spaghetti and I'll tell you a Luca Brasi story.
Once upon a time, about fifteen years ago some people wanted to take over my father's olive oil business.  They had Al Capone send some men in from Chicago to kill my father, and they almost did.
Al Capone!
My Father sent Luca Brasi after them.  He tied the two Capone men hand and foot, and stuffed small bath towels into their mouths. Then he took an ax, and chopped one man's feet off...
Michael...
Then the legs at the knees...
Michael you're trying to scare me...
Then the thighs where they joined the torso.
Michael, I don't want to hear anymore...
Then Luca turned to the other man...
Michael, I love you.
...who out of sheer terror had swallowed the bath towel in his mouth and suffocated.
I never know when you're telling me the truth.
I told you you wouldn't like him.
He's coming over here!
Tom...Tom, I'd like you to meet Kay Adams.
 How do you do.
My brother, Tom Hagen.
Hello Kay.  Your father's inside, doing some business.  He's been asking for you.
Thanks Tom.
If he's your brother, why does he have a different name?
My brother Sonny found him living in the streets when he was a kid, so my father took him in.  He's a good lawyer.
Don Corleone...
 Don Corleone...I am honored, and grateful...that you invited me to your home...on the wedding day of your...daughter. May their first child...be a masculine child.  I pledge my never ending loyalty.  For your daughter's bridal purse.
Thank you, Luca, my most valued friend.
Let me leave you, Don Corleone.  I know you are busy.
I'm sure it's the most generous gift today.
The Senator called--apologized for not coming personally, but said you'd understand.  Also, some of the Judges...they've all sent gifts. And another call from Virgil Sollozzo.
The action is narcotics.  Sollozzo has contacts in Turkey for the poppy, in Sicily for the plants to process down to morphine or up to heroin.  Also he has access to this country.  He's coming to us for financial help, and some sort of immunity from the law.  For that we get a piece of the action, I couldn't find out how much. Sollozzo is vouched for by the Tattaglia family, and they may have a piece of the action.  They call Sollozzo the Turk. He's spent a lot of time in Turkey and is suppose to have a Turkish wife and kids.  He's suppose to be very quick with the knife, or was, when he was younger.  Only in matters of business and with some reasonable complaint.  Also he has an American wife and three children and he is a good family man.
He's his own boss, and very competent.
And with prison record.
Two terms; one in Italy, one in the United States.  He's known to the Government as a top narcotics man. That could be a plus for us; he could never get immunity to testify.
When did he call?
This morning.
On a day like this.  Consiglero, do you also have in your notes the the Turk made his living from Prostitution before the war, like the Tattaglias do now.  Write that down before you forget it.  The Turk will wait.
What that?  It sounds like Johnny.
It is Johnny.  He came all the way from California to be at the wedding.
Should I bring him in.
No.  Let the people enjoy him.  You see?  He is a good godson.
It's been two years.  He's probably in trouble again.
I didn't know your family knew Johnny Fontane.
Sure.
I used to come down to New York whenever he sang at the Capitol and scream my head off.
He's my father's godson; he owes him his whole career.
My Godson has come three thousand miles to do us honor and no one thinks to wet his throat.
I kept trying to call you after my divorce and Tom always said you were busy.  When I got the Wedding invitation I knew you weren't sore at me anymore, Godfather.
Can I do something for you still? You're not too rich, or too famous that I can't help you?
I'm not rich anymore, Godfather, and...my career, I'm almost washed up...
Tell Santino to come in with us. He should hear some things.
Sonny?
Sonnyeeeeeeee.
Sonny?  Sonny, you in there?
The old man wants you; Johnny's here...he's got a problem.
Okay.  One minute.
ACT LIKE A MAN!  By Christ in Heaven, is it possible you turned out no better than a Hollywood finocchio.
All right, Hollywood...Now tell me about this Hollywood Pezzonovanta who won't let you work.
He owns the studio.  Just a month ago he bought the movie rights to this book, a best seller.  And the main character is a guy just like me.  I wouldn't even have to act, just be myself.
You take care of your family?
Sure.
You look terrible.  I want you to eat well, to rest.  And spend time with your family.  And then, at the end of the month, this big shot will give you the part you want.
It's too late.  All the contracts have been signed, they're almost ready to shoot.
I'll make him an offer he can't refuse.
Now go back to the party and leave it to me.
When does my daughter leave with her bridegroom?
They'll cut the cake in a few minutes...leave right after that. Your new son-in-law, do we give him something important?
No, give him a living.  But never let him know the family's business. What else, Tom?
I've called the hospital; they've notified Consiglere Genco's family to come and wait.  He won't last out the night.
Genco will wait for me.  Santino, tell your brothers they will come with me to the hospital to see Genco.  Tell Fredo to drive the big car, and ask Johnny to come with us.
And Michael?
All my sons.  Tom, I want you to go to California tonight.  Make the arrangements. But don't leave until I come back from the hospital and speak to you. Understood?
Understood.
Will your girl friend get back to the city all right?
Tom said he'd take care of it.
What was this for?
For bravery.
And this?
For killing a man.
What miracles you do for strangers.
I fought for my country.  It was my choice.
And now, what do you choose to do?
I'm going to finish school.
Good.  When you are finished, come and talk to me.  I have hopes for you.
 Genco, I've brought my sons to pay their respects.  And look, even Johnny Fontane, all the way from Hollywood.
Godfather, Godfather, it's your daughter's wedding day, you cannot refuse me.  Cure me, you have the power.
I have no such power...but Genco, don't fear death.
 It's been arranged, then?
You blaspheme.  Resign yourself.
You need your old Consigliere.  Who will replace me?  Stay with me Godfather.  Help me meet death.  If he sees you, he will be frightened and leave me in peace.  You can say a word, pull a few strings, eh?  We'll outwit that bastard as we outwitted all those others.  Godfather, don't betray me.
Luca, I am worried about this man Sollozzo.  Find out what you can, through the Tattaglias.  Let them believe you could be tempted away from the Corleone Family, if the right offer was made.  Learn what he has under his fingernails...
It's me, Sonny.
Remember my new Consigliere, a lawyer with his briefcase can steal more than a hundred men with guns.
You should have told me your boss was Corleone, Tom, I had to check you out.  I thought you were just some third rate hustler Johnny was running in to bluff me.  Florence, thirteenth century. Decorated the garden of a king.
I'm going to show you something beautiful.
You like horses?  I like horses, I love 'em.  Beautiful, expensive Racehorses.
Khartoum...Kartoum...You are looking at six hundred thousand dollars on four hoofs.  I bet even Russian Czars never paid that kind of dough for a single horse.  But I'm not going to race him I'm going to put him out to Stud.
Mr. Corleone is Johnny's Godfather. That is very close, a very sacred religious relationship.
Okay, but just tell him this is one favor I can't give.  But he should try me again on anything else.
He never asks a second favor when he has been refused the first. Understood?
You smooth son of a bitch, let me lay it on the line for you, and your boss.  Johnny Fontane never gets that movie.  I don't care how many Dago, Guinea, wop Greaseball Goombahs come out of the woodwork!
I'm German-Irish.
Okay my Kraut-Mick friend, Johnny will never get that part because I hate that pinko punk and I'm going to run him out of the Movies.  And I'll tell you why.  He ruined one of Woltz Brothers' most valuable proteges.  For five years I had this girl under training; singing lessons!  Acting lessons!  Dancing lessons!  We spent hundreds of thousands of dollars--I was going to make her a star.  I'll be even more frank, just to show you that I'm not a hard-hearted man, that it wasn't all dollars and cents.  That girl was beautiful and young and innocent and she was the greatest piece of ass I've ever ad and I've had them all over the world.  Then Johnny comes along with that olive oil voice and guinea charm and she runs off.  She threw it all away to make me look ridiculous.  A MAN IN MY POSITION CANNOT AFFORD TO BE MADE TO LOOK RIDICULOUS!
My business is heroin, I have poppy fields, laboratories in Narseilles and Sicily, ready to go into production.  My importing methods are as safe as these things can be, about five per cent loss.  The risk is nothing, the profits enormous.
Why do you come to me?  Why do I deserve your generosity?
I need two million dollars in cash...more important, I need a friend who has people in high places; a friend who can guarantee that if one of my employees be arrested, they would get only light sentences.  Be my friend.
What percentages for my family?
Thirty per cent.  In the first year your share would be four million dollars; then it would go up.
And what is the percentage of the Tattaglia family?
My compliments.  I'll take care of them from my share.
So.  I receive 30 per cent just for finance and legal protection.  No worries about operations, is that what you tell me?
If you think two million dollars in cash is just finance, I congratulate you Don Corleone.
I said I would see you because I've heard you're a serious man, to be treated with respect...  But I'll say no to you.
I'll give you my reasons.  I have many, many friends in Politics. But they wouldn't be so friendly if my business was narcotics instead of gambling.  They think gambling is something like liquor, a harmless vice...and they think narcotics is dirty business.
No...how a man makes his living is none of my business.  But this proposition of yours is too risky. All the people in my family lived well the last ten years, I won't risk that out of greed.
Are you worried about security for your million?
No.
The Tattaglias will guarantee your investment also.
The Tattaglia family guarantees our investment?
Young people are greedy, and they have no manners.  They speak when they should listen.  But I have a sentimental weakness for my children, and I've spoiled them, as you see.  But Signor Sollozzo, my no is final.
Santino, never let anyone outside the family know what you are thinking.  I think your brain is going soft from all that comedy you play with that young girl.
What is this nonsense?
It's from Johnny.  It was announced this morning.  He's going to play the lead in the new Woltz Brothers film.
Send Johnny my congratulations.
We have something for your mother, for Sonny, we have the tie for Fredo and Tom Hagen gets the Reynolds pen...
And what do you want for Christmas?
Just you.
We'll have a quiet, civil ceremony at the City Hall, no big fuss, no family, just a couple of friends as witnesses.
What will your father say?
As long as I tell him beforehand he won't object.  He'll be hurt, but he won't object.
What time do they expect us?
For dinner.  Unless I call and tell them we're still in New Hampshire.
Michael.
Then we can have dinner, see a show, and spend one more night.
Operator.  Get me 
Michael, what are you doing?
Shhh, you be the long distance operator.  Here.
Hello...this is Long Distance.  I have a call from New Hampshire.  Mr. Michael Corleone.  One moment please.
Hello, Tom?  Michael.  Yeah... listen, we haven't left yet.  I'm driving down to the city with Kay tomorrow morning.  There's something important I want to tell the old man before Christmas.  Will he be home tomorrow night?
Sure.  Anything I can do for you.
No.  I guess I'll see you Christmas. Everyone's going to be out at Long Beach, right?
Right.
Michael called; he's not leaving New Hampshire until tomorrow morning.  I've got to go, I promised Theresa I'd pick up some toys for the kids.
Tell Paulie to get the car from the lot; I'll be ready to go home in a few minutes.
I'll have to get it myself; Paulie called in sick this morning.
That's the third time this month. I think maybe you'd better get a healthier bodyguard for me.  Tell Tom.
 Paulie's a good kid.  If he's sick, he's sick.  I don't mind getting the car.
Buon Watale, Don Corleone.
Merry Christmas. (handing the MANAGER an envelope)
 Don't be frightened.  I just want to talk to you.
 Get in; I want to talk to you.
I haven't got time.
Get in the car.  If I wanted to kill you you'd be dead already. Trust me.
Would you like me better if I were a nun?
No.
Would you like me better if I were Ingrid Bergman?
 Michael?
I'm thinking about it.
Michael...
No, I would not like you better if you were Ingrid Bergman.
 They don't say if he's dead or alive.
Fredo, Fredo!
Luca...I'm Bruno Tattaglia.
I know.
Do you know who I am?
You've been talking to the Tattaglias.  They thought we could do business.
I need somebody strong to protect my operation, physically.  I've heard you're not happy with your family, you might make a switch.
If the money is good enough.
On the first shipment, I can guarantee you fifty thousand dollars.
Yeah.
Do you recognize my voice?
I think so.  Detective squad?
Right.  Don't say my name, just listen.  Somebody shot your father outside his place fifteen minutes ago.
Is he alive?
I think so, but I can't get close enough.  There's a lot of blood. I'll try to find out more.
Find out anything you can...you got a Grand coming. 
Theresa, let me talk to Tom.  Not yet?  Have him call me as soon as he gets home.
Sonny?  Sonny, who is it?  What is it?
 They shot the old man.
Oh God...
Honey...don't worry.  Nothing else is going to happen.
 SONNY?
 You heard about your father?
Yeah.
The word is out in the streets that he's dead.
Where the hell was Paulie, why wasn't he with the Don?
Paulie's been a little sick all winter...he was home.
How many times did he stay home the last couple of months?
Maybe three, four times.  I always asked Freddie if he wanted another bodyguard, but he said no.  Things have been so smooth the last ten years...
Go get Paulie, I don't care how sick he is.  Pick him up yourself, and bring him to my father's house.
That's all?  Don't you want me to send some people over here?
No, just you and Paulie.
A couple of our people will come to stay here.  Do whatever they say; I'm going over to the main house. If you want me, use Pop's special phone.
Hello.
Santino Corleone?
Yeah.
We have Tom Hagen.  In about three hours he'll be released with our proposition.  Don't do anything until you've heard what he has to say.  You can only cause a lot of trouble.  What's done is done.  Don't lose that famous temper of yours.
 I'll wait.
Ma?  Ma, where are you.
Ma, I just got a call.  Pop's hurt...I don't know how bad.
 Santino?  Have they killed him?
 We don't know yet, Ma.
I'll get dressed.  In case we can see him...
Tessio...This is Santino Corleone. I want fifty reliable men out here.
I heard, Sonny...but what about Clemenza's regime?
I don't want to use Clemenza's people right now.  Understood?
Luca.
I know you're not in the muscle end of the family--so I don't want you to be afraid.  I want you to help the Corleones and I want you to help me.
Your boss is dead...
 Have some more.  We got him outside his office, just before I picked you up.  You have to make the peace between me and Santino.
Sonny was hot for my deal, right? You know it's the smart thing to do, too.  I want you to talk Sonny into it.
 Sonny will come after you with everything he's got.
That's going to be his first reaction.  You have to talk some sense into him.  The Tattaglia family stands behind me with all their people.  The other New York Families will go along with anything that prevents a full scale war.
The Don was slipping; in the old days I could never have gotten to him.  Now he's dead, nothing can bring him back.  Talk to Sonny, talk to the Caporegimes, Clemenza and Tessio...it's good business.
Even Sonny won't be able to call off Luca Brasi.
I'll worry about Luca.  You take care of Sonny and the other two kids.
I'll try...It's what the Don would want us to do.
 I don't like violence.  I'm a businessman, and blood is a big expense.
The old man is still alive.  Five bullets in his Sicilian hide and he's still alive. (he gives a fatalistic shrug) Bad luck for me, bad luck for you.
Who're you?
It's the Don's kid; take the car, I'll bring him inside.
Your mother's at the hospital with the old man: He's gonna pull through.
Thanks.
 You heard from Tom yet?
 C'mon.
Don't worry, Theresa; they just want to give Tom the proposition, then they're going to turn him loose.
I was worried when we couldn't get in touch with you in that hick town.
How's Mom?
Good.  She's been through it before. Me too.  You were too young to know about it.  You better wait outside; there're some things you shouldn't hear.
I can help you out...
Oh no you can't, the old man'd be sore as hell if I let you get mixed up in this.
Jesus Christ, he's my father, Sonny.
Theresa.
All right, Mikey...who do we have to hit, Clemenza or Paulie?
What?
One of them fingered the old man.
Clemenza?  No, I don't believe it.
You're right, kid, Clemenza is okay. It was Paulie.
How can you be sure?
On the three days Paulie was sick this month, he got calls from a payphone across from the old man's building.  We got people in the phone company.  Thank God it was Paulie...we'll need Clemenza bad.
Is it going to be all-out war, like last time?
Until the old man tells me different.
Then wait, Sonny.  Talk to Pop.
Sollozzo is a dead man, I don't care what it costs.  I don't care if we have to fight all the five families in New York.  The Tattaglia family's going to eat dirt.  I don't care if we all go down together.
 That's not how Pop would have played it.
I know I'm not the man he was.  But I'll tell you this and he'll tell you too.  When it comes to real action, I can operate as good as anybody short range.
 All right, Sonny.  All right.
Christ, if I could only contact Luca.
Is it like they say?  Is he that good?
If I plead before the Supreme Court, I'll never do better than I did tonight with that Turk.
Is the hospital covered?
The cops have it locked in and I got my people there visiting Pop all the time.  What about the hit list.
Too much, too far, too personal. The Don would consider this all purely a business dispute: Get rid of Sollozzo, and everything falls in line.  YOU don't have to go after the Tattaglias.
What about Luca?  Sollozzo didn't seem worried about Luca.  That worries me.
If Luca sold out we're in real trouble.
Has anyone been able to get in touch with him?
No, and I've been calling all night. Maybe he's shacked up.
Luca never sleeps over with a broad. He always goes home when he's through.  Mike, keep ringing Luca's number.
Keep trying every fifteen minutes. 
Tom, you're the Consigliere, what do we do if the old man dies?
Without your father's political contacts and personal influence, the Corleone family loses half its strength.  Without your father, the other New York families might wind up supporting Sollozzo, and the Tattaglias just to make sure there isn't a long destructive war.  The old days are over, this is 1946; nobody wants bloodshed anymore.  If your father dies...make the deal, Sonny.
 That's easy to say; it's not your father.
 I was as good a son to him as you or Mike.
Oh Christ Tom, I didn't mean it that way.
We're all tired...
OK, we sit tight until the old man can give us the lead.  But Tom, I want you to stay inside the Mall. You too, Mike, no chances.  Tessio, you hold your people in reserve, but have them nosing around the city.  The hospital is yours; I want it tight, fool-proof, 24 hours a day.
What is it?
I tol' you to stay put, Paulie...
The guy at the gate's outside...says there's a package...
Tessio, see what it is.
You want me to hang around?
Yeah.  Hang around.
Outside?
Outside.
Sure.
Clemenza.  You take care of Paulie. I don't ever want to see him again. Understood?
Understood.
Okay, now you can move your men into the Mall, replace Tessio's people.  Mike, tomorrow you take a couple of Clemenza's people and go to Luca's apartment and wait for him to show.  That crazy bastard might be going after Sollozzo right now if he's heard the news.
Maybe Mike shouldn't get mixed up in this so directly.  You know the old man doesn't want that.
OK forget it, just stay on the phone.
A Sicilian message: Luca Brasi sleeps with the fishes.
 Oh Christ...all over the floor.
The Godfather is next.
Nice.
Crazy Detroit delivered it with a wooden bumper.  They're going to send me the chrome bumpers in a couple months.  I waited two years for this car to come with wooden bumpers!
Today you make your bones on Paulie. You understand everything?
Sure.
.22 soft-nosed load.  Accurate up to five feet.
Rocco, sit on the other side.  A big guy like you blocks my rearview mirror.
Goddamn Sonny.  He's running scared. He's already thinking of going to the mattresses.  We have to find a place on the West Side.  Paulie, you know a good location?
I'll think about it.
 Drive while you thinking; I wanna get to the City this month!
Pay attention!
Good for ten men...
OK, go to Arthur Avenue; I'm suppose to call when I found somethin'.
You wait; I'll call.
He talked my ear off.  Want us to go back to Long Beach; have another job for us.  Rocco, you live in the City, can we drop you off?
Ah, I left my car at your place.
OK, then you gotta come back.
You think we'll go for that last place?
Maybe, or you gotta know now.
Holy cow, I don't gotta know nothing.
Paulie, pull over.  I gotta take a leak.
Leave the gun.
Mike.  Hey Mikey; telephone.
Some dame.
Hello.  Kay?
How is your father?
He'll be OK.
 I love you.
I LOVE YOU.
Yeah Kay, I'm here.
Can you say it?
Huh?
Tell me you love me.
I can't...
Please say it.
Look.  I'll see you tonight, OK?
OK. 
How come you don't tell that nice girl you love her...here, learn something... you may have to feed fifty guys some day.  You start with olive oil...fry some garlic, see.  And then fry some sausage...or meat balls if you like...then you throw in the tomatoes, the tomato paste...some basil; and a little red wine...that's my trick.
You take care of Paulie?
You won't see Paulie anymore.  He's sick for good this winter.
Where are you going?
To the city.
 Send some bodyguards.
I don't need them, Sonny.  I'm just going to see Pop in the hospital. Also, I got other things.
Sollozzo knows Mike's a civilian.
OK, but be careful.
Visiting hour ends at eight thirty. I'll just sit with him; I want to show respect.
Can I go to the hospital with you?
I don't think so.  You don't want to end up on page 3 of the Daily News.
My parents don't read the Daily News.  All right, if you think I shouldn't.  I can't believe the things the papers are printing. I'm sure most of it's not true.
I don't think so either.  I better go.
When will I see you again?
I want you to go back to New Hampshire...think things over.
When will I see you again?
Goodbye.
Goodbye.
Hello?  Hello?
What are you doing here?
You're not supposed to be here now.
I'm Michael Corleone--this is my father.  What happened to the detectives who were guarding him?
Oh your father just had too many visitors.  It interfered with the hospital service.  The police came and made them all leave just ten minutes ago.  But don't worry.  I look in on him.
You just stand here one minute...
Sonny...Sonny--Jesus Christ, I'm down at the hospital.  I came down late.  There's no one here.  None of Tessio's people--no detectives, no one.  The old man is completely unprotected.
All right, get him in a different room; lock the door from the inside. I'll have some men there inside of fifteen minutes.  Sit tight, and don't panic.
 I won't panic.
You cannot stay here...I'm sorry.
 You and I are going to move my father right now...to another room on another floor...Can you disconnect those tubes so we can wheel the bed out?
Absolutely not!  We have to get permission from the Doctor.
You've read about my father in the papers.  You've seen that no one's here to guard him.  Now I've just gotten word that men are coming to this hospital to kill him.  Believe me and help me.
 We don't have to disconnect them, we can wheel the stand with the bed.
Hurry, into there.
 Who is it?
Michael...do you remember me, Enzo, the baker's helper to Nazorine, now his son-in-law.
Enzo, get out of here.  There's going to be trouble.
If there...will be trouble...I stay with you, to help.  I owe it to the Godfather.
Go outside; stand in front...I'll be out in a minute.
 He's awake.
Pop...Pop, it's me Michael.  Shhhh, don't try to speak.  There are men who are coming to try to kill you. But I'm with you...I'm with you now...
Get rid of those and look like you've got a gun in your pocket.
Listen...
I thought I got all you guinea hoods locked up.  Who the hell are you and what are you doing here?
He's clean, Captain.
 What happened to the detectives who were supposed to be guarding my father?
 You punk-hood.  Who the hell are you to tell me my business.  I pulled them off.  I don't care how many Dago gangsters kill each other. I wouldn't lift a finger to keep your old man from getting knocked off.  Now get the hell out of here; get off this street you punk, and stay away from this hospital.
I'll stay until you put guards around my father's room.
Phil, lock this punk up.
The Kid's clean, Captain...He's a war hero, and he's never been mixed up in the rackets...
 Goddam it, I said lock him up.  Put the cuffs on him.
 How much is the Turk paying you to set my father up, Captain?
Christ, Sonny really means business.
How come all the new men?
We'll need them now.  After the hospital incident, Sonny got mad. We hit Bruno Tattaglia four o'clock this morning.
I've got a hundred button men on the streets twenty-four hours a day. If Sollozzo shows one hair on his ass he's dead.
Mikey, you look beautiful!
Cut it out.
The Turk wants to talk!  The nerve of that son of a bitch!  After he craps out last night he wants a meet.
Was there a definite proposal?
Sure, he wants us to send Mike to meet him to hear his proposition. The promise is the deal will be so good we can't refuse.
What about that Tattaglias?  What will they do about Bruno?
Part of the deal: Bruno cancels out what they did to my father.
We should hear what they have to say.
No, no Consiglere.  Not this time. No more meetings, no more discussions, no more Sollozzo tricks.  Give them one message: I WANT SOLLOZZO.  If not, it's all out war.  We go to the mattresses and we put all the button men out on the street.
The other families won't sit still for all out war.
Then THEY hand me Sollozzo.
Come ON Sonny, your father wouldn't want to hear this.  This is not a personal thing, this is Business.
And when they shot me father...
Yes, even the shooting of your father was business, not personal...
No no, no more advice on how to patch it up Tom.  You just help me win.  Understood?
I found out about this Captain McCluskey who broke Mike's jaw. He's definitely on Sollozzo's payroll, and for big money. McCluskey's agreed to be the Turk's bodyguard.  What you have to understand is that while Sollozzo is guarded like this, he's invulnerable.  Nobody has ever gunned down a New York Police Captain.  Never.  It would be disastrous.  All the five families would come after you Sonny; the Corleone family would be outcasts; even the old man's political protection would run for cover.  So just...take that into consideration.
 McCluskey can't stay with the Turk forever.  We'll wait.
We can't wait.  No matter what Sollozzo say about a deal, he's figuring out how to kill Pop.  You have to get Sollozzo now.
The kid's right.
What about McCluskey?
Let's say now that we have to kill McCluskey.  We'll clear that up through our Newspaper contacts later.
Go on Mike.
They want me to go to the conference with Sollozzo.  Set up the meeting for two days from now.  Sonny, get our informers to find out where the meeting will be held. Insist it has to be a public place: a bar or restaurant at the height of the dinner hour.  So I'll feel safe.  They'll check me when I meet them so I won't be able to carry a weapon; but Clemenza, figure out a way to have one planted there for me.  Then I'll kill them both.
You?  You, the high-class college kid.  You never wanted to get mixed up in the family business.  Now you wanta gun down a police Captain and the Turk just because you got slapped in the face.  You're taking it personal, it's just business and he's taking it personal.
 Sonny, it's all personal, and I learned it from him, the old man, the Godfather.  He took my joining the Marines personal.  I take Sollozzo trying to kill my father personal, and you know I'll kill them Sonny.
It's as cold as they come, impossible to trace.  Don't worry about prints Mike, I put a special tape on the trigger and butt.  Here. (he hands the gun to another pair of hands) Whatsamatter?  Trigger too tight.  I left it noisy, so it'll scare any pain-in-the-neck innocent bystander away.
Just let your hand drop to your side, and let the gun slip out. Everybody will still think you got it.  They'll be starin' at your face, see?  Then walk out of the place real fast, but don't run. Don't look anybody directly in the eye, but don't look away from them neither.  Hey, they'll be scared stiff o you, believe me.  Nobody's gonna bother with you.  Don't worry about nothing; you'd be surprised how good these things go.  O.K., put your hat on, let's see how you look.  Helps with identification.
Mostly it gives witnesses an excuse to change their identification when we make them see the light.  Then you take a long vacation and we catch the hell.
How bad will it be?
Probably all the other families will line up against us.  But, it's alright.  These things have to happen once every ten years or so...gets rid of the bad blood. You gotta stop 'em at the beginning. Like they shoulda stopped Hitler at Munich, they shoulda never let him get away with that, they were just asking for big trouble...
Why don't you stop living like a bum and get this place cleaned up.
What are you, inspecting the barracks? (SONNY sits up with his head in his hands) You ready?  Did Clemenza tell you be sure to drop the gun right away?
A million times.
Sollozzo and McCluskey are going to pick you up in an hour and a half on Times Square, under the big Camels sign.
We don't let Mike go until we have the hostage, Sonny.
It's okay...the hostage is outside playing pinochle with three of my men.
That could be a Tattaglia informer with the meeting place.
One of Tattaglia's people?
No.  Our informer in McCluskey's precinct.  Tonight at 8:00 he signed out for Louis' Restaurant in the Bronx.  Anyone know it.
Sure, I do.  It's perfect for us. A small family place with big booths where people can talk in private.  Good food.  Everybody minds their business.  Perfect. (he moves to the desk and makes a crude drawing) This is the entrance, Mike.  When you finish just walk out and turn left, then turn the corner. Clemenza, you gotta work fast to plant the gun.  They got an old- fashioned toilet with a space between the water container and the wall.  We can tape the gun behind there.
Mike, they're gonna frisk you in the car.  You'll be clean so they won't worry 'bout nothing.  In the restaurant, wait and talk a while, and then ask permission to go.  See? Then when you come out, don't waste time; don't sit down...you come out blasting.  And don't take chances. In the head, two shots apiece.  And out as fast as your legs can move.
I want somebody very good, very safe to plant that gun.  I don't want my brother coming out of that toilet with just his dick in his hand.
The gun will be there.
 You're on, kid...I'll square it with Mom your not seeing her before you left.  And I'll get a message to your girl friend when I think the time is right.
We gotta move...
O.K.  How long do you think before I can come back?
Probably a year...
 Jesus, I don't know...
Can you do it Mike?
Get in, Mike.
I'm glad you came, Mike.  I hope we can straighten everything out.  All this is terrible, it's not the way I wanted things to happen at all. It should never have happened.
I want to settle things tonight.  I want my father left alone.
He won't be; I swear to you be my children he won't be.  Just keep an open mind when we talk.  I hope you're not a hothead like your brother, Sonny.  It's impossible to talk business with him.
He's a good kid.  He's all right. Turn around, up on your knees, facing me.
I'm sorry about the other night Mike.  I'm getting too old for my job, too grouchy.  Can't stand the aggravation.  You know how it is. He's clean.
We're going to New Jersey?
 Maybe.
Nice work; I'll remember it.
Is the Italian food good here?
Try the veal; it's the finest in New York.
I am going to talk Italian to Mike.
Sure, you two go right ahead; I'll concentrate on my veal and my spaghetti.
 Most important...I want a sure guarantee that no more attempts will be made on my father's life.
What guarantees can I give you?  I am the hunted one.  I've missed my chance.  You think too highly of me, my friend...I am not so clever...all I want if a truce...
What is it?
Is it all right if I go to the bathroom?
I frisked him; I've frisked thousands of young punks; he's clean.
Don't take too long.
Now I can talk.  I feel much better.
McCLUSKEY finally falls from the chair to the table. MICHAEL is wildly at a peak.  He starts to move out.  His hand: is frozen by his side, STILL GRIPPING THE GUN. He moves, not letting the gun go.
Nice Augie...nice.
Pick up your sister?
Yeah.
Who is it?
It's me, Sonny.
 Connie, what is it?
 It was my fault!  I started a fight with him and I tried to hit him so he hit me.  He didn't even try to hit me hard Sonny, I walked into it.
I'm goin' to have the doctor come over and take a look at you.
Oh Sonny, please don't do anything. Please don't.
Hey.  Con.  What'm I goin' to do? Make your kid a orphan before he's born.
You...bastard...You...hurt my sister... again...and I'll kill...you.
Kay, we weren't expecting you.  You should call...
I've tried calling and writing.  I want to reach Michael.
Nobody knows where he is.  We know he's all right, but that's all.
What was that?
An accident.  No one was hurt.
Listen Tom, I let my cab go; can I come in to call another one?
Sure...I'm sorry.
Will you give this to him.
If I accept that letter and you told a Court of Law I accepted it, they would interpret it as my having knowledge of his whereabouts. Just wait Kay, he'll contact you.
You're Mikey's little girl.
You eat anything?
 Disgrazia, you don't even give the poor girl a cup of coffee?
Will you give this letter to Michael.
Mama, no.
You tell me what to do?  Even he don't tell me what to do.
Why did they blame Michael?
You listen to me, you go home to your family, and you find a good young man and get married.  Forget about Mikey; he's no good for you, anymore.
What's the matter, Carlo?
Shut up.
...since McCluskey's killing, the police have cracked down on most of our operations...on the other families too.  There's been a lot of bad blood.
Pop, they hit us and we hit them back.
We put out a lot of material through our contacts in the Newspapers...about McCluskey's being tied up with Sollozzo in the Drug Rackets...things are starting to loosen up.
Freddie's gonna go to Las Vegas...under the protection of Don Francesco of L.A.  I want him to rest...
I'm goin' to learn the casino business.
Michael...  It was Michael who killed Sollozzo.
He's safe now...we're already working on ways to bring him back.
We'll let the old man take it easy for a couple of weeks.  I want to get things going good before he gets better.  What's the matter with you?
You start operating, the five families will start their raids again.  We're at a stalemate Sonny, your war is costing us a lot of money.
No more stalemate Tom, we got the soldiers, we'll match them gun for gun if that's how they want it. They know me for what I am, Tom-- and they're scared of me.
Yes.  That's true, you're getting a hell of a reputation.
Well it's war!  We might not be in this shape if we had a real war- time Consiglere, a Sicilian.  Pop had Genco, who do I have?  Hey Tom, hey...hey.  It's Sunday, we're gonna have dinner.  Don't be sore.
Who is this?
 I'm a friend of Carlo's.  I just wanted to tell him I can't see him tonight; I have to go out of town.
You lousy tramp bitch. 
What was that?
Your girl friend.  She says she can't make it tonight.  You lousy bastard you have the nerve to give your whores my telephone number. I'll kill you, you bastard!
 You're crazy.  She was kidding around; I don't know, some nut.
You're staying home.  You're not going out.
OK, OK.  You gonna make me something to eat at least?
The food is on the table.
I'm not hungry yet.
Eat it, it's on the table.
Ba Fa Goulle.
BA FA GOULE YOU!
You filthy guinea spoiled brat. Clean it up or I'll kick your head in.
Like hell I will.
Clean it up!
Even the female Corleones are murderers.
The baby!  The baby!
You're fat as a pig.
Mama...mama, it's Connie.  Mama, I can't talk any louder.  No, I don't want to talk to Sonny.
Yeah Connie.
Sonny, just send a car to bring me home.  I'll tell you then, it's nothing Sonny, don't you come. Send TOM, please Sonny, it's nothing; I just want to come home.
 You wait there.  You just wait there.
 That sonofabitch; that sonofabitch...
Go after him.
This is Tom Hagen.  I'm calling for Don Corleone, at his request.
Yes, I understand.  I'm listening.
You owe the Don a service.  In one hour, not before, perhaps later, he will be at your funeral parlor to ask for your help.  Be there to greet him.  If you have any objections speak now, and I'll inform him.
Anything...Anything the Godfather wishes.
Good.  He never doubted you.
The Don himself is coming to me tonight?
Yes. 
For the last year, they have been killing one another.  So now, what? Your Godfather comes to me...Why?  They've killed someone so important that they wish to make his body disappear.
 Amerigo!
They could make me an accomplice to their murder.  They could send me to jail!
And if the other families find out...they will make me their enemy. They could come here to our house. I curse the day I ever went to the Godfather.
Well my friend, are you ready to do me this service?
What do you wish me to do?
 I want you to use all your powers, all your skill, as you love me.  I do not want his mother to see him as he is.
 OK.  Go to Clemenza's house and tell him to come here right away. He'll tell you what to do.
Give me a drop of anisette.
My wife was weeping before she fell asleep, outside my window I saw my caporegimes to the house, and it is midnight.  So, Consigliere of mine, I think you should tell your Don what everyone knows.
 I didn't tell Mama anything.  I was about to come up and wake you and tell you.  Just now.
But you needed a drink first.
Yes.
Now you've had your drink.
They shot Sonny on the Causeway.  He's dead.
I want no inquiries made.  No acts of vengeance.  Consigliere, arrange a meeting with the heads of the five families...this war stops now.
Call Bonasera...he will do me a service.
This is Tom Hagen; I'm calling for Don Corleone, at his request.
Yes, I understand I'm listening.
You owe the Don a service.  He has no doubt that you will repay it.
I want to thank you all for coming. I consider it a service done to me personally and I am in the debt of each and every one of you. Especially those of you who have traveled from such distances as California, St. Louis, Kansas City; and New Orleans...
Ah well, let's get down to business. We are all honorable men here, we don't have to give assurances as if we were lawyers. (he sits, gazes out at them, and sighs) How did things ever go so far? Well, no matter.  A lot of foolishness has come to pass.  It was so unfortunate, so unnecessary.
Tattaglia has lost a son; I have lost a son.  We are quits.  Let there be a peace... (he gestures expressively, submissively, with his hands) That is all I want...
Don Corleone is too modest.  He had the judges and politicians in his pocket and he refused to share them. His refusal is not the act of a friend.  He takes the bread out of the mouths of our families.  Times have changed, it's not like the old days where everyone can go his own way.  If Don Corleone had all the judges and politicians in New York, then he must share them or let others use them.  Certainly he can present a bill for such services, we're not Communists, after all. But he has to let us draw water from the well.  It's that simple.
My friends, I didn't refuse out of malice.  You all know me.  When have I ever refused an accommodation? But why, this time?  Because I think this drug business will destroy us in the years to come. It's not like whiskey or gambling or even women which most people want and is forbidden them by the pezzonovante of the Church and the Government.  But drugs?  No.  Even policemen, who help us in gambling and other things would refuse to help us in drugs.  But...I am willing to do whatever all of you think is necessary.
I don't believe in drugs.  For years I paid my people extra so they wouldn't do that kind of business...$200 a week.  But it didn't matter.  Somebody comes to them and says, "I have powders, if you put up three, four thousand dollar investment, we can make fifty thousand distributing."  Who can resist such a profit? There's no way to control it, as a business...to keep it respectable.  I don't want it near schools!  I don't want it sold to children. That is an infamita.  In my city I would try to keep the traffic in the dark people, the colored.  They are the best customers, the least troublesome, and they are animals anyway.  They have no respect for their wives or their families or themselves.  Let them lose their souls with drugs. But something has to be done, we can't have everybody running around doing just what they please, like a bunch of anarchists.
Then, are we agreed; the traffic in drugs will be permitted, but controlled; and Don Corleone agrees to give it protection in the East.
That's the whole matter then, we have the peace, and let me pay my respects to Don Corleone, whom we have all known over the years as a man of his word. (noticing TATTAGLIA is uneasy) Don Philip?
I agree to everything here, I'm willing to forget my own misfortune. But I must hear strict assurance from Corleone.  When time goes by and his position becomes stronger, will he attempt any individual vengeance?
I forego my vengeance for my dead son, for the common good.  But I have selfish reasons.  My youngest son had to flee, accused of Sollozzo's murder, and I must now make arrangements so that he can come home with safety, cleared of all those false charges.  That is my affair, and I will make those arrangements.  But I am a superstitious man...and so if some unlucky accident should befall my youngest son, if some police officer should accidentally shoot him, or if he should hang himself in his cell, or if my son is struck by a bolt of lightning, then I will blame some of the people here.  That, I could never forgive, but...aside from that, let me swear by the souls of my Grandchildren that I will never be the one to break the peace we have made.
When I meet with Tattaglia's people; should I insist that all his drug middle-men be clean?
Mention it, don't insist.  Barzini is a man who will know that without being told.
You mean Tattaglia.
 Barzini.
 He was the one behind Sollozzo?
Tattaglia is a pimp.  He could never have outfought Santino.  But I wasn't sure until this day.  No, it was Barzini all along.
Don Tommassino.
Michael, why must you do this.  We have been lucky so far, all these months you've been here we've kept your name a secret.  It is from love for your father that I've asked you never to more than an hour from the Villa.
Calo and Fabrizzio are with me; nothing will happen.
You must understand that your Father's enemies have friends in Palermo.
I know.
Where are you going?
Corleone.
There is nothing there.  Not anymore.
I was told that my Grandfather was murdered on its main street; and his murderers came to kill my father there when he was twelve years old.
Long ago.  Now there is nothing: the men killed each other in family vendettas...the others escaped to America.
Don Tommassino...I should see this place.
That is your birthright...but Michael, use this car.
No...I would like to walk to Corleone.
Be careful Michael, don't let them know your name.
You tell us about America.
How do you know I come from America?
We hear.  We were told you were a Pezzonovanta...big shot.
Only the son of a Pezzonovanta.
Hey America!  Is she as rich as they say?
Yes.
Take me to America!  You need a good lupara in America?  You take me, I'll be the best man you got.  "Oh say, can you seeee...By da star early light..."
America. Hey America! Take me with you! Hey, take me to America G.I.!
Corleone.
The names of the dead.
 Hey, beautiful girls!
 Shhhhh.
 Jesus Christ, take my soul.  I'm dying.
You got hit by the thunderbolt, eh?
Easy man.
What are you talking about?
You can't hide it when you're hit by the thunderbolt.
You know all the girls in this town, eh?  We saw some beauties coming down the road.  One in particular got our friend hit with the Thunderbolt... 
You had better bring a few bottles home with you, my friend; you'll need help sleeping tonight. 
This one could seduce the devil.  A body! and eyes as big and black as olives.
 I know about what you mean!
This was a beauty.  Right, Calo?
 Beautiful all over, eh?
And hair.  Black and curly, like a doll.  And such a mouth.
Yes, we have beautiful girls here... but virtuous.
She wore a red dress, and a red ribbon in her hair.  She looks more Greek than Italian.  Do you know a beauty like that?
No.
God in Heaven, I think I understand...
Let's get out of here; he's boiling up his blood to do us mischief. It's his daughter.
Come quickly.
Innkeeper.  More wine!
 The old bastard mentioned two sons he only has to whistle up.
Tell him to come to me.
 I understand I've offended you by talking about your daughter.  I offer you my apologies, I'm a stranger in this country, I don't know the customs very well.  Let me say this, I meant no disrespect to you or her...
 Who are you and what do you want from my daughter?
I am an American hiding in Sicily from the police of my country.  My name is Michael.  You can inform the police and make your fortune but then your daughter would lose a father rather than gain a husband. In any case, I want to meet your daughter.  With your permission and under the supervision of your family.  With all decorum.  With all respect.  I am an honorable man.
Are you a friend of the friends?
When the proper time comes, I'll tell you everything that a wife's father should know.
It's the real Thunderbolt, then.
 Come Sunday morning:  My name is Vitelli and my house is up there on the hill, above the village.
Your daughter's name?
Appolonia.
Grazia.
It's safer to teach you English.
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday...See, I learned it.  Now teach me to drive!
Ciao, Don Tommassino.
Things went badly in Palermo?
The younger men have no respect. Things are changing; I don't know what will happen.  Michael, because of the wedding, people now know your name.
Is that why there are more men on the walls?
Even so, I don't think it is safe here anymore.  I've made plans to move you to a villa near Siracuse. You must go right away.
What is it?
Bad news from America.  Your brother, Santino.  He has been killed.
Get the car.  I'll be leaving in ten minutes.  Where's Calo?
Calo is having a cup of coffee in the kitchen.  Is your wife coming with you?
No, she's going home to her family. She'll join me in a few weeks...
Should I get your bag?
No, I'll get it.  Where's Appolonia?
 She is sitting in the driver's seat of the car, dying to step on the gas.  She'll be a real American woman before she gets to America.
Tell Fabrizzio and wait for me in the car.
 Where the hell is he going?
 I'll drive to you.
No.  No!
Fabrizzio.  Let your shepherds know that the one who gives me Fabrizzio will own the finest pastures in Sicily.
Be my son...
This old building has seen its day. No way to do business...too small, too old.
Have you thought about a wife?  A family?
 No.
I understand, Michael.  But you must make a family, you know.
I want children, I want a family. But I don't know when.
Accept what's happened, Michael.
I could accept everything that's happened; I could accept it, but that I never had a choice.  From the time I was born, you had laid this all out for me.
No, I wanted other things for you.
You wanted me to be your son.
Yes, but sons who would be professors, scientists, musicians...and grandchildren who could be, who knows, a Governor, a President even, nothing's impossible here in America.
Then why have I become a man like you?
You are like me, we refuse to be fools, to be puppets dancing on a string pulled by other men.  I hoped the time for guns and killing and massacres was over.  That was my misfortune.  That was your misfortune.  I was hunted on the streets of Corleone when I was twelve years old because of who my father was.  I had no choice.
A man has to choose what he will be. I believe that.
What else do you believe in?
Believe in a family.  Can you believe in your country?  Those Pezzonovante of the State who decide what we shall do with our lives?  Who declare wars they wish us to fight in to protect what they own.  Do you put your fate in the hands of men whose only talent is that they tricked a bloc of people to vote for them?  Michael, in five years the Corleone family can be completely legitimate.  Very difficult things have to happen to make that possible.  I can't do them anymore, but you can, if you choose to.
Believe in a family; believe in a Code of Honor, older and higher, believe in Roots that go back thousands of years into your Race. Make a family, Michael, and protect it.  These are our affairs, sono cosa nostra, Governments only protect men who have their own individual power.  Be one of those men...you have the choice.
There's a new one.  Construction going on everywhere.
That's one of the family's new ones. Not bad, eh?
Why didn't Moe Green meet us at the airport?
He had business at the hotel, but he'll drop in for dinner.
You look wonderful, kid; really wonderful.  That doctor did some job on your face.
You look good, too.
Nice, eh?
 Kid, take a look-see.
Ever seen anything like that before?
 No.
Mike!  The party starting!
Come here a minute, Fredo.
Who are those girls?
 That's for you to find out.
Give them some money and send them home.
Mike!
Get rid of them...
Johnny, the Corleone family is thinking of selling out all our interests in the Olive Oil business and settling here.  Moe Greene will sell us his interest so it can be wholly owned by friends of the family.
Mike, you sure about Moe selling. He never mentioned it to me and he loves the business.
I'll make him an offer he can't refuse.
Johnny, the Don wants you to help us get started.  We figure entertainment will be the big factor in drawing gamblers.  We hope you'll sign a contract to appear five times a year for maybe a week long engagement. We hope your friends in the movies will do the same.  We count on you to convince them.
Sure, I'll do anything for my Godfather.  You know that, Mike.
Mike, good to see you.  Got everything you want?
Thanks.
The chef cooked for you special; the dancers will kick your tongue out and you credit is good!  Draw chips for all these people so they can play on the house.
Is my credit good enough to buy you out?
Buy me out?...
The hotel, the casino.  The Corleone family wants to buy you out.
 The Corleone family wants to buy me out.  I buy you out.  You don't buy me out.
Your casino loses money.  Maybe we can do better.
You think I scam?
 You're unlucky.
You goddamn dagos.  I do you a favor and take Freddie in when you're having a bad time, and then you try to push me out.
You took Freddie in because the Corleone family bankrolled your casino.  You and the Corleone family are evened out.  This is for business; name your price.
The Corleone family don't have that kind of muscle anymore.  The Godfather is sick.  You're getting chased out of New York by Barzini and the other families, and you think you can find easier pickings here.  I've talked to Barzini; I can make a deal with him and keep my hotel!
 Is that why you thought you could slap Freddie around in public?
 Ah Mike, that was nothing.  Moe didn't mean anything.  He flies off the handle sometimes; but me and him are good friends.  Right, Moe?
Yeah sure.  Sometimes I gotta kick asses to make this place run right. Freddie and I had a little argument and I had to straighten him out.
You straightened my brother out?
Hell, he was banging cocktail waitresses two at a time.  Players couldn't get a drink.
I have to go back to New York tomorrow.  Think of your price.
You son of a bitch, you think you can brush me off like that?  I made my bones when you were going out with cheerleaders.
 Tom, you're the Consigliere; you can talk to the Don and advise him.
The Don has semi-retired.  I'm running the Family business now. So anything you have to say, say it to me.
Freddie, you're my older brother. I love you.  But don't ever take sides with anybody against the Family again.
I have to see my father and his people when we get back to the Mall.
Oh Michael.
We'll go to the show tomorrow night--we can change the tickets.
Don't you want dinner first?
No, you eat...don't wait up for me.
Wake me up when you come to bed?
Your sister wants to ask you something.
Let HER ask.
She's afraid to.  Michael...
Why are you so cold to her and Carlo?  They live with us on the Mall now, but you never get close to them.
I'm busy.
Connie and Carlo want you to be godfather to their little boy.
Will you?
Let me think about it, O.K.?
Barzini's people chisel my territory and we do nothing about it.  Pretty soon there won't be one place in Brooklyn I can hang my hat.
Just be patient.
I'm not asking you for help, Mike. Just take off the handcuffs.
Be patient.
We gotta fight sometime.  Let us at least recruit our regimes to full strength.
No, I don't want to give Barzini an excuse to start fighting.
Mike, you're wrong.
Don Corleone...Don Corleone.
You said there would come a day when Tessio and me could form our own Families.  Only with your benediction, of course.  I ask permission...
My son is head of the Family now. If you have his permission, you have my good will.
In six months you can break off from the Corleone Family and go on your own.  Carlo, I'm counting on you to make the move to Nevada; you'll be my right-hand man out there.  Tom Hagen is no longer the Consigliere.
He's going to be our lawyer in Vegas.  Nobody goes to him with any other business as of now, this minute.  No reflection on Tom; that's the way I want it.  Besides, if I ever need any advice, who's a better Consigliere than my father.
Then in a six month time we're on our own; is that it?
Maybe less...
Let us fill up our Regimes.
No.  I want things very calm for another six months.
Forgive me, Godfather, let our years of friendship be my excuse. How can you hope for success there without your strength here to back you up?  The two  go hand in hand. And with you gone from here the Barzini and the Tattaglias will be too strong for us.
And I don't like Barzini.  I say the Corleone Family has to move from strength, not weakness.  We should build our Regimes and take back our lost territories in Staten Island, at least.
Do you have faith in my judgement?
Yes, Godfather...
Then do what Michael says...
All I can say is that things are being resolved that are more effective than a thousand buttonmen on the streets.  Understood?
Understood.  I just wish I was doing more to help out.
I'll come to you when I need you.
All right, then it's resolved.
Mike, why are you cutting me out of the action?
Tom, we're going to be legitimate all the way, and you're the legal man.  What could be more important than that.
I'm not talking about that.  I'm talking about Rocco Lampone building a secret regime.  Why does Neri report directly to you, rather than through me or a caporegime?
I told you that it wouldn't escape his eye.
How did you find out?
Bookkeepers know everything. Rocco's men are all a little too good for the jobs they're supposed to be doing.  They get a little more money than the job's worth.  Lampone's a good man; he's operating perfectly.
Not so perfectly if you noticed.
Mike, why am I out?
You're not a wartime Consigliere. Things may get tough with the move we're trying.
OK, but then I agree with Tessio. You're going about it all wrong; you're making the move out of weakness... Barzini's a wolf, and if he tears you apart, the other families won't come running to help the Corleones...
Tom, I never thought you were a bad Consigliere, I thought Santino a bad Don, rest in peace.  He had a good heart but he wasn't the right man to head the family when I had my misfortune.  Michael has all my confidence, as you do.  For reasons which you can't know, you must have no part in what will happen.
Maybe I can help.
 You're out, Tom.
I'm going to talk to my father.
I see you have your Luca Brasi.
I'll need him.
There are men in this world who demand to be killed.  They argue in gambling games; they jump out of their cars in a rage if someone so much as scratches their fender. These people wander through the streets calling out "Kill me, kill me."  Luca Brasi was like that. And since he wasn't scared of death, and in fact, looked for it...I made him my weapon.  Because I was the only person in the world that he truly hoped would not kill him.  I think you have done the same with this man.
Barzini will move against you first.
How?
He will get in touch with you through someone you absolutely trust.  That person will arrange a meeting, guarantee your safety...
...and at that meeting you will be assassinated.
Your wife and children...you're happy with them?
Yes.
Good.
I've always respected you...
And I...you.
How is your husband feeling?
He's not the same since they shot him.  He lets Michael do all the work.  He just plays the fool with his garden, his peppers, his tomatoes, as if he was some peasant still.  But men are like that...
You come in, too.
The Priest ain't gonna bite you cause you're not Catholic.  He's in the back drinkin' his wine.
You can.
Do you remember me?
No...
We danced together at Connie's wedding.
Mike, could I have a minute?
Barzini wants to arrange a meeting. Says we can straighten any of our problems out.
He talked to you?
 I can arrange security.
 Christ, Tom; I needed more time with him.  I really needed him.
Did he give you his politicians?
Not all...I needed another four months and I would have had them all.  I guess you've figured it all out?
How will they come at you?
I know now. (a passion wells up inside of MICHAEL) I'll make them call me Don.
Have you agreed on a meeting?
 A week from tonight.  In Brooklyn on Tessio's ground, where I'll be safe.
But after the Baptism.  I've decided to stand as godfather to Connie's baby.
 Do you pledge to guide and protect this child if he is left fatherless? Do you promise to shield him against the wickedness of the world?
Yes, I promise.
OK, wise guy, you wanna summons, or you wanna move?
 You better check with your precinct.
Move it!
Let me see you license and registration.
Ephetha...be opened...So you may perceive the fragrance of God's sweetness.
Do you renounce Satan.
I do renounce him.
And all his works?
I do renounce them.
Do you wish to be baptized?
I do wish to be baptized.
I christen you Michael Francis Rizzi.
Kiss your Godfather.
Carlo...we've had a change in the plans.  Mama, Connie, Kay and the kids will have to take the trip out to Vegas without us.
Oh Mike, it's our first vacation together.
 Jesus, Connie...Sure, Mike...
Go back to your house and wait for me...
 I'll just be a couple of days...
You'd better make your call to Barzini; Michael's ready.
We're on our way to Brooklyn.
I hope Mike can get us a good deal tonight.
 I'm sure he will.
The boss says he'll come in a separate car.  He says for you two to go on ahead.
 Hell, he can't do that.  It screws up all my arrangements.
 I can't go with you either, Tessio.
 Tell Mike it was business...I always liked him.
He understands that.
 Tom, can you get me off the hook? For old times' sake?
I can't.
Godfather!
You have to answer for Santino.
You fingered Sonny for the Barzini people.  That little farce you played out with my sister.  Did Barzini kid you that would fool a Corleone?
 I swear I'm innocent.  I swear on the head of my children, I'm innocent.  Mike, don't do this to me, please Mike, don't do this to me!
 Barzini is dead.  So is Philip Tattaglia, so are Strachi, Cuneo and Moe Greene...I want to square all the family accounts tonight. So don't tell me you're innocent; admit what you did.
 Don't be frightened.  Do you think I'd make my sister a widow?  Do you think I'd make your children fatherless?  After all, I'm Godfather to your son.  No, your punishment is that you're out of the family business.  I'm putting you on a plane to Vegas--and I want you to stay there.  I'll send Connie an allowance, that's all. But don't keep saying you're innocent; it insults my intelligence and makes me angry.  Who approached you, Tattaglia or Barzini?
 Barzini.
 Good, good.  Leave now; there's a car waiting to take you to the airport.
I'll call your wife and tell her what flight you're on.
You know I would never question anything you say.
 Speak your mind.
I'll do this for you; you know I should.
No.  This I have to do.
Sit in the car.
Where's the boss?
In the back.  Hey Frank, someone wants you.
What is it?
Michael!
 Connie...
You lousy bastard; you killed my husband...
Connie...
You waited until our father died and nobody could stop you and you killed him, you killed him!  You blamed him about Sonny, you always did, everybody did.  But you never thought about me, never gave a damn about me.  What am I going to do now, what am I going to do.
Connie, how could you say such things?
Why do you think he kept Carlo on the Mall?  All the time he knew he was going to kill my husband.  But he didn't dare while my father was alive.  And then he stood Godfather to our child.  That coldhearted bastard.  And do you know how many men he had killed with Carlo?  Just read the papers.  That's your husband.
Get her home and get a doctor.
She's hysterical.
Michael, it's not true.  Please tell me.
Don't ask me.
Tell me!
All right, this one time I'll let you ask about my affairs, one last time.
Is it true?
 No.
 We both need a drink.
Don Corleone...
