The screen is black. First we hear the sound of a single trumpet playing slowly and sadly, the notes faintly resonant as if echoing through the narrow streets of some old hill village in Sicily. Now, confusingly, we see a slant of light move past us and another, and as our surroundings become more visible, we discover that we are moving through a pine forest lit by shafts of morning sunlight. Now,. suddenly, we come out of the trees and find ourselves on the Nevada shore of Lake Tahoe.
Tony.
In you get ---
Will. Daddy be at the airport?
No. Ere wanted me to tell you both how sorry he was.
8e sure and give my love to your mother.
It isn't like you won't be back from time to time.
I' 11 bet we' 11 all. be together for Christmas. Wait and see. Tony gems into the car. He locks out the window to-- ward the house. We begin XXI-N Ti. TZS 2 C 2=17"s
Hagen is the last one into the car. As it starts down the driveway on its way to the airport in Reno, Connie, Lampone, Neri and the Housekeeper all wave. The auto- matic gate at the foot of the driveway opens. The Guard at the gate flicks a half-salute as the Limousine passes through. TEE GROUP r n FONT OF EOQSE As the group breaks, Connie and the Housekeeper going back inside, Neri and Lampone drifting off, we pan up- ward to a window in the second-story and zoom in. Michael Corleone has moved the curtain aside with one hand and is looking after the disappearing limousine, his expression unreadable-but somehow sad.
as an airliner of the period comes in for a landing.
clapboard house with giant elms and maples in the front yard. The limousine stops outside the house.
-- there are no limits to the goals to which we can each legitimately aspire. And now, as an unpopular war is ended in East Asia and we set our sights on new goals, I leave you with the words of another Sailor --- We continue to pull back to discover that we are at the Navy and Marine Corps stadium. It is a late Spring day and in the early-middle Nineteen Seventies. The Midshipmen, their parents and guests, are gathered for- the graduation ceremonies.
' Our will is to keep the torch of freedom burning for all. To this solemn purpose we call on the young, the brave and the strong, and the free. Heed my call. Come to the sea. Come sail with me.'
During this speech we find we have been. moving through the stadium. We find Tony's mother, Ray, among the guests. We also see Tony's sister, Mary, about twenty, Tom Hagen and Al Neri.
The speech is over and as the audience applauds, the Superintendent of the Academy crosses an to Grundellius.
Thank you, lister Secretary - As the Secretary of State crosses back to his seat, the Superintendent addresses the microphone. SUPERZNT-".j. DENT The following First Classmen will step forward to receive their diplomas. The Superintendent consults a list which an Aid has supplied- The Superintendent reads off. the first t'o names, then
Trident Scholar Anthony Adams At the sound of his name Tony rises and moves toward- the Speaker's platform. We
I propose three cheers for those about to leave us. Eig hip! (the Brigade answers with a roar)
The Brigade answers for the th:i.rd time aid as the Mid- sh pma.. runs cff, his =lace is taken by a RepreSen- by tat.?.ve of the graduating class.
I propose three cheers for those we leave behind. Hip hip
?EA aR=G TONY As the graduating Midshipmen give their last full- throated response and skim their hats into the air, Tony -- half a beat behind the others -- does like- wise. We pull back and pan upward to the explosion of white hats arching through the air.
Thank you, Sir.
I'm sorry to drag him off this way, Mam.
 See you all tonight. Tony kisses his mother and he and Palmateer move off.
0 I . CIA BU=SIT MA.DGE OF-vICF,) - DAY as Palmateer shows his identification to a Woman behind the desk:
Captain Palzaateer. (then, indic-
Mister- Adams. We have an appoint- ment with the D.D.P. The Woman gives Palmateer his badge, checking the photo on the badge against his face before she does so. Palmateer initials the form she gives him as she gives Tony his pass and stamps it in large letters: "rust
I=. CIA BtJILAING  - DAY Within the foyer is another crate separating the foyer from the inner sanctum of the building itself. We are on the Gate Guards as they check the badges and passes of those entering. They nod Palmateer and Tony through the gate. We pan them toward the bank of varicolored elevators. As they go to the elevators we hear ---
?.ssum ._^_c no serious orobiams cc-me to light, y cv will be g..ven pro- visional operao_ons apz=va_, effec- 0 tive fors .x non zhs . di x. q rich
PALMATEER time you would be sent to our fac- ility at Camp Peary for a special training program -- Tony and Pal.mateer enter the office at the far- end of the hall. iT. MOREECUSE'S OFFICE - DAY It is a reasonably large office as befits one of the top echelon CIA men. Morehouse, himself, sits at a large desk. The seal of the Agency is an the wall behind him, flanked by the National flag and the Agency flag, an standards. We are close on Thomas Morehouse, about fifty-five, an imposing, silver-haired mar.. He locks up from a dossier he's been studying, then:
Would you have any objections to being assigned to us, Mister Adams?
That would depend on the duty, Sir.
Just that there was an assignment we thought he'd be suited for. MOREHOQSr. All right.
Something the matter, Mister Adams?
Before we go into polygraphs and so on, there's something you might not know. MCB EOUS.c Fact is, we know quite a bit.
Adams, Anthony. No middle initial. Born New York Nursery and Childs' Hospital, rebruary 3rd, 1951. Mother and father separated.
Divorced.
Divorced. Morehouse. scratches the correction into the dossier. with a pencil, then:
You were raised in Hanover, New Hampshire. Your mother teaches school. Name legally changed in 1963. Attended Phillips Exeter. Lettered in ice hockey.
And baseball.
And baseball.
Does this assignment have scmet-h4 n5 to do wit nv =a;, er? tc NT.?w.'?VZD}
only in so far as he has certain business connections that might be willing to help us.
Y haven't seen my father since I was ten years old.
No contact at all?
I get a Christmas present and a check or. my birthday --that's about it. As far as I know, he's retired. Doesn't see anyone.
Yes. That's why I was anxious to have this meeting today -- while Mister Hagen was still in Washington.
0 as Tony pauses, thinking. After a moment:
I really don't know if I can help you very much, Mister :Korehouse.
Let me ask you a personal question, Tony.. Do you love your Country ,-  I'm not talking about t.'::e Nathan Hale kind of thug. Just simply, warts and all, do you dish this Nation well?
Yes, of course.
Well, what if w told you -- and trying nct to be grandiose -- that this one operation might very ael'6 insure peace on this :iemisnhere for the next: f.i t r vea s . Maybe Mora.
Well?
Let me make sure I'm clear on this. You're telling me that the Govern- ment would like the Corleone family to perfatm a service for them -- probably involving some friends of
s Where? Who's concerned? What would it entail, speci.-46ically?
I don't know that vet.
When will you be able to tell me these things?
As soon as they decide I.'m not a Russian spy.
What they'd like to fi:d out. right now is: Wctzd you be interested?
:' L... :.et you .c.-tct?.
no ?4U save to cheCx i :tv fat er 
I think about Tahoe sometimes. Is the fishing still good up there?
I suppose so. I'm in Vegas most of the time..
Those were good days.
Yes. They were.
As Al Teri cones up, looking at his watch.
You still want to catch that shuttle to New York?
Yes. Thank you, Al.
Q.S. Navy Research 'acili.ty.
Nothing. it-'s a dummy out: i,t. That phone rings in Langley, but they'll know where I am. f f Agen nods and guts the card in his wallet a we
M. tNTERF.OGATION ROOM ONE  -- DAV Tony is completing a test, fitting blocks together against time. The FirstInterrogator is watching impassively, stopwatch in hand. Tony finishes, straightens. The Interrogator clicks the stopwatch impassively, giving no indication whether or not Tony has passed the test.
And you were never curious?
including Tony who sits across the desk from the Interrogator.
About what?
Why your father sent you away. You never wondered about it? You must have thought something.
I thought he had his reasons.
And you don't feel any resentment?
Nothi..ng The Secor_d Iuterro,acor glandes cver. The ~t ace of anger in Tor_v`s _as- response has told hiz. and us somethinc . C"^' TO: ui-
The Third Interrogator sits at the desk behind Tony, asking questions slowly and checking the three styluses on the rolling graphs.
Have you ever visited a Ccnsmunist Country?
No.
Have you ever belonged to a Commu- 9 aist Organization?
No.
Are you telling the ruth?
Yes.
Have you ever had a homosexual ex- perience? Tony turns and looks at the Third Interrogator.
No. Save vou? The ;"hi=d Interrogator tenses angrily for a ncment,
31-I0 :N'_r'ERRCGATCR Its esser zia1 that you face the i f lar and answer the ClUest'_oi:s ?es at 1o. 
Tony turns back to the wall, then:
No.
It is later. Tony is on his feet getting ready to leave. as the Third Interrogator is checking over the graphs with their red ink squiggles.
I get a high galvanic response on question twenty-three.
Z also have agitation indicated on your cardio tracing on the same question: 'Do you have any close friends in. the Communist Party?' Your answer was negative. Would you like to amend that? Tony has rolled down his sleeve and out on his coat. He pauses at the door, then:
It's my roommate up at Eseter. Phil Bodeen.
Z don't know.
And how did 'cu feel about tat?
( sh..?ug s L gis y y r r 1 1 +I GrL MCI n E
3RD >arr.` 3ROGATOR That's interesting.
what?
You think it's perfectly all right to sew the Nation's flag to the seat of your pants?
As a matter of fact Z don't.
Adam me?
I take it you're prepared to die for that right?
No, Sir. Dying doesn't fit in with my plans at all.
Just what are your plans, Mister Adams?
T plan on passing this thing
We whip pan to Tony, returning the shot.
What makes you think so?
You've got friends in high places, chino(. As Tony puts one away: PAI.6VxT..,ER Shot..
Believe me, you'll be reading-in on the project by next week.
=T. IBO CATION BUILDING  - DAY We are on the front entrance of the building owned by the International Brotherhood of Dockworkers. This is the National Headquarters Building, so indentified by a plaque of some kind. Tom Hagen enters this buildinq 0 followed ?;y Al, Neri.
Tom! Alberto ! Come in. Come in This way. I No calls, :Maggie.
As he t r=ls the drin s, y Yea the w..T..rzh Ner+
You're looking good, Tom. How do you keep your belly so flat?
Mainly trying to rum you down.
Do You think this outfit =ins itself?
I think you're stalling us, Pat.
StaLLJag?
You want to know when I got back from New Orleans? Ten-thi.-ty last night. Big problems.
I understand and S sympathize, but you've had our proposal for a month ---
Brady crosses to the head of the board table where he opens a :older and starts riffling through some papers. As he does so, Eagen opens his briefcase.
'1f you've misplaced it, I have a copy of the package plus. a summary of Genco International's assets and projected profits based on audited financial statements with additional data supplied by our Comptroller. I also have the plans and estimates.
okay. okay. I found 4-
Not if they vote in local option gambling. And they will.
That's beside the point. ?act is, those days are over when Danny used to hand it out like so much free lunch. There's been a big reduction in our c fitment to new construction loans.
How Long has that policy been in effect?
Let me read you something.
S It's headed2 Take the hcod out of the Brotherhood.
is framed in a place of honor. After a moment Brady shakes his head and turns back to Hagen.
t'm sorry, Tom. :Such as I love and respect cur former president, I don't have any burning urge to end up rooming with him at Leavenworth.
Before you give me your final re- fusal., I'd like to say one thing ---
You've just had my final refusal, Hagen. The answer is no. i ANOTHER ANGLZ as Hagen looks at Brady for a moment, then starts putting papers back into his briefcase. As he does so:
No hard feelings. It's just a policy decision of the Board.
I understand and I thank you for your time ---
What's that supposed to mean?
What am t supposed to do? Get scared? Piss in my pants? ,,To one is trfing to intimidate you. The Corleone : ti.ly doesn't do business that wacr,
T h e Cori eons 4ami? y doesn't do 
a hell of a lot of business, period. The way Z hear it, you're finished. With Mike locked away in a rubber room someplace, and a two million dollar tax lein on your Vegas prop- erty, you. got the balls to come in here and try to run muscle on me. Get out of here. Both of you.
We were just going. Hagen has packed his papers into his briefcase. Now he nods at Neri and as both turn, and start toward the
Wait a minute. Hagen turns back. Brady comes up with the Genco Inte.r- national loan application.
Take this along with you in case you run out of toilet paper on 0 the flight back to Vegas. 3agen takes the application from Brady, then cuietly: E ,Gr 3 Don't ever think that the Corleone Tamily is finished, Mister Brady. That would be a mistake. Hagen and Neri now turn and exit. Brady is looking after them. Gradually the bravado drains from his big, pink, Irish face and he crosses to the telephone and picks it up.
Gat me Sam Maatrocina.
There's a trick to it, Pat.
including the canopied afterdeck of %laatrocina's lovely yacht, moored among others of its type in a splendid :forth Shore Long Island marina. Pat Brady, looking out of place in his suit and city shoes,atands trying to light a cigar with a table lighter.
Hello Sam. I'm sorry to have bothered you. We pull back slightly as Maatrocina --- in neat yacht- ing whites and deck shoes - comes up followed by a cold-looking man, Ralph Augusto, Maatrocina's hood.
No bother at all.
So what's our friend Tcm Hagen sp to these days?
Still shopping around for that loan.
Lots of luck to him.
Thank you, Ralph. Augusta, having lit Brady's cigar, nods expression- lessly and sits as:
T h ey ;ri ed to =1=_-W a scare at me. w^1TI\Z'v.Z0 ;
Don't worry about it.
Something about Hagen kind of bothered me. Maatrocina offers a platter of grapes to Brady.
You like a grape?
No thank you.
I'll te12 you haw tough Hagen is --
Ralph Auqusto will make in squat down in the middle of Times Square in the rush hour and take a shit.
Yeah? What about Al Neri?
I tell you don't worry -- don't worry. You stick with the -Maatro- ciza famly you're safe as church.
Do me a favor.. One grape. I grow 'em at my own place. They're de- licious. As Brady takes a grape, Maatrocina looks over at Ralph
ANOTHER ANGI. - FEATURING AUGu STO As he nods almost iimperceptibly, gets un and goes,
You ready, Liz?
f i fteen minutes. Out in front. We follow her out of the newsroom, dawn a hallway and around a corner and in through a. door rrar!ced, "Projec- tion Room One".
Here. As Tony flicks the lighter on:
Thank you.
My name's Adams. Tony Adams.
Senor Presidente, there are still those who say that in spite of the advances you've made, your Country still falls short of the Democratic
Obviously. However, the convulsions that my Countz went through four years ago last February were not so much a revolution as they were a --
A cleansing.
Exactly. Muchas gracias. My Country was befouled by the corruption of its leaders and their exploitation at the people. A hard cleansing was needed and sometimes that is painful -- but the pain is over and now Z am 0 hoping. that qty little Cc=try and your great Yaticn can once again be
I'm sure a lot of pecple say Amen to that, Senor Presidente. On the screen the scene has shifted to an attractive beach area where Vidal, in a wet suit, is adjusting his'-scuba gear preparitory to diving. Admiring child-- red and Elizabeth Ann. Duane watch. Over this:
For a glimpse of another facet of Armando Vidal's nat.ire, we spent the last day at the beach at Finca del Sol Where El Presidente exhibited his skills as a scuba diver -- one of his favorite hobbies. On the screen Vidal --ousels a kid' s ha..- and crosses into the water. As he wades out, Tony turns to Elizabeth.
When will this be shown?
Sometime in the Fall. While Elizabeth, in the projection room, is saying this. her image on the screen has turned to the T4 camera and is saying:
This is Elizabeth Ann Dunne coming to you from Finca del Sol where -- in an exclusive interview -- El Presidents, Armando Vidal, has just extended the hand of friendship from quote, 'his little Country to our great Nation . '
The reel is over. The screen goes blank and the lights in the projection room go on.
40 What is it that you're working on? 16 Some sort of'a psychological pro- file on Vidal for the Navy Depart- ment?
Right. There's a couple of ques- tions I wanted to ask you, if that's okay.
I ignoring it. I've got to pick up some shots around town, but you're welcome to come along. They are at the projection: room door. As Tony cpens it for her she causes, then:
You ever play any baseball, :lister Adams?
Sow did you guess h.at?
I saw you pitch a no-hitter against Army two years ago.
You're kidding.
L don't kid about no hitters.. Elizabeth exits. Tony follows. We ---
Tony and Elizabeth appear., followed by the Cameraman and one or t'c more. As Tony and Elizabeth cross into the beautifully kept grounds of the old Plantation ----
None of my business, but what were you. doing at an Army-Navy ball. game?
We were putting together a special on Arne Grundellius. He'd just been appointed Secretary of State. Ee threw the first ball that day.
You've got a pretty good memory.
And you.'ve got a pretty good slider. But L've got to be honest, you threw a lot of junk in the last two innings . As Tony shoots her a look:.
My old man was on the Spar rs' Desk of the Boston Globe for wwent;r-five
ELIZABETH years. Z was practically raised at Fenwick Park in the Carl Yastremski
As Elizabeth crosses and starts working out a shot with the Cameraman, Tony is eying her speculatively.
Tony? We're finished ---- As Tony turns, we pull back and pan to include Eliza- beth, who stands in the little leafy path leading from the vault. As Tony crosses and ;tins her, we
0 T. SPACE AND FL GF ' M SEt M - DAY We are on the balcony as Elizabeth sets up a shot frog: the Wright Brother's "Flyer" panning to "The. Spirit of St. Louis", and then to one of the Space Capsules. Tony is watching Elizabeth. She looks over, catches his eye, smiles.
One dr iak, ckayr?
You and Grundeilias?
At Kennedy Center.
Ee really gets around.
Well, he got around nee anyway.
Oaps.
No ha=, no foul.
As Elizabeth picks up another picture, this one a framed studio portrait, inscribed, of the Secretary. As she locks at it:
We had quite a little thing going .for a while. I think he ac tuually gave up two starlettes and a bare- back rider -- temporarily.
You stir see h,m?
Once in a while.
Said she ?ri.s4f?i? r.
Z was just going.
Don't mind me. I'm just your basic Boston Irish. We bruise easily and heal slowly.
Call. me.
rXT THE BATTERY  - NIGHT A limousine comes down past the Battery Park and moves toward the Staten Island Ferry Building. It is about ten o'clock at night.
Here it comes now.
as the fear comes up. Noses into the slip. Creak of pilings. The limousine drives onto the ferry.
I don'-.t ;smcke.
Beat it.
Give him a _-- Suddenly veri breaks cg!, sensing something wrong. The other Puerto Ricans are surrounding the limousine. As Neri dives for the door of the car ---
Guns have appeared in the hands of the Puerto Ricans and they start to blast at the limousine from outside. The ferry whistle is blowing.
Neri :its the deck, a !4 na , cones t _t? -- --u n :t a- blast:.:.CT.
One of the Puerto Rican kids is hit squarely in the chest. He flies back, azms up, legs sz readea_gI d, like he was hit in the chest with a baseball bat.
Prankie is out of the car, reaching for his gun. Before he can get it clear, he is hit in the shoulder and spun to the splintery, oily deck.
As a Puerto Rican goes to finish off Frankie, Al Neri blows him away.
as two other Puerto Ricans blast Neri simultaneously. Neri's eyes go wide. He coughs.: A big, stringy sob of blood appears in his mouth, vomits out onto his shirtfront.
He goes down to his knees, tries to raise his grin for one last shot. A Puerto Rican grins and putting his gun. an inch from Neri's face, pulls thetrigger.
People are screaming, running. The'ferry is starting to pull from the dock. The four remaining Puerto Ricans run for the end of the boat, make the Leap over the churning water from the ferry to the landing.
The services finish and the group breaks into smaller informal, groupings. We move to Tom Hagen and Tony, who have drifted to one side. aNOTH.ER ANGLE as Hagen indicates a moon-faced man, Imberto Croce, about sixty, who is approaching them.
Umberto Croce out of Tama. He took over the whole Florida thing after Hyman Roth and Johnny Ola were retired. Cmberto has come up.
Cmberto. Michael's son. Anthony.
Youi father must be proud.
Say hello to your cousin,
Rizzi - your Aunt Connie s by-- and this- is Santino, your uncle Sonny's oldest. As Tony shakes hands with Santino and ?rinkie:
Frankie was in that little shit storm on the ferry boat.
The whole thing don't make sense to me.
All Z know is Al got a phone call from that, nephew of his, Tommy, who runs numbers in Staten Island.
Fucking punk.
It was something about Al's sister being sick bad with the ptomaine or I something. We walked right into it.
What about Tommy?
The nephew? Nobody seen him since.
Ask me he's out in the Narrows with about eight slot machines tied around his neck.
As Rocco Lamm pone comes up, clearly agitated:
How do you Like the ally oaf that bastard? Snowing up here.
Maatr-ocina?
If your old man was alive, that son of a bitch would be eating his dinner in hell tonight.
Be patient, Rocco, and trust me.
as Sam Maat:ocina comes up, his expression suitably somber.
Tom. E'ellas. Go figure life, huh?. A guy like Al Neri. Who'd of fig- c a red him to get mousetrapped like that? Maatrocima is shaking hands with Hagen,. Rocco and 0 Frankie. As he does so:
The arm on the guy.
Mistake, ';.'onv. ?never let a man like that 'mow what you' :e thiak- .ng .
as they pass Umberto Croce who is coming out of the diming room where a buffet has been set up. Croce has a heaping plate of, food. He pauses, shaking his head.
Sad day, sad day. As Croce moves on, shaking his head, _rankie locks after him.
Dania near ruined his appetite.
How strong is the Corleone family connected in Latin America?
We got some people doom there used to work for us in the hotel. Now they do odd jobs. Help with the airline. Like that.
Tell me about the airline. It's what you call non-scheduled. You 'now?
? R A N = be standing around with empty spoons stuck up their noses. As Sonny's daughter, Francesca, comes by talking with her twin sister, Barbara, who is now a nun. They are now about forty.
Hey, Francesca. Barbara.
And here' s Mister Nazori.ne -- still makes the best tarelles in town. As Tony is greeting the old man:
Tony, Tony. I remember the day you. were born. A blizzard. And grandpa and Tessin and Clemenza were sitting out in the backyard in the snow with a five gallon jug of grappa, celebrating.
 Later, huh?
CZ.ose the door, please, ?rankie and make yourself comfor able.
Tony nods. All are seating themselves as:
It's a political assassination. The target is Asmanda Vidal.
Santino, whose attitude has been somewhat sardonic throughout, now breaks out in a bray of laughter. Tony turns on his cousin, then coldly and quietly:
If it's too much for you, just say so. M can break this off right now --- Santino, taken aback at the cold authority in Tony's manner, turns for support.
What did I say, for God sake.
Next February. ?!e' s having a week- long celebration o the Fif_'h. nn?.zr- ersar,7 of the Revolution.
Our Technical Services Division is experimenting in two areas. One is a scuba: diving wet suit designed to malfunction at a critical depth. The other is a toxic biological material -- a strain of botulism that's tasteless, colorless and odorless -- and so lethal that one drop on his food or an his toothbrush would be fatal inside of an hour.
That would mean getting somebody close to him.
Could that be done?
t think so.
t'm the cut-out. The circuit breaker.
The only link between our people and the Government'
That's right.
I thought these bastards wanted a hit --?- . They're locking for World War Three.
As Rocco Lempone -- who walks with a limp as a souvenir of his service in World War Two-- thinks about it, then:
You're starting to talk about a pretty big operation. You're going to need an assault team -- maybe two. Small arms. Ammo. Hand grenades. Field radios. A support network down there. You'll have to have transportation. Stag- ing areas.
The supplies can be made available.
How about getting them down there?
No problem. We can carry eight tons a trip in the DC Six.
I'll talk to. Doctor Earcenas,
And we'll all end :zn. Faith cu= balls - in the g='av.
I'm still young enough to whip your ass. As x'rankie starts to rise, Hagen puts a stop to any further discussion.
All-right. That's it.
There's no problem there. Every- thing will be handled through me and in cash.
You can tell your friends that they have a deal.
Good.
Tell them this too --- what the Corleone family wants for its part in this operation is the uncondi- tional pardon of Danny DeVito. And that will have to come first.
I don't know if they'll accept that.
It's a non-negotiable condition.
Devito?
Why not?
That would have to come right from the White Souse.
Where do you suppose the hit order came frog?
A doomsday car is a vehicle which is loaded with a high explosive, such as gelignite, and left in an area where it will do the most dam- age when detonated --
Do I read disapproval on your face, Mister Adams? AsNOTR NN-- ~' ..ncludina the tra:..'aing class. thirty or fort., men 4= army fatigues. Score are dark men, mustachiced., pass E :t iler Saudis cr Iranians. Amcnq t!?iese we finch Tony.
Although he doesn't answer the Instructor, we can read something less than total approval on his face.
In view of the fact that we're getting our butts kicked rosey all over the world, it might behoove us to take a lesson from the IRA and the PLO.
No I don't.
And that yonder is a doomsday ca_r.
including an old car set in a valley some two hundred yards away. The Instructor takes the detonator off safe and as he activates the charge in the doomsday car, we zoom in. The explosion fills the screen as the doomsday car is blown to hell.
chalked o ptograms on the blackboard behind him. They are variously, ODYOKc, 'ODACID, OD MM. AELAU ,, AEJAMMER, AEBROOM. Tt3DOV, =ESR, .KUCAGE.
The cryptonym is a name used in place of the true name. In the company, crtonyms consist of two letters that determine the general catagory followed by a word -- the United States Govern- ment is designated by the letters "O" and "D", and the word "Yoke".
What's that last one?
0-0--envy?
Hut two three four --
We move into the platoon, pick out Tony as he runs, not cocnti.nq. The Drill Instructor runs up alongside of Tony.
You're not singing, Mister Adams. Aren't you harpy is our little croup? As Tonv locks over at the : - acing Drill inst? ?c cor , h t en starts chanting a h --he zest C:iT To :
Good. shooting. You do a lot of hunting?
No.
Mast run is the family, then.
You might be right.
On the ordinary pin tumbler cylin- der lock, the spring actuated drivers are partly in the shell and partly in the plug. The. trick is to lift them up so the plug can turn freely --
Once you've gotten the lock picked and the door opened the best thing is to tape the bolt mechanism back so you won't have to keep picking the lock - As the Teacher Instrructs the class - a la Watergate break-inn -- how to tace back the bolt mechanism, we
This object is a United States Marine Corps killing knife. I.. will now demonstrate that it is not worth doodley shit if you don't know how- to use it.
as the Instructor looks around the circle of Officer Trainees and from them chooses Tony.
You.. You'd like to kill me, wouldn't you, Sir? Well, here's your chance. The Instructor tosses Tony the knife. Tony catches it. As they circle,. the Instructor taunts Tony.
Come on. Come on. Make a move, Sir. Are you falling in love with me? Then do something hostile. Make a face. Stick out your tongue. Do something, Mister Adams. Tony swings the knife. The Instructor avoids him.
My little bitty sister can make a better move than that, Six.
The Instructor offers a tempting target. Tony swings. The Instructor slaps his cap across Tony's face, grabs Tony's wrist and disarms him, throwing him to the ground.
The Instructor has been waiting for this. Re flips Tony again.- Tony lies inert an the ground. The Instructor comes up, beads to inspect Tony. As he does so:
All right, Sir. You --- Re breaks off as. Tony has driven an upper cut into the Instructor's balls. The Instructor grabs his groin and goes down in a heap.
Tony rolls to his feet, grabs up the killing knife and presses it to the Instrutor's throat.
All right you, son of a bitch, tell me about it.. The Instructor is looking at Tony. Suddenly he grins;
You're getting there, Mister Adams.
Tony looks at the knife in his hand, then tosses it away and starts off. At this point a jeep comes bouncing over the hill and skids to a breadsiding stop.. We see that PaJ.ateer is at the wheel.
tNT. RECREATION ROOM - CAMP PEAwM - DAY Palnateer is watching the Recreation Room television set on which there is a newscast of the ze ease of Danny DeVito frc n Leaveizwcrth..
Danny, almost as wide as he is tali., his broad pug- natious face wreathed in a grin, camas cut of the prison gate, his hands held up in the "Victory" sign. He pushes his way through the Television Cameramen and Newsmen, not saying anything. We pan him over to a limousine which he gets into quickly. The limousine drives off.
Today in Leavenworth, Kansas, one-- time International Brotherhood of Dockworkers' President, Danny DeVito i was. released. on pardon after serving six and. a half years of a fifteen year sentence an embezzlement and conspiracy charges. DeVito didn't state his future plans, but insiders expect him to challenge the incum- bent President, Pat Brady, in the up- coming election.
As Tony comes into the room, Palmateer gives him a pen and a couple of pieces of paper.
A couple of things for you to sign 6 before you go operational. This is for your piece --
As a large car pulls up and stops in front of Tony, he opens the door and gets into the backseat. We now might be able to see that F'rankie is driving. With him in the front seat is Santino. In the back- seat is Umberto Croce. INT'. THE L SOUS tNE - DAY as Tony gets in and sits next to Croce. General greetings, then Tony gives the briefcase to Croce.
Where to?
Take a right on Sixteenth Street.
As Croce sets the briefcase on his lap, Tony reaches into his pocket and gives him the key. Now Croce carefully unlocks the briefcase. As this is going on:
How's. your progress?
Doctor Barcenas is getting an assaS,ilt team together.
'Barcenas?
Let use of-12 at the next corner.
It's all there.
Straight frcm the East Coast Distributor. Tony looks over at Croce:
We're in business.
I' I L see you in Florida..
Hiss Duane, please.
Tony turns to watch a woman move off with two drinks- that were clearly his. 'Now, a. braided Admiral usurps Tony's place.
I believe I was next, Sir. The Admiral throws a look in Tony's direction, then pays for the bourbon and coke and exits.
Scotch-rocks. Here. Two.. EXT? TEE TERRACE  - NZGET On the broad, impressive terrace, overlooking the curve of the river- as it mirrors the lights of Washington, we find Elizabeth, dressed for evening. She is surrounded by three urbane men, Morton, her Television Producer, Swartzwalder, a Jurist and McKissick, a young Senator. McKissick is lighting Elizabeth's cigarette as Tony comes up with the two drinks.
Finally.
Thank God for 'the Navy. As she takes her drink:
Mister Adams,_ I'd like you to meet Judge Swartzwalder -- Senator McXissick and Jack Morton from wham all blessings flow ---
As long as the ratings hold up. As Tony is shaking hands around with the Judge, McKissick turns to Elizabeth:
Burning the midnight oil at State?
Tony has heard this last.
You stationed in Washington?
On temporary assignment.
He's doing a background on Azmando Vidal.
A fine. man. And thank God we're back on speaking terms -- or are we?
If you don' t know, who? A buzzer sounds from inside. Elizabeth hands Tony her glass.
Would you be an angel and Tony takes the glass from her, crosses and puts it on a nearby bench. As he does so, Elizabeth is Look- ing after him, as to the others:
I've always had a =ad thing for sailors- They've got such neat little asses. As Tony returns and escorts her back into the theater:
We are on the line of cars coming up to pick op their passengers outside the Eall of States. Mi..ch honking of Eioras, so on.
Tony hurries for the taxicab.
as. an Airforce General intercepts the cab.
Believe this is mine.
As she watches Tony get outranked for his cab, then she spots another.
f f ere comes another.
as. Tony hurries for the. next cab, only to get beaten cut by a. State Department type with two oil Sheiks in tow. STATE DEPART.'MiT TYPE You're next, Ensign. Tony turns, signals: to Elizabeth to wait, then exits.
She is pacing. She stops, looks at her watch, then turns at an insistent bbonking from -.edam: veway. We pull back and pan to include Tony s it ti_ng in a big, beautiful, official-looking sedans. ae leans across and opens the front door. She crosses and gets in.
ON HALL OF STATES DOORWAY  - NIGHT as an Admiral and his wife come out toward the drive- way with their guests. All are chuckling merrily at something the old sea dog has said. Now his wife's expression alters as she looks of.
Stop: Stop!
You have interesting talents, Mister Adams ..
You'll be astonished.
i I'm looking forward to it.
featuring Elizabeth as
Now. Now. Yes. Now
What's wrong?
Shh.
Noise in the living- room.
There's a window in the front room. It rattles.
I don't know.
Well, I do.
as Elizabeth swings out of bed, naked, crossing out of the bedroom and into the hall.
As a. Second Man appears. This one has a gun. The First Man turns to him, speaking in a whisper.
Bring him down here. The- Second. Max. nods. We follow him as very softly he goes down the hallway.
As: the Second Man stands motionless, Tony is on. his feet and up to him. Tony takes the qua from him and tossing it an the bed gestures, forefinger to lips, be quiet. Now, Tony turns to the Man and. starts down the hall with him. Tony has him by the back of the jacket, his Tun pressed against the back of the Second Man's head.
Turn very easy. The First Man turns, sees Tony and the Other Man.
S've got a. gun at your partner's head. There is 'a beat, then:
Drop the gun or I slit her throat.
You drop the knife.
Don't you think I'll kill her?
Z don't give a shit if you kill her. I_ said crop the knife.
As the Second Man -- overconfident at finding hi=self still alive -- speaks to his partner.
Cut her a little bit to convince this asshcle. Open up her throat. Suddenly the Second Man's knees buckle as. Tony, in a lightning move, brings the gun barrel down across the Man's head. As the Second Man is on his hands and knees, Zi.?ce a stunned ox, dripping blood on the carpet, Tony tuns once more to the an with the knife.
I'm going to give you one more chance. Trot the k:i-`f:a and !'I--l let you go .
as the Second Man, still on his hands and knees, now pushes himself up to a kneeling position.
Show him a little blood. As the Man with the- knife nods grimly, Tony puts his gun to the back of the kneeling man's head and calmly pulls the trigger.
The. kneeling man plunges for+qard, dead, the back of - his head blown off.. Tony now turns, without emotion, to the man with the knife.
That's what you're going to look like in two seconds if you harm that girl..
As the First Man drops his knife and releases Elizabeth, she is locking at Tony, stunned, her aplomb totally vanished.
Go get dressed and call the Police. Elizabeth nods and half-stumbles out of the room. Tony crosses to the Man.
when the cops come, you're going to be up on a murder rap, baby.
No, I'm not. Tony lifts the gun and blasts the First Man three times in the chest.
as Elizabeth bursts bac k into the room, looks, then starts to scream. Tony crosses up and taking her in his arms, softly comforts her.
It's all right.. He tried to get my gum away and I had to shoot him. As. Tony, still comforting her, moves her away, We --
Crewmen of the fishing boat are tieing up as Roberto Barcenas comes down onto the pier followed by half a dozen others. They are radio, Borracho, Padre Pepe,' El Fararon, Arrigo and Roberto's younger brother, Jorge. Croce and Roberto embrace, then :
This way. M=. As AIRSTRIP - DAY A rough airstrip has been bulldozed out of the scrib pine and palmetto forest. At one end is a hanger and on its side the words: INTER-CAR EAN CBAMTERS. As Croce and the Latin Americans come up:
Tony, I' d :like you to meet Doctor Barcenas.
I'm pleased to meet you, Doctor. They shake hands, then:.
Permit me to present my companions -- Indio, Borracho, Padre Pepe, El Fararon, Arrigo and my brother, Jorge. The members of the assault team -- the Indian, the Drunk, the Priest, the Pharoah, Arrigo who looks like a pimp, and the romantic, fire-eating younger brother -- are introduced to Tony individually. Xd lib greetings, then to Barcenas:
Are you read-!?
For many years. As they move into the hanger:
Z understand from Senor Croca that the idea with the diving suit did not work out.
There were a few problems.
But the other is. fine?
Yes. ,
we got you BARS and Carbines plus ten, thirty calibre light machine guns, and ten, four-point t o inch mortars with a thousand rounds of high explosive and a thousand, rounds of white phosphorous. Tony is pointing out the various boxes and crates:
What about sub-machine guns?
Thirty or; them. Tarty-five calibre nine millimeter. With ten thousand rounds. (po.ints Over there.
As Jorge crosses. over to the box of weapons, picks one up in his.hands:
Ten thousand rounds! Aye de mi!
as. Tony picks up and hands Roberto a long, olive green plastic tube.
We also got you two hundred Sixty- six, millimeter, M-72 LAW rockets. They're lightweight, one-shot dis- posable Bazookas.
We make a little trouble for E: Presidents, hey?
When do we leave?
You, go in tomorrow to get it ready. I'll meet you down there at the end of the week.
t am.
I'll show you the set up. As Tony and Padre Pepe move off together toward. a short wave radio set up in the corner, ae --
Here they came. We are pulling back. Also present in the large, attrac- tive office, are Tom Hagen, Danny DeVito and Sant no Corleone, who is at the bar fixing drinks.
Half an hour late.
0 I'm happy he's here at all. That means he's willing to talk like a reasonable man.
Tell A3..ieri about it.
What you've got to understand, Rocco, is that what happened to Al was business. What's done is done. The important thing is to avoid trouble if we can. This isn't the old days. The Five 'Family wars are over and done with.
Maybe that's too bad.
as Santino comes over with the drinks io Hagen and DeVito. As Danny accepts his-drink and raises it to
To you -- all of you. I'll never be able to thank you for what you done. As DeVito drinks, the intercom is buzzing. Hagen flicks it.
Mister Maatxocina and Mister Augusto are here, Sir.
Send them in, please.
Eagen comes around his desk to the door to greet Maatrocina as he enters, followed closely by the cold-looking Ralph Augusto.
Sam. Z'm glad. you could come. Ralph. Good to see you. What are you drinking?
Z'11 take a little bourbon with you._ On the rocks. Sagem nods at Santino who crosses to the bar to make the drink, as Hagen turns now to Augusto.
Ralph?
Nothing.
Coke?
Nothing.
As Santin_o is making the drink; Kaat--ocL-za tax.,.--ns to Danny DeVito, shaking hands.
Let. me save us all some time. I know the Hagen-Corleone Family got Danny sprung and I'm glad about it ---
Thank you, Sam. I :snow you mean it.
Yeah. That's right. You aren't the only ones with a friend or two in. Washington. Don't under- estimate me.
We never have, Sam.
One more thing I know -- Danny' s
How we can all accommodate to this new situation.
Problem being, for the vast five years the well dried up an us as you might say. It was almost as it Pat Brady had scmethin q against us personally.
T=, Tcm. "cu should have come to me.
You don't like to bother your friends about these matters.
What are friends for?
In any case, the problem is solved ar will be soon. Tice well is ao longer dry.
And. everybody gets to fill his bucket. That's as it should be. After us.
Meaning what exactly?
We need a loan of fifty million dollars. That has to be the first order of business ---
The Atlantic City Hotel?
1 That's right.
As Maatrocina makes flat paddles of his hands and points them inward to his chest as he turns to DeVito.
And what am t? An orphan? I want to get in on Atlantic City, too.
You had it all your way for the last five years, Sam. Let some- body else do business.
I got ao cb7ectio:t - ,a him doing business --- i just want to do business, too. Kay? What Hagen gets, :: get.
Are you talking about a hundred million dollars?
If fifty and fifty still make a hundred, that's what I'm talking about.
it can't be done.
Don`t you think I know how much money you-'ve got in that goddamned pension fund?
He's also got the Department of Labor, a board of trustees and the SEC looking down his throat. He can't make that large a commit- ment.
We` can't put more than twenty-five percent of our assets into real
Is that what you brought me across the country for?' To tell me I'm getting frozen out?
Nobody's freezing anybody.
Then why do I feel these chilly winds nipping at my ass?
You should felt the winds in that joint. It was Sagen that got me out.
How f2ar second?
Youtve gat to. give me a year.
We both want tc get into Atlantic City. L can't give them a year's head. start.
asDe Vito looks over at Tom Eagen.
Tom? What if-you people take thirty and Sam takes twenty?
T have to have fifty. That`s defw I inite.. You knew it and agreed to it in front.
Sc that we can all part friends --- what about forty-ten?
I st. not taking any ten. What they get. I get. That is final.
I All. right, All right. Maybe Z can work something out. Z' 11 try`. MAATROC n A Try hard.
Maatrocina glances over at Augusta. They rise.
Thank you for coming, Dan Haatro-- cina. I'm. sure we can find a way to live toget?..er in peace.
Of course, my old friend, :Kaatrcc: na ad ? i s aoodbves a; ound and and Angus Lo
49
I'm counting on it.
As Lampone crosses to the window to watch Augusto and Maatrocina leave through the pool area below, Hagen moves to Danny DeVito.
I'd like to put a couple of people with you,, Danny.
I don't need your people, Tom.
I'll take a rain check.
As Devito grins, shakes hands around and exits, Hagen turns to Santino.
I want you to fly to Washington tonight. Talk to Senator Geary. Anybody you have to. But find out who ' s on Maatrocina' s payroll.
Neither do 1.
You think he's walking into some- thinq down there?
That's what I want you to find out. As Santino turns and goes, we ---
as the crowd laughs and cheers them on.
Aqua! We move up to a loud speaker attached to an ornate and bunting festooned.lampost. From the speaker we hear:
But make no mistake, any of you -- you of the North American delega- tion in particular. We welcome you to our Count=y -- but the days of exploitation are over.
As the predominantly Latin American crowd cheers, we pick out Tony, in civilian clothes, amongst. the' cheer- ing people.
The blood of our martyrs is still too fresh on our pavement. We will be friends and neighbors, but never again slaves to Imperialism.
As Arrigo goes, Tony looks after him briefly, then over to the American Delegation including Lucas, the Assistant Secretary of State for Latin American Affairs; Cariock, the Speaker of the House and several prominent liberal Senators including McKissick of Utah and the elegant Harthaiemew of Pennsylvania. Also in the delegation, in uniform, is Stu Palmateer. The older man's eyes meet with Tony's for a brief moment. He has seen the exchange. He watches as Tony leaves, then looks over toward u_agudo, Vidal's
With all due respect, that's bull- shit.. The man's obviously inccm- petent or the car wcu: d have been
She breaks cf-f . seei nc Tony.
Hi. She stops. Ee crosses up:
r thought you weren't coming down here. She doesn't answer.
Aren't we speaking?
We are on Arrigo who stands outside the flaw of traffic, cigarette in his mouth, patting his pockets for a match. Tony comes- up and lights ArrigoIs cigarette. As he
Se sure you have your identification. Maguda's pescadores -- you understand? The Police -- they're out f.sh..:g tonight. We are on aaather c=oup Of G-4-is azd :Men i a ?rildly sexual dance.
We pan off them to Arrigo passing. Tony follows. We move. in closer to Tony. A big, fat Mama comes out of a doorway, shakes everything she has at him. Tony grins, pats her on the ass and -passes by
Yes.
This way. Jorge leads them aboard.
One Man is cleaning a stripped automatic rifle. Another is loading a banana. clip with 30 calibre bullets. Barcenas, the girl and some others are bent over a map on the mess table. All. cook up as Tony, Jorge and Arrigo enter. T _tobertc smiles warm- , canes up and embraces Tony. (C'J1?I'r ?`ILT'ED i
It's good to see you, my friend.
Everything is ready. Arms and aumm=ition distributed. Now the waiting.
You've set a time?.
Day after tomorrow. Seven A.M.
Good.
You have something for me?
as Tony unbuttons his shirt and strips off a money belt which he puts on the table and opens. 'IIe takes out some money.
A hundred thousand pesos, cash. Count it, please. As Roberto takes up the money and counts it., Tony takes out a small vial in a plastic container.
And this.
How soon does it work?
The symptoms are those of botulisat. High fever, nausea, vomiting, and death. Within an hour.
Yes..
As Anjelica turns, her coat swings open slightly and we see that she is dressed in a costume.-- a typical Tropicana showgirl kind of thing.
Thank you.
For nothing. When we meet again things will be better.
Be careful of 4agudo's fishermen. They're out in force tonight. Anjelica nods. Roberto hands her the money, then kisses her on. the cheek.
Vaya can Dios, Chica.
She staffs the money in the pocket of the overcoat and exits. Roberto looks at A..-.rigo who nods and follows her out. Vow Roberto looks back at Tony.
Have the supporting omeratic n.s been set urz? E
Jorge crosses to a map on the table.
Over in one corner of the lobby we see Palmateer in a group with several others of the United States Delegation. Tony raises a hand to Palmateer who nods back as Tony continues toward the elevators.
Senor Adams. Tony stops. The u::==sing Security Officer crosses ."p to m .
Yes?
There is a message for you. A friend. of yours wishes to see you in the bar. tN'I'. HOTEL DE LA REVOLUCION BAR - NIGHT The place is reasonably crowded, even at this hour. We are on Elizabeth Ann Dunne who is the center of a small circle of admirers, including Kenny Morton. She looks off, sees Tony entering, then excuses her- sel-f and crosses up to Tony who stands in the doorway.
as Elizabeth comas up to him.
I want to talk to you.
I take it this definitely means we're speaking again. She draws him to an empty booth and as they sit:
I'm going to tell you a secret. It wouldn't take an awful lot for me to get hung up on you. Okay? But I've got this problem --
What are you talking about?
You, sport. Adams, Anthony. No middle initial.
What makes you thi:Lk --l'm not with the Navy? 1 CO 1 .i...Y U 0
Tou know what I heard in Washington? That something very interesting might happen down here.
-Where did you hear that?
You wouldn`t know anything about it, would 'you?
I want to know where you heard that.
What difference does it make, it's --- Tony is on his feet and moving oui of the bar ae 2.
Stu? As Tony comes up:
Scmething wrong?
I don' t know. They wove casually toward the newsstand. Palmateer Picks up a'Spanish language newspaper, idly scans it,
What's the problem?
Sow many people know about t:-his mission? oAL.u.ATv-ZR Why?
Z think there's been a leak in Washington.
There are only five people who have any idea what's going on.
is Artier Grundellius one of them?
Yes.
F Then maybe it's not that serious. -
I If yon think the mission's compro- mised, we'll abort.
No. I think it's all right.
Palmateer crosses to the elevator as Tony moves back toward the barroom. We move with Tony as a Bellboy intercepts him.
Senor Adams? There is a phone call for you. You can take it on the house phone if you like. Tony nods,.tips the Boy, then crosses to the house- phone and picks it up.
Yes?
You zeccgnize my voice?
You better net down here right away,
What in the hell's going on around here?
Z don't know.. Tony turns and crosses out of the lobby as we ---
we are close on the pack-marked, hawk-faced Policeman who was present at the Police Station when Anjelica and Arrigo were brought in.
I'm positive, Doctor 3arcenas. AS soon as they found the hundred thousand pesos in her pocket, they called Colonel Magudo In- T. came as soon as I could.
She's being questioned now? The Policeman nods. tRoberto turns to Tony.
You have to 'assume they'll be tortured. You have to assume that they'll talk.
Then you're going to have to move right now.
Jorge start: passing out weapons and hand grenades. Tony takes a su.?:-.machine gun and checks it, as we ---
We are shooting down into the square from behind Lopez as Ruiz comes up and joins him. We see the two cars stop outside the jail, and the occupants pile out. Tony, Jorge, Roberto and Indio from the first car, Sorracho, Pepe and 'araron from the second. They are all armed, carrying LAW rockets and slung-sub-machine guns.
as he jumps up onto the parapet, cocks his own machine gun and fires down into the square. As his bullets stitch the cobblestones moving up toward the group.
At the sound of Ruiz 's first shot, he's got his sub- machine gun in his hands. He fires from the hip. Lopez throws up his hands, falling back. Ruiz spins on the parapet and falls into the street.
Mosca sits against the wall, mouth open. His leg lies across the room. The Prisoners in the holding cage are screaming. A Policeman runs in from another room just in time to be cut down by Jorge who bursts through the door followed by Tony and Roberto.
as Jorge, Tony and-Roberto all `ire at the same time, blowing Magudo back down the basement stairs. Tony and the others dive down the stairs.
A.: the sleepy Soldiers come tumbling cut of the build- ing in confusion, Barracho is spraying them with his automatic weapon while the other two are blowing the front doors away with their rockets. Smoke and plaster dust is heavy in the square. rives start to lick and flicker.
As Borracho, Pepe and.Fararon run into the Presidential Palace, somebody has started pealing the bells of the Cathedral.
This way. EEO rugs up the stairway, by the others. At the top of the stairs he turns, fires at the chaia that holds the chandelier anchored. The ceiling chews away. The chandelier falls with a crash of crystal.
There are a dozen doors leading into a dozen basement- cells- Tony, Jorge and Roberto are searching them. Tony enters a cell, then we hear:
Roberto! As Roberto hurries into the cell
Quick! Roberto runs in, whips out a knife and as Tony grabs the motionless body, the other cuts the line.
As they gently lay Arrigo's body on the floor, it is apparent he is dead.
motheY of God.
We have panned over to the door. We are now shooting toward the door with our view mainly blocked out, but we can see that Anjelica is dead, naked and tied spread- eagled, face down on a table.
As E'ararcn cuts the Soldier down, then turns to Pepe:
Hey: This way. They stop. Fara_-cn and 2epe are standing _ in -: mouth of a i?.tp e n,ar-r-cw open -ig between houses
as Pepe and Fararon disappear into the darkness follow- ed by Tony, Roberto and Jorge.
Pepe runs up, looks in. Tony and the others follow.
The keys are gone!
Get in. Tony is under the dashboard crossing the wires as the others start piling in. The motor starts, Tony slides behind the wheel. As they drive off ---
Which way?
Lett.
Four. They will land at Quebrada. Roberto looks at his watch, then
We can make it. Left again.
We have seen the terrorists. They are in Police Car Twenty-too going north on Avenue of the Martyrs.
Now other traffic can be heard on the Police radio as other Police cars respond to the message.
of various Police cars as they get the message. Some swing around in Q-turns, Their sirens are winding up to a howl.
.;esus, Mary and Joseph. 
`Cis;n7VED % As another bullet hits the car somewhere with a clang. of metal, Roberto turns td Tony:
As he drives, we see that Roberto has taken from his knapsack-pouch a mall detonating device such as we have seen in the demonstration of the doomsday car at Camp Peary.
Come on! Do- you want to ---
Roberto has broken off as he looks at-Fararon. We realize that sometime during the chase the Pharoah has taken a bullet in the chest. Se's dying, and pink bubbles of blood fora and break on his lips as he stiizggles for breath.
I'm sorry, old friend. Tony crosses and gets back into the car to help Fararon.
I'm afraid he's finished. At this point we hear:
Here they come:
as Jorge, Pepe and Roberto run to the center of the airstrip, looking upward. We can hear the sound of an approaching aircraft.
as he points a flashlight at the sky and signals a short and a long, the letter Alpha. AlNCTRER A0IGL.E - I:IC=1r--NG `"HE OC-6 The aircraft is now visible. ?rcm the Pilot's coc pit we see the answering signal , a long and th--ee shorts, the letter Bravo.
Wait a minute.
Xfi. RIM OF THE ETT.r. as the two jeeps come up to the rim of the hill. One jeep turns a powerful spotlight onto the airfield. The A.IRPT T-fl - NIGHT' as the spotlight catches Roberto, Pepe and Jorge in its beam.
as he turns and fires at the jeep loads of Soldiers with his automatic rifle.
as it starts to pick up speed, trundling over the. rough ground.
as he runs for the plane. ON ?RAl?1Z as he sees Tony. A,NoTr.. ER ANGLZ As Tony :'ims up -o the m lane , =rarekie reaches down, drags him up and in. Bu-1-let hales are apvearing the fuselage of the plane.
The cetinter-revolution has failed. The. people once more did not -rise up as expected.
They burned American flags and threatened the safety of the Amer-
as limousines 4ith soldiers on the ;enders and roofs come inching through the fist-waving, threatening mob. As the gates are opened, Soldiers with bayoneted rifles force the crowds back so that the cars can get through,
In the American group we see Elizabeth Ann Dunne; the Senators McKissick and Barthalemew; Assistant Secretary Lucas; Speaker of the House, Cari.ock; and Stu Palmateer, looking cooler than he could possibly feel.- Over this
Meanwhile in the Nation's Capitol, Arne Grvndellius, the Secretary of State, was beseiged by Newsmen as he left the State Depa.tent after an all-night session. CLOSER - ON GRt'YDELL tD S as the Newsmen are thrusting microphones into his face, asking questions.
Mister Secretary! Mister Secretary! Can we get a statement? Grnndelli.us stops. GRIINDE,tLZUS We will make an official statement tomorrow. NEWS ii TOGETRER What about Vidal's accusations -- Have you Xosygia's statement? will you speak to the United lations? Was Doctor Barcenas an 1nerican agent?
P One at a time. One at a time.
According to world opinion, the CIA was behind this.
Gentlemen: Gentlemen: I am late for a meeting at the White House i but we catagorically deny these allegations. The United States Government does not use assassin- ation as an iastrent of foreign policy.
AS G-=de? ii us starts to move throuch --he crowd of 3eoorters, (CCNT_-6 _qT '
What about the rumors' that the under- world was involved in this?
If the underworld was behind it and I don't rule out the possibility at all -- that fact will be brought to light in open hearings before a- special committee of Congress. It's in the works right this minute, and subpoenas will be coming out by the weekend.
Tony has turned off the television set with a remote control switch, having heard the. sound of a key in the front door. He rises and turns as Elizabeth enters carrying a paper bag.
Listen, I -- He breaks off as Elizabeth's face goes pale with shock and she drops the bag on the floor. A couple of oranges roll across the rug as:
I'm sorry, I had to talk to you She looks at him her expression almost readable as anger;
You're listed as missing. It's on the wire.
Well, much as I.hate to disappoint everybody.
Suddenly Elizabeth drops to her knees and starts crawling around on the floor, blindly searching for the oranges.
Bey, wait a minute He kisses her.
What's all. this crying shit? She smiles, sniffles, blinks the tears out of her eyes,
You want an egg sandwich?
Hello? NT. MoREHCIISE's O TI Y  - NI zHT
This is Captain Pa.TLrnateer. I got a message to call this number.
as she speaks into the phane
Yes. Hold on for a minuts, will you. + ( ( ( to Tony??yy Is your call.
Tony crosses over and takes the phone.
Stu?
Are you all right?
Considering.
Good.
How are you?
Ten kinds of blue hell are breaking loose out here. Are you all right at that number till tomorrow?
Fes.
Then I' 11 get back to you. Click, as Palmateer hangs up. Tony t.irns to Elizabeth.
I hope you don't mind a house guest.
Sam wants to see you.
I'= at the Pcnchartrain. Ralph takes Danny by the arm and moves him toward a chauffeured limousine waiting at the curb. As he does
Now. Tonight. He's got an idea how to get everybody off the hook. As.Augusto opens the door and ushers Danny into the back seat of the car, we ----
We'll go in the back way.
I Yes Sir. The Chauffeur turns down a side street and up an alley.
Give him the horn. The Chauffeur honks the horn. The Laborer grins over at the limousine, gestures, palms up.
So we walk. It's not far.
as Augusta, Danny Devito and the Chauffeur move up toward the rear of the truck, the Laborer jumps down off the big barrel he's been sitting on.
Hello Danny. At this point the Chauffeur wheels and grabs Devito in an arm lock, with one gloved hand clamped over his mouth.
as a knife suddenly glitters in his hand and he plunges it into Devito. Danny is kic-ting and st-aggling.
Hold the cocksucker still.. As Augusta plunges the knife into Danny again and again and again. AN WAVZ"11 r?Nf:I.E The Laborer has taken the lid of, the barrel. Danny sinks to the pavement, convulses and dies.
as the three men pick up Devito`s body, stuff him into the barrel, then hoist the barrel into the back of the truck. The jazz tr ttpet is sti l playing, as we --
Wha_ is it?
Your friend, DeVito --- The TV` set has warmed up and now the Newscaster's voice comes over the pict'..ire of a middle-class house in Bayonne, New Jersey.
There have been no ransom demands and the Devito family -- although concerned -- are not yet alarmed.
As the Television Newscaster switches to another item, we see a burning house, fire engines, so on.
Long Beach, New York. In a possibly related incident, the home of re- puted Syndicate figure Santsno Corleone was firebombed early this morning. Corleone, thirty-five, is in guarded condition at Saint Catherine's hospital with first } degree burns over two thirds of his --- Tony is out of bed. Be has switched off the TV set and crossed to the phone.
Long distance =;fc_aa,ion, please. h T e number of the Ve?as ?alms ---
as Rocco Lampcne crosses up to him.
Let's go.
as Tony follows Lampone.
I He looks around. There is a car full of Button Men in front of them. Another car full of button men behind. Rocco nods. Gets a nod back >rom each driver.
as the cars drive out om! the ai Ci .. a 1 e, 2Eagef' S car in the middle.
Danny's dead. They found him in a barrel at the mouth of the Mississippi.
Maatrocina?
It's going to be bad for a while, that`s wby I wanted you out here. It's time you-Jesus Christ Fritz This last as another car swings out of a side street and a Hood leans out of the rear window with a t.reLve gauge p=p gun, and blasts at Fritz.
as the Corleone Button Men in the following car blasts at the attackers, the Shotgun Man blasts away.
The Hagen car comes to a s tor on its wheels again. The Corleone Butt-an Men it the fol icwinc ca= -snt? cut, run up.
As Rocco Lampone comes out of the wreckage, the Button men are pulling Tony -- who is unconscious -- out. Lampone looks at Fritz and Hagen.
Not a goddamned thug you can do for them. Let's get out of here.
As The Corleone Men carry Tony to the other ca= and get him inside, people are starting to gather.
It's all right. It's all right. Gangway. We're getting him to the hospital! Man's hurt here! Clear the road:. As the Bystanders move back, the Corleone car burns rubber and digs out
MT. BEDROOM  - NIGTT Camera is subjective, the screen is pitch black with a single red-orange dot moving erratically in the center. It is the coal of a cigarette as someone takes a last puff, tamps it out, then scratches a match and. lights another. In the flare of the match we see a Nurse's bulldog face.
Who are you?
OY., gc?od, you're awake.
Wait a minute.
I'll be right back. The nurse has risen. She switches on a lamp and exits. ANOThR ANGLE We are angled into a mirror over a chest of drawers, holding on Tony as he sits up in bed, then gingerly gets to his feet. He is wearing silk pajamas. Now he crosses to the mirror and checks himself out. Aside from the bandage he seems to be in one -piece. Now, in the mirror we see the door open and silhou- etted in the doorway, the figure of Michael. Tony turns. ANOTffER ANGL - as Tony and Michael look at one another for. a long moment.
How are you feeling?
What am I doing here? As Michael comes into the room and closes the door:
I had Rocco bring you.
A little.
The Doctor says it's nothing.to bother you, but I've always found it's easier to be brave about some- body else's headache.
Did he say how soon T could leave?
Sit dcwn. Sim down..
Tony doesn't sit down.
r'd like to get out of here as soon as possible.
Let me ask you a question. Have you any idea where you stand?
I'm not totally stupid.
I aC 't think you're stupid. I think you're smart. 3 t not smart enough.
t'n willing to learn.
Good.
Are 'you sure? Michael answers that question with a look: Of course in sure.
The question to ask is this: Who knew you were flying to Las Vegas?-
The girl I was staying with and --- Tony breaks off:
Someone f_ cm Langley?
Before I left, I called a man named Stuart ?almateer. 
I told Tom Hagen -- God rest his soul --- but I warned him. it was a. mistake -- that whole Vidal business. As the only contact between our people and the Government you had no protec- tion. You were naked.
As Tony sits. He's not sure whether he likes or trusts or is ready to forgive his father, but he knows the sound of good sense when he hears it.
How long do you think the-Administra- tion would last if it were to come out that the President used the Corleone family to assassinate the head of a foreign state.
The question is rhetorical.
Michael takes out a cigar and goes about the ceremony of lighting it.
I'm not supposed to smoke these things, but it, isn't every day a man's son comes home.
You were saying?
Every year- -- on February third -- I've sent you a check. Those ohecks were never cashed
Would you like to '.cacw why?
r've always know why -- and z res- pect your reasons. But, neverthe- less, I'm your lather and anything t have is yours - if it's money you want, my friendship, the benefit of my experience -- if you'll accept it. It's yours.
I I need your advice.
 There are two ways I see to handle this. First, I can make you dis- appear in. Sicily until everything blows over. Things change. Men get old and angers cool. In four or five years you could probably be safe to come home again..
What's the other way?
0 The other way is a gamble that you could lose.
Think about it. Sleep on it. We'll talk again in the morning.
Your father will be out in a moment.
are many Pictures, mostly in heavy silver frames. Some are studio portraits. Some are grainy blow-ups of snapshots. Tony crosses to the table of pictures.
as he picks up the picture of the Godfather, remem-
We are on the door as Michael enters. He pauses for a moment, then:
as Tony turns from the table full of pictures with his grandfather's framed portrait still in his hand.
Yes.. As Tony puts down the picture, Michael comes up.
Do you remember him with admira- tion and respect?
Z remember that I loved him.
0 So did I.
I've been thinking about these choices. Michael holds up his hand to delay the decision.
Talk with me for a moment.
It's a special honors program for First Classmen.
You liked Annapolis?
Yes.
Enough to make a life in t e Navy?
No. Not that much.
2 was surprised you didn't go to Dartmouth.
I thought about it, but Kay wanted me to go to Annapolis and the price was right.
How's Hanover these days?
About the same.
I always liked that town. That' S where Z met your mother -- when I was going to school up there.
I know.
I'd planned to live there, you know. Teach maybe -- or go into law. A. little office on Wheelock Street. Deeds and wills. I would have liked that.
Why didn't you do it?
Because one day a Sicilian pimp and dope peddlar named Virgil Solla2 O tried to assassinate my father -- your grandfather -- and I had to do something about it.
is this so bad? Sa don't know. it depends or. what you call terrib? e . You have to
MICHAEL live a certain way --- a cold way - or you won't live long.
You know what happened to ?'redo?
He died didn't he?
I had him killed. My own brother. It was something r had to do -- or felt I had to.
Why?
He went against the family. So I waited until our mother died and then I -- (breaks off ,
Not too many people are fitted for this kind of a life. I've had to do mazy hard things, but sending you and your sister away -- that was the hardest.
There is a beat. To= and his father look at each other and for a moment we feel that Tony is going to cross to his father, then the moment passes:
And now, that I've said t~ at, I'd like to hear your decision.
I don't th.iL k I'd ? ike Sicil v
Good.
t N T. CIA BUILDING  - DAY As Tony, in civilian clothes, passes through the inner- checkpoint with his legitimate credentials.
Come in Adams, sit down. I've called Stu in on this --
Though I'm afraid I can't give you much time. I've got a brief- ing with the Z-orty Committee at noon.
what I have to say won't take long.
Sow's your health? I understand you got a crack on the head?
I'm fine now.
you were up at your father's place in Tahoe? T::at d s rig
Has he changed much?
Not as much as I' d. expected.
We're wasting each other's time with this, Mister Morehouse.
But before we start, I'm not going to listen to a lot of recriminations about that cveration. Your people blew it, pure and sim le. It was totally mishandled. A mistake from beginning to end.
The big mistake was that I'm still alive.
Come again?
11 you'd managed to get rid of me down there - or in Vegas -- you' d be all right. silt it's too Late now. You've lost your chance.
I don't know what the hell you're talking about. 
If anything should happen to me -- anything at all -- you can find out. The full story will be all over the six o'clock news.
I'd like to hear your conception of the full story..
You were running a no-lose operation. if we succeeded, you were rid of Vidal. -- if we failed, the Corleone family was set up to take the blame. Your hands were clean. I was the only one who could dispute your story and I wasn't supposed to come back. I've found out that my res- ignation from the Navy was processed and accepted a full week before I went down here ---
Stu?
Well, yes, Sir. His resignation did
A clerical error.
And I don't buy it.
don't give a shit if you buy it or not. And I'll tell you some- thing else, Mister Adams, or what- ever your fucking name is, I don't react favorably to blackmail.
It's not blackmail. It's a simple statement of fact. If anything happens to me or if the Corleone Family is damaged iz these Senate Hearings, then the whistle blows and the whole zdmin .st_ation aces.
And what makes you think T. give a shit about what happens to the Admin- istration? Morehouse grins without humor. Tony's eyes flicker. Morehouse has told something that Tony needed to know. Morehouse is up and coming around the desk, as he continues. _
Whatever I did was done under dix- ect orders from the President of the United States, and I. will. so testify in open hearing. if that upsets some of you= guinea gumbarrs in Nevada, then so be it. The days are over when your father and his like could corrupt and intimidate this Nation.
No. You've taken over the job.
Your five minutes are up -- now get the hell out of here. As Tony turns and goes, Morehouse glares after him, the glint of victory in his eyes.
Planted In front of all this, speaking to a TV camera, is Elizabeth Ann Dunne.
This is Elizabeth Ann Dunne coming to you from outside, the. Senate. Caucus Room where the Senate Select Co=i.--tee on Intelligence is meeting this morn-- ing ..,...
This last to the polished Senator Barthalemew of Pennsylvania who pauses in front of the camera.
This is Senator Paul Barthalemew Of Pennsylvania who will chair the Committee.
Thank you, Senator.
ZNT. SE35MTw CAUCUS ROOM - DAY Barthalemew is. pounding his gavel for order.
Take your seats, please. Sergeant at Arms' Will. you see that every- an takes his seat? We pan over to the door as Tony enters and finds a seat.
as Prankie Rizzi and Rocco Lampone are coming up the hill toward Augusto. They pause:
Hey Ralph? Augusta torus. His eyes flicker to the gun, then back to Rocco and Frankie. He smiles warmly:
Hey Rocky. Whaddya say? Waddya doin' up here?
for Neri and DeVito. Frankie and Lampone have spoken almost simultaneously, and as they speak, their guns are out and blasting. ANCTHwR ANGLE - ON AaGt7STO
as he stands his ground, blasting. Twice. 171A%ree times. Four times.
as Augusta wavers, his face goes slack and he plunges into the ground at F'rankie' s feet. The ax has fallen from his hands.
IN'r . S MIATE CAUCUS ROOM - OAT ?Among the Senators an the Committee, we recognize Mc:tissick and mossib? y we w i-11. remember old Geary, from Nevada. Tonv is an interested spectator as 3artha? amew,r quest ions the witness, Martin Davideau.
And.'what light can you throw on this matter, Mister Davideau?
S have. a memo here from the Director of the FBI to the Director of the CIA with copies to the Army, Air Force, Navy and State Department Intelligence Offices. It states that one of our informants -- well, I' l1 read it (ro
'during. a recent conversation with several friends, underworld figure Sam Maatrocina, stated that there was going to be an attempt on Armando Vidal' s life and this attempt --- this hit, in the argot -- was to be carried out by another underworld
Did this informant identify the other underworld family?
0 so Sir, he did not.
Would you care to speculate,
Just a minute, Senator -- I whole- heartedly object to this Committee being used as a for,= for spec- ulation based on an anonymous report of an alleged conversation. Reput- tations. could be recklessly and i --e- grievably damaged.
Very well, very well. We wouldn't want to damage any of the constituency of my esteemed Collegue from Nevada. --
Many thanks to the distinguished Sv..nior Senator from our Wes tern Sister State of Utah.
Yes?
A couple of gentlemen here from the Internal Revenue, Mister Maatrocina.
Yes sir.
All right. Send 'em in.
The door buzzes open and. two young,- rather conserva- tive looking Men, enter with briefcases.
What- is this? Some kind of a roust?
It's about your income tax, Sir.
My taxes are handled by the biggest firm of accountants in New York City. It costs me a hundred thousand doll- ars a year and you two assholes in cheap- suits are going to come in here
Sam Maatroci.na breaks off. The Second Young man has hit him an open-handed karate chop on the side of the neck. Now, before Maatroctna can speak or cry cut, the Aan has hit :taatrocina a seccad chop, shat- ter .ag his adams apple.
As Maatrocina goes to his knees, his eyes goggling, the First Young Man has crosses to the window and opened it. Now he and the Second Young Man carry the wide-eyed New York Don to the window and throw him out.
No. No. What I'm trying to get from you, General, is, as Director of the Central Zntelligence Agency, did you ever have any kind of order in writing authorizing you to assass- inate the head of a foreign state?
No, Sir. Z did not.
Well, come on now.. That's hardly the thing that would be put in writing, now is it?
Well what would it be put n 44 aol writ=q?
X suggest that it would be put into the same kind of phraseology that Henry used to his Barons when he said, 'Will, no one rid me of this turbulent priest?' He didn't tell them to go kill Thomas --z6 Beckett., but the final result of it was murder in the Cathedral ---
What has Thomas 3.~ Beckett got to do. witii the subject at hand? ---
If the Distinguished Senator from Nevada will refrain from ---- Ba -halemew is beating with the gavel on his desk.
Gentlemen: Gentlemen!
as Tony takes a bite of his hot dog.
These are good. You ought to stave one.
I don't have a lot of time, Tony.
First, I wanted to say that although I'm sure that I was set--um to be killed down there, I never thought you were mixed up in i t.
Z hear that Morehouse is being called in by the CommI tree to testify.
So they tell me.
Well if he does -- and. I'm telling you this as a friend --- he's going to bring the roof down on him self --- and you too. As Pa.lmateer puts the newspaper down, looks at Tony:
That's definite, Stu.
as Morehouse goes to the cabin. The snap lock has been unlocked and the hatchway is open. There is a dim light in the cabin.
Stu? P Z;? yR Down here.
What the hell is this?
Is he dead? Palmateer kneels to check Morehouse. PAL.yATEER Yes.
So are you. i Lampone had leaned down, put the gun to Palmateer's head and pulled the trigger.
Bridge.
Bridge aye.
That yawl looks like it's adrift.
As Morehouse's sailboat drifts in the calm, it's sails up and motionless, it's tiller untended. The patrol boat noses up:
Ahoy, the yawl. You all right? - No answer. The Bosun jumps aboard.
Hello? Avon Lady. if anybody down there's doing anything they shouldn't, now's the time to - Tae Bosun has looked down into the cabin. 3e breaks off and turns back to the Patrol boat.
Get on the horn to base. We got two bodies here.
k =. SFYLATE CAUCUS ROOM - DAY Arne Grundellius is at the witness table.
And in conclusion, I'd like to say that I believe these hearings have served a great, good purpose. in spite of the fears that the hear- ings would do hartto the fabric of democracy, our Nation's stronger to- day in the knowledge that we do not export revolution or use murder as an extension of diplomacy.
as Grmdelli.us fi.'2is:?es, Geary And one or wwo others rise, applatsd.i.r.g.
Hear. Hear. ANOTHER ANGLE - THE At7D IENCE Tony and Elizabeth are together. Elizabeth is applaud- ing Grundellius. Tony looks over at her.
Mister Secretary, Senator Geary, I'd like to present Tony Adams. There are general greetings, and then, as they move S toward the doors.
I believe we have mutual friends in Nevada, Mister Adams.
Yes Sir. I believe so.
If there's ever anything I can do you come see me.
I might just take you up on that, Senator. As they exit ----
It is sunset. Tony and Elizabeth are walking toward the capital building, outlined against a pink sky. As they walk toward J.-_ we begin to hear t .he Gcdwa ther
SLOW DISSOLVE
