Madam Grusinskaya will not want her car.
Cancel Madam Grusinskaya's car.
Where is that gentleman's soup?
Where's that soup?
Quick -- come on -- come on...
 Yes.
 Cold.
 Mr. Preysing...
 Yes...
Telephone -- from Fredersdorf --
Mr. Preysing from Fredersdorf -- his call.
Yes, Mr. Preysing --
 They've gone -- Just a moment, sir...
 You told me it was on -- you said the call was through. 
 Who's in number three?
Senf -- the hall porter. 
Yes, it's Senf, the head porter, Grand Hotel... Are you at the Clinic?,... How's my wife?,... Is she in pain?,... Isn't the child coming soon?,... Patience! It's easy for you to talk... Get away?,... No, I can't -- I'd lose my job. It's like being in jail. Oh, I hope the child comes along all right.
Hello! Long Distance?,... Get off the wire... No... I was talking to Fredersdorf... What?,... Oh... Hello!... Is that you dear?... How is everything at home?... What do you hear from the factory?... No... How are the children?... I left my shaving set at home... Yes, is your father there?... Hello, father?... Our stock has gone down twenty-three points. If our merger with the Saxonia doesn't go through -- I don't know what we can do... Hello, hello... yes, papa. Rely on me -- everything depends on Manchester... If they refuse to come in -- well, we will be in bad shape... no... Rely on me, I'll make it go through -- I'll make it go through... Waiting?... Yes, I'm still speaking...
 Hello, Mr. Meierheim?... Is that, Mr. Meierheim?... This is Suzette... Suzette, Madam Grusinskaya's maid... No... Madam Grusinskaya will not go to the rehearsal... No... Madam is in a terrible state, she didn't sleep all night -- She's very tired... No, I'm speaking from a booth -- I didn't want to speak in front of her... I gave her a tablet of veronal... She's sleeping now... You had better come to the hotel, I'm afraid...
 Baron Gaigern speaking. Yes, Baron Gaigern himself. Where are you?,... Good... No -- first, I need money. I need it right now. I have to make a showing... That's my business. I hope to do it tonight... at the theatre or after the show... But money -- for the hotel bill, for tips... I don't need advice, I need money!... Now, listen...
Who is that, This is... Hello, hello!... Who is that... Heinrich? This is Kringelein. Hello, Heinrich. This is Otto Kringelein. Hello! Can you hear me?... I've got to speak very quickly. Every minute costs two marks ninety... What?... Otto Kringelein! Yes, I'm in Berlin, staying at the best hotel, the Grand Hotel... No, don't you understand? I want to explain, but I must do so quickly, it costs so much. Please don't interrupt me -- hello? Hello! Listen! You know that will I made before my operation? I gave it to you. I want you to tear it up. Destroy it. Because, listen, I came to Berlin to see a great specialist about that old trouble of mine... It's pretty bad, Heinrich. The specialist says I can't live much longer.  I haven't long to live! That's what's the matter! Hello, hello. Are you on the line? No, it isn't nice to be told a thing like that. All sorts of things run through your head. I am going to stay here in Berlin. I am never coming back to Fredersdorf. Never! I want to get something out of life, too. You plague, and bother, and save -- and all of a sudden you are dead. Heinrich... You don't say anything. I am in the Grand Hotel, do you understand, the most expensive hotel in Berlin? I'm going to get a room here. The very best people stay here. Our big boss, Preysing, too. I saw him -- not five minutes after I was here. Sometime, I'd like to tell him exactly what I think of him. Listen, Heinrich -- I have taken all my savings; my life insurance, too; I cashed in all my policies, the sick benefit fund, the old age pension, the unemployment insurance, the burial fund and everything... What's that, miss?... Hello, Heinrich. I have to hang up now. I have to pay three times overcharge. Just think, Heinrich! There's music here all day long. And in the evening, they go around in full dress... Yes, sometimes I have pain, but I can stand it. Everything is frightfully expensive here. You can imagine, the Grand Hotel... What? Time's up...
I'm a sick man -- Heinrich -- Hello - hello -- Operator -- every minute two marks ninety.
Dangerous?... That's my business... I'll do it tonight -- ...I'll do it alone.
Madam is afraid -- she will never dance again -- there was no applause last night --
Yes -- the merger -- Manchester -- it is my business as much as yours -- we've already lost eighty-five thousand --
I'm on duty -- I can't leave the Grand Hotel -- it's like being in prison -- the baby --
 Any calls?
No, Doctor.
 Grand Hotel -- people -- coming -- going... Who cares... nothing ever happens.
Good little girl -- nice ones?
Yes, Baron.
 Is that for me?
No -- Madam Grusinskaya's car is to be brought. (he replaces the receiver)
 Madam Grusinskaya's car is to be brought.
Madam Grusinskaya's car... to be brought.
Good evening, Baron.
 Good evening. Will you send these up to Madam Grusinskaya?
Yes, Baron. (he hands the box of flowers to the clerk) Madam Grusinskaya.
Room one-seventy -- Madam Grusinskaya.
 Have you my tickets for the theatre?
Oh yes, Baron --  Baron von Gaigern's seats for Madam Grusinskaya.
 For me?
 No -- Madam Grusinskaya's car is not to be brought.
 Madam Grusinskaya's car is not to be brought.
Charge them...
 Good evening -- my key -- one sixty- eight.
Good evening, Mr. Pimenov.
Oh -- good evening, Baron.
How's the beautiful lady?
Grusinskaya -- well, to tell the truth, Baron -- tonight we are a little bit nervous. Were you at the theatre last night?
Certainly -- always when Grusinskaya dances.
Well -- last night was not so good.
I thought she was splendid!
Yes -- but the audience.
 The parquot loges are behind the parquet chairs.
Then they've put me back and I want to be up in front. How is that, chairs in front of loges?
The train leaves at seven-thirty, Madam. That is the only through train -- the dining car goes along.
 It's always so quiet here.
If you occupied the room next to Madam Grusinskaya, you would appreciate the quiet of a hotel lobby.
My dear sir, I would gladly change rooms with you.
 No doubt you would, Baron. But do you know, I'm quite indispensable to her. I'm her ballet master and her nurse. I hardly belong to myself anymore. But, there you are, it's Grusinskaya -- you can't help adoring her.
Pardon me.  Is Mr. Preysing in -- I am Doctor Zinnowitz.
 Mr. Preysing -- from Fredersdorf --
 Mr. Preysing --
Ach! Here you are, Doctor Zinnowitz.
Have I kept you waiting?
Waiting -- I'm waiting for news from Manchester.
No news yet?
No. No word.
Everything depends on the Manchester merger.
I know -- I know.
I saw Gerstenkorn at lunch -- and as your lawyer I made it my business to broach the matter ---
I'm expecting a young woman -- a stenographer -- she will ask for Mr. Preysing. Ask her to wait.
Yes, Doctor Zinnowitz.
 For me?
No -- letters to two-eighty.
 If a young woman, a stenographer, -- etc.
Any letters?
No, Doctor.
Telegrams?
No, Doctor.
Anyone asked for me?
Nobody, Doctor.
 The war.
 That is Doctor Otternschlag -- You know him?
Yes -- He always seems to be waiting for something -- and nothing ever comes.
The war dropped him here and forgot him.
 Yes, I was in the war.
Please -- please pay some attention to me -- I have no time.
 If you will wait one moment, sir.
I won't wait -- I can't wait -- I waited three days before I got a room at all and what a room that is.
It's a very nice room and inexpensive, sir.
Did I say I wanted a cheap room to live in -- when I came here did I ask for a cheap room? Did I?
Just one moment, sir.
No, I won't wait -- I can't -- Every day is precious -- every hour -- Every minute.
I came here because I wanted to live here, two weeks, maybe three -- God only knows -- I've told you I'll pay -- I'll pay anything you ask. I'm tired -- I'm ill -- I can't wait.
Has the gentleman a complaint?
The gentleman is dissatisfied with room number five fifty-nine.
I certainly have a complaint -- and a fair one.
 I came here from a long distance to stay at the Grand Hotel. I want a room -- a big room -- like you would give General Director Preysing -- I'm as good as Mr. Preysing -- I can pay like Mr. Preysing -- would you give him a little room, way up in the corner with the hot water pipes going -- bang -- bang -- bang... (he bangs at the desk with his fist)
This gentleman can have my room.
 Oh!
Send his bags up to my room.
Oh -- but -- I --
You're tired. I can see that.
Yes -- yes -- I am tired. I have been ill...
You are ill.
Mr. Kringelein will take room number one-seventy-six, one of our most expensive rooms. It is large and on the front with bath.
 Does that mean that the bath is my own? --- Private?
Certainly, sir.
Well, now, that's very kind -- thanks. That's what I want -- a large room on the front with a private bath -- Yes, that's what I want. I can pay now if you like.
That will not be necessary.
Thank you, sir.
 Not at all, sir. 
 Permit me -- my name is Kringelein -- from Fredersdorf.
I'm Baron von Gaigern.
Oh, a Baron! 
And this is Doctor Otternschlag.
 Oh -- Doctor -- you are a Doctor -- I am --
I know -- I know -- when a man's collar is an inch too big for him -- I know he is ill.
Yes -- Oh -- oh -- yes, -- (his finger goes nervously to his collar)
Well, Baron -- I must go and dress.
 Is this gentleman a Baron, too?
 Unfortunately no.
Will Mr. Kringelein kindly register.
Again?
Please.
Have you a minute now?
No -- I told you not to come in this lobby.
Time's getting short.
I've told you a hundred times not to speak to me with a cigarette in your mouth.
I want to speak --
Not now.
Yes, sir.
 Mr. Preysing.
Will you wait please.
The stenographer is to go up -- Mr. Preysing telephoned.
Mr. Preysing -- one sixty-four.
Thanks -- (calling off to elevator) Heigh! -- Wait!
 Poor Grusinskaya -- how can she receive anyone. She can't -- theatre, trains, hotels -- hotels, trains theatre.
 I must go and dress -- she'll be waking up and calling for me.
Come in.
What...! --
I'm the stenographer.
Then you will please wait outside.
 Don't hurry -- take your time.
Like dancing?
Not with strangers.
 Never?
You're a fool!
Yes, I am rather.
He must be very nice.
Who?
 Whoever is keeping you waiting.
 Have you seen it?
Oh, my large and noisy neighbor -- really? That? (indicating Preysing's door)
That.
 You?
 Oh -- work!!
 Oh!
Dictation. (she twittles her fingers) You know...
Oh... poor child. If you were free, I'd ask you to come and have some tea -- but --
Tea would spoil my dinner.  One meal a day, I'd hate to spoil it.
Reducing?
 No -- why? -- should I?
Lord no -- charming -- but why one meal a day?
 Money -- Ever heard of it?
Yes -- yes indeed -- but you are a...  ...a stenographer. Don't little stenographers earn little pennies?
Very little.
Too bad.
Did you ever see a stenographer with a decent frock on? -- One that she'd bought herself?
Poor child --  I wish I were free tonight -- we could --
 Aren't you?
 What?
Free --
 Unfortunately no -- to bad -- tomorrow though.
Tomorrow? What time tomorrow?
Shall we say five o'clock -- downstairs?
Where downstairs?
Yellow Room where they dance -- 
You're very funny --
 Yes? -- Tomorrow?
Of course.
Really?
We'll dance.
 All right. We'll dance.
Baron -- Oh, Baron!
If I could trouble the Baron to come and see this beautiful room. I have ordered champagne. Perhaps the Baroness could join us.
Waiter, oh waiter! Wait a minute! (to Baron and Flaemmchen) We are having caviar -- it's expensive but that makes no difference -- I see the Baroness is laughing.
Have caviar if you like, but it tastes like herring to me.
Ssshh! Please! Madam is asleep.
Oh!
 Asleep? -- Ssshhh -- sorry!
 Madam has slept well.
No, I have been awake -- thinking -- thinking.
It is time for the performance.
The performance?
It is time.
Always the performance -- every day the performance -- time for the performance. (she pauses and droops suddenly) I think, Suzette, I have never been so tired in my life. (she takes the bottle of veronal which is nearby) Veronal didn't even help me to sleep. 
 Madam Grusinskaya's car is to be brought.
I can't dance tonight --
It will pass -- it will pass -- come.
Let us cancel the engagement.
But, Madam. cannot do that.
Now is the time to cancel to stop entirely. I feel it -- everything tells me -- enough -- enough.
 The peals are cold -- everything is cold -- finished -- it seems so far away -- so threadbare -- the Russians -- St. Petersburg -- the Imperial Court -- the Grand Duke Sergei -- (long pause as though she were reliving incidents of the past) -- Sergei -- dead -- Grusinskaya -- it's all gone.
Mon Dieu -- the pearls -- if they were to break --
The pearls won't break -- they hold together and bring me bad luck ---- I hate them!
Orchids come again, Madam -- no card -- I think perhaps they are from the same young man -- he is at the end of the corridor -- tall -- he walks like a soldier -- Madam must have noticed how often he is in the elevator with us. Last night for instance --
Oh, Suzette -- Suzette -- Sshh -- quiet.
Ah, oui -- the car is here for Madam.
Send it away -- I shan't need it.
Come in.
 Madam Grusinskaya will not require her car -- no -- she will not be going to the theatre. 
It is time for the performance.
 The performance -- the performance -- the performance. (during this scene the orchids fall to the floor)
 Poor little Lisevata -- she still has her stage frights -- it will pass.
It is not stage fright -- it's something more --
 What -- what is it? Last night...
Last night?... There was no applause.
 There was -- there was.
That theatre -- half empty -- dancing for those few -- I was frantic -- I finished -- the last beat and... (she reclines her head as the swan finishing the dance) ...I waited -- I listened -- but the applause didn't come -- nothing. A man in the box -- and just the claques behind -- it is passed, Pimenov. We are dead -- it's finished.
Meierheim --
What is this that you have cancelled your car? Who am I that I should wait like a fool at the door? And here on a whim, you cancel your car. Have you forgotten there is a performance? Do you know the time? Or, are we all mad? Am I your manager?... Have we a contract? Have we obligations? Am I blind?  ...Or is that the time?
I'm cancelling the engagement.
Oh!
Oh! Madam is cancelling the engagement. Madam has chosen a funny time for such a funny joke. Ha, ha, ha -- hurry, come on. Tonight -- there's a line in front of the theatre since six o'clock. The house is jammed to the roof.
The house is not full -- Is it really full?
Packed to the ceiling. Hurry -- get dressed. And what an audience -- the French Ambassador -- American Millionaires -- Princess Ratzville -- er -- er --
 Oh -- but it can't be.
Oh, come, Madam -- please come. (she holds up her frock)
 All right, Suzette -- quickly -- hurry.
We will wait.
You are late. Hurry.
Tell Madam Grusinskaya's chauffeur to bring the car.
How is the house?
Terrible. After this, no more ballets for me. Jazz --  Just jazz.
If the house is empty again, I don't know --
When she gets her paint on and hears the music -- she'll be all right. I know these people.
You may laugh. Caviar and champagne may mean nothing to you, but to me -- they mean a great deal. You see, I'm ill and all of a sudden I got a fear of missing life. I don't want to miss life -- do you understand?
You are funny. You speak of life as if it were a train you wanted to catch.
Yes -- and for me, it's going to leave at any minute. Let's drink.
I'm sure this beautiful room must appeal to your taste -- distinctive, don't you think? Velvet upholstery -- 'A-number one'. I'm in the textile trade and I know. (he has a slight case of hiccups from the champagne. He touches the drapes) And these are real silk drapes.
 Silk -- think of that -- silk -- they are, too.
 Have you seen the bathroom? -- Hot and cold running water -- You see, I can get a bath whenever I like.
The stenographer!
Her master's voice!  I must go now -- goodbye -- thanks.
Oh, don't go.
I'm engaged for the evening.
Oh, can anyone engage you for the evening?
To take dictation -- a Mr. Preysing --  Goodbye, you -- tomorrow at five o'clock. 
What's the matter, Mr. Kringelein?
 General Director Preysing! (possibly he turns to Baron) Baron, when I was sixteen years old, I started as an office boy in that man's factory --
Then you know him?
Do I know him -- I know him through and through.
I must -- I hope to see you again, Mr. Kringelein.
You will stay, Doctor -- if you have nothing better to do?
I have nothing better to do, Mr. Kringelein.
Perhaps you could present me now, Mr. Pimenov.
Please, Baron -- forgive me -- not now -- here she is.
My coat.
Suzette -- I told you not to bring the pearls. I will not wear them tonight.
Why not?
Take them back, Suzette.
You haven't time.
Hurry, Suzette.
Such nonsense.
 The car for Madam Grusinskaya.
No news from Manchester yet -- Do you think we ought to postpone the conference?
Good heavens no. That'd create the very worst impression. You must be optimistic. You must convince them. You know as well as I do that the merger must go through.
Yes -- the merger must go through -- But I am used to making my deals on a solid basis. I am not a liar. I am an honest business man -- a good husband and father -- I have a sense of honor -- I have nothing to conceal. I couldn't live happily otherwise.
Well, don't get excited about it. We agreed that the merger with the Saxonia people must go through.
I want to dictate my statement for tomorrow. I can't speak without notes. I like to have things down before me in black and white.
I'll see you in the morning then, at the conference. Everything'll be all right, Preysing... Don't worry. Goodnight.
Good night.
Both parties have fully agreed that this merger can result only in mutual advantages.
Moreover --
 Moreover --
 Moreover -- (he pauses, thinking. Picks up telephone quickly -- into telephone) Is there a telegram for me yet?... Oh -- when it does, send it up.
Now, where was I? (he looks over the sheet in her typewriter -- accidentally his arm touches her neck) Oh -- sorry. (he puts his cigar in his mouth and walks away. As he walks away) Where was I?
Moreover...
Moreover...
Do you work in Justice Zinnowitz' office?
No -- only occasional jobs. 
Tired?
You pay me.
You're a very unusual stenographer --
Moreover...
Moreover... (as he paces the room, it is obvious that he is trying to collect his thoughts)
I don't see why it's unusual for a stenographer to be pretty -- if she does her work well, -- seems so silly. I don't know why they don't like girls like me in offices. Personally, I hate offices -- I'd much rather be in the movies.
Movies?
Yes, I photograph very well. Look --
What is this?
I got ten marks for that.
You...
 Me.
You...
 Moreover...
 What?
 Only in mutual advantages -- moreover.
What brown hands you have.
That's from skiing.
Skiing? 
 Yes... A man I know took me to Switzerland last month...
A man? -- To Switzerland? -- That must have been nice -- for him.
 Only in mutual advantages -- moreover...
Moreover... He was a lucky man -- that man.
Perhaps. 
Don't misunderstand me. I'm a married man -- with grownup daughters. Uh --
Moreover -- Do you mind if I smoke?  I went to Florence once, too.
With the same friend?
 No.
 Moreover, the possibility of the successful termination of negotiations now pending with the Manchester Cotton Company...
Not too quickly.
What?
You're a little too fast.
Can't you understand me?
I understand you perfectly.
Have you got it now?
 Cotton Company --
Should throw a great weight into the balance...
 ...weight into the balance...
Come in.
Telegram for Mr. Preysing.
Oh -- oh. (he throws the telegram away from him, onto her desk. Paces the room.)
Deal with Manchester Cotton Company definitely off.
Sorry.
How nice -- your daughters?
My daughters -- yes, my daughters. (he is talking more to himself)
Is that Mrs. Preysing.
 Definitely off.
Oh -- too bad. Did you quarrel? (she is looking at picture of Mrs. Preysing)
EMPTY_LINE
 Come in!
You are late -- the dancer's gone to the theatre.
 Well?
She's gone to the theatre -- don't you know?
 Yes.
 And what are you going to do?
The pearls are in her room.
 Now listen to me. The others are getting suspicious of you. I was on the telephone to Amsterdam today, they think you're scared.
I've been careful, I've been waiting my chance.
You've been waiting your chance. You're too much of a gentleman -- that's the trouble with you.
I told you I'll get the pearls tonight.
Need any help?
No.
Have you got that skeleton key?
No --
Why?
The floor clerk is out there in the corridor -- she sees everything ---
 I could take care of her.
How?
Chloroform on a handkerchief from behind -- while you...
No -- no -- no -- no...
Why?
Poor girl -- chloroform would give her a rotten headache... I know -- I had it in the war. Besides, she's very pretty -- not young but --
You're no good for this business. It's just a joke to you...
 I don't like your tone.
 No --
Get out and leave it to me... be ready to leave on the night train for Amsterdam...
With the pearls?
With the pearls --
'You are listening to the music of the Eastman Jazz Band, in the famous Yellow Room of the Grand Hotel.'
No -- no -- there is no one here. (she replaces the receiver)
 You're late... What have you been doing?
 Everyone -- all the time says, 'Come back - come back.' They won't get out of their rooms.
No, Madame Grusinskaya is not here... The Western Theater?... No...
Have you seen Madame?
 Isn't she at the theatre?
Hello, hello, Mr. Pimenov? Yes... Mr. Pimenov, have they found her?... No, she is not here... Yes, I'm at the hotel.
 Pimenov?... What's happening?... No, I haven't found her. Is Desprez dancing?... How is it?... Oh, all right. Keep the show going.  Wait till I see her, she'll pay for this -- this little trick is going to cost Grusinskaya a suit for breach of contract.
Madame is ill -- her nerves...
Her nerves... What about my nerves?... Who is she anyway? Where does she think she is -- Russia? Those days have passed.
Madame --
Well?
I want to be alone.
Where have you been?
Should I -- Does madame wish...
Suzette, please go, I want to be alone.
I suppose I can cancel the Vienna engagement.
I wish to be alone.
You'll be very much alone, my dear madame. This is the end. 
The end -- over -- finished --
The Western Theatre --
Western Theatre?
The stage -- Mr. Pimonov -- the ballet master... Grusinskaya -- hurry -- hurry.
Yes -- yes, I'm waiting.
Hello, Pimenov? -- I'm at the hotel. I couldn't go on -- I couldn't... No, no don't --  ...Just alone... Good night, good night, my dear -- goodbye... Pimenov, how is it going, badly?... Uh?... Who's dancing?... Desprez?... Oh -- and how is it?... Oh, -- oh, I see -- they didn't miss me?... They didn't miss me. (she lets her hand drop with the receiver and goes on talking into the air) They didn't miss me -- good night, Pimenov...
 Oh -- I'm sorry, yes... I have finished. (she replaces the receiver)
Please, do not be alarmed, Madam.
Careful -- there's broken glass on the floor.
There. (takes a pillow from the bed throws it upon the floor over the glass, steps back)
Please do not be frightened, Madam.
 What do you want here?
Nothing -- only to be here.
Why do you hide in my room?
But surely you must know -- because I love you.
Because you love me -- you love me?
 Poor little Grusinskaya! Does it do you good to cry? Are you afraid? Shall I go?
I was so alone -- always alone -- and suddenly you were there and said that.  No. I am not afraid. It is strange.
Don't cry -- it tears my heart to see you sob like that.
 Nerves -- just nerves. You must forgive me. I have had a bad evening. I am very tired. Do you know what it is to be tired -- tired of a routine existence?
I'm afraid not -- I usually do just what I feel like doing at the moment.
So you feel like coming into a lady's room -- and you come... What now?
 I'd like to smoke a cigarette.
Certainly.
Why do you look at me like that?
I did not know you were so beautiful... and --
 And then --?
No irony. You're so appealing -- so soft -- so tired. I feel like taking you in my arms and not letting anything more happen to you -- ever.
 And -- and --
How tired you are!
Yes -- tired...
So alone.
Alone. All alone.  Oh, you strange -- strange creature.
You mustn't talk Russian to me.
Strange man...
Am I quite strange to you?
Not quite strange now. It is as if I had been expecting you. You know, once when the Grand Duke was alive, I found a man hiding in my room -- a young officer --
And...?
He disappeared. Later he was found dead.
I never knew it was so dangerous to hide in a woman's room when she's alone. 
Go away. Who are you --?
A man who could love -- that is all, who has forgotten everything else for you.
You could love me. It is so long since I have heard that word. Nobody has loved me for a long time. It is so icy-cold to be famous. One is so cruelly alone. How is it that you -- Let me look at you. Your hands. Your eyes. Why could you love me?
I saw you just now -- then I saw you cry -- and now I see you in the mirror -- Grusinskaya...
Grusinskaya... Oh -- oh if you knew how I slaved and slaved for Grusinskaya -- for the success of Grusinskaya -- for the triumph of Grusinskaya... and what is she now? Just someone who has found that on the day success ceases life ceases -- Are you listening to me -- Do you understand? -- I want you to understand.
Yes -- I do understand.
I think you must go now -- the key is on the floor.
I'm not going -- You know I'm not going -- Let me stay here?
I want to be alone.
That is not so -- you don't want to be alone. (he looks back at the bed as if remembering the suicide.)
I want to be alone --
No -- You don't want to be alone at all -- You were in despair before -- If I left you, you'd feel worse than you did before, You must not be alone -- You mustn't cry -- you must forget... Tell me that I can stay with you -- tell me.
 Just for a minute then.
What? Say it again -- I didn't hear.
You -- man...
Thank you -- you are gallant. (she turns, her mood has changed) What a sentimental scene. Grusinskaya weeping is a sight worth seeing. It is many years since she did such a thing... You frightened me -- badly. You're responsible for this -- painful scene.
The stage frays one's nerves... the discipline -- it's so exacting. Discipline means doing what you don't want to do and take no pleasure in doing. Do you know what I mean? Have you ever experienced the weariness that comes from discipline?
I? -- Oh, no. I do only what I take pleasure in doing.
I see -- you do only what you take pleasure in doing. You take pleasure in coming into a woman's bedroom and you come. You take pleasure in a dangerous climb onto a balcony, so you do it... And what is your pleasure now?
 I should like to smoke.
Why do you smile?
Because I can see something in the mirror that you cannot. My dear -- 
What can you see?
You are beautiful!
No.
Beautiful but so sad. I did not know it was so dangerous to look into a woman's bedroom.
I think you had better go now. The key is on the floor.
I'm not going... You know that I'm not going... Do you think I could leave you alone here? After that --?
What?
The veronal -- you. I'm going to stay here with you.
I want to be alone.
That is not the truth.  You do not want to be alone -- you're afraid of being alone -- I know you're afraid. I know you. You were desperate, just now, if I go away you'll be more desperate than ever. Say I am to stay with you... say it. 
 For just a minute then. (she pulls away, crosses the room, quickly to the door, with almost a cry. She looks around for the key to the door) No -- oh, no!
Just for a minute, Grusinskaya --
Oh, but Doctor. Isn't this wonderful. To live -- to live -- in the Grand Hotel.
 The Grand Hotel.
Oh, but Doctor. The music -- the champagne -- girls when they dance -- all the shining ice in those big silver things -- That's life --
Life! -- Mr. Kringelein, you are drunk -- good night. 
 But Doctor --
Mr. Kringelein -- you are drunk -- good night.
I've never been as happy.
What did you say?
I've never been as happy!
Say it again -- say it!
I have never been so happy!
Grand Hotel -- good morning -- no, Baron von Gaigern's room does not answer... Yes,... all right... Baron von Gaigern's chauffeur calling.
Good morning, nine-thirty Doctor Otternschlag... No, Doctor, no messages... No, Doctor.
Grand Hotel -- good morning... who is calling Madam Grusinskaya?... Oh, Mr. Pimenov. Madam Grusinskaya is not to be disturbed, sir... no, sir... yes, sir --
Mr. Preysing's calls to one sixty two for today.
-- good morning... Mr. Preysing -- 
 Nine-thirty, Mr. Preysing keeps us waiting.
 He likes to play the great man.
 The Preysing stock is holding its own today on the market.
Ask Preysing what it's costing him to keep it up.
And ask me what it's costing us to hammer it down.
Exactly.
If the Preysing people get the Manchester contract, we shall certainly merge with the Preysing company -- but if they haven't they're ruined -- Preysing will have to declare himself.
Shhh -- here he is now.
 Good morning, gentlemen -- Mr. Preysing will be here in a minute.
 Good morning, gentlemen.
Good morning.
Sorry I'm late, I've been waiting for Justice Zinnowitz, my legal advisor.
Oh -- ho -- you want legal aid against us? -- The whole thing seems to me to be very simple.
Very simple -- I've always liked the way you dressed, Preysing -- English, isn't it?
 What?
 They turn out marvelous material in Manchester.
Manchester -- yes. Yes, yes, they do. Yes -- Now gentlemen shall we begin at the beginning? -- Have we cigars -- water and everything?
 Manchester is a very interesting city, don't you think so, Preysing?
 Manchester -- yes -- yes. A man in the textile industry naturally has to know Manchester.
There's a lot of business to be done with the Manchester Cotton Company. They've the whole English market right in their hands. Have you any connections with -- Manchester?
 We have a good many connections in England, naturally.
I mean with the Manchester people?
 We are here to discuss our merger. Naturally I can make no statement at this time. We must begin at the beginning.
 All right.
 Since, on the eleventh of June, this year -- when the first negotiations for a merger between our respective firms was entered into -- both parties have fully agreed that this merger can result only in mutual advantages.
Oh -- yes -- I beg your pardon!
I'm laying before you the last general statement of our concern. Active capital, plant and machinery, raw material and finished product -- for instance -- mop rags --
Mop rags --!
What we want to know about is Manchester.
Yes, Mr. Preysing -- that's what we want to know.
I'd like to wait for Justice Zinnowitz, before I commit myself.
Oh -- Preysing, Preysing --
No water -- What a place!
All you have to do is phone for it.
Water -- seltzer, three or four bottles and cigars -- good ones.
I can see this session is going to be exhaustive.
Now to proceed with the projected merger, the advantages for the Saxonia are so obvious...
Oh -- now let's talk like adults. You want to tell us now a along story of what your factory can do. We know all that you could tell us and if you tell the truth it wouldn't sound so good. When you first approached us...
We did not approach you.
 Letter on file September fourteenth would show that you approached...
 It isn't so -- this was a response to a tentative feeler of your own.
 Tentative my foot -- a month before this your old father-in-law came very privately and scratched at my door.
Scratched --  We did not take the initiative.
Of course you took the initiative.
Good morning, gentlemen -- I see the conference is already underway.
Oh, here you are, Justice Zinnowitz -- I'm at cross-purposes with these gentlemen -- will you clear up the situation?
But the situation is perfectly clear, If you will allow me -- 
How clear is Manchester?
Foggy -- frightfully foggy, always, I'm told.  Have you said anything about Manchester, Mr. Preysing?
I can make no statement about Manchester at this time.
Well -- gentlemen.
Since, on the eleventh of June of this year -- when the first negotiations for a merger...
 Thank God we're beginning at the beginning.
 As you remember it -- when you approached us...
 We did not approach you.
I know you did -- I said you did --
And I said we didn't.
And I know we didn't.
Oh -- I was ambitious then -- ambition was in my blood -- no rest, no stopping. We were drilled like little soldiers -- We danced in the school of the Imperial Ballet, in St. Petersburg. I was little and slim but hard as diamond -- a duty machine -- No rest, no stopping. And then -- I became famous and whoever is famous is alone... But why should I be telling you this? Last night I did not know you at all -- who are you, really? -- I do not even know your name.
I am Felix Benvenuto von Gaigern. My mother called me Flix.
Flix. -- And how do you live? What kind of a person are you?
I'm a prodigal son, the black sheep of a white flock -- I shall die on the gallows.
Really?
Really, I haven't a bit of character. None at all.
No?
When I was a little boy I was taught to ride and be a gentleman -- at school, it was a monastery, I learned to pray and lie -- and ---
And?
And then, in the war, to kill and hide. That's all.
And what do you do -- now?
I'm a gambler -- I'm running at large like a happy pig, devouring anything of life that pleases me, I really belong in jail
Oh! What a picture -- and what else?
 I'm also a criminal and a hotel thief. 
That's a silly joke.
EMPTY_LINE
What is the matter?
Flix!
There.
EMPTY_LINE
 Did you come here just -- just for that? Oh -- it's horrible.
You may keep the pearls -- I don't want them any more -- I'll make you a present of them.
 I don't want them now.
 I'll not denounce you.
I know.
So --
Yesterday I was a thief -- but now, --
But now, you must go... I give you the pearls. But now you must go ---
I wanted money desperately -- Can you understand? -- That's why I wanted the pearls. I was threatened -- I was desperately in need of a certain big sum of money. I've been following you -- I've admired you. But I have forced myself not to think about you -- Last night, at last, I managed to came into your room and -- and now.
 And now?
I couldn't go through with it. (his head goes down into her lap -- he sighs:) Remarkable.
Do you understand?
Yes -- yes -- yes.
Quickly -- here.
Good morning, Suzette.
 Good morning, Madam.
Madam has slept well?
 Oh, yes, Suzette.
Madam will dress now, it is late.
Five minutes, Suzette, come back in five minutes. I'll ring.
Yes, madam Suzette knows all about it.
Madam is beautiful this morning.
Yes, Suzette.
You must go now.
There -- it begins.
Hello -- hello -- Meierheim? Yes...
 No --
What?... Cancel Vienna?... Are you mad? We always have great success in Vienna... Certainly not. Come here and see me... yes... good-bye.
 There -- the day begins... I must go to rehearsal.
Grusinskaya --
Yes.
You do believe that I really love you?
Yes -- If I didn't believe that, I'd die after last night.
I want to be good to you -- madly good.
Suzette will be back here in a minute.
I'll go -- good-bye.
Shall I see you again?
I --
Suzette will be back here any minute.
When are you leaving Berlin?
Very early in the morning.
For Vienna?
Can't -- can't you -- Couldn't you come too -- I think it would be better -- for us -- for us both.
Oh -- yes but -- later.
Why later?
I have no money now -- I must get some first -- I must get some.
I'll give you what you need -- I have money.
Oh no -- that would spoil everything. I'll -- I will manage somehow -- I'll manage myself. I will go with you. When does the train leave?
Six twenty-seven in the morning... But the money?
Never mind -- I'll get it. I have a whole day. I'll be on that train.
I shall dance and you'll be with me and then -- listen -- After that you will come with me to Lake Como, I have a villa there. The sun will be shining. I will take a vacation -- six weeks -- eight weeks. We'll be happy and lazy. And then you will go with me to South America -- oh!
You must go now. Be careful on your way to your room.
I'll go. -- I love you.  I'll be on that train. I'll get the money.
Don't do anything foolish -- I'm alarmed about you.
Don't worry. I'll be on the train.  He leaves.
 Yes, Pimenov... Yes... where are you, in your room? Come, I will see you now... hurry.
Not that dark dress -- something light -- bright -- it's a sunny morning, Suzette.
Come in. 
Good morning, Pimenov.
 Good morning, Gru -- your --
Pimenov, I have an idea -- a new ballet -- it must have mad music -- I'll explain it to you later. But now, hurry to the theatre -- I want full rehearsal -- properties -- full ballet and some musicians. Hurry -- Quickly. I will be there --
Gru -- you are positively radiant.
Yes, Pimenov.  One minute, Suzette, I will call you.
 Hello -- will you -- will you get me Baron von Gaigern, please... yes... Baron von Gaigern -- yes...
 Will you get me Baron von Gaigern, please...  Cherie... yes... it is you... nothing... good morning, good morning, cherie... nothing... no... just to tell you I'm happy.
Step back please.
I've told you three times -- Baron von Gaigern is out.
Did he leave any message for me?
No, he did not -- there is no message.
 Any letters?
No, doctor.
Oh, Doctor, such a day -- such a day!
 Madam Grusinskaya.
 For Madam Grusinskaya.
 Madam Grusinskaya -- at once --
 Your chauffeur's been waiting, Baron.
 All right. (he glances around apprehensively)
Baron, we must have gone a hundred miles an hour, at least...
Yes, quite.
 We've been together all day... and in an aeroplane.
Life is changing you, Mr. Kringelein.
Yes, thanks to the Baron. The best shops, the very best. Look, Doctor, silk -- feels so nice on the skin... a London hat, see -- made in England, that's silk, too -- fifty marks... Look, the price is on it. That was half my salary before. The Baron is a very fine gentleman -- no one in my life has been so nice to me as the Baron.
I'm going to change and we'll meet for a drink in the Yellow Room.
In the Yellow Room, where the music's playing and the ladies are?
 Where the music's playing and the ladies are...
No pain, Mr. Kringelein?
Pain? Oh, no, Doctor. I think if I had pain I'd be too happy to notice it...
...and let me say again for the tenth time... (he is hoarse and tired) ...you people were quite ready for the merger. You declared yourselves... fully agreed on all the terms -- Why should the signing of these articles be suddenly held up?
I've admitted that at one time we had reason for desiring ther merger -- What reason have we now? The Preysing Company has fallon upon evil days, very evil days.
Evil days -- I've shown you here --  -- my company exports to the Balkans alone, sixty-five thousand marks worth of mop rags a year.
Mop rags -- mop rags -- we're interested in something quite different!
What?
 Shall I tell them again?
 Why waste time -- it's getting late.
You see -- what we are interested in --
 Ah, come on -- we're going home.
 Mr. Preysing has too scrupulous a regard for certainties...
You've talked enough today, you're hoarse now.
Sorry, Preysing. 
 You've decided against the merger?
Yes --
Then, it's all over?
Yes --
 Well -- well -- You could call my office.
Goodbye, Preysing, I hope you pull through. This is a very bad time to be in such a crisis. We've...
 Why talk -- it's over -- it's over -- it's finished. You've broken off negotiations. You did it. You're calling them off. You had nothing on your mind all day, but Manchester, -- Manchester -- Manchester. (he develops almost a passion) You don't suppose for one moment that I'm such a fool as not to have something that I could say definitely about Manchester. (he is generating almost a passion)
What?
Oh no -- no -- the session is over. Let's go, it's off. Thank you, gentlemen. (he starts packing up his papers.)
If you actually have news from Manchester then...
Gentlemen, I am now free to announce... (he is perspiring, his hands are trembling) ...that the deal between my firm and the Manchester Cotton Company has been successfully negotiated.
Preysing, you're joking with us.
You're a deep one.
In that case give us the articles. We'll sign at once. We know all the details...
 I thought we'd suspended negotiations, gentlemen.
Under these circumstances it's quite a different matter.
Under these circumstances we might refuse to sign.
Come on -- business is business -- Come on --
Here's my signature -- here Preysing, sign here.
What a session this has been.
It's twenty-five to six.
We should celebrate this with a bottle of wine.
 See you soon, Preysing. Next week we'll meet and discuss further details.
Next week.
 Next week.
You let me talk till I'm hoarse and you had Manchester sewed-up all the time. Why?
Well -- the deal has been put through.
Yes, it has been put through -- it has been put through.
 What's the matter with you?
 Bluff -- Bluff -- all bluff.
What's bluff?
 That.
 'Deal with Manchester definitely off! "Preysing, oh -- I'd never have thought it of you.
No one would have thought it of me. I've been getting rusty in Fredersdorf. Well, if bluff is what the world wants I guess I can put up as big a bluff as anyone. From now on... 
You must go to Manchester at once yourself and really see it through.
Yes -- I must go to England -- I was desperate -- Now I don't care -- This sort of thing goes to a man's head.
What you need is some relaxation.
Yes -- that's what I want -- I'd like to tear loose -- I'd like a drink. I'd like to go down to that dancing place. I'd like to start something.
I can understand that -- after your -- uh --
Say it -- say it -- my lie -- it's the first time in thirty years that I've ever... Where's that stenographer? Miss Flaemm...
What do you want with her?
I want to see her, I want to do some dictating -- report of the conference for my father-in-law.
She had an engagement in the Yellow Room at five o'clock -- she was in a hurry.
Zinnowitz, would you say she was pretty?
Pretty as a picture.
Let's go down and find her -- I need a drink -- Come along Zinnowitz. (he is picking up papers) I don't know anything about women -- been married for twenty-six years.
Bluff does it, Preysing, bluff does it. Goodnight.
Aeh!
 Hello... Father-in-law?... Is that you?... The agreement is signed -- I did it... yes, father-in-law... but now I must go to Manchester.
 Barman -- whiskey --  For you, Mr. Kringelein?
For me? -- Oh, please, something sweet and cold.
A Louisiana flip, sir?
A Louisiana flip, that sounds very nice -- sweet, eh? --
What do you do in the Grand Hotel? Eat -- sleep -- loaf around -- do business -- flirt a little -- dance a little. A hundred doors to one hall and nobody knows anything about the person next to him. When you leave another takes your room and lies in your bed -- the end.
Good evening, Mr. Kringelein -- Where's the Baron?
I'm waiting for him here. The Baron and I have been together all day. A hundred miles an hour -- in a motor car -- and in an aeroplane -- It was marvelous --
Mr. Kringelein -- How you have changed, you look so nice.
Oh, thank you, Miss Flaemm. Oh, please, Miss Flaemm -- Permit me, Miss Flaemm, won't you have something sweet -- a Louisiana flip.  A Louisiana flip.
 No - absinthe.
 Yes -- that --
You like music?
Yes -- it's stimulating -- a man might --
 A man might what?
I don't know -- I'd like to do anything --
 Oh -- you would!
 Hello -- sorry I'm late.
Oh -- here you are, Baron. A drink -- A Louisiana flip?
Hello, Mr. Kringelein. How do you feel now?
A little strange, Baron.
I'd given you up.
 Sorry.
A drink, Baron -- A Louisiana flip?
No thanks -- keeping my head clear.
Dance then? 
 She's beautiful -- isn't she?
 Oh -- there are plenty of women.
What have you been doing all day?
Chasing around.
Chasing what?
Money.
You were very different yesterday.
Yesterday -- yes -- that was yesterday.
Well, Mr. Kringelein, are you getting what you're looking for?
What, Doctor?
A masculine paradise -- drink, the ladies, dancing...
I had a very good opportunity, a young lady asked me to dance -- I ought to be able to dance, it seems to be very important.
You must learn as quickly as your time allows -- Believe me Mr. Kringelein, a man who isn't with a woman is a dead man.
Haven't you anyone -- Haven't you anybody -- you -- I mean -- Are you all alone in the world.
 I'm always alone -- I have been everything.
Everything?
I was sent as a military surgeon to South Africa. Stinking climate. Taken prisoner. Home on parole not to fight. I was a surgeon in the Great War till the end. Grenade in the face. Carried diphtheria bacilli in the wound until 1920. Isolated two years.  I've been everything.
That was lovely.
Will you do me a big favor?
I'll do anything for you.
Would you like to make a man happy?
 Yes -- I'd love to.
Then dance the next number with Kringelein.
Why?
I feel sorry for him.
You're not a bit like you were yesterday.
I fell in love last night -- the real thing.
Oh -- there's no real thing -- it doesn't exist.
I thought that, too -- but I found that it does. Come along, dance with Kringelein.
Anything for you.
Miss Flaemm.
Hello!
I must speak with you, Miss Flaemm.
 Presently, Mr. Preysing.
It's urgent.
Pardon me, the lady has urgent business here with me.
 Insolent -- Berlin manners.
I wish you a very good evening, Mr. Preysing. You are staying here, too, Mr. Preysing?
I don't know you.
Oh -- you must know me -- Kringelein at the plant. Assistant bookkeeper, building C, room twenty-three -- third floor.
 Come and dance with me, Mr. Kringelein.
I must speak to you, Miss Flaemm -- business.
 Tomorrow morning.
No -- now.
Do you gentlemen know each other, Mr. Kringelein -- Mr. Preysing -- Baron von Gaigern.
Mr. Kringelein will be a good friend and not accept your invitation to dance.
I could not think of not accepting.
You say that you are employed by us in Fredersdorf, and here you are in Berlin, indulging in diversions which ill befit your position and which are very much beyond your means -- Quite extraordinary, Mr. Kringelein, I think we will look into your books.
Now, children, no fighting -- save that for the office. Let's have our dance. (her arms go around Kringelein. They dance off)
I'll remember you, Mr. Kringelein.
Oh, let the poor devil alone.
I did not ask your advice.
I think it would be much better if you went away.
We shall see who remains here the longer.
 As you will.
You must look at my face and not at the floor.
Yes.
You're trembling.
I never danced before -- in public.
You dance splendidly.
I'm happy, Miss Flaemm.
Really?
For the first time in my life, I'm happy.
Let's stop -- I'm tired.
Thank you, Miss Flaemm.
Well now, Miss Flaemm, we can talk.
Some champagne, Miss Flaemm?
You may go, Mr. Kringelein.
Does the world belong to you, Mr. Preysing?
What is this insolence?
Do you think you have free license to be insulting? Believe me you have not. You think you're superior, but you're quite an ordinary man.
Go away -- go away.
Please -- please!
You don't like to see me enjoying myself.
Who are you? -- An embezzler most likely.
An embezzler -- you're going to take that back, right here in the presence of this young lady -- who do you think you're talking to? You think I'm dirt, if I'm dirt, you're a lot dirtier, Mr. Industrial Magnate Preysing.
You're discharged.
Me?
Yes you -- shut your mouth -- get out -- you're discharged.
You can't discharge me -- I'm my own master now -- at last. I'm ill, I'm going to die -- do you understand? I'm going to die very soon. Nothing can happen to me now. Nobody can do anything any more to me. By the time you can have discharged me I shall have been dead already. (his laugh becomes a convulsive sob)
Come, Mr. Kringelein. (he pulls him out of the scene towards the bar)
 I shall see you in the lobby in half an hour.
Better let him stay -- I've sent for the Baron... How's your wife coming along?
I was at the hospital all night walking up and down the corridor. They wouldn't let me in to see her. She has the pains, but the child doesn't come and I have to stay here chained to this desk.
It will be all right.
I hope so.
Did you send that page?
The young lady's there, sir.
Oh, yes, Mr. Preysing?
Sit here.  Cognac -- for you?
Nothing.
I'm going to keep an eye on that Kringelein fellow. I'll find out where he gets the money to hang around the Grand Hotel.
Well -- you want me?
 Yes.
Well?
I must go to England -- at once.
Well?
You see, I'd like to take a secretary with me for my correspondence and -- humm -- humm -- for company on the trip -- I'm nervous -- I need somebody -- I don't know if you quite understand me. You said you have travelled with gentlemen -- and I mean --
I understand perfectly.
What do you think your salary would be -- for such a trip?
Wait -- I must figure it up.  First, I'll need -- clothes -- shoes -- it's cold in England in March, I'll need a suit... You'd want me to look nice?
Of course -- of course. 
A thousand marks -- (she waits anxiously thinking it might be too much)
It's agreed -- I will get a room here for you.
I can get a room here in the Grand Hotel for you.
Can you pay some attention to me?
Oh, yes.
 Insolent young cub!
You mean Baron von Gaigern?
Baron!
Well, he's a gentleman!
 The Baron is tired?
No, Kringelein, not tired, -- just -- (he shrugs his shoulders) Well -- well --
Perhaps this evening, Baron, we could go to the Casino -- the place we passed with the marvelous bright lights?
I'd like to Kringelein, but I can't -- I am broke!
Broke -- A Baron? But, Baron --
Excuse me, Mr. Kringelein. 
 I've quit.
You can't.
I'm not going to get those pearls and neither are you.
What about the money?
I'll pay you back.
How?
I have an idea working in my head... (he glances at Kringelein)
You might find a bullet through that head...
If you did that, you'd get nothing except the police after you. If you wait -- I'll give you your six thousand back --
Madam Grusinskaya's car -- Madam Grusinskaya's car.
 Madam Grusinskaya's car --
 Madam Grusinskaya's car --
 Later. (Chauffeur exits with bad grace.)
 Go on please -- go on, Suzette.
 Bless you...
Are you coming to the theatre? Oh -- I shall dance tonight -- How I shall dance -- I want to feel that you are in the theatre.
I can't.
No?
No! I can't explain now. Oh, look -- the pearls. You wear them now...
Why do you think --
Why?
They've brought me such good luck -- you --
I'm worried about you.
Don't.
On the train?
Yes -- I will be on the train.
Till then.
Bless you --
Was the Baron joking, or is it really true that the Baron is -- in financial straits.
 Absolutely true, Kringelein and I have to raise some money immediately.
If the Baron -- if you would permit me --
What?
I would be awfully glad to oblige, you've been so decent to me. Three hundred?
If I could get into a game I might win some.
Gambling! I'd like that. I have over six thousand eight hundred marks with me.
If we could scare up some men to play.
We could come to my room.
 Good!
Going?
Yes --
Ready, Kringelein?
Ready, Baron.
All right, gentlemen.
I play -- I play -- Here -- Up -- Playing --
Yes -- me.
Is that too much, Baron?
 No -- not at all.
All right then.
All right then.
 Don't show them.
 What do I do now?
 Turn 'em up.
Oh yes -- that's right -- look! I win, don't I -- 
There you are gentlemen.
 Will you take the bank, sir?
Yes -- I'll take everything gentlemen -- please, let us drink -- champagne --- champagne is expensive and good. I'm winning more than I used to earn in a year -- double what I used to earn. (he is counting his money)
Where is the Baron -- where are you, Baron?
 Excuse me, gentlemen.
 I'll take the bank -- All right, gentlemen.
That was my last.
You've lost everything?
I've no luck.
Pardon me, Baron. Permit me again... (he puts bills in Baron's hand.)
Drink to me, Kringelein -- it's my last chance.
 I do drink, Baron -- I drink to you, Baron and to win.  It's good, -- come along, Baron.
I take five hundred.
All of that at once, Baron?
Eight. 
 Nine.
That's it. The luck's with you. 
Come along, Mr. Kringelein. Sit here.
I'm having luck for the first time in my life.
Your bank, Mr. Kringelein.
Out, Baron?
 For a while -- I'll recover -- in ten or twenty years.  Look at that.
I've won again, Baron -- I've won again.
Baron, I drink and win -- I drink and win -- I win and drink! (he is pulling money towards him, counting it, eagerly, frantically, not the movement of a miser, not a greedy movement, but the movement of an excited child liberated. Money has become so much mad paper to him.)
There are complaints in the hotel about the noise.
What time is it? Getting late? Let's break it up!  You've been very lucky... Where's my coat? Let's go. He's drunk anyway!... Goodnight, Baron. Let's wind up the game, I'm broke and tired; you can't play against him. I put my hat down here, somewhere. I think I'll have a drink before I go. By the way, I've got to see you tomorrow morning. How've you been, Doctor?
Oh, don't go, gentlemen! -- Stay a while. (he stands to his feet) Be my guests!
I oughtn't to presume, but I --  I'm so grateful to you -- it's been so marvelous. The first time in my life I have gambled -- I've danced! Oh, you can laugh, gentlemen, but it's the first time in my life I've ever tasted life!
 Splendid!
Life, gentlemen, is wonderful, but very dangerous. You must have courage for it, then it's wonderful. You gentlemen don't know that because you are all healthy and happy, but I -- believe me -- a man must know death and not until then does a man know anything about life.
 Rejoice in life while yet the small lamp burns.
 It's a short life and a gay one...
EMPTY_LINE
Drunk.
Poor fellow.
 Drunk? No, he's ill. Looks ill.  He's a doctor -- The doctor's here -- He's just drunk!
Gentlemen, this man is ill -- very ill -- if you will leave.
Certainly, Doctor. Goodnight! Goodnight, Baron! Bad luck!
He's not used to champagne -- why does he drink it?
Can I help, doctor?
No, the Baron will stay.
Certainly.
 It will be over in a minute.
Over -- over so soon -- it has just begun. (he closes his eyes suddenly) Oh, the pain.
Try and sleep, Kringelein, don't be afraid.
 I'd like to live a little longer but -- I'm not afraid to die -- I'm not...
EMPTY_LINE
 My pocketbook... my money in it...
What do you say -- what?
You what -- Oh, isn't it there?
No -- But no I -- Baron, I've lost my pocketbook.
There is no pocketbook here... On the floor probably. 
 More than fourteen thousand marks... were in that pocketbook.
 Fourteen thousand marks... One can travel -- one's happiness might depend on fourteen thousand marks -- don't you think so, Baron?
 Quite possibly.
Oh, I've got to find it.
Stay where you are.
No -- I must find it --  Fourteen thousand two hundred marks. (he pulls himself to the side of the bed)
I'm all right, Doctor. There's no pain now -- only you don't know what that money means to a man like me.
EMPTY_LINE
He must find his money, Baron.  Mr. Kringelein should find his pocketbook, Baron, shouldn't he?
Here -- here it is. Here's your pocketbook, Kringelein.
 Oh -- yes -- that's it -- you found it -- you found it for me, Baron.
 Goodnight, Kringelein. (he moves towards the door.)
No -- no please -- oh, don't go -- don't go -- don't leave me alone, Baron.
You've nothing to fear, Kringelein
No.
Come, get up -- come let me help you.
You're all right now -- it's very late -- goodnight, Kringelein.
Oh, no, stay here, Baron -- stay.
Goodnight, Baron.
Goodnight. (his hand presses on Kringelein's shoulder -- he exits)
Flaemmchen, what are you doing here in the middle of the night.
Looking for my room -- one sixty- six.
You live here?
For tonight. (she points to door -- she looks at him a long time)
Oh!
Yes -- oh!
Well -- such is life, Flaemmchen.
And Baron, thanks so much for everything.
Flaemmchen! 
 You are late. I've been waiting for you -- waiting.
I had to arrange about the trip.
You're sweet.
You think so?
 Come here. (he sits heavily on the bed, sitting on her night dress.)
Here, hold up!
Oh -- careful, Mr. Preysing.
Call me -- do you know -- would you -- would you like to call me by my first name?
 Oh, no.
Why not?
I couldn't do that, you're a stranger to me.
You're a funny little creature, Flaemmchen. I can't make you out.
It's not funny at all. One can't get intimate just off hand. I could go to England with you and everything like that -- supposing I met you next year and I said: 'How do you do, Mr. Preysing! And you said:  'That was the young lady who was my secretary in Manchester'.
That's all quite proper. (she is happy again. She would rather talk than be squeezed) But supposing I met you when you were with your wife and I called out: "Hello you big baby -- remember Manchester?' And you with your wife, how would you like that?
Please, Flaemmchen -- we'll leave my wife out of this.
All right. I'll get undressed -- get out.
Aha! -- The Baron. What do you want here?
I must have made a mistake.
Made a mistake -- remarkable. We shall soon see if you made a mistake. (the Baron starts to leave.)  Stay here... Give me that money.
So that's how we stand, Baron.
Look here, sir -- I'm completely at your mercy -- I'm desperate -- it's a matter of life or death -- I had to get some money -- tonight.
Indeed you must, Baron -- you must. Humm -- humm, but you must go to jail, Baron, you're a thief.
Be quiet.
I'm going to call the police. I'm going to watch you play the great Baron with the police. Aristocrat! Aristocrat! (he picks up the telephone)
The door is locked, Baron.
one hand holding the Baron.
 Hello! Hello! --
Don't do that. (he tries to snatch the telephone from Preysing.)
Strike me, would you? Attack me would you? Attack me --
I'll strike you -- I'll strike you -- I'll strike you -- Strike me!
I strike you -- (with telephone foolishly in his hand, he looks down at what he has done.)
Yes -- yes -- Operator -- Operator -- (she listens -- says to herself) They are having a nice little game up there with the telephone.
 Mr. Kringelein -- Mr. Kringelein -- where are you?
Quick -- Mr. Kringelein.
Oh -- what -- what -- (he is looking up at what seems to be a ghost.)
Oh -- oh, Miss Flaemmchen. It's you --
Quick -- something awful -- awful has happened. Go -- go at once, -- Mr. Preysing --
Preysing?
Oh, don't wait -- go -- it's awful -- it's awful.
Stay here.
Don't wait now -- go -- Preysing.
 Mr. Preysing -- Oh, Mr. Preysing --
Oh -- the Baron -- the Baron.
He tried to rob me -- he is dead --
My best friend -- poor, Baron -- dead -- just like that.
-- We must do something...
 Yes, the police must be called.
No -- no -- wait -- the man was a burglar -- he was going to steal my money.
Oh, no -- no -- not the Baron.
 Where is that girl -- she was working with him -- she enticed me into her room.
Her room -- oh -- I see, Mr. Preysing -- I understand, Mr. General Director Preysing.
 I can answer for this, it was self- defense -- I can answer for this -- but that girl -- the scandal -- my wife -- my daughters, you know them?
Yes, I know them --
The scandal -- we are men -- you -- you could take that affair of the young lady upon yourself -- take her and hold your tongue. Then you can travel -- I'll give you anything -- anything -- she was with you.
We must call the police, your excellency.
How much -- how much do you want -- you need money -- you have nothing.
Don't worry about me, Mr. General Director Pryesing -- worry about yourself.  There has been a murder -- this is room one sixty-four.
Hello -- hurry up... hurry up... someone in one sixty-four says there has been a murder.
Here - quick - here -- go to one sixty-four immediately. (calls back on telephone) Give me Mr. Rohna -- Rohna the manager.
Where?... murder?... who?... all right, I'm coming. Wait a minute.  Instruct everyone to use the utmost tact -- we must have no scandal in the Grand Hotel. Answer no questions, I'm coming now -- inform the police.
Madam should sleep.
I've done my hair differently -- do you like that?
When a lady falls in love she does her hair differently.
 In the middle of the night -- those flowers make me think of a funeral. Laurels and tube-roses. (she pushes the window closed, shivers, it is chilly. She crosses the room turning out one of the lights) Oh, think, Suzette -- the Villa and the sun at Tremezzo -- quiet -- simple -- happy -- we'll have a guest, Suzette.
 Yes, Madam. And now Madam will sleep. It is not long 'till the train.
Goodnight, Suzette.
Hello -- can you tell me if Baron von Gaigern is in his room -- ring him.  Cherie, I must wake you or you'll miss the train.  ...yes... are you ringing, he may be asleep.  Cherie, you must get up and fetch me from my room -- I'm longing for you, Cherie -- I have not been to sleep -- I kept thinking you would come to me.  ...Oh, but he must answer. Ring -- ring -- ring.
 Cherie, hurry -- hurry -- hurry. Answer the phone -- what is the matter.  Ring him -- ring him.  Where are you -- where are you, Cherie? Why don't you answer?  Well, ring him -- please -- please.
 Forty-two -- forty-four -- forty-six -- forty-eight -- fifty -- fifty-two --
One hundred and eight -- one hundred and ten -- one hundred and twelve...
The night clerk has already gone -- you are late.
Man -- I was at the clinic the whole night -- there are no words to describe what my wife suffered.
And the child isn't coming?
No -- no -- not yet. Well, I mustn't let it interfere with my duty. Any news here?
News? Yes -- killing in number one- sixty-four.
What? -- Who? -- Whom?
The big manufacturer killed Baron von Gaigern.
Good heavens. What for?
I don't know.
Man -- that's terrible. He was a nice fellow -- I am sorry about him.
It seems that he was a thief and an imposter.
I don't believe it -- he was a real gentleman. I know people... I'm so tired I can hardly see out of my eyes. No sleep for two nights and so many duties and now this killing in the hotel -- that means a lot of work. But it's too bad about the Baron, you always felt better when he came along -- always friendly -- such an agreeable fellow.
Most imposters are --
Good morning.
 Good morning.
Show your hands.
 You have dirty nails -- you little pig -- you're no good... Caps off! -- Let's see your hair. (Boys take off their caps) Good -- caps on! (Boys put on their caps) Where is number seven?... Not here?  Take his name -- if he comes late again today, he's fired. Dismissed!
Please, officer.
That will be sufficient for the present, sir, you may travel in peace.
And they've taken him away.
Yes -- it's terrible.
Madam must not know -- you understand -- Madam must not know.
I will tell the maids. I cannot answer for downstairs --
What's the matter?
Oh -- I was thinking -- Poor Baron -- Lying there, his eyes so open.
You loved the Baron, didn't you?
Yes --
So did I. He was friendly to me as no man ever was.
Perhaps he really was a burglar -- But they don't kill a man for that.
He was in desperate straits. He'd been trying to raise money all day. He laughed -- Poor devil! And then a man like Preysing kills him.
 I didn't like Preysing right off.
Then why did you have anything to do with him?
 Money!
Yes, of course, -- money!
You don't understand that do you?
Of course I do -- I never knew what money really meant till I started spending it. Do you know --  I can hardly believe that anything so beautiful should come to me from Preysing -- I'll take care of you. Will -- will you let me?
What?
You'll have a good time with me. Want to? I've got enough money. Ten thousand two hundred in my pocketbook. Three thousand four hundred that I won. It will last a long time. I can win more -- we'll travel.
Yes -- to Paris? I wanted to go there always.
Wherever you like. Here I'll give you the money I won, three thousand four hundred. Later you can have more.
Later?
When I -- I'm ill, Flaemmchen -- It will not be long -- I'll not last long. Will you stay with me until...
Nonsense! We'll find a great doctor, he'll cure you. They can cure anything these days.
Do you believe that you will have a better time with me than you would with Preysing?
Oh yes, of course.
 Do you like me better?
You're a good man, Mr. Kringelein -- a very good man.
 When is the next train leaving for Paris? -- Yes... Get two tickets for me... and my bill please... and the lady's -- Miss Flaemm's.   We have to hurry let's pack -- we'll have breakfast on the train.
Madam, it is Mr. Meierheim -- he is waiting downstairs.
Where is Pimenov? Where is Pimenov? 
 He will be on the train.
But when did he go? How do you know?
Baron von Gaigern has left?
When? How long ago?
Oh -- Gru -- come, come -- we'll lose the train.
Madam Grusinskaya's car...
Come along, oh, Madam, come along. The train will be going.
Wait a minute. I've got to ask myself.
What's the use of asking, Gru -- he is at the train -- He will be there.
The troupe, the scenery, everything -- all on board, waiting. You have a rehearsal in Vienna tomorrow morning. Come, Madam, are you mad?
Have you seen Baron von Gaigern?
 The Baron is not here, Madam.
He is gone?
Yes, Madam.
Four minutes past. Please come.
Come, Lisaveta, he will be there -- he will be there.
 Madam Grusinskaya's car.
Oh, the sun -- it will be sunny in Tremezzo --
Every seat for the opening has been sold at Vienna. Sold out for three days.
I know -- I know -- but it will be sunny in Tremezzo. We'll have a guest then.
 Yes, Madam.
Madam Grusinskaya's car.
 Grand Hotel, Head Porter. What? There's been -- a child born? A boy! Yes! My child born! It is healthy... and my wife? Doing well -- all well!  The child has come. They are both alive. My child...
Let him take it.
Your bag, your Excellency --
 Cab please!
Cab, for his Excellency, Mr. Kringelein!
 And now we travel, Flaemmchen... Glad?
Am I!
 Is the bill ready -- the lady's too?
At once. Any forwarding address, Mr. Kringelein?
Yes, Paris -- Grand Hotel.
How do you know there is a Grand Hotel?
Oh, there must be one in Paris... They have everything in Paris.
Your bill, Your Excellency.
Was that Mr. Kringelein leaving?
