Pull over, man!
No way, I can out-run 'em!
No you can't--not in this thing! Another POLICE CRUISER FISHTAILS OUT OF A SIDE STREET and
Oh God, now there's two of 'em!
I don't care--I'm not stopping 'til we get there!
Are you crazy?!
Yeah, I'm crazy! I'm crazy about my wife!
Hear me out, gentlemen, I can explain every--! AS A BURLY OFFICER'S HEAD CONNECTS WITH RICK'S CHEST, we...
See the stud in the blue shorts? That's me the summer I got out of college.
Wow, Dad, you used to have muscles. REVERSE ANGLE reveals EMMA, 6, and GUNNAR, 4, sitting on either side of Rick.
I still have a few.
Where? Rick shoots him a look.
They're hidden. BACK ON TV SCREEN - A PRETTY GIRL with a knockout body comes up and puts her arms around Rick.
Who's that girl?
That's Mommy.
No, I mean the young one standing next to you.
That's Mommy.
Mommy used to have long hair? And she wore a bikini?
How come she doesn't wear a bikini anymore?
Is it because of her fat ass?
I guess. What? No. Who said Mommy's got a fat ass?
Mommy.
Well, uh, I don't appreciate that language, Gunnar. You've got the best mom in the whole world--don't ever say anything bad about her. Just then, MAGGIE comes GRUNTING into the room carrying a ONE- YEAR-OLD BABY in one arm and a basket of laundry in the other. She's in her late-30's, cute, with short, manageable mommy hair. She's wearing SWEATPANTS, an OVERSIZED T-SHIRT, and NO MAKE-UP.
Hey beautiful, you better get a move on--we're supposed to be meeting Fred and Grace soon.
I know, I know, I'm trying.
Well how long you gonna be?
Forty-five minutes--sooner if you help with the kids. Maggie looks to him, hopeful.
I'm kidding. Okay, kids, first one in the tub gets college paid for. Emma and Gunnar just stare at him.
Come on, you bums, let's go!
I miss going out with you on Saturday nights. She smiles at him.
I know, it's just like the old days. Rick pulls Maggie close as they walk.
Maybe we should make a rule that we go out at least six nights a week without the kids. Maggie GIGGLES.
I'm serious. We should go out every week--just you and me. A BEAUTIFUL BLONDE walks past them and Rick gives a QUICK GLANCE back AT HER ASS.
I think it'd be healthy.
You gotta be kidding me? Maggie pulls away.
What?
You just checked out that girl's butt.
I did?
Yeah, you did, and it's rude.
Why? You think she saw me?
saw you.
Oh, uh, yeah. I'm sorry, honey, I'm just kind of spacey today.
Come on, we're late! REVERSE ANGLE reveals Fred Searing and his wife GRACE, 38, waiting outside a restaurant. Fred sports a full-head of hair that's maybe a little too stiff. Grace is short and appealing in a Rachel Ray kind of way. Fred leans in to kiss Maggie as Rick kisses Grace.
Grace, let me ask you something: Does Fred ever check out other women in front of you?
No, Fred's not a gawker. Grace pats a pleased-looking Fred on the head.
Come on, Mags, let's go say hi to Dr. Lucy. We follow the women as they leave their husbands and ENTER the restaurant under a banner that says, 'Boston Psychiatric Association Person of the Year.'
There they are! ANOTHER ANGLE reveals DR. LUCY GILBERT, a very attractive and sophisticated-looking 40-year-old, holding court in the corner.
Dr. Lucy! Congratulations!
Girls, thank you so much for coming. Dr. Lucy speaks with a FRENCH ACCENT.
Are you kidding me? You're the only friend of ours who ever got an award--you think we're going to miss that? ANGLE ON Rick and Fred standing at the bar.
Do you mind telling me how your wife catches you checking out another girl? What is this, amateur hour?
The girl walked past and I glanced back at her for like half a second.
There's your problem, dumb-ass-- it's the wrong order. You don't wait for the girl to walk past and then glance back. You turn when she's still fifteen feet in front of you...then you wait for her to walk into your line of vision. Fred NOTICES an ATTRACTIVE WOMAN walking toward them from the right.
Observe. Before the woman reaches them, Fred turns to his left and holds the look until the Attractive Woman's ASS ENTERS HIS VIEW and he watches her walk away.
You see? I can't help it if her butt walks where I'm already looking.
Hey, guys. They turn to see a BEAUTIFUL WOMAN with a healthy tan walking past carrying several drinks. This is MISSY FRANKENFIELD, mid-30's.
 Don't forget to mingle! The guys watch Missy walk away.
Wow. Missy's looking pretty good for someone going through a divorce.
Yeah, that's rough stuff--I heard they might have to sell the house.
Too bad. You gonna hit 'em up for the listing?
What am I, a vulture? Nah, I don't go after the divorcee business unless they approach me first.
Yeah, it's kind of tacky, huh? As the guys crane their necks to get a better view of Missy's ass, we... REVERSE ANGLE to reveal Maggie, Grace and Dr. Lucy sipping lemondrops and watching Rick and Fred from across the room.
Look at those two meatheads checking out Missy Frankenfield. What, do they think they're invisible over there?
I thought you said Fred wasn't a gawker.
He was standing right next to you. I can't let him know that I know-- that would take all the fun out of it.
How about I drive the babysitter home while you go upstairs and prepare the altar? He puts his arm around her as they walk toward the front door.
I want to, honey, but I've got to get up early with the kids.
I'll get up with the kids.
But I have to go out and buy a gift- -they're going to a birthday party tomorrow.
I'll cjet the gift, then I'll take the kids to the park, then to the party. You can dust stay in bed,, get your beauty sleep, and bask in the sweet, sweet pounding I'm about to give you.
I love it when you sweet-talk me. Maggie smiles but as Rick opens the front door they FREEZE IN
THEIR POV - the babysitter  is standing there with their 4-year-old, Gunnar.
Mommy! Daddy!
This is just a minor obstacle.
How were the kids tonight?
Perfect. That Gunnar is so cute-- all he wants to do is wrestle with me. Rick smiles at this.
Mr. Mills, would it be okay to turn down the air--I'm a little chilly. Look--I got goose bumps. As she HOLDS OUT HER ARM to show him the GOOSE-BUMPS, we RACK FOCUS BEYOND HER ARM to the ERECT NIPPLES that are PIERCING THROUGH HER SHEER TOP like small tents. BACK ON Rick as his EYES GO WIDE WITH TERROR and he looks away.
Oh, uh, sure, I'm sorry. Flustered, he moves to the temperature control which in LARGE ILLUMINATED DIGITAL TYPE reads: 69!!! He quickly PUNCHES THE A/C OFF, then trains his eyes straight ahead and grips the steering wheel tight at ten-and-two.
Thank you.
'Welcome.
Mr. Mills, can I ask you something?
Sure.
I was wondering...
Buy you some.. .How old are you?
Twenty. But I'm turning twenty-one next week.
Oh. Happy birthday. That's a biggie.
Yeah. My aunt usually buys beer for me, but she's out of town.
Uh, I don't know, Paige...I could get in a lot of trouble for giving alcohol to a minor.
Oh, come on, I'm a junior in college. You drank when you were in college, didn't you?
Well, uh...
Besides, it's so arbitrary. How does it make sense that twenty's old enough to fight in Iraq or watch a porno movie, but it's too young to drink a beer? Rick shifts in his seat.
Really? Twenty's old enough to uh...?
Fight in Iraq?
No, the other thing.
Watch Porn? Oh, God yeah--half the girls in those things are my age. Rick catches a hint of cleavage, a flash of leg.
Look, I promise no one's gonna find out. If you want, you can join me down at the lake--we'll listen to some tunes and have a couple beers. Rick stares at her, pictures it in his head. She looks hopeful, open.
I'm sorry, Paige, I can't do that.
Why not?
Well... it would be.. .inappropriate. Rick's voice has taken on a firmer, more adult tone. Paige seems amused by it.
What, is that your grown-up voice?
No, Paige.  What are you thinking? I'm a married man and I have a family. You think they'd like it if they knew I was hanging out at the lake, all alone, drinking beer with a college girl?
All right, better get inside. She opens the car door, then glares back at him.
Ewww. What the hell were you thinking?
Go ahead. Scoot along now. As she SLAMS the car door, we...
Shhhh. He just fell asleep.
Awesome. Rick playfully pinches Maggie's butt as he follows her into their bedroom where...
Can I sleep with you tonight?
No.
Please.
No. Absolutely not. Maggie, clearly softening to the idea, shrugs at Rick.
Are you serious? Look, besides the other thing, I don't like the fact that my daughter needs someone to sleep with every night--that's not going to be good when she goes off to college, you know. Maggie rolls her eyes.
Well.. .can someone read me a story? Rick looks at Maggie, then at his daughter.
Okay, one quick story. Come on, jump on my back. Emma jumps on Rick's back.
Okay, honey, this is the last pony and then night-night. Emma finishes putting on a rubberband, then looks at him, satisfied.
There. You look pretty, Daddy.
Okay, now give me a kiss, hug and go to sleep. She lays back on her pillow. Rick gives her a big kiss on both cheeks.
I love you, Emma.
I love you, too, Daddy.
No. Please, no. Rick wants to wake her up but sees that she needs the sleep, so he just PULLS THE COVERS OVER HER SHOULDERS. As Rick walks around the bed and INTO THE BATHROOM in the b.g., we HOLD ON MAGGIE until she OPENS HER EYES. She listens to her husband brush his teeth with perhaps a tinge of GUILT, and when he shuts off the faucet, she CLOSES HER EYES AGAIN, and we...
Hey.
Hey. How'd you make out?
Great. Lost both sets.
So'd you get the business? Fred nods and wipes his brow.
Pretty sure I got the Auto and Home. He told me to call his accountant on Monday about the Life.
Nice. Fred looks around at all the pretty MOMS and NANNIES with their CHILDREN.
Can you believe the talent here today?
Ouch.
CPR girl's back, too. Rick nods toward A PIG-TAILED PARAMEDIC, early 30's, TEACHING A CPR CLASS. The two men look on solemnly.
Imagine if we were coming here back when we were single?
Monkey bars! The kids JUMP off the swings and RUN for the jungle gym.
Me first! Rick trails them like a Sherpa carrying a couple Razor scooters and a basketball as Fred tags along. They shlep past THE TRI-DELTA SORORITY playing ultimate frisbee and
So you get lucky last night?
Nah, the kids were up when we got home. How 'bout you?
Well, kinda lucky. Grace conked right out so I snuck out to the car and rubbed one out. Rick shoots Fred a look.
The car? What are you Knight Rider? Why didn't you just go in the bathroom like a normal guy?
And get caught by Grace? Can't risk it. Besides, cars turn me on--it's where I lost my virginity. And they're comfy--I just put the seat back and turn on the tunes. The guys sit on a bench.
That's one of the things they don't tell you when you're young--that you'll still be jerking-off after you get married. I thought it was dust gonna be a teenage thing.
Yeah, I didn't see that one coming. The two men sit in silence for a LONG BEAT as the Frisbee Girls play all around them.
You know what I miss the most?
What?
The arch.
What arch?
You know when you're taking a girl's panties off for the first time, and you're wondering if she's going to stop you, but then she gives you that little pelvic arch- thrust that tells you that the struggle's over, everything's going to be okay? Rick SIGHS.
That's a happy moment.
Yep. Another thing gone forever. Rick looks at his watch.
I should get going, I have to drop the kids off at a birthday party.
You want to grab a coffee after?
Do you have any interest in going down to the Patriot's training camp one of these days?
Are you kidding, I'd love that. Except...I always feel kind of pathetic waiting in line for Tom Brady's autograph.
Fred, I was planning on bringing the kids.
Genius! That's the perfect cover! Rick shoots him a look then REACTS to something O.S.
Uh-oh... HIS POV - SLO-MO of a BEAUTIFUL GIRL walking toward him. Her straight brown hair shimmers.. .her blue eyes twinkle.. .her white uniformed blouse is unbuttoned enough to reveal a tasteful amount of CLEAVAGE. This is COFFEE GIRL, 23, granola, fresh, Australian, spacey. BACK ON THE GUYS staring in awe.
Did you see her face? Her face is tremendous.
 Please don't have a nice ass, please don't have a nice ass... But as she turns to pour a cup of coffee, we see that HER ASS IS SPECTACULAR. Rick turns away, annoyed.
Oh, come on! That's ri iculous.
I know. She's from Australia. Been working here about a month.
Why'd you have to bring me here?!
Okay, cool it, tiger--here she comes. Coffee Girl steps up to the counter and smiles at Fred.
How about your mate there?
 Hey, Old Navy, you like a muffin with that?
Uh, sure. What do you recommend?
They're all good. The Wannabe Artist-Type steps protectively up beside Coffee Girl.
I'd go with the bran muffin--you guys are probably having digestive issues at your age, right? Rick flinches at this, then turns to Coffee Girl.
I'll have a blueberry muffin please.
Make it a bran muffin for me. Rick shoots Fred a look, clearly annoyed. As Coffee Girl turns to get their order, we go to...
Did you notice she's from Cleavage, Ohio?
Yeah. I bet her areolas look like a couple of pepperoni slices. Fred trains his eyes back on Coffee Girl and SQUINTS
What the hell are you doing?
Shh. I'm taking a mental photograph for my spank bank.
Jesus Christ, guys, give it a rest.
Oh, hey, Ed. Didn't see you there.
That's because you were shooting laser beams at the java babe.
Well, no, we were just--
Come on, gentlemen, you're married men and she's half your age--grow
The guys can't muster a response.
So I guess I'll be seeing you at the house-warming party this weekend.
Hm?
This Saturday afternoon at the new casa--we're inally in and we're having a little celebration.
Oh, I don't know if we can--
Your wives already RSVP'd.
Right on.
'Til then. Ed HOLDS OUT HIS FIST to them.
Come on, pound the potato. Rick and Fred reluctantly take turns TAPPING Ed's fist with theirs. Then Ed leaves.
He's right though. Fred looks at Rick.
What are we doing sitting here gawking at her for? We're married men--it's creepy.
I don't see what the big deal is-- we're not hurting anyone. What is he Big Brother--he's gonna tell me what I can look at now? For God sakes, don't take that away from me- -it's all I got! As Rick thinks about this, we...
Rick, you open. Rick takes a fresh DOLLAR BILL off the pile in front of him and STUDIES THE SERIAL NUMBERS.
Four 9's.
Hey, where's Coakley? How come he didn't show?
Vegas. Hawaiian Tropic finals. The guys nod their approval.
Man, imagine being Coakley? The guy's single, he's loaded, chicks love him, he doesn't have to answer to anybody.
That's the life.
That is the life.
Let me ask you something: What would you guys pay to have your way with a Hawaiian Tropic girl for an entire weekend? The guys perk up as they think about this.
You get to pick any one you want-- and you know up front that you won't get her pregnant, no diseases, you're never gonna hear from her again, and your wife will never find out.
How's it possible to know that my wife won't find out?
But would I still have memory of it?
Oh yeah. Great memories.
Oof. I think I'd pay 500 bucks for that. Baker shoots him a look.
You cheap,bastard. We're talking about an investment that gets your rocks off and protects your wife's feelings. I'd pay five grand.
Wow.
Well, excuse me, Mr. Wall Street, but us public school teachers aren't getting any of that bail-out money you're over-tipping everyone with. Just then, the front door OPENS and Maggie ENTERS.
Hey, guys.
Oh, hey, honey. How was the book club?
Great.
What did you guys read this month?
Hemingway.
Old Man and the Sea?
No, Muriel's yoga book. The guys LAUGH.
Actually, we were supposed to be discussing The Sun Also Rises but Grace pulled out a bottle of tequila and that was the end of that. So, did the kids go down easy?
Gunnar and Emma stalled for a while, but they weren't bad.
How about the baby? Rick points to the BABY MONITOR in the middle of the table.
Not a peep.
Great job. Now win some money, honey. She kisses Rick and walks out of the room.
I wish I could drink tequila. It's a great buzz but it always gives me the spins and then I have to go home early.
You want to know a sure cure for the spins? Fred puts a hand over his right eye.
Just cover up one eye. It balances out the equilibrium.
Or you could find a nice 12-step program.
Oh, you poor thing... She hurries to the Baby and PICKS HIM UP.
Silly Daddy... he got the monitors mixed-up. Have you been listening to those loud-mouths all night? As Maggie moves to turn off the monitor, we HEAR:
.So how 'bout you, Fred--how much would you pay to s end an entire weekend with one of the hottest women in the world? Maggie hesitates and LISTENS IN.
I wouldn't have to pay--I'm married to her. There's a BEAT, then the guys EXPLODE IN LAUGHTER.
No, seriously, I'd pay five grand, easy. Maggie's JAW DROPS.
I'd have to figure out a way to get it out of the bank without Grace noticing, but I suppose the genie could help me with that.
You could put me down for seven- five.
Pfttt. Hog-head, your ass doesn't have seven-five. More LAUGHTER from the guys as Rick deals out fresh bills.
So what's your number, Rick?
Oh jeez, Flats, I don't know...
Come on.. any girl you choose. You get to do anything you want with her, and your wife will never find out. It's completely harmless, a one-time thing--what would you pay for that? BACK ON MAGGIE as she cradles her baby and LEANS CLOSER to the monitor.
I honestly don't know, fellas.
Ballpark. PUSH IN ON MAGGIE as she waits nervously for her husband's answer.
Well... I've got a great wife and I sure wouldn't want to hurt her feelings, so... Maggie SMILES at this. That's my guy!
I guess the real question is, what wouldn't I pay?! The guys LAUGH O.S. and MAGGIE REACTS, as we...
What wouldn't you pay?!
I didn't really mean it, honey.  They kind of put me on the spot. Look, some of the other guys were throwing out some pretty hefty bids.
What does that have to do with anything?
Well... I'm the host of the party, I didn't want to be a buzz-kill.
Look, all I was saying was, there's no amount of money I wouldn't pay to protect you and the kids.
How is having sex with a hooker protecting me and the kids?
No one said anything about hookers.
You were paying for sex--what would you call her?
Fred said five grand? What a blowhard!
You know what's even funnier? Hog- head McCormick said he'd pay seven grand.
What?! That bum hasn't worked since the dot-com bust--his wife supports him! The girls LAUGH.
Well, look on the bright side: At least they're not cheating on us.
Sometimes I wonder if it would be better if they did cheat and get it over with.
You mean, rather than take the slow boat to resentment? The girls look to Dr. Lucy.
A what?
A hall pass. A week off from marriage. Grace and Maggie stop chewing.
Wait a minute. . .Are you saying let them go out and cheat?
I'm saying give them a week off from marriage.
That's Fred. He thinks because he sees big tits everywhere and then still comes home for dinner that I should be welcoming him at the door like some conquering hero. Dr. Lucy smiles.
Well, maybe it's time to let them go out there and find out what it's really like.
Wow. You're talking about the nuclear option. Maggie ponders the idea.
And remind me again, what good could possibly come from this...?
There's a wonderful principle in psychology called 'reactance theory.' It basically states that if you're constantly told you can't do something, you want to do it more than ever. And conversely, if you remove the taboo, you remove the obsession. Grace makes a 't' sound.
Oh, I have. Grace and Maggie REACT to this.
You're telling us you let Charlie sleep with another woman? Dr. Lucy takes a moment before answering.
I am not telling you that. I am telling you that I gave him the freedom to choose for himself.
And...?
All I know is...our marriage is better than ever. Grace and Maggie think about this.
I don't know. There's a reason that men evolved and apes didn't. It's because women demanded more. Without a wife, Einstein would've been humping a maple tree all day. As the women LAUGH, we
There he is! The lord of the manor!
Come on, everyone in the shack! The grand tour's about to begin!
I call it headquarters. LARRY BOHAC, mid-40's, and his blonde bombshell of a wife, MANDY,  look around in awe.
Un-believable.
That's sweet of you to say, Mandy.
It's epic, Ed. Ed points to one wall which houses a GLASSED-IN HUMIDOR.
Wait a second, Ed, first I want to show them Lny headquarters. Fred looks at Rick and rolls his eyes.
It's my paradise.
With a price tag north of one hundred and forty large, it better be paradise. Ed holds out his fist and Rick obediently POUNDS IT. Just then Grace NOTICES that Fred has disappeared.
Hey, where did Fred go? Rick turns and sees that he's missing.
What are you doing?
I can't take these look-at-how-much- I-own parties. It's obnoxious. Rick nods and sits down beside him.
When I bought my completely-loaded Honda Odyssey, I didn't go around bragging about it, did I?
Well, kind of. You made me drive around town with you for two hours, remember?
Why'd you have to hook your boat up to it?
Because it's the Touring Edition, numb-skull. The thing can tow more weight than ninety percent of the pick-ups out there!
The mantle actually came all the way from Tuscany, which is in Europe.
Hey, gang, check this out.
Oh God, Eddie, they don't need to see that--they'll think we're wackos. Ed PUNCHES A CODE into a keypad and the WALL SLIDES OPEN revealing a SAFE ROOM.
Oh my God... this is like secret agent stuff.
I think having a safe room is a bit over the top, but Ed feels with our two little ones you can never be too cautious.
Aw, you're such a good daddy.
 Rick can't even set up the baby monitors right. Ed points to a monitor where we see Rick and Fred ENTER the master bedroom.
Here come Tweedle-dee and Tweedle- dum. CLOSE ON VIDEO MONITOR - we see Rick and Fred cross over to the master bathroom doorway and look in.
.All I'm saying is, who gets a mini-van when you don't even have any kids?
You don't know much about the insurance game, do you, Rick? When you pull into a person's driveway to sell them life insurance, who do you think they'd rather see? A hot- shot in a Porsche or a family man in a mini-van? Hm? Rick looks around the empty room.
Hey, where'd everyone go?
They can't hear you. The room's completely soundproof.
And bulletproof. ON VIDEO MONITOR WALL - we see Rick and Fred LEAVE ONE SCREEN and ENTER ANOTHER.
They must've gone downstairs. Fred motions to Ed's humidor room.
Uh, maybe we should turn this off. But Ed turns THE VOLUME UP. CLOSE ON MONITOR - Rick plays along with a BAD BRITISH
Is that so, dear boy? And what happens if you lose power during a big blow and your main generator doesn't kick in?
Well that's why I had the back-up generator installed in Kimmy's rumpus. Kimmy makes a face, shocked.
 Here we go...
Hey, speaking of installations, is that a shiny new set of cans on Mandy Bohac?
Either that or she's wearing her daughter's t-shirt.
They look good but I'll still take the real deal any day.
Right. You're telling me you'd take Kimmy Long's flapjacks over Mandy's new speedbags?
That's what I'm telling you. I like boobs with a little mileage on 'em. They're more fun.
Fun?
Yeah. You can smoosh 'em, swing 'em, hump 'em, Stretch-Armstrong 'em.
And what about the proven correlation between floppy boobs and large-mouth vaginas?
You people are horrible! Horrible!
Uh, anyone thinking chocolate chip cookie dough in a waffle cone? Grace YANKS the mini-van to the side of the road and GLARES
Large-mouth vaginas?! As the guys cower, we
You know what really troubles me? The thing that you're all so obsessed with is meaningless to you. It's really just about numbers with you guys. Rick looks up, confused.
Rick, you can't even tel me the month you lost your virginity. I can tell you the exact day and hour that I lost mine. Rick seems a little embarrassed by this.
Well, virginity is different for guys.
The point is, obviously I like sex, too--it means something to me--but I don't walk around gawking at every guy I see.
All right, so I occasionally notice other women. I'm sorry.
Occasionally? Rick rakes his hands through his hair and decides to come clean.
Okay, you want the truth? You really want me to pull back the curtain here? From the moment I leave the house in the morning 'til the moment I get home, I pretty much notice every woman in my path. Maggie turns to face him.
But it's not how you think it is, Mags. It's like... it's like a curse. I don't want to notice, but I can't help it. It's always been like that. I figured that when I c jot married that would be it, but it wasn't--the thing,doesn't give two shits about marriage.
No. Of course I'm happy, honey--our sex life is great--not that I wouldn't mind a little more, but-- look, one thing has nothing to do with the other. I think about sex a lot--all guys do--that's just the way it is. Maggie sits down beside him, clearly at the end of her rope. No one speaks for a few moments. Then:
I'm giving you a hall pass.
A what?
One week off from marriage.
You mean, like a trial separation? You are seriously overreacting.
It's not a separation, it's a hall pass. You can do whatever you want. Get it out of your system.
It's not a yes or no offer, and it's not a debate. You're getting a hall pass. As Maggie heads upstairs, we PUSH IN on a confused Rick.
'Morning.
 There's a couple hard-boiled eggs in a bowl there for you.
I'm gonna have to take them to go, hon, I've got a showing in fifteen minutes. Rick puts the eggs in his pocket, then approaches Maggie and kisses her on the cheek.
Hey, about this hall pass business.. .1 don't want it and I don't need it. All I need is--
I told you, this isn't negotiable. She turns and faces him.
You're really serious about this?
Rick, this isn't something that I...look, I really think you need this. I think we need this. Rick doesn't know what to say.
This afternoon I'm taking the kids out to my parent's beach house. Rick REACTS to this.
For how long?
We'll be back in one week. And as far as I'm concerned, starting right now. .. you have the week off from marriage.
Hey, what are you doing here?
I called your office and they told me you were in the neighborhood. Rick turns to the couple.
Oh, this is a friend of mine, Fred Searing. Fred, this is Harold and Nancy Goldberg--they're moving up here from Long Island.
Well, mazel tov, folks. The Goldbergs look at Fred a little warily as he takes out a card.
Here, let me give you my card. Home, auto, or life insurance--I'm the go-to mensch in town.
We're good on insurance. Rick quickly jumps in.
 Uh, why don't you two take another look around and if you have any questions I'll be right here.
Thank you. The Goldbergs walk out and Rick closes the door behind them.
You weren't picking up your cell--I wanted to see how much trouble you got in last night. You know what Grace made me do? She made me call the Longs and apologize. Rick flinches.
Oof .
How 'bout you--did Maggie freak out when you got home?
Uh... sort of. Rick peeks out the kitchen door to make sure the Goldberg's aren't listening. Then:
She gave me a hall pass.
A what?
A week off from marriage to do whatever I want. She's going to her parents' house down the Cape 'til next Sunday. Fred SNICKERS.
Yeah, right.
I'm serious.
You're full of shit.
Fred, it's true. You think I could make something like this up? Fred stares at him.
I don't get it--why aren't you more excited?
Well...I don't know how I feel.
About...?
The hall pass. Something about it isn't right.
You mean, like, you think Maggie might have a brain tumor or something?
No. I mean, just because my wife tells me it's okay to cheat... is it?
Uh, yeah.
Yeah, but there's a part of me that's saying, 'Wow, you must have pushed her pretty hard to get her to this point.' And is that good for a marriage? That your wife is willing to try something this insane? Fred can't believe his ears.
Absolutely!
The oven's a GE.
It's a real gas oven! And what about you, huh? Come on, man, your wife is living her dreams.. .and now it's time for you to live yours. As Rick thinks about this, we
I don't know, I think this is some very forward-thinking on Maggie's part.
Quit lobbying--you're not getting a hall pass. And you mark my words, this is going to end up biting Maggie in the ass. At the top of the stairs Fred puts his arms around her.
Why would I need a hall pass? I've got you.
Not tonight you don't. I'm too bloated and I have cramps.
I don't mind.
Fred, do I have to spell it out for you? I'm having my period.
Come on, hon, give me a break. Not tonight. Disappointed, Fred watches her walk toward the bedroom.
The Officer motions for his partner to join him. As Fred continues to POUND HIMSELF TO THE MUSIC, Officer #2 climbs out of the cruiser. He takes out his flashlight and SHINES IT ON FRED'S O.S. LAP. As the weary officers look at each other with a NOW-WE'VE-SEEN-IT-ALL EXPRESSION, we...
All right, ma'am, if you say he's yours.. .you can have him. The Officer TAKES OFF FRED'S HANDCUFFS.
Thank you, officers. Fred scurries into the house ahead of Grace. As soon as the door shuts, we HEAR:
I got a Hall Pass!
How?
Doesn't matter how. I got one. Can you believe it?! I got a hall pass! Rick stands up, elated.
And I've got a hall pass!
We both have hall passes!
When does yours start? Fred looks at his watch.
Twenty-three minutes ago! She just left for the Cape--she's staying with Maggie. It's just you and me for the next six days!
Oh my God, do you realize how much easier this is going to make it-- having a hall pass partner?
And it's not just me--Baker, Gary, and Hog-head are coming out with us tonight!
No way?! They got hall passes, too?!
No, no, no--they just want to watch. Rick grows concerned.
You think that's a good idea, letting them in on it? What if they blab and it gets around town--it might embarrass our wives.
Don't worry, I already talked to them. Their lips are sealed. Rick and Fred smile.
We're living the dream, baby!
The guy at the Holiday Inn Express told me this place really kicks in around nine-thirty.
Hey, why are you staying at a hotel if your wives are out of town?
Well, we can't very well take babes back to our places--if they know where we live they might end up stalking us.
Besides, I wouldn't be able to concentrate with all the pictures everywhere and the kids' cut-outs all over the fridge.
Yeah, isn't it weird how your own kids can creep you out sometimes? Rick shoots Gary a look.
I get the feeling there's a lot of divorcees in this place.
That's good. Divorcees are into kinky sex--that's why they're divorced. Just then the BARTENDER arrives with the Miller Genuine Drafts and the guys CLINK BOTTLES.
So come on, point out which girls you guys are gonna do tonight. Gary elbows Fred as he spots TWO MIDDLE-AGED WOMEN at the end of the bar.
What about those two? Why don't you bang them?
No way. They're doing the
they're obviously hiding something back there.
Okay, how about the blonde hostess? Maybe somebody should nail her, huh?
Attempt to be cool, Gary--we've got a whole week. Baker looks around at the lame bar scene.
Are you guys sure that Applebee's is the best place to be picking up women?
What are you thinking--Olive Garden?
Nah, that's only good on Thursday nights.
Hey, what about the auto show? Baker shoots them a look.
Are you guys for real?
Wait a second--where's Coakley? That's where we should be.
He's in Iceland.
What's he doing there?
What do you think he's doing there? The guys all nod at this, proud of him.
Look, before we go bagging any chicks, I gotta get a hunk of beef in me.
Hey, I got a guy over at Outback Steak House who could set us up.
Ooooh, he's got pull over at Outback. Wow.
Hey, I like Outback. Let's chug these and hit the road.
Hey, Gar, you don't happen to have any connections at 7/11, do ya? Maybe someone could hook me up with a player's card so I can cut right to the front of the raspberry slurpy line. The guys all LAUGH, as we
I think we might've made a huge mistake.
Stop thinking about it, Grace. Why don t you just try to get some sleep? Grace turns to Maggie.
Sleep? I can't sleep. I don't understand you--how can you Just sit there and read knowing that Rick could be making out with a supermodel right now? Maggie doesn't answer.
Our husbands aren't married this week. Do you know what husbands do when they're not married?
Shh. You're going to wake the kids.
Are you going to sit there and tell me you're not the least bit concerned about what they're doing right now? Maggie SIGHS.
Okay... I'm a little concerned.
Of course I'm concerned. But what choice did we have?
We could've kept the status quo. I mean, were things really that bad that we had to try something this extreme?
For me they were.
Remember last week when we went to Lucy's award thing? Grace nods.
That night when we got home, Rick and I were gonna.. .you know... and I was waiting for him in bed while he tucked the kids in, and I started wondering who he would be thinking about during sex. Would it be the girl he checked out on the way into the party? Or would it be Missy Frankenfield--because I noticed him gawking at her? Or how about one of the waitresses, or maybe somebody he saw at work that day? Then when he came into the room, I did something I'd never done before: I pretended to be asleep.
You're kidding me? You've never done that? I do that all the time! Maggie almost smiles.
Look, I understand that people have fantasies and that you're not always thinking about the person you're with.
That's for sure.
But it's just...I don't know... it's been too long since I felt that he was thinking about me.
I need this hall pass to work, Grace, because if it doesn't, I don't know what's going to happen.
Okay... so where to now? Rick can't think in this state.
Fred...?
Hm?
Answer Baker.
What's the question?
What are we doing for the rest of the night?
I gotta go home and poo.
Now?
Yeah, I put too much Hollandaise on the mozzarella sticks.
Why don't you just back one out here?
I'm pretty sure I'm gonna need a bath afterwards.
Come on, you guys! I say we go to a strip club and smoke cigars-- that 11 wake us up!
I got a better idea. Rick STRETCHES.
Let's go night-night.
What?
I say we tie a bow on it and put her to bed. This is gonna be a long week so we should pace ourselves. Baker looks at his watch.
It's only nine-thirty!
I'm with Rico.
Relax, guys, this is just the calm before the storm. Get out the plywood and batten down the hatches.
That's right. Tonight we build up strength, tomorrow we make landfall.
Wow. This place sure beats the hell out of the Holiday Inn Express. Why aren't you staying here?
Too pricey. Besides, since we're paying for golf we get full access to the resort--including the pool bar.
Mothers, lock up your daughters-- the dogs are off the leash!
Turn-and-burn, baby! Gary raises his hand for a HIGH-FIVE, but Rick balks.
Nope. I don't do that.
Hey, I say screw the golf--let's go straight to the pool bar and start getting you guys laid!
Hoch-head, relax, the pool bar ain't going nowhere. Besides, it'll be good for us to get a little sun before making our grand entrance-- chicks love a healthy glow.
Plus it wouldn't hurt to work up a little sweat--get those pheromones flying. Just then, two sexy BEER-CART GIRLS wave as they pass.
You talked me into it.
Hey, guys, look what I brought. Gary holds up a ZIPLOCK BAG full of something chocolatey.
What's that?
Pot brownskies. The guys all look at one another, baffled.
What, are we on spring break? Where the hell'd you get those?
I got an in.
With who?
Guy who washes my dog. Go ahead. He holds out the bag and the guys hesitate.
Eating it isn't like smoking it. It's a much mellower buzz--you'll just feel relaxed.
Are they chocolatey? As Hog-Head SNIFFS the brownies, Rick takes a practice swing.
Hog-head, come on, who eats pot brownies at eleven in the morning when they're playing golf?
John Daly?
And by the way, Rick, this is spring break! You've got a hall pass! Live it up, man! It'll probably help your rap with the ladies later.
Gary's right--when are we ever gonna get the chance to do pot brownies again? Hog-Head takes a brownie and BITES INTO IT.
Mmm. These are yummy.
You don't even have a hall pass.
So? I can still live vicariously through you guys, can't I?
It's not vicarious if you're actually doing it.
Whatever. Just hit your ball. Hog-Head takes ANOTHER BITE.
Oh, what the hell, it's not like my game can get any worse.
All right, give me one of those things. As Rick drops his club and walks toward the brownies, we
What kind of soap do you use?
Yeah.
Dove.
Yeah, I like Dove--it doesn't dry your skin so much. Fred stares into space.
Sometimes it's hard to wash off, though. Because of the moisturizer. You ever notice--?
I think Hog-head's dead. Fred looks over and sees Hog-head SPRAWLED OUT ON HIS BACK IN A SAND TRAP. He's not moving.
What the hell is he doing? Rick and Fred grow visibly tense at the sight of an authority figure.
Uh, he's having back spasms.
Not him. Him. Rick and Fred turn and see Gary STANDING CHEST-DEEP in the MIDDLE OF A POND just STARING AT THEM.
I don't know--you tell me! Gary starts to LAUGH MANIACALLY. The Ranger turns to Rick, annoyed.
Look, this is the third time I've had to flag your group and you're only on the fourth hole. Now if I have to come out here again, you're done for the day.
Gotcha. We'll pick it up, sir. The Ranger shoots them a look and DRIVES OFF toward the TWO ASIAN FOURSOMES waiting on the tee behind them.
Think. Where did you last see it?
On the course.
Where on the course?
I don't know--on a fairway, I think. I clot out, grabbed my club, took a swing, and when I turned around it had disappeared.
You're serious? You're telling us you lost your golf cart?
Shut up, Fred.
Guys, I gotta go poo again.
I didn't lose it, I think it was stolen.
Criminals?
Does anyone have any napkins?
Look, all I know is I had it on the seventh tee and now it's gone.
What are you talking about? We're only on the sixth hole.
What? Did we miss a hole? Where's my kids? Rick closes his eyes and rubs his head, trying to keep it together. Then he NOTICES something O.S..
Oh, come on, man! ANOTHER ANGLE REVEALS Hog-head down in a greenside bunker PULLING UP HIS PANTS. As he starts to KICK SAND over his O.S. POOP like a cat in its litter box, we HEAR a noise and the guys look up. THEIR POV - the Golf Ranger comes flying over a hill heading straight for them.
Run for it! The guys run toward Rick's cart, jump in, and take off. Rick and Fred are in the seats, while Gary and Hog-head HANG OFF THE BACK. The cart BARRELS down a cart path with the Ranger
He's gaining on us!
I can't go any faster, I've got it floored!
Cut through the woods! Without slowing down, Rick TURNS SHARPLY TO THE RIGHT and Gary and Hog-head TUMBLE OUT OF THE CART. With panic etched across their sweaty faces, Gary and Hog- head quickly jump to their feet and run after the cart. Rick slows just enough for them to catch up and jump back on, then he speeds down a maintenance path and DISAPPEARS INTO THE
Hey, Mom, look! The family turns to see... THEIR POV - a stoned-looking Rick, Fred, Hog-head and Gary are driving the golf cart down the city street. They stop at a traffic light beside them. All the guys stare straight ahead, ZOMBIE-LIKE, except for Fred who NOTICES the Longs. He nods.
Ed. Kimmy. Clones. The light changes and as the golf cart DRIVES OFF through the busy intersection, we go BACK ON ED AND KIMMY shaking their heads.
Their poor wives.
Hey, I'm Gerry--thanks for coming out and supporting us.
Oh, it was fun. You guys looked good.
Thanks. Gerry glances back at his TEAMMATES who are clearly egging him on.
So...we saw you sitting up there with those little kids--are you nannies or something? The girls aren't immune to flattery and they smile.
No, they're my kids.
Uh-huh. A couple other PLAYERS amble over.
Dudes, they're not nannies, they're mommies.
No way?!
Well, she is, not me. I'm not old enough yet. Maggie and the players LAUGH.
Guys! The players turn to see their coach, RICK COLEMAN, approaching with MAGGIE'S FATHER, mid-70's.
Time to pack things up--let's go!
Maggie, Grace, this is Rick Coleman- -the coach. Rick Coleman is a granite-jawed 38-year-old with a good head of hair and an easy-going manner.
I hope those clowns weren't bothering you.
Oh, no, they were sweet.
Yeah. Cute kids.
So you're the guy who's been taking money off my dad every Saturday on the golf course?
I hate to break it to you but your old man's the one who's been taking all the money--he's a thief. Maggie's Father LAUGHS.
Hey, everyone's coming back to my place for some beers and a barbecue- -why don't you join us?
Oh, thanks, but we've gotta get the kids home.
Your mom and I will take 'em home. You two go out and have a good time- -cripes, you haven't been out all week. Grace perks up at this.
Oh, I don't know, Dad, we really
Excuse me, can I have a word with you? Grace pulls Maggie aside.
Oh, come on, Grace, these guys are barely out of college, and, in case you've forgotten, we're married.
To who? Last I heard, Rick and Fred had the week off from marriage. So remind me again--who are we married to? Maggie thinks about this.
Well...I guess one beer won't kill us.
Why shouldn't we have fun? God knows our guys are living it up.
What would you guys rather do--make- out with a guy or let him blow you? PULL BACK TO REVEAL that...
And you've gotta pick one or someone in your family will die-- that's the rule.
Oh boy, that's a toughie.
How long would you have to make-out with him?
Ten minutes.
Tongue?
Of course.
And how long would he have to blow you?
Seven minutes.
Oof. I mean, getting blown by a dude is bad, but making out with a guy, it's so.. .intimate.
You think it's more intimate than getting blown by a guy?
Way more.
All right, the hell with this shit, I'm outta here. Baker gets up from his stool.
I wanted to watch you guys pick up chicks, not talk about dicks.
Hey, greased lightning, let off the gas--sometimes these things take time.
Baker's right. This is day three and you haven't even talked to a girl.
I guess I'm gonna get going, too.
Yeah, this is boring. You guys are pussies.
Hey, I haven't seen you guys talk to any girls.
We don't have hall passes!
Hey, guys, it's all right if you strike-out.. .but for godsakes, at least take a couple of swings. A moment later the guys are gone and a humbled Rick and Fred sit there feeling alone.
No, you do not. And I love those guys but, let's be honest, they're not exactly chick-magnets.
You can say that again. Yep, the steak always looks better if you trim away some of the fat. And let's face it, we are the steak.
Dream team, baby. The guys CLINK BEERS. Then:
Maybe we should call the girls and ask them to come home. Fred glances at him, aghast.
What?
Who are we kidding, man? Do you really think we're going to be picking up any girls this week?
Why wouldn't we?
Because that's not us anymore.
Wait a second. You want to quit?
Fred, we're not the same guys we were fifteen years ago, back when we were single. We've changed. Fred stares at him, incredulous.
No, man, you've changed. All you care about is yourself--what about all the guys out there who are counting on us to make this thing work?
What are you talking about?
Don't you get it?
That's right--this thing is bigger than us! Our wives didn't give us this hall pass, the good Lord did! And what do we have to show for it? Nothing.
Come off it, Fred. Obviously hooking up isn't something we really want--if it was, we could've done it by now.
Could we have? Rick is taken aback by this.
Guess what? I did want to. And you know how close I got? We're three days in and the only woman I've spoken to was our waitress at Outback. And she never even made eye-contact.
I don't really care if some waitress makes eye-contact. I want to go home--I miss my wife and kids.
Let me explain something to you: If Grace and Maggie find out we can't get laid on our own, they'll start thinking we need them to get laid. Do you know what that'll do to the balance of power in our homes? It'll destroy it! Rick thinks about this and grows alarmed.
Well, what if we just tell them that we did hook up?
We can't. Grace'll know. She always knows when I'm lying.
Hey, what about a massage parlor?
No! That's giving up. Fred glares at him.
You don't get it, do you? A hall pass ain't all about sex. It's about being man enough to pick up a woman even though you may not be what--in the traditional sense--is considered... (makes quotes with
.good-looking, or...  .appealing. Rick seems stung by this news.
Look, if we can't show that something positive can come from having a hall pass, then the whole concept is dead. Not just for us...but for all mankind. Rick thinks about this for a moment, then stands up with a
All right, let's get out of here. I know exactly where we should be.
So how about you, Rick, do you have any children?
Nah, but maybe some day. Your mom keeps talking about hooking me up with your cousin Kate. Maggie LAUGHS.
That's not a good sign.
No, I hardly know her. She moved to Miami when I was eight.
That's what your mom said. I coach at the University of Miami.
Then you should go out with her.
Nice try.
Uh...fourteen years. We were college sweethearts.
Nice. And where is he this week?
He's up in Boston.
Poor guy. All work and no play, huh? Maggie forces a smile.
Something like that. Suddenly Grace is PROPELLED OUT OF THE WATER and UP ONTO
Stop it! What are you doing?!
Jackpot, baby. Rick NOTICES SOMETHING O.S..
How about those two? ANGLE ON two pretty LATINO WOMEN sitting alone at a table.
Ooh, yeah. Daddy likes. Fred pulls a piece of paper out of his back pocket and hands it to Rick.
What's this?
I went on-line this afternoon and wrote down some good pick-up lines to break the ice.
That's a good one--except for one thing: We don't have a puppy, so when she gets there she'll realize we're full of shit. Rick shoots him a look.
I don't think it's supposed to be for real. It's just to make her laugh so she'll talk to you. Fred considers this.
Oh God no, it doesn't work on that level. Here, this is my favorite. He takes the paper from Rick.
It's a charmer but you know what? We don't need phony pick-up lines. Why don't we just be ourselves?
Great. If you know how to. Rick takes a DEEP BREATH and braces himself.
Give me the helmet. Fred hands him the helmet, then Rick marches up to the two Latino Women with the helmet under his arm and Fred close on his heels.
Hi. The women give him a pleasant look.
Hola. LONG BEAT as Rick tries to figure what to say next. Then:
Well.. .this is awkward. I feel like I'm back at my first junior high school mixer.
So...are you ladies from Ireland?
I'm very surprised to hear that news, because when I look at you my penis doubles in size. The women FLINCH at this, losing their smiles. Fred leans in.
No, he means his dick is Dublin. Like the city. In Ireland. As the girls turn away from them, we begin a... MUSIC MONTAGE - Hall & Oates' I Can't Go For That plays as our GUYS GET SHOT DOWN by a DOZEN DIFFERENT BEAUTIFUL WOMEN.
I have this overwhelming urge to donkey-kick everyone in this bar.
Okay, tiger, keep your chin up--no one said this was going to be easy. Even in college you had to take fifty rejections for every score, remember?
Yeah, but it didn't sting so much when I was drunk. Fred perks up.
That's it! We should be drinking!
You're right. We're too stiff.
Way too stiff. We gotta start pounding 'em, get those creative juices flowing, bring the soul to the surface. Rick smiles.
That's when we're at our most charming!
You say no to me? You say no to me?! I SAY NO TO YOU! He's being restrained by an unusually patient BOUNCER. In the b.g. we see Rick PASSED OUT ON A STOOL in a VERY AWKWARD
Come on, buddy, let's go... The women glare at Fred with disgust, maybe even a little amusement.
No, screw them!  You think your shit don't stink?! Well I got news for ya: I wouldn't titty-bang you in a snow storm!
, Oh, please, sir, please titty-bang us in a snow storm! The women LAUGH.
Nope, you blew it, not gonna happen.
 There you go, mister, you got 'em good. Now let's go. As the Bouncer drags him toward the exit, a STUNNING GIRL passes them WEARING TIGHT LEATHER PANTS with an AMERICAN FLAG PRINT ON THE BUTT. Fred turns to her.
I know what we've been doing wrong. Rick lifts his chin.
If we're gonna break out of this slump, we've got to start using our strength. And that is.. .people who know us, like us. So we should go after the women we've already won over.
You mean like our wives?
Yeah, like that, but not them. Fred sits in the chair across from Rick.
I was thinking Coffee Girl.
You've won over Coffee Girl?
Well, I'm sure she'd recognize me. Rick thinks about this.
Look, if you really want to go after someone you already know, have you considered Missy Frankenfield?
She's got all the stats you like-- she's beautiful, you k now her phone n ow- number, she's freshly divorced...
Which according to Hog-head means she's horny.
Bingo. As Fred smiles, we
What's up, beach bunnies? Grace and Maggie sit up and smile.
What are you doing here? He KICKS OFF THE SKI, then runs over and SHAKES HIS WET BODY
Hey, where are the kiddies? We thought we'd take you all for a boat ride.
My parents took them to Martha's Vineyard for the weekend. Just then, we hear a LOUD HORN. They look up to see the boat pulling close to shore. Rick Coleman is behind the wheel and a couple PLAYERS are in the back. Maggie waves.
Can I take your order? Rick sees that there's no one behind him. He turns to the Wannabe.
Uh...I don't know what I want. Wannabe stares at him, waiting. Rick hesitates a few moments, then levels with the guy.
Look, man, I want her to take my order.
Why?
Uh, she knows how I like it.
Hi. What would you like? Rick was hoping to have a conversation but Wannabe is crowding them.
Iced coffee. With two Splendas. Leigh rings him up.
That'll be two dollars. Rick hands her a fiver and nods toward the speakers.
By the way, nice tunes. Do you choose 'em or do they come down from corporate?
Me. It's Snow Patrol.
Nice soundtrack. Pretty solid movie, too. Wannabe BARKS out a LAUGH.
Dude, you're thinking of Snow Do s-- the Cuba Gooding kiddie flick. This is Snow Patrol, the band. Rick shrugs, a little embarrassed.
Thanks for the tip. As Leigh grabs a cup and goes to make the coffee, Wannabe SAYS SOMETHING to her that WE CAN'T HEAR and they both LAUGH. A PHONE RINGS in the employee room. Leigh hands Wannabe the coffee, then runs back to answer it. Wannabe hands Rick the iced coffee and winks at him.
Enjoy your two-Splenda'd iced coffee, mister. Rick starts to go, then turns around and stares at Wannabe. Wannabe, comforted by the counter between them, smiles back.
Why are you smiling? You think this counter is some alligator-infested moat? Rick's stare becomes a glare and Wannabe loses his smile.
This little 'I'm-on-the-inside, too- cool-for-school, let's-laugh-at-the-
routine's gonna get you hurt. After you lose all of your family's money on your avante garde piece of crap short film, you're going to need a job. And it's guys like me that hire. And guys like me don't hire punks like you. So shape up. As Rick turns and walks out, we PAN over to see that Leigh
I work-out there.
You do? Leigh nods and starts to straighten up the tables.
I work-out at home, but I was thinking of going public with my work-outs. What do you squat? She seems amused by this.
I don't really squat, just run on the hamster-wheel everyday after work. She starts wiping down a table.
So did you go to Harvard? She nods at Rick's t-shirt.
Yeah.
Great place. Real chill. And they have a bar, so I always grab a beer after my workout.
Bitchin'. Sounds like a nice routine. Maybe I'll routine it, too.
If you join, tell 'em Leigh sent you--they'll give me two free months.
I'll do that, Leigh.
Rockin'. Leigh gives him the peace sign.
R-O-C-K in the U-S-A. Leigh smiles and as she heads back inside, we
Hi, this is Missy. Sorry I missed your call. I'm out of town for a few days, and I may have limited cell reception. Please leave a message and I'll get back to you as soon as I can. BEEP. Fred mouths the word 'shit', then picks up the receiver.
Hey, Missy, this is Fred Searing. I . uh, I dust wanted to give you a ring and, um...well, give me a call when you get back. It's kind of an emergency. Well, not life- threatening, but-- The machine CUTS HIM OFF. Fred HANGS UP, dejected. He sits there for a BEAT, then grabs his keys and GOES OUT THE DOOR.
Oh, hi. Kimmy nods blankly. The Daughter glares at him. Fred nervously steps up next to them in line, passing time as he waits for the sidewalk to clear.
Um, I don't think I got a chance to tell you how impressed I was with your new place. Absolutely elegant.
That's right...  Well, gotta get going--I have a meeting across town in ten minutes. See ya. Fred EXITS.
I'd prefer no paper trail.
I don't think my insurance company's gonna cover this one.
Uh, no.
Look, I don't really want this in print. The Young Korean Woman hands him back the form.
Um, couldn't I just tell you? She stares at him for a LONG BEAT.
How about a C-note so I don't have to fill out any forms or show any I.D.'s? The Young Korean Woman thinks about this for a moment, then SLIDES OPEN THE ACCORDION WALL behind her, REVEALING... THE DRY CLEANERS NEXT DOOR - the Dry Cleaning Korean Lady looks back at him, along with Kimmy Long, her daughter, and
.Night fever, night fever.. .we know how to do it...' As the song heats up, the crowd parts, REVEALING... Rick Coleman and Gerry decked-out in WHITE, TONY-MANARO-SUITS. They're DANCING UP A STORM with Maggie and Grace who are thrilled to be in such capable hands. Grace is getting tossed around a bit, but it's clear that Maggie can hold her own on a dance floor.
Wow. You can really move out there. Maggie shrugs modestly.
Thanks. I was a dance major in college.
Really? I always wondered--what do you do with a degree in dance?
Well, as it turned out, nothing.
Anyway, that was fun. I haven't danced this much in a long time.
Why not?
I don't know, you get busy, kids, school, there's so much going on.
Well you gotta make time for the stuff you love or you'll forget who you are. Maggie appreciates the sentiment. She makes strong eye- contact with Rick for a moment, but catches herself and looks away.
You know, my husband's name is Rick. Rick smiles at this.
Well that makes me the perfect guy to have an affair with--you'd never have to worry about screaming out the wrong name during sex. Maggie smiles at this, but she seems a nick uncomfortable.
I'm kidding.
I know.
Now come on, let's go find Grace and get something to eat. I'm starving. As they head back to the party, we
Hey, Rick.
Great. What's up with you? How's that hall pass thing going? Rick makes a Scooby Doo sound, alarmed.
Who told you about that--was it Hog- head?
No. Some old lady was yakking about it down at the post office. Rick REACTS to this.
I don't know where you're getting your information, Flats, but a hall pass isn't just about getting laid, it's about getting a week off from marriage to do as you please-- whether that be fishing, or watching TV, whatever it is that relaxes you.
Uh, Flatsy, I gotta run. I'm late for my work-out appointment. When Rick hops out of his car, we see that he's wearing gym shorts and an old Springsteen t-shirt. He hesitates, then grabs a SWEATSHIRT out of the car and TIES IT AROUND HIS WAIST. Rick hurries down the sidewalk toward Leigh.
Hey, girl!
Hey, Rick! Good luck with the fishing! As Flats begins to LAUGH, a sheepish Rick scurries into the building.
Clyde, this is my friend, uh...
Rick.
He's looking to join.
Great. I'll get you signed up. Leigh pats Rick's hand.
See ya.
So, uh, are you gonna grab a brewski after your work-out?
Nah. Rick looks disappointed.
I'm gonna grab two. Leigh flashes him a smile and as she walks away, she gives him the peace sign. He returns it.
Peace it! As soon as he hears himself, Rick cringes.
CLOSE ON RICK'S FACE - he's wearing the headphones and has worked up a PRETTY GOOD SWEAT. PULL BACK to reveal that he's SITTING ON THE TOILET.
What's that about--you swimming the English Channel? The Metrosexual shoots Rick an annoyed look.
Nah, Just not into looking like the knuckle-dragging guy on the evolution-of-man chart. Off Rick looking self-consciously down at his fur-covered body, we go...
Oh...yes. He bunches up his towel and puts it behind his head, then settles in and CLOSES HIS EYES.
Help ...me... Just as Rick starts to go under, the two young naked metrosexuals hear his MOANS and come to his rescue. They jump in the hot tub and heave him ashore. As Rick GASPS for air, one of the metrosexuals kneels down and lifts Rick's head onto his NAKED LAP.
What time is it?
About three hours. That's when Rick realizes that his head is RESTING ON THE GUY'S COCK. He tries to roll off him, but Metrosexual #1
I'm okay, just help me up.
Okay, thanks, guys. I can take it from here. The metrosexuals release Rick and he gets about two steps before his LEGS GIVE OUT and he TUMBLES DOWN A SMALL FLIGHT
We let down the male species.
All right, don't give up.
I'm not giving up, I'm facing facts- -this is our last day and we got nothing cooking. Maybe you were right. Maybe we should just tell the girls to come home.
No. I want the hall pass. Fred looks at Rick, surprised.
At first I wasn't sure, but now I want the dream.
I'm not even sure I know what the dream is anymore.
I just...I just want to know what it's like to be with another woman.
Well, just pull up one of the golden oldies in your spank bank-- it's almost like being there.
I don't have anything in that spank bank.
I'm talking about all the girls before you met Maggie. Rick doesn't say anything.
What?
Wait a second, are you saying...?
First class, first day, freshman year, I saw Maggie--she was sitting three seats away in Western Civ-- and I fell in love instantly. I begged her for three months to go out with me, she finally caved, and that night I told her I loved her.
Eighty-four days later she told me she loved me back and we've been together ever since. Fred stares at him.
Wow. That's a really creepy story. Just then Fred's cell phone RINGS and he ANSWERS it.
Hello.
Who was that?
Just an angel from heaven. Suddenly Fred jumps to his feet.
Coakley's back in town! As Rick's face fills with renewed hope, we...
Does this mean you're going steady?
Grace, you should be flattered. You're thirty-eight-years-old and college kids are still swooning over you.
Well I just feel bad if I gave him the wrong impression.
The wrong impression? What makes you think that--I mean, besides the flowers, I.D. bracelet, and love letter? Maggie picks up a card.
Thanks for piling on. Grace stands up and SIGHS.
Well...I can't accept this. I guess I'm just gonna have to go set him straight.
What are you doing?
Just texting Missy Frankenfield that we're going to be at Enter the Dragon--I'm covering all my bases.
You don't need Missy Frankenfield tonight. If we can't get the job done with Coakley as our wingman, then we're pathetic. Just then, Fred NOTICES something O.S.
All right, here come da man! CLOSE ON RESTAURANT ENTRANCE - a suave, DEBONAIR MAN (played by George Clooney) comes through the doors and stops to check out the room. Rick and Fred jump up and approach him WITH OPEN ARMS but at the last second Clooney steps aside REVEALING a THIN, BALDING MAN dressed HEAD-TO-TOE IN MOTORCYCLE LEATHERS (think Larry David.)
My two favorite nutsuckers--how the hell are ya?! The three men hug, then Coakley nods toward Clooney.
See who just walke ( in here in front of me?
No, who?
George Clooney.
What's he doing here?
I don't know--must be shooting a movie or something.
Huh. Look, man, we've got a situation on our hands.
Yeah, yeah, Baker filled me in. S'been rough sledding, huh? Coakley puts his arms around the two guys.
Well, don't worry, my little snickerdicks...Coakley's here.
I'm gonna need three-hundred bucks.
For what? Coakley shoots him a look.
If you're really serious about this, stop questioning me. The guys look at each other, then reluctantly COUGH UP THE DOUGH. With money in hand, Coakley marches confidently across the street followed by Fred and Rick. When the SLICK BOUNCER sees them approaching, he PARTS THE CROWD.
Good evening, Mr. Coakley.
What up, my guy? Coakley PASSES ON THE MONEY with a handshake and the Bouncer UNHOOKS THE VELVET ROPE. Then Coakley smiles back at Fred and Rick.
Push the defrost button on the microwave, boys. The deep freeze is over.
Okay, guys, you tried it your way and you railed miserably. You struck out, you were oh-for- everything. So now we do it my way, which is... The guys look at Coakley like Richard Gere looks at the Dalai Lama.
. Go ugly early. Rick and Fred are visibly deflated.
Guys, you're not trying to get married here--you're trying to get laid.
Aren't you the guy who goes to the Hawaiian Tropic finals every year? Is that for the ugly girls?
I go to the Tropic finals because Miss North Dakota's gonna lose and she's gonna need a hug. And quite often you can parlay a hug into a hand-job. Rick, you're up--get us two bottles of Moet and six glasses. Rick shoots Fred a look, then weaves his way through a scrum of PEOPLE up to the bar. He tries to flag down a bartender but can't get anyone's attention.
Hi, Mr. Mills. Rick turns to see that he's crammed in beside his babysitter Paige who's looking a LITTLE TIPSY.
Oh, hey, Paige. What are you doing here? She pulls out her license and holds it up.
I turned twenty-one yesterday.
Oh. Well, happy birthday. You out celebrating?
Yeah, I'm here with my Aunt Meg. Paige points across the club to AUNT MEG, a striking redhead, early 40's, who's talking to a couple of YOUNG MEN.
She's the best. Forty-two years old but she still parties like she's my age.
Nice. Rick continues to try to get the bartender's attention.
So, Rick, how's the hall pass going? Paige smirks at Rick who shrinks a little.
You don't mind if I call you Rick, do you? I am officially an adult now.
No, of course not--what did you just say?
I was asking about your hall pass.  I baby-sit for the Putneys and I heard Gary talking about it the other night at their barbecue. Rick REACTS to this.
He was talking about it at a barbecue?!
Oh, he wasn't saying it in a bad way.
In fact, I thought it was very classy of you to be staying at the Holiday Inn Express instead of bringing girls back to your home with all the kids' pictures and schoolwork taped up everywhere. Rick forces a smile.
Thank you. A male BARTENDER, 25, finally appears in front of Rick.
Yeah, um, two bottles of Moet and six glasses please. Paige eyes Rick as she sips her drink.
So does it work both ways?
What?
The hall pass. Does your wife get one, too.
Oh. Who made that rule?
Well ...um... As Rick thinks about this, Paige moves in tighter.
By the way, I kind of owe you an apology. (lowers her voice,
Last week ful) when you drove me home, I shouldn't have snapped at you like that.
Oh, don't worry about it. It was a big misunderstanding.
No, it wasn't. She takes a moment, looks around.
If you thought I was coming on to you that night, it's because...I was. Rick flinches at this. Just then the Bartender returns with the champagne. Rick fumbles through his pocket and finally pays. Then he's left alone with Paige and her coed-in-love- with-the-professor eyes and her suddenly heaving cleavage.
Yeah. Um...I have to go, Paige, but it was great seeing you. Paige grabs Rick's arm as he tries to go. She looks suddenly annoyed.
Are you serious? You're doing this again... even with a hall pass?
Paige, you're my kids' babysitter. Have a happy birthday. As Rick walks away, we go BACK ON COAKLEY AND FRED as Rick arrives with the champagne.
Here we go, bubbles doth floweth.
Holy crap... look who's here. The guys turn to see the coffee girl, Leigh, walking past with two of her GIRLFRIENDS. She sees them and LIGHTS UP.
Hey, Rick! What happened yesterday-- I thought we were gonna grab a beer? Fred looks at Rick, confused.
Nah, I've never been here, but a friend of mine's DJ-ing tonight so I promised him I'd come. Just then Wannabe from the coffee shop swoo s in and gives Leigh a kiss on the cheek. He has a pair of headphones hanging around his neck.
Wassup, girl?
Oh. Hey. What are you doing here-- you auditing the place?
Actually, I work for Sirius XM Radio--we're looking to hire some new deejays so I'm checking out all the clubs. Wannabe stiffens, suddenly respectful.
Oh. Cool. Are you serious?
Not! Leigh is amused by this, but she tries to hide it from the deflated Wannabe.
What gym do you belong to and where the hell was I?
Well, according to Kimmy Long, you were at the massage parlor trying to get a rub-and-tug without filling out the paperwork. This takes the wind out of Fred's sails.
What? Coakley CHUCKLES and Rick glares at Fred.
I thought the massage parlor was admitting defeat?
I had a knot in my neck--why the hell didn't you tell me you saw Coffee Girl?!
Okay, guys, cut the crap. We're all here for the same thing. And I'll give you a hint what that thing is: It begins with a 'P' and ends with an 'ussy.' Coakley puts his arm around Fred.
Now relax, Fredd , everyone's gonna get taken care ot.  We Just gotta find you a gazelle with a bad wheel.
Huh? Coakley spots something.
Ooh--there's a couple of trainwrecks. Let's go.
Ladies, this is my friend Fred Pinkberry--his yogurt company just went public and he's out celebrating. He'd like to offer you a flute of champagne. The Chubby Blondes PERK UP.
So.. .having a good time?
Chillin'.
Me too. Just chillin' and wigglin'. LONG BEAT as they dance. Then:
I haven't been ancing in a long time.
Oh yeah? Just try to keep up. She smiles at this, then Coakley DANCES UP BESIDE RICK and
Abort! Abort! You stand not a chance.
No, no, I think we're starting to gel. Coakley rolls his eyes.
No, no, you're mistaken. Look, dude, this ain't Operation Cock- block here--now trust me, retreat. Rick glances back at Leigh, torn. She looks fantastic.
Coak, I'm never gonna have another hall pass, so this memory has to last a lifetime. . .you know what I mean? Coakley looks at Leigh and SIGHS.
All right, I'll be at the bar when this thing blows up in your face. As Rick dances back over to Leigh, we... PAN ACROSS THE ROOM to the PISSED-OFF Wannabe watching them from the deejay booth.
Is this guy your boyfriend or something?
No, no, no. She waves it off, then shrugs guiltily.
One time we messed around a little.
And what does 'messed around a little' mean these days?
Anal. Rick tries hard to act nonchalant.
I'm kidding. He kissed me one night and I kissed back--I shouldn't have.
Seriously, you grandpappies better get off the floor before someone falls and breaks a hip! Rick points at Wannabe.
 Hola, Maggie, this is Isabel. I went to clean the house today but nobody has been there or slept in any of the beds this week, so I just cleaned the windows and left early. I hope you don't mind. CLOSE ON a concerned-looking Maggie. She moves to the window, stares at the lights on the ocean.
Hey. Maggie turns to see Rick Coleman standing out on her front porch.
Oh. Hey. She goes to the screen door.
Thought you might want to help me celebrate the end of the season. He holds up a grocery bag.
I got some good late-night eats. Maggie hesitates a moment. Then she opens the door and lets him in.
There you are! Fred looks up to see Missy Frankenfield approaching.
Oh my god! You're here! Fred jumps off the bed and gives Missy a hug.
Franken-berry, how the heck are ya?! She returns the embrace, but not quite as tight.
You look incredible!
Never felt better. Missy nods.
I have to say, I can't believe I'm actually here--I was on my way home from dinner when I noticed your text. So what's this big emergency?
Huh? Oh, uh, yeah. By 'emergency' I just meant that there's some important stuff I want to talk to you about. You know, one on one, me and you--without all the husbands and wives and hoopla. So how are you?
I'm... good.
No, I mean how-are-you. Inside. What's happenin' in there? There must be all sorts of emotions churning up with the divorce and everything. She gives him a long look.
Maybe we should go somewhere else-- this doesn't seem like the best place to spill one's guts. Just then, Coakley swoops in and pulls Fred aside.
But...I know her. She said she wants to leave with me.
Then she's insane--run for the hills.
Coak, the woman's going through a divorce. She's not insane, she's just making really poor decisions right now.  Here, give Rick the keys to my mini- van. I'm gonna go back to the hotel with Missy. Coakley looks back at Missy and softens.
It's your funeral, princess. BACK ON RICK AND LEIGH dancing up a storm. Rick is OUT OF BREATH and SWEATING LIKE A PIG. His shirt is soaked and his hair is dripping wet.
Are you okay--you keep checking your pulse?
Nah, I'm fine. I had a little chest cramp during the last song, but I worked through it. She smiles at this.
Come on, let's sit this one out. I need a breather. They move to the bar and Rick starts DRYING HIMSELF with a stack of cocktail napkins.
So what's up with the ring? He looks at his finger, then back at her.
Um...have you ever heard of a hall pass?
There she is! Come on in, I'm mixing up some margaronis. We lost our final game, but I got four hits!
Oh. Great. Uh, where is everyone?
They all went out to party--now get in here! But Grace stays on the porch.
Gerry, I'm sorry but I can't stay.
What? Grace hasn't been in this situation in a long time and it shows. Gerry steps out onto the porch looking concerned.
Is everything okay?
Yeah, yeah, everything's fine, but...  .I can't accept this.
Why not? Grace does a double-take.
Gerry, I'm a married woman. Gerry nods at this, maybe a little hurt. She hands him the box and he reluctantly accepts it.
Um... I'm sorry if I made you uncomfortable, Grace. It's just that...I really like you.
I like you, too, Gerry, and you didn't make me uncomfortable. She smiles at him and he forces a smile back, and there's some serious eye-contact, and then BAM! They DIVE AT EACH OTHER and start SUCKING FACE LIKE THERE'S NO TOMORROW. As they continue to MAUL EACH OTHER, they STUMBLE INTO THE HOUSE, and we
So...you're married?
I wasn't deliberately hiding it. He holds up his ring hand.
Yeah, I just thought your wife had died or something and you were wearing it out of respect.
Come on, you're not gonna close the sale here--let's move this clambake back to my place.
Okay, but what am I gonna do there?
What do you mean, what are you gonna do? I've got a house with bedrooms--do the math. When it doesn't work out with her--which it won't--there's going to be a bunch of other back-up chicks there. Rick nods then turns to Leigh.
My buddy's inviting everybody back to his crib.
Sounds cool. As they walk toward the exit, we
I've got to be honest, Fred... I'm not really sure what we're doing here.
What do you mean? We're hangin', we're connecting--that's what friends do. Especially if they want to take it to the next level where they can call each other 'good friends.'
You're married, Fred.
Ah, blah, blah, blah, blah. Fred opens the door but Missy stays in the hall.
What does blah-blah mean? You are still married, right?
Happily. Look, I don't want to get into all the details, but my wife gave me this one-time deal where I get to be with another woman. He opens the door wide. She looks at him for a BEAT.
I thought we were going to the hotel bar?
We are. There's a mini-bar in my room. You better hurry up, it's last call. Fred smiles.
Are you out of your flippin' mind? Fred loses the smile.
Um...
Are you out of your mind?!
I'm going to be honest with you-- your tone right now is scaring me.
You call me up for the first time in your life, claim you have some kind of emergency, and it turns out that you just want to screw me?!
Or not.
Well, screw you, Fred! She starts walking down the hallway. Fred nods, unfazed.
Nail on the head! She turns and glares at him.
What?
What you just said--I had that coming. Big time. Fred hangs his head.
Anyway ease forgive me. I really am very, very sorry and ashamed. Missy, standing a few feet away, finally calms down.
Okay. Whatever.
Thank you.
So ... . you want to come in for that drink? He arches an eyebrow.
Fuck you, Fred! Missy STORMS away.
Hi. May I help you? REVERSE ANGLE REVEALS Paige's Aunt Meg. She's wearing a skirt and low-cut tank top and has cougar written all over her.
Rick, my name's Meg. I'm your babysitter Paige's aunt, and I just wanted to come over here and tell you this: They don't make men like you anymore. She smiles.
Oh. Well, thank you.
Everything okay?
Yeah. Yeah. It's just ...no, everything's not okay.
What? He moves close to her and she grows uncomfortable.
Look, you're a great cguy, Gerry, and you're very charming and very sweet and the last thing I wanted to do was hurt your feelings, but...well, what,just happened can never happen again. Gerry looks confused.
Oh.
I know it's probably hard for you to understand but...I love my husband.
So? What does that have to do with anything? Fate threw us together and we went with it--isn't that what life's all about?
Not always.
I know that.
You do?
Right.
I don't mean that in a bad way. I'm just saying, I didn't think we were going to start dating, you know? Could you imagine the looks we'd get? It'd be like Hugh Hefner and his girlfriends--except in reverse. Gerry CHUCKLES.
You'd be Hugh Hefner.
Yeah, I got that part. Gerry looks at his watch.
Ooh, I gotta get going. We have kind of a team meeting in like twenty minutes. Gerry sees Grace glance at the clock: 12:15 A.M.
It's, uh, kind o a tradition that we always get together on the night of the last game. It would probably be uncool if I missed it.
You don't have to explain.
Seriously, though, thanks for everything--that was awesome. He holds up his hand and she diligently HIGH-FIVES HIM. Then Gerry WALKS OUT THE DOOR. Grace sits there alone for a moment. We PUSH IN ON HER and we hear Gerry's CAR START OUTSIDE, and when Grace STARTS TO CRY, we
I guess I still have a lot to get out of my system before I do the marriage trip. I'm one of those people who wants to try everything once before I die.
No.
Neither have I. Rick winces, but Leigh smiles at him. It's the moment of truth.
I'd like to help you take being with a married guy off your list of things to do before you die.
You would?
Yes. Leigh gets close.
I don't want to be a home-wrecker.
I've got a one-time pass, remember?
That wasn't just a line?
No. It's for real. Leigh seems intrigued. She moves closer still, takes his hand.
So where can we go to talk some more about this?
Leigh! Rick and Leigh look over to see an AGITATED Wannabe forcing his way through the crowd.
Where have you...? Why didn't you...? You knew this was my big night! How could you just--?  Look, can I please talk to you in private? Now. Leigh looks apologetically at Rick.
Can you give me a second?
Sure. Wannabe and Leigh walk a few feet away and Rick watches them have an ANIMATED CONVERSATION. It appears Wannabe may even be crying. Finally, Wannabe storms across the room but when he gets to the door, he looks back at Leigh.
Well? Are you coming? Leigh SIGHS, then approaches Rick.
I'm sorry, Rick. I have to go deal with this. Rick can't believe what's happening.
Really? Now? I thought you said he wasn't your boyfriend.
He's not...but he is a friend. Leigh glances at the broken-down Wannabe standing there at the door, then turns back to Rick.
I'm sorry. Before Rick can stop her, Leigh LEAVES THE PARTY with Wannabe. After a LONG BEAT, Rick slides down into a chair,
.And he hasn't even spent one night in his own bed this week.
Let me get this straight--you gave him his freedom and now you're mad that he's acting free? This logic clearly stings Maggie.
Hey, I'm sure there's an explanation. Maybe he took a trip somewhere?
I called his assistant--he's been in the office almost everyday.
Look, Maggie, for all you know your husband's been working at a sou kitchen, sleeping in his car al week, and he's only gotten laid two or three times at most. She looks up and forces a smile.
Ha-ha. Maggie checks her watch.
Jeez, I wonder what's taking Grace so long?
Well, if she went over to break the kid's heart, the least she could do is lend a sympathetic ear. He flips a pancake onto a plate.
Prepare yourself for heaven. She reaches for the plate, but he slaps her hand away.
Not so fast, lady. I'm not finished. You have not lived until you've had my steaming hot blueberry pancakes... He pulls a carton of vanilla ice cream out of a bag.
.A la mode. Maggie smiles.
Oh My-lanta.
And to wash it all down... Rick reaches into the bag and pulls out a DESSERT WINE. Off Maggie's smile, we
Hey. . .what are you guys doing here?
We're here for the hall pass.
Really? I thought you guys had given up on us?
We did. We're here with them. He nods toward RICK LEARY and WILLY BOSHANE, both early 40's and paunchy.
What are you talking about?
When Leary and Boshane heard about your guy's hall pass, they convinced their wives to give them one, too. A smiling Leary tries to HIGH-FIVE Rick, but he's having none of it. He turns to Baker, livid.
You weren't supposed to tell anyone about the hall pass!
They didn't say anything. Our wives heard about it at the pool.
No! At the pool?! Rick rubs his face, distressed.
Yep. And then about three days ago-- after some hard-core negotiating-- we managed to push the bill through. The guys LAUGH. Rick can hardly believe what he's spawned.
Really? So...how's it going?
Solid. Very solid.
We're building mucho momentumo. Baker makes a JERK-OFF MOTION.
That's right. It's about going bowling and, uh, staying up late, and being able to do what you want to do when you want to do it.
Haven't gotten laid yet, huh?
Hey, dudes, there's like ten very bangable chicks out on the back deck--let's go! Leary HOLDS UP HIS BEER.
To freedom! The guys TAP their beer cups, then EXIT toward the back deck. A dejected and defeated Rick watches them go, then turns and pushes his way through the crowd to the front door. As he OPENS THE DOOR to leave, he finds himself FACE-TO-FACE WITH
Hey, where are you going?
What are you doing...? I thought you'd left.
No. I told you, I just had to talk him off the ledge. I calmed him down and sent him on his way.
Oh. Uh, great.
So where's that game room? I thought we were gonna play some games. She smiles and takes his hand and as they walk away, we go...
I'll be right back--I just have to use the bathroom. Rick nods, then watches as Leigh walks off and disappears into the bathroom. He takes a DEEP BREATH. This is it. Just then he hears O.S. LAUGHTER. Rick heads down the hallway and pushes open a door.
Hey. REVERSE ANGLE reveals Coakley SITTING ALL ALONE in a small study off the hall. He has a bowl of Cap'n Crunch on his lap and is watching a re-run of The Andy Griffith Show.
Hey. How come you're not downstairs partying? Coakley gives him a sad, worn-out smile.
All partied out, pal. Rick nods, understanding. Coakley LAUGHS once again at the
Man, that Barney Fife still kills me. He looks back to Rick.
Hey, I was thinking about this hall- pass business. It's really ironic, isn't it? Rick glances down the hall to see if Leigh has returned.
How's that?
Well think about it. There's two kinds of guys who cheat on their wives: The guy who does it behind her back, and a guy like you who has his wife's permission.
Well it's not really cheating if I have permission.
Yeah, whatever. The point is, if you asked a hundred people who the better CJuy is, ninety-nine of 'em would pick you, because you're being honest--there's no deceit involved. Rick is growing uncomfortable.
But the funny thing is, the other guy, the cheater, the bad guy, he has to live with all that guilt and anxiety, while his wife's running around happy as a clam because she doesn't know anything. And you, the good guy, you've got no guilt at all because you just laid it all on your wife's shoulders.
Well I didn't really think of it
It's like she's your guilt Sherpa! Coakley CHUCKLES and Rick deflates.
Funny, huh?
And that, my friend, is why you are a genius. As Rick lets this all sink in, we
Cheers. They CLINK glasses.
Rick, I hope you don't mind me tracking you down--Paige told me where you were staying.
Please. Not at all.
You've been very sweet to her. Fred waves her off.
Hey, she's a good kid. I do what I can for the kids. Aunt Meg moves in a little closer, squints at him sweetly.
She told me everything. And I have to say, I was very impressed.
Hm?
I know she tried to hook-up with you--twice in fact--and that you set her straight both times. Fred hadn't heard this from Rick and is a little confused.
Uh...hook-up?
Well... she's a kid and kids get crushes. I remember in tenth grade I had the biggest crush on my French teacher--thank God Mr. LeClaire was professional enough to only date seniors. Meg GIGGLES.
I'm serious, it takes a certain kind of guy to say no to a beautiful young girl like that-- especially since you have your wi e's permission now. Meg shoots him a knowing smile and puts her glass down.
I like that, Rick. You have morals. She leans in and KISSES HIS NECK. Fred glances down at her breasts.
Hey, all you have in this world is your word. As Aunt Meg CLIMBS ON TOP OF FRED, we
Leigh, I gotta split.
What?
Really? Are you feeling okay? You're not mad because I went outside with my friend, are you?
No, no, no. Look, I shouldn't be doing this. I have.. .you know, commitments. Leigh nods at this, then unties a shoulder strap and her DRESS FALLS TO THE FLOOR. Suddenly she's NAKED before him and she's PERFECT.
Relax. Don't think so much. You're gonna have your wife for the rest of your life, but tonight. . .you have me. Leigh smiles. And it's the kind of smile you only get two or three times in your life, if you're lucky, and probably never from a woman this beautiful. She reaches down and UNBUCKLES HIS PANTS, then she PULLS OFF HIS SHIRT. They stand face-to-face now, the middle-aged guy and the young beauty, and it's happening exactly the way Rick had hoped it would, the dream. She presses her body against his and STARTS TO KISS HIS NECK, her hand DISAPPEARING SOMEWHERE BELOW HIS WAIST. Then she leans her head AGAINST HIS CHEST. As he looks down at her, we PUSH IN on a suddenly conflicted Rick.
Nope. I can't do this. He reaches for his shirt.
What are you doing?
I'm sorry. She stares at him, confused, as he buckles his pants.
Your wife didn't give you a hallway permission slip, did she?
Yes, she did, but... look, you're insanely beautiful and pathologically sexy and every cell in my body is telling me to dust do this, but-- Rick points to his chest.
See this area, this spot right here? The first time Maggie and I slept together, back in college, she fell asleep right here. And she left a puddle of drool. And it didn't bother me. It actually felt good. That's when I knew I was going to marry her.
Well, I think you have a screw loose and you're probably going to regret this for the rest of your life, but. . .right on, man.
Um...do you want me to give you a ride home?
No. It's only one-thirty--I'm going back down to the party. Rick raises two fingers.
Peace it.
R-O-C-K in the U-S-A. As they smile at each other one last time, we
Hello.
Oh, uh, no, I'm sorry, he's not here right now. I'm using his car.
I'm attracted to men with integrity.
Thanks--wow, you got great jugs. Meg takes Fred's hand and leads him toward the bed (with his pants still at his ankles), Fred WADDLING LIKE A PENGUIN.
Moral-guy's a tit-man, huh?
Oh yes! Rick... please...I want you to make love to me. Just then Rick BURSTS INTO THE ROOM, out of breath. Fred and Meg come up from under the covers. (Fred is at waist-level on her.)
Fred, I need to talk to you! Meg GLARES down at Fred, confused.
Fred? I thought you were Rick?!
I'm Rick. Fred cowers guiltily.
Please don't judge me. As Aunt Meg KARATE KICKS Fred in the face, we
What did they tell you? Is Grace gonna be okay?
All I know is she was in a car accident and they rushed her to the hospital.
Oh my God... Suddenly they hear O.S. GLASS SHATTERING. They look up and
THEIR POV - From fifty yards across the parking lot, they can see that Fred's mini-van's windshield has just been BASHED IN by the BAT-WIELDING Wannabe. On the side of the vehicle is spray-painted: HORNY OLD MAN.
Whoa!!! What the hell...?! Wannabe turns to them, a CRAZED LOOK on his face.
How do you like me now, Splenda- boy?
You moron, that's Lny car! His is the one next to it! Wannabe looks over at Rick's Avalon, PULLS OUT A KNIFE, and quickly SLASHES TWO OF RICK'S TIRES. As Rick and Fred RUN TOWARD HIM, Wannabe JUMPS INTO AN OLD BRONCO and PEELS OUT OF
Nice job, Fred.
Oh come on! How can a hospital not have a live operator?!
It's four in the morning, Fred. Fred hangs up and pounds his steering wheel.
What was I thinking?! I had a great wife--a beautiful wife--and now I may lose her.. .because of you.
What are you talking about?! You said our wives were living their dreams, with their fancy gas ovens, and that our dream was the hall pass! How can you blame this on me?!
I'd never even heard of a hall pass until you flaunted yours in my face! 'Hey, look at me, I've got a hall pass--everyone should have a hall pass!' You ruined my life, Mills!
This is a great place.
Yeah, my family's had it since I was a kid. We used to come for a week a summer, then two weeks, then a month, then by the time I got to high school we were living here all summer long.
Something's wrong here, Maggie.
Hm?
Something's wrong with a guy who would leave a woman like you alone for this long.
So what? If you were my girl, I wouldn't have taken it. An awkward moment. Rick touches her hand and Maggie looks away.
You deserve way better.
Uh, in Rick's defense, he didn't really even want the hall pass. I kind of forced it on him.
Why would you do that? Maggie thinks about this.
I don't know.
Oh my God...
What?
This hall pass ...it wasn't for him.
Did you see that? He didn't have a windshield. Cop #2 throws the car into drive and they pull a U-ey and
I'm sorry, man, I shouldn't have blamed you for this. I'm the one who dragged you into this thing.
No, you didn't. I went willingly.
I've been bad, Rick. I've been real bad.
We've both been bad.
I've been worse. I kissed your babysitter's aunt.
That's not so bad.
On the vagina.
Ooh. They hear a SIREN and Rick looks back to see the cops on their tail.
Oh shit.
Pull over, man!
No way, I can out-run 'em!
No you can't--not in this thing!
Oh God, now there's two of 'em!
I don't care--I'm not stopping 'til we get there!
Are you crazy?!
Yeah, I'm crazy! I'm crazy about my wife!
We're on! The officers spring from their cars and quickly TACKLE Fred as he runs toward the front doors. Rick climbs out of the passenger seat with HIS HANDS RAISED.
Hear me out, gentlemen, I can explain everything! A BURLY OFFICER from the back-up car form-tackles Rick, BLASTING him backwards onto the sidewalk. Fred and Rick manage to roll away and then CRAWL THROUGH THE
Grace needs me! Cop #1 PINS FRED'S HEAD TO THE FLOOR as Cop #2 lays across his legs.
Okay, just take it easy, buddy.
No, I won't take it easy! Look, I'm sorry I was speeding and I shouldn't have run from you guys, but my wife's been in an accident and she's in this emergency room and I gotta see how she is because...
Are you the husband of...  .Grace Searing? Fred strains to look up.
Yes! Is she okay?! The Doctor hesitates and the cops look at each other and then the Burly Officer releases Rick from his head-lock.
All right, let him up. The young officers get off Fred and help him up. Fred rushes to the Doctor, who seems very serious.
Please tell me she's gonna be okay.
She is. Your wife broke her nose and she got shaken up a bit, but all in all she's a very lucky woman.
You got that wrong, doc. I'm the lucky one. Fred is visibly relieved as the doctor smiles and walks off.
You take care of that woman, buddy, and I'm gonna go home and take care of mine. Fred nods, emotional, as the cops look at each other, unmoved. Rick starts to walk away.
Rick... Rick stops and turns at the door.
You go love that lady! The Burly Officer rolls his eyes and steps up to Rick.
Uh, before you 'go love that lady', we're going to have to write you guys up. As the officer pulls out his CITATION PAD, we
Oh my god...oh my god...oh my and... ON RICK - he looks concerned as he approaches the bedroom door.
I know. She's okay. Maggie goes back to the phone.
My God, she scared ( me to death.
March twenty-fifth, 1988.
What?
The day I lost my virginity. March 25th, 1988 at approximately ten- thirty in the evening. Maggie thinks about this.
What are you talking about? We were dating then. Rick nods. She looks at him, not sure if she understands.
You were my first. And you were my last. And you were everything in between. As it all sinks in, Maggie STARTS TO WELL UP.
Really?
Really.
So...is that why you were crying that first night? Rick shrugs, embarrassed.
And I was...I was your last?
You are my only. Forever.
Law & Order MUSIC CUE as we SUPER:
.And what were you doing driving around at one o'clock in the morning?
I'm sorry, Grace.
For what?
For putting you through all this. Grace looks awash in guilt.
It's not your fault, Fred.
Yes, it is--of course it's my fault. This isn't you--driving around all night, thinking--you're not a thinker. When she looks up at him, he forces a smile. But she doesn't smile back.
Look, Fred, we have to talk about... about what happened this week. Fred takes a DEEP BREATH and looks around, trying to avoid the moment.
Grace. . .do we really have to do this? Grace lowers her head guiltily.
Yeah. Yeah, we do. When she looks back up, she NOTICES the SPRAY-PAINTED and
Horny old man?
Look, all you gotta know is that whatever happened doesn't matter! I love you and only you! And I'm going to treat you like the queen that you are for the rest of your living days, so help me God! I'll mow the lawn, I'll shovel the snow, I'll wash the stubble off the sink... Grace looks down at him.
.But please, I'm begging you, sweetie... can we please just never talk about what happened this week? Grace's eyes flicker about, hardly believing her luck.
Um...deal. Fred gets up and THROWS HIS ARMS AROUND HIS WIFE.
I love you, Fred. As they embrace, Fred sees Rick come out the front door with his arm around Maggie. Fred shoots Rick a THUMBS-UP. CLOSE ON RICK AND MAGGIE as they smile at Fred and Grace.
Come on, you two! We're gonna go watch the sun come up!
