Any word from Doug? The way he spits out "Doug" tells us all we need to know about how Mr. Turner feels about his future son-in-law.
No, but I'm sure he's-- Just then, Tracy's CELLPHONE rings. She quickly answers it.
Hello?
He's in his late 20's, tall, rugged -- and currently a mess. His shirt is ripped open, his aviator sunglasses are bent, his lip is bloodied, and he clearly hasn't slept in days.
Tracy, it's Vick. Parked on the dirt road behind Vick is his near-totalled 1967 Cadillac Deville convertible; it's scratched, dented, filthy - - and missing its passenger side door. Slouched inside are TWO OTHER GUYS, also looking like hell.
Hey Vick!
Listen, honey...The bachelor party got a little out of control and, well...we lost Doug.
 What?! But we're getting married in like four hours! Vick squints at the rising sun.
Yeah, that's not gonna happen.
Dude this is already the best weekend ever!
Stu, relax, we're still on the 10.
Oh, did I show you pictures of my kids?!
No, dude, show `em. Stu fishes pictures out of his wallet and eagerly shows them to Doug in the front seat. Doug is clearly the core of this group, the glue that holds these childhood friends together.
Haylee is two, and Kaitlin is already four! Can you believe it?!
 How cute... Good for you, man. Doug shows the photos to Vick; he nods, impressed.
The one on the left is gonna be a hottie. The other one, not so much. Stu protectively snatches the photos back, muttering:
Jesus, dude, those are my children--
 Hey, am I rubbed in? Stu glances over and sees un-rubbed-in sunscreen all over Alan's face.
Yeah, you're good.
Hey so Alan, are you and Becky still together? But before Alan can answer--
Of course they are, Doug. Jesus, Alan's been dating Becky for 14 years. When they first met, Alan had braces and soccer hair, and Becky had a functioning hymen.
Asking Alan if he's still with Becky is like asking the sun if it still rises in the east. The guys try not to laugh; Alan scowls.
She still pressuring you to get married?
Enh, we've moved past the pressure stage...it's more like aggravated assault stage now? Like at the last wedding we went to, she threw a camera at my head, called me a closet fag, then ran out crying. The guys wince, oooo.
But we talked, and everything's cool now.
Maybe you could wear a helmet to Doug's wedding.
Great idea, Stu. Thanks.
Oh, great. Yeah, I'm working on bringing the next big dessert craze to Los Angeles. It's gonna be huge.
What is it?
Bavarian custard. We ran the numbers, and it's gonna be bigger than fro yo. Doug and Stu nod, impressed; only Alan looks skeptical.
Isn't custard like a trillion calories--?
Our plan is to open three stores in the Valley and then franchise it. Shares are selling fast, but I can probably squeeze you guys in...
Yeah, man, count me in.
Me too, man! I love pudding! Alan just shakes his head, unbelievable.
Is this gonna do better than the hip-hop label you started, Vick? Or the topless sushi bar? Or the mobile tattoo parlor--?
Tattoo-To-You was an idea ahead of it's time, Alan! And don't come crying to me when there's a Custard Cabana on every street corner in America and you didn't buy in--!
Dude! I can't believe I get to party all night, and then, tomorrow ...I get to sleep in! It's almost too much! And FYI, if anyone gets really drunk and craps themself, just let me know, I can have you cleaned up and partying again in under three minutes. No joke. I am a master of stool removal... They rocket off into the desert, LAUGHING...
Checking in. Lennon comma Victor. The man types into his computer.
Hold it right there, Atashir. This is my best friend from childhood, Douglas Billings. In two days, he is to marry a woman of great beauty and strong teeth, do you understand? A woman of gigantic bosoms who will give him many, many sons... Atashir looks confused. Alan looks embarrassed.
My two other childhood friends have travelled great distances, across many deserts, to be here. This isn't a night in a hotel for us, Atashir: this is a family reunion. Perhaps you too have family situated great distances away, in a foreign country with much sand? Atashir looks like, sort of...? Vick reaches over the counter and touches his arm, simpatico.
Then I have but one question for you, friend: if they came to town, would you put them in an economy suite?
No, sir.
Well, then. I think one of us needs to get back on his little computer and find us a suitable room. Atashir frowns...but types away at his computer.
All the deluxe rooms are taken. The Dean Martin suite is available, but I'd have to ask my--
Dean-o will be fine. Send up a case of Cristal, two bottles of Patron, four ahi sandwiches, and a crate of skinless mangos... Vick turns to the guys:
You guys want anything? The guys stammer, too stunned to speak.
And have Jean-Marie cook up a dozen of those duck skewers I like so well. He knows the ones.
And how would you like to pay?
American Express. Atashir looks up to accept the card. After a beat, Vick turns to Alan:
Dude, give him your AmEx.
What?
Don't worry, we'll hit you later. Alan stammers.
Dude, come on, I paid for gas. Stop being such a Jew. Alan stammers some more -- then angrily pulls out his card.
This is bigger than my house. Vick blows past them, totally unfazed.
Get dressed, ladies. We're wheels up in ten. Stu and Doug race off to find their bedrooms, leaving Alan standing alone, just staring at the decadent suite.
I am so not getting paid back.
This is Vick.
He's in Vegas?! You're kidding me!
I said all right, dude! How many more times you want me to say all right?!
So, you ready for Sunday?
Yeah. I thought I'd be nervous, but I'm actually just really psyched. Alan nods, impressed.
Tracy's dad still hate you?
Oh yeah.
Any closer to figuring out why?
Enh, I think he wanted more for his girl. I mean, I'm a teacher who makes 45 grand a year, and he's a titan of industry who makes 45 grand a day, you know? I sort of get it...  Also, I'm banging his daughter. I'm not sure you ever get past that.
You got floss? Alan gestures towards his toiletries kit. Doug picks it up, starts looking for the floss. Then Alan remembers something -- but it's too late. Doug has found the RING BOX inside Alan's kit, and opened it to reveal a HUGE DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT RING.
Holy Christ! Alan quickly reaches for the ring--
Ahhh yeah, I wasn't going to tell anyone about that-- Just then, Stu wanders in, wearing only his COLORADO STATE BOXER SHORTS. His gut is sizable.
Anyone got any nipple lube--?  Jesus would you look at the size of that thing?! Stu grabs the ring from Doug.
It's Alan's. For Becky.
Jesus, who made this thing? Diddy?
 Actually, I-I was trying to keep it a secret, so-- Just then Vick blows in, singing, effeminate:
Boy Party in the bathrooooom--!  Miner's cut, 2.6 Carats, slight pink tint, street value: 26, 27K. Vick studies it in the light. Alan just rubs his temples.
Dude, it's for Becky! Alan's finally going to propose!
Well gosh-golly, Alan Mervish, good for you! Where'd you get the ring?
Oh, it's a family heirloom. My grandmother smuggled it through the Holocaust, actually. I was going to propose to Beck this weekend. Doug throws his arm around Alan, happy for him.
Well: now we have two things to celebrate!
Thish is so great! I love you guys!
Check it out, Stu's already wasted. Vick starts refilling everyone's glasses.
We've only had two shots, man!
Yeah, what happened, Stuey?! You used to be able to drink us all under the table!
Dude, I'm a dad! I don't have time to get plastered anymore! It blows!
What? No!
Because my dad was a bad dad.
 That's true, Stuey, but you're different. We've talked about this. Stu just stares at the guys, glassy-eyed. Beat.
Have I showed you guys pictures of my kids yet--?
Doug laughs and raises his glass for a toast, heartfelt:
Little toast: to Tracy, the coolest, kindest, most beautiful woman I've ever met. I can't believe she let me come this weekend -- much less agreed to spend the rest of her life with me. I think both will prove to be massive errors of judgement on her part. The guys chuckle, hear-hear.
And to being here, with my best friends in the world. There's nowhere else I'd rather be. The guys raise their glasses, touched.
That said, let's not get too stupid tonight, okay? I'm getting married in 36 hours.
I'm serious, dudes! Nothing above the neck -- no piercings, no weird haircuts, no facial tattoos. I gotta look decent on Sunday.
Jesus, what do you take us for?
Vick: you shaved Alan's eyebrows off the night before graduation!
Oh yeah! That was hilarious! And remember when I blacked out at Homecoming and you wrote on my face with permanent marker?! That was awesome! What'd you write again?
Ahh, good times, man. Good times...
We'll be good tonight, Doug.
Seriously, man, we're your friends.
Yeah, we've totally grown up since then. Doug looks at them, highly dubious, then hoists his glass.
Well then...to a night we'll never forget. They CLINK glasses, shoot their shots, and
Furniture is broken, the minibar ransacked, and the floor is covered with remnants of the night before: empty beer cans, platefuls of room service food, a cowboy hat, the Gideon Bible, half-eaten skinless mangos, a bra, a battle axe, etc. SNORING on the couch, wearing only his jeans and one shoe, the word ASSHOLE written in Sharpie across his chest, is Stu.
Damn, dude, why are you retarded? Both men are ragingly hungover. A long beat as both of them rub their faces, then:
Um, Stuey?
Yo.
Why do you have a mullet? Stu does, in fact, have a mullet haircut. But he's too hungover to understand.
What?
You know, business on top, party down the back? Stu still looks confused. This is excruciating for Vick.
Your hair, dude. You have a mullet. Stu touches his hair. Then he stumbles into the bathroom. After a beat, we hear his voice:
Dude...I have a mullet. Then we hear ALAN'S VOICE in the bathroom, groggy:
Just give me ten more minutes, Beck...
Whoa, did you sleep in the tub? Beat, then Stu pokes his head out of the bathroom.
Check it out: Alan slept in the tub.
Get him up. I'm hungry. Stu disappears back into the bathroom. We hear the SHOWER turn on. Beat. Then we hear Alan slowly awaken:
Wet. Water. Jesus, what's--?! There's a THUD as Alan falls out of tub. Beat. Then Stu and a very confused, very hungover, very wet Alan stumble out of the bathroom. Alan appears to be wearing his polo shirt from the night before. Only, as we PULL BACK, we see that his shirt is cut off at his chest -- he's naked from there down.
Jesus, dude, put away your sack. Alan looks down at his hairy nakedness, totally bewildered.
Yeah, and it might be time for some manscaping, bro. Your bush looks like Yanni. Alan looks back up again, squinting, hungover.
What did we do last night?
Dude, why is my ass killing me...?
We'll...we'll get the next one. The doors close. The guys continue to descend. Beat.
We might not smell very good. The guys shake their heads, yeah, no.
This might be the worst hangover anyone has ever had, ever.
I can't taste anything.
Please stop talking. If I don't focus on eating I'm going to throw up all over myself. The guys nod, right. They keep eating. After a long while:
Hey... Are we missing something? The guys all slowly look around. Then Stu points at Alan:
Yes: I left my hat in the room -- thank you, Alan. They continue eating. Alan looks up again, still troubled.
No. That's not it... There's something else... Vick nods at Stu as he stuffs food in his mouth.
You gonna finish that cruller? Stu shakes his head, no. Vick takes it, packs it into his already stuffed mouth. Then Alan realizes:
Doug. Guys, where's Doug? The guys look around. Hunh.
Yeah. He's not here.
Probably left him in the room. Vick pulls out his cell phone, starts dialing.
I'll call his cell. Then a phone RINGS in Stu's pocket. He answers:
Good morning, this is Stu?
It's me, meatdick.
 It's Vick-- Then Stu realizes. Oh.
This is Doug's phone. Vick nods, ya. He's already dialing another number.
You calling the room? Vick nods, uh-huh. He lets it ring, rubbing his temples. Then he hangs up.
No answer. Vick goes back to eating. Alan frowns.
Ummm...shouldn't we look for him? Check-out is in like ten minutes.
Yeah, and we told Tracy we'd have Doug back to LA by five. Vick just looks at both of them, his mouth full of food:
I'm eabing.
What an asshole. Stu, check the pool and the casino, I'll check the room and the gym. Maybe he's working out or something... Stu nods, and they slowly slide out of the booth.
And Vick, if you could keep a close eye on the buffet, that'd be really helpful. Thanks, man. Alan and Stu saunter off. Vick yells after them, mouth full:
Doug...? Doug...? Wake up, man. Alan enters the bedroom where Doug slept, and stops. It takes him a second to realize what's wrong:
That's weird...
No, no. It's cool, I'm a dad. It's totally cool...
I hate you all...
Two GAY MEN in identical tank tops pass by, holding hands.
Hey Stu.
Hey guys. DOUG! DOUG--! Then Stu registers what just happened. He stops and turns around -- enh? -- but the gay men are gone. Before he can comment, however, he sees Vick and Alan talking to Atashir at
You find Doug?
No, I assume you didn't either? Stu shakes his head, no. Then Atashir hangs up his phone.
There is no Doug Billings at any of the area hospitals, morgues, or police stations. The guys frown, starting to grow worried.
Maybe he went for a jog?
Dude. It's 120 degrees outside.
Or shopping? The guys just look at him like: you're an idiot.
Great. So we've officially lost Doug. His wedding is in what, 22 hours?
Relax, it's Doug, he's probably crashed out on someone's couch right now. All we have to do is retrace our steps from last night, and we'll find him.
Okay, so last night... The guys wince, trying to remember. It's painful to think.
Well, we started on the roof...
Right, that was like, 6ish...?
Then...I think...we had steaks at the Palm?
Yeah. Then...we played craps at the Hard Rock...maybe?
That sounds right... Stu throws up his arms, already giving up.
Okay, honestly? I don't even remember going to dinner.
I vaguely recall...doing body shots ....at some point? Is that...maybe?
I'm pretty much blank after The Hard Rock.
I think we went to the Flamingo after that...? And then, I just remember a lot of blue light...and the overpowering smell of baby oil.
So that was what, 10ish?
Give or take.
Was Doug still with us? Vick rubs his temples, trying to fight through the hangover.
Yes. Yes. Doug was with us. I tackled him...for some reason. The guys nod, okay, okay.
Okay. So we only have a 13 hour window where we could've lost him. They guys frown. Shit. Stu puts his hands into his pockets, thinking... Then he feels something. A matchbook. He pulls it out. It's from The Flamingo Nightclub.
Hey! Look, we were at the Flamingo. A long beat of silence... Then the guys hurry to an empty BLACKJACK TABLE and start emptying their pockets of the detritus from the night before. They find matchbooks, receipts, room keys, a valet ticket...
ATM receipt from the Rio at 10:37--  For 600 dollars?!
The valet ticket says we returned here at 4:57AM.
We drove last night? The guys wince, jesus...
Here's a receipt from Sbarro. The meal was comped for some reason--
Why do we have a matchbook from The Golden Pony All Male Revue? The guys exchange a look, alarmed.
Someone could've given that to us.
 Yeah, totally! There's no way we went there! We're not gay! Hahaha! They frown, then stare at all the clues lined up on the blackjack table.
I think we should call Tracy.
Absolutely not.
What if Doug called her? She might know where he is. Stu shifts uncomfortably, tenderly adjusting his ass.
Yeah, I'm with Alan on this one.
Of course you're with Alan, you're both gutless cowards. But we're not calling Tracy. You never call the bride from the bachelor party. Ever. If my balls were on fire and Tracy was sitting next door with a tall glass of water, I still wouldn't call her. It's a rule.
But shouldn't we at least tell her we're gonna be getting home late?
She has a watch, she'll figure it out.
I think I'm beginning to see why you're always single.
And I think I'm beginning to see why you're always a douche--
 Guys, wait. I need your help -- oh my God -- like right now. Come on.
Jesus, what is it?
I can't believe we're doing this.
You don't have to look up my butt, just at it. Something is terribly, terribly wrong... Stu's jeans fall to the ground -- and everyone freezes.
Sweet mother of mercy...
Who's Roger?
I-I-I don't know?! What do you think it means?!
What do I think it means? Well, Stuart, your ass is all torn up and you're wearing thong underwear declaring your love for another dude -- I don't think we need the CSI team for this one! You got reamed last night, man! Stu covers his mouth, horrified!
I'm sure there's a perfectly logical explanation for this...
Really?! What?! Alan tries to think of one.
Yeah, maybe there isn't.
Look, I'm sure Roger is a very nice, considerate young man--
Oh my God, guys: what if I'm gay?!
Come on, Stu, you're nowhere near cool enough.
 I do watch Dancing With The Stars with the kids!
Oh god, that doesn't mean you're gay.
But sort of...it does? Stu grows increasingly frantic.
And once, I caught myself gazing at a topless photo of David Beckham!
So what, he's a great-looking dude--
And then I had those weird feelings for Vick that time in middle school, remember?! Everyone stops. Vick most of all.
Um, what?
Yeah, that weekend we were all camping -- I told you this.
Yeah, no you didn't.
I didn't?
I think I'd remember, dude.
Yeah, I think we'd all remember.
Yeah. I had weird feelings for you that weekend. Like really hot, really gay feelings. But then they went away. Vick is just looking at him, stunned.
Wait -- I was there that weekend. Did you have gay feelings for me?
Unbelievable.
What?! I was a good-looking kid!
Please, you're so not his type!
Wait, what? Just then, a FATHER and his YOUNG SON enter the men's room and see Stu standing there, pants down, in his G string...
Look, Stu, one homosexual experience doesn't mean you're permanently gay, okay? A lot of guys test the waters. ...the FATHER and SON wheel right back around and exit.
All right, we're scaring the children. Let's go. The guys head for the door. Stu quickly pulls up his pants.
Wait -- so have either of you tested the waters?
No! We're not gay!
How am I going to tell my wife?
Quickly, and from a great distance. Alan's hand accidentally hits a brass railing and CLINKS...
Jesus, what kind of father am I? Alan's hand CLINKS against the railing again, and this time it registers. Alan looks down -- and stops cold.
Oh my God.
 You think Erin will try to take the kids--?
Oh...my...God.
 What now? Alan holds up the source of his CLINKING: on his ring finger is a huge, tacky, silver WEDDING RING with a unicorn on it.
 Cool ring. Also, my Dad is gonna have a field day with this. Vick, however, recognizes the implications of the ring, and starts back towards Alan.
Oh my God... Oh my God...
What's the big--?  Oh! OH! OH!
Maybe it's not a wedding ring?
 "To My Noble Husband, Alan." The guys eyes bulge, oh shit!
This is worse than my underwear! Vick takes the ring and reads the rest of the inscription:
"Now & Forever Wedding Chapel." They guys exchange a look.
Well, at least it's a lead. Beat. Then Alan turns and THROWS UP all over the slot machine. Nearby OCTOGENARIAN SLOT PLAYERS look over, disgusted -- but continue playing their nickels.
So, we go to the wedding chapel, we find out what we did with Doug, we recover him, and we're back in LA before sundown. Easy as Stu's ass. No one laughs. Tense SILENCE as they wait for the car.
Check it out, some idiot threw his bed out the window last night. Stu points over at a huge stone GRIFFIN in front of the hotel with an ENTIRE BED impaled upon its ear.
That was us, dude.
Really?
Yeah, there's no bed in Doug's room.
Yeah, Stu, I really do.
Guys, relax. Everything's gonna be cool... Just then the Valet drives up in
You okay, Vick?
I'm not emotionally prepared to talk about it just yet, Stuart, but thank you. Vick dons his sunglasses and heads for his destroyed car...
Seriously: what am I gonna tell Becky? For 14 years she's been begging me to get married...
Well, now you did. Just not to her. Alan glowers at the city going by... Then he sits up--
Wait, is that homeless guy wearing Doug's shirt? The guys turn to see a HOMELESS GUY weaving down the sidewalk in Doug's DISTINCTIVE ORANGE SHIRT from the night before. Once they pass, the guys exchange a look.
Naaah.
Yeah, that was a different shirt. Alan doesn't look so sure. They drive in silence. Then:
Left turn. Stu, sitting shotgun, braces against the empty doorframe so as not to fall out of the car as they turn left...
What if they don't remember us--?
The guys turn to find the hirsute owner of the chapel, STEVE GIANOPOLUS, 40's, in a tight white suit, his arms spread wide. Steve is all Vegas, by way of Long Island.
How are you, you dumb bastards?!
Does the pope wear a funny hat?! Let's do this thing! Steve CACKLES and guides them over to a table; Alan scowls.
And where is Chastity today? They all sit on white plastic chairs.
W-Who's...Chastity?
Uh, it was such a lovely ceremony, wasn't it?
Hand to God, I've never seen two people more in love!
Sadly, I believe you... The guys look at the photos of Alan's wedding from the night before. They're typical wedding shots, only the guys are all wearing MEDIEVAL COSTUMES, swords, bows, tights, even armor. They look incredibly happy -- and incredibly drunk. The next photo is of Alan and his BUSTY BLONDE BRIDE. She's having a blast in a white medieval gown and tiara.
Hello, Chastity... Alan just closes his eyes, oh God.
I am never...ever...drinking again.
Jesus, she is stacked.
Stu, please, show some class. That's Alan's wife you're talking about.
 Sorry. She looks really nice. But Alan is too busy gaping at the next photo, of him and Chastity atop a UNICORN in the chapel. (It is, of course, a rented pony with a lame horn strapped to its head.)
We got a unicorn?!
Oh, yeah, you got the entire Double Camelot Package. Alan just rubs his temples, oh no.
A-And how much did that cost?
7 thousand dollars. Alan closes his eyes. Stu and Vick exchange a look, no way!
Yeah, you didn't want to get it, either, but Vick insisted. Beat. Then Alan pounces across the table at Vick!
I'm gonna kill you!
 You can't put a pricetag on love, Alan! OW! You just can't!
Ahhh! I'm just busting your nuts! She lowers the dolly and hurries over for hugs.
Good to see you, you stupid mooks! Stu and Alan force smiles, no idea who this woman is. Vick, on the other hand, steps forward and hugs her tightly.
It's good to be seen, Carla. It's good to be seen.
I brought the rest of your package. Carla begins unloading things from the cardboard boxes.
First: Two dozen commuter mugs... She unpacks 24 COMMUTER MUGS with Alan and Chastity's photo emblazoned on them. Alan winces, oh god. Stu grabs one:
No way! Awesome!
A hundred DVDs of the ceremony... She lays out the stacks of DVDs. Vick nods at Alan:
For you and Chastity to watch on your anniversary... Alan just clenches his jaw, I fucking hate you.
The velvet wall hanging... She pulls out a six foot air-brushed velvet WALL HANGING of Alan and Chastity riding the unicorn together in outer space.
And it looks like real velvet, Alan, so no machine wash, okay?
And the big finish: Vick and Stu do a DRUMROLL on the table, excited... Then Carla pulls out a FOUR FOOT BRONZE SHIELD with a bas- relief of Alan and Chastity MAKING OUT on it. Alan just closes his eyes.
I want a shield!
Me too! Hey, can Stu and I get a shield?
I don't suppose you have any sort of return policy, do you?
Um...if you know another couple who looks exactly like you guys, and who want two dozen commuter mugs, a wall hanging, and a shield...sure. Alan scowls. Then his cellphone RINGS. He angrily answers it without looking at the Caller ID.
What. We hear someone YELLING AT HIM. Alan's eyes bulge.
Oh, hey Becky! Hi! He steps away to take the call. Vick explains to Carla:
That's his girlfriend of 14 years. I'm sure this'll only take a minute...
in her Laura Ashley bedroom, angrily packing up her suitcase. She's beautiful and preppy in pearls and a sweater set.
Can you tell me why all the goddamn credit cards are maxed out?!
No! I-I have no idea--! Then Vick calls over from the white plastic table, pissed:
"Your best man?!" What's going on there, Alan?!
Nothing! Baby, nothing, the GUYS
I really don't appreciate being mocked right now, Alan, especially about wedding-related issues. You know how hard this weekend is going to be for me.
I know, baby! I know--
So you'll call the credit card company and straighten this out?
Yes. I will. I promise.
Okay. Okay...  Look, sorry I'm so tense... I'll see you soon, okay? Love you. But Alan is just staring at the BRONZE SHIELD of him making out with his blonde bombshell wife...
Alan? Hello? I said I love you?!
Yes, no, I love you too! Becky hangs up, rolling her eyes, unbelievable. STAY WITH ALAN as he closes his cellphone. Exhales.
Hey, how's Becky doing, man?!
Yeah, did she ask about us?! Off of Alan's hate-filled glare, we
Look on the bright side, Alan. Vick found a great clue.
Turns out Doug was in all the wedding photos, which means -- if the time stamp was right -- we had him in our possession until 11 pm.
That's another hour of last night that we can account for. Isn't that great?
 Amazing.
Hey, Steve, you don't happen to know where we were heading when we left here last night, do you?
Well, the Double Camelot Package comes with a five course wedding feast, so I assume you went there.
Great -- where was the feast?
Sbarro, over in the Fremont mall.
I paid 7 grand for Sbarro?!
Your negativity is like a little black cloud over our car, Alan. You've got to let go of this.
Let go of what, exactly, Vick?! The fact that I married a complete stranger last night? Or that my girlfriend's about to leave me? Or that I'm broke? Which one?!
You're broke? I thought you were
I know you think it's like terminally uncool to be in a committed relationship, Vick, but I actually love Becky, okay?
Alan. Honey. Have you considered, even for a second, that maybe the things we do when we're drunk are what we secretly want to do?
 Yeah, no, you're absolutely right, Vick, I've always secretly wanted to marry a bottle blonde with big fake melon tits named Chastity!
I ain't mad atcha, dude...
Or, after 14 years, maybe you don't have the balls to leave Becky, and this is your way of getting her to leave you.
I was going to propose to her this weekend, you jackass!
All the more reason to freak out. Alan opens his mouth to respond, but nothing comes out. Vick nods, chew on that, and continues slowly reversing the car.
I love you, Alan Mervish, I do, but you've always had a major pole up your ass. Maybe last night was your inner cool person trying to get out-
I swear to God, Vick, if you say one more word to me, I will destroy you.
Guys, come on, let's not use our angry words--
A baseball bat SHATTERS the windshield! The guys all jump! Vick slams on the brakes!
What the--?! They look up to see two MASSIVE SAMOAN MEN in loud Hawaiian shirts, KALOLO FANALUA and KIKIOLANI, 30's, standing on either side of the car. And they look pissed.
Get out of the car, Vick. Stu and Alan recoil in terror.
Who are these guys?!
Stu, please.  I think there's been some sort of mistake, Mister...?
I'm Mr. Shut The Hell Up And Get The Hell Outta The Car, and this is my associate, Mr. Smash You In The Teeth If You Say Another Word.
 Those so aren't their real names.
Vick, don't be a dick--!
Alan? Relax. These men aren't going to hurt us. They're from Hawaii.
We're from Guam, bitch! Now get outta the car!
Okay, okay! Cool it with the bat! Jesus, why is everyone trying to kill my car...? Vick undoes his seatbelt   and reaches for his door handle. Kikiolani lowers his bat   -- and Vick throws the door open, right into his nuts! The   huge Samoan staggers back, OWWW, and Vick slams his door shut   and
Why'd you do that?!
Maybe they just wanted to talk!
I honestly don't know how you two are still alive.
Do you think we stole something from them last night?!
Oh my god I am such a bad dad!
 I'm calling the police. This is getting way out of control--
No! No cops!
"No cops?!" Who are you, Fitty Cent?!
Yeah, Vick, what's going on?
Nothing! I just think we should focus on finding Doug and not get distracted by every little thing!
Every little thing?! We were just assaulted by the Yakuza!
Oh please, those guys are from Guam. Get a grip.
They knew your name, Vick! Which means they probably know who Stu and I are, too!
If anything ever happened to my family, Vick...
Fine. Let's just go back to the hotel -- Doug is probably back from wherever he spent the night, we'll get him, we'll straighten out whatever we did to those angry Samoans, then we'll get the hell back to LA, okay? Left turn. Vick angrily takes a harder-than-necessary left turn. Alan hangs on tight, almost flying out of the car.
Doug? Doug? Alan quickly checks the room phone.
No messages.
Come on, let's toss the place. Alan starts wading through the crap in the living room, while Vick and Stu head off to check the bedrooms...
Hey, check it out, Vick! I invested 30 grand in your custard store last night! Vick calls from the other bedroom.
Smart move, man. Stu opens the closet door -- and freezes.
Hey, you wanna come in here a sec?! Vick enters a moment later to find Stu staring into the closet. Vick follows his gaze and sees a SEXY WOMAN snoring away on the closet floor, her blonde hair obscuring her face.
Whoa.
You think she's what those Guamian dudes wanted?
No. I think she's Alan's wife. Stu covers his mouth, oh shit! Vick produces the wallet- sized photos from Alan's wedding, compares them, and nods.
Alan? Wanna step in here, buddy? A second later Alan enters, what's up?
Alan, Chastity. Chastity, Alan. Alan looks down, sees Chastity SNORING on the closet floor, her body all contorted, and freezes. Oh my God.
What...what am I supposed to do?
Wake her up, man!
Why me?!
Because she's your spouse, dude! Scowling, Alan slowly crouches down. Then, a little scared, he nudges her. Nothing. He nudges her harder.
Pinch her tit. It always works. Alan shakes her a bit harder and -- BRRAPPPP -- the girl lets out a massive burp and awakens, COUGHING. Alan jumps back up, terrified. The woman, CHASTITY, looks around, disoriented.
Dang, did I sleep in the closet again...? Then she notices the guys staring down at her. She smiles, recognizing them:
Oh hey, guys! What's up? She shakily climbs to her feet to expose a skimpy skirt, a snug tube top, and mascara smeared all over her face. The guys have no idea what to say. She kisses Alan on the cheek, very intimate -- like, well, a husband and wife.
Morning, honey... She exits into the living room, picking her wedgie. Beat. Alan is speechless.
She seems really cool.
Yeah, I really like her, man.
So, um, did you take Alan's name?
Yeah, are you Chastity Mervish now--?
Listen to me. Just...did we, or did we not, have sex last night? Alan braces, please say no, please say no... Vick braces, please say yes, please say yes...
Well...ya? Alan slumps, his life over. Vick pumps his fist, YES!
But we waited til we were married. Alan GROANS.
What a responsible, upstanding young Jew. They don't make `em like that anymore, am I right? Chastity smiles, sweet, as she straps on her 6 inch heels.
I know -- he even wanted to use a rubber. Alan breaks into a COUGHING FIT.
Wait-- we didn't use a condom?!
It's cool, I sponge. Alan leans against a wall, dizzy.
Can someone...please open a window?
They don't open.
So you guys don't remember any of last night?
Yeah, not so much.
Hey, been there before, right?  Sucks, though. The wedding was really fun. I'm bummed you don't remember it, Alan. She smiles, a little saddened. Stu whispers to Alan:
Dude, I think your wife's mad at you.
You don't happen to remember what time we met you last night, do you?
Sure, we met at the bar at like 10:00? Then we got married on my smoke break, which was like 11:00?
It's the All-American love story, isn't it? What happened next?
Well, I had to go back to work. But when I got off at 5:30, I met up with you guys back here.
And was Doug with us then?
No.
Interesting... Do you have any idea where we went after the wedding?
No, but I bet some of my work friends do. You were partying with them pretty hard.
Work friends?
Dozens of `em, dancing, grinding, shimmying on poles.
You work here? Behind him, Vick SLAPS FIVE with Stu, psyched.
Yeah -- and this is the pole where we first met! She stops at a pole, around which a BRUNETTE STRIPPER currently spins. Alan looks ill.
It's always been my lucky pole...
Look, I don't know how to tell you this, but--
Come on, let's go meet my bridesmaids!
Dude.
I know.
The Holocaust, man. Alan just stares into space. Vick takes him by the shoulder.
Look, we can get your grandmother's ring back. We just gotta go about it in the right way.
I have besmirched my people.
Don't be so hard on yourself, dude-- Just then Chastity runs back over with two BLONDE STRIPPERS.
These were my bridesmaids, Anastasia and Starr!
Hey, boys! Good to see you again!
Mazel Tov--!
Please...don't. Just then a SPOTLIGHT finds Chastity and Alan, and the SLEAZY PONYTAILED DJ up in the booth comes over the P.A. system:
Oh my God, he's playing our song!  This song was playing when we met, remember?! You kept sliding twenties into my thong and saying "I will always love you. I will always love you." Alan closes his eyes.
Twenties?
Yeah, it was so sweet...
Look, I don't know how to say this, but my friends and I were very drunk last night. We would never come to a place like this-- He glances over at Vick and Stu -- but they're gone.
Guys?
You are the best bridesmaids ever.
 Dude: I might not be gay. Then Alan hurries in with Chastity; he looks pissed.
What the hell are you doing?!
Two-for-ones, man.
We don't have time for this! We gotta find Doug!
What do you think we're doing?
What?
We're getting into the mindset of last night, to see if it sparks any memories.  Now: is this exactly how you were dancing for me last night, Starr? She nods. Vick nods, pensive, scientific.
Yeah, still no memories. Keep going -- and put your back into it.
You are so goddamn selfish, Vick. You really are. Stu, let's go.
No. Stu, sit and enjoy your dance. Stu looks between them, torn.
Dude: Doug is missing! We have less than 18 hours til his wedding! We do not have time for this!
I'm trying to save your life here, Alan Mervish.
Vick--!
I'm not kidding, man! Life is one long series of emergencies, and if you don't learn to stop and have a little fun along the way, you're gonna grow into a joyless old prick like your dad. I'm sorry to bring Moshe Mervish into it, but it had to be said. Now yes, we have 18 hours to find Doug -- which means we can afford to spend ten minutes celebrating the special talents of these gifted young body-artists. So sit down, have a jager shot, and smell the goddamn roses for once in your miserable life. Chastity, honey? When you're ready? Chastity pushes Alan onto the red leather banquette and starts dancing for him. He tries to squirm away:
No, look-- I am like totally against this, morally and politically. Plus Becky specifically asked me not to--
I think I know why he married her.
Because if he hadn't, I would've. They continue watching on in silence.
Is it weird that we're sitting this close watching?
Not for me. More watching in silence.
I really shouldn't be here. I have daughters. Then both of their heads angle the same way.
Not that can do that.
How can she do that without dislocating her hip?
Because she's been touched by God. They continue staring, amazed. Just then, the door is kicked open and KIKIOLANI and KALOLO FANALUA burst into the Champagne Room, peering through the darkness, looking for our guys. Vick and Stu see them immediately.
Shit. They both hop up. Alan remains sitting, however, hypnotized by Chastity. Vick grabs him.
Alan, come on, man, we gotta go!
Whoa, whoa, I'm smelling the roses-- Vick literally yanks Alan up from the banquette.
Come on, man! We got company! Finally, the Guamians spot the guys and lumber for them!
Chastity, honey, is there a back way out of here?! Thinking fast, Chastity grabs her clothes and darts over to a darkened, unlabeled FIRE DOOR.
Come on! The guys race after her...
Come on! Chastity, in six inch leucite heels, sprints down the main runway, leaps over the patrons sitting at the end, and hits the floor running!
Did she just do that in heels?!
I'm really starting to like this girl. The guys all follow suit, sprinting down the runway and leaping over the patrons! Then the Guamians blow through the curtain, panting, very upset. They lumber down the stage -- and the patrons at the end of the runway clear the hell out of the way.
Did you see them trample those tiny Japanese businessmen?! I think they killed like four of them! Everyone laughs. Vick puts his arm around Alan.
Come on, Alan: tell me that wasn't just a little fun...
That was...a little fun. Vick smiles -- just as a LAS VEGAS POLICE CAR hops the curb, lights flashing, and cuts them off! Two mustachioed COPS get out and hurry for them, pointing, intense.
Where were you last night at 3am?
No idea.
Okay, how about at 2am?
Ditto. Officer Bladen SLAMS the table with his fist.
You think this is cute, son?! You think this is a game?!
Whatever we did, we're so sorry!
Honestly, man, I will confess to anything you want!
Stu: stop talking. Alan: sit up straight. Officer Merriweather, I've told you twelve times now: we have no memory of last night. Now either charge us with a crime, or let us go. Merriweather scowls and nods at Bladen, who steps over to a TELEVISION and turns it on. Merriweather, meanwhile, pulls out a photograph of a slick ASIAN MAN in a red suit, slides it onto the table.
What do you know about Jimmy Lang? Vick flinches ever-so-slightly, clearly knowing something. Stu and Alan just look at the photograph, confused.
Nothing?
Who is he?
Jimmy Lang runs the infamous Shiang- Xi crime organization, and is wanted in seven states for money laundering, drug smuggling, racketeering and murder.
Oh my god--
Did we kill someone last night--?!
We have no idea who this man is.
Is that right?
Yeah, that's right. ON THE TELEVISION, grainy surveillance camera footage of a birthday party starts playing. In the video, JIMMY LANG sits in an upscale restaurant, in front of a BIRTHDAY CAKE, as a table full of hip ASIAN GUYS serenade him with "Happy Birthday To You." When the guys sitting next to Jimmy lean forward to help him blow out the candles on his cake, however, we see that it's Vick, ALAN, STU, DOUG, and some BLACK GUY, all very drunk!
I love you, Jimmy Lang! Merriweather FREEZES FRAME on Vick kissing the top of Jimmy Lang's shaved head. In the interrogation room, Vick, Stu and Alan sit, frozen. Silence.
We're in a lot of trouble, aren't we.
Officers, I swear, we have no memory of that ever occurring--
Okay. Maybe a night in jail will jostle something loose.
Oh no, sir, please don't!
We have a very important wedding--!
I know Jimmy Lang. Everyone stops, looks at Vick.
You do?!
Jimmy and I tried to raise capital for Girl-nasium, a 24 hour fitness center and day spa for tween-age girls, but it never got off the ground. It was an entirely legitimate enterprise -- I had no idea he was a criminal. We must've bumped into him last night, and he must've invited us to join his birthday celebration. No crime in that, is there, Officers? Merriweather gets in Vick's face, intense.
You actually expect me to believe that dung?
If I find out you're lying to me, son, I will take all of you down, is that clear?
You boys wouldn't last three hours in prison.
Stu might. Stu shakes his head, unbelievable.
Now: are you gonna charge us with something, or are we free to go? The cops look at each other, scowling. Beat.
Get outta here. Stu and Alan quickly hop to their feet and make for the door.
Oh, thank you, Officers!
It was really nice meeting you--!
If you know what's good for you, you'll get the hell out of Vegas.
Did you have to be such a dick?!
We got out, didn't we?
Yeah, four hours later! If we'd just cooperated with them--
If we'd cooperated with them, we'd be in jail right now, Alan. They reach the curb, and Stu starts trying to hail a cab. Desperation is setting in.
What are we gonna do now? We've got zero leads on where Doug is!
Why hasn't he called? It's 8:30. The guys shake their heads, I don't know.
Do you think he's okay--?
Stu, don't. Doug is fine.
I mean, we were hanging out with mobsters last night, man! They kill people for looking at `em weird--!
Stu: Doug is fine.
Or what if we like drove Doug out to the desert and left him, just as like a funny prank--?!
Stu! Enough!
What did you just say?
I said I knew I shouldn't have come this weekend, Vick!
 Is that right?
Yeah, that's right. I only came because Doug insisted. Vick steps towards Alan, heated.
Why do think you're so much better than us, dude?!
I don't -- I just think I'm better than you, Vick! And trust me, it's not that hard! You haven't changed one bit since high school! Jesus, you're 28 years old and you still talk back to cops?! Really?!
You're out of your depth, Alan--
And you're still the one getting us in trouble! Only then it was hiding your weed in our locker, and now you've got us partying with wanted felons! It's not cute anymore, man! We're too old for this! Vick scowls; this is actually hitting home...
And all your stupid get-rich-quick schemes?! Girl-nasium?! Custard?! In Los Angeles?! Are you joking?!
Okay, let's all take a breath--
When's the last time you had a real job, man?! When's the last time you had a girlfriend?! Hell, when's the last time you picked up the check?!
What's so great about any of those things?!
Those "things," Vick, are what grown men do! Vick swallows, furious.
Look, we're all tired and hungry--
None of us ever liked you, Alan! We only hung out with you because Doug made us! Alan recoils, whoa, stung. This is clearly news to him.
Stu...? Is that true? Stu gestures, uncomfortable, enh, who's to say? Alan nods, I see, his face reddening.
Why would anyone like you, dude? Have you ever thought about that? You're uptight, you're judgemental, you're cheap, and yet somehow you think you're sweeter than everyone else! Well look around, man: no one wants to be you! I'd rather be Stu than you!
Wait, what--? Too late: Alan charges Vick and TACKLES him onto the lawn! They roll on the ground, trying to punch each other, but it ends up being a mess of half-chops, pulled hair, and hands in each other's faces...
I've...always...hated you...
You punch like...your sister... Stu runs over and jumps in, trying to break them apart.
Hey, no! Time out! We all need a time out--! THUNK! Stu is accidentally kicked in the face and goes down. Alan and Vick continue rolling on the lawn, trying to beat the crap out of each other. They could be kids again. Then, just when it starts getting way too intense,
That might not be like, the smartest place to fight? Vick and Alan look over at the huge LAS VEGAS POLICE DEPARTMENT sign right next to them. They frown...
Good call on happy hour, Chastity. These tacos kick ass.
Yeah, I always come here when I get out of jail. The guys exchange a quick look.
Hey -- how'd you start Vick's car?
Oh, my daddy taught me how to hotwire almost anything.
That's funny, because Alan's daddy taught him tax law. Chastity smiles, a little confused. Alan is quick to retort:
And Vick's daddy taught him how to get really drunk at his kid's soccer games and then piss himself.
It's a disease, dude--!
Guys, come on! For Doug?
"Number blocked."
Don't answer it.                 Answer it.
What if it's Doug?
What if it's Tracy?!
 Good evening, this is Stu!
Stu, it's Tracy! His eyes bulging, Stu covers the phone and hisses:
It's Tracy! Vick glares at Alan. Alan looks away, shit.
Why is she calling me?!
Because she knows you're the most easily tricked.
We have tell her we lost Doug.
No we don't! Tell her nothing, Stu! Stu turns back to the phone, rattled.
Hey, Trace! W-What's going on?
Oh, nothing, just here with my family...
Wow, that sounds amazing!
Yeah...? Hey, you wouldn't happen to know where Doug is, would you? He said he'd be home by 5 for this dinner, and now it's almost 9:00. I tried his cell, but he didn't answer...
Ummmm........Hang on.  She wants to know where Doug is!
I'm working on it! Buy us some time!
No, just tell her the truth! Honesty is always the best policy!
What are you, retarded?! Honesty is never the best policy! Especially not with brides!
 Um, what'd you say?
Yeah, um, hang on.  She still wants to know!
Okay: tell her Alan got really drunk last night and fell down, and the doctor said not to move him for a few hours, but that we'll be back in time for the wedding.
Why do I have to be the one that fell over drunk?!
It's a fictitious canard, Alan, get over yourself! Stu: tell her!
Listen, Tracy, Alan fell on a
Fell over drunk.
H-He was drunk. And the doctor -- a different doctor, not the one he fell on -- he said we couldn't move him until the wedding--
For a few hours! We'll be home before the wedding!
But we're going to have the wedding at your home-- Tracy just looks really confused. Exasperated, Vick rips the phone away from Stu.
Tracy?! Vick! How are ya, hon?
 Vick, what is going on?
Nothing! Stu is a moron. Listen, Alan hurt his back last night, so we're gonna be laid up here for a bit, but I promise we'll have Doug home in time for the wedding, okay?
Oh God, is Alan all right?
Yes, luckily he had a steel rod surgically implanted up his ass at birth, so the doctors anticipate a complete and swift recovery. Alan flips him the bird.
Can I talk to Doug?
What? No! No, you can't actually, Doug...Doug is out.
Where is he?
Where is he? He's aaaat...the pharmacy. Yeah, picking up Alan's medications. Listen, Trace, I'm losing you, but we'll see you tomorrow, okay? Bye, sweetie--! Vick hangs up and nods confidently.
She bought it.
They've done something stupid. Her stern father is standing there, frowning.
No surprise there.
I'm just saying, what kind of man stands up his fiance the night before their wedding?
Dad, I don't want to hear it. I trust Doug absolutely. Mr. Turner backs off. Tracy, however, looks a bit rattled...
Perfect. We just told Tracy we'd have Doug home in 13 hours, and we still have no idea where he is... They pass a DOORMAN on their way out, who's standing with a stamp and a UV light reader.
Handstamp for re-entry? Handstamp for re-entry? Everyone waves, no thanks -- except for Stu, who shrugs, why not, and stops, holding out his hand.
Maybe we should go back to the hotel and--
Oh my God, guys! Look! Stu holds his hand under the UV light -- it's covered in STAMPS from all the clubs they've been to the night before! Stu yanks up his sleeve to reveal his ENTIRE FOREARM GLOWS, completely covered with stamps! The guys hurry back and slide their forearms under the UV light, too: they all have the same stamps! Their eyes alight:
It's like a map of last night! The guys look at each other, hope returning to their faces!
Where do you want to start?!
At the top! We hit every club we went to til someone remembers what we did with Doug!
Nice clue, Stuey! I can't believe we're actually gonna pull this off! Stu grins over at the car next to them. Then he stops.
Hey: is that guy wearing Doug's hat?! The guys look over to see that the DRIVER of the next car over is, in fact, wearing the DISTINCTIVE FEDORA-STYLE HAT Doug was wearing last night. The guy turns off the Strip.
Naaah, couldn't be.
Lots of people have hats like that. Stu nods, yeah, I guess...
All right, this is the last place we went, "Chaps." Vick rolls to a stop in front of...
It takes a moment for the guys to realize that everyone in line is male, buff, and wearing erotic cowboy gear.
You sure we came here...? Then they look up at the marquee. It reads "CHAPS: HOME OF
The Golden Pony. That's us.
Maybe I'll just wait in the car-- But Vick is already shoving Stu out of the car.
You think we would've remembered this...
Yeah, I don't think we came here...
Then why is your underwear nailed to the wall? The guys turn to see numerous pairs of MEN'S UNDERWEAR nailed to the wall nearby. A sign above it reads "CHAPS WALL OF FAME." We recognize Stu's COLORADO STATE BOXERS.
Those could be anybody's. Thousands of people go to Colorado State--
 Oh my God, are they autographed?
 I am so gay... Just then, a BUFF WAITER in assless chaps blows by, smiling.
Hey, guys! Roger is backstage! The guys look at each other, eyes wide.
R-Roger?
Stay very close to me. She smiles and dances through the crowd.
How are Haylee and Kaitlin?
 Oh. G-Good, thanks...?
We're going to love you either way, Stu... Stu nods, focussed, nervous, like before a big game.
Some of my best friends are gay.
Is that true?
Not...not really? I live in Connecticut, man, we don't even have black people yet. Stu nods, right. Then, after steeling himself, he enters...
Excuse me, friend, can you tell me where Roger is?
Oh, hey, Vick! Roger's over there. He points to a really hot, really naked guy with a funky mullet, stretching out in front of his mirror. The guys shuffle over to him. Vick tries to be supportive with Stu:
He's cute...I guess...? Stu shrugs, yeah, I guess...? As they draw close, Roger sees them, and smiles.
Oh! Hey guys! He hugs all of them. The guys make sure to keep their asses arched back to avoid genital contact.
I'm surprised you're even walking yet, Stu.
 Oh my god.
Listen, man, we don't really remember what happened last night, can you fill us in?
Really? No memory? Stu shakes his head, wide-eyed, scared...
Well, I must say, Stu, I'm a little hurt.
Did we...you know...do anything?
Well, duh? Yeah?
Was I...the boy or the girl?
Oh, honey, you were everything. Stu WHIMPERS. Vick and Alan exchange a look, holy shit!
But you were nothing like Vick.
Wait-- what?!
I know, I'm sort of over group stuff too, but Alan insisted. Now it's Alan's turn to look stunned.
You insisted?! Why'd you insist?!
I don't know! I don't know why I insisted!
Actually, after the anger went away, it was really quite tender. The guys look at each other, nauseous.
I'm really not sure we can be friends anymore... Finally, Chastity starts LAUGHING.
Guys: he's kidding. Roger breaks into a smile and slaps five with Chastity. The guys all exhale, incredibly relieved.
Not cool, Roger. Not cool.
So what did happen last night?
Oh, well, you guys came in near the end of our last set, like 2ish. Doug pretty much dragged you in.
Really? Doug did?
Oh no, my Doug, not your Doug. Black guy, shaved head? The guys look at each other, confused.
He's a cake designer, he said he met you guys at some sort of birthday party at the Rio?
 The guy from the Jimmy Lang surveillance video. The guys nod, right.
Anyway, for the big finale of our show, we always bring someone on stage, and, well, Stu, you volunteered pretty aggressively.  Hey Dallas, do we have the video of last night's show?
No! That's cool, I don't need to see it--
We must see that video.
It's in the machine. Roger nods and presses PLAY on a little VCR/TV combo sitting in front of his mirror. ON THE TV a very Brokeback, Chippendale's-style male revue starts playing. Stu GASPS. Roger fast forwards.
You were pretty mellow at first, Stu, but once we got you into the chaps, you really came alive-- oh, here it is.
I'm a Dad, I-I don't get to the gym as much as I'd like...
You even taught us The Pony, which we'd never even heard of before... ON THE TV Stu gets on all fours on the stage, and eagerly gestures for the dancers to take turns "riding" him. Stu's face drops.
And then, of course, the pice de resistance: the Ride of the Valkyries. ON THE VIDEO Stu clutches onto Roger from behind as they ride a LAVENDER MECHANICAL BULL together. The crowd goes wild.
Annnnd that would explain the searing ass pain.
After the show, we split a couple pitchers of flirtinis, you had our stylist cut your hair like mine, and then you split.
And what time was all this?
4:30 in the morning? 4:45?
And our Doug was with us?
Yeah, he had passed out by then, but you carried him out. It was all very Officer And A Gentleman. The guys look at each other, confused.
Wait, so we left with Doug at 4:45, we got back to the hotel at 5:00, and Doug was gone by 5:30 when Chastity met back up with us?
That doesn't make any sense.
Did we lose him along the way?
He was passed out, how far could he have gone--? Just then, Vick's cellphone rings. The caller ID reads "MANDALAY BAY." He answers:
Hello?
Mr. Lennon?
Atashir, many greetings to you.
I thought you might like to know that one of our maids just found your friend, Douglas, passed out in your room. Vick's jaw drops.
What?! Are you sure it's him?!
I saw him with my own eyes. He is unconscious but breathing nicely.
Oh thank you, Atashir! You are a man of great honor! A thousand blessings upon your ancestors! Vick SLAMS his phone shut, overjoyed.
Doug is in the room! A maid just found him! He's passed out, but he's okay!
They're sure it's him?!
Atashir swears it is! The guys all laugh, a massive weight lifted.
Oh thank God he's okay...
After all this?! He's in the room?! They keep laughing and hug each other, heartfelt. Vick even hugs Roger.
I don't even care! Hug me, you big shiny homosexual!
That was cool of Roger to give you all the tapes of your performance.
I know, if I actually was gay, I'd totally date Roger first. What a gentle soul. They get into Vick's clunker.
How we doing on time?
EMPTY_LINE
We'll be in LA by dawn.  I told you bitches this would all work out... They drive off into the night, grins all around.
This has officially been the craziest weekend of my life.  Thanks for all your help. You were awesome.
Anything for my hubby. Alan's smile flickers slightly.
I'm kidding, Alan. I know last night wasn't, you know, real... She looks out at Vegas as it flies by.
I'm sorry about all this, Chastity.
Jennifer.
Beg pardon?
My name is Jennifer. Jennifer Elly. Alan hesitates; suddenly she seems a lot more...human.
Okay, well, I'm sorry, Jennifer.
Oh, don't be. Last night wasn't the first flaky decision I've ever made in my life. I mean, I am a stripper. Alan tries not to laugh. She smiles, a twinge sadly.
Where you from?
LA. Tarzana.
Oh yeah?
Yeah. I work here on the weekends.
You fly out every week?
Yeah. I'd move, but my kid is in a great school.
Kid?
 They always have kids.
I have a little girl, Sarah. She's... Well, she's everything. Chastity proudly shows Alan a photo from her purse of a cute little toddler. Alan smiles.
What about you?
No kids. Same girlfriend for 14 years. Becky. Alan shows her a photo of Becky on his cellphone.
Wow, she's stunning. Stu turns around, unable to keep quiet any longer:
We like you way better.
Chastity tries to stymie her laugh.
Becky is great.
Becky collects teapots.
Yeah, she's a total canwego.
A what?
You know, she's the girl at the party who's always like "Can we go? Can we go?" Chastity laughs. Alan does too, shaking his head.
She has low blood sugar.
She has low fun sugar.
Jesus, guys! This is the girl I'm going to marry!  If, you know...she forgives me for cheating on her...
Wait: you're going to tell her?
Of course I'm going to tell her! I could never keep something like that from her.
Dude, she still hasn't forgiven me for scratching her Queensryche CD in sixth grade -- she's neeeeever gonna forgive you for marrying a stripper in Vegas.
Well, then that's just the price I'm going to have to pay. Alan looks off, stoic. Chastity pats his hand, proud.
Good for you. She smiles at Alan, impressed, pulling her hair from her face. Alan looks at her anew... It's a sweet moment...
She's gonna cut your dick off, dude.
 Keep `er close, Paco. We'll be right back.
Doug! Wake up, man!
Aloha, assholes. The guys freeze.
Uh-oh. The door SLAMS behind them, and they whip around to see KIKIOLANI standing in front of the door, blocking their exit. He has an identical CAST on his right arm.
Not good. Just then, a toilet FLUSHES and an immensely large man in a red suit exits the bathroom, drying his hands. We recognize him from his police photo as crime boss JIMMY LANG, 50's.
Oh, hello. Good to see you again.
Where is Doug?
Listen, Mr. Lang, whatever we did last night, we are incredibly sorry-
These your rich friends you were telling me about, Vick? Alan and Stu glance at Vick, confused.
Oh, you haven't told them yet? Really, that's low. Even for you.
What's going on, Vick? Vick stammers, trying to find the words...
Six months ago, your friend Vick borrowed some money from me at what can only be described as a very unfavorable interest rate. When the loan came due, he failed to pay me back, but he promised me that he could get the money from you guys this weekend. Alan and Stu look at Vick, shocked and hurt.
Jesus, Vick...
How could you do this to us, man? We're your best friends... Vick looks away, ashamed.
They were gonna hurt me, man...
Well, Vick, it looks like you and your friends have some issues to discuss. In the meantime... He draws a huge, red-plated .357 MAGNUM.
I need my goddamn money. The guys jump back, whoa! Vick holds up his hands:
I can get it! I can! I just--
I've heard that before, Vick, including last night, when you so rudely skipped out on my birthday party. That's why I've taken some collateral to ensure your payment. His name is Doug. The guys all look sick.
You have Doug?
Oh my God...
If you want your friend to live, meet me at mile marker 26 off Highway 12 at dawn, and bring the money. Are we clear?
Yes! Yes. Jimmy nods and heads for the door. The Samoans follow him.
M-M-Mr. Lang?
Yes, Mr. Mervish?
H-How much does Vick owe?
200 thousand dollars?!
How the hell could you blow that kind of money?!
Was it for the custard store?
Jesus, Stu, wake up! There is no custard store! Vick was just trying to rip us off to pay back Jimmy Lang!
Is that true, Vick? Vick just stares out at the city, not denying it.
Were any of your deals...real?
Dude, I manage an Applebee's, that money meant something to me... Vick spins around, furious:
Do you really think I wanted my life to turn out like this, Stu?! Do you really think I don't know that I'm a massive loser?!
Jesus, you guys got out of high school and you just knew what to do, you went to college and got good jobs and found cool wives and made beautiful children -- what do I have to show for the last decade of my life?! Nothing! Vick swats a lamp off a nearby end-table -- it SMASHES against the wall! The guys freeze. Tense silence. Vick grows emotional.
Jesus, I'm almost 30, and the only thing I really have...the only thing I really have is you guys.
Come on, Vick--
No, man, it's true! I put on a good show, but my life is so goddamn hollow and vapid and lonely, it scares me, man. I-I don't know how much longer I can keep this scam going. And now I've gone and ruined the one good thing I had... Tears threaten in his eyes. He wipes at them, angry.
Just...please don't give up on me, okay? I-I don't know what I'd do without you guys. I really don't... Alan and Stu exchange a look. They've never seen brash, cocky Vick this vulnerable before. Stu can't help but give in.
Come on, man, we've been bro's since third grade, it's gonna take a lot more than money to ruin our friendship. Vick looks down, deeply touched...
What I don't understand is why you didn't just ask me for the money. I would've given you every last cent I had, man...
I love you, man.
Love you too, bro. Love you too. They hug tight. For a while.
Also, I banged your sister sophomore year. Vick pulls away.
What?!
Sorry. Just seemed like a good time to tell you. Vick stammers at Stu, speechless.
She had just broken up with that guy from Central, we were playing "I Never" at Tim Donahee's pool, one thing lead to another--
No! No. That's...that's plenty. Vick desperately tries to clear the image from his mind. Alan just frowns at his watch, stressed.
Look, I'm glad we're all sharing, but we've got three hours to come up with 200 grand, or else... The guys nod, frowning, back on point.
I'd offer to take a loan out, but it's 3 o'clock in the morning, I'm pretty sure my bank is closed.
I think I can get a 20 grand cash advance on my credit card...
So that just leaves 180 grand... The guys frown at each other.
Well, it is Vegas... The guys' eyebrows all rise, you think...?
Time check!
 12 minutes.
Chip check!
Faster! Come on chip check!
Dude, how many Red Bulls have you had?
I stopped counting at six! I can hear my heart beating in my head! Alan finishes counting the chips -- and frowns.
Just over 100 grand. The guys wince, damn.
There's only one thing left to do. They all exchange a knowing look...
You sure we don't want red?! What if the ball lands on red--!
Shut up, Stu.
Betting is closed. The Croupier drops the ball into the wheel. It bounces, hops, spins... Vick crosses himself. Stu looks away.
I can't watch! My   heart's gonna explode! Can your   heart even explode?! Because   I think my heart is gonna explode!   I can't watch! The ball lands. Dead silence.
It's red, isn't it?! I knew it! Tell me it's not red!
It's not red... Stu turns, ecstatic--
It's green. The ball has stopped on green, DOUBLE ZERO. Stu clutches his chest, like he's having a seizure. Vick inhales, grim. Alan slowly drops to his knees. Chastity closes her eyes. Their HUGE PILE OF CHIPS is raked off the table...
Would you like me to come with?
No...It might get a little dangerous. I wouldn't want... He trails off. Chastity nods.
I'm so sorry...about everything.
Thanks for all your help. Awkward silence. The cold desert wind blows.
There's no sense...in exchanging numbers or anything...right?
Yeah, probably not... Alan looks genuinely sad.
Well...I'll always remember you as a great first husband, then. They both smile weakly.
You can just send the divorce papers to the Crazy Horse or whatever... Alan nods, okay. Another awkward pause.
Thanks for reminding me that there are still some really good guys out there, Alan. I don't...I don't get to meet too many of them. She smiles a bit sadly, kisses him on the cheek, and walks off. TIGHT ON Alan's Grandmother's ring still on her finger. Alan doesn't remember the ring, however; he's too busy watching her walk out of his life, and feeling a real sense of loss... Then Vick fires up the car next to him.
We gotta go, man. Alan nods, yeah, and gets in the car...
Yep, just driving out to the middle of desert to meet some mobsters, what could possibly go wrong...? The guys all frown.
So what's our plan?
I think we should tell Mr. Lang that we couldn't get the money, but that, if he's amenable, we could create a payment calendar--
We're gonna give Jimmy a dummy bag of money, grab Doug, and make a run for it.
Yes, good! What an airtight plan--!
Jimmy Lang doesn't do payment calendars, Alan! Trust me: this is our only shot of getting Doug back! Left turn! Vick skids onto Highway 12 -- a barely labelled dirt road. Things are quickly going from bad to worse...
Any word from Doug?
Nope.
I'm sure everything's fine. They're all smart, capable adults...
This all the cash we got? The guys frown at their empty wallets, yeah. We are
This is the dumbest plan ever.
Alan I need you positive please.
Here they come. They all look up to see a WHITE YUKON approaching on the far horizon, kicking up a trail of dust. The guys tense up.
Stuart?
Yeah?
There's an emergency bottle of tequila in my glove box. Get it out please. Stu opens the glovebox, pulls out a bottle of Patron. He opens it, takes a swig, then passes it to Vick, who takes a pull and passes it to Alan, who also drinks. They all watch the white Yukon draw ever closer.
I can't believe this is how we're going to die... The Yukon pulls up about ten yards away. No one moves. The Yukon's doors open... The Cadillac's doors open... TIGHT ON the Jimmy Lang's RED BOOT as it hits the road...
Let's see the money! Vick gently holds up his duffel bag.
Let's see Doug! Jimmy Lang nods to Kalolo, who opens the back door of the Yukon and pulls out a GUY with his hands tied behind his back and a plastic RALPH'S BAG over his head; he struggles a bit. The guys look a bit alarmed.
Jesus, what'd they do to him?
Pull off the Ralph's bag! Jimmy yanks the bag off of the guy's head to reveal
Who the hell is that?!
Oh my God: it's the other Doug! Roger's friend, the cake designer!
 I told you, man, I'm Doug Howland! I barely even know these guys!
Yeah, you got the wrong Doug, man!
You sure?!
Yeah, man, our Doug is white!
But you were partying with this guy at my birthday thing!
I don't know what to tell you, bro, this isn't the Doug we requested!
Well. I apologize for the mix-up...  But I'm still gonna need my money. Vick and the guys start backtracking towards their car.
Oh my God Oh my God Oh my God...
Don't move, Vick. Vick freezes, duffel in hand, as Stu and Alan slink from view. Jimmy reaches Vick, gun calmly trained at his head.
Now please. Give me my money. All eyes on Vick, anxiously clutching the bag in his hand... Sweat beads on his brow...
Don't be stupid, son. You-- Then Vick throws a hard left hook, SLAMMING Jimmy square in his massive stomach! And
Jimmy is built like a tank. Vick freezes, oh shit. Then Jimmy PISTOL-WHIPS Vick -- his lip explodes with blood and he falls to the ground.
Christ that hurts!
Jimmy looks up to see Stu insanely charging him like the linebacker he once was! Jimmy raises his gun, but
I'm being shot at! I'm being shot at!
Jimmy Lang throws Stu off of him and recovers his gun, panting. He cocks it, aims it at Stu on the ground.
I really didn't want to kill anyone
Then WHAM! Alan drives the car into Jimmy Lang at 25mph! The obese mobster is pitched off his feet, and lands a good ten yards away, in a heap of dust! The guys freeze, shocked.
Oh my god, is he okay?!
Who cares! Go go! Alan floors the car while Stu and Vick SPRINT and DIVE in! The caddy peels the hell out of there, kicking up rocks and dust! The Guamians FIRE after them!
I can't believe you just saved my life!
I can't believe you just drove my car into Jimmy Lang! Alan drives, his eyes as big as saucers.
He's gonna be really upset!
Yeah, I was just thinking that!
Boss, Boss, you okay?! Jimmy sputters into the dirt, furious.
Find Vick... And kill him.
Now can we call Tracy?
Yeah. It's probably time.
Who wants to make the call? Beat. Then Vick reaches for his nose, odd man out. Stu and Alan immediately reach for their noses, too. It's close.
That was you!
What?! No! I beat you by a mile!
Vick, who won?!
Well, I'll be damned... Vick grabs the bottle of Patron, takes a long swig. Beat.
I still can't believe Stu banged my sister. Vick hands the bottle to Alan, gets out, and makes for the pay phone...
Any word from Doug? The way he spits out "Doug" tells us all we need to know about how Mr. Turner feels about his future son-in-law.
No, but I'm sure he's-- Just then, Tracy's CELL PHONE rings. She quickly answers it.
Hello?
In the desert, on the pay phone, looking through his busted aviators into the rising sun.
Tracy, it's Vick.
Hey Vick!
Listen, honey...The bachelor party got a little out of control and, well...we lost Doug.
 What?! But we're getting married in like four hours!
Yeah, that's not gonna happen...
Look, I'm really sorry, Trace. This is all my fault--
What the--?! Alan gets on the phone with Tracy, his heart racing.
Tracy, it's Alan! Hey, Vick is just joking around! We've got Doug right here! Vick looks like: what?!
I know, Vick is such a prick! We'll see you at the wedding! Bye! Alan hangs up and races back to the car. Vick follows.
What are you doing?
I know where Doug is!
Remember when we saw Doug's bed impaled on the griffin thing?!
Yeah, we threw it out the window.
No: the windows don't open, remember?!
So how did--?
I don't get it.
And that's why we've been seeing Doug's clothes all over Vegas! He was trying to signal someone!
I don't believe it...
I-I still don't get it--
And it totally jives with the timeline, right?! We brought Doug back to the hotel at 5:00, he was passed out...
It's so obvious!
Not...to me...so much?
How'd you figure it out?!
The Patron, man! It reminded me of our first drink of the night!
Honestly, dude, you're a genius.
He's on the roof! Stu looks confused, the roof?
After Doug passed out, we must've taken him up there in his bed as a prank, so he'd wake up on the roof or whatever? Then we forgot him.
And all day he's been throwing his crap off the roof, trying to signal someone to get him down!
You think he's still up there?!
Only one way to find out...
And he looks furious. The guys run to him, overjoyed!
Oh my god, I'm so glad you're okay!
Don't...even...talk to me. The guys stop short.
Okay, no, that's cool!
Yeah, you have every right to be upset! We validate your anger!
Why'd you do it, sweet Atashir?! Why did you betray us?!
Because they paid me. And also because you're kind of racist.
Fair enough! See you next time, you beautiful Judas! They blow out of the hotel...
No flights to LA with empty seats!
Well, we can't drive! It's 350 miles to LA and the wedding starts at 10, which is in--
 --three hours! Beat. Then Vick, Stu and Alan exchange a look...a smile slowly creeps across their faces.
Look, Doug, I think I speak for everyone in the car when I say I'm really sorry about locking you on the roof of the hotel.
You gotta admit, it's a pretty funny prank... I mean, up until the part when we forgot all about you. Doug just stares out at the desert in stony silence.
He's still not talking to us.
Totally understandable, man. Whenever you're ready...
I'm sorry, honey, but I think you need to seriously consider that Doug might not be coming... Tracy stops short, speechless.
Some men just aren't cut out for this kind of commitment. I'm so sorry that this is how you had to find out-- Just then, we hear a car SQUEALING UP outside...
Sorry, Mapquest took us a crazy route. We ready to do this thing? The bridesmaids sit up, stunned.
She looks beautiful, man.
That's cool. I get it.
reaches the altar, then turns to her dad. His face is a mess of emotions. They hug.
I love you, Daddy.
I love you too, pumpkin. Tracy's Dad shoots Doug a nasty look before taking his seat in the first row. Then Tracy approaches Doug at the altar, and whispers to him, angry, hurt:
Where were you? And why are you pink?
It's a long story. All I can say is I'm so sorry. And I promise, for as long as we're married, I will never ever put you through something like this again.  Can... Can you forgive me? Tracy studies his face, searching... All the guests wait with bated breath... The groomsmen wince, come on come on come on... Then, unable to be mad at Doug, Tracy smiles and kisses him. He kisses her back. The guests all SIGH in relief. The groomsmen exhale, whew. Vick and Alan covertly knock fists. The Minister clears his throat.
We, um, we traditionally wait til the end for the kiss...? But Doug and Tracy just keep on kissing...
We did it, fellahs. We pulled it off.
I never had a doubt. They LAUGH. Alan smiles, more relaxed than we've ever seen him. They sip champagne and watch Doug and Tracy enjoy their first dance on the dance floor.
You think Doug's ever going to talk to us again?
Give him time.
Yeah. Like a decade or two-- Then Stu sees someone approaching over Alan's shoulder.
Uh-oh. The guys all look over to see
Alan's girlfriend of 14 years, bearing down on them, irate.
Hey Beck--!
Shut up, Vick! Alan, where the hell have you been?! I've been calling and calling! What, you don't answer your phone anymore?!
I-I'm so sorry, I can explain-- Then there's a WOMAN'S VOICE behind them.
Alan? They all turn to see
standing behind them in a very sexy, very elegant dress, her hair back. She cleans up nicely. Alan swallows, whoa.
This just got complicated...
Jennifer? Chastity smiles that he called her by her real name.
I-I know I wasn't invited, but I just had to return this... She hands Alan his GRANDMOTHER'S HOLOCAUST RING. Becky watches on, stunned.
Okay: who the hell is this chick, and why the hell does she have your Grandmother's wedding ring?! Alan looks back and forth between Becky and Chastity... It's the moment of truth. The fork in life's road...
Talk, you moron! Jesus, you're just like your mother! Talk! Who's the ho wearing my ring?! And in that moment, it all becomes so clear. Alan turns:
She's my wife. Becky's jaw drops. Chastity smiles slightly. Stu and Vick grin, oh shit!
We don't make each other happy anymore, Beck. And we can keep not making each other happy for another 14 years -- hell, maybe even another 50 years -- but let's not. Let's find people who make our hearts race. Let's be excited and fun and alive again... Alan looks at Becky, sincere, honest. Beat.
Are you fucking kidding me? Alan shakes his head, sadly, no.
I'm sorry, Beck. I really am.  Can I buy you a free drink? Chastity smiles, takes his arm, and they walk off together towards the bar.
We're not...actually...still married, are we?
Let's start with dinner, and see where it goes...?
 I'd like that.
Alan! Alan Steven Mervish, get back here this second!  Don't you walk away from me, you stupid little clown! I own you! GET
Daddy?! Stu turns to see his TWO ANGELIC DAUGHTERS in sundresses racing through the crowd towards him! They leap into his arms, so excited to see him! He scoops them both up.
Oh, I missed you guys so much!
We missed you too, daddy!
You're the best dad ever! Beat. And then Stu just starts BAWLING. Tears everywhere. His lovely wife ERIN appears, harried, a diaper bag over her shoulder, and sees him crying. She rolls her eyes.
Jesus, are you still drunk? Stu shakes his head, no, and keeps SOBBING as he pulls her into a big family hug...
Okay, okay, I'll go with you. Just...don't ruin the wedding. Then JIMMY LANG enters the bathroom on RED CRUTCHES.
I really didn't want it to end like this, Vick. Vick nods, resigned, and starts towards him. Then Jimmy extends his hand for Vick to shake.
Good luck.
 Um, what...?
Your friend Alan just paid your marker. Took out a second mortgage on his house. The full 200 grand, plus medical expenses, which I thought was a classy touch. Vick looks blown away.
Without our friends, we are nothing, Vick. Remember that. The three injured mobsters exit. Vick remains standing there, overwhelmed, his life literally saved...
I will pay you back, you know.
Damn straight you will! They all LAUGH.
Well, Alan married a stripper, Stu went gay, and I learned a very important life lesson from an obese hoodlum.
We'll tell you the whole story when you get back from your honeymoon.
We really are sorry, man. Doug nods, I know. Vick raises his cocktail.
To Doug and Tracy.
To Doug and Tracy.
To Doug and Tracy.
To me and Tracy -- and to being here, with my three former best friends in the world... The guys LAUGH.
There's nowhere else I'd rather be right now. They nod, heartfelt, hear-hear.
That said, let's not get too stupid tonight, okay? I'm going on my honeymoon in 24 hours... The guys all nod reassuringly.
No, no. / We'll be good. / Totally, dude. The guys exchange a sly smile, CLINK glasses, then
