She reaches out and gently pets the animals frightened face. She runs her hand down along its neck, in towards the wound.
I just missed your heart. She stands and pulls out an old pistol from her waist holster. She fires two shots directly at CAMERA.
You're dead. Right now. I've killed you. HANNA spins spraying deer-blood on to the snow and brings her fist right to ERIK's face. He blocks and thumps an open palm on to HANNA's shoulder sending her sprawling into the snow. She leaps to her feet, as ERIK aims a kick at her head. She dodges, punches below his knee cap, and goes for her pistol. ERIK slaps the hand away.
Use your hands! She goes for the gun again and again he stops her. He moves in tight, pulling the gun from its holster and tossing it deep into the forest. HANNA clips ERIK'S temple sending him to the ground. She wraps her arms around his neck preparing to snap... ... but she can't. He throws her over his shoulder into a pile of snow. ERIK stands and wipes the snow from his pants. His face shows a touch of frustration. He plods into the forest.
Drag it back yourself. HANNA drags herself to the deer's side. She stares at its dead face.
HANNA is making a fire using a bow drill. The friction of the drill produces an ember which HANNA carefully transfers to some dried leaves.
HANNA swirls a spoon around in a dish of stew. ERIK takes a mouthful, watches HANNA not eating.
What's wrong? Are you hurt? She keeps swirling her spoon.
You were half asleep.
I'll do better next time.
German.
(In German w/ English
I'll do better next time.
Italian.
(In Italian w/ English
I'll do better next time.
Spanish. HANNA studies her food and slowly takes a spoonful.
(In Spanish w/ English
Did you really want me to snap your neck? He looks at her - drops the quiz.
How much did you pull off the deer?
A hundred and twenty with scraps.
About 200 pounds in total? HANNA nods.
That explains it.
What?
How you beat me. You're getting strong. HANNA almost blushes. ERIK stands to put his bowl away.
(In Spanish w/ English
I'm glad you didn't snap my neck.
The Great Blue Whale is the largest animal to have ever existed. A blue whale's tongue weighs over two and a half tons and its mouth is large enough to hold 90 tons of food and water.
How much is that?
It's bigger than the cabin. Its heart weighs thirteen hundred pounds and a male has seven gallons of testicles. HANNA smirks.
The Blue Whale's "music" can be heard for over 500 miles. He shuts the book.
Time for sleep.
Good night. He stands by her bed looking down at her.
Did you forget something?
No. ERIK takes HANNA'S gun out of his pocket and puts it on the table next to her bed.
Sorry.
Good night. He walks to the door. HANNA stops him with a question.
What's music like?
It's difficult to explain.
Try. He opens the encyclopedia again, leafs through the pages and reads.
But how does it feel? Erik is not equipped to answer such esoteric questions.
Good. It feels good. It's, uh, nice.
Tell me properly. Can you play music?
Your mother could. She used to sing very well.
I'd like to hear it for myself.
You will soon enough.
How soon? Erik looks away from her questioning eyes.
When you're ready.
I'm ready. I'm ready already. They look at each other- he weighs it up.
Just go to sleep now. I'll see you in the morning.
She rolls and fires. She reloads. And fires. ERIK watching.
Again. They reset. She repeats the motion. Hand. Knee. Elbow. Fist.
Again. Hand. Knee. Elbow. Fist. She's getting faster. Her strikes are solid.
I live in Leipzig. German city. Population 0.7 Million people. We live at Number 7 Weissingerplatz. I go to school at the Klaus Kohle Gymnasium and my best friends are Rudi Gunter and Clara Schliess. I like literature and sport, in particular tennis and athletics. I have a dog called Trudi.
Don't give up! Don't give up! HANNA's arms flails as she fights against the stream and she screams in pain. She is grabbed under by the undertow and is pulled downwards. For a second she is underwater and in darkness but ERIK's hand pulls her back up and she breaks the surface with a gasp of relief.
I didn't need your help.
I'm ready now.
Maybe. ERIK relaxes. It's a false beat. He lunges again at her, really violently. He seems to be really trying to hurt her. But HANNA has reached under her mattress and there is a flint knife - in an instant it is at ERIK's neck. She pricks his neck slightly. It bleeds just slightly. Stillness and silence. HANNA breathless, angry.
You didn't tell me you had a knife.
You told me to think for myself. Isn't that what you want? She is angry for the first time. ERIK does not answer. Just stares at her.
I want to see things. I can't stay here forever.
One, two, three, four...
...five, six, seven, eight...
...nine, ten. After 10 paces, ERIK makes a 90 degree turn and enters the tree line. The snow and mud crunch under his boots. We continue to inter-cut the following with more close-ups of HANNA training: climbing, fighting, chin-ups, shooting. All the while we continue to hear ERIK counting out his paces. After 40 paces, with the cabin light distant, ERIK falls to his knees. He unsheathes a large knife and jams it into the frozen earth.
The fox approaches gingerly, delicately.
Hello little foxy... foxy loxy... come on... come and share my breakfast. The fox comes to her and nervously accepts the scrap, withdrawing a few feet to eat it. HANNA shuffles forward carefully and gently pats the snow fox - it is only a cub.
Suddenly the snow fox freezes, pricks up its ears, looks up, HANNA looks up too. An aeroplane is approaching overhead. The fox darts back into the undergrowth as the roar of the plane reverberates through the forest. HANNA jumps to her feet and with incredible speed and dexterity climbs to the very top of a near by tree. The plane roars over her head and disappears over the snowy wilderness, oblivious to HANNA'S tiny presence. It's only now that we see the full extent of HANNA'S isolation.
Did you see it? Wasn't it beautiful, like thunder. I had to stick my fingers in my ears it was so loud. Did you hear it? She stops, sensing ERIK'S mood.
What's wrong? Sitting in front of ERIK is a metal case, caked with frozen dirt. ERIK pops open the case. Inside a tangle of technology. HANNA looks at the case, mesmerized.
What does it do?
It tells Marissa Wiegler where we are. He looks at her, a hint of a challenge.
When you want to leave here all you have to do is flip that switch. She approaches the box and places a single finger on the small red switch.
But once it's done, there'll be no going back. She'll never give up until you're dead, or she is. You understand? I wont be there to hold your hand. So be sure. Be sure it's what you really want.
You're not scaring me. He looks at her disbelievingly. She shakes her head in protest, but simultaneously moves away from the switch. He softens towards her.
It's here. There's no rush. Take your time. HANNA turns her back on the box, but can't help taking another look at it over her shoulder.
Laika, a mongrel dog from the streets of Moscow, was the first animal to orbit the Earth. She was launched into outer space on the third of November, 1957. Scientists believed humans would be unable to survive conditions of outer space, so flights by animals were viewed as an experimental precursor to human missions. Her rocket was not designed to be retrievable, and Laika had always been intended to die.
That's sad. ERIK awkwardly turns the page to change subject.
When a star collapses the supernova explosion is 10 billion times brighter than other stars. HANNA shuts her eyes and tries to imagine how bright that might be.
Will you hunt with me? Hanna is sweeping the ground.
If you want.
It's up to you.
Me?
Yes. HANNA eyes the box sitting open, it's waiting for her.
I'll stay.
Fine. ERIK leaves abruptly. HANNA continues to sweep the ground, her movements bring her closer to the metal box. She stops sweeping and looks at the box. She turns and walks out of the cabin.
 Marissa Wiegler.
HANNA approaches the metal box and slowly reaches out her hand.
She walks into her ensuite bathroom and looks at herself in the mirror. She collects her toothbrush and bares her teeth in a snarl as she brushes them. Her gums bleed a little.
You were lucky to grab that deer. There was nothing out there today. ERIK looks over at the meal HANNA is preparing.
Smells good. He wraps an arm around her shoulder. They don't hug much and it shows. HANNA is almost defensive and tense. And then the hug is over.
Her young male PA and TECH ONE are already waiting for her.
Ma'am. We've had a signal reported by Interpol. We think it's Eric Heller. An unusual expression of shock on MARISSA'S face.
Well I'll be.
It seems he's in Sweden. Jokkmokk. 40 miles out.
What the fuck is he doing there?
Living in the middle of nowhere, like the frigging Una Bomber.
The son of a bitch. Sweden? Sweden?! The PA hands her a coffee and she hands him some files.
Apparently he turned on his locator.
He's not an idiot.
I know... I mean I believe so. But that's what happened.
After 14 years in Jokkmokk, maybe he'd rather go to prison.
Eric Heller. From the Czech Republic. I recruited him in 1991 when they were all joining the Velvet Revolution and sticking it to the commies ERIK, now clean shaven, opens a wooden case in the corner of the room and takes out an old folded three piece suit and rolled shirt.
He couldn't wait to kiss some yankee butt and make some bucks doing our dirty work. ERIK awkwardly begins to change into the suit.
Trouble was he had his own way of doing things. Kinda paranoid. WALT fires up a computer screen and logs on. He uses an access code. This takes him to a new file. He enters the tracking device number. A name comes up. ERIK HELLER. He clicks on a link. HELLER's face pops on to the screen.
Not a team player. Not a joiner. He became increasingly isolated and disturbed. Kept mouthing off about classified programmes. WALT clicks on a link to a newspaper article which comes on to the screen: The headline: POLICE HUNT FOR MURDER SUSPECT. A picture of Heller in the article and a smashed car on a rural road. The two men stare at his face.
I kept warning and he kept getting worse. In the summer of 1995 he took his girlfriend, Johanna Zadek, on a trip to the Baltic coast and blew her head off. WALT hits a new link: A still of the same young woman as the photo HANNA was previously looking at in her bedroom. Her name printed below it: JOHANNA ZADEK.
Never heard from him again.
Anybody know why?
What do you want us to do?
Bring him in.
What do you mean? Call the police,
- Walt. This is exactly the kind of shit we can't have out there anymore. He was one of ours, we trained him. He kills some other poor woman and it's a cluster fuck.
Tell it to Interpol. Let them pick him up. Try him for murder.
He's right. This has nothing to do with us. I don't understand.
You don't have to. I'm making the call. BOB and WALT exchange a look.
Thank you, Gentlemen. That'll be all. The video screen flickers off, people take their files and start to leave. MARISSA WIEGLER stands in the darkness.
Hanna... HANNA looks up, still trying to hide her fear.
Tell me again?
Marissa Weigler.
Then?
Postcard.
Then?
What?
The address where we meet.
Wilhelm Grimm's house. Stephanstrasse 260. 10559, Berlin. Germany. ERIK moves a strand of hair from HANNA'S forehead and looks at her with paternal care.
Good night my sweet girl. He stands and quietly goes to the door when her voice stops him.
Father... He turns to look at her, both their eyes full of trepidation.
You can do this. You're ready. Just remember what I've taught you. She smiles reassuringly at him.
I'll see you there.
Is this guy one of ours?
She silently springs to her feet and moves to the front of the cabin. She looks out and sees shadows moving among the trees. She turns and presses herself against the wall.
What is it?
Ma'am, this is Lewis. MARISSA affects a business as usual tone.
Go ahead.
The target escaped.
How did that happen?
We're thinking maybe he got away in the snow, in the thick snow, or... But he's in the wind and I have two men down.
Ma'am. There's more. They found a child, his daughter. MARISSA turns pale.
She hasn't moved since we brought her in.
Has anyone talked to her?
They want a psych evaluation before they interrogate.
Hello Hanna. Hanna lies motionless.
My name is Dr. Burton. Would you like to talk to me? BURTON'S voice has been trained to engender a state of peace and security. HANNA sits up and hangs her legs off the side of the cot.
I was told by my father to gain the upper hand.
Really. Interesting. What else did your father tell you?
Where am I?
You're in holding.
I see.
This must all be very strange for you. You've been in the forest a long time. But I want you to know no one's going to hurt you. We just want to talk to you about your father. HANNA seems to be staring up at the ceiling.
Hanna? He follows her eye-line to the CCTV camera above them.
Is that a camera?
Ah, yes, that's a camera. To keep a record.
Camera obscura, it's Latin for "dark chamber".
Plug the CCTV through to Langley. Extension 247. MONITOR presses some buttons as LEWIS calls on his phone and speaks into it.
You should have visual on the psych evaluation now.
It was first described by the Arabic scientist Ibn Alhazen in the year 1021.
What's she saying?
Gobbledygook.
Can I get you something? What do you like? Music? Magazines? Just say. Anything at all.
I want to speak to Marissa Wiegler.
Did you hear that? MARISSA pauses before she answers.
Tell her I'll be there tonight.
But...
Just do it.
My name is Marissa Wiegler. You wanted to speak to me? HANNA turns to look. It is a completely different woman, dressed in similar clothes to MARISSA but not her.
 You can wait outside. The guards exit and the door slams shut behind them.
You should have visual.
Where am I?
You're in a safe place. Let's talk about your father. You must love him very much.
Where did you meet him? The false MARISSA pauses.
Tell her it was by a news kiosk in Alexanderplatz, East Berlin. Say it was raining.
At a news kiosk. Alexanderplatz. In the rain. She smiles reassuringly. HANNA nods, looking at FALSE
Lewis.
Sir we need to talk to you. We've run tests on the girl. His voice sounds urgent, concerned. But Marissa has interrupted.
What tests? As the argument continues, we see and hear on the screen the FALSE MARISSA continuing to talk to HANNA.
Do you know where your father is? In the OBS room LEWIS, half watching the screen, explains to MARISSA on intercom.
Standard DNA and meds.
Send the results straight to me. On the screen FALSE MARISSA is talking to HANNA.
Did he tell you where he was going? We're all worried about him. On the CCTV Hanna looks at the FALSE MARISSA. She begins to cry, holds out her arms to be held.
Sir look. LEWIS looks at HANNA.
It's OK. It's OK. HANNA coils her thin arms around the FALSE MARISSA'S neck, clinging to her like a monkey. The FALSE MARISSA looks up to the security camera, slightly concerned. Hanna wriggles in her arms, to get a better grip...
You want me to give her something?
I think it might be necessary.
Get her out of there.
Open up. The first guard opens HANNA'S door.
Abort. I repeat. Abort.
Jee-sus wept! On another screen LEWIS watches as the other Guard tries to drag the metal door shut. He hits a fleshy door jam - Burton. Hanna is upon him. Two shots.
She's a child for Christsake!
This is Sanders. I'm checking Zone eleven. The FEMALE GUARD radios off, then enters. She senses something. POV SANDERS - The DNA laboratory suddenly seems empty. The buzz of the lab's lighting and the whir of the air- pressurizes are the only sounds as the GUARD looks around. Then the GUARD hears a rustling from behind her and tenses up. She turns around but HANNA has vanished into thin air, there is silence.
You think she's out?
She can't get out. LEWIS picks up an internal telephone.
473 are you receiving me? Can you confirm your position. Subject has escaped.
Can you confirm your position 473? Banks? Banks can you hear me?
I'm at a perimeter opening at the far east wing. Something's not quite right... He doesn't notice but the lid is open now and the air- conditioning duct is empty.
As the Jeep moves off we see HANNA is clinging to the axle, hanging upside down underneath. Her face is pressed to the oily metal, her back just an inch from the desert floor flashing beneath her. The jeeps now take a track along the edge of a steep dune. HANNA takes her chance and lets go of her grip. She clenches her eyes shut as the jeep passes over her. As soon as the jeeps clears she rolls herself over the edge of the dune. HANNA rolls down the sand dune at speed until finally she slows and stops. She lies still and shocked by the quiet as the Jeep disappears into the distance. Then she sits up and looks around herself. She has no conception of this landscape, no idea where she might be.
Then the back door opens on the other side. A man, a younger ERIK HELLER crawls out. He is holding a two year old child in his hands. The child's coat is covered in blood. MARISSA stares at the shocked child and takes the rifle to her eye to shoot again. As she does, ERIK senses her movement and throws himself to the ground. Through the rifle viewfinder we see just a glimpse of ERIK and the red glare of the coat covered in blood, ERIK HELLER grabbing the child and sprinting for the forest, MARISSA taking aim at HELLER, and then firing as HELLER dives into the forest.
MARISSA puts on a pair of rubber kitchen gloves and sets fire to the file in the sink. When it's all burnt up she switches on the garbage disposal and pushes the ashen remains down the gurgler with a dish mop.
Hello. HANNA stares at her, then abruptly turns to walk in opposite direction until she sees another convoy of US military trucks in the distance.
All right? HANNA turns back. Looks at SOPHIE. Like a wary animal.
Don't you speak English? HANNA is unsure how to speak to this strange person.
That can't be helped. You look terrible. At that moment SOPHIE'S brother, MILES, eight years old, rises over the dune and stands by SOPHIE'S side. In his hand is a stills camera, not digital, film. MILES stares at HANNA while talking to SOPHIE.
Who's she?
I don't know. I just found her.
What's her name?
She can't talk.
Hanna.
She talked.
I live in Leipzig. German city. Population 0.7 Million people. We live at Number 7 Weissingerplatz. I go to school at the Klaus Kohle Gymnasium and my best friends are Rudi Gunter and Clara Schliess. I like literature and sport, in particular tennis and athletics.
I also have a dog called Trudi.
We had a dog called Vincent, but he went mad and died.
I'm Sophie and this is my brother, Shit for Brains. From over the dune comes the voice of SOPHIE and MILES'S mother, RACHEL LYALL.
Come on, Sophie! We'll miss the light. MILES raises his camera to his eye and snaps a picture of
Bye.
See you. SOPHIE takes one more puzzled look at HANNA, then turns and disappears over the sand dune. HANNA rises to the top of the dune. SOPHIE turns back to
Do you need a lift somewhere?
No. I prefer to walk.
Suit yourself.
She's in the desert east of Essouiara.
Have you got the DNA results?
We can't find them. It's possible she has them on her. Marissa takes that in.
Okay. I want you to focus on Erik Heller.
Why? A sweet-faced male AIR STEWARD hovers over MARISSA.
Excuse Madame, airline regulations state that -
I'm in conference.
All the same -
Back off, honey. I'm busy. MARISSA'S response is so fierce that the AIR STEWARD instinctively does as he's told.
You know this isn't going to go away.
I'm dealing with it Lewis.
Okay but I just want you to admit - my Lord - how did she know to ask for you? She hangs up.
HANNA sees MILES running through the crowds carrying a bag of cherries. She follows him a little way, onto a busy street with hotels and cheap jewellery stores. He runs up the steps and enters a small mid-range hotel. HANNA looks up at the hotel, then enters.
Where's your family?
Are you Arab?
I'm Moroccan.
Morocco. Capital city Rabat. Places of interest. Marrakesh. Essouaira. Religion Islam. Language Arabic (in Arabic w/ English
I like Arabic very much. It's like Japanese. It's big. The HOTEL OWNER nearly spits out his biscuit in shock.
(in Arabic w/ English
You speak Arabic?
(in Arabic w/ English
Yes, of course.
(in Arabic w/ English
Where's your family?
(in Arabic w/ English
I need a room for one night. Can you help? I don't have any money.
It's the best we've got.
Thank you. HANNA stares at the light switch.
Do you have one of these in every room?
Of course. All mod cons.
It's electricity? The HOTEL OWNER looks at HANNA askance.
Yes.
I know a little bit about electricity. They say Edison discovered it, or was it Franklin?
Some American, I'm sure. He picks up an electric kettle.
Electric kettle for the English - they like to make their own tea. He switches it on, Hanna stares as it heats up noisily. He goes to a small wall mounted TV, switches it on for her, a fuzzy, terrible picture of an Arabic TV show. HANNA is fascinated, doesn't take her eyes off the TV as she sits on the edge of the bed.
What is it?
It's the best we can do. She stares at the picture, bemused.
Where do you come from? Distracted, HANNA is caught off guard.
The forest. The HOTEL OWNER smiles, himself a little puzzled by this strange encounter, and leaves. She just sits there staring at the TV as it's volume seems to increase. Meanwhile the electric kettle begins to boil. Steam pours from its spout and the whole contraption starts to rattle violently.
A little way down the corridor MILES and SOPHIE emerge from their bedroom.
Look. It's that girl. He nudges SOPHIE. HANNA eyes them suspiciously.
Hey you made it.
Hey, again.
Did you walk here?
She looks different.
Do you want to hang with us?
Are you hungry?
Miles is always hungry.
I'm thirsty.
The Swedish borders are sealed. I have Swedish, Norwegian and Danish border patrols on high alert and Interpol have briefed the police.
I don't want any bad news Lewis. Neither of us can afford a fuck up. MARISSA hangs up. She enters a converted car park which is now a lap dancing bar. It's early in the day and the patrons are as scarce as the clothes on the dancers. At the far end of the room is the reason Marissa is there, MICHAEL ISAACS. Mid fifties. Rumpled suit, bleary, unshaven and drinking a scotch. ISAACS smiles coldly at MARISSA.
I didn't think they let women in here.
They let them in, they just don't let them get dressed. He smiles, drinks, she eyes the scotch.
Still drinking on the job. You haven't changed.
You have.
Adapt or die.
You want a drink?
I'll wait until I really need one. He grins and drinks. She sits, with a sigh, looks him in the eye.
Erik Heller's still alive. ISAACS glances up from his drink.
You don't say.
There's more. MARISSA passes him a newspaper. He opens it. Hidden inside is a picture of Hanna. He looks it over, surprised.
Wow. All grown up.
He did a good job.
Did she turn out like you hoped?
She just tried to kill me.
Isn't it always the way?
The fuck does that mean?
You bring them into this world, teach them how to kill and maim... and then they turn against you.
I didn't teach her.
No, it's better than that. You bred her from a test tube. MARISSA turns to the BARMAN and signals for a round of the scotches, Two of these...
Here's the problem: She thinks we killed her mother. He smiles wryly.
Just get her sectioned or something.
Sure, just as soon as she's done breaking peoples necks. You get her sectioned, if you can catch her. The drinks arrive, MARISSA drinks.
Right now she's in Morocco but she'll be trying to get out of the country. Find her and bring her to me. Quietly.
I'll need funds. MARISSA slides an envelope of bills across the table.
Don't spend it all on candy. She glances meaningfully at the STRIPPERS, who have been eyeing up ISAACS as a potential mark. ISAACS looks at the money. When he looks back up MARISSA is already walking out the door.
She's beautiful. I wish I had a body like hers. She's really cool too. She's married to a footballer and really loves him -
- only the papers found out he was shagging like loads of other girls so she went and got all successful in her own right and now does a make-over show where she turns right dogs into real babes. I could do you a make-over if you'd like?
Perhaps Hanna doesn't want a make- over, sweetie. SOPHIE ignores RACHEL and addresses all her responses to
Rachel doesn't believe in making the best of yourself.
No Sophie, I just don't believe fourteen year-old girls should be dressing to look like porn stars. It objectifies them.
I don't think so.
Good. Keep it that way.
That's SOOO gross.
Do you often travel on your own, Hanna?
My father encourages me to be independent.
And your mother?
She's dead.
Oh, I'm sorry.
Nice one, Dad.
People die.
What did she die of?
Three bullets.
Oh. God. How terrible. SOPHIE is weirdly impressed.
Three pounds of goose fat if you please.
Why do we always have to get up so early?
If you were a Berber shepherd -
- I'm not a shepherd. Jesus.
We have to be at the port by eight tomorrow so I want you to pack now...
I'm too sleepy. HANNA listens anxiously, knowing she needs to go with them to be safe. She arrives at her door.
Good night. But the family are too wrapped up in their discussion to notice her.
No, you're not. Come on we'll do it together. HANNA enters her room. SOPHIE turns at the sound of HANNA'S door closing.
She's weird. Is it me, or is that girl weird?
HANNA stares at the words. Interfering sequence present. Abnormal. HANNA looks at the photo of herself and those words.
What does it mean? She looks up at the TV and sees footage of millions of Muslim worshipers circling the Kaaba at Mecca. The sheer mass of humanity stuns her. HANNA turns up the volume and hears the call to prayer. She listens in wonder to her first experience of music.
Then HELLER starts to cover his body in the goose fat he bought in the butcher's. He stares across the water towards DENMARK in the distance.
... Somebody broke the sun roof. I said somebody broke the sun roof. It won't close...
Call the rental.
I hope its insured.
SEB parks the van with some difficulty, complaining all the while.
Typical. Get me back to the European Union.
Don't be rude. They get out, taking with them anything they might need - knapsacks, computer games, suit cases. They head off towards the stairs up to the decks, passing ISAACS on their way. ISAACS searches between the cars and trucks. He passes the back of the FAMILY'S van as the camera pushes in on its back door. The handle is being JIGGLED FROM INSIDE.
She climbs over the seats and climbs into the front cabin, the driver's seat. She finds a lock on the door and unlocks. She climbs out.
What has got into you? Oh my God, look over there. They all look where she is pointing - at HANNA.
It's her.
You think she... you don't think she... Rachel, the sunroof?
You think we should say something?
What's there to say?
Maybe she's in trouble.
Maybe she's a hooker. Or a terrorist. There's a lot of them in Germany.
Hookers or terrorists?
I'll go over.
Rachel, walk away. I'm insisting here. I'm putting my foot down... RACHEL heads off towards HANNA, SOPHIE follows.
SOPHIE and RACHEL approach HANNA and move to positions either side of her.
All right?
Did you know that 71 percent of the earths surface is covered in water?
My father thinks you're a stowaway. He thinks you broke our sunroof too, which puts you in deep shit.
Sophie just - I'll handle this.
I really think it might help if you told us the, you know, the truth and all that. Have you run away from somewhere?
Are you okay?
I'm fine.
I'm worried about you.
She said she's fine.
You have to understand this really is a problem for us.
You know what? Why don't I stay here with her and you go off and be with dad? He's looking kind of tense.
RACHEL rejoins SEB and MILES.
Has she even got a passport?!
I don't think I handled that very well.
How do you know she's not some kind of illegal immigrant?
A CHILD knocks into ISAACS and the few photocopied photographs he has of HANNA fall from his pocket and are blown along the deck. ISAACS scrambles to pick-up the photocopies.
Would you like some? HANNA looks curiously at the ice-cream.
Please. She tries it.
It tastes like music.
You're so weird, aren't you? Did you have a fight with your dad or something?
Yes.
Was it bad?
No. I won. HANNA studies the sea.
Can you help me get home? At that moment one of ISAACS photocopied pictures of HANNA rolls across the deck and catches on the railings. HANNA looks down at it, recognizes herself and quickly pockets it. She looks across the deck, too many people, she shouldn't have let herself be so exposed.
You could do me a make-over if you like?
You're pretty. You know that?
Am I?
Of course you are. You've got pretty eyes and you're tall. I always wanted to be tall. If I were a man I might fancy you. She laughs. HANNA responds seriously.
I'm not a man. SOPHIE laughs even more. The door swings open and SEB is standing there with RACHEL, nervous but determined.
Okay, here's the deal. We're going to find a way to get you home just as soon as we get off this crate. But since you don't have a passport with you right now, we're just going to have to be a bit gorilla. Okay?
We passionately believe it's the right thing to do. They don't look sure at all, but SOPHIE puts her arm round HANNA and HANNA returns the gesture, everybody slightly embarrassed.
RACHEL is at the drivers wheel while SEB is in the back stripping the cushions from the bench seats to prepare a place for HANNA to hide. HANNA waits, breath bated, her arm round SOPHIE's shoulders. On the far side she sees ISAACS enter the deck. She watches him carefully and decides he must be looking for her. She ducks down a little further. RACHEL, looking nervous, turns to HANNA.
You okay honey?
Yes yes I'm ready! ISAACS is getting closer, walking between the cars. The ferry gates are open and the noise subsides. SEB discovers the crowbar, examines it.
Oh Jesus. HANNA grabs it and sticks it back in the box, helps SEB fling cushions aside and gets into the compartment.
Here goes nothing. He shuts the bench seat over HANNA and replaces the cushions just as ISAACS passes the van, sniffing around. SEB gets out of the back and walks around to the front. He passes ISAACS on his way round.
Excuse me. Sir? ISAACS gets out of the way and SEB gets into the front passenger's seat. RACHEL starts the engine, checks her mirrors. SEB eyes ISAACS with some paranoia - although he has no idea who he is.
He stops and turns towards the police car. TWO POLICEMEN get out of the car and approach ERIK. He watches them very carefully.
Hills are emerging and the land is turning green in the gold evening light. HANNA watches RACHEL unscrew the cap of a water bottle and brings it to SEB'S mouth while he drives. SEB laughs as a little water spills down his front. SOPHIE is listening to an iPOD. HANNA looks at her. SOPHIE takes one earphone out of her own ear and puts it in HANNA's.
Sir, I'll be as brief as I can, we have a situation here...
The Danish authorities are taking this very seriously. They've doubled the number of officers on the ground. We've sent up spotter planes over the channel.
They're appealing for witnesses through the local media... MARISSA nods and looks out at the roiling grey sea. The reality of ERIK'S determination unnerving her.
You think he really swam it? MARISSA knows he did. She calls over her shoulder as she walks away.
Keep me posted.
Guten tag.
Guten Morgen.
Wie geht es Ihnen?
Gutm und Ihnen?
Jah, gut, gut... A FRENCH CAMPER nods at them.
Bonjour. Ca va?
Ca va. Oui. Bien... HANNA starts efficiently helping SEB erect the children's tent. He's watches impressed as HANNA expertly ties complicated knots. RACHEL and MILES start blowing up two inflatable mattresses.
Maybe we could all go for a walk when we've put the tent up.
No thanks. HANNA looks off to the tree line. In the distance she spots a couple of RABBITS in a pool of sunlight.
One of the boys enters the shop. He looks at HANNA as he passes and smiles. This is FELICIANO. He is handsome. HANNA'S not used to this feeling of being looked at. While the SHOP ASSISTANT serves FELICIANO HANNA pockets a postcard and a book of stamps.
HANNA gets up and posts the card.
I just feel connected when I'm in the countryside. The city stifles me... emotionally, creatively. HANNA'S attention is elsewhere, she's spotted something in the undergrowth.
Anyway, I was very young when I... Seb and I.... He was so impressive. HANNA suddenly runs into the woods.
Hanna?!
It's probably just a bunch of Spanish farmers, mum. We're hardly going to be out all night.
You're not going, Sophie. No way, Jose. HANNA appears from the woods carrying TWO SKINNED RABBITS. She lays them in front of the family.
Food. SOPHIE lets out a shriek of nervous laughter, while SEB and RACHEL are confused as to what the appropriate reaction might be.
That's gross.
I don't know why I'm doing this, you're going to steal all the best men off of me.
What do you mean?
Though quite frankly I don't need more digits than I've got right now. Loads. Loads and loads. HANNA watches herself in the mirror. Mascara, eye liner. She licks the lipstick, puzzled. Almost a woman, but it doesn't look right on her.
It's like paint.
Don't lick it off. SOPHIE finishes HANNA's face, looks at her in the mirror.
You're gorgeous.
I can't walk in this.
You look hot.
Where are we going?
Shhhhh! HANNA uncomfortable with the situation.
I shouldn't take unnecessary risks.
Says who? SOPHIE heads off down the road. HANNA weighs the situation and then quickens her pace to catch up with SOPHIE.
The girls approach a bar and SOPHIE goes to order. She's forced to mime and shout her order over the music.
Vodka. Two.
Water only. No booze. Meanwhile HANNA spots FELICIANO, the handsome SPANISH BOY from the camp site shop, across the dance floor. He is staring at her again. SOPHIE comes back with two bottles of water and hands one to
What do they call this music?
Banging. HANNA stares at the dancers, people losing themselves in it - SOPHIE just grins, starts to move to the music. HANNA smiles awkwardly, tries to copy SOPHIE.
ISAACS enters the rave followed by two of his HENCHMEN. They split up and start to survey the crowd. Over in a secluded corner ISAACS sees a drug deal taking place. ISAACS sidles over to the DEALER and his PUNTER. The PUNTER, thinking ISAACS is probably a cop, makes a hasty getaway.
What you got?
(in Spanish w/ English
Nothing man. That guys just a friend. ISAACS frisks the DEALER, nothing. He turns the DEALER against the wall and checks his socks where he finds a stash of tiny baggies each containing a gram or two of white powder. ISAACS samples the powder and pockets the lot.
(in Spanish w/ English
Hey, you're not police. What the fuck? ISAACS turns as he walks away and puts a finger to his lips.
Ssh.
Back near the bar HANNA and SOPHIE are approached by a couple of scrawny SPANISH BOYS in day-glow tops.
(in Spanish w/ English
Where are you from? The girls just look at each other.
English? American? You like to party? They watch, puzzled, as SOPHIE smiles disinterestedly and leads HANNA away.
Will you teach me to do dancing?
It's easy. HANNA and SOPHIE walk onto the dance floor and begin to dance. HANNA starts by dancing like a five year-old, swinging her arms jerkily and lifting her feet as if walking through a field. But soon her movements become more sophisticated and expressive.
ISAACS is searching through the crowd. He eyes the bodies around him greedily. He takes another dab of the white powder and rubs it into his gums.
Back on the dance floor, HANNA and SOPHIE are dancing. FELICIANO approaches through the crowd followed by a FRIEND. THEY start to circle HANNA and SOPHIE, dancing, insinuating their way in.
He's after you.
How can you tell?
Duh, look at the way he's looking at you. He's gorgeous. FELICIANO'S FRIEND approaches SOPHIE, he's not bad looking either.
What's your name?
Sophie.
Have you come here before?
All the time.
Really? You dance well.
So do you. HANNA and FELICIANO hold eye contact. The music rises and now they're lit only by the intermittent flashes of a strobe light. HANNA and FELICIANO begin to dance around each other, their movements caught in still flashes.
From some distance away ISAACS spots HANNA. He smiles and starts to move through the crowds towards her.
SOPHIE and the FRIEND are kissing. HANNA sees this and laughs. The crowd is jumping. HANNA feels FELICIANO'S hand take hers, she flinches a moment, then lets him draw her towards him. Their eyes still locked. ISAACS is getting closer, his eyes flashing eerily in the strobe lighting. HANNA and FELICIANO are in a world of their own. His fingers trace the lines of her arms, shoulders and neck. He draws her face towards his.
Are we going to kiss now?
Would you like to?
Kissing requires a total of thirty- four facial muscles. Their lips are almost touching.
The most important muscle involved is the orbicularis oris muscle, which is used to pucker the lips - He kisses her. HANNA closes her eyes. ISAACS moves in. FELICIANO becomes more ardent, puts his arms around her waist, she doesn't like it. He tries to open her mouth with his. HANNA snaps. In a few swift moves, HANNA pulls FELICIANO round and throws him to the ground. She falls to his side and, with one knee on his back, she holds his head, about to snap his neck. SOPHIE turns and sees them on the ground. A few of the closest DANCERS also stop dancing and stare. ISAACS backs off, watching from a safe distance.
Hanna! Holy crap...
Please, don't hurt me.
Should I let him go?
As opposed to what? Yes, you should let him go. HANNA leans in to whisper into FELICIANO'S ear.
I'm going to go now.
Sure.
It was nice. And she's gone, pulling SOPHIE away through the crowd. ISAACS jumps into action. But he's lost sight of the girls among the mass of dancing bodies. HANNA and SOPHIE move quickly through the crowds towards the exit.
Oh, my God, Hanna. I thought you were going to kill him. Where d'you learn to do that?
My father taught me. They escape through a hole in the perimeter fence.
An immaculately tidy lounge in a small apartment on the ground floor of a run down East Berlin housing project. A well-dressed woman in her 60's, KATRIN, is sitting alone listening to music on an old casette machine. The door buzzer rings. KATRIN gets up slowly and approaches the door.
Who is it? No reply. KATRIN puts the safety chain across the door and opens it a small amount.
Hello Katrin. KATRIN slams the door shut in fright and double locks it. Fear racing through her veins, she rushes her way through the lounge, knocking furniture as she goes.
You look different in pictures.
Well here I am in the flesh. KATRIN'S mouth twitches with all the imagined conversations she's had with MARISSA.
Has Erik Heller contacted you?
Erik's dead. MARISSA sits calmly in an old arm chair.
Huh, if only.
If he's alive why would he contact me?
That depends on whether you believe he's innocent, or not.
I'm an old woman with a broken
- What's in the past, stays in the past, right?
Something like that.
So why all the years of snooping around and sticking your nose in?
You'd understand if you had kids. She turns her back on MARISSA.
Kid's, they fuck you up, don't they?
Can't you sleep?
No.
Me neither. SOPHIE pauses. Looks at her.
Hanna?
Yes?
Where do you really come from?
Leipzig, I live in Leipzig - SOPHIE looses her patience.
If we're going to be friends you have to be honest with me. Them's the rules. HANNA is taken aback.
Are we friends?
Yes. I like you.
I'd like to have a friend.
I mean you're a freak and everything, but I like you.
I like you too. I really do. But there are things I can't tell you. Do you understand?
Yes... Actually, no, I don't.
There are people that want to harm me. Bad people.
I see.
And they wont stop.
Right.
So for your own safety... HANNA looks into SOPHIE'S eyes.
Can we still be friends?
I don't know. I mean, I don't really know who you are. Do I?
That's just it. Neither do I. She reaches into her bag. Brings out the DNA report. Shows it to Sophie. They read. Interfering Sequence. Abnormal.
What is it?
I think it's about me. DNA is kind of how we're made I think. I mean who we are. They look at it.
What will you do?
I'm going to Berlin. I have to meet my father at the house of Wilhelm Grimm.
As in Grimm's Fairytales?
That's right. SOPHIE sighs at HANNA.
If you say so.
Did I say the wrong thing again? SOPHIE looks at HANNA, sees she's vulnerable. She takes a bracelet off her own wrist. Gives it to her.
Keep this. To remember me. HANNA takes it, puts it on. Moved. Looks at SOPHIE.
It's a friendship bracelet.
Thank you. HANNA stares at the ceiling, looks over at SOPHIE who's starting to sleep. HANNA reaches out and touches her hair. Beside them, separated by a thin piece of fabric, we see that MILES has woken and has been listening in the darkness.
I need a room.
Yes of course.
I stayed here fifteen years ago. It hasn't changed.
We don't much like change here.
Neither do I.
Name?
Olsson. Peter Olsson.
You have some post. She turns and retrieves HANNA'S POSTCARD from the mail rack and hands it to him.
Thank you. ERIK reads: Mission accomplished
Have you heard about the manhunt? A man has killed two coastguards. Everybody is being asked to keep an eye out.
For what exactly?
I don't know. He smiles. She takes a closer look and notices goose fat smeared behind his ear.. and blood on a shirt cuff...
How long until you drop me off?
We should have you there by dinner time. From Lille you can get a train to Berlin. Leipzig's just a few hours further. HANNA and SOPHIE exchange a look.
Wake up. It's them. He jumps in the passenger seat whilst the driver revs the engine. The BMW pulls out in front of an oncoming truck narrowly avoiding a collision.
Keep your distance.
Is that the police? Yes, I don't want to trouble you but I have a new guest you may wish to know about.
He moves off and enters a small bar. The second AGENT immediately follows and from the walkway, the other rushes downstairs to give chase too. HELLER walks through the bar into the toilets, finds a FIRE EXIT and walks out through it.
HELLER leans in and takes from the man's pocket his
HELLER makes a run for it. One of the SPECIAL OPS lets off a shot, the bullet clipping HELLER in the leg. He falters but limps off behind the towering containers.
...they can live at freezing temperatures for up to nine months without food. Imagine that, nine months.
Why do you know so much about fleas?
I read it in my Encyclopaedia. HANNA is looking in the side view mirror. She sees ISAACS BMW and frowns, she's seen it before.
Also, they can jump around 200 times their own body length, which makes them the best jumpers of all known animals except for the froghopper. Now they can really jump. RACHEL makes a turn and HANNA checks the side view mirror again. Yes, the BMW is still there. HANNA becomes anxious.
Everything all right?
I think so. But HANNA'S face betrays her concern.
Mama, I know you're disappointed in me, I know it. I'm so sorry, Mama. But I have found maybe a way to make it better...
I'm in a program now... a program to make babies stronger. In an adjoining bathroom MARISSA, in a pair of cotton pyjamas, is brushing her teeth. Her lips pulled back in a snarl.
An American program. It's very scientific. Important scientific work. Still brushing MARISSA walks through to the tape machine and presses fast forward. Then play -
Erik says he can get these tapes to
- He says I look beautiful. I don't feel beautiful... MARISSA doesn't care, fast forwards. Play -
...I'm not sure if it's true that the baby can hear, but at night I sing. I hope it hears me. MARISSA listens, for some unknown reason to MARISSA this catches her imagination. The phone rings.
What?
Frau Wiegler, this is reception. I have one Erik Heller for you. MARISSA stops dead.
Put him on.
You were supposed to be dead.
So were you.
Well, here we are.
How did you know I was here?
I killed one of your men. Got his cellphone. You've gotten soft.
No, I just grew up. The world's changed since you died.
You got kids?
No, I made choices.
Hanna's practically yours, you know? This goes straight to an ache that's been building in
Not interested. But she is.
She's true and good and funny. Yeah, she's funny. She's special. You should see her.
I'm looking forward to it.
You'll have to catch her first. The line goes dead. MARISSA puts the phone down and sits quietly for a moment. Then presses play again on the tape machine.
Was it like this for you, Mama? I think I know what the baby looks like. I think it's a girl -- I hope so.
I wonder who she'll be? I hope she's smart. I hope she's a stronger person than I am.
RACHEL is still at the wheel, watching the bright headlights behind.
Shit. Shit, shit, shit. I think we're lost, Hanna. HANNA checks the side view mirror again and sees ISAACS BMW. She's knows that whoever is driving that car is after her. She looks back and sees SEB, SOPHIE and MILES all comfortably asleep. MILES' fingers wrapped around a Transformers toy.
I'm going to pull over.
No, don't.
I need to check the map.
Why won't that car pass? He has his lights on high beam, I was doing everything I could to get out of the way... SOPHIE wakes up in the back.
Are we stopped? I need to pee.
Well, I don't want you going too far right now.
I think you should stay where you are, Sophie. HANNA doesn't take her eyes off the mirror. She can see the silhouettes of ISAACS and his MEN. They don't move and neither does HANNA. Both are waiting for the other to make the first move.
Hanna, what's going on. Seb wake up.
Please.
This is creepy. You're creeping me out.
I'm sorry. But you really mustn't get out of the van. HANNA climbs into the back of the van and comes very close to
What ever you do, don't follow me. Promise not to follow me.
I promise.
Hanna, tell me what's going on or Seb will go over to that car and find out.
Like fuck I will. Everyone stay put. Where's my phone?
Hanna! RACHEL sees ISAACS and one of the HENCHMEN chase after HANNA. The SECOND HENCHMAN appears at her drivers window aiming his gun at her head. RACHEL screams.
ISAACS voice comes echoing through the maze.
Don't be a silly girl, Hanna. You need to come with me now. I know where your papa is. She listens.
ISAACS, his gun in hand, calls out again.
He wants to talk to you, Hanna. He misses you.
The HENCHMAN appears directly behind HANNA. HANNA double- kicks him in the chest.
Just take it easy. HANNA makes her decision and runs straight at ISAACS. He stretches out his arms in an attempt to catch her. She hits him like a bowling ball hitting the last pin and he crashes to the ground. She rolls and springs to her feet. The HENCHMEN follow but HANNA is too quick.
HANNA reaches the edge of an industrial canal from where the scrap metal is unloaded.
SEB paces around his cell. RACHEL sits stoically in hers. SOPHIE is crying in her cell while MILES is playing with his Nintendo in his cell. MARISSA walks into SOPHIE'S cell.
Would you please stop crying?
I'm not telling you anything.
Honey, your friend is in a lot of danger. You need to help us find her.
I don't know where to find her! MARISSA grits her teeth, shows SOPHIE a photo of FELICIANO.
Do you know him?
No.
He knows you.
MARISSA now in RACHEL'S cell.
We gave her a ride because we thought she was in trouble.
But you knew she didn't have a passport. You smuggled her into port and helped her illegally gain
She said she lived in Leipzig. She went to the Klaus Kohle Gymnasium.
There is no Klaus Kohle Gymnasium. It closed five years ago. Shock on Rachel's face.
Did she give any idea of where she was going? Rachel wracks her brains.
She said she was going home, to Leipzig. She seemed lost. Like she needed taking care of.  You understand. MARISSA shows her the photograph of JOANNA ZADEK.
This was Hanna's mother, Joanna Zadek. Fifteen years ago Hanna's father shot her to death on a camping holiday by the Baltic. RACHEL swallows, goes pale.
MARISSA now in SEB'S cell.
She was odd. I'll give you that. Disconnected. I mean I get on with most kids, you know, have a rapport. But, this one -
You know, Mr Lyall, it's days like these that I really hate my job.
I'm sure you do.
It's a very, very difficult thing to do.
Absolutely.
But sometimes children are bad people too.
I'm not going to hurt you. MILES shrinks from her touch.
Miles is a nice name. Are you a nice boy? She strokes MILES' hair and immediately he starts crying loudly. SEB pounds on the wall from his cell.
Hey what's going on in there? We don't have to put up with this! We're in the EU, Goddammit!
Three days ago Hanna's father killed two Danish policemen on a beach with a hunting knife.
Where is he now?
He's still at large and he's still very dangerous. We need to find Hanna before he does. Pause. SOPHIE thinks about it but clams up. Marissa notices.
If you know anything at all, it's vital you tell us for her own safety. We are now very worried about her.
Sophie? Still nothing. They all look at her. MILES suddenly speaks.
She's going to Berlin. To Wilhelm Grimm's house.
You little bastard!
How did you know that?
You fuckwad! SOPHIE slaps MILES over the back of the head but SEB pushes her back.
Hey hey hey! Sophie for God's sake.
I've looked through Heller's contacts from the 1980's. There's no one called Wilhelm.
Wilhelm Grimm wrote fairy-tales. He died two hundred years ago. MARISSA hands ISAACS a brown envelope containing one of the photographs she took from KATRIN'S apartment. The photograph shows a happy looking JOANNA and ERIK at a busy family amusement park. Between ERIK and JOANNA is a clown, his arms around both of them. This we will come to understand is KLAUS KNEPFLER. Behind them is a GRIMM'S
What the hell is this? MARISSA smiles slightly.
Wilhelm's house.  Drive on.
People swarm around her but pay her no mind.
HANNA stands in front of the house in deep anticipation. She walks up the small steps that lead to the front door and knocks. She waits, heart sinking at the thought of there being no-one home. Then, ever so slightly the door opens and peering out at her is a man with the sad face of an out of work clown.
Excuse me young lady? It is the man from the photo, but twenty years older. Small, with a wiry intensity.
Are you Wilhelm Grimm?
Not exactly, but it'll do for now. Come this way. He leads her inside.
So you are Hanna. He puts out his hand to shake.
It's very nice to meet you, Hanna. HANNA smiles and shakes his hand, she likes him already. KNEPFLER studies her, quietly moved by his memories.
My real name is Knepfler. Herr Knepfler. I'm an old friend of your father's. I am a sort of caretaker here.
What happened to it?
No car park. You need a car park these days, otherwise people wont come. But somebody has to watch over it...
It's beautiful.
I like it too. Erik used to come here a great deal.
Have you heard from him? He nods.
You must wait. He will be here soon. HANNA stares, not quite believing.
Please, sit down. HANNA sits at the old kitchen table on a wooden bench, while KNEPFLER goes to the stove.
Would you like an egg? They're fresh.
Please. HANNA takes an egg, breaks it and swallows it raw. KNEPFLER smiles. He gives her a buff envelope. She looks inside - some money, a passport, ID cards.
You'll need a fresh photograph. Don't get it wet. HANNA looks at the passport with a new name - ANNA-MARIE ELKAN. She takes a deep breath, not really comprehending.
I don't really understand.
ID. Identity. It tells people who you are. She stares at the passport with the blank space for her photo.
There is an apartment ready for you in the south. Erik will come and the car will take you there today. You will live there now.
Do I have to?
Don't you want to?
I don't know. I miss the forest. I miss my home.
That's to be expected. But the city is so exciting, don't you think?
I suppose. She drinks her water, thinking.
Did you know my mother?
I did.
What was she like?
She was very gentle, she was very funny, very talented - a singer - did you know that?
Yes...
She had your eyes. He smiles at her. She here's a noise outside and runs to look out the window. She sees ISAACS BMW pull up outside the house followed by a second car.
It's him.
Quick. KNEPFLER leads HANNA out of the kitchen.
Upstairs. There's a knock at the door. HANNA begins to climb the stairs while KNEPFLER approaches the front door. There's another knock at the door.
She can hear the sound of ISAAC'S MEN starting to spread through the house.
Listen to me, listen. There is no one here. There is nobody up there...
Check the attic. Footsteps to the attic.
Erik Heller? Do you know him?
I have never heard of him.
Really? MARISSA shows him the photograph of JOANNA, ERIK and KNEPFLER outside the house.
I don't know these people.
Think very carefully He shrugs and MARISSA grabs KNEPFLER by the throat. He speaks in gasps.
He called me. She's coming soon. To meet him.
When?
Tomorrow! Tomorrow morning. MARISSA lets him go. She turns to ISAACS.
Take him in there. Find out what he knows.
Lewis. It's Marissa. HANNA hears the name. The name of the woman she thought she had killed. Her face pale in shock and fear.
You got anything? He's coming here. I can smell it. Double the men. But, Lewis, I want to talk to him. HANNA hears MARISSA hang. Another pair of shoes enter the room. Male. ISAACS.
His name's Klaus Knepfler. He used to send Heller's things from Berlin before the Communists were kicked out of Prague.
How much does he know about the programme?
Everything. He knew Johanna.
What does he know about the child?
He also thinks Erik's the father.
Well that's good.
Everybody thinks Erik's her father. Erik probably thinks he's her father. They snigger. HANNA's eyes widen in shock. She can barely control her breath.
Crazy bastard. You got a fix on him yet?
Let's see what else Knepfler has to offer. He leaves her. MARISSA suddenly senses something. Did she hear an intake of breath? She turns and quickly looks under the bed. No one there. Her imagination maybe. MARISSA stands and we see the shoes walk away to the door. They reach the door. HANNA, clinging to the bedsprings in mid- air, not breathing. The green shoes leave. HANNA breathes. Hurriedly she climbs out from under the bed and goes to a window.
Excuse me. You have to pay first.
How much?
3 Euros for half an hour. She looks at the money that Knepfler gave her. It contains Euros. She hands some over to the OWNER.
How does it work?
You've never used the internet?
No. He smiles in amazement and logs on for her. The owner brings up a search engine.
Just type whatever it is you're looking for here. He walks away and HANNA slowly starts to type. She types in
HELLER watches for a moment or two. Then, keeping low, he makes a painful run towards the house. HELLER throws himself against the back wall of the kitchen. He breathes heavily for a moment, clutching his wounded leg. He turns and rises to look through the kitchen window. Inside he sees KNEPFLER, stripped to the waist his body bloodied, hanging upside down from a meat hook. He's obviously dead.
Phrases from the text leap out at her. An interfering sequence within the DNA , intervention to the mother's uterus during pregnancy. HANNA stands in shock. She reads again. Intervention to the mother's uterus HANNA deletes the page. Sits in shock. Then writes in her mother's name. JOHANNA ZADEK. Immediately the article about JOHANNA's death comes up. HANNA stares at it. She reads it. No mention of a child. There is an address for Johanna Zadek. She came from the Heizinger Buildings area in the suburbs of East Berlin. HANNA writes it down. Gets up and leaves.
Isaacs. He listens. Puts the phone down.
A public computer at a Berlin internet cafe just did a web search for DNA Interfering Sequence.
Hanna?
Next they searched the name Johanna Zadek.
She's not coming here.
(In German w/ English
Excuse me. I'm looking for Joanna Zadek's house. Can you help? The KURDISH WOMAN wont look HANNA in the eye as she passes. She mutters her response.
(In Kurdish w/ English
I don't speak German. HANNA kicks at the door but knows it won't be answered so doesn't wait.
You won't find anything. HANNA turns in shock.
Marissa would have been much too careful for that. HANNA stares at him. ERIK HELLER.
Sit down Hanna.
Are you my father?
Sit down.
Are you my father?
Please.
Are you? Moment of electric silence between them. ERIK does nothing but she knows the answer is no.
I was going to tell you. HANNA sinks to the floor. Breathing fast.
What's wrong with me? ERIK flinches slightly.
Nothing.
Where was I born? ERIK knows he has to tell the truth.
At Galinka.
What's that?
It was a secret CIA research programme in rural Poland.
What kind of research?
Children. HANNA stares at ERIK.
It was run by Marissa Wiegler. The science came from the old East Germany. The money from the CIA. The intention was to explore whether small genetic changes could be made to embryos... to improve
Improve? ERIK looks at her. She looks so young, so numb, so lost.
Reduce capacity for fear. For pity. Increase muscle strength. Heighten senses. Anything that might make a better soldier. HANNA looks up, stares at him. It's her he's talking about.
How did you know about it? ERIK's stares right at her.
I worked for it. She stares at him. He hands her a piece of paper from his pocket.
This is what you were looking for. HANNA reads. It is an invitation to Johanna Zadek to participate in the Galinka project. A projected date of arrival at the Galinka Centre. A date - 23rd February 1995. An agreed fee to be paid to Johanna. Five hundred American dollars. An agreement to give up the child and have no legal claim over it. The letter is signed by Erik Heller.
I recruited your mother at an abortion clinic in May 1994. She was about to terminate an unwanted pregnancy. Some boy at a disco. HANNA looks at the paper in shock.
I had recruited twenty women. She was the last. She was different. Two years later I heard the programme was to be terminated. The research disposed of.
Disposed of?
I tried to save all of you. But you were the only one I was able to rescue.
Hanna listen to me.
Keep away from me. ERIK approaches her. With real conviction.
It worked. You worked.
You mean I'm a killer?
No... no.. He makes to touch her. HANNA springs back in violent repulsion.
Don't touch me.
We have a new identity for you. A new life. A new beginning. She stares at him, then pushes past him. ERIK stops, pushes her back but then HANNA grabs a sharp letter opener.
Don't. She attacks, ERIK pushes her to one side, grabs her. A fight in the apartment. Chaos, photos of Johanna crashing, lamps and bookshelves falling. HANNA murderous, ERIK just defending himself, not willing to hurt her. But then she overpowers him, has a knife to his throat.
Let me go. He releases her. She goes to the door.
I tried to prepare you for what your life would be.
You didn't prepare me for this. And her look is so full of pain that in that moment ERIK knows he has done a terrible wrong. She starts to leave down the fire escape. ERIK calls after her.
Hanna wait. He looks out to watch her go. It's then ERIK sees the cars coming across the estate scrubland. ERIK turns in panic. And dashes back into the apartment, runs through the destroyed living room, and out through the front door.
ERIK comes out of the main entrance and runs into full view of the cars, deliberately distracting them from HANNA.
That's him. And the car swerves to follow him. Thus moving unknowingly away from the slight figure of HANNA. HANNA can see the cars in full chase of Erik Heller. He has distracted them.
Drop it. MARISSA steps out of the doorway, her gun trained on him. There are men at the end of the alleyway. No escape. HELLER drops his gun. Silence between them. He turns to look her in the eye.
So go ahead. She stares at him. Wants to make this as painful as she can for him.
You know I'll find her.
Don't under estimate what you created.
What we created, together.
Truth is I was always very fond of you.
Leave him here. And they all walk away leaving him alone in the East Berlin dirt.
They had a fight.
She must know the truth.
Where do you think she's gone?
Where would you go? MARISSA turns to ISAACS.
I'm closing the CIA operation down. Heller is dead, that's all that matters to them. This we do alone.
In the same carriage a Polish woman sleeps alongside her child of two, also sleeping. HANNA looks at the child. The peace of the innocent.
I am looking for a train to Galinka.
Galinka is a small village. No trains. You must wait for bus in the morning.
Where can I stay? He points. HANNA sees the hotel.
Do you have a sandwich?
Kitchen is closed. The BUSINESSMAN speaks in German.
Get her something. Poor girl's hungry. The barman disappears. HANNA looks round, waits.
I'm from Leipzig. HANNA flinches at the name. Leipzig.
You?
The same.
Business? He looks at her body. HANNA senses it. Her sandwich arrives. It's grim. She leaves it, walks out.
Where are you going?
I am tired. I need to sleep. She leaves the bar. HANNA walks back up the stairs. BUSINESSMAN follows.
Hello? She walks along the corridor, gets to her room. BUSINESSMAN follows.
I was just making nice conversation. Yes? As she enters her room, he puts his foot in the door.
Let's talk. Maybe we can do business. HANNA kicks his foot out of the door. Hard.
You don't like talk, huh? He barges into the room and grabs her. Tries to push her on to the bed. He is strong. His words and tone contrasting violently with his actions.
Be nice. Be a nice little dolly. HANNA is thrust on to the bed, but suddenly turns him over her head and smashes him against a cupboard. BUSINESSMAN grabs her hair and throws her on the bed. But now HANNA snaps. She starts to roar. It's like an animal, like nothing we have seen before. She rips at his face, grabs a glass, smashes it and cuts his face with it. Pure animal rage. BUSINESSMAN starts to scream, blood pouring from his eyes. He collapses on the floor. She kicks him, punches him, repeatedly in a grief-fuelled rage until she is spent of her primal fury and falls, panting, to the floor.
I have this much. Can you take me to Galinka?
Suddenly the taxi stops.
This is as far as the money gets you. HANNA looks out. Middle of nowhere.
How much further?
Twelve miles.
Please. But no smile from him, nothing. HANNA gets out. Starts to walk as the taxi turns and drives back the way it came.
Time passes. Still she walks. Dead on her feet. Gathering every ounce of energy. Then the sounds of another car. But it too just flies by, ignoring her waves and cries. HANNA almost collapses in frustration. But carries on. Carries on walking. Time passes. Freezing cold. HANNA alone on the road. Can she make it? Then another car. HANNA turns, waves, cries out. And, almost magically, the car slows and stops. The window winds down.
I'm going to Galinka. Can you help me? A woman's voice, German, in German.
Yes I can take you there. And as HANNA gets in, she looks at the comforting, smiling face of MARISSA WIEGLER.
It's a very dull place Galinka. Why would you want to go there?
I was born there. But I've never really seen it. Why are you going?
I have some business to sort out. She looks at her and smiles a sunny, uncomplicated smile.
It's very lucky we ran into each other, don't you think?
Yes...
You've hurt your arm.
It's okay. MARISSA hands her some tissue. HANNA bandages the arm.
I'm Astrid.
You're not German. Are you American?
That's right. I lived there for many years. I travel a lot. MARISSA smiles at her kindly. HANNA feels safe for the first time in ages. She feels the tears come.
Oh dear, what's wrong with you?
Sorry.
It's okay. Are you in trouble? HANNA nods. She fights the tears. MARISSA gently holds her hand as she drives. HANNA weeping.
What sort of trouble?
 I don't know what to do. Nothing is what I thought it would be. It's... ugly and cruel and I don't know where to go, or... I'm stupid. I don't know what I expected... MARISSA secretly, genuinely affected by this. Fights the emotion that has surprised her. Human warmth.
Sometimes I feel the same way.
I like music.
Sleep why don't you? You look very tired. It will take half an hour on this road. HANNA nods. She begins to drift off, so long since she has slept. Her eyes fall shut and her head rests against the window. She is asleep. Vulnerable.
Where are we? MARISSA calms herself instantly.
Nearly there. HANNA doesn't see MARISSA'S SHOES.
This is it.
It's so small.
Yes. Just a few cottages. And the old bunker. HANNA chooses not to ask any more questions.
Thank you for the ride. You're very kind.
I wish there was more I could do for you. MARISSA looks kindly at HANNA who is confused by the intimacy. MARISSA reaches into the glove compartment and retrieves a torch which she hands to HANNA.
Here, take this. HANNA switches the torch on and off, thinking.
I hope you find what you're looking for.
Thank you. She gets out and shuts the door behind her.
HANNA walks through the trees along a track. Overgrown, not used for many years. She reaches a hidden entrance off the track. By the entrance there is an old battered sign. GALINKA. HANNA looks at the old iron gate. Rusted, locked. It has not been opened in a long time. She stares at the sign, tries the gate - yes, locked. Then she climbs the gate. She nearly tears her clothes on the spikes at the top of the gate, then leaps over and, exhausted, four days without real sleep, begins to walk up the narrow tree-lined driveway.
Happy Birthday to you, Happy Birthday to you... From the far end of the dormitory come a procession of CHILDREN, the first of whom is carrying a large birthday cake lit with birthday candles. The children's faces glow eerily in the candle light. They're looking at HANNA and walking straight towards her as they sing.
Happy Biirrrrthday, dear... The CHILDREN arrive at HANNA lifting the cake towards her.
... Hanna. Happy Birthday to you! HANNA leans forward, takes a deep breath and blows. The children disappear with the flames of the candles. The sound of a woman's approaching footsteps echo through the tunnel. HANNA swings her torch beam in the direction of the footsteps. She freezes as she sees a pair of GREEN SHOES walking towards her. The same shoes as in Wilhelm's house.
HANNA raises her torch beam to see the face of the woman from the car.
You're Marissa Wiegler. HANNA starts to shake. MARISSA has her gun pointing at HANNA but her expression is the same sunny, uncomplicated smile as earlier. Dead silence. HANNA breathing fast. MARISSA speaks in English.
Don't worry sweetie. I don't want to hurt you. MARISSA'S tone has turned into a twisted interpretation of maternal care. HANNA does not move. Like a wild animal cornered.
I could have killed you already when you were asleep in the car. HANNA'S still shaking. HANNA now sees ISAACS and his HENCHMEN, three of them, all with hunting rifles. All ready to shoot her should she attack or run. They are some distance away, not coming any closer.
Did Erik tell you about this place?
Where are the other children? She looks at MARISSA, who waits, then answers quietly.
Sleeping. They're all sleeping.
I don't believe you.
I can protect you, Hanna. Make sure you walk out of here and keep walking. Grow up and grow old in safety and security. No one need know a thing. But you have to trust me. You can't talk about this with anyone. It's what we call classified. If you tell anyone, it'll be dangerous for both of us. HANNA looks at her, remembering what ERIK told her, trying hard not to succumb.
You killed my mother.
You're mother didn't want you, sweetie. I saved you. HANNA just stares, not believing her.
I'm the only person left who understands who you are. The only one who cares. MARISSA holds out a hand to HANNA, for HANNA to take, a motherly gesture...
I practically am your mother.
A HENCHMAN treads carefully down the tunnel. We see his point of view through his night vision sight, just the dark tunnel stretching on. Like a ghost HANNA'S face appears up close, her eyes a pearly white. She slams the gun back in the HENCHMAN'S face. Still in night vision we see the fight, quick and hard. The flash of a single bullet illuminates his death. Silence once more. HANNA now has the first HENCHMAN'S rifle. From around the corner into the next tunnel she hears the sound of feet on dirt. She presses herself against the tunnel, waits listening, hears the feet again and in one movement raises the rifle and spins round the corner. Through her night vision sight she sees a deer, scared eyes staring back at her. She releases her grip on the trigger and the deer scampers into the darkness.
A HENCHMAN enters the lab carrying a hand gun and a small torch. His footsteps make a crunching sound as he steps through the broken glass that litters the floor. HANNA rises from her hiding place and stands straight into the torch light.
He drops his torch which slides across the floor. HANNA comes round the lab bench to where the HENCHMAN should be lying but he's gone. There's a trail of blood which she follows to a metal cabinet. She stops at the cabinet and fires three shots into its flimsy doors. The dead HENCHMAN slides out from the cabinet. HANNA takes the dead man's hand gun and goes to retrieve the torch. She switches the torch off.
They fight. HANNA picks up the torch and slams the torch across his temple. She grabs him by the hair and smashes his head repeatedly into the floor - BAM - BAM - BAM - BAM - BAM. Silence - he's dead.
No more. No more. Tears are streaming down her face as she reaches sight of the tunnel mouth and the daylight beyond. Standing in silhouette is MARISSA. HANNA slows her pace and stops when she can see the white of MARISSA'S eyes and the finger on MARISSA'S trigger. MARISSA raises the gun and aims at HANNA - but HANNA comes forward again, walking calmly towards her. She stops and drops her gun to the ground.
Everything I see is nothing I want. MARISSA looks at HANNA, her gentle, childlike countenance. She smiles.
Let me take care of you?
No. I don't want that. HANNA turns her back on MARISSA and starts to walks in the opposite direction. MARISSA watches her walk away. HANNA walks waiting for the shot to come.
Hanna. HANNA spins, fires directly at CAMERA.
The sun spreads its golden fingers through the trees catching the early morning dew.
HANNA steps out of the cabin. She's back wearing her furs again. In her hands she carries a cup of hot milk and a small wooden bowl. In VOICE-OVER we hear HANNA reading from her beloved Encyclopaedia.
The Earth is the third planet from the Sun, and the fifth-largest of the eight planets in the Solar System. HANNA sits down on a tree trunk outside the cabin and pours some milk into the bowl, then drinks a little for herself.
Home to millions of species, including humans, Earth is the only place in the universe where life is known to exist. She raises her head and makes a small clicking sound. Her friend, the snow fox, appears from the trees. The fox now has a small family of cubs. HANNA watches as the cubs approach the milk and begin to drink.
The planet formed over four and a half billion years ago, and life appeared on its surface within a billion years. HANNA sits back and feels the sunlight on her face. Above her the trees are beginning to leaf.
It is expected to continue supporting life for another one and a half billion years, after which the rising luminosity of the Sun will eliminate it all. HANNA surveys her beautiful world.
