How can she sleep at a time like this?
She's on a jump-out squad all night; she's saving her strength.
All right, everyone, pay attention. Here's the layout -
Excuse me, I'm Officer Bolton, DC Police.
Yes, I can see that from your uniform and badge, how do you do?
I'm in charge here.
You are?
Yes, ma'am.
Officer Bolton, I'm Special Agent Starling, and just so we don't get off on the wrong foot, let me explain why we're all here.
I'm here because I know Evelda Drumgo, I've arrested her twice on RICO warrants, I know how she thinks.  DEA and BATF, in addition to backing me up, are here for the drugs and weapons.  You're here, and it's the only reason you're here, because our mayor wants to appear tough on drugs, especially after his own cocaine conviction, and thinks he can accomplish that by the mere fact of having you tag along with us.
You got a smart mouth, lady.
Officer, if you wouldn't mind, I'd appreciate it if you took a step or two back, you're in my light.
Thank you.  All right.  The fish market backs on the water. Across the street, ground floor, is the meth lab --
Drumgo's HIV positive and she will spit and bite if she's cornered, so you might want to put these on. (Bolton takes the gloves and puts them on) And if you happen to be the one who puts her in a patrol car in front of the cameras, and I have a feeling you will be, you don't want to push her head down, she'll likely have a needle in her hair.
Heads up.
It's her.  Behind two guys.  Both packing.
 Strike One to all units.  Showdown. She's out front, we're moving.
Down on the ground!  Down on the ground!
Hold it!  Hold your fire!  Watch the door behind me!  Evelda!
Evelda!  Put your hands out the window!
Show me your hands!  Please!  Show me your hands!
Is that you, Starling?
Show me your hands!
How you been?
Don't do this!
Do what?
You like to think when it's over your things would fill more than one cardboard box.
John's parents don't want it.  Any of it.  Except the dog.  Don't want to be reminded.
I want to be reminded.
I figured.  He was your last compadre on the street, wasn't he.
My last compadre.
All they'll get with tinted windows is pictures of themselves, but it won't stop them from trying.  You ready?
Agent Starling, this is John Eldredge from DEA; Assistant Director Noonan, of course you know; Larkin Wayne, from our Office of Professional Responsibility; Bob Sneed, BATF; Benny Holcome, Assistant to the Mayor; and Paul Krendler - you know Paul.  Paul's come over from Justice - unofficially - as a favor to us.  In other words, he's here and he's not here.
I take it you've seen the coverage in the papers and on television.  Agent Starling?
I have nothing to do with the news, Mr. Sneed.
The woman had a baby in her arms.  There are pictures.  You can see the problem.
Not in her arms, in a sling across her chest.  In her arms, she had a MAC 10. Mr. Pearsall?  This is a friendly meeting, right?
Absolutely.
Then why is Mr. Sneed wearing a wire?
We're here to help you, Starling. That's going to be harder to do with a combative attitude like -
Help me what?  Your agency called this office and got me assigned to help you on the raid.  I gave Drumgo a chance - two chances - to surrender.  She didn't.  She fired.  She shot John Brigham.  She shot at me.  And I shot her.  In that order. You might want to check your counter right there, where I admit it.
Ms. Starling, did you make some kind of inflammatory remark about Ms. Drumgo in the van on the way?
Is that what your Officer Bolton is saying?  I explained to him, and the others in the van, that Drumgo was HIV positive and would think nothing of infecting them, and me, any way she could given the chance.  If that's inflamma -
Did you also say to him at one point that a splash of Canoe is not the same as a shower?  Did Officer Bolton smell bad to you?
Incompetence smells bad to me.
You shot five people out there, Agent Starling.  That may be some kind of record.  Is that how you define competence?
Can I speak freely, Mr. Pearsall?  This raid was an ugly mess.  I ended up in a position where I had a choice of dying, or shooting a woman carrying a child.  I chose.  I shot her -
I killed a mother holding her child. The lower animals don't do that.  And I regret it.  I resent myself for it.  But I resent you, too - whichever of you thinks that by attacking me, bad press will go away.  That Waco will go away.  A mayor's drug habit.  All of it.
I know you haven't had a chance to write your 302 yet, Starling, but -
I have, sir.  A copy's on its way to your office.  I also have a copy with me if you want to review it now.  Everything I did and saw.
Assistant Director Noonan is on his way back to his office, Gentlemen.  I'm going to call a halt to this meeting and get back to you individually by phone.
We've got to decide some things here.
No, we don't.
Clint -
Bob, believe me, we don't have to decide anything right this second.  I said I'll get back to you. (Pearsall's look to Starling says she's free to leave; she gets up) And, Bob?
You ever come in here wired again, I'll stick it up your ass.
That was no free lunch, Starling. I'll call you.
Oh ... bad luck, Jack.
What's your handicap?
My handicap is I can't play golf.
Maybe better clubs would help.
I play with the best clubs money can buy. It's not the clubs, it's a woeful lack of talent.
Or interest.
Were my flowers at John's service okay? Lot of times, flowers by wire, you never know.
They were canary daffodils.  I put your name on my flowers.
Thank you.
Thank you.  For the call.  At the Inquisition.  I don't know what you said to them, but it worked.
Don't thank me too quickly.
How was it?  Better today?
The clubs are in the dumpster downstairs if anyone wants them.
Nice, huh?  This could all be yours, Starling.  I can get you a PI ticket in Florida tomorrow, you can chase insurance scams, extortion against the cruise lines, put down the gun and have some fun with me.
Tempting.
Just wait.
The call I made wasn't to Assistant Director Noonan.  Whoever called him, I don't know.  I called Mason Verger.
Lecter's fourth victim, Starling. The one who lived, if you can call it living.  The rich one.
I told Mason I wanted you off the street.  I told him what I told you when I left the Bureau, "You go out with a gun enough times, you will be killed by one." I told him I want you where you belong, in Behavioral Science.  Know what he said?
He can speak?
It's about the only thing he can do. He said, after a very long pause, "Oh, what a good idea, Jack."  Who he called, I don't know.  Someone higher up than anyone in that room with you.  Maybe Representative Vollmer, who Mason may not own, but does rent from time to time.
Yeah, that's right, it means going back on the Lecter case.
What if I said to you I'd rather not do that?  What if I said to you I prefer the street?
You think this is a cheap deal?  What you were getting was a cheap deal.  What they say about federal examiners is true: they arrive after the battle and bayonet the wounded.  You're not safe on the street anymore.
Has something happened on the case?
Has Lecter killed anybody lately?  I wouldn't know, I'm retired from all that. Mason doesn't know either, but he does apparently have some new information - which he'll only share with you.
He's not pretty, Starling.  And I don't just mean his face.
Ms. Starling.  Hi.  I'm Cordell.  Mr. Verger's private physician.
How do you do?
Shall we make a run for it?
 One's eyes adjust to the darkness. This way is better.
Mr. Verger, Ms. Starling is here.
Good morning, Mr. Verger.
Cordell, do you address a judge as Mr?
Agent Starling is her proper title, not "Ms."
Agent Starling.
Correct.  Good morning, Agent Starling. Have a seat.  Make yourself comfortable.
Thank you.
Was that a Mustang I heard out there?
Yes, it was.
Five-liter?
'88 Stroker.
Fast.
Yes.
Where'd you get it?
Dope auction.
Very good.
Mr. Verger, the discussion we're going to have is in the nature of a deposition. I'll need to tape record it if that's all right with you.
Cordell, I think you can leave us now.
I thought I might stay.  Perhaps I could be useful if -
You could be useful seeing about my lunch.
I'd like to attach this microphone to your - clothing, or pillow - if you're comfortable with that.
By all means.
Here, this should make it easier.
You know, I thank God for what happened. It was my salvation.  Have you accepted Jesus, Agent Starling?  Do you have faith?
I was raised Lutheran.
That's not what I asked -
This is Special Agent Clarice Starling, FBI number 5143690, deposing Mason R. Verger, Social Security number -
- 475-98-9823 -
- at his home on the date stamped above, sworn and attested.  Mr. Verger, you claim to have -
I want to tell you about summer camp. It was a wonderful childhood experience -
We can get to that later.  The -
We can get to it now.  You see, it all comes to bear, it's where I met Jesus and I'll never tell you anything more impor- tant than that.  It was a Christian camp my father paid for.  Paid for the whole thing, all 125 campers on Lake Michigan. Many of them were unfortunate, cast-off little boys and girls would do anything for a candy bar.  Maybe I took advantage of that.  Maybe I was rough with them -
Mr. Verger, I don't need to know about the sex offenses.  I just -
It's all right.  I have immunity, so it's all right now.  I have immunity from the U.S. Attorney.  I have immunity from the D.A. in Owings Mills.  I have immunity from the Risen Jesus and nobody beats the Riz.
What I'd like to know is if you'd ever seen Dr. Lecter before the court assigned you to him for therapy?
You mean - socially? 
That is what I mean, yes.  Weren't you both on the board of the Baltimore Phil- harmonic?
Oh, no, my seat was just because my family contributed.  I sent my lawyer when there was a vote.
Then I'm not sure I understand how he ended up at your house that night, if you don't mind talking about it.
Not at all.  I'm not ashamed.
I didn't say you should be.
I invited him, of course.  He was too professional to just sort of "drop in." I answered the door in my nicest come- hither leather outfit.
I was concerned he'd be afraid of me, but he didn't seem to be.  Afraid of me; that's funny now.
I showed him my toys, my noose set-up among other things - where you sort of hang yourself but not really.  It feels good while you - you know.
Anyway - he said, Would you like a popper, Mason?  I said, Would I.  And whoa, once that kicked in I knew it was more than simple amyl, it was some kind of custom meth-angel-acid highball. Lovely.  I was flying -
The good doctor came over with a piece of broken mirror.  Mason, he said -
- show me how you smile to get the confidence of a child.
Uh-huh.  Do you ever smile?  Oh, I see how you do it. Now Mason, let's say you had to hide that kindly, fictitious mask?  How would you do it?
No, I still see it.  Try again.  No.  No, I'm afraid not.  Try this.  Try peeling off your face with this and feeding it to the dogs.
Well, you know the rest.  Seemed like a good idea at the time.
Mr. Verger, you -
Are you shocked, Agent S?
You indicated to - (her eyes dart to the tape, and his follow them) - to my office - that you've received some kind of new information.
Look in the drawer of the end table.
Where did this come from?
Buenos Aires.  I received it two weeks ago.
Where's the package it came in?
The package it came in... good question. I don't know.  There was nothing written on it of interest.  Did I throw it out?
Think it will help?  I hope so.  I hope it'll help you catch him, if for no other reason than to heal the stigma of your recent dishonor.
Thank you, that's all I -
Did you feel some rapport with Dr. Lecter in your talks at the asylum? I know I did while I was peeling.
We exchanged information in a civil way.
But always through the glass.
Yes.
The eel and fish become accustomed to each other through the glass.  They're even company for one another.
Isn't it funny?
What's that?
You can look at my face, but you shied when I said the name of God.
Not finding what you want?
Are you sure this is all of it?
That's all of it now.  There used to be more, but it's been picked over little by little over the years.  It's worth a lot of money in certain circles.  Like the cocaine that disappears around here. Little by little.
December you mean -
No, not December.  November.  Volume Four, Number Four.  Worst.  Issue.  Ever.
I'm interested in Hannibal Lecter memorabilia.
I don't handle Hannibal Lecter memorabilia.  Hannibal Lecter memorabilia - real Hannibal Lecter memorabilia - would have to be stolen.  I don't deal in stolen goods.  Try Sotheby's.
I'm confused.
You're a policeman, of course you're confused.
Not exactly.
Oh, all right.  Police woman.  I keep the politically-correct comics in the back.  By the toilet scrubber.
I'm confused because I just paid you ten thousand dollars for an x-ray of Hannibal Lecter.  I don't want to wait for you to send it, I want to pick it up now.
No, if you paid me ten thousand dollars for an x-ray of Hannibal Lector, I would possess a money order, or cashiers check, for ten thousand dollars, which I do not. You bid ten thousand dollars for an x-ray of Hannibal Lecter.  I've decided, in the interim, not to sell it.  You're free to write a nasty comment about me on the e-Bay message board.
I'm free to write a nasty comment about you on your arrest report.
 The x-ray I was thinking of selling, but have now decided against, is not of Hannibal Lecter.  How do I know this? Because it's of me.  This arm. (pointing to it, then to the other one) No, this one.
Wait a minute.  I know you.  You're -
Would you be so kind, Miss Starling, as to sign this for me?  I apologize for my - um - my -
Rude -
Rude - behavior - before.
Hi, Barney.  I need to talk with -
Would you agree, for the record, Officer Starling, I've not been read my rights?
This is just informal.  I just need to ask you about some stuff.
How about saying it into your handbag?
I have not Mirandized Barney.  He is unaware of his rights.
How you been?
Barney, back when you turned Dr. Lecter over to the Tennessee Police -
They weren't civil to him.  And they're all dead now.
Yeah.  They only managed to survive his company three days.  You survived him six years at the asylum.  How'd you do that? It wasn't just being civil.
Yes, it was.
Did you ever think, once he escaped, he might come after you?
No.  He told me once that, whenever feasible, he preferred to eat the rude. "Free-range rude," he called them.
Any idea what happened to all his stuff? His books and papers and drawings and -
Everything got thrown out when the place closed.
Barney, I just found out that Dr. Lecter's signed copy of The Joy of Cooking went to a private collector for sixteen thousand dollars.
It was probably a fake.
The seller's affidavit of ownership was signed, Karen Phlox.  You know Karen Phlox?  You should.  "She" filled out your employment application, only at the bottom she signed it, Barney.  Same thing on your tax returns.
You want the book?  Maybe I could get it back.
I want the x-ray.  From when you broke his arm after he attacked that nurse.
We talked about a lot of things, late at night, after all the screaming died down. We talked about you sometimes.  Want to know what he said?
No, just the x-ray.
Is there a reward?
Yeah.  The reward is I don't have my friend the Postal Inspector nail you on Use of the Mails to Defraud, you don't get ten years, and you don't come out with a janitor's job and a room at the Y, sitting on the side of your bunk at night listening to yourself cough.
I'm not a bad guy.
I didn't say you were.
Dr. Chilton is a bad guy.  After your first visit, he began taping your conver- sations with Dr. Lecter.
I was good to you.  Tried to make it easy for you the first time you came down to the violent ward to interview Dr. Lecter.  Remember?
Yes.
You remember saying thank you?
I'm sorry.  Thank you.
You mean it?
Yes.
I'm going to show you something then. I don't have to show it to you, remember that.  But I believe your gratitude is sincere.
This is my retirement fund.  If you'll let me keep it.  I can a lot of money for this and get out of here for good.  I want to travel, and see every Vermeer in the world before I die.
Go on.  You've grieved long enough.
What did he say?  About me?  Late at night.
We were talking about inherited, hard- wired behavior.  He was using genetics in roller pigeons as an example. They go way up in the air and roll over backwards in a display, falling toward the ground.  There are shallow rollers and deep rollers.  You can't breed two deep rollers or the offspring will roll all the way down, crash and die.  He said, "Officer Starling is a deep roller, Barney.  Let's hope one of her parents was not."
They're the same arm.  The discrepancy is the dates.  This one -
- shows the hairline fracture he sustained in the fight with the orderly. This one -  - the more recent one, supposedly, doesn't.  This is the newer of the two -  - the one from the asylum.
Surely the odd confluence of events hasn't escaped you, Clarice.  Jack Craw- ford dangles you in front of me, then I give you a bit of help.  Do you think it's because I like to look at you and imagine how good you would taste?
I don't know.  Is it?
I've been in this room for eight years, Clarice.  I know they will never - ever - let me out while I'm alive.  What I want ... is a view.
The Capponi correspondence goes back to the 13th Century.  Dr. Fell might hold in his hand, in his non-Italian hand, a note from Dante Alighieri himself, but would he recognize it?  I think not -
They're still arguing.
 The curatorship.  Sogliato wants the job for his nephew.  The scholars seem satisfied with the temporary guy they appointed.
You have examined him in medieval Italian, and I'll not deny his language is admirable.  For a straniero.  But what if he came upon a note in the Capponi library, say, from Guido de'Cavalcanti to Dante?  Would he recognize it?  I think not.
Professor Sogliato, if I might. Cavalcanti, as we all know, replied publicly to Dante's first sonnet in La Vita Nuova.  If he commented privately as well, if he wrote to a Cappono, to which would it be?  In your opinion? (Sogliato clearly can't even name the Capponi) No?  Not even a guess?  Andrea, don't you think?  Since he was more literary than his brothers.
If he is such an expert on Dante let him lecture on Dante - to the Studiolo. Let him face them, if he can.
I'd look forward to it.  Shall we set the date now?
Dr. Fell?
Chief Inspector Rinaldo Pazzi of the Questura.
 Commendatore.  How can I be of service?
I'm investigating the disappearance of your predecessor, Signore de Bonaventura. I was wondering if -
Predecessor implies I have the job. Unfortunately, I don't.  Not yet.  Though I'm hopeful.  They are letting me look after the library.  For a stipend.
Yes.  Well -
What do you think happened to him?
To your - to the Signore - who can say? Perhaps he ran off.  Bad debts.  Bad love affair.  I was wondering if you might -
Not another victim of Il Mostro?
What?  No.  That I'm sure.  We find Il Mostro's victims.  He makes sure we find them.
Or she.
Or she.
I never actually met Signore de Bonaventura.  I have read several of his monographs in the Nuova Antologia.
The officers who first checked, didn't find any sort of - farewell or - suicide note.  I was wondering if -
If I happen to come across anything in the Capponi Library, stuffed in a book or a drawer - yes, I'll call you at once.
Thank -
You've been reassigned.
Pardon?
You were on the Il Mostro case, I'm sure I read.
That's right.
Now you're on this.  This is much less - grand - a case, I would think.
If I thought of my work in those terms, yes, I guess I'd agree.
A missing person.
Were you unfairly dismissed from the grander case?  Or did you deserve it?
Regarding this one, Dr. Fell.  Are the Signore's personal effects still at the Palazzo?
Packed neatly in two cases with an inventory.  Alas, no note.
I'll send someone over to pick them up. Thank you for your help.
Have you thought about Botticelli?
Not since middle school art class, I'm afraid.
Those awful pictures in the papers of The Monster's victims.  His careful arrangement of the young lovers' bodies. The flowers.  The women's exposed left breast.  The tableaux remind me of Botticelli.  Don't they, you?
Maybe a clue.
Dear Clarice, I have followed with enthusiasm the course of your disgrace and public shaming.  My own never bothered me, except for the inconvenience of being incarcerated, but you may lack perspective -
In our discussions down in the dungeon, it was apparent to me that your father - the dead night watchman - figures large in your value system.
I think your success in putting an end to Jame Gumb's career as a couturier pleased you most because you could imagine your father being pleased.
Now you are in bad odour with the FBI, alas.  Do you imagine Daddy shamed by your disgrace?  Do you see him in his plain pine box, crushed by your failure? The sorry, petty end of a promising career?
Do you dream now, not of screaming lambs, but of yourself doing the menial tasks your mother was reduced to after the addicts busted a cap on Daddy?
What is worst about this humiliation? Is it how your failure will reflect on them?  Is your worst fear that people will forever now believe your parents were indeed trailer camp tornado-bait white trash?  That you are?  Hmmm?
I couldn't help noticing on its rather dull public web site, Clarice, that I've been hoisted from the Bureau's Archives of the Common Criminal up to the more prestigious 10 Most Wanted list.
Coincidence?  Or are you "back on the case?"
I imagine you sitting in a dark base- ment room, bent over papers and computer screens at clerk's distances that mocks the prairie distance in your eyes.  A zoo hawk, one wing hanging down.
Is that fairly accurate?  Tell me truly, Special Agent Starling.  Regards, Hannibal Lecter, M.D.
Thanks.
How's it going?  Any leads?
They're all leads.  They just don't lead to him.
I don't know how you live with this stuff.
Oh, God.
It's from the Guinness Book of World Records congratulating me on being "The Female FBI Agent Who Has Shot The Most People."
Geoffrey - ?  Would you excuse me.
P.S.  Clearly this new assignment is not your choice.  Rather, it is part of "the bargain."  But you accepted it, Clarice.  Your job is to craft my doom. As such, I'm not sure how well to wish you.  Ta-ta.  H.
The letter was written by Lecter, but you could probably tell that just from reading it.
Naturally, there were several prints on the envelope, including yours -
- sorry -
On the letter itself there's only one "partial" - here - not enough to hold up in court, but -
We know it's him.  Where he was when he wrote it is what I need.
The paper isn't going to help.  Yes, it's linen fiber.  Yes, it's on the expensive side.  No, it's not so rare that you couldn't find it in a thousand stationery stores the world over. Same with the ink.  Same with the wax. (an image of the envelope appears on the monitor) The post mark.  Las Vegas.  You could check it out, but odds are it came from a a re-mailing service.  Afraid you're out of luck.
What about the crease?
The what?
Hand soap ... Raw ambergris base ... Tennessee lavender ... mountain sage ... trace of something else ...
It's fleece, isn't it.  Lovely.
What's ambergris?
Ambergris is a whale product.  Alas, much as we'd like to, we can't import it. Endangered Species Act.
Where isn't it illegal?
Japan, of course.  Couple of places in Europe.  You'd almost certainly find it somewhere in Paris.  Rome.  Amsterdam.
Is there any way of knowing which shops?
Of course.  We'll give you a list. It'll be short.
I need opera tickets.
 Don't think I have any on me.
It's sold out, whatever it's called.
It's the pretty young wife with the ever-open beak who needs opera tickets.
Botticelli.
What?
He arranges his victims like that Botticelli painting.  You hadn't noticed?
Back that up.
What?  I can't back it up.  I'm making a copy.  I'm recording.
What is this?
Security camera from a perfume shop on Villa Della Scula.  FBI through Interpol requested a copy.
Why?
They didn't say.
They didn't say?
It was actually kind of weird.  Like they were making a point of not saying.
Rinaldo.
Rinaldo.
I'm sorry.
Are we going to the Teatro Michahelles?
Yes.
You got tickets.
No.  But I will.  In fact, I was just about to look here. 
Please not the third balcony.  I would like to see it.
Not in the balcony.  No matter what the cost.
What is your worst memory of childhood?
Can I help you, Mr. Krendler?
Jesus.  What are you doing sitting there in the dark?
Thinking.
Some people in Justice are thinking, too.  They're thinking, what exactly is she doing about Lecter?
Thinking.  About cannibalism.
What's the point of that, are you catching a crook, or writing a book?
Aren't you curious why he dines on his victims?
Not particularly, no.
To show his contempt for those who exasperate him, I think.
Or, sometimes, to perform a public service.  In the case of the flautist, Benjamin Raspail -  - he did it to improve the sound of the Baltimore Philharmonic Orchestra, serving the not-so-talented flute player's sweet- breads to the board with a nice Chateau d'Y quem at forty-six hundred dollars a bottle.  That meal began with green oysters from the Gironde, followed by the sweetbreads, a sorbet and then, you can read here in Town & Country:  A notable dark and glossy ragout, the constituents never determined, on saffron rice.  Its taste was darkly thrilling with great bass tones that only the vast and careful reduction of the fond can give.
I always figured him for a queer.
Now why would you say that, Paul?
All this artsy-fartsy stuff.  Chamber music and tea-party food.  Not that I mean anything personal, if you've got a lot of sympathy for those people.
What I came here to impress upon you, Starling, is I'd better see cooperation. There are no little fiefdoms.  I want to be copied on every 302.  Work with me and your so-called career here might improve. If you don't, all I have to do is draw a line through your name rather than under it, and it's over.
Paul?  What is it with you?  I told you to go home to your wife.  That was wrong?
Don't flatter yourself, Starling.  Why would I hold that against you?  That was a long time ago, and besides, this town is full of cornpone country pussy.
That said, I wouldn't mind having a go with you now if you want to reconsider.
In the gym, anytime.  No pads.
Yes?  Hel-lo?
I have information about Hannibal Lecter.
Does it include where he is now?
Is the reward still in effect?
Yes, it is.  Have you shared your infor- mation with the police, sir?
No.
I'm required to encourage you to do so.
Uh-huh.  Is the reward payable under ... special circumstances?
Do you mean a bounty?  It's against international convention and U.S. Law to offer a bounty for someone's death, sir.
I mean in the case of, say, someone who might not ordinarily be eligible to accept a reward.
May I suggest you contact an attorney, sir, before taking any possible-illegal action?  There's one in Geneva who's excellent in these matters. May I recommend an attorney?  May I give you his toll-free number?
Thank you for calling.
Hello -
Yes.  I was just speaking with someone who suggested I -
There is a one hundred thousand dollar advance.  To qualify for the advance, a fingerprint must be provided - in situ - on an object -  Once the print is positively identified, the balance of the money will be placed in escrow at Geneva Credit Suisse, and may be viewed at any time subject to 24- hour-prior-notification.  To repeat this message in French, press 2.  In Spanish, press 3.  In German, press 4.  In Japanese -
Is it possible it went out with the regular mail?
No.  No, I over-nighted it.  I filled out the slip myself.
This was the day after your request. I did it right away.  I don't understand what happened.  You should have it.
I don't.  Can you send me another one?
I'll have to make another one.
I'd appreciate it.
Nothing, huh?
Nothing yet.  Still waiting on Florence and London.  London says they're sniffing around.  I don't know, is that British humor?
Buongiorno.
Dr. Fell?  It's Inspector Pazzi.
Yes, I can see.
I should've encouraged you to bring someone along.  The cases, I'm afraid, are on the heavy side.
Maybe you could help me with them.
Hmmmm.
Just down the stairs I mean.
Is that the inventory?
Yes.
May I see it?
Of course.
You are a Pazzi of the Pazzi, I think.  Wasn't it at the Palazzo Vecchio your ancestor was hanged?  Francesco de'Pazzi? Thrown naked with a noose around his neck from the window?  Writhing alongside the archbishop against the cold stone wall?
I found a nice rendering of it here in the library the other day.  If you'd like perhaps I could sneak it out for you.
I'd think that might jeopardize your chances for permanent appointment to the curatorship.
Only if you told.  Remind me.  What was his crime?
He was accused of killing Giuliano de'Medici.
Unjustly?
No, I don't think so.
Then he wasn't just accused.  He did it. He was guilty.
I'd think that would make living in Florence with the name Pazzi uncomfortable, even 500 years later.
Not really.  In fact, I can't remember the last time - before today - someone brought it up.
But people don't always tell you what they're thinking ...  They just see to it you don't advance.  I'm sorry, I too often say what I'm thinking.  I'll be right back to help you.
Any developments in the Il Mostro case?
I believe my colleagues are checking suspects' homes to see if they have any Botticelli prints.
In their homes?  That would be rather obvious, wouldn't it?
Serial killers are obvious.  Their primary motivation is to be obvious, to be noticed.
But not caught.
Yes, that too, I think.
Not really.
Yes.
Hmmm.
By the way, the room you're standing in was built in the 15th-century.
It's beautiful.
Yes.  Unfortunately, I think the heating system was installed just about the same time.
All right, let's drag these things down. They're as heavy as bodies.
What would you like engraved on it, sir?
Nothing.
May I apply an anti-tarnish coating?
No.
What do you want?  Information?
What sort of information would you be willing to give me, Romula?  Names and descriptions of fifteen Gypsy pickpockets who never existed?  No, what I want is to get you out of here.  And to make your arrest record permanently disappear.  In exchange, all I want from you is the usual thing.  Only I want you to fail.
When you fumble for his wallet, he'll catch you by the wrist -
I've done this a few times, Inspector -
Not like this.  If there isn't a clean print on that bracelet -  - it's back to Sollicciano.
If there's a problem and someone helps, don't hurt him. My friend doesn't know anything, and won't take anything, let him run off.
There won't be a problem.  The man can't afford a problem.  He'll want to get away from you more than you will from him.
 Okay?
Sorry.
Excuse me.
That's the Devil.
So I'll drive you back to jail then.
Yes.
Two million lire.
Fine.
Give me the bracelet.
Wash your fuckin hands.
He's coming.
I got it.  He grabbed me just right. Tried to hit me in the balls, but he missed.
Jesus -
What - ?
Here, let me help you.
Middle finger of the left hand.  Sixteen point match.
Carlo?
Mason?
Ciao, Bello.  Come stai?  You have all your shots?  There's a nasty winter flu going around.
Am I coming to see you?
Soon, I think, but first I need you to pack off the boys.  Yes, I know, the day you never thought would arrive, has. Got a pencil?
You need to get certified cholera inoculations - well, not you - and Ace- promazine for sedation.  That's a-c-e-p-r- oh, the hell with it, you'll find it. Cordell will fax the Veterinary Service forms directly to Animal and Plant Health - but you need to get the veterinary affidavits from Sardinia.
The airbus will await you in Cagliari. Count Fleet Airlines.  The crates can be no larger than four-by-six - it's as bad as carry-on rules.  An on-board inspector has to travel with them.  They'll be met at Baltimore-Washington Airport - not the Key West quarantine facility - by my people who will clear them through Customs.  Va bene?
Got it.
How are they?
They're really big, Mason.  About two hundred and seventy kilos.
Wow.
Oh, I called at a good time.  I can hear that.  Would it be too much trouble to take the phone outside?
The full balance of the money is payable upon receipt of the doctor alive. (the same dry Swiss voice Pazzi heard on the phone recording) Of course, you won't have to seize him yourself, but merely point him out to us. In fact, it's preferable to all concerned if that's the extent of your involvement from this point.
I prefer to stay involved.  To make sure things go right.
Professionals will see to that, sir.
I'm a professional.
May I help you, sir?
Yes.  Yes, you may.
Enjoy the performance, Commendatore?
Very much.  Allegra, this is Dr. Fell, Curator of the Capponi Library.
Curator protempore, Signora Pazzi.  I'm honored.
Is that an American accent, doctor?
Canadian, wrung through the eastern sea- board of America.
I've always wanted to visit.  New England especially.
Umm.  It's nice.  I've enjoyed many excellent meals there.
Did I notice you following the score, Signora?  Hardly anyone does it anymore. Would this interest you?
I've marked in overlay some of the differences from the modern score, which might amuse you.  Please take it.
Look at this, Rinaldo.
I can see it.
I did have some trouble with the recitative at the beginning.
Dante's first sonnet from La Vita Nuova. He saw Beatrice Portinari across a chapel and he loved her at that instant and for the rest of his life.  But then had a disturbing dream -
 Joyous Love seemed to me, the while he held my heart in his hands, and in his arms, My lady lay asleep wrapped in a veil -
 He woke her then, and trembling and obedient, she ate that burning heart out of his hand.  Weeping, I saw him then depart from me.
He saw her eat his heart! (Fell likes that as much as she does) Do you believe a man could become so obsessed with a woman from a single encounter?
Could he daily feel a stab of hunger for her?  Find nourishment in the very sight of her?  I think so.  But would she see through the bars of his plight, and ache for him?
Thank you for this.
Commendatore.  A ...  lle ...  gra ...
Let's get something to eat.
 Yes, quite.
Could that be you, Doctor?
Please.
I want him in the open street with not a lot of people around.
How will you take him down?
That's my business.
It's my business too.
You're a cop, aren't you.
I asked you a question.
Yeah, you're a cop, all right.  I'll stun him with a beanbag gun, net him, give him a shot.
He has to lecture tomorrow night.  It won't be strange if I attend; he actually thinks I'm interested.  Can you do it that soon?
Will you walk with him or are you afraid of him?
I'll do what I'm paid to do and so will you, only I'll be better paid for it.
I want him out of Tuscany fast.
Believe me, he'll be gone from the face of the earth fast.  Feet first.
Questura.  Pandolfini.
I'd like to speak with Chief Inspector Rinaldo Pazzi, please.  I'm Agent Clarice Starling with the American FBI.
Pazzi.
Inspector Pazzi, it's Agent Starling with the FBI.  How do you do?
Actually I was just leaving for the day, can I call you back tomorrow?
This won't take long.  I'd appreciate it.
I wanted to thank you, first of all, for sending me the security tape from the perfume store.
When I say you, I mean your department. Agent Benetti.  Is he there?  Can I speak with him?
I'm sorry, he's gone home.
That's all right.  I should tell you this rather than him anyway -
I'm late for an important lec - an important appointment -
The person I'm looking for, Inspector - who was indeed shown on that tape - is Hannibal Lecter.
Who?
Dr. Hannibal Lecter.  You've never heard of him?  He's quite well-known, at least in America.
I'm sorry, I'm not familiar -
And the tape confirms that he is - or was recently - in Florence.
Really.
He's a very dangerous man, Inspector Pazzi.  He's killed nine people - that we know of.
We know about dangerous men around here, too, unfortunately.
Il Mostro.
Yes.  You don't think -
No, I don't.  The crimes of Il Mostro bear no resemblance to Lecter's in ... in style.
I really have to go, Miss -
Starling.  Just another minute.  Are you sure you've never heard of him?
I haven't -
Because I'm confused.  I'm confused by that because someone there has been accessing our private VICAP files on Dr. Lecter with some regularity, on your computer.
Everybody uses everybody's computer here. Maybe one of the detectives on Il Mostro was looking at profiles of killers to -
I'm speaking about the computer at your home, sir.
You're trying to catch him yourself, aren't you, Inspector?  For the reward. I cannot warn you strongly enough against that.  He killed three policemen down in Memphis, while he was in custody, tearing the face off one of them - and he will kill you too if you -
Avarice and hanging are linked in the medieval mind -
St. Jerome writes that Judas' very surname - Iscariot - means 'money,' or 'price.'
Ah, Commendatore Pazzi.
It wasn't easy, but I got this number without telling them why, Inspector Paz -
Sorry.
Not al all.  Welcome.  Since you are closest to the lights, would you be so kind as to dim the lights?
Thank you.  You'll be interested in this, Commendatore, since there is a Pazzi already in Dante's Inferno.
Here is the earliest known depiction of the Crucifixion, carved on an ivory box in Gaul about A.D.  Four Hundred.  It includes the death by hanging of Judas, his face upturned to the branch that suspends him.  And here he is, on the doors of the Benevento Cathedral, hanging with his bowels falling out as St. Luke the physician described him in the Acts of the Apostles - still looking up.
In this plate, from a fifteenth- century edition of the Inferno, Pier della Vigna's body hangs from a bleeding tree.  I will not belabor the obvious parallel with Judas Iscariot.
But Dante Alighieri needed no drawn illustration.  It is his genius to make Pier della Vigna, now in Hell, speak in strained hisses and coughing sibilants as though he is hanging still.  Listen as he drags with the other damned his own dead body to hang upon the thorn tree:
Come l'altre verrem per nostre spoglie, ma no pero ch'alcuna sen rivesta, che non e giusto aver cio ch'om si toglie. Qui le strascineremo, e per la mesta selva saranno i nostri corpi appesi, ciascuno al prun de l'ombra sua molesta.
Avarice, hanging, self-destruction, with avarice counting as self-destruction as much as hanging.  And what does the anonymous Florentine suicide say in his torment at the end of the canto?  Io fei gibetto a me de le mie case. I - I make my own house be my gallows.  Thank you for your kind attention.
I'm not a scholar, but I think you've got the job.  Can I buy you a celebratory drink?
How kind of you.  Yes, I'd like that. I'll just be a minute gathering my things.
Allegra, cara, I'll be home just a little later than I said.  I'm taking Dr. Fell out for a drink.
I can see the people coming out now.
Oh, I should've shown them this one. I can't imagine how I missed it.  This one will interest you.
Can you make it out all right?
There's a name down here, can you see it?
It's your ancestor, Commendatore. Hanging beneath these very windows.  On a related subject, I must confess to you I'm giving serious thought to eating your wife.
If you tell me what I need to know, Commendatore, it would be convenient for me to leave without my meal.  I'll ask you questions and then we'll see.
Was it Mason Verger you sold me to? Blink twice for yes.  Yes.  Thank you. Are his men waiting outside?  Umm hmmm. And one of them smells like tainted boar sausage?  Was that a single blink?  Oh, now you're confused.  Try not to be confused or I may have to fillet Signora Pazzi after all.  Have you told anyone in the Questura about me?  No, I thought not.  Have you told A-lle-gra?  No. You're sure?  I believe you.
Here we go.  Hold on.
Your heart is palpitating.  I can see it.
No.  That's not your heart.
Who could that be?  Should I answer it?
 Pronto.
I've gone above you, Inspector.  I've spoken to your section chief.  Someday you'll thank me - or you won't - I don't care - you'll be alive.  Inspector Pazzi?
I'm afraid I have bad news, Clarice.
Is he dead?
You got my note.  I hope you liked the hand cream.  I had it made especially for you.
Is he dead, Dr. Lecter?
Clarice, there's nothing I'd love more in the world than to chat with you. Unfortunately, you've caught me at an awkward moment.  Forgive me.
An old friend.
What do you think?  Bowels in?  Or out, like Cousin Francesco?
Oh, now you are confused.  I'll decide for you, if you'll permit me.
Cover the back.  If he comes out just kill him, cut him.
Young man, if I'm not at the Piazza Bellosquardo in ten minutes, my wife will kill me.
That's all you want?  A ride?
That's all.
Cordell?  To you:  Does that look like a wave goodbye? ... Or hello?
Starling.
Don't tell anyone but I'm sitting here watching an mpeg off the VICAP of a man swinging from a rope against a building in Florence.
It's an electrical cord, Mr. Crawford, and you know you shouldn't be doing that.
Ummm, I can't see it that clearly but I can see his intestines hanging out.  And the figure on the balcony waving.
If I was concerned -
You should be concerned.  Where do you think he'll go, now that you've disturbed his comfortable life?
Not here.  Somewhere else he can live without denying himself the things he likes.
What does he like?
You know.  Good food, good wine, music, books -
He likes you, Starling.  Seven years gone, not a trace, and he writes to you. You know what that means.
No.
The stalker who says he likes you is far more dangerous than the one who says he wants to kill you.
You have to turn around - or back down - go half a mile up the frontage road to a gate - then up the service road.
I don't understand what you think he can offer.
A second opinion, doctor.  I know that's anathema to those in your profession, but it's not in mine.
Speak of the devil.  Welcome, Barney. I'm Mason.  This is Dr. Doemling, who is head of the Baylor University Psychology Department.  He holds the Verger Chair.
How do you do?
I see you've brought dessert.  That's very kind.  Cookies?  I might be able to get a cookie down somehow.  So Barney - is Barney your real name by the way?
Yes.
First of all, Barney, thank you for the wealth of wonderful items you've provided me from your personal Lecter treasure trove.  I've enjoyed them immensely.
Thank you for outbidding everyone.  Is Mason your real name?
Oh, yes.  Please sit.  Yes, beside Dr. Doemling is fine.  That's his real name, too.  There.  Good.  Now -
Barney, if I could ask, what exactly is your professional training?
I have an LPN.
You're a licensed practical nurse.
Yes.
Good for you.
Okay, everybody has everybody's real names and credentials now.  Except mine. Mine are, well, I'm just very wealthy, aren't I?  Okay.  Let's begin.
Barney, while you were working at the state hospital - I assume not as licensed practical nurse -
- as an orderly -
- as an orderly - you observed Clarice Starling and Hannibal Lecter interacting.
Interacting?
Talking to one another.
Yes.  Yes, it seemed to me they -
I can see you're eager to justify your consulting fee, but why don't we start with what you saw, not what you thought about what you saw.
Barney's smart enough to give us his opinion.  Barney, give us your opinion of what you saw.  What was it between them?
Most of the time Dr. Lecter didn't respond at all to visitors, he would just, for instance, open his eyes long enough to insult some academic who was there to look him over.  With Starling, though, he answered her questions.  She interested him.  She intrigued him.  He thought she was charming and amusing.
Uh-huh.
You can judge what Hannibal Lecter found amusing?  Just how do you go about that, Nurse Barney?
By listening to him laugh, Dr. Dumling.
Doemling.
Sometimes Dr. Lecter and I would talk when things got quiet enough.  About the science courses I was taking and -
Some kind of mail-order courses in psychology?
No, sir.  I don't consider psychology a science, and neither did Dr. Lecter.
And about her?  You talked about her?
I can just repeat what he told me about her.
That's why you're here.
He said things like how she was charming the way a cub is charming a small cub that will grow up to be a big cat - one that you can't play with later. She had a cub-like earnestness, he said.
Does she still in your opinion?  Have you seen her lately?
Yes, I have, and no, I don't think she does.  That quality in her, I think, is gone.
So Clarice Starling and Hannibal Lecter became ... friendly.
Inside a kind of formal structure, yes.
And he was fond of her.
Yes.
Thank you, Barney.  Thank you very much for your candor.  And keep all those wonderful products coming.  Cordell, see that Barney receives a real nice tip.
Goodbye, Nurse Barney.
 Mr. Verger -
The cookies.  Yes, let's have one.
It's not cookies.
How much?
Two hundred and fifty.  Thousand.
Cut Barney a check, Cordell.  Now.
So what do you think, doctor?  Does Lecter want to fuck her or kill her or eat her or what?
Probably all three, though I wouldn't want to predict in what order.
Hmmm.
No matter how Barney might want to romanticize it and try to make it Beauty and the Beast, Lecter's object - as you know from personal experience - is always degradation and suffering.  He comes in the guise of a mentor - as he did to you - and her - but it's distress that excites him.  To draw him - if that's the goal - she needs to be distressed.  If you want to make her attractive to him, let him see her distressed.  Let the damage he sees suggest the damage he could do.
When the fox hears a rabbit scream, he comes running ... but not to help.
Don't say a word.
Stop.  Catch your breath.  Take your gun out very slowly with your left hand, set it on the ground and take five steps away from it.
All right.  Who are you?
We work for Jack Crawford.  We're supposed to keep an eye on you.  To keep you safe from - you know - Hannibal the Cannibal.
Show me.
Okay, here it is:  I don't need you looking after me.  I'm not in any danger. If you talk to him before I do tell him that.
Yes, ma'am.
Sorry if I hurt you.
I'm not sure I understand.
You don't have to understand, Paul.  All you have to understand is what it's worth to you.
No, I don't understand why she didn't turn this over; she's such a - straight arrow.
She didn't turn it over because she didn't receive it.  She didn't receive it because it was never delivered to her. It was delivered to me for a nice gratuity to a not-so-nice mail room boy.
Oh.  Ohhh.
So what do you think?
I think you'd have been better off if you hadn't gotten her out of trouble in the first place.
Woulda, shoulda, coulda - I meant, what do you think of the money?
Five.
Well, let's just toss it off like, "five."  Let's say it with the respect it deserves.
Five hundred thousand dollars.
That's better, but not much, but don't say it again.  Will it work?
It won't be pretty.
What ever is?
Would you identify yourself, please, for the record.
Special Agent Clarice Starling.  Is there a record, Director Noonan?  I'd like there to be since I have no idea what this is about.  Do you mind if I run a tape?
Tell her the charges.
Withholding evidence and obstruction of justice.
Like to comment?  On tape?
Yes, I would.  I've never seen this before in my life.
How do you account for it being found in your - office - your - basement?
Found by who?
By me.
I don't think you want me to answer that, Mr. Krendler.  Let me ask you this:  What possible reason might I have to withhold it?
Perhaps because of the nature of its content.  It reads like a - like a love letter to me.
Has it been tested for prints?
No prints on it.  None on the last one.
Handwriting  - ?
 Did you ever think, Clarice, why the Philistines don't understand you?  It's because you're the answer to Samson's riddle:  You are the honey in the lion. Sounds like him to me.
Do you mean, Mr. Krendler, like a homosexual?
Like a nut with a crush.
Clarice, I'm placing you on administrative leave until Document Analysis tells me, unequivocally, a mistake's been made.  In the meantime you'll remain eligible for insurance and medical benefits. Please surrender your weapons and identification to Agent Pearsall.
Backup sidearm?
Locked in my car.
Other tactical equipment?
Helmet and vest.
 You'll retrieve those when you escort Miss Starling from the building.
I want to say something.  I think I'm entitled.
Go ahead.
I think Mr. Mason Verger is trying to capture Dr. Lecter himself for the purpose of personal revenge.  I think Mr. Krendler is in collusion with him and wants the FBI'S effort against Dr. Lecter to work for Mr. Verger.  I think Mr. Krendler is being paid to do this.
It's a good thing you're not sworn here today.
Swear me!  You swear, too!
Starling.  If the evidence is lacking, you'll be entitled to full reinstatement without prejudice - if you don't do - or say - something in the meantime that would make that impossible.
Sorry, Starling.
- relieved of field duty pending an internal investigation into the charges. Starling, a 7-year vetern on the Bureau began her career with an assignment to interview lethal madman, Hannibal Lecter -
- Doctor -
May I help you, sir?
I was looking for some good steak knives, Toby, but I'm afraid I got distracted.
Kitchenware, right over there.
Thank you.
- receiving information from him which led to killer Jame Gumb and the release of his hostage Catherine Martin, daughter of the former U.S. Senator from Tennessee.
Hey.  It's Jack.  How you doing?  I'm sure it's not as bad as it looks.  I feel it's my fault.  I got you into all this. Call me.  Make me feel better.
It's Barney.  Remember me?  I got your number from, uh - I mean I know it's un- listed, but, I, ummm, I'm pretty good on the computer ... - save a few bucks on my phone bill, don't arrest me -  I'm sorry, uh - about what happened to you.  I feel bad.  For you.  I was, umm, wondering if you might want to call me if you get the chance - 555-7026.  I think she's nice.  She's always been nice to me.  Polite.  Don't you think?
Do you know what a roller pigeon is, Barney?
They climb high and fast, then roll over and fall just as fast toward the earth.  There are shallow rollers and deep rollers.  You can't breed two deep rollers, or their young will roll all the down, hit, and die.  Officer Starling is a deep roller, Barney.  We should hope one of her parents was not.
If you're not receiveing frequent flyer miles on your credit card, you're missing out on -
The power on that battery is low, Clarice.  I would've changed it, but I didn't want to wake you.  You're going to have to use the other one.  In the charger.  Hopefully the light on it is green by now.
- because this is going to be a long call and I can't let you off because - even though you've been stripped of your duties, I know you won't abandon them, you'll try to put on a trace.  So we'll disconnect only long enough for you to exchange the battery in the phone for the one in the charger.  Shall we say - three seconds?  That should be enough.  You can change the clip on a .45 quicker than that.  So when I tell you to, disengage the dying battery.  That'll disconnect us.  I'll speed dial back.  If you've succeeded in your task in the allotted time - wonderful.  If not? Well maybe some other time.  Are you ready?
Yes.
Go.
Very good.
Thank you.
Get in your car.
Oh, all right, bring the guns if you want.  But remember, if you get caught with a concealed, unlicensed firearm in the District of Columbia, the penalty is pretty stiff.
The reason we're doing it like this, Clarice, is because I'd like to see you as we speak.  With your eyes open.  No, it doesn't excite me.  Yes, it pleases me.  You have very shapely feet. Call it out.
Exit 14-A.  Three hundred yards - two hundred - one hundred - fifty -
Take it.
I thought, to begin, you might tell me how you're feeling.
About what?
The masters you serve and how they've treated you.  Your career, such as it is. Your life, Clarice.
I thought we might talk about yours.
Mine?  What is there to say about mine? I'm happy.  Healthy.  A little nomadic at the moment but that'll soon change.  You, though.  You, I'm worried about.
I'm fine.
No, you're not.  You fell in love with the Bureau - with The Institution - only to discover, after giving it everything - that it doesn't love you back.  That it resents you, more than the husband and children you gave up to it ever would.
Why is that, do you think?  Why are you so resented?
Tell me.
Tell you?  Isn't it clear?  You serve the idea of order, Clarice - they don't. You believe in the oath you took - they don't.  You feel it's your duty to protect the sheep - they don't.  They don't like you because they're not like you.  They're weak and unruly and believe in nothing.
Mason Verger wants to kill you, Dr. Lecter.  Turn yourself in to me and I promise no one will hurt you.
Will you stay with me in my prison cell? Hmmm?  I suppose it wouldn't be that much worse than yours.
Mason doesn't want to kill me, Clarice, any more than I wanted to kill him.  He wants me to suffer in some - unimaginable way.  He's rather twisted, you know. Always has been.  Have you had the pleasure?
I have.
Attractive, isn't he.  But back to you -
I want to know what it is you think you will do, now that all you cared about in the world is gone.  Will you work as a chambermaid at a motel on Route 66, like Mom?
I don't know, Dr. Lec -
Don't you want to harm those who have forced you to consider it?  I know you never would, but wouldn't you like to? Wouldn't it feel good?  It's all right to admit it.  It's perfectly natural.  To want to taste the enemy.
Are you thinking?  Or tracking, Ex- Special Agent Starling?
They're following me, Dr. Lecter.
I know.  I see them.  Now you're in a real dilemma, aren't you? Do you continue to try to find me, knowing that you're leading them to me? Do you have so much faith in your abilites that you believe you could somehow - simultaneously - arrest me - and them?  It could get messy, Clarice. Like Memphis.
What if I did it for you?
Did what?
Harmed them, Clarice.  The ones who've harmed you.  What if I made them scream apologies?  No, I shouldn't even say it because you'll feel - with your perfect grasp on right and wrong - that you were somehow - accompli - even though you wouldn't be.
Don't - help me.
No.  Of course not.  Forget I said it.
Ho - Ho - Ho.
Ho, ho, ho, indeed.  I think I'll be going now.  I have some shopping to do anyway.  Chin up, Clarice.  Merry Christmas.
You're sure it was Chateau d'Y quem.
Not only was it Chateau d'Y quem, it was Chateau d'Y quem - sixty-seven.  The best bottle of wine in the store.
Can I see the tape?  If his car was parked out front, you may have caught the license plate.
Hold it!  FBI!  On the ground!
I know the first thing a hysteric says is, "I'm not a hysteric," but I'm not a hysteric.  I'm calm.
I'll ask you one time.  Think before you answer.  Think about every good thing you ever did here.  Think about what you swore.  What did you see?
Two men in a van.  A third driving. Another man shot and put into the back. I've given you the license plate and I'm reporting it all again to you, Clint Pearsall, at SAC Buzzard's Point.
All right.  I'll go with it as a kidnapping.  I'll send someone out there with the local authorities - if he'll let us on the property without a warrant -
I'm going, too.  You could deputize -
You're not going.  Unless you want to be arrested.  You're going home where you'll wait for me to call and tell you what, if anything, we found.
Please thank Mr. Verger for letting us look around.  Sorry if we inconvenienced him.
Not at all.  He's always happy to see you.  He also wanted me to wish you and your families a Merry Christmas for him, and to assure you this'll not effect, in any way, his annual contribution to the Police Benevolence Fund.
Nothing here, Clint ... We're sure.
How is he?
Sleeping.
Bring him home.
Pick up, Starling... There was nothing out there... I'm going to say it again in case you didn't hear me clearly before: You are not a law officer while on suspension.  You're Joe Blow.  For your sake I hope you're just in the bathroom.
Hylochoerus Meinertzhageni ... Does that ring a bell from high school biology, doctor?  No?  I could list its most conspicuous features if that would help jog the memory.
Three pairs of incisors, one pair of elongated canines, three pairs of molars, four pairs of pre-molars upper and lower, for a total of forty-four teeth.
The meal will begin with an apertivo tartare.  Your feet.  The main course - the rest of you - won't be served until seven hours later, but during that time you'll be able to enjoy the effects of the consumed appetizer with a full- bodied saline drip.
Much as I'd love to, I won't be joining you at the table since I can't move, but I will be watching a 3-camera video feed here, and I'll try to stay awake. (he smiles as much as he's able; then) I guess you wish now you'd fed the rest of me to the dogs?  Hmmm?
No, Mason.  I much prefer you the way you are.
 So.  Dinner at eight?  Bon appetit.
Your brother must smell worse than you do by now.
No, no, no - don't hurt him.
And turn off that radio, I can't hear anything.
What was that?  Cordell?  Did you see that?
Hold it!  Hands where I can see -
Down!
Good evening, Clar -
Shut up.
Can you walk?
Well, I don't know.  May I try?
I'm going to cut you loose.  If you touch me, I'll shoot you.
Understood perfectly.
Do right and you'll live through this.
Spoken like a Protestant.
This might go a little quicker if you give me the knife.
Clarice?
What.
My back was turned when you came in. Was that a warning shot, or did you kill the one in the loft?
Why aren't they - ?  Cordell -
I have to go now -
No.  In the drawer - right by your hand.  Open it.  Open it!
Take it.  Go down there.  Shoot him.
No, I -
You're involved is what you are.
What did you say - ?
I said you're involved.  In all of it.
Good.  Now -
Good night, Mason.
I'll be out at my weekend place through Sunday.  I don't want any calls forwarded.  No, not even him.  Nobody.
Oh, good, you brought wine.
Are those shallots?
Ummm.  And caper berries.
The butter smells wonderful.
I hope you're hungry, Paul.
Very.  What's the main course?
Oh, you never ask.  It spoils the surprise.
I don't have the address, but I think the house belongs to the hostage, whose name is Paul Krendler -
I have it from the phone number.  Now if you can safely do it, get out of the house.  Otherwise, stay on the line where you are.  The response time should be ten minutes.  I'm putting you on hold for just a moment.
I'm back.  Ma'am - ?
Clarice.  What are you doing up? You should be resting.  Get back to bed.
I'm hungry.
Hello, Paul.
Paul.  Don't be rude.  Say hello to Agent Starling.
Hello, Starling.  I always wanted to watch you eat.
Would you like to say grace?
Me?  Grace?  Okay.
Father, we thank thee for the blessings we are about to receive and dedicate them to Thy mercy.  Forgive us all, even white trash like Starling here, and bring her into my service.  Amen.
Paul, I have to tell you, the Apostle Paul couldn't have done better.  He hated women, too.
May I have some wine?
I don't think that's a good idea, Clarice.  Not with the morphine.  Better you should have some broth.
By the way, Starling, that was a job offer I worked into the blessing.  I'm going to Congress, you know.
Are you?
Come around campaign headquarters. You could be an office girl.  Can you type and file?  Can you take dictation? Take this down:  Washington is full of cornpone country pussy.
I already took that down.  You said it before.
Paul.  Please.  Now you are being rude. Drink your broth.
This soup's not very good.
I admit I added a little something extra to yours.  Perhaps it's clashing with the cumin.  I assure you, though, you'll love the second course, that is if I can serve it before Clarice bashes my head in.
Hey, that's mine.
I really would like some wine.
All right.  But just a little.
Unlike Paul, I unfortunately can't offer you a job in government.  But I am curious.  What will you do now?
Doctor Lec -
You certainly can't return to the bureau.  Not that you'd want to.  Even if you could convince them to take you back after all this, the Stain of Rein- statement would never go away.
What did you say?
I didn't say anything.
I had plans for that smart mouth, but I'd never hire you now.  Who gave you an appointment anyway?
The brain itself feels no pain, Clarice, if that concerns you.  And Paul certainly won't miss this - the prefrontal lobe is the seat of manners.
Dr. Lecter, your profile at the border stations has five features.  I'll trade you.  Stop now and I'll tell you what they are.
Trade?  How does that word taste to you, Clarice?  Cheap and metallic like sucking on a greasy coin to me.  Your soup is getting cold.
That smells great.
Have a taste, Paul.
Ummm, it is good.
Dr. Lec -
No, I think a new life lies before you. A better life.  With me?  Hmmm, there's a thought.
I came halfway around the world just to watch you run in the woods.  Run with me, Clarice.
Who's Clarice?
Agent Starling, Paul.  If you can't keep up with the conversation, it's better you don't try to join in at all.
Who?
Me, Paul.  I'm Starling.
I don't think you could even answer my phones, whoever you are.  That accent is just too - Appalachian.  "The Honorable Paul Krendler's office."
Paul?
What.
Remember what I said before?  If you can't be polite to the other guests, you have to sit at the kids' table.
I'll just be a minute cleaning up, Clarice.  Don't get up, Paul will help me clear.
Think about what I said, but don't drink any more wine while you do.  Doctor's orders.
Would you like to swing on a star - Carry moonbeams home in a jar -
That's my girl.  If you hadn't tried, I would have killed you ... But don't try again ... I mean it.
Oh, Clarice, you are the honey in the lion.  In times to come, whenever you see yourself naked, whenever you see the scar - the quality of the stitching - you'll remember this moment -
- and your lips will burn.
How are you covering yourself?
Polaroids, monkey business, and none of your business.  I'm not going to run. One-point-five-mil, Ricky, flat fee.
No discussion.  Just yes or no.
Yes.  We'll make the transfer at the Sun Trust conference room in the vault. I'll bring my lockbox, you bring yours.
And we'll join the party, too.  That's it, Starling.  You just made us our ten percent.  And all you had to do was put on sun screen.
You don't need to hide it.  Your doctor did a nice job.  You can hardly see it -
What's that?
Which?
That.
Liver.
What are those?
Figs.
And that?
That I don't think you'd like.
It looks good.
It is good.
Can I have some?
You're a very unusual boy, aren't you?
I didn't eat what they gave me.
Nor should you have.  It's not even food, as I understand the definition.  Which is why I always travel with my own. (the boy smiles; Lecter smiles) Are you sure your mother wouldn't disapprove of your accepting food from a stranger?
She would.
Ah, but she's asleep.
Which would you like to try?
This?
I suppose it's all right.  After all, as I'm sure your mother tells you - mine certainly did:  It is important to always try new things.
