Billy Boy! J.D. BANKS  enters the office.
Get your ass ready! It's almost five o'clock and this bad boy needs to get his drink on! J.D. notices his friend pining over the photo.
Oh God. Give me that.     I'm burning it once and for all. J.D. snatches the photo, and pulls out his lighter. Just as the flame is about to touch the photo, BILLY grabs it back.
Don't!
Dude, it's been six months.    You have to move on. BILLY nods knowingly.
You know what'll cheer you up? Some hot chick riding your jock all night long.
You're such a romantic, J.D.
It would help get your mind off of Sarah. BILLY ponders this for a moment.
Whatever. Even if I wanted to meet other women, I wouldn't even know what to do. I've been out of the game so long.
Billy, you come out with me tonight, and I promise you'll get laid.
Sounds tempting, but I can't. Berenson needs me to update the financial models for his meeting with the foreign investors.
So what? It's Friday!      You have all weekend to do that.
No I don't. The Germans are taking an earlier flight back, so the meeting's been moved to tomorrow. J.D. thinks for a moment.
Well, why don't you just get somebody else to do your work then?
Who? J.D. gets a big smile on his face.    He has an idea.
Harold, listen, I need you to update these models for me.
 But aren't you supposed to...
I know, but something came up. I have to meet with some clients tonight, so I won't be able to get to it. It's your responsibility now. Okay? Harold doesn't like this, but before he even has a chance to protest, J.D. steps forward...
And make sure it's in tomorrow by nine o'clock sharp.
With all the downsizing going on around here, we wouldn't want to have to tell Berenson that you've been slacking. He's just dying to figure out who he should fire next.
Uh...okay...no problem... BILLY drops a big stack of papers on Harold's desk.
Wow!   I can't believe how easy that was!
Dude, how do you think I get all my shit done? I'm telling you -- those Asian guys love crunching numbers. You probably just made his weekend. The guys have reached J.D.'S CONVERTIBLE.
Now get ready. It's time we embark on...Operation Get Some! And with that, J.D. presses a button in his car that causes the top of the convertible to go down and a funky white boy song kicks in. Intercut:
Fuck.
Mononucleosis or mono is an infection caused by the Epstein-Barr virus. Symptoms may include fever, sore throat, headaches, white patches on the back of your throat, swollen glands, sluggishness and loss of appetite.
Excellent, Kumar. I have to say you're one of the best applicants I've ever interviewed. Not that it's a surprise. Your father is very respected in his field. You know he and I had some pretty wild times when we were in med school.
Really?
Yeah. We started our own basketball team-- the Hemoglobin Trotters...  Yeah, we were crazy. Kumar nods and smiles.   Woodruff finally stops laughing...
Anyway-- just one more question.  What are some potential symptoms of pancreatitis?
Let's see. There might be epigastric tenderness, diffuse abdominal tenderness... Suddenly, we hear what sounds like be a match being lit, a gurgle, and a cough -- the distinct sounds of somebody smoking from a bong. Dr. Woodruff is confused. Kumar pulls out his cell phone. It's his personalized ringer.
 I'm sorry. Can you hold on one second? Kumar stands up and answers his cell phone.
 Kumar's phone. Kumar speaking.  Oh, hey.  Nothing important. I can talk. What's up? Dr. Woodruff is offended. He takes a sip of from a mug of coffee and watches as Kumar begins pacing around the office. Intercut:
I'm not gonna be able to partake in our usual Friday night ritual. I've gotta stay late at the office.
 Fuck that shit! We had plans! Dr. Woodruff can't believe Kumar's choice of words.
I know, but I gotta get this work done.
Oh come on! When has getting high ever prevented you from finishing your work? Dr. Woodruff is so shocked that the mug of coffee simply slips out of his hands. Hot coffee goes all over his shirt. Woodruff yells and starts wiping his shirt with a napkin.
Listen, I'd love to go home, but...
No fucking buts! I just bought a quarter of the finest herb in New York City, and I'm not smoking it alone.
So you're just gonna have to chill the fuck out, bring your work home, and prepare to get blazed, because in a couple of hours I expect both of us to be blitzed out of our skulls. Got it?...Okay good. See you later. Kumar hangs up the phone and sits back down.      Dr. Woodruff is stunned.
 Okay, where was I? Oh yes. More symptoms of pancreatitis. Um...decreased bowel sounds, possibly fever, dehydration, and sometimes even shock.
 Mr. Patel. This is supposed to be a proper interview. Do you actually believe after the way you've behaved that I would ever even consider recommending you for admission?
No.    I'd actually be pretty surprised. Dr. Woodruff is flustered.   He doesn't know how to react.
Look, I'm just interviewing so my dad will keep paying for my apartment. I'm not really planning on going to med school.
 But...you have perfect MCAT scores!
Well, I'm not an idiot. Dr. Woodruff is at a loss for words. Kumar notices a framed picture of a HOT TEENAGE GIRL on Dr. Woodruff's desk. He picks it up.
Wow!    Is this your daughter? A disturbed Dr. Woodruff grabs the portrait out of Kumar's hands.
Yes!   Right in front... Harold carefully lines up his car to parallel park. As he starts to pull in, A YELLOW JEEP STEALS THE SPOT FROM BEHIND. The jeep is loaded with "alternative" stickers, and has a KAYAK, HANG-GLIDER, and other sports equipment on the roof. Harold almost hits the JEEP. He knows this car.
 Those assholes. The driver, COLE (20's, asshole, high energy, intense, loud mouth), puts down his window... COLE is joined in the jeep with his EXTREME SPORTS PUNK FRIENDS, who all laugh at Harold.
 This is America, dude! Learn how to drive!
Okay, be yourself. Don't be nervous.
So Maria, what's been going on?
Oh, nothing. It's just been a long week. How about you?
My week was great. Work wasn't too bad. I caught up on some sleep. Plus, the guy who works next to me decided to bathe for a change.
Really?
 Oh wait, I meant the exact opposite of that. Work sucked. I barely slept. And the guy next to me still smells like crap. But a man can dream, right?
So what are you up to tonight?
Actually, I'm probably gonna work out a little bit, clean up the apartment, and then go over to my boyfriend's place. He's cooking me a really nice dinner.
 Really?
 Oh wait, I meant the exact opposite of that.  I'll actually probably just sit on my ass, eat a pint of Hagaan Daz, and watch Blind Date.
 That sounds awful. Harold laughs, as does Maria.    They smile at each other...
Well, if you want some company, maybe you could sit on your ass at my place.
 Maybe.
Bye.
Bye.
Kumar?
Yeah, I'm in here! Harold walks over to Kumar's room and looks inside. It's Martha Stewart's nightmare-- dirty laundry all over the floor, etc. On his walls we see old school gangsta rap posters. MARIJUANA PARAPHERNALIA is everywhere. We see a Giant Photograph of Kumar with his arm around Mr. T. Kumar is not in the room, however.
Kumar?
In here... Curious, Harold walks over to HIS ROOM (neat, tidy, IKEA furnishings), where he sees KUMAR STANDING BUTT NAKED IN FRONT OF A FULL-LENGTH MIRROR. There's a "clipping sound" coming from Kumar's direction. Harold stares at him, shocked and appalled. Harold walks inside...
Kumar, what the hell are you doing!
I'm trimming my pubes. Kumar looks at himself in the mirror as he makes a couple more snips. On the floor, we see LARGE CLUMPS OF HAIR.
Why aren't you doing this in your room!
The mirror's in here.  Hey, check it out! It looks like a Bonsai tree!
I'm gonna puke. Get your clothes on.
Chill out. It makes my Johnson look bigger. Besides, if I don't do this, I'll end up with pubes like my dad. You've seen Osama Bin Laden's beard, right? HAROLD notices something...
Are those my scissors? Oh my God!     I trim my nose hair with those!
Dude, I've been cutting my ass hair with them for the past six months.
 So what the hell is your problem, anyway?
Other than my roommate's boney ass?
 One of the senior analysts asked me to do a bunch of his work for him tonight. Kumar walks back into Harold's room...
I assume you gave him the appropriate "go fuck yourself."
If by "go fuck yourself" you mean "no problem sir" then yes, he got the message loud and clear. KUMAR shakes his head in disgust...
Oh, no wonder you tried cancelling on me today. Dude, you gotta learn how to say "no" once in a while. Now lets get high.
No.   I got a lot of work to finish. Kumar shuts Harold's laptop.
Fuck that! You'll have plenty of time to get that shit done later. Come on, let's smoke a couple joints. Harold thinks for a moment and then caves...
One joint.
One and a half. Now let's do this... Kumar exits the room... HAROLD hangs his jacket up in his closet, which we see organized in rows of suits and button downs.
Don't you think you should take at least one of your interviews seriously? At some point your dad's gonna get really pissed.
So what? It's not like there's a shortage of Dr. Patel's out there. My dad's a doctor. My brother's a doctor. Just because everyone in my family went to med school, doesn't mean I have to.
Well, then what are you going to do?
I'll tell you what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna smoke this fat blunt, get ridiculously high, and then get something to eat.
Sounds like a plan.
I think we've already seen this one. Harold changes the channel...
Marijuana kills.
I love that shit! Harold continues flipping channels...
We see a News report
Tonight...a Cheetah escaped from the Morristown Zoo... ANGLE - Harold and Kumar Harold's not interested.       He continues flipping...
Nice.   Sixteen Candles is on.
And the award for least heterosexual statement ever made in this apartment goes to...
 ...Harold Lee! Come on down! Take a bow!
Oh come on. It's a John Hughes movie! It's a classic! It's a beautiful story about someone who feels unnoticed, unappreciated, unloved...
Hey look!   It's you! Kumar points to the TV where we see a CLIP FROM SIXTEEN CANDLES--[Long Duk Dong talking about quiche/round pie] Kumar laughs.   Harold isn't amused. We see another CLIP [Long Duk talking about the chores he does for the grandparents].
Hey, when are you gonna start doing some chores around here? Harold gives Kumar a "don't even joke" look. He then violently grabs the bong from Kumar and lights it. Kumar laughs as Harold exhales a lot of smoke...
We're so high right now.
We're not low.
I don't know about you, but I'm hungry as balls.
No shit!    Let's eat! HAROLD bends down and picks up A BUNCH OF DELIVERY MENUS that have been left on the floor...
Nah, I don't feel like delivery tonight.
What about KFC?
Nah, we've been there too many times.  I want something we haven't had in awhile. Something different. Something that'll really hit the spot. I want the perfect food...
You're sure you know how to get there?   I haven't been to White Castle in ages.
I'm telling you, there's one right around the corner from that multiplex in New Brunswick. They walk down the hallway, stopping at another apartment. On the side of the doorway is a MEZUZAH IN THE SHAPE OF A NAKED WOMAN. Harold and Kumar walk in without knocking...
Rosenberg, Goldstein-- get up.    We're going to White Castle. Rosenberg and Goldstein continue staring at the TV...
Wait-- we're watching The Gift on HBO.
No waiting.   We're starving... Out of the corner of Kumar's eye, he notices Harold grabbing a piece of beef jerky from Rosenberg & Goldstein's coffee table.
 ...Put that down! We're not eating `til we get to White Castle. Harold acts like he's going to put the jerky back, but as soon, as Kumar turns his attention back to Rosenberg and Goldstein, he slips it his pocket.
 Now come on guys, let's go.
Sorry man! We're not going anywhere. Supposedly, Katie Holmes shows her milk paps in this movie!
Is that all you Jews ever think about? Tits?
We're talking about Katie Holmes here. You would never think a sweet, innocent girl like her would ever take her top off. Which is precisely why we have to watch her do it.
Dude, the things I'd eat out of her ass, you have no idea.  Bacon, shellfish, milk with meat, you name it...
 That's a very vulgar statement.
So is "I want to pound Britney Spears in the pussy." But it's true.
Touch.  Anyway, if you guys want to wait till the movie's over... HAROLD and KUMAR have already shut the door.
What the hell are you bringing that for? Harold hands Kumar his keys.
You're driving. I'm gonna try to get some of my work done in the car. Kumar then checks his pockets and comes up empty.
Shit, I forgot my cell phone.
Why don't you just run back and get it?
 Nah, we've gone too far. Reveal that the guys are less than 20 feet from their door. "Bing!" The elevator door opens and the guys enter.
Hey, there's your girlfriend. You actually gonna talk to her this time?
What the hell are you doing? That was a perfect opportunity! You could have asked her if she wanted to go to White Castle. Harold doesn't say anything.   He looks down in shame.
You're worthless.
I'm not worthwhile.
Dude, it's only awkward because you're a pussy. Just talk to her once and I promise you it won't be weird anymore...
It doesn't matter. The only girls interested in me are girls I have no interest in. Like Cindy Kim.
Speaking of Cindy, she called earlier. One of those 58 Asian clubs she's in is throwing a party at her dorm tonight.
God, she invites me to everything.
So what? She's fucking cute.     Let her touch your penis. They exit the front door of the building...
Hey look, it's the Brother's McFag!  Let me guess, the yellow one's the catcher!
 Come on, guys! Let's get ourselves some fucking Mountain Dew!
Why do I have to be the catcher?
Dude, forget about those pricks.    Let's just go. They continue walking...
 Jesus, that took forever. You know the purpose of a car is to avoid walking.  And what kind of parking job is this? You're like a mile away from the curb.
Don't even start.
 Just fucking with you.   Now let's go out and get those burgers.   I'm fucking starving! They get in the car and slam the door. The engine starts and the car takes off, revealing that they were parked next to a
Hey, Rold-- do you think C3PO is gay?
Of course he's gay! You remember in the first Star Wars when he was like...  "Thank the maker! This oil bath is going to feel soooo good!" Kumar laughs.
Dude, give me thirty-five cents. HAROLD sorts through some change in his hand and gives Kumar the money. KUMAR tosses the change into the basket and waits for the TOLL BOOTH STOPLIGHT to turn green. It doesn't.
What's going on? It didn't register.  Dude, give me thirty-five more cents.
I don't have anymore change.
Should I just go through?
No.   I don't like breaking the law. Harold licks the joint as he puts the finishing touches on.
I can see that. A CAR HONKS BEHIND THEM. Kumar turns around and sees a number of cars lining up behind them. Right behind them, A BIG BURLY GUY leans his head out of a car...
 I'm going through.
Just hold on. I'll walk over to one of the manned booths and tell them what happened. The honking continues as HAROLD starts to open the door...
Are you crazy?
Oh shit, we're dead! Harold throws the joint out the window.
What the fuck is wrong with you?!
 You just tore out of there! The cops are gonna catch us!
No they're not!
Take this exit!
What?
That was the last of our weed.
Look, I get a little paranoid sometimes.
Now we're in Newark of all places.    You know we're gonna get shot.
Maybe it's not as bad as they say.    It's probably just a bunch of hype. They look out the window and see another ASIAN and INDIAN guy walking down the street. Suddenly, THREE HOODS jump out from an alley and start beating the living shit out of Daniel and Shankar. Kumar gives Harold a dirty look.
Let's get the hell out of here. KUMAR continues driving. He makes a turn. All of a sudden, he stops short, causing he and HAROLD to jerk forward quickly.
What the...
Dude, we are NOT driving through that basketball game!
We have to if we want to get out of here. Kumar points to a sign indicating that the HIGHWAY is ahead.
Forget about it. No way.
Come on. How do you know they're not peaceful Gregory Hines-like black guys? With that, the HUGEST ANGRIEST BLACK MAN OF ALL TIME ROARS AS HE COMPLETES A MONSTER DUNK. In celebration, he violently bumps chests with his teammates.
Turn the car around.
Why? Are cars not allowed to go through when a game's going on? When we were kids, we used to move to the side when we were playing in the street. The HUGEST ANGRIEST BLACK MAN stares HAROLD and KUMAR down.
For some reason, I don't think this is the same thing.
I'm going through. KUMAR begins inching forward.
Don't! The BASKETBALL PLAYERS slowly begin moving aside.
Look.    They're moving.   I told you. Even though the Players are making way for Harold and Kumar, they're still no more than a foot or two from the car at all times. Harold is scared shitless. He then notices the HUGEST ANGRIEST BLACK MAN holding the basketball.
Shit, he's gonna throw the ball at us.
How do you know?
Look at him! The HUGEST ANGRIEST BLACK MAN has an ESPECIALLY ANGRY FACE.
Oh fuck. KUMAR puts the pedal to the metal and ZOOMS AWAY FROM THEM.
That was close, dude.
Rold, check it out!      We're almost there!
Yes!    Thank God! I'm starving!
Well, prepare to gorge yourself.
Oh man, I'm so hungry. I'm gonna eat like twenty of those burgers.
I'll see your twenty and raise you five orders of fries.
God, where the hell is this place?
Don't worry, we'll find it. HAROLD sees a HIGH SCHOOL up ahead...
There's the multiplex!
That means the White Castle should be just around the corner...
What the hell's going on, Kumar?! That doesn't look like a White Castle to me!
We gotta get to the bottom of this!
What happened to the White Castle?
There used to be a White Castle right in this spot. Where is it?
Please tell me there's another White Castle in town.
Are you sure?
Shit.   What are we gonna do?
I don't know. Should we just eat here?
Do you really think that'll satisfy us? The BURGER SHACK EMPLOYEE senses their desperation.
 I can make the trip if you're willing to.
Kumar, I have a shitload of work to finish. And you have that med school interview in the morning.
Forget about the med school interview. It's a non-issue.
 You can always do your work in the car. HAROLD thinks for a moment, then licks his lips.
Let's do it.
Then it's settled. No matter what, we're not ending this night without White Castle in our stomachs. Agreed? KUMAR puts his hand out.   HAROLD shakes it.
Agreed.
White Castle, here we come. I just wish we had some more pot. I'm almost completely sober right now. HAROLD ignores this. He's TYPING FEVERISHLY ON HIS LAPTOP-- trying to get his work done. Meanwhile, Kumar notices a sign on for the PRINCETON EXIT.
Nice. Princeton. We're getting off here. Kumar takes the exit.
Why?
We're gonna sweet talk Cindy Kim into finding us some weed.
Oh no.    I'm not seeing Cindy.
Why the fuck not? You talk to her on the phone all the time.
She calls me. Then she rambles on about her East Asian Students club or whatever.
And I have to pretend like I actually give a shit, or she'll call me a twinkie.
A twinkie?
You know, yellow on the outside, white on the inside.
Look you twinkie bitch, you threw our weed out the window, so now it's your duty to make sure we're high as shit by the time we're eating those burgers.
Well, I can't help you out there. Cindy doesn't smoke. She's not gonna help us.
As long as she buzzes us into a dorm, we're set. Give me ten minutes in there and I guarantee I'll find some hizzy.
No, forget it. I'm not seeing Cindy Kim.
I'm so glad you showed up, Harold!
 Yeah. Me too.
Did you like the Hibiscus petals I glued to the envelope I sent you?
Uh, yeah.    They were...nice. Suddenly, one of the nerdy Asian students  raises his hand. HAROLD looks at him strangely, and then over to Cindy. "Does this guy think I'm a teacher or something?" Harold sits there and stares at Kenneth for a while...
 Uh, yes?
Kenneth Park. Class of 2004. Is it true you're an analyst at Brewster Keegan?
Yeah, I'm a junior analyst.
Awesome! KENNETH high-fives with the nerdy Asian student next to him. He then raises his hand again. HAROLD rolls his eyes...
Yes?
Uh, this is actually a two-part question. I'm applying for a summer internship at Brewster Keegan, and I was wondering a) what it's like being an investment banker and b) if you would write me a recommendation.
What it's like being an investment banker? Well Kenneth, to be honest, it's pretty... HAROLD looks into the eyes of the young, eager, Asian students. He can't bear to tell them the truth...
...awesome? All the Asian students start high-fiving with each other.
As for the recommendation, I may be able to make a call or two... CINDY looks at her watch...
Actually Harold, we should be getting to the party. We can discuss all this stuff there. It's just down the hall. All the Asian students get up...
Sorry, Cindy. I can't go. I have to wait for Kumar...
You'll see him when we're done. Trust me, you're gonna love this. Kenny's mom dropped off a big jar of kimchi jigae. Kenneth looks proud of himself.
Nice. CINDY grabs HAROLD's hand and drags him away.
Hey! You know where I can get some chronic? The RANDOM STUDENT doesn't respond. Kumar is frustrated...
What kind of Ivy League school is this?
Heeey, Man. Lookin' to toke up? KUMAR breathes a sigh of relief...
Thank Christ! Look, just give me a dime of your finest herb. The Hippie Asshole opens his backpack. Inside, Kumar sees A GIANT PLASTIC BAG FILLED WITH WEED. He's awestruck...
Oh my dear sweet lord... Kumar reaches for the weed, but the Hippie Asshole knocks his hand away...
Yo, man!   Not cool! This is my baby, man!
That'll be eighty bucks.
Eighty bucks?! It's worth forty tops, bro! The Hippie Asshole grabs the baggy back from Kumar.
I'm not your bro...bro. And if you feel like staying sober, go ahead, don't buy it. That's cool with me. I can find lots of people who want to get high. I can smoke it myself, man.
Jesus, what the hell kind of hippie are you?
One who understands the concept of supply and demand, dude. Kumar and the Hippie Asshole stare each other down. After a couple seconds, Kumar shakes his head, pissed off. He takes out his wallet and hands all his cash to the Hippie Asshole.
 Dumbass. Suddenly, CHRISTY and CLARISSA (TWO GORGEOUS TWINS, BLONDE, BLUE EYES, BIG BREASTS, BRITISH ACCENTS) approach carrying take-out bags. They see KUMAR and the Hippie Asshole making their deal.
Hey, you guys about to smoke? KUMAR and HIPPIE ASSHOLE turn and see THE TWINS.   They're both floored by their hotness.
 Yeah. Wanna come back to my place?
Please. Like they want to go listen to a bunch of Phish records while you read your lame ass poetry.
 Ladies? Wanna get high and have some fun? CHRISTY and CLARISSA look at each other. They like this dude.
Sure!                           Sure!
 Hey, my poetry isn't lame! It's actually quite good. The girls clearly aren't convinced. The ignore him and turn to Kumar. Hippie Asshole is oblivious to the fact he's not part of the crowd.
 We're just gonna eat before this gets cold. What do you say we meet you back in our room in twenty minutes?
We're in room 109.
109.   Got it. I'll see you later.
Yeah, see you there. THE TWINS walk away. Kumar's excited. Hippie Asshole tries to pound fists with Kumar like they're all of a sudden friends. Kumar snubs him and runs off.
Not cool, man.
Rold! Rold! You gotta come quick! There are these two filthy pussies who are just aching to get boned by us. KUMAR notices that CINDY is appalled by his choice of words.
Uh...I mean...there are two very lovely, young pussies who would like to have a chat with you and I.
Sorry.    Harold's coming with us.
That's bullshit. He's coming with me. Isn't that right, Rold? CINDY gives HAROLD an evil eye-- he's intimidated by her.
 Let's go to the party for a little while.
Fuck that! KUMAR notices an open dorm room nearby. He enters the room, and returns a few moments later dragging an ASIAN FRESHMAN in his pajamas. He pushes the Asian Freshman over to Cindy...
Here-- this is Harold's understudy.     You can do whatever you want with him.  Let's go. KUMAR grabs HAROLD by the arm and drags him away. CINDY looks pissed as she watches HAROLD being taken away from her.
I can't believe you were gonna ditch me for the Joy Luck Club. You know what their parties are like.
Look, what do you want me to say?     I was under pressure.
Just say "no"! That's all it takes.      Now take a hit of this. Kumar hands Harold the joint...suddenly, a nearby door opens and a SECURITY GUARD enters the hall. He sees HAROLD and KUMAR with drugs.
Hey, what are you two doing?! HAROLD and KUMAR start running down the hallway.
Hey, get back here! HAROLD and KUMAR duck around the corner.     They see a door to the WOMEN'S BATHROOM.
Quick.    In here. The guys rush into the WOMEN'S BATHROOM.
Shit!    What if he finds us?
Dude, chill out. He's not gonna look for us in the women's bathroom. Harold and Kumar hear TWO FEMALE VOICES outside the bathroom.
Shit!    Get in that stall! There's a line of THREE BATHROOM STALLS on one wall. HAROLD RUNS INTO STALL NUMBER TWO . KUMAR sees the BATHROOM DOOR START TO OPEN. He also runs into STALL NUMBER TWO and shuts the door behind him. The guys struggle to STAND ON THE TOILET BOWL.    Harold's laptop bag keeps smacking Kumar. CHRISTY and CLARISSA  enter the bathroom.       They're in mid-conversation.
Hurry up, I want to go smoke pot with that cute Indian bloke.
IN STALL NUMBER TWO, KUMAR'S ears perk up, as we see HAROLD and KUMAR both standing on the toilet bowl. From Kumar's POV, he sees CHRISTY and CLARISSA through the crack of the door.
It'll be a few minutes, I'm about to have the worst case of the taco shits. KUMAR is clearly upset to hear this.
 Ew...gross. CLARISSA runs into STALL NUMBER ONE and shuts the door. The sound of the door shutting causes HAROLD and KUMAR to look over at that stall.
Oh great.   Now I think I have to go. CHRISTY enters STALL NUMBER THREE and shuts the door. The sound of the door shutting causes HAROLD and KUMAR to turn their attention to the other stall. They then look at each other grossed out. From above, we see HAROLD and KUMAR struggling, while the girls have taken their places in the surrounding stalls.
Ahhhhh! HAROLD and KUMAR look horrified.      There is silence for a few seconds until....
Hey Clarissa. Do you wanna play battle shits? We see HAROLD quizzically mouth "battle shits?"
Oh my God. We haven't played that since back in camp! HAROLD and KUMAR look confused.
Wait for it.    Wait for it.    Ahhhhh!
Hit! HAROLD and Kumar look terrified.
Have you seen a Korean guy around here?
Uh, yeah. There's like, two hundred of them in this dorm.  `Tard. Cindy can't help but feel a little stupid.
Hit! We see HAROLD dry heave. We hear the sound of diarrhea hitting the bowl again. CLARISSA smiles.
You sank my destroyer! Scag! KUMAR almost pukes as HE DROPS THE POT INTO THE TOILET BOWL.
 Shit!
Who was that? KUMAR looks nervous. He quickly bolts from the bathroom.
Christy, are you still here?
Damn!   You sank my battle shit!
Pot brownies for everyone! Kenneth throws some pot brownies in the air. People grab at them. Harold and Kumar can't believe it. Two Cute Asian Chicks approach Kenneth...
To tell you the truth, I'm running low. But a quick titty flash may persuade me. The Korean chicks look at each other. "Should we?" "Okay!" They lift up their shirts and bras, revealing their boobs.
Dude, I'm starting to think you made a mistake by not going to this party... Harold gives him a dirty look. Then, suddenly, the SECURITY GUARD from before appears in the hallway with ANOTHER
Hey, you! The guys turn and see the guards running at them. HAROLD AND
Harold! They keep running, past the bathrooms, where Christy and Clarissa exit...
 Where the hell is 109, man? Harold is about to avoid him, but Kumar grabs Harold close and the two of them BASH INTO THE Hippie Asshole-- KNOCKING
Well, well, well. What have we here?
 Aw, dude! Don't take it! It's mine! He continues to protest as SECURITY GUARD #2 holds him down.
 I can't believe it. We were this close to getting high and getting laid.
Oh, come on, you always exaggerate.    We weren't gonna get laid.
Hey, the diarrhea twins would've had sex with us! And what about Cindy?! She was looking hot tonight! The fact that you're not into her just might make you gay!
I know Cindy's cute, it's just...
What?   You'd rather have Maria? From Harold's reaction, it's clear he hit it on the head.
Look, it doesn't matter. I'm gonna end up with Cindy anyway. It's just more practical. Now can we drop this and get our asses to White Castle?
Fine. Suddenly, KUMAR pulls the car over to the side of the road...
Now what are you doing?
Daddy needs to urinate. Harold rolls his eyes.
Oh yes!   Yes, that's nice.
Excuse me...I'm sorry, I just have to ask you...why are you peeing here?
What do you mean?
Why did you decide to piss here right next to me? Why not that bush over there?
Well, this looked like a good bush to pee on. Why'd you choose this bush?
Nobody was here when I chose this bush.
 So you can pee here and nobody else can, is that it?
I was just saying....
Is this like your special bush or something?
No, I just...  You know what? Forget about it. I'm not in the mood to get stabbed right now. The CREEPY GUY calms down. He and KUMAR silently urinate next to each other for about TEN SECONDS, until the Creepy Guy subtly looks at Kumar's package.
Nice pubes.
Thanks.
Do you even know where you're going?
I'll be honest, I'm a little lost. But don't worry. Once we get on the highway, we'll be there soon.
We better. It starts to rain...
Shit, now it's raining.
What's the big deal?
Look, I'm completely on edge right now, okay? After all the shit we've been through tonight, I don't know how much more of this I can take.
KUMAR turns and sees the raccoon on Harold.
Holy shit! HAROLD tries to pry the raccoon away from his neck.     KUMAR tries to help him.
How the hell did that get in here?
Shit! It bit my neck! I probably have rabies now or something!
 Don't worry. He didn't even break your skin. You'll be fine.
Oh, that's not good!
Ahh! Dude, get that fucking cancer raccoon away from me!!!
Thank Christ! Kumar looks back onto the road, where HE SEES A PAIR OF
Shit!!!                                Shit!!! KUMAR quickly hits the brakes, as does the other car. HAROLD and KUMAR look at each other, breathing heavily. They watch nervously as the other DRIVER exits his car and begins walking over to them.
Uh-oh. KUMAR rolls down his window.         The DRIVER peers inside...
What the hell do you think you were doing? You almost killed us! GOLDSTEIN sees that it's HAROLD and KUMAR.
Holy Shit!
Goldstein? HAROLD breathes a sigh of relief.
 Dude, it's Rold and Kumar!
What the hell are you guys doing here?
We got the munchies, so we're out trying to find a Hot Dog Heaven.
What about you guys? How was White Castle?
 We haven't gotten there yet.   I think I got rabies, though.
 Dude-- how were Katie Holmes' tits?
You know the holocaust?
Yeah.
Picture the exact opposite of that.
Nice.
Apologize to Hashem.
Who the hell is...
Just apologize!
Okay, I'm sorry.
 You really need to meet a girl.
 Well, if you have the yellow fever tonight, there's a rocking Asian party over at Princeton tonight.
Man, I have the yellow plague. There's nothing sexier than a hot Asian chick...or dude for that matter...
 Come on, let me suck it...let me see it and suck on it...come on, Rold, let's rub our dicks together...Jewish swordfight... Harold backs away as the other three laugh...
Will you stop it? I'm feeling very woozy. I may have to go to the hospital.
Dude, you don't have rabies! We're not going to the hospital.
 Yo, we gotta hit this Asian party.
Oh no! No more detours! Let's just stick with the plan and get to Krispee Kreme.  You guys wouldn't believe some of the weird shit we've been through the last couple hours. Harold and Kumar look at each other-- "if they only knew..."
I don't have rabies. Kumar stands up quickly.
Great, let's get out of here. Just as Harold and Kumar walk down the hallway to the EXIT...
Kumar know that voice all too well...
Shit.
Oh, now I see why you didn't want to come to the hospital. Kumar gives Harold an annoyed look as his dad approaches.
 I hope you are here to apologize for what you did in your interview today. Dr. Woodruff is a very good friend of mine, and let's just say he was not at all amused by your antics...and neither am I.
 What the hell's wrong with you, Kumar? Look at me. I own my own house. I drive a beamer. And I get laid whenever I want. You can have all that too, if you'd just get off your ass and go to med school.
Eat my balls, Saikat.
God, you're 22 years old already! When are you gonna grow up and stop with this post-college rebel bullshit? Like your life is so tough. Kumar doesn't have a response.   Saikat's right.
I will not tolerate this business from you any longer. You have one more interview tomorrow and it is the last one I'm setting up for you.
If I hear from Dr. Wein that you were anything short of spectacular, I'll completely cut you off!
Oh, come on, dad!
"Daddy will not be coming on anything!" You will be there and you will behave! I've put too much time and effort into you to let you go and fuck it all up. KUMAR lowers his head.   He's been put in his place.
You're right. I'm sorry. KUMAR gives HIS FATHER a hug.   He even gives SAIKAT a hug.
It won't happen again.
Good.   I'll speak with you tomorrow. KUMAR'S FATHER gives KUMAR a quick kiss on the head, then he and SAIKAT walk away. HAROLD is stunned...
Wow. So I guess you're going to med school after all, huh?
Fuck that! Like I care what my dad thinks. I can't wait to see the look on his face when he finds out I skipped the interview tomorrow. He wants to cut me off? Fine! I don't need his money!
 But...you just hugged him...
I just needed to get my hands on these... KUMAR holds up SAIKAT and HIS FATHER'S SCAN CARDS.
Two words-- medical marijuana. HAROLD shakes his head in disgust.
Look, I'm telling you, they see   an Indian and Asian guy wearing these and   they'll just assume we're doctors. Then   we walk right into the pharmacy and get   the weed. Harold does not appear happy he's doing this.
If we get caught, you're taking the blame. This wasn't my idea.
We're not gonna get caught. We're gonna get toasted and then we're gonna eat delicious White Castle-- just like we planned. All of a sudden, a hand grabs Kumar from behind. Freaked out, they turn around and see a MALE NURSE (frazzled, touchy feely).
Dr. Patel, thank God I found you!    I need your help immediately! The NURSE drags them to a nearby emergency room...
 What the hell's going on here?
He must think I'm Saikat. Don't worry. Leave the talking up to me. On the operating table is a PATIENT BLEEDING FROM HIS CHEST. He is conscious and appears to be in a lot of pain.
The patient was brought in by EMS five minutes ago. He has three gunshot wounds with entry in the anterior abdomen. No exit wounds. HAROLD sees blood squirt out of the PATIENT'S chest.
Oh shit!   This guy's gonna die!!!
It's a good thing I found you two. All the other surgeons are working on other patients... The NURSE hands HAROLD a surgical instrument.
Wait. Hold on. You see you got this all wrong. We're not doc... KUMAR interrupts before HAROLD can tell her the truth.
What Dr. Lee is trying to say is that we need to sedate the patient first or else he could go into cardiac arrest. HAROLD looks at KUMAR confused and nervous.
Alright. I'll get the anesthesiologist. The NURSE is about to rush away, but Kumar stops him.
Hold on. What we should probably use is marijuana. That'll sufficiently sedate the patient for surgery.
 Marijuana? But why...
We don't have time for questions! We need marijuana now! Get as much of it as possible! Like a big bag of it! KUMAR shows the amount he wants with his hands.
But doctor, we don't have marijuana in this hospital. HAROLD gives KUMAR a dirty look.
 Shit. Suddenly, more blood squirts from the Patient's chest. Harold shouts in disgust, making the Patient more nervous...
We're losing him! You gotta do something!
 Very well. I guess we'll have to do this the old fashioned way. KUMAR puts a nitrous oxide mask over the Patient's face. Harold gives Kumar a look-- "What the fuck are you doing?"
First, we need to clear his C-spine. I want stat x-rays of the chest and abdomen. Give me two large bore IVs and start a ringers lactate push. Nurse, we need 2 units of O neg on board. Using the surgical equipment, Kumar actually begins removing bullets from the bleeding patient!!! Harold can't believe what's going on. Suddenly, the Patient begins having trouble breathing! He's gasping for air! The BEEPING SOUND monitoring his heart rate begins speeding up to an insane pace.
Doctor! The patient is desatting! Kumar quickly examines the patient's chest...
Ah, I see. The Patient's got a collapsed lung. Get me a 14-gage Angiocath, stat! After a couple seconds go by...
What's taking so long?
Great catch doctor! His sat is up to 94! Kumar is cool and collected. He turns to the YOUNG MEDICAL TECHNICIANS who have been aiding the surgery.
 Will one of you guys put the chest tube in and wrap this up? A chorus of "yes, doctors."
 Well, it looks like my work here is done. Kumar pulls the gas mask from the patient's face up to his face and takes a deep breath, getting a big hit of nitrous. He then leans down to the BLEEDING PATIENT, who is just barely conscious -- but seems in good spirits...
Say, you wouldn't happen to know the quickest way to get to the White Castle in Cherry Hill from here, do you?
I'm telling you. That was amazing!    Even your dad would've been impressed!
 Yeah. It wasn't bad.
This is perfect! We're back on the road. We have directions now. The rain let up. And guess what...
I'm officially done with my work.  I'm telling you, things are finally starting to go our way. While they're stopped at a red light, Kumar takes in his surroundings and notices something...
Hey, check it out!     Your movie's playing. Outside, to Kumar's left, on the marquee of a movie theater we see: "JOHN HUGHES RETROSPECTIVE. CURLY SUE - 9:00.
And look who went to see it... Harold looks at the crowd leaving the theater and sees MARIA standing outside, all by herself. He can't believe it.
Holy shit.
You see? You thought you two had nothing in common. But it turns out you both have the same lame taste in movies. Hey, you wanna see if she wants to come with us to White Castle?
No way.    Forget about it.   Just drive. Kumar puts his hands on Harold's shoulders to get his undivided attention.
Harold. It's one in the morning. We're an hour from home. And who do we see, but your dream girl standing outside a theater playing your favorite movie. I mean, if we were in a cheesy romantic comedy, and I was your annoying gay friend, this would be the moment I'd tell you "this is a sign."
Stop it.
Come on. Just pretend you're a nerdy Asian Tom Hanks and she's a hot Latina Meg Ryan...with bigger tits. Besides, you yourself said things are starting to go our way...
Let's just go! KUMAR presses a button CAUSING HAROLD'S WINDOW TO GO DOWN.
What are you doing?!
 Hey Maria! MARIA looks up. HAROLD QUICKLY DUCKS IN HIS SEAT. HE THEN
Hey, get your hand off the gas! Kumar tries kicking Harold's hand off the gas.   Just then,
 Oh shit! Harold's Infiniti HAS DRIVEN OFF THE ROAD AND IS SPEEDING
You asshole! My car's probably all scratched up now!
Don't blame me. You're the one who ran us off the road!
I told you I didn't want to speak to her!  Whatever. Let's jut get back on the highway.
Fine. KUMAR presses the gas. Suddenly, we hear a "POP!"   Harold and Kumar look at each other-- angry and frustrated.
Godammit. You know how to change a flat?
Please. Only hicks and Italian guys know how to change a tire. Harold looks in his trunk for the spare.    It's missing.
Where's my spare tire?
I don't know.
Shit, where the hell is it? Kumar suddenly remembers...
Oh yeah! Don't you remember that time we got baked and started throwing shit off that bridge to see if it would float?
What bridge? What the hell are you talking about?
 Oh shit. That's right. I was with Goldstein. We borrowed your car that day. My bad.
Your bad?   What are the hell are we gonna do now?! Suddenly, they see AN OLD PICK-UP TRUCK driving in their direction. HAROLD and KUMAR wave it down. The truck stops in front of them. The door opens and a SHADOWY FIGURE begins walking towards them. Harold and Kumar are nervous. As soon as the FIGURE reaches them, LIGHTENING STRIKES.
You boys need some help? The UGLY MAN takes off his mesh cap. Even his haircut is freaky. He has a SKULLET . HAROLD and KUMAR look at each other, freaked out.
Thanks for helping us out.
No problem at all. Saw you boys stranded there and thought to myself, "what would Jesus do?" Harold and Kumar look at each other. They then notice a JESUS CHRIST bobble-head doll on the dashboard...
So, you boys worship Christ? The guys look at each other again, not sure how to respond.
Uh...Yeah.                        Sure, he's great.
Great. Good to hear it. The name's Randy...but everyone calls me Freak Show.
I'm Kumar. This is Harold.     Good to meet you, Mr...Freak Show.
Pleasure's all mine. After a while, HAROLD starts to notice that they're driving in the middle of a dark woods. It looks very sketchy.
So where exactly are we going?
Don't worry. My place isn't too far from here. Once we get there, I'll have your ride fixed up in a jiffy. The guys silently continue driving, until KUMAR notices a
 Eww-- check out those boils on his neck! HAROLD nudges him to be quiet. KUMAR looks back over at FREAK SHOW and sees that ONE OF THE BOILS IS PULSATING.
 Oh my God! You gotta look!     One of them's actually pulsating!
 Will you shut up? He's right next to me! He can hear you! KUMAR sees that A WHITE PUSS IS NOW OOZING FROM THE BOIL.
 Now there's some sort of puss! It's the most disgusting thing I've ever seen!
 What's the matter with you? You think that just because you're whispering, he can't hear what you're saying? He's two feet away from us. He can hear this entire conversation. He can hear me talking right now.
 Don't worry, he can't hear anything.    Not with all that crust in his ear. HAROLD gives KUMAR a hard elbow to the stomach. He then looks nervously at FREAK SHOW, who doesn't seem to have heard a thing. Harold seems relieved.
I heard every word you said. FREAK SHOW doesn't say anything else. HAROLD and KUMAR don't know how to react. They feel really uncomfortable. The fact that nothing happens makes it all the more awkward for them.
Now it's gonna take me a little while here, so if you boys like you can go inside, wash up, fuck my wife, have something to drink, watch tv-- anything you want. Mi casa es su casa. Just don't do anything Jesus wouldn't do. FREAK SHOW gives HAROLD a pat on the back and starts changing the tire. KUMAR and HAROLD look at each other. Slowly, they walk towards FREAK SHOW's house...
Am I deaf or did he just say we can fuck his wife?
He couldn't have said that.
But he did! It may have been in mid- sentence, but it was still clear as day. They reach the front door and are about to enter...
Who cares? You've seen Freak Show. What do you think his wife is gonna look like?
Hi. I'm Freak Show's wife, Liane.    Would you boys like some pink lemonade? HAROLD and KUMAR can't move.   They're awestruck.
Let me go bring in a pitcher. LIANE   leaves to go into the kitchen. Along the way, she turns   on a record player, which starts playing a CREEPY SONG ABOUT   JESUS CHRIST. HAROLD and KUMAR look around the house. There   are crosses and Bible Verses on the walls, along with Freak   Show and Liane's wedding picture...
Okay. It's official.     We've entered the Twilight Zone.
Dude, Liane is fucking hot!
She's not ugly. LIANE comes in with the pitcher of lemonade.    She pours them drinks and hands them the glasses...
Thanks.  So, tell me Liane-- how are things between you and Freak Show presently?
Oh, never been better.    We love each other very much. KUMAR looks disappointed.    HAROLD, however, is intrigued...
Can I ask-- how does a guy...like Freak Show...end up with a woman like yourself?
Well, I met him at choir practice `bout four years ago. Freak Show was very shy back then-- you know, because of all the hideous boils on his face and neck. But he had the most amazing voice -- like a baby canary. Harold and Kumar look at each other in disbelief -- "are we talking about the same Freakshow?"
Well, one day after Easter service, I told him how much I enjoyed his solo, and he just mustered up some courage and asked me out. The rest is history. And we've been in love ever since. HAROLD ponders this for a moment.    He and KUMAR begin drinking their lemonade.
So you boys gonna fuck me or what? HAROLD and KUMAR spit the lemonade out simultaneously. They look at each other in complete shock. Kumar turns to Harold.
Rock, paper, scissors to see who goes first?
Wait a second-- what about Freak Show...and this whole Christian thing you guys have going on?
 Oh, so just because we're passionate about our Lord, you assume we don't know how to have a good time?
No, I just... Liane starts playing with the knot in her shirt. Harold and Kumar stare unabashedly. Harold looks outside the window, where he sees Freak Show changing the tire, apparently busy.
Nevermind. (to Kumar, swinging his hand) Okay, rock, paper, scissors...
Sorry-- if you boys want me, you gotta do me at the same time.
Huh?
Come on.   Give me the double stuff. HAROLD and KUMAR look at each other confused.
I'm not sure we quite understand...
I want you both inside me simultaneously. HAROLD and KUMAR look at each other again, more confused and kind of disturbed. Kumar turns to LIANE...
Um, are we talking about one hole or two?
However you want to do it.
Sorry, no thank you.
 Shh! Two holes it might not be that bad.  Shotgun anus!
Forget it! I don't want our balls rubbing against each other. No way! KUMAR turns to LIANE in desperation...
What about blow jobs?! Can we get blow jobs!?
Well...okay.  Can you help me with this...? Liane walks over to Harold, seductively. Harold is nervous and doesn't know what he should do. She takes his hand and puts it on the knot in her shirt. Harold looks over to Kumar, who gives him a reassuring nod. Harold then pulls on the cloth, causing the knot to come loose, thereby releasing her shirt. The shirt is now hanging and just barely covering her breasts.
 Do you want to play with them? Harold looks over to Kumar, then back at Liane...
Okay, let's do that. Liane takes Harold's hands and places them on her breasts. Kumar looks on enviously. Liane moans in pleasure as Harold starts to massage her chest. AT THAT MOMENT, FREAK SHOW ENTERS THE ROOM, holding a particularly threatening TIRE-IRON...
Hey boys-- I changed your tire... FREAK SHOW sees HAROLD with LIANE...
What the hell are you doing with my wife!
 Uhh...you said outside that we can have sex with her! FREAK SHOW runs over to HAROLD and grabs him by the collar!
I most certainly did not say that!
No.   You did. We both heard you.
 Are you sure?
Positive. FREAK SHOW ponders this.
Oh...my mistake then.
No problem.
Well, since we're all here, why not make it a foursome?
Who wants the first reach-around?
Okay, let's agree never to talk about what just happened.
Agreed.
Dude, I have no idea where we are. All of a sudden, A HITCHHIKER waves them down up ahead.
Hey, a hitchhiker. Should we pick him up?
And get chopped to bits?     Are you crazy? Kumar pulls over to the side of the road...
Oh, calm down. We're lost. He may know how to get us back on the highway.
Fuck that! It's my car! We're not picking up a hitchhiker! The back door opens and Neil , gets into the car.
Yo, man, thanks for picking me up. HAROLD and KUMAR look at NEIL and then look at each other. THEY ARE IN COMPLETE SHOCK. Harold is no longer angry.
 Uh...excuse me, but...are you Neil Patrick Harris?
Yep.
Holy shit, dude! Doogie Howser, M.D. was my favorite TV show growing up! You were my idol!
 Hey, that's great. Do you think we could get going? I'm bored as shit back here.
So, Neil, I have to ask you-- did you ever get it on with Wanda off the set?
Dude, I humped every piece of ass ever on that show.
Even the chick who played the hot nurse?
No, I didn't go all the way with her.
Hey, you don't know how to get back on the highway, do you?
I don't even know where the fuck I am right now. I was at this party earlier tonight, and this dude hooked me up with some killer X. Somehow I ended up getting thrown out of a moving car, and I've been tripping balls ever since. HAROLD and KUMAR both find this to be quite strange.
Well, our night's been pretty crazy too. We've been driving around for hours, trying to get to White Castle, but we keep getting sidetracked.
Dude, forget White Castle.   What we need is some pussy.
Huh?
It's a fucking sausage fest in here. Let's get us some poon-tang. Then we'll go to White Castle.
You don't understand, Neil. We've been craving these burgers all night.
I've been craving burgers too.   Fur burgers, that is.
Let's pick up some trim at a strip club. The Doogie line always works on strippers. HAROLD and KUMAR look at each other-- weirded out.
Hey, there's a gas station! Let's stop and get directions. KUMAR quickly makes a turn onto a NORMAL-LOOKING STREET leading up to a gas station in the distance...
We'll be right back, Neil. NEIL shakes his head, disappointed. Harold and Kumar start walking over to the CONVENIENCE STORE.
What's the deal with Neil Patrick Harris? Why's he so horny?
I don't know. But we can't let him interfere with our quest. Suddenly, Cole's Yellow Jeep drives right by them. They have to jump out of the way. Cole parks the jeep and exits with
Late night math league meeting, homos?
 Oh shit. These idiots. Cole and the Two Punks push past Harold and Kumar and walk into the store. Harold and Kumar enter after them...
 Please...the pies...do not... Cole and the Punks ignore him.    Harold and Kumar then approach the Indian Cashier...
Excuse me-- can you tell us how to get onto the highway from here? The INDIAN CASHIER shrugs his shoulders.
 He probably can't speak English...
Who knew that learning Hindi would actually pay off? The guy says the highway's just down the road. We should be in Cherry Hill in ten minutes. HAROLD is still focused on COLE and the EXTREME PUNKS...
 Huh?   Oh, good.
HAROLD, KUMAR, and the INDIAN CASHIER immediately turn and look at COLE, WHO IS IN THE KAYAK-- WHICH IS BEING HELD UP BY
That was so fucking extreme, man!
Extreme Cashier!!! Harold and Kumar watch on as Cole spins the INDIAN CASHIER around and around.
Somebody should do something.
 Hey asshole! Why don't you leave the guy alone and go jerk off to some snowboarding videos or something.
 I didn't mean you should do something. Cole slowly walks over to Kumar. The two stand face to face. Cole looks pissed, but Kumar keeps his confident exterior. It's a tense moment. Suddenly, Cole makes a quick motion as if he was going to hit Kumar, trying to get him to flinch. Kumar stands his ground without flinching, still looking Cole in the eye. The Punks don't know what to think as their leader is shown up. Seemingly impressed by Kumar, Cole begins to turn around as if he's going to walk away, but he quickly doubles back, doing the same fake punch he did before. Caught off guard, this time Kumar flinches like a nervous weakling...
 Shit. Cole and the Punks burst out laughing.
Yeah, that's right, bitch! Try fucking with me one more time. Just try it! Cole jumps up and town gloating and pounding on his chest.
 Come on, lets get out of here. Harold and Kumar walk out of the store, deflated.   With their leader victorious, the Punks begin celebrating.
 Thank you, come again!
Kumar-- you okay?
Yeah, I just hate those dicks.  Fuck it. At least now we know where we're going. I'm so friggin' hungry...
 Did Doogie Howser just steal my fucking car?
I think he did.
 You! You had to pick up a hitchhiker!
Rold, calm down!
Why the hell did you leave the keys in the car?!
I figured that Neil Patrick Harris was a trustworthy guy. How was I supposed to know that he'd fuck us over?
This is all your fault! This whole fucking night! You know I leased that car! They're gonna make me pay for it! Harold starts to walk back to the convenience store.
Where are you going?
I'm going to call the police!   I don't want to talk to you anymore! Harold is about to walk in, when he sees Cole wind up and throw a Hostess-like snowball right in the Cashier's face. "Extremes" all around!
There's a pay phone across the street, if you don't want to deal with those assholes.
So after you talk to the cops we're still going to White Castle, right?
I'm not speaking to you. Harold waits for the "DON'T WALK" sign to change. It doesn't. HE STARTS PRESSING THE "WALK" BUTTON REPEATEDLY.
You know, pressing the button a bunch of times doesn't make the sign change any faster. The computer responds to the first press. Every press after that is extraneous.
Thank you, Mr. Wizard. HAROLD waits for a few seconds, but when the light doesn't change, he begins pressing the button again.
Jesus Christ! When are they gonna fucking develop button technology that'll understand urgency? The "DON'T WALK" sign still won't change. Kumar looks to the left and then to the right. The street is completely empty and there is no place for a police car to hide.
This is ridiculous.   Just walk across.
It'll change in a second. They stand there for another ten seconds.   It doesn't change.
Come on, there's not a car in sight!
Alright fine. You want me to cross? I'll cross. Just leave me alone! Harold starts walking angrily across the street.
Finally.
Shit! Harold walks back over to Kumar, clearly upset within him, as OFFICER PALUMBO  gets out of the car and walks over to them...
 Good evening. Is there a problem, Officer...Palumbo?
Is there a problem? Ever hear of jaywalking?
Yes. Yes I have. I'm so sorry. I promise I'll never do it again.
Yeah, like I give a fuck. I'm writing you up a ticket. OFFICER PALUMBO begins writing a ticket.    Kumar walks over, flabbergasted...
A ticket?!   Are you serious? Harold motions Kumar to "shut the fuck up!"
 Who the fuck are you, shitwad?
 Let me apologize for my friend. I promise I will pay the fine. But actually, I'm glad you're here. You know the TV show Doogie Howser, M.D? You see, Doogie Howser just stole my car and...
Pipe down and give me your ID.
 Wait. Hold on.
How can you give him a ticket for jaywalking? I mean, look at this street! He wasn't causing traffic or anything!
Kumar, shut up...
 Yeah, that's not the best tone to use on a cop who could bust your ass.
Bust my ass?!
Yeah, Koo-mar. Bust your ass.  What's with that name -- Koo-mar -- with like three o's and shit. What happened to good old fashioned American names like Dave, Jim... Harold points to his ID.
Harold. Harold is starting to pacify Palumbo.
Yes. Harold. That's a great name.    You should be proud of that name, son.
Thank you. OFFICER PALUMBO hands Harold his ticket and begins to walk away.
As you were, ladies. Kumar grabs the ticket from Harold and looks at it.
220 dollars!? Are you crazy? Palumbo quickly turns around and returns to the guys.
Kumar, I swear to God, if you don't...
 No, no, no. I understand what's going on.
Hey, hands down! No sudden moves! Harold puts his hands down and Kumar continues his rant, with Palumbo improvising little responses.
Let me guess. You were probably the big asshole in your high school, right? You'd pick on guys like us every day. But then graduation came, and we went to college and you went nowhere, so you thought, "How can I still give them shit? I know! I'll become a cop!" Well, congratulations. Your dream's come true. Both Officer Palumbo and Harold are getting really pissed. Kumar steps in front of Harold and offers his friend over to Palumbo.
 Hey, while you're at it, why don't you write him up another ticket? Or better yet, arrest him. Lock him up! With that, HAROLD TAKES A BIG SWING AT KUMAR. Kumar sees Harold's fist coming and quickly ducks. Harold's fist ends up hitting OFFICER PALUMBO in the face. SMACK!!!
Oh shit.
 Hey, are you gonna do something about my car? Hello? Palumbo is in the main office area, dealing with HIPPIE ASSHOLE and his MOM. The Mom hands Officer Palumbo a check.
Thanks, Mrs. Ogelthorpe. Your donation to our Police Charity is very appreciated.
Oh, I'm sure he won't. Not after the talk we had, right Brad? Officer Palumbo gives Hippie Asshole a threatening look.
 Mom-- please take me home... The Mom leaves, with Hippie Asshole clinging to her like a frightened child. Palumbo shakes his head and sits down at his desk, where we see HIPPIE ASSHOLE'S BIG BAG OF WEED, along with Harold's WALLET and LAPTOP. He then starts filing a report on Harold... Harold looks at Officer Palumbo through the bars...
Can I at least give you my car's licence plate number? Ignoring Harold, Palumbo turns up the volume on his radio...
The search for the   escaped cheetah continues tonight.   It was last spotted in Randolph Township,   heading South... Harold turns around and examines his cell. Inside with him is a black man  sitting down, reading a book. Harold sits down, across from Tarik. While Harold isn't looking, we see Officer Palumbo take the cash out of Harold's wallet and pocket it.
So what are you in here for?
For being black.
Come on.   Seriously. TARIK sits up. He looks at OFFICER PALUMBO who, with his Walkman on, is oblivious to their conversation.
I am serious. You wanna know what happened? Harold nods.
I was walking out of a Barnes and Noble, and a cop stops me. Evidently, a black man robbed a store in Newark. Therefore, since I'm black, it was probably me, right? Harold shrugs his shoulders.
Well that was the logic the cop used. I told him I haven't even been to Newark in months. Then he pointed a gun at me and told me to stop resisting arrest. I said, "Hey, I'm not resisting anything." So he starts beating me with his gun, screaming at me, telling me to stop resisting.
Holy shit.   What did you do?
I kept saying, "I understand that I'm under arrest. Please stop beating me." But that didn't work. Then another cop showed up. Then another. When it was all said and done, it took nine cops to bring me in here.
That fucking blows! Tarik nods and continues reading his book.    Harold sees that Tarik is remarkably relaxed.
I don't understand how you're able to be so calm about all this.
Son, I'm fat. I'm black. I can't dance. And I have two gay fathers. I've had people messing with me my whole life.  I learned a long time ago, there's no point in getting all riled up every time a bunchy of idiots gives you a hard time. Because in the end, the universe tends to unfold as it should.
So what are you in here for?
Assaulting an officer.
They tried to pin that shit on you too?
No. I actually did hit the cop. But only because I was trying to hit my friend. Well, ex-friend.
Hey, listen up guys! Multiple gun shots fired in Millbrook Park! It sounds bad!
Finally, some action! I'm going! Another cop, OFFICER MARTONE, gets up...
No-- I'm going! All six officers in the room jump out of their desks and run for the door. Harold and Tarik can't believe it.
That was strange. Suddenly, a loud banging sound is made from a VENTILATION SHAFT on the ceiling, above one of the officer's desks.
What the hell was that?
 Rold? Is that you?
 Kumar?! What the fuck are you doing?!
Are the cops still there?
No, they...   Wait a second, did you...
I called and made up some story about a shooting in Millbrook park...
Jesus Christ! What did you do that for?!
I'm fucking starving! I figured I'd bust you out, and we'd get over to White Castle.
Forget it! I don't want to get in any more trouble! I'm already in here because of you!
Hey, fuck you! What did you want me to do? Stand there and take the hit? You know, I've never taken a swing at you before. Never.
Well, I never got your car stolen!
Hey, I'm trying to read here.
Look, Rold, I'm sorry. But you're not the only one dealing with shit. My dad's cutting me off, remember?
Hey asshole, I'm in jail! Don't bitch to me about your problems! Just leave me alone. I don't want your help.
You don't want my help? Fine!    I'm outta here!
Uh...Rold?    How do I get out of here? Tarik rolls his eyes in disbelief.
How the hell should I know?
This isn't good. We hear the banging noise again. And again. Suddenly, THE
Jesus Christ. Tarik shakes his head.
Ow...my ass. Kumar gets up and walks over to the cell.
You sure you don't want to get out?
And become a fugitive? Are you nuts? The guy has all my information. Harold points to Palumbo's desk, which has the police report, Harold's I.D., and his laptop.
So what? We'll take everything he wrote down about you and leave.  Unless you want to stay here all night and not be able to hand your work in tomorrow. Harold thinks about this for a second.
Fine.    Hurry up. Kumar smiles.   He begins searching for a key.
Yes! I was hoping it would be one of these big ring of keys. Now I get to try all of them to see which one will...
Kumar, hurry the fuck up! Kumar runs over to the cell door. He tries out a couple keys, when he suddenly smells something...
What's that smell? Kumar turns his head and sees the ENORMOUS BAG OF WEED on Officer Reilly's desk.
Kumar?...Kumar! Kumar can't hear Harold. He's in a trance. We begin to hear a romantic song as Kumar stares lovingly at the BAG OF WEED...
frustrated as he looks at his BILLS. THE BAG OF WEED (wearing a pink bathrobe) comes out of the kitchen holding a MUG OF
What the hell are you... Suddenly, all six police officer come back into the room, pushing a black man wearing pajamas . Nathaniel seems very gentle. He's even wearing a turtleneck sweater.
 You thought you could get away with this, huh?
Where am I? I was in bed.         I didn't fire any gun, I swear... Suddenly, Officer Reilly looks over to the jail cell...
 Look! All the cops turn to the cell. Kumar is still holding the weed. He doesn't know what to do. Harold is scared shitless.
 Shit! Jackson's trying to escape! Tarik looks up from his book...
What?     Oh, not again! The cops handcuff Nathaniel to the leg of a desk, and run over to the jail cell, ignoring Kumar and the weed.
Stop trying to escape!
I'm not trying to escape!        Look at me, I'm sitting down! They turn the key that is already in the keyhole and storm into the room. Harold stands back, confused. Tarik leans against the wall, ready to be handcuffed. The cops grab him and throw him down against the bed.
He's trying to break free! Hold him tight! In the midst of all the action, Kumar grabs Harold and pulls him out of the cell. HAROLD GOES OVER TO PALUMBO'S DESK AND PICKS UP HIS WALLET AND LAPTOP, along with the police report. They start running out of the room. Kumar's still clinging to the weed.
 Wait-- shouldn't we do something about this?
 If I were you, I'd get out of here as soon as possible. With that, Harold and Kumar run out...
Hurry up!
Jesus Christ! That place was a fucking mad house! Thanks for getting me out of there, dude.
Hey, man, the burgers wouldn't taste as good if you weren't there.  Dude, look at this. It's like we went from being broke to being millionaires. Suddenly, they hear what sounds like A COYOTE'S HOWL.
What was that?
Just a coyote. Don't worry.
Aren't people supposed to be scared of coyotes?
That's only because they sound scary. In one on one combat, either one of us can take a coyote down.
Now cheetahs, they're another story. The CHEETAH stares HAROLD and KUMAR down.
We're gonna die.
Just calm down. Cheetahs are used to eating zebras and shit. They're not known for eating humans.
We're gonna die.
Okay, I'll admit, that's not a good sign. But I'm sure if we just stay calm he'll probably leave us alone. HAROLD and KUMAR stand silently. SLOWLY, the CHEETAH begins walking directly over to HAROLD...
 This isn't working.
Shhh. Suddenly, the CHEETAH OPENS HIS MOUTH WIDE AND CHOMPS DOWN ON
EMPTY_LINE
 I thought I told you not to take that jerky! HAROLD simply falls to the ground relieved that he hasn't been eaten. The Cheetah walks over to Harold and begins licking Harold's face in friendship.
He likes me. Suddenly, Kumar's eyes light up...
Dude, I think I have an idea.
What is it?
I'll tell you, but first we have to get really high. Kumar opens the bag of weed. Pan up to the night sky for a time lapse.   We see smoke coming up from below. Pan back down...
Has it come to this?    Are we really gonna ride this cheetah?
Hey, cheetahs are the fastest animals on the planet. It's as good as a car. Kumar takes one last drag of a joint and flicks it away.
This is either a really smart move, or by far the stupidest thing we've ever done. HAROLD puts his arms around KUMAR to hold on.    Kumar puts the bag of weed under his shirt...
Well, we'll soon find out.  Mush! Mush!
Dude, am I just really high or is this is actually working?!
Both!
This is great! We'll be at White Castle in no...
Along the way, they run by... The BLACK GUYS from the BASKETBALL GAME, all waltzing with each other, in white tuxedos. HUGEST ANGRIEST BLACK GUY gives Harold the same scary look from before.... FREAK SHOW is shoveling some burgers from the ground into a wheelbarrow. He waves to Harold and Maria. He then takes out a CHAINSAW and starts cutting off the arm he's waving with. KUMAR and the MALE NURSE, who are playing Twister, while getting high. After a spin of the wheel, Kumar reluctantly gets in a position where it looks like he's taking the Male Nurse from behind. Kumar's not happy. Harold and Maria fall to the ground-- they roll down a hill, UNTIL HAROLD IS ON TOP OF MARIA. Harold picks up a burger from the ground. Maria does the same. They proceed to feed each other their burgers. They munch on them, looking into each other's eyes...
I love you, Harold.
I love you, Maria. MARIA gets up and runs away. HAROLD playfully chases her. Maria runs over to a FRENCH FRY TREE. SHE PLUCKS A COUPLE
Wow, you guys are really extreme... HAROLD turns and sees COLE KAYAKING DOWN A NEARBY STREAM...
...extremely gay that is.
Oh Harold! Yes! Yes! Oh, God-- you have the biggest dick of all time! It's so long! And wide, for that matter! Suddenly, Harold turns and sees the BURGER SHACK EMPLOYEE lying down near them. He is staring at them, with no expression on his face, with his hand down his pants-- rubbing his penis furiously. Harold is disturbed.
Don't worry about him... MARIA rolls over so SHE'S ON TOP OF HAROLD. SHE STARTS
What the hell are you doing?!!!
I'm sorry! You've been out cold for the past half-hour! I figured that maybe if I did some gay shit you'd wake up. HAROLD wipes his face with his sleeve. He then gets up-- he sees that they are by a random road, all by themselves.
What happened to the cheetah?
It ran away. But forget about that. I have some bad news and some worse news.
 Tell me the worse news first.
I checked out some road signs. The cheetah took us in the wrong direction.
That sucks.    What's the bad news?
Your laptop is completely destroyed. Kumar points to the laptop, which is outside of it's bag, broken in pieces.
It smashed against a tree when you fell off the cheetah.
Why the hell didn't you say that THAT was the "worse news"?
Well, the laptop really only effects you. Whereas the White Castle situation effects both of us equally.
Oh no! No! No!
Don't worry, dude. Your laptop's insured.
It's not that! All my work was saved in there! Now I gotta go back to the office and re-do everything!
Exactly. First, we'll take a cab over to White Castle, then we'll...
Forget White Castle.   There's no time!
Come on, Rold! You can get that shit done in a couple hours. We can't quit now!
Fine...We'll find a pay phone and get a cab back to your office. Harold, furious and almost in tears, simply nods "yes."
 Look, there's a Krispee Kreme.     We'll call from there.
Oh great.     Here we go again. COLE and the EXTREME SPORTS PUNKS are hacky-sacking in the parking lot. Their skateboards are sitting nearby.
 Hey Apu! COLE laughs.   Kumar tries to ignore him...
Who's running the Quik-E-Mart while you're gone? COLE pounds fists with his friends.
 Fucking asshole. Suddenly, HAROLD stops in his tracks. He's noticed something through the Krispee Kreme window. He stops KUMAR and points...
Look! Through the window, we see ROSENBERG and GOLDSTEIN inside, sitting at a booth. They both have a dozen donuts and five cartons of milk. It looks like they just sat down... Goldstein savors his first bite of his POWDERED BLUEBERRY FILLED DONUT and Rosenberg licks his fingers after his first bite of his CHOCOLATE CREAM FILLED DONUT. HAROLD and KUMAR watch through the window longingly...
 I want that.
What?    A chocolate cream filled?
No.  I want that feeling.  The feeling that comes over a man when he finally gets exactly what he desires.  I NEED that feeling.
Are you saying what I think you're saying?
We gotta go to White Castle. KUMAR gives HAROLD a hug.
Yes!    I knew you had it in you! Suddenly, Kumar notices something else inside. Someone else is sitting down at Rosenberg & Goldstein's table...
Is that Cindy Kim? Harold watches as Cindy Kim sits down next to Goldstein. Goldstein puts his arm around her and feeds her a piece of donut. It looks like Goldstein and Cindy are "an item."
You should have boned her when you had the chance. Before Harold can respond, he's hit in the back of the head by a hacky sack! Cole and the Punks laugh at Harold.
 Hey, why don't you just leave us alone?
Oh yeah? What are you gonna do about it, Mr. Miagi? Cole gets in the CRANE POSITION a la THE KARATE KID... Harold is quiet for a moment as he looks at Cole's little racist routine. He then lets out a little laugh...
Nothing. Harold turns around and starts walking towards the Krispee Kreme entrance. Kumar follows. In the background Cole and the Punks are laughing about what a "pussy" Harold is.
 Fuck! I'm so sick of their bullshit!
 Don't worry. The universe tends to unfold as it should. Kumar gives a "What the fuck is he talking about?" look.
Besides, I have a plan.   Follow my lead...
Your lead? Harold walks past the Krispee Kreme entrance and heads towards the YELLOW JEEP at a brisk pace. KUMAR follows.
What the hell are you doing?!
I'm stealing their car.
This is your plan?
It's working isn't it?
 Hey, slow down to like 25 mph, so they think they have a chance to catch up.
 Thank you, come again! Harold guns it-- leaving Cole and the Punks in the dust.
I know Extreme Sports Punk #1, I know. The Extreme Sports Punks walk away, leaving Cole by himself.
Victory is sweet! Nice job, Roldy!
I had to do something. KUMAR begins sniffing something in the air...
Wait.   Do you smell that? KUMAR keeps sniffing. He turns around to the back seat. He reaches back and picks something up from off the floor. It's a WHITE CASTLE bag. He pours out the contents and we see EMPTY WHITE CASTLE HAMBURGER CARTONS fall onto Kumar's lap.
Those assholes got to have White Castle?!
This world is so unfair.
Don't worry . Forget about that. We have a car now. We're back in the game. Pretty soon we'll be eating our own White Castle. Want me to drive?
No. I've got everything under control. We should be able to get there with enough time for me to get my work done after our feast. Just find us some tunes. A tape is resting in the tape deck.   KUMAR pushes it in... HAROLD and KUMAR look at each other amazed that COLE has some lame chick song on his tape.
Those guys are fucking posers!
Dude, we're almost there!
sees the yellow jeep speed by. He reloads his rifle...
Bingo.
Oh shit! KUMAR turns around and sees the police car behind them.
I found them. And I'm gonna need back-up.
 Oh boy! We got a chase on our hands!
What are you doing?!
I'm not going back to jail!     We've come too far! Now buckle up.
Buckle up? Kumar buckles his seat belt.   HAROLD MAKES A SHARP TURN...
What the hell? He puts his foot on the brakes, bringing the car to a screeching halt. OFFICER BRUCKS gets out of the car and looks around wondering where the YELLOW JEEP went. HE THEN HEARS THE SOUND OF
Where the hell are we going?!
Just hold on!
It's a good thing I have an empty stomach, or else I'd puke right now!
Don't worry. We're gonna make it. Everything's gonna be...
Shit!                               Fuck!
 Rold! Look out there!
Oh shit!   We're trapped! Kumar notices something...
Not necessarily. KUMAR walks over to the JEEP and points to the HANG-GLIDER...
No. No way. Not a chance.       I'd rather turn myself in than die.
Dude, it's okay. I used to hang-glide with my dad all the time when I was kid. I know how to do it.
You hang-glided? I don't remember that.
We did it on our trips   to India. I swear. I know exactly    what I'm doing. I've even done it with   two people at the same time. My brother    and I did it.
Just hold onto the outside bars and let me take care of the rest.
No, Kumar. I'm not risking my life over a bunch of hamburgers. KUMAR walks over to HAROLD and stares him in the eye...
You think this just about the burgers, huh? Well, let me tell you-- it's about far more than that. KUMAR walks over to the edge of the cliff and looks out onto the EARLY MORNING HORIZON. The sun is still rising. The scene is very picturesque...
Our parents came to this country, escaping persecution, poverty, and hunger. Hunger, Harold. They were very, very hungry. And they wanted to live in a land that treated them as equals. A land where their kids could study and get into good colleges. A land filled with hamburger stands. And not just one type of hamburger. Hundreds of types-- with different sizes, toppings, and condiments. That land was America.
 You think this is just about the burgers? No. This is about achieving what our parents set out for. This is about the pursuit of happiness. This is about the American dream. KUMAR walks over to HAROLD.
And so we've reached this point. The point which all men eventually have to face. The point of no return.  We can stay here, get arrested and end our hopes of ever going to White Castle. Or we can take the hang-glider and make our leap towards freedom. I leave the decision up to you. From the sound of the sirens, it seems that the police are getting closer. Harold turns back, facing Kumar...
I hate you, Kumar.
Hurry up...they're almost here!
Grab onto the end of the bars and hold on tight. HAROLD does as he's told. They are both holding onto the bars .
Okay. Here's how this is gonna work. On the count of three, we're gonna run to the edge of the cliff. When I say "jump," launch yourself forward as if you were diving into a pool, got it?
 I think so.
Don't worry-- everything's gonna be fine. Are you ready? HAROLD's too nervous to speak.   KUMAR gets into position.
Okay, here goes. One...two...three! HAROLD and KUMAR START RUNNING TOWARDS THE CLIFF.
Good job, Rold! Keep running!
Rold, there's something I gotta tell you. I've never hang-glided before.
Oh my God!    Oh my God!   Oh my God!
Dude, it's working!
I can't believe you lied to me!
Hey, how else was I gonna convince you to jump off a cliff?
 It appears they've escaped. They ditched their jeep. OFFICER BRUCKS opens the front door of the car and peers inside. He notices THE BAG OF WEED ON THE DASHBOARD. He opens it and TASTES SOME WEED in the same way a drug cop would taste cocaine during a bust.
 Good news. I found enough dope in the car to send those skateboard punks to jail for the next couple years. Looks like they've terrorized their last convenience store. Suddenly, Officer Brucks realizes that the taste in his mouth is strangely appealing. He thinks for a beat as he eyes the bag of weed. He then takes another taste of it. He looks again at the bag. Like Kumar, we can tell that he's in love...
Dude, we're so high right now.
We're not low. They continue gliding though the sky for a while...
Hey, Kumar?
Yeah?
How are we gonna get down?
Uh...well...I guess it's just gonna go down at some point.
That's a great answer. Made me feel really comfortable. Thanks a lot. KUMAR looks down as they fly over a playground.
Is it a problem if we fly into birds?
Why do you ask?
Because we're about to! KUMAR looks up and sees at least A HUNDRED CROWS FLYING
Oh shit! HAROLD AND KUMAR FLY RIGHT INTO THE CROWS.   Numerous birds collide with their faces...
Ahhhh!   My eyes! Don't peck out my eyes!
We're gonna die! We're gonna die!
I hate you!   I hate you so much!
We're gonna live! Ha! Ha! We're gonna live!  You see, Rold? That wasn't so bad.
 That's it...I'm gonna kill you...
Stop...I...can't...breathe...
That's the point!
Rold...
You're gonna die!
 Rold...look!
We made it, dude.
Looks like you guys had some night, huh? Harold and Kumar look at each other, and then back at the teenager. Their expressions are stone cold...
I want thirty slyders. I want five french fries. I want four large Cherry cokes.
Same.    Only make mine Diet Cokes.
Wow. That comes to...forty-two dollars and seventy-five cents. HAROLD and KUMAR take out their WALLETS.     THEY OPEN THEM UP.
Hey...hey...hey...where's my money?!
You don't have money?! Shit, I gave all mine to that asshole at Princeton! Fuck that hippie fuck! This can't be happening! We're so close and we're fucking broke!
Let me take care of it. HAROLD and KUMAR turn around and see NEIL PATRICK HARRIS finishing his coke. He throws it in the trash. HAROLD and KUMAR are stunned.
What are you doing here?
You guys kept talking about White Castle last night. It made me start craving it too.
Where's my fucking car you prick!
Yeah. Sorry about that. Like I said, I was tripping balls last night. I don't know what came over me. Your car's out in the parking lot. Here are the keys. NEIL tosses HAROLD the car keys.
Do you realize what we had to go through after you stole the car?
I know. It was a dick move on my part. That's why I'm paying for your meal. Harold and Kumar look at each other, relieved.
Thanks, I guess. NEIL hands them some cash...
Here's fifty for the meal, and two hundred for the car.
 What happened to the car?
I made some love stains in the back seat. You'll see. Anyway, take it easy guys. I'll see you around.
Where are you going?
Wherever God takes me. With that, NEIL walks out of the restaurant.   HAROLD and KUMAR look at each other, confused.
Hey guys...it's gonna take a little while to make all those burgers. You might as well sit down. HAROLD and KUMAR walk over to a booth and take a seat.
Dude, we're here. Isn't it great?
I know. I can't believe we made it. AND we got the car back! If we can just get out of here in a half hour, I can get back to my office and get the work done.
Hey, look! KUMAR points to a TV in the corner of the restaurant.    On the screen we see A MORNING NEWS SHOW.
Today's top story...Rutgers professor Tarik Jackson and attorney Nathaniel Banks are suing the state of New Jersey for racial discrimination and police brutality. We go live to the municipal state courthouse in Muckleburg... Tarik and Nathaniel have a bunch of microphones in front of them...
What happened last night was a complete moral travesty. My family and I are outraged and will not settle for anything less than justice...
 And by justice, we mean somewhere in the ballpark of ten million dollars....
 Hey, good for those black guys!
I'm not racist! This is bullshit! If those black bastards think they're gonna get away with this, they've got another thing coming! Me and my white buddies are gonna [bleep] them up! Officer Palumbo gets shoved forcefully into the back of a police car. Harold and Kumar enjoy this.
This just in...police have arrested a gang of hooligans... We see a picture of COLE and the EXTREME SPORTS PUNKS in the corner of the screen.
...after they found their abandoned car in the forest in Clifton, containing a large bag of marijuana. The young men could face up to five years in prison.
And finally...the Muckleburg Police Department has informed us that they ARE STILL looking for ANOTHER FUGITIVE who escaped from the Police Station last night, along with a companion, believed to be his accomplice...
Police have made the following sketch of the two fugitives, which they believe to be quote "extremely accurate."
 Hey, guys...I got your orders! HAROLD and KUMAR run out of the booth.
Wait...let's do it together.
Oh...that hit the spot.
It was the best meal of my life.
Mine too. The two of them sit there, looking at all the empty containers and wrappers. After a long pause of silence, KUMAR speaks...
Dude, you know what? I think I may actually go to my interview today.
Seriously?
Yeah. You know, my whole life I've been afraid being just another nerdy Indian guy turned doctor. Well, tonight got me thinking...
There are far worse things in the world than being tagged for having a natural ability in medicine... HAROLD pretends to be listening to KUMAR-- BUT HE IS MORE FOCUSED ON BILLY AND J.D., who get out of the car with their women and start walking towards the front door.
Like having boils all over your face. Or dealing with the shit those black guys had to go through.
 Uh-huh.
Besides, I have to admit, it felt pretty cool saving that guy's life last night. Somewhere between that, getting yelled at by my dad, and seeing Neil Patrick Harris, I realized that I've always wanted to be a doctor-- I've just been too scared to admit it. KUMAR sees that HAROLD isn't paying attention...
Hey, Rold, are you listening to me?   I'm having a major epiphany here.
I'll be right back... At that moment, BILLY and J.D. walk in the restaurant with their women, ZOE and TRACY, respectively. TRACY looks like some bimbo slut that J.D. picked up at a strip club. ZOE, On the other hand, has a sweet RENEE ZELLWEGER quality about her. She and Billy are the perfect Hollywood couple...
Hey, Billy-- you paying for this or what?
I'll be there in a second... J.D. and TRACY check out the menu. BILLY takes ZOE aside-- whatever their story is, it seems to have reached the "you complete me" moment...
Look, I have to admit something to you. At the start of last night, all I really cared about was getting some. But then I met you, Zoe. You're so different from all the other women I've ever met. You're smart, funny, artistic. I guess what I'm trying to say is...
What the fuck is going on here? BILLY turns around and sees HAROLD...
Harold?   What are you...?
Never mind me. What are you doing here? I thought you and J.D. were busy all night with "clients." Isn't that why I had to do YOUR work?
Hey! What the hell is going on here?
Back off, cock boy! What I have to say to him goes double for you! KUMAR sees what's going on-- he can't believe it.
Cock boy? I'm sorry, but did you just call me "cock boy?"
Yeah, you know I did. You're just stalling because you're not quick enough to think of a comeback.
Oh, I'm not quick enough?  He thinks I'm not quick enough.  Well, I got news for you...  I am quick enough...  ...cock boy! J.D. is embarrassed. BILLY tries to placate the situation.
Listen Harry...
 Don't even bother with him.   We'll just tell Berenson later...
Tell him what? That I'm your work horse! That you guys think you can just party all weekend and leave all your work to the quiet Asian guy in your office! Huh? J.D. is stunned.   Now he's a little nervous.
No, no-- you don't understand...
No, YOU don't understand. I'm not doing your work anymore.
And if either one of you douchebags ever tries to pull this shit again, I'll go to Berenson and tell him what's really going on. Harold notices Traci and Zoe listening...
And I'll tell everyone in the office how you both caught gonorrhea from that whore. TRACI and ZOE hear this and are freaked out.   They slowly back away from BILLY and J.D....
Now, if you'll excuse me, I have to get going. See you on Monday. HAROLD leaves the RESTAURANT. KUMAR follows.     Billy and J.D. are left embarrassed and in shock.
Way to go, Rold! Where the hell did that come from?
I don't know. Eating those delicious burgers made me feel like a new man. Now I'm actually looking forward to work this week.
No shit! I guess you're worthwhile after all.
I'm not worthless.
So those dudes have gonorrhea?
Beats me.  Now, come on, let's get going.
What's the rush? There's plenty of time before my interview.
I have some unfinished business to take care of. They both get into the car (Harold gets in the driver's side). The car zooms out...
Good luck, dude. KUMAR stands behind, while HAROLD approaches MARIA'S door.
What do you want?
 Oh...uh...nothing...wrong room.
Come back to bed!
 Hey, Papi's coming! Hold on!  This girl is crazy, man.
She seemed so sweet at first, but it turns out she's into some pretty freaky shit. She even did this thing where she took a lollipop and shoved it...
 Look, I really don't need to hear it. I guess I just made a mistake. Sorry for interrupting you guys... Harold starts to walk away, almost crying. SAD, DEPRESSING MUSIC BEGINS TO PLAY. Kumar feels sorry for his friend. Just then, Luis leans his head out the door...
Hey-- if you're looking for Maria, she left for Europe this morning. Harold quickly turns around and runs back over.
Huh?
She's going to Amsterdam for ten days. I'm Luis -- Maria's brother. Luis shakes Harold's hand.    Harold suddenly feels better.
Oh!    Maria's brother!
You must be that Chinese guy Maria keeps talking about.
Actually, I'm Kor...wait a second-- she talks about me? A HOT BLACK CHICK , wearing only a bra and g-string, walks over to Luis and wraps her arms around him...
Are you coming or what?
Hey, I'll be there in a second, baby. Do me a favor-- make me that omelette you were talking about. You know, with the sun-dried tomatoes. Aisha kisses him, and walks away to the kitchen. Luis gives her a little a slap on the ass. Harold doesn't quite know how to respond to this.
 So you want me to leave her a message or something?
Uh, no thanks. I'd rather do it in person.
Then take it easy, hermano. Luis shuts the door.    Kumar runs over to Harold...
Dude...we gotta go!
Huh?   Where?
To Amsterdam! We can pack up right now and take the next plane.
What are you talking about? Are you out of your mind? What about your interview with the med school guy?
Whatever. I'll tell my dad to reschedule it. He won't have a problem, as long as I'm taking it seriously for a change. Now, let's fly to Europe and find Maria!
She's coming back in ten days! It's not like I'm never gonna see her again.
For a hot chick, ten days in Europe is the kiss of death. There are gonna be suave, sophisticated guys all over her. By the time she gets back, she may not be available. Harold feels a little nervous about what Kumar is saying.
Forget it.   I'll just wait till she comes back. Harold starts to walk away from Kumar...
Hey, Rold!   Wait!
You do realize what's legal in Amsterdam, right?
