 I'll go up first. You'll enter from below- He addresses WINK, an eight-foot tall TROLL with grey skin and a huge scar over his left, empty, eye socket. His right hand is missing and he sports a heavy IRON MACE instead. A plume of breath escapes from his brutish mouth.
And remember Wink-
Pre-Celtic votive sculpture is in granite and has been dated circa 700 B.C. Like the guests, the AUCTIONEER is dressed in formal wear. TV MONITORS display the image of the statue so the bidders can have a closer look.
We'll open the bidding at two hundred thousand dollars. A DISTINGUISHED BUYER raises his hand-
Two hundred and seventy-five, and... we have three hundred, thank you Mr. Van Hausen - Three hundred thousand once- A FEMALE BIDDER raise her hand-
And Three hundred and fifty thousand, thank you Mrs. Bernstein- As the auction carries on, a STEWARD leaves the room and heads down -
Suddenly, he sees the SHADOWY FIGURE above the window frame, clinging to the smooth granite wall!!
What the h- Quick as lightning, the SHADOWY FIGURE covers the steward's mouth. When he withdraws his hand, the steward's mouth has
The Shadowy Figure grabs the hapless man by the lapels, hauling him outside and dangling him over the void. Far below: a spiked wrought-iron fence.
A silent human- almost as good as a dead one...
-down- TKKCT!!! Flailing in utter silence. All the way. Onto the fence. The Figure slips through the window and moves into the-
And now, for our next item. Lot #777. Two STEWARDS wheel in an oaken box and open it. Nestled in maroon velvet is an eight-inch, ornately decorated arc of gold.
A once-in-lifetime opportunity. For the first time in auction. A piece of the Royal Crown of Bethmoora... A precious artifact dating from the Atrebatean period. Exquisite workmanship in 24 carat gold. The lights flicker briefly, provoking MURMURS from the audience.
Please- please- ladies and gentlemen... may I have your attention. As I was saying, observe the fanciful creatures adorning the outer surface, figures from a lost mythology... The lights go out completely. From the sudden darkness, the Shadowy Figure speaks up.
Lost- ? Not at all. Forgotten by you perhaps, but very much alive.
Sir, would you please identify yourself? I see no badge or-
Shall we just say that I am the rightful owner of this piece? He seizes the artifact. The auctioneer grabs a phone and hits a button.
 Security- Call Security- This is an outrage- An- The SHADOWY FIGURE reaches into his pockets and throws a handful of seeds at the Auctioneer's feet.
-Outrage of- KRRRRR-K the seeds sprout into massive, thick branches and roots and instantly engulfing the Auctioneer amidst coils of wooden branches, crushing him. They grow and grow until they crack the ceiling!! Soon the Auctioneer disappears, and in its place stands a compact, twisted tree. Tiny creatures emerge from its branches and crawl around the trunk. CRASH!!!!! Four SECURITY GUARDS come flying through the side doors and land in the aisles with a THUD!!! The spectators scream. WINK walks in. He carries two large IRON BOXES on his back. On the sides of the boxes A ROYAL SEAL, embossed in the metal. People cower in the corners, SCREAMING in terror and disbelief. WINK shrugs the iron boxes to the floor with a CLANG!!!! Inside them, little clawed THINGS are scrabbling - mewling, fast and hungry!! At the Shadowy Figure's signal, the troll opens the cages... and the people's SCREAMS redouble.
May this remind you all why you once feared the dark... A multitude of eyes glint in the darkness, rows and rows of tiny teeth shine greedily. They lunge at CAMERA.
A blurry figure approaches and raps a ring finger against the tank: It's TOM MANNING, chief FBI liaison to the BPRD. Looking dyspeptic, he presses a folder against the glass:
Hey, Fishstick- We gotta talk.
Look at that- Each photo costs a fortune to suppress. And then, naturally, they pop up on the net. CAMERA moves in on Abe's breathing apparatus. It's sleek, more modern, fitting snugly to his gills and neck. His goggles are new, too. He examines a photo of Hellboy bounding down a city street, brandishing his mighty, high-caliber Samaritan. He's looking straight at the camera lens.
Oh, Lord- He's smiling in this one.
I know- It's not just the money. It's the provocation. This is asking for trouble. His ego- Manning leans close to a voice-recognition security mike.
"Man-ning..." He enunciates each syllable perfectly, then turns to Abe.
-is out of control. And I think it's all deliberate on his part.
No, he doesn't. He's just- enthusiastic. As they approach HB's room...
How are things between him and Liz?
Oh, you know. The usual. Since they moved in together- Good days and bad. On cue, the concrete wall explodes!'.! A massive BALL OF FIRE swings the final steel door open, almost tearing it off its hinges.
Then again, there are the really bad days- Manning and Abe cower behind a pillar. Once the explosion dies away- Hellboy's revealed, lying on the floor, his back smoking and in flames.
Oh, hi Blue- Manning- He puts out a small flame on his forearm and steps into the room.
 Well- I'm not afraid of you! You hear?? Abe and Manning peek inside-
 Look- I have one rule! One- "Don't touch my stuff -" Liz appears, shimmering in a halo of blue flame. HB's pulls a few LP albums out of the garbage bin.
You have the same album on CD, LP and an 8 track- An 8 track!!!
You can't listen to Al Green on a CD!! You just can't!! Oh, and 8 track was the way to go- one day mankind will realize its mistake.
What about me? I need some space! Not much, but just enough to find- to find- my- toothbrush. She flares up, losing control...
Is that what this is about?? Your toothbrush's right there, behind you-  There- there- with the cat food!! Wrinkling her nose in disgust, Liz plucks a toothbrush from a heap of spilled cat kibble.
Damn it, Red- there's no room for me here. You can't just act like- Suddenly, the alarm SOUNDS. Hellboy is elated.
Oh, heavenly bells are ringing!
Tight-lipped and grumpy, Liz dons black army pants and a leather jacket. She jams an automatic handgun into her utility belt. They move into a vast garage, big as a stadium. It houses a fleet of planes, cars, boats, helicopters and tanks. They load weapons and ammo on board their usual transport/mobile quarters - a GARBAGE TRUCK. The perfect gentleman, Hellboy holds the door open for Liz. The truck interior has been refurbished with more high-tech equipment. As the engine starts and the headlights blaze...
Oh, Jeez- did you see the crowds? He offers HB a couple of cigars and lights one for him.
This is midtown Manhattan... Will you promise to be careful? You'll use discretion?
Piece of cake. In and out... no one will see me. You have my word- A sarcastic guffaw from Liz.
No one here. No survivors. No bodies.
Same story here, babe-
 Don't call me babe-
I said "Abe"- I'm sorry- wrong channel- Hellboy falls back to talk privately on the intercom.
Liz- UM-?
 Yes?
That's not the problem and you know it.
No. That's not the problem either-
Not now, for God's sake!
Red- I'm afraid I do detect some activity- As the agent and Liz inspect the other iron cages, he extends his webbed fingers.
What kind of creature?
There's more than one-? He hears a scratching noise.
 More- Many more-
How many- ten-?
No. Maybe a hundred- or two-
As HB nears a wall, it bulges and splits open!! The ceiling cracks, too. He hurriedly loads a pair of lever-action
They're all around us- Sounds of MOVEMENT from burrowing, unseen creatures-
What are they???
Uh- If I'm right, we should leave now and ask for backup.
The situation is completely under control. Earlier tonight, customs agents discovered a few illegally imported items. This caused a minor confrontation. The reporters go wild with questions.
Federal agents have now taken over the premises. We ask that you all step back- Manning basks in the flashbulb glow and acknowledges a pretty young REPORTER.
What are they-? Abe?
Ah, I knew it.
Have you noticed the floor??
 Uh- thick rug, deep pile, light brown-
Red- there is no rug- Hellboy lifts his foot, realizing he's been walking on an inch-thick layer of- ahem- poo.
Aw, crap-
Precisely...
Spit it out, brother blue. What are they?
Alright, but-
Damn it Abe, just tell us!
Okay, then- They're- um- tooth fairies.
Abe, c'mon- cut the crap. She checks her boots, sticky with poo-
Third century, the Teutoburg forest. Famished. They feed on calcium-
Hey, this guy is cute -i. He reaches out to touch it.
Are you scared, buddy? Across the room Hellboy sees the Agent nearing the Fairy.
No, don't- The thing SNARLS, leaps and sinks its tiny teeth into MARBLE's finger. Then it dives under MARBLE's shirt and goes to work. MARBLE gasps and drops his gun. Dozens of creatures emerge from the crack on the wall and crawl into Marble's clothing. Gasping, he tears open his shirt as claws and teeth dig in.. ribs crack... blood spurts. The agent falls.
 Oh, my-
EMPTY_LINE
In reply, he hears a faint scream. He bats at the things with the SHOTGUN, wading further into the room.
Liz!! Where are you - ?! He sees a horde of little beasts gnawing at the metal bars of a cage... .Liz cowering inside. Hellboy just has time to look deep into her eyes. A quick moment of silent communion.
Do it, Liz, do it!!! And Liz obeys. Closing her eyes she-
He takes refuge as-
It is mine- -the gentle flame blooms into a cloud of fire. Liz goes supernova. BAMMM!!!
Hey guys, hey guys, come back!!
Red, Red, this way- Hellboy kicks the critters away, shooting again and again.
No- I'll deal with them- NOW. He dumps his backpack and pulls out a belt full of VULCAN 66 grenades. Holds it high.
Vulcan 66, boys! Come and get 'em- Liz and Abe take cover on the stairs. They see Hellboy luring the tooth fairies toward the windows overlooking the street.
Below, the onlookers scatter as the massive Red Giant lands in their midst, cracking the pavement.
 HB?? HB?? Are you alright??
 Gee whiz, Manning-
Check it out. That guy's make-up is so fake. I mean, come on, solid red- Guard 2 is cleaning his gun.
And what's with his forehead? Is that goggles? He looks out the window and sees the THE SHADOWY FIGURE standing by the gates.
Hey, we got us a wino. He grabs his nightstick and steps outside.
Hey- buddy- get the- The THE SHADOWY FIGURE whirls and drops his coat. He unsheathes a long, thin sword, slicing the air around the guard. The guard's shadow in the background is cut into three parts and collapses.
Prince Nuada- He awaits you- Please, follow me, Sire.
The Prince prepares to unsheathe his sword- WINK growls.
I beg you, your majesty. Before entering the chamber you surrender your sword.
I will not.
Then, I regret to say, you may not see your father. It is the protocol, sire. For peasant and prince alike. Please- for the last time- surrender your sword. A tense beat and then the Prince relents. The guards accept his weapon, carefully pat him down-
Mr. Wink however- cannot dispose of his weapon. He will wait here- WINK snorts as the Prince is finally escorted through a huge, rusting iron door.
Both on the King's chest and her own, a large golden piece dangles from a chain. Nuala's resemblance to the Prince is uncanny, down to the fine scars marring their perfect faces. They're YING and YANG, almost the same being. The Prince eyes the doors closing behind him. The armed guards watch his every move. He bows his head and kneels.
Father. 
The KING gestures for him to rise.
Why have you done this?? His voice trembles with anger.
Why? ! The Prince looks at him, defiant.
I have returned from exile to set us free. All of us, Father- And to reclaim what has been taken from our people. The land and the freedom that is rightfully ours.
No- You have broken a truce that has lasted for centuries.
A shameful truce, worth nothing. How can you abide it? How- ? They have no respect for themselves, their Gods or the earth-
What they do is in their nature. We must honor our side of the agreement-
Honor-?
And what would your solution be-? War? Why?
It may be- but we will not go quiet. We will not fade like this. Better to burn than fade away... And for this... Prince Nuada looks around, locking eyes with the heads of the clans.
.we'll need the help of the Good... the Bad... and the Worst- He brings out the gold artifact from the auction. Holds it high. The crowds GASPS. The King instinctively covers the companion piece hanging from his chest as a medallion.
No- you cannot be that mad-
Yes. I am.
This is the path you wish to take? Knowing the cost?
Yes, Father- it is. The King takes the Princess' hand and mournfully lowers his head.
Then, I am sorry my son- you leave me no choice.  Death. His two PRAETORIAN GUARDS unsheathe their swords.
Hear me all!!! There are some amongst you that have already seen the light-  Seen the future... The PRAETORIAN GUARDS cover his back as he leans forward to his Father"s corpse and snatches the medallion.
As for you- You may join us in our quest or die now- His gaze is fierce, inspired. He joins the pieces together, they fuse and interconnect through the magical equivalent of NANOTECHNOLOGY. Minute gears and hooks join the pieces seamlessly into an almost complete CROWN. The Prince raises
All of those in favor, make it known.
Good- I see the council is as brave as it's always been...
Find her- Find her- His minions surge into the tunnels.
She lands in a stone chamber lined with bookshelves.
No- no- you fools-
 Yrdrig!! YRDRIG, a hellhound the size of a tank, jumps out from an alcove. He has multiple heads, all of them ferocious. In seconds, he's upon the TROLLS. Each of his many mouths tears into green flesh, lifting and shaking the helpless monsters like rag dolls. The Princess slips through a secret door.
I think I did good. And I looked good, don't you think, Liz? Abe stands behind them, juggling a dozen remote controls.
Look- there's Manning... He raises the volume as Manning is shown, surrounded by microphones.
A gas pocket??!! Ha-! I love it. The door opens. Manning is there, holding a plastic box overflowing with mail.
Disgusted, Manning turns off the TV's.
Aw- this is a disaster! A disaster- you hear?? Worse than Cheney with a shotgun. Only Liz-
 No one asked me anything. Manning pulls a fistful of mail out and tosses it on a table.
Don't bother starting a fan club. It's trending five to one against us.
Against?
 Polls- protests- hate mail- Liz grabs a few letters and scans them.
Ungodly freaks-? Us?
You really did it this time- I'm under review.  But so are you- As of today, there's a new team leader.
New - ? What?
Yes- You heard me. A new team leader. We're to meet him at the conference room at 0900-  Now.
What's the matter, Manning?? Don't you trust me anymore?
Oh- I never did- But after last night, Washington wants a new public face for the BPRD-
What about me? What's wrong with my face???
Or mine??? The press loves me!! But now you've ruined it all-
But, who-? Who is this guy?
How would I know? Evidently, he's quite the big shot-  His name is Johann Kraus-
Akkk- Kraus??? He's German-
I guess they need a nice open face- A face people can trust. Finally, next to steel cage, they meet- JOHANN KRAUS: about 6' tall, dressed in a canvas containment suit full of tubes and taps. His hands are encased in thick latex gloves with exit valves at the fingertips and his head...
. Oh, my God-
Johann Kraus, at your service. His unearthly voice is velvety and warm. Almost soothing. Liz smiles. Hellboy glowers as Kraus' fishbowl head turns toward them.
 That's an open face for you...
Poor things, bought and sold on the black market. Smuggled in tight, cramped cages. Let's see what they can remember-
Memory gets pretty sketchy after you die-  -but maybe I can be of help- Nudges Abe and starts fishing for an amulet.
Oh, no, no- No amulets are required. He adjusts the valves at the tips of his fingers and approaches the lock.
What are you doing?
I can inhabit inanimate things: organic,
Exactly. A PROTOPLASMIC emanation seeps out from his fingertips, slightly deflating his body. The tendrils enter the- -"Dead" Fairy.
I can briefly take control of entities, both mechanical and organic and reactivate their neural system- The "dead" Fairy snarls and bares its teeth at Hellboy. Two more do the same from another pen.
 You scare him- The fairy blabbers furiously while glaring at HB.
 Whaddayawant??? You chewed off the tip of my tail- Yes, you-
Rough translation: He says you are rude, brutish and not too bright-
Touche. More high-pitched jabbering... Johann replaces the little fairy in the holding pen.
Enough. it seems our little friend here remembers a noise. A very peculiar noise in the last place where his cage was traded: market sounds-
The troll market- ?
Exactly, Miss Sherman. The Fairy starts babbling uncontrollably and grows pale and weak.
Jeez- your buddy there doesn't look too good.
I'm losing my grip on its limbic system- He feels nauseous. I'm afraid he's about to die-
Wow- You have that effect on me too. The Fairy's cheekbones hollow and it finally collapses. Ectoplasm escapes its body and regroups at Johan's fingertips.
How can we find the Troll market??? Its location has been a source of speculation for centuries
Yes, well- Trolls dwell under bridges- And Vladimir Vanya 18th century occultist- places it under Washington Bridge
We've looked there before-- Staked it out for weeks-
Yes, but this time I have asked for a very special piece of equipment- He moves in to a large crate marked "Lot 336"
"336" The schufftein glasses??
 On loan from the Smithsonian. Plus we have this clue- He produces the sketch of the ROYAL SEAL.
In my mind we have enough to go by- Any questions?? Abe is about to ask something when, abruptly, Hellboy raises his hand-
Yes- what is it?
If you're really German- how come you don't have a funny accent?
What a moron!! "We are on the move" He thinks he's so hot!! We've been looking for that place for years and we've never found it-  You said so- Abe pulls out TWO headsets of COMPOSITE GOGGLES, made of copper and glass, full of buzzing and whirring pieces. He tries it on.
Get used to it. He might be here for good-
For good?!
He has a nice voice.
Yes, very commanding, very soothing.
I think he's a jerk.
I like him.
Well, then you're a jerk, too. "The brains of the operation-" give me a break!
They head towards the garbage truck. Manning, Abe and are waiting there.
I think you feel threatened... Hellboy stays behind- thinking- thinking real hard.
Ha! Me? Threatened?? Glaring, at Liz:
By whom? By him??
Not just him- this whole thing you did. The TV- the reporters-
I did that?
Yes, Red- absolutely. 'Cause you did it without thinking- You just wanted to be in the public's eye- well- you're there- but so are we.
Hey- We got some hate mail.
Something else bothering you-? Liz nods quietly.
So- Tell me about it-
I will, but not now- I'm sorry if- I-
May I suggest that tonight you refrain from signing autographs.
It's the garbage truck. It makes the wrong statement. About who we are.
You think that's what this is about? Transportation???
C'mon- show us your powers-
Oh- No, no, no, it's not a parlor trick.
What are you, a mermaid??
Oh, goodness, no- I-
You say you can read things- things about people- so read me- c'mon- read me- The crowd of reporters and onlookers laughs and applauds.
What do you see?
Very well, if you insist.  You... keep... a large, battery-operated vibrating egg by your bedside... A shrieking CAMERA CREW runs up loaded with video equipment.
You! Demon-man! Will you take a DNA test?
It's "Hellboy" not "Demon-man"- One of the projectiles hits him. The crowd roars. Hellboy gazes back at them- seething.
Let me take care of this. Johann bravely confronts the news teams and the crowd.
Ladies and Gentlemen, my name is Johann Kraus and I beg you to allow us-  -Please, we need space to work- please-
The REPORTERS bombard him with questions. He signals for silence.
In due time- very soon- we will provide all the answers you require, all the whos, whys and wherefors- But for now- An egg hits him in the face- hard. The crowd roars-
Great P.R... He gets ready to pummel the crowd. Liz stops him.
Shh! Give him a chance...
-it's been a long... long time... for many decades really, that the BPRD has served you- all of you... in silence. We have waged an unknown war - but a very real one. Heroes have died unrewarded and unrecognized so that you might go about your daily life. To work, to marry, to bid your children goodnight. Little by little, the crowd grows quiet.
In exchange, we have been consigned to the lies and racist innuendo of the tabloids. And there we have lived without complaint - until now.
Johann's speech is replayed in broadcast TV VANS, HOMES, PUBS and BARS all over the world to a fascinated human population. All colors and creeds.
But perhaps soon- after learning of our hardships and sacrifices, you may decide that our humble lives may, in some way, have a value... and a meaning-
I pray that you will allow us to defend your good fortune- to guarantee the blessing that is a peaceful night's sleep. A night free from monsters and nightmares. And if so-  If so- then all we ask in return... from you... is a little respect and the chance, remote as it may be, to prove ourselves worthy of a tiny, tiny place in this- God's Earth.
 This is sooo corny- A moment of silence ensues-- Then, the wet-eyed reporters applaud- the crowd applauds- Liz applauds, Abe applauds. Hellboy is agog!!
What-?? What-??
Come on. We have work to do-
Nothing yet, Sparky, over-
I read you, Red. Keep looking- Manning is bored, looks at his watch.
Looking at what, for goodness sake-?  What do these things do-? Liz starts locking and unlocking a series of lenses and prisms. Both Abe and Johan wear similar gear.
In 1778 Emil Schufften, a Good friend of Benjamin Franklin, designed these optical sets with the intent of photographing fairies in England...
Let's get out of here- We're never going to find it-
Hey- Sparky, I think we got one. Manning studies the image on the monitor: a bag lady pushing a shopping cart full of cats-
That? Oh, please, she looks as sweet as she can-
Red, turn on the "antiglamour" filter...  Fairy folk use a spell called "glamour" to seem human and nice-
Oh, dear Lord.
She eats them.
"She??" That's a "she"?????
We're moving in, Sparky-
 Bowling balls- they give me trouble.
How about a beer, then? Now that we're "out"- Whaddya say, Mein Herr?
Sorry. I don't drink.
Adjust the prisms to "2" Abe moves his glasses, Hellboy fumbles his own- unsuccessfully. Now the WHOLE ROOM transforms under the new optical elements: Its geometry remains somewhat unchanged, but instead of a pile of boxes a tree trunk and a large, mossy rock are visible, where there were iron beams now tree trunks and stone columns are visible...
Where a large banner hung, now a huge, rusty mechanical lock.
What the heck is that?
A locking mechanism-
Mmh- I'll take care of it- He clenches his stone fist, rears back...
No- You destroy it. We'll never get in- He adjusts the valves at the tips of his fingers and approaches the lock.
Ah, of course- the Fishbowl touch-
Johann's s ecto-tendrils enter the-
Gentlemen: welcome to Troll Market.
Roaming vendors hawk exotic objects from every culture and century. At kiosks and shops, Trolls peddle cats cadres of Lovecraftian entities stroll about: Mer-men, Goblins and a few select species unknown to any cosmology. A dogfight of sorts is taking place in a small ring. Instead of pitbulls, multi-limbed creatures leap at one another while violent bettors laugh and shout. At the rail, Abe watches in horror, then sees a woman in rags making her way through the crowd. He catches a glimpse of her slippered feet... .which flash with pearls and gold embroidery. His curiosity aroused, he follows her.
 Brother Red!!
Never seen anything like it. No one sells `em down here - over in Jersey, maybe. Behind him, there's a faceless CAVE BERSERKER: a tall and gnarly ogre, his naked chest crisscrossed with scars, his feet encased in iron shoes. Growling, it bares its teeth at HE. HB smiles back-
Hiya, Chuck-
What about this?? Do you recognize this seal?
You'd better go. Now.
Please. We'll make it worth your while. The shop owner claps his hands. BERSERKER takes two steps forward, ROARING. Its iron shoes go CLOMP-CLOMP!!
He's not friendly- Hellboy huffs and walks up to the creature.
Well, neither am I- BAMMMM!!!!! With a single uppercut, he sends it flying toward the ceiling, shoeless. The shop keeper watches in awe until it lands, about thirty feet away in the middle of the dogfight. The crowd scatters as the mongrel creatures attack the thing with blind instinct. Hellboy grabs the shop owner by the lapels and pulls him close. The shop owner's head rockets back and forth like a boxer's speed bag as HB "gently" slaps him around. Teeth fly everywhere.
Feeling more chatty now??
It's rumors! ... just- No- don't hit me, all right? There's talk of a revolt- a revolt against the human world- Hellboy releases him, then looks around.
Where the hell is Abe?? He pushes his belt locator-
I'm following a lead, Red. Keep your locator -. A large TROLL cuts him off-
Excuse me- What do you think you're doing?
I don't think you- The TROLL opens a small wooden box and extracts a nasty looking Insect: A NARCOTIC BUG.
Oh, my- The second TROLL loads the buzzing bug - like a bullet - into a blowpipe. Abe turns just as he blows. The bug lands on Abe's chest and sinks its stinger deep into his flesh. He groans.
Abe? What's wrong?
If you are looking for your weapons, my guards took them. Abe turns to face the Princess, who stands only a few feet away. She has cast off her dingy cloak and is radiant in fine silk robes. She is feeding slices of fruit to a cage of large, featherless REPTILE/BIRDS.
I - I carry no weapons, madam- I assure you...
Why were you following me? Abe is ashamed to realize the real answer. He's utterly beguiled by her.
Are you seeking to join my brother?
Your brother-??
In his revolt against the humans?
A revolt? No, no, no, I- You are sorely mistaken... He takes a step forward but the YRDRIG comes out of nowhere, barking and growling.
Then answer me truthfully- Why were you following me?
My name is Abe Sapien -
Horrible- I know- but- Please, hear me, I beg you. I am an agent of the Bureau for Paranormal Research and Defense. If we can assist you-
Give me your hand. Abe complies, thrilled as she runs her fingers over his palm. The Princess' face brightens. She smiles and gestures for the YRDRIG to yield.
Down Yrdrig - he's a friend. The YRDRIG jumps on Abe and starts licking him with all three tongues.
Yrdrig's really just a puppy. The drooling beast pins Abe to the floor with one paw.
My father gave him to me. Yrdrig, leave our guest alone- The Yrdrig drops Abe onto the floor.
Out! Out! Bad Yrdrig! As the animal skulks away, she helps Abe up-
 My name is Princess Nuala.
 Your highness, the honor is all mine.
May I apologize, Mr. Sapien, for the manner in which we brought you here... couldn't be too sure. She offers him the locator belt.
Please, it was nothing. Love the puppy,
And under diplomatic immunity - may I seek asylum??
We would be... honored, I'm sure. But, may I ask: from whom do you seek asylum? Suddenly, a COMMOTION outside. The door flies off its hinges. Hellboy and Johann burst in, leaping over a pile fallen guards outside.
Red, no! I'm all right! The Princess shrinks back, but Abe motions for calm.
Gentlemen! Some respect, please! The Princess looks with dismay at her vanquished bodyguards. The NARCOTIC BUGS buzz around HB, who swats them like mosquitoes.
And that was my royal guard.
Red, apologize at once! We are in the presence of... royalty! Hellboy's never heard Abe sound like this- giddy as a schoolboy.
 You're vouching for her, I take it. Mr Sapien?
Oh, most definitely. She's from an ancient, noble line -
- of warriors. The Children of the Earth.  I'm sorry, Princess Nuala. With such a fierce bloodline, we cannot take your claim of allegiance at face value. He produces the ANCIENT SEAL.
Where did you get this?
Human side, two nights ago- The Princess studies their faces.
In ancient times a seal like this was delivered to the enemy as a declaration of war. A signal from the underground realm to the entire world. It prefaced the awakening of the Golden Army- Johann sits down heavily.
I feared as much.
 What-? What-? A goblin army-? Johann shakes his glass head, overcome with worry.
Golden Army. The unstoppable tide. There has been nothing to substantiate such a
Not a tale- At the dawn of time... Even before the great flood, man and the Children of the Earth shared this planet...  But as man in his greed expanded his dominion, there ensued a bitter war...
In those days, my people were led by my Father, King BALOR, the one-armed king of Elfland. KING BALOR fights valiantly at the side of his son, the tall, pale elf knight: PRINCE NUADA.
The bloodshed went on year after year. Many lives were lost. An overview of the battlefield fades as the sun sinks below the horizon.
It was then that the King ordered the Sigri to build him a new, invincible army.
This was an army that would not eat, drink or grow tired. A heartless, ruthless force made of the purest metal, mined from the depths of the earth.
The Sigri worked until the winter moon was high in the sky - The CHIEF GOBLIN BLACKSMITH displays three curved segments of gold. He fits them together and holds a completed CROWN directly over the King's head.
I am King Balor, leader of the Golden Army. Is there anyone here who disputes my right??? Silence. Prince NUADA kneels next to his father. The Goblin crowns the King, who lifts his sword. In response- TCHANKKKKK!!!! The new army raises its lances, hailing him.
But this army knew no bounds, had no remorse, felt no loyalty, engaging in blind battle with man, woman or child. The horde crushes everything, with swords slicing through armor as if it were paper. Every blow is deadly, precise. The army marches ever onward, like a grinding machine devouring tender flesh. At length, there is no sign of life in the human camp.
And as the king gazed upon the earth awash in blood and at the impassive metal faces of the army he had created, his heart grew heavy. Victory was gained at too high a price. This war should never have been waged. The King surveys the carnage. The mechanical soldiers stand in symmetrical ranks awaiting further instructions.
And so he arranged a truce: the surviving men would keep to their cities and we children of the Earth would dwell within the forests. This pact, he declared, would be honored by our sons and the sons of their sons until the end of time. Listening to his father, Prince Nuada reacts with anguish.
But my brother did not believe in the promises of men. He marched off into exile, vowing to return if the Sons of the Earth ever needed him. Prince Nuada walks away towards a dying sunset.
And the golden army was ordered to lie dormant, locked inside the earth itself - and there it is to this day, waiting for the wearer of the crown to command it again.
Where is that crown??
My father had it destroyed. Cut into three pieces. One for mankind... She holds up her piece of the puzzle, which dangles from a chain around her neck.
.Two for the sons of the Earth.
So, you do need our help..?
I'm afraid it's the other way around. She holds the CYLINDER she purchased.
The location of the Golden Army is contained within this cylinder-- She opens it and produces a parchment hidden inside. She extends it: the map just shows three coordinates.
Just a global chart, Edo - that's the old name for Tokyo - Moscow, and Renvyle here-
But nothing else- She rolls back the map into the cylinder.
So far, this is a family matter. To intervene will bring nothing but trouble.
Good, I like trouble.
No- not that way. Too risky- They're lost in unfamiliar alleys and byways. Until-
 There. Stairs to the street...
Hold! The Prince appears at the top of the stairs, dressed in black. He's surrounded by his elite guard. Stepping to the rail, he points at his sister and addresses the crowd:
Hear me, o creatures of the forest! Can you recognize a traitor? She's here to betray her own! He casts a disdainful look at Hellboy.
I'm here to recruit all of you against the humans. Make your decision now. Those who join me will be rewarded. The rest... will be killed. A sudden silence falls over the throng. Then, the sound of CRACKING KNUCKLES. Everyone looks at Hellboy, who is unclenching his fists and stretching his neck. He starts up the stairs, but a couple of the GUARDS leap down to block his path.
I'm gonna put this as delicately as I can.
Look out, Manny! Strike city..! CRASH! Hellboy erupts from under the floorboards, fighting the clawing monsters right behind him! As the bowlers freeze in shock, dozens of creatures pour out into the human world. Grunting, Hellboy punches his way free, only to be dragged back by the tail by WINK. Abe, shielding the Princess, demonstrates the way of the water, a fluid martial arts display. He ducks and parries the blows, leaping like Nureyev. Abe scoops up a couple of bowling balls and rolls them at the Prince's guards. He manages to knock a couple off their feet. As they get back up, he uses the available bowling pins as clubs. The screaming PATRONS rush for the doors.
Help me...! Please, somebody..!
 Oh, my God!! Oh, my- Roll! Roll on this!
It's not what you think -!
 He's lost his mind! He's worse than any of them..! CUT BACK to Hellboy, revealing that the old lady is actually
Liz runs over with a prism from the SCHUFFTEIN GOGGLES and sticks it in front of the camera lens, revealing the truth. The reporter checks his monitor.
 I will find you, young daemon -  - and you, too, my sister. Meanwhile, here's a taste of what lies in store.
It's a dud, your royal assness - ! The Prince has disappeared, along with his horde.
How do you like that? Just when I was loosening up. Then... CLACKK!!!. Hellboy scrutinizes the grenade as it opens up like a beans. flower... and spews out a handful of Brightly colored
Pick them up!!
Abe. relax- It's jumping beans... Abe is scrambling to retrieve them.
Do as I say! With a sigh, Hellboy scoops up a few.
How many do you have?
Three, how about you?
Three! There's always seven! Find the last one!!!
The seventh bean is next to a manhole. It hops closer edge...
Quick, it's going for water! Hellboy reaches for it... but it's too late. The thing hops into the manhole and lands somewhere below with a SPLASH.
Oh, my God, evacuate the area!
Abe, please, get a grip. A RUMBLE from below their feet. WHAMMMM! A HUGE TREE punches up through the pavement, overturning cars, knocking buildings off their foundations and ripping up through the Bridge overpass!! Picking up speed, the tree branches soar up, up, up... into the moonlit clouds. Hellboy approaches the massive, trunk, gazing up in fascination. Birds and creatures emerge from the inside and flutter around, grass overtakes pavement- and for a moment Chinatown looks like the Garden of Eden.
Whoa. Just like the story books. Manning and Liz take a few steps into it: a SQUIRREL-BEING climbs on Liz's shoulder and a couple of IRIDESCENT HUMMINGBIRDS fly around her "ala" SNOW WHITE. A small crowd starts wandering into this idyllic scenario.
This is so beautiful-
So- perfect- so peaceful-
Hey!!! He spots. the prince, at the base of the tree. Knocking on it-
Hey- Jhonny Apleseed- What are you-?? Oh- Jeez did you have to do that?? Liz starts pulling Manning away and yelling at the crowd-
Back- Go back- right now!!!
What? What? What is he doing-?
He's knocking on wood- summoning an
An elem-
A forest spirit that lives in that tree. He's releasing it-
Oh, and is it that bad?? KKKRRRRCHTCH!!!!! The tree trunk rumbles and shakes under some enormous force. Huge LEAVES tumble to the street. Even the ever-present NEWS CREWS back away as a huge shape descends. BOOM!! the trunk rips in two, revealing a curled, dormant
Five stories high- Fierce as nature. THE ELEMENTAL steps out of the tree and stares at Hellboy. Uttering a weird, guttural SOUND, the Giant raises an arm and pulverizes a GASOLINE TRUCK! WHUMP- ! Flames leap up! The Elemental grins with delight, turning his baleful gaze on the Princess. As she shrinks back, her pet Yrdrig rushes at the thing, snarling. In a single leap, it sinks its teeth into the Elemental's heel.
Good dog.  Now, Woody... You want to fight someone, you fight with me. Hellboy humorously adopts a kung fu pose, as in Bruce Lee. The Elemental hops forward, New branches sprout from his limbs, shaking the Yrdrig off.
 This may not be the best place for you, your majesty. With your permission... He offers the Princess his arm. She takes it and allows Abe to lead her away. A moment later, the Elemental smashes the ground where they had been standing! Every time the ELEMENTAL moves, he trails behind roots and branches. The roots connecting to its feet and leading to the original tree trunk, like an umbilical cord. Johann sees this-
I have a plan- He looks at Abe-
 What now, Big Boy? You get a ladder? The Elemental jumps up and down, trying to reach him, barking in frustration. Hellboy's RADIO crackles:
 HB? This is Blue. The Princess is fine.
So what?
So, lead him to the bridge. Hellboy looks over the buildings and sees the Brooklyn Bridge in the distance.
That's nine blocks from here, Fishbowl!
You'll figure it out.
What's at the bridge? Abe - ? Liz? Hello??? No answer. Muttering, Hellboy climbs higher, up a buzzing neon sign reading "Hotel". The Elemental smashes the letters "tel"... so Hellboy climbs the "0" to the roof.
Johann - they're almost here. Johann moves among massive construction machinery. He stops at a stack of heavy SPOOLS OF CABLE. Abe comes running, pointing at the cable.
Yes. I had the very same idea... He gets behind the levers and handles of a complex machine which holds a half mile of steel cable.
 .but how do you operate this??
If you'll permit me... Johann opens his fingers, and plunges both arms deep into the mechanism! Instantly, the diesel engine STARTS UP.
 Stand back, Abe. A hydraulic strut lifts the spool, then pitches it through the air, spinning off 300 yards of cable. It splashes down near the far shore of the East River.
Now, tie it onto the pontoons on the other side.  Quickly, Abe!
 Macht schnell! Abe - make it fast! The cable is a yard short of the anchor point! Abe tugs on
I need more!
No more available! The Elemental's feet stomp through the river; he stumbles as he encounters the submerged cable.
Clinging to the cable, Abe is dragged down, down down... past rusting cars, oil drums... and a couple of rotting CORPSES, their feet in tubs of cement! Suddenly, Abe's head strikes a sunken truck, knocking him unconscious. Blood seeps from his wound.
 Haven't you managed to kill it yet? You, who were so eager for a fight? The Prince is standing on top of the tower. He points at Hellboy, then yells at the Elemental.
 Over here, dear friend... SNATCH! The Elemental plucks Hellboy off a parapet! Hellboy wriggles in the massive wooden finger-like appendages.
This might be a good chance for you to come to your senses. Help us.
I've been all through this! The answer's still no! Far below, Johann slips his right arm into the cable, bringing it to life, whipping it back and forth, like a steel snake! The cable forms a huge loop, splashing down near the Elemental and tightening around his ankles. The cable
 Burn the roots!!! Burn them!!i He points at the roots trailing into the river. Liz concentrates and a bolt of fierce white-hot energy pours out of her hands, burning the roots at the Elemental's feet. Johann gyrates; the cable responds, whipping up out of the river! With a bellow, the Elemental loses his balance; he tosses Hellboy high into the air. On the way down, Hellboy grabs a support stay and swings back and forth like a red monkey. He lands atop of the Elemental's back, right behind his head.
Nap time, Big guy- He raises his stone fist and hits him straight in the back of the neck. The cable tenses- -The Elemental pitches forward- The Prince looks up to see the Elemental falling right at him; his mouth opens as if to scream... The Elemental goes down, impaling himself on a spire atop the bridge... exactly where the Prince had been standing. Putting an end, it seems, to both of them.
You'll permit a small criticism? You take too much time to aim, to think. Nein. Just point- like afinger- as if you wish for something.
Oh, I wish for something. Johann brings his target close: a beautiful, tight cluster of shots, dead center.
Speed is of the essence. You must work on it. I'm willing to spend some - Johann reaches for his loader, accidentally knocks Heliboy's onto the floor.
Hey, watch it! You're winding me up, I don't like it.
On the contrary.
You keep wiping that thing like she's gonna care.
She- Who-??
You know who- She-
 You think I'm after Liz, don't you?  Well, I'm not.
Why not?
Well- From now on, you don't come near her. You don't talk to her-
You forget. I'm part of the team now, such interactions are inev-
Well- you better start making them "evitable"-
That's not a word-
Yes, it is-
No, it isn't- Hellboy raises his stone fist.
Now it is-
Oh, I see- you want to punch me- That's how you win an argument.
I try.
Well, you're big, I'll give you that much-
"Give me???"- You don't give me sh-
-and you're strong- but you're slow.
Slo-??
Very- slow- I've seen your fighting style. Very slow- WHAM-! Hellboy cracks Johann over the head with his massive fist. To his surprise, the Johann's glass ball cranium shatters!
Slow enough for ya-?? With a loud HISSS, Johann's odd suit sags to the floor!
Ow- Johann... buddy. Sorry- I- I- got carried away...  Johann? You still hear me? An ectoplasmic TENDRIL reaches out from the suit and penetrates the closest locker.
It was an accident, okay? I'll get you some help-
See? Speed is the key. The vaporous form of Johann's body emerges from the lockers and wanders away. The locker room doors open and close as he goes by. Hellboy tries to stand, wobbles and sits.
Chicken shit!
"I sometimes have a queer feeling - especially when you are near me, as now: it is as if I had a string somewhere under my left ribs, tightly and inextricably knotted to a similar string situated in the corresponding quarter of your little frame."
I love this part. Keep going.
"I am afraid that cord of communion will be snapt; and then I've a nervous notion I should take to bleeding inwardly." She closes the book, looking troubled.
Charlotte Bronte died shortly before I was born. It would have been a great privilege to have known her...
This "Jane Eyre"... I understand it's only a story, but such a tie that binds, it exists between me and my brother. I assure you: my brother, he's not dead-
How can you know? We all saw-
We are twins. Even now, I can sense his presence. This has been our way since we were young children, in Renvyle-
Renvyle, Ireland- The ancient isles-
Men... usually mean well, I believe that. But they need our help and patience.
You were very brave, vouching for me. How do you know I'm not the enemy, bringing me here?
It's as you were saying, I suppose. From intuition, feeling. I've never met anyone like you... but that's my instinct. They gaze fondly at each other through the glass, as bubbles swirl out of Abe's gills.
He caught me off-guard- but I'll get him next time. He's examining a few letters, contract forms, etc.
There shouldn't be a "next time" we're all part of the same team.
We are- he's not- The guy's an egomaniac. You can see right through him.
 Look!! They wanna do a cartoon series, based on me? And this:  Product endorsement - breakfast of demons. And a videogame!!! As CITY LIGHTS ends, Liz lifts the remote to turn the volume up.
Gosh, that was so sweet, so sad- It always gets me- Red- There's something I need to-
 No, wait.  Look that's us- Jay is showing some footage from the giant incident.
So- this "Hellboy" what is he?? Is he really on our side?? I mean, he's red, has a tail and shaves his horns- horns, Ladies and Gentleman. Horns are never a good sign.
Maybe we should have him come over and talk to us a little, uh? Whaddayathink?? The crowd roars.
That's a great idea, don't you think??
No, I don't-
Did you know that during the commercial breaks the orchestra keeps playing so the guest can't talk to Jay... keeps the conversation fresh.
How do you know these things?
I read it in TV Guide.
You're really liking this, aren't you?
We should do this-
It's a bad idea. All of it- Do you really need everybody to like you?? What's in it for you?? Are we not enough??? She leaves. Hellboy glances at Leno on TV: a dog outfitted in a ballerina costume is jumping around with a red ball balanced on its nose. Hellboy chuckles.
That's funny.
Are you alright-? Liz nods weakly.
May I be of assistance??
Maybe.
He's a big brute, isn't he?? Liz chuckles.
But he has a good heart. I know it. He means well.
I think I may have made a mistake.
In what way, Mein Frau??
Just a mistake- nothing important.
It never is. I know. Lis looks at him with renewed interest.
I was married once. A long, long time ago... And only after I lost her- I realized that my life would never be quite the same- And my loss lead me to become what I am today... Johann's human face materializes inside his glass helmet.
I- I tried constantly to make contact with her-
It was only there- in the Ethereal plane that I ever gazed upon her again... CAMERA close in on several ceremonial candles burning in the room. Their flame illuminating the eerie scene.
But it was there, while he was partially on the ethereal plane, that disaster
He is about to embrace his wife's form when a horrible rumble occurs and the void bursts in flames, destroying and distorting everything around him- His wife's shape screams and evaporates.
All the seance attendees were incinerated. The only survivor -and only to some extent- was me- Why? I'll never
The form moves towards its body and attempts to climb back and reanimate it, but the CHARRED CORPSE is barely amble to amble a few steps forward before collapsing into ash and bone... The shape of Ectoplasm stands there, alone and lost- Then, Professor TREVOR BROOM wanders into the scene and approaches the form-
It was then that Professor Broom and the B.P.R.D. devised a containment suit for me. A new body-
I owe Professor Broom everything that I've become. He brought me back to life- He grows silent for a brief moment.
But I've never been able to see her again. My reach became limited- My loss, infinite... Liz puts her hand on his shoulder. Johann takes it...
Loss- the very threat of it makes us vulnerable... makes us care- You can see that, don't you?? Without her I became but an empty shell... Liz leans her head on his shoulder.
Don't give up on him. Not yet. Liz chuckles.
No. Not yet. CAMERA discovers HELLBOY, watching them from behind a glass door, a six-pack in his hand. He steps away.
He stops, puzzled. Strains of Barry Manilow are emanating from the library.
Ah, hello Red. You're up late.
Liz and I- we had a fight-
Hellboy eyes the CD player.
Did I hear Barry Manilow just now?
 Barry M- oh, Gosh- no- no-  It was er- urm- Vivaldi. Il cimento dell'armonia I believe I particularly admire the passage... Hellboy hits the eject button on Abe's CD player. The music stops and he pulls out a different CD from the changer.
What's happening to you??
Ooh- Ooh-
You say that like it's a good thing.  What track?
I know-
"Can't smile without you"
I'd cry, but I don't have the glands for it..
I miss him- Father- don't you??
He would tell what to do- He would tell what's right- what's wrong-
He did that for all of us... The opening strings of "Can't Smile Without You."
 You know? I- I never much appreciated Manilow's artistry that much- until now- Now it seems to be a grand poet and speaks directly to my innermost feelings.
Jeez- You need to get out more- The two of them sit there, growing quiet, listening to the syrupy music. Then, slowly, the two of them start singing: low at first and then at the top of their voices, moved and teary-eyed.
This is a whole new ballgame and I want you to take my lead.
I find these leather outfits very
Maybe so, maybe so- but they look- hip.
Correctamundo, chief. For one thing, we can ditch the garbage truck, right?
Wait, Red, the lab's in it-
Screw the lab. I want new wheels.
A gift from General Motors. One for each of you. Each Hummer has custom paint: Hellboy's with scenes of Dante's inferno, Liz's with flames and Abe's with an underwater vista.
This is more like it!
I'm not driving that- Abe has opened the hood on his Hummer.
This is a most unfortunate vehicle. The sheer waste of precious fossil fuels...
An American custom, it's called product placement! What's the harm?
Every agent on the field is on the case. They will solve it-- Hellboy signs a color photo of himself with a flourish.
There you go, pal. "To Jason, best wishes, Hellboy."
 How am I supposed to read that?
You don't like it?
 That turns up on e-Bay, I'm gonna find you, "Jason"...
Can you do anything about this... uh...  -double chin?
No, you're not being made up.
Why not?
They said, you're too normal. You don't need anything.
But- Believe me- I'm not normal at all...
Carribbean Blue, actually. CAMERA MOVES to the next makeup chair, where the very sexy Makeup Girl 3 gingerly touches Hellboy's chest.
Well, yeah. Each one tells a story- His grin fades as he sees Johann talking to Liz. He abruptly gets up and goes to them.
That about you, glass-man? A few squirts of Windex?
I'm not going on. And if I may- a word of
 -it's not a good idea to hint that you two have... a relationship.
Thanks a bunch. I'll decide that.
You don't know how people may react.
It's a love story. They'll lap it up.
I know you don't like me, but trust me on this one.
Do as you may- But know this- he wouldn't have approved of your behaviour. A P.A. opens the door.
You're on-!
I'll be watching from the truck lab, where I belong- Go, enjoy your fifteen minutes... He walks away.
Hooy na ny! The lights are in reality, the eyes of a giant dragon and it roars into the platfrom, demolishing pillars, crushing people and eating the puppeteer in a matter of second. Pandemonium ensues.
But Johann and the other agents are too absorbed watching the Leno show on the bank of monitors.
Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we saw some extraordinary things on TV. And tonight you're in for more.
Please extend a warm, warm welcome to Hellboy, Liz Sherman, Abe Sapien, and Special Agent Tom Manning. Uproarious applause as the BPRD team comes out and make their way to the couch.
Wow, So - He's pointing at Manning.
.what planet are you from?
Washington, D.C., Jay. It's hot and inhospitable to human life.
Funny.  Why are you just "Liz" and not Fire Girl?
I was born in Milwaukee, so it was just plain old Liz ever since first grade.
Hey, we do call her Sparky now and then. A chuckle from the crowd. Hellboy smiles in satisfaction.
 And you, Abe. Is it uncomfortable at night with that toilet seat around your neck? The Princess smiles as the camera singles out Abe for a closeup.
Actually, Mr. Leno, my lungs are more like gills. I need to convert the air's nitrogen into oxygen, otherwise I'd suffocate in five minutes.
So, Hellboy: what's your favorite food? Devil's food cake? Do you have a last name? More laughter at HB. Liz mortified. She touches HB's hand to restrain him. Cameras zoom in on this.
Whoa. What's that- Are you two an item?
Uh... I-
 Care to comment on that? Sounds like you're contemplating marriage!
 You know, Jay, we are- together. We are. Rumble of consternation from the audience.
Uh oh. Manning, I think your polls just tanked. He turns to see the map- lit like a christmas tree.
Mein Gott-
Folks, this is modern America. A guy in Rhode Island married his motorcycle! What's a little inter-species romance in this day and age?
Scattered BOOING from the back row. Jay turns back to
Okay, here's what we've really been wondering: Is he just like every guy? In every respect? I mean, he looks like a guy...
As a matter of fact, Jay- Before she can finish, the production assistant runs out and hands a NOTE to Leno, who scans it and grows serious:
We we're getting pre-empted, ladies and gentlemen. Please, bare with us. We'll be right back- CAMERA PUSHES IN on one of the MONITORS:
This is a news alert. Tokyo is under assault - repeat - this city has been attacked. Monstrous beings, defying description, have waded into the Ginza- The jumpy, handheld images are full of digital interference. The spectral BEASTS drag down power lines and hurl cars.
- where police are helpless and hospitals overwhelmed. One moment, please. Moscow... come in, Moscow...
This is CNN in Moscow, where a Dragon has laid claim to Red Square. Yes- a DRAGON.
Oh, my God... CAMERA goes down, then the picture winks out. Black screen. The HISS of static... PAN off the monitor to Jay Leno, who sits in stunned silence, like everyone else. Finally, he looks over at Hellboy.
Friends of yours?
Then, may I ask what you're doing here? Shouldn't you be out protecting humanity instead of hooking up with our women? At last, Hellboy explodes. Bellowing, he rips up the desk and throws it through the backdrop!
Shhh, it's all right - BOOM-! A jolt shakes the room. A-moment later, a wall collapses as warty, heavily muscled ARMS and FINGERS tear at the masonry! in seconds, a squad of TROLLS pulls itself into view! WINK leers at the Princess. From her waistband, she produces a long, thin DAGGER and wields it timidly. Somewhere in the building, ALARMS start clanging. The Yrdrig shakes himself into action and springs. With a SNARL, it attaches its several jaws onto the nearest trolls. As the fighting creatures crash into the spiral staircase, the Princess hears a familiar voice:
Hold. The Prince steps into the room, carrying a long spear. The trolls are on top of the Yrdrig, ready to kill him.
Come-! The trolls release the Yrdrig and bound over to the Prince. The last troll, however, grabs the Yrdrig by the neck and brutally twists -! The animal's three mouths yelp and cough, fighting for air. - the It thrashes pathetically until, suddenly, it's over beast is dead.
No!
Where is your sense of shame? You mingle with... the liars?
What in God's name- ? Hellboy, Abe, Liz and Johann race past him, disappearing into the building. The alarm bells are deafening.
Princess! Without thinking, he darts forward. Instantly, one of the trolls swipes at him, its claws just missing his chest-
Abe! No, get back!! Abe regains his balance and tries again, his eyes glued to the desperate features of the beautiful young woman. Hellboy manages to restrain him.
Mr. Sapien, don't! He'll kill you!
I'll kill you all, if that's what you want.
No. Why don't you just start with me? Hellboy strolls up to the Prince.
You challenge-me?
You bet your ass I do-
Your weapon of choice?
 Five-fingered Mary. In the background, Manning arrives, wide-eyed. Just in time to see the Prince hand off his captive to one of the trolls. He drops back, flips his spear to horizontal and waits for Hellboy's attack.
Hellboy feints left, goes right and whips around, swinging his tail at the Prince. The Prince leaps and jabs with the spear, poking a hole in Hellboy's coat. The surrounding crowd backs away as the combatants circle each other. The Prince is nimble. The Prince is quick. He thrusts the spear again and again, driving Hellboy into a display case full of antique weapons. The glass breaks and a number of swords and axes fall to the floor.
 Arm yourself! Use the flail!.
Not my style. Watch and learn, fish bowl. He punches the Prince, hard. The blow knocks the Prince to his knees; as he rises, Hellboy connects with a brutal combination. In the arms of the troll, the Princess' head rockets back and forth, as if struck. A moan of pain escapes from her lips.
 H.B., no! Stop - you mustn't harm him! As the Prince totters, Hellboy turns to look at Abe, momentarily distracted- Then-
 If you want to see her again, you'll give me what's rightfully mine. Many people died for that crown. Bring it to me. He and his trolls escape into the night.
Liz is near panic.
Abe, stop studying! Pull the friggin' thing out, why don't you?
Liz, I'm sorry. It's a magical alloy. Every time I touch it, it moves closer to his heart.
No! I don't want to see it!  We've got to do something!
I cannot reverse the magic- we have to look for the Prince or somebody that can help Red.
Go after that son-of-a-bitch and get him to reverse the spell!!
He'll demand the gold piece-
So? We find it! We give it to him-!! Manning exchanges a worried look with a couple of his agents in the b.g.
A lupgarou loose in Picadilly, a Winged creature nesting in a skyscraper- We have a situation in almost every point of the map. Johann looks back at a map with LED indicators signaling each crisis in the globe. They keep turning on a dozen a second.
The Rebellion's spreading too fast- The only way to stop it is to stop the Prince.
Any luck? Liz has come in behind him. Abe quickly palms the precious thing in his webbed hand.
No. Sorry.
It doesn't matter.
No -?
No. Forget the gold piece. Let's us just find this royal asshole.
Abe, let's do this for Red! Abe nods, unable to find a good answer. He manages to tuck the gold piece into his belt.
The map contained within the cylinder seems useless-
Renvyle it is- Both the Princess and her brother were born there. They hold it sacred.
Even if you're right, we sit tight and locate the gold piece, make sure he never ever gets his hands on it. If there's any truth to this legend, the fate of the world depends on it.
What about Red?? Don't you care about him??? A moment of silence. Nobody knows what to say. Finally:
Liz. That may be his destiny. Manning is right: we can't take the chance. Liz glares at him.
I see. Red was right about you. Welcome to the team, Johann. And goodbye. She leaves the room.
Don't worry, Sparky- It's all going to be
Abe stands nearby, in silence. Liz looks at him, teary-eyed.
We'll make it alright. Screw Manning- You are right, Liz- We should just do this together: the three of us. Liz smiles.
Engine, starting- refer to NA-7488-BD... Liz climbs in behind him.
We stay here much longer, we're gonna get caught...
Just a few more minutes. Here's an easy way to remember that "port" means "left." They each have four- A NOISE from the door: it's Johann.
Good evening, friends.
Don't try to stop us, Johann.
On the contrary. I've been giving it some thought, and we should be able to save Hellboy. After all, the Prince lacks the gold crown. Without it, his army poses no threat. None at all. Abe is very quiet.
 Its useless- I- I- can't- I can't pilot this thing... Johann sits down in the co-pilot seat and melds with the controls...
I'll give it a try- Abe smiles at the sound of the engines starting up.
Sir - you'd better come, fast -
Got it - ow! He burns his fingers on the coffee as he hurries after the agents.
Not ALL of them, it's not possible!
Isn't that Johann at the controls?
Maybe this will help you remember who we are, who you are... What our destiny is- The Prince pushes his sister through a low doorway, out onto
They - they - will be mine to command, whether you like it or not. Only after our victory will you appreciate my sacrifice... and yours.
 Where are we, Liz..?
Near the ocean, Red.We'regonna make you well here.
This should be the portal. By all rights- Johann reaches the tree and inspects it carefully.
Abe, bring the mapcase over here. He's found a roundish SLOT in the tree, where the lowest branch joins the trunk. Abe slips the map back into its crystal cylinder and holds it alongside: it looks to be a perfect fit.
Yes! Try it, Abe-
Before you do anything... remember what we're in for. A world unlike anything we've ever known. Dangerous, deceptive...
You're wasting time! Abe inserts and twists the cylinder. The tree comes to life, hauling its roots out of the ground, bending them into a swaying arch.
Dangerous, deceptive... and hard to leave. They walk under the tree roots, into...
 Renvyle is over there. They glance up and down the beach, looking for a boat. Hellboy blinks and sniffs the air. A GOBLIN speaks up from an outcropping of rocks in the shallows directly in front of them. By his side, sitting atop of a tree: A SATYR and a CROW observe the group.
I bid you welcome, strangers. Would you be seeking safe passage to Renvyle?
Yes! Can you help us?
I'm sure you can come to an understanding! The Goblin heaves on an oar and emerges from behind the rocks. He's standing in the stern of a sturdy little coracle. Its wooden hull is painted in Celtic patterns.
Room enough for all of you!  Even your weary friend.
What will it cost, boatman? The Goblin smiles, displaying a disconcerting row of triangular teeth.
Ah, next to nothing! Make me an offer. Abe, Johann and Liz confer among themselves:
How much?
He won't want money.
 I have a... belt!
Johann removes his equipment belt, dangling it in front the creature's bat-like face.
I have no use for such a thing. Liz shows him her binoculars.
Here... is a wonderful set of eyes, magic eyes that will bring the world-
I already have binoculars! No, I see something special. He points toward Hellboy's chest.
Under his bandage - ! Quick as a squirrel, the creature hops to Hellboy's side and brings out a KNIFE! SWISH! In one sweep of the blade, he reveals HB's terrible wound, and the speartip protruding from it.
That!  That - in exchange for your crossing!
Don't you touch it - ! She rushes to Hellboy's side, pushing the Goblin back, ready for a fight. The Goblin shrugs.
Is it so precious to you? Let me pull it out.
You mustn't. One touch can kill him. The Goblin's eyes grow wide with understanding.
Ah. I see. We must go to the Angel of
He'll know what to do.
The Goblin leads the way as Liz, Abe and Johann arrive and help Hellboy up.
Oh, my God. She knows - ?!
Yes, I say yes-! Abe and Johann exchange a silent, worried look.
And I'll deal with it when that time comes. Now save him. The creature cackles and then grips the spear tip with the tongs. A cry of pain from Hellboy as it withdraws the bloody point from his chest.
Our ferry captain - he wants his payment...
I almost lost you- Hellboy smiles and grabs her hand-
I thought you were mad at me.
Well, no one can stay mad forever.
I'm sorry for all the attention, I thought it would be good for us.
We're never going to make them all happy, Red. What we have is ours and no one
I can turn my back on the world. I don't care anymore I don't- as long as you stay with me- as long as you think I'm still a good man.
Yes you are. You are the best man I've ever met.
You still seem sad. Is there anything you want to tell me-??
Yes, there is-
Say it now, then. Whatever it is, I'm ready.
No- no- what are you talking about?? Before she can go on, Johann appears. He carries a poultice and fresh rags.
Abe and I have found the entrance to the Golden Army's resting place- Liz come with us-  You should stay behind and get some rest-
And call you in the morning, right?? Like Hell I will. I'm keeping an eye on you,
There. Abe points at the violent sea below-
The only way in- I'm afraid we'll have to jump in-  Can you make it-? Hellboy nods.
Strange. If this is the entrance-
I know- Why isn't there more security?? With a ROAR, WINK!!!!! - jumps out and throws a CHAIN around Bellboy's neck! The chain is connected to his IRON MACE which now dangles around Hellboy's neck. The two creatures battle each other fiercely. WINK's MACE destroys a nearby tree, like a wrecking ball and it connects twice with Hellboy's head. But Red gets the upper hand quickly, snapping the chain in two and twirling the mace like a boleador.
See?? It hurts!!! It hurts!!! Hellboy grips the chain, pulls the creature close, then, like a weightlifter, raises him high overhead. With a mighty GRUNT, Hellboy tosses him overboard. WINK hits the jagged rocks once- twice- thrice-
Ouch- ouch- ouch-  We better go swimming before any more ugly fellas show up- He stares down into the swirling waters and discreetly takes his hand to his bandaged side: He's bleeding. The wound has re-opened.
Red, are you-?
Don't say a word, Blue- Let's move on-
Johann plunges in from above, his body quickly tumbled by the rough seas. A moment later, Liz and Hellboy are in the water, too. Johann swims down, leading them into the darkness of the cave entrance.
Hang on, people. I'll be right back.
Johann dives down to find a rusting, iron LOCK six feet under the surface. He tries to turn the control wheel, but can't make it budge.
 Hold up. We need to rest.
Says who? I'm fine, I tell ya. He lurches forward, pushing past the others, fighting off his pain.
 This was a mistake. He's -
Mein Gott-- The stairs lead to-
CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal rank upon rank of GOLDEN SOLDIERS. Immobile. Silent. Waiting.
Hey, amigo. You got some gum? Two rows away, Johann examines the lethal weaponry that terminates the arms of each soldier.
Most ingenious. A versatile, highly mobile killing machine.
Make that machines, Johann. I see more than one. Hellboy taps on a soldier's mechanical chest, which booms faintly, sending ECHOES up into the dark cavern.
Wow. You hear that? Listen - He thumps it, harder. The mechanical thing rocks backwards...
Uh oh. CRASH!!! The thing falls onto the soldier behind it! Then,
Whoops. The sound dwindles, then builds again as ANOTHER LINE of falling soldiers bears down on them!! Liz screams and Hellboy pulls her aside. The soldiers crash past them until - - the din suddenly stops. The PRINCE stands revealed at the head of the column.
As a boy, they say I enjoyed toy soldiers. So do you, I see. He strolls past the mechanical figures, pausing to kick aside some of the weapons.
 You're bleeding. Most unfortunate. Hellboy wipes at his oozing chest wound.
Yeah. Now it's your turn.
Do you envy these contraptions? They never bleed. They feel nothing. Not even the zest of combat. The Prince circles them, keeping an eye on Johann.
These fighting men are the very model of patience... merely awaiting word from their lawful commander.
From his tunic, he brings forth two of the gold segments. he fits them together...
You have the remaining piece, I presume.
We do not -
You came here expecting what? Mercy?
The death you would unleash will never happen! What you need is far from here and will stay out of your reach forever.
Stop - I have it. Abe, dripping wet, stands there, the last gold segment in the palm of his hand.
Oh, my God. What has he done? Keeping his eyes on the Princess, Abe gives the gold piece to the Prince. Hellboy steps forward, feeling dizzy and betrayed.
Abe -
 You cannot fight him- not without hurting her...
I am Prince Nuada and I command my army to life once more. Does anyone dispute my right? With the deep sound of gears, ratchets and springs, the army comes to life. Up comes the lances and shields.
 Kill them. Abe is now aghast, seeing the Prince drag his sister back.
 That was your price!! A ransom, you said - paid in good faith!!
Abe old buddy. If we survive this, we need to talk. The Army swings into action, marching toward them. The four friends retreat, soon pressed against one of the walls.
He - he's a cad! Can you imagine, a highborn heir to the throne, last in a noble line of-
Not now, Abe, okay? The first phalanx of golden soldiers is upon them, their terrifying weapons slashing in unison. Hellboy brings out his huge gun and starts firing as Johann grabs a torch and swings it like a club. A couple of the mechanical soldiers go down, only to pop back onto their feet, new weapons blossoming on their arms.
Let me - Liz summons up a white-hot burst of electrical fire in each hand. With a yell, she unleashes a searing EXPLOSION at the oncoming fighters. The shock wave rolls through the enemy ranks, flattening scores of soldiers. For a moment, the BPRD team regains hope... but the endless lines of mechanicals keep coming, marching on and over their scorched comrades. Hellboy holsters the Samaritan and rushes forward, giving it his best. His wound is running with fresh blood. He punches a soldier, whose mace pounds repeatedly against his ravaged chest; as blood spatters his face, Hellboy groans and keeps fighting, to absolutely no effect. At length, the mechanical arms throw Hellboy against the wall, where he collapses, unable to carry on.
Invincibility!? So - the only one thing may stop them - Johann unzips his suit; with a HISSS, his ectoplasmic self flows out, into the body of the nearest mechanical soldier!
Ach. They are too many. Anyone have another idea? Hellboy grabs the nearest sword and hauls himself to his feet.
 Prince Nuada: I challenge your right to command this army! With a soft BOOM, the clockwork troops come to a halt! All the mechanical heads turn toward the Prince, who stands on a ledge with his sister.
 No= please- no- Hellboy moves away from him.
A challenge must be answered! Raise your sword!
A challenge from you? A nobody?? You are no one.
No!! He is Anung-un-Rma- son of the Fallen one- He has the right! Her eyes lock with Abe's: there's no other way. The Prince sees Hellboy coming and with a bitter smile picks up his sword.
Very well.  May his fate show you the cost of pride and blindness. As the hall rings with their first blows of their swords-
Hellboy's too weak- Summoning up his last ounce of strength, Hellboy manages to drive the Prince back into the center of the arena, where they fight under the inscrutable gaze of the golden army. Every time Hellboy gets a clean shot at the Prince, Abe looks at him, pleading, and HB has no choice but to keep parrying off his enemy. Hellboy's sword grows heavy in his hands; he stares at it in dismay as it trembles. His muscles can no longer respond. The Prince is ready to kill him.
 No!! NO! ! A sudden movement at the ledge, where the Princess steps forward and... Using her concealed DAGGER, she STABS HERSELF in the right arm!! In silent slow motion, she drops the dagger. Instantly, the Prince drops his arm... his hands come away red with blood. He looks over at his sister. They share a hard look of mutual understanding. Love and hatred. Hellboy raises, through supreme effort, bleeding. He quickly raises his sword. The fight resumes, but this time, HB has the advantage. He fights bravely and after parrying fiercely with the Prince, he disarms him and points his sword at his chest.
I- have- won-
No. You have not-
Abe hurries to the Princess. Takes her into his arms, blinking in despair. The pale young creature is now a ghostly white. She lifts her eyes to Abe's, caressing his thin, scaly face.
We'll find each other again, somewhere. And she dies in his arms. In the center of the arena:
 You... think you're any different from me? The humans - they will tire of you. They will disappoint you. And in the end, they will betray you. You... are living a lie. Your time will come again. May you make a better choice. Then, he, too, is dead. Both him and his sister turn to fine, pale dust. And the wind carries away the ashes from Abe's hands... Shaken, Hellboy lifts the crown from the Prince's head. Looks at it carefully, as if considering the possibilities. Suddenly, he rips it into pieces. As he crushes the first segement... . an entire division of the golden army collapses into a heap of scrap metal! Hellboy does the same with a second section of the crown and another massive division of the army tumbles into junk! HB is about the tear up the last segment of the crown, when it explodes in his hands! WHUMP! The last of the army disintegrates. Hellboy confronts the Prince's frightened troll guards:
 You - and your kind! Leave here. And stay in the shadows - where you belong. As the ogres slink back into the tunnels, Liz looks at Hellboy. He seems angry, stung by the Prince's last words.
Any last minute requests?
 Do it, please. I - I'm ready for the real world now. Johann turns the cylinder. The tree roots form their arch... and the BPRD team walks through.
I know, here to help. Well, I appreciate that Manning.
Yes, Mr. Manning. I want to thank you, too. For all you've done for us over the years. He gives his stuff to the astonished agent.
What? What, exactly is this?
 I quit. Hellboy glances at Abe, then hauls out the Samaritan and shrugs off his pack, too.
Come on. You're resigning?
Looks that way, doesn't it? Hellboy starts to leave, but spins around and takes his gun back.
I think I'll keep this. He finally meets Liz's gaze. She crosses to him and takes him by the arm. She walks off with Hellboy and Abe, clinging tightly to the big, red daemon.
Liz -- not you, too!?  They can't do this. Stop them, Johann-
Manning, you're an asshole.
What you said before - about us living
I mean it! `Course, I'm thinking USA... but, hey - you decide.
 Let's find a place in the country. Clean air - green hills - fresh milk from the farm.
Milk? Yech.
A yard... With lots of room to grow in.
 Grow? who gonna grow- ?
Our baby, that's who!
Our b-? On Hellboy's immense grin: FREEZE FRAME. Roll CREDITS. At the end of the credits-
