Okay. Cubic root of nine thousand two hundred and sixty one.
Twenty one. Why do we have to do this now Kirsty?
Shut up and play darling. Your turn.
Five hundred ninety two thousand seven hundred and four.
Uh... eighty two?
Eighty four.
You win! Okay pull over.
 But... I thought...
 If what I've heard is true this could be the last time for a long long time. Besides we've got a whole seven minutes before the next one. Clock's ticking. Tick-tock...
 PULL OVER NOW.
 Honey what's wrong?
What isn't wrong? Why are you doing this anyway?
 I'm... I'm doing a very special thing here. And you can't even ... respond?
Sorry honey the present situation isn't exactly fodder for an erection. Shouldn't we be getting to the hospital?
I was going to keep breathing you know. You think I'm an amateur or something?
Just concentrate on the task at hand please. Listen to me. You should be giving ME this lecture.
You've been cheating on me haven't you?
Yes I had a quickie with the neighbor during your last contraction.
Roughly two thirds of married men who cheat start during the eighth month of their wives' first pregnancy.
I would never cheat on you. Not while you're pregnant now you know that.
 Okay... uh oh here comes another one.
Share the pain Kirsty.
One fifteen.
 Oh God...... Trevor, I think my water just broke.
Oh my God. It's coming out.
What?
THE BABY IS COMING OUT! I CAN FEEL IT! SONOFABITCH IT HURTS!! AAAGGGGHHH!!!
Okay Kirsty don't panic. Just keep breathing! DON'T PANIC! Put the seat back and hold on to something. Were almost there!
OH MY GOD TREVOR! It hurts!! (breathing heavily) oh my God, Oh my God. Trevor, It's coming out.
This isn't happening.
Honey, take it easy.    Your gonna be alright.
Kristy! Take it easy. everythings gonna be alright. Com'on, start the breathing, with me... come on. One, two-three, and blow..
Krist.   Honey. Kristy!
Kristy! Honey wake up!
Honey, wake up. Please wake up.
Kristy! Kristy!
Oh my God, Kristy! Please Kristy. I'm so sorry, Kristy.
Where is she...? Where's Kirsty?
Hey, what are you-
What are you people doing?!
What's happening to-!
As you can see I just accessed the speech center, temporarily shutting down all verbal ability.
The goal is find the exact point in the brain where moral decisions are made, the place where right and wrong is distinguished. In exploring this Morality Center I will most likely be triggering memories, disrupting the unconscious. Our patient may experience some distress during the proceedings but they are not due to pain. It is merely our patient- recalling his past...
As he was thrown into the lake, where the beast and the false prophet had been thrown.
Where you will be tormented day and night for ever and ever.
Well? What do say Trevor? Que pasa?
Where do I start?
How's the old noggin? Any change in the intensity?
Can you describe the pains?
I'm not sure. How about a jackhammer in the Occipital lobe?
Are you a dream too?
Still hallucinating as well. Hmm...
What just happened to me anyway? It looked like a dream but it felt like reality.
It's the morphine Trevor. You're on so much of it, you could be asleep and dreaming even with your eyes wide open.
Where's Kirsty? Where's my wife?
 Your wife...?
 Still a little hazy. He's still in pain too, even after the morphine. I recommend we admit him. At least for another day...  He just asked for his wife...
Well I can't find any abnormalities. I think we're ready for discharge.
But, Dr. Ambrose-
 I think it's time to ween you off these painkillers too. Wouldn't want you to develop a dependency to them. You might do things like come to the hospital for no reason other than to get a fix, wouldn't you?
Well looks like you're going home! Hope you brought your bus pass.
Do you kids mind keeping it down?
Aww let them be. They're only kids.
Trevor what is the metric probability of you getting any work done at all today?
Hey Bret. Christ, my head feels like a split coconut.
Dude there is a track on the carpet between here and the bathroom. It was made by your ass. You've been dragging it all fucking week. What happened to you yesterday?
You never came back after lunch. Did you get a piece o'ass, you bastard?
Give me a break. I checked back into the hospital- amongst other things.
Hospital? You haven't been to the hospital since uh...
Since what?
 Look never mind. Just get some numbers going- any numbers at all will due. The hills have eyes remember?
I'm just looking out for ya.
Sixty five point three percent of all headaches are due to low sugar levels in the bloodstream Trevor.
It's too late.
SNAP OUT OF IT!
Jesus what the hell was that? It's like you saw a ghost or something.
 Come on speak up, Gooding, I'm trying to run a business here. I can't have people flipping out in the break room when they should be slaving away at their desks.
Sorry I just kind of... spaced for a second there.
Well don't let it happen again. Or I may have to spank you.
Get back here, junior bean counter. This is your supervisor speaking.
Please, Gwen. You're- you're all over me.
How do you think you got this job, cock?  Mmm. I'm still tingling all over from our little midnight swim.
What's wrong, Trev?
Nothing, look. Gwen I really like you-
And it shows. Least it did last night at the quarry. In a big way.
Please you're going way too fast for me here.
YOU'RE giving ME a speeding ticket? Mr. Mario Andretti himself?
Gwen, my wife's dead.
Oh I see. That again. Trevor? I realize it must be hard. But Christ how long does it take someone to move on?
That was cold...
No, making another woman compete with someone who's been dead eight months. That's cold.
Yeah, Trevor thats it. Thats it.
I'm sorry Gwen. I don't know what's happening to me.  I think it's the painkillers, really.
They mess with my head. Yesterday gets blacked out and a memory from months ago is played out in vivid technicolor. Like the accident just happened you know?
Why don't you let me take you out tonight? I promise to make it the most memorable night of your life.
Pick you up round seven. And Gooding? Get some fucking work done.
 You got Trevor.
 Trevor hi this is Detective Lange from homicide. It's about your wife.
 Thanks for coming down Mr. Gooding. Has your head healed okay by now?
Where's my wife?
Okay then. Here's the scoop.
We still haven't been able to locate your the body in that river. And missing persons turned up some evidence that qualified the disappearance as foul play.
What evidence?
For one thing there were no skid marks on that bridge, the tires were all intact, from what we could tell, nothing wrong internally with the vehicle either. Like the car had been driven off the bridge intentionally.
It should all in the report. I told you guys everything. She was giving birth in the fucking car. She grabbed the wheel and I lost control.
I did read that, yes. (flipping through the report) What hospital were you going to? I mean the Lodovico Street Bridge isn't exactly on the way to Mercy General.
Listen we really are at a stalemate here until we find the body itself. Is there any way you did not tell missing persons everything that happened just before that accident?
Why wouldn't I tell you everything? Look, I've been fully cooperative...  ... to my recollection.
I'm sorry Mr. Gooding, I meant no disrespect. I'm just doing my job here, OK? I mean between your head injury and the fact that you are on very strong pain medication, you might not be remembering a few details about the crash which might help us here.
What you're recalling could be a fabrication you've made up about it. Do you follow?
Kirsty. Jesus, wake up!
Mr. Gooding? You still in there?
Uhh. Yes detective, sorry. Just trying to recollect, you know?
Okay. From what I remember now, maybe my wife was thrown from the car when it hit the water. Maybe she wasn't trapped inside.
That's a start. I'll tell the people trawling the river maybe it makes a difference maybe not. Thanks for your help Trevor. If we have any more questions you'll get a call from myself or my partner Detective Givens.
You guys know something I don't?
All things considered we probably know a lot less than you do. Have a good afternoon, Mr. Gooding.
summarily lifts her shirt to just below her breasts for Trevor.
Here it is, what do you think?
I saw it on the counter, looked at the name and the rest is history. It's like, named after me. Well...?
 Oh. Uh... it's beautiful. I'm sorry, I've just been having a weird day...
I totally understand. Listen I don't know if you're into incense but, I bought some, it's called Witching Hour. To inhale it is to love it. I mean the stuff'll clear your head big time. Come on over, I'll burn some for you. If you can't sleep tonight...
... knock on my door, I'm a total insomniac.
No, thanks I've got a... a date tonight-
-Tawny.
 Whew. You bounce right back don't you?
What do you mean?
Didn't your like... whole life get totalled last week?
Last week...
The car accident? Any of this ringing a bell?
It's not that kind of date.
Hey even if it is more power to ya.  Alrighty then. Have a good time.
Well Trevor. It's been one year. Three hundred sixty five days.
Eight thousand seven hundred sixty hours. Five hundred twenty five thousand...
How does feel to be Mr. Kirsty Hughes for a whole year.
In a word? Lucrative.
The best business decision if you ever made I'll bet.
Enjoyable too. The merger never even felt work for one second.
You know what the family lawyer told me one our wedding day?
What?
Never to put you in my will.
Really? Why?
Because you'd be staying with me for me and not because you'd get rich if I died for some reason.
But you had more wisdom than to listen to a false prophet
There is no wisdom, no insight, no plan 
And besides, I thought, to hell with it... it's okay if you only married me for my money.
Really, why's that?
I only married you for your body.
What are you doing?
Happy Anniversary, Mrs. Gooding.
For me? Trevor! How romantic! Come here, you.
Hello? Who's out there?
Sorry I'm late dear.
Gwen you scared the living shit out of me.
You are turning into an old fuddy duddy. Shoe.
Come on don't make me beat you.
Other shoe.
Good boy.  Where's is it?
What?
Our little toy. You usually have it up and running by now.
Do I really want to know what you're talking about?
You're kidding me.
I'm sorry Gwen. I just can't.
You have definitely got a screw loose, Trevor. Goodbye.
What the hell?
There's one thing I should have told you right from the beginning Trevor.
I like it pretty rough.
No!
Sorry I thought you were going to stay under longer.
What's happening to me? What are you doing?
You came in for your EEG. You fell asleep and well, I took the liberty of...I'm sorry. You looked like a wreck Trevor.
I just had the most vivid dream. I was sure I was dying.
Well you can relax now you are quite alive. And as long as you're awake, chin up.
Well? What do you say Trevor? Que pasa?
 Let me see. Oh yeah. My head feels like it's going through a meat grinder. I'm not sure if I'm dreaming or...
That `poor me' attitude doesn't suit you Trevor. Listen, I don't mean to sound like Pollyanna but things could be worse. There's one good thing about coming so near to the end of ones life. Everything is new and exciting, like your seeing it for the first time. You might see things a litlle differently from now on.
Your insight is enlightening.
No wisdom, no insight, no plan.
My wife said that exact same sentence to me the day we got married. She even winked too.
Do you use this wife thing to hit on all the interns?
 No... just you.
There. Just like a baby's butt.
Allison? Why can't remember what happened to my wife? Is it something I'm on that's... that's making me forget?
Easy there Trevor. You need to relax.
No I need to remember. Look whatever it is take me off it. I can handle pain. I can't handle not knowing...
You need to get better first Trevor. Way better.  It's okay to miss somebody. It's okay to still love someone after they're gone. But you've got to quit blaming yourself okay...? Okay?
Trevor?
CODE BLUE!
It's okay Trevor I'm coming for you.
Shit, I'm gonna be late!
Must be nice.
What?
Getting paid for doing shit.
Come on, Bret.
Seriously man, you oughta work for the government. You've got the sense of urgency for it.
Look, I'm doing my best considering okay?
Hey if the boss doesn't notice who cares right? Just slack all the live long day if you want.
The boss won't notice me doing a bad job because I'm not. Even if the boss thought I was slacking I'd know right away.
Yeah, how's that?
 I have my connections
Really? Do tell.
 Gwen.
GWEN?
I crap you not. She was all over me yesterday in the break room. And she was a total machine last night too.
You were supposed to have a date with Gwen last night? GWEN DEARDON? The supervisor?
Serious as a heart attack my friend. I think she literally fucked me brains out.
 Wow that's quite a feat Trevor congratulations. Must be really tough to get your brains fucked out by a CORPSE.
What are you talking about?
Me? This is your sick joke man. Gwen was murdered here six months ago. The security guard found her all over her office. Her head was in the waste paper basket. Her stomach was in the filing cabinet. Her ass was on the copy machine...
They never found the sicko who did it... remember?
 Jesus Christ...
Man are you ever out of the loop. Either that or you've got the worst sense of humor this side of Jeffrey Dahmer. What is your problem anyway?
Honestly Bret? I think I lost my mind. And now I'm finding pieces of it, like pieces of a wrecked car, scattered on the side of the road.
Bud you need to decompress. I told you you came back to work too soon after the accident.
Hey you know what Trev? I'm going to hook you up man. Here...
This woman will take one look at you and know exactly what you need.
These headaches you've been getting. Do they happen in conjunction with the hallucinations?
 Yes, sort of.  
TREVOR My head's been in constant pain since the... accident. And the pain increases whenever I, uh... slip into another, I don't know what to call them...
Dreams?
I was going to say dimensions. But I guess technically they are dreams.
You should always listen to your subconscious. It's trying to tell you something about your waking life.
But I never feel like I'm sleeping. It's sort of, waking narcolepsy. I'll be somewhere and then-  -it's like I was never wherever I was to begin with I was really somewhere else entirely.
Ok, whatever that was...do it again. That just set me free of the worlds longest head ache. Is this making any sense?
None whatsoever. Now just relax. Let the needles do the driving.
 Don't go anywhere. I'll be right back.
I'm thinking this might just be what I needed.
No matter what happens just remember...
We're all here for you Trevor.
Shh. It's okay. Go back to sleep.
I know. Divorce isn't good enough. Abandonment isn't good enough. There's only one way to do it and do it cleanly, without leaving a trace of evidence.
Open this and your problem will disappear forever. And no one will ever suspect you. A word of caution though. A certain side effect of the box. Pleasure. Pleasures that would redefine the parameters of sensation.
Once the cube is opened there is no turning back. Ever.
Afternoon doll-face. Hey, a police detective was just here to see you.  Some guy named Givens.
Uh thanks this looks a little important. Could you let the folks upstairs know I'll be late?
For you bubbalicious?  I'd lay across a bed of nails.
You know it girl. That ass is a three- hummer baby. Mmm-mmm-mmm.
I'm sorry. I still... I don't understand how this is a homicide case. I mean nobody was murdered here... Her body's been missing for I don't know how long now and...
What did you just say?
I said she's been missing for-
No. No you said HER BODY's been missing.
What's the difference?
Last time anybody saw this woman she was alive. You seem to certain she's dead.
 I saw her drowning inside the car, detective.
I read up on you, man. You're a smart guy aren't you? I mean with numbers. Right?
You could say that.
Zero's a number right?
As in one minus one equals zero yes. Where are you going with this?
How many zeros was your wife worth?
I need to talk to my attorney. Now.
 Yes I need LARRY ELLIS' office please.
 Yeah this is Trevor Gooding I need to speak with Larry... Trevor...? Kirsty Gooding's husband...?  I see do you know when he'll be out that meeting? Fine I'll uh... call back then... Okay you give him the message and he'll call me that's great.
I don't know what pissed you off but it's nice to see you getting the job done for a change.
I'M SAVED! MY HERO!
 -at the dawning of the agrarian age goat's milk would be considered a suitable substitute for a mother's breast milk. And the sacrifice of a goat would appease an angry god and ensure a bountiful harvest. But in time the ritual would become associated with less hallowed purposes.
Goat's blood is said to hold supernatural properties linked to black magic. 
ANNNOUNCER'S VOICE In conjunction with the pentangle- the five pointed star- the spilling of goat's blood is considered to be either an aphrodisiac that can be used in demonic orgies, or a means by which a high priest may summon Satan himself.
 The Book of Revelations speaks of the anti-Christ as the beast with many eyes. For centuries illustrators have chosen a goat to represent this beast.
Hey. Can I borrow something?
Uh... sure, Tawny... what?
You.
Tawny? What's- what are you doing?
YOU!
You okay?
I'm, uh, not sure... Feeling kind of weird actually.
Really?
I'm kinda feeling nuts myself!
I've never said this to a woman before but can't we talk a little bit before grabbing at each other?
 God. Sometimes you can be such an animal. Other times you are the ultimate tease...
Taste this.
Wow. That's good. Lots of capers, huh?
For starters. It's also got fennel, asparagus, olives, some more of mother nature's aphrodisiacs... Back in college, me and my roommates used to call it hard- on stew.
Not a very appetizing name.
Have some more.
If you ever smelled this coming from our dorm room, you knew one of us was in there getting laid.
You must have been very proud of yourselves...
It's getting hot in here.
Jesus... who did that to you?
You're kidding right?
You did! God, you are funny tonight.
Almost like I'm with somebody else.
Tawny I think I'm going to be sick.
Well now there's a compliment.
Sorry about that. There was a blockage in your oxygen hose. Won't happen again, promise.
I'm certainly keeping you busy huh?
 Too bad I hate my job...
Feeling better now?
These hallucinations I'm having. I think they're more like memories coming back to me in a strange way.
Well that's not necessarily a bad thing is it?
If they're blocked memories... I'm starting to realize the reason why I blocked them out. Allison I think I really... screwed everything up.
Shh. Don't blame yourself Trevor. Please.
I miss her. I miss my wife.
If you need to cry, go ahead. I won't tell.
 This is Lange. We need to talk as soon as possible. It's about your little... dilemma. Give me a call.
Can I help you?
Tawny... I- you're-
Whoa, I have serious space issues, dude. What do you want?
I... think we need to talk, there's something really strange going on...
 Hey you're the guy from down the hall.
Come on, quit fucking around. Listen it's about... what we did together last night.
 WHAT?!
Who the fuck is that?
It's that guy from down the hall. He thinks we did something with him last night.
Who's- who's in there with you...?
Are you cracking up or something?
What can we do for you, chief?
I... who are you?
You know Tawny, you better know me, pal.
Okay. I don't want any trouble. I was mistaken... I'll see you later.
Much.
City police main switchboard how may I direct your call?
You already asked me that ten minutes ago just before you put me on hold. I'm looking for defective- I mean Detective Lange.
Oh he and his partner just stepped out to lunch, can I-?
Just open the doors I'll jump off.
Not while the bus is moving, sir.
Where's my wife Detective Lange? What the hell did you do with her?!
Mr. Gooding I assure you we are doing everything within our-
Why did you leave me that message?
I don't know what you're talking about.
LIAR!
 Basically they know where your wife's body is and they're not telling you as a tactic to get you to confess? Yet neither of them has come out and told you that you're a suspect. Is that what you're trying to say?
Look Larry I know you never thought too much of me. And I know this all sounds a little fucked up.
A little? Try unbelievably.
I swear these guys are like playing mindgames with me. I think they got a hold of my e-mail address at work too.
Trevor barring the more outrageous aspects of your claim you are not the only widower the police have questioned when foul play is suspected.
Hey ninety five point three percent of all murders are committed by either a spouse, a direct relative or a close friend that's common knowledge. But this wasn't murder it was an accident-
 And as far as hiding a body goes? I find it hard to believe even the dirtiest of cops would keep a victim's remains hidden simply to get someone to confess. It's absolutely preposterous. Now I'm not saying I don't believe you, I'm....ambiguous. There's quite alot of money behind all this.
How much do I stand to inherit if Kirsty is presumed dead?
Rosie can you bring in the Gooding papers?
 Right away Mr. Ellis.
Uh. Ballpark would be fine Larry.
In the vicinity of eight million four hundred fifty thousand. Or is it sixty-
What happens if I'm convicted of Kirsty's murder?
Well they'd have to prove it in a court of law for one thing-
Please Larry. Pretend you like me and humor me.
Seeing you were her sole benefactor, and I'm the executive of the will, Kirsty's entire estate would have to be donated to the city.
Hello? City? Cops? It's a fucking conspiracy!
Pardon my glibness Trevor but you sound like a raving lunatic. The next time you seek counsel it should be of the psychiatric type. You're obviously on the verge of some nervous collapse.
Thanks for your concern Larry. And fuck you too.
 I never thought your late wife was the sharpest knife in the drawer. But marrying you was the dumbest thing she ever did!
You can go. I'm going to be here a while.
Jesus I wish you would stop doing that.
Allison...
Well Trevor? What have you got to say for yourself? Que pasa?
 Allison we have GOT to talk about this medication you've got me on.
I'm all over it.
Blink.
Okay. What we're going to do is up the Topomax to two per day instead of one, see if that takes care of these hallucinatory seizures you've been having. The extra Topomax won't interfere with the painkillers either but... You're going to be thrilled to hear this part but we have been told by some patients it affects the memory somewhat...
 Really? Does it affect the memory?
You're one tough cookie, Trevor Gooding. You keep coming back to your corner for a quick fix up then go right back out into the ring for another round.
Some call it resilience. Others, stupidity.
Everything okay Allison?
 Of course, yes.
The way you just looked at me...
I know, my bedside manner's horrendous.
So, I'm done. Thats it for today?
All finished.
How bout some lunch?
Think about it. In the entire world where's the most life-threatening place you could possibly be at any given moment.
I don't know... Beirut? New Orleans?
Hint. It's not a geographical location.
I'm stumped.
It's inside a moving car.
Bull...
I've got numbers to back me up. Over the course of one year more Americans die in car accidents than did during the entire span of World War II.
Okay so... what's the safest place?
Statistically speaking? Inside a moving bus.
Millions of people around the world get on busses every day. When was the last time you heard of anybody anywhere dying on a public transit bus?
Okay Mr. Statistics I've got one for you. What's the most common cause of death for adults over the age of eighteen?
Please. Heart attack. That was easy street.
Second most common?
Skin cancer.
Eighty third most common.
Pitbull attacks.
You just made that up.
Like you're gonna check.
Where you two happy together?
We startred off to be. She was, I guess I was. I just sort of....butchered up the relationship somehow.  Bad choice of words.
I understand, I think. Other women?
Yeah. It's like I was a different guy then I am today. I can't remember that guy. I see these women, they think I'm someone else, and I'm not that guy anymore. I'm not sure who Kristy knew.
You were unfaithful, it sounds like your confessing.
I did more then that.
Com'on.   How bout some fresh air?
Lucky for us these chairs happened to be here.
Oh I knew about the chairs already. This is where the emphysema patients come to sneak cigarettes.
Don't tell me. Kirsty used to smoke?
No. She just would have loved it up here... Allison when I was under... did I ever talk?
Sure plenty of times.
Was there anything I said that made you stop and wonder, you know, "where did that come from?"
Sure plenty of times.
Well?
Trevor if someone is talking from a sleep state they are obviously dreaming. So practically everything say is going to sound strange.
Did I ever talk about the accident?
No.
Did I ever talk about Kirsty?
No. But at one point you did repeat something though. A phrase. You must have been having this recurring dream, you just kept saying this one thing over and over
What was it?
You said, "Jealousy arouses a husbands fury, and he will show no mercy when he takes revenge."  Does that mean anything to you Trevor?
It means I have alot more questions.
Times up for today. I've got to get back.
Sorry.
If it makes you feel better that took every ounce of self control I had. Trevor, I never date patients.
I understand... I won't-
No you don't understand. That's why I've been fighting to get you better. So you wouldn't be a patient anymore.
Why didn't you tell me sooner? I would have switched doctors!
Just get better okay?
I have to get back to work. And so do you.
Don't say a word, Bret.
 Guess I'll leave you two alone.
 Nice chatting with ya.
Sorry I'm in your seat aren't I?
No please make yourself at home.
How's everything, Mr. Gooding?
Can't we dispense with the games for once?
I thought you loved games.
I'll just stay out of this conversation until you come out and tell me why you've disrupted me at work.
You and your wife were playing a game shortly before you got into that car accident weren't you?
Where is she? Where is my wife?
We found this curious little object not too far from the site of the accident. No prints but forensics scraped a little dark residue that was caked on one of the corners. It was blood Trevor. Matched some blood we took off your car seat too. Can you tell me anything about it?
 It looks familiar. I think it was in the car...
Gee you think so?
Sorry to take up your time like that Trevor. Don't work too hard. Oh, before I forget. I talked your neighbor out of pressing charges.
What?
The whackjob in the black lipstick who lives down the hall? She wanted you arrested for harassment. I told her to chill out and smoke a joint. I'd look the other way as long as she did you know?
Thanks.
We're all here for you Trevor.
 We're sorry the number you have has either been disconnected or no longer in service. If you feel you have reached this recording in error-
Frogurt guy's here. They're all out chocolate vanilla swirl or I'd have gotten you one.
I'm sure you would have.
Hey if you're not doing anything I'd like to buy you a beer after work. Be just like old times.
What's the occasion?
I quit. Today's my last day.
I've got a better offer. More time off. A sort of career shift, more in the engineering line of work.
How much time off?
As much as he feels like. Its a much more pleasurable line of work.
As much as he likes?
Yahtzee. Were all in this together Trev. Trevor there are people who are doing exactly what we're doing but they don't need to wear a tie, punch a clock or have some tight assed supervisor breathing down their necks. Its all about the pleasure Trevor!
So you're just packing it up just like that?
Almost that fast. I got a few loose ends to tie up first. Came into a shitload of money recently. I've always wanted to go to take a trip. We're just gonna walk into the airport and decide right then and there.
Yeah? You and who else?
Someone special.
Okay pull over.
 But... I thought...
 PULL OVER NOW.
Kristy noooo!
There is no reprieve for you. Not even in her. She's only a vision I'm afraid.
 Yes I'm trying to reach one of your interns... Allison Dormere...? She works in the emergency room there... What do you mean...? I just saw her today... Yes I'm sure she works there I've been in and out of that place five times in the last month...! Well good day to you too asshole!
No such listing...? Could you at least tell me IF she has an unlisted number...? What do you mean there are no Dormeres at all there have to be...! WELL LOOK AGAIN!  H-hello?
 Hello?
 Goodbye...
Kirsty?
You miserable sonofabitch!
Hello?
Sage it's me Trevor. You've got to help me.
The feeling is very distinct. It's like somebody stuck a shard of glass through my eye and it's embedded halfway into my brain.
Trevor your body has been completely healed. All the nerve endings have repaired themselves. If there is any pain in your head it's... in your head.
Jeez it's getting awful crowded in there.
You are physically better. It's your soul that still hurts.
My teacher told me once there's a puncture point on your body that can lock your soul within it, even after you're dead. So that when you die you're trapped inside your body, watching it corrode for all eternity.
Look, whatever your Marharagi, told you, forget. You've got to get this fuckin pain to stop.
It was an analogy. Your soul is locked up inside you. You need to free it Trevor. You've blocked it from the healing process. That's what we need to do now. Heal your soul. And to do that I you have to give in utterly and without any hesitation or doubt. Do you know what I mean by giving in? It's about trust. Do you trust me implicitly?
I don't even know what's real and what isn't how can I trust anyone?
You can trust me. Your wife is dead and you need to move past that. And the only way to move past something completely is to go straight through it, not around it. Surrender yourself to your wife's death. Let it chew you up and spit you back out on the other side. It's the only way you can become whole again.
Are you ready?
I surrender...
Wait... what the hell is this...
 Surrender yourself... surrender yourself...
Kirsty... Kirsty?
It's okay it was just a nightmare that's all.
You're alive...
Yes. Now go back to sleep. You're driving the rest of the way to gramma's remember?
Trevor I've decided we have got to agree on a name before we reach my mother's. This poor kid's going to be starting preschool as student x if we don't make up our minds. So, I've been thinking, what about Daisy?
 It's perfect.
Well that was easy all of a sudden.
Kirsty... I'm glad you're alive.
Can you hear me? Just nod.
Do you know where you are?
Ambulance.
We're just gonna take some blood here.
You know what day it is?
Okay how many fingers am I holding up?
Two.
Can you follow them?
Perfect. Hey you remember what happened back there?
You mean... when the car went off the bridge?
 Wow you are out of it.  
PARAMEDIC No it was nothing that extreme. You were riding on the bus and just collapsed onto the floor. Out cold. Remember being on a bus now?
No... maybe... I don't know.
It's cool. Here we are.
Hello I'm Dr...
Ambrose. I know.
Have we met?
I've been in here before.
Take no offense Trevor. I see many patients a day and have an awful memory.
Join the club.
Right. Trevor you just had a seizure brought on by a severe migraine. Things could be much worse. In the next few days you need to take plenty of aspirin, stay out of the sun and make sure you've had at least eight glasses of water by the time you go to bed at night.
Why don't you relax for the next couple of hours? Barring any relapses you should be able to go home after that.
Where's Allison?
Who's Allison?
Allison Dormere. Your intern.
Uh we have no intern by that name here Mr. Gooding. Listen I'll be back in a few hours to check up on you meantime relax try not to move around too much.
There there Trevor. Get some sleep.
If you need anything give myself or any of the nurses a call okay? We're-
Don't tell me. We're all here for you Trevor' right? Go ahead say it! You know you want to!
What the hell are you talking about...?
Trevor! Mr. Gooding lay back down-
Hey!
 Okay ya caught me.
Least let me finish will ya? Got one puff left.
I don't work here.
Music to my ears.
Trevor. I heard you were looking for me. Is everything all right?
Allison! Am I glad to see you! No... everything's not right. Not at all.
Come here.
Allison I think I did some very, very bad things. I mean very bad.
Trevor things like this happen to people who experience temporary memory loss. Everybody does things they regret. You just couldn't remember doing these things and now you are so it's a shock to the system. I'm telling you. You will never get better if you keep blaming yourself for your wife's death.
Maybe I wasn't responsible for the car accident...
Hey buddy!
 ... but I'm starting to think I was... I was going to...
Hey buddy!
What do you want?!
 Who the hell are you talking to?
This is it mister.
Have a good night now.
I don't know what I'm doing here. I'm not even Catholic. I just had to tell somebody. It's like, ever since my wife died I don't know what I've actually done or what I've imagined. But I do know if one tenth of what's happening to me is reality... I've done some really awful things in my life. Things that I've... I guess I've blocked out...
What things do you think you've done?
Wow. Let's see. So many sins so little time. For starters I was responsible for the death my wife who by the way was carrying my unborn child. That was so I could collect her eight million dollar estate. I think I killed several women I was having mindless sex with behind her back.  
TREVOR But I did those murders just for the hell of it. Finally... I think I made some kind of deal with the devil and now he's come to collect my soul. Only he's decided to mess with my head first. How many Hail Marys do you recommend for that one father?
Trevor I'm sure you killed no one. You are very distraught over your wife's death and rightfully so. You did the right thing by confessing to me here tonight. And you should keep praying for the wisdom that will set your soul at ease. That being said, you are still in a highly emotional state right now. It might do you some good to get some professional help. Confess to them the way you confessed to me. In time you'll probably find that the real killer has already been caught. Or better yet... that these murders never happened at all.
But I saw these women. I saw their mutilated bodies. I saw their ghosts. I just know it happened I can feel it...
All you've got is the here and the now Trevor. That's all anyone really has. Maybe this will make things easier to understand. A man goes to sleep every night and has recurring dream that he's a butterfly. In time he begins to wonder if he might actually be a butterfly who dreams he's a man. And at the end of the day does it even matter? All these events you're describing. How can you be sure any of them really happened?
But that's what I need. To be sure... to be absolutely sure...
Shh. It's okay son. There is but one truth. One thing you can be absolutely sure of. And that thing is this:
WE'RE ALL HERE FOR YOU TREVOR.
Still in the dark I see?
Who are you?
Poor Trevor.
This game is over do you hear me?
I hear everything. And soon you will know everything. More than you ever wanted I can guarantee that. But I want you to think for a minute first. Think about all you've seen. All the clues you've been given.
WHO ARE YOU!
WHERE'S MY WIFE?!
WHERE'S MY WIFE!?
Bret... what the fuck...?
Tonight was supposed to be the night, Trevor. Remember? I couldn't believe you went through five dart games and didn't even joke about it.
Bret. What the hell is going on?
We were gonna be millionaires you said. Nobody'd suspect a thing. I had never even met her. No connection. Then you went and had that fucking car accident.
Bret you are making no sense whatsoever.
I followed her Trevor. I got to know her life. And what a boring one it was. Six a.m. gym, nine a.m. trendy coffee shop, noon bookstore, one soap operas, four o'clock news, five wait for Trevor to come home. And wait and wait and wait. Nine o'clock get ready for bed.  
BRET Ten o'clock fall asleep in front of the TV. She did that every day I followed her. Every single day. While you were out fucking your concubines. Every day I felt more and more bad for her, man. And hated you more and more.
Then I find out you're having nooners with my GWEN. That was all I could take. I didn't want to kill your wife anymore. I wanted to kill you. Even before that little accident I decided to do it on the day we'd set aside for her.
But now that ain't gonna happen either. I fell in love with Kirsty Trevor. The day she died it was like my soul had been ripped from my body. Not just because I lost someone I loved. It's because the child inside her... was mine.
No!
Okay Trevor. Put the knife down.
Full name?
Trevor Alan Gooding.
Age?
Thirty one.  
TREVOR Don't you guys ever take your sunglasses off?
I told you I don't know!
Wrong answer!
Single file.
We're all here for you Trevor.
NO TALKING!
Stop and face the mirror!
Thank you!
I hope they fry your ass mutherfucker!
 YOU'RE GONNA BURN IN HELL!!
Got quite a fan club don't you, hotshot?
For the last time. I honestly don't know how any of them died...
Now I want you to tell me what you remember happening- in your own words- exactly the way you told Detective Lange. But this time I want you to make one small adjustment.
What's that?
DON'T FUCKING LIE TO ME!
I did it. I killed them all. I confess.
 Quick detour through the morgue boys.
Morgue...?
That's right Trevor. The timing was impeccable wasn't it? It's been eight months two weeks and three days but we finally found the body. Just need you to ID it for us.
Where was it?
That's the weird part. It just magically turned up in the river less than thirty yards from where the car had landed. Like somebody put it there while we weren't looking.
Just keep walking Trevor. You can't miss it.
How is our little student doing? Has he learned his lesson yet?
I don't know who you are or what you want. I just want to know what's under that sheet...
Use your mind for something other than numbers dear Trevor. Think about people for a change. People other than yourself. Like the women you slept with behind your wife's back. You were always so confident you had covered your tracks. Always confident your wife actually believed your fervent denials? Part of you must have known she would find out.
Jealousy arouses a spouse's fury. And no mercy will be shown when that revenge is given.
Even a mind as narcissistic as yours must have wondered: What unspeakable acts was your wife committing behind YOUR back?
 Goodbye you miserable sonofabitch!
What's under that sheet...?
You probably don't remember the night we played. Your first year as husband and wife.
It must have seemed like we were uninvited guests crashing your little celebration.
But someone was expecting us Trevor. And everything went according to plan.
We were about to come for Kirsty. When we were offered a deal. We don't usually consider bargains but this one was too good to pass up. A tribute to the resourcefulness of a parent hellbent on protecting its spawn. The deal we were offered was this: three more souls in exchange for the life of the unborn child inside Kirsty. The three souls had already been picked out. Needless to say we were very impressed.
Two of your favorite companions, most supple and delicious as you already know. And the man you had at one time conspired to kill Kirsty with. Until you found out she was with child.
They were all real screamers too. We had a blast. And there was one more. You've seen many things you wished you hadn't. Many nightmares from which you never awoke. They were all clues in our little puzzle. Can you guess now Trevor? Can you guess the fifth soul chosen for us to torment in this little agreement?
WHAT'S UNDER THE SHEET?
 Welcome to the worst nightmare of them all, Trevor. Reality.
No... no...
Open this and your problem will disappear forever. And no one will ever suspect you.
Shhh it's okay.
NOOO!!
Yes. Yes that's him.
Well I guess that's it then. Thank you Mrs. Gooding I realize that must have been tough.
Alrighty. Let's get started folks.
Collecting 40ccs of serum...
Examining cranial fracture...
Checking oral cavity for blockage...
And we have a winner...
Looks like an eel of some kind.
Guess it was murder after all.
Yeah all we need is the eel's motive.
I still don't get it. He's been missing for almost eight months. But this body hasn't been dead more than twenty four hours.
Makes you wonder what he was up to between the time he disappeared and when he died.
Well? What do you say Trevor? Que pasa?
 Allison what on earth possesses you to converse with cadavers?
 It's simple, Dr. Ambrose. What if there is no afterlife? What happens when we die? Do we just stay stuck inside your bodies for eternity watching ourselves decompose?
I'm not following this...
Well if that's the case... wouldn't you want someone to talk to you like a normal human being one last time?
You two are creeping me out. And I'm a coroner.
Adios amigo.
I would have come in sooner but I had an important errand to run last night. Out of town. Figures you'd find his body the minute I decide to go off somewhere.
Well you made it down here that's the important part. Thank you for your patience Mrs. Gooding.
One last thing... When they found him he was holding something. Not to get too graphic but they had to wrench it from his hand.
Figured you might want it.
Of course. That was my... last anniversary present to him.
A token to remember him by now. Goodbye Mrs. Gooding.
Thank you detective.
Looking for someone, Kirsty?
 You bet I was.
 Okay we're on our way. Remember her-
Lactose intolerance. I've stocked the fridge with Lactaid.
See you in a couple of weeks. You've got my cell number right?
Daisy is getting so big.  I still can't believe HE was her father.
Counselor can we not mention HIM anymore. Can we just start spending HIS money instead.
I've always wanted to go to Madagascar.
You mean the place with bats?
They're called flying lemurs.
Yeah that sounds like a real blast...
I've been thinking about it. This has to have been the best eight months of my life.
TAXI!
You forgot something.
Oh. Thank you.
No Mrs. Gooding.
Thank YOU.
After you my dear.
 Airport please.
What's up?
Time, Larry. Time's up.
