I was...born in 1911...on Piedmont Plantation in Cherokee County. An UNSEEN WOMAN interviews Aibileen.
Did you know as a girl, growing up, that one day you'd be a maid?
Yes, ma'am. I did.
And you knew that because?
Momma was a maid. My grandmother was a house slave.
Oh. The woman repeats Aibileen's answer slowly as she writes.
A...House...Slave. Uh-huh. Okay. Aibileen squeezes the notebook in her lap.
Now, did you ever dream of being something else? Aibileen gulps. She doesn't answer. The room is quiet.
Well then, what's it feel like, to raise a white child when your own child's at home...being looked after by somebody else?
I done raised seventeen kids in my life. Lookin' after white babies, that's what I do.
I know how to get them babies asleep, stop cryin' and go in the toilet bowl before they mommas even get outta bed in the mornin.' Aibileen lifts Mae Mobley out of her crib and pulls her into her expansive bosom.
Babies like fat. They like big fat legs too. That I know. Aibileen sits with Mae Mobley in a rocking chair.
I work from eight to four, six days a week. Ninety-five cents an hour comes to a hundred seventy-two dollars ever month. I do all the cooking, cleaning, washing, ironing and grocery shopping, but mostly, I take care a baby girl...And law, I worry she gone be fat. Ain't gonna be no beauty queen either. Mae Mobley reaches up and touches Aibileen's face. Aibileen kisses her and whispers in her ear.
You is kind. You is smart. You is important. Mae Mobley's mother, ELIZABETH LEEFOLT, 21 and lanky, enters wearing a green dress very much under construction. Pins and double-stick tape hold it all together. Elizabeth has pointed features and a nest of teased, brittle hair.
Aibileen, bridge club's in an hour! Did you finish the chicken salad?
Oh, and Hilly's deviled eggs. No paprika! Elizabeth rotates around like the Tin Man.
Does this dress look homemade?
I reckon when you finish, it won't. Elizabeth exits with her pinned hemline sloping at a good twenty degree angle. Aibileen shakes her head.
Miss Leefolt still don't pick Baby Girl up but once a day. The birthin' blues had got holt a Miss Leefolt pretty hard. I done seen it happen plenty a times...once babies start havin' they own babies. And the young white ladies of Jackson...Oh, law, they was havin' some babies.
But, not Miss Skeeter... Skeeter has very frizzy blond hair cut short above her shoulders. She carries a red satchel.
No babies...No man...And not lookin'. She wears flats, careful not to add more than a centimeter to her towering height. Dressed well, Skeeter tugs on her unfamiliar attire.
Shut the Goddamn door! He snaps his fingers over a chair. Skeeter sits down.
They announced last week cigarettes'll kill you.
"Murrah High Editor, Ole Miss Rebel Rouser Editor, double major, Junior League editor...Damn girl, didn't you have any fun?
Is that...important? Mr. Blackly sighs, hands the resum back to Skeeter.
You got any references? Skeeter nods slowly. She takes a deep breath and pulls a letter out of her satchel. She hands it to Mr. Blackly. Mr. Blackly snatches the letter and reads it quickly, mouthing the words as he does. He drops the letter on his desk, and looks to Skeeter, flabbergasted.
That...is a rejection letter. Skeeter's face flushes hot and quick.
Not exactly. Missus Stein-
-STEIN?! Missus who? Skeeter points toward the letterhead.
Elaine Stein, Senior Editor at Harper and Row Publishing. In New York. I'm going to be a serious writer, Mr. Blackly. So, when I applied to Harper and Row, Missus
-She told you "no."
Until I gain some experience, Mr. Blackly! See, it says it right there at the end. "Great potential...Gain some experience and please apply again." Mr. Blackly pours the rest of the peanuts in his mouth.
Oh, Christ...I guess you'll do. Can you clean?
Clean? Mr. Blackly sees cigarette smoke bleeding under his door.
Clean! Mr. Blackly pulls up a box filled with letters and newspapers. He slams it down in front of Skeeter.
Miss Myrna's gone shit-house crazy on us, drunk hair spray or something. Read her past columns and all these letters. Answer them just like she did, nobody'll know the damn difference. Skeeter forces a smile.
You know who Miss Myrna is?
Articles? Ha! It's a cleaning advice column, Miss Phelan. Eight bucks a week. Copy due Thursday. Mr. Blackly picks up the phone and starts yelling at someone. Skeeter excitedly grabs the box of letters and leaves.
Miss Hilly was the first of the babies to have a baby. And it must a come out of her like the eleventh commandment. `Cause once Miss Hilly had a baby, ever girl at the bridge table wanted one too.
Minny! Go get Momma!
Missus Walters?! You need help coming down? MISSUS WALTERS, 60, passes quietly behind Minny.
I'm down! Minny jumps with a yelp, spins around.
Been down.
Gone give me a heart attack! Missus Walters ambles toward the closet door. Minny quickly tries to turn her toward the front door. Missus Walters resists.
Minny, I'm getting my coat. Missus Walters opens the closet.
It's ninety degrees out there, Missus Walters. Missus Walters pulls out a red, wool coat with cheetah print collar. The early stages of Alzheimer's have appeared, but Missus Walters is still quite proud at eighty percent capacity.
Once Missus Walters' arteries went hard, Miss Hilly moved her and Minny in with her. Fired the maid she had just to make room. See, Minny about the best cook in Mississippi, and Miss Hilly wanted her. Hilly's approach is marked by the whishing sound of her plaid, fat thighs.
Minny, William took Billy out for ice cream. So, hurry back and get Billy down for his nap. No dilly dallying.
Yes, ma'am. Minny raises the pie behind Hilly's beehive, dreaming of smashing it into her head.
Minny my best friend. A old lady like me lucky to have her.
No!
It's a tricky thing...you try to make a baby go in the toilet bowl before it's time. If theys can't get the hang of it, theys get to thinking low a theyselves. Mae Mobley sticks her lip out.
You drunk up two glasses a grape juice, I know you got to tee-tee.
Nooo. Mae Mobley shakes her head.
I give you a cookie if you go. Tee-tee immediately sprinkles into the bowl.
Mae Mobley! You going! Aibileen and Mae Mobley laugh excitedly as Elizabeth storms into the bathroom in her finished dress. The hemline now slants in the other direction.
Aibileen, the girls are pulling up, and the table isn't set!
Mae Mobley go, Momma!
Get in your room! Right now! Mae Mobley rises behind Aibileen's leg.
I sorry. Elizabeth reaches down and scoops up Mae Mobley like a sack of potatoes. Mae Mobley looks to Aibileen over her mother's shoulder, her eyes have welled up. Aibileen mouths "I love you" and blows her a kiss.
I lost my own boy, Treelore, right before I started waitin' on the Leefolts... Elizabeth glances anxiously to the dining table then catches eyes with Aibileen, nodding ever so slightly.
Aibileen carefully slides the platter over the L-SHAPED CRACK making sure it's hidden.
After Treelore died, a bitter seed was planted inside a me. And I just didn't feel so accepting anymore. Hilly enters the front door holding Missus Walters coat.
Hey, girls!
 Put Momma in a chair before she breaks a hip.
I'm not deaf yet, Hilly. Minny spies Aibileen in the corner and gives her a "here we go" look as she lowers Missus Walters into a chair. Hilly approaches Aibileen with the coat.
Aibileen, I want you to have this coat. It's too big for Momma now and it's way too expensive to put in the coat drive. Hilly extends the coat with a smile.
All yours. Aibileen takes the coat.
Thank you, Miss Hilly.
Go on. Try it on.
Aibileen rushes in behind her wearing the cheetah collared coat. The sleeves are about a foot too short.
Hold on! Those are Miss Hilly's. Aibileen pulls another plate of eggs out of the fridge.
Gots to have paprika on `em. Minny takes an egg. It disappears in a single bite.
Forgive me, Lord, but I'm gonna have to kill that woman.
Watch yo mouth, Minny.
Looks like a walking Christmas present with all them bows. Aibileen shakes with silent laughter.
And, now she gone to puttin' pencil marks on the toilet paper.
Oh, law! Did she?
Uh-hum. But, I carry paper in from my own damn house. That fool don't know.
Hey, girls.
Well, if it isn't Long-Haul- Skeeter. We didn't think you'd ever leave Ole Miss.
Well, it's supposed to take four years, Jolene. Skeeter spins around to Hilly and Elizabeth with a sigh.
Sorry I'm late. I had to stop by the cleaners and pick up my black dress. Hilly and Elizabeth look at Skeeter with concern.
What?
About supper club tonight...Honey, Stuart had to cancel.
Again? Hilly places her hand on Skeeter's shoulder.
He can't get off the rig, Skeeter. It's offshore! Stuart is a very successful oil man.
I'm starting to think this Stuart is a figment of your imagination.
Raleigh called his cousin down in Hattiesburg. He'll drive up.
The cousin with one eye?! Elizabeth nods.
I guess his black patch will match my dress. Just forget it. Skeeter storms off. Hilly glares at Elizabeth.
One eye?!
I got a job today... at The Jackson Journal! Everyone looks at Skeeter as if she just threw up on herself. Finally, Hilly pats Skeeter on the leg.
They'd be a fool not to hire you. Jolene raises her glass.
To Skeeter...and her job. Last stop `til marriage. Hilly kicks Jolene under the table.
The Miss Myrna column. Have y'all read it?
Well, no! But, I bet the poor girls without any help, in South Jackson, read it like the King James. Everyone laughs. Skeeter's forehead crinkles.
Elizabeth, would you mind if I talk to Aibileen? To help me answer some of the letters? Just until I get a knack for it. Aibileen clears dishes as if she hasn't heard a thing. Elizabeth gets very still.
Aibileen? My Aibileen? What can't you just get Constantine to help you? Skeeter looks to her lap and shakes her head.
Constantine...quit us.
What?! Oh, my gosh! Skeeter nods her head sadly.
I'm so sorry, Skeeter.
I really don't want to talk about it. Okay? The girls nod.
Anyway...I don't know how to answer these letters. Elizabeth looks to Aibileen.
Well...I mean as long as it doesn't interfere with her work. A phone rings. Elizabeth nods to Aibileen.
Leefolt residence.
Pink, fuzzy slippers anchoring bare, sexy legs stand on a black and white check floor.
Ah-hem. Hello, is Elizabeth in? Rising up a slim torso, sizeable cleavage bursts out of a pink robe's collar.
She having bridge club right now. May I take a message? CELIA FOOTE, 28, peroxide blonde, stands in all her country girl glory. She speaks with a thick, unrefined, Southern accent, mired in insecurity.
Please tell her Celia Foote called again. I'll call back tomorrow.
Yes, ma'am. Celia nervously twists herself around in the phone cord.
Ah-hem. Miss? "Miss" strikes Aibileen as very odd.
I'm looking for some help at my house. You know any maids looking?
No, ma'am.
Okay. Celia Foote. Emerson 6-8-4. Bye, now. Celia hands up the phone with a frown and sips from a coca- cola bottle.
Who was that on the phone?
Miss Celia Foote called again. Elizabeth leans over and touches Hilly's arm.
I've never called her back, Hilly.
She can't take a hint, can she?
Who's Celia Foote?
That tacky girl Johnny married.
Girl? I heard she's twenty-eight.
Oh my God!
Uh-hmm, worked concessions at a LSU game and sold him a hotdog. And, boy, he got a whole lot more. All the girls laugh.
Could have been you, Hilly.
And live thirty minutes outside of town? Anyway, I ran into her at the beauty parlor, and she had the nerve to ask if she could help with the children's benefit.
Aren't we taking non-members? The benefit's gotten so big.
Yes, but we're not telling her. Everyone laughs but Skeeter. Aibileen pours Skeeter a cup of coffee. Skeeter looks up decidedly and smiles.
Thank you, Aibileen. Hilly begins squirming in her seat, obviously making a point. Elizabeth leans over.
Oh, Hilly, I wish you'd just go use the bathroom.
Ah-hem. I'm fine. Missus Walters shouts out from the sofa.
She's upset cause the nigra uses the guest bath, and so do we. Elizabeth turns to Aibileen.
Aibileen, go check on Mae Mobley. Aibileen disappears. Elizabeth leans into Hilly.
Just go use mine and Raleigh's. Hilly hiss-whispers.
If Aibileen uses the guest bathroom, I'm sure she uses yours too.
Wouldn't you rather them take their business outside? Skeeter sees a reflection of Aibileen listening off of a picture in the hall. Skeeter tries to change the subject.
Did y'all see the cover of "Life" this week? Jackie's never looked
-Tell Raleigh every penny he spends on a colored's bathroom, he'll get back in spades when y'all sell. It's just plain dangerous. Everybody knows they carry different diseases than we do. I double. Elizabeth takes a puff of her cigarette and fidgets with her cards.
I can't ask Raleigh until tax season. But, it would be nice.
That's why I've drafted The Home Help Sanitation Initiative.
"The Home"...the what?!
As a disease preventative bill that requires every white home to have a separate bathroom for the colored help. I've even notified the Surgeon General of Mississippi. I'll pass. Skeeter again glances at Aibileen. Their eyes meet.
Maybe we ought to just build you a bathroom outside, Hilly. The room grows eerily quiet.
You ought not to joke about the colored situation. Hilly leans in toward Skeeter.
I'll do whatever it takes to protect our town. Your lead, Jolene. Jolene suddenly looks to a wall clock. She jumps up and throws her cards to the table.
I have to skedaddle! Gotta get over to the station!
Now, Miss Celia had her a man. `Bout the best lookin' man in all of Mississippi. But, no baby and no friends. JOHNNY FOOTE, 23, Celia's ridiculously handsome husband, sneaks up behind her as he removes his jacket and tie.
Roses look like weeds next to you. Celia turns with a yelp. She slaps him playfully.
Johnny, you scared the daylights out of me! Johnny begins kissing her neck.
You're home early. Celia pushes him back.
Johnny, I can't get any of your old friends from school to call me back.
Oh, who cares, honey. We got all we need right here. Johnny kisses her again and lowers her to the grass.
Johnny, honestly!
Doctor's orders. Johnny starts kissing Celia's breasts. She becomes uneasy and rolls out from under him.
I don't know what's taking us so long. I'm sorry. Johnny brushes hair from Celia's face.
Hey, we've never done it in the yard. Maybe that's the trick. Celia seductively bites her lower lip.
Watch my hair. Johnny's hand slides up her thigh.
Aibileen? Aibileen becomes nervous at the sight of Skeeter alone.
Yes, ma'am.
I had hoped to ask you myself if you could help me with the "Miss Myrna" letters...
Yes, ma'am.
So...Would you help me? Aibileen nods and looks out to Elizabeth on the street.
Miss Myrna gets it wrong lotta times. Be good to get it right.
Thank you, Aibileen. I plan on splitting the pay with you, too. Aibileen doesn't respond. She grabs a basket of rolls.
Listen...all that talk in there today. Hilly's talk I mean...I'm sorry you had to hear that. Aibileen quickly turns her back to Skeeter. A gospel choir begins singing on the radio.
Is that Preacher Green's sermon on the radio?
Yes, ma'am, it is.
That reminds me so much of my maid growing up. Aibileen starts wiping down a serving tray.
Constantine and me...were in church circle together.
She loved me like you love Mae Mobley.
Yes, ma'am. Skeeter moves closer to Aibileen.
Aibileen? How could she just quit like that? Aibileen stops wiping and looks up to Skeeter...
Quit?
Yes. When I got home from school last week, Momma said she had quit. Back in March to go live with her people up in Chicago. She didn't leave me a note or anything. Aibileen turns and resumes wiping the tray.
Could you do that to Mae Mobley? Aibileen slowly turns back to Skeeter.
No, ma'am. I couldn't...
Do you have an address for her or anything? Aibileen shrugs her shoulders, reeling it all back in. Just then, Elizabeth walks into the kitchen holding papers stapled together. She looks between Aibileen and Skeeter.
I'm sorry. Did I interrupt something? Skeeter and Aibileen shake their heads. Elizabeth hands Skeeter the papers. Home Help Sanitation Initiative is written on the cover.
Hilly wants this put in the League newsletter. Skeeter nods.
Aibileen, I'll drop by at ten tomorrow to get started on Miss Myrna. Elizabeth looks at Aibileen.
Tomorrow is silver polishing day, so y'all make it quick, okay?
I knew I had said too much to Miss Skeeter, but Constantine's story weren't mine to tell. Some things a girl shouldn't have to know about her own mother. Her frizzy hair swirls about as she passes a truck full of cotton.
Skeeter slowly turns down the old road.
An old black man with white hair, JAMESO, 70, tightens a porch swing.
Hey, Jameso.
Hello, Miss Eugenia.
Momma! If the Smithsonian had wished to assemble the perfect antebellum home, Skeeter would be standing in it.
Momma? Skeeter's mother, CHARLOTTE BOUDREAU CANTELLE PHELAN, 50, glides into the room wearing a wig. Her floral print dress has a gazillion perfectly pressed pleats. Charlotte turns to a mirror and adjusts an auburn-colored, `pixie' cut.
Is this a little too young?
It's a little too everything.
Much better.
Your daddy bought me this dress in
Mom, I want to ask you about
-Right after Ole Miss won the Sugar Bowl. Charlotte unzips the dress and takes it off.
Come on, you try it on.
What really happened? Charlotte winces with pain and grasps her stomach.
I told you...she went to live with her people in Chicago...Now, Skeeter, your mother is dying, and she wants to see you in this dress. Charlotte stands in her slip and bra holding the dress. Skeeter begins taking off her clothes.
How could she just take off without telling me?
I told her not to write you. I didn't want you upset in the middle of final exams. Honey, we were just a job to her. With them it's all about money...Did I tell you Fanny Peatrow got engaged? After she got that teller job, her mother said she was just swimming in proposals.
Good for "Fat Fanny Peatrow." She lowers the dress over Skeeter's head and zips it.
This looks precious on you! Four years ago my daughter went off to college, and what did she come home with?
A diploma. A pretty piece of paper.
Hilly and Elizabeth have such lovely children.
They dropped out of college to become housewives, Mother.
If only you'd show a little gumption, Eugenia...
Well, I did get a job today.
You did?
Writing...for The Jackson Journal. Charlotte plumps up the dress around Skeeter's behind.
Great. You can write my obituary. "Charlotte Phelan dead. Her daughter still single."
Momma, would it really be so terrible if I never met a husband? With that, Charlotte grabs Skeeter's hand and takes her to a love seat. They sit. This is serious.
I need to...ask you something, Skeeter. I read the other day about how some girls...get unbalanced, start thinking these...well, unnatural thoughts. Charlotte begins to twist the handkerchief she holds.
Are you...do you...find men attractive? Are you having unnatural thoughts about... Charlotte shuts her eyes tight.
Girls or...or women?
Oh my God!
Because, this article says there's a cure, a special root tea. Skeeter jumps up.
Mother, I want to be with girls as much as you wanna be with Jameso.
Eugenia! Skeeter storms out of the room.
Skeeter sits next to her Father, ROBERT PHELAN, 60. Skeeter's brother, CARLTON, 25, sits next to his fianc, REBECCA, 21. They're perfectly groomed with Hollywood good looks.
What the hell do you know about cleaning a house, Skeeter?
It's a start, Carlton.
Leave your sister alone, Son. I'm proud of you, Sweetheart. Charlotte scoops up some broth with a spoon.
Oh, the irony of it all. Givin' advice on how to keep up a home when she... Charlotte's spoon goes in her mouth. Pascagolua tries to scoop some sort of casserole covered in almonds onto Skeeter's plate. Skeeter stops her.
Oh! No, Pascagolua! You couldn't have known this...But, see, I'm allergic to almonds.
Sorry, Miss Eugenia.
Last time I had an almond, I stopped liking men. Charlotte glares at Skeeter. Carlton lets out a chuckle. Rebecca is mortified.
Oh my Lord.
It's okay, Rebecca. They have a special root tea now.
You have pushed it, Young Lady! Pascagolua scurries off. Skeeter turns to her father...
Daddy, what happened to Constantine? The room grows silent. Carlton looks down to his plate.
Ah...well, Constantine went to live with her family. People move on, Skeeter. But I do wish she'd stayed down here with us.
I don't believe you. Skeeter looks to her mother who immediately busies herself with scooping up more broth.
Mother, did you...fire her?
You wouldn't understand. Not until you've hired help of your own.
She raised me! Charlotte slaps the table and stands.
She worked here for twenty-nine years. Charlotte presses both hands to her stomach.
It was a colored thing, and I've put it behind me. Charlotte passes behind Rebecca and kisses her head.
Excuse me, Rebecca. My daughter has upset my cancerous ulcers. As Charlotte leaves the room, Rebecca looks at Skeeter like she's the worst person on earth. Skeeter gets up and storms off into the entry foyer.
Good luck down there, Carlton.
Have fun at the dance, Skeeter Legs. Robert and Carlton race outside as Charlotte enters, healthy and glowing.
Eugenia! You've grown another inch since breakfast. Go put on a dress that fits before that boy and his daddy come pick you up. A horn blows. Charlotte kisses Skeeter on the cheek and then looks over to CONSTANTINE, 50.
Pray Carlton doesn't like LSU, Constantine. It's so far. It might be the last we see of him. The horn blows again. Charlotte is out the door. Skeeter turns to Constantine who is all smiles.
Gone be just you and me all weekend.
I just couldn't tell her I didn't get asked to the dance.
Some things we should just keep to ourselves. Skeeter looks down to her long, bony legs.
I'm already taller than the boys' basketball coach. How tall are you, Constantine?
I'm five-thirteen, so quit feeling sorry for yourself.
Momma was third runner up in the Miss South Carolina pageant.
"Miss" what? Shoot, Child! You gone be "Miss Something Better." Constantine grabs Skeeter's hand and presses her thumb firmly to her palm.
Now you listen. Your momma didn't pick her life. It pick her, and she done even know it. You gone do something big with yours. Bigger than your momma or your brother. Constantine lets go of Skeeter's palm and wipes a tear from her face.
What about you? What did you want to be, Constantine? Constantine laughs.
Oh, Child! We don't get to pick. This pick us, and that just how it is. Tight on Skeeter's face as Constantine gives her a big hug.
Sunny skies and a high of ninety- eight today with ninety-nine percent humidity. There's a slight chance of afternoon showers so y'all carry an umbrella. Jolene pivots to camera, lowers her chin and smiles. Skeeter runs past Pascagoula with a phone and disappears inside the pantry.
What gave you this idea, Miss Phelan? I'm...curious.
I was...well, I was raised by a colored woman. I've seen how simple it can be and...well, how complex it can be, too...between the families and the help.
Continue.
I'd like to write something from the point of view of the help. These colored women raise white children, and then twenty years later those children become the employer. It's that irony, Miss Stein, that we love them and they love us yet...we don't even let them use the toilet in the house. Miss Stein's swivels her chair back around and sits up.
I'm listening.
Margaret Mitchell glorified the mammy figure who dedicates her whole life to a white family but no one...ever asked Mammy how she felt about it. There is both undisguised hate for white women and an inexplicable love, but nobody ever talks about it down here.
So, a side to this never before heard.
Yes! Charlotte knocks on the pantry door.
Skeeter, who are you talking to in there? Skeeter covers the mouth piece and opens the door.
Go! Away! Skeeter slams the door.
So, yes, their side of the story. Skeeter leans back against the shelves.
Who was that?
My mother. She just dropped by to-
Look, no maid in her right mind would ever tell you the truth. That's a hell of a risk in a place like Jackson, Mississippi. I watched them try to integrate your bus station on the news. Oy! They jammed fifty-five Negroes in a jail built for four. Skeeter panics.
I already have a maid. Skeeter can't believe what just came out of her mouth. Miss Stein rises and sits on the edge of her desk.
Really? A negro maid has already agreed to talk to you? Skeeter blinks hard. No turning back now.
Yes, ma'am...
Well...I suppose I could read what you come up with. The book biz could use a little rattling.
You'd do that?
I'm saying I'll let you know if it's even worth pursuing.
Oh, thank you, Miss Stein!
And for God's sake, you're a twenty- four-year-old educated woman. Go get an apartment. She hangs up.
"Dear Miss Myrna, How do I remove the rings from my fat, slovenly husband's shirt collar when he is such a pig and sweats like one too..."
Which one she want a get rid of? Them rings or the husband? Skeeter chuckles and shrugs her shoulders.
Tell her a vinegar and Pine-Sol soak. Then let it set in the sun a bit. Skeeter writes this down.
Bout an hour. Let it dry. Skeeter keeps writing. Aibileen notices something outside. Hilly walks into the Leefolt backyard with her son, BILLY, 3, perched on her hip. A CONTRACTOR, 30s, follows holding a set of plans. Skeeter turns to the open window. It's already started to sprinkle outside.
Build it just like the one at my house, right against the garage. The contractor nods. Lightning strikes, thunder cracks.
Oh, mercy! Hilly is off and running with Billy. Skeeter seizes the moment.
Aibileen, do you ever wish you could...change things? Aibileen turns slowly from the window.
I mean, all that talk yesterday and now with what Hilly's up to. Aibileen's eyes fall to the floor.
Everthing's fine.
My momma fired Constantine. Thank you for telling me that.
I never tolt you that! Aibileen jumps up as another crack of thunder sounds out.
Aibileen, I have an idea...Something I want to write about...But I need your help. Skeeter rises.
I want to interview you...about what it is like to work as a maid. Aibileen stops at the refrigerator, gripping the life out of its handle.
I'd like to do a book of interviews about working for white families. Show what it's like to work for, say...Elizabeth. Aibileen begins to perspire. She grabs the counter to steady herself, then moves toward her chair.
You know what'd happen to me if Miss Leefolt knew I was tellin' stories on her?
I was thinking we wouldn't tell her. The other maids will have to keep it secret, too.
Other maids?
I was hoping to get four or five. To really show what it's like in Jackson. To see what y'all get paid, the babies, the bathrooms, the good and the bad. Aibileen shakes her head.
They set my cousin Shinelle's car on fire just cause she went down to the voting station.
A book has never been written like this, Aibileen.
`Cause they's a reason. I do this with you, I might as well burn my own house down. Bam! The front door slams shut.
I put up with the new clothes and all the damn trips to New Orleans, but this takes the goddamn cake!
It'll confuse Mae Mobley if she sees Aibileen going inside. And we can't risk her health.
Aibileen hears Mae Mobley crying, but she is frozen.
Hilly spoke to the Surgeon General! She also said it'll add value to our home!
Great! Mae Mobley can just go to college in that bathroom, too.
Honey, Hilly's covering the cost...and said you can just do William's taxes to pay her back.
We don't take orders from the Holbrooks!
Skeeter? How you doing?
Fine.
Fix me a sandwich, Aibileen. Raleigh storms out as Elizabeth charges into the kitchen.
Aibileen, Mae Mobley's crying her eyes out! Aibileen runs off. Elizabeth sees Skeeter and tries to compose herself.
Skeeter...Hello. I'm sorry but I think it's best if you leave now. Skeeter gathers her things.
And...I don't think this Miss Myrna thing is gonna work out with Aibileen.
You're making it a lot hotter flapping your arm like that. Minny stops and begins squirming with discomfort. Missus Walters notices her looking out to the garage bathroom. Lightning strikes. Leaves blow across the yard. Hilly plops down in a chair with a candle.
That should do it. Minny, go get me and Momma some iced tea. Minny hesitates. She gulps.
Uh...Miss Hilly?
Yes.
Never mind. As Minny turns, Missus Walters calls out to her.
You go on ahead and use the guest bath, Minny. It's okay.
Oh, for crying out loud. It's just a little rain. She can go get an umbrella up in William's Study!
I believe she was working for me before you dragged us both here. Minny looks outside just as wind slams an aluminum lawn chair against the garage bathroom. Boom! Another crash of thunder. Large hail stones begin falling in the yard.
I'm gone get your tea.
Minny? Minny panics, staying completely quiet.
MINNYYYY, are you in there?
Yes, ma'am...
Are you sitting down? Minny gets up quickly and flushes the toilet. Hilly beats on the door.
On top a Minny losin' her tenth job, eighteen people died in Jackson that day. Ten white. Eight black.
God don't pay no mind to color or class once he sets a tornado loose. Within seconds, the rose blossoms are gone.
Soon after, that bitter seed inside of me had sprout and was growing fast... Well into her second pregnancy, Elizabeth exits the house with Mae Mobley at her side. She wears an awful, homemade maternity dress.
Hurry, Aibileen. Mae Mobley's up, and I'm off to the doctor. Aibileen reaches behind and flushes the toilet. Mae Mobley gets excited and points to the garage bathroom.
Aibee bafroom, Momma! Mae Mobley walks toward the bathroom and calls out.
Aibee? Elizabeth grabs her and forces her down on the back step.
No!
Be right there, Baby Girl. Aibileen pulls up her panty-hose.
Afternoon, Aibileen. Aibileen nods nervously, looking at the other domestics.
Can I talk to you? A bus pulls up.
You got some "Miss Myrna" questions for me?
No. Yule May and others board. Skeeter grabs Aibileen's arm.
Please. Aibileen signals to Yule May to go on ahead without her.
Yes, ma'am. The bus pulls away.
Please let me interview you. I know it's scary, but I really believe this has to be done. We'll be careful.
This already ain't careful, Miss Skeeter. You not knowing that is what scares me most. I'm sorry. Skeeter hands Aibileen a piece of paper with her phone number written on it. Aibileen turns and walks off down the sidewalk.
I know pretty well what happens if the white ladies found out we was writing about them. Womens, they ain't like men. Women don`t beat you with a stick. Naw, they like to keep they hands clean. Got a shiny set a tools they use, sharp as witches' fingernails. As Aibileen ambles toward a bench, TWO WHITE WOMEN in nurse uniforms push in front of her and sit.
Any person printing, publishing or circulating written matter urging for public acceptance of social equality between whites and negroes is subject to imprisonment.
Oh, Aibileen! I went and did it now! Minny wraps a hand up in the phone cord.
Miss Hilly been tellin' everbody in town I stole a candelabra! That's why I can't get no job.
Everbody know you honest, Minny.
Oh, but I got her back...I did something awful, Aibileen.
What you did?!
I cain't tell! I ain't tellin' nobody! I done a terrible awful thing to that woman. And now she knows what I did! Hilly answers the door and snarls at Minny. Minny presents the pie and says "I am sorry." Hilly waves Minny inside.
She got what she deserve, Aibileen. But, now I ain't gone never get no work again...Leroy gone kill me. Minny's husband, LEROY, 40, approaches behind Minny. Minny slowly turns...
Minny! She can't bear to listen and hangs up the phone. She sees Skeeter's phone number taped to the wall. Aibileen's breath becomes heavy. Anger wells inside her. She picks up the phone again and begins to dial.
I parked way up on State Street and caught a cab here like you asked.
Got dropped two streets over? Skeeter nods.
Aibileen, I now know it's against the law for us to meet like this. Skeeter stares Aibileen up and down. Aibileen self- consciously flattens our her dress.
I've never seen you out of uniform before. You look nice, Aibileen.
Thank you. Aibileen motions for Skeeter to sit on a narrow sofa behind a coffee table covered in hand-tatted lace. A tray holds a teapot, two cups that don't match and cookies resting on folded napkins. As Aibileen pours the tea, her hand shakes.
I'm sorry. I've never had a white person in my house before. Skeeter sips her tea.
I've never been in a colored person's home before. I think we're both doing great. This tea is really nice. Aibileen watches as Skeeter takes a bite of the cookie.
Miss Skeeter, What if...What if you don't like what I got to say? About white peoples?
I...this isn't about my opinion. It doesn't matter how I feel.
You gone have to change my name. Mine, Miss Leefolt's, everbody's.
Everybody? So, you know other maids who might be interested? Aibileen is quiet for a moment. She shakes her head.
It gone be hard.
What about Minny?
Minny got her some stories, sho nuff. But, she ain't real keen on talking to white peoples right now.
What does it feel like, to raise a white child when your own child's at home, being...looked after by somebody else?
It feel...Uh. Aibileen glances up to the framed picture of Treelore.
Is that your son?
Yes, ma'am. He dead two years now. Got run over at the lumber yard. Lungs were crushed.
I'm so sorry. That's horrible. And, Aibileen, you don't have to call me "ma'am." Not here anyway. Aibileen nods. Skeeter stares at her list of questions.
Do you want to talk about the bathroom? Or, about Elizab--Miss Leefolt? Anything about the way she pays you? Has she ever yelled at you in front of Mae Mobley? Aibileen shakes her head.
I'm sorry, I- Aibileen covers her mouth with her hand. Skeeter becomes disgusted with herself.
No, I am. She pulls out a stack of Miss Myrna letters.
Let's just do a couple of Miss Myrna letters, and I'll run on...
I thought I might write my stories down and read them to you.
Well, sure I guess.
It no different than writing down my prayers.
You don't say your prayers aloud?
Prayer like electricity. It keep life going. Writing it down make it more powerful. Lot a ailing, sick peoples in this town.
I'm sure.
I didn't get a chance to pray for Treelore.
God took him fast `cause he didn't want to argue with me. He was just twenty-four years old. The best part of a person's life.
Oh, Aibileen.
But he'd like we's doing this. He always said we gone have a writer in the family one day...After my prayers last night, I got some stories down too. Skeeter nods. Aibileen opens her notebook and reads.
My first white baby to ever look after was named Alton Carrington Speers. It was 1938, and I'd just turned fourteen years old. Daddy had left us, so I dropped out a school to help momma with the bills.
Aibileen stands next to Yule May and is whispering in her ear. Yule suddenly leans back, shocked, shaking her head "no." Minny watches from two pews back. Her curiosity is peaked.
Alton's momma died a lung disease. I loved that baby, and he loved me. That's when I learned I could make children feel proud of theyselves.
Alton used to always be asking me how come I's black...
It just ate him up, so one time I told him it cause I drank too much coffee. Oh, law, you should a seen his face.
This is great. You have no idea how much I appreciate this...But I just have to ask. What changed your mind?
We're running behind on our "coat drive," girls. So hurry up and clean out those closets...But our Christmas Benefit, however, is right on schedule as y'all have already filled all our baked goods raffle slots. The girls applaud, turning to each other with praise.
Y'all think we can put a dent in the African Children's hunger this year? More applause. Those who aren't pregnant, stand. Hilly beams. Elizabeth nudges Skeeter out of her chair.
Now for some exciting news...I wanted y'all to be the first to know...My William is seeking election to the State Senate this November! Now, even the pregnant women stand. Elizabeth grabs Skeeter's arm and pulls herself up.
He's runnin' on a platform of health. Protecting our children. Protecting our way of life. So, I, with William, have drafted The Home Health Sanitation Initiative. This sets off a room of whispers.
Skeeter, when can we expect to see the initiative in the newsletter? I gave it to you a month ago. Everyone turns to Skeeter. Elizabeth panics.
I gave that to you myself!
I, ah...Well, I-
Would you please stand, Skeeter? As Skeeter rises, several women shake their heads.
I'll have it in there soon. Skeeter glances at the initiative tucked in her satchel.
Hilly? Do you need a ride? Hilly shakes her head with little emotion.
I'm sorry about the newsletter. Hilly nods. A soft smile begins to form.
With Momma being sick and- Hilly erupts with excitement.
He's coming! Oh, Skeeter, he's definitely coming this time. This Saturday night.
Oh, Hilly, he's cancelled twice before. Maybe it's a sign.
Don't you dare say that!
You know I won't be his type. Hilly grabs Skeeter by the shoulders.
It's your time, Skeeter. And damnit, I'm not going to let you miss this just because your mother convinced you you're not good enough for somebody like him.
Eat up, Girl. Miss Woodra's like to not feed ya on try-out day. Sugar takes a bite of toast.
I still say you're too young to be waitin' on white peoples...Now, Sugar, I want you to listen to me, and you listen to me good. Minny grabs Sugar's face and looks her right in the eyes.
These are the rules for working in a white lady's house. Sugar jerks her face away and sticks her lip out.
Rule Number One: Don't you ever let White Lady find you sittin' on her toilet. Sugar nods.
Number Two: You keep your nose out of White Lady's problems, and don't cry to her with yours. White people ain't your friends.
Number Three: When you're cooking white food, taste it with a different spoon. They see you put the tasting spoon back in the pot, might as well throw it all out. Spoon, too.
Four: You use the same cup, same fork, same plate every day. Minny takes her first step on the stairs.
Five: Don't hit her kids. White people do they own spanking. Minny slowly raises her hand to knock on the front door.
Six: No sass-mouthing! Minny knocks.
Hey there! I'm Celia Rae Foote. Aibileen said you'd be on time. Minny looks down disapprovingly to Celia's bare feet.
Can I get you a cold Coca-Cola?
No, thank you. I'm Minny Jackson... You...cooking something?
One of those upsidedown cakes from the magazine. It ain't workin' out too good. Come on in.
What in the hell- Minny catches herself.
I guess I have some learnin' to do.
Johnny's momma wouldn't let me decorate a thing. If I had my way, this house would have wall to wall white carpet with gold trim and none of this old stuff. Minny spies a framed battle-worn Confederate flag complete with bullet holes.
Where you from? Celia lowers her head in shame...
Sugar Ditch. It's near Memphis.
I know Sugar Ditch. My cousin live there. Celia changes the subject.
Let's go meet Oscar! Celia grabs Minny's hand. Annoyed, Minny pulls it away.
Johnny's granddaddy shot him up in Montana back in 1910 with Teddy Roosevelt. Celia points to fifteen guns mounted behind Oscar.
We got five bedrooms and bathrooms here in the main house. The pool house has two more beds and baths.
When you gone have some chillins, start fillin' up all these beds? Celia swallows hard. She places her hand on her stomach.
I'm pregnant now. Minny steps back and surveys Celia.
Gone be eatin' for two. Double the cookin'. Celia slumps her shoulders as she looks around the house.
I know it's an awful lot to do. Five other maids have already turned me down...Can I at least give you some bus money?
When you hear me say I don't wanna clean this house?
What? So...You'll do it?! Before Minny can nod. Celia throws her arms around her. Minny backs away.
No huggin', now. No huggin'.
I'm sorry. This is my first time hiring a maid.
We got to talk about some things first. I work Sunday through Friday. Celia bites her pinky nail.
You can't come at all on weekends.
Okay. What time you want me here?
After eight, and you have to leave at four.
Okay. Now what your husband say you can pay? Celia looks away.
Johnny doesn't know I'm bringing in help.
And what's Mr. Johnny gone do if he comes home and finds a colored woman up in his kitchen?
It's not that I'd be fibbing. I just want him to think I can do this on my own...I need some help `til I get the hang of it. I need a maid.
A course you do. Last one done got shot in the head. Minny sniffs the air.
Miss Celia, I think you done burned up yo cake.
Oww! Dawgonit! She drops the burnt cake on the floor.
You can't use no wet towel on a hot pan. Minny grabs a dry towel and picks up the cake.
I'll take this burnt up cake with me so Mister Johnny don't see it.
Aibileen shakes her head. Elizabeth enters the room.
I'm off, Aibileen. Don't forget Raleigh wants pot roast tonight.
Yes, ma'am. Aibileen's eyes narrow.
I reckon I'm ready...to talk about Miss Leefolt now. Skeeter stops typing and looks up. She nods.
Baby girl don't get her diaper changed `til I get there in the morning. That's `bout ten hours she gots to sit in her mess. I be so worried about her on my day off. I always come in an hour early on Mondays.
Miss Leefolt pregnant again, too. And, law, I pray this child turn out good. It a lonely road if a momma don't think theys child is pretty. Charlotte glances down disapprovingly at the dingy, huarache shoes on Skeeter's feet. Skeeter heads for the door.
Where are you going, Skeeter? Skeeter turns.
Bible study.
On a Saturday night?
Momma, God doesn't care what day of the week it is. Skeeter walks out the back door as Charlotte shakes her head.
Miss Leefolt be spending so much time keeping up with the society ladies, she done forgot the child she got now. Just then Minny barges through the kitchen back door.
Aibileen! Minny stops cold in her tracks at the sight of Skeeter.
Yule May told me what y'all up to. Aibileen nods. Minny's face hardens.
Medgar Evers live five minutes away. They blew up his carport last night. For talking! Minny scowls at Skeeter.
What makes you think colored people need your help? You white. Why you care?
We all working for the same thing.
I want to show her perspective...so people might understand what it's like from your side.
Well it's a real Fourth of July picnic.
It's what we dream a doing all weekend long, get back in they house to polish the silver. And we just love not getting minimum wage or Social Security.
I know, Minny. Maybe things might
What law's gonna say you gotta be nice to your maid? And another thing, I don't want my children going to school with white kids. And I don't care a thing about votin.' Only thing black mens get elected to is Deacon of the church.
You don't have to do this, Minny.
You damn right I don't! You two givin' me the heart palpitations. Minny storms out the back door. Skeeter looks like she might get sick.
And that was a good mood. Minny immediately storms back in the kitchen.
All right...I'm gone do it. I just want to make sure you know this ain't no game we're playing here. Skeeter nods, trembling as Minny slides a chair in the middle of the kitchen and sits.
I's got to come up with your questions, too?!
Let's begin...begin with...with where you were born. Aibileen grabs her notebook and begins writing.
Belzoni, Mississippi on my great- auntie's sofa. Next!
Once Minny got to talking `bout food, she liked to never stop...
I put the green beans in first, then I go on and get the pork chops going cause, mmm-mmm, I like my chops hot out the pan. Just as Aibileen fills the first notebook, Skeeter hands her another from her satchel.
But when she got to talking about the white ladies, it took all night...
"Oh, Minny, I'm gone give you a week paid vacation." Now, I ain't had no paid vacation in my life. A week later, I come back and they'd moved to Mobile. "Miss Lazy Fingers" scared I'd find a new job before she moved... Minny spins around to Aibileen with sudden realization...
We gots to get more maids! Minny stands. Skeeter's eyes widen with hope.
I know, but it hard, Minny. Mind racing, Minny flies out the door without a word. Aibileen turns to Skeeter.
You gone and done it now.
I like this "Sarah Ross." She can kvetch but not complain too much.
And this "Bertha"...she's got chutzpah. I'll give her that.
So...you liked it?
Eugenia, Martin Luther King just invited the country to march with him in D.C. this August. This many negroes and whites haven't worked together since "Gone with the Wind."
Does this mean you'll publish it?
I never said that. My advice is to write it fast before this civil rights thing blows over. I need it by New Year's, and don't send me anything more until you have twelve maids.
Twelve?
At least.
Aibileen and I done asked everbody we know. Thirty-one maids. Everbody too scared, think we crazy...
Then we might as well stop!
I got plenty a stories, Miss Skeeter. Just write`em down and invent a maid that said it. We already making up everbody's name. Make up the maids, too. Skeeter jumps up from her chair.
We can't do that! Aibileen and Minny lean back.
I mean...I would never do that. It wouldn't be real. It's wrong.
Don't give up on us, Miss Skeeter. Skeeter softens and sits back down.
I'm sorry. Thank you both for trying.
What can you cook? Minny dips pieces chicken in an egg wash, then drops them in a paper bag. A puff of flour rises out of the bag.
I can cook corn pone, boil potatoes, and do grits. Minny bursts out laughing.
We didn't have electric current where I was raised.
Well, I reckon if there's anything you ought to know `bout cooking... Minny holds up a can of Crisco.
It's this. The most important invention since they put mayonnaise in a jar. You don't even know the things you can do with this here can. Celia peers into the skillet as Minny spoons out a mound of Crisco.
How pretty. Looks like frosting. Minny rolls her eyes and hands Celia the bag of Chicken.
Shake that. Celia starts shaking the bag.
This is fun!
Looks so good! I'm starved. Aggravated, Minny stands.
You supposed to eat in the dining room, Miss Celia. That how it works. Minny grabs Celia's plate.
Here, I'll take your plate in the dinin' room for ya. Want tea?
I'm fine right here, Minny. Minny sits back down with a sigh. Celia touches her arm.
I'm real grateful you're here.
Miss Celia, you got a lot more to be grateful for than me. A car is heard pulling up in the driveway. Minny panics.
Mister Johnny?!
Oh, no! Hide! Minny slides down underneath the kitchen table.
Oh...It's just the florist. Johnny must have sent me flowers. Minny pulls herself up off the floor. She's mad.
Miss Celia, I ain't playin' around no more! He gone catch me here and shoot me dead right here on this no- wax floor! You gots to tell him. Ain't he wondering how the cooking so good?
You're right. Maybe we ought to burn the chicken a little. The doorbell rings. Celia runs off to answer.
Minny don't burn chicken.
This is bound to work, Sweetie. It even smells expensive. She begins twisting Skeeter's hair into gooey spikes.
I feel the hope in your fingers. Skeeter resembles a papier mach starfish.
How can you not know his last name?
He's William's cousin. That's all I know.
That's just so sweet of Hilly. Charlotte takes a drag from her cigarette, then lifts up a silver machine complete with power cord and rubber hose.
What is that?!
The Shinolator! It cost eleven dollars. I'm a good mother. Charlotte puts a shower cap device on Skeeter's head and reads from the Shinolator manual.
"The Miracle Straitening Cap" must remain on the head for two hours."
Two hours?! Charlotte flips a switch and takes another drag. The machine groans to life. Skeeter's cap inflates.
I'll have Pascagoula bring you a magazine. Skeeter snatches her mother's cigarette and takes a drag.
Thanks, Constantine. Do you think this dress is cute? Skeeter holds the magazine up to Pascagoula. Only now does she realize what she's said and done.
I'm sorry. Thanks, Pascagoula. Pascagoula nods and starts to walk away then turns.
I knew Constantine. She was a mighty fine woman.
Holy shit.
You've shrunk five inches. You'll be able to wear heels tonight. Charlotte looks down to the huarache shoes on Skeeter's feet and rushes to the closet.
You're not leaving this house in those awful, Mexican, man shoes. Charlotte pulls out a dress and pair of heels.
What time is he picking you up?
He's meeting me at Hilly's. Can I take the Cadillac?
We promised Carlton the Cadillac tonight. So, William's cousin will just have to come get you himself.
I'll take the truck.
It's hooked to the motor grader.
I'll drive slow.
Don't mope. Remember to smile! Skeeter floors it. Charlotte runs faster.
And, don't sit like some squaw Indian. Cross! Your! Ankles! Skeeter leaves her mother in a cloud of dust.
With your daddy's endorsement, I can win that Senate seat. Stuart feigns interest.
I'll talk to him. Ice slams against Stuart's teeth as he downs his drink. Hilly pats William's leg then turns with concern to a grandfather clock announcing half past the hour. The front door flies open. Skeeter enters completely out of breath and sweaty. Her HAIR HAS TRIPLED IN SIZE. She waves.
Hey. As Hilly races toward Skeeter, William and Stuart stand. Stuart is as tall as he is handsome.
Boys, we'll be right back. Y'all talk about quarterbacks or something. Yule May, get Miss Skeeter a Coca Cola. Yule May runs off. Hilly pulls Skeeter down the hall.
Skeeter, you don't even have on lipstick! Skeeter dabs her armpits.
It was so goddamn awful. I hit a cat. Hilly sprays Final Net.
Well...What do you think of him? Skeeter applies lipstick. Hilly removes the rollers.
He looks handsome. Skeeter stands up and does a twirl for Hilly.
All right, give it to me. One to ten? Hilly sprays Skeeter with perfume and stands back.
Seven.
Really?! Seven? Hilly nods, lets out a little squeal.
Honey, you're beautiful. Just go on out there...you're gonna do great. It's your time, Skeeter. I just know it. Hilly hugs Skeeter.
You want a drink?
Just water, please.
THANKS?! So...you went to Alabama? Stuart nods. Hilly rolls her eyes.
"Roll Tide." We still love him. Hilly pinches Stuart on the cheek.
Now you're in the oil business. Hilly says you're a rigsite leader.
The money's good. If that's what you really want to know.
That's not what I- Skeeter and Hilly watch as Stuart's and William's eyes fix on the front of the restaurant. Celia and Johnny have entered. Celia wears a tight green dress and the reddest lipstick ever put in a tube.
Isn't that your old boyfriend, Hilly? Johnny Foote? Hilly scowls.
Who's his girl? Lord, she's hotter than Delta asphalt. Celia spots Hilly and gives a self-conscious wave.
William! The Lieutenant Governor just walked in. Hilly jumps up and pulls William away. The waiter returns with Stuart's drink and the water backs.
So, what do you do with your time?
I write a...a domestic maintenance column for the Jackson Journal. Stuart smirks, taking a huge sip of his drink.
You mean housekeeping? Skeeter nods and grabs her water.
Jesus, I can't think of anything worse than reading a cleaning column. Except maybe writing one.
We'd love your support on election day! Celia and Johnny walk up. Hilly stiffens.
Hilly, you look lovely tonight.
Thank you, Johnny.
William, have you ever met Celia? William steps forward and shakes Celia's hand.
Nice to meet you. Hilly grabs the crook of William's arm.
Sweetie, we need to go order our dinners. Celia musters up all the courage inside her.
Hilly, did you ever get the messages that I've been calling you?
I did not.
Well, I would love to help with the benefit. I have a lovely hand if you need invitations addressed.
"Save the dates" were mailed weeks ago...You didn't get one? Celia shakes her head.
Mail's a lot slower way out there in the country, huh?
Sounds like a ploy to find a husband...becoming an expert on keeping house.
Well, you must be a genius. You figured out my whole scheme. Skeeter fumes as Hilly and William return and sit.
What'd we miss?
Isn't that what you women from Ole Miss major in? Professional husband hunting?
I'm sorry, but were you dropped on your head as an infant? Stuart blinks and then smiles, somewhat impressed. Desperate to change the subject, Hilly claps her hands.
Who? Is? Hungry? Skeeter stands.
Not me! A kiss from God couldn't turn this `frog' into a `prince.' Tables begin to stare.
Or you a `princess,' Sweetheart! As Skeeter walks away, she purposefully slides her purse into a glass of water, knocking it over into Stuart's lap.
Run on, now, Yule May. Got a big crowd coming for Miss Leefolt's baby shower.
Miss Hilly, I would like to ask you and Mister William something. Hilly lowers her paper and nods. Yule May begins wrenching her hands.
My twin boys finished high school, both on the honor roll...My husband and I have been saving for years to send them to college.
Okay... Only now does William lower his paper.
We are short seventy-five dollars on one of the tuitions. William stands up, kisses Hilly on the cheek.
Well, I'm late. Gotta go. William leaves.
Go on...
Now...We're faced with having to choose. Which son gets to go...if we don't find all the money. Hilly draws in a deep breath as does Yule May.
Would you consider givin' us a loan? I'll...I'll work for free until it's paid off.
That's not working for free, Yule May. That's paying off a debt.
Yes, ma'am.
As a Christian, I'm going to do you a favor. Yule May's eyes widen as a hopeful smile forms.
God doesn't give charity to those who are well and able. You need to come up with this money on your own. You'll thank me one day. Hilly raises the paper up to her face as Yule May exits.
That's her. Aibileen's mouth drops open at the sight of Celia's shorts and tight sweater. Celia is having trouble selecting produce.
Lord, she's trying to shop. Celia walks up to a maid, grabs her, and pulls her to the tomatoes. The maid, clearly uncomfortable, selects a tomato, hands it to Celia, and scurries away.
Miss Celia just don't see `em. The lines. Not between us, Miss Hilly, nobody. Aibileen just nods.
What you so quiet for? I know you got a opinion `bout all this.
You gone accuse me a philosophizing.
I ain't afraid a no philosophy.
I don't believe in lines anymore. Lines is in our heads `cause people like Miss Hilly try to make us believe they there. Celia squeezes a canteloupe with another scared maid.
Oh, they there. I know. I get punished for crossing them.
Lotta of folk think if you talk back to your husband, you crossed a line...need to be punished.
You know I ain't studying no line like that.
Cause it ain't there. `Cept in Leroy's head. Lines between black and white ain't there either. Minny and Aibileen watch as Celia exits the store with her groceries and prances toward her car.
So, I ain't crossing no line if I tell Miss Celia she ain't good enough for Miss Hilly? Tell her she ain't in Miss Hilly's league?
All I'm saying is kindness don't have no boundaries. Just then, MYRLIE EVERS, 30,  approaches the bus stop with her three Children. SONS, 10 and 3, and a
Aibileen and Minny nod as the Evers walk past and sit on a bench.
Law, the Evers children have gotten so big!
No. You got me. A bus pulls up and the doors open. Minny, Aibileen and the other maids step aside to let the Evers family board first.
A table is set in the middle of the yard covered in white linens and Hilly's best sliver. Hilly's son sits on her lap. The other girls' children wear bathing suits jumping noisily in and out of two plastic kiddy pools. Yule May clears cake plates while Aibileen removes crumbs with a sterling crumb scraper. Mae Mobley wanders up to the table. Her belly almost looks distended crammed inside last year's one piece.
Mae Mo hungry, Momma. Elizabeth turns to Mae Mobley but never gets up.
She's always hungry. All the women laugh except for Skeeter.
You know she can hear you, Elizabeth? Elizabeth looks down to her plate. Aibileen sets down the scraper and kneels down to Mae Mobley.
I'm on cut you some cake, Baby.
Aibileen, we gave that scraper to Hilly and William for their wedding present. Chantilly!
It so pretty. Hilly begins bouncing William Jr. on her knee.
Aibileen, are you enjoying your new bathroom over at Elizabeth's? Hilly nods with a tight smile and glances to the ground at Skeeter's red satchel.
Nice to have your own, isn't it?
Yes, ma'am.
Separate but equal. That's what Ross Barnett says, and you can't argue with the Governor.
Not in Mississippi. Birthplace of modern day government. Hilly narrows her eyes at Skeeter and turns to Aibileen.
Aibileen, did you know that me and Mister Holbrook arranged for that bathroom? Sent the boys over and the equipment, too. Hilly stays on Aibileen, waiting for her to say something. Skeeter fumes, hoping Aibileen doesn't say it.
Yes, ma'am...And I thank you. Hilly smiles and nods.
Well...You. Are. Welcome. Hilly shoots Skeeter a last look. William Jr. leans into Hilly and hugs her.
One thing I got to say about Miss Hilly, she love her children. Always tellin' them they smart and beautiful. Can't go more than ten minutes without givin' one a kiss. Hilly kisses her son gently.
And, law, do they love her back. When she starts up on me, I just try and think a my sweet Treelore and how much he loved me. That kind a love makes me cry. Even when it going to Miss Hilly. Hilly again glances to the red satchel, staring quizzically at the worn booklet of The Jim Crow laws sticking out.
May I get you something?
No, thanks...
I know what you want to ask, Miss Skeeter. Aibileen and Minny already did. Yule May closes the kitchen door.
I'm trying to get my boys off to college. It's worthwhile what y'all doing, but my boys are worth more.
I understand.
What do you "understand," Skeeter? Skeeter and Yule May turn to find Hilly standing in the swinging door leading into the dining room.
Ah...Yule May was just telling me how excited she was that her boys were going to go to college.
Is that true, Yule May?
Yes, Ma'am. Skeeter notices that Hilly is holding the booklet of Jim Crow laws in her hand.
Did you also ask Miss Skeeter if you could borrow money?
Of course not, Hilly! Hilly approaches Skeeter.
Skeeter, I'm starting to think you're intentionally not putting my initiative in the newsletter. Eyes down, Yule May hurries out of the kitchen.
Not at all. I'm just so busy right now with Mom.
Skeeter...I'm sorry about your mother. And I know you must be so worried. Hilly holds up the Jim Crow booklet.
But I'm worried about you. All this carrying on lately and now you're reading this stuff?
My dad had me get that for him.
I mean, around your friends is one thing...But, believe it or not, there are real racists in this town! If the wrong person caught you with this...you'd be in serious trouble. Skeeter snatches the booklet from Hilly.
Thanks, Hilly! And thanks for going through my things.
Skeeter!
What?!
Don't panic, but there's a very tall man named Stuart here for you.
He's a drunken asshole, Mother. You wouldn't like him. Charlotte pulls a sun dress out of Skeeter's closet.
Skeeter, love and hate are two horns on the same goat. And, you need a goat!
Stuart, would you like a cocktail? Skeeter shoots her mother a "What the..." look.
No, Ma'am. Little too early.
Ha! Charlotte moves on.
What's your last name, Stuart?
Whitworth.
Hmm...Where are you from?
Natchez.
Really? Well, I know a Whitworth from Natchez...But he's a Senator up in Washington.
Yes, Ma'am. That's my daddy.
Who is?
Senator Whitworth. That's my father. Charlotte's jaw drops to her string of pearls.
Really? Stuart nods. Charlotte stands, flustered yet joyful.
Well...tell him I said "Hello"...I'm going to go see if Pascagoula needs some help in the kitchen. Charlotte backs away behind Stuart's chair. She points at Skeeter violently, as if to say, DON'T MESS THIS UP!
Look. I know it was a few weeks back, but I came here to say I'm sorry for the way I acted.
Who sent you? William or Hilly?
Neither. I was rude, and I've been thinking about it a lot.
Well, I haven't. So, just go.
Now, look. I told Hilly I wasn't ready to go out on any date. I wasn't even close to ready. Stuart shoves his hands in his pockets like a boy.
I was engaged last year. She ended it. Skeeter refuses to pity him.
We'd been dating since we were fifteen. You know how it is.
Actually, I don't. I've never dated anyone before. Stuart looks up and starts laughing loudly.
Well! That must be it then.
What?
I've never met a woman that said exactly what she was thinking.
I've got plenty to say...
Would you like to...come downtown with me and have dinner? We could talk... We could listen to each other this time.
I can't think of anything worse. Stuart looks down and nods.
Then, I'm sorry. That's what I came to say and...I said it. Stuart turns and walks towards his car, self-consciously weaving his strong fingers through his hair. Skeeter looks up to her mother's empty window and shouts out to Stuart.
Just give me a minute! Stuart turns.
Let me get my sweater.
What do you want, Skeeter?
I'll have a Co-cola. Lots of ice.
No, I mean in life. What do you want? Only now does Skeeter notice the tray of champagne the waiter is holding. Stuart nods as two glasses are set before them. The waiter leaves.
I want to be a journalist. Maybe a novelist. Maybe both.
I like that...I've been thinking about you. You're smart, you're pretty, you're...tall!
Pretty?
Yes. And I read your column. Very informative.
I hope you get to write something really good, Skeeter. Something you believe in. Stuart suddenly leans over and kisses Skeeter.
Baby girl home.
Aibileen! My trunk's full! Aibileen rises slowly, placing a hand on her knee. Outside, Elizabeth suddenly shouts out hysterically.
Mae Mobley! No! Stop! Aibileen panics. She gets up, looks out the window.
Me and Aibiee bafroom, Momma. Elizabeth runs over and yanks Mae Mobley off, popping her hard on the behind.
It! Is! Not! Mae Mobley begins to cry. Aibileen watches as Elizabeth hiss- whispers and yanks Mae Mobley hard on the arm.
This is dirty out here! You'll catch diseases. Elizabeth punctuates with three more slaps to her legs.
No! No! No!
I'm here, baby girl. Aibee's here. Aibileen kisses her on the cheek.
You is kind. You is smart. You is important...You want me to tell you one a our secret stories? Mae Mobley nods. The phone rings. Aibileen rises.
I got it!
One day this wise Martian come down to Earth to teach us people a thing or two.
Martian? How big?
Oh, he about six-two.
What's his name?
Martian Luther King.
What did he look like?
Looked just like us, nose, mouth, hair on his head. But, sometimes people looked at him funny and were just downright mean to him.
Why Aibee? Why was they so mean?
`Cause he was green. Elizabeth suddenly barges into the living room.
Aibileen! Come on! We have to go help Hilly. Now! Come on! Elizabeth runs outside. Aibileen grabs Mae Mobley.
Look! Look, Aibee. Hilly flies out of her house as a REPORTER snaps a picture of her.
Get out of here! Hilly pushes him in the bushes and runs up to Elizabeth.
Skeeter! She put it in the newsletter. I specifically said old coats are to be dropped at my house. Not commodes! Hilly faces the toilets again and screams.
She put it in the newsletter when she knew we'd be down at the beach. Hilly steps up to Aibileen and points to the old men.
Go help those boys GET THOSE
Y'all stay put. Let me find out what's going on. As the driver gets up, a WLBT-TV news truck whizzes by followed by a police motorcycle. Aibileen leans in the aisle and looks ahead. The driver returns. The young black man speaks up.
Colored people off. White people lemme know where y'all are going. I'll get you as close as I can.
What's going on? Aibileen and the young man walk down the stairs.
I don't know. Some nigger got shot. Where you headed? The bus door shuts and the driver backs away.
I be all right. My house is seven blocks from here.
Naw, thank ya. I'll be fine...Law, I hope this ain't as bad as- Aibileen turns to discover the young man is gone. She stares into the darkness. Scared, she begins to run. She cuts through a yard and trips over a hedge. She falls hard to her knees. Terrified, Aibileen begins to sob. She sees Minny's porch light and pulls herself up.
Aibileen! You okay? Aibileen nods, trying to compose herself.
Almost ten years serving as the Field Secretary for the NAACP...Medgar Evers is dead. Aibileen swallows hard.
KKK shot him! Hour ago. Right in front a his children, Aibileen.
We gone pray for the Evers. We gone pray for Myrlie. Minny raises her fists.
We living in hell! We trapped. Our kids is trapped. Minny turns to Sugar.
Take your brother and sister and go get in my bed. Stay there! Sugar leads the kids to the back of the house.
What they gone do to us if they catch us with Miss Skeeter?
We gone be careful.
Hitch us to a pickup and drag us behind? Shoot me front a my kids?
We ain't doing civil rights with Miss Skeeter. We just tellin' stories like they really happen. Minny and Aibileen grab hands and squeeze hard.
You a fool, old woman. A fool! Aibileen hugs Minny.
I can't believe I'm on say this... But, I actually wish Leroy was home right now. Aibileen and Minny laugh a little through the tears.
You are sick. Do not speak to me. Do not look at me. Don't say hello to my children. How long had you been planning to humiliate my family?
That's not it, Hilly.
You thought you were so clever, didn't ya? But I've already installed three of those old toilets in people's garages.
Technically, it was a typo, Hilly.
I intend to tell Stuart he's ruining his reputation by associating with you. Jolene's yard boy saw you hanging around the colored bus stop.
I wasn't hanging-
I guess your car was in the shop? Skeeter looks away.
You know as well as I do, people won't buy so much as a slice of pound cake from an organization that harbors racial integrationists! Skeeter steps forward.
Hilly, just who is that pound cake money being raised for, anyway? Hilly rolls her eyes.
"The Starving Children of Africa." Skeeter nods and walks away. Hilly shouts out.
Just so you know, Lou Ann Templeton has taken your seat at bridge club.
Miss Celia?
Miss Celia, you in here? Minny hears running water and muffled crying behind the bathroom door. She presses her ear to the door.
Hello? You sick? Minny twists the knob. It's locked.
I'm fine. Minny. Go on home for the day.
You mess up your hair coloring again? I helped you fix it last time, got it back real pretty.
I said go home, Minny! Minny sees water creeping out from under the door. She steps back and charges, shoulder first.
Miss Celia! Celia aimlessly moves the blood around with a wash cloth.
There's so much blood. Why is there so much blood this time? Minny crawls over, peers into the toilet bowl and gags.
Please, Minny. Will you get it out? I can't look at it again. Shaken, Minny reaches for a trash can. She puts her hand on Celia's neck and pushes it down.
Keep your head down.
The two rosebushes stand in the middle of the front lawn. A DOCTOR enters the room.
Give her another pill if she gets too agitated. There'll be more bleeding, but don't call me unless it's heavy. Minny nods as the doctor leaves.
We got married because I was pregnant. But it slipped out too.
That's just God's way. Next one's gonna catch.
Johnny wants kids now. I thought if I was real still, brought somebody in to do the house and cooking, maybe I'd hold on to this one. Oh, Minny, what's he gonna do with me?
He gone have to get over this. He needs to know this takes time.
He doesn't know about this one, or the one before... Minny turns to Celia, stunned by this revelation.
Minny, you know how to play bridge, don't you? Minny nods.
Yes, ma'am. I used to help Missus Walters practice.
Happy Birthday! Mae Mobley two today! Mae Mobley laughs as Aibileen sets down the grits.
Mae Mobley three!
You sure is, Baby Girl. Blow'em out `fo they run up in your grits. Mae Mobley blows out the candles.
How old are you, Aibiee?
Fifty-three.
Do you get burfdays?
Gone be fifty-four next week.
Do you have some babies?
I gots seventeen of `em.
Where are the babies?
They all over town.
Aibee...You're my real mama.
Now, you know who your momma is.
I'm your real baby, Aibee. Those other ones are just pretend.
She removes a card from Celia's and lays it down. She then points to the hand next to Celia. Celia nods.
Okay. First order of business. We're updating our newsletter. Hilly stares right at Skeeter who sits alone in the back.
We're adding a fashion column with all the latest trends...Your dresses better be cute at next week's benefit! The women applaud and tap each other on their thighs.
Now it's time to choose a new editor for our new modern monthly. Skeeter braces herself as hands pop up everywhere. Jolene French stands.
I nominate Hilly Holbrook. Jolene looks back and snarls at Skeeter.
Jolene, you're the sweetest thing!
I second. I third. All in favor of Hilly, say "Aye." The room erupts.
Aye! Skeeter's ousting took less than ten seconds. Elizabeth secretly turns to Skeeter from a few rows ahead.
Honey, would you like me to drop you off at bridge club on the way to my doctor's appointment?
Everything okay? Elizabeth looks back. Her belly is huge.
Shhh! There's a knock at door.
Elizabeth, it's me, Celia Foote. I was in the neighborhood and thought I'd drop by. The girls giggle more loudly now. Celia peers into the living room window. The bridge tables are in plain view. Celia's face grows pinker than her sweater.
I...brought you a chocolate pie...My maid, Minny, made it. Hilly's face hardens...
They made me stand there like the vacuum man. Why, Minny? Minny freezes, keeping her face on the peas.
Because they know about you getting knocked up by Mister Johnny. They mad you married one a they mens. Especially since Mister Johnny and Miss Hilly had just broke up, too.
So, Hilly probably thinks I was fooling around with Johnny while they were still going steady.
Missus Walters says Miss Hilly still sweet on Mister Johnny, too. Celia suddenly slaps her thigh with excitement.
No wonder! They don't hate me...They hate what they think I did!
They hate you cause they think you're white trash! And don't be takin' pies to those women!
Well, I'm just going to have to let Hilly know I'm not a boyfriend stealer. In fact, I'll tell her Friday night at the benefit. Celia rises and smiles like she just cured cancer.
Now, Miss Celia...please don't be going to that benefit. Celia gets some ice out of the fridge.
Did you hear what I said? Celia places the ice in a towel and approaches Minny. She looks at the cut above her eye.
What are you doing?
That looks bad.
I got to get my work done.
I know you didn't fall in the tub, Minny. Let me take a look. Celia grabs Minny's hand. Minny pulls away. Just then Johnny pulls up in the driveway. Celia and Minny turn to the window, then spring into action.
Come here, Sexy!
Johnny, you are bad! Bad! Bad! Minny looks at the ridiculous image of herself crouching on the toilet in the bathroom mirror. She raises Celia's ice rag up to her swollen eye.
What's wrong?
Yule May in prison, Miss Skeeter. Gone be there four years. Minny shouts out across the kitchen.
Hilly Holbrook been sent from the devil to ruirn all our lives.
Please! A nigra walks in a pawn shop with a ring of such size and clarity. It took'em all of five minutes to figure out where she worked. Hilly leads the girls' nods of acknowledgement.
I knew that girl was a thief the day she started.
I'll ask daddy to get her a good lawyer.
She had a lawyer. A white lawyer! But Miss Hilly friends with the judge's wife. Whole thing took two days. Arrested on Tuesday, in the state pen by Wednesday.
The church gone send them boys to college. Gone pass the plate `til they graduate... The women part, making way as Aibileen leads Skeeter to a seat at the kitchen table. PEARLY, 58, sits next to Skeeter and touches her arm.
I'm on help with your stories. Another WOMAN walks over.
I'm on help too. Another woman speaks from the living room.
Thank you. I don't know what to-
Been there thirty-eight years and Miss Margaret still makes me put my hair up in a rag. Say she know coloreds don't wash theys hair. But, I love her. She love me too.
I had been workin' for Miss Jolene's mother up `til she died. Then her daughter, Miss Nancy, asked me to come work for her. Miss Nancy a real sweet lady.
But her momma left it in the will that I had to work for her daughter, Miss Jolene. Miss Jolene a mean woman. Mean for sport. I tried to get another job, but in everbody mind, the French family and Miss Jolene owned me.
CALLIE, 60, takes off her glasses and wipes her eyes.
I used to take a shortcut ever day to work at Doctor Dixon's house. Cut through this farmer's lower forty to get there. One day, that farmer was waitin' on me with a gun, said he'd shoot me dead if I walk on his land again. Doctor Dixon went and paid that farmer double for two a those acres. Told him he `bout to start farmin' too. But he bought it just for me. So I could get to work easy. He did. Skeeter closes her eyes for moment. When she opens them she sees A VISION OF CONSTANTINE STANDING
Constantine smiles and grabs Skeeter's hand. She presses her thumb firmly in her palm. When Skeeter blinks again, the vision is gone. Standing in place of Constantine is GRETCHEN, 26.
All these colored women have been real nice, haven't they?
Yes. Very nice.
Well, they hate you. You know this? Every little thing about you. But you're so dumb, you think you're doing them a favor. Skeeter and the other maids are taken aback.
You don't have to do this.
You know the nicest thing a white woman's ever done for me? Gave me the heel of her bread. These women are playing a trick on you. They'll never tell you the truth!
You don't know what they've said.
Say it, lady, say the word you think every time one us stands in front of you. Nigger. Aibileen crosses over to Gretchen.
That's enough, Gretchen.
You just as dumb as she is.
Get out a my house!
Tell her to pour vinegar in her trash cans. Then them dogs will stay away. As Skeeter writes this down, someone walks onto Aibileen's front porch. Skeeter becomes worried. Aibileen looks to a wall clock and smiles. About a dozen letters and cards fall into a basket under the mail slot. Aibileen jumps up and starts sorting through the cards.
Today my birthday, Miss Skeeter.
Well, happy birthday, Aibileen. You should have told me.
And, from all over the county, my babies find they way home. Aibileen stops on one card in particular. She sits back down next to Skeeter.
Some even from overseas. Alton Spears lives in Paris now. Married him a real pretty French girl. Got five kids, too...they's my grandbabies.
I still don't drink coffee. Happy Birthday. Love Alton. Aibileen laughs and raises her hand to her mouth. Skeeter is touched. The doorbell rings. Aibileen jumps up and opens the door. A delivery man greets her with two more vases of flowers. Aibileen looks out to the street where a white woman gets out of her car with a huge country ham. Two little girls in matching dresses jump out behind her. The woman sees Aibileen on the porch and waves. Aibileen waves back and smiles. Catching it all, the moment soon grows bittersweet for Skeeter. She wipes her eye.
Eugenia?! Skeeter's eyes pop open. She's groggy and hasn't fully realized the company lying next to her.
What?! Stuart throws his arm over Skeeter. Reality sinks in. Skeeter rolls over to find Stuart, eyes shut, smiling.
Oh my God! Oh my God! When Stuart tries to get up, Skeeter flattens him reaches down and pulls the covers up over his entire body.
Don't move a muscle! Skeeter props up on her side and faces the door making sure the covers hide that she's clothed. Charlotte enters and heads straight for Skeeter's closet.
Morning, Sleepy Head.
Morning, Mom. Charlotte pulls out a dress and lays it on the bed, right on top of Stuart.
I thought you could take me to the doctor this morning and then we could get some lunch afterwards.
Sure! Charlotte spies a LARGE TOE sticking out of the covers. It belongs to Stuart, but she assumes it's Skeeter's.
 Or...we could...go straight to Fanny Mae's for a girl day.
Great! I'll get dressed.
When did Stuart leave last night?
Right after you went to bed.
Well, I hope he knows he's welcome to stay in Carlton's old room.
I'm not really ready for that yet.
"Bird in the hand," Eugenia. Bird. In. The. Hand... Charlotte exits and shuts the door.
 Chirp. Chirp. Skeeter is mortified. Stuart sits up, grinning.
Oh my God! Stuart tries to kiss Skeeter. She resists.
My breath is horrible.
So is mine.
I love you.
I love you, too. They kiss.
Celia runs into the living room. Tears stream down her face. Minny turns to Celia. Cronkite tells the nation that John F. Kennedy is dead. Minny's eyes roll back in her head as she starts to faint. She grabs on to Oscar's body and slides down to the floor.
A neighbor suddenly pulls up in his car stopping in front of Hilly. He leans out and tells Hilly the tragic news. In complete disbelief, Hilly puts her hand over her mouth. She then grabs William, pulls him in close as if he's somehow in danger.
Honey, I'm sorry, but I have to get down to the coast. Skeeter nods as Stuart kisses her.
I'll be back in time for the benefit. Love you.
You, too. We hear Walter Cronkite's parting thoughts on JFK.
Are you okay?
The world done gone crazy, Miss Skeeter! And I'm scared! What if folks find out what we writing? Figure out Niceville really Jackson, and figure out who who?
Aibileen. We've changed all the names. Aibileen snaps.
Y'all two gone sit there and tell me you one hundred percent without a doubt sure `bout all this?! Skeeter looks away..
No...So I been thinking...Maybe we need us some insurance. Skeeter look to Minny.
I told God I'd never speak of it again. But we got no choice. It's time...Time to tell you both "the terrible awful" I did to Miss Hilly. It might be the only thing to protect us.
Nobody wanted to hire a sass- mouthing, thieving nigra, did they? Minny stands silent as Hilly finishes in three bites.
Pie's as good as always, Minny.
I'm glad you like it. Hilly cuts another piece for herself.
If...I take you back, I'll have to cut your pay five dollars a week. Not expecting this, Minny leans away from Hilly.
Take me back? Hilly takes an even bigger bite from the second slice.
What do you put in here that makes it taste so good?
That good vanilla from Mexico... Minny's eyes narrow over a forced smile.
And...something else real special. Missus Walters grabs a plate and reaches for the pie.
No, Missus Walters. That Miss Hilly's special pie.
Momma can have a piece. Hilly slides the pie a little too fast down the counter toward Minny. Minny stops it before it falls to the floor.
Cut her one.
What did you say?
I said eat my shit!
Have you lost your mind?! Minny moves toward Hilly.
No. But you're about to, `cause you just did. Minny nods smugly as she looks down at Hilly's slice.
Did what? Missus Walters immediately gets it. She bursts out laughing so hard she has to lower herself to the floor.
Well, Hilly, that's what you get, I guess. And you didn't just eat one. You ate two slices! Hilly starts to hyperventilate as everything sinks in. As Minny leaves, Hilly runs to the sink and throws up.
You trying to get yourself killed?!
No! I never planned to tell her! I just wanted to see her take a bite and leave so I could be done with her. Forever! She was never supposed to ask me back. Minny eyes narrow.
And, then for less pay! That got me even madder. And, then she went slid that pie at me. Oh lord! That was it! I just lost control, Aibileen...you know how I get, now.
So, before I knew it, it just came on out my mouth...and I had tolt her what was in that pie. Aibileen looks to Skeeter shaking her head. Minny suddenly gets misty. She wipes her eyes.
I've asked God to forgive me. But, more for what happened to poor Missus Walters. Miss Hilly threw her in that nursing home just for laughing.
It's too dangerous, Minny.
We need insurance! Hilly Holbrook can't never let people know that pie story is about her.
Exactly! If people find out "The Terrible Awful" was you and Miss Hilly, then we in trouble. Trouble there ain't words for!
Right! But don't you see? Miss Hilly gone go to her grave convincing people this book ain't about Jackson. Then we safe, insured! Minny gets up and walks toward Aibileen.
You brought me into this, and I'm on finish it! Either put it in or pull my parts out all together. Minny storms out of Aibileen's kitchen.
The last editor's meeting is December 17th. If you want a chance of this getting read, I need it in my hands by then.
But that's in a week, Miss Stein!
Otherwise it goes in The Pile. You don't want it in The Pile.
Yes, Ma'am.
And you must get a piece in about the domestic who raised you. It'll add something personal to it. Skeeter nods with frustration.
Dressed to the nines, Jolene raises a microphone and looks into the camera.
This is Jolene French reporting from the African Children's Benefit Ball, and I'm here with League President Miss Hilly Holbrook.
Thanks, Jolene... Three dozen servers stand in a line. Minny and Aibileen are among them. Tables are covered with items donated for the auction. On the baked goods table, Minny's famed chocolate pie promises to again be a big money maker. Celia and Johnny enter the ballroom. Celia wears a hideous, pink and silver sequined gown. As usual, Celia's breasts command attention. The room locks on Celia as specks of light bounce off her dress and jiggle across the ceiling. A TITILLATED OLD HUSBAND tips his martini onto his wife's shoe.
 Look at the jugs on that one!
Bosoms are for bedrooms and breast- feeding. Not occasions of dignity. Celia downs a glass of champagne and leans into Johnny.
Do you think I might have overdressed a little? It's supposed to be formal, but this looks like a funeral.
You look gorgeous. Minny pulls Aibileen aside and points to Celia.
Look what she got on. Celia grabs more champagne from a passing server.
Lord have mercy. Ladies better hold onto they husbands tonight. Celia catches eyes with Minny. She smiles and nods quickly and then looks away, careful not to tip off Johnny of their relationship.
There's Skeeter and that must be Stuart. He's handsome... Missus Walters?! Missus Walters enters wearing a floor-length blue beaded gown, circa 1943. A white orchid wilts at her clavicle.
Hilly can throw her in a home, but she can't keep the taxis away.
Well, hello, Elizabeth.
Hi. Elizabeth's homemade maternity ball gown resembles a velvet potato sack cinched with red ribbon.
Those are lovely dresses.
Yours too.
Really?! I was worried I was a tad overdressed. Jolene reaches out an pats Celia's shoulder.
Oh, no. You're just perfect. Elizabeth pulls Jolene away. Celia downs her drink.
Everybody enjoying their dinner? The room claps enthusiastically.
A cause I'm sure is dear to their hearts as well. Skeeter shakes her head as the less inspired applause dies down. Celia waves to Minny and jumps out of her chair.
Woo-hoo! Johnny grabs Celia by the arm and pulls her back down. Celia reaches for Johnny's glass of wine.
Honey, maybe you've had enough to drink. Try to eat your dinner.
And have my stomach poke out?!
Why, Johnny Foote. I'm surprised to see you here. Everybody knows you can't stand parties like this. Hilly squeezes the crook of his arm.
Celia wouldn't have missed this for anything.
Where is that wife of yours? Out selling hotdogs? Johnny looks away.
Oh, you know I'm teasing you. We dated long enough where I can do that, can't I? Johnny walks away leaving Hilly no choice but to acknowledge Stuart. She and Stuart never look each other's way.
I've got the list of winners!
I hope you enjoy your new set of tires, Missus Atwell. Now, on to the baked goods. Jolene flips a page.
Oh, yum! Yum! The highest bid in baked goods goes to Minny Jackson's chocolate pie. Congratulations, Hilly Holbrook! The room erupts in applause. Hilly now sits at a table with her family, Missus Walters, and the Leefolts. Skeeter and Stuart sit at a table full of elderly people they don't know. Minny clears dishes nearby. Hearing her name, she becomes very alert.
What? I didn't bid on anything. Minny turns to find Hilly smiling at her tightly.
Well, wasn't that sweet. Someone signed me up for that pie.
Congratulations, Hilly! I didn't know you're a fan of Minny's pies. Hilly remains calm. Celia grabs Hilly's long sleeve.
I've wanted to talk to you all night. Minny told me why you won't be my friend. You think me and Johnny went behind your back.
Let me go! Hilly stands up and pulls away. A ripping sound cuts through the air. Celia stares at Hilly's torn cuff in her hands.
Oh, God.
I'm so sorry.
I don't know what you-
-You liar! Who did you tell?! Jolene loses her place on the list. The room grows quiet but Celia is still yelling.
Hilly, I got pregnant after you and Johnny broke up! The room echoes with Celia's words. Across the room, women's noses wrinkle.
Oh, shit.
Shut up, Mother. Stuart belts out with a laugh. Skeeter pinches his arm. Celia is mortified. Sweat beads on her forehead.
Johnny never cheated on you...At least, not with me. Celia starts to breathe heavily. Her eyes start to water.
Johnny would never-
And I'm sorry I thought you'd be tickled to win that pie.
You tell that nigra if she tells anybody, I will make her suffer. Horrified, Skeeter catches eyes with Minny and Aibileen. They all immediately look away. Johnny makes his way over. Celia holds her breath, shaking her head back and forth.
Celia, what's wrong, Honey?
Uh-oh. Celia leans over and vomits on the fleur-de-lis print carpet. The entire room gasps in horror.
Oh, shit! Johnny tries to pull Celia back. She pushes Johnny away and runs for the bathroom. He follows. Hilly marches over to Aibileen who is standing nearby.
Get that cleaned up before it starts to smell.
Yes, ma'am.
That big-boobed lady Momma works for was drunker than an Injun on payday. Upchucked in front a everbody! As the girls all laugh, Minny pops Sugar hard on the back of her head.
Don't you never let me hear you talking bad about the lady who puts food in your mouth. Clothes on your back! You hear me? Minny storms off.
Just come on home and stay with us tonight, Mother.
No thanks, I got a pie to eat. Hilly spins around and sees the pie.
You throw that pie away right now!
I spent good money on this. Won it just for you...
You?! You signed me up? Missus Walters steps up to Hilly.
I may have trouble remembering my own name and what country I live in. But there's two things I can't seem to forget. That my own daughter threw me in a nursing home...And that she ate Minny's shit. Missus Walters winks at Hilly and ambles to a waiting taxi cab.
Ain't Mister Johnny gone wonder how dinner got on the table if you laid up in bed? Celia pulls the covers off her head and sits up a little.
The way Hilly looked at me. Like I was trash on the road. Celia pulls a letter out from under the covers.
She billed me for her dress. In lieu of payment, she's asked that I send two-hundred dollars to the African Children's Fund and then she banned me from all future League events.
She don't count. Don't judge yourself by the way she see you.
I'm not right for this kind of life, Minny. I don't need a dinner table for twelve people.
I couldn't get two people over here if I begged. She called me a liar and accused me of getting her that pie. I wouldn't have thrown up if it wasn't for that! I can't do this anymore to Johnny. I'm going back to Sugar Ditch.
You gone leave your husband cause you threw up at some party? Celia sobs.
Lord, I reckon it's time you knew.
Miss Hilly thought you knew `bout "The Terrible Awful," that you were making fun a her. It's my fault she pounced on you. But if you leave Mister Johnny, then Miss Hilly done won the whole ball game. Then she done beat me, and she done beat you. Celia lies there. Minny's concerned she's said too much.
Thank you. For telling me that.
Hey, Honey.
Stuart! How are you calling me? Aren't you on the rig?
What if I told you I have twenty- four hours in New Orleans?
That I'm in the Presidential Suite of the Roosevelt Hotel...That we have dinner reservations in the Blue Room tonight and lunch tomorrow at Galatoires. Skeeter becomes troubled...
Did you hear me? I spoke to your dad, and he's gonna have Jameso drive you down right now.
Oh, Stuart.
What?
I have to work.
Work in the car. Jesus, Skeeter, it's a cleaning column.
I have a deadline, Sweetie. You should have asked me about this.
I'm trying to be romantic...
I'm sorry, Honey. I can't come. Stuart shakes his head and hangs up the phone.
I remember hiding with Miss Lilia in a steamer trunk while Yankee soldiers stomped through Master's house. We were both four. Eighty- five years later she died in my arms. We's were friends `til the end. Her grandson still pays my rent. Buys all my groceries too.
I have one more story to type, but other than that, we are done.
Law, look at all them pages. Two- hundred and sixty-six of `em.
Now we just wait and see? Hopin' Missus Stein publish it? Skeeter nods.
What story you got left to type?
Mine. Aibileen looks at Skeeter.
If your momma won't tell you, I reckon I will.
Have you been crying? You know that ages your skin, Dear.
Mother, I need to talk to you about Constantine.
Oh, Eugenia. That was so long ago.
Well, I have to speak to her.
Now, you look. I was good to Constantine. Oh, she talked back plenty of times, and I put up with it. But, Skeeter, she didn't give me a choice...
What...happened?
I was hosting a D.A.R. luncheon. Constantine was to do the floors that morning so they'd be dry in time. Charlotte finds Constantine mopping the foyer very slowly. The effects of arthritis are apparent.
Well, the floors were soaking wet when the first guest arrived. A guest unnecessarily grabs a table for balance, making a point about the damp floor...
As the guests sip coffee, each woman grimaces and turns to Charlotte.
Then, she burned the coffee. She had gotten so old, Skeeter. Charlotte shoots Constantine a look. Constantine nods sorrowfully. She picks up a woman's plate and begins filling it with food from the cart very slowly. Constantine strains to lower the plate in front of the woman. Her hands tremble.
Her mishaps were becoming a daily occurrence, and I had had it. The plate tilts causing peas to pour into the woman's lap.
Watch out! With that, Charlotte stands up and slaps the table with her hand.
Get a hold of yourself, Constantine! Constantine slowly looks to Charlotte. Totally exhausted, she grips the casserole cart with both hands to steady herself.
And that's when it happened. Constantine wets herself. Slowly the women begin realizing what's happening. The two women closest to Constantine gasp and quickly move away from her. Another woman rises from the table covering her mouth with a napkin and leaves the room. Just now realizing what has happened, Constantine looks down at her soiled dress. No one says a word. No one comes to Constantine's aid. Constantine looks to Charlotte.
I told her she couldn't work here anymore and to go on home.
How could you humiliate her like that?!
I didn't mean to.
Why didn't you help her?
I was upset. I didn't know what else to do.
So you just threw her away? That woman did you the biggest favor of your life. She taught me kindness and self respect and you just threw her away like a broken appliance. Charlotte starts to cry. Skeeter isn't affected.
I didn't throw her away, Skeeter. Your daddy went to her house the very next day to give her her job back. But she had already moved to Chicago. Left everything behind.
`Cause she didn't have anything anymore. You broke her heart!
Please don't do this to me, Skeeter. I feel terrible. And you have to remember, they're not like us. They are different. Charlotte gets defensive.
And you idolized her too much! You always have!
I needed somebody to look up to. Skeeter turns to leave.
I have to go find her. She needs me.
We finally found the address of her daughter in Chicago...so we sent Carlton up there to go get Constantine. Skeeter turns back to her mother.
And?
When he got there...she was dead, Eugenia. I'm so sorry, Honey. Charlotte tries to comfort her. Skeeter rejects her mother's hand.
Why didn't y'all tell me all this?
I knew you'd blame me...when it wasn't my fault. It just happened, and it was so unfortunate. I'm sorry, Eugenia.
When did she die? How long had she been in Chicago?
Two weeks. Skeeter stands, never turning as she exits.
Constantine's story finally made it in our book. But the reason she got fired did not. Miss Skeeter just couldn't put that kind a shame on her own mother.
They printed a few thousand copies with the worst advance Miss Stein had ever seen. The stack is "The Help," in hardcover. It's wrapped in pale blue. A white peace dove spreads its wing under the title.
We got four hundred dollars. Got another four hundred when it got printed. Divided thirteen ways that came to sixty-one fifty-three a person. Minny hugs Sugar and runs out the screen door with her check as the chicken sizzles.
Minny got so excited she burnt up a skillet of chicken.
Come on, Miss Celia! Get out a that bed and let me in. It's twelve noon. I did all the shopping just like you asked. The door slowly opens. Celia steps out onto the porch, looking beautiful, still dressed tacky.
Well, look at you, Miss Celia.
What's all this?
I cooked it all by myself. I wanted to do something special. I wanted to say "thank you."
Greens got just the right amount a hock taste to `em. That's a good pot liquor, Miss Celia. Who taught you to cook like this? Minny winks as she dunks a piece of corn bread in the greens.
Corn bread's happy now. Celia lays down her fork.
Are you happy, Minny?
Why you ask such a funny question?
Are you?
A course I's happy. You happy too. Big house, big yard, good husband.
You know, if I were you, I'd give it right back to him. I'd hit him over the head with a skillet and tell him to go straight to hell... Minny starts to protest but is tired of excuses.
Maybe I will. Celia jumps up.
I almost forgot the dessert. Minny smiles softly as Celia disappears into the kitchen.
Five, four, three, two, one.
Welcome back to "People Will Talk." And do we have something to talk about. Jolene has quite a book to review. Jolene shakes her head, visibly upset.
Why are you frowning, Jolene? Hilly leans over and taps her television.
You don't look cute that way.
It's called "The Help." A new book by an anonymous author. Aibileen jerks her head toward the television.
Touching and enlightening, it's filled with testimonials from Mississippi's own housekeepers.
Look how cute that dress is.
Takes place in the fictional town of "Niceville." The book is dedicated to C and T. If you're out there C and T, we'd love to have you on the show because Niceville sounds like Jackson, if you ask me. The host starts laughing. Jolene snaps.
It's not Jackson! It's a disgrace to the South! A disgrace to good Southern women who've spent their lives taking care of their help.
Smoke rises from the shirt Aibileen is ironing. She snaps to attention, pulls the iron off the burned shirt.
But did you read that ending?
I know I personally treat my help like family, and every one of my friends does the same.
Do not buy this book! Ladies of Jackson, do not support slander with your husband's hard earned- Poof! Jolene disappears by way of a Seal-Lily ice cream commercial.
Don't cut her off like that.
What's that book called, Aibileen?
I...I wasn't paying attention.
She races to the register like a teen buying a Playboy.
I knew nothing about it. Miss Stein's P.R. Department called the station directly.
Ever maid callin' to say they white lady's gone and bought the book. They so scared.
`One-arm-Earnestine' said Miss Leefolt brought a copy over to Miss Hilly in less than a hour. She better read it quick and start the "this ain't Jackson crusade."
Don't count on it. In her one year at Ole Miss she never cracked a book.
Oh, she gone read it. Especially after that man made such a stink on the tee-vee. She gone read it.
They stop and nod with speculation.
As she turns a page, her face reveals a dawning realization. Troubled, she starts to wake Robert but doesn't. Charlotte trembles as she brings the book in close to her chest. She slides down to her pillow and stares at the ceiling.
That month felt like a year. I missed you so much.
Me, too.
Skeeter, I told Daddy I'm not going back on the rig. Stuart nonchalantly pulls out a ring from his front pocket and places it in Skeeter's lap. A huge diamond is surrounded by twelve small sapphires. Skeeter's smile quickly fades as she raises the ring.
Stuart...I have to tell you something.
How about "yes?!" I had this with me down in New Orleans, you know. Skeeter touches Stuart's face.
I'm serious...and...you have to promise not to tell anyone.
Hang on. Did you say `yes'?
Yes. Stuart hugs Skeeter. She pulls back.
But listen. Can I have your word? Skeeter has again ruined Stuart's big moment.
Sure. You have my word.
This is what you've been writing for the last twelve months?! What happened to the cleaning column?
I did both.
So, the talk in town? I said they were dead wrong. Told them you were too smart to get mixed up in anything like that. Skeeter reaches to calm him. He pulls away.
That joke you played on Hilly with the toilets. Hell, that's funny. But this? I don't understand why you did this...why you even care.
What?
Things are fine around here. Why stir up trouble?
I'm not stirring up trouble, Stuart. Trouble's already here.
I guess it is. Skeeter grabs his arm.
I had to tell you. You needed to know. Stuart shakes his head and pulls away...
I guess I don't really know you, Skeeter. And I can't marry somebody I don't know. Stuart looks down at the ring.
That was my grandmother's. Skeeter hands the ring back. Stuart shoves it in his pocket.
Don't worry. I won't tell anyone.
Just leave.
Skeeter?! Come in here, please. After a few moments, Skeeter enters.
You okay? Can I get you anything?
Come here, Eugenia. I want to tell you something.
Me, too.
You go first.
Stuart proposed.
Finally!
You knew?
Of course. He had to ask Daddy for your hand. She lifts Skeeter's ring hand. Seeing her bare finger, Charlotte's smile fades. Skeeter prepares for the worst.
Just say it.
What did you do?!
Nothing! Skeeter stands to walk away.
Young lady, I'm talking to you! Skeeter sits back down...
Stuart'll come around. It's a funny dance.  Took this one a year. Anyway, my news. After a long talk with your daddy, I've made a decision. My health's been on the uptick these past few weeks. And I know the doctor says it's some kind of last
But, as I said, I made a decision. I have decided not to die.
Oh, Momma. Charlotte slaps her palms as if throwing the cancer away.
Too late. I tried calling Fanny Mae's so I could make your hair appointments for the next twenty years, but they wouldn't allow it. Charlotte raises Skeeter's ring finger.
I certainly can't leave you now. Skeeter laughs and hugs her mother. Robert never stirs.
The voters of Hinds County had spoke. Mister Holbrook wasn't gone have no political career. One-Arm Ernestine races to the storefront and removes William's campaign poster taped to the window.
Momma, there's a white man at our door!
Minny Jackson! Are you in there?! Minny covers the girls with a blanket. She puts on a robe and grabs a bat from behind the door.
I can hear you. Open the door.
Who there?
Johnny Foote. Minny Jackson, I want to talk to you. Open up. Minny slowly opens the door. Johnny is all smiles.
Finally, I meet Minny Jackson... As Johnny enters, Minny raises the bat and swings. Johnny turns and stops the bat with his hand.
What the hell are you doin'?! Minny lets go of the bat and cowers on the floor, raises her hands in front of her.
Please don't hurt me! My babies are in the house. Johnny drops the bat and pulls Minny up from the floor.
Calm down, girl. I'm not here to get you.
When I finally confronted Celia about you, she told me about the baby. All of them. You saved her life.
I don't know about that.
Well, I know the day you came to our house, she started getting better. And I'm not just talking about the cookin' either.
You knew I was there?
Fried chicken and okra on the first night? Y'all should have at least put corn pone on the table.
I couldn't make you eat anymore corn pone, Mister Johnny.
Next morning, I snuck back up to the house, peeked in the window, and there you were. Given ol' Oscar a wipe down. Minny smiles for the first time.
So I ain't losing my job?
You have a job with us for the rest of your life, if you want it.
Aibileen nervously pours coffee.
I heard that Betty character might be Charlene.
It's not Jackson, and that book is garbage. I bet the whole thing's made up by some nigra. Aibileen begins pouring coffee into Hilly's cup.
Well, yes...But that's not odd is it? Happens all the time, right? A sudden realization washes over Jolene.
The book is NOT ABOUT JACKSON! Aibileen spills a few drops of coffee on Hilly's plate. Hilly looks up to Aibileen slow and deliberate.
You spilled some, Aibileen. Aibileen takes the cloth from the coffee pitcher handle and dabs the spilled coffee. Aibileen glances at Hilly. A secret burns between them.
Get me a new plate. One you haven't soiled with a dirty cloth.
We late? Looks like Bible study done already started.
No. We ain't late.
Who we clappin' for? The woman laughs.
Honey, we clappin' for you. The woman raises a copy of "The Help." Aibileen notices a copy of the book in each member's hand. Aibileen looks to Minny, realizing she's in on it. A REVEREND approaches, hands Aibileen a copy of the book.
Aibileen, this is an important time for you and our church. We know you couldn't put your name in here, so we all signed our own. The Reverend then hands her a box wrapped in white paper, tied with a blue ribbon.
This is for the white lady. Tell her we love her like family.
Churches over two counties signed our books. All for you and me. Aibileen points to the inside back cover.
Doctor King signed it, too. He readin' our book. Aibileen glances proudly at the framed portrait of Dr. King.
We did something. We did something good.
It's beautiful. Skeeter closes the book and sets it down regretfully.
What's wrong? Skeeter pulls a letter out of her purse.
I got a job offer from Harper and Row...in New York.
Congratulations!
That real good, Miss Skeeter.
I not taking it. I just wanted to share it with you both. There's no one else I can tell.
What you mean you not takin' it? This is what you been dreaming of.
I can't leave you two right when things are getting bad from a mess I created. I set out to write a book to make white people thankful. But in the end, what we should say is "sorry."
If bad things happen, they ain't nothing you can do about it. And if they happen, at least now theys a reason behind it. A reason we can wrap our heads around and be proud of... Skeeter nods with little relief.
Now, I don't mean to rub salt in your wound, but...you ain't got a good life here in Jackson. Plus, your momma's getting better- Minny aggressively chimes in.
You ain't got nothing left here but enemies in the Junior League. You done burned ever bridge there is. And you ain't never gone get another man in this town, and ever body know it. So don't walk your white butt to New York, RUN IT! Minny leans over, placing her hand on Skeeter's for the first time since knowing each other.
And you listen to me. I'm on take care a Aibileen, and she gone take care a me. Skeeter nods.
Go find your life, Miss Skeeter.
What are you doing here? Hilly screams and throws her lit cigarette at Skeeter.
Don't you get an inch closer! Hilly's a mess. Her shirt is half tucked. Her shorts strain to contain a newly developed layer of fat. A horrible fever blister burns hot on Hilly's upper lip.
I've contacted my lawyer, Hibbie Goodman. He's the best libel attorney in Mississippi. You're in big trouble, Missy. And you're going to jail.
You can't prove anything, Hilly.
I one-hundred-percent know you wrote it `cause nobody else in town is as tacky as you. Those nigras of yours are in a lifetime of trouble.
Exactly who are you talking about? You don't know anything.
I don't, do I? You tell Aibileen, the next time she wants to write about my dear friend Elizabeth...uh- huh. Remember her? Had you in her wedding? Let's just say, Aibileen ought to've been a little bit smarter before putting in the L- shaped crack in poor Elizabeth's dining table. And that nigra, Minny? Do I have plans for her.
Careful, Hilly. Don't give yourself away now.
That was not me WHO ATE THAT PIE! Hilly storms up the porch steps. Skeeter follows.
I did not invite you here! Skeeter yanks Hilly's arm hard.
I've come to tell your mother what a hippie you've become. She's gonna be disgusted by you. Skeeter can't help but laugh.
You're telling my mother on me? Hilly opens the door. Skeeter grabs her. They struggle.
You get out of here! Charlotte suddenly appears. Skeeter lets go of Hilly.
Why, Hilly...It's been such a long time, Dear. Everything okay, you two? Hilly is shocked by Charlotte's frail appearance.
Missus Phelan, I'm...I'm here to-
Hilly, you're a mess. Are you ill? Hilly self-consciously licks her fever blister.
Well, I...I didn't have time to get fixed up before-
Darling, no husband wants to come home and see this. Charlotte peers closely at Hilly's cold sore.
And that...that is horrendous.
Missus Phelan, I'm here-
You know, Hilly. If I didn't know any better, I'd say you've been eating too many...SWEETS? Hilly's face turns purple with embarrassment. Charlotte moves in for the kill.
In fact. I'm sure of it. Now GET OUT OF MY HOUSE...before we all get one of those on our lip. Hilly looks back and forth between Skeeter and her mother, not knowing what to say. Hilly runs out of the house as Charlotte sashays quietly into the living room. Shocked, Skeeter stands alone in the foyer. Hilly sprays gravel across the Phelan yard as she speeds away.
Eugenia?
Yes, Ma'am.
Come in here, please. Skeeter gulps as she heads toward the living room.
Ma'am?
Do you have plans tomorrow? Bible study? Anything like that?
No, Ma'am.
Good. We're going shopping. Skeeter lets out a big sigh of relief.
`Cause no single daughter of mine is going to New York, representing the great state of Mississippi, without a proper cosmopolitan wardrobe.
What?
I'm very proud of you, Eugenia.
How do you know about New York?
A friend of Constantine's told me. Charlotte reaches down and pulls up her copy of "The Help".
Would you do me the honor of signing my copy? Skeeter nods. Charlotte hands Skeeter a pen. Her hand trembles as she signs the book, never having guessed how good it would feel.
They fired Leroy last night! And when Leroy ask why, his boss say Mister Holbrook told him to do it. Said his nigger wife the reason.
Oh, Law!
He try to kill me with he bare hands! He threw the kids in the yard, lock me in the bathroom, and say he gone set the house on fire.
Where are you now?!
The gas station. I climbed out the window, and we all ran here.
I'm on come there now.
Wait, Aibileen...I'm pregnant.
Minny, now, you listen to me. That baby gone be fine, and you ain't never gone lose your job. Mister Johnny told you that hisself. They's more book money coming. Your baby ain't gone know about gettin' beat. You hear me? You free, Minny! You are free. Minny lets out a chuckle of relief and wipes her eyes.
You hear me?
I hear you... The Leefolt front door opens. Elizabeth calls out.
Aibileen?
Good morning. Hilly licks her cold sore as she steps forward. She glides her hand across the L-shaped crack in the Elizabeth's table, drawing Aibileen's attention to it.
Aibileen, the silver I lent Elizabeth last week.
It not polished good? Humidity been fighting me on polishing day.
When you returned it, three pieces were missing out of the felt wrapper. A fork and two spoons.
Lemme...lemme go look in the kitchen, maybe I left some behind.
You know as well as I do that silver's not in the kitchen. Aibileen turns to Elizabeth.
You check in Mae Mobley's bed? She been putting things-
Do you hear her, Elizabeth? She's trying to blame it on a toddler. Elizabeth won't look at Aibileen.
I ain't stole no silver. Elizabeth whispers to Hilly.
She says she doesn't have them.
Then it behooves me to inform you that you are fired, Aibileen. And I'll be calling the police. They know me. Mae Mobley enters the room.
Aibee, my froat hurts. Mae Mobley coughs.
I go get her some syrup, Miss Leefolt.
Elizabeth can take care of her child. Elizabeth looks to Hilly, appearing somewhat upset with this suggestion.
I'll go get the couch syrup. Hilly glares at Aibileen as Elizabeth runs down the hall.
I won't tolerate liars! Mae Mobley becomes scared and hides behind Aibileen's leg.
I didn't steal no silver.
I'm not talking about silver. I'm talking about those things you wrote about Elizabeth. Maybe I can't send you to jail for what you wrote, but I can send you to jail for being a thief. And your friend, Minny? That nigra's got a nice surprise coming to her. Johnny Foote listens to what I say. She's as good as- Aibileen shouts, interrupting Hilly.
Woman!...I know something about you. Don't you forget that. Hilly narrows her eyes.
From what Yule May says, they's a lot a time to write letters from jail. Plenty a time to write ever person in Jackson the truth about you, and the paper is free.
Nobody would believe something you wrote.
I don't know. Already sold a lot a books. Fear floods into Hilly's eyes.
Get out of here!
Don't go, Aibiee! Aibileen kneels down as Elizabeth returns with the syrup.
Baby, you need to get back to bed. You got a fever.
Noooo! Don't go, Aibee. Please don't leave.
I gots to, Baby. I am so sorry.
Why? Are you going to take care of another little girl?
No, Baby, that's not the reason. I don't want to leave you, but...It's time for me to retire. You my last little girl.
Noooo!
Baby Girl, I need you to remember ever thing I told you. Okay? Do you remember what I told you?
To wipe my bottom good?
No, Baby. The other. What you are.
You is kind. You is smart. You is important.
That's right, Baby Girl. Aibileen squeezes Mae Mobley for the last time. They both cry together. Hilly speaks up.
You need to go now, Aibileen! Aibileen rises up from Mae Mobley and turns to Elizabeth.
Give my sweet girl a chance. Elizabeth avoids eye contact. Aibileen turns and walks away. As Elizabeth leans down to pick up Mae Mobley....HER WATER BREAKS. She glares at Hilly with shock and regret.
Mae Mobley runs to the living room window crying. She beats on the glass from inside.
Aibeeeee! Don't go! Aibileen never turns.
Mae Mobley was my last baby. In just thirty minutes, I felt like my whole life was done. Of the thirteen maids, seven of us got fired. Several other maids got fired who had nothin' to do with our book. Guess our stories weren't so unique after all...But, like Minny, we was all free.
And we's was a lot freer than Hilly Holbrook. She comes across a piece from Celia Foote addressed to The Starving Children of Africa Fund. A smug smile forms. She opens the envelope to find a check for $200.00 made out to: TWO-SLICE HILLY! Hilly screams as she rips the check into pieces.
Ever so often, we all get a nice piece of book money in the mail. `Manna from heaven' we like to call it. Minny looks across the table and smiles at Celia who is holding and playing with Minny's newborn child.
Born December 24th 1883 Died March 15th, 1963 A bouquet of flowers lay at the foot of the tombstone. A copy of "The Help" leans against it. In the distance, a cab slowly pulls away with Skeeter inside.
Thousands of our books went out all over the world. We had got paid to tell the truth and we just couldn't believe it... Aibileen takes this last page out of the typewriter and places it behind two hundred other typed out pages. She looks up to the framed picture of Treelore and rises from the table with pride.
