10/1/91 PINK 10/14/91 YELLOW 10/25/91 GREEN 10/31/91 GOLDENROD *11/7/91 BUFF
Mister Foreman, have you arrived at a verdict?
We have, your honor.  We find the defendant guilty of all the charges.
Your honor, may I approach the bench?
What's going on?  "Guilty"!  What is this?
I got your bail continued.
Bail, for Chrissake!  I'm innocent!
Mister LaPlante, I have been persuaded in view of your continued employment and your lack of prior convictions, to continue your bail under the same conditions heretofore, pending sentencing six days from now.  In the meantime you will make an appointment with the probation officer who will make a recommendation to me regarding your sentence.  I urge you to use these six days to set your personal affairs in order in anticipation of incarceration.
"Anticipation of incarceration"?
 He means prison, Mr. LaPlante.
I know what he means.  I'm not a prison kinda guy, Miss O'Day.  I'm a goddamn working man for Chrissake!  Maybe I "augment" my income a little with some "business deals," maybe summa the guys I sell to are crooks, how would I know, I'm not an investigator.  You can't make it on a wage no more, not in this country.
I think our best course right now would be to focus on the Probation Officer's report...
He gives a good report and I walk?
We can hope.  You still have your job, right?
Yeah, I been calling in sick.  They think I got the flu.
And a son by your ex-wife?  Joseph.
A son, yeah.  What about him?  Joey.
Are you pretty involved in his upbringing?
Involved!  Christ!  She attached my goddamn paycheck!  Child support. Why do you think I can't afford a lawyer?  You know what I mean.  Why I got a court appointed lawyer instead of a, uh, more experienced...
I understand.  How often do you see your son?
Often, uh.
How recently?
Uh, his birthday, uh, May.  I think.
It's November.
 She don't like me to see him. Says I'm a bad influence.
I think you should visit your son. And try and get your boss to write a note about your performance on the job.  You need to create the impression of a responsible, decent citizen with familial responsibilities who happened to slip up once.
 Uh, I know you're having financial difficulties, Mister LaPlante, but I wonder if... I mean, the money I loaned you...
Some of it.  Right here.  I got some of it.  I'll get the rest as soon as I can.
 I know things are difficult for you, Mister LaPlante.  I don't want to take your last dime...
Right.  I better keep some if I'm gonna see the kid.  For gas and stuff.
Wow!  Look at that one!
If you were in there, he'd kill you, wouldn't he...Dad?
Yeah, yeah, something like that.
This guy, this "friend" your mother's seeing, he's a fireman, huh?  He ever... spend the night, whatsisname?
Sometimes.  His name's Elliot.  He saved a guy's life one time.  In a fire.
Oh yeah?  A hero, huh?  Was he in the 'Nam, this guy Elliot?
"The Nomm"?  What's that?
It was this war.  Viet Nam.  Doesn't matter.
Were you in it?  In the war?
You never saw that picture, huh?
What picture?
Me in my uniform.  Used to be on the bookcase.
Whatcha gotta do there, buddy, is ya gotta get in close so ya don't piss on yer shoes. It don't matter now cause you're wearin' them sneakers but the time's gonna come when you're gonna be wearin' good shoes, expensive ones, and you don't wanna piss on them, you wanna protect 'em.  From piss, from tough guys, from everything.
What I don't like about public restrooms is how you're always standing in piss.  It don't matter to you, you got those sneakers but I'm standing in piss in very expensive shoes.  It's a breakdown in custodial services.
Are you gonna take me somewhere next weekend?
I'm working on that.  It's just I got some business problems and... whatsa matter?
Somebody lost a wallet.
You give it to the manager, he pockets the dough, throws the wallet away.  Most people who work in supervisory positions... I'm not saying all... are crooks.
Excuse me, sir, could you spare...?
No way, lady, not a chance.
You gotta resist the urge to be nice to those people, they're con artists, they take advantage of the soft heart.  A lot of 'em are financially better off than the rest of us.
What I'm gonna do on this wallet thing is, Monday, day after tomorrow, I'm gonna have my secretary phone this guy up from the name on his driver's license Let the guy come and get his wallet and make sure you get a reward. You deserve a reward.  You want one, doncha?  A reward?  Gwan, get in.
Whatcha gotta do, you gotta look out for number one.  It sounds harsh, but it's a goddamn (excuse the vulgarity) jungle out there, kid.  That's why you gotta keep a low profile!  Right?  A low profile! It's where you don't give nobody nothin' to shoot at, stay outta sight, be parta the woodwork, don't ever tell 'em your name, they'll use it against you.
Here.  Get off here.
 Thanks.  Thanks, pal.
Listen, buddy, I'm really enjoying this relationship we got going here. I been missing out on not knowing you better.  Thing is, I got all this business stuff...
I could go to a movie Thursday night.  'Cause we don't have school on Friday.
Here we are.  Yeah, that's a possibility.  A movie.  Now you gwan in, tell your mother I got you back on time.  Point that out to her. She was always on my case for stuff like that.  She's still like that, right?
 Yeah.  I'll see ya... dad.
Bernie!  Where ya been, Pal?
Some guys been looking for me, Chick?  Spanish kinda guys.
Spanish kinda guys!
Business thing.  Gimme a seven and seven, willya?
What is it, five days now I don't see you!
'Cause I'm up to my ass in shit is why.  I'm broke, plus I got legal problems... Nobody was asking for me, huh?
Nope.  Legal problems, you gotta have a good attorney.
My attorney, she's just outta law school, about a couple of years older than my kid, for Chrissake.
You gotta kid?  How old's your kid?
Nine.  I think.  Maybe ten.  Yeah, ten.  Nice kid.
You got a ten year old attorney, Bernie?
I can't afford no better.  My ex, she attached my pay check for child support payments.  You looking for Bernie LaPlante by any chance?
I didn't even know you had a kid.
 The thing about kids is, they're so... young!  They don't know nothin' yet.  When you're a kid, you think you're gonna grow up an' be a "wonderful person" instead of an asshole, like everybody else.
We're all assholes, Bernie?
 When I was a kid, I thought I was gonna be this fantastic wonderful heroic human being.
You Bernie Planta?
LaPlante.  Bernie LaPlante.  You the guys Bunny called, huh?
Three hours is old, man.  Very old.
Hey, he might not of reported 'em at all yet.  He might not know for a couple hours.
You pick his pocket?
Yeah, more or less.  Trust me, these are very very fresh.
To be honest, I can't make sense of it either, Ms. Gayley. Things seem to be on the upswing, our differences with the SEC have been favorably resolved.  In a business sense, I believe we've "turned the corner..."
Mister Broadman, your wife and children are on their way here as we speak.  Don't you think -- ?
I feel I've done very well in life: good health, wonderful family, much wealth.  I guess what we're talking about here is a kind of despair.  I just have the feeling that everything from here on is going to be... downhill... At a time like this, I think I'm entitled, as the saying goes, to "look out for number one" and put my own needs first.  That pretty much concludes what I have to say. Thanks for coming out here to let me talk to you and your viewers.
Oh my god!  Chucky, tilt down.
Did you get it? (then, doubly horrified) Jesus, did I say that?
Yeah, I got it.  Sports training. You learn to follow the ball.  How about you do a wrap-up from up here?  I'll pan off that skyscraper over there, find you here, then reveal the drop.
 Suicide number 137 of this year in this city was neither a destitute nor a lonely man, but a successful executive with a loving family and forty million dollars in the bank.  If there's nameless "despair" in executive offices, what can there be sixty stories below where the hungry and the homeless, the brutalized and the addicted, fight their daily battle for survival.  From a ledge sixty stories above the street, I'm Gale Gayley for Channel Four News.
Whadja think of the fall shot, Chief?  The guy drops twenty stories in perfect focus, center frame while I go smoothly from F16 to F5.6.
Helluva shot, Chucky, beautiful. (pulling out the video tape) Parker, run this down to Frazier, tell him we open with it at six, eleven and at seven a.m....
Hi, Chief.  You like the suicide?
Never reach out!
Hello, Mister Wallace.
 He's right.  It's unprofessional.
 If you reach out, you could get pulled over yourself.
What're we talking about?  Reach out for what?
I told them how you were upset we didn't save the guy...
Saving people is not our job.  It's as wrong to step in and save someone as it would be to push someone off.
You wouldn't push the guy, would you?
I didn't say I thought we should have saved him..
You didn't?
I said I wished it had at least occurred to me to consider saving him.
What good would that do?
It would make me feel like a human being instead of a cynical, hardbitten newswoman.  Besides it wouldn't be a bad story, would it, "Newswoman Saves Suicide?"
Unprofessional.
You just can't bear the idea of good news.
You're sitting on your ticket.
Ticket!  What's going on?
She's flying to New York.  She's been nominated for a Silver Mike...
A Silver Mike!  You're covering us in glory!
I haven't won it yet. (studying ticket, to Deakins) I notice you've got me scheduled on a flight back an hour after the ceremony.
An hour after...!  Deak, for Heaven's sake!  Let's give her a night in New York City.  We'll put her and her boyfriend up at a good hotel...
She broke up with her boyfriend.  Listen, babe, we needja back. You gotta follow up on the jumper, find the human interest in the grim, unending tale of woe that pours from the wounded heart of the heartless metropolis.
The story behind the story, the ugly scandal behind the falling millionaire, the dirt, you mean.
That too.
 Would the station put me up at a good hotel...?
 Absolutely!
Okay, hell with it.  Party hearty... is that what they say?  I'll figure something out.  She's just pretending she's a person.  She's really a reporter. Fifty bucks she's on the first flight back.
You know what I don't get?  I don't get why a guy who's gonna jump asks to talk to a TV reporter?
Cause how's he gonna know he's jumped if it's not on the six o'clock news.
 Hey!  Do I have a record?  Have I ever done time?  I mean I been arrested a few times, who hasn't? Parking tickets for Chrissake! Suspicion of stuff!  Have I ever been convicted of anything?
Mister LaPlante...
Take a look at my employment record, you got my employment record there, right?  You see any unemployment there, any welfare? I'm a taxpayer.  They eat me alive, the tax people, they got taxes on everything, taxes, taxes, taxes, and forms!  Taxes and forms so I can pay your goddamn salary, so you can sit there and write stuff, guys like me pay your wages...
Mister LaPlante...
Do I hit anybody?  You see me shoot anybody?  Hey, drugs!  Do I sell drugs?  Jesus, I don't belong in prison.  I'm a family man.
Mister LaPlante...
Look, I got this kid.  We got a goddamn relationship!  I'm takin' him to a movie tonight!  He worships me.  If I go down what's this do to my son?  I'm his goddamn role model for Christ sake!
Listen, if I coulda afforded an experienced attorney, I woulda walked.  It was a shitty case, very circumstantial.  You gonna send me downstate for having an inexperienced lawyer?  How you gonna feel about the system if you do that?
Thank you, very much.  I'm grateful for this.  Since you're all colleagues here, you know what kind of a team it takes... to put a story on a screen.  I don't have to explain to you how much the cameraman, the editor, the assignment editor and the news director, to mention a few did to get me this award.
This is an onion. (dramatic pause, then...) It's a metaphor for a news story. Only a few hours ago I was standing on a ledge sixty stories above a street interviewing a man who subsequently jumped to his death. Forty million dollars in the bank, happily married, good health.  Great story!
 There's gotta be more.  We're pros, right?  Some kinda extramarital hanky panky, maybe?  Another good story! (she peels another layer of onion) Maybe the guy's been accused of child molesting.  Terrific story! (she peels more off the onion) Then it turns out the accusation was false.  Wonderful!  More story.
 Maybe the alleged mistress was lying, setting the guy up. Sensational story! (the onion is very small) We keep going, keep digging, keep investigating.  We expose the guy's whole life, his family. Why?  Because we're pros! Because... (she pauses dramatically) we're looking for the truth!
But what if, after all our digging, after all our painstaking investigation, what if it turns out there wasn't any truth?  Just stories!  One story after another, one layer, then another layer, until there's nothing left.  And if it's like that, do we have any. obligation to stop at any point? Or do we just keep going, digging, digging, digging, peeling, peeling, peeling, until we've peeled it all away, until we've destroyed what we were investigating in the first place?
I'll bet all of you, like me, yearn for just one story that isn't about uncovering layer after layer of human weakness; a story that reveals with each new layer of investigation, something finer and nobler, something even... inspirational.
First rule out here on the streets is you gotta watch out for number one.  If you go down... break a bone or something... you're gone! Nobody's gonna pick you up.'
Shitty color!  Looka the skin tones.
Chrissake!  Homeless people are supposed to have shitty skin tones. Look!
There you go!  Skin tones!  Listen, you gotta fish or cut bait.  I wouldn't even do this if I didn't have these legal problems.  Two fifty.  That's it.  I gotta get outta here, I gotta take my kid to the movies tonight, I'm late.
I'll go two hundred.
Two hundred!  How about a jacket? Wanna buy me a jacket?
It's very nice actually. (reading the inscription) "For Excellence in the Pursuit of Truth."  Uh, listen, I just wanted you to know I got a seat back on the early flight after all so... What?
What do you mean you gave it to Conklin?  Conklin wasn't on that ledge!  Conklin wasn't...
Gale, you were gonna do the town, remember?  Fancy suite at the station's expense, see a show, get laid maybe.  What was I supposed to do?
Okay, okay, you get back tonight, doll, and I'll take Conklin off your suicide.  Fly carefully... and congratulations on the award.
What'd I tell ya!  They're all like that, the good ones.  They're junkies for the story.  They can't let go.
Thank you.  Very much.
There's another credit card on the floor.
Thanks.
I know why it's raining.  I coulda predicted this.  It's raining because my wipers are fucked up. If my wipers were okay, the fucking sun would be shining right now. At night!
Damn!
Ladies and Gentlemen, this is your Captain.  We're experiencing a high reading on one of our indicators. Ten to one, it's a malfunction in a gauge, but just as a precaution I'm going to ask you to fasten your seat belts while the Flight Attendants run through some safety procedures with you.  I apologize for the necessity and the inconvenience.
First make sure your seat belts are fastened securely.  Then brace your arms against the seat ahead at you like this.  You can use pillows or blankets...
 Mommy, what's going on?
Everything's going to be fine, honey.
-- when you reach the bottom of the chute you should immediately move as far away from the plane as possible in the event of a fire on the aircraft.
Those of you who can should help others who may be unable to move quickly.
I'm late already!  Don't quit on me now, for Chrissake!  This ain't the time!
Come on, come on !
Now what?
Hey!  Help!  Somebody!  Help.
Please!  Help us.  We're stuck. Hello!  Anybody!
Whatsa problem, pal?
Somebody give me a hand.
We're on fire.
Let's stay calm, everybody. Everybody, stay calm, please. Please stay calm.  Everything will be all right if we stay calm. Somebody give me a hand with this door.
Help the people around you, everybody.  Please help each other.
I... I can't move.  I'm caught.
Hold on there, hold on there.  Just a minute.
Daddy!  Daddy!  Daddy, wake up!
Keep calm!  Everybody, keep calm.
Someone's coming!
Help us!  Help, please.
Hold on, buddy.  I got hundred dollar shoes here.
Jesus Christ!
Help us, please.  We can't get out.
Push it!  You gotta push hard.
Whaddaya doing?
Harder.  Push it harder.
Again!  Harder.  Come on.
 I'm... pushing... it, buddy.
Harder!
I'm... pushing... it... asshole!
THERE'S A GUY OPENING THE DOOR. HE'S OPENING IT!
Once you're outside, immediately move as far away from the aircraft as you can.  If you see someone who needs help...
Please, everybody, one at a time. Please, one at a time.
Please, Miss, my father can't move. He can't move.
We'll try and help him, you wait outside.  Get as far away from the plane as you can.
Don't stop!
You gonna bUy me a new pair a shoes, pal?
Dad!  Dad!
Sir!  Please, sir.  Sir, my father can't move.
He's in there!  He's hurt!
In there?  Listen, kid, the cops are coming... and the firemen. They, uh, they got equipment and stuff for this kindathing, they're, uh, experts.
Please, sir!  Please!  It's on fire. He can't move.
Where is he?
Inside!  He's in the plane, he...
I know he's inside.  Which way? What's his name?
Sir, you can't go back in.  Sir, you're blocking passengers.  Sir, no...
Jesus Christ!
Hey, somebody, grab him, willya? Help this guy, willya, goddamnit!
Get him away from the plane, help him.
There's  a woman back there.  She's caught.
Get as far away from the plane as you can.
MISTER FLETCHER!  HEY, MISTER FLETCHER!  MISTER FLETCHER, HEY BUDDY, WHERE ARE YA, GODDAMNIT?
FLETCHER!  HEY  HEY, FLETCHER, SPEAK UP, WILL YA?  DON'T BE AN ASSHOLE!
Fletcher?
Shit!
My leg's caught.
Can you... can you get me out of here?
Yeah, sure.  I think.
Okay, lady.  You gotta make an effort here.  I don't happen to be a goddamn bodybuilder.
Get away from the plane quickly. It may explode.
Gimme a  hand, willya, honey?
GET 'EM BACK!  GET 'EM BACK!
DAD!  OH, DAD!
Son!  Thank God!  I couldn't find you.  I was terrified... terrified.
 You too, miss!  Right away!
I've lost  lost count.  I think  everybody's out.
HEY, FLETCHER!  SPEAK UP, WILL YA?
HEY  FLETCHER!
Here!  Over here!  Help me, please.
Where the  hell are ya, buddy?
Over here.  My leg's broken (cough cough).  I need help.
Fletcher, right?
Aaaaaaaah!  Smith!
You're not Fletcher?
Please help me.  My name's Smith.
I'm looking for Fletcher!  HEY, FLETCHER!
Shit!
Don't leave me.  Please don't leave me.
Awright, awright.
Don't count yer chickens here, Smith.  I can't see shit.
You've gotta come outta there, miss. Right now!  This thing's gonna go.
There's another...
 RIGHT GODDAMN NOW!  COME ON!
HEY!  GIMME A HAND HERE.  HEY YOU! IN THE BUNNY SUIT.
I'll help him, buddy, you run for it.
I gat this guy, you go get the guy who's still in there.
Get out of here, pal, she's gonna blow.
You're not goin' in?  There's a guy in there!  You got a fucking suit.
SHE'S GONNA EXPLODE, YOU DUMB SHIT.
HURRY 'UP, BUDDY!
COME ON, YOU STUPID SHIT!
I LOST MY GODDAMN SHOE!
Holy shit!
 Tight on fire, yes, yes, pulling back, flame everywhere, find survivors backlit in orange glow, yes, yes, yes, awesome, major award, cameraman of the year,go Chucky,go, baby, how you shoot it.
Sorry, pal.  Woooo!  What a way to go!
I'm okay.  Please, I'm okay, I'm a reporter, I...OW!
Lady, you're not okay.
Miss, please, you've got a broken arm.
It's my leg.  My leg hurts...  CHUCKY!  OVER HERE, CHUCKY!  CHUCKY!
Holy shit!  It's Gayley!
Gayley!  You were on the plane?
This is my story, Conk.  I did the research.
Please, she's injured, she's gotta go to the hospital...
Get the Flight Attendant, the one who manned the door.  Also some guy, a passenger, pulled me out. Talk to him. Then get down to the hospital and I'll do an interview and an intro and close.  Make sure...
She's a real piece of work! Unbelievable!  "It's 'my story, I did the research."
You're not going to believe the shot I got back there.  Major Awards!
Christ!  My car!  Where's my car?
Huh?  Hurt?  What?
 Hey, I don't need no ambulance. I'm just looking for my car... It musta burned up or something.
Please, please, my husband's been waiting for medical attention...
This shit has gotta be great for the paint job!
He waited for you three hours!
You are not gonna believe this, Evelyn!  Absolutely fantastic!  I'm on my way --
I am so tired of your bullshit, Bernie.
Ev, it's not my fault!  I'm trying to tell you this incredible --
It's never your fault, Bernie! Never ever!  You screwed up my life, now you're gonna screw up Joey's life, but you're never gonna accept responsibility for anyth--
Is he here, your friend.  The fireman?
He had an emergency call... a real emergency.
Why doncha let me in so we don't wake everybody in the neighborhood?
Willya lemme talk for Chrissake? I'm trying to tell you what happened.  What happened is...
The same thing that always happens! You blew it! And this time you broke your son's heart instead of mine!  He was so proud, looking forward to going to a movie with his father... and you let him down!  Like you let everybody down, always!  What did you do, take a mudbath?
That's what I'm trying to... to... okay, nevermind.  Just lemme talk to Joey to... to apologize.
He's in bed!  You're not gonna wake him and make him crazy, do you understand?  He comes home from the zoo, he wants to know if Elliot's a "war hero" like you... he wants to know how many people you killed...
"Elliot"?  The heroic goddamn fireman?
I had to explain your tendancy to "exaggerate", How you were actually "in country" all of two weeks and how you killed about as many people as the other clerk-typists in your outfit, no more, no less...
Three weeks, Ev.  I didn't tell him I killed anybody...
Maybe not,... but you let him believe it!  And then I gotta explain about the homeless...
The homeless!
How not all of them own apartment complexes, how not all of them play the stock market, how not all of them rent babies when they're panhandling.  He's ten years old, Bernie!  Impressionable!
Listen, it's important, Ev, I gotta see him, I got my reasons, very goddamn important...
Use the phone, Bernie, call him tomorrow, he'd like to hear from you.  Where's your other shoe? Never mind!  I don't want to know. Some fantastic adventure, right? Something really crazy.
I was giving him some advice is all. Preparing him for life.  You don't want him to grow up soft, Ev    , it's tough out there, it's a goddamn jungle.
 Back to the jungle, Bernie.  Good night.
Sorry, Ev, to bother you again. This is for Joey, his reward... for this wallet he found.  When I, uh , returned it I told the guy he hadda give my kid something for finding it, for the honesty.  So the kid would learn how honestly pays.
Just give it to him, okay, Ev?
You actually went into it?  A burning airplane?
"Into it"!  "Into it", for Chrissake!  I was practically living in the goddamn thing... every time I turned around, some other person wants me to save 'em.
 Couldn't see a fucking foot in front of me, smoke... then booooom!  It explodes!  I could be dead!
And you pulled people out? You're...  a hero.
Nah, I fucked it up.  I was tryin' to impress this kid, don't ask me why.  I was gonna rescue his old man, but I couldn't find the poor bastard.  He musta blew up.  I got the hell outta there.  I didn't have the nerve to face the kid.
 A lotta people wouldn't have tried. It was pretty brave even trying...
Try stupid.
Sorry about that.  Just toss them in back.  A lot of people would say that's what heroism is... stupidity.  Doing something that if you thought about it, you wouldn't do it, it's not in your...  interest.
You got a drinking problem or what?
I sell them at the recycling center. Gives me a little for gas and food.
 Looks like you live in here, for Chrissake!
In bad weather, yeah.  Mostly I camp out in the woods.  I thought maybe you were down on your luck too when I picked you up.
Down on my luck!  Hey, I toldja, a goddamn plane fell on me outta the sky.  In America, for Chrissake! See this shoe!  Hundred dollar pair of shoes.  One shoe!
You should give it to someone with only one leg.
One leg!  Like the Red Cross or something?
I know a guy who only has one leg.
Sell it to him.  You get a couple bucks, it pays for the ride.  I got a job, nice apartment.  I do okay.
They interview you or anything? At the plane crash?
Hey, do I look crazy?  I don't go for that shit... interviews, media. They're manipulators.  "Keep a low profile," that's my motto.
 Besides, I got these legal problems. My attorney don't want me giving statements to the press.
I don't understand.  You can't find him?
There's a lot of confusion around what went on last night, it's not clear...
You said all the passengers were accounted for...
Apparently the guy who pulled you out wasn't a passenger...
A paramedic?  A fireman?  He didn't have a uniform...
From what we could get, there's a kind of... sort of... "mystery guy"...  involved.
We're piecing together different accounts and...
A "mystery guy!"  "Not a passenger." Who?
We don't know who he is, he...
He disappeared.
 A non-passenger, non-rescue-worker went into a burning plane and pulled me out and... disappeared?
Not just you.  Apparently this guy is the one who opened the emergency exit from the outside...
Everybody! He saved everybody on the plane! Because of him, no fatalities!  I don't think you're supposed to move around like that, Gale.  You're attached there...
And all of a sudden, this... "civilian"...  rushed into the plane.  Next thing you know he's hauling Freddy... he's the other flight attendant... out and then he goes back in. (a beat, a tear, then... ) That's what gave me the courage to hang in there even though I knew the plane could blow any minute...
What did he look like?
It was just this face, all dirty, it just appeared.  I really thought I was going to die.
Did he say anything to you?
He... asked if I was "Fletcher."
ONE WORD!  ONE WORD, LAPLANTE, AND YOU'RE FIRED!  GOT THAT?  ONE WORD!
Bill, I...
DON'T SAY "BILL," BERNIE!  DON'T SAY ONE WORD!  DIDN'T I SAY "ONE WORD AND YOU'RE FIRED?"
I...
YOU KNOW WHY?  BECAUSE IT'LL BE AN EXCUSE!  IT'LL BE "BERNIE LAPLANTE EXCUSE NUMBER FOUR THOUSAND ONE HUNDRED AND SIX."  NO, FOUR THOUSAND ONE HUNDRED AND TWELVE.  THAT'S HOW MANY EXCUSES YOU HAVE GIVEN ME, I KEEP TRACK OF THEM ELECTRONICALLY. I HEARD THEM ALL, BERNIE.
Bill, I got some legal problems and I...
THAT'S IT!  YOU TALKED!  YOU'RE FIRED!  OUTTA HERE!  GET OUTTA HERE!
Bill, listen...
OUT!  I TOLDJA.  JESUS CHRIST, I GOT CUSTOMERS WAITING!  AN' YOU WERE GONNA GO OUT LIKE THAT?  AN' MEET THE PUBLIC IN STOCKING-FUCKING-FEET?
Bill, I got financial problems and...
I DON'T CARE ABOUT YOUR PROBLEMS, I'M GONNA THINK ABOUT MY PROBLEMS. YOU'RE ONE A MY PROBLEMS.  GET OUT! OUT!  OUT!
He was asking for Mr. Fletcher...
My son and I got separated in the confusion and smoke.  The very courageous stewardess at the exit told me my boy had got out so I got out too.  But my son had already told this...  man that I was still in there.
I thought my dad was still... still in there.  So I asked the man to save my father.
What did the man say, Richie?
He said... uh... he said... (not sure, thinking, then... ) "I'll save him."  He said, "I'll save your father."
Back.  Go back.  You missed it.
Now.  Go forward again.
Keep going.
There!  Right there.
That's him?
Who else?  We've accounted for everyone else.  That's our hero!
I didn't see the guy when I shot it.  I thought I was getting the last survivors when I panned over.
Any chance we could do some kind of electronic enhancement, you think?  Get a clear picture, identify him?
 There's no face really, nothing to work with.  Big dots, that's all you'll get.
Look at the guy!  He just saved fifty people.  Now he's going to disappear. Who is he?
He said... uh, he said... "I'll save your father."
-- all of a sudden, this... civilian...  He rushed into the plane.
I woke up in an ambulance.  Leslie, the other flight attendant, told me the guy dragged me to the exit.
"Here, give this guy a hand," he said.  The next thing I knew, he was going back in there, into all that smoke...
I was crawling around on the floor. I thought I was a goner!
-BARBERSHOP -ELECTRONICS SHOWROOM -JAIL CELL -SKID ROW HOTEL LOBBY -SHADOW LOUNGE CHICK watching the report. -CLASSROOM JOEY watching the report in a classroom. -EVELYN'S KITCHEN EVELYN watching the report in her kitchen. -ALLEY BUBBER is listening to the report on a radio in an alley.
-- out of the darkness... out of the smoke and the fear... came a man with no name... no uniform... but an abundance of courage.
A man who was thinking not about himself but about others, risking his own life for ours...  He's out there now somewhere... and... whoever you are, I, and the other survivors of Flight 104, say, "Thank you!  God bless!"
Not bad.  But if you gotta wear a cast, you oughtta feature it more it's parta the story. (seeing Wallace enter the room) Network's taking everything we give 'em.  They wanta feed off our six o'clock whether we find the mystery guy or not.  We're very big nationally.
It's a wonderful piece.  Emotional. I love it.
We're gonna feature Gale's cast more.  The trick is gonna be keeping the upper hand on this piece. As long as we have Gale and there's no mystery guy, we're the center of the story.  But if he shows up and somebody else gets him first or exclusive...
What about a reward for coming forward?
There could be problems with something like that Mister Wallace. What if...?
 WHAT?  THEY FOUND WHAT?
A phone check with survivors has confirmed that the shoe does not belong to any of the crew or passengers of Flight 104.  Several witnesses recall the mysterious man who saved fifty-four people referring to his missing shoe. The conclusion; the unknown hero, know to many as "The Angel of Flight 104," wears a size 10B shoe.
Joey!  Dinner!  Now!  Turn that thing off.
He lost a shoe!
Who lost a shoe?  Wash your hands.
The "unknown hero."  They found his shoe right beside the plane crash.
Superman, you mean?  Lost a shoe! What next?
Elliot!  The man saved hundreds of people!
Fifty-four!  I was there, remember? You know why I didn't rush into that plane?  Because I'm a trained fireman, that's why!  Part of a team!  A disciplined team.  We take risks all the time, save people. But we don't take crazy chances. This guy does something really dumb and he lucks out.  So the media go crazy about his shoe for god's sake! What kind of message are they giving to youth?
 What kind of message are you giving to youth?  Sneering at someone for sticking his neck out.  You sound like my ex for heaven's sake... Mister Cynicism.
So what can I say?  Give your ex credit for being smart enough not to do something stupid.  Maybe the man's not all bad.  I'm gonna watch TV, hoping it's not all this "Superman stuff."
My father didn't have his shoes on when he... when he came here.
 You were in bed.  Weren't you?
I... I saw him out the window.
You think your father would do something like that?  Rescue people?  Your father is Bernie LaPlante, Joey.  It's against his religion to stick his neck out.
Bernie, how'sa kid?
You don't wanna know, Chick, you don't wanna know.  Those guys been in here?
 You in business with those guys or what?  I wouldn't want a problem for the establishment, Bern.
You couldn't have a problem, Chick, because I personally have got them all.  I cornered the whole goddamn market.  You wouldn't believe... Oh, how ya doin'...?
We bring our frenn this time, okay?
Excuse me here, Chick, I gotta do these guys a little favor.
 Hey, vato!  Vamos.
Good evening.  We at Channel Four, like you, have been stirred by the courage and...
Hombre!  Por aqui!
How many you got there?  Eight? Ten?
They offer him a million dollars reward.
Who?
The "plane crash guy".
 Is that all of them?  Eight?
 What "plane crash guy"?
The one-shoe dude who saved all those people, man.  Channel Four gonna give him a million for an interview.
Come.  on, hombre, we doin' business here.  You got more or not?
The offer is absolutely unconditional.  All he has to do, is satisfy our reporter, Gale Gayley, and the other passengers who had contact with him that he is indeed the brave man who...
 HEY!  WHAT THE HELL IS THIS?  WHAT'S GOIN' ON HERE?
You have the right to remain silent, you have the right to --
Hey, this is bullshit!  Do you guys know who I am?  You know where I got the goddamn plastic?  I got a million bucks coming.  I'm the guy who...
 You have the right to the counsel of an attorney...
CHICK, CALL MY ATTORNEY!  THIS IS BULLSHIT!  ENTRAPMENT!  I GOT A MILLION BUCKS COMING, FOR CHRISSAKE!
ONE MILLION DOLLAR REWARD TO THE UNANIMOUS HERO!  ONE MILLION BUCKS FOR THE "ANGEL" WHO SAVED FIFTY PEOPLE AND TOOK OFF!
PLEASE, IF YOUR FOOT ISN'T A SIZE 10-B, DON'T REMAIN IN LINE.  WE'RE ONLY SEEING SIZE 10-B "HEROES."
Thass a racist perspective, assuming that because something heroic was done that a white man done it.  A man with mud on his face could be a man of any color, most likely was, which is true in this case cause it was me!  With mud all over me.
You call me a liar, I'm gonna kick your ass.
Hey, it's not just me sayin' you ain't no hero.  Everybody in the goddamn line says you ain't the hero.
Can you believe this?  Must be more than a thousand phonies after my reward.
HEY, MISS GAYLEY!  HEY, GALE! REMEMBER ME?  I'M THE GUY!  I SAVED YOUR LIFE!  REMEMBER --
My foot's only eight and a half but I wear a ten B for the comfort. I swear!  Hey, Miss Gayley, I saved your life!
Hey, Miss Gayley, there's a cop looking for you.  From Robbery Detail, Inspector Dayton.  He wants you to call him.
What about?
I didn't ask him.
Call him back.  Ask him.  I'm a little...busy.
Bail in this matter will remain in the sum of five thousand dollars.  Next.
"The Angel of Flight 104!"  You're telling me you're the A...?
 "Angel!"  I didn't say "angel," that's a little strong.  Listen, here's the thing, I gotta get over there to the TV station to collect my million bucks.
Mister LaPlante, I really want to help you, but crazy stories are only going to make it worse.  The D.A. is asking your bail be set at twenty-five thousand dollars because you were arrested again while you were out on bail...
Twenty-five grand is peanuts!  All you gotta do is get me outta here long enough to collect.
The People versus Bernard LaPlante.
Your honor, my attorney here says the prosecutor there wants twenty-five grand bail...
Mister LaPlante, you will be silent unless the court recognizes you...
 --which is fine by me.  I got no problem with that at all. In fact, your honor, I'd be proud to double it.  Fifty grand!  A tip for "the people," your honor, if I could just...
Mister LaPlante, unless you stop chattering immediately, I am going to ask the Bailiff to...
DAMNIT!  I SAID I WANTED ORDER!
Sorry, your honor...
We got carried away.
They found him.
Found who?
The "Angel of Flight 104".
It was on the news!  Just now! He's gonna be on Channel Four at noon!
We'll sustain bail at twenty-five thousand dollars.  That ought to keep Mister LaPlante out of trouble for a minute or two...
But your honor, my client is a responsible family man with limited resources who...
But finally you did come forward. Why?
The money, Gale.  I wouldn't have come forward at all if it wasn't for the reward.
Cut right there, right on that look!
You didn't mention he was cute.
He saved my life.
The guy's a fake, for Chrissake! He's a goddamn homeless bum.  He ain't no here, trust me on this, buddy.
"Trust you"!
I thought they'd all go "It's him! It's him!" and hug the guy or something.
Relax, Wally.  He had the shoe and the shoe checks out.
Does this mean I can stop worrying? Where'd we put him?
Drake Hotel, Penthouse Suite.  Never stop worrying.  I figure we'll do a sidebar on what it's like to go from sleeping in your car and collecting cans to sleeping in the poshest suite in town.  Also Gale's onto something, digging into his background.
Excuse me, Ms. Gayley.  That guy Inspector Dayton... he's recovered a bunch of your credit cards and he wants...
Who?
Inspector Dayton, the cop from Robbery Detail who was looking for you.  They caught the guy who stole your credit cards trying to sell them and he wants...
Nobody stole my credit cards.  They burned up in the crash.  Which reminds me, did you get me cash? And what about the reservations?
Very good, sir.  It's a special privilege to serve you.
Uh, er... I...
 You were saying you don't want a million dollars.
 Well, I'm not entitled to a million dollars.  I... I... didn't expect... I didn't expect...
All the adulation?  It makes you feel like a fake, doesn't it?
Uh, actually... yes... I... should never have come forward and presented myself as --
You're a credit to the goddamn human race.  Coulda been me in that plane. Or my family.
Uh, thank you.
Instant celebrity is overwhelming to anybody.  You've known John Bubber all your life, you're used to him, you know you're the same human being you were before all the excitement.  So you feel like a fraud...
Yes.
...unworthy of the adoration.  We all do.
I'm going to donate a half million to charity in your name.  Would small animals be all right?
 Uh, "small animals"?
 I knew a man like you would adore small animals.  God bless you, Mister Bubber.  And you, my dear, you do so much for women.
Is she... serious?  A half a million dollars?  In my behalf?
You're a celebrity, John.  People are going to want to please you... or use you... or both.
Come on, John.
Hey, hey, uh, take it easy.
You, uh, want me to sign this?  Uh, what's your name?
 S-sylvia.
 Hey, if I sign this, will you do me a favor?
What I'd like is...  -- maybe some of the rest of you could help Sylvia here -- what I'd like is if you'd scrounge up some blankets -- used ones, fifty maybe -- and take 'em to the folks down at the corner of Fifth and Grand. Pass 'em out.
Fifth and Grand!
He means the homeless people.  The bums.
It gets cold down there at night. And you'll feel warmer for every person you give a blanket to.
I'll bet they do it.  I'll bet they get some blankets.
Uplifting!  What you did was so uplifting!  You're a saint, John Bubber!
Uh, no.  But I, uh, wonder if you could up support... support a program to help the needy and...
 John, I'm sure she could support just about anything.  I think I'll see you to your room. A sort of bodyguard.  Make sure no harm comes to you.
Uh, if you could, just, uh, support, uh, a small airfield...
 It's been sometime since, uh, I received any, uh, of that kind of, uh... attention.  A couple of... years.
Years?  There are going to be lots of... opportunities.
Gale... you're a very nice person. I wouldn't want to hurt you... in any way...
I... I know that, John...
You... you think I saved your... life.  I can't take advantage....
You did save my life!  And it's me! I'd be taking advantage of you! I'm a reporter, John, an experienced professional...  I...
I... no... I don't have the right... I...
No, I don't have the right.  You're a news story!
Uh, right.  A... news story.
I know the truth, John.  I'm flying in some guys from your unit in Vietnam tomorrow.  Interviewing them live on network hookup!
 Vietnam!
Goodnight, John.
Next thing I know, I'm in this medical unit an' I see the other dude, the one who was with me when we got jumped, the one who I thought was dead.  There he is in the next bed.  I says "How'd we get here, brother?  We dead or what?" He says, "That crazy white brother, Johnny Bubber, he come back for us, hauled us out."  He shoulda been wrote up, got a medal, but it was fate.  Wasn't no officers around to observe it or nothing.
The sonofagun goes out in the paddies, pulling us outta there, one after the other, six guys.  Hey, it don't surprise me one bit it was Johnny Bubber went into that plane!
Fifty bucks says the asshole was never even in Vietnam.
After an emotional reunion, Bubber's fellow veterans watched as station manager James Wallace presented Bubber with a check for one million dollars...
As Bubber reacted to his sudden wealth, word came that the Secretary of the Army, responding to an urgent resolution from the Senate has conferred on John Bubber the Medal of Honor. This for his actions in Vietnam more than 20 years ago, heroism that was not acknowledged at the time because it was not witnessed or reported by a ranking officer.  Later I spoke to him about his sudden change in circumstances...
Well, I don't feel... right... about all that money, Miss Gayley.  That's too much money for one person.  What I'm gonna do is donate, uh, most of it to different organizations like the Homeless Vets and stuff, and start up some programs... to help people.  See, when you're out there in the cold like I was, on the streets or sleeping under bridges or in your car, the worst thing, even worse than the hunger and the cold, is the...  feeling... that you're just plain...  useless. You don't matter to a single soul in this world, nobody needs you, nobody wants you.
-MOTEL ROOM -WHITE HOUSE The PRESIDENT watching. -CHEAP HOTEL LOBBY -SHADOW LOUNGE CHICK watching. -JAIL BERNIE watching. -EVELYN'S LIVING ROOM JOEY, EVELYN, and ELLIOT watching. -PRISON INMATES, their tough faces momentarily solemn, watching. -WINSTON'S APARTMENT WINSTON smacks the TV he bought from Bernie to adjust the color.
I guess when I... did what I did... I was trying to save my own life more than anything else. Trying to connect myself with people again and be... part of the whole.  You have to help others to do that, you need a role to, play... even if it's a very humble role, it gives you self worth.
Is he like that in real life?  So gorgeous?
He's pretty... remarkable.
 You didn't... get it on with him?
Don't be ridiculous.  I'm a reporter.
Reporters don't have hormones?
Reporters... have to... rise above their hormones.
The guy's... a natural.
I asked John Bubber about the Medal of Honor.
As far as the medal goes, well... that medal's for something me and my buddies did almost twenty years ago in Viet Nam.  So if I'm a war hero today then I was a war hero last week when I was selling cans and sleeping in my car... when I didn't have a medal.  I don't think a medal makes a hero.  You don't need machinegun fire or burning planes to be... brave.  People do heroic acts every day only there's nobody around to take their picture or decorate them.  Little things can be heroic.  Helping someone day in and day out, giving up your life a little every day instead of all at once... to help. Maybe... maybe we're all heroes.
-BARBERSHOP -ELECTRONICS SHOWROOM -BAR -JAIL CELL -SKID ROW HOTEL LOBBY
We're all heroes, huh?  Asshole!
LAPLANTE, BERNARD.  LAPLANTE?
Me?
Ya made bail, Ace.  C'mon, let's go.
John Bubber himself!  Along with twenty of the real survivors of flight 104!  See the real life participants re-enact the terrifying drama inside the burning plane.
Out of the darkness, out of the fire, out of a nightmare of fear... came The Angel of Flight 104.  John Bubber saved fifty-four people.  This is his story and theirs.  A drama featuring the actual people who actually lived those moments of terror.  No make-up, no music, no actors. This is the real thing.  Thursday night.  Channel-Four.  Be there!
Upset!  What's he upset about?
Said he's not an actor.
He's not supposed to be an actor, that's the whole point.  He's a real life hero, all he has to do is act like a real life hero.  That's the beauty of the concept, the whole freshness of it.  Did she call him back?
She's talking to him now.
We paid him a million dollars. You'd think he'd want to cooperate a little, help our ratings.
How'd it go?
He'll do it.  You really-should have talked to him first.
He might have said no.
Whaddaya mean they didn't reduce the bail?  If they didn't reduce it, how'dja spring me?
 I took a loan on my car and my computer.
 You whaaaaaat?  You paid it?  You gave a bondsman ten percent?
I was inspired by the hero, how he stuck his neck out for others, how he took a chance...
 That fake inspired you to loan a guy who's been fired off his job twenty-five hundred goddamn dollars? A guy you say is probably gonna do time!  You're s'posed to be an attorney for Chrissake!  You're s'posed to have good judgment!
 Well, as you like to point out, Mister LaPlante, I'm relatively inexperienced.  My naivete may have worked to your benefit in this instance.
Well, you're right, I'm glad you got me out, I appreciate that.
Listen, now that I owe you twenty-five hundred bucks plus, how about loaning me twenty for cab fare?
So you can call me "naive," Mister LaPlante.
Hey, you could call me "Bernie," forget the "Mister LaPlante" stuff. (seeing Donna open her wallet) You are naive.
I read the probation report.  It's not good.  I think you're going... going to prison, Mister... Bernie. I know that scares you but..
TAXI!  HEY, TAXI!  Well, at least I'm gonna get my goddamn million bucks.  TAXI FOR CHRISSAKE!
I seen on the TV where that do-gooder asshole's gonna go visit sick kids at three-thirty.  Children's Hospital, on the double.
 You mean John Bubber?
 That bozo don't just owe me a million bucks for my shoe, he's a goddamn menace!  Look what he done to you!  He's makin' people insane. He's a whacko, he' gotta be stopped.
Is that him?  Is he here yet, Miss Roberts?
Excuse me, sir.  Can I help you?
Uh, well I... what I...
You'll have to leave, ,sir.  This ward is off limits.  If you want to arrange a visit...
Excuse me, pal.  Uh, couldja lemmee through here?  Thanks I...
You gotta press pass, sir?
Press pass?  Uh, hey, I lost it. Listen...
 GETCHER GODDAMN HANDS OFFA ME.  ALL I WANNA DO IS TALK TO THE GUY.
HEY, HOLD ON, BUDDY.  THIS IS AMERICA FOR CHRISSAKE!  I GOT RIGHTS!
All under control.  An unfortunate man.  Security will look after him.
Listen, kid, you gotta hang on. I know you're scared, we all get scared, but that's when you have to fight...
I'm afraid he can't hear you.  He...
He can hear me...
Listen... (eyes flicking to Allen's I.D. bracelet) Allen, you're in the darkness there and it's scary.  The doctors are working on you but the tough part is for you.  You can't quit!
I know you don't know it, but you're a hero.  Sometimes you don't know how brave you are... and sometimes you don't know... you can do something...  until you... until you surprise yourself and... do it.  But I know you've got the stuff, I know it in my heart.  I want you to struggle kid... for yourself, for all of us.  For me.  I... I really need you to do this for me.  I need you to get well, Allen.
Hey, buddy, you're with the media, right?  I got a story for you. Something fantastic.  That guy Bubber, he's a fake, he...
HEY!  WATCH OUT!  HOLD ON!  FOR CHRISSAKE!
 You were... very... inspiring.
 A script!  I thought we just walked through everything...
Read it.  It'll be fine.
Quit shovin', lady.  Hey, watch yer elbow.  YOU'RE ALL NUTS FOR CRYING OUT LOUD!  WHATSA MATTER WITH YOU?
I LOVE YOU, JOHN BUBBER!
HEY, WE ALL LOVE EACH OTHER, DON'T WE?
GOD BLESS US ALL!
YA GODDAMN PHONY!
BUBBER, YA GODDAMN FRAUD!  THAT'S MY SHOE AND MY MONEY!
Don't tell me what I can and can't say.  This is America.
 Hey, suit yourself, buddy.  If it makes you feel better to insult a man who's worth about a thousand of you, go ahead.  Like he says, "We're all heroes," pal.  Even you.
Bullshit!  What a lotta bullshit!
Okay, have it your own way: you're not a hero.
Hey, I don't blame you for bein' sore.  I know I screwed up gettin' busted in here.  You got a right to throw me out.
I'm not gonna throw you out, Bernie.
Thanks, Chick.  I appreciate it.
The doctors who had believed the boy had little or no chance for survival, now predict a slow but complete recovery.
Helluva guy, ain't he?  Vietnam, plane crash, now miracles.
Sorry, sir.  Closed to the public.. (Dayton is reaching for his fold) No media either, sir, they're taping a show and... Oh, right.  Sorry about that, Inspector.
Now you lean down and free me from the seat.  I was caught and... that's it.  Good.
Now you help me up.  Boy, you seem...  taller.  It must be psychological...  now that I know you saved my life...
 Gale!  I can't go through with this! It's... it's all wrong!'
You're doing fine.  You didn't actually lift me though.  It was more like you supported me.
 That's not what I mean...
There, like that.  Kind of, uh, sexy.  You can support me anytime, John.
Gale...
 I just remembered.  You were talking about bodybuilding and swearing.
Bodybuilding!
WE DON'T WANT ACTING, AS I SAID. BUT WHEN WE DO A TAKE, GUYS, PLEASE DON'T LAUGH, OKAY?  IT HAS TO PLAY SERIOUS.  IT WAS A VERY SERIOUS THING...  UH, ALSO, JOHN, MAYBE YOU COULD LIFT HER MORE, SORT OF CARRY HER.  I KNOW THAT MAY BE BENDING REALITY JUST A TEENSY BIT, BUT IF YOUR JOURNALIST'S INTEGRITY CAN HANDLE IT, GALE, I THINK IT WOULD "PLAY BETTER" ON THE SCREEN. (then, to all of them...) OKAY, GANG, LET'S RUN THROUGH IT FROM THE TOP ONE MORE TIME, THEN WE'LL DO A TAKE.
It's not right, Gale...
 It's no big deal, it just looks better carrying me.  Oh, you mean because I wasn't carrying my purse at the time.
 You're an inspiration, John.  You're making us better human beings.  Less cynical.  More open, more giving. Do you realize that?
You leave her here... and you go back in again.
What wouldja say if I toldja I ran into a burning plane an' saved a buncha people, Chick, an' risked my goddamnlife?
You mean like Bubber?  The hero?
Yeah, like that.  Same thing.
Well... I mean... what am I supposed to say here, Bern?  Is this a riddle or what?
I mean, if I said it, wouldja believe me?  Ya wouldn't, would ya?
It's a character thing, Bernie. I mean, you wouldn't do it.  No offense.  Me neither.  I mean, a guy like Bubber, he's a certain kinda guy.  Heroic.  You and me, we're not... heroic.  It's not our nature. It don't mean we're bad or nothing. We're just not so inclined.  What about it?
Nothin'.
I wouldn't be depressed about it, Bern.  A guy don't have to be heroic to be a human being.
The thing is, Chick.  I'm goin' down.
Down.  You mean jail?  For that credit card stuff?  For Chrissake, Bernie, your lawyer...
Not jail.  Prison.  And not that credit card bullshit, that's nothin'.  I got a conviction. Sentencing tomorrow.  Some cases of paint I got involved with. Latex.  I see this parole officer, he writes a report to the judge says I'm "anti-social."
"Anti-social."  Jesus, Bernie. How much paint are we talking about?
 A lot.
That's a wrap, guys.  I want to thank you all.  I think we did something very important here this evening.
Just let me get that gunk off your face, Mister Bubber.
Uh, it can wait, I...
Mister Bubber... uh, John... Kelly wants you to sign an autograph for John Jr.
Won't take more than ten minutes. Fifteen at the most.  I'll buy you, a cuppa coffee down the street.
Gale!
I breathe, I see the sun, I thank you.  God bless you.  I'm alive because of you, every moment of life I owe to you.
How... how does this, whatsisname, the "sleazebag," say he got my cards?
LaPlante?  Ha!  Which version?  This bozo has more stories than a newspaper.  In one of them, he's "the angel of Flight 104!"  He pulls you off the plane, saves your purse for you, but forgets to return it. That's Version 63.  In Version 64, he kept it to pay for his "hundred dollar shoes." The guy's a bullshit artist, he's already got a sentence pending for dealing stolen goods. (leaning forward, whispering) Listen, I know.  this is pretty off the wall... that guy, the hero, Bubber...  he was a homeless guy, right?  Down on his luck?  He couldn't have swiped the wallet, could he?  While he was rescuing you?  And sold it to this guy LaPlante?
 John Bubber risks his life to save me and fifty-four other people and...  swipes my purse?
Too far-fetched?  I mean, I'm not trying to make problems for John Bubber, I just want to make sure this creep LaPlante does some meaningful time.  If we can't figure out how he got the cards, it makes it more difficult.
Tell me more about him.
Homework.  You're doing homework, remember?
 Homework, homework, homework!  No homework, no zoo trips, no movies.  Hello.  He's doing his homework.
Look, I'm going away, I just wanna say goodbye to... never mind where. I just wanna say... He can't call me back later, my phone's disconnected...
It's your father.  If you don't talk to him, he's going to call all night.
Hey, Joey, how ya doin', pal, it's me.  Your old man.  You get the twenty dollars?  What?  Well, she's right on that, Joey, that's the best place for it, a college fund.  I was gonna tell ya that myself.  Look, about how I didn't show up the other night I... what?  You seen me out the window....  One shoe, yeah and the mud...  So you thought I mighta been the heroic guy, huh?  An' what'd she say when you...? "Against my religion," huh? (he struggles, then... decisive) Well, you know Joey, this kinda stuff, we gotta talk about it some time, man to man.  But I gotta go off on this -- this damn business trip now...  for a while.  So... so I won't be seein' you.  What you gotta do, you gotta listen to your mother, she's smart, very smart, knows what's best for you and...  No, no, no, it ain't 'cause I don't like you, Christ!  I mean, not "Christ," you know... I mean I don't wanna go on this business thing, I love you Joey, but I gotta! That's part of growing older, all these goddamn (pardon the vulgarity) business things you have to do.  Which reminds me, this "hero" business... one of the things you learn as you get older is that life gets very complicated... weird actually... people aren't exactly like they seem...  nothing is...  life gets unbelievable... this is normal as you grow older and...  huh?  I was talking to Joey.
Your son actually wants to spend time with you.  If you let him down this time after popping back into his life...
Ev, you gotta understand, it's this...  this goddamn business trip, no wait, don't hang up, Ev, just a sec, listen, I just wanna say one thing, okay?  One thing!  I know I kinda act like an asshole sometimes.  I know that.  I know you were a good wife.  I know I fucked it up.  I had a good thing an' I blew it.  I just want you to know I know that, okay?  I gotta go now.  Business trip.  It's gonna be a while.
LaPlante!  That asshole!  I don't... Hey, is that you, from the tee vee? In person?
We're from Channel Four, yes.  We'd like to find --
"This is Gale Gayley for Channel Four News!"  Incredible. Unbelievable!  For Bernie LaPlante! He's a celebrity now?  'Cause he stole paint?
We couldn't find his name on the buzzer or on the mailbox, but...
"Low profile."  That's his big motto!  He don't put his name on anything.  Come on, we'll go look.
Shouldn't we have buzzed him to let him know --
Half the time he don't answer even if he's home.  Know why?  'Cause he don't want no bill collectors to find him.  I don't mean to be judgmental, but he's a scumbag. He don't have no friends.  Who's gonna like a creep like LaPlante? I was doin' him a favor on the TV outta kindness, and he screwed me. You know what color skin you get on my set, Miss Gayley?  Purple! That's what color skin you got on the tee vee LaPlante sells me!
Bernard!  Bernard!  Hey, LaPlante, open the door.  Television Interview!  Fame and fortune.  Open up, Bernard.
Hope the silly bastard didn't kill himself.  He's all upset about this sentence he got.  He's going to prison.  That a camera you're carrying?  If he killed himself, you could take pictures.
No dead body.  Too bad.  Not too often you guys get pictures of a body even before the cops get there. Exclusive!
I wonder if you'd mind if we waited for him here, Mister Winston...
What's he gonna do, sue?  You people, you're the media.
We're gonna wait here?  The guy could be hours.
Maybe, maybe not.  I have a feeling this guy is important somehow.
Hey, listen, great that you're a career-fiend, I got a wife and family, I...
You're lucky, Chucky, you... OW!
What's the matter?
This sofa is a lethal weapon.  The springs... are... the springs... what...?
What is it?
 The...Silver...Mike...Award!
This guy LaPlante won an award?
 "For Excellence in the Pursuit of Truth."
 LaPlante!
Who the hell are you?  What's goin' on here?
You!
Camera, Chucky.  Are you Bernard LaPlante, sir?  What is your relationship with John Bubber?
 Turn that thing off.
 How did you acquire this, Mister LaPlante?
How do ya think I got it, for Chrissake? (to Chucky, indicating the vidpak) Hey, put that thing down.  This is my goddamn apartment, you can't just...
What's your scheme, Mister LaPlante? What are you forcing John Bubber to do?  What are you -- ?
HE'S GONNA JUMP!  BUBBER'S GONNA JUMP!  IT'S ON CHANNEL THIRTEEN!
Thirteen!
Oh my God!
 Your phone!  Quick.
He's green for Chrissake!
No shit!  You took advantage of me, LaPlante.  It's a piece of shit.
You gotta tune it, ya bozo.  You gotta adjust it.
For God's sake, tell him I'm on my way. (she slams down the phone) Let's go, Chucky.  A police escort is gonna pick us up en route.  You too, LaPlante.
Me!
If you're not in the car in ten seconds, I'll have the cops pick you up.
The cops!  What kinda bullshit is this?  Is this America or -- ?
 Here!  Here... ten, thirty, fifty bucks.  How much have you got, Chucky?  Give Mister LaPlante your money.
Come on!  Let's go!  John's in danger.
 Christ, you media people think you can just buy people.  Cheap.
My fault!  My fault!  This nut case goes out on a ledge and it's my fault?
If anything happens to John BUbber, Mister LaPlante I'm going to see you prosecuted to the full extent of the law.
What, is everybody in love with this, bozo?  I don't get this.  What about...?
Yes, everybody is in love with John Bubber.  The whole country, in fact. And they're not going to be happy if he jumps to his death because he was harassed by a lousy little money-grubbing low-life fence...
"Harassed."  Cause I yelled at him when he's riding in his limo?  The guy's a thief, he took my...
 He had one tiny, uncharacteristic moment of weakness.  That's not the same thing as a lifetime of petty crime...
 Hey, lady, I got faults, I know I'm not perfect but I don't get this at all, your attitude.  I saved your...
 A lifetime of petty crime climaxed by your sleaziest accomplishment yet...  blackmailing a national hero...
-- saved your...  whaaaaaaat?  What? Blackmailing...?
You think I haven't figured it out? Just because the cops aren't on to you yet doesn't mean you're home free.  I'm a veteran reporter.  I've seen your kind before, the underbelly of crime.
Underbelly!
In all that smoke and fire, John had a moment of weakness.  He'd been down and out, destitute, living in his car.  It was just an impulse, stealing my purse.
Swiped your purse!  While he was saving you?  You gotta be kidding!
 And sold it to Mister LaPlante, the fence, who's now trying to blackmail poor John.
He's gotta be a nut!  He saves all those people and swipes a purse?
 Because he was a real hero, Chucky. He was acting out of a deep instinctive decency, not out of some ego thing.  He didn't expect the media to lionize him.  He didn't expect a million dollar reward. He saved fifty-four people because something inside him, some fundamental love for his fellow man, made him rush into that plane when "good sense" told him otherwise. He was willing to settle for some credit cards he sold to LaPlante....  For how much, LaPlante?  A couple of bucks?  Did you give him enough for a decent meal?
All this is off the record, Chucky, because if John Bubber lives, Mister LaPlante is going to give him his assurance that there will be no more "misbehavior" on his part.  What's more he's going to apologize.
I'm going to apologize to Bubber?
I could deny I had those credit cards on the plane with me, LaPlante...
 Lie, you mean...
Well, maybe I wouldn't lie...but I could tell the story the way I did just now, so that people could understand that John is even more of a hero, and that you... you're the lowest thing that ever crawled.  Your name will be synonymous with cynical opportunism and blackmail.  You won't get a cent.
 I got a kid, you know.  I'm a person, for Chrissake.
Well, for your child's sake, show some decency then, rise above your sleazy instincts.  You may have already killed him!
No!  He's with us, Officer.
He'll only talk to you, Ms Gayley. Just lean out and we'll hold you from behind.
NO!  NO!  NO!  NO!  NO!
John!  Don't do it!  Everything's okay.
Gale!  This is for you.  I want you to know I never meant to hurt you. This will explain everything.
John, I know all about it.
 You do?
NNNOOOOOOOOOOOO!
It's all right, John!  It's nothing! A little mistake.  Everybody will understand!
"A little mistake"!
No, John, you're too hard on yourself.  I've got the creep here, the guy who's...
Hold on!  Hold on!  Lemme talk to him for Chrissake!
Hey, Bubber, c'mere!  I gotta talk to you, buddy.
LaPlante!
Come on, John, don't be an asshole. I don't like heights.
Listen, LaPlante, I'm really sorry. It's all in my letter to Ga... uh, Miss Gayley.  I was all wrong.
Turn that thing off!  You want him to jump?
I just wanna talk with you for a minute.  Then you can jump.  You can jump twice for all I care.
Talk from there.  You can talk from there.
In private.  They got cameras and alla that crap in there. Microphones.
It looks like someone is out on the ledge with John Bubber.  We can only presume this is a rescue specialist of some kind from the police or fire department.  He... he's moving toward Bubber, crawling.  He does not appear to have a safety rope tied to him and, as we've explained, the fire department has been unable to rig a net.
 That's for Ga... Ms. Gayley.
What am I, a goddamn postman?  I'm way the fuck up here, I'm scared a heights, and you want me to deliver a letter?  Put a stamp on it for Chrissake!
That's close enough.  It's a confession.  The truth.  Jesus, I'm sorry, LaPlante.  I had the shoe, you said you didn't want, publicity because of your legal problems.
I don't recall saying I didn't want a million bucks...
I never really thought they'd go for it.  And then... you didn't come forward, they investigated my war record...  I kept expecting you to show up and expose me...
I was in the can, for Chrissake.
The bathroom!  For two days?
Jail!  Listen, Bubber... (looks down, fifteen stories) This is crazy.  We could fall off of here.
You should go in.  You're risking your life again...
 I'm beginning to... be aware of that, John.  Listen, I'm not gonna do nothing heroic here, you can trust me on that, buddy.  Whaddaya say we just sit down for a while. I don't have no tricks, I'm not that smart.  You could, like, rest up for the jump.
What have I done?  I was dirt poor and useless... but I was honest.
Lighten up, John.  You think you got problems for Chrissake?
-- still don't know why John BUbber, hero to the nation, stepped out onto the ledge fifteen stories above the street more than an hour ago.
 But we now have the identity of the man who has been talking to him for the last fifteen minutes at great personal risk.  He has been identified as Bernard LaPlante, former employee of Gumley's Carpet Care.
There is speculation that LaPlante is an old friend of Bubber's, perhaps a war buddy.
MOM!  MOM!  IT'S MY FATHER!  MOM!
I'm gonna grab the high ground, get a hot overhead angle.
 You stole her purse!  While you were saving her?
What's the big deal?  You decided to pretend you were me.  A little moment of weakness, right?  So I sorta swiped her purse.  I got feet of clay too, bUddy.
And she thinks you're blackmailing me?
Right.
Which don't sound like such a bad goddamn idea, John.
Huh?  Whadda you mean?
Well, we gotta work this thing out, John.  It's a goddamn mess an' I'm halfway to doing serious time in the joint an' the TV lady's so stuck on you she don't want it to come out you stole her purse because it might break the heart of millions. (indicating the chanting crowd below) Looka those maniacs, willya?  They love you, for Chrissake!
I don't need to be a hero, LaPlante, but I can't face people... the looks in their eyes... after the trust they gave me!
Great!  You make this big goddamn mess, then ya jump.  Beautiful! Listen, John, I was there at the hospital today, I seen you with those little bastards (pardon my vulgarity).
It was you!  I thought I heard...
I'm not saying I hate sick people or anything but I hate being around them if you know what I mean.  There you go, you inspire this kid to live.  I probably woulda vomited on him.
 Allen?  He... he's okay?
See what I mean?  You remember his name for Chrissake!  I mean, I remember my own kid's name... but I'm always forgetting his birthday. Plus when they stick cameras in your face and ask all these stupid questions, you smile at them.  You got a kinda...  a kinda... "gift," there, John, if ya know what I mean. People wanna be saved by you.  Even me!  If I was gonna be saved I wouldn't wanna see Bernie LaPlante comin' outta the goddamn smoke an' darkness an' fear an' stuff.  I'd wanna see John God Damn Bubber!
You got those people out of the plane, LaPlante, not me.
You woulda gone in there, you wouldn'ta thought twice...  Trust me on that, that's the kinda guy you are.  For a guy like me, it's a momentary loss of sanity.  I wasn't thinking clearly.  Listen, I'm no hero, John.  I just want some dough and maybe a little favor. How much didja spend already on all that do-gooder bullshit?  You didn't spend it all didja?
Well, I donated a lot to different causes, uh... La...
Bernie.  Call me Bernie.
--but there's a lot of it still left, uh, Bernie.  Almost half.
Whaddaya mean what do I wanna know? I wanna know everything.  Who's this screwball LaPlante for Pete's sake, what the hell's he doing out there, auditioning for the priesthood? You're supposed to be on top of this, Gale, don't... (he stops, listens, explodes) "Quit!"  You can't quit!  It's unprofessional!
 Quit?  She wants to quit?
 Listen, Gale, I know you're emotionally involved.  Don't be emotionally involved, be professional.  No, Gale, you are not a hardbitten, cynical hard-ass, you just think you are.  You are a goddamn cream puff!  Try and be a hard-ass!
She wants to quit?
She can't quit.
My God!  It... it is him!
Wh-why's he... why's he up there, mom?
Where's your coat?  Get your coat!
Gale shoulda aired that bit first, she's the one who found this clown LaPlante!  She let Channel Eight get a beat on us.
 Listen, Deak, what if Bubber has got something to hide?  What if he's the wrong guy, not really the hero...?
Helluva story!
 No, Deak, not a great story.  We backed this guy, he's our boy!  We gave him a vote of confidence, we gave him a million dollars.
Now what?
 Something's going on, Bubber is communicating something.  Both men are...
-- still sitting on the ledge but Bubber is motioning to someone in the window, he seems to be calling out to them and now... now he's holding up two fingers.  He's signalling something, holding up two fingers.
If I gave you the impression I hated him I didn't mean to.  I... I hate the way he behaves... he's selfish and self-centered and cynical...
What's "cynical"?
It's when you say, "Everybody else cheats why shouldn't I?"  But I don't -- I don't hate -- him. I... loved him once, Joey.  Very much.  I just got... tired.  Maybe it wasn't all his fault.  He... What's happening?  Oh, my God...
-- FIREMEN LEANING OUT THE WINDOW! THEY HAVE WHAT APPEAR TO BE LONG POLES AND THEY'RE REACHING THE POLES TOWARD THE TWO MEN ON THE LEDGE, JOHN BUBBER AND HIS COMPANION, BERNARD LAPLANTE!
What's happening?  What are they doing...?
 LAPLANTE AND BUBBER ARE REACHING FOR THE POLES!  THERE'S SOMETHING AT THE TIP OF THE POLES.  THEY'RE TAKING SOMETHING FROM THE POLES! IT LOOKS LIKE -- IT LOOKS LIKE... I THINK IT'S...  WAIT A MINUTE, I HAVE A REPORT HERE...
COFFEE!  IT'S COFFEE!  WE'RE TOLD THAT BUBBER AND LAPLANTE ASKED FOR TWO CUPS OF COFFEE.
 Coffee!  Just like your father to request something totally inappropriate.  Thousands of people watching and he wants a cup of coffee.  I remember when you were in the hospital, when you had the appendicitis, your father stayed all night by your bed... and he hates hospitals, always thinks he's going to catch something... and then that time when your Uncle Howard got hurt... It seems like your father is at his best in a crisis... when things go really wrong or there's some kind of emergency, your father forgets to be Bernie LaPlante and acts sort of like... a human being.
We've learned that the devices the firemen used to "deliver" the coffee... I described them as "poles"... are, in fact, oversized tongs used by the hotel staff to change difficult-to-reach lightbulbs...
You got it?  Four year scholarship to a top college, plus Medical School or Law School or whatever Joey wants; pay off the $2,500 to my attorney, plus pay her fee in full, plus my annual consulting fee...
And give a deposition to the jUdge.
 Listen, John, you better double my attorney's fee.  She's very inexperienced, but she done a great job for me. And give her your autograph.  She thinks you're some kinda holy man.
On the deposition for the jUdge, Bernie... I mean there's no way I can promise anything.  I can't tell him what we're up to...
You'll tell him I talked you out of jumping, right?  Just keep me outta prison.
I... I'll do the best I can, Bernie.
That's good enough for me.  You better take that "letter" there and get rid of it.
They're getting to their feet. They're standing up!
After what I did, how do you know I'll come through?  How do you know you can trust me?
Cause, bottom line, John, I ain't no different than all those dumb assholes down there.  We all trust you for Chrissake!  We...
Th-this was really dumb, coming out here.
Slow and easy, Bernie.
What made you do it, Bernie?  Go in the plane?
I dunno.  It was... an impulse. Me, wearing my good shoes.
Same with me, pretending I was you. An impulse.  Why not?  I had this shoe.
There was this kid there saying, "Go in there and save my father, mister." And I'm thinking about my boy Joey and this goddamn fireman my wife's seeing. It was like I was supposed to save myself.
Yeah, and with me it was like I was supposed to pretend the shoe was mine.
So now you gotta wear it, you poor bastard.  Everyday you gotta be everybody's hero.  People watching you all the time.  Waiting for you to make...  a slip.  Slip up.
Easy does it, partner.  It's gonna be fine.
Don't look down.  Keep your eyes...
Oh my God!  Bernie!
Dad!
Get in here, buddy.  You can't help him.
Don't reach out.  He'll pull you over!
NO!  NEVER REACH OUT!
Grab this!  Now!  Save yourself, you can't help him, he'll pull you over!
I'm gonna put this line around you.
 Put...the...line...on...him.
You can't hold him, he's gonna pull you off.
If he doesn't make it... I... don't...  make it.  Got it?
 Yessir!  I got it!  Loud and clear!
 Zooming in tighter yet, he captures the stark drama at great personal risk. (humbly responding to an imaginary interviewer) "Was I afraid?  Well, you don't think about yourself at moments like that.  You think about the f-stop, you think about focus, you think about the 11 o'clock news, everybody counting on you."
Bernie?  Bernie?
LaPlante, you crazy bastard!
He's one of your clients?
LaPlante.  Mmmmmmmm.  LaPlante.
-MOTEL ROOM -CHEAP HOTEL LOBBY -BAR -JAIL CELL
Looking... good, partner.  Hang in there.
 Y-you're a g-god damn saint, John.
It was a moment of terrible weakness.  I was feeling... I guess you'd call it "overwhelmed" by all the pressures and... the expectations of... fame... celebrity.  I just didn't feel... adequate... to everybody's image of me... so... I took my despair out on that ledge with the intention of...  jumping...
 In doing that I endangered the lives of hardworking policemen and firemen who attempted to rescue me, not to mention the life of my dear friend, Bernard LaPlante...
Who is Bernard LaPlante?  Did you know that LaPlante is a convicted criminal?  What is your relationship with Bernard LaPlante...?
Bernard LaPlante is a close friend who came to me in a time of need... at considerable risk to himself.
 I guess Bernie's made some mistakes.  I know I've made plenty myself.  In fact I don't know anyone who hasn't.  I think Bernie wants to be a private person and I I'm going to respect that.
What'd he say to you?  What'd you talk about?
Well, what he said to me was private.  But he gave me confidence in myself.  He told me I had a special opportunity, the chance to do some good in the world.
Hey!  How'd you get in?  Nobody's supposed to come in here!
I snuck in.
You media people, you think you can just go anywhere you want, spy on people.
Listen, Mister LaPlante... uh, Bernie... Who... are... you?
Who am I?  You're asking me?  You're the big expert for Chrissake!  I'm what?  The "Scumbag," right?  The sleazebag something or other, the blackmailer, the...
 Was it you?  In the plane?  Who saved my life?
 Me?  Listen, I don't give no interviews.  That was John Bubber. You wanna ask me questions, you could talk to my attorney, Miss O'Day.
 Mister LaPlante... Bernie... I... just for a few moments... I want to be a human being, not a reporter. I'm somebody who was going to die in a burning plane and I looked up, and some man came out of the smoke, his face smeared with mud, and soot and... and he... saved my... life. Off the record.  Was it you?  Why would you deny it if it was? Because you took my purse?  Why?
Lady, do I look dumb enough to run into a burning plane and save a bunch of strangers?  I ain't the type.
-- standing here in the lobby of the hotel with Evelyn LaPlante who says she is the wife of the mysterious Bernie LaPlante who was rescued from a fifteenth story ledge twenty minutes ago by John Bubber.
Oh shit!  Ev!  Joey!  For Chrissake!
 Mrs. LaPlante just told me that Bernard LaPLante spoke to her earlier today about "going away on a long trip" and wanting to say "goodbye" to his ten-year-old son, Joey.
I didn't know Bernie'd try and jump off a building.  I didn't understand.  I just thought he was up to his old... I mean, I didn't even know...
TV!  Christ Almighty!  You cannot believe one word on TV!  Not one goddamn word!
What kind of man is your ex-husband Mrs. LaPlante?
 Bernie LaPlante is a wonderful decent human being.  Deep down. You just have to know him...
It's all bullshit!  I swear to God!
I guess you love your father too, Joey?
LEAVE MY BOY ALONE, YOU ASSHOLE!
Yeah, my dad's great.  He took me to the zoo.
 JOEY!
How did you feel, Joey, seeing your father up there on that ledge?
I was scared but... but... but...
But what, son?
But I knew John Bubber would save him!
Were you afraid?  Look this way, John.  John, over here.  Mister Bubber, do you believe in God?
Mister Bubber!  Mister Bubber! JOHN!
John Bubber... how does a person know when he's a hero... and when he's not.
Well, like.  I said, Miss... uh, Gale, I think we're all heroes. If you catch us at the right moment.  We all have something noble and decent in us trying to get out... and we all have moments of weakness.
It's the media that notices one moment and one person and not another.  I'm just another human being like the next person, full of frailty with some courage and decency mixed in.
What a crock of shit!  Have you ever heard more bullshit and drivel from somebody who wasn't President?
It's not unthinkable.
What?
The Presidency.  The public loves him.
For ten more minutes they love him, Wally.  I'm sick of him and I'm always about ten minutes ahead of the public.
You remember where I said how I was gonna explain about life, buddy?  Well, the thing about life is...  it gets weird.  See people are always gonna be talking to you about "truth." Everybody always knows what the truth is, like it was toilet paper or something and they got a supply in the closet. But what you learn as you get older is, there ain't no truth. All there is is bullshit (pardon my vulgarity here).  Layers of it. One layer of bullshit on top of another.  So what you do in life, like when you get older, is you pick the layer of bullshit you prefer and that's your bullshit, so to speak.  You got that?
 Uh, no.
Mmmmm.  Well, it's complicated. Maybe when you're older.  Anyhow, what I'm gonna tell you here is in strict confidence, okay?  It don't go no further.  What happened is, you remember that night I was gonna take you to the movies an' it was raining like a sonofabitch, (there's gonna be some vulgarities)..?
