I have a theory about how this all started...
Why did you do that?
Because you smell like dog poo.
You're so stupid just like dog poo! You're made of poo!
Made.    Poo.
Honey, do you know why that little boy did those things? And said those things?
Because he LIKES YOU.
Uh - excuse me -- but what - the - HELL? Where did that rumor start? Because moms have been spreading it for years.
That little boy is doing those terrible things because he HAS A CRUSH ON YOU.
Do you understand what this means? We are all encouraged to believe that if a guy acts like a total jerk -- that means he likes you. Sure, that's a lesson that might serve us as five year olds, but many of us keep believing this advice well into adulthood.
Then, as we get older, we carry on this tradition of misreading the signals men send by encouraging our friends to do the same...
That Phi Delt so obviously liked you. I'm sure he just lost your number.
He's not asking you out because he's intimidated by your professional success and emotional maturity.
Trust me. It's because he's just getting out of a serious relationship.
I'm sure he forgot your hut number.    Or didn't get enough approval from his father. Or was eaten by a giraffe.
Why do we say this stuff to each other? Why do we tell each other these lies?
Is it possible that it's because we're too scared, and it's too hard, to say the one obvious truth that's staring everyone in the face?
So, Janine told me you're a real estate agent.
Yeah. But don't worry - not one of the cheesy ones who puts his headshot on bus benches and grocery carts.
So just like on frisbees and notepads?
You got it.
Much classier.
My thoughts exactly.
I wonder why Janine never thought of introducing us before?
Yeah, I don't know, I ummm -
You guys ready for another round?
You want one more?
Only if you do. But I mean, if you have to get going I totally ...
Umm.    OK.   Sure. One more.
You had Ketel and soda, right?
Well, Conor, I had a really nice time.
Yeah.    It was really nice meeting you.
B-bye.
Hey, it's me. He's cute. I think it went well.
And I think he might me leaving me a message at home as - we - speak.
Hey, it's me...I just wanted you to know that I was thinking about you.
Conor, that's so nice.     Thank you.
Do you want to go ahead?
Hmm?
Go ahead?   You've only got two things.
 Hold on.
You've only got one thing.
Well, technically it's six. And I'm still mulling over a gum purchase. So...
 Hey, let me call you right back.
Oh my word.
Come on. Seriously. I just deposited money today. There's no way -
It's not that. Let me check something.
What?
Our "Sizzlin' Summer" promotion.     You're our 1000th customer in June.
Are you kidding?
Do I have that kind of manner? A joking manner?
I swear to god, this is the most exciting thing that's ever happened to me.
Really?
Is that sad?
No, it's - charming.     Congratulations.
Wait, no. I can't accept this. You were here first. I didn't win at all.
Yes, you did. Trust me - it's fate.      You were meant to have that cooler.
Thank you SO MUCH.
Hey.    How was the date?
Fine.   You know.
Why are you here?
My cable's out.
You didn't hear the phone ring, did you?
Nope.
Shit. Anna gave me the "I'll call you right back."
How long ago?
22 minutes.
Sorry, dude.
Do I call back?
I know. I'll call back and say that I'm going to bed.
At 9:30 PM?    Genius.
It is genius. Because then I can say: "In case you were going to call me back - don't - 'cause I'll be sleeping."
Sounds foolproof.
Sorry.   What was I saying?
I think you were telling me how you don't want to be like your mom and wake up and realize you didn't pursue your dreams.
Was I? Little intense for grocery store chatter. Sorry.
It's OK. I might even be able to help you out. There's a guy at my firm who has exclusively music clients.
That would be - amazing.      What are you - like my savior?
OK. Look.      I'm married.   I don't do this.
Don't do what? Help struggling singers?
Help hot Pilates instructing singers who happen to be very charming.
Do you want to give me your card? That's legit. I bet you're allowed to do that.
Right.   OK.   I guess that would be OK.
So, who was that?
A prospective client.
Yeah right.
I can talk to a woman Neil.        It doesn't have to be like that.
Just drive.
Hey, babe.    You here?
Hey honey.
Everything OK?
Yeah.   Just got off the phone.
You want some tea or something?
It was my baby sister.        She's getting married.
That's great. I've always liked that Devon guy. That's really great.
Do you think it's great?
Yeah.
So, you think it's great that they're getting married, but you never feel like we're going against nature or something by not getting married?
No, babe.
Going against nature is like that cat who started nursing that monkey. We're just two people who aren't married.
Right.
I actually think the odds of having a successful relationship increase by not getting married. Look at my parents - all marriage got them was thirty two years of misery and joint checking.
Yeah, I know. I get that.
Like I've always told you - I love you - and we don't need a marriage certificate to legitimize our relationship.
Yeah.
Lemme get you some tea.
OK, so clearly he hasn't called.
Maybe he's away on business.
He sells real estate. In Baltimore. Staying in town is his business.
Right.
Look, let me tell you - after the first time I went out with Ben, he didn't call me for eleven days. ELEVEN DAYS. And now he's like the world's best husband. That happens all the time.
Really?
Yes, really.
This is all your fault.
What?    Why?
You set me up with him.
No - you asked if I knew any guys and I gave Conor your number. That's not a set up. When I do a set up - I weigh pros and cons. I do my due diligence. All I know about Conor is he sold us this house.
He sold you a house in the ghetto.
It's a neighborhood "in transition."
Seriously, stop.
He said he always hangs at Red Maple after work. Maybe I should do a little drive-by?
Please, don't. He'll call.
Caller ID was the worst thing that's ever happened to me. Total invasion of my personal freedom. When a guy doesn't call me, it is my right - my duty even - to call him and hang up several thousand times. Or at least until his mother shouts at me in Albanian and blows a police whistle into the phone. I mean, calling and hanging up is an age old expression of love and frustration and too many wine coolers - and who is AT& f'ing T to take that away from me?
Next thing you know, someone is going to ban me from sitting in my car in front of a guy's house, blaring "Where Is Your Heart" by Kelly Clarkson until his new stupid girlfriend comes outside and threatens to scratch my eyes out with her acrylics. I mean, a girl deserves freedom of expression, right?
Mom, I gotta call you back.
So, this was at the end of the date, or at the beginning?
End.   Why - does it matter?
Yeah. "Nice meeting you" at the beginning of the date is normal. "Nice meeting you" at the end could be a blow off.
Maybe it was at the beginning.
Then that's fine. He's gonna call.
Or maybe it was at the end.   Or maybe it was nice to meet me.
Wait - was it "nice meeting you" or "nice to meet you"?
Shit.   I can't remember.
"Nice to meet you" is OK. "Nice meeting you" is like "Do you want your receipt in the bag?"
Remember the days when you guys at least pretended to be working when I came in?
Janine, how's the press release?
Beckon the baking to begin! McCormick, the flavor expert, introduces five fun filled flavors that will definitely delight dessert divas!
Maybe a shade heavy on the alliteration - but otherwise good.  Where are we with the company newsletter?
I am so almost done with that. It's just been a little hard to focus on my article about the two sets of twins in market research, when the guy - who may or may not be the guy of my dreams - refuses to call me.
Look, after my first date with Neil, I called him. There are no rules anymore. Why should you have to wait for him to get off his ass?
It's ringing.
Pretty standard.
 Yes!   Voicemail.
Your notes.
 Hey, Conor. It's Gigi. I just thought, I hadn't heard from you and, I mean how stupid is it that a gal has got to wait for a guy's call anyway, right?
 I mean, we're all equal, right? More than equal -- more women are accepted into law school now than men, and we do better in those police simulations where you can mistakenly shoot innocent people -  - I mean I don't know if you saw that Dateline - but women practically have penises now, right?  Well, call me. This is Gigi. Call me.
Don't worry.    He's totally gonna call.
WHAT?   How can there be no dial tone?
Mom? Is that you? I can't talk now. I'll call you back.
Janine. It's me. Conor never called, so I'm on the precipice of staging a casual run-in at Red Maple. Pick up if you want to stop me. 
tacit-compliance-bye.
Knock knock.
Hey.
So.    Here we are. Same shift again.
I know.    I make the schedule.
I had fun the other night.
Yeah. It's amazing where 10 shots of Patron will get you.
Anyway - I was thinking, maybe tonight after work...we could, you know...
Look, Kelli Ann - what happened between us the other night was - fun. But we're way understaffed tonight - I even have to man the bar - and that's why I scheduled you. To work. So...
Are we good here?
No.    We're good.
Dude.
I know.
Are you joining us for dinner or -
I'm meeting someone.       A guy.
Ugh.    Why?
Hmmmm?
Nothing.   Sorry. For dinner?
I'm meeting someone.
I believe you mentioned that.
I'm gonna wait at the bar.
That's a great idea.
What can I get you?
Oh, that's OK. I'm meeting someone.
Oh, yeah?    Got a hot date?
I don't know if you'd call it hot -- I mean this guy Conor and I have only been out the one time so --
Wait - Conor Barry?
Oh, uhh, yeah --
Conor's not coming in tonight. Did he forget he was supposed to meet you?
See when I said "meeting someone" I guess that was kind of a broad term, kind of a wide interpretation of the word "meeting"-
Because I could just call him --
NO! I mean, totally unnecessary. I mean, I actually was just - in the area - so I figured I'd just swing by and see if he was around - because - uhhh ---
I uhh, had to return his --
Pen. I had to return this - pen. He left this. So, I thought I should really return it before he - you know -  -- freaks out.
Dr. Frankel - Adult, Child and Geriatric Dentistry.
Look, I'm not gonna judge about what may or may not be important to someone.
That's not even his dentist.
Oh, really?   Then who's his dentist?
My dad.
I'm Gigi. Conor and I went out last week. And I just...I thought if I ran into him...I don't know. I'm gonna go.
Hey. Just - hang out for a second. Lemme buy you a drink.
Look, you seem like a cool girl, so I'm just gonna be honest - Conor is never going to call you.
Oh really? How do you know?
Because I'm a guy.   It's how we do it.
I don't care if he said you were his favorite female since his mommy and Joanie Cunningham. Over a week went by - and he didn't call.
But maybe he called me and I didn't get the message. Or maybe he lost my number, or was out of town, or was hit by a cab, or his grandma died.
Or maybe he just didn't call because he has no interest in seeing you again.
Yeah but my friend Terri once went out with this guy who never called and she totally wrote him off - then like a year later she ran into him --
Your friend Terri's an idiot.   And she's the exception.
OK.   But what if I'm the exception?
You're not. You're the rule. And the rule is - if a guy doesn't call you, he doesn't want to call you.
Really?     Always?
Yeah. Always. I know what blowing off a woman looks like. I do it early and I do it often. Trust me - if a guy is treating you like he doesn't give a shit - - he doesn't. No exceptions.
Why are you telling me all of this? Aren't these man-secrets - like why men need to watch televised golf?
I don't know. You looked like you could really use the help.
Thank you. You've given me a lot to think about.
Everything OK?
I was up all night.
Please say you were working on the newsletter.
Sure. It's basically done.   But this is important.
What's happening with your hair?
Please come in my office before the others see that you have mini muffin stuck in your hair.
I think I figured it out. Remember when I went out with that notary public? And he cheated on me? And then Anastasia from upstairs told us that story about how her boyfriend cheated on her at the beginning - but then he totally changed and they're married and crazy in love.
I thought that guy was a process server.
No, notary. Anyway, the point is - Anastasia is the exception. Not the rule. We have to stop listening to these stories - because the rule is that most guys who cheat on you up front don't really care about you very much.
Okay...
Exhibit A: Chad, the drummer who lived in his storage space. He only used me for rides, yet I continued to stalk him for most of 1998. Then there was Don, who broke up with me every Friday so he could have his weekends free. I was so delusional about our relationship that I referred to him as my husband to random people like my dental hygenist.
And all my friends would tell me stories about how things might work out with these dipshits because they knew someone who knew someone who dated a dipshit just like mine, and that girl ended up getting married and living happily ever after. But that's the exception. And we're not the exception - we're the rule.
OK. So let me see if I understand. What you're saying is that when people tell me about some girl they know who dated a guy for thirteen years, and then he finally married her -- that's the exception. And the rule is that guys - like Neil - who are with girls - like me - for seven years without getting married - are never getting married.
No. No, no, no. That's not what I'm saying. This has absolutely nothing to do with you. I was just talking, you know, about me. Specifically.
It is impossible not to like this guy. I'm pretty sure he was heavily flirting with me outside Eddie's, and then he tells me he's married. You'd think I'd be pissed, but I literally could not stop myself from liking him.
But he's married.
I realize that. I keep trying to force myself to picture him in some church saying vows to some woman, and even that doesn't cool it off. What is my problem?
OK. There was this guy who worked in my dad's printing business. Married for fifteen years to a nice lady. And then he meets this woman at some church event. And he told my dad he just had never felt anything like it before. I mean, he had finally met the love of his life. So, he divorced his wife, and he's been with this other woman for 22 years and they are blissfully happy. I mean, what if you meet the love of your life - but you already married someone else? Are you supposed to pass them by?
You're right. I'm calling him.
Hey, Ben.    This is Anna Marks.
Hey, Anna.   What's up?
Well, I was just taking you up on your offer. You said you might know someone who could help me out and I thought we could discuss it -- over coffee?
Look, I just...I can't Anna. You seem great. It's just - I don't know. I should go. Take care.
I am so psyched that you called.
Cool.
I had sort of given up on you when you didn't call me back the other night.
Well, you know. I was just thinking about you.
Your turn.
OK.   Give me the categories again.
There are four. Sexy, smart, funny or cute. And each person can only be two. Like Sarah Jessica Parker is funny and sexy. Or Bill Clinton is sexy and smart.
I love that you are hot for Clinton.
So, which am I?
What was I again?
Smart and cute.
OK.   You're sexy. Very sexy.    And cute.
No. Cute and sexy are in the looks column. No one wants to be in all one column.
Well, I sound like a jackass if I say you're all four. But you're so obviously all four. Especially sexy.
You're the best.
I better go.
Oh. OK. I mean, you could just stay here tonight.
What?   It's been a while.
I know. It's just - I'm fried.    Is that alright?
Sure.   Of course.
Hey babe, is this straight?
Why are you hanging that?
I told you I'd do it weeks ago.   You don't like it there?
I love it there. But just - stop.
It's the image, isn't it? I didn't see it before, but - you're right - it totally looks like a sagging boob.
You want me to take it down?
No.     I want you stop doing anything nice.
Is this a trick?
No. I need you to stop being nice to me - unless you're gonna marry me after.
Is that funny?
No.     It was just - I was just--
See, you can't keep being nice to me and I can't keep pretending like this is something that it's not. We've been together over seven years. You know me. You either want to marry me or you don't.
Or there is the possibility that I just don't really believe in the concept of -
BULLSHIT! BULLSHIT! Bullshit for every woman who's been told by some guy that he doesn't believe in marriage just to see him turn around eight months later and marry some twenty four year old girl he met at the gym. Bullshit.
Honey, where is all this coming from?
From the place that I have been hiding from you for the last five years because I didn't want to seem demanding, or clingy or psycho or whatever. So I never ask. But now I'm going to ---
Are you ever going to marry me?
I can't do this anymore.
I was with Damon for six years. He asked me to marry him on the phone, because he's just so different and cool like that. Said he'd eventually get me a ring, which he didn't, but he did buy himself a ring because isn't that so hilarious and cool that the guy is wearing the ring? Then, my favorite part is, I stayed with him even after he took back his proposal, and introduced the idea of a "relation vacation." Isn't that a cute name? Let me explain the concept: it involves dating a girl from the time she's thirty two to the time she's thirty nine, possibly robbing her of the ability to bear children, and then, after all that, wanting to take a year off. And giving it a fun name that you can put on t-shirts.  I left him.
Hey, Anna. This is Ben. Look, I know it's been a little while since you called. I just - it took me by surprise. But I offered to help you with your career, and I don't see why I can't do that, right? So, give me a call. Maybe you can come by the office this week or something. Okay, take care. Bye.
Hey, how --
Shit - you scared me.
Is everything OK?
Yeah.   Everything's fine.   Why?
Are you smoking again?
No, sweetie.    Why?
Well - you get jumpy when you smoke.
I'm not smoking. So, why don't we worry about what color we're gonna paint this room, instead of worrying about things that aren't happening?
I don't know - I was thinking maybe - pink?
Pink?   Seriously?
Well, I mean, at some point.
You sure we're ready for this now?
No. But I mean, we could paint one room pink and one blue just in case.
You've already created the perfect family in this house, and we don't even have drywall.
I'm sorry. I know I promised we'd wait to talk about it -
I think we're almost ready to start talking about it.
I've always liked the name Gisele.
Well, ladies, I guess I have to get back to the office.
You go back to the office after happy hour? What's happy about that?
I met you.
So, I'd love to call you sometime.    Do you have a card?
Of course.
And here's my info.
Look forward to hearing from you, Gigi.
So, wait -- how are we doing this? Are you hearing from me or am I getting a call?
What?
You said you'd love to call me, but then you said "look forward to hearing from you." See how that's kinda confusing?
Look - we'll talk. We'll get in touch.
Ooopsie - you did it again. Very vague. You know what? Why don't we just say that you'll call me, and then we can skip all the nonsense.
Or I guess I could just call you --
Goodbye, Gigi.
He was cute.
Please don't cyber-stalk him.
Wait - what are you doing?
I'm not calling him.    If he wants to see me - he'll call.
Wow, that guy Alex really made an impression on you. Was he hot?
No.   He was just -- right.
So?
He asked me out.
Oh my god!    He called?
Well -
He emailed?
Umm -
What? Did he travel by carriage and leave his calling card with your lady in waiting?
He MySpaced me.
Ouch.
I don't know. My slutty sister says MySpace is the new booty call.
Well, what am I supposed to do? Things have changed. People don't just meet organically anymore. If I want to make myself more attractive to the opposite sex, I don't go get a new haircut - I update my profile. That's just how it is.
Back to work.
Ad sales - this is Mary.
Hey, it's Conor. Anna's - uh - friend. Or whatever.
Hey.   So, did you see it?
I'm not sure about this.
You gotta trust me. It's a burgeoning market. You're gonna make a fortune.
Yeah. I hope so. But, like - did you have to put me on the page with the massage ads?
It was either that or on the page with the personals. I made a call.
OK. You're right.      Hey, have you talked to Anna lately?
I do not understand how you got mom to sew all of these in two weeks.
She wanted to do it.
Mom told me she felt like an old Indonesian lady in a sweatshop.
No, she didn't.
Why again do you need to get married so fast?
You're so pregnant.
I'm not pregnant.
Chug a beer, then. I want to see you chug a beer.
We're in love, you assholes. That's what people do when they're in love - they get married.
Bethie, you know I didn't mean --
It's OK.    Neil and I are actually - done - anyway.
Why didn't you tell us?    You should have told us.
You have to come over and have dinner with me and Steven and the kids tonight, OK? You can even stay over if you want.
Why would she want to hang out with us and our husbands? Seriously, Beth, isn't that exactly what you want to avoid right now?
You know what - if being in the wedding is too painful-
You guys, it's cool. I'm fine.    So I lost a little time. Big deal.
So not a big deal. You're still really young.
So young.
Everything you learned in that relationship is just gonna make the next one so much stronger.
Exactly.
She wasted so much time.
I knew he was never gonna propose.
Shit.
I know it's here somewhere. I spoke to George Lane in music, and he gave me this whole list of references for you.
It's cool.    You can call me when you find it.
I swear I didn't lure you here under false pretenses.
I know.   But a girl can dream.
You're obviously too good of a guy.
Why are you married, again?
Seriously. Why? It'll be good for me. Tell me how you decided that you could not be without this other woman.
We'd been together since college. She gave me an ultimatum: we get married or we break up. So, we got married.
Seriously?   You just caved?
It's complicated.
Really?
You're a dick if you date a girl for too long, and don't marry her. But you marry her, and then you're an asshole for marrying her before you're ready. Shit - I don't know.
You're really hot and I'm obviously attracted to you, but I guess the best I can do is eventually find this piece of paper, and call you, and hope I help in some small way with your career, and be happy about that.
Hi, this is Gigi.
Gigi?
Gigi Phillips. I had the - umm - dentist pen.
Right.
I'm really sorry to bug you. I just - I thought you had some really good insights the other night and -- I had a question.
Okay, maybe I need to be harsh -- Conor is never going to be interested in you.
No, I know. This is about -  - Jarrad. You have a sec?
Okay...
So I meet him at happy hour and he was completely charming --
Lemme guess - he said the only thing happy about this hour is you.
He may have used some derivative of that. So, he says he's going to call, but then gave me his card and --
He's not interested.
You don't even know if he called --
Did he?
No. But the thing is, I honestly think he's expecting my call.
He said "Look forward to hearing from you" and not "Look forward to talking to you." I mean, do you hear the connotations?
He.   Is.   Not. Interested.
Alex - this is jacked. The hostess is giving me shit for not wearing a white shirt -- this shirt is WHITE!
This shit is white.
If a guy gives you his phone number, instead of taking yours, he's not interested.
He took mine first, but then he --
And, if a guy wants to see you, he will see you. I once called 55 Lauren Bell's until I got the right one.
That's cute.    What happened?
As it turned out, her ass looked really huge in daylight.
Is it your sensitivity that makes you so popular with women?
Don't call him. He doesn't like you.
Again with the sensitivity.
Just trying to help.
I know.   Thanks.
Oh sweetie - you didn't have to get me anything.
Mom - you always say that and I always get you something.
You didn't.
It's no big deal.
What is it?
Tim Buckley.    Nice.
Here - put on my favorite.
Did Anna ever tell you I knew Tim Buckley?
No.   She did not.
We met at a coffee shop in 1971. Hell's Kitchen. I had no idea who he was. But he had this big mop of hair and these eyes that just looked past you and through you and into you all at the same time. Complete interest and disinterest. It was amazing.
Of course, I was with Anna's father at the time, so, you know...another opportunity missed.
Mom, please -
It's the truth. I knew them all. Robert Plant, Harry Nilsson, Graham Parsons...  Have you seen the pictures of me from when I was Anna's age?
Umm - I don't think so -
Sweetie go get that picture - you know the one -
Go. Your mother's asking you to do something for her on her birthday.
You'll see - we look strikingly similar. My lips may be a bit fuller, but...
Wow.   That's - unbelievable.
So that's what we're dealing with here, for reference. Imagine meeting someone who looks like that in a coffee shop.
That's funny, because, I mean, I guess I kinda did. Anna and I met at a restaurant. That serves coffee. So, not a coffee shop, but...still -
That's sweet. But if we're comparing stories -  She's no me - and you're no Tim Buckley.
Anyone need a refill?
Thanks again for coming with me.        You make it so much easier.
Are you kidding? I like your mom.        She's cool.
Yeah, well - cool's not always what you're looking for in a mom.
So, you want another -- foot rub?
Ugh. I'm just beat. I wanna put on sweats and get in bed.
I'd be into that.
I'll call you tomorrow, OK?
If a girl is into you, she's sleeping with you. And if after a month - two months at the very outside - she's not sleeping with you, she does not like you. I guess the trick is, how to spot this girl early - so you don't waste the one to seven weeks waiting to find out that it's never gonna happen. So, I've got some signs about how to spot this girl - gleaned from my own experience, of course. A girl will never sleep with you if: she calls you cuddly or dependable, she pops a zit in front of you, her name is Amber or Christine, she takes a dump in your bathroom or she takes home leftovers in dates 1-3. I know it's not scientific - but I'm just saying - you were warned.
Hey dude - you here?
Yep.
Wanna beer?
Or an apple martini?
Funny.
Need I ask?
It's for work. I'm trying to expand my client base.
By pretending you're gay?
No.   By being more gay friendly.
Or, in real estate terms, by becoming "gay adjacent".
Nice.    I may have to use that.
I'm gonna try something else. This may be too much.
I don't know. You dress like that - and you're already seeing a girl who won't sleep with you - I think maybe you can pull it off.
It's not that she won't sleep with me douchebag...I have slept with her. It's just, you know, she...um...
Won't sleep with you anymore.
Pretty much, yeah.  So, what do you think?
I think you're gonna have to beat 'em away with a stick - you hot, sexy man.
Who would have thought that a random girl from Pilates would fix me up with such a good kisser?
Back at you sister.
I can't wait to kiss you again.
Umm.   We're kissing right now.
I know. But next time. The second date kiss is way more intimate.
Well, I'm going out of town tomorrow - so I'll be out of touch for a bit.
Would you excuse me a quick second?    Too many diet cokes...
Yup.
Hey, sorry to bug you again.   Quick question.
 Would you excuse me a second, babe?
I'm making out with a guy - PG stuff - and then he mentions he's going out of town, so he's gonna be out of touch.
Run.
But maybe he is going out of town.
To where? The Arab Emirates? Where is he going that he has to be out of touch?
Where are you going out of town to again?
Pittsburgh.
Pittsburgh.
Run.
So, now what? I'm just supposed to run from every guy who doesn't like me?
Uhh - yeah.
There's not going to be anyone left.
OK, I don't know why I'm saying this - but I actually think I know a nice guy who you might like.
Yeah?
Yeah. He's a friend of my brother's. Bill. We'll all meet for a drink - it'll be good.
So, I'm in his bathroom right now.   What do I now?
You gotta come out eventually. But I'd really take my time. Let him sweat.
So, we ran into each other.
You came to my class.
I didn't know it was your class.
You called and asked me.
But you didn't call me back.
Because you said not to call back if it was my class. Which it was.
We ran into each other.
Totally. A couple of innocent folks - by happenstance - doing their daily workout near one another.
Exactly.   Thank you.
Wanna swim?
I was just thinking - why can't we be friends? Am I not allowed to make friends anymore? Am I not allowed to be friends with hot people? What kind of reverse prejudice is that?
I hear you. Am I supposed to not be friends with a guy just because he's married, and happens to have this insane smile and this ass that makes me want to dry hump?
I think I just fell in love.   A girl who talks about a dry hump.
Classy, right?
Classy is lame.
So, friends, right?
Totally.
You wanna come in?
I'm sorry.   I don't trust myself.
OK.   You can just watch.
You may be the best friend I've ever had.
Honey - you smell different.
Different how?
I don't know.
Well that's an odd thing to say.
Maybe it's the ashtray and cigarettes I found. In the side yard. What part of "my dad died of lung cancer" is hard for you to wrap your brain around?
What?
Do not lie to me, Ben.      Please.
Are you serious? We have like eight thousand undocumented workers in this house daily. You find cigarettes, and you automatically assume they're mine?
Well, yes.
Honey, I'm not lying. And you are really freaking out. I think the renovation is getting to you because nothing is going on. Just please - relax.
Ah.     My first visitor.
This boat is sick. How come you never invited me out before?
Well, this was supposed to be just for Beth and I - for our retirement. Leave our jobs. Sell the house. Take off.
Sorry. Where are my manners? Permission to board granted. I'll show you around.
 Sorry.
It's OK.
So Janine sent you to check on me?
Yeah.    Pretty much.
Any message from Beth?
I think she's been busy getting ready for her sister's funeral though, so...
Her sister's what?
Wedding.    Her sister's wedding.   What did I say?
You said funeral.
No, I didn't. Shit, did I?
The marriage thing is weird, man. I never thought Beth would give me an ultimatum.
Really?     Why not?   That's what women do.
Right. I forgot. That's how Janine got you to bite the bullet.
Yup.
Do you regret it?
No.
So you're happy? You'd say you're happily married?
I love Janine.
Now, I know when my cousin Paige says those vows tomorrow, there are going to be hearts breaking all over the world.
So, keep in mind, her sister Beth is still on the market.
Sure, she's an older model, but she's still got a lot of miles left in her. But don't stay on the lot too long, Bethie, or next year's models will --
OK - that's enough of the speeches. Time to eat. So enjoy the crab. And the yellow stuff is not hot mustard, it's the crab's hepatopancreas.
Bethie, your cousin Jay has always been a jackass.
I know.    And even he's married.
So, you'll get married a little bit later than some people. Big deal. You never did anything the way every one else did it, and that's what I've always thought was so great about you.
I'm your oldest daughter, and I'm the only one not married. If this was Fiddler on the Roof you'd have to sacrifice me or something.
Honey, look. When everyone else was just going to camp at the Y, you borrowed my New York Times, found some arts camp in the Berkshires, wrote away for information, then got accepted on your own. You were nine. You never did things the way everyone else did.
Why not?
Because that's you.   That's why you're my favorite daughter.
I don't think you're supposed to say that.
Well, I don't give a shit. I'm retired, and I'll say what I want. I'll say it into the mic if you want --
That's OK.
It's true, though.
I know.
Sorry I'm late.
That's OK. I like a little time before a blind date - prepare myself mentally, remind myself not to tell the story about my molars --
He's not coming.
Can't wait to hear that story about the molars, though.
How can he already not like me?
I screwed up. I told Bill it was Thursday, but I meant Tuesday.
Awesome. I'm stuck here with a guy who can't distinguish Tuesday from Thursday - and meanwhile this girl -  - she's probably meeting her soul mate as we speak.
Nope.
How do you know?
See the guy trying to work the Tom Cruise thing. She's interested. He's not.
You cannot tell from a cursory glance that he's not interested.
Actually, I can. I manage a restaurant. I see this stuff go down every night. Watch --
Man, you have a gift.
And check out droopy dawg on her other side. He can buy her drinks all night, and she'll insist there's no "spark."
Maybe there isn't.   You need a spark.
The "spark" thing is bullshit.
Really?    Enlighten me.
Guys invented the "spark" so they could not call and treat you kind of bad and keep you guessing, and then convince you that the anxiety and fear that it creates in you is actually a "spark." And you all buy it. You love it. You all thrive on it because you all love drama.
I don't.
Really? So you don't wait until the last minute on deadlines, or on phone bills, because you love the drama of not knowing whether you'll make it?
Maybe.
And let me guess - when you were stalking Conor that night - were you obsessing about him calling for days, even though the date was just kind of mediocre?
OK.   Yeah.
See, you thrive on drama. You gotta be more like me - if a girl likes me great, if not, there are plenty more like her - probably with smaller pores and bigger implants.
That's beautiful.
Thanks.
Why are you sharing all this inside dating information with me again?
I dunno.    I like you.
You do?
Don't start doodling my name on your binder. I just mean, I like you, like I like basset hounds. They're kinda pathetic - so you want to cheer them up.
Again with the sensitivity.
It looks good.
Yes.
He does good work.
He's very good.
Javier.
Yes.
Javier, if I asked you an honest question, do you think you could give me an honest answer?
I think so.
Good. Because I think some of your guys have been - smoking.
Javier?
Is that the question?
Yes.
Oh.    It seemed like a statement.
The question part was implied -
I didn't really hear it in the inflection-
Javier - have your guys been smoking or not?
No, ma'am. My guys don't smoke on the job site. They're all good guys.
Are you sure your guys aren't sneaking around here? And smoking? And lying to me? And -- smoking?
I'm pretty sure.
I need you to be honest with me, Javier. Because I can't have someone lying to me. To my face. Under my roof. On my time.
 That's a lot of prepositions...
I mean, there is no reason for that kind of dishonesty, is there? IS THERE? I mean, we made promises to one another --
What I mean is, we had a contract. Which is like making promises to each other, right?
Maybe I should just get back to work.
Yes.   Fine.    Good idea.
But, we're good here, right?     Me and you?
Okay, great.     The molding really does look great.
Hello, my name is Conor. Please sign in whenever you get a chance.
This is insane. You're like the Liza Minelli of real estate.
I know.    Your friend Mary's a genius.
Alright.   Gotta run.
You got a class?
Uh, no.   Just some stuff.    See you later?
Sure.
What?
She's holding out on you, isn't she?
I'm not sure I get your meaning.
It's obvious. She won't sleep with you. It's written all over your puppy dog face.
It's killing me. Literally.     I'm dying.
Here, have a cookie.
I just - I have no idea what she's doing. I cannot read her signals - at all. We used to sleep together - all the time. Well, that's not true, I don't know why I said that, it wasn't all the time. But it did happen - I know I'm not making this up. And then, out of nowhere, it stops. But she still calls, she stops by, she sleeps on my couch, she wants a massage, she leaves cute messages - but it never goes ANYWHERE. I mean, what is she doing?
Honestly - we may not have the best insight. Gay signals have nothing to do with straight signals.
He's right. Like - here's "I want to sleep with you".
One, two, three - that's it.   Three seconds or more - it's on.
Here's "I don't want to sleep with you."
One, two -  No. Thanks for playing.    Move along.
It's that simple.
You're right. That's no help at all.
But listen - I can tell you this. Gay or straight, you're not going to get anywhere by being inactive. She clearly likes you - maybe she just wants you to be a man and do something. So the next time you're in the position - don't take no for an answer.
That sounds like felonious advice.
You're right. Let me rephrase.    Don't take maybe for an answer.
Wait.   Stop.
What?
Shit.   This is bad.
What?
I am so into you.
I'm lying here watching you and I seriously have never felt this way before. I have to forcibly make my brain stop thinking about you. I mean, all the time.
Why stop?
Because I don't do stuff like this.
Stuff like what?
Like having sex with women who are not my wife.
First of all, I'm not women.   I'm just one.
What's second of all?
I didn't have a second of all.
I thought second of all was going to make me feel better.
Second of all - I can't stop thinking about you, either.
I have to tell her.
What?
I have to tell her.
I don't want to push you to --
I want to be with you. And I can't do that if I'm lying to her.
You know what's best.
Here's the thing - my daughter is happily married with kids and running a tanning salon on Staten Island. But if she wasn't, I'd tell her the same thing I'd like to tell a lot of the girls that come in and out of this building on the arm of a married guy.
And here is that advice --- get stocks, cash, annuities, a deed in your name. Don't settle for flowers and a shopping spree at Bendel's. Think to the future. We all know that none of these guys is gonna leave his society wife and let her keep half the money and the classic eight on Park Avenue. So, I wanna tell these young ladies, as long as you only have the guy for a finite period of time -- get something that can last. Because I guarantee you - he won't. And that's the best fatherly advice I can give.
I'm not picking out china patterns or anything - but I've never felt anything like this before.
This is crazy. I can't believe he's gonna leave his wife for you.
No, he's not leaving his wife for me. He's just - he's a good guy. And he can't really explore what we could be if he's lying to her.
He's kind of leaving his wife for me. Is this crazy? This is totally crazy. We barely know each other.
I don't know.   Remember Becca, my sister's friend. Some guy waits on her at Bennigan's - by the end of the night they both knew they had found the one.
You're totally right.   It can happen.
Not for me.
Well, what about texter?
Texter has yet to make any verbal contact. I mean, this guy could have had surgery that left him without a voice box, breathing through a stoma, and I'd never know because I never actually hear his voice.
I doubt he has a stoma -
That's not the point. The point is - I can't text. I'm not charming via text. My sarcasm doesn't come through, I can't type fast enough on the little phone keyboard --
So don't text.
It's not just texting. It's email and voicemail and snail mail -
That's just mail -
Whatever. None of it's working. I've had a guy leave a voicemail for me at work, and then I call him back at home, and he emails me to my Blackberry, and then I text him to his cell and then he emails me to my home account from the plane phone -- and it just totally gets out of hand. I miss the days where you had one phone number with one answering machine that housed one cassette tape and either the cassette tape had a message from the guy or it didn't. That's it. Now you have to go around checking all your portals and get rejected by seven different technologies. It's exhausting.
So what about the singer guy?
Jude.    Yeah, I like him.
That's great.
Totally.     I felt like we connected.
Hello.
Oh, hey.     You're home.
Where am I supposed to be?
Out.    It's Saturday night.
You won't let me go out with guys who don't like me. It's kind of limiting.
I was just calling to let you know - I'm having a party at my place next weekend. You should come.
I don't know. Won't Conor be there? Might be kinda awkward.
He's in DC for the weekend at some real estate conference. But there's gonna be a bunch of single guys.
So I will have plenty of chances to be awkward. Thank god.
Don't worry. I'll be there.      I'll talk you through it.
So, the party - is it like a big party, more of a mellow hang or --
Yeah, OK. Gotta go - I think someone just dropped 84 wine glasses.
Amanda Jones is no minor leaguer who'll be swept off her feet at the touch of your amateur lips.
I think I can handle it.
It's cool. I was just gonna work on it with you but - if you're comfortable...great.
Wait.   How do you work on it?
Pretend I'm a girl, OK?    I mean, pretend I'm her...Amanda.
He's into me.
Awesome. I knew it.  Who's this now?
Alex. It's totally clear to me now. He's Watts.
What?
From Some Kind of Wonderful.
Wait, isn't Mary Stuart Masterson Watts?
Yes.
So, why aren't you Watts?
I'm Eric Stoltz.
What?
Alex is Watts because Watts helps Eric Stoltz go on a date with Amanda Jones, but really she's in love with Eric Stoltz herself.
Wait - so who's Amanda Jones?
I guess Conor at first. Now men in general. But that's not the point.    The point is -- he's into me.
You know, I knew there had to be a reason he was spending all that time with you.
I know! It's so obvious now -- there are so many signs.
Oooh, gimme the signs.   I love to hear about the signs.
At first they were small - like when I first called he said "Good to hear from you" -
Totally good sign.
Right? And then the next time I called he was with a woman - but he still took the call. And talked to me for a while.
You know it was a woman?
He called her "babe."
A guy does not leave a woman - to talk to another woman - unless there's something going on.
I know! And it gets more obvious. I mean, please - there was no guy he was going to fix me up with. The fix up was him.
Wait - really?
He shows up - without this fictitious Bill character - and the two of us basically have a date. And then he calls me to invite me to a party at his place.
You're right. He so likes you.
Let's look up places for your destination wedding. Would you guys wanna do Napa Valley - I've always wanted to go there.
There's no way he's already called - we only met for coffee last night. I mean we video iChatted. While holding coffee. Kinda like having coffee.
Just call your voice mail.
And he told me he had a gig last night, so he probably got in real late. Did I tell you he was singer?
Just call.
On speaker.
 Maaaary. Mary, Mary, Mary, Maaaary.   Oh my Maaary.
I just got hard.
Hey Mary, it's Jude. Just wanted to tell you again how special it was to meet you. So, call me back. Bye.
Amazing.    He'll sing to your babies.
 Jeeeeny. Jenny, Jenny, Jenny, Jeeeeny.
Hey Jenny, it's Jude. Just wanted to -- oh shit, - what number did I call?
That one.
No.   That's the laminate.
That one isn't real hardwood floor?
No. But it looks exactly the same - at like one one hundredth of the cost.
I still wanna go with the real wood.
But you can't even tell the difference.
That's not the point.
Then what's the point?
I just don't like the way it's pretending to be wood. If you're not wood, then don't try to look like wood.
I don't think it's pretending --
It's a lie. Just be up front - tell people what you really are.
You're right. I'm sorry.      You're totally right.
It's OK. Maybe we should look at the grills and come back.
I slept with someone.
I heard you.
You tell me this in Home Depot because you know how I hate a public scene.
That is not why I -
I knew it.     I KNEW IT.   You asshole.
I'm sorry.    I'm so sorry.
And it's you that's been smoking, too, isn't it?
What?   Why does that matter?
No.   No.    I haven't.
Look, I talked to Neil, and he said I could stay on his boat for a while if --
EXCUSE ME? And now you want to move out? You're like - what - leaving me?
No. NO. I just assumed that you wouldn't want me to --
We're not going to deal with this? We're not going to figure out a way to work through this?
I just assumed that once I told you, you would want me -- out.
Is that what you want?
 No.
You must be Beth.
Yep.
I've heard a lot about you from Paige. I'd been lobbying for weeks to be seated next to her single sister.
Oh, yeah? So you are -  Dan.
Uh, sort of.
Hmmm?
Well, I'm actually a wiccan.    So I have a magickal name.
Really?
It's Brother Phoenix East-Horse. But I didn't know if that would fit on a card.
It makes your breath stink.
Pardon?
Chex Mix. I learned the hard way. I made out with a guy after eating like a bag of the stuff. He said my breath smelled like trout.
Thanks for the tip.
I'm sorry. That was rude. And that guy I made out with was a total asshole.
You want me to smell you?   I'm sure you don't smell like trout.
Thanks.   I'm good.
I'm Nathan.   This is Bruce.
Gigi.   How do you guys know Alex?
We don't. Our friend Mary heard about it from some guy named Conor.
How do you know Alex?
I hope - I mean I'm pretty sure - something is about to happen between us.
So, you're here as like a guest, or like his date?
I hate that - when you don't know if you're a date - so you don't know if you should bring a friend, or if you're like co-hosting or if you should stay til the end to have alone time --
He didn't really say.
But I'm sure I'm more than just a guest. I mean - there have been signs.
Cool.
I did get a slight waft of trout, though. Take a mint.
Thank you.
So, where's Neil?
We actually broke up.
No way. You guys were together for like ten years.
Seven.   But yes, a long time.
Too bad cousins can't marry, huh?    Cuz then we could maybe --
Eeew Dominic, gross.
I had no idea it would be such a madhouse.
Hey.   Great party.
Are any guys hitting on you? Do you need me to evaluate their level of interest?
They were gay. Even I know that their level of interest was probably low.
Well - too bad Bill couldn't make it. I still think you guys would hit it off.
Oh OK.  Right.  "Bill".
Anyway - I'm on my way to put out some more liquor. But it looks like the food could use some refreshing --
Would you mind helping? I mean, just refill the chips and stuff?
You mean, kind of like --- co-hosting?
Uhh, OK.   The chips are on top of the fridge.
Really great party.
Thanks. When Alex said he wanted to have a party, I was like "Let's do it."
Thanks so much for having us.
No problem.   Anytime.
Can I help you find something?
No, that's OK. I got it.
Thanks for mixing that up.
What?
Alex asked me to get the dip together. Thanks for getting it started.
Hmmm - could use a little more dill.
When someone's underwear ends up in your toaster oven - it's been a good party.
I guess people had fun.
Alex, you want me to start cleaning up?
That's sweet of you. But I thought I'd stick around, so I'll take care of it.
No.   I got it.
Knock yourselves out.
I think I've rounded up the last of the beer bottles.
So, umm - what game is this?
Well, maybe I should just -- you know -- I mean it's past three and --
YES!!    Suck it!
You are sensational.
Did you say it's past three?     Man, I gotta go.
Thanks for staying and helping clean up - but I really gotta get to bed.
Is that an invitation?
What?
I'm sorry. That was cheesy.      I'm not good at this.
Yes!
I knew it. I knew it. The best relationships grow out of friendships.
Wait - what?
Ummmm....
Now you and I are in a relationship?
Well, I'd say if we're not at relationship station--ship, we're at least on the track.
And why would you think that, exactly?
Because there were - you know - signs.
Really?   Like what?
Ummm - it was good to hear from me. You talked to me even when you were with a girl. I felt something...
What are you talking about? What have I been saying since I met you? If a guy wants to date you HE WILL MAKE IT HAPPEN.
Why would you do this?
I thought you were Watts.
Why do women do this? Why do they build this stuff up in their minds, take each little thing a guy does and twist it into something else --
I'd rather be like that - than like you.
Excuse me?
Maybe I dissect each little thing, and put myself out there too much, and maybe I even thrive on the drama of it all-- but at least that means I still care. You think you've won because women are expendable to you? Sure, you don't get hurt or make an ass of yourself that way, but you don't fall in love that way, either. You haven't won, Alex. You're alone.
I may do a lot of stupid shit - but I know I'm a lot closer to finding someone than you are.
Hey Janine, I'm sorry it's so late, but I just - don't start picking out your bridesmaid dress, OK? I know this isn't the first time this has happened, it's just - this one wasn't about whether he liked me. I just really liked him.
You want anything else?
Yeah. Less of that cardboardy brown stuff. More regular people food.
The cardboardy brown stuff is called whole grain bread.
Maybe you could just fry me up a couple sausage links?
People who have just had heart attacks generally are not advised to eat animal fat, stuffed in synthetic casings.
Did I tell you that you're not only my favorite daughter, but you're also the prettiest? So much better looking than those other dogs. Seriously.
It's not gonna work this time.   But I appreciate the effort.
Hey, Beth. Grab me a beer if you're going that way?
And a little plate of cold cuts if there are any left?
You might wanna kill the volume just a smidge. My mom is finally taking a nap.
You think your dad really wants to hang on to all this vinyl? My collection could use a bunch of these.
Turn it the fuck down.
I finally got mom to lay down in the spare room. All we have left to eat is some old jelly and ramen noodles, so after I tackle some of these dishes, maybe we can go to the store. Our new brother is trying to co-opt dad's property before he's even dead.
And Laura, your husband would really like a beer to go with his fifth consecutive hour of the golf channel.
It's OK.     It's all gonna be OK.
What am I gonna do without dad?
First of all, he's upstairs watching 'Oprah After The Show'.
And second of all - you have us.
But he's always been - the one who's there for me.
What about your husband?    Where the hell is he?
Playing ultimate frisbee.    His team may make the quarterfinals.
Do you know who it is?
 It doesn't matter.
So are you going to - leave - him?
Gigi, he's my husband. He's not just some guy that didn't call me back. And he did admit it to me. He didn't wait to get caught. That takes courage.
I'm sorry. I didn't mean that.     I know Alex was not just some guy.
It's OK.
It's my fault, you know.
What?
I'm willing to accept my responsibility in this. I forced him into getting married. He wasn't ready.
Janine - this is not your fault.
It is.  I've - changed. I used to be fun. I was fun when we met.
You're still fun.
We never have sex anymore.
Lots of couples got through lulls.
No. We never have sex. Realistically, what did I expect him to do?
I don't think that's really --
This is too small. I gotta tell Javier.
What?
This tile. I gotta go.    Tell Beth I took a personal day.
My first husband was unimpressive. I found him in bed with his big breasted secretary when I came home early from the Maldives. So unoriginal, it made me feel sorry for him. My second husband was a pinch more creative. Cheated on me with my sister - but made me believe that I was insane for being suspicious. At last - some intrigue, some mind games - though my sister's two year old eventually gave them up. But my last husband -- he was a gem. A veritable master at covering his tracks. I poured over his phone records, intercepted his credit card bills, had him followed on countless occasions - and never found a single shred of evidence. It wasn't until he died that I found out about the property he owned with his Austrian mistress. But the real master, I have to say -- is me. Three husbands -- countless boyfriends, and I haven't been caught yet.
Oh my god, oh my god, oh my god...
It was all you, babe.
Oh my god, oh my god, oh my god.
This is really good news.
I cannot believe this. He liked my demo. Did you hear what he said? When he said it was hauntingly beautiful? Did you hear that part?
Yep.    I was sitting right there.
Thank you.     Thank you so much.
How is it that every time I see your body, I'm shocked at how beautiful it is?
Dana, I need to go over the offering statement. Can I get a few minutes?
It's not Dana.
Is -
Shit. I told Dana to get this lock fixed. One sec.
Why do you even lock it?
I'd never get anything done if I didn't.
Can I come in?
Of course.
What are you doing?
Sit down.
Janine, what are you doing?
I don't know. I just thought - maybe we could, you know, relight the fire.
Honey, did you hear what I just said? I gotta get this offering statement out.
Look, I am trying here. Do you want to save our marriage or don't you?
Of course I do.
Then you'll let me do this.
Yeah, just like that, yeah...
OK - Tyrone you bus 4 through 6 - and pitch in with the servers when you -
No...I'm on 8 thru 10. I'm always on 8 through 10. Been working here 18 months doing 8 through 10.
Right.   Luis you take 4 through 6.
Dude.    Luis quit like 10 months ago.
Do we even need to have this meeting? Seriously? Does this serve any purpose?
Good.   Great. Get to work.
Hey, Kelli Ann - any calls for me?
Since you asked me 11 minutes ago?   No, not a lot of phone traffic.
Oh my god.
What?
It's happened to you.
What has happened to me?
What's her name?
Who?
The girl, Alex.
There's no girl.
You can't hide it man. I know strung out and you are strung - out.
Please -
This is amazing. Can't focus, right? Jumping every time your phone rings, checking your email 100 times a day. Wishing you could write songs. Feeling the need to bring up her name in random conversations...
It's always the same. And it has happened to you, my friend. Trust me.
Shit.
Welcome to my world asshole.
You sure I can't interest you in a little beef and broccoli? I'm treating.
I really gotta get this stuff done.
OK.   I'll see you at home.     I love you.
 I love you too.
I had no choice. What was I supposed to do when she -
You make me sick to my stomach.    You are a disgusting excuse for a man -
I didn't want to do it, Anna. You know that it's you I want to be with -
Are you kidding me? You will never lay a hand on me again. I may just be a piss poor girl from Dundalk who works at a gym - but I am so too good for you.
Dino, thank you again for letting me pay over the phone. I assure you this late payment thing will never happen again. Yep -- just trying to trim some of the drama out of my life.
That's my other line.   OK.     B-bye.
Hello?
Hi, Gigi.    This is Bill.
Ummm -
Alex's friend. We were supposed to meet up - but Alex told me the wrong day.
Bill.    So you do exist.
I do. And I'd love to buy you dinner sometime if you're game.
Yes.    Sure.   Why not?
I'm gonna go. I left the check on the counter. It should at least get you through this month.
Thanks sweetie. I don't know what I would do without you.
Baby - what's the matter?
Is it money? Because you can take back the check if -
No, it's not that. I mean - yes, I'm broke - but it's not that. It's just -  I'm just so lost mom. I've been seeing this guy - who is exciting and amazing and thoroughly unavailable. I thought he was - the one - but he turned out to be such an asshole.
And then there's -
Conor -
Yeah. Who I'm so horrible to. But he takes it. And he's - there. Waiting. But I just don't want to - I don't know -
Settle?   Like you think I did?
Well, your father and I had a glorious life together.
Are you kidding? All you talk about are the things you didn't do, the people you wish you could have been with, the Tim Buckleys - anything but the life you actually had.
Those are just dreams Anna.
Now true - I did not like your father at all when we met.
Or after we got married for that matter. But let me tell you this - life with him was a hell of a lot better than life is without him.
There are worse things in life than settling.
Like what?
Like wishing you had.
Hey, sweetie.
See, why did you call me sweetie?
Because we always call each other that.
Why?
I want to say something, OK? I mean, we call each other sweetie, and we fall asleep on the phone after talking for hours and I washed your hair for you after you had that shoulder surgery and everything - it's like we're together.
I know that I -
Let me finish. Maybe it's my fault. Maybe I haven't been clear about what I want. So let me be clear. I love hanging out, but I am so attracted to you, and I just - I want both. I want to make love to you. I know that sounds kind of embarrassing coming out of my mouth - I just freaked myself out, too - but it's true. And I'm not sure what happened, or why we stopped - but I don't really care. I just --
What?
I'm talking about really doing this. Like a full-on relationship.
Right.
With me.
Yes.
Did a bunch of gay people put you up to this?
Please stop talking.
Shit!    Take him out.   He's done.
Jesus.   This isn't some exhibition game.
Could you --
Did anyone have time to run to the store?
Nah, we're good. We just got drive through.
I didn't mean for you.
The dishes are all put away. There's a load of laundry still drying, but the other one is folded on top of the washer.
I remembered what your dad likes, but I tried to get healthy stuff, too.
Ben told me.    I just - I wanted to help.
I know how much you love him.      But it's gonna be OK.
Javier - does this mean what I think it means? So when you say "done" - you don't mean "we still need plumbing in the upstairs bathrooms done" - you mean "done done"?...Wow - you're amazing...OK...I'll call when I see it...Bye.
Hey.
It's been a while since I've been here. Turns out - that boat in the next mooring, looks like yours -- not yours.
Oh no.
No, it's no problem. Nice guy. Invited me in for a white wine spritzer. Not sure he gets a lot of visitors.
Can I come in?
I wanted to thank you. For coming by my folks' house.
Of course. I really care about your dad. And I really love you. Even if I can't give you what you want.
You're what I want.
Our life together is what I want. Your love is what I want. Did you see those guys my sisters are married to? You are a better husband to me - without being married - than any of those real husbands will ever be. And that's enough for me.
And you'd really be OK if we take the marriage thing off the table?
If you promise to love me and be committed to me -
I always have -
Wait, I'm not done. And snake the shower drain when my hair clogs it, and let me eat Wheat Thins in bed.
I do.
So, I get to move back in?
I guess.   But, you cannot bring those.
What? You're just mad at me, and you're taking it out on the pants.
Look, I gotta win something. I let you win the big battle, so throw me a bone.
OK. We're not getting married, but I'm chucking the pants.
Great.   We both win.
Hey, Gigi. It's Alex. I was just wondering how you were doing. It's been a little while since we've talked -- and I was wondering how you were doing.
Anyway, I was hoping to talk to you. Obviously. But you're out. So, call me. Sometime. Or tonight. I'm around. OK. That's enough now. It's Alex.
Dude.
I know.   I know.
You seriously get a ton of people bidding on this?
I know it's crazy. But it's a neighborhood "in transition."
So that means what - that hip gay people want to live out here?
Yeah. Hip gay people, young couples, young families.
Weird - it totally reminds me of the house I grew up in. I bet there is a -
We totally had this same thing. My mom would use this as her 'desk'. Isn't that bizarre? It was always covered with her little coupons and stuff.
So, when do all the fabulous homosexual couples start arriving?
Well, the open house is tomorrow. But I have this one buyer. I mean, I want to see if his girlfriend likes it first -
His girlfriend?
I mean, I had this idea -
An idea for the open house?
No, an idea. For this house. For - me. To buy. And hopefully, if you like it and things continue to - you know...
Anna, look. I have a plan. I know where my life is going. And I want you to go with me. I mean - I'm not saying you have to move in now or anything - I just - I don't want to buy a place that you couldn't - at some point - see yourself moving into.
So what do you think? I mean gut reaction. I always go with my gut when it comes to real estate or ---
I can't do this Conor.
OK.   If it's too fast -
No. I mean this. Any of this. What you're saying - what you're offering - is what every girl wants. It's what I've always wanted. It's just -
You don't want it with me.
So, I have a question.
Okay.
Is it too late to dial it back to before - and just keep sleeping together?
Because I thought that really -    you know - gelled.
So, Alex told me you work in finance.
Yes.   Yes, I do. Finance.
This is nice.
It is.
A nice evening. And you planned it. And called me when you said you would. And showed up on time. Thank you, Bill.
You're very welcome.
Hey it's Gigi. You've reached my cell. I'm either having a very good time or in a meeting - either way just leave a message and --
It was nice meeting you.
Thank you for a lovely evening.
You, too.
Goodnight.
Did you forget something?
Yeah.   I did.
Really?     What did you forget?
This.
How did all this stuff fit in here fine before?
I don't know. It expanded.
No you are not trying to bring these back in here -
What?    I have no idea what you're -
We had a deal. These are not staying.
That's really gonna free up a lot of space.
They're going. I have a bag I'm taking to the Goodwill.
Okay, okay. You win. Just check to make sure there's nothing in the pockets before we give them away.
I love you so much. So much. I want to make you happy. I need to make you happy for me to even have a shot at being happy, too.
Will you marry me?
Yes.    Of course, yes.
You came all the way here - at 11 at night - to give me back a promotional pen?
I thought I better come up with some excuse to get over here. Isn't that how it's done?
Sometimes.
Look, I can't stop thinking about you. I drive by your place. I call and hang up. I'm turning into -
Me.
Yeah.
Well, a wise person once told me that if a guy wants to be with a girl, he will make it happen. No matter what.
True.
Hmmm. Because when I was hurling my body onto yours - you did not seem to want to "make it happen."
Here's the thing about that. You were right. I've gotten so used to keeping myself at a safe distance from these women, having the power - that I didn't know what it felt like when I actually - fell - for one of them.
Look, I've just been out with your friend Bill. And it just might be exactly what I need. No drama. He calls. He does what he says.
I could do that stuff too.
But you didn't. And that same wise person told me that I am the rule. That I have to stop thinking that every guy will change - stop thinking that I will be the --
- that I will be the exception.
You are my exception.
Jonathan?
Dancing.    Get your asses up here.
Hey, Conor.    I'm Mary.
It's so great to finally meet you in person.
You, too.
Would you like to dance?
I'd love to.
Shit...
Girls are taught a lot of stuff growing up. If a guy punches you, he likes you. Never try to trim your own bangs.
And someday you will meet a wonderful guy and get your very own happy ending.
Every movie we see, every story we're told, implores us to wait for it. The third act twist...the man who couldn't get it together finally figuring it out...the unexpected declaration of love...
...the exception to the rule.
What we're not taught is how to read the signs.
How to tell the ones who want us from the ones who don't. The one's who'll stay from the one's who'll leave.
And ultimately, we're not taught the one thing that could save ourselves, our friends, our families countless hours of confusion, despair, and speculation.
It was nice meeting you.
That sometimes the happy ending...is just moving on.
