-- and it's been done up so beautifully, you're lucky to be the first people to look at it. It's my personal favorite of all of our homes.
-- then there's the kitchen, which has been entirely remodelled.
-- in all new houses there are certain kinks to be ironed out.
It's been on the market a while, hasn't it?
Not very long.  There have been a couple of bids already.
Because it caught my eye when it was in a higher price bracket in the listings.
Oh, yes, well, you know, when developers remodel a house they often overestimate their costs at first.  It's not like it's been marked down or anything.
 Just reduced.
 Sometimes they prefer a quicker return on their investment.
This is a terrific entrance hall, What a welcoming feeling.
Isn't it?
You'll see that there's really much more space than the average three bedroom.
Oh, space!  -- You said the right thing.
How large is your brood?
Two -- three if you count the husband.
We must always count the husband. By my count there've been... four. But I still live in hope.
Well, Phil wasn't sure he wanted us to be this far outside the city.  But we have friends around here and something told me I should take a look at this house. I want to be somewhere surrounded by green.
 ... I just had a feeling.
How's the new place?
It's great.  It's clean and airy and quiet -- there are trees and flowers.  There's still some fixing up I have to do, but it's coming along.
And the rent is okay?
Oh, it's nothing.  No problem. I was really lucky to find this place.
All right then.  That's important, isn't it?  -- For you to be in an "up" environment.  I'm saying you should literally take that as your base, do you know what I mean? It's something positive that you've accomplished -- even if you were forced by circumstance -- something for you to build upon.
 Right.
And what about work?  Have you had any more thoughts about what you'd like to be doing now?
Well, I've been doing a little independent contracting, some carpentry here and there, y'know, do-it-yourself-type stuff.  I still find it very soothing.
I'm happy that you're working again.  As long as it comes naturally, that's terrific. You've always liked working with your hands, haven't you?
Yeah, since I was a kid.  I had a woodwork class once when I was... in school that time.  Then I learned a lot more when I was in the --
-- hospital.
-- institution.
Right.  So, you have a new place, you've started working a bit -- I'm sure you'll be meeting some new people.
Actually, I have met someone. There's a woman I think I like.
Oh, good -- well, I hope you'll have more to tell me next time.
Neil, calm down.
Neil, don't leave the back doors open -- I don't want Holly near the pool.
We'd have to get one of those sliding covers for the pool.
Yes -- they're quite inexpensive and easy to install.
 Do you mind if we --
Please -- take as much time as you want.
Julie, I just don't think we can afford this house.
 ... "Julie"...
I hear what you're saying, but I know what you're thinking.
What?
You're thinking exactly what I thought when I first saw this house,
What's that?
This -- is -- the -- one -- for -- us.
Stop knowing me so well.
I know it's at the high end of our range --
High end?  Honey, it's a whole new budget.
But it's what we want.
You wanted furniture too, didn't you?
They don't expect to get what they're asking.  Let's make an offer.
You want me to bargain at the high end of our range?  -- I'll have a stroke.  I've got to save all my sweat for my meeting in three weeks.
You could have a pool to cool off in.
 It's a nice pool, isn't it?
And it's a shorter commute.
It'll be even shorter if I get that new job.  Come on.
Let's do it.  Take a breath and -- and if we're over our heads, well, we'll sell it.  Philip, this is our house.  You know it is.  It's our house.
All right, but look, we can't say anything to this shark lady now, okay?  We have to play it real cool.
What if someone else buys it in the meantime?
Honey, nobody buys a house overnight -- if someone else comes back at them, well, we might have to make a counter offer.  But we can't look too eager or we'll get screwed.
So you've seen a lot of houses then?
Yeah, a bunch, but my mom really likes this one.  She was all excited when she saw it and got my dad all excited when she told him about it.  He's sick of looking already.
Are we gonna buy this house?
Do you have enough money?
 We're going to think about it.
It's very nice, but it's still a little pricey for us.
 Well, Mr. Dreyer, I don't have to tell you what an important investment a house is.
Actually, I never recommend property to my clients as merely a good investment.  There are bonds that can serve just as well. A house for me is a place I want to live and raise my family in.
Mommy, Mommy, Mommy!
 I found a cent!
"Find a penny, pick it up, all day long you'll have good luck!"
Look at my coin!
Must be a good omen, sugar.
Must be.
Dad, we can't decide unless Rudolf gets to look too!
 Would you mind if Rudolf had a look too?
By all means, let's Rudolf's opinion.
Rudolf, get down here!
Oh, gross!
It's okay -- Rudolf likes the house!
Hey, c'mon now, get him out of there!  -- This isn't our house yet.
How were we -- were we cool?
Paul Newman in "The Hustler."
Good -- that's what I was trying to project.
Dial Answer Service?
Hi, this is Tom Sykes.
Mr. Sykes?  Let me see... there were two calls for you today.  One from Dr. Levine at three o'clock -- he'd like to reschedule next week's appointment, if possible. And the dry cleaners called and said your jacket is ready.
Oh, yeah, I forgot about that. I've been real busy.  I just got a new phone installed, so I thought I'd test it.  Okay, Claire, thanks a lot, talk to you again.
Goodbye, Mr. Sykes.
Come on, honey -- let's go play in the new house.
Ooh, I like.
And this -- is the master bedroom.
Oh yeah?  Where's the bed?
Right over here.
Is it a king or a queen?
It's a double.
Even better.
 Even cosier.
That's right -- you got the bill this morning.  I put it on your desk.
Thank you -- how efficient of you.
When we move in, everyone's going to have to learn to work this complicated security system.
Okay!  We have TV!  We can all get stupid again!
What about cable?
We'll get cable when the cable company is good and ready -- you think you can survive till then?
No.
Gimme a break, Neil -- your father just spent three hours connecting the VCR.
All right, that's enough for one day -- I want everyone up at the crack of dawn.  We have the whole weekend to get this place in shape.
'"... or I'll huff and I'll puff and I'll blow your house down!" And inside their new house, the three little pigs just laughed -- '
'Who's afraid of the Big Bad Wolf, the Big Bad Wolf...'
Are you being helped, sir?
I'm looking for some perfume.
Any particular brand?
Well, it's for a woman.
 Wife, girlfriend or mother?
Oh -- uh -- girlfriend.
C'mon, kids, let's go.
 "We don't want to be late for our first day of school."
 All right, who ate the last piece of cheesecake?
I didn't.
Now, Neil.  Stop teasing your sister.
 Damn.
Hey -- uh, excuse me.
 I didn't kick this onto your property.
 Phil Dreyer -- we just moved in over here.
I see you have kids -- and a dog.
That's right.
Just keep 'em quiet and away from my property.
Did you hear that?
What?
Did you hear what he said?
What?
He made, you know, a remark.
Honey, are you okay?
-- And keep my kids away from his property -- who the hell does he think he is?  Some nice neighborhood.
Honey, the meeting today is going to be fine.  Don't get in an uproar.
I know.  It's just having to pass muster with these juniors before the senior partner even agrees to see me.
It's just a dumb game they play. You want to be at a bigger firm, get used to the politics.
Kill 'em.
Good luck, kid,
 Hey.  Have a nice time -- it's a good school.
Bye, Neil!
 "Bye, Mom -- Bye, Mommy."
So, Neil.  How's it goin'?
Okay.
I'm Bernard, by the way.  Those are cool Reeboks, Neil.  They're real new, aren't they?
Hey, c'mon.
They're really white.
Hey, c'mon, you guys, lay off.
We gotta break 'em in for you. You don't wanna go 'round lookin' like a new dil-wad, do ya?
You met Bernard.  Nice guy, huh?
Yeah, things are moving along, but she's still involved with this other guy and it's a little tricky.
Listen, no one ever said expressing yourself to the opposite sex is easy, but when the time comes, you have to do it and you hope the outcome will be good for both of you. You come out of solitary and you rejoin the human race, as difficult as that sometimes can be.
When I was a child... I got used to the closets.  The boxes.  The cabinet under the kitchen sink... with that persistent drip.  I used to the smell of the boxes. Wood.  Cardboard.  I got so I was comfortable there in the dark. Even... even that old refrigerator in the yard.  That smelled like rust and decay.  It was safe in the boxes.  It was when they took me out --
In the institution... when you were violent... did you want them to put you in solitary confinement?
I guess so.  I mean, I know I'm responsible for my own actions. It was never because I was angry with anyone.  I didn't mean to hurt anyone ever.
You're responsible for your own actions and you don't mean to hurt anyone.  In other words, you've done your best.  I'm saying don't carry the burden of other people's actions on your shoulders, because they're beyond your control.
 Are you still afraid of your parents?  Of them finding you?
That was years and years ago. They must be very old now, if they're still alive.
 No, my parents don't worry me anymore.  I mean, that's why I was ultimately released, wasn't it? I mean, even with the state closing down the hospital and all. Because I'm able to be on my own at last.  I'm cured.
Why can't you just drive me to my old school every morning?
Because you'd have to get up at five a.m., would you like that?
I could take a cab on the way home.
Here, take this out to the table.
But there's this psycho.  Really. Mom, there's a psycho I have to deal with every day.  I don't know why they let a psycho even go to school!
How was lunch?
Huh?
How was your lunch with Charlie?
Oh -- great.
Well, did he hear anything about your prospects for the new job?
No.  If I hear anything you'll be the first to know, all right?
Whose is this?  Who left this here?
 -- A little something for the new house.
Oh, thank you, Charlie.
God, your sister's really hot.
Well, the neighbors are a little weird -- other than that...
Thanks a lot.
Present company excepted -- it's the neighbors out there to the right who are a bit strange.
Yeah, I caught him looking at me the other day.
In all the years we've lived here, I don't think we've spoken a word to them, have we, hon?
Sometimes when I go to the hospital early in the morning, I've seen him coming home.  Maybe he works at night.
You'll probably see the wife once in a while at the supermarket. Truly one of the walking dead.
Sounds like your normal upper- middle-class neighborhood to me.
Let's follow 'em.
It's fun.
You've done a really great job with the house.  It's great!
Yeah.  There's still a lot I want to do.  It's not quite... the kids aren't really settled in yet. Even the dog has been terribly high-strung and whines a lot since we've been here.  Look, he hasn't even come in for his food today.
So you don't have anything concrete?
No, I told you.  A whiff of perfume on his shirt.
Have you just plain asked him?
I've asked him what's wrong.
And?
The same thing -- his business pressures, the whole move and everything.  He's frantic about nailing this new job, worried about screwing over his present boss.
I'm sure that's all it is, honey. Maybe you both just need a vacation.
I've tried to get him to agree to one.  I just -- I don't know... I'm getting such weird vibes lately.
Don't drive yourself crazy.  It's probably nothing.
 Hi, Neil.
Hi.  We're going to the mall.
Rita, he's only twelve years old,
 He'll never appreciate it more.
... No, not really.  We do hear of break-ins now and again, but it's generally a real low-crime area.  We've never had any trouble.
Is there any kind of Neighborhood Watch or --
 You're talking to her.
Do you remember who gave us this?
No.
There's no card or anything.
I hear things in this house,
All new houses have noises.
How long does it have to be a new house?
One day before we know it it'll be an old house and we'll be old in it -- and I'll still be paying for it.
Neil's still having a bad time at school.  I feel terrible seeing him so upset all the time.
He's made some friends, hasn't he?
 I mean, he's a smart kid, he'll get by -- he takes after me. You're too sensitive.
 I know someone else who's sensitive.
 Honey, I have a lot of meetings in the morning.
 You never know when, do you.
Baby, what is it?
I'm thirsty.
Aw, okay.
It's the middle of the night, sweetie.
A man scared me.
A man?  Was it a dream?
Uh huh.
 Has anyone seen Rudolf?  I don't think he came in last night.
No, honey, I haven't seen him. Didn't you feed him this morning?
 RUDOLF!
Neil, do you mind?
 Rudolf?  C'mere, Rudolf!
Rudolf!
Don't cry, honey, Rudolf knows how to take care of himself.  I'm sure he's okay.  Maybe he just went on a trip.
Like our vacation?  Are we still going?
Yeah, I guess it would be good for us to get away for a while.  Maybe Rudolf got the same idea.  Dogs need a change of scene, too, from time to time.
 Someone nice will find him if he gets lost.
I hate it here!  I hate it!
 You didn't finish your greens, but I'll let you have some dessert.
 No, thank you.
Come on, you know you want some.
No, not tonight, I have to be getting on home.
All right then, if I have to go to school then I'd better go.
Why?  I just read your report card.  What's the point?  Stay home, watch some television, we'll get "Mad" magazine delivered.  What kind of report card do you call this?!
I've been going through a lot of personal crap, all right?
Oh really?  You've been going through a lot of personal crap. You, Princess Di and Madonna?
 If you want that baseball jacket for your birthday, Neil, learn to cough a little more realistically.
I have a cold.
What did the thermometer say?
The thermometer's broken.
He doesn't have a temperature.
I can't help it if my homework is torn to shreds three times a week by someone much bigger than me.
Y'know what?  I'm ready to cancel our trip.  I really am. I've had it.
And I can't help having a cold.
What d'you want me to do, Neil? I've told you we'll get another dog.  What does EVERYONE want me to do?  You want to move back? Huh?  Would you like that?  Should we all just pack up again and MOVE BACK?!
Give it here, Bernard.
Whoa, check it out.
Put it back!
Nice pen, Neil.
Fucker!
Don't call me a fucker, you little asshole.
 Hey, you're really clumsy, Neil. Look at the mess you made.
FUCKERS!
Please -- please --
Thank God.
I think we got it just in time before the ink dried.
Whew.
The pocket's a cinch -- I'll sew it up for you after dinner, okay?
Thanks, Mom.
 Oh, gee, well, thanks for letting us know. Goodbye. (there's a double click) Hello?
 Oh boy, I just heard something horrible.  That was Audrey next door.  Neil, do you know a boy named Bernard Gunther?
 He lives on the other side of the hill, I guess, so don't get too scared, but it looks like he was just, I don't know, attacked on his way home from school.  Audrey heard that he was... (catches himself with a sigh) ... well, apparently he's in the hospital now.  One of his legs was...  They don't know if he'll ever walk properly again.
Really?
Really.
Promise?
Promise.
I'd like that.
Would you?
Uh huh.
Really?
Really.
Honey!  Was the paper delivered today?
I think so!  Didn't you take it in?
The old incriminating matchbook! Are you kidding me?!  The oldest cliche in the world!
No, I'm not kidding you, Philip.
What next?!  -- A strange bra under my pillow!
I remember what day you wore that jacket.  It was Monday.  The day you were all day in meetings again?  And had to send out for sandwiches?
Honey, you know what I've been like lately... I've been a total zombie.  I have no idea what that was doing in my pocket.
Well, what about these? (taking something else out) Do you usually put your carbons in your pocket, too?!
Sweetheart, this is a very risky time for me right now.  Maybe you don't appreciate that.
I don't care, Philip.  You want to go chasing Barbara Zelman, go ahead.  Just watch out for those buck teeth.
Barbara Zelman?  I don't believe this!
Do you usually pay for Charlie? At "Trattoria Valentino"?
Honey, I can't track of all the meals Charlie and I have been having.  This is a delicate time. If it leaks out that I'm jumping ship before I'm set up someplace else I could be out on my ear before I'm ready with nothing. With nothing.
 There are people who do things because they want to get caught.
Who told you that -- someone on the radio?
Fuck you, Philip.
I thought we'd be happy here.
 Honey, I'm sorry, I think the vacation will be a good break for both of us.  You'll see.
The cab's waiting!
Where should I hide the car keys?
I don't know -- put 'em in the drawer with all the Chinese take- away menus.
 Did you lock the garage door?
Did you set the timer switches for the lights?
And how are things with your lady friend, if I may call her that?
Oh, fine.  She's gone away for a little while and when she comes back I've sort of resolved to really tell her how much I care for her.
That's terrific.  Don't be afraid to be demonstrative.  You're sounding a lot more confident than when we last spoke.
I am.  I'm really feeling pretty good.  I have a much stronger sense of how far I've come.
As long as you keep remembering why.
Well, we talked about the whole disapproval thing.
 The whole disapproval thing.  If you allow yourself to get into a situation where someone else's potential disapproval becomes the focal point of your life -- then you're back to a life of fear, aren't you?  -- You're a prisoner to that again, and that isn't much of a life.
I understand that.
And please, don't for God's sake misinterpret that as being the voice of discouragement in any way --
No, no, no, no.
On the contrary -- this is tremendous.  I mean, we're all frightened to death of disapproval and we're constantly hiding behind these layers we manufacture for ourselves -- and I'm not saying we should, you know, declare ourselves unhesitatingly to our fellow human beings in the interests of total openness and honesty --
That would be stupid.
That would be monumentally stupid. All I'm saying is --
-- a sense of proportion.
 A sense of proportion.
 I knew you'd be back for another one of these.
You test each one thoroughly?
You better believe it, buddy. Your average Rolls Royce doesn't have to pass as many tests.  You want consistency?  You want dependability?  You want safety?
Safety?
Listen, you can kick 'em, hit 'em, pour water all over 'em -- nothing.  I'm telling you, under ordinary conditions they're quiet, they're nice to have around, they're completely harmless -- but when you blow this whistle...  ... then look out.
Look at that.  You can't buy better protection than that.  That there is your Man's Best Friend.
How are they with kids?
They're great with kids.  They love 'em.  They eat 'em up. (gives the Hider a friendly slap) I'm kidding.
 So this really does the trick, eh?
Friend, that animal will go after whoever's approaching the sound of that whistle.  And God help whoever it is.  Because that dog will not let up until there's dead meat on the ground.  Put your faith in that, pal.
Kids, don't leave your bags in the hall -- take them upstairs.
 Did the cleaning woman come?
 Yeah -- she did a good job.  This glass looks brand-new.
The floor has a nice shine to it.  Oh God -- we have twenty-two messages on the machine.
 Did she water this plant?  It looks a little bent out of shape.
All right, all right -- what?
Look!
 He was lying asleep at the back of the yard like it was home!
-- And there's no collar or tags on him or nothin'!
Can we keep him, Mom, oh, can we? Can we keep him?
Hiya, sport.  Where'd you come from, huh?
Can we keep him?
Sensational.  Wednesday is fine, no problemo.  One o'clock at the Somerset Grill -- yes, I know it well.  Okay then -- looking forward to it.  Ciao.  Hello?  Hello?
He wants to see me!
Philip!  The senior partner?
His secretary just confirmed.
Oh baby.
Oh, hi, this is Phil Dreyer again. Stupidly, I just looked at my calendar and I'm going to have to cancel Wednesday.  Please apologize to him for me and I'll call back to reschedule -- is that all right?  No problemo? Sensational.  Thanks -- I'm really sorry.  Ciao.
What -- what are you doing?
I think you should feel like dancing at a time like this.
 C'mon.
You can never bring yourself to do anything spontaneous or romantic, can you?
I bought the house, dear heart -- we took the vacation.  I deliver your dreams from time to time.
A dance is for free.
Hello?  Hi, Rita.
Uh huh... uh huh... You didn't even have dinner with him first?
Uh huh... uh huh... Well, Rita, if he's that big a slob, why are you even bothering?
 Rita, I'm going to have to call you back.
Shit!
Honey?  How did it go?  You didn't call me.
He wasn't there.
What?
I get to the restaurant and he's not there. I waited for forty- five minutes.  When I called his office, his secretary said they thought I had cancelled.  I had cancelled!  Then I get back to my office and Aranson is waiting for me and he knows everything.
Oh, honey.
Everything -- that I've been talking to other people behind his back -- that's what he called me -- a back-stabber and a deceiver. To him and to the company. He called me a traitor in front of everybody and told me if I wanted to be a VP over at Lowenthal I might as well pack up and go -- only Lowenthal never showed up for our lunch!  It's like everybody got an anonymous poison-pen letter or some --  Do you smell smoke?
Dad!  Dad!
Neil, go get some water!  Now!
What the fuck did you guys think you were doing?!
 You two get out of here, go on. Your parents are going to be hearing from me.
A man started the fire.
 Neil, goddamn it, you're not five years old!
Neil, you could have burned the house down!
I don't know how it started!
You knew a second ago.  Who started it?
-- A man.
A man started it?  Oh really?  You wanna show me, Neil?  Right, okay, here we go, Neil's gonna show me the man.
We're going to go see the man. Here we go, Neil's gonna show his dad the man.  Come on, let's go see the man.
Do you see a man?
No.
No man!  Go to your room.
Honey -- I can't find those large- size Hefty trash bags!
 There might be some extras in the garage.
I thought I was supposed to stay in my room.
 Get on the other side of that.
Neil, lift up your end.
Honey, it's not the end of the world.  You'll call Lowenthal tomorrow and find out it was just a mix-up.  And if he's not interested anymore, then you'll find another company to go to maybe even your own.  You are free now, you are independent.
I'm fired.  I'm unemployed.  Is that your idea of negotiating from a position of strength?  Clearly any potential employers have been warned to back off!
That's not the case.
 Someone blew the whistle.  Someone hates me.
Things are beginning to come to a head.  I can feel it.  And I want everything to be perfect.
Who doesn't?
I've cultivated her interests so that now we have even more in common than ever.
Well, now, don't go creating some artificial environment for yourself.
Oh no -- I mean, she's genuinely made me more fulfilled in many ways -- and I hope eventually to be able to teach her a few things, too.  What I mean is, I guess I'm still waiting for just that right -- synthesis between us -- where everything will be understood between us without even the need for words.
It's not going to happen unless you make it happen, my friend. You're going to have to assert yourself a little bit more.  Show your affection.
Yeah, maybe you're right. Everything else is just an excuse. I'm treating the situation with kid gloves because I'm afraid of losing her.
Ask her how she feels.
I should.
You have to put yourself out there a bit more.
Right.
Because life isn't about playing it safe.  Life is about taking risks.
Boy, you really buckle under a little pressure, don't you?
This is for the best, you know it is.  Why do my socks keep disappearing!
 "Honey, I'm a zombie, I don't know whether I'm coming or going."
You're even sadder and more burnt- out than I thought.
I am so sick to death of hearing your opinion of my state of mind, what you think is for my own good. Without me you'd still be twirling a baton at U.C. Santa Barbara. You're the final straw on this back, baby!
 Why the hell is this seat never right!
Your daddy and I are kind of mad at each other right now, so we have to spend some time apart.
Why are you mad at each other?
You know how sometimes Neil bugs you and you just get up and walk away from him?
Uh huh.
Well, that's what happens with grownups, too.
Did Daddy tease you?
Yes, he did, and I don't like it any more than you do.
Where'd he go?
 He's staying with a friend.  Hurry up now, you'll be late for school.
Daddy's gone where Rudolf went and isn't coming back!
Holly -- that's not so.
 Oh, Holly!
All right, now come on, everything's going to be just fine.
 My friends have been expelled.  You're gonna be my friend now.
 Must be something in the air.
No, Rita.  No.  No, I don't want to meet him.  No, Rita.  Yes, I'm fine.  No, I don't want to meet him, either.  Absolutely not, Rita,
Hello, my name is Thomas Sykes, I'm a handyman.  If there's any work you need done, please give me a call,
Oh, well, do you fix refrigerators?
Sure.
Well, can I make an appointment?
 Maybe I could take a look at it now.
Oh, great.
Yeah, that was easy.
Do you do washing machines, too?
Just show me the way.
Everything breaks at once.
Isn't that always the way?
So, you're just kind of a roving --
-- General handyman, yeah.  I do carpentry, too, painting, almost any odd job around the house.  I do housesitting while the owners are away.  In fact, that's why I've been in the area.  I've been living very close by.  Here's the part that's giving you trouble, but I won't be able to get a replacement till the stores open tomorrow morning.
Oh, that's fine.
I'll call you when I have the part.
Well, of course I'm upset, Rita. No, I don't want to go out.
Look, Mommy, look at Edgar.
 "Hi. I'm Mr. Edgar!"  Look, Mommy, it doesn't even hurt him.
 Well, what do you want me to do, Rita -- I can't just forget fifteen years of marriage.  Well, of course I know you can.  No, Rita, I -- what was that?  -- oh, I thought I heard something on the line.
Look what I found.
Well, I'll tell you -- the only way of making sure this doesn't spread is to double-coat it with sealant before putting the varnish on top.
Excuse me.
Was that your dad?
Nah, that's some guy fixing the living room floor.
Hello there.
Oh -- hi.
 I've been cleaning up my yard, too -- I noticed you do some gardening.  Thought you might like these.
Oh -- well -- thank you, Mr. Stone.
Yeah, I've been meaning to drop by -- just in case you needed anything.
Here, lemme get that.
 Because, you know, I couldn't help noticing that we have a lot in common.
 Yeah, y'know, both of us with recent spousal disappearance.
 Ah.
So where are all your toys?
Let's watch some TV.
Where are these toys of yours?
A lot of my stuff hasn't been unpacked yet.  Here's the TV.
What toys do you have?
 Hey, look -- the new Pretenders video.
Well, thanks again.
Say, this is a nice den.
 Whoops.  Excuse me, pal.
 Okay then, you have my number, gimme me a call sometime.
Yeah, right.
I don't wanna watch TV.
Hey, look what's on cable, Bernard!
Show me your room now.
Oh, uh -- hi... I --
Who was that?
I'm having the floor fixed,
And what was that neighbor guy doing here?
Philip, what are you doing here?
Look, I think we should work things out.
I was having a bad day -- I lost that job, I was dependent on other people, I was let down --
There's always an excuse, isn't there?
I think it's time I came home now.
That's not a decision for you to make on your own.
What?
No, Philip, I don't want you coming back here.  And if you want to talk to me -- call.
 This is my house.
I apologize for that scene with my husband.  You must have overheard.
An occupational hazard, I'm afraid.
I bet.  Going into people's homes.
It's a living.
Do you have a family?
Uh, no -- I've never really found the time to settle down.
You must value your independence.
Yeah, I've always been able to make my way in the world.  I don't like having to rely on other people.
It's nice that you can make that choice.
I was alone a lot as a child.  No one to compete with.  My parents ensured that I found happiness in the smallest things.  When you're all alone it's your own world, you don't have to take orders from anybody.  You don't necessarily believe the stories people tell you.
 Not me, I fell for it right down the line.  Be a good girl and believe all the fairy tales. (faraway look out the window) He married me because I was pretty.
Because you were pretty?
Well, these are good signs -- she's broken up with him and the two of you seem to be developing quite a rapport.
I know.  I just feel that the relationship has reached that delicate stage where the slightest little thing could wreck the careful groundwork I've laid up till now.
I can't help you if you don't help yourself.  It's really up to you. Brooding endlessly isn't going to help matters any.
There's so much I want to say to her, it's all jumbled up in my mind, and I don't want her to misunderstand --
Well, you'll just have to make her understand.
Come down here.
Well now, what do we have here? (chuckles nastily, glancing up wall) You got a pretty good deal goin' here, buddy.
 I believe I've seen you hanging around here before, haven't I? Correct me if I'm wrong. (suddenly his eyes bulge) OHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH!
Mom, Mom, wake up, Mom --
Neil -- what --
Mom, there's somebody in the house!
 Honey --
Mom, I heard someone downstairs!
Hello -- can you please help me -- I think there's an intruder in my house.  Yes, we heard someone moving downstairs.  I live on Coral Avenue -- number five eleven.
 Edgar!  Edgar!
 You stay with us, Edgar.
Get out of my house!
Mommy!
 It's okay, baby, the police are coming.
Hold it!
 I'm the owner, I'm the owner!  He's out there -- he's out there!
 Look -- I live here -- I live here.
Frank!
 I got the son of a bitch.  JULIE!
Yes, I used that first of all -- then I just kept hitting him.
And you were upstairs the whole time, ma'am?
Yes -- I didn't know what was going on.
Yeah, we were upstairs when we heard the intruder.  My wife called the police and I went downstairs.
Oh God.
Yeah -- we know him.  He's been hanging around the house.
All right, people, there's nothing to see here.  Let's go back to bed now, shall we?
We can get the rest of the details at the hospital, Mr. Dreyer.
Philip, I'll be fine, really.
 Should I come home when I'm finished there?
 We'll talk in the morning.
Julie?
 I was driving by -- I saw all the cars.  Are you all right?
Yeah, I'm okay -- it's been a long night.
 What happened?
Can I tell you tomorrow?  I think I...
Look, you don't have to say another word...  You should have some tea, it'll make you feel better.  And I'll clean up a bit.
Holly is asleep.
Oh, Audrey, thank you.
Hi, Mr. Sykes.
Hi, Neil -- you've had quite a night.
Yeah, but I'm okay.
Honey, do you want some hot chocolate?
No, thanks, Mom -- I'll go up to bed now.
Do you want me to come up and tuck you in?
 That's okay, Mom.
You were very brave tonight.
'Night, Mr. Sykes.
Goodbye, Neil.
Audrey...  ... you've been wonderful.  Good night.
I was thinking about our conversation the other day -- what you said about choices.
 Uh huh.
Yeah, you know, that in life you really have to choose what you want to do.
 Listen, I'm sorry, but it's really late -- you don't have to come tomorrow to work on the floor.
It is tomorrow.
Yeah, right -- I really have to go to bed.
I think we should talk first.
About what?
About us.
Mr. Sykes, I think you should go home.
 I think you should leave.
 Don't you understand?
 Yes, I do understand... (beginning to repeat himself) ... I was thinking about our conversation the other day -- what you said about choices.
 You decided that Philip should stay away.  You made your choice.
 Now things are the way they're supposed to be.  I fixed things in this house.
I don't know what's going on with you --
 -- I don't know who you are, I don't know anything about you.
I have to show my feelings.  I have to take action.
-- Julie --
 Hi, we can't come to the phone right now -- please leave your message after the beep.
 Hi, hon, I'm still at the hospital, but everything's fine.
... I really do think it's time for me to come home.
You and the kids should have a man around the house.
