THREE MEN WEARING FULL ANTI-RADIATION SUITS have left their jeep behind to collect samples of contaminated rocks. Not at all worried or bothered by the dust storm or high winds, they walk towards the hills. The man holding the counter stops in his tracks -
(loudly through the
In the distance, the other scientists continue their work, oblivious to the attack. Kneeling behind a rock, they make a
What the hell is it? With his hand, one of the scientists removes the dust around some SKELETAL REMAINS.
They look human... The strange shape of the bones and skull makes it impossible to tell whether they are human or animal.
A SHADOW appears above them-
 Look what we found. Have you...
The scientists' Jeep takes off dragging behind it the three bodies in their radiation suits and the dead body of the other man...
She is joined by her husband, their children, and their dog. The entire family sits at the table with big smiles. The frame freezes on this naive image of prosperity and well being. A slogan appears:
The sun begins to rise revealing- A long deserted horizon stretching out endlessly. Nothing lives in this and wilderness.
Hidden behind the house someone or something observes the old station attendant walking slowly to the well. DRIP... DRIP... DRIP...- water falls on the palm of his hand. Worried, the old man scans the surroundings.
He stops by a broken fence which is bent halfway to the ground. On a rusty sign next to an atomic symbol, we can
On the side of the hill,-THE ENTRANCE TO A CONDEMNED
His echo is the only sound that can be heard from the depths... He aims the shotgun, ready to open fire.
Jewels, a Swiss watch, a DV Cam, glasses, several cell phones, a pager, loose cash, credit cards, a wallet...
On the bent picture, we see a young couple kissing. The young woman wears the same earrings found on the severed ear... The old man heaves a sigh before putting the wad of cash in his pocket. Outside, a voice is heard.
The voice is followed by a car horn. The old man quickly gathers the objects from the table returning them to the bag.
where the hell is everybody? I'm gonna... Before he can finish his sentence, the old gas station man appears.
Ah, there you are. Fill it up and check the fluids my friend.
My crazy husband absolutely had to see the desert.
You know, it's illegal to smoke around a gas station. The old man bursts out in laughter revealing rotten teeth.
Piece of shit! Why couldn't we fly like normal people?
Relax Doug, please. It's their silver anniversary and they're so happy you're here.
Please, your parents can't stand me.
You're wrong. They love you.
We could have taken them on a cruise.
Yeah, that's a great idea. Why didn't you plan it?
What's that supposed to mean?
Never mind. Lynn grabs the milk bottle from its heater.
Maybe I shouldn't have even come.
Doug, please stop. I never ask you for anything, OK?  Well see how happy you are when Catherine comes along on our 25th anniversary. She walks out.
I heard that...
If you want to use the restroom, it's now or never. Bobby removes his headphones and pushes Brenda.
Wake up, lard ass.
Bobby, come look at this. Bobby joins her.
 Oh my god! Poor thing.
You two make a perfect pair. Bobby turns to a rusty car and unzips to urinate.
Don't pee there...
Why not?
(pointing to a small
Hello?
God, what do you care? Bobby re-zips and heads towards the small wooden outhouse while Brenda plays with the baby pig.
Piggy, piggy, piggy...
 Excuse me sir, do you have a phone I can use? I can't get a signal around here and... Big Bob interrupts.
Give. the phone a rest, Bukowski!
Sorry Bob, "duty calls"...
Honey, you haven't put that phone down since we left.
This is why I don't go on vacation. They're lost without me.
Stop being at everyone's beck and call, Bukowski. You're the boss, remember?
.I'm sure all that important business can wait till next week. Doug gives up. He kisses Lynn and takes the baby from her.
An EYE peeks between the wooden planks!
What the hell Brenda! The eye goes away... He re-zips looking outside. Nobody. When he exits, Brenda appears on the other side.
Freak. She looks at him slightly confused...
What?
How far are we from 1-88?
I told you we should have gone through Santa Fe. You never listen to me.
Doesn't bother me. I had night patrol for almost fifteen years...
Detective...
 Not anymore. Thank God!
I'm starting a private security firm... The old man turns to Doug-
Who me? No way. I'm in telecommunications. A beat.
Everybody's gotta have a cell phone...
No kidding... As the old man closes the hood, a familiar sound returns-
Big Bob walks to the old man.
What do -I owe you? The old man looks at the gas pump.
Let me pay, Bob.
That's not what I meant...
Beauty? Come on, sweetie... No answer. Cautiously, Lynn moves through the store to the beaded curtains. Above the cash register, an old sepia photograph of a miner stares at her.
Beauty? Lynn goes into the other room. In the darkness, among the old empty bottles, she finds Beauty standing with her front legs on a window sill and barking to the backyard. Lynn looks outside- Nobody. Only the desert and hills. Inside the room, THE HALF OPEN EXPENSIVE LEATHER BAG laying alone on the table awakens her curiosity. As she goes to inspect it, she hears the SUV starting and Doug calling out-
Honey!? We're leaving... Lynn grabs the dog by the collar.
Sorry, our dog got out...She won't stay put... A car horn breaks the silence.
Honey? What are you doing?!
The old man lets her pass with the dog, watching her WITH SUSPICION- Has she seen the contents of the bag?
Outside, next to the rusty abandoned cars, THE PIGLET HAS DISAPPEARED. Only the rope remains.
Let's go! KNOCK KNOCK The old man knocks on the window. Big Bob opens-
He's right, Bob.
I'm fully aware of the driving laws.
Everyone ready?
Thanks for the tip.
The trailer drives off in the distance leaving the attendant in a cloud of dust. The old man looks to the hills, taking a deep breath...
The SUV turns off the main road onto a dirt trail. We see Brenda lifting the gate and allowing the vehicles to access the path, unaware of the danger lurking about. Brenda gets back in the SUV. It pulls the trailer on the dirt road towards the hills.
..Lizard?!...Lizard?! Dinner's on the way...
 Just got on the road... A Chevy and a trailer...
 I tried for an hour but I couldn't get it cold in here. CLICK- the light turns on and the A/C starts.
It was nothing... The thermostat was disconnected. He turns to Doug.
How do you know all this stuff?
I don't know.
Well, at least we can breathe now.
I thought you stopped smoking?
(lighting it with a
Fuck her!
Yeah right, if you start smoking your sister would cut my nuts off.
 It's cool that you came with us. It's a drag when it's just us and our parents...
Hey, I like seeing your parents... Bobby is surprised.
.in pictures!
I think we're somewhere on this blue road...
Mom, we're not on the blue road or any other road. He said it wasn't on the map, remember? In the distance, A LIZARD moves through some rocks before heading across the road unconcerned by the approaching car.
Dad, you shouldn't have listened to that guy. We're lost.
Look how beautiful it is here girls... The hills, the colors... It's amazing. Imagine the first people who crossed this desert. They had no idea where they were going.
Neither do we, Dad. On the road, the Lizard continues carving a dusty path.
Don't drive so fast Bob, you might lose the camper...
Hey... Watch your mouth, young lady.  Will you please back me up here?
 Relax, Mom. We're all just tired.
You grew up in the 60's. How can you be so uptight?! Still driving, Big Bob turns to his daughters-
She remembers...
Inside, Doug loses his grip and is thrown against the side of the trailer. On the road, the spikes retract, disappearing into the ground.
The chain of spikes slithers away in the dust like a snake.
Doug? Bobby? Are you alright? Bobby opens the door releasing the barking dogs.
Don't worry, we're fine.
She's fine. Mom has her.
I knew this wasn't gonna be safe for the baby.
The heat must have caused a blow out.
Are you all right?
I think so... Just a little shaken up. Bobby walks around the car evaluating the damage- The SUV tires are shredded - the rims buried into the ground.
Holy shit!
97% nationwide coverage, and we have to find ourselves in that
He searches desperately for a signal, extending his arm forward. Lynn grabs him tenderly by the waist.
(staring to the lifeless
Your father wanted to see the desert...
Doug...
I hope he's enjoying himself. On his knees, by the SUV tires, Big Bob inspects under the vehicle... Not only are the tires flattened, but the front axel has buckled from hitting the rocks.
Oh, so now it's my fault? Doug joins them.
So what's the damage, General?
The damn axel is broken...
Can we fix it?
With what? The frame is completely twisted... Give me your phone, I'm gonna call a tow truck...
I already tried. I'm not getting a signal.
Can we use the C/B?
That old thing? Give it a try, but this is mining country. Whatever metal is left in those hills will probably scramble the signal...
What are we going to do? Without answering, Big Bob gets back on his feet, wipes his hands and grabs a bottle of water from the car. After a long
We're going to walk, that's what...
Walk?! But we're miles from
 So we wait here for someone to drive by? Have you seen a car in the last three hours?!
I bet this desert is full of rattlesnakes...
I saw a documentary on The Discovery channel about desert snakes. If you get bit, you'll die in twenty minutes. Big Bob reaches into the glove compartment pulling out a 9mm and an extra clip. He hands it to his son.
.or was it five? Bobby grabs the firearm pointing it to the desert. Big Bob grabs another gun from the car, A 44 CHROME PLATED
 I'd like to see how they stack up against this... Ethel brings her husband's jacket and helps him put it on.
Some things never change...
 I'll take my bullets over your prayers any day.
You think we'll see scorpions and coyotes? Big.Bob grabs his son by the shoulders, proud. They look like two kids getting ready to play Cowboys and Indians. Bobby calls out to Doug, offering the gun-
Hey Doug, wanna try?
Come on, just one shot, it makes you feel kinda powerful. Big Bob answers for Doug-
Leave him alone son. Doug is a liberal, he wouldn't touch a gun... Obviously, the two men disagree. Behind the trailer, Brenda sits on a lounge chair in her bra revealing a sexy body. She applies suntan lotion ready to kill some time. Behind her sunglasses, she observes the silent desert looking like Paris Hilton. Lynn exits the trailer and joins her.
Catherine just fell asleep. How are you holding up?
Yeah, this is a total drag, especially with a baby.
I don't care what they say, next year, I'm going to Cancun with my friends. No more "family trips" for me...
We're not going to have many more trips like this together... As for Cancun, you're gonna have to find a job.
C'mon, with all the money your husband makes, you could at least buy me a plane ticket.
Don't you think? Please, for your poor little sister... Doug's voice interrupts.
Lynn, can you bring me my jacket honey? Lynn gets up and returns to the trailer.
 "Right away, honey..." Without turning around, Lynn gives her sister the finger. Brenda smiles with satisfaction.
I'll keep walking north. This road's gotta lead somewhere. Lynn comes around with the jacket and sees Big Bob and Bobby both holding guns.
What are you going to do with those?
It's always good to be prepared. Right?
We've only got two and it's better if you guys have one here. You never know.
Are you sure you're going to be alright? Lynn puts a fisherman's hat on Doug to protect him from the sun and kisses him tenderly.
If you don't find any help in six or seven miles come back. I'll go to the gas station...
It's almost 3, you'll never be back before sunset.
It's only about ten miles from here. I'll borrow that crazy old man's truck and use his phone if he has one... Don't worry... I'll be back with a tow truck before nightfall.
Can I go with Doug?
No. Stay here with your mother and sisters.
Yeah, right. Ethel remains silent and worried.
We should pray before you go-
Oh please!
Is it really too much to ask?  Bob? Bob finally agrees, and like a good family man, he gathers them around. Brenda slips on her shirt and joins them.
Hey, little princess. Who doesn't want to sleep anymore? The baby looks at her mother, appeased.
Are you hungry, my angel? Lynn picks her up and exits the trailer.
Papa Jupe... Papa Jupe... Coast is clear.
Wait 'til it gets dark... On the radio, Papa Jupe's voice is deep and distorted. Devilish. Goggle's binoculars POV on Lynn- She sits down with Ethel, unbuttons her blouse and breastfeeds.
You shouldn't go from the bottle to the breast. At her age she should get used to one or the other.
Mom, thanks for the advice, but she's my baby. Vexed, Ethel remains quiet.
It's starting to get cold out here, isn't it?  I can't believe you're spending your anniversary stranded in the middle of nowhere.
I can already see the headlines: "Family found dead in New Mexico desert."
This place isn't so bad. At least the air is fresh.
I think it stinks.
Better than Cleveland...
Anything's better than Cleveland!
 Maybe it was my fault we had this accident...
Please, Mom. Nothing can stop Dad when he thinks he's found a shortcut. Remember when we ran out of gas on the "shortcut" to the Great Lakes? How old was I? 12, 13?
This family has certainly seen its share of adventures.
If we had just stayed on the main road we'd already be in California...
Yeah-what I'd do for a shower and a margarita...
The beach...
A real bed... Bobby sits down at the table.
Has anybody seen my grey sweatshirt? It was in the car. I've looked everywhere.
I didn't touch your smelly sweatshirt. Beast has been pulling on his chain nonstop, while Beauty cries softly from inside the trailer.
Why are the dogs so excited?
Probably some rattlesnakes not far away.
Brenda's going off to college. And then, next year, it's Bobby's turn... The house is going to feel so empty... Lynn grabs her mother's hand-
I'm really happy that we're all together on this trip. Brenda moves to the trailer. Beauty is still barking inside.
That makes one of us. They glare at her as she opens the door.
Brenda, the dogs! Too late. Beauty runs out in the direction of the hills Bobby drops his plate and gives chase.
Damnit, Brenda! Beauty! Worried, Ethel watches her son distance himself from the camper.
Beauty moves through the first series of rocks. Bobby loses sight of her and stops. Out of breath, he hesitates- Ahead, the rocky horizon shows no indication of a definite path. He spots Beauty climbing between some rocks and continues his chase.
At the bottom of the hill, the rocks are too jagged for him to continue running. He slows down and begins moving past the first set of rocks. With much more agility, Beauty climbs quickly towards the top, disappearing behind some rocks.
Nothing. Only sharp rocks stand before him.
No doubt about it - Beauty found what she was looking for, and it was much stronger... In the distance, Bobby hears his mother calling.
Overcome with worry, she turns to her two daughters.
You think he can hear me?
I don't know, Mom.
She couldn't have gone that far. Brenda notices the revolver on the table. Bobby is unarmed.
EMPTY_LINE
Beauty? Beauty? Bobby moves cautiously. He picks up a big stone for protection- A dangerous animal could be hiding behind any corner. A SHADOW PASSES BEHIND HIM.. Bobby doesn't notice. Anaaaaaau - A swift sound of breathing breaks the silence. Bobby spins around, ready to strike.
Beauty? Bobby is ready to give up when something attracts his
A THIN SHADOW ON THE GROUND. Someone or something is hiding behind a rock. Bobby freezes. He stares at the shadow. Who will make the first move? He makes the decision, creeping towards the shadow. Squeezing the stone, he lifts his hand to strike but stops when he
A YOUNG GIRL, ABOUT 14, WEARING HIS STOLEN SWEATSHIRT. She is about five feet tall and frail. The hood covers her head, partly hiding her face. She is rather pretty, even with her ABNORMALLY LARGE EYES... She trembles, frightened and intrigued by Bobby. What is this girl doing in a place like this?
Don't... Don't be scared. I won't hurt you... What are you doing here? The girl keeps silent. Bobby drops the stone to the ground but the young girl remains suspicious.
So you're the one who took my sweatshirt? Where did you find it? The young girl smiles shyly. The ice is broken.
What's your name? The young girl hesitates and murmurs in a frail voice.
Ru... Ruby... Ruby...
What are you doing here Ruby? Where are your parents? My family needs help. We had an accident. Ruby repeats her name mechanically as if she doesn't understand the questions.
 Ru... Ruby... Ruby... Bobby gets closer.
I heard you, Ruby... Are you here alone? Ruby won't answer.
Ruby... I'm looking for my dog... Do you understand? My dog... her name is Beauty... She's a German Shepherd, about this high...
Beauty...
That's right, have you seen her?
Ruby.. _Ruby is Beauty... The last sentence makes her laugh. A STRANGE AGONIZING
Have you seen her? Ruby looks down. She knows something.
Look at me, Ruby... Look at me... Where did you see my dog? Ruby keeps looking to the ground. Bobby reaches under her chin to raise her head. Instinctively, Ruby SCREAMS as she backs off, lifting her hands to protect herself.
What? I can't understand. What are you saying? He comes closer trying to make eye contact as she continues to murmur the same thing. She too is terrified-
Ruby, come back! Once more, Bobby is alone in the labyrinth. On the other side, he finds a trail of blood as if a body had been dragged on the rocks. The bloody trail is still fresh and disappears behind another set of rocks a few feet away. Bobby hesitates, unsure of what he might find... As soon as he's around the outcropping to the other side Bobby sees something that stops him dead in his tracks. Before him, on the ground, is Beauty. Dead. Disemboweled. Bobby drops to his knees, disbelieving, his face turning white. He touches the animal's head as if to convince himself that this nightmare can't be possible at all. Beauty's face is locked in a grimace of horrible pain and shock. And... the animal is missing its front right leg. DRIP... DRIP... DRIP... DROPS OF BLOOD fall on Bobby's hand - ABOVE HIM, PERCHED ON A ROCK, A FIGURE OBSERVES HIM. A man with an impressive build crouches like a monkey. He wears old clothes covered with dust, and a DERBY HAT on his head. Binoculars hang around his neck.
Goggle has no face, as if it were totally covered with wax. He has two little holes for nostrils and no ears. His mouth is like an opened wound sliced in his skin. His eyes are the only features which give him any human resemblance at all. Using his hand, Goggle devours something ferociously-
Terrified, Bobby runs away. Goggle laughs from his rock. Bobby jumps down the hill. From the summit, Goggle continues feasting. A few yards away, Ruby's slender silhouette slides between the rocks. Goggle stops eating, sees Ruby, and throws her the remains. Ruby looks at the half-eaten leg in disgust, and pushes it away.
 What's the matter Ruby.. .You don't like dog anymore?
He turns around one too many times and fails to see the sharp precipice ahead. He tries to stop, but it's too late. Bobby slides down a few feet before grabbing hold of a protruding rock. The rock tears his skin. Bobby tries to climb back up, losing his grip. He falls. His head hits the bottom. He loses consciousness. Behind him a RATTLESNAKE slithers rattling its tail. The snake zips its tongue around his face when -
"...All the leaves are brown and the sky is gray. I've been for a walk on a winter's day. I'd be safe and warm if I was in L.A... California dreamin..." After hours of walking down this road, his face shows signs of fatigue.
I was in LA._ California Dreamin..." The lyrics resonate throughout the desert. Suddenly, he stops singing.
He notices a baby seat still strapped to the back. The cars all seem to be in good condition, as if they were simply pushed into the crater. He leans down towards another car- Barbed wire is rolled around the flattened tires... As Doug looks around in confusion, trying to figure out what this place might be, THE CAMERA CRANES UP TO A WIDE AERIAL SHOT - revealing five or six others craters.
Inside the camper, Ethel watches the sun set in the horizon. She cradles the baby in her arms. Brenda joins Lynn and throws some firewood into the flames.
 We should've gone looking for him when it was still light out. I'm nervous.
Keep it together Brenda, Mom is already worried enough... The fire will help Bobby find his way back.
What if he doesn't come back? Maybe he's hurt. Maybe there was an accident...
He and Beauty will find their way back together. Lynn hugs her sister.
I never thought it could be so cold in the desert...
Bobby was only wearing a t-shirt when he left.
I know...
A rusty tea pot sits on a pile of trash and whistles in the wind. By placing his hand on the spout, Big Bob stops the whistling and silence returns. Whistling. Silence. Whistling. Big Bob walks to the porch.
It's Bob Carter, I got some gas from you a couple of hours ago. Still nothing. Big Bob draws his gun and opens the door when-
From the other side of the house, the whistling has stopped.
Anybody there? Answer me! After a few seconds, the whistling returns.
Somebody home? Hello? Big Bob pushes the last door leading to the back room. His hand feels for the light switch. CLICK - an old lamp comes on in the corner. He finds a wall mounted phone and picks up the receiver. No tone.
"Military destroys miner's town." The old man's family was. one of those families whose genetic lineage was forever changed by the nuclear fallout. Big Bob is shocked, never believing such a thing was possible.
You son of a bitch... Worried for his own family, he grabs the keys and walks out. From the bedroom window, we see him running to the pick-up truck.
The headlights shine on the outhouse. The wooden outhouse door slams back and forth in the wind. Something blocks it from shutting completely-
EMPTY_LINE
EMPTY_LINE
The old man seems mad.
My wife... She didn't want to leave ...she wouldn't move to town even when the state police ordered us to. The kids grew up in the mines... Like animals... (smiling through his
What kind of place is that for children? In a split second, the old man sets the shotgun under his
Daddy... Daddy...Daaaddyyy...Daddy.. THE VOICES ARE HORRIFIC AND TERRIFYING. Big Bob backs up pointing his gun in their direction.
Daaaaddyyy...Dad-dy...Dad-dy...
Who's there?
Dad-dy...Dad-dy...Daddy...Dad-dy... Big Bob can't contain his fear and shoots blindly into the darkness.
Who's there? Show yourself! The voices become louder and louder, omnipresent.
Dad-dy...Dad-dy...Daaaddyyy... Daddy.. Daddy... Big Bob walks backwards to the truck, and trips on the ground. Wide eyed, he stands and throws himself on the car door.
 Hello...Hello... Can somebody hear me? Please answer if you hear me. Hello? No answer. The radio goes silent. Lynn joins her, holding the baby.
How's it going?
I heard something. She fiddles with the radio.
I'm not even sure I know how to use this thing. Lynn hands her Catherine, and sits in front of the C/B.
 Mayday ...mayday... This is a distress call... Do you copy? Still nothing.
Mayday. . .We're stranded in the desert, we need help...mayday... Suddenly, the light on the C/B turns green and static can be heard. Ethel grabs her daughter's hand, hopeful that someone may have heard them. A second later, HEAVY BREATHING is heard over the radio. The light turns off. The two women look at each other in confusion.
What was that?
It sounded like an animal... Lynn stands up worried.
If animals start answering our radio calls, we're really fucked!
Watch your language!
Give it a rest, Mom. We have more important things to worry about. She walks out.
Lynn, wait. Ethel stays alone with the baby.
Lynn raises the collar of her jacket to protect herself from the wind and moves closer to the fire.
Brenda? No answer.
In the distance, we see Brenda looking for her brother.
With a flashlight in one hand, the gun in the other, and a blanket over her shoulders, Brenda moves through the night.
She hears her older sister calling.
Brenda? Brenda?
I'm here! I'll be back in a minute. The flashlight partially lights the desert as she disappears into the night.
You're lucky Brenda found you. Imagine if you had to spend the whole night out there in the cold. Bobby winces from the pain.
Don't worry, Beauty will come back when she's hungry... Bobby doesn't answer. He keeps the truth to himself, not wanting to worry his family.
Have you tried the radio?
It doesn't work...
We heard something. Some sort of breathing... Bobby lifts his head.
What do you mean?
It was really weird, right mom?
 I'm sure it was just static.
Mom, it sounded like a perverted crank call.
 Ssshhhh... His mother and two sisters are surprised by his agitated behavior.
What's wrong with you? Footsteps. Someone approaches.
 I want you guys to stay in here. Brenda?! You hear me? Gun in hand, he opens the door- Bobby is about to shoot when a figure emerges from the dark. IT'S DOUG, holding as much as he could carry from the car graveyard.
What the fuck are you doing? Don't point that thing at me. Bobby lowers the weapon.
I didn't know it was you.
Who else would it be?! Bobby is interrupted by Brenda who sees Doug from the window.
Doug's back!
Hey girls! Quickly, Lynn exits the trailer and jumps into her husband's arms. They kiss. Doug sets down all of his findings.
Look what I found. Various tools, a fishing pole...
With all of this, we can find a way to fix the car, right Bobby? Bobby doesn't answer.
I found this really huge crater at the end of the road! I've never seen anything like it! People must use it as a dump site. It was full of all this garbage... (pointing to the fishing
Look at this, it's brand new!
What are you going to do with a fishing pole in the desert? You didn't you find anybody?
No. The road just stops there. I hope your dad has better luck. Is there anything to eat? I'm starving.
Let's go, it's freezing out here. Doug follows Lynn inside the trailer.
Looks like we're camping out tonight. How's your head? Bobby doesn't answer.
Bobby? What's going on? A beat.
Nothing, Mom.
Are you sure?
I'll feel a lot better when dad gets back.
Me too, honey. Come inside. You've already spent enough time in the cold for one day, don't you think?
Don't close the door, we're leaving in a second!
I'm tired, I really need to rest for an hour or so...
We can squeeze in here. You'll be more comfortable.
You want us to sleep on the floor?! Doug kisses Catherine and hands her to Brenda so she can put her to bed. Bobby takes him aside.
What? Bobby hesitates to talk.
So, what Bobby? Lynn walks by-
I'm almost ready...
Listen... I'm sure your dad will be back soon. He's "Big Bob". It's gonna take more than a few snakes in the dark to stop him, right?
Can I listen to your iPod? Bobby is still focused on the door.
What?
Can I borrow your iPod?
Ow, Ow... Yeah right there. Perfect. God, I feel like I crossed New Mexico on foot. Amused, Lynn squeezes his legs a bit harder. She moves up to his love handles.
A little work out can't be all that bad for these guys, right? Doug laughs and giggles.
Stop! Stop, you're tickling me! Lynn continues with more fervor.
Oh, so you want to play? He turns around and starts tickling her as well. They laugh together before kissing passionately.
I love you...
I love you too... They start making out.
Beast?! He grabs the gun and exits the trailer, leaving the door open.
Beast? Come on, boy. You hear me! Come on now. Bobby moves further from the trailer towards the barking.
Bobby shines the light on the bush and approaches- Nothing. It must have been his imagination. The barking becomes a ferocious growl.
Beast? Beast? Its me. Come on... All of a sudden the growling becomes a "mooing" cow. Then a goat. Then a chicken. Terrified, Bobby turns around and runs back toward the SUV.
Doug! Doug! Caught red-handed, Lynn dresses and Doug pulls up his pants.
Damanit! What is it now?
 What do you want, Bobby?
Come on, open up! Lynn opens the back window giving him a dirty look.
This had better be important. Bobby is too scared to keep the truth hidden. He regains his calm before talking.
Something's going on around here. We're not alone. Exasperated, Lynn takes a deep breath, not taking him seriously.
I know this sounds weird, but there are people living in those hills.
Bobby... We're in the middle of nowhere. Believe me, no one could survive out here!
I saw them. And Beauty...
Beauty what?
They cut out her insides.
What are you talking about?
Her guts were all over the place... He struggles to talk.
I...I didn't want to scare you so I didn't say anything, but something's going on... You even said you heard some breathing on the radio didn't you? Lynn nods.
We're not alone, I'm telling you... Doug exits the car. Obviously, Bobby is not kidding.
Calm down Bobby, OK? Let's go check it out together. Lynn, stay right here.
In the back room, Pluto hears them, grabs his walkie-talkie
Noaowww!
SOMEONE SCREAMS. Doug and Bobby turn around.
The explosion and the screaming has awakened Ethel who comes out of the trailer in her nightgown. Recognizing his screams, she runs to her burning husband.
Move!  You gotta be a man to do that... Pluto is outraged and tries to stand up. He wants to talk but no words come out. JUST GRUNTS AND GROWLS. Lizard savagely hits him several times. Behind them, terrified, Brenda watches helplessly as they fight. Lizard puts his foot on Pluto's face, pinning him to the ground, and then points the gun to his head.
I told ya to move! Pluto moves away and, in a fit of rage, breaks everything in the trailer. Dishes, chairs, table... everything. Lizard laughs like a goon. He grabs Brenda by her feet and pulls her to him.
No..No.. It's not possible. That's not Bob. That's not my Bob. She grabs Doug by his shirt trying to convince him.
Doug.. It's not him. Tell me it's not him. It's not my Bob! The poor woman has lost her mind. Ethel erupts in laughter pointing to her dead husband.
Take your mother away from here! With her eyes fixed on her father, Lynn walks her mother away. In Bobby's eyes, sadness has been replaced by hatred. Full of rage, the youngster grabs the gun and walks away.
Where are you going? Bobby?
I'm gonna take care of the motherfuckers!
Come back here, Bobby! Bobby disappears into the night. Doug covers Big Bob's face with a blanket.
Oh my god! Lynn runs inside leaving her mother alone.
Baby... Baby... Instinctively, Lynn grabs the closest thing, a FRYING PAN, and hits Lizard brutally in the face.
Come on Doug! They're in the trailer-! They both take off running.
Take it. Pluto obeys. Lizard grabs Brenda by the hair and pulls her out of the trailer.
Come on bitch... She screams and resists by grabbing at furniture and pulling off the curtains... Her nails scratch against the paneling.
CLICK! - no more bullets. Lizard drops Brenda.
I'll come back for ya... Lizard disappears into the night. Brenda lays on the ground trembling and crying. Doug arrives at the trailer, while Bobby aims the 9mm at the assassins.
"Goggle? Goggle..." Goggle will not answer anymore...
Doug! Doug does not answer and takes Ethel's hand. She opens her eyes and looks at him as if nothing happened.
This camper's so small. No matter how much you clean, it's always a mess.
Is Big Bob home?
Not yet.
Did everyone go to bed?
Yes, Brenda is here and Bobby is in the kitchen. At the other end, Bobby turns away, crying. Brenda looks away as well.
 Is Lynn sleeping? Doug holds back the tears.
Yes..  Do you need anything? Ethel finds it more and more difficult to talk.
Look in the closet Doug, I'm sure I have another blanket. I'm so cold. Doug tucks one of the blankets around her.
You've always been so sweet. I understand why Lynn loves you so much. She raises her arm to caress his face. Her hand falls on the bed. Lifeless. Brenda screams, bursting into tears.
Fine. You stay here. I'm going after them. Doug gets between Bobby and the door, preventing the kid from leaving.
Let me go!
You want to die, too?
I don't care. Doug drags him in front of his mother's body.
Look! Look at what they did to your mother. Look at what they did to your sister. He slams Bobby against the door.
You're not a fucking child, alright? Think before you do something stupid. You won't make it three feet! We need a plan, OK? We need to think...
Think about what? They have Catherine, Doug... Doug remains silent...
THEY HAVE CATHERINE... You know what they could to do to her, and you're not going to stop them?! You're just a coward... Doug jumps back on Bobby grabbing him by the collar.
No.. No... don't turn it off!
Brenda throws herself into Doug's arms. Bobby stares at the bullet holes in the trailer door. Suddenly, the sound of a radio is heard-
"Goggle, you copy? Goggle..." Bobby and Doug look at each other confused.
"Goggle?" Doug silently moves closer to the door. From outside we can see Doug's eye through one of the bullet holes. Nobody, everything seems quiet.
Get ready Bobby.. Doug opens the door and jumps out ready to fight. From beneath the trailer, someone observes him... Doug bends down and discovers- GOGGLE'S SEVERED ARM. In its hand, the walkie-talkie still works.
"Goggle? Goggle?" Doug grabs the radio. It's dripping with blood. Bobby is about to join him when Doug signals-
BANG! - Bobby shoots through the floor. Immediately, the shadowy figure jumps out into the light-
Beast! The dog jumps into Doug's arms and begins licking his face. Bobby can't believe it, his dog has returned. Radio static comes back on the walkie. Bobby picks it up-
"Papa Jupe... Goggle is dead. I found him in the rocks..." "Dead?"
"They got him. He's all torn up..." Bobby is proud of Beast. Still in the trailer, Brenda looks at them, not as hopeful.
Good boy.. That's a good dog.
"I'm gonna take care of those bastards myself"... Bobby exchanges a worried glance with Doug. Even though neither of the two has yet met Papa Jupe, something in his voice tells them that it's only going to get worse. Doug grabs the radio-
EMPTY_LINE
How much ammo do you have left?
I don't know, half a clip?
A butcher's knife is planted next to her... Asthmatic breathing, and the sound of running water punctuate the silence. Ruby steps out of the darkness and moves towards the baby. She watches through her abnormally large eyes and extends her stringy fingers to touch the baby. A large screen splits the room in two. A strangely shaped shadow moves behind the screen: A HANDICAPPED BODY washed by A LARGE WOMAN... An empty wheel chair rests in a corner. Amused, Ruby looks at the baby who smiles back. She carefully takes Catherine in her arms when the invalid's voice
Put that down Ruby... You know better than to play with your food... Ruby takes a step back, hugging the baby tighter.
Mama, pleaaase...
 Listen to your mother Ruby and put that baby down... Now! Frightened, Ruby obeys and quickly runs out of the room. The baby starts crying...
Mayday... Mayday... We need help ..Mayday... Mayday... can anybody hear me? Something has gone off in her eyes. She is absent, no longer living, just surviving. Doug is about to leave, taking with him anything from the trailer which might be useful.
Let me go with you.
No, you stay here with your sister and stay by the radio. Somebody's bound to hear us. Brenda continues her distress call.
Mayday...mayday... Can anybody hear me?
No. You keep it in case they come back.
What about you?
Don't worry about me, I'll take Beast. Beast sits at his feet ready to go. Doug straps the walkie- talkie over his shoulder.
Doug?
Yes?
I... I didn't mean what I said... Doug hugs him like a brother. Before walking out, he bends down to Lynn's body and kisses her one last time on the mouth.
I'm going to find.our baby my love...I promise.
 I told you to stop smoking. Doug sets a different frequency on his radio-
 Bobby? Bobby? You read me?
Yeah, Doug...
I followed the blood, I'm in front of a mine!
I'm not sure if I'll get a signal from inside. If you don't hear from me in a half an hour, you're on your own.
Yeah... Good luck, Doug. He puts the walkie away and takes out the flashlight.
The beam from his flashlight follows the trail of blood on the ground. The wooden pylons which have held up the walls for a hundred years threaten to crumble at any second. Only static on the radio. Doug turns it off. He moves further into the darkness, probing with his flashlight into the inky pit. Doug arrives at a fork splitting the tunnel off in two different directions. Doug lights each tunnel with the flashlight until he finds the one with-the blood trail, then continues on into that one. Tracking. Suddenly he stops. The beam of the flashlight has revealed TWO DOZEN PICKAXES that have been planted in the ground over mounds. That look very much like graves. The pickaxes look eerily like crosses, given the whole place the feel of A SUBTERRANEAN GRAVEYARD. Hanging from the graves, dates and portraits of all the miners who have died here, including women and children... The flashlight dims. Doug taps it to no avail.
Come on. You can't be serious. Then light goes. completely off, leaving Doug in darkness. Scratch! - He lights a match. Holding the tiny flame, Doug continues down the tunnel until he arrives at another fork. He can no longer see the blood trail.
(to Beast, meaning
Just stay calm, boy... A gust of air kills the match. He immediately lights another- Again, THE DRAFT SNUFFS IT OUT. He turns around, looking for the source of the air, and notices a reflection of light at the end of the tunnel. He moves towards the reflection.
Doug turns the walkie on.
Bobby, do you hear me? Bobby? Still nothing. Doug turns around and looks up- A wall of rock towers behind him. He tries one last time, but the signal won't go through.
Brenda joins her brother who is busy planting wooden stakes in a circle fifty meters around the trailer.
Maybe somebody heard our calls..
Nobody's going to find us Brenda, even with that smoke...Nobody's coming._.. You heard what Doug said-We're alone now, just you and me. Let them come, I'm waiting for them. Now, Bobby stretches the nylon wire from the fishing pole around each stake. He sets the fishing pole next to the trailer, rigging to it one of Catherine's TOY SHAKERS- An improvised alarm system.
Doug slows his pace as he enters Main Street. The town is deserted. No sign of life anywhere. All the houses and cars are covered with a thick layer of dust. Taking a closer look, he realizes all the parked cars are from the 50's. Uncertain, Doug walks through the ghost town, with Beast at his side... No movement besides the wind blowing and lifting an occasional cloud of dust. Doug walks up to a house and knocks on the front door. No one to open the door. Doug wipes one of the windows- It's too dark inside to see anything. The door is unlocked, Doug pushes it. It squeaks open. He hesitates before entering.
Nothing. He picks up the phone casing.
Around the corner of a house, a little girl dummy is sitting on a swing, her face half broken. A second later, Doug thinks he hears CHILDREN LAUGHING. He
Nothing but the wind blowing through the houses. Doug takes Catherine's bib from his pocket and lets Beast get its scent.
Find her, Beast, find Catherine... With his nose to the ground, the dog pulls Doug straight ahead. Doug walks away through the streets, pulled by the dog. On the outskirts of town, we discover a fence buried in the sand. On it, an old metallic sign reads-
The man turns around, revealing his horrible face- A METALLIC BRACE is screwed on four sides of his head helping him stand straight. ENORMOUS CYSTS DISFIGURE HIM AND COVER EVERY VISIBLE PART OF HIS BODY. Let's call him "CYST". Cyst traces back his steps, trying to find what caused the noise. He holds the gas station attendant's shotgun! The alley is empty. The generators are still motoring. All seems normal. Cyst turns back towards main street. Cyst passes an old'parked car without seeing Doug and the dog hidden inside. Doug breathes a sigh of relief. Close call. Quietly, Doug gets out of the car. He hesitates as to whether he should bring Beast with him or to leave him in the car. The dog could be his best weapon but, on the other hand, he also represents a_bigger risk to be spotted.
Shhhh... Quiet Beast... Don't move! I'll be back... He closes the car door and starts down the alley, lowering his head.
Doug approaches terrified.
"Oh, say can you see, by the dawn's early light, What so proudly we hailed at the twilight's last gleaming?" Doug jumps and quickly lifts the baseball bat, ready to swing. Nobody. Just the fake living room filled with inert dummies. No trace of his baby. An electrical fan turns in a corner, close to a shelve full of old books... Doug moves forward, gripping the bat tightly.
 "...Whose broad stripes and bright stars, through the perilous fight..." He can hear his own heart beat as he searches through the house. In another room, close to the window and in the shadows, he sees someone sitting in a wheelchair.
"...And the rockets' red glare, the bombs bursting in air..." Doug gets closer- A ray of light shines on the skull of whoever sits in the wheel chair. The wheel chair moves forward revealing a most horrific sight- BIG BRAIN - We recognize the handicapped man whom we have seen before, bathing behind the screen. Big Brain's body is skeletal. He was born with a genetic disease giving him a head ten times bigger than his face. A head so heavy, he is unable to hold it up. It rests back on his chair, forcing him to stretch his eyes to see from side to side. Big Brain is maybe the most representative character of the damage done by nuclear fallout in this area. Doug threatens him with the baseball bat-
Where's my baby! Where's Catherine?! Big Brain does not answer.
What did you do with her?
Where is she then? ANSWER ME! He raises the bat.
 .I don't know where she is. I never leave this place... Big Brain moves away from the window wheeling himself to the couch. His hands are thin and pale, like a child's.
..You should've read the signs before taking that road...
What signs?!
What the hell are you saying?!
 You people settled on our lands, you destroyed our homes, destroyed our silver mines. . .You 'ye made us what we've become! One day my father went into town begging for your help, and you know what the doctors did? They sterilized him like a dog! You thought that in the desert no one would see anything, or say anything, but the hills... The hills never forget...
I don't know what you're talking about. All I want is my daughter. Please... Big Brain remains silent.
What do you want? Money? I can give you money... WHAT DO YOU WANT?
Maybe a trailer? Yeah, a pretty trailer, just like yours.
Where are the others? Where is my baby? Big brain starts laughing a high pitched sound.
What? What's so funny?
Doug loses his bat but slides away before the axe comes swinging down. Desperate, he picks up the bat and uses it as a shield. The axe splits it in half. Doug throws himself at Pluto plunging the splintered bat into his abdomen. The sharp piece of wood enters Pluto's stomach. Completely out of his mind, Pluto removes the piece of wood from his abdomen and beats Doug in the face with it, sending him across the room. Pluto lowers his head, charging Doug like a bull. Doug crashes into one of the walls. He can't even take a breath before the giant grabs him by the leg like a rag doll and throws him through a wall. Doug falls to the ground in the living room. Wounded and exhausted, he is also defenseless. He has lost his glasses. Not far away, Big Brain savors the spectacle. The giant walks to him spinning the axe in his hand like a baton. His foot crushes Doug's glasses on the floor. The axe swings through the air. Doug jumps out of the way.
Blood is everywhere. In an act of self preservation, Doug crawls under the table.
Please, I'm begging you... Don't kill me...
 Loook at-t hiiis fa-ace... Loook at- at hiiis fa-ace... Even the frozen faces of the test dummies seem to mock him.
Doug stops crying_instantly, it was a trick! He turns the screwdriver around and slams it into Pluto's foot. The screwdriver goes through the shoe nailing Pluto to the floor. Pluto screams in pain. Doug rises and moves behind him. In a swift movement, Doug takes the American flag from Big Bob's forehead, stabbing Pluto in the back of the neck!
Pluto's eyes freeze and his body falls to the ground, his skull half open. DOUG JUMPS ON TOP OF HIM. FULL OF RAGE, HE
The baby... the baby is in the last house on the left...
Not far from the car and above the fishing pole, Catherine's shaker remains still and silent...
A hundred yards away- Cyst crosses Main Street toward Big Brain's house still holding the shotgun. Through the broken door, Cyst spots Pluto in a pool of blood. Hatred fills his eyes as he loads the shotgun and prepares to shoot.
Lizard... Kill the baby...
He moves to the kitchen with a limp. There, he comes face to face with Ruby. Behind her, the baby is wrapped inside a blanket on the table. The kitchen walls are covered with dry blood. Severed human remains are scattered about and hanging like slabs of meat. Ruby blocks his way-
Get out of the way Ruby...
He looks for his baby in every part of the house. Nothing but dummies. Doug enters a room and sees a crib.
Catherine?! He goes to the crib and discovers a plastic doll...
Ruby made the swap before Lizard entered the kitchen. The piglet runs off oinking...
Enraged, Lizard sticks the machete into the table.
In an upstairs window, he sees Ruby's mother, THE OBESE WOMAN, swinging on a rocking chair staring back. Suddenly, coming from the hills, Doug hears the sound of a baby crying. In the distance, he spots Ruby running through the rocks. He runs with the shotgun in hand.
Catherine!
The dog runs down Main Street...
Bobby Lifts his head and looks a full 360-
Bobby and Brenda exchange worried glances when-
The fishing reel quickly unwinds... This time there is little room for doubt, even if all seems clear around the camper.
I don't.see anybody... What's happening? Bobby and Brenda leave their hiding place. They move, back to back, cautious...
answer me, why isn't anyone there? I'm scared...
Look! Further ahead, on the ground, a tumbleweed is stuck on the fishing wire, moving it in the wind.
Let's go back... Not convinced, Bobby agrees, but his face freezes when he turns back to see- THE BACK DOOR OF THE SUV, WIDE OPEN. At a loss, Bobby and Brenda return.
Brenda? Come on? Brenda remains still.
Terrorized, Brenda backs up to the trailer, while her brother, with a determined look on his face, walks to the hills.
Ruby...Ruby! You come back here right now. You hear me, you little bitch? The road on the edge comes to a dead end. Ruby is stuck, the only way out is to climb. Without using her hands, she attempts to ascend. It's close to impossible.
Give me that baby, Ruby! With no time to react, Lizard is brutally struck in the face with the shotgun butt-
Doug can barely comprehend it - the nightmare is finally over! He. drops the smoking gun and opens his arms to embrace his baby. He cries tears of joy as he holds Catherine close to him.
My baby ...My little princess... It's me, it's daddy... He kisses the baby and hugs her tightly, elated. Ruby is moved. She smiles when suddenly her face freezes-
At the last second, Ruby jumps on Lizard changing the direction of the blast. They both fall off the mountain into the emptiness. Their bodies plunge a hundred feet down, splattering on the rocks below.
Come on, Bobby. Let's get out of here... Bobby's face has changed. He is no longer the innocent kid of just a few hours ago. His eyes are now filled with rage and a determination to survive and succeed no matter what. Brenda and Bobby walk away from the burning trailer. On the other side of the smoke, they see-
