We're just lucky it didn't reach the trees...
There's gonna be a lot more jobs at that factory by Milwaukee come June. I could put in a word.
You can't leave us, Henry. She needs both OF US--
Can you stop being a momma's boy for one second?
I'm not trying to hurt you but Jesus you got to live your own life someday. That woman can take care of her own goddamn --
Good evening.
Brother has been slaying brother since Cain and Abel, yet even I did not see that coming. I was as blind-sided as poor Henry over there.
Apparently the authorities shared my naivete and believed the young man's tale that Henry fell and hit his head on a stone and died of smoke asphyxiation.
Of course if they hadn't believed him, Ed never would have had the opportunity to commit the heinous acts for which he became famous... and we wouldn't have our little movie. Instead, we'd have more nice, safe, predictable ones like these...
Mere Technicolor baubles.
Ah. A bit of doom and gloom. Now, that's more like it.
This thing is going to be gigantic. I wish I had twenty percent of the take.
Does tonight's incredible reaction surprise you, Mr. Hitchcock?
No, when I was planning North by Northwest I could already hear the screams and laughter. (then, to a BEAUTIFUL BLONDE FAN) Any questions, my dear?
A pity.
Mr. Hitchcock, you've directed forty-six motion pictures. You host a hit TV show seen around the world. You're the most famous director in the history of the medium... but you're sixty years old. Shouldn't you just quit while you're ahead?
Muhammad had the eyes of peeping Toms gouged out with arrows.
Talking of arrows, did you read Mr. Weiler's review in the New York Times? Apparently, he found "the climax" to be -- and I quote -- "overdrawn."
I doubt whether Mr. Weiler has had a climax in years.
And how about this little grenade?  North by Northwest reminds us of Hitchcock's earlier, more youthfully inventive spy thrillers."  And just to drive the nail into the coffin, there's a handy accompanying guide to the new masters of suspense.
Why do they keep looking for new masters of suspense when they still have the original?
Don't be maudlin, you know how much it aggravates me.
Stop reading them. You've been reading them for a week now.
Tell me, dear. Am I really too old?
Yes. A true relic. And lest we forget, a notably corpulent one.
You always know precisely where to plunge the dagger, don't you?
Right between the shoulder blades. I learned it from your pictures.
Where are you off to?
I'm seeing Whit for brunch after I drop you off at the studio. Why don't you join us?
We've just established that I'm too corpulent to be seen in broad daylight.
You'll feel better as soon as you find a project. Hasn't Peggy unearthed any decent books yet?
Sleeping pills with dust jackets.
Well?
Very presentable.
Hurry up, darling. You're pruning.
Mr. Hitchcock. Mrs. Hitchcock.
 Sirs.
There's a story out there waiting for you somewhere, Hitch. I promise.
Don't forget your lunch.
Fox is offering you The Diary of Anne Frank for the third time.
The audience would spend the entire picture waiting for Miss Frank to discover the corpse I'd hidden in the attic. Wouldn't you agree, Silvio?
Si.
MGM wants you for the Ian Fleming book, Casino Royale, with Cary Grant. Definitely your style.
 Doesn't she know I just made that movie? It's called North by Northwest. And "style" is merely self-plagiarism.
I'm treading water, Peggy. I need something fresh. Something different. Without expensive stars like Cary Grant or Miss Kim Novak to pretty it up.
A nice, clean, nasty little piece of work.
I'll see what I can find.
... Thank God I had a pocketful of pretzels. I was hiding in that props cupboard all night.  That'll teach me to use a bedroom set instead of the real thing.
Serves you right.
Hitch always said your private life was in danger of being more entertaining than any of your plots.
I can't believe he let me have you all to myself for a whole afternoon. Especially looking this beautiful.
Trs chic.
All this relentless sycophancy is giving me indigestion. 
 What are you after?
And how is your wife?
Elizabeth?  Over the moon since I promised her the dedication in my new novel. So what are you working on these days?
Hitch is going out of his mind looking for his next project. You know how unbearable he is when he doesn't have something lined up.
Almost as unbearable as when he does.
 Almost.
I meant you. What are you working on?
I'm satisfied spending time in my garden.
That is one lucky garden.
Actually, I was hoping you might be able to apply your considerable pruning skills to this.
Ah. All is finally revealed.
The most fun I ever had was working with you.
I suppose I could give it a look.
Anything. Anything at all?
Nothing suitable. Is that water or do I need to call Alma?
Gin. Mother's ruin.
Boucher says this "Psycho" book by Robert Bloch is `fiendishly entertaining'.
It sounds ghastly. Everyone in town's already passed.
And who is everyone?
The story department finished the coverage this morning.
Is this the one based on Ed Gein, the serial killer?
"Graphic elements of brutal violence, voyeurism, transvestitism and incest." Certainly not your average run of the mill nutcase, is he?
You're kidding.
Peggy. This is the boy who dug up his own mother.
Hungry?
Famished.
If you're good, maybe you can have a grapefruit later.
Whit gave me the galleys of his new book yesterday at lunch. I've already got some ideas on how you could adapt it.
It's elegant, sophisticated, full of INTRIGUE --
The book or Mr. Whitfield Cook?
This might be the one, Alfred.
Leave it on the night stand.
There are calories in that, you know.
Aren't you cold, ma?
Don't be afraid, ma... I'm here...
Oh God.
Read the bit in the motel bathroom.
Now?
"Mary started to scream, and then the curtains parted further and a hand appeared, holding a butcher's knife. It was the knife that, a moment later, cut off her scream... and her head."  Charming. Doris Day should do it as a musical.
This is nothing but low-budget horror movie claptrap.
But what if someone really good made a horror movie?
Just think of the shock value. Killing off your leading lady halfway through.
You're intrigued. Admit it.
Actually, I think it's a huge mistake.
You shouldn't wait till halfway through... Kill her off after 30 minutes.
Peggy, I want you to summon your minions...
Minions. Certainly. And who might they be...?
Get them started buying copies of "Psycho."
How many do you need?
All of them. I want every copy, nationwide. 
Have them scour every book shop and library. "Psycho" is my next picture, and I don't want anyone to find out the ending until they see it in the theater.
All that celery's affecting your brain.
Are you sure about this? This is so unlike you.
That's exactly the point, my dear.
And when the Wisconsin Police department raided his farmhouse in Plainview...
..they opened the door only to discover - voila...
... Ten female heads with the tops sawn off, a dozen masks of human skin, and a pair of lips on a drawstring for a window shade.
That is my intention, madam. Yes.
I only wish he looked more like William Holden and less like Elmer Fudd.
I was hoping everyone would. I mean life is deeply offensive and disgusting, isn't it?
Try the finger sandwiches -- they're real fingers.
Peggy. I'm going to need some research detailing a typical unmarried 30-year-old secretary from Phoenix, Arizona.
Her monthly rent, what she wears, what she reads, which scent or perfume she prefers...
... How she deals with a demanding boss when she's trying to relax on her weekends off?
 I told you, Hitch. This thing's strictly for the drive-in crowd.
Now, if this were a Hitchcock picture what would two characters like us, married to other people, be saying?
You don't have to pretend you're not upset he hasn't read it yet, you know.
I'm a big boy. I can take it.
Well, I loved it. What terrific fun it must have been to research.
Certainly more fun than reading those reviews. 
 Do you think he really will read it?
Speak of the devil.
I have to admit, Hitch, I ran all over town looking for a copy of "Psycho" but couldn't find a single one.
I wonder how that could have happened.
Don't stop looking on my behalf.
I've seen happier faces on a school bus going over a cliff.
I told you it would be too much.
But they can't stop looking, can they?
Audiences want to be shocked, Barney. They want something different. And this is it.
The truth is, Hitch, every time you want to do something "different" like The Wrong Man or Vertigo, someone loses money.
So we should stop trying to give them something new?
You owe Paramount one last picture, Hitch. Can't you do something like North by Northwest but for us this time instead of for MGM?
We've offered you dozens of perfectly good properties.
 "Psycho."
No one respects the name Hitchcock more than Paramount. But even a talented man sometimes backs the wrong horse.
Are you telling me "no?"
I think you know me better than that, Hitch. I would never say "no" to you.
What a putz. You know what his family did before they built those movie palaces? Ran a grocery store.
My father ran a grocery store.
Exactly. That's what I'm saying. He should show some respect.
They think I've lost my touch, Lew. My association with television has cheapened me.
Are you referring to that deal I got you where Bristol-Meyers pays you twenty-nine grand an episode and you own the negative? That's my kind of cheap.
They just want the same thing over and over. They've put me in a coffin and now they're nailing down the lid.
Hitch, I will never let that happen.
How much do you think you can make this picture for?
Eight hundred thousand... Give or take.
I have whisky in the car.
You're back early.
I'm disappointed you didn't give Whit's book a chance.
What about him?
He knows you well enough.
Enjoy the pool now. We might not have it for that much longer.
Why?
Paramount refuses to finance the movie. Imagine -- The studio that brought you Martin and Lewis and The Greatest Show On Earth considers Psycho distasteful.
Lew can't find the money. Not quickly enough at least.
Why not wait?
We're going to have to go it alone, old girl.  We'll finance the movie ourselves.
Are we going to have to sell the entire house or just the pool?
Tell me and I won't ever ask again. Why this one, Hitch? It's not just because so many people are telling you 'no,' is it?
Hitch?
Remember the fun we had when we started out and there was so little money and time? We took risks, we experimented. We invented new ways of making pictures because we had to.
I want to feel that kind of freedom again.
Barney, we're about to propose a restructured deal for "Psycho"...
We finance it. Independently. Paramount only distributes it...in exchange for 40 percent of the profits.
Interesting. But tell us, what exactly is Paramount distributing? Is this still a picture about a queer killing people in his mother's dress?
What this picture is about is the reputation of Alfred Hitchcock.
No-one's arguing that.
Barney, it's very simple. This is Mr. Hitchcock's next film. Are you in or are you out?
Well, obviously you have a lot of passion for this project. Let me talk it over with a few people internally and I'll get back to you.
No. Now.
Fine. We'll take that deal. If you can get the money...
We've already got it, Barney.
Who do I make it out to?
If this picture fails, Alma, we'll be in for a long, humiliating bout of crow- eating.
The movie will be splendid.
Are you sure?
Of the movie? Not in the least. But of you? Unquestionably.
Joe Stefano. Good to meet you.
Sorry I was late. My shrink session ran overtime. I see him every day and it's still not enough.
I thought only director's assistants needed psychiatrists, not writers.
Do you see a shrink, Mr. Hitchcock?
No.
I must say it boggles the mind to imagine what you and your "shrink" could possibly talk about daily.
The usual: sex. Rage. My mother.
There's still the federal income tax payments... the property taxes... Not to mention the absence of any salary while he's actually making the film...
Stop waffling, Donald. Give it to me straight.
Hitch wasn't exaggerating. If the film's a flop, you're going to have to sell the house.
Where do you suggest we cut?
Anywhere you can.
I got Joe Stefano to write out the first few scenes. Why don't you take a look?
We're about to have dinner. You don't need anything else.
Well?
Hire him.
The only thing worse than a visit to the dentist is one to the censor.
Whatever you do, Alfred, don't lose your temper.
The Code will absolutely not permit you to show a knife penetrating a woman's flesh.
I assure you, Geoffrey, my murders, are always models of taste and discretion.
Is there any improper suggestion of nudity in this murder scene in the shower?
She won't be nude. She'll be wearing a shower cap.
We might accept a shot from outside the bathroom window with Marion in silhouette above the shoulders -- provided the glass is frosted.
It's completely necessary. Marion flushes evidence later found by her sister. It's a clue to the girl's disappearance.
No American movie has ever found it "necessary" to show a toilet, let alone to flush it.
Perhaps we ought to shoot the film in France and use a bidet instead?
Mr. Hitchcock, if this office denies you a seal, and we're certainly heading in that direction, your movie will not be released in a single theater in this country. Will you be making jokes then?
Good. Now why don't we go all the way back to page two...
Everyone in Hollywood resents me. I make them millions... and yet every year I sit at those dreadful award show dinners, waiting for them to say, just once, "You're good."
They take sadistic pleasure in denying me that one little moment.
That must hurt.
Deeply.
You'll have to excuse me, doctor. I'm not used to this... process...
Take your time.
It's just that, more and more lately, I've been having these... impulses.
What kind of impulses?
Strong ones.
Send them all back to Glendale.
The Lazar Office tells me he's crazy to work with you.
Well, tell "Swifty" he shouldn't have overexposed his client on television.
Unlike certain people we could mention.
Think of the duality he could bring to Norman. The rage lurking behind that little-boy-lost grin. The winsome charm he uses to keep from being found out.
Why, Alma, you're not suggesting that Mr. Perkins is -- ?
I can't count how many times I've seen Strangers On a Train and Rope.
Well, Norman is the logical extension of the boys in those movies. Appealing, sensitive, suffering the terrible burden of being forced to pretend to be something he is not.
My only worry is that playing Norman might cut too close to home.
How so?
I was incredibly close to my mother. So close I remember wishing my father would drop dead. And then when I was five, he did just that...He keeled over from a heart attack.  You see I've been guilty my whole life, Mr. Hitchcock.
Try to remember this is all just make believe.
Not to be prudish, but how far do you plan to push Norman's relationship with his mother?
Further than you can possibly imagine.
I'm getting blisters just looking at you.
Stop grumbling. A bit of fresh air and exercise is exactly what you need.
If I could get Grace Kelly to play the girl, they'd let me get away with anything.
Well you can't. She's a princess now which makes her permanently unattainable.
And all the more desirable.
Lew suggested Deborah Kerr.
Too... Scottish.
What about Janet Leigh? She's always the `good girl' but she did awfully well in Touch of Evil. Lew mentioned her name. Do you remember how you always remarked on her figure at the Wassermans' parties?
Of course the real secret of Mrs. Simpson's appeal to the Duke of Windsor was that she could make a toothpick feel like a cigar.
You know, I've been so immersed in preparing to play Marion I'd almost forgotten how to laugh.
Now, you must try the banana shortcake.
Nothing for me, thank you. I'm watching my figure.
You're not the only one.  We're fine, thank you.
Bring her the banana shortcake, George. In fact make it two large portions.
So do tell me, how else have you've prepared to play Marion?
I've written a complete history for her...It seems silly, but it helps me.
It doesn't sound silly at all. Tell me one of her deepest secrets.
She leads a double life. For instance, when she works at the Lowery office, she wears Tweed perfume. But, when she and Sam are together, she recklessly breaks out her one expensive bottle -- "My Sin" by Lanvin.
But...I do have a concern or two. I'm an actress but I'm also a wife and mother first, so I'm wondering just how you'll do that shower scene.
You and the Shurlock Office.
It's just... I mean even if you shoot me from here -- (she indicates a spot just above her bosom) -- well it's not as if my figure is boyish.
Allow me to put your mind at rest.
May I show you some of Mr. Saul Bass's marvellous story boards?
I plan to shoot quick bits of film from various angles. 
Cut together, this montage will suggest nudity and violence but nothing will actually be shown.
And having you in the shower will make it all the more tit-illating --
If you'll excuse me.
Oh, come off it, old girl.
Hello Lillian.
Don't upset yourself, darling. It's only a bloody movie.
I've made a list of places where we can tighten our belt.
It wouldn't hurt for us all to learn the art of self restraint.
The gardeners only once a week and weekends off for the driver? No. Absolutely not. We'll find other places to cut.
There aren't any other places. And furthermore, they'll be no more shipments from Maxim's either. We can't afford it.
The foie gras at Chasen's is more than adequate.
But those geese are from Barstow not Marseilles.
We all have to make our little sacrifices for the greater good, don't we, Alfred?
Stay here. I'm going to get the knives.
Help me.
Ed! Ed!
Ed... Ed...?
Am I making a mistake?
What if it's another Vertigo?
Oh, shut up. Just get the first take under your belt you'll be fine.
I still can't believe you cast Vera Miles as the sister.
I've still got her under contract. I may as well get something out of it.
Rather a thankless role, don't you think?
For an utterly thankless girl.
Shurlock's office called again. They want to know when you'll be making the changes to the script.
The more we frustrate them the more their interest will wane.
Break it to me gently. Am I playing a lesbian librarian?
 He chose it himself and had it imported from Paris.
If I wear that, I'm going to look like George Washington.
Wait until you see the undergarments he picked out for you.
I just have to keep telling myself, one more picture and I'm free as a bird.
Is there a fan blowing somewhere?
Wow. The old man really is unhappy with me, isn't he?
Are you decent my dear?
Am I alright?
Perfect.
I want to thank you again for this opportunity, Mr. Hitchcock.
It's just "Hitch", Tony. Hold the cock.
Look at you two. America's favorite boy and girl nextdoor...
And we're about to move to a whole new neighborhood.
Morning Janet. Morning Tony.
"Thanks" for the wardrobe, Hitch.
 That's hand-woven imported camel hair from Rodier. Don't you approve?
You're the genius.
One thing, though. My script is missing the last ten pages.
Everyone's is. Until Alma finishes the revisions. Now hurry along, Vera. You're just in time for the oath.
The what?
I solemnly promise...
I solemnly promise...
 That I will not divulge the plot nor the many secrets of Psycho...
That I will not divulge the plot nor the many secrets of Psycho...
To friends, relatives, trade reporters or columnists -- not even to outgoing President Dwight D. Eisenhower, God bless him.
Now, Hitch, explain to me why I'm watching Marion undress?
I feel like I should take offense at that.
I don't know...Perhaps as a boy, Norman secretly watched his mother preparing for her nightly bath.
Maybe there was a transom over the bathroom door?
Yes -- one he could access with a chair so long as he was stealthy.
Well, a boy's first glimpse of a naked woman is usually his mother.
So...I'm reliving the past, repeating a ritual with Marion?
You're the actor. You figure it out.
Hitch, I have a question. Why is the hole much larger on this side?
All the better to see you at the greatest possible angle my dear...
Wow. You really do your research, don't you?
It's just my Jesuit work ethic.
The truth is... I'm only happy when I'm working...
... and if I'm not working then I'm nothing. I'm not even a person. I'm just a collection of molecules. A useless cylinder of ugly flesh.
What about your mother? Let's go back to her.
My mother? Yes.
She was an extraordinary person. She exposed me to Ibsen, Strindberg, Shaw. She hoped I would go into engineering -- carry a lunch pail, gold watch at fifty.
She didn't approve of your career?
To her, movie people were akin to thieves and prostitutes.
If I misbehaved, she'd make me stand at the foot of her bed and discuss how I planned to become a better boy.
Have you ever considered that your deep desire to gain the approval of your industry represents a textbook case of transference?  The Oscar is your mother.
You're a fine one to talk.
You will be wearing a white bra like this for the opening scene on the bed. And then after you've stolen the money...
I switch to one of these.
Are you sure you don't want to look at something a little more elegant?
 No. They have to look like they were bought at Sears and Roebuck. I want every woman in the audience to look up at Janet having sex with John Gavin and think, `that could be me'.
This is the brand I wear.
We're ready for a fitting.
We travel across the rooftops of downtown Phoenix and finally, through the heat, pick out a certain hotel window...
We go under the blinds and match dissolve into the room itself...
We pan over and discover John and Janet on the bed.
She'll be wearing only her undergarments and a large glow of satisfaction...
Cut.
Good luck getting this one past the censor.
You girls go on ahead.
If you ask me, the credits should read "Screenplay by Joseph Stefano and Alma Reville."
The people who matter know. That's all that counts.
I'd hate to see Shurlock's face when he reads this.
Alma, you always know the answer. Is this really going to work?
Hello, stranger.
Whit.
Where have you been hiding yourself?
I've been doing the revisions on...
Psycho.  And how is the old boy?
In a state of unbridled ecstacy now that he's back on the set.
And you? How are you?
Not bad. I've got eight hundred words to do for Reader's Digest on what it's like to be married to a man obsessed by murder.
I've got a better idea.
Why don't we drive out to Santa Barbara? We'll have Emilio fry up those juicy steaks we like at El Encanto.
No shoptalk ... No silly magazine articles...just a wonderful meal...
I'll be right there.
Was there a line at the market?
No. Actually, I'm back sooner than I expected.
Would you like a cocktail?
No.  And you shouldn't either.
Those haven't been washed yet.
 I don't care.  I was filming all day with John Gavin -- a good-looking chap but, really, plywood is more expressive. His love scene with Janet may be most horrifying thing in the picture.
Even your friend Whitfield Cook would be better in the scene.
You should tell Whit that. He'd be flattered.
Maybe I was too dismissive about your friend Whitfield's book. Perhaps he and Elizabeth could come over this weekend and he can walk me through it.
Lovely woman, Elizabeth...
I was hoping you could come by the set tomorrow.
I'll see how my day shapes up.
You think you can get away with it but you can't...
... You think they can't tell... but they can. They know. It's all closing in on you. The noose is tightening...
You could return the money secretly, but what would be the point?
You, Marion Crane. The prim and proper girl who's always been so tight and respectable. So perfect and untouchable. Well, they know all about your dirty little secret, don't they? Your messy, sticky lunchtime trysts. Yes, your boss Mr. Lowery could even smell the sex on YOU--
Circle that.
Have you talked to him much about your personal life?
Not really...
I'd keep it that way if I were you.  He starts by choosing your hairstyle and clothes and then he wants to choose your friends and decide how many children you should have.
That poor, tortured soul Jimmy Stewart played in Vertigo? That's Hitch, only younger, slimmer and better-looking.
Compared to Orson Welles, he's a sweetheart.
 See? He's always watching.
What's the hold up?
It's still engaged.
Hitch, I'm stuck on Lila's first scene. I don't know how strongly I should confront Sam and the detective and I --
 Fake it.
Does it really require two men to carry a light stand?
It's different when their pay is coming out of your own pocket.
Well, I think that sounds like a fabulous idea. We'll have a late lunch. I'll make the reservation for one thirty.
What would I do without you?
Till then, bye.
 What did you forget now?
Whit? Is that you?
Mr. Hitchcock, every press outlet is driving us crazy for photos --
Are you okay? You've gone very pale.
Stop trailing me like a puppy dog and get me something long, cool and wet.
It's not even three.
Give me the key!
Hello, Hitch. How's the picture? I'm hearing interesting things...
It's a wonder you can hear anything over the noise coming from the Shurlock office.
I shouldn't be in a position of just hearing things, Hitch. It's time you showed me some footage.
Why?
To see if you're making a picture Paramount can actually release.
As you well know, Barney, my contract guarantees me final cut.
Your contract also says Paramount isn't required to distribute any film that could cause us embarrassment.
Unlike the last five Martin and Lewis pictures you're all so proud of.
I demand to see some footage, Hitch.
Connect me to Maxim's of Paris.
 Yes, it's Alfred Hitchcock in Hollywood, California, Jean-Claude. I need three pounds of foie gras sent on the next flight out.  That's correct. Three.
Those steaks haven't changed at all, have they?
It's so nice not to have to take care of someone, even if it's just for an hour or two.
Whit, where are we going? You still haven't told me.
I have a little surprise.
A surprise. How fun.
What happened to your driver?
I've been asking myself the same thing.
I can give you a ride if you want.
Did you know Adolf Hitler sketched the design for this car on Ferdinand Porsche's cocktail napkin in a Berlin beer garden?
I didn't.
It's only now that I truly appreciate just how diabolical Herr Hitler was.
May I?
Help yourself.  I pinched them from Tony's dressing room.
So this is what they eat at the drive- ins...
I thought you only ate Fauchon chocolate.
Needs must when the devil drives, my dear.
I don't mind that he uses his obsession to fuel his art. I just don't like it when he uses it against me.
He's like any great artist. Impossible to live with but worth the effort. (he throws a rock into the SEA) Van Gogh wasn't exactly a walk in the park either.
Did you know when we started out I was his boss? He didn't even dare ask me out until he'd worked his way up to assistant director.
What do you think of that place over there?
Looks nice. Terrific location. Why?
It's mine.
I just saw Elizabeth. Why on earth didn't she tell me?
She doesn't know about it.
So what did happen between you and Vera?
I was going to make her star. But she chose the life of a housewife.
I cast her as the lead in Vertigo. Then two weeks before filming she told me was pregnant.
Why do they do it? Why do they always betray me?
I'm just leasing it for the offseason. A place to get away from the wife and kid and write.
Very Bohemian.
You might find that room interesting.
Whit. I hope you haven't got the wrong idea.
If you were serious about helping me adapt my book, I thought it would be the perfect hideaway.
So I read your finished treatment. "Taxi to -- " Where was it?
Dubrovnik.
That's it. Dubrovnik. Care to hear my opinion?
Yes. Naturally.
There's no other way of saying it. It's stillborn. Dead in the water.
How so?
 The plot's a muddle. Some of the jokes are awfully like things we already did better hundreds of years ago in The Lady Vanishes. And your villain is weak. But the biggest failure is the relationship between the hero and heroine.
If you weren't so smitten with your friend Whitfield cook you'd probably see that.
Women never really care to face the truth when their hearts are involved, do they?
How would you know what really goes on between a man and a woman?
Look at this mess.
Bloody belt-tightening.
Tell the boss we're ready.
What's the hold-up? Call time was two hours ago.
And you're sure this moleskin will stay put?
Mr. Hitchcock promised.
It better. I'm going to be taking a shower all week.
Forget what Hitch said. He's just feeling his age. He'll come around.
But he's right. It does need more feeling.
So why don't we put some in?
All we need is a better catalyst. Some innocuous little trigger to release all that underlying desire.
Good morning.
As I explained earlier, this scene will be made up of many shots from Mr. Bass's boards. A series of looks - actions... 
Well, you're the professional. You'll know how to do it.
Ah. There's our murderess.
 Are you ready for our little bloodbath?
My mother always said, "Have confidence in yourself and you can lick anything."
My mother used to say the same thing.  Let's go for a take. Quiet everyone.
Cut. More intensely. Let's go again.
No. More angry. You are possessed with unbridled homicidal rage.  Cut. Cut camera.
Does no one understand what I'm trying to accomplish here? I'm older than anyone on this stage and I'm still standing.
Give me the knife.
Props. Bring in more blood.
Roll camera.
Ready, sir.
THE SHOWER CURTAIN GETS YANKED BACK AGAIN --
Print. We've got it.
Not now, Ed. It's really not a good time.
You just can't keep this stuff bottled up.
Oh God...
What if Helen and Michael try and get into the cab at the same time?
Even better, what if they reached for the cab door at exactly the same time?
That way, we could start close on the hands...  ... and then tilt up to the eyes.
That feels better already.
Are you going to get that?
Hullo?... Yes... Hold on.
It's for you.
I know you told me only to call in an emergency, but I'm not sure how else to describe this.
It's official. The inmates are running the asylum.
Hilton. I have Mr. Hitchcock for you.
Hey there, Hitch. We're still working on it. (looking over at the CONTINUING ARGUMENT) Everyone misses you.
I've told Peggy and now I'm going to tell you. You have to get this sequence shot today. What's the hold up?
We tried it ten different ways and it looks terrible. Why don't we use inserts?
No. It has to be a high angle. You'll tip off the big surprise! Just get the process shot.
No more phone calls. You're burning up.
Burning up our money. We're two days behind and I'm stuck in bed.
Where do you think you're going?
To the set. We can't afford to lose any more time. Two more days of this and the whole production goes under.
You stay in bed. I'll deal with it.
I'd hate to take you away from your writing partner.
Under the blankets. Now.
Don't stop work because of me. I'm only here as one of the two people paying your salaries.
Scene?
One seventy three.
Storyboards?
Start with the overhead. We'll cut before the fall. Then we'll put Martin in a chair under the camera.
 And that lens should be a thirty-five.
You forgot to look in the bathroom.
A man like you... Missing the vital clue like that...
What do you mean?
My mother always said if you're going to do a job, do it right.
Check the floor.
Closer.
You still think they're just writing together?
So what are you going to do about it?
Barney.
Alma.
You know David Kirkpatrick. He's working on Jerry Lewis' next picture.
So he's free to help...  if you need it...
That won't be necessary.
But you're nearly three days behind.
Alma. We both know what kind of film this is.  The smart thing to do would be to help Hitch finish it.
Thank you for your concern, Barney.
But on a Hitchcock picture, there is only one director.
Mrs. Hitchcock?
I hope you don't mind. I heard Hitch was sick so I got him a little something.
That's kind of you.
Well, he's been very considerate with me.  I haven't always had that from my directors.
Janet, you've been very... professional. It hasn't gone unappreciated.
May I turn that down?
You'll be pleased to know order has been restored.
A thank you would be nice.
We're still two days behind and sixty thousand over budget.
I already cancelled the wrap party. That'll save us two thousand right there. And you won't be tempted by any champagne and cake.
Beware -- all men are potential murderers.
With good reason.
Alright, what's this about?
Spending a lot of time at the beach?
That's where Whit and I are writing. He's rented a place.
Hardly the ideal setting to avoid distractions.
Actually, it's very conducive to creative collaboration.
I already told you -- that treatment is a waste of time.
Didn't everyone say the same thing about "Psycho"?
Are you and Whit having an affair?
Don't be absurd. He's working on something new and needs a little help, that's all.
What a coincidence. I'm working on something new and I could use a little help too.
What do you think I've been doing?
Then why are you spending all hours of the day and night with some overage, talentless mamma's boy?
Because it's fun.
I am under extraordinary pressures on this picture, the least you can do is give me your full support.
Full support? We've mortgaged our house. My house.
Might I remind you that I have weighed-in on every aspect of this film so far, as I have done on every picture you've done in the last three decades. And the first time you show the film, it will be my notes that you want. I celebrate with you if the reviews are good and I cry for you if they are not. I host your parties and put up with those fantasy romances with your leading ladies. And when you're out promoting this film around the world, I will stand beside or, rather, slightly behind you, smiling endlessly for the press even when I'm ready to drop, being gracious to people who look through me as if I were invisible because all they can see is the grand and glorious "Alfred Hitchcock."
Now, for the first time in years, I dare to work on something that isn't "an Alfred Hitchcock Production" and I'm met with accusation and criticisms. This work I'm doing with Whit gives me pleasure and purpose. 
And even though that takes absolutely nothing away from you, please consider this a reminder: I am your wife, Alma Reville, not one of the contract blondes you badger and torment with your oh-so- specific direction.
Free at last.
Thanks Rita.
 Hello Hitch.
Well, Vera. You always make it look so easy.
Oh, it was nothing, Hitch. I just faked it.
Well, I guess this is au revoir...
Why didn't you stay with me? I would have made you as big a star as Grace Kelly.
Unlike Grace Kelly, I can pick up my dry cleaning. I've got a family, Hitch. A home. That will always mean more to me than all of this.  That blonde woman of mystery you're after? She's a fantasy. She doesn't exist.
There was a time when I thought I understood you so completely -- understood women....
Alma, I thought you were coming later tonight.
I thought you rented this place so we could write.
I did. I swear -- this just happened.
You won't say anything, will you?
Don't worry. I won't tell Elizabeth.
I mean to Hitch.
We can't all be geniuses.
Alma -- you're incredibly talented. But, after all... we want him to read the script with an open mind.
Oh, I wouldn't worry about that, Whit.
You're going to have to cut all that nudity.
What nudity? It was suggested.
I definitely saw that knife jabbing her.
We did no such shot.
I'd stake my reputation on it. I'm recommending you cut the shower scene entirely.
I'll go over it frame by frame and set up another screening.
What's the verdict?
Let's just say it was a four-letter review and it wasn't `good'.
Screw him. It's too late for Paramount to back out no matter what Balaban says.
The other route is to recut it as a two- parter for the TV series. Because of the budget and the Hitchcock name, we stand a good chance of breaking even.
Look, I made Jimmy Stewart a millionaire of Winchester 73 and that was a dog. At least I could sit through your picture.
More importantly, what does Alma think?
Is there anything else we can do?
We'll just have to wait and see how the movie turns out.
Well, it is only a house.
This is my favorite place. I just shut the doors and leave the world behind.
Pass me that bag, will you?
Don't you get lonely out here sometimes?
I can always talk to my mother.
That's strange.
Jesus Christ.
I think we found his hiding spot.
 They can't go in there. That's my mother's room...
They can't go in there!  That's my mother's room!!
An odd little movie. Of course, Colbert is wonderful.
How was the beach?
Cold and miserable.
Just like Barney Balaban's face.
Whit isn't worth a damn when he's not working with you.  And neither am I.
I didn't pull off the picture this time. It just sits there, refusing to come to life.  There's no other way to say it... It's stillborn.
I let you down, my love.
You deserved better.
I'll go and feed Geoffrey and Stanley, shall I.
I don't think I can stand both of us being maudlin.
There is one solution to all this, you know.
We could both get to work -- together.
That tiresome little Hitchcock imitation I've been helping Whit finish is done.
So I suggest, for everyone's sake, we start whipping Psycho into shape tomorrow. You may not be the easiest man to live with but you know how to cut a picture better than anyone.
Except for you.
You'll need to cut those six or seven frames where she blinks after she's supposed to be dead.
We've seen the footage a thousand times. She doesn't blink.
 Take thirty frames off the head...
No, no, the second take, the light is better on his hands.
 Only cut back to Janet once the car's already moving.
Cut it tighter. The minute I lose one person I've lost the whole audience.
You imp. You got nudity in there.
Her breasts are very large, dear. It was a challenge not to show them.
I'll be damned. She did blink.
How's it going in there with Mr. Herrmann?
Swimmingly.
Everyone's saying it's a dog with fleas.
Absolutely not...
...I don't want music in the shower murder.
 But what Alma and I talked about is really going to play.
No. This isn't Vertigo, Bernie. This is different. The images have to work on their own.
You can't scare people just by going, "Boo!" You have to tell them what's coming, make them anticipate it --
Thank God we've got Cinderfella for the holidays.
What do you think?
I think I'm never going to take a shower again.
Hitch?
It's getting there.
I told you, I distinctly saw both the stabbing and the nudity. We're denying your seal, Mr. Hitchcock.
I take your opinion very seriously. But what you think you're seeing is purely informed by the power of suggestion. I assure you that once you view the final version with Mr. Herrmann's lovely, lyrical score...
A "lyrical score" won't change my opinion. All that innuendo and half-naked groping -- really, Hitch.
Would you mind if we had a word in private, Geoffrey?
I have a modest proposal to make. If you're willing to leave the shower sequence as it is, I will reshoot the opening love scene to your exact specifications.
In fact, I'd welcome your personal supervision on the set.
My specifications?
If only audiences could fully appreciate how tirelessly you work to help us entertain them while protecting them from filth and indecency.
He's been harassing you since you announced this project, you invite him to the set, and he doesn't even show up? What did you tell him?
That I respected him. Deeply.
Ladies and gentleman, that is a wrap. Thank you all.
I thought we were reshooting the scene.
No need. The charade is over.
See, I wasn't that much of a monster to work with, was I?
Not at all.
I just hope I was sufficiently loyal to the cause.
Worthy of a Purple Heart, my dear.
I hope you don't mind, I told Mrs. Bates she could have your dressing room.
We have our seal from Shurlock's office.  Now, we lead the lambs to the slaughter.
The front office confirmed. They're only opening the movie in two theatres, as we suspected. And no premiere. If we don't get word of mouth we're dead.
Then we'd better get started. Peggy, take a memo...
We're going to write a manual on exactly how to sell Psycho.
My first instruction to Theater Owners: Hire Pinkerton guards to strictly enforce our unique admission policies.
Furthermore, because Psycho is so terrifying and unique, the guards can help you deal with customers who run amok.
Post our special lobby clocks to remind audiences of the starting times for Psycho.
The manager of this fine motion picture theater has been advised not to allow anyone to enter the theater once Psycho begins.
Should you be so foolish as to attempt to slip in by a side entrance...
... a fire escape or through a skylight, you will be ejected by brute force.
More playful, darling.
"To further emphasize the sheer, unrelenting shock and suspense of Psycho, right after the closing title "THE END," we strongly recommend that you close your house curtains over the screen for a full thirty seconds."
"By doing so, the horror of Psycho will be indelibly etched in the mind and heart of your audience."
"Absolutely never, ever will I allow anything to follow Psycho -- no previews of coming attractions, no newsreel, no short subject and certainly no double- feature. Sincerely, and, emphatically, Alfred Hitchcock."
At the end of the day, it's a minor Hitchcock movie. One week, and it'll be gone...
Like a bad dream.
Well, at least there are some people here.
We can go through the side entrance.
Right this way, Mr. and Mrs. Hitchcock.
Ready for the gallows?
We've roped off some seats for you.
You go on ahead.
Are you sure?
I'll join you in a minute.
I want to double check the print.
Fine, darling. I'll save you a seat.
 But they're laughing too much.
I promised Mother I wouldn't tell.
Mr. Hitchcock, what do I do now that my wife won't take a shower after seeing your movie?
Have her dry-cleaned.
I just got off the phone with Balaban. I couldn't resist telling him we're sold out for the next two weeks.
What did he say?
He said "Tell Hitch congratulations. A well deserved triumph as we always knew."
"As we always knew..."
Does this mean I can take the weekend off now?
I'm sorry, Mr. Hithcock but there are photographers outside. They heard you were here.
This could be the biggest hit of your career, Alfred.
Our career, Alma.
I've realized I'll never be able to find a Hitchcock blonde as beautiful as you.
You do realize I've been waiting decades to hear you say that.
And that, madame, is why they call me "The Master of Suspense"...
 Guess what I'm doing this weekend?
What?
Claudine and I are driving to Chicago with her folks to see that Psycho movie.
I think you're the happiest guy I've ever known, Ed. How you do it?
I'll tell you. You live your life, and it's unbearable sometimes but there's this secret, Chet; a big secret no one else knows or wants to tell...  ... there is a God and he's so big and powerful, he doesn't always remember you're there...
... but if you can get his attention and he sees you're suffering, he'll notice and he'll take care of you. My mother used to tell me -- she's passed, God bless her -- the one thing God truly loves and understands is suffering.
After all, he invented it.
And so, gentle viewer, Psycho -- the picture everyone predicted would bring me to wrack and ruin -- was such a hit that Alma and I got to... Well, let's just say that we got to keep our house -- and the swimming pool. And the same critics who despised it went on to call it one of my greatest achievements.
Of course for me, it was just another "moo-vie."
But you know what they say in Hollywood: "You're only as good as your last picture." So, now, if you'll excuse me, I must toddle off to begin the exhaustive search for my next project.
Unfortunately I find myself once again bereft of all inspiration. I do hope something comes along soon...
Good evening.
