-- how -- ?
-- murdered by his own patients before every one of them perished in the blaze. Ironically, the only humans to escape the conflagration --
-- were five of Vannacutt's equally sadistic Staff, all of whom, until the day they died, insisting that they were only following "Doctor's Orders."
But our story doesn't end there. For, some years later, the gutted interior of the Institute was refurbished as a private residence. It has yet to be inhabited. Many say because the spirits of the vile Vannacutt and his Victims still walk the long corridors inside this place now known, simply, as: "The House On Haunted Hill."
Charming.
I'm Christopher Lee. More of "Terrifying, But True" in just a moment --
No need, baby.
You just gave me exactly what I needed.
 Price.  Evelyn, how nice...  Well, that is fascinating -- but I'm gonna have to get back to you -- they're trying to shoot me here.
A New Adventure From Steven Price
Business or pleasure, Mr. Price?
My wife. Where were we?
Your roller coaster that is, quote: "unlike any that has ever come before it."
Absolutely. No cheap thrills. A genuine Journey To The Brink Of Madness.
Sorry, but it just looks like a generic roller coaster to me. What's the gimmick?
Ever seen one that starts at the top? 20 stories worth of top?
And then what happens?
 I think it's something better experienced then described.
After you.
Sources have told this reporter that the real reason your Park's opening has been delayed was a near-fatal accident on one of the rides here. Comment?
I wouldn't be opening this place tomorrow if every single thing down to the beheaded Beanie Babies hadn't tested 100% safe.
What the hell was that?
 Growing pains: new steel's gotta bend and stretch a little before finally settling in.
Don't worry. In the fifteen year history of Price Amusements we've yet to lose a single customer.
First time for everything.
I've designed and built six of these places -- take my word for it, everything's fine.
 How long 'til we're out of this thing?
Five, ten seconds, we're almost to the top --
Look: even if, God forbid, something ...unexpected...should happen, there's always the safety cable --
-- that does what?
Keeps the cab from just --
-- oh, shit --
Do something!
Like what?? This isn't supposed to be happening!!
OhJesusohChrist!
Please! Something! Oh-God!
Maybe if I --
From here on, it gets really scary.
Room for two more.
 Alright, Princess: now what were you babbling?
 Congratulations: on a scale of one-to- ten, you just hit a 73 on the Perversity Meter. I don't suppose for once we could just celebrate at some nice, quiet little restaurant --
Houston, I think we may have a problem.
 Evelyn, go stir your cauldron or something for a sec.
Problem where? Looked good to me.
"Dummy 6" keeps losing his arm.
So disengage his Flail Arm Mechanism and just make him a screamer.
 Here, dear -- with a suggestion --
-- forget it. Last birthday the Manson Family Ranch, the year before that: Jonestown.
Oh. You think this is a request. Well, think again. I'm telling you: "Haunted Hill" is exactly where we're having my party this year. You'll find the guest list on your desk by the time you get back --
You want it, Precious, you got it: the party of your very short goddamn life.
Uh, Mr. Price? The Dreamworks people are getting a little...antsy.
Tell 'em I'm right there.
Gorgeous.
So what the fuck is it?
I don't know, Ms. Jenzen.
Well, who's the damn thing from?
 Messenger just dropped it off. No return address.
You didn't think to ask?
I was in the middle of --
-- being utterly fucking useless, what else is new.
There's something there on the side --
I'm aware of that.
It's not my goddamn birth --
-- I wouldn't --
-- no kidding: that's why you're making ten bucks an hour and I'm --
Jesus!!
You think this is fucking funny??
No, no, it's just --
-- well, here's a better one: you're fired.
What?
And here's your goddamn severance!
...wow....WOW! Hey, Ms. Jenzen -- ?
Are you still fucking here??
On my way out. Thanks for the valuable parting gift.
The man's insane.
Will Be The Entertainment
Don't get much better than that.
Terrific: what's the catch?
This is the end...by car anyway. What with the '94 quake and El Nino, the driveway's been pretty much destroyed. 'Shame. Have to hoof it from here.
If you don't mind me asking... Who are you?
Name's Pritchett. Watson Pritchett. I own the house, my father built it. And now I just need to get you into it. So...
Where's Steven Price and his huge, throbbing checkbook?
Not with you, is he? Well, I'm sure he'll turn up any second now... If you'll just come along...
I wanna know first: to what do I owe this honor? I mean, I never even heard of this guy.
I'm just the Greeter -- and in that capacity, I now urge you all strongly to --
But the million bucks each, that's for real?
 It better be -- he still owes me $25 grand for renting the place for the night! Here, let's get you some illumination so you can make your way safely!
Just point and walk, sis -- the place is right up --
 ...there.
Nice touch, Pritchett: subtle.
As a tumor.
Wish I could take the credit, but --
-- guess we know where Mr. Price is now.
He must've beaten us all here!
'Less the place really is haunted.
Nonsense! Just bad press. All the deaths that occurred inside -- my own father's included -- all perfectly normal fatal accidents.
You better be wrong. I didn't come all this way for "normal."
You're totally full of shit, aren't you?
 You'll never know 'til you walk through that door!
You wouldn't consider getting my check and running it back down here?
Didn't think so. Asshole.
...Jesus H. Christ.
So where's the party?
Looks like we're it.
More to the point. Where's our host?
More to the point: what in the name of fuck is that?
More of Price's spook-house bullshit.
Not at all!
Part of the original structure. When it was still an asylum. Guy who ran the place -- Dr. Vannacutt -- found it "inspirational." From some German cathedral a million years ago: "Driving the Demons From the Mind."
I'm moved beyond words.
The hint of still weirder shit to come, I can only hope.
Mr. Price? Mrs. Price? Somebody? Hello??
Pritchett, take it down a couple hundred decibels, what is your problem?
Problem? No problem -- just want to get my money and get on home -- you know, things to see, people to do?
Mr. Price?? Mrs. Price??
I knew this whole place'd be pure gold! Pritchett, point me in the direction of the goddamn ghosts! If I can get something bizarre enough on tape, I think I can parlay it into getting me some kind'a Robert Stack "Unsolved Most- Wacked-Out Home Videos" gig. No more five afternoons a week of sex-change- Nazis-and-the-lesbos-that-love-'em.
You've got your own TV show?
The guy whose hair I do has his own TV show. All I've got is a blow-dryer and a dream.
Uh, excuse me -- but does anybody know any logical reason why those little demons would be moving?
Where?
...birds. Just seagulls or something walking on the glass, goddammit.
Cheer up: before the night's through, I'm sure one of us'll get hacked to pieces by somebody or something.
I may start right now.
Who the fuck are all of you??
Oh...my...God....
-- Jesus, lady! --
Wow.
Is she...alright?
I thought she was dead. For sure.
Not even fucking close.  Get...off...of...me.
Not dead now, but soon.
She's been marked for it. The House does that. Happened to Pritchett's father. Likely happen to you all. Isn't that what you told me, Mr. Pritchett?
 I can't remember at the moment.
Don't touch me!
I'm impressed: I don't think Evelyn's ever said those words to anything with genitalia.
I'm not laughing, Steven.
You shouldn't be -- you were nearly just killed, sweetheart.  And now that our birthday girl is finally here, let the games begin!
Haven't they already?
Sure is a funky old house, ain't it?
Could we have a word?
Oh, I think we're going to have several.
This'll just take a moment -- you'll find food and booze in the main salon, knock yourselves out.
So, what? The thing with the glass? Price did that?
I hope not.
Of course he did, for God's sake.  Didn't he, Mr. Pritchett?
I can't comment until I get paid.
I'm surrounded by idiots.
Mr. Price???
Jesus!
I gave you a goddamn guest list two pages long -- where the hell are they?
Shredded. Sorry. Decided to whip up one of my own: a group so hungry for money that they'd be willing to do anything. I thought you'd be more comfortable with your peers.
I guess it was stupid of me not to expect something this twisted from you. Well, congratu-fucking-lations, Steven: Round One, you win.
Well, not quite. See, those people down there: they aren't the ones I invited.
Then who are they?
You tell me. I don't know how you managed to hack into my Mac, but: bravo.
What are you talking about? You think I invited them?
Sure know it wasn't me. And if you say it wasn't you -- then who the hell did, Evelyn?
It you really loved me, Steven, you'd find a way to drop dead in the next three seconds.
Finding ways for me to die at these things is really your deal, isn't it? The "O.J." knife with the not-quite- retractable blade? Your "Jim Jones Kool- Aid" that was exactly that?
All accidents until proven otherwise.
You know how happy I'd be if that was really true, Evelyn? And how positively goddamn delirious if you weren't fucking every living thing in our area code at the same goddamn time!
Which part of that fantasy turns you on most: me with other men -- or just the other men?
You know everything you do gets me hot.
-- just not always in the sexual sense.
You're hurting me.
I know.
Now, there's the simple country gal I married. Let's go back down and greet your guests -- show them the real you: corny as Kansas on the Fourth of July.
My guests were shredded. It's your sick little scene now, Steven: enjoy. I'm going to go run scalding water on the places you just touched me, and then I'm calling a cab.
Mr. Price: I've done everything we agreed on, your guests are all here and in one piece -- my 25 thousand now, please.
Right here, Mr. Pritchett. As well as five other bona fide, bank drafts for one million dollars each. Made out to cash.
And we get this money when?
The second the sun hits tomorrow morning. Assuming you have stayed the entire night - and you're still alive, of course. Any other questions?
Yeah. Why's there five checks? There's only four of us.
You're forgetting my lovely wife; she's part of the same winner-take-all as the rest of you.
What're you talking about?
Oh, sorry. Detail I guess I forgot to mention. You die, you lose. Your check gets divvied-up by those still amongst the living.
What are you playing here, Price?
A very, very scary game. But then look at the bright side: if there's only one of you still upright at dawn, you'll be leaving here with five million dollars in your pocket.
This is nuts.
Yeah. But, hey, anybody who's not "comfortable" with the rules, you're free to walk, anytime. Seven digits poorer, goes without saying.
I'm ready now.
Alright, Mr. Pritchett, let me just sign the damn thing.
Two "T"s at the end of the name.
Just for the record: what are the rest of your names?
Donald W. Blackburn, M.D.
Melissa Margaret Marr, Celebrity.
Eddie Moses, Communications Attache -- which translated from ancient bullshit means: I work for a Messenger service.
And you, young lady?
Jennifer-Jenzen-Executive-V.P.- Paragon-Pictures.
Very good. Well, I think I can say with complete honesty: I've never heard of any of you.
Then what the hell are we doing here?
How'd you make your guest list, Price: throw darts at a phone book?
You're not my list.
I got an engraved -- literally -- invitation -- with my name --
-- I'm sure you did.
This is all maybe getting a little too strange --
-- I wouldn't worry, Ms. Jenzen: the unexplainable will probably explain herself before too long. In the meantime, let's all relax, have a drink, the evening's young --
-- it's getting older by the second. Mr. Price, if I could just please have --
Sorry, Pritchett, here you go.
I think you're gonna miss the bash of a lifetime --
-- my loss --
-- even if I give you a million as well?
Wouldn't know what to do with it all --
Oh, no.
What's going on?
Please -- God-in-Heaven, no --
The windows --
You can't do this to me!
-- NOOOOOOOO!!! --
Now that is enter-fucking- tainment!
This thing's going nowhere.
If this is someone's idea of a joke --
-- Pritchett's not laughing.
-- NO! NO! NO! NO! NO! --
Pritchett!!
Blackburn! His hands, do something!
Bottle of vodka on the sideboard: get it!
Pritchett, what the hell just happened here?
Lockdown.
What does that mean?
A mechanism. From the old Asylum. For Emergencies. Sealed the whole place shut. Top to bottom. That's how come they all burned to death in '31. Dr. Vannacutt threw the switch. If he was gonna die, they all were gonna die, and so they were toast.
No wonder they're still pissed off.
The only ones who survived were five of Vannacutt's staff butchers.
Why in God's name wasn't this thing removed years ago??
It was on my Dad's list of "things to do." But the House did him first.
You said that was an accident.
I lied. The House is alive and we're all gonna die.
Oh, for chrissake --
-- uh, excuse me, just one quick question? How long before this damn thing unseals itself?
Don't know that it does.
Well, then, how 'bout maybe we call someone?
Hasn't been a telephone in this House in over 60 years.
I've got my cellular.
Well, flip a coin and somebody dial 911!
Won't do any good.
Why not?
Must be those plates -- interfering with the signal somehow.
Not the plates: the House. Why is no one listening to me?? It's alive!  And once it's made up its mind, it won't let anything out.
So, what? You're saying we're stuck here the rest of our lives?
A cleaning crew's supposed to arrive at 9:30 tomorrow morning -- I think the power of the house fades at dawn.
-- well, let's hear it for small miracles --
-- but I imagine we'll all be mutilated beyond recognition by then.
Goodbye, bad times -- hello, Prime Time!
There is something seriously screwed-up going on here, and I don't believe it's about ghosts --
-- oh, it sure ain't, sweetheart.
Take a bow, Steven, you've outdone yourself tonight -- scared holy hell out of even me.
If that's the fact, Price, okay, you've had your fun -- now open the goddamn --
-- asking the wrong guy -- wasn't me who closed it.
Sure it wasn't. Hey, anybody else here make their living with thrills'n'chills for the kiddies? Don't raise your hands all at once.
Huh. And here I had a completely different theory.
Really? Well, let it rip.
Oh, no-no-no -- much more bang for everyone's buck to nail the bitch --
-- the sadistic prick --
-- in the act.
Uh, excuse me? Don't think I'm not having the time of my life watching this train wreck that's your marriage -- but this isn't what I had in mind... I want to know that we can get out of here if we need to.
Believe me, we need to.
Pritchett, this "lockdown" thing -- it's gotta have like a master control -- you know machinery, gears, whatever -- somewhere in this place?
The basement -- but, believe me, you don't want to go down there.
No, you don't want to go down there. I am going down there. And I'm going to find reverse on this thing and floor it.
You'll never find it, it's a maze down there.
Well, that leaves you with two options then, doesn't it: either show me where and maybe we get out of here -- or it's spend-the-night-sleep-tight.
It's actually very easy when you know the way.
A word of advice, honey? God knows what kind of freak-outs Steven's got set to spring in this place. If I were you, I'd bring something to protect yourself with. Baby, don't you think now's the time to I break out your "party favors?"
What are you talking about?
Must be getting old, Stevie -- you're repeating yourself -- this is the exact same set-up you used for the Son-Of-Sam Hunt back in '94.  Girlie, open up that casket there and see what you find.
Ooooh, nice: firearms this time.
The warped factor here just gets bigger and bigger.
Steven's sense of humor just makes you want to bust a gut, don't it?
I'm in stitches.
The clip's been welded shut.
On all of them, probably.
So how's a girl to know if these things are loaded, baby?
Only one way I can think of, Sweetheart.
No. I think we'll let the young lady have first crack.
I don't want a gun, I just want out. Let's go, for God's sake.
I'll meet you down there.
 Take the gun.
And where are we off to, Mr. Price? Check the wiring on the animatronic Mummies?
A simple leak, if it's okay with you.
Wow...
Y'know, this'd actually be funny -- if I didn't know for a fact I'd be pleading for a quick, painless death in the next few seconds.
Could somebody please just gag him or something?
You're a handy little thing to have around.
And you're not really as large and useless as you seem.
I'm better than that.
Don't push it.
Now take us where this damn thing's at.
-- hey! Next time give me a couple seconds notice before you wing a gag like that!
The lockdown thing.
I mean, not that it didn't give Evelyn the kind of coronary I had in mind, just...
-- it wasn't me.
Rewind that.
I was just sitting here -- it happened. I had nothing to do with it.
Then who did??
No idea. I didn't even know the damn thing still worked!
It works.
Maybe it was just its time to finally fall apart.
No. Somehow -- I don't know how -- she did it.
Pretty amazing feat: all that shit down the basement and your wife's up in the bedroom the whole time.
Don't take your eyes off her for a second. I think she just declared War.
We'd've been splitsville years ago, with me the richest single woman in recorded history -- but Steven doesn't "believe" in divorce.
Not too big on it myself -- but then again, not on marriage either.
Oh, he's got no problem with that: I'm his fourth.
I'm confused.
No need for divorce and that messy division-of-assets thing when they kick before you do.
All three of his previous wives just up and died?
Damnedest thing: each one, freaky little "accidents" --
You should really open this place to the public, Pritchett -- a spa for people without enough stress in their lives.
I said we shouldn't come down here. Very treacherous -- physical and metaphysical levels, both. There've been no refurbishments to this part of the house -- it's exactly as it was in 1931.
Is that a fact, Mr. Pritchett?
Sorry.
Good way to get your head blown off.
I'll try not to remember to warn Evelyn.
What's in there?
 Nothing.
Nothing? That seems like quite a door to hold back "nothing".
What is it? What's in there?
 The Soul of the House. Everything that's corrupt about it... My father trapped it in there just before he died. You see, he purchased the house to restore it... We were going to live here... Nothing can live here. I was just a kid... The first time I saw it, I thought it was beautiful... It was just a dark mist turning into the corner of the room... then it started to move... then death started to happen... First the workers.. six in all... then my father...
Ghosts killed your father?
Not ghosts... at least not what you're thinking... Vannacutt used to dump the bodies of his failed experiments somewhere in the house...
And you think it's in there?
Accumulated evil... festering for decades...  But I'm a drunk... so don't listen to me.
So you're saying as long as that door stays locked, we're okay?
Hell NO!! The House will kill ya!
I think we go down there and take a right.
Electro-shock therapy. There's several of them hooked together... Dr. Vannacutt liked to zap his patients in multiples of ten. More enerqy-efficient or something. Let's try a left.
Damn-it-all! This is the Saturation Chamber! Left again!
What's a "Saturation Chamber"?
New wrinkle on an old theory for treating schizophrenia. 19th Century, I think: what would drive a sane man mad should make a madman sane. The Vannacutt version was: bombard the patient with aural and visual stimuli far more frightening than any hallucination they could ever produce, it'd traumatize 'em back to "normalcy."
Did it work?
Hey! Where'd you guys go?
Left, goddamnit!
 C'mon -- I've got like zero interest in getting lost down here.
Hey, Price! Pritchett!
Lemme try something. Gimme a boost.
-- hey, pal, that wasn't code for --
-- where you need to go?
Three steps forward -- I want to get up there.
Why?
This whole place can't be wired to just one circuit --
Bingo!
-- better than nothing. Down, big fella'.
Thanks.
Most fun I've had all day.
You need to get out more.
So, who are you really?
What? Deep down inside?
Start with the name you were born with, and we'll work forward from there.
I told you already: Jennifer Jenzen, Executive V.P. of --
I don't think so...
Why not?
Most of my business is making deliveries to high rollers. And I have yet to meet one Executive who could tie their own shoes -- let alone rewire an entire house. You don't fit the bill -- not even close.
 There's always exceptions.
Not in the movie biz. So, c'mon, gimme the truth.
The truth is, if we keep taking rights, we're going to have to end up where we started.
Look, we're all gonna be out of here in a little while and go our separate ways, all a million bucks richer. What's it matter who I am or who I'm not?
Okay... So let's say, hypothetically, I'm not exactly who I should be -- okay, so you're right, you're a genius, I don't know anybody who could've ever seen right through me like that -- does that end the discussion?
Alright, look: my real name is Sara, and I'm a secretary -- was, anyway -- to the real Jennifer Bitch who was invited here, and now you know and I'm begging you don't tell anybody, 'cuz I'm out of a job and could really use even a tenth of that money, okay?
Can I just get a "yes" or a "no"??
We may have to...look for other means to get out of here.
What happened to what's-their-names?
Eddie...?
If this is your idea of funny, think again!
In fact, you're really starting to piss me off!
Hey, pal: game called on account of boredom, let's go --
Eddie...??
What is your problem?
Hey!
You know, I was actually starting to like you, you creep!
Okay, you win. You've successfully creeped me out.
What are you doing --
-- Eddie!!
-- Eddie! Eddie! Oh my god!
-- Eddie!!
Over here.
What's going on, you lose something down there?
What are you doing? Are you okay?
Now it's marked the two of you.
I suppose it's too much to hope that all that blood means --
 -- nope, he's still alive.
Evelyn, could you just zip it for a moment? It looks like we're stuck here 'til morning -- let's make the best of it.
Best of a nightmare.
There is something very not normal going on here!
This? This is nothing. You've only been dealing with the House itself. You have no idea what you're tinkering with. Sooner or later, the darkness that is at the core will get out... One of you will release it... Not meaning to, of course... then...  ...Bye, bye, Miss American Pie...
Pritchett, what is this "core of darkness"?
I thought you understood.... It's the souls of Vannacutt's dead... The insanity... The horror... Victims burned alive... All that pain percolating somewhere in the house for seventy-some years...  ...singing this will be the day that I die... This will be the day that I....
There must be some other way out.
Well, until that's found, I think it's a good idea we all stick together.  Or wouldn't that fit into your plans, baby?
Fine with me. Just somebody then better go and round up Melissa Marr.
Where is she?
Stalking the wild poltergeist.
Curiouser and curiouser. We're talking a fifty share, minimum.
Fuck me bald.
Jesus...
Could be old Melissa found what she was looking for.
She's dead. Chalk up one for the House.
Melissa!
Ms. Marr!
Oh, Jesus: down here!
What?
Is she alright?
....I don't...know.
Something just must've...frightened her, that's all.
Yeah...something.
Jesus.
It just...stops here.
Maybe....maybe she went up on the table.
Nobody, nothing's been on this in...67 years.
Well, she went somewhere! She didn't just up and disappear into thin air!
No...not air --
-- into the House.
There's gotta be some way out --
-- of this place, goddamnit, Pritchett!
Yes.
Alcoholic coma, if you hurry.
Jesus H. Christ!
Oh dear.
 If you don't calm the hell down I'm gonna strap you in for electro-shock!
 How you gonna manage that with a new blow-hole in your dome?
Hey, if everybody's gonna kill each other, could you do it in another room? I'm trying to get something accomplished here.
What the hell good is fixing that gonna get us?
An answer, I hope: exactly what -- or who -- Melissa was taping.
And then where are we?
Put it this way: if it's your face on that tape, Mr. Moses, we're one gunshot away from solving all our problems --
-- fuck you!
I got it! Something, anyway...
The motor's working, but the tape's pretty much D.O.A. -- I could only rewind it back a couple of feet. Don't blink, this is probably the first and only showing.
Game, set and match, Steven. You've outdone yourself. And I know it's not good manners to ask the magician how he did it, but inquiring minds are desperate to know: just what did really happen to Ms. Marr?
Asking the wrong person again.
I mean, did she stage it all for you and then go hide -- or did you just flat out kill the little bitch --
-- I pose you the same question --
-- and who's next on your list?
If I had one, Evelyn, I think you know who'd be first and last --
-- oh, for chrissake, that's a given; we all know that knocking me off is the bottom line here --
-- that wasn't my original plan, but it is starting to look more attractive --
-- thank you! All the cards finally on the goddamn table!
Just know I'm not gonna make it easy for you. We still don't know the answer to the Million Dollar Question --
Jesus!
Question answered.
They weren't loaded when I put them in there!
Funky little house, ain't it?  Friends, your hostess is now going to retire for what's left of the night. If you need me, I'll be in the bedroom upstairs -- but try and fight that need: the door'll be locked, I'll be trying to sleep, and if anyone so much as breathes in the keyhole, I'm gonna empty this thing into their fucking head. Thank you all for the bestest birthday a girl could have.
Even if I were inclined, I've had better -- and a lot safer -- opportunities to kill off a wife.
Three times, to be exact.
Excuse me?
Accidents. Fatal. Each of your prior wives, so we've been informed.
Can't imagine by who. I don't suppose the truth would interest you: that I've never had another wife but Evelyn.
Married. Once. Same woman. All these years. She just slithered up the stairs.
Prove it.
Prove it how?
And what are you planning on doing with that?
I just decided a million bucks is worthless if you ain't around to spend it. There is a way out of this place, and I'm gonna either find it or create it.  Coming or staying?
Yeah, what the hell, I'll go.
Yeah, me too.
More the merrier.
No. I'm going back to try and find Ms. Marr. If she's hurt, I'll tend to her. Dead, then I'm coming back for him.
I think...I may have the answer.
What?
I remember...it was a long time ago...my father said: when the House was finally completed, make sure...we-christen-it- with-this-bottle-of-dirt-cheap-champagne- that-should-still-be-in a cupboard somewhere!
Nothing personal.
Evelyn, goddamnit -- !
-- Schecter, how is she pulling this off!?
What does that mean?
Schecter, what the hell does it mean??
Someone else. Not Evelyn --
There's someone else in the House!
You hear somebody?
No -- keep pulling, it's moving!
Blackburn!
 Ms. Marr...?
Someone else -- !
-- in the House!
 I know, I know -- it's gotta be here somewhere!
You sonovabitch, where are you, I saw you!!
We can do it...
Sure, with three days and a blowtorch.
It's a thousand years old -- we just need a crowbar or something to get leverage -- the sucker'll pop!
No prob: I'll just hop down the hardware store --
-- no. The basement -- the room with all the controls to this thing: big long iron levers just lying there --
-- not a chance -- there's too much weirdness down there I don't think even bullets are gonna stop.
You're starting to sound like Pritchett.
Where is it??
I don't know!!
What is it??
Something with the power, I don't know!!
It's down there!
What's down there?
 The...Fourth of July.
What are you babbling, you lunatic??
Electro-shock.
There's something --
Don't move, don't make a sound...
...Ms. Marr...?
Is it Melissa??
OH JESUS NO!!
-- are you crazy!?!
Turn it off!! Somebody turn the damn thing off!!
I'm sorry --
-- she's not dead! Just have to get her heart pumping aqain!
Mouth-to-mouth!
Oh, Jesus....
Adrenaline -- in your bag, Blackburn, you must have --
-- even it we were in the E.R., Price: it's too late -- her heart's burst!
No...
She's gone.
They don't get any deader.
No.
I...don't think...anybody should be touching the body.
I think I'll do what I damn well please.
She's right, Price. It's a matter for the police.
It is in-fucking-deed. At the risk of stating the obvious: this wasn't exactly a goddamn suicide.
House 2, Guests 0.
I think, Pritchett, we've got a situation here that even you can't explain away as "ghosts." This is ice- cold homicide by person -- or persons --
-- not entirely unknown.
Convenient place to point blame, hon', but this time, the only wrong one: for all I know, somebody should be pointing that gun at you.
I was upstairs with Eddie --
-- that's the fact, bud --
-- where the hell were you?
Upstairs, too. Come with me, I'll show you another body, a friend of mine named Schecter --
-- what was he doing here?
Running all the bells and whistles we set up to scare hell out of everybody --
-- the stained glass --
-- yeah, we did that --
-- the window and door grates --
-- no -- that's when everything went ragtime -- whoever else is in this house has been doing everything since -- I thought it was Evelyn --
-- which is why you killed her.
I was upstairs!
I never saw you --
-- I did: down here.
And I think that's case --
-- closed.
Pritchett, you're not joining this necktie party?
I was upstairs looking for... well, uh... moral support. I don't know what's going on down here, but I like you, and if you say the house didn't kill your wife --
-- then I guess then it had to be you. Sorry.
Thank God -- I was afraid I'd be lynched without a quorum.
If you've got a gun on you, Price, I'd hand it over now.
Not just yet. Would any of you be interested in knowing exactly why I ended up here in the basement?
Fascinated.
I was chasing after somebody I saw in the salon.
Oh, really: who?
Didn't catch his or her name, just followed them down here. Somebody all in white surgical gown.
 Vannacutt!!
Or somebody wanting me to believe that.
Well, I don't.
Then just wait -- maybe this whoever's got you next on the Asylum's equipment- test list. Maybe a literal mind-blow inside the "Saturation Chamber."
I'll take my chances.
Well, I can't, sweetheart.
If there really is someone else in this house, I think the four of us can handle the situation.
I think one of you has been part and parcel of making this situation!
The gun, Price; hand it over: now.
Don't test me, I'm real prepared to use this to stay alive --
-- confirming everything we already know --
-- I'll take the chance, come morning and cops, I'll be proved right --
-- you lose either way, Price --
-- listen to the man --
-- listen to me, goddamnit --
-- no more --
-- no!
NO!!
Who fucked with my gun??
You sonovabitch!!
Now what do we do? We've got to hold him somewhere 'til the police --
-- the "Saturation Chamber." Where he wanted to put me.
What would drive a madman sane would drive a sane man mad.  I need a drink. Anyone wants me, I'll either be upstairs or dismembered.
Pretty old and rusted out -- you sure this thing'll hold him?
Don't think it'll be a problem.
 C'mon.
Shouldn't somebody like, stand guard or something -- just in case?
I'll stay, if it'll ease your mind.
You sure? You'll be alright by yourself?
I'm not worried.
Can't quite make that out -- what?
You want to see how this thing works? Weird request, but okay...
You've got to let me know how it all turns out. Professional courtesy and all that.
Technology by Fred Flintstone.
I think we should have taken a right back there.
Back where?
Good point.
 Let's try down here...
Hey, check it out.
Vannacutt's office.
What are you looking for?
Maybe there are notes or drawings of this place, showing how those plates work.
What've you got?
Class of 1931.
Cheery looking bunch.
Better living through electricity.
Holy shit! Now we know how the guest list was made up. Look, these names... Head Nurse, Ruth-Ann Stockard... Bjorn Jensen, Electro Therapy... Jasper Marr, Thomas Steven Price... They're all here!
Wait a minute... What are you saying?
Everyone that was invited is related to one of the staff who was here when the place burned. There are five of us...
And five that didn't die.
Shit, Pritchett!!!
Price didn't make the guest list... The house did. It wants vengeance.
How's a goddamn building gonna send out invitations?
What's life, anyway? Waves...? Sound...? Light...? Electricity...? I don't know... Phone lines...?
Or an on-line computer.
That's crazy!
What about that other guy?
Schechter? Wrong place at the wrong time... like you.
I don't see Blackburn's name on here...
The late Mrs. Steven Price.
Tragic, tortured Mrs. Steven Price.
Lovely Mrs. Steven Price.
Creamy, cool...and now very cooperative Mrs. Steven Price.
I've missed you.
I've missed this.
Easy. You've got to keep still for a bit, the last thing we need is a coronary.
You're the Doctor, sweetheart. 'Guess the atropine worked, then.
Convinced all those that needed convincing: you're an official dead lady.
And what's Steven's status?
Still alive, but it's just a matter of time. And then will come your miraculous resurrection --
-- "oh, no, Officer, I'm very much alive -- just a joke to beat my husband at his own clever game -- What? What do you mean he's dead? It's all my fault, I may as well have killed him myself!"
"But you didn't, Ma'am. We have all these witnesses that saw..." well, whoever it ends up being that finally shoots him --
-- the James Dean wannabe with the hair trigger --
-- or might turn out to be -- very big surprise -- that Jenzen girl. The little bitch has the right stuff. She nearly put a bullet in Price right after your "demise."
So what stopped her?
It's complicated. But don't worry --
-- there's already been way too many complications for a very simple plan. You ever find out what happened to Melissa Marr?
Not yet.
So we don't even know if she's alive or dead --
-- Price killed her, there's no other explanation --
-- there's plenty: for all we know, Steven's got her spying on us right now --
-- bullshit --
-- the whole thing is falling apart!
It's not, baby. Just a matter of minutes now, before somebody pulls the trigger --
-- but nobody has yet, Donald. They just haven't been brought to that breaking point. They have to believe proof-positive that their lives are in danger.
How much more do they need than your death at his hands?
But they didn't see it happen, they still have doubts. What we need is another body, and Steven's bloody hands right next to it!
And how the hell are we going to do that?
Okay: this may sound crazy, but --
This is the best we're gonna do.
It'll have to do.
You coming, or are you waiting for Blackburn?
Blackburn's dead.
Excuse me?
He would have been back by now.
Hey: Dr. Blackburn...?
Dr. Blackburn??
Well, at least Price is still under wraps.
It's Blackburn.
Price!!
He's gotta still be down here.
You know, that crowbar, that window? Maybe we should just call it a --
-- Pritchett, shut the fuck up.
Oh, dear.
Price!
Oh, dear.
Pritchett -- !
Price, what the fuck did you do?
Please.....anyone....help me?
Melissa...?
For the love of God....please...?
Melissa, it's Sara -- is that you?
Sara...?
Keep talking, I'll find you!
Something....happened --
-- I'm coming --
-- something horrible...I don't understand --
If you can stand, if you can just raise your arm --
I woke up on the floor....there was Dr. Blackburn...I don't know what happened!
I do.
Then tell me, please -- help me...!
Don't think so. Stay the fuck back.
Please! I need your help.
Not even for a million dollars, Mr. Price.
-- no!! --
What the hell are you shooting --
Oh. Jesus.
Poor Mr. Price --
-- fuck Mr. Price! --
It's okay, everything's okay now.
He's dead...?
Don't think it's even an issue.
We're safe?
Uhhhh...
What?
Okay -- I'll admit it: I'm totally, clinically insane. But I'm still the only one who actually got a check tonight. It's yours -- if you just get me the hell out of here now.
You got yourself a deal.
Steven, you poor, absolutely clueless geek. All it would've taken was a simple divorce -- and ripping our pre-nup to little pieces.
But no matter how it ended, please know just one thing: from that first moment I set eyes on you, I've always loved... your money. You, personally -- well, frankly just the sight of you has always turned my stomach.
Is that a fact, Princess?
Well, you could have saved us all a great deal of time, not to mention money, if you'd just let me in on it years ago.
This kind of special effects crap doesn't come cheap -- and I had to pay out of pocket! No write-offs here!
How --
-- you must be kidding. You're talking to Steven Price -- every place you've gone, every person you've seen, every word you and Blackburn ever said to each other: bugged, taped, seen and heard as it happened!
Steven --
-- anything, sweetheart, you need only speak --
-- what...are...you...going...to --
-- just what you wanted everyone here to believe in the first place: I'm going to murder you, Evelyn, with the greatest of pleasure --
-- wit...nesses --
-- witnesses to what? You're already dead, Evelyn! Happy Birthday, baby --
Steven...? Are you doing that?
No...
No. OhmyGod, Pritchett was right -- The house IS haunted.
Evelyn... Get up... NOW!
Steven??
It's the Patients -- the Evil -- we've released it --
NO -- !!
He was right! Pritchett was right!
I am.
It's...the House!
What --
-- was that??
Something...that should probably be...avoided --
The opening's still too small, we'll never get through!
For chrissake give me a hand!
Pritchett: what is going on?
He must've unsealed the room!
How, he's supposed to be dead!
I think...it's time...to go.
Hail Mary, full of grace -- the house is growing!
It's not going to let us out!
 No. It's just trying to frighten us.
It's succeeding!
All the plates sealing the windows and doors -- there's got to be some way of raising them manually. They didn't just appear out of thin air -- there's got to be pulleys, cables or something, that make them go up and down.
In the attic?
If you know where it is, get there!
Me? You've gotta be kidding.
Move!
Where did it go?
Run.
What --
I said run!
EDDIE!
Sara...? Sara...?
Sara!
 Sara.
Grab my hand.
Eddie!!!
If there is a God...
No-no-no!!!! Why me, why me, you sonovabitch!
Whyyyyyyy??????
Is it too late to take back a couple of things I said?
You okay?
Yeah. And under other abnormal circumstances, I think this would be the time to seriously jump your bones.
Better put it on hold 'til we find Pritchett.
I don't do groups.
What?
Jesus!
Pritchett??
Oh, c'mon -- don't grow a conscience now, f'chrissake!
Alright, alright! I won't leave 'em here to die!
I found the way out!
Anybody still alive? I'm giving you ten seconds! Two-four-six-eight --
-- hey! --
 -- ten.
Pritchett, is that you?
Up here --
-- I think you better hurry -- there's something of a time issue here.
Move!!
Pritchett!
Over here!
Please. It's been a bad enough day --
Get out ot the way!
Eddie!!
I'm just the contractor's son! I had nothing to do with your current condition!
I think if you're coming, Mr. Pritchett, it's now or never.
The Police and Coroner arrived at the House on Haunted Hill at 7:30 a.m. Pacific Standard Time.
Watson Pritchett told the Police that they need a Sherman tank to get into the house. But when the first officer on the scene tried the front door knob, it opened without so much as a squeak.
And for all the horror that Pritchett described, the House was found to be utterly unexceptional and undisturbed -- even the dust still in place.
And not one sign of the party's hosts, Steven and Evelyn Price. The only person not surprised by this was Watson Pritchett.
They're part ot the House now. That's the way it works.
The truth will likely be never known. Unless on some strange whim, you decide to spend the evening inside the House on Haunted Hill.  Good night.
It won't stop until it's got every one --
