This, is Berk. It's twelve days North of hopeless, and a few degrees South of freezing to death. It's located solidly on the meridian of misery. The camera drifts over rolling hills to reveal a small village nestled on an outcropping of sea mounts.
My village. In a word, sturdy. And it's been here for seven generations, but every single building is new. The camera drifts closer, circling.
We have fishing, hunting, and a charming view of the sunsets. The only problems are the pests. You see, most places have mice or mosquitos. We have... Sheep graze peacefully on a hillside. Suddenly one is snatched.
...dragons.
Most people would leave. Not us. We're Vikings. We have stubbornness issues. Vikings sound the alarm. Viking men and women pour out into the streets, axes in hand. ON HICCUP darting through alleys, staying under eaves, making his way through the battle.
My name's Hiccup. Great name, I know. But it's not the worst. Parents believe a hideous name will frighten off gnomes and trolls. Like our charming Viking demeanor wouldn't do that. Dragons sweep back and forth, dodging axes and blasting the Vikings who throw them. A burly warrior gets tossed in an explosion, knocking Hiccup to the ground.
Meet the neighbors. Hoark the Haggard...
What are you doing out!?
... Burnthair the Broad...
Get inside!
... Phlegma the Fierce...
. Ack. He passes a silent ox of a viking, picking his ear.
Yep, just Ack. Enter STOICK, the biggest Viking of all. He yanks Hiccup from the path of a strafing dragon and holds aloft to the crowd.
Hiccup!?  What is he doing out again?!
Yes I do. An EXPLOSION forces Vikings to DUCK. Stoick stands firm, brushing flaming debris off of his shoulder.
 What have we got?
Gronkles. Nadders. Zipplebacks. Oh, and Hoark saw a Monstrous Nightmare.
Any Night Furies?
None so far.
Hoist the torches! Massive flaming braziers are raised on poles, lighting up the night sky... and revealing swirling dragons of all types. Below, Hiccup crosses an open plaza and ducks into an open building with a tall chimney.
Ah! Nice of you to join the party. I thought you'd been carried off. Hiccup dons a leather apron and starts to put away Gobber's scattered appendages.
Who me? Nah, come on! I'm way too muscular for their taste. They wouldn't know what to do with all this. Hiccup strikes a bodybuilder pose.
They need toothpicks, don't they? Hiccup gets to work, transferring bent and chipped weapons to the forge as Vikings crowd the counter for replacements.
The meathead with attitude and interchangeable hands is Gobber. I've been his apprentice ever since I was little. Well...littler.
We move to the lower defenses. We'll counter-attack with the catapults.
See? Old village. Lots and lots of new houses.
In response, the fire brigade charges through the plaza -- four TEENS, tugging a large wooden cask on wheels. From it, they fill buckets of water to douse the flames. One among them is a cute, energetic Viking girl. Hiccup leans out of the stall to watch her.
Oh and that's Fishlegs, Snotlout. The twins Ruffnut and Tuffnut. And...
Their job is so much cooler. Hiccup tries to join them as they pass, but he's hooked by Gobber and hoisted back inside.
Oh, you've made plenty of marks. All in the wrong places.
Please, two minutes. I'll kill a dragon. My life will get infinitely better. I might even get a date.
You can't lift a hammer. You can't swing an axe... Gobber grabs a bola .
... you can't even throw one of these. A Viking runs by and nabs it out of Gobber's hand, hurling it at a dive-bombing Gronkle. The bola binds its legs, sending it into a heavy crash.
 Okay fine, but... He rushes to the back corner of the stall and presents a bizarre, wheel barrow-like contraption.
... this will throw it for me. Hiccup OPENS the hinged lid of the device. An arm springs up, equipped with twin bows. They prematurely launch a bola, narrowly missing Gobber... and taking out a Viking at the counter.
Arggh!
See, now this right here is what I'm talking about.
Mild calibration issue.
Hiccup. If you ever want to get out there to fight dragons, you need to stop all... Gobber gestures in Hiccup's general direction.
... this.
Yes! That's it! Stop being all of you.
You, sir, are playing a dangerous game. Keeping this much, raw...Vikingness contained.
I'll take my chances. Sword. Sharpen. Now. Hiccup takes it begrudgingly and lobs it onto the grinding wheel. He stews... fantasizing...
One day I'll get out there. Because killing a dragon is everything around here.
A Nadder head is sure to get me at least noticed. The Nadders clamber onto the building, tearing the roof and walls apart. Sheep pour out and SCATTER. Elsewhere, hippo-like Gronckles pick drying racks clean of fish and fly off like loaded pelicans.
Gronckles are tough. Taking down one of those would definitely get me a girlfriend. A stealthy, snake-like dragon head peeks over a rooftop, breathing gas into a chimney.
A Zippelback? Exotic, exciting. Two heads, twice the status. A second head pokes through the door and lights it. KABLAM! The two heads fly through the explosion, their necks zipping together to reveal a single body. It flies past Stoick as he climbs to the top of a CATAPULT
They found the sheep!
Fire! Boulders are catapulted at the corralling Nadders... Just as a huge red dragon whips past, spraying the base of the catapult with sticky fire.
And then there's the Monstrous Nightmare. Only the best Vikings go after those. They have this nasty habit of setting themselves on fire. It emerges from the flames, climbing the catapult with a leering, toothy grin.
Reload! I'll take care of this. Stoick takes on the Nightmare, face to hammer. Suddenly, a LOUD BALLISTIC MOANING streaks overhead. The catapult crew ducks.
But the ultimate prize is the dragon no one has ever seen. We call it the--
Night Fury! Get down! Vikings everywhere take shelter. The moaning sound BUILDS.
KABOOM! The Catapult EXPLODES as though hit by an artillery shell... sending Stoick and the crew leaping for their lives.
This thing never steals food, never shows itself, and... The sound recedes, leaving the crippled catapult in flames.
...never misses.
Man the fort, Hiccup, they need me out there! Gobber pauses. Turns with a threatening glare.
Stay. Put. There. You know what I mean. Gobber charges into the fray, HOLLERING. ON HICCUP, a smirk crosses his face.
Hiccup, where are you going!
Come back here!
I know. Be right back!
Mind yourselves! The devils still have some juice in them.
 Oh I hit it! Yes, I hit it! Did anybody see that? Hiccup's victory is short-lived. A Monstrous Nightmare appears, slithering up over the lip of the cliff.
Except for you. ON STOICK, holding down the netted Nadders. He hears a familiar HOLLER and looks up to see... HICCUP running through the PLAZA, SCREAMING, with the NIGHTMARE fast on his heels. Alarmed, Stoick abandons the Nadders and runs off.
(to his men, re: the
DO NOT let them escape!
You're all out. He smashes the Nightmare repeatedly in the face, driving it away. It takes to the air and disappears. Winded, Stoick turns to Hiccup.
Oh, and there's one more thing you need to know...
Sorry, dad.
It's not like the last few times, Dad. I mean I really actually hit it. You guys were busy and I had a very clear shot. It went down, just off Raven Point. Let's get a search party out there, before it--
--STOP! Just....stop. He releases Hiccup. Everyone goes silent, staring expectantly.
Every time you step outside, disaster follows. Can you not see that I have bigger problems? Winter's almost here and I have an entire village to feed! Hiccup looks around. All eyes are upon him.
Between you and me, the village could do with a little less feeding, don't ya think? A few rotund Vikings stir self-consciously.
This isn't a joke, Hiccup!
I can't stop myself. I see a dragon and I have to just... kill it, you know? It's who I am, Dad.
You are many things, Hiccup. But a dragon killer is not one of them. Sting. Hiccup looks around to see many nods of agreement.
Get back to the house.
Quite the performance.
I've never seen anyone mess up that badly. That helped!
Thank you, thank you. I was trying, so... Hiccup avoids Astrid's glare and heads up toward a large house, standing prominently on the hill above the others.
I really did hit one.
Sure, Hiccup.
He never listens.
Well, it runs in the family.
And when he does, it's always with this... disappointed scowl. Like someone skimped on the meat in his sandwich.
You're thinking about this all wrong. It's not so much what you look like. It's what's inside that he can't stand. Beat.
Thank you, for summing that up. They reach the doorway.
Look, the point is, stop trying so hard to be something you're not. Hiccup SIGHS heavily.
I just want to be one of you guys. Gobber eyes him sympathetically. Hiccup turns and goes through the front door. And straight out the back door. He hurries off into the woods, determined.
Either we finish them or they'll finish us! It's the only way we'll be rid of them! If we find the nest and destroy it, the dragons will leave. They'll find another home.
Those ships never come back.
Alright. Those who stay will look after Hiccup. Hands jut into the air, volunteers galore. Enthusiastic murmurs of prep and packing fill the room.
I'm with you Stoick!
I'll pack my undies.
No, I need you to stay and train some new recruits.
Oh, perfect. And while I'm busy, Hiccup can cover the stall. Molten steel, razor sharp blades, lots of time to himself...what could possibly go wrong? Stoick sinks onto the bench beside Gobber, his brow burdened.
What am I going to do with him Gobber?
Put him in training with the others.
No, I'm serious.
So am I. Stoick turns to him, glaring.
He'd be killed before you let the first dragon out of its cage.
Oh, you don't know that.
I do know that, actually.
No, you don't.
No, actually I do.
No you don't!
Listen! You know what he's like. From the time he could crawl he's been...different. He doesn't listen.
Has the attention span of a sparrow. I take him fishing and he goes hunting for... for trolls.
When I was a boy...
My father told me to bang my head against a rock and I did it. I thought it was crazy, but I didn't question him. And you know what happened?
You got a headache.
That rock split in two. It taught me what a Viking could do, Gobber. He could crush mountains, level forests, tame seas! Even as a boy, I knew what I was, what I had to become.
You can't stop him, Stoick. You can only prepare him.
He adds another 'X' to the page, then scratches his pencil over the whole map in frustration. He snaps the book closed and pockets it.
Uggh, the gods hate me. Some people lose their knife or their mug. No, not me. I manage to lose an entire dragon. Hiccup WHACKS a low-hanging branch. It SNAPS back at him, hitting him in the face. He looks up to see a snapped tree trunk. His eyes follow it to a long trench of up-turned earth. He follows it to a downed, black dragon, its body and tail tangled in a bola. It appears dead. Hiccup approaches, beaming.
I have brought down this mighty beast! It suddenly shifts.
Whoa! Hiccup springs back, terrified. He turns his blade on it. Rattled, Hiccup creeps along the length of the weak, wounded dragon, dagger poised to strike. As he reaches the head, Hiccup finds the Night Fury staring coldly at him. Hiccup tries to look away, but he's drawn back to its unnerving, unflinching stare. With the dragon safety tangled in the ropes, Hiccup jabs with his dagger, puffing himself up with false bravado.
I'm going to kill you, Dragon. I'm gonna cut out your heart and take it to my father. I'm a Viking.
 I did this. He turns to leave. Pauses. And glances back at the dragon, chest heaving. Hiccup GRUMBLES. He checks over his shoulder to ensure that no one is watching... then hurries back to cut the ropes. The Night Fury's eye shoots open. With the dragon watching his every move, Hiccup hurriedly saws through the bola ropes. As the last rope falls free, the Night Fury suddenly POUNCES! In a blur, the dragon is upon him, pinning Hiccup down, grazing his neck. Looking like it's about to kill him. Hiccup is paralyzed. The dragon's breath ruffles his hair. Hiccup opens his eyes to find the Night Fury's wolf-like stare boring into him. The exchange is intense, profound. The dragon draws a deep breath, as though it's about to torch him, then lets out an ear-piercing scream instead. It turns and takes flight, flapping violently through the canopy of trees. It bashes against a nearby mountain side, recovers, and drops out of view some distance away. Winded, Hiccup struggles to his feet, staggers a few steps, collapses to his knees, and faints.
Hiccup.
I, uh... I have to talk to you, Dad.
I need to speak with you too, son. Hiccup and Stoick STRAIGHTEN at the same moment.
I've decided I don't want to I think it's time you learn fight dragons. to fight dragons.
You go first.
No, you go first.
Alright. You get your wish. Dragon training. You start in the morning.
--You'll need this. Stoick hands Hiccup his axe. Hiccup avoids taking it.
I don't want to fight dragons.
Come on. Yes, you do.
Rephrase. Dad I can't kill dragons.
But you will kill dragons.
No, I'm really very extra sure that I won't.
It's time Hiccup.
Can you not hear me?
This is serious son! Stoick forces the axe into Hiccup's hands. Its weight drags him down. He looks up to see Stoick under-lit with firelight.
When you carry this axe... you carry all of us with you. Which means you walk like us. You talk like us. You think like us. No more of...
specifically at Hiccup) ... this.
You just gestured to all of me.
Deal?
This conversation is feeling very one-sided.
Hiccup glances at the axe in his hands. It's a no-win argument.
Good. Train hard. I'll be back. Probably.
And I'll be here. Maybe. Stoick heads out the door, leaving Hiccup holding the axe.
Welcome to dragon training! The recruits file through the gate, and out onto the arena floor. They take it in like gladiators entering the colosseum. The walls are covered in scorched silhouettes of blasted Vikings. It's a grim yet awe-inspiring place.
No turning back.
I hope I get some serious burns.
I'm hoping for some mauling, like on my shoulder or lower back.
Yeah, it's only fun if you get a scar out of it.
Yeah, no kidding, right? Pain. Love it. The recruits turn to see Hiccup behind them. Groans all around.
Oh great. Who let him in?
Let's get started! The recruit who does best will win the honor of killing his first dragon in front of the entire village.
Hiccup already killed a Night Fury, so does that disqualify him or...? The recruits LAUGH and chatter in the background.
Can I transfer to the class with the cool Vikings? Gobber throws a supportive arm around Hiccup and ushers him along.
 Don't worry. You're small and you're weak. That'll make you less of a target. They'll see you as sick or insane and go after the more Viking-like teens instead. GOBBER stick him in line with the others and continues on toward five massive reinforced doors. Terrible ROARS and BELLOWS issue from within.
Behind these doors are just a few of the many species you will learn to fight. Fishlegs bounces and giggles with excitement, barely able to contain himself.
The Deadly Nadder.
 Speed eight. Armor sixteen.
The Hideous Zippleback.
Plus eleven stealth. Times two.
The Monstrous Nightmare.
Firepower fifteen.
The Terrible Terror.
Attack eight. Venom twelve.
 Jaw strength, eight. Gobber pulls a lever, raising the cross beam on the last of the doors.
Whoa, wait! Aren't you gonna teach us first!?
I believe in learning on the job. BAM! A GRONCKLE thunders out of its cave, charging into the ring like an irate rhino. The recruits scramble in every direction. Except for Ruffnut and Tuffnut who rush toward it, like pumped-up rodeo clowns.
Today is about survival. If you get blasted, you're dead. Quick, what's the first thing you're going to need?
A doctor?
Plus five speed?
A shield.
Shields. Go. The recruits scramble for shields, finding them scattered around the ring.
Your most important piece of equipment is your shield. If you must make a choice between a sword or a shield, take the shield. Hiccup STRUGGLES to lift his. Gobber helps him and sends him running. Ruff and Tuff stand amidst a dozen shields. But only one has a skull painted on it. They both grab it.
Get your hands off my shield!
There are like a million shields!
Take that one, it has a flower on it. Girls like flowers. Ruffnut uses the shield to BASH Tuffnut in the face. He doesn't let go.
Ooops, now this one has blood on it. The Gronckle takes aim at the distracted twins. Blam! The shield is blasted out of both of their hands. Tuff and Ruff SPIN like tops and go down.
Tuffnut, Ruffnut, you're out!
Those shields are good for another thing. Noise. Make lots of it to throw off a dragon's aim. The kids scoop up weapons and begin hammering on their shields. The Gronckle shakes its head at the clatter.
All dragons have a limited number of shots. How many does a Gronckle have?
Five!
No, six.
Correct, six. That's one for each of you!
I really don't think my parents
BAM! Fishlegs has his shield blasted away.
Fishlegs, out. Gobber spots Hiccup hiding from the Gronckle's molten slugs.
Hiccup, get in there! ON ASTRID bouncing on her heels, ready to dodge a blast. Snotlout appears, trying to hit on her.
So anyway I'm moving into my parents' basement. You should come by sometime to work out. You look like you work out-- She cartwheels out of the way, allowing a shot to shoot past her and hit Snotlout's shield. He's blasted onto his back.
Snotlout! You're done! Astrid ROLLS to a stop beside Hiccup, who stirs awkwardly, trying to look cool.
No. Just you. Astrid ROLLS away. A split-second later a lava slug knocks Hiccup's shield clear off of his arm. Hiccup is exposed.
One shot left! Hiccup panics and chases after his shield as it rolls across the ring. The sudden movement sends the Gronckle chasing after him, leaving Astrid in the clear.
 And that's six! Gobber wrestles the irate Gronckle back into his pen.
Go back to bed, ya overgrown sausage! You'll get another chance, don't you worry. Slam! Lock. Gobber turns to the recruits.
Remember... a dragon will always, (with a stern look to
always go for the kill. He hoists Hiccup to his feet and walks off. Hiccup looks overhead to see a steaming pit in the solid stone wall.
Well this was stupid. SUDDENLY, the NIGHT FURY blasts past him. Hiccup recoils, watching the massive beast struggle to climb the walls. It flaps violently, then peels away to a rough landing. The dragon is trapped. Hiccup grins, excited to see it again, and slips closer. He watches as the dragon, exhausted and frustrated, leaps into the air, beating its wings furiously. Again and again, it rolls uncontrolled and CRASHES heavily. As if remembering to snap a photo, Hiccup pulls a leather- bound book and flips past drawings of weapons to a blank page. He sketches the dragon quickly, desperate to record the image. The Fury claws at the steep rock walls, trying climb out of the cove. It SLIPS and falls hard, crushing several saplings. The Fury rolls back to his feet and slowly crawls to the water's edge. He spots fish in the shallow water and snaps at them... but comes up empty. He lowers his head, looking weakened.
Alright. Where did Astrid go wrong in the ring today? The recruits are seated at a table, eating dinner by the glow of the fire pit.
I mistimed my summersault dive. It was sloppy. It threw off my reverse tumble. Eye rolls from the group.
 No, no, you were great. That was so 'Astrid'.
She's right, you have to be tough on yourselves. CREAK. All eyes turn to Hiccup, entering the hall, sheepishly. Gobber glares at him.
 Where did Hiccup go wrong? He tries to take a seat at the table...
He showed up.
He didn't get eaten. ... but the recruits keep closing the gaps. Rolling his eyes, Hiccup sits at the vacant table next to them.
He's never where he should be.
Thank you, Astrid. Gobber stands.
You need to live and breathe this stuff. Gobber lays a giant book in the center of the table.
The dragon manual. Everything we know about every dragon we know of. A RUMBLE of thunder shakes the hall. Rain pours down outside.
No attacks tonight. Study up. Gobber EXITS into the storm, leaving the teens staring at the book.
 Wait, you mean read?
While we're still alive?
Why read words when you can just kill the stuff the words tell you stuff about?
Oh! I've read it like, seven times. There's this water dragon that sprays boiling water at your face. And there's this other one that buries itself for like a week... The teens stare as Fishlegs goes on too long.
Yeah, that sounds great. There was a chance I was going to read that...
...but now... Snotlout gets up to go.
You guys read, I'll go kill stuff. The others follow, with Fishlegs in tow.
Oh and there's this other one that has these spines that look like trees... Astrid is the last to go.
So I guess we'll share--
Read it. She pushes it toward him and leaves.
All mine then. Wow, so okay. I'll
Slam.
Tomorrow.
Dragon classifications. Strike class. Fear class. Mystery class. Hiccup turns the page.
Thunderdrum. This reclusive dragon inhabits sea caves and dark tide pools.
When startled, the Thunderdrum produces a concussive sound that can kill a man at close range. Extremely dangerous. Kill on sight. Hiccup's eyes drift to a lurid illustration of decapitated Vikings. Another page, another dragon.
Timberjack. This gigantic creature has razor sharp wings that can slice through full grown trees...extremely dangerous. Kill on sight. The illustrations seem to take on a life of their own, shifting and squirming in the candlelight.
Scauldron. Sprays scalding water at its victim. Extremely dangerous. The storm outside rages against the shuttered windows. Hiccup is startled, but presses on.
Changewing. Even newly hatched dragons can spray acid. Kill on sight. He begins flipping through the pages. A blur of dragons...
Gronckle. Zippleback. The Skrill. Bone Knapper. Whispering Death. Burns its victims. Buries its victims. Chokes its victims. Turns its victims inside-out. Extremely dangerous. Extremely dangerous. Kill on sight. Kill on sight. Kill on sight... Hiccup finally lands upon the page he's been looking for.
Night Fury. It's BLANK -- no image, save for a few, sparse details.
Speed unknown. Size unknown. The unholy offspring of lightning and death itself.
Never engage this dragon. Your only chance, hide and pray it does not find you. Hiccup pulls his sketchbook out of his vest and opens it to his drawing of Toothless. He lays it over the book's blank page and considers it. CLOSE ON the drawing of Toothless...
I can almost smell them. They're close. Steady. Stoick raises his gaze to... AN EPIC FOG BANK, towering from sky to sea like a bruised, daunting curtain, beyond which nothing is visible. The three ships drift alongside it, skirting its solid edge, looking for an opening. ON DECK the crewmen mill nervously, all too aware of what Stoick is considering.
Take us in. The helmsman steers Stoick's ship into the fog. The men draw their weapons, prepping for the worst.
Hard to port... for Helheim's gate. The first ship disappears into the whiteout, followed by the other two.
You know, I just happened to notice the book had nothing on Night Furies. Is there another book? Or a sequel? Maybe a little Night Fury pamphlet? KABLAM! A blast takes the axe head off of Hiccup's hilt, leaving a smoking hole behind him. Hiccup YELPS and RUNS.
FOCUS Hiccup! You're not even trying. CUT BACK to reveal a Deadly Nadder, loose in a maze-like arrangement of moveable walls. Gobber calls orders from above.
Today... is all about attack. The Nadder hops from wall to wall, sending the recruits scurrying.
Nadders are quick and light on their feet. Your job is to be quicker and lighter. The teens move in, stumbling over Hiccup and his unwieldy shield. The Nadder spots Fishlegs' ample rear hiding behind a wall. It whips its tail of spikes. Fishlegs SCREAMS and lifts an entire wall to shield himself from the spray.
I'm really beginning to question your teaching methods.
Look for its blind spot. Every dragon has one. Find it, hide in it, and strike.
If you don't like it, then just get your own blind spot.
How about I give you one! Ruff and Tuff SHOVE each other, till their movement and noise gives them away. The Nadder ATTACKS, SNAPPING at both of them.
Blind spot? Yes. Deaf spot? Not so much. Hiccup wanders up to Gobber, while the others dart past.
Hey, so how would one sneak up on a Night Fury?
None one's ever met one and lived to tell the tale. Now get in there.
I know, I know, but hypothetically...
Watch out babe. I'll take care of this.
Hey! Snotlout MISSES. Astrid glares at him.
They probably take the daytime off. You know, like a cat. Has anyone ever seen one napping?
Hiccup!
--Hiccup! Hiccup spins around to see the maze walls collapsing like dominos toward him. Astrid comes flying through the dust and crash-lands on top of him, laying him out in a limb-tangled mess.
Oooh! Love on the battlefield!
She could do better. The Nadder closes in, emerging through the cloud of dust.
 Just... let me... why don't you... The Nadder spins around and races back toward them like a Raptor. Astrid untangles herself and tries to pull her axe from Hiccup's shield... which is attached to his limp, gangly arm. She PLANTS her foot on his torso and YANKS the axe free, still burrowed into the shield.
Well done, Astrid. Gobber hobbles off to wrestle the Nadder back into his cave. Hiccup gets to his feet -- all eyes are upon him. He turns to find Astrid glaring at him, winded.
Is this some kind of a joke to you? Our parents' war is about to become ours. Figure out which side you're on. She grabs her axe and stomps off. Hiccup watches, stung.
A fish... being thrown into the cove. It hits the ground and slides. A moment later, Hiccup peeks through a gap in the rock, looking around cautiously. Nothing. Hiccup squeezes through and enters the cove. A BEAT, then Hiccup hears a SNORT from behind him. Hiccup turns to see the Night Fury, crouched on a rock like a stealthy panther. It descends, approaching him... ready to pounce. Hiccup swallows his fear and offers the fish. Doing so reveals the dagger at his waist. The dragon sees it and hisses. Hiccup reaches for it, eliciting a growl. He pauses, carefully lifts it by the handle, and tosses it away. The dragon calms. As it approaches the fish, Hiccup notices that it's missing teeth.
Huh. Toothless. I could've sworn you had... A set of razor sharp teeth emerge from its gums to grab the fish. Toothless snatches and gnashes it up, swallowing it.
... teeth. The teeth retract again. Toothless presses closer with an expectant look. Hiccup retreats nervously.
Uh, no. No, I don't have any more. The Fury backs Hiccup against a rock, placing himself the same position as before. The dragon closes in over him, staring blankly. A tense moment passes... then Toothless regurgitates a chunk of fish onto Hiccup's lap. They exchange stares. Hiccup realizes what Toothless wants him to do. Hiccup crouches slowly and squeamishly picks it up. The dragon waits expectantly. Hiccup gags and gnaws off a bite of the slimy fish. He forces a smile. Toothless mimics him. Amazed, Hiccup sits up and tries to touch him. Toothless HISSES and flaps off to a crash on the other side of the cove. He BLASTS the mossy ground to a red-hot temperature... and curls up on it like a giant dog. He turns to find Hiccup seated beside him. Toothless tolerates his persistent presence... until Hiccup tries to touch his damaged tail. Toothless SNAPS at him. Hiccup takes the hint and leaves.
In a flash, the dragon is gone, leaving Hiccup astounded.
...and with one twist he took my hand and swallowed it whole. And I saw the look on his face.  I was delicious. He must have passed the word, because it wasn't a month before another one of them took my leg.
Isn't it weird to think that your hand was inside a dragon. Like if your mind was still in control of it you could have killed the dragon from the inside by crushing his heart or something.
I swear I'm so angry right now. I'll avenge your beautiful hand and your beautiful foot. I'll chop off the legs of every dragon I fight, with my face. He postures to Astrid. She rolls her eyes.
 Un-unh. It's the wings and the tails you really want. If it can't fly, it can't get away. A downed dragon is a dead dragon.
Alright. I'm off to bed. You should be too. Tomorrow we get into the big boys. Slowly but surely making our way up to the Monstrous Nightmare.  But who'll win the honor of killing it? He hobbles off. The teens reflect.
 It's gonna be me.
It's not a tattoo. It's a birthmark.
Okay, I've been stuck with you since birth, and that was never there before.
Yes it was. You've just never seen me from the left side until now.
It wasn't there yesterday. Is it a birthmark or a today-mark? Hiccup gets up and walks away from the group. Astrid watches him as he leaves the bonfire.
... a creaking leather bellows. The stone forge glows with every pump. Tongs pull intricate iron pieces from the coals. They're dropped onto the anvil, twisted, lightly hammered, and dunked in a barrel. The pieces are carried to Hiccup's workbench and laid out in place on a one-to-one schematic. It's a sketch of a mechanical fin.
Hey Toothless. I brought breakfast. I hope you're hungry. Hiccup drops the basket and kicks it over. Fish spill out.
Okay, that's disgusting. Toothless approaches, settling in to devour the feast.
Uh..we've got some salmon... Toothless swallows it.
... some nice Icelandic cod... Swallows those too.
... and a whole smoked eel. Toothless nabs it, chews a few times, then spits it out. He shakes his head violently, snorts and scrubs his massive tongue on the sand. Hiccup takes note.
No, no, no! It's okay. Yeah, I don't like eel much either. Toothless focuses on the remainder. With the dragon distracted, Hiccup unwraps his prosthetic fin and opens it like a fan.
Okay. That's it. That's it, just stick with good stuff. And don't you mind me. I'll just be back...here. Minding my own business. Hiccup cautiously approaches the injured tail, but every time he gets near it, Toothless sweeps it away like a cat.
It's okay. Hiccup drops a knee on top of the tail. Toothless' head juts up, slows its chewing to a halt.
Okay...okay.. The dragon tenses, slowly spreading his wings. Hiccup straps the prosthetic fin in place. He cinches the straps.
Woah! No! No! No! Hiccup struggles to hold on to the tail. As the ground speeds away, Toothless immediately TIPS into a uncontrolled bank and dive. Hiccup sees the folded fin rattling uselessly in opposition to its flared counterpart. Flap as he may, Toothless can't correct his trajectory.
 It's working! Toothless arcs just short of the water and climbs... high into the air.
Yes! Yes, I did it. He glances back at Hiccup, busily holding the tail open while trying to hold on. They're going to crash. Whoomp! Hiccup is suddenly thrown from the tail in the intense force of a turn.
He bounces across the water's surface and takes a dive. Without Hiccup to operate the tail, Toothless does the same, plunging in a massive cannonball. Hiccup resurfaces, roughed up, but beaming. Toothless appears seconds later.
Yeah!
Today is about teamwork. Work together and you might survive. ON A DOUBLE-WIDE DOOR. Gas seeps through the cracks. It BLASTS OPEN. A cloud of smoke engulfs the ring, swirling around the paired-up teens. Astrid with Ruffnut. Snotlout with Tuffnut. Fishlegs with Hiccup. All carry buckets of water, poised to throw them.
Now, a wet dragon head can't light its fire. The Hideous Zippleback is extra tricky. One head breathes gas, the other head lights it. Your job is to know which is which.
 Razor sharp, serrated teeth that inject venom for pre-digestion. Prefers ambush attack, crushing its victims in its...
If that dragon shows either of his faces, I'm gonna-- (spotting an approaching shape, terrified) --There! Snotlout and Tuffnut HURL their water into the fog.
Hey!
It's us, idiots. Astrid and Ruffnut are soaked.
Your butts are getting bigger. We thought you were a dragon.
Wait. They FREEZE. A tail SWEEPS out of the fog, taking them down. Their buckets spill.
Oh, I'm hurt. I am very much hurt.
Chances of survival are dwindling into single digits now...
Look out! A Zippleback head emerges out of the smoke. Fishlegs hurls his water at it, completely dousing the head. It leers and opens its mouth, spewing gas into the area.
Oh. Wrong head. GAS FLOWS around their legs. Fishlegs flees in a panic.
Fishlegs! Beat. A clicking sound comes from behind them. Sparks flash in the smoke.
Now, Hiccup! The other head sweeps out of the smoke. Hiccup hurls his water with all his might. It arcs and drops short of the dragon's sparking mouth. The dragon grins, savoring the kill.
Oh, come on!
Gobber COVERS his eyes.
Hiccup! Beat. The Zippleback hesitates. SNIFFS. Then retreats. The teens get to their feet, watching transfixed. Gobber peeks through his fingers to see...
BACK! BACK! BACK! Now don't you make me tell you again! The Zippleback retreats through its door and into its cave, hissing.
Yes, that's right. Back into your cage. Hiccup slyly OPENS his vest, revealing the spotted smoked EEL from earlier. He TOSSES it inside the door, then SLAMS it shut.
Now think about what you've done. Hiccup turns to the teens and Gobber. They stare, slack-jawed
Okay! So are we done? Because I've got some things I need to... Hiccup jogs out of the ring, past the speechless group.
Yep...see you tomorrow. Astrid SNEERS. Something's going on.
Hey!
Yeah! Whoa!
Hey Hiccup, I've never seen a Gronkle to that before.
How'd you do that?
It was really cool. He squirms and invents an excuse.
I left my axe back in the ring. He turns and hurries back.
You guys go on ahead and I'll catch up with you. Astrid watches, suspicious.
Hey Hiccup!
What was that? Some kind of trick? What did you do?
Hiccup, you're totally going to come in first, there's no question.
Meet the Terrible Terror.
Ha. It's like the size of my-- Tuffnut is taken down in a blur.
Get it off! Get it off! Oh! I'm hurt, I am very much hurt! Hiccup stops the Terrible Terror with the same light-patch trick he used earlier with Toothless. The tiny dragon retreats back to it's cage. The teens approach him yet again as Astrid looks on with suspicion.
Oh, great.
Hiccup. Hiccup nods, trying to look casual. Once the coast is clear, he covertly steers Toothless into the Blacksmith's stall. Toothless PRESSES himself inside, rooting through stuff and making a racket. Astrid, walking nearby, is alerted.
Hiccup? Hiccup FREEZES. Then frantically tries to pry the ring off the saddle hook. It won't budge.
Are you in there? Too late - she's right outside. ON ASTRID walking along the outside of the Blacksmith's. Hiccup JUMPS OUT the window and CLOSES the shutters behind him. Hiccup's harness line is stretched through the window, still attached to Toothless' saddle.
Astrid. Hey! Hi Astrid. Hi Astrid. Hi Astrid.
I normally don't care what people do, but you're acting weird. Well, weirder. Toothless spots a nearby sheep and makes a move toward it. As a result, Hiccup is suddenly PULLED TIGHT against the window shutters. He STRIKES A POSE to compensate... then gets PULLED THROUGH the shutters. They snap back in Astrid's face. Astrid reopens them and finds nothing but an empty stall. In the distance, Toothless and Hiccup slip off unseen.
Where are the other ships?
You don't want to know. Stoick lumbers past Gobber, leaving him staring at the trashed ship.
Well, I trust you found the nest at least?
Not even close.
Ah. Excellent. Gobber follows Stoick up the ramp and snags his duffle bag with his hook appendage, sharing the burden.
I hope you had a little more success than me.
Well, if by success, you mean that your parenting troubles are over with, then... yes. Stoick stops. What does that mean? A group of merry villagers rush past.
Congratulations Stoick! Everyone is so relieved.
Out with the old and in with the new, right?!
No one will miss that old nuisance!
The village is throwing a party to celebrate! Stoick is stunned, overwhelmed by the insensitivity. He turns to Gobber.
He's... gone?
Yeah...most afternoons. But who can blame him? I mean the life of a celebrity is very rough. He can barely walk through the village without being swarmed by his new fans. Stoick is doubly confused.
Hiccup?
Okay there bud, we're gonna take this nice and slow. Hiccup checks a leather cheat sheet, clipped onto his harness. Inscribed upon it are several tail positions and their pedal position equivalents.
Here we go. Here we go...position three, no four. He presses the pedal, causing the tail to flare. They roll off into an arcing bank, gloriously lit by the late afternoon sun. Hiccup tucks tight against his neck, thrilled that his new harness and vest are holding. The foot controls make the tail appendage quick and responsive. He watches Toothless' every fluctuation, trying to match it with the prosthetic. Hiccup sizes up a target -- a towering arch of stone, rising from the sea.
Alright, it's go time. It's go time. They dive toward it, lining up to pass through the arch.
Come on. Come on buddy. Come on buddy! They zip through the arch. A perfect maneuver.
Yeah! Yes, it worked! The triumph is short-lived. They smack into one of several sea stacks as Hiccup tries to keep up with the turns.
Sorry. They hurtle into another rock pillar. Toothless grumbles.
My fault. Toothless swats him with his 'ear' plate.
Yeah, yeah, I'm on it. (referring to the cheat
Position four, no three. They pierce the clouds. For the first time, Hiccup can see the whole of the island below them. It shrinks with every passing second. He SWALLOWS hard and tightens his grip on the handles.
Yeah! Go baby! Yes! Oh, this is amazing! The wind in my... He spots the leather guide tearing free in the turbulence.
No!
As they slow to a stop, Hiccup goes weightless. The rings of his vest float off of the harness hooks. Hiccup suddenly finds himself detached, free-falling.
Oh gods! Oh no! Without Hiccup, the tail loses control. Hiccup and Toothless spiral downward. Toothless FIGHTS to get back under Hiccup.
 Alright, okay. You just gotta kinda angle yourself. No, no...come back down towards me. Come back down-- Hiccup extends his arms and legs, giving himself as much surface area as he can. He angles back towards Toothless as the tumbling dragon WHACKS Hiccup with his wing. After a few more misses, Hiccup finally GRABS HOLD of the harness and manages to lock in -- just in time to pull Toothless out of his dive... barely shy of the tree tops. They careen past the wooded cliff and directly into a treacherous slalom course of jutting sea stacks. Hiccup pulls the cheat sheet from his teeth and attempts to check positions. It flaps violently in the turbulence, making it impossible. With no time to think, Hiccup throws it away and steers Toothless' tail on instinct... with perfect intuition. Together, they manage a tight, hair-rasing series of split- second turns, making it to the open water, unscathed. Hiccup takes a breath and glances back at the death-defying obstacle course, now safely behind them. He beams, relieved. He sits back and throws his arms up in victory.
Toothless concurs with a happy SQUEAL and a fireball. Hiccup's glee turn to dread as they fly directly into it.
Ah, come on.
Uh..no thanks. (gesturing to his fish on
I'm good. Several Terrible Terrors land like seagulls, hissing and nipping at each other as they approach Toothless' pile of fish. One grabs the regurgitated fish head and drags it away. Another attempts to steal it from him. They face off and last fire balls at each other to settle the fight. Hiccup and Toothless watch, amused. That is until... Toothless spots one of his fish leaving the pile. A stealthy Terrible Terror is exposed as the thief. They tug on the fish, and it snaps back into Toothless' mouth. He swallows it back tauntingly. Irate, the little dragon paws at the ground and blast Toothless. He opens his mouth, the gas hiss comes, and Toothless fires a tiny flame straight into its mouth, causing the gas to backfire into the little dragon. It coughs up smoke and staggers away, looking ill. Hiccup laughs.
Not so fireproof on the inside, are you? Hiccup throws the hapless Terror his freshly cooked fish.
Here you go. The appreciative little dragon gulps down the meal and approaches Hiccup cautiously. He curls up next to him. Hiccup is amazed.
Dad! You're back! He skirts the bench, blocking Stoick's view of Toothless, the prosthetic fin, and other drawings.
Gobber's not here, so... He strikes an awkwardly casual pose, trying to cover up as much as possible.
I know. I came looking for you.
I...have?
Just how long did you think you could hide it from me?
Nothing happens on this island without me hearing about it.
Oh?
So.
Oh gods. Dad I'm so sorry. I was going to tell you. I just didn't know how to-- Stoick starts laughing. Big, booming. Hiccup stares, baffled.
You're not...upset?
What?! I was hoping for this!
Uh...you were?
And believe me, it only gets better! Just wait til you spill a Nadder's guts for the first time. Hiccup's elated expression sinks.
And mount your first Gronckle head on a spear. What a feeling! Stoick laughs and smacks Hiccup on the shoulder, sending him into the wall.
You really had me going there, son. All those years of the worst Viking Berk has ever seen! Odin, it was rough. I almost gave up on you! Hiccup gets back up, grimacing in the irony of it all.
And all the while, you were holding out on me! Thor almighty! Stoick grabs a stool and sits. His massive frame nearly fills the tiny room.
Oh, I... brought you something. He presents a horned helmet.
To keep you safe in the ring.
Your mother would've wanted you to have it.
Matching set. Keeps her close, y'know? Hiccup eyes the mismatched helmets, grimacing.
Wear it proudly. You deserve it. You've held up your end of the deal. Stoick beams with pride. Hiccup squirms. He forces a YAWN.
I should really get to bed.
(talking over each (talking over each
Yes! Good! Okay. Good talk. See you back at the house. We should do this again. I'm Great. Thanks for stopping glad I stopped by, I hope you by. And for the... the uh, like the hat. breast hat.
Well..uh..good night. Stoick leaves the room awkwardly, leaving Hiccup looking more burdened than ever.
Astrid ducks behind a barrier to find Hiccup already there. She forces her axe at his throat.
Stay out of my way! I'm winning this thing.
Please, by all means. She darts off, CLOSING FAST on the dragon. The crowd above cheers her on.
This time. This time for sure.
Aaaaaaaaaa... And as she clears the barriers, she sees that Hiccup has already laid the Gronckle out.
...aaaaaaauGGGGGHHHHHHHH! No! No! Hiccup shrugs, as unhappy with the situation as she is.
A loud CLACK ring out. From the crowd above, Gothi, the village elder, steps forward, tapping her staff. Everyone lights up excitedly.
Wait! Wait!
So, later. Gobber snags Hiccup as he attempts to leave.
Not so fast.
I'm kinda late for--
Okay quiet down. The elder has decided. Thrilled, Gobber stands behind Hiccup and Astrid. He points to Astrid as the crowd waits in silent anticipation. Gothi shakes her head 'no.' The crowd 'Oooohs.' Gobber then points to Hiccup. The elder nods an affirmative 'yes.' The crowd erupts in cheers. Astrid turns a seething, deadly glare on Hiccup.
You've done it! You've done it, Hiccup! You get to kill the dragon!
Ha, ha! That's my boy! Hiccup is hoisted onto the recruits' shoulders and carried out to the cheering spectators...
... leaving. We're leaving. Let's pack up. Looks like you and me are taking a little vacation, forever. Toothless is nowhere in sight. Hiccup sets down his basket and opens it up, his head clouded with troubles.
Oh..man... SHINK! Hiccup looks up to the sound of... ASTRID, sitting on the rock right in front of him, sharpening her axe.
I want to know what's going on. No one just gets as good as you do. Especially you. Start talking! Are you training with someone?
Uh...training? She grabs him by his odd-looking harness.
It better not involve... this.
I know this looks really bad, but you see...this is, uh... They hear a RUSTLE coming from the other side of the cove. Astrid DROPS Hiccup to the ground and sets off to investigate.
AAAAUUGGGHHH! Why would you do that?!
That's for the lies. Astrid pounces the hilt of her axe off of Hiccup's laid-out body.
And THAT'S for everything else. Hiccup's YELP is answered with A GROWL, coming from the other side of the cove. Astrid looks up to see... A NIGHT FURY. Toothless pounces toward them, snarling.
Get down! Run! Run! Astrid pulls her axe, ready to take on Toothless.
No!
No. It's okay! It's okay... Toothless pulls up short and lands hard, SPRAYING Astrid with sand.
I scared him!? Hiccup makes a be quiet motion.
Astrid, Toothless. Toothless, Astrid. Astrid backs away, eyeing Hiccup and Toothless together with pure disgust. She turns and RUNS for the village.
We're dead. Satisfied with Astrid's departure, Toothless turns away.
Oh great Odin's ghost, this is it!
Hiccup! Get me down from here!
You have to give me a chance to explain.
I'm not listening to ANYTHING you have to say!
Then I won't speak. Just let me show you. Hiccup extends a hand.
Please, Astrid. She eyes him and the dragon, then the ground far, far below. After a moment, she swats Hiccup's outstretched hand away and reluctantly climbs over the pedal, lines, and harness. She settles behind Hiccup, avoiding as much contact as possible.
Now get me down.
Toothless? Down. Gently. Toothless leers mischievously. He spreads his wings slowly. With a WHOP, they fill with the updraft. Toothless releases the tree, tucks in his legs, and HOVERS in place.
See? Nothing to be afraid of. Toothless suddenly LAUNCHES straight upward. Astrid SCREAMS. The acceleration is tremendous. Every downbeat bucks the saddle, heaving them into the sky, doubling their speed like a rocket. Astrid is thrown backward. She SCREAMS and hugs Hiccup for dear life, squeezing the breath out of him.
Toothless! What is wrong with you?! Bad dragon!  He's not usually like this. Oh no...
Toothless rockets over the ocean waves, deliberately dipping them in the froth.
Toothless, what are you doing?! We need her to like us! Toothless rockets skyward and begins tumbling head over tail.
And now the spinning. Thank you for nothing you useless reptile. Astrid clamps her hand over her eyes.
Okay! I'm sorry! I'm sorry! Just get me off of this thing. Astrid is defeated, her aggressive energy gone. Satisfied, Toothless relents. They level off and head up into the clouds. Astrid opens her eyes again, and looks out over a world she'd never dreamed of. She reaches out and touches clouds, pierces columns ablaze in golden hues, and floats over a vast, alien sky- scape. Her terror is replaced by wonder. She grins, despite herself. Toothless rises above a blanket of clouds...
Alright I admit it. This is pretty cool. It's... amazing.
So what now? Hiccup groans. It's a problem without an answer.
Hiccup, your final exam is tomorrow. You know you're going to have to kill...
Don't remind me. A strange, unearthly din approaches. Toothless' ear plates suddenly stand on end. Panicked, he abruptly dives, dipping into cloud cover.
Toothless! What's happening? What is it? Toothless BARKS at him. 'Quiet!' Suddenly, out of the dense cloud, a Monstrous Nightmare emerges.
Get down! Hiccup and Astrid duck. The Nightmare calls out. A Zippleback appears to the other side of Toothless, boxing him in.
What's going on?
I don't know.
What does that make us? The dragons BANK and dive in formation, plummeting through the thickening fog and weaving between towering, craggy sea stacks. They emerge at the base of a massive volcanic caldera, glowing with rivulets of lava. The flock of dragons fall into rank, funneling through a crack, and zipping through a winding tunnel. It gives way to a vast, steamy inner chamber, tiered with pocky shelves. Dragons of all breeds lay about, nested in hordes. The arriving dragons fly in, dropping the fish and game into a central pit, glowing red and shrouded in mist. Hiccup is amazed.
What my dad wouldn't give to find this. Toothless peels away from the procession, landing on a small shadowy shelf to keep a low-profile. Hiccup and Astrid peek around, taking in the busy hive of sorts. They watch as the food continues to be dropped into the pit.
It's satisfying to know that all of our food has been dumped down a hole.
They're not eating any of it.
The Gronckle tries to flee, but before it can, a gargantuan dragon head juts from the steamy pit and SNAPS it out of the air. Swallowing it back whole. Hiccup and Astrid recoil, terrified.
What is that? The monstrous beast SNIFFS the air, seemingly aware of them. It nears the ledge where Toothless is hiding... and ROARS. Several dragons take flight in fear.
Alright buddy, we gotta get out of here. Now! Toothless takes flight, barely evading the monster's snapping jaws. The behemoth dragon lunges for them, snatching a Zippleback out of the air instead. Toothless disappears into the winged exodus as thousands of dragons flee the caldera in fear.
 No, no, it totally makes sense. It's like a giant beehive. They're the workers... and that's their queen. It controls them. She leaps off of Toothless and runs toward the village.
Let's find your dad.
No, no! Not yet. They'll... kill Toothless.
Astrid, we have to think this through carefully. Astrid eyes him, incredulous.
Hiccup, we just discovered the dragons' nest...the thing we've been after since Vikings first sailed here. And you want to keep it a secret? To protect your pet dragon? Are you serious? Hiccup stands firm, resolute.
Yes. Astrid's taken aback.
Okay.
Just give me until tomorrow. I'll figure something out.
Okay. Astrid PUNCHES Hiccup in the arm.
That's for kidnapping me. Hiccup looks to Toothless for support. Toothless SNORTS, dismissive. Astrid grabs him. He braces for another hit. She KISSES Hiccup on the cheek.
That's for, everything else. In the awkward wake of the moment, Astrid hurries off... leaving Hiccup RUBBING his cheek, stunned. Toothless hobbles up, eyeing him.
What are you looking at?
 Well, I can show my face in public again.
... or more proud than I am. Today, my boy becomes a Viking. TODAY, HE
Be careful with that dragon.
 It's not the dragon I'm worried about.
Put an end to this. She eyes him, dubious.
I have to try.
It's time, Hiccup. Knock him dead. Hiccup puts his helmet on and enters the ring.
Show 'em how it's done, my man! Hiccup locks eyes with Stoick. Stoick nods with a smile. Hiccup returns a half-smile. Takes a deep breath. He hoists a shield onto his forearm and selects his weapon from a rack of many -- a small dagger.
I'm ready. The door bolt is raised. The crowd grows quiet... Beat. BOOM! The doors blast open with a stream of sticky fire. Followed by a Monstrous Nightmare, coated in flames. It tears out of its cave like an irate bull -- as the crowd roars and jeers. It climbs the walls and chain enclosure like a bat, hissing at the provoking crowd and blasting fire.
What is he doing? The dragon presses closer, snorting. Hiccup extends his open hand. It snarls.
I'm not one of them. GASPS and MURMURS race through the crowd. ON STOICK, as all eyes turn to him. He's welling with upset. Hiccup avoids Stoick's glare and remains focused on the Nightmare, holding his hand out. It paces around him, calming down.
Stop the fight.
No. I need you all to see this. The crowd gets restless.
They're not what we think they are. We don't have to kill them.
His ear plates shoot up. Panic flares in his eyes.
Out of my way!
Hiccup! Astrid wedges her axe under the arena gate and squeezes through.
Hiccup! She picks up a hammer and hurls it at the Monstrous Nightmare, hitting it in the head. It turns its attention to Astrid, and begins chasing her. Stoick raises the arena gate, waving her toward it.
This way! Astrid makes it through, but the Nightmare BLASTS the doorway, cutting Hiccup off. It pounces on him and prepares to finish him off. Suddenly, a terrible roar pierces the din.
Night Fury! Get down! Toothless bounds over the crowd and BLASTS a hole through the chain enclosure. He flies through it and disappears in the boiling smoke. The Vikings rush to railings... in time to see a flurry of wings cutting through the dissipating smoke. Toothless and the Nightmare tumble into the clear, locked in a toothy, vicious fight. Toothless kicks the Nightmare off and plants himself between Hiccup and it. The Nightmare snarls, circling them. Toothless lunges and ROARS... causing the Nightmare to relent and back away. To everyone's shock and horror, Hiccup gets to his feet and grabs Toothless protectively.
Night Fury!
Go! GO!
Take it alive! Stoick grabs an axe and charges into the arena. Astrid calls out to him, panicked.
Stoick no!
Dad! No! He won't hurt you! The other Vikings surround and attack Toothless. He tosses them aside like rag dolls, his eyes focused on Stoick.
No, don't! You're only making it worse! Stoick raises his hammer as he charges for Toothless. Toothless ducks and pounces on him. They tumble end over end.
Toothless! STOP! He pins Stoick and inhales. The familiar hiss of gas builds. Everyone braces...
Toothless swallows back the blast and turns to Hiccup, not understanding.
Get him! The crowd rushes him, piling on, and taking Toothless down. Astrid holds Hiccup back.
Put it with the others! His burning glare turn to Hiccup.
Being shoved into the dank, dimmed hall. SLAM! The massive doors rattle and echo. Stoick pushes past him. He paces against a backdrop of shadowy tapestries and carved pillars -- a legacy of heroes, all peering down in angered judgement.
I should have known. I should have seen the signs.
Dad.
We had a deal! Stoick pauses to say something, but stops short. He SNORTS and resumes pacing, repeating the cycle.
So everything in the ring. A trick? A lie? He stomps toward Hiccup. Stops short and points, fighting back words.
I screwed up. I should have told you before now. Take this out on me, be mad at me, but please... just don't hurt Toothless.
The dragon? That's what you're worried about? Not the people you almost killed?!
He was just protecting me! He's not dangerous.
They've killed HUNDREDS OF US!
And we've killed THOUSANDS OF THEM! They defend themselves, that's all! They raid us because they have to! If they don't bring enough food back, they'll be eaten themselves.
--Their island? He stomps back... pointing an accusing finger.
So you've been to the nest.
Did I say nest? Hiccup goes silent -- he said too much.
How did you find it?!
No... I didn't. Toothless did. Only a dragon can find the island. Stoick GLARES. A moment passes, then an idea takes form on his face. His eyes flare. Hiccup watches, realizing. Stoick stomps toward the doorway.
Oh no. No, Dad. No. Hiccup chases after him, panicked.
Dad. It's not what you think. You don't know what you're up against. It's like nothing you've ever seen. He grabs Stoick by the arm, tugging with all his might. He has no effect whatsoever.
Dad. Please. I promise you that you can't win this one. Nothing.
No. Dad. No. For once in your life,
He throws Hiccup off of him, SWATTING him to the floor. Icy stillness. Hiccup stares back, stunned.
You've thrown your lot in with them. You're not a Viking.
Lastly, Toothless is loaded aboard Stoick's ship, chained down to a palette, muzzled, and restrained with a weighty neck ring. He looks exhausted, miserable.
Set sail! We head for Helheim's Gate. He then notices HICCUP watching from his familiar cliff-side perch beyond the village. Their eyes meet, full of hurt and regret. Hiccup slowly shakes his head in warning. Stoick breaks the stare and turns to Toothless, fuming.
Lead us home, Devil.
Watching. He's powerless to stop what is happening, but won't leave.
Still standing there. The ships have cleared the horizon. CRANE UP to reveal Astrid is standing behind him. She approaches cautiously and stands beside him in silence.
It's a mess. Hiccup doesn't respond.
You must feel horrible. You've lost everything. Your father, your tribe, your best friend.
Thank you for summing that up.
Why couldn't I have killed that dragon when I found him in the woods. It would have been better for everyone.
Yep. The rest of us would have done it.
Why didn't you?
I don't know. I couldn't.
That's not an answer.
Because I want to remember what you say right now.
 Oh for the love of -- I was a coward! I was weak. I wouldn't kill a dragon.
You said 'wouldn't' that time.
First to ride one, though. Hiccup blinks. He never looked at it that way before.
So...
I bet he's really frightened now.
Probably something stupid.
Good. But you've already done that. Another beat.
Then something crazy. Astrid smiles.
That's more like it.
Sound your positions. Stay within earshot. Shouts pour in from all directions.
Here.
One length to your stern.
On your starboard flank.
Three widths to port.
Ahead, at your bow.
Haven't a clue. ON STOICK straining into the fog as the calls continue. Massive, jagged sea stacks begin to emerge, threatening to rip the ships to shreds. Gobber approaches him, speaking under his breath.
Listen... Stoick... I was overhearing some of the men just now and, well, some of them are wondering what it is we're up to here -- not me of course, I know you're always the man with the plan -- but some, not me, are wondering if there is in fact a plan at all, what it might be?
Find the nest and take it.
Ah. Of course. Send them running. The old Viking fall-back. Nice and simple.
Shhh. Stoick notices that Toothless' ear plates are at the alert, quietly reacting to inaudible sounds. Stoick crosses to the stern of the ship and grabs the tiller, moving the helmsman out of the way.
Step aside. Stoick pulls the ship into a turn, covertly following Toothless' head movements.
Bear to port. The order is called out from ship to ship. CRUNCH! The bow barely makes it past another sea stack. Stoick continues to follow Toothless' cues, undeterred.
If you're planning on getting eaten, I'd definitely go with the Gronckle. Hiccup turns to see his fellow recruits, watching him with folded arms. Tuffnut steps forward with a scowl.
You were wise to seek help from the world's most deadly weapon.
Uh...
I love this plan.
I didn't...
You're crazy.
So? What is the plan? Hiccup smiles, glowing in the support of his friends.
Ah. I was wondering where that went. A clicking buzz becomes audible, growing louder. It fills the sky, converging in one general direction. Stoick sniffs the air.
Stay low and ready your weapons. Stoick's ship suddenly JERKS to a halt as the keel burrows into shallow black sand. Stoick hops overboard, landing on a sprawling beach. The BUZZING suddenly STOPS. Above him, a craggy volcano towers into the gloom.
We're here. Behind him, several dragon-headed bows pierce the fog.
Wait! What are you...
Relax. It's okay... it's okay.
Where are you going?! Hiccup pulls a bundle of rope from a supply box.
You're going to need something to help you hold on. The teens eye each other apprehensively, and look up to reveal... ALL THE DRAGONS standing in the ring, facing the teens expectantly.
Tree trunks, being sharpened and planted into the sand at angled rows. Boulders being loaded into catapult baskets. And a war plan being scratched in the sand. STOICK looms over it, looking determined. His generals are at his sides.
When we crack this mountain open, all hell is going to break loose.
In my undies. Good thing I brought extras. Stoick TURNS to face the men.
No matter how this ends, it ends today. He walks toward the base of the volcano wall, back by several hundred warriors. He raises his arm and drops it.
A final boulder shatters the fractured wall, creating a deep, dark opening to the cavern within. Silence. Stock raises his hand, makes a gesture. A flaming bushel is launched into the dark, lighting the wall... CHOKED
Stoick pulls his hammer and rushes into the cave, brazen.
 In a chaotic flurry, the dragons suddenly rush out like bats from a cave. The take to the air, bypassing the axe-swinging Vikings and fleeing the island in a mass exodus. The battle-ready Vikings drop their weapons, confused.
Is that it? Above the island, dragons POUR from every crevice, fleeing to the sky. The sound of screeching dragons fades.
EMPTY_LINE
We've done it! Stoick doesn't celebrate. Something is not right. He HEARS something. Stoick turns to peer down the dark throat of the cavern. A deep, rumbling ROAR echoes from the cavern. The ground underfoot TREMBLES. The ships rock. Their sails fill with a blast of air. The cheering stops. Stoick's expression sinks.
This isn't over. Form your ranks! Hold together! The men SCRAMBLE to organize themselves.
Get clear!
Beard of Thor...what is that?
Get to the ships!
No! NO! The Red Death BLASTS the ships like a mile-long flamethrower. The sails are torched. Vikings dive overboard and masts come down. Gobber Joins Stoick.
Heh. Smart, that one. Stoick looks up and down the beach for an answer.
Lead the men to the far side of the island.
Right.  Everybody to the far side of the island! The Vikings scatter into the rocks like ants. Satisfied with the ships destruction, The Red Death turns its attention back to the Vikings. They seem to have vanished. It SNIFFS the air, searching for their scent. Gobber drops in beside Stoick, like two soldiers in a trench. Fire blasts over head, causing them to duck.
Gobber, go with the men.
I think I'll stay, just in case you're thinking of doing something crazy. Stoick grabs him.
Then I can double that time. Stoick grins. Friends to the bitter end. They BREAK COVER and dash into the open, SPLITTING UP. Stoick rips a sharpened post from the ground and hurls it into the monster's face.
It spots both of them. He fuels up to fire, glancing back and forth between the two men. He focuses on Stoick.
Come on! Fight me!
No, me! The Red Death remains focused on Stoick - this is it. It rears back and inhales. Gas begins to amass, when... KABLAM! A BLAST explodes against the back of The Red Death's head. It turns distracted, as... ... a Nadder punches through the flames, banking across the sky. Followed by a Monstrous Nightmare, a Zippleback, and a Gronckle. They roll in unison, revealing the recruits riding on their backs. Hiccup leads, with Astrid clinging to his waist. GOBBER AND STOICK, watch slack-jawed, in awe.
Ruff, Tuff, watch your backs! Move Fishlegs! The monster shakes off the blast and snaps in their wake. Hiccup directs his squadron out of harm's way. They climb out of reach and circle each other.
Look at us, we're on a dragon! We're on dragons, all of us!
Up, let's move it! The dragons climb past the Red Death.
Every bit the boar-headed, stubborn Viking you ever were. Stoick is speechless.
Fishlegs, break it down.
Okay. Heavily armored skull and tail made for bashing and crushing.
Steer clear of both. Small eyes, large nostrils. Relies on hearing and smell.
Okay. Lout, Legs, hang in its blind spot. Make some noise, keep it confused. Ruff, Tuff, find out if it has a shot limit. Make it mad.
That's my specialty.
Since when? Everyone knows I'm more irritating. See.
Don't worry, we got it covered!
Yeah! Hiccup and Astrid peel away. The teens bank and dive toward the monster, splitting up. The Twins race alongside the monster's head, taunting it.
Troll!
Butt Elf!
Bride of Grendel! The Red Death unloads a spray of fire at the twins. They barely dodge it. Fishlegs and Snotlout hang behind its eyes, banging away at their shields, making a racket. The Red Death opens all SIX of its eyes, spotting them.
Uh, this thing doesn't have a blind spot.
There! He steers the Nadder over the deck and hands Astrid the reins. He lines up his jump... and hops off, guarding his face from the flames. He lands on the burning deck.
Okay, hold on. Hold on. He gets to work on the chains.
It's working. The huge beast starts to sway its head dizzily.
Yeah! It's working. PAN DOWN to reveal that the noise is also confusing the Gronckle and the Monstrous Nightmare. Both dragons lose their bearings. The Red Death thrashes, knocking Snotlout off of his dragon and onto the monster's gigantic head. Snotlout bounces across the top and comes to a stop just shy of the hundred foot drop.
Agghh! Fishlegs' Gronckle goes down in a spin of confusion.
I've lost power on the Gronckle. Snotlout! Do something! He hurls Snotlout his hammer. The Gronkle crashes and skids to a stop...
I'm okay! ... then flips over, crushing Fishlegs.
I can't miss! ... and hammers the monster's eyes, playing whack-a-mole.
What's wrong buddy, got something in your eye? Astrid flies by on her Nadder, catching Snotlout in all his heroics.
Yeah! You're the Viking! Snotlout grins, finally vindicated in her eyes. In his distraction, he gets thrown and lands heavily on one of the Red Death's spines -- clinging precariously. A close call.
Whoa!
Working at the chains. He can't budge them. Fire licks at his clothes. He looks up to see...
Hiccup swims toward Toothless. They're both caught in a mess of rigging, being dragged down. The heavy palette settles into the rocky bottom like an anchor. Toothless has stopped struggling. Hiccup takes one more hopeless tug at the chains - he's almost out of air. Suddenly, a meaty hand grabs Hiccup. STOICK explodes to the surface, pulling Hiccup to the shoreline through flaming debris. He lays him down, under the shelter of an overhanging rock.
ON TOOTHLESS, drowning. Stoick appears in front of him. Toothless freezes. Stoick tears the chains off of the yoke and lets it float free. Momentary stillness. They eye each other, through the churned up bubbles. Toothless lunges out of the bars -- grabbing Stoick. BOOM! In an explosion of sea water, Toothless lands on the shore, setting Stoick down and releasing him. Hiccup is awed. The ground rumbles underfoot. The monster screeches. Its massive claws stomp around in the smoke. Stoick gives way as Toothless mounts the rock and raises his wings. He turns to Hiccup and SNORTS - Let's go.'
You got it, bud. Hiccup climbs onto Toothless and buckles himself in. Stoick grabs his arm.
Hiccup. I'm sorry...for everything.
Yeah...me too.
You don't have to go up there.
We're Vikings. It's an occupational hazard. They exchange smiles.
I'm proud to call you my son. Hiccup beams, taken aback.
Thanks dad. Stoick lets go of Hiccup's arm. Hiccup spurs Toothless on, charged with his father's belief in him. They rocket into the sky as Stoick watches.
He's up! She turns to Ruffnut and Tuffnut, who are ARGUING and THROWING PUNCHES at each other.
Get Snotlout out of there! IN MID-PUNCH, the twins look over to see Snotlout stranded on the monster's head. They eye each other.
I'm on it! I'm on it!
I'm on it first! I'm ahead of you. The twins spot Snotlout on the giant dragon and steer their Zippleback in his direction.
Hey! Let me drive! The twins peel off, ARGUING as they race each other to the monster. Snotlout sees the Zippleback diving toward him and DASHES down the Red Death's head. He runs up the end of its horn... As the twins sweep past, both missing him... but perfectly snatching him where the necks merge. Ruff and Tuff eye each other, surprised and impressed.
I can't believe that worked. The Red Death spots Astrid and INHALES, preparing to blast. She and her Nadder get caught in the suction, pulled toward the monster's gaping mouth.
Night Fury! Get down!
Did you get her? Toothless grunts.
Do you think that did it? Suddenly, the enraged behemoth RISES into frame... flapping its wings furiously. A daunting sight.
Well, he can fly. Hiccup and Toothless DIVE into the tangled sea stacks - they weave through the rock like rabbits through a briar. The Red Death SNAPS at them, but cannot reach them. Hiccup and Toothless PULL AHEAD. The Red Death SMASHES through the canopy of rock and pulls in behind Toothless. He BURSTS THROUGH fifty-foot formations like they were saplings.
Woohoo! Yeah! A moment later the Red Death SMASHES the sea stacks to dust in hot pursuit. The Vikings mood is quenched.
Okay Toothless, time to disappear. Toothless PULLS into a steep climb, heading toward the clouds.
Come on bud! The Red Death follows, closing in fast.
 Here it comes! BLAST! They narrowly dodge a column of flame and smoke. They reach the low-hanging clouds and pierce them. The monster follows, immediately losing them in the hampered visibility. It roars irritably. From out of nowhere, Toothless DIVES at the huge dragon, BLASTING and PUNCTURING a hole in its wing. Toothless and Hiccup are gone again before the dragon can get a shot at them.
Watch out! The random blast CLIPS Toothless' tail. It's heavily damaged.
Okay, time's up. Let's see if this works. He pulls Toothless into a turn. They fly directly into the Red Death's face, taunting it.
Come on! Is that the best you can do!? Toothless utters an insult too, and they jackknife into a steep dive. The Red Death pursues. Toothless PUMPS his wings, racing faster than he's ever gone before. Hiccup and Toothless stay just ahead of the Red Death -- no longer trying to evade it. Hiccup glances back to check the tail - it's disintegrating.
Stay with me buddy. We're good. Just a little bit longer. The Red Death closes the gap. Hiccup tucks in and holds Toothless steady -- allowing the monster to set its sights on them. It narrows its eyes.
Hold, Toothless. The Red Death OPENS his mouth. The familiar gas HISS emanates from his throat -- ignition is coming.
Hiccup HITS the PEDALS HARD as Toothless extends one wing. They PIVOT in place, hurtling directly into the Red Death's mouth. Toothless FIRES point blank down the monster's throat. Its amassing gas is ignited, BACKFIRING into the monster, erupting in a chain of blasts throughout its body. Hiccup and Toothless BURST from the clouds, the Red Death hot on their tail, exploding from within. It glances forward and sees the ground rushing up. It throws open its wings, attempting to put on the brakes, but the punctured, damaged wings can't stop its momentum. As the Red Death chokes on the expanding fireball, he sees Toothless suddenly pull out of the dive, streaking up, past its head.
Hiccup and Toothless weave through the monster's massive back plates, wings, and flailing legs -- a high-speed recall of the FREE FALL slalom run. The expanding fireball races toward them, about to swallow them. They manage to clear the obstacles. Hiccup glances back. They're outrunning the fireball. He looks forward just in time to see the monster's massive club tail careening toward them. He tries to shift their direction. The last shreds of Toothless' tail tear away. Hiccup's pedals go DEAD.
No. No. Hiccup and Toothless can't maneuver - they're dead in the air. The giant club tail CLIPS Toothless, TEARING Hiccup from the harness and sending him tumbling against the backdrop of the fast-approaching fireball. Toothless STRUGGLES with all his might to reach the unconscious Hiccup. But the fireball swallows them both.
A whiteout of ash. And through it comes...
Hiccup? Hiccup!? Stoick appears, searching desperately. Everything is scorched. Even the ground is smoking from the terrible heat.
Hiccup!? Son!? Through the ash, Stoick the motionless silhouette of Toothless.
Oh son...I did this... Astrid pushes through the crowd, her eyes welling up. Followed by Gobber. They flank Stoick as he kneels, slumped over. Behind them, a ring of Vikings form, keeping a respectful distance. As the dust and smoke clear, a ring of wild dragons can also be seen, gathering just behind and between the Vikings. Toothless stirs and groggily rolls his head toward Stoick. Their eyes meet.
I'm so sorry... Toothless unfolds his wings, revealing Hiccup, unconscious, clutched safely against his chest. Stoick's eyes widen.
Hiccup. He scoops Hiccup into his arms. Listens to his heart. Bursts into relieved laughter.
He's alive!
Well, you know... most of him. Stoick glances back at him. Gobber shrugs, redirecting his eyes toward...
HICCUP, asleep, his head on a pillow. Healing scars on his face show that maybe a week or two have passed. Toothless hovers over him, WHINING and GRUMBLING impatiently. Hiccup stirs. Opens his eyes.
Okay, okay! I'm happy to see you too, bud. Now just-- Toothless steps on his groin, causing Hiccup to sit BOLT UPRIGHT with a YELP. He looks around, confounded. He's in his bed, moved beside the fire pit on the main floor of his house.
I'm in my house. (re: Toothless, leaning over him, excited) You're in my house. Toothless TEARS around the room, knocking things over, far too big for the space.
Uh...does my dad know you're in here?! Toothless pauses at the foot of the bed, tongue wagging. He eyes the rafters... and LEAPS UP onto them, brimming with 'happy dog' energy.
Okay...okay... ... but STUMBLES with the first step. Toothless catches Hiccup's fall with his head... and slowly lifts him up, stabilizing him.
Thanks bud. Hiccup leans on him like a crutch. They take a few steps together. Their missing parts form a poetic silhouette as they make their way toward the door. Hiccup pries it open , revealing a MONSTROUS NIGHTMARE flapping outside the door. Hiccup YELPS and slams the door closed. He turns to Toothless, alarmed.
Toothless? Stay here, bud. Hiccup pauses... and cracks the door open again. He peeks outside, his eyes widening. He allows to door to swing open, revealing... ... the Monstrous Nightmare, carrying Snotlout on its back.
Come on guys, get ready! Hold on tight! Here we go! A class of newbie dragon riders follow him through frame on a variety of dragons, pulling back the curtain on an amazing vista in which:
I knew it. I'm dead. Stoick laughs.
No, but you gave it your best shot. He puts his arm around Hiccup, steadying him. He gestures to the transformed village.
So? What do you think? Hiccup just shrugs, amazed. Below, the plaza, villagers take notice.
Hey look! It's Hiccup! They rush over, surrounding him with a hero's welcome.
Hiccup, how you doin' mate?
It's great to see you up and about.
... this.
Well. Most of you. Gobber pushes through the crowd, beaming proudly.
 That bit's my handiwork. With a little Hiccup flare thrown in. Think it'll do?
(bittersweet, coming to
I might make a few tweaks. Astrid appears and jabs Hiccup in the arm. Hiccup recoils with a grumble.
That's for scaring me.
... could get used to it. Gobber presents Hiccup with a rebuilt saddle, rigging, and tail.
Welcome home. Suddenly, Toothless pounces on the crowd, crushing several unsuspecting Vikings under his weight.
Night Fury, get down! Toothless eyes the new tail excitedly, tongue wagging. Amidst the groans and grumbles, Hiccup and Astrid exchange a sheepish grin.
Hiccup's prosthetic foot, snapping into the modified stirrup.
This... is Berk.
Any food that grows here is tough and tasteless. The people that grow here are even more so. Hiccup and Astrid race their dragons through the village -- under eaves, over rooftops, down cliff-sides, and between ship masts. It's a high energy, romantic dance of sorts.
The only upsides are the pets. While other places have...ponies or parrots, we have... Their fellow recruits join them as they take to the open sky, rocketing far above the village. The Northern sky swirls with blazing, multicolored dragons. Hiccup and Toothless break from the pack, spinning into the blinding sun.
