A YOUNG BOY sits watching the film, his clothes and the room around him telling us this is England in the 1960s. He is staring raptly at the actress.
All my life I've been a Looky- Loo.
We are CLOSE on an extremely handsome YOUNG MAN staring past us with a dazzling smile.
My name's Sidney Young. I'm a journalist...a hack.  Yeah, that...that isn't me. We PAN right and down to our hero - SIDNEY YOUNG - thirties, an odd-ball with a knack for getting people to dislike him.
This is me at the Golden Globe Awards in L.A. this year. That's my Armani tuxedo. That's a Rolex Sea-Dweller 4000 watch I'm wearing. Still in SLOW-MOTION we TRACK BACK and see that Sidney is at a table with several other people, all staring raptly past us to the stage which is out of shot.
Those people all around me - they're all famous. They're my friends. Beside him sits a beautiful young woman - SOPHIE MAES .
That's the actress Sophie Maes. This morning she told me she would let me have sex with her if she won the Best Actress Award. Still in SLOW MOTION, Sophie suddenly covers her face with her hands and begins to stand.
She just won the Best Actress Award. Sophie walks out of the shot. Still sporting the fixed smile, Sidney claps in SLO-MO along with everyone else in the room. We TRACK away from Sidney past tables of CELEBRITIES towards an EXIT.
My life didn't used to be like this. We PUSH THROUGH the EXIT DOORS and find ourselves impossibly looking at...
Looky-Loos. That's what They call you when you stand out in the rain all night just to catch a glimpse of Them going by. REVERSE - CELEBRITIES walk down the red carpet, pausing to wave at the fans.
I used to pretend it was different for me because I was getting paid by a magazine or newspaper, whatever. But that's, you know...I just loved watching Them. I'd stand outside looking in through the window and think what it would be like to somehow get inside. But there was only one way to get past the thin red line that separates the celebrities from the civilians. You had to be famous.
Babe?
Babe Three. Yeah. She looks doubtfully at the pig.
Babe was a cute little piglet.
Harry Potter used to be a cute little piglet too. What do you want? Tempus Fugits...
He hasn't got any ID.
How many pigs are coming tonight? Look, I was told to bring him, hand him over to the producer, Bob Milton, inside. You want me to leave him here with you, that's fine...
No, you can't leave him with me. I've got...Hold on, I'll... She looks around, helplessly. She begins to unhook the red rope. Sidney tries to hide his excitement.
If you're positive that you're supposed to... An OLDER PR WOMAN stalks over.
What about me?
The Looky-Loos dream is that one day they will somehow get to mingle with the stars. But the Industry can't allow any mingling. Stars have to be kept away from civilians, have to be quarantined, so they don't become normal. Like us. They pass a ravishing HOLLYWOOD ACTRESS walking the other way. She looks curiously at the pig as she passes. Sidney stares after her, longingly.
But after the awards come the parties - the Miramax Party, the London Records Party and, best of all - the Sharps Magazine Party, so exclusive that there are no pass-alongs, no plus-ones, no press. We find Sidney checking in at the desk.
(to Receptionist,
How much? I only want to stay for one night!
We see the PIG'S SNOUT poking out of the zip of the holdall.
And that is when I strike. He picks up a tray of canaps from the bed and looks down to where the Pig watches him from the floor.
I want you in bed by ten. And no porn. He tosses the pig one of the canaps.
...as Sidney emerges from the washrooms, now dressed only in the white shirt and black trousers. He scoops up a passing glass of champagne, checks his moustache and surveys the courtyard - a room full of glamour: tanned skin, diamonds, beautiful dresses, beautiful suits, champagne. He stands surveying the crowd of A-list celebrities in front of him, dazed.
Hello? Sir? The squealing stops.
Is everything alright? The door opens and the Assistant Manager walks in and stands staring around him in horror. Behind him the pig emerges from the bathroom and slips out of the open door, across the corridor and straight into the open lift...
No, when I'm in L.A. I stay at the Sunset Marquis, when I'm here I always stay at the Sanderson. It's, you know, I don't feel at home these days unless I'm in a hotel.
So what do you do?
Oh, I'm a writer. Movie writer.
Oh great.
Yeah. Got one in pre-production now. You know it's really weird running into you like this because just the other day I was telling the producer I thought you'd be perfect for the lead. She starts to laugh.
No, seriously, you would, because, you know, you have this mixture of intelligence and beauty and fragility that we're looking for and, uh...
Tits of Fury. She laughs.
No. Have you?
Me? No, hardly anything. A penis reduction as a child, that's pretty much... She laughs again, snorting into her drink. Sidney can't believe this - she likes him!
Oh god, I'm drunk.
Are you?
I'm so drunk. I haven't eaten and...
You feel okay? Because my room's just upstairs if you want to lie down or, or loosen any, you know, morals or...
Clark. Clark Baxter. He takes a sip of his champagne and his moustache comes loose and hangs limply from his face.
How'd you do? The Actress stares at him in surprise but Sidney doesn't notice - he is staring past her to where there is something of a COMMOTION amongst the guests. The PR Woman is hurrying across the room, hissing into her ear-piece. Somebody screams. Then to Sidney's horror a group of guests scatter in panic and the cause of the commotion is revealed: the Pig charges into view, heading straight for him.
Oh, shit! Sidney turns and legs it.
Look, we don't hate celebrities at the Post-Modern Review, okay? We just don't think they should be taking themselves so seriously. For us a celebrity is a text to be deconstructed. Apart from Costner obviously. Sidney edges past him to where a LARGE WOMAN and a histrionic THIN MAN are in the middle of a argument, encouraged by the other members of staff.
...an internationally respected academic and...
Prick.
...author of a very well received book on the history of culture and a...
Fuckwit.
 Couldn't one of you answer the phone? As the argument continues behind him he reaches the phone with a bored YOUNG MAN sitting by it.
Will you answer that? What do I pay you for?
You don't pay me.
Just get the phone! The Young Man answers the phone.
Post-Modern Review.
Sidney, if she doesn't apologise I'm quitting.
 George can't leave. You'll have to apologise.
Why can't George leave?
He owns the fax machine. Sidney notices the Young Man is staring at him with a scared expression.
What?
It's Sharps Magazine. Sidney stops smiling.
We're finished.
We're not finished.
They sue, we're finished.
Shut up.  Will you be quiet! They ignore him and continue bickering. Sidney picks up the phone.
Sidney Young.
(over phone, gravel
This is Clayton Harding. I'm the editor of Sharps Magazine. Sidney is visibly thrown.
Ah, Lord Vader.
I saw you at my party, just before you ruined it with your little pig stunt.
Sure. On his desk we see a few copies the Post-Modern Review - glimpses of stars on the covers - Catherine Zeta-Jones, Orlando Bloom... Clayton's hand sifts one copy from the others and holds it up - the cover depicts CLAYTON HIMSELF - patrician handsome, stern, photo-shopped so that he appears to be NAKED. A headline reads "Clayton Harding - The Editor's New Clothes? Clayton's shoulder's heave with a snort of repressed laughter.
 I especially liked the part where Clint Eastwood beat the shit outa ya.
We're not scared of you, Harding. You want to sue, go ahead and sue. It's like Jimmy Stewart said, (a poor Stewart impersonation:)"You sit up there and you spin your little webs and you think the whole world revolves around you and your money. Well, it doesn't, Mr... Mr...
Potter.
Destroy me and a hundred more will spring up in my place - men who care nothing for success, men who cannot be bought, men whose only loyalty is to...
This magazine you are working for? It is good?
It's Sharps Magazine. You know Sharps? It's sort of society, fashion, crime, finance, Hollywood celebrities...
(eyeing her chest
Well, I think it depends on the breasts but...
Yeah, they don't make entertainers like that any more... Mrs Kowalski cuffs the back of his head. Sidney is somewhat surprised by this familiarity, having only just met the lady. She opens an apartment door.
They brought your things yesterday.
That's a...that's just a joke. They're just little...congas.
When do you start work?
Tomorrow morning.
Well, you need to be fresh, make a good impression. Go to bed.
Just what I'm going to do...
 Hi, my name's Clark. Clark Baxter. The Woman looks at him without expression. Sidney sips his drink, grimaces.
That's a water sir.
Well that's...that's not right, is it? That's not...put a dash of beer in that. A young woman has been sitting on the other side of Sidney. This is ALISON OLSEN  smart, attractive, dressed in an elegant but no-nonsense suit. She is writing in a NOTEBOOK. She looks up and notices Sidney.
I'm sorry, my boyfriend's sitting there. Sidney gets up and examines the stool.
Is he? He's fucking small isn't he? He smiles at the Sexy Woman, hoping to get a laugh. Alison examines Sidney coolly, points to the drink on the bar in front of Sidney.
That's his White Russian. He'll be here in a second.
Nope. Sidney sits down and turns back to the Sexy Woman.
I'm a journalist. Work for a little periodical you might have heard of called Sharps Magazine? Sidney produces a card and waves it vaguely.
I'm the Cultural Editor. Alison takes the card from his hand before he can put it away again.
 This is a library card. (Reading it) From Glow-cester...
 That's...not that one... I've got it somewhere...I just... The Sexy Woman gets up and walks away. Sidney watches her go bitterly.
Just doing my bit for the gene pool. He produces the PHOTOGRAPH of him being held in a headlock by Clint Eastwood.
Who's that there with Clint Eastwood?
Morgan Freeman?
No, in the headlock.
You had this laminated?
Oh just give it... He snatches the photograph back, catching Alison's glass in the process. Her drink SPILLS over her notebook - soaking the page she has been writing.
Shit!
It's okay. It's okay. I've got it. He tries to blot the page with a napkin, smearing the ink.
Just...just leave it! She examines the book, furious.
Sorry. He tries to think of something to say.
It's pronounced Gloucester by the way.
No.
The curry?
(inscribing a circle in
Hello? Hi, honey. Oh. no, no, it's...don't worry about it. I'll see you then. She hangs up, avoiding Sidney's gaze, embarrassed and annoyed.
Boyfriend not coming?
Do you think I could have his drink? Alison gives him a cold smile, controlling her temper. She spots a heavily made-up WOMAN walking past.
Bobbie?
Hey!
You want a seat? I'm just leaving.
Thanks. The Woman takes Alison's place at the bar.
 Hello. He slides the PHOTOGRAPH over to her.
Guess who that is with Clint Eastwood. Alison gives a small smile and leaves.
I'm gonna powder my nose. Why don't you put on something a little more romantic? She staggers off down the hall. Sidney, giddy with excitement, searches through some LPs and puts one on his old turntable. It's Ace of Spades by Motorhead. He staggers around, playing air-guitar for a moment.
Mrs Lebowski...
Kowalski. You know what time it is? The music blaring, your door open...
 Was it? Fuck. I mean, shit. Sorry. I just...met an old friend and brought them back... The Woman staggers back into the room, her back to us. She is NAKED. She is also surprisingly muscular.
...for a little... He notices the woman. His gaze drops to below the waist.
...penis. Mrs Kowalski turns and takes in the view. Nobody moves.
You can do this! You can do this! He hums the fanfare from the Rocky theme.
Quick coffee Bob and then you've got to go.
This is my city. He stops at a gleaming chrome entrance and stares up at the Heywood Building towering above him.
This is my building.
These are my models.
And this... Sidney walks through into...
...is my Boss.
What the fuck are you wearing? The song grinds to an abrupt halt. Sidney loses a quantity of swagger. He examines his T-shirt.
You like it? I brought you one. He takes a T-shirt from his satchel and hands it to Harding.
Thanks. Casually he flings the shirt out of the open window behind him.
Next time you come here dressed like that, you follow the shirt. You understand? Sidney nods dumbly.
Sit down. How was the flight?
That was a mistake. And don't call me Clay.
Oh. Well, if it's any consolation I got downgraded anyway.
Yeah, you've...you've actually been a big influence on me and I really think together we can inject a bit of that Snipe spirit into this magazine. Now I've got a few ideas that I'd like to...
There are seven rooms in all. You're in the first, I'm in the seventh, and doncha forget it Sidney has been listening with a frown of concentration.
Which brings us to the subject of your sense of humour. I had a look through your "magazine" here.
What'd you think? Clayton swivels in his chair and stares thoughtfully out over the Manhattan skyline.
Oh, I thought it was...kinda snarky. And bitter. And... witless.
I'm going to try you out in the I Spy Section.
(glancing at Sidney's
Well, Sidney. We've only just met but already I perceive I am in the presence of a rare comic sensibility.
Thanks.
I know your Hi-jinx gave you a certain notoriety back in Olde England but things are going to be a bit different here. Harding wants me to be your Rabbi, show you the ropes. Are you aware of what we do at I Spy?
You photograph famous people when they're drunk?
So...when we go out to clubs and things...would that, would that be on expenses or...?
This isn't a vacation. It's a vocation.
When we do go out you're going to have to wear something more suitable.
Okay. What do you mean by suitable? Maddox gestures at Sidney's body.
Something that covers all of this up. He starts to check messages on his desk. Sidney, trying to seem at ease, stares at a black and white PHOTOGRAPH on the wall.
Is that Mussolini?
 No, Sidney, that's Richard Heywood. The owner of this magazine.
Oh. Looks a little like, uh...(pointing to the child in the photograph, smiling) Who's this funny looking kid? Is that his son? Maddox stares at him.
Miss Olsen here takes care of the gallery openings, book launches and other intellectual fare. Can you find our new rookie something to do?
I hear the Cultural Editor's job is up for grabs?
Listen, seeing as how I'm going to be sitting just over there, don't you think we should try and put last night behind us?
No. Get off my desk.
I'm not sure what I'm supposed to be doing.  Are you going to help me out?
Okay. Which way did you come in? Sidney stares at her. Alison takes some contact sheets from her desk and shoves them at him.
Chris Blick exhibition opening. Caption it. Now get off my desk. One of the magazines gorgeous Fashionistas - INGRID - walks past.
Hi, Ingrid. Ingrid stares at Sidney's outfit, thrown.
 You going to introduce me?
This is Clark Baxter. (Noticing Ingrid's gaze) He's English.
 Ohh...right.
Actually it's Sidney. Sidney Young. Clark Baxter is my alias.
Why do you have an alias?
He uses it when he's trying to pick up transsexuals.
Hello, is that the Parsons Gallery?
Yes, it is. This is Celia Parsons speaking.
This is Sidney Young from Sharps Magazine? We're running some photographs from your opening of the Chris Blick exhibition, and I just need to caption them. I was wondering if you could help me identify some of the people?
Thanks. So...Chris Blick. Man or woman?
What?
Is Chris Blick a man or woman?
Yes, I am.
I...I don't really know.
Okay. Is he an old man?
(staring at a
Okay, I've got two old men here - so is he the fat one?
Right. She hangs up. Beat. Sidney looks around, hoping no-one was listening. He re-dials.
Parsons gallery.
Is he the one with the wonky eye?
It's fashion sensitive. If you're not wearing Prada it'll take your arm clean off. Anna stares at this strange man with the burger, baffled.
But I am wearing Prada. The lift stops and she gets out. Alison gets in, sees Sidney and winces. She takes out a book and pretends to read. The lift begins to rise again. Through it's glass doors we see the different floors passing, different publications - each a hive of sober, hard work. Sidney stares at them.
What did you expect?
I don't know. The Algonquin circle. Dorothy Parker. Martinis. Quips. Look at them. Not one of them is drunk.
It's called being a professional. You should try it some time.
There's something you should understand. I'm not really one of you.
By "you" do you mean "human?"
I mean the glossy posse. Bunch of Zombies, writing about "Pets of the Stars" but acting like they're working for the UN. I'm here to shake things up a bit. Where are you from?
Not that it's any of your business, but I'm from Port Huron, Michigan.
Right. Small town girl. (Hannibal Lector impersonation) I bet you could only dream of getting out. Getting anywhere - yes, Clarice? Getting all the way - to the N...Y...C. (Dropping the impersonation) Take my advice, don't go taking this celebrity fluff seriously. For a moment Alison is speechless with anger.
You...you...arrogant... The lift stops and a TALL WOMAN enters. She is expensively dressed, wears Chanel dark glasses, an expression of granite and an air of superhuman froideur. Alison exchanges the slightest of nods with her and stares tensely ahead. Only Sidney, busy chewing, is oblivious to the plunge in temperature. For a moment there is only the soft whir of the lift. Then Sidney begins to choke on some burger. He wheezes for a moment, gagging. The Woman stiffens slightly but shows no other sign of having noticed the revolting noises coming from behind her. Alison closes her eyes. Sidney gives a violent cough and a chunk of chewed burger and coleslaw flies out of his mouth and lands on the back of the oblivious Woman's Prada jacket. Sidney notices and raises a tentative hand to brush the offending item away. Before he can move Alison silently takes his wrist in a vice-like grip.
That was her? The Mussolini baby? He stops.
I could go back and tell her I'm...
No! Listen to me - you do NOT approach Elizabeth Maddox, you do NOT talk to her! Don't even make eye-contact with her? Do you understand?
Am I supposed to be afraid?
Yes.
I don't know the meaning of the word fear.
I'm sure there are many words you don't know the meaning of! She walks on, shaking her head in disbelief.
When I think of all the people who would kill to be where you are. And you lumber in here, spitting food, haven't got the brains God gave a mollusc...why did Clayton hire you?
What?
When Clayton left college he started this little magazine called Snipe. Fantastic. Took aim at every self-important celebrity in town. Completely fearless. It was like my magazine but twenty years earlier.
That's why he's hired me. I am the young Clayton Harding. He looks at me and sees his glory days.
Yeah, but don't worry. I think I might still be in time to save him.
 You've reached Sidney Young. I'm sorry but my answering machine is out of order, so the voice you are hearing is actually me. The machine BEEPS. Sidney smirks at his joke and is reaching for the phone when we hear the caller - an older man, an upper-class English accent.
 Sidney? Are you there? Sidney stops in his tracks, something complicated and fearful crossing his face.
Sidney? Are you there? Sidney tiptoes back out of the room.
If you're there Sidney, answer the phone. We hear the opening of Fly Me To The Moon by Julie London
This place is amazing. It's wall to wall totty.
Wall to wall what?
Totty. Babes. Sexually attractive women.
Do you mind?
What? Maddox joins them. A man passes, nods respectfully at Maddox.
Look at that. All night people have been treating us like we're royalty. In London, the journalist's motto is "Everybody hates us and we don't care."
Well, now you're one of the High Priests of what's Hot and what's Not. So what were you two talking about?
Sidney was just marvelling at the abundance of "Totty" here.
I shouldn't be here. I get thrown out of places like this.
This? This is a McDonald's. I hate disease parties. (Off Sidney's puzzled look) Fund- raisers. Someone's CELL PHONE RINGS. All of the guests automatically check their cells. An OLDER ATTRACTIVE WOMAN walks over - she's a little drunk.
Lawrence Maddox? Oh my goodness... Long time. Maddox examines her coolly.
Rachel! Lawrence barely bothers to conceal the fact he doesn't remember her.
Rachel. How are you?
Well, I'm just wonderful. Wonderful. How are you? Lawrence smiles and looks around him without answering. Rachel tries again.
Funny I should run into you. I've just done this great little film called Five Boroughs and it's you know, low-budget, first-time director but very, uh, moving and... Hey, maybe you could do a little...?
Seriously, I've heard about that film. I think she's going to make a come back. We should get there first, do a profile or something before everyone else... Maddox isn't listening. Instead he greets a fat, angry- looking VERY YOUNG MAN. This is VINCENT LEPAK, wearing his customary SHADES.
I think this is the worst fundraiser I've been to in my whole life.
It's a rat fuck, isn't it? Sidney walks away.
Excuse me? Aren't you Rachel Petkoff? Rachel turns to look at him.
This is sort of embarrassing but... He holds out a napkin.
Could I have your autograph? Rachel, suspecting she is the target of ridicule, looks around to see if there's an audience.
I'm a big fan.
Absolutely. I must have seen everything you've been in. Those episodes of The Love Boat and the Bionic Woman? The Song Birds, In The Night...I've even seen your first ever TV appearance. The Twilight Zone - House of Mirrors. Right?
My all time favorite? A Day Too Long.  You were really great in that. Rachel stares at him. She hides her emotion with a bright smile.
Sidney Young. She takes the napkin and pen, her face glowing.
You look around and it's all shit. No-one is making movies that are fucking worthwhile.
I'd have to disagree with you, Vincent. Vincent looks at him, displeased.
You're making movies that are worthwhile. Vincent accepts this with a curt nod.
This is what I'm saying. You have to inspire yourself. I am my role- model. I want to be me... He stares angrily around, handing his empty glass to his waiting assistant who immediately replaces it with a full one from a passing tray. Sidney watches him with dislike.
Excuse me?
What's the greatest film ever made?  Go on. Have a guess.
Have a guess.
Incorrect. Con Air.
Uhuh, Con Air. It's got everything. Malkovich for your acting chops, Nicky Cage for action, Buscemi for comedy, John Cusack for the Gays. It's a smorgasbord. The group study him, trying to work out if this is irony or idiocy. Maddox is staring daggers at him. An extremely thin, fashionably dressed woman smiles at Sidney.
I don't think we've been introduced?
Mister Young, this is Eleanor Johnson, Queen of New York. Eleanor this is Sidney Young. He's from England and he's our very own Idiot Savant. Without the Savant.
Well, it's always nice to have fresh blood at these things. (To Maddox) Which reminds me, I'm here with Sophie Maes, I want you to meet her. New film, The Suffragette coming out, the buzz is A-mazing. The release is tied in with the roll-out of the Reebok campaign, and now Louis Vuitton's on the line. This train is leaving the station Lawrence.
I don't really like that word, Sidney.
What should I call you?
You can call me Eleanor. She stares past him, across the pool.
There she is. They turn to see a young woman standing across the pool from them. This is SOPHIE MAES - a natural beauty, statuesque, no make-up, hair simply pulled back. Sophie tries to walk around the pool to join them but finds she can't work her way through the crowd. She turns to her right but finds her way similarly blocked. She hesitates for a moment and then with a shrug climbs down into the pool, the water up to her chest, and begins to walk through the floating flowers towards them. Sidney stares at her, TRANSFIXED. Alison notices this with some contempt. Gradually everyone notices Sophie and stops to look. Having reached the other side, Sophie ascends the pool steps, laughing, her dress clinging to her: Venus rising from the waves. The Photographers appear, snapping merrily away.
 Where's the car? What's it doing at the back? Forget what I said. I want the car at the front. Now. Sidney finds himself walking alongside Sophie and Maddox, trying not to stare at Sophie's breasts.
...I just think it's terrible the way we're still exploiting animals. That's why, you know, I won't wear fur or leather, I won't wear make-up, I'm vegetarian.
I'm with you...
I won't eat anything with, you know, eyebrows. He snickers nervously.
Or if it can chuckle. I won't eat animals that can chuckle.
I'm sorry, I can't understand your accent?
I don't know. Have you?
No.
Because I would certainly vote for you for best supporting dress! Huh, huh, huh....
I haven't been nominated for anything.
No, I'm just...I'm saying you look... They have reached the front entrance of the hotel. Eleanor steps between them.
Aren't you cold?
I'm from Canada, land of ice and snow. They get into the car. Sidney tries to follow them.
Budge up.
Where are you going?
I'm coming to the club.
Sorry, you're not on the list. A small CHIHUAHUA - CUBA - on Sophie's lap snarls at Sidney.
See? Even Cuba says so. Maddox closes the door and the car glides away, Sophie kissing the dog on the nose. The Paparazzi hurry back to the entrance as another celebrity emerges, leaving Alison and Sidney staring after the car.
Yes he is. I started producing sperm when I was thirteen, so you know, technically...
For your information he wasn't pawing her! He was just doing his job! In case you haven't noticed Sharps has to have a star on the cover every month. And most of those stars are clients of Eleanor's. So do not piss her off.
She's a flak. Hacks don't take orders from flaks. And I don't think you can call that "doing his job." The man had no blood left in his upper body...
I wasn't being ironic...
...would you mind not involving me, especially in the presence of Vincent Lepak who happens to be very important.
Yeah, I could tell by the way he was allowed to stay up past his bed time. The car disappears into the distance. They watch it go.
Do you think she'd go out with me?
Who?
Sophie Maes. You think she'll go out with me?
No. Girls like Sophie don't date journalists. As far as she's concerned, you're the help.
What do you know? A lot of these starlets are lonely. They spend their time looking for a man. Alison starts to walk away.
This is New York, Sidney. Women only date men who are successful...
I'm going to be successful.
 ...and tall.
Have you seen this? She's everywhere. An ASSISTANT walks over with a MUFFIN BASKET for Maddox.
From Sophie Maes.
 "Thanks for a great night." What a sweet kid. Oh, Sidney, about last night - word of advice. Don't talk to the celebrities, okay? Sophie said you made her feel uncomfortable. He walks off with a slight smirk. Sidney glowers after him.
SIDNEY'S P.O.V - Elizabeth Maddox is walking down the corridor towards us, face set. Sidney keeps on walking, staring to one side of Elizabeth. As they draw level, the heel of one of Elizabeth's shoes snaps off and she lurches sideways, colliding with the wall before sprawling onto the floor in front of Sidney. Sidney hesitates. He notices Alison watching with baited breath from the other end of the corridor. For a moment nobody moves then Sidney steps over Elizabeth's prone form without a word and keeps on walking. Alison gives a sigh of relief, nods in approval and walks on.
...so Brad's people finally got back to me and they've agreed. We've got the whole afternoon, before the shoot. People clap. Harding nods approvingly.
Good work Lawrence. Okay, well, if that's it for... He starts to get up.
So, I was thinking, Clay... Clayton, pauses, frowning. Sidney turns to the room, cocksure.
Paris Hilton. I do a profile on her as if she's this complete recluse, this hermit... I try and track her down and, you know, "Who is the elusive Paris Hilton and why is she so publicity shy?" He laughs for a moment. No one joins in.
That's first room stuff, Sidney. And call me Clay one more time and see what happens. Harding stalks out of the room. Blushing, Sidney stares after him, nodding vaguely. As he gathers his notebook he becomes aware of the smirks on the faces of Maddox and the others as they leave.
No, I'd love these but I'm so fat I couldn't...
Get out of here!
You look totally rexy.
Alison.
Tell Vicky she looks rexy.
Rexy?
Anorexic.
Oh god, that's so sweet.
 No, thanks. She looks up as Sidney sits heavily beside her, stares at her with puppy-dog eyes. Alison tries to ignore him for a moment.
I don't mean to be rude Sidney but...what the fuck do you want?
Listen, you know how things work around here. How am I going to get something in the magazine? Alison stares at him.
I thought all this "fluff" was beneath you?
It is but...things have changed.
What's changed?
Look, I know people think I'm a bit of an idiot and maybe I haven't started off too well here, but I want...I want... He seems so awkward that Alison begins to soften a little.
...I want to have sex with Sophie Maes.  Before Maddox does. Alison's expression turns to disgust.
You're loathsome, you know that?
Like ring-worm. She gets up and stalks out. Sidney glances through the glass partition and sees MADDOX walking past.
Okay. Celebrity Trash Cans. The contents of celebrity trash cans are revealed and readers have gotta guess who the trash belongs to... Five bottles of Jack Daniels, a court order, and a copy of Mein Kampf? Mel Gibson!
 First Room, Sidney. First room.
 Guess who that is with Clint Eastwood?
Morgan Freeman?
No, not...why's everyone say...? There! In the head-lock!
It's a Shag Tree. It illustrates all of the sexual pairings of Hollywood's top stars and how they interconnect... From under the door slides a piece of paper on which is written First Room. We hear a TOILET FLUSH.
If I give you an interview will ya leave me the fuck alone? Sidney smiles. The song ends.
Nathan Lane. Nice to meet you.
Great to meet you Nathan. I'm a big fan. I love that rat thing you played in The Lion King.
(absently, checking his
Uhuh... Now, I've been doing some research and I think you're probably quite a private man. Am I right?
Well...
Which is fine, but today, I think it would be great to get behind the mask.
Absolutely. Of course. So, first question - are you Jewish? Nathan stares at Sidney.
I don't see what the relevance of that is.
Okay. Next question. The rat thing - that's gotta be Disney's first gay animal, right? So, I was wondering - are you a homosexual? Beat. Nathan looks like he might hit Sidney.
What did I say to you?
What...?
What did I say to you?
I just...
What did I say to you?
Don't upset anyone.
Don't upset anyone.
I was just trying to...probe.
You wanna probe become a proctologist, okay? You can't ask musical comedy stars whether they're Jewish or gay. From now on just assume they're all Jewish and all gay, okay?
I'd like to apply for an American Express card please?  Hon. Sidney Young.  As in Honourable. H-O-N. It's a British title. Across the desk Alison watches him with contempt.
The Queen? Yeah, I know the Queen. Just fill in the form will you? Sidney suddenly notices Sophie Maes and Eleanor Johnson walking towards them. Sophie looks more STYLED than before. She is holding her Chihuahua, Cuba, which is dressed in a tiny coat. Sidney DISAPPEARS UNDER THE DESK. We hear a RIP as he yanks the tape off his face.
 Oh, fuck...!
So how's it feel to be a star?
No, don't! It's so embarrassing! That picture's everywhere now. And I had no idea the dress was so see-through! And people are talking like it was some kind of stunt.
Hello! Didn't, didn't know you were coming in...?
Lawrence is taking us to lunch at Cipriani.
Lawrence? Could I leave Cuba here? He doesn't like Italian food.
Of course you can. He can stay in my office. Sidney? Fetch Cuba a bowl of water, will you? Sidney stares at him.
 Of course.
That is a lovely ring. Where is that from?
Uhuh.
He has a new movie coming out soon and Lawrence is over- stretched as it is. How would you like to write a story on him? Alison, at the photocopier nearby, listens. Sidney smiles, filled with hope.
A story? Absolutely. That would...I'd love to...
Okay.  What do you mean?
Well, I'd need to know how we're going to present Vincent, check the story, so on.
Their star-light? Eleanor's face hardens.
Sidney slides into the room.
Hello Cuba. I'm Uncle Sidney, come to see how you are. You wanna play? You wanna little play? He takes a RUBBER BALL out of his pocket and holds it up for the dog to see.
Fetch! He tosses the ball in the air. Cuba runs after it and trots back, stumpy tail wagging, the ball in its teeth.
That's it! That's it!
We're gonna be best pals aren't we? You're going to like me more than that prick Maddox, aren't you? Fetch! He tosses the ball again which promptly bounces off the wall straight out of the half open window.
No! Cuba is already running towards the window... Sidney's yell slows and distorts as we move to SLOW
Sidney springs forward, leaping onto the desk and then in one bound onto a FILING CABINET by the window, sending it rocking slightly forward. Cuba, bounding forward, jumps into the air... Sidney just manages to slam the window SHUT as...
Sidney heaves a sigh of relief. Then a METAL SCULPTURE on the tilted filing cabinet slides forward and drops with a TERMINAL THUD ON THE DOG BELOW. Silence. Sidney stares down to the floor.
 C'mon...C'mon... Alison walks past, sees him and does a double-take.
 Shit, shit, shit...
That's my bag.
I'm just...just borrowing it. I'll bring it straight back.
What are you talking about? Give it back. She reaches out to take the bag. Sidney holds on desperately.
Stop it! Give me the... She tugs violently, pulling the bag open. A small PAW lolls out. Alison freezes staring at it. Silence.
Oh my God.
I was just trying to make friends. Please don't tell her. Please don't tell her.
What are you doing? You can't...! He jerks the window open and empties Cuba out of it, slamming it shut just as Sophie, Eleanor and Lawrence walk in.
Alison, have you seen Cuba?
Uh...no. No idea. Sidney stares at her in amazement. Behind him Cuba's body appears at the window, rising into view on a WINDOW WASHING PLATFORM. A Window Washer, stands at the other end of the cradle, bobbing his head to the music in his headphones. Alison stares at the dog in horror while the others talk, oblivious.
Don't worry, he couldn't have got very far.
Did they find that rat yet?
No...Not yet. I think maybe he got out the building? Sidney hovers.
Congratulations on the Man of the Year thing. How was the lunch?
I don't know. Thousand dollars a plate, all I could taste was ass. I'm kissing their ass, they're kissing my ass.  I get this dream sometimes. Someone's set fire to the building - Heywoods - Sharps magazine - the whole thing, it's going up in flames. My analyst thinks it's an anxiety dream. I never tell him how happy I am watching the fucker burn. Sidney isn't sure what to say. Finally...
What do you want? Sidney takes a deep breath.
I want to do a story on Vincent Lepak. Not a puff-piece. Something funny, but with teeth. The kind of thing Snipe would have done. Everyone's treating him like he's a genius and he's an idiot. Clayton notices the CLOSET-DOOR beside him and opens it. He stares at the rows of blue shirts hanging in there. He takes an armful out and examines them.
Look at these things. How'd I get a closet full of blue fucking shirts?
Um...I don't know.
I don't know either. This is an office for Christ's sake! Why've I even got a fucking closet? He drops the shirts.
Do it.
 Do it?
Fuck it. Yeah. Do it. He's an annoying little prick. Go take him down. This is your shot.
Thanks Clayton!
You're my little Hit Man.
Go do it!
You could call me The Jackal!
Out.
Mister Young?
Yes?
I'm Sophie Maes' assistant. I'm afraid Sophie isn't here right now.
 Look I know she's in. I'm not a stalker. I just know she's upset about losing her dog and...
Okay. Did you send the flowers?
Oh.
Gold-fish. In a bowl. Did she get them?
Yes, but...they were dead.
Yeah. It was kinda shocking. Were they dead when you sent them? Sidney stares at her.
What? No, they were... Who sends people dead fish?
My God, you're like a serial killer.
This wasn't me.  I...I laid him to rest. Cuba I mean. I took him over to...
Okay.  Well, I just...I just wanted to say...about not telling them...I really appreciated it. It was good of you and, and...you know...not many people would, uh... He stops, tongue-tied. Alison takes pity on him.
It's okay.
You don't need my help to screw up here, Sidney. I mean, the only things you make are mistakes and stains. The BARMAN arrives, stares at the bowl of fish disapprovingly.
Can I help you?
 Just a couple of straws please. Stony-faced, the Barman walks off. Despite herself, Alison smiles. Sidney smiles back. He notices Alison's NOTEBOOK on the bar.
Can I ask you something? How come you've always got the notebook? Is it a diary or something? Am I in it?
It's...it's a novel I'm working on, alright?
Wow.
Go ahead. I know. I'm a walking clich.
No - a novel, that's...that's pretty impressive. You're writing it by hand?
Yeah, it...I don't know. It keeps it separate from the magazine work. Makes it seem special. He stares at her.
You're full of surprises, Sister. Suddenly he notices the White Russian beside them.
So...you waiting for your boyfriend?
What's he do, the mystery guy? Is he a hack too?
Really? What's he look like?
Just most poets you see aren't really good-looking, are they? Spend their time stuck in a room, end up looking like Golem. Is he...?
He's very handsome, thank you.
You know what I don't understand? You're desperate to get a story in the magazine - so why wouldn't you play ball with Eleanor, write the puff-piece?
I resent being bribed to gush sycophantically about a star, okay? I choose to gush sycophantically. Alison stares at Sidney trying to figure him out.
It's okay anyway. Clayton's given me a story. I'm on my way.
Which makes it...a half page left. Lawrence? Any ideas?
Yeah. Rachel Petkoff, fabulous sixties actress, one of my all time favourites. Just made a wonderful movie called Five Boroughs. I think she's poised for a come-back and I think we should get there first, do a profile. Sidney stares at him in disbelief. He looks over to Alison who avoids his gaze.
Sounds good. Let's do it. Okay that's it people.
Uh...Clayton?
What?
Did you read my story on Vincent Lepak? Clayton frowns down at some papers, feigning distraction.
What? Oh, yeah. That's...that's not going to work. Sidney can't believe it. Clayton gets up to leave.
Oh, and for those who haven't heard, Alison is going to be running the I Spy section from now on as Lawrence here has just gone up in the world. He is replacing Greg Roberts as Deputy Editor. Lawrence smiles modestly as the room applauds. Sidney looks like he is going to implode.
Rachel Petkoff? One of your favourite actresses? You'd never fucking heard of her! That was my idea! Lawrence stops and turns back.
So it was. You have any more good ideas don't forget to bring them to my new office. He is about to walk on but remembers something.
By the way, there've been complaints about you skulking around the water-cooler, trying to talk to women. It's inappropriate behaviour.
When I do it it's called flirting. When you do it it's called sexual harassment. Consider this an official warning. I won't tolerate sexist behaviour. He walks off. Sidney glowers after him.
I know that wasn't Greg's way of working but Greg isn't deputy editor any more. I am, and I'm making changes. There is a knock at the door and Sidney walks in with an attractive BLONDE WOMAN in a long coat and dark glasses.
What?
Uh, Lawrence? This lady's been looking for you?
 Can I help you?
Are you Lawrence Maddox? The new deputy editor?
Yes?
Well, I've just come to say congratulations on your promotion.
I'm your present. The Woman produces a Beat-Box from behind her back and switches it on. She drops her coat to reveal underwear and stockings underneath. Maddox stares in frozen horror as the STRIPPER dances over to him, removing her bra.
Hey Mrs Harding. Two Impeccably-Dressed Little Girls follow Mrs Harding into the room.
Oh my God! So adorable!
 And this is the Fashion Department. [To Ingrid] Where's Mr Maddox now?
Oh he's down the hall. Room 217.
 Uh, Lawrence? This is...this is sort of inappropriate isn't it?
Oh God, this is...this is awful...
Hello, Mrs Harding. Girls...
I didn't know it was Take Our Daughters To Work Day. I didn't even know there was a Take Our daughters To Work Day.
Shut up.  You know, when I told my wife I'd hired another Brit, she was excited. She still thinks you're all like something from Pride and Prejudice. But you Sidney ...you're like a British person born in New Jersey. Why did I hire you? Sidney stares at his feet. Suddenly...
I don't know - why did you hire me?
I had an attack of nostalgia. It's passed. Like gas.
What was wrong with my story?
What?
Why did you kill my Vincent Lepak story?
It wasn't good enough. Plain and simple.
It wasn't good enough?
We don't do hatchet jobs here.
It isn't a hatchet job!
This opening quotation - "It's only too easy to catch people's attention by doing something worse than anyone else has dared do it before..." Who are you thinking of here? Vincent or yourself?
He's a talentless, pretentious little twat who thinks cinema began with Tarantino and someone needs to say it. And you told me to do something with teeth! You said...
I'm trying to run a fucking magazine here! Sidney stares at him, angry and disappointed.
"A free press is the last defence against the Tyranny of Stupidity."
It isn't mine. It's yours. First issue of Snipe.
Won't you have to run a decision like that past Eleanor first? For a second Clayton looks like he might throw his ashtray at Sidney. Then he controls himself.
 Looks like I was too late to save you after all. He walks out.
You hired a stripper?
I didn't "hire" him. Bob did it for a favour.
I thought you wanted to be a success here?
I do! It's just... It wasn't me. It was Clark. Alison laughs.
The famous alter-ego? How long's he been hanging around?
Since I was a kid. Anytime something got broken, or the bathroom got accidentally set on fire - it wasn't me. It was Clark.  The weird thing is, he kind of took over.
How old were you?
I don't know, twenty, twenty one... Alison laughs.
Well, let me tell you, if only you could get rid of that Clark, you could be a real winner.
I thought Clayton was different. I really did.  The only thing I'm good at is pissing people off, and he won't let me do it.  "My glory walks hand in hand with my doom." (Off her look) Troy
Troy who?
Troy, the movie. He stares around him at the other guests.
Everybody hates me here. You're the only one who'll talk to me.
You cornered me.
 No, I mean it. You're the person who's been most, you know... uh...abusive to me. Alison laughs again. They smile at each other.
You want another drink?
 Alright. I'll have a beer. Sidney walks off.
Sophie, my darling. Looking ravishing as always. Whilst the two are engaged in kissing cheeks, Sidney takes a credit card from his wallet and drops it surreptitiously by Sophie's feet.
You write poems?
In another life. The BARMAN is handing out drinks.
And a White Russian?
Right here. Sidney stares at the drink, feeling like he's just been punched in the stomach. Maddox notices him.
Well, well, if it isn't Sidalee. Maddox notices the card at Sophie's feet.
 What's this? "Hon Young".
That's...that's mine.
But your name's not "Hon".
 It's short for "Honourable".
 As in, "the Honourable Sidney Young"?
Can I please...?
(holding it out of
So how come it says "Hon Young"? They made you sound like some Korean medical student. The people gathered around laugh.
They screwed it up. Please.
Sidney baby, you don't wanna go faking a British title to impress Sophie. It's the Fourth of July. : We're celebrating the fact that we threw a bunch of British aristocrats out. Sidney smiles tightly. Suddenly...
Why don't you shut up, Maddox? Beat. The others look to Maddox to see how he will react. Maddox smiles dangerously.
Careful Sidney. Remember - if it wasn't for us you'd all be speaking German.
You're Canadian. If it wasn't for us you'd be speaking French. Sophie giggles. Maddox doesn't like this but before he can answer Sidney walks off.
 Choke. Choke. He puts his fingers to his temples as if to channel telekinetic powers.
Choke...choke... Sidney realizes Harding's wife is passing with her two daughters.
Hello, Mrs Harding. Lovely party. With a look of alarm she shepherds the girls away. A tall older man dressed in white with a long white beard appears next to Sidney.
How are you? Sidney nods gloomily.
Has anyone ever told you before that you have an unusually dark aura?
Yup.
You should walk with bare feet as much as possible, ground all that negative energy. Sidney examines him.
So...you're a wizard or...?
I'm a spiritual healer.
You can make a living doing that?
Oh God no. I'm a dentist. They stare at the party for a moment.
You want to do some coke?
Um...no, thanks.
Hey! Hello again? Rachel smiles at him distantly, clearly not remembering him.
Hello. (Turning back to the others) No, Lawrence is a wonderful writer. I really felt like he got to the heart of me. Sidney snorts. Rachel turns back to him, faintly irritated.
I'm sorry, have we...?
Sidney. Sidney Young. We met at... Another GUEST walks past Sidney and kisses Rachel.
I saw Five Boroughs the other day and wept!
In-ger-lernd! Puzzled the guests turn to where a drunk Sidney is standing on the balustrade of the porch of the house.
In-ger-lernd! In-ger-lerrrrrrnd! He spots HUGH GRANT amongst the crowd, watching him, puzzled.
You! Grant! Come on! In-ger- lerrrr... With that he slips from the balustrade and crashes into the shrubbery below.
You okay?
What?
I said are you okay?
I'm fine. Yup. Fine.  You?
Yup.  No, actually. I hate my life so, you know, I'm gonna get drunk. Sidney nods, vaguely. They stand in awkward silence for a moment. Then...
Right...See you... He walks off. Beat. He walks back into frame suddenly.
How the...You...having an affair with Maddox! I mean...Maddox for Christ's sake! The Man With Hidden Shallows! Jesus! I mean, I used to think you were...I was starting to...I mean, at first I thought you were a pain but then I started to think...but I mean...Maddox? How can you live with yourself? Alison stares at him, pale, blinking back tears.
Well, that's no...that's, you know... You broke up with him? Alison walks off. Beat. She walks back.
Which leg did you hurt?
She walks off again.
He notices the reflection of the starry sky in the water and reaching out gloomily to hold one of the stars. The reflection dissolves into ripples. When the water settles Sophie Maes reflection stares back at him.
You know what? There's something very damaged about you. Sidney stares at her, not sure what to say.
Huh... Sophie lies down beside the pool, plays with a strand of her hair.
Like an animal that's been hit by a car or something. Like a deer or...like a pig maybe? When they walk funny and the other animals keep away from them. Little limpy pig. I'm drawn to sick animals. That's why I picked Cuba - because he had like psychological problems? (Her eyes well with tears) Poor little Cuba. Where is he now?
Jesus, I'm wasted. Are you wasted? I'm wasted. Sidney watches her.
Congratulations on becoming incredibly famous by the way.
Thanks.
What's what like?
Everything. She rolls her head to look at him solemnly.
Weird. It's happening so fast and...it's like it's got nothing to do with me. It's like I'm not even really here. She laughs softly.
Am I here?
You're here. She turns back to look at the stars.
I'm so hungry.
Would you...would you like me to get you some food?
Are you crazy? There might still be a photographer around. They lie in silence for a moment.
Probably just as well I haven't got any. Coke always makes me so horny. Sidney opens his mouth but cannot speak.
 Wizard! Wizard Dentist Man! Need Wizard Dentist Man!
I will never, never, never forget this. Thank you! He starts to hurry away.
What are you doing?
None of your business...
You can't drive. You need to go and sleep this off somewhere.
Firstly, you are a stupid asshole and I hate you and Secondly... Secondly... She muses on what she was going to say next. Sidney looks over his shoulder, imagining Sophie waiting for him.
Secondly...
Yeah, okay. Listen, you try driving in this state you're gonna kill yourself.
Who'd care if I did? Beat. Suddenly she bursts into tears. Surprised, Sidney stands, uncertain what to do.
D - I don't know what D was. Then I took the internship at Sharps and I met Maddox and he was...he was so...and before I know it I'm writing, you know, Ten Tips for the fucking Metrosexual and pretending this is what I wanted but this ISN'T what I wanted! And that's...that's why I hated you...
I didn't know you hated me.
You're not a Ghoul. You're a Zombie. Alison leans her head against the window.
But he isn't the person you think he is, okay? Maddox. That's just a front. He thinks he's let himself down by giving up the poetry and he's unhappy. And the marriage is a sham, I mean... I just...I couldn't end it. I just couldn't and...
 Look, I don't need to hear this.
Need a cigarette. Where are my fucking cigarettes?
You don't smoke.
Oh yeah. She looks at her reflection in the window.
Do you think I have low self- esteem? Am I afraid of a real relationship? Do I think an affair is all I deserve? I mean, okay, he's handsome and successful and he's great in bed...
When I told him I couldn't see him any more...I don't know if he cared. I love him and, and I don't know if he cares! Sidney watches, moved.
Alright. Alright. Don't, you know, get snot everywhere...
Oh G-God...
What? Alison lurches down out of sight and is sick on Sidney's shorts.
Alison? What's your address? Alison? Alison snores loudly. Sidney sighs.
Did...Did we wake you?
 Love this song... The three stare after her. Sidney coughs.
She, uh, she isn't actually a prostitute.
Sooo, Sidney's dad. Good to meet you. I'm Alison. I'm from Port Huron.  And you must be Sidney's mom?
Oh, okay. My dad married again too, so that's cool. You wanna dance?
Okay. Where are my cigarettes? (feeling in the pocket of the jacket) What is that? She produces the wrap of coke that the elderly man had given Sidney.
Oh, hey, is that....? She stops herself. Everyone stares at the wrap.
I think it is probably cocaine. Sidney closes his eyes.
It wasn't actually for me. I was going to give it to this young actress... He realises this isn't helping and trails off.
He's doing just great at the magazine. Alison ruffles Sidney's hair clumsily.
First we all thought he was kinda creepy because he was always hanging around the water-cooler, hitting on women...
Really Alison, I think...
But I think that was pretty much an act. So, Mister Sidney, whatcha doing here?
A book! Hey - I'm writing a book. What's yours about? Don't tell me - it's a thriller, right?
Oh my God...Richard? R.C. Young? You're R.C Young? You...you didn't say... Sidney avoids her eye.
What would Sidney know about philosophy?
Well, he does have a Masters in the subject. Alison stares at Sidney. She breaks into a snorting laugh again.
You're shitting me! Sidney? He...he likes Con Air! She stops laughing, hit by a sudden wave of nausea.
I...I don't feel very well. Mrs Kowalski stands up.
Come on. It is time you went to bed.  You can sleep on the couch.
Okay. Better go before I find out something else I don't know about Sidney. Mrs Kowalski turns to Richard.
It was a pleasure to meet you Lord Young. Alison stares at Sidney who smiles weakly.
You should have said you were coming.
I've been pretty busy.
Which reminds me, I was talking to a publisher friend of mine the other day. He mentioned that they were planning a series of introductory texts on philosophers. I wondered if you would be interested?
Of course, of course. I picked up a copy of your magazine at the airport. Sidney stiffens a little.
Most enjoyable.  I particularly liked the young Hollywood actress who said she'd like to start her theatre career "somewhere small, like London or England."
It was just a joke Sidney...
Actually it's not. Because you're saying that what I do for a living is worthless and...
I don't think it's worthless. I just think, in your heart, you know you could do more with your life than...
You know who I interviewed recently? Nathan Lane.
I don't know who...
I KNOW you don't know who that is! You don't know who anyone is! You thought Brad Pitt was a cave in Yorkshire! But most people do know who they are, okay? And most people wouldn't think that a journalist who gets to mix with stars like that was a, a disappointment!
No. I'm fine. I know I can make it.
Einstein said "Try not to become a man of success but rather to become a man of value." Sidney doesn't answer.
The young lady next door... Alison? She wouldn't have anything to do with your desire to stay would she?
What? No. We're just friends.
She doesn't feel that way about me. New York women don't date losers.
Sidney stands staring at her for a moment and then tip-toes back out of the room.
I don't remember very much but I'm so, so sorry. I'll get myself together and get going...
Why? No, you're all right. It's...it's nice to have the company.
Mrs Kowalski? Don't worry about it. The last woman she caught me with had a penis, so you know...you're a big step up.
Thanks.
Who's that?
No way!
Yeah, I don't take after her...
Was she a model?
Actress.
Wow. Movies?
Some. British, small parts...
Is she...
No, she died when I was young. Without thinking he fiddles with the ring on his finger.
Must have been pretty cool having your mom in the movies.
Yeah, I suppose. I used to see her on the TV every now and then when I was growing up. Sort of weird. He carries the plates over to her.
Here we go! English fry-up. Perfect hangover cure. Sidney puts a plate of bacon, eggs and sausages in front of her. Alison stares at it, going green. Suddenly she darts from the room.
Sidney stares at it, hesitates and then, unable to resist, opens it up and starts to read. Alison walks into the room. Sidney looks up guiltily.
Sorry, I was just...uh...(He can't think of an excuse) ...rooting through your private possessions... Alison sits on the couch, feeling too ill to be annoyed.
I like the opening.
You do?
I do. Can I read the rest of it? Believe it or not, I'm a pretty good editor.
I don't know. I don't even know if I'm going to bother finishing it.
"Keep true to the dreams of thy youth." Alison examines him through narrowed eyes.
Is that from Troy again?
Schiller. She puts her things back in her bag.
I'll jump in the shower and then I really will get out of your hair. Sidney watches, not wanting her to go.
Oh, I forgot...I got you a present.
I was just walking past this music shop on the corner and I saw it. I thought it might cheer you up. Alison is deeply touched.
That's...I don't know what to say.  I haven't got a turntable.
Oh.  Well, you can always come here to listen to it. Sidney takes the record and puts it on the turntable in the corner of the room. He selects the finale music - it's funny and sad, glamorous and romantic... They listen to it for a moment. Sidney starts to dance a little. He cha-cha's over to her and holds out his hand.
Are you kidding? I could throw up on you again.
C'mon... Alison reluctantly gets up. They dance ironically. Alison laughs a little. Gradually they get more into it, enjoying the music - a man in shorts and a woman in pyjamas, cha-cha-chaing, a summer breeze wafting in the through the open windows behind him...
Ingrid is holding up a dress.
Hey, Alice? Versace. You like?
I'm good, thanks.
Honey, everyone needs to change their look every now and then. Especially if they have a new man in their life.
Well, that English guy is always hanging around you these days, right? Sidney freezes, listening.
Thank God. Can you imagine? He's such a creep.
These are gorgeous, but I'm just too fat.
Oh don't be crazy! Alice? Is Anna fat?
Oh, and for your information Sidney Young has got more going for him than most of the men in this town. She gets up to leave, the others gawping after her.
Hey Alison, I was wondering if you wanted to...(Beat. Starting again) Hello there. Listen I was wondering if you wanted to see a movie or...a meal...or...(Beat, starting again.) Alison. You wanna go on a date? We see he is staring at his reflection in a mirror. He slips in a pair of PLASTIC FANGS and smiles toothily.
I like your costume Vincent.
I'm not wearing a costume.
Oh. They walk on.
Haven't we met somewhere before?
That's why I don't go there any more. They smile, but Alison seems a little nervous.
I've been looking for you actually. There's, uh, there's something I need to...
(Mumbling through his
Me first. Listen I was wondering if you want to go to the movies or maybe for a, uh....
Sorry. I was just saying... Maddox appears and gives Alison a glass of champagne. He kisses her.
Back in a minute. He walks off again. Sidney stares dumbly after him.
Yeah, so...maybe he does care after all, right?
Yup. They stand in an awkward silence, watching the party.
Hello Sidney. Someone said you'd come as a Count but I thought I'd misheard. Sidney doesn't answer, turns to leave.
So Alison told you we were getting together right?
Yeah. Should have done it long ago but, you know me - just not very good at expressing my emotions. Right?
You must be happy for her, what with you being friends... Sidney blushes.
Wait! Eleanor wait! The window glides down.
Yes?
Let me do the profile on Vincent.
You get full copy approval. It'll be like you've written it! The window stops. Eleanor stares at him, considering. Sidney looks past her to Vincent.
 You don't look like you're begging. Beat. Sidney kneels down on the side-walk beside the limousine. The rain pours down on him. The limousine drives away. Sidney stares dumbly up at something across the street.
On the building across the street is an ENORMOUS ANIMATED BILLBOARD L'OREAL ADVERTISEMENT - SOPHIE MAES, in a gold ball-gown and make-up, hair coiffured in classic forties Hollywood style. As we watch she BLOWS US A KISS. Underneath is the slogan - I'm Here...
Lawrence Maddox is no longer working for Sharps. Seems Elizabeth got sick of him screwing around and kicked him out.
She kicked him out?
Don't worry about Maddox. He's already lined up something with Gotham Magazine. I'm gonna need someone to hold the fort at I Spy. Strictly on a temporary basis, you understand? One more thing. Eleanor Johnson rang this morning, wondering if you'd like to write a profile on Vincent Lepak. Sidney stares at him.
I don't know how you did it but somehow you've made it into the next room.
 Well, well...little Sidalee. I feel like a proud Papa.
Listen, I can't stay. Anderson wants me to go to some photographers exhibition. Hot new talent blah, blah...
Right.  How hot is she?
Who?
The new talent?
Do you think you could drop the little wife routine? It's kind of in bad taste. Alison stares at him sadly
I guess you're right. What goes around comes around. Maddox is about to say something but changes his mind.
I'll see you back home. He is about to leave when he notices Alison's notebook on the table.
Sophie's going to get a Golden Globe nomination for best actress.
Wow. That's fantastic. But...the nominations haven't been announced yet?
That is correct so we have absolutely no way of knowing whether or not she will be nominated.  So, if she is nominated we want Sharps to do a feature. Someone to cover the whole lead up, unrestricted access, the trajectory, the building of this unique brand.
I'm going to have a logo.
Here's the deal. Sophie wants you to do it. Sidney stares at her and then at Sophie, stunned.
Merry Christmas, Sidney. This is a cover story. I think a little celebration is in order.
The women breeze past the Doorman and into the club. Sidney hesitates on the thresh-hold, staring up at the sign above him as if it's a magic portal. Sidney walks in.
Sidney walks past celebrities and beautiful people. He's arrived.
Okay, uh...Clark Gable. Go!
Clark Gable to Vivien Leigh (Gone With The Wind), Vivien Leigh to Marlon Brando (Street Car Named Desire), Marlon Brando to Robert DeNiro  Robert De Niro to Kevin Bacon ! The crowd cheers.
Sexiest philosopher?
Uh, tricky, but I'm gonna say Nietzsche. Huge moustache. The Tom Selleck of Nihilism.
Um...most evil philosopher.
Okay. Good. Evil genius philosopher...Hobbes, proto-Nazi, Heidegger - actual Nazi, Hegel - twat. Basically your H's...
Most Hollywood philosopher?
Uh...Bishop Berkely.
What'd he say?
Esse est percipi.
What does that mean?
If they `aint looking at you, you don't really exist.
Alison stands outside, smiling at him.
Hey.
Nice robe.
Thanks. It was a gift. Ralph Lauren.
Who from?
Ralph Lauren. I did a piece. Beat. He still hasn't invited her in.
I just wanted to say I heard about you getting the promotion. Congratulations. I'm happy for you.
Thanks. How's things with you and...
Yeah. I've been pretty busy.
I thought so. Alison stands awkwardly for a moment, smiling, then turns to go.
Okay, well...
Well...keep at it. I believe in you. Alison smiles, touched.
I never gave you these. He takes some papers from a shelf and hands them to her. Alison looks at them - the are titled "Notes On Alison's Novel." There's a LOT OF THEM. She laughs.
You know...
Sidney? Alison looks past Sidney to the bedroom door where INGRID the Fashionista stands in her underwear.
 Hey, Alice. Sidney looks at her and back at Alison. He gives a little laugh.
(half joking, half
How did it all go so wrong? Alison smiles, gives a little wave and walks away - before he can see how upset she is.
We BOOM down from Sophie's fifteen foot laughing face to find Sidney standing on a slim ledge outside his hotel window. He is drunk and wearing only his underwear. He is also yelling with fear. The window behind him is crowded with people shrieking with laughter. Gingerly he edges back to the window and climbs back into...
You didn't do it!
High.
You let me down!
Too high! You couldn't do it. Too high. Sophie calmly unzips her dress and steps out of it, standing in her underwear. There is applause from the on- lookers. Calmly she steps out of the window onto the ledge and disappears from sight. The on-lookers crane out of the window, yelling encouragement. After a moment Sophie appears at another window further along the wall and climbs back into the room to ecstatic applause. She stares imperiously at Sidney.
What are you?
Your limpy pig.
What?
I'm your limpy pig!
That's right! Okay, limpy pig. You need to pay a forfeit. Whatcha got?
I've got my little limpy dance. Sidney dances a little, jiggling up and down.
I...I can't...
Give me the ring. I want it.
I can't. Sophie stares at him through narrowed eyes.
Okay, give me the ring and if I win tomorrow, I'll let you have sex with me. The on-lookers shriek with delight. Sidney stares at her. He looks past her to his reflection in the window - a drunk man in his underwear, swaying from side to side...
 You're a star. You're a big, bright shining star... He snorts a line and, leaning back, flicks blankly through TV channels - a sports programme, a news station, a sit-com re-run... He snorts another line, flicks stations - more sports, a music video, a black and white movie... Sidney stops, staring at the screen... TV SCREEN - we're watching the fifties British movie we saw at the beginning of the film. Sidney's MOTHER is typing at the desk in the background. She gets up from the desk and walks into another office. Sidney stares, frozen. Sidney's mother passes the LEAD ACTRESS who is staring out of the window, smoking. She stares at her sympathetically.
 Don't worry Mary...you'll meet him one day.
Oh, when you meet the One, you'll know... She walks on. Sidney stares at the screen.
Well, well... Look at you...
Made it all the way to the Seventh Room. He holds out his hand.
Congratulations. The wheel of fortune right? You go up, I go down. You're here with Sophie? How about doing your old Rabbi a favour and putting in a good word for me? Maybe a little interview? Sidney absent-mindedly takes his hand, looking past him.
Is Alison here?
Alison? No, we went our separate ways. Actually she left me. Tells me she's in love with someone else. Sidney stares at him.
Nope, not you I'm afraid Sidalee. She threw us both over. Some guy named Clark. I mean...Clark. Can you believe it? But these are the sacrifices we make, right? I don't need to tell you. It's not a vacation. It's a vocation. So listen, about Sophie... But Sidney is no longer listening.
This is me at the Golden Globes. That's my Armani tuxedo. That's a Rolex Sea-Dweller 4000 watch I'm wearing. I'm inside. I'm at the centre of everything. I'm right where I wanted to be. Beside him Sophie covers her face with her hands and starts to stand, having just won Best Actress.
 I need my ring back. Sophie turns back to him, her smile fixed.
I need my ring back. As if puzzled by her inability to make it to the stage, Sophie, still smiling, tries to pull her arm free. Eleanor is instantly beside them, trying to disengage Sidney's hand.
 What are you doing? Let her go!
She isn't the One. My mother gave me that ring and told me I had to give it to the One. She isn't the One. The applause is still going strong. TV Cameras move in on Sophie as she starts to struggle, her smile slipping. Sidney tries to pull the ring free from her finger. Officials move in.
What the fuck are you doing?
Sophie stares at him for a moment then with a shriek launches herself at him. They tumble backwards. The Officials rush upon them. There are gasps from the other tables, people standing up to see what's going on.
 You fucking mother-fucking fucker!
Sophie kicks out at Sidney, ripping her dress in the process.
Oh God no...not the Versace... Security pile on Sidney...
 You're finished! You're finished! Alison begins to smile.
The next available flight is ten am sir. Gets you into New York six thirty PM. Sidney sighs.
Stop the car!
Sidney stands scanning the crowd. He locates Alison sitting near the back.
How's the novel?
Finished. Sidney smiles. He takes the notebook from her and tosses it back onto the picnic blanket. Then he kisses her. As he does so he takes the RING and slips it into Alison's coat pocket. Then they begin to dance, cha-cha-chaaing happily at the back of the park, as the music swells, lit by the flickering light from the screen. Suddenly Sidney freezes, staring over Alison's shoulder to where we can see he has accidentally thrown her NOTEBOOK onto a lit candle. It is now ON FIRE. Sidney shoves Alison aside and dives for the book...
