Cold this morning, Captain. Ramius shivers. When he replies, he speaks not about the weather, but of the land:
It is cold.
And hard. Turning his back on the icy coast, Ramius smi-I fondly at the man who just spoke to him
e your head a bit. No need to crowd him.
Captain, political off=er Putin requests permission to come to the bridge.
Granted.
 Think of it, Comrade.. .son of only a humble mM worker...
Quiet as grass, Vastly. Quiet as grass.  Good morning, Comrade political off=er
Ah,, Captain, every time I climb that ladder, I realize what an over-fed ox rve become. Put in smiles. Ramius smiles back, but his eyes are cold. Suddenly, there's not a lot of Lave on the bridge:
You know he was.
I knew a Lithuanian once... His words hang like rotten fru
...though I'm sure your father was nothing like him. Pefmisrdon to go below? Smirking, Putin leaves. Ramius watches him go. SPEAKERS in the
Conn to bridge, sonar reports we are crossing sixty fathoms.
it's time, Captain. St M dealing with Putin's exit, Ramius turns away from the hatch, contemplating the shore. After a beat, softly:.
We go.
 Clear the bridge! Prepare to dive. Captain coming below. Of cer of the deck, make signal to escort:. Ramius and. Borodin disappear. Red October prepares to dive. All that remains is icy .sea and the Sand. Then, faintly at first, from the frozen coast:
of John Paul Jones fighting the Serapis appears. It's on the wall. in a cluttered study. Books crowd every bit of space. Photos, models and nautical memorabilia, everywhere.
early-thirties, good-Looking, disheveled and harried, stuffs papers into a brief case. Slamming it shut, he reaches for his raincoat.
Daddy?
I can't. Kneeing beside: her, Ryan talks in a steady unpatronizing way. He loves her to death:
What's the matter?
Where are you going?
I have to go on a business trip and you have to go to sleep or when you grow up you'll only be two inches tall.
Stanley keeps waking me up. Stanley is Sally's bear. Ryan talks to it like it was alive. it makes Sally grin.
What's the matter, Stanley? Are you nuts or something?
He's not, nuts. He's lonely.
English, intelligent features, in tweed suit and raincoat. A matronly woman hovers in the doorway behind her:
We are never going to make it.
Just a minute. -
Promise?
pulling to a curb in driving rain at Heathrow. Red Army CHORUS SWELLS. Leaping out, Ryan grabs luggage and races to the driver's side. Margaret pulls his face through the window.
I'm all wet.
Get out of here, Yank. Or Ml tear you limb from limb.
Won't do me any good ---
Jack.
You only have three minutes.
Can I get you anything, sir?
I'm fine. Thank you.
Why don't you try to sleep? The l f ight will go much faster.
I can't seem to sleep on planes. It's the turbulence.
Pardon?
Are you a scientist?
No. I just read a lot of books.
Well, try and get some sleep anyway. She leaves. Wide awake, Ryan stares out the window at the spinning dark. Red Army CHORUS BOOMS.
humping his suitcase into a giant terminal at the end of a long line of travelers. Above the line, a sign:
Jack, boy. Get yourself in here.
Come on over here and sit down. You want coffee?
I think I need ooffiae. Ryan perches on the couch. Greer pours Ryan takes it in both hands, coaling it with his breath.
I'm not gonna ask you how your 11 flight was. When's the last time you slept? --
How's Margaret?
Fine. She sends you her best.
And Sally? What is she now, three?
A very precocious five. A week ago she announced her life would be a loot less lonely if Margaret and I would buy her a baby brother.
All right, what's important enough to get you on a . plane in the middle of the night?
British Intelligence received these two days ago. She's the Red October. The Soviet's newest typhoon.
Jesus. The Brits actually got a man into the construction shed?
This pair was digitally enhanced for line resolution. This one for color.
Twelve meters longer than the normal typhoon, three meters wider. The captain's name is Ramixts.
One of yours?
Yes, sir. I did the bio on him last year. He's taken out the lead boat in each new sub class for ten years. Fairly good political connections. He's also trained most of their attack boat skippers. They can him the Vilnius schoolmaster. Greer studies one of the photos with a magnifying glass. Something captures his attention:
What are these doors?
The doors, Admiral, are the problem. I don't know what they are and neither do the English.
Sub driver. Did he get hurt or something?
When .do you want to talk to him?
Right now if it's OX with you? 've. never met him personally, but -
I'll take care of it.
Margie, have a car for Dr. Ryan at the front gate in tan. minutes. Ryan retrieves his photographs. Getting Up, Greer watches him, choosing his words carefully:
One of our satellites caught Red October in Polijarny Inlet this morning.
Relax, son. The Navy's got a Las Angeles c'la'ss sittJng right off their doorstep. In a few days we'll know everything about her but the wok's name.
Well, In that case --
For Sally?
No. Maybe. It's buried in...
Surface clutter? I should go to SAPS?
Correct, Seaman Beaumont. Surface Affects Processing. There is hope for your small brain yet.
A whale, Beaumont. A whale. A marine mammal that knows a fuck of a lot more about sonar than you do. Beaumont frowns. Appearing in the sonar shack door, directly
Chief of the Boat, a barrel-chested bear, smiles at Beaumont:
He gets to raggin you too bad, kid, you can always ask him about Pavarattt.. Jones sinks into his chair. Beaumont grins. Sea story coming. From the look on Jones' face, it promises to be a good one:
Tell me, Chief.
 Well, Jonesy here, he's a music freak, right? And he figures this sonar system is basically just a big old 300 million ddllar stereo unit. So he gets this piece of Pavarmt3i --
it was Paganini.
Whatever. It's this piece of music he likes so much he wants to share it, right? So he re-wires the computer and figures how to put it in the water with a gigawatt of juice behind it.
What should I --
Be sti 1, I got it. Jones works in silence, then punches the intervom:
Conn, sonar.
Distant contact, submerged bearing zero- nine-seven. It's a wild guess, but I'd say we had a Boomer headed out of the barn.
Start a plot, Jonesy. IM be there in a second. Leaving the deck, Mancuso glances at his executive offker
I'91 be in sonar, PhiL
Jones is already working on the plot. In font of him on the sonar display, the flashing light is starting to move. Mancuso sticks his head in.
What do you have?
in Red October's Conn. Much larger than the control center on the Dallas. Leaving the deck, Ramius heads aft, glancing at Borodin:
When you see Putin, tell him that when it's convenient, 191 be in my stateroom. Leaving the Conn, Ramius enters
Moving past a radio compartment on his left, Ramius stops at a door,
C3osing the door behind him, Ramius turns into the room. Surprised, he sees
seated at a desk, reading a bible. Startled, Putin looks up:
What are you doing?
It's my responsibility to oversee the stability of the crew, Captain. You know that.
And you accomplish this by searching through my papers and invading my privacy?
There is no such thing as privacy in the Soviet Union, Comrade. It's antithetical to the oal]ective good. Suppressing his anger, Ramius moves to a locker, changing into dungarees. He can fiee]. Putin's weasel eyes crawling up and down his back. Holding the bible, Put in muses:
You. surprise me, Captain. A man in your position reading trash about the end of the world.
The book belonged to my wife. I keep it only for sentimental value.
Your wife was a beautiful woman. A tragedy her life was cut so short.
 Given the amount of fire power on Red October, I'm sure the whole world will. breathe a cm1 eotive sigh of relief.
I suggest we open our orders.
As you wish. There's a safe on the wall. Ramius spins the combination. Inside, another safe with four locks. Both Ramius and Putin have keys. Inside the second safe, a large envelope. it has an ornate. scarlet seal, marked 'Top Secret'. Ramius cracks the seeal, removing four pages of operation orders. Glancing at Putin; he reads:
We are to proceed to grid 54-90 and rendezvous with the Akula submarine, Konovalov.
Captain Tupalev's boat.
You know Tupolav?
I know that he is descended from a long line of aril rats and that he was a student of yours. it is rumored, he has no love in his heart for you. Why is that? Ramius pours two cups of steaming tea from a silver pot on a serving tray, offering it to Putin.. Putin takes the cup.
There is no room in Tupolev's heart for anyone or anything except Tupolev.
Captain, this is an historic moment for all. of us. I should like to make a request.
Before you do, I want to talk to you about something important.
I an sorry my friend. But it is cyear to me now. Where I would walk, you cannot fallow. Whatever his destination, Putin's on his way. Getting up, Ramius goes to the desk. Returning with the teapot, he drenches the body with scalding tea. Replacing the pot on the tray, Ramius puts the orders in a wastebasket and sets them on are. Removing a duplicate set of orders from his safe, he' places them on the floor by the dead man. Satisfied everything is the way he wants it, he moves to an intercom and takes a deep breath. Pushing a button, he BELLOWS:
Dr. Petrov. Come to my quarters at once. There's been an aociderit!
built-like a fireplug, a monument to logic and impatience, leans on a cane, atop a platform by the tank#I watching
You're never gonna go anywhere, Be.. Unless you close the hatch and start the goddam engine!
Brilliant, Skip. You're one of those guys you can't hide things from, right?
Yes sir.  What it that thing?
Deep submergence rescue vehicle.
That's what a DSRV looks like.
That's it. I designed this one. lt's aan d the Mystic.
What are you doing with it? Tyler climbs off the piatfarm, working his cane with practiced precision. Taking Ryan by the arm, he heads for a door:
Rigging it with a generic docking acllar so it will mate with British, German, other kinds of subs.
high tech naval architecture. Technicians, graduate students move about in the background. Tyler is hunched over the Red October
Bigger than a regular typhoon.
Could. Question is why would you? Besides, they're symmetrical right straight through the hull.
How about a towed sonar array?
Barely clears the screw in the -- Tyler freezes. Somewhere in that vast abundance of grey matter, a
I'a be go to he'll.! it's a caterpillar!
A what?
Caterpillar drive. Magneto--hydrodynamic propulsion. Like a linear induction motor with saltwater as the ;tat-r. You follow?
Items like a jet engine for water. Goes in the front, gets squirted out the back. Only, It's got no moving parts, see. So it's' potentially very quiet.
Try silent If this works, we'll have to find a whole new way to track submarines. Ryan grapples with the implications. Tyler trips down memory lane:
We messed with it. Years ago. Never could make it work. They really built this? This isn't a mock-up or anything?
it put to sea this morning.
You know when I was eleven years old, I helped my daddy build a bomb shelter in the basement because some fool parked a dozen warheads in Cuba, ninety miles from the Florida coast.
Any records of our work on the caterpillar?
We got an archive. Let's get dusty.
tweet 6ts, muscular, in striped sail or shirt and bell-bottom pang, tosses a hunk of f into a pail.. To Loginov.'s right, Rami:a and Borodin talk with
If I hadn't spilled the tea, Putin might never have slipped and ---
You must not blame yourself,,- Captain. Accidents happen. I assume we wall be returning to base?
We will not.
But how can we continue a m scion without a political offcer?
For many years the Russian Navy went to sea before there were political offScers, Doctor.
Yes, but -
You. Come here.
Good. Now, I want you and the Doctor to witness this, Ioginov. I have removed Putin's missfle key from his neck and am keeping it myse f. Iognov blinks. Petrov frowns. Closing the freezer door, the sates ]save. Loginov isn't sure what to do. Petrov's agitated:
This is all very unnerving, Captain. The reason for having two missM keys in the first place is to prevent one person from...
From what, Doctor?
Making a mistake and...
Impossible. We are ordered to maintain strict radio silence.
Captain, perhaps I should keep Putin's key until --
bent over Jones' shoulder in the Da11as' sonar shack, concentrating on the blinking light on the sonar display. Thompson's to his left. Jones is on a headset:
Can you identify him?
Computer's chewing on it. Twin screw and the plant noise sounds like a typhoon but - Computer ptintar CLATTERS. Ripping off the printout, Mancuso
Must be a new boat.
Fleet hasn't said a word about it.
Alright. Start a f]e on his, Jonesy. For now, call his Sierra thirty-five.  r91 see if we can work in a little closer and sniff his out. Thompson fcDows Mancuso. Beaumont glances at Jones, whispering:
Won't the Soviets hear us?
Not if we stay in his baffles, seaman Beaumont. Not if we stay in his baffles. Come in behind his propeller and he's deaf as a post.
Down scope.
Sonar is clear, Captain.
All right. rm going to address the crew. Ramius grabs the whip telephone. Jaw set, his eyes blaze with
beneath a maze of pipes, technicians listen:
Comrade, navigator.
Captain?
Rig for silent running.
Outer doors are open, Captain.
Engage the caterpi lar.
in the Dalla' sonar shack, working his computer. The COB is behind him, Beaumont to his left. Red October's AMPISFIED HISS f Ms the room. Suddenly,
What happened?
Don't know.
What do you mean, don't know?
on the deck by the phone in Red October's Conn. Conscious of all eyes on him, he turns to a HELMSMAN:
Left full rudder.
Rudder is left fuB..
Navigator, make your new course two-five-zero.
Coming to course two-five-zero. Kama=ov draws a line on his chart. The new course is west into the Atlantic. Suddenly, the intercom CRACKLES:
Sonar contact, Captains Dead astern. An American Los Angeles 0ass3
He must have been in our baffles. We can't have Raising his hand, Ramius activates the intercom
Sonar. Is the American turning to Ballow us?
sticking his head into sonar. The COB and Beaumont are on pins and needles. Jones is working his computer furiously.
it did what?
It disappeared, sir.
t a d) What are you talking about? Check your gear.
Running diagnostics, now, Captain. Jones is starting to sweat. He runs his tests. Nothing. urning, he stares blankly at Mancuso:
Sonar is working, sir. The Russian just disappeared. One minute he was steady four thousand yards off our bow and then he was gone. And r a second, I thought I heard... well ;--
Singing? Jones nods. Hairs stand up on the back of Mancuso's neck:
writing emendations on status boards. On the
Captain Tupolev?
What is it2l
St M no sign of Red October, sir. I think we should surface and contact Red Fleet Command.
To what purpose?
To inform them Red October has not appeared.
What makes you think she hasn't? Tupolev glides to a quartermaster's station. Following him, Bonavia's stomach growls.
Has it occurred to you that Red October may already be in position? That Ramius is merely hiding behind his silent drive? Waiting for me to break radio silence and make a fool of myself?
I will not break radio silence. We wilt lie here quietly for a few more hours. If Ramius hasn't arrived by then, I'll contact Red Fleet Command.
Captain, I am concerned that -
I Care little for your concerns, Comrade. Tupolev leaves. Bonavia glances at the quartermaster. His stomach growls again.
Soviet Navy Pniitical Dir ctorafie From his post in the portico, a uniformed guard races to the limo and opens the door for a dyspeptic, grumpy, old man. He is
Leaving a wake of aides and sues crawling all over themselves, whispered greetings on their lips. Yeah-right-leave-me-alone. Frowning and cranky, Padorin marches into
There's a note from Marko Ramivs there.
Jesus Christ. Somebody just stepped on the gas.
Put it on the speakers. WHINING PROPELLERS and CAVITATION NOISE fi]1 the sonar shack. Suddenly, MORE PROPELLERS:
Jeez. There's another one. Bearing .,even-three.
I'm gonna radio Fleet Command. He takes off. Jones hears something buried in the PROPELLERS and CAVITATION NOISE. A strange WHOOSHING SOUND. Frowning, he starts a tape rewarder.
Yes?
Yes, Admiral, I'm ---
Where the hell are you?! Get your ass to the south entrance of the Executive Offtce Buflding in forty-five minutes. It's across from the White House. Got 3t
Yes, sir, but what's -
in his ofAce on the phone to Ryan:
Let's Just say this is no longer a research project. Now move!
Come on. Ryan follows him past a security guard and into
decorated with secretaries and suits, all, in quiet motion. At speed, Ryan trues to keep up with Greer:
I got a line on the doors. You know what they are? Greer doesn't answer. Impatient, Ryan follows him into
Greer pushes a button marked SUB LEVEL FOUR. Turning to Ryan:
A silent propulsion system. -
Captain of the sub we had following her radioed in. Thing up and disappeared right in front of him. But that isn't the half of it. Read. He hands Ryan a sheaf of message flimsies. The descending elevator stops. Doors open. Ryan reads. Greer leaves. Realizing he's been left behind, Ryan takes off, entering
Jesus... ! This is unbelievable.
About the size of it. Glancing up from his reading, Ryan notices a sign at the end of the
Where're we going anyway?
Who's giving the brieefing?
You are.
The yeoman'fl have the slides all, laid out. AIL you have to do --
Look. No one knows this material better than you do. Give him a rundown on the sub and a precis of the stuff in your hand. He's liable to ask some direct questions. Give him direct answers and say what you think. Yowll do fine. Come on. Ryan takes a deep breath.
the President's National Security Advisor arrives. In his mid-mss, wearing wire-rim spectacles, Pelt's nearsighted, brOliant and a crackerjack poker player. Generals and Admirals take their places. Pelt site at the head of the tabl, turning to Greer:
Let's get started.
Yes, sir. The preliminary briefing today w M be handled by Dr. Jack Ryan. I believe you've seen some of his :work.
Gentlemen, the last twenty four hours have seen some extraordinary Soviet naval activity. The first to sail was --
Ryan points out two photos on a bulletin board. One is of Ramius alone. The other is a wedding photo of Ramius and a beautiful woman.
to elude one of ' our attack boats, the Dallas, which trailed Red October f r om harbor this morning.
You would characterize this as a first strike weapon, Dr. Ryan? Ryan glances at Greer. Greer smi reassuringly.
There's no doubt about that, sir. She is designed to approach by stealth, and fire on a target with little or no warning.
An offensive weapon. The kind you start wars with.
Precisely, Admiral..
Conclusions?
Absence of activity in the Pacific suggest this is probably just an exercise having nothing to do with the Red October. A General starts to object. He's cut off by JUDGE MOORE, a white-haired civilian near the top of the table:
NSA can speak to that, Mr. Pelt.
I must emphasize the extremi ' sensitivity of this information and ask that on no aooount it leave this room.
That's her uncle!
Whose uncle?
The contents of the letter are unknown, but Admiral Padorin immediately demanded a meeting with Premier Ligachev and within minutes of that meeting, the Soviet Fleet sailed with orders to find Red October --
Sink her?
My god. They've got a madman on their hands. He's gonna start a war. A spirited discussion ensues. Tuning it out, Ryan stares at the picture of Ramius and his wife. Urgently, he whispers to Greer:
This is the twenty-gird, isn't it? Greer nods. Order in the room has broken down. Generals and Admirals argue vehemently about appropriate. responses. Staring at the photos, a light goes off in Ryan's brain: SljenCel. Ryan realizes everyone in the room is staring at him.
Uhhmm...I was just thinking there was perhaps another possibility we ought to consider. Ryan takes a deep breath.
Ramius might be trying to defect. Nobody moves. Ryan glances at Greer. Greer rolls his eyes. Too far out. Ryan's on his own. The.General bristles:
Do you mean to suggest -
Go ahead, Dr. Ryan.
Well, Ramius trained most of their Officer Corps. He'd be in a position to sect men willing to help him. And he's not Russian.
Oh, come on! Look, what are you doing here, anyway, Ryan
You're just an analyst, right? You can't possi,hly know --
I know Ramins, General. He's. been a maverick for his entire career. I even met him once at an embassy dinner. met captain Ramius, sir? Have you ever The General darkens. Making a decision, Pelt turns to the Admiral:
Bottom line, how long before Rami>us will be in a position to launch his misses at us?
Four days.
Alright. I'll brief the President. That will, be all, gentlemen.
I said speak your mind, Jack, but
shaking his head, Greer pats Ryan's shoulder and leaves. Ryan's mouth is dry. Pelt gets up:
You slammed the door on the General pretty hard, Jack.
It wasn't my intention, sir -
Well, somebody has to go out and try- - to contact him.
OK. When can you leave?
Perfect. I can't ask any of these chatacters to go. None of them would volunteer putting their reputations on the line. And anyway, none of them are expendable.
below haze-grey sky. A ape breaks the surface, trailing a small wake. Submarine is below.
Mother of God.
The entire Soviet Fleet has been ordered to hunt Ramius down and destroy him. And where were we? Out of contact. Dead in the water!
But, Captain. Have you forgotten that it was you who -
at the head of a table in Red October's wardroom, Borodin to his left. Seven officers sit or stand to the side. Beside Borodin
Before we begin, Captain. I would like to know exactly what happened to Putin?
No, Vlktor. Visibly shaken, Stadnyuk waves his hands:
Captain?
There is no way we could have accomplished our task with Putin aboard. He would have stopped us.
I have no objections to eliminating him. He was a pig. But it's a decision we should all have made.
You're not in command.
Don't give me that command garbage, Vasily. This is no ordinary cruise. We're all risking our lives. Everything that happens affects-each of us.
Enough! Putin is dead. The responsibility and the guilt are mine.
In the name of God, why?
We needed to burn the bridges. Make a clean break.
Do you know me to be a man who talerates insubordination? Tbili- blanches, but will not look away. Ramius glances at the
Return to your posts. All of You. No one moves. Time crawls by. Finally, Borodin gets to his feet:
You heard the Captain. Dismissed! One by one, the men file out of the wardroom. When they are gone, Borodin turns to Ramius,... speaking quietly:'
Captain. I would never disagree with you in front of the men. But Viktor is right. We are in this together. What we are attempting is d'f cult. And --
Our original orders were to demonstrate that this ship cannot be found.
working his tape recorder in the Dallas' sonar shack. Varying speeds, ftering extraneous noise, Jones is isolating the eer9e
in a RAGING STORM. An C-2A GREYHOUND appears, TURBOPROPS SCREAMING, buffeted like a ping-gong ball on a HOWLING canvas of
sits directly behind Ryan at a small desk built into the bulkhead.
Behind the navigator in a cockpit, pilot and copilot. Eyeing Ryan, the navigator SHOUTS:
Some turbulence. Hey, Commander?
This is a picnic, Commander. You should've been with me six months ago when we hit a typhoon in the Sea of Japan. Guys were puking all. over the place. The plot puked all over his window. I puked the radio to death. Puke was everywhere and I'm not talking lightweight stuff. I'm talking industrial strength puke!
Anyway, when we hit that typhoon everybody knew what everybody else had for breakfast. Puke was on the ceiling. Puke was in the ais1 s Ryan is green.
The North Atlantic 100 miles south of Greenland- On the deck, A LANDING SIGNAL OFFICER SCREAMS into a,;. WALKIE-TALKIE. Rain POUNDS his FACE. Wiping his eyes, he
heading for the carrier. PROPELLERS SHRIEK over the STORM. LSO BELLOWS INSTRUCTIONS into his WALKIE-TALKIE. At the last moment, WHEELS RIP into the DECK.
Charles Davenport, commanding officer of the Kennedy! The Admiral is waiting for you in his quarters!
pouring coffee into a large mug on a tray loaded down with sandwiches. Setting down the coffee, the steward leaves.
 Jack Ryan, Admiral.. Sorry for the confusion, but, as:-l was just. telling Captain Davenport, I'm not a naval of cer
You want coffee? Something to eat?
contents. Davenport leans on a bulkhead, staring at Ryan. Painter returns the letter:
Can't get any higher authority than that. Now, what's going on?
at a translucent status board in the quartermaster's station on the Dalla. Behind the status board, projected on a screen, a nautical map of the North Atlantic. Mancuso and Thompson enter.
Go ahead.
I've been working on a sound I heard when the typhoon disappeared. I washed it through the tape machine several times and managed to isolate it. But when I asked the computer to identify it, the answer I got. was magma displacement.
Magma displacement?
Yes sir. See, the system we are using was originally- designed to look four seismic events and although we adapted it. to hunt for submarines -
utto the chase, Jonesy._:.,
Aye, aye, sir. Anyway,; I got curious, and. started tracking. the sound on our lateral array. I located it four different times. The fifth time it was gone and I couldn't find it. But I want to show you what I worked up. Picking up a grease pencil, Jones makes calculations on the status board overlaying the nautical map:
The first contact was at zero-nine-Been hours and the bearing was two-six-nine.
So?
Well, I figure it couldn't be very far away from us, right? Let's say it was halfway between us and Iceland. That would put it on a course like this. Jones makes more calculations on the. status board. Mancuso recognizes a pattern:
Headed directly into Red Route One.
Exactly. Sir, I believe the sound I heard is the acoustical signature of some kind of super-quiet Russian submarine and he's taking the inshore track off the Iceland coast.
What do you think, captain? Mancuso stares-at the status board, then turns to Jones:
Let me see if I got this straight. The three minion dollar computer tells you you're chasing after an earthquake and you aren't convinced. So you get curious and came up with this theory: on your own?
Relax, Jonesy. You sold me. Jones grans.
Let me ask you this. If we get close to this supers lent sub again, you think you can track him down?
Yes, sir. Now that I know what to listen for, I'1 bag the sucker cold.
frowning at Ryan, who sits opposite him, finishing a sandwich:
Christ'_ I've heard some strange stuff, Ryan, but that takes it. Ramius must have a hundred men on that boat. They can't all want to defect. He'd have a mutiny on his hands.
Not ne s_~:4'y. If he personally recruita d the of6cers, it's theoret i ally
Theoretically, anything's p  But you're not in some cubicle at CIA. Over by the porthole, Painter clears his throat:
For the sake of argument, let's assume you're right and Ramius intends to defect. What are you gonna do with the boat? You cant keep it. The Russians will. want it back. And theyRl know you've got it, :`because the crew wl]l tell them so. Or do you intend to keep them too?
Perhaps it would be enough to get some I men aboard to analyze the propulsion
Perhaps. I'm not sure that ---
Well, I agree with chuck on one thing, son. You've got your neck stretched way out there. Didn't Greer ever teach you the rules of survival in a bureaucracy?  Still, it would be nice to keep it. When's the last time you slept?
Can't remember. Every time I get. the chance, somebody puts me on another airplane.
OK. Why don't you rack out fear a while. The chief outside will find you quarters.
When you shook hands with him, you notice the ring on his finger,, Chuck?
Greer told me about him. Three weeks after he was commissioned, he was in a chopper on a rescue mission in the Med. They went down. Bad. P11 and crew killed instantly. That kid spent eight months in traction with a broken. back, and two years learning to walk again. I think lt:'s O K for him to wear.: the uniform. - , Don't you?
surrounded by HOWLING NOISE in Red October's engineerin compartment. The. bulkheads shake. A TECHNICIAN SHOUTS
Converter temperature'is egress above specks and rising!
What is It?
Shut everything down! Ship SHUDDERS. Technicians work at a fever white as a ghost. in seconds, the RACKET stops.
Caterpi']]ar flows are stabilizing.
There was a power spike, but the reactor scrammed itself automatically.
But are there any radiation --
How long before you can fix it?
I have to find out what's wrong first. It could be a problem with the liquid helium cycle. Maybe the super conducting material has failed.
We're going to have to run an normal propuLainn. Can you get the reactor up?
Shouldn't-'we first check the
That will be all, Doctor. Frightened, Petrov, stares at Ramb, The Captain's indomitable. Petrov leaves. Borodin has concerns of his own:
What if we're detected, Captain?
Pray that we aren't, Vasily.
fifties, dewlapped Soviet Ambassador to the United States, in a dark suit and tie. Lysenko's uncomfortable. Pelt stares at him:
Forgive me, Ambassador, for dispensing with the usual formalities. But the President views this situation as critical. Our m,7 ttary counts thirty-two of your anti-submarine aircraft in the sky laying down enough sonar buoys that a man could walk from Greenland to Norway without getting his feet wet. What's going on?
we fear she may. be down. Lysenko leans forward:
I hope there won't be any confusion in this matter.
So do I, Ambassador Lysenko. Confusion could be --
Sonar contact on buoy number one- seven-nine. Contact is twenty-seven mil southwest, ze o-nine-zero. Data indicates contact is Red October.
Red Fleet Command, this is Bear Foxtrot two-eight-four. We have contact evaluated as Red October. Request conformation to attack?
Arm. the weapons. The copilot starts flipping more toggle switches.
Weapons are armed. All pre-launch check is satsfactcry.
in Red October's Conn, talking in hushed tones with Melekhin and Borodin. Oblivious to their conversation, the crew moves about in the background.
What do you mean,  you stall, don't know?
Captain, I need -
Dammit, Alex. If we run any longer on normal power, weft have the w-hole -
All stop!
Bottom the ship.
Wait! Leaving his quartermaster's station, Stadnyuk stands on shaky legs between Ramius and Kamarov:
The bottom is five hundred meters down. We9l be crushed!
You're relieved of your duties, Ivan! Return to your quarters.
Bottom the damn ship!
Four hundred meters. Bulkheads CRACK under tons of pressure. Torpedo and counter- measure'. PING on AUDIO. Red October dives under the torpedo. it misses the safl by inches. Lacking a target, it automatically initiates a wide turn to the left.
We're flooding! Expressinnless, Kamarov slams him back to his chair and shuts down the relief valve. The spray stops:
Keep your teeth on the shelf, boy. Nobody's flooding.
the Red October hits bottom, kicking up sand and sit, bulkheads fragile as eggshells.
Captain, who's shooting at us?
Easy, boy. Borodin COUGHS. Confused, the crew watch their Captain. Lights stay on. Concussions die down. Ships speakers CRACKLE:
This Is the Captain. The explosion you Just heard was the first operational test of a new counter-measure. The torpedo was launched by our friends in Soviet aviation. Borodin stares at Ramius:
Until now, orders required that I keep this aspect of our mission secret so that you might be evaluated under simulated battle conditions.
Diving officer, bring the ship to one hundred meters.
Someone rigged the pipe so that when we took a down angle it would fall into the gears.
No doubt about it. And whoever it was knew exactly how to cripple the caterpillar in a way not easy to find.
 We21. have to find a way to get the crew off this ship, now. We are in danger every second they are aboard.
But, Captain. There's over a hundred of them.
brushing his teeth in the head adjacent to his stateroom on the Kennedy. Through an open door, his unmade bunk. Catching sight of himself in the mirror:
We'd have to get rid of the crew.
in the Dalla' sonar shack, working furiously with his equipment. Beaumont watches. The COB's behind him. TRANSIENT ocean NOISE on SPEAKERS. Over the INTERCOM:
Sonar, Conn. Anything yet, Tonesy?
Where is your phantom Russian sub, Jonesy? According to your calcuiatons we ' should have picked him up hours ago.
He's close. I can feel it.
Close don't count in anything but horseshoes and hand grenades. Beaumont CHORTLES. Jones glances at him:
Don't encourage the man, seaman Beaumont. He's very old.
The hell, you say.
You're an old man, COB. Way over the ham. Your trout is so wrinkled it's about to faU off.
Screw you.
Speaking of which, what happened to that Hustler Magazine that was in the head?
For many months, seaman Beaumont, there was a Hustler magazine located in the crew's head. it was community property.
Where'd it' go?
I have a theory, seaman Beaumont. I believe the CO B Is like a black widow, spider. After he has sex with a magazine, he eats it. Beaumont HOWLS. The COB turns pink.
Goddam you, Jonesy --
Wait! Jones the tunes a dial. In the distance, barely di i nguishahle through transient NOISE, the sound of RUSTLING WATER followed by a fleeting HUM.
Leaning over a status board in the Combat Information Center on the Kennedy. Replete with lights, the status board reveals details of force deployment. Ryan enters, carrying copse:
Morning, Admiral.
Sleep well?
Like the dead.  Our friends have been busy.
During the night, they positioned most of their front line submarines at barrier stations between Greenland and Iceland. Here, here and here.
Could you get me aboard the Dallas?
We could fly you out there in a helicopter. But I don't think you'd like that much.
That's all there is, I'm afraid. Putting down his coffee cup, Ryan stares at the status board. A sal]ci r arrives with a message. Reading it, Painter glances at Ryan:
DaIlas found Red October and is backing her now. Locking eyes with Painter, Ryan grits his teeth.
at tire control in the Dallas' Conn. Thompson's on the deck.
Jones -'studies his w tern - The COB stands behind him. Beaumont watches. A]l kidding has stopped. This is strictly business:
Sonar, Conn, aye.
Concur, possible zig. Bearing rate increasing to the right.
Jones studies his equipment. Beaumont wonders what's going on. Suddenly, Jones barks:
the COB and Jones ft+eeze. Everything's super-quiet. Beaumont
What! s ' going on, Jonesy?
Conn, sonar. Red October is coming left. My read is he's returning to base course.
Skipper got him. The Russian hasn't got a clue.
Bearing rate has steadied. He's returning to course two-one-zero.
Very well. Secure from quiet running. RADIOMAN enters.
Damn!
What?
!re not gonna believe this.
on a SH-3 on the Kennedy's flight deck. Ryan and Davenport move to the waiting chopper. Davenport SHOUTS:
The Dallas picked up Red October and is tracking her again. The Admiral issued orders for her to fall back and pick you up. Davenport takes Ryan's arm.
Ryan, listen to me. Getting someone on a sub is a nightmare. The Admiral told me what happened to you in the Mediterranean. The next hour could be very rough. Ryan ftroes a grin. A sax7or helps him into the helicopter. Davenport steps back. ROTORS ACCELERATE.
in his chair in his office in the Executive Office Building. Sitting on the couch in precisely the same position as when they last talked, Ambassador Lysenko wipes his brow:
The weather in Washington is so unpredictable, don't you think?
How can I help you, Ambassador?
I'm afraid there's been a pew development.
silent), The. submarine in question, Red October, is commanded' by a Captain Marko Ramius Apparently r he has suffered some kind of a nervous breakdown...
Why didn't you tell me this the last time we met?
In my position, I'm sometimes compromised by the fact that Moscow doesn't tea me everything.
So one of your submarine captains has gone insane?
The other day you offered your assistance
The other day it was a rescue mission. You want us to help you hunt Ramius down and kill. him?
Because American lives are at stake, I've been instructed to ask your President for precisely that.
I understand. Pelt picks up the phone.
dappling a choppy sea. Ice-cold WIND whips whitecapped waves and lashes the horizon. The helicopter with Ryan aboard circles into view.
no contact with the Da'Ha!
Fuel capacity is in the red!
We can't wait any Unger!
Hang on. I have contact!
OK. Tell them to surface.
Whoever this guy is, he's in far one hell of a ride.
Pull this to release! Fighting. panic, Ryan glances down. A mitlion miles below, the sea bans- mine-grey.
You got a man dangling at the end of a line with no paint of reference and helicopter rotors generating enough static electak ty that we have to ground him or it! l be like grabbing a hot wire and if he falls in the water the only way to get him out is with divers 'cause most of the ship's underwater.
I put Jonesy in the forward escape hatch in case he goes in the drink.
Good. We got no idea who this guy is or why the Navy wants his on our boat so bad.
Hang on! He trips a laver on the winch. Cable feeds out a few feet Holding his breath, Ryan inches into the abyss.
Reel him back in!
If they don't pick him up this time, we have to cut him Ioxe!
Are. you injured!?
I'm gonna take you in through an escape trunk! Jones hooks Ryan to the line. Salt stings Ryan's eyes. His, breathing's ragged.
Wait a minute!
Listen, you son-af-a-bit h. I'm only gonna tell you once. Stick this fucking thing in your mouth and breathe! Ryan takes the mouthpiece, inhaling and exhaling rapidly. The helicopter circles above. Jones drags Ryan
Jones starts draining the trunk. Everything slows down. Echoes REVERBERATE. The water level in the trunk drops and the
Jesus Christ! I cant believe it! Jesus Christ --
Take it easy --
When I hit the water, it was like Ice. I thought I was going to freeze --
Slow down. You're hypervent it sting.
Captain, we have to find the Red October. She's a Russian --
What the hell are you yammering about?
I have to talk to -
Mr. Thompson. Get this man some dry clothes and coffee.
I'Il be in the Conn.
No, sir, captain. operating as before.
Captain. Battle stations are manned.
Very well.
What do you mean battle stations?
And I have been ordered to blow him out of the water if he stays on a course to the United States or demonstrates any hostile intentions.
Officer of the deck. Make,
Wail!
All. stop i Come left and stay in his baffles. Rig for quiet running.
Listen to me, Captain. There must be some way you can establish contact without violating your orders. I'm telling you, he wants to defect.
 AIL back two-thirds. Nobody moves. Jones glances at Mancuso. Mancuso stares at Ryan The ofSt r of the deck's e d
Sorry, sir. Would you repeat --
I said, aill back two-thirds!
Helm answers. AIL back two-thirds. Hell RINGS. Ship SHUDDERS. Ryan's ears pop. Jones glares at
AIL shop!
in the Conn on Red October, surrounded by activity. Urgently, he speaks into a mike:
Sonar, this is Ramius. Can you identify the contact?
in the Dalla' Conn, on the deck. Thompson's at fire control. Ryan is to Mancuso's left. Crew's at battle stations.
Flood tubes one and two and make torpedos ready in all. respects.
My orders are specific, Mister.
Tubes one and two flooded and ready in all respects.
as before in Red. October's -Conn. The crew has come to battle stations. Borodin is at fire control..
Shall I flood the tubes?
 No. Lock the (ring solution into computer. Do not flood the tubes.
on the DaIIas in the Conn. Eyeing Ryan, Mancuso opens a mike:
What's he doing, Jonesy? Has he l f ooded his tubes?
Negative, Captain. He's just matting there. Hold on --
What does it mean?
It means, he's a very cool customer,
sian. He knows we're here and that we are ready to fire. But he's not going to provoke us. He's heading to periscope depth to see what's on the surface.
Conn, sonar. My only contact is Sierra thirty-five, Red October. Bearing two- seven-zero.
Conn, aye. Fire control, range to target?
Range is three hundred yards.
Diving oar make your depth sixty- f f ve feet.
Weapons are armed. Tubes one and two are not ficoded.
Bearing zero-nine-zero. in the Conn, Mancuso is glued to his scope just like Ramius. Ryan can hear his heart nq:
All right, Mr. Ryan. You wanted to:. talk to him. There he is. What do you want to say? Ryan chooses his words carefully. As he does, Mancuso hits a periscope light in morse:
American government told you intend to launch mis. lc s. Do not approach U.S. coast. Repeat. Do not approach U.S. coast, or you .w>7 . be attacked. If you understand, ping once.
He can do that. But is he gonna do that?
Verify the range again.
I'D. be dammed.
Just send it.
Verify the range one more time.
But Captain, I just --
Give me a sounding, ' Vasily! Ping once only. Borodin goes to work. Ramius stares at Melekhin. Melekhin frowns. What the hell is happening?
Down scope.
(to Mancuso,.,
I need to look at a nautical chart. Do you have --
Ryan, what's going on?
black as night, reverberating with eerie nightmares. From the cloying dark, Red October rises, a shimmering phosphorescent giant.
Valve three shut. He shuts a valve with a large wrench. Turning a page, Petrov
Place flask under valve four and draw one hundred m peter coolant sample.
Placing flask under valve four. Drawing sample. A tiny stream of fluid fa]ls into the flask. Unexpectedly, an ALARM GOES OFF. Technicians freeze.
Shut the valve and secure the sink! Melekhin shuts the, valve. Petrov stares at the alarm. Below it, a meter is flashing red:
Seal that sample in a plastic bag and take it to the lab. I'I1 get the Captain!
Do you think they will let me live in Montana?
I think they w91 let you live wherever you want, my find.
Good. Then I will raise rabbits in Montana and marry a round American
Keep your vcadoe down, Doctor. There are several explanations -
Listen to me. Radioactive fuel is in the water. If it gets into our air, it could ' loll us all!
I said, keep your voice down. The
Forgive me, Captain. But -
it's probably a piece of corrosion in the pipes. That happens. Now let's take' another sample. But quietly. We don't want to panic the crew.
minutes later. Melekhin and Petrov prepare to draw another sample at the sink. Ramius stands behind them. Technicians to the rear. Melekhin struggles with the valve:
I may have shut it too hard. Grabbing the wrench, Ramius leans his weight on it. Suddenly, the
valve CRACKS. HOT water SPRAYS Ramius in the FACE. Melekhin
Secure the valve before the water turns to steam ! Desperately, Ramius tries to plug the hole. The VALVE BREAKS. BOILING WATER pours out, turning to STEAM, SPLATTERING Melekhin. ALARMS GO OFF. Ramius BELLOWS:
Evacuate the compartment-' Technicians scramble for the door. Searing hot steam chokes the compartment. Melekhin SCREAMS:
in try and stop the leak. Everybody get the hen out of here!
Get us to periscope depth.We ]i ventilate!
Captain. L,ieubenant Tbi3JsJ reports the sea state is too rough to launch the rafts' over the she. The men will be gushed!
All right. Instruct the crew to secure the rafts to the deck. When all. personnel are aboard the rafts, we will scuttle the ship out from under us!
Captain, Major Tbilisi reports the crew are secured in rafts and rafts are tied down. We should join the crew and scuttle the ship.
I think so. I --
U.S. Knox class frigate. She's flashing light. I']]. read.
Doctor. When you get home. You will. hear many stories about me and some are true. But tell them that in the end I did my duty. Petrov splits. Borodin slams the hatch behind him and seals it.
A hundred yards beyond Red October's bow, the SEA EXPLODES. The CONCUSSION and the STORM are mind-bending. Petrov thinks the world's coming to an end. In the rafts, men slash at ropes binding them to the deck. One by one, they drift free of the submerging ship into foaming sea. One sailor can't cut his rope. His raft's dragged under. Wind HOWLS. The frigate FIRES AGAIN. Another EARSPLITTING SHRIEK. Another EXPLOSION. Tons of icy saltwater cascade over Petxov's head. - Gulping air, Petrov spots the raft and sail r pop back to the surface. Red October's sail disappears. Sailors haul freezing men from raging water. Hell on earth.
bow slicing through the freezing ocean at flank speed. On the fantai, a helicopter prepares to take off, ROTORS HOWLING
Torpedo Inputs?
Set and veri ed as ordered.
Roger that, Bravo One. Five hundred yards to the drop paint. Torpedo is armed and ready.
Seahawk One reports torpedo armed and ready to fire. Requests final authorization to drop.
I protest! What authority do you have to fire? I protest!
Seahawk One reports torpedo is launched and running normally at forty knots. I have it on sonar.
in a white uniform and cap. Beside him, Skip Tyler, leans on his cane, concentrating on Curry's display.
Torpedo has detonated.
And you understand, Lieutenant. I was never here. That torpedo did not self-destruct. It hit the target. Right?
in the Conn aboard the Dallas with Thompson. Mancuso has a .45 in a holster on his belt. Thompson reads a message:
Frigate reports phase one completed, Captain. We are ordered to proceed.
OK. Now comes the weird part. Thompson fo lows Mancuso out of the Conn into
running aft. Mancuso and Thompson move at speed. Mancuso is far
I don't like leaving the boat, Phil. But the orders are specific.
We're gonna be f ne. Rounding a corner, they start
This has got to be the craziest stunt I've ever heard of. There's only about two ml]]k n things that can st]l. go wrong. At the bottom of the ladder, they enter
Ahead of them Jones and Ryan wait by a ladder beneath an open hatch. Like Mancuso, Jones is armed. Jones starts up the ladder. Ryan follows. Mancuso turns to Thompson:
Listen. If anything --
Captain. We'll be all right. Mancuso climbs up the ladder, disappearing through the hatch. Thompson closes it.
OX. Passengers are aboard. Check-off complete. Request clearance to lift-off.
Battery sperm?
Eighty percent capacity. Homing beacon is five degrees to the right. Recommend new course zero-seven-five. Range now five hundred yards.
Roger. Coming right to course zero-seven- ive. Make initial preparations to land. The copilot starts toggling switches. Behind him, Mancuso checks the .45 in his holster. Ryan watches.
Contact is two hundred yards below. One hundred yards ahead.
Roger.
We have a seal. Skirt is dry.
Roger. Open the hatch. Getting up, the copilot heads for the hatch.
Wait. Copilot stops. Reaching into his jacket, Mancuso offers Ryan a .45.
And he can't change his mind?
He's not going to change his mind.
Willing to bet your life on that.' Ryan stares at the pistol. Sighing, he puts it in his jacket. Copilot opens the hatch. In the gloom below, another hatch. Copilot raps on it. Somebody opens the lower hatch. Mancuso, Jones and Ryan climb down into
Russian Cigarette?
Gentlemen, I am Marko Ramius. I and my offers request political asylum in the United States.
You have a good memory, Captain. We meet briefly years ago. But I'm not a naval commander. I work for the CIA.
Easy, Captain. I'm not an agent. I'm just an analyst.
Torpedo! Americans are shooting at us.
Wrong. Ours growl. Yours whine. It's Russian!
leaning over Curry's console in the CIC aboard the frigate. Agitated, Curry works his computer.
What do you mean there's another torpedo? Where in hell did it come from?
in the Conn aboard the Konovalov. His crew's at battle stations. Bonavia mans fire cost 'aL opening a mike, Tupolev SHOUTS:
Sonar. Why hasn't our torpedo impacted?
New oorrtact. Sierra four-one, bearing zero-one-zero. Aku]a c1a..s Soviet submarine.
What's the status of Red October?
Dead in the water.
They can't maneuver with the goddam DSRV stuck to them.
Get back to engineering and give me some power!
Get that damn thing off my boat. Mancuso's halfway up the ladder. He spots Steiner peeking down at
I think somebody just shot a torpedo at us!
No shit, buckwheat. Get the hell. out of here!
No, Vasily. I need you in fire control. We must track whoever's out there. Borodin heads for fre control. Ramius tosses Ryan into the chair behind the helm :
You sit here!
Do exactly as I tell you! Stunned, Ryan grabs the helm. Jones and Tbilisi, must have made it to sonar. Speakers CRACKLE:
No! That's wrong. Ryan, don't turn that goddam wheel! Ryan stares at Mancuso then at Ramius. Deciding, he turns the helm left, coming to course zero-two-zero.
I know.
Mother of God.
Why is he heading into the torpedo? Is he trying to kill himself?
Mr. Thompson. We have a solution on the Soviet Akula. Shouldn't we shoot back?
Pardon?
What books did you write?
I know this book. I have read some parts of it.
I'll be dammed.
What happened?
Combat tack, Mr. Ryan. By turning into the torpedo,, Ramius closed the distance before it could arm itself. I never would have thought of it.
So we're safe?
Not yet. Right now, the Soviet Captain, a man named Tupolev is removing the safety features on all his weapons. He won't make the same mistake twice. Behind Ramius, Ryan spots a SHADOW at the rear of the Conn. He can't believe his eyes. The goddam shadow has a pistol in hand.
Jesus Christ. Gunge.
Gunfire?
Hurry up goddammit! I want all the enabling devices disconnected!
Captain, I cannot go any faster.
I would have like to have seen Montana. And the Indians.  captain? - _. He dies. RAGING, Ramius POUNDS the BULKHEAD. Kamarov notices a light on a panel:
He's in the missile compartment!
But the control is blasted to hell. I can't shoot.
Then get behind him and stay there. Don't let him put you in his sights or we're all dead. Mancuso tosses Ramius his .45. Catching it, Ramius splits. Ryan follows.
a caged tiger in the Conn on the Konovalov. Bonavia turns, looking back at him :
Enabling devices are removed.
Damn.
He'll break into a panel and short -circuit the wiring on a missile. We'll be blown to pieces. Taking a deep breath, Ryan follows Ramiais into the
coming face-too-face with a BARRAGE of GUNFIRE. Ramius is HIT. Ryan drags him into a space behind an electrical panel. Mercifully, the shooting STOPS. Ryan checks Ramius. His shoulder's a mess. Mind riling, Ryan studies his surroundings. He's never felt so alone. The compartment is vast, dominated by twenty tussle tubes six feet
We must stop him before he gets into a panel.. Ryan stares at Ramius. Ramiii isn't gonna stop anybody. Resigned, Ryan finds the .45 Mancuso gave him in his pocket,
Be careful what you shoot at in here, Ryan. The compartment is very sensitive. In a daze, Ryan starts walking aft, still MUMBLING:
Be careful what you shoot at, Ryan. Very sensitive.. .in here...
Sensitive stuff...in here ...I have to... be careful... of course. The ship turns. Wall becomes cuing. Grabbing the catwalk, Ryan hangs at a ninety degree angle. GUNFIRE. Bullets RIP into the BULKHEAD inches from his HEAD:
I have to be careful what I shoot at.. He doesn't have to be careful... He can shoot at anything he wants.
The Akula is too fast. No way Red October can stay behind her. lt's only a matter of time now.
Another torpedo, Captain. It has enabled and is active. It has acquired us and is homing.
Red October looms into view. To the right, the Konovalov shimmers in the dark. Between them, the torpedo appears. PINGS grow CLOSER and CLOSER. At the last minute
raves into view, rocketing forward at full, bore, streaking between Red October and the torpedo. it's really something.
Jesus Chi i t.
The Dallas has moved between Red October and the torpedo. The torpedo is chasing the Dallas now!
Conn, sonar. Torpedo is in acquisition. Range five hundred yards and c3nsing. You've done it, Mr. Thompson!
Chief, release counter-measures and emergency blow all main valves. Let's hope to Christ this works!
Signal ejector station. Release counter-measures.
Rounding the tube, Ryan holds the .45 at arm's length. Kneeling before him, directly in front of an open panel on the missale bay is a Sovvet sail or with crazy eyes:
the cook's assistant who witnessed the Putin key exchange. He's got a hot wire in each hand. Time stands sthl. Ryan stares at Loginov. Loginov stares back. There's something in the Loginov's eyes, an uncompromising, irrational vi lainy that asks no forgiveness. For a moment, Ryan's paralyzed, a rabbit before a cobra. Deliberately, Loginov begins to move his hands together, bringing the wires closer. Ryan tri es to speak. He can't. Loginov's grin cracks wide like a rotten egg.
Flame LEAPS from the BARREL of the .45. The pistol KICKS like a MULE. Loginov is delivered to eternity. Impotent, the wires fall to the floor.
Directly ahead. Range five hundred yards.
Got him. Match bearings and the.
We are too close. I have to set
Shoot now! Tupolev pulls the lever himself.
Left full rudder!
Wait. I -
The weapon was not properly programmed. PINGS CLOSER. LOUDER. Finally, PINGS become a SPINE- TINGLTNG HOWL. Bonavia SHOUTS:
You stupid arrogant bastard. You've Idiled us all!
Captain Tupalev has just provided your pantomime with the one thing you could never have managed.
in his office seated across from Lysenko:
With the depth of the water and the wreckage scattered over such a wide area, it we]. be a long time before anything is recovered. Your people are already interviewing the crew and making arrangements for their r turn. (Lysenko nods,
This has been a terrible tragedy, Mr. Ambassador. I can only stress that if you'd come to us earlier, it might have been avcdded.
I appreciate your candor in the matter.
There is another matter... One I am reluctant to -
No. Please go ahead.
One of our submarines, an Akula, was last reported in the Reykjanes Ridge. We have not heard from her for sometime. Pelt stares at him blankly, time hangs suspended. Finally, Peat reaches far the bridge of his now as if to stave of a ]dtler
You've lost another submarine?
standing beside a limousine outside the Executive Office Building. Fuming, Lysenko approaches. The driver smiles. Not a good idea.
Shut up! Don't speak to me Boris. Don't ever speak to me unless I speak to you first. And wipe that smile off your face! Lysenko pBe into the limo, slamming the door as hard as he can. Locked inside, he starts shouting and hitting things.
on the tree studded bank of a large coastal river. A gentle breeze touches the trees and punctuates the silence. Crickets and frogs sing on the shore:
We're two hundred miles from the nearest naval base.
Interesting notion, hiding a submarine in a river.
I grew up not far from here.
There is one question you have not asked me.
Why?
We. are standing on part of the reason. I've spent my life preparing to fight a war I hoped would never happen. This ship was not built to fight such a war. it was built to start one.
Your wife?
Or perhaps it was something that started long ago...
Fishing?
Fishing. Taking a deep breath, Ramius studies the surrounding hills. Lights from farms twinkle in the night air.
"The sea will, grant each man new hope, as sleep doth dream of home."  Christopher Columbus. Ryan smilm.
walking down the aisle of an airplane, checking passengers. Stopping near the front of the cabin, she glances down at
sound asleep in his seat, empty tea cup on a tray beside him. A blanket hangs on one log. In the seat next to him
