It's 20x20 square, with a wraparound porch and simple wooden shutters. The structure is hidden in a clearing that's been crudely hacked out of the sweaty wilderness.
It's louder this time. Unmistakable. The Teen watches as the Man pulls a crystal-handled dagger from under his pillow and stealthily creeps to the door. The Man cautiously leans in and peers through the bamboo slats. WHAT HE SEES: The empty porch. No sign of life. Relieved, he turns back, opens his mouth to speak when his face contorts. He looks down and sees the tip of
Run!
wraps around his throat. He is effortlessly hoisted by a TOWERING MAN with skin as cold and pale as alabaster.
Its serrated blade ignites with silver flame as it sweeps towards the Teen. The boy's DEATH CRY echoes as the CAMERA ZEROES IN ON the pendant that glows brilliant-bright.
searing into his skin. As he leans forward to grip his ankle, he cartwheels off the jet ski and viciously body-slams across the water.
Daniel, what's wrong? Did you break your ankle? But as she turns him over, she sees the light leaking from between his fingers and reels back.
Oh my God. He stares up into the crowd's fearful faces, then staggers to his feet and takes off running.
Number 3 is dead. Henri's eyes narrow with urgency. He is immediately on his feet, he kneels at Daniel's side and studies the symbol on the teen's ankle. It has stopped glowing but is painfully raw. Directly below this fresh wound are
Did anybody else see this? OFF Daniel's panicked nod...
skitters across the ceiling, its glossy black eyes watch as Daniel frantically stuffs his clothes into a duffel bag. The walls are bare. No photos, no posters, no personality. Henri enters, holding a crate of computer cables.
Taillights in five minutes. What we can't carry --
-- we burn. I know the drill.
Time to go.
It darts up the fender, squeezes into the jamb of the trunk, and Houdinis into the vehicle with a flick of its tail.
This is the part I hate the most. The running. But it's the only thing in my life that's real. The rest is a lie. My name. My birthday. Even Henri. People think he's my father. He's not. His job is to keep me alive.
We are hiding from the Mogadorians. A brutal race that wiped out our entire planet, Lorien.
Only nine children escaped the genocide. We were each given a number and sent here to hide. I don't know where the others are. I only know when one of them is murdered.
I got the first scar when I was eight. I woke up screaming. We lived in Vermont. The second was on a Tilt-a-Whirl at a fair in Michigan. I was 12. Yesterday was the third. His finger traces the lines of the other two scars.
Because of the spell our Elders cast, the Mogs can only kill us in order. That's the reason I've survived this long. But our enemy is relentless.
Now their hunt has turned to me. I am number 4.
Florida's clear. I sent a letter to the school and there's nothing in the papers.
I didn't even get a chance to say goodbye. Henri keeps going, passes an envelope across the table.
New IDs. Daniel pulls out his birth certificate, reads the name.
Just when I think you can't get any less original, you lower the bar.
I'm not interested in originality. I'm interested in untraceable. There are 335,321 John Smiths in the United States.  John looks at him, then abruptly gets up and storms away. Henri drops $20 on the table and calmly heads after him.
It's been so long since the last scar.
You got lulled into a false sense of security. That's my fault. John struggles to keep his temper in check.
I liked Florida. I liked having friends. I liked feeling normal. Henri's face softens with paternal compassion.
I wish that you could have a normal life -- but you can't. Only now does John turn and face him. His eyes blaze with frustration.
Then why fake it? Why not just go hole up in the wilderness.
That's exactly what Number 3 did.
It's from an African news site. A man and his son went missing two nights ago. The locals think they were taken by strange beasts. John understands the implication.
Piken.
The Mogadorians are natural-born hunters. Blending in is our best protection.
So we just keep moving from town to town?
Until I say otherwise -- yes. John waits as a TRUCKER passes through the room. His voice softens but never loses its intensity.
I want to be from someplace, Henri.
You are.
Lorien's your home, I don't even remember it. John's tone rubs Henri the wrong way.
Like it or not, it's your home too. You have a responsibility to those who died.
I want a say in where we live.  You already picked it, didn't you?
Cheer up, you're going to be living in Paradise.
A frigid sheet of RAIN POUNDS the sign that's planted on the side of this narrow stretch of rural blacktop:
She looks even perkier than the realtor in Florida. A warm smile graces her round face and she's clutching a fruit basket. For the record, she is called ANNIE.
What's your name?
John Smith.
Where are you from, John?
Arizona.
Why did you move to Paradise?
Because you're an asshole. John waits for a reaction but doesn't get one...
Because my dad needs peace and quiet to research his book. Henri nods and smiles wryly.
This was a lot easier when you were
Here we are. Home sweet home. They scan the faded interior. The place is in desperate need of a makeover. A grandfather clock pensively TICKS at the end of the hall. Annie remains relentlessly optimistic.
First impressions?
It's perfect. Annie places the fruit basket on the dining table and begins turning on the lights.
That's one word for it. Stewing, John exits into the hall with his duffel bag. Annie reads the strained dynamic.
I feel your pain. I have a daughter his age. Apparently, I ruin her life on a daily basis. John steps back in, holding a sun-faded poster featuring NFL great Bernie Kosar.
This guy was covering a hole in my wall. Annie's cheeks blush with annoyance.
I told the handyman to patch that before you arrived. I'm so sorry.
Don't you worry about it. She nods, grateful.
We'll knock it off the rent. Keep the poster, Bernie Kosar brings good luck here in the Buckeye State.
That's the last of them. I'm hitting the sack.
I need a new photo first. John crosses and stands against the wall.
Say Paradise. John gives him a withering look. Henri flashes off a shot. The camera is cabled to one of the laptops. TIGHT ON LAPTOP: The image of John pixelates onto a digital grid and a face-recognition program begins to map his facial structure. Henri turns to another laptop.
I've imputed the new search words: Daniel Jones. Big Pine Key. Sunset High School. You think of any others?
Yeah, this place sucks.
If there's a story or picture of you on the internet, this program will find it. Our enemy doesn't know who you are -- I want to keep it that way. John nods, knows he's being a jerk.
Sand Dollar Beach, that's where we were jet skiing. Henri types it in when something SCRATCHES at the door. Their heads instantly turn towards the sound. Tense SILENCE. SLOW PUSH IN ON THE DOOR as another SCRATCH echoes. Henri is on his feet. He flicks off the lights and silently signals John to retreat down the hall. With the cool air of an assassin, Henri unzips a duffel bag and pulls out a sleek crystal-handled dagger. As he steps to the door...
I found our intruder -- he's a little small for a Mogadorian. At that moment,
slips between Henri's legs. It cocks its head, studies John's face, then pads forward and licks his cheek.
He's starving, doesn't have any collar or tags.
Must have been dumped.
You know, another pair of eyes and ears watching the house wouldn't be a bad thing. Henri considers the request, nods. John playfully ruffles the dog's head.
What are you going to call him?
Since I need all the luck I can get -- how about Bernie Kosar?
Wow. You outdid yourself. What's up? Henri lifts a red backpack into view. John stares at it.
I already have a backpack.
This one has five days of rations, spare clothes, cash and a handheld GPS. Keep it with you at all times.
Henri, come on.
Game's changed. You're in the crosshairs now. You have to be ready to leave at a moment's notice. With or without me. John stares at the backpack, takes in this new reality. He pushes the plate away, snatches the backpack and heads out the door. Henri stares at the omelette, tastes a pinch of hash browns, then puts the plate on the floor on his way out. It takes Bernie 2.5 seconds to race over and start to eat.
The little dog is sitting by the flagpole wagging his white- tipped tail. John crosses to him, baffled.
Bernie, what the hell... were you hiding in the car? He scoops the dog into his arms.
Hey, I was about to take a picture of the little guy. John turns and finds
She's his age and is holding an old 35mm Nikon. There is something about her unforced beauty that is instantly enchanting. John shuffles, uncharacteristically nervous.
He's not supposed to be here.
He's really well-trained. How long have you had him? John turns away.
Sorry about your shot.
No worries. He begins walking towards the entrance.
You just moved into the house on Old Mill Road. It's John, right?
Don't worry, I'm not stalking you. My mom said she rented it to a guy with a son my age. Since I know every other face on this quad, that had to be you.
Where are you from?
Someplace warmer.
I don't think that qualifies as an actual answer.
I need to register. She raises her camera to snap a shot of him.
Whoa. What are you doing?
Capturing your first day, even though you're technically six weeks late.
Please don't point that at me.
Afraid the camera's going to steal your soul? She lifts the viewfinder to her eye, adjusts focus. Annoyed, he covers the lens with his hand.
What's your problem? I said no.
It's only for the yearbook. John regains his composure.
I'm not big into having my picture taken. Sorry. As he heads away, Sarah watches, intrigued. CAMERA TRACKS TO REVEAL MARK JAYNE monitoring the encounter. He's the star quarterback and his chiselled jaw tenses with jealousy.
viciously sideswipes him. The textbooks scatter across the checkerboard linoleum. John sees the culprit is Mark Jayne, who offers him a taunting grin. John fights his urge to react and watches as Mark struts over to his POSSE OF JOCKS.
Welcome to Paradise, irony not included. John looks at the teen standing two lockers down. He's got a battered skateboard tucked into his backpack and wears an Army surplus jacket. This is SAM GOODE -- genius by birth, slacker by choice. He nods after Mark.
His name's Mark Jayne. Quarterback, sheriff's son, he's three years into the best four years of his life. John begins retrieving the fallen books. Sam helps.
Do yourself a favor -- stay off his radar.
Didn't know I was on it.
You were talking to Sarah Harte.
She was talking to me.
Mark and Sarah have been exclusive since Freshmen year.
If there's another guy in her airspace, he shoots them down. You got a warning shot. John piles the books into his locker.
Maybe I'll fire back next time.
Look, you're new, so let me tell you how things work in this misnamed backwater. Football players are gods -- the rest of us are mere mortals. If you want to survive, keep your head down and don't make waves.
You sound like my dad.
Obviously a wise man.
Thanks for the download. As he SLAMS his locker shut...
Alright, people. Let's hit the gym. The assembled teens GROAN and fan off towards the mouth of a tunnel that stares out from the base of the bleachers.
Okay, half court, three on three. Girls have this basket, boys have that one.
Two simultaneous games are in progress. John sits on the sidelines waiting his turn. He avoids eye contact with Sarah who is sitting in the shadow of the basket. However, he does notice Mark Jayne enter and approach her.
New kid, you're up. Show me what you've got. John steps onto the court and waits for the ball to come his way. He steals a glance and sees Sarah and Mark arguing. A blur of orange. John swings back and catches the ball. Just as he shoots, he's distracted by Sarah's upset voice.
goes wild, misses the basket but hits the glass backboard with such force that it
Mark and Sarah are inadvertently forced to separate as shards rain down. All eyes turn to John, who's annoyed at his momentary lapse. TEENS HOOT. The Coach BLOWS his whistle.
Enough! Hit the showers.
The dog is studying him with his head cocked.
Let's keep this our little secret. OFF Bernie's inquisitive eyes...
First day here and you're already destroying school property. So much for not making waves. John moves past him and grabs a tray. He's flushed and his face is now hot and red.
It was an accident.
I hear the real spectator sport was Mark and Sarah's blowout. John wipes his brow, distracted.
Dude, you okay?
Fine. At that moment, Mark Jayne and his buddy, KEVIN, cut in front of them. Annoyed, John taps Mark on the shoulder.
You got a problem?
Line starts back there.
Football players get priority.
Where's that posted?
Unwritten rule.
If you don't know your place around here, things can get rough. John holds his ground.
In that case, I guess I better ask you where I should sit. I was thinking about grabbing that chair next to your girlfriend. In a flash of anger, Mark whips up his tray, hammers it into John's chest, knocking him to the floor.
You want to talk trash? Let's see you back it up. John tries to stand, but is suddenly overcome with a wave of pain. He looks down at his hands and is alarmed to see
blooming from his palms! He quickly balls them into fists, extinguishing the light from view.
Get up! SILENCE has fallen. Still clenching his fists, John rises and stumbles out into the hall. OFF Sarah's concern as she watches him exit...
Dude, hold up! John leans against the wall, keeping his hands out of sight.
You look like crap. I'll get the nurse. But as Sam runs off, John heads in the other direction.
John looks at him, confusion and fear etched on his face.
Henri, what's happening to me?
Calm down. You're going to be okay. John angrily holds up one of his luminescent hands.
On what planet is this okay?
Yours.
Okay, start talking. What the hell's going on?
Your first Legacy is starting to manifest.
Legacy?
An extraordinary ability. Yours is called Lumen. They start a lot sooner on Lorien. I was beginning to fear yours would never emerge.
You knew this was going to happen? Why didn't you say anything?
I didn't want to worry you. You were already under enough pressure.
What else have you been hiding from me?
This couldn't be opened until your first Legacy appeared. Ready? John nods nervously. Henri places the fingertips of his right hand onto five petal-shaped discs inlaid onto the lid. John cautiously follows suit and places his fingers on the petals fanned across the opposite side.
momentarily glow and a SHARP CLICK echoes from within. John and Henri pull their hands away and watch as the Box miraculously comes to life. Fissures of light sweep across the lines of inlaid stone, dividing the lid into sections that begin to twist and reform like high-tech origami.
Whoa. PUSH IN ON Bernie as he sits up and watches the Box unfold. Like an intricate jigsaw, the sections finally regroup, creating a new pattern on the lid. It's a familiar geometric symbol. John touches the crystal pendant that hangs from his neck -- the symbols are an exact match.
Open it. John nods, cautiously lifts the lid, revealing a neat assortment of velvet pouches and an array of colored rocks. They range in size and color but all share a serene beauty.
What are they?
Crystals from Lorien's core. They'll guide us in your training. John tries to reach for one, but Henri slaps his hand away.
Place your hand over them. John follows the instruction and is amazed when a walnut- sized crystal floats up from the Box. It slowly begins to spin and project
Our solar system. Henri points to a planet. Its oceans are dark with pollution and its sprawling continents are barren and treeless.
That's what Lorien looked like thousands of years ago. We had all the problems that Earth has today. The planet was dying until our people made a collective decision to change and slowly Lorien began to heal itself -- that's when the Legacies started. John watches as the spinning planet transforms before his eyes. Its oceans turn a vibrant chroma-key blue and the land masses become a lush emerald green.
Only a select few developed these abilities. They became known as the Garde.
That's what I am?
Like your parents and grandparents. John considers this new information.
The other children in the ship... Henri finishes John's thought.
They're Garde as well. Once you've mastered your Legacies, we'll find them and face the Mogadorians together. John looks at Henri, curious.
What Legacy do you have?
I don't have any and never will. I'm your Cepan -- a teacher. My job is not just to protect you but to train you.
Trust me. Henri flicks a flame to life and sweeps it under John's outstretched palm.
You feel that? Amazingly, the flame harmlessly licks the skin. But when Henri moves the lighter further up John's arm --
Ouch. John jerks his hand away. Henri kills the flame, shrugs.
When we're done, your entire body will be shielded against fire. John rubs his singed wrist.
You'll get other Legacies too.
Flying would be cool.
You don't get to pick them off a menu. KNOCK. KNOCK. KNOCK. As John spins to the door, the shimmering galaxy fades and the crystal drops to the floor.
Mogs don't knock.
It's a girl. John looks over his shoulder and reacts with surprise.
How'd you do it? Her accusation startles him.
Do what?
Eviscerate the entire senior class? She pulls a strip of overexposed 35mm film from her coat.
I was in the darkroom before lunch and they were hanging on the line smiling and looking forward to the future. When I got back, I found 15 rolls of negatives wiped clean. John shrugs innocently.
I don't know what you're talking about.
So you weren't in the darkroom today?
No.
Here's a tip. If you're going to lie, don't leave a big red backpack at the scene of the crime. She swings his backpack into view. John is mortified. He struggles to find a plausible answer and silently tries to quell the feeling welling in his chest.
I don't know what happened. Maybe it's a sign that you should invest in a digital camera.
Digital sucks. Film tells the truth. Clearly, I'm not going to get that from you. He watches as she angrily heads down the steps and climbs into her car. John glances at his palms and is surprised to find they are dimly luminescent.
is behind the wheel and watches as her headlights fade into the night. OFF his simmering jealousy...
Everything okay?
She was returning my backpack. He dumps it by the door.
I think you should stay home from school for a couple of days.
I'm fine.
Just to be safe.
I'm going for a run. Bernie trots out and wags his tail pleadingly.
Sorry, buddy, you couldn't keep up.
John moves at superhuman speed, leaving a blurring wake of leaves. His foot splits a log as he bounds over it.
John charges towards a secluded stream. It's 30 feet wide. He doesn't slow, leaps off the bank and effortlessly hopscotches from boulder to boulder to the other side.
alights in a nearby oak tree. John bends to tighten his laces, his eyes fall on the trio of scars branded on his ankle. His happiness dims.
disappearing into a room at the end. He's torn, then makes a decision and does something he shouldn't -- he strides down the hall after her.
I think you have the wrong room. She rises, walks past him and begins searching the photos scattered on the layout table in the middle of the space.
Wanted to apologize.
Does the apology come with an explanation? He turns to go, has his hand on the door when --
Wait. He looks back. Her face softens.
How about we delete Monday and start over? She steps forward and extends her hand.
I'm Sarah.
John. TIGHT ON THEIR HANDS as they shake. She checks out his fingerless gloves, amused.
Nice gloves. She crosses to the board, reaches down to lift it when John steps behind her.
You know all these people? She nods.
Curse of a small town. I've been around them my whole life.  Kim Thomas. She peed in her bed at a sleepover when we were seven.
So what's your story?
Not very interesting.
Determined to keep the mystery alive, aren't you? His finger arrows in on a photograph of Sarah. It's a candid and she's taking a shot with her trademark Nikon.
You first.
Okay. Recovering cheerleader. Wannabe vegetarian but I still love burgers. Dreams of being a photojournalist.
Your secret's safe with me. She studies him, sensing a kindred spirit.
You ever feel you don't belong in your own life?
Every single day.
Wow. That almost sounded like a straight answer. They look at each other. There's a charged silence. The moment is broken when --
What's he doing in here? John and Sarah spin to find Mark. Sarah is flustered.
I thought you were on two-a-days.
Coach wants me to rest my arm before the scouts come. You didn't answer my question?
John was helping me move some boards. John turns to Sarah.
I'm going to take off. Mark doesn't take his eyes off John and blocks his way.
Seriously, Sarah, what's up with this guy?
I don't have time for this, Mark.
But you had time to go to his house the other night. Sarah looks at him, stunned by the admission.
You were following me?
Just trying to figure out what's going on with you. Sarah's shock turns to anger.
You've crossed so many lines I can't even speak to you right now. She hustles out of the room. Mark glares at John.
This isn't over. OFF John, unmoved by the threat...
The house detonates. The concussive force of the blast rips the structure right off its stilts. Tornadoes of flame BLAST through the windows as the house catapults into the air. Orange reflections flicker on the Girl's visor as she flips it down, REVS the motorcycle and SCREAM-PEELS down the drive backlit by the glittering inferno...
Nice freakout the other day.
Wasn't feeling well. They twist their combination locks. Sam swings open his door, there's a HISSING POP and
has his door halfway open and ducks back a second before the ink pack planted in his locker ERUPTS. The spray misses his face but violently spits across his chest and arms. LAUGHTER echoes behind them. John spins and finds Mark and his posse. TIGHT ON John's hands as he balls them and an angry glow flickers through his gloves.
 Told you it wasn't over. Behind them, Sam's laid-back persona cracks. He frantically clears his locker, looking for something. He finally pulls out a photo which drips with ink, reels at the jocks.
Assholes. John looks back at Sam. Mark seizes his chance and launches a sucker-punch at John. But John sees it out of the corner of his eye and in a blur of motion whips up his hand and
That sensation you're feeling -- remember it. With a quick push, John shoves Mark back against the lockers. Mark DENTS a door and slides to the floor, his eyes flaring with lacerated pride.
Show's over. The crowd disperses. Mark gets to his feet and exits with his friends, but shoots John one final wounded glare...
I raided lost and found. He holds up a puke-green sweater decorated with red snowmen. John turns back to the sink.
I know. Nobody loses anything cool. He sits and begins to change.
Dude, the way you thrashed Mark back there. Awesome move. John acknowledges that with a nod. Whip-dries his shirt. Sam plucks up the photo. The ink is now dried and cracked.
Who's in the picture? Sam stares at it, nostalgic.
My dad. My real dad. I took it the summer before he split.
He dragged me and my mom all over the Yucatan. He was looking for evidence of ancient astronauts. All I got was Montezuma's Revenge.
I know. Insane. He called himself an anthropologist even though he only made it through one semester of college. He rises and tosses the ruined picture into the trash.
Always thought he'd come back one day -- who was I kidding. The guy's a joke. As the BELL RINGS...
John. He turns in surprise as Sarah approaches.
I heard about the lockers. I'm sorry.
I'll live. He starts off again.
I broke up with Mark. He stops, slowly turns back.
I've been thinking about doing it for a while... today just finally pushed me over the edge.
Why are you telling me? She bows her head, suddenly embarrassed.
I don't know.
You made the right call. The certainty of his voice soothes her. She looks up and holds his gaze. Their attraction is undeniable.
Halloween Block Party's tonight.
I saw the banners.
I'll be on Main Street hiding behind my camera if you want to swing by. He says nothing.
I wasn't expecting an actual response. I could text you later. Do they have cell phones on Planet John? She holds out her phone. John looks at it tentatively, then takes it. As he inputs his number, he hears the BLARE of a car horn, looks up and sees Henri waiting in his SUV.
Wasn't that your friend from the other night?
Her name's Sarah.
Principal called. Said there was an incident.
A guy was messing with me. I took care of it. Problem solved.
You're stronger and faster because of Earth's gravity -- you shouldn't use that advantage to settle petty scores.
It was no big deal. Don't blow it out of proportion.
You can't risk everything over wounded pride.
I wasn't looking for a fight. It just happened. Get off my back. Henri pulls a printout from his coat. John unfolds it. ANGLE ON PRINTOUT: It's from the Florida Keynoter website and features a photo of the charred stilt house. John's gut churns as he stares at the image.
Article says it was arson.
We were clean. There's no way the Mogs can track us here. Henri shakes his head, shifts into gear and starts off.
They can track us anywhere. I think it's time you saw what you're really up against.
It's white and as thick as two fingers. It floats in front of John's face. He tentatively reaches out. When he grips it, a shock wave of light blasts out, totally WIPING OUT THE FRAME and transporting him into
 Keep moving.
Young John and his grandfather scramble across the space and straight into the path of
He looks younger, the years of hiding have aged him. John's grandfather lifts a familiar crystal pendant from his neck and places it over Young John's head.
This is your Cepan. Go with him.
No!
Your life is my life now. I will always protect you.
They are already hunting you! Go! Henri plucks a crystal ankle-dagger from his boot, grabs young John and charges up. As the Commander breaks cover, Henri hurls the dagger.
dives out of its path but ROARS as the blade SPARK-RIPS across his right cheek like a hot poker.
leap out. Their reptilian bodies ripple with muscle and their oversize heads glint with raptor-like jaws. The Piken mercilessly rip into John's grandfather. Young John races to help, but Henri wrenches him back. CAMERA PUSHES IN TIGHT ON YOUNG JOHN'S FACE as he screams...
Nooooooooooo! THE MEMORY ENDS and we...
Nooooooooooo! He drops the crystal and stumbles back. The experience has left him traumatized. Henri steps towards him, but John is too overwhelmed and runs out.
I saw my grandfather. I saw what you did to the Mogadorians -- you saved my life.
A lot of Lorics sacrificed their lives so that you could live.
He said I must survive.
The Elders had a plan. You weren't on that ship by chance. The nine of you were chosen for a reason. Even if only two of you live, together you'll pose a grave threat to our enemy. Consumed by bitterness, John hurls another stone.
You saw what they did to Lorien. How can nine or six or two of us take on that army? It's hopeless. Henri knows he has to pull him out of this mournful funk.
I never thought we'd get off Lorien alive -- but we did. I didn't know how we could survive on a strange planet -- but we have. I gave us six months before the Mogs found us -- it's been 10 years. Don't give up now. Henri grips John's shoulders.
You have the potential to do great things. Even if you don't see it -- I do.
How can you put so much faith in me?
Because your life is my life. If you quit, then everything I've worked for and sacrificed is meaningless.
It's Sarah. The Block Party's tonight. I'll say I can't make it. Henri sees John is wracked with doubt and confusion.
No... go. John looks at him, surprised by this paternal gesture.
You've had enough for one day.
You work here?
Not by choice.  Ed's my stepdad. He's under the delusion that if people eat enough candy apples and kettle corn, they'll suddenly have the urge to buy sporting goods. John plucks a hockey mask from the basket on the counter.
I put those on special tonight for any wannabe Jason Voorhees. Sam pulls off his apron, revealing a T-shirt emblazoned with the words Future Supervillain.
Screw this. Let me lock up. I'll hang with you. He steps to the door and twists the closed sign into view.
What about your stepdad?
He hit the tavern at 6:00. He's already hammered by now. I'll probably find him passed out on the doorstep. Every night is trick r treat at my house.
She's over there. John follows Sam's gaze and finds Sarah taking shots of some KIDS dunking for apples. She pulls the camera from her eye, sees John and smiles as he approaches.
You made it.  Like the T-shirt, Sam.
Guidance Counsellor said I need to set goals for myself. Figured I'd aim high. She looks back at John.
What do you think of Halloween in Paradise? John regards a particularly over-the-top float.
They should pull out all the stops next year.
Well, you haven't had the full experience until you've been on the Haunted Hayride.
Give me a sec. She steps to the face-painting booth. It's sponsored by the local realtor who is Sarah's mom, Annie. Sarah hands Annie her camera. Sam whispers to John.
I'm impressed. Before John can respond, Sarah steps back.
You guys ready?
Three on a wagon might get a little crowded. I'll meet you two on the other side. He gives John a not-so-subtle wink of encouragement. John and Sarah join the end of the line and watch Sam head away.
Sam's cool.
Definitely unique.
I haven't really talked to him since 8th grade. Mark had a tight circle. If you weren't a jock or cheerleader, you didn't exist.
I'm glad you broke free.
Me too. OFF their growing connection...
Not even a flinch. None of this scares you, does it?
I'm trembling on the inside. He smiles.
You can smile. I was starting to have my doubts. She takes his hand. They CLATTER past a series of grisly
A TEEN jerks and SCREAMS in mock agony as he is fried in an antiquated electric chair. A BLOOD-SPLATTERED DOCTOR CACKLES as he hacksaws the legs off a CHEERLEADER chained to a gurney. A squad of blood-hungry VAMPIRIC FOOTBALL PLAYERS attacks a rival team of WEREWOLVES.
Hell's Gate, everybody off. The duo reluctantly clambers off the back and watches as the hay wagon circles back the way it came.
Once we make it through, we're home free.
pendulums in front of them. Sarah SCREAMS and clenches John's hand harder. A pathway of lights floods on, illuminating a skull-capped gate. The words
That was insane.
What was that?
Just part of the ride. He turns, sees a flash of purple light and hears the rustle of HEAVY FOOTSTEPS on all sides.
Are you sure? As he steps forward,
Let go! Stop it! John tries to stand, but a boot CRACKS him in the ribs. Another strikes the side of his face. He is surrounded. His attackers are brutal and unrelenting. Over the LOOPING SOUNDTRACK OF B-MOVIE NOISES, Sarah's muffled SCREAMS DIM.
Sarah! Sa- His voice is cut off as a fist SMASHES into his jaw and the steel cap of a combat boot SLAMS his groin. John staggers up but is viciously kicked back to the ground. PUSH IN ON JOHN'S FACE as it hardens with blind rage. In a blur of motion he reaches up, grabs two of his attackers by their coats and hammers their skulls together. As they drop, John spins to meet his other two foes with
One is Mark Jayne's buddy Kevin. They're wearing zombie makeup and military fatigues and have night-vision goggles strapped to their faces. John angrily strides forward, palm outstretched. NIGHT-VISION POV: Everything is an overexposed blur until --
John brutally clotheslines one, then pummel-rams Kevin in the chest, sending him flying back 10 feet into a tree. Kevin slumps, out for the count. John arcs a glowing hand through the darkness.
Let go of me! She futilely tries to wrestle free.
 Help! Somebody! Something about her terrified tone alerts Sam.
Sarah? She doesn't answer. He hesitates a moment, then charges into the woods.
Sam turns in the direction of JOHN'S VOICE. He's about to head towards it when
You're blinding me! Stop! Sam cautiously sneaks a peek, shields his eyes with a hand. WHAT HE SEES: John pins the Jock to a tree and holds a luminous palm up to the lenses of the teen's goggles.
Where's Sarah? Tell me!!
Shepherd Falls. Now turn off that damn flashlight! John rips off the Jock's goggles, then pile-slides him 15 feet into a rotten stump and takes off in a blur of speed. CAMERA STAYS ON SAM. OFF his stunned reaction...
Are you crazy! Where's John? Mark nods the Zombie Jocks away.
Relax. It's a practical joke.
I swear if you hurt him --
Why do you give a shit?
Get out of my face, Mark, you're pathetic.
I'm the best thing that ever happened to you and I'm giving you one more chance. Appalled by his hubris, Sarah turns to leave.
Don't walk away from me! Mark grabs her. Sarah wrenches free, but loses her balance and falls back on the ground. Mark's rage is transplanted by concern. He steps towards her to help when --
Back off! Mark watches John step out. Blood trickles from a cut above John's right eye.
John! Are you okay? He nods. Mark looks past him, confused.
Where the hell are Kevin and Joe? John holds up a clutch of night-vision goggles.
They got spooked.
Hey, those are police property! John flings them over Mark's head into the water.
I'm going to kill you! With lightning speed, John grabs Mark's arm, spins him, pinning him to a tree. Blinded by rage, John jerks Mark's arm up behind his back.
John! Stop! Mark is in real pain. Transfixed with anger, John keeps twisting. Sarah looks at him, pleading.
That's his throwing arm! But he doesn't stop until she finally steps forward and slaps him across the face. Startled, John lets go.
Football's all he's got. John stumbles back, ashamed, and heads into the woods. Sarah offers Mark a look of disgust and follows after John.
John! Wait. Sarah catches up.
I'm sorry, I didn't want you to break his arm.
I'm not mad at you. I'm mad at myself. She stops, faces him.
I had no idea Mark would pull something like that. He has seriously gone off the deep end.
The guy's in love with you. Wants you back.
That's not love. Their eyes meet in the moonlight.
Walk me home?
This is me. John stares at the dozen jack-o'-lanterns arranged on the porch. They glare back with flickering bucktooth grins.
I know. Wait until the Christmas decorations go up. My mom decks the halls with so many lights, you can see our house from space. Stray TRICK-OR-TREATERS race past. She motions to the cut above his eye, concerned.
You should see a doctor.
For this? Wouldn't waste their time. She looks at him, curious.
You're not going to tell me how you took out those football players, are you?
I really don't get you. She steps closer.
But I feel like I can trust you.
You can. The air is charged.
Good night. Sarah swings open the white picket gate.
Wait. As she turns back, John steps forward and kisses her. Although taken by surprise, Sarah quickly succumbs to his passion. However, as their kiss intensifies,
rise and hover in midair. Sarah has her back to them, but when John's eyes momentarily flicker open, he sees the orbs grinning back. Startled, he pulls away from her.
instantly drop and SMASH onto the porch, their candles blowing out on impact. Sarah spins and stares at the jack-o'- lanterns, pulp oozes through their cracked shells. Suspicious, she slowly turns, looks at John for an explanation. He does his best to cover his stunned reaction. Fat drops of RAIN begin to fall. John puts up his hood.
I better go. OFF Sarah, watching him melt into the downpour...
I heard on the police scanner that eight boys were beaten up in the woods tonight. Henri turns on a light, nursing a mug of coffee. Bernie wakes. John pulls off his hood. Henri looks at the cuts and bruises on John's face.
They won't talk.
That was a stupid thing to do. What were you thinking?
They attacked me. If I hadn't defended myself, I'd be in the ER right now. Would that have been the better choice?
Coffee and shards splatter across the floor. Henri looks at John, stunned. John shrugs sheepishly.
I was getting to that. I got a new Legacy. Henri absorbs that revelation.
Telekinesis. That's a big step. Must have been triggered by the fight. John doesn't correct him, averts his gaze.
I need to teach you how to control these abilities. We'll start working on that tomorrow. The conversation is suddenly interrupted by the repetitive WHINE OF AN ALARM. They cross to the bank of computers. Henri urgently stabs commands into a keyboard.
What is it? Henri pulls up a website.
We got a hit on one of the search words.
That's Sand Dollar Beach.
Looks like a cell phone camera. There's enough for the Mogs to ID your face.
Can you take it down? Henri remains ice calm and starts typing commands.
Working on it.
I'm sorry, Henri.
This isn't your fault. There's still nothing to trace us here. Henri glances up from his screen.
This could take all night. Get some sleep.
blur ACROSS THE FRAME of one of the surveillance camera screens and disappear into the woods.
I've narrowed it down to three possibilities: you're a genetic experiment, you're a freak of nature, or you're an extraterrestrial.
I don't know what you think happened tonight... Sam steps closer, watery reflections ripple down his face.
Your hands lit up like a firefly on crack, you tossed those football players around like crash test dummies, and you took off faster than an Olympic runner.
What do you want from me?
I just want to know who you are. John looks at Sam, realizes he's not going to give up. He hesitates, then finally surrenders...
I'm a survivor from a planet called Lorien. Sam absorbs this confession with awe.
Your dad... he's from there too?
Henri's not my dad. He's my Guardian. If he found out you knew about us, we'd be gone by morning.
I won't tell anyone. John nods, grateful.
There's something I want to show you.
The tarp is whipped off the pickup truck. It's an old Ford. Sam and John stand before it.
The cops found it abandoned in the middle of Route 20, just south of White Sands, New Mexico. It was my dad's. He went missing six years ago. He was on one of his crazy fact-finding trips. He believed we weren't alone in the universe. Sam rubs his hand across the hood, wondering.
Mom figured he was having an affair and took off. All these years I thought she was right. Now you're here.
That doesn't prove anything.
It proves he wasn't crazy. I'm starting to think that he didn't bail on us... that maybe something else happened out there -- that he was taken. The moment is broken by the SLAM of the front door and the sound of ANGRY FOOTSTEPS. Sam instantly tenses.
Guess the bar closed.
Sam! Where are you? His speech is slurred and aggressive.
You think I wouldn't hear you locked up early! John looks at Sam, shocked and concerned.
You going to be okay?
If he finds you here, it'll be worse.
You look wiped. Henri turns and smiles playfully.
I wasn't the only who was up last night. John nervously hands Henri one of the cups and lies...
Sarah texted me. I went over to her house. Henri buys the explanation and swings back to his computers.
I've tried every trick I know, but I can't crack that blog's firewall.
There must be a way.
We need to find where the site's located and take it offline manually. The URL source has been run through a labyrinth of servers, it could take weeks to track down.
I want to help. Henri takes a gulp of coffee and stands.
You can. Get changed.
I don't see any family pictures around. I guess the photo aversion is hereditary. He greets the observation with a shrug. She carries on.
Your mom... grandparents. Is there anyone else in your life?
They died.
I'm sorry.
It was a long time ago. It's just me and my dad now. John uses a nail brush to clean the beagle's ears.
I get the feeling he doesn't like me very much.
It takes him a while to warm up to people. Sarah considers this.
Thanksgiving's tomorrow. Why don't you bring your dad and celebrate with us?
I don't know. Are there going to be a lot of people?
A tsunami of relatives. But don't worry, I'll shield you from the wave. Besides, I want everyone to meet you. She playfully splashes him. Their faces inch closer. They begin making out hot and heavy until Henri suddenly walks in.
I've found the -- Caught in the act, the teens lurch away from each other.
Just giving Bernie a quick bath.
You're clearly putting a lot of effort into it.
I better hit the road.
I finally tracked the location of that blog. It's a house in Warsaw, Indiana. About four hours from here. I'm heading up there tomorrow.
Sarah invited us to Thanksgiving. I told her we'd be there.
Send my regrets.
You shouldn't go alone. It could be dangerous.
I won't risk taking you. I'll leave early and be back by five. John looks up and sees Henri sitting in solitude.
Don't you ever get lonely? Surprised by the question, Henri swivels to face him.
How could I? I have you.
You know what I mean. All these years, there's never been anyone.
We aren't like humans. Once we fall in love, it's for life. The pain of separation is unbearable. Henri's face clouds with melancholy and he abruptly gets up. As he heads into the kitchen John studies him with new eyes.
What was her name? Henri slots a plate onto the draining board.
Anastasia.
You left her to save me.
You're not responsible for what happened to her -- they are. He slowly turns and regards John with deep paternal concern.
I looked at her the way you look at Sarah.
I was hoping to protect you from that pain.
You can't protect me from everything. OFF Henri's sad smile of acknowledgement...
Wearing khakis and a pale blue Oxford, John tentatively walks up the front path. The warm sound of LAUGHTER drifts from inside. He takes a breath and rings the doorbell.
Come on, we're on gravy-boat duty.
You look dazed.
Just taking it all in. She crosses.
I'm glad you came. They tenderly kiss until Annie bustles in carrying a steaming bowl of mashed potatoes.
Don't mind me. She puts the bowl on the table and grabs Sarah's camera.
Let's get a picture of you two lovebirds. Sarah cringes as Annie lifts the camera to her eye.
Mom. No. John really doesn't like having his --
It's okay. Let her take it. The gesture means the world to Sarah. He puts his arm around her. Sarah nestles her face against his. As the flash WIPES
I need to check in with Henri. He exits.
I'll see what's taking him so long.
John! He looks back.
It's Henri. I have to go. Sorry. OFF her confused disappointment as the truck SQUEALS away...
Thanks. I owe you.
Anything to get out of Thanksgiving at my house. He offers John a weary smile.
I checked out that blog on the way over. Saw the video. What was the deal with your ankle? John pulls up his khakis, shows Sam the trio of scars.
Death scars.
They kind of look like the symbols in my dad's research.
Abduct people? No. Irritated, he covers them back up.
How about the ones you said were hunting you?
They're capable of anything.
Number 417. Henri tracked the URL to that house. Sam scans the street.
I don't see his SUV anywhere.
He would have parked it across town. Sam opens the glove compartment and pulls out a revolver.
Stole it from Ed.
I called you because I needed a ride, not a sidekick. If I could have run here, I would have.
See anything? Annoyed, John spins and finds Sam creeping towards him.
I told you to go!
They might know where my dad is! John realizes Sam is determined. He sweeps his hand back over the kitchen door. His palm illuminates a familiar
It's lying on the counter by the fridge.
Henri's here. John turns off his palm and reaches for the door handle. Sam anxiously swats his arm away.
Wait! Other than strength, speed and night-light, what powers have you got?
Telekinesis -- but that's a work in progress.
No invisibility, X-ray vision, flight?
Sam, we drove here. Sam takes a deep breath, psyching himself up.
Okay. I'm ready. Let's do it. But as John reaches for the door handle, the kitchen light suddenly turns on and a MAN enters. He's built like a wrestler and goes by the name of FRANK.
He's crouched next to John at the side of the porch. He frantically begins trying to extinguish the stub. John clamps his hand over Sam's mouth and snuffs the cigarette between his fingers. Once Frank's safely around the corner, John releases his hand. The duo silently climbs onto the porch. John squats in front of the door. His hand shakes as he holds it out towards the lock and concentrates.
Hurry up. Hurry up. Hurry up. There's a LOUD CLICK.
You just dead bolted it! Way to go!
New plan -- follow Lucky Strike. Text me if he comes back. Sam sneaks off after Frank.
Henri! He races over. But as he reaches for Henri's gag, a YOUNG MAN steps out of the shadows holding a baseball bat. John turns too late and the bat strikes his left side. He drops the dagger as he falls to the floor, his ribs searing. The man, BRET, raises the bat again. John focuses his mind.
whips out of Bret's grip and torpedoes towards John -- who ducks out of the way as the bat flies past. Confused, Bret lurches forward. John scrambles for the bat, clenches it in his hand, and swings it into the young man's legs.
knocks the light as he topples into a column and CRASHES onto the cement, out cold. It's over in a violent blur. John sits stunned for a moment. The swinging bulb casts surreal shadows as he spins back to Henri, telekinetically unlocks the padlock securing the chains, and rips off the gag. Henri is groggy and his face is swollen from brutal beatings.
You shouldn't be here.
Your life is my life, remember? Henri tries to shake his drug-induced haze.
I talked my way in. Thought the big guy was buying it. He rubs a wound on his neck.
I was asking him about the video when the other one shot me from behind... some sort of animal tranq.
We have to leave! John helps Henri up, they race for the stairs when Bret's hand grabs John's ankle, tripping him to the floor.
Henri! Henri smashes his boot into Bret's face, knocking him out for good. John staggers up, they spin for the stairs just as
Stay planted or I'll blow your friend's head off. Henri looks at John in shock.
to the pickup fly out of Sam's pocket and slide under the stairs. John flashes on his palm, casting everything in eerie blue light. On all fours, Frank scrambles for the fallen weapon. It's almost within reach when he is lifted right off the ground by an invisible force.
Tell me what you know! Franks says nothing. John trains his palm light on the big man's face. It's like a blinding interrogation lamp.
Start talking!
I don't know what they're called. The one in the red coat said he'd kill me if I didn't do what he wanted. This revelation stuns Henri.
The Mogadorians... they've been here? Frank nods in terror.
He told me to call if anyone came asking about the video. Sweat beads John's face from the mental exertion.
Did you?
We need to go! Now! John releases Frank, who drops onto the floor like a whale and is knocked out. At that moment, a razor-thin line of dust drops from the floorboards above.
Sam, get us out of here! Sam reaches into his jeans, then frantically checks his pockets.
I must have dropped the keys! Henri keeps his cool, looks at John.
Start the engine.
I can't. Henri's calm eyes never leave him.
Yes, you can. John nods, puts his hand on the dash and closes his eyes. The engine TURNS OVER but doesn't start. Sam looks up the street, panicked, as
Hurry up! John's brow is furrowed with concentration. The Mog unsheathes his sword as he runs. With a superhuman leap, he lands on the hood -- TWAAAAACK! John and Henri spin out of the way as the sword SHATTERS the windshield and impales in the back of the seat, missing them by a mouse hair. As the Mogadorian withdraws the sword to strike again, Henri sweeps up his dagger and stakes it into the Mog's neck.
The engine ROARS to life. The Mogadorian tumbles off the hood, magenta light spurting from his wound. John turns to Sam, who is petrified, and SCREAMS...
Sam wrenches the shaft into gear and floors the gas. The Mogadorian EVISCERATES in a frenzy of embers. The truck bursts through the blizzard of sparks and STREAK-PEELS away.
I called you like I said. It's not my fault they got away! The Commander steps into the moonlight that seeps through the window. We get our first good look at his face. A gnarled scar runs down his right cheek, identifying him as the same Mogadorian Henri wounded in the escape from Lorien. His skin is deathly pale and his eyes have a cold purple tint.
Where did they go?
How should I know? The kid had me pinned to the ceiling. The Commander turns to Bret.
Where did they go? Bret is too freaked to even speak. The Commander nods to the Soldiers. They grab Frank and Bret by the heads and yank open their mouths. Frank watches in confused terror as the Commander holds one of the meditation balls.
We'll meet you back at the house.
We're not going back to Paradise.
Is he serious? John nods, numb.
What am I supposed to tell people?
Nothing. Forget about us. We never existed.
We leave at nightfall.
Henri, this is insane. They still don't know where we live. Henri seethes.
It's only a matter of time. They know our faces. They saw Sam. How long has he known?
Since Halloween. Henri is floored and hurt by the admission.
I trusted you and you lied to me! John bows his head, can't meet Henri's gaze.
Only because I knew how you'd react and I didn't want to leave Paradise. Henri paces, tries to quell his emotions.
Now we don't have a choice. The Mogs are using humans to trap us. From this point on -- no more towns. No more schools. We're going off the grid until we find the others.
No. His tone is defiant.
This isn't a discussion. In a flash of pent-up anger, John holds up his hand and telekinetically sweeps Henri off his feet and pins him against the wall. Henri looks at him, stunned.
I'm not leaving without saying goodbye to Sarah. Henri fixes him with a steel-edged stare.
Let. Me. Down. Spent, John releases Henri who slides to the floor, shaken. The dynamics of their relationship forever changed. Henri finally stands.
Give me your phone and IDs. John hands him his cell phone and wallet. Henri opens the back of the phone and pulls out the SIM card. SNAP!
John Smith dies today.
The Chief wants to send the morgue boys in and seal this tomb.
Hope they haven't had lunch yet. These guys were gutted from the inside out. He steps over to Frank's body which has been splayed open. As he flashes off some shots, the
appears in the corner of his viewfinder. She's kneeling by Frank's severed head which has rolled a short distance from the body. The Photographer pulls the camera away from his eye and looks at the Teen Girl, confused.
Who the hell are you? She ignores him. He glances at the only window which is 20 feet away on the other side of the room.
How'd you get in? The Girl continues examining Frank's wounds. Totally unnerved, the Photographer shouts up the stairs.
Hey, we've got a live one down here. When he spins back, the Girl is gone, vanished into thin air.
Where is he, Sam?
I don't know. He tries to avoid eye contact, but she is determined.
What happened last night? I've tried calling him all day. But his number's no longer in service.
Forget about him, Sarah. Incredulous, she grabs his arm.
I'm not going anywhere until you tell me what's going on.
He left with Henri and he isn't coming back. Ever.
John? No answer. He KNOCKS. Still nothing.
Little late for dessert.
I need to talk to Sarah.
She's not here. Some friends dragged her to a party at Mark Jayne's. John absorbs this news, turns. Annie steps out after him.
I don't usually pry into my daughter's love life, I certainly didn't want my mother in mine -- but Sarah's my youngest and she's special to me.
She's special to me too.
You weren't invited.
Where's Sarah?
She doesn't want to see you. John shoves him aside and heads for the sweeping stairs...
Everybody upstairs! Kevin's going for the beer bong record! The Teens immediately bolt for the stairs. In the giddy exodus, one of them accidentally brushes
onto the white shag rug.
John!
I'm sorry about last night. She pulls away, her relief turning to anger.
No. Not good enough. Sam said you were never coming back. What are you doing here?
I couldn't leave without seeing you one last time. She looks at him, crushed.
So it's true. What's going on? What kind of trouble are you and your dad in?
We're going to be fine.
Damnit! Whatever it is, I'll understand -- just tell me the truth.
The truth is I'm not who you think I am. You need to forget about me. Okay?
Why are you acting like this?
Because it's the only way to keep you safe.
Safe from what? He turns away, shields her from his torment.
Goodbye, Sarah. He doesn't look back as he walks out the door. CAMERA STAYS ON SARAH as she sinks onto the bed and the dogs comfort her.
Drink! Drink! Drink! Drained and numb, John heads the other way and fails to notice the smoke seeping from under the basement door.
billowing from the side of the house. He bolts towards the front door, SCREAMS at a JOCK as he passes.
Call 911! As he races inside...
Sarah!
Where's Sarah?
Went back for Dozer. Another EXPLOSION rocks. A COUPLE of drunk Jocks CHEER. John looks back at the house. The fire has taken hold with incredible speed. The living room curtains are ABLAZE.
It's too late. You can't get through! John ignores him and runs into the inferno.
is fully engulfed. Fearless, he clambers up the flaming steps. His jeans and shirt catch fire. He's almost reached the top when the staircase BREAKS AWAY behind him and DISINTEGRATES in a cloud of embers.
The door rips off its hinges. Through the smoky half-light, Sarah watches as John strides into the room, heroically backlit by flame.
John!
Don't let go of him. I promise I won't let go of you.
You okay? She stares at him, unsure.
You walked through that fire without getting burned. I saw you stop that beam. SIRENS wail in the distance.
I'll explain everything... but not here...  Sarah... please? As they take off into the woods, the IMAGE FREEZES, then REWINDS. John and Sarah kneel in the shadows, then FLY BACKWARDS up through the window and INTO the burning house. REVERSE TO REVEAL the Red-Haired Teen watching playback on his FlipVideo camera, amazed. He runs to the back of the house and finds Mark.
Please don't look at me like that.
I'm sorry. I'm still trying to process everything I saw and I keep coming to the same conclusion -- what you did isn't possible.
It is for me.
Who are you?  For once please tell me the truth. It's the hardest thing he's ever had to do.
My name isn't John. I don't have a name, just a number. 4. In fact, my whole life can be reduced to numbers: like 15 million -- that's how many light years it takes to get from my planet to Earth. 38 -- that's how many towns I've lived in. Or 3,671 -- that's how many days I've been running from an enemy that wants me dead. I lied to you, Sarah, because I lie to everyone. That's how I stay alive. Tears of relief brim as he finally reveals his soul.
I shouldn't be telling you any of this. It's dangerous. Emotionally spent, John leans against a tree. She steps towards him and brushes her hand down his cheek.
I don't care. I just want to be with you.
I want that too. But if I stay you could get hurt. I have to leave to keep you safe. Sarah absorbs the bitter reality, reaches for his hand.
There's something I want to give you first.
So you'll always remember me. With exquisite tenderness they kiss. John's palms shimmer. The intensity of the luminescence builds with their rising passion. They sink to the floor and the light crescendos in an ethereal flash that BLEACHES OUT THE FRAME.
The FBI showed up flashing their badges. Wanna talk to you. As he points to a black SUV that's parked down the street.
Where are we going? Is this about the fire? It was an accident.
We're hunting for one of the guests at your party. He holds up a netbook which flashes with the FlipVideo footage of John's rescue of Sarah. It's posted on YouTube.
Do you know this boy?
Yeah, John Smith. But I didn't invite him.
He's a fugitive. We've been tracking him for some time. Mark smirks, vindicated.
I'll help you find him. He points to Sarah's image on the screen.
He's not at Sarah's, I already checked. And one of my dad's deputies drove by his house -- nada.
He poses a great threat to us. Where else could he be? Mark pulls out his cell phone.
I've got Sarah's cell number, maybe you guys can trace it? The Commander takes the phone and passes it to one of his men in the front. He looks back at Mark.
Tell me everything you know about John Smith.
John's not at the house. Is he here?
No, but he's all over the internet.
I know. He turns back to his SUV. Sam follows.
Those things from Warsaw -- they're coming, aren't they?
Go back inside. This isn't your fight.
The hell it isn't. I'm coming with you. OFF this declaration...
It's Henri.
High school.
Get out now! At that moment, all the POWER in the school DIES and the headlights of an SUV flash across the window. Fear registers in John's eyes as he realizes...
Too late... they're here.
What the hell's in there? He looks back at the Commander who is arming up from the trunk of the SUV. Mark glimpses the arsenal of future-tech machine pistols, double-bladed swords and heavy-duty daggers. He backs away in fearful realization.
You guys aren't FBI. Before he can run, a Mogadorian Soldier grabs him by the neck and constrains him. The Commander pulls
over his broad shoulders. The cartridges are made of crystal and swirl with purple light. Finally, he slips on his trademark red coat and spins towards the school.
who was stalking up the hall behind them! John watches in shock as the Mogadorian keels over and SHATTERS into embers. John swings back to the Teen Girl as she strides forward.
You oughta keep your heroics off the internet.
Who the hell are you?
Number 6. Where's your Cepan?
On his way. Where's yours?
Dead. The Mogs got her four months ago. We had been tracking them. She heads past. John and Sarah follow after her.
Tracking them?
We discovered they plan to attack Earth. The only thing standing in their way is the six of us. The revelation hits John like a wrecking ball.
You know what that means? John nods with new purpose.
The war starts tonight.
First we have to get out of here alive and find the others. Six leads them past the impressive trophy case.
What are we up against?
There's a commander, a bunch of soldiers and two Piken. They'll have all the main entrances covered.
The gym, there's a tunnel under the stage.
It'll take us out to the stadium. Six acknowledges that info with a curt nod. FOOTSTEPS. Six grabs John and Sarah by their arms and yanks them back against the wall. They hold their breath as one of the Mogadorian Soldiers prowls straight past. He stops for a moment, then turns the corner. Sarah looks across at the mirrored trophy case and sees there's no reflection.
We're invisible. John realizes, turns to Six.
You got any other Legacies?
I can control the elements. You?
Lumen and telekinesis. More FOOTSTEPS. John turns and watches in horror as the Mogadorian Commander and a trio of Mogadorian Soldiers sweeps into view. The Commander is holding
He is ashen with fear. Sarah has to catch herself from screaming. John makes a move, but Six holds him in place.
Stay put. They want to draw you out.
He's not dying because of me!
Mark! Linoleum! Now! Mark rips free and hits the deck a second before the trophy case EXPLODES. Shards of glass rip into the Mogadorians and trophies torpedo off the shelves and impale the aliens against the far wall. The Mogadorians SCREAM as they flail. John, Sarah and Six break cover. John wrenches Mark to his feet and they take off running. They dash around the next corner and find
What are you doing with them?
They said they were FBI. That John was a fugitive. What the hell's going on?
You've stumbled into a war. So shut up and keep your head down.
I see age hasn't mellowed your attitude, 6. Mark turns to John, guilt-wracked.
I didn't know they were trying to kill you.  I'm sorry.
This isn't your fault -- it's mine. He offers Mark his hand. Mark shakes it. Suddenly, Bernie begins to GROWL.
What is it, boy? Henri sees where Bernie is staring and realizes...
He's telling us to run! They take off a second before
PUMMEL-RAMS through the wall in a shower of bricks, books and paper. It utters a glass-shattering ROAR. John looks back and sees Bernie bravely holding his ground.
Bernie! He watches as the beagle sprints forward and launches himself at the monster. Bernie clamps onto the Piken's neck. He's hopelessly outmatched and holds on for dear life as the Piken tries to buck him off. Then something amazing happens --
John looks to Henri as the truth of Bernie's origin dawns.
Bernie's a Chimera. He came with us from Lorien.
Guess I wasn't the only one keeping secrets.
Somebody had to watch you when I wasn't around. They exit while Bernie and the Piken continue to battle.
The gym's this way. A projectile HISSES past John's ear and DETONATES a row of lockers -- BOOOOOM! -- it's like an incendiary grenade. The paint blisters off the lockers as they are consumed by FIRE.
sees two Mogadorian Soldiers hauling heavy-duty weapons that use the glass cartridges that glow on their ammo belts. One FIRES another round. John telekinetically RIPS a door off its hinges. It flies forward, blocks the charge and IGNITES. John spins back and SCREAMS --
Go! Go! Go! They take off. John follows and uses his telekinesis to fling cabinets, doors, benches anything he can to block the fiery onslaught. But the rounds are coming too fast and a projectile SMACKS him in the back. It's like being hit by napalm. As FLAMES wash across him, he looks up and snaps on
Keep moving! Henri, Mark, Sarah and Sam race out of view. Then John sees something emerge through the smoky, water-choked haze.
Where's John?
Right behind us. He offers her his hand. She's about to take it when
Bernie and the first Piken crash into the hall. They are still at each other's throats and don't even notice as they steam-roller over the Mogadorian, squashing him like a bug. The creatures SMASH through the opposite wall and out of sight. It's over in a violent blink.
They've blocked it. Use your telekinesis.
We're not leaving without my friends.
Don't you mean the girl? John ignores the jibe and turns back. Six grabs his arm.
I broke the Elders' spell to find you. The Mogs can kill me now. We have to go.
We stay and fight. OFF his determination...
You know how to use one of these?
My dad's the sheriff. He slides two across the floor. The door opens. They swing up to fire but find -- John and Six.
Save it for the Mogs. Let's go!
The door's over here. The tunnel leads out to the stadium. Sarah sweeps back the curtain, revealing a padlocked set of metal doors. John holds up his hand, snaps the lock and whips the chain free. The doors fly open,
spring out of the dark. One tackles Henri while the other blindsides John. Henri struggles until
The BLAST cinders the Mog's head clean off. Henri looks over and sees Mark holding a smoking shotgun and nods his thanks. The second has John pinned when it suddenly ROARS in agony and disintegrates into a shower of sparks, revealing
She sheathes her dagger and helps John up.
Saving your life. My new hobby. Sarah notices a smile of respect flicker between John and Six. PHHHHHHT! PHHHHHHT! PHHHHHHT! -- three Mogadorian knives razor the air. One impales Six in the shoulder. She slumps at John's feet. Henri opens FIRE on the
lurches into the mouth of the tunnel. Without a second's hesitation, Sam swings up his gun and BLASTS it. Mark looks at him in shock as they race through the embers. Sam shrugs.
I play a lot of Xbox.
Don't stop! Get to the woods! She nods and exits with the others. John and Henri head onto the field after them when
nobly shoves John out of the way and is plucked into the Piken's jaws. The creature shakes him like a rag doll and flings him 50 feet down the field. John watches, anguished, as Henri lands in a heap.
Nooooooooooooooooooooooooo! The Piken pivots, turns its crimson eyes on John. It almost seems to smirk. Its fangs are stained with Henri's blood. John's face hardens into a mask of rage.
Henri. Henri GROANS as John cradles his head. His coat is soaked with blood and his torso is horribly mauled. John tries to drag him to his feet.
Come on, taillights in five.
I won't be coming with you this time. Save yourself.
We go together! Henri smiles, grateful, but at that moment
Find the others. His voice is a GRAVELLED WHISPER.
Your life is my life... always. His eyes flutter closed and he slips from John's grip. Anguished, John doesn't notice his pendant momentarily flicker with a radiant blue light. He angrily spins to face
Number 4. Three Loric pendants dangle from the Commander's belt like mocking trophies.
Your Cepan saved you on Lorien. The Commander's voice hisses with cruel certainty. He wrenches his sword from Henri's corpse.
But this moment was inevitable. The blade shimmers with silver flame as he raises it. John's eyes narrow as the sword sweeps towards him. This is the moment his adolescence officially ends. This is the moment when a warrior is born. ANGLE ON BLADE as it SHATTERS into a million pieces, which flutter to the ground like glittering confetti. John stares at the alien with calm confidence.
Nothing is inevitable.
Oh my God... John. Before anyone can stop her, she takes off running, sprinting for the stadium.
John! She charges across the broiled expanse, hoping against hope. Then she sees John, lying motionless and naked, his clothes completely burned away. She stops, puts her hand to her mouth to stifle a sob, when he COUGHS and stirs.
John! Ash swirls like snow as she races to his side. They wrap each other in their arms. Neither wanting to ever let go.
Sorry, Girl Scout first aid didn't cover extraterrestrial dagger wounds. Six smiles, grateful.
Thanks.
The Sheriff's Department is starting to put up roadblocks. You guys better get moving. Six and Sarah join them.
You good to go?
Don't worry about me. John nods to Sam.
Sam, ride with Six.
We don't need baggage. Sam steps in front of her, determined.
I have to find out if the Mogs took my dad. Six turns to John, who is not bending, then glares at Sam.
You slow us down, I'll shoot you myself. Sarah looks at John, tries to rein in her emotions.
I want to come too.
You need to stay here.
Why?
You could have died last night. I'm not putting you in danger again. Mark's promised to look after you.
I don't want to say goodbye.
I'll come back for you.
When?
When it's safe. She bows her head, anguished. He gently lifts her chin.
Where I'm from, we only give our heart to one person. I've given mine to you.
limps into view. Blood mats his fur and his face is scratched but he's alive. OFF John's relief...
This is the first town I've left without Henri. The first one I have a reason to come back to. John and Sarah hold each other's gaze, desperately trying to brand the image of their faces onto their memories.
He warned me the pain would be unbearable if I left her. He was right.
But I don't regret it. The pain reminds me what's at stake. A dust trail plumes as the bikes power into view.
We must find the others and face our enemy together. I'm not sure how we can stop them. But nothing is inevitable. I know that now. Thunderheads darken the horizon.
I am Number 4. His eyes are fearless and his face is undaunted by the battles yet to be fought. He's ready to face a future unmapped and uncharted. Ready.
