 I walked with a zombie. (laughs a little, self consciously) It does seem an odd thing to say. Had anyone said that to me a year ago, I'm not at all sure I would have known what a Zombie was. I might have had some notion -- that they were strange and frightening, and perhaps a little funny.  But I have walked with a Zombie
 It all began in such an ordinary way --
 I'd just finished working on a case in Ottawa...a little boy who'd broken both legs.  It was one of those cases with traction frames and constant care, nicely complicate with a pair of hysterical parents.  When he was all well I had to find another job. That's a nurse's life for you. I went to the Registry.
 They gave me an address in the business district.  I went there.
You're single?
Yes.
Where were you trained?
At the Memorial Hospital -- here in Ottawa.
 This last question's a little irregular, Miss Connell.  I don't quite know how to put it.
Do you believe in witchcraft?
 They didn't teach it at Memorial Hospital.  I had my suspicions, though, about the Directress of Training.
 Very well.  That means that you have met all Mr. Holland's requirements.  Now, as to salary -- it's quite good -- two hundred dollars a month.
 That is good.  But I'd like to know more about the case.
I'm afraid I'm not able to tell you much. Only that the patient is a young woman -- the wife of a Mr. Paul Holland with whom we do considerable business.
That will mean another interview, won't it?
No, this is quite final.  You see, Mr. Holland is a sugar planter.  He lives in St. Sebastian Island in the West Indies.
The West Indies?
 A year's contract -- a trip with all expenses paid -- that's not so bad, you know.
But it's so far away...
That's rather nice, isn't it?
 Sit under a palm tree -- go swimming -- take sun baths.  Just like a holiday...
Palm trees --
 Boats grow smaller to reach out-of the-way ports.  Judging by the boats that took me to St. Sebastian -- it's far away and hard to get to. First, there was the great liner to Havana -- then a smaller steamer to Port au Prince -- a freighter to Gonave -- and from Gonave, one of the little island trading schooners that carry sugar and sisal, sponges and salt all over the Caribbean.
 The man for whom I'd come to work -- Mr. Holland -- boarded the schooner at Gonave.  He was pointed out to me, and he must have known who I was -- yet he never spoke to me. He seemed quiet and aloof. Sometimes I wondered how we'd get on -- but there wasn't really time for to think about it -- there was so much to see.  I loved the trip.
I smelled the spicy smells coming from the islands -- I looked at those great glowing stars -- and I felt the warm wind on my cheeks and I breathed deep and every bit of me inside myself said, "How beautiful --"
It is not beautiful.
 You read my thoughts, Mr. Holland.
It's easy enough to read the thoughts of a newcomer. Everything seems beautiful because you don't understand.  Those flying fish -- they are not leaping for joy. They're jumping in terror.  Bigger fish want to eat them. That luminous water -- it takes its gleam from millions of tiny dead bodies. It's the glitter of putrescence.  There's no beauty here -- it's death and decay.
You can't really believe that.
 Everything good dies here -- even the stars.
 It was strange to have him break in on my thoughts that way.  There was cruelty and hardness in his voice. Yet -- something about him I liked -- something clean and honest --  but hurt -- badly hurt.
How much is this?
 You're beginning to learn.
Times gone, Fort Holland was a fort...now, no longer.  The Holland's are a most old family, miss.  They brought the colored people to the island-- the colored folks and Ti-Misery.
Ti-Misery?  What's that?
A man, miss -- an old man who lives in the garden at Fort Holland - with arrows stuck in him and a sorrowful, weeping look on his black face.
 Alive?
 No, miss.  He's just as he was in the beginning -- on the front part of an enormous boat.
 You mean a figurehead.
 If you say, miss.  And the enormous boat brought the long-ago Fathers and the long-ago Mothers of us all - chained down to the deep side floor.
 But they came to a beautiful place, didn't they?
 If you say, miss.  If you say.
Miss Connell -- it's dinner.
Thank you, Clement.
Miss Connell -- I'm Wesley Rand. Paul asked me to introduce myself.
 It seems we are having dinner by ourselves, Miss Connell.  But I may as well introduce everyone to you, anyway. (points to the chair at the head of the table) There -- in the master's chair, sits the master -- my half-brother Paul Holland.  But you've already met him.
Yes -- on the boat.
And that chair -- (indicates the chair drawn back against the wall) is the particular property of Mrs. Rand -- mother to both of us and much too good for either of us. Too wise, in fact, to live under the same roof. She prefers the village dispensary.
 Is she a doctor?
No -- she just runs the place. She's everything else -- amazing woman, mother.  You'll like her.
I like her already.
And that --  is my chair.  And this -- (draws back a chair for Betsy) is Miss Connell -- who is beautiful.
Thank you.  But who sits there? (indicating a chair at her left)
My brother's wife.
 Here, here, this isn't at all cozy -- it makes me seem aloof and I'm anything but that.
 We had a lovely dinner.  Somehow as we sat there, I couldn't help thinking of all the stories I had read in the magazines, stories in which people had dinner on a terrace with moonlight flooding a tropical garden.  It seemed a little unreal.  -- Then we had coffee.
-- But, you're an American?
I went to school in Buffalo.  Paul went to school in England.
I wondered about your different accents.  I'm still wondering about your names -- Rand and Holland.
 We're half-brothers.  Paul is mother's first child.  When his father died, she married my father. Dr. Rand, the missionary.  And you know what they say about missionaries' children.
 The jungle drums -- mysterious - eerie.
That's a work drum at the sugar mill. St. Sebastian's version of the factory whistle.
As a matter of fact, it means the sugar syrup is ready to be poured off.  You'll have to excuse me.
Of course.  It's been nice of you to spend this much time with me.
 Don't worry.  I wasn't missed.  The only important man here is the owner.
Mr. Holland?
Yes, the redoubtable Paul.  He has the plantation, and I, as you must have noticed, have all the charm.
I don't know.  He spoke to me last night on the boat. I liked him very much.
 Ah, yes, our Paul, strong and silent and very sad -- quite the Byronic character. Perhaps I ought to cultivate it.
 Perhaps you ought to get on to the mill.
 It'll wait.
 I was just going to the mill.  Good night, Miss Connell.
 Have the servants made you comfortable?
Yes, thank you.
 It seems very nice, Clement.  I'll take it to Mrs. Holland.
Can't I take it for you?
 No, thank you.  Tomorrow's time enough for you to begin work.
Jessica.
 Mrs. Holland!  Mrs. Holland!
 Mrs. Holland?
Mrs. Holland?
 Mrs. Holland -- I didn't mean to get you up --
 Mrs. Holland -- ?
Jessica!
Take Mrs. Holland to her room.
 Come, Miss Jessica, come with Alma.
 I heard someone crying -- a woman --
A woman crying?  No one's been crying here.
Mr. Paul -- yes, there was crying tonight. It was Alma.  Her sister was brought a'birthing.
 Thank you, Clement.
 Clement...
I'm going to stay with Miss Jessica -- in case the new Miss takes to roaming again.
 Don't you go crying anymore -- that's what frightened Miss Betsy.
Well, she didn't soothe me any -- hollering around in the tower!
Shhh!
Why was the maid crying?
I'm not sure I can make you understand. (gestures toward the fountain statue) You know what this is?
A figure of St. Sebastian.
Yes.  But it was once the figurehead of a slave ship.  That's where our people came from -- from the misery and pain of slavery. For generations they found life a burden. That's why they still weep when a child is born -- and make merry at a burial.
I've told you, Miss Connell, this is a sad place.
Good morning, miss.
 Thank you for waking me.
I didn't want to frighten you out of your sleep, Miss.  That's why I touched you farthest from your heart.
Don't get up, Miss.  I brought your breakfast.  Just like I do for Miss Jessica.
But I'm Miss Jessica's nurse, Alma. You don't have to do that for me.
I know, miss.  But I like to do it. I like to tend for Miss Jessica and I want to tend for you.  You settle right back, now, and I'll mix you your coffee.
 Thank you, Alma.
 Miss Jessica used to say this is the only way for a lady to break her fast -- in bed, with a lacy cushion to bank her head up. If you'd only seen her, Miss Connell. She looked so pretty.
She must have been beautiful.  What happened to her, Alma?
She was very sick and then she went mindless, Miss.
 We'll see if we can't make her well, Alma, you and I.
I do my best.  Every day I dress her just as beautifully as if she was well.  It's just like dressing a great, big doll.
What's this?
A puff-up, I call it.  But Miss Jessica always says "brioche."
Looks like an awful lot of breakfast -- I don't know whether I'll be able to get away with it.
I made it clear in my letter to the company.  This is not a position for a frightened girl.
 I am not a frightened girl.
That's hard to believe, after what happened last night.
 If I were as timid as you seem to think, Mr. Holland, I wouldn't have gone into the tower in the first place.
And what is so alarming about the tower, Miss Connell?
 Nothing -- really.  But you must admit it's an eerie sort of place -- so dark --
 Surely nurses aren't afraid of the dark?
 Of course not!
But frankly, it was something of a shock to see my patient that way, for the first time.  No one had told me Mrs. Holland was a mental case.
A mental case?
I'm sorry...
 Why should you be?  My wife is a mental case.  Please keep that in mind, Miss Connell -- particularly when some of the foolish people of this island start talking to you about Zombies.
You will find slave superstition a contagious thing.  Some people let it get the better of them. (breaks off and looks at her intently) I don't think you will.
No.
Come along.  I'll introduce you to Dr. Maxwell and your patient.
I'm afraid it won't be easy for me to explain Mrs. Holland's illness, Miss Connell.  We have our own diseases here.  But, if you'll sit down -- 
To put it simply:  Mrs. Holland had one of those high fevers often found with our tropical maladies.  We might say that portions of the spinal cord and certain lobes of the mind were burned out by this fever.  The result is what you see -- a woman bereft of will power, unable to speak or even to act by herself.  She will obey simple commands.
Does she suffer?
I don't know.  I prefer to think of her as a sleepwalker who can never be awakened -- feeling nothing, knowing nothing.
There's very little we can do except keep her physically comfortable -- light diet -- some exercise --
She can never be cured?
I've never heard of a cure.
Is this disease common in the tropics?
Fortunately, not.  This is my first experience with it as a physician. But I have seen half-witted field hands -- whom the other peasants call Zombies.  I am sure they suffer from a similar destruction of spinal nerves as the result of high fever.
Could you give me the details of treatment and diet?
I prepared these for you last night, Miss Connell.
 Thank you.
I'll be by in a day or so, Miss Connell, and see how you are getting on.
You didn't find your patient so frightening in the daylight, did you?
Mrs. Holland must have been beautiful ---
 Many people thought her beautiful.
Tell me, Miss Connell. Do you consider yourself pretty?
I suppose so.  Yes.
And charming?
I've never given it much thought.
Don't.  It will save you a great deal of trouble and other people a great  unhappiness.
Betsy!
Where do you think you're going?
It's my day off.
But what in the world can you do with a day off in St. Sebastian?
 I was just beginning to wonder. Aren't there shops, restaurants and things?
Well -- and things -- might be a better description of what you'll find.  I'd better come along and show you the town.
 But don't you have to work?
 By a curious coincidence, it's my day off, too.
 Bring me another, Ti-Joseph.  I have to keep the lady entertained.
It must be hard work entertaining me if it requires six ounces of rum.
What in the world are you talking about?  Six ounces -- ?
Higher mathematics.  Two ounces to a drink -- three drinks, six ounces.
How do you know there's two ounces in a drink?
I'm a nurse.  I always watch people when they pour something.  I watched Ti-Joseph and it was exactly two ounces.
 There was a family that lived on the isle Of Saint Sebastian a long, long while The head of the family was a Holland man And the younger brother, his name was Rand
Listen, did I tell you that story about the little mule at the plantation -- the little mule and Clement?  Let me tell you.  It's one of the funniest stories --
 Wait. I want to listen.
The Holland man, he kept in a tower A wife as pretty as a big white flower She saw the brother and she stole his heart...
Ti-Malice trip up my tongue -- What do you wish trouble on me for -- You saw Mister Rand go in there. Why don't you tell me?
Apologize -- that's what I'll do. Creep in just like a little fox and warm myself in his heart. (placatingly but to himself) Good Mister Rand!
 That's carrying free speech a little too far!  I wouldn't have listened, Wes, if I had realized --
 Mr. Rand?
I've come to apologize.
 All right.
 Just an old song I picked up somewhere. Don't know who did make it up.
 All right. All right.
Some of these singers on this island, they'd tattle-tale on anybody.  Believe me, Mister Rand, I never would sing that song if I'd known you were with a lady.
 Get out of here!
Don't let it bother you so, Wes.
Did you hear what he sang?
Shocked?
 I wish I hadn't heard --
Why?  Everybody else knows it. Paul saw to that.  Sometimes I think he planned the whole thing from the beginning -- just to watch me squirm.
 That doesn't sound like him.
That's right -- he's playing the noble husband for you, isn't he? That won't last long.
I'd like to go now, Rand.  Would you mind taking me home?
 One of these days he'll start on you, the way he did on her.  "You think life's beautiful, don't you, Jessica?  You think you're beautiful, don't you, Jessica?"  What he could do to that word "beautiful." That's Paul's great weapon -- words.  He uses them the way other men use their fists.
 She saw the brother and she stole his heart And that's how the badness and the trouble start Ah woe, ah me Shame and sorrow for the fam-i-ly
Wes.  Wesley -- it's time we were starting home.
The wife and the brother, they want to go, But the Holland man, he tell them "no."
The wife fall down and the evil came And it burned her mind in the fever flame.
Please, Wes -- we've got to get back to Fort Holland.
Her eyes are empty and she cannot talk And a nurse has come to make her walk. The brothers are lonely and the nurse is young And now you must see that my song is sung.
 Ah, woe, Ah me Shame --
I think you need some help.
I'm afraid so.
Ti-Joseph?
Ti-Joseph, get Mr. Rand on to his mule, please, and start him for home.
Yes, ma'am.
 But he's in no condition to ride -- I don't think he can even sit in the saddle.
Don't worry about a sugar planter. Give him a mule and he'll ride to his own funeral.
Hey, boy!  Bring up that mule -- that white mule, boy.
I really intended going out to the Fort and meeting you long before this, Miss Connell.  I'm Mrs. Rand -- Wesley's mother.
 Oh, Mrs. Rand --
 Come, come, don't tell me how sorry you are that I should meet you this way.  I'm even a little glad that Wesley's difficulty brought us together.
Believe me, Mrs. Rand, he doesn't do this often. This is the first time I've seen him --
Nonsense, child!  I know Wesley's been drinking too much lately.  I know a great deal more about what goes on at Fort Holland than you'd think.  I know all about you -- that you're a nice girl, competent and kind to Jessica.  The Fort needs a girl like you.  But now we've got to get you back there.  I'll walk you back and stay over night.  It'll be a nice change for me.
Thank you, Mrs. Rand.  I think you're every bit as nice as Wes says you are.
So -- he says I'm nice.  He's a nice boy, too, Miss Connell, a very nice boy.  But I'm worried about his drinking.
You could do me a great favor.
 I'd love to.
Use your influence with Paul.  Ask him to take that whiskey decanter off the dinner table.
 I've no influence with Mr. Holland.
Try it -- you may have more influence than you think.
 No. It isn't a drought, Bayard. The rains are just a little late, that's all.
I've seen the drought before, Mr. Holland. The cane's too dry -- it's dangerous that way -- it's the drought.
Good morning, Miss Connell.
Good morning.
I heard about your little misadventure yesterday, Miss Connell.  On your first "day off," too.
Well, I had a good time up to a point.
 Wesley can be very entertaining.
 Yes, he can.  But I've been wondering -- you know if you could leave the whisky decanter off the table --
It's always stood there, Miss Connell.  I can remember it in my grandfather's time and my father's. I'm afraid it will have to remain.
But for Wes -- it must be a temptation to him.
I've no sympathy with people who can't resist temptation.
Still, I feel you should remove the decanter.  Wes is not an alcoholic yet, Mr. Holland. But as a nurse I can tell you that it won't be long before he is.
 I'm afraid the decanter will have to stay where it is.  I engaged you, Miss Connell, to take care of my wife, not my brother.
You don't seem very disturbed by it.  I've always thought Voodoo was something to be scared of: the drums sounded in the hills and everybody was frightened.
I'm afraid it's not very frightening.  They have their songs and dances and carry on and finally, as I understand it, one of the gods comes down and speaks through one of the people.
For some reason, they always seem to pick a night like this.  This wind even sets me on edge.
Clement.
You've forgotten the decanter.
I think from now on, Wes, we'll try serving dinner without it.
Oh, I see.  The lord of the manor has decided to abolish one of the tribal customs.
An economy move, I suppose.  Or, perhaps, Paul, you decided on a finer moral standard for our happy little household, now that Miss Connell is with us.
What are you trying to do, impress her?
Let's drop it now, Wes.  We can talk about it later if you want.
But I want to talk now.  Why have you decided to take the whiskey off the table?  What's behind it?  What nice, sadistic little plot is brewing this time, Paul?
 Let's not discuss it, Wes.
 Let's not quarrel before the ladies.  Let's be reserved and gentlemanly.  You were so gentlemanly when you drove Jessica insane -- so polite when you made her into that!
Miss Connell, I think it would be best if I had Clement bring the rest of your dinner to your room.
I heard you playing.
 I often do.
 I know what you went through tonight.  I kept thinking of what you said: that all good things died here, violently.
Why did you come in here?
I don't know.  I wanted to help you. And now that I'm here, I don't know how.
 You have helped me.  I want you to know I'm sorry I brought you here. When I thought of a nurse, I thought of someone hard and impersonal.
 I love Fort Holland.
What you saw tonight -- two brothers at each other's throat and a woman driven mad by her own husband?  Do you love that?
You didn't drive her mad.
Didn't I?  I don't know.  That's the simple truth of it.  I don't know.
Before Jessica was taken ill, there was a scene.  An ugly scene.  I told her I wouldn't let her go, that I'd hold her by force if necessary.
You wouldn't understand that kind of love.  You never knew Jessica as she was.  Beautiful, restless, willful -- living in a world with room for nothing but her own image and her own desires.
She promised so much -- warmth and sweetness...she promised --
I think it may be best for all of us not to discuss this again. Thank you -- I know you meant to be kind.
 I don't know how their own love is revealed to other women -- maybe in their sweethearts' arms -- I don't know.  To me it came that night after Paul Holland almost thrust me from the room, and certainly thrust me from his life. I said to myself, "I love him."  And even as I said it, I knew he still loved his wife. Then because I loved him, I felt I had to restore her to him -- to make her what she had been before -- to make him happy.
All that you say comes down to the same thing.  You are asking me to pass a sentence of life or death on my own wife.
Insulin shock treatment is an extreme measure, Mr. Holland. But -- as Miss Connell pointed out when she suggested it -- this is an extreme case.
 You admit that it is terribly dangerous. Why do you advise it?
I've worked with it.  I've seen cures. It is at least a hope.
It's the very danger itself that makes the cure possible, Mr. Holland.  The insulin produces a state of coma, a stupor.  The patient is revived from the coma by a violent overwhelming nerve shock. That nerve shock can kill -- but it can also restore the damaged mind.
I don't know -- I don't know--
 It is a hard decision to make -- but yours is only a technical responsibility...
Technical responsibility, real responsibility -- what difference does it make?  Jessica lives -- or she dies. That's what we're talking about!
You are wrong, Mr. Holland.
It is not a question of life or death.  Your wife is not living. She is in a world that is empty of joy or meaning.  We have a chance to give her life back to her.
 Well?
She is alive, Mr. Holland -- that's all.
 Don't take it to heart, Betsy.
I imagined this so differently...
I've been waiting here for hours, trying to imagine Jessica well again -- wondering what I'd feel. I could see Jessica as she used to be, I could hear her say in that sweet mocking voice, "Paul, darling..."  The whole thing beginning all over again...
 And instead,  I came -- bringing you nothing.
 Instead -- you come, with sympathy, Betsy, and a generous heart. Don't forget that.  Don't call it nothing.
Very sad, very sweet.  The noble husband and the noble nurse comforting each other -- because the patient still lives.  I've been imagining too, Paul.  You didn't think of that, did you?  I saw Jessica coming across the garden, I heard her voice.
I suppose not.
Things so bad, nobody can help -- not even Doctor Maxwell.
Doctors and nurses can only do so much, Alma.  They can't cure everything.
Doctors that are people can't cure everything.
 What do you mean -- "doctors that are people"?
 There are other doctors...Yes, other doctors...Better doctors...
Where?
At the Houmfort.
 That's nonsense, Alma.
They even cure nonsense, Miss Betsy.  Mama Rose was mindless.  I was at the Houmfort when the Houngan brought her mind back.
You mean Mama Rose was like Mrs. Holland?
No.  She was mindless but not like Miss Jessica.  But the Houngan cured her.
Are you trying to tell me that the Houngan -- the voodoo priest -- could cure Mrs. Holland?
Yes, Miss Betsy.  I mean that.  The Houngan will speak to the rada drums and the drums will speak to Shango and Damballa.
 Better doctors --
Ti-Peter, how do you ever expect to get to Heaven with one foot in the voodoo Houmfort and the other in the Baptist church?
 Some of this native nonsense. The Houngan has his prescription and Dr. Maxwell and I have ours.
You've never said anything about voodoo before, Mrs. Rand.
Haven't I?  I suppose I take it for granted. It's just part of everyday life here.
You don't believe in it?
A missionary's widow?  It isn't very likely, is it?
I don't mean believe, like believing in a religion.  I mean, do you believe it has power?  Do you think it could heal a sick person?
 Frankly, my dear, I didn't expect anything like this from a nice level-headed girl.  What are you driving at?
I heard the servants talking about someone called Mama Rose. They said she had been "mindless"...
Her son drowned.  She brooded until her mind was affected. All the Houngan did was coax her out of it with a little practical psychology.
Put the god in her! Put the god in her!
Make him rich, Shango!  Make him rich!
Damballa!  Damballa!  Damballa! Damballa!
 Where are my people?  Let them bring me the rice cakes -- let them dance and be happy --
 Damballa!  Damballa!
Damballa -- my son don't take care of me.
Damballa! This woman is sick.
 Mrs. Rand.
Wait. Don't draw any conclusions. Let me explain.
But, Mrs. Rand --
I knew you'd come. And I knew I'd have to come up here and talk to you. I couldn't let you go back without any word. I came to tell you again -- Jessica cannot be cured.
But how did you get here? What are you doing here?
I asked you to let me explain. It's a long story.  And not an easy one --
-- and when my husband died I felt helpless. They disobeyed me -- things went from bad to worse. All my husband's dreams of good health, good sanitation, good morals for these sweet and gentle people seemed to die with him.  Then, almost accidentally, I discovered the secret of how to deal with them. There was a girl with a baby -- again and again I begged her to boil the drinking water. She never would. Then I told her the god, Shango, would be pleased and kill the evil spirits in the water if she boiled it. She boiled the water from then on.
But you didn't have to come up here.
Perhaps not.  But I did come here and I found it was so simple to let the gods speak through me. Once started, it seemed such an easy way to do good.  I should have known there was no easy way to do good, Betsy.
Betsy!  Get her away -- back to the Fort!  Do as I say -- they won't hurt you.
Trouble.  Bad trouble.  Let her go.
Where have you been, Miss Connell?
 I wanted to help you.
Help me? How?
I took Mrs. Holland to the Houmfort.  I thought they might cure her.
You have deliberately endangered Mrs. Holland's life.  There's no telling what you may have started with this insanity.  Why did you do it?
 I told you.
Because you wanted to give my wife back to me?  Why should that mean anything to you?
 You know why.  You saw it the other night at the piano.  You turned away from me.
 What I saw the other night, I didn't dare believe, Betsy --
I thought I was looking at a woman who loved me and had compassion for me.  Yet you made that trip to the Houmfort to bring Jessica back to me --
Yes.
You think I love Jessica and want her back. It is like you to think that -- clean, decent thinking.
 She was beautiful.
I hated her.
Her selfishness made her empty and dead.  She was a possession, a beautiful possession to own and hold -- but I never had a moment's peace or happiness with her.
Betsy --
I should never have brought you here.
There's no happiness for me anywhere else --
 Paul, I don't want you to be alone, unhappy --
 I may prefer it that way.
But I assure you, Father Walters, Miss Connell had no idea of the consequences when she went there.
Paul, we're not trying to blame Miss Connell.  It isn't a question of blame.  It's a question of what we are to do with Jessica.  The commissioner is very concerned.
It has become a serious problem. There's so much gossip, rumor and agitation about the whole thing.
I know.  We've felt it at the mill. The men could hardly keep their minds on their work.
Well, Jeffries, why come to us about it?  Why don't you go up to the Houmfort and put a stop to the drumming and dancing -- that's what causes all the trouble.
 No.  You're quite wrong.  Right here's the seat of the trouble. Mrs. Holland has become an object of speculation and religious interest to these people.  It's revived all their old superstitions -- Zombies -- and that sort of nonsense.
I wouldn't worry too much, Commissioner.  It'll pass.  We've had this sort of thing before.
This is something else.  They're curious.  Curiosity and religious fervor make a strange and explosive mixture.
I'm quite sure nothing will happen, Doctor.
If I were as sure as you, Mrs. Rand, we wouldn't be here.  I'll tell you quite bluntly: for the peace of the island and possibly for her own safety, we've come to ask you to send Mrs. Holland away to St. Thomas.
To the asylum?
I believe there's a kinder name for it, Wesley. At St. Thomas, it's called the Institute for Mental Therapy.
 It doesn't matter what you call it. I can tell you right now Jessica isn't going!
Fortunately, Wesley, this isn't a matter for your decision.
You mean to say Paul can send her away -- that he can hand her over to strangers -- who'll shut her up - maybe mistreat her?  He hasn't that right!
 Wesley!
I am afraid, Wesley, he has that right.  And I will have to urge him to use it.
I tell you he hasn't and he wouldn't dare use it if he had.
Why?
Because he drove Jessica insane -- deliberately -- coldly!
That could be a serious accusation, Rand, if it weren't a foolish one.
Foolish?  Tell them how foolish it is, Paul -- tell them!
 My guilt in this matter, if any, Wesley, is not the subject of this discussion.
But it is, Paul!  Because that's why you won't dare send Jessica away!
I still can't believe it Paul -- that you wouldn't say a word in your own defense.
I have no defense.  So far as I know -- it is true.
You can't believe that.  You don't know what viciousness it would take to drive a person mad.  You're not vicious or cruel, Paul.
How do you know I'm not?  I was cruel to Jessica.  When I got to know her -- when I found out how empty and ungenerous she was, there was something about her -- something smooth and false -- that made we want to hurt her.
I can understand that.  Everyone feels that way about someone.
No.  It's not just how I felt toward Jessica.  I've been cruel to even you.
The first night I saw you -- you were looking at the sea.  You were enchanted -- and I had to break that enchantment.  Do you understand, Betsy -- I had to break it!
You wanted to warn me...
 The night you came to me in this room -- to comfort me, to help me -- I turned you away.
Don't, Paul -- don't doubt yourself -- don't make me doubt you.
I remember words I said to Jessica - words mixed like to poison -- to hurt her, to madden her.
 That's past -- that's over and done with...
I want you to be safe, Betsy.  I want to know you're away from this place -- home again, where nothing can harm you -- nothing and no one.
You want that?
Yes.
Would you like to see the paper, Mrs. Rand?  This is our newest one.
Thank you , Clement!
You're just in time.  Will you join me in the Sunday paper?
Considering that the paper is three months old and this isn't Sunday -- no thank you.
 I guess I'll wait until I'm home, Mrs. Rand.
 That's a long wait...
I'm afraid not.  Betsy's leaving us, Mother.
She's decided to go on the next boat.
Why, Betsy -- we can't lose you. You mean too much to us here.
That's sweet of you, Mrs. Rand.
Betsy feels there is nothing she can do for Jessica...
Dr. Maxwell -- it's nice to see you.
 Dr. Maxwell has very unpleasant news for us.
 An accident at the mill?
No -- it's about Mrs. Holland.  A result of our discussion the other day, I'm afraid.
What about her?
In view of all the circumstances, the commissioner has decided on a legal investigation.
Investigation of what?
Of the nature of Mrs. Holland's illness.  And, of course, the events which led up to it.
In other words, I'm on trial.
I did everything I could to forestall this, Paul.  I don't think there's any question of your innocence in the matter.  But there's been too much talk.  The thing's out of hand.
Maybe it's better this way, Mother. I'm glad you're going home, Betsy -- you'll be out of the mess.
But she isn't.  She's been subpoenaed.
Miss Connell's testimony will be very important.
 I would have stayed anyway, Dr. Maxwell.
We're all in it.  There won't be a shred of pride or decency left for any of use.  Say something, Paul!  You've always been good with words.  Put some together, now, and tell us that you're not responsible -- that every damnable bit of it doesn't rest squarely on your shoulders!
You're wrong, Wesley.  The guilt is mine -- all of it.
 Are you going to lie for him, Mother?
Betsy, tell them about the Houmfort.  Tell them what you saw there.
 Mrs. Rand...
You must, Betsy. They'll have to believe you.
 Mrs. Rand was at the Houmfort that night.  But there's nothing wrong with that.  She's gone there for years -- trying to take care of those people,  to help them.
What do you mean?
I don't understand...
I think I do.  I've often talked a little voodoo to get medicine down a patient's throat.
It's more than that, Doctor.  I've entered into their ceremonies - pretended to be possessed by their gods...
But what I did to Jessica was worse than that.  It was when she going away with Wesley.  There was that horrible scene.
You thought she loved you, didn't you?  She didn't.  She didn't love anyone except herself  -- her reflection in the mirror, the look she could bring into a man's eyes.
That isn't true.  You never understood her.
 That night, I went to the Houmfort. I kept seeing Jessica's face -- smiling -- smiling because two men hated each other -- because she was beautiful enough to take my family in her hands and break it apart. The drums seemed to be beating in my head.  The chanting -- the lights --  everything blurred together.  And then I heard a voice, speaking in a sudden silence.  My voice.  I was possessed.  I said that the woman at Fort Holland was evil and that the Houngan must maker her a Zombie.
And what happened then, Mrs. Rand?
 I hated myself.  I kept saying to myself over and over again that these people had no power; they had no strange drugs; that there is no such thing as a Zombie.
Ah -- that's where reason took hold.
Yes, I said it, and I made myself believe it. But when I got here, Jessica was already raging with fever.
Two things had happened, Mrs. Rand. One was that your daughter-in-law had been taken ill with a fever. The other thing -- completely disconnected -- was that you had wished her ill, because she had hurt your sons.
 But I had no thought of harming her.  It wasn't I...
You were possessed.  That is true -- possessed by your subconscious mind.  You were in the Houmfort, surrounded by their symbols.  To them, nothing worse can happen to a person than to be made into a Zombie.  Your subconscious mind used their own words for evil.
Dr. Maxwell is right, Mother.
 Emotion tricks all of us, Mrs. Rand.  And you are a woman with a very strong conscience.  That conscience has been tormenting you. The rest is coincidence.  There is no such thing as a Zombie.  The dead do not come back to life. Death is final.
Jessica!
Jessica!  Jessica!
The Houmfort -- they're trying to get her back there.
Come with me, Jessica.
 Paul...Paul...
You!  What are you doing here?
Get out of here.
 Get out of here --
 Carre-Four!
Carre-Four.  Go back.
Paul!
Let him go.  Don't touch him, don't try to stop him!
Betsy, can I talk to you a minute?
 Of course, Wes.
Does she suffer?  Does she know what she is?
I don't know.  I once asked Dr. Maxwell the same question.  He said he thought she was like a sleepwalker who would never waken.
She hated sleep.  She used to say it was a thief -- stealing away her life, an hour at a time...
 Not to a nurse.  Sleep is a cure.
 In fact, I'm prescribing sleep for you right now.
Be a good patient.  Take these and go to bed.
 She's dead.  The dead ought to be buried.
 But she's not dead, Wes.
 You know what she is!  That's death -- no mind, no senses -- no love, no hate, no feeling -- nothing!
Please, Wes, do as I ask.  You must rest, you must sleep.
 She should have rest.  She shouldn't have to walk and walk, in that black emptiness.  You could set her free. You could give her rest.  You could give her rest.
Don't think of it, Wes.  I couldn't do that.
You could do it.  You have drugs -- it would be so quick -- a single injection.  If you won't do it for her sake, do it for Paul.
No, Wes.
Jessica was never any good for Paul.  You will be, you are.  And Mother -- seeing Jessica day after day -- never able to escape, never able to forget.  Please, Betsy -- it's only merciful.
 Her heart beats, Wes.  She breathes.  That's life -- I once took an oath to guard life.
I know.  I shouldn't have asked it.
 It was a sad time at Fort Holland. Mother Rand was completely broken by the tragedy. But she's a woman of courage. She's begun to build up her life again at St. Sebastian -- It's a good life and a full one.  As for Paul and me -- it wasn't a simple problem for either of us.
Sorry to keep you waiting, darling! I thought I'd never get away. Invoices and stock lists piling up all day long.  The balmy tropics were never like this.
 I wouldn't have minded waiting.  I never mind waiting for you -- only we're dining with the Wilkins.  I don't want it said all over Ottowa that the Hollands are always late.
