STEPHEN I am neither Christian...nor atheist. I am not Jewish or Muslim. What I believe...my religion is called the constitution... A pause. Stephen snaps his fingers in the mic. We hear the distinct sound of feedback getting louder until it stops.
Hang on...let me open these up.... We wait as Stephen looks around. He looks at stage hands who are busy working. No one pays any attention to him as he stands there. This isn't awkward for Stephen, THIS IS ROUTINE. DIRECTOR Okay...
I will defend till my dying breath your right to worship whatever god you believe in...
STEPHEN If I'm not religious enough for you, don't vote for me. To the Director.
You got it?
If I'm not experienced enough don't vote for me. If I'm not...
Okay got it, thanks.
Thanks. We'll need these monitors turned up a bit...it's a big space and he wants to be able to hear. STAGE MANAGER You got it.
Also we'll need these podiums put on a riser as we agreed to in the pre-conditions. You're a few inches short and it makes it harder for the Governor to read his notes.
No I know, we just got those specs last night and they're building a piece to go under...
Great, thanks. See you guys in a few hours.
I didn't know the Governor had trouble reading his notes. Why doesn't he wear... STEPHEN He doesn't but Pullman is 5'8" he'll look like a hobbit behind that podium.
Well it all comes down to this...We are one week away from the Ohio primary... Camera now moves past ROB to another news truck where an MSNBC REPORTER stands in front of a camera waiting to go live. There is a monitor in front of him. The camera keeps moving into the monitor where RACHEL MADDOW does the lead in.
Two democrats are left standing. Senator Pullman of Arkansas who is trailing Governor Morris from Pennsylvania.
Governor Morris has mounted a sizable lead with 2047 delegates, winning New Hampshire, California, New York and Michigan...But Senator Pullman with 1302 delegates is still in the hunt having won Florida, Tennessee, Virginia and Missouri...
RACHEL MADDOW A win in Ohio could turn it all around for the Arkansas Senator...
So one week from Tuesday the all important hundred and eighty one Ohio delegates could be the deciding factor..
And once again the old adage is true..."As goes Ohio, so goes the Nation." CUT TO:
Would you call yourself a Christian? GOV. MORRIS How would that matter?
 "I have no idea what happens when we die, maybe nothing...maybe it was like before we were born." You did write this Governor...
Then let me try and clarify...I was raised Catholic, I am not a practicing Catholic...I have no idea what happens when you die and if the Senator does, then perhaps he should be President. I'll even vote for him.
Is that your idea of being specific?
We're now live inside the debate.
Let me be more specific. I am neither a Christian, nor an atheist, I'm not Jewish or Muslim...what I believe...my religion is written on a piece of parchment called the Constitution. Meaning I will defend, till my dying breath, your right to worship, in whatever God or lack thereof you believe in, as long as it doesn't hurt others. I believe we should be judged as a government by how we take care of those who can't take care of themselves. That's my religion. If you feel that I'm not religious enough, then don't vote for me. If you feel I'm not experienced enough or tall enough then don't vote for me. Because I'm not going to change those to get elected.
I just wanted you to say out loud if you believed in the teachings of the Bible.
Is this a Democratic primary or a general election?
Well Governor, whoever wins this contest will be running for President...and if you don't think that these questions won't be central in a general election then you are living in fantasy land. I applaud your honesty Governor, I do...I'm simply pointing to what is obvious...we are running for President of the United States...not for student council president.
A double?
A double. PAUL Fucking national security. The GOVERNOR looks off stage to PAUL and STEPHEN for approval.
Outta the park.
Home run. We hear the announcer thanking everyone for attending the debate. TOM DUFFY - campaign manager of the rival Pullman Campaign - is also watching from the wings. Duffy's smooth, calculated and icy. He walks over to Stephen and Paul.
I'm trying to remember if the democrats ever nominated an atheist before...
Well, we know they've nominated jackasses before.
 Must've been you that did the prep work. Paul's not that clever.
You always had the brains Duffy, but me - I always had the balls.
 Looks like you got some brains now too. Be careful. I just might have to steal him from you. Duffy walks off to greet Senator Pullman as he makes his way to the wings. Paul and Stephen eye him as he goes. PAUL What a prick.
So Paul, tell me something I don't know...tell me what's gonna happen on the 15th. PAUL Ha-ha. IDA What?
What do you think Stevie? STEPHEN It's ours for the taking.
Ben?
We'll win.
What do you think Ida?
I'm asking you.
You tell me and I'll tell you.
If had to say, I'd say it'll be close, but you'll eke it out.
Eke?
PAUL You see, she's trying to get under my skin.
So what's gonna happen? PAUL Us by nine. IDA Nine? There's no way you'll win by nine.
At least. Maybe more. IDA So you're certain you're gonna win here? PAUL Certain? No. Confident? Yes.
You just said you'll win by nine. PAUL And I think we will, but I won't tell you it's a sure thing. Fucking Saint Gabriel can blow his horn on election day and get his four horseman to rig the ballot boxes for Pullman and it wouldn't surprise me. Don't get me wrong. Six presidentials I've done and I've never felt this good. But am I gonna sit here and say "Yes -we will definitely win Ohio"? Not a chance. In the last thirty years seventy-three Democrats have run for president. How many have won? Three. 
So you're saying there's a good chance you won't win.
Don't twist my words. What I'm saying is that I'm not going to promise we'll win. But he's decorated by Bush Senior from the first Gulf war and protested the second. He left his state with a balanced budget and the fourth highest education rate. The Republicans have nobody out there that can touch this guy...so for this moment, this election, this primary is the presidential. And that Ida, is the state of the union. And on that note, I'm gonna take a shit. PAUL swigs down the rest of his drink and exits.
So Stephen... STEPHEN Yes Ida?
Stephen, Stephen, Stephen....
Here it comes...hit me.
Paul's going to the airport? STEPHEN Yes? IDA Getting on a plane.
Mmhmm. IDA Where is that plane going?
Three guesses.
Not going back to headquarters. STEPHEN Correct. IDA He's not going to Texas?
No need, we'll split Texas, it's a wash. IDA What if I said North Carolina? STEPHEN That's your guess?
He's going to North Carolina.
I will neither confirm nor deny that statement.
I knew it. Now tell me why.
That I cannot do. IDA I hate you.
You love me. IDA I love Paul. You I hate.
You only love him because he gives you all the scoops.
Sexual favors?
You're engaged.
If it meant a good scoop my fiance would understand.
IDA You really buy into all this crap? All this take back the country nonsense?
Ida I'm not naive about this stuff. I've worked on more campaigns than most people do by the time they're forty...I'm telling you this is the one. IDA You really have drunk the kool-aid.
I have drunk it it's delicious. I don't care whether he leads in the polls...I don't care whether he has all the tools...Because the truth is, he's the only one that's going to make a difference in peoples lives...Even the people that hate him. If Mike Morris is President it says more about us than it does about him. I don't give a fuck if he can win. He has to win.
Or what? The world will fall apart? It won't matter...Not one bit to the everyday lives of everyday fuckers who work and eat and sleep and get up and go back to work again. If your boy wins...You get a job in the white house...If he loses you're back at a consulting firm on K Street...That's it. You used to know that before you got all goosebumpy about this guy. Morris is a politician...He's a nice guy...They're all nice guys. 
This is off off off the record.
What? PAUL Franklin Thompson. IDA Seriously?
Off the record. The only people who know are the Governor, Stephen and me. IDA My lips are sealed.
I have a meeting tomorrow at Thompson's house.
He's gonna endorse? PAUL After I'm done talking with him, what do you think? IDA That's huge.
It's more than huge. He has 356 pledged delegates...they all travel with him. That puts us over the top. IDA He's said publicly he's not gonna endorse anyone.
That's what they all say until we get them alone in a room.
So this is for real?
Yup. It's just about in the bag.
When are you gonna announce?
Nope. That's all you get for now. CUT TO:
BEN Okay so listen up...these are your new cell phones...Shelly has pre- programmed everyone's numbers in...thank you Shelly...no personal calls...if you lose them, Paul has authorized me to kill you. Ben walks into Stephen's office and hands him his new phone.
New phones... STEPHEN I'll get it in a bit...
The economy...health care...I've got to believe we can do it. We have enemies...we have to understand why our enemies are our enemies, and see if there is something we can do about that besides using force. What we know from history is the answer to extremism is not extremism. Whoever is the next president, whoever steps up, has got a lot of work to do, but you have a little work to do yourself. Stephen hits pause.
Fucking kill me...where did we get this?
Before he announced at a town hall meeting in Pennsylvania...
Thank God it wasn't overseas. Just get rid of it -
It plays to his base, if-
Are you fucking stoned...this is the same...the exact same piece the Republicans are gonna run against him in the general...we don't need to brag about it...Hi I'm Neville Chamberlain and I want to be your commander in chief. EDITOR If it's gonna come out-
It's gonna come out but not paid for by us pal.  Any truth on whether Pullman had investments in those diamond mines in Liberia?
We're still checking...it was a blog so who the fuck knows...
Doesn't matter I want to hear him denying it. If it's true, find out, if it's not, let them spend the next day telling the post that he doesn't own a diamond mine in Liberia...win win.
Okay. STEPHEN We need to counter this Christian shit we're taking from last night...so get going...Where's our cut on the new thirty and a sixty second spots? We'll show it to him this afternoon in the staff meeting.
Got it. The Editor and staffer exit.
Ben wanted me to get you to sign off on this before the staff meeting.
Oh, right. Thanks. I've been waiting for this. MOLLY Anything interesting?
Just some white paper I gotta pass out tonight.
White paper?
Negative shit. Our oppo guys do research - we feed it to the press, hope they bite. MOLLY So like what sort of negative stuff? STEPHEN Read tomorrow's paper and you'll see.
Which paper? STEPHEN All of them. MOLLY So it's something big?
I wish it were something bigger actually. Just some transportation numbers. I'll have to spin this shit pretty heavy if we want it to stick.
Well that's what you're good at, right?
I guess. MOLLY  Did you get your phone? STEPHEN  Just now.
 It's exciting isn't it?
You a Bearcat...?
A what?
A Cincinnati Bearcat? MOLLY Oh no...I'm not from here...I worked with you in Iowa actually.
Oh that's right...but you changed something. (Searching for a way out.) MOLLY My hair? STEPHEN You changed your hair.
 No..
I must look like a total dumb ass right now.
Not at all...you're the big man on campus...I'm just a lowly intern.
Come on it's not like that. MOLLY Sure it is...you get to stay at the Millennium, they put us into a motel on the other side of the river.
You're right, I am big man on campus. MOLLY Now you're starting to see. She starts to leave.
We do have the better bar though.
I heard that.
You ought to stop by one night and have a drink with the worker bees.
Maybe I will...when's a good night?
Tonight's good...
Really? Tuesday? MOLLY Yeah it's quiet. STEPHEN Quiet's good.
Well you have my number.
I do?
Programmed right there in your phone.
Oh...right... MOLLY Under Mary.
 Yup...Mary.
Molly...my name's Molly... Stephen smiles to himself. CUT TO:
That's what I'm hearing...since Super Tuesday I'm a very popular guy. What are your polls telling you?
That Pullman's negatives are high...mid forties. Senator we have an open seat in the White House and the Republicans don't have dick. They're disorganized and they can't find a nominee that isn't a world class fuck up. They look like Democrats. No Republican is gonna show up to vote for their guy. But if Pullman gets the Democratic nod they'll show up to vote against him.
And so you think they won't for your guy...you think Morris gets into the independents? PAUL I sure do. Senator...I'm a bit confused...we need your delegates...we need you...your fund raising. It was my understanding that...your endorsement a week before Ohio...would win this for us...
 Estella...hand me that ice bucket.
Paul knows...Paul agrees...
Ben, where's my op ed on national service? It's better for me to work off of that.
Got it right here. (He opens his laptop.)
Get me a hard copy...I hate these fucking things... STEPHEN Print it out. BEN I'll get it printed. Molly, I'm printing out this op ed...can you grab it off the printer?
Be right back.
Governor...if you want to change...or lets call it refresh...
Just give me a second... STEPHEN National service isn't polling like the rest of your domestic policy.
I don't give a shit about polling...I'm not going to play this game with you Stephen...and if this is your good cop bad cop act with Paul... STEPHEN Good cop, good cop. GOV. MORRIS I'm not changing it.
Hang on.
Yeah I said it all here, "It's going to help people get an education...it's going to create national unity...it's going to teach young people a trade...and it's going to help get people out of debt from college loans. Tell me where that fails. STEPHEN All of that is exactly right...Governor if you're going to do it...then do it. Don't make it voluntary...mandatory.
That'll poll well.
Mandatory!...everyone who graduates high school or turns eighteen, gives two years to his or her country. Military...peace corps...plant fucking trees, I don't care...and for that...their college education is paid for...period.
We do all of that now, with this...
No sir you don't...do it all...all the way. Mandatory. GOV. MORRIS Paul likes this?...you guys are my brain trust.
And here's the beauty of it...everyone who is older than eighteen and past the age of eligibility, would be for it...create national pride...give all the kids an education.
And all the others?
Can't vote. Too young. This sits with them. Some start to smile.
You can't lose.
Stephen you have a call on three, your dad.
Okay, you and Ben work it into the stump speech - get me a hard copy and I'll write it in my own words.
Remember, Governor... you have a six o'clock with Charlie Rose... GOV. MORRIS Why am I doing him?
It's long form... he's flying in...
Is Paul going? STEPHEN No, he won't be back... Ben and I are taking you...
CUT TO:
...Don't tell me anyone's died... DUFFY Hey Stephen...
Who is this?
Tom Duffy...sorry about the dad bit...but I didn't think you'd want my name yelled out at a Morris campaign office. STEPHEN gets up and closes the door.
What do you want?
You got a couple of minutes...I'd like to sit down with you. STEPHEN What for?
I think it's important.
If it's important shouldn't you be calling Paul?
I'm calling you...This is all on the up and up...just give me five minutes.
I can't be talking to you... DUFFY I hear you...but if you get five minutes...I'll be at the Heads First Sports Bar for the next couple of hours.
I can't Tom.
There won't be anybody there...if you get a chance there's something I want to show you. DUFFY hangs up. STEPHEN sits for a few beats. He picks up his cell phone and dials...it goes straight to voice mail.
Paul, listen, call me as soon as you can...it's important.
We're in a run-down bar in Cincinnati. The furniture is shabby - Formica tables, cheap metal framed chairs. The place is desolate except for TOM and STEPHEN who sit at the bar.
You're working for the wrong man.
You're working for the wrong man.
Oh on the contrary you are working for the wrong man. You've got something the other guys don't have.
Yeah?
Yeah, what is it exactly? Charm isn't the right word. It's more than that. You exude something. You draw people in. All the reporters love you. Even the ones that hate you love you. You play them all like they're pieces on a chess board. And you make it look effortless. We both know how much work it takes, constantly being on guard, weighing every word so carefully, every move. But from the outside, you make it look easy. 
I want you to work for us. STEPHEN You gotta be kidding me. DUFFY Not in the least.
You are going to lose Ohio.
I am not. DUFFY You're sitting on about a six percent lead in both polls...six percent of the Democrats polled.
Eight. DUFFY Six...but that doesn't matter...Independents and Republicans can vote for the Democratic candidate. STEPHEN You think they like your guy?...pro choice...tax and spend liberal?
Fuck no they hate him...they think they can beat my guy...but they're worried about yours...so starting tomorrow morning you're gonna see a fucking blitz...Rush Limbaugh, Sean Hannity, all the right wing blogs are gonna start a "Get out the vote campaign"...it's already started...every fucking conservative in Ohio is gonna stand in line and punch my guys ticket...that's just one of the steps...Ohio is gone...the polls don't mean shit...tomorrow morning everyone will know...that's why I want you to handle the fallout we'll take in the press... They look at each other.
And by the way...we've got Thompson in the bag.
I know for a fact that Thompson is going with us.
We promised him Secretary of State, Ohio is over...it's been over for weeks...and with Thompson's delegates...I'm thinking down the road now...that's why I want you...I'll bring you in straight at the top.
I can't do it. DUFFY I'm not asking for an answer right this moment.
I've played dirty but I don't have to play dirty anymore...you know why? Cause I got Morris!
None of this is about the democratic process Steve, It's about getting your guy into office. Simple as that. STEPHEN This is the sort of shit the Republicans pull.
You're right, this is exactly what the Republicans do, and it's about time we learned from them. They're meaner, tougher and more disciplined than we are. I've been in this business for twenty five years and I've seen way too many Democrats bite the dust because they wouldn't get down in the mud with the fucking elephants.
Paul's a friend.
Do you want to work for a friend or do you want to work for the President? Think about it...you have my number. Duffy gets up and leaves.
RESIDENTIAL STREET
Paul. PAUL They don't make quaaludes any more do they? STEPHEN Not that I know of. What's going on with Thompson?
He wants something but we'll be fine... So what's so important?
It's nothing...never mind.
Allright...I'm on the cell if you need me. I fly to DC tomorrow and back tomorrow night.
Yeah okay...I'll look for quaaludes. PAUL Good man. STEPHEN ends the call. He stands in silence.
Give me a second... He sets his laptop down and starts typing. The Governor, who's been talking the whole time, yells out through the door.
Stephen... you're still single, right?
I'm married to the campaign, Governor.
Good answer.  He's married to the campaign...
 Wall Street Journal poll has our numbers holding steady and Pullman dropped a point. STEPHEN Really? When did they do that? Governor... Wall Street Journal numbers are in... and Pullman's down a point.
Now we're moving in the right direction. Ben, are you still single? BEN I'm married to the campaign, Governor.
 Crack team.
 Make sure Charlie Rose has these latest numbers before he goes on...
 I'm on it.
And get a copy of the show before we leave...
Is it a difficult decision? I would have to believe that it is... would I do it? No... but I can't see myself... or anyone... certainly not a government, telling a woman what she can do with her body.
So you would appoint a judge to... GOV. MORRIS ... I would consider it arrogant to judge someone until I've walked in their shoes. CHARLIE ROSE But you're against the death penalty? GOV. MORRIS Yes. Because of what it says about us as a society.
Suppose Governor it was your wife...
And she was murdered, what would I do. CHARLIE ROSE It gets more complicated when it's personal.
Sure...well if I could get to him I'd find a way to kill him.
So you, you Governor would impose the death penalty.
No, I would commit a crime for which I would happily go to jail.
Then why not let society do that? GOV. MORRIS Because society has to be better than the individual. If I were to do that I would be wrong.
And what about guns?
Isn't it time for a commercial. They laugh.
This is public TV, we don't have commercials...
That's unfortunate.
Where'd you go after Iowa? MOLLY California for Super Tuesday.
I had to go to New York.
I know...you guys needed a lot more help over there.
Yeah. So why politics?
Because the pay is so good.
It just seems like an odd fit.
My dad is Jack Stearns. Beat. STEPHEN He's a good guy.
He's an asshole but he's your boss.
He's not my boss. He's the head of the DNC.
You don't work for the Democratic National Committee?
I work for Paul, Paul works for Morris and if Morris wins, he's going to be your dad's boss.
Don't tell my dad that. STEPHEN Don't tell your dad a lot of things.
Never. STEPHEN What time do you start tomorrow?
Nine AM...I'm showing the new interns how to robo call...you see...I'm the experienced intern. STEPHEN I do see...
How old are you?
How old do you think I am?
Thirty?
You think I'm thirty?
I'm sorry, how old are you?
Thirty...how old are you? MOLLY How old do you think I am?
Twenty one?
Twenty. STEPHEN That's young.
Too young to fuck a thirty year old?
See laws are different in different states. Here in your hotel, in Kentucky...it's frowned upon...but we'll go across the bridge into Ohio... MOLLY Where your hotel is?
Yeah surprisingly they're very lax about their child endangerment laws... MOLLY You have a car? I don't drive.
I took a cab.
I have the keys to the campaign bus... On their smiles
In fairness, this has been tried before...Operation Chaos, as Rush Limbaugh called it, where Republicans voted for a Democrat they thought they could beat in the general election. We asked Senator Pullman's campaign manager if this sudden right wing support is welcome...
Is it decisive?...Of Course not...look, we believe that the polls are within the margin of error and that the Senator will win Ohio...with Ohio Democrats...I can't really see Republicans showing up to vote for our candidate...having said that, we'll take all the support we can get.
 What time does Paul land?... Christ...who do we talk to about polling?...no...I just...I just need to get some internal polling on the fucking Independents and the right-wing nuts.
Do you want me to go?
Listen, put me on the line with...what's the guy's name at the Wall Street Journal?... yeah... MOLLY You seem busy...I should go.
Wait.
Steve? She starts to get dressed. STEPHEN Molly listen, just give me a second...I want to talk to you about something.
We can talk about it later if...
 What? No nobody...just the cleaning lady...listen Ben...keep trying till you get him. We're gonna go with the position that we've always said, the race is closer than the polling...right...no don't...don't say that...just get him on the line and call me...I'll handle it...yup. He hangs up. STEPHEN Sorry about that.
The cleaning lady.
What? MOLLY You called me the cleaning lady. STEPHEN You're not mad about that are you?
No why would I be mad? Beat.
Look.
Earlier I spoke with Jack Stearns, head of the DNC, and he had this to say...
I know you're looking for a reaction, but listen we have two great candidates in a very tight race...and at the end of the day the voters will decide who best can represent this party in the fall.
I understand Jack - but doesn't this kind of disruption take away from what you want to be pushing this year?
I'll tell him you said that.
Do that. MOLLY You said you wanted to talk to me about something?
Yeah, I just wanted...I just wanted to be clear about everything...so there's no confusion...
I won't tell anyone about last night.
Well yeah, I'd appreciate it if we kept this...I mean, you know how people are. MOLLY Really wouldn't look good if you screwed an intern. STEPHEN It's not like I got drunk and this happened...I mean...I wanted to...I really like you...you're smart...but I just...I don't want there to be any expectations...
Steven, you don't have to say anything.
I just don't want you to think I'm some kind of player.
Well you are kind of a player, but that's okay.
No I'm not. I was being polite. MOLLY starts to tie STEPHENS tie.
Bullshit...you were trying to pick me up.
No I wasn't.
You were pretty obvious about it. STEPHEN I was? MOLLY Totally.
I thought I was being all smooth and subtle.
You were pretty forward. STEPHEN You were pretty forward ...inviting me to the bar.
Well...I've been trying to fuck you for a while.
Wow.
Pretty slutty of me, huh?
No, not at all...I mean I kind of respect it in a weird sort of way.
Good.
You have absolutely no idea how to tie a tie do you...
No no not a clue.
You're very mature.
For a teenager.
When are you coming back?
I'll be at the event...a little late...these cock suckers...fucking dirty shit.
What happened with Thompson?
Nothing, the prick...we had him all sewed up...MOTHER FUCKER...how bad is it? STEPHEN I'm running some numbers now...I don't know...
Alright, I'll be there in three hours...I want hard numbers...and a strategy. STEPHEN Yeah I'm on it...I gotta go.
You okay?
Yup... Just trying to figure out our stops on the ground.
I think the weather might determine that. If we get there.
We'll be fine...we have to do it...and it's the right thing. Nothing bad happens when it's the right thing. GOV. MORRIS Is this your personal theory...cause I can shoot holes in it...Roberto Clemente...on a humanitarian flight.
Well there are exceptions to every rule... They smile. The Governor looks at Stephen.
So how we doin?
Fine now.
No I mean...the campaign how we doin?
Great...
Listen Stephen...you're not Paul. I pay him to use the word "great". I pay you to tell me the truth.
I think we're solid. GOV. MORRIS Okay Paul. STEPHEN Governor there's a big difference between Paul and me. Paul only believes in winning so he'll do or say anything to win.
But you wouldn't. STEPHEN I'll do or say anything if I believe in it...but I have to believe in the cause.
You'll make a lousy consultant when you're out of this line of work. STEPHEN Well I won't be out of this line of work as long as you're in it. GOV. MORRIS So at best you've got eight years...then you'll end up with a nice little consultant firm on Farragut North...eating at the Palm...pulling in seven hundred and fifty grand a year...pimping out Senators to Saudi Princes. They both smile.
Pimping out ex presidents...
Then I better win...
Yeah. CUT TO:
GOVERNOR MORRIS addresses the crowd.
Now, I've been married for eleven years, to the smartest person I know...and we have a normal marriage...which means when we disagree...she wins. What we don't ever disagree on is how we're going to leave this planet for our daughter. Are we gonna leave it better off, or worse? The richest people in this country don't pay their fare share. And when they're asked to, they cry socialism, they use phrases like redistribution of wealth. That scares everybody and they all run and they hide. For the record, my campaign is vehemently against the distribution of wealth to the richest Americans, by our government! And I will run on that!
I didn't think it was true. PAUL Whoa...
But I should have told you this yesterday...sorry...
-Slow down.
I met with Tom Duffy yesterday. PAUL What? STEPHEN You were on a plane and he called me and he asked if we could meet...And I said why...he said it was very important so I did...but I should've fucking told you... PAUL Stop Stop let me get this straight. You met with Tom Duffy?
Yes.
What'd he want Stephen? STEPHEN -the gist of it is he wants to hire me. He wants me to jump ship and come work for him...this is bad Paul. He showed me poll numbers with Pullman ahead by four. We're in really deep fucking trouble he laid out their whole plan. Robo- calls, traffic jams, fake lit, and fucking Thompson. They promised him Secretary of State.
You know how you fight the war on terror?...Don't need their product anymore. Their product is oil, just don't need it and they go away. We don't have to bomb anyone we don't have to invade anyone! CUT TO:
If this is some sort of practical-I mean -my fucking blood pressure is going through the roof right now.
Paul I'm sorry. Believe me...I just didn't think it was true.
It doesn't fucking matter what you thought. It matters what you did. It matters what you didn't do. If all this shit is true I made a fucking ass of myself at Thompson's place. And I gave away our game plan.
Please believe me that I honestly believed you were gonna come back and you were gonna tell me that we have Thompson in the bag and I didn't see the point. But it doesn't make it right and I'm sorry.
Let me think...let me think...
If I'm your president, the first thing I put in motion, ten years from the day I'm in office...no new car in America runs on an internal combustion engine. It'll create hundreds of thousands of new jobs...we will start the next technological revolution and we will lead the world again...like we used to...
We get the Governor right after he finishes singing Kum Bay Ya and give him everything we know.
Who do you want...
You, me and the Governor, that's it! What's he got after?
A fund-raiser in Cleveland tonight.
He'll be late...we're gonna tell him that if he doesn't offer Thompson a cabinet position...he's not gonna get the nomination.
Will he go for it? PAUL I don't fucking know Stephen.
Find us a room...
How real are the numbers?
We might pick up a couple of points...but we're...I don't know, we lose by three or four percent. PAUL Who the fuck knows Governor...but we can't take the chance... GOV. MORRIS What do you think?
I think we fold up the campaign in Ohio...take a loss and blame it on the Republican's playing games...head to North Carolina. GOV. MORRIS I can't run from Ohio...they'll kill us.
Not if you get Thompson's endorsement. GOV. MORRIS I'm not gonna do it. What's he want head of the FDA or something ridiculous? STEPHEN Cabinet post.
Labor?
State... This sits with them.
Are you fucking kidding me...I'm gonna give Secretary of State to a guy who wants to cut the top ten floors off the UN? Paul when we started this campaign I said I wasn't gonna make those kind of deals.
Governor, if you lose Ohio, and they get Thompson's delegates...Then they get North Carolina...then they get the lead. A lead you can't beat. But if we walk from Ohio, take Thompson, give him a cabinet post, then we take North Carolina. His state. Then Pennsylvania. Your state. And then it's simple math Mike. Take his endorsement and the race is over.
Paul, I respect you...respect your opinion...but I'm never gonna do it...so I suggest we find a way for me to win Ohio.
Anything else?
 Do we have any other senators that can go to bat for us? House members won't do.
 Or a Congressman from Ohio maybe.
Right...but we need a Senator...one from Ohio would be nice. We push the camera through the room, edging closer to PAUL.
 This is all the car rental companies in Northern Ohio...they've booked every single van for Tuesday...
Fuck...Jess, I'll call you back... All of them? Goddamit!
 Here's what I have so far...Independents don't seem to be biting, but Republicans are...or say they are. STEPHEN They're not gonna tell a pollster that they're gonna vote Democratic...I don't even know how to read these polls.
I called and we can get a hundred vans out of Covington and Newport Kentucky.
We don't need the fucking vans...we just don't want Pullman to have them...
No, No that's not what I'm saying...we were the underdog before we got into this and we continue to be the underdog...well the numbers...we knew the numbers would get closer the closer we got to Tuesday...I'm not lowering expectations...have you ever heard me say that we had Ohio locked?... Then at least give me the courtesy of printing that in your column.
What're you writing?
The greatest speech ever given on hydrogen power. CINDY The bar is awfully high on that one.
Don't I know it.
I got hit up by Mitchell's wife for you to show up at her "Daughters of the American Revolution" luncheon. GOV. MORRIS Who's Mitchell?
Congressman from the first district. You might want to remember that.
Fucking Congressmen. Could you imagine doing this every two years?
No I can't. Lets just do this one more time. GOV. MORRIS In four more years. CINDY That's it.
Deal.
CINDY You think we'll lose Ohio?
I don't know.
If you took Thompson's delegates the race is over. Ohio wouldn't matter. GOV. MORRIS Is Paul working on you? CINDY  Stephen.
 They are good. CINDY Is Thompson so bad? GOV. MORRIS He's a shit.
Worse than Pullman? GOV. MORRIS Yes Stephen.
GOV. MORRIS Every time I draw a line in the sand...and I keep moving it. Fund raising, union deals...I wasn't going to do any of it...negative ads...I can't on this one. Not Thompson. Beat.
Tell Mrs. Mitchell I'll make her goddamn luncheon.
GOV. MORRIS Let the old ladies pat me on the head.
You've got great hair. GOV. MORRIS You too baby. They lay their heads back onto the headrests.
Gay marriage?
It's a silly argument. STUDENT 1 Not to fifty percent of Americans.
Over the age of fifty.
That's who votes...that's who shows up at the polls. GOV. MORRIS Well that's changing...and hopefully the way we frame the argument is...
 Keep an eye on the Governor.
 Let me know how it's going out there. STEPHEN I'm on it.
STUDENT 1 From...a religious...a GOV. MORRIS From a religious to a civil rights issue.
But one could argue a great difference between gender and race. GOV. MORRIS Not really. They used to ban interracial marriage...women couldn't vote...the list goes on... STUDENT 1 The argument of course-
Now wait she has a point to make....
The argument is that men and women, can in fact be separate but equal, races cannot. GOV. MORRIS How so?
You have separate public bathrooms for men and women but it would be illegal to have separate bathrooms for two races. GOV. MORRIS Now. STUDENT 1  Yes now.
GOV. MORRIS So that's what I'm saying. CUT TO:
What time is this on tonight?
Nine o'clock. STEPHEN How'd he do?
He did good.
See we're framing the argument based on the idea that homosexuality is a choice, you choose to be gay, not that you were born that way like being born black. Because if you start the discussion with the idea that gay is not a life choice but part of your DNA, then gay marriage is and can only be a civil rights issue.
Do you think candor is your appeal? Is that what you're running on as much as your platform...?
We'll see. It'll drive them to the polls one way or the other.
I just heard a lot of Christian Coalition cars start up.
It's not you. They laugh. CUT TO:
Hello...
Molly?
Your phone rang. MOLLY Really?
Who's calling at 2:30 in the morning? MOLLY I don't know? STEPHEN He asked for you by name.
You answered it?
I thought it was mine. Who was it? MOLLY I don't know... STEPHEN One of the other interns drunk dialing you?
 Oh that never happens...let me see the number... She reaches for the phone, but Steven keeps it away from her.
Hold on...
 Stephen...
I'm gonna call him back.
No!
...And I'm gonna tell him that I'm your dad... MOLLY Gimme my phone Stephen!
And I'm gonna tell him I'm coming over there with a shotgun...
 Don't do that Stephen... Hang up!
STEPHEN Why is the Governor calling you at 2:30 in the morning?
Why is the Governor calling you at all? MOLLY I'm in trouble... STEPHEN With the Governor? What's going on?
I was working on the campaign in Iowa...we had a party in Ben's room after the rally in Des Moines... STEPHEN There was a party with you...and Ben...and the Governor.
No he wasn't there.
Where was he?
I took him up a hard copy of the polling numbers...
After the party? MOLLY  About midnight I guess...I stood in the doorway with him...we were talking...a long time...then he just reached behind me and closed the door.
Jesus fucking Christ...Were you drunk? MOLLY Not that drunk... STEPHEN How many times?
Just that once.
Does anybody know? Did anyone see you?
No.
How could you know?
I know! STEPHEN Then why is he calling you now? MOLLY I called him first.
Why?
Because I didn't know who to go to...and I needed nine hundred bucks... STEPHEN For what?
I can't go to my dad...We're catholic.
So what should I do?
The signs all look wrong now. The smile on Morris's face looks fake. He sees MOLLY as he passes and heads into the war room.
Ben... come here a minute
What's up?
What's our limit on petty cash?
It's probably five hundred. Why? STEPHEN I need as much as we have.
Everything okay?... anything I can help with?
Yeah...don't put it on the books. That's all.
What should I put it down as?
Don't put it down as anything...
Anything over a hundred I got to put it down as something...
 Just do it!
We follow BEN into the bullpen, past the STAFFERS who look up at the outburst... MOLLY watches BEN and then looks to STEPHEN who closes his door. We stay on MOLLY.
Molly... She gets up and comes into his office. Stephen hands Molly a folder that he writes on the inside of STEPHEN Here...
Okay.
I'll take that. That's all.
CUT TO:
Stevie ... off the record ...
No I can't tell you what happened in North Carolina.
That's not what I wanted to ask you about.
Okay what?
You met with Duffy.
STEPHEN Who told you that?
A little bird.
Who?
Did you meet with him? STEPHEN Where are you?
I know you met with him at a little bar in Cincy, two nights ago, just before the press conference. Duffy ordered buffalo wings.
Did Duffy tell you this?
Anonymous. What happened with Duffy?
You're supposed to be my friend Ida. You'd stab me in the back like this? You'd ruin my reputation just so you- IDA Wait wait wait -is that what you thought? That we were friends?
I've given you everything -every fucking scoop, your profile with Pau1.... IDA You're right -you've given me a lot. But let's get real here Steve. The only reason you ever treated me well was that I work for the Times. Not because I was your friend. You give me what I want, I write you better stories. Don't pretend it's any more than that. Why'd you meet with Duffy? STEPHEN Go fuck yourself.
Okay, I'll make it easier on you. Forget Duffy. What happened at Paul and Thompson's meeting? STEPHEN  Will you keep your voice down. Do you have any idea what a story like this could do to me?
Of course I do. That's why I'm giving you a choice here. STEPHEN I could get fired. IDA So it's not a difficult choice, is it? I've got to file by three p.m. 
You mother fucker. DUFFY Excuse me? STEPHEN You leaked it.
Leaked what?
Don't bullshit me Tom.
Bullshit you...I have no idea what you're talking about.
I just spoke with Ida Horowicz. DUFFY Yeah?
She's threatening to release the story.
What fucking story?
That we met! That I fuckin met with you! DUFFY How did she find out?
Don't play dumb here Tom.
You think I leaked it to her? STEPHEN Who else? DUFFY I didn't leak it to her.
Well I know I didn't, so that leaves you. DUFFY What's she know? STEPHEN She knows whatever you told her.
I swear to Jesus I didn't leak it to her Steve. I don't want this story out any more than you do. STEPHEN Well too late. DUFFY What did she tell you?
She knows where we met, she knows when we met... she knows you had buffalo fucking wings.
She has a source? STEPHEN Yes she has a source.
And you have no idea who it could be?
Yeah, you.
Well it wasn't me, and for the record I didn't have fucking buffalo wings. It's gotta be some one else. STEPHEN Did you tell anyone? DUFFY No. Did you?
No. DUFFY Did you admit to meeting with me? STEPHEN No.
Then we stonewall her and she's got nothing.
She's gonna take the story to Drudge, or Roll Call...shit like that. DUFFY You can't stop her?
She's trying to blackmail me - wants info about Thompson.
Then tell her what she wants to know. STEPHEN I can't do that.
You can't let this story get out. STEPHEN I'm not gonna be blackmailed Tom. DUFFY You don't have much of a choice here.
If I tell her about Thompson I gotta tell her he's gonna endorse you guys. DUFFY Then tell her. I can handle it from my side if I start getting calls.
No fucking way. Paul told her we had Thompson in the bag. It'll make us look like fools. DUFFY You're gonna look like fools anyway when he endorses us. STEPHEN I can't do it.
You're on a sinking ship Steve. Tell her what she wants to know and jump. Come over to our side. We can control this thing.
No answer from STEPHEN.
Steve? STEPHEN I Gotta go.
I'm up here.
 Shit, you scared me.
Take this.
It's almost 1800 bucks... you make the appointment now... today... from a pay phone... I'll take you to the clinic and pick you up... no one else... you understand? MOLLY Yes.
You take the rest of the money and you buy a ticket home... you can't be here anymore... we can't afford it... not with everything that's gonna happen in the next week. This situation just can't be here. MOLLY You mean I can't be here.
Right. MOLLY But I would never tell anyone...
I would hope not.
Then why?
You fucked up, Molly...
He and I both fucked up.
But I have a responsibility to him... and more importantly I have a responsibility to this campaign. MOLLY I could go to North Carolina and work on the campaign... STEPHEN Molly you've go to wake the fuck up... this is the big leagues... it's mean...and when you make mistakes you lose your right to play. Make the appointment and tell me when and where we have to go. He exits.
Listen to this. I got the placement in the Times...this is a match up of hope versus fear. Nine times out of ten the fear candidate tends to be the most experienced...but in our presidential races the least experienced candidate almost always wins. JFK versus Nixon...Carter versus Ford...Bush versus Gore...I like our chances with the new kid on the block, end quote. Thomas Fucking Duffy...he's gotta be having a stroke right now.
CUT TO:
So just call me when you can leave okay.
 I hate this shit... STEPHEN I'll be back, this'll all be over... MOLLY Yeah...
We're in PAUL'S room. He's lying on the bed, talking on his cell phone.
Absolutely -there's no question about it ....
But we've got to think broader strokes here, rethink everything....uh-huh....Yeah, I know how to handle it....Look,Stevie just got here. Can I call you back in a few minutes? ..Okay, bye. The Governor. We had a good long talk on the way back. He's up to speed with everything. STEPHEN How'd he take it?
Better than I thought he would. Still won't take Thompson's endorsement. STEPHEN Paul-I gotta tell you something. PAUL What's up?
Ida knows I met with Duffy. PAUL stares at him blankly.
I don't know how she found out. Tried to blackmail me. Said she was gonna let the story out if I didn't tell her what happened at your meeting with Thompson.
So it's gonna hit the papers.
Probably. Yeah. Whoever she takes it to, they're gonna call me for a statement. 
At the event. STEPHEN I don't understand. PAUL We made a deal.
Paul...they're gonna print that story in the paper tomorrow morning. PAUL I know. STEPHEN But why? Why would you do that to me? Why would you do that to the campaign. PAUL The campaign will survive.
Then why would you do that to me? PAUL Makes it easier to let you go.
What? PAUL Why'd you meet with Duffy? STEPHEN I made a mistake - a stupid mistake.
No Stephen. You didn't make a mistake. You made a choice. You called me and left a message to call back...that it was important. But when I did...you said to forget about it. You chose not to tell me. Why did you make that choice? STEPHEN I didn't think it was important.
Sure you did. But you went because you were curious, because you were flattered. Because it made you feel special to think Duffy wanted to speak to you instead of me. Because you thought to yourself: maybe I can get something out of this. Because it made you feel big. First campaign I ran tiny little race in Kentucky -state senate seat. Workin for redneck nobody named McGuthrie. Had no money, no staff, no fuckin office. Everyone thought we didn't stand a chance. There's no way we can compete. And about this time, a guy running a congressional campaign a few districts over gives me a call. Says, "I really like what you were able to do for poor ole' Sam. But let's face it, he's a goner, so why don't you come work for me?" What do I do? Well Stephen -this is where you and I are different. I told Sam about the call. And Sam says to me, "Paul, you think this other's guy's got a shot at winning, and he can pay you more than anything I can afford, so if it's what you feel you need to do, then I won't get in your way." So I say, "Sam -you took a chance and hired me when I was even more of nobody than you are, and I'd be damned if I'm gonna jump ship just because the shit hit the fan." We lost the race, but three years later, when Sam decided to run for Governor -who do you think he called? We won that race. 
Well it really isn't whether you trust me, it's whether the Governor does.
The Governor knows, he thinks it's the right thing to do.
He does.
If I were you? I'd get a good night sleep because you're gonna get fucking pounded by calls from the press in the morning... Off of Stephen we:
NURSE These are Vicodin...they're for the pain. You have Ambien...that'll help you sleep...and I threw in a couple of Xanax for the next couple of days. Did the doctor explain there would be some bleeding? Molly nods.
Not much...and it shouldn't last very long. If it does you'll need to call us. Molly just sits there staring.
Do you have a ride?
Okay...if you need anything you just call the clinic...okay. MOLLY  Okay.
Yes Mike, Senator Franklin Thompson of North Carolina arrived at the Lunken airfield today igniting rumors of a deal in the works. 
Hey, where were you today?
I'm not feeling great Ben...
You picked a hell of day to call in sick...Jesus...fucking wild day...
Why?
Stephen's off the campaign. Paul fired him. Some fucking set up about loyalty and it looks like Stephen was doubling down with Duffy on the Pullman campaign. I was sitting in the room when Paul told Stephen that he was fired. Stephen said who's gonna take over and Paul said me...and I'm like...easy there soldier...but Stephen goes ape shit then Paul gives the speech about loyalty and then shits on Stephen like I've NEVER SEEN before...christ...humiliating shit.
When was this?
Molly listen to me...I'm gonna run the campaign under Paul...Stephen is going to Duffy. I just jumped three years ahead...so starting tomorrow morning we go into full damage control and I'm telling you Stephen's going ape shit...he said he's taking everyone down on his way out...Morris, everybody!
BEN Shit I gotta take this. Do you need anything?
No.
STEPHEN Where's Duffy...
You got an appointment? Stephen keeps walking.
Joe can you excuse us for a minute. The staffer leaves and Duffy closes the door.
Not very bright, walking in here...
I'm in. I'm coming to work for you.
A reporter at Roll Call phoned me this afternoon.
I know who leaked it.
Who?
Paul.
You told Paul?
Yeah. I told him we met. He leaked it. DUFFY You shouldn't have told him that. STEPHEN I felt like I should.
I've worked with Paul. He gets paranoid.
Obviously. DUFFY So he fired you.
I quit. DUFFY You're lying to me...come on... STEPHEN I quit! And I can give you everything on Morris. Everything. 
I already know his strategy. Paul gave it all to Thompson.
What if I had something else?
You'd do that to Morris? To Paul?
Yeah. DUFFY Revenge makes people unpredictable Steve. I can't have someone who's unpredictable. Who's unstable.
 I'm not unstable.
If it had been a clean break -if you'd left Morris before this story broke, that'd be one thing. That we could control. But the way it'd look now -Paul fires you and then you come work for us. Looks like we're picking up the scraps. Puts Morris in the drivers seat. I can't have that. We see a shot close on STEPHEN'S clinched fist holding the yellow copies from Molly's clinic visit down by his side. We pan up to his face. STEPHEN What if I had something big?
Like what? STEPHEN Something big. Something that'll bring Morris down. DUFFY What is it?
 Give me the job.
It's not gonna happen. I'm sorry. Go take a nice long vacation.
You're a smart guy Steve. Everything I said yesterday is true. But maybe politics isn't for you. STEPHEN Politics is my life. DUFFY Do yourself a favor. Get out now while you still can. Go into entertainment, or business, or open a fucking restaurant in Costa Rica - anything. Do what will make you happy. You stay in this business long enough it makes you jaded and cynical.
Like you?
Yeah. Just like me. STEPHEN You knew I was gonna tell Paul.
I didn't know. I thought you might, but I didn't know.
You knew if I told him he'd fire me. DUFFY Thing you gotta know about Paul- he's big on loyalty. STEPHEN Yeah I got a nice speech on that. You were never gonna hire me.
Put yourself in my shoes Steve. Your opponent has the best media mind in the country working on his team. What do you try to do? You either try to hire him yourself, or work it so if you can't have him, the other team can't either. This was a win-win situation for me. You work for us -great. Paul doesn't have you. Then again, if Paul fires you and I don't take you -fine - Paul still doesn't have you. Either way I win. The moment I got you to sit down in that chair, I knew I'd won.
This is my life you're talking about.
It's not easy for me to do this sort of thing Steve. Don't think I take any pleasure in it. I'm sorry for you. I really am. Take care of yourself.
STEPHEN gets to her room and we see a JANITOR kneeling over Molly's lifeless body. Stephen steps into the room. He can barely move. He just stands there looking at the situation.
No ma'am she's not breathing...No nothing...
...I don't know, fifteen minutes...how far away are they?
Do you know her?
She's gone.
Hello...I'm sorry what? Yes I can hear them now... STEPHEN looks down on the bed and sees Molly's phone. He reaches down takes it and slides it in his pocket.
Nothing. No emotion.
You have four new messages and four saved messages. First new message.
Uhm...where are you?...it's Uhh... it's four something...they're gonna close in a few minutes...
Stephen, it's Ben...listen ...what the fuck...did Paul lose his mind?...Jesus...what're you gonna do? Call me. Beep. MOLLY Stephen I just heard from Ben...please don't do anything fucked up... Godamnit you motherfucker pick up the phone! Don't do it you fuck!
We now hear Molly in a very different tone, calmer, maybe even drunk. MOLLY I'm not going away...
Stephen hangs up.
The coroner has stated, that based on the evidence found by the police in the hotel room, that this was an accidental overdose, a lethal cocktail of alcohol and prescription drugs. The Cincinnati police chief, Darryl Mathews, has called for a full investigation pending a toxicology report which could take up to two weeks. Just a terrible terrible situation for the former Senator, now DNC Chairman, Jack Stearns and his family. Off the Governor's face we:
I want on the ticket...you need me on the ticket...and you need my delegates...you could use em before Tuesday. Make a fine story on the Sunday morning news cycle...so I expect to hear from you by noon tomorrow...or I endorse Pullman and take my cabinet seat.
Anything else you want to talk about?
The entire staff is in a state of shock. We have sent our condolences to Jack and JoAnna Stearns and their whole family... 
Is suicide ruled out?
We have no reason to believe...
I don't think we have any of that information yet. Obviously there will be a full investigation. Just wanted to say that our hearts go out...our prayers go out to the entire family...and she was part of our family.
Did you know her well Governor?
Not well. But I did know her, and what I saw was a hard working, young woman, with a great and positive spirit. It's a very sad day in our campaign and a very sad day for the people close to Jack. REPORTER 6 How long has she interned with you Governor? The Governor looks back at Paul. Paul steps up to the mic.
She'd only been on the road with us for a few weeks...maybe four I think, I can check. IDA Will you continue with your schedule today? You're set to tour Proctor & Gamble this afternoon.
We will most certainly stay on schedule. This accident, and we have to assume for now it's an accident, is just simply a tragedy. The work, the schedule won't be altered. It just means that those of us that knew Molly will go about our jobs with a heavy heart.
It seems you have something you want to talk about.
Does it seem that way?
If you have something...or think you have something you want to get off your chest... STEPHEN What's say I do the talking and you do the listening. GOV. MORRIS Okay.
As of tomorrow morning there's going to be some changes in your campaign. Paul is out. I will be your senior campaign manager. I'll draft a statement, "we're at a point in the campaign where some changes have to be made etc." You can put your own words in there, you do it better than most.
And why would I do that? Beat.
Because you want to win. Because you broke the only rule in politics. You want to be President, you can start a war, you can lie, you can cheat, you can bankrupt the country, but you can't fuck the interns...they'll get you for that.
What do you think you have Stephen? A troubled young girl tells you a story.
A troubled young pregnant girl... GOV. MORRIS Is that what she told you? STEPHEN ...Who needed cash for an abortion.
What did you do, give her money? Maybe she just wanted cash and you were the perfect guy to hit up. STEPHEN Is that your best play?
You need a job that bad Stephen? You walk in here with your dick in your hand...you've got nothing.
So how did I get here? You're right Mike, there's nothing. No phone messages, no text, no e- mails, no photos or tapes, and yet I'm standing right here.
Well go home.
She left a note. The Governor stands in silence.
How would you know that? STEPHEN I cleaned up your mess. I took her phone and I found her note. They stare at each other in silence.
I thought it was an accident. THEN:
You tell me, you were the last one she called. Note says she was pregnant, said you were going to pay for her abortion...it also said she didn't want to hurt you. GOV. MORRIS Then why would she leave a note that could only do that?
Because she's twenty.
What do you want? STEPHEN Paul's gone today. I set a meeting with you and Thompson where you promise him the ticket. You get three hundred and fifty-six pledged delegates, you get North Carolina, and then you take office and make right what so many have made wrong. All the things we both believe in. GOV. MORRIS Well I don't believe in extortion...I don't believe in tying myself to you for the next eight years.
Four years, let's not get ahead of ourselves. A long beat.
What were you doing in her room?
Housekeeping, before you ended up on page one.
No. You were already fired, you were out. What were you doing in her room?
I was fixing a situation...I got a call, someone from the hotel thought I could help and called me. GOV. MORRIS You were off the campaign, but you thought it was important to come back and fix things? It was your voice on the phone the other night. 
I loaned her some money and gave her a ride.
I bet you did.
There's no note.
Okay, there's no note.
Show it to me.
You think I brought it here? That's how people get hurt. GOV. MORRIS Okay let's play this out. You're not wearing a wire because everything you've suggested is illegal...and you wouldn't fare well in federal prison. You were fucking her and she told you about her situation. There are no records or conversations between us. And since she's had an abortion, no DNA evidence. So if there's no note, then it's your word against mine. Your word. A fired, disgruntled, employee, or a sitting governor...There's no note.
It's your call Governor. As the Governor weighs his options we-
Paul you got a minute?
How much could a big shake up days before the Ohio primary hurt a campaign. I asked Paul Zara how his firing could actually help the candidate.
The Governor and I both felt, that in light of some of these changing numbers, it was best to put a new face on the campaign...Stephen is very talented...very smart... CUT TO:
You always hear people talking about events out of sequence...the order of things. There is no greater grief than a parent laying their child to rest...She was a little girl trying to make it in a very grown up world...a world were every mistake is magnified and she was smart and pretty and so so young.
Father, you ask us to accept God's plan, to not question his judgment, with all due respect, I don't accept this judgment. She made the world better, not just for me, but for everyone she touched.
You should hire Jack for a speech writer. STEPHEN I'll keep that in mind. Are you here to talk to me?
No. I'm friends with the family. I got her the internship...known her since she was born. STEPHEN I'm sorry.
The Governor couldn't make the flight?
He's meeting with Thompson. PAUL Look at you, all grown up with tits and all. STEPHEN I learned from the best.
One day we'll grab a beer and you'll tell me what you had on the Governor that put me out. STEPHEN How do you know I didn't have something on you? They both smile.
You better get going, you've got a campaign to run and I've got offices to go look at.
Farragut North? Paul nods his head.
Nice consultant firm right off of K Street. Paul turns to leave. PAUL A million a year and nobody to fuck you over.
Sounds relaxing.
Doesn't it.
And the right man to lead this great nation of ours in these challenging times and the next President of the United States of America, Governor Mike Morris!...And I ask only one thing, that all of us stand shoulder to shoulder and arm in arm in a united Democratic party. Huge cheers.
And I strongly urge that the three hundred and fifty-six loyal delegates that I have carried as a badge of honor, throw their support to the Governor. Let's end this primary and get on to the business of 1600 Pennsylvania Ave!
GOV. MORRIS Thank you Senator Thompson! Well the polls aren't quite closed, but I want to congratulate Senator Pullman...And his Republican constituents on their win here in Ohio. The room explodes in laughter and applause.
Senator Thompson I am honored to stand here today with you. I am humbled by your kind words, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, today marks the beginning of a fight between two sets of ideals. Either we're going to move forward or were going to live in the past... Either we're going to lead the world in technology, or we are going to bury our heads in the sand... the sands of Saudi Arabia...the sands of Iraq! Either we're going to let greed and corruption ruin our industries and our shorelines or we are going to take back our country! We are not a nation used to coming in second or third...
No it's not decisive, we still have several contests and those states are going to want to have their say. It does look like we'll win Ohio...
But you must concede that these three hundred and fifty-six delegates put the pledged delegates out of reach. And with word today that the super delegates are breaking three to one for Morris. DUFFY We still have a lot of contests Rachel, Ohio is-
Well then do you have the funds? As we read it-
 Of course we have the funds. We're getting new donations daily...
Hey...Ben...I was told to talk to you. I'm supposed to get a phone... BEN Right...you're....
Jill Morris...no relation.
Are you a Bearcat? JILL No...I'm from Columbus I'm a Buckeye.
You're making me look bad.
How so? IDA I just filed a story that said you were off the campaign and Thompson was going to Pullman. STEPHEN You can't believe everything you read. IDA I want to give you an opportunity to comment on my next story. It says that you delivered Thompson...You got the three hundred and fifty-six delegates, you delivered the nomination. And all you asked in return was Paul's job. Any chance of you confirming that? They approach a security guard standing by a set of double doors. STEPHEN No press beyond this point...she's press. I'll read about it in the funny papers.
Come on Stephen...aren't we friends anymore?
You're my best friend Ida.
You should be able to hear them...do you hear them?
Yeah I can hear them. SOUND MAN Good, quick mic check can you count to ten for me? Stephen counts to ten. Everyone stands behind the camera. The sound man with his headset on whispers..
They're coming to you in about forty five seconds.
Senator Thompson I am proud that you have brought integrity back to this election. Because that's what this comes down to, integrity. Who we are. Because how we project ourselves to the rest of the world matters!...Dignity matters!...Integrity matters!...Our future depends on it! Forty seconds - the silence is broken by the SOUND MAN.
Coming to you in five...four...three...two...
We now have Governor Morris's new senior campaign advisor, Stephen Myers, coming to us from Xavier University where Senator Thompson has just endorsed Governor Morris, essentially ending this primary race.  Stephen, can you give us some insight into how this whole thing unfolded?
