r And you know what's in the maple syrup you put on your pancakes? You know what makes it taste so good?
Corn. Again, the dolly is on the move-- the corn plants strobe past.
When you get grass stains on your good pants, you know why the detergent mom uses can get them clean again?
That's right. C2rn. A HUGE COMBINE enters frame and turns down a row. The camera follows it. We are in the middle of a massive corn field in SOUTHERN ILLINOIS. The wind creates swells in the corn like a great green and gold sea. The farm equipment accelerates as does Whitacre...
There's corn syrup in the capsules you takes for your allergies, com starch in my beer, even corn oil in the paint we're putting on the barn... Corn flies through the air and into the collecting bin.
.Bacon and eggs is really just corn and corn when you think about what they feed the chickens and the pigs. And when you're good and help with the trash, you know what makes the big green bags biodegradeable? We reach the end of a row. The combine turns to harvest another row REVEALING... A PORSCHE 911 speeding down US HIGHWAY 36...
Do you? Alexander hazards a guess.
Uh-huh. Corn.
Corn starch. But, Daddy's company didn't come up with that one-- DuPont did... Whitacre tussles his hair. They drive by a GAS STATION in the middle of the cornfields. He continues his ode to corn in his head...
Ethanol is made of corn; that's ADM. Car corn. Like gasoline. But they also use it for scotch, gin and vodka ...Corn and tonic... corn gimlet...corn on the rocks.
Porsche or Porsh-a. I've heard it both ways. Three years in Germany, I should know that. What's the German word for corn? The word I really like saying is "kugelschreiber." That's "pen"-- all those syllables just for "pen."
Hey there, howdy. Hey, Kirk, we got to get out and hit some balls ...Morning...Guten Tag... Whitacre scans the room full of busy co-workers. His secretary, LIZ TAYLOR, 35, wears earrings that are EARS OF CORN made of gold.
What do they pay Kirk. . .What does a guy like that get...100K...I bet he gets a 100. He's just going to sit behind that desk and ride it into the future...
Morning Mark...They have lysine results... She hands him a folder. He opens it and scans the data. He nods.
We adjusted the dextrose again, but the vrus keeps showing up-Thought we had it surrounded this time. We're starting a new set of cultures...
We'll Vet it. We just gotta stay after it. The things eat sugar and that's what we're giving them-- a warm place filled with sugar. They walk into a clean room full of flasks mechanically shaken like paint cans-- it's too loud to speak. Each flask is connected to a feed tube-- the cultures are administered to by a HALF DOZEN BIO TECH WORKERS. Whitacre watches. He focuses on one worker-- she's ASIAN. She adds some nutrients to the feed line.
A positive mental attitude is a real important thing. They've done studies where heart patients who have people praying for them actually do better than ones who don't. There's science for you. The cheerleaders might make a difference in the game after all...How do you know what the electrical energy of a thought actually does when it's out there in the world? It's gotta go somewhere...so you might as well smile. Takes less muscles than frowning... Whitacre closes the door on the very loud room.
The fucking thing is supposed to produce 113 thousand tons annually.
We're not gonna get anywhere near that. We got 150 million dollars in costs over there guys. I can see the fucking thing from my swimming pool and it makes me want to drown myself every morning.
Did the Japanese have these kind of problems with lysine?
We're still having problems with this virus.
I don't want to hear about the damn virus anymore. Terry, what are we losing a month?
We're off like seven million per.
That's not gonna fly much longer. You want to go in there next quarter and tell the board that we're sucking hind tit on this...cuz' I sure don't. He gives Whitacre a cold, hard, we're--done-fucking-around- glare.
Fix the Goddamn plant, or we're gonna shut it down. The last light goes out.
You're not hungry, Corky. Whitacre is distracted. Ginger cuts up Alexander's food.
The pilgrims loved the corn-- they came for the religious freedom but they stayed for the corn-- but its missing three of your eight essential amino acids-- especially lysine. That's why the Indians ate it with beans or lime. You feed a chicken corn and it gets sick. Yo feed it corn and lysine and it goes from egg to supermarket fryer in six months instead of eight... Whitacre gazes over at a plate of fried chicken, and then at his wife. She has gotten dressed up for dinner. She looks pretty.
Breasts and thighs in six months...
You look great.
They got the first wall of the stables up today. You see that?
They're doing this thing in hydroponics where they're feeding lysine to jumbo shrimp... Imagine you're a sh rimp and one day some corn goes floating by, what do you think about that? Alexander smiles.
I don't know what I'd think about that.
There's an opening in Mexico-- they might need me to go down there and get things set up...Alex, what do you think about Mexico?
I thought we were getting horses.
I would rather take a lot of pain killers in a. hotel room than jump off a bridge...Or use a gun. A gun on your temple-- why do that? what does that say? Pain killers, definitely... Lie down in a great big hotel bed-What's, that place in Hong Kong on the Kowloon side? The Regent? What a bed! If you think about it, that doesn't mean anything-- it's normal to think thoughts... His secretary, LIZ TAYLOR, buzzes him on the intercom.
r-- Yeah?
 There's a call, I can't pronounce his name, he said he works for Ajinomoto Corporation. Whitacre picks up.
Mark Whitacre.
Hello, Dr. Whitacre? My name is Fujiwara from Ajinomoto Corp...I want to discuss with you lysine if you have a moment. Liz pokes her head into the office and mouths the words "Good Night" to her boss and leaves him alone with Fujiwara.
Hey, sure. . .How you guys making out over there?
Sixth grade. Marty Blocker used to sell us Charm's Blow Pops for three cents, which was a great deal cuz at Valley Drug they cost a nickel. He said his Dad worked for Charms-- said he invented the Blow Pop and got a special deal-- like a life time supply. Then they opened his locker..cuz of all the ants... In a line.. .His Dad worked for the post office, he came down to the school in his uniform. Nothing ever happened to Marty-- just ants ...He blew off part of his thumb on the 4th of July with an M-80...
Mick you're not going to believe what the hell's happened. I think I know the reason why we've been having all these problems at the plant.
Well, I've only been asking you to come up with one for the past eight weeks. I'm all ears. Whitacre paces. His story comes out in a rush of words. Andreas listens silently.
It's not start-up problems like we thought. It's the Japanese. This guy Fujiwara from Ajinomoto, he's been calling me-- sometimes at work, sometimes at home cuz of the time difference-- you met him, he was here a couple of weeks ago.
Well last night he calls me at home just after 8, and Mick, he knew everything. He says to me, `You remember the total nightmare you had during May, June and July?' And before I can ask him what he means he says, `Those months when ADM was losing about seven million dollars a month in the lysine business?' Whitacre stares at Andreas in shock-- no one outside the company should know that. Andreas is still stone faced.
I couldn't believe it. But, Mick before I can even ask him how he got those numbers, he starts making little comments about us having microbe problems. Jokes, like he's toying with me. Whitacre is fuming now-- his voice unnaturally high.
And then he tells me that one of our highest paid employees is actually an employee of Ajinomoto and is sabotaging the plant. They're injecting some kind of virus into the dextrose and contaminating the whole deal. That's the problem. I'll tell you Mick, it's like Rising Sun, that Crichton book, it's just like it. Fujiwara even said that his boss, Ikeda, would have him killed if he knew he was calling. So I asked him why he was talking to me and he said-- he said-- he wants 10 million dollars. 10 million and he'll tell us who the saboteur is and give us a new lysine bug that's immune to the virus. We could be up and running in three days... Andreas pauses, takes it all in, and then...
How well do you know this guy?
Uh, um, well I met him a few weeks ago when he came over. And then, he called a couple of times...
So, not very well?
Very well? No, I can't really say that. Andreas ponders the situation.
Okay, if you hear from him again-- talk him down on the price. I want you to find out the least amount of money he'd settle for. If we can get a bug that's resistant to the virus, it might be worth it...But, I want you to keep this quiet, if there is a mole, we don't want him to know we're onto him.
Whitacre looks at the swarm of insects around a street light...
The birds eat the bugs, the cars eat the birds, the rust eats the cars and the new construction eats the rust... Ginger interrupts Whitacre's grand plan from across the street...
Corky, Alexander says there's a bat in his room.
The FBI! God, no. Andreas and MARK CHEVIRON, 38, tell Whitacre of his upcoming FBI interview. Cheviron is a barrel chested, linebacker of a man. A former Decatur cop who is now Private Industry's version of a bouncer.
I thought I was supposed to be getting him down on the price. That's what you told me to do and I was doing it.
We're not gonna sit back and let the Japs fuck us sideways.
Of course he's in. If we got a mole then it's a security issue...
I'll be sitting in with the FBI.
But, I already told you guys everything I know. What's the point? Cheviron is annoyed by Whitacre's histrionics.
We don't like the idea of talking to the FBI anymore than you do. Look, they're just going to tape the guy's calls-- and ask you a few questions. No big deal. Whitacre shakes his head, even more upset.
Questions, Jesus.
We know how the FBI works.. .We can control this. Whitacre has his doubts.
Now, they've got the FBI in on it. First they tell me they're going to pay and be done with it, now they want me to talk to the FBI.
The FBI? Why do you need to talk to the FBI? It's their factory. Let them talk to the FBI.
I'm really uncomfortable about this, baby. There are a lot of things going on here.
What does that mean, "things?"
I just mean we have to be careful.
Whatever you do, Corky, no matter what's going on, just be honest with them and tell the truth. Tell the truth no matter what the truth is.
 It's spring time in Nigeria-- you can bet they're loving that. Sitting around watching the days get longer; watching the afternoon go by on their Rolexes and Cartiers. Everyone's just waiting on the mailman... while the poachers make the elephants extinct.
He told me he wanted his payments deposited by wire transfer to numbered bank accounts in Switzerland and the Caribbean.
And when was your last contact with him?
Two days ago. But I think he's getting suspicious. I've dragged this out as long as I can. If we don't get back to him soon he may back out?
And these calls, they've been coming in on your home line? Whitacre looks at Cheviron-- there's clearly a right and wrong answer here.
I have an ADM line at my house-- a business line-- they've been coming in on that.
Drifting from Shepard's face to his ADAM'S APPLE. The knot of his BLACK FBI TIE bobs up and down as he speaks.
I can help with that.
So, that's it then. I can go? Shepard hands Whitacre his card. They shake hands.
I'd like to come out tomorrow and get on that phone.
No problem. Thanks for your time.
You told them the truth, Mark. That's all you can do.
They we're watching me the whole time. Cheviron was in the room. She slips from his arms-- disappointed.
I never even got a chance. She doesn't accept his excuse and heads upstairs to bed.
Tanya called from school-- she has homework questions for you. Whitacre stands in the vestibule alone. He walks through the big house shutting off lights-- he sits in a chair in the huge living room and leafs through an issue of NATIONAL
I go to Cornell and get a Ph. D. and then to Northwestern and get an MBA-- Mick Andreas gets born with the vice president of the United States as his Godfather. He goes- to the Nixon's for Thanksgiving-- my parents died in a car accident when I was three. I wound up in an orphanage. That was my Thanksgiving ...These photographers must wait forever to get these shots... Although I heard a story that sometimes they'll throw a sandwich on the ground to get the panther to come down out of the tree.. .They're just trying to do their jobs.. .Where's the harm-- the panther gets to eat.
Jesus, it's late.. .Hello?
Now my family's being threatened, I can't put up with this.
What?
They're threatening my daughter. She got a call at school. She's fourteen!
Slow down, Mark.
She said the guy sounded Asian. They told her Fujiwara couldn't wait.
Did you call the FBI?
It just happened. He wants an answer. Or, he said she's in trouble.
We'll talk about it in the morning.
I'm thinking about quitting. Moving my family out of here. I can't do this.
We'll talk in the morning. Whitacre puts down the phone and walks through the large, dark house. He opens the bedroom door and the wedge of light finds Ginger already half-asleep. He lies down next to her in bed fully clothed.
You ever mention to Fujiwara where your daughter went to school?
If the guy wants to threaten you-- why not just call you?
He told her to write down the message.
I want her to tell the FBI what they said. Andreas moves toward the phone.
I don't want her talking to the FBI, definitely not.
Why not, Mark? Come on, if she's really in danger.
Then I'll talk to her. Andreas picks up the phone. Whitacre doesn't want that either.
She's scared enough.
If someone's threatening her... A beat. Whitacre collapses-- there's more to this.
Don't call her...No one's threatening. I, uh... A long painful beat.
I made it up. I lied. There wasn't any threat. Cheviron shakes his head in disgust.
Christ, what a waste of time. Andreas lowers his gaze at Whitacre-- he wants an explanation.
I'm no good at this. The FBI guy really got to me last night. He's twisting in the wind.
I figured if you guys thought my daughter was in danger you'd just pay Fujiwara and all this FBI stuff would go away. It was a stupid move on my part. Whitacre's ashamed.
I'm sorry. Stupid, stupid move. He gets up and leaves in humiliation. He wanders through the lobby of ADM in a daze.
What am I supposed to do? I didn't get the FBI involved-- I was told we were paying the money. It's like, `Whitacre go out for a long pass,' and then we run the ball. Look, I admitted I made a mistake, that's more than I can say for most people. Hey, when they found out that Mick's Dad, Dwayne, wrote a check to the Watergate Burglars-- did he admit it? Besides these guys probably own the FBI with the money they have. They probably wanted me to move into Dwayne's old house-- because they've got it wired like in a Crichton novel... He wanders into his office.
Sid Hulse wants to know if you can have dinner at seven instead of seven-thirty and Marty Allison called...
We're into shrimp now, fish, too. Tilapia, it's like Orange Roughie but lighter-they're growing out there next to the corn...
Someone told me they bugged the dining room-- the John, too. Might be paying off the waitresses here at the club. That's how business get done. Clients go to relieve themselves. ADM knows...
 Mark got them abroad.
Nigeria? Whitacre shoots him a look.
Not funny, Sid.
You're telling me. Sid laughs. Ginger doesn't get the joke.
Mark's never been to Nigeria.
So, where are you off to tomorrow?
West coast swing-- I gotta get out there and kick some Japanese butt.
So, I'll see you in a couple of weeks. She's still digesting what's on the card-- trying to act natural.
Then you guys can maybe have a chance to play some golf. Whitacre throws an arm around her.
There should be a TV show about a guy who calls home one day-- and he's there. He answers-- he's talking to himself only it's someone else. He's somehow divided into two and the second one of him drives away and the rest of the show is about him trying to find the guy...
Should I get Alexander out of the house?
It's not like that-- it'll be OK.
What do they do in school to the kids who can't keep a secret-- no BMW for those boys.
Just tell them everything. We'll leave. I don't like what this company is doing to you.
This is a chance to go somewhere else. You said Mexico...
I may tell them at some point, but not now. Right now I'm going to follow the company line.
Mark, ADM is not more powerful than the FBI. You can't tell me that.
It's more complicated than that. Her face is a mask of determination.
Mark, if you don't tell them I will. Behind him the drapes are illuminated by headlights in the drive. He is desperate-- he softly repeats.
I can't, not now. The door bell rings. She opens the door.
Good evening, Agent Shepard, this is my wife Ginger. Whitacre knows he has to keep the two of them apart.
I know it's late. I'll be out of your hair in a minute, just show me where the, uh...The line in question...
Right, the office line is upstairs. Shepard and Whitacre head upstairs leaving Ginger behind.
Any calls since yesterday...
It's tomorrow there. When it's ten at night here, it's three in the afternoon in Tokyo...
Simple device here, just make Go ahead open up to your sure you hit the record wife, see what it gets you. button and the play button Spend the rest of your life when he calls and you'll see explaining why your career a red light come on-- don't went out the window, followed hit rewind or you'll record by your wife after the golf over it. pro. And your kids after some angle dust and the police are right back here.
Hit the record button, right.
I'll give you a call tomorrow and we can test it out.
Great. Hey, thanks for coming by, Brian. Have a good night.
Good night. Good night, Mrs. Whitacre. Shepard walks toward his car. Ginger and Mark linger.
 Are you going to say something or am I? Ginger pushes past him.
Brian?
You gotta minute. Whitacre walks past his wife toward the car. Ginger squeezes his hand as he passes her on the steps.
Most of what we do is to impress girls-- I bet there are guys-- like circus guys who fall off the tight rope and on the way down all they think about are girls until they hit the ground-- not even about growing wings real fast-- just girls going by-They were going to find out anyway cuz' of Mick... Who knows what Mick and Dwayne have been telling them about me already.
You want to go back inside?
I think they might have it bugged. We're safer out here. Shepard is confused.
Bugged? What? Whitacre takes a moment-- but decides to go on.
This used to be Dwayne Andreas' house, you know that?
I'm aware of that.
There are things I know, but if I decide to tell you what's going on, could I be prosecuted for it?
I can't provide you with immunity, but any information you tell me about your involvement in criminal activity would be discussed with the US attorney's office in a favorable light. Whitacre stares forward-- a beat. Shepard gets out his notebook.
Everything I told you yesterday about Fujiwara was true-- except one thing. I never received a call from him on the office line. Shepard looks at Whitacre-- he's confused.
Why did you tell me that you did?
Before I spoke with you, Mick Andreas and Mark Cheviron coached me on what to say. They told me to tell you that the calls came in on my business line, instead of my home line.
Why? Whitacre pauses again. It's too late to turn back.
What I'm about to tell you involves something very large. This extortion attempt by Fujiwara is nothing compared to it. Shepard says nothing.
It involves price fixing in the lysine business. I've been in several meetings with our Japanese and Korean competitors in the past few months where the sole purpose has been to fix prices. ADM made me go to these meetings. Shepard writes furiously, struggling to see in the dark.
That's why they wanted me to lie. Fujiwara's calling on my home line. But, so are the people we fix prices with. They didn't want you to hear those conversations so they told me to say the Fujiwara calls came in on the ADM line. But, I knew if you guys ever started looking at the records you'd see all these calls I have to Japan. And that's what scared me. Nobody has more calls than me. If you ever figured out about the price fixing, I'd be the fall guy. Shepard considers the explanation.
Who told you to participate in these price fixing talks? Whitacre pauses, summons his conviction.
I'm operating under the direction of Mick and Dwayne Andreas.
Who's Dad talking to?
A friend who needs his help. She walks down the hall pausing by a window. She can see the two men talking in the car. She turns off the light and gets into bed-- staring at the ceiling.
Mick and Cheviron had me call Fujiwara today and tell him to stop calling until things cool off.
They told you to tell him to stop calling?
They're afraid of what you guys might find out. Can you give me a tape recorder? I can prove this if you give me a tape recorder. I'll take a polygraph if that helps. Shepard is out of pages in his notebook.
I want to thank you for being honest with me tonight.
You're not going to ask questions at ADM about all this? It'd be my job for sure.
No, what was said here was confidential. I'm going to speak to my superiors Mark, and then we'll be in touch. Whitacre goes back inside his dark house and heads upstairs-- he seems unburdened.
He seems like a real good guy...I mean just a straight shooter. I think we really got along-- I bet he wouldn't mind if I called him "Brian" instead of "Agent Shepard." "Bri." "Hey, Bri..." This must be very different for him. Talking to a guy like me instead of a bank robber or a drug dealer...
I could see us fishing or whatever. What a good listener-- you don't meet one of those everyday. Shepard takes out his cell phone. We hear ringing on the other end. A sleepy voice answers.
Yeah, hello. Paisley.
It's Brian. I just got done talking to Whitacre, there's something much bigger going on here.
What happened last night?
They put a recorder on my line.
And that's it?
Yeah, and I was instructed that when Fujiwara calls, I'm to record the conversation. Whitacre gets buzzed by his secretary.
Your wife on two.
Well, make sure you do it because they have ways of checking to see if you're going to or not. Whitacre picks up the call and the big bully goes away. We hear Ginger very excited on the other end of the phone...
OK...0K...slow down... tell me what happened... Whitacre listens, leafs through his mail.
Does anyone win that Publisher's Clearing House thing? Someone must, right? Otherwise it's against the law...Someone gets a million dollars or someone goes to jail...
60 minutes or someone would come after Ed MacMahon. You can't use the US mail that way...And a guy like Ed MacMahon would never get involved...
.a pound of bacon, a peanut butter sandwich, some vitamins- anything that ADM has a hand in-- it's all fixed, that's what he's telling me. Basically, everyone in this country is the victim of corporate crime by the time they finish breakfast... Medford studies the ingredients of her yogurt.
So, what do we have? Anti-trust violations, providing false information...
Who can you trust? Your government? Your employer? Your wife? You trust your wife ...OK, but what's the divorce rate?
He told me that the motto at ADM is..."The competitors are our friends, and the customers are our enemies."
Did you discuss with him the notion of wearing a wire? Is he willing to...
You think the automobile companies can't make a car tomorrow that gets a hundred miles to the gallon... You think the TV networks don't know who's going to win the World Series before the season starts...
One potential problem I see going forward with ADM is this guy Cheviron. He wants to be kept in the loop on everything we're doing.
"Paranoid" is what people who are trying to take advantage call you in an effort to get you to drop your guard-- I read that the other day in an in-flight magazine...
You told me they were only going to tap one line!
They are only monitoring one line.
That's not true. Not true. I just talked to my wife and some woman named Regina from the phone company called saying both our lines are tapped. My home phone! Cheviron is sick of Whitacre's antics. He doesn't believe a word. It gets a bit heated.
Come on, the phone company doesn't call people and say, `hello just thought we'd let you know, the FBI is tapping your phone lines.'
Then why would Regina say that?
She didn't say it, you're saying it.
Call my wife. Call Regina. Cheviron's tone becomes condescending-- like he's talking to a sick person.
Fine, Mark. I will. Whitacre storms out.
I don't like wool on skin. Not even that merino wool they have at Field's in Chicago. Ginger likes it, cuz it's form fitting, but she likes avocados and who wants that texture in their mouth?
Who would make up someone named Regina?
FBI. Shepard.
Brian, it's Mark Cheviron at ADM.
Yeah, Mark.
Hey, I asked you guys a couple of days ago which lines at Mark Whitacre's house you were going to be monitoring and we agreed it would just be the business line. So, that's all you did right? Beat.
I really can't answer that.
 It doesn't taste the same-- when Dwayne Andreas got the government to subsidize corn farmers-- it all changed. Corn syrup got to be cheaper than sugar-- so they went with the high fructose corn syrup from ADM.. .They said you couldn't tell the difference, but that's just a lie-Like when they replaced butter with topping at the movies.. .and you know who was behind that...
We've decided that we're not going to be cooperating with any further FBI requests. Whitacre puts it all together. He is outraged. He turns on Cheviron.
I knew it! I knew it! I knew we should never have done this. I told you, but you wouldn't listen. They said just the office line... Cheviron has to eat shit here in front of Andreas.
Evidently, they were lying to us, too.
Sounds to me like you can't keep track of what the FBI is doing. The phone buzzes.
I'm working on this deal in Sweden, I have to take this. Whitacre picks up the phone. Andreas and Cheviron continue.
I told Shepard we're done working with them as of now.
Damn right. Whitacre picks up the phone. It's not Sweden.
Mark, it's Brian can you talk? Whitacre shifts uncomfortably and tries to cover in front of Mick and Cheviron-- he puts on a phony cheerful voice.
 Yeah, hey it's good to hear from you.
I'd like to bring my Supervisor by later, around six.
Great. Hey, I got Mr. Andreas in here right now. OK, I'll talk to you soon. He hangs up the phone and turns back to Mick and Terry. Whitacre smiles warmly, and then lies through his teeth.
So, what do I do if this Shepard guy calls?
You let me know and I'll pass it on to my Dad. But, you're done talking to them...
The only listening device was the recorder, Mark.
We had a trap and trace device on the home line-- but we can't listen in with that.
However, the phone company calling people and telling them about our Intel gathering is, well, our face is red on that one.
Did you bring the expense reports we talked about? Whitacre gives them a folder of paperwork.
It's all there-- Tokyo, Hong Kong, Paris and Mexico City. And under...Whitacre thinks about one thing while discussing another with the agents. He is a gifted man in this capacity. His thoughts take precedence here.
Just last week Mick and Terry I read in the Geographic that were in Florida with the Corn the skin in ears grows from Refiner's Association. They the inside out-- conveyor would have their regular belt style. That's how they meetings during the day and stay clean. You could make a then at night they'd get dot with a felt tip inside together and work out the and watch it move down your price fixing... neck.
.Six months later a liter of Pepsi costs five cents more.
When's the next meeting?
January-- somewhere in Asia. Paisley takes it all in. He cozies up to Whitacre.
Mark, I gotta ask you, why are you doing this? We know you lied to us about the phone line and you're afraid of that. But, now you're telling us all this other stuff out of the blue. I gotta ask you why? The light disappears from Whitacre's eyes.
Things are going on I don't approve of. I mean, I'm a biochemist-- But, they pulled me into the business side and they're doing things that are illegal. They said...
. if I was going to grow with ADM I had to be a part of the business side of things. Rusty pulls the garage down on the cars.
When they told me to lie, I had to lie. I lied to you guys and I feel real bad about it. This explains the bind Whitacre finds himself in.
You look at yourself as wearing a white hat and they're wearing black hats.
That's a good way to put it. You know, when I was a kid my folks died in an automobile accident. I was maybe six at the time and this wealthy man in Ohio adopted me. He owned amusement parks and he did real well for himself, real well. I got a big break-- went to a good school and all-- I adopted two kids of my own. I just want to do the right thing.
Well, Mark, do you think you'd be willing to go a few steps further in helping us?
What do you mean?
Would you be willing to wear a wire? We don't have any other sources at this time. We need your help. Whitacre considers the request-- a chance to be a hero.
Now you realize that by doing this, sometime down the line you could be the guy who has to testify against your fellow executives, people you've worked with now for years. That won't be easy. He looks around at the good life Whitacre has amassed.
I'll use my beeper to signal you when it's time to set up a meeting. Shepard gets out his beeper and hits a button- "BEEEEP."
When you hear this-- you call me. Then Shepard pulls a tape recorder out of his jacket-- a simple little Radio Shack Dictaphone model. He gives it to Whitacre.
You'll be risking a lot. Whitacre picks up the recorder. The idea of being a White Knight only becomes real when they hand you a sword.
I was up in Wisconsin last week-- and the guy who is running for Governor...
Tommy Thompson.
The Republican guy.
I was told they want funds-- a campaign contribution, but I told them we're already at out limit.
You can go over the limit-- it's just a small fine.
That's what I was saying. If they want a thousand dollars-- you give a thousand. So what if it ends up costing us nine thousand after the fine.
Twelve thousand after taxes. The men laugh.
If the guy's asking you for money, try not giving it to him and see what happens. Just make sure Dad is behind it... Is Dad asking for them?
Yeah.
Okay then.
I'll let Howard know. He gets out his cell phone and begins dialing. A FEDEX EMPLOYEE walks by with a BUTTERFLY BANDAGE on his nose.
There are these butterflies in Central America-- they have poison in their wings. Just enough poison to stop a bird heart. But, the birds know this somehow so they don't eat them... Through the phone we hear...
Hi, you've reached Mark Whitacre in ADM's Bioproducts division. Leave a message. Whitacre punches in his code...
They're like blue, orange and yellow. . .real pretty-But, poisonous to birds. Over the phone we hear a message.
Mark, it's Marty Allison calling from London, we need to... Whitacre hits a button.
Message deleted.
But, there are other ones-- butterflies-- they're orange, blue and yellow, too. But, no poison... Over the phone we hear the next message.
Beeeeep. Whitacre deletes it and hangs up.
They're just flying around looking dangerous-- getting by on their looks. Wilson and Andreas DISCUSS SOME FEMALE EMPLOYEE IN A MOST UNTOWARD WAY. They laugh and wait for Whitacre by the doors.
Jesus, Mark this is important bioproduct stuff were discussing. The men enter the building and head for a bank of elevators.
I'm sorry guys I gotta return a call. The plant. I'll meet you. Andreas and Wilson hit the elevator button. Whitacre paces across the lobby and talks on the phone.
The case is getting some attention from the bureau, Mark. There's another agent working with me now. We need to meet.
Yeah, but I'm away now.
Any word from Fujiwara?
I think he's out of the picture.
Based on what? Is Andreas telling you to say that?
I'll let you guys know if I hear anything. I can't talk now. I gotta meeting. Whitacre hangs up. And jogs toward the elevators. Wilson and Andreas hold the door.
The guy is on a plane half his life, and in meetings for the rest.
Any tapes of these meetings?
Not yet, Mr. Whitacre believes his life may be in danger...
.He's closely watched at work and there's reason to believe that ADM has bugged his home. He's under a great deal of pressure. Whitacre looks at the CUP HOLDERS in the Beemer.
The German word for "cup" is tasse, and saucer-- that's untertasse-- the "undercup." What do we have-- "cup" and "saucer." Where does that get you? Whitacre pulls into the dealership and screeches to a halt in front of the BMW SALESMAN. Whitacre smiles and nods.
We had a good day at work, Tom. A real good day...
You should probably take your gun off when you meet him-- weapons make him pretty nervous.
You gotta feel for the guy, he tells us the truth one day and wakes up the next with two lives instead of one.
Hey, Mark it's Marty calling again and...
Message deleted. . .Next message.
Whitacre punches a button.
Message deleted. Whitacre punches the buttons on his cell phone angrily.
It's Mark, Brian. It's been hard for me to return a page. I'm out of the country.
We need to know if you had any further contact from Fujiwara?
I told you, the guy has stopped calling.
What about the price fixing? Have you been able to make any tapes.
I think you guys hanging around has really scared ADM straight, too-- word is we're going to do things by the book. Mick said it's over. No more price fixing. A pause. Shepard is confused.
What? When did this happen? This conversation.
Mick sat me down and said 'Mark, we're going to start doing things your way.'
Mark, the FBI knows about these crimes-- we're gonna investigate either way. You told us yourself.
Either way? What does "either way" mean?
We really need to get together. Both Shepard and Whitacre are losing their patience.
I told you, it's a different attitude now, a different approach.
Everything OK?
Yeah, fine. Kids. Where we're we? Whitacre reaches underneath his suit coat into his shirt pocket and pulls out his pen.
Uh, Mark... Whitacre's FOUNTAIN PEN has exploded in his shirt-- leaving a Rorschach across his chest. Richter gestures toward the stain. Whitacre stares at the STAIN.
One of the Japanese guys told me a story-- this lysine salesman is in a meeting with someone from Conagra or some other company, I don't know-and the client leans forward and says, `I have the same tie as you... only the pattern is reversed."-- and then he drops dead. Face down on the
then... Dead... Brain aneurism...
.Maybe everyone has a sentence like that; a little time bomb..."I have the same tie as you... only the patterns reversed."
There it is, "High Fructose Corn Syrup." Shepard isn't giving up on Whitacre, yet.
He said Andreas called him into a marketing meeting.
The government ought to charge him for the room. Shepard's cell phone rings. Herndon sighs--
Here it comes.
FBI... .Uh...huh. You're being honest with me, here... It's been months Mark-- we need some tapes.
I gotta go Bri, Andreas is coming. Whitacre opens his brief case and takes out the micro cassette recorder. He looks at it like it's a murder weapon.
 Mark, we could be tracing this phone call...
I can't live two lives. They just gave me a hundred thousand dollar raise. I can't risk my job for you guys. I've got a family. I'm building stables across the road.
But, you told us...
The price fixing is over. - .the price of lysine is down to... And then remembering his lie. Feebly.
Just a minute, Mick... The windows of the BMW are fogging up.
Mark, listen to me, the only logical thing for you to do is cooperate.
And what if I don't?
Then somebody else will and you'll end up being a defendant.
For how long, Brian? How long does this go on for? Whitacre pushes the buttons on the recorder. He hits eject. There's no tape in the cradle.
I wish I could answer that. Sometimes years. We'll need a lot of tapes-- maybe hundreds.
But, the tapes won't say anything. It's over. Mick said.. .New policy.
Fine, if that's what he said, then I want to hear the tape. We need tapes, Mark. A beat-- he finally admits it. The windows are completely fogged.
I didn't make any, OK? I didn't make any because it's over. How can I prove it to you?
I like my hands. I think they're probably my favorite part of my body. I think that can be used to my advantage in social situations-- if I can get people focused on my hands then I can get a good result in the meeting.
Now, Bob's going to ask you What do we lose-- a liter of questions, Mark. And you perspiration while we sleep? just need to answer them with That all goes into the a "yes" or "no." That's all mattress? Incredible. you have to say.
Are you married?
Yes.
Have you ever lied to better your position?
No.
We're you born in 1957?
Yes.
Did Fujiwara ever telephone you at home and tell you there was a mole at ADM?
Yes.
Before this year did you ever lie to someone you really trusted?
No. Whitacre strains to see the read-out to see how he's doing.
Did Fujiwara say he would tell you who the mole was for 10 million dollars?
The needle traces a reassuringly straight line across the grid.
Yes. And under...
Is there currently any price In Tokyo they sell little fixing activity in the girl underwear in the vending Bioproducts division of ADM? machines right on the main drag-the Ginza...or whatever. Guys in suits buying used girl panties, how is that OK?
No.
Now, I'm going to ask you the same questions again to make sure the results are consistent. Whitacre nods and smiles. Watches the needle- rock steady.
I wonder where Bob carries his gun. FBI agents have to wear them at all times-- even when they're off duty.
Are you married?
Yes.
I'd like to see Dwayne Andreas hooked up to one of these.
Have you ever lied to better your position?
No. Once I told the stewardess I was claustrophobic so I could get an aisle seat... And under...
You can get dressed, Mark. The door closes and the agents look at each other.
They're all different. Every flake is it's own one-of-a-kind version of itself. And some people still don't believe in God. I mean what more proof do you need than that-- Herndon and Shepard re-enter.
Hey, how'd I do?
Mark, we have some problems...
Wait a minute, I watched the machine, I didn't see any changes...
Mark, you don't know how to read a polygraph.
I've heard these things, they're not always 100 per cent accurate. I've been telling the truth. Definitely. Herndon plays the bad cop.
Mark, you splattered the walls with ink. Come on now, extortionists don't just leave their name and number then go away.
I know it's tough keeping it all bottled up inside, keeping it a secret. But, there's only one good choice for you. That's all there's ever been. There's something you're hiding, something you're keeping from us. But, the only way to protect yourself is to be completely honest.
Okay. Shepard gets another form out of his brief-case. Not a basic 302 this time-- it's A CONFESSION.
You realize this document can be used against you in a court of law. Whitacre nods grimly.
What happened with Fujiwara and the saboteur? A beat.
I made it up. I had to... Shepard and Herndon cringe on his behalf. The floodgates open. Shepard transcribes the confession.
.We've had problems at the plant with viruses, we're way behind projections. Dwayne was thinking about shutting us down and everyone was on me to fix it. 'Let's just blame it all on Whitacre.' That's how it is there. It was my job they were talking about. We just moved here from Europe-they made me VP.
And the reason you agreed to help ADM purchase a new bug?
I wanted to be part of the team. I thought it would help my relationship with Mick if he thought I would do something like that.
And what about the price fixing? It isn't over is it? There's no "new attitude."
If there's anything else you want to add, now's the time. You need to tell us.
No, that's the full story.
We want tapes, mark. He slides the confession across to Whitacre who nods and signs. He gives both agents Christmas cards and smiles.
I'll give you all the tapes you want. Merry Christmas you guys.
Seven thirty A.M., Wednesday, March seventeenth, 1994. I have just parked my car and am now entering the office... Whitacre gets on the elevator with Terry Wilson. Whitacre's a little off this morning... s-- WHITACRE Terrance Wilson, President of our corn businesses, did you speak with our friends in Japan?
He wasn't in.
I heard from Mimoto last night-- he is pissed. He said there's not going to be any peace in lysine until we bring production down like we promised. Theelevator doors opens.
In 92 we did exactly what we told them we would do in terms of volume. Exactly. Right now, there's no promise.
He said he'd like to talk to you at some point...
Be right there lookin' at him. Say, "listen here you little mousy motherfucker." Wilson peels off into his office. Whitacre continues on across the open trading floor toward his office. He speaks under his breath to nobody-- smiling at the world.
That was Terry Wilson talking about setting volume and price levels with our Japanese competitor-- Ajinomoto Corporation. Whitacre enters his own office--- talking to himself.
By the way, there was no discussion with Mimoto last night. That was all for illustration purposes only. I wanna make that clear- no discussion with Mimoto last night. He turns off the tape recorder.
Hey, Mark you don't really need to narrate the tapes for us when you're making them.
Right. Absolutely. Not a problem.
And you can talk less.
I think I did on this one. Whitacre gives Herndon another tape and a small box.
Don't force the conversation.
But, they're good right? I mean, you guys wouldn't believe what goes on at these meetings.
I've got well over two million frequent flier miles.. .maybe more. The equivalent of two trips to the moon. I'm pretty much platinum across the board. Free upgrades... sometimes they'll move me from business to first just cuz the computer tells them I'm there...
And you can redeem them for anything now...A Movado watch or a fly-fishing vacation in Montana... Whitacre tells the driver...
American Embassy please.
It's like 5000 miles every time I go to Zurich, Paris, Munich...1 don't even know how many miles are in the Delta account...I just give Ginger the statements... I'm probably one of the youngest guys ever to go over a million miles...I get a letter from the CEO every year thanking me...it's a form letter, but it looks like he's really signing it...They probably walk in one day and he signs like a hundred while he's on the phone... Whitacre gets out of the car and walks into the embassy. Shepard meets him an ushers him into a room where a phone is hooked up to a recorder.
You should probably use your ADM credit card... Whitacre dials the phone.
Sure, great. You make it some place good for dinner last night?
I just ate in the hotel...
The hotel...What'd you have? The call rings through.
Hey, it's Mark Whitacre calling from Paris for Mick Andreas...Hey, it's Mark. I just got out of the lysine meeting... It went great...I think we can keep it at around a buck and a quarter no problem... Andunder... Shepard sneezes.
He follows Shepard's hands from Kleenex, to coffee cup, to pen, to a tug on his ear...
Now what happens? Something you breathe in on an airplane. Some little bacteria and now it's on his hands, the cup, the phone... Probably got it from his kids and now I'll spend the weekend with it in bed...And I'll miss a few days next week, or Alexander'11 run a fever and who pays for that? Where does the FBI weigh in on that- - as a cooperating witness-- what does it say about exposure to airborne contaminants...I3 ADM compensated for me missing work?
 This is tape seven, side two.. .Chicago, O'hare airport... He looks at himself in the mirror. And then down at his feet. A BLACK CHUCKLE'S CANDY lies on the floor swarmed by ants.
The black chuckle being carted away by ants inches from his wing tips.
That's a big break, right there-- definitely. There's no choices to be made. No debate. It's there-- you're an ant-- you eat it-- you bring it back for the other ants.. .They don't say they'd rather have the cherry flavored one... Real- simple to live like that.
Whitacre returns from the bathroom. He puts the TAPE RECORDER/FOLDER on the table. Wilson rests his cocktail ON
We cannot have one section of the world where it works and the rest of the world where it doesn't. It will not last...
Debate and discussion. They just keep the black one from making it home...
We would obviously play the game. But, the Koreans and the Japanese...
.They'll cheat.
It'll never work then. A TRAY OF DRINKS attached to a WALKING CENTERFOLD goes by. Wilson leers...
Look, everyone has to share Terry doesn't like me very numbers. It's so goddamn much ...He's got blotchy simple. How the hell else skin... What causes that would you do it? blotchiness?? It must mean It's what we do in the citric something medical... He'll acid business and look at the have a stroke and someone price of vitamins. will say-- `he was blotchy... it happens.'
Let's not forget that if prices went up in Europe it's because we talked in Mexico first.
That's right, you made it happen.
(loud because of the
Mark, these are just the kind of tapes we need.
 It didn't just go up like that-- you made it happen.
And we're getting our marching orders from Andreas-it goes all the way up.
(loud because of the
We need to improve the quality of the recordings...
Why don't you guys just bug the building?
It's not that easy, Mark. There're a lot legal issues...
Give me your pants. Whitacre undoes the pants of his SAGE GREEN SUIT.
Being able to do two things at once is a big part of success. I try and do abdominal exercises... isometrics... even when I'm at a meeting. Tensing. Holding. And then releasing. And there are leg ones I do in the car. I'll even floss in the shower while the conditioner is in my hair. During the part where you're just supposed to leave it in. Those things can really add up to a significant time savings.
Hey, Rusty, check this out. Whitacre gets out of the car and places his briefcase on the hood.
What do you think?
But, wait. Whitacre opens the briefcase and pulls a secret panel to reveal a TAPE RECORDER. He couldn't be more proud.
That's a Nagra model number 34-A, right there. The bureau had that custom made for me-- Mark Whitacre secret agent double 0, fourteen.
Cuz I'm twice as smart as double 0 seven.
Whatever happened to that girl who was working for us-- didn't she move to California? What's her name, Tina?
She's getting married.
My Tina is getting married?
Two or three weekends from now.
That won't last for very long. She's kind of a do-do head, you know? She'll be back. I just hope she doesn't get pregnant. Fuck up her body.
Uh.
Nice body. It'd ruin her tits. She's got the greatest tits in the world... He leans in to Whitacre.
In the world. Whitacre looks out the window at white billowing clouds.
When polar bears hunt, they crouch down by a hole in the ice and wait for a seal to pop up. They keep one paw over their nose so that they blend in. Cuz' they've got those black noses. They'd blend in perfectly if not for the nose...
I'm just gonna hit the head here.
So the question is. How do they know their noses are black? From looking at other polar bears? Do they see their reflections in the water? And think, "I'd be invisible if not for that." That seems like a lot of thinking for a bear.
There's something great about walking into a conference room when there's a pad of paper and a pencil in front of every chair. . .Most guys with a science background don't get to see what goes on...
Usually the hotel's name is embossed on the pencils and they have someone who sharpens them to perfect points like collie dog noses-- that's what they remind me of. Maybe they come from the factory that way. And there's always a plate of danish...danishes?-- an almond thing-- or a cheese danish with a big cherry blob in the middle...
The almond thing makes a lot of crumbs and I usually use my pencil to sweep them away like one of those tools professional waiters use at the Decatur Club...
Hey, neat.
Good luck with the Japs. And as your lawyer I'd advise you to pat `em down for wires. Andreas laughs at the suit, but Whitacre's not laughing. The limo pulls away.
Uh, should we really pat them down?
They don't have the balls to mess with ADM.
When it's over the board of directors at ADM is gonna understand. They're gonna see the position I was in and that I acted in everyone's best interest, I think that's the only conclusion they can reach...
I mean I'm the youngest division President they've ever had and I speak a number of languages fluently...
Look away, Mark, look away... Whitacre's face fills the wide angle lens. Shepard and Herndon huddle around the video monitor. HERNDON IS DRESSED LIKE A UNIFORMED HOTEL WORKER. SHEPARD is still dressed like a G-man from the 50's.
I told him it was in the lamp.
We already spent more than one year, uh, to get better market situation in lysine.
We talked a little bit about it in Paris, but we need to have an understanding on volume.
Widen out, Bri, we need a wide shot of these guys working together. Still struggling with the joystick.
We have a big board of directors. We have public shareholders. Like you, we've suffered. Prices are nowhere near where we hoped they would be. Now the question is, if the market grows, who gets it? Ikeda goes over to the easel and makes a PIE CHART as a visual aid for Andreas' proposal.
.If Kyowa Hakko, Miwon and Cheil Corporation each get two thousand tons, then we can divide up the rest. If we're going to have any stability at all... And under...
I think some of these ADM guys lie about their golf scores. It doesn't even matter and they still lie about it and that says something about character.
His briefcase seems to be the source of the clicking. Ikeda gets Andreas' attention.
We need some specific number.
What would you be willing to accept? Isn't that the question? More CLICKING. Whitacre nudges his briefcase.
What's Mark doing? They pan over to Whitacre. He's OPENING the briefcase with the hidden tape recorder.
What an idiot!
The others will say that ADM has already eaten all the growth.
You gotta remember we have a lot more capacity than we're using. We could be growing twenty thousand tons, isn't that right, Mark? Whitacre is still fiddling with the case.
Mark? What're you doing? Andreas crosses the room and, without looking inside at the recorder that is ruining his life, shuts the case.
I need your input here.
 ADM will be allocated it's recent production plus a number we will call alpha.
What did he say-- I can't understand him.
 I don't care what you call it, just as long as we get what we want. The men on the tape all laugh. Andreas walksaway.Whitacre and Ikeda shake hands. And then Whitacre ripsoffthe sheet of paper from the easel with the PIE CHART onit.
 I guess I should probably keep this, huh? Shepard freezes the tape triumphantly.
Where's the agreement? There's just a discussion.
If this isn't an agreement, then what are they doing there?
Don't get bogged down in the words, look at the actions.
I've looked. I see a chart with a bunch of numbers. But, I can't pinpoint any agreement per se.
What do you want? The guy is standing there dividing up the market plain as day. Herndon opens up the evidence bag and shows her the flip- chart page that Whitacre took at the end of the meeting-- a smoking gun.
It could just be a proposal. All the other companies weren't there. Nobody used the word "agreement." I'm just telling you-- as a lawyer-- what their lawyers are going to say. Herndon and Shepard look at Whitacre FROZEN ON THE MONITOR. They are discouraged.
I don't know how much more we can ask of the guy.
I'm not going to move for indictments with this. I need more.
I feel like a real jerk here, but I need the dough.
Nah, we'll figure something out.
I hope it's not a big deal, but I've been looking at a house and I need the cash back.
Marty, when I hired you, what did you want?
Fifty grand.
But, I went to Wilson and told him you wouldn't work here for less than seventy-five-- and I got it. You were the first guy I hired.
Mark, you've always been real generous with me and... Whitacre waves off the flattery.
I gotta leave town for a couple of days, but when I get back, here's what I want you to do... And under...
I like to think of myself as a good gift-giver. It shows that you're thinking about the other person even when they're not right in front of you.
We got a problem, Mark. You can't take our equipment to Japan. We have no jurisdiction.
So I'll take notes like in Vancouver. Whitacre takes out his Dictaphone and puts it on the bed.
Well, sure, but there's something else I'd like you to think about.
Okay.
Like I said, we can't give you any recording equipment.
But, if you taped the meeting on your own and than gave us the tapes...
So you want me to make a tape.
We're not allowed to say that. But, the sooner we get enough evidence, the sooner you can stop the taping.
What if I get caught there?
I don't know anything about Japanese laws, but if you're arrested, we may not be able to provide much help.
That's why we need these lysine association meetings on US soil.. .Make it easier to wrap this up. Shepard picks up the recorder.
You can't use any of our equipment.
I wonder if Brian and Bob are really allowed to do that-- it seems kind of shady...I probably should've gotten them to sign something just in case. Turned the tables on them seeing how I'm the one going above and beyond the call of duty... He heads out of the mall.
Do we want to talk about Guys tape meetings all the Latin America? time-- let's say a guy is dyslexic and he needs to take notes.. .What's he gonna do? Mimoto and Ikeda enter.
Good morning, we are late.
No problem, no problem, you lost twenty- thousand tons, but, hey... The group laughs at the WACKY PRICE FIXING JOKE. Whitacre checks his watch.
Excuse me...I gotta take a moment.
I read this thing about moustaches on the flight back from Zurich...What facial hair says to women about a man's level of honesty. I think maybe it was in Esquire Magazine... Some psychological theory...
I should ask Brian and Bob about it- - get the FBI's point of view...
Imperial Palace Hotel, side two tape one... Just as he is putting the tape back into his jacket-- the door opens. ONE OF THE LYSINE EXECS enters.
Things are going well. Whitacre conceals the recorder.
Want to get back in there.
Doesn't the dog ever get the bone?
Yeah, I hear it happens every once in awhile. It's a disaster, they can never get that dog to run again.
Listen, Mitch, Mr. Boyles wants me to tell you how much the bureau appreciates...
A million dollars.
What?
A million dollars in a numbered account in Switzerland. IBG Bank International in Zurich.
You sure as hell turned greedy overnight.
.And my brother out now.
Your brother is a convicted felon, Mitch.
Then get yourself another snitch. Tarrance responds with a string of expletives and threats to knock McDeere's teeth down his throat. His verbal assault is put to a halt when his phone rings. It's Holly Hunter calling from the nearby parking lot. She plays Tarrance an incriminating tape of what he has just said. McDeere is wearing a wire. McDeere has him now.
You want to reconsider?
Most of the guys the government gets to do the tough stuff are probably drug dealers and mafia guys. I'm probably the only guy like me they've ever met--
Maybe there's some guy who spied on the Russians and they had to put him in that witness protection unit... It's just me and some Russian guy who's now a girl's soccer coach in New Mexico or something...
Were you with Brian and Bob all this time?
Yeah, we had to go over some tapes and...
Mark, Brian called-- I know you weren't with him. Busted.
Did you go again?
I needed to unwind.
You've seen that picture like five times now... She turns on the light to discuss her concerns. Mark is standing there without his shirt on-- A LARGE PATCH OF HAIR is missing from the middle of his chest.
What's wrong with that?
What's wrong? Why is your chest shaved, Mark? Why are there holes cut in your suit clothes? Why aren't you a part of this family anymore? Whitacre tries to laugh off her concern. He sits down on the bed and puts her hand on his smooth chest.
You know they needed to shave me for the tape recorder. They needed to... I'm a part...
I need you at home, the kids need you to be their father.
I'm doing all this for you and the kids. I didn't ask for this-- but I want to give this family everything. That's why I'm working so much.
I don't know who you work for anymore, Mark. Do you? A beat. He smiles warmly at her.
Hey guys, I was in the neighborhood. I got some more tapes.
Thanks, Mark. Come on in.
And I've learned some important things recently. I've been told I'm probably going to be the next President of ADM. He glows.
Really?
Who told you that?
And that's not all. I'd say that ten of the products produced by ADM are price fixed.
Ten?
I would estimate that for all the companies involved, the total extra profit is in the range of 800 million to one billion dollars. That's just from the price-fixing.
Can you tell us what products? Whitacre smiles-- he's got something else on his mind.
You know, Brian, if all these companies are charged, they're going to be paying an awful lot in fines. Don't you think?
I don't know, they might end up paying. But, nobody knows for sure how this will turn out.
We still need to get everyone together making an actual agreement before we have a case.
Sure, sure I know that. But, I've taken a lot of risks and I need to think about my family.
What do you mean?
Well, I'd like it if, in their fine, ADM was ordered to pay me ten year's salary.
Well, Mark...
It's only fair. Also, one other thing.
I never expected this investigation would go on as long as it has. It's been almost two years and I think I should get total immunity if I agree to cooperate through the end.
I can't grant you immunity Mark, you know that. Whitacre smiles wishfully like a big kid. Herndon senses that something's up.
Hey, Mark, it's kind of warm in here-- why don't you take off your jacket, sit down and we can talk about this.
Oh, no, Bob, that's okay. Let me know if you want to reconsider. Whitacre leaves. Herndon looks at Shepard.
What was that about?
These floods out on the Mississippi, you have to think about these. It just looks like some boy scouts and sand bags on the news-right until you have your stock plummet because of crop losses... Then it looks like someone's knee deep in your kids college education looking for their photo albums.. .Brian doesn't understand stock options. He doesn't see what can happen if they take those away from me.
We got a deer problem here. They're in the corn, they're eating the small trees, they charge into the road. Too many deer. Take away all the predators and that's going to happen.. .No bears, no coyotes...So now you have all these deer-- weak and desperate.
And then one gets sick and they all get sick. Because they're broke and hungry and they make mistakes. Who's fault is that? You can't blame the deer for not having predators...
Mark, what are you doing? Whitacre can't tear himself away from the lone leaf.
Come inside Mark, what's happening to you? She takes his arm and tries to lead him toward the house, but he turns on her. His eyes are filled with terror. She turns off the blower.
You want to be someone living in some small house? You want to be like those people who can't afford cars for their kids?
You're not better than somebody else because you have more cars or a bigger salary. Or some stables across the road. You used to know that, you used to know what mattered. You need to find that out again-- you need to turn to God. Whitacre stares at the leaf, trying to move it with his will.
 I don't need God.
Hey, Kirk, I'm gonna be heading off to Europe and I was thinking I'd deliver the check for the ABP deal in person.
Remind me, ABP deal?
Threonine microbe, they've made some substantial improvements and we need to get it into the market. I got the invoice somewhere... He fishes it out of a pile of papers and slides it across the desk.
We can overnight it.
Nah, I'm gonna see this Thorstensson guy. I'll just hand it to him.
Then I'll get it over. Lysine's going great guns Mark, price is up to one-twenty. Out the window of the office Andreas looks at the tote board and smiles broadly-- he gives Whitacre a big thumbs up. Whitacre smiles and flashes a thumbs up back.
ADM: Supermarket to the world.. .We'll have to change that. When it all comes out-- maybe the board'11 want to change the name of the company altogether. Like when all those companies became Beatrice in the 80's. There was that woman, `We're Beatrice...' They made light bulbs and corn and everything... Whitacre enters the SWISS BANK CORPORATION. He approaches A
Guten Morgen, Ich mochte Herr Brief finden, bitte? The porter points toward a desk.
Danke schon. Whitacre approaches a SECRETARY. Behind him another woman shrieks and falls down. The heel has broken on her shoe. Her papers scatter everywhere-- the secretary smirks at the
Guten Tag...Wie gehts es They have a word for laughing Ihnen? Ich suche Herr Briel, at the misfortune of others. bitte. A word for that. Schadenfreude ... We don't have any words for that kind of thing. In a way, it's not really funny. The secretary buzzes and moments later a wooden door opens. DANIEL BRIEL emerges smiling.
Mr. Whitacre ...Wie gehts? Gut dass wir uns eben getroffen haben. The two men vanish behind a door.
Brian and Bob always ask me if I do much sightseeing on business trips-They don't understand.
We're having another association meeting to work out some issues in lysine-- dividing up volume, setting prices for some markets.
Europe again?
There's a price fixing investigation into cement manufacturing there-- it has everybody spooked. Europe's out.
We can't video tape in Japan-- that's not gonna help us.
Hawaii.
Hawaii?
What's his name, Mimoto, we have him saying on tape-- last fall that... He checks a three ring note-book full of transcriptions.
.they were "concerned about severe penalties for anti-trust in the US." Whitacre smiles, very impressed with himself.
So, why are they coming to the US?
I got the association past their fears.
The state bird of Hawaii is the Nay Nay-- it's a kind of land based goose and the state motto is va mau ke ea o ka aina i ka pono-- the customer is the enemy and the competitor is your friend.
What should we play for?
If we win, we get Tyson Foods. All the execs laugh at the thought of dividing up the world's lysine market through golf. An EXEC IN A VISOR chimes in.
Or, we could play a thousand tons a stroke.
We already know Whitacre's score-- sixty seven plus alpha. More laughter.
I got a hole-in-one once-- back in Ohio when I was about eighteen. There was a little blurb in the paper and I won a windbreaker from the country club...I still have the news clipping somewhere stashed away for safe keeping...
But, mainly I was active in the local 4-H Club. I think 4-H is a real good thing for kids...I got a lot of recognition from them and it's not just some local thing. It's a federal program-- part of the Department of Agriculture. OTHER FBI AGENTS dressed for the links shadow the lysine execs using LONG RANGE RECORDING EQUIPMENT.
Just remember-- I want you to poll the room and get them to use the word "agreement."
Okay, Bob. It's gonna be a great meeting.
Let the action come to you.
I gotta talk, Bob.
I know that...
I mean, I'm representing ADM. Otherwise, everybody would be suspicious.
You can talk. Just don't dominate. We want to see others involvement.
Definitely.
It's that time again.
Oh, sure no problem. Whitacre takes off his shirt as the two men face each other in the hotel room-- an uncomfortable moment. Herndon starts spreading shave cream across Whitacre's chest.
When it's over I think we'll be friends, all of us. Good friends. I'll have Bob over and Brian and we'll bar-b-que. Maybe not so much with some of the guys over at ADM-- probably not Mick and Terry...But guys like Sid and Marty and Rheinhard we've been through a lot together...
We can't be manipulated by these Goddamn buyers. Thank God we have them, but they are not my friends. The men all nod. Whitacre appears pool side and begins to unbutton his Hawaiian shirt. Wilson turns to Ikeda.
You're my friend. I want to be closer to you than I am to any customer, cause you can make it so I can make money or I can't make money. And all I want... Nobody is listening to him. They all stare at Whitacre. A
What? Whitacre looks down at his chest-- so does everyone else. Whitacre's got some explaining to do.
Oh, that. Nah, I had to take this physical for some life insurance the wife wanted. They shaved me for the heart thing. Itches... Whitacre smiles shyly and settles into the pool.
It's not really lying when you're doing it to serve some greater purpose...I think that's what God would say-- it's not all cut and dry-- like that and you can't really send a lie out into the world on its own, you wouldn't do that with a child per se...A lie needs the company of other lies-- and so it may look like a lot of lies in the end, but it's really just the first one that counts...
Damn Mark, can't you call and get us a bigger room. This is crazy.
Anyone seen my briefcase?
We move to bigger room. They start to pack up their stuff. Whitacre panics.
No, no. I don't think they have one... . Is my brief case behind the flip-chart?
He left it in his room.
Yeah, it's just there's more of us than we expected. Nothing larger? Really? Can you check again...
Call us if anything opens up. It's Whitacre, Mark Whitacre. He hangs up and crosses toward Mimoto.
Uh, Mr. Mimoto, I think you might be able to see the easel better...
You think Mimoto would be any different in my position? They have guys filing expense reports for sex trips to Bangkok at Ajinomoto Corporation...Any of these guys who have kids and found themselves in a bind with the authorities...
 What if we just move your chair over here.
Thatta boy, Mark.
I'd like to welcome everybody here, glad everyone could make it and sorry for those who can't play golf tomorrow-- we're gonna have a good time. Whitacre's POV-- he scans the room.
Outside piss? Language problem again.
It's better to be part of the group.
Competitors are our friends, remember? Customers the enemy. The group nods in agreement with Whitacre's translation. JM SUH of Cheil Corporation takes issue with this. The two argue... Whitacre looks at SUH, who is LOSING HIS HAIR...
I want to know why Cheil Male pattern hair loss can be Corporation has been excluded a real set back...I mean a from association in the past. lot of women, their father's are bald so they're kind of used to it...But, still seeing it in the drain every morning in your thirties, that's not fair at all and this Minoxidil thing-- it's not really, a cure...
I explain it to you on the phone many times... Suh is kind of a baby-- Mimoto doesn't like him. Wilson steps in.
If the market is what we think it is... There's a KNOCK ON THE DOOR. Conversation ceases.
We have a couple other people joining us I think? MR. CHAUDRET from EUROLYSINE is making himself a fruit plate.
From Sewon in Korea.
And one from the FBI? Whitacre freezes. He's caught. He looks at the business men... DO THEY ALL KNOW?
That's why there can't be any leaves on the walk. They give it away-Like the ants-- they can see a trail of ants... Mimoto smiles right at Whitacre-- the walls close in, and then, the room bursts into laughter. Whitacre gets it. He smiles back.
And seven from the Federal Trade Commission. IT'S ALL A JOKE. More laughter and more knocks. Whitacre goes to the door. Mimoto calls out.
Yes? FTC? Whitacre opens the door to find HERNDON DRESSED LIKE A HOTEL EMPLOYEE-- he hands Whitacre the brief case.
This was left in the lobby. The concierge thought it might belong to one of you gentleman.
Okay. Hey, thanks. Herndon closes the door.
You forgot your briefcase in the lobby?
When I was signing for the food-- I must've left it.
In Paris it would have already been sold. More laughter.
How can we know ADM will stay at agreed upon levels?
Our preference is to trust each other. If we find someone lyin'-- then we hire some mafia figure and rub you out. The group laughs.
If we can't trust each other in the end, it ain't gonna work.
You are okay for that? A beat.
Yeah, I'm all right.
So what are we saying then? Wilson looks at Whitacre like he's an idiot.
What, is there a language problem here?
So, everyone is, uh... They just said so. It's like Whitacre is playing Password.
Agreed. Uh, five companies agree on quantity for the first time. The men all smile at each other-- hand shakes and high fives.
Agreement... you heard it. He hits rewind and plays it again.
Christ, how about this guy Whitacre? What's his story?
What do you mean?
What's his agenda? The guy's making 350 grand a year, he's moving up the ladder and he turns informer. When does that happen? Is the money going up his nose? Some woman somewhere with a kid that he's seeing on one of these business trips? What's his story? Shepard and Herndon are offended on behalf of Mark. Herndon reaches into his briefcase and pulls out a GREETING CARD.
I wanted everyone to see this. This is Mark Whitacre and his family. The group passes it around. A photo of Whitacre Family smiling in front of their Christmas Tree.
I carry this picture with me all the time as a constant reminder that he is a real person with a real family depending on him. The only reason we have these tapes is because of this man.
We want to know that when the time comes, if he loses his job, the government is going to stand behind him.
What's he looking for?
About eighteen grand a month. He hands her a folder of Whitacre's expenses.
We took the kids one year to the Renaissance festival in Indiana.. .You get to be the White Knight.. .The kids get to ride in the joust against the forces of darkness with a helmet on. And the White Knight always wins, the forces of darkness fall onto an old mattress...It was maybe ninety degrees out and the heat and humidity index-- I can't even remember what the radio said.
We were next in line and the mare collapsed-- went down in a heap. Ginger was eating ye olde drumstick and she dropped it in the dirt. The kids were crying and I remember this farmer saying he had a gun in his truck... Just like that. From the White Knight to a gun in the truck-How do you get that back? How does that get to be fair?
 Hey, Brian, how do you like it? Shepard takes in the car.
It's a beauty. How was Hong Kong?
Real good-- we're going to be taking the lysine prices up again. He hands Shepard an envelope.
We're gonna wanna hear how the company responds when we move in. Shepard hands him some tapes and batteries. He grabs the BRIEF CASE off the backseat.
You want me to load you up right now?
That's okay, Brian. It's kind of packed with work anyway. Whitacre stops Shepard from opening the case-- he takes the tapes and puts them in his lap.
I'll see you at the briefing. Whitacre watches Shepard walk away then opens the briefcase.
Marty Allison, Sid Hulse, and the other guys will understand-- they've worked with me.
Mark, are you an idiot?
I'm gonna be the only one left. Dwayne will be gone. Mick will be gone. Terry will be gone. I'm going to be the only one who can run ADM.
That's totally illogical. How can you possibly stay there when you've dust taken down the company? You think they're going to pat you on the back?
I'm next in line.
It's the FBI, right? They're brainwashing you. Brian Shepard put these ideas in your head to keep you working for him. She storms out-- Whitacre checks his hair in the mirror.
I'm telling you, they're gonna make me president.
They're good. They'll be at an amusement park when you guys make your move.
Whatever happens tomorrow, it may be in your best interest to get an attorney who represents your interests alone. Whitacre is confused.
You want me to go and hire an attorney now?
No, not now...
The first thing that's going to happen is the company lawyers are going to come to all the executives with a list of attorneys for you to pick from. You gotta understand, these attorneys are being paid by ADM. They don't represent you. Do not take one of these attorneys, that's when you say to them that you have your own attorney.
Tell them you've decided to cooperate with the government.
It's perfectly reasonable for you to cooperate. It happens all the time.
Well, I know a lawyer in Decatur...
No, Mark. The town's too small.
I'm sure you've met lawyers in your business dealings who can handle this.
Oh, definitely. He searches his mind for who that might be.
Now, Mark once this thing starts it's going to be intense. They're going to know that somebody was on the inside working with us. They're going to do almost anything to find out who it is.
You guys still think everything will work out okay for me at the company? They'll take out the bad guys, but I'll be okay?
Come on Mark, you're making that up.
No, it's true. Archer, The "A" in ADM, choked to death on a chicken bone in 1947.
There you have it from Mark Whitacre, Ph.D. You know what the Ph.D. is for? Piled Higher and Deeper.
And let me guess, Daniels was killed by a pig and the cows got Midland? Booze soaked laughter all around.
So, a chicken got Archer-- but fifty years later when you look at our deals with Tyson, Foster Farms-- what's the body count? More laughter. The agents walk up to the table.
Excuse me. Mr. Wilson, Mr. Whitacre-- I'm Bob Herndon and I'm an FBI agent. This is Special Agent Shepherd.
Why don't we step over there. Wilson is baffled. Whitacre feigns surprise-- they both look to their client.
I have no idea what this is. Wilson gets up from the table. Whitacre is shaken.
Do I need an attorney.
Attorney? Christ.
Mr. Whitacre, if I can ask you to step outside with Agent Shepard and Mr. Wilson, if you could have a seat. The men move away from the table leaving the Visiting Client baffled and all alone-- a STUNNED WAITRESS approaches him.
Would you like to see the dessert menu?
I saved a guy once at a restaurant in Hong Kong. He was choking on a bone and I got him to throw himself over the back of his chair. He sends me cards on holidays... Just to say thanks...tells me what his kids are studying. He remembers me.
You have a reason for embarrassing my colleague and I in front of a business prospect?
Mr. Wilson you're president over at Archer Daniels Midland Corporation, correct?
I run the corn business.
This is a serious matter. It involves an international investigation into price fixing...
Why don't we talk in the car.
We've seen you and your boss, Mick Andreas, conspire with your competitors to fix prices. We've seen you tell others to do it.
There are going to be indictments. Search warrants have been issued...
and some people, people you know and work with will be going to jail. The MIDDLE AGED MAN drops the hose and goes inside with the FBI agent. Pull back to reveal TWO OTHER HOUSES on the street have FBI CRUISERS parked in their driveways.
We're giving you a chance...
A chance to be able to look your grandchildren in the eye someday and tell them you did the right thing...
Wilson looks out the window and sees Whitacre in the FBI cruiser.
Look at that, look at Bob and Terry. Man, I'd love to be a fly on the wall for that one. I was good wasn't I? I seemed scared. Shepard tries to calm him down, get him to focus.
Remember what we told you, Mark: tell them that you're cooperating first thing and whatever you do, do not take one of their lawyers.
What did you say to your guy?
Nothing. I told him nothing. Slow down.
Me, too.
He said he had tapes-- that he'd heard price fixing tapes. . .What the fuck is that? I can't believe they would pull this shit on Dwayne Andreas... The car skids into a turn up a very long drive toward the kind of mansion that comes from price fixing.
I bet they tapped the phones-- I always said that about them. I bet it's phone calls.
Maybe, but what's that?
You know, I get phone calls from time to time, Terry.
I know, I know.
Terry never liked me...He's a dinosaur. A fossil. The Andreas' bully, is all he ever was. He was never going to run the place. Those guys never do, they just use them to find the land mines... MICK ANDREAS, Mid 40's appears in the headlights-- shirt un- tucked, holding a drink.
We're going to the lawyers-- I don't want to use the phones.
See, the phones.
They hit everyone-- my Dad, Schmidt, Randall...
Fuck me.
They played me a tape-- of me-- some meeting with the fucking japs. I called the lawyers.. .They want us to go there.
They played a fucking tape!
I really don't think they've got that much and when you factor in everything we've ever done for them .It'll be a ten year thing for the lawyers then there'll be some deal, maybe a fine.. .That's all it'll ever be. Wilson and Andreas get in one car-- Whitacre gets in another.
Mick should've been more of a friend to me.
.I could've turned the tape recorder off and told Brian and Bob I ran out of batteries...
Do you think it went well?
I don't think I would change a thing. A phone rings somewhere-- an agent answers.
I got Agent Temples for Attorney Mutchnik. Mutchnik-- sharing in the joy of the success takes the phone.
They would've believed me. Brian and Bob really trusted me...
I just interviewed an ADM employee, Kirk Schmidt...
Yeah...
Schmidt knew we were coming. He said Whitacre told him about the raid days ago.
Bob, Brian-- can I talk to you guys for a second...
The metric system never panned out. We all had rulers with inches on one edge and centimeters on the other-- I pronounced it centimiters instead of centimeeters-- and nobody ever corrected me. They
just let me walk around stupid so I'm not really upset we never crossed over, although it's helpful in Europe. The liter bottle is the only thing that ever caught on, because it's a nicer word--liter-- than quart. A sedan pulls up next to him. Herndon and Shepard climb in.
You guys were great. I mean you scared the hell out of Terry and you should've seen Mick and the lawyers.
That's super, Mark.
And the best part is, they think you gave me the once over.
Did you make a tape? Whitacre again reaches into his pocket and pulls out a small tape recorder.
Yeah, and it's good stuff. It's real good. He hands the agents the tape.
So, it's pretty much over now. Whitacre nods-- a moment to savor, until...
Mark, who did you tell?
What? What do you mean?
Who did you tell about the raid. Shepard is furious, he glares at Whitacre.
Hey, I had to tell my secretary. I told her a long time ago. I just said, "look I'm working with the FBI on some things, I may be out of touch for a while. That's all... Shepard still glares.
And, uh, I've probably mentioned Kathy Dougherty, in my division. She's a dear friend and a trusted ally. I didn't want her to be scared.
Why did you do that, Mark? Why did you tell Dougherty?
Like I said, I didn't want her to be scared. And I can trust her. Guys, I can trust her. Shepard glares in harder, his voice cracking.
Who else?
Mmm...Kirk Schmidt. I wanted to let him know it was okay to talk with you `cuz he might not on account of he's loyal to me. Shepard explodes.
You could have ruined this entire operation. Two and a half years... Herndon intervenes.
Time out. Mark, you know what you did was wrong in our eyes... Whitacre starts to speak.
Don't...Don't. Look, we can get past this. But is there anything else we need to know? Anything? A beat. Whitacre regains his composure.
No, I can't think of anything, Bob.
Selenium deficiency in chicks causes reduced growth and pancreatic atrophy and increased mortality. But, does anyone here know that? It's in my Ph. D. Thesis.. .You can solve it with vitamin E. Mick and Terry-most of the people-- they don't even have Ph. D.'s. They wouldn't have the slightest idea about what selenium deficiency can do to a chick. But, I know it, I did the research.
Dwayne Andreas, hey, how ya doin'? Sorry about the FBI arresting your son and investigating your company... Maybe you all should've listened to me. The smile vanishes. Is he found out?
Mark Whitacre, this is Aubrey Daniel.
Pleasure meeting you. I'm representing ADM in this matter. And this is a colleague of mine John Dowd. Dwayne's told me about your responsibilities here...
Aubrey defended Lt. Calley after the My Lai massacre in Viet Nam... So this ought to be a cake walk for him.
We thought you might take some time and talk to John here.
ADM's going to stand behind you on this, Mark. Dad and I want the key people to know we'll be paying their legal fees.
Great, that's great.
Then we'll let you fellas get acquainted. Everyone leaves except for Dowd and Whitacre. Dowd gives Whitacre a warm, knowing look.
How you holding up, Mark?
Uh, can I ask you something?
Sure. Anything.
If I tell you something are you allowed to say anything to Mick or Dwayne?
It feels good to talk, to clear the air-- you get to be like a balloon after a while. A balloon looking for a pin to bump into and relieve the pressure. You could get sick from keeping it inside and get a tumor or something..I didn't ask for that. Why should I pay for my own legal fees when I'm not the one who started the price fixing.
People get their live's earnings wiped out by these legal entanglements ... I'm gonna pay for that? That's not right, I have kids and Ginger and horses...
I have a friend from school who has a law practice and he's always telling me how they can't talk about their cases-Like in The Firm... You can tell them anything and they have to keep to themselves or they get in a lot of trouble-They're boxed. That's what they say, "boxed."
I need to tell you that I'm cooperating with the government. The FBI has hundreds of tapes. They know all about lysine. John here agrees I should be getting another lawyer.
No question about it. Dowd and Daniel share a knowing look. An uncomfortable silence follows.
I'm sorry for what's happened.
Sorry? What's that? Whitacre shakes Mick Andreas' hand and walks away. The men are all stunned, they watch him leave.
John, I bet that SOB was wearing a wire on you tonight, too.
Hey. . .Good morning.
Mark, we'd like you off the premises.
Uh, Mr. Daniel, can't we...
Management wants you out...
But, I'm a VP here... And with that MARK CHEVIRON picks up his briefcase and car keys.
Let's go.
 How would Brian Shepard like it if he was thrown out of his job? If he was humiliated in front of his secretary? If he even had a secretary. Not very much I'm willing to wager.
Mark, you can't be here.
They threw me out, Brian.
You're jeopardizing everything.
Tossed me out of ADM. I'm out. Shepard backs away from Whitacre like he's a leper.
Not here, Mark-- on the phone we can set something up.
You gotta help me. Whitacre looks around-- all the houses have eyes. A LITTLE NEIGHBOR BOY has stopped playing catch with his MOTHER and both are now staring at Whitacre and Shepard-- as are a group of CITY WORKERS fixing a telephone wire.
If you need to talk, call me. Whitacre gets back in his car. Shepard watches him drive away-- over his shoulder we hear the phone ringing. Whitacre parks at the far end of the street.
Mark, you can't show up at my house. How can you know me if this is a secret investigation?
They know. They know it's me, my lawyer told them.
What? What lawyer?
I fired him right away, but he told Mick and Dwayne.
A lawyer can't do that, Mark.
I thought that, I did. Mick and Dwayne introduced me to this guy and I told him...
Who introduced you?
Mick and Dwayne said they were going to take care of me. Shepard can't believe Whitacre gave himself away.
Mark, we told you not to talk to an ADM lawyer. We went over that more than once. I think we made it very clear.
I know, I know I do. I just don't know one. No ideas.
Let me make a call.
You're not mad at me for coming over are you, Bri?
So, there wasn't a saboteur in the beginning at all? You made that up?
Maybe there was, there could've been-- ADM steals technology from the Japanese-- so I wouldn't put it past the Japanese to do the same thing. But after I told them that I made it up the FBI said I didn't have much of a choice.
And you began making tapes...How many tapes did you make? Whitacre again displays his gift to move his lips and mind in different directions. The interior monologue takes precedence-- the on-camera story we've heard before.
There are over 200 tapes. I There are so many really nice carried a tape recorder people in the world. People almost everyday to work once who want to help out. Good I signed a cooperating neighbors. Good listeners. witness agreement, and then Like when they have these they gave me a special brief floods out on the Mississippi case that I took to meetings and people lose everything that had a hidden recorder in and are sleeping in a school it-- they even sewed a small gym, someone always shows up one they just developed into with a warm coat for the old my suit and I'd ride around people and a home made pot on the plane and tape Mick roast. That's why Ginger and and the guys talking about I bought that girl in town a price fixing or stealing special computer after she technology and illegal had the spine injury. That campaign contributions, just kind of thing really makes a whatever we'd talk about. We difference. Jim here strikes made over a hundred tapes-- me as that kind of guy, you and Brian and Bob and I would can tell he's the one-in-a- get together a couple times a hundred guy who when you come week and work on the into the emergency room, you investigation until we thank your lucky stars that briefed the lawyers at the it's his watch. Department of Justice and they raided the place.
For how long did you do this? Work as an informant?
Uh, two and a half years. I was a VP and a cooperating witness. A moment of reflection and then...
I've always thought when this was over there'd still be a place for me at ADM. I still got a lot of friends there. The lawyers look at each other.
Mark, it's very important to your case that you not discuss it with anyone else. These people you work with, your friends, they could end up being witnesses. So Bob and I are the only people I want you to talk to about this from now on and I want you to know you can tell us anything.
Hey, thanks for taking the time. I really appreciate it. I feel a whole lot better. Whitacre leaves. Epstein and Zaideman try and absorb what they've just heard. Then they burst into hysterical laughter.
He's out of town.
My name is Scott Kilman and I'm a reporter from the Wall Street 1 Journal... Kilman gives her a business card.
Any kind of corn will pop-- but not every kind turns itself inside out and gets white and fluffy...
I know this is a difficult time for your family. But, I've seen how these things go before-- these companies really go after the whistle blowers. Kilman lays out what he knows for Ginger. She listens briefly and then walks Kilman back to his car.
They've got a whole PR There's a starch-protein department putting out their matrix. Certain ratios prove side. It's just the nature of advantageous ... How do you the beast. If he wants his explain that? Who would side coming out he's gonna really take the time to have to do it. listen when the other guys have an agenda. When they can get Ronald Reagan on the phone because they're building a statue of him...
Uh, well I don't really know about all that-- like I said, Mark's away just now-But, I'll let him know you stopped by. Ginger watches Kilman drive away and then turns and walks toward the stables.
Mark? He left. You can come back. Whitacre emerges from among the tall stalks of corn where he's been watching.
They turned the place upside down.
They went though all of this, too.
I'm sorry you got dragged into this.
And then they started asking me for the access code to your voice mail. Whitacre panics.
Did you tell them? I don't think you have to tell them that.
well, according to them I do-- but I didn't. And about two hours later Peterson told me to clean out my desk. He said I've been transferred out of Bioproducts.
But, you didn't tell them?
Abe Lincoln was born 45 minutes from here and I've never been to his log cabin. I've seen post cards and I sent the kids there on a field trip. But, I've never gone. I'm sure it's very well preserved. Original beds and dining room tables and the doorways are probably smaller from when people were shorter...It's only 45 minutes away... CU on Whitacre as a sound builds in the car...A small outboard motor we've heard before. Getting LOUDER...And then a voice competes.
I'd like to talk to you about what's been going on at ADM. A beat. He hands Whitacre a card.
I'm interested in hearing your side of things. Whitacre takes a paranoid look around.
We better go inside. We can't talk out here.
They kept coming back Brian, and they only had ADM's side of things.
Did you talk to them, Mark? What did you say? It's real important that you not talk to the press.
Me? I told him I had no comment. But, they already had the story. A beat. On the counter is a NEWSPAPER. Whitacre hangs up the phone.
I don't owe Brian Shepard the truth.
Shit.
.Is Brian Shepard gonna lose his job for that? His standard of living? I've gone to the local junior high school on career day and talked to kids about biochemistry and the kind of career opportunities available...
Can Brian Shepard and Bob Herndon say that, I'm the white hat...
Dad, Dad, you're on TV! Whitacre turns on the TV. A strange light blows out the windows of the kitchen. On the TV screen appears the image of: WHITACRE'S HOUSE.
A Vice President in the Bio- products division of Fortune Five Hundred ADM, Whitacre was working as a spy for the FBI for over two years...
I did enough for Brain Shepard. Who's gonna take care of me?
Baby, you gotta come see this we're on TV.
Any comment on the effect your actions have had on the decline in ADM's stock prices? Whitacre cringes.
What has been the reaction of your friends and co-workers to having been taped without their knowledge? Whitacre picks up speed toward the garage.
Do you believe you and your family can safely stay in Decatur, or has the government made arrangements to move you? Whitacre cowers in the garage.
Who picks the kids up for swimming lessons. . .Who has a plaque in the high school for the Mark Whitacre Environmental Award... Where are your friends when it's dump on Mark Whitacre, where's the pot roast and the warm coat?
We're still getting the threatening phone calls and I know for a fact that Dwayne and Terry have been telling people he wasn't a good worker. That he can't be trusted.
We told Mark that he had to expect the unexpected-- that he might be attacked-- that he wasn't going to win any popularity contests for this.
He just mopes around here watching the news looking for a glimpse of himself. Or, he calls someone from ADM looking for the latest gossip.
Maybe you guys should get out of town until the hearings start.
He's got to stop talking to people that can really come back to bite him...
He's very proud, you know...
.I just feel that after everything he's done he should be taken better care of...
Where is he now? Beat.
He said he was going to see you.
They had warned me that I would need an attorney and told me not to get one tied to ADM, but they didn't stress it...I spent from six to ten that night talking to John Dowd the attorney from ADM. Dowd promised me he wouldn't tell anyone my role. But, the next day someone at ADM called me and said, "Hey, Dwayne told me you're the mole. You're the one who caused all this..."
And then what happened? Whitacre's story comes out-- in both directions.
It's been pure hell ever A lot of people didn't since. I really believed I believe I'd ever go to an Ivy was doing a good deed. I league school-- but I did. still think that. I won't They didn't believe I'd get a ever regret that part. I Ph. D.-- but I did that, too. still think I did a good Maybe Cornell isn't Harvard, thing...Just a few weeks ago but they play each other in I was potentially the next sports. When I was twenty- president of the company. I eight I wanted to be making have that on tape, and now twice my age-- and I did. it's pure character Then the goal was three times assasination. Here's what's my age by the time I was being said about me at ADM: 30.. . I'm 38 and I'm making that I wasn't a good manager, well over ten times my age, that I wasn't good with and I'll be on the cover of people. That the feds caught Fortune Magazine for cleaning me at price-fixing. up one of the biggest companies in America...And I was just an average student in high school.
I never dreamed of being a whistle blower. And I would tell other people in this kind of situation to take a stand. Try to solve the problem internally. Go to the top.
If that doesn't work go to the authorities...
The bottom line is that I know my story will eventually be confirmed by the FBI. There's no reason for me to put out a story they're not going to confirm... It would be crazy.
It's all on tape, everything that happened.
You can see where he pasted it. Aubrey Daniel picks up the phone barely able to contain his glee.
Mark Whitacre.
Hello, Mark? It's Aubrey Daniel. I think you forgot something? Whitacre pulls over onto the shoulder. He looks at the cell phone in dismay and stares at a Polaroid of himself from the Fortune Magazine photo shoot-- he's smiling in the picture.
One of the things I've learned in business is that you should always use a person's name in conversation if you want them to feel important... Sid Hulse and Marty Allison think that and they're very successful salesman...
It makes people feel like they're definitely being told something they can use... They enter and the HOSTESS gives them a table up front.
You got anything open in the back?
Just by putting their name in there at the beginning or the end. The men sit at a table in the back. A beat.
Brian, Bob, my attorney's telling me not to say anything, but there's something I've wanted to talk about for awhile.
Don't tell us anything. You have an attorney now. This isn't like before. Let's just talk. Shepard tries to change the subject.
You been playing any golf? Whitacre doesn't want to "just talk."
They want to talk to me at ADM.
Mark, you understand your lawyer has advised you not to discuss this matter?
We're not asking you.
Let me throw out some "hypotheticals." I'll talk about some financial situations and you tell me if they're wrong or how serious they might be, OK? For instance, suppose a company gave an executive a car, you know, a corporate car. But instead of driving it to work he drove his personal car and gave the company car to his daughter. Would that be a problem?
That's it? That's the hypothetical? The agents try not to laugh. After what Whitacre has given the government-- a little undeclared perk is nothing.
That shouldn't be a problem.
What about if an executive used a corporate plane for personal use?
Basically, it's the same thing.
There may be some IRS issues but...
What if, hypothetically, the activity involved kickbacks by corporate executives?
There are plenty of ways companies try and attract business. Dinners for clients, tickets for sporting events...
It's not ethical but it's done. A beat. Then Whitacre goes on.
Uh, is this conversation on or off the record?
On. Definitely. Whitacre exhales.
What if the company regularly accepted kickbacks to executives in the form of cash? Shepard drops his fork. Hold on Shepard.
How much money are we talking about Mark? Whitacre pauses, clears his throat.
Five hundred thousand.
How much??? Whitacre shrinks from the admission like a puppy who just crapped on the rug.
It's how things were done there.
When did this start, Mark?
December of 1991. Shepard can't believe it.
You, You... And how were you paid?
By check. They we're deposited in various accounts. And always under 10,000 dollars.
And did any of these checks come in after we met? Whitacre pauses.
Maybe a couple. The agents try and control their anger.
Who else knows about this?
Nobody. Herndon loses it.
Come on, Mark-- you just said it's how things were done at ADM. Now, is there anything else you're involved in? Anything else you need to tell us?
Just what I told you.
I'm asking you one more time.
The 500 and that's it. Definitely. Whitacre nods. He asks hopefully...
This isn't going to affect the price-fixing case, is it? The three men get up to leave.
I feel good about that. Hey, I don't see what the big deal is. They said help us with the price fixing and I did-- the two things are totally unrelated...
Besides, Mick knew about it, definitely... He's the one who taught me to do it in the first place.
When you look at what went on with all the price fixing they did or the Federal Building being bombed in Oklahoma City, why are we focusing on me getting a half- million in kick-backs along with everyone else?
Two point five million dollars. Deposited in a bank in Switzerland while Mark Whitacre was on ADM business. We have sworn testimony from Mr. Lennart Thorstensson of the ABP Corporation that he's never seen this contract before and that his signature has been forged. He and his company never received this check... As Daniel speaks one of the younger lawyers passes out a folder of affidavits and other documents supporting his claims.
It is clear to us that Mark Whitacre, driven by his own boundless ambition to take over ADM, has attempted to frame his superiors in a price fixing conspiracy of his own invention so that he could seize control of the company...
His cooperation with the government is merely a smokescreen for his lying and stealing. We have additional information that we are prepared to share with Attorney General Reno that the money has been moved to an account in Grand Cayman with the full knowledge and complicity of Whitacre's FBI partners... And under... The DOJ lawyers stare at the table-- searching for the rest of their careers.
The moon and the sun are up at the same time...
I wonder if there's a name for that. We don't have very many moons compared to other planets. What does Jupiter have? Eleven. They aren't scientists-- Mick and Dwayne-- they don't have Ph. D.'s., but I'm the one having to pull my kids out of school for doing the right thing...
They need to dig deep, then they'll find out how high it goes-- it's there they just need to look and they'll see...
What are they accusing me of? I want the specifics? Are they saying I'm in cahoots with the guy? Medford and Paisley don't want to answer this.
Paragraph eight in our agreement with Whitacre states that his actions are directly attributable to the FBI and the US...
But, how could we know what he was doing? He came to us...
The question they're asking isn't `how could we know?' It's `why didn't we know?'
The question is `were they fixing prices?' Medford and Paisley share a look.
The investigation has shifted from ADM to Whitacre.
Of course, ADM decides Whitacre's a thief as soon as they find out he's working for us.
Who's counting the money over there if they can just lose 2.5 Million dollars for a few years and then find it in a few hours?
We gotta call Mark.
I don't want you doing that. Shepard and Herndon are confused.
We're taking you off.
That's it. We're done? I thought the FBI never hung a witness out to dry.
He's not a witness anymore--- he's a target.
I only kept a million and a half-- and Mick knew about it, he knew these things went on. They taught me how to do it. Zaideman and Epstein shake their heads.
You can't bullshit these people tomorrow. Who knows what they know? If we're going in there we got to go in with the whole story. Because the way it gets bad for you is if you tell them you're confessing and you don't. Then you are sorely screwed. Whitacre looks at his shoe box. He nods.
This is everything Jim, what I'm telling you here. I looked everywhere for the bank statements and the records. This is every penny-- I'm not gonna hide anything from you guys.
I was never really that good at chemistry in high school. So I kept taking it-- just to get good and wound up with so many chemistry credits I ended up going into Bio- Chem.
That's really the truth about that-- I wanted to be a veterinarian when I was kid-- I raised chickens and rabbits ...Biochem was my advisor's idea...
Listen, I haven't been telling you the whole truth. I'll clear it up in there today.
What? OH, SHIT. Epstein starts desperately hitting elevator buttons to stop the approaching doom.
We got to get you out of here. But, it's too late the doors open. Whitacre steps out.
No. I want to tell them. Hold on Epstein.
Mr. Whitacre's conduct constitutes a breach of his agreement with the US government. He is no longer a cooperating witness.
My client has given you years of his life, clearly he made mistakes, but he made your case.
We're not here to discuss the case against ADM.
Mr. Whitacre, my name is Ed Herbst and I'm with the FBI Economic Crimes Unit. I'd like you to tell me when your criminal conduct at ADM began.
In early 1992. I learned how things were done there from Mick Andreas. He's the one who taught me how to use embezzlement and kickbacks to make money tax free. Epstein tries to do some damage control.
My client is...
I know the frauds I committed are wrong, and I accept responsibility for them.
How did you receive the money?
Primarily by check. I deposited them in my bank account in Decatur. This seems unlikely. Spearing gets angry--
They paid kickbacks in checks? What company would pay kickbacks in checks? Come on... No one from the government has ever been aggressive toward Whitacre before-- he's thrown.
I don't really remember the exact name... something like AgriConsulting and Trading, something like that...
You don't remember the name of the company that paid you checks?
I. .I've got a lot going on in my life. It's hard to remember.
Hey, we're coming to you guys. We're cooperating here and we're going to get the money back. Epstein looks at Whitacre-- this last part might be hard.
This might help your memory. He slides the forged ABP documents toward Whitacre.
Where did you get that?
These are ADM records showing the forging of signatures. Whitacre smiles and shakes his head. He sees the conspiracy plainly.
See, that's how they keep Didn't these people see The people in the fold-- they Firm-- or read the book. tell you to take the money It's all there. Everything and then they use it against they did to me they did to you if you talk. It's how Tom Cruise... I'm not the one they control us. You gotta they should be mad at... realize who these people are...
Is there anything else you have a hard time remembering? Whitacre looks at Epstein. Epstein shakes his head "no" but Whitacre has other plans.
Umm...I have a few other things to tell you about. Epstein sighs.
There were some things I did in Mexico...
I raised white mice, too. Chickens and goats and white mice in little cages. They couldn't come in the house. I took care of them-- that was my job outside. One got in one time, I don't know how, and he was found dead by my Mother. This had nothing to do with anything I had done-- he just had died and it was up to me to bring him back to life. I wanted to do the right thing and wear the white hat and that's why I tried to make it all right so he wouldn't have to be dead. All the things I did were for that-- but I couldn't.
We can't see you anymore and if you call us and start to talk about it, we'll have to hang up...
You can talk to us about your feelings, but that's it. Shepard puts his coffee cup down near the newspapers.
Mark, please understand. This isn't what we want. We've got no choice here.
I'll tell you what, my frustration and anger is all coming from my work with you guys. I mean, this stuff in the papers, my kids read that. It's all, "Dump on Mark Whitacre." It's not right. I'm harassed by the media and Mick and Terry are still going to work in the morning.
Remember, Mark, we told you it was impossible to predict what would happen when the case went overt.
And you never told us about the Five Million Dollars you took... Ginger has heard this before and can't hear it again.
He worked for you for two and a half years, he risked his career, his home.. .And now you turn your back on him and leave us out here.
Ginger... But the damn has burst. She sobs.
The reason we came today is because we are concerned about your and Mark's well being.
It's important that you tell the people in Washington everything tomorrow-- one hundred per cent. Whitacre nods. Ginger seethes.
You'd have nothing without him and you know it. He's just been used by the government and then thrown away cuz' it's a lot easier to go after Mark Whitacre than anyone named Andreas. Whitacre stares at the newspapers.
I think a lot of people would come-- a lot of friends... and people would be surprised by just how many there are. Even folks from ADM... The news media would be there for sure...
.Everything would come out. Brian and Bob would come and I bet one of them would say something about me. Rheinhard would come up from Mexico. Sid or Marty would tell people what kind of boss I was and how I always brought back presents...
You'll be OK here with your mom? Ginger nods groggily. Whitacre leaves the room-- grabbing a PICTURE OF HIS FAMILY from a bedside table.
Jesus died on a cross to save others from their sins. Jesus was a hero. I know selfish suicide is forbidden in the bible.
Mr. Whitacre will not be appearing today...
Whitacre's not coming.
This morning?
However, the bible makes it clear that you sacrifice yourself...
If it's the only way to save your loved ones.
Jesus, no. Somebody help. Rusty throws the car in reverse and pulls out.
Bud, pull the car back into the garage. Pull back in before somebody sees me. Rusty pulls the car back in and turns it off. The smoke is still clearing.
Jesus, Mark, what are you doing? Whitacre still stretched out in the backseat stares up at the ceiling-- explodes.
You...You fucking God. You owe me. You fucking God. After everything I did. Rusty is shocked by the outburst-- this is not the guy he knows at all. He backs away from the car and picks up the garage phone.
Ginger, can you come to the garage?
Why? Rusty, what's wrong?
I just need to talk to you.
I'm not coming down there unless you tell me what's wrong.
Mark just tried to kill himself and... Ginger's piercing scream comes down the phone line. Whitacre is fetal in the backseat-- moaning. Ginger and HER MOTHER come flying out of the house screaming. They pull Mark out of the car toward the open air as he stumbles, coughing, the family picture clatters across the garage floor. Whitacre jumps on it like a grenade.
Dad? Ginger turns to her MOTHER.
That Goddam Dwayne Andreas did this to him, Mom. He ought to be killed.
.Walk back in with a bag full of jewelry.
You never thought you'd get caught?
That never occurred to me. I mean, I look respectable. Why would they search me? And now they're saying I stole 5 Million dollars. That's what I've been accused of.
Did you?
Yeah. They were paying me 500 grand, but it wasn't enough, I was spending more like eight. So, I took kickbacks. Like I said, it's just what you did if you wanted to be part of the gang at ADM.
Is that how it was when you were a kid; you wanted to be part of the gang?
One time I got a brand new, top of the line bicycle. And I bragged to everyone about it. I told everybody how much it cost. A beat. Then proudly.
It cost ninety dollars.
How did you come to work for the
They approached me. This doesn't make much sense to Miller.
How is it that they came to you? Did they know about the price fixing?
This agent, Brian Shepard came to a number of junior executives at ADM... That's why they approached me. The price fixing hadn't even started yet... Miller is confused by this.
But, uh, if no crime was, then-Mark, I'd like to have you checked into the hospital. Whitacre looks over at a file cabinet.
Is thatwhereyou keep your files? Is thatsafe?I'm the main witness againstthesepeople. You don't know whoyou're dealing with-- they'lldo anything to win.
Over the last few years he's really changed.
How's that?
He just kept buying things. We have eight cars-- three of them we never even use.
Anything else?
I was always the one with the temper and Corky was the happy one-- but that's changed too. Since he said he'd cooperate with the FBI-- he's become so intolerant of everyone...
Why do you call him Corky?
He's had that name since high school. He was like a champagne cork always flying off somewhere.
There's one in Hong Kong. And then there's the bank accounts in Switzerland and Grand Cayman...Other things-There's a lawyer in New York who has a million dollars of mine.
And have you told your attorney the truth about all of these accounts?
No, but I don't need to. The other assets are legal-- definitely.
You need to tell your attorney...
I don't know if I can trust him.
Mark, has anybody in your family ever been diagnosed as bipolar or manic-depressive? Whitacre nods and leans in.
I had an Aunt who they said that about, my real parents died when I was pretty young and I was adopted...
Have you ever heard that Mark told people he was adopted?
Mark is your natural born son; isn't that correct? MRS. EVELYN WHITACRE isn't dead after all-- she's being deposed.
Right.
According to the adoption story Mark told, his parents we're killed in a car accident. Is there any truth in that?
No. Mark knows he's not adopted. He grew up in our house.
Another aspect of the story is that his parents are wealthy. Do you consider yourself wealthy?
No.
And when did Mark first send you a check from the account in Switzerland?
My client is here to cooperate fully, so Agent D'Angelo, if you have any questions. AGENT TONY D'ANGELO, 35, relaxed-- more like Herndon than Shepard.
This is your chance to put everything on the table. This is the chance to redeem yourself, but if you're not going to be completely honest you should stop talking now.
I understand that. And I want to tell you I feel bad. I'm so sorry, and I feel worst about letting down Brian Shepard and Bob Herndon. Last time we talked I was under a great deal of stress and I said some things that weren't true. I'd like to clear that up. Whitacre is more earnest than ever before-- he begins.
The first kickback was in 1992, Mick knew all about it, he told me there'd be plenty of opportunities to take kick backs on Asian and European contracts at ADM.
Was anyone else involved?
Uh, Sid Hulse...
Before Sid says anything, you know about these schemes with the Nigerian letters?
The 419 Fraud? We see it every day.
You ever wonder who was dumb enough to fall for something like that? Hulse is flushed.
This is really embarrassing. But, that's how Mark and I first got involved financially...
Then there was Rheinhard Richter who I worked with in Mexico. We had some deal that involved...
So we have money leaving your account here and here and here and it's going to Whitacre's account...His wife Ginger's account. This one is going to Whitacre's parents account.
Like I said, those are loans. Agent Basset isn't buying it.
Look we know you're sticking up for Mark here, but your story doesn't seem true. Mark is cooperating now. Richter folds.
You're right. It's not true. All the money went to Mark.
When did it start?
Mark told me about this Nigerian thing he got in the mail.
And then there was Marty Allison. Marty's a good friend.
Mark told you guys about Nigeria, right? Nobody says anything.
When I started at ADM, uh in 1990, Mark got a letter from Nigeria.
Hey, Marty, got a minute. He takes a seat across the desk from Whitacre. Whitacre shows him THE NIGERIAN LETTER.
He told me he'd been in touch with certain parties in Nigeria. Businessmen who had overbilled the government there for millions-- but now needed bogus invoices from legitimate US business men to make it all look above board. You put in ten grand you get a hundred back.
I know people who have made millions on this. My step-father cleaned up.
He'd never heard of the Nigerian scam?
Not until a couple years later when sixty minutes ran a piece on it showing how people had lost a fortune on the con.
And the kickbacks?
He had me set up a company in Germany and send fake invoices. I'd get a check for like 200 grand and most of it would go back to Mark.
You kept the rest.
He told me management knew about it. But, it seemed to me that he was doing the same thing to ADM, that the Nigerians had done to us.
How much money did you receive through all your illegal activities? Whitacre takes a moment-- does the math in his head, mouthing to himself the various sources of his massive fraud.
Uh...7.7 Million dollars. But, Mick knew. Like I said, he endorsed these things.
He endorsed you stealing 7.7 Million dollars?
He might have though that was a bit much.
Is there anything else you want to tell us?
Well, I think you did a real good job today-- I do know that ADM has been stealing microbes from the Japanese for years and that they use prostitutes to get information from the competition's facility in Iowa. I know that Mick Andreas uses cocaine and I have that on tape-- and there are illegal campaign contributions to both American and foreign politicians... And under...
When agents go under cover for the FBI, they get trained for the stresses of living a secret life...
We hear this all the time from you guys, how easy it is for trained agents to crack. And here is Mark...A civilian with no training.
But, you guys shove him in there, you tell him 'go for it,' without anything to make sure he doesn't crack under pressure. You have to ask yourself, was the US government taken in by Mark Whitacre, or did it help create him? Whitacre leans into the car and hands off the envelope. He speaks to some HOODLUM we can't see.
Tomorrow, 3 O'clock... where we talked about.
Mark committed a crime. He stole nine million dollars. It's indefensible. But these guys from ADM stole hundreds of millions of dollars from innocent people all over the world. Mark showed you that four white guys in suits getting together in the middle of the day, isn't a business meeting. It's a crime scene. And not only did he tell you about it, he got you the evidence to prove it. Now, we're not looking for the moon and stars. We're looking for something in the area of three years.. .Or we can take it to trial. And in that trial I'll lay out everything Mark Whitacre did-- good and bad...
And somewhere a future whistle blower is going to pick up the New York Times and the Wall Street Journal and read what Mark's life has become because he decided to cooperate. Whitacre gives up, gets in his car and drives away.
Because he decided to take on a powerful company-And then, you'll never have one of these white collar guys pick up a phone and call you ever again.
Baby. . .Ginger. They grabbed me. There were two of them. Ginger rushes through the house to the aid of her husband.
Oh my God...
They wouldn't let me out of the car.
Look at your shirt.. .what happened? As she embraces him we are close on Whitacre...
I was abducted. They took me for a twenty-minute joy ride and told me that I basically better forget everything that's not on tape.
I think we know who sent them.
And they sawed the locks off the door like, like mafia thugs.
Three to five years? But, ADM's the bad guys.
You've got to focus here. You stole nine million dollars. And then you lied about it. Maybe in your head you're one of the good guys but to them your a guy who stole a lot of money and lied about it.
Ginger and I have been talking and we'd like to file a law suit against Brian Shepard and the IJS government.
Jesus Christ, for what, Mark?
He hit me with a brief case. This is news to Ginger, but she believes it. Epstein doesn't.
Mark. . .Come on.
And he told me to destroy certain tapes that didn't help the case. Epstein throws up his hands.
Mark, I'm telling you-- take the plea. Whitacre smiles and looks at Ginger.
Thanks, Jim. But, we're going to go a different way.
I read this study in Time magazine when I was at Cornell-- which is an Ivy league school-- and there were a lot of people who never believed, including my mother, that I would make it to an Ivy league school maybe just Ginger who I met in Marching Band in the 8th grade...
.and the study said that people had nice, sympathetic feelings about people who were adopted and treated them better. So I made up this adoption story-- and people did treat me better-- and when I got a job one of my professors told the people at Ralston Purina that I was this amazing guy that had accomplished all of this in spite of being adopted-- Whitacre takes out a pair of SCISSORS and goes to work on the letter.
.and so it was really other people who spread the story not me-- although I admit it was wrong to start it and everything, it was other people who kept it going. Even the people at ADM. My new lawyer sees that.
This all goes back many years, before most of us were born... It's bigger than any of us, and it's ongoing. I know you're skeptical, but I've seen it. My client Mark Whitacre has shown it to me. Maybe I'm just a personal injury lawyer from Taylorville- nowhere-Illinois, but I tell you I know the identity of the master puppeteer. The DOJ lawyers try not to laugh.
The who?
Master puppeteer, and it's not who you're thinking.
Grandiosity and embellishment-- what they call it when you embellish things-- those are the major symptoms of bipolar disorder. And the other, the second major symptom is poor judgement. And that's something Brian Shepard should have known ; The bipolar disorder is what made me believe I'd be President when it was over... Although there was a time when Mick told me, on a trip to Nebraska, that I could be headed for the top.
Mark has tapes-- tapes the government doesn't want us to hear.
Tapes that outline the actions of Brian Shepard, who hit Mark Whitacre with a brief case when Mark was cooperating with the government. And he has a letter from his psychiatrist outlining and confirming the cruelty perpetrated on him by Agent Shepard. A letter from his psychiatrist, clearly exonerating him from all wrongdoing. Walker hands the letter over to Spearing.
I read the letter from Doctor Miller, Mark. It's not true.
It's true. Definitely-- it's on his letterhead, he signed it...
The area code ...Mark... He puts the letter in the middle of the table.
.Area code 847. It says the letter was written in November 1995- - that area code didn't exist then.
Well, everybody knew the area code change was coming. Lot's of people ordered new stationery early.
I thought about that. So I asked the phone company. This is the press release announcing the 847 area code... He puts the release on the table.
It's dated six days after your letter was written-- Doctor Miller couldn't have known about it. Whitacre stares at it-- then looks up.
Ron Henkoff from Fortune Ron Henkoff from Fortune called Doctor Miller and called Doctor Miller and Miller confirmed the Miller confirmed the letter... letter...
I called Miller, Mark. Ginger quietly starts to cry-- picks up the letter.
He can't talk to you.-That's He can't talk to you... That's a violation of doctor patient a violation of doctor patient confidentiality... confidentiality...
Doctor patient confidentiality doesn't apply to forgeries. Ginger cries harder. Whitacre tries again.
Then why did Fortune Magazine Then why did Fortune Magazine run the story... run the story... Ginger has had it, she breaks down.
Stop it...
Call Henkoff... He never wrote the letter.
Stop it, Mark. You have to stop doing this to yourself, please stop. Whitacre is done.
I think maybe I should go back to the hospital.
Case 97-2001 United states of America versus Mark Whitacre.
You have the right to make a statement if you wish? Whitacre nods and stands.
I appreciate the opportunity to say a few words, it's been a long five years. I apologize to a lot of people in this room...
And to a lot of them who are not in this room for my actions. I realize I hurt a lot of people and I apologize greatly...I am here to accept my punishment. That's all.
To observe that Mr. Whitacre is the usual felon is a gross understatement. He is well educated, has a loving wife and family, is respected in the community. It is not inconceivable that in due course he may have become CEO of Archer Daniels Midland...
I like jail. I think it's been good for me... But, the judge isn't done with him.
However, the court can find no clear connection between Mr. Whitacre's bipolar disorder and the 45 counts of criminal misconduct he has been charged with-- just garden variety greed. It is very difficult to tell when Mr. Whitacre is telling the truth...
But, I don't think what happened is fair when you look at what happened to me compared to Mick and Terry. I mean, if you go and hold up your local grocery store you might get five years...
Mick and Terry held up every grocery store in the world and they only got three... So you tell me how it makes sense that I get nine. I think that's something you should consider, Mr. President, when reviewing my request for pardon.
I'd also like to take this opportunity to apologize to Special Agent Brian Shepard on behalf of myself and my wife Ginger, he never hit me with a brief case or told me to destroy tapes. The idea to sue him wasn't mine-- it came from someone at ADM and I shouldn't have listened. I can't remember who. when I was at ADM, I lived so many lives, I wasn't sure who I was. Today, I know more who I am and what I really want out of life. I've completed three post-graduate degrees while in detention. A J.D. which is, of course, a law degree and another advanced degree in the psychology of jury selection. I sleep better in prison than I have in years. My wife has forgiven me and believes that the ordeal with ADM has brought us closer together in a marriage of over 20 years. I hope you will allow me to leave here, so that I can re-join my life with my family and three kids. . .Two of whom are adopted... Especially when you consider that thanks in large part to my testimony the US government has been able to collect over a billion dollars in price- fixing fines from big business. That's it. Thanks. He smiles. The light goes out. The Cameraman starts packing up the equipment. Out of the shadows steps Bob Herndon.
Good luck with the appeal, Mark.
Thanks for helping me remember everything Bob. I sure appreciate it. I wish Brian could've come.
He still pretty angry.
You tell him, I'm real sorry. Can you do that for me? The funny part is if I'd never gone undercover I would have never stolen 11 million. It was my way out. My severance. What else could I do-- I wrote my own severance.
Work detail.
I gotta go, Bob. Herndon does some math.
11 million? I thought it came out to nine.
Did I say eleven? Boy, it was only nine. Definitely. The eleven is with interest.
Mark, are you still taking your medication?
The doctor here says I don't need it anymore. I can manage without it now that there's less stress. It was just the stress of the FBI. Herndon turns to leave-- and then he pauses.
Mark, was it eleven? I mean there isn't something else we need to...
I don't know Bob, you tell me. He smiles and turns his back on the agent and walks down the hall toward work detail. SFX: A drum roll explodes into the roar of the CLASH'S cover of "I FOUGHT THE LAW ." As Joe Strummer sings "Breaking rocks in the hot sun..."
Mrs. Whitacre never told me anything about any hidden rooms and tunnels and neither did the realtor.
Another item...
How would you like to pay for this? Ginger opens her checkbook.
