 Me see beast today. Beast scary. Beast danger for caveman.
If caveman kill beast? Caveman safe. Caveman have food.
Who kill beast?
Grob kill beast. Good Grob.
Loser want kill beast?
Loser kill nothing!
Look at Loser cave! So small!
Loser dumb!
Fuck that guy!
The beast! It dead!
Hey, look at loser! He almost die! Look he scared!
Loser, what happen?
 The Beast, it came at me. It smash my cave.
Hold on one minute!
Loser wasn't finished.
After beast smash cave, Loser look at beast and say, "not on Loser's watch." Loser grab rock on ground, lift above head and smash it down... right onto motherfucker's head.
Loser kill beast.  Now fuck off, Loser going back to sleep.
Loser kill beast! Loser caveman hero!
The world's first lie. A monumental occasion in the history of mankind.  That lowly caveman who stumbled upon the ability to lie went on to become chief of his village, married dozens of cavewomen, and passed on the lying gene to hundreds of newborn cave-children.  Over time lying spread throughout the world, sparking the eventual birth of imagination itself, story- telling, religion, and the oh-so- important polite lie, as in, "Oh Patty, have you lost weight? You look fantastic."  The world would be a very different place if events had gone otherwise on that prolific, Paleolithic eve. If not for that night, man would have never acquired the ability to lie to himself and to others.  A world without lying would be a world without dreams. A world without pretense. A world without fiction. A world without flattery. A world very unlike our own.
Loser, what happen?
 The Beast, it came at me. It smash my cave.
Rock fall on beast. Loser do nothing. I think Loser even soil bear pants.  Loser smell bad.
Loser biggest loser ever! Caveman, throw rocks at loser!
Hi. You're early. I was just masturbating.
That makes me think of your vagina. I'm Mark, how are you?
A little frustrated at the moment. Also equally depressed and pessimistic about our date tonight. I'm Jennifer.
I hope this date ends in sex.
Not me. I don't find you attractive. Come on in.
I need to finish getting ready. While doing that I might realize I'm still horny and try to finish masturbating without you hearing.
 I feel awkward and I regret being early.
 Yeah, I'm disappointed you're early and not really looking forward to tonight in general, but the thought of being alone the rest of my life scares both my mother and I equally.
 I have an erection now because I assume you began masturbating once we stopped talking.
 I'm embarrassed because I think the restaurant I've made reservations at might not be expensive enough or hip enough to impress you, but it was the best I could do because I don't make very much money. You see, I'm forty years old and have no real financial assets to speak of, I've never owned a home, and never had a significant relationship. My boss even told me today that I'm most likely going to get fired tomorrow and...
I just masturbated.
That makes me very horny.
Shall we go?
Sure.
After you.
I'm only doing this as a favor for my cousin Greg. He keeps begging me to go out on a date with you. He says you're funny.
Greg's a good friend.
Where are we eating tonight?
A cute little place called La Bonisera in West Hollywood.
You obviously don't have very much money but that's not necessarily a deal breaker.
I have very little money.
I also don't really care about a guy who knows all the latest, hippest restaurants.
I don't know any of them.
In fact, there are very few things in life that I care about all that much. The only things I have to offer myself or anyone else are my good looks and my affected sense of quirkiness which artistically inclined men interpret as intellect. 
In fact, I think my best trait is the fact that I've made very few mistakes: socially, academically, financially or romantically. I take very few risks and therefore lead a relatively happy and light-hearted existence. Mostly though, I'm a kind, sweet person with the potential of genuinely becoming a vital and interesting human being the day I take the energy I expend on hyper self-reflexivity and apply it to actual action in the reality of my life.
I found that boring and started thinking about this place's fish tacos.
Hello.
This isn't as nice as I remember it.
What are we going to talk about?
 I'm threatened by you.
Two, please.
Of course, come with me.
I'm very embarrassed that I work here. Hi.
Hello.
Hello.
 And you're pretty and that only makes me feel worse. Can I get you two started on some drinks?
I'll have a Budweiser.
I'll start with your Mango Margarita and probably have three more drinks by the end of the night.
Excellent.  She's out of your league.
Yup.
 All of a sudden I got EXTREMELY angry!
I'm going to ask you some questions about your life because that's what you do, but I'll only really listen to about half of what you're saying.
How do you spend your days?
I get up at eight in the morning because the noise from my alarm clock interrupts my sleep, so I lean over and...
That's a little more specific than I expected.
Well what did you want to know?
Do you have a job?
Yes.
What job do you have?
I have a job at an office.
What do you do?
Just typing and filing and stuff.
Do you enjoy it?
No. But I enjoy the end result of the job which is money. And the hours are pretty good for the amount of money I make, which I spend on things I like, such as clothes, hiking, drinking -- even though I know it's bad for me. 
 But I'd rather just get all the money and not work for the results.
Sure. Tell me more. I'm trying to get a little insight into you.
Well you already know a lot about me. You know I'm good looking because... well... here I am. You know I'm successful because you've seen my apartment and the clothes I'm wearing. And you know I'm happy because I'm smiling.
Are you always happy?
Usually. Some days I stay in bed eating and crying.
Sure.
 Here you go.  I had a sip of this.
Okay.
Do you guys know what you want or do you need a moment?
I'm ready.
I'll have a caesar salad with chicken because I think I'm fat but I also think I deserve something that tastes good.
I'll have the fish taco's because I had them once here and it's all I know.
Excellent, I'll get those both started for you.
Sorry, one second.
It's my mother, this won't take long. Probably checking in on our date.
Hello? Yes, I'm with him right now. No, not very attractive. No, doesn't make much money. He's all right though. Seems nice. Kind of funny. A bit fat. Funny little snub nose. No, I won't be sleeping with him tonight. Nope, probably not even a kiss. Okay, you too. Bye.
Sorry about that.
Don't think twice. How is your mom?
She's all right.
Fantastic.
 If I give you my number will you call me?
No.
Thanks for going on this date with me. You're way, way out of my league and I know you were just doing it as a favor to Greg, and that most likely I'll never hear from you again.
I actually had a better time than I thought I'd have, but I won't know for sure how I feel about you until I'm less drunk.
Give me a call if you still like me once you're sober.
I might.
Thanks for kissing me on the cheek, I know you didn't have to do that and....
 ... you're very pretty. Thank you!
Hi, I'm Jim and I'm the spokesperson for the Coca-Cola company. I'm here today to ask you to continue buying coke. I'm sure it's a drink you've been drinking for years, and if you still enjoy it, I'd like to remind you to buy it again sometime soon. It's basically just brown sugar water, we haven't changed the ingredients much lately, so there's nothing new about it I can say. We changed the can around a little bit. See, the colors here are a little different, and we even put a polar bear on it for the kids. Also, coke is very high in sugar, can lead to obesity in children and adults who don't sustain a healthy diet, and has a Ph acidity level high enough to dissolve teeth and bones over extended periods of time. Coke also works great at removing corrosion from car batteries and loosening rusted bolts. So that's it, it's coke. Everyone knows it. It's very famous. I'm Jim, I work for coke, and I'm asking you to not stop buying coke. That's all. Thanks.
Hi Mark. How's it going?
Not so good. Last night I went on a date with a girl I've had a crush on for years who will most likely never call me again and I'm pretty sure I'm going to get fired today. You?
I spent the whole night throwing up pain killers because I'm too afraid to take enough to kill myself.
See you tomorrow.
Bye.
I'm not talking to anyone on my cell phone. I only want people to assume I'm very busy.
I woke up this morning and realized that, not only do I not love you, but that the thought of touching you sickens me.
The more you hate me the more I fall in love with you.
Move it, fatty!
This isn't natural! None of this is natural! We're all animals! This doesn't feel right! Why am I wearing clothes? How can you people live like this? Where did all this concrete come from?!
All of Lecture Films' productions are written, filmed and edited right here on this very lot. In fact, this building is where Lecture Films' talented writers scour through the world's past events, searching for the most entertaining, dramatic and even hilarious moments of world history, which are then turned into scripts, handed over to our world-famous Readers, and filmed for your viewing pleasure.
If you'll just follow me over to this monitor you'll get a sneak peak at Lecture Film's upcoming summer's blockbuster: "Napoleon 1812 to 1813."
Coming this summer from Lecture Films Motion Picture Studios. Written by Oscar winning screenwriter Rob Marlowe.
And starring Oscar winning Reader Nathan Goldfrappe, comes the epic sequel to last year's most talked about film: "Napoleon 1810 to 1811". Prepare for the adventure.
 And so Napoleon invaded Russia with a brute force of nearly seven hundred thousand men behind him armed with muskets and supported by canon brigades.
Learn of his defeat.
 Through the devastating snow they marched, crippled by disease and hunger, Napoleon's men marched on.
Listen to his redemption.
I love these films. Saves me reading the book.
Napoleon 1812 to 1813. Coming this summer from Lecture Films.
Look everyone, there goes Mark Bellison, one of Lecture Films very own screenwriters!
He's one of our least successful writers here at Lecture Films.  I also hear he's most likely getting fired today.
Now let's head to editing bay where we can watch....
Hi Shelley. I'm still attracted to you today.
Hi Mark. Everyday I realize more and more how over-qualified I am for this position and how incompetent you are at yours.
Any messages?
Anthony's coming by within the hour to see if he can work up the courage to fire you. If he can't, he said he'll definitely do it tomorrow.
Nobody else called? No calls to do with actual work?
Well, I told everybody you were getting fired this week and not to expect their calls returned, so no one left any messages.
Next time I'd rather you took down the messages just in case I don't get fired.
You're almost definitely getting fired.
Well, it hasn't happened yet.
Okay, but everybody knows you are.
Okay, I'll be in my office.
Okay, I'll be searching for new jobs on Craigslist.
Wow, you look really depressed today. That's going to make this so much harder.
Anthony, don't fire me.
Mark, the 1300's are boring. Nothing interesting happened in that century. Nobody cares about the post-Roman, pre-enlightenment era. The last few scripts you turned in were depressing.
They were about the black plague! It's the 1300's Anthony, what else am I going to write about!
It's not totally your fault, Mark. You got stuck with a bad century.
No! I can make it work!
Give it up Mark, it's not like something new is going to have happened in the 1300's. At Lecture Films we're no longer interested in searching through the less well- known historical periods for great events, we just want to take the big name Reader's of the day and have them read the historical events that people know and love: the holocaust, D-day, the birth of electricity. These are the stories people want to see, because they know them. They find comfort in them.
Do you think I could come back and do this tomorrow? I just got very nervous about firing you. I don't do well with confrontation.
Is there anyway you could do it now? I'd rather not put it off.
 You're fired?
Damn.
She's a really good writer, too.
I loathed almost every minute I worked for you.
I often fantasized about you naked.
What are you going to do now?
I have no idea. But I have very little hope for the future.
I don't have much hope for you either, but I wish you good luck.
Bye, Shelley.
Bye, Mark.
So they fucking fired you, huh dipshit? I always knew the Black Plague would never work as a movie. Guess the 1300's were as much of a loser as you are.
Please don't make me feel worse. Or actually whatever, go ahead, I don't think I could possibly feel worse.
I fucking always hated you. You're a shitty writer assigned to a shitty century and you're a little man bitch. But I was always threatened by you because I knew there was something different about you that I didn't understand and I fucking hate things I don't understand. But you will always be a loser and I will always be more successful than you in nearly every way. That's just the way it is. And Shelley calls you an ass fag behind your back.
Well, now I feel worse.
Are you looking to abandon an elderly person?
I already have. Martha Bellison. I'm her grandson.
Ooh, it's good you're here. She's not doing well. You should say your final goodbyes today.
You say that every time I'm here.
She's at the top of our death pool.
Oh Grandma, that is so depressing. Come on, at least stare at the ceiling or something.
The television is broken.
The television isn't broken. You probably sat on the remote and changed it to channel two again.
See, you had it on the wrong channel. It needs to be on channel three in order for the satellite to work.
I don't understand anything you just said and that makes me scared and angry.
I can't understand what it feels like to be you so it just irritates me and makes me think you're stupid. But I also love you and wish things were better for you.
I do too.
Grandma, I lost my job today. I'm forty years old. I'm completely alone and I've got absolutely no prospects for anything.
I'm sorry, Mark. Things aren't any better for me here. I can't afford most of my medication, I'm very alone and I forget more and more every day.
I'm just so tired of life. Why does life have to be so... what's the word? Don't you sometimes wish you could change things? Don't you sometimes wish you weren't such a loser?
I don't think I'm a loser.
Of course you're a loser, grandma. Our family is made up of losers. We're all poor, we're all average looking, we're all only moderately intelligent, we're all lonely and unloved.
Well, we're poor because we weren't born with money and it's very hard to make enough money in a single lifetime to move from one social class to another. We're only moderately intelligent because there's been a lot of inbreeding in our lineage. And we're only lonely and unloved right now. Remember, I've had two husbands I loved very much in my lifetime. 
And maybe one day you'll have a wife that you love very much too.
Yeah, but I'm not talking about the past, Grandma. I'm talking about right now. And right now we're both losers, Grandma. We're both shitty, shitty losers. Don't you know that?
I suppose we are. But things could be worse. We could be homeless.
I'd rather be dead than be homeless. That's why I need to get out there and find a job. If I have to be homeless, I'm going to kill myself.
Well that's sad. I love you, Mark. Good luck finding a job!
I love you too, Grandma.
Oops.
I'll start looking for a job tomorrow.
Lately I don't like Indian people.  I don't like white people even more though. I fucking hate white people. I fucking hate people.
Hey, thanks for setting me up with your cousin by the way.
Third cousin. She's hot right?
Very.
Way out of your league. Dunno why you bothered.
It felt nice to go out with someone that pretty. Like for just one moment I experienced what it would be like to be the type of person someone like that would date. It felt good. Doesn't matter anyway. I will always be just who I am right now: average looking, of average intelligence with an average personality. Just a completely generic human being.
Your life is still better than mine.
By a good margin.
Lately I've been crying in my sleep and waking up in a pool of urine.
I really wish I had a better friend than you.
So, what are you going to do now?
I don't know. Guess I'll start looking for another crappy job.
Doubt you'll find one. Not much need for an out-of-work writer specializing in the Black Plague.
I'm going to go now. You're seriously depressing me. I really wish I was cool enough to have a better friend than you.
I'm the best you're gonna get, man. Call me later.
Yeah.
Hello?
Hello? I can hear you breathing. Is this a rapist?
 No, it's Mark. I'm sorry.
Shut the fuck up, I don't even have a job!
I'm here for the rent.
I was going to come talk to you about that. I got fired yesterday.
I know. That's why I'm here for the rent.
Well, I haven't got it.
How much do you have?
I think I've got about three hundred dollars in my bank account.
The rent is eight hundred dollars.
I know. I haven't got it.
Then you're evicted. I'll help you with your things.
Help me with the couch. It looks heavy.
You have one day to get your things out of this hallway.
How am I supposed to do that?
You've got three hundred dollars. Rent a truck.
Oh, fuck me.
How can I help you today?
I'd like to make a withdrawal.
Okay, sir. I'm confident I can help you with that.
I've just been evicted from my apartment so I need to withdraw what I have left in my account so I can move my things out. I guess I need to close out my account to do that.  I think I'm about to be homeless.
Unfortunately sir the system is down right now so I'm not going to be able to perform an account closure until the system is back up. But I can assist you in a withdrawal. How much would you like to withdraw?
Well, I'd like to withdraw eight hundred dollars.
How much are you going to withdraw today, sir?
All of it. Just whatever is left.
The system is down, sir. Please tell me how much you have in your account?
Sir?
 Eight hundred dollars.
Pardon me?
 I have eight hundred dollars in my bank account.
Wait a second here. The system just came back up.  System seems to be back up, guys.  Just one second while I access your account. You said you're withdrawing eight hundred, correct?
Yup.
Well, look at this. It says here you've only got three hundred dollars in your account. But you said you wanted to withdraw eight hundred?
I apologize for this sir, but it seems our system has made a mistake. Hold on one second while I go and get your eight hundred dollars. Did you want that in large or small bills?
Large bills.
 Guys the computers seem to be a bit buggy. Will someone call James to come in and look into it, please?
There you are. Eight hundred dollars. Anything else I can do for you today?
Sometimes our computers can get a bit buggy, especially when the system goes down. Sorry for any inconvenience.
It's no problem.
What are you doing here?
Paying my rent.
Where did you get this money?
It was amazing. I went in to the bank and the system was down and I was going to take out three hundred dollars but she asked me how much I'd like to take out and...
I found it. Lying on the street.
Okay. Lucky.
Give me my key back.
Today I stumbled upon something no man has ever stumbled upon before. What I have done today they will write about in history books for generations to come. And yet, only moments ago... it was unfathomable not only to myself, but to mankind as a whole. What I have found there is no word for. And it was as simple as...  ... how do I explain this... 
... I said something... that wasn't.
Huh?
I said something... that... wasn't. I... what's the word I'm looking for? Well, there is no word. Of course there's not, I just invented it.
Here. Watch.  Jim.
What?
 My name is Doug.
 Your name is Doug.
 Hi Doug.
It amazes me that I never knew your real name.  Doug is good. It suits you.
Come on guys. Are you serious? What's my name?
It's Doug.
Doug.
No. My name is Mark.
 Your name is Mark.
 Hi Mark.
Mark suits you much better.
Mark-o.
You guys aren't following me.  Okay, guys...I'm black.
I knew it.
You're very light skinned, but I can see it.
I've always wanted a black friend.
Fuck it, I'm an Eskimo.
Fantastic.
I've never seen a black Eskimo.
Okay, I'm a pirate.
I didn't know they still had those.
Are you a dangerous pirate?
Okay then, I'm a lion tamer... and I have purple hair.
Aren't you scared you'll get bitten one day?
 I want to die my hair purple just like Mark's.
I'm a one-armed Jewish space explorer.
When's your launch date?
Shalom. How'd you lose your arm?
I invented the bicycle.
I love your work.
Can you get me a discount on a ten speed?
I give up. And I'm bored.
Guys, if you had the power to make things the way you wanted them, what would you do first?
If I could do anything in the world?
Anything at all?
Pretty much.
I'd bone bitches asses.
Right in the ass.
Specifically the ass?
If I could change things I would make all the hot chicks bone me.
Agreed.
Alright then, let's try that.
Where are you going?
Out.
Don't look at me, I'm not attracted to you.
Wait!
Don't bother. I've heard it all before.
 THE WORLD IS GOING TO END IF WE DON'T HAVE SEX RIGHT NOW!
Do we have time to get to a motel or do we have to do it right here?
 I'm sorry, I'm just so scared. I don't want the world to end. 
I don't want to die in this motel room. I think I'm going to throw up. Help me get my pants off.
This isn't right.
No! We have to have sex! The world is going to end! Think of the children and little babies!
Just calm down for one second.
How can I be calm? The world might end any second! DON'T YOU UNDERSTAND?! WE'RE ALL GOING TO DIE!!
 Hello... NASA? Yes, it's... me. Oh, good. That's very good news. Good news indeed.
We're going to be okay. The world isn't going to end. Everyone is going to be fine.
WE'RE GOING TO LIVE! We're going to live! Thank you! Thank you!
This has been the worst... and the best... day of my life.
Okay, I gotta go.
Oh no, please stay. We've been through so much together.
I'm an asshole.
 Well, I hate assholes. Get out of here.
That was one of the worst experiences of my life.
 Did you invent a new kind of bike?
What else would you do if you could do anything in the world?
Bone chicks asses. That's what I'd do.
What else though. What's the second thing you'd do.
What else would you do, dipshit?
I'd get money. I'd get all the money.
Yeah. Let's do that. Greg, let's go.
What?
We're going on a trip.
I'll drive.
Thanks for driving man, I'm completely plastered.
I'm just as hammered as you. But I don't care if I get arrested. I'm trying to hit bottom.
Here comes bottom.
Nothing safer than pulling over two nerdy white guys in their forties.
I don't want to go to jail.
Are you drunk?
Yes.
Then you're going to jail. Blow in here, son.
Wait, officer. Don't do that.
I don't think you can afford my bribe, son.
How much does it cost to bribe you?
At least five grand.
I need to feel that I've got some sense of integrity.
Whoa, that's off the charts. Step out of the car, son. You're drunk and going to jail.
Wait.  He's not drunk.
Oh.
Damn thing must be broken.
 Son, you might want to drive yourself to the nearest hospital. You have food poisoning or some kind of flu.
 Maybe you oughta drive, son.
Good idea.
That was awesome!
Stop laughing, I'm sick.
You're gonna be all right, Greg.
Oh good!
Stupid stomach flu.  Where are we going?
Vegas, baby. Vegas.
What are we doing here? We don't have any money to throw away.
Sure we do.
What is that, a few hundred bucks? That's not going to last us very long.
Sure it will.
Chips please.
There's a very good chance you'll lose all this money here tonight.
I know.
And even if you do happen to win, there's an even better chance that in the long run we'll win it back.
I know.
Some of the games are fixed. Like all the ones that use computers.
I know.
If I could be a stripper I would, but I'm not attractive enough. Drinks, guys?
No. I have a stomach flu.
We'll both have beers and we'll take them at that roulette table over there.
Oh come on, roulette is the stupidest game of them all. It's pure chance, no skill whatsoever.
It's okay. I'm feeling lucky.
You've never had a lucky day in your life.
Just watch.
Get your bets in, get your bets in. The house always wins in the long run. Because of the zero's on the board every bet is slightly favored towards the house.
Twenty-seven red. No one wins.
I'm on twenty-seven red.
We have a winner. Congratulations, sir.
You did it. You just, like, quadrupled your money. You lucky son of a bitch.
That's nothing. Watch this.
Get your bets in, get your bets in. The house always wins in the long run. Fork over your money right here folks. I say this so often I want to kill myself.
Nine black. No winners.
I'm on nine black. These are all mine.
Nine black wins. Big winner. Congratulations, sir.
Do it again.
I don't think I should. Lets go play slots.
Hi, I just won a major jackpot on this slot machine but no money came out.
I'm sorry about that, sir. Let me get that fixed for you. And can I say congratulations, sir.
Thank you.
This is the most amazing night of my life.
It amazes me the winning streak you're on. You must be the luckiest man in the world.
Well, sort of.
It was like we couldn't lose.
We couldn't lose.
Do you have a system?
I've got a system.
Well, with your system in just a few weeks I figure we could be the richest people in the world.
And then what?
Well, here's what I'm thinking. We take all the money in the world... and put it on black.
Why put it on black? Why stop there? Put it on a number and get thirty five times back.
That's exactly what we'll do.
Hold on, I think I found a flaw in your plan. How can they pay us if we have all the money in the world?
Well, they'd just have to.
Well, they can't because we've got it all.
Well, they'd better find it. They can't let us bet if they're not going to pay us back. They'll have to just give us the casino.
We already own the casino. We've got all the money in the world. We'll be betting against ourselves.
Then we'll go to another casino.
We own that one too. We won that.
So we own all the casino's?
Yup.
And if we win we can't pay us back because we already have all the money?
Yes.
Only one thing we can do then.
I'm listening.
Take ourselves into the back room and break our own fingers.
Brilliant.
Hey there, Frank.
Mark. How's it going?
Pretty good, thanks.
Really?
Yeah. You?
Awful. I was doing some internet research last night about suffocation suicide. I'm probably going to give that a try tonight.
Oh.  All right. Bye, Frank.
Bye.
Frank!
Yeah?
Don't do it.
Why not? I'm miserable. And no one will care.
I'll care.
You're a loser, though.
Don't do it, Frank. Things are going to be all right.
They are?
Yes. You're going to meet someone soon. You won't be so lonely. Things are going to turn around at your job.
My job's actually fine.
Well, things are going to get better. Better than they are.
What about the depression?
It will go away very soon. You're going to be happy soon, Frank. You just need to wait for it. Listen to me: you don't need to kill yourself.
Really?
Really.
Wow. Man, and that suffocation thing really seemed like a good idea.
It wasn't.
Okay. Well, my night's open now. You want to hang out later?
I don't know. Not really.
Sure. Of course. Let's hang out.
I'll see you after work.
Great.
 I've discovered something today very important... and very powerful.
I'm as excited as I've ever been in my entire life, and equally scared. 
I'm writing this down in a letter in case this thing I've discovered somehow ends up killing me. I want to ensure that, even if I wasn't strong enough to use it, that my invention doesn't once again disappear, never to be discovered again.
In just a few hours since I stumbled upon my discovery I have seen its potential for evil and I have seen its potential for good.
I must be careful with my discovery, for at this point I barely understand it, let alone think I have the power to control it. All I know is that if I'm not careful I could easily do irreparable damage to the world, or even cause my own premature death.
Now, to explain my invention. In essence, my creation is the act of saying words that simply are not. For example, if I tell someone that my eyes are blue, then it simply becomes fact. I still know that, indeed, my eyes are brown, but no one else is aware of this fact, so therefore I have blue eyes. 
It's a game of numbers: there is only one of me who knows I have brown eyes, and so many of them who do not. The numbers always win.
Whoever is reading this, go ahead and try it. Tell someone your eyes are a different color then they are. I think you'll be amazed at the results. It's so simple and yet... so powerful... this thing I've invented.
Au Revoir, future reader, au revoir.
Jennifer. It's Mark.
Are you gonna hang up on me again?
No. Maybe. Who knows. I'm calling because I want to ask you out on another date.
Why would you do that?
I discovered something yesterday. I found out I can pretty much have my life anyway I want it from now on.
Congratulations. I gotta go.
Wait, and I know you said you didn't want to date me ever again, but I'm different now. Things have changed. I think I'm in your league now.
You're better looking?
No. I'm not better looking. I'm just more... powerful. I think you have to see it for yourself.
Have you been to the gym?
No, I haven't been to the gym. It's just... it's amazing. Things are different for me now. You have to see this. I think you'll hardly recognize me.
Did you buy better clothes?
No, look can we just meet up?
Jennifer, If there was even a glimmer of something about me that you liked, please say yes. You even admitted that we got along well. Just give me one more chance. Just one little teensy, tiny date.
Okay, fine.
Fantastic. Tomorrow night. I'll pick you up at eight.
Most likely it'll be our last date though, so just know that.
 That's very sweet.
No it wasn't. Did you not hear what I said?
Yeah, no I was being...  ...there's no word for it. See you tomorrow night.
Bye.
Hello, I'm Angelo Badmsith. Come watch me read about the exciting events that took place during the Industrial Revolution. 
Also, I will tell you all about my personal misfortunes, such as my wife who cheated on me with a man named Perry.
Rob Marlowe, your streak of success has finally come to an end.
He's gone crazy!
Come to beg for your old job back? Hey everybody, here's the loser who thought the Black Plague would make for an interesting film. Good luck, douche bag. Freaking loser.
They're going to fire me any moment, I just know it. I'm really, really horrible at my job. I don't know anything about movies. I don't even like movies. I like sports. Head of development, what does that even mean? I'm not a smart person. Okay, talk to you later.
That was the head of the studio.  I'm very scared that you're mad at me about the whole firing thing.
I'm not mad at all.
Oh good, because I feel really bad about it. I mean, I would be horrible at your job too. I would be horrible at any job in this place.  I love sports.
Why are you here?
When you fired me, I was very depressed.
I knew it.
And so I left this building and I just started walking. And I walked all the way out of town. And then I walked into the desert and I fell asleep under a tree.
I don't do well with other people's life changing events.
And when I woke up I found this strange old chest sticking out of the ground. So I started digging. And I unearthed a very old and ancient box. Probably, oh... about... seven hundred years old. And inside the box...  ... was this.
What is it?
It's a never-before-heard historical event from the past.
When does it take place?
The 1300's.
I told you we're not interested in Black Plague movies here, Mark.
This one isn't about the black plague. Well it isn't just about the black plague. Let me read you some of this.
Anthony, get excited about this. This is a brand new event from history that no one has ever heard before. It's a great human discovery.
Yeah, but is there a movie there?
The greatest movie Lecture Films has ever made.
Start reading.
 On the very first day of the fourteenth century, a momentous occasion occurred. It began as a day much like any other. The sun rose, the people awoke, workers began to work, babies began to cry. But all of that was interrupted when a giant flying space ship crashed down from the skies and landed in the heart of Babylon.
What?!
I want everyone in here now! We've got a BIG ONE.
Please, Mark. Continue.
 As the smoke cleared, the door to the spaceship opened and inside, were hundreds of beautiful, half naked alien women.
 And then the ninja army unleashed a giant fireball that brought the robot dinosaur to its knees, saving Mars, Earth and the Nude Amazonian Alien Women all in one sweeping motion. The earth was saved. Jebediah and Aleena were allowed to marry by alien king Xardon. It was to be the First Human-Nude Amazonian Alien Woman wedding, and no expenses would be spared. All of Babylon and Mars were invited to join in the celebrations.
 The wedding was held on a brisk summers day on Mars, with all of the survivors of the Great Ninja War and the Black Plague present. They feasted and danced and laughed and it was a joyous occasion. 
The moment the bride and groom kissed, King Xardon performed a mind-wipe on all of the humans, thereby erasing all knowledge of these events from their minds, and sent them back to Babylon. For seven hundred years these events would be forgotten by mankind until one day, a great writer by the name of Mark Bellison, would stumble upon them in the desert, after being fired by his shit boss Anthony and mocked by Rob and Shelly, two huge douche bags. Lecture Films Motion Picture Studios would go on to make the picture and it would be a big success, and Mark would become very wealthy and famous from it. The End.
Mark, tell us what it's called.
 The Black Plague.
Congratulations on selling your script today.
Thanks. Thank you for having dinner with me.
Everyone needs to eat.  And I enjoy your company.
I'm an extremely important waiter.  What can I get you?
I don't want to know what it is, I just want to order the most expensive thing on the menu.
I'll have the duck. And I think you look like a little rat faced man.
Okay, I'll have those right up for you.
Things seem to be turning around for you.
Today is the best day of my life. Hands down. Easy. Best day.
It's not every day you unearth a monumental historical event and sell it for a ton of money.
That wasn't the best part. It was great, but it wasn't the peak of my day.  I've had a crush on you ever since I saw a picture of you on Greg's refrigerator two years ago.
Oh.
The best part of my day today is right now, sitting at this table here with you.
Oh.
You're the most beautiful woman I've ever seen in my life, and you're special... and it makes me happy to be around you.
Thank you.
Tell me something about your family. I really don't know much about you.
Ah, my family. We're what you'd probably call "not lucky". My whole family is kind of marked by tragedy, bad luck and general... shittiness. It goes back a long ways and could probably drive someone to suicide just hearing about it, so I'll keep it simple. My mom died when I was six. Cancer.
Sad.
And my dad got real depressed and lost his job. Out of work and with a kid to raise he had no choice but to turn to a life of crime.
What kind of crime?
He was a robber. Houses mostly.
 Hi, I'm calling to let you know I'll be robbing your house today. I'll probably be there within the hour.  I hope you're not there.
He was a very unlucky man. He spent his last days behind bars. I never really knew him.  But I guess I've also had a little luck in my life. I did have a wonderful grandmother who raised me.
Oh, that's sweet.
Yeah, she's great.
Where is she?
Old person's home obviously. Who wants to live with that? Gross.
I know, right?
But I'm going to get her out of there tomorrow. 
I'm going to buy her a big beautiful mansion where she can spend her few remaining days in luxury.
That's nice.
I don't know what's wrong with the chef today, but these just look awful.
They look fine to me.
Well, you're stupid.
Right. I was thinking that since I'm going to be rich and successful now that I might be in your league.  And that maybe we could be together. Romantically.
What would be the point?
Well, I don't know, maybe we might enjoy it. Maybe we'd be good together and could have a happy life, raise a family together.
Well, I do like you. And I enjoy your company. 
And if we were to get together and procreate I would like the offspring that are carrying half my genetic code to be well taken care of and financially stable. I also think you'd make a good father and a good husband, which I like.
Good. Fantastic.
Unfortunately, none of that changes the fact that you'd still be contributing half of the genetic code to our children.  I don't want short, fat kids with little snub noses.
Sure.
Hello?  What?
 WHAT?
Grandma, they just called me. What's going on? Are you okay?
I don't know, I fell on my way back to my room.
What do the doctors say?
They say I'll probably die tonight.
What?
Oh, hello. I was just coming in to check on her, you must be Martha Bellison's grandson.
What are you talking about she's going to die?
I'm sorry. It just doesn't look good. She's suffered a major heart attack and her heart is very weak, her pulse not very strong, her blood pressure is dropping rapidly and most likely she'll have a fatal heart attack during the night.
Fuck.
Yup, still going to die.
I'm sorry, guys. I wish I felt something for you two, but I really don't. I do this exact thing about thirty times a night and it's really hardened me to human suffering. On a side note, it's fajita night at the cafeteria downstairs. You might think about grabbing a bite to eat there after your grandma dies.
I'm so scared, Mark. I don't want to die. You know, people don't talk about it much, but death is a horrible thing. One minute you're alive, there's a whole world around you, humming and jumping, people coming in and out, doors opening and closing, love and anger and the whole mess of it all, and then like that, it's all gone.  This is it Mark, only a few hours left of this until an eternity of nothingness.
Grandma!
She's seizing.
I'm scared.
Listen closely to me, Grandma. I have a surprise for you.
You're wrong about what happens when you die. It's not an eternity of nothingness.
When you die you're going to go to your favorite place in the whole world. And you're going to be with all of the people you've ever loved and who have ever loved you. And you're going to be young again, and you'll be able to run through the fields and dance and jump, and there will be no sadness, no pain, just love and laughing and happiness. There will be ponies made of gold, and everyone will live in giant mansions, and everything will smell like cookies. And it will last for an eternity, Grandma. An eternity.
Go on.
What else happens?
Do your jobs!
You're going to be happy forever, grandma. I promise you. Say hello to my mom for me. Tell her I love her.
 I'm going to see my mother again when I die.
Tell us more, please.
Damn it.
I'm so sorry, Mark.
I think I just did something bad.
Do you want to come inside?
Hi.
Hi.
There he is!
Is there only one place you go when you die?
Will everyone who has ever died be there?
What's this place called?
Will I get to have sex with people there?
You owe us an explanation. If you know something this important, you better tell us all.
Who are you people?
The words you spoke last night, to your grandmother, spread like wildfire. Please, tell us more. Explain what you said.
Fine, fine, just give me a minute.
 You've been gone for twenty minutes and I turn on the T.V to see you on every station. What's going on? This is seriously the weirdest thing...
Remember last night when I said I think I did something bad? Well now I know I did something bad.
They're saying that you know something different about what happens after you die.
Hold on.
Twenty-four hours ago, Mark Bellison was just your typical nobody writer. 
Today, people are saying he knows new information about what happens after you die.
Fuck.
Mark, what do you know? What did you tell your grandmother last night? What's going on?
I can't explain it all right now. Why don't you come over?
Okay.
Come up quick, they look like they could get out of hand any second.
Just tell me what you told your grandmother.
I don't think I should. Who knows what could happen next? I'm just going to keep my mouth shut from now on.
What you said obviously affected a lot of people. I don't think you have the choice to keep it in now.
Sure I do. I could just walk out that door and get on a plane and go to Namibia. No one knows me in Namibia.
Just tell me what you said. Please, Mark.
My grandmother was dying, and she was terrified, shaking all over. She didn't want to just become nothingness. So I told her that when she died there wouldn't be nothingness. That she would be with all of the people she loved who had died and that she would live an eternity of joy and happiness.
 How do you know these things?
You have to tell them everything you know. This is too big. You have no choice.
But you don't understand. The words I said... they weren't... it's not right.
How did your grandmother feel when you told her these things?
Happy. At peace.
And how did that make you feel?
Good.
 Think how good it will feel to do the same for all of these people.
Okay. But I need a few hours to get my thoughts together.
I'll go tell them.
Wait! Are you sure this is right?
Of course it is. You know something that's going to change mankind forever. It's the most important thing the world has ever heard.
I brought pizza. How come you never told me we all get mansions?
I didn't...
Inventing the bicycle is one thing, but this...
Shut up. Let him work.
In Seoul Korea, they wait. In Rome, Italy, they wait. In London, England, they wait. In New York City, they wait. The world has come to a standstill, everyone at their televisions and radios, or here on this lawn, waiting for Mark Bellison to come forth and tell the people what he knows.
I'm done.
Are you ready?
I guess.
I feel like I should be reading these off of something other than just notebook paper. I wish they were like, written on large tablets or even just nicer paper or something.
Feels better.
Just tell them what you know
Good luck out there, man.
I heard that he said we all get mansions, and that there's even ponies.
 Ponies. Mansions. Ice Cream. These are the things we can all expect when we die. What else can we expect? We won't know until Mark Bellison steps out of that...
 THERE HE IS!
Hello.
Oh, thanks.
Wow.
So. I guess you've all heard the things I told my grandmother last night and... I understand why you're here.  I know... some things. Some very important things. And I'm going to share these things with you now.
Everything you want to know is written here. On this old pizza box.
 Number one: There is a man who lives in the sky who controls everything. Number two...
 Whoa, whoa whoa. What does he look like?
 Tall. Big hands. A good head of hair.
What ethnicity is he?
 He's a new ethnicity. It's like a mix of all of our ethnicities.
Does he live on a cloud?
Can we see him?
 No. He lives much higher than the clouds, too high to see.
So he lives in space?
No, not that high.
So you mean the Thermosphere?
Look, people I got a lot to get through here. I'm just telling you what I know: Man. Lives in the sky. You can't see him. Controls everything. Cool?
Number two: When you die you don't disappear into an eternity of nothingness. Instead, you go to a really great place.  Number three: In that place every person will get a mansion.
What kind of mansion?
I don't know. Whatever kind of mansion you're thinking of right now.
Oh no! I wasn't thinking of a mansion!
Shit! I was thinking of a horrible mansion!
Look, it's the best mansion you can think of, not just now, but ever. Whatever the best mansion for you can possibly be, that's the one you'll get.  Number four: When you die, all the people you love will be there too.
Will they have their own mansions?
Yes, of course. Everyone gets a mansion.
What if I want them to live in my mansion?
If they want to live with you, they can leave their mansion and live in yours.
What happens to their mansion?
I don't know, it goes back on the market.
What about the people I hate? Will they be there too?
No.
Where are they?
Okay, they're probably there, but you'll never see them. They're far off, too far for you to get there.
But what if they try to find me?
They won't. They hate you too.
But what if they don't? What if they love me but I hate them?
Well then you're just... you'll both be fine with it. There's only love there, okay?  Number five: When you die there will be free ice cream. All day. All night. Whatever flavor you can think of.
What, even bad flavors?
But why would you eat bad flavors?
Well, you just said every flavor I can think of.
Oh no, I just thought about vanilla and skunks!
Well don't eat it then!
I've just thought the chocolate sauce is diarrhea!
Well don't put it on then! What's wrong with you people? I mean...  
Number six: If you do bad things you won't get to go to this great place when you die.
Where will you go?
A terrible place. The worst place imaginable.
What constitutes a bad thing?
Murder. Crime. Rape. Things like that.
You have to tell us all the things or else we might do them and it wouldn't be our fault!
Fine.
Is punching someone bad?
Yes.
What if they're trying to hurt you?
Then it's fine.
Is cursing bad?
No.
What about being late for work?
That's fine too. I mean, you might lose your job if your boss doesn't like it, but it won't effect what happens after you die.
What about if you forget to feed your dog?
That also is fine. Unless the dog dies. Then it's bad.
If you do just one bad thing do you go to the bad place?
No. You get...  ... three chances. If you do three bad things you're out.
Like baseball!
Kind of, yes.
Any more?
Look, can we just move on?
No! We have to know everything that's bad!
Fine. Let's start with you... 
Is it bad to wear pants?
No. There's no hairstyle that will put you in the bad place. Like I've told you, the main things are hurting people physically on purpose, taking people's stuff, doing things to people they don't want done, killing people on purpose. Okay? Are we good?
 I've done many of those bad things. Is there anything I can do to not go to the bad place? Help me, I'm so scared.
Well, you didn't know about these bad things until I told you just now so you're fine.
 Am I fine?
 What about me?
You're all fine! I'm only talking about people who do bad things starting right now. Everyone else is fine.
 Number seven: The man in the sky who controls everything decides if you go to the good place or the bad place. He also decides who lives and who dies.
Does he cause natural disasters?
Yes.
Did he cause my mom to get cancer?
Yes.
Did he cause that tree to land on my car last week?
Yes.
Yeah! That guy's a fucking asshole!
That motherfucker better hope I never see him face to face!
That guy's a fucking coward! Hiding up there and doing bad shit to us! Why doesn't he do it to our faces?
We need to stop that motherfucker before he kills us all!
 WAIT!
This guy who lives in the sky and controls everything is also responsible for all the good stuff that happens.
He's the guy who saved my life on that fishing trip when the boat capsized?
Yup.
Did he capsize the boat?
Well, yes.
He's the one who killed my grandmother and left me those millions of dollars?
You betcha.
So is he the same one who cured my mom's cancer?
That too.
So he's kind of a good guy, but he's also kind of a prick too?
Right. But check this out:  Number eight: Even if the man in the sky does bad shit to you, he makes it up to you by giving you an eternity of good stuff after you die.
As long as you don't do any of the bad stuff you listed, right?
Right. Of course.
So it's kind of a test?
Yes. Right.  Well, that's it. That's everything I know.
How do you know these things?
 The man in the clouds told me.
Yeah, but how come we're just learning these things now, millions of years into our existence?
I don't know, he forgot or something. I gotta go people, good night!
You think that went well?
So then the flying duck flew all the way to Alaska where it met up with a polar bear who could talk. And the polar bear's name was Martin. And the polar bear was wearing a green cape. And Martin and the flying duck both had race cars with their names printed on the side and...
I just saw three people climbing the fence into your backyard. You really need to think about getting better security. (noticing beer cans EVERYWHERE) Mark, how many of those have you had?
 But then the evil goblin witch came in and stole the flying duck's race car and made the flying duck very angry.  
Luckily the Polar Bear was there to snatch the race car back...  Unfortunately, the witch was a smart witch and the polar bear was powerless.
Is that the end?
Yeah.
That's a strange ending.
Hey, don't look at me: it's the Man in the Sky's story.
You want me to take this over to Lecture Films?
Yeah. Tell them to shoot that one this week.
 Tell them it's for kids!
What?
You haven't left the house in weeks. Every time I come by you're just sitting here writing down stories you get from the Man in the Sky.
Hey, he's the boss.
Don't you think you should go outside sometime? You know there's about five thousand people on our lawn waiting to ask you questions.
Yeah, yeah.
What's with you? You seem sad.
I don't get it. You're a very successful writer, you've won countless awards and Oscars...
You've changed the way people see the world, the way they see death and life. You've made the entire world happy.
Not the entire world.
I know. Not you. The one person who should be happy, the person who has everything...
 Not everything.
What else do you want?
I'd trade it all in for you. All of it.
Well, you've got me. As a friend.
 Yeah. That's important. 
But why can't we be together. Why can't you be with me?
Because of the whole snub nosed thing. With kids, your genetics. You know, fat, short...
 Yeah. Okay. Yup.  It's almost a shame that being rich and powerful and famous doesn't change your genetics.
What?
It would be great if it changed your genetic material because I really love you but I just don't...
It does change your genetics.
Does it?
No. No, it doesn't. Our kids would be short and fat with little snub noses.
Right. Too bad.  Anyway, I've come to tell you I can't go to the movies with you tonight.
Why not?
I've got a date.
What? With who?
Rob Marlowe.
You've got to be fucking... Rob Marlowe?!? He's a complete and total asshole.
Not to me. He's very sweet and kind to me.
Well of course he is, look at you. I mean, for fuck's sake, a shark would be nice to you...
It would?
Well no, I mean...  Don't go out with him.
Why not? He's a great match for me.
What's he got that I don't?
We talked about this. If you and I got together it wouldn't be fair to our kids. They have the right to be attractive and have good genes.  If Rob and I get married You can move into our mansion with us when we all die.
I don't want to move into your fucking mansion. And what are you doing thinking about marriage with him already? You haven't even gone on one date.
It's like nothing's changed.
A lot of things have changed. I wish you could be happy.
That's him. Gotta go.
He's picking you up here?
It was his idea.
What's up? Wow, I can't wait to have sex with you.
Oh hey there, Mark. You look like trash.  Come on Jennifer, let's go have some fun. And then have some sex.
I'll call you tomorrow.
Who was that?
Hey, watch this.  HEY PEOPLE!
The man in the sky just told me something!
You're all gay!
And adopted!
I don't know why we're laughing. It's really probably very sad for those people.
I'm gettin' a beer.
Out of beer. Just Coke.
I want to do something big again. Like telling the people what happens when they die. That felt good. I gotta do something big like that again.
Maybe the Man in the Sky will tell you something new.
Maybe.
Ugh, this shit is so bad for you. I really shouldn't drink this.
Hey, Greg. What if I told you that drinking Coke was good for you?
And not just Coke. But all the delicious foods you're not supposed to eat. What if they were all of a sudden really, really good for you?
It would be the happiest day of my life.
Gentleman, thank you all for coming here on such short notice. I have some very big news for you all today.
Is it from the Man in the Sky?
Nope, this one I came up with all on my own. And it's going to change the way you all do business... forever.
Up until now, all products sold worldwide have warning labels printed on them. Warnings like these.
As you can see, a lot of these products can be very depressing. They remind people of all the horrible things that can happen to them in life. People hate thinking about horrible things.
Yeah, but they have to know those things. 
They have to be able to protect themselves. I don't want to hurt anyone. Especially now that I know about the "bad place".
Hear me out, fellas. Allow me to introduce you to the future of your companies.
Where can I get some of that healthy coke?
It's the same Coke as before.
But this one is healthy! And it tastes great!
Do you have any samples?
Guys, it's the same Coke on the inside. I've just changed the outside.
 Somehow by changing the outside, he's also changed the inside!
Oh, thank goodness. I've always hated flying!
Me too!
What an invention! How did you do it?
I didn't do anything, guys. I made this on my computer last night. The plane is exactly the same as it was before.
That's the only plane I'll ever fly on again!
That's the point here guys. With these new advertising strategies, people will buy your products with abandon.
But it will take years to replace all of our stock with these new improved products you've invented.
No. It won't. All you have to do is print these words on the packaging. That's it.
Even if you don't understand it, just start shipping these products out to people as you see them here and you're all going to get very, very rich.
How did you do it?
Look, they're still the same products you have on the shelves right now. The only difference now is that people won't get bummed out or scared when they use them. Isn't that a good thing?
Gentleman, if you'll excuse me, I have five thousand gay orphans on my front lawn that are going bananas.
Thank the Man in the Sky for this. I've never been happier in my life. Now I can eat whatever I want, whenever I want.
Are you all right, sir?
Yeah. I must just be real happy. It says on the wrapper that they help boost your happiness.
You should slow down there, Greg.
Why's that?
Just because the package says it's not bad for you doesn't mean you have to gorge yourself on it.
But it tastes so good.
That's just stupid.
No it's not.
See?
You look sad. Here, have a brownie. They'll cheer you up.
I wish that worked for me, Greg.
What?
Nevermind. I'll see you around.
I'm not talking to anyone on my cell phone. But from a distance I look very important and busy.
No, I won't move into your mansion with you when we die. You're really smothering me.
The more you push me away, the more attracted I am to you.
Move it, fatty!
Hey you're Mark Bellison!
Yeah. So are you going to apologize?
For what?
Nothing's really changed. I gave people the Man in the Sky, made myself rich and successful, told the world they can eat whatever they want and feel good about it. Everyone's happy but me. Because I'm the only one who knows it all... isn't. I made it all up.  You're not up there living in a mansion. You're right here. In the ground. That's all. And I'm the only one who knows that.  And the one thing I want I can't have. Because the world is too stupid to change. The world only cares about what they can see, and what they can know, and what they're used to and what... makes sense. No one listens to what they really want. And that's why I'll always just be a loser, grandma. And that's why I'll always be alone.
Who's there?
It's me. Can I come in?
Sure.
Haven't seen you much lately.
I know. I've been busy with work and things. And I'm getting married. That's why I came over. To tell you.
Don't do it.
The wedding is tomorrow.
I hope you'll come.
No point really.
It would make me happy. Being around you makes me happy.
So don't marry him.
I only have a few years to marry someone with good genes and financial stability so I can have children and the family I've always wanted. One day I'll be old and wrinkly and ugly.
No you won't. Not to me you won't. I love you. If you really love someone it doesn't matter what they look like.
What do you mean?
Do me this favor. Just one favor. Don't accept everything you see. Don't just do something because that's the way it's done.
You're confusing me.
Think about what you want. Find out what you really want. And if it's not the same as what I want, well then I'll know that and I'll never darken your doorstep again.  I want you. What do you want?
I'm going to go.
Please don't. Will you just stay a little bit longer? I don't want to be alone. Just sit with me.
 My invention.
We're gonna be late.
Makes sense people would start getting married at these places. I mean, who you marry decides who's mansion you're going to live in one day. It's a big decision.
Yeah.
It's time, dear.
Jennifer?
I don't feel all right.
What's wrong? Do you have food poisoning?
No. I don't think there's a word for what I have.
We are sitting here in this building today to share in the wedding of Rob and Jennifer. Two young, attractive people who have agreed that this union would be mutually beneficial and that their genetic match-up would most likely produce favorable offspring and a life of financial stability and physical security.
Rob, do you promise to stay with Jennifer for as long as you want to and to protect your offspring for as long as you can?
I do.
Jennifer, do you promise to stay with Rob for as long as you want to and to protect your offspring for as long as you can?
Jennifer?
 I'm sorry, hold on one second.  Rob, can I ask you something?
 Sure. But what are you doing?
What color are my eyes?
I dunno...  Oh, they're brown.
No Rob, they're blue.
Oh, look at that. So they are. You've got pretty blue eyes.
Can we get on with this?
Jennifer, do you promise to stay with Rob for as long as you want to and to protect your offspring for as long as you can?
I do.
Before I pronounce these two man and wife, is there anyone here who thinks they'd offer either of these people a better genetic match-up?
Me.
Oh come on. Look at you. You can't be better.
Yes I can. You've got shmuck genes.
Schmuck genes? What's that?
And I love her.  Jennifer, don't marry him. Is this what you really want?
I don't know.  Yes?
All right. I'm done. Goodbye.
Are we married yet? Because I've got plans this afternoon.
 Hold on a minute!
What?
I'm confused.
So am I.
Is any of it... the things you said... are they... I can't think of the word.  Is there a Man in the Sky?
No.
Why'd you say there was?
Because I couldn't cope with the look on my grandmother's face.
But how could you say something that... wasn't.
I'm not sure. I just did it.
And what did you mean that I could grow old and ugly and still be beautiful to you?
I mean just that. You'll always be beautiful to me.
But what if my looks...
It doesn't matter.
I feel funny.
Me too.  Everything is so hard. Nothing is easy anymore.
I know what I want.
What?
I want short, fat kids with little snub noses.
 Easy! That's an easy one.
Does anyone else know about your invention?
No. But I'm sure it won't be long.
Should we tell them right away?
I'm not sure. I don't think everyone will understand.
What's going on out here? Everyone's just sitting in there. Are we gonna finish this wedding?
Yes.
Praise the Man in the Sky.
The world's last moment of honesty. A monumental occasion in the history of mankind.  That lowly writer who stumbled upon the ability to lie went on to become one of the most important men of his age, married to one of the most beautiful women of his time, and passed on the lying gene to generations to come.  A world without honesty is a world with dreams. A world with pretense. A world with fiction. A world with flattery. And most importantly, a world with true love. Put simply, a world very much like our own.
