EMPTY_LINE
5/22/07
It's that terrorist, Mandela. They let him out.  Remember this day, boys. It's the day our country went to the dogs.
- the khaki-clad AWB  attack on the World Trade Center - the lifting of economic sanctions and cultural boycotts - the lifting of the international ban on the Springbok rugby team and immediate Test match losses to New Zealand and Australia. - popular black leader Chris Hani's assassination by white RIGHT WINGERS - black retaliation - Mandela's frantic intervention to keep the country from going up in flames - the election itself, with those incredible images of thousands and thousands of people, black and white, lining up patiently, some to vote for the first time in their lives - the African National Congress victory - Mandela's inauguration as President, where he delivers the FAMOUS WORDS:
Here he comes. Like clockwork.
It makes him such an easy target.
 I see you, father.
 Morning boys. How are you?
We're sharp, Madiba.
Good ... good. And how's your mother doing, Linga?
She's much better, thank you.
Good.
What does it say?
It says, "He can win an election, but can he run a country?"
 Not even one day on the job and they're after you.
It's a legitimate question.
Today marks the beginning of a new era in South Africa --
-- as President Mandela takes office in Pretoria, facing issues that range from economic stagnation and unemployment to rising crime --
-- while at the same time balancing black aspirations --
-- with white fears.
 I never thought I'd see the day.
I feel sorry for you, son. You've got your whole life ahead of you. What's it going to be like now?
Don't be so gloomy.  I added vitamins -- there's a horrible flu bug going around. Tell Nerine when you get home.
Thanks, ma.
I'm telling you, Francois -- look at Angola, look at Mozambique. Look at Zimbabwe. We're next. They're going to take our jobs and drive us into the sea. Just you wait.
 After you, Mr. President.
Good morning everybody.
EMPTY_LINE
Barbara, good morning. You've had your hair done. I like it.
Thank you, Madiba. We need to talk about your cabinet appointments and ministers.
Give me one moment, please.
BARBARA --
-- please assemble the staff for me. Whoever has not already left.
Right now? All of them?
Yes, please.
Here he comes.
He wants the satisfaction of firing us himself.
I'd like you to stay out here, please.
But, Madiba ...
I cannot talk to them if I'm hiding behind men with guns.
 Gooie more almal.
 Does he think greeting us in Afrikaans makes this any sweeter?
Some of you may know who I am.
Good morning ... how are you ... thank you for coming at such short notice ... etc.
I couldn't help noticing the empty offices as I came to work today. And all the packing boxes.
Now, of course, if you want to leave, that is your right. And if you feel in your heart that you cannot work with your new government, then it is better that you do leave, right away.
But if you are packing up because you fear that your language, or the color of your skin, or who you served previously, disqualifies you from working here now, I am here to tell you, have no such fear.  Wat is verby is verby. What's past is past. We look to the future, now.
We need your help. We want your help. If you would like to stay, you will be doing your country a great service.
I ask only that you do your jobs to the best of your abilities, and with good hearts. I promise to do the same.  If we can manage that, our country will be a shining light in the world.
He wants to win them over, one damn boer at a time.
Molo, sister.
 It's still morning?
When you get a chance, can we see the schedule for the month? We need to plan security.
 Office of the President, good morning.
We need more men.
Did you talk to Barbara about it?
Yesterday.
That's Jessie, with the schedule.  Come in, beautiful.
What is this?
Mr. Jason Tshabalala?
That's me. Am I under arrest?
Captain Van Eck and team reporting for duty, sir.
What duty?
We're the Presidential bodyguard. We've been assigned to this office. (holding out a sheet of PAPER) Here are our orders.
 You're Special Branch, right?
You'll see that they've been signed.
I don't care if they're signed or --
Wait here.
Sorry to disturb you.
You look agitated, Jason.
That's because I've got four Special Branch cops in my office.
What have you done?
Me? Nothing. They say they're the Presidential bodyguard. They have orders.  Signed by you.
Yes. They've had special training, those boys -- with the SAS. And lots of experience. They protected De Klerk.
Yes, but --
You asked for more men, didn't you?
Yes, but --
In public, when people see me, they see my bodyguards, too. You represent me, directly. The rainbow nation starts here.  Reconciliation starts here.
Reconciliation? Madiba, not long ago they tried to kill us! Maybe even these four guys. They tried and, often, they succeeded!
Yes, I know.  Forgiveness starts here, too.
Forgiveness liberates the soul. It removes fear. That is why it is such a powerful weapon, Jason. 
 Please try it.
Yes, Madiba. Sorry to disturb you.
You ask a lot.
Only what is necessary.
Two copies of the schedule.
Thank you, Jessie!
Can we get rid of these guys, now?
This is his schedule for the next month. Let's look it over for duty assignments.
Right.
What?
Jason, I have to talk to you. Outside.
How can we trust them? JASON We can't.  This is what Madiba wants, okay.
Are there any special orders or conditions?
No. Yes. Madiba gets upset if you don't smile when you push people out of the way.
Seriously?
Yes, seriously. It's the new South Africa.
Madiba?
The President's clan name. It's what we call him.
We'll call him Mr. President.
Let's get through this.
How's he going to do all this? When does he take a break?
He says he rested enough in prison.
Here's a headache.
What?
A rugby match at Loftus Versfeld. British Lions against the Springboks.
It's going to be a headache for the Lions, that's for sure. We're going to donder them.
I don't care about the game. I care that the President'll be so exposed.
To thousands of drunken --
 -- sports fans?
Yes. Sports fans.
Who didn't vote for him. Who probably hate him. Who came out of the womb with guns in their hands.
 I want your eyes on the crowd at all times. We're staying in the middle of the field. He's going to walk out, shake hands, walk back. Nothing else. Got it?
Here we go.
Good luck, captain.
 Thank you, sir.
 Stay with him.
Stop him.
Stay with him.
Thank you for honoring our new flag!
We're delaying the rugby, Madiba.
Oh, yes, of course.
Why didn't you stop him?
Next time, you try.
Does he do that sort of thing all the time?
Ask my ulcer.  Good thing that was just an orange.
And good thing he never saw it.
Oh, he saw it. He sees everything.  I hate rugby.
Concentrate, dammit! Focus! We can beat these guys if we play our game, not theirs!
Shall we work while we watch? We have lots of promises to keep.
Yes, we do.
It's not too late, if the boys can just pick up their game.
If they don't, heads will roll. This is unacceptable.  Come on you bloody bastards!
Where do you want go first, for foreign investment?
Where the money is. America, England, Saudi Arabia.
Do you see all the old apartheid flags? It's a disgrace.
It's also a constitutional right.
Along with the apartheid anthem. I know. But it's time people moved on.
Look at that. The whites are cheering for the Springboks, the blacks are cheering for the Lions.
We did that on the island, you know. We supported anyone but the `boks. It really irritated the warders.
Of course it did.
How long until the World Cup?
About a year.
Plenty of time for improvement.
Mr. President -- I wouldn't get my hopes up. We're a damn disgrace.
I want to go to India and Indonesia, too.
Very badly.
Why?
Francois Pienaar's team came to Loftus Versfeld stadium this afternoon, unprepared and arrogant.
They left 80 minutes later with their tails between their legs, like whipped mongrels.  And I, for one, am glad. Not because we lost, but because there's now no way to disguise the fact that we are completely and utterly unprepared to reenter the world of top-notch international rugby.
The Rugby World Cup is now less than a year away, and I, for one, am relieved that we are the host nation, and therefore qualify automatically for the tournament. Because I'm not sure we would get in on merit alone.
Who gets the axe? Someone has to.
Pienaar's team played without discipline, without strategy and without courage.
He's trying to get them to drop me.
He's just bitter because the Springboks were boycotted when he played.
Maybe, but people listen to what he says.
They brought shame upon our nation, and I, for one, can say without fear of contradiction, that today, these fifteen so-called men did not deserve to wear the hallowed green and gold.
Here's your muti. I warmed the milk tonight.
You're too good to me.
Your daughter called, to cancel her visit this weekend.
Did she say why?
No, she didn't.  She said to tell you she was sorry.
Do you need anything else tonight?
No, thank you. I'm going to bed. Good night.
Good night, Madiba. Sleep well.
No pushing now! There's enough for everybody!
God bless you.
You're a very lucky boy. It's a real Springbok practise jersey! It's a bit big, but it's warm and it'll last for ever!
It's yours, take it! Go on.
Why won't he take it?
If he wears it, the others will beat him up.
Because the Springboks are playing so badly?
No. Because, for them, the Springboks still represent apartheid.
... and now for the next item on our agenda.
The NSC executive proposes a full membership vote on the following motion ...
... that as a prominent symbol of the apartheid era, the colors, emblem and name of the Springboks be eliminated immediately ...
... and that all sports teams representing South Africa shall be known forthwith as the Proteas.
 We will submit this motion to a hand vote. 
In the event of a close count, we will go to a written ballot. (the moment he's been WAITING FOR) ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF ELIMINATING THE SPRINGBOKS, RAISE YOUR HANDS.
Both units to the cars, right now.
What do I tell the Japanese trade delegation?
I delegate that decision to you.
Do you want me to inform the VP?
No.
We should at least include the Minister of Sport.
No.
I strongly advise against doing this. Especially on your own. It ... it gives the impression of autocratic leadership.
You risk alienating your cabinet and your party.
Your advice is duly noted, Barbara.
Madiba ... the people want this. They hate the Springboks. They don't want to be represented by a team they cheered against all their lives.
Yes, I know. But in this instance the people are wrong. And it is my job as their elected leader to make them see that.
Can you tell the boys that Madiba wants to go to Eersterust, very fast.
You're risking your political capital. You're risking your future as our leader.
The day I am afraid to do that is the day I am no longer fit to lead.
At least risk it for something more important than rugby.
... and in concluding this historic conference ...
... brothers, sisters, comrades, we in the executive applaud your diligence and courage.
Brothers, sisters ... join us in our anthem.
 Nkosi Sikelel' iAfrica etc (God Bless Africa) --
Brothers, sisters, members of the choir -- we would only interrupt such beautiful music for something truly important. In this case, for someone truly important.  Please welcome President Mandela!
 Smile.
Brothers, sisters, comrades, I am here because I feel strongly that you made a decision today without sufficient information or foresight.
I am aware of your earlier vote. I am aware that it was unanimous.  Nonetheless, I propose that we restore the Springboks. Restore their name, their emblem and their colors, immediately.
Let me tell you why ...
... on Robben Island, in Pollsmoor Prison, my jailers were all Afrikaners.  For twenty seven years, I studied them. I learned their language, I read their history, I read their poetry. I had to know my enemy, in order to prevail against him.  And we prevailed, did we not? All of us here ... we prevailed.
Our enemy is no longer the Afrikaner. They are our fellow South Africans, our partners in democracy.
And they treasure Springbok rugby. If we take that away, we lose them. We prove that we are what they feared we would be.  We have to be better than that. 
We have to surprise them with compassion, with restraint, and generosity.
Yes, I know. All the things they denied us.
But this is not the time to enjoy a moment's petty revenge. This is the time to build our nation using every single brick available to us - - even if that brick comes clothed in green and gold.
 You elected me.  You elected me to be your leader. Let me lead you now.  Who is with me on this?
Who is with me?
Twelve votes. Twelve! MANDELA A luxury. All we needed was one more yes than no.
What if you hadn't got it?
Well, as you know, I am an obedient party member.
I'm sorry, Madiba, but we've got problems everywhere we look. Housing, food, jobs, crime, our currency. You can't keep interrupting affairs of state to placate a minority.
But, I must. This minority still controls the army, the police, and the economy. Without them, we cannot address the other problems.
So this rugby, it's just a political calculation?
It's a human calculation.  If we take away what they cherish -- the Springboks, their national anthem -- we just reinforce the cycle of fear between us.
I will do what I must to break this cycle. Or it will destroy us.
This beer tastes like kuk.
It's not the beer.
Take another.  Everybody take a beer.
A toast ...
... to the taste of defeat.
Drink it. Remember it. And promise yourself never to taste it again.
You're right. It tastes like kuk.
Here's the schedule for the overseas trip.
What did he just say?
I said --
He asked when we were supposed to sleep.
As well as other basic human functions.
Hey. If Madiba can do it, we can do it.
The millions of our people say thank you, and thank you again.
I have come here with a message. People of the Unites States of America: Open your markets to us. People of the United States of American: Come and invest in our country.
... and in London, President Mandela made quite an impression on the Queen --
-- as he concluded a gruelling trip TO--
In related news, it was announced that President Mandela will be visiting South Africa this week.
It's good to be home, sir.
I'm fine.
Travelling the world, begging for money, is very tiring.
This is for you.
 I see you, father.
Morning boys.
Morning, sir.
How is your family, Hendrick?
Top shape, sir. How about yours?
I have a very big family. 42 million people.
I don't think I want to walk today.
We never ask him about his family. HENDRICK But he asks about ours all the time.
Think about it, man. He's separated from his wife. His children ... how often do you see them here?  He's not a saint, okay. He's a man, with a man's problems -- and he doesn't need us reminding him about them.
Hello Barbara. I like that dress.
Thank you Madiba.  This is for you.
 What is it?
Your pay checks. You haven't been collecting them.
What's wrong?
This is terrible.
Madiba, it's what De Klerk got. Plus an increase for inflation.
Today, President Mandela announced that, in his opinion --
 -- his salary is too high.
Dead right. They're all overpaid.
He has therefore decided to donate a third of his monthly income to charity.
Give me the houses and cars they give him and I'll donate a third of my salary too.
 You would not. Not in a million years.
 Hallo, Pienaar.
 Hang on a moment, please.
President Mandela said that he wished to set an example to other leaders and cabinet ministers.
Fat chance. They're lining their pockets as fast as they can.
Must be his girlfriend, hey Nerine.
He knows I'd bloody kill him.
What? Who was it?
Told you. It was his girlfriend.
Shush!
I've been invited to tea.
Who with?
The President.
The President of SA Rugby? Count your fingers after he shakes your hand.
The President.
He wants me over for tea, week after next.
Mr. Francois -- you must tell Madiba that the bus service is very bad, and too expensive. He must please fix it.  Good night everybody.
Good night Eunice, thank you.
What the hell does he want with you?
Francois, relax. You've met him before.
I shook his hand on the rugby field, that's all.
You didn't even vote for him.
He's still the President.  He's had dinner with the Queen. With Presidents and movie stars. All I do is play rugby. What if I pull something stupid in front of him?
You won't. I'll pick you up right here.
See who's coming for tea?
My nephew wants me to get his autograph.
Who?
Francois Pienaar.
Who wants to escort him in?
I will.
No autographs.
 I know how to do my job, okay.
Who's this Pienaar?
You can't be serious? He's the captain of the Springboks.
I like soccer, myself.
Well, you know what they say about soccer -- it's gentleman's game played by hooligans. One the other hand, rugby is a hooligan's game played by --
Ja, ja, I've heard it before. It wasn't funny the first time.
Can I ask you a question, Lieutenant?
Ja, of course.
What's he like?
When I worked for the previous President, it was my job to be invisible.
This President ... he found out I like English toffee and brought me some back, from his visit to the Queen.
To him, nobody is invisible.
That's where you wait. One of his assistants will come for you.  There's a bathroom over there, if you need it.
Okay. Thanks.
What are our chances in the World Cup? I mean, for real.
We'll do our best. That, I can guarantee.
Well, he's not as big as he looks on TV.  And we don't stand a bloody chance in the World Cup.
Mr. Pienaar?
This way, please.
Go on in.
Francois, what an honor. I'm so excited.
Thank you for coming all this way to see me.
Yes, sir. No problem. Thank you for inviting me.
Tell me. How's your ankle?
My ankle?
I was told you'd hurt it. Has it healed?
The truth is, sir, you never play at a hundred percent, no matter what.
Yes ... yes. In sports, and in life. Come. Sit. Please.  Take this one. Looking into the light hurts my eyes.
Ah, Mrs. Brits --
-- you are a shining light in my day.
Yes sir.
Mrs. Brits, this is Francois Pienaar. He's the captain of the Springboks.
 Aangename kennis, Mevrou Brits.
Ek ook, Meneer.  Shall I pour, sir?
No thank you, I think I'd like to.
How do you take your tea, Francois?
Milk and sugar, please.
The English have given us many things, including rugby, but afternoon tea is one of the greatest.
Thank you, sir.
You have a very difficult job.
I do? I sell gas braais.
Captain of the Springboks. A very difficult job.
Not compared to yours, sir.
Ah, but then nobody is trying to tear my head off while I'm doing mine.
It is not so difficult to get people to do their best. And I imagine that anybody who plays for their country does their best, almost automatically.
Or they wouldn't be chosen in the first place.
Yes. But to get people to be better than that? 
Better than they think they can be? Now, that is difficult, I find.
Yes sir, it is.
How do we do that? By example? To an extent. But there is more to it than that ... (searching for the right WORD) ... inspiration, perhaps.
How do we inspire ourselves to greatness, when nothing less will do? How do we inspire everyone around us?  Sometimes, I think, by using the work of others.
On Robben Island, when things were very hard, I found inspiration in a poem.
A poem?
A Victorian poem. Just words. But they helped me to stand when all I wanted was to lie down --  But you didn't come all this way to hear an old man talk about things that make no sense.
No! They make a lot of sense, sir.  On the day of a big match, say a test, in the bus on the way to the stadium, nobody talks.
Yes ... yes. Everybody is preparing.
When I think we're ready, I have the bus driver put on a song I've chosen; a theme song. One we all know. We listen together and ... it helps.
Yes! I remember when I was a guest at the 1992 Olympic Games in Barcelona. The whole stadium welcomed me with a song.  At the time the future -- our future -- seemed very bleak. But to hear that song, in voices from all over our planet ... it made me very proud to be South African. It helped me to come home and do better. It allowed me to expect more of myself.
May I ask what the song was, sir?
Well, it was Nkosi Sikelel' iAfrika. A very inspiring song.
We need inspiration, Francois.
Because, in order to build our nation, we all need to exceed our own expectations.
Yes, sir. We probably do.
So ...?
Hm?
What's he like?
He's ...  ... he's not like anyone I've ever met before.
Well? What did he want?
Ag, come on Francois. It's like talking to a bloody brick wall. What did he want?
I think ...  I think he wants us to win the World Cup.
Excuse me.
What do you think?
It doesn't matter what I think.
Yes, it does.
 Okay. I think he looks like one of the policemen who forced us out of our house when you were in jail. I don't like seeing you shake his hand. And I'm not the only one.
You criticize without understanding. You seek only to address your own feelings. This is selfish thinking. It does not serve the nation.
Wait. Please. I --
Will you give this to your mother.
What is it?
A bracelet.
Just throw it away.
I don't have the right to. It's not mine.
If she left it here, she meant to throw it away.
Mrs. Pienaar said you were finished with the paper.
Ja. Of course.
The Ivory Coast qualified. This is wonderful.
According to the experts, you and I are still supposed to be in jail.
Again!
A billion people watching us! (wheels turning in his HEAD) Yes ... yes. This is a great opportunity.
I reckon you've knocked the stuffing out of them today.
I haven't even begun.  We may not be the most talented team in the world -- but we're going to be the fittest.
And back! The squad can't believe their ears. No one moves. Except Pienaar.
Come on boys, let's show him.
Shit, what's Pienaar been eating?
 Please call the head of South African rugby for me.
Afternoon men. It's good to see you working so hard. I have a short announcement.  As part of the PR buildup to the World Cup, you will be conducting coaching clinics in townships all over the country.
I know you have plenty on your plates already -- but this is a request that comes from the top. (looking at Pienaar, POINTEDLY) The very top.
This is complete crap.
Are we some kind of circus act now?
We don't have time for kuk like this.
They expect us to play our best, to give our bloody all, then they add to our bloody workload ...
What do you think about this, Chester?
I try not to think. It interferes with my rugby.
See! Now there's a rugby player. Talk to them Francois.
Make them see that this is a waste of time we don't have.
I'm not going to talk to them.
Why not?
Whether we like it or not, we're more than just a rugby team. We're ... we're ambassadors inside our own country. And we might as well get used to it.
Is this you speaking, or Mandela?
You know me better than that.  Times change. We need to change, too.
We're looking at the remains of the Federal Building in Oklahoma City, America, which was destroyed today in a massive explosion.
No one has claimed responsibility yet, but authorities say that the timing and target mark this as the work of white, right-wing fanatics. An act of revenge for the FBI killings in Waco, Texas.
The explosive, a truck bomb, was apparently a simple mixture of commonly available industrial and agricultural materials.
 That's all we need. 
A homemade explosive from materials every boer already has.
So far, the official death toll stands at over a 100 people, which includes at least 12 children from a day care center in the Federal building.
Please call President Clinton for me. I wish to offer him our condolences.
Do you see why forgiveness is essential, Jason?  Revenge only begets revenge.
Shit, I'm glad I don't live here.
What the hell are they doing?
Don't forget, we've got TV cameras on us at all times.
 What a bloody joke.
Okay Chester -- I reckon you're up.
 What am I supposed to do?
What you do best.
WHO WANTS TO PLAY RUGBY? A roar. They all do.
Let rip.
Let's do our best.
Go get them!
Who here knows the first rule of rugby?
Me!
What is it?
Only hit the other players when the ref isn't looking!
No. The first rule of rugby is you can only pass the ball backwards or sideways.
- If you drop the ball, or pass it forwards, you scrum for possession. - This is a scrum. - You kick forwards. 
If you kick it out of bounds, you throw it back in to a lineout. - This is a lineout. - You score in four ways: a try, when you dot the ball down behind the try line. That's five points. - Another two points when you convert the try by kicking the ball through the uprights. - Three points for a penalty kick. - Three points for a drop kick. - Have you got all that?
No!
Agh, bugger it, let's just run and pass. Whoever drops the ball does pushups!
Okay. Who wants to scrum against me?
Mr. Minister, please forgive me. This sounds excellent, and we will return to it, but if you'll indulge me for just one minute --
You see, that picture is worth any number of speeches.
Tell me something -- how does this help them win rugby matches?
This is Boland Botha coming to you live from Cape Town airport --
-- where the Springbok flight has just landed.
The green and gold have one week to put the finishing touches to their gruelling training program --
-- and I, for one, have to admit to being cautiously excited.
 I say cautiously, because in my humble opinion --
-- this team has been over-trained on the field, and over-committed off it.
Which makes beating a powerhouse Australian side in the Cup opener next week a tall order, especially since this is an inexperienced team with a history of coming up short in big matches. This is Boland BOTHA --
Around the world -- objectively -- what are they saying about our chances against Australia?
So it is very important that we beat Australia.  Thank you.
The Cabinet Ministers are here to brief you on the trip to Taiwan.
I'll be right out.
One week, boys.
We need snipers on top of the stadium and these surrounding buildings.
Not a problem.
We want these two approaches completely sanitized.
Two approaches? JASON We're not going to decide which way we bring him in until the very last moment.  We need uniforms, plain clothes, sharp-shooters ...
And sniffer dogs.
Yes. No truck bombs, no Oklahoma City.
We've got an army unit on standby at Silvermine, if you need more men.
We're not taking any chances, okay. The President's going to be very exposed.  Much too exposed.
Barbara, I have been studying.
For the summit in Taiwan? Good.
No. Not exactly.
Test me.
They look like thugs.
Block out the names. See if I can recognize them.
Andre Joubert.  
Gavin Johnson.  Did I get them right?
Yes, Madiba.
 This is how I used to study in law school.  Unfortunately, Chester is far too easy to identify. But that will change. It must.
Players-only meeting in the team room after dinner.
What's this? Homework?
Sort of.
Cappie? What's this?
We need to learn it. We can't just mouth the words anymore.
Nobody cares, as long as we win matches.
They do care.
It's their song, not ours.
It's a terrorist song.
They used to arrest you for singing it.
And now it's one of our anthems.
Cap. You know I leave my guts on the field for you, and you know I'd follow you into a fight anywhere, any time. But this ...
... I can't even read it. I definitely can't pronounce the words.
Okay, boys. It's optional. Take it if you want to.
It means "God Bless Africa".  Which you have to admit, we could use.
Tell us, Mr. President, have you always been a rugby fan?
People do not realize that I once played rugby myself, when I was a student at Fort Hare. It is a very rough game. Almost as rough as politics.
How do you think the Springboks will do?
I think they will do very well. Their level of commitment is tremendous.
Now, it's been said that you used to support any team who played against the Springboks.
Obviously, that is no longer true. I am one hundred percent behind our boys.
After all, if I cannot change when circumstances demand it, how can I ask others to?
 We're going to land you on top of that building. We'll own the road between it and the stadium.
Francois, gentlemen -- forgive me for interrupting your work the day before such an important match ...  ... I just wanted to wish you good luck, in person.
And sometimes, very seldom, as President, I am allowed to do what I want.
 Mr. President, this is --
I know who this is.  Good luck, Andre. (shaking hands with all of THEM) Good luck Brendan, we're behind you all. Japie -- etc
Did you ever imagine this?
How could I?
But where is Chester?
He's injured, sir. His hamstring. We're trying to keep it quiet.
Is he out for the whole tournament?
With hamstrings, who knows?  We'll miss him.
The whole country will miss him.
Mr. President, sir --
Yes, Hennie.
-- this is for you. From us.
I am honored. Truly honored.
Good luck gentlemen. Your country supports you, completely.
Francois, walk with me.
I have something for you.
This helped me, many times. Perhaps it will help you, too.
Enough fun and games! We've still got work to do.
It's time for bed.
I think I'll stay up a little longer. The country is excited tonight.
You need to sleep. The doctor said.
The doctor has no sense of occasion.
There's nothing more we can do. The game plan's good. It's just a matter of the boys executing it tomorrow.
That's Pienaar's job. It's in his hands, now.
You know the best thing about you being the captain?
Uh ... the honor?
You don't have to share a room.
 Francois, come on. It's been weeks.
Uh uh. I need to be angry for tomorrow.
What's this?
A poem. From the President.
How does a poem help you play rugby?
The same way your visit does.  Inspiration.
What happened?
They scored.
What happened?
We scored.
They scored again.
We scored?
Ja. We're tied.
We're up by three.
They're ahead?
By four.
What does that mean?
We're only ahead by one.
We're ahead by four.
By seven.
By fourteen.
What happened?
We won!
We did?
You must be very pleased!
What man would not be pleased to be dancing with a beautiful woman like you?
Oh, Mr. President, you're exaggerating.
Indeed not. My father was a Xhosa chief, and therefore a polygamist. As you know, I am not.  But when I look at you ... I envy my father.
COACH'S RUN, NINE A.M. SHARP. PASS IT ON.
I hope you're not that slow next week.
What's going on?
A change of pace.
Who's bloody idea was this?
How do they bring the prisoners here?
On this boat.
 Imagine being able to see Cape Town so close by.
That would make it worse.
Can we see the President's cell?
Yes, of course. (leading them down past THE CELLS) We've done it up just the way it was.
 That means he was the 466th prisoner admitted in 1964.
 Out of the night that covers me, Black as the pit from pole to pole, I thank whatever gods may be For my unconquerable soul.
In the fell clutch of circumstance I have not winced nor cried aloud. Under the bludgeonings of chance My head is bloody, but unbow'd.
Beyond this place of wrath and tears Looms but the Horror of the shade, And yet the menace of the years Finds and shall find me unafraid.
It matters not how strait the gate, How charged with punishment the scroll, I am the master of my fate: I am the captain of my soul.
What happened?
It's simple exhaustion, but it'll lead to worse if it's not treated. He needs complete rest. And I don't mean just shifting the affairs of state to his bedroom. 
No phone calls, no visitors, no meetings. No politics.
You know him. He won't do that.
Then I'm going to put him into hospital. In isolation.
No. Not yet. I'll threaten him with hospital if he doesn't behave.
I'll cancel everything.
And I'll come back tonight to make sure he's not working.
 Don't cancel the trip to Taiwan. Not yet.
That's not good enough.
Let's hope the Samoans don't injure it again.
Madiba, this is --
I know who this is.
Welcome, and thank you for coming such a long way to see me.
Forty minute postponement. They're trying to clear the field.
Please excuse me for a moment.
This is very good ... very good! Who is our opponent?
The All Blacks play England tomorrow. Then, we'll know.
Please make sure that my schedule is clear for the entire match.
Yes, Madiba.
Let's do some work while we watch.
Just enjoy the rugby.
So, let me understand this. The All Blacks are killing a team that thrashed us last year?
Thanks for reminding me.
We're going to have to tackle better than the English, that's for sure.
We do.
Are those the judicial appointments for the Free State?
They'll keep until after the match.
Give it a spin when you pass it.  Like this.
How much does Lomu weigh?
About 120 kilos.
Shit, that's what I weigh.
Ja, but at least you're slow.
Come and look at this.
 You should've played rugby.
 They wouldn't let me carry my gun.
Do you still think I'm wasting my time with the rugby?
Barbara, can you please tell the Minister of Sport that I need a detailed briefing on the All Blacks.
This rugby, it's still strictly political?
Oh yes. Of course.
Don't lose them. I won't be able to get more.
Thanks, Francois.  Me, mom, Nerine -- wait, and the fourth? Who's it for?
145 points, in one match?
45 to 29. And it was not that close.  They seem unstoppable.
Their Maori war dance. Yes. It's very powerful.
How are we going to beat them?
No ... no. I don't want to break their focus for even a minute.  But, how do we win? ON LINGA: an idea occurs to him. A wild idea. He almost turns and blurts it out -- restrains himself.
It's not enough. Not now. Not so close.  This country is hungry for greatness.
How's the feeling in the dressing room?
Calm.
And Lomu? Are they talking about him?
Nobody gives us a bloody chance. I like that. It plays into their one weakness.
Their vanity.  They're already counting the win. But they want to win with style, the way they won all their other matches. They want to show the world how beautiful All Black rugby is.  I just want to show the bloody world how hard we tackle.
I wish tomorrow was already here.
 Come on, man. There's nothing more you can do today.
Have I ever mentioned to you that I hate rugby?
Once or twice, yes.
I just want to get him through tomorrow, safely. That's all.
We all do.
I brought one of your mom's protein shakes.
Thinking about tomorrow?
No, tomorrow's taken care of, one way or another.
I'm thinking about how you spend 30 years in a tiny cell, but come out ready to forgive the people who put you there.
Big day.
Be an even bigger day if we actually won.
Where is he?
Can a man not sleep in, when he has a big day ahead of him?
 Okay, thanks. Out.
He's sleeping in.
Or was.
I had an idea. About today.  It's a crazy idea.
Hey, don't worry, man. I already know you're crazy.
Morning, boys.
What is it?
Linga had an idea, sir.
Now you've done it.
The tickets sold out long before the team became so popular. So it's not exactly going to be the rainbow nation out there. That's the reality.  The President will greet the players before the match, he'll present the trophy after the match. He'll be exposed to 62,000 people, twice. He'll be on TV, live, all over the world. (expressing his deepest FEAR) All it takes is one idiot trying to make a statement, or one crazy fool who thinks he hears god speaking to him over the radio.
It's happened before!  But not today. Not on our watch. Not today.
 Face flag?
Bugger off!
We're at Ellis Park on this historic day, where, even this early, crowd excitement is at fever PITCH --
-- because their beloved green and gold have somehow managed to exceed all expectations.
But now they come up against a team that is unlike any other they have played.
These All Blacks are possibly one of the greatest international sides ever, with a player in Jonah Lomu who is as dominant as any this correspondent has ever seen.
To lose to them is no disgrace. To lose to them in the finals is, in fact, an honor.
I say this with absolutely no negativity. I simply want to save people from the heartbreak of unrealistic expectations.
So, take a reality check, sit back and share an afternoon with one billion fellow fans around the world. And as you do, feel a special pride in having made it this far. This is Boland Botha, signing off and sitting back at Ellis Park.
What's Mr. Francois doing now?
Final approach, Captain.
Let it be noted that I'm taking control of the aircraft.
I assume full responsibility for what happens from now on.
Duly noted.
 Do you see that jet, to the east?
 Did they get clearance for this?
 Not from us.
 Where is he?
 VIP BOX.
 Get him out of there. Now.
 No time.
Full throttle.
What the hell was that?
Breathe, boys. Breathe.
 The All Blacks won't like that.
Nelson ... Nelson ... Nelson ... NELSON ... NELSON ... NELSON ...
... NELSON ... NELSON ... NELSON ... etc.
I'm so glad you're here.
DO THAT AGAIN!
Hello, Jonah.
NKOSI --
-- SIKELEL' IAFRIKA etc ...
 Perhaps we should make a small wager?
I was thinking more along the lines of a case of wine.
What happens now?
Extra time. Twenty minutes.
I don't think I can take it.
Who's the fittest team on this field?
Keep it here. Run it forward.
How long before the end?
Francois ... a few words ...
... great game, but I don't think you could've done it without the amazing support of these 63,000 South Africans --
 We didn't have the support of 63,000 South Africans today. We had the support of 42 million South Africans.
They're waiting for you over there.
Francois, I want to thank you most sincerely for what you have done to our country.
Mr. President, I want to thank you for what you have done.
 This route's too crowded. We're changing to route B.
 Change to route C.
Tell Jason it's all right. There's no hurry.
 Madiba says no need to hurry.
