Lincoln Six-Echo... Options are dried fruit, oatmeal or anything in bran.
What? No bacon?
You got a sodium flag, pal - now what's it going to be?
Whatever.
Lincoln ! Over here!
Hello , stranger.
What? You don't recognize me?
It's just an expression, that's all.
You and your expressions, Lincoln. Now sit down and ask me where I've been.
 Okay, Ester. Where have you been?
At the medical center. Just for tests but they had me on liquid nutrition. 
Exciting.
That's not the exciting part. I got my first trimester report: happy, healthy and contaminant-free... Both of us.
Us?
My baby... It's in perfect condition. I just hope I can keep it that way. I still have six months to delivery.
Then you leave all this behind, huh?
Why? Will you miss me?
I'll miss your coffee. C'mon, I already burned up my quota.
Okay. But this is the last time.
What is it?
Good morning. To everyone here and everyone watching on etherscreen, welcome to the community address. Today I'm coming to you from Sector Four. For those of you here with sugar quotas, let me recommend the french toast. I just tried some and it's excellent, really. But I know what everyone's hungry for s o let's move on to the lottery. As always the draw will be made from our host sector. So tell me, Sector Four - is everyone ready for The Daily Spin?
Let The Spin begin.
Starkweather Two-Delta! Step up!
Well , Starkweather, if you're watching on etherscreen - your time has come, my friend! You're moving out to The Island!  And the rest of you, never lose hope; what do we know about The Daily Spin?
An d tomorrow it could be you...
Don't worry. Your time will come.
That's easy for you to say. Your time's guaranteed. All you have is six months.
Six months of mood swings, sore back and swollen feet. Want to trade places?
 Give me some more of your coffee.
A stim unit says it hits the wall.
Okay . But I get to set the can.
Hurry it up. The shuttle's coming.
Hudson Four-Alpha; profile reviewed. Match to vacancy; 171, Sector 5. Request clearance to populate.
Hey, you want to know something?
You know that guy who won the Spin in your sector? Starkweather?
No.
I had a bout with him last week. Guess how long he's been here? Six months.
Six months?
You don't believe me - look it up.
Census File: Two-Delta, Starkweather.
What do you say now? Still think The Spin's rigged for the long haulers?
He got lucky, that's all.
And don't you wish it was you... out there on The Island... nature's own clean air zone... no screening, no quotas... unlimited pleasure...
Shut up, Jonesy.
Why don't you make me? In the ring.
You're out of my weight-class.
Not anymore. They just got the new program in - multi-weight balancing.
I'll think about it.
C'mon, champ. A stim unit says you won't last three rounds.
Whoooooo!
Sure you input the right weight class?
You're just too slow, Jonesy.
You're faster `cause you're lighter. Programmers... they always miss something.
Hey, you put up, now pay up.
Jones Three-Bravo; you got five units. Your friend, he's got an alcohol flag.
So make it a beer and a Vita Cola.
You know, you're going to get yourself contaminated one of these days.
Shut up, Jonesy.
So, you up for a rematch tomorrow?
I can't. I got an interact.
With who? That blonde again?
Hey, it's an authorized interaction. We're on the same meditation program.
You want to get flagged for proximity?
No law against friendship, Jonesy.
Quick . . . Give me that beer back.
What's going on, officer?
Census check.
What happened? You lost count?
I hope nobody's drinking off-quota.
Vita Cola all the way, officer.
Accept.
Lincoln? I missed you at breakfast.
I guess I overslept.
I just wanted to check we're still on for tonight. The interact.
Right. I'll be there.
I'll see you then. Enjoy your day!
Just juice today. I'm late for work.
Too bad. I gotta serve the full meal.
No, no, no. Use your own sugar quota.
C'mon, Kleinwort...
So what's up with the Censors, huh?
They're conducting a census check. Or don't you watch the bulletins?
I know what it is. I've just never seen them out in this sector before.
Probably just tracking a glitch. A bad scanner or maybe an userware defect.  Ethercuffs. They get damaged, you get a false read. Sometimes even a dropout.
What are you saying? They lost someone?
Someone just isn't showing up where they should be. What do you care?
Census File: Two-Delta, Starkweather. - - T W O - D E L T A , STARKWEATHER: 102, SECTOR 4 - DAY: -- / HR: --
Accomodation Status : 102, Sector 4.
Hey , Jonesy. Remember the guy who won The Spin yesterday? His apartment's still showing as occupied.
So?
So you get 24 hours to move out.
Maybe the system didn't update yet.
No. It updates on the hour. If he's gone it should be showing a vacancy.
 What? You think he's still here? The guy wins a place on The Island and you think he just decided not to go?
I don't know. He wasn't there to step up. And now there's a census check... JONES And now nothing. It's probably the programmers messing up.
Maybe.
A stim unit says I can prove it. Cross reference with sanitation.
Sanitation Status: 102, Sector Four.
See ? Standard procedure. They got to sweep it for the next occupant.
If you gentlemen aren't busy... Perhaps I could get an update on sector six?
Still in the electrical phase, sir.
Well the guys upstairs are griping about the backlog. So go over there and light some fires, will you?
 I'll take care of it.
Aren't you forgetting something?  Or do you want to get contaminated?
Sorry, chief. I can't let you get any closer. We got live wires over there.
What's that you said?
I said I can't hear you. M c C o r d c h u c k l e s at the irony.
He y , you get yourself contaminated, don't come pointing the finger at me. LINCOLN How are you doing, Mac?
You know how it is. `Gets to the end of shift, `crew starts draggin t h e i r feet.
We l l the guys upstairs are griping about the backlog. They want to know when you'll be ready for move in. MCCORD I guess if we bust our backs, we could be out of here by the end of the week.
I'll tell them two weeks.
Thanks , chief. I appreciate that.
So . . . got any stuff on you today?
I t ' s too bad. MCCORD What do you mean?
T h a t your shift's almost over.
You mean, these things? Well, these things ain't good for you anyways.
The y taste good.
I like coming here. Talking. Most outsiders don't like to talk.
That's because we ain't supposed to. They got rules about fraternization.
What do you do when the shift's over?
M o r e of the same. They cycle us onto the disposal detail. Hump `n dump crew.
H u m p `n dump crew?
D e b r i s clearance. We hump the heavy stuff to a site on the outside. LINCOLN Is it as bad as they say out there?
The air... the containments.
Right.
But not everywhere. Not on The Island.
 I don't know too much about that. Lincoln eyes him narrowly. McCord p a u s e s , then tucks his lighter into the cigarette box and offers it with a palliative smile.
He y , take it from me, you got a sweet deal right here. So why worry, huh? Lincoln shrugs, accepting the gift with a slow exhale of smoke. We tilt up to follow the smoke plume, dissipating into the fans.
L a d i e s and gentlemen, my name is Lydia and on behalf of our staff, I'd like t o welcome you to The Sanger Institute.
Before we start the tour, we'll be serv- i n g r e f r e s h m e n t s in the visitor center and circulating our standard discretion agreements. I should add that today you are all very lucky because our CEO and founder, Dr. Henry Sanger, is with us and will be leading the tour personally.
M o r t a l i t y . We all know its face and yet w e look away, don't we? We deny that our l i v e s are ordained to suffering. That w e are all, inalterably, going to die.
I t takes courage to confront mortality, my friends. And I see it in each of y o u . My name is Dr. Henry Sanger and I'm here to reward your courage. L y d i a applauds. The tour group dutifully follows suit. Sanger whispers a question in Lydia's ear. She broadcasts her response-
T o d a y ' s group is from New Gaza Health Care. They're with the platinum plan.
N e w Gaza. Yes, very good oncology unit.
I t doesn't get any prettier, does it? But this is not a freakshow, my friends. This is a war museum. A history of our battles with mortality... and defeats. Take the stem cell, for instance. A bid to cultivate human parts for transplant - in rodents, primates, barnyard animals. It's enough to make your skin crawl. In some cases literally, giving rise to a new range of cross-species viruses. But that's how we learn. From our mistakes. The y turn a corner. Another hall of windows, portals onto tanks of amber fluid that might be formaldehyde. Suspended within are embryos, fetuses and infants. All human. All grotesquely mutated.
C a s e in point, the clone. Back in the beginning, the mapping of the human genome was declared a historic landmark- t o break the curse of heredity, to correct congenital defect... genetic engineering became the brave new world of medical science. A bright future that led to a dark age and much of the legislation we know today. But while the clone laws may have narrowed the field, science marches on. Only to hit the same wall over and over again - the enigma of growth, the alchemy that takes us from embryo to adult. A clone barely reaches infancy before its growth enzymes misfire, resulting in the kind of monstrosities - which are only effigies - you see here.
So what do we learn from our mistakes? That human parts cannot grow outside a human body. That human bodies cannot grow outside nature's grand design.
L e t ' s say one day you go to your doctor for a checkup. He discovers you have imminent renal failure and require a kidney transplant. What would you do?
E v e n if your brother's kidney is with- o u t defect, there's still a 38% chance of rejection. Or less if he's your twin.
But what if you did have a twin?
What if you had a genetic double who'd give you not just one of his kidneys, but both? In fact, any organ or body part you ever had cause to need?
I said the problem with a clone is it doesn't survive infancy. The solution is to find a different starting point. Why sow the seed when you can create the fruit? Or what we like to call... an "agnate".
An agnate is sequenced from a point on the cellular timeclock. I t is spawned post-maturate. It is `created' adult.
O f course, its brain is still vestigial s o for the first three years we keep it i n suspension. During which time we use d a t a impression to supply a template f o r functionality - a process we call " f o u n d a t i o n " . After foundation we t r a n s f e r the agnate into "containment" w h e r e it enters the conditioning p r o c e s s . An ongoing series of quality c o n t r o l s designed to test and maintain i t s functionality. After a minimum of t w o years conditioning, the agnate b e c o m e s eligible for harvest...  An d you, my friend, get your new kidney.
The spare parts, as you put it, need to be tested for integrity. But as many of our clients leave it till late in life to take out the policy, we do offer the option for early harvest. Given the risks, however, a waiver is required.
An d what if the organ you   needed was a heart? Ask yourself, each     of you. If you had to put a price on     your life, your very survival - what     would it be?
I t ' s a question your insurance company has already answered. For them, the agnate obviates costly and ineffective treatment programs. Should you decide t o take out our policy, not only will they lower your existing premiums but they'll also cover the production cost.
That's entirely his decision. Our role is intermediary. We, as the insurance provider, guarantee the condition and availability of the agnate but all other rights are retained. In legal terms, the policy holder is defined as a "sponsor". The premiums, in effect, becoming sponsorship payments, maintaining the agnate until such time as harvest is required. At such time and where feasible, the sponsor has the option to extend sponsorship, retaining the agnate for secondary harvest or, shall we say, let the policy expire.
N o . Not as you and I know it, at least. The associations of life and death are no more applicable to an agnate than to a cow in a field. It exists in a state of limited consciousness - aware not of life but of functionality. Imbued with the knowledge to maintain its function but without the capacity to question it. And yet, in many ways, the end if the most humane part of the process. The agnate goes to harvest without any fore- b o d i n g and is painlessly returned to the sleep from whence it came. Eternal or otherwise. There is mortality for an agnate. Just utility and redundancy.
W h o does know my friend? Who among us knows our true purpose in life? S a n g e r ambles on, plunged in thought. Lydia picks up the slack-
This month we're offering a special rate for new sponsors. Including a 10% discount on the his-and-hers plan.
DR. SANGER? Would you like to close?
Yes . . . Now some of you may be thinking this commercial is staged. But these are not actors, these are past customers. Real p e o p l e enjoying the real f r u i t s of sponsorship. What we offer here at The Sanger Institute is not just health insurance but indemnity. What we offer is the chance of a new lease on life...
N o w Lydia will walk you through the rest of the tour and explain the various limitations and exclusions. But I do have time for a few questions. H a n d s are raised. A waspish-looking woman butts ahead of them-
You mean the maternity plan? No. N o t endemic infertility at least. As I said, the law prohibits genetic alteration so a defect endemic in a sponsor will also be present in their agnate. No, what the maternity plan provides is a way round the risks and rigors of childbirth. Under this plan, an agnate becomes eligible for pregnancy shortly after foundation. A simple donation of sperm from the father, then the agnate is fertilized and brings your baby to term.
An d then what? You get it in the mail?
F o r practical reasons, delivery is handled by your healthcare p r o v i d e r .
The same rule applies. You can continue your sponsorship. Or not. And in this case, there's a natural window for compliance as the agnate is routinely sedated after delivery. As to whether it wakes up from that sleep, like I said, the choice is yours...
You wanted to see me?
Yes . Please, take a seat. He taps     a button. The glass wall frosts over. It's unnerving but Lincoln      stays deadpan, moving the chair before taking a seat. Merrick      reviews the etherboard: Lincoln's headshot s p i n n i n g in 3D w i t h   a scroll of data. Then he looks up, forming a smile-
How ' s Lincoln Six-Echo today?
E v e r y t h i n g going okay?
I guess not.
Why do you say that? LINCOLN I f I'm here.
I'm not sure I deserve such a negative association. My job's only to see that you're happy. That everything's okay.
Right. MERRICK I t sounds like you don't believe me.
Why wouldn't I?
 I t ' s part of your makeup. To challenge things. To question what's around you.
Ah.
P e r h a p s you can utilize that facility by helping me solve a little puzzle. Lincoln shifts, feeling uneasy. Merrick consults the etherboard-
You're doing well in most areas - pro- f i c i e n t a t work, exercising rigorously, your last medical puts you in excellent condition. But screening's picked up some deviations. Trace levels, changes in your sleep pattern... I see you've also been burning up your quotas...
A r e you saying I'm contaminated?
No. LINCOLN The n what's the problem?
The r e are parameters, Lincoln. When someone starts straying from those parameters, we need to find out why.
Why?
Because you - not just you, all of our residents - are special. Because people like me don't get to go to The Island.
S o tell me, have you noticed any changes in yourself?
No. MERRICK What about your sleep pattern? You feel you've been sleeping properly?
L e t me put it another way, when you wake up, do you feel... disrupted?
Disrupted?
R e s t l e s s , disoriented, uneasy... LINCOLN I don't know.
They're all words in your vocabulary. I know you understand what they mean. Lincoln ' s jaw clenches, patronized. Merrick notes this, resumes-
Quotas . . . nutrition. Do you feel like you want more than you're given? LINCOLN I don't know.
Do you have any difficulty staying focused? At work, for instance?
H a v e you been experiencing feelings, sensations you don't quite understand?
I don't know.
Do you sometimes feel agitated for no apparent reason? Frustrated, angry...
That's it.
An g r y ? You feel angry?
Right.
When exactly do you feel angry?
Now... Lincoln leans forward as if to assert this. Merrick slowly nods like he's just revealed something. He taps the etherboard-
I'm going to order some tests at The Medical Center. In the meantime, I'd like you to stay away from stimulants - protein, sugar, caffeine...
I already burned up my quotas.
But I know you can get around them.
I'm asking you to cooperate. Not for my sake, Lincoln, but for your own.
Is that it?
The r e is one other thing. You have a female friend. "Ester". Your file shows you've been interacting regularly.
The r e ' s no law against friendship.
O f course not. We encourage interaction in the hope it'll be of mutual benefit. But given these deviations... let's just say proximity becomes an issue.
I know the rules of proximity.
The rules of proximity apply to sexual contact, Lincoln. In this case it goes deeper than that. Ester is entering h e r second trimester. A time of change and emotional confusion. Further inter- a c t i o n might be... unhealthy for you. Lincoln , patronized, looks away. This pill he won't swallow.
An d for Ester - well, she has only six months left to delivery. Then she'll move out to The Island and whatever ties she has here will be broken.
A s a friend, shouldn't you make her t r a n s i t i o n as painless as possible? Lincoln ' s deadpan falters. This one, a bitter pill, he swallows.
G o o d . Now I'm also going to refill your pleasure quota. It may help to settle you down a little.
Thank you. I feel much better now.
I'm not sure you do. But I think you'll do what's right, Lincoln. You may not trust me. But I trust you.
S o r r y I'm late.
I t ' s okay. I was waiting to tell you something anyway. Guess what?
M y baby - I felt it move. And it's the weirdest feeling too. I can't explain it. It's like being more... more h e r e . Lincoln returns a deadpan look. Ester's smile wavers a little.
I'm sorry. I'm all excited and we're supposed to be finding peace of mind.
I have to cancel, Ester.
S o I'll see you at breakfast tomorrow?
I don't think so. Ester ' s smile falls. Her eyes, reaching, trying to understand.
Did I do something wrong, Lincoln?
No.
K a r l . . . Welcome back.
I forgot how much I hate the air here.
J u s t a histamine reflex. Your system's readjusting to the sterile environment.
I t ' s the smell I hate. Empty.
Yes , well I cut short your leave for a reason. I take it you've been briefed?
 O n e of our lab rats is missing. W i t h a dour look, Merrick slots his etherboard i n t o a dock. A proxy resolves over the console, quarter scale, spinning in 3D; male, African American, bull neck. Data etches across thin air:
His name is Starkweather Two-Delta. He dropped off the ether two days ago. At first we thought it was a system error. Then we found this in a garbage chute.
D e l t a generation, huh?
That's right.
I t was a Delta the last time.
T h a t was entirely different. The product suffered a head injury. SCHEER What happened to this one?
We don't know. He just disappeared. SCHEER N o t easy to disappear. Unless he figured a way through the boundary.
He's a code two, Karl. A low functioner. SCHEER I f you ask me, it's a mistake giving them any functions at all.
The y don't function mentally, they don't function physically - you know that.
The n perhaps if you're going to breed lab rats, you should breed them tame. His look, albeit from a distance, throws a stone. Merrick hardens-
I f you bothered to read the clone laws, you'd realize we have no choice in the matter. The virtual humanity statutes accord them a set of freedoms. All we can do is prescribe the limits. And even those are subject to regulation. Scope of knowledge, range of activity, even their speech patterns. The law requires that what is of human origin be provided with human characteristics.
You mean, like fallibility? Merrick pauses. He's not going to take the bait.
The ether shows no attempts on the boundary. He's here, Karl. But for some reason, your men seem unable to find him. It's your job to contain the products. I'd like you to do it, okay?
A little sensitive, aren't we?
J u s t after Starkweather went missing, his sponsor placed an order. An order we can't fill. Damn right I'm sensitive.
A l r i g h t . How much time do I have?
J a m i l Starkweather . . . last week he sustained a hepatic trauma resulting in liver hemorrhage. In medical terms, we have maybe a few weeks. In legal terms, we're already o n borrowed time...  An d Karl?
I don't want a godawful m e s s like the l a s t time. Minimal damage. Understood?
R e v e r s e map. Crop to twelve hour segments. Then put up a sub-grid.
I want some bacon.
An d coffee. I want coffee. The clerk sighs and taps her screen. Turning to the chutes, she collects a foil covered bowl and a juice can and sets them on Lincoln's tray. Lincoln glances down at it, then back up-
This isn't what I asked for.
P u t that on my fucking r e c o r d .
Hello?
Please...
P l e a s e , you have to help me...
Y O U CAN'T LET THEM TAKE ME!
W h o are you? What's wrong with you?
S u b j e c t headed into North Quadrant. Two- m a n teams - we block him and force him to ground. If you have a shot, hook him but keep it above the belt. Management doesn't want us to "damage the product". The Censors roll their eyes knowingly. Scheer taps his headset.
You asshole! You hooked the wrong one! He crouches to examine Lincoln. Blood is blossoming from a wound on his shoulder, jutting from which is a projectile. The censor presses its base and it snaps loose of its unintended target.
J u s t a flesh wound. `Hit his head pretty hard. Possible concussion.  T h i n k you can walk, buddy?
You see this? It'll get you past the lockdown. You're to report to The Medical Center. You understand?
Good morning - this is a community bulletin... Following an incident in Sector Four earlier this morning, The Department of Sanitation is issuing an all-sector contamination warning...
The incident involved a resident found to be infected with a pathogen. While the risk is assessed, residents are advised to be aware of the symptoms. Should you experience aberrant levels of anxiety or witness it in others, immediately contact The Medical Center.
You want to tell me what's going on?
There's nothing going on, Karl.
I'm jaded. Not stupid.
What's your point?
I checked up. In the past year, three products have destabilized. All of them Deltas... and there's nothing going on?
You're jumping to conclusions.
Once I can overlook. Twice I can call coincidence. Three times I start giving a shit. Because if these products are defective...
Q u a l i t y control is not your concern.
S o it is a quality control issue?
That's not what I said.
He was in the subway tunnels for two days. In the dark, no food, no water. His fingers were scraped to the bone. He was trying to dig his way out. Now you try to explain to me why that is.
It's not an exact science - biogenesis. There's a degree of trial and error. If the agnate doesn't come together on the first pass, we have to abort and start over. It's like breaking inertia. The bioreactor, the growth medium - we just keep upping the levels till we achieve integration. At which stage the agnate is deemed physically stable. We rely on foundation to provide mental stability - matching the templates to their capacity but walling it in with parameters.  When signs of instability started to show up, it pointed to foundation. A hole in the wall, an oversight. But it was only happening in the later generat- ions . Which pointed back to biogenesis.
So there was a production defect.
Actually the opposite. We found out in the later generations, the levels were so high that when we broke inertia, the process kept going. Over-integrating. Specifically the neural system. It produced a condition called synesthesia.
Synesthesia...
A fusion of the senses, creating a component awareness. Sixth sense, s e c o n d sight, whatever you want to call it. Its emergence seems to be arbitrary. But it gives them experiences beyond their functional parameters. And ultimately... it destabilizes them. However, if we catch it early enough we can control it with re-conditioning.
You find this amusing?
Poetic.
Poetic?
This "agnate" took off just before his sponsor placed an order. Maybe he got the sense his days were numbered...
This stays between you and me, Karl. I trust I can rely on your cooperation?
Don't you mean my complicity?
 Remind me, why is it you were discharged from the military?
What's your point?
Learn to be a team player, Karl. Or you'll find yourself out of another job.
Nobody else would take it.
C h e c k in at the nurse's station. Up the corridor, left, then first right.
We have to run a few tests on her first. In the meantime, I'm going to give you something to help you relax, okay?
I'm incubating the baby for 24 hours prior to transport. But go ahead and contact the sponsor. Tell her she has a beautiful baby girl.
Let the record show the sponsor has signed Clause 22 of The Basic Sponsor- s h i p Agreement. Initiate compliance.
Starkweather ? Like the football player?
That's right. Starkweather.
Still showing in surgery. Sorry.
Honey, I got a bird on the pad and a storm moving in. How long's it gonna be?
The courier's here for pickup.
Well he's going to have to wait a while. It took forever to put this one under.
Doctor...
He's asking for an ETA. Said something about some kind of storm moving in.
For Christ's sake, is that my fault? Just find a way to stall him, okay?
What is it?
Subject's heart rate is spiking.
Not again. Boost the anaesthetic lev...
Yeah, no sweat, subject is secured.
Accept. The etherscreen resolves Lincoln's face, dishevelled, urgent-
Ester . . . I have to talk to you.
Lincoln ? Are you okay? I was worried.
What are you talking about?
The contamination warning. Somebody said you'd been exposed.
I want you to meet me as soon as you can. But you can't tell anyone.
Is it true? Were you contaminated?
You know where to come.
Jonesy. . .
Hey, champ. Are you alright? I heard there was a contamination scare.
I saw what happened to him.
What are you talking about?
Starkweather . . . What they did to him.
They cut him open, Jonesy. The y took him upstairs and they cut him open.
You caught that fucking p a t h o g e n , didn't you? You're contaminated.
J o n e s y , listen to me... But Jones just backs away. Lincoln makes to follow. Then stops dead in his tracks. Across the avenue, TWO CENSORS are on patrol and his best friend is now heading towards them. With a barren, torn grimace, Lincoln turns away and melts back into the crowd.
Please . . . don't come any closer. I don't want to get contaminated.
Ester, I'm not contaminated.
But they said...
I'm not contaminated!
Contaminants, pathogens... it's just what they tell us to keep us inside.
What do you mean?
I saw it. Why they keep us here. To use us. To take things from us.
You're not making sense.
Your baby... they're going to take your baby away... you understand?
M y baby? Why would they do that?
I don't know! But I saw it!
You're scaring me, Lincoln... I want to go back now.
You can't go back! Don't you get it? A VOICE N o b o d y move! Stay right where you are!
Don't hurt him!
Lincoln?
RUN!!!
Somebody get someone down here!
Ethercon! The elevator - override it! Do you read me? Bring it back down!
You're off the grid, sir. Give me a second. Can you tell me where you are?
Foundation Levels - all of them. Lock them down. Access only on my command.
Ester ! Come on!
Nothing , sir. No sign.
They can't have got past this level.
G e t me a bird!
A bird?! In this storm?!
The y got out! They got past the gate!
Ester ! We have to keep going!
Ester?
He n r y . . . There's been a breach.
W h e r e did all the green go? Lincoln looks deep into her troubled eyes. He answers gently-
The r e is no green. The windows in there... they were just pictures.
Ground team checking in.
Anything?
The storm pretty much covered their tracks. We're scanning for thermals b u t the hotter it gets, the harder it is to isolate a heat signature. I don't know, sir, it's a big desert out there.
I think I've found a path.
Good morning, gentlemen.
Bernard, this is Ellen Crowne from our legal department. Ellen, this is Bernard Merrick, director of products.
Thank you for coming out here.
Well when Henry called me I got the sense it wasn't for a social visit.
I understand there was an incident?
First, let me stress there's no way we could have anticipated what happened...
We're on the same team, Mr. Merrick. Just give me the facts down-and-dirty.
 We'v e lost two of our products. They escaped containment last night.
However, we have all available resources dedicated to the search.
How exactly did this happen?
We'r e still piecing it together.
Do we expect more products to escape?
Don't be so alarmist, Ellen.
I'm sorry, Henry, but you asked me here to assess our liabilities.
To answer your question, we condition our products with a deterrent. A fear of contamination. And thereby of the outer environment. So to escape, they first have to escape their conditioning.
Containment is one of the terms of our state health license. The fact it was compromised could put us in violation.
Bureaucracy.
Henry , it was a bloody battle getting our license through in the first place.
They're not going to pull our license, Ellen. We have a lot of friends on the Commission. Not to mention the goodwill we earned in DC when we took over the facility; a bunker complex for a bio- chemical war that never happened... We relieved them of a costly embarrassment.
I'm not sure we can rely on that.
Alright . What do you suggest?
First, I need you to level with me. What are our chances of finding them?
Well, in our favor, they've never been outside containment. They'd have no coordinates, no sense of direction.
I don't see how that's in our favor.
They're in the middle of the desert. Food and water become an issue.
So they might return to the trough?
Possibly.
And if not? How long could they last?
A few days maybe. But there is another variable. We maintain the products in a sterile environment. So basically their immune systems are untested. Toxins, pathogens, environmentals t h e rest of us overcome routinely, to them...
That's a little drastic. Some immune systems are more adaptive than others.
Let's take the drastic case. What then?
Well . . . the male, we could cover. Fast- track another generation before the sponsor ever needed access. The female comes under the maternity plan. She's three months pregnant. Even if we fast- tracked another generation, we couldn't fast-track the pregnancy. We'd miss the delivery date, the sponsor would wonder why and there would be... difficulties.
Even so, the worst may not happen.
We haven't even touched on the worst. If these products reach a populated area, there's the problem of scrutiny. DR. SANGER Ellen , we operate under State license on a lease from the Federal Government...
 We slipped through a loophole in the clone laws, Henry. And they only let u s through because they smelt money. And they gave us a government basement to cover their own a s s e s not ours. It's at the core of our license - why we screen potential sponsors, why we make them sign discretion agreements, why containment is such a critical factor - to limit the extent of public scrutiny.
E i t h e r way, it's unlikely they'd get that far. It's at least twenty miles to the next settlement. Right, Bernard?
Something to add, Mr. Merrick?
I just don't think we should under- estimate them. Especially the male.
And I don't think we should panic.
Gentlemen, whatever happens we need t o keep one thing clearly in mind. As far as the world at large goes, we are just another medical services company. Anything that alters that perception puts us at risk. And we cannot rely on the sanction of the law to protect us. Whenever and wherever and in whatever condition we recover these products, we have to stay beyond reproach. All it takes is one nudge to put us in the spotlight. Then you'll see how fast politicians can run for cover.
I n other words we need to find them o r else. That's very astute, Ellen.
Hello?
Can I help you?
My friend... she needs water.
Got stuck in that supercell, didya?
Supercellstorm , that's what they call it on the news anyways. I n my day, we just called `em "big ol' h o w l e r s " .
Yep, I heard it shut down some of the lodeways. Dust in the works, I guess. Where were you folks headed anyways?
Away.
A w a y ? You mean, like outta s t a t e ?
" O u t of state"...
N o w where's my manners gone? I'm Ozzie. Osmund r e a l l y . But folks call me Ozzie.
S o m e t i m e s I like to make a joke of it, my last name bein' D e e r . . . "O. Deer".
We l l now, looks like yer g i r l f r i e n d ' s made herself at home.
Yer girlfriend sure is pretty.
So what's with them tattoos, huh?
Hey , in the eye of the beholder, right? Now this place, this is beautiful to me. This is my place. I own it. `May not look like much but you'd be surprised. C'mon, lemme show you...
M o s t a t h i s heavy stuff's industrial scrap. Comes in from all over. Easy way round the recyclin' l a w s . Me, I sell it on to the boondock b o y s for meltdown. Other stuff, I pick up at the scrap markets. Fix it up, `fetches a price.
Fossil fuel transport. This piece o' junk's a collector's item. All that Age of the Wheel nostalgia, "elegant era of transport" bullshit. I find the parts, she's as good as solid gold.
Now this here's got a colorful history. Came in from this ol' g o v e r n m e n t bunker out in the valley. `Got shut down way back. Then this new outfit took over, stripped the place out. I guess they're doin' s o m e more remodelling cause I just had `em in again the other day...  Hump`n dump crew. Nice fellas.
You okay there?
I'm going to check on my friend.
Welcome to The Sanger Institute. If you know your party's extension, press...
What are you doing?
Nuthin . I wasn't doin nuthin .
I knew it... them clothes... them weird tattoos... I mean, I heard stories from those guys but I never...
N o t that I believe `em... buncha c r a z y stories... nuthin t o do with you...
W h a d d y a s a y we just forget about it, huh? How about I go getcha a beer?
What e v e r you want... Just take it... Whaddya w a n t . . . ? You want money...?
I t ' s all I got... Take it... just please... just don't hurt me...
" O u t of state" - how do I get there?
Bad news.
Which one of you is Diggs?
That's me, slick. This here's my partner Burdon. Don't mind him. He gets a little shy around strangers.
What happened to his arm?
`Pursuit last week. The guy took a swing at him with a fireaxe. Didn't stop Burdie though . `Took down that fucker with one arm, didn't you?
You don't look like bounty hunters.
Well we're on the job, see? And it kind of helps if you bleed in. You don't look like a bondman either.
I'm just an intermediary.
Now that's what people use when they don't want to get their hands dirty.
I was told you also handled civil bonds. Debt runners, data-thieves...
What we hunt depends on the bounty.
It's worth ten platinum. Unmarked.
What's the bond?
The parties I represent want to limit the specific details. But let's just say industrial secrets are involved.
Ten platinum. Must be big secrets.
Any good at keeping them?
Oh, me and Burdie, we're busy bees. We don't have time to file every report and we got real bad memories. But just so we understand each other, slick, we're talking about a bag job, right?
What's up with these tattoos? They look like fucking boondock types .
All I'm authorized to tell you is they have no records in this state. Also that they're not armed or dangerous.
How about we start with their names?
John and Jane Doe...
You're kidding me, right? No names?
The n - with all due respect - how the fuck d o you expect us to find them?
Because you won't have to look. They jumped an overnight shuttle. They'll be headed for the terminal, trying to get out of state. It's strictly a recovery job. For you, it should be childsplay.
The n why not do it yourself? Or is the dog ring just to impress the ladies?
The parties I represent want to stay at arm's length. And just so we understand each other that means no connection, no papertrail, no police interest...
Is that everything?
. . . no mistakes. They want these two brought in quickly and quietly and unharmed. Once you have them, you'll contact me for further instructions.
I don't know. What do you say, Burdie?
F r a n k Hofstetter! This is a bond recovery! Step away from the bar!
Don't bother. He'll drop by himself. B u r d o n pulls out some handcuffs and stands waiting. Diggs returns to the booth. Pouring out two tequila shots, he grins at Scheer -
N o w . . . where were we?
Tickets... Lincoln looks at the man in uniform, uncertain what he wants. The ticket collector shakes his head. These two look like deadbeats.
I t ' s going to be okay, Ester.
 Is it?
We just need to get out of state.
I told you to stay with me.
 I'm hungry.
O k a y . Okay...
 What are my options?
I asked the man how to get to the terminal. He said it's not far.
Now...
O u t of state.
We want to go out of state.
H o l o s e r v e . C h e a p e r than flesh and blood but nothing between the ears.
F i r s t time I used one of these, I asked her out on a date...
What do you want?
J u s t wanted to help, that's all. D i g g s shrugs, disarming, trying to win them over, nice and easy per the mandate. Then he notices the eyes of his male quarry. The pupils, black and dilating. Suddenly the male jerks away, like a shying horse, drawing the female with him. Diggs, unperturbed, makes no attempt to follow. Turning his back on them, he touches a device concealed in his ear canal, a miniature two-way radio-
You folks need a ride?
P r i v a t e cab. No state surcharge...
He y ! What the fuck are you doing, man? B a c k down the colonnade, THE HOBO is gesticulating to Burdon-
Shit!
Why the fuck d i d n ' t you go after them?!
Fuck!
We have to keep going.
P l e a s e . . . Please, I want to go back... She shrinks into the shadows, shaking her head. The hatchling wanting to return to the nest. Lincoln meets her eye, deeply-
T h o s e men - that's what they want too. Ester holds his gaze, chest heaving. Then looks back towards the alley mouth. Her fingers reach for her belly, clawing a little. Then her eyes lower, assimilating, reason reasserting its heavy grip. Lincoln senses her turmoil. His voice is soft but sturdy-
We have to keep going, Ester.
S u n n a v a b i t c h ! What the fuck d o we do now, huh? They could be anywhere...
We go back to the office and run `em.
A s what? John and Jane Doe?
We ask the guy.
Y e a h , let's tell him we couldn't hack it in kindergarten. See how long him and his ten platinum stick around.
I t was blue, right?
What?
The y were using a blue currency card.
H i there! I'm Tattletail! What e v e r you want to know, wherever you want to go, I got the answers! Let's look at the menu!
N o w let's make a selection!
 Transport... THE SNAKE O k a y ! Let me open that directory for you! I'll be with you in two shakes!
J a n e e n , where the fuck have you been?
O h , Jesus... Listen, I want you to punch into the currency stream for me. Sweep for blue card transactions.
I want serial numbers, batched a n d cross-referenced. Start from Union Station and work your way out...
I want to get out of state. Now.
O u t of state... T I C K E T CLERK J u s t wherever the wind takes you, huh?
Where's that?
N o . With her.
We got a positive on the serial number. Punch in and pull up the transactions. Start with the last hour and work back.
G r e a t . So I got to park my ass in front of a screen all night?
I t ' s a platinum bond, Janeen. We get this, I'll buy you a new ass, okay?
Lincoln , what is that? On your face?
A r e you alright?
M y throat... it feels dry...
O k a y . . . I'll get you some water.
Bond recovery... state license.
Play nice, little girl. Now you want to tell me where your boyfriend is?
Behind you.
What?
I'm a bond agent!
G o ahead. I'll look after her.
I can't... I can't breathe... my throat... it's so... dry...
I ' l l find you some water.
I t ' s going to be okay, Ester.
N o . . . no, it isn't...
I ' l l find you some water, okay?
An d then what, Lincoln?
I ' l l find another way. Out of state.
An d then what? What if they find us?
The n we'll keep going.
I can't... I can't run anymore...
We ' l l keep going till we get there.
The Island... You mean, The Island?
N o w I'm going to get some water. But I want you to stay here. It'll be safer.
Don't go yet. Stay with me, Lincoln. Stay with me for a little while.
What the fuck do you want now?
 Punch into the currency stream, close the net on downtown and keep the search active. The next time they use the card, I want to be right on top of them...
The man, the man up there. Who is he?
What planet `you been living on? That's the Juggernaut, brother.
The juggernaut...
Jamil "The Juggernaut" Starkweather - highest rushing total in the league. `Least till that injury blew out his gut. Now the doctors are saying he'll be back on his feet next season. Those fuckers sure can work miracles, huh?
Hi there! I'm Tattletail! What e v e r you want to know, wherever you want to go, I got the answers! Let's look at the menu!
N o w let's make a selection!
Residential...
Please give me the name.
Starkweather...
Okay! Let me find that listing for you! I'll be with you in two shakes!
Starkweather , Jamil... I'm sorry! This listing is blocked from the directory!
You want me to find another listing? Lincoln looks at the snake, flicking its tongue, coiling.
Y e a h , well we ain't in the market.
We ' r e chasing up a currency record from last night. These two ring a bell? D i g g s displays two digital slides. The owner pauses, suspicious.
Did he give you a name?
Did he say where he was going? G U N S H O P OWNER No.
What are you looking for?
I don't know. Something. Just wait there and make sure nobody's coming.
L o o k at this...
What the hell are you doing?
Oh, Jesus...
Who are you?
The y said... I'd never have to see you.
Who? Lincoln takes another step closer. Tom takes another step back.
The people...
What people?
Look, if you don't get out of here right now, I'm calling security...
Why are you here? What do you want?
I want to know...
One of the partners at my firm... he told me about it. Gave me a referral. I thought he was joking at first. I went out there, took the sales tour. Even before that I knew it wasn't a joke. There was this discretion agree- ment. I never saw anything like it and I've seen a lot. Ironclad... breathe a word and they've got you by the balls. I don't know... There's cancer in my family. Maybe it was just to keep up. All the partners were on the policy.
The policy?
Christ, you have no idea, do you?
About what?
I can't fucking do this...
What are you talking about?
Insurance. You're an insurance policy.
What is that?
Health insurance... medical...
What does that mean?
If I get sick... if part of me gets sick... I take a healthy part from you.
Why?
How do you expect me to answer that? It's just how it works, that's all.
What do you want? A fucking apology?
Why do I look like you?
Because you are me . . .
I don't understand.
Because they made you from my cells...
Made me?
 That's right. You were made. Cooked up in a centrifuge like a fucking boiled egg. Every thought running through your head, every word coming out of your mouth, all of it, manufactured, made...
You . . . you're the one who made me?
No.
Who made me?
I signed a contract. I can show you.
It's all right there. Who, why...
Look you've got what you wanted. Now why don't you just get out of here?
 There are men out there, looking for us. I want you to make them stop.
I can't...
I can't. Look, I'm a lawyer, I know how it works. The contract, everything, it's all laced with confidentiality clauses. It means they don't want this to get out. It means whatever I do, they're not going to stop. You understand?
Do you have transport?
Transport , yes... yes, parked downstairs... Bay 53... Take it...
And then you'll call security?
I'm not going to call security. I'm not going to call anybody, okay?
Look, maybe there's something... maybe there's a way to cancel the contract...
For Christ's sake! It's not my fault!
Lincoln ! No!
Auto...
O u t of state... West...
The man back there... who looked like you... does it mean I have someone too?
I just thought I should warn you. I have a sponsor holding. His name's Thomas Lincoln. He sounded... angry.
K a r l , there's been a complication.
He has marks on his face like us.
Is this... is this place The Island? Lincoln answers with a softly negating look. Ester's face slowly falls, the energy draining from her eyes. She lowers onto one of the mats and lies down, huddling. She looks up to him, wheezing-
I'm tired. Let me rest for a while.
You look a little lost, my friend.
Or did you come here for a reason?
I was looking for water.
Not the best place to look.
My transport... it stopped working.
I see. And where were you going?
Out of state...
What is this place?
It is a sacred place. My people come here to commune with their spirits.
Not easy to understand perhaps. For us, the spirit is like the shadow on the rock. Sometimes close, sometimes far away, sometimes the sky clouds and the shadow fades. We come here to ask our spirits to return to us. The man...  He speaks to The Grandfather from whom all spirits are born. The Great Spirit who binds every living thing. He has no name. But he is everywhere. In the sun and the moon, the wind and the rain...
Now he asks for the gift of vision that he may see through to the spirit shape of things. To find the spirits of the lost. To bring them into the light...
A r e you alright?
I feel better after I sleep.
The man out there... he said everything has a spirit... every living thing... but not...
I got thermals.
I'm looking for two bond runners. They ditched near here last night.
One man, one woman. Tattoos on the forehead...  Anyone's seen them, I got fifty green.  What the fuck are you? Deaf and dumb?
Somebody start talking.
I can make it.
Don't worry. The one we want goes the other way. He said it goes slower.
Up there in the rocks. Three o'clock. I'm not sure... it could be ambient.
Diggs! Get me outta here!
Help me! HELP MEEEEE!
Burdie...?
Ester! Stop! It's no use!
We have to... get to... The Island...
It's going too fast!
We have to... get to...
O h , God... Oh, my God...
I take it you've heard the news.
The bond agents. Yes. Unfortunate.
Unfortunate?  We're way past unfortunate, Henry.
I thought we'd covered ourselves.
The police won't connect the bond agents to us. But that's not the problem. It's the sponsor.
What are you talking about?
The male agnate tracked him down.
His name's Thomas Lincoln. It seems they had a genetic reunion. Not a h a p p y one. It was all I could do to stop him going to the authorities.
I still don't see the problem.
He may not want a police involvement but he's already threatened to file suit. And he's one of the biggest litigation attorneys in the city.
That's why we have you, Ellen.
That's why I asked Bernard to come out here. To find out how it happened.
I told her, Henry. About synesthesia.
I t was a marginal problem. And it was under control - according to Bernard.
That's not the point. Whether or not it's a factor in this instance, it puts us in breach of the clone laws.
I t doesn't even touch their genetics.
I'm talking about self-awareness. The virtual humanity statutes require us t o give them consciousness to the l e v e l of functionality. But not beyond.
L e g a l l y , we are naked on every level. Federal legislature, state licensing, sponsorship contract... But even if we did manage to weather the legal storm, we'd never survive the public scrutiny.
I've spent my entire career facing down naysayers, Ellen. Don't think for a second I'm afraid of facing them now.
You remember cryogenics? At the outset, people dismissed it as a rich man's folly. Eccentric millionaires freezing their brains, hoping to wake up in a new body.
E v e n when cloning showed signs of m a k i n g it feasible, it wasn't moral a f f r o n t that caused the backlash. It w a s the scope. The scope, Henry. When t h e size of the customer base was e x p o s e d , it screamed inequality - one m e d i c i n e for the rich and one for the p o o r . The pressure for accessible cryo- genics a s good as buried the industry.  O u r graves are being dug as we speak, g e n t l e m e n . Every passing second, they g e t deeper. If we're going to survive, w e have to act swiftly and decisively.
A l r i g h t . What do you suggest?
O u r security chief - I've been looking at his file. Ex-marine, served in South China - do we think he still has it in him?
 A r e you insane?
` You ever wondered why Henry takes those pills, Bernard? Why he doesn't avail himself of his own technology?
An agnate could give me a new heart but to get it to function mentally...
B u l l s h i t , Henry. Bullshit. You don't want to deal with reality. Only with concept. I may not have been there at the start but I heard the stories. You wanted in on every aspect of construction, from environmental design right down to the classical playlists. I t wasn't enough just to make it work, was it? No, you wanted your own little utopia.
Swanning a r o u n d in your mountain r e t r e a t like some self-appointed d e i t y . But when it comes to getting y o u r hands dirty...
A r e you quite finished?
E v e n God has blood on his hands, Henry. Are you going to watch it all go up in flames or are you going to deal with it?
You see that street down there...? Running east from the stadium. My father used to take me to church on that street. An old Spanish church.
What's your point?
I didn't know they'd torn it down.
What did you give her?
J u s t something to help her sleep. I think she has a bronchial infection. But I'm not sure I should give her an antibiotic in case it effects the baby.
S o you know about the baby...
Is n ' t that why you came here?
I found your name in the listings. I wasn't sure. You don't look like her.
The y have a plan... For women like me.
S o you're the one who takes her baby.
You know when you're young? How you run around thinking you're immortal?
The r e was a lodeway accident. I was... damaged. After that, I thought no man would ever want me. I was wrong. His name was John. He said he married me for my eyes. Ocean eyes, he called them. He always loved the ocean. Up there on the wall, that's John's boat.
But I think there was always an unspoken regret between us. When we heard about the technology, it was like... forgive- n e s s , like a second chance. A child of our own, part of both of us. Sailing trips, fishing trips, so many plans...  J o h n got cancer a year ago. He died.
I r o n i c . That the same technology could have saved his life. And now the baby is the only part of him I have left. And the boat. I still have the boat.
I told you we shouldn't have gone to outside personnel. They were cowboys.
We had no choice, Karl. We had to keep this away from The Institute.
An d now?
What's this?
Your resignation papers. Maybe `early retirement' would be more accurate...
T e n platinum bounty - if you sign the papers, their loss becomes your gain.
A parachute... So there's a jump?
You understand that whatever happens, The Institute must be able to deny it.
We use a chemical to dispose of waste product. It's called di-halcyonate. I t reacts on a molecular level to start a process of internal combustion. The subject is incinerated from the inside out. In post-mortem application it's done its job before rigor mortis. In a live subject, well... you can imagine.
You want to dispose of your products.
I t ' s a little more complicated than that. We have to be very... thorough. If you still have it in you, that is.
Why do you think I still wear this?
I don't know.
I was discharged from the marines for insubordination. If you asked anyone i n my unit, they'd call it heroism. I disobeyed an order to fall back. I took out a bunker complex single-handed.
S o you wear it is a badge of honor?
N o . It wasn't bravery. I wasn't afraid of dying. I just didn't care. You see, I suddenly realized I was just a sack of flesh with a heartbeat. Life, death, I just couldn't see the point anymore.
You'll find a vehicle parked outside. It's unregistered, difficult to trace. I take it we have an agreement...?
What do I call you?
Lincoln . My name's Lincoln.
Lincoln , I think she needs professional help. I think she needs to see a doctor.
N o . They'll find her. They'll take her.
N o t if I don't want them to.
You don't understand. They don't want people to know about her. Either of us.
The doctor I'm thinking of, he's an old friend. He look after John in t h e final stages. I trust him.
Why ? So you can take her baby?
N o . No, that's not what I want. O f f Lincoln's blunt look, she sighs, lowering into a chair.
M a y b e I didn't realize she'd      be so...  M a y b e I just didn't want to.      Either way, I was wrong. I want you          to know that. I was wrong... And I'm          sorry.
The y make you believe there's a place called The Island. Then they take you upstairs and put you to sleep. They cut you open. They take pieces of you.
E v e n if I had taken her baby, I swear to you, I'd never have... They give you a choice, you see, to extend the sponsorship after... after d e l i v e r y .
N o . I saw a lot of us go to The Island. But I never saw anyone come back.
You mean... Even if I had extended the sponsorship, they'd have... and kept taking the money? But that's inhuman.
 Is it? I wouldn't know.
Yes?
I'm from the Sanger Institute.
I've given you people enough of my time already.
I t ' s just a formality. I need to see your sponsorship contract.
Is this the only copy?
Why would I make copies? Do you think I want anyone else to know about this?
We l l I've been keeping busy. Trying to. Thanks for coming down to meet me.
I t ' s not me... Not exactly.
C a n you help her?
I don't understand any of this.
He means that by trying to help her, we could lose her. Or lose the baby.
He l l o , stranger.
You look tired, Lincoln.
Ester...
I t ' s okay. I know. Katherine told me. She sits up, lowering her mask. Her hand finding his.
She told me a lot of things. About how they used a tiny part of her to make me. She said it wasn't so very different.
What do you mean?
 F r o m this... From having a baby.
She told me how they use us... And I keep thinking... about the others... the ones we left behind, about how they'll never know... how they'll...
I'm going to be okay, Lincoln.
I know.
No...
We have to go. We have to get her out.
What are you talking about?
He's come for her. For us.
How long before she wakes up?
 You'll take care of it, won't you? Take her somewhere they can't find her...
I'm jealous of you. You have a reason to live. I can't say I've ever had that...
M r s . Ester? My name is Ellen Crowne.
M y name is Henry Sanger. I'd like to offer my deepest condolences.
This is Bernard Merrick our facility director. He knew Ester personally.
An d it's a terrible loss.
L e g a l issues must seem trivial at this time. But the sponsorship agreement has certain conditions relating to confident- i a l i t y . D e s p i t e this tragic t u r n of events, those conditions remain binding. We want to be sure you understand that.
I see.
T h a t said, The Institute is likewise bound by the terms of sponsorship and while we reserve every right...
You can stop there. I know why I'm here. You wanted to know if I'm going to sue you for breach of contract.
N o t h i n g so devious, Mrs. Ester. We simply wanted to find some way to heal the wounds from this incident.
I don't want restitution, Dr. Sanger. The reason I agreed to this meeting was to have the chance to talk to you.
O f course. Please...
I never got to meet you when I visited The Institute. It was one of your sales- m e n who led the tour. I remember how h e described the agnates a s if they were some kind of mindless organisms. More like livestock than humanity...
L e g a l l y , human rights don't apply.
Don't interrupt, Ellen.
I remember how eager I was to believe him. But when I saw w h a t I'd created, in flesh and blood, when I touched h e r , it was I who felt less than human.
I understand.
Ester ' s life was my responsibility and her death is my cross to bear alone. So I'm not going to sue you, Dr. Sanger...  But I am going to blame y o u . Until the day I die, I will silently curse your name. That's w h a t I wanted you to know.
An d now I'd like to leave, please.
We do have other issues to discuss...
N o , Ellen, that's enough. I think Mrs. Ester has said all there is to say.
I don't think they suspected anything.
I know... But it felt good. It felt like something John would have done.
We l l , I don't know about the two of you but I'd say we got off lightly.
Did we?
Don't start getting maudlin, Henry. It's a little too late in the game.
L a d i e s and gentlemen, my name is Lydia and on behalf of our staff, I'd like t o welcome you to The Sanger Institute. Before we start the tour, we'll be serv- i n g r e f r e s h m e n t s in the visitor center and circulating our standard discretion agreements. I should add that today you are all very lucky because our CEO and founder, Dr. Henry Sanger, is with us and will be leading the tour personally.
Yes . . . Mr. Thomas, isn't it? The man tilts up to reveal his face. We see he is LINCOLN...
I can't find my sunglasses. I think I left them on the shuttle.
We l l we're about to start the tour. But I can have someone check for you.
Don't worry. I'll catch up.
S i r , this is a restricted area...
C a s e in point, the clone. Back in the beginning, the mapping of the human genome was declared a historic landmark- to break the curse of heredity, to correct congenital defect... genetic engineering became the brave new world of medical science. A bright future that led to a dark age and much of...  . . . l e g i s l a t i o n we know today. But while the clone laws may have narrowed the field, science marches on. Only to...  I'm sorry, I'm f...
DR. SANGER?
He's having a heart attack! A doctor! Somebody get a doctor in here!
S i r , I've been trying to contact you. It's the ether... Something's wrong.
We l l , Starkweather, if you're watching on etherscreen - your time has come, my friend! You're going to The Island!
 E t h e r c o n ! Ether control, come in!
An y o n e ! Somebody pick up!
That's what I mean. We can't get through. The circuits are locked.
How wide is this going?
C o m m u n i t y - w i d e , sir. Everywhere.
I t ' s been a year since the breakout. A year in hiding, waiting for things to quiet down. I don't know how many made i t out or how many who did, survived. I know there are people called politicians trying to say it never happened. That's why I've kept this journal. To keep the truth alive. Alive... I've learned what that means but it still confuses me. In functional terms, I've been alive for ten years. In human terms, more than thirty. Human... I'm not sure about that one either. They say I'm not human because I have no mother or father. I guess I have more to learn. But one word I do understand is hope. So maybe this j o u r n a l will give hope - to those like me, who may be out there. To know t h e y ' r e not alone. My name is Lincoln S i x - E c h o and this is my testament...
Is he hungry again? I just fed him.
Lincoln Junior, huh? It still doesn't sound right. That name.
I t ' s the name of his father. She lovingly kisses him. Lincoln smiles at her, then the baby, sweeping the hair from the forehead. Unscarred, blemishless.
We should finish packing.
Time to go. Katherine hesitates, part of her unwilling to let the baby go. Then she plants a lingering kiss on his downy hair and lets Ester take him. Lincoln presents her with the data tablet-
You'll make sure this gets out?
Yes . There are people sympathetic to the cause. I'm going to get it to them.
Thank you, Katherine. For everything.
Don't forget that. It has the operating manuals for the boat.
I've been looking at them for months.
But the maps, the charts...
 I don't need them either. Katherine nods, understanding. Nothing more to say, she hugs him. Then turns to Ester with the baby. She folds them in a yearning, almost maternal embrace. Tears well in her eyes. Then the sorrow turns to laughter as the baby starts tugging at her gray hair.
