Dead on the field, four thousand five hundred seventytwo of the enemy  three thousand of our own men. Burial parties are already at work. We are assigning men from every company to clear the field,
 Tell them to pour lime in the graves.
 Enemy casualties estimated as nine thousand  prisoners five hundred.
A greet battle  a great victory!
 To be sure . Enough blood spilled to satisfy anyone --  except General Nikolas Pherides. You're letting that fool drain your life away.
 Your father always prescribed it, and I'm alive to tell you so.
At least get a decent night's sleep.  Consider it a prescription from my father..
Why not Take the doctor's advice? You're the hero of the battle of Corphon.
Hero?
 In the New York Morning Globe, the man who wins victory is always a hero. -
Listen
You know that sound, Oliver?
I heard the same sound at Ladysmith, at Nukden, Port Arthur.  What do you expect after a battle?
You were at those battles as a spectator   I wonder if you can think what that sound might mean to me  those men out there  dead or dying  by my order -- because I willed it so.
Over there, isn't it?
There are a few flat stones at the water's edge, the remnants of a quay which once reached out into the sea. Tied to tall stakes are two small row boats and a third lies half-buried in the sand. The CAMERA HOLDS until the General and Oliver come into the scene and stand looking across the dark water.
Do you mind if I go with you?
There's no one there - nothing but the caves and the dead.
I'll only go as far as the shore and wait for you.
I'll leave this here to guide us back.
Cerberus  the watchdog. He guards the sleep of those who are buried here.
 I'll wait here for you.
She is not there. The coffin is gone.
Maybe you've got the wrong crypt after all it's twenty years when you wore last here.
This was the place.
 There was no house here.
Come in, come in!
 I took it for granted you gentlemen were refugees as are my other guests.
This is General Nikolas Pherides, Commander of the Third Army. I'm Oliver Davis.  To be perfectly frank with you, we didn't expect to find anyone living here.
It is my home.  My name is Hugo Albrecht.
I have not been on the island in twenty years. It is changed - changed completely. Where are the graves -- the coffins?
 This was once a cemetery.
 It may seem an odd choice for a home. Yet I like it. (to Oliver and the General) But you must meet my guests.
This is Mr. St. Aubyn, British Consul from Adrianople.
--    and Miss St. Aubyn.
You were singing, weren't you? A beautiful voice, Miss St. Aubyn.
 That was my companion. She sings little peasant songs quite nicely -- a completely untrained voice, of course.
My secretary, Miss Wollsten.
Jacks -- Henry Jacks. Tinware, best grade and the lowest prices -- (as if quoting a well known slogan) Jacks sells no junk.
Aren't you a little out of your territory?
If the world won't come to Jacks, Jacks goes to the world.
Mr. Jacks is a philosopher.   But, come, sit down with us. We are all anxious to hear of' today's battle.
 A fine fight, sir, but a bit inconvenient for travel. We were under constant shelling all the way down the coast.
The enemy is in retreat. There will be no more fighting here.  I came here to visit the crypts. My wife was buried here. What happened to the bodies?
They were gore before I came here.
But why?
There was some trouble here the villagers on the mainland -this island was the focal point of their anger. They came here broke open the tombs and despoiled the graves.
All the graves?
I'm afraid so. There were rumors people were aroused. Some feared restlessness among the dead you know, the old superstitions.
I donut understand.
I can explain, Master Soldier.
 Vorvolakas!
 You are an old fool.
 here is one who is pale and cold as a lily.
You are still a fool.
 You know the Greek legends, you drink the Greek wine, but you are not a Greek.
But the gods played a little trick on me. I was born in Switzerland.
 You collect these to sell, abroad?
 No more. One day I stood in the Royal Museum at Munich and watched the fat burghers and their broodmare wives staring and poking at my beautiful trophies. Now I am content just to live  here in the heart of a vanished world.
 I wish it'd vanish, I do. I'd give every bloomin' statue in the place for one whiff of fish 'n' chips - for one peek at Piccadilly.
Each to his taste.
I'm going back, first boat to England. I'm going back and hear the sound of Bow Bells. (gets up and starts to the stairs; complaining as he walks) I'm not well. I'm not well. Something's wrong with me something hurts.
 Odd way to describe plain drunkenness.
 He fell.
 That's a strong wine  poor fellow, I should have warned him.
There -- you're all right, now we have you
 Never mind. It'll get him to his room.
My dear sir, you look completely exhausted.
 He is exhausted.
Why don't you stay here tonight? Get a good sleep. You can return to your command in the morning.
Perhaps I had better stay. I am tired.
I'll get Ida to make up your bed.
 The young man, Mr. Davis, seems to be some kind of an unofficial observer  a correspondent of some sort
And the soldier -- He looked at me so strangely -- who is he?
I don't really know where Thea comes from. The ViceConsul at Adrianople brought her to me..
Her name is Thea?
Theodosia.
Her family name?
Damn me, if I know. She's become so much a member of our household I never think of her by any name but Thea -- she has a last name --
I seem to have forgotten.
You do not know her last name -- you do not know from where she came?
 Miss Wollsten - my secretary, she'd know.
 Your daughter is ill.
 She's not too well.
 What is her illness?
Nothing, really. She's been under a great strain -- the journey -- the battle --
Was she ill before that girl came into your household?
 Why -- no not before Thea came
Your daughter is weak -- she feels as if the blood had been drained from her -- and all this since that girl came to work in your house.
This girl --
 This girl -- Thea - is not a servant in my household, sir. She is my daughter's companion. Now, sir, if you'll excuse me, I'll go have a look at Mr. Jacks.
I will go with you.
I hope Mr. Jacks gets to bed in one piece.
M~ father will take care of it.  Pappa is wonderful! No matter what happens, he makes me feel perfectly safe. (with flirtatious emphasis) I could never leave him. I should be utterly helpless by myself.
 You are fortunate in your father.
Thea is an orphan.
 That was a lovely song you sang before we came. Sing it again, will you?
 I adore hearing Thea sing -- but my poor head's beginning to ache.  I'm so sorry.
 Of course. Tomorrow, perhaps, before I go?
You have a chill! You must have a glass of wine.
You can imagine the General's disappointment when he found his wife's body gone.
Then we heard you singing --it was so strange and eerie in a place where we had thought there was only the dead.
I was thinking of death when I sang.
 Thea!
You're making me feel cold.
Perhaps my scarf --
You blew out the light -- to see better in the darkness.
And your hands are cold - cold as dead hands.
 You. You know me?
Swear it. By your winding shroud, do you swear it?
 Maybe you have no memory for the past  Vrykolaka!
Christ be with me
 You thought me a Vrykolaka -a vampire - -
Look -- I am alive.
And I thought the same of you!  I am ashamed. A grown man --
We of the mountain villages are strange people. There are too many old dreams in our blood, eh?
Then you can understand -- you can forgive me.
General
What do they call you? What is your name?
Nikolas Pherides.
The sea! The sea!
What made you say that, Thea?
I don't know.
"The sea - the sea." Those were the very words of Xenophon and the ten thousand - - do you know about them, Thea?
You don't have to. It's inside of you -- all the glory that was Greece - the dancing, the singing and the white marble --
How clover you are, Mr. Albrecht, to see all that in our simple Thea... She is quite pretty, isn't she?
 This was the temple of Hades --the God of the Dead. It contained no images -- just empty space and walls of perfect symmetry.
 How disappointing! I expected it was something more romantic. A temple to the Goddess of Love, perhaps.
 The Greeks thought death was beautiful -- an adventure --a journey to another world.  But I have my other guests to think of -- The General will be wanting to go back to his army. If you'll excuse me --
Cathy - how does it feel to have a father?
What an odd question!
I mean, does one love a father because he is good and kind -or just because he is one's father?
 Why, I love my father because - because I do. Of course, he's nice to me.
Thea -- you're hiding something. Why do you suddenly speak of your father? You told me once you had never seen him -- didn't know him --
I do not know him, but I have seen him.
What is it -- what are you talking about?
You have forgotten my last name?
I have forgotten it, dear.
My last name is Pherides.
You are a happy man Oliver. You have but one world to live in - the world of today. I have two worlds. I have that old dark world of peasant ignorance and superstition in which I was brought up and a new world which the army gave me  a world of mathematics, gun ranges,logistics, tactics, strategy.
 It doesn't seem to bother you much, General.
I will be glad to leave this island. It has too much of that old dark world about it. I will be glad to leave it and that girl
Thea?
There is something evil about her.
Oh, now  now look here
 I know all you are going to say -I have been saying it to myself, but the thought will not leave my mind. She resembles my wife -there is something about her the way she moves  the way she turns her head.
But that should make you like her.
It makes me fear her.
 I can't understand that.
It is not necessary to understand. We are leaving and I am thankful.
Thea, your choice is a very simple one. Either you want to claim him as your father, or you do not.
But one must love a father.
The General  you don't even know him.
Come, Thea, if you're going to claim him as your father you've got to make up your mind. They'll be leaving any minute.
I don't know. As a child. I longed for a father and now - I don't know
Do you like what you've seen, of him'?
I felt he did not like me.
That should decide it or you --
I will let him go. He is dead to me as he is to all my mother's people. I turn my hand against him.
Well, at any rate, I would like to say goodbye to the girl.
We have no time for that.
Ready?
Wait, gentlemen! Wait!
I need your advice  something has happened  Mr.  Jacks
Drunk again?
He's dead. I want the General to see him.
If you wish.
He was going back to hear the sound of Bow bells. He'll never hear them again.
He complained of not feeling well. I thought he was drunk     he staggered.
That staggering. His dying so quickly.  In your campaigns, have you never seen men who staggered before they died, who talked incoherently walked blindly.
I've seen men die drunk - and I've seen men die of the plague.
 Plague? There's no possibility of that, is there?
The rider on the pale horse is Pestilence. He follows the wars.
I'm not sure that it is the plague.
We will know when the next one sickens.  Until then you and I remain here. I will not bring the plague to my troops.
In the meantime it would be useless to alarm the others.  Let them think it was a normal (glancing into Jacks' room) And, perhaps it was - perhaps it was.
 I'm glad you and the General didn't have to leave us. We would feel quite deserted..
 How could we go back to the wars with such pleasant company here..
 Thank you.
You're feeling better, Cathy?  I must admit your island is peaceful enough. Even I have relaxed..  In fact, I feel quite exhausted.
 Perhaps you should rest for a little while, Mr. St. Aubyn.
 Pappa is so strong. Not a bit like me. Even as a child, I was delicate. Then Mamma died, everyone thought I should die, too.
Thea, you've hardly said a word all through dinner.  I feel something strange in the house  cold.
You're afraid because Mr. Jacks is upstairs.
 The dead are dead.. They can do no harm.
Miss Thea complains of the cold. Let's go to the fire.
St.  Aubyn?
 An excellent wine, no doubt, but it has rather a curious brassy taste in my mouth. No I really quite tired.
Good night, Pappa.
Did you hear what Thea said -- as if she knew what threatens us.
That's impossible. I told them Jacks died of a sudden heart attack, probably brought on by over drinking.
Did your servant got word to Dr. Drossos?
 Dr. Drossos should be here any hour now.
If you'll forgive me...I've letters to write.
 I've just been admiring Thea's headdress. I think I shall have a hat made like it a little round cap with a veil
Good night, Oliver.
Sleep well.
 You're not leaving tomorrow..?
I think not.
Until we know, what choice is there? We have to stay.
But the war, the army  they need you.
Better no general than one carrying the plague.
We still don't know that it's the plague
 Dr. Drossos will tell us. We will know what to do then.
I wonder if my editor's psychic? Reports from the Greek front are going to be a little vague.
 Or even spirit messages from the next world.
 I suppose a war correspondent could get the plague.  Well, I'd better try for some sleep - while I'm alive to enjoy it. Good night, gentlemen.
Mr. Davis -
Will you help me? Mr. St. Aubyn is ill - very ill
 His room is down here, isn't it?
If he's not dead, he's certainly a sick man.
 No. No. I won't believe it. He's not dead.
This is Dr. Drossos, chief medical officer of my division.
I don't care who he is. He doesn't know.    He can't tell
 I'll make any test you want. Look.
 He's not dead. I tell you he's not dead.
If there is the finest breath of life it will cloud a mirror.
You see?
 The breath can stop, the heart can stop  it still doesn't mean death. Men have lived --
Quite right. In cataleptic trance, a man may live for days with no visible sign of life. The breath suspended,the heartbeat stilled-- (looking down at St. Aubyn) But this man is dead.
What difference does it make? Covered or uncovered, the eyes see no more.
We are faced with a very serious form of plague. Its first symptoms are dizziness, nausea, weakness, inability to focus the eyes or control the limbs. This is followed by acute spasms, sometimes blindness, and finally, in moat cases, death.
 I don't want to hear any more. You can't keep me here. This horrible island  it has cost me my father  it will kill all of us.
 I will not have the plague carried to my troops. No one leaves here not you, not I, not anyone.
The doctor only wants us to know the worst, for our own good. Besides, he holds out some hope --
If the wind shifts, if the sirocco blows -- the hot wind from the South -- all danger will be over in twenty-four hours.
 Good winds and bad winds!
 The disease is transmitted by fleas and their bodies are eighty percent moisture. The hot wind literally burns them away.
The ancient Greeks had just as good an explanation -- that the gods sent the plague to punish mortals for harboring Vrykolaka --
 They used to believe that sort of thing in the mountain villages. Some still do --
 I do not.
 If you have nothing more to tell us, will you excuse me -
She's right. This is hardly the time to bandy old tales.
I have lived long enough to doubt everything -- which is to say, I believe everything, a little.
You're just talking nonsense.
Let us put it to the test. Protect yourself with every scientific precaution you can think of. I'll go out on the cliff and build a votive fire to Hermes -- not that I believe in him any more than I do in Science.
 We will see who is the first to die.
 Very well. I'll wager a dinner.
 I know it must be hard. But you have relatives in London --you've got a whole world of living, ahead of you --
 No one can take my father's place.
My handkerchief - I think I must have lost it - perhaps when we were in the grove.  Thea!
I'll find it.
You can't go down there alone - -
Cathy --
I wish I didn't have such bitter knowledge of you, Cathy.
Whet do you mean?
They were talking about the Vrykolakas this morning. Cathy, that's what you are  a weak, pale, half-dead thing that drains all the life and joy from those who want to live.
 Miss Wollsten!
You and your mysterious illness. A new attack everytime you are crossed  everytime you can't get your own way.
Your father knew it too. But he was never sure how much was pretense.
 How do you know what my father thought - -
 Your father loved me.  He wanted to marry me. But he was afraid of hurting the gentle, delicate Cathy. You spoiled his life you've ruined mine
You were father's secretary - I never thought - -
Didn't you? But now -- what are you thinking now?
What would I be thinking?
Mr. Davis seems a good prospect young handsome, sympathetic -- ready to listen to you and feel sorry for you - -
What if he is?
 But Thea -- She stands in your way. I know you. I know your little hints  the way you can turn the truth into a lie --
Why, I'm fond of Thea.
You're planing something, Cathy.. But I won't let you - I'll warn them against you.
You will not say one single word. I know your secret.
That your father and I
No. I mean your other secret -    the one you kept bidden even from my father. That old doctor in London -- he told me.
Thea.
You're crying. Why?
 I don't know. Everything's so mixed up --
 Everything's so simple. I like you.
What's bothering you, Thea? Is it the General?
Sometimes when he looks at me in that strange way, I'm afraid of him.
Don't let it trouble you. He's an old man and these last few days have been a terrible strain on him. He won't harm you.
You gave us quite a start -- standing there.
Tomorrow they move on to engage the enemy  to beat him back across the Bosphorus.
It's hard going, General. You wanted to lead them. Here you are quarantined just because you wanted to pray at your wife's side  and even her body is gone.
 Thea is so like her  in every feature
 If she looked like Thea, she must have been beautiful.
She was beautiful. There was blood between her family and my kin. But that did not stop me from taking her when I saw her beauty, nor did it stop her from loving me.
How did she die?
I don' t know. When I was gone the people from her village came to my home seeking vengeance. They bore her away with them. Months later she came back pale -- sick -- she died --
Is this what you wanted to speak to me about?
In a way -- this girl, Thea. You must stay away from her.
I had a notion you had become selfappointed chaperone lately why?
You are my friend.
And I'm your friend  but that doesn't explain why you are always trying to come between Thea and me?
If I told you  you wouldn't believe me -- but this much I can tell you  the girl is dangerous to you. Take a friend's advice -- an old man' s advice -- leave her alone -
 That's ridiculous -- Thea's lovely, gentle -
 Listen to what I say --
When you make sense I'll listen.
Where's Thea?
I think she went to bed  I saw her going toward the house
 Let the doctor guard us against the plague - I shall stand guard against the other things -- the things we cannot understand.
 I suppose you want to hear my prayer to Hermes.
I just came to see if your prayer would entertain me as much as my medicine seems to amuse you.
 You're too late, my friend. I have already made my prayers. And how about your scientific efforts?
 Also too late. I owe you a dinner.
 You feel the symptoms?
My friend -- what can one say --
You can have your servants prepare a dinner. That is the way I'll meet my old- familiar enemy -- Death --I have fought him before. I've won often. Now he wins. Let him come for me at my own banquet.
 When I was a young man, I prescribed moderation in all things. Especially wine.
When I was young a man was measured by the skins of wine he could empty.
 And then - - the Vrykolaka will get you, if you don't watch out...
Oh, no - it's too delicious! You're making it up!
On my word! That's what they believe.
 Please.. You shouldn't laugh --
 You see? Thea believes it, too!
Tell me about them, Thea. They have great wings end long teeth --
 Sharp, shiny teeth -- and they creep up to your bed --
Closer and closer - until they bite into your throat!
Oh, my poor simple Thea!  Did you ever see anything so ludicrous?
Thea! Come here!
Look at her. Warm, beautiful - alive. Drink with me, Thea - Drink to my old enemy, who wins at last --
 There is only one place where the women bewitch one with their beauty.
Everything's dead in here, dead and empty. (gesturing toward the door) Out there; the night is alive.
 Someone should go with him. He's has had too much to drink.
I think Thea is steady enough for both. She has not had too much to drink.
 Don't go. You are leaving me, you are all leaving me --
I'm here. The General is here. You are not alone.
 I must meet him with laughter - with songs and laughter -- to show him I am not afraid --
He is dying.
 When she stood beside him, I knew. I could feel death in the room.
 Oliver --
What is it, Cathy? What's the matter?
My father -- I'm alone, Oliver, completely alone!
 Poor Cathy --
 Last night Dr. Drossos -- today you or I -- oh, no, Oliver, it can't be you, I couldn't stand it.
There's no reason to decide any of us are going to die.
If only we could get away - - you and I. The others are strangers, they mean nothing to me
 We have to get away, we have to live. I have no one in the world -- you must stay with me, care for me
We'll talk later, when you're yourself again.
 The wind has not changed.
 Poor child. These must be horrible days for you.
I'm so ill, I'm so exhausted -- I almost don't care.
You look so pale this morning, as if all your blood were drained away.
Has that girl -- has Thea ever told you where she comes from?
 Some village in the mountains -- Alethera, I think.
Has she spoken to you of her father and her mother?
 She has never mentioned her family.
How old is she?
 I don't know --- fairly young.
The sun is so strong here.
You have deceived me long enough. Now I have found out. You are from Alethera -- from where I took you and from where you came to die - - to die without dying - -
Why are you making up these things - - why are you wishing evil on me? (as if answering her own question) You know who I am, don't you?
 I wish I didn't know.    I wish I had never found you again.
I knew you hated me and my people -- but I didn't know your hatred was so bitter --
It isn't hatred. I couldn't hate you.
 I failed you twenty years ago. Now, I've come to do what must be done.
To take me with you?
 No - - no -- to do what I should have done.
Thea --
Thea --
 I'm here..
 I watched you -- you've bewitched him. But he is my friend. You'll not do to him what you have done to the young English girl.
Thea, what's wrong?
The General threatened me.
 Oh, that Vrykolaka business. You mustn't be too angry with him, Thea. He's an old man and now with all this trouble  the disappointment in not being able to lead his own army to victory -- cooped up here waiting for death - naturally his mind goes back to the things he believed when he was an ignorant lad in some mountain village.
He keeps asking for the name of my father and mother.
Well, tell, him.
I can't.
Why in the world can't you?
He hates all my race.
I knew that feuds still went on, but I didn't think people like you and the General would be involved.
It is more than a feud between two families. He stole my mother away from her people.
Thea, what is this? What are you trying to tell me? "He stole your mother" -
 It is for that he hates me.
 I don't think so, Thea. He has spoken of your mother. I don't believe he knows you are his daughter.
Then why does he persecute me? My family told me what kind of man he is, how he stole my mother and then abandoned her --
 They didn't tell you the whole truth. Why do you think your mother went back to him after you were born?
Because she loved him.  I know him, Thea. Believe me, he is not a cruel man.
 For a moment, when he looked at me so sadly, I felt that I had wronged him. But then --
Let me tell him. When he knows you are his child, he'll forget these insane notions -
 No -- you musn't. He thinks I've bewitched you. He won't believe it - he'll hate me even more! My only chance is to stay away from him.
Perhaps you are right. He's not himself now. We'll wait  and in the meantime, don't be afraid I'll take care of you..
Woman, what are you doing here?
 I wanted to be sure of something, General -- something that has always preyed on my mind. I have a horror of being buried alive and awakening to find myself shut in - entombed  imprisoned..
 He sleeps quietly. He died with a wine glass in his hand -- he died laughing -- a brave man, Drossos, like his father before him.
Because he was a brave man - because I liked him -- I came here to be sure.
He's dead enough. God rest his soul.
General -
I'm a woman -- a lonely woman. I have few friends.
 Yes?
I have not had a happy life --but that one thing - - that terror which brings me awake out of deep sleep - I want to avoid it.
I don't understand you.
I don't want to be buried alive. If I die I want to be sure - quite sure.
If you should fall sick we'll be careful. You need not worry.
No, I want more than that. I beg you General, make sure --drive a knife through my heart -- anything.
 You ask that of me? You're afraid to live in your coffin. You know what that means?
 That's superstition. That's something out of old tales -- about the dead who live - I'm talking of something else --cataleptic attacks -- apparent death that is not real.
Never fear -- when you are dead you will remain dead. I will see to it that you do not walk about again. I promise you that. There is another one here who can not die. I will watch you both. Never fear.
General -
What are you doing?
I was looking for you.
I have been troubled about you. I want you to know that my room is just downstairs --  You have only to cry out if you are ill  or frightened.
 How kind you are. It is so comforting to know that someone cares.
 You no longer have your father - (smiles almost affectionately) And I have no children.
Miss Wollsten shares the room with you?
No, that's Thea's bed. Miss Wollsten's bed is in there.
 I'll see you at dinner.
I've always known what an evil mind lay behind that pretty weak face of yours  but this, Cathy -- even I would never have believed it is of you.
 Would you care to explain what you're talking about?
You've been playing on the superstitions of that poor old man working at him   turning him against Thea.
 Really, this is idiotic!
You'd do anything to get Oliver away from Thea. But I'm going to stop you. I'm going to tell Mr. Davis exactly what you are.
And what makes you think he'll believe you, when I tell him what you are - - what part you played in my father's life --
When I tell him that you're unfit to live a normal life with normal people - a cataleptic!
 You wouldn't tell that
Wouldn't I?
Then tell them! You're despicable, a monster of vanity with heart for no one but yourself. Tell them everything -- but I will tell them too - and you'll lose, Cathy -- you understand -- you'll lose!
It has been brisk and warm today. Take comfort  We always have these perfect days before the sirocco blows.
Where is Miss Wollsten?
She's in her room.
I'll get her    --
If Mr. Albrecht is right, we'll all be free in a few days.  I suppose you'll be going on to Athens?
 I don't know now without my father.
You are right. You shouldn't be traveling alone.  Why don't you make the trip with her?
 I'd like to, very much -- but it depends on what dispatches are waiting for me on the mainland.
 In case you do so, would you --
Over the scene come the sound of a door opening, quick footsteps and ad lib voices. As Thea raises her head, the CAMERA DRAWS BACK to show the General in the doorway of the room, with Oliver, Albrecht and Cathy behind him. As the General stares into the room, Thea's hand goes up to her necklace. She rises quickly as the General comes forward and steps aside. The General drops to one knee beside Miss Wollsten's body.
She is dead.
There are no marks.
Help me put her on the bed.
I want to make those tests that Dr. Drossos made. (looking down at the corpse) I promised her.
Her heart is stopped -- there is no breath.
Nothing.  There is a way to make sure -
No. We can do without that.
Another sad task. We'll bury her tomorrow.  I think we'd better lock the door for tonight. It will make them less uncomfortable.
 No.  She shall not be left here.
Maybe you're right. Help me get something to carry her downstairs.
Rest in peace.
 General! The wind --- look the wind has changed to the South.
It's the sirocco -- we'll be able to get away from here -- you can take command of your army
I have had command for the last time -
Come - you'll feel yourself again as soon as we get off this dismal island.
 I shall not leave the island
 I'm going to get Albrecht. Watch the General for me.
The wind has changed. There's no more danger for the army. You can go.
 It's getting dark. I can't leave now.
 In the morning -- go. I'll not die until then - I'll not die  I'll watch - they shall not hurt you.
 Shh it's all right - I'll be all right.
They shall not hurt you
Vrykolaka -- Vrykolaka --
 Vrykolaka!
It doesn't look much like the fish spears I knew back in Marblehead..
 Our friend, Poseidon, didn't use it for fishing. He raked the sea with it and stirred up the big waves.
 I'll go up and take a look at the General - perhaps sit with him.
He won't even know you're there. He is delirious.
All the more reason to watch him. He's had some wild notions lately.
Don't bother. Go to bed and get some sleep. I'll be working late.  I can hear any movement down here.
 Well
Go ahead. I'll wake you up when I go to bed. Then you can watch him.
Thank you, I'll do that. Good night.
You should sleep, Cathy. Lie down and close your eyes. Try to forget everything.
 When I close my eyes, I see Miss Wollsten. I can't think of anything else.
 She is dead  at peace.
 Suppose, she isn't dead. Suppose it was a cataleptic attack?
It was, the plague
 We quarreled. She never dared get angry or frightened -- but I said things to her -- it was an attack, I know it was.
Then let us go to her, Cathy. We'll make sure  and your mind will be at rest.
 Oh, no - I couldn't Thea. I couldn't go into the crypt.  I'm afraid, you know I'm afraid.
 What are you going to do?
I'll be back soon. Don't worry anymore, Cathy.
 Who is there?
Is that you, Oliver?
Cathy?
Cathy!
Thea?
Oh - sleeping -- Oliver wouldn't like that.  Well, everything seems to be all right.
Goodnight.
 Vrykolaka.
 Theodosia --
 Not Theodosia. Theodosia's daughter -- your daughter.
Daughter -- my daughter --
She was born before your wife returned here to die. You never knew.
 With Poseidon's trident she paid her way to Hades. He let her pass through the portals into his dark realm.
 Goodbye.
May life be good to you both. As for the others  they will be quiet here  and I will be with them.
