Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 2.
What do you want?
Shelter. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 4.
I can't take in vagrants. Here's a penny. Now take it and go.
I have no strength to go.
You can move off. And if there are others with you tell them we are not alone. We have a gentleman here, and dogs.
 But I must die if I am turned away.
God help me. I will die.
All of God's creatures must die. But not prematurely - and not on my doorstep I hope.
We've had a beggar woman come, Mr Rivers. I sent her - For shame!
You did your duty in excluding her. Let me do mine in admitting her.
St John, who is it? Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 5.
I don't know; I found her at the door.
 I thought her one of the gypsies from the cross.
She's as white as death.
Hannah, some water.
She's worn to nothing. She looks like a spectre. St John, if you hadn't taken her in, we would have fallen upon her dead body in the morning.
Mary.
She's no vagrant; I'm sure of it.
There's milk and bread for you.
Ask her her name.
I - I am J -
Jane Eyre!
Please, tell us how we may help you.
Can we send for anyone? Who are your people? Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 6.
Jane Eyre! Where are you?
Come out, rat. I know you are in here. Come out now and I won't punish you.
Rat.
Diana, Mary help me get her upstairs...
I have been looking for you these last ten minutes.
What do you want?
Say forgive me, Master Reed.
I have done nothing wrong. Master Reed.
Who gave you permission to read my book?
I wasn't aware it was yours.
Everything in this house is mine. You're lucky to live here with gentleman's children like us. Your father had nothing. You should go and beg.
That's for the look you had on your face. You bad animal.
Wicked and cruel - you are a slaver - a murderer -
I shall tell mother -
I hate you John Reed. I hate you - Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 8.
Mamma! Mamma! There's a rat! Rat!
For shame, hitting your master.
If you don't sit still you must be tied down!
What we do is for your own good. If you are passionate and rude like this, your Aunt Reed will send you away.
You're worse than us servants. We work for our keep; you do nothing. Pray for forgiveness Miss Eyre or something bad will come down that chimney and fetch you away.
Miss Eyre what is it?
Bessie!
Have you seen something?
There was a light.
Bessie, I gave orders that she was to be left in the red room until I came. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 10.
But she screamed so loud ma'am.
It is play-acting. Let her go. I know your tricks Jane Eyre and I abhor such artifice. Loose Bessie's hands, child.
You will now stay here an hour longer.
No - Aunt, have pity -
And only when you are perfectly submissive will I let you out.
Please - I cannot bear it -
Silence. This violence is repulsive.
I shall be killed -
Get back!
Have mercy, have mercy I beg you -
Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 11.
She's awake.
I'm sure we'll find she's simply had a misunderstanding with her people. I hope she's not done anything deplorable; there's nothing so sad as a fallen young woman.
Look at the suffering in her eyes. They're like dark pools -
She has a peculiar face; I rather like it.
She's not at all handsome.
She's so ill, St John.
Ill or well, she'll always be plain.
There is no sight so sad and so deplorable as that of a wicked little girl. Do you know, Jane Eyre, where the wicked go after death?
They go to hell.
And what is hell, can you tell me that? Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 12.
A pit full of fire.
And should you like to fall into that pit and be burning there forever?
No sir.
What must you do to avoid it?
I must keep in good health and not die.
I've been her sole benefactress and her kindest friend. But she shows no gratitude and brings nothing but discord into my house.
What is her parentage?
She's an orphan. Her mother was my late husband's sister. On his deathbed he exhorted me to care for her. I have always treated her as one of my own.
If you accept her at Lowood school Mr Brocklehurst, keep a strict eye on her. Her worst fault is a tendency to deceit. I'm sorry to tell you that Jane Eyre is a liar.
All liars will have their portion in the lake burning with fire and brimstone. She shall be watched, Mrs Reed.
I wish her to be made useful, to be kept humble. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 13.
You can rest assured dear lady that we mortify our girls in the sentiments of vanity and pride. They are taught to be quiet, plain and modest.
We shall root out the wickedness in this small, ungrateful plant.
And as for its vacations, it must spend them all at Lowood.
So, Rat, you're being sent away. It's as I thought; you're not fit to associate with me.
You are not fit to associate with me!
You said I was a liar. Well I am not. If I was, I should say that I loved you and I don't. I dislike you the worst of anybody in the world except John Reed. He is a liar, not I.
How dare you speak in this manner.
I'll never call you Aunt again as long as I live and if anyone asks how I liked you I'll say that the very thought of you makes me sick. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 14.
You wouldn't dare.
I'll remember how you thrust me back into the Red Room and locked me there to my dying day. Even when you knew it was haunted and I begged to be let out. People think you are good but you are bad and hard-hearted and I'll let everyone at Lowood know what you have done!
Children must be corrected for their faults.
Deceit is not my fault!
But you are passionate.
My Uncle Reed is in heaven and can see all that you do and think; so can my mother and father. They know how you hate me and wish me dead. They can see. They see everything you do and they will judge you, Mrs Reed.
You're such a queer, solitary little thing. If only you could make yourself more appealing. Perhaps if you tried smiling from time to time, people would find you more pleasant -
Don't scold me Bessie. I know you dislike me -
I don't dislike you Miss; I'm fonder of you than of anyone.
You don't show it. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 15.
Miss Jane -
You take good care of her.
What's your name, child?
Jane Eyre.
You are very young to be sent alone, Jane Eyre.
My name is Jane Elliott...
Jane Elliot.
Where do you come from, Miss Elliott?
Who can we send for to help you? Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 16.
No one.
Do you mean to say that you are absolutely without home and without friends?
Yes sir.
How did you come to be roaming the moors, Miss Elliott?
Don't upset her, St John. She must not be interrogated so.
Mr Rivers, you and you sisters have done me a great service, the greatest man can do - you have rescued me from death.
How are we to help you if we know nothing about you?
I'll tell you as much as I can. I am an orphan; brought up a dependent; educated in a charity school where I passed six years as a pupil and two as a teacher. I left a year since to become a private governess -
YES -
A good situation, where I remained until...
Diana, didn't I say so? Didn't I say she was a governess?
We did wonder. We mean no offence but you have a certain look. Mary and I work as governesses too. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 17.
 Do you?
We are currently trying to teach ourselves German, so we may find better positions.
You're not working at present?
We came home only for our father's funeral.
He died three weeks ago.
I am very sorry to hear it.
Why did you leave your place of employment?
I... It was a catastrophe.
What did you do?
I am free from any blame, sir. I was happy.
That's enough for now, St John.
You must rest, Miss Elliott.
Why did you start?
Because that is not my name. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 18.
You haven't given us your real name?
Why not?
Because I must not ever be found.
Merciful Jesus, enlighten thou me with the brightness of thine inward light...
And take away all darkness from the habitation of my heart...
Join me to thyself with an inseparable band of love... For thou, even thou alone, dost satisfy him that loveth thee...
And without thee all things are vain and empty. Amen.
Welcome to our table, Miss Elliott.
I'd appreciate it if you called me Jane. It is my own name.
It's wonderful to see you on your feet, Miss Jane.
I trust I will not be eating long at your expense, Mr Rivers.
You wish to be independent of my charity?
I wish to work, sir. Show me how to work or how to seek work; that's all I ask.
You're not fit enough to work.
My sisters have always taken pleasure in keeping injured birds but I'm more inclined to put you in a way of keeping yourself - and shall endeavour to do so, if that's what you wish.
With all my heart, sir.
It's a shame she has no choice of helpers, St John, and must put up with such crusty people as you.
This school you were at, Miss Elliot, this charitable institution; what did it prepare you for?
Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 20.
Was it a thorough education?
Most thorough.
Burns, Helen Burns!
You're a slattern and a disgrace!
I might have known. The new girl. Step forward, Jane Eyre.
It is my duty dear children, to warn you that this girl is not one of God's own lambs.
She is a castaway and an alien in his flock and you must be on your guard against her. For this child... is a liar!
This is the pedestal of infamy - and you'll remain upon it all day. You'll receive no sustenance and no comfort, for you must learn how barren is the life of the sinner. Children, I exhort you to shun her, exclude her, shut her out from this day forth. Withhold the hand of friendship and deny your love to Jane Eyre, the liar.
Come now, don't cry.
You're not allowed to speak to me. I must be shunned.
Mr Brocklehurst is not a God. He's not liked or admired here -
He said I was a liar.
JANE -
I am not a liar!
If your own conscience approves you, then so will I.
How do you bear it? Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 22.
Bear what?
Being struck.
I'm a trial to Miss Scatcherd. She hits me to improve me.
If she hit me I would get that birch from her hand and break it under her nose.
You'd just be punished even more. It's part of life here.
I have always been excluded and alone and hated. Miss Abbott used to call me an ugly little toad.
You're not ugly. Do you know what is inside you?
What?
The spark of your spirit, the principle of light and thought, pure and bright, as perfect as anything created.
What do you mean?
Your soul. Your soul is beautiful, your soul has value - more value than anything on earth.
Is that true?
Yes. God sees your beauty. Even as you stand on that stool, there is an invisible world around you, a kingdom of spirits. It is everywhere. Angels see your pain. Angels know your innocence. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 23.
Angels?
Do you not believe in angels?
Come here, Girls.
I shall investigate Mr Brocklehurst's claims against you, Jane. And unless they are proved, you will be exonerated.
Also, I understand you girls have had no food today.
We've lived here all our lives but the house must be shut up now.
Why?
We can't afford to keep it on. Diana and I will return to our charges in a few days and St John will go to his parsonage.
It'll be a hard parting for us. We may not see him again for years.
Why ever not?
He means to be a missionary. He's going to India to do Gods's work.
Can he not do God's work here?
This quiet parish will never do for him; he almost raves in his restlessness. It breaks our hearts.
St John burns with talents and ambition. But he lacks the means for advancement here. Our poverty thwarts him at every turn and so he has chosen to lay all his gifts on God's altar.
We've tried to persuade him to stay but in some things our brother is - he is -
Inexorable as death.
We are now without father. We'll soon be without home and brother.
In one thing you are fortunate.
You have each other.
This is the result of semi- starvation and neglected colds; Brockelhurst's idea of mortifying their bodies to save their souls. TYPHUS -
Write to the governors. You must.
Helen.
Is it you, Jane? Have you come to say goodbye?
You're cold.
I'm very happy. I am going home.
Back to your father?
My father has a new wife. He'll not miss me much.
Then where?
To my future home, where all is light. I am going to God. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 26.
No...
Don't be sad. I will escape great suffering by dying young.
No...
I don't have any talent to make my way in life. I should be always at fault. But God is my friend. He loves me.
Then he must save you.
He is saving me.
I feel like I could sleep now. I like to have you near -
I won't leave you.
You're so warm and alive. Jane, you have a passion for living.
Jane...
No, no, no -
Jane? Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 27.
Have you something for me to do?
You are doing something already. May I see?
That's Miss Temple on her wedding day. She was my teacher; a great influence on me. Under her guidance I became a teacher too.
St John -
No, Mary, please -
See how skilled Jane is.
She is better than any drawing master we have ever had.
How fierce I am, Miss Elliott.
Mr Rivers, I wondered if you had yet heard of any work that I could do.
I found you a situation some days ago but I've delayed telling you because the work is lowly and I fear you'll scorn it. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 28.
I shan't mind what I do.
As I am poor and obscure, the help I can offer is of the meanest sort.
St John, what are you going to offer her? Not washerwoman, I hope?
When I took over the parish two years ago it had no school. I opened one for boys; I now intend to open one for girls. The school mistress will have a two-roomed cottage paid for by local benefactors and she will receive fifteen pounds a year. You can see how humble, how ignoble it is.
Mr Rivers, I thank you heartily and I accept with all my heart.
But you comprehend me? It's a village school - cottagers daughters. What will you do with all your fine accomplishments?
I will save them until they are wanted. They will keep.
I hear you are to leave us, Miss Eyre.
Yes. Excuse me.
If Jane Eyre of Lowood School...
...Who advertised in the Yorkshire Herald, possesses the acquirements mentioned...
...And if she is in a position to give satisfactory references, a situation can be offered where there is but one pupil, a little girl under ten years of age and where the salary is thirty pounds a year. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 30.
Jane Eyre is requested to send references and all particulars to Mrs Fairfax at Thornfield Hall.
How do you do, my dear? What a long and tedious journey you must have had of it. John is quite the slowest driver in the county. You must be cold to the bone.
Are you Mrs Fairfax?
Indeed I am; come and warm yourself in here.
Your poor hands must be quite numb; here, let me help you.
Leah, make a little hot port and cut a sandwich or two.
Draw nearer the fire. John is taking your trunk up to your room.
I've put you at the back of the house; I hope you don't mind. The rooms at the front have much finer furniture but they are so gloomy and solitary I think.
I'm so glad you are come. To be sure this is a fine old house but I must confess that in winter one can feel a little dreary and alone. Leah is a very nice girl and John and Martha good people too, but they are servants - and one cannot talk to them on terms of equality.
Am I to have the pleasure of meeting Miss Fairfax tonight?
Who?
Miss Fairfax - my pupil?
Oh you mean Miss Varens; Mr Rochester's ward. She is to be your pupil.
Who is Mr Rochester?
Why, the owner of Thornfield.
I thought Thornfield Hall belonged to you.
 Oh bless you child, what an idea. To me? I am only the housekeeper.
Forgive me - Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 32.
There is a distant connection between Mr Rochester and I - his mother was a Fairfax - but I'd never presume on it. Heavens, me, owner of Thornfield?
We shall have a cheerful house this winter...
With Miss Varens here - and with you - we'll have quite a merry time of it.
I'm sure that last winter - and what a severe one - if it didn't rain it snowed and if it didn't snow it blew a gale - last winter I declare that not a soul came to the house from November to February.
I got quite melancholy night after night alone. When spring finally came I thought it a great relief that I hadn't gone distracted.
Here.
OH -
Good night, my dear. I hope you'll be comfy.
Thank you.
What a beautiful house.
Mr Rochester's visits here are always unexpected. He doesn't like to arrive and find everything all swathed up, so I keep it in constant readiness. Now, come and meet Miss Varens. Did I mention she was French?
 Sophie has been crying because no one understands. Nobody can speak to us except for Mr Rochester and he has gone away. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 34.
Would you ask her about her parents? Mr Rochester's neglected to tell me anything about her.
 Where did you live Adele, before you came to Thornfield?
 With Maman - but she is gone to the Holy Virgin now.
Her mother has passed away.
 Maman used to teach me to dance and say verses. When gentlemen came to see her I used to dance for them or sit on their knees and sing. May I sing for you now?
 Well - that would be lovely.  Adele is going to show us her accomplishments.
How very French...
Me! It is me!
Here. For you. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 35.
Who's there?
Who sleeps up here?
No one. This part of the house is quite empty, except for you and me.
I heard someone.
You can't have done.
A laugh. Someone laughed.
Oh - that must be Grace Poole. She likes to sit up here with her sewing. Rather an eccentric soul.  Grace? Grace!
Miss Eyre has heard a laugh.
I thought I might find you up here. I've been waiting to pour our tea.
I'm not in need of tea, thank you.
What is it, child? You've been here three months now and I'm worried that the position is not enough / to occupy your -
Oh, Mrs Fairfax, no. I'm so thankful to be at Thornfield. Please don't think I'm so ungrateful as to be discontented.
But it's a quiet life, isn't it? This isolated house; a still doom for a young woman...
I wish a woman could have action in her life, like a man. It agitates me to pain that the sky- line over there is ever our limit. I long sometimes for a power of vision that would overpass it. If I could behold all I imagine... I've never seen a city, never spoken with men. I've never even seen a town of any size. And I fear my whole life will pass, without ever having...
Well now - exercise is a great cure for anything, they say.  Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 37.
I have some letters to post; will you take them?
What the deuce -
Hellfire.
Pilot, get down! GET DOWN I SAY!
Can I do anything, sir?
Get back.
Mesrour. Mesrour.
Damnation.
Are you injured, sir?
If you are hurt and want help I can fetch someone from the village. I'm on my way there to post a letter.
Where do you come from?
Thornfield Hall.
Whose house is that?
Mr Rochester's.
Do you know Mr Rochester?
No, I've never seen him.
You're not a servant there...
I am the governess, sir. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 39.
The governess.  Deuce take me, I had forgotten.
The governess.
Have you got an umbrella I can use as a stick?
No.
Then try to get hold of his bridle and lead him to me.
If you would be so kind...
Perhaps it would be easier to bring me to the horse. Come here.
Forgive me. I must beg of you to come here.
Mesrour.
Thank you.  Now, make haste with your letter. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 40.
Mr Rochester is here.
Oh?
Go and change your frock; he wishes to meet you.
I have to change?
Oh yes - I always dress for the evening when Mr Rochester is here.
But all my dresses are the same.
 You must have one that is better? He's in a terrible humour; the doctor has been. His horse fell in Hay lane and his ankle is sprained.
Here is Miss Eyre, Sir.
 Let her sit.
I have examined Adele and I find you've taken great pains with her. She's not bright, she has no talents - yet in a short time she's made much improvement.
Thank you.
You've been resident here three months?
Yes, sir.
And from whence do you hail; what's your tale of woe?
Pardon?
All governesses have a tale of woe; what's yours?
 I was brought up by my Aunt, Mrs Reed of Gateshead, in a house far finer than this. At ten years old I went to Lowood school where I received as good an education as I could hope for. I have no tale of woe, sir.
Where are your parents?
Dead.
Do you remember them? Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 42.
No.
And why are you not with Mrs Reed of Gateshead now?
She cast me off, sir.
Why?
Because I was burdensome and she disliked me.
Lowood; that's a charity school, isn't it?
Yes.
How long did you survive there?
Eight years.
No tale of woe...
I daily thank providence for sending us Miss Eyre. She's a kind and patient teacher and an invaluable / companion -
Don't trouble yourself to give her a character. I'll judge for myself. She began by felling my horse.
Sir?
I have her to thank for this sprain.
Adele has brought me these; are they yours? Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 43.
Yes sir.
Where did you get your copies?
Out of my head.
That head I now see on your shoulders?
Yes sir.
Who's this?
The evening star.
Why did you bewitch my horse?
Tonight I will have my cadeaux. He always bring me a cadeaux.
Sorry to disturb. He's asked for your art.
What for? Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 44.
He wishes to have it.
Why?
To show to his company, I should think. Is this it here? Thank you.
Monsieur!
Ah, there she is...
Ma boite, ma boite!
Take it away you genuine daughter of Paris and amuse yourself with disembowelling it.
We'll open it together, shall we?
Miss Eyre. Sit there. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 45.
I'm not fond of children.
Oh Ciel! Que c'est beau!
Nor do I particularly enjoy simple-minded old ladies. But you might suit me - if you would.
How, sir?
By distracting me from the mire of my thoughts.
Monsieur, je vous remercie mille fois de votre bonte...
That is how Maman used to say, is it not?
Precisely.
Let's try it on, shall we?
 And that is how she charmed my English gold out of my English breeches pocket.
Your gaze is very direct, Miss Eyre? D'you think me handsome?
No sir. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 46.
I was too plain; I beg your pardon.
What fault do you find with me? I have all my limbs and all my FEATURES -
Mr Rochester, it was a blunder. I ought to have replied that beauty is of little consequence -
Now you stick a knife under my EAR -
You have other qualities, sir.
Just so; other qualities... When I was your age I was a felling enough fellow. I might have been insulted then. You're blushing Miss Eyre.
Not at all.
And though you're not pretty any more than I am handsome, I must say it becomes you.  And now I see you're fascinated by the flowers on the rug.
I'd like to draw you out. Come, speak to me.
What about, sir?
The choice of subject is entirely yours.
How can I introduce a subject when I don't know what'll interest you? Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 47.
The fact is, Miss Eyre, I don't wish to treat you like an inferior.
Yet you'd command me to speak?
Well I probably have a right to be a little abrupt and exacting on the grounds of my superiority in age. There must be twenty years between us and a century's advance in experience.
I don't think you have a right to command me just because you're older. Your claim to superiority depends on the use you've made of your time and experience.
I've made indifferent use of both. And this is why I sit, galled by my own thoughts - and order you to divert me. Are you very hurt by my tone of command?
There are few masters who'd trouble to enquire whether their paid subordinates were hurt by their commands.
Oh yes... paid subordinate; I'd forgotten the salary. Well on that mercenary ground, will you consent to speak with me as my equal - without thinking that the request arises from insolence?
I'd never mistake informality for insolence, sir. One, I rather like. The other, nothing free born should ever submit to - even for a salary.
Humbug. Most free-born things would submit to anything for a salary. But I mentally shake hands with you for your answer.  Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 48.
Not three in three thousand schoolgirl governesses would have answered me as you've just done.
You've clearly not spent much time in the company of schoolgirl governesses. I'm the same plain kind of bird as all the rest, with my couple of accomplishments and my common tale of woe.
I envy you.
How?
Your openness, your clear conscience, your unpolluted mind. If I were eighteen I think we truly would be equals. Nature meant me to be a good man, one of the better kind and as you see, I am not so.
Are you a villain then, sir?
I'm a trite commonplace sinner, hackneyed in all the dissipations that the rich and worthless try to put on life.  When I was your age, fate dealt me a blow. I was - cursed with a burden to carry through life. I lacked the wisdom to remain cool and I turned desperate. Dread remorse, Miss Eyre. It is the poison of life.
And since happiness is denied me, I've a right to get pleasure in its stead. And I will get it, cost what it may.
Then you'll degenerate still more.
Are you preaching to me? Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 49.
I'm reminding you of your own words; remorse is the poison of life.
But, Miss Eyre, if the pleasure I was seeking was sweet and fresh; if it was an inspiration; if it wore the robes of an angel of light... what then?
I don't know. To speak truth, I don't understand you at all.
My heart has long been a charnel house. Perhaps it'll transform into a shrine.
Sir, I find the conversation has got out of my depth.
You're afraid of me because I talk like a sphynx.
I'm not afraid.
Yes you are.
I've simply no wish to talk nonsense.
If you did it would be in such a grave, quiet manner that I would mistake it for sense. Do you never laugh, Miss Eyre?
Only rarely, perhaps. But you're not naturally austere, any more than I'm naturally vicious. I can see in you the glance of a curious sort of bird through the close set bars of a cage: a vivid, restless, resolute captive. Were it but free, it would soar. Cloud high.
Just as it turns to come down - that's when you hit it.
Mademoiselle has got to rest.
Because I start to win!
Have mercy, Adele. Play with Pilot for a while.
Is our game disturbing you, sir?
On the contrary. I like your game. I like this cold, hard day. I like Thornfield.
I've been arranging a point with my destiny, Miss Eyre. My destiny stood up there by that chimney, like one of the hags who appeared to Macbeth. 'You like Thornfield?' She said. 'Like it if you dare'. Well, I dare. It's felt like a plague house for years -
But Thornfield is my home and I shall like it!
Mademoiselle - Il faut jouer -
Get back! Keep at a distance child, or go in!
She's the daughter of an opera dancer, Celine Varens. Celine was a beauty and she professed to love me. Her ardour was so great that, ugly as I am, I believed myself her idol. So I installed in her in a hotel, gave her servants, gowns cashmeres, diamonds - in short, I was an idiot.
To fall in love, sir?
You've never felt love, have you Miss Eyre? Your soul still sleeps.
Does it?
You're still floating gently in the stream of life, unaware of the rocks ahead waiting to dash you to pieces.
Were you dashed to pieces, Mr Rochester?
Not by Celine. How can one ever truly love a woman one has paid for?  Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 52.
It ended when I visited her unexpectedly one night and caught her with her handsome, charmless lover. I overheard her waxing lyrical on all my defects - she was mercenary, heartless, senseless. The whole intoxication fell away like a dream. I left her money to support the little French floweret over there, whom she swore blind was mine. I see no proof of my grim paternity in her features; I think Pilot is more like me than she.
But you took her on?
Some years later, I heard that Celine had abandoned the brat, disappeared to Italy and left it destitute. So I lifted it from the mud and slime of Paris and brought it here, to grow up clean in the wholesome soil of an English country garden. My one good work in a sea of countless sins.
You listen, Miss Eyre, as if it was the most usual thing in the world for a man like me to tell stories of his opera-mistresses to an inexperienced girl like you. Adele?
Forgive me; for keeping Miss Eyre from your game for so long.
Who's there?
Wake up! Wake up! Sir!
Who's there?
It is I, Jane Eyre, sir.
What in the name of all the elves in Christendom have you done with me?
For heaven's sake get up. Somebody has plotted something; you must find out who. I'll light the lamp - Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 54.
Light the lamp at your peril.
I heard a laugh outside my door loud enough to wake me. I opened it. Someone was running towards the third floor.
And a candle was left burning in the middle of the floor. Shall I fetch Mrs Fairfax, sir?
What the deuce can she do?
Then I'll wake John and Martha.
Not at all. Stay here. You're shivering.
I have to go to the third floor. Don't make a sound. Sit there. I shan't be long.
Did you see anything when you opened your chamber door?
Only the candle on the ground. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 55.
But you heard a laugh?
Yes.
Have you heard that laugh before?
There's a woman who sews here; Grace Poole - She laughs in that way, I think.
Just so. Grace Poole - you have guessed it. Well, you're no talking fool; please say nothing about this.
BUT -
I will account for this state of affairs. Go back to your room and say nothing.
Yes, sir.  Good-night.
Is that how you're going to leave me?
You said I should go.
Jane, fire is a horrible death. You have saved my life. Don't walk past me as if we were strangers.
What am I to do then, sir?
At least... shake hands.
I have a pleasure in owing you my life.
There is no debt.
I knew you would do me good in some way. I saw it in your eyes when I first beheld you. Their expression did not - did not strike delight into my very inmost being so, for nothing. People talk of natural sympathies... You.
Good night then, sir.
So you will leave me?
I'm cold.
Go.
Good day to you, miss.
What's happened here?
 Only master reading in his bed last night.  Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 57.
Fell asleep with his candle lit and the curtains got on fire. Managed to put it out with the water from his stand. Did you not hear anything, miss?
I did. I heard a strange laugh.
It's hardly likely the master would laugh when he was in such danger. Perhaps you were dreaming.
I was not.
Then you didn't think of opening your door and looking out?
Has Mr Rochester not sent for us today?
Why, he's gone away. Were you not aware? He left after breakfast.
He's gone to The Leas, Mr Eshton's place, about ten miles from here. I believe Blanche Ingram is there. She's a great favourite of his.
Oh?
I saw her two years ago when Mr Rochester had a party here. Oh, she was a beauty; I daresay the most elegant girl I've ever seen. So tall, with raven hair cascading down her back; I don't know how she'd had it done. She sang a duet with Mr Rochester. They made a lovely harmony.  Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 58.
I was quite surprised he didn't make a proposal. Perhaps that is his intention now.
Qu'avez vous mademoiselle?
 Nothing. Speak in English, please.
Thank you, girls. You may go.
Do you find the work too hard?
Not at all. I'm getting on very well.
Do you feel the solitude an oppression?
I hardly have time to notice it.
Then perhaps your accommodations have disappointed you. They are in truth scanty enough - Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 59.
A few months ago I had nothing. I was wretched. Now I have a home and work; free and honest. I wonder at the goodness of God and at the generosity of my friends.
What you had left before I met you, I don't know. But I counsel you to resist firmly every temptation to look back.
It's what I mean to do.
We can overcome every kind of human weakness. A year ago I was myself intensely miserable. I considered my life was so wretched that it must be changed - or I would die. After a season of darkness and struggling, light broke. I heard my call from God. Put your trust in him, Jane. Let him lead you to your future.
Thank you.
Why were you intensely miserable?
A year ago, I was weak enough to fall in love.
Don't pity me; I have no compassion whatsoever for you. I regarded this love as a fever of the flesh; not a thing that would ever touch my soul. I scorned the weakness, fought hard against it - and won.
I could have listened to temptation, sunk down in the silken snare and known a feverish and delusive bliss. I could have squandered my future upon it.
You could have been happy.
A slave in a fool's paradise? I'd rather my life had purpose -
Is this yours?
Yes.
What's the matter?
Nothing in the world.
Good night.
He's back in three days he says - heavens that's Thursday - and not alone. He gives directions to prepare all the best rooms. I'm to get more staff from the George Inn. The ladies will bring their maids, the gentlemen, valets. We must accommodate them all. Supplies to be got; linen, the MATTRESSES -
I'll get started. I'll go to the George. No, I'll tell Martha...
May I assist you, Mrs Fairfax?
She gets good wages, I'd guess?
Wish I had as good; not one fifth what Mrs Poole receives.
And she's laying it all by. I shouldn't wonder if she's saved enough to keep her independent.
She's a good hand, I daresay.
Not everyone could do it, that's for sure, not even for the money.
No wonder the master relies on HER - Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 62.
Doesn't she know?
They're here! They're here!
Thank you.
Excuse me, miss.
Good evening.
May I?
What is it, darling?
She sing like Maman.
Tonight. He wants you both in the drawing room after dinner.
Not me, surely.
It's his particular wish.
He was being polite.
I'm instructed to tell you that if you resist, he'll come up and get you himself. You needn't stay long. Just let him see you and then slip away. Don't worry; no one'll look at you.
May I present Miss Adele Varens?
Bon jour, mesdames, monsieurs.
Why, what a little puppet.
 Is this your ward, Mr Rochester?
Yes.
 What a love of a child.
I thought you weren't fond of children?
You're right; I'm not.
Then what induced you to take charge of that little doll?
She was left on my hands.
Why don't you send her to school?
She has a governess.
You should hear mamma on the chapter of governesses. I had half a dozen in my day - all detestable, ridiculous incubi - were they not, mamma?
Did you speak, my lily flower?
I said governesses.
Oh, don't mention them; the very word makes me nervous! I've suffered a martyrdom from their incompetence and caprice. I thank heaven we're now done with them.
I have just one word to say of the whole tribe; nuisance.
We shall have music - and new subject, if you please. Signor Eduardo, what shall it be?
Donna Bianca, I give you beauty.
Beauty? Why there's nothing new to be said. I give you back male beauty. Mamma, what's your idea of male beauty?
My son, of course.
Hear hear.
Oh, Tedo's quite typical of the young men of today. They're so absorbed in the pursuit of fashion that they've forgotten how to be men at all. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 66.
I say -
A woman who neglects herself is a blot on humanity. But a man should pay no heed to his looks.  A man should possess only strength and valour. He could be a gentleman or a highwayman. His beauty lies in his power.
So a Levantine pirate would do for you?
 As long as he resembled you.
I am serious. To my mind, a man is nothing without a spice of the devil in him.
Why did you leave the room?
I am tired, sir.
Why didn't you come and speak to me? I haven't seen you for weeks. It would have been normal and polite to wish me good evening.
You seemed engaged, sir.
What have you been doing while I've been gone?
Teaching Adele.
You look pale. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 67.
I am well.
You're depressed; your eyes are shining with tears. What's the meaning of this?
A gentleman has arrived to see you, sir.
Who?
He says he's travelled a long way, from Spanish Town, Jamaica -
And indeed I think he must have come from some hot country because he won't take off his coat.
Spanish Town...
Mr Richard Mason. He says you're old friends. I've put him in the morning room.
Have I done wrong?
Not at all. Please tell him I'll see him directly.
Oh Jane - Jane. This is a blow.
Can I help you sir?
Jane, if all those people came and spat at me, what would you do?
Turn them out of the room sir, if I could.
And if they cast you out for adhering to me?
I should care nothing about it.
You'd dare censure for my sake?
For the sake of any friend who deserved it.
Fairfax...
Richard. How the devil are you?
He is yours.
Help! Rochester, for God's sake come!
Oh what is it?
Who is hurt?
Where the devil is Rochester?
I'm here, be composed.
What awful event has taken place?
A servant has had a nightmare, that's all. She's an excitable, nervous person and has taken a fit with fright.
Now I must see you back into your rooms because until the house is settled, she can't be properly looked after. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 70.
Is there anything I might do?
Miss Ingram, ladies, please return to your nests like the doves that you are. You'll take cold for certain if you stay in this icy gallery any longer.
Come this way. Make no noise.
Be steady. I need you.
Wait.
Thank you, Mrs Poole.
Here. Bring the candle.
Am I dying?
No.
She bit me - while the knife was in - Bit me - Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 71.
It was folly to attempt the interview tonight and alone.
I thought I might have done some good.
It makes me impatient to hear you.
She sucked the blood. Said she'd drain me - like a vampire -
Think of her as dead, dead and buried. Say nothing!
I am going for a doctor. I must leave you here with him. Sponge the blood away when it returns. Give him water if he wants it. Do not speak to him for any reason. And Richard - on pain of death - do not speak to her.
I only wish I could have got here sooner. He'd not have bled so much.
Jane, make sure the way is clear.
I'll ride over tomorrow to see how you do. Goodbye, Richard.
Fairfax - Let her treated as tenderly as may be -
I do my best and have done it and will do it!
Come, Jane. That house is a dungeon, don't you feel it?
It seems to me a splendid mansion, sir.
It is slime and cobwebs.
Will Grace Poole stay here now?
Oh yes, don't trouble your head about her.
But sir -
Grace Poole is not the danger.
You've noticed my tender feelings for Miss Ingram? Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 73.
Yes sir.
Keep vigil with me again, the night before I marry. For now you've met my lovely one and you know her. She's a rare one, isn't she?
Yes sir.
A strapper, a real strapper; big and buxom...
I'd do anything for you sir, anything that was right.
 And if I ever bid you do what was wrong, you'd turn to me, quiet and pale and say 'I cannot do it.' And you'd be as immutable as a fixed star.
That's for the look you had on your face.
Excuse me, sir.
Does that creeping creature want you?
If you please, I want leave of absence for a week or two.
What to do?
This is from my old nurse, Bessie. She says my cousin John Reed is dead. He ruined himself and has committed suicide. The news has so shocked his mother, my Aunt, that it's brought on a stroke.
What good can you do her?
She's been asking for me. I parted from her very badly and I can't neglect her wishes now.
Promise me you won't stay long.
Sir, it seems you are soon to be married.
What of it?
Adele should go to school.
To get her out of my bride's way who might otherwise trample her?
And I must seek another situation. I intend to advertise. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 75.
At your peril you advertise. Trust it to me. I'll find you a good situation in time.
And sir? Forgive me but I have had no wages as yet.
How much do I owe you?
Fifteen pounds.
Here's fifty.
That's too much.
Take your wages.
I cannot.
Then I only have a ten.
 Now you owe me five.
Just so. Come back for it quickly. Meantime, I shall safeguard it in here.
Do you trust me to keep it, Jane?
 Not a whit, sir. You are not to be trusted at all.
Bless you! - I knew you'd come.
Bessie... I'm not too late? How is Mrs Reed?
She may linger yet a while. She's spoken of you daily. At first we couldn't tell what she was saying but when her speech came clear we heard 'Jane Eyre, get Jane Eyre.'
Shall I see her now?
I'll take you up directly. But look at you. What a lady you've become. Why you're almost pretty.
Aunt Reed? It is Jane Eyre. You sent for me, and here I am.
No one knows the trouble I have with that child. Such a burden. Left on my hands. Speaking to me like a fiend. The fever at Lowood. She should have died!
Why do you hate her so?
Her mother. Reed's sister - his beloved. When news came of her death he wept like a fool. Sent for the baby. Sickly thing - not strong like mine. But Reed loved it. Kept it by his bed. Made me vow to bring the creature up. Why did he not love mine? Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 77.
Who are you?
I am Jane Eyre, Aunt.
You. Is there no one in the room?
We are alone.
I've twice done you wrong. I broke the vow I made to Reed -
Please, don't think of it -
I am dying; I must get it out!
Open that box. Take out the letter. Read it.
'Madam, will you have the goodness to send me the address of my niece, Jane Eyre. I desire her to come to me at Madeira. Fortune has blessed my endeavours and as I am childless I wish to adopt her and bequeath her at my death whatever I may have to leave. Yours, John Eyre, Madeira.'
This is dated three years ago. Why did I never hear of it?
Because I wrote and told him you had died of typhus at Lowood school. You fury. You were born to be my torment. I'll never forget how you turned on me and raged.  Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 78.
You called the names of the dead down upon me. I was afraid.
Forgive me.
You cursed me.
I would have loved you if you'd let me.
My life has been cursed.
Please, let us be reconciled.
Then love me or hate me as you will. You have my full and free forgiveness. Now ask for God's - and be at peace.
My mother.
Why ever was I so afraid?
My dear uncle, some years ago, my Aunt Reed mistakenly informed you that I had died. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 79.
I am writing to tell you that I am very much alive and living at Thornfield Hall, where I am currently governess to the ward of Mr Edward Fairfax Rochester -
There you are.
Just like one of your tricks to steal into your home along with the twilight. Where the deuce have you been this last month?
I have been with my aunt sir, who is dead.
A true Janian reply. If I dared I'd touch you, to see if you were real...
Go home - stay your wandering feet at a friend's threshold.
Thank you Mr Rochester. I'm strangely glad to get back again to you. Wherever you are is my home.
We're expecting the announcement very soon. He went down to London only last week to buy her a new carriage.
Then we must accept it. He'll soon bring home his bride.
Come and look at this fellow, Jane.
Look at his wings. He looks West Indian - I have never seen one like him, here. There; flown.
Thornfield is a pleasant place in summer, isn't it?
I'll be sad to leave it.
Yes, but it can't be helped. I soon hope to be a bridegroom.
Have you found me a new situation, sir?
A situation, yes of course. It's the least I can do for a faithful paid subordinate such as yourself. You're to undertake the education of the five daughters of Mrs Dionysus O'Gall of Bitternut Lodge, Connaught. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 81.
Connaught?
You'll like Ireland. They're such warm-hearted people, they say.
It is a long way away, sir.
From what?
From here. From you.
We've been good friends, Jane haven't we? But with the Irish sea between us you'd soon forget me.
I wish I could. I wish I'd never come here. I love Thornfield - I've lived a full life here. I've not been trampled on or petrified or buried with inferior minds. I've talked face to face with what I reverence, with what I delight in. I've known you Mr Rochester -
Then why must you be torn from me?
Because of your bride.
I have no bride.
But you will have.
Yes, I will.
Then I must go.
You must stay.
Do you think I could stay to become nothing to you? Am I an automaton, a machine without feelings?  Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 82.
Do you think that because I am poor, obscure, plain and little that I am soulless and heartless?
JANE -
I have as much soul as you and full as much heart. I'm not speaking to you through mortal flesh. It's my spirit that addresses your spirit as if we'd passed through the grave and stood at God's feet, equal - as we are.
As we are.
Let me go.
NO -
I'm a free human being with an independent will, which I now exert to leave you.
Then let your will decide your destiny. I offer you my hand, my heart and a share of all this.
I ask you to pass through life at my side. Jane, you are my equal and my likeness. It is you I intend to marry.
Are you mocking me?
Do you doubt me?
Entirely. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 83.
You have no faith in me?
Not a whit.
You little sceptic.
Your bride is Miss Ingram -
What love have I for Miss Ingram? What love has she for me? I caused a rumour to reach her that my fortune was lost and got instant coldness. I wanted to make you jealous, to move you to love me. It's you - you strange, unearthly thing. I love you as my own flesh. You - poor and obscure as you are - please accept me as your husband.
Are you in earnest?
I must have you for my own.
You wish me to be your wife?
I swear it.
You love me.
I do.
Then sir, I will marry you.
It will atone. It will atone.
I must go.
Good night. Good night.
Good night.
Have you accepted him?
Yes.
Well I never would have thought.
Am I a monster? Is it so impossible that Mr Rochester should love me?
No, I've long noticed that you were a sort of pet of his. But you're so young and so little acquainted with men. I don't want to grieve you child, but let me put you on your guard. Gentlemen in his position... Let's just say they're not accustomed to marry their governesses. Until you are wed, distrust yourself as well as him. Please, keep him at a distance -
Thank you. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 85.
Is this my pale elf? This sunny faced girl with the radiant eyes?
It is I, Jane Eyre sir.
Soon to be Jane Rochester.
It can never be, sir. Human beings were not meant to enjoy complete happiness on this earth. It's too much like a fairy tale.
 Let the fairy tale begin.
This morning I wrote to my banker in London to send certain jewels. In a day or two I hope to pour them into you lap -
Oh, no sir -
I will put the diamond chain around your neck myself -
I don't want jewels -
I'll dress you in these satins -
Then you won't know me. I'll not be Jane Eyre any longer but an ape in a harlequin's jacket. Put them away.
Well for cool native impudence and pure innate pride, you haven't your equal.
I'm naturally proud. And hard and flinty. You ought to know what sort of bargain you've made while you've still got time to rescind it. I want only one thing from you, Mr Rochester.
And what's that?
Your regard.
It's your time now, little tyrant but it'll soon be mine and when I have seized you, to have and to hold, I'll attach you to a chain, like this...
Adele?
Adele, is that you? Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 87.
What is it?
I'm afraid.
Jane, this is the only explanation. It must have been half-dream, half- reality. A woman did enter your room last night and that woman was - must have been - Grace Poole - Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 88.
It was not Grace Poole.
You know how strange she is. What did she do to me? To Mason? In a state between sleeping and waking -
I was not asleep.
You noticed her entrance and her actions but you've ascribed to her an appearance different from her own. That was your nightmare -
I know what I saw.
I see you'd ask why I keep such a woman in my house. When we've been married a year and a day, I promise I'll tell you. Are you satisfied Jane? Do you accept my solution?
Dear God. It was only the veil...
Mademoiselle...
Please, you must look.
Come.
I require and charge you both, as ye will answer at the dreadful day of judgement when the secrets of all hearts shall be revealed, that if either of you know any impediment why ye may not be lawfully joined together in matrimony, ye do now confess it.
Edward Fairfax Rochester, do you TAKE -
The marriage cannot go on. I declare the existence of an impediment.
Proceed. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 90.
The ceremony is quite broken off. An insuperable impediment to this marriage exists.
Proceed.
Mr Rochester has a wife now living.
 Where is your proof?
I affirm and can prove that Edward Fairfax Rochester was fifteen years ago married to my sister, Bertha Antoinetta Mason at St James church, Spanish Town, Jamaica.
The record of the marriage will be found in the register of that church - a copy of it is now in my possession. Signed, Richard Mason.
That does not prove that my wife is still living.
She was living two months ago.
How do you know?
I have a witness to the fact.
Produce him or go to hell.
Good God -
Sir, you are in a sacred place -
What have you to say?
She is at Thornfield Hall. I saw her there in April. I'm her brother.
This girl knew nothing. She thought all was fair and legal. She never dreamt she was going to be entrapped into a feigned union with a defrauded wretch.
Come, Jane, come all of you and meet Mrs Poole's charming patient. Come and meet my wife.
Get back! Do not come near! Go, all of you - keep your congratulations - they come fifteen years too late!
Sir, you can't be bringing folk in here. It's madness.
This clothed hyena is my wife.
I was duped into marriage with this lunatic fifteen years ago.
Let us go. We have seen enough.
My own demon, Bertha.
You, madam, are clearly not to blame. Your uncle will be glad to hear it.
You wrote to your uncle, did you not? To inform him you were going to marry Mr Rochester? Mr Mason was staying with him when your letter came.
Mr John Eyre has been the Madeira correspondent of the Mason trading house for some years. You can imagine his distress when Mason revealed the real state of matters.
He would have come himself but I'm sad to tell you that his health is in mortal decline. He implored Mr Mason to prevent this false marriage and referred him to me for assistance. I only hope that he survives long enough to hear that you are safe.
Thank you.
Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 94.
JANE - Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 95.
Five minutes more of that death- like hush and I'd have forced the lock.
No tears. Your heart has been weeping blood. Forgive me.
How could I? I am a worthless sinner. Don't spare me. Rain your tears up on me.
I cannot.
I deserve a hail of fire.
I'm tired and sick. I need some water.
How are you now?
Much better, sir. I shall be well again soon.
I know you. You are thinking. Talking is no use; you are thinking how to act. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 96.
All is changed, sir. I must change too.
Yes. There is no doubt that we both must change. I was wrong ever to keep you here; this narrow stone vault with its one real fiend. I'll shut it up. I'll pay Mrs Poole two hundred a year to care for its inmate and then no one will be harmed when she is prompted to burn people, to stab them, to bite the flesh from their bones -
Sir - you speak of her with hate - it is cruel. She cannot help being mad.
It's not because she's mad that I hate her. If you were mad do you think that I'd hate you?
I do.
Then you know nothing about me, nothing about the way I love. Your mind is my treasure - and if it were broken it would be my treasure still. You are my sympathy, my better self, my angel. I will wrap my whole existence round you. Let us leave here tomorrow. Come with me - as my wife.
No.
I'll pledge you my fidelity -
You can't.
You'll live a happy, most innocent life -
I must leave you, sir.
Don't you love me?
I do love you - But I mustn't show it or speak it ever again. I must begin a new existence - strange scenes among strange faces. I must part from you.
Must be a part of me; that's what you mean. You are my wife, Jane. In truth -
You have a wife already.
I was tricked, duped into wedlock with that demon-hate, that harlot, that succubus upstairs. My father wanted her money and so I was sent to Spanish Town and the match was made. I hardly spoke with her. I was dazzled, ignorant, raw. My senses were besotted and I married her - gross, grovelling mole-eyed blockhead that I was.
I lived with her for four years. She dragged me through all the degrading agonies which attend those bound to the intemperate and unchaste. Her excesses developed germs of madness and the doctors shut her up. One night, unable to bear her screaming hate and knowing I could never be rid of her, I put a gun to my head to kill myself.
I would have pulled the trigger, died in that tropical place but for a breeze which blew in from the sea and smelt of home. With it, I came to my senses. Bertha Antoinetta Mason had abused my long suffering, sullied my name, outraged my honour and blighted my youth. It was enough. At that moment, as I decided to live, she ceased to be my wife.  Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 98.
Only my father and brother knew of the marriage and by then they were both dead. I let my connection with her be buried in oblivion and I brought her here. I have seen that she's cared for as her condition demands and that is all that God and humanity asks.
I earnestly pity you, sir.
Jane, it's not pity that I see in your face. It's not pity -
Do not say it -
It is love.
STOP -
I was wrong to deceive you. It was cowardly. I should have appealed to your spirit - as I do now - should have opened my life, described my hunger for a better existence - shown you my chains. I give you my life. I give you my pledge. Please, be my wife.
I can not.
You would be my equal.
How?
I would make it so.
You once told me that hiring a mistress is the next worse thing to buying a slave.
Not my mistress - Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 99.
I would not degrade you by having you live with a slave.
I said wife, my wife -
Do you really mean to leave me?
I do.
Jane...
Do you mean it now?
I do.
And now?
Oh Jane...
What friends would you offend by living with me? Who would be injured? Who would care?
I would.
Jane, it would not be wicked to love me...
It would be to obey you. I care for myself. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 100.
The more alone, the more friendless, unsustained I am, the more I must respect myself -
Will you listen to me?
I must listen to myself -
Will you hear reason?
Let me go -
Because if you won't I'll try violence.
I could bend you with my finger and thumb; a mere reed you feel in my hands.
But your eye; resolute, free. What ever I do with this cage I cannot get at you. And it is you, soul, that I want. Why don't you come of your own free will here, to my heart? Oh come, Jane, come -
 God help me!
You have never called me by my name. My name is Edward.
Edward.
Jane.
Mr St John - What on earth brings you away from your hearth on a night like this? Has anything happened? There's no bad news I hope?
How easily alarmed you are. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 102.
The snow was up to my waist at one point.
You are recklessly rash about your own health.
Nonsense.
Why are you come?
An inhospitable question.
I mean on a night like this -
I got tired of my mute books and empty rooms. Besides I've been told half a story and I'm most impatient to find out the end.
Please...
Twenty years ago, a poor curate fell in love with a rich man's daughter and married her. She was disowned by her family and two years later the rash pair were both dead. They left a daughter which charity received into her lap - as cold as that snow drift I almost stuck fast in. Charity carried the friendless thing to the house of its rich maternal relations. It was reared by an aunt-in-law; I come to names now - Mrs Reed of Gateshead.
Mrs Reed kept the orphan ten years and at the end of that time she was sent to Lowood school.  Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 103.
It seems her career there was very honourable. She became a teacher like yourself, and left it, like yourself, to be a governess. She undertook the education of the ward of a certain Mr Rochester -
Mr Rivers! -
I can guess your feelings but hear me to the end. Of Mr Rochester's character I know nothing but he professed to offer honourable marriage to this young girl and at the very altar she discovered that he had a wife yet alive. His subsequent conduct is a matter of pure conjecture but when the governess was enquired after it was discovered that she had fled Thornfield Hall and no trace of her has since been found. Now isn't that an odd tale?
Since you know so much, perhaps you can tell me how he is.
Who?
Mr Rochester; how is he?
I'm ignorant of all concerning him.
Well, since you won't ask the governess's name, I must tell you. I have it written down here in black and white.
A solicitor named Briggs wrote to me of a Jane Eyre. I knew a Jane Elliott. This paper resolved my suspicion into certainty. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 104.
The solicitor - Mr Briggs - does he have any news of Mr Rochester?
Are you not going to enquire why he has gone to such lengths to find you?
What does he want with me?
Merely to tell you that your uncle, Mr John Eyre of Madeira, is dead; that he has left you all his property and that you are now rich.
What?
You are rich; quite an heiress.
Your fortune is vested in the English funds; Briggs has the will and all the necessary documents. You can enter on immediate possession.
Your forehead unbends at last; I thought you were turning to stone. Perhaps now you will ask how much you are worth.
How much am I worth?
Oh a trifle. Twenty thousand pounds - but what of that?
Twenty thousand pounds?
If you'd committed a murder and I'd found you out, you could scarcely look more aghast.
There must be some mistake. It's two thousand, surely.
It's twenty. You look desperately miserable about it, I must say.
Why did Mr Briggs write to you?
You see, that is the strange thing. It makes me wonder what power or providence led you to our door. Your name is Jane Eyre.
Yes.
Then I'm you namesake. I was christened St John Eyre Rivers.
St John Eyre -
My mother had two brothers, one was a clergyman, your father, the other was John Eyre of Madeira. Mr Briggs wrote to inform us that the clergyman's daughter was lost. I have been able to find her out; that is all.
Your mother was my father's sister?
Yes.
My uncle John was your uncle John?
That is correct. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 106.
So you, Diana and Mary -
We are cousins, yes.
Oh, I am glad! - I am glad!
Here you are neglecting essential points to pursue trifles. You were utterly downhearted when I told you that you were rich and now, for a matter of no moment, you are deliriously happy.
Of no moment? You have sisters and maybe don't care for a cousin but I have nobody. I have been alone, always. And now three relations are born into my world full grown. Oh, I am glad. You, who saved my life -
You must try to tranquillise your feelings.
Write to Diana and Mary. Tell them to hand in notice and come home. They will have five thousand each and so will you.
I've told you the news too quickly. You're confused.
Don't put me out of patience, cousin. I am rational enough. Twenty thousand divided equally between the nieces and nephews of our uncle, gives five to each.
This is acting on first impulse. You don't know what it is to have WEALTH - Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 107.
And you cannot imagine - family - I never had a home. I never had brothers and sisters -
You are not reluctant to own me, are you?
Jane, I will be your brother.
Good night.
You call Jane your sister but you don't treat her as such. You should kiss her too.
Di, you are very provoking.
Good night.
You are wasted here.
Am I not being useful?
You should look beyond Moor House, beyond the selfish calm and comfort of affluence.
Beyond to what?
I go to India in six weeks.
So soon? -
I can see what your gifts are and why they were given. Come with me.
God and nature intended you for a missionary's wife. You are formed for labour not for love. I want to claim you - not for my pleasure but for God's service.
I'm not fit for it. I have no vocation.
You're far too humble. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 109.
St John have mercy. I feel my mind shrinking -
Don't be afraid. You are diligent, faithful, docile, courageous, gentle and heroic. Cease to mistrust yourself. I trust you unreservedly. Let me give you time to think. But know this; in you, I recognise a fellow soul, a soul that would revel in the flame and excitement of sacrifice.
I used to long for a life of action, to overleap the horizon, to move in the world of men. Maybe God is giving me this. And what is there for me here? Pain and longing for what can't be. I don't know how long I would survive in India. My frame isn't strong. But I'll go with you, if I may go free.
Free?
You and I had better not marry.
Why not?
Because I am your sister.
But you'll go with me.
Conditionally - as your curate. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 110.
Jane, I don't need a curate; I need a wife.
I must have my heart and mind free, my own self to turn to. I couldn't become part of you -
A part of me you must become or the whole bargain is void. How can I, a man not yet thirty take out to India a girl of nineteen, unless she is my wife? Don't offer God half a sacrifice. He must have all. And undoubtedly enough of love would follow to make the union right, even in your eyes.
Enough of love?
Yes, quite enough.
St John, I scorn your idea of love. I scorn the counterfeit sentiment you offer and I scorn you when you offer it!
I've uttered nothing that deserves scorn.
Forgive me but the very name of love is an apple of discord between us. My dear cousin, please abandon your scheme of marriage.
No; and if you reject it, it's not me you deny but God.
Do not be angry with me please. It makes me wretched. I want us to be friends. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 111.
We are friends. I hope we can be more.
I cannot come as your wife.
Why this refusal? It makes no sense!
If I were to marry you, you'd kill me. You're killing me now.
 I'd kill you? I am killing you? Your words are violent, unfeminine and untrue -
You'd kill me without drawing any blood or receiving on your conscience any stain of crime.
What nonsense is this?
You'd experience no pain - but I tell you it would kill me!
Why?
Because I would inevitably come to conceive love for you, because you are so talented and good, because there is such grandeur in your look. You wouldn't want this strange and torturing love; if I showed it you would find it unbecoming. And my lot would be wretched.
 Jane...
You're a good man, but you forget the feelings of little people. We'd better keep out of your way lest you trample us. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 112.
I wouldn't trample you. You'd walk at my side towards God's altar. He'd be your solace, heaven your reward. We seek to do the greatest work, to open death's gates, to save souls. Love God Jane, love God.
Give up your heart to Him. He is love.
If I were sure; if I were certain -
Jane! Jane! Jane!
Oh God, what is it?
What have you heard? What can you see?
I am coming!
Wait for me!
Where are you?
They sent me from the inn. I've been up at the house -
Come in, come in.
Is he dead?
No, no. Mr Rochester still lives.
Tell me - please -
Why did you run away in the night like that? I would have helped. I would have helped.
He sought you as if you were a lost and precious jewel. He didn't rest. And as days turned into weeks and no word came, he grew quite savage in his disappointment.
He stayed at Thornfield?
Didn't leave the house...
Shut himself up like a hermit. He only went out at night, when he walked like a ghost through the grounds.
He'd have no one near him. Adele was sent off to school. He placed me here. Only John and Martha stayed - and Mrs Poole of course.
It was harvest time when it happened. No one knows how she got out.
My theory is that when Mrs Poole was asleep, having taken too much of the gin and water...
... The mad lady must have stolen her keys and let herself out.
Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 116.
Antoinetta?
He didn't leave the house until everyone was out. Some say it was a just judgement on him for having her confined there all those years but for my part, I pity him.
He's alive child, but many think he'd be better off dead. Jane Eyre adapted by Moira Buffini March 2008 117.
Why?
When he was taken out from under the ruins, a beam had fallen in such a way as to protect him, partly - but his eye was taken out and his left hand so crushed that he lost it. The other eye inflamed and - he is blind. He's blind.
I know... it's a terrible thing.
I had dreaded worse. I'd dreaded he was mad.
Where is he?
I can see the candles, Martha, at your side like a luminous glow. And the fire; a red haze.
Martha?
Martha, is that you?
Martha is in the kitchen, sir.
Who's there?
Pilot knows me. Will you have some more water? I've spilt half the glass.
If you are real, touch me.
Her hand, her shape, her size.
And her voice.
Jane Eyre - Jane Eyre.
My Edward, I am Jane Eyre: I have found you out. I am come back to you.
You're not lying dead in some ditch? Not an outcast among strangers?
I've been with good people; far better than you, quite more refined and exalted.
 She insults me -
And I'm an independent woman. My uncle in Madeira died and left me five thousand pounds -
This is real. This is practical.
I'm here. I'm home. I am where I love best.
You're altogether a human being, Jane?
I conscientiously believe so, sir.
But I see that you're turning into a lion. It's time someone undertook to rehumanise you.
I'm a sightless block -
I know.
And the worst of it is, I'm in danger of loving you too well for this, and making too much of you.
Am I hideous, Jane?
Very. But you always were, you know.
