In the third millennium, the world... changed.
Climate. Nations. Borders. All were in upheaval. Humanity itself turned as violent as the planet. Civilization threatened to collapse. And then... a solution was found. The crumbling, teetering legal system was merged with the overburdened police, creating a powerful and efficient hybrid. Trained equally in jurisprudence and combat, these new guardians of Society could dispense both justice and punishment. They were police, jury and executioner, all in one. They were... The Judges.
thru OMITTED thru
Heavenly Haven. Sounds nice.
 --oming soon, the Heavenly Haven Pocket Park. Bringing fresh air and recreation to your lives. Another design for better living from the Mega-City Council. Coming soon, the Heavenly Haven Pocket Park. Bringing fresh air...
Surrounding the lot on all four sides are GIANT TENEMENTS. Weary, hungry and dirty RESIDENTS  scurry by on (X; errands both lldegaannot.
Coming soon, the Heavenly Haven Law Enforcement Barracks, bringing surveillance and security to your lives. Another design for better living from the Mega City Council. lI REVERSE ANGLE 12 As this sinks in on the tenement residents.
Our Park! They stole our park!
Lying bastards!
Lying Judges! A ER::! gets tossed into the VIDEO SCREEN. As it SPARKS, the residents swarm, knocking it over - then the chain link fence around the lot starts to shake, heave and collapse -
Hey, Homies. The rezzies are going mental.
_..ru OMITTED thru
Right down there... I think that's Heavenly Haven. NC such luck. The craft BANKS.
Still better than prison. BR.'.-TA':-TAT! Suddenly GUNFIRE erupts all around him. He looks
I'r SE ER.AL WINDOWS - HIS P . O . V . 20 As more and more frustrated residents OPEN FIRE at anything and everything.
Did you see that! What a fucking shot! What a fucking shot - ! Reggie h -fives him. Then an overhead THUD makes them look up a- the HEATING VENT. Zed reaches up - yanks off the grate -
What do we have here? You a Judge, little man? The others laugh at the concept.
Me, a Judge, no, no -
If you're a rezzie, then why are you hiding? This is a block war, man! They grab him, playing roughly with him.
You gonna stand up for your block, ain't ya?
Look, I'm out on parole - If I get into any trouble my ass is right back in Aspen - CLICK. Zed's gun is in his face. FERGIE  Let's go, Haven, Let's go Haven, Haven all the way - BANANA CLIPS are shoved into his hands along with boxes of :artridaes.
Reload, dipshit. BULLETS rip through the windows here. Fergie ducks, _er-_fied... drops the bullets.
Take cover!
 This isn't a Sim, Rookie! Stand down and wait for back up!  In position outside Heavenly Haven. Pinned down by fire from upper floors.
Fire is coming from Level Y, repeat Y. Request back-up, nearest Judge! The map BEEPS, shows a route. The hand moves to the THROTTLE.
The bike parts the flames like a curtain, SMASHES DOWN right in the middle of all the chaos. The Rider gets off.
That's our back-up? He's a sitting duck out there. You'd think he wants them to see him. Hershey smiles ruefully.
If that's who I think it is... he does.
Fuck. That's Judge Dredd. We gotta surrender while we can-- He starts to raise his gun over his head. Zed smacks him in the yaw with his own weapon.
You chickenshit bowab! He's gonna surrender to us. And then we'll blow his brains out. . Come and get us, Dredd! Zed FIRES out the window. Reggie happily joins, then the others. Finally Twist shrugs, FIRES too.
More ammo! A terrified Fergie hands him a clip.
Down! You crazy futz - !
He's firing a 64 laze pumper from six hundred feet. He couldn't hit me if I painted a bull's eye on my ass.
You - last. Dredd pushes Brisco behind Hershey. Turns toward Heavenly as re draws his massive LAWGIVER HANDGUN. Dredd speaks into the ::ny computer in the breech as he aims at the door.
Grenade. :'BccM! The round knocks the steel door off its hinges. Dredd r:zxs :z aside and the Judges enter.
Delicious and healthful ration packs, piping hot and ready to eat..!
No. There.
The squatters here are so busy FIRING their own guns out the window they don't SEE the CIRCLE OF BULLET HOLES that carve an oper.;ng above their heads! With a CRASH, the section of ceiling FALLS IN - Dredd rides it down, FIRING!
His shots catch most of the shooters by surprise. The few survivors throw down their weapons.
This room is pacified. mcves carefully through the smoke. Behind him, Hershey and
-ump down to the floor, check the bodies. Hershey cuffs :-::se s=__: alive.
This one's mine!
No! Dredd moves to stop him but he's too far away. Brisco kicks the door open -
This room is under-- BUDDA BUDDA BUDDA! Brisco is blown backwards off his feet.
You're all under arrest. Will you surrender, or would you like your trials now? 7ne', look at him for a moment - then BLAST away.
for cover, FIRES back - but one guy has a weapon as big as a :.a_nsaw, and it's decimating Dredd's hiding place.
Mega-City Municipal Code 334.8. Willful destruction of property. That's two years. WHAR:. He hits Zed in the face. Zed rocks, but stays up. He fries tc grab a nearby weapon, but Dredd kicks it away.
Code 11-5C. Illegal possession of assault weapons. Five years. Zed blocks Dredd's next blow; pulls him into a brutal embrace, slams Dredd against the walf. Again!
Code 7034-A. Resisting arrest. Twenty years. Dredd breaks free! Slams Zed once, twice. Zed flies back against the wall.
9804. Assault on a Judge with deadly intent.
 Don't tell me. Life. CAMERA REVEALS that Zed another weapon hidden behind his back. Now, he goes for it!
No... Death. He FIRES at the same moment as Zed! Zed's shot hits Dredd's ARMOR, pings off. Dredd's shot hits Zed's heart.
Court is adjourned.
I was supposed to watch out for him.
He made the mistake. Not you. Dredd cocks his head, listening. Somehow in the din and confusion he has heard something. He turns.
Ummm, umm, yumm! Healthful and nutritious food rations, ready to eat! Dredd suddenly pushes forward in the crowd. Hershey follows. She watches, puzzled, as he steps in the automaton's path, takes an assault rifle from another Judge and AIMS it!
 The guide wire in the floor isn't working.  Five! Four!
Ah, just put your credit in your selection and - credit in the slot and-and - shit! The robot stops. The jumble of food in back spills out and Fergie uncoils from the cramped interior, still holding the scarK r.a wires he was using to manipulate the machine.
Mega-City Municipal Code 1286.4: Willful sabotage of a public servo-droid. That's six months, citizen. He grabs Fergie, pushes him against the wall.
- Let's see your Unicard.
Come on, give me a break, Judge uh-.
FERGUSON, Herman. Forget six months: You've hacked into city droids, computers...  Cash machines, robot taxis... And you haven't even been out of jail for twenty four hours.
Five years? But - I - I had no choice, judge - He sees Dredd's impassive face, turns to Hershey's more sympathetic one.
They were killing each other up there, I had to get out! I only hacked the droid to save my life! It was the only way!
Not at all. You could have climbed out a window, worked your way down. Or found a turboshaft and shimmied down the cable.
Sixty stories? It woulda been suicide!
Maybe. But it would have been legal. I sentence you to five years in. Aspen Penitentiary. Case closed. Take him away. s-': protesting, Fergie is hauled away. Hershey looks at Dredd.
He might have been telling the truth. Haven't you ever heard of extenuating circumstances?
Yes. And cowardice isn't one of them.
My fellow Judges, have we forgotten the lessons of History?
A R epublic is a body politic that i s susceptible to many ills... from eni nuto anarchy. And the block wa r to d ay was a definite warning s i gn of - asser:bi\ REACTS as rowdily as the British Parliament.
- of your misguided policies as Urban Administrator!
Hold on, Judge McGruder - let's not blame the messenger! Judge Griffin
- Griffin has been trying to get us to swallow his crime package for two years now and I still have
UPROAR. We sense that the room is evenly divided. A GAVEL BANGS for order with a CRACK like thunder. Everyone quiets as quickly as schoolchildren..
Order, order! As presiding Justice, I only vote to break a tie. But I wish to address the question of Judge Griffin's crime package. Is there any objection?
This entire body owes its very existence to you, Chief Justice.  I can ' t imagine anyone having an objection. CAMERA sweeps towards Fargo, passing over the MAP of North America etched on t h e great DAIS. Only a few lights stand out on all the conti nent: MEGA-CITY ONE; MEGA-CITY TWO; TEXAS CITY; and the ASPEN PENAL C OLONY. All the rest is labeled THE CURSED
Fargo stands, eyes blazing with intelligence and intensity. we sense t h at we are observing a Lion in Winter. And the lion can still roar.
This body is not the first assembly (' to think that more laws and fewer choices will bring peace and order. That delusion has been tried and failed before. If the citizens of Mega-City are demanding more control of their lives, that's not a threat - it's a signal! A signal to open the windows of our society and let it: breathe -  Not to bolt the door and throw away the key! My fellow Judges, I was barely in my teens when I put on this badge. When the time comes for me to take it off... let me do it. knowing that it stood for Freedom... and not for Repression. He sits down. Clearly he has changed the mood of the room.
Once again, Chief Justice,'you have served as a moral compass for all of us. I... withdraw my proposal.
--fifty three people hospitalized.
Some people say that to be a Judge on these mean streets is bound to have a certain dehumanizing effect, and that we should sympathize with the Judges. I agree. But the Mega- City Council apparently doesn't. To them, "dehumanization" isn't just a buzz word - it's a byword. And I'll show just how terrifyingly far they've taken that thought... tomorrow night.
 A rookie Judge died there, too. I guess he wasn't worth mentioning.
Things will get better, sir.
Chief Justice?
Four Summary Executions, Dredd. Were they necessary?
They were unavoidable, sir. Out there... that's the reality.
e make our own reality, Dredd. Maybe it ' s time for a new one. Although I doubt Judge Griffin would recognize a new reality if he arrested it himself.
With all due respect, sir, how can you say that when you spend most of your time - D edd breaks off; he's said too much. But Fargo won't let him she hook.
Most of my time where?
At the Academy... Sir.
Don't you mean at the Academy wiping Cadet's Asses? That is what they say in the squad room, isn't it?
It.. doesn't matter what they say, Sir. You're the.Chief Justice of Mega City. If rt weren't for you and the others like you, we wouldn't have our justice system. There isn't a Judge in Mega-City who doesn't want to follow in your footsteps.
I'm glad you feel that way, Dredd. Because starting tomorrow you're going to spend one day a week at the Academy... teaching. Dredd takes this in his stride.
I'd be honored. Unarmed combat, or marksmanship?
 Ethics. And as Dredd reacts, we
sma:: SEALED BOX with a THUMBCODE LOCK.
Miller. Warden.
Voice sample and thumbscan recognized. The DOOR OPENS. Miller turns to the guards. MILLER Wait here.
c "3 INT. RICO'S CELL - DAY 63 Miller steps inside. AUTOGUNS swivel toward him. "Read" his BADGE. BEEP. The autoguns swing away. The door CLOSES.
Hello, Warden.
Have you come for another... chat?
A short one, I'm afraid. Duty calls.
When you killed innocent people you went far beyond-'service. Rico stands. Moves toward the energy curtain. Glares at Miller.
"Innocent"? A meaningless word. The innocent exist only until they inevitably become perpetrators themselves. In the end, "Guilt" and "Innocence" are merely a matter of timing.
'You're insane.
Am I? When did you become a perpetrator? Was it the time you found money mysteriously transferred into your account? Or the time I was sentenced to death? You've been taking bribes for years, Warden. You're a criminal. And a stupid one: You don't even know who's paying you.
I don't want to know.
If ignorance is bliss, Warden, then you must be very blissful.
Your mysterious benefactor has sent you a package. M:.. .er speaks into a console before Rico's laser-guarded "cell.
Deactivate Shield. ENERGY CURTAIN drops. The autoguns on the wall swivel toward Rico. Miller moves onto the platform, hands over the package. Rico places his thumb on the lock and it OPENS.
The Ancient Puzzle, Miller: The One about the Meaning of Life.
It's over. And he AIMS the "puzzle". BLAM!
Voice not recognized. Security Breach. Autoguns targeting. panics. Scrambles for the door.
BOOM' BOOM! BOOM! He's cut down ten feet from the door.
Kevlar nine helmet and body armor. WIDEN. Dredd is LECTURING to a group of CADETS who hang on his every word. We're in a TRAINING AREA like the one "Q" ran in the Bond movies. Dredd turns. A TECH nods: Target ready. Dredd FIRES a barrage of bullets at a mannequin in Judge's gear. The bullets ricochet off. The class OOOHS and AHHS.
Yours, when you graduate.
 Lawgiver Two. Twenty five round sidearm with mission-variable voice programmed ammunition.
Yours, when you graduate.
Mark IV Lawmaster, improved model. With on-board cannon, vertical take off and landing,. flight capacity and 500 kilometer range. The head Tech gives thumbs up while the other techs step back. The class waits, expectant. The lead tech throws a REMOTE. SPARKS fly. The motor COUGHS, dies. The class GROANS. Dredd glares at the embarrassed technicians.
Yours... if they ever get it to work. LAUGHTER. Dredd moves to a lectern. Faces the class.
All of these things are nothing but toys. Bottom line, final word, end of the day, when you're alone in the dark... all that counts... is this. takes something from the lectern shelf, throws it down. It's all-but holy book: THE LAW.
And you will be alone. Because when you swear to uphold these ideals, you are sacrificing whatever chance you have for a Life. h T e': Frown; this is not what they expected to hear from a legend. They become increasingly unnerved.
For most of us t'here is only lonely death on the streets... or, for those few of us who survive to old age... the prouder loneliness of the Long Walk.
 Life, Liberty, and the Pursuitof Happiness. Old and noble ideas. But they are what we give to (Xi others... not what we will ever receive for ourselves. Class dismissed. The class breaks up on a definite low note.
Judge Hershey, the yearbook deadline is only a week away. Have you changed your mind?
Forget it, Olmeyer. I'm not gonna be the yearbook Centerfold!
It's not a centerfold, it's a calendar! And it won't be a tacky 3-D hologram. The yearbook is all classic print and 2-D. Here, let me show you a dummy - He s:ar::s to open the book. She slams it closed on his fingers.
No, let me show yoou a dummy. She turns his head so he can SEE his reflection. When he turns back - she's gone.
Judge Dredd? He looks at her, waiting.
I caught your lecture today. Do... do you really think that's what the cadets need to hear?
Well, I think your truth is relative. I have a personal life. I have lots-of friends.
Really. How long since you saw any of them?
You've only been on the street a year. You're still in denial.
It's not that bad.
How many married Judges do you know?
Uh, well, my class is young. None of them have found the right... person. e lust looks at her.
Has it really been like that for you? Haven't you ever been in -
Yes. Once.
What happened?
We've closed for the night.
You're holding a package for me. I'm. Rick.
Oh, yeah... Gimme a second.
I thought they destroyed all the ABC Warbots?
Whoa, friend, whoever sent you this is no friend at all.
Oh? And why's that?
That's a Lawgiver. It's programmed to only recognize a Judge's hand. You want a weapon, I can get you something nice. But if you touch that it'll take your arm off.
Really? grabs it! Geiger flinches - then looks puzzled.
How do you like that? He SHOOTS Geiger at point-blank range. Geiger hits the floor.
I must be a Judge. Rico bends, takes Geiger's keys and his cigars... then goes to the big cage.
Inside, the circuit cards have all been pulled from their sockets. Rico begins whistling... reveille. He pushes the boards back in, hits the RESET button.
Status. Commander. Mission. Rico strikes a match on the robot, lights a cigar.
Status: Personal bodyguard. Commander: Rico. Mission: We're going to war.
Vardis, if you're right, then this Judge Dredd isn't really part of the conspiracy.
No, of course n9t. It began before he was born. It had to have.
Then your report tomorrow _will destroy an innocent man. Doesn't Dredd's future bother you?
Yes. But I'm more worried about all of our futures then about Judge... The door THUDS open. Startled, they turn -
 .Dredd... ELAM BLAM BLAM! The Judge's gun FIRES and we
2 edd takes out a BAR CODE READER, scans the license plate. As -.e gizmo searches its data base, the FUPPIE  CAR :v.:; runs into view with a Cappuccino in a st yrofoam cup. He "oeeos" the lock, but Dredd blocks his way to the car door.
Is this your car?
Hey, come on... what are you gonna do, tow me?
Of course not. Towing is the penalty for the first offense. This is your second violation.  Grenade.
Dredd aims, FIRES. The caz. EXPLODES! Dredd walks casually away while the car's owner stands slack-jawed with debris tinkling around him.
Dredd. I... I can't believe it...
I'm afraid the evidence is conclusive. The trial will be just a formality. Fa:=c descends shakily from his seat. Moves to the window. :e =axes a pill from his pocket, tries to swallow it without ;_ _ f _ _r. seeing
Is it possible? Dredd, homicidal too? We went through.this nine years ago...
We were able tohide the facts then. This time, we may not be so lucky.
The victim was a reporter. The media is already sniffing around. Eventually... they'll get to the truth.
About Janus... and your part in it.
How... how long have you known?
Does it matter?
There's a way out, Chief Justice.
Into oblivion? You're suggesting I take it? You-fiust really want to destroy me -
No. I want to save the Judge system. The media won't stop digging into Dredd's case. When they get to the bottom... they'll find you.
But if you take the Long Walk... they'll find nothing but your honored memory.
My Walk will give you the Chief Judgeship!
It could also save Dredd's life.
In here. The Judge Hunters open a HOLDING CELL. Hershey steps inside.
Dredd? What's going on? And who are those feebs? I've never seen
They're Judge Hunters, Hershey. They're the ones who come out when a Judge has broken the Law. Hershey reacts; she's heard of them.
Judge Hunters? Then it's a full trial before the Council... that only happens one in a generation...
Judge Hershey. I don't have anyone else to ask... Will... will you be my defense attorney?
You're under.indictment? For what?
Murder. (X
Stop Video.
Before we go on, I wish to make a personal comment.
That is the Law, Judge McGruder. I would expect no less.
The Court shares in Judge McGruder's sentiments. In a way I am glad that Judge Fargo is about to begin his Long Walk.
He will be spared the pain of this trial. Proceed, Judge McGruder.
The video you have just seen is prima fascia evidence that the defendant is guilty as charged. Mark this video People's Exhibit
So marked. At the defendant's station, Hershey stands.
Objection, Your Honor. This video is inadmissible as evidence.
Judge Hershey, are you serious? Both of them recognized Judge Dredd!
That is the State's interpretation. Replay dialogue. _EC rewinds. Then:
.Doesn't Dredd's future-bother you?
Yes. But I'm more worried about all of our futures then about Judge ...Dredd...?
Stop video. Do you hear it? When Lily Hammond says "Dredd", it's part of the conversation. And when Vardis Hammond,,sa s 'Dredd' it could just as easily be the same. The suggestion that either has recognized their murderer is sheer supposition... or, in the case of the prosecution, wishful-thinking! BIG REACTION from the packed room. Griffin bangs the gavel for silence.
THE DEFENSE TABLE 1r Hershey returns here to get another document. Dredd WHISPERS.
Judge Hershey. I'm really glad I picked you to defend me.
You only picked me because you didn't have anyone else.
I'm still glad. CAMERA FOLLOWS Hershey forward.
It clearly shows nothing!
Cadet Olmeyer is acknowledged by all his instructors to be an expert in the field of still and video graphics. His affidavit states that this surveillance video is of such low definition that even after all known enhancements are used, no positive identification can be made of the killer. Since the uniform of a Judge could be counterfeit, I repeat my objection to this video being entered as evidence in this case.  I ask for a ruling.
Objection... sustained. The video is inadmissib e.
Yessss! The rest of the courtroom goes nuts. Griffin bangs for order. The BAILIFFS call out.
Order, order!
That kid barely knows me and he wants to save my ass.
Trust me. It's not your ass he's interested in.
Your Honor. I am forced now to enter certain technical evidence of a critical nature regarding the Mega-City Legal system.I will need the Court's permission. I will also need permission to access the Central Computer Bank.
Central. I wish to access weapons schematics, Judges division. Describe the workings of the standard Judge's sidearm, the Lawgiver Two, and especially its improvements over the earlier Lawgiver One. Central SPEAKS. Somehow its monotonous, sexless voice hints at an actual personality.
One moment.
,_u OMITTED thru
Nine years ago, the Lawgiver Model Two replaced the Lawgiver Model One. The difference lies in two areas: The computer chip and the ammunition coding. Like the Model one, the computer chip recognizes the thumbcode of all Judges. Judges may use each other's firearms; but a suspect dare not use a Judge's .weapon against "a Judge. ANIMATION reminds us of this in non-gory fashion.
However, the ammunition coding in the Model Two is not cued to the thumbcode recognition chip. Instead, it is coded to the personal DNA of the Judge using the weapon.
Listening carefully, wondering where this is going.
This is obtained in a download from my medical files and upgraded automatically every time the weapon is reloaded. Each time a round is chambered and fired, it is tagged with the relevant DNA.
Central. Were the bullets recovered from the bodies of Vardis and Lily Hammond so DNA coded?
Yes, Judge McGruder. It could not be otherwise.
And what was the result of the computer check of the DNA coding on those bullets? :ould swear that the computer is going for drama.
The DNA is a perfect match for Judge Joseph--D-re--dd. _:iAMSER - WIDE SHOT
 DNA evidence is irrefutable!
Do your job. She nods, stands.
Your Honor... the defense rests.
Griffin looks at McGruder.
Your Honor, the Prosecution rests.
The Jury may be sequestered. The Foreman, COUNCIL JUDGE ESPOSITO, stands.
Your Honor, sequestering is not necessary. The evidence is irrefutable.
Joseph Dredd, for this crime the Law allows only one punishment:
S:OCR: rebounds from every wall. As the gasps fade away, Griffin taxes out a sealed document.
However: I have here the last order of Judge Fargo, written this morning before he prepared for the Long Walk.
He orders that this Court be lenient with Judge Dredd, in gratitude for his years of service.  It has always been our-custom to carry out the last order of a Walking Judge. We will so honor this one.
"Let the Betrayer of the Law be taken from our Courts;" Already the Judge Hunters are coming for him.
Dredd. I... I'm sorry.
You did your best, Judge Hershey. He stands, takes her hand.
Thank you.
"Let the Freedom he stole from others be stolen from himself;"
pan. e Judge Hunters pull at him. Hershey hangs on as long as she
Dredd..!
"Let his armor be taken from him, and all his garb of Justice..."
A young FEMALE CADET in an sweet Contralo that contrasts with Griffin's bass READS from a different part of The Law:
"Let him be written in our hearts and our memories." She hands him the Book. Receives his bundle of worldly h=_ongings in return. A young MALE CADET steps forward, hands Fargo an ancient REMINGTON.
_= shoved into a jammed PRISON SHUTTLE. GUARDS fling.him in s=a=. The shuttle door closes, locks.
"Let him be stricken from our hearts and our memories."
"Forever." A line of CADETS raises Lawgivers overhead. They FIRE a 21 GUN SALUTE. Fargo walks out. TYye gate CLOSES.
"Forever."
Are you out of your mind, coming here? Griffin angrily starts forward... stops when the ABC robot moves to block his path.
And you brought this, too? Griffin waves his hand over desk controls. The lights DIM. S:i TTERS block the windows.
I like to do things my way.
Yes, I know. Like framing Dredd for Hammond's murder.
Hammond had to be silenced when he found out abut Janus! But I could have used Dredd! He practically worshiped the ground I walked on-
Dredd only worships the Law. And he'd blow you away the minute he found out just how much you're pissing on it. Trust me: It's better this way. Let him see what it's like to freeze his ass off in Aspen. Let him see what it's like I to be me! After all... He moves closer to Griffin, smiles.
.Dredd and I have so much in common. Why not this? Griffin looks at him, decides to drop the subject.
There's a lot of work to be done.
Yes. The Janus lab -
You'll see it soon enough. In the meantime... I want chaos, Rico. That block war was just the beginning. Now I want fear racing through every street... terror in every quad... panic in every block. Until those miserable rezzies think even their Judges can't save them. That's when the Council will turn to me... and to Janus. Rico moves towards the door. Pauses.
Fear, Terror, Panic. I think I can handle that. After all...  Look how quickly I brought fear in here. His smile fades and he exits.
A HOWLING WIND blows dust across the dead landscape. The ASPEN PRISON SHUTTLE appears over the horizon.
Attention, crew. We're changing course to avoid some chop. ETA Aspen Prison 11 hundred twenty two. The craft BANKS, the prisoners chains clanking as they sway. A mean looking PRISONER behind Dredd leans over, hisses:
Okay. W::.h a SNAP and without looking, Dredd jerks his elbow ba_xwards. The prisoner is knocked unconscious. As he sags in .is :hains, CAMERA ADJUSTS. The prisoner on the side of Dredd we haven't seen is Fergie. Now, he stares at Dredd. Then pins his hands over Dredd's.face, leaving Dre 's jaw =xcs and parting his fingers at Dredd's eyes, like the visor in she Judge's helmet. Fergie's eyes go wide.
Dredd? What are you doing here?
I was convicted of a crime.
That makes two f us.
No. You got the sentence the Law required. The Proper sentence.
Proper? Five years just for saving my own ass? .It was a mistake!
The Law does not make mistakes.
Yeah? Then how do you explain what happened to you?
You're wasting your breath, brother man...
Dredd's a machine. See, any man - even a Lawman - has a heart. But not Dredd. He's frozen inside. That's how he could make this man  and these boys - watch while like the Grim Reaper himself, he coldly cut down the youngest fruit of our tree.
Amen.
Angel: Maybe if your youngest fruit hadn't taken those hostages he could be here for the family reunion. As one, all the Angels lunge forward as much as their short chains will allow. Fergie recoils; Dredd doesn't. But two GUARDS turn at the commotion. (X'
Problem here?
No.
Actually,
EMPTY_LINE
Zone A open. Please reset alarm. Hershey steps in, putting a small tool away in a belt pouch. She closes the door. Takes in the monastic feel of the place. She moves to the bookcase: A small collection of leather-bound books, maybe a dozen in all. Plato, More, Jefferson, Paine. Hershey runs her fingers over the well-worn titles.
If Alarm is not reset, .system will signal armed response in 20 seconds. Hershey opens a drawer. A.few clothes. She slips her hands underneath, feels around, finds nothing. Opens the next drawer.
 Well. Baby Dredd.
Ten. Nine. Eight... Hershey folds the frame back up.. .slips out the door with it.
Cancel. Thank you for your cooperation.
Aspen Prison, phis is Prisoner Shuttle 5A. Request landing Vector. The VIDSCREEN on the console flutters into life. A harried ASPEN GUARD appears there. There's NOISE AND CONFUSION in the b.g. behind him.
Negative, Shuttle. We have a riot (XI in progress. 'Request denied. (-
Say again, Aspen? ( X;
Let's try it again, Dredd. You're in chains. You're going to prison. But you're innocent, and I'm guilty. But it's still not a mistake?
And that's when it happens. In that split-second of distraction when the guards look up to listen, Pa Angel begins to reach for
Look out - Misunderstanding his intentions, the nearest guardZAPS him with his Stun Club! At the same moment, Pa Angel getsthe other guard's weapon, turns it on him! The guard DROPS.One of the
.llldrrrd...LLLDRDDD... KILL
 Hack the Shuttle!
W-wha -
Hack the shuttle, now! Fergie pushes the pilot's body aside, hits controls. Meanwhile the convicts are swarming against the cage door.
What the hell's wrong?
The stabilizers controls! They got hit, toot CAMERA RAKES to the control panel... and a SMOKING, SIZZLING section. The craft tilts alarmingly. Dredd grabs the stick, helps Fergie try and pull up. It's useless.
His eyes glaze. He drops like a stone.
Pathetic. She turns to leave... stops when she sees the amused eyes of the man watching her from four feet away: Rico.
Hello, Professor.
 I see you're still researching the dark night of the soul.
The research ended when they condemned you. I live here, now. You showed me that facing death was the only way to live. Her eyes glisten as she moves towards Rico, touches his arm.
They... they told me you were dead. ?_cc reaches out gently. . .wipes a tear from her cheek.
Don't go woosy on me, Professor. We got work to do. He puts his arm around her. They step over her victim on their way out.
Helmeted JUDGE HUNTERS move through the dim wreck, using BAR CODE READERS to scan the .ID tags of the dead. SCANNERS attached to their weapons show readings.
Another Hunter steps inside through a jagged hole in the fuselage.
Sir.We found tracks leading away fromthe wreck. At least half a dozenpeople.
Yessir. Quite Clear.
Sir! We found someone. We follow them forward. Their flashlights converge on one of the WOUNDED GUARDS.
Thank God... thank - His eyes widen as their LASER GUNSIGHTS moves to his chest.
GUNFIRE erupts within and we
Central, I need to access the graphics database.
That could take several days, Judge Hershey. The Graphic Database covers all known graphics, from the Paleoithic Era to today. Hershey opens the framed viewies she took from Dredd's apartment, slides out the one with the adult Dredd.
This should be a little faster:  I want you to ID this man.
Even from here, I can see it's Judge Dredd.
 Scanning for identity, unknown male, approximately 200 Cm. tall, weighing 95 kilos, Skin Tone Three. Ten. Nine. Eight. Seven. Six - Suddenly the CONSOLE GOES DEAD with a BEEP.
Central? Central? Hello?
'ru OMITTED thru
Come on, you piece of junk...  No offense. The bolt loosens. Rico can open the panel. RICO Let there be Light. He flips a switch. The OVERHEAD LIGHTS come on. (Perhaps we notice that the Lab seems to be retro-fitted into a n older, metal structure with oddly irregular walls; perhap s not.)
You've made a lot of progress. Good.
Lights! About time - eyes narrow as Ilsa comes in from another area with a oboard.
Since then I've learned innocence is just another lie. And that the best truths come only with pain.  And... speaking of painful truths... Here's our shopping list. She hands Griffin the digital notepad.
Tomorrow. But it won't mean a thing if you can't get into Central's Janus files. They're still security locked.
Leave that to me. Meanwhile you have work to do... on the streets.
"Fear, Terror, Panic." Yes. My favorite emotions.
Mine too. Rico turns, whistles at the robot like it's a dog.
C'mon, Fido. Walkies. The robot follows Rico and Ilsa out the door. Griffin watches
 -- is Aspen Prison. Repeat do not land... riot in...gress... Warden dead... special prisoner...
Special prisoner? Say again, Aspen. You're breaking up...
.didn't even know he was here. Records showed execution... Rico, Samuel Rico... killed Warden... sabotaged security system... STATIC and GUNSHOTS end the tape.
 Rico? That's impossible... O.S. SCREAM. Fergie wakes with a start, REACTS to the dramatic shafts of sunlight raking the cathedral ceiling.
Ohmigod, I'm dead. I'm dead!
Awake. Good.  We're running out of sinners.
You have just committed murder. The penalty isdeath. Reverend Angel HITS Dredd.
Silence, blasphemer! You still put your faith in a false Law, instead of the one True Law!
Can it be? Can it be, that from the City of the Fallen, there is one of the Faithful?
Amen, brother! Say it!
Ah... Fergie...
Boys, I believe we have a Believer in the gallery. Cut him down!
Go tell it on the Mountain!
Well, Dredd. The Law doesn't make mistakes, but I'm in like a disk, and you're toast.
Actually, youre toast: I arrested the Angels oar Cannibalism.
Prepare the Supplicant for Sacrifice!
I'm not succulent! I'm not succulent, look, I'm skin and - CRACK! Dredd has swung his legs up, wrapped them around the pole, and SNAPPED it! He and the pole fall on top of Fergie and the leadmost Angels!
I surrender! I surrender!
We did it! We got them all! A SHAPE lunges up, close to CAMERA. It's one of the Hunters Dredd took out earlier, still alive enough to aim his weapon! Dredd aims his stolen one his trigger - CLICK! Empty! The Hunter squeezes Hunter turns - SLAM! The Hunter himself is hit! Shocked, the - gets off one last SHOT -
A FIGURE silhouetted in the Courtroom door FIRES at the same moment. The last Hunter falls, dead. Dredd looks at the new arrival... his hat... his long duster coat...
Fargo? BLOOD wells on Fargo's coat. e's been hit. As he sags, Dredd and Fergie rush towards him.H
The Dance? You want me to go to the Go amn Junior Dance?
I've given up on the centerfold. I'll settle for a date.
We're trying to save Judge Dredd, and you're using the situation to blackmail me. That's disgraceful!
I know. But I'll never get another chance like this.
 Yes!
Yes! Just do'it!
Olmeyer, you stupid futz! You analyzed the wrong picture!
I did? She gropes around on the desk, finds the viewie frame with the s:o: of Dredd and Rico.
You were supposed to do this one! You just wasted three hours! c-_rrputer BEEPS. MESSAGES run by the bottom of the screen.
If this is the wrong picture, why is it full of anomalies?
What?
Slick ones, too..-. somebody must have used a CGI-'terminal and a scan quadrupler to make this. He looks at the image, uses the mouse.
You mean... it's not real?
Take a look. I'll drop out all the artificial pixels.
hru OMITTED thru
Bury me there, under the blind lady. ^redd doesn't understand. Fargo raises his arm, points to the statue of Justice weighing her scales.
Judge or citizen - everyone got a fair shake. She treated them all the same.
No. You and the first Judges... you saved Mega-City.
Yes. And almost lost our souls.  It seemed like,,a wise idea: Create the perfect Judge. Breed courage - wisdom - integrity. The Janus Project. We used the old Council for the base material. Five DNA samples were taken, two were chosen. One was mine.
,r-- i5 CONTINUED : Dredd is stunned --
But.., but the orphanage told me my parents were killed by lawbreakers -- they gave me that picture of them -
A fake. The psychs on the Janus project came up with that story. It was supposed to motivate you into law enforcement. It worked. Both times.
What do you mean, both times?
I have a... brother?
More than a brother.
He had to be put down . But I wouldn't let them do that to you. Griffin blackmailed me into the Walk, Dredd. Don't trust him.
,- 15 CONTINUED:  leg
Like I trusted you?
I'm sorry... son. The breath goes out of Fargo's body. He dies. Dredd stares at him, his world torn apart.
I buried him. Except for this. Dredd silently follows Fergie to the grave. Fergie shoves the Remington into the mound of earth as a marker.
You wanna... say something? He hands The Book to Dredd. After a moment, Dredd opens it.
Where are going? Dredd yanks the Remington out of Fargo's grave. We track into Dredd's face until it fills frame.
To find Rico.
Two of them! They tried to... it was horrible! h T e Judges dismount, head that way. GUNSHOTS. SCREAMS. __rible tearing SOUNDS. ( .96 a.:se. TheABCrobot comes around the corner, hands stained, =..__e: dingsinits armor. The woman turns. It's Ilsa. As s-:= reckonsthelumbering machine, we
There's no way in, Dredd!
Hey, did you hear me? They don't have a welcome mat!
 There's a way in: Six years ago two Cursed Earthers figured it out.
The vent from the city incinerator. There's a burst twice a minute. That means that there's 30 seconds for someone to run through the tube before it flames again.
And these Cursed Earthers, they made it through? , _
Actually, they were burned to a crisp. But the theory's sound.
What's wrong? Are you kidding? Did that helmet you wore all those years compress your brain? You're gonna get me killed!
Fergie. There's a maniac loose in the city -
There's one loose out here, too! Big choice, I got! Dying of thirst or from a fireball up my ass! This is all your fault!
My fault?
Yes! If you hadn't arrested me, wouldn't be here in the first place! =erc a sits down petulantly. FERGIE I'm through schlepping. I'm gonna sit here until I die... or until you apologize.
You're not a Judge anymore.
I was when I sentenced you.
Don't get technical. Just say: "I'm sorry I misjudged you. And I'll never arrest you again." Dredd turns around. Marches back to Fergie. Pause. Dread whips a gun up, points it at Fergie. COCKS it.
 Apology accepted. Dredd turns... walks. Fergie looks at another FIREBALL emerging from the city wall.. then at the trackless wasteland he's just crossed. Pause. With a groan, he races to catch up with Dredd.
 Dispatch, I'm in Green Quad, 4-11. Need pickup.
we copy, Hershey. We'll bag 'em. Meanwhile I have Central on line for you. Can you take it? S^e sakes a few steps away from her perps for privacy.
Yes, patch me in!
Judge Hershey, you paged me. How can I assist you?.
You can start by telling me why Dredd's baby picture is a state secret. Pause. We can almost hear Central thinking. Meanwhile, behind Hershey, a figure in a Judge's uniform approaches her Bike... drops something into a storage compartment on it. Even from this distance we notice a red arming light on the object.
I'm sorry, I can neither confirm nor deny your statement.
Run! C=ouched over, they race up the slight slope.
 Thirty... twenty nine... twenty eight... twenty seven... twenty six.. twenty five... _ 9 9 r,:ti : _I ? E... ND THEM 199 =e:gie's already beginning to drop back. The only guide in the dark is the slight reflection from CONDUIT on the chute floor.
Stop counting!
still halfway back!
CAMERA RAKES back. Fergie's caught on the same conduit!
As he shouts "TWO" he is whipped forward like a trout on a line!
And, as a FIREBALL ROLLS RIGHT BEHIND THEM, Dredd dives out of the opening behind Fergie!
Fergie? Dredd hears a muffled SOUND beneath him. He reaches down... YANKS Fergie into view. Fergie spits out a mouthful of ashes.
I'm alive. I'm alive! (seeing Dredd, less
Oh. So are you.
Whoever's doing it knows all our procedures... our security measures...even our scrambled frequencies - !
Now the street criminals are taking advantage of the situation. It's a nightmare!
Hell, it's a Goddamn revolution!
We can't replaee those Judges! it takes years of training! We may never be at full strength again!
There is a solution. (on their desperate
Project Janus.,
We tried to play God once! It almost destroyed the Council -
If this wholesale slaughter of Judges continues, there won't be a council! Janus could -
Come on, Griffin! A new batch of test tube babies won't solve this crisis! We don't need reliable Judges 20 years from now when they're grown! We need them today!
There's been over thirty years of genetic research since Janus failed. What if we could create adult subjects, fully grown andfu3ly trained at birth? We could replace the Judges we've lost in weeks. We could save our society!
Who knows if that's even possible?
Who knows if it's safe?
But Fargo said you couldn't trust
I don't. But I trust the Council. When I tell them about Rico...
they pass peers at them, but doesn't speak. They round
Just don't get us killed, Dredd. : still want that apology.
Griffin, Douglas. .Chief Justice. Authorize access-to file, code name "Janus".
Acknowledged.
McGruder, Evelyne. Council Judge. Authorize access to file, code name "Janus".
Acknowledged. ON SCREEN, GRAPHICS show the SOFTWARE LOCKS being removed one by one from the Janus Files.
Esposito, Carlos. Council Judge. Authorize access to file, code name "Janus".
Acknowledged.
Yamamoto, Gerald. Council Judge. Authorize access to file, code name "Janus".
I have unanimous authorization for access to file, code name "Janus". Removing security blocks. .NOW. Awaiting Password command from Presiding Chief Justice.
Password... Janus. moves in front of the mac hi ne, speaks tersely. GRIFFIN Central: Using current technology, how long would it take for Janus to produce a fully grown adult subject?
Given the current state of genetic engineering an adult subject could be incubated in approximately eight hours. ASTONISHMENT in the room.
Although only two subjects were produced in the original experiment, the laboratory was equipped with 20 incubators. if fully operational, 420 subjects could be produced a week.
My God. We could replace our losses in a day -
You aren't considering this madness?
No.. I'm just reacting to the possibility... a frightening possibility.
Yes. I for one... think this is an idea that should be forgotten.
I agree. Judge Griffin, please restore the Security Blocks.
I see, now, that none of you have the force of will that these terrible times require. You will never open Janus again. So... we'll just leave it... unlocked. 216r EXT. COUNCIL CHAMBER - NIGHT 216A Dredd is about to open the door when a HAND spins him around. It's the Judge who followed..him!
Dredd! I thought it was y-- That's all he says before Dredd K.O.'s him!
McGruder stands, furious.
Griffin, this is treason! You just sealed your fate!
No. You've just sealed yours. Rico!
Who says politics is boring?
Rico whirls, looks at
Dredd takes Rico to the floor. They both roll over and over.
You're mine.
Really? s moment we think he's going to shoot. Then he turns his points it at his own arm - fires!
Stop him! He just killed the entire council! Dredd realizes he's fucked. He turns, runs. The Judge Hunters pause near their wounded leader; who bravely waves them on. ^.ey tear after Dredd like woJ-ves.
Dredd! Tell them I'm innocent!
Hey - ! That's all he gets out. Dredd hi-blocks him, barrels past.
Dredd..? Dredd, you're not gonna-- Dredd hits the button marked "AERIAL MODE". There's a BEEP and the SOUND FX we heard earlier... when the flying prototype failed.
CRASH' They go through the irregular hole!
An, they. - the Aerial Mode Lifters kick in with an EERIE WHINE. "he fivnc motorcvc a comes out of its roll wit a BLAST of rccxets - and roars upwards!
ru OMITTED thru
Why didn't you kill him when you had the chance?
It's better with him on the loose. He'll keep the surviving street Judges preoccupied while we work on Janus.
Excellent suggestion, Central. Do it.
It's done. Council Judge Rico, may be the first to offer my congratulations?
Central... I'm touched.
I guess you're out of friends, Dredd.
Up against the wall, now! The figure complies. It's Fergie.
I'm with him. - =141; steps into the light.
Dredd! '_- a moment she's elated. Then her face hardens. She holds n steady. HERSHEY Stay where you are.
Hershey. What is it - ?
They're dying out-there, Dredd. A hundred and eight Judges in 48 hours. Everyone who's left is on triple shifts and pseudorphin. I thought it was organized criminals, revolutionaries, something... then I was a target.
You think I'm-part of this -
r^ 40 CONTINUED: 24C
I don't know what to think anymore. Dredd moves like lightning - pins her gun hand against the wall - then freezes. It's a challenge, not a threat. She glares at him - counter moves - gets an elbow against his throat! But Dredd doesn't break her hold - or turn the gun on her. It's deliberate check-mate on both their parts.
Secrets can hurt more than anything. She relaxes her hold on him. Throws something down.
Tell me about him, Dredd. Make me believe in you again the way I did when I defended you.
And he's doing it again?
Him... and Griffin.
Griffin? We have to tell the Council - !
There is no Council, Hershey: They were all murdered an hour ago.
The same. Inhuman. Defective. He just broke down, first.
No!
How many times have you said I had no feelings, no emotions? Now you know why.
Dredd.g Children were born in laboratories, even back in the twentieth century... test tube babies, in vitro fertilization. No one ever questioned their
It's not the same! They had parents, they embraced their humanity... they didn't hide it... fight it... question it!
Dredd. The Janus project didn't do that to you. You did that to yourself. He turns, startled. Realizes she's right.
 Myself. Griffin. Fargo. Even Fergie. I've been wrong about so much...
Never the Law, Dredd. Never the Law. That means more than anything else she can say to him. He looks into her eyes. Fergie comes in, ends the moment.
You can forget the terminal out here. We're gonna have to go somewhere else to get in the System.
 Hershey. You just said I was never wrong about the Law. They took away my badge. I'm a convicted murderer. I have no authority any more - no legal authority. Pause. without the law as a safety net, Dredd is in uncharted emotional territory.
Will ...wi11 you help me, Hershey? Not as a Judge but... but... as my friend? ::'s the most ordinary request anyone could make... anyone but Dredd. Hershey understands how much it means. She fights back :ears, puts her hand on his arm.
I'd be honored. Dredd reaches over, squeezes her hand. There's absolutely nc:n.nc sexual about it - and that makes it even more powerful.
Slight change,. of plans, Central. I want to purge that DNA sample.
DNA sample purged. If you wish to proceed with cloning, I will require a new sample.
What are you doing?
The same thing you are: House-cleaning. Mock-annoyed, she throws a cleaning rag at him. She turns on he droid. It moves off, polishing the floor. Curious, she icins Rico.
Central, active the DNA sampling console. :4-nind Rico, another CONSOLE lights up. Rico crosses to it, passing by his pet robot. v:: _ .. R : CO 24
The sampling console is ready. rips his sleeve open to the elbow... sits down... puts his _.:rnec arm in a special steel hollow. CHUNG! CLAMPS close, ._s arm down. RICO Central. Take DNA sample.. .now. DRILL LIKE DEVICE descends with a frightening grind -anc STABS right into his arm!
New DNA sample being analyzed. Scanning. Ma;rix scan complete.
Kiss me, Professor. I'm gonna be a father.
Central, I order you to give me the location of the Janus Lab, immediately! By now the CAMERA is in Olmeyer's student pod. Olmeyer, Fergie and Hershey are in a corner, watching and whispering. : edd is on the other side of the cubicle, at a Central Station. ' r e's wearing his own helmet and badge again.
I am sorry, but the location of the Janus Lab is classified information, accessible only to Chief Justice Griffin and Council Judge Rico.
Actually, the onl Council Judge. Chief Justice Griffin promoted him so they could both use me to get the Janus Lab up and running.
You're helping them?
Of course. They are the highest ranking surviving Judges in Mega- City. I am programmed to obey them.
But they're breaking the law! Who the hell programmed you?
Lawyers.
Fine! I'll file charges!
Central. This is Judge Hershey. I hereby file formal charges of murder against Chief Justice Griffin and Council Judge Rico. And I order you to give me the location of the Janus Lab so that I may personally make the arrest!
Certainly, Judge Hershey. However, as per Mega-City Code Section 84, Paragraph "A", I need authorization from the Chief Justice to arrest a Council Judge. Similarly, as stated in Paragraph "B", same Section, I need authorization from any Council Judges to arrest a Chief Justice. In this case, that would be Chief Judge Griffin and Council Judge Rico.
Basically... yes. And without their authorization you cannot file charges, and without charges I cannot violate Security and tell you the location of the Lab.
Fergie, you've got to have something - a password, a kluge -
Central's a fuzzy A.I. - the best fuzzy A.I. ever built. If reasoning didn't work...  .nothing will.
Come on, you cracked the food robot... the shuttle computer -
Simple systems, Dredd! Besides, I was scared.
Scared..?
Well, yeah. Those were life or death situations. That's when my adrenalin shoots up and my brain goes into overtime - but you can't predict when that's gonna - Dredd grabs him, tucks him under his arm like a newspaper, and leaves the pod.
Hey! The others are so surprised it's a second before they follow.
First that Goddamn computer turned on me. Then, you! CRASH! Fergie's head hits a LIGHT FIXTURE. The bulb EXPLODES.
Dredd, have you gone craz- OW! Dredd steers him into another hanging FIXTURE. And ANOTHER.
Dredd! Stop it - OW! Are you out of your - OW !
Dredd, you're scaring him!
That's the idea! Another BULB EXPLODES.
Damn it, Dredd, Lemme down! I'm hitting every Goddamn - 2C ice:- - CLOSE 250 .. :his position, we can SEE the flash of inspiration on s "ace.
 - light!
Have it show you the city power grid!
Central! I need to see the city power grid!
 Tell it to scan around all the grid sections. Random selection.
Scan through all the grid sections. Random selection. RAPID IMAGES now: Different neighborhoods of Mega-City, all depicted as COMPUTER GRAPHICS of color and pattern.
 The Lab was top secret. It had to be in an out of the way place to stay secret. Right?
They all rush forward, look at the grid. It's mostly DARK, just specks of light - but there''s one PULSING HOT SPOT.
Red Quad, Section 5: The oldest part of Mega-City. Olmeyer turns, looks off.
Did you hear something?
It's probably just the Judge Hunters.
What?
When I was off-line a moment ago, Judge Griffin asked me if I knew where you were. Naturally, I told him yes, and gave him your location.
Get out, quick - !
What about you -
I'll tell them you forced me to help you, get out! _2JX25 of pursuit are closer. Fergie yanks Dredd's arm. They _=ave. At the last moment, Hershey spontaneously kisses :,:mever. Needless to say, he's thrilled.
You're under arrest, cadet. Anything you say will be held against you. Woozy from the blow to the head, Olmeyer nods, pleased.
Judge Hershey.
Dredd got away from the Hunters. He could be on his way here right now!
Don't worry. He's going to be seriously outnumbered. Right, Central?
Correct, Council Judge Rico. The new DNA sample has been multi-plexed and the gametes are already dividing.
Hey, That old DNA was in there for over 30 years. Sooner or later you gotta clean out the fridge.
My God. You?
Can you think of a better model? Sleek lines... strong chassis. Corners on the curves.
I've test driven him. It's true.
Rico. You don't know what you're doing! Software or wetware, when you make reproductions, there's always the danger of a defective copy! The last time, there was one perfect copy -
Me.
Dredd! And one defective copy -Lou! You had a mutation, on the Y chromosone...
Yes. A mutat;on that made me the next step in human evolution.
A mutation that made you a genetic criminal!
Really? What's your excuse?
Rico, for God's sake, listen! You're a defective copy yourself! And now you're making more copies that will be even more mutated -more
You're lying! All you care about is control! Well, the next batch of Janus Judges won't be the puppets you want... they'll be my brothers and sisters, mine to control!
Why not? I'm going to breed some more of me... the old fashioned way.
I'd like to be a fly on that wall.
You will be.
My God. I never should have started this. Never. But now I'll finish it - . He draws his Lawgiver! But it has barely cleared the holster when the ABC robot grabs Griffin's wrist! It plucks the weapon from his han as if he's a child, hangs on to him!
Griffy. You shouldn't have done that. Fido is very loyal.
The robot grabs Griffin with its other hand. He's completely off the ground now.
I'm sorry, Chief Justice. The ABC robot is not tied into my main processor. Judge Rico has sole voice control.
That's right, Griff. You gotta get with this hi-tech stuff. Robot: Tear off Judge Griffin's arms and legs. Save his head for last. CAMERA ADJUSTS as Griffin SCREAMS with fear - and then, as we :GHTEN on Rico and Ilsa, and we SEE the horrible SHADOWS on t:ne wall, the screams become far, far worse. cc watches with wincing amusement, like a spectator at a par: cularly rough hockey game. :=sa watches with a sick fascination and awe. -:-:ally the screams and horrible wrenching sounds STOP. There's a T The robot returns to position, metal hands stained.
Before we go on, um... may I assume that Judge Griffin has uh... retired from duty?
You may so assume.
I. see. (not thrilled! Well, in the uh, absence of any other um... surviving Council Judges, you are now the Presiding Chief Justice.
The clone incubators are on-line. The first batch of clones from your personal DNA can be hatched in eight hours. Chief Justice Rico, how many copies of you would you like?
Let's start with... a thousand. CAMERA ADJUSTS to show the INCUBATORS as they begin to fill with
Beginning Cloning process.. .now. And as an EIGHT HOUR COUNTDOWN begins, we
This looks like a really bad neighborhood. I'll stay here and watch the bike -
I. knew you were gonna say that.
Down there. CAMERA ZOOMS BACK. They're on the artiall ruined HEAD of the STATUE OF LIBERTY! Now, t ey DESCEND into the torso.
Enough. Dredd. Drop your gun.
No.  Edsel, here still has another
T h e ROBOT looks sharply at Dredd.
Amusing. Robot. On a count of three... break Judge Hershey's neck. One... two... .e.: groaning, the Robot STANDS - tenses. Dredd throws down Remington beside Hershey's Lawgiver. Ilsa comes over to the V:ea=c^s. She picks up the REMINGTON... starts to reach for the
Suddenly Ilsa grins. Laughs... and kicks it away.
She's such a tease.
He is a lot like me.
I'm nothing like you.
The only difference between us, Joseph, is that you destroyed your life when you embraced the Law. I destroyed the Law and embraced...- life !
RICO'S VOICE And speaking of life... behold. A Sw_TCH is thrown - 2-74 A : u` STS LAB - VERY WIDE - NIGHT 274 7cr the first time we SEE it, fully operational, fully lit, =_ea^inc with cold efficiency. Despite himself, Dredd is -.pressed. Rico dances into the great room, expansive. Ilsa oes Dredd forward.
This is where we were born, brother! Can you feel the magic? Come... come, see where we began.
Look at them. Full of promise. The dawn of the new day.
 The dawn of a new species.
Our brothers and sisters will be born in two hours. 60 today... 60 tomorrow. An endless supply of perfection to guard Mega-City forever.  Dredd. I can't train them alone... wide them alone. You can help me. You have to help me: It's your birthright.
You get nothing from me, Rico. You've betrayed the Law.
You... you dare mention betrayal to me? I was your friend. More then a friend! I was oyal to you... and you Judged me! You sent me up for nine years o frozen hell in Aspen! And you dare say "betrayal" to me? He raises his Lawgiver, aims it between Dredd's eyes.
 Dredd. Give me your word you'll help me raise the kids.
When Aspen thaws, Rico. Go to hell. Tense seconds. Rico grins boyishly, lowers the gun.
Aw. You knew I couldn't pull the trigger. we're family. He steps back. His face hardens. He SHOUTS.
Fido!
- until he SEES Fergie, hanging on the back of the his hands deep inside it working its circuits!
Dredd! Catch! She throws the Remington 11sa dropped to Dredd!
Hack you... asshole. =erce slumps... lies still.
You don't fight girls much, do you? She grabs Ilsa's ankle, flips her!
Fergie.
I. I made a mistake. I... I'm sorry I misjudged you.
And you'll never arrest me again.
And I'll never arrest you again.
Damn straight. e dies. Dredd closes his eyes. CAMERA TIGHTENS on Dredd as nis face fills with fury. He SEES Hershey's Lawgiver on the --cor. Snatches it up! We CRANE UP with him as he COCKS it.
wnrls, CHARGES into the open!
He DIVES behind some consoles! Armor Piercing rounds chase him, punching holes just above his head. Equipment SPARKS and SMOKES. Rico takes cover, lowers his voice.
Central! Hatch the first set of clones, now!
The cloning process is not finished, Chief Justice Rico. The Clones will be only 60 per cent complete.
Fuck that, I need reinforcements! Hatch the Goddamn clones, now!
Beginning hatching process... now.
to the incubators. They begin to open.
Hershey falls! Ilsa turns, KICKS her! Hershey =es to get to he feet. Ilsa moves in, ready to deliver the r:l:inc blow. And then - she SCREAMS.
bone! ; It's half formed, raw muscle and sinew barely covering
fumbling along in the smoke. Suddenly another half-formed CLONE rears up in his face! It mews horribly, clutches at him! Dredd FIRES a burst at it. It fa s away, vanishes in the smoke!
Bitch!
Judge Bitch, to you! Hershey CLOBBERS her with a right!
Rico. Dread is on top of a big console. DREDD Here comes the Judge. - -IVES down on Rico! Each man grabs each other's wrists! h T e Lawgivers both FIRE wildly. Dredd and Rico carom off ec:u pment , FALL!
All lethal rounds exhausted. Select.
All lethal rounds exhausted. Select. Dredd is almost on top of him!
He FIRES!
Central! Turn off overhead lighting! HUNK. The lights GO OUT. Rico grins, runs out of SHOT!
Central! Can you -
Don't expect help from me, escaped-convict Dredd. I have explained your legal standing repeatedly. I advise you to surrender.
Okay, you win. I'll give myself up to Chief Justice Rico. Where is he?
turns, too late - Dredd's tackle takes him out of the sa.: ..._e 312E _:.Os =Fc 312B ^e -and on the edge of the ruined head! The Lawgiver skids cu: reach!
That's for Fargo! That's for the u Co ncil! That's for Fergie!
This... this is how you repay me for telling you the truth? That we were born with a destiny to rule! A destiny you spit on! Rico hits him on the wound again! Dredd falls, rolls to the edge of the rubble strewn platform. Rico grins, struggles to full height. RICO
And finally... to the charge of being human when you could have been a God... GUILTY. Rico nicks up the Lawgiver. Puts it right against Dredd's head.
The sentence is DEATH!
All lethal rounds exhausted. Select.
DNA accepted. Select.
Signal Flare! And as he SHOUTS it, he uses his last strength to smack the weapon away!
The SIGNAL FLARE ROUND FIRES, like a ROCKET! Rico, off-balance., is knocked backwards! He falls SCREAMING to his death!
32: DBE-i AND HERSHEY - AT THE PNEUMATIC DOOR - LOWER LEVEL 320 ::sa, cuffed, is on the floor, unconscious. Hershey helps s.:=port Dredd. They look at each other. Dredd looks back in 'e lab. Nods at Hershey. She raises her weapon. Speaks into
Grenade. BLAM! The incubators EXPLODE.
.. It's over.
They know, Judge Dredd.
They know, now. The Judge Hunters put away their weapons. The leader=approaches Dredd, salutes.
No. Just a Judge. I did my job. CAMERA ADJUSTS and we SEE that he is holding Fergie's body in ..z.s arms.
Here's your hero. The other Judges take Fergie's body respectfully. Hershey and -ever approach Dredd.
We have to reconstitute the Council, Judge Dredd. You should be on it. doesn't look convinced. Hershey, even less so.
No. That's not for him.
