David Koepp
87 miles southeast of Nublar
Cathy!  Don't wander off!
Cathy, come back!  You can look for shells right here!
 Leave her alone.
What about snakes?
There's no snakes on a beach.  Let her have fun, for once.
Please be quiet, please be quiet please be quiet...
Well, hello there!
What are you?  A little bird or something?
Are you hungry?  You want a goldfish?
Come on.  I won't hurt you.
Mom!  Dad!  You gotta come see this! I found something!
 What do you guys want?
Cathy, sweetheart!  Lunch is ready!
PAUL!
The hurricane seemed like a disaster at the time, but now I think it was a blessing, nature's way of freeing those animals from their human confines.  Of giving them another chance to survive, but this time as they were meant to, without man's interference.
There are some corporate issues that are not about the bottom line.  We have so much still to learn about those creatures.  A whole world of intricate, interlocking behaviors, vanished everywhere -- except for Site B. Please.  Let's not do what is good for more men at the expense at what is best for all mankind.
Thank you, John.  Mr. Ludlow?
 Wrongful death settlements, partial list:  family of Donald Gennaro, 36.5 million dollars; family of Robert Muldoon, 12.6 million.  Damaged or destroyed equipment, 17.3 million. Demolition, de-construction, and disposal of Isla Nublar facilities, organic and inorganic, one hundred and twenty-six million dollars.  The list goes on, gentlemen -- research funding, media payoffs.  Silence is expensive.
This corporation has been bleeding from the throat for four years.  You, our board of directors, have set patiently and listened to ecology lectures while Mr. Hammond signed your checks and spent your money. You have watched your stock drop from seventy-eight and a quarter to nineteen flat with no good and in sight.  And all along, we have held a significant product asset that we could have safely harvested and displayed for profit.  Enormous profit.
Enough money to wipe out four years of lawsuits and damage control and unpleasant infighting, enough to not only send our stock back to where it was but to double it.  And the one thing, the only thing standing between us and this asset is a born-again naturalist who happens to be our own CEO.  Well, I don't work for Mother Nature.  I work for you.
"Whereas the Chief Executive Officer has engaged in wasteful and negligent business practices to further his own personal environmental beliefs -- Whereas these practices have affected the financial performance of the company by incurring significant losses -- Whereas the shareholders have been materially harmed by these losses -- Thereby, be it resolved that John Parker Hammond should be resolved from the office of Chief Executive Officer, affective immediately."  Mr. Chairman, I move the resolution be put to an immediate vote.  Do I have a second?
I second the motion,  Mr. Chairman, Please poll the members by a show of hands.
All those in favor of InGen Corporate Resolution 213C, please signify your approval by raising your right hand.
Yeah.
 Shit.
You're him, aren't you?
Excuse me?
The guy.  The scientist.  I saw you on TV.  I believed you.
Roooooarr.
 I was misquoted.  I was merely speculating on the evolutionary scenario of a Lost World.  I never said I was in any such place.
Whom shall I tell Mr. Hammond is calling?
Ian Malcolm
Not an animal lover?
Not really.
Ian!  Don't linger in the doorway like an ingenue, come in, come in!
It's good to see you.  It really is. How's the leg?
Resentful.
When you have a lot of time to think, it's funny who you remember.  It's the people who challenged you.  It is the quality of our opponents that gives our accomplishments meaning.  I never told you how sorry I was about what happened after we returned.
I didn't know you -- weren't well.
It's the lawyers.  The lawyers are finally killing me.
They do have motives.  Why did you want to see me?  Your message said it was urgent.
You were right -- and I was wrong. There!  Did you ever think you'd hear me say that?  Spectacularly wrong. Instead of observing those animals, I tried to control them.  I squandered an opportunity and we still know next to nothing about their lives.  Not their lives as man would have them, behind electric fences, but in the wild.  Behavior in their natural habitat, the impossible dream of any paleontologist.  I could have had it, but I let it slip away.  Thank God for Site B.
What?
 Well?  Didn't it all seem a trifle compact to you?
What are you talking about?
The hatchery, in particular?  You know my initial yields had to be low, far less than one percent, that's a thousand embryos for every single live birth.  Genetic engineering on that scale implies a giant operation, not the spotless little laboratory I showed you.
I don't believe you.
Isla Nublar was just a showroom, Ian, something for the tourists, Site B was the factory floor.  We built it first, on Isla Sorna, eight-some miles from Nublar.
No, no, no, no, no, no . . .
After the accident at the park, a hurricane wiped out our facility on Site B.  We had to evacuate and leave the animals to fend for themselves. And they did.  For four years I've fought to keep them safe from human meddling, now I want you to go there and document them.
Are you out of your mind?  I still have nightmares, my reputation's a joke, my leg is shot -- you think I need more of that?
It would be the most extraordinary living fossil record the world has ever seen.
So what?
I've been putting this together for over a year.  I have personal suggestions for your entire team, phone numbers, contact people.  They won't believe you about what they're going to see, so don't bother trying to convince them.  Just use my checkbook to get them there. I'll fund your expedition through my personal accounts, as such money and equipment as you need, but only if you leave immediately.  If we hesitate, all will be lost.
John . . .
You'll need an animal behaviorist, someone with unimpeachable credentials.  I believe you already know Sarah Harding.  She's got theories about parenting and nurturing among hunter/scavengers I bet she'd be dying to prove on a scale like this.  If you convince her to go, it'll be a major coup.  When she publishes, the scientific community must take it seriously.
Your documentation, you should use forensic photographic methods, Hasselbladt still cameras, high definition video.  When the trick photography analysts take your evidence apart, make it impossible for them to say there was enhancement or computer graphic imaging.  Oh, this is very important -- avoid the island interior at all costs.  Stick to the outer rim.  Everything you need to know can be found there. Vindication lies on the outer rim.
I'm not going, John.
 Ian, you are my last chance to give something of real value to the world. I can't walk so far and leave no footprints; die and leave nothing with my name on it.  I will not  be known only for my failures.  And you will not allow yourself to go down in history as a lunatic.  You're too smart.  You'e too proud.  Dr. Malcolm.  Please.  This is a chance at redemption.  For both of us. There's no time to equivocate, we must seize it now, before --
Hello, Uncle John.  Dr. Malcolm.
Did I interrupt something?
Find someone else.
So, you two were just, uh, telling old campfire stories, were you?
Do me a favor.  Don't pretend for a second that you and I don't know the truth.  You can convince Time magazine and the Skeptical Inquirer of whatever you want, but I was there.
You signed a non-disclosure agreement before you went to the island that expressly forbade you from discussing anything you saw.  You violated that agreement.
You cost me my livelihood.  That on which I relied to support my children.
If your university felt you were causing it embarrassment by selling wild stories to Hard Copy, I hardly see how I am to--
I didn't tell anything, I told the truth.
You version of it.
There are no versions of the truth! This isn't a corporate maneuver, it's my life.
We made a generous compensatory offer for your injuries.
It was a payoff and an insult.  InGen never--
InGen is my livelihood, Dr. Malcolm, and I will jealously defend its interests.  People will know what I want them to know when I want them to know it.
Don't forget that.
Do you have a satellite phone?
Ajay?
 How did you know?
 That cheap aftershave I send you every Christmas, you actually wear it.  I'm touched.  Sit down, sit down, what brings you to Mombassa?
You.  Tell me, Roland, when was the last time you answered your phone?
Last time I plugged it in, I suppose. Why?
I got a call from a gentleman who's going to Costa Rica, or thereabouts. If he's to be believed, it's a most, uh, unique expedition.  And very well-funded.
Well, I'm a very well-funded old son of a bitch.  You go.
But alone?  We always had great success together, you and I.
Just a little bit too much, I think.
How do you mean?
A true hunter doesn't mind if the animal wins.  If it escapes.  But there weren't enough escapes from you and me, Ajay.  I've decided to spend a bit less time in the company of death.  Maybe I just feel too close to it my--
 Excuse me.
You, sir -- are no gentleman.
Is that supposed to be an insult?
I can think of none greater.
Buzz off, you silly old bastard.
What do I have to do to pick a fight with you, bring your mother into it?
Are you kidding?  I could take you with one arm tied down.
Really?
I mean my arm.
Sorry.  We were saying?
You broke that idiot's jaw for no reason other than your boredom.  Tell the truth, Roland.  Aren't you even interested in knowing this expedition's quarry?
Ajay.  Go on up to my ranch, take a look around the trophy room, and tell me what kind of quarry you think could possibly be of any interest to me.
Hyenas.  Ace Face is the striped snout.
They'll try to take down a calf. Come on.
Closer?
You know, we could see everything from up on the edge of that cliff.
No way.
But the view would --
No cliffs.  F1 headed sough, F2 and F5 flanking, twenty yards.  F3 center.  F6 circling wide east.  Can't see F7.
Sarah.
F8 circling north.  F1 straight through, disrupting.  Herd moving, stamping.  There's F7.  Straight through.  F8 angling through from the north.
Dr. Harding.
Brooding behavior in evidence at the kill site, pups are ushered forward and adults help them eat, pulling flesh away from the carcass and--
 I thought you turned it off!
Yes?!
Ian.  This better be important.
When?
We leave in twenty-four hours.  Five member team.
Eddie Carr's handling all our equipment and he'll be there to maintain it.  He's designing special field trailers now, top of the line mobile research units.
No, no, look at the plans, Henry, you can't place that strut laterally, it has to be crosswise, LOOK AT THE PLANS!
Sorry, Eddie!  Specs say it can't deform at 12,000 PSI, we had to test it
Any damage?
Minimal.
"Minimal" is too much.   It has to be light, it has to be strong --
Light and strong, light and strong, sure, why not, it's only impossible. God save me from academics.
You are an academic.
Former academic.  Now I actually make things.  I don't just talk.
You think I'm all talk, Eddie?
 It doesn't matter what I think.
Is there anything we've forgotten? Anything at all?
Hi, Dad.
Kelly!  What are you doing here?
Vacation.  I'm all yours.  You didn't forget, did you?
Did you?
Okay, Karen is expecting you in half an hour.  You only have to stay with her one night, she'll put you on a bus in the morning and your mother will be at the station when you get there.
I don't even know this woman.
Well, I do, and she's fantastic. She'll take you to the museum, maybe to a movie if you play your cards right.  You're going to have a fantastic time.
Stop saying fantastic.  Where are you going?
I can't tell you.  But I'll be back within a week.
My vacation is over in a week.
I'll make it up to you this summer. I promise.
I'm your daughter all the time, you know.  Not just when it's convenient.
Very hurtful.  Your mother tell you to say that?
No, Dad.  I have thoughts of my own once in a while.
Dr. Malcolm!
Is that kid still bothering you?
Which one?
You know, at the bus stop.  With the hair?
That was about a year ago.
Well, is he?
No.  Richard talked to his parents.
That Richard.
Ian, come here a minute!
 I could come with you.
Out of the question.  You'd miss the gymnastics trials.  You've been training for that for a year.
I don't care about the trials, I want to be with you.  I could be your research assistant, like I was in Austin.
This is nothing like Austin.  Forget about it.
You like to have kids, you just don't want to be with them, do you?
I'm not like you wan me to be.  I've what I can be.
 Couldn't -- we just -- airlift -- into the -- island?
Dr. Harding insisted we go by sea! Helicopters are too disruptive. These aren't piles of bones you'll be studying this time, Dr. Juttson, they live, they breathe, and they react!
So what's your story, Nick?
I was a cameraman for Nightline for six years, been freelance since '91. Do a lot of work for Greenpeace.
That must be interesting.  What drew you there?
Women.  'Bout eighty percent female in Greenpeace.
Very noble of you.  You don't think you're bringing that thing onto the island, do you?
Hey, I wouldn't want to spook the woolly mammoths.
You think this is all a joke?
Oh, please.  How am I supposed to keep a straight face when -- (gestures to the black-clad Malcolm) -- Johnny Cash here tells me I'm going to Skull Island?
 Ian's a very good friend of mine.
He doesn't need a friend, he needs a shrink.
I believe in him.
Come on, there's only one reason any of us are here.  His check cleared.
Drop the cynical pose.  You can't pull it off while playing Donkey Kong.
There it is!
Isla Sorna!
Be back in three days, but keep the satellite phone on and your radio tuned to the frequency I specified in case we need you sooner.
Don't worry.  I've lived around here all my life, these islands are completely --
-- safe.
Listen.  I know you all have probably concluded that I'm out of my mind.
That's all right, for now.  But just humor me and be careful.
Even if you think I'm harmless and deluded, I promise --
-- this place is for real.
Lindstradt air rifle.  Fires a subsonic Fluger impact-delivery dart.
I loaded the enhanced venom of Conus purpurascens, the South Sea cone shell.  Most powerful neurotoxin in the world.  Acts within a two-thousandth of a second.  Faster than the nerve-conduction velocity. The animal's down before it feels the prick of the dart.
 Is there an antidote?
Like if you shoot yourself in the foot?  Wouldn't matter.  You'd be dead  before you realized you'd accidentally pulled the trigger.
Oh --
-- my --
-- God!
It's beautiful!
Stegosaurus, family Stegosauridae, infraorder Stegosauria, suborder Thyreophora.  Length, adult male, estimate twenty-five to thirty feet.
 That was a pair bond!  A family group, even, long after that infant was nestbound!
I want to see the nesting ground!
Lone nest -- not colonial.  I don't see an egg clutch...
 The empty shells are crushed and trampled.  The young stay in the birth environment, that's conclusive!
Not without a shot of the nest.
She's gutty.
She's nuts.
Ian, you're not insane!  I'm so glad!
 Dr. Malcolm -- the world -- owes you an apology.
No more smoking.  We leave no scent of any kind.  No hair tonics, no cologne, seal all our food in plastic bags.  We will observe and document, but we will not interact.
That's a scientific impossibility, you know.  Heisenberg uncertainty principle.  Whatever you study, you also change.
What should I call this?  "Jurassic Pork?"
 And let's forget about the high hide. We can't do this kind of work up in a tower, we need to be out in the field, as close to the animals as possible.
I'm not surprised stegosaur lived in a family group, but there's never been anything in the fossil record to prove the carnivores did.
Why wouldn't they?  Look at hyenas, jackals, nearly all species of predator birds --
That doesn't say a thing about T-rex, they could have been rogues.  Robert Burke certainly thinks they were.
We've got to see one to find out. Is there any --
No way.
Oh, my God.
-- way we could safely --
Oh, no!
Fire!
A campfire?!
No!  Water mixes the smoke billow, use dirt!
Who the hell started a campfire?!
It was just to make lunch.
I wanted it ready when you got back.
Oh ... man.
You know you were putting yourself in a potentially dangerous situation, but you didn't bother to find out how dangerous before you leapt in. You don't have the faintest idea what's going on on this island!
 What do you want to do, Ian, lock her up for curiosity?  Where do you think she gets it?
 Do you have chromium tapes?  The others fog in high-
-humidity, I know.  Highest lead density on the market.
 We've got a lot of heavy marching ahead of us.  I'm not carrying anybody.
I can keep up.
You're going home.  I'm sending a radio call for the boats.  We'll all go down to the lagoon and wait for them.
Lighten up, Ian, you sound like a high school vice-principal.
I'm her father.
Sure, now.
Do you see any family resemblance here?
You can't stay, Kelly, that's it. It's too dangerous.
If it's so dangerous, why'd you bring any of us?
You're wrong, Dad.  I do know what's going on on this island.
How could you possibly?
Because you said so.  Maybe nobody else believed you, but I always did.
The kid scores with cheap sentiment.
Ian, if we recall the boat now, we've made two invasive landings in one day.  That'll have to go in any paper I write, and it will leave room for people to say our findings were contaminated.  You know the academic world as well as I do, once they smell blood in the water, you're dead.  Our presence has got to be one hundred percent antiseptic.  That means if we bend a blade of grass, we bend it right back the way it-
You were saying something about antiseptic?
Welcome to your dream come true, Dr. Burke.
I believe the large herbivores forage in open plains, like bison, which would explain the great variety of heat dots we're reading in the flatlands around this waterhole. Right -- here.
Then that's where we're going.
 Hadrosaurus!  Carinthosaurus! Maiasaurus!
This is as good a place as any for base camp.  First priority is the laser barriers, I want them all up and running in thirty minutes.  Half an hour, understand?
Cancel that, Dieter.
What?  Why?
Carnivores hunt near stream beds.  Do you want to set up base camp or an all-you-can-eat people bar?
 You heard his, Dieter.  Find a new spot.  And remember, we're after herbivores only -- no unnecessary risks.
Peter, if you want me to run your little camping trip, there are two conditions.  First -- I'm in charge, and when I'm not around, Dieter is.  Your job is to sign the checks, tell us we're doing a good job, and open your case of scotch when we have a good day.  Second condition -- my fee.  You can keep it.  All I want in exchange for my services is the right to hunt one of the tyrannosaurs.  A male.  Buck only.  Why and how are my business. If you don't  like either of those conditions, you're on your own.  Go ahead and set up your camp right here, or in a swamp, or in the middle of a rex nest, for all I care.  But I've been on too many safaris with rich dentists to listen to any more suicidal ideas.  Okay?
 Okay.
Good lad.
Pachycephalosaurus!
Carnivore?
 Huh?  No!  No, herbivore, late Cretaceous.  Very unusual plant eater, see that distinctive domed skull?  That's nine inches of solid bone.
 Just get them out of the way, Dieter.
COME ON, MOVE IT!!
Oh, for God's --
Dieter.  This is a round-up, not a war.  Use your powers of persuasion.
Come on, come on, don't have all day!
 See, the pachy's neck attaches at the bottom of its skull instead of the back of its head, as with reptiles.
So when it lowers its head, its neck lines up directly with its backbone --
Roland.
 Which is perfect for absorbing impact.
It matches the pictures.
It certainly does.
HEY!
Don't worry about us.  We'll catch up.
Where do you think you're going?!
To collect my fee.
Ajay.
I'm no tracker, but even I can read this spoor.
Do you wish to go where the animal has been, or where the animal is?
Why didn't you tell us about these guys, Ian?!
Because I didn't know!  I don't have the faintest idea what they're doing here.
 Ruining everything, that's what they're doing.  You could choke on the diesel smoke already!
Ian, nothing we observe will be valid if we're trailing along in the wake of an army.
"InGen."  What's InGen?
Where does it say that?
On the side of that one truck.
InGen is a genetics corporation, isn't it?
 Is that who we're really working for?!  Gene splicers?!
No!  We're an independently funded expedition.
Funded by whom?
John Hammond.
But he's the head of InGen!
You gotta be kidding.  You dragged me out of Greenpeace to be a corporate stooge?  You couldn't get anybody else?
Yeah, what have you done, Dad?
We'd better keep moving, or we'll lose them.
What are you doing to me, John?
It's the rex nest.
Make a blind here?  Wait for the buck to return?
 If the nest is upwind, so are we. When he comes back, he'll know we're here before we have a chance.  The truck --
-- is to get him to come where we want him.
LOOK AT THESE THINGS!
THEY'RE BEAUTIFUL, MAN, THEY'RE BEAUTIFUL!!!
FASTER!
Alive, Dieter, and uninjured!
Those are very expensive animals! Can you hear me?!
 Turn that off!
Easy -- easy -- not too close! Full extension!
Now!
Next case.
Carinthosaurus -- compsognathus -- triceratops -- pachycephalosaurus -- or small scavengers only.
Ludlow.  That's why Hammond was in such a hurry for me to get here.  He knew they were coming.
You okay?
 Heights, I can't help it.  Put your arm here, will you?
What do they want?
They want their money back.  To InGen, this island is nothing more than a bed investment.
We should get back to base camp. Eddie's waiting for us.
I can't believe Peter Ludlow's running all this.
He isn't.  Check out the guy walking past the fire.
I've seen him before.  In Brazil.  He and that guy with him were spearhunting jaguars.  Said it was immoral to go after them any other way.  He's not just a hunter, he's a philosopher.  Kind of guy who beats you up with your own argument.
He's the one in charge.
Well, if that's true -- the man in charge just left camp.
Then this is our chance.
Our chance to do what?
I don't know these guys, but I know 'em.  I've seen 'em on Japanese whalers, French barges trying to dump barrels of nuclear waste in the North Atlantic.  They're all the same. They spray us with water cannon when we try to stop 'em, sink our boats, and then call us crazy.
Nobody has to come with me.  I've done this before.
Why, Nick.  You are a tree-hugger.
There' no reason for name calling.
Dr. Juttson, please take Kelly back to camp right away.  Leave the other car for us and we'll meet you there in an hour or so.
What are you guys gonna do?
 Exactly what John Hammond wanted us to do.
Offering a little incentive.
What kind of gun is that?
My father's .600 Nitro Express.  Made in 1904.  Karimojo Bell gave it to him after he took down his last elephant.  8700 foot pound striking force.
How close do you have to be?
Forty yards.  Less, maybe.  I assume it'll take a slug in the brain case to bring him down.
Why not just use a scope and a poison dart and snipe him from a hill?
Or a laser beam from a satellite?
You rally think this'll draw the parent?
I once saw a bull elephant die charging a jeep.  All the jeep had done was startle the bull's calves. I saw a lioness carry wounded prey four and a half miles, all the way back to its den, just to teach its cubs how to finish off a kill.
Killing lessons?  Heartwarming.
Rex won't be any different.  It'll come.
You're kidding yourself.  An adult T-rex cares about one thing -- filling its own belly.  It acts the way people wish they could, that's why everyone's fascinated by it.  If people had the chance to see one dinosaur and one only, ninety-nine percent would --
Wait.  Why not?  Sedatives... growth inhibitors...
What?
I hadn't planned on bringing carnivores back because of the liability risk, but I only thought of adults, it never occurred to me --  You are a billion dollar idea, my little f-
What the hell you do that for?!
Had to.  To keep him still for the trip.
You've broken its leg!
We've got to transport it seven thousand miles.  Would you prefer it bit off the leg of a crew member?
Hang on.  We may encounter some turbulence.
If you're really interested in infants, we'll have better luck at the seaside, because the sands offer a cushioning surface where the egg clutches can -- can --
What in God's -- !
Last time I leave you in charge.
Sick bastards.
What in Christ's name is going on?!
Isn't it obvious?
We're not alone on this island.
Nick, thank God, we didn't know if --
Wait, don't ---
HOLY SHIT!!
Do we have anyone up there?
It has a broken leg!
So do it a favor and put it out of its misery!
No!  Get in the car before they hear us!
Ian, close the window, it's going to wake every predator in the jungle!
There they are!
What is that they have with them?
This is exceedingly unwise.
Too late to worry about that!  Hold him together, Nick!
Just do whatever you have to do and get it out of here as quickly as possible.
Okay, there's the metatarsals -- tibia, fibula -- there it is!  See it?  That's a fracture, just above the epiphysis.
That little black line?
That little black line means death for this infant.  The fibula won't heal straight, so the ankle joint can't pivot when he stands on his hind feet.  The baby won't be able to run, and probably can't even walk. It'll be crippled, and a predator will pick it off before it gets more than a few weeks old.
Can you set up?
 It has to be temporary, something that'll break apart and fall off as the animal grows...
Think fast, Sarah.
What are they doing?  Why don't they hurry?!
Give me the radio.
Give it more morphine!
We'll kill it with too much, we'll put it into respiratory arrest!  I'm almost done.  Damn it, I need another adhesive, something pliable I can --
Spit!
What is it?
Sarah, come in!
It's moving.  Fast.
Sarah, Malcolm, can you hear me?!
Hold it down, Nick!
I'm trying!
 Is anybody there?!
Ian, get the bottle of amoxicillin and fill a syringe!  Quick injection of antibiotics and I can get it out of here!
 SARAH OR IAN, ANSWER ME!
WHATEVER YOU BROUGHT INTO THE TRAILER, GET IT OUT NOW!
WE ESTIMATE TWO LARGE ADULTS HEADED IN YOUR DIRECTION!  I REPEAT --
Oh, Christ.
Let me talk to Kelly, is she--
What do they want?!
What do you think they want?!
That's impossible, they can't have the sensory equipment to track it all the way here!
Current evidence seems to be to the contrary, wouldn't you say?!  GIVE IT TO THEM!
Ready?
Wait!
 Born free, as free as the wind blows. As free as the grass grows --
Are you insane?!
I swear to God, it works with lions sometimes!  There we are -- your baby is free --
They're going back into the jungle.
Thank God.  Thank God.
Kelly?  Are you all right?
Uh huh.
Wait there.  I'll come up in a minute.  Don't move, understand?
I understand.
Note to Dr. Juttson -- Tyrannosaurus rex does nurture its young.
There's, uh -- there's an unwritten rule when a news crew is in a war zone.  You stop the van every two miles and decide whether or not to go on.  Whether or not you feel lucky. One "no" from anybody in the group and you turn around right there, no question asked, nobody embarrassed.  Well?  Do we go on? Immediately:
No.
No.
No way.
All right.  I'm satisfied with the evidence we have right now. I feel vindicated.  John Hammond will too.  Do you have enough to publish?
They will come after me.  But I can collect some stool samples, for DNA with that, Nick's tapes, and the rest of you to back me up, it should stand when we get back.
 Then the only thing left to do is make sure we do get back.  I'll call the mainland on the satellite phone and have them send the boat right now.  This expedition is over.
Oh, God.  I am so sorry.
What the hell is he sorry f-
HANG ON TO SOMETHING!
They're pushing us!
Oh, God.
What?!
They're pushing us over the cliff.
SARAH!  DON'T MOVE!
OH... GOD ... please...
Nick!  Grab the phone!
SARAH LOOK OUT!
Hang on -- hang on --
HEY!  HELLO?!
WE'RE IN HERE!  GET SOME ROPE!
Catch!
We're sliding!
Climbs up if you can!
Damn it!
 Eddie?
Oh, God.  Now what?
Are you all right?!  Anything broken?
I'm fine, I'm fine, I was scared, I thought you, are you okay?!
I'm fine... I'm fine...
 That's what you think.
Trespassing, sabotage -- you could go to jail just for being here, did you know that?
Don't start a legal argument with me, this island isn't your property, and neither are these animals!
What are you doing here, Burke? There's no TV cameras, what's the point?
Dr. Juttson, you exist outside the classroom.  I am amazed.
Are you looking for a problem?
 Everyone, keep your voices down!
Back off, Dieter.
Listen to me, by moving the baby rex into our camp, we changed the adults' perceived territory!
Their what?
 Oh, God.
That's why they persisted in destroying the trailers, they now feel they have to defend this entire area!  We're not safe here.
 Thanks to you people.
Hey, we came here to observe, you came here to strip-mine the place! It's a looter mentality, all you care about is what you can take.
None of that matters.  Our communications equipment's been destroyed.  If your radio and satellite phone were in those trailers that went off the cliff, and I'm guessing by the look on his face --
We are stuck here, ladies and gentlemen.  And we're stuck together.
If we can't stay in the rex's territory, we have to move tonight.
Move where?  Our boat's not coming for two days, your airlift is waiting for an order you have no way to send --
There's a communication center, here, in the old worker village.  Hammond put in some kind of renewable power source replenishing.  It may still work.  If we could get there, we could send a radio call for the airlift.
How far is the village?
I said if we could get there.
Well, how far is it?
A day's walk, maybe more.  That's not the problem.
What is?
The velociraptors.
Our infrareds show their nesting sites are concentrated in the island interior.  That's why we planned on keeping to the outer rim.
What are velociraptors?
Carnivores.  Pack hunters.  About six feet long, three or four hundred pounds, and very, very fast.
I think we can handle ourselves against them.
No.  I'm quite certain you can't.
Look, we have two choices.  We can hike back down to the lagoon, where we can sit for two days, in the open, next to a heavily used water source while we're waiting for your boat to arrive, or we can head for the village, where we might find some shelter and we can call for help.
We'd never make it past the raptors. Trust me, I have some experience in this matter.
That may be.  But you weren't with me at the time.
Load up.  Let's get this moveable feast underway.
Damn it.
You all right?
Wrong question?
You ever heard of Gambler's Ruin?
What's that?
A statistical phenomenon.  Says everything in the world goes in streaks.  It's real, you see it everywhere -- in weather, in river flooding, in baseball, in blackjack, in stock markets.  Once things go bad, they tend to stay bad.  Bad things cluster.  They go to hell together.
Feeling a bit blue, are we?
Just -- flawed.  Very deeply flawed.
Why did you come here?
So that others would know about this place?
Why should they?
Because it exists.
It'll still exit if they go on not knowing, won't it?
Yes.  And people will live in the absence of truth.
So the truth is more important to you than your life?
 I don't care about my life.  But if I'd ever thought for a second that she would be in danger --
She yours?
I'm afraid so.  I don't know what the hell I'm doing with kids.  I never should have had her.
Why are you here?
Somewhere on this island, there exits the greatest predator that ever lived.  And the second greatest predator must take him down.
But why?
You remember that guy, about twenty years ago, I forget his name, but he climbed Everest without any oxygen, came down almost dead.  And they asked him, "why did you go up there to die?"  And he said "I didn't.  I went up there to live."
 It's called self-testing.  But in your case, it sounds more like self-destruction.  A uniquely human characteristic.  In fact, human beings destroy things so well that I sometimes think that's our function. Maybe every few sons, some animal comes along that kills off the rest of the world, clears the decks, and lets evolution proceed to his next phase.  Maybe death and destruction are our job, maybe we're supposed to destroy ourselves and every other living thing that-
Tell you what.  You can see whatever you want to, to me, but you will not spew any more nihilist rants at anyone else in the group.  I'm fighting panic, and you push the wrong buttons.  Understand?
I don't think -- my dad doesn't think we're going to make it.
Your dad is wrong.  About a lot more than he knows.
I think you should call a break.
Another half hour.
Some of them won't make another half hour.  We didn't come this far to start dropping in the middle of the jungle.  If you don't call it, I will.
FIVE MINUTES BREAK!
I can't believe you're still angry about that.
You know, it's very easy to criticize the first person who studies something.
No, it's easy to criticize sloppy research and hasty conclusions.
You know, even if we do get those tapes back, people are going to say it's just another hoax.  Ian Malcolm's alien autopsy.
Maybe.  Maybe not.
Ian, they will misplace our evidence, shoot holes in our testimony, and say some special effects genius created the animals.  The only way people will ever believe that dinosaurs exist is if you dump a T-rex in the middle of times Square.
There's something more important that you should be thinking about instead.
Wait here for me, would ya Carter?
It's not polite to --
-- sneak up on people.
HEY!  CARTER!  YELL OR SOMETHING, I GOT TURNED AROUND IN HERE!
...Carter... me?...
Easy -- wait -- one more sec-
Break's over, move on!
How long ago was this?
Seven, eight minutes.
Then he's dead.  Nobody tells the little girl.  Last thing we need is screaming hysterics.
We have to send someone to look for him!
You go if you like, but we're not waiting for you.  MOVE IT OUT!!
You okay?
Looks like the worker village is down in there, about a mile and a half northeast from the base of these cliffs.
There must be a game trail, some kind of path that goes down there.
They'll have to rest before we look for it.  Eat.  Sleep.  Two hours. Then we hit it.
There you are.  Your dad's looking for you.
I doubt that.
Oh, come on.  Go talk to him.
Why?  He likes to be alone.  I can stay with you.
You hear something?
No.  I feel something.
Oh, no.
 ARE YOU OUT OF YOUR MIND?!
Get my weapon.
FOR CHRIST'S SAKE, DON'T RUN!
KELLY?  KEEEEELLLY?!
MALCOLM!  OVER HERE!
FASTER!!
 KELLY, UP HERE!
I gotta get down there!
SARAH KELLY COME HERE!
WHAT ARE YOU-
JUMP!
Shhhh... shhhh...
Get out of the way!
STOP IT YOU'RE PUSHED HER OUT STOP IT!
She's okay!  They'll stay in there, she's okay!
NO!  DON'T GO INTO THE LONG GRASS!
Elephant grass!
They gave up!  They're not chasing us!
How many rounds did you find for that weapon?
Four, counting the one in the chamber.
Don't let it out of your hands again. (to Sara, but looking at Kelly) Can the kid walk?
Ask her.
Can the kid walk?
I can.  I can walk.
We're going to find a path down into the interior of the island.  Load up whatever you think you need, and I mean need.  If you can't carry it indefinitely, don't bring it.  We'll hit the worker village in a couple hours and be out of here before dawn.
What is that?
Piss.
God help us.
I do not feel lucky.
Keep moving.
We made it!
The jungle.  It's always ready to return.
Where's the power and radio setup?
Operations building.  Far end of the street.
Lava?
No.
What are they?
I don't know.
The radio rig is inside.  It runs directly from the geothermal generator, so power shouldn't be a problem.
Good.
What's he got in there?
Piss.
What?
Don't ask me.  The guy's completely out to lunch.
What in God's name would he want with-
Tyrannosaur urine.  I don't want anything to do with it, and neither does any other animal on this island. This building is now demarcated as the rex's territory.  As long as you stay in that building, you'll all be safe until the helicopter comes.
Where are you going?
After the rex.  I saw a fresh kill back in the valley with tyrannosaur tracks all around it.  If I'm not back in time, don't wait for me.
You've got to be kidding.
Runs against my nature to hole up in a cave and wait.
Do you think the rex might have the infant with it?
Possible.
You know how to work a radio, don't you?
You're going too?
I lost everything I came after on this trip, but one T-rex in one theme park could single-handedly bail InGen out of Chapter 11.
This is the broadcast frequency.  ID yourself as "Harvest Leader."  You know what to tell 'em.
You gentlemen feel you have to do this now?
Now's the perfect time.  The animal just fed, so it won't stalk us for food.  Predators don't hurt when they're not hungry.
No.
Only humans do.
 CQ, CQ.  This is InGen Operation Harvest Leader to Harvest Base.  Come in, please.
Go ahead, Harvest Leader.
We're downwind.  Good.
We took to the rock.
Why?
Wind shift.
It's... behind... us.
 It's just fed.  It won't attack unless it's threatened.  Don't move.
If I don't move, I can't shoot it.
Let it go, Peter.  The animal won.
NO!
What's going on?!
There they are!
No LZ in the street, too much debris!
Check the other buildings!
There it is!
Ian.  It's guano.
What?
These formations.  They're dried --
Birdshit?
Who cares?  Let's go!
Kelly?!  KELLY?!
Come on!
Where's Kelly?
She's with Sarah!
We can't stay in here!
We're sure as hell not going back out there"
This is single-wall construction! It's just a shack!
It'll hold!
For sixty seconds, maybe!  Look at this! (RAPS on the door with his knuckles) You could-
 Head for the roof!
I have to find Kelly!
I think she's with Sarah!
DAMN IT, BE SURE!!
It's too wide!
Help me push this!
It's afraid to come onto the roof!
Something's wrong.
Look!  Sarah!
SHE'S ALONE!!
Kelly!  KELLY!
Dad!
Come on!
Where's Kelly?
Where's Ian?
CLIMB!
DAD, COME ON!
FASTER!
DAD!
GET UP!
LET'S GO LET'S GO LET'S GO!!
HURRY!  THE ROOF'S GIVING WAY!
KELLY!
Kelly!  I'm coming!
Give me a ladder!
GO GO GO GO GOG GO!
We're snagged on something!
Hang on!  If I tip it hard, I can cut 'em with the rotors!
NO!  Don't!  They're not attacking!
They're protecting their nest. That's all.  That's all they're doing.
Thank you.  Kelly, thank God.  Thank God for you...
Hello, Lex.  Tim.
This is Kelly.  My daughter.
I'm glad you came, Dr. Malcolm
I'm sorry about your grandfather.
Thank you.
We were going to call you, in a few days.  Tim and I have been thinking, and we've decided we want people to know about the island.  About what we all saw.
We think it's something our grandfather would want us to do.
 Why?
Because it's true.
I know, Lex.  But even if we're the only ones who ever know, it'll still be true.  You see, I've decided that if the world found out about what your grandfather created, it wouldn't be around for very long.
But -- it was real.  You can't let people go on saying it's not.
That's the thing about reality.
Even when people stop believing in it, it doesn't go away.
Do you feel the cold wind blowing on your face?  That's real.
Do you see the four of us, standing here together, alive?  That's real.
And maybe that's still that matters.
