 I love you, too!
 I'll see you tonight.
"Elle and Warner forever". Aww...
Jeremy, enough! I am not going to formal with you.
Can someone please tell Rick that he is not the only Sigma Chi with a big penis?
You guys are so sweet!
But I'm not positive it's gonna happen tonight --
Helloo... he just had lunch with his grandmother. You know he got "The Rock".
Why else would she have flown in from Newport? It's not like she'd Fed Ex a six carat diamond.
 You think?
I can't believe you're getting engaged!
C'mon -- you have to help me pick out the perfect outfit.
Amy, what's wrong?
I don't really -- know anyone.
 That's because you spend too much time in the library. Come with me.  I'll meet you outside.
Brandon, Jason, Grant -- this is Amy. Why don't you tell her about the time you guys went golfing naked?
It was classic. Jason hit with wood all day.
And we never ran out of balls --
Too demure?
I think you should go with red. It's the color of confidence.
Well, I don't want to look like I know what's coming...
I don't understand why you're completely disregarding your signature color.
He's proposing! I can't look like I would on any date. This is the date. The night I'll always remember. I want to look special. Bridal... but not like I suspect anything.
 There's nothing I love more than a dumb blonde with daddy's plastic.
I can't wait to see you wearing The Rock!
What if -- you know -- it's not the night?
Why else would he be taking you to The Ivy? You've been dating for a year -- it's not like he's trying to impress you.
Elle, you've heard the man pass gas in his sleep. That practically means you're pre-engaged.
Did you see this one? We just got it in yesterday.
Is this a low-viscosity rayon?
Uh, yes -- of course.
With half-loop top-stitching on the hem?
 Absolutely. It's one of a kind.
It's impossible to use a half-loop topstitch on low-viscosity rayon. It would snag the fabric. And you didn't just get this in, because I remember it from the June Vogue a year ago, so if you're trying to sell it to me at full price, you picked the wrong girl.
 Nice try...
 Girls, this is it. In a few hours, I'll be the future Mrs. Warner Huntington III.
 He's here!
You're beautiful.
So are you!
 You ready?
I am so ready.
Here's to us.
The reason I wanted to come here tonight was to discuss our future.
I'm fully amenable to that discussion.
I mean, we're having a lot of fun now -- but things are gonna be different when I'm at Harvard. Law school is a completely different world. I need to be serious.
Of course.
My family expects a lot from me. And I expect a lot from me. I plan on running for office some day.
And I fully support that.
But the thing is, if I'm gonna be a senator by the time I'm thirty -- I can't keep dicking around.
I completely agree.
That's why I think it's time for us to --
I think we should break up.
What?
I'm sorry, Elle, I just --
You're breaking up with me?!  I thought you were proposing.
Proposing?! Elle, If I'm going to be a politician, I need to marry a Jackie, not a -- Marilyn.
 You're breaking up with me because I'm too -- blonde?
That's not entirely --
Then what? My boobs are too big?
Elle -- no -- your boobs are fine --
So when you said you'd always love me, you were just "dicking around"?
I do love you, Elle. I just can't marry you. You have no idea the pressure I'm under. My family has five generations of senators. My brother is in the top three at Yale Law. He just got engaged to a Vanderbilt, for crissakes.
It's not like I have a choice, sweetheart.
C'mon. Let me take you home.
No.
Elle -- it's twenty miles back to campus.
Elle, believe me, I never expected to be doing this, but I think it's the right thing to do.
How can it be the right thing if we're not together?
I have to think about my future. And what people expect from me.
So you're breaking up with me because you're afraid your family won't like me?  Everybody likes me!
East coast people are different.
Just because I'm not a Vanderbilt, all of a sudden I'm white trash? I grew up in Bel Air, Warner! Across the street from Aaron Spelling! I think most people would agree that's way better than a Vanderbilt --
I told you, Elle. I need someone -- serious.
I'm seriously in love with you -- Isn't that enough?
I'm sorry.
Why are you back so soon?
Did he forget the ring?
Elle?
Where's the Rock?
We're not engaged. It's over!
He broke up with me!
Is it a Kappa?
It's not a Theta --
No -- it's just -- not me.
I'm canceling the mixer. We'll blacklist Sigma Chi.
Thank you, Serena, but I don't think it'll do any good.
What happened?
I don't know! Everything was normal at first and then he said he needed someone more --  Serious!
Serious?! Who the hell does he think he is? You're the most popular month on the USC calendar!
Oh, he is so over on this campus.
I just don't understand what went wrong --
Maybe it's the grandmother. Have you ever met her?
Last month on his birthday. And she liked me! She said I looked like Britney Spears. Why would you say that to someone you didn't like?
How could this happen?
I don't know! I don't know anything any more!  I just need to be by myself.
Are you sure?
We still love you. Sisters forever!
 Thank you. I love you, too.
Oh, God. What if Josh doesn't think I'm serious enough?
Helloo... you let him have anal sex with you.  Helloo... you let him videotape you diddling yourself.
You're right. Phew!
Elle?
 Didn't you hear?
I just love him so much! I loved him the first moment I saw him. He's beautiful and smart and someone I totally respect. And I did everything I could to make him love me, but it wasn't enough. Now what am I supposed to do? I planned my whole future around him. My life was going to be all about Warner. Now what's it going to be about?
 Bullshit!
Honey, stop! You have to leave this room -- it's been a week.
So?
What's the thing that always makes us feel better, no matter what?
Cunnilingus?
No -- the thing after that.
It was awful. We all thought she'd be the first to walk down the aisle and now she's totally adrift.
Oh, my God!
Do you know who this is?
No.
It's Warner's older brother!
Who?
He just got engaged to this -- this very unfortunate-looking girl.  "Third year Yale Law student Putnam Bowes Huntington III and his fiancee Layne Walker Vanderbilt, first year Yale Law."
This is the type of girl Warner wants to marry. This is what I need to become to be serious.
Butt ugly?
No -- a law student.
Elle? (turning back to her nail technician) She'll never get him back with those cuticles.
 Harvard Law School?
That's right.
But it's a top three school --
 I have a 4.0.
Yes, but your major is Fashion Merchandising. Harvard won't be impressed that you aced "History of Lycra". What are your backups?
I don't need backups. Harvard is the school I'm going to.
Well, then. You'll need excellent recommendations from your professors, a heck of an admissions essay and at least a one-seventy-five on your LSATs.
 I once had to judge a Theta Chi Tighty- Whitey contest. Trust me -- I can handle anything.
What are you doing?!
Reading about the LSATs.
 My cousin had them. Apparently you get a really bad rash on your --
The LSATs are an exam.
Girls -- I'm going to Harvard!
What, like on va-kay?
Let's all go! Road trip!
Wait -- Cecil has a condo in Tahoe. Let's go there!
No -- I'm going to law school at Harvard.
Why?!
I mean, I know you're upset and all, but can't you just take a sedative?
Once Warner sees me as a serious law student, he'll want me back. It's a completely brilliant plan!
But isn't it kind of hard to get into law school?
I have the highest GPA in Delta Gamma!
Here. You're gonna need this.
Your scrunchie?
My lucky scrunchie. It helped me pass Spanish.
You passed Spanish because you gave Professor Montoya a hand-job after the final.
 Yeah, luckily.
 My name is Elle Woods and for my admissions essay, I'd like to tell all of you at Harvard why I'm going to make an amazing lawyer.
As president of my sorority, I'm skilled at commanding the attention of a room and discussing important issues.
It has come to my attention that the maintenance staff is switching our toilet paper from Charmin to generic. All those opposed to chafing, please say "aye".
 I'm able to recall hundreds of important details at the drop of a hat.
 Elle, do you know what happened on "Days of Our Lives" yesterday?
Why, yes, Margot, I do. Once again, we joined Hope in the search for her identity. As you know, she's been brainwashed by the evil Stefano --
 And the laws and bi-laws of civil obedience are crucial to my life --
 No shoving on the skate path! City ordinance 22G!
I feel confident using legal jargon in daily life.
I object!
 I've seen every episode of "The Practice" and I'm even on speaking terms with Dylan McDermott.
There he is!
Pull up next to him!
Dylan! We love you!
 I'm totally focused and goal-oriented. Plus I'm able to sway people with my very convincing arguments.
Calvin Klein's spring line is atrocious. Don't you agree?
 Absolutely!
It's here!
One seventy-five... one seventy- five...
 And that's why you should vote for me. Elle Woods. Future lawyer. For the Class of 2003.
 Law school?
It's a perfectly respectable place...
Sweetheart, you don't need law school. Law school is for people who are boring and ugly and serious. And you, button, are none of those things.
You were first runner-up in the Miss Hawaiian Tropic contest. Why throw all that away?
Because this is what I want. I've worked hard for it. Don't you understand that this is important to me?
Going to Harvard is the only way I can get the love of my life back!
Can't you just suck his wiener?  Can't you just get your nose done?
We're here!
This way, guys!
Whose knob did she honk to get in here?
Class schedule, map, book list.
Has Warner Huntington checked in yet?
 Uh, no. Maybe you should try the Lido deck.
Wait -- my social events schedule is missing.
Your what?
You know -- mixers, formals, beach trips.
 There's a pizza welcome lunch in twenty minutes. Does that count?
 I guess it'll have to...
What the hell was that?
 Malibu Barbie lives.
I have a Masters in Russian Literature, a Ph.D in Biochemistry, and for the last eighteen months, I've been de-worming orphans in Somalia.
Ph.D from Berkeley in Women's Studies -- emphasis in the History of Combat. And last year, I led the march for Lesbians Against Drunk Driving.
I've got an MBA from Wharton, worked on Wall Street for four years, mushed in three ididarods and I've figured out how to crash the stock market in Sri Lanka if any of you want to get together later.
I'm a Gemini. I have a Bachelors degree from USC, where I was Sigma Chi Sweetheart and president of Delta Gamma, and last year -- I was Homecoming Queen.
Oh!  Two weeks ago, I saw Cameron Diaz at Fred Segal -- and talked her out of buying a truly heinous angora sweater! Whoever said that orange is the new pink is seriously disturbed.
Wish me luck, Underdog. It's my first class as a serious law student.
 I totally look the part!
 Hello there...
 Elle?!
Warner?! Oh my God, I completely forgot you were going here!
What're you talking about? You're not here to see me?
No, silly. I go here.
 You go where?
Harvard. Law school.
You got into Harvard Law?
 What, like it's that hard?
Oops! Time for class. Meet me after? On the benches?
Uh -- sure.
If you're looking for the best seat, I hear the front row is the place to be.
Thanks.
A legal education means you will learn to speak in a new language. You will be taught to achieve insight into the world around you, and to sharply question what you know.
The seat you've picked is yours for the next nine months of your life. Enjoy it. And those of you in the front row, beware...
"The law is reason free from passion." Does anyone know who spoke those immortal words?
Yes?
 Aristotle.
Are you sure?
Yes?
Would you be willing to stake your life on it?
I think so...
How about --
-- his life?
 I don't know.
Well, I recommend knowing before speaking. The law leaves much room for interpretation -- but very little for self-doubt.
And you were right. It was Aristotle.
I assume you've all read pages 1-48 and are now well-versed in subject matter jurisdiction.
Who can tell us about Gordon v. Steele?
Ivan Greenstein?
Gordon sued her doctors for malpractice.
And what did the dispute entail?  Let's call on someone in the hot zone. Elle Woods?
Uh... I wasn't aware that we had an assignment.
 Sarah Knottingham?
Do you think it's acceptable that Ms. Woods is unprepared?
No, I don't.
Would you support my decision to ask her to leave and return to class only when she is prepared?
Absolutely.
Now, Ms. Knottingham, did diversity jurisdiction exist in this case?
Are you okay?
Do they just -- put you on the spot like that? Like, all the time?
The professors? Yeah, they tend to do that. Socratic method.
And if you don't know the answer, they just kick you out?
You have Stromwell.
 Did she do that to you, too?
No, but she made me cry once. Not in class -- I waited until I got to my room, but yeah, she can pretty much shrivel your balls -- or you know, your whatevers.
 Neat.
Don't worry. It gets better. Who else do you have?
Donovan, Royalton and Levinson.
Speak up in Donovan's class. He likes people with an opinion. Sit in the back for Royalton. He tends to spit when he talks about products liability.
And make sure you read the footnotes in Levinson's class. That's where all her exam questions come from.
Wow. I'm glad I met you.
Oh, and getting one of Stromwell's daily quotes right is almost as important as acing the mid-term. But you didn't hear it from me.
Are you a third-year?
Hey.
Hi!
Good luck.
 Thanks again for your help!
So -- uh -- how was your first class?
Fine. Except for this horrible girl who made me look bad in front of my Civ Pro professor. But no biggie. You're here now.  How was your summer?
 Good. Good.
Do anything exciting?
 Urn, hey, have you met Sarah?
Hi. Sarah Knottingham.
 You know her?
She's --
-- I'm his fiancee.
 I'm sorry, I just hallucinated.
Sarah was my girlfriend at prep school. We got back together over the summer at my grandmother's birthday party.
Warner told me all about you. You're famous at our Club. She says it in a way that is anything but flattering. In fact, it's completely condescending.
 But he didn't tell me you'd be here.
I didn't know --
Excuse me.
 I thought you said she was pretty.
Bad day?
You can't even imagine.
Spill.
I worked really hard to get into law school -- I blew off Spring Break and Greek Week to study for the LSATs, I completely neglected my Homecoming Queen duties, I hired a Coppola to direct my admissions video -- all so I could get my boyfriend Warner back and now he's engaged to this awful girl Sarah so it was all for nothing! I wish I'd never even come to Harvard.
After you went to all that trouble?
Well, what am I supposed to do? He's engaged! She's got the family six- carat on her bony, unpolished finger.
You're asking the wrong girl. I'm with my guy eight years and then one day it's "I met someone else. Move out."
 What'd you do?
Cried a lot and gained twenty pounds. Dewey kept the trailer and my precious baby Rufus. I got jackcrap.
 I didn't even get to go to his birthday party.
No!
What could I do?  He's a man who followed his pecker to greener pastures. I'm a middle- aged high-school dropout with stretch marks and a fat ass. Happens every day. At least to women like me.
That's terrible!
So, what's this Sarah got that you don't? Three tits?
She's from Connecticut. She belongs to his stupid country club.
Is she as pretty as you?
 I'm not pretty -- I'm genetically blessed.
Is she?
She could use some mascara and some serious highlights, but she's not completely unfortunate-looking.
Hello, ladies.
See ya later.
 Could I be anymore goddamn spastic?  So you're sure, this Warner guy is "the one"?
Definitely! I love him!
If a girl like you can't hold on to her man -- then there sure as hell isn't any hope for the rest of us. What're you waiting for? Steal the bastard back.
Warner?
I should warn you that in addition to competing against each other for the top grade in this class, you'll also be competing for one of my firm's highly coveted four internship spots next year where you will get to assist on actual cases. Let the bloodbath begin. Now, let's commence with our usual torture --
Ms. Woods --
This should be amusing.
Would you rather have a client who committed a crime malum in se or malum prohibitum?
Neither.
Why not?
I'd rather have a client who's innocent.
Dare to dream, Ms. Woods. Ms. Knottingham? Which would you prefer?
Malum prohibitum. Because the client would've committed a regulatory infraction as opposed to a dangerous crime.
Yes? Ms. Woods?
I changed my mind. I'd pick the dangerous one.
I'm not afraid of a challenge.
I'm here to join your study group. And look! I brought sustenance!
 Elle, what're you doing here?
Who's first?
Our group is full.
Oh, God, was this like an RSVP thing?
No, it's like a smart people thing. And like Sarah said, we're full.
Come on, we can make room for one more.
We've already assigned the outlines, and everyone has started theirs.
 Besides, you wouldn't let the fat guy join.
He tried to watch me take a shower!
The answer is no.
Then I guess I'll leave you alone.
Maybe there's a sorority you could join instead.
 You know, if you'd come to a Rush party, I would've at least been nice to you.
Before you voted against me and called me a dyke behind my back?
I don't use that word. Only mean people use that word. You must've heard it from Sarah.
 It's Elle!  Guess what I'm doing right this second?
Power yoga?
Picking out my wedding dress!
What?!
Josh proposed!
 No way --
 So, you have The Rock yet?
Almost.
Well, hurry up so you can come home! We miss you!
I miss you guys! The people here are so vile! Hardly anyone even talks to me unless it's to say something that's not nice. Law school sucks!
Oh, my God! I completely forgot to tell you!
What?
I got bangs!
 Really --
 Keep June first open -- you're one of my bridesmaids. And give Warner our love.
I will...
It's not just any Halloween party. It's a "Come as Your Favorite Defendant" party.
That's genius.
 No way! Someone at this school is actually having a party?
No.
You must've heard us wrong.
Sorry. Looks like you'll be staying home tonight. Alone.
I can't believe this. Not only do I not have Warner, but I'm unpopular!
But I wasn't invited.
You really think I should?
The English language is all about subliminal domination. Take the word "semester". It's a perfect example of this school's discriminatory preference of semen to ovaries. That's why I'm petitioning to have next term be referred to as Winter Ovester.
Hey, Elle -- I've been meaning to ask you  -- are those real?
Enid, please -- silicone is so 90's.
 Thanks for inviting me, girls. This party is super fun.
You're supposed to be dressed as a famous defendant.
I am. Didn't you hear about the Playboy Bunny who slit her ex- boyfriend's new fiancee's throat with a broken wine glass? It was tragic.
Hey, O.J.
Wow. You're a walking felony.
Thank you. Having fun?
 Now I am.
 I feel like we've barely spent any time together since we got here.
That's because I spend all my time with case studies and hypos.
Tell me about it. I can't imagine doing all this and Donovan's internship next year.
 Elle, c'mon, there's no way you'll get the grades to qualify for one of those spots. You're not smart enough.
I didn't mean --
 Am I on glue, or did I not get into the same law school you did, Warner?
 Well, yeah, but --
But what? We took the same LSAT, we take the same classes --
I just don't want to see you get your hopes up. You know how you get.
I'll never be good enough for you, will I?
I give her two more weeks.
Two and a half?
If she spreads her legs, maybe --
 Only if I'm feeling generous.
What is this?
We're betting on how much longer you're going to last.
 What?
Look around, Elle. Do you actually think you belong here?
 Why wouldn't I?
Because the rest of us provide some worthwhile value to society?
Hold on, now -- every society needs a bimbo. Who are we supposed to sleep with after we get rich?
You know what? All of you can just kiss my ass.
 You're about to see just how valuable Elle Woods can be.
Don't ask.
I wasn't gonna --
And the purpose of "diminished capacity" is?
To negate mens rea?
"A failure to act can constitute the actus reus for accomplice liability if the defendant has the legal duty to intervene, but fails to do so."
So you've filed a claim. Now what?
Ms. Woods?
Don't you also need to have evidence?
Meaning?
Meaning you need -- reasonable belief that your claim would have, like, evidentiary support?
And what kind of evidentiary support does this case require? Let's ask Mr. Harriman, who clearly believes that I might be hungry.
According to Swinney v. Neubert, Swinney, who was also a private sperm donor, was allowed visitation rights as long as he came to terms with the hours set forth by the parents. So, if we're sticking to past precedent, Mr. Latimer wasn't stalking -- he was clearly within his rights to ask for visitation.
But Swinney was a one-time sperm donor, and in our case, the defendant was a habitual sperm donor, who also happens to be harassing the parents in his quest for visitation.
But, without this man's sperm -- the child in question would not exist.
Now you're thinking like a lawyer.
Ms. Woods?
 The idiot speaks.
Although Mr. Huntington makes an excellent point, I have to wonder if the defendant kept a thorough record of each sperm emission made throughout his life?
 Why do you ask?
Well, unless the defendant attempted to contact every single one-night- stand to determine if a child resulted in those unions -- then he has no parental claim whatsoever over this child. Why this sperm? Why now?
For that matter, all masturbatory emissions where his sperm was clearly not seeking an egg could be termed reckless abandonment.
I believe you've just won your case.
You did well today.
I did?
You're applying for my internship, aren't you?
I don't know --
You should. Do you have a resume?
 I do.
It's pink.
And engraved... Gives it that extra little something, doesn't it?  See you tomorrow!
I brought you the Windham notes.
 You think she just woke up one morning and said, "I think I'll go to law school today!"?
Aside from that lapse in judgement -- she's got potential.
You showed up Warner in class? You're supposed to be showing up Sarah.
I couldn't help it! It was the most fun I've had since I've been in law school. Not only was I good enough for Warner -- I was better than him. He has to see serious I am now. Even Donovan was impressed, and he's a total hard-ass.
You ready?
No.
Yes, you are. Go -- you can do this.
 What the hell do you want? We're eating dinner.
I just --
You just thought you'd come over and show me what I'm definitely not missing?
What the hell happened to you? You get a job at a donut shop?
That's not what --
How many times you gonna show up here, beggin' me to take you back?
Dewey Newcomb?
Who's askin'?
I'm Elle Woods. Ms. Bonafante's attorney.
Under state law, you and Ms. Bonafante had a common law marriage which entitles her to the benefits of property law and an equitable division of assets.
 Come again?
Due to the fact that you retained the residence, Ms. Bonafante is entitled to full ownership of the canine property in question and we will be enforcing said ownership immediately.
Huh?
Tell him, Paulette.
I'm taking the dog dumbass. (calling into the trailer) C'mere, baby, Mommy's here!
We did it!
God, that felt great!
Look at him. He's still scratching his head.
Which must be a nice vacation for his balls...
And now Mommy's got somebody to eat dinner with again. You don't care what Mommy's butt looks like, do you?
"An image and a good hook can get you into a room -- but something has to keep you in that room."
Mr. Greenstein?
Judge Sandra Day O'Connor?
Close...
Ms. Woods?
Madonna?
Damn. Thought I'd get everyone on that one.
What's going on?
Donovan's firm is defending a major murder case and his caseload is so heavy he's taking on first year interns.
He chose them already?
We got it!
The competition must not have been that stiff.
Why? Enid got a spot?
Hey! Watch your hands, Mr. Grabass.
 That only leaves one for --
 Me?!
 Remember the time after Winter Formal? When we spent four incredible hours in the hot tub...?
This is way better than that.  Excuse me. I have some shopping to do.
You look -- nice.
Thank you.
There's your office, there's the bathroom, there's the coffee machine. There's Gerard, Dick and Bobby.
They're the other associates on the case. Ask them all your stupid questions, save the smart ones for me.
We're defending Brooke Windham, whose very wealthy husband was found shot to death in their Beacon Hill mansion.
Gold digger?
You'd think so, since the stiff was sixty, but she was rich on her own. Some kind of fitness empire. You can buy her exercise tapes on infomercials.
Wait a minute -- are we talking about Brooke Daniels?
Maiden name -- Daniels.  You know her?
She was a Delta Gamma! Not in my pledge class or anything -- she graduated five years ahead of me. But I used to take her class at the LA Sports Club. She's amazing!
Amazing how?
She could make you drop three pounds in one class. She's completely gifted!
Well, in all likelihood, she's completely guilty as well. She was seen standing over her husband's dead body.
By who?
 Whom?
His twenty-seven year old daughter and the pool boy.
Maybe she found him like that.
That's the story she'll be telling the jury. We just have to prove it.
Sorry I'm late.
This is Emmett Kerrigan, another associate. Top three in his class and former editor of Harvard Law Review. You've probably seen him lurking around campus doing my research.
Or napping on the quad.
 What about the murder weapon?
The gun is missing. The coroner said he'd been dead thirty minutes dead when the cops arrived -- giving Brooke plenty of time to stash it.
There's no way Brooke could've done this -- Exercise gives you endorphins, endorphins make you happy -- happy people don't kill their husbands!
You don't really believe she's innocent?
Of course, I do!
Then we may actually have a case.
What alibi?
I can't tell you.
You understand you're on trial for murder?
I didn't do it! I walked in, saw my husband lying on the floor, bent down to check his heart, screamed my head off and Chutney and Enrique ran inside.
Where they saw you standing over the body covered in his blood.
Why would I kill my husband?
Insurance? A love affair? Pure unadulterated hatred? Believe me, the DA will come up with plenty of reasons.
I loved him!
He was thirty-four years older than you. That doesn't sound so good to a jury.
Then show them a picture of his cock. They might put a few things together.
Brooke, I believe you. But a jury is gonna want an alibi.
I can't give you that. And if you put me on the stand, I'll lie.
Were you with another man?
Go to hell.
I'll take that as a no.
Are we done for today?
I believe we are.
Hey -- I know you.
I'm a Delta Gamma and I'm a huge fan of yours!
You took my class in LA. You had the best high kick I've ever seen. Are you one of my lawyers?
Sort of.
Well, thank God one of you has a brain.
I feel so bad for her. I mean, she's in jail! And she's innocent. But I'm the only one who believes her. Donovan totally thinks she's guilty.
That's because men are big, fat retards who don't -- Oh, my God...
Afternoon, ladies.
It's him!
It's who?
I've got a package.
 He's got a package.
How ya doin' today?
Fine?
Take it easy.
So, this is the only interaction you two have ever had?
No. Sometimes I say "Okay" instead of "Fine".
Have you ever considered asking him if he'd like a cold beverage? Or perhaps a neck massage?
What's the point?  Look at me.
I am. And I'm looking at a beautiful, fabulous, sexy woman.
Good one.
Trust me. You've got the equipment, you just need to read the manual.
I'm going to show you a little maneuver my mother taught me when I was in junior high. In my experience, it has a 98% success rate in getting a man's attention and when used appropriately -- an 83% rate of return on a dinner invitation.
It's called the "Bend & Snap".  "Oh, look! There's something on the floor that I need to pick up!" Bend...
And snap! Now you try.
Bend... and snap!
Good. Now this time, put a little arch in your back and maybe get your footing more solid.
Perfect!
Like this?
Good.
But cock that knee.
Am I doing it right?
More snap, less bend.
C'mon -- everyone try!
Now everyone together.
Bend --
And snap !
Oh, my God! The Bend & Snap!  Works every time...
I got out of the shower, walked downstairs, saw her standing over my father, and called the police.
Did she have a weapon in her hand?
No.
Was there any reason for you to believe she had discarded a weapon?
Uh, yeah, because the bitch shot him.
Was there any evidence that Mrs. Windham shot him?
 His dead body with a bullet in it.
What did you see when you entered the house?
I saw Mrs. Windham standing over the body of Mr. Windham.
Was she carrying a weapon?
No, she was crying her eyes out.
So she was distraught that her husband was dead?
Oh, yes. Mrs. Windham is the most sweet, wonderful woman I know. I have loved her since the day she hired me. She could never do something this awful. I know this because we are very close.
She's screwing the pool boy.
There is no way a Delta Gamma would sleep with a man in a shiny shirt. Warner, back me up here.
I hate to agree  but I don't see the two of them actually --  -- doing it.
Women like that will screw anything.
So, because she's beautiful and has a good body, she's easy? What book of feminist theory did you read that in, Enid?
Okay, if Brooke didn't kill the guy, who did?
My money's on the angry daughter or the ex-wife.
Chutney has a trust fund. She didn't need the insurance payoff or the inheritance.
What about her mother?
Covered. She was in Aspen at the time. Ten people saw her downing cosmopolitans at the Caribou Club.
All I know is -- it's not Brooke.
That's touching, Elle, but we need an alibi.
I'm here to see Brooke Windham.
Licensed attorney or family member?
Uh -- family.
Relation?
I'm her sister.
Name?
Delta. Gamma.
Are you okay? You look so sad... and so orange.
I'm glad it's you and not Donovan.
He means well. He's really brilliant and all.
He better be, for what I'm paying him.
I brought you some necessities. Pink sheets. Aromatherapy candles. Loofah. And The Bible.
You're an angel.
But I have to tell you the real reason I'm here. Professor Donovan says we really, really need your alibi.
Elle, I can't. You don't understand.
Who could better understand than me?
It's so shameful...
Whatever it is -- it could save you.
That's just it -- it would ruin me!
How?
I have made my fortune on my ability to teach women how to perfect their bodies with the Brooke's Butt Buster workout.
I know! You helped me go from a six to a four!
On the day of Heyworth's murder, I was --
-- getting liposuction.
No!
 I'm a fraud! But it's not like normal people can have this ass! If my fans knew, I'd lose everything. I've already lost my husband. I rather be in jail then lose my reputation!
Your secret is safe with me.
We've got two interviews tomorrow that Dick and Bobby are gonna handle, and the ex-wife in an hour.
Sarah, can you grab me some coffee?
And according to this communique from the prison, our client apparently had a visit from her sister? A Miss Delta Gamma --
Anyone you know?
I went to get her alibi.
Did you get it?
Yes. But I can't tell you what it is.
Why the hell not?
I promised her I'd keep it secret. I can't break the bonds of sisterhood!
Fuck sisterhood. This is a murder trial, not some scandal at the sorority house. I want the alibi.
I can't give it to you. All I can tell you is that she's innocent.
Mr. Donovan? Mrs. Windham Vandermark is on line two.
Someone reason with her while I take this.
Are you crazy? Tell him the alibi.
No!
We're gonna lose the case if you don't.
Then we're not very good lawyers.
 If you tell him, you'll probably make summer associate. Who cares about Brooke? Think about yourself.
I gave her my word, Warner.
The ex-wife seems to be unconcerned with the fact that her interview is today. She's at a spa in the Berkshires.
A spa?  Isn't that like, your Mother-Ship?
I can go if you want.
Why you?
 Have you ever been to a spa?
And subscribe to the doctrine of self-hatred imposed upon my gender by male delusions of the way women are supposed to look?  Twice.
Go with her.
Explain to me why you're so anti- Brooke.
Uh, for starters, she won't give us an alibi --
Aside from that.
She's completely untrustworthy.
Why?
She married an old man, she's made a living on telling women they're too fat, she hawks her crap on the Home Shopping Network...
A) He's an old man with a really big penis. B) She never told me I was fat. And C) Victoria Principal sells on that network.
And D) Brooke is obviously hiding something.
But maybe it's not what you think.
But maybe it is --
You're kind of being a butt-head right now.
 How do you figure?
Because people aren't always what they seem to be and you refuse to see that. Have a little faith. You might be surprised.
I can't believe you called me a butthead. No one's called me a butt- head since ninth grade.
Maybe not to your face...
We have two o'clock massages. Kerrigan and Woods.
Go on back.
Oh, and my friend Katherine Windham Vandermark is here somewhere and I'm supposed to meet her for a Pilates class. Do you have her schedule?
 She's in the mud room until four.
Damn. We can't see her for an hour?
No, she can't move for an hour.
Mrs. Windham Vandermark?
We're here from Austen, Platt, Jaret & Donovan --
 She's naked.
 I'll cover her -- parts.
Well, that's what we're trying to prove didn't happen. Do you have any reason to believe it did?
 She's not!
Did your daughter ever say anything to you about Brooke and Heyworth's relationship?
I' m sure that was very awkward for Chutney.  Much as it is for me, hearing you tell about it.
Why do you say that?
 Yes...
Hovering?
How can you still believe she's innocent?
You're going to trust the word of a woman who named her child after a condiment? She's ly-ing.
And you know this for a fact?
Did you see the icky black color of her hair?
So?
I never trust a woman who's not blonde. Except for my friend Serena, but that's only because she's a blonde at heart. That's the whole reason I'm starting the Blonde Legal Defense Fund.
The what?
Blondes are discriminated against worldwide! Brooke's a blonde, and people are saying she's sleeping with the cheesy pool boy and shooting her husband. If she was a mousy brunette, it would be, "Oh, the poor widow."
You're serious?
You should see the way I'm treated in class! I'm a complete source of mockery.
Okay, how would it work?
It would be a full-service law firm, by and for blondes, providing positive blonde role models and community outreach in high blonde areas. I mean, think about it -- name one blonde intellectual role model.
I can't.
That is a direct result of anti- blonde discrimination!
Wait -- Hilary Clinton.
If she were a true blonde, she would've left the cheating bastard. Blondes don't let their husbands get fellated by brunettes and live to tell about it.
In that case, maybe Heyworth got fellated by a brunette and Brooke caught him.
Exactly how much gorilla sex do you think a sixty-year-old man can take?
That's not really a topic that keeps me up at night -- but maybe it should.
Speaking of that -- I bought you some seaweed cream while we were at the spa.
What the hell is that for?
The bags under your eyes. You're an attractive man, but you need to take better care of yourself.
I don't -- (gesturing to the cream) Do that stuff.
Well, you should -- If you look good, you feel good and if you feel good, you project joy into the world.
Projecting joy is not my job.
 Fine. Sorry I brought it up.
You really think I'm attractive?
For a butt-head? Yes.
So -- I called your room last night.
 I heard.
I was thinking maybe we could go out sometime.
Uh, no... you're a dork.
 I'm in law school --
Look -- I'm not going out with you. I can't believe you'd even ask. Girls like me don't go out with losers like you.
 Why didn't you call me?
What?
We spend a beautiful night together and then I never hear from you again?
-- uh --
I'm sorry?
For what? Breaking my heart or ruining sex for me with any other man?
Uh -- both?
Forget it. I've already spent too many hours crying over you.
So, urn, when did you wanna go out?
I'm free on Friday.
The first district court is now in session. The honorable Judge William R. Ptak presiding.
Standing over my father's dead body.
My uniform.
Yes.
Define affair.
Objection --
Yes! Okay? Yes!
I'm not having an affair with Enrique -- you know a Delta Gamma would never sleep with a man who wears a thong! I just liked watching him bend over to clean the filter --
I believe you! Don't worry.
Come in.
 You done with that yet?
Take it. I've read it twenty times.
I believe her, too. I don't think she's having an affair with Enrique.
Too bad you and I are the only ones.
I'm still can't believe you didn't tell Donovan the alibi.
It's not my alibi to tell --
 I know. I thought that was very -- classy of you.
 Really? Thanks.
Have you ever noticed that Donovan never asks Warner to bring him coffee? He's asked me at least a dozen times.
Men are helpless. You know that.
Warner can't even do his own laundry.
I know. He has it sent out.
Did you know he got wait-listed when he applied? His father had to make a call.
 You're kidding!
Oh, my God!
What're you doing here?!
We're on our way to the bridal show in New York so we thought we'd rescue you from law school for the night.
 We have a limo downstairs and lots more of these.
You guys -- I can't. We're in the middle of a trial.
Where's Warner?
 At the office.
Oh, how sweet! You made friends with a nerdy girl.
Margot!
Bring her, too.  C'mon. You can wear one of Elle's outfits.
That's okay --
 Speaking of which, can you please put on some party clothes? You look like someone rolled you in something sticky and dragged you through a K- Mart.
 I can't believe you guys are actually here -- but this case is important. I'll make it up to you after finals, okay? I -- promise. I really want to do a good job.
Okay... Call us if you change your mind.
Here.
Jesus. Talk about a Rock. You must be better in bed than you look.
I'll call you as soon as it's over, okay? Sisters forever?
Sorry about that.
Save it.
We'll drink it after we win.
I've got a big one for you.
Can you sign?
Got it?
Oh my God!
 You broke his nose?!
I'm okay --
I think he noticed me, Elle --  But only because I maimed him!
 I'll be over right after the trial, okay? We're about to cross-examine Enrique. And don't worry! My friend Serena barfed on a guy during "The Blair Witch Project" and end up dating him for three months.
Don't stomp your little Prada sandals at me, Miss Thing.
He's gay! Enrique is gay!
What?!
Warner, what kind of shoes do I have on?
Pink ones.
See?
What are you talking about?
He's gay -- he isn't Brooke's lover! He's making it up. Whoever killed Heyworth is paying him off.
Back up. How do you know he's gay?
Gay men know designers. Straight men don't.
What's going on?
Enrique's gay. I'm sure of it.
He did leave a Cher tape in the pool house once --
While I appreciate your masterful legal theory, I have a murder trial to attend to.
Thanks for the backup.
How was I supposed to know what kind of shoes you had on?
Mr. Salvatore, do you have any proof that you and Mrs. Windham were having an affair?
Just the love in my heart.
If that's all the proof that he has, your Honor, I think I'm done here.
I have a couple of questions, Your Honor?
 Give me two minutes.
Did you ever take Mrs. Windham on a date?
Yes.
Where?
A restaurant in Oakland. Where no one would recognize us.
And how long have you been sleeping with Mrs. Windham?
Three months.
And what is your boyfriend's name?
Chuck.
I'm sorry, I misunderstood. Chuck is just a friend.
If I'm just your friend, why have we been doing the slippy-slap every night for the past six months?
Good work today, Ms. Woods.
Thank you!
 And after they set his nose, he came back for his truck and I offered to drive for him since he was still on pain-killers and we spent the whole afternoon together! He was unconscious for part of it, but it was really fun!
 I'm so happy for you!
How'd it go at the trial?
Great. Donovan actually said the words "Good work, Ms. Woods". He takes me seriously! Can you believe it?
Of course I can believe it. You're going to make a great lawyer.
Elle, you've changed my life. You are the kindest, most wonderful angel. Without you, I wouldn't have Rufus or a dinner date. Now go and share your goodness with the world while I stay here and have my hoo-hoo waxed.
Donovan asked to see you before you leave.
 Really?
He's already got his coffee -- maybe he needs a donut.
Come on in.
Sit down.
Is everything okay?
You followed your intuition today and you were right on target. I should've listened.
 Thank you.
About the alibi --
I'm sorry, but --
 I'm impressed that you took the initiative to go there and get it. That's what makes a good lawyer. And on top of that, you gained the client's trust and kept it. That's what makes a great lawyer. You're smart, Elle. Smarter than most of the guys I have on my payroll.
Wow. That means so much to me to hear you say that.
I think it's time discuss your career path. Have you thought about where you might be a summer associate?
 Not really. I know how competitive it all is --
You know what competition is really about, don't you?
It's about ferocity. Carnage. Balancing human intelligence with animal diligence. Knowing exactly what you want and how far you'll go to get it. How far will Elle go?
 You're hitting on me?
You're a beautiful girl, Elle.
So everything you just said --
I'm a man who knows what I want.
And I'm a law student who's finally realized her professor is a pathetic asshole.
 Too bad. I thought you were a law student who wanted to be a lawyer.
You almost had me fooled.
What?
Maybe you should sleep with the judge too. Then we can win the case.
 Hey --
I'm quitting.
Whoa -- Why?
Law school was a mistake. Getting this internship was a mistake.
What're you talking about? You earned it --
I didn't earn anything. I got this internship because Donovan liked the way I looked. Which he made clear tonight when he tried to feel me up.
 So now you're -- ?
Going back to LA. Maybe I can fulfill my destiny as a useless bimbo and join the Swedish Bikini Team. No more navy blue suits. No more panty- hose. No more trying to be something I'm not.
What if you're trying to be something you are? The hell with Donovan. Stay.
Thanks for not treating me the way everyone else here does. Call me if you're ever in California.
 You can't go home!
What's the point of staying? All people see when they look at me is blonde hair and big boobs. No one's ever going to take me seriously. The people at law school don't, Warner doesn't -- I don't even think my parents take me seriously. They wanted me to grow up and become a Victoria's Secret model who marries a rock star. Now, for the first time, it seemed like someone expected me to do something better with my life than wear underwear for a living. But I was kidding myself -- Donovan didn't see me as a lawyer. He saw me as a piece of ass just like everyone else. It turns out, I am a joke.
The hell with law school. I just came to say goodbye.
If you let one stupid prick ruin your life, you're not the girl I thought you were.
Is he always such an ass?
 He's the top defense attorney in the state. Of course he's an ass.
But is he an ass that's gonna win my case?
He's an ass that's gonna try.
He thinks I'm guilty, doesn't he?
That's not what's important.
To me it is. He doesn't trust me. Why should I trust him?
You're right. Why should you?
Keep that bitch away from me.
She's our client.
Not Brooke. Elle.
 Funny how a woman can turn into a bitch just by saying "no".
What're you so happy about? You're on trial for murder.
Get up.
What?
You're fired. I have new representation.
Who?
 Excuse you. You're in my way.
She's a law student. She can't defend you.
Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court Rule 3:03.
 See?
Counselors, approach the bench.
You're not going up there.
Yes, I am.
 I don't think you heard me. You're fired. She's my lawyer.
Counselors, now. All of you.
Elle Woods, your honor. Rule 3:03 of the Supreme Judicial Court states that a law student may appear on behalf of a defendant in criminal proceedings.
I do. I'm not allowing it.
 But you agreed last night. In the office? When we were discussing my "career"?
 The ruling also states that you need a licensed attorney to supervise you. Mr. Donovan?
That, I won't agree to.
I'm supervising, Your Honor.
Well, then, Ms. Woods. Proceed.
Go, Elle!
Enjoy prison.
Mrs. Windham, you do realize what you're doing?
Absolutely.
Don't fuck with a Delta Gamma.
Kick some butt.
Ms. Woods, call your first witness.
I'd like to recall Chutney Windham as a defense witness.
Ms. Woods, begin your questioning.
First, your Honor, I'd like to point out that not only is there no proof in this case, but there's a complete lack of mens rea, which by definition tells us that there is no crime without a vicious will.
I am aware of the meaning of mens rea. What I am unaware of is why you're giving me a vocabulary lesson instead of questioning your witness.
Okay -- Ms. Windham, when you uh arrived back at the house? Was your father there?
Not that I saw. But like I said, I went straight upstairs to take a shower.
And when you came downstairs, what happened?
I saw Brooke standing over his body, drenched in his blood.
But Mrs. Windham didn't have a gun?
No, she'd stashed it by then.
Move to strike that from the record, your Honor. Speculation.
Stricken.
Did you hear a shot fired?
No. I was in the shower.
So at some point in the -- twenty minutes you were in the shower, your father was shot?
I guess.
Your father was shot while you were in the shower?
Where's she going with this?
Have a little faith.
But you didn't hear the shot, because you were in the shower.
 Yes. I was washing my hair.
Miss Windham, can you tell us what you'd been doing earlier in the day?
I got up, went to Starbucks, went to the gym, got a perm, and came home.
Where you got in the shower.
 Yes.
I believe the witness has made it clear that she was in the shower.
Yes, Your Honor. Had you ever gotten a perm before, Miss Windham?
 Yes.
How many, would you say?
Two a year since I was twelve. You do the math.
You know, a girl in my sorority, Tracy Marcinko, got a perm once. Even though we all told her not to. Curls really weren't the right look for her --  She didn't have your bone structure.
But, thankfully, that same day, she entered the Pi Kap wet t-shirt contest where she was completely hosed down from head to toe.
 I have a point. I promise.
Then make it.
Chutney, why is it that Tracy Marcinko's curls were ruined when she got hosed down?
Because they got wet.
That's right. Because isn't the first cardinal rule of perm maintenance that you are forbidden to wet your hair for at least twenty-four hours after getting a perm at the risk of de-activating the ammonium thiglycolate?
Yes --
And wouldn't someone who's had thirty perms throughout her lifetime, be well aware of this rule?
And if you, in fact, were not washing your hair, as I suspect you were not, since your curls are still intact, wouldn't you have heard the gunshot?
And if you in fact, heard the gunshot, then Brooke Windham wouldn't have had time to hide the gun before you got downstairs. Which would mean that you would've had to have found Mrs. Windham with a gun in her hand to make your story sound plausible. Isn't that right?
She's younger than I am. Did she tell you that? How would you feel if your father married someone younger than you?
You, however, had time to hide the gun, didn't you, Chutney? After you shot your father?
I didn't mean to shoot him --  I meant to shoot you!
I knew it!
 Oh, my God!
 Oh, my God!!
Elle, how did you know Chutney was lying?
Because she is brilliant.
 The rules of haircare are simple and finite. Any Cosmo girl would've known.
What the -- ?
Honey, stop!  Ellie's on TV!
Oh, my God! What happened to her tan?
I wish we could stay longer, but I have a game.
I can't believe you're a Laker Girl!
Hello! You're like, a lawyer.
 Not yet.
 Even though you knew your shit today -- you're still a product of the patriarchy and a creation of the male-dominated media. And so are your friends.
 Although -- you're kinda hot. Call me.
 Don't worry. She's harmless. I'll see you guys soon! Thanks for coming!
You were amazing today.
Thank you.
It made me realize something. I'm an idiot.
Really?
I want to be with you, Elle. Forever.
I want to be with you, too, Warner.
In court. On opposing sides.
 Are you serious?
Huh. Imagine that. Looks like I am.
Sarah -- hold on.
 Elle, wait up --
 I'm a bitch.
Yes, you are.
And Donovan's a scumbag for coming on to you.
Yes, he is.
So -- can we drink that champagne when I get back from the pawnshop?
You're pawning The Rock?!
Hell, yes. We've got finals to study for. In Jamaica.
Up for a celebration dinner?
Are you asking me on a date?
As long as you realize I'm not just some man-toy you can show off like a trophy.
 Then, forget it. Besides, I have an early class tomorrow.
So Friday at eight?
Perfect.
 Someone missed you.
Is he the only one?
What do you think?
 Looks like you're pretty popular.
Only blonde at heart. (to the girl next to her) Right?
