When I was a little girl, my mother would remind me each night before bed to be sure to open my heart to God, for he was kind, merciful and just. Things changed after my father left a few years later, leaving her to raise me and my brothers alone in a little place out on the edge of the Mojave Desert. She never talked about a kind and merciful God again. Instead she spoke of a prophecy. Of a time when all the world would be covered in darkness and the fate of Mankind would be decided. One night I finally got up the courage to ask my mother why God had changed, why was he mad at his children. "I don't know," she said, tucking the covers around me, "I guess he just got tired of all the bullshit." And with these words the last trace of sunlight is SNUFFED OUT, leaving us in:
A darkness filled with the sounds of SIRENS, GLASS SHATTERING, SPORADIC GUNFIRE...a CITY FALLING INTO CHAOS. TITLE:   "Los Angeles, December 23rd - 1:02 a.m."
His name, we will come to know, is MICHAEL. He quickly checks out his surroundings, nothing but brick walls above him. Where'd this guy jump from? A RUMBLE of thunder...then RAIN starts to hammer down.   Seems to motivate him. Michael pulls his overcoat tight around his body and dashes toward the mouth of the alley. He reaches the STREET just in time to see a FLEET OF POLICE CARS tearing around the corner, SIRENS WAILING, heading this way. He reels back into the alley way, ducks down behind a trash dumpster, as the BLUE AND RED LIGHTS of the POLICE CARS whip past. Michael waits for the lights to disappear, then he pulls a MASSIVE ORNATE KNIFE from his jacket. Considers it grimly. Runs his finger along its edge. Blood beads up. Razor sharp. Michael begins to peel off his overcoat, revealing his bare chest underneath...and skin literally covered with DARK TATOOS. Hard to see what they are in this light. As his coat falls to the ground, we DRIFT over to the BRICK WALL behind him where we see MICHAEL'S SHADOW crouch over, and then...
He turns his back to the mirror, revealing two HORRIFICALLY OPEN WOUNDS running down between both shoulder blades.
He threads a needle not with thread, but with FISHING WIRE, and begins to STITCH the wounds closed. BLOOD POOLS on the cement floor around his feet.
Weapon after ferocious weapon gets tossed into rifle bags. Whatever this guy's preparing for, it's big. Rifle bags filled, Michael heads for the exit.   Stops cold. The place is locked up tight.   Metal gate over the front doors, bars over the windows.   How the hell's he going to get out of here?
Goddamn' animals. Nights like this I wish I could take a match to this city just so I could watch all these motherfuckers burn.
A fresh start. That's what this place needs. He holds his finger up like a pistol. Aims it at the people they pass, picking them off one by one.
Pow!   Pow!     Pow! Now Burton laughs, a dark, mean laugh.      Estevez eyes his partner, wary.
Jesus... You know Burton, I'm so happy we get to share beautiful moments like this. They really brighten my da-- KABOOM! Through the WINDSHIELD, we see a storefront EXPLODE just ahead, raining fiery debris onto the squad car. Burton slams on the breaks and the cops look up just in time to see...
Freeze! Estevez and Burton are already out of the squad car, crouching behind the open doors, GUNS trained on Michael.
Drop the bags! Hands on your head! In the distance, the POP-POP of GUNFIRE. The POLICE RADIO CRACKLES with URGENT CHATTER. MANY VOICES TALKING AT ONCE. "Shots fired...Code Three...Officer down!" The cops shift about nervously, trying to stay focused.
 It's starting. There isn't much time. The cops shoot a quick, anxious glance at each other -- "what the hell?" -- then they turn back to Michael.
Shut the fuck up and drop the bags now! Michael lets the gun bags hit the ground.
Hands on your head!    On your head! Michael slowly places his palms on his skull.
Turn around! Turn the fuck around! Michael slowly turns around.    Calm. Estevez rushes in to restrain Michael, grabbing his wrist, FINGERS TIGHTENING. Michael closes his eyes, a terrible decision made. And that's when he moves, a fucking blur! In an instant Michael's broken the cop's arm, spinning him helplessly around, turning him into a human shield. Now it's Michael who's in charge, gun to Estevez's head, facing off with Burton. Burton struggles to find a shot, can't.
Let `em go!
Take the shot, Burton!
I said let `em fuckin' g-g-g-g-- Suddenly Burton starts to SHAKE, the words stuck in his throat like a skipping record.
Burton!? THE STREET LAMPS BEGIN TO FLICKER AND STROBE, adding to the confusion. Burton squeezes his eyes shut in pain, his WHOLE BODY QUAKING, heels CLICKING the pavement, as if some massive pressure were building inside him. And with the horrific sound of CRACKING BONES, BURTON'S MOUTH
His eyes SNAP OPEN, focused, the force inside him now fully in control. Burton looks at Michael with calm recognition, his voice GUTTURAL..INHUMAN. A man possessed.
What are you doing, Michael?   These weren't your orders. Estevez looks at his partner with confusion.
What did you say? Michael, however, seems to know exactly who he's talking to.
I'm following my own orders now.
Then you will die along with the child.
Burton, you fuckin' know this guy?! BLAM! Burton shoots his partner in the head. Estevez drops, leaving Michael without cover. Burton re-aims, but Michael's faster, already FIRING back. Bullets rip up the concrete. SMASH!   The squad car window SHATTERS, Burton's chest EXPLODING!
Bolts awake.   Breathing hard.   Covered with sweat.
You okay, Jeep? Jeep turns to see CHARLIE, a very pregnant girl of about twenty, standing in the trailer doorway, rubbing the sleep from her eyes. Even with the trailer-trash veneer, she's strikingly beautiful.
Sorry to wake you, Charlie.
(stepping out of the trailer, hands on her
Wasn't you. He's been kickin' up a storm all night. Must know somethin' I don't. She approaches Jeep.   Sees the strain in his eyes.
Another bad dream? He struggles for a moment, nods.
It's just stress, Jeep, that's all. You do too much worryin'. About this place. About your dad.
You're the only thing I like worrying about.
See what I mean? You're worried about a girl eight months pregnant and it isn't even your baby. Now that's enough to give anybody nightmares. Jeep turns away, dejected.
Go ahead, make fun of me. Everybody else does.
 C'mon, I was only kiddin'. You know how much I appreciate everything you and Bob are doing for me, but a month from now, this baby'll have a new family and I'll have to start thinkin' about what the hell I'm doin' with my life. This is not news Jeep wants to hear.
So you're still going through with it...?
Jeep, I'm not ready to be a mama. Christ, I can barely take care of myself as it is.
I could help you. We could do it together, you know? I want to. Charlie smiles sadly at him, touched by his sweetness, but this just isn't where she's at.
You gotta stop carryin' the weight of the world on your shoulders. Jeep nods, tries to hide the fact that he's dying inside.
 Now can we go back in? I'm freezing my ass off out here.
Go on.   I'll be right there. Charlie kisses him on the cheek and heads back to the trailer. He watches her, longing in his eyes. With the clank of the door, she's gone. And over Jeep's troubled look, the perennial holiday cheer of FRANK CAPRA'S "IT'S A WONDERFUL LIFE" MIXES up.
I don't know whether I like it very much being seen around with an angel without any wings.
Oh, I've got to earn them and you'll help me, won't you?
Lord as my witness, Bob, one of these days that thing's gonna hit you back.
Whaddya talkin' about, Percy? We got a special relationship here.
Yeah, they got names for that kind a relationship. The JUKEBOX on the other side of the diner starts up with the MERLE HAGGARD tune "I'M A LONESOME FUGITIVE". A stunning looking sixteen-year-old GIRL with dyed-black hair and a piercing or three, is leaning seductively over the jukebox, swaying gently to the music. The headband doubling as her mini-skirt reveals her knock-out figure in a way that really doesn't leave much up to the imagination. She's a billboard of rebellion.
It's disgusting.
You're right. It is disgusting. Watching the scintillating action from a booth across the diner is a conservatively dressed SUBURBAN COUPLE. SANDRA and HOWARD ANDERSON. Fish out of water.
Really, how can she go out in public wearing that?
I don't know. Why don't we just ask her?
Howard, don't. You'll embarrass me.
(shouting across the
Audrey, honey? Your mother was wondering if you got dressed this morning with the specific intention of showing your ass off to the entire world? The girl who we now know as AUDREY ANDERSON turns to Howard with a caustic smile.
Yeah, that's cuz I woke up hoping to get double teamed by a couple of meth head truckers in the bathroom of some desert shithole.
I feel satisfied with that answer. I really do. Sandra buries her face in her hands.
I'm being punished for something, I know it.
He passes a weathered road sign:
Shit... He spots the truck stop diner just up the road ahead...
Darren, your fuckin' directions suck, man. He checks his cell phone again. No chance of a signal way out here. So he shuffles around to the side of the diner in search of a pay phone. The good news is that he finds one.   The bad news is that it's been broken for ten years. Leaning next to the broken phone, however, is Charlie wearing a shabby, faded WAITRESS uniform stretched tight around her very pregnant belly. Adding to her perfect mother-to-be look is that cigarette dangling from her lips. The plastic name tag pinned to her chest says "CHARLIE".
Hey... She eyes him, mildly intrigued, takes a drag.
You know that shit right there ain't good for the baby. She lets out a long slow exhale.
Guess I should think `bout quittin' then.
Now hold on, girl, let me bum one before you do.
You can buy a whole pack inside.
Tell ya what. You let me have one of yours, and I'll give you two from the new pack you're gonna sell me. She considers him for a moment, then pulls out a cigarette. Lights it off the end of hers then hands it to him. Kyle takes a drag, pulls out his crumpled map.
Am I in the right place?
 Only if nowhere's right, `cause that's where you are.
Sonuvabitch. There another phone around here? You know, one that works?
Bob'll probably let you use the diner phone if you ask him real nice...And pay `im somethin'.
I can handle that.   You got pancakes here?
Yeah, we got a buttermilk stack for three seventy-five. We also got french toast for four dollars if you're into that. I personally like the pancakes though.
You okay, Charlie? They both turn to see Jeep behind the diner, wearing mechanic's coveralls and holding a DUSTY OLD CRIB. Charlie quickly hides her cigarette behind her back. Busted.
Yeah, I'm okay. This guy's just lost. Jeep nods, uncertain, eyes Kyle another moment, then he shuffles along out of sight. Charlie brings the cigarette back up to her lips. An awkward beat.
Three seventy-five, huh?
Charlie heads to the register. Digs out a fresh pack of smokes from underneath the counter.
I hope Salem Lights are okay, `cause that's all we got left.
If I can smoke `em, I'll take `em.
Where ya been, Charlie? Bob steps off the chair.
This ain't a resort you know.    I got orders stacking up here. In truth there aren't any orders stacking up, but it certainly makes Bob feel better to say it.
 You best not be smokin' again.    Not in your condition.
 Bob, do you see where am I right now? Can my condition really get any worse? `Sides, you ain't one to talk.
What?   I quit two years ago.
Yeah, so why you still carryin' that fancy lighter `round for?
It was a gift from my ex-wife, alright? I'm sentimental. I don't wanna forget how much I hate her guts.
Hey man? Bob turns to Kyle.   Doesn't like what he sees.
Can I use your phone? My cell doesn't get a signal out here and the pay phone outside is busted. Bob is about to respond when:
Excuse me...? Howard approaches, oblivious to the conversation he's interrupting.
Any news about when our truck might be fixed? You said your boy would have us on the road two hours ago. The rate we're going, we'll be lucky to make it to Scottsdale by Christmas. Bob's expression darkens at this news.
Goddamn it. Where the hell is Jeep?
Hey, Leonardo...! Jeep freezes, knows he's in trouble He reluctantly turns to see his father standing next to the Anderson's broken-down Uhual.
The fact that this truck's hood's up mean anything to you? Jeep stares at the ground.   Couldn't be anymore uncomfortable.
Yeah...
EMPTY_LINE
Whaddya workin' on that's so goddamn important you're not doin' your job?
Nothin'... Jeep tries feebly to block his path, fails. Bob looks down at the crib with dismay.
Found it under a bunch of stuff in the storage shed. I know you never like to throw anything away... Bob considers him, softens.
Whaddya doin'?
What...?
Jeep, I like Charlie. I do. And I think it's real good of you to lend her a helping hand, but she is not your responsibility.
 Oh whatever, leave me alone.
Don't walk away from me while I'm talkin' to you!
How long you gonna follow her around like a puppy dog? Cleanin' up the messes she makes while she steps out with every guy around here other than you?! Jeep stiffens.   Turns to his father:
Don't say that about her!     She's not like that!
You really think she's gonna stick around here after that baby's born and off her hands? Jeeps shakes his head, burns.
Look, I know it doesn't make any sense to you, but it's just something I have to do. Bob sighs, feels for his boy.
 See that up there? Your mother thought I was crazy for wanting to buy this place, middle of nowhere...But I just knew this was what I was supposed to do. Told your mom, "just wait." Told her when they finally ran the freeway through here like they were plannin' on, this place would be like Grand Central Station.
C'mon Dad. You can't blame yourself for what she did--
Yeah, I can. And I'm sayin' you're about to make the same damn mistake I made, believing in something that's never gonna happen...Or someone.
Now get to work on that truck. I wanna have these people on the road by nightfall. Bob walks back into the diner. Jeep is about to turn back to the garage when he notices something off in the distance. Ominous DARK CLOUDS line the horizon to the south like a living wall. He shifts his gaze up the highway to the north. Same thing. DARK CLOUDS are pushing their way over the distant mountains. A storm is coming.
(holding up a silencing
Yeah, wait a minute. The TV has gone on the fritz again.   Only now the image is mostly snow. Bob climbs back onto the chair.   Faces the TV.
What's wrong with you today?
The image flickers but doesn't improve.
I told you to get the satellite TV. But you don't wanna listen.
What the hell do I need that crap for?
History Channel, man!
I got all the history I can take.
That's for sure.
What's your problem now?
Where do I start?
You know this was the top-of-the- line model when I bought it.
Yeah, in the Fifties.
You shouldn't be watchin' anyways.  Okay, baby, this is gonna do it. Bob gives the TV one final wallop -- WHACK! And the picture snaps into FOCUS.    Only it isn't the picture he was expecting. The STARK GRAPHIC OF THE EMERGENCY BROADCASTING SYSTEM and its accompanying HOLLOW TONE fill the diner. Everybody in the place stops and turns to the TV.
See?   Clear as day.
Nice work, Bob. What the hell's that?
It's just one of those test things. That'd be true, except for the words at the bottom of the screen, which read:
Don't look like a test.
Yo, am I the Invisible motherfuckin' Man here?    Do you have a phone or not? Kyle peels a five dollar bill off a serious WAD OF CASH. That gets Bob's attention. Bob snaps the money out of his hand.
In the back past the kitchen.   Make it fast. Kyle hustles passed Percy. Charlie is standing by the Anderson's table, clearing dishes. Everybody's eyes are locked on the TV.
If there's a real emergency aren't they supposed to give us some information about what to do?
I'm sure it's a mistake.
Hey, Percy, give that old radio of yours a shot. Maybe they got some news about the TV. Percy grabs an old battery powered radio off a kitchen shelf. Switches it on. STATIC.   He spins the dial until he reaches a clear signal. The same HOLLOW TONE of Emergency Broadcasting.   Station after station the same thing. The diner is overwhelmed by a chilling chorus of HOLLOW TONES. Everyone goes very still.
Let me talk to him...
 Cuz a father should be able to talk to his son, that's why. Now put `im on the phone.  Is that my little man...? Yeah, well I'm working hard, so that I can be with you. You bein' good? (strange STATIC can be
Wait... You're breakin' up. Hello...?  Shit! Kyle stews a beat, then picks up the phone to redial. Frowns. No dial tone.
What the hell... He keeps trying.    Nothing.
Maybe there was an earthquake?
They keep sayin' we're overdue for a big one.
Lot a folks could be hurt.
Not if it was centered in the desert.
Exactly.    Could be nothing to worry about.
So then why's the TV out?
Maybe it just hit the relay stations. Aren't those usually in remote areas?
Yeah, `cause of the radiation they give off.
There ain't no radiation comin' from those things. Plus that don't explain the radio being out too. Some of those stations broadcast over hundreds of miles. Any quake that big and we would a felt it.
Percy's right. I didn't feel nothing.
Maybe it's a terrorist attack or something...?
 Oh god... Everyone considers that grimly, then:
Well, for cryin' out loud. There's no use in speculating. I'll just call my brother up in Needles. He must a heard something.
I don't think so. Kyle has reappeared in the diner.
Whaddya talkin' about?
Phone's dead. Just tried to make a call.
You're shittin' me. Kyle shakes his head, sits down at the counter.
Oh, this is just great.
Relax, Mrs. Anderson. Nothing to get excited about. Probably just working on the lines.
Sides, I'm sure Jeep'll have your truck fixed up quick as can be, and then you'll be on your way.
Damn it! He pulls himself up. Grease covers his face and hands.       The sound of a CAR APPROACHING catches his attention. He watches as a beat up EIGHTIES CUTLASS SUPREME pulls off the highway and rolls to a stop at the pumps. It's a mystery how anyone could see through the LAYER OF DUST on that windshield. After a moment the car door pops open and the LEGS OF AN ELDERLY WOMAN swing down to the ground, followed by the metal frame and wheels of a walker. The LITTLE OLD LADY gets out of the car, steadies herself on the walker, and then slowly makes her way toward the diner with the rickety frailness of an old turtle. Jeep watches her disappear inside. He then looks toward the horizon again.   The WALL OF DARK CLOUDS are growing ever closer.
Have a seat wherever you want, Ma'am. Specials are on the board.
Thank you, dear. The old lady settles at a table across from the Andersons. She smiles at them pleasantly. Charlie is about to hand her a menu, when:
Oh, I already know what I want.
Okay, what'll it be?
I'll have the steak, please.
And how'd you like that cooked?
Rare if you would. And water, no ice.
Coming right up.
Charlie, is it?
Yeah.
What an unusual name for a girl.
So they say. I'll be right back with your water. The old lady turns to the Andersons.
Hello, I'm Gladys. Gladys Foster.
Nice to meet you, Gladys. I'm Sandra and this is my husband Howard.
What a nice young couple you are. What brings you out to these parts?
We're moving out to Scottsdale. But our truck broke down, and so we're stuck here while it's being fixed.
Oh, what a nuisance. A FLY begins to buzz around Gladys's head.    She doesn't seem to notice it.
Say, Gladys, it seems the lines are down around here. The phone and TV, you know?
And I just was wondering if you might have heard something on your way up? You know, about what's going on? Gladys smiles strangely.
Oh, don't worry yourself about that, sweetheart. It'll all be over soon. Sandra nods at the old woman, unsure of what to make of that response. The fly that was circling her head, now lands on GLADYS'S FACE. It crawls across her cheek without her reacting in the least. Howard and Sandra exchange looks.    Creepy. The door JINGLES and Jeep walks in. He heads straight for a quiet huddle with Bob. All the while though, he keeps one eye fixed on the old lady sitting at the table near the Andersons. Something about her...
The carburetor's shot.    Don't know why. Looks brand new.
(glances over at the
Ah, shit. They're gonna be pissed.
I could try to rebuild it, but it'd take a while, and I don't think we have all the parts. If we call right now, we might be able to get a new one down here tomorrow morning.
That's not gonna happen.    Goddamn phone's out.
What? Across the diner, Charlie places a bloody red steak in front of Gladys.
Thank you, dear. How far along are you?
Just about there.
The father must be very proud.
I wouldn't know.
You mean he's...
Out of sight. Out of mind.
Oh, I see.     So you're not married, I take it? A fly lands on Gladys's steak. Charlie tries to wave it away. But another one lands in its place.
Nope. Gladys starts to dig in to the steak with a real ferociousness you wouldn't expect from an old lady.   More FLIES begin to land on her body. On her food. Charlie is still trying to wave them away.
That's too bad.
No, I prefer it that way. I don't a need a man tellin' me what to do.
But what about the baby?
I've got it under control.
Yeah, but it's gonna burn. Charlie freezes. The Andersons turn to look as well.   Kyle glances over from the counter.
What did you just say?
 I said your fucking baby's gonna burn. Charlie shakes her head at the woman, not giving in.
Go to hell, lady. She slaps the check down on the table and walks back toward the kitchen, passing Jeep and Bob.
What happened?
Total fucking Jesus freak. Gladys begins to laugh innocently as she continues to devour her meat. Red juice drips down her chin. The flies are swarming now. How did so many get in here? Sandra and Howard are mortified at this sudden turn of events.
All those babies.    They're gonna burn.
Gladys, please. There's no reason to -- Gladys's head suddenly whips toward her.
Shut up, you stupid fucking cunt! All you do is complain! Complain! Complain! Sandra covers her mouth in shock.    Everybody in the diner is now focused on the old lady. Howard gets up from the booth.
Howard, it's okay!     Don't listen to her! But Howard's already standing over Gladys.
Who the hell do you think you are, lady?! Now, I'd like you to apologize to my --
You're all going to fucking die! Percy is the first to react. From behind the counter, he whips a heavy metal frying pan at Gladys that knocks her head sideways. THWACK! BONES BREAK AND BURST FROM HER NECK.   Impossibly, Gladys is still standing. She lets out an INHUMAN SCREAM and SCRAMBLES ACROSS THE DINER, knocking tables and chairs over in her wake. Bob pulls a shotgun from behind the counter.
Don't move! But Gladys not only moves, SHE SCURRIES RIGHT UP THE FUCKING
BOB PUMPS THE SHOTGUN, trying to take her down, but he can't track her fast enough. Instead he blows ENORMOUS HOLES in the ceiling, a rain of plaster. Gladys drops down right in front of Bob.
(struggles to cock the
Fuck! Gladys smiles sweetly before SLAPPING HIM CLEAR ACROSS THE
The shotgun clatters to the floor at Jeep's feet. He snatches it up and aims it at Gladys who turns calmly to face him.
Shoot her, Jeep! Jeep's about to fire, when the old lady's EYES GO ALL WHITE.
 You'll never save her. Jeep freezes, stunned by her words, overwhelming fear paralyzing him where he stands.
Somebody help me! Sandra is on the floor with her husband.     Blood pours freely from his neck. Kyle stares at the dying man -- a moment of hesitation -- then he rushes to help.
Press your hands over the hole! Sandra looks fearfully up at Kyle, at the gun still in his hand.
Don't look at me like that, lady! I'm tryin' to fuckin' help you! Now put your goddamn hands over the hole before your husband bleeds to death! Obeying, she cups her hands over the hole in his neck, desperately trying to stop the flow of blood leaking out between her fingers. Percy scrambles over with a first-aid kit and together he and Kyle get to work on Howard's neck.
The fuck was that?!   What the fuck was that!? Across the diner, Audrey is pushed back into a booth, her knees pulled tightly to her chest, shivering. Her adult facade giving way to that of a frightened child A DROP OF RED HITS AUDREY'S CHEEK, causing her to look up and see Gladys's TRAIL OF BLOOD DRIPPING FROM THE CEILING. An ungodly horror.
How far to the hospital?
Seventy, maybe eighty miles. Kyle shoots him a look. Eighty miles?! Pedal to the floor time. Audrey leans forward from the back seat.
What's that on the road? Up ahead, the DARK CLOUDS Jeep saw earlier have finally closed in, descending onto the highway like a WALL.
They're fuckin' clouds!   What the fuck do they look like?
Not clouds. Clouds don't buzz. She's right.    They're black... Undulating... BUZZING!
And that's when they realize it... Those aren't clouds.
The Escalade enters the SWARM. The car is PUMMELED by insects, the windshield instantly covered in BLACK AND RED bug guts. Driving blind! The sound of FLIES SPLATTERING and BUZZING is deafening! Everyone SCREAMS as hell surrounds them...
I don't understand how she was still standin' after Percy hit `er with that goddamn fryin' pan. Broke her fuckin' neck. I saw it. I swear I did.
It's okay, Jeep.   It's okay. But for Jeep it's not okay.   He's hurting real bad inside.
I couldn't pull the trigger. I froze. I saw what I needed to do, but I was afraid...  She could've killed you!
Or Charlie...She would've killed me if it wasn't for... He can't get the words out.   Bob rests a hand on his boy's shoulder.
There's nothin' to be ashamed of, Jeep.
(catching Percy by the
Where you going?!
To get my bible!
The hell you need that for?!
Well somebody's gotta start prayin'... Bob's about to respond when he hears the BUZZING. Bob, Charlie and Jeep slowly approach the windows to see the
No one breathes.
(raises a bottle of
Okay, hold `em steady.
(nods, peakish, to
Oh god, please don't throw up. Howard writhes as Percy pours alcohol on the wound. Sandra can't help but stare at Percy's hook. Meanwhile across the diner, Bob and Jeep peel back the tablecloth to examine Gladys' bullet riddled corpse. Kyle stands over them with Bob's shotgun trained on the body -- just in case. Gladys is a real horror show. Bones jut out at obtuse angles from her neck -- a result of the blow to her head from Percy's frying pan.
She's cold as a freakin' ice cube. If I hadn't just seen her walk in here, I'd say the old bag's been dead for hours. Bob rolls Gladys over, revealing her face -- her enlarged mouth filled with dozens of razor sharp baby teeth.
Well, I don't care how long she's been dead, the bitch ain't stayin' in here with us.
I don't get it.    Why don't they come closer?
How the fuck am I supposed to know, man? You askin' me to explain the behavior of a motherfuckin' pestilence. A CLANK and Jeep notices the old lady's car keys have dropped to the ground.
 You guys!
You see anything?
No Twilight Zone shit if that's what you mean. Jeep slips the key into the driver's side door.     Unlocks it.
Careful. Old lady could have some kind of rabid poodle locked up in there. Jeep slowly swings the door open and that's when the smell hits them.
Agh!   What the fuck is that? Bob covers his nose.
Jesus. Kyle opens the passenger door, looks in.      Dark, dirty.   But nothing unusual.
Nothin' here.
How `bout the trunk? They go around to the BACK OF THE CAR.   Jeep slips the key in. The trunk POPS open, revealing a PILE OF DEAD CATS.   ROTTING.
Bob quickly slams the trunk closed.    The guys are reeling with disgust. Kyle's trying to blow the stench from his nose.
Bitch's got motherfuckin' dead cats in her hoopty! What the fuck is wrong with white people?!
Least now we know where that smell was coming from.
Yeah, it was a real motherfuckin' necessity we figured that out, man.
(sees something up the
Hey... They turn to see HEADLIGHTS growing larger in the dim haze. A POLICE CRUISER careens off the highway and skids to a wild stop in front of the diner. Its ENGINE RATTLES as the dust clears around it. No movement can be seen behind its bug splattered windows.
Okay, now we're talkin'.
Wait a minute. Check it out. It's LAPD. What's an LA cop doing way out here? Bob and Jeep look over at Kyle.
I'm from Nevada, man. They consider the police car a moment more. See the SHATTERED PASSENGER WINDOW, the BLOOD STAINS.
Give me the shotgun. Kyle hands the shotgun over to Bob.
Oh, thank God, the police!
The three men see her moving toward the car.    Jeep's face goes slack.
Charlie, wait! The men begin to run toward her... While out of the police car steps...
Charlie freezes a few feet from the car when she sees those piercing eyes already familiar to us. Michael looks at her, as if she was exactly who he expected to see. In moments Bob, Kyle and Jeep form a protective shield in front of Charlie. Bob raises the shotgun.
Take one step closer and I'll drop you right here. A long beat as Michael considers Bob.   Icy cold.
That how you greet all your customers?
Mister, after what we've been through here today, you're lucky we didn't shoot you first and greet you later. Now let me see your teeth. Michael stares at him blankly.
Your teeth goddamn it!       Lemme see `em! Michael offers up a dangerous smile, revealing a not so well kept but definitely normal set of teeth. Bob and the others ease slightly.
No, shark teeth, Pop. Bob lowers the gun.
Okay... Suppose you tell us your name then.
Michael.
Sorry about all that, Michael. This old lady just went crazy inside my place here. She had these teeth. Never seen anything like `em. Practically bit a man in half. Michael remains silent.       Doesn't seemed shocked in the least by what he's heard.
So what are you doin' out here? Gotta say you don't exactly look like a police officer. Even one from L.A. Then again, you have to be, right? I mean, who the hell'd be crazy enough to steal a cop car? Bob chuckles for a moment. When Michael doesn't respond in kind, Bob falls silent. Anxious. He slowly raises the shotgun again. Michael sizes up this raggedy group. His gaze drifts over to the loosely wrapped body in front of the diner. The plastic table cloth flaps wildly in the wind. Turning back to Bob:
You don't know, do you?
Know what?
We don't know anything. Nothing's working here. The TV, the radio, the phone... Michael just shakes his head.
I'm running out of time. Michael steps toward Charlie with a sense of purpose, but Bob blocks his path, brandishing the shotgun.
Back off, fella...
Easy!   Easy! Michael's expression is totally calm.   Merciless.
C'mon, Dad, tell `em you're sorry. Tell `em you were only kidding! But Bob can't even speak, he's so scared.   He squeezes his eyes closed.
Let `em go! Michael's eyes flit momentarily in Charlie's direction. Considering her. The diner door opens and Percy steps cautiously out with hand and hook held up to show no threat. He's followed by Sandra and Audrey. Michael sees them, but offers no indication that he cares.
Now, son, I'm sure you don't wanna go spillin' blood for no good reason in front of all these decent people, do ya? Our friend Bob here ain't worth the trouble it'd cause ya.
What the--? Michael turns, sees the lights.
They're here. Michael whips the gun away from Bob's head and thrusts it back into his hands. Bob's looks down at the gun, speechless.
You're going to need this. Michael walks swiftly around to the trunk of the cruiser. Pops it, revealing a staggering ARSENAL OF WEAPONRY.
Lord, have mercy. (waving back Audrey and
You ladies best get back inside.
What is it? What's happening? Who is this man? Why's he driving a police car?
Shut up, mom!
Wait. I don't think that's such a good idea.
Dad, I can handle it.
 He's just a kid --
I said, I can handle it! Michael's eyes narrow, studying Jeep.
He can handle it. He doesn't have a choice. Michael pulls out twin MP5s for himself. GLOCK 9s are tucked everywhere they can go. Michael tosses clip belts to the men. Boxes of shotgun shells. The works.
If you want to live, you'll do exactly as I say. He slams the trunk closed and approaches Charlie.   He cocks a Glock and hands it to her.
When you fire, you keep your thumb off the slide. Don't hesitate. Don't do anything brave. There's no safety. He gives her a hard look.   She nods nervously.   Trusting him but not sure why. Michael marches into the diner. Kyle glances quickly at the others, then he bolts after Michael. Percy follows.   Then Charlie. Now it's only Jeep and his father left.
C'mon, Jeep. We gotta go!
Fuck it. And races after his father.
Sandra?    What's happening?
It's okay!     Everything's okay! Sandra closes her eyes.        Struggling to believe it. Suddenly the ELECTRICITY GOES OUT, dipping the room into
Jeep, get the flashlights!
Everybody just stay still!
Now that we're locked in here, what the fuck are we supposed to do? A flicker of LIGHT. And then FLASHLIGHT BEAMS CUT THROUGH THE DARKNESS...coming to rest on Michael's pale face. Michael looks up at the ceiling.
Where the hell did they go? Bob turns to Michael sharply.
Alright, Rambo. You got us up here. Now you mind explaining what the fuck we're fighting? Michael is about to answer, when:
Listen! Over the wind, another sound becomes audible. The delicate chime of a CALLIOPE.
You hear what I'm hearing?
Yeah...The hell is that? The CALLIOPE MUSIC grows louder, the melody more distinct. Now we recognize the song: SANTA CLAUS IS COMING TO TOWN. But instead of filling them with cheer, it fills them with dread.
It sounds almost like...
Ice cream. TWO HEADLIGHTS appear in the   darkness. And sure enough, an ICE CREAM TRUCK rolls slowly   toward the diner. The EERIE CALLIOPE MUSIC emanates from   a speaker on its roof. It's too dark to see who's behind the   wheel.
You've got to be fuckin' kidding me.
Alright. There's a safety switch on the side of your gun. Push it all the way down. Two clicks. The men quickly do as they're told.
Now when this starts, you hold on tight, you hear me? If you don't, you're going to blow your hand off. Understand? Kyle, Bob shoot quick anxious looks at Percy.
The fuck y'all lookin' at me for?
Audrey and Charlie back away from the windows. Charlie stops next to Jeep. Senses him shaking. Rests a hand on his arm. And that seems to help...a little. Howard smiles weakly at the familiar sound of the CALLIOPE.
Oh, honey, listen.    It's the Ice Cream Man.
Oh, shit.     Oh, shit.   Oh, shit. That's when the Ice Cream Man's JAW UNHINGES, STRETCHING
Everyone except Michael is practically hyperventilating with fear.
Get ready! And the ICE CREAM MAN BOLTS for the diner with STARTLING SPEED! His movements aren't at all like those of a normal man, but rather like some kind of HUMAN INSECT. Michael aims.
Is that it? Not even close. A RUMBLING OF ENGINES. HEADLIGHTS. A freeway full of VEHICLES of every variety punch through the wall of dust, racing toward the diner. They are THE
Now!   Shoot now! The men let loose with FEROCIOUS FIREPOWER.
Spread out! Don't let them get close to the windows! The DARK SHAPES converge on the diner from all directions. They move so strangely fast it seems that their feet don't actually touch the ground. From the roof it's a full-on turkey shoot as the men follow Michael's instructions and cut down everything in sight. Their faces lighting up with each FLASH. SHELL CASINGS spray from their weapons like water drops from a sprinkler. BODIES BURST and crumble to the dirt. The creatures don't seem to be afraid of dying. Their strategy appears to be in their sheer numbers. With each wave, the dark figures get ever closer to the diner.
Shells! Percy tosses him a box of shells. But Bob fumbles the catch and the box slides halfway down the sloped roof.
Fuck! With the gun still in one hand, Bob reaches frantically down for the ammo. Stretching... Further...
Bob! Bob swings the shotgun like a club -- CRACK! -- knocking the bitch clear off the roof. But the move has made his slide even faster. He drops the shotgun, trying to hold on, but he can't stop!
 Grab my hand! Bob reaches up and clasps Percy's hook, praying that it stays on. But this chick ain't finished yet. Up she comes once more. Her razor sharp fingernails claw up the metal roof. SCREECH!
Gun!
(jamming the gun in her
Fuck off! BLAM! BLAM! BLAM! The back of her head EXPLODES. Her body goes limp. Bob struggles to push the corpse off of him.
Pull me up! Percy extends his hook hand, helping Bob ascend to safety.
Sandra squeezes her hands over her ears.   A few feet away, Audrey clutches a butcher's knife. Jeep's eyes darting from one window to another.   Trying to keep it together. Charlie is crouched down behind the counter, holding the handgun close to her pregnant belly. Distant EXPLOSIONS rattle the plates on the shelves. Charlie peers out from behind the counter to look at the front windows. Momentary FLASHES of intense light outline the closed blinds. Another FLASH lights up Charlie's face.    Staring.
Come on, motherfuckers!   Come on! Closer and closer the creatures come.   Most are eviscerated by the fire from the rooftop.
Where is it?! Audrey shakes her head, tears streaming down her cheeks. She looks over at her mother. Sandra's eyes are closed. It's too much.
Mom!   Open your eyes!
I can't!   I can't! Suddenly Howard's body is TORN AWAY from Sandra. Something's got hold of his legs!   That gets Sandra's eyes open!
(springing after her
Howard! Howard screams deliriously as he's dragged rapidly through the diner toward the broken front window. He flails about, desperately trying to grab a hold of something. Sandra scrambles after her husband.   Reaching for him.
Daddy! The creature reaches the window. Sandra dives for Howard's outstretched hands. She has him! The creature's progress is abruptly halted at the shattered window.   It turns back toward Sandra -- a shaft of light falling across its face, reveals: A TEENAGE GIRL of about Audrey's age.   Her skin is a deathly blue. Her pupils a GHASTLY WHITE.
See what you made me do, mother!? Sandra screams, holds on.
No! Charlie and Audrey rush to Sandra's side, grabbing Howard's arms. Jeep is right behind them ready to fire at the creature, but with the women in the way, he can't get a clear shot. So he discards the gun and grabs Howard's arms. Howard screams as his body is torturously stretched.   A human tug-of-war.
Howard! Howard's torso is almost entirely out the window. Charlie daringly reaches for Howard's belt, desperate to gain leverage.
Daddy!
They're running!      We got `em! Kyle turns happily to Michael.     Gone.   Kyle looks around the roof with alarm.
Michael leaps over her, a butcher's knife in one hand, a machine gun in the other. He lights up everything in his path. The window blinds become a WALL OF FIRE. Creatures SCREECH and flee into the night, having successfully taken their first victim. Charlie flings the severed appendages off her and she and Jeep scoot away from the window. Hysterical, Sandra tries to push past Michael. She's going after Howard. He intercepts her before she can make it out.
Let me go!     He's alive! Sandra slaps at him frantically as he carries her away from the window and thrusts her down into a back booth.
He's alive!
No...     Not anymore. Sandra breaks down.
Thanks...
I told you not to do anything brave. Charlie doesn't know how to respond.      She's about to say something when -- Kyle rushes into the room.       A smile on his face.
We got `em runnin'! Then Kyle notices the broken window, takes in the room, his excitement falling.
Where's Howard? No one responds.   Sandra and Audrey are huddled together. Crying. Bob and Percy follow Kyle in, still shaking from the adrenaline.
Someone needs to be on the roof.
I'll go. Bob grabs Kyle's arm.
Hold on. (approaches Michael,
You better start talking. All eyes on Michael.    These people want answers.      Finally:
The first time God lost faith in Man he sent a flood. The second time...he sent what you see outside. Everyone takes that in for a moment, then:
You sayin' this is the Apocalypse...?
I'm saying this is an extermination.
Possessed by what?    Demons?
No...by angels. That silences the room.
 Son, I don't know what bible you been readin', but in my version, the angels are the good guys. Michael looks squarely at Percy.
That's where your book is wrong.
How come you know so much about them?
I know because until last night, I was on their side.
You mean you're... Michael considers Jeep, then:
Not anymore...
Right and yesterday I was the fuckin' Easter Bunny. You know, fuck this. I don't even believe in God.
That's fine, because He doesn't believe in you either. Bob stares at Michael, uncertain how to respond to that.
C'mon, Bob. Have you looked outside recently? Those aren't exactly our regular customers out there.
How do we know he didn't bring them here himself?
He brings them here and then he saves us from them? You're a genius, Bob. Bob falls silent, confounded. Audrey hesitantly approaches Michael.
So you're here to protect us?
Not you...  Her. Charlie reacts in shock, as all eyes are suddenly on her.
Me?!   Why me?!
Because your child is the only hope humanity has of surviving. In response to that, Charlie does the only thing someone can do when told such a thing. She LAUGHS.
No way! But Michael isn't joking and Charlie's laughter becomes genuine fear.
Exactly. Jeep stares at Charlie, as if suddenly his entire life is starting to make sense.
You're sayin' she's the mother of the Messiah?
Wait a minute, isn't Mary supposed to be a vi--
Go fuck yourself, Bob!
Makes you wonder about Mary.
 Look, this is not possible! I'm just a waitress! I'm nobody! I can't give birth to the Savior of Mankind!  I don't even own a car!
None of that matters anymore. Either your child lives or Mankind dies.
So what, we're supposed to just hold those things off until Mary over there squeezes one out?
That's right.
That can't be. I'm only eight months pregnant.
Oh we're fucked.     We are so fucked!
How are we supposed to survive here for a month?
We won't have to... At this Charlie goes white, the realization hitting her.
It's coming soon, isn't it? Michael nods. Charlie sways on her feet.   Jeep rests a hand on her shoulder, steadying her. With a CLANK Michael re-arms his weapon, turns to the group with finality.
If you want to live you'll do what I say. This first attack was a test of our strength. The next one will be a test of our weakness.
Okay, what's your plan?
We'll keep watch on the roof in shifts of two. Jeep, go get some tools. We need to close up this window before somebody else goes out. Jeep looks anxiously at Charlie, silent, scared, and then he follows after Michael, leaving Charlie to stare at the SHATTERED WINDOW, the blinds flipping wildly in the wind.
They're out there. Sons of bitches. I can feel `em.
You were in the Army?
Navy, two tours. But the second one didn't work out so well, so I didn't get to go back for a third. Suppose that makes me lucky in a way. Served with Bob, you know. That's how I ended up in this place.
What was it like?    Being in a war?
Dark.   Like this. Kyle nods. Scared. He takes out his 45.     Nervously switches it from hand to hand.
So what's with that gun?
What?
Your piece. The one you killed grandma with. Don't reckon it's for huntin' buck.
No. I uh -- keep it for protection.
Protection from what?
From people. Percy looks at him skeptically.
People.
Yeah, people who might try to give me a hard time, you know?
Just regular people or uh...
Yeah, well, no, not regular, regular people.
Irregular people then.
I'm talkin' people whose job it is to give other people a hard time. Kinda person who doesn't get enough fiber in their diet, you know what I'm sayin?
So it's a work thing, is it?
Exactly.    Strictly business.
This business of yours... You like it? Kyle's eyes narrow.
Who the fuck are you to be sweatin' me, man? I got my reasons for doin' what I do. Percy just stares at him, penetrating.     Finally:
When I was a kid my father would sit by my bed every night before I'd go to sleep and he'd say to me, Percy, if you don't wake up tomorrow, if it turns out that today was your last day on earth, would you be proud of what you've done in this life? Cuz if you ain't, then you better start gettin' square. Kyle looks at Percy, fear in his eyes, then he turns back to the darkness...and the evil that surrounds them.
On the house. She looks up at him.    Smiles weakly.   Takes a sip.
Thanks.
You hungry?
Couldn't eat if my life depended on it.
Well I figure just cuz the world's coming to an end, it doesn't mean a man's gotta starve. All I can say is thank heavens they left the gas on. Sandra takes another sip of beer.   Considers it.
Never much cared for beer. Howard's the beer drinker in the family. The moment the words leave her mouth, the grief hits her again. She gathers up some pills from the counter, tosses them back and downs her beer like there's no tomorrow. This is a battle she's losing.
What did you do...you know, before you came here...? Michael considers the question a beat, then:
I was a soldier, a general, in His army.
Well, what changed?   What made you leave?
I was given an order I didn't believe in...  He lost faith. I hadn't. Michael drives the last nail into place, securing the window.
So what happens to you...after this is over? Michael pauses a beat, as if unsure how much to say, then:
Sometimes we have to face the thing we fear the most in order to be free of it. Michael picks up his gun.
It's almost time for the next shift. Michael heads for the roof, leaving Jeep to stare after him, deep in thought.
Howard? But Howard's not there. And everyone else in the diner is still asleep. The drugs have started to wear off... and her fear is returning.
 Sandra... Sandra freezes.
Who's there? A beat then:
Sandra... Sandra spins around.    Searching.
Howard?     Is that you? It sure sounded like Howard.
Help me...     Please... This time, it's clear where the voice is coming from.      Sandra turns to face the BACK DOOR. A desk blocks it. Sandra ever so slowly approaches the door.
 Help me. Sandra... Sandra is stricken.    What the hell is she going to do? That's when Sandra notices the TRANSOM WINDOW above the door. She climbs onto the desk and stretches up until she can see out.
Howard. Her husband. Ten feet away from the door.     NAILED
Sandra goes slack with horror.
Help me, please! Howard's torn open shirt reveals the BREATHING PUSTULES covering his body. He writhes in slow, excruciating agony.
Howard! Sandra scrambles down off the desk and frantically pushes it away from the door. She's reaching for the dead bolt when Audrey and Kyle appear in the doorway.
Mom! Kyle races to restrain Sandra.
Let me go!     He's alive!
Howard! And that's when the speed ACCELERATES TO NORMAL -- -- and the boils covering Howard's body explode -- spraying streams of dark fluid toward Sandra -- -- just at the moment Percy spins around her, shielding her from the spray, which hits him in the back. But he's not stopping. Percy pushes Sandra back into the diner, the door SLAMMING closed behind them. Percy releases Sandra, letting her stumble hysterically into the room. Kyle and Jeep grab her, forcing her to the ground. But she's not fighting anymore. Charlie turns to look at Percy who is still standing with his back to the door, breathing heavily.
Percy? He takes a step forward, then falls to ground. The entire back side of his body is gone.      Burned away.
covering a body.
We should get back out there...
Just gimme another minute with him, okay? Jeep nods, quietly leaves his father at the side of his dead friend.
Catatonic.
Across the diner, Charlie eyes Michael cautiously. Michael never goes for more than a few moments without looking up at her. It's not lecherous. More like a protective father making sure his child hasn't strayed too far. In a booth, Audrey watches, red-eyed, as Michael restrains her mother. Then she returns her attention to Percy's radio. Tuning. Trying to find something, anything in the STATIC.
Hey... CLEARER.   Yes.   It's a VOICE!
Hey! You guys, I think I got something here! Everyone drops what they're doing and quickly gathers around the radio.
... battling has been fierce. The numbers of casualties are unknown but all indications are that they must be unimaginably large.
Red Rock...
That can't be more than an hour up the highway from here.
Does that mean we can leave?
No.    We're not going anywhere.
What the hell are you talkin' about? This is our chance!
We can't risk being on the move when the child comes. It's too dangerous. Bob looks over at Charlie, defeated. She shakes her head, anger building. She sweeps some plates off the counter and races for the bathroom.
... And as we fight this new enemy, may God give us the strength to survive and show mercy for those of us who are already lost...
being lit.
Guess it's your turn not to sleep. Charlie looks up to see Jeep sit down across from her.
Hey... Jeep sees the strain on her face.
You okay?
You mean besides the fact that I just found out that I'm the mother of the Messiah? Jeep smiles, nods.
Crazy thing is...I didn't want this baby. I even went down to the clinic, you know that?  I remember sitting there in the waiting room, absolutely sure I was doin' the right thing...And that's when the feeling started. Like I was falling into the deepest, darkest hole imaginable. I couldn't breathe, I couldn't speak. I kept thinking this must be what death is like. And when finally they called my name, I ran.
You shouldn't say things like that, Charlie. It isn't right. You'll get through this. I know you will. She turns to him, the bitterness overtaking her:
How come you have so much faith in me, Jeep? God knows I've never given you or anybody else a reason to. Or is it that you just can't find any other hard-luck case to follow around? Jeep's face hardens.   He gets up.   Hurt.   Frustrated.
You know, you're not the only who's suffered, okay? Let me know when you stop feeling sorry for yourself. And with that, Jeep walks away, leaving Charlie to stare after him, disturbed and surprised by his response.
...Then you just flip this -- Audrey flips the safety.
Yeah, I got it. All the way down. Two clicks. She points the gun out into the haze like she's been holding one all her life. Off Kyle's surprised look:
Dated this guy last summer. A marine. Had a thing for guns. Parents hated him.
I bet they did. After a moment, Audrey switches the safety back on.   Hands the gun over to Kyle. Audrey stares into the red nothingness surrounding them. Her expression growing distant. She seems to have aged years overnight.
My parents hate everything I do. That's why we were moving.
Yeah?
They thought a more "wholesome" environment would help me "change my ways." So fucked up. Only reason they care at all is cuz they don't want to be embarrassed in front of their friends at the country club. Kyle considers her thoughtfully.
The only time my old man ever paid attention to me was when I was doing somethin' bad. So you know what I did?
What?
I got really good at being bad. She smiles at this confession.    Can obviously relate.   He wipes a tear from her cheek. She leans in.   Kisses him.   Passionately.   Desperately. His hands trace over her body. She claws at him. Her passion growing out of control. She's practically devouring him. Kyle can barely keep up. It's like something else beyond sensual need has taken over. She moves down his chest.     Further.   Kyle leans his head back. Further. Just then the SPOT LIGHTS that illuminate the roof sign come to life.   The young couple stops to look up at the brilliant red word "Paradise" illuminated above them. Down below, the gas pumps LIGHT UP.      The station's FLUORESCENTS flicker on.
Charlie is giving Sandra some water through a straw. Bob wanders in, squinting at the sudden presence of light.
We back in business?
I don't think so.
Is it over?
I don't know. HEADLIGHTS appear on the highway.
 You better get downstairs.
No, I can handle it. Kyle stares at Audrey's beautiful, determined face.    Then he pulls out his silver 45.
 Just in case. The headlights become a FAMILY MINIVAN careening wildly off the highway to stop at the pumps.
Get ready. They aim their weapons at the vehicle. A well dressed MAN in his mid-thirties jumps out of the car. He looks around nervously, scared. Then, seeing that the coast is clear, he offers a calming wave to his WIFE and YOUNG BOY who wait anxiously for him inside the car.
 Wait a minute.
Kyle, are they... A distant SCREECH from behind. Kyle and Audrey spin to look out over the back side of the diner. AN ARMY OF DARK SHAPES are swarming in fast. Kyle looks urgently back at the family.    The father lifts the pump. Flips the lever.
It's a trap. They saw them coming and turned on the lights. It's a fucking trap! Kyle and Audrey wave their arms frantically at the family.
They're not gonna make it. The father dashes to the driver's side.    He throws open the door. But he's too late. He looks over his shoulder just in time to see a BLUR OF MOVEMENT RUSHING AT HIM. His BLOOD PAINTS the car windows. Kyle raises his MP5 to fire upon the dark shapes that surround the vehicle like swarming insects. The wife and boy scream hysterically as they are torn from the vehicle by skeletal hands.
 Wait! You'll hit them too! So Kyle makes a desperately courageous play. He leaps onto the roof's sloped overhang -- sliding fast -- he drops to the ground in front of the diner.
Kyle! Kyle charges the dark mob. Creatures peel away from the woman and boy to confront Kyle head-on. He lets loose with a rain of bullets, eviscerating everything that comes at him.
Jesus Christ, what the hell is that boy doin'!
We have to get `im back in here! Bob springs into action.   Pushes the booth away from the front door. The sound of a gun COCKING. Bob looks over to see Michael pointing a gun at his head.
Don't. You open that door and we could all be dead.
I got you! Kyle moves on to the mother. But something odd is happening. The creatures have stopped coming at him. In fact, they're just standing there watching him.   Waiting. Kyle freezes.   CLOSE ON HIM as he senses something terribly wrong.
Mister... Kyle looks over at the boy in his arms.   GHOSTLY WHITE EYES stare back at him.
Kyle!
Damn it all to hell!
Oh, no.   Audrey... Out the window they see Audrey drop down from the roof and run towards Kyle.
I'm sorry!     I didn't mean to!
Fuck you! Audrey raises the 45 and ...     CLICK.   CLICK.   CLICK. She keeps pulling the trigger.    Nothing. The boy's tears stop instantly. He looks at her with an eerie calm for someone so young.
You're gonna die now. The boy moves toward Audrey, stepping over Kyle's body. Audrey backs away. She looks toward the entrance to the diner. Blocked by advancing creatures. They're everywhere.    She's trapped. She notices the open door to the MINIVAN.     And so she BOLTS. Audrey dives into the car as the throng of creatures rapidly closes in. She hammers the auto door lock. CLUNK! She moves to the center of the car as gruesome faces press against the windows. A nightmare come to life.
Charlie rushes to Michael's side.
Do you have no heart?!     She's just a kid! But he's immovable.
You can't let her die! (grabbing a gun from the
I swear if you don't do something, I will! Charlie COCKS the gun, moves toward the door.
Wait.
 Open the door. Bob springs into action, clearing the door and flipping the dead bolt. The door is opened and Michael charges passed Charlie and out into hell.
The windows EXPLODE, showering Audrey with tiny shards of glass. Michael drops the gas pump. He reaches through a fire rimmed broken car window and unlocks the door. Audrey looks up to see Michael's expressionless face CIRCLED
Come with me. Meanwhile, fire is spreading quickly under the car... Michael pulls Audrey from the flaming vehicle.
Run.
Michael!
 Get back! BURSTING OUT OF THE FLAMES, Michael marches confidently into the diner. Jeep slams the door CLOSED just as the WALL OF
I'll get some water! Charlie dashes behind the counter to the sink.    She fills up a pitcher of water. She turns away from the sink with the filled pitcher... And SCREAMS! The YOUNG BOY with the lifeless white eyes stands before her wielding an ENORMOUS BUTCHER'S KNIFE. The pitcher shatters LOUDLY on the floor. The boy swings the knife at her, slicing open the waitress outfit covering her pregnant belly. Charlie tumbles back to the ground behind the counter. She frantically pushes herself away from the approaching boy.
C'mon, don't be scared. I just wanna play with your baby. That's it.    She's backed against the end of the counter! The boy raises the knife to strike. Charlie grabs a baking pan off a shelf. Swings it out in front of her body like a shield, as the KNIFE IS DRIVEN DOWN. CLANG! The knife hits the pan hard and stops. But the boy's hands don't. They slip off the handle and run right down the blade. The knife CLATTERS to the ground. The boy instinctively raises his hands to strike again, but there's no knife. Charlie watches in horror as the boy calmly realizes that his THUMBS ARE MISSING. Blood sprays from the stumps. Charlie pulls her legs in close then rockets them out at the boy's chest. He's catapulted away from her. Michael leaps over the counter, landing in front of Charlie, guns ready for action. But the boy is gone.
Are you hurt? Charlie shakes her head no.
Where is he?! That's when the electricity goes out once again, PLUNGING THE
He's still in here! FLASHLIGHT BEAMS fan out across the diner. LIGHTING under chairs.    Under tables.
Where the fuck is he?! A SCAMPERING SOUND... MOVING FAST.    Everybody spins to track the location of the sound.
He's bleeding!
Jeep raises his LIGHT UP THE WALL WHERE THE TRAIL OF BLOOD
What the fuck?
Dad! Jeep can't get a clear shot.       Bob's gasping for air. Michael grabs the boy and fiercely rips him off of Bob's back. He swings the boy around like a living shot put.
Get ready! Jeep and Bob whip up their guns as Michael throws the wicked creature into the air. Sandra's vacant face flickers in the light as the SOUND OF GUNFIRE AND INHUMAN SCREAMING fill the diner. And then in moments...      All is QUIET. BEHIND THE COUNTER, Audrey helps Charlie to her feet.       She WINCES. Doubles over, clutching her stomach.
Oh, no! Michael lowers his flashlight.      CLEAR FLUID runs down Charlie's legs.
TITLE:   "December 25th - 3:33am" The sound of CHARLIE'S SCREAM, carries us to:
What am I supposed to do? Just `cause I'm a girl doesn't mean I automatically know how to do this!
Just do as I say.
Yeah, but, how do you know how to do this?!
Charlie's SCREAMING rises up from below.
What a way to bring a child into the world.  She ever tell you his name?
She's never said. I just assumed it was Joe Danvers. You know how she's always had a thing for bad boys. Bob hears the spite in Jeep's voice.
Jeep, sooner or later she'll realize you're the best thing that's ever happened to her.
I thought you said I should move on?
Can't a father be wrong sometimes? Jeep considers Bob with a smile, then comes the sound... A DEEP, LONG, BODY RUMBLING TONE rising up off the plain, as if emanating from the largest HORN ever constructed.
What was that...? The SPECTRAL LIGHTS dot the landscape now with untold numbers.
What is that?!
He's coming. We have to hurry.
Who's coming? Whaddya mean hurry? This isn't something you can exactly hurry, is it?
Charlie, I need you to push. I need you to push as hard as you can.
Michael, who's coming?! Charlie pushes, tears streaming down her face, delirious with pain. It's a gruesome, bloody affair. It's getting close.
We're almost there...
We're not gonna make it outta here, are we? Bob looks at his son.   The agony stretched across his face.
I'm sorry Jeep. This shouldn't be happening to you... Jeep rests a comforting hand on his father's shoulder. Bob pulls his son close and hugs him with all his might, tears filling his eyes.
...and then comes a BABY'S CRIES.   Audrey, eyes wide, holds up the CHILD. Stunned. Elated.
Oh my god...we did it!    Charlie, you did it! Audrey places the child in Charlie's arms. She stares at the baby, holding it at a distance, unsure of whether to embrace it or be terrified by it. A commitment she's not yet ready to make, even at this late hour.
I don't...I... Audrey looks to Michael, unsure.
Take him... Give her a minute. Audrey nods, takes the baby back from Charlie, tries to soothe him by pacing around the diner.
It's okay...It's okay...Shhh... Another DRONE OF THE HORN RATTLES THE WALLS.      Menacing. Closer. Audrey   reacts, crosses to the counter, turns on the radio, trying   to drown out the sound of the approaching menace. Out of the   STATIC, the haunting sounds of BING CROSBY singing SILENT   NIGHT fills the room. The quiet before the storm. Michael helps Charlie quickly clean herself up.     She stares at him, a burning spite in her eyes.
So are we safe now?   Is it over?
No. Killing the child would have ended the war before it had begun. Now, at least, he will have a chance to grow up, a chance to lead the world out of darkness. Those words provide her little comfort.
And what happens until then...?
You'll need to teach him how. Charlie shakes her head, this is all too much.
What makes you think I can do that? What makes you think I want to do that? If he's so important, why don't you take him?
Each of us has a burden. This one is yours and yours alone. Maybe someday you'll understand what that means. Off Charlie's look, we move across the diner where Audrey approaches her mother, kneels down in front of her. Despite how much her mother pisses her off, it breaks her heart to see her in such a demoralized state.
Mama? Can you hear me?  We did it...The baby's alive.
The sound of WINGS BEATING AGAINST THE WIND.
Something's happening.    They're moving away.
The Possessed can't come near the child, so He sent someone that can. Someone like me.
Who?
Gabriel. My lieutenant.      He's come to do what I wouldn't. ON JEEP as the realization hits him.
Your orders... Michael looks at Jeep.
You were the one who was supposed to kill the baby? That was the order you didn't obey. Michael nods grimly.    Charlie looks urgently at Michael.
What's he talking about? The baby CRIES LOUDER.
Michael, what the hell's he talking about?!
There was never meant to be a Second Coming. But we've just changed that. The child lives. The future is unwritten. There's still hope. Charlie, shaken by this revelation, reaches out to Audrey.
Audrey...? Audrey moves to hand over the baby to Charlie...
Stay away from me!    Don't come any closer!
Mom!
Don't do it, lady!
You heard what he said. They just want the baby. Maybe if we just give it to them, then they'll let us go! Michael cocks his gun.   Points it at Sandra.
Give him to me!
Why?! You never wanted him in the first place! Charlie stares at her in horror, the truth of those words rattling her to the very core.
No...   I... Sandra is almost to the front door.
It's just one baby.   Just one.
Jeep watches the baby sail SLOWLY through the air. The time for Jeep to act is now! Jeep DIVES for the baby...catching the bundle of rags mere inches from the ground! And then he looks up to see... The dark SILHOUETTE OF A MAN approaching from out of the spectral light. A MAN WITH WINGS. Jeep's eyes grow wide as the FIERCE ANGEL steps into the diner. But this looks like no angel we've seen before. This is a creature built for war. Rough hewn, battle scarred. His body armor making him appear disturbingly insect like. His wings are not feathery or gentle. Rather they are hard, mechanical, an organic machine. The angel's wings retract with clockwork-like precision. And now that we see the his face clearly, we notice his striking resemblance to Michael. We might even mistake them for brothers. His name is GABRIEL. Gabriel raises a massive, ferocious, strangely mechanical looking MACE in his powerful hands. And the world returns to NORMAL SPEED as Gabriel brings the mace arcing down at Jeep. Jeep rolls! CLANG! The weapon just misses him, hitting the floor in a spray of sparks, literally CRACKING THE GROUND. Gabriel brings the mace up again.   Jeep won't be so lucky twice.
Sonuvabitch! Bob charges at the creature, sub-machine gun blazing. Gabriel reacts by instantly UNFOLDING HIS WINGS and launching himself into the air. The bullets clawing up the wall behind him. But Bob's heroic move has given Jeep time to get up and run with the baby for the back of the diner. He thrusts the child into Charlie's hands. And without even thinking, she pulls the child protectively to her chest.
No! With a sweep of his hand, Gabriel sends Bob flying across the diner where he crashes down behind the counter near the stove. Michael GRABS JEEP'S HAND before the boy can rush back into the fray.
No, Jeep! You must protect the child now!
Me?!   What about you?
My path ends here. You are the true protector. You always have been. Jeep shakes his head, panic setting in.
But I don't know what to do!
Find the Prophets.   Learn to read the instructions. Michael lets go of Jeep's hand and turns away to face Gabriel, leaving Jeep to contemplate those final words.
Prophets? What Prophets?   What instructions?! And that's when Jeep opens his hand to find the KEYS to Michael's Police Cruiser. Jeep looks up from the keys to see Charlie, Audrey and the baby. The responsibility crashing in on him. Then he closes his hand around the keys, determination building.
C'mon!
Wait!     We can't leave him!
We have no choice!    We have to get to Red Rock! He pulls Charlie past the counter toward the back office. Jeep stops when he sees his father's broken body lying on the ground by the stove in a pool of his own blood. Bob's half open eyes focus on his son. In his outstretched hand is that goddamn ZIPPO LIGHTER... and next to that, a BROKEN GAS PIPE leading to the stove. Jeep is terrified.
Dad! Jeep tries to help him up.
Leave me, Jeep.     My place is here, remember?
But Dad...! Bob smiles weakly at his son and says simply:
Run. And so Jeep, fighting back tears, does what his father says.
I knew he'd send you, Gabriel. You were always so eager to please Him.
Unlike you...the rebellious son.  Pity about your wings. They would have helped you now.
To not feel their burden...is a dream.
You think you can defy Him and not pay the price?
The child lives. What happens to me doesn't matter now.
Yours is a fool's sacrifice. You can help them sneak out the back door, but they won't escape.
There is no other way... He pulls back from Michael, raising the mace -- SCHING! -- LONG DEADLY SHARP SPIKES BURSTS FROM ALL ITS SIDES...as if it wasn't bad-ass enough. And the fight begins.
With the aid of his wings, Gabriel moves with staggering speed, defying gravity to avoid the rain of bullets. The place is getting absolutely shot to hell. Michael leaps from table top to table top as Gabriel brings the mace brutally down -- splintering everything it touches. Michael leaps onto the last unbroken table top -- spins to fire. Gabriel pushes into the air, jabbing a spike straight into the barrel of Michael's MP5. The gun explodes in Michael's hands, sending him rocketing backwards where he lands on the counter. Gabriel swoops in fast. Michael kicks him in the chest, sending him fluttering back. Michael thrusts himself to his feet.   Gabriel recovers, jabs again. Michael grabs a hold of Bob's ceiling mounted TV for support and lifts his body just above the deadly spike. Michael kicks Gabriel in the head, momentarily stunning him. Michael dives at Gabriel, landing an awesome flurry of punches. Gabriel is rattled back by the assault.   He clumsily lifts his mace and thrusts with it. Michael narrowly evades the razor point, which drives into a wall. Michael smashes down on Gabriel's wrist, CRACKING the bones. A swift kick to the chest and Gabriel is thrust crashing back, losing his grip on the weapon. Michael takes a running leap onto Gabriel's back. Gabriel launches wildly into the air, trying to throw Michael off. They hit the ceiling, but Michael hangs on. Choking the life out of Gabriel.
It's in. Jeep turns the key but the ENGINE STRUGGLES TO FIRE UP. Panic.
Come on, Jeep!
I'm trying! Jeep gives it some gas, but the ENGINE'S NOT CATCHING. A DARK SHAPE POUNCES ONTO THE HOOD OF THE CAR. The light catches it, revealing the disfigured face and beard of a SHOPPING MALL SANTA CLAUS, his oversized belly gruesomely distended. Charlie screams.
Fuck! Jeep pumps the gas and the ENGINE BURSTS TO LIFE! The creature's about to punch a fist through the glass
(throwing the car in
Hang on! Jeep floors it, causing the cruiser to rocket backwards toward the highway.
BONES CRUNCH as a flash of red and white is sent sailing over the car and tumbling down onto the road behind them in a cloud of dust. Jeep clenches the wheel, pedal to the floor.
Okay, we need to figure out our weapon situation.   Hopefully Michael didn't take everything out of the car. Jeep places his Glock on the dash. He sees that he's got a police issue shotgun in the front seat rack. Charlie searches under her seat.   Pulls out a...GRENADE.
Is this what I think it is?
Yes. Now just put it down... Slowly. Charlie places it onto the seat. Audrey fishes around in the backseat.
 Okay, all I got is a flare gun thing. Looks like we got a box of flares to go with it.
Okay. Okay. Handgun. Shotgun. A a flare gun... And a grenade. Alright.  Load this.
I can try.
Try real hard, okay? Audrey anxiously sets about loading the flare gun.
Gabriel spots his mace sticking out of the wall within arms reach. He grabs it, holding it futilely in front of him. From this angle he'd never be able to hit Michael with it. Gabriel's strength is giving way. Michael is winning. Gabriel lets out a tremendous ROAR and plunges one of the mace's long spikes into his own stomach. Michael's eyes go wide with surprise, his grip loosens. Gabriel has run them both through. Gabriel rips the mace from his body and stumbles forward. Blood pours from a huge hole in Michael's chest.   Right through his heart. Gabriel looks down at the hole in his own belly. Not nearly as bad as Michael's. Apparently there's not a lot of blood left in this guy. Michael falls to his knees.   Weakening. Gabriel looms over Michael.   Michael looks up at him, blood leaking from his mouth.
You always wanted to live like one of them...Now you'll know how it feels to die like one of them. Gabriel raises the mighty mace above his head. Michael closes his eyes.   Submitting. The mace comes swinging down...
Go faster!
I can't fuckin' see! Charlie's desperately trying to soothe her SCREAMING baby. ON THE AIR VENTS as FLIES start crawling in.
Oh, no.
Jeep, your arm! Jeep sees it, eyes go wide.
What is it? A beat, as Jeep remembers Michael's parting words...
The instructions...
Sorry...   We're closed. And with one last brush of his thumb, Bob's trusty ZIPPO
Gabriel's eyes go wide as the TINY FLAME DANCES in front of the stove's broken gas line. Gabriel spins and runs like hell as the gas explodes.
The swarm, it's fading! Jeep looks back to the road as, sure enough, the FLY SWARM suddenly dissipates all around them, revealing a CLEAR VIEW of the highway ahead. Jeep knows at what price this good fortune has come.
Thank you...
Oh, shit!
I can't believe it.   Is it really over...? Up front Jeep stares out at the dark road ahead.
No...It's just starting...
Better not hold him too long. Might get attached. Charlie looks over, feels his lingering anger.
Look, I'm sorry for what I said to you earlier, `bout you following me around. I didn't mean it.
Nothin' to be sorry about. It's true. I did follow you around. At least now I know there was a good reason. Charlie's reacts, a bit stung. Jeep tries to hide his pleasure that the tables have turned at least a little. Charlie is about to respond when Audrey leans in from the back seat.
We're here. She points ahead to a beaten up road sign that says: "Now Entering Red Rock National Park, Next Rest Stop 30
Okay, all we gotta do is --
The roof buckles above them.   The windows BLOW OUT.
Jeep! Jeep swings the gun around.
Duck! BLAM! Gabriel takes one in the shoulder, but it doesn't slow him down.
Audrey, the flare gun! Audrey desperately tries to load a flare while avoiding Gabriel's grasp. Jeep can't get off another shot without the risk of hitting Audrey. Gabriel is almost entirely in the car now. Audrey swings the flare gun toward Gabriel, but he knocks her hand aside just as she pulls the trigger and the flare goes off INSIDE THE CAR! Jeep ducks. The CAR SWERVES MADLY. The flare RICOCHETS through the cabin, lighting it up like the Fourth of July! Gabriel lunges for Charlie just as the flare bounces off the windshield - PING! - and nails him right in the face, SETTING
Get down on the floor! Charlie pushes herself and the baby down on the floor in front of the passenger seat. Jeep PUNCHES IT.   The speedometer leaps ahead.
Gabriel's now completely in the car.   They're helpless. Gabriel lunges over the passenger seat, grasping for Charlie, his ferocious hand only inches from her and the baby, when...
Get off her, you fucking asshole! Audrey leaps onto Gabriel, pulling him away from Charlie just in time. He flails wildly about but this young girl rides him like one helluva a cowboy.
Do it, Jeep! Do it now!
Charlie crawls up from the floor.
C'mon, Jeep!
Jeep! She kicks open her door and begins pulling him out.
The baby?
Alive.
And what about...
Nothing could have survived that.
She saved us, Jeep. Audrey saved us. Now c'mon, we gotta go! Charlie, the baby bundled in her hands, leads Jeep away from the demolished Cruiser.
How can this happen?
What?
How can this happen in a world so beautiful? Jeep follows her gaze to the sky. Endless stars.    Confounding. Jeep shifts his eyes to the TOP OF THE RIDGE just ahead.
C'mon, we're almost there. They are only a few steps from the EDGE OF THE RIDGE when --
Jeep throws a wild punch, connects with Gabriel's chin, rocking him back. More annoyed than surprised, Gabriel knocks Jeep savagely to the ground. Jeep struggles quickly to his feet, comes right back at Gabriel swinging. But Gabriel simply knocks him to the dirt again. Jeep slowly gets up once more, bleeding, hurt.   Raises his fists. This kid will simply not give up. Jeep moves in again, swinging hard, but Gabriel blocks it, shoots out a hand and grabs Jeep by throat, lifting him clear off the ground.
So brave. So pointless. You should have worried more about saving yourself. Jeep's feet dangle. His eyes bulge out. He claws at Gabriel's iron-fast grip, but there's no hope. Charlie watches in horror.
Stop!   Please! Don't kill him! But Gabriel is doing just that. Jeep is rapidly losing consciousness. The battle is lost.
Go to sleep... Jeep's eyes flutter.   He's almost gone.
Stop it!   I'LL GIVE YOU THE BABY! This gets Gabriel's attention. Charlie climbs to her feet, holding the bloody bundle out to him.
I don't want this responsibility! Tears run down her face.   She's dead fucking serious. Gabriel lets go of Jeep.   He falls to the ground, gasping desperately for air.
Charlie, no! Gabriel takes the bundle from Charlie, turning away from her.
"And as the child's cries are extinguished, an eternal darkness at last descended upon the world." He peels the cloth back, revealing...
He spins around to face Charlie. She's holding the pin.
We made it.
Yep, we sure did. And now we see it too:
I'm sure they're just over the next ridge. He glances at Charlie.    Worry in her eyes.
What if we're on our own now?
Don't be afraid.    We'll be okay.
Someday when my son is older, I will tell him about the time of his birth when all the world was covered in a great darkness...
... And how just at the moment when everything seemed lost... Charlie sits across from him, the baby cradled in her arms. It's strange, but you might actually mistake them for a happy family. Of course you'll have to ignore the ARSENAL OF WEAPONRY in the back seat.
...a mighty warrior fell in order to save me. Jeep glances over at Charlie and the baby.   He smiles at the image of maternal bliss.
And a boy faced his fear and rose up to save us all. The sun shines through the car windows, filling our eyes with its fiery light.
