Home port of the French navy
Ha - Ha -
Ha - Ha - Look down, look down Don't look them in the eye
Look down, look down You're here until you die.
No God above And Hell alone below
Look down, look down There's twenty years to go.
I've done no wrong Sweet Jesus, hear my prayer!
Look down, look down Sweet Jesus doesn't care.
I know she'll wait I know that she'll be true -
Look down, look down They've all forgotten you.
When I get free You won't see me Here for dust!
Look down, look down Don't look'em in the eye.
How long, O Lord Before you let me die?
Look down, look down You'll always be a slave. Look down, look down You're standing in your grave.
Now Prisoner 24601. Your time is up And your parole's begun. You know what that means?
Yes. It means I'm free.
No! It means you get Your yellow ticket-of-leave.
This badge of shame You'll show it everywhere. It warns you're a dangerous man.
I stole a loaf of bread My sister's child was close to death And we were starving.
You will starve again Unless you learn the meaning of the law.
I know the meaning of those nineteen years A slave of the law!
Five years for what you did, The rest because you tried to run. Yes, 24601!
My name is Jean Valjean!
And I'm Javert! Do not forget my name. Do not forget me - 24601!
Look down, look down You'll always be a slave. Look down, look down You're standing in your grave.
Freedom at last - How strange the taste! Never forget the years - the waste, Nor forgive them for what they've done. They are the guilty - Everyone! The day begins 
And now lets see What this new world Will do for me!
Monsieur can I help? A day's work?
Take your hat off.
Passport.
No work here.
Valjean.
My inn is full.
Jailer. Would you let me stay here for tonight?
This is a prison, not an inn. Get yourself arrested. Then we will open up for you.
Come in, sir, for you are weary And the night is cold out here. Though our lives are very humble What we have we have to share.
There is wine here to revive you. There is bread to make you strong. There's a bed to rest till morning - Rest from pain, and rest from wrong.
Sit, my brother.
Madame, set one more place.  Please sit.
May the Lord bless the food we eat today. Bless our dear sister and our honoured guest.  Please, eat. Where are you travelling to my brother?
Pontarlier.
Is that where your family is?
No. The destination is compulsory. That is where the Law sends me. I have no home.
Then let this be your home, for as long as you need it.
Sleep well. Tomorrow morning before you leave you will have a cup of milk from our cows, nice and hot.
You let me sleep here next to you? How do you know I'm not a murderer?
God will take care of that.
Monsignor, we caught the thief red-handed! He has the nerve to say you gave him all this!
That is right.
But my friend, you left so early, You forgot I gave these also. Would you leave the best behind?
 Messieurs, release him. For this man has spoken true. I commend you for your duty Now God's blessing go with you.
But remember this, my brother - See in this some higher plan. You must use this precious silver To become an honest man. By the witness of the martyrs, 
By the passion and the blood, God has raised you out of darkness - I have bought your soul for God.
What have I done? Sweet Jesus, what have I done? Become a thief in the night Become a dog on the run! And have I fallen so far And is the hour so late That nothing remains but the cry of my hate? The cries in the dark that nobody hears Here where I stand at the turning of the years.
My life was a war that could never be won. They gave me a number and murdered Valjean When they chained me and left me for dead Just for stealing a mouthful of bread! Yet why did I allow this man To touch my soul and teach me love? He treated me like any other He gave me his trust He called me brother. My life he claims for God above... Can such things be? For I had come to hate the world - This world that always hated me!
I feel my shame inside me like a knife. He told me that I have a soul... How does he know? What spirit comes to move my life? Is there another way to go?
I am reaching, but I fall And the night is closing in... As I stare into the void - To the whirlpool of my sin.
I'll escape now from that world - From the world of Jean Valjean. Jean Valjean is nothing now!
Another story must begin!
At the end of the day you're another day older And that's all you can say for the life of the poor. It's a struggle! It's a war! And there's nothing that anyone's giving. One more day standing about - What is it for? One day less to be living.
At the end of the day you're another day colder And the shirt on your back doesn't keep out the chill. And the righteous hurry past They don't hear the little ones crying And the plague is coming on fast Ready to kill - One day nearer to dying!
At the end of the day there's another day dawning And the sun in the morning is waiting to rise Like the waves crash on the sand Like a storm that'll break any second There's a hunger in the land There's a reckoning still to be reckoned And there's gonna be hell to pay At the end of the day!
 At the end of the day you get nothing for nothing! Sitting flat on your bum doesn't buy any bread!
 And in a bed!
At the end of the day just be glad to be working For a master who cares for the lives of the poor.
Bless the man who leads the way! At the end of the day!
At the end of the day its another day over With enough in your pocket to last for a week Pay the landlord, pay the shop Keep on working as long as you're able Keep on working till you drop Or it's back to the crumbs off the table Well, you've got to pay your way At the end of the day!
Give that letter to me It is none of your business. With a husband at home And a bit on the side! Is there anyone here Who can swear before God She has nothing to fear? She has nothing to hide?
What is this fighting all about? Will someone tear these two apart? This is a factory, not a circus.
Now come on, ladies, settle down. I run a business of repute.
 Deal with this, Foreman. Be as patient as you can.
Now someone say how this began!
Yes, it's true there's a child And the child is my daughter And her father abandoned us, Leaving us flat. Now she lives with an innkeeper man and his wife And I pay for the child. What's the matter with that?
At the end of the day she'll be nothing but trouble And there's trouble for all when there's trouble for one! While we're earning our daily bread She's the one with her hands in the butter - You must send the slut away Or we're all going to end in the gutter And it's us who'll have to pay At the end of the day!
I might have known the bitch could bite! I might have known the cat had claws! I might have guessed your little secret! Ah yes, the virtuous Fantine Who keeps herself so pure and clean - You'd be the cause, I had no doubt Of any trouble hereabout. You play a virgin in the light But need no urging in the night!
She'll be nothing but trouble again and again!
Sack the girl today!
Right, my girl! On your way!
M'sieur Mayor, help me! I have a child!
I introduce myself, Inspector of Police. I've come to take the watch I'm here to keep the peace. Please know me as Javert.
Welcome, sir Come guard our laws I'm sure we're here In common cause.
You've done the city proud, You've raised their banner high. 
You manufacture gems That anyone can buy Your people thrive.
The dignity of toil To stay alive.
It seems to me We may have met.
Your face is not a face I would forget.
Get back! It may fall!
No, Monsieur le Mayor!
It'll kill you as well!
Can this be true? I don't believe what I see! A man your age To be as strong as you are! A memory stirs... You make me think of a man From years ago A man who broke his parole.. He disappeared.
Forgive me, sir. I would not dare -
Say what you must. Don't leave it there.
Let me help you up.
Monsieur le Mayor, you come from God! You are a saint!
No more cart driving for you!
Monsieur le Mayor.
Excuse me, is this where the Pawnbrokers is?
 It's just there.
Thank you.
I smell women! Smell'em in the air! Think I'll drop my anchor In that harbour over there!
Lovely ladies! Love `em till your broke! Seven months at sea can make you Hungry for a poke!
Even stokers need a little stoke!
Hello sweetheart, I'll give you four francs.
It's worth at least ten.
Alright, five.
What pretty hair! What pretty locks you've got there! What luck you got. It's worth a centime, my dear! I'll take the lot!
Don't touch me! Leave me alone!
Let's make a price. I'll give you all of ten francs. Just think of that!
It pays a debt...
Just think of that.
What can I do? It pays a debt. Ten francs may save my poor Cosette.
Quick and cheap is underneath the pier
Please, you wouldn't have any work for me would you? Please, I sold you my hair. I could do anything.
Go and see them.
You have, my dear, The clear advantage of youth.
 Just the back ones.
The pain won't last, You'll still be able to bite.
I do it fast, I know my business all right. It's worth a go.
You'll pay me first What I am due.
You'll get twice If I take two!
God, we're weary, Sick enough to drop!
Cheer up, deary! Show a happy face! Plenty more like you here If you can't keep up the pace.
Gimme the dirt - Who's that bit over there?
A bit of skirt, She's the one sold her hair.
She's got a kid, Sends her all that she can.
I might've known There is always some man.
Lovely lady, come along and join us! Lovely lady!
Come on, dearie, why all the fuss?
... why all the fuss.
You're no grander than the rest of us.
... than the rest of us.
Life has dropped you at the bottom of the heap.
...at the bottom of the heap.
Join your sisters -
Make money in your sleep!
... make money in your sleep.
That's right, dearie, Show him what you've got!
... show him what you've got.
That's right, dearie, Let him have the lot!
...let him have the lot.
Old men, young men, take'em as they come! Harbour rats and alley cats And every kind of scum! Poor men, rich men, leaders of the land - See them with their trousers off, They're never quite as grand! All it takes is money in your hand!
Lovely ladies Going for a song, 
Got a lot of callers But they never stay for long...
Come on, Captain, you can wear your shoes. Don't it make a change to have a girl who can't refuse?
Easy money lying on a bed. Just as well they never see The hate that's in your head! Don't they know they're making love To one already dead?
There was a time when men were kind, When their voices were soft And their words inviting. There was a time when love was blind And the world was a song And the song was exciting. There was a time... Then it all went wrong.
When hope was high And life worth living. I dreamed that love would never die. I dreamed that God would be forgiving. 
There was no ransom to be paid, No song unsung, no wine untasted.
He took my childhood in his stride But he was gone when autumn came.
That we will live the years together... But there are dreams that cannot be And there are storms we cannot weather...
So different now from what it seemed! Now life has killed the dream I dreamed.
Here's something new. I think I'll give it a try. Come closer, you! I like to see what I buy. The usual price For just one slice of your pie.
I don't want you! No! No, M'sieur! Let me go!
Is this a trick? I won't pay more!
No, not at all!
You've got some nerve, you little slut! You've got some gall! It's the same with a tart as it is with a grocer The customer sees what he gets in advance It's not for the whore to say "yes sir" or "no sir" It's not for the harlot to pick and to choose or to lead me a dance!
I'll kill you, you bastard! Try any of that! Even a whore who has gone to the bad Won't be had by a rat!
 By Christ you'll pay for what you've done! This rat will make you bleed, you'll see! I guarantee I'll make you suffer! For this disturbance of the peace For this insult to life and property!
I beg you, don't report me, sir. I'll do whatever you may want.
Make your excuse to the police!
Tell me quickly what's the story. Who saw what and why and where? Let him give a full description, Let him answer to Javert! In this nest of whores and vipers Let one speak who saw it all. Who laid hands on this good man here? What's the substance of this brawl?
Javert, would you believe it? I was walking, it was dark When this prostitute attacked me You can see she's left her mark!
She will answer for her actions When you make a full report. You may rest assured, M'sieur, That she will answer to the court.
There's a child who sorely needs me, Please, m'sieur, she's but that high. Holy God, is there no mercy? If I go to jail she'll die.
I have heard such protestations Every day for twenty years. Let's have no more explanations, 
Save your breath and save your tears.
A moment of your time, Javert. I do believe this woman's tale.
Monsieur le Mayor!
You've done your duty. Let her be. She needs a doctor, not a jail.
Monsieur le Mayor!
Can this be?
Where will she end - This child without a friend?
I've seen your face before. Show me some way to help you. How have you come to grief In such a place as this?
M'sieur, don't mock me now, I pray It's hard enough I've lost my pride. You let your foreman send me away. Yes, you were there And turned aside. I never did no wrong.
Is it true what I've done -
My daughter's close to dying.
- to an innocent soul?
If there's a God above -
Had I only known then!
He'd let me die instead.
In His name my task has just begun. I will her to the hospital.
Monsieur le Mayor!
Bring Cosette back to me.
Where is she?
At an inn in Montfermeil...
Monsieur le Mayor!
I will see it done! I will send for her immediately!
From Paris, Monsieur.
Monsieur le Mayor I have a crime to declare! I have disgraced The uniform that I wear. I've done you wrong, Let no forgiveness be shown. I've been as hard On every rogue I have known. I'll bear the blame, I must be treated Just the same.
I don't understand. What is this crime, Javert?
I mistook you for a convict, I have made a false report. Now I learn they've caught the culprit - He's about to face the court.
And of course the thief denies it, You'd expect that from a con. But he couldn't run for ever, No, not even Jean Valjean.
You say this man denies it all, And gives no sign of understanding or repentance? You say this man is going to trial, And that he's sure to be returned to serve his sentence?
He will pay, and so must I. Press charges against me, sir!
You have only done your duty It's a minor sin at most. All of us have been mistaken You'll return, sir, to your post.
Must I do as you say?
It's your duty to obey!
They think that man is me - Without a second glance. This stranger they have found - This man could be my chance!
I am the master of hundreds of workers - They all look to me. Can I abandon them? How would they live If I am not free?
Can I conceal myself for ever more? Pretend I'm not the man I was before? And must my name until I die Be no more than an alibi?
My soul belongs to God, I know, I made that bargain long ago. He gave me hope when hope was gone! He gave me strength to journey on! Who am I? Who am I? I'm Jean Valjean!
And so, your honour, you see it's true That man bears no more guilt than you! Who am I? 24601!
If you don't believe me ask Inspector Javert. He knows where to find me.
Monsieur le Mayor, you are not well, you must come with me, do you have a carriage outside? Monsieur le Mayor, we must get you home to bed immediately!!
Is her daughter with her?
No, monsieur. Her guardian sent this.
`Money not enough. Send more. Thenardier.' What sort of man is this?
Cosette, it's turned so cold! Cosette, it's past your bedtime! You've played the day away And soon it will be night.
EMPTY_LINE
Don't you see, the evening star appearing? Come to me, and rest against my shoulder, How fast the minutes fly away and every minute colder?
Dear Fantine, Cosette will be here soon! Dear Fantine, she will be by your side
 Come Cosette, the night has grown so cold!
 Be at peace! Be at peace ever more.
My Cosette -
- shall live in my protection.
Take her now!
Your child will want for nothing.
Good m'sieur, you come from God in heaven.
And none shall ever harm Cosette as long as I am living.
Take my hand... The night grows ever colder.
Then I will keep you warm.
Take my child I give her to your keeping.
Take shelter from the storm.
For God's sake, please stay till I am sleeping... And tell Cosette I love her And I'll see her when I wake...
Valjean, at last We see each other plain! `M'sieur le Mayor' You'll wear a different chain!
Before you say another word, Javert, Before you chain me up like a slave again, Listen to me! There is something I must do. This woman leaves behind a suffering child. There is none but me who can intercede - In mercy's name, three days are all I need, Then I'll return, I pledge my word! Then I'll return...
You must think me mad! I've hunted you across the years. Men like you can never change - A man such as you!
Believe of me what you will There is a duty that I'm sworn to do. You know nothing of my life - All I did was steal some bread. You know nothing of the world - You would sooner see me dead. But not before I see this justice done!
Men like me can never change. Men like you can never change. No, 24601! My duty is to the law. You have no rights. Come with me, 24601!
I am warning you, Javert, I'm a stronger man by far! There is power in me yet! My race is not yet run!
Now the wheel has turned around - Jean Valjean is nothing now. Dare you talk to me of crime And the price you had to pay. Every man is born in sin Every man must choose his way.
And this I swear to you tonight -
There is no place for you to hide.
Your child will live within my care -
Wherever you may hide away -
And I will raise her to the light.
I swear to you, I will be there!
There is a castle on a cloud I like to go there in my sleep. Aren't any floors for me to sweep, Not in my castle on a cloud.
 She says, Cosette, I love you very much.
I know   a place where no one cries. Crying   at all is not allowed, Not in   my castle on a cloud.
Now look who's here! The little madam herself, Pretending once again She's been so awfully good! Better not let me catch you slacking! Better not catch my eye! Ten rotten francs your mother sends me - What is that going to buy? Now take that pail, My little Mademoiselle, And go and draw some water from the well. We should never have taken you in In the first place - How stupid the things that we do! Like mother, like daughter, the scum of the street.
Eponine, come my dear. Eponine, let me see you. You look very well in that little blue hat! There's some little girls who know how to behave And they know what to wear And I'm saying thank heaven for that!
Still there, Cosette? Your tears will do you no good! I told you to fetch some water from the well in the wood.
 Please do not send me out alone. Not in the darkness on my own.
 Enough of that, or I'll forget to be nice! You heard me ask for something, And I never ask twice!
Mine host Thenardier He was there, so they say, At the field of Waterloo.
Got there, it's true, When the fight was all through But he knew just what to do.
Crawling through the mud, So I've heard it said, 
Picking through the pockets of the English dead.
He made a tidy score from the spoils of war.
My band of soaks, My den of dissolutes, My dirty jokes, my always pissed as newts, My sons of whores, Spend their lives in my inn! Homing pigeons homing in - They fly through my doors, And their money's as good as yours!
Welcome, m'sieur! Sit yourself down And meet the best Innkeeper in town!
As for the rest - All of them crooks Rooking the guests And cooking the books. Seldom do you see Honest men like me A gent of good intent Who's content to be -
Master of the house! Doling out the charm Ready with a handshake And an open palm
Tells a saucy tale Makes a little stir Customers appreciate a bon-viveur Glad to do a friend a favour Doesn't cost me to be nice But nothing gets you nothing Everything has got a little price!
Master of the house! Keeper of the zoo! Ready to relieve'em Of a sou or two -  Watering the wine
Making up the weight Picking up their knick-knacks When they can't see straight Everybody loves a landlord Everybody's bosom friend! I do whatever pleases - Jesus! Won't I bleed'em in the end!
Master of the house! Quick to catch your eye 
Never wants a passer-by To pass him by!
Servant to the poor Butler to the great Comforter, philosopher and lifelong mate Everybody's boon companion Everybody's chaperone -
But lock up your valises - Jesus! Won't I skin you to the bone!
Enter, messieurs! Lay down yer load Unlace yer boots And rest from the road. This weighs a ton Travel's a curse But here we strive To lighten your purse.
Here the goose is cooked Here the fat is fried And nothing's overlooked Till I'm satisfied - Food beyond compare Food beyond belief
Mix it in a mincer And pretend it's beef Kidney of a horse 
Liver of a cat Filling up the sausages With this and that!
Residents are more than welcome Bridal suite is occupied
Reasonable charges Plus some little extras on the side.
Charge'em for the lice Extra for the mice Two percent for looking in the mirror twice. Here a little slice There a little cut Three percent for sleeping with the window shut. When it comes to fixing prices There are lots of tricks he knows How it all increases All those bits and pieces - Jesus! It's amazing how it grows.
Master of the house! Quick to catch your eye Never wants a passer-by To pass him by!
Servant to the poor Butler to the great Comforter, philosopher and lifelong mate Everybody's boon companion Gives'em everything he's got -
Dirty bunch of geezers Jesus! What a sorry little lot!
I used to dream That I would meet a prince But God almighty Have you seen what's happened since? `Master of the house' Isn't worth my spit! Comforter, philosopher And lifelong shit! Cunning little brain Regular Voltaire Thinks he's quite a lover But there's not much there.
What a cruel trick of nature Landed me with such a louse. God knows how I've lasted Living with this bastard in the house!
Master of the house!
Master and a half!
Comforter, philosopher -
Don't make me laugh!
Servant to the poor Butler to the great -
Hypocrite and toady And inebriate!
Everybody bless the landlord! Everybody bless his spouse!
Everybody raise a glass!
Raise it up the master's arse!
Everybody raise a glass to the master of the house!
Hush now, do not be afraid of me. Don't cry. Show me where you live. 
Tell me, my child, what is your name?
I'm called Cosette.
Cosette?
I found her wandering in the wood This little child, I found her trembling in the shadows. And I am here to help Cosette, And I will settle any debt you may think proper. I will pay what I must pay To take Cosette away.
Now your mother is with God. Her suffering is over, And I speak here with her voice, And I stand here in her place, and from this day, and ever more -
Let me take your coat, m'sieur!
Cosette shall live in my protection.
You are very welcome here!
I will not forget my vow.
Take a glass!
Take a chair!
Cosette shall have a father now.
What to do? What to say Shall you carry our treasure away? What a gem! What a pearl! Beyond rubies is our little girl! How can we speak of debt? Let's not haggle for darling Colette!
Cosette!
Cosette - Dear Fantine - gone to rest - Have we done for her child what is best? Shared our bread - shared each bone - Treated her like she's one of our own! Like our own, m'sieur!
Your feelings do you credit, sir. And I will ease the parting blow. Let us not talk of bargains and bones and greed.
Now may I say we are agreed?
That would quite fit the bill If she hadn't so often been ill. Little dear, cost us dear! Medicines are expensive, m'sieur. Not that we begrudged a sou - It's no more than we Christians must do.
One thing more! One small doubt! There are treacherous people about! No offence! Please reflect! Your intentions may not be correct!
No more! Here's your price! Fifteen hundred for your sacrifice. Come, Cosette, say goodbye. Let's seek out some friendlier sky. Thank you both for Cosette - It won't take you too long to forget.
Where I go, you will be.
Will you be like a Papa to me?
Yes, Cosette! This is true! I'll be father and mother to you!
Not bad!
Not enough!
There's a copper at the door! What the devil have you done?
Where's the child Cosette?
She's gone with a gent, Didn't tell us where they went, Didn't leave his home address.
Did you catch the fellow's name?
You're a bloody fool Look at what we got.
Should have struck the iron, Struck it while it's hot.
Next time round we'll be here And we're gonna get the lot.
Suddenly I see Suddenly it starts When two anxious hearts Beat as one. Yesterday I was alone Today you walk beside me Something still unclear Something not yet here Has begun. Suddenly the world Seems a different place Somehow full of grace 
And delight.
Nevermore apart You have warmed my heart Like the sun. You have brought the gift of life And love so long denied me.
Te lucis ante terminum Rerum Creator poscimus Ut pro tua clementia Sis praesul et custodia...
Procul recedant somnia Et noctium phantasmata 
Hostemque nostrum comprime Ne polluantur corpora...
Who's that?
Why, it's Monsieur Mayor!
Who are you?
Don't you remember? The cart fell on me!
Monsieur Fauchelevent!
You saved my life! You got me this job as a gardener!
Now you can do the same for me. We need a place of sanctuary. This child and I, we need to disappear.
In this place of Holy Orders You are brought to God's domain May the sisters grant you shelter May their prayers ease your pain.
We'll give thanks for what is granted What the sisters may ordain Here we pray for new beginnings - Here our lives can start again.
Look down and see the beggars at your feet! Look down and show some mercy if you can! Look down and see the sweepings of the street! 
Look down, look down, Upon your fellow man!
`Ow do you do? My name's Gavroche! These are my people, here's my patch. Not much to look at - nothing posh! Nothing that you'd call up to scratch. This is my school, my high society! Here in the slums of St Michel. We live on crumbs of humble piety Tough on the teeth - but what the hell! Think you're poor? Think you're free? Follow me! Follow me!
Look down and show some mercy if you can! Look down, look down, upon your fellow man!
There was a time we killed the King We tried to change the world too fast. Now we have got another King, He is no better than the last. This is the land that fought for liberty - Now when we fight we fight for bread! Here is the thing about equality - Everyone's equal when they're dead. Take your place! 
Take your chance! Vive la France! Vive la France!
Look down and show some mercy if you can! Look down, look down, upon your fellow man!
When's it gonna end?
When we gonna live?
Something's gotta happen now!
Something's gotta give!
Where are the leaders of the land? Where are the swells who run this show?
Only one man, General Lamarque Speaks for the people here below!
Lamarque is ill and fading fast - Won't last a week out, so they say.
With all the anger in the land, How long before the Judgement Day?
Before we cut the fat ones down to size?
Before the barricades arise?
Look down, look down, don't look us in the eye! Look down, look down, stay here and you die!
Tomorrow we will return!
Tell everyone you know
We will show them!
Lamarque is the only leader on our side!
We have a right to pray for Lamarque!
We need more people, then the police will not dare ride against us!
Vive le General Lamarque!
Do you have any idea of the shame you bring on your family! You're behaving like a child.
Hey there Monsieur what's new with you? Haven't seen much of you of late. Planning no doubt to change the world? Plotting to overthrow the state? Still living here in this old sewer Might as well doss down in a ditch You still pretending to be poor Everyone knows your Grandpa's rich
How did you...?
There's lots of things I know
Won't take a franc that I've not earned All of those bridges have been burned.
I like the way you talk Monsieur!
I like the way you always tease.
Little he knows - Little he sees.
Everyone here, you know your place - Brujon, Babet, Clacquesous - You, Montparnasse, watch for the law - With Eponine - take care. (Montparnasse hurries over to the doorway where Eponine was watching Marius) You turn on the tears! (to Madame Thenardier who is holding a baby) No mistakes, my dears!
Please, M'sieur, come this way. Here's a child that ain't eaten today. Save a life, spare a sou! God rewards all the good that you do.
Wait a bit! Know that face!  Ain't the world a remarkable place!
Men like me don't forget - You're the bastard who borrowed Cosette!
What is this? Are you mad? No, Monsieur, you don't know what you say!
You know me! I know you! And you'll pay what I'm due.
 It's the police! Disappear! Run for it! It's Javert!
Another brawl in the square! Another stink in the air! Was there a witness to this? Well, let him speak to Javert!
Monsieur, these streets are not safe. But let these vermin beware, We'll see that justice is done!
Look upon this fine collection Crawled from underneath a stone. This swarm of worms and maggots Could have picked you to the bone! I know this man over here, I know his name and his trade. And on your witness, m'sieur, I'll see him suitably paid.
But where's the gentlemen gone? And why on earth did he run?
You will have a job to find him! He's not all he seems to be - And that girl he trails behind him She's the child he stole from me!
Could it be he's that old jailbird That the tide now washes in? Heard my name and started running... All the omens point to him.
And the girl who stood beside him, When I turned they both had gone. Could he be the man I've hunted? Could it be he's Jean Valjean?
In the absence of a victim, Dear Inspector, may I go? And remember when you've nicked him It was me what told you so.
 Let the old man keep on running I will run him off his feet!  Everyone about your business!
That inspector thinks he's something But it's me who runs this town! And my theatre never closes And the curtain's never down! Trust Gavroche! Have no fear! You can always find me here!
Cosette! Now I remember... Cosette! How can it be? We were children together. Look what's become of me.
Eponine! Who was that girl?
That bourgeois two-a-penny thing!
Eponine, find her for me!
What will you give me?
Anything!
Got you all excited now, But God knows what you see in her. Aren't you all delighted now? No, I don't want your money, sir.
Eponine, do this for me, Discover where she lives. But careful how you go - Don't let your father know. Eponine! I'm lost until she's found.
You see? I told you so! There's lots of things I know! Eponine, she knows her way around.
There, out in the darkness A fugitive running Running from God Fallen from grace - God be my witness I never shall yield Till we come face to face - Till we come face to face...
Shall have their reward And if they fall As Lucifer fell - The flame!
Stars in your multitudes! Scarce to be counted Filling the darkness With order and light - You are the sentinels Silent and sure Keeping watch in the night - Keeping watch in the night...
And your aim And each in your season Returns and returns And is always the same And if you fall As Lucifer fell You fall In flame!
On the doorway to paradise That those who falter And those who fall Must pay the price!
Well, Courfeyrac! Do we have all the guns? Joly, Prouvaire! Our time is running short!
Students, workers, everyone! There's a river on the run! Like the flowing of the tide, Paris is coming to our side!
Enjolras! At Notre Dame The sections are prepared!
At Rue du Bac They're straining at the leash!
Grantaire, put the bottle down! Did we get the guns we need?
Give me brandy on my breath And I'll breathe them all to death!
The time is near... So near it's stirring the blood in their veins. And yet beware! Don't let the wine go to your brains. For the army we fight is a dangerous foe With the men and the arms that we never can match. It is easy to sit here and swat them like flies But the National Guard will be harder to catch. We need a sign To rally the people To call them to arms To bring them in line!
Marius, wake up! What's wrong today? You look as if you've seen a ghost.
Some wine, and say what's going on!
A ghost, you say? A ghost maybe! She was like a ghost to me - One minute there - then she was gone!
I am agog! I am aghast! Is Marius in love at last? I've never heard him Ooh and Aah. You talk of battles to be won 
And here he comes like Don Juan! It is better than an opera!
It is time for us all To decide who we are. Do we fight for the right To a night at the opera now? Have you asked yourselves What's the price you might pay? Is this simply a game For rich young boys to play? The colours of the world Are changing day by day -
Had you seen her today You might know how it feels To be struck to the bone By a moment of breathless delight!
Red!
I feel my soul on fire!
Black!
My world if she's not there!
Red!
The colour of desire!
Black!
The colour of despair!
Marius, you're no longer a child - I do not doubt you mean it well But now there is a higher call! Who cares about your lonely soul? We strive towards a larger goal - Our little lives don't count at all!
Red!
The blood of angry men!
Black!
The dark of ages past! Red - a world about to dawn! Black - the night that ends at last!
Listen! Listen to me!
Listen, everybody!
General Lamarque is dead!
Lamarque is dead... Lamarque... His death is the hour of fate. The people's man... His death is the sign we await! On his funeral day they will honour his name With the light of rebellion ablaze in their eyes. From their candles of grief we will kindle our flame. On the tomb of Lamarque shall our barricades rise!
Let us welcome it gladly with courage and cheer!
Let us take to the street with no doubt in our hearts
But a jubilant shout!
They will come one and all!
They will come when we call!
How strange - This feeling that my life's begun at last! This change - Can people really fall in love so fast? What's the matter with you, Cosette? Have you been too much on your own? So many things unclear - So many things unknown...
Does he see what I see? Does he feel what I feel?
Dear Cosette, You're such a lonely child. How pensive, how sad you seem to me. Believe me, were it within my power I'd fill each passing hour. How quiet it must be, I can see, With only me for company.
There's so little I know That I'm longing to know Of the man that you were In a time long ago... There's so little you say Of the life you have known, Why you keep to yourself, Why we're always alone. So dark! So dark and deep, The secrets that you keep! In my life Please forgive what I say You are loving and gentle and good. But papa, dear papa, In your eyes I am still like that child Who was lost in a wood.
No more words - No more words. It's a time that is dead. There are words That are better unheard, Better unsaid.
In my life I'm no longer a child and I yearn For the truth that you know Of the years... Years ago!
You will learn. Truth is given by God To us all in our time, In our turn.
In my life She has burst like the music of angels The light of the sun! And my life seems to stop As if something is over And something has scarcely begun! Eponine, you're the friend Who has brought me here. Thanks to you I am one with the Gods And heaven is near! And I soar through a world that is new, That is free!
Every word that he says Is a dagger in me! In my life There's been no one like him anywhere, Anywhere, where he is If he asked... I'd be his!
In my life There is someone who touches my life -
 Waiting near!
Waiting here!
A heart full of love!
A heart full of song! I'm doing everything all wrong - Oh God, for shame - I do not even know your name. Dear Mad'moiselle, Won't you say? Will you tell?
A heart full of love! No fear, no regret!
My name is Marius Pontmercy.
And mine's Cosette.
Cosette... I don't know what to say -
Then make no sound.
I am lost -
I am found!
A heart full of light -
A night bright as day -
And you must never go away, Cosette - Cosette!
This is a chain we'll never break.
Do I dream?
I'm awake.
A heart full of love -
He was never mine to lose Why regret What could not be?
A heart full of you -
These are words he'll never say Not to me, not to me Not for me!
A single look and then I knew!
I knew it too!
His heart full of love...
From today -
He will never feel this way.
Every day...
For it isn't a dream - Not a dream After all!
Cosette! Cosette!
This is his lair! I've seen the old fox around.
He keeps himself to himself He's staying close to the ground.
I smell profit here! Ten years ago He came and paid for Cosette. I let her go for a song. It's time we settled the debt. This'll cost him dear.
What do I care Who you should rob? Gimme my share! Finish the job!
You shut your mouth! You'll get what's yours!
What have we here?
Who is this hussy?
It's your brat Eponine! Don't you know your own kid? Why's she hanging about here?
Eponine, get on home! You're not needed in this. We're enough here without you.
I know this house, I tell you! There's nothing here for you! Just the old man and the girl. They live ordinary lives.
Don't interfere! You've got some gall! Take care, young miss, You've got a lot to say!
She's going soft!
Happens to all!
Go home, Eponine! Go home, you're in the way!
I'm gonna scream! I'm gonna warn them here!
One little scream and you'll regret it for a year!
Make for the sewers! Get underground! Leave her to me, Don't wait around!
You wait, my girl! You'll rue this night! I'll make you scream! You'll scream all right!
My God, Cosette! I heard a cry in the dark. I heard the shout of angry voices in the street.
Three men I saw beyond the wall... Three men in shadow moving fast!
This is a warning to us all! These are the shadows of the past!
Must be Javert. He's found my cover at last. I've got to get Cosette away Before he returns.
We must get away from shadows That will never let us be. Tonight we leave Cosette!
To where?
Rue de L'Homme Armee.
No! No!
And then a ship across the sea.
Hurry, Cosette! Prepare to leave, And say no more. Tonight we'll away!
 No! Please no! We can't go!
Hurry, Cosette! It's time to close another door And live another day!
Please give this to Marius! He must know where to find me.
And now I'm all alone again - Nowhere to turn, no one to go to. Without a home, without a friend, 
Without a face to say hello to. The city goes to bed And I can live inside my head.
In the rain The pavement shines like silver All the lights Are misty in the river In the darkness the trees are full of starlight And all I see is him and me forever and forever!
I came to tell you she's gone.
Gone? What do you mean?
She's gone to England.
One day more! Another day, another destiny. This never-ending road to Calvary. These men who seem to know my crime Will surely come a second time - One day more!
I did not live until today - How can I live when we are parted?
One day more!
Tomorrow you'll be worlds away And yet with you my world has started!
One more day all on my own...
Will we ever meet again?
One more day with him not caring...
I was born to be with you!
What a life I might have known...
And I swear I will be true!
But he never saw me there.
One more day before the storm!
Do I follow where she goes?
At the barricades of freedom!
Shall I join my brothers there?
When our ranks begin to form -
Do I stay and do I dare?
 Will you take your place with me?
The time is now! The day is here! One day more!
One day more to revolution. We will nip it in the bud. We'll be ready for these schoolboys. They will wet themselves with blood!
One day more!
Watch'em run amuck! Catch'em as they fall! Never know your luck When there's a free-for-all. Here a little dip, There a little touch - Most of them are goners So they won't miss much!
One day to a new beginning! Raise the flag of freedom high! Every man will be a king! Every man will be a king! There's a new world for the winning! There's a new world to be won! Do you hear the people sing?
My place is here! I fight with you!
One day more!
I did not live until today How can I live when we are parted?
One more day on my own...
I will join these people's heroes I will follow where they go. I will learn their little secrets, I will know the things they know.
One day more!
Tomorrow you'll be worlds away And yet with you my world has started.
One more day to revolution We will nip it in the bud We'll be ready for these schoolboys -
Watch'em run amuck Catch'em as they fall Never know your luck When there's a free-for-all!
Tomorrow we'll be far away.
Tomorrow is the judgement day.
Tomorrow we'll discover What our God in heaven has in store - One more dawn! One more day! One day more!
Do you hear the people sing Singing the song of angry men? It is the music of a people Who will not be slaves again!
When the beating of your heart Echoes the beating of the drums There is a life about to start When tomorrow comes!
Will you join in our crusade? Who will be strong and stand with me? Beyond the barricade Is there a world you long to see?
Then join in the fight That will give you the right To be free!
Do you hear the people sing Singing the song of angry men? It is the music of a people Who will not be slaves again! When the beating of your heart Echoes the beating of the drums There is a life about to start When tomorrow comes!
Will you give all you can give So that our banner may advance?
Some will fall and some will live Will you stand up and take your chance?
The blood of the martyrs Will water the meadows of France!
Do you hear the people sing Singing the song of angry men? It is the music of a people Who will not be slaves again!
Will you join in our crusade? Who will be strong and stand with me? Somewhere beyond the barricade Is there a world you long to see? Do you hear the people sing? 
Say, do you hear the distant drums? It is the future that we bring When tomorrow comes!
To the barricades!
To the barricades! To arms! To arms!
Here upon these stones We will build our barricade. In the heart of the city We claim as our own Each man to his duty And don't be afraid.
Wait! I will need a report On the strength of the foe.
I can find out the truth! I know their ways, Fought their wars, Served my time In the days Of my youth.
See! The people unite!
Pray your right
Dogs will bark!
Fleas will bite!
They will do what is right.
Red, the blood of angry men!
Black, the dark of ages past! Red, a world about to dawn! Black, the night that ends at last!
Hey, little boy, what's this I see? God Eponine the things you do!
I know this is no place for me, Still I would rather be with you!
Get out before the trouble starts! Get out, `Ponine, you might get shot!
I've got you worried now, I have! That shows you like me quite a lot...
Get Out!
He's back!
Listen, my friends, I have done as I said. I have been to their lines, I have counted each man. I will tell what I can. Better be warned They have armies to spare And our danger is real - We will need all our cunning To bring them to heel.
Have faith! If you know what their movements are We'll spoil their game. There are ways that a people can fight - We shall overcome their power!
I have overheard their plans. There will be no attack tonight. They intend to starve you out Before they start a proper fight - Concentrate their force, Hit us when it's light -
Liar!
Good evening, dear Inspector. Lovely evening, my dear! I know this man, my friends. His name's Inspector Javert! So don't believe a word he says Cause none of it's true. This only goes to show What little people can do.
Bravo, little Gavroche! You're the top of the class!
So what are we going to do With this snake in the grass?
Tie this man and take him To the tavern in there! The people will decide your fate, Inspector Javert!
Shoot me now or shoot me later - Every schoolboy to his sport! Death to each and every traitor! I renounce your people's court!
Take this man. Bring him through. There is work we have to do.
When are they coming!?
Who's there?
French Revolution.
Fire!
 Comrades, do not fire back! Do not waste powder!
Who's there? Get down!
Vive la France!
Fire!
Clear out or I'll blow up the barricade!
Blow it up then and take yourself with it!
And myself with it!
 Thank you!
What were you thinking!
Eponine! What have you done?
Here... It's from Cosette... I kept it from you...
Don't be too hard on me...
Eponine, you're hurt! You need some help!
Don't you fret, M'sieur Marius - I don't feel any pain. A little fall of rain Can hardly hurt me now. You're here - that's all I need to know And you will keep me safe And you will keep me close And rain will make the flowers grow...
But you will live, Eponine - Dear God above! If I could close your wounds with words of love -
Just hold me now, and let it be. Shelter me... Comfort me...
You will live a hundred years If I could show you how... I won't desert you now...
The rain can't hurt me now... This rain will wash away what's past And you will keep me safe And you will keep me close I'll sleep in your embrace at last.
Hush-a-bye, dear Eponine You won't feel any pain A little fall of rain Can hardly hurt you now I'm here.
So don't you fret, M'sieur Marius I don't feel any pain A little fall of rain Can hardly hurt me now...
I will stay with you Till you are sleeping.
That's all I need to know And you will keep me safe 
And you will keep me close And rain.. Will make the flowers... Grow...
They were the first to fall. The first to fall upon this barricade.
Her name was Eponine! Her life was cold and dark, yet she was unafraid!
We fight here in her name...
She will not die in vain...
She will not be betrayed...
 Are you alright?
That was my sister.
Gavroche! Do you know the Rue de l'Homme Arm?
Course I do!
Will you take this for me?
Letter for Cosette.
I'll take it.
Something for you, something for me. Who needs charity?
`Dearest Cosette, you have entered my soul And soon you will be gone. Can it be only a day since we met And the world was reborn? If I should fall in the battle to come Let this be my goodbye. Now that I know you love me as well It is harder to die. I pray that God will bring me home To be with you. Pray for your Marius. He prays for you.'
They haven't got a chance, these boys They almost certainly will die She'll be alone And she will need me all the more And we will go on as before When he is gone I dare not think like this I must find this boy
Don't shoot!
Here comes a man in uniform! What brings you to this place?
I come here as a volunteer.
Approach and show your face!
You wear an army uniform.
That's why they let me through.
You've got some years behind you, sir.
There's much that I can do.
You see that prisoner over there?
A volunteer like you!
A spy who calls himself Javert!
He's going to get it too!
Don't shoot! I know him! He's no soldier!
For your presence of mind, For the deed you have done, I will thank you, M'sieur, When our battle is won.
Thank you, M'sieur.
Give me no thanks, M'sieur. There's something you can do.
If it is in my power.
Give me the spy Javert! Let me take care of him.
The law is inside out. The world is upside down.
Do what you have to do - The man belongs to you.
The enemy may be regrouping! Hold yourselves in readiness! Come, my friends, back to your positions! The dawn is breaking fast.
We meet again...
You've hungered for this all your life. Take your revenge. How right you should kill with a knife.
You talk too much. Your life is safe in my hands.
Don't understand...
Get out of here.
Valjean, take care! I'm warning you.
Clear out of here!
Once a thief, forever a thief. What you want, you always steal. You would trade your life for mine. Yes, Valjean, you want a deal! Shoot me now for all I care - If you let me go, beware! You'll still answer to Javert!
You are wrong, and always have been wrong. I'm a man no worse than any man. You are free, and there are no conditions - No bargains or petitions. There's nothing that I blame you for. You've done your duty, nothing more. No doubt our paths will cross again.
Go!
Courfeyrac, you take the watch - They may attack before it's light. Everybody keep the faith, For certain as our banner flies, We are not alone - The people too must rise!
Marius, rest.
Drink with me to days gone by!
Sing with me the songs we knew!
Here's to pretty girls Who went to our heads!
Here's to witty girls Who went to our beds!
Here's to them - (Marius sings to Valjean) And here's to you!
Drink with me to days gone by! Can it be you fear to die? Will the world remember you when you fall? Can it be your death Means nothing at all? Is your life just one more lie?
Drink with me To days gone by! To the life That used to be! At the shrine of friendship Never say die... Let the wine of friendship Never run dry! Here's to you And here's to me!
Do I care if I should die Now she goes across the sea? Life without Cosette Means nothing at all.. Please don't weep, Cosette, Should Marius fall. Will you weep, Cosette, For me?
God on high Hear my prayer 
In my need You have always been there. He is young He's afraid Let him rest Heaven blessed. Bring him home Bring him home Bring him home! He's like the son I might have known If God had granted me a son. The summers die One by one How soon they fly On and on And I am old And will be gone. Bring him peace Bring him joy He is young He is only a boy. You can take You can give Let him be Let him live, If I die, let me die Let him live Bring him home Bring him home Bring him home!
The people have not stirred.
Yet we will not abandon those Who still live in fear.
The people have not heard, Yet we will not abandon those who cannot hear. Let us not waste lives! Let all who wish to Go from here!
 Do you hear the people sing
Singing the song of angry men
 It is the music of the people Who will not be slaves again When the beating of your heart Echoes the beating of the drums There is a life about to start When tomorrow comes!
Enjolras! Ammunition's short.
I will go into the streets. There are bodies all around. Ammunition to be had. Lots of bullets to be found.
I can't let you go.
Let me go! He's no more than a boy. I am old. I have nothing to fear.
I volunteer!
Come back, Gavroche! Don't you dare!
Someone pull him down right now!
Look at me, I'm almost there!
Little people know When little people fight We may look easy pickings But we've got some bite! So never kick a dog When he's just a pup - We'll fight like twenty armies And we won't give up!
So you'd better run for cover When the pup grows -
No-o!
You at the barricades listen to this! The people of Paris sleep in their beds! You have no chance, No chance at all! Why throw your lives away?
Let us die facing our foes! Make them bleed while we can!
Make'em pay through the nose!
Make'em pay for every man!
Let others rise to take our place Until the earth is free!
Long live the republic!
Nothing here!
Here's a hint of gold Stuck into a tooth - Pardon me, m'sieur, You won't be needing it no more. Shouldn't be too hard to sell.
Well, someone's got to clean'em up, my friends, Before the little harvest Disappears into the mud. Someone's got to collect their odds and ends When the gutters run with blood.
Here's a tasty ring Pretty little thing Heart's no longer going And he's lived his little time, But his watch is ticking yet.
Where they kill for the bones in the street. And God in his heaven, He don't interfere Cos he's dead as the stiff at my feet! I raise my eyes to see the heavens And only the moon looks down. The harvest moon shines down!
How do I get out of here?
There! That way!
It's you, Javert! I knew you wouldn't wait too long. The faithful servant at his post once more. This man's done no wrong. And he needs his family's care.
I warned you I would not give in! I won't be swayed!
Another hour yet And then I'm yours And all our debts are paid.
The man of mercy comes again And talks of justice!
Come, time is running short - Look down, Javert! He's standing in his grave!
One more step and you die.
Then I die.
Take him, Valjean, Before I change my mind! I will be waiting... 24601!
Who is this man? What sort of devil is he? To have caught me in a trap And choose to let me go free? It was his hour at last To put a seal on my fate Wipe out the past And wash me clean off the slate! All it would take Was a flick of his knife Vengeance was his And he gave me back my life!
Damned if I live in the debt of a thief! Damned if I yield at the end of the chase! 
I am the law and the law is not mocked! I'll spit his pity right back in his face! There is nothing on earth that we share! It is either Valjean or Javert! How can I allow this man To hold dominion over me? This desperate man that I have hunted... He gave me my life! He gave me freedom!
It was his right... It was my right to die as well... Instead I live... But live in hell!
And my thoughts fly apart Can this man be believed? Shall his sins be forgiven? Shall his crimes be reprieved?
My heart is stone and still it trembles... The world I have known is lost in shadow Is he from heaven or from hell? And does he know That granting me my life today This man has killed me even so?
I am reaching but I fall And the stars are black and cold As I stare into the void Of a world that cannot hold...
Did you see them Going off to fight?
Children of the barricade Who didn't last the night.
Did you see them Lying where they died? Someone used to cradle them And kiss them when they cried.
Did you see them lying side by side?
Who will wake them?
No one ever will.
No one ever told them that A summer day can kill.
They were schoolboys Never held a gun Fighting for a new world that Would rise up like the sun.
Where's that new world Now the fighting's done?
Marius! You've come back to us!
Grandfather...
Rest, Marius. No more harsh words between us. I just thank God you're alive.
You've come home. To all of us.
Round and round And back where you began...
There's a grief that can't be spoken There's a pain goes on and on Empty chairs at empty tables Now my friends are dead and gone.
Here they talked of revolution Here it was they lit the flame Here they sang about tomorrow 
And tomorrow never came...
Oh my friends, my friends, forgive me That I live and you are gone There's a grief that can't be spoken There's a pain goes on and on...
What your sacrifice was for Empty chairs at empty tables Where my friends will sing no more.
Every day You walk with stronger step, You walk with longer step. The worst is over.
Every day I wonder every day Who it was brought me here From the barricade.
Don't think about it, Marius! With all the years ahead of us! I will never go away And we will be together Every day. Every day We'll remember that night And the vow that we made.
A heart full of love A night full of you The words are old But always true.
She was never mine to keep She is youthful, she is free...
Cosette, Cosette!
I saw you waiting and I knew -
Thank God, thank God you are here! Thank God, thank God you are home!
Waiting for you! At your feet!
At your call!
Love is the garden of the young Let it be Let it be! A heart full of love This I give you this day.
And it wasn't a dream Not a dream after all.
M'sieur, this is a day I never can forget. Is gratitude enough For giving me Cosette? Your home shall be with us And not a day shall pass But we will prove our love To you, whom we shall call A father to us both, A father to us all.
Not another word, my son. There's something now that must be done...
There lived a man whose name was Jean Valjean. He stole some bread to save his sister's son For nineteen winters served his time In sweat he washed away his crime.
Years ago, He broke parole and lived a life apart... How could he tell Cosette and break her heart? It's for Cosette this must be faced: If he is caught, she is disgraced... The time has come to journey on, And from this day he must be gone! Who am I? Who am I?
You're Jean Valjean!
Monsieur, you cannot leave! Whatever I tell my beloved Cosette She will never believe me.
Make her believe I have gone on a journey A long way away. Tell her my heart was too full for farewells - It is better this way. Promise me, Monsieur, Cosette will never know...
I give my word.
...What I have spoken, why I must go.
For the sake of Cosette, it must be so.
Where's he gone without a word That wouldn't be his way to go
All he asked for me to   say He's on a journey, far   away. Dear Cosette, he loves   you so Perhaps he will return   some day.
He can't leave us now What's our wedding day Without him giving me away? "LES MISERABLES" BLUE REVISIONS 20.5.2012          119.
Ring out the bells Upon this day of days! May all the angels Of the Lord above In jubilation Sing their songs of praise! And crown this blessed time With peace and love!
The Baron and Baroness du Thenard
I forget where we met... Was it not at the Chateau Lafarge Where the Duke did that Puke Down the Duchess's decolletage?
No, `Baron du Thenard', The circles I move in are humbler by far... Go away, Thenardier! Do you think I don't know who you are?
He's not fooled! Told you so! Show M'Sieur what you've come here to show. Tell the boy what you know! "LES MISERABLES" BLUE REVISIONS 20.5.2012          119A.
Pity to disturb you at a feast like this But 500 francs surely wouldn't come amiss.
In God's name say what you have to say.
 He speaks.  You pay!
What I saw, clear as light, Jean Valjean in the sewers that night, Had this corpse on his back Some boy he'd killed in a viscious attack. I was there, never fear! Even found me this fine souvenir!
I know this! This was mine! This is surely some heavenly sign!
And there's more! Mark this well - It was the night that the barricades fell.
Then it's true! Then I'm right! Jean Valjean was my saviour that night!
Jean Valjean - the old con. You pay up and I'll say where he's gone.
Not so loud! Here's for you. God forgive us the things that we do.
How's about some extra On a day so glad Our little orphan girl She hasn't done so bad. Raised in a convent Cash to spare - We want our share.
Quite the little nun, ain't she!
Where is he?
 The convent.
Ain't it a laugh? Ain't it a treat? Hob-nobbin' here Among the elite? Here comes a prince There goes a Jew This one's a queer But what can you do? (pulling Madame Thenardier onto the dance floor) Paris at my feet! Paris in the dust! And here's me breaking bread With the upper crust -
Beggar at the feast! Master of the dance! Life is easy pickings If you grab your chance!
Everywhere you go Law-abiding folk Doing what is decent
But they're mostly broke!
Singing to the Lord on Sundays
Praying for the gifts he'll send -
But we're the ones who take it - We're the ones who make it in the end!
Watch the buggers dance
Watch'em till they drop! "LES MISERABLES" BLUE REVISIONS 20.5.2012            121A.
Keep your wits about you And you stand on top!
Masters of the land
Always get our share
Clear away the barricades And we're still there! We know where the wind is blowing Money is the stuff we smell - And when we're rich as Croesus, Jesus! Won't we see you all in hell!
"LES MISERABLES" BLUE REVISIONS 20.5.2012          122.
Alone I wait in the shadows I count the hours till I can sleep. I dreamed a dream Cosette stood by It made her weep To know I die... Alone at the end of the day Upon this wedding night I pray Take these children, my Lord, to thy embrace And show them grace... God on high Hear my prayer Take me now To thy care Where you are Let me be Take me now Take me there Bring me home Bring me home!
M'sieur I bless your name...
I am ready, Fantine...
M'sieur lay down your burden...
At the end of my days...
You raised my child in love,
She's the best of my life...
And you will be with God.
Cosette?
Papa, papa, I do not understand - Are you all right? Why did you go away?
Cosette, my child! Am I forgiven now? Thank God, thank God, I've lived to see this day!
It's you who must forgive a thoughtless fool! It's you who must forgive a thankless man! It's thanks to you that I am living, And again I lay down my life at your feet. Cosette, your father is a saint! When they wounded me He took me from the barricade, Carried like a babe, And brought me home to you!
Now you are here Again beside me Now I can die in peace For now my life is blessed...
You will live, papa You're going to live It's too soon Too soon to say goodbye.
Yes, Cosette, forbid me now to die! I'll obey I will try...
On this page I write my last confession. Read it well When I at last am sleeping. It's the story Of one who turned from hating A man who only learned to love When you were in his keeping.
I know it, papa.
I'm ready now, Fantine.
Come with me Where chains will never bind you All your grief At last, at last behind you Lord in heaven Look down on him in mercy -
Forgive me all my trespasses And take me to your glory!
Take my hand I'll lead you to salvation Take my love For love is everlasting...
And remember The truth that once was spoken: To love another person Is to see the face of God...
Do you hear the people sing Lost in the valley of the night? It is the music of a people Who are climbing to the light For the wretched of the earth 
There is a flame that never dies Even the darkest night will end And the sun will rise.
They will live again in freedom In the garden of the Lord They will walk behind the plough- share They will put away the sword The chain will be broken And all men will have their reward!
Will you join in our crusade? Who will be strong and stand with me? Somewhere beyond the barricade Is there a world you long to see?
Do you hear the people sing? Say, do you hear the distant drums? 
It is the future that they bring When tomorrow comes!
Will you join in our crusade? Who will be strong and stand with me? Somewhere beyond the barricade Is there a world you long to see? Do you hear the people sing? Say, do you hear the distant drums? It is the future that they bring When tomorrow comes... Tomorrow comes!
