They found me.
I might have five minutes.
I'll never know how they got past security in a half-billion dollar building.
They've become sophisticated. Before they couldn't have done this. But now...?
I will never let them touch me.
My neighbor must've heard the noise. Opened his door to complain.
He bought me half a minute. I wish he hadn't. Last thoughts are self- pitying and mine are no exception: the waste. The waste of it all. I mean, how many of us ever know what it is to become... the perfect version of ourselves. I'd come that close. To having an impact on the world.
And now, the only thing I'd have an impact on...
... was the sidewalk.
Not so long ago, this was me.
I was a writer. Two years after my copywriting job at Dexter & Kerr came to a non-mutual end, I had, in an extraordinary burst of desperate energy, bullshitted my way into my first book contract. This was it:
Now, at last, I was ready to write.
Gearing up, that's all.
Getting psyched.
A few days did pass this way... maybe a few months...
Friends fled.
And banks became attentive. But just in case you think nothing ever happened to me....
I don't think I can keep this.
Just like that.
I was kind of under the impression you cared a little more than just--
If I didn't care, maybe I'd be able to stand to watch you do this.
Look, I'm going to give 90 pages to Mark on Friday. If you could just wait, see what he says-
Stop. You think I don't know what you do all day? I've loved you. I know the good stuff, and I know the shit.
And it's all shit to you now?
You're the one living it.  Don't think I don't know it's worse for you.
Then you know I could use a friend.
Don't you dare try that shit on me!
Well -- what'll work, then?
I see where it's going. You'll lose your apartment. And then what? You'll move in with me--
Not with that enthusiastic invite--
--And then it'll go on this way, and I'll rag on you, and finally boot you out -- and then what? I mean, have you run the film?
She knew what was beckoning: the lower bunk in my childhood bedroom in Newark. We'd even had sex on it once. And it was a thing to be pitied and avoided.
Lindy. I really thought I had it in me to do something. --I wasn't getting around it, but it was fucking there. And now, I, ah... don't think it is. There. --Anything. At all.
You know what...? I'd have had you move in anyway... if...
If, what?
If it was me you wanted. And not Melissa.
I never think about Melissa--!
I have to get back.
--Hey, well -- wait -- you didn't tell me what happened yesterday.
I got it.
You got it--?!
Yeah. I'll have my own assistant. You believe that?
 You deserve it, Lindy.
Yeah, thanks. I do.
Oh, please.
She was right. I was almost 35. No one talks about "potential" at 35. I had missed the on-ramp. Soon I'd be sleeping in the lower bunk of my childhood bedroom... my father happy to welcome me into the challenging field of dental supply inventory...
Eddie. Morgan.
Of all the useless relationships better forgotten and put away in mothballs, is there any more useless than... the ex-brother-in- law?
Shit! It's gotta be-- 9 years--?
But who's counting.
 Hey, you!!!
Jesus, Eddie, pack it on, why don't you?
Sedentary job, you know...
So you're still trying to write?
As a matter of fact, I've got a book contract.
How about you?  Still dealing, Vernon?
 Do I look like I'm still dealing?
No.
Come on, let's get a drink. I wanna hear about this book.
Nah, I should go--
You can't tell me you're a health nut, now. Not with that tire-
 Enticing invitation. Thanks.
C'mon, c'mon, one beer. Or I won't give `em back.
It's one o'clock in the afternoon, Vern.
When's that ever stopped you?
 Fuck.
So... how's Melissa?
Ah-hah. That's why you agreed to the beer.
I'm making conversation, Vern.
Well, I don't know how Melissa is.
How don't you know? You're her brother.
I don't see her. She lives upstate now, she's got some kinda internet home sales kinda job... a couple of kids...
A couple of kids...
Who's the husband?
What are you, jealous?
It's just a question, Vern.
Walked out on her, if you really want to know. But what do you care? You guys weren't even married six months, were you--? I mean, it was just a coke thing, right?
Is that what she said--?! "A coke thing."
But I wanna know about this book. How's it going?
 How's it going... Well... I'm behind. I'm behind on my book, and it's pretty well polluting my days and nights if you really want to know.
How much have you written of it?
Not one fucking word, Vern.
Wow. Creative problem, huh?
I think I have something that can help you.
Oh, no-- no, no, no-
You don't even know what it is.
You're still dealing.
No -- yeah --will you listen?! This isn't recreational. I've been doing some consulting for a PHARMACEUTICAL COMPANY--
You mean a lab in some little Yalie's basement? Give me a--
No, this is an exclusive product coming on-stream next year, they've had clinical trials, and it's FDA approved.
Okay, what is it?
What's in it?
Just take it. Get you over the hump.
I'm too old for this, Vernon.
Look, they've identified these receptors in the brain that activate specific circuits, and-- you know how they say you can only access like 20 percent of your brain? Well, what this does--
Vernon. Look at me. Do I look good? I smoke too much: my chest is sore. A fucking corpse has more energy than I do, I've got weird aches, possible lumps, rashes, maybe they're a condition, or a network of conditions. One of these days they're all going to hold hands, light up, and I'll keel over dead. My life's in the crapper, and I DON'T think it's going to take a sudden upswing into the stratosphere if I do some brand new, shiny designer DRUG!
 Gant.  When. --I know, but when?  Tell him we can't do that. He knows that's out of the question. We absolutely can't do that.
No, I'm not going to tell him! You tell him -- no, now!
Fucking people. I'm afraid I'm going to have to leave you here, Eddie. But let's hang out again, have another beer.
By the way, that's on the house.
I don't want it, Vern.
Don't be ungrateful, now. You know how much these things cost?
Eight hundred bucks a pop.
All the way home she was back on my mind ... Melissa.
She'd been so smart. Smarter than anyone around her. And oh, how she loved to provoke people...
--Oh, please, you think professional women mentor one another? You think there's some mutually supportive empathetic touch-feely network of kindly pie- bakers? --Those bitches hate each other! Quick, who was the worst boss you ever had? A woman, right?! We can't delegate, we can't command -- I mean, there's a reason we're not generals--!
I thought, by now, she'd be curing cancer, directing movies, running for the Senate...
What had happened? Her life made no sense. I mean, I could see a direct, plausible link between this Eddie, broke and buzzed at three o'clock in the afternoon, and an earlier Eddie...
...vomiting on his boss' desk during a presentation...
... or stealing his dying Aunt's Percocet.
But there was no link between my Melissa and this upstate Melissa dumped, cold-calling people from her living room.
40 long blocks later I was "home."
Well. There was less than nothing to lose.
I didn't want to see anybody.
Especially not my landlord's nasty young wife.
Tuesday.
Look, enough, okay--?
Just tell him-
Steve handles the rents. So feed your fucking bullshit to him.
I suddenly had extra reason to get away from her. I had thoughtlessly ingested a substance.
--Like the rent's not low enough--!
I had gotten remarkably little information from Vernon about what this drug would do.
You could be a bike messenger and come up with that!
...What if it was a hallucinogen... oh my God... listening to her rag, if I were tripping...? I'd jump out a fucking window.
--Look, I'm just telling you, he's been talking about calling these people he knows from the club to muscle you out -- I've told him not to do that, but he's really pissed.
And then... I felt it.
Levels more, layers more, 3-D more... galactically more. But the same. Just the depth and beauty... of clarity.
What's wrong?
W-What?
"I was blind but now I see."
You don't like me, and I don't blame you -- you see a schlumpy energy- sucking defeated sack of shit sponging off your husband. You're hoping I'll blow my brains out. But my existence shouldn't make you this upset. What is it?
Look, that's none of your-
Something wrong at school?
How do you know I'm in school!
People who aren't don't usually carry dry, academic constipated out of print books about Dorothea Lange.
Are you some kind of creep? Have you been following me?!
I just saw the book--
You can only see a corner of it. How did you know?
I've seen it before.
It was true. 12 years ago. In college...
...sitting on the couch of a T.A. I was trying to make, waiting for her to come back out of the bathroom... hoping she'd have a condom...
Somehow, my unconscious had served that up... a memory I'd never even recorded. Or was it there the whole time... and all I needed... was the access?
Vern was right. This was no recreational drug.
If you're writing a paper, that's not the book I'd use.
Well, who asked y-
Cal Berkeley has her oral history. I'd start there. Her son is still alive. You could Google him. Sons of famous people always want to dish dirt about their parents. You'd get something no one else has, and you'd've gone the extra mile, a nice little apple for the professor.
Information from the odd museum show, a half-read article, some PBS documentary, was all bubbling up to my frontal lobes, mixing itself together into a sparkling cocktail of useful information.
She didn't have a chance.
We'd really worked on her paper, too. In 45 minutes it was a polished gem. She was pleased.
One nice little side effect...? I stayed hard for hours.
Happy and sore, I returned home.
... But it couldn't be my home, could it? Who would live like this?
What was this drug? I couldn't stay messy on it, I hadn't had a cigarette in six hours...
...hadn't eaten... So. Abstemious and tidy. What was this -- a drug for people who want to get anal?
I wasn't high, wasn't wired --just clear. What I needed to do. And how to do it.
The next morning, I sent a little probe down into my brain. No surge of brilliance came up to greet me. I felt thick and stupid -- a shuffling zombie without my coffee and cigarette. In short...
I was back.
But something remained.
You're kidding.
No.
 Words have appeared on paper.
Yes.
Written by you.
Three pages. That's all you have to read. If you read them in the next hour, and you don't want to keep reading I'll give back the advance.
Eddie... give me a call when you get in...
Eddie, I'm 40 pages further in... call me... it's a little grandiose, but I'm still reading...
Okay, how did you do this? I'd, uh, I'd really like to -- shit, just call me the minute you get in, call. Okay? Okay.
But how would I finish? It was "enhanced" Eddie who displayed all that brilliance. Not me.
 Yeah?
Vern! It's Eddie.
Bad time, okay--?
Vern -- last night 90 pages just wrote themselves! I totally chucked the novel I pitched them --I suddenly SAW, Vern, how this whole societal economic class struggle -- and its solution -- didn't have to be futuristic or fictional -- it was actually ACHIEVABLE here, in our lifetime -- and I could just lay it out, like, like a manifesto, or something, like Mein Kampf except not by a crazy racist fuck!  Okay, I won't talk any more about this if you let me in.
Well, that was fast.
WHAT HAP-
Don't ask.
So, Eddie. I guess you're interested after all.
Yeah. That stuff's amazing.
It works better if you're already smart.
VERN-
You don't want to know.
What's... um... what's it called?
It doesn't have a street name yet, because it doesn't have a street profile. And that's the way we want it to stay. The boys in the kitchen are calling it MDT-48.
"The boys in the kitchen...?" Vern, that doesn't sound FDA approved.
"FDA-approved," that's a laugh. Did you really believe that shit?
Okay, so what did we have here? Some unknown, untested, possibly dangerous drug scammed out of some unidentified lab somewhere, given to me by a highly unreliable guy I hadn't seen in years.
So you want some more of it?
Yes. Definitely.
We'll talk about it. But first maybe you can do me a little favor.
Uh... sure.
You can see, I'm in no shape to go out right now. Will you hop down to the dry cleaners and get my suit? And maybe pick me up a little breakfast...?
It was amazing how quickly it all slotted back into place...
..the dealer-client dynamic......
...the easy sacrificing of dignity for the guaranteed return of a dime bag, or a gram, or in this case a little pill that was going to cost me a month's rent.
Yes... I... I need to report a murder. Eddie. Morgan. --Edward J. I won't.
It took them forever. And the longer I sat there, the clearer I saw... Vern had known whoever had done this. He'd opened the door.
And one guess what they'd been looking for.
At least you got your last meal.
You never did like to cook...
Let me see your hands.
Heyheyhey! I'm the one that called you!
... No, ex-wife's brother. I just ran into him on the street and he invited me up to, you know...
Buy some drugs?
Wha-- No! Talk! What're you --
Okay, fine, what did this guy do?
He was -- I don't know, I heard he was sort of an antiques dealer.
A dealer?
Yeah... of, uh... Viennese kind of... chairs... sort of curlicue leg kind of things--
 Yeah. That is correct. An Edward Morgan. He's here.
The victim's sister.
Melissa?
Eddie. You were there?
I hadn't heard her voice in 10 years.
Right before. I'd just run into him on the street.
God.  This is all so weird...
Melissa --you don't think I had anything to do with-
No, no, no, Eddie, I know that. I wish I was more surprised. He was... involved in some stuff... I better not say any more.
Not on this line, no.
Melissa... maybe...  
Eddie, I've got to do the funeral. And God knows what else. I just... we can't meet, okay?
Then... I'll see you at the funeral.
No. I don't want that - please don't... I'll call you at some point, when this is over. Okay?
Okay.
Okay.
Something doesn't jell here.
But I knew, when his attention wandered to something more pressing, that he was going to let me go.
Only then did it occur to me that someone could have followed me from Vern's apartment.
Probably not. Hopefully not. Worth the risk?
Back on MDT, it was obvious what I should do.
Vern's cash...
...combined with an unprecedented surge of motivation...
...enabled me to finish the book in four days.
A tablet a day... kept the torpor away. And what I could do with my day... was limitless.
I now had cultural appetites.
Learned to read music in a week...
Even half-listening to any language, I became fluent...
The only cloud was the nagging feeling I was being followed.
Was I? Or did MDT create paranoia?
The focal point of my existence quickly became... protecting my stash.
Call it a homage.
I had a new, improved game.
 So you're saying that any author who's commandeered adjective status, "Orwellian, Dickensian--"?
--is prosaic. Yes.
Which means a prosaic author's work rests on a foundation of acclaim-
OR ZEITGEIST-
So you're saying praise and fame are unrelated to achievement, that the greatest hits CD cannot possibly contain good songs? That Shakespeare's catchiness belies mediocrity?
I...
Well, then I'd guess you'd rather not hear about what I, personally, think could launch a thousand ships?
Fish in a barrel.
And it wasn't just women. I was, for the first time in my life, a presence...
Of course, all this seemed to work better with people I didn't know... than with people who knew me...
...so, Mom, your 401 K is totally mis-invested -- these guys are have done ONLY the most Pliocine era fundamental analysis and paid no attention to eye candy psychology surrounding the stock --  Okay, remember when I explained default flops? Did any of that stick?  CDS's? CDO's CBO's?
I quickly returned to the unfamiliar audience.
--Sure you get a short term spike, but wouldn't that rapid expansion devalue the stock completely in two years?
No, no, there are safeguards--
Against aggressive over-expansion? There aren't, because there are no safeguards in human nature.
We're wired to overreach -- you look at history, I mean, all the countries that ruled the world? Portugal? With its big, butch navy? All that's left is salt cod and cheap condos -- the Brits? Now they just sit on their dank little island, fussing over their suits. Nobody stops and thinks, hey, we're doing pretty well, we've got Poland and France, and a big Swiss bank account -- let's not invade Russia in the winter! Let's go home and pop a beer and live off the interest!
 Yeah. It'll all happen again.
Hey, I want in on it!
My brain was just pouring this stuff out. Everything I'd ever read, heard, seen, was now organized and available --here it is, here you go..
You must have a portfolio, but if you don't, I'd be very interested in working with you.
Thank you so much.
"I must have a portfolio." Very well -- if I must, I must.
But Vern's cash was low. And it takes cash to make cash...
But it takes cash to make cash...
I'd like to re-negotiate my advance.
Well... sit down, we'll be discussing that.
First, ah... I want to apologize, Eddie, if I in any way communicated a lack of faith in your abilities.
Mr. Dunham has read your pages, and we're prepared to make you what I hope will be a very exciting offer.
What would you say to ten thousand more and another forty down the road?
We think this could be an important title, maybe one in a series. I have to say, you came out of nowhere, but the good ones always DO-
 This isn't going to work.
What's not going to work? The money?
Eddie, we take you very seriously as a writer.
Yes, but I now see that writing, as a profession, is for marginalized whiners not fit for anything else.
No, I mean it, look at the life. Incarceration, loneliness, burrowing down into your own psyche, increasingly insulated from any truth, because you're not in the currents of the world any more, you're rattling around inside the cage of your brain, self- cannibalizing...
You don't think a best-selling author would disagree?
Oh, if you're good, there's some remuneration, eventually, after paperbacks, but at best your career'll be oozing along like a snail, a few thousand more copies, whoop-dee-doo, you're "developing a readership," -- for what? So you can end up in Phoenix on a Saturday night reading from your own work at some holdout indie book store to a bored audience of ten? --Half of them there for the wine and cheese?
Yes, but if your goal is to have a VOICE-
 I don't think any goal will be really achievable, Mark, until I'm sitting on a large pile of cash.
I would have to start very, very small... in a down market. No one was making money. But no one had MDT...
You've got your quantitive analysis - "quants..." Algorhythms to find minute price discrepancies... you're looking at numbers only. Price and volume patterns...
Armed with Vern's last 800 dollars, I made 4000 in a day.  It was too slow.
Next day: $7,500.00  Still too slow. I needed more capital...
Why not?
Because I don't see you before. And I don't fucking like you already. Why do I give you 100 thousand dollars?
Because I quintupled my money four days in a row.
You're lucky.
It's not luck.
Okay, you tricked their computer, you got some fix on the game.
You think?
So you're a crook.
And that's a problem for you because--?
You people all get caught.
I won't. And what if I do? You think I keep detailed records of my investors? You'll have your money back long before they figure out what happened.
Okay, you take this... you mine. You don't pay, you know what we do? We cut you around the waist, peel your skin, pull it up over your head and tie knot in it. And you don't die from that. You suffocate.
My new friend, Kevin Doyle, showed me how you could leverage two and a half times your cash at a day- trading firm...
I'd been upping the dose for over a week. It seemed to cut my learning curve.
It was instinct. But informed instinct -- instinct based on huge amounts of research, which, thanks to MDT, was conducted more rapidly and comprehensively than anyone at Lafayette Day Trading would ever know...
But not for the big fat defense contract he bribed his way into. That's still on. Should be announced in a week.
At the end of the week my brokerage account contained... over a million dollars.
I'd heard the old metaphors about the stock market: it was a collective nervous system, a global brain, a numerical representation of the will of God...
Whatever it was, I was jacked in, booted up - my mind was living tissue inside the greater, functioning whole.  By the end of the second week I had 2.6 in the bank....
The word quickly got out.
You have... 19 messages.
Four job offers... my bank, raising my line of credit... a reporter...
Listen, return my call, Mr. Morgan, this article's about you's gonna get written with or without your cooperation...
 All my new friends.
...you stupid shit, I be there Thursday for the money, ten o'clock!
And finally, Kevin Doyle, trying to sound casual.
Eddie, I was having drinks with a friend of mine, and... ah, you won't believe this...
Carl Van Loon wants to meet you?
Apparently he does.
But you're not in the finance game. What can you do for Carl Van Loon? (shaking her head, MYSTIFIED) Eddie-- I --
Since when do you speak... what happened to you?
Self-improvement month. Someone gave me a wake-up call.
God, Eddie -- I felt so bad about that.
Why? It stuck, didn't it?
You didn't do all this for me.
Who says I didn't? So what -- it's not getting over? Is that it?
All right, all right -- boy, you are really begging for it.
Begging for what.
"I'm proud of you."
Gosh. This is so unexpected.
I'm actually... more than proud. I'm a little...
... intimidated.
Of course, we started up again.
Her place...
My place...
Every place.
What are you doing, hon?
Nothing.
What, you think somebody's watching?
No.
Is there anything you want to tell me, Eddie? Now's the time.
With success comes enemies.
Old Chinese proverb?
No proverb. An inevitability.
You should sleep. Isn't your Van Loon meeting tomorrow?
What. What.
Then... I found myself at the door. With no consciousness that I had moved.
Are you all right?
When was the last time you ate something?
It had been three days.
Hey.
He'll be here in ten. Now look, since we have a minute, be warned: Van Loon's mercurial. 
I'm eating, Kevin.
You up for this? You sure? Because I've got a little bit on the line HERE-
Have a toast point.
So. Eddie Morgan.
What's your secret?
Medication. I'm on special medication.
--Yes, that's partially what I'm SAYING--
 Pattern recognition? So that's your snake-oil? Look, if there's one thing we all understand, it's understanding itself --that's how the business works...  Pattern recognition. Please.
 Of course, not everyone can understand the patterns.
Look, there's no time for human judgement anymore. You see a chance, you blink, and it's gone. We entered the age of decentralized, online decision- making, with the decisions being made by hundreds of millions of individual investors around the world, people who don't even know each other -- making a killing in less time than it takes to sneeze.
Until they weren't.
Same rules, even in a panic. It's not understanding how companies work. It's understanding how mass psychology works.
 And you have a formula.
 Well, from 12 thousand to two point eight million in ten days--
Yes. I do have a formula, Mr. Pierce.
 Delusions of grandeur.
I don't have delusions of grandeur.
I have an actual recipe for grandeur.
..and, oh, you know, she's on the wait list... Rosemary's pretty devastated...
My daughter went there. I'll call the school for you.
Eddie. Ride?
I don't know who you are, Eddie, or what your game is, but I'm sure of one thing: you don't work in this business. I'm up to my ass in investment guys, and you don't have their half-cocky, half-terrified line of bullshit. Which is not to say I like yours any better.
But you obviously pick your stocks in a way I haven't seen. So tell me. We're thinking of acquiring these companies. Take a few minutes. What's your take on them?
But these companies aren't the question, are they?
What do you mean?
Well -- you're upmarket energy -- what do you want with these little solar/windmill/hippie outfits?
--Unless you wanted to play both sides of the fence, control the whole energy enchilada. But these wouldn't get you there in emerging markets. You'd need...
Whoa, whoa. This must be some big- ass merger you're contemplating.
And there's really only one company with enough bling to justify a merger with Van Loon Associates...
Have you been talking to somebody-?
Carl, it's just rationalization.
Is Hank Atwood going to go for it?
You are either an amazing con artist or a very smart young man.
Come on -- the two of you together? The world would have to come to you begging for energy like Oliver Twist with his little bowl of gruel.
You realize that if the press got one whisper of -- I can't fucking believe I'm even discussing this--
It doesn't matter. It won't come off.
The word "brazen" does not even begin to go there.
You'd have to back off Libya.
Why? He's come this far--
I don't think you'd want to hear about it from some shmuck who needs a ride home.
You're a gusty little prick, Eddie.
Ooh. Now you're curious.
Yeah. I must admit. You've hit a couple pretty big buttons. Go on. Tell me what you think.
 It's getting late.
All right. You get your shot. Come to my office, tomorrow at ten, and tell me just exactly how the schmuck who needs the ride would re- structure this deal.
And you better be prepared.
I'm at your disposal.
You don't really live here...?
The Spartans weren't big on amenities.
Yeah. And they eventually got their asses kicked.
I didn't go in.
I wanted to walk, move, digest, ingest...
There are moments in life, moments when you know you've crossed a bridge, your old life is over. Van Loon was my bridge. One week, two weeks from now, I would be hobnobbing with ambassadors, flying to Dubai for meetings, blowing off supermodels, vacationing in Medici villas... And that too, was only a bridge...
Suddenly...
There was another skip.
How had I gone that last 20 blocks? I got another ten...
... then...
I was back uptown.
What bar was this? Was it Harlem...?
Same bar? Different bar? How long had passed...?
And it happened again--
And again...
And again...
And again...
When it finally stopped, I couldn't account for the last eight hours of my life.
There was nothing to do but walk home.
It was my first sleep in two days.
Should I? Would I start "skipping time" again?
Even off MDT, I decided to give Van Loon's files a shot.
They were fucking hieroglyphs.
Hello--? Eddie--? What are you talking about?
I can't make the meeting, I'm, uh... I'm sick.
Yeah, well, you can't have the fucking flu right now -- he'll never give you this chance again!
I need to, ah, analyze this data-
Already I recognized it... the thick tongue, the leaden synapses. It was regular Eddie - the Eddie that, now, was unbearable to be.
... Don't you get it?! This is your test--!
Well, I can't pass a fucking test right now!
And how am I going to look if you don't?
Okay, Kevin. Okay.
It was my first morning off MDT in a month. The beginnings of a headache was curling around my head like a big fat, greasy python.
But the time-skips had me scared.
My thought -- such as I had one -- was to tap dance with Van Loon until I could find out more about MDT.
What do you know about Hank Atwood?
Uh... iconoclast... owns, um, a lot of Colorado...
Uh-huh. So this is "prepared," Eddie?
What is this, Atwood 101? Everyone knows about Atwood.
Where was he two years ago?
Nowhere.
Two years ago Forbes didn't even have him on the radar.
Yeah, his Great Leap Forward.
The guy comes on, out of nowhere, so fucking strong he has me on the run. Beat me out of two properties, invests in bumfuck countries with no oil, places I wouldn't go near, sextuples his money.
...Always picks green technologies, invests in them, and a year later he owns them.
... found dead in her hotel room last night, victim of foul play.
...100 billion if he has a nickel... and I have to convince him, somehow, that I can raise his game.
An unidentified eyewitness has reported seeing a man with a limp leaving the scene. 
You can't tell me he's in this to improve the fucking planet. He owns a ball team.
Excuse me.
I couldn't have.
...or could I?
If I could walk, talk, conduct business, seduce a woman, fight-- with no memory... could I kill someone? Was it even me? Who was I?!
Hi, Eddie... it's Melissa. Listen, call me back as soon as you--
Melissa--?
 Eddie--?
Melissa, I want to talk to you. Please. Meet me somewhere...
We're talking now.
Nonono -- at Charlie's, across the street. At two.
You can't see me, Eddie.
Please. Melissa -- it's important, please come -- you have to tell me what you're talking about!
I realized that there were other people who might know about MDT...
Vernon's other clients.
Hello, may I speak to Paul Kaplan, please?
 Who is this?
I'm a journalist. From Electronics Today magazine.
Look... my husband died three days ago.
I'm... I'm so sorry. Goodbye.
I, ah, may I speak to Jerry Brady?
Jerry's in -- who's this?
Uh-- Bill Johnson.
Well Bill... Jerry's in the hospital...  ...and he's really sick.
Oh my God. What's wrong with him?
We don't know. He just started getting these headaches a couple of weeks ago...? Then, uh, last Wednesday he collapsed at work...
Of all the people I called, three were dead, and the rest were sick.
Hello...? Hello...?
In the end, my stupidity saved me.
What was I dealing with? Who could tell me? I hoped against hope... that Melissa would show.
Eddie...?
Melissa...?
You... how are you doing?
Don't tell me I look good, because I know I don't. I didn't want you to see me this way...  You look good.
I guess I lost some weight...
Yeah, well, MDT'll do that to you.
I know you've been doing it. I just read the Post. Eddie. Short-selling stocks? Second-guessing the markets? You? Come on.
Since when do you read the Post?
These days, the Post's about all I can read.
Melissa, what do you mean?
I mean, I did it too. And I only took nine or ten hits. Vernon didn't tell you any of this, did he?
No.
Well, when he told me about this amazing new drug... 
Why?
I'm not stupid. I mean, nobody can keep up that level of mental activity and not crash. I stopped taking it.
And...?
I got sick. Headaches, throwing up... I went back to Vernon to see if I maybe shouldn't take another hit, or half a hit, and then he told me about... about the people who were dying. One guy didn't die, but he's a vegetable, his mother has to sponge him down every day...  How much have you been taking, Eddie?
A lot.
Well, maybe they've worked out the bugs. Maybe... maybe this isn't the same batch...
You're off it right now, aren't you?
Yeah.
Are you getting a headache?
Finish your story.
Well, I didn't take more. And I didn't die. But after a while I found I couldn't concentrate on anything for longer than ten minutes. I missed deadlines. I got lazy... and slow... put on weight... the magazine let me go. My husband checked out. Sex? Get out of here.
That was two years ago, and I haven't been the same since. I can't read any more -- I mean, the fucking New York Post?
After this, I'm going to have a migraine for three days. And I've got to pee. Which is another thing.
How many times had I thought of her, my first real love...
But that Melissa had unraveled in time and space -- she was a ghost now. I was never going to see her again, never bump into her in the street...
You have some left? Good. Go home and take it. Take the dose down, but don't just stop -- you'll die if you just stop. Try to taper off. Otherwise, the headache's just the beginning... I have to go--
But when I run out--
I don't know. I have to go--
Who invented MDT?
I don't know--  Goodbye, Eddie.
No one seemed to be watching my apartment, maybe I could chance it.
I was getting sicker by the moment. Luckily I had one pill on me...
You fucking forget about me? Huh?
I... I... ahh...
One o'clock? And you not here?! Eddie tries to catch his breath.
I'm here now!
I'll get you a check.
A check? A check?! You out of your fucking mind?! What you think we are, some financial institution?
Gennady, look-
I cut your balls off!
I wasn't thinking. Look, we just need to go to my bank- OOF!
What you got there?
NOTHING--
It's aspirin.
Don't look like no aspirin I ever see!
What is it? Something good, eh?
That's the whole thing, plus twenty.
I feel good. What in that shit?
Aspirin and vitamins.
You fucking full of shit, Morgan. I know you lie about the movie script too.
I had to get my stash.
Lindy...? I wouldn't have let him in, but I know you know him...
It's all right, Lisa.
Eddie-- What is it--?
I'm sorry -- I'm sick. I wasn't going to make it home-
Okay. Okay, I'll get you to a DOCTOR--
IT WON'T HELP--! I need to get-- it's very simple: I need my pills.
What kind of pills?
They're... for my headaches...
What headaches? What are you--?  Are you on some drug?
It's... complicated.
Oh. Oh. So all this energy of yours, all this focus... has been some drug, Eddie?
Not... the way you...
You need a doctor.
No. That won't--
Hello?
What the hell are you doing up there?
W-what?
Are you tearing up your floor or something?!
I knew what was going on.
...a smart drug...?
It was supposed to be legal.
Oh, Eddie... you jerk.
I have a supply... stashed...
 No.
I just need... to get it...
And I'm supposed to just GO?! In the middle of my work day?! To your APARTMENT to get you more DRUGS?
Not to my apartment. I moved it.
You did--? Why?!
I was smart. I was on MDT.
Then where did you keep it--?
Oh, you prick.
You asshole... in my fucking HOUSE?!
Hi -- Have you got it?
Yes. --Eddie, there's someone following me.
Are you sure?
He got into the cab behind me, and they're making every turn I'm making!
Don't get out.
What the fuck did you put me in the middle of--?!
Call the cops.
 There's traffic. We're slowing down...  Go around him! Go around!  Shit! We're stopped dead.  He's getting out, Eddie -- he's walking over here-
LINDY--!!!
Help! Help!!
There's... a... man... chasing me. He has a long, tan --
Are you still there?
Yes. What's happening?
I'm hiding, but I'm stuck. He'll find me!
Just be still, stop talking.
He killed a cop--
What?
He's going to kill me, Eddie!
Listen to me. Can he see you?
 You fucking asshole--
Can he see you?!
Not yet. --I don't know what to do! What do I do--!
There is something.
What?!
Listen to me. Reach into the bag and take one of the pills.
S-swallow one of those things?!
Yes.
You will know what do to, Lindy. Take one, and you'll know.
He's got a knife -- I can't think my way out of a knife--!
You'll come on in thirty seconds. And yes, you will think your way out, that's what it does. Are you taking it--?
 Yes. He's getting closer.
Lindy. I love you.  --Lindy? Are you there?
Eddie...? I feel it.
We'll stay here for a couple of days. We'll be powered up, we'll be able to think our way out of this...
I'm back. All right?
Who's back, Eddie?
I can take care of you now.
That was never what I wanted.
A lot's going to happen for us. And everything that I will have... I will share with you. I will love you.
You know... you were always smart. You could have done this. Not this... but some of these things... maybe a third of these things... without any smart drug at all. A third of all this... to most people...? ...would be plenty.
I understand that stuff now, Eddie. And I don't blame you for taking it. No one could ever tell you, till you take it, what it can do. Invincibility in a bottle. And I know I'm going to think about taking it again every day for the rest of my life.
But once you can see everything that way, mapped out like that, on a grid... and always be right...? Who'd want to wing it? Who'd want to fuck up? Who'd want to be human?
I just came up to say goodbye. I don't ever want to see you again. I'm not even going to stay in New York. Don't try to find me, and don't try to help me.
Looking for me?
You think you can run out on me? You think I don't know where you are?
I was under the impression that our business was settled.
Walk.
So now you're going to rob me? I thought you were a businessman.
I want some more of that shit.
What shit.
The pills.
Well, so do I. You took the last one.
So you get me more.
I can't get more -- the dealer's dead.
Oh. Well. Too bad for you. Because how you gonna go to those fancy meetings with your nose fed to my dog?
Nothing. I. Can. Do.
Make some calls. One hundred pills.
A hundred can't happen. The dealer's dead, I have to call three people to even get a line on--
You know I don't really do this. So clean, like this. What I do to you, I do in stages.
I might... be able to get ten.
Ten. Fuck your ten.
 Ten. And no guarantee there's more.
Oh, I think guarantee.
Self-pity and MDT were not compatible. One has to go on...
...Patch up what's left...
I won't deny you pissed me off, Eddie.
I was sick. I shouldn't have gone to the meeting. I tried to cancel, but Kevin imploded on me--
I didn't know who or what I was talking to.
A hundred and five, is what you were talking to, Carl. Delirium.
Look, there can't be any instability. Not when you're playing at this level.
I sent over my revised projections--
I didn't ask for your projections.
I know, but I think if you look at THEM-
I already have.
As a matter of fact, there were firings over your projections.
I'm sorry.
...some things my team missed. So, oddly enough, I find myself... needing to fill a position.
Two months after I started MDT, I was helping broker the most important merger in corporate history.
I found that if I maintained an even dose... remembered to eat... drank no alcohol... the blackouts didn't recur.
I was quickly back up to speed...
Is it possible to construct an... imperceptible compartment?
Certainly, sir. How large?
Quite large.
I would never again stash my MDT, not in an apartment, not in Fort Knox.
I don't want it known that I have any security. You won't precede me, you'll follow me, never less than ten steps behind... `inconspicuous' doesn't begin to describe you. You're not there. You're a CEO'S wife -- you're wallpaper.
Safer though my stash now was, I was not sitting around until it ran out.
Well, it's nothing you can cook up on a stove top. Whoever made it, it's a real pro act.
Can you make more?
Can I combine these ingredients in the same exact quantities? Yes. 
Meaning...?
Clinical trials. Guinea pig people.
That's too long.
It's what it is. Or you'll kill people. You need twelve, eighteen MONTHS--
Two million dollars if you do it in six.
It was all going to work out...
I thought we straightened this out, Detective.
This isn't about Vernon Gant, Mr. Morgan.
What is it about?
A witness identified the Donatella Alvarez suspect as this person. You want to tell me about your whereabouts on the night of June 12?
Luckily, I could now afford Morris Brandt, the best lawyer in New York.
Time was bought, and I was released -- for now.
You're lucky somebody wiped the room. Weak circumstantial at best. Just between us -- were you there?
I don't remember.
 Busy life.
Carl Van Loon and Hank Atwood remained unaware that soon, I would be in a witness lineup as a possible murderer.
...well, a unified front between Van Loon and Atwood would be lethally effective, and not a moment too soon.. SyCorps, Andine and others are jockeying for the same industrial concessions in Mexico that both our companies are secretly sniffing out...
How do you know this?
Well, the governmental bribe structure is, in itself, corrupt, so of course information about its inner workings, like anything, can be bought. And there are other barbarians waving cash at the gates. I have a list here, in descending order of threat...
Go on.
Eddie...? What's your read.
It flew. Of course, he's not going to tell you right now...
Jesus. He seems frail.
Might be an act.
Yeah, doesn't track. He's not even
So, Eddie. What are you going to do?
When this is over?  I don't know. You haven't given me the answer.
You haven't asked the question.
All right. If all this comes off... what's my take?
You should have pre-negotiated.
I trust you.
You shouldn't.
Well, given the scale of my contribution, it can't be anything lese than forty. Let's say forty- five.
Done. Forty five thousand dollars.
Forty million's plenty, Eddie. There's plenty more where this came from.
...But you're not going to continue working for me, are you?
Don't lie. You're already bored. Onto the next...?
I would really love to know what, after a forty million dollar payout, is "next" to you. But you're not going to tell me that, either.  And I'm not sure I want to know. Might singe my ego.
I'll open a line of credit for you. Even a tough nut like you's going to want a few toys.
... three restaurants, health club, of course, a private screening room, wine cellar, walk-in humidor... unparalleled, three-tier security system...
What is the asking price?
Twelve point five.
It was, as it turned out, a good moment to move.
No one knew, or would ever know, that I now carried the pills with me at all times.
Right away, it was obvious he was on MDT.
Next week...? I require twenty pills.
Next week? You can fuck yourself.  Not that you'll feel anything.
I don't think your Forbes 400 new financial friends would appreciate the details of your little dilemma with the police?
Thursday. You have them here.
Obviously, this could not go on. But there is very little on this earth that 45 million dollars can't solve. And tomorrow at nine, Atwood would sign the papers.
Well, you want to call it?
Cold feet.
There was all last night to tell us that.
No call?
Not yet.
Okay, the decision could have changed -- that makes sense -- but the discourtesy doesn't.  It's still on.
 Oh, based on your graphs and projections?
 I saw his eyes: it's on.
You know, remind me: who the fuck, exactly, are YOU?! --I'm sorry, Carl, I'm about at the end with this unqualified, posturing little-
Pull it back, Pierce.
Since when is this little pisher the fucking Delphi Oracle?!
PIERCE-
 Mr. Van Loon, Mrs. Atwood is here.
Pierce, you can stay.
I wanted this to be as confidential as possible.
My husband experienced some pain and dizziness this morning. He's at Lenox Hill, undergoing tests.
Obviously, it wouldn't be in our best interests for this to be reported by the press, as it might put some of his interests at risk. I just want you to know that we have every intention of signing the contract, and, as soon as he is able, we will proceed.
I realize that this is a useless platitude, but... if there's anything we can do...
Obviously we want to be as helpful and respectful as possible.
Thank you so much. I rely on your discretion.
 You think there's a proxy?
Cagey fuck like him giving away power of attorney?
Well. He'd better get better.
But Atwood wouldn't get better. Because Atwood was out of MDT.
Well. Why be surprised? How many other meteoric rises might be explained by MDT? At least I had some; my life wasn't in jeopardy. Only my money...
...and my liberty.
I've been all over them... we can't allow any disparity in race or physical type between you and the rest of the lineup -- they're as close to your clones as I could possibly get away with -- it's going to be one big handsome blur to this guy-
Mr. Morgan...? I need you to change your jacket.
Why?
Oh, that's me... I want everyone in the same shirt, better for the blur factor...
Of course.
Who was out there? The woman's husband? Was some bellboy I undertipped about to end my life?
Not the dimmest clue. He was dithering.
"Maybe the third from the right... No not him..." --Oh. Here you go.
 Thing of beauty. You had it made?
They'd kept me all day.
I'd missed my meeting with Gennady.
But I had more important business...
...And the Dow has been yo-yoing all day, amidst speculation that Van Loon Associates and Hank Atwood have negotiated a merger...
Have you been talking to anyone?
Not a word, Carl.
Where have you been, Eddie--? This is the second time you've turned to VAPOR--
Personal time, Carl. Phone off. You're not telling me there's been any movement.
No. Atwood's in a coma.
A coma?
It had gotten out, somehow. But I felt thick, stupid, tired. A small pain was starting behind my eyes. I'd been unable to take my MDT, and I was overdue.
Was it Brandt? Or someone else? The police station? A coat room? How? How?
In an hour I'd be useless. In two I'd be sick. In 24, dead.
Eddie--? This came for you.
What are you doing, Eddie--? EDDIE--!!!
I couldn't think.
Only MDT could help me. I had no MDT. And then...
One thought.  Was there anywhere...
... anywhere at all...I could have left one pill...?
I had to keep thinking. Somewhere safe...
It wasn't downstairs security, alerting me to a visitor. 
And so... here I am.
I knew they would kill me, slowly and horribly. But this choice would at least be mine.
But we're instinctive creatures. We want to live. 
It was possible. And possible was enough.
I told you I want more. You don't listen. Maybe you think I'm joking...
But I'm down to this last one.
See, I dissolve pill in solution. You shoot it - goes straight into blood and to brain. Works much better.
Now. Where do you keep yours?
I'm plum out.
They will find it. Or I will make you tell me. Which is quicker? We see, huh?
This is a waste of my time, you know that? I am getting out of this part of the business... starting import-export company. Very exciting stuff. A lot on my plate. I need to learn to delegate...
First, I will cut skin from you, flay you... you stay alive nice long time... then maybe we cut meat from you, steaks... or maybe softer parts... I get inspiration...
WHAT--
Not much of a triumph, was it?
Because I would die here, too.
Only MDT could help me, and the last of it was in this fuck's bloodstream...
Later, it would be noted that my neighbor was in the music business. One of his drug deals had obviously gone bad...  And the night was still young.
I'm sure you're curious about what's happened to your boss. I certainly am. If my attorney was really working for Mr. Atwood, to save his life, then why is he dead? At what point was the Pony Express supposed to ride in with the life- saving medication?  Or, did the Pony decide that he should be running his own Pony show? Minus the dog.
I would not go back. I would not be stopped.
...actually, no, there's no more tickets. --Yeah, I know, an overbooked fundraiser -- there's a first -- well, here he comes, I'll ask him -- Edward!!
I think we're looking at a second, overflow event-- there's a wave of donations coming in -- and I don't think they're even going to try a second debate -- don't go yet --
I have a lunch.
John Steadman's in there.
Who's that?
--Eiben-Chemcorps? Look, they're your biggest contributor, give him his two shitty little minutes.
Eiben-Chemcorps. What are they -- research?
Pharmaceuticals.
Mr. Morgan.
Nice to see you.
We appreciate everything you've done for us--
Well, you've done most of it for yourself. Senator Morgan.
I mean, everything from here's a technicality, isn't it, Eddie?
I think we both know where it's heading...  If... you can maintain.
Maintain?
Eventually you'll run out. I just want you to know we're here to help you.
What are you saying?
We've gotten most of the bugs out. It's longer lasting - you'll only have to take one a week.
Have you been watching me from the beginning?
No. Those of you who indulged... distinguished yourselves very quickly. You made yourselves clear to us.
Who's "us?"
You went the furthest with it the fastest, so of course, to us, you're the most interesting.
How did it get on the street?
Security breach. That was never our intention. We took care of it.
It will never again be on the street. It will never publicly exist. Obviously I don't need to detail the advantages for you.
And what about for you? Why don't you take it?
We don't have to. You'll take it for us.
And in return...? I do what.
Just keep on doing what you're doing. We won't bother you much at first.
And later...? What will you be "bothering" me with?
Well, given where you're heading, some of our ideas are... grandiose. But, I think, achievable.
And if I don't like your ideas?
Then we'll say Godspeed. And your candle will have shed a brief, but lovely, light.
But let's not even go there. Right now you should feel relieved, your problems are over. We just want to keep you healthy... and brilliant.
Luckily I can do that myself.
Well, no, ah, that won't be the case. We shut your lab down this morning.
My lab?
Which one?
All of them.
You sure?
We were right about you Eddie - you're gonna go all the way. Let's not do anything to jeopardize that. There's no downside here - we're offering you a limitless supply with fewer side effects. I think you'll be pleased with the arrangement.  Come on, let's get some lunch. I'm starving...
Tell me something.
Did I kill that woman?
Do you really want to know?
It's not so bad, is it?
Doesn't every man on the path to greatness have to tolerate the wind- drag of compromise?
Overall, we'll all be better off... foreign policy, the courts, even the Constitution could stand a little tweaking...
Eddie?
After you.
 No, "Senator". You first.
Please.
All right then...
Oh, now. Don't underestimate us.
Don't underestimate your own creation.
I mean, you invented it. What does it do? It puts me 50 steps ahead of you fucks. 
You don't know the caliber of enemies you'll be making.
You want to push that button? I'll show you my silos if you show me yours.
You'll run out. You'll die.
Or I'll think of something. Isn't that what MDT does? Makes you think of something? Might even tell me how to get off it.
What if I just ask the drug... how to tell the drug... how to fuck itself? I mean, isn't it like the 8-ball?
It always answers.
