So at Jenkins' Ferry, we decided warn't taking no reb prisoners. And we didn't leave a one of `em alive. The ones of us that didn't die that day, we joined up with the 116th U.S. Colored, sir. From Camp Nelson Kentucky.
What's your name, soldier?
Private Harold Green, sir.
I'm Corporal Ira Clark, sir. Fifth Massachusetts Cavalry. We're waiting over there.
We're leaving our horses behind, and shipping out with the 24th Infantry for the assault next week on Wilmington.
 How long've you been a soldier?
Two year, sir.
Second Kansas Colored Infantry, they fought bravely at Jenkins' Ferry.
 And making three dollars less each month than white soldiers.
Us 2nd Kansas boys, whenever we fight now we -
Another three dollars subtracted from our pay for our uniforms.
That was true, yessir, but that CHANGED -
Equal pay now. Still no commissioned Negro officers.
I am aware of it, Corporal Clark.
Yes, sir, that's good you're aware, sir. It's only that -
 You think the Wilmington attack is gonna be -
Now that white people have accustomed themselves to seeing Negro men with guns, fighting on their behalf, and now that they can tolerate Negro soldiers getting the same pay - in a few years perhaps they can abide the idea of Negro lieutenants and captains. In fifty years, maybe a Negro colonel. In a hundred years - the vote.
What'll you do after the war, Corporal Clark?
Work, sir. Perhaps you'll hire me.
Perhaps I will.
But you should know, sir, that I get sick at the smell of bootblack and I can't cut hair.
I've yet to find a man could cut mine so it'd make any difference.
You got springy hair for a white man.
Yes, I do. My last barber hanged himself. And the one before that. Left me his scissors in his will.
Could you hear what I said?
That's good, thank you for -
Thank you, that's -
 You fellas best find your company.
God bless you.
"That we here highly resolve that these dead shall not have died in VAIN -- "
" - That this nation, under God, shall have a new birth of freedom -- and that government of the people, by the people, for the people, shall not perish from the earth."
It's nighttime. The ship's moved by some terrible power, at a terrific speed.
Though it's imperceptible in the darkness, I have an intuition that we're headed towards a shore. No one else seems to be aboard the vessel. I'm alone.
I could be bounded in a nutshell and count myself a king of infinite space...were it not that I have bad dreams. I reckon it's the speed that's strange to me. I'm used to going a deliberate pace.
I should spare you. I shouldn't tell you my dreams.
I don't want to be spared if you aren't! And you spare me nothing.
Perhaps perhaps it's the assault on Wilmington port. You dream about the ship before a battle, usually.
 How's the coconut?
Beyond description.
Almost two years, nothing mends. Another casualty of the war. Who wants to listen to a useless woman grouse about her carriage accident?
I do.
Stuff! You tell me dreams, that's all, I'm your soothsayer, that's all I am anymore, I'm not to be trusted with - Even if it wasn't a carriage accident, even if it was an attempted assassination -
It was most probably an -
It was an assassin. Whose intended target was you.
How's the plans for the big shindy progressing?
I don't want to talk about parties! You don't care about parties.
Not much but they're a necessary -
I know...I know what it's about. The ship, it isn't Wilmington Port, it's not a military campaign! It's the amendment to abolish slavery! Why else would you force me to
You're going to try to get the amendment passed in the House of Representatives, before the term ends, before the Inauguration.
 Don't spend too much money on the flubdubs.
No one's loved as much as you, no one's ever been loved so much, by the people, you might do anything now. Don't, don't waste that power on an amendment bill that's sure of defeat.
Did you remember Robert's coming home for the reception?
I knew you'd forget.
That's the ship you're sailing on. The Thirteenth Amendment. You needn't tell me I'm right. I know I am.
It's late, Mrs. Keckley.
 She needs this for the grand reception.
It's slow work.
Good night.
 Did you tell her a dream?
 Papa...
Hmm?
Papa I wanna see Willie.
 Me too, Taddie. But we can't.
Why not?
Willie's gone. Three years now. He's gone.
The part assigned to me is to raise the flag, which, if there be no fault in the machinery, I will do, and when up, it will be for the people to keep it up.
That's my speech.
"We are coming, Father Abra'am, three hundred thousand more, From Mississippi's winding stream and from New England's shore..." We leave our plows and workshops, our wives and children dear, With hearts too full for utterance, With but a silent tear. We're coming Father Abra'am..."
Even if every Republican in the House votes yes - far from guaranteed, since when has our party unanimously supported anything? - but say all our fellow Republicans vote for it. We'd still be twenty votes short.
Only twenty.
Only twenty!
We can find twenty votes.
Twenty House Democrats who'll vote to abolish slavery! In my opinion -
To which I always listen.
Or pretend to.
With all three of my ears.
We'll win the war soon - It's inevitable, isn't it?
Ain't won yit.
You'll begin your second term with semi-divine stature. Imagine the possibilities peace will bring! Why tarnish your invaluable luster with a battle in the House? It's a rats' nest in there, the same gang of talentless hicks and hacks that rejected the amendment ten months back. We'll lose.
I like our chances now.
Consider the obstacles that we'd face. The aforementioned two-thirds majority needed to pass an amendment: we have a Republican
Fifty-six.
We need Democratic support. There's none to be had.
Since the House last voted on the amendment there's been an election. Sixty-four Democrats lost their House seats in November. That's sixty-four Democrats looking for work come March.
I know, but that's - They don't need to worry about re-election, they can vote however it suits `em.
But we can't, um, buy the vote for the amendment. It's Might as well let `em in. too important.
I said nothing of buying anything. We need twenty votes was all I said. Start of my second term, plenty of positions to fill.
Mr. President, may I present Mr. and Mrs. Jolly who've come from Missouri to -
From Jeff City, President.
Mr. Jolly. Ma'am. This by the fire's Secretary of State Seward.
Jeff City.
I heard tell once of a Jefferson City lawyer who had a parrot that'd wake him each morning crying out, "Today is the day the world shall end, as scripture has foretold." And one day the lawyer shot him for the sake of peace and quiet, I presume, thus fulfilling, for the bird at least, its prophecy!
 They's only one tollbooth in Jeff City, t' the southwest `n this man Heinz Sauermagen from Rolla been in illegal possession for near two yar, since your man General Schofield set him up there. But President Monroe give that tollgate to my granpap and Quincy Adams give my pap a letter saying it's our'n for keeps. Mrs. Jolly got the -  Show Mr. Lincoln the Quincy Adams letter.
That's unnecessary, Mrs. Jolly. Just tell me what you want from me.
Mr. Jolly's emphysema don't care for cigars.
Madame. Do you know about the proposed Thirteenth Amendment to the Constitution -
Yes sir, everybody knows of it. The President favors it.
Do you?
We do.
You know that it abolishes slavery?
Yes sir. I know it.
And is that why you favor it?
What I favor's ending the war. Once't we do away with slavery, the rebs'll quit fighting, since slavery's what they're fighting for. Mr. Lincoln, you always says so. With the amendment, slavery's ended and they'll give up. The war can finish then.
If the war finished first, before we end slavery, would -
President Lincoln says the war won't stop unless we finish slavery-
But if it did. The South is exhausted. If they run out of bullets and men, would you still
Jeff City? That's, uh, Congressman Burton?
"Beanpole" Burton, I mean, Josiah Burton, yes, sir!
 Republican. Undecided on the question of the amendment, I believe. Perhaps you could call on him and inform him of your enthusiasm.
Yeah...
Madam? If the rebels surrender next week, would you, at the end of this month, want Congressman Burton to vote for the Thirteenth Amendment?
If that was how it was, no more war and all, I reckon Mr. Jolly'd much prefer not to have Congress pass the amendment.
And why's that?
 Niggers.
If he don't have to let some Alabama coon come up to Missouri, steal his chickens, and his job, he'd much prefer that.
 The people! I begin to see why you're in such a great hurry to put it through.
 Would you let me study this letter, sir, about the tollbooth? Come back to me in the morning and we'll consider what the law says.
And be sure to visit "Beanpole" and tell him that you support passage of the Amendment. As a military necessity.
 Thank you.
Oh, Nicolay? When you have a moment.
If procuring votes with offers of employment is what you intend, I'll fetch a friend from Albany who can supply the skulking men gifted at this kind of shady work. Spare me the indignity of actually speaking to Democrats. Spare you the exposure and liability.
Pardon me, that's a distress signal, which I am bound by solemn oath to respond to.
Tom Pendel took away the glass camera plates of slaves Mr. Gardner sent over because Tom says mama says they're too distressing, but-
You had nightmares all night, mama's right to -
But I'll have worse nightmares if you don't let me look at the plates again!
Perhaps.
We can't afford a single defection from anyone in our party...not even a single Republican absent when they vote. You know who you've got to see.
Send over to Blair House. Ask Preston Blair can I call on him around five o'clock.
 God help you. God alone knows what he'll ask you to give him.
If the Blairs tell `em to, no Republican will balk at voting for the amendment.
No conservative Republican is what you mean -
All Republicans ought to be conservative, I founded this party - in my own goddamned home - to be a conservative antislavery party, not a hobbyhorse for goddamned radical abolitionists and -
 You need us to keep the conservative side of the party in the traces while you diddle the radicals and bundle up with Thaddeus Stevens's gang. You need our help.
Yes, sir, I do.
Well, what do we get?
You don't mind, boy, do you?
He spends his days with soldiers.
They taught me a song!
Did they? Soldiers know all manner of songs. How's your brother Bob?
He's at school now, but he's coming to visit in four days! For the shindy!
At school! Ain't that fine! Good he's not in the army!
Oh he wants to be, but mama said he CAN'T -
Dangerous life, soldiering.
Now your daddy knows that what I want, in return for all the help I give him, is to go down to Richmond like he said I could, soon as Savannah fell, and talk to Jefferson Davis. Give me terms I
Conservative members of your party want you to listen to overtures from Richmond. That above all.
They'll vote for this rash and dangerous amendment only if every other possibility is exhausted.
Our Republicans ain't abolitionists. We can't tell our people they can vote yes on abolishing slavery unless at the same time we can tell `em that you're seeking a negotiated peace.
Yes'm.
Let's fix this up...
Where's my hat?
 Thunder forth, God of War!
We'll commence our assault on Wilmington from the sea.  Why is this burnt? Was the boy playing with it?
It got took by a breeze several nights back.
This is an official War Department map!
And the entire cabinet's waiting to hear what it portends.
A bombardment. From the largest fleet the Navy has ever assembled.
 Old Neptune! Shake thy hoary locks!
Fifty-eight ships are underway, of every tonnage and firing range.
We'll keep up a steady barrage. Our first target is Fort Fisher. It defends Wilmington Port.
A steady barrage?
A hundred shells a minute.
Till they surrender.
Dear God.
Yes. Yes.
Wilmington's their last open seaport. Therefore...
Wilmington falls, Richmond falls after.
And the war... is done.
Then why, if I may ask are we not concentrating the nation's attention on Wilmington? Why, instead, are we reading in the HERALD - (he smacks a newspaper on THE TABLE) - that the anti-slavery amendment is being precipitated onto the House floor for debate - because your eagerness, in what seems an unwarranted intrusion of the Executive into Legislative prerogatives, is compelling it to it's... to what's likely to be its premature demise? You signed the Emancipation Proclamation, you've done all that can be expected -
The Emancipation Proclamation's merely a war measure. After the war the courts'll make a meal of it.
When Edward Bates was Attorney General, he felt confident in it enough to allow you to sign -
 Different lawyers, different opinions. It frees slaves as a military exigent, not in any other -
I don't recall Bates being any too certain about the legality of my Proclamation, just it wasn't downright criminal. Somewhere's in between. Back when I rode the legal circuit in Illinois I defended a woman from Metamora named Melissa Goings, 77 years old, they said she murdered her husband; he was 83. He was choking her; and, uh, she grabbed ahold of a stick of fire-
No one was keen to see her convicted, he was that kind of husband. I asked the prosecuting attorney if I might have a short conference with my client. And she and I went into a room in the courthouse, but I alone emerged. The window in the room was found to be wide open. It was believed the old lady may have climbed out of it. I told the bailiff right before I left her in the room she asked me where she could get a good drink of water, and I told her Tennessee. Mrs. Goings was seen no more in Metamora. Enough justice had been done; they even forgave the bondsman her bail.
I'm afraid I don't -
I decided that the Constitution gives me war powers, but no one knows just exactly what those powers are. Some say they don't exist. I don't know. I decided I needed them to exist to uphold my oath to protect the Constitution, which I decided meant that I could take the rebels' slaves from `em as property confiscated in war. That might recommend to suspicion that I agree with the rebs that their slaves are property in the first place. Of course I don't, never have, I'm glad to see any man free, and if calling a man property, or war contraband, does the trick... Why I caught at the opportunity. Now here's where it gets truly slippery. I use the law allowing for the seizure of property in a war knowing it applies only to the property of governments and
Two years ago I proclaimed these people emancipated - "then, thenceforward and forever free." But let's say the courts decide I had no authority to do it. They might well decide that. Say there's no amendment abolishing slavery. Say it's after the war, and I can no longer use my war powers to just ignore the courts' decisions, like I sometimes felt I had to do. Might those people I freed be ordered back into slavery? That's why I'd like to get the Thirteenth Amendment through the House, and on
As the preacher said, I could write shorter sermons but once I start I get too lazy to stop.
It seems to me, sir, you're describing precisely the sort of dictator the Democrats have been howling about.
Dictators aren't susceptible to law.
Neither is he! He just said as much! Ignoring the courts? Twisting meanings? What reins him in from, from...
Well, the people do that, I suppose. I signed the Emancipation Proclamation a year and half before my second election. I felt I was within my power to do it; however I also felt that I might be wrong about that; I knew the people would tell me. I gave `em a year and half to think about it. And they re- elected me.  And come February the first, I intend to sign the Thirteenth Amendment.
Well, Mr. Representative Ashley! Tell us the news from the Hill.
Well! Ah! News -
Why for instance is this thus, and what is the reason for this thusness?
I...
James, we want you to bring the anti-slavery amendment to the floor for debate -
I am, of course - But - Immediately?
And we're counting on robust radical support, so tell Mr. Stevens we expect him to put his back into it, it's not going to be easy, but we trust -
It's impossible. No, I am sorry, no, we can't organize anything immediately in the House. I have been canvassing the Democrats since the election, in case any of them softened after they got walloped. But they have stiffened if anything, Mr. Secretary. There aren't nearly enough votes -
We're whalers, Mr. Ashley!
Whalers? As in, um, whales?
We've been chasing this whale for a long time. We've finally placed a harpoon in the monster's back. It's in, James, it's in! We finish the deed now, we can't wait! Or with one flop of his tail he'll smash the boat and send us all to eternity!
On the 31st of this month. Of this year. Put the amendment up for a vote.
Whalers?
That's what he said.
The man's never been near a whale ship in his life!  Withdraw radical support, force him to abandon this scheme, whatever he's up to - He drags his feet about everything, Lincoln; why this urgency? We got it through the Senate without difficulty because
I imagine we'd rejoice to see that.
He's said he'd welcome the South back with all its slaves in chains.
Three years ago he said that! To calm the border states when we were-
I don't.
You said "we all know what he'll do." I don't know.
Trust? I'm sorry, I was under the misapprehension your chosen profession was politics. I've never trusted the President. I never
Nothing surprises you, Asa, therefore nothing about you is surprising. Perhaps that is why your constituents did not re-elect you to the coming term. (collecting his cane and STANDING:) It's late, I'm old, I'm going home.
Lincoln the inveterate dawdler, Lincoln the Southerner, Lincoln the capitulating compromiser, our adversary - and leader of the godforsaken Republican Party, our party - Abraham Lincoln has asked us to work with him to accomplish the death of slavery in America.  Retain, even in opposition, your capacity for astonishment.
The President is never to be mentioned. Nor I. You're paid for your discretion.
Hell, you can have that for nothin', what we need money for is bribes. It'd speed things up.
No. Nothing strictly illegal.
It's not illegal to bribe Congressmen. They starve otherwise.
I have explained to Mr. Bilbo and Mr. Latham that we're offering patronage jobs to the Dems who vote yes. Jobs and nothing more.
That's correct.
Congressmen come cheap! Few thousand bucks'll buy you all you need.
The President would be unhappy to hear you did that.
Well, will he be unhappy if we lose?
The money I managed to raise for this endeavor is only for your fees, food, and lodgings.
Uh huh. If that squirrel-infested attic you've quartered us in's any measure, you ain't raised much.
Shall we get to work?
The House recognizes Fernando Wood, the honorable representative from New York.
Estimable colleagues. Two bloody years ago this month, his Highness, King Abraham Africanus the First - our Great Usurping Caesar, violator of habeas corpus and freedom of the press, abuser of states' rights -
- and radical Republicanism's abolitionist fanaticism!
His Emancipation Proclamation has obliterated millions of dollars' worth of personal property rights -
RICHARD SCHELL Perhaps he'll jump.
We are once again asked - nay, commanded - to consider a proposed thirteenth amendment which, if passed, shall set at immediate liberty four million coloreds while manacling the limbs of the white race in America. If it is passed - but it shall not pass!
Looks like he ate a bad oyster.
A point of order, Mr. Speaker, if you please? When will Mr. Wood -
Mr. Speaker, I still have the floor and the gentleman from Pennsylvania is out of order!
- when will Mr. Wood conclude his interminable gabble? Some of us breathe oxygen, and we find the mephitic fumes of his oratory a lethal challenge to our pleural capacities.
We shall oppose this amendment, and any legislation that so affronts natural law, insulting to God as to man! Congress must never declare equal those whom God created unequal!
Slavery is the only insult to natural law, you fatuous nincompoop!
Order! Procedure! Mr. Speaker, Mr. Wood has the floor!  Instruct us, Oh Great Commoner, what is unnatural, in your opinion? Niggrahs casting ballots? Niggrah representatives? Is that natural, Stevens? Intermarriage?
What violates natural law? Slavery, and you, Pendleton, you insult God, you unnatural noise.
Mr. Colfax! Please, use your gavel! They are -  You are out of order!  Direct the sergeant of arms to suppress this!  We are in session!
Please don't encourage this! Don't encourage this!
You're back you're back you're back you're back you're -
 I am. Your goat got big.
Here, help me get one of these to my room. (a nervous glance at the door to Mary's bedroom SUITE:) Is she in there?
She's asleep, probably, they You need help, sir? I can... went to see Avonia Jones last night in a play about ROBERT Israelites. Daddy's meeting No, sir, I don't. No. with a famous scientist now and he's nervous because of PETITIONER how smart the man is and the Could you bring your pa this man is angry about, `cause letter I writ about my there's a new book that Sam insolvency proceedings? Beckwith says is about finches, and finches' beaks, ROBERT about how they change, it Let it go please, thank you. takes years and years and You deliver your own years but - goddamned petition, thank you...
Please, please.
He's here...  He's here, Mrs. Cuthbert! He's here!  Robbie... Oh Robbie! Robbie!
 Hi, mama. Hey. Hey...
 Oh!
You're only staying a few - but what's made everyone days. Why'd you pack all of really cross with the man, that? the man who wrote the finch book, is he says people are ROBERT cousins to monkeys, but he Well, I don't know how long was going to say - I'M -
 Go tell your father Robert's home!
Mr. Nicolay says daddy's secluded with Mr. Blair.
Tell him anyway.
You forget to eat, exactly like him.
 No...
You'll linger a few days extra, after the reception, before you go back to school.
Well, I don't know if I'm gonna go back to -
We'll fatten you up before you return to Boston.
All right, mama.
All right. (beaming at him, ADORINGLY:) Oh Robbie...
Jefferson Davis is sending three delegates: Stephens, Hunter and Campbell: Vice President of the Confederacy, their former Secretary of State, and their Assistant
I know this is unwelcome news for you. Now hear me: I went to Richmond to talk to traitors, to smile at and plead with traitors, because it'll be spring in two months, the roads'll be passable, the Spring slaughter commences. Four bloody Springs now! Think of my Frank, who you've taken to your heart, how you'll blame yourself if the war takes my son as it's taken multitudes of sons. Think of all the boys who'll die if you don't make peace. You must talk with these men!
I intend to, Preston. And in return, I must ask you -
Not now!
Oh. Bob. I'm sorry. Welcome home.
Thank you.
 Just give us a moment please, Robert. Thank you.
I will procure your votes for you, as I promised. You've always kept your word to me. Those Southern men are coming.  I beg you, in the name of Gentle CHRIST -
 I understand, Preston.
We have one abstention so far -
Jacob Graylor -
He'd like to be Federal Revenue Assessor for the Fifth District of Pennsylvania.
- so the total of representatives voting three weeks from today is reduced to 182, which means 122 yes votes to reach the requisite two- thirds of the House. Assuming all Republicans vote for the amendment...?
Then, despite our abstention, to reach a two-thirds majority we remain 20 yeses short.
For which we're seeking from among 64 lame duck Democrats. Fully 39 of these we deem unredeemable no votes.
The kind that hates niggers, hates God for making niggers.
The Good Lord on High would despair of their souls.
 Thank you for that pithy explanation, Mr. Bilbo.
We've abandoned these 39 to the Devil that possesses them.
The remaining lame ducks, on whom we've been working with a purpose -
Charles Hanson.
Giles Stuart.
Nelson Merrick.
Homer Benson.
And lastly...
Clay Hawkins. Of Ohio.
T-tax collector for the Western Reserve. Th-th-that pays handsomely.
Don't just reach for the highest branches. They sway in every breeze. Assistant Port Inspector of Marlston looks like the ticket to me.
Uh, boats, they, they make me sick.
So just stand on the dock. Let the Assistant Assistant Port Inspector's stomach go weak.
And lastly, Democratic yes vote number six. Hawkins from Ohio.
Six.
Well, thus far. Plus Graylor's abstention. From tiny acorns and so on.
What'd Hawkins get?
 Postmaster of the Millersburg Post Office.
He's selling himself cheap, ain't he?
He wanted tax collector of the Western Reserve - a first-term congressman who couldn't manage re- election, I felt it unseemly and they bargained him down to Postmaster.  Scatter `em over several rounds of appointments, so no one notices. And burn this ledger, please, after you're done.
 Time for my public opinion bath. Might as well let `em in.
Seven yeses with Mr. Ellis! Thirteen to go!
One last item, an absurdity, but - My associates report that among the Representatives a fantastical rumor's bruited about, which I immediately disavowed, that you'd allowed bleary old Preston Blair to sojourn to Richmond to invite Jeff Davis to send commissioners up to Washington with a peace plan.
I, of course, told them you would never...Not without consulting me, you wouldn't...Because why on earth would you?
 Much obliged.
Why wasn't I consulted?! I'm Secretary of State! You, you, you informally send a reactionary dottard, to - What will happen, do you imagine, when these peace commissioners arrive?
We'll hear `em out.
Oh, splendid! And next the Democrats will invite `em up to hearings on the Hill, and the newspapers - well, the newspapers - the newspapers will ask "why risk enraging the Confederacy over the issue of slavery when they're here to make peace?" We'll lose every Democrat we've got, more than likely conservative Republicans will join `em, and all our work, all our preparing the ground for the vote, laid waste, for naught.
The Blairs have promised support for the amendment if we listen to these people -
Oh, the Blairs promise, do they? You think they'll keep their promise once we have heard these delegates and refused them? Which we will have to do, since their proposal most certainly will be predicated on keeping their slaves!
What hope for any Democratic votes, Willum, if word gets out that I've refused a chance to end the war? You think word won't get out? In Washington?
It's either the amendment or this Confederate peace, you cannot have both.
"If you can look into the seeds of time, And say which grain will grow and which will not, Speak then to me..."
Oh, disaster. This is a disaster!
Time is a great thickener of things, Willum.
Yes, I suppose it is - Actually I have no idea what you mean by that.
Get me thirteen votes. (in a thick Kentucky ACCENT:) Them fellers from Richmond ain't here yit.
You drafted half the men in Boston! What do you think their families think about me?
The only reason they don't throw things and spit on me is `cause you're so popular. I can't concentrate on, on British mercantile law, I don't care about British mercantile law. I might not even want to be a lawyer -
It's a sturdy profession, and a useful one.
Yes, and I want to be useful, but now, not afterwards!
I ain't wearing them things, Mr. Slade, they never fit right.
The missus will have you wear `em. Don't think about leaving `em.
You're delaying, that's your favorite tactic.
 I've found that prophesying is one of life's less prophet-able occupations!
Why do some slaves cost more than others?
If they're still young and healthy, if the women can still conceive, they'll pay more -
Put `em back in the box. We'll return them to Mr. Gardner's studio day after next. Be careful with `em, now.  These things should've stayed on the calf.
 When you were a slave, Mr. Slade, did they beat you?
I was born a free man. Nobody beat me except I beat them right back.
Mr. Lincoln, could you come with me-
 Mrs. Keckley was a slave. Ask her if she was beaten.
Were you - Tad.
 I was beaten with a fire shovel when I was younger than you.  You should go to Mrs. Lincoln. She's in Willie's room.
She never goes in there.
The reception line is already stretching out the door.
I'll be the only man over fifteen and under sixty-five in this whole place not in uniform.
I'm under fifteen and I have a uniform.
My head hurts so.  I prayed for death the night Willie died. The headaches are how I know I didn't get my wish. How to endure the long afternoon and deep into the night.
I know.
Trying not to think about him. How will I manage?
Somehow you will.
 Somehow. Somehow. Somehow... Every party, every... And now, four years more in this terrible house reproaching us. He was a very sick little boy. We should've cancelled that reception, shouldn't we?
We didn't know how sick he was.
I knew, I knew, I saw that night he was dying.
Three years ago, the war was going so badly, and we had to put on a face.
But I saw Willie was dying. I saw HIM -
Molly. It's too hard. Too hard.
 She's just ten feet yonder. I'd like to keep my job.
Senator Sumner, it has been much too long.
"Oh, who can look on that celestial face and -"
And...?
 James Ashley, ma'am, we've met several times -
 Praise Heavens, praise Heavens, just when I had abandoned hope of amusement, it's the Chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee!
Mrs. Lincoln.
Madame President if you please!  Oh, don't convene another subcommittee to investigate me, sir! I'm teasing! Smile, Senator Wade.
 I believe I am smiling, Mrs. Lincoln.
I'll take your word for that, sir!
As long as your household accounts are in order, Madame, we'll have no need to investigate them.
You have always taken such a lively, even prosecutorial interest in my household accounts.
Your household accounts have always been so interesting.
Yes, thank you, it's true, the miracles I have wrought out of fertilizer bills and cutlery invoices. But I had to! Four years ago, when the President and I arrived, this was pure pigsty. Tobacco stains in the turkey carpets. Mushrooms, green as the moon, sprouting from ceilings! And a pauper's pittance allotted for improvements. As if your committee joined with all of Washington awaiting, in what you anticipated would be our comfort in squalor, further proof that my husband and I were prairie primitives, unsuited to the position to which an error of the people, a flaw in the democratic process, had elevated us.
The past is the past, it's a new year now and we are all getting along, or so they tell me. I gather we are working together! The White House and the other House? Hatching little plans together?
Mother?
What?
You're creating a bottleneck.
Oh!  Oh, I'm detaining you, and more important, the people behind you! How the people love my husband, they flock to see him, by their thousands on public days! They will never love you the way they love him. How difficult it must be for you to know that. And yet how important to remember it.
Since we have the floor next in the debate, I thought I'd suggest you might...temper your contributions so as not to frighten our conservative friends?
Ashley insists you're ensuring approval by dispensing patronage to otherwise undeserving Democrats.
I can't ensure a single damn thing if you scare the whole House with talk of land appropriations and revolutionary tribunals and punitive thisses and thats -
When the war ends, I intend to push for full equality, the Negro vote and much more. Congress shall mandate the seizure of every foot of rebel land and every dollar of their property. We'll use their confiscated wealth to establish hundreds of thousands of free Negro farmers, and at their side soldiers armed to occupy and transform the heritage of traitors. We'll build up a land down there of free men and free women and free children and freedom. The nation needs to know that we have such plans.
That's the untempered version of reconstruction. It's not... It's not exactly what I intend, but we shall oppose one another in the course of time. Now we're working together, and I'm asking you -
For patience, I expect.
When the people disagree, bringing them together requires going slow till they're ready to make up -
Ah, shit on the people and what they want and what they're ready for! I don't give a goddamn about the people and what they want! This is the face of someone who has fought long and hard for the good of the people without caring much for any of `em. And I look a lot worse without the wig. The people elected me! To represent them! To lead them! And I lead! You ought to try it!
I admire your zeal, Mr. Stevens, and I have tried to profit from the example of it. But if I'd listened to you, I'd've declared every slave free the minute the first shell struck Fort Sumter; then the border states would've gone over to the confederacy, the war would've been lost and the Union along with it, and instead of abolishing slavery, as we hope to do, in two weeks, we'd be watching helpless as infants as it spread from the American South into South America.
Oh, how you have longed to say that to me. You claim you trust them - but you know what the people are. You know that the inner compass that should direct the soul toward justice has ossified in white men and women, north and south, unto utter uselessness through tolerating the evil of slavery. White people cannot bear the thought of sharing this country's infinite abundance with Negroes.
A compass, I learnt when I was surveying, it'll - it'll point you True North from where you're standing, but it's got no advice
Robert's going to plead with us to let him enlist.
Make time to talk to Robbie. You only have time for Tad.
Tad's young.
So's Robert. Too young for the army.
Plenty of boys younger than Robert signing up...
Don't take Robbie. Don't let me lose my son.
Go away! We're occupied!
Secretary Stanton has sent over to tell you that as of half an hour ago, the shelling of Wilmington harbor has commenced.
They cannot possibly maintain under this kind of an assault. Terry's got ten thousand men surrounding the Goddamned fort! Why doesn't he answer my cables?
They've taken 17,000 shells since yesterday!
The commander is an old goat. I want to hear that Fort Fisher's ours and Wilmington MAJOR ECKERT has fallen! They said -
Send another damn cable!
The problem's their commander, Whiting. He engineered the fortress himself. The damned thing's his child; he'll defend it till his every last man is gone. He is not thinking rationally, he's -
 "Come on out, you old rat!"
That's what Ethan Allen called to the commander of Fort Ticonderoga in 1776. "Come on out, you old rat!" `Course there were only forty- odd redcoats at Ticonderoga. But, but there is one Ethan Allen story that I'm very partial to -
No! No, you're, you're going to tell a story! I don't believe that I can bear to listen to another one of your stories right now!
I need the B&O sideyard schedules for Alexandria! I asked for them this morning!
It was right after the Revolution, right after peace had been concluded, and Ethan Allen went to London to help our new country conduct its business with the king. The English sneered at how rough we are, and rude and simple-minded and on like that, everywhere he went, till one day he was invited to the townhouse of a great English lord. Dinner was served, beverages imbibed, time passed, as happens, and Mr. Allen found he needed the
Now, Mr. Allen discovered on entering the water closet that the only decoration therein was a portrait of George Washington. Ethan Allen done what he came to do and returned to the drawing room. His host and the others were disappointed when he didn't mention Washington's portrait. And finally His Lordship couldn't resist, and asked Mr. Allen had he noticed it, the picture of Washington. He had. Well, what did he think of its placement, did it seem appropriately located to Mr. Allen? Mr. Allen said it did. His host was astounded! Appropriate? George Washington's likeness in a water closet? Yes, said Mr. Allen, where it'll do good service: the whole world knows nothing'll make an Englishman shit quicker than the sight of George Washington.
I love that story.
Fort Fisher is ours. We've taken the port.
And Wilmington?
We've taken the fort, but the city of Wilmington has not surrendered.
How many casualties?
Heavy losses.
And more to come.
Sours the national mood. That might suffice to discourage him -
To what? To bring this down? Not in a fight like this. This is to the death.
It's gruesome!
 Are you despairing, or merely lazy? This fight is for The United States of America! Nothing "suffices". A rumor? Nothing! They're not lazy! They're busily buying votes! While we hope to be saved by "the national mood?!"
Before this blood is dry, when Stevens next takes the floor, taunt him - you excel at that - get him to proclaim what we all know he believes in his coal-colored heart: that this vote is meant to set the black race on high, to niggerate America.
George, please. Stay on course.
Bring Stevens to full froth. I can ensure that every newspaperman from Louisville to San Francisco will be here to witness it and print it.
The floor belongs to the mellifluent gentleman from Kentucky, Mr. George Yeaman.
I thank you, Speaker Colfax.
Although I'm disgusted by slavery I rise on this sad and solemn day to announce that I'm opposed to the amendment. We must consider what will become of colored folk if four million are in one instant set free.
Think how splendid if Mr. Yeaman switched.
 Too publicly against us. He can't change course now.
Not for some miserable little job anyways.
And, and! We will be forced to enfranchise the men of the colored race - it would be inhuman not to! Who among us is prepared to give Negroes the vote?
And, and! What shall follow upon that? Universal enfranchisement? Votes for women?
Bless my eyes, if it isn't the Post Master of Millersburg Ohio!
Mr. LeClerk felt honor-bound to inform us. Of your disgusting betrayal. Your prostitution.
Is that true, Postmaster Hawkins? Is your maidenly virtue for sale?
My neighbors hear that I voted yes for nigger freedom and no to peace, they will kill me.
A deal's a deal and you men know better than to piss your pants just cause there's talk about peace talks.
 I want to do right! But I got no courage!!!
Wait!! You wanted, what was it, tax man for the Western Reserve, hell you can have the whole state of Ohio if you -
Aw, crap.
Eleven votes?! Two days ago we had twelve!! What happened?
They are ruining us.
Among the few remaining representatives who seem remotely plausible there is a perceptible increase in resistance.
Resistance, hell! Thingamabob Hollister, Dem from Indiana? I approached him, the sumbitch near to murdered me!
Perhaps you push too hard.
I push nobody. Perhaps we need reinforcements. If Jeff Davis wants to cease hostilities, who do you think'll give a genuine solid shit to free slaves?
Get back to it, and good day, gentlemen.
We are at an impasse.
Tell Lincoln to deny the rumors. Publicly.
Tell us what you expect of us.
I expect you to do your work! And to have sufficient sense and taste not to presume to instruct the President. Or me.
Is there a Confederate offer or not?
I suggest you work some changes to your proposal before you give it to the President.
We're eager to be on our way to Washington.
Did Mr. Lincoln tell you to tell us this, General Grant?
It says..."securing peace for our two countries." And it goes on like that.
I don't know what you -
There's just one country. You and I, we're citizens of that country. I'm fighting to protect it from armed rebels. From you.
But Mr. Blair told us, he, he told President Davis we were -
A private citizen like Preston Blair can say what he pleases, since he has no authority over anything. If you want to discuss peace with President Lincoln, consider revisions.
If we're not to discuss a truce between warring nations, what in heaven's name can we discuss?
Terms of surrender.
"Office United States Military Telegraph, War Dept. For Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States. January 20, 1865. I will
"...from anyone in authority, "...from anyone in authority, Mr. Lincoln..." Mr. Lincoln..."
"...will have a bad influence. I will be sorry should it prove impossible for you to have an interview with them. I am awaiting your instructions. U.S. Grant, Lieutenant General Commanding Armies United States"
After four years of war and near 600,000 lives lost. He believes we can end this war now. My trust in him is marrow deep.
You could bring the delegates to Washington. In exchange for the South's immediate surrender, we could promise them the amendment's defeat. They'd agree, don't you think? We'd end the war. This week.
Or. If you could manage, without seeming to do it, to -
The peace delegation might encounter delays as they travel up the James River. Particularly with the fighting around Wilmington. Within ten days time, we might pass the Thirteenth Amendment.
Now, here's a sixteen year old boy. They're going to hang him...
 He was with the 15th Indiana Calvary near Beaufort, seems he lamed his horse to avoid battle. I don't think even Stanton would
Ummm... I don't know, sir, I don't know who you're, uh... What time is it?
It's three forty in the morning.
 Don't... let him pardon any more deserters...
Mr. Stanton thinks you pardon too many. He's generally apoplectic on the subject -
He oughtn't to have done that, crippled his horse, that was cruel, but you don't just hang a sixteen year old boy for that -
Ask the horse what he thinks.
- for cruelty. There'd be no sixteen year old boys left.  Grant wants me to bring the secesh delegates to Washington.
So... There are secesh delegates?
 He was afraid, that's all it was. I don't care to hang a boy for being frightened, either. What good would it do him?
War's nearly done. Ain't that so? What use one more corpse? Any more corpses?
Do you need company?
Times like this, I'm best alone.
"Lieutenant General Ulysses S. Grant, City Point. I have read your words with interest."
"I ask that, regardless of any action I take in the matter of the visit of the Richmond commissioners, you maintain among your troops military preparedness for battle, as you have done until now."
"Have Captain Saunders convey the commissioners to me here in Washington."  "A. Lincoln." And the date.
 Yes sir.
Shall I transmit, sir?
 You think we choose to be born?
I don't suppose so.
Are we fitted to the times we're born into?
I don't know about myself. You may be, sir. Fitted.
 What do you reckon?
I'm an engineer. I reckon there's machinery but no one's done the fitting.
You're an engineer, you must know Euclid's axioms and common notions.
I must've in school, but...
I never had much of schooling, but I read Euclid, in an old book I borrowed. Little enough ever found its way in here -  - but once learnt it stayed learnt.
That's a rule of mathematical reasoning. It's true because it works; has done and always will do. In his book, Euclid says this is "self-evident."  D'you see? There it is, even in that two-thousand year old book of mechanical law: it is a self- evident truth that things which are equal to the same thing are equal to each other. We begin with equality. That's the origin, isn't it? That balance, that's fairness, that's justice.
Read me the last sentence of my telegram.
"Have Captain Saunders convey the commissioners to me here in Washington."
A slight emendation, Sam, if you would.
"Have Captain Saunders convey the gentlemen aboard the River Queen as far as Hampton Roads, Virginia, and there wait until..."  "...further advice from me. Do not proceed to Washington."
The World, the Herald and the Times, New York, Chicago, the Journal of Commerce, even your hometown paper's here.
 Say you believe only in legal equality for all races, not racial equality, I beg you, sir. Compromise. Or you risk it all.
I've asked you a question, Mr. Stevens, and you must answer me. Do you or do you not hold that the precept that "all men are created equal" is meant literally?
Is that not the true purpose of the amendment? To promote your ultimate and ardent dream to elevate -
The true purpose of the amendment, Mr. Wood, you perfectly-named, brainless, obstructive object?
You have always insisted, Mr. Stevens, that Negroes are the same as white men are.
The true purpose of the amendment -
I don't hold with equality in all things only with equality before the law and nothing more.
 That's not so! You believe that Negroes are entirely equal to white men. You've said it a thousand TIMES -
 For shame! For shame! Stop prevaricating and answer Representative Wood!
 He's answered your questions! This amendment has naught to do with race equality!
 Who'd ever've guessed that old nightmare capable of such control? He might make a politician someday -
 I need to go.
Your frantic attempt to delude us now is unworthy of a representative. It is, in fact, unworthy of a white man!
 How can I hold that all men are created equal, when here before me -  - stands stinking the moral carcass of the gentleman from Ohio, proof that some men are inferior, endowed by their Maker with dim wits impermeable to reason with cold pallid slime in their veins instead of hot red blood! You are more reptile than man, George, so low and flat that the foot of man is incapable of crushing you!
HOW DARE YOU!
Yet even you, Pendleton, who should have been gibbetted for treason long before today, even worthless unworthy you ought to be treated equally before the law! And so again, sir, and again and again and
MR. SPEAKER, WILL YOU PERMIT THIS VILE BOORISH MAN TO SLANDER AND TO THREATEN ME AND -
I'm sorry you're nauseous, Asa, that must be unpleasant. I want the amendment to pass. So that the Constitution's first and only mention of slavery is its absolute prohibition. For this amendment, for which I have worked all of my life and for which
I'm not going in.
You said you wanted to help me.
This is - This is just a clumsy attempt at discouragement. I've been to army hospitals, I've seen surgeries, I went and visited the malaria barges with mama.
She told me she didn't take you inside.
I snuck in after - I've seen what it's like. This changes nothing.
At all rates, I'm happy to have your company.
Morning, Jim.
Hello, Mr. President.
Good to see you again.
Well, boys, first question: You getting enough to eat?
Hello, sir.
What's your name, soldier?
Robert.
Robert. Good to meet you, Robert.
Nice to meet you.
What's your name?
Kevin.
Tell me your names as I go past. I like to know who I'm talkin' to. Kevin.
Mr. President. John.
John. I've seen you before.
Mr. President...
What's the matter, Bob?
I have to do this! And I will do it and I don't need your permission to enlist.
That same speech has been made by how many sons to how many fathers since the war began? "I don't need your damn permission, you miserable old goat, I'm gonna enlist anyhow!" And what wouldn't those numberless fathers have given to be able to say to their sons - as I now say to mine - "I'm commander-in-chief, so in point of fact, without my permission, you ain't enlisting in nothing, nowhere, young man."
It's mama you're scared of, not me getting killed.
I have to do this! And I will! Or I will feel ashamed of myself for the rest of my life. Whether or not you fought is what's gonna matter. And not just to other people, but to myself. I won't be you, pa. I can't do that. But I don't want to be nothing.
We can't lose you.
He'll be fine, Molly. City Point's far from the front lines, from the fighting, he'll be an adjutant running messages for General Grant.
The war will take our son! A sniper, or a shrapnel shell! Or typhus, same as took Willie, it takes hundreds of boys a day! He'll die, uselessly, and how will I ever forgive you? Most men, their firstborn is their favorite, but you, you've always blamed Robert for being born, for trapping you in a marriage that's only ever given you grief and caused you regret!
That's not true -
And if the slaughter of Cold Harbor is on your hands same as Grant, God help us! We'll pay for the oceans of spilled blood you've sanctioned, the uncountable corpses we'll be made to pay with our son's dear BLOOD -
Just, just this once, Mrs. Lincoln, I demand of you to try and take the liberal and not the selfish point of view! You imagine Robert will forgive us if we continue to stifle his very natural ambition?!
 And if I refuse to take the high road, if I won't take up the rough old cross, will you threaten me again with the madhouse, as you did when I couldn't stop crying over Willie, when I showed you what heartbreak, real heartbreak looked like, and you hadn't the courage to countenance it, to help me -
That's right. When you I was in the room with refused so much as to comfort Willie, I was holding him in Tad - my arms as he died!
- the child who was not only How dare you! sick, dangerously sick, but beside himself with grief?
Oh but your grief, your How dare you throw that at grief, your inexhaustible me?! grief!
And his mother won't let him I couldn't let Tad in! I near her, `cause she's couldn't risk him seeing how screaming from morning to angry I was! night pacing the corridors, howling at shadows and furniture and ghosts! I ought to have done it, I ought have done for Tad's sake, for everybody's goddamned sake, I should have clapped you in the madhouse!
THEN DO IT! Do it! Don't you threaten me, you do it this time! Lock me away! You'll have to, I swear, if Robert is killed!
I couldn't tolerate you grieving so for Willie because I couldn't permit it in myself, though I wanted to, Mary. I wanted to crawl under the earth, into the vault with his coffin. I still do. Every day I do. Don't... talk to me about grief.  I must make my decisions, Bob must make his, you yours. And bear what we must, hold and carry what we must. What I carry within me - you must allow me to do it, alone as I must. And you alone, Mary, you alone may lighten this burden, or render it intolerable. As you choose.
You think I'm ignorant of what you're up to because you haven't discussed this scheme with me as you ought to have done. When have I ever been so easily bamboozled?  I believe you when you insist that amending the constitution and abolishing slavery will end this war. And since you are sending my son into the war, woe unto you if you fail to pass the amendment.
Seward doesn't want me leaving big muddy footprints all over town.
No one ever lived who knows better than you the proper placement of footfalls on treacherous paths. Seward can't do it. You must. Because if you fail to secure the necessary votes, woe unto you, sir. You will answer to me.
I know the vote is only four days away; I know you're concerned. Thank you for your concern over this, and I want you to know: They'll approve it. God will see to it.
I don't envy him his task. He may wish He'd chosen an instrument for His purpose more wieldy than the House of Representatives.
Then you'll see to it.
Are you afraid of what lies ahead? For your people? If we succeed?
White people don't want us here.
Many don't.
What about you?
I...I don't know you, Mrs. Keckley. Any of you. You're ...familiar to me, as all people are. Unaccommodated, poor, bare, forked creatures such as we all are. You have a right to expect what I expect, and likely our expectations are not incomprehensible to each other. I assume I'll get used to you. But what you are to the nation, what'll become of you once slavery's day is done, I don't know.
What my people are to be, I can't say. Negroes have been fighting and dying for freedom since the first of us was a slave. I never heard any ask what freedom will bring. Freedom's first. As for me: My son died, fighting for the Union, wearing the Union blue. For freedom he died. I'm his mother. That's what I am to the nation, Mr. Lincoln. What else must I be?
My whole hand's gonna be proud in about five seconds, let's see how proud you gonna be.
Oh, it is? What you got goin'?
Yeah?
Go away!  That watch fob, is that gold?
You keep your eyes off my fob!
Nines paired!
Oh my God damn!
Gentlemen. You have a visitor.
Well, I'll be fucked.
I wouldn't bet against it, Mr...?
W.N. Bilbo.
Mr. Bilbo. Gentlemen.
Sir...
Why are you here? No offense, but Mr. Seward's banished the very mention of your name, he won't even
The Secretary of State here tells me that, uh, you got eleven Democrats in the bag. That's encouraging.
Oh, you've got no cause to be encouraged. Sir. Uh...
Are we being...fired?
"We have heard the chimes of midnight, Master Shallow." I'm here to alert you boys that the great day of reckoning is nigh upon us.
The Democrats we've yet to bag, sir. The patronage jobs simply won't bag `em. They require more...convincing, Mr. President.
Mm-hmm. Do me a favor, willya?
Sure.
Snagged my eye in the paper this morning. Governor Curtin is set to declare a winner in the disputed Congressional election for the -
Pennsylvania 16th District.
What a joy to be comprehended. Hop on a train to Philadell, call on the Governor -
 Send Latham. Or Schell.
 No, he'll do fine, just polish yourself up first.
The incumbent is claiming he won it. Name of, uh...
Coffroth.
That's him.
Coffroth. He is a Democrat.
Pity poor Coffroth.
It opens!
You are Canfrey?
Coffroth, Mr. Stevens, Alexander Coffroth, I'm, I'm -
 Are we representatives of the same state?
Y-yes sir! We sit only three desks APART -
I haven't noticed you. I'm a Republican, and you, Coughdrop, are a Democrat?
Well, I... Um, that is to say... I -
The modern travesty of Thomas Jefferson's political organization to which you have attached yourself like a barnacle has the effrontery to call itself The Democratic Party. You are a Dem-o-crat. What's the matter with you? Are you wicked?
Well, I felt, um, formerly, I -
Never mind, Coffsnot. You were ignominiously trounced at the hustings in November's election by your worthy challenger, a REPUBLICAN -
No, sir, I was not, um, trounced! Uh, he wants to steal my seat! I didn't lose the election -
What difference does it make if you lost or not?! The governor of our state, is...? A Democrat?
No, he's a...  A, um, a Ruh...
Re.
Re.
 Pub.
Pub.
Li.
Li.
Can.
Can. Republican.
I know what he is. This is a rhetorical exercise. And Congress is controlled by what party? Yours?
Your party was beaten, your challenger's party now controls the House, and hence the House Committee on Elections, so you have been beaten. You shall shortly be sent home in disgrace. Unless.
I know what I must do, sir! I will immediately become a Republican and vote yes for -
NO! Coffroth will vote yes but Coffroth will remain a Democrat until after he does so.
Why wait to switch? I'm happy to SWITCH -
We want to show the amendment has bipartisan support, you idiot. Early in the next Congress, when I tell you to do so, you will switch parties. Now congratulations on your victory, and get out.
Now give me the names of whoever else you been hunting.
George Yeaman.
Yes. Yeaman.
Among others. But Yeaman: That'd count.
 Y-E-A-M-A-N
I got it.
Kentucky.
I can't vote for the amendment, Mr. Lincoln.
I saw a barge once, Mr. Yeaman, filled with colored men in chains, heading down the Mississippi to the New Orleans slave markets. It sickened me, `n more than that, it brought a shadow down, a pall around my eyes.  Slavery troubled me, as long as I can remember, in a way it never troubled my father, though he hated it. In his own fashion. He knew no smallholding dirt farmer could compete with slave plantations. He took us out from Kentucky to get away from `em. He wanted Indiana kept free. He wasn't a kind man, but there was a rough moral urge for fairness, for freedom in him. I learnt that from him, I suppose, if little else from him. We didn't care for one another, Mr. Yeaman.
 I... Well, I'm sorry to hear that -
Lovingkindness, that most ordinary thing, came to me from other sources. I'm grateful for that.
I hate it, too, sir, slavery, but - but we're entirely unready for emancipation. There's too many QUESTIONS -
 We're unready for peace too, ain't we? When it comes, it'll present us with conundrums and dangers greater than any we've faced during the war, bloody as it's been. We'll have to extemporize and experiment with what it is when it is.
I read your speech, George. Negroes and the vote, that's a puzzle.
No, no, but, but, but - But Negroes can't, um, vote, Mr. Lincoln. You're not suggesting that we enfranchise colored people.
I'm asking only that you disenthrall yourself from the slave powers. I'll let you know when there's an offer on my desk for surrender. There's none before us now. What's before us now, that's the vote on the Thirteenth Amendment. It's going to be so very close. You see what you can do.
I can't make sense of it, what he died for. Mr. Lincoln, I hate them all, I do, all black people. I am a prejudiced man.
I'd change that in you if I could, but that's not why I come. I might be wrong, Mr. Hutton, but I expect... Colored people will most likely be free, and when that's so, it's simple truth that your brother's bravery, and his death, helped make it so. Only you can decide whether that's sense enough for you, or not.
My deepest sympathies to your family.
 We've managed our members to a fare- thee-well, you've had no defections from the Republican right to trouble you, whereas as to what you promised - Where the hell are the commissioners?!
Oh God...  It's true! You, you...lied to me, Mr. Lincoln! You evaded my requests for a denial that, that there is a Confederate peace offer because, because there is one! We are absolutely guaranteed to lose the whole thing -
I can't listen to this anymore! I can't accomplish a goddamned thing of any human meaning or worth until we cure ourselves of slavery and end this pestilential war, and whether any of you or anyone else knows it, I know I need this! This amendment is that cure! We're stepped out upon the world's stage now, now, with the fate of human dignity in our hands! Blood's been spilt to afford us this moment!
Now now now! And you grousle and heckle and dodge about like pettifogging Tammany Hall hucksters! See what is before you! See the here and now! That's the hardest thing, the only thing that accounts! Abolishing slavery by constitutional provision settles the fate, for all coming time, not only of the millions now in bondage but of unborn millions to come. Two votes stand in its way, and these votes must be procured.
We need two yeses, three abstentions, or four yeses and one more abstention and the amendment will pass -
You got a night and a day and a night and several perfectly good hours! Now get the hell out of here and get `em!
Yes but how?
Buzzards' guts, man.
I am the President of the United States of America, clothed in immense power! You will procure me these votes.
Mr. Ashley, the floor is yours.
On the matter of the joint resolution before us, presenting a Thirteenth Amendment to our national Constitution, which was passed last year by the Senate, and which has been debated now by this estimable body for the past several weeks. Today we will vote...
By mutual agreement we shall hear brief final statements -
- beginning with the honorable George Pendleton of Ohio.
I've just received confirmation of what previously has been merely rumored! Affidavits from loyal citizens recently returned from
 Are there Confederate commissioners in the Capitol?
I don't... I have no idea where they are or if they've arrived or -
If they've arrived?!
I appeal to my fellow Democrats, to all Republican representatives who give a fig for peace! Postpone this vote until we have answers from the President himself!
Postpone the vote!
I have made a motion! Does anyone here care to second -
 Gentlemen. The conservative faction of border and western Republicans cannot approve this amendment, about which we harbor grave doubts, if a peace offer is being held hostage to its success. Joining with our Democratic colleagues, I second the motion to postpone.
Quick, man! Quick!
This is precisely what Mr. Wood wishes me to respond to?
Word for word? This is precisely the assurance that he demands of me?
Yes sir.
Give this to Mr. Ashley.
I feel, um, I have to say, Mr. Lincoln, that this - (annoyed, impatient, to BILBO:) Could you please just step outside?!
You gonna have a chat now, with with the whole of the House of Representatives waiting on that?
 Making false representation to Congress is, it's, um -
It's, it's -
Impeachable. I've made no false representation.
But there are - 
Give me the note, Johnnie.
 Please deliver that to Mr. Ashley.
From the President:
"So far as I know, there are no peace commissioners in the city nor are there likely to be."
"So far as I know-"?! That means nothing! Are there commissioners from the South or aren't there?!
The President has answered you, sir! Your peace offer is a fiction!
That is not a denial, it is a lawyer's dodge!
Mr. Haddam? Is your faction satisfied?
The conservative Republican faction's satisfied, and we thank Mr. Lincoln. I move to table Mr. Wood's motion.
Tabled!
Speaker Colfax, I order the main question.
A motion has been made to bring the bill for the Thirteenth Amendment to a vote. Do I hear a second?
So moved, so ordered. The Clerk will now -  Quiet please.
The clerk will now call the roll for voting.
Nay!
Nay!
Aye!
What?! Shameful!
I vote no!
Beanpole Burton is pleased to vote yea!
No.
Mr. Martinson has delegated me to say he is indisposed and he abstains.
Also indisposed, also abstaining.
No.
William Hutton, remembering at this moment his beloved brother, Fredrick, votes against the amendment.
Webster Allen votes no.
Webster Allen, Illinois, Democrat, votes...no.
Halberd Law, Indiana, Democrat, votes...no.
Archibald Moran...yes.
Ambrose Bailer...yes.
 I said aye, Mr. McPherson. AYE!!!
TRAITOR! TRAITOR!
Order!
Order in the chamber!
Mr. MacPherson, you may proceed.
Goddamn it, I'm voting yes.
 I don't care, shoot me dead! You shoot me dead I, I am voting yes!
No.  Oh to hell with it, shoot me dead too. Yes!
I mean, abstention. Abstention.
 I. Vote. Yes.
James Brooks...nay.
Nay.
Nay.
Yea.
Nay.
Yea.
Mr. Clerk, please call my name, I want to cast a vote.
I object! The Speaker doesn't vote!
The Speaker may vote if he so chooses.
It is highly unusual, sir -
This isn't usual, Mr. Pendleton, this is history.
 Aye, of course.
The final vote: eight absent or not voting, fifty six votes against, one hundred nineteen votes for. With a margin of two votes -
The bill, Mr. McPherson, may I...?
I'll return it in the morning. Creased, but unharmed.
A gift for you.
The greatest measure of the Nineteenth Century. Passed by corruption, aided and abetted by the purest man in America.
I wish you'd been present.
I wish I'd been.
It was a spectacle.
You can't bring your housekeeper to the House. I won't give them gossip.  This is enough. This is... It's more than enough for now.
Read it to me again, my love.
"PROPOSED -"
And adopted.
Adopted. "An Amendment to the Constitution of the United States. Section One: Neither slavery nor involuntary servitude, except as a punishment for crime whereof the party shall have been duly convicted, shall exist within the United States, or any place subject to their jurisdiction."
SECTION TWO:
"Congress shall have power to enforce this amendment by appropriate legislation."
Let me be blunt. Will the southern states resume their former position in the Union speedily enough to enable us to block ratification of the Thirteenth Amendment?
I'd like peace immediately.
Yes, and...?
I'd like your states restored to their practical relations to the Union immediately.
If this could be given me in writing, as Vice President of the Confederacy, I'd bring that document with celerity to Jefferson Davis.
Surrender and we can discuss reconstruction.
Surrender won't be thought of unless you've assured us, in writing, that we'll be readmitted in time to block this amendment.
This is the arrogant demand of a conqueror for a humiliating, ABJECT -
You'll not be conquered people, Mr. Hunter. You will be citizens, returned to the laws and the guarantees of rights of the Constitution.
Which now extinguishes slavery. And with it our economy. All our laws will be determined by a Congress of vengeful Yankees, all our rights'll be subject to a Supreme Court benched by Black Republican radicals. All our traditions will be obliterated. We won't know ourselves anymore.
 We ain't here to discuss reconstruction, we have no legal basis for that discussion. But I don't want to deal falsely. The Northern states'll ratify, most of `em. As I figure, it remains for two of the Southern states to do the same, even after all are readmitted. And I been working on that.
Tennessee and Louisiana.
Arkansas too, most likely. It'll be ratified. Slavery, sir, it's done.
If we submit ourselves to law, Alex, even submit to losing freedoms - the freedom to oppress, for instance - we may discover other freedoms previously unknown to us. Had you kept faith with democratic process, as frustrating as that can be -
How've you held your Union together? Through democracy? How many hundreds of thousands have died during your administration? Your Union, sir, is bonded in cannonfire and death.
It may be you're right. But say all we done is show the world that democracy isn't chaos, that there is a great invisible strength in a people's union? Say we've shown that a people can endure awful sacrifice and yet cohere? Mightn't that save at least the idea of democracy, to aspire to? Eventually, to become worthy of? At all rates, whatever may be proven by blood and sacrifice must've been proved by now. Shall we stop this bleeding?
Once he surrenders, send his boys back to their homes, their farms, their shops.
Yes sir, as we discussed.
Liberality all around. No punishment. I don't want that. And the leaders - Jeff and the rest of `em - if they escape, leave the country while my back's turned, that wouldn't upset me none.
By outward appearance, you're ten years older than you were a year ago.
Some weariness has bit at my bones.  I never seen the like of it before. What I seen today. Never seen the like of it before.
You always knew that, what this was going to be. Intimate, and ugly. You must've needed to see it close when you decided to come down here.
We've made it possible for one another to do terrible things.
And we've won the war. Now you have to lead us out of it.
You've an itch to travel?
I'd like that. To the West by rail.
 Overseas.
The Holy Land.
 Awfully pious for a man who takes his wife out buggy-riding on Good Friday.
Jerusalem. Where David and Solomon walked. I dream of walking in that ancient city.
All anyone will remember of me is I was crazy and I ruined your happiness.
Anyone thinks that doesn't understand, Molly.
When they look at you, at what it cost to live at the heart of this, they'll wonder at it. They'll wonder at you. They should. But they should also look at the wretched woman by your side, if they want to understand what this was truly like. For an ordinary person. For anyone other than you.
We must try to be happier. We must. Both of us. We've been so miserable for so long.
I did say some colored men, the intelligent, the educated, and veterans, I qualified it.
Mr. Stevens is furious, he wants to know why you qualified it -
No one heard the intelligent or the educated part. All they heard was the first time any president has ever made mention of Negro voting.
Still, I wish I'd mentioned it in a better speech.
Mr. Stevens also wants to know why you didn't make a better speech.
 Mrs. Lincoln's waiting in the carriage. She wants me to remind you of the hour, and that you'll have to pick up Miss Harris and Major Rathbone.
Am I in trouble?
No, sir.
Thank you, Mr. Slade.
I suppose it's time to go, though I would rather stay.
 The President has been shot.
The President has been shot at Ford's Theater!
It's 7:22 in the morning, Saturday the 15th of April. It's all over. The President is no more.
Now he belongs to the ages.
Fondly do we hope, fervently do we pray, that this mighty scourge of war may speedily pass away.
Yet, if God wills that it continue until all the wealth piled by the bondman's two hundred and fifty years of unrequited toil shall be sunk, and until every drop of blood drawn with the lash shall be paid by another drawn with the sword, as was said three thousand years ago, so still it must be said "the judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether."
With malice toward none, with charity for all, with firmness in the right as God gives us to see the right, let us strive on to finish the work we are in, to bind up the nation's wounds, to care for him who shall have borne the battle, and for his widow and his orphan, to do all which may achieve and cherish a just and a lasting peace among ourselves and with all nations.
