I hope I am not interrupting. Comfortable, Edward?
I haven't slept for forty-eight hours, got a dozen broken ribs, can feel a case of the flu coming on and . . .
 All right, all right, don't think I wouldn't like to get rid of you; but before I do, I need to know what's going on, son.
If you think you're in the dark, I am in a black hole, blindfolded.
See these goods, they never seen daylight, moonlight, Israelite, Fanny- by-the-gas-light. If you can't see value here today you're not up here shopping, you're up here shoplifting. Take a bag, take a bag. I took a bag, I took a bag home last night and she cost a lot more than ten pounds I can tell ya. Tell me if I am going too cheap. Not ninety, not eighty, not forty, half that and half that again, that's right, ten pounds. Don't think 'cos it's sealed up it's an empty box. The only man who sells empty boxes is the undertaker, and by the look of some of you here today I would make more money with me measuring tape.
Bargain, that's a bloody bargain if I ever heard one. Ten pounds you say? I'll have five.
Excuse me misses, sorry sir, ladies first and all that.
Bacon!
 Ed can run fast, talk fast, eat fast, and play cards fast, but he's fucking slow when it comes to spotting the roz.
 The reason he is called BACON is he spent so much of his youth in the police station that people thought he was one of them. But he is a big boy now and it is time to move on.
What are you talking about? I am bloody skinny, pal.
Of course you are. All right, Ed.
Nick the Greek, always a pleasure. All right Tom, what you been eating?
Please, both join me in my orifice.
 How much did you say it was, Tom?
You know how much it is, Nick.
And that does include the amp?
You know it doesn't include the amp.
What have you come as?
Cupid stupid! That's the last time I am getting any more fruit off you Tom. Call that fresh? There was more small hairy armoured things in your fruit than there was fruit. You should open a butcher's, not a grocer's.
If you will order stuff that comes from Kat-Man-Fucking-Du don't be surprised if your fruit picks up a few tourists en route. ~ Never mind that, what about the money?
Get your fingers out of my soup!
 Soap is called Soap because he likes to keep his hands clean of any unlawful behaviour. He is proud of his job, and even more proud that it's legal.
 He's a stroppy sod but he's got more balls than a golfer, only he doesn't know it. ' * Cut from completed film.
Are you sure you can afford twenty-five?
Well that depends on how you look at it. I can afford it as long as I see it again, if that's what you mean. You got the rest from the fat man and Bacon?
Who's this fat man, then?
Bacon, the fat man and myself, and it's time to make a call to Harry.
You got it all?
A hundred grand.
 You see it's not easy to take a seat at this table; the money involved has to be a hundred grand upwards and there is no shortage of punters.
 The man who decides if you can play is this man Harry, or Hatchet Harry as some including himself like to call him.
Well if you got it, you got it. Now, if you don't mind . . .
 When the old bastard is not playing cards he's chasing a thousand debts that ill-fated individuals owe for an array of reasons.
 Sex and sleaze and antique shotguns are all deep and dear in Harry's stone cold heart.
What's this EDDY like, then?
 Hatchet has a colleague, a monster of a man: Barry the Baptist.
 The Baptist got his name from drowning people for Hatchet.
 But he needs him, because he is good at making sure debts get settled and jobs get done.
EDDY been shaking the knees of a lot of good players. The boy has a rare ability, he seems to make cards transparent, got bluffing dow . .
 All right, all right, so we can say he is good.
Better than good, he is a fucking liability.
Where did he get a hundred grand?
And JD is his dad, and owns the whole property?
No mortgage, no debts; lock, stock, the sodding lot . . . don't worry, I got it under control.
Good, you can get this under control now.
Er, very nice Harry. What's it for?
Don't play innocent with me Bazza; spanking!
It's a dog eat dog world, lads, and I got bigger teeth than you.
 In the kitchen, under the floor . . .
 Shut it, you idiot . . .
You were saying?
It's in the karzi, pull the fishing wire under the seat. Jesus, for god's sake let me down.
Oh, Dog! . . . I think you want to have a look at this!
Twenty-five from me, Tom, Soap and yourself; a hundred grand to the pound. You don't need to count it.
I still will, if you don't mind.
 So, a reasonable return should be in the region of one hundred and twenty, for twenty-five grand invested. That's going on previous experiences.
That's going on optimism.
Whatever it's going on, it's still enough to send you on a cooking course.
You're not funny Tom; you're fat and look as though you should be funny, but you're not.
Fat? Who are you calling fat? What are all these fat jokes about?
Because it's cheap like a budgie.
And nobody wants to live next door to the people that we live next to; a bit anti-social, you know.
What do you mean?
He means they're thieving dogs.
I mean when they are not picking peanuts out of poop, they're ripping off unfortunate souls of their hard-earned drugs.
 No you prat, that's for me.
How many times do I have to explain this to you, Plank? You find a job worth doing and you will find your share improving . . . Now do you have a problem with that?
How long has he been in there, son?
About twenty minutes.
Is he on his own?
Just carrying a bag.
Let's have a look, shall we?
Son, have a look under that one.
It's not him, Dad.
Try that one.
Sleeping like a baby.
This is one of those high-powered numbers, isn't it?
What the fu-!
Mind your language in front of my boy.
Jesus Christ!
That includes blasphemy as well. Now tell me, John . . .
Tell you what, Chris?
I say, hold on.
I say shut it!
You what?
He said shut it!
Tell Harry . . .
Did I say speak? And it's Mr Harry to you . . . Now don't disappoint me and chose your words carefully. You may speak.
I'll have it for Mr Harry in a few days. I have been busy, and I am nearly there.
Son, have a look in his locker.
No chance of you lifting this sunbed up is there?
Yeah, all right.
He's not poor. Five hundred and sixty pounds and that's just in his wallet . . . Fuckin' 'ell John, you always walk around with that in your pocket?
Oi! Next time you use language like that, boy, you'll wish you hadn't!
Sorry, Dad.
Right, well, put the rest of the stuff in that, son. You can go home in a plastic bag tonight, John. You owe what you owe arid before this tan has faded, you want to have paid.
I am going to the john.
What you telling us for? The only thing I care about is whether you get your rest in.
Tom, you're all heart.
Listen cooky, you want to make sure that man rests before he plays; it's in all our interests.
 All right lads? How's things? How's it going, Soap? Cooking all right? Where's that son of mine?
Who the hell is that?
Give me a hand Charlie, I could break sweat at any second.
Charles, why have we got this cage?
Er, for security.
That's right, for security. So tell me, Charles, what's the point in having it if we don't fucking use it?
Well, because it's Willy and Willy lives here.
Yes Charlie, but you didn't know it was Willy, did you?
Chill, Winston, it's me and Charlie can see it's me, so what's the problem?
The problem is, Willy, that Charlie and yourself are not the quickest of cats in the alley at the best of times, so just do as I say and keep the fucking cage locked.
What are you carrying, Willy?
Er, fertilizer.
You went out six hours ago to buy a money counter and you come back carrying two bags of fertilizer. Alarm bells are ringing, Willy.
We need fertilizer, Winston.
We also need a fucking money counter, William! We have to get the money out by Thursday and I'll be buggered if I am counting it . . . and if you have to get your sodding fertilizer, couldn't you be a little more subtle?
What do you mean?
I mean we grow copious amounts of ganja, and you don't look like your average hort-er-fucking-culturalist, that's what I mean, Willy.
 What the hell are you doing here?
Why, what's up?
Er, let me guess, my foot in your arse? A game of cards and Hatchet Harry. You're supposed to be getting some rest, boy!
 Don't be silly Dad, I wouldn't have anything to do with that.
Shotguns? What, like guns that fire shot?
Oh, you must be the brains then. That's right, guns that fire shot . . . Make sure you bring everything from inside the gun cabinet. There will be a load of guns, that's all I want. I'll pay you when you deliver. Everything outside the cabinet you can keep; it's yours.
 Oh, thanks very much. And there had better be something there for us.
It's a fucking stately home, of course there'll be something there.
Like what?
Like antiques.
Antiques? What the fuck do we know about antiques? We rob post offices and steal cars, what the fuck do we know about antiques?
If it looks old, it's worth money, simple. So stop fucking moaning and rob the place.
So who's the Guv? Who we doing this for?
You're doing it for me is all you need to know. You only know that because you need to know.
I see, one of those `on a need to know' basis things, like a James Bond film, is it?
Careful, remember who's giving you this job.
 I hate these Southern shites.
 Fucking Northern monkeys.
Invitations.
Invitations?
Yeah invitations, you know a pretty white piece of paper with your name on it.
Well we have got about a hundred thousand pretty pieces of paper with the Queen on it. Will that do?
All right, just you; the others can wait in Samoan Jo's next door.
Samoan Jo's? Yon mean the pub? Hold on . . .
Hold on bollocks, no one but card players in here tonight sonny, and I do mean no one.
Evening Frazer, Phil, Don. This is a bit dramatic, isn't it? Is it supposed to be symbolic?
All right Ed. Apparently it's for security.
I would have brought my gloves if I had known.
You must be Eddy. JD's son.
Yup, you must be Harry? Sorry, I didn't know your father.
Never mind son, you just might meet him if you carry on like that.
I heard this place was rough.
What sort of a pub is this then?
A Samoan one. Anything else?
 What's that?
A cocktail, you asked for a cocktail.
No, I asked you to give me a refreshing drink. I wasn't expecting a fucking rainforest; you could fall in love with an orang-utan in that.
You want a pint, go to the pub.
I thought this was a pub.
It's a Samoan pub.
Well whatever it is, could you get your man to turn the TV down?
You ask him if you like, but I would leave him to it if I was you.
Excuse me, could you turn the TV down?
No.
This is the English-Brazil game, isn't it?
This is three card brag, gentlemen. That means that three threes is the highest, then three aces and then running down accordingly; then it's a running flush, a run, a flush, then a pair: An open man can't see a blind man, and it will cost you twice the anti to see your opponent. Don't fuck around, fellas; you all know the rules and you know I won't stand for it.
What sort of shirt is that then, Ed? 'Three hundred open.
The type of shirt that has buttons on the front and collars at the top, Frazer. One hundred and fifty blind.
Three hundred and fifty open.
Fold.
Three hundred and fifty open.
You're the only fella in London who wears shirts like that. Three hundred and fifty open.
No Frazer, it's just I'm the only classy fella you have had the pleasure of seeing in London. One hundred and seventy-five blind.
Four hundred open.
Four hundred open.
Eight hundred. Like that, do ya, son?
When my knees stop knocking I'll live with it. Four hundred blind.
Listen ladies, this is cards. Men play cards, you want to talk soft you should be at the fucking hairdressers, so shut up and play.  I fold.
Two thousand open.
One thousand blind.
Two thousand open.
Deep end, eh? Fold.
Two thousand blind.
You what?
Well, you going to play?
Fucking right I am going to play. Three thousand, there.
Four thousand to an open man, you know that.
Donald, do you know how to play this game? The reason I put in half the anti is because I don't know what I have got. Now play, or fold.
OK Gary, we call each other Kenny, all right?
All right, Kenny.
Can't you pull that stocking down further, Kenny?
It just cost me fifty quid to have this done.  If you think I am going to ruin it for a couple of old bastards you're mistaken, Kenny.
What are you doing, Kenny?
Finding out where he keeps the money.
Kenny, you twat, does it look like these people have got any money? They can't even afford new furniture. We've got the guns; now if you don't mind . . .
Ten grand blind.
Twenty thousand open.
Twenty thousand open.
I'll fold.
What?
I thought you said no staff, Bazza!
You get the guns?
You should see what they did to poor Gary.
Gary, get back into the van!
Good. I'll speak to you later.
Gary, Gary, if you can hear me, I think we better get you back in the van now, OK?
Twenty thousand open.
OK. My Doctor would beat me to a heart attack if he knew what was going on here. I fold.
Got some cards there, boy? Thirty thousand. Back to you already Eddy?
Fifty grand.
Eighty grand.
One hundred grand.
Hold on fellas, I know . . .
That is quite a raise, one hundred and fifty on my hundred.
Yes . . . and is there something else you want to say? EDDY
We will have to see both your cards if no one loans EDDY the money to continue. It's a loan or we see both your cards.
 I will.
You will what?
I will loan you the money.
I think I would rather just turn them over.
I am not interested in what you would rather; I want to keep going. I am also offering you the money, so we don't have to turn them over because you can borrow.
I need two hundred and fifty grand.
No, you need five hundred grand to see me.
That's if I want to see you.
Well, you're going to have a problem carrying on, aintcha.
You can still fold.
I'll see ya.
For half a million?
Unless you are going to accept twenty quid.
And still got a sense of humour. That's not monkey nuts son; you can still fold.  OK, before I loan you this, I expect, if you lose of course, my money back within a week, Crystal? That's Sunday, OK?
Is that it?
He was bluffing!
Let's see your fucking cards.
 I knew he was bluffing, but somehow the worst card player round the table had fucked me like a frozen virgin with a pair of sevens. A series of blows to my head with a baseball bat would have been greeted with a grin compared to this. Ten minutes earlier, I was two hundred thousand pounds richer; now I owed half a million.
I know your friends are responsible for most of that cash, so I'll give you all a week to find it. After that, I'll take a finger off each of you and your friend's hands for each day that passes without payment; and when you have all run out of digits, then who knows what?
This doesn't look good.
 I then explained the unfortunate position we were in. Harry was going to start sizing up all our fingers in a week, 'cause he knew there was no way I could raise that kind of money on my own. Harry saw it as their money on the table so it was also their debt off the table. I hate to admit it but I could have kissed the old bastard for that. If I said I wanted to settle this debt on my own it would have been a lie.
Listen, I wish he would let me settle it on my own.
I'll kill him!
 Stop fucking around, Tom, and think. What are we going to do?
What's all the fuss about Harry? Why don't we just boycott the payment?
 Let me tell you about Hatchet Harry. Once there was this geezer called Smithy Robinson who worked for Harry. It was rumoured that he was on the take. Harry invited Smithy round for an explanation. Smithy didn't do a very good job. Within a minute Harry lost his temper and reached for the nearest thing at hand, which happened to be a fifteen-inch black rubber cock. He then proceeded to batter poor Smithy to death with this; that was seen as a pleasant way to go . . . Hence, Hatchet Harry is a man you pay if you owe.
I'll think of something, don't worry.
Use that cage, that's what it's there for.
 Who is it?
 Plank, open up.
 What do you think?
BOO!
Fuck me!
Fod God's sake.
Clean that up, Charles.
Sod you, you clean it up.
Sorry fellas, but that stupid cow!
Never mind, could you please just sit down and stay out of the way.
Anyway, how much do you want?
 I am after a half weight.
That's one and a half thousand. Pass those scales, Willie, and sort out the gear, Charlie. Any chance of seeing your money?
The odds are one hundred to one so all we need is five grand.
I would rather put my money on a three-legged rocking horse. The odds are a hundred to one for a good reason, BACON . . . it won't win. So where is Ed with all the bright ideas?
At the bottom of a bottle and has been for two days; it's hit him hard.
It's hit us all hard!
Yeah, but he has got to tell his Dad he is about to lose his bar.
Listen to this one then; you open a company called the Arse Tickler's Faggot Fan Club. You take an advert in the back page of some gay mag, advertising the latest in arse-intruding dildos, sell it a bit with, er . . . I dunno, `does what no other dildo can do until now', latest and greatest in sexual technology. Guaranteed results or money back, all that bollocks. These dills cost twenty-five each; a snip for all the pleasure they are going to give the recipients. They send a cheque to the company name, nothing offensive, er, Bobbie's Bits or something, for twenty-five. You put these in the bank for two weeks and let them clear. Now this is the clever bit. Then you send back the cheques for twenty-five pounds from the real company name, Arse Tickler's Faggot Fan Club, saying sorry, we couldn't get the supply from America, they have sold out. Now you see how many of the people cash those cheques; not a single soul, because who wants his bank manager to know he tickles arses when he is not paying in cheques!
So how long do you have to wait 'till you see a return?
Probably no longer than four weeks.
A month? So, my friend, what fucking good is that, if we need it in six . . . no, five days?
Well, it's still a good idea.
Listen to this one . . .
So do you know these geezers well?
Well enough. I have been buying gear off one of them for a couple of years.
What they like then?
Poofs. Nothing heavy, four public school guys. Soft as shite.
And you keep all the money'
I have heard some fucking stupid ideas in my time but yours makes Bacon's sound inspired.
They ponce around in funny hippie clothes all day, talking bollocks. They're just good at growing weed, that's all, and business has got bigger than what they can keep up with.
If you're so fucking clever why don't you come up with a suggestion?
I am thinking, I am thinking.
 Listen, they can't be all stupid if they got a container load of cash sitting in shoe boxes, a skip-load of Class A gear and you don't think there is anybody sensible involved.
There's one steel gate as you go in but they never lock it.
What do you mean, never? Well what have they got it for, then?
I must have been there fifty times, it's never been locked; they're not suspicious. Everybody who goes there are toffs. They're all into that karma crap: `If I don't harm nobody, nobody harms me' stuff.
Is there no way they can get back to you?
Even if they could they'd be too shit scared. They have got no muscle; they're gutless faggots.
Should be here any minute. I think you're making a mistake, Harry. That's a lot of money for Chris to be running after. I wouldn't trust him to bring it back here.
 What do you know about Chris, eh? You put Big Chris on a job and he will make sure it gets done, no matter what's in his way. His dad used to collect debts and his dad before that, and that monster of a boy will after he has gone. It seems that the Almighty himself requested them to collect debts for eternity and not to fear knocking on old Nick's door himself, if he was behind on his payment. But he has never nicked a picker in his life. Straight as an arrow and as strong as the bow that fired it. If you dropped your tenner he would search till he found ya . . . the only problem is he isn't stable, has a temper like a runaway train, and he hits twice as hard. Heaven protect anyone who touches that boy, not that the boy needs protecting.
Hello son, would you like a lolly?
Like it? One of a pair, Holland and Holland. Here, you want to hold it?
and Soap are sitting in front of Ed who looks as though he is about to launch in to a speech.
What's the flapping about? You told the old man yet? EDDY
You guys, you've got to realise who this chap is. He's a fucking lunatic. If he gets the slightest inkling that we are not throwing straight dice, you - and fuck it, me - are going to know what the sharp side of a kebab knife feels like.
Hello.
 Winston?
Yeah.
It's Daisy.
I know who it is. What's the problem?
Well, what do you want us to do about it?
Hit the fuckers.
I don't know how you've reached that conclusion.
They can't report they have had all their drugs and money nicked, can they?
How heavy are the fellas anyway?
All right, but for Christ's sake we're in the soup and this is the silver spoon. If you can think of another way to get out, let me know. It's not like we've got all the time in the world either . . . Dig?
Well, we hit them as soon as they come back. We'll be waiting and prepared for them.
What was that, armed? What do you mean, armed? Armed with what?
Er, bad breath, colourful language and a feather duster! . . . What do you think they will be armed with? Guns, you tit!
Guns! You never said anything about guns. A minute ago this was the safest job in the world, now it's turning in to a bad day in Bosnia . .
Jesus, Soap, stop being such a mincer. I thought about that and...
And we will just have to find out who's going to be carrying them.
Carrying them. They could all be carrying them for what we know.
No, just one of them is in charge of them going to the job. So I assume he will still
Oh, you assume, do ya? What do they say about assumption being the brother of all fuck-ups?
It's the mother of fuck-ups, stupid!
Well, excuse me, brother, mother or any other sucker, doesn't make any difference, they are still fucking guns, and they still fire fucking bullets!
Not normal weed. This is some fucked-up skunk class A. I can't think let alone move shit.
Doesn't sound very good to me.
Neither me, but it depends on what flicks your switch, and the light's on and burning bright for the masses.
Listen, it's all completely chicken soup.
 Jews don't celebrate Christmas, Tom.
Never mind that now. I also need some artillery, you know, a couple of sawn-off shotguns.
Bloody hell, Tom! This is a bit heavy. This is London, not the Lebanon' Who do you think I am?
I think you're Nick the Greek.
Nick, I don't have anything to do with weed, normally, but if it is what he says it is, I'll give him three and a half thousand a key, that's if it is what he says it is. I don't want to see it after a sample, I don't want to touch it after a sample. I'll leave you in the capable hands of Nathan here. He will work out the details, but let me get this straight. If the milk turns out to be sour, I ain't the kind of pussy who will drink it. Know what I mean?
Is your hair supposed to look like that, then?
Next time we do a job like this we gonna want more money, or we are going back to post offices and cars.
Where're the others?
There are no others.
Now, stop fucking around. The others, the old ones?
I don't know what you mean.
 There were two old guns there; where are they?
Not in the cabinet there wasn't. There was a couple of old hammer-lock muskets the butler was carrying; they were ours, and we sold 'em!
Well you just better un-sell 'em, sharpish.
They were . . .
 I am not fucking interested.
Jesus, if I pick them up, will they stay in one piece? Where did you get them from?
I got contacts. Listen Tom, if you pointed them at me I'd shit myself or do whatever you said to do. Either way you still get the desired effect.
They look nice, I agree . . . but lacking in criminal credibility, aren't they? I might get laughed at. How much do you want for these muskets?
Seven hundred each.
What's that, a pound for every year they have been around? I know they're antiques, but I ain't paying antique prices. Pause.
Sawn-offs are out, Tom; people like to have a bit mare range nowadays.
Range? I don't want to blow the arse out of this country, granted, but I don't want anybody blowing a raspberry at me either. I want to look fucking mean.
Of course you will look mean, Tom, you will look really scary.
All right, let's forget about them for the time being. What about your weed man?
Rory Breaker is standing by. You stand to make a lot of money, Tommy boy.
I understand if this has come as a bit of a shock, but I'll tell you how this can be resolved by the good father.
Go on.
I like your bar.
Yes?
I want your bar.
And?
Do you want me to draw a picture?
Harry, that boy doesn't know his arsehole from his ear-hole, or you from a hoodwink. This bar is mine, and he has nothing to do with it.
What, and I care? Remember, you do have the luxurious advantage of being able to sustain your son's life.
And you do have a reputation, so I'll choose my words carefully. But not to put too fine a point on it, fuck yourself, Harry!
Oh, careful JD, you'll give Barry a heart-attack.
There's nothing to worry about, it's going to be easy.
There is no such thing as easy in my experience and, if you think this is going to be easy, you're a dick. It may be easier than most but it's not going to be easy.
What's that idiot doing next door?  We use your van. It's up some stairs this place, so we'll stick out like balls on a bulldog. Plank is going up first. There is a cage but it is never locked, is it Plank?
No.
And it better bloody not be. Once he is firmly in place, he gets the rest of us in. We'll get nasty with a couple of them, shit 'em up, scare and gag 'em. I can't see these wankers giving us a problem, but they might have a couple of tools hanging around like any cowboy. When the job is done we'll come straight back here. It's dark by then, unload and Robert's your father's brother. Everybody savvy?
Yup.
Right, tomorrow, eight o'clock we'll do it. Apparently these stags don't get out of bed till midday, lowest ebb and all that, and that's how I like it.
Jesus.
 So no messing around tonight. We leave eight a.m., OK?
Yes?
It's happening tomorrow morning. Get back here now.
 Where did you get those from, a museum?
Nick the Greek.
How much did you part with?
Seven hundred for the pair.
Drachmas, I hope. I would feel safer with a chicken drumstick. They could do more harm than good.
Jesus, Tom, do they work?
I dunno, but they look nice. I rather like ' em.
Top of the list of priorities, how nice they look.
Ladies, if you don't mind, back to a more important issue. We've only got two real guns . . . apparently that's what they are. We find a good place to hide next door. When it sounds like the right time, we jack in the box, look nasty and stuff, cocoon them in gaffer tape, then we nick their van and swap the gear into a new van and then bring it back here. As long as we are all out of our hiding places quickly, it's the last thing they'll expect. If Tom and anyone else feels like kicking them around a bit I am sure it won't do any harm. A bit of pain never hurt any one  if you know what I mean . . . Also, I think knives are a good idea, you know, big fuck-off shiny knives, the ones that look like they could skin a crocodile. Knives are good because they don't make any noise, and the less noise the more we're likely to use them. That'll shit 'em up and make us look like pros.
Is there something we should know about you, Soap?
I am not sure what's more worrying, the job or your past.
Where the fuck are they going? To butcher a sheep? I thought this was a robbery.
Where did they get those outfits from? Haven't we got some like that, Tom?
Well, not exactly like that.
You fucking jelly-heads, move it. You have been up for two hours, you should have got somewhere by now. The gear and the money has got to be out of here before twelve.
All right, it's Plank. Is Willie there?
Well, perhaps you can help?
Look, could you just open the door so I could talk without shouting?
I think you'll find it is in your interest.
I don't care if it's King fucking Kong, he is not coming in here, not today.
Hold on: we are in business and correct me if I am wrong, but that is business?
Willy, this is the last time, and don't let him know that you're here, otherwise he will be here all day, and get rid of him quick. We have work to do.
 What the fuck is going on?
Do you want me to have a look, Dog?
No, you silly fucker, stay still.  What's going on?
Come on, I can't wait out here all day.
I thought you were going to leave me out there all day.
 Lives and learns doesn't one.
I know.  Now shut it. You say a fucking word the right knee goes, another word then your left.
What do you think I am doing? Hold on. What are you doing? Unlock that gate. Oi! I said unlock that fucking gate.
Go! Go! Go! Fucking run, you two.
(mesmerized} The fucking gate's shut, you prick.
Just hold on, I got the keys.
 What the fuck did you do to Fauntleroy?
 I didn't touch him, he just passed out.
J, what's going on out there?  Get the rifle out, Charles. We're being fucked.
Get the sodding gate open now, Plank.
 It must be this one.
Just give me the keys.
It's a bren gun.
You could have brought something a bit more fucking practical, couldn't ya?
 Don't you stags move or I'll kill the lot of ya.
 Who are you going to kill Plank? There's no one there.
 They shot me!
 Well shoot them.
Jesus Plank, you could have got smokeless cartridges, I can't see a bloody thing.
I don't fucking believe this. Could everybody stop getting shot. Sit down John, you cock, patch yourself up; it's only a fucking air rifle.
That was the bren gun!
If you use that again, you're a dead man, do you understand?
He'll probably kill us if we do.
Well, J will certainly get it if we don't; he's serious. Look what he did to his toes.
 Right, his leg's going now.
All right, all fucking right, I am coming.  Willie, he doesn't know you are here, just sort something out, OK.
And all your friends, there's a good lad.
There is only three of us here.
Do you want me to take his leg off? Where's the fourth?
I mean it, there is only three of us here.
Plank?
 Yeah, one of them's out.
OK, open the gate.
There, in those shoe boxes.
 Where?
Out the back.
And the weed?
Out the back.
Point.
With what?
Your hands, now!
I can't, I am tied up.
Well, well, shake your head or something.
All right Plank, get Paul out of the van.
 Give us your knife.
How do you think I am doing? He has fucking nearly chopped my arm off.
Shut up, you idiot. You got the bags? Can you get it in?
There's a lot here, all right. I don't think we will be able to get this all in the van.
Bollocks, you'll get it in even if you have to do two trips.
You got a ticket already and, if you don't move it now, sir, we will move it for you.
I'll only be a minute.
You've already been fifteen.
Look. Go on, look.
At what, exactly?
My van is half full.
So?
So I've just got to put you in, and I am off.
My neck, Dog.  That's the last bag?
 How about you? All right?
I'll be fine when; have dealt with this little shit. Mick grabs the machete that was used to disable him and puts down the machine gun.
Do it quietly.
Eh, bunk us up over the wall.
Everything all right out there, Tom?
 Right as rain.
Where the hell are we supposed to hide?
What are you doing, Ed?
No I fucking don't! You can't make a cup of tea, Edward.
Why not? The whole of the British Empire was built on cups of tea.
And look what happened to that.
If you think I am going to war without one, you're mistaken, mate.
You won't get away with it.
Paul, what's that?
That's a traffic warden.
 What's he doing in the van?
He was about to call the cozzers.
We will deal with him later.
They're here.
Down, down, get fucking down now'
Tie 'em up, tape 'em up, face and mouth. Keys, I want the keys.
I'll find you.
Of course you will, sweetheart. This one, search this one. Ed finds the keys without any trouble.
I'll meet you in the van when you have finished with handsome there.
Well Jesus, that wasn't so bad, was it?
When the bottle in my arse has contracted I'll let you know.
Bacon, see what we got.
Let's have a butcher's. Jesus, there's lots of everything. We've got god knows how much of this stinking weed; we've got a shit load of cash; and we've got a . . . traffic warden.
A what?
A traffic warden. Look, what's this?
Shit Ed, we've got a traffic warden.
I think he's still alive. He's got claret coming out of him somewhere. What did they want with a traffic warden?
I dunno, but I don't think we need him. Dump him at the lights.
It's about time you give my young friends a visit, Chris. Tomorrow is the day and mum seems to be the word, and I can't have that now, can I, Chris?
No Harry, you can't.
Dead. Dead. I don't know who they think they could be, for me not to find 'em. Of course I'll find 'em. I don't give a flying fucking fish who they think they are. I'll kill - fur and feathers, burning wheel South African style, kebab 'em, peel 'em, slice 'em and dice ' em, hang draw and fucking quarter ' em.
That's it all done, we are off.
You think it's a good idea taking it back to yours?
There is nowhere else to keep it, and it's the last place they are going to look. Anyway the battle's over and the war is won.
It is skunk . . . and it's as good as it gets.
OK, I'll take it off you; half price.
I don't think he'll like that. You said three-five a key, that's what he wants and you know that's a good price.
It was yesterday I said three and a half grand and today is today, if I am not mistaken.
Hold on!
What?
something's not quite right here. Go in slowly, Nathan.
Fuck you funny man, you go first.
Shit!
For Christ's sake, get us out.
Well, not a bad day's work. That takes care of Harry.
What's left over?'
Hold on, give us half a chance to count it.
What about all the gear?
'Ere, have a pull of this.
I don't want that horrible shit. Give it to Soap. Can we just lock up and get drunk now, please?
We had the gates up but they stuck a shotgun through. Poor bloody J got shot; it was a right mess.
It will cost you more than your life's worth if you jest with me.
Some girl took one of 'em out, but he's a bit of a mess.
(proudly j We shot one of them in the throat.
What do you want, a fucking medal? I'll shoot you in the fucking throat if I don't get the gear back.
This is more like it. So where's he?
They took him with them; he was still alive.
Well, what did you shoot him with, an air gun?
We grow weed, we're not mercenaries.
 Who could it be? Where do we start, Rory?
Mr Breaker! Today my name is Mr Breaker. You think_this is a coincidence? Not many, Benny! This white shite steals my goods and then thinks it is a good idea to sell it back to me. They got less brains than you, Lenny . . . Get Nick cum-bubble round here now if he is stupid enough to still be on this planet.
I want you to search the house for bugs. I mean I want you to strip it.
What is the point in that? Even if it was a bug they would have taken it with 'em.
It is too late for you to start thinking John. It is a possibility and that is good enough for me. And after you strip the house, I want you to get every thieving slag this side of Ceylon and torture them, badly. I want to know who is responsible, otherwise I will hold you responsible.
Rory Breaker?
Yeah, I know Rory.
 Rory's got few interests in life; darky music, football, bees and honey and kicking the shit out of anyone that interferes with that shortlist. A few nights ago Rory's Roger iron rusted, so he has gone to the battle-cruiser to watch the end of a football game. Nobody is watching the custard so he has turned the channel over. A fat man's north opens and he wanders up and turns the Liza over. `Now fuck off and watch it somewhere else.' Rory knows claret is imminent, but he doesn't want to miss the end of the game; so, calm as a coma, he stands and picks up a fire extinguisher and he walks straight past the jam rolls who are ready for action, then he plonks it outside the entrance. He then orders an Aristotle of the most ping pong oddly in the nuclear sub and switches back to his footer. `That's fucking it,' says the man. Rory gobs out a mouthful of booze covering fatty; he flicks a flaming match into his bird's nest and the man lit up like a leaking gas pipe. Rory, unfazed, turned back to watch his game. The flaming man and his chinos ran outside to extinguish the flames, and Rory cheered on. His team won too, four-nil.
Your one saving grace might be your stupidity.
 Er.
Don't fucking er me, Greek boy! How is it that your so-fucking-stupid, soon-to-be-dead friends thought they might be able to steal my gear? And then sell it back to me? Is this a declaration of war? Is this some sort of white cunts' joke that black cunts don't get? 'Cos I am not fucking laughing, Nik-ol-as.
Er.
There are four interests I have, Nick. Football, music, money, and the annihilation of anybody who interferes with that shortlist . . . I know you couldn't have known my position because you're not so fucking stupid that if you did know, you would turn up here scratching your arse, with that `what's going on here' look slapped on your Chevy Chase. But what you do know is where these people live.
So we have a bit of a problem, don't we?
Er well, yes we do.
In fact it is a little more than a bit of a problem, isn't it? You could say that in the scale of these things this is the Mount fucking Everest of problems, couldn't you? . . . And the reason it is such a mon fucking-strosity of a problem is because you don't have the first fucking idea who did this to us, do you?
Dog, we have been up all night. It's no one round here! We have had them all against the wall.
If it was a toe rag from the area we would know.
You wouldn't know if it was the next-door fucking neighbours, you prick! You find 'em, you hear? And find 'em quick! Now get out and start looking! Out! Out!
Scarface, I have watched Scarface. You want to know how to do a drug deal, you watch Scarface!
That inspires confidence, that does.
This guy Rory Breaker can afford to do the deal at the price we are selling. It's not worth him giving us trouble; he knows we would be a pain in the arse, and who wants a pain in the arse?
I would take a pain in the arse for half a million.
You would take a pain ? the arse full stop.
Tom, the fatter you get, the sadder you get.
Jesus, would you two stop flirting for one minute . . . After we pay Hatchet, this deal puts us up near enough two hundred grand each. Not bad for a day's work, I think you will agree.
Yeah?
That's no way to answer the phone.
Is that you, Dean?
Sure is.
What can I do for you?
You know those shotguns I sold ya, well I need 'em back.
Not likely I am afraid; I don't think I'll be seeing them again.
I got the money to pay for 'em.
I am sure you do, but I don't think you understand; I am not going to see them or the guns again.
If we can't get 'em, we can't get 'em.
You fucking well have to get 'em!
We made a deal for everything inside the cabinet.
Inside, out-fuckin'-side. I don't give a shit, you get those guns because if you don't . . .
Yeah, Bazza, what?
You heard of Harry Lonsdale? Otherwise known as Back-you-up with-a- Hatchet Harry, infamous for his removal of digits?
Do you know who I am? I am split in two; there is me, and there is my patience, and patience has gone to the hospital; you are not far behind, know what I mean? I mean, find ' em, torture 'em, kill 'em, and bring back what belongs to me, because if you don't . . . you are . . . bang . . . in trouble.
Who was that?
That was Hatchet Horrible Harry.
Jesus, I have heard about him.
We're in the spite. They were his fucking guns that we sold; we gotta find 'em.
Dog, I have found the cash!
The stupid bastards! Count it!
Shit, Dog, there's a lot. Don't you want to do this next door?
We're not going next door until we've flayed these dead men walking. Count it out the back. I don't want them seeing you fingering that money as soon as they walk in.
But...  Give it us here, you dozy sod. You hide and get the guns ready. Wait until they are well in, then give it to 'em.
We are going to do a proper decoration job. I want the grey skies of London illuminated; I want that house painted red. Winston here is coming along, see if he can recognize any of 'em, then we bring what's mine back here. Watch out for these fellas; they've got a bit of arsenal and they don't mind using it. Now you know what you're doing, yes?
 What the fuck is going on here?
Got something here for me, have ya?  Come on, chop chop.
Follow that car, Gary; he's got the fucking guns.
This is one of them.
There's six black cocks sitting on the side of the road. How many beaks have they got between them?
Six.
How many wings have they got between them?
Twelve.
How many feet?
Er, well, twelve.
That's right. So how many whiskers has the little white kitten got?
How the fuck should I know?
How come you know so much about black cocks and so little about white pussy?]
What has been going on here?
The money, the gear!
That's fucked it. What do we do now? No money, no weed; it's all been swapped for a pile of corpses.
OK, don't panic; let's think about this.
Bollocks! You can think about it for as long as you like. I am panicking and I am off mate.
Hello, John. Nice holiday?
I won't be seeing you again Chris; I have paid him every last penny.
I am sure you have, no one was accusing you of being dishonest, John.
 That you, Chris?
How did you get your hands on these?
The boys had 'em. I know you like these things; wondered if you wanted them?
Er, yeah, sure, I'll have 'em.
Was it any trouble getting the money?
Well, not especially, but they seem to of upset a few characters.
Have you counted the money?
Yeah, it's all there, to the pound.
They were going to pay, then?
It looks like ?, but who knows? The opportunity was there. In my experience it is best to take the opportunity if it is there.
Good job, Chris.
We gotta get those guns.
This is dangerous shit, Dean; we don't even know who lives in there.
Listen, I don't care who lives in there; all as I know it's got to be preferable to death by Hatchet.
Furry muff, let's go.
I hope this is the right move.
It's either that, my old boy's place, and we lose a digit daily. I am going to call him.
As if he'll care.
He'll care all right. That was going to be his money. Whether he cares about us is different. Pass your phone.
Think about what you're going to say, Ed; we are on thin ice.
That you, boy?
 It's Ed, if that's what you mean.
It's pay day, ain't it?
 I wanted to talk to you about that.
I bet you did. I have got half a million nicker sitting in front of me, which means that some poor sod doesn't. You must have upset a few people, boy . . . but that isn't really my concern, is it? But what does concern me is the guns you had. I want to talk to you about that. Get your arse over here now, and I do mean now!
Well?
Well what?
 Well, what did he say?
He said he thinks we have paid him, and he wants to talk about those guns . . . now.
You what? What are you on about?
Listen, if he has the guns he might have the money . . . I think we should go and see him.
I think you're a sandwich short of a picnic, mate; you want to start making sense.
What are you doing here?
You and me, Tom.
What do you mean, me?
That's it, I am off.
Tom, this is our case.
. . . What?
This is our money, Tom! . . . Now I think we should go.
I'll meet you in the car. I am taking these guns.
Tom, don't mess around, let's go.
I'11 meet you in the car.
Tom?
I'll only be a minute.
A job well done son; we made a few quid out of that one.
Son?
Made a few quid, did ya? Now where is it?
You all right back there, mate?
Very fucking funny. Where's what I want?
It's in an office; I have just left it in the office. 137
Well, you had better go and get it from the office. That's if you want to see your son reach his next birthday. Now chop-fuckin'-chop.
All right, furry muff.
What are you doing?
Well, it's a five minute walk or a thirty second drive.
You had better be careful.
Well, what's going on?
I don't know, but what I do know is that there's no more Harry, which means there's no more debt, and if there's no more debt there's no more problem, and there's no more problem with our neighbours because they are all dead. I think, if I get this right, we haven't done anything wrong anyway, which means we are in the clear.
Never, never, not as long as I can remember has anybody been as rude to me as you have.
Don't think I wouldn't like to get rid of you; but before I do, I need to know what's going on, Edward.
If you think you're in the dark, I am in a black hole, blindfolded.
No, that's not one of them.
All right son, you're outta here! And you want to stay outta here.
The traffic warden went to the morgue and recognized Dog and his lot so that put us sort of in the clear. They got no case against us because there is no evidence against us.
Apart from those shotguns.
And Tom took care of them.
You did take care of the guns, didn't you, Tom?
I wanted to talk to you about that.
Well, talk.
Well not exactly, no; I got 'em sitting in the car, actually; I thought we might sell them back to the Greek, but I am having a bit of a problem getting hold of him.
The only item that connects us with the crime is sitting in your car which is sitting outside?
We paid seven hundred quid for those guns. They could hardly trace them to you, could they?
I don't think we will take the risk for seven hundred quid.
Tom, go and throw those guns off a bridge.
And, throw yourself off while you're at it. SOAP
Now, Tom!
The silly sod.
JD.
Chris.  You come to collect something, Chris? Should I have something for you?
Nope.
Can I help?
I think I can help you, as it happens.
Yes?
I have got something for ya. Well, for your boy, actually.
Well, I suggest you speak to him, then.
It seems that Hatchet under-estimated your lot and that seems to have cost him . . . I am not going to make the same mistake, am I? I have decided to bring your bag back.
Thank you.
Now you have presented me with a problem. I don't have an employer any more. So I have taken care of myself and my son, and if you think that is unfair you just come and pay me a little visit; but you better be waving the white flag high and clear, otherwise it will be the last little visit you lot ever make . . . That's all I had to say. It's been emotional.
That should take care of that lot. We are now officially in the money- loaning business, all right, son?
All right, Dad.
Well, put your seatbelt on then.
There's nothing in it!
What do you mean?
I mean it's fucking empty.
