'Wir eilen mit schwachen doch emsigen Schritten, O Jesu, O Meister...'
The latter on crutches, a cast on her leg. They stand center stage, their texts resting on music stands. Seated off to the side, are two male soloists (VINCENT GALLARDO & KENNETH DOWLER). Behind them a chorus of men and women, waiting, as:
Spruance, would you like to show me where it's marked smearing here...  ... because I swear, I don't see it.
Sorry.   I didn't know I was.
Also, I'd be mildly content if I could have a little less delirious self-appreciation and some small regard for remaining somewhere in the vicinity of the goddamned note.
Sssh, come on now.
No, I'm telling you, this is personally motivated. Since I moved out he's been doing this, making remarks and being... incredibly pricklike...                           * LEWIE Now, if our lovely soprano would like to stop grumbling for a moment, I'd like to take it once again. JOAN  See what I mean? LEWIE Pardon me? JOAN I said fine, let's do it again. LEWIE  From the beginning please.
He never says, 'Honey I love you, you're doing a great job.' I don't feel he respects me as a person and I'm just not that happy with the stature of our relationship. 
Now I want you to look at Harry and tell him how you feel.
See, look at him shaking his head.
Well, let's see what he wants to say here. Harry, how do you feel when she brings out this material?
How do I feel? I feel she just overheats on every little side issue, and when I go to try and communicate with the woman, for some unknown reason she doesn't believe a damn thing I say.
Oh that's a lie.
See what I mean? ADELE No, you know what this whole thing hinges from? He came to rent a building from me which is now his place of business... 
If you can't call me Adele, don't call me anything at all. 
Better yet, can you take her by the hand and say, 'I hear what you're saying'?
Good.  That's good... because there's a lot of love here, isn't there.  (stealing a quick look                     * at his watch) A poster outside the building announces a future engagement of THE LEWIS DUART MASTER CHORALE. (SEE Appendix) Joan comes out the door and moves down the steps to a campus walkway.
Next time I want to bring out some of our sexual hot spots.
The hell you are, honey. ADELE The hell I'm not.
HARRY ... at fifty bucks a shot, out a my pocket...  I'm going to listen to some pencil-necked butthead tell me I don't know how to relate to you... ADELE Daddy, do you want this marriage to work or not. HARRY I hear  you, honey. But let's have just a  little more trust on your end of  this thing, okay? That's all I ask.  Get in.
You sure nothing of value has been removed from the dwelling?
No, nothing. That's what's so disturbing. I mean, why would someone do something like this...?
Not much on the window. A few partials and a bunch of smears. MELVENOS Check out the bedroom. As he moves to the hallway leading to the bedroom:
You think this is someone I know? MELVENOS Let's explore that. Have you had any recent trouble with anyone? JOAN No.
For instance, just the other day we had a homicide concerning a dispute over a parking space. JOAN Who could it be?
You're not married, I take it. Her mind is still off searching for enemies and she fails to respond: HELEN She's in the process of a divorce. MELVENOS What about him? HELEN What about him? He's our conductor, he's an artist and not someone who'd ever... JOAN You mean Lewie? He'd never do anything like this.
 You never know.
ANDY Hello?   Anybody home?
Hi, Joanie...
Andy, this is not the most opportune time. I happen to have had a burglary in here last night... ANDY Oh really?   That's awful.
So could I just call you later? ANDY Well, can't you give   me one minute? I'd like to    know if you got the manuscript I   sent you.  Who's that? JOAN Helen Dextra, you've met her before. ANDY Oh, I have? (then quickly to Joan) Anyway, did you read it? JOAN Read what? I don't know what you're talking about. 
Oh no. You've written a book about Red Layls. ANDY Not just about him, Joanie, he's only one of many episodes in my life, you know that. Have you got a Perrier?
No, I don't. Let me just call you at home later. ANDY I'm not going to be home. I'm checking into a hospital to have a bone spur removed from my foot. Then I'm going to New York, to meet with a top publisher... (lowering her voice) ... which, incidentally, I would not care for Mr. Redmon, fecal- face Layls to know. Melvenos and the Fingerprinter re-enter:                            *
Wait, I need to talk to you...
I wanted to ask you, if there's somebody, who for some unknown reason, doesn't like me, what do you suggest I do?
Really though, I don't see how this could be somebody I know.
Maybe not.
JOAN Because I actually go miles out of my way to avoid conflictual situations.
Some help I'm going to get from him, because he's scared to death of Red.
Andy, are you telling me the truth?
I mean, are you really going to New York?
Yes, I'm going to New York, where I intend to remain in semi-private seclusion, at an undisclosed... JOAN Well maybe I could stay at your house while you're gone. So could you tell your housekeeper to... ANDY Wait, I just want you to hear what this colosal shit said about me, through his great white shark of a lawyer. JOAN Pardon me, but I don't care what he said. My apartment, as you can                     * see, is a complete shambles, I have                   * a terrible headache, I've been                        * informed that somebody doesn't like me, and I really don't want to stay here by myself!
Fine, why don't you take my house then?
Thank you.
Gee whiz, why make such a big deal out of everything? 
 Now don't start lazing around, June. Let's get with it. JUNE  You get with it. He sits down at his desk and begins going through his drawers, looking for something. She lowers the paper and looks over at him: JUNE Do you like my hair this way, or do you like it straight? HARRY It's very nice, Sluggo.   Go hose out the kennel. She goes back to reading.
Where the hell are my nail clippers? The PHONE on his desk begins to RING:
I told everybody to stay out of these drawers.
They need people, because that hole is getting... HARRY  Remember, don't say I'm here 'til you find out who it is. She picks up the receiver and speaks into it: JUNE Yeah?... I doubt that he's here at this present time... Yeah, maybe later today sometime... Who are you addressing? Uh, the executive kennel maid... uh-huh. Yeah. Okay, I'll tell him... So long.
Ferde at something Motors. He wants two payments by tomorrow or he's gonna come an' repop the van. HARRY Bastard.
You know, you said you were going to get me a little Honda Elite to tool around in.
Well, I'm not. HARRY That's not the point I'm making. Suddenly irritated, he begins fumbling through a pile                  * of bills on top of the desk:
You know   what's gonna happen if I can't pay   these damn breeders and get some   adult dogs on the premises?    Pretty damn quick, some asses are   going to hit the pavement,   believe me.
So?    I'm sick of dog turds anyway. He scowls at her, then looks out the window:
Jesus, here   I am, sitting in the center of a   lot of wealth, the escalation   in crime couldn't be better, and   I'm not turning a damn nickel   on it... He catches sight of something outside:                                 *
Oh shit.    There's Lee.
Socorro!! Wait a minute!   I want to talk to you! The Low-Rider comes to a stop. Joan approaches the pas- senger window and leans down to Socorro: JOAN Excuse me, Socorro, but do you mind if I ask what's happening, why are you leaving? SOCORRO No se, lo siento.
I'm asking, where-are-you-going?
 Esto me yerno, Balthazar. You speak please Balto para mi.
Monday? But this is Thursday, I can't stay here alone 'til Monday.
It's my understanding            Si, lunes, lunes. that Socorro lived here, otherwise, I would've made other plans.
Yeah, but she got her time off, too, man, you know. Joan straightens up, sighing angrily and looking up at the house:
Well, this is just glorious. The low-rider moves down the driveway and as it disap- pears onto the street, Joan moves to an electric box atop a metal column at the edge of the driveway. She presses the button and looks at the gates. They remain open. She steps over to the gates and tries to close them manually. The locking device fails to engage and a portion of it falls off into the bushes.
As she leans   down to look for the fallen part,   a pickup truck can be   seen parked down the street. The    back of the driver's head    can be seen and on   the side panel of the   truck are the words "Canyon Tree   Surgeons."
Joan flinches and sits up. She turns the TV OFF, which          * descends into a wooden console. At that moment, there           * is a VOICE from outside the bedroom window: BUTCH                                    * Hey, Andy!                                             *
BUTCH                            * It's Butch! Get your ass in gear                       * and say hello to your old drinking buddy! She calls loudly out to him: JOAN Andy's not here! He moves to the glass facade and peers inside, looking          * for the source of the voice:
Well, who are you, honey?
She's out of town, and there happens to be several other people in here trying to sleep, so...
Whyn't you come out and say hello?
Will you please go away!? BUTCH Come on, stick your head out the door an' let's see what you look like. 
Tch, where does she find these                         * people.                                                *
I was just trying to be nice. (moving backwards to the flower bed) Go ahead an' call 'em, bitch, I don't give a shit. He leans down, picks up a dirt clod from the flower bed and throws it toward the window: BUTCH I'll just come back and kick your ass in for you.
Here we have the dog's arsenal, so to speak. The animal is trained to apply pressure to specific points of the body until the bone is more or less crushed. (releasing the muzzle) If the attacker is bearing a weapon of any kind, be it a gun, a club, a knife or what-have-you, the dog will, excuse me for saying... ("politely" indicating his crotch) ... automatically go for the testicles. JOAN Oh god, what if I don't want him to do that? HARRY You want him to do that. JOAN No, I just want him to scare someone. HARRY Believe   me, this will scare them, as well   as incapacitate their mind and any   ability to maneuver against   you.
You know, I have an extremely sensitive reaction to dog dander, so maybe I shouldn't...
Let me ask you something. I like to get a general picture of the individual situation I'm working with. 
Are you married, single, living alone or with some other party?
I'm in the process of a divorce and I moved up here because my apartment was burglarized and... (suddenly mistrustful) But I'm not entirely alone, there's a housekeeper here, and several friends.
Well, the hills are hit heaven as far as burglaries go. And right up on Mulholland is where they found the fifth victim of the Westside Slasher...
No, please, don't tell me about that. HARRY Believe me, I know what you're up against, being an attractive, and I take it, unattached woman, such as you are... (flicking his cigarettte away) But we're going to remedy that situation right now, and get you to feeling as safe as a little baby, alright? (indicating her notebook) What've we got there so far? JOAN (reading her notes) Ober, platz, geh am platz, bringen, komm, sitz, fuss', fahrt and blieb.
Now let's do a little work with the assailant.
Alright now, Joan, give him the command, 'Duke, wachen sie.' JOAN Duke, wachen sie. HARRY Good.   The dog is now on alert.
This is really a nice piece of real estate you've got here. JOAN (tense and distracted) It's not mine, it's my sister's.
Oh, it's your sister's.  And where's she?
 Am I doing this right? Shouldn't I be prepared for something?
Never look at your dog.
Oh my God!                               Duke, fasse! Duke responds immediately, lunging toward June, pulling Joan along with him. June screams and starts to run away. Harry moves after Joan, yelling ahead to June: HARRY Dammit, June, don't exhibit fear until I tell you! Seeing the dog still in pursuit, June ignores the command and as Duke continues to tow Joan behind him: HARRY Get him under control now, Joan. JOAN I am... (struggling with Duke) Good boy, be nice.
Give him the off command!
I forgot it!     You tell him!   Duke, stop!
Duke, aus!
What did I tell you?
Ordinarily I wouldn't do this, even on a temporary rental basis, because he's the absolute top security and attack dog in the country.
Is this your sister? JOAN Yes, that's her, with her third husband, Eric Ellerman. HARRY Uhm hmm. (moving to another photograph) Wait a minute, who's this guy, isn't this Red Layls?
Yes.
No kidding. Your sister's involved with Red Layls? This guy's gotta be one of the five or ten richest men in the country, with business connections all over the place. 
Boy, look at that figure. I have to say, your sister is really an attractive looking woman.
Well, that's quite a compliment. I'll have to pass it on.
I'll skip back up in a day or two, okay, just to see how you're doing. JOAN Okay. HARRY And Joan, I want you to know, it's been a great pleasure doing business with you. JOAN Oh well... (her gaze flits shyly away) ... thank you.
Feel free to call on me for anything. Anytime of the night or day, 24 hours.
And would you also thank your... As she gestures toward June, Harry takes hold of her hand, looking earnestly at her: 
You big flirt.
Come on, dumpty, don't start that. (removing the jacket) This is quality clientele. It calls for a certain kind of approach. (nods toward the house) Just soak some of this in, will you? He steps past her and goes to the van: JUNE (giving him the finger) Soak this. As he opens the back panel: HARRY Start to pattern yourself. Breed up. (tossing the jacket inside the van) Observe the woman, for Christ sakes.
Oh screw her. He closes the back panel and as he moves past her:
You don't screw this type of individual.
You would. On his way to the driver's door:
grumbling as she moves to the passenger door:
Well I don't, he isn't even your dog.
How about a little smile. She quickly faces front and as the light changes, accelerates through the intersecion.
Conducting the soprano section of the "Et Resurrexit," accompanied by the pianist.
This is supposed to sound virginal, ladies, so let's try to fake it.
Eddy moves INTO VIEW and stepping over to Duke, leans down as though he intends to pet him:
Don't do that.
EDDY Don't do what?
You're not supposed to look him straight in the eye. EDDY You have a dog you can't look in the eye, Joan? JOAN He's not just a dog. He's a Schutzhund trained attack dog.
Oh... He steps back from the dog as Joan leans down to give Duke some water from the cup. JOAN I was told to avoid a direct gaze and always look at the base of the right or the left ear. EDDY You don't have to go to all this trouble, I've offered to stay up at your sister's with you?
I can't tell you how mad I am at Lewie, that I have to leave him out here, tied to a tree...
God, you're stubborn, Joan. 
But you won't tell me what's really bothering you. Why don't you confide in me anymore?
I do. EDDY No you don't. Come on, talk to me. Let's go have a drink after rehearsal. JOAN  Tonight? A WOMAN chorus member sticks her head out the stage door: WOMAN Eddy, you better come, he's rehearsing the tenors!
I'm coming...!  How about tomorrow night then?
I don't know.    Let's say maybe.
 Well don't go out of your way, Joan.
Eddy?   Tomorrow's fine.   Okay? Before disappearing into the studio, he makes a gesture acknowledging her capitulation.
I knew it.   I shouldn't have moved here.
Don't worry. The dog'll take care                      * of anyone trying to get inside.
I don't know what to do. Maybe I should move into a motel. HARRY No, you don't have to do that. This is just some ding-dong that's trying to scare you. JOAN Well he's succeeded. She sits down. HARRY But you don't want to give off that impression, by acting too timid or afraid, because that's what invites an aggressive attitude from certain types of men.                                                   *
I didn't invite this.                                  * HARRY For instance, don't go mincing                          * along, taking mousey little steps, and waving your hanky, because                          * you're drawing a target on yourself if you do...
Do I do that?                                           * 
I'm sorry, I can't do it with you watching me.
Okay, but keep in mind that you want to exhibit a very confident attitude. Look like you know what you're doing and where you're going. JOAN Uhm-hmm. HARRY Just remember to stop short of appearing a little dykey, because that's not attractive. JOAN But I thought that's your point, no to attract...
No, no, you always want to remain a little bit attractive. Otherwise that can set somone off too. JOAN This is just impossible.
You just can't win.
Sure you can, it's just a matter of degree.
Well darn it, I give up... Dropping her head into her hands. 
I'm sorry but this is really getting to me.
Tell you what. Let me take you out of here, buy you a drink, and               * see if we can't get your mind off these kind of things. JOAN That's very sweet of you, Harry. I'd like to do that.
And so you  like, well, assuming you live a  single existence, I                       * mean most  men don't seem to enjoy that, I've  read. She lifts her glass, takes a sip, then sets it back down: HARRY I have to  tell you the truth...  I've been  observing your hands, and I have to  use the word exquisite. JOAN Really?   Well... 
Yes, anytime. Do you like Classical music?
Very much. Even to the degree that when it's playing on the radio, I sometimes have to turn the damn thing off. Thinking he is revealing a peculiar brand of wit, she laughs. HARRY I just mean it starts to get to me too much. I can't swallow my saliva. JOAN I'm sorry.     I shouldn't have laughed.
Yeah, symphonies, operettas, poems, things like that. All those type of things really get to me. JOAN (looking intensely at him) Uhm hmm.
You're full of surprises, Harry, you know that? That you've actually read Dante's Divine Comedy I mean... HARRY Well, it was a while back there that I did, yeah... JOAN You know that part? 'Yet as a wheel moves smoothly, free from jars, My will and my desire were turned by love, The love that moves the sun and other stars.' He nods, while Joan, hoping to disguise the extent of her emotions, looks down and begins moving her wine in circles:
For some reason, the sublimity of that always touches me.
You know, it's very sad. I look at my sister and all her marriages and affairs, not to mention the mess my own life is in, and I think it's very sad and very bleak that men and women can't manage to be friends. HARRY It depends on the man and woman you're talking about. They arrive at the fence and as she speaks she rests one of her hands on the railings: JOAN What a tragedy that sex is often such a barrier to friendship between men and women. HARRY There I disagree with you.
You know Dante and Beatrice never slept together. HARRY Is that right?  Oh yeah, I forgot that part.
Well, anyway... I shouldn't have had so much wine... because I prefer to go a little slow here.
We can go as slow as you want... why not?
Oh yeah, absolutely.
Alright now, don't play too rough. The excitement has unleashed Duke's libido and as she tries to resume her mission, he makes a few attempts to rise against her flanks. Just before she approaches the mailbox, he manages to grip his paws around one of her thighs and unmistakably begins to hump her: JOAN No, no, Duke, don't do that, that's not nice. Now sitz. And behave yourself. He sits, panting, with a furtive expression on his face, watching as she steps over to the mailbox and opens it. She takes out a number of letters and sorts through them as she starts back to the house with Duke following. They are in the main addressed to Andy, but in amongst them she finds a bank statement addressed to her, as well as a letter with her name written in pencil on the envelope. She opens it, takes the contents out and stops suddenly:
'Lewie.   Mad at me.'
Doesn't want a divorce. Maybe he's trying to scare me, or punish me. Helen leans her head in close to Joan's:
It's definitely not Lewie. JOAN You're not exactly a disinterested party. You're always promoting his cause... HELEN Number one, I've known the man for fifteen years, number two, he... loves you.
An opinion I don't share, but... What do you think about Vincent?                        * 
HELEN He has a terrible temper. We know that.
'Vincent Gallardo.  Doubtful. We've never had an unpleasant word.' Aren't you  lucky. 'Kenneth Dowler...'                                    *
'Always trying to connect with me, proposing private rehearsals at his apartment.' You know what he asked me yesterday?
What my cup size was.                                  *  Steve Jewel! Who's Steve Jewel?
My piano tuner.
Is he weird or something? JOAN Well everyone appears weird to me                         * right now. So I put every                                 * possible name down, except for one, who happens to be post- burglary.
EMPTY_LINE
I already did. JOAN  Helen.
Darn it, Lewie.
 Why are you resisting?
These are very upsetting, really shitty circumstances I'm dealing with and I...
Do you know how hard all this has been on me? Do you think it's that easy for me to admit I want you back? JOAN Couldn't you spare yourself then? LEWIE Are you seeing anybody?   Just tell me that.
Come on, you're not the abstinent type. JOAN Please, don't judge me by your scrotal excesses, Lewie. LEWIE I know you're seeing somebody.
 Are you spying on me?
Come on. Be open about it. (kisses her on the neck, then) Who is it? 
I don't believe you.   Who is it?
What? JOAN Well... (hands him a cup) He keeps getting up and trying to ride on one's extremities.
Oh don't worry about that. 
No, that's just normal in most of your adult males. Some percentage of the time they're gonna attempt to make these vulgar motions on your person. He places his arm on the couch behind her:
You just have to be very firm and stay on top of him. In the sky beyond the hills a helicopter beams its light.
You know what's affecting me?
Night-piece, it means. HARRY You are.
Don't worry about it.
That's the problem though, I want to be honest with you... HARRY There's no problem. He leans over and kisses her.      After a moment she breaks off:
Because I recently realized something about myself. That I've slept with a number of men in my life just because I didn't want them not to like me. HARRY (not averse to being one of them) Uhm hmm.
But the thing is, I didn't like most of them that much, so why did I care whether they liked me or not? HARRY You know, I'm not one of these guys who's going to look upon you as an object. JOAN Oh, I know, that's not what I'm saying... HARRY Because I look upon a woman as a whole. JOAN What I'm saying is I don't know if right now I might not go to bed with you because I don't want to be alone, so I thought maybe we... could try to explore other modes, or... 
I mean, there are other ways of being intimate, that people don't even realize.
Uhm hmm.
Which doesn't mean I'm not attracted to you.
But you don't want me to bring you                      * around.                                                 * JOAN                                     * Pardon me?                                              * HARRY Other modes is fine. You don't have to be shy with me. (moving closer to her) I've been asked to do do every kind of thing in the book. He kisses her once more. Her response, is far less tentative. As it begins to border on the ardent, she breaks off again:
God, it's so hard to pioneer in this area... when you keep doing that...
 Please leave a message after the tone... Thank you.
Joan?  It's Andy... Are you there?  I want to inform you that these people are drugging me...
There's no phone in my room, or cable TV. I've had to sneak into this cell next to me, with some poor lithium zombie lying here like a comatose cabbage...
Maybe I better take this. She tries to move closer to the phone, hindered by Harry's weight. ANDY And this is the lengths this assassin is willing to go to suppress me, because he does not want me to have my book. JOAN Harry, excuse me, it's my sister. He moves off of her and she leans across his torso, pinning him to the bed as she addresses the speaker:
Andy... It's Joan.
Oh you're there. Thank God.
Where are you? Are you in New York? ANDY No, that's what I'm telling you. I went into the hospital first, for one day, just to have a simple bone spur...
And if he and that fuckface lawyer in his paid employ, think they can ... Wait.  I think I hear someone.
What am I supposed to do?
Find out where she is. JOAN Hello? Andy? You have to tell me where you are.
I told you, I don't know where I am, these bastards are very clever. She looks at the heavily-meshed wires covering the window:
I'm in some private cracker box in the boonies, with godammed wires on the windows...
Ask her the name of the first                           * hospital.                                               * JOAN Andy, tell me the name of the                           * hospital you checked yourself into. ANDY Mount Haven, it's  in the South Bay, and don't ask  me these inane                      * questions, just do  something...                        * HARRY Tell her we'll find it. JOAN We'll find it, okay, so don't worry...
I hear someone coming, I have to get off.
... because I'm sure there's some simple explanation...
What should I do? Should I call the police? HARRY No.
You mean right now?
I told her she shouldn't do this, I mean, to be so maniacally obsessed with this soul of mud that she'd even want to write a book about him, is beyond me... HARRY Well the guy must be doing something right to have amassed that amount of wealth. JOAN But she does this, you know, she just periodically drops the entire weight of her life on me like a ton of bricks.
Joan, can I make a suggestion? JOAN Yes, please, anything.
You better try an keep up a little with the flow or we're gonna get cited.
A.C. Ellerman, Antonia. She was admitted on the third of the month and was signed out at 3:45 P.M. on the fourth, by her personal physician...
How do you know he was her physician?
Hell, I could come in here and say I was a doctor an' sign somebody out. JOAN And even if he was a doctor, it doesn't mean he was my sister's doctor. A.C. According to this he was her doctor. JOAN Then who was the doctor who operated on her foot?
 There's nothing on here about her foot. It says 'observation for clinical depression.'
That's a lie. She was in here for an operation, then she was drugged and taken out of here against her will.
That couldn't possibly happen, we have very strict regulations about...
I can't believe this, you mean there's no phone number or address?
I'm sorry, but I didn't type this file... HARRY What kind of business are you running here, buddy? A.C. All I can do is give you the data I have on here. If you want to call the Physician's Registry... (gestures to a bank of pay phones) There's some public phones over there. He's probably listed with them. He turns away from them and back to the computer.
Nothing.   No Dr. Monroe Park.
How am I supposed to find this man? Maybe he used a false name, or maybe he isn't even a doctor...
I've got a couple of ideas here. First, we want to try an' connect with Red Layls.
No, I don't want anything to do with Red, I'm terrified of him.
There's nothing to be afraid of, believe me. JOAN I mean, you hear all kinds of things, about government kickbacks, and Panamanian drug couriers and... HARRY I know these type of guys. You take away their money and their power, and what are they. JOAN No, really, I have to do something. I have to go to the police... He stops walking and takes a hold of her hand:
Just hold off a bit on that, honey, will you?
Oh, that's nice.
What? JOAN You called me honey.
Well that's what you are. 
I want to get a hold of this top private investigator, who's a close, personal friend of mine, okay, and get him to find out who this doctor is. JOAN Harry, this isn't your problem and I don't want to draw you into it...                    * HARRY Don't worry, we're going to find your sister.  Everything's going to turn out fine.
Okay, go ahead, I've gotta hear this. Who is it this time? HARRY No, it's not what you think. This is a very unique individual I'm talking about. Plus there's a mind there, as well as a body and a face. VITA Didn't I hear this before, about                       * the hostess at Denny's, that was a college graduate and had a mole like Elizabeth Taylor? 
Anyway, you remember that private                      * detective that use to come in here all the time? On the portly side, bald, had kind of crossed eyes...
Oh.   Fred, you mean? HARRY Yeah, that's him. How do you think I could get a hold of him? VITA Oh gee, I think he's moved out of the area and went into gourmet                         * snacks.                                                *
HARRY What?!                                                 * June, mouthing "There's some guy over there wants to see you." Then she gestures to a Continental Town Car in the parking lot next to The House of Bliss.
HARRY You're talking to the wrong godammed party, you know that?
I think it's in your best interest to hear me out. HARRY No, you hear me out, friend... He takes note of the driver  coming around the front of the car. He stops a few feet off and unbuttons his jacket, revealing the cross-strap of a shoulder holster.
Look, I happen to have a very high regard for this party. And maybe I even have some feelings of a personal nature here.
Well I don't want to appear to be taking unfair advantage of you... 
But in developing certain information on you, it's come to our attention that your name isn't Harry Bliss. That in fact, your name is Eugene Earl Axline... HARRY Wait a minute.
And that both the I.R.S., and an impressive number of creditors in several Eastern cities... (looks up at Harry) ... seem to be somewhat interested in your whereabouts. Harry stands up, leaving the vulnerable area of his stomach framed in the passenger window. When he leans back down, a deeply conflicted expression is apparent on his face: HARRY You know, that's not necessarily entirely accurate, I mean, I don't know where you come up with these so-called facts, but... (at a loss, he looks off, shaking his head) I can't go sneaking around, stealing this lady's property.
I'd like to pose that the name and reputation of this very decent man, is not the property of Mrs. Ellerman, or her sister.                       * He takes a voucher from the folder and sets the file aside:
What do you mean, 'unpleasant'? MONCRIEF I mean that Mr. Layls is prepared to do whatever it takes to confiscate this document. And if you'd like to be of some assistance                   * to us, by finding it and turning                      * it over to me, he'd like to offer                     * you this very generous gift.                          * He holds the voucher out to Harry who avoids looking at it: HARRY Jesus Christ, I hardly know the woman. I'm just renting a dog to her, that's all. (looking at Moncrief) What kind of a person do you take me for? Harry stands in the parking lot, watching as the Con- tinental drives off. He starts to move toward The House of Bliss, then stops and opens the voucher, braving a look at it.
He watches sullenly as her car disappears through the gates, then lifts a can of beer to his mouth and drinks.
Oh, Socorro...
Could you come in here, por favor? As Socorro comes to the landing, Joan indicates one of the open desk drawers:
I-am-looking-for-my-sister's-book. Socorro steps closer and glancing into the the now disorderly contents of the drawer, shakes her head defensively: SOCORRO No.   No es mi. 
Oh come on, you're way off. JOAN And that he's been trying to scare and intimidate me in case I might have read something in her manuscript that he doesn't want anybody to know. And you know what he said? That I haven't given him probable cause to even go and question Red Layls, or his lawyer... HARRY Well, he's right, I could've told you that. This is a man who goes fishing with the President, honey. (grabs a pack of cigarettes) He's a little high up to go around burglarizing people and sending them nasty notes. So why don't you just ease back on this thing for awhile...  Life's too godammed short. JOAN I can't do that, Harry. This is my sister. I can at least make out a missing persons report on her, and then I want to talk to the private detective friend of yours. HARRY I'm trying to chase the guy down, okay? But don't go and make yourself sick... He begins pushing the paraphernalia around on his desk:
I mean, Jesus, why don't you just get this damn thing and hand it over to me and I'll give it to these guys. 
Yeah, to Red, or whoever...
Well if I ever find, it, that's the last thing I'd do with it. HARRY Dammit, you're making my work more difficult for me, you know that! JOAN What is this, have I come at the wrong time or something? HARRY I tell you what the hell to do and you don't listen to me! Joan looks down at the floor, attempting a drollery:
Well, someone abates your maidenhood and suddenly feels they can start ordering you around. HARRY I'm not ordering you around. I'm just giving you my opinion. And maybe I get tired of hearing about this stuff all the time, this book business, this manu-whatever, and Red Layls, and your sister.
Oh.  Well...  I'm sorry if I've overtaxed you with my problems, Harry, but I never asked you to consider them a part of your work.  So why don't we speak when you're in a better frame of mind. As she crosss to the door, Harry stands up:
Ah honey, now... 
again seated at his desk. He stares out the window, in the throes of a moral conflict. Then making some sudden resolve he opens a drawer, takes out an envelope and a paperback book and lays them on the desk.
Oh, Socorro, please-keep-the-dog ... el perro, in... in piso inferior, por favor... exercise room... Tiene allergy... 
 ... And now I'd like you to meet the director and the star of the smash hit movie, Blood And Kisses. So let's give them a nice warm welcome...
Before we begin, why don't we show the audience a clip from the movie. Do you want to set it up for us? DIRECTOR Well, it's a bit... this scene involves... just go ahead and run it.
HOST  I must say, this is a dazzling piece of work and you two are a dynamite wedding of talents...
'Any scars, marks or tattoos.'                          * DIRECTOR  Well it's absurd. In the first place, I didn't invent this genre. And it happens to be a tradition in this kind of film that women make more interesting and exciting victims than men do... HOST Well, I understand... She looks up from the document to the screen. Then both women look at each other with their mouths open:
And secondly the violence directed                      * at Mimi's character is an essential component of the story, and is not in any sense of the word, gratuitous.
But, Mimi, now what about you. That scene where you run nude through Times Square with those multiple knife wounds all over your body. That must've been horrendous for you.
Assholes.                 Yes it was, very horrendous...
 Come on, let me drive you home. 
... and that scene came directly after the gang rape in the elevator. Harry steps INTO VIEW, only half-listening and grumbling: HARRY What's her problem. ACTRESS Also, I love Dick's taste so I knew he was handling it very artistically... HARRY Now what's she complaining about?
Give me that.                      Well, you're just delightful in the movie and you're both great fun to have on the show. Thanks for coming.                  *  Iwo's got some shit she's          Don't go away, we'll be             * looking at...                      right back.                         * (Before you go, let's look          * at another clip from Blood         * And Kisses!)                       *
I mean, what's wrong with these women.
You want a know something?
They don't want to hear the truth, that's what disturbs me. 
I know one guy that says very complimentary things to me, like that I have nice features and a sense of humor.                                       * HARRY What guy?
Some guy I met, that likes me. He looks at her, then reaches over and places a hand affectionately on the nape of her neck: HARRY You're going to leave me, lard, just after I've broken you in, and taught you the fine art of dog training?
Maybe. (waits for a                                   * response, then)                               * As if you cared.                                      * HARRY (shakes his head and sighs) Women. (then back to the TV) What's the score?
Helen, quick, get in the car! Helen leans down and looks in at her:
What?
He lifts the ax over his head and swings it down vio- lently, cleaving the blade into the hood of the Mercedes. (From inside the house, DUKE can be heard BARKING furiously.) Joan leaps from the car and in stark terror, runs out of the garage toward the house. Stopped by the sounds of HELEN'S HYSTERIA, she turns around to see her, hampered by her crutches and unable to move. ON the hooded man's eyes, shifting their homicidal intent from Helen to Joan.
Helen!   Help me!
I can't!   I can't move!!
Why didn't you have the damn dog with you, that's what he's for!
I told you, he was in the house.
What the hell good is that! You have to have him with you at all times!
I can't have him with me         Didn't I tell you, right all the time, he's killing       from the start, it's my mucous membranes...           very dangerous to fool around with people like Red Layls! JOAN No you didn't, I said he was dangerous, and you said he wasn't...
Yeah, but that's before he tried to part your hair with an axe! JOAN I don't know if it was him.   Maybe it was this tree surgeon... She starts to move toward the bedroom and he stops her: HARRY Wait a minute. How tall was he? About six one? Kind of ugly? Helen, now with a drink in her hand, steps INTO VIEW behind Harry:
He was about your height.
No, he wasn't, he was much taller. HELEN Well let's not quibble, for god sakes. The  man is a complete maniac...  And excuse me for saying, but this isn't a job for an amateur... JOAN But wait, he couldn't be the same man who burglarized my apartment, because that's before I came up here... 
Guy like Red Layls have hit men working for them, that drive them around and do their dirty work for them.
Gee whiz, first it isn't Red, now it is Red. I can't keep up with these sudden reversals. HELEN Alright... I'm calling a cab. ON Helen, as she clumps away in the direction of the guest bedroom:
You know what I think?   It's more than one person. HARRY It's not more than one person. I'm telling you who the hell it is! JOAN But I don't think Red would have someone sing into my answering machine...
It doesn't seem like something he'd do.
Dammit, Joan!! She steps out of the closet and comes toward the bedroom,        * dressed in one of Andy's negligees.
God, what is this?! I can't say anything to you anymore, you're so darn touchy!
You can mention anything you want,                     * honey. I'm just trying to keep you from turning up face down, that's all. After a moment: HARRY                            * I mean, I can't leave you up here alone now...
It's Andy's --
It's very becoming on you.
-- Maybe I don't quite fill it out.
Yes you do.
Well?
What are you going to do now?   Are you going to leave?
Yeah, I'm going to skip down the hill, take care of a few things, pick up some clothes... JOAN Could you be back for dinner, around 7:00? HARRY Yeah.   Sure. JOAN Good. She waves to him     and pulls the rest of the way out of the garage, revealing     the ax handle still embedded in the front of the car,     its handle sharply angled up from the hood like a soup     ladle. 
Hi. SOCORRO Ella no esta aqui. HARRY I just want to look for my... (indicating his wrist) ... watch, I think I left it... (gesturing toward the living room) ... in there.
Ah si, es okay.
Thanks, Soco.
Harry! What the hell do you think you're doing?
I just got a phone call, honey, from a prominent entertainer up in Vegas, a very well-known singer...
Who is it, Paul Anka?
He's a rock star, you probably wouldn't know the name. Anyway, I gotta run a couple a dogs up to him...
You know, it's T-minus zero and counting, Harry, on this whole shitty deal. HARRY Now Iwo, don't blow this way out of proportion. You  think I want to do this. I need  the extra cash right now, believe me. ADELE If you leave, I'm getting Top Lock to come over and change the front and back doors!
Look, I'm only talking                (screaming at about a short period of                the dogs) time here.                         Ming! Tippy! Shut up!! ADELE I mean it! You get in that van, and I'm taking my building back and putting in a Fingernail Salon!
Come on now, honey, don't say things like that... He puts an arm around her, giving her a perfunctory hug:
Thank you.
You're welcome. HARRY Yeah it's great and it's something I really needed, so... He leans over and kisses her on the cheek, then picks up his fork and begins poking with disinterest at his food.
Is anything wrong? 
What? JOAN I was just thinking that I find this moody side of you very attractive. HARRY Oh, uh-huh. JOAN In fact, if you want to know, and I can see you're dying to... (reaches over and caresses his back) I completely adore you. HARRY Well, same here, honey.
Why are you all wet?
You know, there is something I feel I gotta say here, Joan, that's been preying on my mind. Something I maybe should've handled a bit differently with you from the start, about this particular situation I'm in... JOAN What situation? 
Senora, ven rapido. Mira           ... with a certain que estoy en las noticias          relationship, and I, de la televicion!                  more or less, am, but...
JUMP CUT TO:
Mira, alli estoy. REPORTER  ... Regarding an earlier press                        * release announcing Mrs. Ellerman's                    * intention to publish her book,                        * which purportedly contains                            * several explosive details concerning                  * Redmon Layls' controversial business dealings.
Mr. Layls' lawyer, Laurence                           * Moncrief, had this to say when asked if he was concerned about what might be revealed in the Ellerman book:
 Can you believe this?!
Recent reports of Layls' failing health were denied by his personal physician, Dr. Park. When questioned in a phone interview, he responded that the elusive billionaire...
... was recovering from quote, 'nothing more than the treatment of an ordinary virus.' Meanwhile... She points to the sign over the building's entrance:
Do you see that?
What?                            ... this seems to be another intriguing JOAN                     episode in the stormy Monroe Park! That's the          career of Andy Ellerman, name of the man who checked      one-time Washington Andy out of the hospital!        playgirl and erstwhile companion to one of the HARRY                    country's wealthiest I'm not sure that was the        men... This is Heidi guy's name.                      Robles reporting to you from Monroe Park Center in San Dimas...
What did she say? San Dimas?  Where's San Dimas?
JOAN Let's call the T.V. station and find out. HARRY This is not the way you want to go about this, honey. As she moves OUT OF VIEW into the living room, he turns           * to Socorro:                                                       * HARRY Tell her, Soco. She shouldn't mess with these people.
Will you just once take the benefit of my advice? 
And now when I suddenly feel like I could save the Pope in an earthquake, you start trying to... HARRY This is not the Pope we're talking about here, believe me.
That's just a figure of speech. They disappear out the front door.
Dammit, Joan, these people are holding all the cards. They'll probably throw you into that bughouse with your sister.
You want to go there and call 'em a bunch of names, throw a lot of accusations at them? They don't care. People with that kind of money behind them, with their kind of connections, they never go to jail, you never see them behind bars.
HARRY Am I getting through to you?
EMPTY_LINE
 Jesus Christ.
Okay, just let me drive the goddamned car, that's all I ask.
Why should I let you drive? HARRY Why? I'll tell you why, because you're a terrible driver, that's why.
Oh, now all the ugly little truths are coming out. HARRY You operate this vehicle like it was a cane with a red tip painted on the end of it.
Don't talk to me, Harry. I mean it, just don't say another word to me!
I was doing just fine until you started in on me...
 Driving around with a goddamned ax stuck in your car... JOAN And now look at me.   I've got purpose tremors...
Can I at least offer some advice? JOAN No. HARRY Good. Just barge into  the place, honey, and play the big hero. (pauses for a response) When he tells you your sister's not there, what're you going to do, cry? She stops walking and as he moves up beside her, looks defiantly at him:
Okay.   What?
ON Harry, Joan and Nurse One. Presently the Nurse ges- tures to a stairwell leading to the second floor. Joan and Harry move in the direction indicated.
I hope you know what you're doing.
Don't worry.   Just do what I told you. They approach room 206. (In the hallway outside the adjacent room, an old man in a hospital gown is seated in a wheelchair. He wears a stingy-brim hat on his head and reads a pamphlet entitled "Colostomy and You.") 
Doctor!   Just a minute please!
What's the problem, dear? NURSE ONE We're trying to contact Doctor                     * Park, just to be sure he's authorized you to examine Mrs. Ellerman, because you know, we have to follow certain... HARRY I understand.    You're doing your job. NURSE ONE (trying to look around him) Where did your assistant...? HARRY She had to step inside for a moment, to relieve herself.
And if this little kinglet of corporate shit thinks he can get away with this, he's greatly mistaken. Just wait 'til he hears what I'm going to come out with now.
Put this on.
Remember when he passed me off as staff and I was put on official government payroll all through Maui and the Yucatan Mission? JOAN No, I don't.   And hurry up, will you. And as Andy steps into the skirt, Joan takes over the uncompleted buttoning chores:
Yes you do, remember, when I almost died of the vomito negro? Well that's when he was doing all that illegal oil drilling off the Mexican Gulf... She turns to look critically at her face in the mirror:
Have you got any lipstick?
I assume you're a fairly recent associate of the doctor's?
That's very correct. 
Oh, so Dr. Park feels there's a gynecological involvement here.
Sometimes he does, yes.  By the way, did anyone ever tell you what attractive eyebrows you have? NURSE ONE  Oh, well, no, they haven't... Her attention is diverted to a SECOND NURSE entering the wing, calling out to her and making a summoning gesture: NURSE ONE Excuse me a minute, Doctor. Harry watches as she moves away, and while the two Nurses engage in an exchange some distance down the hall, he steps back to the door, opens it and sticks his head inside:
of Joan and Andy, the former whispering urgently in ref- erence to the latter's red hair: JOAN What about her hair?
Who's he?
Don't worry Mrs. Ellerman, we'll be right back. Andy, wearing dark glasses and with her hair hidden up under the stingy-brim hat, steps out into the hallway.
Which way?
Don't mention it. The Nurse watches briefly as they move away, then extracting a key from her pocket, she steps over to the door and locks it.
And this man, who wouldn't know the truth if it came up and spit him in the eye, is accusing me of lying... She hands him the skirt out through the window:
You know what that prick had his lawyer say to me?
That I   was a pretty, grudge- bearing   little malcontent, grasping at some   splinter of celebrity for myself   at his expense. Can you believe   that? She hands him out the blouse and he turns politely away from her semi-nudity as he hands her the doctor's jacket.
Here, put this on. ANDY I mean, the arrogance... (getting into the jacket) What did she say your name was?
Harry.
 Have you got a cigarette, Harry?
Stay in the car. Don't talk to anybody, and I'll be right back.
Two male hospital employees are smoking and conversing outside the door he had previously entered with Joan.
Fuck! He turns and moves OUT OF SIGHT.
Christ. A soft WHISTLE comes from the vicinity of the windows behind her, followed by Harry's voice, whispering: HARRY Joan?   Are you there?
He stands several feet below, looking up at the window.
Is that you?
Yes, it's me.    Hurry up, will you!
Don't worry, honey...
You have to get me out of here! HARRY Everything's under control, just hang on a few more minutes and I'll be right back, okay? As he moves out of sight, her attention is drawn to the sound of MUFFLED VOICES in the hallway. In a panic, she starts toward the bathroom, changes her mind, moves to the bed and gets into it. As the door begins to open, she grabs one of the pillows and quickly covers her head with it.
Andy?   It's Larry Moncrief.
ANDY You son of a bitch!
Who is it?
Who the hell do you think it is?! RED Sweetheart?   Is that you? She pulls the dark glasses off...
No thanks to you, it's me. ... and throws them onto the dashboard.
Aw, Jesus.
Before he arrives, I'd like you to take a look at a list of certain deletions and expurgations, which if agreed to... He removes several typed pages, stapled together and looks down at the pillow covering Joan's face: MONCRIEF ... Red is, very generously, I think, prepared to offer his sanction to a sanitized version of your book. No response. Moncrief glances over at Sturge, standing near the door, then back at the figure on the bed. MONCRIEF I think you should know, that if you push this too far, you run the risk of having him withdraw his consent to your well-being.  I don't think we want that, do we, Andy? He reaches down and removes the pillow.    Joan looks fear- fully up at him:
Andy's not here.
I can see that, Miss Spruance. Would you care to tell me where she is?
As a matter of fact, she happens to be on her way to the police right now, accompanied by a close friend of mine... Her bluff is immediately belied by:
Honey?    It's me again. Moncrief and Joan look toward the window:
I have to tell you something. Joan jumps from the bed and moves to address Harry: JOAN Don't say a word, Harry!       I'm not alone! Moncrief looks at the chauffeur, gesturing toward the door. MONCRIEF Sturge. Sturge exits to the hallway, leaving the door open.
Who's there?
I think you better come in here, Mr. Bliss.
Just go get Andy and leave, will you! HARRY That's what I'm trying to tell you... MONCRIEF I'm a little disappointed to find you defaulting on our agreement.
What agreement?
 Bullshit! I never agreed to anything!  This asshole approached me and tried to bribe me into working for them, and I told him to go to hell!
I believe an agreement was implicit in your acceptance of my check.
Honey, don't go by anything this guy says, because I'm the only one who knows what the hell I'm doing. (pulls the envelope from his back pocket) It just slipped my mind, I was going to tell you.  See? I never cashed the fucking thing!
Are you alright? ... And in response to Andy's stoical nod:
No you're not.  What did that bastard do to you?
I need a Kleenex. She moves toward the nightstand with Joan following:
Wait, I want to tell you what he said to me... She extracts a tissue from a dispenser on the nightstand:
He said I was the only woman he's ever really cared for...
What?! ANDY And when he said it...  ... he had a tear in his eye...
MONCRIEF Well this moves to the top of the list, Red, as one of your more stunning achievements.
 Get me something cold to drink, will you?
Certainly.
Andy, you don't know what you're saying. You're suffering from hostage syndrome or something.
You 'love' him?!
Yes, he's been a very important man in my life, you know that. JOAN  Oh, now he's not a fecal-faced, great white shark!
Stepping into the doorway, holding Struge in a painful armlock: HARRY Alright, what the hell's going on in here? RED Who's this?
That's the dog trainer. RED I thought he was working for us.
Mr. Layls...
I just  want a say, that though you're  someone in a category I admire,  you've gone to some lengths  on this thing here, that I don't  entirely agree with...
Sit down. I have a neck condition and it aggravates me to have to look up at you.
Okay.   No problem. As he seats himself in the other chair, Red reaches up and takes a glass of tea offered by Moncrief:
But I want to go on and finish my thought on this, because... 
So if you intend to do that...  I might just have to have my shock troops blow your brains out. HARRY Oh, uh huh.
 More sugar.
And furthermore, this 'sensitive' man's lawyer more than implied they were willing to put your feet, as well as probably mine, into a block of cement! ANDY Oh that's just all talk... (calling over to Moncrief) Would somebody please get me my clothes!
Harry, I can't believe you're sitting there nodding your head and having a tea party with these crooks! HARRY I'm not nodding my head, honey, I'm just listening to the man.
as Harry, in the b.g., resumes his exchange with Red: ANDY Who is this guy, anyway? Isn't he a little sleazy, Joanie, a bit infra dig? I mean Lewie's a bit of a stiff, but...
You're going to talk to me about sleaze, when you consorted with some maniac tree surgeon, who was flicking his tongue out at me like some rutting iguana, and groping at his naturalia at three in the morning?!
Oh, 'him.'
Oh 'him'?!   He came at me with an ax!
Well, he's very immature.
EMPTY_LINE
As Moncrief steps up to her, offering a glass of tea:
Miss Spruance, would you care for a...
No, thank you. She moves past him, striding over to Harry and Red: JOAN Excuse me!
Raising a baleful eye to Joan: JOAN I don't know what    kind of spell you've cast on my    sister, but it doesn't extend to    me...
Standing above Layls:
In fact, I've been to the police and I intend to press charges against you... HARRY Honey, he's not supposed to get excited.
 ... Not only for having my apartment burglarized but for breaking into Andy's house, as well as hiring someone to frighten, harass and intimidate me!
No, Dammit!
He's got a bad neck...            I'm not afraid of these snakes!!
I never much cared for you, young lady. And I find your display of anger both unattractive and unfeminine. HARRY  Now wait a minute...
 I'm not here to beg your good opinion...
... Red Layls or not, you         ... or to find out don't insult this party in        the right amount of my presence.                      attractiveness and likability I'm supposed to render up! Without removing his eyes from Joan's, he raises the beeper to his mouth and presses the speaker button:
What is it?
Doctor Park is trying to reach you. RED Tell him to hold on.  First, you assume far more interest in you on my part than exists. I had nothing whatsoever to do with your supposed misfortunes...
Will you please stop interfering in my personal life, Joanie.
Go ahead.                           I just want to go out to the yacht and get a PARK                  little color back, for Red? I've got good news.            god sakes... We've found one for you.
Andy, you know something?
The kind of woman you are is a danger to the kind of woman I am, so the next time you and your boyfriend have a domestic spat, don't call me!
Well if you're going to take this kind of grumpy attitude, I certainly won't.
Uh...
I think they must be              I'm over at Poly- outside.                          Medical. How soon can you get over here? JOAN Will you go get them                      RED please, I'd like to leave.        Wait a minute, don't rush me on this, Monroe. Harry moves around Red and steps up to Joan:
Can I just talk to you for        I'm not rushing you, one minute first?                 but we don't have the luxury of waiting too JOAN                      long either. There's nothing for you to say, Harry, it's very clear               RED what your priorities are.         Well, I want a hell of a lot more information HARRY                     before you start Honey, all I've been trying       carving me up. to do, from day one, is look out for you...                       PARK I can tell you this Don't you believe that?           much, Red, I've taken a look at it and I'm very excited.
No, I don't. RED Will you people be quiet, I can't hear this.  Go ahead.
PARK It's as sound a muscular bag as I've ever seen and the pericordium is a gorgeous color. 
I told you I don't want a woman's heart! PARK Don't worry, it's not going to change you in any way. RED How do you know?!   You don't know that! PARK Look, let's just get it done. As Red paces toward the open bathroom door, Harry and Joan resume their discord:
In other words, you don't         And later if you find trust me.                         you're unsatisfied with it, we can always get you another one. JOAN Would you please get me my clothes. Moncrief steps in beside Joan:
I wanted to tell you a moment ago, that I was privileged to see you at the Bowl on the Fourth of July...
So what.   I'm talking to this lady...
RED You can't tell me what kind of a woman she was?! And if she was so godammed healthy, why is she dead?!
And I was especially moved by your rendition of 'The Battle Hymn of The...' Harry suddenly grabs Moncrief roughly by the arm: HARRY Never mind that shit.   Tell her... He shakes him, causing him to spill his iced tea onto the front of his jacket:
Did I spend your money! Did I give you any services for it. Tell this woman the truth, you son of a bitch! Harry releases him and under the following, Moncrief takes out a handkerchief and dabs at his jacket:
Well, shall we start with the fact that you're a married man...  ... and then go on from there?
 Jesus Christ! What are you trying to do to me!! 
Wait a minute, honey... As she disappears inside, Red re-enters, and covering the speaker vents on the beeper, strides over to Moncrief:
You know whose heart this body- snatcher is trying to give me?! A victim of somebody called the Westside Slasher! And this is the doctor you recommended to me!  You're killing me, Monroe! You know that?! You're pushing me to the goddamned wall! Joan comes out of the bathroom with the doctor's jacket and moves immediately to the hallway door and exits.
Honey,   there's a simple explanation to all   of this, if you want me to go into   it... I was trying to tell you at   dinner... She disappears into an intersecting hallway.
Will you just stop for one minute and let me talk to you... It's very complicated...
What in the hell should I do?! 
So let's just go there, sweetheart, and have him sew the darn thing in.
Look, you know, you live a life, honey, you make some mistakes. You get married for maybe mutual benefits, or business considerations weighing on you at the time, and because you don't think the right person is ever going to come along. JOAN I would never have knowingly become involved with a married man. HARRY I know that, that's why I was trying to come out and tell you...
Please, I don't want to discuss it anymore. (after a brief silence) I bet you never read Dante, either.
Now there you're 75 percent wrong. JOAN I mean, I can't believe it, that you'd lie to me about this... HARRY Okay, I lied. Didn't you ever tell a lie? If not let me kiss your high heel. JOAN I'm going in the house. 
And I don't want to see you anymore.
Don't say that, please. I'm asking you to just give me the chance to clear up all these things in my life, because... JOAN No. I didn't extricate myself from the infidelities of one man, just to fall into the arms of the prince of prevaricators... HARRY Well, I may be all kinds of a son of a bitch, and the prince of whatever, but that doesn't mean I wouldn't, when it comes down to it, stand up and take the bullet for you. She finally looks over at him, her eyes brimming with tears: JOAN That's not what I observed, Harry.
Harry, I want my dog.
Lee, I'm in the neighborhood of getting my hands on the money. I'm about to close a business deal with Vark Zulethian of Zulethian Carpets, you've probably heard of him... LEE Come on, I know these dodges backwards and forwards. I need the dog. He's up for a TV series. They stop beside the van. Harry glances at the printing on the side panel: Lee MacGreevy - Trainer of "Duke," - The World's Smartest Dog. LEE  I don't even want the ten thousand now, compared to what he might appreciate to.
Look, our agreement was I could buy the dog back. He's  the only thing I got to prove to people what I can do, and all I'm asking you, Lee, is... 
Get in. He ignores the command and looks at Harry: HARRY Duke, geh im wagen. Duke jumps into the back of the van. Inside is a large wire travel kennel with another German shepherd inside. Lee removes the leash from Duke and gestures at the other dog: LEE Why don't you take this dog, Harry. He's green, but maybe you could do something with him. He opens the cage and clips the leash to the dog's collar.
No, I don't want the dog.
 Go ahead, man. Take him. If you don't want him, pick up some change.  Sell him for a pet.
What do you want, Harry?
VITA You want the Meatloaf Special? He looks up at her, unable to answer. VITA Chicken pot pie?... Tuna melt? No response.
Do you want anything? He finally answers, but from some place deeply felt and unrelated to the day's specials: HARRY Yeah.
A few of us are going to grab a bite. You want to join us? JOAN No, go ahead.    I'm not hungry. HELEN Well, who's going to drive you home?
I'll call a cab. Eddy steps INTO FRAME: EDDY I can take her home. HELEN Good, because I don't want you to be alone. Alright?  See you tomorrow. She moves away and Joan returns her attention to the mirror, then:
Thank you, Eddy.
JOAN I hate living here now. * I'd like to move to a small town, where it's friendly, and everybody knows each other, and there are no bars on the windows... EDDY And the milkman's a child molester. JOAN Thanks, Eddy.
No. I'm not in a bad mood.   Not as bad as yours.
Remember when we were on tour in Japan, in '86?
The night after we did a concert in Osaka? JOAN Could you be more specific?
And when I asked to see you the next                * night, you know what you said? You                  * were too tired and sleepy.
That was witty of me. EDDY But you weren't. Because an hour later, you went into Lewie's room and you didn't come out. JOAN Well, if you remember, I was in love with Lewis around that time, which I confided to you, so you did know... EDDY That's not the reason. JOAN Excuse me, Eddy, you just passed the turn off to my street. No response.
Eddy.
I just want to drive a little, so                   * we can talk.
Anyway,  if I remember correctly,                   * we only  kissed. But if that led you to  believe something that hurt you in  any way, I apologize. He reaches up to adjust the rearview mirror, inadver-            * tently drawing her atttention to his hand.                       *
What happened to your hand?
It looks like somebody bit you. EDDY Somebody did.
JOAN Well, am I supposed to guess, or are you going to... She breaks off, suddenly aware that the teeth marks are her own: JOAN Oh, Eddy.
Why did you do these things? EDDY Because you deserved it. JOAN I didn't deserve it. I've always thought of you and treated you as one of my closest and dearest friends... EDDY I use to think very highly of you, too, but now I don't like what I see. In fact, it's been very disturbing to me, Joan.  Very disillusioning. To see that before you've even gotten rid of Lewie, you've started up with some other man. JOAN Eddy, I want you to take me home now.
You know, there's so  many things about me you have no  idea of. You never ask me about my  life or what I'm thinking, because  you have no interest... JOAN Yes I do. You can tell me whatever you want to, but let's go back down to...
See? You're not genuinely interested. You're not at all sincere, Joan.
Eddy...
You present yourself like you are, but you're not... (moves his face closer to hers) Don't you think I know that, better than anybody? He takes her arm and places it around his neck.
I want you to listen to me, and I                      * want you to kiss me. And this time, like you mean it...
Okay, what is this! What the hell are you doing with this guy! He reaches in and pulls Eddy away from Joan. JOAN Harry, look out! The warning is simultaneous with an attempt by Eddy to stab him with the knife. HARRY Jesus Christ... He grabs Eddy's arm and in hauling him out of the car, rips loose the sleeve of Eddy's shirt.
She pulls open the door and addressing the dog inside, points toward Harry and Eddy:
Duke, fasse!
Oh shit...
You bastards!! The search beam of the COPTER spotlights Joan. She is bent over, picking up sticks and stones and as if routing a deadly enemy, she begins hurling them, as well as a series of invectives, at the lights of the city below, her words barely audible over the sound of the ROTORS. The beam sweeps from her, to pick up Harry and Eddy and an AMPLIFIED, God-like voice comes from above: VOICE  What are you people doing down there?
Are you crazy?! What are you doing, running around with a guy like this!!
You maniacs!!    You liars!!   You shits!! 
It looks like a domestic quarrel. Let's get a car up here quick.
I'm finished wagging my tail and leaving little puddles on the floor...!! HARRY Wait a minute, honey... JOAN And smiling on command, because I don't give a damn whether any of you like me or not!!! VOICE  Are you alright, ma'am? HARRY (yelling up at the copter) Yeah, she's alright!! I've got him!!  The Westside Slasher, I got him!!
He's not the Westside Slasher!!
He's a friend of mine!! Just stand where you are, buddy.
 Ma'am, is this guy bothering you?
Will you shut up!!                  I'm not bothering her, godammit, I love her!! Harry lets go of Eddy and leans down to pick up the knife, gesturing it at the helicopter: HARRY Look, you assholes! The guy was holding a knife at her throat!! VOICE  Okay, put the knife down, fellow. Then to Joan again, taking a step toward her: HARRY What were you doing, kissing this guy!?
I wasn't kissing him!! VOICE  Stand where you are, and put down the knife.
Perceiving the danger to Harry:
Put the knife down, Harry! 
 Don't worry, lady, we've got a car on the way.
I just wanted to tell you, because you don't know, how important you are to me...
 Step away from him, ma'am.
And I   needed you to know this one other   thing about me, because I don't   want to withhold anything from   you anymore... JOAN Oh God, I don't want to know, Harry. What is it? HARRY My real name's not Harry.    It's Eugene. JOAN  Oh.  'Eugene.' I love that name.
EMPTY_LINE
restively fanning herself with a programme, seated in an aisle seat next to Moncrief.
He returns her smile. His eyes shine and glisten with emotion and an expression of undissembled and openly childlike delight takes shape upon his face. CREDITS FINISH.   The SCREEN GOES BLACK.   The MUSIC CONCLUDES.
