Daddy -- you sure I never been to Africa before? It looks familiar.
We saw the same scenery last summer driving to Las Vegas.
Oh sure. Where daddy lost all that money at the cr --
Hank!
-- table.
Hey look - a camel!
This isn't really Africa, Hank.    It's French Morocco.
 Northern Africa.
Still seems like Las Vegas.
 We're only a hundred miles north of the Sahara Desert!
I dunno. In school they called it the Dark Continent.  It's twice as bright as Indianapolis!
Just wait till you see Marrakesh.
Marrakesh.   Sounds like a drink.
You bet it does.
Now wait a minute.     Wait a minute. Simmer down.
 Pardon me.
I'd like to thank you. Without your help, anything might have happened.
 A pleasure, monsieur. There are moments in life when we all need a little help.
May I introduce my wife, Mrs. McKenna.
How do you do, madame.      My name is Louis Bernard.
Thank you, Mr. Bernard.
And this is our son, Hank.
Hallo, Hank.
You talk Arab talk.
A few words.
Why was he so angry?      It was an accident.
 The Moslem religion allows for few accidents.  May I be permitted to sit down?
Oh, sure, sure.      0f course.   Next to Jo, there.
 I thought his name was Hank.
Oh, uh -- 
 That's my wife's name. Jo.      Jay oh. No "e."
How different.
For Josephine. Called her Jo so long, nobody knows her by any other name.
I do.   Mummy.
Now about the "accident." You see, a Moslem woman never takes off her veil in public under any circumstances.
They feed her intervaneously?
Quite a big word for such a small boy.
I'm a doctor.
Oh.   Well, he sounds like one.
He can spell "haemoglobin" -- but he has trouble with "cat" and "dog."
 And where do you practice, Doctor?
Indianapolis, Indiana.   The Good Samaritan.
What brings you to Marrakesh?
We've been to a medical convention in Paris. And while we were in Europe, I thought I'd like to see Morocco again.
Daddy liberated Africa.
I was up around Casablanca with an Army field hospital, that's all.
Do you live in Morocco, Mr. Bernard?
Oh no.  I suppose you came directly from Paris?
We looked in on Rome and Lisbon a few days.
And Casablanca.
I hope you will have time to truly enjoy Marrakesh.
At the most we'll have three days.
You will naturally be stopping at the hotel Mamounia or La Menara?
Why?
 They are hotels for tourists of good taste.
Do you live in France, Mr. Bernard?
Sometimes.
Do you eat snails.
When I'm lucky enough to got them.
If you ever get hungry, our garden back home is full of snails.
 Thank you for the invitation.
That's all right. We tried everything to got rid of them. We never thought of a Frenchman.
Next time take the train.
 Would you like to share our taxi to the hotel?
That's kind of you, doctor, but unfortunately I have some business first.
What business are you in, Mr. Bernard?
However, I'll be there later - perhaps we might have a drink together.
All right. But I'll serve the drinks in our suite.
In that case, I will take you to dinner.
No.   Now that's not a fair bargain.
But I know Marrakesh. I can show you an intriguing Arab restaurant where the food is different, and the manner of eating exotic.
 Well -- that's what we came here for. Okay, Jo? Simple one of those Arabian Nights?
 Okay, But I'm no Scheherazade.
You'll do.
How would you prefer to travel to the hotel? By taxi? Fiacre?
A wagon!   I want to ride in a wagon!
Au revoir.   I look forward to cocktails.
Goodbye.
See you later. And thinks again.
I don't like people who pat me on the head.
 The carriage awaits, madame.
How do you like this!    A horse-drawn convertible!
Hold on.   Hold on!   Here we go!
Ben -- I just saw Louis Bernard talking to that Arab.
What Arab?
The one who was shouting at Hank for taking the woman's veil. He and the Frenchman were talking like old friends.
All right. Let's assume they knew each other, and Louis Bernard didn't bother to tell us. What does that mean?
It means Mr. Bernard is a very mysterious man.
He struck me as quite normaL
What do you know about him?
I know his name...and, uh....
You see? And he knows you' re an American living in Indianapolis, Indiana. A doctor at the Good Samaritan. You have a garden with snails, a wife, a boy who can spell haemoglobin. You went to a medical convention in Paris. Stopped at Rome, Lisbon, Casablanca. You once served in North Africa with an Army field Hospital --
Now hold on. Wait a minute.     We were just talking casually...
Not talking. 
He was asking, you were telling. You might as well have handed him your passport.
What difference does it make?    I have nothing to hide.
Maybe Mr. Bernard has.
Jo. I know this is mysterious Morocco. Inscrutable natives gliding through twisted, narrow streets, but --
 Oh, Ben!
Then relax. You're just mad because he didn't ask any questions about you.
Bitter medicine, doctor.   But I'll swallow it.
Well.   This eases the pain.
What pain, mummy?
Just an expression.
Bon jour, monsieur.
Will you take care of the driver?
Qui, m'sieu.
My name is McKenna, Doctor McKenna.
I'll take care of everything, m'sieu.
Est-ce que vous etes libre?    Jevous prend.
Oui, m'sieu.
We're being watched.
Oh come on.
How about it, mummy?   One chorus.
I'm a little out of form, Hank.
One chorus, and that's all.
 All right, Mr. Hammerstein.    What's your pleasure?
 Quo Sera Sera. Like you and Alfred Drake. I'll be Alfred Drake.
What's your key?
Whatever I happen to hit.
How's that?
Pretty original.
Let's go.
When I was lust a little boy I asked my mother "What will I be?" Will I be handsome? Will I be rich? Here's what she said to me:
Que Sera Sera, whatever will be will be The future's not ours to see Que Sera Sera What will be will be Que Sera Sera.
When I was just a child in school I asked my teacher "What should I try" Should I paint pictures? Should I sing songs? This was her wise reply:
Que Sera Sera, whatever will be will be The future's not ours to see Que Sera Sera! Whatever will be will be Que Sera Sera!
Now I have children of my own They ask their mother "What will I be?" Will I be handsome? Will I be rich? I tell them tenderly:
 There goes our sock finish!
Dinaire for thee boy.
 Right in there.
I can't tell you how beautifully your wife sings.
Yeah.   She is pretty good.
She's marvelous. Too bad it was interrupted.
I've had the same feeling.    Often.
 He said the manager is going to send up somebody to baby sit.
Good.
Mrs. McKenna, permit me the pleasure of serving you a drink.
Thank you.
Were you on the American stage, Mrs. McKenna?
Madame.
Thank you.   Let's sit where it's cool.
Yes, I was on the American stage, and the London stage, and even the Paris stage.
Oh?
I thought you might have seen me in Paris -- being French, and --
The theater, requires time, and for me time is often a luxury.
Have you ever been to Paris, Mr. Bernard?
 I was born there.
What do you do for a living?
Buy and sell.
What?
Whatever gives the best profit.
 Just what are you buying, or selling, now in Marrakesh?
 You know,   I would much rather talk about the   stage. If you tell me what to answer   any?
I'll answer it.
Excusez moi, mais is cherche la chambre do Monsieur Montgomery.
I am inquiring for the room of a Monsieur Montgomery. He asked me for a drink, and l --
Sorry, there's no Montgomery here.
Then pardon me, monsieur, I regret disturbing you.
It's all right.
Mummy -- I can't cut this meat!
I'll do it, Hank.
 May I use your telephone?
I am terribly sorry, but I cannot go to dinner with you tonight.
Bonsoir, Madame, Monsieur.
Good evening. My name is McKenna.
Of course.   The hotel phoned.   Follow me please.
I think you will find this comfortable.
Ben...
Sit down, Jo, please.   People are staring at us.
You're right. People are staring at us.
What people?
They stared at us when we went into the hotel.
Jo, will you stop imagining things?
Good evening.
You must think me awfully rude. I've been staring at you ever since I saw you at the hotel.
 You are Jo Conway, the Jo Conway?
Yes, I am.
Didn't I tell you? I knew I was right.
I'm Lucy Drayton, and this is my husband.
How do you do, sir!
How do you do. We're Mr. and Mrs. McKenna.
My wife tells me Mrs. McKenna appeared at the London Palladium a few years ago.
Of course we hardly ever see a show. Edward is such an old stick-in-the- mud. So I have to console myself with your records.
And I must admit I love 'em. I'm not one for this terrible Bee Bop or whatever you call it.
 Thank you, Mr. Drayton.
When are you coming back to London?
Possibly never again, professionally.
Don't tell me you've given up the stage.
Temporarily.
It's just that I'm a doctor... Yes. And a doctor's wife...
What Ben means is that there are no Broadway musical shows produced in Indianapolis, Indiana. Of course, if we lived in New York...  ...where I hear doctors aren't starving...
 I have nothing against working  in New York. Nothing except the fact   that it's very hard for my patients  to come all the way from Indianapolis  for treatment.
Oh dear, oh dear. I'm always saying the wrong thing.
Not the least, Mrs. Drayton.
Tell me; Dr. McKenna do you always.....
Do you think we could get straightened around.
Only the first two fingers and thumb of the right hand. Never use the smaller fingers. And always keep the left hand in the lap.
Does it have something to do with religion?
More social than religious, I'd say.
It seems to me if you have four good fingers, and a thumb, you should use them all.
Three finger -- four fingers -- for my money this is nothing but chicken in the rough. We have it at every drive- in back home.
Well, as I was saying, I was quite happy farming my bit of land It Buckinghamshire, when these chaps from the United Nations started worrying me.
Edward was a big noise at the Ministry of Food during the war, you know.
So, I pulled myself up by the roots, and here we are. United Nations Relief.
That sounds like interesting work.
You should see my report on soil erosion in Morocco...  But nobody reads it.
Trouvez nous un coin tranquille -- C'est possible? (Could you show me a quiet place?)
Certainment, monsieur.   (Certainly, Sir)
Well just what do you think of that? First he promises to take us to dinner --
Look, we only met him today. We can't expect him to change his whole life --
Oh, Ben!   What's the matter with you?!
Nothing!   What's the matter with you?!
I just don't like to be both privately and publicly insulted.
Can you blame him? Turning down an old married couple for a date with a girl like that?
We're not an old married couple! All right -- He's a heel. I don't understand him -- and I'm beginning not to like what he's doing to our whole night.
 I must do some shopping in the market tomorrow. I do hope it'll be fine. Fine, but not too fine. Of course, I how our English weather is awful, but I sometimes think we don't know when we're lucky. All this sunshine, day after day. It seems unnatural, somehow.
I want to get up.
Ben, I know you -- once you get worked up, you'll start a fight. Now please, sit down and forget him.
 By the way, it'd be pleasant if you'd let us show you round the market place, tomorrow.
Louis Bernard, the big buyer from Paris, was going to take us through the market tomorrow.
 Good. I'll just go over and cancel out.
Ben, don't. Our dinner's getting cold.  We'd love to go with you.
I don't know why Ben gets so worked up over unimportant things.
C'est les deux que cherchez? (Is that the couple you are looking for?)
Oui.
Looks like he has a cure for everything.
Yeah, there's a lot of that going around these days.
What's he doing, Mrs. Drayton?
He's the teller of tales, Hank. He reads legends and famous old stories from history.
Wish he'd say something I could understand.
Ben, I'm glad we came here. It's different, a little exciting.
Wouldn't you rather be in Now York -- rehearsing?
Oh, all that  talk last night was just social chit  chat, Every woman who ever gave up the  stage for marriage is supposed to  want to go back. I was just playing  a part expected of me.
Well, if you do -- let's talk about it -- seriously.
No, if at all, let's talk about it humorously.
Mummy!   Daddy!
Come on with us! We're gonna see the medicine man! Maybe you on learn something, Daddy.
 You're probably right.
 Any time he starts wearing you out --
I've never enjoyed the market place so much. Oh!
Come on!
Ben, this whole market place is very different and exciting.
Just like the county fairs when I was a kid. They'd get everything but the balloon ascension.
That didn't sound too hilarious to me.
I was just thinking...do you know what's paying for these three days in Marrakesh?
And the purse I bought in Paris...
Mummy!   Daddy!
Come on with us! We're gonna see the medicine man! Maybe you can learn something, Daddy.
 You're probably right.
 Any time he starts wearing you out...
I don't know whether or not to believe you.
Ben, glamour is a costume I put on once. It never fit too well. I'd rather live my own life than one written for me.
Including sleeping with a man who always smells of ether?
I don't have to look seductive at breakfast and worry if the Times reviewer doesn't like my scrambled eggs.
How are the acrobats today?
Oh fine, fine. Haven't dropped anybody yet.
All the way home we'll be riding on Herbie Taylor's ulcors.
And Allida Markle's asthma.
Oh, I know it's just a song and a dance here and there... but it's all he thinks about. Show business.
Ben, you're setting a trap for me.
He has a good mind.   Give him a chance to develop it.
You mean give him a change to be a doctor?
I didn't say that.
All right, darling, a deal's a deal.
For every time step he'll learn a new muscle -- and for every chorus, three bones.
And for every matinee?
Two chapters of Grey's Anatomy.
Hey, Mummy.  Sewing machines! Looks like a television commercial.
Now If we could only get four cases of the Seven-year itch, we could retire. Or, if Mrs. Yarros really has triplets, we could at least redecorate the house.
 Oh, Ben, what would they say if they heard us?
One of the reasons I came to a place like Marrakesh is so that we could say things like this without anybody hearing us.
I'd like to say something where nobody can hear us.
This is the safest place.
When are we going to have another child?
You're the doctor.   You have all the answers.
Yeah -- but, but this is the first time I've heard the question!
Hey, Mummy.  Sewing machines! Looks like a television commercial.
Having a good time, Hank?
He's delighted with everything.
Hank!   Hank -- come back here!
Hank!
Hank, it's best to keep away from trouble.
What's going on?
It looks as though the police are chasing somebody.
Ils ont trouvs... ils ont russi trouver...
 McKenna... I'm... Louis.... Bernard.
McKenna -- listen to me -- first!
A man...a statesman...is to be killed...assassinated...in London...soon...very soon...tell them...in London...to try Ambrose Chappell...
Ben -- who is he?
Louis Bernard. Got something to write on?
Is he dead?
 Yes. Yes. He's dead.
Savez vous qui est cet homme?
J'ai dit: Savez vous qui est cet homme?
Il ne parle pas francais.   Je traduiri.
He wants to find out if you know this man.
Of course we know him!  It's the frenchman, Louis Bernard.
 Louis Bernard?
Quel est le nom de ces personnes?
McKenna.
Dites leur que j'aimerai qu'ils viennent tous les deux au commissariat pour faire un rapport.
Just as I thought. He wants both of you to go to police headquarters to make a statement.
Do we have to?
I'm afraid so.  Our friends here have to go to the police Station. I'm going with them to give what help I can.
You don't want your little boy to go, do you?
I wanna go. I never saw a French police station before.
Perhaps it would be best if I took him back to the hotel.
You're very thoughtful.
Ameneles aux Bureaux de Police. 
 I think we'd better set off.  Heaven knows how long we shall be.
Alons-y.   Sil vous plait.
Why should he suddenly turn up in Arab- outfit, wearing makeup?
What's more important -- why was he killed?
I'll bet he was a spy, or something like that.
Ben, what did he whisper to you?    What did you write down?
I'll tell you later.
What is it?
I don't feel very good after what I said about Louis Bernard last night.
Once we talk to the police inspector, I'll do my best to out some of the red tape.
I have to stretch.
I'm afraid the questions will go on till doomsday, if you admit knew this chap Bernard before.
I didn't know him at all.     We only met yesterday on a bus.
They're a cynical lot, these French -- they might refuse to believe that.
They'll have to believe me.     It's true.
It might sound a bit odd,    from their point of view. They saw     the poor chap whispering to you ... and    then they saw you writing something    down...
The question is, are you going to show them what you wrote down?
Ces personnes sont mes bons amis, les McKenna. Mon nom est Drayton. Ils ne parlent pas francais et ils m'ont demand de traduire.
Thank you, Monsieur Drayton, but a translator will not be necessary.  Won't you come inside, Monsieur, Madame?
 Do to the kindness to wait. I might have questions for you later.
 Your passports, please.
You entered French Morocco four days ago.
That's right.
You are a doctor, monsieur?
A surgeon.    A tourist, and an American citizen.
Three good reasons why you should have nothing in common with Louis Bernard.
I didn't have.
You were recently in Paris?
A medical convention.
You come to   Marrakesh with him in the same bus.    You drank an apritif with him in your   hotel room. And you ate at the same   restaurant last night.
But at different tables.
So, Louis Bernard is a stranger to you?
I met him yesterday -- on the bus -- for the first time in my life.
 And yet -- out of five  thousand people -- In a great market place  -- he comes to you when he is about to  die! Is that the action of a casual  acquaintance, monsieur?
 I know nothing about Louis Bernard.
No? Not even, I suppose, that he was an agent of the Duxieme Bureau?
What's that?
Perhaps you have also never head of the American F.B.I.?  It would be so much more easy for both of us, monsieur, if you would cease to pretend.
Now, look here...
 The dead man found out what he had been sent here to discover. That is why he was kill-ed. He told you what he had discovered. Why? Because he placed complete confidence in you. Voila.
Boy, you not only ask the questions you also answer them -- Wait a minute let me ask you a question.
Indeed, Monsieur?
Assuming Bernard trusted me as implicitly as you say, I would never reveal anything he said to me, would I?
Even Americans, I suppose, sometimes find it desirable to betray a confidence?
Let's get something straight. I'm a tourist traveling for pleasure. I somehow got involved in an unfortunate incident. I came down here to make a simple statement of fact, and not to be subjected to a police grilling.
Monsieur, I would like....
 Now hold your horses!   Just hold them.
Inspecteur. On demande Monsieur McKenna au tlphone.
Laissez nous, nous sommes occuppes.
Wait a minute. A telephone call for me?
Where?
 Mais enfin, voyons!
I'll take the call now.    You just take it easy.
Madame McKenna.
I don't know a thing,
Hello.
Doctor McKenna?
This is McKenna.     Who's calling me?
You tell  even one word of that Louis Bernard  whispered to you in the market- place --  your little boy will be in serious  danger.
Hello.
Drayton!
Didn't your wife say she was taking Hank straight back to the hotel?
As I recall.     Why?
Call her. Somebody just threatened me about Hank. See if he's all right.
Passez moi l'htel Mamounia, s'il vous plait. Voulez vous appeler la chambre deux cents dix sept s'il vous plait.... je vois, Puis-je parler au, concierge?...Ah! ici Mr. Drayton de la chambre deux cents dix sept. Est ce que ma femme est revenue a l'htel depuis une heure? Sa chambre ne rpond pas.... je vois... bien... bien... merci... Oh! Un instant s'il vous plait.
Four fourteen.
 Voulez vous essayer la chambre quatre cents quatorze?...Merci.
I can't believe it.
She didn't come back?
At least nobody's seen her.     What on earth...
Look -- you get back to the hotel right away -- and see if you can find out what's going on.
It's so unlike my wife...
I'll finish up with the police and join you as soon as I can.
Right. But don't worry. Probably some stupid misunderstanding. (He starts out, stops) If I find out anything before you get back, I'll ring you here.
Just don't waste any time!
Who was it, Ben?
It was the Concierge at the Hotel. He heard we were being held by the Police and thought there was some way he could help us.
That was nice of him.
 I told him if we weren't back there in fifteen minutes to call the American Consulate in Casablanca.
 But, Monsieur, if you had only told me in the first place, that you wished to consult with your consul!
Let's go, Jo.
There is just one small formality. I must request you to sign a statement of the facts.
If it doesn't take too long.
But a moment. I will send for a typist.
Ben...
 Let me see the message.
I don't -- I don't think you should.
I'm your wife, Ben -- not the police inspector. Let's see it.
Why didn't you give this to the police?
Because I didn't want to.
But Ben, a man's life --
 ...is at stake, I know, But I'm not sure of what's the right thing to do.
I thought we ought to go back to the hotel, pack our clothes, take Hank, and get out of this country as quickly as we can.
 Maybe.
Hank, seeing a man killed in front of him. What a shook it must be to his mind.
 I know.
Why don't you just give that note to the American Consulate -- Why get any more involved?
Jo...about Hank... 
What about him?
Well...he...he's the kind of a kid who can take of himself.
 You get the key.   I'll take care of the driver.
Okay.
Uh...pardon me.
Yes, m'sieu?
Do you know Mrs. Drayton?
The English lady?
 Did you see her come back from the market place anytime in the past hour or so?
 No, m'sieu.
Wait a minute. You don't understand... she had a small boy with her. Mine.
No, m'sieu.
How about Mister Drayton?
Oui, m'sieu.     M'sieu Drayton check out.
He what?
Checked out.
He couldn't have.
Oui, m'sieu.     He did.
 No, Mr. Drayton, the Englishman with horn-rimmed glasses.
Oui, m'sieu.     Checked out.
Ben, What's holding you up?
Frankly, I'm exhausted.    Don't you feel well?
I'll call Mrs. Drayton and tell her we're back. She can bring Hank up here, or I'll go get his.
Jo, hold the call for a minute.
Why?
Because I asked you to.
Ben...we're about to have our monthly fight.
I hope we don't.
Then stop playing Rasputin. I only said I was going to call Mrs. Drayton.
Wait 'til I come back.
Something to relax you.
I'm so relaxed I'm tired.     You take them.
Jo, they're for you.     I'm the doctor.
Ben...
You know how you get when things happen -- tense and upset. Now do me a favor.
Six months ago you told me I took too many pills!
Six months ago you weren't a witness to a murder. You've been excited, fatigued -- talking a blue streak and going around in circles.
I have not.
Jo, I make my living knowing when and how to administer medicine. You'll feel a lot better tomorrow if you take these today. But you don't think so. Okay, I'll make a deal with you.
I'm listening.
There's something about Louis Bernard, the police station, and this whole spy business that I haven't told you yet.
This is the price of curiosity.
What could it be?
There's one way to find out.
All right, Doctor McKenna.   I am now relaxed and listening.
Why don't I call Mrs. Drayton first. You can tell me while she's bringing Hank up.
Just a minute. This whole thing strange right from the very beginning.
It was no accident that Louis Bernard helped us out on the bus, and struck up a conversation. You were right about him.
See.
Yes...yes, you were right about him. He was...was strange.
I know all that.   Get to the surprise.
He got talking to us because he was on the lookout for a suspicious married couple.
Nothing suspicious about us.
He was wrong. It was a different married couple.
And he was killed before he found them.
No. He found them. In the restaurant. Last night. That's why he was killed.
You'll be telling me next it was Mr. and Mrs. Drayton!
 That's just who it was, Jo.
If that's a joke, I don't think it's a very funny one.
Think I'll lie down.
Listen to me. And listen carefully.
That phone call I received at the police station.
It wasn't from the concierge at the hotel. It was from somebody with a foreign voice who said if I told anybody one word of what. Louis Bernard whispered to me in the market place that something...something might happen to...to, to Hank.
Hank?    Why H... ?
They've taken him away.
Mrs. Drayton took Hank back to the hotel. She is downstairs!
Mrs. Drayton has vanished! She never came back here! And Hank didn't either!
Well let's start looking for him.    Mr. Drayton...Mr. Drayton should...
Jo, Mr. Drayton, checked out of the hotel thirty or forty minutes ago!
Ben!!   I could kill you!   Sedative!
All this time you, knew Hank was gone, and you wouldn't tell me.
I wasn't sure, until now.
He's my child more than yours!    I had him.
Let go of me! I'll never never never forget this! We've got to find Hank! We've got to find him.
You think you're the only one strong enough to take anything? Ben, Ben, I hate you, with my whole heart.  Hank! Where is Hank? Hank, oh Hank! Get him, Ben. Please. You damn miserable human...how could anybody...do...
I...never wanted to...come here in...first...Place...oh Hank, Hank darling...if I ever...wake...I'll kill...you...you...
 Darling, if somebody did this to me, I'd say just what you said.
There's still no news of him, Jo.
Both the Draytons are definitely gone. The hotel register says they come from London. Drayton told the concierge he was a college professor. The only thing to do now is to get out of Marrakesh.
As individuals we're helpless here. And because of that phone call, we can't bring the police in on it. I even thought of taking that chance.
But connect Hank's disappearance to Louis Bernard's murder. And the first thing they'd do would be to make me tell them Louis Bernard's message. That...that could be, Hank's...well, it wouldn't help him.
We're going to London.
I found out. The Draytons had a private plane -- that's how they took Hank back. It could lend anywhere -- no question of a passport or anything.
So we're going to London to find him.
 A Man...a statesman...is to be killed... assassinated ... in London...soon...very soon...tell them...in London...to try Ambrose Chappell...  We're going to try this Ambrose Chappell and if he has anything at all to do with this, I'm going to offer him every cent I've got to got Hank back. This Ambrose Chappell guy is our only hope. Understand, Jo?
We've only got a few hours, Jo! We have to got up and start moving.
I've paid the bill, and there's a car waiting downstairs. As soon as I pack, we're leaving.
Oh Ben, Ben, Ben...where is he?   Where is he?
Would you mind waiting for the press photographers?
How could they remember me so well, Ben? It's been four years since I played London.
I guess you're the kind of girl they don't forget.
But how did they know...who could have told them...Ben, you didn't...?
All I did was wire Val and Helen Parnell to get us rooms --
But I didn't count on this --
I'm Inspector Edington of the Criminal Investigation Department of Scotland Yard.
Yes?   What is it?
As things are, there's no need for you to go through the Customs. Will you come this way!
Whatever you say.
 This Way, please.
This is Mr. Woburn -- Doctor and Mrs. McKenna.
How do you do?
Now what do you people want with us?
Mr. Buchanan would like to have a chat with you, inside.
Who is Mr. Buchanan?
Special Branch, Scotland Yard.
This is Mr. Buchanan -- Doctor and Mrs. McKenna.
How do you do?
Thank you, Woburn.
Do sit down, won't you?
Why does Scotland Yard want to talk with us?
Let me say at once, we're shocked... that you son was taken from you in Marrakesh and deeply sympathetic.
Do you know where he is?
What about Hank?   What have you heard?
 I only wish I could give you some cheerful news.
We might find him. Quite soon, indeed, if we work together...Louis Bernard was sent to Marrakesh by the French at our request to check up on an assassination plot -- here, in London. A good agent keeps on staking his life. He doesn't always win.
Bernard reckoned you were a man to trust. He relied on you, to come to us.
Those people kidnapped your boy -- in order to keep your mouth shut. That's right, isn't it?
I think they took him for money.
Then why didn't you go straight to your Consulate in Casablanca? Why did you come to London?
Mr. Buchanan --
Jo...
You're convinced that these people brought your son to London. You're convinced you can find him -- off your own bat. You can't. It's impossible. But with the help we can give you, there's a chance. A really good chance.
They told us not to say anything!
Anything you tell me will be in the most absolute confidence.
That might be true, but --
 Your son is the trump card these people hold. He's perfectly safe -- for the moment.
And when they've done what they're going to do, they'll let him go. So all we have to do is wait.
 No, Mrs. McKenna. If they consider the boy a nuisance, afterwards -- I'm afraid --
Now, don't try to frighten us, Mr. Buchanan.
It's exactly what I'm trying to do -- frighten you. I'm trying to prevent a man being murdered here, in London.
If you don't tell me all you know, you become an accessory before the fact of murder. In English law, you become just short of murderers yourselves.
Ben, what can we do by ourselves?    We need --
 You worked on the wrong McKenna, Mr. Buchanan. Louis Bernard talked to me, not my wife.
Then you tell me.
Bernard spoke in French, and I don't understand a word of the language.
And what did you write down on a piece of paper?
Ben -- maybe they could find those people, and Hank, before --
 Maybe. Maybe isn't good enough for me, and it shouldn't be good enough for you.
You act as if you're the only one who's concerned about Hank.
Now Jo, I didn't mean it that way. We made up our minds what we were going to do -- now let's try to stick to it.
We'd like to cooperate with you, Mr. Buchanan -- but -- but we just can't.
 I have a son of my own.   I don't know what I'd do...
Well, maybe if we --
 A phone call for you, Mrs. McKenna.
Put the call through here, please.
Mrs. McKenna.
Hallo.
Mrs. McKenna?
Yes.
This is Mrs. Drayton. You remember me?
Mrs...Drayton?
Where's Hank? Where have you got him?
He's here. With me. You mustn't worry about him, really you mustn't.
Where is he?        Where have you got him?
I expect you'd like to speak to him, wouldn't you?
Yes.    Please, please!
Hello.    Hello, Hank?
Just a minute.
Mummy?    Mummy is that you?
Oh, Hank, Hank darling, are you really all right?
I'm a little scared, mummy. But I'm all right -- I guess. I miss you mummy, I miss you so much.
Hank.    This is daddy.
Is mummy crying?
Where are you, Hank?   Where are you?
I didn't mean to make her cry, daddy, but I'm scared, and I want to see her.
 Hank, where are you? For Heaven's sake, where are you?!!
Welbeck eight --
He was scared.
It was a London telephone exchange.
 Public call box -- West One.
Do I have to say any more?
You may change your minds.     If you do, this number will reach me.
Everything all right, sir?
It's fine.    Just fine.
 Your room key, Sir.
And I hope you have a most pleasant stay in London.
Oh yes.    Thank you.
 It's from the Panell's. "Welcome home, Jo. Look forward to seeing your family. Especially the little--" 
Cindy and Jan.  You don't know Cindy and Jan.
You'd better keep your book.
What are you looking for?
The only clue we have which might lead us to Hank. The place and identity of Mr. Ambrose Chappell.
Ben's finger going down the column of names. "C - C - CHAPPELL - ABRAHAM CHAPPELL - A.C. CHAPPELL & CO. ALFRED CHAPPELL -- AMBROSE CHAPPELL!!"
There it is -- big as life -- Ambrose Chappell.
Ambrose Chappell - Sixty-one Burdett Street. Camden Town. Telephone - Gulliver 6198.
Don't you want me to call him?
I can't make up my mind, Ben. I'm jut scared to death. I'm afraid we'll do the wrong thing.
 I'll try not to be too wrong.
What are you going to say?
I'll offer to keep my mouth shut and give him all the money we have -- for Hank.  Operator. Get me ...  Gulliver 6198. Thank you.
I go.
Jo!   You look wonderful!
When we got your wire I couldn't believe it. What were you doing down in Morocco?
Sightseeing.
Two minutes later Helen was on the phone to me. And I had to call Jan.
You're the perfect answer to what London needs, Jo. This week's the dullest thing since my first show.
Hello,  Val. Jo and I want to thank all of  you for the lovely flowers. But you  shouldn't have. We might not be here  long!
Hello, hello? Is this Ambrose Chappell? Mr. Ambrose Chappell? All right...I will...I
Oh hello, Mr. Conway.     Didn't know you were there.
 It's McKenna...Doctor McKenna.      Welcome to London Town, doctor.
 Oh, I am sorry.  I knew you were married, but a doctor. How clever! Especially in such a psychosomatic business. Why --
Will you be quiet!
Cindy!
You don't know what psychosomatic means.
I do too! It means when your mind gets sick of your body it does something to it --
The doctor's trying to talk on the phone.
It's only business.   It's nothing.
Business is everything.     Shhh.
Hello? (He tries to keep voice down) Mr. Ambrose Chappell?  I said is this Ambrose Chappell? ...Well this Mr. McKenna. Uh,...Doctor Benjamin McKenna.
 I don't think we need to be quiet. Would you like some drinks?
Well, uh, uh .. are you going to be at your address for a while? Uh huh, it's just some business. Nothing big. Uh huh, well thank you. I'll drop around.
See.   We could have talked.
 That's what I told you.
 I'd like everyone to meet my husband.
 I've heard so much about you, Doctor, it's nice to see you in person.
You look just like, those pictures Jo had in her dressing room four years ago. Haven't changed a bit.
Why should he? He's a doctor.   Probably gets free hormones.
And this one is Jan Peterson who sing almost as well as I do, but can handle those legs like Nijinsky.
I can believe it.   How do you do, Jan.
When Nijinsky got off the stage he was through with his footwork. That's just when mine begins.
And Cindy Fontaine, the most wonderful expatriate I've ever known.
 Haven't you been home recently?
How can I go back to Harrisburg?    They know me there as Elva MacDuff (Shake's her head, pats her wide hips) Cindy. It doesn't fit any more.
Where's your boy? I'd like to see which one you he looks like.
He -- he's staying with some other people -- so we can have a little time to ourselves.
What's his name?
 Hank. Henry, really.
I hope he has your looks, and the doctor's brains.
Thank you again for the beautiful flowers.
 I'm taking orders for drinks.
Okay.   But dinner tonight's on me.
 Room service, please.
A welcome home for Jo.  And I wish I could persuade her to stay a month.
Oh, Val -- I wish I could, but...
 Will you order the stuff?
I'll be back in a little while.
Aren't you going to wait for a drink, doctor.
Thank you, but I'll catch up when I get back.
Ben!
 Maybe he's tired. Maybe he'd like to sleep, or something. Maybe he has ulcers and can't eat.
Ben, please ... 
It has to be done, Jo.
I Want to go with you.
Jan, how somebody so graceful can have such an awkward sense of diplomacy, I'll never know.
You can't.   I won't disappear.   Promise.
Ben, for the last time, please let me go.
Two people are much  easier to follow than one. We don't   want Buchanan's men on our tracks.   Or the other people, either. I'm going   out by the service entrance --
Yes?
I...I'd like to speak to Mr. Ambrose Chappell, please.
Come in .
A sent to see you, sir.
Good afternoon, Sir. I am Ambrose Chappell.
What can I do for you?
Well you see, I uh...
You gave me your name that might be a start.
Oh, of course, McKenna.    Doctor Benjamin McKenna, I called you.
 Oh, yes, yes.
You are Ambrose Chappell?
 I have been Ambrose Chappell for nearby seventy-one years.  But I think I understand your problem.
You do?
Certainly. It happens all the time. You expected someone else -- Just a moment. (He turns and calls out) Ambrose!
I think this gentleman wants to talk to us.
Now, father. Now why don't you go and have a nice rest?
Humph!    I have centuries of rest ahead of me.
Now what can I do for you?
I'm Doctor Mckenna. (He waits, no reaction) Does the name mean anything to you?
I don't think so.
You have no idea why I came here?
My dear sir, I haven't the faintest idea!
I was given your name by someone I happened to meet in Marrakesh.
Oh, yes?
I suppose you've heard of him.    Louis Bernard. A Frenchman.
Louis Bernard?
Let's stop fencing with words, huh? Bernard told me to come here, just before he died.
This man is...dead?
You know it as well as I do. Now I came to make a business proposition. And I don't see how you can turn it down.
What did you have in mind?
You want to talk here?
Certainly. We have no secrets from our employees.
Okay. First of all, I haven't uttered one word of what Bernard told to before he died. And I won't. Frankly I'm not interested in political intrigue, and I don't care who it is you're going to kill here in London. All I want is that boy, and I'll get on the first plane for America.
Now that isn't all.   If money will do anything...
Father -- phone the police!   Quick!
Now, sir -- shall we go into this a little more carefully? You said something about money?
You told him to call the police.   Now don't try to bluff me like that!
This is Ambrose Chappell's -- Burdett Street. Will you send someone round at once? (Glancing toward him) There's is an extraordinary individual here, and we really can't cope with him.
Let me go!
You don't know Louis Bernard?
I've never heard of him.
And you don't have any idea what went on in Marrakesh yesterday, or where my boy is?
No, of course not! Edgar!   William! Davis! Help!
Now just a minute. Take it easy. I obviously got the wrong place. Now stay away from me.
Hold him...hold him...till the police come.
...and back at our flat, after the first night, Chris had the nerve to suggest that the sketch where Bud Flanagan comes in dressed up as the Countess was unconvincing ... that no matter how well-got-up Bud Flanagan was, even if he were dressed by Hartnell, nobody would believe he was an aristocrat. So I said, 'Look Chris, why don't you cut William Hickey's column out of the paper?! --
 Jo. Jo.
Huh?
What's become of that unpredictable husband of yours?  He's been gone over an hour.
Who was it he went to see?   Some man named... (Looks at group for help) ...what was it...Church?
No.   No...you mean Chappell!
It's not a man, it's a place! Ambrose Chapel! Ambrose Chapel! It has to be!
Do they list chapels in the London Telephone Directory?
Let's a take a look.
 Here it is, Ambrose Chapel, 17 Ambrose Street, West Two.
I'm very sorry. 
But have another drink -- and please explain to Ben when he comes in.
There's something weird going on around here that I can't follow.
Let's see if we can figure this out. First of all there was a man named to uh...
Ambrose Chapel.
And Ben rushed off to see him.
Then Jo said it wasn't a man, but a place and she dashed off.
Don't mention it again or I might dash off.
What a temptation.
Can you fathom it, Val?
It must be a now American gag.    I'll ask Danny about it.
Where's Jo?
She's just gone off to Ambrose Chapel.
But -- but, that's where I've been...
It isn't your Ambrose Chapel!
It isn't a he! It's an it!     A building.
She's just gone there.
Where is it!     What's the address?
17 Ambrose Street, Bayswater.
Doctor! Doctor!      It's Jo!   Come back -- it's Jo.
Jo?
Ben -- Ben, darling...what happened -- did you find anything?
No -- I drew a complete blank.
Then it must be the chapel - and I've found it, Ben. It's just a short way from here. It was a crazy thing to do --
 I have the address, Jo. Now stay there until I get there...and don't do anything!
I'll meet you outside.
Will you stick around? We'll be back as soon as we can. I don't know how to thank you.
Three men! You don't know much about checkers, do you?
It's time you went to bed, dear.    You'll get tired out.
Can I finish? I'm winning?
Yes, you finish. Edna, see that he gets some milk and biscuits.
And he'd better have another sleeping pill...I've got to get downstairs --
 You'll go to sleep, Hank, won't you?
I guess so.
Hurry up if you want to finish this game.
Look it doesn't hurt to be kind. Yell out when you want me to open the door.
I wish it was tomorrow.
 That's not a very orthodox sentiment.
Two excellent tickets for the concert at the Albert Hall -- with my compliments.
Your box is nicely placed, or shall we say strategically placed.
Now for the most important part.
What is it?
A record of the delightful Picco they will play tonight.
What about it?
Music is less in your line than marksmanship. If you will listen, my friend, I will play for you the exact moment at which you can shoot. Now listen carefully.
Let me do it for you again.   Now listen for the cymbal crash.
You see at such a moment your shot will not be heard. The listeners will not even be disturbed. I think the composer would have appreciated that. No one will know.
None except one you mean.
Ah, yes -- if you are clever, my friend. Any questions musical or otherwise?
No.
There's's one comforting thought. It happens early in the evening. I hope I won't upset you if I say there's time for one shot only. If you need another, the risk is yours.
I do not take risks.
That's a comfort -- traipsing all the way down to Marrakesh to fetch you I should like you to do me credit.
Your distinguished target's on the way there now. A car is waiting for you downstairs at the back entrance. You will pick up a Miss Benson on your way. She will be your companion in the box. She's there to lend an air of respectability...if that's possible.
You will have the money when I return?
I think you can trust me.
 What is your English proverb -- a wolf in Sheep's clothing?
I think you    had better be going. It is impolite    to be late for a concert. It would be    awkward if they made you wait until    the first selection is over.
See him downstairs, my dear.  I'm sorry you must sneak out the back way, but we have to preserve our respectable front.
There it is.
You may have just hit it right on the nose. You can't be farther wrong than I was with my Ambrose Chapel. Let's go.
Ben, should we get some help from the police?
No, honey, please, no -- let's take a crack at this alone.
 This looks like mother wild goose chase.
 Let's wait and look around...
 Look who's coming down the aisle.
Brothers and Sisters: The subject of my address this evening is adversity. The average life, yours and mine, is often harassed and perplexed by cruelties and disappointments beyond our control.
That's Buchanan's phone number. Go on out and call him and ask him to surround the place with police.
What if he asks me...
Tell him...tell him everything. This is the time. I'm sure Hank is around here some place.
Ben, I don't want to leave you.
I don't know how else to do it, honey.
Few of us pause to think how life's adversities work in our behalf, to make better men and women of us. 
But I believe we should pause now to do a little stock-taking -- to look into our own hearts and see what we find there. Therefore instead of continuing the service, I think we should all return to our homes for private meditation, remembering how little we have to complain of and how much to be grateful for. Next week I shall discuss the fruits of our meditation. Until then, my blessing upon each and every one of you.
Well this is a pleasant surprise, Doctor.
Where's my boy, Drayton?
He's upstairs. As a matter of fact you've just come in time to help my wife with Hank's food. Seems Hank doesn't care much for English cooking.
What do you want? I'll give you money and keep my mouth shut. All I want is my boy.
And what about your wife? Did she go outside just to get some fresh air.
Tell me what you want.   I'll do anything.
All right -- you'll see your boy in good time.
Hank! Hank McKenna!    Hank!   Where are you? Hank! Hank!
Daddy!   Daddy, I'm here!   Dad -
...And Ben is in there now, watching the both of them!
He sent me out to call you -- so we could do something before they get away.
I see, Mrs. McKenna -- and you believe your son is somewhere in the chapel?
I don't know, I don't know where he is...but at least these people will know -- the Draytons. If you'd only send somebody to get them.
I'm afraid it isn't quite as easy as all that.
Mr. Woburn, there isn't any time! My husband is sitting in that chapel waiting for me to bring some help. Can't I talk with Mr. Buchanan? He said when we needed him, to call.
I'm awfully sorry, but I simply can't get hold of him just now. He's gone to a rather important diplomatic affair -- at the Albert Hall.
Well call him there, please!    Call him!
He's on his way. I don't know quite --
 Then can't you do anything -- right away -- before we lose the Draytons?
I assure you, I'll do all I cant as soon as I can.
We don't have days to do this. It's a matter of minutes. Can't you send the police. Or do I have to go to the Albert Hall myself.
 That won't be necessary. I'll see that the chapel is put under immediate observation. By the time you get back a police car should be there. Please return to your husband, tell him to come straight out of the chapel, and let the police take over.
Woburn, Special Branch, hold on.  I must ring off now, Mrs. McKenna. Please believe me, I'll have everything laid on.
There's nobody there!
Are you Mrs. McKenna?
Yes, but something's wrong. A few minutes ago the place was full of people, and now there's nobody!
Our orders are to keep it under observation until a Scotland Yard car arrives.
My husband's in there. There must have been thirty or forty people... and now...
When was this?
It couldn't...it couldn't have been more than five minutes ago!
 Let's take a look.
I told Mr. Woburn he had to hurry.
I tried that. It's looked, Let's force it open.
I'm sorry, madam, we can't break in.  Requires a search warrant. It's the law, you see.
Couldn't you get one?
It all takes time. We'll have a look round, shall we? Matthews, you take the other end.
All right.
There's no one there, sir.
Are you quite certain the place was full of people -- only a few minutes ago?
Of course I'm certain. I was there myself, sitting next to my husband. He sent me out to call Scotland Yard.
It's much too complicated to explain.
We'll just have to sit tight and wait for the car to arrive from the Yard.
So far as we can make out, sir, there's no sign of life. I see, very good, Sir.
Walden, you'll stay here, till the car arrives from the Yard.
Okay.
That's all, Matthews.
You're not leaving?
 Orders, madam. Can we give you lift somewhere?
Yes, I want to go to Albert Hall.
Afraid the Albert Hall's a bit off our beat. Suppose we drop you at the nearest taxi rank?
All right.   Let's go.
Hello.   Hello.
Everybody out into the corridor.   Hurry 
Do what he says. Come on. It will only be a minute. Come on, all of you -- out.
This embassy -- there's always something queer going on.
Bringing people in, in secret...
Give me the Swiss Embassy every time, there's neutrality for you!
Seats at a guinea. Starting Room three and six --
 I would like to see the manager, please.
I'm sorry, madam, The manager's on duty in the lobby. So's his assistant.
Please, I must speak to one of them. Which are they?
 Over there somewhere...
 Is that the Prime Minister?
 No, that's only the Ambassador. The Prime Minister's the one with the bald head.
Well, I'll guarantee he's got a better seat than we have.
You have a very nice little boy, madame.
Where Is he?     Where is he?
Your ticket, madam?
If you don't mind, I'm just looking for someone.
Then he didn't kill him?
Your wife saved him -- it is only a small flesh wound...Oh here he is now...you must come and meet him...don't be nervous...I'll get the aide to present you...it will be all right  Would you present the lady to the prime minister?
I'll report to you fully at the Embassy, Your Excellency. In the meantime...
Mr. Prime Minister, this is the lady who --
My dear lady, I shall be for ever in your debt.
And this is her husband --
A pleasure, my dear sir...  I trust you will permit me to wait upon you tomorrow and to express the depth of my gratitude.
 It wasn't -- it wasn't --
 Oh but it was, my dear lady.
I think Mr. Buchanan would like to talk to you.
 Where's our boy?   Where's Hank?
 We can talk if you'll come in here.
 So you both know the time and place all along.
 Don't be a fool.
An odd coincidence -- both of you turning up here.
 Too bad you didn't contact your assistant. He sent us both here.
 I beg your pardon.
You see, we finally needed that help you offered. We still need it.
 Yes, Mr. Buchanan.     We still need it.
Sir?
We've questioned the woman. Said she bought a ticket that happened to place her in the same box with the man that did the shooting. Doesn't know anything -- but if she does, she's not talking.
I'll see her later.
Very good, sir.
 Please tell me everything, now. Everything.  There's still plenty of room for hope, Mrs. McKenna...
His Excellency will see you now.
Yes...yes...I see. Well if the woman won't talk, she won't talk and that's that, I suppose. All right.
 Excuse me sir, I have a lot to explain to you -- something very unusual has happened. I must also have the money to pay our French marksman.
 Wouldn't it be superfluous, considering that he's dead?
His aim wasn't quite as good as you led me to expect. The target merely received a slight flesh wound in the arm. Worse than useless.
Then your French friend panicked, and made a fatal crash -- landing on the floor of the Albert Hall.
 I don't see how you can hold me responsible. He was most warmly recommended by our people in Marrakesh...
I'm glad you're able to treat the matter so lightly. I am holding a reception here this evening. In a few minutes, I have to welcome our Prime Minister as my guest of honor -- when I hope and expected that he would be totally unable to attend. That amuses you, no doubt?
 I don't know what to say ...
 No. But I do. You've muddled everything from the start. Kidnapping that child in Marrakesh...Don't you realize that Americans dislike having their children kidnapped?
 How else could I make sure the American would hold his tongue?
 And then, to crown it all, you get cold feet and come running along here to hide -- and bring the child with you: Don't you see what you've done to the diplomatic status of this Embassy?
 I didn't think...I only thought...
 How are you going to get the child out of here, eh? Eh? Eh? Eh?
 There's no difficulty about that, surely? The car --
 With plain-clothes detectives planted right round this building?  You English intellectuals will be the death of us all.
 I'll think of some method.   Just give me time....
 Time!
I want the child removed from this Embassy, and removed in such a way that he won't be able to say any more where he has been tonight.
Oh, no!
Right, I'll see to it..
Come in.
Your Excellency, the Princess should be arriving at any moment.
...recognized him, and he recognized me. So he jumped for it. And that is all.
 Trying to liquidate one of their own big-shots. I wish they'd stick to their usual custom, and do it in their own country...
Hello. (He listens for a moment) Hold on.
 Buchanan speaking.
Right.    Bye.
The Draytons are at the Embassy.
How do you know?
We have ways of finding out -- from the inside.
If the Draytons are at the Embassy, Hank has to be there too!
 You're probably right.   But we can do nothing.
Why can't you?
Every Embassy in a foreign country has extra-territorial rights.
What does that mean in common language?
As far as we're concerned, this Embassy stands on foreign soil.
Does that mean they can steal children and get away with it?
We could have the Foreign Office serve a writ on the Ambassador.
...You know, I'm not responsible for the complications of International Law...
...If only we had positive proof that the boy really is in there.
What's the telephone number of this Embassy.
Grosvenor 0144.
What are you thinking about, Ben?
Grosvenor 0144.
I'm going to speak to the Minister himself.
May I speak to the Prime Minister, please?
Tell him the lady who saved his life wants to speak to him. Its important.
What am I supposed to say, Ben? I don't know --  Ben, half looking at Woburn and Buchanan, gives her instructions.
He said he wanted to visit us soon so he could thank you. 
Well, tell him we'd like to see him tonight, at the Embassy, because we have to leave London tomorrow.
My dear lady...This is a charming surprise...
Delighted, delighted, delighted. The Ambassador, too, will be delighted. Any friends of mine are friends of his. We will drink a little toast to your country and to mine. Peacefully we will co-exist...Yes?
 He said -- all right.
Good even. Would you come this way, please? The Prime Minister is waiting for you.
 Good evening, good evening!
This is the charming lady who saved my life at the Concert!
 Madame, you saved the life of the one man, who is irreplaceable in our Country.
 They tell me you are the famous Jo Conway, Madame?
Yes.   I'm Jo Conway.
 Do you think perhaps Madame might be persuaded to sing?
 I'm sure she would be glad to... wouldn't you dear?
Well, I don't know.     It's been some time...
I beg you, Madame. A tranquil coda to conclude a dramatic evening!
All right.   I'm very flattered.
 Stanis would you put up some chairs quickly.  Ladies and gentlemen, we have with us tonight...Jo Conway...the famous Jo Conway...she has graciously consented to sing for us ..  Darling would you see that the Prime Minister has a very good seat.
Would you like to sit down, sir?
No...I'll just stand over here.
That's my Mother's voice!    That's my Mother singing!
Hank -- are you sure? Are you really sure?
That's her!    I know it!
What is she doing here?
Hank? -- can you whistle that song?
I guess so.
Then go on -- whistle it.   Whistle it as loud as you can.
You two wait in the mail room.   I'll bring him down.
I won't be a minute.
I don't think you want to start any shooting, Drayton -- with all those people downstairs, and police outside.
You've got to let the boy go!
Precisely my own notion, my dear.
I'm sure you'll ba sensible, and help me out of here?
Don't ask me for help, you miserable....
You wouldn't want your father to get hurt, would you?
We'll go down the stairs   together in a casual sort of way. Then    we'll stroll along to the nearest taxi   rank. I trust there won't be any   emotional outbursts...
 There won't be. Hank -- don't say or do anything.
Shall we go?
Mummy.
Hank.
I'm sorry we were gone so long, Val, but we had to go and pick up Hank.
