Some microphone feedback followed by:
Okay, here we go... everybody watching? Our screen goes WHITE as a POWERPOINT PRESENTATION BEGINS...
I'd like to tell you all a little lov e story... But the images n screen are JOURNALISTIC PHOTOS OF
Whoops... wrong file... LAUGHTER O.S. and we begin PULLING BACK TO REVEAL:
Hang on, I got this-- Someone O.S. starts CLINKING a fork against a wine glass. Is joined by others, and then we HEAR calls of "Kiss! Kiss!"
Alright, now I'm ready-- And now, on THE PORTABLE SCREEN, Sebastian'S MONTAGE BEGINS: John with his Mom in front of the college dorm, etc.
Here's John, first week of college. Nice hair, right?
You think that feathering 'S easy? true. Takes a very well p wrist action... CHUCKLES from the crowd.
I'm just saying...
Was John a star athlete? A shot of him fumbling a frisbee,
Umm, no. Was he a ladies man? With mid-eighties hair, bad glasses.
You tell me.
What he was, was John, and we loved for it.
Taken r. Sebastian. up l ^a nghte Sebastian turns the camera on himself, holds Sharpie pen, smiles.
And he was always looked after by his guardian angel and best friend.
(to CAMERA, which is
People are staring at me - is my fly down?
No, no, it's cool.
All right, enough with the -  - all right, what? What are you looking at?
Oh, wait, there's something on your forehead. John brushes it.
You got it. Leaf or something.
Yeah, it musta had some sap on it. They pass a cluster of CO EDS who laugh at John.
And then there's Jenny.
Studious, hard-working, quiet.
Well, okay, sometimes not so quiet.
Okay, maybe a little high-spirited, maybe voted Miss Kegger once or twice too often on Fraternity ROW, but a good girl underneath it all. Now could they not fall in love?
Now, in any decent love story, you gotta have the great first meeting.
Turn it off. And as he REACHES for it - WHAM'. He hits another car! The camera goes flying. Fumbles. SCREAMS. YELLS.
Jesus Christ!
They're okay! They're getting out. Sebastian manages to right the CAMERA and unsteadily films John getting out of the car, heading towards the car he hit. The passenger door opens and Jenny comes out. She's covered in frosting and the remains of a birthday cake which she was carrying in her lap. The damaged car is full of balloons.
Are you a complete idiot?!
And so one of the truly great love affairs of the late eighties began. In the home video, Jenny advances on John, hurls the rest of the cake at him, starts flailing at him with her hands.
The driver of the car, another co-ed, gets out and yells at CAMERA .
Brought together by their love of fast cars, spirited Baskin- Robbins Dreamy Drizzle Ice Cream cake.
From there, they went on to work together at the school newspaper.
Although, technically, they didn't work together so much as John worked for Jenny who was the editor of said paper...
Let's just say there were some flagrant workplace violations.
The point is their love grew, blah blah blah... And that love continues tonight.
And now, please join me in raising a glass to my future neighbors down in Florida, and to the dawn of both a marriage end a brilliant journalistic team, the new Woodward and Bernstein, this time with sex. Bad sex, probably, but - anyway: to John and Jenny Grogan.
MmzmII[lm. That feels so good.
Jenny takes a swig from a bottle of champagne, passes it to John. He looks at her.
How do I get vou?
What?
I'm serious. In what world does a guy like me get someone like you?
Are you kidding?  You're part of the plan.
The plan.
Step one. Meet an incredibly sweet, smart, sexy guy.
Done. Step two?
Marry him.
Check. Step three? She smiles, puts her face right up to his...
Now that one's a surprise... They kiss and as we push past them, into the snowy window, we END CREDITS and...
You okay?
Oh yeah.
You know you got this.
I know, I got it.
Who are you?
I'm John Grogan.
Wrong. You're John Friggin Grogan who's about to get a job. She leans over and gives him a big, long kiss.
Um, okay, see now I don't wanna get out of the car.
i really just wanna sit here and make out with you.
--Get out of the car. He nods, starts to get out, then pauses.
Who am i again?
Sebastian says you won some award?
Yes, sir, I got a Mitchy. 
Like a Pulitzer, but for western Michigan.
A Mitchy. Min-hmm. So, tell me, why did you want to leave the estimable - (he flips to a story, reads
- Kalamazoo Gazette?
Well, as you know, Sebastian and I were in college together, and he was always talking about South Florida... mostly about the women of South Florida, but anyway, after my wife and I got married we thought it might be nice to come
For the women?
Uh, no-- for the... the... uh...
For the work?
Yes. That.
Your wife's Jenny Havens, right?
Well, Jenny Grogan now--
She take the job at the Post?
I tried to get her over her
Damn fine writer.
What's the matter, the Post didn't want Yo m?
Well, she does features. I'm more a straight news writer. This is a better paper for that.
Straight news writer, huh. Meaning you think you're a reporter?
Meaning I know I am.
And the six other sweaty-palmed college grads I'm interviewing today, you think you're better than them?
No, sir. In fact, I'm pretty sure I'm not. But I do know that I always seem to surprise myself. Ten years ago, I was doing bong hits and playing Donkey Kong, never dreamed I'd get into college. But I did, and I graduated with honors. Two years ago, my buddies told me that the most Jenny Havens would ever say to me was, You're sweet, but I don't like you in that way.. But she did like me in that way-- and my buddies can suck it because I married her. I certainly never thought I'd win some award with a dumbass name--
That's quite a speech, son. You rehearse that, or come up with it on the fly?
Elevator, on the way up.
So?
He's got me on a little thing they like to call... Desert Storm--
okay... "Jobs." Done.
So what's next? Lunch?
You like the quote about the speed bumps?
-"it would be worth it. And with that, Janet Dickerson's mother's eyes filled with tears."
Yeah, no, it's good. What happened to the Desert Storm piece?
That's it. The injured girl's dad's in Kuwait. What, that's not in there?
 Uhhhh... they must've cut it... And they kinda misspelled your name. John Egan...
What-- you're kidding-- He reaches for the paper, but she holds it away.
Forget it. It's good, John. It's got facts, some color. It's a solid piece.
Thanks. I'm almost done with yours. This idea of voting machines sounds
Well, except on the other page I talk about what could happen-- He goes back to reading. She sips her coffee.
Oh, it continues... An awkward moment as he now searches for the new page, has to fold back the paper. No escaping the fact that ie article is longer and more important than his. She finally gets up...
You know what? The rest is just okay, really pretty boring...
No, no, I'm enjoying it... He tortures himself and keeps reading. She moves to the sink, starts to rinse out her cup...
Wow, they really gave you a lot of space, didn't they? She sets the cup on the counter, looks at the WILTED PLANT on the sill.
Damn. I killed another one. How am I ever going to take care of a kid, I can't even keep a plant alive? John looks up from the paper. "Kid?" She comes gives him a kiss.
I'll see you later, Mr. Gorgan. She headsout, leaving John staring terrified at the plant.
A kid, huh...
Well, what'd you expect? You bought a house, man. A house with a mare room...
What's wrong with a spare room?
It's empty, John. That's what's wrong with it. And you know what else is empty? Her womb.
I'm starting to worry that we're already at Step Six.
What?
You know Jenny, she's got her whole life organized and planned out... Sebastian smiles at a secretary, turns back to John.
You want my advice? Get her a PuPPY
A puppy.
Something other than you she has to take care of.  You have a kid, you're a dad. You're not you anymore. You have a dog, you're a master. You're still a guy. With a life.
And a dog...
Whatever, man. You're still free. You've stopped the clock.
What clock?
Okay... you know in movies when there's, like, a bomb and it's ticking down, ten seconds left, and there's some guy with a wire cutter going, "red wire... blue wire... which one do I cut?" And the guy finally just makes a wild-assed guess and SNIP. Silence. The world is saved.
Okay... is the bomb strapped to a dog... because I'm not sure I'm
John, you buy this dog, you're saving your world. Because that ticking you hear, is not a bomb, it's her biological clock. John looks back at him.
Huh.
Sebastian! They both turn as Arnie sticks his head out of his office.
Your travel's approved. Get outta here.
In motion.
Where you going?
Colombia. I got a guy down there, says he can put me next to Pablo Escobar-- I'm doing this piece, I follow a single coca leaf from Colombia, to the streets of Miami.
Yeah, you and I once talked about doing something like that. We were gonna call it, "From Plant to Pusher." Remember?
Not really.
Actually, it's Grogan--
I want two paragraphs for the blotter.
John nods, looks off at Sebastian who now sits down at his cluttered desk, pulls a DUFFLE BAG from under his desk. John watches with envy as Sebastian starts stuffing cameras, recorders, a bowie knife, into the duffle...
So uh, what kind of puppy? Sebastian looks up at him.
To, y'know, cut the wire.
Get her a lab. They're supposed to be just like little kids. But easier to train.
This isn't the ihop...
A little surprise first...
Sorry about the smell.
When can I look?
Just hang on... Lori opens a door to a laundry room.
Okay. Now. Jenny opens her eyes and sees a utility room. Nine yellow yipping Lab puppies tumble out of a cardboard box towards John and Jenny.
Happy Birthday.
Oh my God... they're adorable...
That's okay, they can't leave for another three weeks anyway.
John, we never even talked about this.
You're right. Let's go. He's kidding. And besides, Jenny's already on the floor, letting the puppies climb all over her.
Look at you guys...
I got papers on the mom and the dad, so you can register these.
Is the father here too?
She points to one male puppy, who is clearly the goofiest most excited.
You can have him for $325.
How sweet. He's on clearance...
Well, he's a little too stocky for the breed, so he probably won't show.
He's so sweet...
He likes you.
John, I don't know if I'm ready for a
You have to wait three weeks for the litter to get weaned, before you can bring 'em home anyway.
Plenty of time to get ready.
I won't even be here. I'm gonna be with my sister then...
No problem. I can take him. Be good bonding time. Get him all trained in time for you to come home. A chuckle from Lori.
Let's give 'em all the scare test.
I hear the best dog in the litter is the one who doesn't spook easily. They turn out to be the most people- centered.
Well, that's your guy. John scoops him up. Clearance Puppy licks his face. John hands him to Jenny. She lets him lick her face...
I would've picked you anyway--
Meant to be. He watches her cuddle the puppy and knows he's done the right thing.
You really sure about this? I mean, a puppy's a lot of work.
How hard could it be? We hear A COMMOTION is coming from the woods, something crashing through the brush, breathing heavily. They both freeze as the sound comes their way.
What's that? Just then they are nearly knocked off their feet by a huge, rampaging Labrador, soaking wet, covered with mud and burrs. It circles them, barking WILDLY, a crazed look in its eye. It jumps up on John, muddies his shirt, then barrels past Lori into the house, knocking over a chair on the porch as it goes. A beat.
I think we just met the dad.
Call me as soon as you get him home. Oh, hey, we need a name.
How 'bout I just call him "Clearance Puppy" until you get back. I only hope he doesn't say his first word without you.
Whoa! He got big... This is the right one, right?
You should see him pack away the puppy chow.
So, what if I run into any problems?
No, that's okay, I'll just... John opens the door, indicates that Marley should jump in. Instead, the puppy runs around the car, barking, jumping up on the bumpers. John finally catches him, lifts him up, puts him on the front passenger seat atop some towels.
There we go.
Hey... guy. The dog just stares at him quizzically. Uncomfortable alone with the dog, John turns on the radio. BOB MARLEY plays and the puppy THUMPS HIS TAIL.
You like Bob Marley? The dog THUMPS HIS TAIL AGAIN. John turns up the music. THUMP. THUMP. THUMP faster this time.
 Bob?  Marley.
Marley. Okay-- Marley. Cool. But now the pup starts wriggling towards John, John tries to put him back...
No-- stay boy... stay.  Okay, not really safe, bud-- Marley gets stuck with half his body draped over the console. He remains like this, his tail thumping... John gives up.
Alright, fine, but just this time.
This is our house... The dog immediately pees on the ground.
And now it's yours.
This one's water. This one's food.
C'mon, man, you've already had kibble and half a seat belt.  All right. Special treat. But just today... He opens the bag and Marley tackles it. Several cupfuls spill onto the floor. John goes to the pantry to get the dustpan and brush. When he returns, he finds Marley has eaten the food in the bowl AND every last scrap of spilled food. And now he's squatting to pee again...
No, no, no! He picks up the puppy and rushes him outside.
Okay, now. Pee. He motions with his zipper.
C'mon, man, do your thing.  Alright, I'm gonna show you this one time... From behind, we see John peeing.
Except you gotta lift your leg.  See, this is how you guys do it... Marley looks at him, squats and pees...
Or you could do it like that. Just not in front of other guy dogs.
Marley. I like that...
Are you sure? Because it can be temporary...
No, it's good.
Oh, yeah, he's pooped. Marley lets out a SQUEAK as he tugs at a couch cushion...
Yeah... (snapping his fingers at the dog, shaking his head "no") He's very cute. Just like a little kid only furrier.
Put the phone by his ear... John chases after the dog who burrows under the couch, his tail sticking out so that John can't get him...
Uh, okay, he's listening. John just holds the phone awkwardly as Jenny coos baby talk.
 Hey, Marley! Who's my good boy?! Mommy can't wait to meet you...
Anyway, don't worry, he's doing great. Like he's lived here his whole life. All eight weeks of it. And you know what else? I think he's going to be pretty easy to train. I mean, he's curious which means he's smart, right?
Of course he is. I can't wait to see him.
Just him?
Jealous?
I'm not the one sleeping in a box.
I love you. I'll see you Friday.
I'll see you in the morning, okay? Marley looks at him with a heartbreaking expression. John hesitates.
Aw, come on, don't. You'll be fine, alright. And tomorrow, we're gonna tear it up. I'm thinking kibble, park, chew toy, the whole nine yards. Okay? we good? Marley doesn't-look so good, looks kind of sad. John turns and gets out of there.
Big day tomorrow! Rest up, pal! He listens a beat; Marley quiets down. He gets in his car.
So I'm there in this cave, right? Blindfolded. And I can feel the machine guns, there's like nine of 'em around me... and they tie me to a chair and then Escobar comes in and says-- are you ready?
Some of it.
Man, I wish you could've been there.
Yeah, but then I wouldn't have been able to do the piece on the water main break at the library. That would have sucked.
 Your time will come, amigo.
I'll drink to that-- They toast with their beers, Sebastian clocks John looking at his watch.
You gotta be somewhere?
Oh. No, it's the puppy. It's his first
You got adoc?
Marley. A little lab. Like you said. Remember? The bomb...
Oh, right. Smart move. You'll see.  You've just preserved your quiet way of life for at least another two years.
Millers got robbed again.  And that mutt of yours hasn't shut up since you left. John looks towards the garage where we hear WHIMPERING.
No no... I just wanted you to know I'm back. The puppy whimpers and he goes over to him, reaches into the box and pets him...
Buddy, you really gotta chill, okay? Yeah, I know, good to see you, too. But I'm just inside the house, I'll see you in the morning. Big day tomorrow. Get some sleep.
Just this one time. John climbs into bed, shuts off the light. Marley whimpers and John rolls onto his stomach, reaches into the box and strokes his back, the puppy lays down, still whimpers...
Oh, come on...
As John opens his eyes to see Marley snuggled up against his face. Marley's eyes looking into his. John reaches over the puppy and shuts off the alarm.
She comes home today. Hung over, he sits up, looks around the messy room, half due to John's bachelor housekeeping habits, half due to Marley. Not only has everything has been chewed, but some time during the night Marley discovered how much fun toilet paper is.
We should probably clean up.
Huh. It's already completely gnawed up. John looks at Marley who emerges dragging a roll of toilet paper, rams right into the screen door, bounces back.
Marley, it's a screen, you're not gonna
Meanwhile, Marley backs up a few steps, gets a head of steam, then rams into it again, this time goes right through it.
--there.
I'll be back in an hour. Be good.
How's my puppy?
I'm okay. A little tired, but
She nudges him. He gives her another kiss.
He's waiting for you.
Marley! She takes off for the side door of the garage.
Oh my God. It's a mess. It's almost incredible that it's all due to a single puppy. The box is in shreds; so are the blankets. A puddle of urine on the floor. A large piece of dry wall has been chewed off near the big garage door. The garbage cans are overturned. Marley is whimpering in the corner.
Wow. Okay, this is not how I left it.
How long has he been in here?
An hour, at the most.  Jeez... he Alg drywall. That's just not right.
 Look. He's shaking-- Another bit of THUNDER and the puppy whimpers louder.
Does thunder scare you, Mister? Hm? He licks her face, snuggles into her. She gives him the Pluto stuffed animal. She hugs him...
Look at us. She looks up at John and smiles. He returns the smile. Mission accomplished.
Marley, no! Jenny chases him into the kitchen, past John who holds up the newspaper...
He gave me an extra paragraph... Marley bursts through the back screen door...
Marley, no! John chases him across the backyard. Marley goes under the fence and John starts to go over into...
Marley, no! They wave to the NEIGHBOR standing on his patio watching.
Hi, Tom-- Sorry...
Happy Thanksgiving... Marley goes through a hedge and out onto...
Marley, no!
I don't understand, why me?
I'm in a bind, John.
But I'm a reporter, not a columnist.
It's a step up.
Yeah, but it's a step away from what I wanna do.
It's also better pay, you set your own hours, pick your own topics...
and it's only temporary, just until I find someone permanent.
What happened to Jerry?
You may have noticed that in every other column, he went on about The Pie Palace?
I really haven't read his--
Turns out he's been getting free meals in exchange for mentioning the joint. It's also why he became such a fat ass. John nods. Oh.
Anyway, it's twice a week. And like I said, it's only until I can find someone else to replace him. Then you're back on, uh... whatever beat you were on.
John pulls up, gets out of the car. His neighbors, The year-old GIRL -- short blue hair, pierced eyebrow -- and her MOM -- in a nurses uniform -- unload groceries from the car.
Your dog's funny.
He tried to eat one of our tires.
Yeah, well, dogs need rubber. Little known fact, helps the digestive tract...
Right. Along with the occasional black Converse high top which I'd still love to get back by the way.
I'll do what I can.
'Preciate that.
I think he dislocated my shoulder. He doesn't heel-- hell, he doesn't even walk, he sprints, and I had to pull him off three dogs...
Poodle?
Yeah, among others. There was a Yorkie, a Dalmatian and a bichon frise that may never be right again.  What're you doing?
Arnie gave me a column.
You're kidding? Congratulations!
Oh, yeah, it's a big honor. I get to write about zoning laws and yard sales.
I bet you make something out of it.
It's only temporary until he finds someone else. I'm just trying to get something down for Tuesday. She gives him a kiss, starts out of the room
You'll think of something. And John, I'm serious abut Marley. He wreaks havoc everywhere he goes. We gotta do something...
Incorrigible? I don't believe in that. All dogs want to learn. But they can't when their owners are weak-willed.
I'm very strong-willed.
And where is your animal?
He's over there. With my wife. He was a little excited. He usually needs a little time to calm down. Ms. Kornblut looks at Jenny as she struggles up with Marley.
I see. He calls the shots. Which of you will be the trainer?
we thought we both would, since we want him to listen to both of us at home -
A dog can only answer to one master. Which one of you has the most natural authority in your own relationship?
I thought so. We begin.
Sit!
The students order their dogs to sit, and most of them do. The ones that don't require only a little effort to get the idea. Whereas: Jenny orders Marley to sit; instead Marley jumps up on her and puts his paws on her shoulders. She presses his butt to the ground, and he rolls over for a belly rub. She tries to tug him into place and he grabs the leash in his teeth, shaking it playfully.
That, class, is an example of a dog that has been foolishly allowed to believe he is the alpha male of his pack. And therefore he cannot be a happy animal.
 Yeah, he looks really bummed. Kornblut hears him, death stares John.
You. Joker. Rotate in. John looks at Jenny who shrugs, holds up the leash for him to take.
The choke chain. When your animal walks properly by your side, there'll be slack. If he pulls, it tightens around his neck like a noose and loosens as soon as he stops pulling.
Does it hurt them?
Well, it's not called a hug chain. But they learn to like it. Go on, collar your dogs. Everyone else quickly, easily gets the choke chain around their dogs' necks. Of course. Meanwhile: John kneels down and struggles to put it. around Marley's neck. Marley, liking its shiny jingling, tries to eat it.
He likes it.
That's because he's eating it... Get it out of his mouth. Class? Give your dogs the sit command. All the dogs sit; John forces Marley's butt down.
The leash is held in two places. Loop around your right hand, left hand at waist level. Dog always on your left, of course.
That means us, pal. He rearranges Marley so he's on John's left.
Now, when you give the heel command, step off with your left foot - I don't want to see any right foot first steppers - and walk. If your dog gets ahead, administer a correction by forcefully bring your left hand down and towards the right, and he'll respond. Shall we? One, two, three - now! Just as the dogs and owners prepare to step off, Marley lurches ahead of the pack...
Marley, heel! Marley takes off like a fighter jet, dragging John behind.
Correct him! John gives a mighty yank on the leash. Marley coughs, hesitates. John loosens the leash - and Marley explodes forward again. John yanks, Marley stops, John releases, Marley explodes forward.
Rein in that dog! All right, everyone, line up again. Demonstration. Mr. Grogan? Pay attention. She takes the leash from John and efficiently guides him into line with the other dogs.
It's a simple question of confidence in one's own authority. Shall I demonstrate a simple walk?
Be my guest.
Class? Even an unruly dog wants to obey his leader. Marley? Heel. And she steps off confidently - but Marley is a bit more confident than she is. He lunges, she pulls, he falls back on his hind legs, then barrels up and lurches forward. Ms. Kornblut half-stumbles, half rockets across the park. She manages to turn Marley around, and the whole process begins again as they make their way back to the line. Her face is flushed with embarrassment, anger, and exertion, but Marley, jowls frothing, is having a ball. It's like a walking tug-of-war. With difficulty, Ms. Kornblut manages to return Marley to John, but not before, as a coup-de-grace, he starts humping her leg enthusiastically. She struggles, he knocks her down, and then he buries his face in her crotch and humps her knee. John and Jenny rush over. John restrains Marley; Jenny helps up Mrs. Kornblut. She's livid.
That's it! He's out!
He usually just does this with poodles.  Maybe it's the hair.
He's a bad influence on the others. Leg-humping is a virus. Once it takes hold in a group - he has to go!
Well, that was fun.  Congratulations, Marley. You flunked obedience school.
You know, John, there is something else we can do--
 No, no, I'm not doing that to him.
It's painless. And he'll be a lot more comfortable. It'll calm him down.
Yeah, you know why he'll be calmer? Because he'll have nothing to look forward to.
What're you talking about? There are plenty of other things that'll make him
That's where you're wrong. Trust me, Jen: I know. I'm a guy. And yeah, lots of things make us happy, but the only thing we really look forward to is sex. Runner up: the possibility of sex.
Oh, Please. Every book says he'll live
It'll just feel longer.
John, he's out of control. It's the right thing to do. John sighs, looks at Marley who's now humping the stuffed "goofy" that Jenny gave him as a puppy.
It won't be so bad, buddy. You'll see. Sex is overrated. Marley looks-at him.
Okay, I'm lying, and I think you know that... so maybe the best thing is to just not talk about it. Jenny cuts him a look. He lowers his voice.
Poor son-of-a-bitch. A guilty John cracks the window just a bit and Marley begins listing to starboard, leaning against John to catch a whiff of the outdoor smells. Marley crawls onto John's lap...
Oh, okay, you wanna sit up here... Marley now jams his nose into the small opening, snorting to catch the fresh air
Least I can do. John lowers the window and Marley gets his whole snout out.
Here you go... John lowers the window again and now Marley sticks his whole head out, ears flapping behind him, tongue hanging out like he's drunk.
He's so happy. He has no idea what's about to happen to him. Jenny looks over as Marley hooks his paws over the half open window so that his neck and upper shoulders now hang out of the car.
He's making me nervous.
He's fine. He just wants a little
Suddenly Marley slides his front legs out the window until his front armpits are resting on the glass.
John, grab him! Before John can do anything, Marley is off his lap and scrambling out the window of the moving car.
He's onto our evil plan, and he's making a break for it! But now his butt is up in the air, his hind legs clawing for a foothold...
Uh, little help here... John's stuck. He can't pull the dog back in the window and he can't open the door. He can't let go as angry drivers behind them are now starting to swerve around them. John hangs on for dear life...
I got him!
Strip mall get approved?
Riveting planning commission vote. Knuckle-biter. 8 to 1.
You up for a beer?
Can't, I gotta finish the column. Maybe tomorrow?
Can't, I'll be in L.A. Part of that drug piece I'm doing--
Right. Another time then. John watches him move off, a secretary giving Sebastian a big smile as he passes. John sits there another moment, looks at his desk. A photo of him and Jenny. One of Marley with a flip flop in his mouth. John chuckles to himself, then deletes the column, starts typing a new one.
I'm really sorry, I'll go back and do the zoning piece--
The hell you sorry for? It's hilarious. John sits back down, looks at Arnie. See, the thing is, Arnie's face doesn't say "hilarious," but...
I loved it. Getting kicked out of obedience school, the humping, the "Great Escape," all of it. Hysterical. Again, Arnie's face remains dead serious as he passes the paper back to John.
Run it. As is.
Thank you, sir. John starts out of the office.
Hey, Gorgan...
I'll be sure to pass that on.
To two years.
That was fast.
Good, though, right?
Really good. He lifts out of his chair and kisses her, a long one.
So. What's next?
I was thinking desert.
No, I mean on your list.
My list?
ed, Remember, when we first got marri you had this whole checklist, with like the game plan.
Right...
So what came next?
Let's see... a new car maybe?
afterthat? We can do that. What was
Yeah.
well, it was between a new roof and a baby. He studies her for a long moment, then...
I can probably live with a few leaks.
Really? Because a leak can turn into something bigger... and that can be a big responsibility.
I know.
I was just thinking that we might want everything fixed before we went to the next step.
Well, we've already fixed Marley. Literally.
You're serious about this?
I think so. JENNY t an And you know we're not talking abou actual roof here.
Yeah, I got that. She looks back at him, finally nods. They are. Then..
Okay. Maybe, instead of tying to have a baby, we should stop trying to not have one.
If I'm following you correctly -- and I think I am -- this is the part where we go home and get it on, right?
Bingo.
As Jenny pushes John back onto the bed, starts kissing Things getting hot and heavy quickly. As they kiss...
Honey?
Yeah...
Did you eat some kibble?
What? And now they part and we see MARLEY'S HUGE FACE RESTING ON THE SIDE OF THE BED, watching, panting up a storm.
Marley-- get out of here!
it's fine, he's a dog, he doesn't what he's looking at.
Oh, he knows, and trust me, he the hell out of me right now. Go on, Marley! Get out! But Marley jumps up on the bed, tries to climb on both of
Marley! And now they both start laughing as the dog tries to lick their faces...
This is even funnier than the last one.
Thank you, sir.
You're good, Gorgan. And not just the dog stuff. The piece on the women of Boca last week. What'd you call them?
Boccahontis.
Hilarious. John nods, starts for the door...
Is it true what you wrote? You and the wife are trying to have a kid?
Well, we're not really trying.
How's that work?
Excuse me?
Are you having sex?
Yes.
ant? With the intention of getting pregn
i guess.
Congratulations. You're trying. John just stands there. Arnie looks back at him.
I assume you've thought this through?
Yeah, I mean...
John walks out of the office, pensive, sits down at his His PHONE RINGS.
Grogan.
I just thought I'd let you know that I'm ovulating.
Oh.
Just in case you wanted to come home.
Like right now.
Daddy! And now, another KID, 4-year-old girl, jumps up in and out of frame...
I wanna push the button!
Daddy can't lift you right now--
 You said I could push the button!
Alright, okay, I'll just-- He tries to pick her up without leaning over...
Ow! You're hurting me!
Okay, you know what? Never mind, no button! A very uncomfortable John now steps forward...
You want me to give her a hand?
Oh-- would you mind? John lifts the girl up to the panel. She runs her hands, from top to button, down the panel, pressing every single button.
Sarah! Goddammit--
And now the little girl starts bawling in concert with the baby, while a trapped John backs up into the corner.
Hi.
Hi. John watches the young couple go, arms around each other.
Hey, boy.
Out in a sec! John stands there, Marley looking at him.
 So. This is us not trying. The bathroom door opens and Jenny walks out in a tiny, silky two-piece thing...
Hey, Sailor. She walks into the bedroom. John looks back at Marley as he follows her into the bedroom.
Catch you later, buddy. And closes the door on the dog.
So the puppy wasn't enough?
Well, technically, we're not trying. But you know Jenny.
But things are good right now, just as they are, right?
Yeah, things are really good.
So why change it up with a kid? I mean, have you already forgotten my little cautionary tale...
The bomb, right?
Yes. The bomb. And just so we're clear, the countdown sequence has been reactivated. By you.
Well, it's been a few months and nothing's happened. Which actually makes me wonder if--
Mr. Grogan? The BARTENDER sets a PHONE down in front of John.
Phone call. I loved that thing you did on your dog watching you and your wife have sex? Really funny stuff...
Seriously, man, your stuff is classic.
Well, it's just temporary, but thanks. John cuts a look at Sebastian, picks up the phone.
Hello.
I just wanted to let you know that there's a naked blonde in your bed.
Oh. Why don't you two get started and I'll be there as soon as I can.
Very funny. Can you come home? I'll make it worth your while.
Oh. Alright then. I'll see what I can do. He hangs up. Looks at Sebastian.
Uh, I'm sorry, man, but I gotta jam. I forgot, I had this thing, I gotta deal
She's calling you home, isn't she?
Yeah. See you later. John starts out of the bar. Sebastian calls after him.
Tick tick tick!
You know, this baby thing. I been thinking maybe we should take a break. You know? Obviously, it's not happening. Maybe that's nature's way of saying it's not good timing. No sound from Jenny. He struggles on.
Maybe this is a sign that we're not ready for this. I mean, have we really thought this through? Because--
He looks up to see Jenny at the bathroom door. From her back she brings out a home pregnancy test strip.
I'm pregnant.
 Great. Wow, that's... great.
But you just said
Yeah, no, I mean-- okay, this is definitely awkward now, but...
You wanna start over?
Can I?
By all means.
Thank you. Okay, well... I gotta be honest, I'm a little panicked.
Are you panicking because I'm pregnant... or because you're afraid I'm going to hit you?
Both. It's a twofer thing.
Are you scared?
No. No. Not at all.  Yeah, yeah I'm pretty scared.
 Me, too. But we're gonna be okay.
We're gonna be okay.
That's probably the last one about Marley for a while. But in about nine months, I'm gonna have a new subject, might be just as fun. Jenny's pregnant.
What?
A gift, John. She's carrying a child. Your child. Don't you think that's worth something?
Uhhh...
You don't wanna make the mistake I did. Listen to me. There's gonna come a time, she's fat, she's nauseous, her ankles are swollen, and she's gonna look at you, and this is what that look will mean: "You bastard. You did this to me. You dick, you ruined me." But then...
she's gonna remember that little ring, bracelet, anklet, whatever, that you bought her, and she's gonna feel better. Understand?
Yeah.  Can I just--
Go ahead. There's a jeweler on the corner. Mention my name.
Oh, John, it's beautiful... She sets it down on the coffee table, then moves close to him.
Thank you... She kisses him.
I was just thinking about you when I walked by the store and saw it in the window...
That is so sweet.
Put it on... She turns back to the coffee table and looks around...
Where'd it go? It was right here.
You just put it down. It can't have
And then he stops. Looks off. So does Jenny...
Oh God... Marley stands a few feet away, looking strangely gleeful. A glint of Gold in the moonlight dangles from his mouth. They both get up, start to move towards him...
Hey, boy. Come here. Look what I got for you.
We don't want any trouble...
Yeah, here's a little something-- treat. Marley She reaches into her pocket for an moves looks at her. Is this a trick? He considers. Then he closer. John tiptoes up behind him, ever so slowly.
I just want to give you a treat and a big kiss. That's a boy... Inch by inch, Marley approaches her. But then, behind Marley, John knocks against a table. Marley freezes.
He made me! Go! Jenny lurches for Marley, going for his collar, and John leaps at him from behind. Marley skitters away. Ah, a game! He wags his tail, prances, sticks his rear in the air and his puts his head to the ground. John feints, tries to maneuver Marley back into Jenny. Jenny finally grabs him from behind. John pries open his mouth. Nothing. He reaches inside, looks up at Jenny.
Uh-oh.
Dr. Jay's sending over a laxative.
Yay.
Man, you gotta lay off the mangoes.
I think it's shinier than before. Amazing.
Yeah. He did us a favor. And I only threw up eight times.
My hero.
How's that crazy dog of yours?  I'm a big fan.
Thank you.
The heartbeat'll be very fast, like a little train. That's normal.
Is it too soon to tell the sex? Not that I care. He can be any sex he wants. Male, female, we don't care. Unambiguous genitalia, if we had our druthers, but whatever...
Shhhhh... hang on... She listens for a moment with a little microphone hooked up to a speaker. Nothing.
Sometimes you,can't hear it, depending on how the baby is lying.- You're ten weeks, right?
Next Monday, yes.
Might be a little early for that. Let's go right to the sonogram. Did you bring your blank tape?
 Ready to roll.
Let's get a good picture first. It'll be on the monitor there. The Nurse begins running the instrument around Jenny's stomach. John and Jenny peer at the computer screen.
Hi, guys. Let's have a look at your baby, shall we?
 All right, there we go. Good. Now, look over there. Much better resolution, right? Jenny and John, holding hands, look at the computer screen. They see a sac, which, with a click of the mouse, Dr. Sherman expands and expands. But it's empty. Jenny tries to smile.
Is there anything in there?
Not what you'd expect to see at ten weeks.
Not quite ten weeks. Dr. Sherman looks at them directly. Kindly:
Jenny, I'm sorry, but there's no heartbeat. John and Jenny are still, silent.
One in six pregnancies ends this way. it just happens sometimes, that's all. I'm very sorry. But you're young and healthy and in a couple of months, you can try again.
How could this happen? What'd I do wrong?
You didn't do anything--
I must have. Otherwise, how could I lose it?
Jenny, it's not something you have any control over. It's like the doctor said, it just happens--
Not to me... I did something wrong. I know it... I did something wrong. I'm sorry, John...
Don't say that--
But I am-- I'm sorry--
I don't need sorry. You didn't do anything! She turns away and begins to cry. John just sits there, staring at the videotape in his hands. Outside in the hall, the door to another examining room opens and they hear a couple laughing, talking excitedly. Jenny and John look away from each other, their pain made even worse.
In a couple of months, we can try again. Okay? Jenny just looks out the window.
You want some tea?
Take some time off. It'll be fun, clear our heads, right?
Oh. He's... big.
Yeah. Close to a hundred pounds.  He just wants to say hi. He won't hurt you. Just stand still and be calm. You're a dog person, right?
well, actually -
- Ready?
okay? John releases Marley who springs on Debby, knocking her back.
I'm okay! I'm okay!
He's not supposed to do that. You have to knee him. Anyway, it won't happen the whole time. Just maybe when you come home.  This is everything you need to know.
Debby. Welcome to our home! Marley is a spirited dog who loves interaction. We've never left him before but we're sure he'll behave just as he does when we're at home. They kiss him goodbye. Get in the cab and go. Debby runs to Marley, grabs his leash and struggles with all her might to hold on to Marley.
There are just a few things about Marley you need to know. He eats three times a day. If he looks starved, feed him again. Of course all this food has to go somewhere.
Use the red shovel and the blue bucket. Watch your step. Don't worry about the color. He likes mangoes.
Marley's ears get a lot of wax buildup. Once or twice while we're gone, please use cotton balls and the blue ear- cleaning stuff to clean them out. Wear old clothes and try not to breathe.
Marley is an excellent watchdog. And in this neighborhood, that's a good thing. You can rest easy at night, knowing he's on the job.
Thunderstorms are his weak point. Well, one of his weak points. You can give him sedatives if you think a storm is arriving. He doesn't like them, so push them down into his throat as far as they go.
Marley is tearing through the house, terrified. chasing him with a bottle of tranquilizers.
We do not allow Marley to get up on any piece of furniture, chew on anything except his toys, drink out of the toilet - keep the lid closed and the brick on the lid -
- actually, you might want to keep the bathroom door closed in general.
Other than that, enjoy him! Thanks so much. Love, Jenny and John.
And if you need anything during the night, I'm right next door. The blankets are wool. Good heat in them.
Oh, they're electric?
No, not in this house. My brother died in a fire, God rest him.
In this room, actually. It's been re- papered. Good night. God bless. Jenny sits on the bed. The CREAKING is terrible.
Look, I know we haven't had sex since... you know. But there's no way we're breaking the streak tonight.
No kidding. 'Cause it's not just God watching. God, his mother...  .and apparently his best friend.
It's July, but I think I can see my breath.
I can't feel my toes. John gets out of his bed and into Jenny's. Much SQUEAKING.
My God. Shhh.
It's not the mattress. It's the shrieks of over-sexed souls in hell.
You wanna join them? He looks at her.
Are you sure, because we don't have to...
I can't help myself. Knowing it hasn't happened in this house in 50 years is a turn-on. They roll into each others' arms, the bed squeaking.
Maybe she's deaf...
No... He jumps as Mrs. Butterly slams the teapot on the table.
Tea?  I'm off to Mass. Mrs. Butterly leaves. John and Jenny look at the other guests. They smile bravely.
Wow. Any of you hear her bed squeaking last night? I hope she hits confession before Mass, that's all I can say.
Hey, Debby. So how was-- -Debby hurls the binder of instructions at him.
There were eleven thunderstorms while you were away. Eleven! And you were right. He doesn't like thunderstorms!
Okay, yeah, wow. Eleven, huh? That is a lot.
And those goddamned dog tranquilizers don't work!
Did you give him four at a time?
I mean on humans! She hobbles to the car, tries to get in with her crutches. They frustrate her and she ends up beating the ground with them until she throws them down. She's losing it.
 And just so you know, I am a dog person. But that's not a dog! That's evil with a dog face! That's also humping your leg! Lose my number!! And she gets into her car and guns it, splintering the crutches as she peels out. John and Jenny, watch her go, turn and look at the front door. Marley's face in the little square window at the top, peeking out at them.
It's only thunder... John goes back to work. We hear more THUNDER, and Marley starts howling, knocks over a floor lamp... John looks off towards the bedroom...
Jenny?! Can you help me out here? I got twenty minutes to file this column! We follow John as he gets up from his desk, heads towards the back bedroom...
Jenny? We follow him into the room, an anxious Marley close at his heels. She's not here, he turns around just as she steps out of the bathroom, smiling...
Luck of the Irish... She holds up a pregnancy test with a clear BLUE line, her exuberant face lit up by a FLASH OF LIGHTNING. John goes to hug her, as Marley HOWLS in the b.g., we then...
SUPER: "Nine Months Later."
He chews through a sock. He drinks out of the toilet. He works on chewing through the plastic dog food tub. Another night and he'll be in. He chases a fly. Finally he goes to his bed on the floor of the bedroom. He settles himself down to sleep. He yawns, he scratches, he closes his eyes. He snores. And then - He wakes up, suddenly alert. He looks over at Jenny. He gets up, sits by her side of the bed, and waits. Suddenly Jenny sits up, rests a hand on her stomach.
She catches her breath, leans over to John.
John. John, wake up.
What?
I think it's time.
It's okay.
Ow! Suddenly, A GROWL. They turn to see Marley glaring at John.
It's okay. I'm not hurting her. Jenny MOANS again and now Marley's eyes narrow. He takes a step towards John.
Please don't scream, honey. He'll kill me.
You put the car seat in this weekend, right? They won't let us take the baby home without the car seat installed.
Like I'd forget that.
Come on, Marley. Help me out here. Do what you do best... Unsure, Marley licks the box.
No, don't lick it, eat it! Destroy it! You can chew through drywall, man! I know you can do this! Marley catches on. He starts shredding the box.
Car seat's in!
Ready?
Yeah. You? Marley barks from the back seat. They both turn and look at him. What's he doing here?
Okay. Here... Stay. Be good. Please, God. No storms. Stay.
Hey, boy.
Here's the thing: in a couple of hours, we're gonna bring the baby home. And you'd be doing me a really big favor if you didn't freak out.  I'm gonna try and do the same thing.
Hey, boy... let's go outside...
Hello, Marley... She crouches down, gives him a kiss, rubs his back. And that's when we hear a small, birdlike chirp and the dog freezes. Where'd that come from? We hear the coo again and this time Marley lifts one paw in the air like a bird dog, and points in the direction of the car seat that we now see sitting on the bed...
You know what I think would be a bummer? If he ate the baby...
She moves to the car seat and turns it around so that now we see the baby for the first time. She smiles at Marley...
This is Patrick, Marley. Jenny unbuckles Patrick from the car seat and crouches down beside Marley and lets the dog sniff the baby's toes, then up his legs, finally his diaper which puts Marley into a Pampers stupor, the Holy Grail of aromas and Marley's eyes glaze...
See, he's not gonna hurt him.
No, but I'm gonna have to put a lock on the diaper pail.
I have the quote right here-- Patrick crawls over Marley, who's supremely patient as Patrick takes a fistful of his eye.
Well, have legal call them again and get a release for it. They told me it was on the record-- Marley-- Patrick, that's his eye-- No, not you, Karla, just get the release. I'll call you back.
To where Marley waits, eagerly vacuuming up the cereal. It continues to RAIN CHEERIOS and we then BOOM BACK UP and see that Patrick is now eight months old, laughing as he throws the cereal onto the floor...
I need to go in tomorrow for a few hours, see my editor. Think you can watch the baby for me?
Sure. John looks around the room. The place is a disaster area.
Remember us?
You mean, those younger, skinnier better looking people? Yeah, I think I remember them. Vaguely.
Well, I miss them. He turns back to his work. She looks at him, sets her pad aside, comes up behind him, puts her arms around him.
They're still here. He looks up at their reflection in the window, not so sure.
Honey, don't go out there.
Stay here. Call the police.
He said not to scream or he'd stab me, but I screamed... And John sees the blood on her shirt. He takes hold of her.
Okay okay okay, I've got you...
At work...
Jenny'll call her...
Marley sniffs at the ground, growling more and more intensely. We hear SHOUTING, "He went that way" as several neighbors take off running. Marley lifts his head and he, too, bolts into the night---
Marley! NO! But he's gone and John has to stay with the girl. We hear SIRENS as she slides down the car and sits down on the ground. John sits down beside her, holding onto her...
All this time we've been living here, I never got your name.
Lisa.
Well, you're gonna be alright, Lisa, the police are on the way... John looks off, wondering where Marley is...
I can't find him anywhere.
Maybe we should get in the car, drive around.
I'll get the keys... John's coming into the house when a police cruiser pulls to the curb in front of the house. A POLICEMAN gets out of the driver's side, then opens the back and leads Marley out. He bounds up the walk to the two of them who greet him...
Marley!
Where were you?
We found him outside the 76 station on Radford. He had the guy cornered in the men's room.
So you caught the guy?
Anyway, the neighbors all said he belonged here, but none of them wanted to drive him, so...
Thanks for bringing him home.
Helluva dog. John nods as The Officer heads back to his car. Jenny crouches down and gives Marley a big hug and a back rub...
My hero.
Stay. --and starts to unhook Patrick from his car seat. Marley bolts out of the car and heads straight for the house...
Marley!
Hi. The Realtor smiles awkwardly at him.
Can I see a set-up, please?
Certainly.  First home?
No, we live up in West Palm, over on Churchill?
Ooooh. Well, I think you'd find this neighborhood to be quite a pleasant change. And now Marley bolts past him into the house, tracking wet footprints all over the floor, jumps up onto the REALTOR.
Oh... my... hello...
Hey, who's dog is that?
Jenny? A wet Marley bounds into the house, heads for the back. John follows.
Jenny is crouched on the floor when John appears in doorway.
Hey. You alright? She stands up, smiles the best she can.
I'm fine. Where you guys been?
I wanna show you something.
What?
 A house.  It's a little pricey, but I think we can do it.
John, I know we've talked about it, but I'm not sure this is the right time.
And when would the right time be, Jen? After one of us gets stabbed in the driveway?
C'mon, honey, we're cramped in here. This was supposed to be our three-year house, remember?
I know, but we can't afford to buy a new one.
Sure, we can. With both our salaries--
Yeah, about that... I don't think I'm gonna be able to keep working.
What? Are you sure? She steps away, revealing the counter where FOUR PREGNANCY TESTS are lined up, all with the same result: Positive.
Very.
Already? I mean, how old's the one you got?
About eight months.
Jesus. Haven't you heard of birth control?
Yeah, well, sometimes it doesn't work. You know what else doesn't work? The one about how "A dog will stop your wife's biological clock."
Hey, I'm not the one, keeps getting her pregnant. John gives him a look, sees Arnie heading into his office, takes a breath and gets to his feet.
Wish me luck.
I'm sure he'll give you the raise.
How do you know?
He always gives me one. John just shakes his head, starts for Arnie's office.
Why should I do this, why are you worth it?
Because I'm doing a good job?
Are you asking me?
Well, since I took over, the column has doubled in readership...
So you are doing a good job.
Yes, sir.
So why not make it permanent?
You mean, like forever?
That's what the word "forever" means. Yes.
I just had this idea about myself, you know, that I was a reporter.
Yeah, well sometimes life comes up with a better idea. Tell you what. You make it a daily column and I'll double your salary. How's that?
Hey, Lisa.
Hi.
Yeah.
well, I don't blame you. I just thought I'd come over and say-- But Marley comes running over and she crouches down to greet him. She hugs him a while...
I'm gonna miss you. John watches as she holds on to him a bit longer, thanking him as well. John turns away, starts back for the van to give her a moment. She stands up.
Where you moving to?
Boca.
Huh.
Huh... what?
Nothing. I just... never pictured, you know, a guy like you moving to Boca.
A guy like me?
Yeah, you know, young, cool, whatever.
So you think I'm young and cool. And you're not just saying that because I saved your life?
Actually, a paramedic named Josh saved my life.
Right. Well, take care, Lisa. Oh,
He reaches into a moving box, pulls out a chewed-up black Converse.
I believe this belongs to you.
Thanks. I'll have to chew up the other one to make it match.  Have fun down there.
Yeah. It's gonna be great.
Shhh, honey. Come on. John follows now...
Is he wet?
No. And I can't get a burp out of him. I think it's colic.
Want me to drive him?
We can't do that every night. From the other room, we HEAR Patrick CRYING, "Mommy!"
Oh, Jesus.
I'll do the washer.
Any ideas?
Can you take him? I just need a minute to myself. John takes the baby and instantly Conor starts crying louder.
Happens every time.
You just need to spend more time with him.
It's okay, I'll do it.
I'm doing it! It's fine! You tell me to spend more time with him, I do it, and then you take over because I'm not doing it right.
I don't want you changing him when you're mad.
I'm not mad! He hears himself, lets her change the baby. She takes him, sits down with him in a rocking chair, tries to nurse him...
Conor, come on... Conor, please... She finally stops trying, rocks the chair, looks helplessly at John.
I don't know what's wrong with me. Mothers are supposed to be able to give their baby everything.
He's just colicky, Jen. He'll grow out of it.
Okay, here's an idea, you stay here and I'll go to work while he grows out of it. He holds up his hands, what does he say to that. She looks up at him a moment.
I'm just tired, alright? Go on. She then resumes trying to nurse the baby. He walks out of the room. She rocks back and forth, looks up with a dark expression as she hears his CAR START.
It's post partum depression...
Her hormones are all on tilt and she's depressed. It happens. After my fourth kid was born, I'd wake up, find my wife just staring at me with a mallet in her hand. I thought she was gonna kill me in my sleep. I still do...
Yeah.
Huh. That usually works. Arnie gets off the desk, says to the Photographer:
Alright, Janice, make him look pretty. The man's an official columnist now. Arnie moves off and the photographer looks up from her camera and smiles at John. He smiles back. She keeps smiling... so does he... she finally indicates his hair...
You have a Barney sticker in your--
Oh-- thanks. He rakes his fingers through his hair, grabs the offending sticker, looks at her...
I must look like hell... I don't think I've had a full night sleep in two months.
Stress?
Kids. I got one with colic, and another, can't make it through the night without coming into my room every two hours.
Well, I think you're holding up great. You look cute.
Really?
Yeah, like a cute, exhausted Dad. It's adorable. John just nods stupidly, the dagger so deep in his heart, he'll never reach it. She smiles at him.
You certainly look a lot better than Jerry ever looked. I tried to get him to take a new picture, but he liked the one they took the day he started the column, nineteen years ago.
Nineteen years, huh... And just when he thought one dagger was brutal enough, his expression goes really pensive. And on that look, we see a FLASH as she takes his picture and go right to:
I'll get him. John leaves the room. Jenny sits there.
Mommy? Jenny wakes up on autopilot.
Okay, honey, let's go back to bed. She leads him out of the room. And a second later Conor starts crying. John lies there a moment, then gets up.
Jen, you okay?
I'm fine.
You ruined it! Bad dog! She leaves the room and John looks at the dog.
You just had to eat the book? What, have you got some kind of death wish? I'm telling you, you better chill, or she'll kill you. Right after she kills me.
Look! Jenny turns and sees A BUS, with John's picture on the side, an advertisement for his column. She watches it pass.
Daddy!
Uh-huh. I see him. And she goes back to loading the car.
Stay. She now lays down and closes her eyes. A moment of peace. And then, somewhere in the distance we hear a faint BEEP BEEP BEEP as some truck backs up. Marley lifts his head, perks up his ears and listens. Please don't bark, dog. Please don't bark. BEEP BEEP- And Marley BARKS, bolts out of the room... Jenny opens her eyes with a start as Marley runs barking through the house, we hear something CRASH and break O.S.
And now Conor's crying.
Why do you do this?! Why do you wreck everything! Why?!! She hauls her hand back to hit him, but hesitates, and just shoves him away from her and storms into the other room for Conor.
Why's Marley out in the--
I want that dog out of here.
Okay. I'll take him out. She looks up at him.
I want you to get him out of here and keep him out of here.
What'd he do--
I mean it, John. I want him gone. I want him gone for good.
A sad John posts a "DOG FOR SALE" sign. A CO-WORKER sign and smiles.
That the dog in your column? Obed ience school? Necklace in the poop? Good luck.
John watches the guy walk off, scribbles a new it up. This one reads "E F D TO GOOD HOME." comes up to John.
You giving up the dog? i thought yo u loved that thing.
Jenny wants him out.
That's harsh, man.
I don't know what else to do. She's really unhappy. Maybe the dog is just one too many things.
They're all unhappy. Trust me. Well... who knows? Maybe you'll get lucky and nobody'll want him. John just nods, thinks about that. Sebastian glances around, then takes John aside.
Listen, there's something I gotta tell you.
What?
I just gave Arnie my notice. John looks over at Arnie's office, the door's closed.
He's not too happy about it. He called me an ungrateful quizzling and threw a stapler at me.
You going over to the Post?
I'm going to New York. Sebastian smiles. John doesn't move.
The Gray Lady came courting last week.
I know who you're talking about.
You don't seem happy for me.
I am. I'm just in shock. I mean, I'm in Florida because of you. Woodward and Bernstein. Remember? That was the idea.
Yeah, that was the idea before you decided to be the Andy Rooney of South Florida.
I didn't decide to be anything--
Exactly. Boom. That hurts John. They stand there a moment, considering each other, then.
Look, man, you're happy doing your thing and I'm not trying to piss on that. I mean it, you're good at it. I just wanted you to be the first to know. That's all.
Smart boy.
Yeah, uh... Monday, then. Give us weekend.
Up to you. John looks at the dogs in the back, all of them trying to get his attention.
These are all responses to the column you wrote last week. John thinks a moment...
One where you said you may have to give the dog away.
 Oh. I assume they all want me to keep him.
No. They're all saying they'd take him. Arnie moves on and John stares at the letters.
You can't lo any more of these, ok ay? Because they s e 're not gonna keep getting you more, and I won't be there to look for them... He looks at Marley standing there wagging his tail.
You're gonna be fine, alright. I'll just be different. Maybe e it'll, b better, nobody poking your yanking your tail. Who knows? Could be better.
He's all packed up. Patrick will want to say good-bye, but Conor's too young
You can't do this.
What do you mean? Three days ago, you were pretty clear--
I know, but you can't do it. I won't let you. You can't give away Marley.
Okay, wait. I'm lost. You told me you didn't want him around. What's happened?
The fact that you would have done something like that, for me, that you love me that much...
well, that blows me away. And we're not doing this. It was wrong of me to ask. He comes over and sits down beside her.
I got overwhelmed, John. I mean, be. one tells you how hard it's gonna
Which part?
All of it. Marriage. Being a parent. It's the hardest thing in the world and no one prepares you for that. No one tells you how much you have to give up.
It's not your fault. It's just something I have to figure out. But Marley going, that won't fix anything.
 Okay.
I made reservations at Sunny's. Thought we could all sit outside.
Sounds perfect.  Thank you.
To a perfect day with my boys.
A blonde Boca Trophy wife, with a poodle on a jeweled leash, shrieks excitedly as she meets up with another woman, same type, with another small fluffy'dog. The little dogs yip. CAMERA BOOMS DOWN to underneath the table to Marley who has spotted the poodles and is now locked and loaded.
Marley! John hurries after the dog; Jenny stays with the boys.
Marley, no! - and suddenly, he is jerked back. John has tackled the table Marley's dragging. Marley YELPS and lands on his bac k, then quickly rights himself, tail wagging, the happiest dog in the world. Everyone surrounding them on the plaza has frozen silent. They all stare at Marley and the Grogans. The poodle jumps out of her arms and runs to its distraught owner. Jenny's head is in her hands, her shoulders heaving...
Jen, you okay?
Boys, say hello to Colleen... We PULL BACK TO REVEAL: Patrick, now six and Conor four, standing beside the bed with John. They all crowd around "mom" as the NURSE now takes a picture. On the FLASH, we...
John, telephone.
Mom, look what we did!
Hello?
Who was on the phone?
Philadelphia Inquirer. She looks at him.
They're offering me a job.
What'd you say?
I said thank you very much, but I'm happy where I am. I mean, it's a big change, Florida to Pennsylvania.
Yes, it is.
Anyway. John smiles at her, then goes to his sons...
C'mon, guys, back to work... She watches as he kneels down beside the boys, resumes digging alongside them.
Well, that's part of the job. To get reader response.
re? You notice any recurring themes the
Yeah. We've got a lot of cranks in Broward County.
Yeah. Including ygu the last couple months.  ".. .if he doesn't like it here, he
should move"... "more whining resident malcontent"... "is there anything good about Florida according to Mr. Grogan?"
Arnie, I'm a commentator. We've got issues here. Over-crowding, crime, immigration tensions, runaway
Florida hasn't soured, John. You have.
I don't know. Maybe it's turning 40 next week, or maybe...
Maybe what?
Maybe I'm sick of my column. I don't really think I'm all that interesting.
Are you kidding? You're the comic voice of South Florida's middle class. You're a national treasure. Well, a regional treasure. Municipal treasure, for sure. You're just a little burned out. Why don't you take a coupweeks off? Consider it my birthday present.
Happy birthday, honey! And he kisses Jenny. Hugs the kids. Jenny watches him as he i en t e d , distracted. shakes hands, hugs their friends, disor
John , closes John petsdthe dog, rta es up , g greets John. k
Forty. Jesus Christ... He looks at Marley a moment, then...
Hey, buddy, you and me are the same age.  You got more grey hair than me, though...
Okay, who wants to help me here? Kids? Marley, you too. Jenny squats down with the cake, and John and his kids start to blow out the candles.
One, two - And then Marley jumps the gun, takes a huge bite of the cake, lit candles and all.
- three.
Okay, tell the truth, were you really surprised?
Yeah. Thanks, Jen. She sits down on his lap...
You want your present?
Is it what you gave me last year? Because that was real nice-- She hands him an envelope.
Happy Birthday. He opens it, pulls out an AIRLINE TICKET.
A plane ticket?
To Philadelphia. So you can talk to the editor of the inquirer.
That was months ago--
I called the editor last week. They'd still like to meet you.
Jenny, I couldn't do that, uproot us. We've got our friends, the schools...
First of all, you don't even have the job yet, it's just an interview. Second of all, you don't have that many friends.
Thank you. What I was trying to say, is that our life is here.
Baby, I got news for you, our life is wherever we are. And you're not happy here anymore, doing that column. You're restless, John. I feel it. I feel it when you read Sebastian's articles every day. And I feel it when you sit out in the driveway an extra five minutes before you come in.
I'm forty, Jen. Seems kinda late for that.
Not so late. She stands up in the dark, lifts her dress over her head.
What're you doing?
We're not old, John. We can still surprise ourselves. He sits there stunned as she now dives into the pool. She surfaces and smiles at him.
Hey. You want your other birthday present or not?
John can't get out of his clothes fast enough. He leaps the pool and swims over to her, kisses her.
We're not old. And then we hear ANOTHER splash.
Uh-oh... And a moment later Marley's head goes bobbing by.
Hey, Gorgan. John smiles to himself, walks over.
I just wanted to say good luck up there.
Thank you, sir.
Also, there's a good chance that every piece of advice I ever gave you, may in fact be total crap.
I appreciate it just the same. They stand there a moment, awkward. Then...
This would be where a mushier guy would tell you he's proud of you, give you a hug, and send you on your way.
Really glad you're not that guy, sir. Arnie nods, goes back into his office and shuts the door.
Look. There's Marley! THROUGH THE WINDOW they can see Marley's crate arriving at the plane on a luggage truck. Marley is asleep, heavily drugged. Conor starts banging on the window.
Hey, Marley! We're up here!
He can't hear you with the engine going.
 Not to mention the tranquilizers. I think he's already reached his cruising altitude.
is that a dog?
Maybe, I don't know.
Marley's Sad. Marley's our dog. He's with the suitcases. John smiles weakly at the Passenger.
What an imagination, huh?
Marley! Marley jumps into a pile of leaves, scatters them everywhere, rolls over onto his back and knocks over a rake, which falls and breaks a basement window.
And... we're home.
Hey, John. Settling in okay?
I'm fine, thanks.
Good. I want you to meet Billy... He indicates the twenty-something guy beside him. John and Billy shake hands.
Billy's gonna show you the ropes.
You're the Florida guy, right? The dog columns...
Well, some of them were, but--
Cute stuff. C'mon, I'll show you around.
What? And then Conor and Patrick burst into the room.
It's here!
Okay, time for lunch!
I'll bring this in. Go on up. The kids and Marley head up to the house. John drags the toboggan up the hill. He pauses at the top and looks down at the toboggan run. He gets on the toboggan.
Honey, what're you doing?
I can't remember the last time I rode on a toboggan..
Exactly. He starts sliding down the hill. Marley runs for him as he builds up speed...
Marley, no!
John! The creek! The toboggan bumps over the crest of a small hill and sails through the air, landing with a crash on the iced-over creek. John and Marley tumble into a snow bank on the opposite side. A moment. But then Marley jumps up and wriggles in delight. John painfully unfolds himself, checks for injuries. Marley comes up and romps with him.
Hey... wanna do it again?
John!
That's alright, pal. I won't tell.
A moment later, a yellow dot appears on the horizon. As it gets closer, Marley gets more and more excited as we now see that the dot is a SCHOOL BUS. It pulls to a stop beside Marley. Conor and Patrick get off and are greeted by Marley.
Hey, boy. We HOLD WIDE ON THEIR BACKS as the boys start up the road towards home, Marley bounding between them, nipping at Patrick's backpack.
Hit me, I'm open! Patrick throws the ball to John who catches it, mocks stiff- arms his way to the front steps with the boys now hanging off him as he gives the play-by-play...
My God, look at Grogan-- two three- hundred pound linemen literally hanging off him, but he won't be denied! And now Marley jumps on them.
Ohhh, out of nowhere, a brutal hit from the Strong Safety and the unthinkable happens... GROGAN GOES DOWN... And he collapses with the boys at the foot of the. steps, Marley all over them, licking whatever faces he can get. Colleen comes out the front door, stands at the top of the steps...
Mommy says dinner and take off your shoes.
Alright... c'mon guys... They all get up, start up the steps. Marley follows, takes one step when his hind legs buckle. John looks back at him.
You okay, boy? C'mon... Marley tries the second step and again his legs give out. He looks up at them...
What's wrong with him, Daddy?
That's right. Football just took it out of him. C'mon, let's give him a hand. And now the three of them go to Marley, help him up the stairs.
Too much color.
Yeah, I mean, don't get me wrong, it's a good piece, but... you're reporting now, John. I want you to tell the story, I don't want you to be in the
I'm pretty sure I don't mention myself--
The point is, I still feel you in there. John sits there, thinking about that.
All I'm saying is: less you, more facts.
Marley! They all begin waving their hands in front of their faces.
I think someone needs to go out.
It's pouring out there... He grabs his slicker and heads back out...
Marley! Now Jenny appears in the front door.
What's wrong?
He's not coming.
Marley! John starts off into the dark...
He can't be too far...
He'll show up.
He's just out exploring. You know how much he likes the woods.
Bobby says dogs, when they're going to die, they go away to do it. That's what his beagle did.
And that's true... for beagles. But not labs like Marley. He's just out there making trouble somewhere. Don't worry...
Okay. Well, if you see him... thanks. He hangs up, goes to the window.
I'm gonna get in the car, maybe drive
 Jenny.
It's okay, boy, it's okay...
He's on an IV for fluids and a sedative.
So what happened?
His stomach twisted. He ate or drank something quickly, took in a lot of air and his stomach flipped. I got a tube down which let out some of the gas. I think i untwisted it.
So he's okay...
For now. But once this happens, it almost always happens again. And if it does, there's not gonna be anything I can do. He's too old for that kind of surgery.
What if it doesn't happen again?
More than likely, it will.
But what if it doesn't?
I just think you should prepare yourself that he might not make it through the night.
One percent? What's that number based on?
Mr. Grogan--
I'll tell you what it's based on: regular dogs.  Lady, we are so far from 'regular", you have no idea.
We're just gonna have to wait and see. If he makes it through the night, I think we'll be alright. He notices the album.
What're you looking at?
Your old columns. He's in a lot of 'em.
John rotates the album for a better look.
You saved these?
Every one. He looks up at her.
Even on the crappiest day, when the boys were driving me nuts and the laundry wasn't done and a hundred other things were hard, I knew I had this.  Five minutes of you. Sometimes they were funny and sometimes they were sad, or silly or whatever, but they were all you. And for those five minutes, you made me feel better. She gets up, comes over to him, leans down and kisses his head. Then, as she starts out...
You should read them. They're pretty great.
Hello?  Alright. Thank you. He hangs up, sees Jenny now standing in the doorway, tying her robe, looking at him anxiously.
He's coming home.
Marley's back! John opens the tail gate just as the kids come rushing onto the porch, Marley's tail wagging as he's lifted out of the car and set on the ground, the kids now surrounding him...
Nice place. How long you been here?
Two years, little more. Sebastian sees John looking at all of the unpacked boxes.
I'm in and out of town so much I really haven't had a chance to settle in. I hired a decorator, but she and I got into a thing and it got messy--
Right.
Beer?
I can't, I still got one more interview to do.
What's the piece again?
Right, you told me that. So you're down in Philly now, huh?
Just outside. More space for the kids.
Whatta you got, five now?
Three. Here's a picture of everybody... John pulls a photo from his wallet, hands it to Sebastian.
 Yeah, she's great. And that's Colleen our youngest...
What's with the ladybug get-up?
 Oh, yeah, that's a funny story. She had done this pageant at her preschool two weeks before, but she didn't wanna take off the costume, plus Marley went ballistic for the antenna which is why it looks like he's trying to eat her head.
Uh, well, actually I'm headed back home later today.
Oh.
In fact, I should probably get going...
Alright.  Good seeing you, man.
For sure.
 Oh, hey, be sure to check out the Delegates Lounge at the U.N... Great Mojitos, really hot interpreters.
Thanks for the tip. And John goes out the door. Sebastian takes out his blackberry, dials...
Hey, it's Sea-bass. What're you up to tonight?
Hey, it's Sea-bass. What's going on?
Hello? Anybody home? He sees a note , and peers into:
Where Marley is up on his hind legs, eating something off the counter. John puts his keys down, but Marley doesn't react. John sneaks up behind him. Marley keeps eating the grilled cheese sandwich off the plate...
Marley? Hey, boy. Marley looks up briefly as if he heard something, but then returns to eating. John is right behind him. John reaches out and touches Marley, and Marley jumps, totally guilty. Then he turns and greets John.
What's the matter, boy? You didn't hear me? Huh? He looks at the dog a moment, thoughtful, then...
Let's go for a walk.
Come on, boy, just a little further to the top... Marley comes up, panting, eyes wet and happy. John looks at him, can see how tired he is.
You know what, this is a good spot right here. John looks out at the valley below, settles down onto the damp earth beside Marley.
Let's just sit for a while. The two of them sit there, looking out at the beautiful countryside below. John strokes Marley for a moment. Looks at the grey hair, the tired eyes that now look back at him.
Hey. So... you're gonna tell me, right? When it's time? Because I don't wanna make that decision on my own. So you just let me know when you're ready, okay? Marley rests his chin on John's arm.
Okay.
Marley?  Have you seen him?
He's not up here.
I guess I could move his bed down here. John sits down beside Marley.
Man. He's always slept with us. Now he can't even make it upstairs.
He looks pretty comfortable to me.
Hey Jen? why don't you grab a blanket for me, too. She nods, starts back up the stairs. John grabs a pillow from the couch and lays down beside Marley.
This is a good spot. I may never sleep upstairs again.
Hey. Scooch over. He looks up and see that Jenny's brought a blanket. She lies down with them. John puts his arm around them both. Marley's tail begins gently pounding the floor.
Just like old times.
It'd be twice a week. Six hundred words.
And what's the subject?
Everyday stuff. The stuff we all go through. But funnier.
I don't get it. I thought you came here to be a reporter.
I did, but I think we both know that isn't me. I'm a columnist. A good one. A SECRETARY sticks her head in the office...
John-- your wife's on the phone. She says it's important...
I'll be right there.  Think about it.
I can't get him back inside. He's lying out there in cold... and he won't move...
Patrick came home and we got him here. Dr. Platt said if he's comfortable, leave him here for a while and see. But he's no better. John kneels down by Marley, who looks at him but doesn't wag his tail or lick his hand. He runs his hand over his coat - then over his stomach, the dog flinches.
I'm taking him in. The kids all come into the room, Colleen carrying a stuffed sheep.
Is he sick again?
Yeah, he is, honey. But I'm going to take him to the hospital and they'll try to make him better. Conor bends down, nuzzles Marley's face.
Get better, Mar.
You can take Lamby, okay? (she puts the stuffed animal next to him) But don't chew her other ear off. Patrick leans down, hugs Marley tightly and whispers right in
Goodbye. When he looks up at his father, John can see that Patrick's crying, that he knows what the other two don't.
You wanna walk? He sets him down gingerly. Hesitantly, Marley walks over to the tree that countless dogs have peed on, sniffs it, then looks around. John looks around, too. It's a crisp spring night in Pennsylvania. Takes a breath...
Nice night, huh? Marley looks around, then looks at John. There's something in his expression. John nods, knows what he's saying.
Okay, boy.  Okay. John, his heart breaking, bends down to carry Marley up the front steps of the clinic.
I did everything that worked before. But no luck. There's still surgery,
--not strong enough.
There's blood in his stomach. The lining might be compromised. I don't know what we'll find if we go in there anyway.
Can you give me a minute? I need to... I need to call my wife.
I know. Jenny nods as tears come. They stay on the phone, quiet, just being with each other. Finally:
I love you, John.
I'll give you some time. She goes. John stares down at Marley. Takes the stuffed lamb out of his pocket, places it under a paw. When John puts a hand on his flank, Marley's eyes flutter open. His tail THUMPS gently.
Hey, buddy. He pets Marley's head, runs his hands all over Marley's body. His coat, still shedding. His tail. He takes up each paw, each ear, remembering and memorizing at the same time. He leans down, puts his nose on Marley's neck and breathes him in. Then he goes around, squats down so he's on Marley's level. He looks into Marley's eyes.
Listen, you know all that stuff we always said about you? What a total pain you are? The world's worst dog? Well, don't you believe it. Don't believe it for a minute. You loved us, every day, no matter what. And that's a pretty amazing thing. 
Look, I don't know where you're going from here, but you remember this: You're a great dog, Marley. You are a great dog.
He won't feel a thing. He'll just slip away. Are you ready?
 We're ready. Dr. Platt inserts the needle into the I.V. and presses the plunger.
He's gone. FROM ABOVE, the dog on the table, the doctor discreetly going to the side, and John laying his head next to Marley and putting his arms around him as we now...
He's wrapped in his blanket...
So he'll be warm.
You guys want to read your letters?
Mine is a picture. Of me and Marley. And grasshoppers. And ice cream. Mommy wrote what I said. "Dear Marley. I will never forget you, forever." And those are kisses.
It's beautiful, honey. He'll like it. Drop it in. Conor? Conor reads his piece of paper.
"Dear Marley. I loved you all my life. I hope you like heaven and that there's lots to chew on. Your brother, Conor Richard Grogan." John puts his hand on Conor's shoulder as Conor drops in the letter into the grave.
Patrick? Do you want to say anything?
He knows.
I'd like to give him something. Jenny reaches behind her neck and unclasps the gold necklace John gave Jenny when she first got pregnant.
This little necklace has been on quite a journey. John smiles at her, remembering. So much shared history.
Your dad gave this to me to celebrate the beginning of our family. But you know what? Our family had already begun. She looks into the grave, gently sets the necklace atop the blanket, lets her hand rest there a moment, then stands up.
Good-bye, Clearance Puppy.
