 O'Reilly!
 Yes, sir?
Dammit, Radar, wait till I call you! Tell Major Burns...
One of the surgeons from the day shift will have to stay on duty tonight?
Yes, dammit, and...
O'Reilly, what is it? (appalled at the thought) There aren't more choppers coming?
I'm afraid so, Colonel.
We've got too many wounded for us to handle now! Get on the phone right away and...
Yes, sir, I'll see if I can reach General Hammond in Seoul for you. You think he'll finally break down and give us two more surgeons?
I'm one of 'em.
 Ayuh. I'm the other then.
My name's Hawkeye Pierce.
Duke Forrest.
You got directions?
Ayuh, only it's early, I need a drink to wake me up.
I got some.
Make it yourself, or is it real?
Georgia, where I come from, it's real if you make it yourself. But I been buying from the Yankee Government since they put me in this soldier suit and give me a rate.
Tax-free booze. It's about all you can say for army life.
 Where you from with that crazy way of talking?
Crabapple Cove. Maine.
Damn! That must be about as far north as you can get.
Pretty near. What do you know about the outfit we're going to?
C.O. is Colonel Blake. Lieutenant Colonel Henry Braymore Blake. One of them regular army clowns. Push you around so it's hard to get any decent work done.
We got to head them off, right at the start. Push them around first.
I think we already caught their eye.
What's the initials 'MP' stand for, Hawkeye?
Shore Patrol, Duke. Let's go!
Must be the Famous Curb Service Whore
 I done my shopping in Seoul last night.
Curb service is right.
Well, there it is. Jesus!
The spot we picked to spend the winter. Maybe we ought to look a little harder.
What do you think of that piece of scenery, Yankee boy?
Finest kind. We'll sit where we can get the best view.
I'm Colonel Blake. You fellows just passing through?
Nope, we're assigned heah.
Y'all were short a couple cutters and we're what the Army sent.
Don't you know the first thing you're supposed to do at a new post is present yourself to the commanding officer with your orders?
Reckon so, but we been boozing all day and you work up an appetite.
 You're welcome to one of these, whatever they are.
 They give you copies to burn.
Good. You've both been working close to the front.
 Never this close.
They've hit us on Cherry Hill. I just got word. We have our slack periods but when the action starts, you'll have more work in twelve hours than a civilian surgeon does in a week.
Colonel Blake, have no fear. Hawkeye and Duke are here.
 That's right, pal. You just sit up front and sign the mail, and leave the cutting to us.
I may need you to go to work practically immediately. But meanwhile perhaps you'd like to meet some of your fellow officers.
Just one for a start.
The blonde dish.
If you mean... (looking toward Lieutenant Dish) She is a lieutenant in the Army Nursing Corps, Captain.
Okay, Lieutenant Dish. I guess she's already... involved with somebody here.
They've all tried. Nobody's got to first base.
Why bother with first base? I'd go right for the home run.
This the new talent, Henry?
Captain Pierce, Captain Forrest... Father Mulcahy, the Catholic Chaplain of the area, and Captain Waldowski, our Dental Officer.
Better known as Painless Pole.
We all call him Dago Red.
I'm Duke and he's Hawkeye.
Glad to know you. Drop in at my clinic anytime you feel like playing a little poker, or even if a tooth is bothering you.
Poker sounds great. When do you play?
He said anytime. Day and night, seven days a week. The players change but the game never stops.
 You'll be living with Major Burns. O'Reilly!
Sir?
Don't do that, Radar! You make me nervous.
Sir?
Don't come so quickly when I call. I want you to take these officers...
To Major Burns' tent. Yes, sir.
Stop that, O'Rielly!
Sir?
Oh, get out of here!
Yes, Colonel.
'Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death... '
Jesus Christ!
One of his ancestors, I think.
'I shall fear no evil for Thou art with me...'
Thou. For Thou art with me. (sees Duke and Hawkeye, jumps up) Welcome, welcome, welcome!
What the hell's going on here?
This is Ho-Jon, my houseboy. Our houseboy. I'm teaching him English.
Where's he gonna use that kind of talk? 'The valley of the shadow of death.' Wait a minute, Ho-Jon... (rummages in barracks bag) I got something for you.
 Little light reading matter. Just right for his age.
 Well, southern boy, I suppose you want the sack that's convenient to the door.
And gets the wind every time it opens. No, thanks. I'll take that one.
Let's choose for it. (finds baseball bat, hands it to Duke) You toss.
 Part of your education. Always use your own bat.
Two-man job. How much blood has he had?
Second pint.
Duke...
This kid's ready but we won't know all the damage till we get in and see what's happened. What have you got?
Nothing can't wait. Shall we check it out with the Major?
Naw, I already found out. The only thing he doesn't like about being in charge is making decisions.
Hot pack.
Isn't this ridiculous, Doctor? Six months I've been here and there are still times when I can't stand it. I just go to pieces.
There's nothing ridiculous about it. (turns her face up to his) A kid like you...
Thank you, Captain Pierce. (her voice full of need) It's been so long.
No trouble at all.  Hawkeye.
How did you get called that?
'The Last of the Mohicans.' Only book my father ever read.
You're getting a workout, you and Captain Forrest, your first night.
It isn't always this rough?
Oh, no. We have dull stretches every week or so, thank God, when there's nothing to do after midnight.
They don't have to be dull. I mean if you and me put our minds together...
Our minds?
For a start. I just have a hunch... well, it isn't entirely a hunch...
You're an attractive man.
You have a certain modest charm yourself.
 But I'm married.
Something else we have in common.
Very happily married.
Same here.
And absolutely determined to be faithful to my husband. Do we have that in common, Captain?
It's a matter of definition. Faithful in spirit, yes.
I don't make the distinction. But the sex urge is a powerful force. In women just as much as men.
Ayuh.
You'd think now, with only six weeks before they ship me back home, it would be easier. But it isn't.
Of course not.
It's terribly hard. Sometimes the temptation is just too much.
Then why not, as long as it wouldn't hurt anybody...?
 You helped me pull together when I needed it.
Now that's what I call real pretty. We can close up here and go into his belly.
He can't take much more time on the table.
So we got to cut him fast. I figure from the X-ray it ain't just the spleen. We also got to snatch his right kidney.
 Captain Murrhardt, please report to the Colonel's office at the earliest opportunity. Captain Murrhardt.
Good morning, Captain Pierce and Captain Forrest.
You can cut the bow.
I have not understood what you means.
 That. It's out of the act.
Because is not democrash? All peoples created equal?
Hey, you been sneaking some reading outside the frigging Bible!
I have great interest for America, his peoples and his custom.
Good, because we got a fine old American custom we want to teach you. You know what these are?
Gin. I know, yes.  Dry... (has trouble with the word) ...vermouth.
Is that liquor?
Finest kind. We're training Ho-Jon to be a bartender. Join us?
But first will you please kindly shut the goddam door?
I don't drink intoxicants.
 Christ Almighty, I think he means it!
We been had.
I don't believe it's right for you to involve a boy who's not seventeen years old yet...
The door, Frank, the door! Where you from anyhow, Alaska?
 Wisconsin.
Same general idea.
Officer all sleep now, yes? And I go wash clothes.
Right, Ho-Jon. See you later.
So long, Ho-Jon.
You make a mean martini, kid.
Our Father who art in Heaven Hallow'd be Thy name. Thy kingdom come, Thy will be done, On earth as it is in Heaven...
Give us this day our daily...
You ever caught this bread, and forgive our syndrome before, Duke?
...trespasses as we forgive those who trespass against...
Us. Lead us not into...
...No cases over the age of temptation but deliver us eight. from evil. For Thine is the kingdom, the power and...
 Onward Christian soldiers...
 He ain't finished!
...And for our young men on the field of battle, that they may return home to their dear ones...
Come clean with us, Frank. Were you on this religious kick back home, or did you start to crack up here on the post?
 ...And for our Supreme Commander over here and our Commander-in-Chief in Washington.
How long does the show go on, Frank?
It gets longer all the time. Now I have your soul to pray for, and Captain Pierce's.
Hey! That's a Colonel's office!
 Ayuh. Just who we're looking for.  Henry, you got to do something!
We've stuck it out for a whole week now... Pretty girl.
We sure don't aim to cause any trouble... Yeah, she seems to grow on you.
You don't aim to cause any trouble But?
But we strongly suspect something will happen to screw up this splendid organization of yours if you don't get that sky pilot out of our tent.
Your tent?
Yeah, maybe move that nurse in. She don't seem the type to keep you awake praying.
 I have been in this Army a long time. I know just what you guys are up to. But there are limits...
We'll find out what they are when you throw us out.
That's all the commitment you're offering me?  Or do you have some more extravagant gesture of cooperation?
No, Hawkeye just said it all.
Except we forgot one other small thing.
What's that?
The chest-cutter.
Yeah, that's right.  You better get us a chest-cutter before there's trouble.
This outfit needs somebody who can find his way around the pulmonary anatomy when the bases are loaded.
And it's the ninth inning.
Forget it. No Mash unit has a chest surgeon and we aren't about to get one. Your housing problem I'll give some thought to in the next couple of weeks.
Yes, O'Reilly?
How you, Radar?
They're running behind in the OR, sir, and the Preop Ward is all jammed up. Two choppers and three ambulances full.
 You boys'll have to go to work early.
You fixing to add overtime to a twelve- hour day? The union ain't gonna like it.
You work those kind of hours, you got to have rest. Which you can't get with somebody jabbering away on a direct line to heaven.
 Major Burns will be out of your tent in twenty-four hours.  Tell them Captain Pierce and Captain Forrest are on their way.
About that chest-cutter...
I'll try, d-d-dammit! You can't ask any more than that!
We don't want any more than that.  Right now.
Cold?
Even if I weren't.
Maria...
Oh, Hawkeye, I don't think I could stick it out these next few weeks without you.
Nobody here.
You understand why I still can't...
Captain Pierces...
Hi, Ho-Jon. How they goin'?
Finest kind. Captain Forrests say you better haul ass home quick. We got new chest-cutter in our tent.
 Now I got you for a witness, I'm going to try again. So far all I dragged out of him is he's from Bahston and he's only been in the Army two months.  Where were you when they drafted you?
Home.
I mean, what were you doing? Were you a resident or on a staff someplace?
That's right.
Where?
Hospital.
Which hospital?
Back home.
Is there any reason why we shouldn't know the name of it?
No.  Or why you should.
 I think I've seen this nut somewhere.  Haven't I?
If you don't know what you've seen, why should I?
 You ready to switch to a little tonic we generally take us about this time? Ho-Jon...
Don't you use olives?
Where you think you are, boy? They probably never seen a olive in this country.
 That's the front up the road a few miles. We have to get by without some of the comforts of home.
I like an olive.
Jesus to Jesus and eight hands around! Duke, did I ever tell you how I beat Dartmouth by intercepting a pass?
Sixteen times.
We didn't have a chance, little Androscoggin College against the Big Green, but there was this blizzard and we held then nothing nothing till the last twenty seconds. Then this great passer of theirs let one go, snow and all...
Lucky you didn't have your mouth open or it would have gone down your throat.
He's Trapper John! Only man in history who ever found fulfillment in the ladies' can of a Boston and Maine Railroad car! When the Conductor caught him in there with his Winter Carnival date, she screamed: 'He trapped me!' What have you been doing since those days, Trapper?
What does he have to do? A score like that, a man could just live on his reputation.
 Ball.
 What gives over there?
Must be Painlees Pole Day in the Shower Tent.
 You met him. Walt Waldowski, the Dental Officer.
Nice guy, for an enamel surgeon.
What are they peeking at? Captain Waldowski in the shower?
Part of him. Painless is the owner and operator of the Pride of Hamtrack. That's where he comes from... Hamtrack, Michigan.
Best equipped dentist in the whole goddam Army. Care to have a look, a man with your background?
Way we hear it, the Pride is supposed to have run up the highest lifetime batting average ever recorded in Wayne County.
Ah'd purely love to see it angry.
This kid looks like a loser. Maybe we better get the bead-jiggler to put in a fix.
 Call Dago Red.
...May God remit unto thee the pains of the present and future life, open to thee the gates of heaven, and bring thee to everlasting life. (makes the sign of the Cross) May Almighty God bless thee, Father, Son and Holy Ghost.
 Duke...
Slowing down!
Going up. Nice work, Red.
There's sort of a built-in prayer for the sick man to get well, but of course that's not the basic intention.
I don't care about the intention. I just know your Cross Action is a plus on our side. I've seen it come through four times.
And you've had a natural four times in a row in a crap game. Right? Does that mean...?
Not without lots of praying and kissing the dice.  It's a different ritual but it works the same.
What do you think, Trapper?
Me? I was raised a mackerel-snapper...
...But I turned in my knee pads.
Ho-Jon, give the Father some more martini.
Just a taste, Ho-Jon.  I'd better get to the point... what I came here for today.
You came because we asked you, for a drink.
We wanted to tell you how you were helping us with your fixes.
Well, sure, but I'm also worried about Walt Waldowski  Painless. His poker players got in an argument and asked him for a ruling, and he said what difference did it make, it was just a card game.
I guess I'm getting a toothache I better have looked at.
Take a seat, Hawk. We can use a fresh pigeon.
Got to see the man about a tooth. Where is he?
 Call. With a pair of kings. (to Hawkeye, pointing to smaller tent attached) Inside.
 How can you call with one lousy pair? Ought to be a house rule against mind reading.
If a man isn't a man anymore, what's he got left to live for?
Tell me the whole story, Walt.
There's this native broad works in the laundry. I don't know if you've noticed.
There's only one worth noticing.
You noticed. I wasn't going to fool around over here. I've got these three girls I'm engaged to back home...
But I had this feeling I ought to make the effort. To test myself. And I flunked.
What did you have to test, for God's sake... the dental Don Juan of Detroit?
Don Juanism is just a cover... I've been reading up on it. (emotionally overcome, turning away) I'm a fake, I'm a fraud, I've been living a lie!
Painless, you mustn't talk that way. It's a lot of crap. Cover for what?
Homosexuality.
Now I know that's been my problem since I was a kid. But it only caught up to me last night.
You've been drawn to other males? Since you were a kid?
No, never in the slightest.
Just in dreams?
Or in dreams either. I repressed it completely. Classic pattern of inhibition.
That's what you've been doing all these years with every dame you could lay your hands on? Repressing your real self?
But it's all over now, and I can't face it. Imagine if you found out you were one, you wouldn't like breaking the news to your wife. Well, I got the same problem multiplied.
You don't have any problem. You've got thirty good years ahead of you, easy. Maybe you'll have to cut down as you grow older, get along with just two fiancees, but...
No, one thing I finally know for sure, I'll never function with a woman again.
There ought to be a law against dentists reading. Matter of fact, I thought there was. Anyway, this is an obsession. He can't be persuaded out of it.
 He's comin' this-a-way! The jaw- breaker!
Y'all just act natural.
Get out the scotch, Ho-Jon.  Don't mention the sex thing unless he brings it up.
How you, Walt? We was just fixing to have a nightcap.
 Pour one for Painless.
I thought you guys ought to know. I'm going to commit suicide.
Miss you, Walt.
He said it for us all, Walt.
How about leaving me your record player?
How do you figure to go? Forty-five between the eyes?
Powerful sloppy.
Reliable though.
That's really what I came here for. See what you guys recommend.
 Well, I'm sure my colleagues will agree there are a number of dependable measures for extinguishing the vital forces.
Black capsule.
The black capsule. Finest kind. Thank you, Dr. McIntyre.
What is it?
Easy, pleasant, never-miss ride.
In the direction you want to go.
You guys got any black capsules?
For a buddy we got whatever it takes to stamp out the last spark of life.
How they goin', Losing Preacher? What do you hear from the Pope?
You talked to Walt?
He's parted his moorings.
We're throwing him a Last Supper. We came to invite you.
The Painless Pole plans to cross the Great Divide tonight and we need your help to straighten him out.
What do you want me to do?
Put in one of your fixes. Walt knows he's loused himself with the Church, but it's part of our plan to make him think he has the keys to the kingdom. Which he will think if you grease the skids for him.
I don't think I can give absolution to a man who's about to commit suicide. It's a mortal sin.
What is, Red, the intention or the act?
 I believe it takes both. I'd have to look it up.
Just use common sense. Your job is preventing sin, and the way to do that is give him your best Cross Action.
Or you can let him knock himself out. You personally'd be sending him to his grave.
An eternal damnation.
 I don't know. I'm not sure what the Military Vicar's office would think...
They sure as hell won't hear about it from us.
Y'all come here to say a final goodbye to our old friend Walt. But maybe it ain't so final. Maybe he's just going on ahead into the Unknown to do a little recon job for us all.
I just got this one thing to say. Nobody ordered Walt to take on this mission. He volunteered, for certain death. That's what we award our highest medal for. That's what being a soldier is all about.
Only one man here can add anything to that.
Receive, my brother, this food for your journey...
 ...The body of our Lord Jesus Christ, that He may guard you from the wicked enemy and lead you into everlasting life. Amen.
What the hell's that?
Coffin. Yours.
I'm not even dead yet.
You're a pretty heavy guy to lug around. Be a hell of a lot more convenient for everybody if you got into the box as soon as you've taken the capsule.
 How do you take it?
 With whiskey. A good swallow first and a big one afterwards. Speeds it into the bloodstream.
You guys sure this'll do the job?
We wouldn't give you nothing but the best.
We stand behind all our work.
You want it straight? Medical history records no instance of anyone taking this particular prescription and surviving.
Here goes nothing.
How much time do I have?
Just about enough to say goodbye to everybody.  Line up over here, men, if you want to pay your last respects. Keep moving and file on out when you're through.
I wonder, if Red's fix swings it for me, what's heaven really like?
It's a bedroom where a man is always at his peak and doesn't have to take any time outs.
And all the angels are built like Lieutenant Dish.
Drink up, Walt. One for the glory road.
Thanks for coming, Maria. (takes her arm and leads her through exit) Sorry it had to be so late.
I couldn't have slept tonight anyhow.
You're leaving tomorrow?
In less than twelve hours I'll be on my way.
That's when the real strain starts. Three weeks on a troopship.  Poor baby.
 Dear, sweet Hawkeye.
Though I guess who it'll really be rough on is your husband.
You're on his side all of the sudden?
A man would be more considerate. He wouldn't come home to his wife a nervous wreck.
How would he avoid it... as if I needed to ask?
It could be a purely impersonal thing. What matters is the therapeutic value of relieving your tensions.
You should have been a marriage counselor. (drawing his head closer to hers) But I'll show you what's wrong with your theory.
Do you think anything between us could be impersonal? Or pure? You better forget logic, because you're proving why I shouldn't go to bed with you.
 I didn't mean with me.
You're asking for somebody else?
It happens to be a matter of life and death.
A man is going to die if he doesn't have my fair young body?
Precisely, Maria. Tonight you have the same privilege that comes on rare occasions to the chief executive of some state or nation... the privilege of restoring life, by one tender act of mercy, to a doomed fellow creature.
He should come to now for a while, but he's got so much dope in him by tomorrow he won't know fact from fantasy.
You think he won't.
What do you care? You'll be on your way to Japan.
I'm fond of Painless, and I'd feel terrible if anything happened to him...
It's your decision, Maria. I don't want to high-pressure you.
I'd be crazy to think my virtue, such as it is, was more important than his life...
In fact I'd rather not try to influence you at all.  Let's just go in and take a look, and then you think it through for yourself.
One last look at him... (raises sheet, uncovering Painless to the knees) ...still alive... (slips raised sheet into Dish's grasp) ...the whole man.
My God, Hawkeye, I never realized... I never even dreamed... (becoming aware he's no longer at her side) Hawkeye! Hawk...
Morning Painless. How they goin'?
Big day. Two jaws to rebuild.
 Get me one c.c. of adrenaline and a cardiac needle.
What's a...?
Never mind questions. Get them!
Captain Williams, Major.  Major Houlihan is our new Chief Nurse.
 This what you wanted, Major?
 No, you idiot. I said adrenaline. And a cardiac needle.
 I'll ask a nurse!
It's too late. You killed him, Boone.
You got a moment, Frank?
You all through work for the day?
Yes, I am. Why do you want to know?
Make sure you got time to sleep this off.
This is the...
T-Trapper!... C-C-Captain McIntyre... what the hell... ?
 That's a captain?
 What's going on? Who started this?
You mean who hit who?
Yes, that's what I mean.
I did. First and only blow. So far.
 He wouldn't have touched me if I'd had my guard up. Let us settle this between ourselves, Colonel. Alone.
What do you think I'm running, an English boarding school? McIntyre, you're under arrest. Confine yourself to quarters, pending an investigation.
If you say so, Henry. But remember my claustrophobia.
 I deeply regret this unfortunate incident. We try to remember we're a military organization.
I certainly would have thought so.
 What's wrong with you?
I don't know. I must have lost my punch. I didn't think the son-of-a- bitch would get up.
Stop acting like a colonel, Henry. You know Trapper wouldn't sock him without a good reason.
There's no reason good enough for one medical officer to strike another.
That there Frank Burns is a menace. Whenever a patient croaks on him it's either God's will or somebody else's fault.
This time he did it to a kid who's simple enough to believe him. Why don't you dump the mother, Henry? He creates more work than he gets done.
I should fire him because he got in the way of Trapper's fist? No. I've put up with a lot from you guys, but now I finally have to take disciplinary action.
Christ. All of a sudden it's West Point.
What are you going to do with him?
Well...  I was going to name you Chief Surgeon...  To consult on both shifts, yours and Frank's.
Hey, that's great, Henry! Good thinking!
First decent idea you've had in a month.
Now I'll have to wait at least a week. If I announced it tomorrow, after what our new Chief Nurse saw this afternoon, they'd hear her yelling from Seoul to Washington.
Captain Pierce, would I be imposing...?
Honey, nobody as pretty as you could ever impose... please sit down. Coffee?
Captain, I've been observing the nurses on your shift. But naturally your own opinion is more informed than mine.
I'm glad you feel that way, Major, because you see it's a team effort... doctors, nurses, enlisted men... and I feel responsible for my whole team, and I want you to know I'm satisfied with them.
All of them?
That's right. We work well together.
Major Burns is far from satisfied.
That don't surprise me. If you're a good observer, you must have observed by now that Frank Burns is a jerk.
On the contrary, I've observed he's not only a good technical surgeon, he's a good military surgeon. And that includes how a man dresses and how he bears himself and his sense of what it means to be an officer in the United States Army.
And his track record, that don't count? Look, honey, when you watch the two shifts try to notice which one does the most work with the least fuss.
I've noticed that both nurses and enlisted men address you as 'Hawkeye.'
It's my name. Maybe that sounds silly to you but...
That kind of familiarity is inconsistent with maximum efficiency in a military organization.
Okay, Major, honey.  I'm going to have a couple shots scotch and go to bed. I'd normally ask you to join me but obviously you're a female version of the routine Regular Army clown. And that turns me off, so just leave my outfit alone and we'll get along fine.  See you around the campus.
 I wonder how a degenerated person like you could have reached a position of responsibility in the Army Medical Corps.
Sister, if I knew the answer to that I sure as hell wouldn't be here.
 Attention, everybody. I have an announcement. 'Effective today, Thirteen April, Captain John S. McIntyre, U.S. Army Reserve, is appointed Chief Surgeon at 4077th Mobile Army Surgical Hospital. Henry B. Blake, Commanding Officer.' (informally, on his own) Nice going, Trapper.
There's no point appealing to Colonel Blake. They've got him bewitched.
No. The only thing to do is write General Hammond. (knowing perfectly well she has her own tent) But it's hard to find a place around here for a private discussion.
I have a tent to myself.
People will talk.
I don't mind. If we give them something to talk about.
I think it's a marvelous letter.
We're a good team.
We think the same way.
It's supper time. (as casually as he can say it) But you're not hungry are you?
Ravenous. What about you?
 Well, sure, if you are, Margaret...
Anyway, we want to get this letter off.
The sooner it reaches him, the sooner we can turn this into a tight military outfit.
Hail to the chief! We-all got a responsibility, men. He's crowned like a king ought to be, but he can't just walk to the Mess Hall by himself. He has to be carried by native bearers.
Good thinking, Duke. How about it, Ho-Jon? Can you round up a few of the boys?
I don't get what you mean, native bearers.
Bear is the same thing as carry.
It's the other word I'm not sure.
 Never mind. Forget it.
 A native is someone who is born in a particular place.
And if I go to New York, the natives there will carry me? I don't think so.
I don't think so either.
I don't think I should have opened my big mouth. Sorry, Ho-Jon.
 That's okay. Live a little, learn a little.
 I'd like to try out that one over there.
Very well, Your Majesty. (starting toward Frank and Hot Lips) Congratulations, Frank. He picked you.
No, no, that one.
Oh, you want to play it straight?  I guess I owe you an apology.
Godless buffoons, all of them.
 It's that disrespect for you, that's what I can't forgive them.
Oh, I'm used to it. What makes me sore is how they behave towards you. (pulling her into a tight embrace) They ought to be grateful to have you. (kisses her, his hand vanishing beneath her skirt) I certainly am.
 And I'm grateful for you, Frank, especially with those boors around. We've grown very close in a short time.
It isn't just chance, I'm sure of that. God meant us to find each other.
His will be done. (then, in excited response to an inflammatory move on his part) Da-a-arling!
 Frank... Frank... Frank... Frank... Frank...
What'd'y'all reckon he's doing to her?
Casting her horoscope.
 Give me your lips, love. Set me on fire.
 Plug it in, boy. We got no call to be selfish with a show like this.
 I want you to make love to me all night. I don't want anything to take you away from me.
 Nothing can, with the Colonel gone. I'm in charge tonight.
I like a man who is in charge.
 Frank...
Don't stop now! Please...
Wait a second...
I can't... couldn't.
Good morning, Colonel.
Morning, Radar. How were things?
Splendid, sir. No problems.
Morning, Captain.
Morning, Colonel.
 Morning, girls. Good morning Major.
 Good morning.
Hiya, Frank. Hiya, Hot Lips.
No, leave all the rowdiness to them. Calm down, drink your coffee.
Tell me, Frank, is that stuff you're tapping any good?
 Hawkeye and Frank Burns. That's encouraging.
I was just asking...
Shut up or I'll tear you apart.
Can you make out what they're talking about?
I can try, sir.
I only wanted to know what she's like in the sack. Do those big boobs hold up or are they kind of droopy?
 Hawkeye's asking the Major's opinion on a point of anatomy.
Also I'm curious whether she's a moaner or...
Say that again and I'll kill you.
The Major wishes to have the question repeated.
You know, does she go in for sound effects...?
Help! He's gone mad! Help, somebody!
Fair's fair, Henry. If I get into Hot Lips and jump Hawkeye Pierce, do I get to go home, too?
It was really nice of you to take me along.
I didn't have much choice.
You really say the cutest things.
Yeah!
 Get the check on his urine sample right away.  You'll have to wait around for a while, young man. I need some more information before I talk to you again.
 You please excuse... (as Hawkeye turns and sees them) I have been making examination of this young man to find if he will be soldier in our army.
Yes, I know. Hi, Ho-Jon. How did it go?
I don't liking it at all, what I hear when I listen to the heart. And such a blood pressure for so young a boys. Is frightening.
I'm sorry to hear that. You think he's unfit for military service?
At first is no doubt. But then I am seeing on his paper he work in American hospital. And I think there are so many drugs in such a places, he could take some by mistake.
Why would he do that?
Who is knowing? But the drug I have find in his urine is solving all mysteries. By tomorrow will be gone his fast heart and high blood pressure. So I think maybe you will like to tell him goodbye. Okay?
Sorry, Ho-Jon. I didn't think they'd be that sharp. But I'm still going to start the ball rolling for you to go to college in America when you get out. My old school, Androscoggin.
 I came within about ten yards of you. You know something, Trapper, the way we been going, if we ever got to see a real golf course again, I bet we could burn it up.
As far as the greens maybe. I don't know if my putting would come back or not, without some practice.
 That's him on the right.
That's Captain McIntyre?
 The Lieutenant's flown up from Seoul just to find you.
You're Captain McIntyre?
That's what the Army calls me. Stick out your tongue, take off your shirt and tell me where it hurts you.
'...Proceed immediately to Kokura, Japan...'  Do you know what this is about?
There's a GI there whose father's a Congressman. A grenade went off in training and they think there's a piece of it in his heart.
 These his X-rays?
Yes, sir. Apparently some big chest surgeon in Boston told the Congressman the only man to take care of his son was Captain John McIntyre.  I suppose there could be more than one doctor with that name...
 General Hammond says I can take anyone along I need to assist me. Want to come?
I'm not so sure the goddam thing's in his heart.
'Course it isn't, but how many chances do we get to go to Japan? With our golf clubs.
Garrada there!
What?
Let me translate. I've had some exposure to the language. The young man is from Brooklyn and he wants us to vacate this vehicle.
 But weren't you supposed to meet the surgeons who are going to slice up the Congressman's son?
You guys are the quacks?
You betcher ever-loving A, buddy- boy.
Poor kid. Goddam Army.
But besides the operation, we've got to get in at least eighteen holes of golf.
So let's haul ass, Sergeant.
Goddam Army.
Look.
Beautiful. What do you think? Should we stop and play nine holes now and operate on the kid later? If he's still alive.
Goddam Army.
I think we ought to operate first, no frills, get through it on the double. Then we'll be nice and relaxed on the course.
Good thinking.
Goddam, goddam Army.
Where's the Congressman's son at, honey?
Ward Six.
Hey you can't go in there! Who are you?
I'm the pro from Dover and this is my favorite caddie.
Well, you can't go in. No till you tell me your business and I check with Colonel Merrill's office.
 Well, if you must know...
 Hold it. If this soldier enforces her own orders. I'm ready to take her on. Anxious. Single combat.
 Colonel Marril's office.
 Don't worry, son. That's Captain McIntyre, and he's the best chest surgeon in the Far East and maybe in the whole U.S. Army. He'll fix you up fine. Your daddy saw to that.
Just like we thought, it's a routine problem. Nurse, who's in charge of operating room preparations?
Sh-sh-she is.
 We're surgeons, ma'am, we're here to work. All we want is our starting time.
 Look, Mother. I want to go to work in one hour. We're the pros from Dover and we figure to crack that kid's chest and get out to the golf course before it's dark. So find the gas-passer and tell him to premedicate the patient. Then bring me the latest pictures on him; the ones we saw must be forty-eight hours old by now. And tell the kitchen to rustle up some lunch. Ham and eggs'll do; steak would be even better. And give me at least one nurse who knows how to work in close without getting her tits in my way.  You're going to have to move quicker than that. I said an hour.
Got it.
I demand an explanation!
 Get that dirty old man out of the operating room!
I'm Colonel Merrill!
Beat it, Pop. If this chest gets infected, I'll tell the Congressman who did it.
Okay, I'm closing up. Everybody relax.
 May I have the surgeon's name, please?
He's the pro from Dover and I'm the Ghost of Smokey Joe.
Save that crap for the rest of the clamdiggers back home.
 Did I ever tell you about Me Lay Marston?
Your high school friend who went around saying 'Me lay, you lay?' to all the young females in the community. As I remember, you said it was quite a successful approach.
Well, he wouldn't score more than once in seven or eight tries, but the important thing was he didn't waste time socializing. Anyway, Trapper John, this is Me Lay.
The real Trapper John? The one who threw you the famous pass and went to greater glory on the Boston and Maine Railroad?
The one and only.
Proud to know you, Trapper. Like to shake your hand if you'll hurry up and get that chest closed. (looks around to make sure the nurses can't hear) You still working the trains?
Planes mostly. May take a crack at rickshaws. How does the direct approach work over here?
I been out of action since I got over here five months ago.
You don't go after the local scrunch?
I'm too busy, actually. Not for the Army, of course, but where I live. Dr. Yamachi's New Era Pediatric Hospital and Whorehouse. I'm serious. The guy has this crude hospital for kids and a whorehouse on the side to finance it, all in the same building.
 What do you do in the joint besides pimp?
That's about the only thing I don't do  that I'm built for. I inspect the girls and take care of some of the kids in the hospital. Sometimes I tend bar and act as bouncer.
Captain Pierce? Captain McIntyre? Colonel Merrill wishes you to report to his office immediately.
Tell him we'll think about it.  I suppose we do have to reach some sort of understanding with the old boy.
 What's the bastard really like?
 Colonel Merrill is a veteran of twenty- five years in the Regular Army, a soldier first and a doctor second. A member of several patriotic organizations, he believes it's America's God-given mission to maintain a foothold for freedom on the Asian mainland.
That bad?  But I guess you're right. We might as well see him. (reaches for golf bag, to Corporal) Got any caddie carts?
What?
 Never mind.
 The address of the N.E.P.H. and W. Why don't you meet me there when you're through golf for drinks and dinner and whatever strikes the fancy?
Mine's already been struck, and it doesn't have to be very fancy.
 Lead the way.
These the prisoners?
Yes, sir.
They can wait in the Colonel's office. He'll be back in a few minutes.
You men are under arrest!
Quiet! Can't you see I'm putting?
I'll have you...!
Please! (completes a putt, walks over and picks up ball) Face it, Colonel, you don't have us, we have you. Your boys blew this case, we bailed you out. We figure we ought to hang around a day to check the Congressman's kid, and we also figure to play some golf. So if that's okay with you, we got a deal.
And if it isn't, why don't we call Washington on your telephone? You tell your story, we'll tell ours.
 When you make up your mind, get in touch. The golf club is probably the best place to leave a message.
These the longest you've got?
Wonderful. They are looking like they are made for you.
We got to have these to wear with them.  You know, by the time we get all this stuff on, it'll be practically dark.
 Yeah, maybe we ought to...  Hey, who are they?
Your caddies. But perhaps it is becoming too late to start.
 What's your name, honey?
Come on, Trapper. We got to forget golf for today.
I don't know why. As long as it's light enough to see your caddie.
 What's the age of consent in this country?
Which? I do not know what you mean.
Never mind.  Let's take one sport at a time. The place for tonight's is the New Era Pediatric Hospital Et Cetera.
Soup? Rice? What are we doing, beginning all over again?
No, we had a clear soup to start. This is a thick one and you ought to taste it. There's nothing like it back home.
How can I taste it now? We've already had like twelve courses.
You are not wishing to eat more? I bring you most special plum brandy.
I don't want it. I don't want to eat, I don't want to drink. (reaches out and grabs Michiko's ankle) All I want...
 Can you guys take one minute to look at a kid for me?
Now?
 Why can't you look at him?
I have but well, you know, I've been mainly an anesthetist a long time now and... well, I'd like you guys to take a look at him.
What's the story?
Well, one of the girls got careless and two days ago she gave birth to an eight-pound American-Japanese male.
What's wrong with him?
Every time we feed him, it either comes right back up or he coughs and turns blue and has a hell of a time.
 We don't have to see him. Call that halfassed Army hospital and tell them to be ready to put some lipiodol in this kid's esophagus and take X- rays.
But it's ten-thirty at night. We can't get military personnel out for a civilian. A foreign civilian.
Don't give them any unnecessary details. Just say the pros from Dover are on their way with an emergency. And you'd better get the OR cranked up because I got a feeling you're going to pass some gas while I help Trapper close a little bastard's tracheo-esophageal fistula.
Yes, ladies, that's why we got you up. Me Lay, put him down there... (indicating operating table) ...and get ready to start giving him the anesthetic.  We stumbled on this deal. We didn't want it but we don't see how we can walk away from it, no matter whose rules are broken. This baby has no legal right to be taken care of in an Army hospital, though his father was probably an American soldier. But he's going to die if we don't fix him now, tonight. So what about it?
This time I will not be intimidated!
I command that this improper and illegal use of Army facilities cease immediately. Twice you men have forced me into appeasing your aggression by threatening me with what you'll say to a certain Congressman. Well, I don't care what you tell him or anyone else! I don't care if it costs me my command and my whole career in the Army. On this point I stand as a matter of principle, as unshakable as the Rock of Gibraltar.
Me Lay? Trapper?
Is he out?
Like the Rock of Gibraltar.
He's coming to.
Let's get his clothes off quick.
Okay, Michiko.
What the hell's going on?
Please, you no worry, sweetheart. Just keeping close.
 All right, that's plenty. You can put your clothes on, Colonel.
I've been framed!
That's what they all say. But I have photographic evidence here that you're a lecherous old man and a disgrace to the uniform. However, I won't even develop the film if your people watch that baby we operated on like he was the Congressman's grandson. Which for all we know he may be.
Where is Captain McIntyre? I am waiting so long for him.
Give him a few hours, Michiko. Right now he couldn't get up a flight of stairs.
 Captain Pierce and Captain McIntyre! Please contact the message center. Captain Pierce and Captain McIntyre!
It couldn't be good news.
 Where's the goddam message center?
What's the lineup, Major?
Six cases ready for surgery, sir, and four more that just need a little more blood or a little more time for the antibiotics to take hold.
I guess we can handle them, if there aren't any six o'clock choppers. Every time they fly while it's still daylight, they've got wounded that can't wait.
Chopper coming in, Colonel. Two of them, I'm afraid.
Damn.
 And another one, but it's from the south.  There.
This one goes right to the OR. Tell Duke to do him ahead of the busted spleen. (moving on to another patient, a Korean) And this kid can't wait. I'll take him myself, before I get to that ruptured diaphragm.
Captain...  'This kid' is a prisoner of war.
Yeah?
It's an American boy's rupture you're supposed to close.
Listen, we get a deluge like this, just deciding priorities on a medical basis is hard enough. So never mind the side issues.
Duke...
Nice looking kid. Going to be okay?
He'll live if that's what you mean. But somebody better be around when he comes to and finds out there's nothing left between his legs.
Pulse, slow, very little pressure.
Look at that right eye.
Epidural hematoma?
I don't know what else. You've been that route a little, haven't you?
Not enough to be a pro.
 Into the OR! Right now.
Quick, Knocko, get me gloves, knife, hammer, chisel, Gelfoam and a drain.
Okay, give me the hammer and chisel. There are drills you can make nice, neat holes in the skull with, but we ain't got none. (taking hammer and chisel, fortifying himself for the act) So here goes.
What happens now?
We sew him up.
Pulse is way back. Nearly sixty.
We took the pressure off his brain. You know, Knocko, this boy might just make it, and if he does you and me ought to be ready with a story.
What do you mean?
One thing everybody knows for sure that don't know hardly anything else, is how delicate any kind of brain surgery is. So I certainly wouldn't like it if there was somebody going around saying all I did was crack him on the head with a hammer and chisel.
 Get that bandage off so I can see what the hell's underneath.
 Bring him to the OR right on this stretcher. I can't take my finger out. Somebody find Ugly John and get his ass in there.
This one is urgent, Les. Start somebody cutting off his clothes. Tell the lab to come in with a couple of pints of low titre O, and type and cross-match him for five or six more. Get somebody to do two countdowns and start the blood. Come to think of it, get somebody to start rounding up donors, and send some cowboys to Seoul for all the goddam blood they can get. And get that miserable gas-passer in here!
 I'm here.
Good. Get him asleep and a tube in him if you can. His common carotid is cut and I can't do anything with the son-of-a-bitch jumping all over the place.  Find somebody to help me. I got to keep a finger on this or we lose him, and I can't get it clamped with my left hand.
Grab this Kelly, ride it down my fingers and we'll have this mother under control.
What do I do with it Hawk? This is a little out of my line.
Didn't recognize you, Red. When you get the clamp all the way down, open it as wide as you can and see if you can close it on the artery.
I got it! I got it!
You got my finger for Christ's sake. But maybe I can do better with my right hand. (inserts a retractor into wound, puts the working end of it in Dago Red's hands, taking back the Kelly clamp) Pull it toward you. More. Good. (rides clamp down his left index finger and this time he closes it on the right place) There. That does it for now.  We'll keep him right where he is till Trapper John can give me a hand sewing that artery back together.
Fifteenth straight day there've been six o'clock choppers. How long can a battle go on?
You got to relax, Henry. Since the deluge started, you been working in the OR and running the outfit, too.
Best thing you could do for all of us is grab some sack time.
 Radar!
Yes, sir? I've been trying to persuade the Colonel to take some rest.
Well, stop persuading, just make him.
 Yes, sir.  Come along, sir.
Believe me, Henry, outside of us, no one'll even know you're gone.
This kid is pretty bad.
For you, Trapper.
 Okay, but I'll need you to help. Duke, will you take that belly back there? The Australian?
It's in pretty deep.
Yeah, and he's lost a lot of blood. I'm afraid it's hit more that just the lung.
 You'll be okay, boy.
I know. I got the best there is. Captain Pierce and Captain...
Christ, it's Ho-Jon!
Hiya, Ho-Jon. You got a piece of a shell in your chest, but we'll take it out as soon as you've had more blood. Hey, Radar!
 Has that A-negative come from Seoul? We'll need some in the OR.
There isn't any. We keep ordering and they don't deliver.
We got to have at least one pint. It's for Ho-Jon.
If we squeeze him through, I'm going to get him into Androscoggin College.
How about squeezing him through into Dartmouth? If all he wants to do is catch lobsters, he can learn that here.
Dartmouth's too big and too expensive. If he's as good as I think he is, he can move into the big league later. But Androscoggin first.
 We'll need room. The sixth rib goes.
Never mind the conversation. Do it, Dad.
You aspirate the blood from the chest cavity. Damn, there's more of it than I thought.
 If we don't get that pint, he's in trouble.
 Not now, honey. Gobacksleep.
 I got it. Here, feel. In the cava.
I don't feel anything.
Oh, Jesus.
I can't feel it now either. The mother must have gone in.
I don't get it.
It was in the cava and the hole sealed itself off. I must have jiggled it just enough to turn it loose. I can't feel it in the heart or the right pulmonary artery. So it's in the left pulmonary artery.
What do we do?
We'll have to close this hole and make one on the other side.
Be kind of rough on him if there's no blood. Why don't we close up and sit on him a couple of days?
Sure, that's the right way... at John Hopkins or someplace. But how do we know there won't be even more of a jam-up a few days from now? Maybe we won't be able to get to him when we want to. Maybe the goddam thing'll erode the artery when nobody's looking. Our best shot is now.
A-negative. I've cross-matched it.
I though you said we didn't have a drop.
I found a doner.
 How is he?
Nice.
 Arterial silk.
 Ease off on those tapes, and let's see how much it bleeds. (sees a few drops of blood come through incision) How is he?
Nice.
Boys, we're home free.
When will he be able to write?
What's he got to write, for God's sake?
An application to Androscoggin College.
 Colonel Blake here.
 I got news for you, Henry. You've been so concerned about that battle for Old Baldy. It's all over.
 Thanks, General. Thanks for calling.
 He didn't wait to hear who won.
She had this shiny black hair piled up on her head, but later on she let it hang loose and I'll be damned if it didn't come all the way down to her ass.
I've always had a hankering for blonde pussy myself. My wife's hair is a wonderful golden yellow, and this time of year it gets even lighter.
I guess that's why you go for Hot Lips Houlihan.
You know damn well I nearly puke when I look at her. I don't even think she's a real blonde.
How can you say a thing like that about an officer in the United States Army?
I not only say it, I'll back it up twenty buck's worth.
You got yourself a bet, Georgia boy.  You're a witness.
Okay, I'm a witness, but how do you prove who's right?
There's only one way.
It's five minutes into nurses' shower hour. Where are they?
They're coming.
Hey, Knocko, I got those pictures you promised to look at of my kids. You too, Wilma. It won't take a minute.  You can see them too, if you want.
No, thank you. I'm not the slightest bit interested.
Okay, Yankee know-it-all! Pay up!
This isn't a hospital, it's an insane asylum! And it's your fault because you don't do anything to discourage them!
What do you expect me to do?
Put them under arrest! See what a courtmartial thinks of their drunken hooliganism. It started with their calling me Hot Lips and your letting them get away with it. You let them get away with everything! And if you don't turn them over to the MPs now, I'm going to resign my commission and...!
Oh, g-g-goddamit, Hot Lips, resign your ggodam c-commission!
 Tell them I want to talk to all the officers on the post except those on emergency duty.
...These are very serious accusations, and without prejudging the charges against him, I am suspending Colonel Blake from all his duties during the investigation, which I will conduct myself. I will also serve as your Commanding Officer during that time. I shall be calling on a number of you for your individual testimony on the points at issue.
 Gimme three.
At ease. Captain Pierce, you have a seriously wounded patient for whom you are responsible. Yet I find you in a poker game.
You betcher ass, Dad.
What?
One to the dealer.  You're the opener.
Check.
Pierce! That soldier requires immediate attention. I'm a surgeon and I know.
You betcher ass, General.
I'll wager a dollar.
I fold.
See the bet.
Me likewise.
Are you going to take care of your patient or are you going to play poker?
King-high flush.
 I'm going to play poker until three a.m. or until the patient is ready for surgery. However, if you'd like to operate on him yourself right now, be my guest. I get the same dough whether I work or not.
I want to talk to you, Pierce.
There's nothing to talk about, General. You take the case yourself or join me at three o'clock. Either way you're liable to learn something.
He's practically there.
 Please ask General Hammond to join us.
General, at one-thirty when I checked him last, this guy had had less than a pint of blood, and he'd lost two or three. His pulse then was 120 and his blood pressure was about 90. Now, at three o'clock, he's had three pints of blood. His pulse is 80 and his pressure 120. His collapsed lung has been expanded and he's had a gram of terramycin intravenously. We can operate on him safely and we should do it quickly, but we don't have to do it frantically or carelessly.
Now, General, I'm going to sandbag you. Do you think we're ready to get out of this belly?
Obviously you don't think so, and I don't know why.
Well, Dad, we haven't found any holes in the large bowel. They've all been in the small bowel, but the smell is different. I caught a whiff of large bowel, but it ain't staring us in the face, right?
Right.
So if it ain't staring us in the face, it's got to be retroperitoneal. And that, along with the look of the wounds, makes me figure he's got a hole in his sigmoid colon that we won't find unless we look for it.
And there it is.
I'm impressed, Pierce. Naturally, the kind of job I have, I don't get much chance to keep up with what goes on in the OR.
Neither does Henry Blake. But I'll tell you what makes him the best C.O. you've got in any of your hospitals. He leaves all the medical decisions to the men who do the day- to-day work and understand what meatball surgery is.
It certainly isn't Henry's fault Hot Lips Houlihan doesn't like her name.
Or her figger.
She's so square she's even against our having a football team.
You don't think we'd be speaking up for a goddam Regular Army colonel, do you, if it wasn't important? Begging your pardon, General. I forgot.
 Football?
Anybody you replaced Henry with couldn't last. We guarantee that.
I didn't know you had a football team.
Well, it's still pretty much in the talk stage.
We had a team at the 325th Evac last fall. I coached the boys myself.
I think I heard about that.
Now we're working out a schedule of the outfits we're going to play this year. We all chip into a pool and make bets.
Must be fun. But the point we want to make about Henry...
 I'm sure we could find a date for your team. Why don't I take it up with Henry?  Thanks for the drink, boys.
Where the hell we going to get us a football team?
All three of us played for our schools. And there are at least four other guys...
But he's got five times the man-power to draw on.
We can balance that by getting ourselves a ringer. Henry has to say he needs a neurosurgeon and put in a specific request for Dr. Oliver Harmon Jones.
Never heard of him.
Sure you have, only as 'Spearchucker' Jones.
The nigra boy with the Philadelphia Eagles?
He only lasted one season.
On account he got caught in the doctor draft. He was a surgical resident playing semi-pro ball weekends when the Eagles signed him.
How come nobody knows about him? And you do?
I worked with Spearchucker my first month over here, at the 72nd Evac in Taegu. Most of the colored guys know who he is but they're not talking because he asked them not to.
So what makes you think he'll play for us?
We'll cut him in on the bets we make. And still have enough profit to send Ho-Jon to college.
Might make kind of a social issue, not having any other Negro officer.
He can move in here with us.
Now wait a minute, Hawkeye. I come a long way, learning to put up with a couple of crazy Yankees, but...
Don't tell me about your problems, boy. Explain them to Ho-Jon.
If we had closer relations, there wouldn't be any misunderstandings. That's where a football game would help. Between your outfit and mine.
A football game?
Special Services in Tokyo are all for it. They say it's one of the main gimmicks we have to keep the American way of life going here in Asia.
But what about Major Houlihan?
You mean Hot Lips? Screw her.
N-n-no thanks, G-General.
If I can make a suggestion, Coach.
The way I run an organization, any man in it has the right to speak his mind.
In that case, here are ten basic plays. I think that's about all this bunch can handle.
Thank you, Spearchucker. I'll certainly take a look at these. Where the hell did you ever get that name?
I used to throw the javelin.
Listen, we look pretty lousy out there, right?
Well, for college players that have been out of training seven or eight years...
I'm thinking about how we can make more money.  Suppose we bet only part of our dough and keep this big animal out of the game the whole first half and let them roll up some points. Then you could bet the rest of our bundle between the halves and get the General and his friends to give us some real odds.
It's a nice idea. I mean it has style.
It's the only way we can make enough to put Ho-Jon through Androscoggin.
Those two big guys were tackles on the Cleveland Browns, and the redhead played halfback with the Rams.
They can't do that to me!
The bastards outconned us.
I think we could still have a chance.
If you start the game instead of waiting, you mean?
No, let's stick to that strategy till we see whether you boys can do two things. The first is get that halfback out of the game. He had one year with the Rams before the Army got him, but he didn't play too often because he's one of those hot dogs.
What?
When he sees a little running room, he likes to make a show... you know, stutter steps and cross-overs and all that jazz. Also he never learned to button up when he gets hit, so if you two can get a good shot at him once, you can hurt him.
But we'd have to break his leg or something to keep him out of the game for good.
Not necessarily.
As long as there's a pile-up, we can do our bit to encourage his permanent withdrawal from the contest.
It's a technique Ugly John and I worked out in case something like this came up.
 Look at the size of those two beasts.
I don't think I could hurt one of them with a sledgehammer.
You can make them run. They've got the occupational disease of oversized ex-athletes. They're carrying thirty pounds extra apiece. So we run everything wide, wide, wide... make them move more then they want to on every play.
The pro halback is playing safety. Kick it to anybody else.
 Stop him! Stop that man!
 Sure, you just blindfold him first and tie him to a stake.
Hawkeye!
 That's the stuff! Run the hams off those big hogs!
 Okay, don't give them a chance to get their breath. Hawkeye wide to the right.
 Throw it! Throw it!
 Wide to the left. Duke, you're the pacesetter this time.
Don't try to get it far down. Kick it up high so we can get there and surround that son-ofa-bitch.
Yeah, if I can.
 Let's get him this time. I don't think they've got anyone else who can carry the ball.
Get off the guy! He's tackled. You don't all need to jump on.
Time! Time!
Well, he's taken care of. Scratch one hot dog.
You really think we hurt him that bad?
Hell, no, all you did was knock the wind out of him. But he won't be playing any more football today.
 The Trainer has to assist the man, and the moment he lets go of him, the halfback crumples to the floor.
 Sorry. You obviously won't be wanting any more bets.
The hell we won't! You bastards pulled something, I don't know what, but we've been beating you without him. Ane we'll go on beating you!
You willing to b-back that up with odds?
Damn right. Three to one, as much as you want to put up.
General Hammond, sir, has just been informed about the identity of Captain Jones. His ringers recognized our ringer.
 What's the matter?
We may be in trouble, I can't catch my breath. I've got the occupational disease of oversized ex-athletes.
Timeout! (to Referee as latter blows whistle) How much left?
Minute and twenty-five seconds. And that's a first down.
We got to stop them right here.
And get ourselves another touchdown to win. (looking to opponents' huddle) I wish to hell we knew what they were plotting.
 Radar!
All you have to do is ask. (concentrates on the huddle twelve yards away) The quarterback is saying they'll run the old Statue of Liberty. Their left end will come across and take the ball out of his hand and try to get around our left end.
What else?
Everyone's talking at once, but now the captain is telling them to shut up. The quarterback says, if the Statue of Liberty doesn't work, they'll go into the double wing with the left halfback taking the handoff first and then slipping it to the right halfback heading to the left.
 Time!
 You got to be the one. We're all agreed on that.
No, it's too far and we're all too bushed. I just told the referee we're going to try something different. We make the center eligible by...
Me? I can't catch a pass.
You don't have to. We line up with everybody to the right of center except Hawkeye, who drops back a yard just before the snap. At the same time Duke moves to the right side of the line.  That makes you eligible but all you have to do is take the ball right back from Trapper between your legs and hide it under your belly. Trapper, you make like you got the ball, fake to me and keep going. One of the big guys will hit you, maybe both...
No! I only got my GI insurance.
 As soon as that happens, Sergeant, you start walking, not running to their goal line. Remember that, don't run! Come on, we just got time!
What's going on? What the hell are you doing?
Then run for God's sake! Run!
Illegal! Illegal!
We got it, men... Ho-Jon's keep as Androscoggin... if there is such a place. And the big news is, the General wants a rematch.
I'll tell you my news. I'm retiring from football.
Me, too. Y'all just seen me play my last game.
Same here. You can retire my number.
Well, there's one big satisfaction.
What's that, Henry?
I out-coached that General Hammond.
It's a massive one.
Isn't he awful young...?
That's the artery we sewed up last summer. Had to end up smaller, that much easier for the thrombosis to occur.
Pain bad, Ho-Jon?
 I  wouldn't  wish  it  on  a maneating  shark.
 More demerol.
You  must  open  me  up  again?
No, Ho-Jon, we're not going to open you up.
Pair of sevens'll say a buck.
Make it two.
Two dollars to you, Trapper.
Sorry. I'm out.
Henry's got our orders! We're going home!
When?
Any time. Whenever we want.
Be right with you.
You mind if we get out of this guy's brain first?
What's there to do? You found the sliver.
There might be another tiny piece we missed. I want to look around before we close up.
 Perfectionist.
There's no transportation anyway this time of night.
We could steal one of the choppers.
I looked. Suspicious bastards got them all locked up.
Y'all mind the store.
Four goddam months. And they don't even give you time off for good behavior.
 See you.
It's possible
 Hang in there.
Why don't you for Christ's sake get the hell out of here?
That's right.
Sure, my...
 What for?
Oh, certainly, Sergeant. My name is Captain George Limburger, and this is Captain Walter Camembert.
B-E-R-T, right. See you tomorrow.
 I thought we were heading for trouble putting on all these trinkets.
We got to start rehabilitating, Duke, if we want to be halfway human by the time we get back to our wives.
But no short-arm inspection. I'm with you there.
Screw it. We been earning our keep as respectable knife artists. Why should we do work any pill-rolling punk could handle?
Excuse me, Sergeant.
What do you want with those two medical officers?
You can't be serious, man.
The reason they're being shipped home is they're the two biggest fairies in the Far East Command.
Be the longest short-arm inspection you ever held!
They missed the boat.
Glad to help.
This a closed game or you take anybody's dough?
Hell, man, that don't matter. We're loaded. We were big wheels in the black market in Seoul.
Plus running the opium concession for the whole Eighth Army.
Glad to know you. Listen, we're ducking short-arm inspection but our cover isn't going to last long. How would you two boys like to do us a favor? Be Forrest and Pierce of the Medical Corps between here and Seattle.
Nothing to it. You just turn a chair around backwards and rest your chin on the top. You sit there with a big cigar in your mouth and and every now and then, just to show you're looking, you say, 'Don't wave it so close to my cigar, soldier.' That's all you do. You can't go wrong.
I've told you twice to put away that bottle. Now I'll have to ask the captain to come back and speak to you.
Never mind your captain, honey. (takes bottle from Duke and puts it away) I'll take care of mine. Till we land in Chicago.
 Flight 616 for Cincinnati, Knoxville and Atlanta, now boarding at Gate Five.
Let's hear from you, you goddam Yankee. Be nice to see you some time.
Like the Spearchucker said, that's possible. Anyway, it's been an interesting association.
How they goin', Hawkeye?
Finest kind.
