JACK Thankee Killick
In CALAMY Out.
In. It was here. The line is in.
It was there. It was out. Out
In. Tell him Boyle. It was in I say.
Lights out!
Watch there! Watch
- Lifebuoy all's well! - Starboard gangway all's well! - Starboard bow all's well!
How I do hate a lee shore
You think we'll have long to wait? JACK  Intelligence reports had her leaving Boston on the 12th, that should put us at least a week ahead.
She'll be in for a surprise, Sir.
In for a "Surprise". Now that's wit. "In for a Surprise". 'Pon my word I shall have to tell the Doctor.
 Don't put her on the reef, Tom.
I'll try not to, Sir.
What do you have there, Stephen?
The breastbone of a frigate bird. Do you remark its prodigious strength.
I do and I am not in the least surprised, for it reminds me of nothing so much as a ship under sail. See here the bowsprit. Here the mast, and here the backstays running aft.
 Ten pounds sixteen ounces. I am preparing a paper for the Royal Society.
I was thinking when our business here is finished, we will have to put in to Recife for provisions. You may care to take a tour round the forests of Brazil, botanizing and collecting specimens. An anaconda or two. A giant cassowary.
I should like it of all things, Jack. Thankyou.
Killick! Killick there! Strong coffee, and light along my topcoat.
Six bells and all's well.
90 fathoms, white shelly sand.
Four knots, Sir.
Oi reckon as she's liftin' Sir, if you feels like putting your ad down.
Starboard gangway ahoy.
What is it, Vincent?
I heard something. A bell.
Native fisherman perhaps. Mr. Calamy!
The lead, if you please.
Over HOLLOM's P.O.V. we can hear CALAMY sounding the depth.
Sixty fathoms, white sand!
Well. It can't have been a reef marker.
False alarm Mr CALAMY
Enemy on the larboard bow! Beat to quarters!
Where away?
Not two miles distant, Sir.
Mr. Hollom?
I saw nothing, nor heard anything either. Shall I ask them men to stand down?
Lie down! Everybody lie down!
Run out the guns! Marines to the tops, and get that wounded man below!
...C-cast loose now... Um swab. That's right. Run out your guns.
Shot. There's no shot!
Note the time Mr. Watt.
She's out of our range, Sir!
Closer, Mr. ALLEN. You must lay me alongside her at pistol-shot.
Mr. Pullings - bow-chasers to fire as she bears.
Fire on the uproll.
Fire!
 Witchcraft!
Never seen the like of it
Damn and blast you! See to your guns! Fire high! Fire for the masts and rigging!
More sand on the floor, Mr. Higgins!
Wood and Lead! Mr Nagel! Mr Lamb!!
Orlop! We're holed!
Davies! Get those bodies overboard!  Mr. Hollom sir!
Jemmy - leave the damned goat and take Mr. Hollom below.
Aye, sir!
More shot! More cartridge!
Steady... Wait for it!
...wait WAIT! And FIRE!
By all that's holy what is that ship made of?
Belay there ye poxed son of a whore!
You must go below, Sir, you must let me help you below!
Sir....
It's the rudder.
 It's shot away below the waterline!
Why are we not firing?
No steerage.
We're fish in a barrel
He's coming about, Sir.
Should I strike the colours?
I'm afraid there's nothing else for it.
Damned if there ain't. We'll tow her.
Sail trimmers away, Warley, make what sail you can!
Stern-chasers to fire when she's in range!
Fire!
Sharp now with that fancy-line! To the clew line from the reef points, Cully, double up and run her back again!
She's gaining on us.
Start the water, carronades over the side.
Pull! Pull for your lives.
Quiet now. No calls, no shouts. Mr. ALLEN, signal the men in the boats to head due east.
 Starboard haul. And stroke! Stroke!
He's beating inshore.
Keep rowing
I believe we've lost her, Sir.
Pass the word to ship oars
79 STAIRWELL - NIGHT
Three feet of water in the hold, Sir, but the pumps are keeping it from gaining.
Very good, Mr. Lamb.
 What's the butchers bill?
Six dead, thirteen wounded.
 Later.
Who's this - Joe Plaice? STEPHEN  A severe depressed fracture of the skull. I am not sure he will see out the night.
Mr. Blakeney?
Just a broken arm, Sir.
I will do everything possible. I know you were close to his father.
One moment Jack let me look at that brow of yours.
Its a scratch.
I will tell you if its a scratch or not. Sit down.
How did he find us Stephen? Seven weeks sailing and he happened in darkness on our exact position. Its uncanny. He really is a phantom
Unless she was alerted to our presence, and looking for us. JACK Tosh. How could that be?
The French have their spies, in Britain as elsewhere.
You're saying there are traitors in the Admiralty?
I am saying do not imagine it was a lone privateer who did this to us. He is working for Napoleon himself, with access to all that tyrant commands, overtly and covertly. So do not let defeat weigh too heavily upon you.
...Call her a frigate? Ha! You ask me she's no more a frigate than a painted Dutchman. More like a ship of the line, a two-decker more'n a frigate.
One does wonder what manner of hull she has. Our balls seemed to bounce right off her.
She had the weather-gauge and long eighteens which could hit us beyond our effective range. That's the sum of it
And   40 guns to our 28, I counted the muzzle flashes.
It was an unfair match, no dishonor in defeat no dishonor at all.
 Well, we can patch up our main and mizzen the foresail is too far gone so we'll bend our spare.
Sir.
Mr. Allen is confident, with basic repairs, we can get home as we are... allowing for a stop in Jamaica.
At Port Royal we can haul her into dry- dock, and hopefully get her home without...
We're not going home.
What is our purpose here gentlemen? Why were we sent? To punish a blackguard privateer who has decimated our Atlantic whaling fleet and now threatens to do the same in the pacific. Are we to leave those ships to his mercy and slink back into Portsmouth - another defeat to add to the list. Is that what we draw our wages for? I say we pursue her and pay her back with interest
With respect, Captain, she could be half- way to Cape Horn by the time we're repaired and underway.
 Then there's not a moment to lose.
We're for the Horn.
We're for hell in a hand-barrow if you ask my opinion
I'm game. If the captain says we can take her we can take her.
Can we catch her is the question. And if we do what's different? She'll just hold us off with them long eighteens til she sends us all to the bottom. All for what?
I'll tell you for what, matey. She's a privateer, loaded with all the gems of Araby. Think of the gold. Think of the prize-money.
Hoi there! You men jump to it!
Heave. And heave. Handsomely now. One long pull. Belay!
Two six heave! Two six heave!
Have her placed along the gunwale for now, Mr. Hollar, and the guns moved to that side also.
All clear below!
Damn this wind, Mr. Pullings! The Acheron will be making a hundred and fifty miles a day in this.
Aye, but hugging the coast, and stopping to board the odd merchantman
Down. Down. Stop.
Up again. Then he begins to work on it with his rasp.
 The smaller bit. No. That bit there.
No. No. Not through my nose!
Its alright. William. You were dreaming.
BLAKENEY Joe Plaice told me when you die they sew you up in your hammock with the last stitch through your nose... to make sure you're not just sleeping
You know old Joe, always telling [ ] stories.
Is it true though? [    ] About the last stitch?
Come on, you'll be stitching me in mine first.
Not through my nose. You'll tell them.
 Nor any other part of you.
Is it mending, sir?
No, I'm afraid it will not do.
No. Mamma. Mamma.
It is the laudanum speaking. You will be a regular Nelson.
There. I have never seen a braver patient.
Peter? Is that you? I dreamed they cut my arm off.
You would have died else.
Come. You can still sup your grog with your left. And I shall take your turn at marbles.
Is them his brains, Doctor?
No, that is just blood. These are his brains.
Physician he is, not one of your common surgeons.
Cured Prince Billy of the marthambles and the strong fives, wouldn't look at you for under ten guineas on land.
[   ] Knows his birds and beasts too boyo, show him a beetle and he'll tell you what it's thinking. 105.           THE SURPRISE - DAY
Let us be off, Mr. Allen!
Weigh anchor! All hands to make sail. Mr Hollom!
Bear a hand there you fellows!
Up and down Sir, thick and dry for weighing.
HOLLAR Trice up. Lay out. Sheet home! Hoist away!
Cheerly there in the foretop, our William! T'garnsl sheets! Hands to the braces!
Speed, Mr. Boyle
Ten and a half knots, Sir.
Here we go again: scrape, scrape, screech, screech and never a tune you could dance to, not if you were drunk as Davey's sow.
Is that one I know, or are we breaking new ground?
I am trying to remember that air they played all those years ago at the Governors house in Port Mahon. You remember When we first met. Corelli if I'm not mistaken.
If that is your "A" you are very much so. This is A.
Or Locatelli. pom pom pom pom
All I remember is you being unable to sit in your seat the entire performance.
Aye and you practising apon that poor bishop with your "puddings athwart the starboard Gumbrils" or some such arrant nonsense.
 No. That was off Toulon, during the blockade. At our first meeting they played this:
No. No. Entirely off the mark.   pom-pom- POM I have now
 Or was it something like this....
And pitch 'em up! It's spars and rigging we want!
Three minutes ten, Sir.
Not good enough! We must fire three broadsides to her two. Again!
Mr. Blakeney? Think you can supervise a gun? BLAKENEY As you will. Sir.
'Spitfire', hop to it.
Two minutes five, Sir.
Again!
Out Tompions... Run out your guns... Prime.
As she bears, from forward aft. Point your guns... Fire!!
Two minutes dead.
One minute forty-nine, Sir!
Killick? Killick there. KILLICK appears.
What do you have for us tonight?
Which it's, Soused Hoggs-Face.
Aah! My favorite.
Boneparte Boneparte That red-faced son of an old French fart Hey ho, stamp and go Stamp and go, stamp and go Hey ho, stamp and go
With your permission, Sir, Mr. Mowett has composed a short poem in honour of our mission.
Let's hear it, Mr. Mowett.
Our brotherhood, some old, some new. In blood baptized, in strength renewed. In purpose unified and true. All thoughts of home forsaken. Where duty leads us, there we go. Nor rest nor comfort shall we know. Until the unrepentant foe, is boarded sunk or taken
 Aye! Capital! Well said! Hear him, hear him! 'Sunk or taken'...
Aye and when we do take her we shall give her to Tom Pullings as his first command. If he don't die before then. Bumpers up Tom
 'To wives and sweethearts'.
'To wives and sweethearts'.
And may they never meet.
I believe you knew Nelson, Sir?
Lord Nelson? Yes. I had the honour of serving under him at the Nile.  Mr. Mowett, the bottle stands by you, sir.  In fact I dined with him twice, and he spoke to me on both occasions.
The first time he said to me - 'May I trouble you for the salt, sir?' I have always tried to say it as close as I could [   ] The second time someone had offered him a boat-cloak on a cold night and he said no, he was quite warm - his zeal for his king and country kept him warm.
It sounds absurd, I know, and were it another man you would cry out, "Oh, what pitiful stuff" and dismiss it as mere enthusiasm, but with him you felt your heart glow.
 To Lord Nelson.
Lord Nelson!
You see those two weevils, Doctor?
I do.
Which would you choose?
But suppose you had to choose?
Then I would choose the right-hand weevil, it has a perceptible advantage in both length and breadth.
There I have you. You are completely dished. Don't you know in the Navy you must always choose 'the lesser of two weevils'?
'Pon my life. He who would pun would pick a pocket. De not smoke it doctor?
 Sure there would be some poor thin barren minds that would catch at such a paltry clench.
"...And the righteous shall inherit the earth."
You hear that. He said something. Joe spoke! Say something else Joe JOE Handy with that gasket
 He spoke doctor. Joe plaice spoke
Our captain was very good to us. He dipped his prick in phosphorus. It shed a light all through the night. And steered us through the Bosphorus.
Farewell and adieu you fine Spanish ladies Farewell and adieu to you ladies of Spain...
For we've received orders to sail for Old England. Perhaps we shall never more see you again His singing is appreciated by STEPHEN on the quarterdeck.
What a wonderfully true voice Mr. Hollom does possess.
Come all you thoughtless young men, A warning take by me, And never leave your happy homes to sail the raging sea.
This one's by Colnett, Sir. He travelled with Captain Cook and carried a pair of Arnott's chronometers.
Couple of the men to see you, Sir.
 Show them in. The door opens to reveal NAGEL and WARLEY carrying something.
What's this?
It were Warley's idea, Sir.
I thought she were familiar like, then I remembered where I'd seen her - in Boston, during the Peace.
[   ] In Boston?
Yes, Sir. She's Yankee built. I seen them working on her, something right strange about her scantlings. Then I seen them balls bounce off her an' I got to thinking.
If you look here, Sir. One side opens up.
Mister Nagel here done it just like I seen her - a third layer 'tween the outer and inner ribbing - diagonal bracing, see?
Just like the U.S. Constitution - our 12 pounders couldn't penetrate except at close range.
Killick. Killick, there.
JACK An extra ration of rum for these men, from my private store.
 Which I was saving for Saluting Day, Sir.
Rouse it up, Killick, and a bottle for Mr. ALLEN and me. Let us live whilst we're alive!
He's vulnerable here.
Cross her stern, rake her with a broadside through her length. But how to get close enough? Past those long eighteens. That's the devil of it.
He says they were chased for three days till they finally our-ran her. Forty gun French privateer headed due south.
Capital. Thank him and let us be off.
What did he say there?
A Spanish farewell. "May no new thing arrive." New things being generally by their nature bad.
Do you have a manual of exercises sir.
Exercises?
Physical exercises, to make the left arm as powerful as the right once was.
I think that will happen with usage, at least to a certain extent.
But not completely. I will never be whole again, will I?
No but you will adapt to your new situation
You know my father was a great fighting captain. It was always his expectation I would follow in his footsteps. I worry that with this arm I will now be good for nothing but book learning and philosophy.
Ah. Like me you mean. BLAKENEY  I cannot use a sextant, cannot tie a knot or climb the rigging. Cannot even dress myself. What chance to I have now of even making first lieutenant.
You have every chance. You hear me every chance. Only the other day I heard the captain singing your praises. Your courage, your fortitude in battle, your skill at logarithms and double elevations whatever they may be. And when you are rated lieutenant you shall have someone to tie your bootlaces for you. Aye and help you with your jacket. Here take my handkerchief. I believe we are summonsed to dinner.
Sail on the larboard bow!
Where away?
Hull down, two points off the larboard beam.
She's a frigate all right, but no way of knowing if she be the phantom.
Set studdingsails and top gallants. Then wet the sails and have the idlers placed along the rail.
Is it him, Sir?
Touch wood, Mr. Blakeney. And I fancy she plans to out-run us. Ask Dr. Maturin to join us, he loves a good chase.
Lifelines fore and aft!
Speed, Mr. Calamy?
Twelve knots, Sir!
We're cracking on, eh?
We'll be cracking off presently if he doesn't watch it.
No, he knows this ship. He knows what she can take.
We can just see her topsails. She's made her turn westwards.
I can't vouch for the mizzen Sir, not round Cape Horn. JACK I'll not lose her now. Set a course westwards.
Mr Hollar, rig preventer backstays. Warps and light hawsers to the mastheads.
Better get below, Mr. Pullings!
What, Sir?
Better get some food in you. Before it turns nasty.
You reckon Captain will keep chasing him 'round the Horn with every stitch of canvas flying?
I reckon he'd chase him to the gates of hell if he has to.
And that's where we're all going if he doesn't take in sail.
Strike the topgallants.
Cape Horn, Doctor!
Help them with that mizzen topgallant! You go too, Mr. Hollom!
Man overboard!
Swim for the wreckage, man!
She's broaching!
It's acting as a sea-anchor! We must cut it loose, Sir!
Axes!
Set to then. Set to!!
All hands to the pumps!
He's been at it again.
Who's that then?
The Jonah.
What Jonah?
The deaths in actual battle are the easiest.  For my own part - those who die under the knife or from some consequent infection: I have to remind myself that it is the enemy who killed them, and not me.  Warley was a casualty of war, as surely as if a French ball had taken him.
 At the same time....
At the same time, what?
You know that I wear two hats on every voyage. I am the captains particular friend and supporter, but also I am the ships doctor in which later capacity I am party to....
 On the contrary. I insist on it.
There is talk below decks of turning back. Or rather that we should have turned back some weeks ago. Of course the men would follow "Lucky Jack" anywhere, and usually in the confident expectation of victory. But that of course is the problem.
What is the problem?
That you are not accustomed to defeat Jack. That you have taken it too personally. That chasing this larger, faster ship, with its long guns, is beginning to smack of pride 'which goeth before destruction'?
It's not pride nor anything like it, it's a question of duty.
'Duty', ah yes. The naval signal for end of discussion.
You can be as 'satiric' as you like, Stephen, but I have my orders. She is attacking our whalers. For why? Without whales we have no boot polish, nor any soap, nor oil for our lamps, not to oil our sabres and muskets. Destroying our whalers could win the war for Napoleon. Which is why we must catch this Acheron. As a man of learning surely you can see that.
At whatever the cost?
Any whatever cost I choose to pay. And I will calculate that myself, Stephen without reference to your friends in the ward room.
Cast off.
Belay. Sorry. Sorry. 161    QUARTERDECK
We'll have to go further south, get around this bloody west wind.
How far south?
As far as is necessary, Mr. Pullings. The sixtieth parallel if need be.
Then we upon the globes last verge shall go to view the ocean leaning on the sky from thence our rolling neighbours we shall know and on the hidden world securely pry!
Rise and shine! Show a leg there, tumble up, tumble up - sleepers awake!
Praise be. At last.
Pray what is there to celebrate?
We have made our turn northward, Doctor. We are headed back toward the sun... The officers give a slightly ragged cheer.
...in anticipation of which. I asked Killick to prepare something special.  Killick. Killick there.
Which I was just coming.
Gentlemen, I give you... our destination.
The Galapagos Islands.
'Pon my word so it is. Look: here's Narborough, Chatham and Hood...
That's where the whalers are, ain't it Mr Allen. So that's where the Acheron will be headed.
Mr. Pullings, if you'll permit me, a slice of Albermale. For you Doctor, Redondo Rock.
And, with a fair wind behind us the Acheron for me. 167.        OPEN OCEAN, DOLDRUMS - DAY
Best bowers chipped... Lot of rust on these forechains... black strake needs another coat.
That engagement off Recife: his whole gun crew killed and him not a mark on him. Soon as he went up the mizzen mast Warley falls. And whose watch was it when we lost our wind?
A mere thimbleful, Corporal, for scientific purposes only.
My God, Padeen, a veritable zoo.
Show me where these Doldrums lie?
Stephen. Will we never make a sailor of you? The doldrums is a condition, not a region. But you tend to strike 'em here...  ...between the trades, and the sou'easterlies. I hope the Acheron is having it as bad as we are.
Assuming he is heading for the Galapagos, and not some other point in all this vastness?
Come. I'd have thought you'd be delighted to go there. It is said to be a natural paradise
In truth I'd be delighted with the merest guano stained rock provided it didn't sway beneath my feet
Well, we'll take on food and water once we're there, and as compensation for not having put ashore in Brazil I pledge that during that time, several days at least, you can wander at will, catching bugs and beetles to your heart's delight. You will be the first naturalist to set foot on the islands. That is my solemn promise
I accept, provided the men have not mutinied and thrown us all overboard before we get there.
Mutiny? No. They are already counting their share of the prize money.
Another week of this and they shall gladly give it up for a glass of clean water.
Ach, Stephen. Stephen. Pray stop your bellyacheing. We shall have rain presently, and if not we shall damned well tow ourselves out of this.
Stroke. Stroke...
I heard he were on the Fair Marion as foundered off Tresco. And he were on the Zephyrus what exploded at Trafalgar.
M-a-s-t... mast
S-u-n... sun
Is that man completely mad?  Mr. Howard, a petrel is not good eating!
Were you never a man for sporting, Doctor? Why you could shoot all day in these waters with two men loading!
Blakeney...
Rye...
Swift...
Boyle...
 All right, come on Addison.
Heads.
It's tails. We attack.
Ow ow ow!
Yield.
Let go of him.
Yield!!
It's just powder. There wasn't a ball in it, just powder.
Are you all right?
No.
What's wrong? I saved you.
I didn't need to be saved.
Master at arms! Take that man below and clap him in irons. Mr. Pullings, defaulters at six bells.
The man pushed past you without making his obedience. And yet you said nothing.
No, Sir, I intended to but the right words just didn't...
'The right words'? He failed to salute you. It's deliberate insubordination.
They don't like me, Sir.
They what? Speak up, man!
I've tried to get to know the men a bit, Sir, be friendly like, but they've taken a set against me. Always whispering when I go past, giving me looks. But, I'll set that to rights, be tougher on them from now on.
You can't make 'friends' with the foremast jacks, they'll despise you in the end. Nor do you need be a tyrant. It's leadership they want, strength, respect.
I'm very sorry, Sir. JACK You're what twenty-three, twenty-four?
 Twenty-five next Friday.
You've failed to pass for lieutenant twice. You can't spend the rest of your life as a midshipman.
I'll try harder, Sir.
Well, it's an unfortunate business, Hollom. Damned unfortunate.
'Article Thirty-Six. All other crimes not capital, committed by any person or persons in the fleet... shall be punished according to the laws, and customs, of the sea.'  Mr. Nagel, you're an old man-of-war's man and yet you failed to salute an officer. You knew what you were doing. Have you anything to say in your defence?
No, Sir.
Have his officers anything to say for him?
Seize him up.
Seized up, Sir.
One dozen. Bosun's mate, do your duty.
Red hell...
...and bloody death!
I was merely remarking that you have always prided yourself on not being a flogging captain and this... JACK I am not a "flogging captain". I have not once rigged the grating on this voyage, not once in twelve thousand miles. Besides, I wager you will find a deal more brutality on land.
I'm not a party to it on land.
Well you are party to it on my ship. Men must be governed. Often not wisely I grant you, but there are hierarchies even in nature, as you've often said yourself.
Hierarchies. That is the excuse of every tyrant in history. Of Nero. Of Boneparte.
 Yes. Fine words I'm sure
 ...We are not animals and I for one am opposed to authority, that egg of misery and oppression..
Very fine words Stephen, but In these current circumstances, hard-work and firm discipline is what keeps our little wooden world together.
And grog I suppose.
Of course. What of it? Of course they have their grog!
You know Nagel was drunk when he insulted Hollom. And Higgins is never sober. Even the midshipmen...
The men will have their grog Stephen. It is part of the immemorial tradition of the service
Well a shameful tradition it is too. To have them pressed from their homes, kept in a permanent state of dull inebriation.
Stephen...
...confined for months in a wooden prison, Never more than a few hours sleep and flogged when drunken idleness drives them to....
...Stephen! I warn you that friend or no I will not have you talk of the service like that.
I am stating plain facts
 Well I will not hear them! From you or anyone. You understand! Things are as they are for good or bad whether or not they have a place in your damned papist philosophy. If you are here to make music then sit down and play. If not be gone, for you have come to the wrong shop for anarchy!
Careful, sir.
Are you all right, Hollom?
He's not sick. He's useless. He's just dodging work.
Oh shut up Calamay. What do you know about anything?
Beg your pardon, your honour, but Mr. Howard just shot a sea-monster!
Doctor! The very man.
[   ] I wished you'd seen it for yourself, Doctor. The crew never seen anything like it.
It was prodigious like a human, though bigger, might have been a sea-elephant, it had a calf with it - I didn't mean to hit the calf, I missed my mark.
Mr. Howard, let me beg you, if the men can't eat it or I can't dissect it, please do not shoot every creature you see.
The howling stops then comes again, from another direction.
What did I tell you? The ship's accursed.
What is that abominable noise, for God's sake?
I have no idea, Sir.
You don't think it's the Acheron, Sir?
 The enemy cannot come on us without a wind, Mr. Mowett.
What do you make of it, Doctor?
I'm sure I've never heard the like.
Perhaps it's the mother of the creature Mr. Howard shot.
[    ] Creature?
[ ] A manatee. A sea-elephant possibly. Though I have never known one with a cry like this.
Bosun. Fire off some flares.
Sergeant, what the devil are you thinking of? Turn the glass and strike the bell.
Perhaps some poor shipwreck?
Ahoy! Is anyone there?
Below! All of you men below!  Tell the bosun those off-duty may sleep with their lamps on.
Duppies make that noise.
See. They know all about this in Africa.
What's a duppie?
That Warley. Swallow by a fish. Spirit can't get out. Him duppie now.
Captain don't even know what that noise be.
Doctor neither, and he knows everything.
Joe here's got the most experience in these matters, and new brains to boot, let's hear it from Joe.
It's the Jonah causing it. That howling thing is a signal to the Phantom-Ship. He's calling it up, don't you see? Every time he's on watch the ship appears. You wait and see, the ghost-ship will appear any time tonight, and take us all straight to the hot-place.
You don't think...?
It's Mr. Hollom, sir, you better come quick.
Mr Hollom. Sir. Try to contain yourself. Hold his head. Mr Hollom. Padeen 201.        STEPHEN'S CABIN - NIGHT.
Well?
There's nothing physically wrong with him. He thinks he's been cursed by the 0men.
Then he probably has been. Sailors will abide a great deal, but never a Jonah. It's like a white crow - the others peck it to death.
A 'Jonah'? My God, you believe it too.
I desired to save you the trouble of looking for a cure. No doubt it will all be sorted by the morning.
Mr. Hollom! You gave me such a start. Are you better now?
Much better, thank you.
I think the creature is going away. HOLLOM I am sure of it.
You've always been very kind to me. Goodbye, Blakeney.
Man overboard!
The fact is, [   ] not all of us become the men we once hoped we might be. But we are all God's creatures. If some of us thought ill of Mr. Hollom, or spoke ill of him, or failed him in respect of fellowship, then we ask your forgiveness, Lord, and we ask for his.
Amen.
Amen.
Strike eight bells.
Turn the glass and strike the bell.
Land-ho!
Give you joy, sir! We have raised the Galapagos!
Can't see any wimmun. Just lots of ducks and lizards.
Wot? There must be wimmun. T'ain't natural.
How extraordinary.
What, sir?
Those birds!
A species of cormorant. But apparently flightless, by all that's Holy. I believe that is unknown to science.
The dragons don't seem to bother 'em.
They are a type of iguana I should think, and therefore vegetarian. His telescope remains focussed on the cormorants. BLAKENEY is wholly absorbed in the iguanas.
Will you catch one?
Yes. Most certainly. And if we can, some eggs.
I mean the great lizards.
Oh!
I should think a pair of them. Then you can present one of their offspring to the king.
Ha! There's one going for a swim.
No. Iguanas are land animals.
Not these ones.
By Jove Bonden you are right! Two new species in as many minutes.
What is all that confounded bellowing?
All hands about ship!
By your leave sir, by your leave.
Helms a'lee - off tacks and sheets - mainsail haul!
God bless you. Thank you, shipmates.
We was coming back for fresh lines, hid in that inlet, yonder. Black-three master. Bit beamy and raised in the stern.
Hundred thousand pound of good whale oil they stole. Then the bastards...
 No swearing on the quarterdeck.
 Go on. HOGG ...Then they burnt our bloody ship and headed off, bunch of fugging pirates.
And her course?
Maybe a point south of west. Following the rest of the whaling fleet.
Mr. Mowett, these men to be entered on the ship's books. Mr. Allen, lay a course west sou'west.
Should we not take on fresh supplies, Sir? Those tortoises...
There's not a moment to lose, Mr. Pullings.
Have you forgotten your promise?
 Subject to the requirements of the service, Stephen. I could not in all conscience delay for the sake of an iguano or a... giant peccary - interesting no doubt, but of no immediate application.
How can you dismiss, out of hand, the bounty of nature? Knowledge that... that will help to progress...
I can see nothing on shore that will progress our mission.
But how can we possibly know what lies [ ] on these islands, perhaps some knowledge that may save life, that...
I will tell you how to save lives Stephen. Inform me how to guide this ship, undetected, under the nose of a 40 gun frigate. That is the job in hand sir.
Well perhaps there's an opportunity to serve both our objectives. As I understand it you mean to go round the end of this long island, then start your voyage. I could walk across it, be on the other side long before...
I would walk briskly, pausing only for important measurements and almost certainly making valuable discoveries...
If wind and tide had been against us I should have said yes. They are not and I am obliged to say no.  No.
I see. So after all this time in your service I must simply be content to form part of this belligerent expedition, hurry past inestimable wonders, bent solely on destruction... JACK ...you forget yourself, sir.
No Jack, You have forgotten your self. You once believed in the rights of each individual man no matter how useless or lowly. But it seems to me now that the long exercise of power has brought you to the point where even a solemn promise...
The promise was conditional.
...a promise to a friend of ten years standing who has stood by you and supported you....
I command a King's ship, not a private yacht...
...across half the worlds oceans often at risk to his own life
...and we have no time for your damned hobbies, sir!
Sir, I found a curious beetle walking on the deck.
I think it's a Galapagos Beetle, sir.
I'm sure of it.
Were you to have walked all day on the island, you might never have come across it.
That is more than likely, sure.
You can have it.
Thank you, Mr. Blakeney.
No music? That's a shame
I'll just leave the one plate then, if himself won't be joining.
Yes, Killick. Just the one.
On deck there. Object fine on the starboard bow.
Martha's vineyard.
No, this here's from Boston. I was married there once.
Any road, it's a Yankee barrel.
What they call a Bedford Hog in New England.
The Acheron touched at Boston.
And it's not been in the water more than a week.
One can't say with any accuracy but...
Yes you can. There's no sea chummer on it, and the dowels is sound.
Continue due west, Mr. Bonden.
Have you seen the bird, doctor?
I have not - no bird these many days. What kind of a bird?
A sort of albatross I believe, or perhaps a prodigious great mew. He has been following the ship since... there he is, crossing our wake!
My God, man! I'm so sorry. The bird dropped low. I didn't see you there!
Calamy! Get Higgins!  Padeen, Davies, carry the Doctor below.
It's all right, I am quite capable of walking.
You will just make it worse... by prodding, Mr. Higgins, it cannot be got at... except by opening me up.
The bullet took a piece of shirt in with it. Unless it is removed it will suppurate and fester.
Are you equal to the task?
I'll need to read up on the Doctor's books, like. Study some pictures he has, get my bearings. Be better on land, but I'll manage somehow.
You men get about your business.
...sail on the horizon, sir. Hull down, running west. It may be a couple of days before we can catch her.
It might be the Acheron. If we put on more sail we'd come up with her before nightfall.
 Do you wish me to set the topgallants?  Sir?
...Clap on now! Every rope an end... Jolly-boat away... Slowly, Jenks! You grass-combing lubber!
 Davies! Slade!
Doctor. You're still with us. Can we move you onto a stretcher?
Tell me this wasn't on my account?
 No. It was because of Higgins.  Can't have him poking around in your belly without a solid platform to work on.
All set, Higgins?
Not Higgins. I do this with my own hand.
 [ ] You are sure you have a head and a stomach for this kind of thing?
My dear Doctor, I have seen blood and wounds since I was a little boy.
Then hold my belly, pressing firmly when I give the word.
You will have to raise the rib, Higgins. Take a good grip with the square retractor. Up. Harder, harder.  Snip the cartilage.
Now, Jack, a steady downward pressure. Good. Keep it so. Give me the davier. Swab, Higgins. Press, Jack, press.
There she is.
Is that all of it?
Aye, she'll patch up nicely, sir.
Easy away, Jack. Handsomely with the retractor. Higgins, look to the Captain, while I swab.
My goodness, what is this?
Well sir, Padeen and I have been doing some collecting for you. The beetles each come with a specimen of plant they were found on. Ooops. Catch him, Padeen! There he goes.
The birds were snared by Jemmy Ducks. Captain says we can keep them in the chicken coop.
And I made a few notes if you want to see them.
'Pon my word you have the makings of a true naturalist.
Well sir, perhaps I could combine them, and be a kind of Fighting-Naturalist, like yourself?
Should you really be up?
Yes. Padeen!
 How long does the Captain intend that we stay here, do you know?
Oh, a week perhaps. There is no great hurry.
But surely, we must make haste for the Marquesas?
It may not have been the Acheron that we sighted. Nor can we be sure of her destination.  No, I think we shall go home now, before peace breaks out with France, God forbid.
But how will it sit with the Admiralty? To have spent six months in a fruitless pursuit and then come home empty-handed? JACK "Empty-handed"? Not a bit of it. What about these plants and animals which Blakeney has been collecting? The British museum will need an entire new wing for 'em.
I fear, Jack, you have burdened me with a debt I can never repay.
Tosh. Name a shrub after me. Something prickly and hard to eradicate.
A shrub? I shall name a giant tortoise: Testudo Aubreii!
Doctor, would you think it very unscientific of me to ride on the back of one of those tortoises.
No, Mr. Blakeney. I would think it an experiment of absolutely vital importance. But afterwards, I do desire to find that flightless cormorant, assuming that is what it is, and that I still have strength enough to catch it.
Sir, you must hurry!
A moment! You're a worse tyrant than any ship's captain.
You must carry him, Padeen!
Leave them! We must get back to the ship.
I forgot to ask you - did you see your bird?
I did not. My greatest discovery was your phantom.
Indeed it was, I'm sorry...
 Not a bit of it. William and I made a unique discovery.
Tell him, Mr. Blakeney.
It's a rare phasmid, Sir.
A phasmid?
It's an insect disguised as a stick.
In order to confuse a predator.
Mr. Hollar, rouse up all the yellow paint we have. I want six men with brushes slung over the side.  Doudle!
Yessir.
Get your sail makers working on this. Sixty yards by five yards with an eyelet every seven feet.
Aye, Sir.
 Have Nagel patch it up and light a fire in it.  Mr. Calamy!
Aye, Sir.
Once we're underway, replace some of the sails with the oldest, most patched set we have.
They'll be in the afterhold, Sir. I'll need some men to move all the clutter.
Good. Spread it around the foredeck. The more mess the better.
Haul away!
There, Sir. A mainmast toplight.
You've got good eyes, Hogg.
Mr. Bonden, set a course west-south-west.  We'll drop below the horizon and come up on the other side of him, let him think he's seen us first.
I see. A wolf in sheep in sheep's clothing
A phasmid, doctor. It was you what gave me the idea.
I'm not sure a phasmid can be a predator.
No? Well this one is.
Thank you.
You'll make lieutenant out of this.
He already has. 'Acting' 3rd Lieutenant Peter Calamy.
[       ] Then I'll see you at the forecastle, 'Lieutenant'.
That's not your station.
But naturally I'll board with you?
I'm sorry, Will. Captain's orders.
She's seen us!
She's asking us to heave to. Shall I give the order?
No, make a show of fleeing upwind, but panicky and disorganized, like a whaler might do.
No offence, Mr. Hogg.
 Run up Portuguese colours.  Load, Mr. Pullings. Triple shot 'em.
May I speak with you, Sir.
No saluting, Mr. Blakeney, we're whalers here.
Mr. Calamy says I am not in the boarding party, I wanted to say -
 I know what you want to say and my answer is no. I promised your mother I would return you in one piece and I have already failed her on that score. You will command a gun and then retire to defend the quarterdeck here with Dr. Maturin.
But sir -
Go to your station, Mr. Blakeney.
Good shooting. Remind me to press her bow gunner, Mr. Pullings.
Start the water and throw some barrels overboard.
 We're a long way from home. (Right you are, Captain!) A long way from anywhere, But if Britain rules the waves she rules these waves too. (Right she does!) And the blow we shall deal for his Majesty here will be felt just as keenly  aye - and cheered just as loudly ('specially by the wimmin!) - as any dealt at Trafalgar or Cape St. Vincent.
I don't say it will be easy. She's twice the men we have and they'll sell their lives dearly. But every man here is worth three of Boney's privateers, and I know there's not a faint heart among you. CALAMY pipes up -
Three cheers for the Captain.
Huzzah huzzah huzzah!
I took the liberty, Doctor.
[    ] Thank you, Killick.
Mr. Mowett? [  ] A poem might be in order.
A poem, Sir? [   ]  'Oh were it mine with sacred Maro's art, To wake to sympathy the feeling heart,
Then might I, with unrivalled strains, deplore, Th'impervious horrors of a leeward shore.'
'Transfixed with terror at th'approaching doom...'
What!
 ...they were only people of the merchant service, of-course, Sir.
We have her Mr. Mowett. Strike the Portuguese colours and run up the Jack... Mr. Pullings. Canvas off the gun-ports, and run 'em out. Mr. Howard? Marines away aloft.
Helm's a lee!
Run us down her larboard side then cut across her wake!  Hold fire Mr Pullings! Hold till we're broadside on!
Fire as she bears! Every gun to concentrate on her mainmast!
On the uproll! Fire for the mainmast as you sight her!
Now Mr Bonden! Hard a'starboard!
Fire at will!
Lay me alongside!
Boarders away!
Look to our quarter-deck!
This way! Follow me!
Where is your captain? Ou est votre capitaine?
Le Capitaine? Where is he?
Il mvait prie de vous donner ceci.
He's dead, sir.
I'll do it. JOE passes him the needle and twine, then they leave him alone.
Rise and shine, show a leg there. Tumble up! Tumble up!
Sleepers awake!
John Henry ALLEN... Joseph NAGEL... William Horner... Stephen Winston Boyle... and Lieutenant William Blakeney
Amen.
Amen.
Signal... 'Parole prisoners Valparaiso'...
You mean Lieutenant Pullings, Sir?
No. Captain Pullings.
....then 'Rendezvous Portsmouth. God- speed, Captain Pullings.'
Shall we begin?
Jack, brother, you're gathering wool.
Thinking about their captain. A great seaman, whatever you may say of him. The doctor said he was killed by our first broadside. I'd have liked to talk to him, face to face.
Maybe you did.
What?
While I was tending the prisoners they told me their doctor died of fever, two weeks ago. There was no doctor on that ship when we boarded it. And I doubt you will find one there now.
Shall we? He starts to play, the deep booming sound of the cello carrying through to ....
That's the last of the cheese and like as not they'll leave it seizing to their plates with their tweedly tweedly tweedly.
Killick? KILLICK THERE!
Which it will be ready when it's ready!
