Every man has a death that's right for him. Every one. REVERSE to find a wall of photographs, charts, official documents. In the center A PHOTOGRAPH of a man, mid-40's, East-Indian, dressed like the billionaire he is. Dodi Fayed meets Bill Gates. THE MARK.
For every man, there's a way to leave this earth which is so right for them, it's almost as if they carry it with them. MOVING over the wall. MORE PHOTOGRAPHS. The Mark escorted from a bullet-proof sedan by ear-wired men. Entertaining at a palatial estate. Magazine covers: "The billion-dollar lifestyle." "The new Playboy." ...passing over smaller articles: "What does this man do with your money?"
When the right death overtakes a man, there will be grief in those who knew him, but there will also be a sense of inevitability. Because they will know, that of course... CLOSE ON BISHOP. Statue-like, except his eyes which dart across the wall in front of him, making connections...
...Of course, this was always going to happen this way. WHOMP! The SOUND OF THE RACE floods in as the cars blow by, revealing Bishop amidst onlookers, watching, calculating.
'Evening, Arthur. Got your weekly right here. The man hoists two bags of groceries onto the counter. Bishop comes forward, sees the Owner's DAUGHTER behind the counter. 12, precocious, reading a dog-eared kid's book.
Hey, Sophie. I got something for you, wanna see? The girl smiles, puts down the book and comes over. Bishop crouches in front of her. He puts out two empty hands, shows them back and front, then tickles one ear with a hand while the other "appears" a small daisy. The girl sees it, smiles... a little disappointed.
I'm just kidding. Bishop reaches into his jacket, pulls out the next installment in the kid's book she's reading: A series featuring a young female Harry-Potter like character on the cover: LUNA CROMWELL. Sophie BEAMS, takes it. A quick hug and she's back to her seat, opening the new book.
What do you say, honey?
Thank you, Bishop.
You're very welcome. And she's back into the book. Bishop smiles, a little sad. It was nice... but the moment's over. He stands and collects his groceries.
See you next week, Arthur.
Bishop's Cobra drives past the MAIN HOUSE, a large craftsman, into a BARN where he parks next to a collection of other beautiful vintage cars. He gets out, crosses the dirt drive towards his home. A STUDIO separate from the main house. Two horses graze in an attached paddock.
Bishop jumps off the treadmill, immediately takes his pulse, checks it against a clock on the wall, jots a note. Bishop, pressing weights. 300+ pounds. Reps over and over, Muscles HARD, STRAINING. In his eyes, almost a relaxed intensity. The rest of the world, turned off. Bishop RACKS the weights, LOUD. Immediately taking his pulse, checking the clock...
THE VIEW. Over all the city, thousands of lights twinkle.
I'll just be a minute. We catch a GLIMPSE of the WOMAN. A towel over her hair, wearing a skirt and a bra, crossing from the bathroom into her bedroom. Even in the small glimpse, she's beautiful. Bishop looks down at a coffee table. Magazines, newspaper. A picture of the first Mark's elaborate funeral.
I'm sorry I was away so long this time. I had some complications... He turns. She's emerged from the bedroom. 30's. Long dark hair, damp from the shower. Buttoning a shirt, the curve of her breasts caught as she does. A comfortable, sophisticated air about her. Effortlessly attractive.
You don't have to apologize. I'm just glad you're here now.
I'm sorry. I just... miss you. I never thought I was going to be a "woman who waits." But I do. I wait for you. He nods. She breaks off, pours red wine in a glass.
Were you in Europe? Africa?
No.
Liar. It's alright. I don't mind.  I... I made something for you. She picks up a remote, fire up a large flatscreen TV. Hits a button. A moment, then an IMAGE flickers to life. ON THE TV: The WOMAN, sitting in this same living room. She wears a long sleeve shirt over panties. Sips a glass of wine. Smiles warm at the camera. The silence of late night.
I'm not a man who... It wouldn't be good for you, if I was around all the time.
I know. I know. She moves to him and they are kissing fierce.
Stay for breakfast? He turns. She's standing in the doorway, tying a robe around herself. A cool professionalism inhabits her demeanor. Not crass or mean-spirited, but the romance is gone.
Do I ever?
No. But there's a first time for everything. Bishop goes to the DVD player, slots out the DVD they watched the night before and pockets it.
Thank you. This was a good one. See you next time.
Bishop... You all right? He turns, studies her. This is new ground. He nods and leaves. She stares a moment at the door after he's gone.
 Yes, I just got here. No, not yet. He turns, REACTS as Bishop is there, CLOSE, barely sweating.
Arthur? Jesus Christ, Arthur, is that you?
...How are you, Harry?
Oh you know, I'm God Damn perfect. I'm redecorating my fucking office and I wanted your advice on the god forsaken curtains is how I am.  This is... this is something, Arthur. I need to see you, for old time's sake.
Sorry, gotta do this... Patient, Bishop puts his arms out as the man searches him.
I like the new digs. McKenna LAUGHS, like a grunt. Fiddles with his hearing aid, turning it up. Bishop's eyes track.
Has it really been that long? Jesus.
Times have changed, Harry. They don't wear skirts anymore. McKenna eyeballs Bishop, shakes his head. He goes to the glass wall, points out at the screens, financial markets.
You know what all that is?  That's their money, getting moved, exchanged. Made clean and neat and proper for Uncle Sam. And I have always been extremely careful.
You know what that is? That's a God damn subpoena from the Justice Department. We get a new face in the white house, all of a sudden they want to look at my records. They got accountants want to go through MY BOOKS. Are you kidding me? I got the left hand coming after me for what I did for the right hand. Bishop looks over the papers, nods.
So I call them up. I say "hey, you guys gotta get your own house in order..."
And...
And? And that's the point! Nothing. I tell them they have a problem here and instead of dealing with it I get silence, zippo, fuck- all. What are they, twelve?
...I don't see how I can --
That's bullshit, Arthur. Your father -- they still talk about the guy like he walked on water. You, they'll listen to. You --
I'm not a part of that. McKenna stares out the window at the street below, nervous. Shakes a pill out of as small vial, pops it. He chuckles, shakes his head.
You remember that fishing trip we all took, back in the day. You were, what? About eight, right?  You fell out of the boat... couldn't swim a stroke. City kid.  You're in the water, splashing around.
You got these big eyes like saucers, like you're sure you're gonna drown. Splashing... swallowing water... just STARING at your father and he's not making a move. Remember? Just looking down at you like... Suddenly it's gotten less funny.
I finally had to grab you by the hair, pull you back into the boat. You're shivering like hell and he -- your dad -- gives one of those laughs. Those big laughs everyone loved him for.
That was a long time ago, Harry. McKenna turns from the window, takes in all his monitors, charts. Stock lines tick up and down, graphs flow, pulse...
Well, I'm in the water this time, Arthur. You think it's easy for me to ask? It cuts like hell. But that's what I'm doing. Bishop eyes the barely open doorway into a small room off the office. Pillows and blankets on a sofa. Some clothes strewn about. McKenna's been sleeping here. A long beat. Bishop... nods. The tension seems to DRAIN from McKenna. He claps Bishop on the back, nods back.
...Thank you. Thank you. THROUGH THE GLASS WALL OF THE OFFICE. Bishop's eyes track as elevator doors open and STEVE MCKENNA steps out, a beautiful young woman with him, LOUISE. She's a trophy, the woman you get for being top dog and the one you regret getting. Gorgeous, self-obsessed, entitled. She flops onto a leather sofa as Steve moves towards the office. Steve's young, mid-20's, strikingly handsome, wearing the casual uniform of wealth not earned. But there's something else that arrests Bishop immediately. Unwasted motion, detachment, observing the world around him... from above.
And here's the prodigal son, arrived to bilk me for ransom.
Hey. Nice to meet you. You work for my father?
No, quite the opposite. Arthur's doing me a little favor.
So you're a criminal?
That's enough.
Relax, relax. I'm kidding. A last beat between Steve and Bishop, then Steve lets it go, turns his attention to his father.
I need you to make a donation to Louise's charity. She's mounting some kind of fundraiser and she wants to make sure we do our part.
What's it for?
I have no idea. And don't pretend you care, either. Write the check, go to the party, smile when the
you and call you a great and generous man.
Nope.
Wise man. How much?
Thirty thousand.  You know, I can't tell what you're thinking, Mr. Bishop. Usually, I'm very good with that, with people. Sort of like a bullshit detector I developed. But you're very... hard to read.
Sorry.
Don't be. So what are you thinking?
I was thinking that a son, should be more grateful to his father.
There. Now go away.
Thank you, dad. Are we going to see you at the house any time soon?
Yeah, this is just a few more days. We got this... situation. Steve hears the dark in his father's tone, tracks it.
Anything I can do?
You? Yeah, you can earn some money. Get married.
Well it's good to meet you Mr. Bishop. My father seems to trust you, which is... unusual. Bishop and McKenna watch as he hits the atrium, hands Louise the check who goes out of her mind, jumping up and down, giving him a kiss that speaks of more to come, trotting off. Steve glances back one more time, then follows her.
We will take from our children for a lifetime what we would not suffer from another man for an instant. Explain that to me.  Okay. Okay, call me when you hear something.
You take care of yourself, Harry.
Well, that's your job now, isn't it?
Arthur. Glad you're here. Right this way. As they move across the space Bishop catches sight of a MODEL, lying nude in a pool of blue paint. Across from her, The ARTIST is full-focused on her. He's roughly Bishop's age. Cigarette dangles off a lip, tattoos on his arms. Fully comfortable and committed to the alternative life. The model senses Bishop's gaze, looks over, unashamed.
This way. Bishop follows the Dealer into another area where they approach a canvas. It's a portrait of a young boy, alone. The effect is of rage-filled isolation.
Zak is almost finished. It will make a wonderful addition to your collection. Bishop looks at the canvas. Nods. Glances back to where the artist is carefully adjusting his model's position.
Do you want to meet him?
...No.
Good evening, Mr. Bishop. How can I help you?
Yes. I'd like to speak to Dean. There's a brief pause on the phone, then.
...Mr. Dean is not available right now. Can I take a message?
No. Just tell him I called. Bishop hangs up, stares at the phone. The doorbell rings. Bishop opens it to find a DHL COURIER on his doorstep. Bishop is suddenly casual, friendly. The public face of Bishop.
Hello, Don. They make you drive all the way out here this evening?
That's the job.
You find tires for that old FleetMaster?
Will do. Good night, Arthur. The man heads back towards his truck. Bishop tears away the strip that seals the envelope, a small USB jump-drive slides into his hands. The friendly grin on Bishop's face... evaporates.
Bishop. I heard you called. Hey, you get the stuff I sent you?
That's what I called about. I know him. I think there might be a
Hold on a second. A long pause. Just air on the line. Bishop stares at his work in front of him, his research on McKenna tacked to the wall. Dean's voice comes back as suddenly as it departed.
No, it's been decided. This one's a go. You take care of yourself, Bishop. The line goes dead. Bishop stares at the phone for a second, sets it down. He looks up at Harry's picture on the wall.
Hello?
They want to talk. I'm picking you up in an hour.
Send your people home. I don't want anyone I don't know near you today. I'm serious.
...Thank you, Arthur.
I'm sorry. My bad. The guy at the counter shrugs, turns for a mop. Bishop quickly reaches into the McKenna bag, switches a wrapped sandwich for one he brought.
Hey, you okay?
Actually, call central. I'm not -- And with that, he's suddenly up and MOVING towards the bathroom. Security #2 raises his radio.
You ever wonder what the last day of your life will feel like, Arthur?
You keep standing next to that window, maybe you'll be able to tell me. McKenna looks over, smiles weary. He looks exhausted. He goes to his desk, picks up a tie, looks to Bishop.
This turns out alright, I'm going to send you a dozen Thai hookers and a case of Cuban Esplandidos. You can return the hookers if you want, but the cigars...
You will, my friend. For these, you will.
Why the change of security?
...What? Beat. Bishop SLAPS the STOP button. Elevator jerks to a halt. Bishop gets a finger into the doors, PRIES them open.
Arthur...? McKenna looks at the effort, sighs. Lets Bishop help him down. Halfway through, BALANCE SHIFTS, McKenna starts to fall. Bishop STEADIES him. McKenna STARES at Bishop, concerned. Bishop nods, heading towards the STAIRS, pocketing a small hearing aide as he goes. ON MCKENNA, touching the hearing aide in his ear...
Come on...
What the hell...? McKenna moves in, pushes Bishop aside. MCKENNA'S P.O.V.: His SECURITY. Only there are two new faces in the garage. Replacements packing weaponry.
This isn't good, Arthur...
Listen to me. Stay here. I'm going to check it out.
Bishop, those men are armed...
Harry, relax. I know what I'm doing. And Bishop slips out the door, shutting it behind him.
Harry! It's a trap! RUN!!! The door flies opens and Bishop LURCHES IN, gun raised. McKenna starts up the stairs, breathing hard. Behind him, he can see Bishop, gun lined back at the door. BLAM! BLAM! Gunshots assault his eardrums.
Come on! If we can get to the roof I can hold them off! Come on! McKenna GULPS AIR, staggers on...
...You. Bishop nods. McKenna CACKLES which turns into a scream as PAIN sends him reeling. He falls, hitting his head. Blood rolls down his face.
You bastard. You... Sonofabitch. You didn't have the balls... The balls to AARRRGHHHH! He CONVULSES. Tears stream down his face. His body HEAVING, not giving up the ghost. ON BISHOP. We know it's in there. But it doesn't show. Instead he checks his watch, calculates time...
Oh God. Oh, Jesus Christ help me.
Please... Please... Please... McKenna stops struggling, stares up at Bishop. Tears streaming down his face.
Please, Arthur, put me out of my misery. Your father... Bishop checks his watch again, doesn't meet McKenna's eyes. Checks the stair door, looks over the building edge...
Please. I'm scared. I'm really god damn scared... Suddenly Bishop MOVES. Lightening fast, wrapping up McKenna's head, fingers PRESSING expertly along arteries. McKenna STARES UP one horrible second, then goes limp in his arms, dead. Bishop releases, stands, stares down. For the first time, uncertainty in his face. Why did he do that? He looks at the body, at his hands, out at the city. Wipes his forehead with the back of a hand, furious at himself. He reaches down, removes the hearing aide from McKenna's ear, replaces it with the original, turns away. SEEN FROM FAR ABOVE. McKenna's body, alone on the rooftop.
His good works comfort all of us, even in his going. We commit his remains to your earth, oh Father, and we pray you vouchsafe him eternal life and that you bring comfort to those who have been left behind. His only son, Steve, who is himself devoted to -- The Priest falters as Steve rises, moves away from the event. Bishop tracks him as he wanders through gravestones.
...Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost...
My condolences.
Best grief money can buy. Give me a ride home?
Looks like you have one.
Yeah, all of that. Empty limos. Fake guests. All so that the papers print what an important and respected man Harry was. Steve takes in the one or two guests, already counting their money a few yards away. Shakes his head.
Well, I hope it's what Harry would have wanted. But it's not for me. Beat. Bishop nods.
You know, what I don't get is you. Harry didn't have any friends.
Your dad worked with my father a long time ago.
So?
So, just paying my respects.
So your old man was into all that?
Well, that is refreshingly honest, Mr. Bishop. What about you? Bishop doesn't answer, steers the car up a manicured drive. P.O.V. - THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD: An ESTATE. A main house, lawns, pools, guest houses.
Why is it so comforting, when people surpass even our lowest expectations?
No, thanks. I've got to --
Please. A favor to me. None of these people even remembered what today was. Bishop nods. They move into the scene. People recognize Steve, hug or bump-fists. Steve's friendly, but stays locked on Bishop. Bishop observes it all, not uncomfortable.
Do you believe in fate, Mr. Bishop?
Why? A basketball hoop has been set up near the pool. Young men take turns dunking and then landing in the water.
I think maybe we're all doomed to become our fathers. I'll probably die spoiled, corrupt, lonely and alone. Runs in the blood. What would that make you?
You're still young. You can do pretty much whatever you please. AT THE HOT TUB, two girls kiss each other, filmed in DV by an young entrepreneur.
You think so? Just chuck all this and go help the children in South America, something like that?
Maybe.
Well look at you, Mr. Bishop. You're a dreamer. Steve heads inside. A beat, Bishop follows.
Well? Do you want to...?
No, in fact I'm pretty sure that's illegal in this state.
You know, I went up there. To where my father died.
Oh?
Hell of a place to die. Lonely... Bishop comes abreast of Steve, also looks down. Removed from the party and the pool area, a separate area of the estate contains an outdoor gym. Weights, exercise equipment, a fighting matt and martial arts equipment all present.
 That all yours?
If the body is weak, the mind can't be strong. Bishop nods, impressed. Something about this young man. Engaged, observing Bishop, but not needy.
Steve! Steve, man. It's Louise. At the door, a FRIEND of Steve's is held back by security.
She's up in the bungalow. I think she might really do it this time.
I'll let myself out.
No, please. You've seen this much. Aren't you interested? I am. Off Bishop...
Who's he?
A friend. Would have thought you'd have started by now.
This isn't about me. It's about you. You need to watch. Steve crouches down, pours himself a shot from her whiskey bottle. Something angry and cold in his eyes.
Okay. I'm here. I'm watching.
You don't believe I'll do it.
No, I know you, Louise. You'll do just about anything if it'll get you enough attention.
You think you can hide behind that cool attitude. Like nothing matters to you. But I know you. You care. You feel.
Do I? Louise blinks, scared a little. But she pushes the fear away, picks up one of the razor blades. A beat, then with a quick gesture, she slices across one wrist. Blood rises to the surface, runs down her arms into the water. Steve doesn't move. Neither does Bishop. Louise picks up the second blade with the cut hand. Fingers fumble, but she gets it. Slices across her other wrist.
...Wow.
How long will it take?
How much do you weigh?
A hundred and ten. His eyes take in her body, the flow from her wrists...
You're a hundred and twenty-five. It'll take an hour and a half, maybe two. When you get cold... then you'll know you're close. Steve takes in Bishop in this moment, nods. Glances at the clock: 9:30. Then he refills his drink, heads out to the patio outside. Sits facing away from them.
He'll stop it. He thinks he's above it all. But he's not. No one is. Bishop nods. Not clear if he's agreeing or observing.
I'm getting cold. Please. I'm frightened. I'm scared, Steve. Bishop looks at Steve who just keeps staring outwards.
You can help her if you want. The sounds of water, splashing. Louise arrives on the patio, a blood-stained robe loosely pulled on around her. Mascara eyes ran. She stares down at Steve.
You're a bastard.
You know what the kick of it is, Louise? If you actually had the stones, then there's be something for us. But in 30 seconds when you run down that path and all of those people go crazy saving your life... Well, then we'll be done.
Maybe nothing. Maybe you never really knew me. A beat. Louise, looking between the two men. She SWAYS on her feet and Bishop puts a hand out, steadies her.
You're a bastard, too. Both of you. Like looking in some dark mirror.
Go on, Louise. You'll do fine. The world's gonna love you. Louise steps away, turns, stumbling down the path into the dark. A beat, the men just watching after her and then a SCREAM from below. COMMOTION, ACTION. People rush to Louise, help her to the ground. Others pulling out cell phones, call for help. Louise's LOUD cries drift back.
Would you have let her do it?
We'll never know, will we? Steve rises, heads up a small path.
You didn't answer my question.
Everybody dies.
Sure. But it's a whole other world when you're personally involved. There's a very big tab that has to be picked up.
Such as? Bishop stops, looks down at the action far below them.
Governments, cops, the military... we give young men a licence and send them into it blind, thinking it'll all be okay. Because someone told them they had permission.
Everybody can kill. You take a mother, protecting her child...
Sure. But that's instinct. What I'm talking about is up here...  Knowledge of foresight. Intention. A person who knows that the only way to truly be free of man's laws, is to break his highest one. Beat. It sits there, between them.
Why are you telling me all this?
Why did you want me to see that little stunt with your girlfriend? Bishop stares down the hill at the commotion. Ants swarming.
These aren't your people, are they? You don't have "people." Your life is crowded, but you're alone. Steve unconsciously nods, then:
You know, you're right. You grow up spoiled, rich, like me... Only thing you really learn to recognize in people is when someone wants something from you.
Thanks for the tour. It's been interesting.
Yes, it has. Bishop turns, heads back down towards the estate. Steve watches him go.
Quite a collection you have here. Military?
Something like that.
Does this hurt? Bishop smiles, recognizing the nature of the touch.
Yes, a little. The doctor lets her hands rest just a fraction too long, then moves across the room, writes in a chart.
Any next of kin, anybody we can notify?  How about an acquaintance?
Am I going to die?
You damaged your deltoid muscle. But that doesn't explain the anxiety attack.
Any unusual stress recently? Something at work?  I'm prescribing Cataflam for the pain and Paxil for the stress and I'm going to give you my card. If you have any other episodes... or if you need anything else, don't hesitate to give me a call. She holds out her card. He looks at her, lets her stay that way for a moment, then takes the card. She looks away.
You can pay at the desk.
Mr. Bishop! Arthur! Please, I need to speak with you. The front door opens. Bishop, fronting sleepy. Steve is ENERGIZED, LIT, eyes blazing.
What time is it?
I wanna show you something. Please. It'll be... It'll be interesting.
Gonna tell me what the big surprise is?
I'd rather show you. I know, melodramatic. But I think it'll be worth it to you. Bishop TENSES, almost imperceptible as Steve pilots the car into the underground structure beneath McKenna Holding Corp.
 You know what that says? My dad didn't die of a heart attack. I mean, he was dying of a heart attack, but that's not what killed him. The blood flow to his brain was cut off, his brain died before his body. Somebody killed him. On Bishop, considering Steve.
What do the police think?
...What do you want?
They killed him. Here, on the roof of his own building. His own security all around. Why here? Why even kill him, if he was already dying?
You tell me.
To make a point. That no one's safe. That they can get to anyone, whenever they want to.
So what am I doing here? Bishop, supremely alert, listening. Tracking shadows...
I got my black belt in Karate when I was nineteen. I've studied Judo since I was six.
I'm impressed.
No, you're not. Most people are, but you're not. If I came at you right now, I'd wind up dead as my father, wouldn't I? Bishop doesn't answer. Steve breaks away, looks down at the place where his father died.
Same as if I tried to exact justice for my father. These men, what this is... It's something you know about, isn't it?
I didn't get the impression you even liked Harry very much. Steve SURGES forward. Real anger, intensity boiling over.
You really going to stand there and judge how much I loved my father? What the hell do you know about it? Bishop, hearing this. A nerve touched.
Besides, this isn't just about Harry. Harry's dead, may he rest in peace. But this is about me. They came here and they killed my father. They did that to me.
You want revenge. Steve doesn't answer. A long moment between them. Steve turns, looks out over the city.
You know the word "Nemesis"? It's not actually a word. It's a name. She was one of the Greek goddesses. Of anger. Retribution against any mortal who became too proud.
The executor of divine justice. It's a beautiful idea, don't you think? Justice.
Justice? A beat. Bishop shakes his head, turns, starts to walk back towards the elevators. Steve collects his papers, angry.
Jesus, stop your whining. SLAP! No one's ever spoken to Steve that way. He STARES. A stillness between them, even the wind slows, waiting...
Corner of sixth and Grand. Tomorrow morning. 7:00 am. Don't be late.
I won't. Beat. Bishop nods, starts to leave, turns back...
And Steve... no more surprises like this, okay? Steve nods. Bishop goes. On Steve, watching as the elevator doors erase the older man.
Stay focused. This is a test. Bishop moves down the rows, pulling drapes away as he does. Nude BODIES are revealed. Men, women, teens. In some, the reason for their death is obvious. Others aren't telling.
You want to know about killing, look around. Steve does, a little creeped out, but keeping it cool.
The act of killing, is an end in itself. Any other motive keeps it from being pure.
The psychopath has no motive.
No, he's driven, compelled, by his sickness. He's as much the victim as those he kills. More drapes fall. Dead eyes stare up at them.
But when you make your own law, you're responsible to no one else but yourself. Maybe you're free...
I understand.
Do you? This isn't some idea anymore. This is the real thing. You still with me?
I am. Another drape falls. A beautiful woman. No signs of injury.
Ever heard the term "Mechanic" used outside of its normal meaning?
My father used it. A dealer... a guy who works the tables. Bishops smiles, shakes his head.
Or a... killer. A hit man. Bishop just stares. Steve shakes his head, looks away from Bishop, winds up staring at a dead man. Laughs to himself.
What are you thinking?
I had you pegged as... a security consultant. Maybe ex-military. Someone who... protects people.
Maybe I do.
Or maybe you just get paid to kill people. Bishop nods his head yes.
So why let me in? I mean, I know what I want. What do you get out of it?
...Times are changing. Security is better trained, more lethal. Sometimes I could use a partner.
Bullshit. Bishop nods, smiles. He moves away from the tables, leaves Steve standing in the middle of it all.
In this... there isn't room for those who are outside of it. There's too much isolation. Friendships can't work. Eventually everyone expects you to account. The isolation... becomes a liability. You stand out. Standing out... isn't good. Steve smiles, shakes his head.
You need a... friend?
An associate.
Because you think I'm a natural.
That remains to be seen.  But you're alone in there, aren't you? That's... the prerequisite. Steve continues to stare at the bodies. Bishops starts towards the exit.
Think it over.
Bishop...
You may never find them.
You didn't answer my question. A beat. Bishop nods.
I'm still at 130.
Too fast.
I know. I'm working on it. Bishop nods, picks up the rifle, sights. BLAM! 1,000 yards away, the bullet IMPACTS the head-rest of an abandoned car. Bishop looks to Steve who gives up, raises the handgun. BLAM! BLAM! BLAM! Three shots. Three misses. Steve tosses down the gun, frustrated.
You were still over 100.
What am I supposed to do?
There are no perfect situations. You fought me at 100%, so you were winning. But in doing so, you gave up your shooting option.
Bishop... What's your 100% look like? Bishop smiles.
... who has to PEEL away, off the highway, onto the smooth dirt-pack. He DOWNSHIFTS, blasts back onto the road, catching air. Steve LAUGHS out load as they CREST the top of a rise... LOOMING AHEAD: An existing accident. A beer truck jack- knifed across the freeway. Bishop BRAKES, fighting for control. Steve SWERVES his car, too fast, it goes into a SPIN... CLIPS another car, gains air and PLOWS ass-backwards into the side of the beer truck. BISHOP'S CAR slides to a stop. Bishop gets out, tracks: STEVE, climbing out of the Maserati onto the hood protruding from the side of the truck. LAUGHING, WHOOOPING at the sky. Bishop approaches, sees that hundreds of bottles of BEER have cascaded out of the punctured truck. Steve wipes blood from a cut on his forehead, grabs a beer and cracks it, swigs as he sits on the Maserati hood. He grabs another, tosses it to Bishop.
Come on up, man. The view is beautiful. Bishop takes in the situation, the small crowd gathering... he jumps up, sits on the hood of the car with Steve, both leaning back against the cracked windshield.
You lost control.
You think? Steve puts out his beer. A hesitation, then Bishop clinks beers with him. They both drink. Stretched out in front of them, the highway seems to go on forever.
You ever think about just... going? Leaving. Never turning back?
...Sometimes.
Why don't you?
I have... responsibilities. I have a cat. A beat. Steve LAUGHS loud. Bishop laughs. Maybe the first time in ages. They drink, watch the sun move lower in the sky as emergency vehicles approach.
You know, looking at these, a person might think maybe there's a screw or two loose up there... Steve catches sight of a manila envelope in front of his empty place.
Is this what I think it is?
Who's the Mark?
...I am.
It's not good enough to simply follow your Mark and attack him. Most of these people know they're targets. They'll be watching for you. ... A moment, then Steve enters the frame, tracking Bishop.
You need to understand the location, control the situation. You're looking for escapes, security, police presence... Bishop passes two COPS, squeezes between two parked produce trucks towards the row of shops that border the square.
Interest you in anything? Bishop takes in the man, eyes check polished reflective surfaces, back to the man. Bishop points to a watch.
That's a beauty.
Most of all, you need to answer this question: "How does this man die here today?" Bishop passes a butcher cutting into a slab of meat. Steve follows behind Bishop, lost in the sea of people.
Everybody, everyday, has a way to die. You have to find it.
They don't make that anymore. That's a classic. I can let you have it for three hundred...
Bishop, at the last minute pulled back by Steve who's holding him there, smiling. A beat. Bishop checks the surroundings, nods. Steve release him.
...Good. Very good.
Good? That's all you got? How about God damn perfect, man?
Don't get cocky.
Broad daylight. A thousand witnesses. Man takes a wrong step. Excuse me if I take a moment to appreciate myself. Because that was poetry.  You just can't bring yourself to be impressed, can you? Bishops considers, notices that the Luna Cromwell doll has fallen in the gutter. Picks it up, tries to dry it.
 What's that? You're what? Oh, you are impressed? No, come on, you don't have to say that. Really, I'm fine with -- You what? You've never seen someone better? Wow.
All right. You did very well.
Damn straight I did. And now, in celebration of me, I'm taking you to a restaurant where the waitresses... what? Something about Bishop's serious gaze has stopped Steve. Bishop reaches into his jacket, places a gun in Steve's hands. A confused beat, Steve conceals the weapon.
...Bishop?
There's a man behind me. Look up once, then look away. Don't look back. Steve glances up. We realize we're right in front of the watch store. The OWNER is pulling the steel grate down over his store, closing for the day.
You got him?
Yeah. Look...
You did good here. Really good. But this was just a game. That man... is your graduation.
Who is he?
He owns the watch store.
I know. I meant... what did he do? Bishop comes close, FOCUSED.
I've taught you how to kill without anyone knowing there was a murder. I've taught you to be invisible. But that's strategy, not killing. The real test... it's the actual killing, isn't it?
Bishop...
Do you want this? Be very sure. Because you can walk away.
No. I'm ready. Bishop studies him... nods. Turns to go.
Bishop... We're right here, where you wanted us to wind up. You knew where I'd hit you, didn't you?
...School's out. Bishop leaves. Steve watches him go. Stuck. Helpless. He turns back. The Owner is headed home for the day.
 Who do you think that is, Luna? He takes a card out of his wallet, studies it. It's from the flirtatious doctor. He pulls out his phone, dials.
I'll just be a minute. A GLIMPSE of the woman in her bedroom, topless in front of a vanity. She glances back, smiles warm. Laughs a little when she sees the doll.
It's for a friend. Bishop awkwardly sets the doll down near the front door, moves on, into the apartment. Restless.
I'm sorry I was away so long this time. I had some complications --
Don't be. He turns. She's emerged from the bedroom, adjusting the dress she's just pulled on. Beautiful. She comes up to him, kisses him. He doesn't respond. She backs off, moves to the kitchen to pour two wines,
You know who I saw yesterday?
You and me, the whole weekend. What would we... do? She approaches him, sexy. Touches him, intimate. He stares at her, blank. She recovers fast, moves off.
Of course why do we need that? We have each other right here.
The Owner leaps at him with the rack. Steve is BARELY able to catch the end before it impales him. The two men, BREATHING, STRUGGLING, the Owner FORCING the point lower towards Steve's face... ... Blood pools on Steve's shirt. Steve and the Owner both track it. The man is bleeding badly from the bullet wound. A split-second calculation and the man abandons the coat- rack, races across the room as Steve clambers to his feet. The man reaches the far wall, hits a RELEASE. The wood paneling slides open, revealing a CAR-15 fully automatic assault rifle with a silencer. The man grabs it, opens up! Bullets CHEW through furniture, drywall, glass searching for Steve who DIVES into the hallway, retreating as the man comes forward, firing in deadly precise BURSTS. Steve hides behind a wall which ERUPTS, blown to bits. He stumbles through a doorway into a KITCHEN.
I know, it's crazy. I don't want to pin you down. I know you need your freedom. I just... sometimes I miss you so much... He's staring at her, oddly.
What? A beat. His eyes move down to her sofa where another man's tie has been discarded. A moment, then she shakes her head, angry with herself. The pretense dropping. The real woman scooping up the tie, tossing in a drawer.
I'm sorry. Really, I am. I just... You didn't give me any warning this time.
Steve rises... and the Man is on him, kicking him. Steve, rolling away. The man PULLING him back. WHAM! WHAM! Steve takes brutal punches to the head and face. Blocks one and they GRAPPLE, rolling in the tight space of the hallway, the man coming up on top, pinning Steve's arm, SLAMMING him in the ribs. Something SNAPS. Steve SCREAMS, surges up with the man... smashing him THROUGH a small table, winding up on top of him, his hand around the owners throat... The two men... eye to eye. Fierce, deadly. Steve SQUEEZING the life out of him. The man's free arm HITTING Steve, OVER and OVER. Brutal body blows. Steve takes the punishment... continues to Squeeze... ...Finally, the man weakening. In his face... a dull resignation.
Hey, Bishop. You okay? He stares into his wine. Raises the glass to drink. His hand shakes.
Do you remember, what you wanted to be, when you were a little girl? She hears it, it wounds her. Looks down.
I'm sorry, I didn't mean... I was thinking of me. She looks up, clear eyes. She's tough.
No, it's okay. I wanted to be a Marine Biologist. I used to watch those Jaques Cousteau movies and just... dream.
What happened?
Don't worry about it this time. On the house. A beat. Then he slides the money under the box as before.
We all gotta make a living. He leaves, grabbing the doll as he goes. She watches him go, strangely. Sadness breaking through her cool.
Thank you, thank you! Bishop! Mom!
She takes off back into the living quarters of the house. The two men exchange looks, uncomfortable.
I saw that in a... I'm sorry, I probably should have asked. A small beat that says "Yes, you should have."
Don't worry about it, Bishop. You have a good night.
...Can I ask you a question? STEVE sits on his sofa in the dark, head lowered.
Go ahead.
Are you surprised to see me? Beat. Steve reaches over, turns on a table lamp as he looks up. His face is BRUISED, bloody. His clothing, stained and ripped. In his hand, Bishop's gun from the sideboard. Bishop TENSES, doesn't react. Steve spits blood, smiles.
Guy owns a watch-store, yet keeps a million dollar apartment. Supposedly sits on his ass all day, yet takes stairs double-time.
Was that the man who killed my father?
There's a code, to what we do. It may not be rational, but it matters. The man's name was Harry Xiao. He was a Mechanic. Last year a US Representative died in a fire... along with his wife and two children.
A few months ago, a CEO vacationing in Costa Rica was found dead with his wife. Because the woman was tortured, the authorities believed it was drug related.
Bishop! --
Civilian casualties are very effective at hiding intent, but there's a line ---
I don't give a damn about that! You haven't answer my question: Did he kill my father? Bishop doesn't react, then...
You should put that behind you now. Steve nods, swallowing emotion. Bishop starts to move and Steve is suddenly there, still angry, pointing the gun right in Bishop's face.
I could have died today!
You didn't.
Blind fucking luck! Look at me! You tried to kill me! That man was... he was unstoppable.
But you stopped him.
Fuck you! You sonofabitch! Give me one good reason I don't blow you away right now! ONE GOD DAMN
FAST, Bishop SLAPS the gun away, PINS Steve up against the wall. Cold.
Now I'm sorry if you got a little scared. But this isn't coaching girl's softball, is it? This is life or death. Every time you go into this, somebody dies.
Every time, it's you or the other man. So stop your crying. He releases Steve who falls to the floor, sucking air.
You got what you came for, congratulations. You're done Go back to your friends, your women, your whole beautiful life.
Bishop. Those things... they don't mean anything to me. This, makes sense. I don't know why. But I think I was meant to do this.
Almost instantly, the phone rings. Bishop punches on SPEAKER. The same silence.
We should all be so lucky. The phone goes dead. The light on the drive turns GREEN. Bishop's PRINTER fires up. It starts printing out pages... ON BISHOP and STEVE. Watching the pages feed out. PHOTOS: A new Mark at an elegant gathering of powerful men and women. Tall, powerful, entitled. His arm around a Turkish beauty in an elegant black one-piece. Emerging from a limousine at a large public event. Security EVERYWHERE. The same beauty on his arm. Charts. Height, weight, medical history. Bank accounts, figures. Leases, deeds of property. A LAST PHOTO: Peeling out of the printer... THE WOMAN, the beauty, in a diplomatic power-suit.
You get started. I'll make coffee.
Bishop... Nemesis. Devine Retribution. ...What did she do? Beat. Unsaid questions asked, unanswered.
Okay. Okay. Forget I asked.
Slow down as soon as you get inside. Security station will be to your left... Steve passes through a door, pauses as two guards talk in the open doorway to a security control room. Monitors visible.
How many views?
 Sixteen, no, eighteen. Four second intervals. One of the men notices Steve who starts forward to ask a question. The man points him down the hallway towards the consulat's reception. Steve's eyes track monitors.
Make that four and a half seconds.
These guys are packing Israeli-made Uzis. Couple are actual military. Bishop takes in the other buildings across the street, then moves his sight up the embassy, adjusts a control P.O.V. - THROUGH THE SCOPE: Large tinted glass windows suddenly turn transparent. Bishop scans, find The Mark's HUSBAND on the bed watching TV, bored. He scans again... finds The Mark in the adjoining room, on the phone and ANGRY. Bishop touches a switch on the telescope and a small LASER projects. The woman's voice fills Bishop's headset:
No, we're literally locked in here. I'm supposed to be presenting at the UN but I can't do that if everyone is going to panic about security...
...This is America. People don't just kill people here. Then she shuts the door. Bishop moves his focus upwards to a glassed-in terreriam-like structure on the rooftop. An indoor swimming pool. "Click." "Click." More pictures.
Work it again.
She never leaves. It's like they know we're coming.
Maybe they do. Steve nods, continues pacing, scoops up Bishop's cat and strokes her. Bishop watches him.
Falls off the rooftop.
Falls or jumps? Steve moves to the wall of pictures, his gaze lingering on shots of her on vacation is a swimsuit.
Nothing. I'm going for a run. You wanna come?
Let me ask you something. You ever not feel like running 5 miles?
You like it? Steve REACTS. Didn't hear Bishop come in.
I don't know. Feels disturbed.
Always made me feel... understood.
The Mark is a beautiful woman. Before arriving at her current position, she enjoyed the way men looked at her. That's gone now. She needs to be taken seriously. She hates that men only see the beauty. Magazines, heads of state, all focusing how what a piece of tail she was. Like you did. Steve SQUINTS... Bishop slaps a picture of the pool, the Mark swimming. Two SECURITY AGENTS positioned.
Why is he standing here? Wouldn't he get better coverage... here?
...He can't see her.
He can't see her. Neither of them can. Beat. PHONE RINGS. Bishop snaps it up.
Bishop.
Hey, Bishop. Catch you at a bad time? Bishop doesn't respond. Waits...
Always the conversationalist. Anyway, just calling to say we'd like you to go ahead with this one. As soon as you can. Click. Phone goes dead. Bishop hangs it up. Steve looks at him, anticipating... Bishop nods.
Run it again.
Patrol number three moves down the service corridor at 18:50. Five minute window after to make it up top. Three minute climb to position. That's 18:54. Three minute window to engage. Shake, stir, add lime and enjoy. Bishop smiles, looks away.
How'd you get into it? Bishop looks back, surprised. Checks his watch.
...This business, it's not like there's a degree you can go get. It's like most trades, it gets passed down.
My father was very good, better than I'll ever be. But no one controls 100%. The nature of the work is that some people know who you are and what you do.
I was young. It took me four months to find the people, another to find the girl, and she gave me the Man. That's how I... "got into it."
You ever wish you just... walked away? Let it go?
Sure. Every day. But I wasn't wired that way.
Here we go... And they're MOVING.
Fire in the restaurant.  Patrols two and five, we're closing down the front entrance.
Excuse me, 'mam. There's a fire next door, nothing to worry about. The Mark nods. The man locks the door behind him, crosses the room, leaves through the main door, professional.
Hey! You need to get out! Whole building is going up! Bishop and Steve move on as the startled employees leave. They move down five doors, push into...
Ready?
ACROSS THE SPACE. The indoor guard checks in on his radio. Looks up as the DOOR nearest him swings open. He rises, approaches the door, curious. Looks out. HIS P.O.V.: The rooftop, lit by security lights, the strobing of the firetrucks below. Dark shadows. He hears a RUSTLING, a BANGING. Torn, he glances backwards. Can't see the Mark in the pool from here, but can hear her strokes.
It's the second time it's come open. She still swimming?
Oh hell... The Mark floats face-up in the pool, just under the surface.
How did it go --
Not yet. As if on cue, an ALARM BLARES. Excited voices come on over an embassy wide PA System. VOICES from the next room. Bishop opens the chute again as Steve cracks a glowstick, puts it between his teeth, swings his legs in, and DROPS. ACROSS THE ROOM. The door to the dressing room opens, armed guards flood in, along with Embassy officials speaking on radios. The room is empty.
Alright, you gotta admire that. You gotta admit, we are a spooky good team...
It's like one moment we're there... the next moment... He ROLLS UP the door. STARES at a NEW WALL OF CEMENT BRICKS.
...we're fucked. Bishop takes in the problem, starts to solve it. He tracks left right, considering options...
There wasn't any sign of this on the plans. I went over them fifty times!! This isn't supposed to be here! This can't be here! Bishop holds up a finger. "Shhhhhh" They LISTEN. A soft "beeping." Both men PEER around the edge of the metal door to where a small box with a red light BLINKS.
Bishop... what do we do!?
Duck... Steve looks at Bishop and BOOM! Doors BLOW OPEN, THREE GUARDS burst through, machine guns raised and SPITTING... Steve hits the deck. Watching Bishop, it's like everything we've seen so far was in slow motion. This is the real thing, unleashed. Bishop WRAPS the first man up, uses his Kevlar vest as a shield to catch the fire from the other two. The man SCREAMS as his arm breaks. Bishop gets control of his weapon, focuses it on the other two. One is BLOWN back. The other DIVES for cover. Fluid, Bishop REVERSES the man, pushes him AWAY from him, coming up with TWO of the man's Flash-bangs in each hand. Each hand DIALS the grenade's timers to two different settings, simultaneously POPPING the levers. Second attacker FIRES a burst which Bishop DUCKS, the bullets stitching across the first attacker, SLAMMING him back, his rounds TEARING into the ceiling, showering Steve in debris. Bishop THROWS the first grenade which reaches the attacker just as he rises for another shot. BOOM!
Hey! Hey! You still here?
...It was my fault. I was in charge of the exit. I looked at every work order, every entry in the building logs...
No one controls 100% That's the nature of the beast. Steve swallows, nods as Bishop brings the Buick around a last corner, ACCELERATING at the closed gate in front of them, a Turkish guard waving his arms frantically...
Hey! You did good in there. You hear me?. It was asking a lot. You came through. Steve nods, processing, accepting. Another TURN. Bishop slides the car to a stop in a covered lot. Across from them, Bishop's own Cobra waits. Behind them, the police car tears by, lost.
You're bleeding.
...Yup.
So back there. That was one hundred percent? Bishop looks over, gives nothing. Tiny smile.
Do you think you know it, when you've made the mistake you won't survive? Or will it be like the Marks? Wake up on top of the world, never know...
...Oh my God. This is a signed Hendrix Axis, 1967 release. This has gotta be worth... we have to play this. You have to play this.
 That one... is for a special moment. Haven't found it yet.
You haven't found the... Are you kidding? You have to -- what? Bishop's eyes SHOOT open. He looks out the window where a series of SEDANS are pulling up. Men get out, approach.
This could get... interesting.
Mr. Bishop? Mr. Dean would like a moment of your time. Off Bishop who... nods.
Do it. I don't care what it costs.
You look like shit.
He's going to be working with me from now on.
You sure that's wise?
Do I need your permission?
No... And for the record, I don't believe you'd ask for it. Dean grabs a remote control on his desk, points it at the set of flatscreens on the wall which hum to life, muted. News reports featuring the killing of the Turkish Embassador. Shots of the woman, smiling. Helicopter shots of the pool structure. Words scroll: "Terror on our soil." "Assassination!" "US Envoy ejected from Turkey..."
The mistake was mine, not the kid's.
I am on some very fucking thin ice right now which means you are on some very fucking this ice as well.
Someone I trained. That could be worth a lot to you. Dean laughs, rises with nervous energy and goes to the interior blinds, raises one. From here they can see out over the office. Glimpses of a dozen conversations. Other men and women at work. More than a couple glance over towards Dean's office. A predatory vibe.
And here I thought we were both going to live forever. Bishop smiles. Dean stares at him. Bishop stares back. Suddenly, this becomes the moment, the decision...
You know, in this business, you only get one mistake.  So nothing more like that. You take full responsibility.
Yes. The two men, face to face. Then Dean's phone rings. He turns to it, snaps it up.
The hit, on the woman. What was the reason? Dean looks back, surprised, angered.
You know, this foul-up, McKenna's son, it's all got some people's panties in a real twirl.
Come on, baby. What's the matter? Finally, something does catch his attention: At the gate, a DHL Van pulling up, the driver heading toward him. Steve lowers his glasses.
Steve! Steve...!?
Bishop tense, in his study, holding the phone which rings... rings... Steve's voice comes on the voicemail: "Hi, this is Steve. You know what to do."
Bishop, sitting on his couch. On the TV in front of him, images from a protest in Turkey, an American flag burning. Bishop's eyes flick to the stack of DVDs from the woman. No. He keeps watching the news images. His phone rings. He snatches it up.
Bishop.
You're still alive.
Seems that way.
Hey, can you meet me? Something I want to talk with you about. Bishop, silent.
It's important. Come up to the house. Please, okay?
Okay.
There you are. Thanks for coming.
What's on your mind? Steve just smiles, shakes his head. Bishop stares at him, tense, confused. Each trying to read the other. Then Steve raises a bottle of whiskey to his mouth, drinks. Bishop takes a step forward and... ... LIGHTS WASH THE SPACE! Explosions! SOUND FILLS THE AIR!
Bishop ducks, rolls, his hand moving under his jacket... ... but not coming out with his gun. He takes in a surprise party, opening in front of him. Beautiful woman, LAUGHING, blowing horns. Men, pouring champagne. STREAMERS falling to the ground where seconds before they blew into the air, a large BANNER, illuminated behind Steve: "HAPPY BIRTHDAY ARTHUR!" And Steve, standing on the board, master of ceremonies, staring back at Bishop... oddly cool, dispassionate. Then he smiles. Bishop rises. Women come to him, touch him, put a party hat on him and give him small kisses with wishes of "Happy Birthday" as he moves to the pool edge across from Steve.
It's not my birthday.
When was the last time you celebrated your real birthday? No response from Bishop. Steve nods, swigs the bottle again. He's lit, something fierce and fiery in his eyes.
See? You're overdue, buddy.
Who are these people?
They think you're a friend of mine, a producer, from Canada.
God, I love those. Which ones --
Mr. KcKenna has a creative relationship with the truth. I don't actually... The model glances around, unsure...
Oh, okay. That's funny. So what do you do?
Yes, Mr. Bishop. What do you do? Bishop doesn't respond. He's just staring down. BISHOP'S P.O.V.: Discarded, lying beneath the sofa the models are perched on: The tear-strip from a DHL Envelope.
Come on, Mr. Bishop. We're all waiting. Bishop looks up at Steve who SMILES back. A beat, and then Bishop is up and moving through the crowd, pushing by people LAUGHING, DANCING. He almost runs into a bright blue-haired woman on the arm of a jockish RAPPER.
Excuse me... He comes up short, realizes he's staring into the face of the Woman. She's utterly different than we've seen her. Tonight, she's the clubbing party-girl. Dark lipstick, bright blue wig, heavy eye-liner.
Hi.
Hi... This is strange. The Rapper she's with has found a group of his buddies. High- fives all around. He glances around for his date...
Is he your...?
No, just a job.  I have to...
I know. Go on. She nods, turns away. He also turns, starts moving through the crowd, pushing through DANCING BODIES... ... and suddenly she's back with him. No words. Lights and sound and dance around them. She leans forward, kisses Bishop once. Backs off, smiles, turns away and makes her way back to the guy she came in with who tucks her under his arm without missing a beat, mid-story with his posse. Bishop... staring. Turns away as the MUSIC STOPS. Steve's voice fills the outdoor space, amplified.
Ladies and gentlemen! The man of the hour! A SPOTLIGHT hits Bishop. He squints up as the crowd makes space for him. Steve's near the DJ, speaking on a mic.
I know that not many of you know my friend. My good, dear... friend. I mean, he's a man of few words... And he's an art lover! Did you know that? His home is covered with work. It's amazing, what you can find in there. Amazing. A weird beat. Steve, smiling fierce.
Happy birthday, Arthur. Behind Steve, a covered object. Steve now turns to it, pulls the cover off a PORTRAIT of Bishop, clearly done by the Artist he collects. The image is twisted, vivid, disturbing. As the crowd erupts in APPLAUSE the ARTIST himself now comes forward, Steve's arm around his shoulder and bumping fists before the Artist heads on towards Bishop, shaking Bishop's hand. Faces BEAM. People CLAP. On Bishop, just looking at Steve who stares back... unreadable.
Hey, you forgot something. Steve's there, holding the portrait. Bishop nods, takes it.
Sorry... Sorry for leaving. I'm just not used to --
No worries, man. It's your party. You can leave it.
What's that?
This thing we do. Finally, you always do it alone. Bishop nods unconsciously, starts towards his car, forces himself to stop.
Steve... thank you.
Uh-oh. I can feel some male bonding coming. We gonna hug it out, Bishop?
No, I'm serious. Thank you. People don't... Anyway, it's been a long time, since someone did something for me. Steve looks back, nods. Strangely dark.
Happy Birthday, Arthur. Steve raises a hand, shoots Bishop with a finger. A wink, and he turns and is gone, back to the party. Bishop climbs into his car, pulls away.
I despise each and every one of you! MORE SHOUTS, LAUGHTER. Steve LEAPS out into space. Perfect huge swam dive... falling... HITTING the water. A moment of silence... did he? Was that deep enough...? Steve ERUPTS out of the water. Party ROARS back into life.
Hey! Hey baby! Karen's got some amazing E. You need to come try... Steve turns those cool eyes on her. She shrinks. We think he might slap her, then:
Give me a moment. I'll be right there. We'll do that amazing E. And he looks away, back down over the view. A resigned loneliness settling into his features.
Bishop approaches... takes it in. Touches "Accounts" and the window SPREADS OUT across the whole wall. Multiple windows, all of Bishop's money, displayed in real time, the numbers subtly changing with the flow of foreign markets. Another window above is labeled "Associates." Bishop touches this one and the financial windows are replaced with a collage of FACES. Not too many. We recognize the Store Owner and his Daughter. Steve himself. An older man "Gerald Bishop," Bishop's father. And a photo of the Woman. Bishop touches the woman and multiple images propagate out from the single. Many stills, but several are in motion, looping: Childhood movies. A commercial done as a teen. A blue movie when she was 20. Bishop's eyes settle on a video image: He and the woman, caught just an hour ago in the middle of the dancing party. The woman leaning to him, kissing him. Bishop stares at the image, then touches another image labeled "Residence." INSTANTLY, the images are replaced with images of the interior and exterior of Bishop's home. Bishop stares at them, confused. SQUINTS... realizing that in one of the images, the trees lightly sway in the breeze.
Huh. His eyes dart to an image of his DINING ROOM. It looks like a still, until suddenly Bishops' cat passes through the frame. Bishops' eyes dart, moving from frame to frame. The whole interior of his life. His living room, bedroom, study, gym. All live feeds.
Son of a bitch...
Come on, Steve. We need you.
Whiskey. Neat. Lots of it. Bishop fumbles in his pocket, brings out a thick wad of cash. $100s and $20s. Eyes track. At a booth, two EX CONS lock onto Bishop, one sporting a middle-finger raised FU tattoo on his bare shoulder. Bishop pushes $100 forward.
That's too much. Bishop grabs the shot, down it. Pushes the empty shot and the cash back at the bartender.
I'm not going anywhere.
...More. WHAM! WHAM! Bishop takes the punches, no defense. Face punished. The guy backs off, slightly winded.
Dude, you don't want any more, give us that money. Bishop shakes his head. WHAM! WHAM! Two more hits to the body. Bishop just keeps taking the punishment. Seems to relish it. Spits blood.
Look, I'll give you my money, but you have to promise me you won't spend it all on lipstick and tampons. Ex Con #2 pulls a gun, puts it to Bishop's head.
...Thank you.
Hello? Bishop? He enters the study, sees the WALL, the night's work. In the center, a photograph of Dean, Bishop's boss.
There you are. Bishop is leaning in from outside. Nods to Steve.
So who is he?
...US Government. NSA. Very well protected.
What happened to you?
You should see the other guy. Bishop TOSSES Steve an object, goes back outside. Steve looks at it. A WELDER'S helmet with visor.
What's that?
This... is liquid Semtex with a built in combustible. Very volatile. Nice and shiny once it dries. But don't... scratch it. Bishop takes a knife, scratches the surface of the coin-sized disc, then backs off, by Steve, back into
So that's how we take him out?
 No. That's just to focus the mind.
You makes bombs to focus your mind.
What do you do?  This one's different. They want it fast, and they don't want it to look like an accident. Someone wants to send a message.
Like with my father.
Yes. Like that.
Didn't think that was your style.
Jesus... Bishop puts a hand out.
There's something I haven't told you.
What?
...I broke a rule. I brought you in without asking. So this hit, is a test. Of us, of our arrangement.  If that man is breathing three days from now... then they'll need to make an example of us. Do you understand? Steve ... nods. Takes Bishop's hand who pulls him up.
So what you're saying is you and I are stuck with each other.
I'm sorry.
...For what?
For getting you into this --
I knew what I was doing. Bishop considers, nods.
Get packed.
Bishop steps back, lets Steve take the first look. Bishop takes notes.
...I count six... no seven at the main door. P.O.V. THROUGH THE TELESCOPE: The front entrance of the NSA building. The security check Bishop went through.
Jesus they've got US Marines in there. Two at the door, one... maybe another two out of sight. Bishop considers Steve, locked to the telescope, the sharp point of the pen in his hand...
Fifth floor, corner office. P.O.V. THROUGH THE TELESCOPE: Steve finds Dean, at his desk, talking on the phone. Animated.
... Alright, got him. He's at his desk. We could take the shot right from here.
Glass is three inches thick... Steve moves his hand to turn on the laser Bishop used before to listen with...
And has laser sensors.
Alright, fine. What are we doing here? Who is this guy? P.O.V. THROUGH THE TELESCOPE: Dean shouts into the phone, slams it down. Leaves his office. Bishop pulls away from the telescope, hunkers down to wait.
Starting to get it?
Yeah, I'm getting that this isn't a job. It's just a really complicated... suicide. Bishop smiles. Steve moves off, restless.
You know, you can front sonofabitch all you want, Bishop. You're scared, too. You don't really know how we're going to pull it off, do you? You ever think there's some things that just can't be done?
Everyone has a death --
Really? Because, this guy? I look at this guy, I don't see his death. I see my death. And I don't particularly like the view. Bishop notes the lights going back on in Dean's office, returns to the telescope and starts jotting notes in a book. P.O.V. THROUGH THE TELESCOPE: Dean back at his desk. He looks exhausted.
And you know, as much as I like the quality time, unless you can read lips, I don't exactly see what we're doing here...
You read lips. Bishop glances at Steve, puts his eye back to the camera. P.O.V. THROUGH THE LENS: EXTREME CLOSE on Dean's desk. A piece of paper on the blotter. "Click." "Click." Bishop pulls the memory-card from the camera.
Everybody out. I'm serious. Get the fuck off my property. A moment, then people start to flee. Only Louise, drink in hand, moves towards Steve, confused.
Steve, baby...?
You, too.
Did you get it?
It's the US Attorney's office in New York. He's running. He's trying to get out. Steve, trying to read Bishop's face, ZOOMING in.
Do you think we're hitting him because of what he's done, or because he's trying to get away with what he's done?
Does it make a difference?
...No, I don't suppose it does. A beat. The two men, far separated.
Do the angles. Find us a shot.
Security's going to have the actual street locked down. But there's a residential street, perpendicular.
High-end people. They'll put up with a sweep, but they're not going to allow an agent to spend the day. They reach an address. Bishop puts on a hat, some sunglasses, slaps a badge onto his jacket that reads "DC Municipal Utilities." He trots up the the half-flight, rings the bell of an elegant brownstone.
Besides, the angle isn't right, too flat. Except when they hit the stairs. It'll spread the group vertically. It's... the shot. Steve and Bishop work in quiet efficient silence. Each opens their bag, removes a series of innocuous objects, begins to dismantle them for the more important parts they conceal. From a clock, a firing mechanism. From the tube, an aluminum barrel holds a fishing rod. The rod is discarded, the barrel is attached to a hard plastic stock. AA Batteries are opened and slender shells are removed from each. As this strange choreography continues in silence, we PAN ACROSS to the dining room where a WOMAN and a MAN are bound and tied, pillowcases cinched over their heads. Their bindings allow them to hold each other's hands which they do, tight. They're terrified, but okay. Back in the living room, Bishop adds the last piece to the home-made rifle, a telescope, lifted from a child's gift box, snaps it on top of the rifle.
Look, I don't care. Find her, I need to talk to her right now...
You ever worry about the right and wrong of it all? I'm not talking about God, just...  Whatever you feel here. BISHOP'S P.O.V. THROUGH THE SCOPE: The US Attorney building. The security detail. The steps leading to the street.
It's a little late for --
Come on. You're telling me you've never done anything just because it was the right thing to do, even if it didn't make any sense? You never took a chance like that? Bishop pulls his eye away from the scope a touch.
Once I did...
How'd that work out for you? Beat. Then suddenly Bishop's view is obscured by a large truck, which has stopped trying to make the turn.
We have a problem... Bishop moves the scope, precisely looking for alternatives. Nothing. He sets the rifle down, thinking as Steve takes in the new situation.
There's no shot. What do we do? There's no shot.
Bishop...? And Bishop's out.
On your four. You see him? Coming up, a MAN in a jogging suit stretches, touches his ear where's he's wired. Steve and Bishop come abreast of him. WHAM! Steve pushes him down into the garbage alley between two homes. WHAM! WHAM! The man drops. Steve comes back, the man's gun palmed. Offers it to Bishop.
No. You're the shooter.
When?
You'll know when. WITH THEM, MOVING, taking the corner onto the main street in front of the large building.
Just go -- no, don't tell me where. Just go, okay. Okay? Yes, I'll call you soon, I gotta go...
...Bishop? Bishop does NOTHING. Security reads Dean's fear, closes on Bishop even as Dean himself starts to BACK AWAY, separating himself from his own security, now turning to RUN... ... Straight into Steve, gun raised. A small moment frozen in time as Dean understands his end... BANG BANG! - BANG! Steve double-taps Dean in the chest, then one to head. And CHAOS begins its rule. Security which were closing on Bishop now REVERSE, draw weapons and FIRE at Steve who drops down in the small cement crease between stairs and statues. ON STEVE. Ducked low, bullet shattering granite and marble around him, LAUGHING. The first glimpse of something WRONG inside this young man.
Get in. Security are standing up, opening up, as Steve DIVES forward.
Thanks.
Behind you. Steve has half a second to puzzle this one as the Driver grabs him from behind, HAULS him backwards. Bishop eyes his mirrors, counting the number of vehicles pursuing. Eyes makes calculations, gets distracted for a moment from the RAGING FISTFIGHT between Steve and the Driver occurring in the rear compartment.
Get in front.
Working on that...
Now! Bishop HAULS UP the E-Brake, putting the Limo into a SPIN. The shift in force tosses Steve and Guard across the rear space. Steve dives forward towards the front as...
We have got to go! Steve's pointing at the rear exit. It looks far away.
You go for it, I'll cover you. Bishop takes in the exit, the gun in Steve's hand...
I'm sorry I brought you into this.
Not now, Bishop, we have to --
It was... It was the only thing I knew how to teach you. Steve looks at him oddly, moved. Then...
Don't worry about it, Bishop. I brought myself into this. Bishop considers this, nods. And he's UP AND FIRING towards the SWAT.
Go!
Both men DIVE to the ground, roll even as they switch to single-shot mode to preserve ammo. BANG BANG BANG, they fire back at their attackers, precise, as the cops open up.
...Why?
You don't know? Tense beat. Glimpsed through shattered windows, SWAT arrives, takes the perimeter. They're being surrounded. Suddenly an SUV pulls into view between the restaurant and the SWAT and Police position, a confused and frightened WOMAN at the wheel. Police SHOUT at her, confusing her more. Steve makes a decision. Lowers his weapon, grabs a napkin, ties it to hide his features.
Cover me. And with that Steve is RUNNING towards the outside...
ON BISHOP. Angry like we've never seen him. Cold. Furious. The stupid waste of it all. He meets the woman's gaze. She dies looking at him. Helicopters clatter above, bullets plink into dishware and hardwood. Bishop just stares at the woman for a long beat, then he turns away, back into the building. It is... over.
...Something is wrong in this country. But today because of the actions of a few cowardly men, we may never know the true face of -- A voice announces boarding, drowning out the TV. Bishop collects his things.
WHAM! Bishop hits Steve with the fridge door, knocks the gun out of his hands, it skitters along the floor. Bishop moves towards it, Steve swings a knife. Bishop catches the blow, but Steve HAULS down on the bad shoulder. Bishop SCREAMS as something gives, stumbles back as Steve swings again, Bishop turning, catching the blade in his shoulder.
You know, when they came to me... I said "Are you sure?" Bishop?" But They're right, aren't they?
...You don't really like the work anymore. Bishop's voice comes from the darkness near the barn.
Maybe not. BLAM! BLAM! Steve SHOOTS as Bishop MOVES, finds cover.
Yeah. That's... what did you call it? That's a prerequisite.
If it matters, today we killed the man who ordered the hit on your father.
Yeah, but not the man who actually killed him. Steve advances, clearing the side of the barn, LINES his weapon on Bishop, who's standing next to the barn.
Why'd you kill those other people?
 You really going moral high ground on me? Seriously? You might want to check your soapbox there, partner.
There's no weapons in there, Bishop! I've... what did you teach me? I've controlled the situation. One hundred percent. BOOM! The barn door blast outwards as Bishop's vintage Mustang come careening out of the barn at Steve... Who STANDS HIS GROUND. He aims, fires five times through the windscreen. The rounds IMPACTING Bishop as the car LOOMS at Steve who steps aside at the last moment, the car barely missing him, continuing on and IMPACTING against the side of the house... the propane tank. Steve squints and BOOOOOM! The propane tank ERUPTS in flame. Steve is knocked back. When he rises, the interior of the car is an inferno. The body is slumped against the wheel, the fire consuming him, cleansing him. Steve. Bleeding, bruised, victorious.
Steve moves to his computer and punches in the password. On the wall-sized screen, the Bishop research glows to life. All the connections, people, history that made Bishop. Bishop's cat jumps into his lap, purring, and Steve strokes her. Finally, a decision. He hits a button and the prompt "DELETE FILE?" Appears on the screen.
...Steve, if you hear this, then it means you found the right moment to play the record. Good for you. It also means you had to scratch the needle across the surface of the record. Steve's eyes LOCK on the record player, the needle scratching across its surface, from the surface of the record, the smallest trace of smoke...
Sorry it has to end this way. Steve's eyes dart to the portrait of Bishop. Its cold eyes stare back.
Every man has a death that's right for them. Every one. ... where a form, a heat shadow, has burnt into the charred remains of a shirt. A fist, middle-finger raised. We know this tattoo. It was on the ex-con who tried to mug Bishop outside the bar. This is not Bishop.
A death so right that when it arrives, those who knew him will say "Yes, this is right..."
"...This was always going to happen this way." Bishop gets out. Shaved, healthy, clean. He climbs onto the roof of the car, stares at the highway which winds away into the distance. Freedom, laid out before him. He stares at it, wanting, needing. He blinks.
