This is Harvey Milk speaking on Friday November 18th. This is to be played only in the event of my death by assassination... REVEAL: HARVEY MILK, 48, sitting at his kitchen table in a cluttered San Francisco apartment.
During one of the early campaigns, I started opening my speeches with the same line and it sort of became my signature...
Hello, I'm Harvey Milk, and I'm here to recruit you.
If I was speaking to a slightly hostile or mostly straight audience, I'd try to break the tension with a joke...
I know, I know, I'm not what you were expecting, but I left my high heels at home. Harvey gets a LAUGH from the AUDIENCE.
I fully realize that a person who stands for what I stand for - an activist, a gay activist - becomes the target or potential target for a person who is insecure, terrified, afraid or very disturbed themselves...
As President of the Board of Supervisors, it's my duty to make this announcement. Both Mayor Moscone and Supervisor Harvey Milk have been shot... and killed. GASPS from the REPORTERS. Dianne struggles to be heard.
Police are looking for a suspect... Supervisor Dan White.
Something has happened.
Knowing that I could be assassinated at any moment, I feel it's important that some people should understand my thoughts. I think that--  I wish I had time to explain everything I did. Almost everything that was done was done with an eye on the gay movement.
Hey. I'm Harvey.
 Okay, Harvey...
Today's my birthday.  No, today is actually my birthday. Well, tonight. At midnight.
Really?
And, believe it or not, I don't have any plans. People took me out after work...
 Work? So, that would be... Let me guess. Ma Bell or AT&T.
The Great American Insurance Company. I'm part of the big, evil, corporate establishment that, let me guess, you think is the cause of every evil thing in the world from Vietnam to diaper rash.
You left out bad breath. Falling for it, Harvey covers his mouth. Scott laughs. They both smile, realizing they share a wry sense of humor. A TRAIN IS COMING, Harvey has to work fast.
So... You're not going to let me celebrate my birthday all by myself are you?
 Listen, Harvey, you're kind of cute for a suit... But I don't do guys over forty.
Well then, I'm in luck.
How's that?
Because I'm still thirty-nine...  And it's only eleven-fifteen.
Where are you from?
Jackson, Mississippi.
Well, this isn't Jackson, but you still can't respond to every strange man you meet on a subway platform. It's too dangerous.
Now you tell me.
There's nothing tougher than a New York City cop. They're arrogant, and they're everywhere. I'll show you the cruising spots, if you want, if you promise you'll be careful... little Scottie-san.
Are you on uppers or what?
No. This is just... plain old me.
You're afraid of the cops?
I'm just discreet. I know a lot of people here. If they found out, I could lose my job.
 Oh. You're one of "those."  I think you need a change of scenery. New friends.
I need a change.
 You're forty now.
 Forty years old and I haven't done a thing I'm proud of.
 You keep eating like this and you'll be a fat ass by fifty.
 No. Don't you worry. I won't make it to fifty. Scott distracts him, playful, like a newlywed at a wedding, he rubs a slice of pie in Harvey's face. Harvey reacts. Wipes the pie from his eye, and tackles his young, frisky new lover. They kiss. The mess getting everywhere. Harvey brushes it out of Scott's hair.
(an idea, half-jokingly,
Why don't we run away together?
Where to?
In those days, San Francisco was the place where everyone wanted to go... To drop out... To fall in love...
But by 1972, The Haight was boarded up. Crime-filled. Drug-filled. The new place for us refugees was this run down Irish Catholic neighborhood in Eureka Valley. Six blocks square... The Castro.
I cashed my last unemployment check yesterday...
Well, I hope you did something useful with it.
I bought an ounce of pot. I was just wondering if you had any
plans, or thoughts... About us doing something to, you know, bring in an income.
Don't move. Harvey straddles Scott. He begins SNAPPING PHOTOS of him.
I suppose I can wait tables.
No way. I want you right here with me... Did you see place downstairs is for rent?
Yeah.
I was thinking we could open a shop together.
What kind of shop?
One with very little overhead. Not too much work... A little one, just like Morris and Minnie Milk of Woodmere, New York...
Harvey is out on the sidewalk directing Scott who is inside the store's large window hanging a sign: "CASTRO CAMERA."
Just a little to the left... The old liquor store owner from earlier, MCCONNELLY, crosses the street to watch. Harvey gives him a warm welcome:
Hello there. I'm Harvey Milk.
You're the new renters?
Yes. Welcome to Castro Camera.
I want to join the, um... What is it? The Eureka Valley Merchant's Association. I want to help in any way possible. I'm no interloper. A Jew perhaps, but I hope you'll forgive that. McConnelly looks from Harvey to Scott in the window.
I don't think your application will be approved, Mr. Milk. This is a family neighborhood. Your kind are far more welcome on Haight street.
 What "kind" do you mean, sir?
 The Merchant's Association will have the police pull your license if you open your doors.
Based on what law?
There's man's law and there's God's law in this neighborhood and in this City. The San Francisco Police force is happy to enforce either.
 Thanks for the warm welcome to the neighborhood!
We pay taxes you know! Harvey grabs Scott's hand... keeps him from heating up, from pouncing. It's not the time for them to bite yet.
We'll form our own business association! Start with the gay- owned businesses... We'll take down the addresses of every customer that comes in for a roll of film. We'll ask them what they want to see done here... what they want changed... We'll get money rolling into this neighborhood. Revitalize it...
Can I come in now?
One more minute!  I'll go to the neighborhood banks. They must have some gay customers.
Harvey. What's with all this political activist crap? I thought you were a goddamn Republican. Harvey walks into the small dining room holding two plates of food. He sets them out on a small dining room table, still rambling on to Scott in the bedroom.
I'm a businessman, Scott. I think businesses ought to treat their customers right. Even their gay customers. For God's sake, this is San Francisco!
Harvey. It's just like every other city in this country. People hate us. Big surprise.
We should have at least one block in one city right? Start there and take over the neighborhood.  Okay, you can come in now! Scott heads toward the kitchen. The table is LAID OUT with a home-cooked meal, CANDLES and a huge bouquet of FLOWERS.
Wow. This is--
Happy birthday! Scott chases Harvey around the apartment, trying to smear some of the CREAM PIE onto him.
Thanks for joining the Castro Village Association! Harvey arrives at A LONG LINE OF GAY MEN winding out of the Irish liquor store . He squeezes past them, into the store, leaving Scott outside.
Excuse me gentleman... ladies.  Hello! Mr. McConnelly! McConnelly, at the register, is overwhelmed with all the new business.
I just wanted to stop in and see how business was doing.
Fine.
So you don't mind all these homosexuals in here, do you? McConnelly grins, uncomfortable. The line of gay men is curious about the hubbub. Point made, Harvey does a 180.
No. No. Just a joke. Mr. McConnelly here loves our kind. Spend away!  Tell your wife Hello for me. Harvey spots Scott in the crowd and PULLS HIM TOWARD HIM, KISSING HIM ON THE MOUTH. It's quite the show. They step back out onto the street where an Irish band is now playing. Gay men watch. Some clap. Harvey grabs Scott and spins him through a sharp waltz. OFF the pair at home in their new neighborhood.
And people started hanging around our store. Not customers. Activists, kids, folks who needed a home away from home...
There was Danny Niccoletta, a cute art student who I'd picked up at Toad Hall. Turns out he was also good at running the Camera Shop... something Scott and I found we had surprising little interest in... ON DANNY NICCOLETTA, young, waif-like, somewhat helpless.
Opera is passe, Harvey. It's about street theater, now.
What you're not getting is the spectacle of it, the bigger than life emotions... Danny jumps up and IMITATES the LARGER THAN LIFE GESTURES of an opera diva, making Harvey laugh.
Jim Rivaldo. A great mind. A great wit. A Harvard graduate, which nobody cared about, in those days, in the Castro... including himself. JIM RIVALDO flops down into the vintage dental chair that sits in front of Harvey's desk. He seems to be looking for something to occupy his keen mind. A sharply dressed young man, 20s, DICK PABICH, walks up to peek over his shoulder.
And somewhere along the line Jim picked up a protege, a cute political kid from Wisconsin... Dick Pabich... And of course there was Dennis Peron, who ran a very popular business with the new kids... DENNIS PERON hands Scott a FREE JOINT.
And on occasion we actually had a real customer. But only occasionally. ACROSS THE ROOM, Scott is waiting on a CUSTOMER, he's out of place: straight, gruff, a union man, ALLAN BAIRD, 40s.
Harvey... This guy wants to talk to you.
 Welcome. What can we do for you?
Hi, I'm Allan Baird. Teamsters representative, and Director of the Coors beer boycott in California.
Everyone, this is Allan Baird. He's a very big deal, so behave yourselves.
I was told you were like the Mayor of the Castro, said you organized the CVA, you might know some people in the bars.
I do have friends in awfully low places, but just so you know, it's not official yet.
What's that?
The Mayor part. I've considered gathering an army of queers to march up to City Hall and secede, but so far the young gays seem more interested in jeeps and jeans. But if I could be of any use, I'm all ears!
We can't get Coors to go union. These guys are like me, they can't be out of work too long. Harvey pulls Allan aside, away from the audience, easing his nerves. It's Harvey at his best.
I'm just curious. Are we your first stop or your last?
 It's been a tough one, Mr. Milk.
Well, you seem to have noticed that my kind of people drink a lot of beer. If we're going to fast for your sake, I think we should get to deliver some of it when you win this fight, don't you?
And allies. I'll have Coors out of every bar in the Castro by the end of the week. Deal?
 Thank you Mr. Milk.
No more Coors beer. It's gotta come out of every bar. Gay and straight.
What's he giving you?
Nothing for me. That's a convert.
A convert to what?
The cause.
I got "my people" to get Coors out of all the Gay Bars. 30 million bottles worth in San Francisco alone. Coors beer immediately fell from number 1. They caved. One week later, union man Allan Baird hired the first ever openly gay union boys to drive Teamsters trucks... We weren't just a group of pansies anymore. We had a neighborhood. We had the unions. And for the first time, we had a little bit of power.
Maybe that was the day someone first called me the "Mayor" of Castro Street.  Or perhaps I invented it myself.
Clear the sidewalk! Some of the GAY MEN move out of the COPS' way but some of them don't move FAST ENOUGH. The COPS start BEATING them. Harvey, Scott and the OTHERS try to break into the crowd, to get closer to the fight. To pull the cops off their friends. Danny HANGS BACK, snapping PHOTOS of the event. Scott SHOVES his way past the cops. A COP BRINGS HIS NIGHT STICK down hard on SCOTT'S HEAD.
...if we had someone in the government who saw things the way we see them, the way the black community has black leaders who look out for their interests--
You're gonna run for Supervisor, is that the idea?
Politics is theater. It doesn't matter if you win. You make a statement. You say, "I'm here, pay attention to me."
Harvey, you do that every time you cross the street.
Coors looks like it might cave. The union boys will owe me. Imagine if we get their vote... It'll be fun!
Fun? Harvey starts kissing him all over.
We'll make it a spectacle.
A week ago, Police officers came into our area with covered up badges and sent fourteen of our people to the hospitals, and to jail. The charges, "Blocking a Sidewalk." Like a round girl at a boxing match, Scott parades around a blown up PHOTO from his shopping cart: TWO SF COPS DRAGGING
--Let us have our tax money go for our protection and not our persecution. Worry about gun control and not marijuana control.
School supplies, seniors, not what books I read-- Scott displays an old "Muscle Boys" magazine. Harvey does a well timed take. A few hoots from the eclectic crowd.
My fellow degenerates, I would like to announce my candidacy for San Francisco City Supervisor! Scott unfurls three hand made "MILK FOR CITY SUPERVISOR" banners that lap over the sides of the shopping cart.
Public dental care for retired people... Legalize pot, vote Milk. Harvey is distracted. A young, long haired CLEVE JONES passes. At 18, he looks 15. Harvey tries for his attention:
Hey, I like the way your pants fit... Where are you from, kid?
Where's home?
Phoenix.
I'm Harvey Milk. I'm running for Supervisor. What's your name?
Cleve... Jones.
Well Mr. Jones, we should walk up to my camera shop and register you.
Fuck that. Elections of any kind are a bourgeois affectation.
Is that right? Do you trick up on Polk Street?
 If I need the cash... But I'm selective about my clients.
Tell me one thing before you get back to work then. What was it like to be a little queer in Phoenix?
I faked a lung disease to get out of PE. So what? What are you, some kind of street shrink?
Sometimes. But what I'm saying is, Phoenix can change. But we have to start with our street: rent control, police abuse, pot, parks, seniors.
 Well, good luck with all that.
You know what I think, Cleve Jones?
That you're gonna get somewhere if you keep talking?
No. That you need to do what you're good at. Be a prick. Fight City Hall. Fight the cops. Fight the people who made you come here to do what you do.
Sorry old man, I'm leaving for Spain tomorrow. Europe. Got all the cash I need in my back pocket. A GROUP OF CLEVE'S FRIENDS shout at him to join them. Harvey watches him dart across the street to his friends.
I didn't come out until very late in life. There was nobody to--
--look up to, no hope for a better life. Those that did were outcast... arrested.. suicide. And the young ones, who did escape home... and who arrive in San Francisco, and then what...
The fruit was walking home with his trick when they were jumped. REVEAL: Harvey picks a blood stained whistle up off the street, the man's last attempt to call for help.
 Name's Robert Hillsborough. Did you know him?
He used to come into my shop. Are there any witnesses?
Just the "trick." Jerry Taylor.
Jerry wasn't a trick. They were lovers.
Call it what you will. He's our only witness and he says he can't identify the attackers.
There'd be a dozen witnesses if they thought you boys had any real interest in keeping them safe.
You're the Mayor of Castro Street now, right Harvey? You really wanna help? Get your people to show some discretion on the streets, huh? HARVEY'S POV: The PARAMEDICS pull up the zipper on the body bag. We follow the zipper past the victim's bloody hands, his torso, his face.
Well, it looks like the big guns and the rich gays in San Francisco are going to back Dianne Feinstein and other straight candidates they consider "gay-friendly."
Who cares about those old queens? Scott is laying down on THE BIG RED COUCH.
Why isn't my campaign manager leading the meeting?
I'm beat, Harvey. I passed out flyers for seven hours straight.
In the bathhouse?
 People in bathhouses vote. I'm tired. I'm taking a nap. Scott heads up the stairs to their apartment. A CUSTOMER comes in. Danny quickly gathers the REVEALING PHOTOS and puts them back in the envelope.
Just checking the exposure. That a new boyfriend? He's very cute.
 Um... Thanks, Harvey.
 So who are these so-called "gay leaders?" And who appointed them? And what are you suggesting, Jim, that I'm supposed to go and solicit their endorsement? PAST HARVEY WE SEE A GRANDMOTHERLY VOLUNTEER, THELMA, opening the mail, casually reading a letter, then rising and approaching Harvey.
We're down here, on the streets, trying to help people, so where they hell are they?
David Goodstein is the publisher of The Advocate and he has a house--
A mansion--
--in Atherton.
 Harvey, you should read this. CLOSE ON THE LETTER as it goes from Thelma to Harvey.
"Harvey Milk will have a dream journey and nightmare to hell, a night of horror. You will be stabbed and have your genitals, cock, balls, prick cut off."
They probably wrote it.  Hey, If somebody tries to kill me, I'll get the sympathy vote, right? Could be just the push we need.
You think this is funny? Look at it. Reluctantly, Harvey takes the letter from Scott.
It's a complete joke. No rhythm. No humor. It's insulting. CLOSE ON THE LETTER: Someone has drawn a STICK FIGURE of Harvey being tortured - bullets, knives, fire, etc. Harvey makes a DECISION: He sticks the DRAWING to the refrigerator, the first thing he'll see in the morning.
Don't do that.
If you put it away, hide it in a drawer, it'll just get bigger and scarier. Now it's there. We'll see it every day. It can't get us.
All this energy... to make yourself a target. And what for? Something we have no chance to win. Harvey wraps his arms around him.
I keep telling you, it's not just about winning.
The "top gays" in San Francisco were David Goodstein and his lawyer sidekick Rick Stokes. David was a
rich old queen who'd bought the biggest gay magazine, The Advocate. He had it delivered to subscribers in brown paper bags so no-one would know... That's how he lived his life, covered up, discreet. Harvey and Scott are shown to the pool area by a HOUSE BOY. Statues and potted plants and expensive marble. Everything shouts "GOOD TASTE!" Scott strips off his clothes and DIVES INTO THE POOL.
I worked for a financial institution. I was very discreet. But someone spotted me at the opera, sitting in a box, next to my lover. And I was fired. That's when I decided to do something. So I bought The Advocate. And I use my money and my influence in quiet ways, to do what I can...
Endorsing straight candidates is what you think is best to help us?
Yes, if they're friendly to our cause.
But I am running for office. I'm on the ballot. I have the union rank and file, the seniors, and I could use your magazine's endorsement.
Harvey, we're like the Catholic church. We welcome converts, but we don't make them Pope the same day.
And why haven't you run?
It's too early for a gay candidate for Supervisor. Especially one from the Castro. It's bad for the community's image. Scott climbs out of the pool and sits at the table, naked and sopping wet.
What's wrong with the Castro?
Nobody works there. It's all sex and drugs and more sex and no one taking responsibility for their own problems.
The cops come into our neighborhood and beat us. They turn a blind eye if one of us is murdered.
Then we file a lawsuit against the city. We go to our political allies in City Hall...
There are no real gay allies. Yes, our friends may sense our struggle, but they can't feel it. It's not life or death for them. We need our own in office.
You can't demand acceptance overnight.
Why not? How can we ask them to respect us if we don't show ourselves some self respect, David.
The more out you make us, the more you incite them. Step back and quiet down.
Go back into the closet? Is that what you're saying? Because I know the closet. I lived in it for more years than I care to remember.  I don't need your endorsement. I'm not asking anyone for acceptance. I don't have time to ask.
For you, politics is a game, a lark. Like putting on a rock festival or staging a "love-in." You're too old to be a hippie, Harvey Milk! Harvey turns around, ready for a fight.
I'm not a candidate, I'm part of a movement. The movement is the candidate. There's a difference. You don't see the difference. But I do.
 Thanks for the swim. I'm sorry I pissed in your pool.
When the vote came in on election day... out of 32 candidates vying for 6 seats... We came in 10th. Just a handful short of being the first big eared, gay as a three- dollar-bill, cock sucker ever elected to public office.
So... I went for it again in '75... with just a few... minor... adjustments.
No. Not cute. The shoes are hideous and I hate your hair. You're not fooling anybody.
I'm not gonna let the Pacific Heights biddies write me off again because of a ponytail. I like it. Scott is horrified. Harvey pulls a pair of movie ticket stubs from its inner pocket.
Cabaret? For two? Lily, is this from one of my kind?
No, no. You won't run into the owner. He died in that suit.
This isn't sexy, Harvey. Harvey grabs Scott, kisses him. Then playful:
Too bad. No more pot, no more bath houses for me and little poo.
We ran and we lost the Supervisors race a second time in '75, but with
more votes than ever. So in 1976, against everyone's advice, I really pissed off the Democratic political power houses, because I ran against "their boy"--
--Art Agnos, a part of their "Political Machine." And this time we weren't running for City Supervisor. This time it was bigger, California State Assembly.
It's a racket. It's 1976 and you still have to be straight, white, Catholic and male to get into the San Francisco police force. It's Racist. Homophobic.
How many people do you consider enemies, Harvey? I've counted five already. Art smiles. Chuckles flutter through the audience.
You're right, Art. And many are your closest friends. You see, I don't think State Assembly seats should be awarded on the basis of service to the Democrat Machine. Machines operate on oil and grease. They're dirty, dehumanizing, and too often unresponsive to any needs but those of the operator.
Mr. Milk, I've worked for years as a social worker in this city. I know Sacramento. I know how to get done what we all need done there.
Tell me Mr. Agnos... right here in the Castro, Robert Hillsbourough was murdered for walking home with his long time partner. Stabbed,
fifteen times. The last words he heard were "Faggot, Faggot, Faggot..." And you say you're outraged, but why won't your liberal establishment return our calls? Why won't they bring these murderers to justice?
You know Harv', your whole rap's a real downer.
My God, you're handsome up close. I can't tell you how much I'm looking forward to licking you... in the polls.
Harvey. Dinner.
... get some union boys in the audience, they love me...
I can't control who's in the audience...
Harvey, you need to eat something. Now.
Ladies and Gentlemen. Our apartment is officially off limits. CHASES the VOLUNTEERS out of the kitchen, out of his bedroom... down the stairs...
Downstairs. Time to go. Go. OUT! Harvey emerges, about to intervene.
Don't say anything. For once, Harvey keeps his mouth shut. Jim and Dick sneak past Scott, sheepishly. When Scott and Harvey are alone...
Sit down and eat. Harvey and Scott eat dinner in tense silence.
If you say one thing about politics or your campaign or where you're speaking tonight or whose endorsement you need... I'll stab you with my fork I swear to God.
I just wanted to say... This is the most delicious meal I've ever eaten in my entire life. Harvey gives a warm smile. Scott gives a laugh, but he looks like he's about to lose it.
If we lose this one, it'll be just me and you again. I promise. Scott nods. That's exactly what he needed to hear.
Phoenix?  We should go inside. They do. Harvey locks the door behind them.
You staying up with me?
The election's tomorrow. I won't sleep... Was he good looking?
No. He was hideous.
Hard to tell what's worse. With me, my boyfriends usually find better looking ones to cheat with.
I thought we were gonna spend the rest of our lives together.
Guess what, Cleve Jones.
What?
You're going to meet the most extraordinary men, the sexiest, brightest, funniest men, and you're going to fall in love with so many of them, and you won't know until
the end of your life who your greatest friends were or your greatest love was.
Is that supposed to help?
Maybe a little. Or not.
I went to Spain last month... long story. In Barcelona, there was this memorial march for gay people who died under Franco. The police tried to break it up. It started a riot. A bullet ripped through a drag queens scalp, his wig flew off, but he kept fighting. There was blood literally running in the gutter.
We could have a revolution here too. But you can't just use the Castro to cruise. You gotta fight.
You think you'll win?
Winning isn't my strong suit.
Can you assemble a thousand people in an hour?
Yeah, sure.
All right, if I run again, you're my man.
If...?
Polls open in 3 hours. Lets hit the bus stops.
And we lost that Assembly Race too, which made me a bona fide three- time, political loser.
"Come to the Florida sunshine tree, great tasting orange juice naturally, orange juice with lots of vitamin c, from the Florida sunshine tree." Harvey is alone in the shop, surrounded by remnants of a celebration party that never happened. Jim Rivaldo lets himself into the store. Jim has his maps rolled up under his arm.
 We lost, but we lost by less! More votes than ever...  I remember when that used to work. I want to show you something. This is remarkable. Jim starts laying out his trusty MAPS, color coded with precinct results from that night.
The red is where you did best tonight. If we can get the initiative on district elections to pass, and we can -- we can -- our new Supervisor's District will go right up Market. Right around the Castro.
If you run for Supervisor with this new district, it's a potential landslide. You'll be the first up- front gay man elected to major office in the U.S.
I don't know if I have another one in me. Or Scott. But Harvey's gaze deceives his words. HOLD ON HARVEY - contemplating a FOURTH run for office.
A CHYRON READS: "Landslide defeat for Florida Gay Rights Law."
Tonight the laws of God and the cultural values of man have been vindicated. The people of Dade county, the normal majority, have said enough, enough, enough.
Gays in Florida can now be removed from their jobs and prosecuted if their "deviant" lifestyles are uncovered. HARVEY'S POV OUT A WINDOW: FURIOUS GAYS pour out of the bars BLOWING WHISTLES, raising TRASH CANS... It might turn into a
Gays can't reproduce, so they must recruit young people into their lifestyle...
Bryant, a spokeswoman for the orange juice industry, vowed to
bring her campaign to the rest of the country... Harvey's PHONE RINGS. He snatches it up.
Scottie?
I'm sorry sir. I um... I read about you in the paper.
I'm sorry. I can't talk right--
Sir, I think I want to kill myself.
No. You don't want to do that.
In Minnesota.
You saw me in a paper in Minnesota? How'd I look?
My folks are taking me to this place tomorrow. A hospital. To fix me.
There's nothing wrong with you. Listen to me. You don't have to hurt yourself, okay? Are you there? (only breathing from the other end) Here's what you have to do. Are you listening?
Yes.
Get on a bus. Go to the next biggest city. New York, San Francisco, LA, or even Minneapolis. It doesn't matter. Just leave.  You won't be alone. There are people out here just like you who will welcome you and love you.
You're not sick. You're not wrong. God does not hate you. Just leave.
I can't.
Yes. You can. Just get on a bus.
I can't... I can't walk, sir. I'm in a wheelchair... Sir. Are you there? Harvey FORCES HIMSELF TO SOUND CALM...
That's okay. It's going to be okay. Over the phone, Harvey hears the SOUND OF AN ADULT VOICE, someone finding the BOY on the phone, then... The LINE goes DEAD. It's all too much for Harvey. There's nothing a speech or a pep talk can do to fix this. Harvey is overwhelmed. Dick comes upstairs.
Harvey, you better come down. There's gonna be a riot. Moving in a daze, stunned by the call, Harvey digs out A BULLHORN and heads out.
Out of the bar and into the streets! Anita Bryant is coming after you!
If you can't control em', we will.
Give me permission to march them.
Where?
Anywhere.
I know you are angry. I am angry. Follow me through the streets of San Francisco to share our anger! Harvey jumps down and begins walking, not sure if the mob will follow. Finally, they do. Cleve catches up.
Are they following in back?
Yes. Where are we going?
I don't know.  We have to keep them moving. Exhaust them. March them till they drop. We can't have a riot tonight. Harvey LIFTS THE BULLHORN. He starts a marching chant. The crowd starts following along. JUMP TO: Gays glare at cops. Cops beat their nightsticks against their chests and power poles. Anger burns as Harvey marches the mob toward City Hall. Dick and Jim catch up.
They're still too hot in back. They'll burn the joint down.
Help me turn them up Van Ness. We'll go all the way to Broadway.
My name is Harvey Milk... And I want to recruit you. The CROWD ROARS APPROVAL.
I am here tonight to say, we will no longer sit quietly in our closets. We must fight. Not just in the Castro, or San Francisco, but everywhere the Anitas go. Anita Bryant did not win tonight. Anita Bryant has brought us together... She is going to create a national gay force!  And the young people in Richmond, Minnesota, or Jackson, Mississippi, or Woodmere, New York... Who are coming out and hearing Anita Bryant on television telling them that they're wrong, they're sick, that there is no place for them in this great country, in this world... They're looking to us for something tonight... (his big moment, realizing his true mission) And I say, we have to give them hope! The CROWD goes WILD. HARVEY'S SPEECH CROSSES THE CUT TO...
--Hope for a better world... Hope for a better tomorrow... Hope for a
better place to come to if the pressures at home are too great...
Hope for the worker who awakens from the American dream to find that all the jobs have left the country... We gotta give em' HOPE! PAN FACES OF TEAMSTERS - Several MINORITY FACES. CLOSE ON
 When San Francisco changed the voting rules--
--they allowed people to elect Supervisors directly from their own neighborhoods. A black neighborhood could elect an African- American. Chinatown could elect a Chinese Supervisor... And the Castro could choose me or Rick Stokes. But decent art begs for balance, right? So little district 8, two miles south of The Castro--
--promised to stay the same as ever. Conservative, Irish, Catholic and with just the right touch of poetry, they found themselves a handsome ex-cop.
I'm not going to be forced out of San Francisco by splinter groups of social radicals, social deviants, and incorrigibles. You must realize there are thousands upon thousands of frustrated, angry people such as yourselves waiting to unleash a fury that will eradicate the malignancies which blight our beautiful city.
Evelyn Lear's in town, at the Opera house in Tannhauser.
Clearly.
What if she strolls into the Castro for a cocktail?  Just one more. We can't let Rick Stokes take it.
Let Rick have it. Nobody thinks you're a fraud here, Harvey. You're not in New York, you're not a closet case asshole anymore. People respect you here. Relax for a year. Get us back on our feet.
If people are ever going to take me seriously, I have to win this one.
Since when did you care if anyone took you seriously?
Anita wants to put us all back in concentration camps. Rick Stokes is too weak to beat her back if she gets to California. I have to be in office to protect us from them.
I can't do another one.  I'll be back for my sheets. If you're not here, I'll see you in the shop next week. Scott picks up his box of clothes and starts out of the apartment. Harvey, not meaning a word:
If you leave me right now... I can find someone new.
I know. You're a catch. Scott leaves. Harvey is in shock, unable to comprehend the loss. Unable/unwilling to reverse the choice he's made.
--Ring out the old, ring in the new. This is over. Done. I don't want to see anything that say's fucking Assembly. This three-time loser faggot is running for Supervisor goddamn it! ANNE KRONENBERG, 23, parks her motorcycle outside, WALKS INTO THE CAMERA SHOP, and plants herself behind HARVEY'S DESK. Cleve, Mike, Jim and Dick are STARING at Anne.
Who the heck is she?
 Our new campaign manager. She called last week to volunteer and I asked her to help.
Help or take over? What about Scott?
We need new blood. 
Guys... Anne Kronenberg.  She's a woman... A woman who likes women. Odd, isn't it?
Hi guys. Mr. Milk... Rick Stokes isn't pulling out. He's officially filed to run against you. My friend at The Advocate says David Goodstein is backing him.
A gay candidate against a gay candidate. It's unfortunate.
They'll split the gay vote. The straights will divide and conquer.
Try to find out when they're going to announce.
You replaced Scott with a lesbian?
Anne worked on a recycling campaign up North. She's very organized.
How do you know she's not a plant from Rick Stokes' campaign?
Are you guys always this paranoid?
Yes. They take after Harvey.
Shouldn't you be doing someone's laundry?
Right after you redecorate my house.
 Sir, my girlfriends say you guys don't like women. Just asking, is there a place for us in all this, or are you scared of girls?
Gentleman, we already have a tinker bell, a lotus-blossom, Jim and Dick in your three-piece suits. We need someone to manage things. A woman this time. She's the right price, and she has bigger balls than any of you.
Just give me whatever's left over in the register at the end of the day. So should I call the Chronicle about getting US an endorsement? No? OFF the group of misfits, considering the addition.
Flanked by a PEEVED AID, Rick Stokes rushes out of the lecture hall and confronts Anne.
Young lady, you must be confused. This is my night, not Mr. Milk's.
 No, sir. I'm Harvey's new campaign manager. Anne Kronenberg.
Then you should know this race is for District 5, the Castro, not for all of your lesbian... compadres-- A tough lesbian kisses Anne and stares Rick down as she heads in. Rick looks uncomfortable around all these women.
I'm sorry. Are we distracting you, Mr. Stokes? I'd hate to screw you up on your big night. Dick runs up looking for more fliers. Taking Rick even more off his game, Dick is flirtatious.
Hi Rick, handsome suit. Annie, do you have any more hand cards?
These people are not from this area. They need to leave. Now.
Not true. Guess where we found them all, Rick? A slew of them. Way up on Valencia Street. Living right there in our district. And you see, as it turns out, Annie here is very, very popular with the ladies. Dick puts his arm around Anne. Rick is stupefied.
They've accused me of many things, but never as blatant a lie as this.
First ever newspaper endorsement.
 They endorsed you for being a good businessman? Has Scott read this? He'll piss himself.
Yeah? Go show him. 
Cleve, maybe you should go find a boy to celebrate with. Just in case.
I'm going to The Stud. Meet me out. Cleve goes. His energy is boundless. Harvey sits alone watching the bargoers return home through his front window. A bitter-sweetness lingers. A couple waves, one shouts out:
Gonna win this time, Milk? They walk on, not waiting for an answer. Then, a drunk, cute, Latino, JACK LIRA, 25, stops. He stares in at the political ads in the window. Harvey watches him sway drunk out of his mind, waiting for him to fall. The two make eye contact. Harvey smiles. Jack tries to. Harvey picks up a folding chair and walks it out to him.
 You're more handsome in the posters.
Thank you. Where do you live?
 ...Palomino's are my favorite horse. They're smart. They're fast and compact. Do you think I'm more like a Palomino or a Stallion? Jack smiles, out of his mind. Then he sits/falls down into the chair, and slides off. Harvey stands above the passed out young man. A newcomer. A wounded bird. Perfect.
My father beat me when he found out... So I came here. I stay in this man's house. But I don't like him.
Shh, it's okay, now. No one's ever going to beat you again. A long, comforting beat between them.
I love you.
 Do you even remember my name? (a beat, Jack shakes his head, he can't remember) Harvey.
I love you, Harvey.
And for the first time in my life, it all came together... the union boys, the women, the seniors, the minorities... All of the us's showed up...
We just want to congratulate him.
I'm sorry. We're all full.
 Harvey! Harvey!
It's too crowded. Sorry! JACK LIRA shoves his way toward the door...
Harvey! Harvey PULLS JACK INSIDE, right past Goodstein and Stokes. Harvey CATCHES A GLIMPSE OF SCOTT OUTSIDE...
Scottie--? But Scott fades into the CROWD. Harvey (with Jack at his side) is pulled back into the party.
 The new Mrs. Milk. I give it a week.
 Harvey, is this all for you? Are you this famous?
No, darling. We do this all the time. Do you like it? Jim is calling out NAMES of the OTHER WINNERS.
Carol Ruth Silver... Gordon Lau... It's the most liberal Board in years!
What about Dan White? Did he win?
I have to be. That's what I was elected for. I have to be there to open up the dialogue for the sensitivities of all people, all their problems, the problems that effect this city effect all of us.  Thank you San Francisco! Thank you!
I, Harvey Milk, do solemnly swear that I will support and defend the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of California against all enemies, foreign and domestic; and that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter and during such time as I hold the office of Supervisor, City and County of San Francisco. Bulbs FLASH. A light rain begins to fall. Umbrellas go up.
Anita Bryant said gay people brought the drought to California. Looks to me like it's finally started raining! Cheers. Harvey is emboldened.
This will be the first time in many years that we've seen so many new faces on the Board of Supervisors. Do you think such diversity will cripple the Board?
The name of the game on the Board is six votes to get anything passed. So, like it or not, Dan and I are now in bed together... politically speaking. THE CAMERA REVEALS SCOTT watching the program. He's been up all night.
I've assured Harvey here that my brochure's comments about "social deviants" referred more to junkies than to his people. See, I'm about to have my first child. I have to make sure this city remains a decent place to raise him.
How long were you a fireman, Dan?
A couple of years.
And before that... You were a police officer? Dan studies Harvey suspiciously... What's his point?
You have something against cops?
No. They tend to have something against me.
 But firefighters. Now those are true heroes... They supported me in the last campaign. I support them fully.
I appreciate it.
I meant what I said. I'd like to work together. Dan hesitantly accepts Harvey's handshake. It's a step.
 I'll see you at the office, Mr. Milk.
What do you think of my new theater?
A bit over the top.
What's with the suit?
I got it from a friend. Harvey leads Cleve from the elevator to the grand staircase.
When you come here, I want you to wear the tightest jeans possible. Never blend in. And no elevators. Ever. Always take the stairs, you can make such a grand entrance going up the stairs.
And street talk only around Feinstein. Shit, goddamn, fuck,
all that. It bugs the hell out of her. They arrive at his Lead Aide's desk: it's Anne Kronenberg.
Morning Annie, let's set Cleve up on mail.
Will do.
Come into my office...
The first order of business that will come out of this office is a city wide Gay Rights Ordinance. Just like the one Anita shot down in Dade County. What do you think, Lotus Blossom?
I think it's good. Not great.
Then make it brilliant. I want Anita's attention here. In San Francisco. I want her to bring her fight to US... This Bill needs a unanimous vote. We need headlines.
Dan White won't vote for this. Harvey puts his fingers to his lips and points down the hall, indicating Dan is down there. Harvey whispers:
Dan's fine. He's just uneducated. We can teach him. Dan pops his head into Harvey's office.
Harvey, committee meets at 9:30. Oh, hi Michael, Jim.  Hey, did you get the invitation to
my son's christening? I invited a few of the other supes as well.
I'll be there.
Great! All smiles, Dan leaves. Cleve mocks him. OFF Mike Wong's expression: THAT WAS BIZARRE.
Are you going?
Hey. I'll let him christen me, if he'll vote for my Gay Rights Ordinance. We need allies. We need everyone.
Jack?
Welcome home, Harvey! I hope you're hungry. I only know how to cook one thing, but I make it good.
Did you... break in?
I asked the boy downstairs to let me in...
Danny?
He wouldn't let me in. So I came in this way. Your friends aren't very nice to me.
 I have a Town Hall meeting tonight, Jack.
You work too hard. I'm sorry about your window. I'll fix it tomorrow.  Are you surprised?!
Jack, I have to go. I have an invitation to a party tomorrow. Lots of rich people, politicians. We could get all dressed up... Jack turns up the music, takes Harvey's hands and guides him through a simple dance.
So I could be the first lady?
Uh-huh.
I watched TV here today. All day. I saw All My Children. They killed Margo. I knew it was going to happen. They try and trick you but it never works.
 You always see it coming?
What? Killing the blonde? Every time. I'm good with that.  I think now the old lady is going to have an affair. Then she'll get killed or married. Always one or the other. Dead or married. Jack starts dancing with Harvey again. It's sweet, intimate.
If I make you a key, you won't break my windows again, right?
That's right. The dance lesson is a lovely distraction. Harvey won't be going back to work tonight.
I'm proposing a citywide ordinance. It ensures that a person who already has a job can't be fired for their orientation.
I'm not sure my constituents would favor that. Dan looks over to his WIFE and NEWBORN SON.
Is anyone else here from the Board?
You're the only one who showed up I think.
Were you christened here?
Yes. Right here. Same Parish. My grandma immigrated here when this was an Irish Catholic city. The City of St. Francis... A lot's changed here since then.
You're more like one of us now... an outsider.
You're not like most homosexuals, are you, Harvey?
Do you know a lot of "homosexuals?"
 Say, where do you stand on the Psychiatric Center the City's been pushing into my district?
Well, I'd have to study it...
Getting it out of my district was a key piece of my platform. It only attracts arsonist, rapists, all that, you know.
Sure, sure. A campaign promise.
A big one.
I'd like that, too, Dan. Mary Ann White approaches with their child. It's awkward, as if she's walked in on something intimate.
I'm sorry. Slipped into some shop talk.
The Gay Rights Ordinance. My fault.
Hey, don't knock it till you've tried it. His attempt to break the tension goes down in flames. She cracks a polite smile. They're from very different worlds.
Supervisors Silver and Lau are asking you to vote to keep this Psychiatric Center in Dan's district. It'll go down 6 to 5 if you vote to get rid of it.
It's a Youth Campus, Harvey. These are kids that would be displaced from their families if it's moved.
I can't just dump Dan. The guy's got nothing going for him. No friends...
Here we go, Harvey to the rescue. Isn't it enough we have to put up with Jack?
Lay off. He registered 120 voters last week.
So do any of your volunteers, but you don't make them all first lady.
What does Dan White do for you? Really? Politically?
He intrigues me... I think he may be one of us. Everyone groans. Cleve camps it up:
Dear God, say it ain't so!
It's just a theory...
You just think he's cute.
No... I know what it's like to live that life. That lie. You can see it in Dan's eyes... The fear, the pressure... Anne Kronenberg walks in. She's got that look in her eyes. Something's up.
Good or Bad?
Not great. State Senator John Briggs is Anita Bryant's go-to guy in California for sure. He's filed his petition for a statewide referendum to fire all gay teachers and anyone who supports them. A pall falls over the room. This is worse than expected.
How many signatures will he need to qualify for the ballot?
Whatever. He can get them in two Sundays at church in Orange County.
 This means the fight's coming here, where we can do something about it! Wichita's one thing, Kansas City. But Anita's heading for San Francisco! She's not going to know what hit her. Smile, children! This is the fight we've been waiting for.
My proposition promises to protect our children from these gay perverts and pedophiles who recruit our children to their deviant lifestyles, including the ones who
do it in our public schools. It's time to root them out. In the crowd is teacher TOM AMMIANO, 36, colorful, worked up:
And how are you going to determine who's a homosexual?
Sir, my bill outlines procedures for identifying homosexuals.
How? Will you be sucking them off?
Sir, you can argue with me, but you cannot argue with God. It's getting ugly fast. Briggs is whisked away by TWO OFFICERS. He trips off the curb and is quickly scooped up.
Look what happened in Germany. Now Anita Bryant already says that Jews and Muslims are going to hell, you know she's got a shopping list. We are not going to let John Briggs or Anita Bryant legislate bigotry in this city... Hold on Dan watching Harvey on TV.
Hello, Harvey. Running late? 
Oh Harvey... your boyfriend is in the closet.
Excuse me, David?
You're right, I know, I was late by twenty minutes. I'm sorry, Jack.
Who were you with? Scott? Some boy?
I was at work. Come out, sugar pea.
No. You embarrassed me. I didn't know anyone. These are not good people. I don't want to be here.
Then go home, Jack.
No. I'll wait for you. Go away. A tight smile from Harvey as he looks up to Cleve.
The Briggs initiative is polling at 75 percent for approval statewide.
80 percent in other polls. Some even have us losing San Francisco.
 So it's important we not deceive people into thinking we can beat this, or we'll have riots and only increase this backlash.
Good point, David. Let's just roll right over. Make it easier for Briggs to fuck us up the ass. Rick and David are horrified. Phil Burton rises above it, passing out copies of his new Anti-Briggs Initiative flier.
We're taking this very seriously in my office. We want to send one of these to every home in California. We'll need money to do that.
 "Proposition Six is an affront to Human Rights. An invasion of the State into the private lives of California citizens."  Does it even say the word gay on this thing? Anywhere?
No Harvey, purposefully not.
With the heat bearing down on your movement right now, we think it's best to dodge the "gay" bullet. Go for the human rights angle.
People need to know who's affected. This flier needs at least one old queen on it.  Why don't you volunteer for that, David?
 Corey Wares is an out gay--
EMPTY_LINE
This is shit. Shit and masturbation. It's a coward's response to a dangerous threat.
 I think you should leave. In the face of Phil Burton, most the others seem to agree. HARVEY PUTS PHIL BURTON'S FLYER IN THE FIREPLACE on his way out of the room.
Jack, it's time to go.  Get everyone together. I want young people, women, fresh heads. Fighters and organizers, not politicians.
 What about, S-C-O-T-T? OFF HARVEY, knowing Scott would be an asset. Jack opens the door and grabs Harvey's hand. They go.
We're not interested in working with those old Democratic Party shits. THE DOOR OPENS and someone new enters. He's HOLDING THE HAND OF... SCOTT SMITH. They are obviously a new couple.
But we can't afford infighting anymore, Cleve. We have to bring together every group. Even the old school Democrats.
 Is anybody gonna pay the pizza guy, or are we just gonna stare? People start chipping in for the HANDSOME PIZZA GUY.
If we're gonna convince the 90% to give a shit about us 10%... We have to let 'em know who we are.  Everybody's coming out. The entire state. No matter where they live.
"Come out, come out, wherever you are!"
I'm serious.  We're going to tell everyone in the state to come out. Every gay doctor, lawyer, teacher, dog catcher... We have to leave the ghetto, let all those people out there know that they do know one of us. And if people won't step out of the closet, we open the door for them.
Jesus.
The whole state is not San Francisco.
Clearly, Scott.
It could be dangerous. There is such a thing as a right to privacy.
Privacy's our enemy. You want real political power? Let's tell the truth for a change. Starting here. If there's anybody in this room, right now, who hasn't told their families, their friends, their employers... Do it. Now.
My folks know already. A beat. The room is silent. Dick looks ill.
I haven't told my father yet...
 People vote two to one for us if they know just one of us.
It's in the bedroom. After a moment, Dick RISES and follows Cleve out of the room. People are stunned by Harvey's outrageous demand. Harvey sees Scott GLARING at him.
I thought you were done with politics.
Politics. Not the movement. What the hell was that in there?
The movement needs people to be up- front. Why were you fighting me?
You were the biggest closet case alive in New York. You told me and all your boyfriends to keep our
traps shut. You were the hypocrite in there.
My parents are gone. My brother knows. I'm sure they knew.
I had to listen to your phone calls home to Mom. Hear you deny that I existed. You want to be "normal" as bad as any of us. More than any of us... Those are kids in there. You're asking them to lose their families.
If their families won't love them for who they are, who they really are, then they should lose them.
That's fucking insane.
 Who's he? Do you live together?
Someone I'm seeing. He's good for me. He makes me stay home at nights, out of the bars...
 I miss you.
Oh, Harvey, don't...  What's that about?
 Har-veyyyyy!
He needs me. Scott nods. THAT'S ALWAYS BEEN HARVEY'S ACHILLES HEAL. He walks away from Harvey, leaving him alone.
--I want it noted that I never promised to back moving any Mental Health Centers. I greatly respect Supervisor White, but I would like his remarks stricken.
Duly noted. We will take a recess before recording the vote. Fellow Supervisor, CAROL RUTH SILVER, leans over to Harvey.
Can I have a moment with Harvey? Alone, please, Carol? She politely recognizes the tension and gets up.
Why are you turning on me like this at the last minute? What did I do?
I didn't have all the details. I'll help you craft a different version that doesn't displace any kids.
Harvey, I can't go back to my family and to my folks and to my district without this. Don't do this.
I'm getting a lot of pressure, Dan.
You strung me along. And now you're throwing me to the wolves.
You only need one more vote, Dan. There are 5 other Supervisors you could convince besides me. Dan grabs Harvey. It's threatening. A new side of Dan.
I'll vote against your Queer Law. I'll get Quentin against it.
It'll still pass. You can't keep alienating yourself here, Dan.
I gave you a chance, Harvey. I really did. You blew it. You really blew it. Dan goes, the rage of a scorned adolescent under his suit.
Across the country, a handful of city councils had passed the very first ordinances protecting gay people against discrimination. But Anita Bryant and her right wing Christian fundamentalists were creating and exploiting and fanning a backlash. Now she had referenda to repeal all of these gay rights ordinances. While we were preparing for the battle against Briggs and Prop Six, Anita Bryant was taking her show on the road... sweeping the country. Her next stop was Wichita, Kansas.
I give thanks for all of our foot soldiers of God here in Wichita. But we must push on. Look what happened to Sodom and to the world of Noah. Onward Christian soldiers!
(lifting her hand with
On to California!
Hi. We're losing Wichita. Rally tonight. Sundown. Market and Castro. A MULTIPLYING FRAME EFFECT: the person he called calls two others, they call four, then more and more as the tree grows.
They're moving. I don't know where, but...
Did Jim call the press?  Get out there with your camera!
I'm going!
Press is covered. But we don't have a permit to march.
 When I got Coors out of the bars, the Union gave me this. I want you to have it.
What do I do with this?
You're an activist. Take it. March them.  March those people up to the front doors of City Hall. When it looks really bad, the city's first gay Supervisor will come out and play peacemaker. We save the city from a riot. We can turn this night into more political power for the cause.
I can't do it like you do it.
I won't always be here. Somebody else will have to take over.  I need you to be the scary one now.
Forty years ago tonight, the gay citizens of Germany found out they no longer had civil rights. Tomorrow morning, the gay citizens of Wichita will also awaken to find that they too have lost their civil rights. You have whistles. You use them when we have been attacked. Tonight we have been attacked. Initially Cleve is successful, but then the crowd turns, marching toward City Hall without him.
Fuck. Shit. Harvey! Cleve runs as fast as he can to cut through the crowd, to get to the front. He gets on his walkie-talkie.
Get the press to the overpass! ON HARVEY: Ducking through EMPTY STREETS, trying to get AHEAD OF THE CROWD and beat them to City Hall.
Move... Left... Move... Left...
 What are you doing? Where's Harvey?
We're shutting down traffic, both directions. Cleve looks up at the press that's arrived on the overpass above, and turns to two HIPPIE KIDS near the front.
Disconnect the power arms! The boys climb up a trolley and knock down the power arms. Sparks fly. Brakes squeal. The press snaps photos.
Hello. My name is Harvey Milk, and I want to recruit you.  I want to recruit you for the fight to preserve our democracy against the Anita Bryants and John Briggs who are trying to legalize bigotry! We have a choice to make. The fight is at our doors. We must either go back in the closet and shut it tight, or fight... History shows
that if we continue to fight, we... will... win.
They're calling it a "successful mediation." You're a God damn hero. Fuck. It came this close to a riot.
Lose the note cards next time. Your job is just to say into that bullhorn what they're all feeling.
You're just jealous it wasn't you out there.
We're losing Prop Six by 60% and you're over there celebrating a riot. I need more visibility...  If we're going to beat this thing, we have to get Briggs to acknowledge us. Harvey steps away, hot, pensive. Anne gets quiet.
Every paper's calling Prop Six the main event now. We lose this, we'll have anti-gay laws in all fifty states, and Briggs won't return our calls for a public debate.
He's ignoring us to death.
 We need something populist. What's the number one complaint about city life?
The piss smell in the Tenderloin.
Close.
Dog shit.
If you cleaned up all the dog shit in the city, you could be elected Mayor.
"Mayor Milk."
I like it.
Dog mess is a hazard, and on top of that, it's disgusting. Under the ordinance, dog owners that don't clean up can be fined. This really is the bottom line! He smiles at his own joke, punctuating it by "accidentally" stepping in Cleve's well-placed dog shit. A BIG grin. BULBS FLASH. These flashes transition into:
Supervisor Lau?
Aye.
Lau, Aye. Supervisor Silver?
Silver, Aye. Supervisor White?
No.
White, No. Madam President, I have ten ayes and one no. Dianne Feinstein BANGS HER GAVEL down hard.
The San Francisco Gay Rights Ordinance sponsored by Supervisors Milk and Silver is passed.
I can't get my stories on page ten, you're getting page one?
Doggy-doo's a real problem, George. With a shit eating grin, Harvey offers up a powder blue pen.
Powder blue to sign they city's first Gay Rights law... George, we need your help with Briggs... The gay community will have your back from now on. On all issues. I hope you'll have ours. A beat between them. An alliance is forming. The Mayor sits behind his desk and turns to the press with Harvey's pen.
Good morning, everyone... I don't do this enough, taking swift and unambiguous action on a substantive move for civil rights. Moscone signs the law with the powder blue pen. Harvey leans over him. THE PRESS CAPTURES THE MOMENT.
What are you working on, Dan?
If you have something to discuss, you can have your aide make an appointment with my aide.
Listen, I know you're disappointed about the Psychiatric Center... What else do you have coming up?
Now you need something from me. You want my me to join in with the Queers on this Prop Six business?
We prefer the word "gay," Dan. Just as I'm sure you prefer the word, "Irish-American" to "Mick."
Harvey, our society can't exist without the family, without the church.
We're not against those things.
You're not? Can two men reproduce?
 No. But, we keep trying!
C'mon, Dan. You're channeling Anita and Briggs... we can work together. On something...
Okay. You introduce an initiative for Supervisor pay raises.
 It's a bad time politically. I have an election next year.
You asked for something. Introduce pay raises. I can't take care of my family on our salaries. You don't have that problem, do you? Dan's AIDE steps into the doorway. She seems surprised to see Harvey in Dan's office.
Mr. Milk, You'll excuse me, I have a development meeting. Dan goes.
What's wrong, Taco Bell?
Anne and Cleve tried to cut me out of your table. You should fire them.
I'll take it under consideration. Why don't you get us a drink? A kiss and Jack heads to the bar. Scott approaches.
Don't let Cezar Chavez hear you calling him Taco Bell.
He's getting better. He's enrolling in classes on Monday. Scott wipes PIE CREAM from Harvey's jacket.
I remember when your birthdays were a bit less... lavish. More intimate.
Who invited you? Anne?
My boyfriend got an invitation. I was his "plus one."
Congratulations. It was a tough ticket to get.
Congratulations to you. Looks like you're part of the Machine now.  You can do better.
When I come home to Jack, I don't have to talk politics or talk intelligently. Or even talk.
You're not so old. You look handsome... Happy 48th. Looks like you're gonna make it to fifty after- all, Mr. Milk. Scott gives Harvey a BIRTHDAY KISS.
Sorry I missed the party, Harv...
No problem, Dan. Good to see you.
Dog poop?
Yeah.
It's good! It's a good one.
Thanks. But it's a real problem.
Oh, yeah. I mean, God knows how many problems it causes. All kinds of diseases, birth defects probably, I mean, stuff you can't even...  Hey, I got you a little something.
You didn't have to--
 You didn't have to--
Are you okay, Dan?
Oh, what? Yeah, sure. Harvey, I just... I just want to say... Happy Birthday. Dan PUTS HIS ARMS AROUND HARVEY for a sort-of macho but really weird birthday hug. Harvey stiffens, it's such a peculiar moment. Dan steps back, looks him over.
I've really learned a lot from watching you, Harvey.
I doubt that.
No, I have. You gotta get out there. Get noticed. That's how it works. But, you have an issue. That's your advantage.
It's more than an issue, Dan. (a beat, one last try to get through to him) Dan. I've had four relationships in my life. Three of those four tried to kill themselves. I know it was my fault they did it. I told them to stay quiet. To hide. Most of my life I've been closeted. That's what living this life is like for most of us. The way things are... This isn't just about our jobs, or any issue, it's our lives we're fighting for. Jack emerges from the bathroom, barely together and leans on Harvey. Dan steps back from Harvey and Jack, his moment alone stolen away.
I've learned a lot from you, Harvey. I'm going to get my picture in the papers, too. You'll see. I've got my own issue. That's right. Dan White's Got An Issue!
Come out! Just come on out! DRIVING THE CAR: Anne keeps a close eye on the parade watchers. Any one of them could be an assassin.
I see naked men walking around, naked women walking around, which doesn't bother me as far as my personal standards of nudity, but it's not proper. We wouldn't allow it for any other parade in San Francisco, and it should not be allowed for the gay parade.
It came in the mail today.
"You get the first bullet the minute you stand at the microphone."  Looks like the publicity's working.
You don't have to go up there.
It could happen any day, any night, any time... (off the ROARING CROWD that's waiting for him) The nation's eye is on us. I have to do this. JUMP TO: POV shots of cops and loners amongst the massive audience hint at Harvey's paranoia. Like diving off a cliff, Harvey launches up to the microphone. The deafening cheers surely would have drowned
My name is Harvey Milk, and I want to recruit you. I want to recruit you for the fight to preserve your democracy. Brothers and sisters, you must come out. Come out to your parents. I know that it is hard and will hurt them but think about how they will hurt you in the voting booth! Come out to your friends, if they indeed are your friends. Come out to your neighbors, to your fellow workers. Once and for all, break down the myths, destroy the lies and distortions. For your sake. For their sake. For the sake of the youngsters who are becoming scared by the votes from Dade to Eugene. On the Statue of Liberty it says "Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to be free." In the Declaration of Independence it is written "All men are created equal and are endowed with certain inalienable rights." For Mr. Briggs and Mrs. Bryant and all the bigots out there, no matter how hard you try, you cannot erase those words from the Declaration of Independence. No matter how hard you try, you cannot chip those words from off the base of the Statue of Liberty. That is what America is. Love it or leave it. Wild applause. He scans the crowd as he steps off stage. A bit surprised to still be alive. Cleve grabs him.
The Mayor says Briggs is on his way here. He could intercept him for us. We could get him face to face. He couldn't ignore us anymore.
Get the press.
The parade is the other direction.
They're taking us another way, Sir.
I have a right to be here, Mr. Mayor.
I'm afraid it's not in the interest of your safety, or my public's safety to let you into that parade grounds. Finally face to face, Harvey extends his hand. Its a show for the FLASHING CAMERAS. Briggs is clearly uncomfortable.
Hi, I'm Harvey Milk. It's quite an honor to meet you, Mr. Briggs.
I'm aware. Sad you're too afraid to fight this out in public, Mr. Milk.
No sir. I would love to have a public debate. I'm very interested in the details of your argument.
You know the details. As do the people. Look at the votes across this nation. The "public" is with me.
Yes sir, today they are. But with my City's Mayor and the San Francisco press as my witnesses, I'm challenging you to a public debate. John nods, stiff. He can no longer avoid Harvey Milk. He gets back in his limo.
Senator, as a Christian it's interesting that you don't seem to understand what Christ was about. He was about accepting people and giving love, not carrying a Bible in one hand and hatred in the other...  ...Now all the gay myths have been shattered, all the fears, all the--
Not in my mind they haven't--
That's it. In your mind they haven't, and I'm wondering why--
Mr. Milk, we don't allow people who believe in practicing bestiality to teach our children, and the reason we don't is because it is illegal. But it's not illegal to be a homosexual in California.
And your law goes even further. Any school employee who even supports a gay person will be fired--
True. But, gay people don't have children of their own. If they don't recruit our children, they'd all die away. That's why they want to be teachers, to encourage our children to join them.
How do you teach homosexuality? Like French? I was born of heterosexual parents, I was taught by heterosexual teachers in a fiercely heterosexual society. So then why am I homosexual? And no offense meant, but if it were true that children mimicked their
teachers, you'd sure have a helluva lot more nuns running around. The audience eats it up. It feel like "The Harvey Milk Show."
If they're going to lead such an open life of homosexuality that they want a 21-gun salute every time somebody goes by them, those people are going to be in danger of being removed their job.
We were really genuinely frightened by Proposition Six, and with the backlash gaining strength, we were very pessimistic. We didn't think there was any chance we could beat it. What we hoped to do was to organize to the point that when we did lose, there would be a revolt... That all hell would break lose.
People are coming out, though. We met with groups in Bakersfield, Redding, a dozen people showed up in a library basement in Fresno asking for our support if they came out. Last Sunday, the Reverend of St. Mary's came out to his entire congregation...
We're still losing, 60 to 30. We have to take the show on the road. Call Briggs's office. Do a press release. Tell them he can pick the town, the audience, and I'll ask our supporters not to attend.
Their audiences are insanely devout. We'll get killed.
Get me Orange County.
You just have to go down to LA and guess the right things on TV and they'll pay us... You have to use your fame now while you have it. We could have nice things.
I don't have time to do game shows right now... This stops Jack cold.
You are horrible! I have worked on this surprise for you for weeks!
Are you drunk right now?
You are an ungrateful asshole!
Jack, I'll have more time soon.
You're ashamed of me!
That's not true. I think you're smart. You're capable. No matter what your family or your father said. I believe in you... We should figure out something for you to do. I could get you a job.
I'll never be good enough for you! Jack THROWS A PIECE OF POTTERY AT HARVEY. It misses, CRASHING THROUGH THE WINDOW onto the street below.
I'll get a broom. Harvey goes. Jack collapses into a chair.
If in your statements here you say that child molestation is not an issue, why do you put out literature that hammers it home, why do you play on that myth and fear?
Same thing with VD Harvey, we put out publications about VD so you can avoid it.
 But you've even admitted that there's more molestation in the heterosexual group! So why not get rid of the heterosexual teachers? Boos from the conservative audience.
We are not talking about homos... child molestation, the fact is, at least 95 percent of the people are heterosexual. If we took heterosexuals out AND homosexuals out, you know what--
--No child molestation... So you're saying the percentage of population is equal to the percentage of child molestation?
 No, no, I'm not saying that at all--
That's what you just said.
No. I'm saying that we cannot prevent child molestation so let's cut our odds down and take out the homosexual group and keep in the heterosexual group-- Harvey laughs in disbelief at the asinine argument. Briggs looks down to his notes, lost. Harvey takes the opportunity to rip into the State Senator:
 --Sir, in your own drive for personal power, how many careers are you willing to see destroyed? How many lives will you destroy in your lust for power, and when will you stop? The crowd boos, rails. This isn't San Francisco, it's Orange County. In the audience, Dick Pabich sweats, taken aback by the level of hatred. Harvey tries to maintain his composure.
All I'm really saying is, if we don't protect ourselves with this kind of legislation, a transvestite can show up at a public school with all the qualifications for teaching and they can't refuse to hire him.
Hey Jack, what's wrong?
Nothing. I just want to know when you'll be home.
You just had them pull me out of my big vote on the dog shit ordinance. Did you do this on purpose, Jack?
It's poop, Harvey. Aren't I more important than poop?
Yes, but... I don't know when I'll be home. Maybe 6. 6:15.
Fine. 6:15. Harvey hangs up. His patience is slipping. He looks up in time to see Dan heading down the hall with his briefcase.
Dan? How's the baby?
You didn't bring up Supervisor pay raises. In fact, I heard you plan to publicly oppose them.
I heard you planned to vote against them too, Dan. Were you trying to set me up?
(parrotting Harvey
It's not a good time for me to bring it up. Politically.
Dan, there's a vote to approve the police desegregation settlement, give me that and I'll consider backing pay raises.
 I don't trade votes... unlike you, the way I was raised, we believe in right and wrong. Moral and immoral.
Black skin and White in your police department?  Dan, even Ronald Reagan's come out against Proposition Six. You're looking more and more out of touch.
If I come out against Prop Six, it's only for the invasion of State's rights issue.
 And the potential witch hunts against you "straight people," right? Dan tries hard to come up with a cogent response. He can't. His behavior is alarming. He sets down his briefcase.
You underestimate me, Milk. You're very, very wrong about me.
I don't know what you mean. A moment. Dan is on the verge of tears, hot angry tears.
What is it, Dan? You can tell me.
You don't... You can't humiliate me. And you will not demean me.
You're the asshole that just passed that dog shit thing aren't you? What the hell do you have against dogs?
 Sir, blind people can't see "shit." What the heck do you have against blind people? The young folks surrounding the PASSERBY laugh and hoot at Harvey's joke. Even the harassing PASSERBY can't help but crack a grin. Harvey beams.
Harvey. Look at me. Look at me. You did everything you could.
No, I didn't. Not everything...
What else could you have done?
I could have come home at six o'clock, not six-fifteen. Scott puts his arm around Harvey. Harvey buries his head. Anne helps Cleve take down Jack's many hidden notes. Cleve quietly reads a prominently placed one:
"Beware. The ides. Of November."
Jack was gone. I didn't have time to mourn... There was no choice but to keep on... to keep fighting.
Thank you for this great honor. But do you think once the magazine is done snapping pictures, maybe I could keep the suit for a while?
 Would you like to trade with me?
No. What the heck are you?
Oh, me? I'm an elected official. I run this city.
San Bernadino is coming in. Not good.
Of course not. How not good?
60% for Briggs. Same in Fresno.
Dear God, little Lotus Blossom. Harvey is stunned. Other districts follow with similar results. They go up in red on the map.
Imperial is 69% "for" so far.
Put it up on the board. Harvey tries to stomach this major defeat, loss after loss. He starts reflexively tying his tie in a knot. Cleve comes up to Harvey, concerned.
The whole world is watching this. This is San Francisco we're about to lose. Are you ready?
I can have 15,000 people in an hour. But there's gonna be riots if this thing passes.
 There goddamn better be.
 What are you telling me?
I can't say it because I'm a public official, but for God's sake, if this thing passes, fight back. Cleve is stunned, holding the weight of Harvey's words. Harvey's focus is interrupted when Anne brings him the phone.
Don Amador down in LA.
 Kind of a bad time, Don.
No sir, this is Paul. Don just gave me the phone.
Paul who?
You talked to me on the phone a year or so ago. I'm from Minnesota... I'm in a wheelchair. REVEAL: The boy in his wheelchair on the other end.
 I thought you were a goner, Paul.
I'm sorry. I should have called. When I read in the paper that you won the Supervisor seat, I got a friend to put me on a bus to LA.
Who did you know in Los Angeles?
Nobody. That's the uh... I just didn't want to die anymore, sir.  I met your friend Don down here. I turned 18. I voted today against Prop Six... Thank you, Mr. Milk.
No. You did this all by yourself.
I don't think I'd be alive right now without you, sir. You were right about LA. It's like gay Disney World.
Then you have to see San Francisco!
Okay. I will. Don wanted me to um... congratulate you on what he says looks like a big win for us tonight. Congratulations Mr. Milk. Harvey turns back to the map. Jim Rivaldo is now coloring in LA county with green. On the other end of the phone, Harvey's friend in LA, Don Amador, is back on the line.
It looks like we've taken LA County, Harvey. By 65%. It's huge.
I gotta go, Don. Thank you.  LA by 65% put it up! Put it up! The tone in the room is changing. Jim storms up.
The polls were off. Briggs is going down by more than 2 to 1. The only district where it's leading in San Francisco is Dan White's. Harvey takes a moment to absorb the map. Anne, Dick & Jim, all the volunteers. What this apparent win means to him, to his people. To Cleve:
Well crap Cleve, now what are we going to do tonight?! (re: a giant, jock strap wearing, Lady Liberty) Cover up Lady Liberty. The cameras will be coming our way.
To the gay community all over this state... my message to you is... so far a lot of people joined us and rejected Proposition Six, and now we owe them something... We must destroy the myths once and for all, shatter them. We must continue to speak out... and most importantly, most importantly, every gay person must come out.
What's the matter?
You ever heard of sore losers? Well, I'm a sore winner... I thought we were goners.
I told you, I don't "do" losing.
I think maybe we're best with our backs to the wall. It's too quiet.  I think we should march on Washington D.C. next year.
Milk, you're a decent politician, a mediocre businessman, but you're a lousy gay man. (Harvey knows what he's getting at) Take some time off. Fifty's right around the corner.  Nobody will want you after that... I can handle D.C.
 The people voted for us, Cleve Jones.
They did. There's nowhere to march tonight, Mr. Harvey Milk. Lets go back inside. Turning back, they savor the moment, like father and son walking to Castro Camera, growing ever smaller in the frame.
Could you give this to the Mayor for me? As soon as possible.
Morning, Dan.
I just resigned. Congratulations. I'm sure you're pleased. Harvey doesn't know what to say. Dan's right, it does make him happy. But it's not that simple.
You'll be the next President of the Board.
I'm sure we could work together-- Dan walks away from Harvey. He doesn't want to hear anything Harvey has to say. Harvey watches as Dan is met in the hallway by an OFFICER from the POLICE OFFICERS ASSOCIATION.
Hey, Dan. Just got word. Can we talk to you for a minute?
Sure... Dan heads for his office.
Downstairs. The Association meeting room... Harvey watches as Dan follows the officer down the stairs to an ASSOCIATION MEETING ROOM on the next floor. When the DOOR OPENS, Harvey sees SEVERAL REPRESENTATIVES from the Police Department wearing somber expressions. It looks as if Dan is about to get REAMED OUT.
Most people were surprised when Dan White quit last Friday citing financial difficulties. Now we've heard that White is asking for his Supervisor job back. But many say--
--White gave up all of his political chits when he resigned without making any arrangements. The news story transitions in the B.G. as Harvey gets up.
The city of San Francisco is in disbelief. Four-hundred bodies have been found thus far in Jonestown, Guyana. Leader of the People's Temple, Jim Jones...
It was a major decision on Friday that I had to come... to arrive at. But since that time, people unknown to me, plus my family and friends, have come to me and stated that they want me to stay in office, that they support me... So I'm asking the Mayor to let me stay in office to serve the people...
He gets dragged into a closed door meeting with the Police Officers Association, and comes out demanding his job back? What do you think they promised him? Or worse, how did they threaten him?
A man has the right to change his mind. Give me some peace.
How many of our propositions has Dan shut down? We could finally settle this police desegregation nonsense. Cement rent control. It's his vote on this Board that stands in our way.
I get it, Harvey. I've been lobbied all week. Enough.
Let me just remind you that you're up for re-election. If you re- appoint Dan, you lose the gay vote. They listen to me. You won't get elected dog catcher.
 I'll make my decision on Monday. (as Harvey's on his way out, with a wry grin) You know what you sounded like just now? Boss Tweed or Mayor Daly.
 A "homosexual" with a bit of power... rather scary isn't it, Mr. Mayor? OFF Harvey. He's come a long way.
 Yes. This is Dan White.
I'm Barbra Taylor from KCBS. I'm interested in your reaction. I've received information from the Mayor's office that you won't be getting your job back.
I'm sorry. I don't know anything about that. Dan hangs up on her.
Hello? REVEAL: Scott, half asleep.
Sorry to wake you up.
What's wrong?
I went to the opera tonight. Guess who my date was.
Who?
Bidu Sayao herself. She was in the first Puccini I ever saw. The crowd went wild. It was like I was young again, seeing my first live opera...
If you go to the opera again, you should call me.
Really? Scott gets out of bed, considers his words. It's intimate.
Yes. I'd go with you.
I'd like that. Harvey is quiet, a rare moment of reflection. An unexpected tear rolls down his cheek.
Harvey?
Look out the window, the sun's coming up.
It's late. You should get some sleep.
I don't want to miss it.
Miss what?
This. Harvey's single word answer means, "Life." OFF Harvey: Neither wants to hang up the phone.
Hey, wait a minute, Mr.--
My aide was supposed to come down here and let me in the side door, but she never showed up.
And you are?
I'm Dan White. City Supervisor. We follow Dan down the hall and into the grand entry-way.
Who's it gonna be? Is he replacing Dan with that God Damned liberal lefty Don Horanzy? That'll really shake up the Board, huh?
All I know is that we're getting a new Supervisor today. If Dan shows up, just avoid him. We don't need a scene today, right Harvey?
 Heaven forbid, Dianne.
You can't take this away from me! Moscone has his back turned, pouring them cocktails.
The issue is what's fair, for the people of your district. Take some time off. Spend it with your family.
This time next year we're marching on Washington D.C. It'll look like Market and Castro, but with a million people. Write that down. Tell President Carter we're coming after him next. I'm going to deposit this. I'll be back in 20 minutes. Dan arrives at Harvey's office door. Harvey is with a FRIEND, preparing to leave, surprised to see Dan in his doorway.
Say, Harve, can I see you for a minute?
Sure. Dan walks Harvey down the hall to his old office.
Oh no... N-- Dan Fires again, silencing Harvey's cry for help.
Last week I got a phone call--
--from Altoona, Pennsylvania, and the voice was quite young, and the person said... "Thanks." You've got to elect gay people so that that young child and the thousands upon thousand like him know there's hope... hope for a better world...
 Where is everybody? Didn't anyone give a damn?
I ask this... If there should be an assassination, I would hope that five, ten, one hundred, a thousand would rise. I would like to see every gay lawyer, every gay architect come out--
--If a bullet should enter my brain, let that bullet destroy every closet door... And that's all. I ask for the movement to continue. Because it's not about personal gain, not about ego, not about power... it's about the "us's" out there. Not only gays, but the Blacks, the Asians, the disabled, the seniors, the us's. Without hope, the us's give up-- As the thousands of mourners arrive at City Hall, they place their candles around the statue of Lincoln.
--I know you cannot live on hope alone, but without it, life is not worth living. So you, and you, and you...
You gotta give em' hope... you gotta give em' hope. Harvey closes his note pad, puts down his pencil, and pushes stop on his recorder.
