I know what you're thinking. Don't bullshit me, because I do... You're -         thinking, oh dear lord in heaven, please, I'm begging you. I'll gouge -         out my eyes with the straw in my drink right now. I'll jam every last kernel of popcorn into my -         mouth until I suffocate, just not another fucking teenage coming-of- age story.
Well, relax...no prom night highjinks, no nerds becoming popular and no Shakespeare set in high school...I promise.
Since it happened, everyone's asked me how it all started.
I suppose the obvious answer is my eighteenth birthday...
See, I was blessed with a terrific mom. Not only is she a lush, but she also hates me.
A few days before the party, I overhear her on the phone ordering me a male stripper. Nothing says "I love you" like ten inches of man meat in your face.
And knowing dear old ma, she'll try and nail him after the party...in my bed.
That guy? Our neighbor Mike Rudell, big shot TV producer and the guy my mom screws whenever the batteries run out.
Yo, bee-ach!
Yo, birthday bee-ach!
Is it on?
Oh, it's on!
That's my girl!
See, to understand me, you need to understand that life, in my opinion, is all about new experiences. "Firsts" is what I call them.
Somewhere around fourteen, when I had my first...rhymes with duck, I realized that the goal of life, any life, should be to cram as many "firsts" into it as possible.
What the hell are you doing? I said wait until-  She's not even here, you morons!
But, but her friend said--
SURPRISE!
 Oh, Mom, this is the best birthday ever!
That little stunt got me grounded for a week, but it was worth it.
See, I just don't understand people who live their lives as one big routine.
They're basically saying "I'm not worthy of a unique experience on this earth."...Well, sorry, but I am.
The law of firsts has served me well, because it's liberated me from the usual pathetic, repetitive concerns of high school.
I simply don't care if I'm popular, because if I did, then I'd be constantly stressing about whether my clothes are cool enough, or if Troy, the "gay but he doesn't know it yet" quarterback, is gonna call.
 Oh, God, it's Troy.
Just keep walking and don't look at him. ROY, a cocky, chiseled, all-around nightmare, sticks his tongue in his cheek, simulating a blow job.
Yo, Kayla, I got some more of what you were looking for Saturday night.
Ahh...The joys of the American educational system.
 Actually, Troy, I think you confused her with that senile, toothless grandmother of yours.
Yo, Mini, why don't you use that mouth for something useful and suck my dick?
Actually, now that you mention it, I can't think of anything I'd rather do than suck your dick.
Well, it's all for you, babe.
Really?
 If you can fit it all in.
Hey, what the?!
 I'm going to suck your dick, Troy, you said I could.
Yo, this ain't funny!
No, Troy, I want to suck your dick right now!
Jesus, Mini, come on, get off!
 No, Troy! You said I could, now come on!
Let's see it! Come on, I want to suck your throbbing member right now!
Mini?
EMPTY_LINE
WHAT?!
When I call you, I expect you to answer.
 Sorry.
Don't patronize me.
 Sorry!
If you're trying to get me to call you a spoiled little ungrateful bitch, you're out of luck, because I won't give you the satisfaction.
Thanks, mommy.
What do you want?
I'm going out and I need you to wait for the delivery from the liquor store. They'll be here by nine.
Fine.
Just thought you should know, that makes your thighs look fat.
 Gosh, you're right, mom, I'm such a cow.
It's a freakin' miracle I'm not anorexic after eighteen years of her little pep talks.
Have fun, don't do anything I wouldn't.
 Well, that doesn't leave much.
 Cunt.
My mother moved out to LA from Ohio when she was twenty to become an actress. Even though she was a total flatliner, somehow she managed to land a few bit parts on soaps...without screwing anyone.
When she gets really sauced, she'll pop the tapes in and make me watch, then I'll threaten to call the suicide hotline.
After a few years, she got desperate and spread 'em for this fat, ugly producer when he promised to give her a role in some bullshit cable series that was basically softcore porn. She got knocked up with me and he told her she couldn't be on the show, unless she hoovered me out.
Excuse me for one sec.
 Hey, Mini, how you doin'?
You're late.
She was gonna do it, too, at least that what's she told me when she was feeling particularly loving. But then she heard rumors the show wasn't gonna fly and realized eighteen years of child support beat thirteen weeks on "Skin Tight", so I got to stick around. ...Bad choice.
NT. THE WET BAR - LATER.
Anyway, what Mom didn't count on was the prick having a heart attack and croaking a year after I was born.
When she tried to collect on his estate, she found out he'd owed the government two point five in back taxes.
Now, if she had been smart, she would've set her sights a little lower and gone after a guy who would've worshipped the ground she walked on and wouldn't care that she already had a kid...
But not mom, she was gonna bag another elephant if it meant gobbling every knob from Hollywood to the Palisades.
Jesus Chr--Mini, why aren't you in bed?
Don't worry, Larry, she's going to bed, right now. Aren't you? NT. MINI'S TINY BEDROOM - NIGHT
Oh, I will...Like some coffee for the road?
Do you want to live in this shit hole your whole life?
Then stay in your fucking room until they leave. Got it?
So it pretty much went on like that until...
Mini? Diane? I'm home.
Five years ago, when she met Martin.
It was a win-win...
He didn't want kids, but needed a ready-made family to help project an image of stability for his corporate outings...We finally got out of Reseda...
It was great for about a year...
Then he figured out what he had married...by then it was too late.
 You're home early.
First time in three months he's walked in before Letterman. He totally forgot my birthday party, and right now I'm thinking his pin cushion must have given him the walking papers or...found a new pin.
Yeah...uh...  A dinner with a client got canceled.
Bingo.
Tough day?
About the same...
Protecting all those poor defenseless oil companies from those big bad environmentalists? ARTIN Someone's got to make the payments on your Beemer.
He's a partner at a public relations firm, which is ironic because I can't remember the last time he and my mom were seen in public together...or had relations.
Is your mother around?
No, she went to a party off Beachwood. She was in one of her "happy moods", so I doubt she'll be sleeping here...
Oh.
 If you were thinking of inviting a guest over.
 I wasn't, but thanks for the concern...You're going out on a school night?
Yeah?
Mmm...Is your homework done?
Haven't even cracked a book.
 Mmm...
Considering how many guys my mom has done in his bed, you've got to admire his resolve. He could've left her years ago, but with no pre- nup, he loses half and he just won't give in.
Their arrangement actually keeps everything very calm.
MINI As I said, the rule of firsts guides my life. Once you've gotten into every club in town and had enough Ivy League lawyers cum too fast, drastic measures are called for.
I thought it would be a goof if I put a photo ad in one of those 25 cent "outcall" massage newspapers they sell around town. But I just got a bunch of pervs breathing heavy on my voice mail. So I went to an escort service, and when they found out I was 18, they told me they had two tricks in the same hotel that night...if I was up to it.
Would you look at them?
It's pathetic. I mean, she's got to be, what? At least twenty eight?...In dog years.  Oh, wait, that would make her four.
My first night as a call girl was a serious let down. It turns out both guys were in town for the "Promise Keepers" convention.
The first one got so excited I didn't even get a chance to get my panties off before he creamed himself.
And the other said I looked so much like his niece, he started whimpering and praying for forgiveness.
Time to bat the eye lashes...
This? Are you kidding? My first woman and my first cop?...It would've been perfect if she hadn't wanted to cuddle afterwards.
 Oh...wha- what are you doing here? ini stops and looks at her mother, absorbing her insightful question. Mini sighs and heads for the bedroom.
Did you have fun, dear?
Yeah, I turned two tricks and went down on a dyke cop.
Thass nice...
God, what's gotten into her? She was almost warm and fuzzy.
After that night, things really picked up.
My one rule which the agency wasn't too happy about was, of course, only firsts, no repeat customers.
But believe me, they didn't have too much trouble honoring that request.
I'd make house calls to offices at lunch hour and we'd say I was someone's niece or cousin in town on vacation.
And then when football season started, Saturday through Monday...
I was busier than Domino's.
Then one Thursday night I get a a last minute gig at a fuck pad in Westwood that some executive keeps so "wifey" doesn't find the motel bills on the gold card statements. They say I'm just his type...young.
They tell me he's not big on the chit-chat and he loves paying extra for the stuff we charge extra for.
It's open.
Hello?
Can you fucking believe it?
Uh...hi, (quickly adopting a southern accent) Sorry, I'm Mlate.
Don't worry about it.
Mind if I freshen up?
Sure.
My own dad! My first thought was "how sick is he?" But then I started thinking...I'm one to talk, and...well...
Why not? I mean, he isn't my real dad...and talk about a first. The more I thought about it...
...the more turned on I got. Then I thought that if my mother could do some strange guy in my bed, I could do her strange guy in this bed.
Everything alright in there?
 Just peachy. Listen, Sugar, would you mind turning the lights off, I'm kinda new to all this and a little shy.
No, that's fine, but can we get this show on the road?
Sure can, in two shakes of a lamb's tail.
What did you have in mind tonight?
The deluxe.
Oh, so you want complete access?
 Y...yes.
You do know that's extra?
Just so we're clear...Now, close your eyes.
Come on.
Now just keep them shut for a while.
I can't believe I pulled that off. Keeping my face hidden actually wasn't that hard, and he pretty much let me do whatever I wanted.
And you know what?...He was damn good. I don't why Mom is throwing the cat all over town, when she can have this every night.
I...  that was...you were really good.
 Thanks, Sugar.
I'd like to see you again, but...uh...I never got your name?
Ginger.
Ginger, I won't forget.
I literally couldn't feel the ground under my feet. A first to top all firsts. I knew I'd tell him one day, but I wanted to savor it for a while.
Ginger! You forgot your...
...Jacket.
Here's to immediate gratification.
 You were great.
Uh, that fall probably won't kill you, and considering what a caring nurturer your wife is, I don't think that's a risk you can afford to take.
God, what a drama queen. Don't let this little act fool you. He'd never let mom get all his money.
This is just his twisted public relations brain working overtime to figure what the appropriate response should be to fucking your stepdaughter...ah ha! Contemplate suicide! artin backs away from the railing.
Now that's thinking outside the box.
We spent the next few hours just sitting there. I don't think we said three words. I think he was trying to find a way to justify the whole thing, but it was actually one of the sweetest nights I ever spent with a guy.
He told me it was a monumental mistake and that we should both never mention it again. I told him that was fine.
Suddenly, he started coming home every night and even started really asking me about my homework.
Morning, Kiddo, you finish those math problems?
Kiddo?
I'd be happy to help you with it, if you need.
Actually, I'm thinking about starting a 401K plan at work, could you help me pick a good mutual fund?
It took exactly one week.
In the beginning, I was concerned this would violate my rule as he technically was a repeat customer, but then I realized this was my first affair, and with my stepfather no less. To be perfectly honest...I loved it. Talk about electric, knowing at any moment she could walk in was better than any drug. It reminded me of when I was young and brought guys home after school.
At first, we were very discreet, only doing it when Joan Crawford wasn't home or was completely comatose.
Then we got bolder, doing it before she would pass out. I think we were seeing exactly how far we could push the envelope.
One night we did it before "Entertainment Tonight" ended.
Mini?
 Yeah?
God, I've told you a thousand times to knock.
Have you seen Martin? I think he was in his study a half hour ago.
Uh...can't say that I have.
Well, I assume he's gone out, so I've invited Ricardo over for a...cocktail. You know how children make him uneasy, so I'd appreciate if you and... (pointing to Martin under the sheet) ...your friend could either stay in here or use the back door when he arrives.
Oh...sure, no problem.
Okay, she's gone.
Looking back, that may have been the moment we fell in love.
We became inseparable.
Now that we were spending time together, I actually started to find out what Martin was like for the first time.
He wasn't the drip I thought he was.
He was funny, charming, sweet and even a little shy.
Being seen in public was no sweat, as long as we didn't act like a couple.
This went on for two months, before we had the talk we both knew was coming.
So...
So.
I don't want to have to sneak around in my own house.
Well, I don't think telling her is such a hot idea.
I mean, I don't want to live under the same roof with her.
You can't leave, she'll get half.
Can I ask how the hell you married her without a pre-nup? Her?
 She wasn't as bad an actress as you think.
Well, there is another option.
There is?
But it will take some planning... and some resolve.
Wait, you don't mean-
Kill her?
No, of course not, she is my mother.
Good...
But I've been thinking, if she suddenly got ill-
Ill?
Unstable, unpredictable, irrational...dangerous to the safety of her husband...her child...She would have to be sent someplace where they could give her the care she needs.
The only truly caring action we could take.
As painful as it would be for me to be without my loving wife.
You did it for the well being of your daughter. The selfless act of a devoted parent.
Of course, we'll have to make sure her episodes are well documented.
And corroborated by friends and people outside the family.
A public complaint by a neighbor wouldn't hurt.
No, that would be useful.
And we'll find her a very comfortable place out in the country.
With lots of fresh air.
It will be a much better life for her.
Much.
I awoke the next morning, as excited as I could remember. Unlike most firsts which are over too quickly, this would take determination...
Stamina...
And imagination.
I decided to start simply.
Goddamn it! Goddamn it! Goddamn it!
Part one, violent mood swings- slash-uncontrollable rages.
Fucking shit! Where are they?
I'm gonna be late! It took me three weeks to get an appointment with Anton...
Anton Michelle, masseuse to the stars and reported possessor of one of the biggest schlongs in town. Rumor has it, he's pouring the pork to every rich wife between Malibu and Pasadena. He must be incredible if Mary Magdalene dragged her ass out of bed this early.
...and now I'm gonna miss it because I can't find my fucking car keys?!
I could use a little help in here!
Coming, honey.
Diane, sugar, do you remember where you put them when you came home last night?
Yeah, in the fucking bowl by the fucking door where I always fucking put them!
Well, uh, you were kinda out of it last night.
No, I wasn't! I had one drink with Marie, one!
Uh, are you sure? You did seem a bit tipsy.
Yes, I'm sure, you dickless wonder. iane starts rummaging through the drawers of a desk near the front door.
 Now don't you listen to her, you are not a dickless wonder.
Mini, I'm taking your car. Martin, take her to school.
Diane, I have a meeting with Chapman, he's our biggest client--
 Tell him it's an emergency.
Now, here comes the really fun part. I realized a year ago that by lowering my voice a bit I could do a passable job imitating...
 Hello, Anton? It's Diane Tannen, I know it's late notice, but I'm going to have to cancel our appointment. What? No, of course, I realize I'll still have to pay...yes, something came up.
Anton? But...Jeanette?
Uh...hi, Diane?
 But, Mrs. Tannen, you call and cancel zee session thirty meenutes ago?       D IANE What? No, I didn't!
Yes, I spoke to you myself, you say sometheeng come up.
Jeanette, you knew I had an appointment today, did you pretend-
 No, I, I ...Anton called me and told me he had a cancellation.
Yes, I call her after you call me.
Why, you sneaky little bitch!
Needless to say, word of the L'incidnt de Anton spread quickly through the community.
Do you think she'll press charges?
Are you kidding? She should get twenty to life! When I told Margo and Penny about her little stunt, they both said they'd have ripped her eyes out. She'll be lucky if anyone speaks to her again.
Here comes the choo-choo.
For god's sake, I didn't break both hands.
Jeez, I still can't believe you broke your hand on her face? It's so Linda Hamilton.
 I hope she enjoys shitting out the teeth she swallowed.
osa Angelica, this is Carlos.
Ah, s, Senora Tannen, como esta?
 Okay.
Phase two: wild shopping sprees carried out in a euphoric state.
Gosh, look at all the pretty flowers.
Your mother said you are having a big party!
 I know, can you believe all this?
Carlos, what the hell is going on?
Senora Tannen, the delivery you ordered yesterday for the party?
Ordered, I didn't order anything?! Who told you to bring these here?
 But, but, Senora, you did, you called me, I talked to you.
No, you didn't!
S, you said you were having a party, don't you remember? 
You were very excited, saying you were going to have the most wonderful party and invite everyone you knew and it had to be just perfect. Perfect, that's what you said.     M INI Mom, is that what you were talking about yesterday?
What?!
Well, it was after lunch and you had washed your pain killers down with some wine. You mumbled something about a party before you took a nap.
No, I did not!
 Mom, you did. The doctor said no more mixing pain killers and alcohol.
But, but...I only slept for--
 I am so sorry. Listen, we'll pay, don't worry.
Oh, god.
Right on cue. Let's see how convincing he is.
What is going on?! Carlos, what the fuck are all these flowers doing here?!
Oooh, now I see why he makes the big bucks.
Seor Tannen, we--
Uh, Martin, I, I...
Diane, did you order all this?!
Mom, go inside, just go, I'll handle him.  It's under control, Dad. Please, let's not make a scene.
Over the next few days, whenever Mom had passed out from too much drinky-drinky...
I'd pull out her wallet...
...and reach out and touch someone.
It's really remarkable what you can order with a Platinum card these days.
Talk about easy. After a week of my version of the home shopping network, the doorbell might as well have been a canon.
At this point, dear old mummy was so spooked, I was actually afraid she might stop drinking. So I needed a back up plan, to keep her...off-balance.
As we see from a closer examination of the facts, Abraham Lincoln's decision to...
Now, here's someone I'd like to make sit, roll over and then toss me his snausage. But today... priorities are priorities.
Mr. Bishop, can I go to the little girls room?
Of course, Mini.
The school nurse, a regimented Kraut lush named Helga Hauptfhrer, or "der Fhrer" as she was affectionately known, starts jonesing for her afternoon nip... NT. THE STALL - CONTINUOUS
...exactly 45 minutes after lunch each day.
Which leaves me free to help myself to the candy store.
Thank god for the quack who invented ADD and the lazy parents willing to let "Der Fhrer" keep their kids comfortably numb on what basically amounts to legalized speed.
My fears of mom giving up the sauce were unfounded. Actually, she started drinking more.
Which gave me the perfect opportunity to prescribe her a little pick-me-up.
 Mini! I asked you for that drink ten minutes ago!
Put it on the counter.
You're welcome.
Mmm...this is really good. What's in it, Sweetie?
The first time in my life she calls me "sweetie" and I've just slipped her the mother of all Mickeys.
Oh, this and that.
My god, let me tell you, breaking my hand on that bitch's face...
...was the best thing that ever happened to me.
Phase three: rambling incoherent monologues in public.
I feel fantastic, just fabulous. I mean, I feel like I could run a marathon like that Bruce Jenner guy. He did that, right? Boy, I'll tell you before he had that face lift that made him look like a drag queen, I would've let him stick his javelin in me any day.
So I looked each and every juror in the eye-
 I want to talk to you about juries, will you come and talk to me about juries?
Uh...
I'd like to be on a jury and say "guilty!" or "sidebar!" What do you think goes on in all the sequestered situations? Do you think any of the jurors have sex with each other? I was once on an episode of Love Boat, playing the role of "Bikini Girl" and my line was "I'll have another," it was with "Isaac" at the pool bar. I had to suck one of the associate producers off to get the line, but it got me my SAG card, so I guess it was worth it. he men shoot each other an uncomfortable glance.
Uh, I think I could use a refill.
Me too,  please, excuse us.
But, but we were talking about juries and Isaac and, and that drag queen I broke my face on and..
Hey! COCKBREATH!
 ...And then I told him that I had been an extra on Hello Larry and Mike Farrell had tried to--
MacLean Stevenson.
What?
MacLean Stevenson played "Larry."
Right, that's what I said...and then MacKenzie Phillips tried to slip me the tongue!
Listen, great job, but you need to give me more warning. I was at dinner with Chapman, and it's the second time I've had to re- schedule.
I'm sorry, but it was a golden opportunity. You always said you can't pay enough for good publicity.
At this point, with all those witnesses, Martin thought we could get a shrink to have her sent away. hey stop in front of a wall of tools: hand axes, hammers and saws. Mini selects a large hand axe.
My feeling was that until they were ready to weld the door to her padded cell shut...
...there was more work to be done.
Final phase: Complete psychotic breakdown.
Hey, boys.
Wanna have a little fun?
Hello?
 Diane?
Yes?
Hello?...What do you want?
I can see you? Can you see me?
 Who is this?
Do you feel safe?
 Who is this?
You didn't answer the question.
IANE This isn't funny. I'm hanging up.
I wouldn't do that.
If this is some kind of joke...
I assure you, I'm no joke. May I say that pink blouse is very fetching.
Diane, your car is the other way.  Now answer my question. Do you feel safe?
I'm hanging up.
 Hang up and you're dead.
 Why are you doing this?
Can you see me?
Pick me out something sexy.
Leave me alone!
 But I'm so close to you...
 Get away!!!
Take it easy, lady, what the hell's your problem?
Peek a boo...I'm coming for you...but that guard can't help you. Maybe you should make a run for that Gold Jag you drive home to Mira Loma Lane.
 How do you know where I live?
I know everything about you.
No!
ECURITY GUARD #1
No! I can't leave, he knows where I live!
Did you hear me?! He knows where I live!
Him!
What are you doing?!
It's him! Answer it! Answer it! He said he was gonna kill me!
He, he knows where I live!
After her performance at the mall, I'm sure she would have qualified as "committable". But that wasn't enough, I wanted her to beg the boys in the white coats to take her away.
Mom, we're going to get some dinner. Do you want us to bring you back something?
You're leaving? Both of you?
For the last three days she hasn't left the house.
Why don't we just order in?
Mom, we can't stay in here forever. Do you want to come with us?
Mom?
Ah...vanity, the most predictable of sins.
I...can't. You two go.
Okay.
Hello?
Please, please, oh god.
You have reached 911, if this is an emergency, please remain on the line...
Oh god, oh god!
Please continue to hold, your call will be answered...
No...no...help! Help!
Oh, God! Help! Someone!
 No, please, no.
Help! Someone please, help me!
Please God, please God...please!
Our work finished...
We rewarded ourselves on a job well done...
And we returned home expecting to find her blabbering like a three year old.
Mom, we're home!
Diane, honey, we brought you a pulled pork plate!
Honey? You okay?...Honey?
Mom?
Diane, it's us, wake up.
 Wake up, Mommy.
Mini.
Killjoy.
Diane, come on, come on.
Martin... e looks up and immediately sees the bottle.
I picked that prescription up three days ago. It was probably more than half full.
 I suppose we should call an ambulance?
Her pulse is almost gone.
Do you really think they can save her?
I...I don't know.
She'll only try it again. You know she will.
She will if we keep this torture up.
 This is wrong, call an ambulance.
Hold on, who are we to say her choice was wrong? She put those pills in her mouth.
Mini--
Don't "Mini" me, you've been bankrolling my little project from day one.
We both agreed murder was out.
I'd hardly call it murder, if anything, we're just helping to fulfill her last wish.
She wouldn't have taken the pills if we hadn't-  Mini, for gods sake, she still has a pulse.
So do people in comas. It's just a matter of time-
Mini, we-
Look, you can drop the indignant outrage, because if you really cared, you'd have already grabbed the phone and dialed 911 by now.
 Can't we just admit how lucky we are? It's the perfect alibi, she put the drugs in her system.
What? Just leave her here?
Exactly.
I don't know.
Can you think of one person she knows who would say she's sane at this point? This is just the natural, sad and inevitable conclusion to a tragic life. artin ponders the choice.
We're this close from being free...let's just let nature take its course.
And so we passed the time watching my favorite show.
Welcome to "Absolutely Positive!" The show where we give couples about to get married a last chance to make sure they're...
Absolutely Positive!
That's right! We send them out on one last date with someone other than their fiance, so they can be sure they're really ready to make that lifelong commitment.
Our neighbor, Mike Rudell, the scumbag at my birthday, produces it and it's so twisted, I'm surprised I didn't think of it.
Take happy couples about to marry and try to break them up. The catch is the couples are always sent on dates with people just a little better looking than their fiancs.
And we waited some more.
Typical mom, she managed to fuck up her last act of free will...
Finally, it was time to do the only humane thing.
Come on, let's go.
What?
It's time to speed this up.
Speed this up?
We can't wait anymore, our alibi is only believable for maybe another hour. We can say that after dinner we went to a movie, but if she hasn't croaked by midnight, you can forget about this.
No, I'm sorry, this is going somewhere I'm not prepared to go.
Oh, but you were prepared to sit here until the pills did her in? I hate to break it to you, but wherever you "weren't prepared to go"...the hypocrite express just rolled into the station.
What are you suggesting?
Well, I thought we'd disembowel her and leave her for the raccoons.
Kidding...God, you've lost your sense of humor. Don't worry, it'll be painless.
To be honest, I think we both knew in our hearts it would come to this. And as my first assisted suicide, I was going to make it flawless. M
Come on, we don't have time.
Look, if we're going to screw up the details we might as well call San Quentin and tell them to fire up the dutch oven.  The gas chamber?  Martin, please, I can't explain everything.
I don't think this is a good idea.
Have you lost your mind, "Mr. Public Relations"? What's the one thing all her friends are going to be talking about when they find out?  "How did she look"? Do you think anyone will think twice if the answer is "fabulous"?
Well, if you've got anything to say to her, now would be the time.
Could you just pretend to have a little remorse?
Help us, please! My mom, I think she's dead!
Mommy, wake up!
It's okay, sweetheart, everything's going to be okay.
Mr. Tannen, I think you should take your daughter in the house.
Oh, please, don't let her die!
Mr. Tannen?
Yes?
I'm Detective Bill Garson, LAPD.
Yes?
I'm sorry to be here right now, but whenever there's an apparent suicide we are required to do an investigation to rule out homicide.
 Oh...uh...right.
It's really just a formality.
 My mother just killed herself! They haven't even taken her away yet! What's wrong with you? ARTIN Mini, please! He's just doing his job.
Tell him to leave! This is outrageous!
 Could we do this another time?
Of course we--
Thank you.
But I do need to ask just a few simple questions before I go.
Didn't you hear him?! He said--
 Mini, it's okay...just go lie down for a moment.
So after dinner and the movie, we came home at around 11:30 and found her in the garage. I turned off the car and opened the garage door to let out the exhaust.
What about trying to revive your wife?
Of course, we did that too, but I couldn't feel a pulse. Mini took a course at school in CPR and tried that, but...  it didn't work.
So your wife did this sometime between 8:00 and 11:33 when you placed the 911 call?
Yes.
May I ask why you left your wife alone when she had been acting in such an unstable state?
We never thought she'd do anything like...this. After the episode in the mall, Diane hadn't left the house for three days and my daughter and I just needed a break. It's been a very stressful time.
Of course. So this was your wife's car?
Yes.
Was it in the garage when you left for dinner or did she drive it in?
What?
Was it in the garage when you left?
 Is, is that important? ARSON Just trying to reconstruct what happened.
Oh, well...after she was brought home from the mall, the car was towed here and we put it in the garage.
And no one drove it during those three days?
No, Mini and I have our own cars.
We are going to have to impound it for a few days to take it to the crime lab.
Crime lab? Oh, okay.
Again, purely routine.
Sure.
Have you found a note yet?
 I'm sorry?
A suicide note? The deceased usually leaves one.
Oh...right, no...not yet. But we haven't really looked.
Mind if I take a look around?
No...of course not.
Who cares if we didn't leave a note? Just relax.
But they said it's--
So what? He'll do his little dance and chalk it up to another failed actress who realized after forty she might as well be dead.
 Oh, shit!
What?
The sweatsuits and goggles.
I already snuck out the back and threw them in Mike Rudell's garbage cans.
 Good.
Angelpie, just relax, we did it, we're free.
After the funeral, I felt it would be good idea if we took a vacation and went somewhere where we could act like a real couple for the first time.
Martin agreed and let me pick the place. I chose Las Hadas in Mexico, because that's where Dudley Moore and Bo Derek did it in Ten.
I figured sugar daddy/younger woman would be old news down there.
I could feel that Martin had let the whole thing with the cops go. It had been two weeks since Mom's death and it already felt like it happened a year ago.
You know, I've been thinking that I might enjoy working in your office this summer.
Really?   Sure, if you want.
I want.
Martin, Mini? Is that you?
I swear I thought Martin was going to wet himself.
 Oh...hi, Mike, what, what are you doing here? udell comes over, clearly aware of how un-father/daughter they were lying.
Last week Mini mentioned you two were coming here for a little R&R, and I suddenly realized I hadn't taken a vacation in god knows when. Jennifer, this is my neighbor Martin Tannen and his daughter, Mini.
I'm sorry, but, Jennifer, have we met? You look so familiar.
I don't think so.
And the icing is that Jennifer works for the same escort service that I did. Now this is rich.
I wanted you both to know how sorry I am for your loss.
Our loss? He just lost six or seven freebies a year.
If there's anything I can do...  for either of you...
Yikes, now that Mom's out of the way, I guess I'm fair game.
...don't hesitate to ask. Remember I'm just right across the fence.
 Thanks, Mike, we appreciate it.
Why did you tell him?!
I was just being friendly, I had no idea he'd decide to come here.
He knows. He found the clothes and goggles and he fucking knows!
I doubt he even knows where his trash cans are. 
You're overreacting. It's just coincidence.
Yeah, well coincidence or not, he saw us together.
It was dark, I sat up before he saw anything. M
No, he knows. It was like he was toying with us.
Just relax, what is he going to do? Go home and tell everyone we're a couple? We'll just laugh it off and tell everyone he vacations with hookers.
Oh, come on, could that little moment between you and Jennifer have been any more awkward?
I'm not jealous or anything, I just think it's funny. Talk about six degrees of penetration.
You realize he could blackmail us? If the police found out about us, that suicide wouldn't look so routine.
Martin, please, calm down. Trust me, nothing is going to happen.
The next few days were a laugh riot.
Suddenly, Martin was acting like he really was my father.
We returned home and things didn't get much better.
What little sex we were having    was getting dull.
Quite frankly, with my little project successfully completed...
I was bored. I became concerned that in my world of firsts I had achieved my greatest first...
...at too young an age.
 "Happy birthday, Mr. President"
As for school, well, I was just in no state to return to my studies after the trauma of my mother's death.
Uh oh.
Yes?
Minerva Tannen, Detective Garson, I don't know if you remember me?
Drogues, my last name is Drogues. And "yes", I remember you, you were the big hearted lug who wanted your questions answered while my mother was still warm.
 So, Mr. Tannen is your stepfather?
Nice work, McGruff.
Again, I am sorry about that night, but it is policy that we get the preliminary facts as soon as possible.
What do you want?
I need to ask you a few more questions about your mother's death.    M INI Sure, come on in.
I know, it's stupid as hell to talk to a cop without a lawyer, but I didn't want to look jumpy and my first real interrogation? I could feel something tingle deep inside.
It's a little early for the prom, isn't it?
A girl can dream, can't she?
Perfectly legal. So, anyway, we got the preliminary coroner's report. Although the pills knocked her out, she died of the carbon monoxide poisoning from the exhaust.
Is it that important?
Well, it's just a little unusual for a suicide victim to use two methods. Her choices seemed, I don't know how to put it... improvisational.
Well, maybe she wanted to drift off before the fumes got her? She clearly put some thought into that outfit.
Clearly...But dying from carbon monoxide poisoning is actually pretty painless, you just basically pass out.
I doubt she would have had an intimate knowledge of how car fumes feel when you choke on them.
I suppose you're right...Also we checked the phone records and there was a 911 call placed at 8:12. It was a hang up and when the 911 dispatcher called back a few minutes later, there was no answer.
Really?
Any idea why she'd call 911?
Okie fine, this may be the most exciting thing I've done in a while, but even I know when the rush isn't worth the risk.
Look, I think you should come back when my father's around. He'll be upset I let a stranger in the house.    G ARSON I think you're safe with me.
Even so, he won't be happy.
Not a problem, will he be home tonight?
And you let him in?!
I played it cool, it would've looked worse to be defensive.
Well, when's he coming over?
Tonight?
Tonight!? I've got a dinner with Chapman. I've already cancelled--  Damn it! Why didn't you call me?!
 Hey, I didn't know you had plans!
Listen, I'll be home early so we can get the story straight.
Okay.
I really appreciate you taking the time to help us out. There's just a few loose ends we want to tie up.
Absolutely. What would you like to know?
There appears to be some question as to the time of death. You said you went to dinner and a movie-
Detective, not to be overly sensitive, but do I need my lawyer here? Because these sound like the questions one asks when there's a homicide investigation.
Mr. Tannen, I'd really like to just finish this up, I've got real homicides that need attention. How about if I just ask you some questions and the one's you don't want to answer, we'll just skip?
That sounds good, doesn't it, Dad? I mean, let's just get this over with.
Fair enough.
Terrific...now, the preliminary blood report indicated she had ritalin in her system.
I wasn't aware my wife was taking ritalin.
Neither was her physician, he had never prescribed it.
Well, as you may have discovered by now, my wife had substance abuse problems, I'm sure there were many drugs she took without a prescription.
I know, but it's an odd drug to be taking. It's mostly given to adults and children with Attention Deficit Disorder to calm them. But in people who don't need it, it has the reverse effect, making them incredibly hyper and agitated.
Again, Detective, I really can't say why she was taking these drugs.
Fair enough...Mr. Tannen, were you and your wife close?
No...we led, for the most part, separate lives. We had decided to stay together for Mini.
oh...sacrifice personal happiness for the benefit of the child. Excellent.
I see...
Listen, Detective Garson, I must admit I don't see the relevance of these questions. Diane was an extremely disturbed person. Haven't you interviewed enough people who saw her at her worst?
Yes, but what I'm still unclear about is her time of death.
Well, that makes two of us... Again, detective, we were out for the whole evening.
 After dinner you saw a movie that night?
That's right.
Start time 9 o'clock.
What did you see?
That new Jackie Chan movie where the terrorists try to blow up Mount Rushmore.
Running time 115 minutes.
Ahh...My buddy told me the end is crazy.
For god sakes, does he think we wouldn't actually see it?
Yeah, he slides down Washington's nose with the bomb strapped to him.
Dad...Don't give it away, he hasn't seen it yet.
Another demerit...
That's okay...Where did you see it?
The Galleria.
Drive time 17 minutes.
And you got home at?
Precisely...
11:30.
With 12 minutes of previews. You didn't think we'd forget the previews?
Now, if there aren't any more questions, it is a school night.
No, that about wraps it up for now.
For now? Detective we are trying very hard to put our lives back together, but every time you come by, it just dredges everything back up. We've told you everything we know.     G ARSON I wish I could be more definitive.
Well, I'm telling you the next time you have a question, it had better be because you're charging us-
Us?
I'm just asking you to please let us deal with our grief and get on with our lives.
 Thanks again for your time.
What the hell was I thinking, letting you talk me into this?
It's probably just routine stuff.
That was not routine, my dear.
Nice use of the word "us", by the way.
Sorry, it just slipped out.
If I had a nickel for every time I heard that-
 Okay.
Look, just chill, I'm sure this will blow over in a few days.
Chill?! Believe me, we'll be chilling in a pine box if he figures everything out. You do understand they could go for the death penalty?
He's probably just trying to spook us.
Hello?! They don't try and spook you unless they think you did it!
It was a great plan, no one can prove we stuck those sleeping pills in her mouth, because we didn't.
 Well, if it was such a great plan, why am I cancelling business dinners to accommodate a detective who appears convinced it wasn't a suicide?
I'll see you later.
Where are you going?
Out.
Would he follow?
Was there any question?
A phone call would have been appreciated at some point. I was worried.
Worried that refugee from a J.Lo video rode me `til the tires fell off?
Uh...Martin, I'm not sure you're aware, but at this point you can't be my dad and my lover. Where I go and how late I stay out is my business.
I wasn't saying that as a dad.  Before your mother and I...grew apart, I would worry if she was out late.
Well, that's sweet, but I'm not her and I can assure you I won't end up passed out in some greaseball's fuck pad with my panties around my ankles...  nless I choose to.
What the hell's gotten into you? I just expressed concern for you and you turn around and threaten me? Mini, in a relationship, it's okay to worry about someone else.
I kind of have to admire this. He really is one of the world's premiere bullshit artists.
Haven't you ever been in a relationship?
My god, you haven't.
Congratulations...  you're my first.
Oh, angel.
And I'd like to thank the academy and god and, oh yeah, "Free Tibet".
Fake tears aside...he actually was my first relationship. Which, in itself, was significant, because I had always felt that by living my life by the rule of firsts, I would never be able to find someone who could accept me on those terms.
And I was willing to give him the chance to be that person...
...if he could just hold it together.
Morning, Lois.
Mr. Tannen, this just arrived for you.
That's when things started to get interesting.
Lois, I need you to re-schedule the Chapman meeting...  I know...Tell him...tell him it's an unavoidable emergency.
What do you mean you don't keep records on who your senders are?
When it's paid cash, we only keep records on packages, not envelopes.
Yeah?
Mr. Tannen, I just spoke to Mr. Chapman...he told me to tell you that he's going to be seeking a new firm to handle his company's needs.
Thank you, Lois.
Steve? Charlie? What, what are you doing in town? Why didn't you tell me you were coming-- ATHER We just heard about Chapman...not that it matters.
We can't afford to lose any more clients.
Jesus, guys, my wife just committed suicide...
No one's saying this isn't a difficult time for you, but whatever's been distracting you started long before that.
There's just no way to sugarcoat this...you're a liability we can't afford anymore...
Fifteen years...we've been--
 We'll be asking all our clients who they would prefer to stay with, and of course, you'll have an equal shot to make your case with them.
Fucking shit! Fucking shit! Fucking shit!
Look at that smug prick...He's fucking with me and I will not be fucked with.
What are you gonna do?
I'm gonna go over there and tell him to back off or he's gonna get hurt.
Are you crazy? We're not even positive it's him!
My god, the picture was dropped off at a messenger service right across the street from his office! He was the only person at the resort who knew who we were!
He could go to the cops and tell them you threatened him, then they'd really start investigating us. It's just one photo and you can't even really tell if it's me.
That son of bitch just cost me the firm I worked fifteen years to build.
Well, if you start waving that thing around, he's gonna cost you a lot more than that.
Martin didn't sleep at all that night and made damn well sure I didn't either.
With Mommy Dearest out of the way, I decided to take the matter of Rudell into my own hands. I knew Martin wouldn't approve, but at this point...action had to be taken.
I would catch him off guard, disorient him and then kill him...
...with kindness.
Hi, Mr. Rudell, I'm sorry to bother you.
Not at all, as I said down in Mexico...  anything for a neighbor.
May I come in?
Wow, I haven't been here since you redecorated.
It was just finished. I'm sorry your mother never got to see it completed.
I know she'd approve.
If you don't mind me asking, ...how are you doing?
It's been hard, but I guess I've just been telling myself that she's probably much happier where she is now.
You're absolutely-
Positive!?
 Well, that too, but "correct" was the word I was thinking of. Do you like the show?
Oh, god, it's my favorite. I love how you never know if the couples will decide to stay together.
I could arrange for you to go to the set one day if you'd like, or even be a contestant?
A contestant? Really?
Sure, those dates are really quite harmless. You just spend an evening with the person. We prep you on what to say before the show.
It sounds like fun.
Anyway, what's on your mind?
Well, um...this may sound strange, but you haven't seen any suspicious looking people around our house lately?
No, is everything okay?
Yes, it's just that since mom's death, someone sent us a photo of Martin and I together.
Together?
It indicated that we were...I know this sounds crazy, but...a couple.
A couple? You and Martin? Hmmm...I mean, certainly older men and younger women are an  ...accepted part of society, but for someone to do that, well...it's just tasteless.
Exactly, so we're just trying to figure who Rit could be.
Hmm, I haven't noticed anyone at all...Out of curiosity, what kind of a picture could they send you to indicate that you and Martin were together?
Oh, it wasn't like we were naked or anything. I mean, of course, he's seen me naked, he is my step- father.
Of course.
Much to my surprise, I was invited to stay for a refreshing beverage...
I knew he had had no shortage of young women in his bed, but he had been paying for it in one form or another for a long time.
And the one undeniable fact I had learned from Martin is that there is no greater thrill or triumph in a man's life...
...than getting a ripe young woman to open the gates to heaven for no other reason than she wanted to.
Frankly, I'm surprised the anticipation of pulling off a mother-daughter double dip didn't give him a stroke right there. XT. RUDELL'S FRONT GATE - LATER.
"Who can take tomorrow? Dip it in a dream, separate the sorrow and collect up all the cream, the candy man, oh, the candy man can"
I left that day, exhilarated in the knowledge that in one afternoon, I had turned Rudell into a trout on a line...and he'd follow me anywhere I tugged the pole.
 "The candy man can 'cause he mixes it with love and makes the world taste good..."
The photos stopped coming and although Martin was freaking out about his business, things were returning to normal. I even decided to return to school.
Mini, I've got a message for you to go to the principal's office right away.
Then things got interesting again.
Detective Garson, is everything all right?
Mini, this tape was shot a week before your mother's death.
The next day, the school nurse reported two bottles of Ritalin missing from the medicine cabinet.
We've lifted two prints from the door and the inside of the medicine cabinet. They don't match the nurse.
Mini, is there something you'd like to say to Detective Garson?
Can we see the tape of the Der Fhrer sucking down her afternoon fix of Smirnoff, or don't you have cameras in the bathroom stalls?
Young lady, stealing anything, especially prescription drugs is a serious matter.
You got me, okay?   But what was I supposed to do?
What do you mean?
 She...She said if I didn't, she was...was gonna--
Who?   Another student?
My mother! She made me steal them for her! I didn't want to, but she said she was going to send me to boarding school in Canada if I didn't!   P RINCIPAL ANDREWS Canada?
 The Yukon territories! Are you happy, now? You got me!
Oh my lord, I had know idea, she was--
An addict? Detective Garson knew! We told him, and now what? The whole school's gonna know!?
She's dead, my mommy's dead. Can't we just leave her be?
Detective Garson, I assume, there won't be a need to press charges against Ms. Drogues?
 You gonna cuff me, Copper!?
She's free to go.
Ah, Mr. Tannen, we were just coming up to see you. Have you got a minute?
Detective, I told you no more questions without my lawyer.
I think you'd better call him.
There's a small discrepancy that I can't quite figure out and I was hoping you might be able to explain it.
I suppose I can try.
The final toxicology report came back and your wife definitely didn't die from the pills. She wasn't conscious past 9:30, but it was the fumes that killed her. ARTIN Well, hallelujah, thanks for the update-
Martin, easy.
I'm sorry, but this is harassment.
See, here's what I needed to ask you. The gas tank in the Jag was almost full, just a gallon had been used.
And?
Well, if she was unconscious by 9:30, that means the car must have been running for at least two hours when you found her. An unconscious person can't turn on a car, right?
Detective, with all due respect, could you get to the point?
Well, here's where I get confused, see, that particular model idling for two hours will burn at least four gallons of gas.
So, there's really no way the tank could be almost full if it was running for two hours. Is there?
So, I guess what I'm asking is, whose idea was it to put her in the car?
Martin, don't say anything.
Now, Mr. Tannen, you clearly had the most to gain from her death, but I've learned from a number of your wife's friends that she and Mini had a strained relationship.
Again, Detective, my client won't be answering anything, so let's just cut the cat and mouse.
I'd like Mr. Tannen to know that if he's trying to be a protective father by covering up something Mini did, I'd be careful. The district attorney is viewing this case as an opportunity to show the public that the rich don't get away with murder in this town.
Does this mean he's offering Mr. Tannen immunity if he says he was protecting his daughter?
It's a strong possibility. But he wants Mr. Tannen to know he will go for the maximum sentence if he doesn't. No manslaughter, no plea bargains, nothing.
It was Colonel Mustard in the library with the candlestick.
 Uh...Miss Drogues, as your lawyer-
Don't wet your pants, I know when to shut up and swallow...
...my tongue.
Look, the fact that the marriage was unhappy and there was no pre- nup gives all the motive to Martin.
So you want me to say it was his idea?
If it was his idea, give me one reason you should take the fall?
At that moment I knew we had him. If he was trying to get me to rat on Martin, he didn't have enough to charge either one of us.
So if I tell the jury it was his idea and I was scared for my life, because he said he'd kill me if I ever told anyone, then I walk?
Sorry, sport, but I'll take my chances.
I never doubted for a minute you were going to hold firm. Not a second. I hope you know that?
Oh, I knew...I knew.
Good. You realize, we've got to rely on each other?
Who else do we have?
Exactly. We're almost home free. My lawyer says that gas gauge theory is circumstantial as hell. I've only got one concern now.
What?
Rudell. If a jury knew we were a couple, we've both got a motive and that changes everything.
Baby, don't worry about him, he's just jealous 'cause you've still got rockin' abs and a better hairline.
Even if he did send that picture, what does it prove?...Nothing.
For all of Martin's talk of relying on each other...
Garson had succeeded in planting the seeds of distrust.
Our relationship had turned into what some might call...
...unhealthy.
Something had to give, and ironically enough, it was the night I was making my television debut. 
I had asked Martin to be home by eight for a big surprise.
Oh, hey, come and watch. You're missing me, I'm on TV!
What? Why?
Hurry up, the commercial's almost over!
Welcome back to Absolutely Positive. Now it's time to hear how the date between Jason and Mini ended.
You? You went on-
Yeah, I thought it'd be a gas...now shhh...
Jason, you said that the reason you wanted to come on the show was to test your ability to resist temptation.
 Well, since Becky and I have dated since high school and decided to remain virgins until marriage, I just wanted to go on a date with another girl just to see how I would react. You know, whether there'd be any feelings of doubt about my decision?
So, after dinner, what happened?
Oh, gosh, well she suggested we go to a dance club she knew. I'm not really a good dancer, but I said "yes."
 We never go dancing.
So, Mini, is Jason a good dancer? INI Well, he's a damn quick learner, and not just at dancing.
Martin, for god's sake, that was their line. You think I talk like that?
Oh, really? So there was some other teacher-student stuff going on?
 Uh, no, not really-
Oh, come on, what about when we went back to your place?
You what?!
I, I don't know what she's talking about.
Come on, don't be bashful. He put on some soft music and-
No! This isn't true, why are you-
We started kissing and-
Jason!
 Shut up!
OOOOHHHHH!
But, Jay-Jay, it was really special.  He loves to be called "Jay-Jay".
You, you...
Let me tell you, Becky, you're in for a wild ride from this Bronco.
WHOOOOOOAAAA!
Did, did you...
You slept with her?!
God, Martin, it was a one time thing. He was a virgin, how could I say "no"? Believe me, she'll thank me after their wedding night.
You had me come home early to-
Don't be jealous. It won't happen again. It was just a goof.
Rudell? He let you go on?
Yeah, I thought it would be fun. I wasn't really supposed to, you know, "go all the way" but-
I can't believe you...th-that couple, you ruined their relationship. INI Excuse me, but the show is called Absolutely Positive for a reason. Clearly, the only thing Jason was positive about was-
You're a sick little twist, you know that?
Well, what does that make you?
 I need some air.
Oh, by the way, some intern from your office stopped by earlier today with something. It's on the desk.
What is it?
Oh, my god.
 I think it's time I had a little chat with our neighbor
No, this is exactly what he wants! What if he's working with Garson?
Then he can't blackmail me. Wait here, I'll be right back.
No, please, don't do this! Let me go with you!
I said wait here.
Don't do this, we can leave tonight! We'll drive to Mexico!
He'll never leave us alone, you realize that?
No! Let me talk to him, he promised me he wouldn't hurt us!
He did? When?
A few days ago!
You saw him?
I went to try and find out what he knew! I spent the afternoon with him-      M ARTIN You...spen-
I was doing it for us! I figured he wouldn't turn us in if I...
If you...?
If I made him think I was... interested.
And was he?
Please tell me you didn't.
No...
I just made him think I would, so he wouldn't turn us in.
 Thank you, I appreciate your restraint.
Fuck you. I'd think you'd be a little more appreciative.
Who were you doing it for when you did it with that kid? Huh? Who was that selfless act for!?
Oh, like you're such a martyr for being faithful? It shows amazing restraint to limit yourself to just one stepdaughter!
Don't lecture me about fidelity! Your mother was cheating within six months of the "I do's"!
Now, if you'll excuse me...
Please-- Look, I'm sorry, I really am, but this isn't the answer!
You're hurting me!
 Calm down or I'll snap it in two, do you hear me?
Now, I want you to wait here for me. Do you understand?
 Please don't do this.
Martin, what a surprise, how are you?
Just watched Mini on your show.
Ahh...was tonight the night? We taped that two weeks ago. Let me tell you, I have girls audition all the time for me and...  She was fucking incredible.
A natural, huh?
Like a duck to water...and totally willing to take direction.
I wish all the girls I worked with had her...how can I put this?... Need to please.
You son of a bitch...
"Let's take it nice and easy..."
 Yes, hello, you've got to send a police car to 2376 Mira Loma Lane right away! My father's gone crazy, I think he's going to hurt our neighbor...yes 2376 Mira Loma, oh god, hurry!
"Hey, baby, what's your hurry? Relax, don't you worry..."
Where are they?! Huh?
What are you talk-
Don't fuck with me! The negatives!
What?!
"The problem now of course is, to simply hold your horses..."
"To rush would be a crime..."
You son of a bitch! How's that feel?! You like that?! You thought you could have my wife and my daughter too?!
"`Cause nice and easy does it, nice and easy does it..."
Sorry, pal, she's mine! Diane may have taken pity on you between vodkas, but not her! Not her!
Now tell me where they are or I swear to god, I'll crack your head open!
Martin, don't!
Go look for the negatives!
No! This is insane!
We need the negatives!
You're gonna kill him!
What are you doing! He'll tell everyone!
Freeze, police!
Drop the club and put your hands up!
Thank God! Thank God, you came!
Mini, you called them?! How could you call them?!
He's...he's crazy, I told him not to! I told him to stop!
"Nice and easy does it...every time."
Needless to say, my appearance on Absolutely Positive was the most sought after clip in every newsroom in town.
The trial was quick. Once Mom's affair with Rudell came out, the D.A. realized he had a motive and a slam dunk. HE FOREWOMAN, an elderly hispanic woman, casts a harsh eye towards Martin and then reads the verdict.
Guilty.
Since, Rudell was in a coma, the issue of my relationship with Martin was moot. Martin realized trying to pin anything on me would probably get him the chair.
At his sentencing I begged for leniency. He got off with ten for the attempted murder of Rudell and twenty to life for mom's death.
The outpouring of support was amazing.
Martin's assets were put in a trust for me and since I was eighteen, I was allowed to live by myself.
I'm sorry I forgot to bring that book you wanted.
It's okay, Myou can mail it.
Are you okay? You look like you haven't showered in days.
 Well...uh...you have to be careful about sh-...So how's school?
 You'll never guess what happened.
What?
I was voted valedictorian!
But don't you have to be-
The best student? I know! But the students took a vote and they said they wanted me to have it for demonstrating remarkable courage in the face of unspeakable loss.
 I wonder how the real valedictorian feels?
Like slitting his wrists with the sharp end of a protractor.
Is Rudell out of his coma yet?
I don't know, why?
Why?  Mini, if he recovers, he may try to blackmail you with those pictures.
 Oh...I wouldn't worry about that.
But if the D.A. got those pictures, you could-
I'm pretty sure he won't be doing anything with them.
Mini, you're not thinking of sleeping with him to keep him quiet? Because I've met people in here who could help us with him, if it comes to that.
Help us?
They know people on the outside we could...pay to make sure he doesn't try to take advantage of you.
Oh, gosh, that's so romantic. It's like you're a real life criminal with connections and everything, but I'm a little surprised you haven't figured it out yet.
What?
Oh...wow, like I thought you were just playing along `cause I'm your only link to the outside world, but you really don't know?
Rudell didn't send those pictures.
You remember, Aurelio?
Our cabana boy from Mexico?
What a sweetie, I thought I might have to fuck him, but just giving him the camera was enough.
You...you...
It was pretty clear Garson wasn't gonna give up, and sooner or later he'd find enough to charge us. It just seemed ridiculous that we'd both end up suffering.
Oh, come on, you would've done it if you thought of it first...you know I'm right.
 Hey, listen, since conjugal visits are pretty much out of the question, I thought it would be cool if we tried a little prison phone sex.
They don't tap these lines, do they?  I think I might even be able to open my blouse without anyone seeing...you ready?
Guard!
No? Are you sure? I won't be able to come back for a few weeks.  Wait, have you met someone in here?!
Guard!
Why, you old dog! I knew you wouldn't be single in here for long.
Guard! She did it! She just admitted it! It was her idea!
I guess this means I could start dating around too?
Don't let her leave! She's guilty! Get the warden! UARD Okay, that's enough!
You bitch! You little whore!
 Daddy, why are you saying those things!
I'm gonna kill you! Do you hear me, you little bitch!
 Daddy, stop! I love you! Don't say that! I love you!
...As many of you know, the past few months of my life have been very difficult. I don't know how I would have gotten through it without all of you. I really think it is a testament to the love in this institution, that I stand before you today, as the first straight "C" student in school history voted Valedictorian.
EMPTY_LINE
Again, to Marvin Tepperman, the real valedictorian, he deserved this and I want to wish him a speedy recovery. I spoke to his doctors today and they say, with medication and therapy, Marvin should be able to attend Harvard this fall.
While I may not have excelled in the classroom, I think my recent experiences in that bigger schoolhouse we call "life", have taught me a few lessons that I'd like to share with my fellow graduates.
Follow your heart and don't question it, now matter where it tells you to go. Trust me, it'll open up a world of new experiences you can't even imagine.
But as you listen to it, don't forget your family, your parents. Don't forget they're people too, and while we may not always agree with them, remember to love them when they need love.
 And I mean really love them, don't just pay them lip service. Really do it...Whenever you can.  
I know I did, and I just wish my dad could be here today, so after this speech I could just walk down into the audience and give him my love right here...in front of all of you. Thank you and good luck.
Like I promised, no prom night highjinks, no nerds becoming popular, no Shakespeare shoved up your ass.
And in case you're feeling guilty about having no one to identify with but me, relax...
...There's a first time for everything.
