Shet11 live. KATE closes her eyes. I can tell you now, I thought she wouldn't,
Doctor. Will my girl be all right?
Oh, by morning she'll be knocking down Captain Kellerfs fences again.
Is there nothing we should do?
Just let her get well, she knows how to do it better than we do. These things come and go in infants, never know why. Call it acute congestion of the stomach and brain. KELL ? moves after the DOCTOR, we hear them off-camera; we see only KATE'S face hovering over us, her hand adjust- ing the blanket.
I'll see you to your buggy, Doctor.
0 Main thing is the fever's gone. I've never seen a baby, more vitality, that's the truth -- Their voices and footsteps fade. KATE is bent lovingly over the crib, which emits a bleat; her finger is play- ful with the baby's face.
Hush. Don't you cry now, you've been trouble enough. Call it acute congestion, indeed, I don't see what's so cute about a con- gestion, just because it's yours? We'll have your father run an editorial in his paper, the wonders of modern medicine, they don't know what they're curing even when they cure it. Men, men and their battle scars, we women will have to -- Helen, Helen Captain, Captain, will you come. 
Katie, what's wrong?
Look.
She can't see. Look at her eyes. She takes the lamp from him, moves it before the child's face. She can't seel
Helen. Heleni
She can't hear youl
His face has something like fury in it, crying the child's name; KATE almost fainting presses her knuckles to her mouth, to stop her own cry.
maze, the sheets blowing in the wind; and staggering among them is the figure of the child, HELEN 5 years old, reach- ing out, struggling, buffeted by the damp, blowing sheets, CRANE DOWN towards the figure. HELEN lashes out, her face frightened, unknowing --- she pulls down a sheet, be- comes tangled in its folds, almost hysterical. In the BG KATE comes rushing from the house -- to help her.
smiles. She is flanked by the other two, in a litter of 0 paper-doll cutouts, and while they speak, HELEN'S hands thrust at their faces in turn, feeling baffledly at the movements of their lips. The CAMERA is on this; the dialogue is only background.
Why you cuttin' off that doctor's legs?
I'm gonna give him a operation. Now I'm gonna cut off his arms, one, two. Now I'm gonna fix up She pushes HELEN'S hand away from her mouth. You stop that.
Cut off his stomach, that's a good operation.
No, I'm gonna cut off his head first, he got a bad cold.
Ain't gonna be much of that doc- tor left to fix up, time you finish all them opera-- But HELEN is poking her fingers inside his mouth, to feel his tongue; he bites at them, annoyed, and she jerks them away. HELEN now fingers her own lips, moving them in imitation, but soundlessly. Again the CAMERA on this.
What you do, bite hand?
That's how I do, she keep pokint. her fingers in my mouth, I just bite 'em off.
-.That she tryin' do now?
She tryint talk. She gonna get read. Looka her try in' talk.. ILLEN is scowling, the lips under her fingertips moving in silence, growing more and more frantic, until in a bizarre rage she bites at her own fingers. This sends PERCY off into laughter, but alarms :MARTHA.
Hey, you stop now. She pulls EELEI' S hand down, You just sit quiet and But at once HELEIT topples LTARTHA on her back, knees pinning her shoulders down, and ;-ravs the sissors. MARTHA screams, hile her tied b _nchlets of hair f17 off in snips of the scissors. PERCY darts to the bell stria on the porch, yanks it W THE DELL
bOA. DAY. INT. LIVID ROOLI
 Helen. She is dorm the steps at once to them, seizing Ii LE'TT S wrists and lifting her off IARTHA. VINE= runs in and chases MARTHA and PERCY OFF.
She tries to drrrr HELEN into the house. HELEN jerks swwray. KATE next goes do.-,rn on her knees, tskes ?ELE! 1 S hands gently, and using; the scissors like a doll, m& es HELi N caress and cradle them; she points =,Y' S finger houseward.s. IIILEN' S whole body now beco_nnes ea^er; she surrenders the scissors, KATE t?'-rns her toward the door and -..hues her a little pus-1. I LEN scrambles up and toward the h_u se, and NA= risin- follows her,
Arthur, something ought to be done for that child.
A refresh,; ng suggg;estion. 'l .at?
'-Thy, this ver-T famous Perkins School in Poston; they're just supposed to do wonders.
The child's been to speci lists everywhere. The- couldn't help her in Baltimore or 1,1 -7aslaington, could they?
:ratie, Howe many tines can you let- then brew.{ your heart? Any number of tines, h T e foreroinz and follovrin" dialo,ue is peripheral to the we are on }EL ' T 1 She sits on the or to explore the doll t71th h.r fingers, gravely, and her hand pauses over the face: this is no face, a blan area, and it troubles her. CLOS'_' UP on her finger-- tips searching for flaatures. She tans ouestioninSly f'o:' eyes, but no one notices. She then yanks at her _Jfl''T1S dress, and taps amain viForousRy for eyes. 0 C O:T'! I ICJ n
What, child? Obviously not hearing, HELEN commences to go around from person to person, tapping her eyes, but no one attends or understands.
 As long as there's the least chance. For her to see. Or hear, or --
There isntt. Now I must finish here.
I think, with your permission, Captain, I'd like to write to the Perkins School.
I said no, Katie.
They can't.
We won't know that; to be a fact, Captain, until afLLer you write. 13. HELEN NOW IS GROPING AMONG THING.' ON FELL ER t S DESK, AND
 What?
Some asylum. It's the kindest thing.
Why, she's your sister, James, not a nobody --
Half sister, and half-mentally defective, she can't even keep herself clean. It's not pleasant to see her about all the time.
Do you dare? Complain of what 0 you can see?
 This discussion is at an end] HELEN gropes her way with the doll back to AUNT EV. The house is at sixes and sevens from morning 'til night over the childl I want some peace here, I don't care how, but one way we won't have it is by rushing up and down the country every time someone hears of a new quack. I'm as sensible to this affliction as --
Helena My buttons.
HELEN pushes the buttons into the doll's face. KATE 0 now sees, comes swiftly to kneel, lifts HELEN'S hand to her own eyes in question.
Eyes? HELEN nods energetically. She wants the doll to have eyes. Another kind of silence now, while KATE takes pins and buttons from the sewing basket and attaches them to the doll as eyes. KELLER stands, caught, and watches morosely, AUNT EV blinks and conceals her emotion by inspecting her dress.
My goodness me, I'm not decent.
She doesn't know better, Aunt Ev. I'll sew them on again.
Helen! All are in commotion, the baby screams, but HELEN un- perturbed is lying her doll in its place, KATE on her
knees, pulls her hands off the cradle, wringing them; 0 HELEN is bewildered.
Helen, Helen, you're not to do such things, how can I make you
 Katie.
How can I get it into your head, my darling, my poor --
Katie, some way of teaching her an iota of discipline has to be
I didn't say it was her fault.
Then whose? I don't know what to dot How can I teach her, beat her -- until she's black and blue?
It's not safe to let her run around loose. Now there must be a way of confining her, somehow, so she can't---
Where, in a cage? She's a growing child, she has to use her limbs!
Answer me one thing, is it fair to Mildred here?
Now what?
She wants to talk, like -- be like you and me. She holds HELEN struggling until we HEAR from the child her first sound so far, an inarticulate weird noise in her throat such as an animal in a trap might make; and KATE releases her. The second she is free, HELEN blunders away collides violently with a chair, falls, and sits weeping. KATE comes to her, embraces, caresses, soothes her, and buries her own face in her hair, until she can control her voice.
Every day she slips further away. I don't know how to call her back.
Oh, I've a mind to write to Boston myself. If that School can't help her, maybe they'll know somebody who can.
 I'll write to Perkins, Katie. He stands with the baby in his clasp, staring at HELEN'S head, hanging down on KATE'S arm.
M.R. ANAGNOS on platform with ANNIE'S suitcase, is reach- ing up to help ANNIE mount steps. CAMERA is behind
0 -- only that a suitable governess has been found here and will come. It will no doubt be difficult for you there, Annie, but it has been difficult for you at our school too, hmmm?
...-This is my last time to counsel you, Annie, and you do lack some -- by some I mean all -- what, tact, or talent to bencT. To others. And what has saved you on one or more occasions at Perkins is that there was nowhere to expel you to. Above ANNIEIS seat ANAGNOS puts her suitcase, looking .down at her. Your eyes hurt?
My ears, Mr. Anagnos.
 What?
0 Well, he keeps digging up that battle.
That is not a proper thing to say. Annie, be humble. He extends a gift to her.. You'll need their affection, work- ing with this child. ANNIE, not quite comprehending, looks at gift. A gift with our affection. ANNIE opens a small box and sees a garnet ring. She looks up, blinking, then down.
Dear Mr. Anagnos, 
But she swallows over getting the ring on her finger and cannot continue until she finds a woebegone joke.
Which half? The train lurches. ANAGNOS bends and kisses her on the cheek and says,
Goodbye. Goodbye.
(She calls after him
I won't give them any trouble. I'll be so ladylike they won't notice I've come.
0 Passengers behind ANNIE turn reacting to her shout. She is conscious of this and sinks down'in seat. Past ANNIE, through window of train, we see ANAGNOS join 5 or 6 blind girls on the platform, and the train departs.
Where are we going, Annie?
Jimmie.
Where are we going?
I said I'm taking care of you.
Where we go...
11Al3' S VOICE Annie Sullivan, aged nine, virtually 0 blind; Jaynes Sullivan, aged seven, -- what's the matter with your legs sonny?
It's his hip, N ster, he was born that way. is AN' S VOICE Can't he walk without that crutch? The GIRL shakes her head.
