I'm sorry... I... I... I wasn't trying to get away...
No, please don't...
What time is it?
Almost 8:30... Coffee?
No, you're going to be late.
Go back to sleep... I'll call you, OK?
Yeah, I won't be working until later tonight.
You shaved?
I like it. It makes you look younger.
Good luck!
See you later, Angie.
Sorry, I'm late... Have you been waiting long?
I just got here.
You look awful.
Thanks Larry.
You know, you should sleep at night. Come in...
So did you find an apartment yet?
No, not yet.
You need a place to stay?
No, I'm staying at my sister's, in Queens.
I didn't know you had a sister. What does she do?
She's a bartender.
That's not too good for you! Anyway, you know you are always welcome to stay at our house.
I ran into Amy the other day. How are things going between the two of you?
So, why did you want to see me Ben?
You know what I want. I'm ready to come back, I'm feeling much better now.
Listen Ben, I can't bring you back on the force. Nobody in the squad wants you around right now. I'm sorry but I have to be honest with you. You understand, right?
Larry, I'm telling you, I'm ready.
If it was up to me, I would bring you back tomorrow, but I'm not the only one who decides. Listen, I think I've got something else for you. I know a guy at the Mayflower corporation and they need someone to watch over one of their department stores.
What?! Come on Larry, a security guard job... I'm not ready to retire yet!
Hey! I'm just trying to help here. I know you're over qualified for that position but it's a good opportunity for you for the time being...until the situation here quiets down. Also the money is not that bad.
You need the money, Ben. You're in the middle of a divorce and you've got child support to cover. If you want to see your kids, you've got to get a job, any job.
Do you know the Mayflower on West 38th Street?
I do. The one that burned down?
Yes, their night watchman hasn't shown up for work in several days. They need someone right away. Take it, relax, and we will talk about your situation again in a couple months.
Yeah, in a couple months... I gave everything for the NYPD. I almost died out there. Everyone seems to have forgotten that.
I didn't.
" ...You have reached Amy Carson. I am not available to take your call. Please leave a message and I will get back to you as soon as I can."
 Amy, it's me... I just wanted to let you know that I got a job today... It's nothing special, just a security guard job... If you still want to go ahead with it, we can sign the divorce papers... I mean, if that's what you really want.  I've been thinking about Michael's birthday tomorrow. It would be nice if we could celebrate it together ... You know, for the kids' sake... Call me... Please.
It's been five years and they're still in a legal battle with the insurance companies. Even cleaning up that mess is impossible...
You know, the Meredith family acquired this building after St. John's Hospital closed in 1952. It was the very first Mayflower to open on the East Coast.
The company wants us to patrol the premises every couple of hours, but I do my rounds every three hours and that's more than enough. Anyway, you'll see, there's not much going on. It's pretty calm around here.
Here you go... Men's department, or what's left of it anyway...
Thank God you didn't show up any later. This place gives me the chills at night. ... No electricity, and all these mirrors... You know, I live in Brooklyn near a Jewish neighborhood, and when someone dies, they cover all the mirrors in their house. Some say that it's just to renounce all vanity during the mourning period, but others say something else... They say it's to keep the soul of the dead from being trapped in the mirrors... Believe it or not, there's always a bit of truth in any superstition. Am I right?
I guess you just have to keep your eyes away from them.
Did you clean them?
What?
The mirrors, why are they so clean?
That's Gary Lewis, the fellow who worked here before you. He was completely obsessed with these damn mirrors. He'd spend the entire night polishing them.
Why did he leave?
No idea. Just didn't show up one night. I take it he's found a better opportunity somewhere else. 
Almost a year.
Why did you resign from the force? You were a detective, is that correct?
I was wounded during a holdup... It kind of changed my perspective on things.
Third floor... Ladies' department. You gotta be careful here. When the wind blows, sometimes the tiles fly off the roof and they'll just snap your ear off, if you follow what I'm saying...
Well, I'll let you get acquainted with the rest of the store on your own.
Follow me, I'll show you our "headquarters" and I'll get you one of these uniforms.
We were a pretty big team working here before the fire. When you stop to think that of all the department stores in New York, this one was the most beautiful, the most luxurious... It breaks your heart, it really does...
Here you go. This is where you'll be spending most of your time. At least you've got electricity in here. It's nice and warm, and there's even a TV.
Lorenzo Junior, my grandson... Say hello Lorenzo.
Hello.
Lorenzo and I are going to the movies tonight...
How old are you, Lorenzo?
Do you work in the department store?
I do now.
Grandpa says there are ghosts in the store... Is that true?
I think your grandpa just wants to scare you a little.
Here, this should fit you. Lorenzo, put your coat on... We are already late.  There's a drop of Jack Daniel's in the cupboard... To keep yourself warm.
Well, Ben, the place is all yours.
Oh! I forgot the most important thing... the flashlights! You'll be needing one of these at night. We've got two of them. They run on batteries. Don't forget to charge them... See you in the morning, Ben.
See you tomorrow.
Fuck...
Why did they say on TV that it wasn't supposed to snow today, but tomorrow instead? Why did they lie?
Sometimes they make mistakes, Michael. It happens...
Grown-ups don't make mistakes. Only little children do.
Daddy!
 What is that?
Well I don't know, I just found this package hidden behind a tree.
Is it for me?
Maybe...  Daisy, has Michael been a good boy? Does he deserve his birthday present?
No! Yesterday he finished the whole bag of candy when mom had told him he could only have one piece.
Not true!
Yes it's true!
No, it's not true... She's lying Daddy. I've been a very good boy, I promise.
Is mom back?
Not yet. Rosa came to pick us up from school today.
Hello Rosa!
Hello Seor Carson. How are you?
I'm good, very good... What time will Amy be back?
Not before six, Sir...
OK, I'll wait for her.
Do you want me to fix you a snack?
No, thank you. I'll be fine.
Happy birthday, Michael.
What is it?
Duh, open it stupid!
Hi Rosa... Where are the kids?
Upstairs...  ...With Seor Ben.
Hey Amy...
Look Mommy, look what Daddy got me.
It's great, you will have to show me how it works!
It's so fast Mommy!
Ben, can I talk to you, in private?
 Ok kids, it's time for your bath. No fooling around.
What is this? I already asked you not to drop by without calling, didn't I?
I do, but you never take my calls!
I don't need your calls in the middle of the night. I'm better off without them.
I haven't had a drink in three months but, then again, how would you know?
I don't want to know, Ben. I don't want to hear about it. It's not my problem. You're not my problem. You've done more than enough harm already.
You don't think people can change?
We are not talking about people, we're talking about you. How many times did you tell me you were gonna change and nothing happened? It only got worse.
Just give me another chance.
I need more time, Ben. Listen, I will never stop you from seeing your children but we have to set up some rules.
WHAT RULES?! IT'S MY SON'S FUCKING BIRTHDAY TODAY! COME ON AMY, WHAT RULE IS GOING TO STOP ME FROM SEEING HIM?
Look at yourself. You're still carrying around so much of that anger.
 I'm sorry, I didn't mean to yell at you... Things could be so different between us.
Yes I know, but it's up to you Ben.
Yeah... Anyway, I wasn't planning on staying. My shift starts in an hour. I'll just kiss them goodbye and then I'm leaving.
Mom?
Yes, honey.
Is Daddy coming back to live with us?
I don't know sweetheart. I don't know.
I haven't managed to find the source of the leak. My guess is it doesn't come from the store... It must be a municipal pipe that blew with the cold...
I'll call the company tomorrow morning and have them come take a look at it.
 What are you looking at?
Nothing special...
 Come on, you've been looking at yourself for more than half an hour. You never used to be so vain.
You can't avoid them. They're everywhere...
What are you talking about?
The mirrors... In the department store, at every street corner, in the windows of every fucking building in this city. I feel like I'm not the one looking into the mirrors, but rather they're looking at me.
You need a drink.
No, I'm serious.
Don't you think you're being a little bit paranoid?
Mirrors are just glass and silver, Ben...
Gary?
Gary?
Coming...
Mr. Carson?  Would you mind signing here, please?
You have a nice day, Sir...
I've just been through the craziest day here... No kidding! Your ex- colleagues came to pay us a visit...
What happened?
You know Gary, the guy who was working here before you, the cops found him dead in a subway station in Harlem. I never liked him too much, but poor guy, he didn't deserve to go like that...
Did they mention the cause of death?
No... they wouldn't tell me.
Well, Ben? I better get going, Mrs. Sapelli is waiting for me at home. Have a good night at work, Ben. Oh, and by the way, about that leak, they're sending someone over to work at it the beginning of next week.
Have a good night, Lorenzo.
 Damn... What is happening to me?
Are you OK? What's happening? What are you doing here?
Amy, I need you to do me a favor...
Listen, I am in the middle of work, I don't really have time now.
I need your help... It won't take more than twenty minutes. Please, Amy?
You picked up this guy yesterday morning... I need to take a look at him. It's very important.
Why do you want to see him?
He used to work at the Mayflower as a night watchman, before I replaced him.
Where did you get his driver's license?
I found his wallet in the department store. I need to find out how he died...
You are no longer a cop, Ben. This isn't your business anymore.
He sent me a package before he died, with newspaper articles about the Mayflower... I think he was trying to tell me something... I don't know him. I've never even met him, Amy... I need to figure this out.
Gary Lewis... Gary Lewis... Oh, there he is, 58B... He slashed his throat...
 There you go... There's your answer. Your man committed suicide.
You know a lot of people who cut their own throats?
 Well, all I know is that the cops are still investigating this one. That's why we still have the body. People can be very creative when it comes to suicide. I'm sure it's not the craziest thing you've seen.
Gary Lewis...
I've got to get back to work, Ben. They're waiting for me upstairs.
How... What did he slit his throat with?
With... with a piece of mirror.
...He must have smashed it into pieces to have something to slash it with...
...Seven years of bad luck.
...ESSSEKERRR...
Are you OK, Ben? What's going on?
 I need to see his files...
What?
I NEED TO SEE HIS FILES!
Come on, Ben, what is it you're after? I am not supposed to show you any file... You're not even allowed to be here. I could get fired for this.
Well, I'll be off. Amy, you know where to find me if you need me.
What is happening to you? What is all this supposed to mean? What is going on, Ben?
I won't leave until I see that file.
Look at this picture... Come and see, Amy.
Look...
What!?
Look at the piece of mirror in his hand. In the reflection of the mirror it's covered in blood, and look- in reality, it's clean. Not a drop of blood...
So what?
Don't you find it strange that this mirror doesn't reflect an exact image of reality?
I can't see the difference. It must be an effect of the angle from which the photograph was taken. What is it you are you trying to prove?
What if the mirrors were showing us something different?
What? For Christ's sake, listen to yourself, Ben! What are you talking about?
What if the mirrors were reflecting something that goes beyond reality?
 OK... This is way over my head. I don't have time for your barfly theories.
Thanks for your help...
You should go home and get some rest. This guy probably just killed himself because he couldn't live with himself anymore. It happens to thousands of people, you know...
I'm off... Amy called me today, she's worried about you. What's happening, Ben?
Please, not you...
I'm your sister, you can talk to me. Is it your new job? That place, the Mayflower, has bad vibes. It's getting under your skin. Just think about what I told you...
I made a deal, Angie... I can't just walk out on them like that. I need this job, I need the money. I'm not going to sleep on your couch for the rest of my life!
You won't have any trouble finding another one. A daytime job, a regular job...
What happened Ben? Are you all right?
LEAVE ME ALONE...
Mrs. Lewis... Sorry to bother you... My name is Ben Carson. I worked with Gary, at Mayflower. Could I come up and talk to you for a few minutes?
Mrs. Lewis ?
...5th floor, apartment 3B...
...My Gary hadn't slept at home for three weeks. At first I figured he had found himself a girlfriend, so I didn't worry much about it... It's terrible. The policeman told me that he was living in the streets... They found his body in the subway. Why? He had everything he needed here. Every morning I would have his breakfast ready when he'd come home from work.
Did he use any drugs?
Gary? Huh-huh! Never... He was a good boy.
Did you notice anything different, the days prior to his leaving the house, anything unusual in his behavior?
Oh yes, but that goes way back to when he started working at Mayflower.
What kind of changes?
He didn't care much for anything anymore. Before, we'd sit up and watch television together. But once he started that job as a night watchman, he'd spend all his time-off locked up in his room...
Sleeping?
He hardly slept anymore... He was way too busy!
Busy doing what?
That, I don't know... I never knew what he was up to...
Look, in this picture he was twelve years old...
Is that you standing next to him?
Yes, back in the days...
Mrs. Lewis, I found a note that Gary wrote. 
Esseker, is that what you're saying?
No, that don't mean a thing to me...
May I see his room?
Yes, of course. Come, follow me, it's down the hallway, the door at the very end.
Do you mind if I stay in here for a moment?
He would spend hours looking at himself...
To look at oneself too much is a sin. A terrible sin. Do you know sir in the Garden of Eden in order to seduce Eve, Satan did not keep the appearance of a snake... Satan reproduced the young woman's traits in such a way that Eve would only see and listen to the image of herself... As in a mirror.
 WHERE ARE YOU?!!
STAY CALM... I'M COMING!
I'm here Ma'am...
Ma'am? I'm right he...
Mom! Mom! Mom!
Mom! Mom!
What is it Michael?
What is it? Did you have a bad dream?
There's a lady screaming...
Where Michael?
There... In the mirror...
No, Michael... Look, there's nothing there.
I saw her mom. I swear I did.
It was just a nightmare. It's late, you have to go back to sleep. I'll turn on the night-light, if you want.
Mom, can you leave the door open?
Sure sweetheart... OK, you two go to sleep now.
Hello... Ben?
Sorry I'm calling you this late. Were you sleeping?
No, no, I just got home from work. What's wrong? You sound strange.
Don't worry, everything's OK.
Are you sure?
Actually, no. I think maybe I'm losing my mind.
What happened?
You were right about the Mayflower... I'll quit tomorrow.
That's the smart thing to do, Ben. You deserve better than that. You should come back here and get some sleep.
No, I'll wait till the daytime guy gets here to tell him.
Are you sure?
Yeah, sure. See you later, Angie.
Be careful... Love you.
Love you too, sis.
Larry? Take a look at this...
What is it?
Come take a look for yourself.
Look... Isn't Ben Carson in the picture?
The water has obliterated most of the marks. No trace of struggle or broken entry, the entrance door was locked. 
He would never have laid a finger on her. When their father died, Ben took care of his sister. Angela meant the world to him.
Listen, so far, his statement is pretty consistent with the facts... We checked it out, he did place a call from work at 12:30, and the woman's downstairs neighbors claim they started noticing the water leakage at around two in the morning. The daytime security guard, Lorenzo Sappeli, confirms he came on after Ben's shift at seven a.m. The only strange thing, and it may just be a coincidence, is that Ben told Sappeli that he had decided to quit his job, as if he was planning to go away somewhere... Did he mention anything about it to you?
No, lately, communication hasn't quite been our strong point...  I only found out yesterday that he was staying at his sister's. What are you going to do with him?
I figure we'll let him go. At this point we haven't got any real reason to keep him here. And, I think he's had his share for the day.
You know what's gonna happen if you let him go. He won't stop here. I know him, he won't stop until he finds who did this to her.
Listen, where we stand now, we got nothing, not a single clue. I'm sure he can help us.
What kind of friend are you? You are using him. He's not a cop anymore.
He's still the best one I know, even if he's one of the suspects.
Try to keep an eye on him.
You have to see someone Ben. You cannot stay in this situation any longer. You need help, psychological support.
Why don't you...if you want...come spend a few days at home, with the kids?
No, I don't want to put them in any danger.
What do you mean?
I've got things I need to deal with.
Ben, look at me! I don't want you to get into any trouble. Think about Daisy and Michael. You are not going to solve this case. Please, stay out of it.
She asked me to quit and they got to her...
What? Who are you talking about?
I know who did this Amy.
In that case, you have to tell them everything.
They wouldn't believe me and neither would you... Goodbye.
Ben, wait...
Why did you do it? WHY? WHY DID YOU HAVE TO KILL HER?
What is it you want? What do you want from me? ANSWER ME! WHAT IS IT YOU WANT?!
...Look up Esseker... Yes, Echo, Sierra, Sierra, Echo, Kilo, Echo, Romeo... Esseker. No idea, my guess is that it's a name... No, I haven't got a first name. Yes, in New York. Over the past five or six years. I know it's hazy but that's all I've got. I already looked it up in the phone book. I also called someone at the IRS and at the DMV, but nothing there. It's very important Larry. You'll call me back? Ok...
Yes, so, what'd you find out? Nothing under that name? Shit, shit, shit, shit... Can you look up Berry, Terrence Berry...
...Got anything? Great...No, I already know all that. Is he still alive? No... Can you find out where he was committed before his death? Wait, I'm writing it down...
...Roosevelt Psychiatric Detention Center... Yeah, I know where it is. Thanks.
Do you want the cereal in your hot chocolate or in a separate bowl?
Michael?
In the chocolate...
...In the chocolate, please, mom...
 ...Please, mom.
Yuck, that's gross, how can you eat that?
Come on, come on, let's get going, or you're going to be late for school.
Mom?
What is it sweetheart?
Do you know that Michael has a new friend?
No, that's not true!
Really, what's his name?
 You promised not to tell.
Does he go to your school?
 Very well. If you don't want to tell me about it...
He doesn't want me to talk about him.
Why doesn't he want you to talk about him? Is he a grown up?
No...
So, he's a little boy your age, then?
 Does he live in our street? Is it one of our neighbors?
He lives in the mirror in our room.
Is it your father who told you that?
Michael, answer me. Did your father talk to you about the mirrors?
No Mommy.
OK... Come on, come on guys, let's get our teeth brushed, and our coats on. The first one in the car is the winner.
You know, Mr. Carson, when one starts to perceive one's own reflection as a completely separate being, one is suddenly confronted with two entirely separate egos, two entirely separate worlds that can surface at any given moment-
A feeling of self-hatred, generally triggered by a psychological shock can split the personality in two, hence creating two or more personalities with distinct memories or behavior patterns within the same individual. The patient then has a faulty perception of the existence of two distinct worlds, which are principally the "real" word, and the world "inside the mirror".
Did you consider Terrence innocent?
In my opinion, he was convinced that he was telling the truth when he claimed he didn't kill his family. I too am convinced that when it happened, Terrence was not himself, but rather his double, his mirror image, one might say.
These recordings are from Terrence's trial. You will find that they speak for themselves.
Why did you set the department store on fire?
In order to... to destroy the mirrors. Only fire can destroy a mirror, isn't that right, Doctor?
What made you think you absolutely had to destroy those mirrors, Terrence?
What made you want to destroy those mirrors, Terrence?
They killed Helen and my three little girls...
For what reason? Why would mirrors want to kill your family?
Because I didn't...
Didn't do what?
They asked me to find Esseker...   Like they did with the others...
Who are the others you're talking about?
I wasn't the first one they asked...
And what happened?
I didn't succeed. I didn't succeed in finding Esseker...
Amy...  I have to go.
Tell me about Esseker, Terrence.
Who is Esseker, Terrence?
I DON'T KNOW WHO ESSEKER IS! I DON'T KNOW WHO ESSEKER IS, I DON'T KNOW!!
What are you doing dad?
Don't worry, there's nothing wrong. Everything is OK...
But why are you doing that?
I'm doing it to protect you.
Do you mind telling me what the hell you're doing?
Ben!
Look Amy, you've got to trust me, I know what I'm doing... It's for your own good.
I want you to stop what you're doing and get out of our house right now. 
If you don't leave immediately, I'm going to call the police, Ben, and I warn you, you will never see your children again. Do you understand what I'm saying?
You have to trust me Amy, I'm not completely crazy... These mirrors are dangerous. At first, I thought it was only the ones at the store, but now I know they can get you anywhere. They got Angela... I promise I'll leave the house once I've taken them all down.
Do you realize what you're saying, Ben? What is wrong with you? I know that what you're going through isn't easy. Angela was a part of our lives too, but you have no right to do this to us... Ever since your obsession with these damn mirrors the kids are scared to death. Your son has nightmares. He's scared Ben... Your behavior is starting to rub off on him. He's only 5 years old... And I have to protect him.
Come Amy, come with me, I want to show you something.
Look, you'll see...
What are you doing with that gun... Put it down, BEN... PUT IT DOWN RIGHT NOW!
ARE YOU CRAZY BEN? HAVE YOU GONE COMPLETELY MAD?
Wait, look, you'll see...
SEE WHAT, BEN?! WHAT AM I SUPPOSED TO SEE ?!
But... I swear to you I... I saw...Amy...
Get out...now! I don't ever want to see you here again, Ben. And I'll have the lawyers make sure the same goes for the kids. You are insane, Ben, and dangerous... You've got to get help.
Hello, Larry? It's me... I'm going to need your help again-
Come on, Ben... For Christ's sake! What are you doing?
Mayflower used to be a hospital before it became a department store. St. John's Hospital. Do you have any idea where all the medical records could have ended up after it closed down?
How am I supposed to know that?!
Go to the city hall archives... They must have something considering it was a public hospital.
I've got others things to do. I can't go to City Hall today. I've -
Larry, Larry stop it... If I could go myself, I wouldn't be asking you. Go to the City Hall archives, and ask them to look up Esseker among the former patients. Please.
Ben, for god's sake, what are you trying to prove?
Please, do it for me.
You know you're a real pain in the ass.
Talk to you later.
What have I done? I don't understand... What have I done?
This ought to make you happy...  Anna Esseker...
I wasn't quite sure what you needed, so I got all of her medical records.
Perfect, Larry. That's perfect.
Everyone's real edgy up there. You're still a fuckin' murder suspect. People are wondering why I let you out. You have to tell me more. What does the history of the Mayflower have to do with the death of your sister?
I don't know exactly. I can't tell you, but some really fucked up things started happening to me when I took the job over there. Nothing makes any sense to me either but I have to follow my instinct.
What happened? Did you have an accident?
Anna Esseker... Where did you find her files? Did you go to City Hall?
No, you were wrong about that, they had nothing. All the medical records from St. John's Hospital are still up there with the unclassified cases.
She was a patient at St. John's in the psych ward run by a Dr. Kane, between March and September 1952. She was only twelve years old when she died...
What?
When the nurses went on their rounds, first thing on the morning of October 6th, they discovered that all the patients had left their rooms during the night and gathered in the main room. All of them were dead, including the girl. Apparently, they had killed one another... A slaughter house... After that they shut down the place. Nobody ever found out what really happened.
What about the doctor? Dr. Kane?
He was arrested. They found him dead on the first day of his hearing. He had slit his wrists with a piece of his cell mirror!
You're still alive, aren't you?
You're wrong Larry, you're wrong...
...she left the hospital on the 4th.
Come on, come on... Let's go... Daisy, Michael?
What are you doing Michael? Come on, we're going to be late.
Amy ? What's wrong?
...You have to come over... Right away...
What?
I'm so scared, Ben...
What's happening?
There's something in the house... Something in the mirrors.
Where are Daisy and Michael? Are the kids all right?
They're with me... They're right here with me. Come over, please!
Get out of the house. I'll be right over...
I'm right here, Amy. I'm here now... Thank god you're alright.
We can't stay here, we have to leave the house now... We can go to my mother's or to a hotel...
Anyplace is gonna have mirrors or windows... Anything you can see your self in is dangerous. We have to make the house safe. The only way is to cover all the reflections. If we keep them in the dark we can avoid them. We need paint, we need tape...
When will you be back, Dad?
As quickly as I can, sweetheart. I promise.
I love you, Dad.
What if you don't find her? Maybe she doesn't live there anymore? Maybe she's really dead.
They want her, I'm gonna find her wherever she is. We don't have any other choice.
I'm sorry about everything I've put you through... I didn't want to...
I know.
Amy, I want you to stay here with the kids until all this is over. All the mirrors are covered, there's no more danger. I'll come back as soon as I can.
Hey baby, everything's gonna be fine. I love you.
Hello... Is this the Esseker farmhouse?
What is it Jimmy?
I don't know Mom.  What can I do for you sir?
I am looking for Anna, Anna Esseker.
 There's a man who's looking for...  You said Anna?  Anna Esseker, Mom!
What is it you want with Anna Esseker?
I huh... I am doing some research for a book on the history of St. John's Hospital, in New York...
Jimmy, go tell grandpa that there's a man here who'd like to talk to him about his sister.
You know, up to this day, the visions of Anna's fits still haunt me at night.
I helped my father fix up this part of the basement, especially for her-
Her fits were too violent. My mother couldn't take her screams anymore.
We had every priest, doctor, healer, coming from all over the state, one after the other. But no one could help her.
Finally, Dr. Kane from New York answered my parents' cry for help. He rejected the idea of demonic possession, said he didn't believe in it. He was convinced that Anna suffered from a rare form of personality disorder. He wanted Anna under his care, at St. John's. My parents were very poor, but he agreed to cover all the hospital costs... In less than five months, Dr. Kane had cured Anna. It was unbelievable. She was her old self again. A real miracle of science.
And after the hospital?
You don't know? She died there with all of Kane's other patients.
Anna left the hospital two days before the massacre. Kane changed the records to make her disappear.
You're not a journalist, are you? What do you want?
I want to know. After St. John's, where did she go?
Anna came back to live with us for a while...
For a while?
And after? Why did she leave?
Because... Because strange things started to happen in the house...
With Anna?
No, not with Anna...
With the mirrors?
Mr. Esseker, tell me where I can find your sister. It's very important. It's a matter of life and death.
Before he died, Kane sent us a letter asking us to keep Anna away from mirrors and that whatever happens she should be in a place where the mirrors could never find her.
Where is she now?
To protect us, she left the house and joined the monastic orders, where mirrors are forbidden... St. Augustine's monastery, on the road to Midwich.
Yes, how can I help you?
Hello Sister. I have come to visit a member of your community... Sister Anna? Her real name is Anna Esseker.
Is she expecting you?
No, not really.
Are you a relative?
Listen, Sister, I must see her.
If you are not listed, I cannot help you sir. 
Please, tell her that I came all the way from New York and that I work with Dr. Kane at St. John's Hospital...
Wait here for a moment.
Sister Anna has agreed to talk to you, you may proceed to the parlor next door.
St. John's closed down in 1952. Who are you?
My name is Benjamin Carson. I work as a night watchman at 1229 West 38th Street in New York City, what used to be St. John's Hospital.
What is it you want Mr. Carson?
I need your help.
My help? I don't quite see how I could possibly be of any help.
My wife and children are in danger. What is threatening my family is asking for you...
If you don't help me I may lose the only thing that matters to me.
I cannot leave the precincts. It's impossible.
Tell me why are the mirrors from the old hospital so determined to find you?
I must know, Sister.
It is not the wish of the mirrors to find me, but of what is imprisoned inside them. The mirrors are merely windows on our world...
A window... For what? For whom?
At the time that I was at St. John's, Dr. Kane's therapy for personality disorders consisted of locking the patient up in a mirrored room for several days on end, in order to force him to confront his own image. I spent the darkest days of my life in that room. On the 6th day the nurses found me lifeless, almost dead. Since that day, I have never had another fit. But deep down inside I've always known the truth.
What truth?
There is no cure for schizophrenia, it was something else, Mr. Carson. And whatever it was, it entered the mirror.
I thought that after fifty years, this would have all gone away. They would have disappeared from the mirrors. I didn't know.... I'm sorry but if I agree to go with you and return to that place, I will make it possible for them to cross the threshold back into the real world.
It entered with you and they need you to get out.
The consequences of such an act, Mr. Carson, would be more devastating than letting them suffer where they are now. I'm going to pray for you and your family. That's all I can do right now, Mr. Carson. God bless you...
Wait... Please, listen to me- Terence Berry, Gary Lewis and many others before me... Those are the people who died trying to find you. Because they failed, their families died too. My sister was murdered two days ago... My wife and kids will next if you don't come with me. Look-
My wife and two children. They're all I've got. They're innocent... Please.
I KNOW YOU ARE SCARED OF GOING BACK THERE. IT'S EASIER TO KEEP HIDING BUT THIS IS NOT THE HOUSE OF GOD ANYMORE. WHILE YOU'RE PRAYING PEOPLE ARE DYING ON YOUR TIME!
Hello? Ben... Where are you? Did you find her? Did you talk to...
Michael? MICHAEL!?  Ben hold on, Michael is gone...
What?
 I don't know, I fell asleep with the kids on the bed and...
Michael?
Amy, what's going on? Are you alright?
What is it Mom?
 You stay right here sweetheart, I'm going to look for your brother. Stay right here.  Ben, I have to call you back, I have to find Michael...
No Amy, stay with me...
 Fuck! There is water everywhere... Michael? Michael? MICHAEL?!
 Ben, someone scraped all the mirrors... There is someone in the house.
Where is Michael?
 I don't know where he is. I don't see him. I...
Amy? Amy? Answer me?
Damn it...
Michael?
My kids are not going to die tonight. You're coming with me, now.
If I come with you Mr. Carson, you have to promise to do everything I tell you. My way. No questions.
You have my word.
Daisy... Daisy... Come here...
Daisy... Daisy...
Micha...
Come sweetheart... Come, come closer... Come...
What are you doing in there, Mom?
Come closer, don't worry... Everything is all right, sweetheart.
Michael?! Michael?
Daisy !?
Daisy !
Oh my god, don't move baby, don't move...
Don't move sweetheart...
Why did you do this, Mom?
 It wasn't me Daisy, it wasn't me... I would never hurt you, you know that.
Whe...where is Michael ?
I don't know where he is... I'm going to take care of you and then we're going to find him...OK But for now, we have to get out of here.
Is Daddy coming back soon?
Yes, he'll be here soon as he can.
Listen to me carefully Daisy... I want you to stay in here and be quiet.
You have to be brave, sweetheart... I want you to stay in here and not get out until I come back, no matter what happens. I'm going to find Michael... Do you hear me?
I am so proud of you.
Don't move...
Michael ? Michael ?
Michael !
Michael ? What are you doing?
They want to come play with us, Mommy.
Michael, I want you to drop that knife, do you hear me? You know very well you are not allowed to play with that, don't you?
That's a good boy, now give me the knife...
MICHAEL !
Answer! God damn it... Answer the phone...
Fuck...
Something's wrong over there, my wife is not answering.
We have to get inside the Mayflower now.
From now on, I'm going to close my eyes. 
Come on, let's go.
Mr. Carson, no matter what happens in there, I want you to do as I say and make sure I never get out of this place.
They are waiting for me...
Michael ?
Tiger! Come here kitty, come here...
Watch your step, a water pipe has burst, the whole basement is flooded.
You stay outside...
Michael ?
Michael... Michael, look at me... I'm right here.
Michael, Michael... No, no...
MICHAEL !! NOOOOO...
It is over, Mom?
Yes sweetheart, it's over...
