 Desk--  What?
Senator Samuel Foley--dead. Died a minute ago--here at St. Vincent's. At the bedside was state political sidekick, Senator Joseph Paine--
 Long distance? Senator Joseph Paine speaking. I want the Governor's residence at Jackson City--Governor Hubert Hopper. Hurry--
 I knew it! I knew a night's rest wasn't possible in this house! (As the buzzer is heard again) Hubert!
 Wha--? Yes, sweetheart-- Wha--?
That infernal phone!
Yes, yes--phone, phone-- (Fumbling for the light) A--an outrage, pet--an outrage--I'll look into this--  Hello--Joe!--What!--No! Not really! Terrible!
What is it?
It couldn't have come at a worse time. Call Jim Taylor. Tell him I'm taking a plane tonight for home.
 Yes, Joe, yes--right away. (He hangs up--then lifts the receiver again and begins to dial)
What is it?
Sam Foley--dead!
Great saints!
Of all the times! Of all the times! Two months to the end of his term-- and Foley has to go and die on us--
Whom are you calling--in the dead of night?
Taylor, my dear.
Can't that wait, Hubert?
No, no--believe me, pet--this is *most* urgent--  Hello, hello. Is Taylor there?-- Governor Hopper. Quickly, please--
This isn't a home, it's the crossroads of the world!
Now, now, Emma, dear--you mustn't forget we have been chosen by the people of this commonwealth to--
 Save that for the laying of cornerstones, Hubert!  Oh, that morning you looked in the mirror and saw a statesman!
Now, pet-- (Then, excitedly into the phone) Jim!
What's up, Happy?
Sam Foley--died tonight in Washington. Joe just called. Can you imagine anything more--?
Died, huh? Well, take it easy, Happy. Is Paine coming?--Good. Keep your shirt on--and your mouth shut. No statements.
 Y-yes, Jim--Yes--
FOR VACANT SENATE CHAIR EAGERLY AWAITED
If His Excellency's statement is going to make the noon edition--
Governor Hopper said you would have it any minute--
 Will you please remind the Governor again--
He know your committee is waiting, Mr. Edwards. (Raising his voice over the room) The Governor will see *all* committees at the first opportunity.
 Yes, yes--tell them I'll see them immediately--immediately! (Snapping up the dictagraph, turning wildly on McGann) I can't hold them off! They want something to say about this appointment. Ten to one they've got a man.
Relax, Happy. Jim said to wait.
I *can't* wait, McGann! You go into that room and tell Jim Taylor and Joe Paine that I give them *one more minute*--
 *You* tell Jim Taylor.
 Washington! Always discussing the problems of Washington. Nobody ever thinks of the State--and my problems! (With sudden determination) I *will* tell Jim Taylor. It's high *time* I told him a thing or two! (He pushes the door to a small ante room)
 Look here, Jim--if you and Joe are going to gab about this appointment *any* longer, I'm going ahead and see those committees!
 You'll see those committees when we're finished!
 Yes, Jim.
That Happy Hopper is tougher to handle than a prima-donna.
--in other words, Jim--with this Willet Creek Dam on the fire--the man who goes to the Senate now in Sam Foley's place can't ask any questions or talk out of turn. We must be absolutely sure of him.
That's why I say Miller--Horace Miller. He jumped through hoops for the machine before we moved him up to the bench. He'll take orders.
Jim--suppose we didn't try to go through with this Willet Creek Dam-- suppose we postpone it until the next session of Congress--or drop it altogether--
That'd be a crime--after all this work--getting it buried in this Deficiency Bill as nice as you please-- approved--all ready to roll--
How much does the Willet Dam mean to you, Jim?
Joe--I've got a lot of people to take care of in this State.
I know, but is it worth the risk of a scandal now that a new man is going to the Senate?
Joe--what's the matter with you-- where you're concerned, I wouldn't take the slightest risk--'specially now after the great reputation you've made in the Senate. Why, look at this campaign I've started for you in all my papers. You're the logical man from the West on the National ticket--at the convention, anything can happen--
Joe, that's coming a long way in twenty years since I met you practising law down there in Main Street.
Jim--if what you say about the future is remotely possible--why not do as I say--drop things like this dam?
We can't drop it now, Joe. We bought the land around this Dam and we're holding it in dummy names. If we drop it or delay it--we are going to bring about investigations, and investigations will show that we own that land and are trying to sell it to the State under phoney names. No, Joe, in my judgment the only thing to do is push this Dam through--and get it over with.
Well, then appoint Miller--if you're sure he'll take orders.
Don't worry about Horace--he'll take orders. Come on--
Well! Thank Heaven!
 One minute! Just one minute!
Happy, we've got the man. Horace Miller!
Horace Mill--!
 Terrific! A born stooge! Horace'll perform like a trained seal.
Jim--if I fling a party man like Horace in the face of those angry committees--
Happy, for reasons there isn't time to go into--it's got to be Miller! We've given you the man. Now write the ticket.  Come on, Joe. Come on, Chick.
 Now, wait fellows--great Heavens. I've got to see those angry committees first--feel them out a little--work for harmony--harmony.
Harmony--and Horace Miller.
 Gentlemen--in considering the candidates who might answer to the high qualifications of United States Senator--there was one name that shone out like a beacon--one I'm sure you will enthusiastically approve-- the Honorable *Horace Miller*.
Miller! Not Horace Miller! A Taylor Man! The Veterans will have no part of him! A party man! One of Taylor's tools! Give us a clean man for a change! The New Citizen's Committee won't stand for Miller!
 --please--
They put up *their* candidate? Who?
 Henry Hill.
*Henry Hill?* That crackpot? That long-haired--! Why, you should have killed that so fast--!
I--I couldn't, Jim. Those men were--
We can't help *what* they were! Forget 'em!
Jim, that bunch is out for blood. If I throw Horace in their teeth now--
I said forget 'em! Horace Miller goes to the Senate--and that settles it!
I *won't* send Horace Miller!
*You won't?*
I *won't* let you stand there callously and perhaps wreck my whole political future!
*Your* political future! I bought it for you and made you a present. And I can grab it back so fast it'll make your head spin. You got a nerve to stand there and worry about just *your future* when we're in this spot! (Starting for the door) The man is--*Miller*.
 M-i-double l-e-r.
Mr. Edwards of the Citizen's Committee on the phone, sir.
 No! I'm out. I'm sick. I--I--  I'll talk.
 *Good* evening, Mr. Edwards... Why, I have the matter under advisement this very moment. Now it isn't a question of my *objecting* to Henry Hill--
 Hill is the man every decent element wants--and *expects!* It's Henry Hill, Mr. Governor--or else!
 Yes, Mr. Edwards. Certainly. I shall bear that in mind. Good night.
Dinner, Hubert.
 I'll bear that in mind... What? Oh. Dinner. Pet--my stomach couldn't hold a bird seed.
 We're waiting, Hubert.
Really, my dear--I don't feel like a thing.
 Nonsense.
 What's the matter, Dad? Is it getting you down?
Is *what* getting me down?
 You're in a deuce of a pickle, aren't you, Pop?
 Looks like Henry Hill--huh, Pop?
Naw--it's Horace Miller--or else!
Gee, I wouldn't appoint an old twerp like Horace Miller--Taylor or no Taylor!
Taylor! May I ask what *Taylor* has to do with it?
Well, he's still running the show, ain't he, Dad?
Emma! I will not have conversations of this sort carried on by the children at dinner!
Nonsense. Why don't you listen to your children for a change? You might actually learn something?
 For instance, how to run the affairs of government? No doubt my children could make this appointment *for* me-- with the greatest ease!
That's easy. Jefferson Smith.
I beg your pardon?
Jeff Smith. He's the only Senator to have.
Sure. He ought to be President.
 I like Jeff Smith.
You, too! Fine. Fine. That's everybody heard from. Forgive my abysmal ignorance--but I don't know Jefferson Smith from a--
Gosh, Pop--head of the Boy Rangers!
Oh, a *boy*!
No, *no*, Pop--Jeff's a *man*! Jeff Smith! Biggest expert we got on wild game--and animals--and rocks.
Yes, and right now he's the greatest hero we ever had. It's all over the headlines--
Sure. Didn't you see about the terrific forest fire all around Sweetwater?
I did. What about it?
Well, Jeff put that out himself.
Himself!
Well--Jeff and the Rangers. He was out camping with 'em--and they saved hundreds of people and millions of dollars--
And not one boy even scratched!
Now, if you really want a Senator--
I do *not* want a Senator. And I do *not* want any more of this nonsense! Emma!
Why, I think it's very sweet of the children--
He's the greatest *American* we got, too, Dad. Can tell what George Washington said--by heart. An' "Boy Stuff's" got the swellest stuff in it.
What stuff?
"Boy Stuff." That's the name of Jeff's magazine. He prints it. (Pulling one out of his pocket excitedly) Look--here's one--oh, it's great-- *everybody* reads it--all the kids in the State--a million of 'em. Look, Pop--let me read you a--
Peter, I'm in no mood to hear childish prattle!
Prattle!
You're all wet, Pop! Listen to this: (Flipping back to a page) "What makes a man humane to man--to give and not to take--to serve and not to rule--ideals and not deals-- creed and not greed--." How about *that*?
No, *sir*! You couldn't do better, Dad.
Than what?
Jeff for Senator.
 Emma! Will you *please*--?
 Want to get out of a pickle, don't you?
 Always looking out for votes, aren't you?
Yeah--an' here's fifty thousand kids with two folks apiece--and *they vote*!
 If you want to do yourself some good in this State, Dad--
If you're ever going to stand up like a man some day and tell Taylor to go to--
Otis!
 That settles it! I will not be attacked and belittled by my own children in my own home! My nerves are strained to the breaking point!
Hubert!
Papa's mad, Mama.
 Emma! I'm a man at the end of his rope.
No wonder--without your dinner.
Emma, which is it--Horace Miller or Henry Hill?
 Well, your children are very bright-- and *they* say Jefferson Smith.
 Henry Hill--Horace Miller--Henry Miller--Horace Hi--uh--Henry--
Heads--Hill. Tails--Miller.
I *thought* I heard... Yes?
Uh--Jefferson Smith's residence?
Yes. Come in.
Is--uh--Jefferson Smith at home?
Certainly. Step right in.
 I'll call Jeff. He's back in the shop--
Good evening, sir. I was just making some--  Governor Hopper!
Well--I'll go to Halifax!
Boys! Attention! Governor Hopper!
Now--now--please--that's quite all right. Relax, boys--
 This--this is a great honor, sir. I-- I--
Not at all. I've come to pay you a personal and official--and I might say--a *tardy* tribute, Mr. Smith, for your recent heroic conduct.
Oh, now, I'm afraid that's been exaggerated some--
No. No. A signal service to the State. Yes, indeed. And not only that but-- uh--I've heard of your excellent work in leading and guiding our youth--
Well--that's not work, sir--that's fun.
No doubt. No doubt. And this fine little paper--"Boy Stuff"--with, I dare say, an *enormous* circulation in the State.
Well--it started with a little mimeograph sheet--and it's just grown out of all sense and reason--
Excellent! Excellent! My boy, I'm convinced our State has a great debt of gratitude to you--
Oh, now--
Jefferson--
Yes, Ma?
Excuse me for interrupting, Governor, but--  --that plaster's gonna harden any second, son.
 Gosh! You see sir--I was fixing some plaster for a cast on Amos' leg-- he's always chewing 'em off. I'll only be a minute--if you'll excuse me, sir--
By all means--by all means.
Maybe you'd like to come along and watch, Governor? Jefferson's done a wonderful job with that leg.
Why, of course.
 Jerry! Blackie! Queenie! Let's have it quiet, fellows!
 Now, now, now!  It's all right, Governor.
A pet shop?
Well, it sort of got to be--from Jeff just pullin' splinters and things--
 Here, Skinny, give me a hand. Hold Amos' tail down so he can't get it around my waist.
 Now, now, now--that isn't going to get you any place. Get a firm grip, Ma!
Satan's in this little fella tonight!
 Sorry about this, Governor. But it won't take a minute. You were saying something in the other room, sir--
Well--yes--I was saying--the State should reward you--
Aw--
--And it is in my power to confer a very signal honor upon you. In my official capacity, therefore, I--
Ma! Hold him!
I just can't, son--not the head and tail both!
Uh--could--could I help--?
Thanks, Governor--*yes*! Do you mind? His head--Ma'll take the tail.
The--head?
Just get one hand against each ear there--keep his face straight up.
Amos!  Hold 'im, Governor. That's right. Cinch him down. Fine--fine--
What were you saying, Governor? Sorry.
 I said, sir--in my official capacity-- as an honorary gesture--I appoint you to the United States Senate!
Now, Amos, now-- (Then, as Hubert's words hit) What?
What?
 Ow! He bit me!
 Amos! Amos!
 --a *boy ranger* a squirrel chaser-- to the United States Senate!
Jim--the answer to a prayer--manna from heaven--the man *we want*--and the votes *we need*--
He's batty!
Listen--the simpleton of all time--a big-eyed patriot--knows Washington and Lincoln by heart--stood at attention in the Governor's presence-- collects stray boys and cats--
What!
Joe--*you* know what I'm talking about. The perfect man. Never in politics in his life. Wouldn't find out what it's all about in two *years*, lets alone two months. But the important thing--and this was the genius of the stroke--*it means votes*!
Oh--oh.
He's the hero of fifty thousand boys and a hundred thousand parents. Look at these congratulations pouring in! I tell you, gentlemen, by this one statesman-like act, I have--
 But you went ahead and made this appointment without asking me--
Jim--when the lightning hit, I--I just--
*But you never asked me*!
 Oh--Jim!
Wait a minute, boys. Happy may have hit on something tremendous here. Rather than let Miller or anyone else in at this stage, we simply put blinders on this simple son of nature-- and turn him loose on monuments. He's completely out of the way in Washington, and as Happy says, you make political capital out of it at home.
Joe--do you mean to say--do you think you can actually *handle* this--this whatever-you-call-it in Washington?
 A young patriot?--Who recites Jefferson and Lincoln?--turned loose in our nation's capital? I think I can.
 Chick--turn the ballyhoo boys loose on this right away. Greatest appointment ever made. A banquet-- declare a holiday.
Wow! A star-spangled banquet--and one of Happy's windy spiels--music-- little kids--the flag--a tear-jerker from way back--!
--in the hands of your Governor lay the power to confer a great honor-- to raise a man to the high office of United States Senator. And how did your Governor confer that honor?
Did he give it to some wealthy or influential citizen merely to curry favor? No! (As Paine is seen looking down at Jeff) Did he give it to some unworthy political hireling? No!
What *did* he do? True to our party's tradition--
--he went down among the people-- (warming to a climax, the banquet now in full view) --and there found--a nugget! A hero!! That was the spirit your Governor acted in. And in that spirit we have come together tonight to acclaim and bid Godspeed to--Senator Jefferson Smith.
 Well--uh--thank you. I--I sort of have a feeling there's been a big mistake--I mean-- (as gentle laughter greets him) --I--I can't think of a greater honor. It isn't just mine. It belongs to all my boys.  Sitting with a man like Senator Paine-- I can't tell you how much greater that makes the honor. He and my father were very dear friends.
My father used to tell me that Joseph Paine was the finest man he ever knew.
I don't think I'll be much help to you, Senator Paine. (Laughter from the audience) But I *can* promise you this--I'll uphold the honor with all my might-- I'll do nothing to disgrace the name of--Senator of the United States. (He sits down amid a storm of applause)
Who'd ever think I'd be back in Sunday School?
 Jackie!
So help me--it's Snow White and a thousand dwarfs!
 --It's a briefcase, Jeff! All the kids pitched in! It's for to carry your laws when you get there!
Well, it isn't much, but if you insist, here's this week's. 
 "Boy Stuff." Why, printer's ink runs in your veins, Jeff. You're just like your father.
Thank you, sir.
Even to the hat. Same old dreamer, too. One look at you and I can see him, back of his old roll top desk, hat and all, getting out his paper. Always kept his hat on his head so as to be ready to do battle. Clayton Smith, editor and publisher, and champion of lost causes.
Yeah, Dad always used to say the only causes worth fighting for were lost causes.
You don't have to tell me Jeff. We were a team, the two of us, a struggling editor and a struggling lawyer. The twin champions of lost causes, they used to call us.
Ma's told me about it a thousand times.
His last fight was his best, Jeff. He and his little four-page paper against that mining syndicate and all to defend the right of one small miner who stuck to his claim. You know, they tried everything, bribery, intimidation, then--well--
Yes, Ma found him slumped over his desk that morning...
Shot in the back. I was there. I can see him at that old roll top desk, still with his hat on... still with his hat on...
I know. I suppose, Mr. Paine, when a fellow bucks up against a big organization like that, one man by himself can't get very far, can he?
No.
Washington!
Yeah, for the fifth time, Senator-- Washington.
My pigeons--I better see about my pigeons.
The porter's got them. They're coming.
 Just a minute, I better make sure.
 Boy! My head's like a balloon--for two whole days. I never knew there was so much American history.
 You can't find it in racing forms, Chick.
Fine thing Jim Taylor wished on me-- show him the monuments--I need this job like I need ten pounds.
Here they are--I got them. They are all right.
Well, that ends that crisis. This way, Senator.
Hello, Father. I saw him first. He's mine---
Here, here, Susan--this is Jeff Smith-- our new Senator.
I don't care to meet anybody until I get paid--come on--come on. One dollar each, please, for the Milk Fund.
If you don't pay quickly you'll get kissed again.
 A dollar--four dollars. Gosh! You wouldn't settle for some keys, would you?
Here, Jeff, I'll advance it for you.-- Fine introduction to the nation's capital!
 Here, I'll take a dozen of those things. Miss Paine.
 Thank you, Mister McGann, you have a very kind heart.
This is my daughter, Susan, and her friends--Senator Jefferson Smith.
How do you do? Meet the new Senator. I thought he'd be a Ranger with a big hat.
 What have you got there, Senator?
Pigeons--to carry messages back to Ma.
Just for the fun of it.--You see the one that makes it back home in the fastest time, I am going to enter in the nationals.
Wonderful!
There's romance in him.
Imagine having love notes delivered to you by a pigeon.
Joe!
Hello, Chick.
H'ya, Carl--h'ya, Bill!
Jeff--meet Mr. Cook and Mr. Griffith-- members of our State headquarters here.
Great pleasure, Senator! Yes *sir*. Great appointment! You'll do the old State proud!
Welcome, Senator. This wild life around here is a little different from what you're used to. They wear high heels! Hah! Hah!
Well, let's get started. Bill--you've made reservations at the hotel for the Senator and Chick--
All fixed. Same floor with you, Joe.
 How nice.
All right, we'll take Jeff with us--
I'm afraid we won't have room in the car, Father. Senator Smith can follow with Mr. McGann and the pigeons.
Sure.
Well, we *must* see a lot of you, Senator. Come, Father.
 Chick--
I've got 'im, Joe. Be right along.
Are you ready for him, Bill?
All set. Foley's rooms in the Senate office building--nice, big clean desk--lot of Senator stationery to write his little boys on--and Foley's secretary, Saunders, to make it look like the real thing--
Good. Are the newspaper men at the hotel?
Yup--Sweeney, Flood, Farrell--waiting for you--
Fine. The first thing to do is-- present Mr. Smith to the press--in the *right* way. Hurry him along, Bill.
How do you feel, champ?
All right, why?
Your name's spreading like wild-fire out here--you are the winterbook favorite to get on the National ticket.
Oh! Go away.
All right, Senator--let's get these bags and the livestock together--
 Look! There it is!
What? Who?
The Capitol Dome!
Yes, sir--big as life. Been there some time now.
Yes, sir.  All right, boys--let's go.
This way, Senator.
Say, we thought--maybe we ought to meet him in short pants--you know-- with hatchets.
What's he bringing pigeons for?
 What for? Why, suppose there's a storm--all lines are down--how you gonna get a message to Ma?
 Okay, Senator--right through here--
Where is he? Hey, Senator! What's the matter with that cookie? I *told* him to--. Come on, let's find him. Hey, Smith!
Positively not in the station! Gone!
I'll brain that guy! Well--call Paine-- call Saunders--
 Hey--*ranger*!
--Saunders! Smith hasn't showed up at his office there, has he?... No?... What do you mean 'the slip'?... What's so funny?
Nothing. Have you tried a butterfly net?
Lay off, Saunders. If your feet felt like mine... Listen--if he shows up there--Paine's waiting at the hotel with newspaper men--let him know right away--understand?
Sure. Sure. I'll hang a light in the steeple. One if by land--two if by sea!... Okay!  Diz--you won't believe it. Daniel Boone's *lost*!
No!
 Is this new guy Smith here yet? I want a little interview. How about it? Arrived yet--?
How do you *like* this! You don't suppose that ranger met up with some kids--and took 'em for a hike!
That--or he's out blazing trails. He'll show up.
Sure--sure. He must have a compass with him.
 --that dummy wandered off and got hit by a taxi! Bill--call the hospitals--hurry up--!
And while you're at it, get me a bed!
Let's send out a pigeon!
Blow a bugle!
--and there you have it, folks--the Capitol of the United States--the home of Congress--
Yes, *sir*! You are looking at the building where your law-makers have sat since the time of Washington--
Since the time of Adams--not Washington.
How's that, buddy?
I said--I mean--Washington didn't live to see it finished. Congress didn't move here from Philadelphia till eighteen hundred.
 Oh--you're *sure* of that now?
Yes. Washington laid the cornerstone though--wearing an apron for the ceremony that was embroidered by Madame Lafayette--
 Yes, *sir*.  Let's *go* Henry.
Now, on your right, folks--you see the Library of Congress--
--greatest library in the world. Five million books and two and a half-million maps, charts, and musical compositions--
You left out the most important thing! That's where you see the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence!
As the gentleman says--without anybody asking him--that's where you see those original, priceless documents-- the Constitution and Declaration of Independence.  Much obliged, my friend. You're a great help to me. Let's *go*, Henry!
 '--with malice toward none, with charity for all--with firmness in the right as God gives us to see the right...'
 '--that these dead shall not have died in vain--that this nation, under God, shall--'
'--have a new birth of freedom--and that Government of the people, by the people, for the people--shall not perish from the earth...'
Getting on to dinner, isn't it, pal?
 I give that Trail Blazer five more minutes to show up-- (turning on the desk lamp viciously) --*five more minutes*!
 Well--who d'you take this time--Paine, Bill, Carl--or McGann?
Hey--you're into me for a buck already. I say--McGann. Shoot the whole dollar.
Okay. For the dollar, I give you McGann *and* Bill and Carl. I got Paine.  Hello... Oh, yes.
No, not yet, Senator Paine--not hide nor hair of the man. You mean to say the boys haven't--?
Eight to five Little Boy Blue is plastered.
 Well, why don't they try the police-- get some blood hounds--or Indian guides--
As a last resort, maybe... Now wait, Saunders--you *can't* leave there! The one place he knows in this city-- is the Senate office--and you stay there and wait... it isn't *that* late--
 All right--then another half hour. Just *one* half hour, Senator. Goodbye.
Why don't I quit? Why don't I pick up and walk out of here?
Tell me why!
 Well, because you're doing all right at the minute.
When Foley died, why didn't I clear out? How many times, did you hear me say I was fed up on politics and--? But *no*--I let 'em talk me into staying. Secretary to a leader of little squirts. Why? Because I need the job and a new suit of clothes.
Would you settle for a husband?
 What's this, Diz?
That old standing offer from Diz Moore--Poet of Washington Correspondents.
 Huh?
You know--Mrs. Diz Moore.
Oh--that again. Yeah.
 I would cherish you--and stay sober.
Diz, you're a swell playmate--but--. Maybe if I saw you once with your hair combed, or something--or--no, no--I don't think even that would do it--
 Well, if you're sure it wouldn't--no use combing my hair for nothing.
No--don't do it. I'm sure. The truth is, Diz--there's no man I've seen yet or--must be something wrong with me. I've been feeling low for weeks.
You got worms.
What! Who?
You know--little worms--ambition.
Yeah. Should have seen me seven years ago--when I came to this town. *Now* what am I?--chambermaid to the Pied Piper of Jackson City; *Honorary* appointment! Scratch this thing an you'll find they wanted a dope here for two months.
 Yes!
Yes!
What is it?
Office of--Senator Smith?
*No*!
 The man downstairs said number--
No!
 *Wait* a minute! That wouldn't be-- *Daniel Boone*!
 What's your name?
J-Jefferson Smith.
Oh--oh! Come right in! Yes, indeed. Right this way--
Now, hold it, Senator. Stay right where you are. Don't go 'way--
 Hello--hello. Helen! Get the Shoreham-- Paine's apartment. Hurry, will you!
Is--is something the matter?
Oh, no--no! (Then with heavy sarcasm) My dear *Senator*--it may be customary out on the prairie to take French leave of people and not be heard of again for five hours--
Gee--I'm sorry about that, Miss--you *are* Miss Saunders, aren't you?
Yes, I'm Saunders--and this is Mr. Moore--a member of the press. Meet the *Senator*, Mr. Moore.
 Pleased to meet you, sir.
 How do you do, Senator? I see you made it.
Made it? Oh! Yes. Silly of me--you see, what happened was--
 Hello... Yes, Senator Paine. Yes. Right here. Just came in--under his own power... Yes--he's sober--that's the very next thing on the schedule... Yes, sir, I'll have him right over.
Gee, I'm sorry. You see, it wasn't until I was fairly well along in the bus that I realized--
Did you say--bus?
One of those sightseers--you know. You see, I--gosh, I've never been called absent-minded or... but there it was all of a sudden--looking right at me through one of the station doors--
There *what* was?
The Dome--the Capitol Dome--
--big as life--sparkling away there under the sun. I--I started walking toward it--and there was a bus outside-- and--well--I--I just naturally got aboard--
Most natural thing in the world!
I don't believe I've been so thrilled in my--oh, and that Lincoln Memorial! Gee! There he is--Mr. Lincoln--looking right at you as you come up the steps-- sitting there like he was waiting for someone to come along--
Well--he's got nothing on me.
Now, if you're ready, Senator, we can start for the hotel. I'll *see* that you get there.
 Yes--I think maybe you'd better.
 Whose statue is that?
I wouldn't know in the *day time*.
The Capitol Dome! Lighted up!
 You--uh--you better relax, Senator. You'll be plumb wore out.
Tell me, Miss Saunders--what time does the Senate--uh--what do they call it?
Convene?
Convene--that's it--yes. I got to pick up some of those parliamentary words. I imagine a fellow can get pretty lost in the Senate without 'em--
 With or without 'em.  Twelve--noon. The Senate convenes at twelve o'clock.
 Gosh--that'll be something! You know what I better do in the morning?
 No. What had you better--?
Go out to Mount Vernon. It'd be a sort of fine thing to do--see Washington's home just before walking into the Senate for the first time-- don't you think?
 Oh--a wonderful thing--yes. Get you right in the mood--yes--yes.
Oh--and *here* we are, Senator! Well, well, well! At last!
 After you. Do you mind?
 This is *it*, Senator!
No, gee--I couldn't stay here--
 You *couldn't*?
I mean--gosh--I wouldn't be comfortable in a--I--I haven't got clothes and things like that--and--I couldn't keep pigeons *there*--No--I-- I just--just wouldn't be--
Where to, Mister?
Where to, Miss Saunders?
 Where? Why, the wide open spaces!
 --all I know is, he refused to go into your hotel, Senator Paine--and not having my lasso with me, I didn't know how to *make* him.
What did you do? Where did he go?
Well--finally--after a substantial tour of the city, he saw a sort of boarding house, built nice and close to the ground. That's what he wanted-- and that's where you're to send his bags--Eleven B Street, Northeast. Oh-- and don't forget the pigeons!
And that's where you *left* him?
 ...Oh, he's perfectly all right. Going to stay in and write to Ma tonight... Ma. Ma. Don't you know Ma? And then he'll take his swig of Castoria and go to sleep... I'd rather not think about the morning right now, if you don't mind. Goodnight, Senator! 
Eleven B Street, Northeast. Take his bags and your own right over--and get yourself a room in the same place--
Listen, Joe--at least--after a day like this--I got one good bust coming before I start showing him monuments--
For heaven's sake--will someone please get those pigeons out of this apartment! They're smelling up the place something--
Pigeons!
I'm still asking myself--what is he-- animal, vegetable, or mineral? A Senator! A United States Senator! I thought I'd seen everything but-- why, he doesn't know what time it is, Diz! When I think of myself sitting around--playing straight for all that phoney, patriotic chatter-- *me*, carrying bibs for an infant with little flags in his fists--no, I can't take it, Diz--I'm through--I quit!
Sure--sure--wait a minute now--simmer down--
 Why--do you know what he's going to do before taking that Senate seat tomorrow? He's going to Mount Vernon-- to get into the mood--a *warm up*!
Who? Who? Your boss! A nut, huh? A nut! Wow! There's a *story* in this guy--! I smelled it!
 Go away, Nosey.
Saunders--it's meat and drink--lemme at 'im! Five minutes--! I'll make it right with you!
Will you go chase an ambulance!
Whadaya mean--*right*?
What do I *mean*, huh? Uh--*I'll* tell ya--World's Series--a pass! In a month it's worth fifteen bucks!
Well, well!
 Hey--you're not *talking* to this guy!
Whadaya say?
Nothin'! Beat it!
Look, Nosey--your pals would like to get in on this, wouldn't they?
Hey--I wanna *scoop*!
Well, that's out. Either it's *lots* of reporters and *lots* of tickets or--. Now will you go and call 'em before I change my mind about the whole thing!
Okay. See you here.
Kid--wait--what do you think you're going to do?
Get my *whole* fall outfit--and quit this job in style!
Now, you've got more sense than to put Nosey onto this guy--!
 Wait--wait. Let's see--watchdog McGann-- he's bound to move right in--get him out of the way first--  Pardon me, friend--I've got some telephoning to do--! 
 Mr. McGann?... This is Miss Lulu Love.
Who?
Oh, you don't know *me*, Mr. McGann-- but I've seen *you* in Washington before--and I think you're awfully cute. Mr. Griffith told me you got in and maybe you were a little lonely--
 Did, huh? Well, now, he's not wrong at all... Tonight? Sister, that's just what the doctor ordered... Whoa, wait a minute--
I'm not sure I can make that, Lulu. Hold on a second, will you? (He puts his hand over the mouthpiece, and calls out) Say--Senator! How're you fixed--I mean--uh--you're gonna stay in and write to Ma and the boys, like you said, huh?
 Uh-huh.
Not going out or anything?
No. Why?
 Atta boy. Right into bed for a nice long sleep. Me, too. (Then--softly, into phone) Okay, Toots! When and where?
 Now isn't that nice! Let's say the Mayflower lobby, Mr. McGann--in a half hour... What I *look* like? Well, I got red hair and--oh, that's all right--I know what *you* look like--you cute thing. Goodbye. 
Boy, oh, boy! Red Hair! McGann--you fell into something!
That's it. Right like that. Chin up a little, Senator--please. Hold it!
Tell us about yourself, Senator! Hear you got a Boy's Club back home! Any ideas? Going to make things hum in the Senate, huh?
 Hold on, fellows--I'm not used to more then one question at a time--
One moment, friends, let's give the Senator a break.  Now, where'd you say you studied law?
Well--I haven't needed much law so far--what I'd like to get first is a little common sense--
Swell!
What did he say?
 You don't need law--you need *common* sense!
What are you going to do while you're here, Senator?
Any special ax to grind?
Ax?
A pet idea--you know--pension bill-- save the buffalo--you've got *one* notion you think would be good for this country, haven't you?
Well--I have got *one* idea--
Ah! That's more like it! What?
Well--for a couple of years now--I-- I've thought it would be a wonderful thing to have a National Boys' Camp out in our State--
A camp! Well!
You see--if we could take the poor kids off the streets--out of cities-- a few months in the summer--learn something about Nature and American ideals--
Marvelous! And what would this camp set the Government back?
Oh--nothing--nothing. My idea is-- for the Government to lend us the money--and the boys'll pay it back-- sending in a penny or a nickel--no more than a dime--no, gosh--the Government's got enough on its hands without--
Great!  The Government's putting dough in too many places *now*!
 You don't say! Well, well!
What do you think of the girls in our town, Senator?
Well--I haven't seen many--oh--well-- Miss Susan Paine--she's about the prettiest girl I--I *ever* saw--
How about some more pictures, Senator?
Yeah! How about it? You're a nature lover. Do you handle any of that sign language?
Well--I can *manage*--
What about bird calls! Know any?
Well--a few--
Swell! Well! Come right ahead! Let 'em fly, Senator!
Well! About time, toots! Redhead or no readhead--keeping a guy waiting two hours is no-- (Looking her over, relaxing, and grabbing her arm) Good thing you're as cute as you are, or I'd--
 Wally!
Demands More Common Sense-- Less Law In Government
GOVERNMENT SPENDING No Money Left for Boy's Camp
Senator! Hey--ranger! (Clapping a hand to his forehead) Gone again!
His first 'whiff'!
Such pretty knees for a big boy!
Do I actually *see* this--?
Listen, Father! "Young Lochinvar smitten with Susan Paine"!
 You want to see me, Senator?
Yes. Good morning, Saunders. (Picking up the newspaper; genially) Have you--uh--any idea how this happened?
The ranger's notices? No idea at all.
 No?
No--I'm sorry. I merely saw him home. I'm not supposed to tuck him in and give him his bottle. That's McGann's job.
By the way, Mr. McGann just phoned-- in a high fever. Smith's gone again. Have you any idea where?
Yes. He went to Mount Vernon to give himself a patriotic address.
 Well--that's very fine.  Saunders, some person in your office says you've quit--
That's right.
Oh, now--that won't do--
Look, Senator--I wasn't given a brain just to tell a Boy Ranger what time it is. What do you need me for? Get somebody else--get a registered nurse--
You're the best nurse I can think of--
Nice *compliment*!
I meant it for one. I meant--Sam Foley couldn't get along without you-- and neither can I at the moment--
No?
You see--Governor Hopper made an appointment in this case that--well, Jeff isn't exactly fitted to the work, let's say. He's here to see monuments--and pass the time. That's important to--to my work--and everybody concerned. So, someone who can be trusted has to occupy him and keep him out of trouble--
And I'm an old hand at following instructions--
You're more than that. I've had example of the fact that wild horses couldn't pull confidential matter in these two offices out of you. That's why I tell you what I do--about Smith and this situation. So, you see--
Yeah--I see I'm right where I've been for seven years--
You deserve a lot better. And I'll tell you what we'll do. Stay and play nurse, as you say--and if certain things happen I'm taking everybody up with me, and you'll get one of the biggest jobs in Washington.
Yeah?  And what else?
What do you mean?
Well, when I first came to Washington, my eyes were big, blue question marks-- now they're big, green dollar marks--
I see. All right. You finish this job properly--and you get a handsome bonus besides--
And by *properly* I mean--stay away with Smith every minute--keep him away from anything that smacks of politics--see that there's no recurrence of things like these newspapers--
Saunders! That's it! We're here!
Here you are, Senator. Not a bad desk, either. Daniel Webster used to use it.
Daniel Webster? Sat here? Say--that man was a great orator.
Give you something to shoot at, Senator--if you figure on doing any talking.
Not me, sonny. I'm just going to sit around and listen.  What's this?
Calendar for the day. You'll find the Senate Manual in the drawer. Anything else you want, just snap for a page.
Where's the Majority Leader?
The Majority Leader? Right over there. And that's [           ] the Minority Leader. They're both pretty good in the clinches.
Uh-huh. And where's the Press Galery?
Right up there over the Vice- President's chair--the four in the front row represent the four big news services. You've met the press bunch, haven't you?
Oh, yes--they're fine people--regular people.
Look out for those fellows--they tell the truth about you--sometimes. That corner over there is reserved for guides and sightseers who come in for five minutes to rest their feet. That section over there is reserved for Senator's friends. The front row--the empty one--is for the President and White House guests-- see that old couple over there-- they've attended every session for the last twenty years. Over the clock back here is the Diplomatic section. They and the page boys are the only real class we have in this place. The rest are mostly people who come here like they go to the zoo--
Those busts up there--all around the wall--who are they, sonny?
All the ex-vice-Presidents. You can get ten-to-one around here if you think you can remember their names. The Vice-President presides over the Senate--you know that. It's how he earns his pay. Oh--over there, Senator-- on the east side of the Chair we still have the old snuff boxes with real snuff in them if you like snuff.
Thanks very much, sonny--
I'll take your hat into the cloak room.
Here--let me give you a Boy Ranger button.
Swell. Thanks very much.  Good luck, Senator. Keep your left up.
Hello, Jeff--sorry, I've been on a committee all morning. Got your credentials--when the Vice-President calls you, you go down that center aisle and I'll meet you there--he's about ready to come in now, Jeff. Good luck--
 The Senate will come to order!
Mr. President.
Senator Agnew.
I ask unanimous consent that the reading of the journal of the previous calendar day be dispensed with and the journal stand approved. 
 Is there objection?  The journal stands approved.
Mr. President...
Senator Brownell.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The clerk will call the roll.
Eighty Senators have answered to their names. A quorum is present.
Mr. President...
Senator Paine.
I present the credentials of Honorable Jefferson Smith who has just been appointed Senator by the Governor of my state.
The Senator-designate is present--
...and I ask that the oath of office be administered to him at this time.
If the Senator-designate will present himself at the desk, the oath will be administered.
Mr. President! I rise to a question of order!
The gentleman will state it.
 I seek to ascertain, Mr. President, if the gentleman about to be sworn in is fully aware of the responsibilities of his high office-- and that the members of this body strive to conduct themselves at all times--
--with dignity and sincerity.
I refer to his astounding and shameless performance for the newspapers this morning.
A *versatile* performance, I grant you--
Order in the chamber.
 --but one that brings his rank down to the level of a side-show entertainer--and reflects on the sincerity, if not the *sanity*, of the highest body of lawmakers in the land!  I seek to learn if this is the gentleman's conception of the nature of his office!
I don't understand, sir! I don't know what the gentleman--
 The Senator has no voice in this chamber until the oath of office has been administered!
Mr. President! I will answer the gentleman! My colleague was innocent in the matter referred to. He was completely misquoted. I *know* Jefferson Smith--and I will *vouch* for it--he has the greatest possible respect for his office and for these gentlemen.
Mr. President!
 The gentleman will raise his right hand and repeat after me the following oath--
"I do solemnly swear--that I will support and defend the Constitution of the United States--against all enemies, foreign and domestic--that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the same--that I take this obligation freely--without and mental reservation and purpose of evasion-- and that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties of the office on which I am about to enter. So help me God."
 "So help me God."
Senator, you can talk all you want to, now.
He's on a rampage. The streets aren't safe. I came up here to-- (Looking toward door suddenly) Oh-oh. Tarzan!
Whoa, now... Wait a minute... Take it easy, Senator... We don't go in for slugging around here... If you can behave yourself now...
 Meet Senator Smith, boys.
You act like a man with something on your mind--
What's the idea--charging in like that on the gentlemen of the Press--
 *Gentlemen*! Gentlemen are supposed to believe in something decent. Instead of twisting facts and making a joke of everything--why don't you tell the people the *truth* for a change?
The truth! Well, the man wants the truth! "What *is* truth?" asked so-and-so, and turned away!
That's what I said--the *truth*!
How'll you have it--dished out--or in a bottle?
Well, if that's what you want, Senator-- sit down--. We'll see what we can do.
There isn't a chance I'd find it here!
No?
Why--*truth* is the *business* of a few of us correspondents, Senator--
Leaving out the Noseys, of course--
Yes? And the people of this country pick up their papers--and what do they read?
Well--*this morning* they read that an incompetent clown arrived in Washington parading like a member of the Senate--
Why, you--!
Whoa! Hold it! Pipe down! Come on, now--that's enough of that.
 If you thought as much of being honest-- as you do of being smart--!
Honest! Why, we're the only ones who can *afford* to be honest about what *we* tell the voters. We don't have to be re-elected, like politicians--
Hear! Hear!
For instance, we tell 'em when the phonies, crackpots and hillbillies come here to make their laws--
And if it's the *truth* you want-- what are *you* doing in the Senate?
What do *you* know about laws--and making laws--and what the people need?
 I--I don't *pretend* to know!
Then what are you doing in the Senate?
What's he *doing*? Why--*honorary* appointment!
Sure! *I* see! When the country needs men up there who *know* and have courage--like it never did before-- he's just going to decorate a chair and get himself *honored*--!
Oh, but he'll *vote*! Sure. Like his colleague tells him--
Yes, *sir*--like a Christmas tiger. He'll nod his head and vote 'yes'. You're not a Senator! You're an honorary *stooge*! And should be showed up!
Have a drink, Senator!
 Good day--gentlemen.
I mean, sir--if I'm going to stay in the Senate--I ought to know what I'm doing--at least, I ought to try to study the Bills that are coming up--
The *Bills*? Jeff--let me advise you-- as your father would--politics is a business--sometimes a cruel business. In your time here, you couldn't even start on those Bills. They're put together by legal minds--after a long study. Why, after twenty years, I can't understand half of them myself. No, really, Jeff--in your own interests--
 Well, then--I--I don't feel I can stay, sir.
Jeff, look--didn't you say something to the papers about wanting to create a National Boys' camp? Were you in earnest about that?
Yes, I was--
Well, why not do it? There's a job for you. Get a Bill started to accomplish it--present it to Congress-- it would be a great experience--
Senator Paine, if I could do just that one thing while I'm here, I-- I'd feel that I--
What's to stop you? Saunders will help you with it--
 I will, sir! I will!  I--I don't know how to thank you. I knew, if any man could help me--
Nonsense, Jeff.
Thank you, sir. Thank you for your time.
Here--where are you running off to?
Well, I'm sort of anxious to get back to the office--
Father--oh.
Jefferson dropped in for a minute, Susan.
 How nice. How do you do, Senator?
 I--I apologize for looking like this-- I--I have to be going now--
How are the pigeons?
Fine--they're fine.  Oh, Miss Paine, I--I want to apologize-- what the papers said I said about you--that wasn't true. I--I would never say a thing like that.
 Did you hear, Father? He didn't mean it when he said I was beautiful.
Oh--you are!
Then you *did* say it.
No--I mean--yes--that is--
Well, goodbye, sir--and thank you again. (Starting to back toward the foyer as he speaks to Susan) Well--it--it was nice seeing you, Miss Paine--
Goodnight, Senator--
Goo-goodnight, Miss Paine.  Goodnight, sir--goodnight.
Gosh! Darn!
 I'm sorry! Gee! I hope--
That's all right, my boy--don't bother--
Gosh! (Straightens lamp on table) Well--looks good as new. If there *is* any damage, I'll--
 Good as new! It's quite all right--
Well--goodnight.
Goodnight, Jeff.
Goodnight, Miss Paine.
*Goodnight*!
 Well, at the expense of some of the furniture, Susan--you've made another conquest.
What! Not Ol' Honest Abe!
And Honest Abe's ideals. A rare man-- these days.
Well! Hear anything? Any sign of him?
How'd you like a punch in the nose?
 What! Who?
That's what he's been doing since last heard from.
Whaddaya mean! What did *I* have to do with it? I don't blame the guy. (Sinking into chair, exhausted) Wow! Twenty-four hours in this town and nothing but dog-fights! And things aren't bad enough--last night I have to get a run-around from some wise dame--
 My, my--you sho' are pahwerfully upset, Mister McGann--but you' awfully cute.
Yeah? Well, when I get my hands on a red-headed doll with a southern lingo, I'll--
 You should hear our Ranger Band rattle that off--if you want to *hear* something! Good evening, Miss Saunders. Good evening Mister McGann.
 H'ya, Senator. I--I've sorta been looking for you--
You have?  Will you come in a minute, Miss Saunders.
Uh--Senator--I thought you and me might go out to dinner together--and grab off a few monuments.
Oh, I couldn't tonight. Thanks a lot.
Go ahead--punch.
Punch?
I had a lot to do with that little press conference last night--
 Well, then, I--I *thank* you, Miss Saunders! Nothing better could have happened--. Yes *sir*, Miss Saunders, we're going right ahead with it!
We're going right ahead with--*what*?
Why, the Bill--the Bill--to make a National Boys' Camp...
One moment, Senator. Do I understand you're going to present a *Bill*?
Sure! A Bill. Senator Paine and I decided it was the one way in the world I could make myself--
Pardon me. Senator Paine decided this *with* you?
Yes. Sure. It was his idea. *I* should have been the one to think of it--
My dear Senator, have you the faintest idea of what it takes to get a Bill passed?
I know--but you--you're going to help.
If I were *triplets*, I couldn't--. Look, Senator--let me give you a rough idea. A member has a Bill in mind--like you--a camp. Right?
Right.
Fine. Now, what does he do? He's got to sit down first and write it up. The where, when, why, how--and everything else. That takes time--
Oh, but this one is so simple.
I see. *This* one is so simple--
And with your help--
Oh, yes. And *I'm* helping. Simple-- and I'm helping. So we knock this off in record-breaking time of--let's say three or four days--
Oh, just a day--
A *day*!
Tonight.
Tonight. (Controlling herself in a quiet burn) Look--uh--I don't want to seem to be complaining, Senator--but in all civilized countries, there's an institution called *dinner*--!
 Oh--dinner. Yes. Well, I'm hungry, too. I thought--maybe--we could have something brought in--you know, like big executives who eat off trays. You see, we've got to light into this and get it going--
Uh-huh. Well, dinner comes in on trays. We're executives. And we light into this. It is dawn. Your Bill is ready. You go over there and introduce it--
How?
You get to your feet in the Senate and present it. Then you take the Bill and put it in a little box-- like a letter box--on the side of the rostrum. Just hold it between thumb and forefinger and drop it in. Clerks read it and refer it to the right committee--
Committee, huh?
Committee.
Why?
That's how Congress--or any large body--is run. All work has to be done by committee.
Why?
Look--committees--small groups of Senators--have to sift a Bill down-- look into it--study it--and report to the whole Senate. You can't take a Bill no one knows anything about and discuss it among ninety-six men. Where would you get?
Yes, I see that.
Good. Where are we?
Some committee's got it.
Yes. They give it to a *sub*- committee, where they really give it a going over--hold hearings--call in people and ask questions--then report back to the bigger committee--where it's considered some more, changed, amended, or whatever. Days are going by, Senator. Days--weeks. Finally, they think it's quite a Bill. It goes over to the House of Representatives for debate and a vote. *But* it's got to wait its turn on the calendar--
Calendar?
That's the order of business. Your Bill has to stand *way* back there in line unless the Steering Committee decides it is important enough to be--
What's that?
What?
The Steering Committee.
 Do you really think we're getting anywhere.
Yes. Sure. What's a Steering Committee?
A committee of the majority party leaders. They decide when a Bill is important enough to be moved up toward the head of the list--
*This* is.
Pardon me--*this* is. Where are we now?
We're over in the House.
Yes. House. More amendments--more changes--and the Bill goes back to the Senate--and *waits its turn on the calendar again*. The Senate doesn't like what the house did to the Bill. They make more changes. The House doesn't like *those* changes. Stymie. So they appoint men from each house to go into a huddle called a conference and battle it out. Besides that, all the lobbyists interested give cocktail parties for and against--government departments get in their two cents' worth--cabinet members--budget bureaus--embassies. Finally, if the Bill is alive after all this vivisection, it comes to a vote. Yes, sir--the big day finally arrives. And--nine times out of ten, they vote it down.  Are you catching on, Senator?
Yes. Shall we start on it right now-- or order dinner first?
 Pardon?
I said--shall we get started *now* or--
 Yes--sure. Why not?  You don't mind if I take the time to get a pencil?
 No! Go right ahead, Miss Saunders.
Thanks very much.
And a *lot* of paper!
I wouldn't wait if I were you.
What do you mean? What's going on?
The Head Man's writing a Bill.
A Bill! Not *him*!
 What does he want to--? What's *he* doing writing a Bill?
EMPTY_LINE
Do you mind, Senator? I'd like a picture.
 Joe--drop everything and come with me!
What's the matter?
 Do you mind?
 Smith--do you know what he's doing?-- writing Bills!
Yes, I know. I told him to.  Pardon me, Charles. We're late to an Embassy dinner--
Joe! You *told* him to!
Yes--a camp bill that will never get beyond a first reading. So calm down, Chick--and--goodnight.
Joe! Jim said--*monuments*!
 --that's the main idea, Miss Saunders. The United States Government isn't going to buy or build this camp-- just lend us the money. You've made a note of that, huh?
Yes, Senator--*twice*.
 Uh--have you? (Running his hand through his hair) Did you ever have so much to say about something--you couldn't say it?
 Try sitting down.
I did--and--and I got right up.
Now, let's get down to particulars. How big is this thing? Where is it to be? How many boys will it take care of? If they're going to buy it-- how do they make their contributions? Your Bill has to have all that in it--
And something else, too, Miss Saunders-- the spirit of it--the idea--the--
That's what's got to be in it.
 That.
 On paper?
 I want to make that come to life-- yes, and lighted up like that, too-- for every boy in the land. Boys forget what their country means--just reading "land of the free" in history books. And they get to be men--and forget even more. Liberty is too precious to get buried in books, Miss Saunders. Men ought to hold it up in front of them--every day of their lives and say: "I am free--to think--to speak. My ancestors couldn't. I can. My children will."
The boys ought to grow up *remembering* that.
Well--gosh--that--that isn't "particulars," is it?
But you've just taken care of the spirit all right.
Well, anyway, it's *something* like that--  And it *is* important. That--that Steering Committee has *got* to see it that way. And I'm sure Senator Paine will do all he can--  He's a fine man, Miss Saunders, isn't he? He knew my father, you know.
He did?
We need a lot like him--his kind of character--ideals.
 Uh--getting back to this, Senator--
Yes, yes--
Now, this camp is going to be out in your state, of course--
 About two hundred of the most beautiful acres that ever were! Mountains, prairie land, trees, streams! A paradise for boys who live in stuffy cities--  You don't know that country out there, do you, Miss Saunders?
No.
I've been over every foot of it. You couldn't have any idea. You'd have to see for yourself--  --the prairies--the wind leaning on the tall grass--
--lazy streams down in the meadows-- and angry little midgets of water up in the mountains-- (again seen, together with SAUNDERS) --cattle moving down a slope against the sun--camp-fires--snowdrifts...  Everybody ought to have *some* of that--*some* time in his life. My father taught me to see those things. He grew up with our state--an' he used to say to me, "Son, don't miss the wonders that surround you. Every tree, every sunset, every ant-hill and star is filled with the wonders of nature." He used to say, "Haven't you ever noticed how grateful you are to see daylight again after going through a dark tunnel?" "Well," he'd say, "open your eyes and always see life around you as if you'd just come out of a long tunnel."  Where did *you* come from. Miss Saunders?
 Well--I guess I've been in that tunnel all my life.
You mean--here?
Baltimore. Pure city-dweller.
But you've had beautiful country all around you. You've just had to life up your eyes!
City-dwellers never do that--for fear of what might drop *in* 'em.
 Have you always had to--work?
Since sixteen or so.
I take it your--your parents couldn't-- uh--
No, they couldn't. Father was a doctor. The kind who placed ethics above collections. That speaks well for Father but it always left us kind of--  Could we get on with this, Senator?
It hasn't been easy, has it?
No complaints.
But--I mean--for a woman--And--you've done awfully well--
Have I?
I never met anyone more--more intelligent--or capable. I--I don't know where I'd be on this bill of mine without your help--
I don't see where we are *with* it.
 No! Gosh! I better get moving here, Miss Saunders--  Everybody else calls you just plain "Saunders." Why can't I?
Go right ahead.
Saunders. That's better.  Good morning, Saunders. Hello, Saunders. How's the bill coming, Saunders--?
 Terrible, thank you.
Yeah. Yeah. Well, anyway, we've got "Saunders" settled. Maybe that was my trouble all along.  YEs, *sir*. I'm all ready to go now--  What's your *first* name?
Why?
Well--nobody calls you anything but Saunders.
I also answer to whistles.
You--you've *got* a first name, haven't you?
Look--I think we ought to skip it.
All right. Sure. Just curious. The picture popped into my mind all of a sudden of a pump without a handle-- or something--
Well, if it's all the same to you--
 I know. It's--Violet.
It *is* not!
Abigail.
No!
Letitia.
No!
Lena.
 No! Stop it!
I've got more. You better tell me.
You win. It's--Clarissa.
 Clarissa. Oh. Uh-huh.  Well, Saunders--let's go--
Now, *Susan*--that's really a *pretty* name--
 Susan! Susan Paine--that's beautiful--
And a beautiful woman, too--don't you think?
Yes. The most beautiful I think I ever--gee-- (Catching himself-- leaping into action) Say--we're *never* going to finish this thing! Now, here we go, Saunders. I'm going to talk faster'n you can write--
The location of the camp. About two hundred acres situated in Ambrose County--Terry Canyon--
--running about a quarter of a mile on either side of Willet Creek--
 On either side of--*what*?
 Uh--Willet Creek. It's just a little stream--
In Terry Canyon?
You--don't know it, do you?
 No--
You couldn't. You've never been out there, you said.
 No, I haven't. I guess I thought the name was familiar.  By the way, you discussed with Senator Paine where the camp was to be situated and everything?
Well--no. I didn't. Why?
Nothing. I just wondered. No *reason* to take it up with him.  "--about a quarter of a mile on either side of Willet Creek--"
 Yeah. This land to be bought by contributions from the boys. You have that. Money to be--
--the chair lays before the Senate a communication from the Secretary of State, in response to Senate resolution 343.
Sit tight, Diz. The show commences in just a minute.
What show? Would you mind telling me what's coming off here?
Certainly. (Pointing down to the floor) Now there's the principal actor in our little play.
 Don Quixote--with bill.
Ah. One of the supporting characters.
Who?
That gorilla in Man's clothing-- McGann.
Oh, you mean--Puss in Boots.
Yes. Mostly "Puss." (Pointing to the floor again) Oh, the *other* prominent character in the play.
The Silver Knight. Soul of Honor--on a tight-rope.
What do I play?
You play--left field.
Frankly, kid--are you goofy?
Diz--Don Quixote with bill is going to get to his feet in a minute and speak two important words--*Willet Creek*. When that happens--if my hunch is right--the Silver Knight will fall off his tightrope and Puss will jump out of his boots.
Mr. President--I ask that the communication be referred to Committee on Foreign Relations and printed.
It is so ordered.  Introduction of bills--
--and joint resolutions.
 Mr. President!
 The chair recognizes the rather strong- lunged junior Senator, Mr. Smith.
 I--I'm sorry, sir. I--I have a bill--
You may speak a little louder, Senator, but not too loud.
I have a bill to propose, sir.
Order, gentlemen. Our junior Senator is about to make a speech. You may proceed, Senator.
 "Be it enacted by the Senate and the House of Representatives that there be appointed as a loan--"
"--a sum sufficient to create a National Boys' Camp--"
 "--to be paid back to the United States Treasury by contributions from the boys of America. This Camp to be situated on the land at and adjacent to the head waters of the stream known as Willet Creek in Terry Canyon--
"--for the purpose of bringing greater education, mutual understanding--"
"--and the healthful life to the boys of this great and beautiful land!"
Our young Senator will make a good orator when his voice stops changing.
Did you like the first act?
Yeah. What about the second act?
That's taking place outside now.
 Did I hear right? Did he say *Willet Creek*?
Let's get away from here. (He starts to pull McGann along)
That's dynamite, Joe!
--amazing coincidence! Of all places in the world--to choose Willet Creek for his boys' camp!
Joe--I'm getting leery of this guy. We keep calling him dumb--and he keeps winding up in our hair! I'm telling you--when he finds out there's a dam going up where he wants his camp, he's gonna start asking questions six ways from Sunday--
Be quiet, Chick--I'm trying to think--  This Deficiency Bill is going to be read in the Senate tomorrow.
Tomorrow! Joe--he'll hear the section on Willet Dam. He can't be there!
I know that.
Listen--tomorrow I take him to see monuments--if I have to hit him over the head with a couple!
That won't work, Chick. This boy's honest, not stupid.
Susan!
My daughter isn't here to carry out assignments like that for *anybody*.
Well, then--this is too much for *my* lame brain. I'm calling Jim Taylor.
Jim's methods won't do in Washington.
Joe--listen--all Susan has to do is turn those big eyes on him--he'll fall all over himself--just keep him out of there *one afternoon*--while they read that bill--
Can I see you, Senator--? I'm from Jackson City-- Senator, just one minute of your time-- I'm from the old home state, Senator--
Whoa! Here--here--just a minute! Keep your seats.  This way, Senator--
 What do they--? Who are all those--?
One of the plagues on members of Congress--office-seekers, cranks, people with pet bills. Get my son into West Point--or *outta* West Point. I've got a scheme to put people to work. How do I get rid of cockroaches? Some woman's composed a hymn to replace the Star Spangled Banner. Want to hear it?
 No--not today! Boy, I feel like a house afire! Saunders--how did I do?
Great.
I--I don't know how I got it out. My heart was right up here all the time--  I wonder what Senator Paine thought of it?
Must have been tickled pink.
Gee--I hope so. What's all this?
Contributions from boys who read about your camp.
Already? All these letters?
Oh, those are only local. Wait'll they start pouring in from all over the country.
Do you mean all--look--look we'd better open them up--see what they say here--look at the money--what does it say--"Dear Senator Smith, I would like to come to your boy's camp and I shine shoes at the station and here's nine cents." Oh, isn't that wonderful. Look and he signs it. "Yours truly, Stinky Moore." Isn't that marvelous? (Breaking off--looking in desk drawer) Say--have I got some paper here?
Second drawer.
Good! I'm going to be pretty busy tonight--
Not another bill?
No! Letters. I've got to write to the Rangers and Ma--and--I'm bustin' with news! Why, I've introduced a bill! Me--Jeff Smith. I got up and talked in the Senate! (He sits down excitedly at his desk)
Do you want to dictate them?
The letters? Gosh--no. I couldn't talk letters. I've gotta scratch 'em out. And say--I'm going to tell Ma all about you. If I tell it right-- the first thing you know you're going to get the best jar of preserves you ever tasted.
 Thanks a lot.
Oh--*Saunders*!
I--I--gee whiz--I didn't thank you!
Don't mention it--
I mean it. I--without you, I could't've--
Hello.  Who? Who?
 Susan Paine.
 How do you do?... Yes, go ahead.
I'm sorry to bother you, Saunders-- but you've got to help me. I'm elected to snatch Mr. Jefferson Smith from the Senate tomorrow--
You're--what?
There's trouble brewing some place and I'm to turn on my glamour for him. I've got to take him out. You sympathize, don't you, Saunders?
 Awkward, isn't it?
Here's what you've got to do for me. Take him out and buy him a suit of clothes that fits--and a hat. A manicure and haircut wouldn't do any harm--and if you can get in a little practice with a fork and a teacup--. As one woman to another, Saunders-- that is, I hate to ask you to do it, but--
 But as one woman to another, of course.
Thanks, Saunders. And now--is--uh-- young Lochinvar around?
Yes--right here. Just a second-- (Extending phone to Jeff) Miss Paine.
 Did you hear that?--Escort Susan Paine--reception for a princess! Imagine her calling me--asking *me*--
Get your hat, Senator. We've got a lot to do between now and tomorrow--
Wow!
 I--I'm awfully glad to be--that is, it was nice of you to-- (Giving up, he makes an attempt at conversation) Uh--how's your father?
Splendid.
Uh--that's good. And--uh--you?
I'm splendid, too.
That's--that's splendid.
And how's your bill, Senator?
Oh, the bill. Oh--splendid--I mean-- (With a disarming smile) I--I just can't seem to talk in this suit.  I'll tell you a secret. It's brand new.
Well! You don't say!
 It's just as well to tell you--because if we're going to get off on the right foot--I mean--in case I act sort of strange--it's the suit.
 Well--I--
 Funnier things have happened. Ma says when Pa was courting her, he acted strange for months. Didn't make sense--or anything. And one day, on a hunch, Ma said: "Clayton, so help me, you talk like a man whose collar is too tight to bear." "Not the collar, Mary," he said, "my shoes." "Well, for land's sake," Ma said, "Take the pesky things off!" Which Pa did, an' they were engaged within a week.
You're not going to take your *suit* off!
 No! No! Gosh. See, there you are! I'm not making sense!
Well--I stuck my foot in it again at the President's press conference today--  How come so early? Get the day off?
They decoyed the little General off to a tea party to keep him out of the Senate.
Well, well--  Yeah--I got smart and thought I'd slip one over on the old man in the press meeting. I said, "Mr. President, about the monopoly investigation--" And he jumps right in and says, "Diz, if you were sitting in my chair, would you answer the question you're about to ask?" He had me.
 I don't mind *who* gets licked in a *fair* fight, Diz. It's these clouts below the belt I can't take. Sicking that horrible dame on him--when he's goofy about her--
What dame?
Paine.
Oh--yeah--
He isn't going to hurt enough as it is. *She* has to twist a knife in him, too--the regal jackass! "I'll turn my glamour on him," she says--
Forget it, kid. What's it *to* you?
Nothing. I'm just saying--I might be able to lie, cheat, steal--and I'd still tear into a guy I saw kicking a dog. Not that *he* is, by a long shot--
Okay. So what? Stop worrying. I've told you--the dopes are gonna inherit the earth anyway--
I've wondered, Diz--maybe this Don Quixote's got the jump on all of us. I've wondered--maybe it's a curse to go through life wised up like you and me--
Now, look, kid--if we're gonna wonder, let's go down and do it over a hunk of steak.  Come on, snap out of it. Diz Moore-- that rarest of companions--is here at your side.  To genteel crime, kid.
 And to Don Quixote!
--and the guy sees a drunk, lookin' around under the street lamp, see-- and he says--whatsa matter?--lose somethin'? Yeah--my cigarette case-- dropped it in the next block.  Next block!--the guy says to the drunk--whaddaya lookin' for it here for?... 'Cause there's more light here, the drunk says--
Why do I always laugh at that?
"There's more light here," he says--
Drunks are funny--
Yeah. Funny--
 Yeah.
Yeah. Some of my best friends are funny.
Every time I think of it, I get a laugh, Diz.
My friends?
Old Don Quixote--man of the people Smith--
 Waiter!
--followin' Miss Susan Fass-Pass around--his little heart poundin' away--the sound of angels' wings in his ears.
Now, you've gone and let Don Quixote in here again. I told you to keep him out!
Shut up, Diz.
 Mind, now! Keep Don Quixote out of here!
And I got him all dressed up, too-- to go way up in a balloon--so they can drop him a long way--make sure they break his heart. Why, not all the Boy Rangers in the world, working night shifts, 'll be able to put Humpty-Dumpty together again--
Now--how'd Humpty-Dumpty get in here?
Do you know how I felt, Diz?
No. How'd you feel? Quick.
Like a mother sending her kid off to school for the first time--watchin' the little fella toddling off--in his best bib and tucker--and you sink in the middle--hoping he can stand up to the other kids--won't get his feeling hurt--and--if you could only spare him the knocks he's gotta take--  Say--who started this?
*I'm* just waiting for a street car--
Well--cut it out. See? Who *cares* anyway?
I apologize.
*All right*, then. After all, what's it to me? So they *drop* him out of a balloon. All I care is--I don't want to be around. See? Squeamish. See? That's what I am. No, sir. I don't have to take it. Won't be a party to no murder. I'm gonna quit. I'm through.
Again? Good idea.
Diz--
Yeah.
How about getting married?
 Good idea. When?
Any time.
Tonight?
Okay. You don't mind?
I'll cherish ya.
You--you've been a good egg, Diz. Maybe we could clear out of this town--get to feel like *people*--get the habit of lifting up our eyes-- live like we just got out of a tunnel.
 Tunnel?
You've never seen prairie grass with the wind leaning on it, have you, Diz?
Is the wind tired out there?
Or angry little mountain streams-- and cattle moving against the sun. You haven't seen any of that, have you, Diz?
Have *you*?
No.
Do we *have* to?
EMPTY_LINE
Well, let's get going.
Where?
We're gonna get married.
 Yeah--that's right. Diz--
What?
I case you don't know--I want to give ya a chance to back out if you don't like it--
What?
My first name's--Clarissa.
Yeah, I know. That's okay.
Don't say "okay," Diz. Say you think it's beautiful.
Okay--I mean--
You don't know a name off-hand you like better, do you, Diz?
 No--not offhand--
Nothing like--uh--Susan--or anything like that, huh?
Susan? Nah!
 I won't take it! See? I won't be party to murder. See? Steering a poor dope up blind alleys for that grafting Taylor mob is low enough. But helping that dame cut him up in little pieces besides--nobody's gonna make me do that. No, sir.
You said it!
I'm getting out of there. Right now, Diz. Right now. Bonus or no bonus. I'm gonna clear outa that office-- everything I own--my extra hat-- everything--
Hey! We're gettin' married--!
 Right now--everything I own--!
 Saunders?
Saunders!
Whadaya want?
Saunders--I looked for you--
Yeah? What for?
I know. Don't tell me. It was a wonderful party. Your suit went over big. And she looked beautiful, and she gave her hand when you left her-- and said--"Thank you, Mr. Smith." Oh, but it was the way she *said* it. You like to fell through the floor--Horseradish!
 Saunders--!
And you're writing Ma all about it. And your pigeons will carry the message of love. And the first thing you know--Susan Paine'll get the best jar of preserves she ever tasted!
Are you drunk?
Certainly. You didn't think I was a lady, did you? You don't think a *lady* would be working for this outfit. Even *I* can't take it anymore. I quit. Can't take a lot of things. *You*. I can't watch a simple guy like you-- (Breaking off--in a burst) Why don't you go back home? Take my advice. Go on back to your prairies-- roust your rangers around--tell your little streams about your camp and the land of the free! This isn't any place for you. You're half-way decent. You don't belong here. Go home. That's all I'll tell you. That's all. I owe my conscience that much. I owe it a lot more, but-- (Suddenly--indicating Diz) Meet the man I'm going to marry!
Tha's me.
Well--why don't you say something-- what are you standing there for--? (Then--on a wild impulse) Wait a minute!
Why don't I get out of this place clean? (Lifting a printed bill out) Want to be a Senator, huh? Gonna build a camp on Willet Creek! See this? Appropriations Bill. A little section--number forty. A *dam's* going up where you think you're gonna have a camp. Ever hear of it? No. They read all about it in the Senate today--but you weren't supposed to hear it. That's why that ritzy dame took you in tow. That's why they sent you here in the first place-- because you wouldn't know a dam from a bathtub! (Flinging it on a desk) Go ahead--*try* to build your camp-- *try* to mess up Mr. Taylor's little graft! Go ahead--be a Senator! But if you *can't* be--and you can't in nine million years--go on home--don't hang around here making people feel sorry for you! Come on, Diz.
Well--let's dig up the preacher, kid.
 Huh?
You know, we're getting married.
 Take me home, Diz.
 --I may not know much about a lot of things, sir--but I know that Willet Creek country like a book--and--and I tell you, Senator Paine--there's something *wrong* about this dam-- why, there isn't a foot of water in that creek--it's dry four months out of the--
Jeff--listen--this was all taken up in the State Legislature and approved-- they're going to divert waters from up above--
But--there are a hundred other places in the state that *need* the water. Besides--I talked to Kenneth Allen, who owns some of that land--and he didn't say anything about a dam. No-- I'm sure, sir--there's something wrong--and I--I won't vote on this thing until I get a lot of questions answered--
 Jeff! You're trying to understand in a moment everything about a project that took two years to set up--the reasons--the benefits--
Yes--the *benefits*! What's a man called Taylor got to do with this?
He's a newspaper publisher I know-- and--
What makes you think he's got *anything* to do with it?
Saunders said--this whole thing was *his* idea to get graft--!
 One minute, Jeff!
You're accusing *me* of helping to frame a bill for the benefit of *one* individual--
--of helping to put through a scheme for *graft*!
 Long distance. Get me James Taylor-- Jackson City--Main 3100--
Boy Ranger! The answer to a prayer. Manna from heaven! Didn't know the time of day--!
Will you please tell me *exactly* what he's done?
Yes! He's about to blow the whole machine to smithereens--and *you with it*, Mr. Governor!
Me! Jim--how--?
You couldn't understand! Listen, Ten Thumbs, I'll be on my way to Washington in half an hour. Whatever happens, I'm all ready for this Ranger of yours. Never mind how. You'll get your instructions from Ken Allen here. It isn't anything you have to do. I wouldn't trust you to lick a stamp. Allen'll do it himself. You just use your *high office* to help him get it done. Understand?
Y-yes, Jim.
I doubt it! Come on, Ken.
Jim--wait--will you please tell me--
 Blow *me* to smithereens! My record is *clean*!
 --I've used every argument in the world to try to turn him off. He just keeps coming back to the dam-- and what he knows--
Saunders! I'd like to tie her in a sack and drop her from the Brooklyn Bridge--
 --now he wants to talk to the Congressmen from the Willet Creek districts--he's run their names down--
That's him. Let him in.
 Wait a minute--Jim--you didn't ask *Smith* over here!
What do you think?
Jim, you can't come here and pull that steamroller stuff. Your methods won't do here. This boy is a Senator, however it happened, he's a Senator. This is Washington.
Steamroller stuff, Joe? My methods don't go in Washington? They've done pretty well by now, haven't they?
Oh, Jim, that's beside the point. This boy's different. He's honest and beside he thinks the world of me. We can't do this to him.
Well, what do you want me to do? Stand around like you chump and let that drooling infant wrap that Willet Creek Dam appropriation around my neck. Either he falls in line with us and behaves himself or I'll break him so wide open they'll never be able to find the pieces.
Jim, I won't stand for it.
You won't stand for it?
I don't want any part of crucifying this boy.
Oh, I see. Out steamroller methods are getting too hard to your sensitive soul, is that it, Joe? The Silver Knight is getting to big for us. My methods have been all right for the past twenty years, Joe, since I picked you out of a fly-specked hole in the wall and blew you up to look like a Senator, and now you can't stand it. Well, maybe you won't have to stand it, Joe. Maybe we can fix it so you and your Boy Ranger can go home together.
Jim, you don't have to--
Oh, it's all right--it's all right. It seems a shame, though, to part company like this after all these years, especially now with a national convention coming up. Joe, I've put everything I have behind you. And so did all of our friends, but I guess we'll survive. We'll just have to find somebody else that's got a little more sense, that's all. In the meantime, you explain to Mr. Smith about Willet Dam. It's your bill-- it's your reputation, and if he can't find enough facts to break you with, you just send him to me and I'll give him a couple of good ones. I'm taking the next plane home.
Jim, it's just that I like the kid-- I don't want to see you get too rough on him.
I'm glad to see you come to your senses. You had me scared there for a minute, thought.  Let him in.
Come in.
Jeff--this is Mr. Taylor.
 Glad to know you, Senator. Meet the boys--
 Congressmen, Radner, Schultz, Diggs--
I happened to be passing through, Senator. I wanted to meet you. Thanks for coming. Sit down.
Well. I hear you've been right on your toes since you got here. Pitching right in. Lots of people took you for dumb--but they're wrong. You're smart. In fact, *I* think you're smart enough to understand a situation when it's explained to you--
Like what, Mr. Taylor?
Well now--just to take an example-- putting up a dam--on Willet Creek. As I look at it--that dam's going to do the people of our state a lot of good--
Yes, so I was told, Mr. Taylor, but--
 But you have some objections here and there. And maybe right, for all I know. But the point is--there's no sense stopping the whole works now-- specially after some men have worked hard for a long time to put this through--
What is your interest in this, Mr. Taylor?
Mine? Why--naturally--whatever benefits the state is mighty important to me--owning a lot of its industry-- newspapers and other odds and ends. And if I thought you had the welfare of the state at heart, like myself-- for instance, if you were to turn around and help a project like this along instead of standing in the way-- why, I'd say you were a man to watch. For a fellow your age, you'd be in a spot to make a great start in life. If you liked business--you could pick any job in the state and go right to the top. Or politics. If you like being a Senator. No reason why you couldn't come back to that Senate for the rest of your life.
Jim!
 Just a minute, Joe!
 You can't say *that* to--
*I* know what I'm doing! I'll say what I *want*!
Sit down, Smith. I'm not through.
As I was saying--the state *needs* men like you--*smart* men.  Now, these boys are. And they've been doing all right. They don't worry about being re-elected--or anything else. They take my advice-- and they'll go a lot farther yet. So, you see, you've got a pretty important question to settle for yourself, Smith. But you're smart. You can decide that right now, can't you?
 Can't you?
 You mean--you tell these men--and Senator Paine what to do?
Yes! I've told Senator Paine for twenty years--
You're a liar!
Smith! (Stopping him at the door) You heard what I said. And I've *got* to have your answer--*now*!  Listen. To put it another way--if you've got any fool notion of bucking this thing--if you open your mouth when that bill is read in the Senate tomorrow--if you so much as lift a finger to stop it--you're through-- like no man *ever* was! I'm all ready for you. Understand? I give you my word on that. You're finished!
I give you my word!
 Jeff--I want to talk to you--sit down--
Listen, Jeff--you--you don't understand these things--you mustn't condemn me for my part in this without-- you've had no experience--you see things as black or white--and a man as angel or devil. That's the young idealist in you. And that isn't how the world runs, Jeff--certainly not Government and politics. It's a question of give and take--you have to play the rules--compromise--you have to leave your ideals outside the door, with your rubbers. I feel I'm the right man for the Senate. And there are certain powers-- influence. To stay there, I must respect them. And now and then--for the sake of that power--a dam has to be built--and one must shut his eyes. It's--it's a small compromise. The *best* men have had to make them. Do you understand? (Desperately and with greater emotion as Jeff is silent) I know how you feel, Jeff. Thirty years ago--I had those ideals, too. I was *you*. I had to make the decision you were asked to make today.  And I compromised--yes! So that all these years I could stay in that Senate--and serve the people in a thousand honest ways! You've got to face facts, Jeff. I've served our State well, haven't I? We have the lowest unemployment and the highest Federal grants. But, well, I've had to compromise, had to play ball. You can't count on people voting, half the time they don't vote, anyway. That's how states and empires have been built since time began. Don't you understand? Well, Jeff, you can take my word for it, that's how things are. Now I've told you all this because--well, I've grown very fond of you--about like a son--in fact, and I don't want to see you get hurt. Now, when that Deficiency Bill comes up in the Senate tomorrow you stay away from it. Don't say a word. Great powers are behind it, and they'll destroy you before you can even get started. For your own sake, Jeff, and for the sake of my friendship with your father, please, don't say a word.
It's in your lap, Joe. Keep an eye on him. If he gets to his feet and says anything--
It's crucifying him--!
Anything *better* to offer?
Maybe he won't get up.
But--if he *does*, Joe--
 Joe! If he *does*--!
--during the consideration of the Deficiency Bill, there is a unanimous consent agreement--
--that no Senator shall speak more than once, or longer than five minutes--
--on any section of the bill. The clerk will begin the reading.
 "A bill providing for deficiency appropriations for the fiscal year. Section One. For emergency relief--"
"--to create and erect public improvements on rivers, harbors and roadways in the states of--"
 "Section Forty: An appropriation for diverting and impounding the headwaters of Willet Creek--"
"--in the natural basin of Terry Canyon. Five million dollars--"
Mr. President!
Does the Senator desire to be heard on Section Forty?
 I do, sir.
The Senator understands he is limited to five minutes?
 Yes, sir--
 Joe!
You may proceed.
Mr. President--this section of the bill--this dam on Willet Creek is nothing but a--
Mr. President!
 Does Senator Smith yield to his colleague Senator Paine?
 Y-yes.
 Mr. President--gentlemen--I--I have risen to a painful duty--to say that, out of evidence that has come to my attention, I consider Senator Smith unworthy to address this body!
I--I have hesitated to speak--but, in all conscience--
--I must.
It is a charge as grave and--and as infamous--as has ever been made from the floor against a fellow member--
I refer to the bill he has introduced in this chamber to create a National Boy's Camp. He named a portion of land to be dedicated for that purpose-- (Hurling his charge with desperate strength) and to be bought by contributions from boys all over America. (Gritting his teeth to go on) Senators--I have conclusive evidence to prove that my colleague *owns* the very land he described in his bill! He bought it the day following his appointment to the Senate! And is holding it--using this body and his privileged office--to legalize an outrageous profit for himself-- out of the purchase of that land through the nickels and dimes scraped together by the boys of this country--
Jeff--doing anything like that!
They--they're crazy!
*Jeff*--take money from *kids*!
It's a *frame*!
A dirty frame!
 Emma!
How long have you known Senator Smith, Mr. Allen?
Oh--a good many years. He used to use my land up around Willet Creek every summer for his scout camps. Seemed like a mighty nice fellow. And when he can to me with this proposition--
What proposition?
Why--a deal for those two hundred acres. 'Course, at the time, I didn't know about his appointment to the Senate--or anything like that--
Did he say what he wanted those two hundred acres for?
No. He wouldn't tell me at the time. He just made me this proposition. Said he had a great chance to sell that land for about five hundred an acre. If I'd deed it to him for six months, he'd try to turn it over and split what he got for it. I had nothing to lose. I'd be glad to sell for twenty-five an acre. So we set it up like this. I deeded him the land--and *he gave me* a contract guaranteeing me half what he got if he made the sale. Sounded kinda fishy at the time--and when I heard about his camp bill I knew there was some dirty business going on and I went right to Governor Hopper with the whole story--
Have you got that contract, Mr. Allen?
 You don't think that land would be in his name if I didn't have, do you?
--frankly, gentlemen--the morning Mr. Kenneth Allen burst into my office bringing proof that Jefferson Smith had bought that land--well, frankly, I--I was dumbfounded! Jefferson Smith-- of all people! *Never* was a chief executive so--so *betrayed* in his child like trust in man! To think that--
 Pardon me, Governor. We're interested in certain facts at the moment. What did you do when Mr. Allen brought this matter to your attention?
I consulted at once with the Head of the Department of Records--Arthur Kim.
Mr. Kim--do you remember recording this deed?
 Yes, on the date set forth here, Mr. Kenneth Allen came before me to record this deed--setting over these two hundred acres in the name of Jefferson Smith--
Let me understand. Mr. Smith did *not* appear before you?
No, sir. That is not required by our state law--
This is a very painful duty for me. This boy is the son of my very best friend. I sponsored him in the Senate. I helped him frame his Bill and the day he presented it I went over to congratulate him but I pointed out that a dam was already going up on the very site he had chosen for his camp. There are hundreds of equally good camp sites nearby and so I suggested he choose another. He became furious. He said, "Move the dam." I was amazed at his violent reaction. I couldn't understand it, until the evidence came to me that he owned those very two hundred acres and, as you have heard, had carefully made plans to make an enormous profit out of the nickels and dimes scraped together by the boys of this country. Faced with that and regardless of my personal feelings for the boy, my sense of duty told me that his expulsion from the Senate was the only possible answer.
 --what possible explanation can you offer for this charge being--as you say--"trumped up" against you!
 It was done to stop me from talking about a section of the Appropriations Bill!
It was?
Yes! This was how I could be put out of the Senate and out of the way! They even *promised* me that if I--
Wait a minute. Three days ago this bill was read in detail before the body. Why didn't you object then?
I wasn't *in* the Senate that day.
Where were you?
To--to a reception--uh--for a princess-- I forget her name--
And you say you never signed this contract with Mr. Allen?
I did not--
You've never *seen* this contract.
Never.
But you did *talk* to Mr. Allen about that and--?
I--I discussed it with him--yes-- because I--you see, I've always had this camp in mind--but I made no contract with him!
 Then--this is *not* you signature, Senator?
Looks like it, but--
But it *isn't*?
It couldn't be.
You are saying, in effect, that this is a forgery?
I'm saying I didn't sign it!
In my professional opinion as an expert on handwriting, I'd say that the name of Jefferson Smith on this contract has been forged--
--after a long study of this signature it is my professional opinion that it is definitely in Jefferson Smith's own handwriting--!
It is extremely difficult to tell a clever forgery from the real thing. You can always get divided opinions from experts. But I would stake my whole twenty-year professional career on the fact that this is not a forgery, but is Mr. Smith's own signature--
 Hello! I said *Sam Hendricks*--the editor! Can't you hear? This is Jim Taylor--in Washington. Put him on!  Hendricks! Jim. It's all over. Smith's hearing's closed--Joe's canvassed the committee--privately. First thing tomorrow in the Senate, they'll bring in a resolution to *expel* him--to throw him out!
 A dead goose!
 It'll be voted unanimously! Get our papers ready--smear it all over. And the second he's out--the Deficiency Bill passes the Senate--and we're home! Stick close to the office, Hendricks--I'll be calling!
 Your Ranger's on the garbage pile, Happy! He's done for!
 Shut up! You've *got* the man pilloried! Do you have to dance around him like a cannibal--!
 By the skin of your teeth you got out of this one, Happy--by the skin of your--!
Hey--Joe! Where you going? We've got to celebrate tonight!
No--I--I'll take a walk-- 
He's cooked! They'll drum the poor lug out of that chamber tomorrow as sure as I'm--! And now they're all down on him. Yeah--my press pals, too--he's a bad egg--still water running deep. Boloney! It's the frame of all time! When I see a phoney like this--my journalist blood boils-- I wanna *fight*!  Look, kid--rack your brains, will you? Haven't you got any confidential stuff on that mob? I'll write my arm off--I'll blow Taylor and his--
 I've told you ten times--if I had anything they couldn't bat down in a second, don't you suppose I'd've been up in that hearing yelling murder! Sure--he was cooked the night I sounded off like a fool and spilled the whole works!
Then--in the name of kindness to dumb animals--we can't let him walk into that Senate tomorrow and take a terrible punch in a nose! A couple of us went up there--told him all he could do was beat it--resign--clear out. But--he's in a daze--he's been hit by a ton of bricks. Just says, "I haven't done anything. Why should I resign?" He might *listen* to *you*--
Why me?
Come on--don't pull that. You know you'd give your right--. What are you staying away from him for?
You don't think he'd want *me* within fifty miles, do you?--after the exhibition he saw me give! Did you see his *face*--?
All I know is--he said to me tonight-- "What does your wife think?" My wife. Thinks we're married--
Well, then, that's great! And that's a great place to leave it! It's no use *my* barging into this now and--
 Yes!
I--wanted to see you, Saunders--
Go ahead. (Bitterly--as he passes Paine) Well, we certainly hunted that bad Ranger down, didn't we? Good work, *Senator*!
 What do you want, Senator?
Saunders--it's going to go pretty bad for Jeff tomorrow. There's only one thing that can be done for him now-- (Taking a folded paper from his pocket) I--I've written his resignation. He resigns under protest--denying all charges. No one will ever be sure if he was guilty or not. It leaves him with at least a shred of honor. The other way--branded openly in the Senate--expelled--he'll never live it down. Rather a simple compromise than utter ruin. In a year--the whole thing might be forgotten--
What are you driving at? You want *me* to get him to sign that?
Yes--
Why don't you do it yourself?
He's lost complete faith in me--
Well--me, too!
But--you love him, don't you, Saunders?
What are you talking about? What difference--?
Do you?
All right--*yes*! And what does that make me to him? *Nothing*! I've got to go about my own business--and forget it!
I thought I could, too. (With mocking lightness for an instant) *My* business--this fine future! I have no future I *care* about, if this boy is broken! I--I can't sleep. The only important thing in my life now is to save what I can for him. I want him to get a start again--I'll see that he's taken care of as long as he lives--!  Saunders--whether you ever mean anything to him or not--
*Me! Me*! I *still* don't see why I should--! If you love him so much, why don't you go to him yourself and-- ? Or better still--get up in that Senate and *fight* for him!
It's too late now--it's *impossible*!
So I go right back where I was-- carrying compromises--covering up-- back to political tricks--this time for--! No! I was just getting rid of all that. If I did *anything*, I ought to go and tell him to stand up and--. No! I don't want any part of it! Smith or anything else! I'm all through. I want to be left alone!
Hello... Who? (Hesitating, making a difficult decision) Yes--all right--I--I'll take it.  Hello, Ma.
 Hello, Jefferson. How are you, son?
Just fine, Ma, fine... No--really, Ma--everything's fine. Uh--how're all the boys?
 They're wonderful, son. They miss you a lot--
 Do, huh? Well, gee, that's--that's great. How's Amos?... Is, huh? Good for him--
 Well--I just got a fool notion to call, that's all. Oh--Jefferson--you know, when a man's right--he don't have to worry none--he'll just naturally come *out* right. We know that, don't we, son?
Why, sure, Ma, sure. (Quickly--to avoid crying outright) Well--so long, skinny.
 Hello.
Saunders--
 Well gee--how--how've you been, Saunders? I--I haven't seen you in-- . I suppose--now that you're married--
I'm not.
No. That night--I--well, *you* know-- I was pretty--. No--Diz is a--a sort of brother, that's all--
 Saunders--I'm not fit to sit up in the Senate--haven't you heard?--I robbed boys of their pennies and dimes!
 What are you going to do?
I--I don't know. I--I'm afraid they've got me licked.
Jeff--Paine asked me to give you this--your resignation--he wrote it out--
 It might save some of the pieces, Jeff. It would leave a doubt about the whole thing--about you. Might blow over, this way.
 Yeah. I see. Well--that's about the only thing to do. Don't you think?
 Well, I guess it's a chance.
Yeah. I guess--sometimes--Senator Paine must be right. Sometimes you-- you got to compromise a little--  And if you say so too, Saunders--if *you* think that's the thing to do--
EMPTY_LINE
Wait--
What you *have* to do is fight!
But--I've done everything I--
I don't care *what* you've done! Don't quit. Don't grab a measly chance like this to save a few pieces--other men could--but not you. As long as you lived, you'd remember you ran out and threw this country of yours to the jackals--!
 Oh--Saunders--
Jeff--listen--remember the day you got here?--what you said about Mr. Lincoln?--that he was sitting up there--watching--waiting for someone to come along? Well--that was *you*. Someone with a little plain, decent, uncompromising *rightness*--to root out the Taylors--yeah, and really light up that dome for once. This country could use some of that--so could the whole drunken, cockeyed world right now--a *lot* of it! And when the right man comes along--no matter *what* the odds--he can't *ever* quit! A little fellow called David walked out with only a sling- shot--but he had the *truth* on his side--
 Saunders--if there was *any* way--
We'll *find* one! Only throw compromise out of the window--stick to Jeff Smith, the man who first came to this town--get up and *fight*-- and we'll find *some* way. I don't know where we'll wind up--but the flag'll be flying--!
Yay!
 Hurray!
Where do we go from here?
To a hard night's work, son. Come on! (She seizes his hand and pulls him down the steps)
The Clerk will call the roll.
Nope. Not here. They never show up to face the music.
Too bad. Might've been a little excitement.
Well--wasn't in his room last night. Ten to one he's on a train--headin' home to Ma.
Well, that's good. Never *could* stand executions--
Jefferson Smith!
 Here!
 The Clerk will proceed with the roll!
--proceeding now to the order of business--
Mr. President!
In pursuance of the notice I gave yesterday, I desire to call up the report of the Committee on Privileges and Elections on the expulsion of Jefferson Smith.
The Clerk will read the report.
 The Committee on Privileges and Elections report: that it appears to the satisfaction of the Committee, after hearing a number of witnesses, that justice to the Senate requires that Jefferson Smith no longer continue a member of this Body.
 They therefore respectfully report this resoultion with the unanimous recommendation that the same do pass.
 Resolved: That Jefferson Smith be expelled from his seat in the Senate.
Mr. President, I move for the immediate adoption of the Resolution.
Mr. President!
Mr. President!
I addressed the Chair first, sir!
I am about to ask for a roll call on the passage of the Resolution--without further delay. The Senator can have nothing to say at this time that would not be either in bad grace or--
However, Senator Smith is still a member of this Body and as such has equal claim on the attention of the Chair--
You were about to recognize me, sir--
That is merely your *impression*, Senator. The Chair has yet to settle the question to its own satisfaction!
Let him speak!
 Before proceeding, I should like to remind visitors that they are here as our guests--and ought to behave as such. I might add that their sentiment will certainly in no wise affect the judgment of this Chair.
 The chair recognizes Senator--Smith!
 I thank you, sir.
 Well--seems like some of the gentlemen are in a pretty tall hurry to have me out of here. The way the evidence stacks up against me, I can't say I blame 'em. But, hurry or no hurry, sir--I've got a few things to say before I leave. I tried saying 'em in here the other day and was stopped colder'n a mackerel. Well, I'm going to get them said now--in fact, you might as well know, I'm not letting myself be expelled from this Chamber until I do.
 Mr. President! Will the Senator yield?
 Will Senator Smith yield to--?
 *No*, sir! I'm afraid not!
I yielded the floor the other day, if you remember--and was practically never heard of again.
*No*, sir! And we might as well get together on this "yielding" right off the bat. I had some pretty good coaching last night and I find that if I yield only for a question, a point of order, or a personal privilege, I can hold this floor a little short of doomsday. In other words, I've got a *piece* to speak-- and blow hot or cold, I'm going to speak it.  Mr. President--up on your desk there is a final conference report on a Deficiency Bill--waiting to be passed. Well, I'm here to tell you that one section of it is nothing but a barefaced thievery--a piece of graft--
 Will the Senator yield?
 Order!  Will Senator Smith yield to--?
 Yield *how*, sir?
Will he yield for a question?
Ah, now, that's better.
 Will he *yield*?
For a *question*.
Does my colleague's piece concern Section Forty of the bill--a dam on Willet Creek?
It does!
Every *aspect* of this matter--the gentleman's attack on that section-- everything--was dealt with in the committee hearing--
 Mr. President--
 I wish to ask the gentleman--has he one shred of evidence to add now to the defense he did not give--and *could* not give at that same hearing?
 I have no defense against forged papers and--
 The committee ruled otherwise! The gentleman stands guilty as charged. And I believe I speak for all the members when I say that no one cares to hear what a man of his condemned character has to say about *any* section of *any* legislation before this house!
 Order, gentlemen!
Mr. President--I stand guilty as *framed*! Because Section Forty is graft, and I was ready to say so. I was ready to tell you that one man in my state--Mister James Taylor-- was putting that dam through for his own profit!
 A man who controls a political machine-- and everything else worth controlling in that state--powerful enough to buy men and put them in this Congress to legislate his graft! I saw three of those men--when Mister Taylor came here to see me.
Will the Senator--
I will not yield, sir! This same man-- Mister Taylor--came here to offer me a place in this Senate for twenty years, if I would vote for a dam that he knew and *I* knew was a *fraud*! But if I opened my mouth against it, he promised to break me in two! And I stood here one day and tried--I *started* to open my mouth-- and it all came to pass. The long, powerful arm of Mister James Taylor reached right into this sacred chamber and took me by the scruff of the neck--
Mr. President! A point of order!
 Mr. President--
 Senator Paine will state it!
It was *I* who rose in this Chamber to accuse him. He is saying that I was carrying out criminal orders on falsified evidence--
Mr. President--
He has imputed to me conduct unworthy a Senator--and I demand he be made to yield the floor--!
Mr. President--I did not say that Senator Paine was one of those Congressmen I saw. If the chair please, I will deny that Senator Paine *saw* Taylor or even knows him--
I *did* see Taylor! And I was in that room!
 I accuse this man--by his tone--by his careful denials--he is deliberately trying to plant damaging impressions of my conduct--! *I'll* tell you why we were in tht room. Because Mr. Taylor, a respected citizen of our State, had brought with him the evidence against this man, later presented from this floor, and *we were urging him to resign*--
 Order!
--to avoid bringing disgrace upon a clean and honorable State!
 But he refused. He threatened to bring that very disgrace down upon the State and all of us--if we did not let him go through with his contemptible scheme!
Order!
 Finally, there was only one answer to a man like him--the truth--which I rose and gave to this body! (Rising to emphatic, desperate strength) Mr. President--he has told lie upon lie--every lie a desperate attempt to conceal his own guilt. And now, he is trying to blackmail this Senate-- as he tried to blackmail me! To prevent his expulsion, he would probably even try to hold up this Deficiency Bill--vital to the whole country--which must be passed immediately--*today*! *Anything*--to force you to clear his bad name and save his hide!  Gentlemen--I--I have no more patience with this--this *rascally* character. I apologize to this body for his appointment--I regret I had ever known him. I--I'm sick and tired of this contemptible young man and I refuse to listen to him any longer! I hope every member of this body feels as I do!
Get off the floor! Yield! Yield!
Give up this disgraceful stand--and quit the floor!
The resolution to expel!
Yield the floor!
 Please address the Chair--
 Mr. President--the gentlemen want me to yield! Well--I *would*, sir--on one condition. These gentlemen won't believe me--but the people of my State will. I want to go back and tell *them* this story. I want one week--and until I get back here and tell you what *they* say--and bring you proof that I'm right--I want the Senate's word that I won't be expelled and that Deficiency Bill will not be passed!
Will the Senator yield?
 For a question!
Has the gentleman the effrontery-- standing there convicted and in disgrace--to try to force the postponement of that bill--?
For one week!
Is he fully aware that this bill has been months in both Houses--delayed and delayed--millions will be without food and shelter until its passage-- public works to relieve unemployment will be at a standstill--government agencies will be forced to suspend--
This is unthinkable and an outrage!
Order!
The outrage is Section Forty!
Mr. President! If the Senate yields to this form of blackmail--from *this* man--and *this* time--it will become a laughing stock--
Mr. President! It's an insult to this body to be asked to listen. An insult to our colleague, Senator Paine. I, for one, will follow the Senator's example and refuse to remain in this Chamber as long as this man holds the floor!
Gentlemen!
 Well then, sir--I guess I'll just have to talk to the people of my State from here.
And I know *one* thing--wild horses aren't going to drag me off this floor till those people've heard everything I've got to say. Not if it takes all winter.
Filibuster! Wow! Filibuster!
Yes, sir. I'll go right on blasting from here--and if I know those people-- when I'm through--they'll rear up and kick Mister Taylor's machine to kingdom come.
Uh--Mr. President--you and I are about to be alone in here, sir. I'm not complaining for social reasons, but it'd be a pity if the gentlemen missed any of this. (Then, referring to his manual--in a business-like tone) Mr. President--I call the chair's attention to Rule Five of the Standing Rules of the Senate Section Three. "If it shall be found that a quorum is not present, a majority of the Senators present--," and that begins to look like me--"may direct the Sergeant-at-arms to request, and if necessary *compel* the attendance of the absent Senators."  Mr. President--*I so direct*.
 Ring the call to quorum.
No hurry, sir--I've got plenty of time--
The war's on!
He's a house-afire!
Diz--get what he says to the people back in that State. It's up to you and the boys. Keep those wires hot. Fire away, pal!
 Amazing! Fantastic!
Pop! Jeff's after 'em! Filibuster!
 Silence!
When Jeff gets through with Taylor, Pop--
 Quiet! What do you mean by breaking in here--? Get out! Get *out* of here!
Whee! Ma, Jeff's tellin' 'em, Ma! Jeff's gonna talk till doomsday--! He's fightin' 'em, Ma--Jeff won't quit!
 Well, well. Kinda *thought* Jeff wouldn't be comin' home so soon.
Comin' home--! Look, Ma--look! Read it!
 Where's that Jackson City long distance?
 Wait now--Hendricks stepped out--
 Why isn't an editor at his desk where he belongs?
Jim--the boy's talking to that State-- the story is out--!
 Sure! The fight's in the open now-- to a finish--!
And if he can raise public opinion against us--if any *part* of this sticks--
He won't get started! I'll *make* public opinion out there in five hours. I've done it all my life! I'll blacken this punk until--  Joe--your job is back in the Senate-- keep those men fighting him *there*.
I hit him from the floor with everything I knew!
Keep doing it! This is the whole works, Joe--we're out of business of bigger than we then we ever were. We can't miss a trick--we can't stop at *anything*--till this yokel's smashed up and buried so deep he'll never--!
 Yes--*yes*!  Jackson City--Hendricks!
Joe! Will you go back to that Senate!
Hendricks! Line up all the papers in the State! Don't print a word of what Smith says--not a word of any news story coming out of Washington! Understand? Defend the machine. *Hit* this guy! A criminal--convicted by Senate--blocking relief bill--starving the people. Start protests coming. Wires. Buy up every minute you can on every two-watt radio station in the State. Keep 'em spouting against Smith! McGann's flying out--be there in five hours. Stop your presses-- yank out the stories you got in 'em now--and get going--*get that whole State moving*--!
Okay, Jim. Goodbye. (He hangs up the phone, then flips a dictograph key) Stop the presses!
--Jefferson Smith is guilty! This filibuster is a cowardly attempt to turn your attention from the true facts--!
 --it's an open-and-shut case! Jefferson Smith was--
 --caught red-handed--stealing from boys!
 They're lying! A bunch of lies!
 A Committee of the United States Senate found him guilty! Like the blackguard he is! He is trying to save what's left of his name--by attacking Joseph Paine, Willet Dam! He doesn't care what it may cost the people of this country--!
 Why don't they tell us what Jeff's saying! Yeah! What about Jeff? They can't say that! What's *Jeff* saying?
--to gain his own contemptible ends, this man is blocking a bill--
 --vital to you and this entire nation. Relief will be stopped! Men will be thrown out of jobs--!
I always knew that Smith was a phoney!
--and to save his own hide, this is what Jefferson Smith is going to do! He's going to destroy everything Joseph Paine and his political party have done for this State. Joe Paine has brought us great Federal grants, prosperity--and now the Willet Dam. But Smith will destroy that, too--!
It's a lie! It's a dirty lie! Jeff never destroyed nothin'. What do you mean--'destroy'? How do you get that way?
 Quiet!
 *Will you please sit down to dinner*!
 Yes! Jefferson Smith will keep money out of this State, and work for thousands--with a deed and a signed contract against him.
 It's a frame!... Why don't somebody *do* something?... You *know* it's a frame, Pop!... When ya gonna be a man and stop this dirty Taylor from--
Silence! I *am* a man!
In other words, this man who couldn't get away with stealing money for himself, is going to take money away from you, but he will not get away with it. Citizens of this State know the facts. They will brand Jefferson Smith as he deserves!
 Mr. Taylor, calling from Washington, sir!
 What? Who?
Taylor, Pop! From Washington! Now is your chance, Pop!
 Hubert! Boys!
 Happy? What's the matter with you? *Collapsed*? McGann says you're sitting home! I want some action! Get into this!
Go ahead--tell him, Pop! Talk up, Pop! Tell Taylor it's a frame! Tell him what you think! Tell him to go fly a kite!
 Y-yes, Jim!  Please!
What's the racket?--You heard me, Happy--stop stalling--*move*!
Clark, Jim--
 Clark?... Jim Taylor--in Washington. This Smith filibuster--your chain of papers in the Southwest must know that this bill he's blocking affects your section as well as any--it's the patriotic duty of every newspaper in the country to--
I've seen filibustering, but this is--
Gentlemen, this can't go on, it's ridiculous!
Henry, we've got to get this man off the floor.
Boys, as long as Mr. Smith holds that floor legitimately, he's going to continue to hold it. If you ask me, that young fellow's making a whole lot of sense.
Sense. Do you call blackmail sense, Henry?
Now look, Joe, I didn't like this boy from the beginning, but most of us feel that no man who wasn't sincere could stage a fight like this against those impossible odds.
Well, I'm very glad to know that, Martin. After twenty years of working with you fellows, I'm very glad to know you're ready to take his word against mine. That's fine.
Ridiculous! Nothing of the sort!
Oh, yes, that's what it means. If he's just that much right, I'm wrong.
Joe, listen, can't we work out some deal to pull that Willet Dam out and let the Deficiency Bill go through?
It isn't a question of Willet Dam. It's a question of my honor and reputation and the integrity of the Committee on Privileges and Elections, the integrity of the Senate itself. Well, if you want to throw out Section forty, go ahead. I'll resign and we'll have the whole thing over with.
Now, wait a minute, Joe. Wait, wait, wait.
Wait a minute. This is a lot of nonsense. Joe's right. A deal's impossible. We've got to go on just as we've been doing and break him, keep him talking, no relief, maintain a quorum in relays. Is that how you feel, John?
For once I agree with him. Gentlemen, it's time to relieve the men on the floor.
How can a man as green as that know as much as he does? He can't go on much longer.
 "--We hold these truths to be self- evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights--" (He breaks off, remarking the Senators relieving each other-- dryly) Well--looks like the night shift's comin' on.
The Senator will please suspend until order is restored in the chamber.
This is H. V. Kaltenborn speaking-- half of official Washington is here to see democracy's finest show-- Washington's uncontrolled filibuster. The right to talk your head off... The American privilege of free speech in it's most dramatic form... the least man in that chamber, once he gets and holds the floor by the rules, can hold it and talk as long as he can stand on his feet--providing always first, that he does not sit down, second that he does not leave the chamber or stop talking. The galleries are packed, and in the diplomatic gallery are the envoys of two dictator powers. They have come to see what they can't see at home-- democracy in action.
"--certain Unalienable Rights--that among these are Life, Liberty and the Pursuit of Happiness. That to secure these rights, Governments are instituted among Men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed, that whenever any form of government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the Right of the People to alter or to abolish it, and to institute new government, laying its foundation on such principles and organizing its powers in such form, as to them shall seem most likely to effect their Safety and Happiness--" (Finishing with a flourish and putting the book down) Now, that's pretty swell, isn't it? I always get a great kick outa those parts of the Declaration--especially when I can read 'em out loud to somebody.
 You see, that's what I had in mind about camp--except those men said it a little better than I can. Now, you're not gonna have a country that makes these kinds of rules *work*, if you haven't got men who've learned to tell human rights from a punch in the nose. And funny thing about men-- they start life being boys. That's why it seemed like a pretty good idea to take kids out of crowded cities and stuffy basements for a few months a year--and build their bodies and minds for a man-sized job. Those boys'll be sitting at these desks some day. Yes--it seemed a pretty good idea--boys coming together--all nationalities and ways of living--finding out what makes different people tick the way they do. 'Cause I wouldn't give you a red cent for *all* your fine rules, without there was some plain every- day, common kindness under 'em--and a little looking-out for the next fella. Yes--pretty important, all that. Just happens to be blood and bone and sinew of this democracy that some great man handed down to the human race--! That's all! But, of course, if you need to build a dam where a camp like that ought to be--to make some graft and pay off your political army or something-- why, that's different! (Suddenly--with strength) No sir! If anybody here thinks I'm going back to those boys and say to 'em: "Forget it, fellas. Everything I've told you about the land you live in is a lotta hooey. It isn't your country--it belongs to the James Taylors--!" No, sir, anybody that thinks that has got another think coming! (He breaks off, and starts a different tune, apologetically) I--I'm sorry to be coming back to that and--I'm sorry I have to stand here--it's pretty disrespectful to this honorable body. When I think-- this was where Clay and Calhoun and Webster spoke--Webster stood right here by this desk--why, in the first place--an' I hate to go on trying your patience like this--but--well, I'm either dead right or I'm *crazy*!
 You wouldn't care to put that to a vote, Senator?
Will the Senator yield for a question?
I yield.
In view of the gentleman's touching concern for the Senators, would he permit a motion to recess until the morning--at which time he could continue to educate this august body with his profound babblings?
 Well, now--I wouldn't know about that. Mr. President--what happens to me in the morning--I mean about my having this floor to go on babbling?
 If the Senator permits this motion to recess he will not have the floor in the morning to babble or anything else, unless he is recognized first by the Chair.
I see, well, as I was saying, gentlemen--I'm either right or crazy. And I feel fine.
The people of my State have got both ears full by this time. They're probably rising up and starting here in droves just about now--so I think I'll go on talking until I hear from them.
Here you are, Senator, from Miss Saunders. (Hands Jeff the Constitution)
Oh! Thanks. (The Page Boy shows he still has on his ranger button) Well, the Constitution of the United States--  Article one--section one.
Jackson City Hall
He's a red-handed criminal, that Jefferson Smith, going to block that dam--keep money and employment out of your State--stop relief to starving millions! Are we going to let a scoundrel like that throw mud at a man like Joe Paine?
Are you for Joe Paine?
Then *tell* him you are!
Hurray for Jeff Smith!
CONGRESS! STOP SMITH!
 We're burnin' 'em up, Jim! Got every paper in the state tied up except the Clarkville Courier up near Sweetwater.
Well, buy it--or *wreck* it!
 What is it, Diz?
 Diz!
 Kid--he thinks he's talking to that mob at home, but not a line we've written--not a word he's said from that floor has gotten into that home State.
What!
Not a word! Taylor's sewed up every paper. They're tossing out everything that comes in over the wires!
 Freedom of the press! Mr. James Taylor blindfolding a whole State--  Wait a minute! If that's how he wants to play *I'll* get through to that bunch--I'll get plenty of words into that, State--!  Come on, Diz, get that stuff you've written--let me have it--
 Hello! Hello! Mrs. Smith? This is Saunders, in Washington... Yes-- Saunders--that's right. Listen...oh, he's fine--great. Don't you worry. Ma--look--Jeff has a paper there-- "Boy Stuff," that's right. Well, look--they aren't letting what Jeff says into the State. If I give you a raft of it over the phone now, will you print it up and spread a billion copies of it?--Swell! Take this down, Ma, will you?
 Boys--everything about Jeff--get pencils and paper!
 One second--*Clarissa*!
Okay, Ma!
 Shoot, Clarissa!
--the Willet Dam is a graft to line the pockets of the Taylor machine. Taylor has bought off Congressmen for years and has systematically robbed the people. He offered Jeff a seat in the Senate for life if he would vote as he was told.
--Chick--I want the whole morning edition a blast to push him off the floor! Campaign for protests--wires! Here's your front page editorial: "A convicted thief, representing you, holds the floor of the United States Senate--"
--there just can't be any compromise with inalienable rights like life and liberty. That's about the only thing I know for sure--and that's about all I got up on this floor to say--when was it? A year ago, it seems like--
 That's right, get out every piece of loud speaker equipment on wheels--!
Chick, Chick, look--"Boy Stuff" circulars--peddled by nine million kids--
 Well, what are you standin' for? Get the boys out! Kill it!
 Smith was framed! Don't believe the papers! James Taylor owns them.  If you want the truth, read--
Are you Commissioner of Safety or--? *Hoodlums*! Taylor's hoodlums are running riot in the streets! Even children are not safe--hospitals are filled! I won't stand for this violence--
 Fellas--tell your folks--the Taylor machine is framing Jeff Smith! Here's Jeff's story--put it down--!
 Saunders! Is that you, Saunders?
Yes, Ma!  What!
 Yes! Bombs--acid! Children hurt! All over the city! Tell Jeff to stop! It's no use. They--they'll just kill *him* if he goes on--and everybody else! It isn't worth it, Saunders--
*Tell him to stop*!
Senator Smith has now talked for twenty-three hours and sixteen minutes. It is the most unusual and spectacular thing in the Senate annals. One lone and simple American holding the greatest floor in the land. What he lacked in experience he's made up in fight. But those tired Boy Ranger legs are buckling; bleary eyes, voice gone, he can't go on much longer and all official Washington is here to be in on the kill.
No, sir, there's no compromise with truth. That's all I got up on this floor to say--when was it--a year ago, it seems like.
Diz, I'm afraid. Terrible things are happening. I've got to stop him.
They're listening to him. Anything might happen now.
Just get up off the ground, that's all I ask. Get up there with that lady that is up on top of this Capitol dome--that lady that stands for liberty, take a look at this country through her eyes if you really want to see something and you won't just see scenery--you'll see the whole parade of what man's carved out for himself after centuries of fighting and fighting for something better than just jungle law, fighting so's he can stand on his own two feet-- free and decent, like he was created-- no matter what his race, color or creed. That's what you'll see. There's no place out there for graft or greed or lies or compromise with human liberties. And if that's what the grown-ups have done to this world that was given to them we'd better get those boy's camps started fast and see what the kids can do and it is not too late because this country is bigger than the Taylors, or you or me, or anything else. Great principles don't get lost once they come to light. They're right here. You just have to see them.
 Mr. President, will the Senator yield for a question?
Will Senator Smith yield to his colleague?
Yes, sir, I yield for a question.
The gentleman has said repeatedly that he is speaking to the people of his State. He has been waiting, as he so fancifully puts it, for them to come marching here in droves. Would the gentleman be interested in knowing what those people have to say?
Here it comes, Diz.
Yes, sir, you bet I would.
Mr. President, have I permission to bring into this Chamber evidence of the response from my State?
Is there objection?  You may proceed, Senator.
Page boys!
I can't stand it, Diz. I can't stand to see him hurt like this.
Public opinion made to order.
Yeah, Taylor made.
EMPTY_LINE
 I guess this is just another lost cause, Mr. Paine. All you people don't know about lost causes. Mr. Paine does. He said once they were the only causes worth fighting for, and he fought for them once, for the only reason that any man ever fights for them. Because of just one plain, simple rule, "Love thy neighbor," and in this world today, full of hatred, a man who knows that one rule has a great trust. You knew that rule, Mr. Paine, and I loved you for it, just as my father did. And you know that you fight for the lost causes harder than for any others. Yes, you'd even die for them, like a man we both know, Mr. Paine. You think I'm licked. You all think I'm licked. Well, I'm not licked and I'm going to stay right here and fight for this lost cause even if this room gets filled with lies like these, and the Taylors and all their armies come marching into this place. Somebody'll listen to me--some--
 Expel *me*! Not him. *Me*!
Willet Dam is a fraud! It's a crime against the people who sent me here-- and *I* committed it!
 Every word that boy said is the truth! I'm not fit for office! I'm not fit for any place of honor or trust in this land! Expel me--!
 He did it.
Wait a minute. I've got to write this story.
 Order, gentlemen, please.
 Will you please let go of me.
 He did it! Yippee!
Yeow!
 Resign! Resign! Who found this magnificent young American? Who went down alone--in the dead of night-- and sought out this Lincoln--this-- Resign! Why, I've just begun! I'll find *more* Jefferson Smiths! I'll clean out of our glorious state every *vestige* of James Taylor--I'll--
Emma--it's the White House--no less!
Please, sir!--come with me!
No, Jeff--please--!
I say it's *your* parade, sir! You've *got* to come!
 Hello, Jefferson.
Hello, Ma.  Clarissa, Ma. She'll be stayin' a while--
 Fine--
And Senator Paine too, Ma--we'd like to have him--
 Certainly would, Joseph.
How's Amos, Ma?
Just fine.
 We'd better see.
Jeff--wait--they want you to speak!
Not *me*! Joseph Paine is the man they ought to be listening to! Come on!
Meet Clarissa, fellas.
