God save the Queen!!
I have sent for a Mr. John BROWN from Balmoral.  Her majesty has mentioned him, on one or two occasions, as being a most devoted outdoor servant to Prince Albert during his last days there...
... The depths of the Queen's sorrow remain impenetrable.  She has now restricted herself to a regime of such ferocious introspection that we are all at our wits' end...
... The Household continues, at her instruction, to observe the rituals now so familiar to her, in a vain attempt to render vivid that which can never be revived...
... It will not surprise you to hear that she continues steadfast in her refusal to accept any public engagements, however trivial...
... Family and staff expend all their efforts endeavouring to draw her out of this state of unfettered morbidity, but to no avail.  Indeed, Doctor Jenner will not undertake to vouchsafe her sanity, unless some remedy is found...
... We must hope, therefore, that this Mr Brown will appeal to the Queen's sentimental, though deeply-held, view that all Highlanders are good for the health.  If she can at least be persuaded to take the air, the prospect of further recovery may seem less remote...
 Sorry, ma'am.
... He is arriving by boat this afternoon, by which time it is hoped Her Majesty will be in a fit state to consider riding out...
... As to that decision, along with all others, we remain, as ever, prisoners of the Queen's grief.  Ever your devoted husband, Henry.
Windsor.
Congratulations, Your Royal Highness!
Thank you, Doctor.
A boy, I hear.  Excellent, excellent.
Yes.  Albert Victor.  Eddie for short.  What do you think?
A fine choice, sir.
Excellent!
Are you riding up front?
I'll stay with the pony, thank you. She's all the way from Deeside and she's not sure she likes you yet.
How many?
The Royal Family and senior members of the household, ma'am.
Just them?
Yes, ma'am.
We're expecting Brown this afternoon, ma'am.
Whom?
That's a very pretty shawl you are wearing, Alex.  Silk suits you well.  But you are not eating enough.  One must not let vanity overrule one's appetite.
Yes, ma'am.
I was due at a quarter past one.  You're late.
 Her Majesty's routine at Osborne House is not as you will remember it.  The Household remains in full mourning and no-one is permitted to raise their voice under any circumstances whatsoever.  As for the Queen's routine, she breakfasts at nine thirty, lunches at two,takes tea at five thirty and dinner at eight forty five.  No one is allowed to leave the building while the Queen is at home. On the rare occasions when she is out, you may ask permission to leave, but only with my consent. You're to be ready to walk the pony at any time after ten o'clock.  You'll clean her outdoor things and do any odd jobs as and when she requires.
How will I know?
 I'm sorry?
How will I know what she requires?
You'll be sent a message.
Who'll bring it to me?
Her Highness' Equerry.
I need a man who knows where I am.
I'm sure it won't be difficult to find you.
That's not good enough.
Then we'll have to see what can be arranged.
Aye, do.
There is to be no communication with other members of the household on matters concerning the court except through myself or one of the Equerries.  No plans must be altered unless you are given prior authority by myself or a senior member of the household.
I came down at the Queen's request. I'll take my orders from her.
In matters concerning the Household, I act on her behalf.
Do you?
Yes.  I do.
So, is passing wind out of the question or do I need permission for that?
As I am sure you remember from Balmoral, you do not talk while in Her Majesty's presence unless Her Majesty addresses you directly.
Mr Brown, ma'am.
Mr Brown.
Ma'am.
You are here safely.
Aye, ma'am.
You are well?
I am.
And the pony?
She's well, too.
Your family sent cards.  It was much appreciated.
I'm glad of it.
My husband was always very complimentary in speaking of you.  He would have approved, I am sure, of my calling on you in this way.  I trust it does not inconvenience you too much.
I've no family, ma'am, apart from my brothers and sisters.
Yes.  You have a brother in service here, do you not?  I forget his name.
Archie.
Yes.  That will be company for you.
Yes, ma'am.
Honest to God, I never thought to see you in such a state.  You must miss him dreadfully.
You do not - he ... get him out.  Get him out.  Get him out!
 So the day they arrive, she greets the Sultan and his family with barely a word and then retires to her chamber. The Sultan, not used to State Occasions without a head of State, is standing in the lobby waiting for someone to tell him what to do.  But the court is under strict instructions not to talk in the corridors so nobody speaks to him, not a living soul, for the whole afternoon.  So now it's dinner and everyone's standing round the table -- still not a word -- waiting for Her Majesty to arrive. One hour goes by, two, the Sultan's getting a wee bit peckish to say the least.  So finally, his wee laddy breaks for the cold meats and stuffs a slice in his mouth.  Well, the uproar when she heard.  You'd have thought someone had stolen the crown jewels.
So?
So, there are rules.  Things you do and things you don't do.
I was just telling the woman how I feel, for God's sake.
You don't tell Her Majesty how you feel.
I speak as I find, Archie.
Not down south you don't.
So what did Ponsonby do when she started shouting?
I think he nearly ruptured his truss.
How much?
Seventy a year.
Not bad, not bad.
How about yourself?
Sixty.
 That's pretty good for a ghillie.
Prince Leopold?  Is he the one who bleeds all day?  So what does his valet do?  Wash his poultices for him?
It's better than shovelling horse shit.
If you were looking for promotion, you should have picked one of the healthier ones.
She's hardly a full hamper herself.
 It's only grief makes her like she is.
Three years, John.  Is that not a bit long to be grieving?
She loved him.
Come on, man.  There's love and there's ...
What?
You know what I mean.
I'm not sure I do, Archie.
There's love and there's behaving like you do because there's nobody to tell you not to.
Which one of us is she flirting with?
The good-looking one.
Aye?  Then she's obviously not got enough to do.
You work the system right, you could ask her yourself.  Just be thankful you're not working for Household.  The Queen never lets them out of her sight.  But wee spats like us can slip through the net, easy.
I'm no wee spat, ARCHIE.
 Who is that?
It's Mr Brown, ma'am.
What is he doing there?
He appears to be ... standing by his horse.
I made no request to go out riding today.  How long has he been there?
I don't know, ma'am.  He was observed earlier, I believe.
Sir Henry, Mr Brown is standing in the courtyard.  I have no wish to go riding.
I'm very sorry, ma'am.  I can't imagine -- he was certainly given no instructions.
Please make sure it does not happen again.
Of course, at once.
What on earth did you think you were doing?
Awaiting my orders.
You do not report for duty unless the Queen requests it.  You know that very well.
I didn't come all this way to sit on my arse.
You will await your orders like everyone else.  Unless you prefer a repeat of yesterday's little excitement.
No.
I beg your pardon?
I thought I made myself perfectly clear.  You do not leave your room until Her Majesty requests it.
 Well, you tell Her Majesty from me, if her husband was here now, he'd have had her out of that house and getting some air in her.  What the hell's the point in me being here otherwise?!
Go inside at once.
Is that the Queen's request?
Yes, it most certainly is!
Mr Brown.
Yes, ma'am.
You have been told repeatedly not to stand in the courtyard unless requested to do so.
Yes, ma'am.
Then why do you persist in doing it?
Because I think Her Majesty is wrong. If ever there was a poor soul who needed fresh air, it is her.
The Queen will ride out if and when she chooses.
And I intend to be there when she's ready.
Prince Albert was going to build a bench here.  He thought it one of the best views in Osborne.
It's a fine spot, ma'am.
He thought so, yes.
In everything I do and everything I say, I try to think, as much as possible, what he would do, or say, if he were here now.  My Private Secretary wishes me to return to public duties--
If Prince Albert were here today, he'd tell him a thing or two.
Sir Henry is not alone.  They all wish it.  The same people who refused to grant my husband the title of King because he was deemed of insufficient rank--
It is a fine spot for a bench, is it not?
Aye, ma'am.
Yes.
I have some letters in the saddle bag. I wish to read them.
I cannot read them like that.
You will hand them to me as I require.
Mr. Carter, the Head Butler, sits there.
Not now he doesn't.  This is my place.
By whose authority?
My own.
The order of seating at the Upper Servant's table is arranged personally by the Queen herself.
That's a tautology lad. (unable to stop himself seriously explaining it) If you say the Queen arranges something, you've no need to say she's done it personally.  That's understood.
Are you dresser to Her Majesty?
Assistant, sir, yes.
What's your name?
Mary Taylor, sir.
Have I seen you up in Balmoral, Mary?
I hope to go up next year.
You wouldn't happen to know what the Queen's reading for recreation, would you, Mary?
Lord Tennyson, sir?
Am I the only one eating?
Lord Clarendon arrives, by invitation, at eleven o'clock, followed at twelve by a picnic in the grounds to celebrate Princess Alice's birthday. Dispatches, as usual, at two.  The Chancellor writes to say that, by happy coincidence, he will be in Cowes for the weekend.  He asks if Your Majesty might grant him an audience.
Why?
He thought, perhaps, Your Majesty might wish to be informed of the latest developments in government.
No.  I shall be out walking.
Then perhaps Your Majesty might consider it opportune if the Prince of Wales were to meet him on your behalf?
On no account.
Mama, I really do think it's time we made ourselves a little more ... available.
I think we must accept our position in the country is not entirely unrelated to the continued absence of the Monarchy from public life.  I thought perhaps we might consider a small gesture of some kind?
Gesture?
I thought, a dinner for our ambassadors perhaps?
 No dinners, Bertie.  Why are you dressed for outdoors?
It's so infernally cold in here.
Cold is good--  Is that not so, Dr. Jenner?!
I'm sorry, ma'am?
Cold is good!
Excellent, ma'am, excellent.  But perhaps if her Majesty were to consider accompanying her new-found physical vigor with the benefits of mental activity...
 Why am I being lectured in this way?!
Forgive me, Your Majesty.  In no way did I wish to suggest--
 I will not tolerate anybody lecturing me about the responsibility of the monarchy....
Mother....
... Least of all my son.  It was his irresponsibility that drove my husband to his grave.
If it is inconvenient to Her Majesty, then perhaps she might consider allowing the Prince of Wales to host--
I do believe they send so many boxes to taunt me. Doctor Jenner writes to them to say that my nerves are in an extremely fragile state and yet they continue to hound me with box after box after box after box after box!
I wish to take the Princesses for a swim.
The turns I have been taking in the grounds have proved most beneficial to me, and Brown thinks that salt water will do me good.
Don't potter, children.  Swim.
You could buy that lot for garden ornaments and still see change from ten guineas.
Lift your foot, woman.
This nation is fortunate in so much as it is not governed by force...
... but by a chain of traditions that have been cherished from generation to generation, because in them -- in our traditions -- are embodied all the laws which have enabled us to create the greatest empire of modern times...
... but, even though we have amassed great capital and even though we have established an industry with no parallel in the world, yet all these mighty creations are as nothing compared to the invisible customs that shape our lives.  To those honorable gentlemen of the opposition who seek to destroy the essential elements of this country, I say let them remember: England cannot begin again.
Have you seen this?
Should we take it seriously?
The cartoon or Her Majesty's absenteeism?
Well, both.
The question is, do we need her?
Surely, you're not suggesting we dispense--
My dear Stanley, a Prime Minister with only a handful of friends must respect public opinion.
Gossip counts.  Lord Aberdeen was right.  This country is not governed by wisdom but by talk.  Granted, it wouldn't take much to winkle the old girl out of mourning, but if public opinion is against her, then it doesn't do to appear too close.
So?
We'll see which way the wind blows.
My heart's in the Highlands, my heart is not here!  My heart's in the Highlands a-chasing the deer!  Chasing the wild deer and following the roe! My heart's in the Highlands wherever I go!
One box of biscuits, one box of drop tablets, one box of pralines, sixteen chocolate sponges.  It's the same order every week, but does anybody bother to check it?  Now she has to travel all the way to Balmoral without the few luxuries she actually enjoys.
So?  Someone'll send it on ahead.
Aye, but will they?
John, it's not your problem what she eats.
The woman's surrounded by fools!  She has to be packed and ready to leave by seven thirty tomorrow morning.  Knowing that lot, they'll still be dressing her at eight.
She's got an army of people to get her up and out.
But I'm the only one she trusts.
She'll blow hot and cold on you, John, she always does.  You want to be careful.
I'm on ninety pounds a year plus seventy pounds for a pile of tartan I'd be wearing anyway.  That's as much as a Page of the Back Stairs gets and that job's only for toffs. (raising his hip flask triumphantly at the sea) I'm Her Majesty's Highland Servant! Indoors and Out.  There's no stopping me now.
Oh God, not the pipes!
What are those?
What?
Those, over there, there.
 Craobhan-geanmchno-fhiadhaich.
 Craobhan-geanmchno...  How can I possibly say that with a straight face?!
I am thinking of publishing my "Highland Journals."
Are they worth reading?
 I am told so.
Who by?
Sir Henry Ponsonby tells me they are charming.
What does he know about the Highlands?
He has been attending at Balmoral for many years.
That doesn't make him an expert.
His remarks were directed at the quality of the writing, not its subject.
I don't groom a horse to have it admired by others, I groom it because it needs grooming.
 I do not do it for others.  But Ponsonby thinks they are good.
Just say what you have to say, woman. What other people think shouldn't matter to you.
 Of course I shall say what I have to say.  I always do.
Aye, well, if all you want is a good opinion then he'd be sure to oblige you.
 What Mr Ponsonby was appreciating was their literary merit, a skill not intimately associated with the knowledge of grooming.  Literary appreciation does not begin and end with Tennyson.
 I mention you in them.
In particular, the occasion when Albert was alive; the Royal Carriage overturned during a storm and you demonstrated such loyal service in returning the Queen and the Princesses safely to Balmoral.
For friendship.
 She'll be away on Friday between eight o'clock and six in the evening to visit the Grants in Glasalt.  If she's to make the journey there and back in the day she's to have no distractions the night before.  She'll take a light supper alone in her private drawing room and retire early.
She'll need to sign dispatches before she retires.
That can wait till the weekend.
There are important papers from --
It can wait.  Anything else?
Are you sure Her Majesty is up to such a long journey?  She has only just recovered from a severe head cold.
If I thought she wasn't up to it, I wouldn't let her go, would I?
Surely it is for the gentlemen to decide when to stop...
It is a disgusting habit, Bertie.  It should be discouraged.
Yes, but isn't midnight a little excessive?
It is quite late enough.
But mama, the room was built expressly for that purpose.  It has been a smoking-room by tradition ever since father --
 Brown's responsibilities are onerous enough already.  He has far too much to do without having to stay up all night waiting for you to go to bed. The smoking-room will be closed and the lights put out at twelve o'clock.
Mama...
And that is my last word on the matter.
Well, I'm sorry, but I really do think it's too much that the gentlemen of the house should be dictated to by a servant.
It's the Queen's decision.
I beg your pardon?  Mama...?
I think you should go now.  You've tired your mother enough.
There's really no need for this.
I'll not have her seeing it like it is!  I know she means well, but I wish she'd warn us she was coming.
She thinks if she warned you, you'd go pouring water on the fire and stuffing the knitting under the sofa.
Aye, well, you can't stop a wife being house-proud.
All right.  Show her in.
They're ready now.
I hope they didn't go to any trouble, John.
Ah, well...
Mr Grant.  How good it is to see you.
 Your Majesty.
Mrs Grant.  How is your knee?  Has the pain eased a little?
 Oh not so bad, ma'am.
Good.  Oh and here are Douglas and John.  Haven't you grown?
 Growing all the time, ma'am.
Will you sit, ma'am?
I know that!  That's Cairn Lochan.  We picnicked there once, did we not, John?
Ah, the greasy pole.
Don't be facetious, dear. Remember your position.
It's my position I'm thinking of.
I see the Prince of Wales is here.
I hope he got his mother's permission.
Lord Salisbury!
And in your opinion?  Is she foolish?
What?
La superstition met le monde entier en flammes.
 Has anybody seen this ... Mr Brown?
He is her personal servant, I believe.
He would hardly make a very good personal assistant if he did not.
... it's not my best china.  I mean, it is my best china now, but the family set got stolen last summer.
Oh, I'm so sorry ...
Of course it was no-one on the Estate. More likely one of the lads from Braemar.  Or further even.  I'll fetch the salt.
Mr Disraeli.  Ma'am.
Your Royal Highness.  What a pleasure to see you here.
Have you met Mr Lyle?  He's in sugar...?
I don't think I've had that pleasure.
No doubt you've heard the rumors.
I take no account of gossip, Your Highness.
My concern is for the reputation of the Monarchy.
Of course.
I fear the influence he has on her. The man's word is not to be credited. He is an arriviste of the very lowest water.  She's having a bust cast of him.  In Nero Marquino marble.
I see.
I would talk to her myself, but she won't listen to me.  She must be persuaded, by someone she respects, to abandon this ridiculous favoritism before a situation develops.
A situation?
I don't imagine you frequent the Republican Clubs.  But the fact that neither you nor I are members should not blind us to the significance of their existence.  The Tory Party has always been our party.
I'm flattered you think so.
I tell you, if we don't stick together on this, you could find yourself First President's Opposition.  Du Royaum Uni.
Quite.
I don't think we can overstate the seriousness of this.
What did he want?
To know when he'll be king.
... so Grant here and myself are riding over Lochnagar and the rain's pouring down in sheets and all we're thinking about is getting home for a drink, when through the gloom Grant spots a couple of poachers.  He gives me a shout and we chase them down towards the loch until Grant has your men up against the stacks and he's shouting and cursing at them, "Why are you poaching on Royal land?!"  And one of the little fellas looks up at him and says, "coz we've come up in the world."
Your Majesty!  Thank goodness you're safe!  I'll have a bath prepared immediately.  I recommend Macdonald's African Embrocation --
 Ah, pipe down, man.  The woman's fine.
We stayed a little longer than expected with Mr and Mrs Grant.  It was most agreeable.
We were expecting you to return by six.
And now I am back.
We took a nip of whiskey.
To keep out the cold.
Aye.
Thank you, John.
 She's drunk.
A distinct flushing around the cheeks. She was drunk, I tell you.
No, she wasn't.
Surely not ...
Don't even think about it.
Pandora's Box ...
What is it, John?  John?
I heard something.
I won't be long.
Where did he get to?  I've lost him?
I don't know if there's much worth writing about.
Hard to tell.
This close enough for you?  Go on!  On your way!  You filthy scavengers!
You leave her alone, do you hear?!
If I catch the miserable by-blow who told those men where she'd be, then I'll hang his balls to dry on Jock Wemyss, so I will!!
What happens to John Brown is his business, but the Queen's security will never be compromised!
We --
You'll talk when I'm finished!
That kind of disloyalty will not be tolerated in this house, is that clear?  I said, is that clear?!
"Court Circular, Balmoral."  "On Tuesday, Mr John Brown enjoyed a display of sheep-dipping by local farmers.  On Wednesday, he attended a seance where he was pleased to listen to a recital of Auld Lang Syne by Mr Robert Burns himself ..."
"... On Thursday, Mr John Brown walked on the slopes, accompanied by family and friend ..."
Mr Brown retired early.
If I find out that you had anything to do with this, I will have you sacked.
I believe that decision rests with Her Majesty.
Don't think I can't persuade her.
I don't doubt that the Queen was highly amused.  She has always had a very healthy sense of humor.
This is a slur on her good name.
In as much as the article is about yourself, I think you must now accept that the public has a right to its interest in you.
Nobody has any rights over me.
We are all of us subject to forces beyond our control, Mr Brown, even you.
You'll regret saying that.
Order!  Order!  ORDER!
Result of the vote to the first reading of the Bill to Disestablish the Irish Church.
Order!
Ayes to the right, three hundred and thirty, noes to the left, two hundred and sixty-five...
Mr Speaker, I table a motion in furtherance of the Bill to Disestablish the Monarchy!
Order!  Order!!  ORDER!!!
We're going to lose.
You can't know that for sure.
Gladstone's got his party facing the same way for the first time in years. We need help.  Where is the old girl?
Who?
Mrs Brown.
It's questionable whether there's any advantage to be had from that direction.  She's never been less popular.
In the press, perhaps.  But she's sold more copies of her Highland Journal in three months than Punch will ever sell in a year.  Time to wheel her out.
She's refusing to leave Balmoral.
What's her excuse this time?
The Princess Louisa is too ill to move.  Frankly, the Queen's rather upset at the recent spate of bad publicity.  You're smiling.
I was trying to imagine "rather upset."
Forgive me, gentlemen.  I'm late.
Not at all, Dean.  Good of you to spare the time.
I came as quickly as I could.
You've seen the latest cartoon in Punch, I take it?
 I beg your pardon?
 One of our madder brethren in the house was calling for disestablishment of the monarchy.
Good Lord.
 I'm sure it won't come to that.
 No.  But it has now become a matter for our consciences.  I was just telling Stanley how vital it is that the nation should feel the visible influence of the Sovereign. As a reminder that Parliament, indeed my own ministry, depends on the will of the Queen.
I couldn't agree with you more, but I am only Dean of Windsor.  I don't understand what ...
We hear from Balmoral that Mr Brown is interesting Her Majesty in some of the forms of worship associated with ... low-church Presbyterian.
What can we do?
Oh, several things.
Read it.
Again?
Read it!
"The Times wishes to join the rest of Her Majesty's loyal subjects in expressing its deep joy at the news that the Queen is soon to come out of her mourning."
Who told them that?
I have no idea.
Why not?
I -- forgive me, ma'am, I am no wiser than yourself.
No-one should think themselves wiser than me!  It is not for any of the Queen's subjects to presume to tell Her Majesty when and where She should come out of mourning.  It is the Queen's sorrow that keeps her secluded!  It is Her overwhelming amount of work and responsibility, work which She feels will soon wear her out entirely!
Your Majesty --
 Is it not enough that She is uncheered and unguided that she should also have to suffer these malicious rumors?!  I am not a fool.  I know there are those in the establishment too afraid to attack me and so they attack my dearest friends. Sometimes -- I feel that Brown is all I have left of Albert.  And now they attack Brown too.
I will not give him up to them.
I wish to see my mother.
She's busy.
Convey her a message.
She's away to Windsor tomorrow.  Talk to her there.
Tell her the Prince of Wales wishes to speak with her urgently about matters concerning the press.
Are you deaf as well as stupid?
What did you say?
I said, are you deaf as well as stupid?
Do you know who you address, sir?
Whom you address.
The future King!
Well, everyone's entitled to their opinion.
Out of my way!
LEAVE US ALONE, WHY DON'T YOU!!
You!  What's your business here?!
 Under-porter, sir.
Well, don't stand where you shouldn't!
Must they always follow us?
I ordered it.  It's for your own safety.
Dear me, you'll be telling me to watch what I eat next.
Am I not safe enough with you, John?
Aye.  But there are Fenians reported on the mainland.
 The threat from the Irish is greatly exaggerated, I'm sure.
 I'll decide when it's exaggerated.
Is anything the matter, John?  John?
Nothing's the matter.
Hey, Barney.
Mr Brown, sir --
It's cold out there tonight, Barney.
Yeah, there's a good girl.  Have you had a look at this hoof?  She was limping badly.  I think there might be a stone in it.
Yeah, yeah, I did.
Good man.  And is she all right?
Yeah.
Good.  She's a good girl.  Aren't you? Yeah, she's a lovely girl.  And you know the Queen's riding tomorrow?
Yeah.
 Are you all right, Barney?
Oh, aye...
Well?
Mr Brown is unable to attend today.
Why?
I believe he is unwell, ma'am.
Unwell?
I understand he was in a fight.
Has he been hurt?
I believe not, ma'am.  I understand -- he'd had rather too much to drink.
You may go.
And she sent no word down?
They said you were drunk.  Why don't you tell her the truth?
She'll think it's her fault for keeping me.
What are you doing?!
I'm getting dressed.
You've got three broken ribs, man!
I've got my duties to attend to.
Don't be an idiot!  You're in no fit state to go anywhere.
She'll be worried about me.
She'll get over it.
I can't let her down now, Archie.
And when was the last time she put herself out for you?  Look, John, whatever she says to you now, in the end you're still a servant.
Oh, I'm much more than that.
Aye, she may say that to you, but the woman can say what she wants.
You watch your tongue.
Come on, man, I'm telling you what you already know.
You know nothing about her!
When are you gonna see it, John?  She doesn't give a damn about you.
From the Queen!
My lips may give a message better of Christmas love than e'en this letter.  To my best friend, J.B. from his best friend, V.R. (he thrusts it in his brother's face) Best friend!
Aye.
She means it.
She'll drop you.  When she's done with you, she'll drop you.
Get out.  Out!
OUT!!
... to be followed by a visit from Lady Bridport.  She is keen to secure a place for her niece as Maid of Honor.
I am tired.
There is one other matter.
What is it?
I have a letter, ma'am.
From whom?
From Princess Helena and other members of your family.
 My family is quite capable of communicating with the Queen in person.
What do they want?
They are demanding the dismissal of John Brown on grounds of drunkeness.
You wished to see me, ma'am?
My husband tried always to make me think more subtly.  Of course he taught me so much and I can never repay my debt to him, or the love I feel, even now.  But, in truth, I think I am someone who can only feel things while they are alive to me. For that reason, I know I do not have a subtle mind.  I know that.  But I work hard and I try to do my duty. (she hesitates; she is struggling now) However, I have noticed of late that my feelings of grief are not so strong and -- that I find myself leaning more upon the comfort of living friends.  Friends close to me now.
Your Majesty, a settled resignation is more lasting proof of affection than active grief.  If the good Lord sees fit to bring one into contact with congenial fellow beings, one should not analyze one's reaction too deeply. To allow oneself to be comforted by someone else need not imply any disloyalty to the memory of the loved one.
Sir Henry.
Ma'am?
Please tell the Princess, and other signatories to this letter, that the Queen will not be dictated to, or made to alter, in any way, what she has found to answer for her comfort.  Do I make myself clear?
Ma'am.
You may go.
I would like to get down.
John?
Yes, ma'am?
I was told you were in a fight.
Yes, ma'am.
Has someone seen to those bruises?
Yes, ma'am.
Ma'am?
Yes?
Having considered my position here at court, I have come to the conclusion that it is in the best interest of Your Majesty that I should resign.
I do not accept.
I had foreseen that you would not. But Your Majesty should understand -- that my mind will not be changed in this.  I leave for Deeside --
 The Queen forbids it.  I cannot allow it because I cannot live without you.  Without you, I cannot find the strength to be who I must be.  Please.
Promise me you won't let them send me back.
I promise.
Yesterday, Gladstone talked for three hours on the Irish Church Bill ... I am as guilty as the rest of underestimating his reforming zeal. Tory days may be numbered, but I fancy there yet remains one last hope of deliverance.  Wheresoever the blame lies, we must now close ranks and defend Mrs Brown's England.  As for my interminable journey to the land of Calvin, oatcakes and sulphur ...
... no Prime Minister made greater sacrifice than attempting to run the country six hundred miles north of civilization.
How dare the Irish break with the Anglicans? If Albert were alive today he would never allow the Crown to give up Church patronage.  No, the Irish must be told, very firmly, to stay exactly where they are.  It is the thin edge of the wedge, Mr Disraeli.  Next, you will be telling me that the Crown no longer governs this nation.
Your Majesty remains at the very epicenter of governance.  As for your people, look no further than the sales of your Highland Journals to see in what affection the nation holds their Queen.  You sell even more copies than Mr Dickens.
But I lack your prose, Mr Disraeli.
Of course I understand your concern. You miss your people.  And they miss you.
Then they may read about me.
Indeed, and for that they are eternally grateful.
Is that not enough?
In so many ways ... and yet it is your presence they crave.  A figurehead.
I never thought to be bullied by you, Mr Disraeli.  You, I thought, understood a widow's grief.
Forgive me, ma'am, I cannot speak for the nation, only for myself.  As Prime Minister I confess I miss your presence, but that is only an expression of my own selfish desires and I should not burden you with it.
I stay here because I am happy.  Is that such a terrible crime?
No, ma'am.
Time for your walk.
This is my good John Brown.
 Yes.
I have asked him to show you a little of Highland life while you are with us at Balmoral.
What brings you here?
A man can refuse only so many invitations from his Queen.  It was remiss of me not to come earlier.
What do you know about the Highlands?
I am a blank sheet.
Do you hunt?
Occasionally.
Dare say you can be taught.
To shoot perhaps, but not to kill.
If you hunt, you kill.
Well then, I'll do my best.
 Always remember, you keep it tight to your shoulder, you absorb the kick. Aim for the head.  Then imagine it's Gladstone.
 Quite.
 ... Back doors, West Wing.
Side doors, East Wing.
Checked and locked, sir.
Louder, girl!
 Checked and locked, sir.
Kitchen and lower house.
Checked and locked, sir.
Back and upper corridors.
Front door.  Checked and locked.
 Did you see any Irish assassins today, Mr Brown?
We heard the dogs were Fenian sympathizers.
Or was it the stag ...?
There's not a soul here cares about that wee woman's safety except me! She'd die in a ditch if I wasn't there to look out for her --
What's this?
It's a diary.
Be careful who sees it.
What do you take me for?
You should have someone look after you.
I'm all right.  I just need to rest up a wee bit.  The room ... You don't have to stay.
The place is a mess.
I can't move to tidy.
It's what the maids are for.
I'm not having some prattler going through my things.
Won't you give yourself a rest, John? She's other people to look out for her.
She needs me, Archie.  She canna do without me, she said it to my face. (his hands come up to cover his eyes) How can I stop now?
You sent for me.
I've been called back to London.  My last day.  I thought I might take a walk on Lochnagar.
Princes and Lords are but the breath of kings, An honest man's the noblest work of God.  You must miss such magnificent views.
I don't think about it.
Forgive me, I've called you out and you should have been resting.
I'm fine.
You're injured.
It's nothing.
Still, someone must attend you.  Your wife should not have let you out.
I'm not married.
 Oh.
This is the top.
I confess, I sometimes feel as if I am not married myself, I see my wife so little.  But I'm forgetting the rewards.
The look on their faces when one walks into the room.  Still gives one a ridiculous thrill.
I wouldn't know.
Surely --
 What I do, I do for my Queen.
Was there never ambition?
 Maybe, once.
Then I envy yo.
Why?
To have achieved one's ambition, or to have reconciled oneself to its limits, is a lifetime's work.
I do what I do.
For Her Majesty.
Aye.
But yourself?  What about John Brown?
I said.  I serve the Queen.
No other aspiration?
To see her safe.
You will not be unaware of the threat now posed by Republicanism.
Why do you think I keep her here?
Ah, but therein lies the paradox.  It is her very isolation that encourages the malcontents.  The longer she is away, the stronger they become; and who, honestly, can promise security against that?  However many doors you lock, someone will always get in. Even here.
So...?
The truth is, the Queen would be safer doing her duty and returning south to her public.  John Bull loves her and John Bull is her best defense.
Her mind is set.  She won't change now.
She trusts you, John.
They don't see it.
See what?
The threat.  I tell them, but they don't see it.
They aren't as watchful as you.
Too busy looking after themselves.
The greasy pole.
No loyalty.
No love.
I promised to protect her from people like you.
For once in my life, I am not the issue.
She'll never understand it.
In time, she will.
She'll think I betrayed her.
But others will know that you acted for the greater good.
I received a letter today from Mr Disraeli.  Parliament is calling for my return to public duties.  Why won't they let us be?
He insists that the country expects me to preside over the opening of the new session.  I refuse to offer sustenance to enable his weakening grip. Besides, you know how much I should hate it.  It frightens me.
John?
We can't always have what we wish.
Duty?!  You talk about duty?!
If duty and safety are served by the same end then, aye, I do.
I cannot believe you are saying this? You, who I have relied on all this time --
 Have I ever let you down before--?
 -- You stand there and tell me it is my duty ... after all you promised me!
I'm breaking no promises!
You are forcing me to do the very thing you know I fear most!
For god's sake, woman, I'm just trying to keep you safe!
I will not hear any more about my safety!!  You made me a promise and now you have broken it!
-- When I took you out riding, come rain or shine, because I knew it was right for you, when I kept the bairns off your back so you could have a bit of peace, when I saw you safe from home to home and you didn't even know I was there...!  All I've ever thought about is you!
Then why send me back to them?!
Because I have to! (pause Will you no listen to me, woman?
Do not presume to talk to your Queen in that manner.
Doctor Jenner, I feel unwell.  I shall retire to my chamber.  Please attend me presently.
May I say, how glad I am to see Your Majesty so much recovered.
Where is my son?
Prince Albert is at Windsor, ma'am.
Why is he not here?
He is sick, ma'am.
Then why are you not with him?
You ordered all members of the Royal Family to attend you at Balmoral.
What is the matter with him?
He has typhoid fever, ma'am.
No.  You are mistaken.  Prince Albert, my husband, had typhoid fever.  I asked what was wrong with my son.
The same, your Majesty.
Why was I not informed?
I did not consider it wise, in the circumstances, to tax your nerves.
How ill is he?
 Alex?
He is not well, ma'am.
I must go to him.
We must leave at once.
Better.
Should the good Lord see fit to spare my son, I will order a mass to be celebrated at St. George's.  The people must share with their Queen, her prayers and hopes for their future King.
 The Queen will be riding to St. George's on the fifth.
 I recommend Her Majesty uses the covered carriage with a full Horse Guard.  In the event of any disturbance I will ensure --
 I will ride to St. George's in an open carriage.  It is time the Queen was seen by her public.
... praise and magnify thy glorious name for that thou has raised thy servant Albert Edward, Prince of Wales from the bed of sickness. We pray thee to perfect the recovery of thy servant and to crown him day by day with more abundant blessings both for body and soul, through Jesus Christ our Lord ...
Amen.
NO!!
So there he is, Arthur O'Conner...
 ... all seven stone of the man, paddling madly towards us through a sea of Horse Guards, waving something that looks vaguely like a pen.  I thought he must be one of the mother's ardent readership in search of the Royal indenture...
I believe I saw him first and then alerted Brown.  I'm not convinced that he wasn't taking a snooze on top of the box.  Anyway, we had our man pinned down and I must say, Brown acquitted himself admirably.  Of course the gun was a fake, but all the same, it was well done.
I intend Brown to be rewarded with a special medal cast in gold.  It will be called The Devoted Service Medal.
A toast.  Victoria Regina!
Victoria Regina!
The people of England have expressed in a manner which cannot be mistaken, that they will uphold the ancient monarchy of England ...
... If the first great object of the Tory Party is to maintain the institutions of the country, the second is, in my opinion, to maintain the Empire of England ... the hereditary, the traditionary policy of the Tory Party.  Go to your homes, teach them these truths, which will soon be imprinted on the conscience of the land ...
We should not live in expectation of contentment.  Fifteen years of vigilance will not guarantee peace of mind.  Yesterday, intruders were again reported in the South Wing.  I believe my prompt arrival may have averted any crisis, but it was a timely reminder. It is a great comfort to me that my efforts in securing the Queen's safety over the years have not been in vain. Certainly Her Majesty sends me no word that she's dissatisfied.  And I feel sure that if she were unhappy she would have found the occasion  to speak to me in person, as she has so often done in the past.
What is it?
North woods, sir.
God save the Queen!!
 How long has he been this sick?
A few days, ma'am.
Why was I not told earlier?
You should never have gone out in such foul weather.
Someone has to look after you.  It could've been someone.  It was before.
Yes.  Yes it was.
My Ministers are as impertinent as ever.  Dispatches are now so numerous, they come in a trunk.  Sometimes I do believe they will never stop.  Endless letters...
I know I have not always been the loyal friend you deserved, John.  And yet here I am now, even now, feeling desperate at the thought of losing you.
Don't be silly, woman.
Not too near.
Erysipelas.
Not too protracted, I hope.
 A few days...  When he heard, the Prince of Wales threw the bust from the window of the Royal Gallery.  It took four hours to gather the fragments.
The Queen wishes to publish an account of him.
Dear oh dear.
We think she can be dissuaded.  Have you had a glance at the diary?
Yes.
Quite.  I think I'd best take it back.
Of course.
Where did you find it by the way?
Some young page was boasting about having seen it.  Lucky.
Well, no rest for the wicked, Henry.
No, indeed.
