"Returning to England are Britain's acting royalty Sir Laurence Olivier and Lady Olivier, better known as stunning Gone With The Wind star Vivien Leigh. Sir Laurence has added a new string to his bow with the announcement that he is to direct and star in a screen version of Terence Rattigan's stage play The Sleeping Prince with none other than Hollywood siren Marilyn Monroe. When the world's greatest actor romances the most famous woman alive, we can be sure that sparks will fly. Now, now Lady Olivier, don't worry - any romance is strictly for the camera!" As OLIVIER and VIVIEN smile for the photographers, we -
We are a very long way from Hollywood.
... and this is one of Carracci's earlier works and one is able to see the emergence of his now famous Baroque style, which is clearly rooted in the tradition of high renaissance and antiquity... COLIN pauses briefly and hurries towards them. Throughout the scene there is a sense of his urgency and desire to go. The whole thing should be played at breakneck pace. KENNETH beams affectionately.
Colin! Come in. Have you met James and Anna? Two very brilliant pupils. He has the avuncular air of a benign academic, affable and a little eccentric. COLIN smiles hurriedly at the students, no time to waste.
I'm leaving for London now, Pa.
Ah, yes. Well, bon chance, dear boy... He puts a friendly arm around COLIN's shoulder and starts to walk him back to the door.
I can always get you a research position at the V&A when you've grown up a bit and got this film idea out of your system... COLIN's smiles but before he can reply JANE CLARK whirls into the room, a ball of energy, talking nineteen to the dozen.
Kenneth, you might have told Cook we were another two for dinner. What is everyone supposed to eat? Cabbage soup? Oh, Colin, darling, there you are...
I'm off now, Mama.
Off?
My job interview, remember..? But she is already continuing her journey. COLIN smiles hurriedly at KENNETH, who gives him an affectionate wave as COLIN dashes after his mother. She leaves the Library.
Can't you stay for dinner? There's nothing to eat but I'm sure the conversation will be charming.
I don't want to be late in the morning. As COLIN hurries after JANE he is nearly run down by an elderly GARDENER with a lawn mower, and has to take lightning evasive action. JANE doesn't notice.
I'm sure they won't mind. You'll be a famous film director in no time. I know your father's put in a word.
I wish he hadn't done that. I can manage on my own. She stops so abruptly he nearly slams into her. JANE looks around the garden with a frown.
I have to watch Jenkins like a hawk. One more of his murderous prunings and we'll lose the tea roses for ever. And she's off again, with COLIN still following. He can't help smiling at the madness of it all.
Now go and have a lovely time, darling. We're always here when you're ready to talk your future. COLIN wants to protest but before he can get the words out JANE sees a YOUNG GARDENER walking at the side of the house with a wheel barrow. Her face lights up.
Mullins! Be an angel - find Cook and ask her how many pork chops we need for tonight. Then bring the car round. I must get to the village before the shop shuts... She dashes away after the GARDENER, turning back as an afterthought to blow a kiss at COLIN as she goes. COLIN smiles, then pauses for a moment to look at the house. We can sense both his affection for it but more pressingly his need to get away. He gets in, puts the car in gear and the Bristol pulls out of the drive and across the moat. In the last rays of the sun, the countryside looks magical, but Colin only has eyes for the road ahead.
You're not in Mr. Perceval's diary.
Larry told me to come. She pauses dubiously, then reaches for her telephone. We hear a man answer in an office down the hall, his voice carrying irritably.
I have a Mr. Colin Clark here. He says Sir Laurence sent him. She stresses the proper name in disapproval of Colin's familiarity.
Well, what do you want?
A job on your Marilyn Monroe film.
Oh really, what as?
I want to work on the production side. He smiles with as much charm as he can muster. PERCEVAL isn't impressed.
There are no jobs yet. We don't start shooting for eight weeks.
May I wait?
What?
Until there's a job.
For eight weeks?
Something might come up. PERCEVAL is distracted as the telephone rings.
Terry? Larry wondered how the script was coming...
There are no jobs.
I'll come back tomorrow morning. Just in case.
It's a free country. He sounds as though he rather regrets it.
Are you going to sit there all day?
If I have to.
You're very determined.
I'd do anything to be in the film business.
Anything?
You can start by making me a cup of tea. White, two sugars.
You can answer the telephone while I'm at lunch, if you like. She winks. COLIN grins. The phone rings. He picks it up.
Laurence Olivier Productions...
He's at Notley until the end of the week. Can I take a message?
Vanessa asked me to...
Oh, did she? Why didn't you put that call through?
There didn't seem any need to bother you. But if you want me to transfer every single one... PERCEVAL looks at him grudgingly.
Use your judgement. He hesitates and looks back.
I need a number for Noel Coward. It won't be in the book, so you'll have to track him down. COLIN realises this is a test. He thinks quickly.
Colin, darling! How are you getting on?
How exciting. Let me see... it's Sloane 2965. Ask him if he's coming to Saltwood for the bank holiday.
I will. Mama, you're an angel.
That was quick.
I had a bit of luck. PERCEVAL looks at him shrewdly.
Am I supposed to be impressed? Did Mummy and Daddy help? Don't think they can do the job for you. The only way you'll get on in this business is through bloody hard work.
Yes, sir. COLIN leaves.
He looks up in surprise as the door bursts open and SIR LAURENCE OLIVIER strides in with his wife VIVIEN LEIGH on his arm.
Do you know, Hughie, it is simply impossible to get Marilyn Monroe on the telephone? The darling girl spends the entire day asleep. But great beauty has its way... He laughs, but then notices VIVIEN's less than enthusiastic response. Seeking refuge in some distraction he notices COLIN hovering by the sofa.
Hello, boy... remind me? He smiles vaguely and glances at VIVIEN for help.
You remember Colin, darling. You met him at the Clarks' party.
You said there might be a job on your film. OLIVIER has no recollection of this and fumbles in his pockets to cover his confusion, bringing out a packet of cigarettes and offering them to COLIN with breezy charm.
Have a cigarette. Keep the pack. He turns quickly to PERCEVAL.
There won't be any film unless Miss Monroe gets her splendid posterior out of bed.
The House Committee are threatening to withhold Miller's passport. They say he's a communist. No Arthur, no Marilyn.
I'll have a word with the American ambassador. I'm taking him to see Vivien in South Sea Bubble on Thursday... now, tell me, Hughie, are Terry's rewrites in? He puts an arm around PERCEVAL's shoulders and they disappear together into Perceval's office. VIVIEN lingers behind, smiling radiantly at COLIN who looks dumbly at the packet of cigarettes in his hand. He now sees they are called "Oliviers". VIVIEN wrinkles her nose in amusement.
They named them after Larry. The first actor since Du Maurier to have his own brand and they pay him an absolute fortune. I'm afraid they're rather ghastly. She cups Colin's cheeks with her hands and studies him in mock awe.
Isn't he gorgeous, Vanessa?
I suppose he's all right. VIVIEN's eyes sparkle. OLIVIER emerges from the office with a handful of script pages and VIVIEN looks at him slyly, getting her own back for his tactless over-praise of Marilyn's charms as she strokes COLIN's cheek.
Now, darling, you must do something for Colin. You absolutely promised. OLIVIER looks hunted. There is no way out. He glances back at PERCEVAL as he comes in.
Let's try to find him something to do, Hughie. COLIN grins in triumph. VIVIEN smiles at him.
You will take care of my precious Larrykins, won't you? She flirtatiously offers up her cheek for COLIN to kiss. COLIN's smile falters as he sees PERCEVAL looking at him grimly.
Arthur Jacobs, Miss Monroe's publicist is flying in tomorrow. He wants to see the house she'll be staying in. Find something suitable.
He looks up at the screen. The two men are watching make-up, hair and wardrobe tests for the film. MARILYN MONROE in character as Elsie Marina.
Exactly - we need to tone her down a bit.
How the hell do you tone down Marilyn Monroe?! COLIN laughs. He immediately regrets it. Both men turn to look at him. PERCEVAL turns off the projector and gazes at him stonily.
Marilyn Monroe's publicist is flying in tomorrow. He wants to see the house she'll be staying in. Find something suitable. COLIN nods eagerly, anxious to get out. He is already at the door when PERCEVAL barks at him again.
And leave the bloody tea. COLIN had forgotten the tray. He blushes furiously, puts it down and hurries out.
Out of the question. I can't have a lot of awful film people tramping through the house in dirty boots.
We'd pay a hundred pounds per week for 18 weeks.
My wife would never agree.
That's a pity. I'll have to tell Miss Monroe to look elsewhere, then. COTES-PREEDY double takes.
Marilyn Monroe?
I saw it in the West End a couple of years ago. Vivien Leigh was marvellous.
It's Marilyn Monroe in the film. COTES-PREEDY smiles transparently.
 I suppose I'd have to be introduced..?
Good morning, Mr. Jacobs. I hope you had a pleasant flight.
Where's the fucking car?
Jeez, do you Brits actually read this stuff? He winds down his window and simply throws the whole lot out into the lane. The pages billow out in a great cloud behind the speeding car, landing in the pretty hedgerows and on neat front lawns. COLIN gapes in astonishment. Welcome to Hollywood.
What is this place? A brothel? COTES-PREEDY's face falls.
It's one of the best houses in the area.
Jesus. And I thought you Brits had taste.
Is this the best you can do?
It's very near Pinewood.
All right. We'll take it. But ditch the wallpaper. It's given me a migraine.
News travels fast.
That house was perfect for Marilyn.
We can't use it now.
Yes we can. I knew Cotes-Preedy wouldn't be able to keep this quiet. They stare to him in surprise. He looks at them boldly.
When you asked me to find a house for Miss Monroe I took the precaution of finding two. The other one, Parkside, is much better and the owner is very discreet.
But now we have two expensive houses when we only wanted one.
I thought someone else on the production might want it.
Oh, did you? There is a dangerous moment when things could go either way. COLIN has gambled everything in a bid to impress them.
I guess Milton could use it. It's near the studio, near Marilyn. OLIVIER looks at COLIN, then bursts out laughing.
What are we paying you, boy? He glances at COLIN with amusement.
Nothing...
Colin Clark. Sir Laurence Olivier Productions.
The set decorators will have it all sorted out in no time.
Marilyn hates red. And blue. And green.
What about white?
I'd have to clear it with her. OLIVIER glances mischievously at Colin.
Beige, then. Beige is rarely controversial. JACOBS considers this, unaware that Olivier is teasing him.
I guess that's okay. She's never said nothing about beige. Paula will need the room next door.
Paula?
Strasberg. Marilyn's acting coach. OLIVIER looks at him darkly. JACOBS shrugs.
She's nuts about the Method.
Stanislavski and the Method are perfectly fine in the rehearsal room but they don't belong on a film set. Time is too tight. I'm sure Marilyn understands. He turns and walks away. JACOBS frowns uncertainly.
Who the hell is this Commie Stan Slavski?
I don't know why Hugh Perceval sent you here. There's nothing I can do for you.
Why not?
Are you in the union?
No...
Then you can't have a job on the film.
How do I get in the union?
By getting a job on the film.
But you just said I couldn't have a job on the film unless I was in the union.
Exactly. It's called a closed shop. COLIN looks at him helplessly. ORTON relents a little.
I suppose I might be able to sort something out. The Union owes me a few favours. We haven't got a third yet.
A third?
Third Assistant Director. You do know what the job is?
Assisting the director?
Christ, no! That's the last thing you do. Lesson One. The third's job is to do whatever the fuck I tell him. ORTON walks to the door, then looks back.
Colin! COLIN jumps as ORTON glowers at him.
Lesson Two. You don't shit on your own doorstep. Got it?
Got it. But he sneaks a look back at LUCY as he goes.
Where are you staying?
My father's place in the Albany.
You can forget that. Lesson Three. The Third always stays nearby, not in some bloody palace in London. Book a room at the Dog And Duck down the road. It's a bit rough but you'll get used to it. He grins, enjoying himself.
Now make yourself useful. Marilyn needs a bodyguard. Sort something out.
I'm sure you understand the sensitive nature of the job, Superintendant?
No need for the title. I'm retired from the force. Something about looking after a cinema actress?
Not just any actress. Marilyn Monroe. He gets no reaction from the stolid ex-policeman.
I've never had much time for the pictures.
Excellent.  For the next four months you never leave her side, day or night. There will be crowds.
That doesn't bother me. PERCEVAL pauses awkwardly.
Her behaviour is reputedly a little... erratic.
She drinks?
Amongst other things.
Pills? PERCEVAL leaves a tactful pause.
It would be useful if you could keep us informed of her... domestic situation.
You want me to spy on her? Perceval and Roger understand each other perfectly.
Just the odd early warning if you know she's going to be late on set. That kind of thing. Smith takes this in his stride; he seems wholly immune to the glamour of the movies.
You need to speak to the Coca-Cola people, Larry. They're crazy to be involved with Marilyn. PERCEVAL and COLIN meet them coming the other way.
Good news. The House Committee have decided Miller isn't a communist after all.
Of course he is. All those pain in the ass New York intellectuals are reds. OLIVIER rolls his eyes behind JACOBS back. COLIN grins.
It means Marilyn will be flying in next week on schedule.
She'll have to be met.
Naturally, Vivien and I will be there to greet her. But let's keep it low key, shall we?
Don't worry. I've got it all under control.
It is a deep happiness to me to be translating Terence Rattigan's magnificent play to the screen... A voice suddenly rings out from the back of the previously attentive crowd.
The plane's landed! As one, the entire crowd turns away from Olivier and rushes towards the plane. Suddenly abandoned, OLIVIER and VIVIEN look momentarily startled before VIVIEN glances at him with a half-smile.
It seems we're not top of the bill anymore, darling.
There she is! Marilyn! The REPORTERS surge forward. COLIN follows their collective gaze. She looks exactly as she should. The radiant smile, the platinum blonde hair, the sexy wiggle. The most famous film star in the world, so much herself it is almost unreal. Walking through the crowd MARILYN smiles easily, whereas MILLER looks stern and a little dazed by the sudden flurry of attention. Flashbulbs pop as the POLICE struggle to contain the crowd. MARILYN puts her arm around MILLER, who grins blankly. The flashbulbs burst in front of them, a solid wall of dazzling light.
Marilyn! Over here, Marilyn!
Marilyn, this way..! ARTHUR JACOBS observes the chaotic scenes with obvious relish, grinning towards ROGER and COLIN.
Beautiful. You're looking at tomorrow's front page, boys. ROGER looks at COLIN.
We have to get them to the hall. COLIN barges his way through the scrum behind ROGER and briefly finds himself directly in front of MARILYN. For a moment he is transfixed by her beauty and charisma but she doesn't even see him as she follows the commanding ROGER obediently, tugging Miller along behind her, leaving Colin in her wake.
It's my genuine pleasure to introduce a woman who needs no introduction.
A great actress on her first trip to London whom I have no doubt...
How do you like being married, Marilyn?
I like it a lot.
Is this third time lucky?
You bet it is. Arthur's the greatest man I ever met. OLIVIER smiles tolerantly, mildly put out at this. MARILYN takes off her sunglasses and blinks. She takes MILLER's arm and looks at him adoringly. He bites down savagely on his unlit pipe.
Marilyn, are you planning to see the sights?
I'd love to see the little fellow with the bow and arrow in Piccadilly Circus. There is a appreciative laughter from reporters.
Is it true you want to be a classical actor now?
I want to be the best actress I can be.
There's a rumour you're going to be in The Brothers Karamazov on Broadway.
I'm considering it.
I'll be playing Grushenka.
Can you spell that?
Sure. Can you? There is laughter at the reporter's expense.
So would you say you're an intellectual now?
My husband is. She looks adoringly at Miller, who smiles vaguely.
What's your definition of an intellectual, Marilyn?
I guess you could look it up in a dictionary. This time the laughter is emphatically on MARILYN's side. One of the reporters turns to VIVIEN.
Vivien, you created the part of Elsie Marina on stage. Do you have any advice for Marilyn?
I am sure if Miss Monroe needs any advice she'll get it from her director. I hear he's terribly good. The reporters laugh with her and OLIVIER smiles graciously. But as she smiles at him we detect just a flicker of jealous hurt in her eyes. OLIVIER intervenes quickly to continue his prepared speech of welcome.
In The Sleeping Prince we have discovered the perfect vehicle for Miss Monroe's luminous and justly celebrated talent... He stops as a REPORTER shouts over him.
Marilyn, is it true you wear nothing in bed except Chanel No
As I'm in England let's say I sleep in nothing but Yardley's Lavender.
Are all your press conferences like that, darling?
Well, that was quieter than some. Vivien smiles at the wry joke. ARTHUR JACOBS watches the proceedings with an eagle eye.
Okay, let's get a snap of the newlyweds. Smile, Arthur. It's not a firing squad. As the group breaks up, MILTON GREENE, handsome and dark- haired, now approaches OLIVIER and COLIN.
This is some place you found. He glances at the house. Olivier smiles generously.
You have my new assistant Colin to thank for that. (Pause, he shepherds COLIN over) This is Milton Greene. You must be very nice to him. He owns half of Marilyn Monroe Productions.
Forty nine per cent, Larry. GREENE  offers them a tired smile. OLIVIER produces one of his branded packets and offers a cigarette to Milton.
Have a cigarette.
I don't smoke. If he notices the "Olivier" name he doesn't show it. OLIVIER looks mildly put out.
Milton - Marilyn and rehearsals. Let's talk.
Sure. And the studio wants a new title. OLIVIER escorts Milton away. MILLER and MARILYN are now being photographed on their own. ROGER moves over to JACOBS and murmurs discreetly in his ear. JACOBS nods and moves in to end the session.
The boys at the gate are getting restless.
Let's give them two minutes and then we're done. ROGER waves to the POLICEMEN, who open the gates. The PRESS come pouring in like a mob of revolutionaries storming the Bastille.
Marvellous, isn't she? I suppose you're quite smitten. COLIN looks at her shrewdly, sensing he is being tested.
She's all right. A bit common.
But she's only been married three weeks.
Oh, Colin, I thought you were a man of the world. She gives him an arch smile and leans in intimately.
Of course, Larry would never leave me.  But, if anything were to happen, you would let me know, wouldn't you?
I'm sure he loves you very much. There is a flash of sudden anger in her expression.
Oh, don't be such a boy! COLIN looks shaken and she touches his hand in contrition.
At least you still adore me, don't you?
Of course. Everyone does. There is a wintry bleakness in her face for a second.
I'm 43, darling. No one will love me for much longer. Not even you. He goes to protest but she stills him with a finger to his lips, her smile quickly restored.
Colin Clark. I booked a room. BARRY takes a dusty ledger from beneath the bar, spins it around for COLIN to sign.
What brings you up this way?
I'm here working on a film. The LOCALS look up from their pints, unimpressed.
What film's that?
It's called `The Sleeping Prince'. The darts player, ANDY, doesn't turn. His aim remains steady.
Sounds lousy.
Ignore, Andy - not a film fan - are you, Andy? ANDY doesn't look away from his game.
Can't be bothered. COLIN tries to impress.
Marilyn Monroe's in it. I'll be working with her.
Oh, will you now? The regulars grin unkindly into their pints. ANDY doesn't look away from his game, as he offers laconically:
The Queen and Prince Philip popped in for a pint earlier. Pity, you just missed them. There are supportive snorts of derision from the LOCALS. COLIN takes it on the chin. BARRY hands him a key.
The room's three quid a week, first week in advance. You're in number two. COLIN takes the key and his bag, just as BARRY adds, with perfect deadpan timing:
You'll be sharing with Grace Kelly. The LOCALS laugh into their beer. COLIN smiles gamely.
What a wonderful adventure, Dame Sybil.
Such a lark! I long to see her. COLIN stands by the door. OLIVIER looks at his watch and shoots him a questioning glance.
Miss Monroe? The door opens sharply and a small, bohemian looking woman in her 50s stands staring at him. This is PAULA STRASBERG.
Sir Laurence sends his compliments. He's ready for the
He glances beyond PAULA to where MARILYN sits by the mirror, her reflection framed in the lights. She wears little or no make-up. PAULA looks at him sharply.
But Marilyn is not ready. She's preparing. MARILYN glances up at COLIN in the mirror and smiles with unexpected simplicity.
Excuse the horrible face. She finds her dark glasses on the dresser and puts them on.
Marilyn, here you are, everyone is so excited to meet you... He gestures to the company.
Let us begin. Do sit down, please... SYBIL THORNDIKE looks sweetly at MARILYN from across the table and indicates the empty one at her side.
How lovely you are. Here, I kept a place for you. PAULA bursts forward, steering Marilyn away instead to an empty seat on the other side of the rectangle of tables. She looks at RICHARD WATTIS, the actor occupying the seat next to the empty one.
I have to be next to Marilyn! The startled WATTIS gets up graciously and troops all the way around the table to the seat next to SYBIL THORNDIKE.
She likes me by her side.
What a good idea! I wish we could all bring a friend. One does get so terribly nervous. It's just like the first day at school, isn't it?
Welcome dear Marilyn, to our little fraternity. (Pause, looks around) We may seem a little strange and quaint to you at first, but I hope that in time you may come to find your method in our madness. Pleased with his over-contrived rhetorical flourish, he gives Paula a pointed look. She glowers back, obscurely sensing that she has been insulted in some way. MARILYN also looks up in confusion at Olivier's well intentioned but clumsy joke. Oblivious to her reaction, he opens his script with a sentimental flourish.
So. My very noble and approv'd good masters, let us now embark on our great voyage of discovery together.  With boldness and  good fortune, may we strive to create a work of art that, led by your good graces, will be cherished as long as motion pictures may be remembered. He is momentarily close to tears. WATTIS rolls his eyes discreetly, earning a grin from the actor PAUL HARDWICK. There is a rustle of pages and a few coughs, a mood of eager nervousness in the air as they all prepare for the reading.
"Were you surprised to get my invitation?" MARILYN stares at him for a beat then reads haltingly.
"I'll say I was surprised. I was so surprised I couldn't hardly think you meant me."
"oh but of course I meant you. I had your name most carefully marked down on my programme. In matters of this kind I assure you I am most methodical. Who did you think I meant if not you?" MARILYN drops out of character with a sweet, nervous smile.
Gee, Mister Sir, I could listen to your accent all day. There are private grins amongst the actors. OLIVIER smiles kindly.
You are amongst friends, my darling angel. Just plain Larry will suffice.  When you're ready..? Flustered, MARILYN looks at her script.
"Well, Maisie Springfield...
"Oh, no, no, no not Maisie Springfield, she's quite what I would call old hat... PAULA leans across, mounting a whispered running commentary in Marilyn's ear as OLIVIER speaks.
Remember why you're in the embassy, Marilyn. What does the Grand Duke want from Elsie? She thought there were going to be a lot of people here and it's just her. OLIVIER waits patiently.
It's your line, Marilyn.
Oh, let's see... "Oh, and am I what you'd call new hat?"
Locate the experience, Marilyn. Look for the memory that helps you. Remember when you went to that party at Chaplin's house and you were the only guest? How did that make you feel? This time OLIVIER stares at PAULA.
It is only a readthrough, Paula.
Marilyn has to begin finding the character.
The character is on the page.
The words, maybe. Not the character. RICHARD WATTIS whispers to PAUL HARDWICK.
She's half cut! DAME SYBIL THORNDIKE frowns with regal disapproval and smiles warmly at MARILYN.
Aren't we going to have fun?
We can't have two fucking directors!
Marilyn wants Paula.
Why? She's got me!
Paula is costing us two and half thousand bucks a week. We might as well use her.  Listen Larry, accept Marilyn on her own terms and you'll be okay.
Try to change her and she'll drive you crazy. Trust me.
Dear Christ, what have I got myself into?
Come out with me tonight.
I'm working.
Tomorrow night, then.
I'm washing my hair.
Your hair's lovely. She stops to look at him, attracted but cautious.
Look, I have two rules. One, never touch the talent...
Everyone has a lot of rules around here.
... and two, never go out with thirds.
Why not?
Because they're all randy little buggers who just want some fun during shooting.
I'm not like that. She looks at him sceptically.
Really.
How kind of you to meet us. Dear me, you do look cold.
They're ready for you in make-up Dame Sybil.
How exciting! Don't you love the first day of a new production?
I don't know, Dame Sybil. I've never had one before. DAME SYBIL gazes at him with wistful sadness.
Oh, to be young again! She blows him a kiss and the car rolls in through the gate. Almost immediately OLIVIER's chauffeur driven Bentley appears.
Marilyn here yet?
Not yet.
What the fuck's going on? I thought you had a contact in her house.
I do...
Well bloody use him, then.
She hasn't come down yet. Neither has Miller. They're playing trains. COLIN stares at him blankly.
COLIN, ROGER and MILTON sit in silence, studiously avoiding each other's eyes. Somewhere upstairs bed springs creek under the pressure of enthusiastic love-making. The phone rings. MILTON nods to COLIN to pick it up. COLIN is glad of the distraction. We hear ORTON's irate tones on the end of the line.
She's... getting into character.
She's kept Dame Sybil Thorndike waiting in full costume for two hours. It's simply not fair. The door finally opens and MARILYN emerges, with PAULA on one side and MILTON on the other. In her figure-hugging shimmering white sheath of a dress she is ravishingly beautiful. Her hair is like a halo of light around her head. No one can take their eyes off her. Slowly, all work on the set stops. MARILYN walks to the set, acutely aware of the scrutiny of the crew. She smiles nervously, then suddenly hesitates, feeling the weight of everyone's attention. Anxiety flits across her face. She whispers something to PAULA and bolts back towards her dressing room. OLIVIER stares after her in shock.
What's wrong?
She wasn't happy with her make- up. OLIVIER loosens his collar irritably and glances at ORTON.
Right, Mr. Orton you wanted me to check the back projection. Please join us, Mr. Cardiff. He stalks away, followed by Cardiff and Orton.
Isn't she pretty though?
Would you like to sit down, Dame Sybil?
How kind of you, Colin. Yes, why don't we all sit down? Colin sees her chair by the camera and goes innocently to fetch it. But as he picks it up he is confronted by a stern looking crew member in overalls.
Are you a member of NATTKE?
What?
That chair is a prop. Props are NATTKE. If ACT members are going to do NATTKE jobs, I'm calling my men out. Every eye is suddenly on Colin. Taking his shock for stubbornness TREVOR turns to the set and bellows.
Strike meeting! Half the crew immediately down tools. COLIN looks on in horror. SYBIL THORNDIKE frowns in reproach.
I'm sure we're all good union members here. There's no need to fall out over something so trivial.
It might be trivial to you, Dame Sybil, but it's my livelihood. He's not in the union. (Pause, to Colin) Put the chair down. COLIN stares at him, frozen.
Put the chair down now! COLIN drops it as though it was on fire. It clatters to the stage. SYBIL THORNDIKE bears down on TREVOR majestically.
I rather think you've made your point. Solidarity is the important thing here. When unions fall out, it's only management that benefits. TREVOR pauses, not at all sure about this, but then shrugs magnanimously.
Dave, Dame Sybil needs a chair.
I was on the picket lines in 1926, you know.
Now that was a strike. We were all Bolsheviks then! She smiles nostalgically as ORTON appears to hustle COLIN away, muttering furiously.
Didn't they teach you anything at Eton? Now fuck off and see if you can get me a bacon sandwich without starting World War III.
Camera running.
Very quiet, everyone...
Speed. The CLAPPER LOADER clicks the clapperboard.
Twenty two, take one.
Action!
"Now, before you meet my mother- in-law I must warn you she is a little vague and can be very deaf... on occasions." SYBIL THORNDIKE sweeps through the door right on cue, with MAUD, her lady-in-waiting, following. She is effortlessly in command of her lines.
"My dear, such boredom! The decorations hideous, and the music... catastrophe! Our friend, the ex-King of Moravia drove me home.
"Yes, Ma'am..."
"Oh there you are my dear, I did not see you, give me a glass of that champagne I see over there. Olga Bosnia..."
"Might I present Miss Elsie Marina?"
"Oh yes, my dear, of course I remember you well." They all look at MARILYN... and nothing happens.
Gee. I forgot my line. I'm sorry.
Cut. SYBIL THORNDIKE smiles cheerfully.
It's so easily done, isn't it? I'm sure I went wrong somewhere there too. Shall we have another go, Larry?
"Oh yes, my dear, of course I remember you well."
"What does she say?"
"She says she is deeply flattered and compliments you on your wonderful memory." MARILYN jumps in, shouting her line over the top of him.
"I'm in The Coconut Girl at The Avenue." There is a pause. SYBIL THORNDIKE hesitates.
Didn't I have a line somewhere there, dear?
Cut.
Action!
"Thank you, my dear. Sweetly pretty. She should use more mascara. When one is young one should use a lot of mascara, and when one is old one should use much more. What do you do, my dear?"
"I'm in The Coconut Girl at The Avenue".
"She says she is an actress." MARILYN looks at him, hesitant but just about in character. OLIVIER glances at ORTON who nods.
Cut it there.
Check the gate.
 Gate's good.
Print. There is a near-audible sigh of relief around the set. SYBIL THORNDIKE smiles.
That was perfect, Marilyn. You're Elsie to the life! MARILYN smiles awkwardly, not really believing her but SYBIL carries on with complete conviction. SYBIL THORNDIKE Perhaps we could practise our lines together later? You'd be doing me such a kindness. At my great age it's just so hard to make them stick! Why don't you come for tea tomorrow? In fact Sybil is word perfect every time, and everyone knows it. But it is a kind and tactful gesture. MARILYN's face lights up.
Can I?
She's impossible. I should have cast Vivien.
If anyone can make her great, it's you. You're a genius.
Oh, yes. The world's greatest living actor, so they say. OLIVIER looks at him, wanting to be reassured. He fumbles for a cigarette with shaking fingers and COLIN hurries to light it. He smiles wryly.
Let's hope I'm as brilliant as you think I am.  Now be a good boy and keep an eye on her.
I just can't figure this movie out.
You were wonderful. You are the most gifted actress I have ever known. You were superb, Marilyn. You were divine.
He was angry with me, I could tell.
You were great. You are a great, great actress. All my life I have prayed for a great actress I could help and guide. She stops abruptly and gets down on her knees in the corridor in front of Marilyn. COLIN stops awkwardly, his path blocked.
Like this. I prayed to God on my knees. And he has given me you. You are that great actress, Marilyn.
Come on, Paula, get up.
Not until you admit you were great. MARILYN smiles, her mood slowly lightening.
Oh, okay. I guess I was. COLIN glances at her, seeing his chance to help.
You really were very good, Miss Monroe. MARILYN smiles vaguely. PAULA gives him a fierce look - COLIN moves past quickly.
Are you sure you can afford all this?
Oh, it's all right.
It must be costing a week's wages.
It's worth it. LUCY can't help being charmed.
You're not the average third, are you? Most of them would be happy with a swift half and a grope in the pub car park.
I'm not living off my parents, if that's what you mean. I want to make my own way, no matter what.
By making eyes at Vivien Leigh?
Who told you that?
Word gets around.
Vivien's a friend of my father's.
So there's nothing in it? You and Vivien? He smiles mysteriously and leans in to kiss her. She avoids him coolly.
I'm not that easy. The WAITER approaches with a bill on a silver salver and offers him a pen.
You'll be signing on your father's account, sir? COLIN blushes violently.
Certainly not. I settle my own bills. The WAITER nods discreetly and leaves. LUCY looks at COLIN with a teasing smile.
I was always going to pay, you know.
Of course you were. He looks at her, but there is no hint of mockery in her smile and he is grateful.
Do you think Marilyn is beautiful?
Not compared to you. LUCY laughs, COLIN looks hurt.
You don't have to try so hard to be charming. You're nice enough as it is. Well, you could be.
You know Marilyn's really still in love with Joe DiMaggio?
So they say.
She married Miller on the rebound. The papers are calling them "The Hourglass and the Egghead".
Which one is which? She bursts out laughing. Her eyes sparkle and she looks captivating in the glistening lights. He goes to kiss her and this time she doesn't stop him.
Wait a while, crocodile.
I really do like you, Lucy. She looks at him shrewdly.
Maybe. She hears heavy footsteps in the bedroom above.
That's my dad. She gives Colin a swift peck on the cheek as she tidies herself. A moment later the door opens and Lucy's father, MR. ARMSTRONG comes in, wearing his dressing gown over pyjamas. He glances at COLIN with a suspicious smile as he looks at his daughter.
Time to be thinking about bed, darling. Early start tomorrow.
Sorry, Daddy. We were just going over tomorrow's schedule. COLIN and LUCY share a small, private smile. He takes his cue and stands up.
Yes, I should be off. Colin Clark. Pleased to meet you, Mr. Armstrong. He offers the surprised MR. ARMSTRONG a confident handshake.
This is a very nice house you've got.
Do you know this part of the world?
Next Saturday? She nods. He follows her out into the hall.
Colin, dear, I thought you looked cold so I bought you this. She hands him a bright red woollen scarf. COLIN is touched.
Thank you, Dame Sybil.
Film sets and rehearsal rooms are the coldest places on earth. He smiles as her car drives away. He wraps the scarf around his neck and looks up and down the road again.
She should be on time, like everyone else.
She is a star.
I'm a fucking star! He looks around in frustration.
If we nip this behaviour in the bud perhaps it won't be repeated.
This is Marilyn you're talking about.
Marilyn, darling you are an angel, and I kiss the hem of your garment, but why can't you get here on time for the love of fuck?
Oh... you have that word in England too? She looks at him in surprise. She looks sedated, not quite there. PAULA leaps protectively to her defence.
Marilyn has to prepare properly. She has to find in herself all that lies under the surface. Acting isn't just a case of putting on a costume or some ludicrous false nose. OLIVIER gives her a freezing look then takes Marilyn's hand, leading her forward like a child.
You must apologise to Dame Sybil. MARILYN reddens with humiliation as he takes her arm.
I'm sorry...
 My dear, you mustn't concern yourself. A great actress like you has many other things on her mind. A radiant smile spreads slowly across Marilyn's face as the older woman's words sink in.
You think I'm a great actress?
None of the rest of us truly know how to act for the camera. But you do. It is a rare gift. She looks sharply at OLIVIER. SYBIL THORNDIKE This poor girl hasn't had your years of experience. She is in a strange country, acting a strange part. Now, are you helping or bullying? OLIVIER looks aghast at being so roundly rebuked. COLIN looks on, startled.
That one's pretty damn good. You knocked it out of the park. MARILYN glows at his praise.
When Marilyn gets it right you just don't want to look at anyone else. OLIVIER frowns. For all his greatness as an actor he will never be a film star like the maddeningly instinctive Marilyn. And the injustice of it is like a stab through his heart. At the back COLIN only has eyes for the screen. He watches MARILYN's image, enthralled. Until now he has taken Marilyn entirely at Olivier's valuation, but as he watches her on screen he begins to see things differently.
We've only been shooting for four days and we're already two weeks behind. COLIN can't resist blurting out a comment.
Why not only show her the good takes? Then she might feel better about herself. He looks self-conscious as they both turn to stare at him.
The kid's right. She could use the confidence.
I believe it's traditional for the producer of the film to watch rushes. Besides, she's an experienced actress. She should learn from her mistakes.
They just upset her.
Not half as much as they upset me.
I'll do that. You go and find Marilyn's script. She thinks she left it in her dressing room.
COLIN bursts into the dressing room without knocking. Clothes are strewn carelessly all over the floor. There are pill bottles, full and empty, on every surface, along with empty bottles of champagne and bunches of flowers. COLIN rummages around on the table, moving piles of scripts and books. No luck. He walks casually through the half-open door into the inner chamber. And stops dead in his tracks. MARILYN stands by a chair, a towel wrapped around her head. She is completely naked. She looks at him in astonishment. He stares back, equally astounded. He sees her script, heavily covered in handwritten notes, lying on the table next to an open bottle of champagne and a bottle of pills.
Your script...
I found it. Calmly she takes the towel from her hair and wraps it around herself. She smiles quizzically.
You can go now, Colin. He hesitates a beat, surprised that she knows his name, before he fumbles for the door.
COLIN slams the door, aghast.
David wants to know if you're ready for the extras in the ballroom scene.
Tell him he can start sending them up. Women first. They kiss again. He pulls away.
I'm looking forward to Saturday. He looks at her uncertainly.
Our date?
Since when do you work for her?
Larry asked me to help out. She smiles sardonically, teasing him, but a little hurt.
Well, of course you must do what Larry says.
Next Friday instead? She shrugs in agreement.
I'll pick you up. Eight o'clock. He smiles, a little too glibly, and hurries away. LUCY gazes after him. He doesn't look back.
Gee, it's quiet.
It's Saturday. Early closing. But they're expecting us. She stops to window shop. MILTON lowers his voice to COLIN.
No one's recognised her.
At least she can shop in peace.
Marilyn's a star. Stars don't even pee alone. He looks around anxiously. But then a PASSER-BY suddenly narrows his eyes and takes a second look. His face lights up and he shouts -
It's Marilyn Monroe! MARILYN gives him a radiant smile and within seconds is surrounded by a crowd of SHOPPERS alerted by the fuss. A feverish excitement grows out of nothing as people come running to look, pushing and shoving to see. MARILYN is quickly hemmed in by the heaving mob. To begin with she enjoys it, smiling and posing happily for the cameras that appear out of nowhere. But as the crowd press towards something in the mood of the gathering changes; it becomes wild and over-excited mood as people scream Marilyn's name and shove bits of paper to sign in her face. A WOMAN is pushed to the ground and MARILYN is forced back against the shop window. COLIN sees a flicker of panic on her face.
My God, she'll be torn apart...
Get her out of here. COLIN and ROGER hurl themselves into the crowd doing what they can to keep the excited fans at bay. They manage to force a path to the car, drag the door open and bundle MARILYN and MILLER into the back. MARILYN is pinned against the door and COLIN has to put his arm around her shoulders as he helps her in. He hurls himself into the front, with Milton running alongside the moving car to dive in beside Marilyn. People run alongside, hammering wildly on the windows in violent hysteria. MILTON does his best to put a cheerful gloss on the chaos.
Jeez, Marilyn, they really fucking love you. As COLIN looks in the rear-view mirror he sees MILLER shaking his head in dazed horror as MARILYN slumps half-collapsed into the seat beside him.
Madness. Someone's going to get hurt. COLIN shifts his gaze to her in the mirror and his eyes meet Marilyn's. He sees - or imagines - a terrible sadness before she quickly replaces her dark glasses.
"Well we're still the first ones, aren't we? Gee, this is all right, isn't it? OLIVIER looks out from behind the camera, patient and charming.
Cut. The line is "Gee, this is all right too, isn't it". It's a tiny word, my darling, but it matters. Let's go straight away. MARILYN smiles vaguely. HAIR and MAKE-UP rush to do last minute checks.
Camera running.
Speed.
Mark it. The clapperboard clatters down. Take two. WATTIS and MARILYN come in again on their cue.
"Well we're still the first ones, aren't we? Gee, this is all right, isn't it?"
Cut. Nearly there, but Terry did work so very hard on this and we must try to get it right for him. Straight away, please. Take three.
"Well, we're still the first ones, aren't we? Gee, this is... all right, isn't it?" By now there is a panic-stricken edge to her voice.
Cut.
Can't we just drop it?
The point is that you have already admired the downstairs hall in an earlier scene. Now you are admiring this room as well.
Oh, sure. (Pause, she looks stricken) Paula! OLIVIER looks startled. PAULA comes scurrying across. MARILYN appeals to her, turning away from OLIVIER.
I don't get it. He's such a strange man. I think she'd figure out he only invited her to sleep with her.
Then she should pretend to believe it. PAULA bristles at this insult to her husband's work.
Pretend? We're talking about the difference between the truth and artificial crap.
We're in absolute agreement, Paula. Acting is all about sincerity. And if you can fake that, you're off to the races. PAULA only stares at him in disgust. Thoroughly alarmed, MILTON intervenes.
Maybe we should try for another take.
Marilyn needs time to give a great performance. You should give her as long as it takes. Chaplin took eight months to make a movie.
Eight months of this? I'd rather kill myself. Throughout all this MARILYN herself looks lost. COLIN watches her as she feels the crew's irritable collective gaze. Flustered, she flutters her hands in a calming gesture, then goes to the side of the set to lean on a bar put there for her to rest on (her costume is too tight to allow her to sit down). PAULA accompanies her. MARILYN looks up at her in anguish.
I can't do this. I can't. PAULA looks at her adamantly.
You can do it. You can't fail. You will have more pain, you will suffer more but you will create. All you need is time. MARILYN looks at her, desperately wanting to believe it.
Remember, Marilyn, a tree is never just a tree. What kind of tree is Elsie? An elm tree? A birch tree?
(Under his breath to
God knows, but I'm a weeping fucking willow.
"Well we're still the first ones, aren't we? Gee, this is all right, isn't it?"
Cut. A look of near-panic creeps into Marilyn's eyes at her inability to remember the line.
"Well we're still the first ones, aren't we?  Gee, this is all right too, isn't it?" There is a stunned moment. WATTIS gapes and MARILYN looks around uncertainly. Did she say it? OLIVIER gestures frantically from behind the camera that she should carry on. She hesitates... ... there is an agonising beat... ... and then she panics and bolts for the side of the set.
Paula!
Cut. What's the matter now? He takes her arm and whisks her away to the side of the set, lowering his voice, trying to conceal his exasperation with a honeyed tone.
Forgive me, Marilyn. This is my failure, not yours. Tell me how I can help you.
I don't know who Elsie is. I can't act her if I don't know who she is!
Elsie is all in the script
I can't find her. She's not there.
But you have her precisely, you know her inside out. I'm in awe of your gift. We all are.
She's not real.
Why not simply rely on your natural talents?
Are you saying I don't need to act? OLIVIER is bewildered by her inability to appreciate her own natural talent - as he sees it. He looks at her in genuine anguish.
Marilyn, you are the most attractive woman in the world. I'm simply suggesting you be yourself.
 All you have to do, dear Marilyn, is be sexy. Isn't that what you do? MARILYN flinches as though slapped. Tension ripples through the set. COLIN watches in dismay.
I want Lee.
You've already got Paula, for heaven's sake. I'm the director. Speak to me.
I am only Lee's representative.
It's five in the morning in New York.
OLIVIER sits brooding savagely in front of his make-up mirror with MILTON GREENE. COLIN unobtrusively fetches whisky and cigarettes for them both as OLIVIER abruptly booms out to himself.
"O, now, for ever Farewell the tranquil mind/Farewell content/ Farewell the plumed troop and the big wars/That make ambition virtue O, farewell/Farewell..." Paula's not an actress. She not a director, not a teacher. Her only talent is buttering up Marilyn.
It would be worse if she wasn't around.
You know what would make Marilyn Monroe a real actor? A season in rep. They wouldn't stand for this kind of nonsense at the Hippodrome in Eastbourne.
You have to be patient with her.
Trying to teach Marilyn how to act is like teaching Urdu to a badger. MILTON gives him a look but says nothing. Instead he picks up his bag and opens it. It is stuffed with bottles of pills. He takes one of them, checks the label and puts it in his pocket.
I better go see her. She'll need something to help her calm down. COLIN holds the door for him as he goes out.
 Pills to sleep, pills to wake up. Pills to calm her down, pills to give her energy. No wonder she's permanently ten feet underwater.
Maybe she's scared.
We're all scared. It's part of being an actor.
But you have the training to deal with it. OLIVIER turns from the mirror to survey him.
I wouldn't buy the little girl lost act if I were you. Though heaven knows it's tempting. He sighs wistfully.
And I think Marilyn knows exactly what she's doing. COLIN isn't so sure but wisely holds his tongue.
You better get over to Parkside and make sure the poor girl's all right.  And Colin? Don't forget who you work for.
Are you sure they won't mind?
Help yourself. They can spare it. Marilyn's okay. She's taken some pills and gone to bed. He frowns darkly.
They like to keep her doped up. It makes her easier to control.
You mean Miller?
 The others. They're terrified their cash cow will slip away. He smiles grimly and raises his beer bottle.
Cheers!
Breathing, very close by. Faint but unmistakable. Shallow breaths, like sighs. COLIN is paralysed. A beat, then - A door is flung open along the hall and light floods into the corridor. MARILYN is sitting on the carpet leaning against the wall only a few feet away from Colin. She is wrapped in a pink bed-cover and stares directly at him, her expression blank and sedated. By her side is an open spiral bound notebook, its pages closely crammed with handwriting.
Good morning, Miss Monroe. She is hunched in the back, her hair in a scarf, her face protected by her large sunglasses with PAULA by her side. She doesn't look up.
It's nearly lunch time.
She isn't feeling the part.
It's a light comedy. How much feeling can it possibly require?
Give her a few minutes...
She can't hide in her bloody dressing room all day.
Oh, yes she can.
COLIN knocks softly on the dressing room door. PAULA appears, opening it no more than a crack. She looks out suspiciously, sees it is Colin and turns back into the room.
It's Colin. COLIN waits a moment then PAULA opens the door wider. PAULA Come in. Marilyn wants to see you. COLIN stares at her in surprise.
COLIN comes in. The dressing room is in semi-darkness. PAULA settles down in the corner. MARILYN lies on a sofa, wearing a bathrobe, her face in shadow. Pill bottles are scattered across the dresser at her elbow. There is a long pause. She sighs softly.
How old are you?
24.  Nearly
You remind us of the young king in the movie. Kind of honest and innocent.
What's your job on this picture?
I'm the third assistant director. Just a gopher really. Go for this, go for that...
You're Larry's assistant too. He shrugs awkwardly.
What were you doing in my house last night? Did he send you?
He was worried about you.
Are you spying on me?
No! Of course not. Why would anyone spy on you? She sighs, and looks away.
Are you all right, Miss Monroe? He waits hesitantly, but she seems to have drifted off. But then, suddenly, she turns back to him, her eyes huge.
Colin? Whose side are you on? COLIN stares at her. She looks utterly beautiful and vulnerable in the shadowy light. There is only one answer anyone could give.
Yours, Miss Monroe. She rewards him with a brilliant smile, her whole face lighting up.
Call me Marilyn. He is suddenly overwhelmed by a rush of sympathy. She looks so lost and vulnerable. Perhaps he means it. Perhaps he is on her side now.
Marilyn's got a new boyfriend. Larry will get jealous.
You can say that again. He gives a camp laugh. COLIN tries to shrug it off with a lightness he doesn't feel.
Nothing happened.
You were in there for ten minutes at least. Plenty of time for a kiss and a cuddle.
Paula was with us the whole time.
The mind boggles, dear. COLIN smiles but his expression freezes as he looks up to see LUCY nearby. She has heard every word of the exchange.
Everyone watches silently from behind the camera. No one can look away, least of all COLIN. It feels like one purely joyful moment in the agony the film has become, and Marilyn is radiant. Even OLIVIER has a reluctant half-smile on his face as he watches.
I dreamed last night I could hear singing. And then I realised it wasn't a dream. There was a male voice choir serenading Marilyn under our window. At two in the morning. It's a circus. A freak show. OLIVIER smiles but MILLER looks dazed.
I'm going back to New York for a few days. I need to see my kids. I need a break.
That won't help Marilyn.
 I can't help her.  You know what she loves to do most? Sleep. It's what she lives for. Sleep is her demon. He pauses for a second.
I've disappointed her. OLIVIER looks at him. MILLER shakes his head.
She thought I could smash all her insecurities with one magical stroke. That I could make her a new person. He pauses for a second, weighing every word carefully.
She wants me to protect her but I can't. I can't even protect myself.  She read some notes I made. They were nothing. Just a few ideas.
About her? He looks up and nods slowly.
She took them the wrong way. He leaves a long, uneasy pause.
But you do love her? Your new bride and all that? MILLER plays with his whisky.
I can't work. I can't think. She's devouring me. Forgotten in the shadows, COLIN listens attentively to every word.
Hello, Colin darling. You look like Horatio defending the bridge. Are you going to let me in?
I hope Larry isn't making you all work too hard. I know what a dreadful slave driver he can be. She sees ORTON and takes his hands.
David, he would be lost without you.
Just doing my job. Tough as he is, he melts visibly. She moves on to JACK CARDIFF, the lighting cameraman, looking at him in mock misery.
I'm getting old, Jack. I need you to work your miracles on me.
You're more beautiful every year, Vivien. She laughs and turns to COLIN, looking at him severely.
Now, you are looking after Larry like I told you?
I'm doing my best... VIVIEN glances away to see MARILYN standing nearby, awkward and excluded. She has come straight from make-up and wears only a towelling robe, slippers and curlers in her hair.
Darling Marilyn! She kisses her on both cheeks and holds her hands.
Larry tells me you are quite, quite superb. I'm wild with jealousy.
Oh, but everyone says you were a wonderful Elsie on stage.
But I'm too old to play her in the film. Larry was quite brutal about that. You see, the truth is all that matters to him. That's why we all admire him so very much. She glances at OLIVIER with a fluttering laugh. He smiles back with a haunted look in his eyes.
Now, I must let you work. I only came to wish you good luck! Goodbye, everyone! The crew press around her. MARILYN watches, feeling more than ever the odd one out. COLIN watches her from the edge of the crowd. She cuts a lonely, vulnerable figure. He is totally preoccupied with her, so much so that when VIVIEN comes up behind him he turns guiltily as though caught out. VIVIEN stares at him. All her exuberance has vanished and she looks suddenly tired and older. It as though the facade of a beautiful building is beginning to crack. She gazes at him with bitter disappointment.
Oh, Colin. Not you too. He wants to protest but VIVIEN is already turning away.
COLIN pushes open the door to the projection booth. The screen is lit up with the rushes of the scene in The Prince And The Showgirl where a startlingly beautiful MARILYN, in gorgeous close-up, eats caviar and drinks champagne in a toast to the American President.
I didn't think she would be so beautiful. She... shines on that screen.
You shouldn't upset yourself. You are ten times the actress she will ever be.
If you could see yourself. The way you watch her...
There's never been anything between Marilyn and me. She laughs hysterically.
Only because she didn't want you.
You're imagining things.
Do you think I'm a fool? You didn't think the little tart could resist the great Laurence Olivier. She looks at him venomously, a dangerous, unbalanced hatred seething in her expression. VIVIEN But she saw through you, didn't she darling? Take away the actor and what's left of the man? You can't even play the husband properly without a script. (slaps him hard across the face. ) I hope she makes your life hell!
Vivien..! She storms out. After a beat, COLIN tentatively enters. OLIVIER looks at COLIN in muted apology.
She hasn't been well. There was a baby... she... we... lost it... COLIN looks down awkwardly. OLIVIER sighs.
 Do you have a cigarette, Colin? COLIN hurries to offer him one of his "Oliviers". OLIVIER grimaces wryly.
Not one of those awful things. COLIN finds a woodbine in his other pocket and gives it to OLIVIER, who lights it with a shaking hand. He inhales deeply.
Vivien's right... I did think I would fall shatteringly in love with Marilyn. What a joke. He looks at COLIN, his feelings raw and exposed.
Remember, boy, when it comes to women you are never too old for humiliation.
COLIN pours whisky for OLIVIER. MILTON comes in.
Marilyn won't shoot today. She's gone back to Parkside. She's upset about Arthur leaving England.
He's only going to visit his children.
You don't leave Marilyn alone. She can't handle it. She thinks everyone's going to abandon her. The phone rings. OLIVIER picks with a sudden burst of optimism.
Perhaps she's come back. (Into the phone) Yes?
Oh, Roger. What's up?
Yes, he's here.  It's for you. Puzzled, COLIN takes the phone as OLIVIER stares at him.
Roger? CUT TO PARKSIDE, where, to Colin's astonishment MARILYN comes on the line .
What the heck?
Why is Marilyn on the phone to my third fucking assistant? COLIN looks around helplessly.
Yes, I'm sure I can do that. CUT TO PARKSIDE. MARILYN smiles.
Well? What did she want?
She wants to see me.
He shouldn't be talking to her. He's just a kid. Supposing he says something?  Why the hell didn't she call me? His angry - and jealous - frustration is in stark contrast to OLIVIER, who looks at COLIN with a new interest, wondering if there is anything in this odd situation that can work to his advantage. He smiles calmly.
I'm sure Colin knows what he's doing. Don't you, Colin? There is a warning as well as approval in his tone.
Miss Monroe said for you to wait. She won't be long. He looks at COLIN dubiously as he goes out. COLIN is nervous and not quite sure what to do with himself. He looks at the drinks in their decanters on the sideboard and is suddenly desperate for some Dutch courage. He finds the brandy and picks it up -
I was just... checking you've got everything you need. She walks to the sideboard, standing only a few inches away from him. He can't take his eyes from hers. He drops his gaze, only to find himself staring at her breasts. He looks up again sharply but not before she notices. She takes the decanter from his hand.
Here, let me. She pours some brandy into a glass and gives it to him.
Are you frightened of me, Colin?
No.
Good. Because I like you. Colin doesn't know what to say. MARILYN gazes at him.
I want you to help me. Will you do that? She looks at him, her eyes wide. COLIN feels himself sinking into her gaze.
I'm only the third. Just a messenger, really.
But you know what's going on. You can see both sides of the situation. He shrugs in helpless agreement.
I want you to be honest. Tell me everything. She indicates a chair and COLIN perches on it awkwardly.
Relax. I thought you weren't scared of me.  Are you hungry? I'll have them send in a tray. I'm starved. He doesn't know how to reply and Marilyn misreads his silence. Her eyes widen in dismay.
Oh, gee, I'm sorry. Am I interrupting something? Maybe you have a Mrs. Colin waiting for you at home?
There's no Mrs. Colin.
So we can talk as long as we like? He nods uncertainly. She frowns.
Why is Sir Olivier so mean? He talks to me as if he's slumming.
I'll tell you what's wrong. It's agony for him because he's a great actor who wants to be a film star, and agony for you because you're a film star who wants to be a great actress. And this film won't help either of you. He stops, breathless, knowing he has gone to far. She stares at him, wide-eyed with surprise. Horribly self- conscious he takes a too large swig of his brandy, reddens and coughs. She laughs.
Are you sure you can handle that? You don't look old enough to drink.
I'm 23, Miss Monroe.
It's Marilyn.  I'm 30. I guess that makes me an old lady to you.
Seven years is nothing. She smiles then sits opposite him.
Do you know I've been married three times already? How did that happen?
You were just looking for the right man.
They always look right at the start. She smiles wistfully. Her presence is overwhelming. The silence stretches for a second, pregnant with strange possibilities. Suddenly the phone rings, making him jump. Automatically he picks it up.
Hello?
Colin? Is everything okay? What did she want?
Everything's fine. Miss Monroe just had... some large packages she needed handling... He looks at MARILYN's voluptuous figure. MARILYN looks back innocently and mouths the word "packages". She giggles. He turns crimson with the effort of trying to suppress his own laughter but MARILYN isn't helping. She teasingly makes shapes in the air of just how large the packages might be. He covers the phone, agonised, before they both collapse in irrepressible laughter. COLIN finally pulls himself together.
Hello? Milton? There is a long silence at the other end of the line.
Let me speak to her, Colin.
She's tied up right now. This only sets MARILYN off again. She howls with laughter and COLIN can't help joining her.
What's going on? Colin! Let me talk to her, damn it!
I'm sorry, Milton. I have to go. He hangs up quickly. They both laugh helplessly. MARILYN smiles.
Let's walk in the garden. See if we can find any more reporters in the bushes. She giggles. COLIN's heart contracts as she casually takes his arm.
I didn't know it was so pretty out here.
You should get out more. See the sights.
I am the sights. She giggles again, her mood lighter.
Look at us. We're just like Elsie and the young King. What would Sir Laurence say if he could see us now?
I don't think he'd mind.
I wanted to be an artist. To grow as an actor. I was so proud to be working with the great Olivier.  Now he thinks I'm the enemy. She looks at him innocently. COLIN hesitates.
He doesn't understand your kind of actor. He's hated the method ever since Vivien worked with Elia Kazan. It's all too new and strange. You're the future, and it frightens him.
Every time I walk into the studio I feel this sense of doom come over me. He looks at me like he's smelling a pile of rotten fish. And the crew hate me. Paula is the only person I can trust.  Except for you now, maybe. She looks at him, her eyes huge. COLIN feels his senses swim as he stares into them... ... and then ROGER suddenly appears on the steps.
Phone call for you, Miss Monroe. It's Mr. Miller. MARILYN goes back up the path towards the house, glancing back briefly at Colin.
Goodbye, Colin. Thanks for telling me the truth. COLIN stares after her. It is a second before he realises that ROGER is gazing at him sternly.
You'll be leaving now, I expect.
The next morning. COLIN walks in as OLIVIER is talking to
I don't care if he fucks her sideways. Perhaps it'll calm her down.  Oh, hello, boy. He smiles cheerfully.
I hear you spent last night with Marilyn.
I didn't spend the night with her. We just had a chat.
I heard them chuckling. OLIVIER offers COLIN a lewdly suggestive grin.
Perhaps if Colin is very diplomatic Marilyn is more likely to behave herself.
She just wants a chum, that's all.
A chum? Jesus Christ, what is this, Goodbye Mr. Chips? Grow up, kid. He barges out of the room, slamming the door behind him. OLIVIER checks the effect of his Grand Duke in the mirror and sighs abruptly.
I thought working with Marilyn would make me feel young again. But I look dead in the rushes. Dead behind the eyes. He gazes at himself thoughtfully.
Perhaps I'm angry with her because in my heart I know my own career is in a terrible rut. I wanted to renew myself through her but all I see reflected in that magnificent face is my own inadequacy. He leans back.
You know, I admire Marilyn. I really do. Despite her behaviour. She has taken everything Hollywood can throw at her and triumphed. COLIN waits, uncertain why OLIVIER is confiding in him.
An actress has to be pretty tough to get even a tenth as far as she has. He glances up at COLIN in the mirror, shrewd and sympathetic.
But be careful, boy. She doesn't need to be rescued. Not really.
What was Marilyn like then, Col?
Going over her lines with her, were you?
Will she be in today or is she too tired? It is all good-natured stuff but COLIN feels strangely protective, not so much on his own behalf as Marilyn's.
She was just being friendly.
I'll bet. There are hoots of laughter. COLIN retreats to a corner only to find RICHARD WATTIS pursuing him.
Ever heard of the Venus Fly Trap? There you are, Colin the innocent little fly buzzing about happily, when suddenly a heavenly scent attracts you and - Snap!
Oh, fuck off, Dickie. You've never slept with a woman in your life.
I know a Femme Fatale when I see one, love.
Three minutes, ladies and gents. Three minutes. It has just dawned on COLIN that he has missed his date with LUCY. Before he can react he is jerked violently behind the scenery and pushed up against the wall by an angry MILTON.
Arthur Miller called me. He's not happy with you.
He doesn't even know who I am.
Marilyn must have said something.
Maybe she was trying to make him jealous... ORTON turns around frowning furiously at the voices behind the set. MILTON pushes COLIN off the set ahead of him.
Listen, kid, I've known Marilyn for seven years. I fell in love with her, just like you've done. COLIN is about to protest but MILTON ignores him.
We had ten days together and that was it. She picked me up, she put me down. That's what she does. She breaks hearts. She'll break yours. My advice to you is to quit before you get burned.
I don't need your advice. And I'm not in love with her.
Okay, have it your way. You don't see Marilyn again, you don't even talk to her. She is completely off-limits to you. Got it?
I waited for you on Friday.
Oh, God... I'm sorry... I forgot... I've just been so busy.
Of course there isn't. Marilyn Monroe fancying you? Come on. COLIN is put out. Up to now he has never fully confronted the possibility of Marilyn wanting him, but he doesn't like the idea being dismissed so lightly. Lucy sees it and her eyes widen in surprise and hurt. Before she can respond MARILYN herself coming towards them in her gown, her hair up in towel, surrounded by PAULA and her MAKE-UP people. She offers him a dazzling smile.
Hi, Colin. COLIN smiles, self-conscious. MARILYN stops and frowns, looking at Lucy.
Hey, are you guys dating? That's what I heard. She looks at him expectantly and suddenly his growing fantasy that she might actually be interested in him kicks in hard. He shrugs casually.
Of course not. You know how crews like to gossip. His voice trails off lamely as he realises he is repeating what he has just said to Lucy. MARILYN smiles.
Too bad. You look cute together. She walks off with her retinue. There is a long pause. COLIN looks up to see LUCY staring at him in dismay. There are sudden tears in her eyes, which she wipes away angrily.
I thought you were different.
Lucy, I really like you. We've had such fun...
And now it's time to set your sights a little higher. I get it. Who do you think you are, Cary Grant? She shoves the rack of clothes back towards the wardrobe department. Part of him knows he should go after her, but in the end he just stays where he is. He can't help feeling an unworthy sense of relief.
Get in. COLIN looks at him in confusion. The studio doors open and MILTON emerges. He glances darkly at COLIN and ROGER.
Any problem, Roger?
Just dropped by to take Colin out to lunch. COLIN looks surprised. MILTON notices. COLIN stubs out his cigarette and hurries to the passenger door.
You're not taking him to Marilyn? That would drop us all in a whole ocean of shit.
Oh, no, sir. MILTON sees a bulky blanket on the back seat.
What do you have in there?
Just a picnic. We've been looking forward to it, haven't we, Colin? COLIN looks at him, bemused. He gets in quickly. MILTON frowns but shrugs and walks off with a wave.
Okay, well, have a nice time boys. Inside the car COLIN looks at ROGER.
Is she okay? In the same moment MARILYN herself erupts from under the blanket in the back.
Oh, Jesus - She laughs, looking wonderfully naughty.
Roger and I decided to take you out for an adventure. Didn't we Roger?
Oh, God. If Milton sees me with you... I'll be sacked... He tries to scramble out but MARILYN hauls him back gleefully.
No one can sack you, Colin. Except me, of course. She pats the seat next to her.
I don't like being on my own in the back. Before COLIN can respond he sees the curious MILTON running back, having spotted MARILYN in the back.
What the hell? He peers into the back window. MARILYN screams and buries herself back under the blanket. COLIN scrambles to get over into the back seat while ROGER stamps on the accelerator and the car roars off.
Do you think he saw me? COLIN can't help laughing. He finally tumbles into the back seat with MARILYN as the car speeds away. She scoots up to make room for him.
Snuggle up. This is fun. She threads her arm through his. He gazes down at their hands meshed together. ROGER's disapproval registers in the faintest flicker of his eyes. In the background the defeated and frustrated MILTON watches the car speed away.
This is how I ought to feel every day. COLIN smiles. Impulsively MARILYN hugs him.
Let's run away together. He turns ashen.
We have today, anyway. One day to do whatever we like. We can go back to real life tomorrow.
Only one day?
Well, maybe the weekend.
Or a week? He grins. She takes his hand, walking contentedly at his side.
What shall we do?
We could go to Windsor Castle, if you like. MARILYN's face breaks into a smile of pure delight.
Detective Chief Superintendant Smith. I'm escorting this lady and gentleman for the day. They'd like to look around the castle. As the policemen see MARILYN their eyes widen.
Christ, is that..? He stares in disbelief. ROGER smiles.
Well, it's not Diana bloody Dors, is it?
 Does she know anyone here, sir? We need to write down a contact name in the book. ROGER looks stumped at this. He turns to Marilyn.
You don't know Her Majesty, by any chance?
We met at a movie premiere. She said my dress was pretty.
I'm not sure that quite...
Name?
Clark. Colin Clark. The POLICEMAN retreats into his box. We hear him talking on the telephone. ROGER looks at COLIN. He shrugs sheepishly.
My father knows everybody. A moment later the policeman returns, looking surprised.
He says to go straight up the hill, sir. You'll be met at the door.
Colin, my boy! Come in, come in. Forgive the dust. He smiles at MARILYN, showing no sign whatever of recognising her.
You are pretty, my dear. I'm sure you and Colin have so much in common. MARILYN looks around in awe.
Gee, I'd love to read all these books some time.
Luckily one doesn't really have to. A lot of them just have pictures in. He finds a portfolio on the table and opens it.
These are by an artist called Holbein. MARILYN smiles at a portrait of a young woman.
She's beautiful.
She was the daughter of one of the King's courtiers, nearly 400 years ago.
I hope I look that good when I'm
And these are all by Leonardo Da Vinci.
I've heard of him! Didn't he paint that lady with the funny smile? She looks at him, wide-eyed, playing up to her image as the dizzy blonde. In fact she knows exactly who Da Vinci is, and MORSHEAD is tactful enough to acknowledge it gracefully.
The Mona Lisa.
Do you have that one here too?
Alas, that one got away. He closes the portfolio and takes MARILYN's arm briskly.
Now, let's go to the Queen's apartments. She's not here at the moment, but she will be sorry to have missed you. MARILYN looks at him, wide-eyed.
Really?
Oh, yes. Why, she was only saying to me the other day, "what must it be like to be the most famous woman on earth"? He shares a sly smile with COLIN. He knows exactly who Marilyn is and is enjoying every second of her company. He leads her out, with COLIN trailing in their wake.
Some of the rooms are very opulent but I think there's something you might like better than all that.
Look, Colin. COLIN kneels at her side.
I sure never had a dolls' house like this when I was a kid. She sees a perfect doll family inside, husband, wife and two children. She points at them, her eyes shining.
This is me, that's you, and these are our kids. She smiles wistfully and puts her hand on his arm.
Our daughter's so pretty. All little girls should be told how pretty they are. They should grow up knowing how much their mother loves them. Her eyes fill with sadness for a moment.
We look like such a happy family, don't we?
You mustn't let me keep you. I'm sure you're longing to be on your way.
Shall I be "her"? She jumps up onto a step and strikes a pose - hip out, shoulders back, bosom thrust forward, the classic Marilyn "look". The delighted crowd bursts into cheers. COLIN stands proudly nearby, content to watch Marilyn being a star, basking in the certain knowledge that she will be leaving with him. One of the spectators turns to him.
Are you somebody, mate?
This isn't a school, it's a palace! COLIN smiles.
Eton is 500 years old. It was founded by King Henry VI.
It's like walking through history.
Take that room up there. They stop as COLIN points up at a window.
That's where the boys were sent if they didn't work hard enough. Where we were whipped. MARILYN looks at him in shock.
Whipped?
Beaten. She looks appalled.
I'd never send my kids away. How long were you here?
Five years. But I was sent to boarding school when I was eight.
Why?
That's what we do in my family. She smiles at this, looking at him shrewdly.
It seems to me that you've had most things pretty easy.
In one way, yes. But when you're brought up in a house of over- achievers, it's hard to make your own mark. She looks at him, sympathetic but pushing a little harder.
So how are you going to do it?
Maybe it will be in films, but if not, there are so many possibilities out there.
Sounds pretty good to me. She smiles warmly, liking him a lot more for his openness. We sense their relationship has moved quietly to a different and deeper level. But before either of them can say anything a SCHOOLBOY turns the corner in his Eton uniform.
Marilyn! It's Marilyn Monroe!
Work hard, boys! I don't want anyone whipping you! A gawky young teenager near the front shouts out cheekily.
You can whip me anytime, Marilyn! MARILYN laughs in delight. There are cheers as COLIN escorts her away.
Hurry up, slow poke.
But we haven't got any... He stops in mid-sentence as he sees MARILYN unbuttoning her blouse and throwing it off carelessly.
Oh my gosh! It's freezing!
This is great.
What if a boat goes past? We could be arrested.
Don't worry. Roger will fix it. Oh, darn it... She holds her head and he looks at her with concern.
What's wrong?
I have something in my eye. He swims across to her, very aware of her naked body under the water. She holds her head up to him.
I can't see anything.
Get closer. She tips her head back. He looks deep into her eyes - and suddenly she grabs him and kisses him on the lips. Before he can respond she laughs playfully and swims away.
That's the first time I've kissed anyone younger than me. There's a lot of older guys in Hollywood. She swims happily, totally relaxed. COLIN is much more self- conscious, keeping one nervous eye open for pleasure boats. Finally she swims back into the shallows and wades to the shore. She glances back, catching Colin looking. He glances away, embarrassed.
Don't be shy, Colin. It's nothing you haven't seen before. COLIN wades awkwardly to the shore, trying to conceal his erection with his cupped hands. MARILYN giggles.
Oh, Colin! And you an old Etonian! He grins. She reaches for her blouse and stands shivering as she tries to dry herself. COLIN goes to take her in his arms.
Let me warm you up. She snuggles into him gratefully, her teeth chattering. He rubs her naked back briskly, her thin blouse the only barrier between their bodies. Slowly his embrace becomes more sensual, his hands slowing, stroking rather than rubbing, his face buried in her hair, his arms pulling her
Don't spoil it. She looks at him, her expression knowing but sweet.
I want this to be the perfect date. He tries to kiss her but she ducks her head away gently, her expression wistful.
I haven't had a real date since I was 13 years old. She suddenly looks much younger, her smile a poignant echo of a lost childhood. He steps back politely, allowing her to put on her blouse. As she buttons it, she gazes at him, then impulsively leans forward to kiss him chastely on the lips. The kiss is as sweet and innocent as any 13 year old might wish. The kiss lasts for a few seconds, their lips touching gently, the river shimmering magically in the sunshine behind them. When they finally break apart she rewards him with a radiant smile.
That was nice. I don't get kissed much. She looks wistful for a second but quickly brightens.
Okay, what do we do now? COLIN looks at her, knowing it is time to return to the real world but reluctant to face it. There is a discreet cough and ROGER appears.
Time to go home, I think, Miss Monroe. She smiles, a little sadly, then gets up, walking past him as she puts on the rest of her clothes. ROGER averts his eyes respectfully and waits for COLIN. The two men look at each other for a second.
Be careful not to get in too deep, son. COLIN knows he isn't talking about the river.
Hi Milton. She smiles sweetly.
Next time I come on set, you better make sure Colin is there. He looks at her in shock then bitterly at COLIN.
You spent the day with her. What frame of mind was she in?
She was fine.
Don't start, Dicky.
You won't get any sympathy from me, dear. Frankly I wouldn't care if Marilyn dropped dead tomorrow.
She's trying her best.
She's Marilyn Monroe. This is her life. Pills, booze, sex, more pills.  God, it must be wonderful! COLIN doesn't laugh. WATTIS looks at him sympathetically.
Oh, dear. Little Colin's in love.
Marilyn's not well.
But she was wonderful yesterday. MILTON looks at him for a long moment, masking his hostility in barbed politeness.
I don't know what you did to her, kid, but she got nervous. I had to give her some pills to calm her down.
She doesn't need pills! She just needs someone to care for her.
Someone like you? COLIN reddens. MILTON shakes his head patronisingly.
I told you, I'm not in love with her!
You kissed her.
She said that?
Spare me the bullshit. I know everything. COLIN stares at him, feeling hopelessly out of his depth.
You messed her up, kid. Confused her. He comes very close, his tone fierce but wounded.
I've got every penny I ever made tied up in Marilyn. She owes me. If it wasn't for me she'd still be on contracts that make slave wages look good. I gave her back her freedom, and now Miller's turning her against me. That's what you get for trying to help Marilyn Monroe. He goes back to the house, pausing at the door, speaking more in sorrow than anger.
If you want to play with the grown-ups, Colin, start learning the rules.
Roger? What's the matter?
Is she dead?
She's asking for you. She's sick. I think she might be in a coma.
How can she be asking for me if she's in a coma?
Just bloody get dressed!
She hasn't made a sound for over an hour.
We should break down the door.
How many pills did she take?
Oh, Jesus, who knows? I wasn't counting. COLIN knocks gently.
Marilyn? There is no reply.
That's her window. He points with his torch. The window is open. COLIN shins up the ladder while ROGER holds it.
I'll open the door once I'm inside.
Marilyn? A shaft of moonlight reveals MARILYN lying naked across the bed, her body partly covered by the sheet. Half empty pill and champagne bottles are scattered all over her dresser; there is also an old photograph in a silver frame of her mother Gladys.
Marilyn? For a second he fears the worst, but then suddenly she groans and sits up, looking at him blearily.
Oh hi, Colin.
Are you okay? Everyone was worried about you.
Phooey. She pats the sheets at her side and settles down sleepily on the pillow.
Get in. She is instantly back asleep. COLIN fumbles his way to the door. He searches for the key on the side table and quickly finds it. He goes to unlock the door, but then pauses, looking back at Marilyn. He puts the key back and bends down to whisper at the keyhole.
It's me. She's fine but I'm going to keep an eye on her. I'll sleep on the sofa.
 I can't find the key.  You can all go to bed now.
Colin? What are you doing here? MARILYN sits up, the sheet clutched to her chest, her expression panicky and disoriented. COLIN hurls himself off the bed.
I came in through the window... He realises this doesn't sound reassuring.
Milton thought you were sick. She stares at him in puzzlement then breaks into a dazed smile.
The window? Is there a balcony, like in Romeo And Juliet? How romantic.  But I'm not sick. What makes them think that? She reaches instinctively for the pill container on her bedside table.
Please don't take any more pills. She frowns, clutching the pill bottle in one hand. He reaches out and prises it gently from her grasp. As he puts it back on the side he glances at the framed photograph. COLIN Who's that?
My mom. Her expression softens as she looks at the picture.
They took her to the Sanatorium when I was a kid. I grew up in other people's homes, mostly. Alongside her mother's photo is another framed picture, this time of Abraham Lincoln. COLIN frowns.
Abraham Lincoln?
I don't know who my father is so it might as well be him. Why not? I can pick any father I want. She smiles, then looks at Colin wistfully.
Do you have a home, Colin? A real one?
Yes, I do.
And a mother and father who still live together?
Yes.
And do they love you?
I'm sure they do. He nods. She smiles sadly.
You're lucky. Her eyes fill with tears. She looks up at him anxiously.
Do you love me, Colin? He stares at her. She looks lovely but desperately vulnerable.
Yes. She reaches for the pills and pours three or four into her palm. COLIN gently takes her hand and takes two of them away. She smiles, not objecting as he settles her back gently on the pillow.
But you and I come from different worlds. You're like some Greek Goddess to me...
I'm not Greek. She smiles, teasing him. He smiles back. She takes his hand, looking at him in appeal.
I don't want to be a Goddess. I just want to be loved like an ordinary girl.
Mr. Miller loves you. She stares at him, her face going blank with misery.
I found his notebook. It said I'd let him down.
Writers scribble all kinds of things. It doesn't mean anything. She looks at him, her eyes full of pain.
He wanted me to find it. It said he should never have married me. That I was unpredictable and a woman-child, flighty and self- centred. He's left me, Colin. Why do the people I love always leave me? She looks so wretched, so completely baffled, that COLIN responds with sudden passion.
I'll never leave you. She smiles and embraces him gratefully. She sighs.
All people ever see is Marilyn Monroe. As soon as they realise I'm not her, they run. He lies down next to her, taking her awkwardly in his arms. She sighs sleepily.
Boy, there's a lot of men in this business. And they all think you've got to sleep with them. She looks across at him, their faces inches apart.
You're not like that. That's why I like you. COLIN stares back at her guiltily. She smiles.
You should date that Wardrobe lady. She's pretty.
I don't want to.  I love you, Marilyn. She stares at him and tears gather in her eyes again. They stare intently at each other, their mood fragile, touched with both sensuality and a longing for something less tangible. MARILYN leans forward and kisses him gently. The embrace grows in passion and they kiss properly, hungrily. He kisses her eyes and her face and she sighs happily. He wants her more than he has wanted anything before.
What's the matter? Don't you want to make love?
Maybe we should just be friends.
Okay. Friends. She wraps herself around him, curling up so their bodies cradle each other like spoons in a cutlery draw. As she buries her head in his neck he feels her breasts against his back. She curls against him.
This is nice. Like spoons. I used to do this with Johnny.
Who's Johnny?
Johnny Hyde. My agent, back in the old days. He was thin, like you... Her voice is blurred and drifting with sleep. With her body warm against him COLIN's resolve nearly snaps but he is clear eyed now and determined.
Marilyn? She mutters softly in reply.
Do one thing for me? Come into the studio on time tomorrow and show everybody what you can do. Show Larry you're a great actress.
"I found a dream and lay in your arms the whole night through... I'm yours no matter what others may say or do... She has never sounded so happy or carefree. COLIN smiles.
Morning, boy.  Christ, you look rough. He looks at him thoughtfully, then shrugs.
Let me know when Marilyn arrives. If she ever does.
Oh, I'm pretty sure she'll be in this morning. OLIVIER gives COLIN an odd look.
"Your Grand Ducal Highness.."
"This is intolerable"!
"With the deepest respect, sir, my message was so important I had no choice but to intrude".
"Revolution?"
"No, sir, Miss Marina's aunt has been in a motor accident. The hospital is calling for her most urgently."
"What?  Oh, go away, you silly man."
"Miss Marina, your aunt... you realise how serious her condition is?"
"Well, it's her own fault. She has no right being out at this time of night. She's 93!" MARILYN is utterly adorable. The crew, COLIN, amongst them, can't take their eyes off her. OLIVIER glances at ORTON behind the camera. They have a good take and they know it.
Cut it there! MARILYN is as happy as we have ever seen her. She seeks out COLIN amongst the crowd and beams at him. Half the crew, including OLIVIER, notice the look. COLIN blushes self- consciously but we can feel his pride.
OLIVIER takes off his make-up. COLIN stands behind him with the end of day bottle of whisky. OLIVIER is in buoyant mood. It has been a good day.
Whatever it was you did to her, boy, keep doing it. OLIVIER grins slyly and COLIN doesn't bother to protest. The phone rings. OLIVIER picks it up.
Hello? His face falls as he listens to the voice at the other end of the line.
From the first moment all I have felt is Olivier's loathing and contempt. He thinks I'm unnecessary. Me, her drama coach, surrogate mother, nursemaid. On call 24 hours a day to help her act, dole out pills, bolster her ego, keep her sober enough to work. No me, no Marilyn. He is taken aback by her passion. She smiles bitterly then walks on. COLIN hesitates. She looks back briefly.
You can come up now.
You think I can act, don't you, Colin?
Of course I do. You were wonderful today. PAULA looks at MILTON, then moves between them busily.
Marilyn's tired now.
I want him to stay with me.
What would Arthur say if he knew Colin was here? A flicker of terror crosses MARILYN's face. COLIN turns on them angrily.
You heard what she said. She wants me here.
You have no idea of your position in the world, Marilyn. You are the greatest actress there's ever been. Not just actress. The greatest woman of this or any time. I love you like a daughter. COLIN is surprised to see tears in her eyes.
It's hard now, but believe me you will survive this and go on to better things. Your life is ahead of you. You're young, just beginning. Paula's love and sincerity are obvious. She means it. COLIN watches her in silence. MARILYN squeezes her hand and PAULA gets up with a heavy sigh, bitterly reluctant to leave. Finally she drags herself out, leaving them alone. As the door closes MARILYN curls herself up in the bed.
I'm so tired of feeling scared. Life is so shitty. I hate it. It hurts too much. COLIN looks at her, his heart breaking at her anguish.
I'm here now. I'll look after you. She gives him a wry look, teasing but thoughtful.
Good old Colin. Looking after me, looking after Larry, looking after Vivien. Always putting everyone before yourself. There is an edge to this. He gazes at her, shaken, but she smiles and touches his face gently. He gets on the bed, fully clothed, to fold her in his arms.
It hurts! It hurts, Colin! She is doubled up, clutching her stomach, sweating and frightened. COLIN sees a dark red stain on the sheets.
The baby. I can't lose the baby. COLIN looks at her aghast.
It's a surprise. For Arthur. Don't tell anyone. Promise me. He hurls himself off the bed and runs to the door.
MILTON and COLIN wait by the bathroom in Marilyn's suite. ROGER hurries in.
The doctor's coming. COLIN turns the handle but the bathroom door is locked.
Marilyn, unlock the door.
I won't. MILTON gives him a sharp look but he no longer cares about anything except Marilyn. There is a shuffling sound and the door is unlocked. At the same moment PAULA comes rushing in, hair awry, gown flapping, a wild look in her eye.
Marilyn! Marilyn, my baby, what has Colin done to you?
I haven't done anything. She's just... got a stomach ache. He reddens with embarrassment. ROGER coughs.
I think he means her monthlies.
What will Arthur say if she dies?
She's not dying, for Christ's sake. The HOUSEKEEPER now appears at the door with an elderly man at her side. He nods briskly.
I'm Dr. Connell. Is the patient in there?
Please save her... it's Marilyn Monroe. You can't let her die. CONNELL calmly extracts himself from her grasp.
Perhaps you'd all like to give us a little privacy? As COLIN shepherds the others out MILTON turns on him bitterly.
Happy now, kid?
Who's in charge here? MILTON, PAULA, ROGER and COLIN all step forward as one. CONNELL gives them a wry look and shrugs.
I've given Mrs. Miller an injection and the bleeding has stopped. She needs to stay in bed tomorrow but after that she'll be fine. I suggest someone stays with her. PAULA leans forward and almost snatches the prescription from his hand.
She'll be safe with me.
Well, goodnight then. COLIN holds the door open as he gets in.
Was she really pregnant?
I think that's a private matter between Mr and Mrs. Miller. He looks at COLIN with cool disapproval, then closes the door and drives off. COLIN stands watching, shivering in his shirtsleeves.
We have to say goodbye now, Colin. Arthur's on his way back. When this film is over I'm going to settle down and be a good wife to him. I'm going to learn to make Matzo ball soup as good as his dad's. She smiles wistfully at the fantasy.
We have to forget this ever happened.
I don't want to forget. He struggles then suddenly bursts out passionately.
Let me protect you from all this... She smiles sadly.
What do you want to do? Marry me?
Why not? You could come and live at my parents place. You'd love it. It's a castle, like in a fairy tale. We wouldn't even have to live together. You could have your own suite of rooms... He is close to tears, suddenly looking very young. She looks at him with a sad, sweet smile. He shakes his head stubbornly, taking her hand in passionate appeal.
You could quit. Forget Marilyn Monroe, forget Hollywood. Let it all go.
This is what I've worked for my whole life. I couldn't just give it all up.
Why not, when it drives you crazy? Her eyes widen in surprise. A flicker of nervous insecurity dulls her expression.
You think I'm crazy?
I didn't mean that. I just meant you could be happy.
I am happy. I got everything I ever dreamed about. She smiles tentatively, but he sees a terrible fear in her eyes. He looks down, realising with a cruel stab of pain that Olivier was right. There is no way back. She doesn't want to be rescued. He finally looks up, smiling despite the tears in his eyes.
Of course you're happy. You're a star. The biggest star in the world. She smiles, reassured. He drags himself off the bed and goes to the door, pausing for a second as he looks back.
You're right, Marilyn. We have to forget all this.
From now on I'm nobody. Just the third. You don't even know I exist. We'll never look at each other again. She giggles with some of her old playfulness.
Well, maybe just a wink. Once in a while. He smiles, looks at her just once more, and then goes out. As the door closes we see Marilyn's smile fade to be replaced by a bleak, frightened expression.
OLIVIER sits in front of his make-up mirror in his Grand Ducal uniform, smoothing down his hair with pomade. COLIN knocks and comes in.
They're ready for you on set, Sir Laurence.
Marilyn?
She's just arrived.
Only an hour late. Not bad by her standards. He smiles, then stands up, straightening his uniform.
Maybe we will finish this bloody film after all.
MARILYN turns to the assembled crew. A silence settles. She smiles around, blinking in the lights. She looks for comfort or support among the technicians but sees only blank faces or sullen hostility. She smiles nervously.
I hope you will all forgive me. It wasn't altogether my fault. I have been ill. She smiles up at their uneasy expressions, struggling to understand herself and their expectations of her.
I'd like you to remember I tried. This oddly moving and open confession is received in silence. No one quite knows how to react to her lacerating honesty. Perhaps they think it is just another performance.
"..I found a dream and lay in your arms the whole night through, I'm yours no matter what others may say or do. Be light of heart and fancy free, that's the way to start, there will be nothing to lose till you lose your heart.." She sings with touching delicacy, nailing it perfectly. There is pin drop silence on the set as the crew watch. COLIN is amongst them. It is a moment of almost unbearable poignancy for him. He suddenly realises that SYBIL THORNDIKE has crept up silently behind him to watch the scene. As he turns to her she smiles with infinite wisdom and compassion, murmuring softly so that only he can hear.
First love is such sweet despair, Colin. She touches his cheek gently and smiles, perhaps lost in a long ago memory of her own, before retreating quietly into the darkness at the back of the set.
- WATTIS and JEREMY SPENSER crossing the drawing room to the Grand Duke's bedroom... - WATTIS crosses the drawing room and knocks on a door... The process is hardly any easier but somehow the work is done, until we come to the final shot in the sequence -
Very quiet, studio! Going for a take. The big overhead lights switch on with a series of heavy clunks.
Camera running! Speed!
MARILYN looks up, in character as Elsie, her eyes glowing.
"My dear..."
"I've got a solemn word of warning for you."
"What's that, my beloved?"
"You know what's going to happen? I'm going to fall in love with you, because I always, always do." CLOSE on MARILYN as she smiles, her face radiating joy and vitality. And then, in the split second before ORTON calls `cut', MARILYN turns her head just a fraction and winks at Colin. He grins. OLIVIER looks up from the sofa, notices and smiles indulgently.
Cut! Okay boys and girls, that's a wrap! There is a smattering of applause from the crew. MARILYN leaves the stage.
If you'd all like to step this way, you'll find something I think you'll like. MILTON indicates a trestle table at one end of the studio, loaded with gaily wrapped parcels. He ushers the crew over.
A parting gift to each of you from Marilyn. Men on the left, ladies on the right.
There is a moment, then a WOMAN does the same with hers. Suddenly there is a rush for the bin as almost everyone dumps their present. The bin is soon overflowing. MILTON stares at the scene, then simply shrugs and walks out. ARTHUR JACOBS, utterly indifferent to the hostile undercurrent, grins and waves cheerfully.
It's been a lot of fun, kids. See you at the Academy Awards. He goes out, grabbing a discarded bottle of booze from the dustbin as he goes. COLIN watches all this in shocked silence. He looks at the label on his own small parcel, which reads simply "To Colin, with thanks, Marilyn".
Aren't you going to throw yours away?
Of course not. It's from Marilyn Monroe. He smiles. She shrugs and turns to leave.
 Lucy? She turns back to look at him.
I was wondering if you're doing anything this Saturday.
I'm washing my hair. He nods, accepting this as no more than he deserves. She goes but then stops to look back at him.
Did she break your heart?
 A little.
Good. It needed breaking. There is no malice in her response, just an awareness that he is older and wiser now, and perhaps a better man for the experience. He nods, accepting the rebuke.
 I might be free on Wednesday. COLIN smiles. She goes out. He looks down at Marilyn's present in his hands.
"You do look, my son, in a moved sort/As if you were dismay'd: be cheerful, sir./Our revels now are ended.
These our actors,/As I foretold you, were all spirits and/Are melted into air, into thin air...
Prospero.
 She's quite wonderful. No training, no craft, no guile, just pure instinct. Astonishing. He seems almost lost in awe. COLIN gazes at him in surprise.
You should tell her that.
Oh, I will. But she won't believe me. That's probably what makes her great. It's certainly what makes her so profoundly unhappy. He smiles wryly.
I tried my best to change her, but she remains brilliant despite me.  Directing a movie has to be just about the best job ever invented, but Marilyn has cured me of ever wanting to do it again. He signals to the projection box and the film stops as the lights come up.
And now I'm going back to the theatre. John Osborne is writing a piece for me.
I thought you hated all that Royal Court stuff.
You've done a good job, boy. Welcome to the circus. He goes out. COLIN looks back up at the projection box.
Run it again, please. The lights go down. MARILYN's face appears on the screen, laughing and happy. It is another sequence, the one where Marilyn does her sweet, uninhibited little dance (Scene 90), a performance both sexy and yet touchingly innocent. HOLD on COLIN for a long moment, gazing at her image in the darkness, then -
Buy a girl a drink? COLIN doesn't turn. He recognizes the voice and smiles.
Can I get another one of those please, Barry? BARRY for once is silent, pours a pint. The regulars try not to stare.
I didn't want to leave without saying goodbye.
The first time you saw this, all I had on was the radio. Colin opens the package. It's her copy of the script. On the first page she has written a message scrawled in ink: TO THE
Don't forget me.
As if I could.
Everyone else on the picture wishes they could.
Everyone else doesn't understand. She smiles, touched.
Be a gentleman and walk me to my car?
What's that for?
That's for being on my side; and remember, when you see me wink, that's for you. ROGER walks around the car and looks over at COLIN.
 Looking a couple of inches taller than when I first saw you. ROGER nods at COLIN (a silent salute suggesting job well done.) He gets into the car and we stay on COLIN as he watches it pull away. BARRY comes to the doorway of the pub.
Was that really Marilyn Monroe?
No - just a good friend of mine. BARRY walks back into the pub, leaving COLIN alone, staring at the vanishing car. And then the sun swallows it as it drives into the English countryside.
Any messages? THE SECRETARY pushes a piece of paper at him.
It's probably just someone having a joke. COLIN looks down at the message. There is a Los Angeles phone number and then the name - Marilyn Monroe.
 Did she say anything?
She just asked you to call. It is a joke, isn't it? COLIN stares down at the paper.
Probably.  Book a call as soon as you can. Los Angeles, California. Brentwood 1890.
The phone rings. He picks it up eagerly.
Your call to Los Angeles. We hear the crackle of the international line. He waits anxiously as the ringing continues.
ESTABLISH the luxurious exterior of Marilyn's comfortable Brentwood house.
The room is large and tasteful - white sofas and cushions and deep rugs. Picture windows look out onto the Hollywood hills. A white phone rings on the table. It rings continuously, insistently. It carries on ringing. No one comes. HOLD on the jangling phone. Each time it rings we think Marilyn might appear, but she never does. It carries on ringing, unanswered, in the empty room. As the picture fades we hear like a ghostly lament the sweet echo of Marilyn's voice singing the Sleeping Prince Waltz.
His gaze drifts up to a shelf stacked with film cans. He stands up and looks through them, blowing dust away; they have been here for a long time, ignored. He finds the one he is looking for - it says simply MM on the can. He takes the short reel of film and threads it through a Movieola in the corner of the room. He turns it on and bends to look. The screen bursts into life with an image of MARILYN at her most vital and captivating. It is a copy of some rushes from The Prince And The Showgirl, perhaps given to Colin by Olivier, or perhaps "borrowed" as a souvenir and long since forgotten. We see MARILYN dancing happily, exaggerating off camera, looking playful and sexy. She is radiant and full of life. After a moment she turns and looks off camera - perhaps to where Colin himself would have been standing - and winks happily. Blown up to the full size of the screen it is utterly sweet and charming. There is something so completely natural about the gesture COLIN feels he has been swept back seven years in time and MARILYN is standing in front of him again, in the flesh. It moves and delights him; perhaps he has never even really seen this clip before. At any rate he hasn't thought about it for years. It is MARILYN as he will always remember her, relaxed, affectionate and vital, a part of her, however tiny, forever his. She smiles, laughs at something, giggles in delight (without sound). She says something to an unseen crew member, then looks back, smiling at the camera.
