'Twas a long time ago, longer now than it seems, in a place that perhaps you've seen in your dreams.  For the story that you are about to be told, took place in the holiday worlds of old.  Now, you've probably wondered where holidays come from.  If you haven't, I'd say it's time you begun.
Boys and girls of every age Wouldn't you like to see something strange?
Come with us and you will see This, our town of Halloween
This is Halloween, everybody make a scene Trick or treat till the neighbors gonna die of fright It's our town, everybody scream In this town of Halloween
This is Halloween, this is Halloween Halloween! Halloween! Halloween! Halloween!
In this town we call home Everyone hail to the pumpkin song
In this town, don't we love it now? Everybody's waiting for the next surprise
Round that corner, man hiding in the trash can Something's waiting now to pounce, and how you'll scream
Aren't you scared?
Well, that's just fine Say it once, say it twice Take the chance and roll the dice Ride with the moon in the dead of night
Everybody scream, everybody scream
In our town of Halloween
I am the clown with the tear-away face Here in a flash and gone without a trace
I am the "who" when you call, "Who's there?" I am the wind blowing through your hair
This is Halloween, this is Halloween Halloween! Halloween! Halloween! Halloween! Halloween! Halloween!
That's our job, but we're not mean In our town of Halloween
In this town
Don't we love it now?
Skeleton Jack might catch you in the back And scream like a banshee Make you jump out of your skin This is Halloween, everybody scream Won't ya please make way for a very special guy Our man Jack is king of the pumpkin patch Everyone hail to the Pumpkin King now
This is Halloween, this is Halloween Halloween! Halloween! Halloween! Halloween!
La la-la la, Halloween! Halloween!
[applause]
Cackling
It's over!
We did it!
Wasn't it terrifying?
Great Halloween everybody.
I believe it was our most horrible yet!  Thank you everyone.
No, thanks to  you, Jack.  Without your brilliant leadership -
Not at all Mayor.
You're such a scream, Jack
You're a witch's fondest dream!
You made walls fall, Jack
Walls fall?  You made the very mountains crack, Jack
The deadly nightshade you slipped me wore off, Sally.
Let go!
You're not ready for so much excitement!
Yes I am!
You're coming with me!
No I'm not! [Sally pulls out the thread that's holding her arm on]
Come back here you foolish oaf!  Ow!
Thank you, thank you, thank you -- very much
Hold it!  We haven't given out the prizes yet!  Our first award goes to the vampires for most blood drained in a single evening. [applause]
A frightening and honorable mention goes to the fabulous Dark Lagoon leeches
Nice work, Bone Daddy.
Yeah, I guess so.  Just like last year and the year before that and the year before that.
Performed by Danny Elfman
Jack, I know how you feel.
Sally, you've come back.
I had to.
For this?
Yes.
Shall we then. That's twice this month you've slipped deadly nightshade into my tea and run off --
Three times!
You're mine you know!  I made you with my own hands.
You can make other creations.  I'm restless, I can't help it.
It's a phase my dear, it'll pass.  We need to be patient that's all.
But, I don't want to be patient.
bark
No Zero, not now.  I'm not in the mood.
bark
All right.  [giving Zero a rib from himself]  Here ya go boy.
Morning gents [to the band]
Jack, you home?
Jack?  I've got the plans for next Halloween.  I need to go over them with you so we can get started.
Jack, please, I'm only an elected an official here, I can't make decisions by myself.  Jack, answer me!!
He's not home.
Where is he?
He hasn't been home all night.
ooooo
Where are we?  It's someplace new.
bark bark
What is this?
[gasps]
bark bark
Whoa!!!!
Performed by Danny Elfman
The streets are lined with Little creatures laughing Everybody seems so happy Have I possibly gone daffy? What is this? What's this?
What's this? They're hanging mistletoe, they kiss Why that looks so unique, inspired They're gathering around to hear a story Roasting chestnuts on a fire What's this?
In here they've got a little tree, how queer And who would ever think And why?
Ho Ho Ho Ho ho ho ho ho
hmm..
This has never happened before.
It's suspicious.
It's peculiar.
It's scary.
Stand aside.
grrrr
Coming through.  We've got find Jack.  There's only 365 days left till next Halloween.
364!
Is there anywhere we've forgotten to check?
I looked in every mausoleum.
We opened the sarcophagi.
I tromped through the pumpkin patch.
I peeked behind the Cyclops's eye.  I did!  But he wasn't there.
It's time to sound the alarms.
Frog's breath will overpower any odor.  Bitter.  [coughing]  Worm's wart.  Where's that worm's wart?
Sally, that soup ready yet?
Coming....lunch
Ah, what's that?  Worm's wart, mmm, and...frog's breath.
What's wrong?  I-I thought you liked frog's breath.
Nothing's more suspicious than frog's breath. Until you taste it I won't swallow a spoonful.
I'm not hungry... [knocking spoon]  Oops!
You want me to starve.  An old man like me who hardly has strength as it is.  Me, to whom you owe your very life.
Oh don't be silly.  [eats soup with trick spoon]  Mmmm, see.  Scrumptious.
Did anyone think to dredge the lake?
Ah, this morning!
barks
Hear that?
What?
Shh!
barks
Zero!
Jack's back!
Where have you been?
Call a town meeting and I'll tell everyone all about it.
When?
Immediately!
[in his mayor truck] Town meeting, town meeting, town meeting tonight, town meeting tonight
[giggles as he hits Sally]
Listen everyone.  I want to tell you about Christmastown.
There are objects so peculiar They were not to be believed All around, things to tantalize my brain It's a world unlike anything I've ever seen And as hard as I try I can't seem to describe Like a most improbable dream But you must believe when I tell you this It's as real as my skull and it does exist Here, let me show you
A box? is it steel?
Are there locks?
Is it filled with a pox?
How delightful, a pox
If you please Just a box with bright-colored paper And the whole thing's topped with a bow
A bow? But why? How ugly What's in it? What's in it?
That's the point of the thing, not to know
It's a bat Will it bend?
Perhaps it s the head that I found in the lake
Listen now, you don't understand That's not the point of Christmas land
Oh, yes! Does it still have a foot?
Um, let me explain There's no foot inside, but there's candy Or sometimes it's filled with small toys
Do they bite?
Do they snap?
Or explode in a sack?
Or perhaps they just spring out And scare girls and boys
What a splendid idea This Christmas sounds fun I fully endorse it Let's try it at once
Everyone, please now, not so fast There's something here that you don't quite grasp Well, I may as well give them what they want And the best, I must confess, I have saved for the last For the ruler of this Christmas land Is a fearsome king with a deep mighty voice Least that's what I've come to understand
There's got to be a logical way to explain this Xmas thing.
You've poisoned me for the last time you wretched girl.
Oh my head...the door is open.
Hel-lo
Jack Skellington, up here my boy.
Dr. I need to borrow some equipment.
Is that so, whatever for?
I'm conducting a series of experiments.
How perfectly marvelous.  Curiosity killed the cat, you know.
I know.
Come on into the lab and we'll get you all fixed up.
Hmm.  Experiments?
Zero, I'm home.
Interesting reaction....but what does it mean?
You can come out now if you promise to behave.  Sally.  Sally.  Oooh!  Gone again!
Performed by Danny Elfman and Cast
Christmas time is buzzing in my skull Will it let me be? I cannot tell There's so many things I cannot grasp When I think I've got it, and then at last Through my bony fingers it does slip Like a snowflake in a fiery grip
Eureka!!  This year, Christmas will be ours!
Patience, everyone.  Jack has a special Job for each of us.  Dr. Finkelstein, your Xmas assignment is ready.  Dr. Finkelstein to the front of the line.
What kind of a noise is that for a baby to make?
Perhaps it can be improved?
No problem!
I knew it!  Dr. thank you for coming.  We need some of these. [showing picture of Santa and sleigh]
Hmm.. their construction should be exceedingly simple.  I think.
How horrible our Xmas will be.
No--how jolly.
[switches face] Oh, how jolly our Xmas will be.  [gets pelted]  What are you doing here?
Jack sent for us.
Specifically.
By name.
Lock
Shock
Barrel
Jack, Jack it's Oogie's boys!
Ah, Halloween's finest trick or treaters.  The job I have for you is top secret.  It requires craft, cunning, mischief.
And we thought you didn't like us, Jack. [giggles]
Absolutely no one is to know about it.  Not a soul.  Now-- [whispers to LS&B] And one more thing -- leave that no account Ooogie Boogie out of this!
Whatever you say, Jack.
Of course Jack.
Wouldn't dream of it Jack.
I wanna do it
Let's draw straws
Jack said we should work together Three of a kind
First, we're going to set some bait Inside a nasty trap and wait When he comes a-sniffing we will Snap the trap and close the gate
Wait! I've got a better plan To catch this big red lobster man Let's pop him in a boiling pot And when he's done we'll butter him up
Then Mr. Oogie Boogie Man Can take the whole thing over then He'll be so pleased, I do declare That he will cook him rare
I say that we take a cannon Aim it at his door And then knock three times And when he answers Sandy Claws will be no more
You're so stupid, think now lf we blow him up to smithereens We may lose some pieces And then Jack will beat us black and green
He'll be so pleased by our success That he'll reward us too, I'll bet
I wish my cohorts weren't so dumb
I'm not the dumb one
You're no fun
Shut up
Make me
I've got something, listen now This one is real good, you'll see We'll send a present to his door Upon there'll be a note to read Now, in the box we'll wait and hide Until his curiosity entices him to look inside
And then we'll have him One, two, three
Sandy Claws..hahaha
It goes something like this.  [Jingle bells] How about it?  Think you can manage?
Next!
Fantastic!  Now why don't you all practice on that and we'll be in great shape.  Sally, I need your help more than anyone's.
You certainly do, Jack.  I had the most terrible vision.
That's splendid.
No, it was about your Xmas.  There was smoke and fire.
That not my Xmas.  My Xmas is filled with laughter and joy and this--my Sandy Claws outfit.  I want you to make it.
Jack, please, listen to me--it's going to be a disaster.
How could it be--just follow the pattern.  This part is red, the trim is white.
It's a mistake, Jack.
Now don't be modest, who else is clever enough to make my Sandy claws outfit.
Next!
I have every confidence in you.
But it seems wrong to me, very wrong.
This device is called a nutcracker.
Perfect!  Open it up.  Quickly!
That's not Sandy Claws!
It isn't?
Who is it?
Bunny!
Not Sandy Claws...take him back!
We followed your instructions--
we went through the door--
Which door?  There's more than one.  Sandy Claws is behind the door shaped like this.
I told you!
Arr!!  [making scary face at LS&B]
I'm very sorry for the inconvenience, sir.  Take him home first  and apologize again.  Be careful with Sandy Claws when you fetch him.  Treat him nicely.
You will be a decided improvement over that treacherous Sally.
Master, the plans.
Excellent, Igor.
Performed by Danny Elfman and the Citizens of Halloween
This time, this time
Making Christmas
Making Christmas
Making Christmas, making Christmas Is so fine
It's ours this time And won't the children be surprised It's ours this time
Making Christmas
Making Christmas
Time to give them something fun
Let's have a cheer from everyone It's time to party
Making Christmas, making Christmas
Snakes and mice get wrapped up so nice With spider legs and pretty bows
All together, that and this
Here comes Jack
I don't believe what's happening to me My hopes, my dreams, my fantasies Hee, hee, hee, hee
Won't they be impressed, I am a genius See how I transformed this old rat Into a most delightful hat
Hmm, my compliments from me to you On this your most intriguing hat Consider though this substitute A bat in place of this old rat Huh! No, no, no, now that's all wrong This thing will never make a present It's been dead now for much too long Try something fresher, something pleasant Try again, don't give up
This time, this time
It's ours!
Making Christmas, making Christmas La, la, la It's almost here
'Cause when the full moon starts to climb We'll all sing out
It's Christmastime Hee, hee, hee
Kathleen, Bobby, Susie, yes, Susie's been nice.  Nice, nice, naughty, nice, nice, nice.  There are hardly any naughty children this year.
Now who could that be?
Huh?
You don't look like yourself Jack, not at all.
Isn't that wonderful.  It couldn't be more wonderful!
But you're the Pumpkin King.
Not anymore.  And I feel so much better now.
Jack, I know you think something's missing.  But --
Sorry
You're right, something is missing but what?  I've got the beard, the coat, the boots --
This time we really did!
He sure is big Jack!
And heavy!
Let me out!
Sandy Claws in person.  What a pleasure to meet you.  Why you have hands!  You don't have claws at all.
Where am I?
Surprised aren't you?  I knew you would be.  You don't need to have another worry about Xmas this year.
What?
Consider this a vacation Sandy,  a reward.  It's your turn to take it easy.
But there must be some mistake!
See that he's comfortable.  Just a second fellows.  Of course, that's what I'm missing.
But --
Thanks!  [took Sandy's hat]
You just can't...  Hold on where are we going now?
ho ho ho
This is worse than I thought, much worse.  I know...
Me?  On vacation on Xmas eve?
Where are we taking him?
Where?
To Oogie boogie, of course.  There isn't anywhere in the whole world more comfortable than that and Jack said to make him comfortable.  Didn't he?
Haven't you heard of peace on earth and good will toward men?
This'll stop Jack.
What a joy to think of all we'll have in common.  We'll have conversations worth having.
Don't do this.  Naughty children never get any presents.
I think he might be too big.
No he's not.  If he can go down a chimney, he can fit down here!
Well, well, well, what have we here? Sandy Claws, huh? Oh, I'm really scared So you're the one everybody's talkin' about, ha, ha
Ohhh
Ohhh
Ohhh
Ohhh, he's the Oogie Boogie Man
Release me now Or you must face the dire consequences The children are expecting me So please, come to your senses
You're jokin', you're jokin' I can't believe my ears Would someone shut this fella up I'm drownin' in my tears It's funny, I'm laughing You really are too much And now, with your permission I'm going to do my stuff
What are you going to do?
I'm gonna do the best I can
Release me fast or you will have to Answer for this heinous act
Oh, brother, you're something You put me in a spin You aren't comprehending The position that you're in It's hopeless, you're finished You haven't got a prayer 'Cause I'm Mr. Oogie Boogie And you ain't going nowhere
Think of us as you soar triumphantly through the sky outshining every star.  Your silhouette a dark blot on the moon, you who are our pride, you who are our glory, you who have frightened billions into an early grave.
You who have eh, devastated the souls of the living...
Oh no!  We can't take off in this!  The reindeer can't see an inch in front of their noses.
Whew!
This fog's as thick as, as...
Jelly brains
Thicker!
There go all of my hope, my precious plans, my glorious dreams.
[crying]  There goes Xmas.
barks
No Zero, down boy.  My what a brilliant nose you have.  The better to light my way!  To the head of the team, Zero!  We're off!
Wait Jack, no!
ho ho ha ha ha
Good bye Jack, my dearest Jack.  Oh how I hope my premonition is wrong.
Performed by Catherine O'Hara
ho ho ho ho ho ho he he he
Merry Xmas!  And what is your name?
uh uh
That's all right.  I have a special present for you anyway. There you go sonny.  Hohohohehehe
And what did Santa bring you honey?
Merry Xmas!
[ON PHONE] Hello, police. [frantic peanuts-type talk] Attacked by Xmas toys?  That's strange.  That's the second toy complaint we've had.
hohohohehehe
You're welcome one and all!
[on phone] Where'd you spot him? ---Fast as we can, ma'am ---Police ---I know, I know a skeleton ---Keep calm ---Turn off all the lights ---Make sure the doors are Locked ---Hello, police
Reports are pouring in from all over the globe that an impostor is shamelessly impersonating Santa Claus, mocking and mangling this joyous holiday.
[cheers]
Police assure us that this moment, military units are mobilizing to stop the perpetrator of this heinous crime.
[over the Newscaster] Jack, someone has to help Jack.  Where'd they take that Sandy Claws?
--Come back and save Xmas
Look Zero, search lights!
They're celebrating!  They're thanking us for doing such a good job.
Whoa, careful down there, you almost hit us.
bark
It's ok, Zero.  Head higher!
Are you a gamblin man, Sandy?  Let's play.
Mmmm.. my, my....what have we here?
[whispering]  I'll get you out of here.
Ah, lovely.  Tickle, tickle, tickle.  Tickle, tickle, tickle.
What?!?  You trying to make a dupe out of me?
Who's next on my list.  Ah, little Harry and Jordan.  Won't they be surprised.
They're trying to hit us!  ZERO!
Bark
Merry Xmas to all and to all a good night...
howl!
I knew this Xmas thing was a bad idea.  I felt it in my gut.  Terrible news folks.  The worst tragedy of our times.  Jack has been blown to smithereens.  Terrible, terrible news.
[in car] Attention, attention citizens.  Terrible news.  There's still no sign of Santa Claus.  Although the impostor has been shot down, it looks like Xmas will have to be canceled this year.  I repeat the impostor has been shot down but there's still no sign ......
Performed by Danny Elfman
You wait till Jack hears about this.  By the time he's through with you, you'll be lucky if you...
The king of Halloween has been blown to smithereens.  Skeleton Jack is now a pile of dust.
[gasp]
Come on Zero.  Xmas isn't over yet!
What's that you were saying about luck, rag doll?
Help, help, help, help
Sandy, looks like it's Oogie's turn to boogie.
[scream]
one 2 3 4 5 6 7 -- hahaha
This can't be happening!
Ashes to ashes, and dust to dust.  Oh, I'm feeling weak...with hunger. One more roll of the dice oughta do it.  Haha [rolls dice] What!  Snake eyes.  [bang on table] Eleven!  Haha  looks like I won the jackpot! Bye bye doll face and sandman. Ha, ha, ha [about to dump Sally & Sandy Claus into the lava] What the...
Hello Oogie
Jack, but they said you were dead.  You must be double dead. Well come on bone man.
bark bark
oooo ooo ooo.  Pull an arm.  ha ha
Jack look out!
So long, Jack.  haha
How dare you treat my friends so shamefully.
Now look what you've done.  My bugs, my bugs, my bugs, bye bye bye
Forgive me Mr. claws, I'm afraid I've made a terrible mess of your holiday.
Bumpy sleigh ride, Jack?  The next time you get the urge to take over someone else's holiday, I'd listen to her!  She's the only one who makes any sense around this insane asylum! Skeletons....
I hope there's still time--
To fix Xmas?  Of course there is, I'm Santa Claus!
He'll fix things Jack.  He knows what to do.
How did you get down here Sally?
Oh, I was trying to, well, I wanted to, to --
to help me
I couldn't just let you just...
Sally, I can't believe I never realized...that you...
Jack, Jack!
Here he is!
Alive!
Just like we said.
Grab a hold my boy!
Good news, folks.  Santa Claus, the one and only has finally been spotted.  Old Saint Nick appears to be traveling at supersonic speed. He's setting things right, bringing joy and cheer wherever he goes.  Yes folks, Kris Kringle has pulled it out of the bag and delivered Xmas to excited children all over the world!
Performed by Danny Elfman, Catherine O'Hara, and the Citizens of Halloween
La, la, la, Jack's OK, and he's back, OK
Jack is back now, everyone sing In our town of Halloween
It's great to be home!
Hohohohoho Happy Halloween!
Merry Xmas!
What's this?
What's this?
I haven't got a clue
What's this?
Why it's completely new
What's this?
Must be a Christmas thing
What's this?
It's really very strange
This is Halloween Halloween! Halloween! Halloween!
What's this? 
Careful, my precious jewel!
My dearest friend, if you don't mind I'd like to join you by your side Where we can gaze into the stars
