An impressive collection. You have some very rare editions here. Sure you want to sell them all? (Dean Corso, a tall, lean, rather unkempt man in his 30's. Steel-rimmed glasses, crumpled old tweed jacket, worn cords, scuffed brown oxfords. He replaces a book on a shelf. Standing beside him is the old woman's son, a middle-aged man with a puffy red face. Her daughter-in-law looks on, one hand cupping her elbow, the fingers of the other playing avidly with her lower lip. The son is cuddling a large Scotch on the rocks like it's an integral part of his anatomy.
They're no use to Father, not anymore -not now he's passed away. His library was his own little world. Now it's just a painful memory for Mother here. Daughter-in-law Unbearably painful. Corso Corso Well, at a rough, preliminary estimate, you have a collection here worth around two hundred thousand dollars. Daughter-in-Law  Two hundred thousand?! Corso Or thereabouts.
How much were you thinking of... Corso Hmm... I couldn't go higher than four grand - four-and-a-half tops.
 You here? You didn't waste much time. Corso Hello, Witkin. There's a small fortune in there.  Help yourself. Witking  You're a vulture, Corso. Corso Who isn't in our business? Witkin You'd stoop to anything. Corso For a 'Quixote' by Ybarra? You bet I would. Witkin Unscrupulous, thoroughly unscrupulous! Corso  Good hunting!
Witkin just called me. He's spitting blood. Corso What's his problem? Bernie  He says you're a double-dealing, money grubbing bastard. He says he had that sale tied up, and now you've queered his pitch. Corso  He should be quicker off the mark.  May I? Bernie Your valuation was way over the odds it's brought those people out In a rash. They're now asking twice what the books are worth.  He's talking about suing you. Well, let's face it you screwed him. That's what it's called. Corso I know what it's called. Bernie Sonofabitch, you're the best in the business. Definitely. Corso And the most expensive.  That client of yours, the Swiss, is he still interested in this edition? Bernie Sure, but Witkin will blow a fuse. I told him I had nothing to do with this operation. Corso Nothing except your ten percent. Bernie Twenty. The Swiss is my client, remember. Corso  No deal. Bernie Fifteen.  For my children's sake. Corso You don't have any. Bernie I'm still young. Give me time. Corso  Ten.
Relevant information may be found in Antoine Martin del Rio's 'Disquisitionum Magicarum', Louvain 1599, and earlier, in 1580, in 'De la d'monomanle des sorciers' by the Frenchman, Jean Bodin...
Bodin was probably the first to attempt to establish a system - if the term system may be applied to the Middle Ages - for classifying the contemporary perceptions of evil. In Bodin we find one of the first definitions of the word 'witch'. I quote 'A witch is a person who, though cognizant of the laws of God, endeavors to act through the medium of a pact with the Devil...'
I see you enjoyed my little talk, Mr. Corso. Corso Did I snore? Balkan Nice of you to ask. No, not that I noticed. Shall we go?  Don't you sleep nights? Corso Like a baby. Balkan Strange, I'd have bet a brace of Gutenberg Bibles you spend half the night with your eyes peeled. You're one of those lean, hungry, restless types that put the wind up Julius Caesar - men who'd stab their friends in the back.  Not, I suspect, that you have many friends, do you, Mr. Corso? Your kind seldom does. Corso  Go to hell. Balkan You're right, of course. Your friendships don't concern me in the least. Our relations have always been strictly commercial, isn't that so? There's no one more reliable than a man whose loyalty can be bought for hard cash. Corse Hey, Balkan, I came here to do some business, not shoot the breeze. You want to expound your personal philosophy, write another book. Balkan You don't like me, do you? Corso I don't have to like you. You're a client, and you pay well.
Well? Corso Yup. Balkan You're privileged, Corso. Very few people have ever set foot in here. This is my private collection. Some bibliophiles specialize in Gothic novels, others in Books of Hours. All my own rare editions have the same protagonist the Devil. Corso May I take a look? Balkan That's why I brought you here.  The Ars Diavoli! You'll never see as many books on the subject anywhere else in the world. They're the rarest, the choicest editions in existence. It has taken me a lifetime to assemble them. Only the supreme masterpiece was missing. Come.
'The Nine Gates of the Kingdom of Shadows... Balkan You're familiar with it? Corso Sure. Venice, 1623. The author and printer was Aristide Torchia, burned by the Holy Inquisition, together with all his works. Only three copies survived. Balkan One. Corso The catalogs list three copies surviving in private ownership the Fargas, the Kessler, and the Telfer. Balkan True. You've done your homework, but you're wrong nonetheless. According to all the sources I myself have consulted, only one is authentic. The author confessed under torture that he'd hidden one copy. Only one. Corso Well, three are known. Balkan That's the trouble. Corso Where did you get it? Balkan I bought it from Telfer. Corso Telfer? Balkan  Yes, he finally sold it to me. The day before he killed himself. Corso Good timing. Balkan Nemo pervenit qui non legitime certaverit. Corso You only succeed if you fight by the rules? Balkan More or less. Ever heard of the 'Delomelanicon'? Corso Heard of it, yes. A myth, isn't it? Some horrific book reputed to have been written by Satan himself. Balkan No myth. That book existed. Torchia actually acquired it.  The engravings you're now admiring were adapted by Torchia from the 'Delomelanicon'. They're a form of satanic riddle. Correctly interpreted with the aid of the original text and sufficient inside information, they're reputed to conjure up the Prince of Darkness in person. Corso You don't say. Balkan Are you a religious man, Corso? I mean, do you believe in the supernatural? Corso I believe in my percentage. I also believe that books grow old and decay like the rest of us. Don't you get dizzy, standing there?  What the hell do you want from me, Balkan? Balkan I want you to go to Europe and play the detective. The other two copies are in Portugal and France. You must find some way of comparing them with mine every page, every engraving, the binding - everything. I'm convinced that only one can be authentic, and I want to know which one it is. Corso Could be an expensive trip. Balkan That's to get you started. Spend what you need. Corso What if I find your copy's a forgery? Balkan It's quite on the cards. Corso Really? It doesn't appear to be. Even the paper sounds kosher. Balkan Even so. There may be something wrong with it. Corso  Balkan Don't be flippant.  'There are more things in heaven and earth than are dreamt of in your philosophy.' Corso Hamlet believed in ghosts, not demons. Balkan If all three copies turn out to be bogus or incomplete, your work will be done. If one of them proves to be genuine, on the other hand, I'll finance you further.  I shall want you to get it for me at all costs, never mind how. Corso Never mind how sounds illegal. Balkan It wouldn't be the first time you've done something illegal. Corso Not that illegal. Balkan Hence the size of the check. Do a good job, and I'll double it.  Be careful, Corso. Corso What do you mean?  With this? Balkan Just be careful.
Mrs. Telfer?  Dean Corso. Sorry to trouble you at a time like this. (Liana comes over and sits down on a sofa, motioning Corso into the armchair that faces it over a coffee table. She puts his card down, crosses her legs, and waits. Corso sits down with his bag between his feet. Opening it, he produces 'The Nine Gates'. Liana stiffens at the sight of it.
It would be very helpful, ma'am, if you could tell me what you know about this book.
Isn't this one of my husband's books? Corso Right. It was in his collection until very recently. He sold it to a client of mine. I'm trying to authenticate it. Liana He sold it, you say? How strange. It was one of his most treasured possessions. Corso He never mentioned the sale? Liana No. It's news to me. Who bought it? Corso A private collector. Liana May I know his name? Corso I'm afraid that's confidential. Liana I suppose he has a bill of sale? Corso No problem there. Liana Is this your job, authenticating rare books? Corso And tracking them down. Liana  You're a book detective. Corso  Kind of.  Do you recall when and where your husband acquired this book? Liana In Spain. We were vacationing at Toledo. Andrew got very excited -- paid a great deal of money for it. He was a fanatical collector. Corso So I gather. Liana I'll show you.
Look.
Magnificent...  Really magnificent...
Andrew used to spend many hours in here.Too many. Corso Did he ever try it out?
I don't understand. Corso The book - did he ever use it to perform some kind of ritual intended to... well. produce a supernatural effect? Liana Are you serious? Corso Absolutely. Liana A Black Mass, you mean? Corso More or less. An attempt to conjure up the Devil. Liana Andrew was a trifle eccentric, Mr. Corso, but he wasn't insane. It's true he'd been acting strangely those last few days. He shut himself up in here - seldom emerged except for meals.  That morning I was woken by the screams of the maid he'd hanged himself.  Whatever he was up to, I certainly can't see him chanting mumbo-jumbo or trying to raise the dead.
The Devil, Mrs. Telfer. This book is designed to raise the Devil.
Sic Luceat Lux ... Thus let the light shine...
 Hey, you!
Son of a bitch... Where did you get this? Corso Balkan. He wants me to research it. Bernie Balkan owns a 'Nine Gates'? Corso Recently acquired from the late lamented Andrew Telfer. Bernie Trust Balkan. What does he need you for? I don't suppose he plans to sell it. Corso He wants me to compare it with the other two surviving copies in Portugal and France. I'm off to Europe. Bernie Compare it? Corso Yeah. Only one of the three is authentic, he says. Bernie Well, this one looks genuine enough. Must be worth a million. Jesus! Take good care of it. Corso That's why I'm here. I need you to stash it for me. I'm starting to see things. Bernie Like what? Corso Uninvited visitors, unfamiliar faces. I don't trust anyone, not even Balkan.  Come to think of it, I don't even trust you. Bernie That's mean, buddy. You know I'd never screw you without a damn good reason money, women, business. Anything else, you can relax. Corso You'll answer for this with your balls, Bernie. Bernie  Sure, man, sure. You can castrate me personally. Corso I'll pick it up on my way to the airport. Bernie No problem.  'Virtue lies vanquished', huh? These engravings are terrific. Corso  Or horrific, whichever. Bernie Beautiful, just beautiful...
May I come in? Corso Allow me.
Thank you. Corso Sit down, won't you? Liana I've come to talk business. Corso Great. Everyone's talking business to me lately. Liana Yesterday, when you came to see me about that book, I was too surprised to react as I should have done. I mean, it really was one of Andrew's favorites. Corso So you said. Liana I'd like to get it back. Corso That could be a problem. Liana Not necessarily. it all depends. Corso On what? Liana On you. Corso I don't understand, Mrs. Telfer. The book isn't mine to dispose of. Liana You work for money, I take it? Corso What else? Liana I have a great deal of money. Corso I'm happy for you. Liana You could stage a theft. I'm sure your client is well insured. Corso I'm a professional, ma'am. Liana You're a professional mercenary. Mercenaries work for the highest bidder. Corso I make a living. Liana  I could throw in a bonus. Corso This has happened before someplace. Liana I know. In the movies. Corso And she had an automatic in her stocking top.
No automatic.
Want one? Liana Why not?
Well, where is it? Corso Where's what? Liana Don't fuck with me, Corso. Corso I thought that's what we were doing.
Hey, look, be reasonable...
 Hi, this is Bernie's Rare Books. I'm not available right now. If you want to leave a message, please speak after the beep. Corso  Bernie, you there? Bernie? Pick up!
Bernie?
Jesus Christ!
Thanks, man. I'm sorry...
Si! Si, mama!!!
Senor. Corso Buenas tardes. Pedro Buenes tardes. Pablo Buenas tardes.
You speak English?  I'd appreciate your opinion on this.
'The Nine Gates...' A superb edition. Very rare. Pedro  The Telfer copy. Corso You used to own it, right? Pedro We used to, yes. Pablo We sold it. Pedro We sold it when the opportunity presented itself. It was too... Pablo too good to miss. An excellent sale. Pedro An excellent buy - impeccable condition. Pablo Impeccable. You are the present owner? Corso A client of mine. Pablo  I would never have believed she would part with it. Corso She? Pablo  Senora Telfer.
I understood it was Mr. Telfer that bought it. Pablo He paid for it. Pedro It was the senora who made him buy it. He did not seem particularly... Pablo ...interested. Pedro A superb specimen. Corso  Could it be a forgery? Pedro You heard that, Pablo? Pablo I took you for a professional, senor. You speak too lightly of forgeries. Pedro Far too lightly. Pablo Forging a book is expensive. Paper of the period, the right inks....  Too expensive to be profitable.
I'm aware of all that, but could some part of it be forged? Restorers have been known to replace missing pages with pages taken from another copy of the same edition. Have you never done that yourselves?
Of course it can be done. Pablo It requires great skill, naturally, but yes, it can be done. Corso Couldn't that be the case here? Pablo What makes you ask? Corso My client wishes to satisfy himself of the book's authenticity.  His name is Balkan. Boris Balkan of New York.
All books have a destiny of their own. Pablo Even a life of their own. Senor Balkan is a noted bibliophile. He's no fool. He must know this book is authentic. Pedro We know it. Pablo So must he. Pedro This book was with us for years. Pablo Many years. Pedro We had ample opportunity to examine it thoroughly. The printing and binding are superb examples of 17th century Venetian craftsmanship.  Finest rag paper, resistant to the passage of time! None of your modern wood pulp! Pablo Watermarks, identical shades, ink, type faces... If this is a forgery, or a copy with pages restored, it's the work of a master. Pedro A master. Corso Did you study the engravings? They seem to form a kind of riddle.
Well, yes...  Books of this type often contain little puzzles. Pedro Especially in the case of such an illustrious collaborator.
Collaborator? Pedro You cannot have proceeded very far with your research. Come, look closely.
Don't you see? Only seven of the engravings were signed by Aristide Torchia. Corso And the other two? Pedro This is one of them. Look. Corso 'L.F.'? Who's that? Pedro Think. Corso Lucifer? Pedro You're a clever man, senor. Torchia was not alone when they burned him alive. Corso But that's absurd! You don't honestly believe... Pedro The man who wrote this did so in alliance with the Devil and went to the stake for it. Even Hell has its heroes, senor.
 Hi. Corso I've seen you before, haven't I? Girl Have you? Corso Yes, somewhere.
Are you traveling in this car? Corso The next one. Girl The sleeper.  I travel on the cheap. Corso Are you a student? Girl Something like that.  I like trains. Corso Me too. What's your name? Girl Guess. Corso  Greeneyes. Girl That'll do. What's yours? Corso Corso. Girl Strange name. Corso Italian. it means 'I run'. Girl You don't look like a runner to me - more the quiet type.
Well, have a good trip. Girl And you.
See you around, maybe. Corso Maybe.
Yes? Corso Dean Corso, Mr. Fargas.  How do you do. Fargas Corso, ah yes. Please come in.
Home, sweet home!  You won't say no to a brandy, I take it?
Thanks.  Handsome glasses. Fargas These are the only ones I have left. Corso Must have been a beautiful place. Fargas It was, but old families are like ancient civilizations they wither and die.  There they are, eight hundred and thirty-four of them. A pity you didn't see them in better times, in their bookcases. I used to have five thousand. These are the survivors. Corso So this is the Fargas collection. Not quite as I imagined it. Fargas C'est la vie, my friend. But I keep them in perfect condition, safe from damp, light, heat and rats. I dust and air them every day. it's all I do do, in fact. Corso What happened to the rest? Fargas Sacrificed in a good cause. I had to sell them to preserve the others. Five or six books a year. Almost all the proceeds go to the state in taxes. Corso Why don't you sell up? Fargas Sell the Fargas family estate? It's obvious you're an American, my friend. There are things you can't be expected to understand. Corso Look at this, Poliphilo, for example a real gem! Fargas  Corso What about 'The Nine Gates'? Fargas  What about it? Corso That's why I'm here.. I told you on the phone. Fargas The phone?  Well, what do you think? Corso Not bad. Fargas Not bad indeed. These I will never sell. At least ten of them are exceedingly rare. Look, Plancy's 'Dictionary of Hell', First Edition, 1842, Leonardo Fioravanti's 'Compendi di Secreti' of 1571... But this is what interests you, no?  There it is, in perfect condition. It has traveled the world for three-and-a-half centuries, yet it might have been printed yesterday. Corso Is it in order? You haven't detected anything unusual? Fargas Unusual? No. The text is complete, the engravings too. Nine plus the title page, just as the catalogs state - just like the Kessler in Paris and the Telfer in New York. Corso It isn't the Telfer anymore. Telfer killed himself, but he sold his copy to Balkan first. Fargas Balkan... If he sets his heart on a book, no price is too high. It's strange he should have sent you here, if he already...  You see? If it weren't for this slight discoloration on the back of my copy, one couldn't tell them apart. Corso If it's all right with you, I'd like to stay awhile and study them in detail. Fargas  What are you looking for, Mr. Corso? Corso I wish I knew. Fargas Some books are dangerous. Not to be opened with impunity. Corso Very true.
 Now we're getting somewhere
Hi. You didn't say you were bound for Sintra. Girl Neither did you. Corso What are you doing here? Girl Reading. Corso I can see that. Girl And bumping into people unexpectedly. Corso Unexpectedly is right. Girl Are you on a business trip?  Is that why you always carry that thing around? Corso (doesn't answer, adjusts his glasses. He looks at the book she has. She hands it to him. We see the title 'The Devil in Love' by Jacques Cazotte) You like Gothic novels? Girl I like books. I never travel without one. Corso Been traveling long? Girl Ages. Corso You said you were a student? Girl Did I?  So I am. In a way. Hotel Porter Excuse me, senor. Phone call. Corso  For me? Are you sure? Hotel Porter Si, senor. Corso Yes? Balkan Mr. Corso? Corso  Balkan? How did you find me? Balkan Made any progress? Corso Progress? You could call it that. Balkan Well? Corso I've examined the Fargas copy. It's authentic. At least it looks that way. Like yours. But there are discrepancies. Balkan Discrepancies? Corso In the engravings. Like keys in different hands, doorways open in one copy and bricked up in the other. Balkan I see. Corso And there's another thing. Balkan Yes? Corso The ones that differ are ail signed 'LF'. Seems like some kind of riddle.  Are you still there? Where are you, anyway? Balkan I think you'd better get it for me. Corso The old man wouldn't sell it to save his life - he said as much.  Balkan?
 Just a minute. (He rolls out of bed and wraps the bedspread around his waist. Then he opens the door and stands there, a tousled figure with Liana's teeth marks clearly visible on his chest. The girl stands outside his door. Girl You left your phone off the hook. Corso Jesus... What time is it? Girl Early, but you have to go. Corso  Go where, for God's sake? Girl The Fargas place. Corso Fargas? I already saw Fargas. Girl I think you should see him again. Corso What is this, a practical joke? Who the hell are you? What do you know about Fargas? Girl Better get dressed. I'll wait for you downstairs.
Don't bother. He isn't there. Corso  Really. So where is he? Girl Over there.
 God Almighty! Girl You want to get inside?
Wait here. (he enters the house and reaches the drawing room. His foot crunches on something as he crosses it on his way to the rug on which the occult books were stacked it's the remains of one of Fargas' treasured brandy glasses. He pauses long enough to identify it, then walks on. The books are lying scattered across the rug no sign of 'The Nine Gates') Shit! Shit, SHIT!!!
Well, did you find it? Corso You know too damned much. More than I do. Why do you keep following me around? What are you, a groupie or something? IRS, CIA, Interpol? Who are you working for? Girl You're wasting time, asking all these questions. We'd better get out of here. There's a flight from Lisbon to Paris at noon. We should just make it. Corso What's with the 'we'? Girl There are two of us, aren't there?
Somebody's playing a game with me. Girl  Of course. You're a part of it. Corso What exactly happened back there? Girl Fargas caught someone stealing, I guess. Corso And what do you guess happened to him? Girl He drowned. Corso With a little help from who? Girl  He's dead. Who cares? Corso I care. I could wind up the same way. Girl Not with me around to take care of you. Corso I see. You're my guardian angel. Girl Something like that.
Hello, Gruber. Gruber We don't have any vacancies, but I'm sure I'll be able to organize something. Corso Thank you, Gruber. Gruber Thank you, sir.
Monsieur? Corso The Kessler Foundation. She jerks her head in the direction of an old-fashioned elevator like a gilded cage.
Dean Corso. I have an appointment with Baroness Kessler. Secretary You have thirty minutes.
Mr. Corso? Come in. I've heard a great deal about you. Corso Nothing good, I hope. Baroness You hope right.
 Baroness Yes, there it is the Kessler Collection. Corso Very impressive too. I know your catalog almost by heart. Baroness Strange we haven't met before. Your name is a byword among dealers and collectors but I imagine you know your own reputation better than I do. Corso It keeps the wolf from the door.  Were you in the middle of something? Baroness My latest work 'The Devil History and Myth' - a kind of biography. It will be published early next year. Corso Why the Devil? Baroness I saw him one day. I was fifteen years old, and I saw him as plain as I see you now cutaway, top hat, cane. Very elegant, very handsome. It was love at first sight. Corso Three hundred years ago they'd have burned you at the stake for saying that. Baroness Three hundred years ago I wouldn't have said it.  What is it you wish to discuss, Mr. Corso? Corso It's 'The Book of the Nine Gates of the Kingdom of Shadows'. Baroness  The Nine Gates? An interesting work. Everyone's been asking about it lately. Corso  Really? Baroness You really believe in the Devil, Baroness? Baroness Enough to devote my life and my library to him, not to mention many years of work. Don't you? Corso Everyone's been asking me that lately. Baroness This book demands a certain amount of faith. Corso My faith is in short supply.
I know this book extremely well. I studied it for years. Corso Do you have any doubts about its authenticity? Baroness None whatever. Corso You're sure? Baroness My knowledge of this book is profound. I wrote a biography of its author. Corso Aristide Torchia? Baroness A courageous man. He died for the sake of this very book in 1623. He had spent many years in Prague, a centre of the occult. While there he studied the black arts and acquired a copy of the dread 'Delomelanicon'. This is his adaptation of that work, which was written by Lucifer himself. After they burned him at the stake, a secret society was founded to perpetuate its memory and preserve its secrets the Brotherhood. Corso The Brotherhood? Baroness Yes, a kind of witches' coven. For centuries they have met to read from this book and worship the Prince of Darkness. Today they've degenerated into a social club for bored millionaires. I myself belonged to the Brotherhood many years ago, but time is too precious at my age. I told them to go to the Devil. She laughs at her own little joke. Corso They still meet? Baroness Every year. Corso And you say they read from this book? Baroness No, I took mine back when Liana Telfer acquired the one in Toledo. Victor Fargas is an unbeliever - he has always refused to participate, so naturally they use the Telfer copy. Not that it has ever worked.  They never do, to be honest. Corso So Andrew Telfer never took part? Baroness Never. He knew nothing of these activities until that creature Liana de Saint-Damien married him for money. She used his dollars to buy the book and renovate her chateau. An old and aristocratic family, the Saint-Damiens, but penniless. They have dabbled in witchcraft for hundreds of years. Corso Telfer hanged himself last week. Baroness I see. And Fargas? Corso He was alive the last time we spoke. Baroness When was that? Corso Two days ago. Baroness Who exactly are you working for, Mr. Corso? Corso My client's name is irrelevant, Baroness. I'm simply trying to authenticate his copy - the one Telfer sold him before he died. Baroness  How stupid of me! I should have guessed!  You've outstayed your welcome, Mr. Corso. Corso I was hoping to examine your copy in detail. Baroness Certainly not. Tell your client, who can only be Boris Balkan, to come and examine it himself - if he dares. Tell him not to send any more wolves in sheeps' clothing. And now, kindly leave.  You don't know what you're getting yourself into, Mr. Corso. Get out before it's too late. Corso I'm afraid it already is, Baroness. Baroness Some books are dangerous, and this is one. Corso  So people keep telling me. Thanks for your time.
Hey, he's getting away!
They're broken. You should be more careful.
When did you learn all that? Girl What? Corso That stuff. Girl  Oh, ages ago. Corso No shit.
I need a favor, Gruber. Gruber Certainly, Mr. Corso. Corso Liana Telfer, maiden name Saint-Damien. Thirtyish, blond, dishy. Probably accompanied by a big man with a Clark Gable mustache.  I want to know if they're staying at some hotel here in Paris. Gruber It could take a little time. Corso Of course. Start with the five-stars. They're the best bet. Gruber Very good, sir.  Are you feeling all right? Corso I've felt better. Thanks, Gruber. Let me know if you locate them.
Here, hold this against your neck and lie back.  Like to tell me what's going on? Girl  Someone's after your book. Corso They didn't have to kill Fargas to get it. They didn't have to mutilate his copy, either. They tore out the engravings and ditched the rest. There's got to be more to it than that. Girl Do you believe in the Devil, Corso? Corso I'm being paid to. Do you? Girl  I'm a bit of a devil myself...
 Would you know a devil if you saw one?
Do you have a photocopier back there? Clerk Er, yes, monsieur. Corso May I use it? Clerk Are you a guest, monsieur? Corso You mean I don't look like one? Clerk Of course, monsieur. This way, monsieur. Corso Room 35. And get them to send up breakfast for two.
Bonjour, monsieur. Votre petit djeuner. Corso Oh. Sure.
Where is she? Waiter Pardon? Corso Madame, ou elle est? Waiter Je ne sais pas, m'sieur.
Yes? Balkan Come down. I'm in the cafe across the street.
You sure as hell get around.  Un caf noir, s'il vous plait.
Problems? Corso Yeah, like someone tried to total me a couple times. Aside from that, three people have died on me since I took this job.  Well, two. Telfer was dead already. Balkan I don't follow you. Corso It's simple enough. You give me 'The Nine Gates' and they start dropping like flies. I'm thinking of giving it back. Balkan Who are you talking about? Corso My pal Bernie Feldman, for one. Balkan The book dealer? He's dead? Corso Murdered. He was holding your book for me. Someone was after it. He wouldn't give it to them.
Poor fellow. Very creditable of him. Corso Then there's Fargas.
What about Fargas? Corso Dead too. Balkan How do you know? Corso I saw him - and his copy, or what was left of it. Someone had snatched the engravings and tried to burn the rest. Balkan How tragic. What about the Kessler copy? Corso The old woman says it's authentic, but I didn't get a chance to look at it closely. As soon as she guessed you were behind my visit she threw me out. You aren't her flavor of the month. Balkan You must see her again. You must get me that copy  or examine it, at least. Corso  Are you kidding? I'd have to be the Invisible Man. Balkan Try this.
Merci, Simone.
Blackmail doesn't entitle you to smoke in my library, Mr. Corso.
'I will recognize your servants, my brethren, by the sign that adorns some part of their body, a scar or mark of your making...'
Baroness?
 Just keep going. Corso  What are you playing at? Girl See those men talking with your friend Gruber?  Police. Corso  Girl You look better without that old bag and coat of yours. They didn't do anything for you. Corso Gruber? It's me, Corso. Can you talk? Gruber No, sir. Corso But you can listen? Gruber Certainly, sir. Corso I'd like you to do something for me.
You don't have it? Gruber There was nothing in the place you described, sir. I'm sorry. Corso Goddamit!  I suppose you didn't take it? Girl You still don't trust me, do you? Gruber I think I may have the answer, sir. Someone visited your room earlier on, while my young colleague was on duty your wife. Corso My wife? I don't have any wife. Gruber That's what I told him. Corso Could he describe her? Gruber  Thirtyish, blond, dishy. Corso Liana... Gruber Which reminds me, sir the lady and gentleman you mentioned - they're staying at the Hotel Crillon, Suite 236-238. Corso Good for you, Gruber. Thanks a lot. Gruber Always glad to be of service, Mr. Corso. Corso I owe you one for those cops, too. Gruber Ah yes, sir. Interpol. Corso Interpol! What exactly did they want? Gruber They expressed an interest in your whereabouts. Corso And? What did you tell them? Gruber That you were out. Corso Anything else? Gruber They asked if I knew whether you had recently visited Portugal. Corso And? Gruber I said that our guests do not make a habit of providing us with their itineraries. Corso For what it's worth, Gruber, I don't know what they think I've done, but I'm innocent. Gruber  Naturally, Mr. Corso. All our guests are.
What'll you do when you see them? Corso  Hide behind you, probably.
Downstairs, quick!
C'mon. Better grab a cab or we'll lose them.
Damn!
They're going!
Bastard!
Coming?
Couldn't you have pinched something a bit less conspicuous? Girl Don't be so picky. Most people would give their eyeteeth for a ride in this.
We can't sit on their tail forever. They're bound to smell a rat.
How do I look? Corso You look like a million. A million barrels of oil.
Sit tight!
 C'mon, c'mon!
What in hell's the matter with him?
Take your pick. Corso No, you. You know everything. Girl If you say so.
We lost them. Corso Not at this speed. They must have gone the other way. Girl You mean I don't know everything after all? Corso Turn around.
Thirtyish, blond, dishy - what was her name again? Corso Telfer. Liana Telfer. Girl No, her maiden name. Corso Saint-Damien. Girl Look.
Should we drive straight in? Corso In this thing? We might as well hang a bell around our necks. Park here.
So?
Monsieur? Baker M'sieur? Corso Nous cherchons la maison de Madame de Saint-Damien. Baker Le chateau, vous voulez dire. Corso  Chateau! That's it - got to be.  Ou il est, le chateau? Baker  La route aprs ''gllse, m'sieur.
Keep going.
See them anywhere? Corso No. Girl They aren't there.
You! Corso Where is it? Liana How dare you! Corso That book isn't yours, Madame. 1 need it. Liana Get out of here, both of you!
Careful, she bites!
Get the book, Bruno.
Take them downstairs and lock them up. We'll deal with them later, there's no time now. Bruno  Turn around.
You. Go first. Any trouble, I blow his brains.
Go left. Down the stairs.
Avanti, avanti!
Open it!
Move!
Watch out!
I didn't know you had it in you. Corso Another thing you didn't know?  Hey, give me a hand. I want his gear.
No! Up to the gallery.
You stay here and cover me. I'm going down.
Mumbo-jumbo-mumbo-jumbo-mumbo-jumbo!!!
Mumbo-jumbo-mumbo-jumbo-mumbo-jumbo!!!
Look around you - yes, all of you. What do you see?  I'll tell you a bunch of buffoons in fancy dress. What are you expecting, an apparition? I'm the only apparition you'll see tonight. You really think the Prince of Darkness would deign to manifest himself to the likes of you? He never has and he never will - never!  You read from his book, yes, but you have no conception of its true power. I alone have grasped its secret. I alone have fathomed the Master's grand design. I alone am worthy to enjoy the fruits of that discovery absolute power to determine my own destiny. Liana Give it back at once! Balkan As for you, Liana de Saint-Damien, you're even guiltier than the rest of this pathetic rabble. You have at least some idea of what this book can do in the right hands, yet you lend yourself to these farcical proceedings, these orgies of ageing flesh conducted in the Master's name. You're a charlatan!
Don't, Corso!
Get off me! He'll kill her! Girl Leave them!
Boooh!
Why did you do it? Girl Some things are meant to happen. That was one of them. Corso Don't give me that crap again! You were working for him all along! Girl Funny, I thought you were. Corso You played me for a sucker, the two of you. I don't intend to take the rap for that maniac. Girl He just murdered someone with a roomful of witnesses. That lets you off the hook for the other killings. You should be grateful. Corso I'm ecstatic.  Where's he off to? Girl What do you care? Your job is done. This is as far as you need to go. Corso The hell it is! The sonofabitch owes me the other half of my fee. Girl Of course, it's just business. I thought your curiosity had gotten the better of you. Corso Okay, so what's meant to happen next? Girl You really want to know?
... eight doors come before the Serpent that guards the word, Teth, Enea, Novem, Oded, the number nine, which holds the final secret, the mystery of mysteries. The Serpent is the beast that always sleeps with one eye open and is reflected in the Mirror of Knowledge.  Eight engravings plus one, or one plus eight, which coincides with the number that St. John of Patmos attributed to the Beast 666... Corso He needs therapy. Balkan  One plus eight equals nine!
What are you doing here?! Corso I thought I'd drop in before they put you behind bars. Balkan Go away! Corso We had a deal, remember? Balkan A deal?! What impertinence! You bungled it, damn you! You failed me all along the line! Thanks to your lack of initiative, I was compelled to do my own dirty work. And I did it! I got these myself! See, here they are!  Nine engravings or nine doors, and only an initiate can open them. Each door has two keys, each engraving discloses a number, a secret element and keyword to be interpreted in the light of reason and the Cabbala, the one true philosophy! Corso I want my money. Balkan Don't you understand what's going on here?  You have before you the mystery of which men have dreamed throughout the centuries. Thousands have died an agonizing death in hopes of just a glimpse of what you're about to see! Corso Yeah? What's that, Old Nick in person? Balkan Don't be ridiculous! He has never appeared to anyone, never! He's a spirit - the spirit of pure evil. He manifests himself through his servants, of whom I'm proud to be one!  I have only to complete the sequence. Then the Serpent will enter the seal of Saturn, and I - I shall enter the Ninth Gate! Corso Cut the crap and write me a cheque.
I give you my allegiance, Master. I surrender myself unto you body and soul. Let me fear neither noose, nor sword, nor poison. Let me walk unscathed among lepers and the plague-ridden. Erase me from the Book of Life and inscribe me in the black Book of Death. Let it be no! Let it be so now! Corso Hey, don't be stupid! Balkan It's miraculous! I feel nothing, nothing at all!
Here, you idiot!
He really thought it would work. Girl He wasn't to know it wouldn't. Corso You didn't do anything to help him, Greeneyes, not this time. Girl I'm your guardian angel, remember?
Bonjour, m'sieur. Votre petit djeuner. Corso Oh. Sure.
Where is she? Waiter Pardon? Corso Madame, ou elle est? Waiter Je ne ''ai pas vue, m'sieur.
Good morning, Mr. Corso. Corso Morning, Gruber. The young lady I came with, have you seen her? Gruber Yea, sir. She went out not long ago.  She asked me to give you this.
window frame has been ripped out, exposing the masonry surrounding it. The whirr of a power tool can be heard. Corso, looking puzzled, descends the steps. He pauses in the doorway and surveys the interior. The hand press has disappeared and the floor is littered with debris. Pale rectangular patches on the grey walls indicate where counters and cabinets have been ripped out. Two Spanish workmen are busy detaching an old cabinet from the wall with an electric screwdriver.
Oiga!
Senor? Corso Los Hermanos Ceniza? 1st Workman Los Ceniza?  Estan muertos. Corso Como muertos? Quando? 1st Workman Oh, hace anos, anos. Corso ANOS?! 2nd Workman Ingles? Corso Americana. 2nd Workman Ah... They dead, many years. Corso  But they were here not long ago - I spoke with them.
Disculpe.
