Turning up a waterfront tenement street lit by a dim street lamp that throws an eerie beam. He is holding something inside his jacket but we cannot see what it is.
Hey Joey! Joey Doyle!
Terry?  What do you want?
Hey look-
 one of yours. I recognized the band.
Yeah? Must be Danny-boy. I lost him in the last race.
He followed my birds into their coop. Here, you want him?
 Well I got to watch myself these days. Know what I mean?
I'll bring him up to your loft.
 I'll see you on the roof.
 Tippi-tippi-tim, tippi-tim, Tippi-tippi-tan, tippi-tan...  Gotta dime for a crippled-up docker?
Go on, beat it!
A dime, Terry, a dime for a cup of coffee?
Don't give me that coffee, you rummy. Now blow!
Thanks for nothing, you bum.
Terry?
That you, Terry?
Where's Terry?
He said he'd meet me up here.
You want me to jump so it looks like an accident?
Come on. I'll take one of you with me.
An old-fashioned corner saloon with swinging doors. Standing on the corner, fl anked by a goon aptly named the TRUCK is CHARLEY, THE GENT, Terry's older brother, rather handsome if a little too smooth, in his late thirties, a snappy dresser in his camel hair coat and snap brim hat. He is quick-witted and affable, more politician than mobster. Terry enters to him.
 How goes? TERRY  He's on the roof.
The pigeon?
 Like you said. It worked.
 That brother of yours is thinkin' alla time.
 All the time.
I'm afraid somebody fell off a roof.
He thought he was gonna sing for the Crime Commission.   He won't.
 You said they was only going to talk to him.
That was the idea.
I thought they'd talk to him. Try to get him to dummy up.
Maybe he gave them an argument.
I figured the worst they'd do is work him over a little.
He probably gave 'em an argument.
 He's been giving our boss a lot of trouble.
He wasn't a bad little fella, that Joey.
No he wasn't.
Except for his mouth.
Talkative.
 Wasn't a bad little fella ...
 Maybe he could sing, but he couldn't fly.
 Come on, kid. I'll buy you a drink.
 In a minute.
 I kept tellin' him: don't say nothin', keep quiet, you'll live longer.
 Tell the ambulance to hurry.
He ain't gonna need no ambulance.
 One side. Le'me through!
 Same thing they did to my Andy five years ago.
You're Pop Doyle, aren't you, the boy's father?
 That's right.
He fell over backward from the roof like he was pushed. Any ideas?
 None.
 He was the one longshoreman with guts enough to talk to them crime investigators. Everybody knows that.
 Who asked you. Shut your trap. If Joey'd taken that advice he wouldn't be 
 Everybody know that...?
I said shut up!
Look, I'm an honest cop. Give me some leads and I'll...
Listen don't bother him. Right, Moose?
 One thing I learned all my life on the waterfront dont ask no questions don't answer no questions. Unless you... . 
 He was all heart, that boy. Enough guts for a regiment.
 Guts I'm sick of guts. He gets a book in the pistol local and right away he's gonna be a hero. Gonna push the mob off the dock singlehanded... .
 Take it easy, Pop. I know it's rough but time and faith are great healers... .
Time and faith... . My brother's dead and you stand there talking drivel about time and faith.
 Why Edie, I
 How could anyone do this to Joey. The best in the neighborhood... . everybody said it, not only me. Who'd want to harm Joey? Tell me who?  -- who?
 I wish I knew, Edie, But 
Don't turn away! Look at it! You're in this too don't you see, don't you see? You're in this too, Father.
 Edie, I do what I can. I'm in the church when you need me.
 "In the church when you need me." Was there ever a saint who hid in the Church?
 Forgive her, Father. Them two was as close as twins.
 Whoever was in on this'll burn in hell until kingdom come... .
is Terry, who sits at a table by himself staring at a half-finished glass of beer. Mutt is wandering around in the B.G.
Hey, Terry, Riley's makin' a bum outa that Solari
Turn it off. Them clowns can't fight. There's nobody tough anymore.
Hey, boss, Packy wants another one on the cuff?
 Give it to him!
Here's the cut from the shape-up. Eight hundred and ninety-one men at three bucks a head makes
 Here, you count it. Countin' makes me sleepy.
 H'ya, slugger, how they hangin'?
 So-so, Johnny.
 Don't hit me, now, don't hit me!
We got a banana boat at forty-six tomorra. If we pull a walkout it might be a few bucks from the shippers. Them bananas go bad in a hurry.
We'll ask ten G.  Where's Morgan? Where's that big banker of mine?
Right here, boss.
 Well, J.P., how's business?
Havin' trouble with Kelly again, boss. He Won't take no loans and Big Mac puts him to work anyway.
 He's my wife's nephew.
 But he don't take no loans.
I got to give him work. She'd murda me... .
 That's why I stay single.  Here's the interest on the day, boss. Five thirty two.
 Count it.
 Hey, Skins  --get away with that sheet metal all right?
Easy, that new checker faked the receipt. Here it is, boss. 
Stow the receipt. I'll take the cash.
 Forty-five bills.
 Hey, Terry, front and center.
 Count this.
Aw, you know I don't like to count, Johnny.
It's good for you. Develops your mind.
What mind?
Shut up. I like the kid.  Remember the night he took Farella at St. Nick's, Charley. We won a bundle. Real tough. A big try.
 Not a dent.  Perfect
 My favorite little cousin.
 Thirty-six sev aah I lost the count.
 OK skip it, Einstein. How come you never got no education like the rest of us?
 Only arithmetic he got was hearing the referee count up to ten.
 Now listen, Mac
 What gives with our boy tonight, Charley? He ain't himself.
 The Joey Doyle thing. You know how he is. Things like that he exaggerates them. Too much Marquis of Queensbury.  It softens 'em up.
 Listen kid, I'm a soft tough too. Ask any rummy  on the dock if I'm not good for a fin any time they put the arm on me.  But my old lady raised us ten kids on a stinkin' watchman's pension. When I was sixteen I had to beg for work in the hold. I didn't work my way up out of there for nuthin'.
 I know, Johnny, I know... .
Takin' over this local, you know it took a little doin'. Some pretty tough fellas were in the way. They left me this (suddenly holds up chin to show a long ugly scar on neck) to remember them by.
 When he got up and chased them they thought it was a dead man coming after them.
 I know what's eatin' you, kid. But I got two thousand dues-payin' members in my local that's seventy-two thousand a year legitimate and when each one of 'em puts in a couple of bucks a day to make sure they work steady well, you figure it out. And that's just for openers. We got the fattest piers in the fattest harbor in the world. Everything that moves in and out we take our cut.
Why shouldn't we? If we c'n get it we're entitled to it.
 We ain't robbin' pennies from beggars. We cuttin' ourselves in for five-six million a year just on our half a dozen piers  a drop in the bucket compared to the traffic in the harbor.  But a mighty sweet little drop, eh, Charley?
 It'll do.
So look, kid, you don't think we c'n afford to be boxed out of a deal like this a deal I sweated and bled for on account of one lousy little cheese-eater, that Doyle bum, who thought he c'd go squealin' to the Crime Commission? Do you?
Do you?
Well, no, Johnny, I just thought I should've been told if
 I make it twentysix twenty-three. You're fifty short, Skins.
 Gimme.
 I I musta counted wrong, boss, I
Gimme.
 You come from Green Point? Go back to Green Point. You don't work here no more.  Here, kid, here's half a bill. Go get your load on.
 Naw, thanks, Johnny, I don't want it, I
 Go on a little present from your Uncle Johnny. (He pushes the bill into the breast pocket of Terry's jacket, then turns to Big Mac) And Mac, tomorra mornin' when you shape the men put Terry in the loft. Number one. Every day.  Nice easy work. Check in and goof off on the coffee bags. O.K.?
 Thanks, Johnny... .
 You got a real friend here, kid. Don't forget it.
 Why should he forget it?
a freckle-faced fourteen-year-old boy, approaches along the same stretch of roof seen in the mugging of Joey.
Hi!
I was gonna feed 'em, Terry.
's all right, kid. I took care of 'em myself this morning.
Boy, you must've been up early.
 Yeah, yeah, I was awake anyway so I figured (gesturestoward feeding pigeons; then with admiration) They got it made. Eat all they want fly around like crazy sleep side by side and raise gobs of squabs.
I better get over there. (O.S. sound of ship whistle again. Terry answers the ship irritably) O.K., O.K., I'm coming.  Don't spill no water on the floor now. I Don't want them birds to catch cold.
DISSOLVE
 Hey Jackie, what D'ya think of this privileged character? Don't have to shape up no more. Got himself a soft touch up in the loft. 
 Who told you that?
 Waterfront Western Union.  Terry looks around at the restless men again.
You're doin' lovely, Terry, very lovely.
 O.K., O.K., That's enough.
 What's the matter wit' you, success gone to ya head?
I told you lay off.
 My ain't we touchy this morning?
Go home, Pop. The lads who get work Today'll be chippin' in gladly.
Sure, we'll take care of ya.
That's the truth, Pop.
Thanks, boys, but I'm gonna shape. Who do you think's gonna pay for the funeral Johnny Friendly and the boss stevedore?
Hey, watch that talk. What you say?
He was just tellin' me how proud he was to belong to a fine honest local run by such an outstandin' labor leader as Johnny Friendly.
Don't get wise now, you.
Wise! If I was wise I wouldn't be no longshoreman for thirty years and poorer now than when I started.
Here I brought you Joey's windbreaker Wear it, Kayo. Yours is more full of holes than The Pittsburgh infield.
Condolences. How you fixed for cabbage this mornin'?
Oh me and my chum are just rolling in the stuff. We only work down here for a hobby, J.P. 
Haw, haw, haw that's a good one.
 You'll be needing a few dollars for your extras, Won't you, Pop? You're three weeks behind on the last twenty-five, but I'm willing to take a chance.
Some chance at ten percent a week! And if he don't borrow, he don't work.
 You'll work.
I ought to belt you one, J.P.
 Raise a hand to me and... .
... .and you'll tell Johnny Friendly.
You'd be off the pier for good.
 All right, slip me a bill and may you rot in hell, J.P.
When I'm dead 'n gone you'll know what a friend I was.
Drop dead now, why don't you, so we c'n test your theory?
Condolences.
 Do any of you men know Terry Malloy?
Malloy? Never heard of 'im.
 Me neither
You're Terry Malloy, aren't you?
 What about it?
I thought I recognized you. Saw you fight in St. Nick's a couple of years ago.
 O.K. O.K. Without the bird seed. What do you want?
Our identification.
Waterfront Crime Commission ?  What's that?
We're getting ready to hold public hearings on waterfront crime and underworld infiltration of longshore unions.
 I don't know nothing.
You haven't heard the questions yet.
 There's a rumor that you're one of the last people to see Joey Doyle alive.
And I still say I don't know nothing.
We're not accusing you of anything, Mr. Malloy.
I hope you understand that.
We only want to ask you a few things about people you may know.
People I You mean sing for you. Get out of here before I
 I wouldn't advise that, Mr. Malloy. Unless you want to be booked for assaulting an officer of the law.
Listen, I don't know nothing, I didn't see nothing, I ain't saying nothing. So why don't you and your girlfriend get lost.
 All right, Mr. Malloy, you have a right not to talk, if that's what you choose to do. But the public has a right to know the facts, too.
 We may be seeing you again.
Never will be much too soon.
 Take it easy.
How do you like them jokers? Taking me for a pigeon.
 Gimme the names, I'll write 'em down in me little book.
 One more word 'n I would've belted the two of 'em, badge or no badge!
Here's the tabs for two hundred banana carriers.
 A banana boat. It would be bananas.  One of these days me ship's comin' in from Ireland,  God love 'er, loaded to the gunnels with sweet Irish whiskey!
Nolan, me lad, ye're dreamin' again.
Edie?
 What the devil is she doin' down here?
 Edie, I know your father well, and I'm sorry for your troubles. But there's been hundreds of murders down here and practically no convictions hardly any arrests.
Why, Mr. Rourke? Why?
The last fellow who talked was awful dead when they pulled him out of the river. I guess the Sisters don't teach you things like that up at your school in Tarrytown.  That's the waterfront.
 Father Barry.
Hello, Edie.
I'm afraid I spoke out of turn last night.
You think I'm just a gravy-train rider in a turned-around collar?
Don't you?  I see the Sisters taught you not to lie.
I've been thinking about your question and the answer come up and hit me  bang. This is my parish. I don't know how much I can do but you're right, Edie I'll never find out if I don't come down here and take a good look for myself.
The following men report to the loft
Malloy.
Pop never talks about this.
Don't crowd me. Stand back.
I got five kids. I need a day bad.
 Come on, you bums, push back. I'll do the pickin'.
I'll kick in five.
 Back! Get back!
 Hey, Sonny! Truck!
Pop!
Hey, Terry. Grab me on!
Here you go, Jackie boy.
Hey, give me that.
Give me that. It belongs to Pop. He saw it first.
Oh, I thought you was gonna go to work with all them muscles. 
Give it to me my Pop's job
What makes him so special?
None of your business.
 Things 're lookin' up on the docks, huh, Jackie?
Didn't you recognize him, dopey. That's Old Man Doyle.
 Doyle.  Joey Doyle's... .?  ... .You're his... .
 Sister. Yes I am.
You don't want to lug bananas in the rain anyway, do you, Jackie?
Aah, give it to 'im.
Here you go, muscles. Nice wrastlin' with you.
Edie looks after him with smoldering anger.
Pop, you all right?
 Sure, just the beak  It's been busted before.
HereI got it for you.
Okay, I can use it  Now go back to the Sisters where you belong. (His anger mounting with his need to regain his self-respect, he turns on Father Barry.) I'm surprised with you, Father, if you don't mind my sayin' so. Lettin' her see things ain't fit for the eyes of a decent girl.
Hey, Doyle, you got a tab?
 Yeah!
Then get in there. Number three gang, number one hatch, puh-ronto.
 Our welfare officer. He's been away three times for assault and battery.
 Outa the way. Come back tomorra.
 What do you do now?
 Like he says. Come back tomorra.
Is this what you do, just take it like this?
 Five straight mornin's I been Standin' here and the bum looks right through me. There's always a couple hundred left standin' in the street.
 Shh. Sonny's over there.
And there's nothing you can do? How about your union?
 You know how a blackjack local works, Father. Get up in a meetin', make a motion, the lights go out, you go out.
If three guys talk on a corner, Johnny's  boys break us up. Look at 'em.
Didn't the miners sailors garment workers get rid of this years ago?
The waterfront's tougher like it ain't part of America. Anywhere else you got the law protectin' ya. Here ya just get knocked off and forgotten. Like 
 Shh, not here, across the street.
River Street, you might as well be in
What is this, a church picnic? Get outa here. Excuse me, Father.
 That's how it's been ever since Johnny and his cowboys took over the local.
Name one place where it's even safe to talk.
 Use the church.
What?
 The bottom of the church.
 You know what you're letting yourself in for, Father?
Got a cigarette on you? 
 You heard me boys. Use the bottom of the church.
Working hard?
It's a living.
 You don't mind working once in a while to justify this lofty position?
I just fnished work. I counted the bags.
We got a little extra detail for you. The local priest and this Doyle girl are getting up a meeting in the church. We'd like a rundown on it. You know, names and numbers of all the players. You're nominated.
 Why me, Charley? I'd feel funny going in there.
 Johnny does you favors, kid. You got to do a little one for him once in a while.
But going in that church, I'd be stooling for you, Charley. You make a pigeon out of me.
 Let me explain you something, kid. Stooling is when you rat on your friends, on the guys you're with.  When Johnny needs a favor, don't try to figure it out, just do it. Now go ahead, join the congregation.
 I thought there'd be more of you here, but the Romans found out what a handful could do, if it's the right handful. And the same goes for you and the mob that's got their foot on your neck. I'm just a potato-eater but isn't it simple as one - two three? One The working conditions are bad. Two They're bad because the mob does the hiring. Three The only way to break the mob is to stop letting them get away with murder. (He looks around at them. Everybody is silent, waiting.) If just one of you would answer one question, we'd have a start.  And that question is Who killed Joey Doyle?
Not one of you has a line on who killed Joey Doyle?
Tommy Collins, you were Joey's best friend. How can you just sit there and not be saying anything?
 I'll always think of him as my best friend, but
 Who asked him here?
 Have a seat. I'm trying to find out just what happened to Joey Doyle. Maybe you can help.
 The brother of Charley the Gent. They'll help us get to the bottom of the river.
 Keep Charley out of this.
 You don't think he'd be helpful?
 Go ask him, why don't you ? Ask him yourself.
Maybe I will one of these days.
 One of these days.
 Now listen, if you know who the pistols are, if you see them on the dock every day, are you going to keep still until they cut you down one by one?  Are you? Are you? How about you, Nolan?
Father, one thing you got to understand. On the dock we've always been D 'n D.
 D 'n D?
 Deef 'n dumb. Somethin' c'n happen right in front of our noses and we don't see nothin'. You know what I mean. No matter how much we hate the torpedoes we don't rat.
Boys, get smart. I know you're Getting' pushed around but one thing we got in this country is ways of fightin' back. Getting' the facts to the public. Testifyin' for what you know is right against what you know is wrong. What's ratting to them is telling the truth for you. Can't you see that?  Huh? Huh?
 This seems to be just about all we can do at this time, I think you'll agree, Father, and so I'd like to close with a few words from St. Paul, "Come unto me... ."
 That's our friends.
What did I tell you about sticking your neck out?
These fellers need help, Vince.
 Okay. Don't blame me when they pack you off to Abyssinia.
I'll take my chances.  We must be on the right track or they wouldn't be sending us this little calling card.  Who's got a cigarette?  You better go home in pairs.
Not that way.
Come on, I'll get you out.
You all right, Nolan?
 Yeah, considerin' they was usin' my head for a baseball!
 Nice fellows.
 Those blood suckers. How I'd love to fix those babies but
But you still hold out for silence?
You still call it ratting?
Are you on the level, Father?
What do you think?
If I stick my neck out, and they chopped it off, would that be the end of it? Or are you ready to go all the way?
I'll go down the line, Kayo, believe me.
Baseball bats that's just for openers. They'll put the muscle on you, turned-around collar or no turned-around collar.
And I still say you stand up and I'll stand up with you.
Down to the wire?
So help me God!
Well, I had my fun, I've drunk my fill and I tickled some good-lookin' fillies I'm on borried time.
 We're off and running, Kayo.
in the opposite direction.
 I think we're O.K.
 Thanks.  Steel pipes and baseball bats.
They play pretty rough.
 Which side are you with?
 I'm with Terry.
 I'll get home all right now.
I better see you get there.
A dime. One thin dime for a cup of coffee.
Coffee, that's a laugh. His belly is used to nothing but rotgut whiskey.
 One little dime you don't need. (He brings his whiskered, sodden face very close to Edie's and stares at her as if througha dense fog.) I know you you're Edie Doyle. Your Brother's a saint  only one ever tried to get me my compensation.
Remember, Terry, you was there the night he was'?
 Yeah, yeah Here's half a buck, go have yourself a ball.
I can't believe it a small fortune. (He kisses the coin, then pulls from his shirt a small tobacco pouchful of coins in which he deposits this one.) (then turns on Terry again) You can't buy me you're still a bum!  'Bye, Edie. Lord have mercy on Joey. 
 Look who says bum!
 Everybody loved Joey. From the little kids to the old rummies.  Did you know him very well?
 Everybody knew him. He got around.
 What did that man mean when he said you were... .?
 Aah, he's a bottlebaby, he talks to himself, the joke of the neighborhood.
 I better get home.
Don't be afraid of me. I ain't going to bite you.
You know how the Sisters are.
You training to be a nun or something?
 It's a regular college. It's just run by the nuns. The Sisters of St. Anne.
And you spend all your time just learning stuff, huh?
 I want to be a teacher.
A teacher! Dong!!!  You know I admire brains. Take my brother Charley. He's very brainy. Very.
 It isn't brains. It's how you use them.
 Yeah. Yeah. I get your thought. You know I seen you lots of times before. Parochial school on Pulaski Street? Seven, eight years ago? Your hair come down in
In braids? That's right.
Looked like two pieces of rope. And your teeth were
 I know. I thought I'd never get those braces off.
 Man, you were a mess!
I can get home all right from here
The thought I'm tryin' to get over is you grew up beauteeful. Remember me?
 The moment I saw you.
 Some people got faces that stick in your mind.
 I remember you were in trouble all the time.
Now you got me! It's a wonder I wasn't punchy by the time I was twelve. The rulers those Sisters used to whack me with!  They thought they could beat an education into meI foxed 'em.
Maybe they just didn't know how to handle you.
 How would you've done it?
With a little more patience and kindness. That's what makes people mean and difficult. Nobody cares enough about them.
What's that?
Pardon me while I reach for my beads.
What?
What-what? Where you been the last four five years? Outer space?
When Mother died Pop sent me out to school in the country. He was afraid with no one home I'd get into bad company.
 Well he played it smart. Too many good-for-nothin's around here. All they got on their mind's a little beer, a little pool, a little (looks at her and catches himself, his face registering: I'm with a Nice Girl) I better get you home.
 Boy, they sure fly nice, don't they?
 Do you like pigeons?
That's my own flock up there, getting their evening workout. I won plenty of races with 'em.  Listen, you want to see them? Come up on the roof with me and I'll show 'em to you.
I'd better go in.
 I only live up there and across the roof.
 Thanks anyway.
 Listen, Edie, am I going to see you again?
 What for?
 I don't know.
I really don't know.
You got some nerve.
What do you mean?
You know what I mean. Leave her alone.
 I was only talkin' to her.
She's off limits for bums like you. Leave her alone.
I can look at her, can't I? It's a free country.
 Not that free.
You're all packed.  And here's your bus ticket. You're on your way back to St. Anne's.
Pop, I'm not ready to go back yet.
Edie, for years we pushed quarters into a cookie jar, to keep you up there with the Sisters, and to keep you from things like I just seen out the window. My own daughter arm-in-arm with Terry Malloy. You know who Terry Malloy is?
 Who is he, Pop?
 Who is he! Edie, you're so softhearted and soft-headed you wouldn't recognize the devil if he had you by the throat. You know who this Terry Malloy is? The kid brother of Charlie the Gent, Johnny Friendly's right hand, a butcher in a camel hair coat.
Are you trying to tell me Terry is too?
 I'm not trying to tell you he's Little Lord Fauntleroy.
He tries to act tough, but there's a look in his eyes that... .
A look in his eyes! Hold your hats, brother, here we go again. You think he's one of those cases you're always draggin' in and feelin' sorry for. Like the litter of kittens you hadthe only one she wants to keep has six toes and it's cockeyed to boot. Look at him. The bum! And the crush you had on that little Abyssinian... .
He wasn't Abyssinian, Pop, Assyrian... .
Six-toed cats. Assyrians. Abyssinians. It's the same difference. Well don't think this Terry Malloy is any six-toed cockeyed Assyrian. He's a bum. Charley and Johnny Friendly owned him when he was a fighter and when they ring the bell he still goes into action.
 He wanted to see me again.
You think we kept you out in Tarrytown just to have you go walkin' with a corner saloon hoodlum like Terry Malloy? Now get back to Tarrytown, before I put a strap to you.
 And learn about charity and justice and all the other things people would rather talk about than practice? Pop goes up to her and holds out his two arms, his right one closer to Edie; he trembles with emotion.
See this arm? It's two inches longer 'n the other one. That's years of workin' and sweatin', liftin' and swingin' a hook. And every time I heisted a box or a coffee bag I says to myselfthis is for Edie, so she can be a teacher or somethin' decent. I promised your mother. You better not let her down.
Pop, don't think I'm not feeling grateful for all you've done to get me an education and shelter me from this.  But now my eyes are open. I see things I know are so wrong how can I go back and keep my mind on things that are only in books and that people aren't living? I'm staying, Pop. And I'm going to keep on trying to find out who's guilty for Joey. I'd walk home with a dozen Terry Malloys if I thought they could help me. I tell you I'm staying, Pop. Pop starts to pull his belt out of his trousers.
You are like
 Pop!
 Jesus, Mary and Joseph, keep an eye on her.
 My feet feels like dancin'. But the rest of me just feels like settin' here.
 Okay I guess they got enough exercise. Let 'em come in.
I wonder how long she's goin' to hang around, huh, Terry?
 Be sure they got enough water.
I changed my mind. I feel real mean tonight.
 Good. So do I.
The Golden Warriors.
I started them Golden Warriors. I was their first Supreme Commander.
My shadow. He follows me around like I was Mickey Mantle. Thinks I'm a big man because I boxed pro for a while. 
Here they come! The champion flock of the neighborhood.
You don't mind yourself at all, do you.  Joey used to race pigeons.
 He had a few birds.  I got up and fed 'em this morning.
That was nice of you.
 I like pigeons. You send a bird five hundred miles away he won't stop for food or water until he's back in his own coop.
I wouldn't have thought you'd be so interested in pigeons.
I go for this stuff. You know this city's full of hawks? There must be twenty thousand of 'em. They perch on top of the big hotels and swoop down on the pigeons in the park.
 The things that go on.
 How do you like that one?
Oh she's a beauty.
 She's a he. His name is Swifty.
My lead bird. He's always on that top perch.
He looks awful proud of himself.
Why shouldn't he? He's the boss.
If another fella tries to take that perch away from him, he lets him have it.
Even pigeons aren't peaceful.
One thing about them though, they're faithful. They get married just like people.
Better.
Yeah, once they're mated they stay together all their lives until one of 'em dies.
That's nice.
 Listen, you like beer?
I don't know.
Want to go out and have one with me?
In a saloon?
 Come on, I know a quiet one, with a special entrance for ladies... .
I'm only after havin' one more wee bit
You and your one-mores. Now beat it.
Well, what do you knowJackie just stole home.
 I wouldn't mind doing that myself.
 What're you drinking?
 I'll try a Glockenheimer.
 Likewise. And draw two for chasers.  Now you're beginning to live.
 I am?
 Not that way like this.  Down the hatch!  Wham!
 Wham... .
 How do you like it?
It's quite  nice.
How about another one?
 No thanks... .
 Hit me again, Mac.
 See the fight last night? That Rileyboth hands. Little bit on your style.
Hope he has better luck.
Were you really a prize fighter?
 I went pretty good for a while, didn't I, Al? But I didn't stay in shape and  I had to take a few dives.
A dive? You mean, into the water?
 Naw, in the ring, a dive is-
 Now what are you doing?
Describing you. A square from out there. I mean you're nowhere.  Miss Four Corners.
 What made you want to be a fighter?
I had to scrap all my life. Figured I might as well get paid for it. When I was a kid my old man got killednever mind how. Charley and I was put in a placethey called it a Children's Home. Some home! I run away and peddled papers, fought in club smokers and  But what am I runnin' off at the mouth for? What do you care?
Shouldn't we care about everybody?
What a fruitcake you are!
Isn't everybody part of everybody else?
Gee, thoughts! Alla time thoughts!  You really believe that drool?
 Terry!
Want to hear my philosophy? Do it to him before he does it to you.
 Our Lord said just the opposite.
I'm not lookin' to get crucified. I'm lookin' to stay in one piece.
I never met such a person. Not a spark of romance or sentiment or or human kindness in your whole body.
What do they do for you, except get in your way?
And when things get in your way or people you just knock them aside get rid of Them is that your idea?
 Listen get this straight don't look at me when you say them things. It wasn't my fault what happened to your brother. Fixing Joey wasn't my idea... .
 Why, Terry, who said it was?
 Well, nobody, I guess. But that Father Barry, I didn't like the way he kept lookin' at me.
He was looking at everybody the same way. Asking the same question.
 Yeah, yeah... .  This Father Barry, what's his racket?
 His racket?
 You've been off in daisyland, honey. Everybody's got a racket.
But a priest...?
You don't believe in anything, do you?
Edie, down here it's every man for himself. It's keepin' alive! It's standin' in with the right people so you can keep a little loose change jinglin' in your pocket.
And if you don't?
If you don't  Keep your neck in and your nose clean and You'll never have no trouble down here.
But that's living like an animal
I'd rather live like an animal than end up like
Like Joey? Are you afraid to mention his name?
 Why keep harpin' on it?  Come on, drink up. You got to get a little fun out of life. What's the matter with you?  I'll play you some music.
Help me, if you can for God's sakes help me!
I I'd like to, Edie, but  there's nothin' I can do. Edie feels subdued, ashamed at breaking down. She rises, and in a low voice says
All right, all right.. I shouldn't 've asked you.
You haven't finished your beer.
I don't want it. But why don't you stay and finish your drink.
 I got my whole life to drink.
You're not sore at me?
 What for?
For not being any help?
Why no I think you would if you could... .
 What are you crying for?
 I thought I felt mean tonight. But I'm not I'm just all mixed up... .
Come on, I'll walk you through. It's the shortest way home.
You like music?
 We're on!
Hey, we're good!  The Sisters should see you now, huh?
 I I never knew a girl like you, Edie. I always knew the kind you just grab 'em And I never knew a girl like you, Edie.
It's fun dancing with your eyes closed. I'm floating. I'm floating... .
 Edie... .
I been looking for you, Terry. The boss wants you.
Right now?
 He just got a call from "Mr. Upstairs." Something's gone wrong. He's plenty hot.
I'm gonna take her home first.
I'd get over there, Terry. I'll take the little lady home.
 I'll come over when I'm ready.
You know Johnny when he gets mad.
 Who was that?
 Edie, listen, stay out of this mess. Quit tryin' to ask things about Joey. It ain't safe for you.
Why worry about me? You're the one who says only look out for yourself.
 Okay, get in hot water. But don't come hollerin' to me when you get burned.
Why should I come hollering to you at all?
Because... because...  Listen Edie, don't get sore now but I think we're getting in love with each other.
 I can't let myself fall in love with you.
 That goes double for me.
Mr. Malloy, I was hoping I might find you here.
You're being served with a subpoena, Mr. Malloy.
What?
 Be at the State House, Courtroom Nine, at ten o'clock tomorrow.
I told you I don't know nothin' and I ain't saying nothin'.
You can bring a lawyer if you wish. And you're privileged under the Constitution to protect yourself against questions that might implicate you in any crimes.
 You know what you're askin'? You're askin'
 Mr. Malloy, all we're asking you to do is tell the truth.
 Goodnight, kid.
 What are you going to do?
 I won't eat cheese for no cops, that's for sure.
 It was Johnny Friendly who killed Joey, wasn't it?
He had him killed or had something to do with it, Didn't he? He and your brother Charley?
Edie, your old man's right, go back to that school out in daisyland. You're driving yourself nuts you're driving me nuts stop worrying about the truth worry about yourself.
Look out for number one. Always number one.  I should've known you wouldn't tell me. Pop said Johnny Friendly used to own you. I think he still owns you.  No wonder everybody calls you a bum.
 Don't say that, Edie, don't...
 It's true.
I'm tryin' to keep you from being hurt What more do you want?
Much more, Terry. Much, much more!
 I I was just on my way up, Johnny.
By way of Chicago?
 Only two times, why, Johnny?
It must have been once too often. I think your brains come apart. What you got up there, Chinese bells?
Aw, Johnny... .
I thought you were gonna keep an eye on that church meeting.
Nothing happened, Johnny.
Nothing happened, he says. Some operator you got yourself there, Charley. One more like him and we'll all be wearing striped pajamas.
 It was a big nothing! The Father did all the talking.
Oh, he did. Half an hour later a certain Timothy J. Nolan went into secret session with the Commission and he did all the talking.
You mean Kayo Nolan, the old timer? He doesn't know much.
He don't, huh? (produces a bound folder of testimony from his pocket and slams it on the fender) Well, he knows thirty-nine pages worth of our operation.
How'd you get that.
 I got it. Hot off the press.
The complete works of Timothy J. Nolan.
Nolan? I knew he had guts but
Guts! A crummy pigeon who's looking to get his neck wrung!  You should have  You should have known better than to trust this punched out brother of yours. He was all right hanging around for laughs. But this is business. I don't like goofoffs messing in our business.
Now just a minute, I
 What the hell are you doing with his sister?  It's that girl, Johnny, the little Doyle broad has him out on his feet. An unhealthy relationship.
Definitely!
Don't see her no more. Unless you're both tired of living. Barney, you got her address?  Now listen, if we don't muzzle Nolan, we're into the biggest stink this town ever seen. We got the best muscle on the waterfront. The time to use it is now pronto if not sooner.  And you know where you're going? Back in the hold no more cushy job in the loft. It's down the hold with the sweat gang till you learn your lesson.
Let's go!
 An Ir-rish ship loaded to the gunnels with foine Ir-rish whiskey!
You see, Kayo, the good Lord watches over us after all.
 When we knock off let's have a bit of a party. We'll drink to God and Ireland, its whiskey and its women, to Joey and Edie  and death to tyrants everywhere... .!
 You think one bottle's enough for all them toasts?
 Patrick, me lad, I'm ahead of you.
I was afraid one bottle might get lonely by itself. (reaching into still another pocket and revealing still more bottles) Now you see the advantage of a little man in a big coat.
 Definitely! Nolan, my boy, you're a walkin' distillery.
I wonder how many Hail Marys the Father'll make me say at confession.  It'll be worth it! The pallet is loaded now. Terry turns and approaches Nolan.
 Listen Nolan
 What are you down here for to see we don't make off with any of Mister Friendly's precious cargo?
 Nolan... .
Come on, Kayo, get it up!
 And don't be walking off with any of that. You know how the boss feels about individual pilferage.
 Talk louder. I can't hear you.
If you kept your ears wide open instead of your mouth
 If I talk too loud it's the fault of the nuns.
And what in blazes have the nuns got to do with it?
 When I was a mere spit of a lad on Ferry Street in Dublin the nuns used to say to me, "Nolan, don't be swallowin' ye words like fishballs. When you got something to say  Talk with your mouth wide open," so if I'm loud don't blame me it's the fault of the nuns!
 Come on, knock it off!
Haw haw that's a good one, Kayo.
 Knock it off! Stand clear.  All right, take it away.
 Nolan...!
 Get a doctor.
 A doctor he needs a priest
 I came down here to keep a promise. I gave Kayo my word that if he stood up to the mob I'd stand up with him all the way. Now Kayo Nolan is dead. He was one of those fellows who had the gift of getting up. But this time they fixed him good unless it was an accident like Big Mac says.
Some people think the Crucifixion only took place on Calvary. They better wise up. Taking Joey Doyle's life to stop him from testifying is a crucifixion Dropping a sling on Kayo Nolan because he was ready to spill his guts tomorrow that's a crucifixion. Every time the mob puts the crusher on a good man tries to stop him from doing his duty as a citizen it's a crucifixion.
And anybody who sits around and lets it happen, keeps silent about something he knows has happened shares the guilt of it just as much as the Roman soldier who pierced the flesh of Our Lord to see if He was dead.
him but barely reacts. He listens intently to the Father's words.
Go back to your church, Father.
 Boys, this is my church. If you don't think Christ is here on the waterfront, you got another guess coming. And who do you think He lines up with
Get off the dock, Father.
Do that again and I'll flatten you.
What're you doing. Joining them
Let him finish.
Johnny ain't going to like that, Terry.
Let him finish.
Every morning when the hiring boss blows his whistle, Jesus stands alongside you in the shape-up.
He sees why some of you get picked and some of you get passed over. He sees the family men worrying about getting their rent and getting food in the house for the wife and kids. He sees them selling their souls to the mob for a day's pay.
By Christ, the next bum who throws something deals with me. I don't care if he's twice my size.
What does Christ think of the easy-money boys who do none of the work and take all of the gravy? What does He think of these fellows wearing hundred-and-fifty-dollar suits and diamond rings on your union dues and your kickback money? How does He feel about bloodsuckers picking up a longshoreman's work tab and grabbing twenty percent interest at the end of a week?
Never mind about that!
How does He, who spoke up without fear against evil, feel about your silence?
Shut up about that!
You see that?
You want to know what's wrong with our waterfront? It's love of a lousy buck. It's making love of a buck the cushy job more important than the love of man. It's forgetting that every fellow down here is your brother in Christ.
But remember, fellows, Christ is always with you Christ is in the shape-up, He's in the hatch He's in the union hall He's kneeling here beside Nolanand He's saying with all of you
If you do it to the least of mine, you do it to me! What they did to Joey, what they did to Nolan, they're doing to you. And you. And YOU. And only you, with God's help, have the power to knock 'em off for good!  Okay, Kayo?  Amen.
All right, fellows break it up! Let's go!
Edie... .  Edie
 Oh Luke.
 Joey's jacket. I thought maybe Kayo'd like you to have it back.
Sure you're okay?
 Edie!
 I I brought this for you, Terry. It was Joey's. (her conscious self trying to conceal 3t4the real meaning) Yours is coming out at the elbows.
 I don't rate it.
Go ahead, wear it.
 Pigeons... .
There's a hawk around. They're scared tonight.
Edie I I never said this to a girl before, I never knew a girl worth trying to say it for, but you you're... .
 I know... I know... .
 Father, help me, I've got blood on my hands.
Bless me, Father, for I have
What's the matter? I've got something That's chokin' me. I've gotta get it out.
Someone else c'n take your confession.
 But you're the one I want to tell what you said over Nolan about keepin' silent when you know the score I'm guilty you hear me? I'm guilty... .
 I don't want to hear it in there.
I don't get it!
 Tell it to me in there and my lips are sealed. But if I dig it out myself I can use it where it'll do the most good.
But you've got to listen to me.
I'll find you a priest.
 Listen, it was me who set Joey Doyle up for the muggers.
Come take a walk with me, kid, and give it to me straight. There's nothing I haven't heard.
 It started as a favor for my brother you know they'd ask me things and it's hard to say no a favor Who am I kiddin'? They call it a favor but it's do it or else. And this time the favor turned out to be helping them knock off Joey. I just thought they'd lean on him a little but Last night with Edie I wanted to tell her only it stuck in my throat. I guess I was scared of drivin' her away and I love her, Father. She's the first thing I ever loved.
 What are you going to do?
About Edie?
Edie. The Commission. Your subpoena. I know you got a subpoena.
It's like carrying a monkey around on your back.
 A question of who rides who.
If I spill, my life won't be worth a nickel.
How much is your soul worth if you don't?
But it's my own brother they're askin' me to finger and Johnny Friendly. His mother and my mother was first cousins. When I was this high he took me to the ball games... .
 Ball games! Don't break my heart! I wouldn't care if he gave you a life pass to the Polo Grounds. So you got a brother. Well, let me tell you something you got some other brothers and they're all getting the short end while your cousin Johnny gets mustard on his face at the Polo Grounds. If I was you  Listen, I'm not asking you to do anything, Terry. It's your own conscience that's got to do the asking.
Conscience... .  I didn't even know I had one until I met you and Edie... this conscience stuff can drive you nuts.
 Good luck.
 Is that all you've got to say to me, Father?
It's up to you. Just one more thing. You better tell Edie.
Edie... Edie... ..
 Terry, what's wrong?
I've been sittin' in the church.
You?
 Yeah, yeah, it's up to me, it's up to me he says it's up to me.
Who says?
The Father. The Father.
Terry what's happening to you?
I just told the Father.
Told him what?
What I did to Joey.
 You... .
 What I did to Joey.
Don't tell me don't tell me!
 Edie it's
Didn't know
but don't you see, Edie, I never thought they'd (then hysterically as he feels her turning away from him) I don't know what to do, Edie, I don't know what to do! I swear to God I
 Edie... Edie... What'll I do, Edie, what'll I do?
Hey, Terry, guess who's here... that joker from the Commission... .
Looking for me?
He's got his nerve, gum-shoeing around here after what you told him.
 Jimmy, suppose I knew something, say a mug somebody put on somebody... .  You think I should turn him in?
A cheese-eater!  You're kidding!
Yeah, I'm kidding, I'm kidding. You don't think I should turn him in... .
 You was a Golden Warrior.
Yeah us Golden Warriors.  You're a good kid, Jimmy, a good tough kid. We stick together, huh, kid?
You was our first Supreme Commander, Terry. Keep out of sight and I'll tell him you're out.
But I ain't out. I'm in. I'm in. Who's lying to who?
You looking for me?
Not exactly. Just thought I'd sit down and rest my dogs a minute.  You know the next investigation we get into I hope it's got buildings with elevators in them. This one has been nothing but climbing stairs. And when we hit the top oor the folks are usually out.
 I guess it's pretty tough work at that.
 Well, it'll be worth it if we can tell the waterfront story the way the people have a right to hear it. Don't you think?
Didn't I see you fight in the Garden one night three or four years ago? With a fellow called Wilson?
 Wilson yeah  yeah I fought Wilson.
I thought you were going to take him that night but...
 You want to know something I would have taken Wilson
I think you could have.
If I licked him I would have had the title shot instead of him boy, I was ready that night.
You sure looked it. Something go wrong?
Yeah. Johnny Friendly and my brother had other ideas.
Such as what?
 Listen, this ain't for publication.
 I'm just resting my feet.
Remember the first round how I had him against the ropes, and
I'll never forget it. I thought it was all over.
Yeah. My own blood and they sell me out for a lousy bet I had it in me to hit the top and  Boy, if I wanted to, the things I could tell you about them guys 
 Yeah?
 Well, I better get going. Hit those stairs again.  Was that a looping right or an uppercut the first time you caught him?
 Looping right! I never swung wild. I was strictly a short puncher hooks over 'n under  whop-whop!
Really?
Yeah, really!
Where you going? I'll walk along with you.
 Sure... .
I didn't hear them, boss, but I sure seen them, walking along and smiling like a pair of lovers.
 Drink up, Charley. We're ahead of you.
 I'm not thirsty.
 After what we been hearing about your brother, I thought your throat'd be kind of dry.
So they're walking along and smiling. That doesn't mean he's going to talk. There's no evidence until he gives public testimony.
Thanks for the legal advice, Charley. That's what we always kept you around for.  Now how do we keep him from giving this testimony? Isn't that the er as you put it main order of business?
 He was always a good kid. You know that.
He'sa bum. After all the days I give him in the loft he got no gratitude.
 Please, Mac, I'm conducting this  investigation.
This girl and the Father got their hooks in him so deep he doesn't know which end is up anymore.
I ain't interested in his mental condition. All I want to know is, is he D 'n D or is he a canary?
I wish I knew.
So do I, Charley. For your sake.
What do you want me to do, Johnny?
Very simple. Just bring him to... that place we been using. Mac, you take care of the details. Call Gerry G. in if you think you need him.
Gerry G!! You don't want to do that, Johnny! Sure the boy's outa line, but he's just a confused kid.
Confused kid? First he crosses me in public and gets away with it and then the next joker, and pretty soon I'm just another fellow down here.
 Johnny, I can't do that. I can't do that, Johnny.
 Then don't.
But my own kid bro
 This is for you to figure out. You can have it your way or you can have it his way.  But you can't have it both ways.  Am I right, Sonny?
Definitely!
 Okay, on your horse, you deep thinker.
Gee, Charley, I'm sure glad you stopped by for me. I needed to talk to you. What's it they say about blood, it's 
 Thicker than water.
 Where to?
Four thirty-seven River Street.
River Street? I thought we was going to the Garden.
I've got to cover a bet there on the way over. Anyway, it gives us a chance to talk.
 Nothing ever stops you from talking, Charley.
The grapevine says you picked up a subpoena.
 That's right... .
 Of course, the boys know you too well to mark you down for a cheese-eater.
Mmhmm.
You know, the boys are getting rather interested in your future.
Mmhmmm.
They feel you've been sort of left out of things, Terry. They think it's time you had a few little things going for you on the docks.
A steady job and a few bucks extra, that's all I wanted.
Sure, that's all right when you're a kid, but you'll be pushing thirty pretty soon, slugger. It's time you got some ambition.
I always figured I'd live longer without it.
Maybe.
There's a slot for a boss loader on the new pier we're opening up.
 Boss loader!
Ten cents a hundred pounds on everything that moves in and out. And you don't have to lift a finger. It'll be three-four hundred a week just for openers.
And for all that dough I don't do nothin'?
Absolutely nothing. You do nothing and you say nothing. You understand, don't you, kid?
 Yeah yeah I guess I do but there's a lot more to this whole thing than I thought, Charley.
You don't mean you're thinking of testifying against 
I don't know I don't know! I tell you I ain't made up my mind yet. That's what I wanted to talk to you about.
 Listen, Terry, these piers we handle through the locals you know what they're worth to us?
I know. I know.
Well, then, you know Cousin Johnny isn't going to jeopardize a setup like that for one rubber-lipped
 Don't say that!
 ex-tanker who's walking on his heels ?
Don't say that!
What the hell!!!
I could have been better!
The point is there isn't much time, kid.
 I tell you, Charley, I haven't made up my mind!
Make up your mind, kid, I beg you, before we get to four thirty-seven River... .
 Four thirty-seven that isn't where Gerry G...?
Charley... you wouldn't take me to Gerry G... .?
Take the boss loading, kid. For God's sake. I don't want to hurt you.
 Charley... . Charley... . Wow... .
 I wish I didn't have to do this, Terry.
 Wow... .
 What do you weigh these days, slugger?
 ...eight-seven, eighty-eight. What's it to you?
 Gee, when you tipped one seventy-five you were beautiful. You should've been another Billy Conn. That skunk I got to manage you brought you along too fast.
It wasn't him!  It was you, Charley. You and Johnny. Like the night the two of youse come in the dressing room and says, "Kid, this ain't your night we're going for the price on Wilson." It ain't my night. I'd of taken Wilson apart that night! I was ready remember the early rounds throwing them combinations. So what happens This bum Wilson he gets the title shot outdoors in the ballpark! and what do I get a couple of bucks and a one-way ticket to Palookaville.  It was you, Charley. You was my brother. You should of looked out for me. Instead of making me take them dives for the short-end money.
 I always had a bet down for you. You saw some money.
 See! You don't understand!
I tried to keep you in good with Johnny.
You don't understand! I could've been a contender. I could've had class and been somebody. Real class. Instead of a bum, let's face it, which is what I am. It was you, Charley.
It was you, Charley... .
 Okay I'll tell him I couldn't bring you in. Ten to one they won't believe it, but go ahead, blow. Jump out, quick, and keep going... and God help you from here on in.
 Now take me to the Garden.
 Who is it?
Edie, it's me let me in it's me!
 Stop it! Stop it! Get away from here!
Leave me alone. I want you to leave me alone!
I had to, Edie. I had to see you.
Lucky Pop isn't home, he'd kill you.
You think I stink, don't you? You think I stink for what I told you?
I don't want to talk about it. I want you to go.
 Edie, listen to me! I want you to believe me. I want to be with you.
 How can you be with Charley and Johnny Friendly and still be with me? Either way it's a lie. It's like there were two different people inside of you. You've got to be one or the other.
 I don't want to hurt Charley I don't want to hurt you...
It's you who's being hurt. By keeping it inside you, like a poison. Sooner or later it's got to come out.
I know what you want me to do!
I don't want you to do anything. Let your conscience tell you what to do.
 That  word again! Why do you keep saying conscience, conscience... .
I never mentioned the word before. In his agony he grips a glass standing on the night table.
I keep hearing it and I don't know what to do..I don't know what to do... .
My hand.
It's just a scratch. You won't die. She turns away from him.
Edie...
Get away from me.
Edie, I need you to love me. Tell me you love me.
I didn't say I didn't love you. I said stay away from me.
 Edie, Edie, I...
Stay away from me  Stay away from me  Stay
away from me!
 Charley?
Charley's waitin' for ya. Come on down and see him.
 Don't go. Don't go.
But Charley maybe Charley needs me. I better see what he wants.
 Terry...
 Terry... .
You hear what I heard?
That's the same way they called Andy out the night I lost him.
Bangand the sound of a police siren. She raises her hands to her head and cries.
Terry.
And now for your weekly dramatic thrill straight from the files of the City's Finest Police Patrol... . 
Terry!
Don't go down!
Terry!
Tippi-tippi-tin, tippi-Tin... .
Drop dead!
 Spit on me, curse me and stone me, but I suffer for your sins... .
Go suffer somewhere else, you bum.
I seen it. I seen them put him to death! I heard him cry out.
 Who. Who did you see?
His executioners. They was stabbing him in his side. And his soft eyes was looking down at them.
Tell me who.
 Our Lord Jesus. When He died to save us...
 Oh get away get away!
Terry!
 Terry, I'm frightened. More and more frightened.
I'm looking for Charley. I heard Charley was waiting for me.  Charley?
 Hey, Charley... .
Looking for me, Charley?
Hey Charley.
He's dead. He's dead. Those scummy, good-for-nuthin' butchers!.
Behind me. Behind me. It may be them coming back!
 Terry, let's go away.
Charley.
 I mean it, let's get away from here, first Joey then Nolan, now Charley and any minute... .  ...I'm frightened I'm frightened.
I'll take it out of their skulls.
I don't want to see you killed. I want to live with you. Live with you. Any place it's safe to walk the streets without... .
 I'll take it out of their skulls.
Terry, no, no... .
Don't hang on to me. And don't follow me. Don't follow me.  Call the Father. Ask him to take care of Charley for me. My brother. There's something I got to do.
 They put a hole in Charley. I'll put holes in them.
Terry, go home. There's nothing you can do now. It's locked up.
Terry, you're bleeding.
 Do what I told you. Take care of Charley.
Terry, for God's sake.
Get out of my way.
No, I can't let you. I can't, you're
 I don't want to hurt you, but... out of my way!
 Is Johnny in?
No.
 No?
 Give me a double.
Take it easy now, Terry.
Keep the advice. Give me the whiskey.
What's wrong with your shoulder?
 Hit me again.
 Listen, kid, why don't you go home before Johnny... .
 No advice. Just whiskey.
 Easy. Easy, boy.
 What'll you have?
Thanks just the same.
You ought to go home and take care of that
 First things first.
I want to see you, Terry.
You got eyes. I'm right in front of you.
Now don't give me a hard time.
What do you want from me, Father.
 Your gun.
Mind your own business, Father.
This is my business.
Why don't you go and chase yourself?
Give me that gun.
You go to hell.
 What did you say?
 You go to
Why you... .
 Get wise to yourself, you bum.
 Take your hands off me. What you call me?
 A bum. Look what you're doing. You want to be brave? Firing lead into another man's flesh isn't brave. Any bum who picks up a .45 in a pawn shop can be that brave. You want to hurt Johnny Friendly? You want to fix him for what he did to Charley and a dozen men who were better than Charley? Don't fight him like a hoodlum down here in the jungle. That's just what he wants. He'll hit you in the head and plead self-defense. Fight him tomorrow in the courtroom with the truth as you know it  Truth is the gun Drop that thing and tell the truth a more dangerous weapon than this little (reaches into Terry's pocket and removes the gun as he talks) cap pistol.
That is, if you've got the guts. If you haven't, you better hang on to this.
You want a beer?  Two beers.
Father, there is one thing I'd like to do.
 Tell Johnny I was here.
 ... nice boy... .
We show Terry walking slowly towards his seat. Edie and Father Barry are in the audience. Also Johnny and some of the mob. We hear the dialogue
You mean to sit there and tell me that your local takes in sixty-five thousand, five hundred dollars every year and keeps no financial records?
Sure we keep records!
Well, where are they?
 We was robbed last night and we can't find no books.
Doesn't it seem odd to you that five different waterfront locals were broken into last night and the only articles removed were financial records?
 What do you mean, odd? We was robbed like I told you.
 That's all. Next witness!
Name?
Terrence Francis Malloy.
Do you swear to tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, so help you God?
 Right... I do.
 Mr. Malloy, is it true that on the night Joey Doyle was found...
...dead you were the last person to see him before he was pushed off the roof, and that you went immediately to the Friendly Bar where you expressed your feelings about the murder to Mr. Johnny Friendly?
That's right.
.. Thank you, Mr. Malloy, you've done more than to break the case of Joey Doyle, you have held up a lamp of truth in the dark cave of waterfront crime. You may step down now.
 You're a walkin' dead man! You're dead on this waterfront and every other waterfront from Boston to New Orleans. You won't go anywhere, drive a truck or a cab or push a baggage rack without one of my guys have the eye on you. You just dug your own grave, dead man, go fall in it! 
Sorry, Miss, our orders is to keep everybody away.
Next witness, Mr. Michael J. Skelly, also known as Johnny Friendly... .
 Hi Chick  Jackie...
 Have to walk right on top of me?
Orders, Terry.
You're stepping on my heels you're making me nervous.
Terry, you're hot, you know that, you should be glad we're this close to you.
Trailing me like that, you make me feel like a canary.
 Well?
Now beat it go ahead beat it.
Take it easy, Terry, take it easy.
Edie.
I thought you might want some hot coffee.
 Thanks just the same.
Well, it's over.
But I feel like My friends won't talk to me.
 Are you sure they're your friends?
 Hey, Jimmy how's the kid?
Hey, Jimmy!
Jimmy too.
A pigeon for a pigeon... !
 Swifty my lead bird
 Jimmy...
He's going to have to grow up too.
 My pigeons... .
Terry, you better stay in for a while. I'll come and cook your meals. Be sure you keep the door locked.
 Every one of 'em... .
You heard what Johnny said. No part of the Waterfront'll be safe for you now. Maybe inland the Middle West somewhere a job on a farm... .
 Farm...
Does it have to be the waterfront! Pop, he's an old man, it's all he knows, but you you could do lots of things, get into something new, anything as long as it's away from Johnny Friendly!
Doesn't that make sense!
I don't think you're even listening to me!
...are you?
You're going down there!
 Just because Johnny warned you not to, you're going down there, aren't you?
You think you've got to prove something to them, don't you? That you are not afraid of them and you won't be satisfied until you walk right into their trap, will you?
Then go ahead go ahead! Go down to the shape-up and get yourself killed, you stupid, pigheaded, son of a  What are you trying to prove? With a decisive gesture Terry takes the hook and sticks it through his belt. Then he goes to the wall and lifts Joey's windbreaker from the nail on which it has been hanging. He puts the windbreaker on in a deliberate way, and grins at her as he does so; then he walks to the door with a sense of dignity he has never had before.
 You always said I was a bum. Well  not anymore. I'm going down to the dock. Don't worry, I'm not going to shoot anybody. I'm just going to get my rights.  Joey's jacket. It's time I start wearing it.
Other longshoremen instinctively move away from him as he approaches.
I need fifteen gangs today. Everybody works!
 You're still a man short for that last hatch gang, Mac.
 Hey, Sonny, go across to the bar and pick up the first man you see.
Where are them cops of yours, stoolie? You're gonna need 'em.
That ain't a bad picture of you, boss.
I wish you'd let us go to work on that cheese-eater.
 After we get off the front page. Then he's mine. I want him.
Here's your man, Mac.
Okay.
You want more of the same? Come back tomorrow.
 He's comin' down!
He's gotta be crazy!
 Yeah, here comes the bum now. I'll top 'im off lovely.
Gimme that.
 How are we gonna protect ourselves?
Ever hear of the Sullivan Law? Carrying a gun without a permit? They'll be on us for anything now. The slightest infraction. Give.  All of you? Give give give
We're a law-abidin' union. Understand? (As he puts the guns in the safe and slams the safe door.) A law-abidin' union!
 Hey, Friendly! Johnny Friendly, come out here!
 You want to know the trouble with you? You think it makes you a big man if you can give the answers.
Listen, Johnny
Go on beat it. Don't push your luck.
You want to know somethin'?
I said beat it! At the right time I'll catch up with you. Be thinkin' about it.
 You want to know something? Take the heater away and you're nothin' take the good goods away, and the kickback and the shakedown cabbage away and the pistoleros  away and you're a great big hunk of nothing  Your guts is all in your wallet and your trigger finger!
 Go on talkin'. You're talkin' yourself right into the river. Go on, go on... .
 I'm glad what I done today, see? You give it to Joey, you give it to Nolan, you give it to Charley who was one of your own. You thought you was God Almighty instead of a cheap connivinggood-for-nothing bum! So I'm glad what I done you hear me? glad what I done!
 You ratted on us, Terry.
 From where you stand, maybe. But I'm standing over here now. I was rattin' on myself all them years and didn't know it, helpin' punks like you against people like Pop and Nolan an'... .
 Come on. I want you. You're mine. You're mine! Come on!
That kid fights like he useta!
They'll kill 'im!  It's a massacre! etc.
That's enough. Let 'im lay there.
 What happened?  What happened?
 Tommy, what happened?
Where you goin'?
 Let me by.
You want 'im?  You can have 'im. The little rat's yours.
 Get some fresh water.
Terry...?
Terry... Terry... .
Who's in charge here? We gotta get this ship going. It's costing us money.
 Come on! Let's get goin'!
I said c'mon!
How about Terry? If he don't work, we don't work.
 Work! He can't even walk!
Come on! Get in there!  Come on, you!
 All my life you pushed me around.
 Come on, get me outa here.
Let's go! Time is money!
You hoid 'im. Terry walk in, we walk in with 'im.
 They're waiting for him to walk in.
You hear that, Terry?  Terry, did you hear that?  You lost the battle but you have a chance to win the war. All you gotta do is walk.
 ...walk?
Johnny Friendly is layin' odds that you won't get up.
 Come on, you guys!
 Get me on my feet.
Am I on my feet...?
Terry...?
You're on your feet. You can finish what you started.
You can!
 I can? Okay.  Okay...
 What are you trying to do?
Leave him alone. Take your hands off him Leave him alone.
 All right let's go to work!
 Where you guys goin'? Wait a minute!
I'll be back! I'll be back! And I'll remember every last one of ya!
