...so she said to him, "poo-poo on your pee-pee".
Did you just cut a big one or is Suzie back in town?
One lump you idiot.
How many lumps?
ONE!!!!!!!!!!!!!
 Randy, defrost the "Beefy Cheese Louise".
Yes, sir.
Not bad business for a Wednesday.
USED CARS AND TRUCKS: 14U DON'T PASS THE BUCK"
Before you fall out for chow, you yellow-bellied, jelly-spine, you march directly out there, soldier, engage the enemy, and DON'T let them look under the hood.
 But, but the engine --
Mister, the only BUT I want to hear from you is, "my butt's out there selling that vehicle". Move out!
Yes sir, Lucky Buck.
Mister, you are one sorry piece of poop.
Horton Thursby.
I'm sorry, there's no one here by that name.
 What did you say?
I s-s-said, no one here, that name.
Because that's my name, tubby.
 W-who shall I say is calling?
 Horton Thursby.
Uh-huh, I s-s-see your name right here.
I have a pointment with Mr. Biggs, bean brain.
Indeed you do, of course you do, you certainly do, he's expecting you, he's set aside the time to --
 That's enough.
 Ma-Mr. Thuraby, if you'd like to take the Ex-exec-executive Elevator --
International Airport, please.
You are here.
That may be, however I have a plane to catch.
Please. This IS the airport.
Thank you so much.
Professor Zinzermacher?
 No, I'm Professor Zinzermacher.
I am Professor Hugo Zinzermacher. Hugo you way und I'll go mine.
Bert Fine.
Mel Gleason. It's an honor to meet you, sir.
You boys seemed a bit confused at first.
It's a long flight from Kansas, we're a little jet lagged.
That's us. Have your ticket, Professor?
Well, I don't mind if I do. What kind?
Would you mind going through your pockets, Professor --
And see if you're in possession of an airline ticket to Kansas.
 What if we relate the vector on a parallelogram, equidistant to but not exceeding the bifurcation of the remaining cardinal coordinates?
Mel, go through his coat --
 You can bet that plane's going to leave on time.
There was something in the report about his socks...
Let's move.
He can't even tie his own shoes, yet he's one of the greatest minds of Western Civilization, and who's got him? Company "A"!! According to Mr. Posthole, our worthy mole who's penetrated the innermost sanctums of Company "A" --
-- they've purchased Professor Zinzermacher's brainpower for their covert Center for Advanced Nucleacly Abritrary Permutations Experimentation, also known as C.A.N.A.P.E. Yes, they've got the Professor. But, ladies and gentlemen, not for long, because we've got Mr. Horton Thursby.
Thursby, this... is your target.
It's your money.
Where have you been? Do you realize what time it is? (appearing around a corner) I'll tell you what time it is, Gordie, what time is it?
Sixteen hundred hours. Time to bivouac.
Sometimes I think you're stupider than your Cousin Newt, don't you realize what we were supposed to do tonight?
Newt's an idiot.
We were supposed to look at our video BEFORE dinner so we could practice DURING dinner. I suppose you forgot the wine, too.
I had a --
Are you going to give me an excuse? You were going to give me an excuse, weren't you? Wally? Do I look like the type of person who'd be interested in an excuse?
Don't you touch that rash! You'll keep me up all night with your scratching! (Wally slumps in the chair) If I was really interested in hearing some pitiful story don't you think I'd ask to hear it? Do I look like the type of person who lives in a fantasy world? Look at me, Wally. Wally, look at me when I'm talking to you, what do you see? Hmm? (Wally shakes his head) Do you see a poor, tired housewife, holding our lives together by sheer force of will, who received today a phone call? A phone call from your rich relatives up at the Manor who didn't otherwise even know I'm alive, who asked ME to ask YOU to please pick up your idiot cousin Newt tomorrow at the airport? Do you have any idea how humiliating that is?
Sniff the cork along with us now and let its heady bouquet transport you into the Wonderful World of Wine Tasting! Part Two. 
You've made your selection, and by the sommelier's sly little smile you know he approves. The wine's been decanted, it's had a chance to b-r-e- a-t-h-e. It sits, poised in your glass, a ruby nectar beckoning your lips.  Now, band forward... a little further... a little further, that's right...
Extend the neck... imagine your lips forming the perfect letter "o"... lower the "o" to the rim... now, remember the babbling brook...
...and again...
So all I really need is your signature here, Dr. Flord, and we can release Newt Newton for his annual visit home.
You know, he's not even left us yet and it's as if I miss Newt already. When I'm with him, of course I'm always with him in spirit, as I am with all our patients, even now, against all evidence to the contrary, I sense some small spark of mental activity behind those bulging eyes. Perhaps this is a projection on my part. A projection filled with a physician's unquenchable hopefulness.
Uh-huh.
Has it been a year already? It seems it was only last week when he was flying off to the bosom of his family, when in fact three hundred and sixty five days, give or take a few -- this wasn't a leap year was it? No, of course not. Ah, remembrances -- remembrances.
I only need your signature --
Was it March of last year when my Aunt was fitted for her prosthesis? I suppose it was. What a difference it made, how it changed her! In ways one couldn't possibly imagine. First, the new carpeting. Inexplicable perhaps, at first glance. But on closer scrutiny, however, an underpinning of rationality seemed to emerge.
Only your signature. Please, Doctor.
 As if creation, splintered into a hundred million realities, was actually nothing less than the complicated interweavings... (locking his fingers together) ...of one, grand design. Well-hidden, mind you, but upon deeper examination, open the doors... (he opens his hands and wiggles his fingers) ...and there's all the people. (a small, vanilla chuckle) And of course that's when I realized Aunt Hildy had friends and had purchased a pet. Which brings me back to Newt. Isn't it odd how every Newton since Newt's Grandad has been struck by lightning? Newt's Grandad was struck by lightning. He's a complete idiot. Newt's father was struck by lightning. He's no longer with us. And of course Newt was struck by lightning and by golly, he's a complete idiot. And all of them were named Newton. Newton Newton. Newton Newton. Newton Newton...
Those eyes. Those bulging, happy puppy eyes.
Have you seen Newt?
Helping out in ze kitchen. Assemble all ze men; tomorrow we march on Moscow.
Thank you, your Highness and good luck tomorrow.
We will need it; zose beasts haf no souls. I hope ze weather holds. I saw Bing Crosby in a dream.
 Thank you, Brother -- you're too kind -- don't mention it --
Unstrap Newt, I've got his sock in the car --  Time to go home, Newt.
Can I pee?
Yes, in just a moment, Newt.
 Rock' em-sock' em.
Be sure to walk him onto the plane yourself, fasten his seatbelt, remember to tell the Stewardess no liquids for Newt and don't let them check his sock, it's carry on. His cousin Wally will be there to meet him in Newtonville.  Newt, the whole staff will miss you and I'll miss you, too.
Two. Zero. One. Two --
Have a wonderful time at home, Newt.
MY NAME IS NEWT ARE YOU MY COUSIN WALLY?"
Boys, you've packed your load/ And it's time to hit the road/ Let the slowpokes eat your dust/ It's Newtonville or bust/ Let the highway be your heyday/ And I'll see you here on payday.
Please, boys, please/ Be careful with that cheese/ For the Beefy Cheese Louise/ If anything should happen/ You'll put me in a squeeze/ You'll bring me to my knees/ I could lose all my fees/ Are you sure you've got your keys?  Watch out for all those trees! Hi- ho, hi-ho/ I hate to see you go/ We'll see you back here soon/ Remember: Newtonville by noon!
'BEN FRANKLIN' AIRPORT THE KEY TO ALL YOUR TRAVEL NEEDS BEN SAYS, 'CHARGE IT!!'"
Watch your loaf, luv.
 Wait here, Bobby ducks. Back in a tick with Bert, Mel and the Professor.
Standin' by, ready to stab it and steer. Go on, plant one on me boat. Come on then.
What a butcher's; makes me want to fall to me chips'ns.
I am Professor Hugo Zinzermacher. Hugo your way und I'll go mine.
I gotta pee so bad I can taste it.
Me too, Mel. My bladder's stretched out like a water balloon.
Did you check your bag, Professor?
Unfortunately no; they took it from me at the other airport.
Are you his Cousin Wally?
Yes, sir, I am. Where's his sock?
We'll be right back.
We're going to the men's room.
Can I pee?
Soon as I get your bag, Newt.
Rock' em-sock'em?
 I'll be right back, Newt. I see your bag right there.
It was only lightning.
The Hank, usual?
SECTION FOUR CODE SIX CLEARANCE REQUIRED"
Time to go, Newt.
Where?
 To the Manor?
I thought we would go to the... Institute.
You just came from the Institute.
Oh, I see.
Sorry we're late, Alice.
We were bobbin' like a cork.
We'd been holding our water since Zurich.
Where's Bob going?
 Jump in, Mates, and make it snappy; I'm ridin' a rhino in a brushfire.
Follow that limo!
What a load a' crap.
So it would seem.
I have a feeling we're not in Zurich anymore.
You said a mouthful there, buddy.
Did we do something wrong?
 I see this sort'a stuff every day; the whole world's comin' apart.
I gotta admit though, this one's somethin' special.
As you know... Newt... is coming home. He will be arriving momentarily. You will recall two years ago, due to a former employee's negligence, one of the garages was not secured. Newt crawled into the workings of the furnace; during the six months it took to undo his handiwork we suffered through the coldest winter in recent memory. Black smoke issued from the faucets. Boiling water was found in the toilets. Thermostat circuitry was hardwired to all the baking ovens. Yes, as a result Chef Pierre did develop his "Jiffy Baked Alaska", which we've all enjoyed, he also developed a rare skin disorder from working in the 113 degree kitchen.
Cis la'vie.
I want the following words engraved in the core of your beings: this year there will be no such incidents. If air can reach a hidden place, so can Newt. If water can flow through a crack, there too Newt will go. Readiness. Vigilance. Perseverance. May God be with us all.
 Welcome home, Master Newt. Hello, Wally.
Who are the goons?
Help for you-know-who. Come along, Newt, we've got the Rocking Horse room all ready for you.
Two big assistants. This is good.
 What a tremendous improvement. (goes to the Professor- as-Newt) Can you say anything else?
As I was saying to Bert and Mel, if we relate the vector on a parallelogram, allowing the azimuth to intersect but not confirm the dimensional factors contributing to the parameters of the logarithmic module, it won't necessarily be a part of it.
Still an idiot.
Where's his sock?  Never mind, let's not upset him. (quietly to Horton-as- Wally) We've got duplicates.
You didn't want to... come in, did you, Wally?
What did you say?
 I said, would you like to come in?
What would I want to go in there for? I got a home of my own, pal.
 If you could show me to my room I'll start work immediately.
 What did you have planned, Master Newt?
As you know from my letters, I hope to make a massive breakthrough. It came to me while contemplating a large, smooth concrete floors.
Very good, Master Newt.  Get Gordon Cole on the phone; I want a complete inventory of all our floor systems.
Center for Advanced Nucleacly Arbitrary Permutation Experimentation A DIVISION OF COMPANY A.
TOP SECRET
This is one of the proudest moments of my life. I can safely say I speak for everyone here when I tell you that with you pulling your oar in our shell we'll be at the mouth of the Charles before you can sing three bars of the Whiffenpoof song. Just dandy. (getting a little uncomfortable) What a darling little pooch. (Newt-as-the-Professor continues to smile blankly and shake his hand) Do you know my wife, Simone?
 Professor, je suis tres heureux a faire votre connaissance.
 The Professor hit Mel.
I must have provoked him.
 Can I pee?
 Yes, C.A.N.A.P.E. (he refers to his C.A.N.A.P.E. security badge) And please be assured, the Center for Advanced Nucleacly Arbitrary Permutation Experimentation is absolutely thrilled to have you here. Please, be assured of this.
Can I pee?
 What is it, exactly, that you're confused about?
That could explain a lot.
We should'a let him go when we got off the plane.
We should'a let him go when he got off the plane.
 I've a few eccentrics swinging from my own family tree. If he delivers the "massive breakthrough" he's promised in correspondence, believe you me, we'll put up with the best the Professor can muster in the Peculiar Behavior Department.
 Put me through to Colonel Mofler...  Colonel Mofler?... Corporal Gumm. Sir, we've got a tuna on the line. Yes, sir, a verified tuna.
Thank you, Corporal. I don't need to remind you this is Code Six...
Holy jumping George...
 A TUNA!!?? A TUNA!!??
 Yes, Sir, prelim's indicate an albacore...
That's white meat!!!
Yes, Sir; an emission.
ARE YOU TRYING TO TELL ME THAT THING PEED!!!!????
Yes, Sir, a contained pinpoint emission somewhere in Friendly Delta Forty.
 FRIENDLY!! GAHHHH!!  Delta? Delta Forty?
Kansas.
It peed on Kansas? THAT THING PEED ON KANSAS!!!???
Sir... uh, should we notify, uh, the, uh, Commander in, uh, Chief?
NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO!!!!!!!
 Mofler, call an ambulance.
Hey, Horton. What's happening?
 Not much. What's happening with you... Vinnie?
 Not much.
 Me and the boys was wondering what a guy named Mr. Biggs is doing up in front of your apartment.
Why didn't you ask him?
 Okay, Horton, sure, it's none of our business, you know us, always lookin' for a taste of the action.
Would you like me to ask him for you, Mr. Underwood?
 No, no, come on, Horton, you know us, we're not tryin' to muscle in, you're the man, you call the shots.
I'm going upstairs now.
Sure, Horton, sure. So, same time for drinks tonight, huh Horton?
Why not, Mr. Underwood?
 What'd he say?
 Something stinks, big. Pew. He kept calling my Mr. Underwood.
 That's your name.
Mr. Schmaty Pants: my name's Jimmy! That guy, maybe he's been on top too long. Lemme tell you something; the bigger they are, the harder they fall. (the Gangsters mutter agreement) Hey Vinnie, how 'bout a round a' cheeseburgers?
 Con mucho queso.
 Sorry, gents, looks like we're fresh outta cheese.
So? Has the deed been done?
 I'm going to march right out there and engage the enemy.
Every second that genius' brain is working for Company "A", a fog of trouble engulfs our enterprise in a cloud of uncertainty.  One twenty-five cent bullet, Mr. Thuraby, delivered in a timely fashion, will spell victory for Company "B"
And I'll bet there's no butts about it.
I think we understand each other.
 In China they eat dogs.
Lucky for you we're not in China.
Didn't anyone ever tell you it's dangerous to play with firearms?
Wally, did you remember to pick up the cheese for the wine and cheese -- (she turns the corner and sees them) WALLY!!! GET OFF MY CHILD THIS INSTANT!! WHAT ARE YOU DOING!! I'LL KNOCK YOU INTO THE MIDDLE OF NEXT WEEK!!!
What did you say?
YOU ARE IN SERIOUS, SERIOUS TROUBLE, MISTER!! I'LL SPANK YOUR BOTTOM SO HARD YOU WON'T BE ABLE TO SIT FOR A --
That's... enough.
 Boy, I haven't been skating in years... you know I must have driver by this place a hundred times and this is the first time I even noticed it was here... hey, Jane, you come here often?... it's the strangest thing; I was just standing there holding the baby and I suddenly got this urge to skate; I ended up bringing the baby-sitter... I take a nine, Big Tom...
This is not bad business for a Thursday.
How many lumps, Woody?
ONE!!! RANDY, ONE!!!
One lump, coming up, Woody.
 Sure thing, Mister Memory.
Hey, Randy, six Beefy Cheese Louise... man, I'm so hungry I could eat a horse... me, too... me three and I just ate lunch... me, too...
How many?
SIX!!
Cheese truck's here.
I got it.
What a coincidence.
That damn truck was filled with cheese.
Where's that much cheese gonna go?
 You want to try to explain this to me and a barnload of hungry skaters?
HMMM??!!
 It's the start of a brand new tomorrow today and what a beautiful day it is. The sun is shining brightly on Heinz 57. We've got the welcome mat out today --
-- wo, 'scuse me, guess I'm running on empty -- good thing for me we've got the Welcome Lunch out, too.  Good thing for me and for the thirty- five new reasons why Heinz 57 is Number One. Now I understand you folks are all from Lubbock, is that right?
Rubbock.
THE FABULOUS CHINESE ACROBATS FROM THE FAR PROVINCES"
Weren't you just here?
 Damn; finish one a' these, two minutes go by it's like I never et... stuff sure don't stick to your ribs... stuff's startin' to talk back to me... this beer wash' it down real good... 'question is, how far down's it gonna go?... and will it stay there, pa'dner... sompin' tells me this stuff'll repeat on ya...
 All right, girls, chop-chop --  Clockse say time for rehearsee, I'm not getting any younger, the band's paid by the hour - down with the food, on with the tights --
What do you think, boys? Should we kill him?
Ooh, quell macho behind the Bamboo Curtain -- Roger read you loud and clear, you angry Samurai; time to zippee my lippee.
Play something!
Ooh.
 Hey, Pappy... touch break... good to see you back in the saddle... guess you're gonna make that barbecue Saturday, eh Pappy?
 Tell me about the fish.
Sir, that tuna's been gaffed and he's coming on deck now --
What've we got!!
 Confined to the limits of one small town.  Newtonville, Kansas.
That's IT??!! We're talking about fist piss, what the hell did it DO??!!
Uh, possible impact on basic metabolic processes. Negative, uh, infringement on calcium and magnesium molecular structures. Uh, very likely some compulsive hyperkinetic rebalancing --
CUT THE CRAP!!!!!!!!!!!! YOU TELL ME, COLONEL, WHAT THE HELL ARE WE PULLING UP ON DECK!!
Well, Sir, there's one thing we can say for certain; Newtonville sure as hell isn't going to have any cheese.
Load 'er up.
How many rounds in a Luger magazine?
Nine, Sir.
What's the range on that Kalishnikov?
Accurate to three-hundred yards, Sir.
Do you ever point a loaded weapon at another human being if you don't intend to use it?
No, Sir, never, Sir.
That's good, Gordon. Tomorrow we're going to talk about hand-to-hand techniques. Now go tell your Mother we're ready to eat.
Yes, Sir, I sure am hungry.
You and me both, Junior.
 Wally, I don't appreciate one little bit being told by Gordie that you're ready to --
Dig in, Gordon. You'll need plenty of energy when we go hand-to-hand.
Wally, you'll remember we're having the wine and cheese get-together tomorrow evening and I'll need you to pick --  -- to remind me to pick up the wine and cheese in the morning.
 If we had some cheese, we could have a wine and cheese party, if we had some wine.
Son, you're bobbing like a boy who needs a pogo stick. What do you say we pick one up tomorrow?
 Gee, Dad, that'd be great -- what's a pogo stick?
 Don't you recognize these items, Master Newt?
These are the contents of your sock.
My sock.
That's right -- (picking each object up) This is your rock. This is your piece of string. This is your pink rubber pig. This is your record player and your very own record. See?
 Instantly I see a relationship to ze string.
 Yes. They were all in the sock.
All in ze sock?
All... in... the sock.
Ah, a frame of reference. (putting it all together) The sock... is my universe. I'm going to need a large chalkboard.
Master Newt, you've come a long, long way.
Halfway around the world.
Yes. Of course
Ladies and gentlemen, it gives me great pleasure to introduce one of the great legends of the blues, it's his first visit here to the Lightning Rod, direct from Gainesville, Florida, the one and only Stompin' Machine, Sammy "the Stomp" Johnson!
Hey, Horton, where's Lorraine?
Lorraine?
What the hell business is it of yours where she is?  Guy's got a deathwish, huh Horton? You gotta forgive a knothead like this.
Sorry I'm late.
What are you doin' sittin' with these creeps?
They're going to give me a drink.
You mean a Mickey.
Lighten up, Lorraine, you gonna stop a man from buying a man a drink in this oh-by-gosh-by-golly world?
Who me? 
If you're not gonna stop me... (Jimmy winks at the others) ...then I'm not gonna stop you. I can't stop you. And if I can't stop you, then --
I'd like to propose a toast...
To Mr. Horton Thuraby, the fastest gun in the west, with all good wishes for continued success, especially in whatever it is you might be doing at the present time, which we have not been let in on but tomorrow's a new day...
I was telling Big Tom I smell gas. And I still smell gas.
Well, this is where I get off.
You and me both, you animal.
 Thank you for a wonderful evening, Laura.
You clown -- oh, I see, you want to play Perfect Strangers, I like this.  Why don't you take me into your apartment, Harley and let's see if I can get that big engine of your's started?
 Fall out! Fall out! Secure the perimeter of Newtonville! No one gets in or out without my say-so! Move, move, move!
THERE'S NO CHEESE!!! THERE'S NO CHEESE!!!
These are all the things you asked for, Professor.
Four.
 For your work. You're sure there's nothing else you need?
Zero.
Okay, Professor.
We're going now.
We'll leave you to it.
He seems pretty preoccupied.
I'm sure he's got a lot on his mind.
One. Two. Three. Four. Five.
Zero.
One.
Two.
This is what we've been waiting for.
To watch an authentic genius at work.
 Three.
Four.
 Looks like he's getting warmed up.
He's priming the pump.
 That is one peculiar pump.
Five.
Candy Pigs. Candy Pigs.
I'd heard his methods were unorthodox.
Stand by on computers; we'll have to be on our toes... school is in session.
Now he's simulating a kinetic flow with the porcine symbol... my guess is he's establishing a spatial vector between the objects for the purpose of conceptual comparisons... (overwhelmed by the "brilliance") ... my God, I can't believe what I'm witnessing, tell Mr. Biggs he's shed more light on Arbitrary Permutation in the last three minutes than we got in two years out in the bush observing the Mystic Sufis --  Am I kidding myself, or does the dog represent Heisenberg's Uncertainty Principle?
Soldier, First Bugle's at 0900 hours, I'd like you to take a good long look at your timepiece, bedbug, and give me one good reason why I shouldn't dock you three minutes wages. You're a slacker, a slouch; the original sadsack.
Walk that butt of yours right over here. Private, I want to show you what put me off my breakfast this morning.
The most pitiful, the most sickening and embarrassing sales record it's ever been my misfortune to encounter. We're talking court martial. Dishonorable discharge.
What did you say?
 I said if this was Japan and I were to hand you the hari-kari blade and you were anything but the most miserable excuse for a man in this outfit --
That's enough.
The things you've been saying and this attitude you're expressing towards me are unacceptable. You will never do this again.
 I agree completely.
Fine. Let's sell some cars.
I'm all for it.
Thank you.
Good morning, Master Newt.
Sleep well, did you? Master Newt? Master Newt?
 Vhat kind of day is it? Is it a cloudy day? Or is it a pleasant day?
It's a pleasant day, Master Newt.
That's good. (they smile at each other) You're the fellow who was in here before.
Yes, I'm Tidman.
Tidman. You'll understand if I return to my work now.
Master Newt... it's time for your morning bath.
 Please, kind sir, can't you see... I am this close -- (holds up thumb and forefinger) -- this close -- these symbols are swimming, swarming in my mind like your bumblebees I've heard so much about -- what pulls and pushes is looking more and more like the interwoven fibers of the SOCK!!
 Do you see your pig?
 Yes?
You're just as dirty as a pig.
 I am? What does this mean?
It's time to see your Grandfather... it's time for your bath.
 Dirt... water... like a MEMBRANE!!
Master Newt?
 Don't you want to bring your pig?
 Vell, yes. I suppose I do.
Grandad, Master Newt is here.
That's not Newt.
Don't be mean, Grandad, Newt's come such a long way to see you. And I'll bet he'd love to hear your record; wouldn't you like to play it for him?
I would like to hear your record. Does it have any bearing on the pig? Or perhaps, dirt or a membrane of some kind?
Clean pig.
 A... clean... pig.
The Hank, usual?
General, if you'd like to follow me.
What is it?
I think we've got a nibble.
You smell that, Mofler?
What's that, Sir?
Tuna piss.
Yes, Sir. Ground Zero.
Mofler, you know what happens when tuna goes bad?
Gentleman, we've got twenty-four hours to cook this fish before it starts drawing flies from Washington. I don't have to tell you who'll have his barnacles scraped in drydock if that happens.
 Take a number, please... Lucky Buck'll get to you lucky shoppers as soon as he can...
 I've got to have that car... Wally said it was the car for me and I think he was right!... I love that car... Wally wants me to have this car and I don't want to upset him, he was quite insistent...
No.
 This is the car for you.
How can you tail a guy who don't go out of his room?
What are they doing up there?
No, I mean, this ain't like Horton; he don't mix business with pleasure.
Horton's beginning to act like an enigma.
I couldn't help overhearing what you gentlemen were discussing. I, too, have concern with regards to the behavior of Mr. Horton Thursby. Perhaps we can find a path through this thicket of doubt and confusion to a golden pagoda of mutual satisfaction.
You're Mr. Biggs.
Indeed I am, Sir. Let's talk turkey.
Con mucho queso.
There isn't gonna be any turkey or cheese. Your deal's with Thursby.
Until this moment. I consider it void for non-performance of services. Take Thursby out... and the deal is yours.
One, two, three...
 Gosh, I think you're peachy/ And I'll bet you'd look real swell/ In a swimsuit at the beachy/ You really ring my bell/ Gosh, of gosh, oh gosh.
If I keep this, will it start to smell?
Oh, Horton, this is the most romantic day we've ever spent.
Oh gosh.
If I feel anymore love I think I'll just wiggle right out of my skin!!
Awww. Me too.
 Interesting. But, somehow, vague.
 What the hell is he doing? We paid top dollar for this dimwit.
 Mrs. Corrigan, please, this is an intuitive, rhythmic translation of pure thought into interpretive kineseology.
Oh please.
We think it's a code. We just haven't cracked it yet.
I'll tell you what's cracked around here, he is. He was cracked when he got here.
Perhaps he was damaged in shipping.
 Pink slips, Mel.
Time to update those resumes.
 Our data indicates he's in the process of establishing the formula.
 Ah, the frustration of the layman.
 Might I suggest you read Smyth on the encoding of natural processes in syncopated Pygmy drumbeats?
 I think what Simone and I are trying to say, old boys, is that we're somewhat concerned, as anyone would be after a cash outlay of this magnitude, with no apparent return other than these inscrutable, albeit intriguing abstractions. (loses his train of thought) Company "A" is behind you one hundred percent.  Cracking good sandwiches, these. Sandwich, Simone?
 Yep. Haven't sold one of these things in years. Got a back order died on the shelf. Been clogging up my inventory since '59. Used to be I'd see kids bouncing all over Main Street on these things.  Wished I had a nickel for every one of these I saw bouncing by my window. Could'a sold this old shop. Could'a moved up ta Granny's farm 'fore the rheumatism took her. Yep, I --
 That's enough.
 This is great business, even for a Friday.
Pinch me, Woody, I think we're dreaming.
 Who are these people? They look like total strangers.
 Big Tom. I still smell --
Oh, the sound of many skates on wood.
 Where's my bozo gun?
Drop a net on that one, Mofler.
He's got trout farm written all over him.
 Kind'a big for Chinese.
Maybe the stage is small.
 Chinese food. Ix-nay on the Chinese food.
Evening, Horton.
 Evening. We're starved!
For food, that is, but not for anything else.
Two deluxe dinners, coming right up. 
 Have a seat with us, Horton. We've got plenty of room.
Gee, thanks, Mr. Underwood.
Buon appetito! 
 Horton, something's not right.
Yeah, this food is terrible.
No. Where's Jimmie?
Oh geez, Mr. Underwood, I'm so sorry, are you okay?
 Go ahead, finish me.
Was you dinner that bad, too? I could cook better than that. In fact I could cook a lot better than that.
 You cook?
Well... yeah, I cook.
 You cook? cook, too.
You guys cook? So do I.
No kidding? I love to cook.
Yo, tambien. Con mucho queso!!
I was always kind's afraid to say so.
Hey, there's nothing wrong with cooking.
Some of the world's greatest cooks are men. Maybe Vinnie will let you boys cook something.
 Anything'd be better than this slop... let 'em cook... hey, Vinnie, let 'em cook! (stomping as they shout) Let them cook! Let them cook! Let them cook!
 They can cook! They can cook!
 Whadda ya say, Hort?
Let's cook!
You're very quiet this evening, Wally.
Yes I am.
I suppose it's a little past your bedtime, huh Wally?
No. I just want to make sure Polly enjoys her party.
Cheese substitute? Cheese substitute?
Dick and I were wondering if you'd sold your first car yet, Wally.
Yeah, how long you been working there, 'bout fifteen years now, isn't it? You're headed for the Guiness Book of World Records there, Wally boy.
Dick, I'll have you know Wally's sold almost every car on the lot in the last two days.
There's a sucker born every minute and even a sucker can get a driver's license.
 Well, I'm very proud of Wally. Lucky Buck's make him a full partner.
I guess Lucky Buck threw himself on too many grenades.
 Dick? Are you trying to provoke Wally?
Full partner? Selling cars? Is Polly weaning you, Wally boy?
Excuse me?
Thought for sure there'd be a little rubber nipple on your glass there tonight. You know; per usual.
What did you say?
You heard me, Wimpy --
Goodnight.
Wally Newton!
 Polly Newton!
This one big enough, Horton?
That should do it, what do you think boys?
So, how's it coming along?
Vinnie, Vinnie don't bug us. We're working on something that's never been done before, ever.  Lorraine, a dash of cardomon seed. 
Sounds expensive.
Yes it is. We're not gonna lie to you, Vinnie, but we pull this off and the Michelin people are gonna need an extra star to rate this joint.
Gee, that's great. Kind of a Meals on Wheels sort of situation, what with the tires and the food and all.
Not the tire company, Vinnie, this Michelin is a snob outfit that rates swanky restaurants and when we're finished you're goin' right to the top of the list.
Wow.
Now if you can't stand the heat get out of the kitchen, Vinnie.
Boys, you ever see a man my age do something like this?
Give the word, Horton; all our specialities are ready.
Boys, I have a feeling what we're doing in this kitchen tonight could change the course of cooking history.
The aromas themselves are already intermingling in a way that makes me dizzy with excitement.
On three. One... two... three...
Go, Lorraine
 One... clean... pig.
 No lack of energy, our Newt.
First thing tomorrow move in those extra chalkboards he asked for. Give him whatever he needs; this is the first constructive thing Newt has ever done, we must do all we can to encourage him. (a sudden terrible thought occurs, which he makes light of) Let's hope he's not designing a bomb.
 Wally, Wally, Wally.
Gentlemen, all roads lead to Rome.
Three point one four one six.
What the heck is that?
 Has anyone seen the Professor?
Oh geez, he's gone into a duct.
 We'll need a blueprint of the whole system.
Morning all.
Morning all.
Simone and I just stopped in for a juice and seltzer and, of course it couldn't have been but we thought we saw the Professor in the cafeteria.
 The cafeteria! He's in the cafeteria!
Perhaps it was him.
Pie... pi. Gentleman, we're on the right track.
 It's almost as if he's toying with us.
 He must've been pretty hungry.
We could've gotten him something.
Clean... pig. Clean... pig.
Again!!
Stop the music!!
Eureka!!!
Eureka.
That's not Newt.
Remember he was struck by lightning, just like you were, Grandad.
Tidman!!
 Standing by, Master Newt.
 I'm going to require a few additional items.
Very good, Sir.
-- no, those are one inch alloyed plates... in the titanium, yes... fourteen gallons of liquid... liquid...  ...would that be nitrogen? Yes, liquid nitrogen. One thirty-thousand cubic foot porcelain-lined steel tank. Thirty eight pounds of uranium -- are we building a bomb? That's very amusing, sir -- (a high, rouge panic runs through him) -- oh you do have it? How convenient yes, then we'd also like the strontium 15... six barrels... yes, the large... no, I think that's everything -- oh, yes, one semi-conductor fero-electric solenoid capacitor kit --  -- and throw in a fifth of Gordon's... this afternoon? How marvelous. Bye
Herro, Gentremen, how may I herp you?
Missy, you can tell the President of this outfit that General Conrad and a few of the Joint Chiefs are here to see him and he better get out here, pronto.
Light away, Sirl.
How do you do. We heard you had some trouble up here with your new employees.
Mind if I ask him a few questions?
 What's your name, son?
Flank Loberlts.
 What'd he say?
He said his name was Frank Roberts.
Well, Frank, where you from?
Rubbock... wellr, neal Rubbock, 'bout twelve mires as the clow fries.
 And you're a citizen of these here United States of America?
Boln and bled.
What are you doing, pogo-wimp?
I like to pogo. Pogoing is cool.
You're stupid. Where'd you get this stupid thing?
My dad got it for me.
Your Dad's the biggest wimp who ever lived, everyone knows that.
That's a lie -- give it back.
Why don't you make me, pogo-wimp?
I'm warning you; I know hand-to-hand.
Oh yeah?
Yeah!
It looks like I'm going to have to make an example of you, Gordon.
He started it --
Don't start with your crying and whimpering, an ugly trait you inherited from your father. (dragging him towards the school) Maybe we can beat it out of you.
I told the truth. This is unfair.
Life... is unfair. 
I'm going to have to tell my Dad about this.
Good. You tell him to come see me. I can use this on even bigger babies. And I've got a hankie for when big babies cry. 
What do you mean tomorrow, Gordie? You tell her I'll be there in ten minutes... you bet I believe you, son, you did the right thing.
Is there a fruit stand nearby?
 Yes, Sir, one block, left face, forward march about four doors down.
I'll be back.
What is the meaning of this? You can't just barge in here like --
 That's enough.
Gordie, you can take your seat with the rest of the kids.
 There'll be no more beatings in this classroom.
My boy doesn't lie, sourpuss.
At this moment, I consider myself the luckiest man on earth. I have a wonderful son, who doesn't lie, and he's made me very proud.
 I think I'm gonna puke.
Victor, come up here.
You're not the boss a' me.
Calm down, son. (a hand on Victor's shoulder) Victor, I know what a hard life you've lived, what with your folks divorce and your father's alcoholism. It wasn't so long ago that I didn't know the meaning of a family either. Victor, I know about the loneliness, lying awake at night, feeling like no one in the world cares for you. I know what this can do to you; the rage and frustration. And I just want you to understand you've got a friend here and his name is Wally Newton. You're welcome at our house, Gordie's and mine and Polly's, anytime, day or night, for good food or hand-to-hand lessons and for just going out to the range with an Uzi or a thirty-ought-six. (Victor's dissolved in helpless tears) Now you characters shake hands and call it square.
 That's not Newt.
Bring up my uranium rods!
Make a note, Rayburn; triple this year's donation to Soothing Breezes Sanitarium.
The lad has improved, taken, many, so much more, steps, that I, hard to find the, but then, words are --
Thank you, Rayburn.
Am I wrong? I feel as though I've asked for the plutonium three or four times already --
Just coming off the truck, Master Newt.
My treat: jiffy baked Alaska for everyone!
We're very close now.
Alert the Corrigans; we're close
Ladies and gentlemen, the Eagle has landed.
Coming up now... coming up now...
 Kind'a looks like a pig.
 Good work, Posthole. But what in the Sam Hill is it?
Sir, unless I miss my guess there's enough arbitrary nucleic permutations on the cobalt theme inside that porker to turn this world into a corn flake.
This is worth a fortune but Lord it's dangerous. Thank God we got it before those animal crackers at Company "A". Start building immediately. Now it's more important than ever we pop the weasel and drain the tub of Professor Hugo Zinzermacher. (looking at the monitor again) Damned if that thing doesn't look like a pig.
No, no, no, nothing's "up"... the boys and I found a great little trout stream out here in Kansas... we're frying up some rainbows right now, couple a' beers, we'll be back inside the Beltway before you know it... yes I was in Bethesda -- no, nothing serious, slipped on a rock going for a carp in the Potomac -- no, I'm fine now, never better... thanks very much for calling, you have a nice day, too, Mr. President.
He was supposed to be out clearing brush today, Mofler, what the hell kind of intelligence are you giving me? We got the feed off that uplink back to Section Six?
 "Conclusions: the emission had caused unusual behavior and activity --"
I could'a told you that, Mofler.
 "-- which does not at this time appear to be life-threatening, but considering the nature of the deep space random collection samplings, an accurate projection of long-range consequences is not possible at this time."
Recommendations for response?
Three options, Sir...  "Option #1: do nothing, return to Washington, deny everything. Option #2: reduce Newtonville to a smoking pile of ash, litter the area with sheep with their eyes sewn shut and blame it on UFO's." 
I'm leaning towards two. What's number three?
Option #3 is a second emission.
So. It's time to fish or cut bait.  Alright, boys... we'll pee again.
Don't pour too quickly. This stuff will come back up at you and burn your hands off at the elbow...  Very nicely done. Now we can climb down and take some liquid refreshment.
Grandad, you mustn't touch that, no, no.
Move away, move away now -- Tidman, if Grandad were to touch that button, that would be very bad.
I'm so sorry he did that. That's very bad.
Surely you can turn whatever it is off, Master Newt.
 Oh no, the plutonium is lit now. Once you light the plutonium, pffft.
 Ah. So it is a bomb...
A real dandy.
And how big is your bomb, Master Newt?
Oh, very big.
I see. And you're absolutely certain there's nothing we can do, really?
I wish.
You wouldn't kid us about something like this, would you, Master Newt?
 Once you light that plutonium...
How much time have we got?
Just about enough for one more good cup of coffee.
 Cream and sugar, Master Newt?
Please, thank you.
I said pee immediately! -- I don't give a damn about procedures, let's hose this deck down quick!
That flight back to Zurich's leaving in less than an hour, Professor.
How long can it take to pack a sock?
 I don't seem to remember the Professor having a dog on the plane, do you Mel?
 Did you hear the one about the farmer/scientist?
Is it a long joke?
No, no, we have time. Anyway, this farmer/scientist. He was outstanding in his unified field.
I see.
 Best pie I ever ate... couldn't believe something that looked so simple could taste so good... the aroma, the flavor, I'm in seventh heaven... I'll never eat at home again...
When I pay for a killing, I expect somebody to die and Thursby, your number just came up.
Put those away before somebody gets hurt!
 Yes, Sir, Mr. Thursby.
Sit down and have some green pie, which we recommend with the house red for a particularly pleasing taste sensation.
Say, who do you think --
 There'll be no more killing in this town.
I agree completely.
Sit down, behave yourself and have some delicious green pie and red wine.
I'm looking forward to it.
I've got the contracts prepared. I've decided to make you all full partners. I'll have the fellas sign first, then you, okay Horton?
That's jake with me. Partner.
Horton, I always knew you were a strong man. I always knew you had courage. But this new tenderness... it's... it's...  I just love you ever so much.
There it is, less than a minute now. Fifty-nine, fifty-eight -- isn't it interesting how time passes so much more slowly at moments like this -- (a hint of wistful regret) No time to solve that one.
I still smell gas, Big Tom.
 T-minus fifteen... fourteen... 
Hitch up those phonebooks, boys, no telling what this sucker'll do to your procreative recreational system.
Check that tape for me, Mofler.
Let me clarify something; am I in Heaven? Are you an Angel?
See what I mean? These days you say the sweetest things. And who ever knew you were such a wonderful cook. I hope this doesn't frighten you, but I suddenly find myself filled with maternal longings.
Frighten me? It's the best news I've had since the discovery of sub-atmoic particles.
Professor, it's been an absolute delight --
 First of all, that was absolutely the worst cafeteria food I've ever tasted in my life.
You got a lotta nerve, you fruitcake --
 That's enough.
You two ought to spend a little more time thinking about tenderness. And cooking.
Perhaps we should try a little tenderness.
Delbert, have you ever seen a woman my age do something like this?
Definitely a little tenderness.
 I'm... so... happy.
So am I, darling.
Me, too, Dad. I feel so good about our family.
Can I pee?
Of course you can, Wally.
Perhaps it shall be a finer place we go to, leaving behind this veil of tears --  -- where our fortunes rise and fall on the seas of destiny like a tiny ship, where an action once set in motion cannot be reversed -- Mother, I'll be home soon, in fact... (squints at the countdown) ...in about another three seconds --
Hold your horses, tea bag, we're not going anywhere.
Martini, Master Newt?
Shaken not stirred.
Pee again.
 Pee again!
 Ridin' high in April... shot down in May.
Big Tom, I still smell --
I think it worked.
Just goes to prove an old saying of mine: two wrongs don't make a right. But three do.
 Grandfather, the stars and funny animals are gone. Grandfather, I have so many things to tell you.
I want to live here with you, with you and Tidman, Chef Pierre and the rest of the staff, forever and ever and --
Rock-'em-sock-'em.
That's Newt.
Hello, ducks.
Hello, love.
 Stop him!... Professor! We have an emergency!... Don't let him get in that car!... Bert and Mel, bring him back inside!
For goodness sake, he'll miss his plane.
There aren't going to be any planes if he doesn't get inside fast!
Professor, will you come with us please?
It's an inconvenience, but it does sound urgent.
 Here's yet another example; time was going by so slowly and suddenly the universe seems to curve back in on itself.
 He pushed the button... no, you pushed the button... it was an accident... I didn't mean to do it...
This could be a catastrophe of unprecedented proportion!
 No, no, you got it all wrong.
Let me explain something (pointing to the formula) "Pi" times "permutations interacting geometrically", and it goes without saying arbitrarily --
-- times the speed of light, which is very fast I can tell you, equals -- (points to the first "b) -- bomb.
-- however, let me direct your attention to this little "2", do you see? This means "Pig" squared and we can clearly discern, or Lucerne where my Grandmother's from, that this pig had two heads. Which brings us back to "bob" - b - o - b -- bomb or barbecue.
So unless I miss my guess we are looking at and smelling the best barbecue sauce in the whole darned world.
 Twenty years we at Heinz have been searching for a sauce like this.
Manna from heaven.
 We're on the phone to Heinz now' we'll deal, we'll deal -- don't eat all that sauce, don't let them eat all that sauce --
 Don't eat all that sauce!!
Time.
Yes, it is time. Professor --
If we hurry you can still catch your plane.
 Time.  Time.
Just one minute!
I say, hold on!
Professor, Company "AB" is prepared to offer you a seven figure contract --
Stock options, access to the corporate jet --
First rate health and dental coverage --
And your own key to the executive washroom.
For life.
 How do you do.  My name is Professor Hugo Zinzermacher. Hugo your way, und I'll go mine.
 It's beginning to look a lot like Christmas/ Everywhere I go... 
