I am Criswell!  For years I have told the almost unbelievable, related the unreal, and shown it to be more...than a fact. Now I tell a tale of the threshold, people, so astounding that some of you may faint.
This is a story of those in the twilight time...once human, now monsters, in a void between the living and the dead. Monsters to be pitied, monsters to be despised... CUT BACK TO CRISWELL:
A night with the Ghouls...the ghouls reborn, from the innnermost depths...of the world.
presents CRISWELL in
FAWN SILVER as Black Ghoul PAT BARRINGER as Shirley WILLIAM BATES as Bob
Gold Girl Dance...........PAT BARRINGER Hawaiian Dance.............MICKEY JINES Skeleton Dance...........BARBARA NORDIN Indian Dance...............BUNNY GLASER Slave Dance..............NADEJDA DOBREV Street Walker Dance......COLEEN O'BRIEN Cat Dance...................TEXAS STARR Fluff Dance................RENE DE BEAU Mexican Dance...........STEPHANIE JONES Zombie Dance...............DENE STARNES
Wolf Man...................JOHN ANDREWS Doctor...................EDWARD TONTINI Second Doctor............WILLIAM BONNER Giants....................ROD LINDEMANN Detective...................JOHN BEALEY Nurse....................ARLENE SPOONER
Art Director.............ROBERT LATHROP Sets..................ERNEST BOUVENKAMP Sound.......................DALE KNIGHT Assistant Cameraman......ROBERT MAXWELL Make-up.................MARGARET DAVIES Hairdresser..............NANCY SANDOVAL
Still Photographer............ROBERT WILSON Production Supervisor..........TAD STAFFORD Post Production Supervisor..DONALD A. DAVIS Color.........................EASTMAN COLOR Processing.....CONSOLIDATED FILM INDUSTRIES
EDWARD D. WOOD, JR. From his novel "Orgy of the Dead"
WILLIAM BATES L.S. JENSEN NEIL B. STEIN
We sure picked the wrong night to find a cemetery.  Let's turn back.
No.  It's on a night like this when the best ideas come to mind.
But does it have to be in a cemetery?
You wouldn't understand.  Seeing a cemetery on a night like this can stir in the mind the best ideas for a good horror story.
But there're so many wonderful things to write about, Bob.
Sure there are--and I've tried them all.  Plays, love stories, westerns, dog stories.  Huh, now there was a good one, that dog story all about--
 But horror stories!  Why all the time horror stories?
Shirley, I wrote for years without selling a single word.
My monsters have done well for me.  You think I'd give that up just so I could write about trees, or dogs, or daisies? Huhuh--Daisies!  That's it, I'll write about my creatures who are pushing up the daisies.
BOB Your puritan upbringing holds you back from my monsters, but it certainly doesn't hurt your art of kissing.
That's life.  My kisses are alive.
Who's to say my monsters aren't alive?
All of my books are based on fact, or legend.  Thats perhaps why they're more interesting and sell in the top spots.
Well, fact or not, I don't see how we're going to find an ancient cemetery in these mountains tonight.  I can't see a thing!  Let's turn back.
There's an old cemetery on this road. I've been there before.
I'm getting the jitters! Let's turn back!
 Okay.
Just as soon as I find a place wide enough to turn around.
Not so fast!
 Not so fast!
It is said on clear nights, beneath    the cold light of the moon, howl the dog and the wolf, and creeping things crawl out of the slime.  It is then the ghouls feast in all their radiance.
It is on nights like this most people prefer to steer clear of, uh, Burial Grounds. It is on nights like this, that the creatures are said to appear, and to walk!
The day is gone, the night is upon us, and the moon, which controls all of the underworld, once again shines...in radiant contentment.  Come forth, come forth, o Princess of Darkness.
Time seems to stand still.  Not so the ghouls, when a night of Pleasure is at hand!
If I am not pleased by tonight's entertainment, I shall banish their souls to everlasting damnation!
And who is to be first?
Ahh, the curiousity of youth... on the road to ruin!  May it ever be so adventurous!
I'm so frightened.
Well we certainly can't stay here. C'mon.
Where?
In there.
It frightens me.
Silly, there's nothing in there to be afraid of.
Then..then what's that music?
That's what I want to find out. We have to get help.
What help can we possibly find in the cemetery at this time of night?
Something's making that music.
I'm not sure I care to find out what it is.
All right.  Don't worry, I'll be right beside you.
What help will that do if something in there isn't dead?
Not dead?  In a cemetery?
I can't imagine anything dead playing that music.
Well, it's probably just the caretaker, and that's exactly who we want to find.  They'll have a telephone.  C'mon.
Could it be some kind of college initiation?
It's an initiation all right, but not of a college as you and I know them.  Nothing alive looks like that!
Can't we get out of here?
I'm not sure...
What do you mean?
I'm not sure, myself. It's just a feeling I've had since the crash...Like I feel a cold chill all over.. ..Now this!
I would see for approval, the one who in life worshipped gold above all else.
 Look!
Be careful!--They'll see you.
Throw gold at her.
More gold.
 More gold!
 More gold!
 For all eternity, she shall have gold.
And both couldn't help but remember a line from one of Bob's stories:  "A sudden wind howls.  The night things are all about me.  Every shadow, a beckoning invitation...to disaster.  I know I should think of other things, of pleasant things, but I can't. How can I think of other things, of pleasant things, when I am in a place surrounded by shadows and objects, which can take any shape, here in the darkness...Any shape my mind can conceive."
Bring 'em in!
They are live ones?
 Yes, Master.
Live ones where only the dead should be?
Yes, Master, and we caught them, him and me.
You shall both be rewarded.  My Dear Empress of the Night, put these intruders to the test.
 A situation easily remedied.
 Fiend!  Fiend!
 A pussycat is born to be whipped.
 It will please me very much to see the Slave Girl with her tortures!
 Torture! Torture!  It pleasures me!
I'm so frightened.
You've got a right to be. We're trapped by a bunch of fiends.
Those creatures..!
Don't let them hear you.
What can we do?
I don't know.  I just don't know. But don't give up. We're not finished yet.
Easy Shirley, Easy!  Panic won't do us any good!  Let me think. We've got to stall for time.
I'm afraid I'll faint.
Whatever you do, don't do that.
HOLD!
Let her continue to learn. The time is not yet right that they should join with us.
...And what is this?
What kind of symbol?
She came to us on the Day of the Dead.
Her dance has pleased me.
She was?
Oh, yes, a religion of sorts.
I don't like snakes.  I remember the one Cleopatra used.  Cute little rascal until it flicked out that red tongue, and those two sharp fangs.  You'd never think such a little thing packed such a big wallop.
Hurt her?  Hell, it killed her!
We had lots of snakes in my ancient Egypt...slimy, slinky things.
When I was alive, they were the things nightmares were made of.
She pleases me.  Permit her to live in the World of the Snakes. 
 Now, I will talk...to The Wolf Man...and The Mummy.
He wants us.
What do you suppose for?
Did you do something to get us into trouble again?
Did you howl off-key at the moon again?
I can't remember doing anything wrong either.
We better go before we make him mad.
 We are your servants, Master.
Of course you are.
Have we in some way made you angry, Master?
You know better than that.
We don't know of anything, Master...
Then why do you shake so?
It's not often an Emperor like you calls on creatures like us.
Well rest easy, I'm not angry with either of you.
 Aaaahhhh.
Then it is some service you desire of us.
You are the keepers of the Damned.  You two know them all. And I am tired of this usual type of entertainment. I want...a decided change.
Yes, yes yes I know all that.
I suppose most of the others will have to wait for their judgement until after the next full moon.
Ahh, but I declare there is still time for something.
There are one or two which should complement the night's entertainment, Master
Ahh, good.  Then I will see them.  Dismiss the rest.
Yes, sir, Master.
The ropes are coming loose.
Be careful!
I am--It's our only chance.
Nothing is worth your life.
My guess is if we don't take the chance pretty soon, we're not going to have much life left anyway.
I'm frightened.  I'm so frightened.
Hold on just a little longer, Shirley.
Be careful, oh please be careful.  We'll never get out of here alive, I know it.  I just feel it.
You do?
Yes I feel it in my bones.
You're talking nonsense.
Oh, no I'm not.  These heathens probably have an open grave for us.
They wouldn't dare put us in the same grave-- or would they?
I should hope not.  I hate you!
That sudden?
Yes, that sudden.  If it weren't for you we wouldn't be hunting for an old cemetery on a night like this.  It's all your fault.
 ...And I thought you loved me.
Not yet.  I perhaps have other plans for such a pretty one. No matter, I will tell you when and if you may have her.
 Have you not enjoyed the evening's festivities?
Ahh, that will soon change when you become one of us!
It would seem that The Wolf Man would have you for his own!
AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA.
I have promised both The Wolf Man and The Mummy a reward.  It could be that you are that reward.
AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA.
You need not worry...Not just now, anyway.
Leave her alone, you fiend!
Fiend is it!  You will not be so fortunate.  Your existence will cease within moments.  No one wishes to see a man dance...  And you, my dear, will entertain for centuries to come.
If I could get my hands on you...
..Oh, You could do nothing!  I can save you much pain.
Leave her alone, I tell you!
 I do not joke in my proposal.
The Princess of Darkness would have you for her own to join us through extreme pain.  Yet I am inclined for one as lovely as you, to be more lenient. I have but to touch you with my finger, and it would mean the end of you, all over, quickly and painlessly...
No. No! No!
I repulse you?  Very well.  It seems you have chosen your own fate. Live with it!  I should say die with it!
I've got the ropes loose now. I've got my hands free.  Be careful--Don't change your expression too much.  They must not catch on.
What can we do against them?
I don't know, yet.  We'll just have to watch our chance. When it comes I'll know what to do--I hope I'll know what to do.
I still don't know what ever made me go steady with a crackpot writer like you.
All right.  Put it on heavy.
My old boyfriend Tommy would never have gotten me in a mess like this.  At least he's got brains.
Him!  I'll bet he sleeps with all the lights on.
Maybe so.
I could make her another Cleopatra...
Without the snake, of course.
Ahh, she will be yours.
At your discretion...But first, I desire more entertainment.
Ahh, there is yet time.
 I know the laws of the night. I state there is still time for yet another.
 Your own pleasure comes only after mine, when I desire it. I am the Sole Ruler of the Dark World.  There is no one to challenge my authority here. My word is the law--all powerful. No one is to challenge that authority, no one!.  Is that understood?  It is my command.
Then see that it does not happen again, in the penalty of Everlasting Despair.  Now are there others?
Well then let us proceed.
Easy, Shirley.  Easy!
I will decide the conclusion.
 Then cancel my order.
There is yet time.  Don't you want your own pleasure?
Hahh, there is always time... All in good time...there is always time.  You shall have your pleasure.  THAT... I decree
The time...is short.
Your pleasures of course!
You may take her now.
You better hope there is.
Now hurry, hurry.  I will watch!  Your desires may be my pleasure also...Our fitting climax to an evening's enter- tainment.  You must...hurry now.
Easy, Miss, everything's gonna be alright.
Bob?  Bob?
He's right here beside you. He'll be alright too.
Where are they, where did they go? They tried to kill me.
What's this you say?  Who was going to kill you?
The ghouls--they all turned into skeletons.
Take it easy, Miss.
What she needs is a good rest.
It's true, I tell you, it's true!  They all turned into skeletons.  She-she cut me here.
Probably was bruised in the crash.
You know, you two were very lucky.
I love you Bob. I really do. Forgive me?
There's nothing to forgive. It was all a dream.
You love me then?
Of course I do.
As it is with all the Night People, they are destroyed by the first rays of the sun. But upon the first appearance of the deep shadows of the night, and when the moon is full, they will return, to rejoice...in their evil lust, and take back with them any mortal who might happen along. CUT TO:
Yes, they were lucky, those two young people...May you be so lucky...But do not trust to luck, at the full of the moon, when the night is dark...Make a wide path around the unholy grounds...of the Night People. Who can say that we do not exist-Can you?
