Okayp, just relax.now. This'll be over Caitti before you know it. Kate looks up. Her smile falters-as we REVEAL:
Wait, I've changed my mind. I don't want to do this anymore. The Doctor gives the Nurse an exasperated look. The Nurse takes Rate's hand, eases her back onto the table.
Your baby is dead. There's nothing. else we can do. Kate reels, her world turned upside-dowp. Emotional free-fall.
No, this isn't what's supposed to happen. My baby's alive!
We're so sorry. A terrible loss, we're so sorry...
But it's still alive! It's moving! Feel it, you can feel it! Kate tries to put the Nurse's hand on her.belly but the-Nurse- pulls away and hands the Doctor a pair of gleaming.blunt-tipped SURGICAL SCISSORS. The Doctor leans between Rate's spread legs, disappearing behind the curtain. Rate gasps.
No, stop! I want to be asleep!
TOO late for anesthesia.'' The baby's coming. You're.going to experience some pressure now... - Kate winces and bites her lip as the Doctor goes about his unseen work. A GOOD-LOOKING MAN in surgical scrubs stands behind him.. Bizarrely, he's videotaping-the whole thing. He's Kate's husband, JOHN . He smiles at her from behind -the camera.
It's okay, honeys You're doing great! The Doctor hands the scissors, now slick with gore, to the Nurse. H e takes a SUCTION. CATHETER and disappears behind-the curtain again. The Nurse - presses a button on a vacuum pump and the machine begins to HUM. Kate tightly closes her eyes.
This isn't happening. Wake up, wake up, wake up... Suddenly -- the thin wail of a BABY CRYING. Rate's eyes go wide w ith horror as the smiling Nurse approaches with a wriggling bundle wrapped in a blanket. Blood seeps through the pink fabric. W e can't see what's inside, but it's moving. And it's CRYING.
Congratulations, Mrs. Coleman. It's a girl . The Nurse offers her the bloody, blanketed bundle. Kate screams -
A lot of women experience difficulties around the anniversary of the miscarriage or the baby's expected due date. It's perfectly normal.
I was thinking of" going back to work. I really thought 1 was doing better.
You are. Think about where you were just four months ago. -  Are you still sober? Kate hesitates. Dr. Browning gives her a penetrating look.
I drove by the wine shop,on my.way.bome the other day.
Did you stop?
I really wanted to. The thought went through m' head, you know. it wasn't for me, it just might be nice to have a bottle handy in case we had guests.
But you didn't go in?
No.
That's all that matters. Let's try to stay focused on the. positive. Grief is different for everyone. You have to take it at your own pace.. Keep writing in your journal. You're doing fine. Rate smiles weakly. unconvinced.
Wow, did you make this?
Max gives an abashed look. Kate sighs. She knows she was too harsh with her.
-No, I'm sorry.. But just... take a break for a little while, okay? Max nods. Kate goes. back inside. A CAR pulls into the-drive.. It's John and eleven--year-old-DANIEL, Rate and John's other child. Daniel's blonde, brash, and-cocky, the all-American kid. He's wearing.a Little League uniform. Daniel runs toward Max. He steals her ball and dribbles-it around her in circles. -Max watches glumly. He offers her the ball, but when she reaches for it, he snatches it away and shoots a lay--up..-
Boo -yahl He shoots! He scores!
Nice one, champ! - Daniel pumps his arm and runs inside. John walks up the drive, carrying a bouquet of FLOWERS. He hands Max the ball and lifts her up to the basket. Max happily puts the ball-through'the hoop.
All right! Ginme five! She smiles and gives him a high-five as he carries her inside.
Drapes look'nice.
Curtains.  They're curtains, not drapes. And haw exciting is my life that -I now know the difference.
.That's this for?
Just love you. He kisses her as she takes them. Some of her gloomy mood melts.
Ore story. Then bedtime. Okay? Max nods. happily and picks up a book from her nightstand. Kate groans inwardly when she sees what it is. It'.s called. "We were Going To Have A Baby, .But We Had An Angel Instead."
You want to hear about the baby again? Max nods. Kate hesitates, then gives Max a sad smile.
"People send us flowers and cards, but we still miss our baby. If this just happened to you, I'm sorry you got an angel instead of a'baby. I.think a baby would have been more fun." The last picture is a FAMILY WITH A BABY ANGEL watching over them.
Yes, she is. She's with us every day. Kate gives Max a gentle kiss on the forehead.
I'm sorry. I can't. Shit... She moves away, tears suddenly in.her eyes. He gives a concerned look, lets her have her space. A beat.
I'm so sick of feeling like this. Christ, the kids must thing I'm crazy.
Will you stop worrying about what everybody else thinks?
How can I? I saw a pregnant woman today on the way home and I almost lost it. Just burst into tears with Max sitting right there. Daniel barely talks to me. You and I haven't had sex in over a year now. What if I.never get better? I don't want to lose you.
You're never going to lose us. I promise you. I just wish...  Have you thought any more about adopting?
I can't even be a mother to the children we already have.
That's not true. The kids understand. They just know you're not happy.
But I should be.
Do you want another child?
You Snow I do. More than anything.
Even if it can-'t be'biologically ours.
Then what are we talking about this -for? Let's do it.
You-don't just adopt a child because you're lonely and depressed.
That's not why we'd be doing..it. We wanted a child a year ago and we still want one, now..
We can't replace our baby.
No, 'we can't. But we can take the' place we made for her in our hearts and our home and give it to a child who needs a family.
Are you both employed?
I'm-an architect at a firm in the city. The Lawyer turns to Kate. Kate hesitates.
I used to teach music at Yale. I haven't worked for about a year.
 You're sure you want an older child? - -
With your background, you could have a newborn in as little as a year.
We've'alread y waited a.long time. :We'd lake a child as:quickly as possible.
Well, 'getting an older child-As definitely quicker, not to mention cheaper, but- there's a reason for that. A lbt of these kids- have serious behavioral problems.'
We've already signed up for special- needs-'adoption classes. Trust me, we're ready for anything.
You must have a lot of love to give. Are you looking for a boy or a girl?
You're not worried about being prepared?
There's not gonna be a pop quiz. Kate smiles. She closes the folder and looks at a Polaroid of a happy, seven-year-old Puerto Rican girl stapled to the cover. The name next to the photo is YOLANDA.
Yolanda, look who's here to see you. Yolanda, smiles at Kate and John.. She runs over to greet them, but stands just out of their reach. -Kate kneels in front of her.
Don't you look pretty!
6ister Abigail put ribbons in my hair. See?
Wow, that was nice of her. Look, we brought you something for the trip tomorrow. She hands her a bag of activity books and a "Travel Turtle," a kid- sized lap desk for coloring in the car_ Yolanda's face lights up.
What do you.say?
Thank you. Kate reaches out to her, but Yolanda pulls-away, focusing all her attention on her presents. Rate gives her a sad 'smile.
Nervous?
Yeah. And happy. And excited. : And proud. And scared shitless. It' s funny. All the same feelings I had when I was pregnant with our others.
That's what really worries you, isn't it? Something bad happened, the last time you felt this way. 
Hi there.
Hello. - She speaks with a strange accent. Sounds Eastern European.
Are these , paintings all yours?
Yes. Do you like them?
Very much. They're remarkable. -
h T ank :you. My name is Esther. What's yours?
John. It's nice to meet you. She smiles and demurely offers her hand, giggling as he takes it. She blushes, then turns back to her painting. It's a half- finished jungle scene with a SMILING LION crouched beneath a tree.
So what's this one going to bo?
My paintings are stories that come from my imagination. -This one'-s about a'sad mother lion who can't find her cube.
She's smiling.
She's dreaming about her babies. It's the only thing that makes her happy.
Well, I hope she finds them.
She will. I,bok. As she speaks, Esther dabs her brush and paints little lion cubs curled up in front of their sleeping mother:
They were lost'in the jungle 'and they were so scared because they didn't'have a mother or father. But just when they thought they'd be alone forever, they found their mother sleeping under this tree. And they felt so safe that they fell asleep too. Now when-the mother lion wakes up, her dream will have come true. She has her family again.
Where did you learn how to do this?
Y've just had lots of time to practice, I guess. It's so boring here.
You don't play outside with the other girls? Sounds like they're having fun.
I like staying inside. That way I don't get my clothes dirty.
- Well, that's very responsible of you, but I'll- bet the sisters could find something else for you. to wear.
You.don't like my dress? - Don't you think it's pretty? -
Your dress is. very pretty. I'm ,just saying. you could -probably go outside if you really wanted to.
 I don't like laying with the other .girls. I'm different from everyone.
There's nothing wrong with different.
Yes, there is. Everybody says there's not, but it isn't true. I don't care. If I'm sad or lonely, I just come in here a nd paint a story with a happy endingg And when people say they like. my paintings, it makes me feel better.  I think.peo le should always try to take the bad things that happen to them and turn them into something good. Don't you? John is taken aback. Who j t1m1s )dc? Before he can respond:
There you are. Rate and Sister Abigail stand in the doorway. John waves for Kate to enter and Esther sits up eagerly when she does. Abigail's expression darkens when she sees who John has been talking to.
Hey, I'd like you to meet someone. - . Esther, this is my wife, Kate. Kate smiles and offers her hand, but instead of shaking it, Esther lovingly presses it to her cheek.
Motta... Kate'and John exchange a beumsed look'.
She painted these all by herself.
Wow, you're quite the little-artist.
Thank you. You smell nice. Kate laughs. Sister Abigail shifts uncomfortably.
Would you like me to paint you a picture? You can watch me if-you want. I'm normally a little shy, but --
Esther, I'm sorry, they don't have time for you to paint them a picture.  They have to come with me now. Yolanda's going home with them tomorrow. isn't that wonderful? Esther wilts. She releases Rate's hand and musters a weak smile.
Yes. I'm sure she'll be very happy.
It was nice meeting you.
The pleasure was mine.
 You've got a real talent on your hands here.
Yes, we're very lucky to have her. But there's something -strange-in Abigail's voice -- she definitely doesn't un -lucky. Esther watches them go.
The notary will be here at.ten for-you- to sign the placement agreement.
Thank you so much for all your help. Kate gives her a warm hug. But mid-embrace, she notices something: Esther is at the end of the hallway, peering at them from around a corner. Abigail and John see--her,' too.
What did she say to me.back there? It sounded like... "motta?"
It's Russian. It means "mother." John whistles "Whatever Will Be, Will Be" to himself as he drives. Kate gives him an amused look, then Jokingly sings along:
When you were juuust a liuittle
Sorry, I've got that stuck in my head now.
She. made quite an impression on.you.
I wish you co'uld've heard the things. she was saying before you c&me in. I Jatow adults who aren't that mature.
She probably wasn't there when we were first ,looking.
It just blows may mind, a kid could go through as much-as she must have and still turn out like that.
You sound like you're sorry we're not adopting her instead of Yolanda.
No, of course not. I just hope she. gets the right break.  I wouldn't trade our littl'e' girl for the world. You )maw that. Rate gives him an adoring look and squeezes his hand.
Where's Yolanda?
Have any of you seen-Yolanda? Nobody has.
Yolanda? Are you hiding-down here? Then she notices a closet behind her. The door. is ajar. She reaches out, opens it... and nearly gags at what she sees inside.
Bello?
.The birth family is claiming her body. They're planning a private service. He looks to Kate for a reaction, but she has none. He continues:
Sister Abigail thinks she might have been playing something called "The Choking Game." It's a kind of schoolyard dare. You try to get a rush by having someone choke you until you almost pass out. There have been cases where kids have tried it alone and accidentally hanged themselves. A beat. Kate's voice is distant, as;
So that's it? She just vanishes from our lives?
We can have our awn-service. I think .it's important that we -
I've been' in grief counseling for almost a year-and-a-half.. If you say the word "closure,." I'm going to-claw your eyes out. She's not angry, just matter-of-fact. Be wants to say something, but holds his tongue. Silence hangs heavy between them.
Maybe we're not supposed.to do this.
No. Don't say that. -
we -try to .have a baby and I have a 'third-trimester miscarriage that leaves. me sterile. 'We try to adopt and she dies the night before we bring her home. That doesn't sound like' somebody's trying to tell us. something?
Yolanda didn' t the to.teach us a lesson.. We didn't make this-happen.
It doesn't make.anndifference. I can't go through this again.
so let's not. Let's adopt.Bather. This brings Kate back to reality. She eyes him coolly.
Her body's barely cold and you're already thinking about replacing her?
We can't replace Yolanda any more than We can replace Jessie. But we can't help her anymore, either. Esther is alive and needs a family. Right now.
We have to at least wait until.--
-Until what? I don't want to waste .a nother year of our lives wishing for something that we.can't-have. . I want us to feel like a family again. Kate regards him for a beat, conflicted. Then:
Let's see what Sister Abigail thinks.
For the most -part, she's an'ideal child. She's originally from Russia, but her English is flawless, Smart as a.tvhip and very mature for her age. I don't think I've-ever had to tell her .anything-twice and I've never had to clean-up after her.. She's a bit of a- nQat-freak.
I think we can handle that.
She's also fiercely independent., Whatever the other-children want to do, she wants to.dc the opposite.
She told me they make fun of her.
I'm sure they do, but she doesn't make- things any easier on herself. She just doesn't seem interested in friends.. She doesn't even play like a normal child. She just reads and paints. Most of the time she barely-speaks.
Why do'you think that is?
By who?
I don't know. There's nothing in her -history, but that doesn't necessarily mean anything. Russian adoption - records. are notoriously unreliable.
Then what are you basing this on? Sister Abigail hesitates. Deciding how much to say.
I wish I knew. There's just something missing with her. A-spark you see in a child's eyes that isn't there. I've only seen that-before in cases where the child had been severely traumatized. It might also explain - some of her idiosyncratic behaviors.
Like what?
She refuses to shower or change clothes with the other girls.' She won't even allow the housemother in-the bathroom with her. She.'.s also very concerned with her physical appearance for her age. She's like a teenager getting ready for a date every morning. She insists on wearing dresses-every day. The ribbons around her wrists and neck stay on day and night. . The only trouble we ever had with her was when we tried to take them off. She kicked two of Sister Francis' teeth-out. Kate and Tohn are taken. aback. Abigail sighs.
I'm sorry. I'm 'not trying to discourage you. If you're serious, I'll do everything I can to-expedite the process, given the circumstances.
She really did open up with us, didn't she?
She latched. right onto you. We're probably the best chance she has at a. normal life. Esther looks up from her work and waves at them. They wave back.
A normal life..' That sounds really good,',doesn't it? - She smiles. and takes John- .'s hand.
If you ever need anything, please don't hesitate to call. Before Kate. can respond, Esther tugs on her arm.
Come on! Let's-go) Kate laughingly lets Esther drag her away.
 We wills Sister Abigail happily watches them go.. Rate and Esther smile and wave goodbye.' She'waves back... but once the car pulls out, her smile fades. She seems'vaguely troubled as they drive away...
Put your thumb here. She makes the sign for 'T." Esther. sees her mistake, corrects it.
T-H-E-R.' E-S-T-H-E-R. Esther.
Perfect l
It's so beautiful, motta.
Sweetie, here we say "Mont" or. "mommy."
Kate and John exchange-a warm look.
Oh, we missed you so muchll Kate gives Max a kiss, then turns to Esther: Max hangs back, a little shy. Esther signs' to Max without speaking: -
She's been practicing the whole way.
What's that?
That's a hearing aid. It helps her hear.a little so she can read lips. John gives Doris a Use on the cheek.
Hi, Mont. Thanks for watching them.  Esther, this is Grandma Doris.
A pleasure to meet you. Esther surprises everyone by giving her a perfect ltttle rtse Daniel fails to suppress a laugh. Kate silences him with a look.
How precious! It's a pleasure-to meet you, too.
 And this is our son, Daniel. Esther smiles and puts out her hand. Daniel grudgingly takes it.
Hello, Daniel.
Hey.
Everything's so bigi As Esther moves on to the next room, Daniel hangs back and whispers to John, too loud:
Why is she dressed like that?
Don't be rude.
Would you like to see-your room? Esther smiles and nods eagerly. But on the way up the stairs, she eyes Daniel furtively, sizing him up...
It's perfect.
I love.you, motta -- I mean, Monmiy.
I love you, too, sweetie. She kisses Esther on the forehead. John leans in for a kiss and Esther,hugs -him tight. Then he and Kate turn out the light and close the door. Esther watches them go...-
Good luck II I love you II
Love you, tools John follows Daniel, kissing Kate on his way out.'
Remember, it's only a game.
I'm a fan. Fans yell. _.I'll call to let you know who won.
Okay, which one do you like?
These are for a'younger child. Did you pick them out for Yolanda? Kate is taken aback. She stammers for a beat.
I'm sorry. I'll take them back and pick some just for you.
It's all right. I rather like this one. Esther points out her.favorite and goes back to pinning up her paintings. Kate sighs. As she rolls up the samples, she notices the same Gothic mansion in several of Esther's older paintings.
'1s that a real place?
No. I just made it up. It's a haunted castle where a beautiful- princess was locked away. She waited so long and was so sad that she filled the moat with her tears, but then a handsome prince swam ,across it and rescued her.
These are cute.
-Jeans are ugly.
But sweetie, you have to have something you can play outside in.
That doesn't mean I have to look like a boy.
You like fish?
I like all beautiful things. Kate taps Max's shoulder and signs to her.
You should show her Hodgepodge when we get home. Max nods eagerly. Esther givee.them a curious look.
Hodgepodge? What's that?
Max. takes care of him all bir herself. It's her big girl responsibility.
Aaaww,-can I pet him?
Sure. But you have to promise not to- let him out of his. cage .unless- Hcumey or Daddy is,here to hold him.
Why? -
Because he's very delicate and you could hurt him. Okay? Esther xiods. Kate scoops.flodgepodge up and kneels between the girls. Esther and Max share a  smile as they stroke his-fur.
They grow up fast, don't they?
Too fast.
So what are your plans now?
Well, we'll get Esther settled, then I'll probably go back, to work.
Oh, so you think.they'll take you back? Kate's eyes flicker with irritation.
I'm not talking about Yale. I'm going to teach piano lessons from home.
I see. That was such a good position you had at Yale. It's a. shame.
I didn't quit because I wanted to. I quit because.I couldn't work anymore.
I know. I'm 5o glad you're doing better now.
She's fine. Kate's pointedly not making eye contact with Doris now.
Well, it's a shame that it took something like that for you to :get help, but I'm glad you did. Kate takes. the plate of food and leaves without looking at her.
This is perfect! Thank you! Eiow do I say "thank you?" Kate shows her. Esther turns and makes the sign to Max.
Behind them, Daniel climbs out of the pool and runs out to the end of the diving board, poised to jump back in.-
Dad! Watch this! But John is focused on Esther.- She's opening a big present la1aled "FROMi DADDY." Daniel can't get his attention.
Dad! 'Dad!! Dad, look!! John distractedly glances over his shoulder at him and Daniel does a huge cannonball into the pool. SPLASH! Suddenly, Esther squeals with glee. She's unwrapped an IIRT EASEL and NEW PAINTING SUPPLIES. By the time Daniel-'s smiling face pops out of the water, he's disappointed to find that Esther has drawn John's attention again, barraging him with-hugs and kisses. She looks at Daniel over John's shoulder and hticks her tongue out at him. Daniel fumes.
Are you ready? Esther nods excitedly. John uncovers her eyes. Esther stops short in awe. It's the FISH TAN C from the shopping, mall. Esther kneels before it, entranced. She turns the black light on and off, marveling at- how it makes her dzess glow and the colors in her paintings light- -up. She gives Kate and John a. big smile.
nave-you seen my pearls?
Esther follows along in her own Bible and Kate notices aphoto poking from between its pages. All she can see is the face of a RUGGED-LOOKING MAN in his 40's. She eyes it curiously...
Did you take this out of my jewelry box? Max shakes her head, confused.
Then-how did it get in your room?
Somebody put this around T.J.'s neck. Who was it if it wasn't.you? Max shrugs. She looks-nervous. Kate sighs.
Go take a time-out and think about it.
But we're playing]
She can finish your game later.  Come on. Max pouts and follows Kate upstairs. Esther watches them go.
This is our new student. Her name is Esther Coleman and I want you all to make her feel very welcome today. One of the kids, BRENDA, whispers. a wisecrack to a FRIEND. Esther shifts uncomfortably.
Dear Jesus, please help me to not dress like such a freak tomorrow. The girls laugh. Esther pays no attention.
Cindy Crawford? This- magazine's older than we axe1 She's probably got Like wrinkly-old grandma boobs Howl They laugh. Daniel sparks up a joint. Suddenly:
Do you want to play? The boys quickly waving the wke away. Esther and Max are lo king up lat them
Get out of here! This is my treehouse. Dad built it for mM. Esther smiles, then leads Max away. The boys watch them go.
Is your, like, whole family ietarded or something?. - Trevor and Austin laugh. Daniel flushes, angry and embarrassed.
I think we should try this with the door unlocked tonight. What do you say?
Nobody's'going to come in. I'll stand right outside the door.
I could sing for you. At the home, I used to sing so the sisters would know I was all right. Please? Esther's eyes are desperate, pleading.. Kate sighs.
Come in. The door opens. It's Esther and Max.
We're scared of the lightning. Max giggles. Kate and John exchange a resigned look.'
Okay, come on. But just for tonight. Esther and Max excitedly clamber into the bed and snuggle between them. Kate and John share amused looks.-
Mom, what's she saying?
She wants you to pass the milk. Kate gives Daniel an admonishing look.
See? If you studied more, you wouldn't have to ask all-the time. Daniel glares fit Esther, but she doesn't see it. John enters, ready for work. He-grabs his travel mug, gives Kate a kiss.
See you later.
I want you to take us to school. She looks up at him with big sad eye.a. He can't resist.
I guess I can be late today.  I can take them to school and you can pick them up.
Yay! We're going with Daddy! - She jumps up from the breakfast table and runs off to get ready..
Bye, Mom. Kate-gives him and Max a kiss, but Esther-runs right by without pausing, hurrying after John. Esther. takes- 'John 'a-hand, holding it on the way to the car. Kate watches them, a little hurt...
I have a journal just like this that I write in every day.
What kinds of things do you write about?
what I did that day, how I feel. Anything I don't want to forget. I thought you and I could spend some time together today and start a life book.
Whit's that?
It's like an adoption storybook. And it's all about you. I did a couple pages to gat you started. Look. -
A DADDY GET rMARRIeED ng Esthermarvelskat Kate'sgwedding dress.
So beautiful,..   , Kate turns the page to a picture of.Khte and John with Daniel as a BABY. Then Kate, John, and SIX=YEAR-OLD DANIEL with BABY MAX.
This is Daniel when he was born, And there's Max; And there's you. She turns next to a photo of the-whole- family taken at Esther' s welcome home party. The caption reads, "ESTHER JOINS THE FAMILY."
If you want, we can put your other pictures in here, too.
What other pictures?
The ones I saw in. your Bible. Esther gives her a dismayed look.
I'm sorry. They slipped out at church. If they're private, we don't have.to ---
It's okay.' I want you to -see them. She smiles, but it looks forced.
These are the Wallaces. That's James and Hannah. And that's Micah, Luke, and Isaiah.
This is the American family that adopted you from Russia?
They lookvery'n.ice. They must have loved you'very much. Ksther nods, but Kate-sees that she's holding back tears.
What's wrong?.
I hid these because Ididn't want you to know how much I miss' them, I was afraid you'd think I didn't love you.
It's okay, sweetie... I understand.  You know, I lost someone who was very .special to me once, too. Esther wipes her eyes and looks up, interest piqued.
Really?
We don't have any pictures of Jessica because she died while she was still in my tunny. But we spread her ashes in here and as long as. this flower grows, part of her will be alive inside it.
Is this a Bibl?
Give it back to me. She reaches for it, but Brenda laughs and raises-it over her head.
Jesus-freak brought a Bible to school! Esther angrily swipes at it again, but one of Brenda's friends grabs it first. Esther takes a deep breath, trying to calm down.
May I pleas. have my Bible? The girl hesitates, shrugs and offers Sather the Bible... but snatches it away again at the last second. Brenda laughs. 8sther reaches for it, but the girls keep passing it between them. Esther and Brenda grab it at the same time. There's a brief tug- of-war, then the rubber band SNAPS and the Bible flies apart, pages and hp otos scattering everywhere. Esther gasps in horror and dives to the floor, desperately scooping up the loose pages. A"crowd gathers, watching and snickering, Daniel and Trevor among them. Esther looks to Daniel for help, but he just stands there, watching uncomfortably. Brenda laughs at Esther crawling around on all fours.
Look at the cute little doggied Is this your collar, little doggie? Brenda reaches out and grabs the ribbon-around Rsthdrls neck... The-second Brenda touches the ribbon, Esther flies into panic. She screams an s Brenda'e hand away, aching h_ex e and k coking feet, ster 11 s 5 riekincr At the toy Dg her.lungs. Brenda leaps back, wide-eyed and freaked out. The kids fall into stunned silence. Esther's screams echo in the hallway. A TEACHER comes running. Trevor puts a hand over his mouth so the teacher won't see him laughing.
Dude, your sister's a.total spazl
She's not my sister.
Mrs. Grosse told me what happened today. Do you want to talk. about it? Daniel-hangs back to see if Esther is going, to tell on him. She "sees him standing there, then turns to Rate with a smile. -
There's nothing to talk about. We were -just playing a game, that's all. She walks away, passing Daniel without, a look. Kate is. dubious.
What's the matter? Max turns and tries to block the cage, but Esther sees that it's empty. Esther gasps.
Where is he? Were you playing with him? Max frantically shakes her head. Esther quickly shuts the door.
You left his cage open! Look! Sure enough, the door of the cage is wide open. Max shakes her head, frightened tears in her eyes.
Then how did he get out?
You have to think! Mommy's not going to believe your. She didn't.believe you about the necklace and she's not going to believe you about this! Max is devastated. She's sobbing now. Esther tries to calm her.
It' a okay. Don't cry. Look 'at me. She takes Max by the shoulders. Max looks up, breath hitching.
I'll tell Monmy-it was-my fault. You won't get in any trouble.. I'll tell her I took him out of the cage without your permission and he ran away, okay? Max gives a grateful nod. Esther smiles and strokes Max's hair.
Don't worry. It'll be our little secret. :Max nods again and gives her a-hug. She doesn't see the calculating look in Esther's eyes...
Oh, my God! They hurriedly pull the sheets up and Kate turns on the bedside lamp. Esther stares at them blankly.
Esther, honey? What is it? Are you okay? Esther just glowers at'her, then turns and walks away.
Do we?
Yes. There are certain things that. grown-ups do. that kids aren't supposed to see. And that was one of them. Esther keeps painting. She still hasn't looked at her. -
Esther, I need you to listen to me.. Esther pauses. She deliberately sets her paintbrush down and turns to Kate. An awkward beat.
See, when two grown-ups love each other very, very much, they like to. show that love to each other -- Iknow.- They fuck. Kate is dumbfounded. Esther regards her with a bored, aloof-look.
- She could nave picked it up anywhere. Bell, she probably heard it at school.
This wasn't something she overheard. She knew what it meant. And the way she said'it. I don't even think she expected to get in trouble over it.
We'll talk to her about it tonight.
You think that's enough?
What do you suggest?
I could take her to Doctor Browning.
It was one dirty word. I don't think we need to call in the shrink just-yet.
Maybe. It just reminded The of what Sister Abigail said.. We really don't know that much about her.'- The last 'family she-was with could have been - like, "Pass the fucking potatoes" at the dinner table for all we know. '
Iget it, I just- don ''t want to make a bigger deal out of it than it is.
If she's saying "fuck" to my face, what's she doing when we're not around? We have to be thinking about what kind of influence she's having-on Daniel and Max. Particularly Max.
I wouldn't worry about it. You're right, we don't know how she was raised, but we do know she's a good kid. if Danny and Max want to start acting.like her, that's fine with me.
Let's pick flowers for Daddy. Max.nods happily. 'Then Esther notices something that makes her stop short. A girl approaching on a bicycle... It's Brenda. She pretends to not see Bather, just rides right by. Esther watches, her face strangely slack... then starts to follow .her. Max gives Esther a confused look, but tags along.
What are you looking at? No response. Max tug on Esther's arm, but she's rooted in place, staring blankly at Brenda. Finally, Brenda can't take it. She climbs off the jungle gym and walks away. Esther watches 'her go.. Brenda gets on a swing, but just as she starts to get some height, Ester' right there,.star n ,_p a her again. Max happily grabs a swing for herself, but Esther is fixated on Brenda.
Stop staring at.mel Stop ital. But Esther is unwavering. Can't take her eyes off of her. Brenda gets off the swing and runs away. Esther calmly walks after her.
Go-away! Stop following me, freak! Max sees Esther following Brenda and grudgingly gets off the swing, hurrying to -catch up. Brenda gives them an angry look.
Why don't you two,go home and change each other's diapers? Esther and Max follow Brenda across the park,, Max still uncertain about what's going on.. Brenda heads for. the tall corkscrew slide. Steep stairs lead to the enclosed top, the tip of the rocket ship. Brenda starts up the stairs, then pauses. She turns to Esther.
You go first. Esther doesn't move, but Max gladly takes her turn. After a beat, Esther follows Max up the stairs. Brenda stays behind, watching. Max goes down the spiraling slide, but Esther just stands at the top, looking down at Brenda.
Gol! Esther, continues to stare down at her for a beat, then turns and -disappears from eight. only. then does Brenda climb up. Max runs to the stairs for- another turn. Brenda reaches the top and looks around. She sees Max.' But where's Esther? She turns.
Are you going to tell on me? Max shrugs.
I didn't mean to hurt her. I just wanted her-to stop picking on me.  Don't you hate it when someone is mean to you for no reason? Wouldn't you do almost anything to make them stop? A best. Max nods. Esther offers her hand and Max takes it.
Brenda says you pushed her.
That's not true! We were just playing and she tripped! I swear!
 Did you see what happened? Esther eyes Max expectantly. Max hesitates. Then:
Hey, you're not allowed to wear makeup. Does mom know you have this?
Give it-back.
Make me.
Give it back'or I'll tell Daddy, that you hit her and then you'll be in trouble. Max smiles. Daniel-scowls at Esther, then gives Max the lipstick. He leaves. Max gives Esther a hug. Best friends forever.
What kind of sex do men crave most? Kate-looks back, shocked. Esther has picked up a "COSMOPOLITAN" from the newsstand and is'reading the cover aloud-to Max.
Put that away. Don't look at those. Kate puts the magazine back. There are several others just like it at kids-eye level. "Orgasms UNLIMITED!" "Thrill EVERY INCH- Of Him J" Kate'sighs and-'starts putting groceries on the conveyer.-
"How To Hit Your G-spot Every Time." Kate whirls. Esther has picked up the same magazine. Kate angrily snatches it and pulls Esther toward her. Max startles.
Stand where I can see yowl
May I be excused?
At least eat your chicken.
I'm not going to eat something that I don't like just to make you feel better. That's ridiculous.
Esther, stop it. Eat the chicken and then you can be excused.
Yes, sir. Esther starts eating. Kate gives John an exasperatedlook.
Hello, Sister Abigail.
Hello, Esther.
to need updated charts I t also going t from her. pediatrician and her dentist for my supervision report.
That's no problem. We've got a ch up with the dentist next week.
Isn't it lovely? Look at my new paintings. -I've=done a portrait -for everyone in the family. She shows sister Abigail the portraits pinned to her wall. There's also a painting of everyone together.
That's one good-looking family you've got..
I know. Aren't they perfect? Sister Abigail gives Kate and John an amused look-
I swear, we-didn't bribe her to say that. .y:
No explanation necessary. I don't think there e'anything that girl could say that would surprise me.
She dropped the 't--bomb on me a few weeks ago. 'Sister Abigail raises her eyebrows in comic, exaggerated surprise.
Well. I'm glad to hear she's finally come out of her shell.'
She's just testing us. It's been nowhere near as bad as we expected.
What kinds of things is she doing?
Talking back to me. Purposefully disobeying. She took Max to the park without ppesrmission the other day. That was the biggie. A girl they were playing with got hurt. A beat. Sister Abigail is suddenly apprehensive, tries to cover.
Really? is the girl all right?
She broke her arm and had to have something like eleven stitches, I think. She was lucky.
She doesn't. sound very lucky.
She's lucky she didn't break her neck. Sister Abigail seems troubled by this.
Relax;. wrists following fingers...
I'm Daddy's little girl, aren't I?
That's right. You both are. As they head home, they see JOYCE 'PATTERSON  jogging toward them. A blonde with dark roots and an overdone boob job., wearing a skimpy sports bra and mini shorts. She waves to tem.
Look at these three cutiesl
How're-you doing?
Hanging in there. Hey,,. I've got. a chair X want moved upstairs. You think you could come over and give me a hand? John glances toward home. Kate's at the door, waving goodbye to the College Student.- She sees John talking to Joyce and gives them an unreadable look before going back inside.
Uh, yeah. Maybe Kate and I -could help you -out.
Okay, I'll call you. John and Max start off again, but'Esther doesn't move. She's openly looking Joyce over from head to toe.
You have a l ovely body.
Come on, Esther. Let's go. Esther reluctantly follows. Joyce eyes her dubiously.
How was the.iide? Did you have fun? Max nods'and heads off; but Esther hangs back, eavesdropping:
Didn't waste -arty time-turning that divorce settlement-into a tit job, did= she?
I didn't notice.
Yeah, right. She's teasing, but there's something biting underneath it. Esther walks away, sipping on her juice box..
We want to go in by ourselves)
Okay, just make sure you hold her hand.
I will. - The girls. run inside. John smiles, but Kate watches anxiously.
Let's play "hide and seek." You go first. Max excitedly runs off. Esther watches her vanish into the CROWD. Moments later,-Kate and John appear. Rate-nervously looks around.
Where's Max?
I don't know. I was trying to hold her hand, but she pushed me and ran away.
Oh,.my God...
It's okay. Did YOU see where she went?
This way, I think. She points the wrong way. Kate takes her hand and they quickly move through the crowd, looking for Max. John stands on a bench for a better vantage, Kate grabs passersby:
Have you seen a little girl in-a fish costume? She has short brown hair? Nobody's seen her. Kate grows frantic. Esther watches with a nonchalant smile, enjoying the drama.- She tugs on Kate's arm.
i Mommy, I want scene cotton candy. - ' 'ti
Not now, Esther I
Kate, please. Take it easy. She's gotta be around here Then Kate spots Daniel approaching, holding Max's hand.' Kate breathes a sigh of.relief and rushes to give Max a fierce hug.
Are you all right?- Don't you ever run off like that[ What were you thinking?
They were playing "hide and seek."- I- saw Esther let her run off. Esther gives him a sharp look. John turns on her, . angry.
Did you lie to us? What did I tell you about'holding her hand?
I'm sorry, sir. She looks like she's going, to cry. John sighs, then turns to Kate and Max. Esther gives Daniel a hateful look through her tears.
What's this? She shows Kate a little PLASTIC BAGGIE OF WEED. Daniel blanches when he sees it.. His.treehouse staah..
I wasn't taking it to school[
Then what was it doing 'in-your backpack?-
I don't knowl" She just put it there to. get me in troubles
Where would'Esther have gotten pot?
 She saw me wCth it in the treehouse.
Is that what...you're doing- out .there with Austin and Trevor? Smoking pot?! Daniel stammers. John stews-.
Off limits until further notice. Be heads to the house; Esther is playing in the backyard.. She takes John's hand and walks inside with him. Daniel watches them.
Why does she have to'dress like that?
She just likes the 'attention.
Well, I think it's immodest. I don't know why Daddy -likes her so much.
- What do you mean?
He's always smiling at her and talking to her. She wants him to come over to her house. Did you know that?  Please don't tell Aaddy I told. I don't want him to be mad at me.- Kate doesn't respond, clearly disturbed.
Esther, come on.
X told you, I don't like the de ntist.
There's nothing to be afraid of.
I know. Because I'm not- going-
Esther, get out of the cart Righ t now! For a moment, they just glare at each other. Mexican stand-off.. Then Esther sticks her nose in the air and does as she's told.
She hasn't had a check-up in about two years, so she's a little nervous.
she doesn't look to me. Now let's have a look at those co ppers. Esther just looks at the ceiling with her mouth tightly shut.
Come on, darling, open wide. -Esther eyes him anxiously; then reluctantly opens. Just a bit.
That a girl: Little wider... She opens more. He leans in to take a look... Suddenly, she SHdMPS dawnn his jinx s hard Pnou h to draw blo-mss fr and locks n like Rottweile] The Hygienist is frozen in shock.
Aaagh! Goddammit!! Help me with her ! The Hygienist holds her down while the Dentist tries to pry her mouth open. Finally, he yanks his fingers free, cradling them
Mrs. Coleman? Kate gives her a confused look. Then she notices Esther htanding behind the Hygienist with a-smug grin on'her face.
Hello, this is Sister Abigail calling for John and Kate. Please call me as soon as you get this message. I have. something that we need to discuss in person. It's regarding. Esther.
Esther stands at the top of the stairs, listening to-the message- She's heard everything. And she's scared. Scared and pissed.
He's been our dentist for ten years. Why would he lie to us?
I didn't say he's lying. I just think Ws-blowing it out of proportion,
I saw the bite marks. We're lucky he's not suing us.
Fine, but I don't believe for a"second that she just did it for no reason.
That's because she's always on her best behavior with you.
That's. not true. I've had to deal with her at her worst..
What you think is her worst is what she's like with me all the time. She's completely- different with me than she is with you'.,
So you've seen her haul off'and bite someone like an animal?
No, but she threw that fit at school
Yeah, because the other kids were harassing her. It's the same thing here.  She's from a completely different culture Kate. She has to be taught that this. behavior isn't appropriate but there's nothing malicious about it. If'she says she bit him because she was scared and he was hurting her, I don't see any reason not to believe her. A beat. Kate looks at him. She's stewing hbaut something.
So should .1 believe her when she says you've been hitting on Joyce Patterson?
 Did she say that? t.
Is it true?
of course not!
Did-she invite You over?'
She wanted me to help her move a chair.
Oh, - come on.
All right, she was obviously coming to me. But I shut her down.
Then why didn't you tell me?
Because I knew how you'd reactl
Really? You sure it wasn't because you were coming-on to her so obviously that an eight-year-old picked upon it? A long-beat. John sighs, resigned.-
How-long are you going to keep this hanging over me? It was ten years ago.
You keep-saying that. But it's only been about two years since you told me.  Having another child was -supposed to bring us together.
I'm sorry I didn't tell you-about it- x just feel like I've earned a little trust here.
I don't know what you expect from me. I might never completely trust you again. Not like before.
I gave you a second chance.
So-you can keep bringing uP my . mistakes over and Over, but we're not even allowed to discuss yours?
I was sick! You were just an asshole who wanted to fuck somebody else!
You were a danger to our children. If I didn't want to. make this work, I could have left months ago and nobody would have blamed me.
Nice. Is that-what-your mother told you? Angry tears well in her eyes. He realizes be went too far.. Kate goes into the bathroom and SLAMS the door.
THE MAN LADY YS Comm TOMORROW.
Look for the key to the treehouse.' -Max nods and they start searching the room. Esther rifles through John 's desk. - Nothing.  She looks in a closet. A DARK PLASTIC CASE with Two PADLOCKS on it catches her eye...
Do you -want to_ play? - A beat. Max shakes her head. Esther smiles, fingers the trigger. After a long, awful, pants wetting eternity, she lowers the gun.
You're right. We'd better not.
When you first asked about adopting Esther, I expressed some misgivings. But I wasn't completely straightforward with you. You see, I love children. I've worked with them my entire life. And the thing about love is that it sometimes clouds your judgement.
You said you suspected, some kind of abuse.
Yes, but there was something else. It was hard to say chat it was at first. Just-a feeling that she was a profoundly damaged little girl.
But none of these things were her fault.
That's; g I was reluc!tant to t anything bef ore. Now'I think th at may a have been a mistake.  Children like Esther, who've spent their entire lives-in institutions, have never had' a chance to 'form normal, lasting bonds.. The longterm effects of 'this- can be devastating.   In the very worst cases, children who fail to form early attachments are unable to learn the difference between'right and wrong. They can lie, cheat, steal --- .or worse -and and have no remorse whatsoever for their actions.' They view other human beings as objects, pawns for their amusement. And they can-be potentially very dangerous.
This.doesh't sound like Esther at all.
A severely character-disturbed child can appear to be -completely normal, -even exceptional. It's like they have two faces one-they show the outside world in order'to get what they want, and the other, their true face, lying just beneath the surface.
Let's go.
What about the orphanage in Russia where she was raised? Wouldn't they have been able to tell?
So the bottom line here is that you don't have proof of any of this.
That's true,-I don't. But I believe the circumstantial evidence is enough to warrant taking the next step.
Which is what? -
Get Esther out of'the house. Kate and John are stunned.
You want to disrupt the adoption over this?!
She's just a kids -
She's also the sole-survivor of a house fire that killed her last family.  It was arson. I did some checking. Someone deliberately set that fire. They-never caught who did it.
Wait a minute, you're not suggesting --
Pyromania is one of the warning signs of a character--disturbed child. Rate blanches, realizing:
Do you think she had something to do with'what happened to Yolanda? A long beat. Sister Abigail hesitates, reluctant to answer.
We can take her to Doctor -Browning. - Kate suggested doing that weeks ago. But I don't want to send her away. Not without at least some kind of proof. Sister Abigail.sighs, frustrated. Kate turns to him:
But what if 'the doctor says she's dangerous? A beat. He considers, uncertain and emotional.
Then I guess we.won't.bave any choice.
It's going' to be fine. Just wave your arms and make sure she stops. Max nods. Then Esther hears a CAR coming. She peers out'from behind the abutment. It's Sister Abigail's car. Esther quickly ducks out of sight.
Here she. comes. Wait until she gets close. Max nervously peers out from behind the abutment. Esther stands behind her. The car starts across the-bridge. Suddenly -- -- sthe pusbes Max it into the Load. stumbles and falls ri ht ,m. on of the _speed car.
Dear Lord! Are you okay, honey? Max looks up at her,-stunned, but unhurt. Sister Abigai1 is taken aback. She recognizes her.
Help me get her off the road. Max looks up blankly, then staggers .to her feet. They each take a hand and start dragging Sister Abigail's body, but she's heavy and they're little. It's all they can do to slowly move her. Then Esther hears something. There's ANOTHER CAR coming. It's still out of sight through the trees, but closing. Esther and Max hurriedly drag the body, struggling it to the side of the road, just as the car rounds the bend. Esther gives the' body a kick,, sending it rolling down the embankment. The car is almost on them. Esther and Max quickly hide under the bridge.. Esther grabs Max's backpack and pulls u wig _cm. The car reaches the bridge. Esther listens to it cross, tense, gun . ready... . but it passes Abigail's car and continues without stopping. Esther breathes a sigh of relief. Suddenly, there's a CROARING_noise from behind them.' Esther turns. It's Sister Abigail. She's still alive. She's trying to speak, but all that comes out is an awful'MOAN. Esther scowls and grabs the hammer. Sister Abigail looks up at her,' moaning louder. Then Esther brings-the hammer down. CRUNCH. The moans stop. Esther hits her AGAIN and AGAIN.
Did you get any on you? Max shakes her head, pale and shivering.
Good. Let's get her covered up. Esther starts scooping leaves and debris onto Sister Abigail's corpse. Max just watches fora long beat... then shuffles over like a zombie and helps her. Esther smiles..
If you tell on me, you'll get in trouble, too.
That doesn't matter. 'They'll send you to jail just for helping me bury her. Max starts to cry. Esther moves closer, comforting.
She wanted to take me away from you.
She's canceling some appointments-so we - can get her in-tomorrow. They hear Esther HUMMING upstairs and exchange a disgiuieted look.
Esther and Max? You saw them?
Oh-huh.
The treehouse is still locked.
Esther had the-keys.
You mean these keys here? He goes over tothe keepsake chest and opens it.. The KEY RING is there. He holds it up. Daniel flusters..
You're not lying to get them in- trouble,.are you? '
No, I swear!
 I don't know what's got into you lately. Just go to your room. Daniel leaves, dejected...
ssshhh.
You te.11 anybody what you saw and I will cut your hairless little prick off before you even figure out what it'-s for. Do you understand me? She rapidly cuts the air with the scissors -- SNIP-SNIPI Daniel frantically nods his head. She twists his hair again.
,= -it
I won't tells I won't tell, T xomisel p She holds him for a beat, savoring his fear. A DABX STAIN seeps through the bedspread. Esther' sees it and grins.
You pissed yourself. Daniel is crying, humiliated, belplesa.,'too terrified to dare make a sound. Finally, she releases him and turns off the light. As ick ad :it bWgan it she's go . up in a b all and his faa in his pillow stifl e his Bobs
It was nice talking to you, Alice. I I hope we can be friends.
I'd like that.  You can come on in-
o Well, let's start with what youca me here for. You don't have anything' be worried about with Bsther. John breathes a sigh of relief. Kate gives-a dubious smile.
She's not dangerous?
No, of course not.
Thank God.
It's. not all good news . You do have a serious problem in. your home..
May I go to the restroom?
I was able to coax her into admitting that there's been some tension between the two of-you. She's really tr!ing very hard to please you. The problem is that you're blocking her attempts-to attach-with you. That's why whenever something bad happens, you blame her, whether it's really her fault or not.
But that's not what's.been happening.
I doubt you're even aware that you're doing it. But subconsciously you t aunt her to be bad because' demonizing her is your way of covering your own feelings _ of inadequacy as a mother.
I don't feel inadequate.
But you do have doubts. You worry that' you Could relapse.
What does that have to do with'Esther?
Frankly, everything. Your guilt over what happened with Max is preventing- you from bonding with Esther. Kate turns to John, aghast, but he's taking this very seriously.
It's made you doubt your fitness as a mother. And that terrifies you. So you're having trouble with Esther, alonV comes Sister Abigail with these stories about her being some kind of monster and you believe them because
it f s easier than with yojW fear ,that there's something hwrong th you.
What the hell did she tell you?.
She didn't see. She doesn't know. She doesn't knout Ahitl She starts POUNDING the walls-of stall th her fists. We CUT between her a Dr.-B rowning talking to ltate
She's an extremely bright, thoughtful, sensitive little girl going through a very challenging time. Esther clutches her head, rocking back and forth.
Goddamn, coaksucking bitch!! Thinks she knows well Doesn't know shit!!
You just have to learn to be more patient. .You're really very lucky to have her.
Esther's fit has passed. She neatly composes herself and emerges from the stall... and sees that there's a WOMAN at the sink. She eyes Esther warily. Probably heard everything. Esther hesitates , then walks right by with. her nose in the air.
Thanks for the support back there.
Hey, I'm not a psychiatrist. And a lot of what she's saying makes sense. Before she can respond, Nate's cell phone RINGS. She turns away from John' and'answers it. He sighs and goes inside.
Hello?
is this Mrs. Coleman?
Yes. Who's calling?
This is Sister Judith from Saint Cabrini's. I'm sorry to bother you. Did-Sister Abigail make.it to 'her appointment with you yesterday? T tXNDER rolls.
We'll help in any way we can. We at least owe her that much.
Do you have any idea who could have done this? '
We have .a suspect in custody based on an anonymous -tip. We're just trying. to - place ham at the time we think the - murder took place. -
Who is it?
I can't tell you that right now. But he was found with the murder weapon, along with some cash and credit cards.
Jesus..:: at kind of sick' monster carjacks a nun? Kate glances up, sees Esther crouched on the stairs, watching... Daniel sits in a big recliner, sullenly playing a VIDEO GAME SHOOT- EM-OP. Kate is researching- on the Internet. We get CLOSE SHOTS of some of her Google.results, INTE Ctfs with Daniel BLASTING AWAY at alien baddies, his face angry and intense: "Character-disturbed Children." -BLAME.-BLAME-BLAME "Antisocial Personality Djsorder." PL f-BLAMI- "C ren o Kfll." Esther enters holding Max's handy leadin her around like a pet. Max numbly follows. They walk up to Daniel'in the recliner.
We want to sit there.
Esther, Daniel was there first. - Daniel eyes Esther. Wary, but defiant. She sighs and makes a -"cutting" motion with two fingers. Daniel brusquely turns off th e game and gets out of the chair. - As' he leaves, Kate calls out,
Daniel? Daniel? He ignores her and stomps upstairs. She watches him, concerned.
This is what Sister Abigail was telling us about. Character-disturbed children, 'Look at the, symptoms.
"Extended period of bedwetting. Speech pathology.  Abnormal eye contact." She doesn't have half of these.
I still think Doctor Brow have missed something. iner couldd
have just told her what she wanted; to hear. Look.  "Character-disturbed children are adroit manipulators. They can be exceptionally charismatic, oftentimes playing people off one another to get what they want."
save you showed this to Doctor. Bowiiing?
- I'm not 'seeing her anymore..
You're not going to therapy? When did you decide that?
When do you think? John sighs. A tense-beat.
I know you were. upset. But we have to at least consider the possibility that she's right about this.
No, we don't. Why does everybody around here get the.benefit of the doubt fro m you except me?
That's not true. I'm just..worried about you, that's all. We can hire someone to help you with the kids if it's getting to be too much.
I don't need help. All I want is for a doctor who knows what they're doing to give us a second opinion.
We're-not going to.keep taking her to doctors until you hear what you want to hear.
That's not what I'm trying to dal I -want this to work just as much as you do, but there are. serious questions. that we still don't havethe answers to. If Sister Abigail was right about Esther,. then people are dead because of
She didn't really believe that.
She didn't want to believe it. But she was worried enough-to think we should put her in foster care until we found out for sure.
For all, her good intentions, sister Abigail was not a trained psychologist. She'had certain suspicions about Esther and they turned out to be wrong. Why is can't you accept that?
 What if somebody else thought there was something wrong with her? Like the director of the orphanage in Russia? Esther stops painting and listens, suddenly apprehensive.
if it's a dead end, I'll drop it. - But if they say the same thine, then we'd have to get.a second opinion. John considers. He doesn't want to be unreasonable. He nods.
All right.- See what you can find out.
Esther' fumes. She angrily throws her painting across the room. rNT. KATE AND JOHN'S BATHROOM - MORNING John-is shaving with his shirt off. He sees Esther in the reflection, slyly watching him. She smiles at him.
Will, you take me to school today?
You'll have to get ready early,
I .don't mind.
Sister Judith? Hi, this is Kate .Coleman. I teas.wondering if you'd heard from anyone at the Sludianka Orphan's Shelter in Russia. sister Abigail said that...- Oh, you did? _  What do you mean?... Well, I don't understand. How could they not have any record of her being there?
What's the matter?
I don't want to go to school.
Why not?
I hate it. Nobody likes me there. Nobody ever likes me. She stares forlornly out the window. Big sad eyes. John sighs.
You want-to play hooky?  I can call in- sick and we'll go to -the zoo. What do you think? Esther smiles through her tears.
I'd like that very much. Kate drives up the steep hil1 in front of Daniel and Esther's school and stops at the end of a long'line of parents dropping kids off. Daniel. gets out without looking at Kate.
Daniel, wait a minute. He hangs back. Rate gives him and Max a concerned-.look.
How are you guys getting along with Esther? - , Daniel freezes. An apprehensive look passes between him and Max.
Fine, I guess.
Does she ever make you guys feel uncomfortable or do things you know she's not supposed to? Has she ever hurt either of you? Daniel wants to say something, but the frightened look on Max's face stops him. Rate realizes she's struck.a nerve.
Please. You can tell me anything.
-I gotta gu. Before Kate can stop -him, he closes the car door and runs off.
You don't know how-long I've waited for a 'daddy just. like you.
And a monany, too. Right? Esther hesitates. John notices. She gives a sad shrug.
I don't think !'Tommy likes me very much.
That's not true..- Mc=my loves 'you.
It's all right. I understand if she doesn't. It must be difficult to love an adopted child as much as- your own..
Sweetheart, .you are just as much a part of this family- as Danny. and Max are. Mommy doesn't love'you any less because you're adopted. Do you understand? She nods, but doesn't look convinced. John thinks.
Why don't you do something special for her? So she can see what a good girl you are. I'll bet she'd like that. Esther's face brightens.
That's a wonderful idea. I think I know just what I'm.going to do, too.
I have a special surprise for you, Mommy. Kate eyes her warily. No idea what to expect.
You do?
I picked this flower just for youl It's Kate's memorial orchid. Kate gasps. John is horrified. Kate reaches for the flower.
Estherl Put that down --l Esther laughs and playfully pulls it away. Kate grabs her by the wrist and Esther suddenly drops the flower, SHRIEKING in pain.
You're,hurting me! 's eaction. Esther runs from the room,-cr her wri wrist- e ying, and startled clutching Esther
What the hell did you do to her?
I just grabbed her arm! aohn hurries after Esther. Kate hangs back, picks the orchid-up" from off the floor. it's ruined.
She knew what it meant to me. She did it on purpose.,
It wasn't even her idea.  I'm the one who told her she should try to do something nice for you. He leaves.
Daddy! Daddy!
what in it, sweetheart?
My arm huits .'
It's a hairline fracture in her radius.
I swear, I barely touched her.
But.it was just an.accident.
It's routine. We're required by law to file. a report. Child Protective Services will be in touch to schedule a follow-up visit at your home. Kate is shocked. John shoots her a dirty look.
You know I would never hurt any of the-. kids on purpose.
I know. It's not what you do on purpose that scares me. Kate watches him go. ..Be turns away and takes Max upstairs.
We're having guests over for dinner. The Cashier nods. Like be gives a shit. Kate lowers her eyes.-
I can't wait for show-and-tell. I hope Mrs. Grosse. likes my paintings. I did one especially for her.. .Nobody responds. Kate's blocking her out. Esther doesn't mind.
Moumiy! My paintings! Kate eyes her accusingly.
You dropped them on purpose.
No, I didn't! I swear!. - Kate doesn't believe it for a second, but sees a CROSSING GUARD and a FEW KIDS hurrying to grab the paintings as they're carried off by the wind. Kate shoots Esther a dirty look, then sets the parking brake with an exasperated sigh and gets out to help...
Frazzled, Kate turns to. Daniel.. He points. to the van.
she hurries after it, but it's already.inoving too fast, picking up speed, rolling into oncoming e goes into a panic- fueled 'run,. sure erupting into ic., Kat
Drivers w van a of s Parked a ars eSHEERING gerssi door. c d Max is trapped in her car seat, helpless, eyes wide in mute terror,.as the minivan clears the parked cars, head ed for the intersection at the bottom of the hill.. Kate chases it, powsrlen s to do anything but watch.-
The minivan cams into the intersection. Tires S  horns cars yrgave , and s = hal . T T3 sh - b all and 0MV into a streetlight on the opposa.t e corns . Kate frantically dashes across the street, hysterical with fear, and throws open the back door. Max is crying and terrified, but safe. Kate 'scoops Max into her arms, clutching her to her chest. It's okay, baby. It's okay, you're all right. Mo_irimy' s got you...
I set the brake. . Bven if I hadn'tr the police said it wouldn't have.:rolled unless it was put in neutral.
But Max says she didn't see Esther do anything wrong. Max is cover.ng for her. And X don't think it's the first time.
It also-wouldn't be the first time that you've tried to blame Esther for. something that was really your fault.
This. isn-'t all in my head. Sister Abigail was right. There is something wrong with Esther. And I don't care anymore if I can't prove it. I'want her out of this house. John and Dr. Browning exchange a dark look.
I'll do whatever I have to,do to protect my children.
56 will 1.  That's why she's here. something in his voice makes Kate apprehensive. An uneasy beat.
I have an opening held for you at a residential rehabilitation clinic about forty-five miles from here. They specialize in extended treatment for women who are relapsed alcoholics. Kate is stunned silent. She gapes at. them. with a mix of anger and fear, unable to stop' a flash of guilt. How much do they know...?.
What are you talking.about?
I'll stand by you through this for as long as it takes. My mom'a already agreed., to 'help look after the - kids . .
Tell her not to bother.  I'd like you to leave now.
Kate, don't. John stands and takes something from inside the sideboard. Ile : sets it on the coffee table between them... qtr, s the wine bottl g she hid " he closet. Kate is stricken. She looks at it like it was a poisonous spider.
The girls found it while they were playing in your. closet.
The girls?" You mean Esther found it.
Yes, Esther found it. Does that make a difference? Is she lying? A beat. Kate's silence-is answer enough.
I didn't... I bought two bottles. I poured the other one down-the sink.
But not this onie. Again, no answer necessary.. Kate looks defeated, tears welling.
I'm not going to rehab.
I'm not going to leave you-alone with the kids again until you do. - .
I haven't had a drink in almost a year. John sighs, frustrated.- Dr. Browning intervenes, her voice infuriatingly even. and calm.'
Relapse is very common in early sobriety. We can help you. But not until you drop the charade. -
It's not a charade. I wanted to- drink i t. You have no fucking idea how.badly I wanted to drink it. But I didn't.  I know 1 should have told you..  I was just afraid of what you'd do.
I wanted you to come to me. That's why ,I didn't confront you with it last night. If Max had gotten hurt this morning, it. would've been because I trusted you tell me if there was a problem.
What happened this morning had nothing to do with this!
l f ow do you expect me to believe that?
Max and Daniel are the only reason I'm still sober. I would never do anything that would hurt them.
You don't think this behavior effects them?
You know damn.well what I'm talking about. _ Her voice is brittle now, barely controlled. A beat. The tears sta rt to spill.
When I look out at the pool and think...  When I try to imagine what would have happened if you hadn't come home early that day... it makes me want to kill myself. I would the before I let something like that happen again.
Then why-not throw both bottles away?
Becauso"I need help. i thought I could handle it myself, but I can't. I'll go back to-therapy. I'll start going to A.A. meetings.
That's not enough anymore.' I told you last time what I'd do if this'ever happened again. I'm trying to give you another chance.
You haven't heard.a word I've said.
I've heard enough. If it was just the two of us, that would be one thing. But I can't let you be in a position where you could hurt the kids.
I'm not the one you need to be worried aboutt Seven people close to Esther have died in the past year. Max was almost the eighth. now many more coincidences are you willing to ignore?
Kate, stop it. You're talking about an eight-year-old girl. And right now she's making a lot more sense than you are.
I know I haven't given you any reason to believe me. But you have to. I'm begging you.
I'm sorry. Maybe if you'd been honest with me from the start. But not now.
You either check into rehab this week or I leave and I take the kids with me. Esther leans close and whispers into Max's hearing aid:
I'll kill her it you tell..
Come on, you two. Let's go watch TV. Max wipes her eyes. Esther takes her hand and leads her away.
You sure you don't mind? She's not going to appreciate your being around.
.I don't care what she appreciates. You can't leave those kids alone with her while you're at work all day.  You're doing the right thing. Don't let her change your mind.
I'll see you tomorrow. Doris gets In her car. John looks conflicted.
Are you okay?' Max nods. Daniel sits down next to her. He lowers his voice.
Did Esther do something to the van? Max turns away and shakes her bead.
It's okay. You can tell no. I saw her jump out before .it started to roll. Max gives him a startled look, suddenly frightened.
No way. Dad won't believe me. You have to do it with me. Max shakes her head and starts signing, but Daniel can't keep up.
Slow down, 'I don't understand. Did she make the van crash? A long beat. Max reluctantly nods'. -
Then we have to tell Mom and Dad. Max starts crying. She signs, but Daniel doesn't understand. Frustrated, Max starts hitting him. Daniel grabs her arms
-Stop it!- She's going to kill us if we don't tell! Morn and Dad can protect us! Max. shakes her head. Daniel releases her.
Why not?
Daniel stops short. Max hesitates, then gets up and shows him the pictures that she hid from him when he first came in. They're crude crayon drawings of Max and Esther. In the first, Esther stands atop the rocket ship slide and pushes Brenda down the stairs while Max watches.. The= next one turns Daniel's blood cold. X &'s of Sister Abigail's murder. Esther stands over Sister Abigail with a bloody hammer wh e r e Max cowers under the bridge. The last one is of Esther and Max in the treehouse. Esther is covered in blood.
What did she do in the treehouse?
r She's coming.
Everything's going to be all right.
Going somewhere, Kate? Kate startles and whirls to check on Max. She's. fast asleep.
She's fine. Lot's not wake her.
What are you doing in here?
1-couldn't sleep. I was-afraid you might try to take Daniel and Max away. Kate stands frozen, frustrated and'angry.
Go to your room.
I'um not going to let you hurt my children. -
1m not the one who passedouutt drunk. and let I hear the first step is  -admitting that. you have a problem.
 Who told you about that. - Esther holds up Kate's journal:: Kate blanches.
It's in your journal. I found it a few weeks ago.. It's very intimate. 3 learned so much about you. Your marital troubles, your drinking problem. Where you hide your wine bottles. You have lovely handwriting, by the way. Would you like to bear my favorite part? Esther has a page marked. She reads:
"Eight weeks before my due date, Jessica died-from several undiagnosed birth defects. I hadn't felt her move for days, but now that I knew she was dead, I started-to feel her kick again. It's called phantom fetal movement, like the pain felt in a missing limb. I was an amputee and my baby was the lost part of me. Because of other complications, Doctor Kosgrove didn't want to induce. So I had to wait to go into labor. For sixteen days I carried Jessica's body and felt her ghostnow a kicking in my-belly. y womb coffin and inside me slept a corpse."  How perfectly hideous. No wonder you turned into a nasty, smelly drunk. Kate is dumbfounded, trembling with impotent rage and raw emotion.
Kate. You don't know how lucky you are, I'll never have children of my own. My father paw to that while I was still-in diapers. I. actually don't"remember a 7 time when he wasn't fucking.me.
 I don't want your pity.' He did it to make me strong. So 1 ,wouldn't turn out weak and 'pathetic like you..
I'mi pot weak..
Please. You're soft. Like,& worm. Losing your baby could have. made you stronger. But for you it's alwa s.more therapy and more- pills and more booze. Anything so that you don.'t have to actually face the so state of your miserable existence. And why should you? You've got John to carry your dead weight around.. But you know something? You don't deserve him. And sooner 'or later, he's going to figure that out. Esther stands up to leave. Kate-blocks her path.
What are you going to do? Hit me? -Kate. looks really tempted. A beat. She puts out her hand for the journal. Esther gives it to her with a smile. Kate steps aside.
See you tomorrow. She leaves. Kate glares after her. -
I need to know where she came from and I need to know now.
I'm sorry, we've called every orphanage in Moscow trying to find out.
We adopted her from yquI How can you not know anything about her?!-
The Wallaces could have adopted her illegally. Are you-sure remember anything that could he doesn't?
I'll call you back. She curtly hangs up-
I say Professor Plum did it in the Conservatory with the candlestick...
Jesus Christ... She flips through the: Bible and shakes it, but there's nothing else. She notices that the Bible -is in a foreign language. There's an ink stamp on the inside cover. it's in the sa me. language as the Bible. "See on saarne rnatituat omand." She focuses on two words: seamne.Inatituut.
Where are you going?
Bathroom. Esther eyes him as he leaves.
Saarne Instituat. Xas ins -eaan teid
Uh, hello.- I'm sorry, do you speak English?
Ruidas, palun7
Do you speak.English? Does anybody there speak-English? This is very- important.
Ma ei sac aru. Dote Like silmapilk. Kate starts to-say somethf.ng, but she's interrupted by HOLD MUSIC.
lookslaround. o The coast is clear. Hetstartsclimbing...
Hello?
Is this the Saarne Institute?
yes.
I need to talk to someone about one of your children. She was adopted by.an American family about a year ago.
I beg your pardon?
A little girl, possibly adopted from your orphanage. I'm trying to find somebody who might remember her.
This girl, she is -not come from here.
Can't you at least check?
No, I am sorry.
Please, I know she at least spent some time there.'
No, 'ou not understand. Saarne Institute is not orphanage. It is mental hospital. Off Rate's shocked reaction:
he pulls Bsther' blood-stained d ess fro t L e c ck.
I couldn't have,done it by myself, you - know. Daniel whirls around. 'CAMERA REVEALS Esther standing in the doorway behind him.- She's holding something behind her back.
Max is just ag-guilty as I am. She steps toward him'and he backs..away, angered by her words, but wary of those hands-behind her back. What's she biding...7
You leave her alone.
Think about it. Somebody had to have helped me. If they find that dress, they won't just be coming for me. They'll becoming for Max, too.. Is that really what you want? She's maneuvering him away from the door. Daniel screws up-his courage and stands his ground.
You're full of shit. I'm telling Mom what you did and you're gonna fry for it.
Goodbye, Daniel.
It's called the Saarne Institute. S-A - A-R-N-E. it's in Estonia:
Estonia? This can't be right. All he r paperwork is from Russia.
Please, just try to find out if sh e was ever a patient there. I'm sending them a-picture of her right now.
He hugs the side of the treehouse, panicked. The FLAMES grow higher, licking at his feet. No place to go now but up. He reaches for the edge of the roof and struggles to pull himself onto it, his legs kicking out over empty space. He gets an elbow on the sloped roof and starts wriggling up onto it... .suddenly -- he sue. He glide dawn, arel grabbing the q2 9 t h e with his fin e s aJ the last seco Esther gasps, excited, like she's the front row of a great sports event.
Oh, my God! Daniell Baby, can you hear me? Please, baby! Wake up. He doesn't move. Kate calls out to Doris:.
Call nine-one--onel Doris hurries back to the house. Kate catches Esther watching her warily.. Kate glares at her with pure hate.
Get in here.
She can ride with us.
I'm not letting her out of my sight..
Can we see him? -
In a little while. He 'a resting in
Will he be able to tell us what happened? A pointed glance-between Kate and John. Dr. Rajan doesn't notice.
It's possible. There's no way of - knowing for sure what he'll remember until he wakes up. Esther shifts nervously. Not the answer she was hoping for...
She-told me she just made it up, but it's.a real place.
There has to be some other explanation. She didn't come from an insane asylum!
How do we know? The orphanage we thought she came from has never even' heard of her[- Everything. about her could be a lie!
We have her passport, her birth certificate, her school and medical- . records --
It's just paper, JohnI From halfway around the world!-- This isn't last me being paranoid. Call. Saint Cabrini's yourself. if 'you don't believe me. A beat. John looks like he's wavering.
Your own mother was there this time. Only Esther or Daniel could have started that fire. I know who I think did It. Do you? .
I don't know what to think anymore.
Well, I'm done connecting the dots for you. You can believe what you want about me. Blame me for everything. I'll leave tonight if you want me to, on one condition.
Can I have a dollar for the pop machine? Doris gives her a dollar.from her'purse. Esther smiles and heads toward the vending machines.. Max watches her go. But as soon as Esther's out of sight, her cheery face turns to graiii.te. She puts the dollar in her pocket and sneaks away...
I'm.calling for Katherine Coleman. - This is Doctor V.rava from the Saarne Institute in Tallinn. Please- cill me immediately;..
What-is it, sweetie? Suddenly, a CALL comes on the overhead speakers:
Code ninety-nine, ICU. Code ninety- nine, ICU.
Oh, My. God... Daniell She and John run after Dr. Rajan. Doris quickly grabs Max to keep her from following. Kate and John follow Dr. Rajan.to the room where a CODE TEAM races to resuscitate Daniel.
Dan.iL-I! Kate and John try to enter the room, but the ICU NURSE stops them.
What's happening --?1
You have to stay out here. _ They catch a glimpse of Dr. Rajan picking up defibrillator paddles before the door is SLANHEI) in their terrified faces.
I'm sorry.. His injuries were more severe than we first thought. John chokes back tears. He holds Kate close as she sobs.
Oh, no... Oh, no... Oh, my baby... _
We're so sorry. A terrible loss, we're so sorry... Kate gets up and rushes into Daniel's room in time to see the ICU Nurse cover his body with a sheet. Kate collapses to the floor, weak with horror and grief. John tries to comfort her. Then slowly, Kate's eyes turn steely and her grief burns into rage. She pushes. John away and stands up.
Where is she?
What did you do?! Heads'turi. Doris and Max are taken aback. Kate looks insane. She strides.toward Esther, gaining momentum with every step, but Esther just looks up at her with a half-hidden smile on her fa ce.
What did"you do to him, you bitch?!. Them ,he slaps sE ther As ha as she. cmn h t e face, sending her reeling to it fioot  Everyone is-horrified.
Kate! Stop it! Rate looks ready to hit her again, but a NURSE holds her back.
Esther touches her mouth. She's bleeding. For a beat, she just lies r sr - uina shock he Th o John u and-in g bursts a into tear sen en-shewsees stantly
Daddy! Daddy! Help me! John scoops her into his arms; Kate is apoplectic. It takes TWO ORDERLIES to hold her. Max watches, crying.
She killed him! He was going to live and she killed him!1
She was out here the whole time! Dr. Rajan rushes in, readying a syringe.
No! Get away from me l i!
Hold her still! A small crowd has gathered, watching with horror and pity as the Orderlies overpower her. Dr. Rajan-grabs Kate's arm, quickly hunts for a vein, then jabs the needle-in. Kate screams.
We can keep her sedated overnight. John nods. He waits for Dr. Rajan and the Nurse to leave, then walks over and looks,down at Kate. She's fighting to stay awake.
Mom's driving us home. I think it's better if you stay here tonight. I don't want you around the kids like this. Kate weakly grasps his hand, her voice a thready whisper:
John... Please... Please don't let her take my family... A long, emotional beat. John hesitates, conflicted. Then he places her hand back on the bed and turns away. She tries to call out, but doesn't have the strength. - She sees the girls waiting in-the hallway. Max has been crying. She looks scared. John leads them all away. And the last thing Kate sees-before blacking-out again is Esther's devious smile...
What's wrong, sweetheart? -
She's thinking about Daniel.  Aren't you?
Max reluctantly nods. John gives her a sad look.
Me, tQO. Esther enters and stands next to john at Max's bedside.
Sweet dreams. - As she kisses max good night, Esther fuitively redches out and grabs Max's HEARING AID from off her.nigbtstand... l f 7T. ESTHER'S BEDROOM - NIGHT - Esther stands at her closet, 'looking through-her pretty dresses, leasantly.SUNG to herself. She holds one up to her chin, looks at herself in the mirror. Then another. She chooses a RUFFLY DRESS and lays it out on her bed. Shersands ov er it with a a pair of-Scissors in her h a nd , e y eing -it app g y. After -a thoughtful beat, she starts cutting its rufflesoff...
Hello, darling.
What are you doing?
Get down from there. That knife's too sharp for you to be playing with. Esther climbs down from the chair and nonchalantly carries the cheese and cracker plate to the dining room, as-if he hadn't said anything. John follows her, dumbfounded...
What is this? -
I wanted to do something special for you. I don't like my daddy to be unhappy.
But why are you dressed like that?
Don't you like it?
No, I don't.- You're not supposed to play with Mommy's makeup.
I'm sorry, sir. I.just want to be as' pretty for you-as she is.
You don't need makeup to be pretty. Esther is touched. She gazes up at. him lovingly.
You really mean that, don't you?
of course. Why don't you go wash your face and we'll tuck you back into bed.
But-1 worked so hard. Can't we stay up just a little longer? She gives him the big, sad eyes. They're a little disconcerting under all the makeup.. John sighs.'
-All right. We'll have a little snack and then off -to bed. Esther beams. John sits down, reluctantly humoring her. Esther starts pouring sparkling water into the glasses.
We really. should be drinking that bottle-of wine, but I couldn't find it.
Little girls aren't allowed to drink wine.
I'm not so little. To family..
Why don't you sit down?
I like being close to you. She gazes into his eyes and.touches his face. John moves her hand away, suddenly very uncomfortable. She hesitates, nervous... then eans saes Qn h. John grabs her arms and abruptly pushes. her away xn-shock and near-panic.
What's wrong?
Don't ever do that again.
I. thought you loved me. You said I was pretty.
Of course, I love you. But not... it's different than how I love Mommy. You're my little girl.
Will you stop saying that? We can be together now, don't you see? She can't come-between us anymore.
Who can't? You mean Mommy?
She's not my inormyl Please, sir, I'll do anything for you... She reaches out to touch his face again, but he grabs her hand.
Esther, stop it! I mean it. This is wrong.
Am I being bad? -   You can spank me. it you-'.d like. I'll let you. I won't, evn cry. Unless you want me to.
God ouoin A beat. Esther looks heartbroken. Suddenly, she tries to kiss him again, desperate this time, throwing herself at him, pushes her to the floor. She frantically crawls back to him. Be hurries to the other side of the table.
Please! Please! You're ruin.ing it!
Jesus Christ, lust stop talking! Go upstairs and wipe that shit off your facel Right nowt Esther runs upstairst crying.- John just gapes in utter disma and revulsion. He runs Into the kitchen and throws up in the sink.
Hello?
Who's calling?
Did you get the picture I:sent? Did you recognize her?
Yes, X did. Where is she now? Is- she. with you? -
No, she's at home with my husband.
Neetudl Call him ut and to get your family of  e ush er call the police. -
He won't do it. He's not going to do anything without some kind of proof.
Then tell him that the little girl in that picture isn't a little girl. Kate stops short, confused and suddenly frightened.
What are you talking about? The picture I sent, you was of our adopted daughter. She's only eight years old.
-No, she's not. She has a pituitary disorder that causes proportional dwarfism. She only Jcz Tike a child.
Her real name is Veera Klammer, she escaped from here eighteen months ago and she's thirty-two years old! Esther SCREAMS, slowly scratching her face with her fingernails..
This can't be. There has to be a mistake.
Does she have the scars?
What scars?
We'had to keep het .in a restraint jacket when she was here to stop her .from hurting' our staff, but she was constantly fighting against it until the collar and cuffs began deep into her skin. She wound up p scars from it. Around her wrists and neck; Esther black from her wrists and neck, revealing althe ly r scars over sew
curls her upper lip, looking at her top teeth. She reaches up, pulls on her teeth and -- RA-CLICK. y come out
She even had a dental.appliance'made to complete the illusion by disguising her adult teeth. Re r- gerfect, earl white }aabY Beth e- d8rn at a f, e s t of- CRgmp, Eoia, fTx. DR. VtAVA When she was finally arrested, she continued the pretense to stay out of jail and: was sent to an orphanage.
You're not the first to have been fooled. She's even-been adopted before. A family here in Estonia took her in.and lived with her fog over six. months. They never suspected. Kate-hesitatesa'b.eat, almost afraid to ask:
But why was ahe at your hospital?
Veera is dangerously insane.. She was molested by her father and sexualized at a very early age. When. he. took another lover, he told Veera it was because she could heverbe a real woman. Veera murdered them both.
just stares at herself in the mirror. With her scars revealed, her face scratched, her mascara streaked down 'to her chin, and her awful, yellow, snaggletoothed sneer, she looks like a monster.
She now sees herself as trapped in the body of a. child and it disgusts her. She wants to. be what her father considered to be a "real woman." She t wants o be a wife, a mother, a lover. She wants to grow up. - Suddenly, -she grabs her chair and SMASHES the mirror with it. Then she whirls and swings the chair into her aquarium with a 'feral scream --= CRASH! Water-and fish flood onto the floor.
When she was adopted here in Estonia, = she tried to find love where she had found as a child. With her new lather. When he refused her, she bordered the entire family in, their sleep.
And then she burned the house down...
Yes. How did you know? off Kate's horrified look --
Esther? Are you-all right? She's not here. The light is on, but the room is empty. Fish are still FLAPPING around on the floor,-mouths. gasping. John gives the-broken aquarium an unnerved look.
Esther, where are you? No answer. He turns off the light, about to look "elsewhere... then stops. With the overhead light off, the room is lit only by the black light in Either ' s broken aquar i u m, t 7UVALI ma Esther s p a n i tin ha a chap n S 's painted t = that they ook f een vri d er black h - - - John takes a closer look, turning the black light on and o ff. Unde gal lights the painting he saw when he first met Esther,- a mother lion and her sleeping cubs. .[Inds black Limos the cube are now dead and 'the mother's mouth .s dripping with blood. The paintings that looked like typical family portraits in normal light are now nightmarish visions of death and violence. In one, Kate's eyes have been gouged out. In another, Daniel's throat has been slashed. In the picture of the whole family, John- and Esther look normal, but Kate, Daniel, and Max are all decomposed corpses. John staggers back in shock. The telephone RINGS, startling him. The answering machine picks up. He hears KATE.'SVOICE,
John[ For God's sake, pick up the fucking phone!
John staggers to the stairs, the handle of the scissors jutting from his eye socket. But just as he hits. the first step, Baer rushes out and pushes tine cMm  the etz{rs.
John-goes flying, head over heels, crashing into the railing hard enough to SPLINTER it, and lands hard at the foot of the stairs. Be lies there in a heap, too stunned. to move. Esther appears at the top of the stairs. looking down at him. She. has a JU} P ROPE in her hands and starts slowly walkinq toward him, softly singing:
When I was juuust, a lifitle g .iirl I asked'my mother, what .will I be... leg is broke John tries to stand, but cries out in agony. Big He looks up, sees the table with the PHONE on it. As he painfully crawls toward it, Esther closes in on him, singing and winding the jump' rope around her fists like a garotte.
Que sera, sera, Whatever will be, will be... The future's not ours to see... John reaches for the phone, actually touches it, when Esther straddles him from nd,- the iump rope around his neck, and starts strangling with it. The phone.falls out of reach. John itoo dazed from the fall to fight.
When I grew uuup and feeell in looove I asked my sweetheart what lies ahead Will we have rainbows, day after day Here's what my sweetheart said.-.. John chokes t clawing at the rope as she twists it tighter aid tighter. Finally, his head droops his remaining eye goes blank. Be'a dead. Esther gently lowers has body to the floor, a tear running down her cheek. She kisses him. Whispers in his ear:
Qua sera, sera. Suddenly -- a GASP from upstairs. Esther whirls. I 's 5 N ax.. She stands atop the .stairs,- paralyzed- with fear. She's, seen everything. Esther, looks-u at her with a reassuring smile on her awful, mascara-streaked, blood-splattered monster face.
It's all right, baby. -Come to Mommy.
Shit l. She scrambles to her feet..
I need the police. There's an intruder in my home. _
Max carefully peers out from.around a corner... Suddenly -- no sound.. This is how Max experiences the world. A silent vacuum. Her perspective is shot MOS. The hallway is empty and Max cautiously maces her way toward the stairs. Suddenly, Esther emerges from Max's room. Max quickly ducks into Daniel's room. Esther doesn't see her:
Max looks around for, a place to hide. She sees a TOY ROBOT lying on the floor amongst Daniel's things...
Esther edges toward Daniel's room, gun raised. There's a STRANGE GRINDING SOUND coming from inside...
Esther enters and looks around, confused. There's a PM OF BOOKS that.have been knocked to the floor, but Max isn't here. Then she sees what's making the GRINDING noise.' It's the TOY. ROBOT. It's been placed atop a bookshelf, motor grinding, walking on wobbly legs. As it walks, it pushes books off the edge of the, bookshelf- onto the floor. That's what made the noise that lured her here. Esther scowls furiously at the robot and SHOOTS it. Her back is to.the doorway, so she doesn't see Max emerge from her hiding place in the bathroom. and slip- past. Racing through. the streets, running stop lights. Rate is still on her cell. -
we have officers on the way, ma' amn.
Well, where the hell are they? Jesus Christ, I'll be there before they will
Ma'am,- I need you to stay calm. 'Do not approach the house. Let the officers --- Rate hangs. up.
Streaking rain casts frightening shadowa in the glassed-in terrace. Max quickly sneaks in and crawls under one. of the numerous plant tables. Hanging leaves droop almost to the floor, hiding. her. But as she curls up in the shadows, she bumps into a table leg and unknowingly knocks over a FLOWER POT. MOS: -The flower pot SMASHES TO PIECES on the floor directly behind Max.' Naturally, she doesn't bear it.
But E e does. She turns. Eyes narrowing, suspicious.
Max cowers underneath the table with her back to the door. She oesn gee Esther enter.
John! Oh, my God! John!'1 She rushes to him, but it's obvious that he's dead. She leans over his body and bursts into tears, aching at what has been done to him... then stop and steels herself for what ]sh jds to do..
Kate hurries to the keepsake box and rummages for the.keys. Can't. find them. She. quickly looks around. Her breath catches. The CASE l ies empty on t floor, u let sca tered around it.
Kate. runs in, sobbing She sees the big knife that Esther was using earlier, grabs it. Reconsiders. She throws it aside an d instead draws a huge goddamn BUTCHER'S KNIFE from the knife block.
Kate throws the door open. Max's bed is empty.
No!!
Kate runs back out, - crying, frustrated, knife' trembling in- her hand. She calls Esther out,.voice thundering with rage;.'
Esther hears her real name and freezes. Realization bits. Gig.'s up. It's over. Her eyes flit, panicky. She quietly darts away.
Esther opens the- door to the basement. She pulls open the breaker box and starts flipping SWITCHES.
Kate cautiously moves down the hall suddenly, he lights go plunging - tlw o se into darkness.
Esther sneaks upstairs, hugging the wall, gun held ready. She pauses at the top of the stairs, waiting. Lightning FLASHES.. 'The- hallway is empty. She sidles along the wall...
MOS: Max is huddled on the floor, terrified. Suddenly, there's a FLASH of lightning --'mid Bhe A= fiba movement tmn qb The 7oUvered slBts-.in .t225 t efo8.
MOS: Max watches the shadowy figure, nearly hyperventilating, not realizing that it'e Kate. It's coming closer, closer... then moves away. Max catches her breath.
Kate stands by the door with her back to the wail, holding her bloody shoulder. Her eyes flit, searching for a weapon. Nothing.
=-bnt Rate mat-out TA S her 'and the tw-q of i o.tvmbl n down the s. They-hit the already splintered secon of the mailing and t gives way- -- CRASB 1   Rate and Esther fly through the smashed railing and fall a tangled heap. Kate cracks her head. The gun goe toSthe floor s They're both stunned by the fall, breath knocked out. Kate is dazed, unable to move. Esther recovers first, looks around for the gun, can't find it. Kate stirs, fighting to stay cons cious. Esther squirms away from her crawls over to John's body, and wrenches the scissor from his eye so ket. Kate sees her but can only watch helplessly as Esther stagg p towa-rd her, bloody scissors clutched in her little fist like a dagger,
eees this and desperately searches fot the gun. She spots it under'nder a nearby table and starts dragging he rself toward it... the Esther hears gun S he- es Y%ate for the guw,tnd at her, scissors raised above head g screaming with hate. Kate reaches whi the n. Esther 's , almost-on her. Kate grabs the gun, ls a nd
Please" don't hurt me, Mommy. rat fucking chance, bitch. Kate SHOOTS her again. This one goes right between those pretty eyes. Esther falls to the floor, dead gaze staring at the ceiling, a pool of blood .expanding around her pretty Shirley Tem ple curls. Kate drops the gun and crawls over to Max, scooping her into her arms and hiding her face from the horrible sights all around them- For a long moment, mother anddaghte r o justholdaeacheother close. Kate strokes Max's hair, cry ng u What Kate can't see"is the'slack, traumatized expression on Max's bloodied face. .vacant and emotionless. That spark you should see in the. eyes of a"child, gone forever. CAMERA PULLS BACK and we
