Where were you... when Eden was lost? Like every other kid on my block, I was in the middle of a dream, envious of those who were chosen to be part of mankind's greatest quest. Dreaming of the unknown and trying to imagine what only the lucky few would encounter. We PUSH IN towards the cockpit windows and...
Muffled SCREAMS are heard somewhere deeper inside the ship.
As the entire world watched in wonder, there were only a few, skeptical of the journey's success.
CAMERA slowly moves past a corner to see the middle-of a violent confrontation. One OFFICER is locked inside a sleep chamber, banging on the glass and pleading with panic. Another OFFICER is on the floor, mortally wounded, his body still twitching with his head bashed in. The INSANE OFFICER, a young corporal is moving from terminal to terminal, typing in commands with a casual and emotionless nature. Blood streams have run down his face from both ears and nose as he continues to type commands into the flight computer... heightening the trapped OFFICER'S muffled,. screams.
The INSANE OFFICER hits the final command key and warning buzzers ignite with flashing lights. He closes his eyes, taking a breath of relief.
The trapped OFFICER is seen SCREAMING in silence inside his own pod.
Where was I... when I heard we'd lost Eden? Just like every other kid on my block... I was dreaming... of being one who would be chosen to follow. As we move closer to the asteroid field of sleep pods, it's obvious that time has passed, a single skeleton inside each of the pods, hands in a clawing position towards the glass. We PUSH IN towards one pod, moving towards the SKULL, still locked in a SCREAMING position, wide mouthed and...
Burns are red! Bruises... blue- His voice echoes into the dark, alone in a cavernous room as he pauses, struggling for orientation. He gets to his feet, muscles twitching. His short-cropped hair is... pure white.
Hey...? HEY!!? Someone? A constant low RUMBLE is present, joined by the occasional MOAN and CREAK of a large ship. A SHUDDER travels through the room with a random FLICKER of LIGHTS to reveal... A massive steel compartment, tangled with technology. It's cold and institutional. High-tech computer terminals slope out of the floor. The FLICKER passes, taking us into black. We hear him: fumbling through the room, switches are thrown with no result and compartments are pulled opened and... SNAP! A glow stick comes to life. He squints at his darkened surroundings with confusion. A drip of liquid catches his eye and he staggers back to his sleep pod. He grabs the dangling tubes that were ripped from his arm and he sucks on the tube, pulling as much liquid into his mouth as possible. After a few heavy gulps, he suddenly heaves towards the floor. He painfully forces himself to drink, gasping. He looks up to notice two sleep chambers next to his own. He leans closer with the glow stick to see the first one, the name plate reading; 2nd Lt. Cooper. It's EMPTY. The third pod's name plate reads; LT. PAYTON. Deep inside there is the figure of a man, asleep under a mask.
Payton? Lieutenant... Payton? He turns back to his own pod, seeing the name plate that reads; CORPORAL BOWER. Even this name doesn't seem familiar.
Bower? Bower...? The loss of memory heightens his fear even more as a shiver travels through his body while he staggers towards a nearby computer terminal. He taps the keys on a computer terminal. Nothing. He frowns, leaning closer.
As he taps the keyboard, powder blooms out from under his fingers. He wipes the surface of the panel to see a thick layer of dust. Under the smear is... Elysium - Flight Systems - Operation Terminal #87153-D. He pulls focus to see... his FINGERS are trembling uncontrollably, an odd vibration of nerves. He slowly makes a fist with concern.
Bower. He opens the locker to see an assortment of personalized belongings, uniform and gear, none of it seeming familiar. He uses a towel to wipe off the layer of sweat and oily substance coating his body, pausing to see an identification tattoo on his forearm that reads: FLT>>005015. He pulls on a black flight suit, emblems and military markings of rank on the chest. He pulls on shoes and a tool belt with a high powered pen-lamp. On the inside of the locker is a emergency manual card with block figures displaying breathing and stretching exercises, labelled; Hyper-Sleep Disorientation Recovery Procedures.
 .in the event of mild memory loss... resulting from extended- He freezes on... A PHOTO tucked inside the door. EVALON, a beautiful young woman smiling towards camera. He stares at the-photo, his frown deepening with confusion. He checks the back for a name, but nothing. He tucks the photo into a pocket and exits.
BOWER breaks open a storage bin, pulling out beverage packets and a cup, taking a seat at the control desk. With Evalon's photograph leaned against the console, he becomes lost in a gaze as he gulps down nutrient pills and stirs an instant coffee as we...
There is a conflict in his eyes, memories trying to return.
An image FLASHES past, EVALON smiling as BOWER kneels next to her, gripping her hands. BOWER'S gaze remains hollow, frown deepening as he sips the cup and... winces with disgust.
Faa-uck! Distant THUMPS. He pans the pen-lamp across the ceiling and toward the sounds... PAYTON'S sleep chamber. THUMP, THUMP, THUMP: Muffled and desperate. CRACK! Bower jumps back as someone kicks their way out from inside, the hatch bursting open. Out climbs... PAYTON, a man in his forties, but the rugged physique of a man half his age, lean and agile. His military-style hair cut is also pure white. Gasping for breath, he hits the floor as BOWER tries to help him. PAYTON jerks with shock.
Whoa! Hey... easy! Lt. Payton? You're- Sir... whoa! PAYTON chokes and gasps, then glances up, giving Bower a once over with a frown and a sobering tone.
Who are you?
Bower. Corporal... Bower, sir. I'm the-
That's right. You're waking from
Corporal?
Yes, sir. This is disorientation from-
corporal... Bower.
Yes. That's right, I'm-
Wanna get that fucking light out of my eyes, pal?
Sorry... sir. PAYTON rubs his face with a frown.
Where... are we?
We're aboard the Elysium. From what I've
I don't... really know. There's no power in the com and I can't even-
Where's the... rest of the crew? It's our shift? Our rotation-
I believe so.
Aren't they suppose to be here... to wake us?
Sir... I don't know where anyone is. PAYTON takes breaths, trying to regain his senses, glancing around at their darkened surroundings.
Hit the lights, will ya?
Ah... we're having some power problems-
Who woke you up?
Umm, not sure. It had to have been the flight computer. There's no one here...  .except us.
Cold in here. BOWER grabs him a towel and water container, turning back to see PAYTON doesn't waste any time, stretching his limbs.
There's no power coming off the main grid. Can't fire any of the...  Dynos. Can't even open the doors. PAYTON glances to the other empty sleep-chamber with a frown.
 Our 2nd Lieutenant? I don't know where he is. It was empty when I woke up. None of the systems are on-line. Mainframe is down, so I don't know how or why it engaged independently-
Bower .
Yeah?
Until I have two coffees you're just gonna have to repeat all this shit, so let's just idle here for a bit.
Sorry. I just- Just glad to see you awake. i was... a little concerned. I didn't know what to do if- PAYTON gets to his feet, stumbling. BOWER catches him under the arm as they stagger into the wall.
Easy... Lieutenant. Easy.
Coffee?
I'm on it.
Good man. BOWER helps him to the locker room as LIGHTS FLICKER past.
This is you, sir.
How do you know that?
1 It's... the name on your sleep pod, sir. PAYTON opens the door to see his belongings inside, a photo of WIFE  inside the door. He stares at it with utter confusion. BOWER takes this in, looking to the memory recovery card inside the locker.
it says that the memory loss is only suppose to be a momentary loss that's-
Very reassuring. I guess when you gamma the brain into extended REM, sometimes it can take a while to get it back. PAYTON pulls on his flight uniform and squeezes his feet into his shoes. BOWER notices the identification tattoo on his forearm, partially obscured from view; FLT>>00... . Unlike his own, PAYTON'S tattoo is faded with age.
I've been awake for at least an hour and I still can't remember my... anything.
Listen, the last time I crawled out of a hyper bunk, it took me... quite a while to get it all back. BOWER holds his frown as PAYTON squeezes his finger into a wedding ring.
What was... your last flight, sir?
I've gone through this before. I just can't remember why I would agree to do it again. PAYTON goes to close his locker and BOWER motions with a serious tone.
Sir? I know this is going to sound strange, but do you even know where we're going? I can remember the training, but... not the mission. Know the procedures, not the... destination.
I figured you'd tell me.
Didn't even know the ship's name until I saw it-on the console. For all I know this was another damn training exercise-
Trust me, it's not. if this is a simulation... PAYTON notices both of their reflections off the mirrored panel inside the locker... revealing their WHITE HAIR.
Someone is taking the joke a little far. He shuts the locker and they exit, the flashlight's beam panning away, taking us into darkness.
None of the activators are working.
Figures. We can ride two hundred thousand tons of space freighter across the galaxy without a dent in the hood, but can't get one good cup of coffee. PAYTON flips a few switches with no result of power.
Without the mainframe, we can't connect. I don't know how we'll ever be able to- PAYTON is in his element at the control desk, flipping open an emergency auxiliary-power panel. He snaps open a handle and he forcefully gives it several rotations with a MOAN of whirling magnetos. The hand-crank allows a dim glow of electricity to the light panels.
Oh, I- didn't even think of that.
PAYTON gives him a look with a grin and flips a switch.
Payton on the con. Respond? This is Lt. Payton of flight Team...? Shit-
Five.
Five? How do you know that? BOWER pulls up his sleeve, exposing his tattoo ID. PAYTON nods, "good thinking."
Lt. Payton of Flight Team Five. Does anyone copy? Anyone... respond? Anyone awake up there? Dead static.
Team Four suppose to be here for the shift rotation. Where could they be?
Fucking teamsters. Maybe they couldn't get to us. BOWER eyes the third empty sleep-chamber.
Where could he have gone? PAYTON gazes off blankly. A RUMBLE of FLICKERING LIGHTS pass and the computer screens slowly fade, going black.
The power systems must be free-floating off blown circuits or something. The over-ride grid won't even lock in.
Whatta ya think?
I think we need to find a deck of cards and call the union. Distant THUMPS are heard overhead and they freeze... watching the ceiling with uncertainty.
Somebody... is up there.
Hmm. Ventilation... maybe. Systems keep re-booting after each surge. That could be anything. THUMPS fade as the ship eerily MOANS and CREAKS.
I say we get out of here. I'd rather be up and out then stuck in the trunk. The room is blocked by the two heavy steel doors on either end, security doors ten feet wide. PAYTON leads the way towards one end, gesturing towards the doors.
We're not far from the bridge but without the circuits locked in... I don't know how we could ever get this thing open. As they approach, their flashlight beams pan across the door to see jagged chips and scratches all along the edges. Tools are scattered on the floor, the control panel ripped open.
Jesus. Somebody was trying to get out.
Ironic. I think it was built to protect us.
 Well, he got out... some how. A RUMBLE approaches... another SHUDDER that FLICKERS the lights. They watch the ceiling as BOWER counts in his head as it fades.
Cycle is broken.
What?
It's not circuitry. Reactor timing is off-set in the core. Seems sporadic, but it's not. Each revolution decreasing before starting over from the beginning.
It's trying to reconnect, but it won't until it's reset.
How the hell do you know that?
I dunno. I can't remember my own- but I know everything there is to know about that damn reactor.
The training stuck.
And I know that... Another SHUDDER approaches.
That's twelve revolutions, before recycling. And this one will only last- As they watch the ceiling, their flashlight beams stop on a small ventilation shaft that's been ripped open. They exchange a look and...
Now if we only had a monkey and a rope. PAYTON climbs down as BOWER rotates his jaw with eagerness.
Our 2nd Lieutenant must have gone this way. Don't you think?
Must have.
It's the only way out.
I think we're better off... waiting here-
For what? If the mainframe is off-line-
We're not going to be able to get to the bridge or even be able to open that door from the other side-
But we can at least find out what's
Do you remember just how big this ship is, kid? We don't know where that will come out, if at all-
But, we can at least try to-
Can't do... Sir?
Listen, I have to take a handful of Doxitol just to get in the hyper-bunk.
You're... claustrophobic?
I can take a lot, that's not one of 'em.
You can guide me... over two-way. PAYTON eyes him over with reluctance.
You know there's something wrong. How long can we wait in here before we have to try something?
 How long did he wait? Silent stare as a SHUDDER passes, flickering the lights.
What if no one else is awake and there's no one at the wheel?
Just in case...  .there's mail you need to open quickly. BOWER tucks it into a zipper pocket and his photograph falls out. PAYTON watches as he tucks it back in and zips up.
Wife...?
Yeah... I think so.
Must be newlyweds. How can you forget something like that?
What do-you remember? Anything yet?
Some pieces.
And you're the cranky old bastard who made me take the aisle.
Give it some more time, pal.
How we doing?
Nothing yet. Christ, not a single vent opening or- Nothing. How about on your end?
Power surges keep coming across in longer increments, just like you said.
I'm gonna keep trying to get inside and run a dyno. Or at least try to get a pizza delivered.
Hey? BOWER quickly pushes himself forward reaching an intersection in the shaft.
Got an intersection here.
What are the choices? The light pans to endless shafts in each direction. He SNAPS a glow stick to life, letting it drop down the vertical shaft... silently into nothing.
A whole lot of the same... nothing.
If you're gonna take a turn let's keep track. That way you can get back if there's no way out.
Don't say that. BOWER lowers his head, breathing heavily.
If you haven't seen anything yet... maybe you should head back now. BOWER sets his jaw and suddenly spots a SPIDER, gently dropping down from a string of web. It lands and quickly scurries away.
 I'll be damned. BOWER collects himself, a tightened jaw of determination.
I'm taking a left. Make a note.
Left it is. BOWER turns the corner to follow the spider's path, the glow of the lamp slowly fading.
As he stares at the emblem, it seems memories are returning, a frown hardening on his face. Distant THUMPS snap him from his trance and he pans his flashlight towards the wall.
Payton!? Do you copy!? HEY!? Finally...
 I'm here. You alright? BOWER rubs the sweat from his eyes, anxiety increasing with his heavy breathing.
I dunno. I dunno if I can- I can't tell if I'm going in circles or- There's nothing to- Can't breath-
Easy, pal. Breath easy. Listen to me- BOWER squirms, pushing outward against the walls of the shaft with an increasing panic.
I just want... to stand up for God's sakes! Can't breath-
Calm down. Listen, you gave it a shot. Let's get you back here.
Back!? Are you kidding- I can't turn around! I can't even- Do you know how far I've gone!?
Take it easy- BOWER bangs the wall of the shaft with desperation.
I just want OUT of this FUCKING THING!
Bower? BOWER!? Stop it. Stop it! Just listen to me. Put it out of your head. Stop moving and breath. Listen to
I can't... breath!
Put your mind somewhere else-
Like WHERE!?
Well... this may not be the best time to tell you, but I got the door open.
WHAT!? Are you fucking kidding me!?
Yeah. I'm kidding you. BOWER lowers his head with exhaustion and a chuckle.
There ya go. Now just breath. Easy, pal. Easy. We'll get you through this. We'll figure this out together. Hear me? I do remember something.
What's that?
My dream. On the way out. Real doozy. There I was at the Rose Bowl game. Naked and everyone was drunk but me. Spent two years looking for clothes. Long fucking Rose Bowl game. BOWER chuckles, his breathing growing more steady.
Dream like that, sounds like you've got some... guilt issues.
Or just... clothing issues.
Two years?
Huh?
You said two years. You think we've been asleep for two years?
I do remember that being our duty rotation and... if we're team five that means we've been out for...
 That can't be right.
What can't be?
Why would I-leave her? I can't even remember saying good-bye. Why would I?
Well, you aren't here on default. This was a select pick. This flight was... different.
Different... how?
We're not just doing speed laps on the belt. This was something... special.
PAYTON gently rubs his hand across the emblem carved in the steel, brushing away the layer of dust as his finger tips TREMBLE. He pauses with a frown as a SHUDDER approaches...
BOWER looks up, shining the light down the shaft as the SHUDDER fades. He pauses to see small bolts protruding from the wall, small pieces of ripped fabric and smears of blood.
We were... heroes. We were-
Someone's been through here.
What? He pushes himself closer, squeezing between pipes for a closer look..
Someone's been... BOWER notices the droplets of sweat dripping off his chin are rolling forward across the shaft floor with a frown.
Wait a second-
What's wrong?
I'm... I'm at an angle! Shit!
BOWER panics as he begins to slide forward into a downward sloping shaft, clawing at the walls. The flashlight falls, rolling and sliding into the darkened abyss. He frantically tries to grip a pipe, but his hand slips, picking up speed.
No, no... N00000! He slides head first into a vertical drop, the shaft tightening like a funnel, crushing his lungs and SLAM! He crashes into a steel grate where his flashlight lays. It's a nightmarish head stand, his neck twisted with all his weight on top of himself, squirming with no where to squirm.
The flashlight falls through the grate and he watches in horror as the light drops, fading from sight, taking him into darkness.
Aaaaeirrrgh!
Bower!? What happened? Bower!? All he can hear is the muffled, panicked struggle. The RUMBLE of a power surge approaches.
Bower!? Answer me! BANG, BANG... BASH! He breaks the vent and kicks until he's able to push his legs through, into darkness, scrambling.
Bower...!? Through the static comes a HOWL of victory.
I'm... out! I'm- PAYTON breathes a heavy sigh of relief.
Jesus, don't scare me like that! Where are you?
I'm- I'm inside a boot locker!
A what!?
I'm inside a God damn- He shoves outward and the door SNAPS open. He falls out, flips through the air and SLAMS to the floor, an IMPACT on the radio sends...
Bower...? You alright? BOWER!?
Make that an overhead compartment. You with me, Payton? I got out. Hear me? He checks the transmitter, crackling with static.
Bower? Do you hear me? Bower...? Nothing but STATIC.
Payton? You there...? He cautiously ventures down the corridor as LIGHTS FLICKER past, getting a quick glimpse of just how incredibly far the corridors run. He steps up to an intersection of corridors, adjusting the frequency on his radio.
Payton? Can you hear me!? Dead static. He sighs, looking down each of the corridors, all appearing identical and endless.
Which way is which? I He examines the piping that runs along the ceiling, checking the direction of the valves and guesses, picking a direction. He walks to the edge of the next corridor and pauses with a frown. Glancing down the side corridor, fifty yards away, something is off. Within the symmetrical framing of steel, there is a rounded shape that is out of place. Be cautiously steps closer as the object takes the shape of... a MAN, standing at the edge of a doorway, head slightly cocked, peeking out.
Hey...!? BOWER freezes, caught in a silent stand-off, the MAN'S motionless stare is unsettling.
Hello...? A low RUMBLE approaches as LIGHTS FLICKER past to reveal... The MAN'S face, hauntingly contorted, swollen features. The MAN is dead, hanging from a cable around his neck, naked and gutted like an animal, his feet hanging an inch off the floor. His face is brutally beaten.
Jesus... Christ. Jesus- BOWER back pedals with fear and confusion as distant THUMPS make him quickly click off his light and he backs away, fading into the dark. His whisper fades.
Bower? You there?
Something is just beyond the wall, trying to get in. PAYTON back pedals, searching for any form of a weapon. He SNAPS the handle off a storage bin, wielding it like a baseball bat as he slowly back pedals to the control desk. He continues his search across the radio channels, keeping his eyes toward the corner as... his FINGERS on the switch seem to be TREMBLING with more intensity.
Bower? Can you hear me?
As he moves across the massive room, the neatly lined rows gradually become more dishevelled, chairs knocked over and unknown liquid dripping from the tables. Garbage litters the floor, a dim glow of light emerging from the galley. He crawls along the edge of the counter and peeks inside the galley, horribly ran-sacked. In the midst of the wreckage, a darkened FIGURE is seen scavenging through the cupboards, angrily tossing empty containers aside. The FIGURE pauses, sensing a presence and glances back as... BOWER ducks. He contemplates, pulling out the envelope opener and slowly peeks back out and... POW! He's HIT in the face, blood spraying, slamming onto his back. The pen-lamp and envelope opener spin across the floor. BOWER tries to get up and he's grabbed by the hair, a blade pressed against his neck.
Keine Bewegung!
What-!? He tries to look up and... CRACK! Instant swelling over his eye from a hit. She kicks the envelope opener away.
Don't you move MOTHER FUCKER! She quickly pats him down, stealing tools. All he can see is her bare feet, blackened from oil. He frowns to see her toe- nails painted with bright pink polish. NADIA, a torn jump suit, snarled hair hiding her face, skin smeared with oil. A beautiful woman underneath an apocalyptic smear of grunge. Her hair is pure white, high- lighted with smears of oil.
Wait- I'm part of the crew! I'm-
CRACK! A hit silences him and the forceful frisk continues. She pauses to see Evalon's photograph, throwing it aside. He grabs the photo and she shoves the blade deeper into his neck.
I won't! Please! Just listen- I'm not-
Take them off!
What!?
SHOES! I'll gut your ass-
Alright, alright! Take it easy! He begins to remove his shoes and the radio on his belt suddenly CRACKLES with activity.
Bower? You there-? BOWER lunges and they go into a violent spin, crashing over a table. Dishes clatter, gasps and grunts... only glimpses of the fight through the flicker of light. CRACK! BOWER'S hit, sent flying and he looks up to see her silhouette approaching, edged weapon in her hand.
Stop! Stop it! Listen to me! Hold it! she attacks and he frantically throws dishes and chairs to fend her off. She throws the blade, the blunt end deflecting off his forearm.
You crazy fucking bitch- He wields the only weapon he can find... his shoe. And her attack abruptly halts, slowly back pedalling with fright. BOWER is confused, realizing her eyes are looking past him. A BLUISH GLOW seeps in from the doorway, approaching from the corridor. He looks back to see NADIA is running for the kitchen... gone.
He ducks below the tables as a FIGURE slowly enters the room, carrying a long steel spear-like device with a splinter of blinding BLUE FIRE on the tip, fueled with a chemical sprayer like a welder's torch. His obstructed view reveals the FIGURE as a tribal warrior, scantily clad, elongated muscular frames, pale skin coated in hydraulic fluid. Bald head with clumps of tangled hair. It moves smoothly and silently, jabbing the tip of the flaming device into each corner and crevasse, as if flushing out anything hidden.
 What the hell is- The FIGURE quickly spins his direction and SNAPS a lever on the spear-device, killing the blue flame and taking us instantly into darkness. BOWER holds his breath with fright, back pedalling on his knees as his eyes try to adjust to the dark. He takes an uneasy breath to realize... there is more then one. Slowly moving out of the shadows, four more HUNTERS slowly emerge, like a unified pack on the prowl. They carry an assortment of crudely made weapons, spears and blades of sharpened metal. The apparent leader of the pack is HEFLIN, the largest and strongest of the group and he directs the pack with an assortment of odd vocal sounds, deep HISSES from the throat and gargled CACKLES. On command, the one HUNTER flips a lever and the BLUE FLAME crackles back to life with a burst of flammable liquid. The hunt continues, the pack weaving through the debris, following NADIA'S path. As the BLUISH GLOW fades, BOWER is left bewildered and terrified. Suddenly, his radio sounds...
Is that you!? Bower-- BOWER frantically flips it off as one of the HUNTERS suddenly turns back.
On closer examination, WEASEL is coated with war paint and decorative scars marking his skin.
The only clear view is off an overturned bowl that shows WEASEL'S face, oddly contorted in the rounded reflection. WEASEL is headed directly for BOWER until.., a HISS from HEFLIN calls him back. WEASEL takes one last look before turning back, the torch fades from view, taking us into black. We hear... BOWER'S breath, heightened gasps of fear as he begins to crawl away.
 .with that marking, she's got to be part of the passenger manifest. Possibly a glitch in the LFS support system, a breakdown in the main grid must have woken passengers, instead of the flight crew.
But, why would she try to kill me!? She was going to slit my throat! And why would they look like that?
Look like what?
You should have seen these guys. They were... a very fucked up looking gang. Why the hell would they be-- Payton, they were hunting. BOWER gives himself a shiver as he fearfully checks over his shoulder, eyes shifting with fear.
Hunting!?
They sure-as-shit weren't a welcoming party from the Promenade deck! These guys were... looking to do some damage.
Take it easy-
We've got to try to contact the bridge.
You're assuming there is someone on the bridge.
You're not!? We're not the only ones awake. Team Four wouldn't go back to sleep without waking us for rotation. Maybe they're on the main deck?
If they're in there... why haven't they thrown the security hammer into lock down? Seal and freeze it until the emergency units wake?
Maybe they can't. With the systems kicking on and off- Maybe they're flying blind, with no control of the LFS? PAYTON eyes the scattered tools across the floor and the ripped open ventilation shaft.
Either way we can't assume help will be coming. On-board or off. Out here, there is no rescue. There is no turning around. This thing wasn't even built... .to return. He pauses off the involuntary memory relapse, looking to the I computer screens, taking in the thought.
What are you talking about? PAYTON glances across the control console, nodding with more memories returning.
This is no regular transport. We're not out collecting data off the belt or hauling cargo... we are the cargo. It was a single launch trajectory for... That's as far as his memory allows, his words trailing off.
.Tanis. Planetary processing and population. We're a settler's vessel.
Another place, another time, BOWER leans closer on a bed, watching EVALON sleep. There is a a deep love in his eyes.
 How could I have... left her? Why would I have done that? I loved her... BOWER snaps out of his trance.
Payton!? Where is your wife?
What?
We didn't leave them behind. No one did. They're on this flight! Remember the recruitment.
The fucking breeding tests- The wives, the husbands- The- She's on this God damn flight!
They're here. Somewhere on board.
I've got to find her... before those fucking animals do! I've got to- BOWER ransacks the compartments, tossing aside items.
Try to think of where they would be? A sleeping compartment for non-service
Hold it, hold it! Think about this for a
What's there to think about!? I remember! There was thousands of passengers that weren't part of the development team. Families that-
No, listen to me! LISTEN! You know how big this ship is and there's no way of knowing exactly where- If you go on some wild goose chase to try to find her-
And then we would be no closer to getting out of this situation with even less time to regain control of the ship. BOWER stews, wanting to retort, his mind is racing.
Our job is to obtain control of this ship. Once we've taken control of the systems, finding them would be easy. Are you hearing me? We save the ship... we can save them all.
But... how do we- I r PAYTON Where are you?
 I dunno. Officer's quarters, somewhere above D-level, I think- I don't-
I can guide you. Find out where you are. Hatch marker. Over the door. His flashlight finds one of the hatch doors and he climbs up the slanted wall to read the marker.
Take it. Climbing up the angled furnishings, he searches for any available weapon. He notices a mantel that displays several antique astrological and navigation devices. He spots an antique pistol. He breaks the glass, grabbing the gun, but it crumbles under his grip, falling to pieces. He sighs, but pauses to see... because the furniture is angled, his light spots a hiding spot underneath the desk. He pulls out a silver flask, bone dry. He reaches further, pulling out an unusually shaped weapon, much like a sawed-off shotgun with rounded edges. He snaps open the hand-crank I lever and gives a forceful whirl. A slow MOAN of magnetos causes the weapon's lights to dimly come to life.
He climbs upward to an open hatch in the ceiling as we...
In the foreground, there is a small fish tank, completely dry with a tiny fish skeleton laying on the bottom.
Alright. I'll lay out a path for you and see if we can by-pass the main security doors.
Guide me to where?
Back toward the flight decks. Back to me.
I'm not coming back to you. What good would that do? I can't open that door from the other side--
What chance have you got out there on your own? We'll figure out a way to breach the command bridge- A power surge sends a SHUDDER and FLICKERING LIGHTS past...
Bower...?
Listen... if you can get me to the reactor bay. I can... reset the reactor's cycle.
You know how to do that?
Okay. Hold up. I don't want you to go too far down that lane. Just catch your
I don't know vet. Hold on- BOWER backs to the wall, nervously scanning the corridor, struggling for breath. In the background a SHADOW moves at the end of the corridor.
 Eden.
What did you say?
The Eden. PAYTON nods, memories returning as he mumbles the name.
Of all things to remember, why would you pick that?
I'm just thinking, maybe there's something we haven't considered. Eden failed... because of ODS syndrome. The one officer who was suffering from Pandorum. Cabin Fever. Maybe there was something similar with one of the earlier
No, no, no. You're talking about- Eden was lost because of a mechanical failure,
That was the report... but don't you remember the story of the one flight officer... the real story? They say he went lunar, launched the entire ship, five thousand people killed with the flip of a switch. All from a bad case of cabin fever-?
spook story, along with a million others. Eden was mechanical failure, not human error. A. glitch... that was remedied way before we ever-
And why did they switch the rotation shifts from three years to two? And they eliminated the manual over-ride-
They did that for obvious reasons, not because of Eden. BOWER pauses... within reach of the window only to realize it was an illusion. A glass compartment door left slightly ajar was reflecting a circular light panel, smeared with oil to give the illusion of craters. His shoulders drop in defeat.
Well, at least we didn't wake up... floating away in a coffin.
 Who says we didn't? BOWER climbs down, peering out into the corridor.
Something happened to the other team? Maybe there was... Pandorum. BOWER looks to his own hand, cradling the weapon... his FINGERS gently TREMBLING. He makes a fist and shakes his hand, firmly grabbing the weapon.
Which way?
Left at the third marker. Two more levels down and we're there.
BOWER heads down the corridor, making a turn as...
A shadowed FIGURE steps into view, slowly following his path into darkness.
This can't be right-
What's wrong?
Have I done a circle or am I doubling back?
Why do you say that?
I've seen this before. This- We follow his flashlight to reveal... a BODY tangled in a wire snare. It appears to be the same dead body he witnessed before, but as he steps closer, it's different. This body has ripped clothing and isn't gutted. It's... SHEPARD, a thin-framed man in a torn crew uniform, tangled in a wire snare wrapped tightly under his arm and around his neck.
a different one. There's booby-traps, rigged to the- SHEPARD'S eyes POP open wide with a terrified expression, completely silent until BOWER sees him. BOWER jumps with fright and SHEPARD wildly squirms, SCREAMING bloody-murder.
Stop it! Jesus, I'm not gonna- SHUT-UP!
Bower, you sure that's a good idea? He
SNAP! The wire snare snaps free and SHEPARD goes to the floor gasping. BOWER kneels over him to help, but SHEPARD erupts with a shriek, like a hyper-sensitive rape victim.
Watch yourself! BOWER hesitates, the flashlight reveals SHEPARD'S identification tattoo through the ripped uniform and blood- soaked bandages. It reads; FLT//006//017
He's... team six. The unit that's suppose to follow us. He's-
As BOWER tries to wipe away blood, SHEPARD erupts again, trying to scamper away from his touch.
Quiet! I'm not gonna hurt you! SHEPA.RD begins to moan, mumbling and weeping as he rubs circulation back into his limbs with nervous laughter.
Hey? You with me? You're gonna be alright. Hear me? Squinting past the glare of the flashlight, SHEPARD notices BOWER'S clean uniform and the radio boom on his chin. He begins to weep, tears of joy and agony.
Shepard, Thomas L. Team Six. Sector Eight. I think I'm the only one, sir. I knew it. I knew you'd be coming.
Huh?
Where's the rest of your squad?
Squad? My Lieutenant and I were the-
Where's the shuttle?
Shuttle? What are you talking about? SHEPARD'S expression drops.
Aren't you the... retraction team? The
No, no. Hold on. I'm from this crew. I'm from Team Five. SHEPARD'S face goes pale, eyes going hollow. His demeanor slowly begins to shift.
You... just woke up?
six... maybe eight hours ago. I had to crawl all the way from the upper deck
SHEPARD seems bitterly impatient as he quickly begins gathering his tool's off the floor. His eyes watch the end of the corridor, now he's in a hurry.
So... you don't have a fucking clue to what's happened? Is that it?
That's what we're trying to figure out! Tell me- what happened!?
 You know as much as I do.
I don't know anything.
You'll fit right in. i SHEPARD feels along the pipes until he finds one leaking oil. He vigorously begins to rub the oil onto his body.
What are you doing?
Get the scent off.
What ! ? SHEPARD rubs oil across his neck and then goes to check the corner, wrapping a strap around his fist to secure a screwdriver into his hand.
I can't help you. I'm sorry.
Help.me? Wait a second-
They go off scent and sound as far as I can tell and they're a lot fucking stronger and faster they you'd think.
When they come... run. Don't look back, no matter what.
They- Who the hell are they!?
I can't wait for you. BOWER is bewildered as SHEPARD poised like a sprinter, preparing to run.
Bower, you tell this asshole the chain of command and a direct order to-
God dammit, WAIT! You're still an officer of this ship and at present time, your CO is ordering you to-
BOWER shoves him against the wall with force. Their struggle i freezes as distant THUDS are heard down the corridor. They both look to see... the GLOW of BLUE TORCFE'S growing. SHEPARD begins to tremble, backing away. BOWER sets his jaw, stepping out into the corridor and slowly cranks the power- lever... with a WHINE of magnetos, raising the weapon.
Fear over comes BOWER.
Payton...?
Get the hell out of there.
BOWER turns and runs, trying to follow SHEPARD as SHADOWED HUNTERS move past the end of the corridor.
I BOWER raises the gun towards the back of the lead hunter, only fifteen feet away. He pulls the trigger and rusted metal SCREECHES! Jammed.
He panics, grabbing the gun with both hands, checking for a safety switch and... KA-WHAP! The weapon discharges a tremendous BLAST of energy off to the side. -The weapon is designed to destroy biological and organic material, but for safety precautions, it's unable to penetrate man-made materials like lead, glass or steel. It's unable to puncture the ship's hull. The energy blast is an electrical discharge that CRACKS like lightening and echoes like thunder. The blast HITS the side of the wall with a deafening RIPPLE of aftershocks, shattering anything fragile and knocking over anything not fastened down within a thirty foot radius. This little thing packs a punch. The HUNTERS turn towards BOWER, the lead hunter turning to reveal itself as... } HEFLIN, a muscular-frame larger then the rest, skin glistening with a layer of hydraulic fluid along with tribal I scars and distorted war paint. His eyes hidden under shadow. He slowly lifts his shoulders while lowering his head, much like the fluid motions of a reptilian predator. BOWER frantically cranks the energy lever and raises it toward HEFLIN, completely unaffected by the threat. He squeezes the trigger and... KA-WHAP! The gunshot is THUNDEROUS, HITTING the unseen glass divider between them. The safety glass absorbs the blast, sending a SHUDDER through the hull. HEFLIN barely flinches, stepping closer with a HISS. Off his command, the HUNTERS take chase, swarming in every direction, searching for a route around the glass divider. BOWER runs for his life.
Bower!? BOWER!? Answer me God Dammit! All that is heard is GARGLED STATIC and PANICKED BREATHING.
They got him! They fucking ripped him apart! They're-
Don't look back! Hear me? Just go! GO! BOWER finds an open corridor and sprints as... Blades SCRAPE across metal, Blue.torches ROAR, HISSES echo. BOWER gasps heavily, hyper-ventilating as he catches glimpses of HUNTERS on his trail and running parallel in adjacent corridors, closing in with unnatural agility and speed.
Aaaargh! Footsteps are heard approaching overhead. On the floor below him are his weapon and flashlight. He stretches for the gun... too far from his reach. The flashlight is "on", illuminating the area. He pushes off the wall and reaches for it... fingers touching, but unable to grab it. The GLOW of torches grows in the loading shaft and BOWER pushes off, reaching for the flashlight. Unable to retrieve it, instead he pushes it... into the open loading shaft. It drops all the way to the bottom as...
HUNTERS step up to the edge of the shaft, looking down to see the flashlight fall from sight...
BOWER swings back, grabs the wall and freezes.
The HUNTERS hear the flashlight HIT the bottom of the shaft and then slowly double back. Torches fading.
The cable is violently tugged from above, jerking BOWER upward, pulling him away from the wall. He spins wildly trying to grab back onto the wall as...
The cable yanks BOWER upwards with enough force to hit the ceiling and swing toward the open shaft. His fingers claw at the wall as he's literally being reeled in like a fish. He sees the FIGURE charging with a bladed spear. He's knows he's done for and...
SNAP! The wire is slashed, BOWER breaks free hitting the floor as the cable is jerked up and out of sight.
The silhouettes of the HUNTERS on the ledge, several levels above, inspect the loose cable and after a HISS, they turn back, fading into the shadows. BOWER lays on his back, squirming in the tangled wire as the FIGURE hovers over him, spinning a bladed weapon in his hand.
Please... don't- Please, listen- The FIGURE slashes BOWER'S sleeve, rips away the fabric and looks at his identification tattoo. BOWER quits squirming as the FIGURE leans closer into the light with a curious frown. TANAKA, a Japanese man in ripped and modified clothing. Unlike the awkward gauntness of the HUNTERS, he has a full- framed, hard-edged physique and soft brown eyes.
Japanese- No Subtitles
What...?
Japanese- No Subtitles
I don't understand. I- I don't speak- TANAKA jabs a finger into the emblems on BOWER'S uniform.
Japanese - No Subtitles
I'm sorry. I don't- Do you... speak English?
Japanese- No Subtitles They share a nod and an awkward silence, BOWER still eyeing the razor sharp weapon in his hand and not wanting to move.
Thanks. Thanks for... that. TANAKA is dead pan. BOWER flinches as TANAKA picks up the energy gun and then... flips it over, handing it back to him. BOWER cautiously accepts as he climbs to his feet.
Japanese- No Subtitles
I'm sorry. I don't...
Japanese- No Subtitles
I don't know what you- TANAKA jabs the emblem on his uniform and presents his own
 Japanese - No Subtitles.
You're with... agriculture!? Jesus... Listen, I'm not- TANAKA jabs the emblem on BOWER'S chest, taps his tattoo.
Yes! I know! I'm with the flight crew! But, I don't know what's happened! I
Another jab.
Listen, I'm going to find out what went wrong... with the ship.
Shee-ip?
Yes, I'm going to the reactor to try to-
Ree-actoh?
Right. It doesn't really matter- You should stay put. Or go back to your compartment sector- Wait for the security systems to engage. Okay? We're gonna take care of this problem. Dead pan.
Okay? BOWER slowly backs away and TANAKA follows. BOWER stops, I eyeing his numerous bladed weapons.
No. Listen, you should stay. Wait here... for the systems to- Alright? Stay! TANAKA frowns as BOWER backs away, gesturing. BOWER reaches the next intersection and looks back. TANAKA is gone. He continues down the corridor as LIGHTS FLICKER past.
He.lowers his head and slowly... the "SOUNDS" return.
Like a dripping faucet of annoyance, PAYTON bitterly turns his flashlight quickly towards the corner. Wielding the heavy pipe, he cautiously approaches.
His flashlight pans up the wall to the ventilation shaft.
Dower...? That can't be... you- The SOUNDS remain muffled, deeper within the wall, possibly from inside the ventilation shaft. PAYTON contemplates, eyes panicked. He climbs up the wall and wedges the panel cover over the shaft opening, jamming it closed with a screwdriver. He backs away, gripping the weapon, ready for anything. He tries to control his breathing as he sits... watches... and waits.
A blood droplet hits the floor by his feet and PAYTON wipes blood off his nose with confusion and a nervous frown.
POW! A FIGURE lunges out, a direct HIT under his jaw sends him backwards over a table. The FIGURE jumps on top of him, jabbing a blade toward his neck. He grabs the wrist just as the tip begins to dig into his throat.
A quick struggle ensues and just as BOWER is about to be sliced open... CRACK! The ATTACKER is HIT and sent flying. TANAKA has come to his rescue, twirling a pipe across his palms. The ATTACKER rolls to her feet to reveal... NADIA. She snatches a pool ball off the table and throws it directly into TANAKA'S chest.
She rolls across the floor, grabbing her knife and... BOWER BLINDS her with his flashlight, raising the gun with a quick whirl of the energy lever, laser sights flaring brightly.
BOWER ducks as a broken bottle WHIZZES past his face, smashing against the wall. He raises the gun and... KA-RAAAACK! A deliberate warning shot goes past NADIA and HITS the bar, SHATTERING every piece of glass that's near by and NADIA and TANAKA are both blown off their feet.
Knock it off! Both of ya! TANAKA and NADIA slowly recover, both quickly try to find their weapons on the floor.
Listen... nobody needs to get hurt here. Both of you just... cool out. And stop throwing that shit. Her eyes dart with uneasiness as she finds her knife.
Let's all just... go easy here. I understand it's been every man for himself around here lately, but if we're going to get out of this- A little God damn solidarity wouldn't hurt.
We can work together here. We all want the same thing... right? NADIA remains poised, ready to fight, knife raised. Sighing with defeat, BOWER gestures, hands raised as he motions for TANAKA and they slowly back towards the door.
 Thanks... again. TANAKA motions toward the emblem on his uniform and gestures to himself.
Yeah, yeah. I get it. We can work together on this, right? TANAKA grins.
As long as we understand each other. They head out of the room as... NADIA watches from the shadows with a curious frown.
Yeah... well no sympathy here. She left me with a few sore spots too, pal. They both go to work, attempting to wedge the door open with pipes. BOWER looks back to see... NADIA. They back pedal with weapons in hand and NADIA is unaffected, watching them with a frown.
Listen, lady. We don't want any-
Huh?
You're... part of the flight crew?
Yeah. I'm... a corporal, I'm-
I didn't think there was any flight crew left. What's happened to us?
That's what I'm trying to figure out. Malfunction of some sort-
Gee, you think? Where are you going?
I'm heading for the reactor bay.
You just wake up?
Just joining the program already in progress, yeah. She eyes him over and TANAKA keeps the pipe raised.
You'll never make it.
Oh yeah? And why is that?
You're going the wrong direction. She grimaces and turns, heading back up the corridor. BOWER and TANAKA exchange a look. BOWER chases after her.
Hey? Wait a second- HEY?
SSSSH! Keep it down-
Hold on. Who are you?
Nobody.
Wait- Can't join the team without a name.
Team? Why would I want to join?
Because I need you to show me the way.
To the reactor? No thanks. Don't like going that fax down. No one ever comes back. She continues up the corridor and BOWER grabs her arm. She yanks away from his touch, squaring off, weapon in hand.
Hold on. Please- There's not much time left before we lose everything onboard. You understand what I'm trying to-
Do you know where this ship is headed?
I'm working on it.
Can you fly it?
Huh?
Can you fly it... if you have to?
I'll get you as close to it as I can. But, I won't wait for you.
Japanese- No Subtitles.
My thoughts exactly.
You know where you're going? This doesn't... "feel" right.
Don't know. There's no way to tell time in here. Two... maybe three months.
His voice echoes across the cavernous atrium and she glares-
Quiet! You wanna get us killed!?
Longer. I wasn't the first one up.
Their flashlight beams continue across the enormous room like two small searchlights. She leads them down into a side shaft, their lights fade from view.
Where are we going? What are we doing-
i Shush! We're waiting.
Waiting for what-?
Quiet! At the far end of the corridor, a faint BLUISH GLOW grows stronger. Shadows are moving, growing closer.
NADIA gestures for them to stay put. TANAKA wants to leave, but BOWER grabs his shoulder. They both grip weapons, glancing to NADIA as the HUNTERS seem to be headed their way.
Ssssht! The HISS and CACKLES of the HUNTERS grow closer and it seems they're shortly going to be cornered and done for until... A SHUDDER is felt, a FLICKER of LIGHTS approaching. She goes to a control panel, holds down a switch and presses her palm F across a scanner. As the power SURGE passes, the control panel activates, scanning her hand and the steel door activates with a MOAN of hydraulics. BOWER notices her ID tattoo; BIO-T>>218>>076.
The SHUDDER passes, killing the power and the door stops... open only a half foot. She squeezes through and BOWER and TANAKA quickly follow. They help her push it shut, sealing the lock with a CLANK.
Who are they? What the hell are those things?
 Never quite felt like sticking around to find out. Running... is always the best option. Believe me.
They're not- They can't be from this ship. They don't seem... human. Do you think something got on board or maybe I something... He turns to follow her and pauses to see... The BIO-VAULT. A large lab storage compartment that has been "lived-in" for a long time. A bed has been created from assorted chair cushions and there is a collection of scavenged items. NADIA adds to the items, dumping the belongings of her bag onto the floor. BOWER is in awe as he approaches an entire wall of glass test tubes, a maze of micro-biological containers, glimmering with condensation.
What is... all this?
Ecological Development, Embryonic Charter. Livestock and wildlife re- population. The rows of glass tubes are labelled, ranging from mountain goats to octopi, everything a new world would need.
NADIA checks a few gauges on the wall of tubes and makes adjustments on the monitoring system. He senses her meticulous care for the material.
You've been living in here? You're... protecting it?
It' seems to be the only living thing left on this ship worth protecting. Regardless of the situation, we still have a mission. We've only lost about thirty percent of the specimens, mostly reptilian class. Never was big into snakes anyway. BOWER doesn't share the attempt at humor, wandering towards a darkened digital screen on the wall, displaying a charted graph of the new planet, TANIS.
 Tanis.
 You couldn't remember?
No, I- I didn't remember just how far away it is... until now. This was a hundred and twenty-three year flight. NADIA begins to gather a few items shoving them into a bag. TANAKKA leans closer to the glass display with fascination, tapping the tubes to see movement inside.
How could I have forgotten that?
It comes only in pieces. Even after a few months. I know everything about this vault and its systems... but I still can't remember where I grew up. Or my brother's name. Only pieces... And the training comes back first. For good reason, I guess. BOWER eyes the darkened computer terminals, portions of the consoles coated in algae.
How could we have become like this... in only eight years? NADIA ponders the thought, rotating her jaw. She digs into her supplies and tosses him a small block of orange material.
What is this?
Dehydrated meatloaf. House special. I save 'em for the weekends. BOWER sniffs it with a sneer and tries to break off a piece... hard as a rock.
Do you know how long it would take to turn dehydrated meatloaf into that?
How long?
I don't know, but it takes more then a couple years to turn coal into fucking diamonds.
You think we've over slept?
This ship was built to outlast our children's children... and any engineer could tell ya the warranty is running out. I think we've been asleep longer then you may think. BOWER tosses the orange brick. to TANAKA and he sniffs it with a grin, breaking off a piece. NADIA finishes gathering tools and she slings the bag over her shoulder, "ready to go".
Do you have a radio?
 Who the hell is there to call?
I'm not the only flight crew officer awake. We're not in this alone.
You want in? Come and get it you fu- The screwdriver SNAPS and the panel hits the floor. PAYTON raises the pipe, preparing to fight and... A desperate gasp is heard from inside the shaft.
Help... me! PAYTON pauses, angling the light inside to see... GALLO, a young flight officer, boyish innocence, short-cropped hair, heavily coated in sweat, desperation in his eyes. His hair is dark brown, the only person without pure white hair.
Who the hell... are you!? GALLO is tightly wedged inside the shaft, squirming to crawl out, trembling with fear and exhaustion.
Help me- I'm part- of the flight crew! I'm- Please- HELP ME! PAYTON oddly hesitates... before lowering the weapon. He digs into the shaft grabbing GALLO'S hand, pulling him out. GALLO collapses onto the floor, crumbling into a fetal position, naked. His hands are locked in claw-like grips, trembling uncontrollably. His gasps are rapid and unsteady.
Easy... Easy. You're all right. PAYTON runs to grab a towel and water. As he turns back he notices GALLO'S hip and legs are sprayed with dried blood. PAYTON kneels over him and GALLO spasms from his touch.
EASY! I'm here to help you! PAYTON lifts the bottle to his lips, but the water runs down his face, GALLO is frozen in shock.
Com'on. Try to drink a little. Here. GALLO is unresponsive, wide eyes locked in a trance.
What's your name? Huh? Can you hear me?
What's that? Gallo...? PAYTON frowns, mumbling the name with a hint of recognition.
Corporal... Gallo?
Where did you come from, Gallo?
The... bridge. Saying the words seems to send him into a terrified trance.
The bridge!? Where are we? What's happened? Can you tell me-
The more PAYTON inquires, the more GALLO begins to unravel, emotionally. His eyes widen with terror, breath quickening.
Corporal?
Tell me... what happened? GALLO is hyper-ventilating, eyes wide with terror. A droplet of blood slowly builds in his nostril, refusing to drip. A low whine is heard in his throat as... LIGHTS FLICKER past.
We can't get through this way.
I'd prefer to stay on foot.
It's the safest way to travel. And there's only one other way to get through that I know of.
And what is that?
Where are we?
Main corridor. Hyper-sleep chamber, Personnel. Keep your light down.
She leads the way along the wall and into a compartment of unimaginable size, fifty foot high steel walls that channel through the room. The walls are lined with hundreds of sleep chambers, stacked ten high on either side. They round a corner into the main atrium to see dishevelled equipment and smashed control consoles, scarred from battle. Old blood stains are worn deeply into the floor.
Jesus... As they venture deeper inside they see numerous sleep- chambers, open hatches and empty. The further they move along the wall, more and more empty pods, too many to count.
My God. They're... empty. They're all- Where the hell is everyone?
Keep quiet.
Wait a second. My wife-
Keep moving.
No, wait. My wife could be in here. BOWER'S focus completely shifts, turning towards the pods, reading name plates.
What does she do? What's her specialty?
She's not part of the crew, but spouses were brought with. I remember there were-
Then she's not in here. This is development settlers. Engineers. NADIA quickly continues as BOWER tries to keep up.
Do you know where the family members are-
I don't see what he's looking at, do you?
We have to keep moving. We don't want to stay out in the open for too long. Especially in here.
We can't stay herel NADIA heads across the main floor and BOWER tries to wave him on, but TANAKA is locked onto something, refusing to waver.
Let's get out of here! Com'on- The THUMPS grow louder and TANAKA heads into the shadows. BOWER hesitates, turning to follow NADIA through a barricade of dishevelled equipment, leaving TANAKA behind.
We can't just leave him. We have to wait-
Then you wait... and find your own way.
We can't split up the team, it's all
I told you I'm not going to wait. I'm not gonna get myself killed for-
The guy saved my life twice already. I'm not gonna leave him-
What do you think he's doing in there!?
How the hell should I know-
He's hunting! Bagging the next notch on his belt. You wait for him! Good luck. I NADIA quickly heads deeper into the room and down a darkened and narrowing tunnel. BOWER hesitates with frustration. Having to choose, he turns and chases after NADIA. I They crawl through a maze of machinery and NADIA'S pace is difficult for BOWER to keep up.
Wait! I'm coming- There's a CRUNCH under his foot. He lowers his light, picking up a small white object. He brings it closer to the light to realize it's... A HUMAN FINGER BONE.
Jesus! NADIA turns toward him to see...
Behind BOWER is a massive stack of human skeletons and carcasses. They've just crawled into a pit of human remains. They both back away with horror only to see a mountain of carcasses on both sides. The only route is upward and they begin to crawl up the slope on their bellies, over dead remains.
NADIA grabs his arm as bones snap and they slide helplessly to the bottom within a landslide of bones and flesh. The finally slide to a stop at the bottom of the slope and BOWER quickly raises his weapon towards the rafters to see... the HUNTER is gone.
THWACK! TANAKA lunges out of the shadows, delivering a blow with his bladed pipe into the HUNTER'S face. It's a hit that would normally kill anything, nearly taking its head off. The HUNTER stumbles, staggers and... HIIIISSSSSST! It HITS TANAKA, sending him airborne, nearly knocking him out. Under the FLICKERING LIGHT, BOWER, NADIA and TANAKA all attack the lone HUNTER, taking all three of them to bring it to the floor. They viciously pound it with pipes and blades until it finally stops flinching beneath them. Its pale white skin seeps a thick black colored blood. The three of them back away, gasping and coated in its blood.
What the... what the hell is it!? The HUNTER flinches and our gang back pedals with fright. NADIA continues back pedalling, looking towards the rafters to see... HEFLIN silhouetted, leering towards them.
BOWER quickly finds his weapon on the floor and HEFLIN slowly begins to TAP his spear against the wall, echoing a continual clank through the hull.
What is he... doing? BOWER, NADIA and TANAKA quickly realize the effect as shadows begin to move.., the room is filling with HUNTERS, alerted by the tapping of metal.
Run.
They're... everywhere-
Run!
A low gargled HISS is heard from HEFLIN'S throat. NADIA is already gone. BOWER and TANAKA chase after her as the walls come to life, HUNTERS swarming onto their path like a pack of wild dogs. Before diving through the barricade, BOWER looks back to see HEFLIN and his pack have paused... to eat the fallen HUNTER.
In a frenzied panic, BOWER dives into the chamber with NADIA, tugging the hatch closed.
What the hell happened to them!? What the hell are those things!?
Shut-up! They listen for a long moment... hearing nothing as BOWER looks at his hand, finger tips trembling.
Japanese - No subtitles.
I second that. Let's get the fuck out of here. Which way did we come from?
You want to go back?
No, I mean... let's just go!
We should go back. Find a different path. I don't think we can get through to the reactor bay from-
You said there was no other path.
I'm ready to explore other options-
Which way did they go-?
You really want to discuss it here!? A RUMBLE is heard approaching and they all crouch in unison. It's a power surge that sends FLICKERING LIGHTS across the massive corridor and a BLINKING LIGHT is activated on a nearby sleep-chamber. And then... BANG! The hatch door is KICKED from the inside, white gas erupting from the seam. Our gang quickly crawls toward the shadows, crouching behind equipment to watch as... Another KICK bursts open the hatch and a BIG PASSENGER crawls out, slamming onto the floor with a shiver of agony, gasping for breath, muscles twitching.
The BIG PASSENGER tries to get to his feet, gasping and heaving, mumbling in Russian. BOWER tries to stand but NADIA pulls him back.
What are you doing-!?
They'll hear him- They'll- We've got to
Footsteps thunder across the floor and... WHACK! The BIG PASSENGER is STRUCK by a single blow from HEFLIN. The HUNTERS have returned in full force and they come out of the shadows from every direction, bladed weapons spinning. BOWER pulls away from NADIA'S grip and prepares to intervene, but TANAKA suddenly grabs him, holding him back with force. With the BIG PASSENGER wounded and moaning on the floor, the HUNTERS gather in a circle in ceremonial fashion, praying thanks for the feast the ship has presented. They watch helplessly as the BIG PASSENGER is then brutally attacked and eaten alive. WEASEL leads other HUNTERS under the flickering light in a demented and twisted celebratory dance, a frenzy of pure evil. This attack is heard more then it is seen, under flickering lights, obscured view and most of the camera angles on Bower and the groups reactions. Frozen in horror, BOWER is tugged by TANAKA, following NADIA to the corner where she's lifted a grate in the floor. They climb into a shaft under the floor and into the dark as... The SCREAMS and HISSES echo through the hull.
Bower? Do you copy? You out there? Dead static. He sighs and glances toward GALLO, passed out on a nearby bunk. He hesitates, holding the pipe as a weapon, tucking it away and cautiously approached GALLO for a closer inspection.
He feels his neck for a pulse. He notices the dried blood under his nose then gently pulls aside the blanket to see GALLO'S identification tattoo, reading; FLT>>004>>012.
 Team Four. Flight Team... Four? He glances up to see GALLO is now awake, staring at him.
What are you doing?
Just... checking you. GALLO narrows his eyes, pulling the blanket tighter.
For what?
To make sure you're... alright. You... passed out. You-
Who the hell are you?
Payton... Lieutenant Payton.
Lieutenant? You're... a lieutenant?
That's right. You're Team Four? You're suppose to be... my predecessor. GALLO deepens his frown, glancing around with disorientation.
You said... you came from the bridge? GALLO shifts his eyes back on him, a bad topic.
Where are we? I can't get guidance off this system and I have no idea where-
I don't know.
Well, what did you see? How did--
Listen, I'm not a navigator. Stars all look alike. I don't know! How the hell would I know!? Sensing GALLO is about to break down again, PAYTON tries a calmer approach.
Easy. I just want to make sure... GALLO'S hands are trembling, uncontrollably.
.you're okay- GALLO tucks his shaking hands under the blanket, defensively.
I'm fine. PAYTON lowers his stare, hesitating, glancing across the dried blood still splattered across his legs.
Is this your blood... Corporal?
Some of it is... sir.
Whose blood is it? GALLOholds his stare, jaw muscles tightening.
They didn't give me any choice.
Who didn't?
There was something wrong with them.
i Something was wrong with who?
Off his stare, he understands the implication.
Your crew?
It was... Pandorum.  Of the worst sort. They were- I couldn't even- I had to defend myself.
Pandorum. Both of them-?
You don't believe me?
What are you doing? What is that?
It's just a sedative. Help you relax- GALLO lifts his fists with a threatening posture.
Then you take it... and relax. PAYTON backs off, setting the syringe aside.
Take it easy. We're on the same team here. Alright?
If you would have seen them... you would have done the same thing... sir. LIGHTS FLICKER past...
Didn't we come through here already?
We gotta find a way out.
Out? Why did we come iii-?
I was trying to get us out of there alive-
I thought you knew where you were going.
I was trying to save our asses-
Could've mentioned that after the first mile. If I would have known we'd be doing laps down here- She angrily turns towards him, pipe in her hand.
I didn't need to help you at all! You and the Hong-Kong Express would still be playing ding-dong-ditch on level eight if it weren't for me! Their heightening confrontation is halted by...
HIIISSST!
They pause to hear... CLASSICAL MUSIC echoing from below.
What the hell is that? They climb down the shaft, jumping from filter to filter. At one level they follow the sound into a shaft opening and towards the soft, warm GLOW of YELLOW LIGHT. They reach an open hatch, peering inside to see... Inside an empty storage tank, a comfortable living space has been created; numerous chairs surround a make-shift dinner table made from storage crates with hand-made candles and various food containers. The tank appears empty.
What is this!? BOWER and TANAKA begin to climb through and NADIA hesitates with uncertainty. They crawl through the hatch...
No, no, no. Back in der' big boy!
LELAND uses a spear to jab TANAKA'S hand. He loses his grip and tumbles back to the bottom of the tank. BOWER pulls NADIR out of the way of the hatch.
Get back! BACK! BOWER whirls the magneto lever on the weapon and he raises the barrel towards the hatch, nearly point blank. KA-CRAAAACK! The energy blast from the weapon hits the hatch like a lightening bolt sending a tremendous JOLT through the entire tank. A spark IGNITES the chemical gas and there's a BURST of flammable gas that rolls upward into the catwalks. LELAND is knocked off his feet and he GASPS with shock.
Whoa... WHOA! What the hell was that!? LELAND is exposed from his hiding place, waving the smoke from his face, bewildered. He's an older man who's lost all vanity over survival. A thin-framed, spidery little man with assorted clothing and a clutter of tools on his belt.
What did you do!? BOWER whirls the lever on the weapon and points it at him.
Shut off the gas!
Where did you get that? BOWER angles the barrel towards a vent blowing out the chemical gas and LELAND jumps with fright.
Fancy looking piece. Looking to trade?
Com'in, com'in! Make yerselves at home. Just throw the coats on the bed and don't pet the rat, it's not mine. Just watching it for a friend. LELAND is excited to have guests as he runs along the catwalks, lighting candles and sealing valves. They watch him with leery suspicion, weapons still in hand.
You... live here?
Sublet. Got a roomier flat in the bow for the off season, but from here, ya just can't beat the commute. He grins, expecting a laugh, but doesn't get one. LELAND eyes BOWER over, admiring the uniform.
You really a flyer, or did ya grab that off the rack? i didn't think there was any crew left.
Left? Have you seen any?
Well, only the captain. informally, mind you.
Captain? Where!?
Umm, up on B-Deck. Some on C. A few pieces on the promenade and I think his nuts are in the foose-ball game in the rec room.
He smiles, revealing several missing teeth. No one laughs.
Tough crowd. Com'in, com'in. Grab a bunk. Three singles or will a queen do? LELAND laughs to himself, digging through supplies. BOWER scans the walls, seeing no way up to the catwalks.
Why don't you come on down so we can meet properly?
Oh, no-no. No-can-do. I'm real touchy to the dust bug and who knows where yawl have been. No offense. There's something funky going around. But don't let that spoil the party. Here... LELAND lowers down a bin filled with assorted food items, using a wire to drop it to them. TANAKA sniffs it with suspicion.
It's Kosher. BOWER peeks through one of the valves, turning to NADIA.
Where do you think we are?
I don't know. Gotta be somewhere below B- deck.
Why, where you gotta be?
The reactor bay. Know where it is?
Reactor? Now why would you want to go down there?
It's tough to properly season with a motor oil base. But if you use your imagination, kinda tastes like...
How long have you been awake?
Mmmm. Lemme think. What's today, Tuesday? That would be about, mmm... He counts in his head and across his fingers, carefully calculating, then a grin.
No idea. He turns back to his make-shift stove, chuckling to himself.
I quit counting after the band broke up, ooooh twenty... thirty years ago. BOWER and NADIR exchange a look of uncertainty. The classical music begins to SKIP and without even looking LELAND kicks a piece of equipment, correcting the music.
Then again, an hour in this place feels more like... one-fifteen, one-twenty. Know whatta I mean? HA-HP_W!
But I just treat each day like it's Christmas. Festive and violent. Let's eat; Shall we? Who needs a bib? LELAND sets several bowls of soup into the bin and lowers it to them with the cable. T_ANAKA is the only one interested, sniffing the soup with a glare. LELAND winks. BOWER takes a seat, showing exhaustion and defeat.
Those things out there. Could it have been something... that crawled out of your lab? Something that-
No. That's... not possible.
Then something got on board. Some kind of life form. Something that-
Or something that was already on board, with us in the hyper-bunks.
What does that mean?
it could have been the accelerator.
What?
It's the only theory I can come up with. The synthetic enzyme in our feeding tubes. The accelerator that would help our bodies adjust and adapt to the environmental conditions on Tanis. From what I've seen... these things have adapted... to the ship instead.
But, why would- You're saying we'll become like them? Why would they be affected like that and we're not-
I don't know. Like I said, it's the only theory I can think of- Unless...
GALLO is looking at the empty sleep chambers while PAYTON remains at the control console, determined not to give up on contacting BOWER.
Do you know the symptoms of Pandorum?
What?
Orbital Dysfunctional Syndrome. Pandorum. Ever witnessed the symptoms of first-hand?
I've seen it before. But nothing that-
It's not something you can easily detect. Starts with a shiver. An itch. A slow boil... and without being able to get off the ship... there's no shutting off the heat. It'll boil over, no matter what you do. GALLO is slowly pacing the room and PAYTON watches him with uneasiness out of the corner of his eye.
You don't believe me.
I didn't say that-
How could they both have had it? The odds are insurmountable.
I wasn't about to question any of your
But, we all know Pandorum is greatly affected by any substantial psychological It has an emotional trigger effect.
 That's what they say. GALLO slowly rubs his temples, with hesitation.
How do you think you would react... if you knew the truth?
The truth... about what?
B0000OM! Oh, how the world cheered to the thunder of it's mightiest creation. Eylisium! The heaven for heroes, to venture further and farther then any of man's machine dared before it. BOWER and NADIA watch intently as TANAKA lazily sips the soup. The first image is off the ship's launch and LELAND hobbles across to the crudely sketched image of three figures, flight officers.
Three of our bravest... atop the watch tower as we slept. A slumber deeper then any have dared... with only three little Indians left to mind the store...
we were only into our second term. All flight systems nominal. I'd picked up on symptoms with my CO and 2nd Lieutenant. Mild symptoms. Nothing I thought would... become a problem. Until we got the transmission.
What transmission? GALLO'S eyes are welling up, his lip begins to shiver.
The final transmission. The last message... from home.
.until the last cry from home. All of God's creation... ending with mere words of encouragement. Mother Earth's last call. Boop! Leave a message, momma. LELAND presses a switch on a Jerry-rigged piece of equipment, a disc player... speakers crackling with static. A VOICE plays, heavily distorted.
Hoove arr awl dadz efft ah uz. Bood uck, boogz guezz... ab hoobz deeb. BOWER and NADIA are now completely engrossed in the story, both getting to their feet and walking closer to hear. TANAKA is asleep. LELAND is thrilled by their attention, doing a dance as he plays the recording... over and over.
Hoove err all wadz efft ah uz. Good wuck, boogz guezz... abb hoobz deeb...
What is that... saying? LELAND cranks a power lever, speeding up the play back with eagerness, whispering along. The recording slowly grows less distorted the more he cranks the lever.
Yoove are all watt efft of uz. Good uck, gog besh... ab Gogz deez. You are all whadz left of uz. Gog besh... and Gogs sbeeb... God blezz... and Gogz speeb... Slowly LELAND'S whisper and the recording come into unison, eerily echoing through the tank.
You are that's left of us. Good luck, God bless... and God's speed.
Earth... is gone? GALLO puffs across his hand with twisted amusement.
Wiped away. We ran a full sweep off the grid and they were... gone. One day there, the next... nothing.
In one day... it had to be nuclear or-?
Whatever it was, they knew it was coming. Wished us well. We're all that's left. PAYTON sits back in shock, shaking his head in disbelief.
Oh my God...
You can see why I was hesitant... to tell even you. My fellow crew members didn't take the news too well. I wanted to wake the primary crew... but my 2nd Lt was already over the edge.
ODS came through with flying colors. No logic, no reasoning left. No future, no past, no hope. A dangerous mix when you're stuck inside a tin can like this. The blow was more then he could handle. My lieutenant wasn't far behind. Pandorum.
Three little Indians, with the burden to bare... no more law and nothing left to care. Three poor souls, destiny undone. Chop, chop, chop... now there's only one. The sketches reveal violence between the three pilots, two of them killed, one remaining alive.
They were my commanding officers. Men who had guided me through FT. I looked up to these men. But... it wasn't them anymore. They... were gone. They... tried to... I had no choice. I- With his body beginning to tremble, PAYTON tries to console him, touching his arm. GALLO flinches.
Easy...
One little Indian left... all alone with his doom.
Refused to go to bed, stayed up to play in his room. Oh, and what naughty little games he would play with the slumbering prey. Slayer, master, both God and the Devil, some would say. The boy would grow to manhood, a self-proclaimed King, ruler of his vessel, home to his own sin. The sketches show the lone pilot torturing and devouring passengers from their sleep chambers as he grows old.
And then one day the king cast out all those who had behaved, exiled into the barren cargo holds to fend for themselves... scavenging against the others within their own domain. The sketches show tortured victims forced out into the corridors of the ship, the King returns to his sleep chamber.
King Lonely no longer wanted to play... he yearned to see the morning Sun on a Tanis day. He returned to his bed of
Play that transmission again. I want-
Save yer questions til the end please. We'll have a review. LELAND continues his performance as NADIA leans toward BOWER with concern.
Could that be real? You think that could-
I dunno. It can't be- It just-
BOWER is quickly growing drowsy, slurring his words as he takes a seat with exhaustion and disbelief. NADIR rests her chin on her knee... eyes growing heavy as LELAND continues telling the tale, softly like a child's bedtime story. LELAND takes a peace of chalk-like material, drawing a new sketch.
And now the newest chapter comes to us... three weary travelers, guided by the light. The new brave flyer, woken by the dying machine. He sketches Bower and his journey towards the reactor.
A gallant knight who will wake the fiery beast, light the rockets torch that will sail our mighty ship to port! A new king to deliver us to paradise! Hail to the new King... Hail! LELAND looks to see... everyone is asleep. He adjusts a nozzle that... is pumping a colorless gas out of the vents at the bottom of the tank. With a slow forming grin, he blows out a nearby candle, taking us into...
How could they... how could they have let this happen? PAYTON slides his hands off the keyboard, his finger tips i nearly twitching, an uncontrolled tremble. He tries to hide his hands, sliding them under the console as... GALLO watches him blankly before wandering away to let him sit alone with the horrific realization. PAYTON shakes his head, refusing to accept it.
A low SHUDDER approaches, more powerful then felt before, rattling the pipes as it passes with a FLICKER of LIGHTS as...
EVALON is smiling towards BOWER as he kneels in front of her, gripping her hands. As he speaks, her smile fades, slowly pulling her hands away and...
NADIA jumps to her feet, choking and gasping, jabbing her weapon toward LELAND, a small breathing tube clenched in his teeth. BOWER and TANA.KA are woken by their exchange, dazed.
What are you doing!? What the-
He was- He was gonna fucking eat me!
 Whaw!? I waddn't-
He gassed us! He was gonna- All of us! LELAND is appalled, spitting out the breathing tube.
Gas! What gas!? They see he's holding a fork and knife that he quickly tucks behind his back. NP.DIA jabs the weapon and he shrieks.
THE SHUDDER shakes the tank with more force then ever before as they watch the ceiling. It's followed by two quick SURGES, higher pitch. NADIA looks to BOWER.
What is that?
It's gone... into the final cycle.
What does that mean?
it means we have less time then I thought. The last phase... before shutdown. It means we're... done. BOWER is oddly defeated, taking a seat, hanging his head.
Done!? What do you mean done? What do we do? Hey!?
What difference does it make?
What are you talking about? You said you could reset the reactor- That we could- That there's a chance to-
For what? They're gone. Everything is gone. There's no Earth to go back to,
We weren't meant to go back! We were meant to go on. And now it's more important then ever! We're the last of-
And what is left of us? What's left, worth saving? This flight's over. NADIA is angered by his defeat, shoving LELAND aside and squaring off in front of BOWER.
What about your duty? What about... your wife!? There's still a chance she's-
She's dead.
You don't know that for sure!
I know... NADIA grabs him with rage, glaring him in the eye.
You got a radio?
Who the hell are you gonna call-?
Payton? Do you copy? Can you hear me!? He grabs the receiver.
BOWER! I'm here! Where are you?
Storage Tanks, just below B-level. Mid- ship Sector twelve... we think.
How the hell did you get all the way to Y the other side of-
Payton, listen to me. Listen. The I reactor is in its final stage. Its last rotation. It's worse then we thought. PAYTON looks to GALLO, who is silently watching with a hollow glare from the corner.
The ship is dying and I think that's why it finally woke us up. The entire system is heading into permanent shutdown and there will be no return. This entire ship will float off into eternity with no way of stopping it. We need to reset it. Are you hearing me? PAYTON and GALLO share a silent stare.
I hear you. How do we get you in there?
I need you to give me a path. PAYTON and GALLO'S silent stare hangs in the air for a moment, the tension between them unclear. PAYTON turns to the console, quickly typing into the keyboard.
What? TANAKA motions toward the hatchway, shaking his head. He i gestures for them to follow and leads them over debris and through a hole, hidden in the paneling.
EMPTY_LINE
What did he say?
I dunno. But do what he says. They follow TANAKA, crawling through the hole and into...
They exchange silent gestures and TANAKA heads one direction as BOWER heads the other... to corner it. The FIGURE begins to move across the rafter as TANAKA flushes it out. The FIGURE is forced to climb down, hopping to the floor, BOWER waits with his gun raised. Out of the shadows steps... A ten-year-old CHILD HUNTER. BOWER flinches with shock. The CHILD is a younger version of the hunters, awkward physique, pale skin coated with hydraulic fluid, oblong shaped head, eyes hidden in shadow. NADIR lowers her weapon.
stop it! STOP IT! Are you crazy? It's just a child!
Child! ? That's no child! What the hell is it!? TANAKA lunges, but NADIA blocks his attack. The CHILD HUNTER erupts with a horrific SCREECH, HISSING at them before turning and leaping back up and over the rafters, disappearing into the shadows. They are speechless.
Not as cute when they're little, are they? TANAKA runs after it. It takes a moment for the rest to react, chasing after.
The CHILD runs up a wall of tubing and ducks through a small hole punctured in the vents. TANAKA sighs with defeat.
My God. They're... breeding.
What!? What do you mean they? How could they- That's impossible. It appears the CHILD has alerted his group as the BLUISH GLOW of flame can be seen growing stronger in the corridor, the sounds of CACKLES and HISSES approaching.
Little bastard rang the bell. They all quickly turn back, running down a side corridor and into...
This isn't going to work. Too many of them. Have to turn back.
There's no where to turn back to. We can't give up-
Told you this wouldn't fly.
You didn't tell us anything. You never said that. You said you'd love to come-
Why not?
This is where they live. Reactor is the Keeper's temple. They watch and wait as the shadows move past the doorway with the GLOW of BLUISH TORCHES and vocal CACKLES.
What are you doing?
I think the direct channels are fried. I'm gonna run a patch so we can get this door open as soon as we're back on-line.
What's so important on the other side of the door?
The bridge. As soon as we're up we'll be able to take control of guidance. But only from on the bridge. GALLO continues pacing, throwing glances toward the empty sleep chambers.
This ship is not dying. PAYTON refuses to look to GALLO, continuing his work.
It's already dead. You really believe that kid will be able to save this ship?
He can do it.
Twelve hours ago, he didn't know his own name. Now, you think he's ready to re- configure a nuclear reactor?
PAYTON refuses to give him eye contact, continuing to work on the computer as G_ALLO paces back and forth in front of the sleep chambers, fingers rapidly twitching at his side.
He's the only shot we have. Gotta have a little faith.
Faith? After what you know now, you can actually say that with a straight face? A little faith? THAP. A droplet of blood hits the floor at GALLO'S feet.
What are you doing? What is it?
She notices BOWER is holding EVALON'S photo and glances to the row of empty chambers, slowly realizing his grief.
You think she's... here?
She's not here. She's dead.
How do you know for sure? She could be-
She's not on this flight. She wouldn't come with me. She wouldn't marry me.  That's why I came. There was nothing left for me there. She stayed on Earth. Gone... with everyone else. And I left because of her. His gaze begins to gloss over, taking it all in.
Well, then... she saved your life. BOWER frowns on the thought, slowly nodding in agreement. His eyes look to the label of the chamber he was led to, the label reads; M. PAYTON. He mumbles to himself, memory returning.
Marianne.
you... knew her?
I remember her. Payton's wife.
Who's... Payton?
I remember her. I remember- His eyes pull focus, coming out of his daze, memories returning with confusion.
Are you alright?
Com'on.
M. PP_YTON'S name plate and the dried remains of her apparent death lay in the foreground.
He's right about one thing. Once that thing shuts down, we're as good as dead. Nothing on this ship will ever turn on again. Ever. Not the air, not the lights, the heat... not even the pod's escape launch systems. PAYTON refuses to look up from the computer.
What are you saying?
I'msaying... once it's done. We're done. But, we still have a way out of this... before it's too late.
What are you suggesting, Corporal?
We can still launch ourselves in the pods. Before the ignition systems are completely dead, sir.
Launching ourselves... into deep space when we don't even know where we are? We wouldn't last more then a few days inside those things. That's suicide-
A few days is better then what we have left here. I'll take my chances. How long do you think that reactor has been sitting? That thing could melt-down when he tries to fire the core. This ship could be ripped in half-
Stand down, Corporal. We're not going to abandon anything and we're not going to leave them behind-
We can't stay on this ship. You know that as well as I do-
I said stand down, Corporal! That's an order! GALLO steps up behind PAYTON, his face revealed with a thin stream of blood oozing from under his nose, dripping off his chin, eyes hollow and pale. PAYTON refuses to look at him, continuing to type.
This is our chance. BOWER leads the way out of the hiding place, heading quickly towards the open hatch where an eerie glow and rumble is felt. They crawl through the hatch and enter into...
This is it. We've got to get down there before they come back. BOWER looks for a path downward along the tangled metal of catwalks, coated in algae. LELAND'S fear has instantly surfaced, unable to move.
I House of the Keepers. A descent to Hell itself. We can't... go in here.
BOWER ignores his pleas, heading down a ladder into the darkness, TANAKA and NADIA follow, pushing past him.
You're crazy... You can't-
Shut-up! Move! LELAND stays behind, watching as they begin a perilous descent down the walls of the reactor bay wall. Clinging onto the pipes and railings of the catwalks, the odd-colored algae grows more and more dense... a dim glow slowly coming into view from below. With a gap in the catwalk, BOWER leaps across, nearly losing his grip. He looks down to see an odd pattern of white shapes near the bottom. Squinting into the darkness, he's unable to make out what he's looking at and he manages to crawl down further, reaching a gangplank that crosses to the towering reactor. He motions for NADIA and TANAKA to stay put and begins crawling across... towards a darkened control panel.
The fall of the pen-lamp causes one HUNTER to instantly spring to its feet, lifting its nose towards the air like a guard dog checking the scent. BOWER remains frozen, gripping the gangplank that hangs twenty feet above the field of sleeping HUNTERS. I Slowly the HUNTER returns to sleep, slithering its way back into the folds of flesh and BOWER continues his crawl across... reaching the control panel. Upon seeing the sleeping HUNTERS, LELAND fearfully backs away, exiting the room. NADIA and TANAKA grip the ladders, watching BOWER, holding their breath in fright.
BOWER grabs a vine, but it breaks away and he dangles over the side, losing his grip. NADIA jumps across the gap and climbs down, extending her weapon for him to grab. Together they cling to the side of the reactor and BOWER taps the control panel switches and... nothing. His eyes widen with horror, quickly searching for a solution. He slowly pumps a primer switch and... the light panel flickers gently under centuries of dust and vegetation...
He's in! That's the reactor's activator panel. We're going to make it out of
Trust you? How can I trust someone who isn't even honest with himself. Tell me? PAYTON refuses to acknowledge him, continuing to monitor the control panel. He discreetly slides his hand closer to the pipe weapon as he senses GALLO'S presence behind him.
Gallo... you have to listen to me... Carefully. You don't haveto- GALLO steps closer behind him, his shadowed outline showing an imposing posture, his voice is forced and unsteady.
Don't do that. TRAP... TRAP... THAP. Blood drops hit the floor heavily.
Don't... do what? PAYTON slides his hand further across the console, reaching for the pipe weapon, eyes on the screen.
Don't talk to me like some child that needs reassurance. Think I don't know the risks? Think I don't know this ship?
Take it easy- GALLO'S presence is felt behind him, his voice seeming to grow raspier and uneven with breath, anger simmering.
I know this ship and what she's capable of better then anyone. I know her... and I know what she can and can't do.
Easy...
And this... she can't do! Why are we even arguing. You know it-
I'm giving you an order...
You wanna stay here to die, that's your choice, not mine!
.to stand-down... Corporal.
PAYTON shoves himself out of his chair, reaching for the pipe weapon to find nothing! He spins to see GALLO holding the pipe and the pistol-gripped syringe, glaring down at him. The heavy streams of blood are oozing from his nose and ears, insanity shown in his hollow gaze.
Who's being irrational here, Lieutenant? Tell me? Who's being delusional!? Hmm? PAYTON raises his hands, calmly submitting.
Think about what you're doing...
I'm getting off this ship. My flight's over. OVER! Another panel on the console begins to gently blink as...
This won't work...
Shut-up. GALLO jabs the syringe gun towards the back of PAYTON'S head while putting one foot inside the pod.
just think about what you're doing-
PAYTON continues entering the launch code as GALLO steps inside with his other foot.
It wasn't the crew that was sick, was it?
Finish the code...
What did you really do to them...? GALLO slides into the pod and...
PAYTON hits a key and LIGHTS BLINK. GALLO looks away for a second and PAYTON suddenly grabs the hatch lever... SLAMMING it closed. He cranks the latch, locking GALLO inside.
For your own good-
You're not well, Corporal. You just need the proper treatment-
This isn't your fault-
Your mind... has turned against itself. GALLO EXPLODES with RAGE... POUNDING on the hatch with a jack- hammer of fists, bones shattering in his own hands. PAYTON ignores his screams, going back to the console and typing I into the keyboard.
Hurry! Go! BOWER turns back to the panel, flipping more switches and continuing the process as the reactor begins to HUM as...
A booby-trap is sprung, hydraulic pistons SNAP a razor-wire that "clotheslines" the HUNTER, nearly ripping him in half as TANAKA hits the floor, rolls to his feet and keeps running. HEFLIN and the HUNTERS slash the tangled snare with their weapons, trying to break through.
Com'on... NADIA looks back to see there are still HUNTERS in the reactor bay, ones who didn't join the chase, slowly coming out of the shadows, crawling up the walls.
Bower...?
I'm going as fast as I can-
He hits the final key as NADIA grabs his shoulder. He turns to see... WEASEL and numerous HUNTERS have them surrounded, waiting to pounce. With nowhere to go, they are done for as WEASEL CACKLES a command, the HUNTERS moving in, just as... SHIIIISSSSH! High pressure steam erupts from the reactor's pressure relief valves. The HUNTERS back pedal in fear as the ventilation system ignites... fresh oxygen hits the blue torches... BURSTING into BRILLIANT ORANGE FIREBALLS.. The HUNTER'S scatter in a panic as the BRIGHT FLAMES are blinding and a tremendous SHUDDER travels through the ship like an earthquake...
I My God... he did it! He did it.
The SCREENS FLICKER BRIGHTLY, all of the systems engaging. GALLO is shocked, pressing his face against the glass, peering across the computer terminals that are igniting.
Let me out. I can... help. PAYTON ignores him, typing rapidly into the keyboard.
I'll help you! Please- I can help! PAYTON runs over to the security door and hits a switch on the sensor. The door doesn't react.
What are you doing? You can't- You're trying to get on the bridge? PAYTON runs back to the console, typing into the terminal.
You don't want to go in there, Corporal. PAYTON throws him a glare, continuing to type in commands as the room erupts with activity.
What are you going to tell them? Huh? How are you going to explain that?
shut-up.
WEASEL has incredibly quick reflexes as he springs back to his feet just as BOWER charges into him, slamming into a wall of burning algae. The fire quickly spreads across WEASEL'S skin, igniting the oil that's been rubbed across his body. With WEASEL SCREECHING wildly and engulfed in flame, BOWER viciously continues pummeling him, throwing a rage of blows until the body stops twitching. The flames begin to catch on BOWER'S arms and NADIA pulls him back. They look to see most of the HUNTERS fleeing the room, but others have grabbed weapons. BOWER grabs her arm, pulling her towards the hatch.
HEFLIN lunges with a HISS and blades CLASH!
Where do you think you're going?
PAYTON continues to work the control panels, looking to the sealed door on the other end of the room.
Think about what you're doing, sir-
GALLO pushes his knees against the hatch, the pipe beginning to bend, the seal CRACKING open.
You don't want to see what's in there-
What was once a dark and haunting chamber of metal, is now a disco tech from hell as lights FLASH across the corridor in what appears to be a massive riot, PASSENGERS and HUNTERS fighting.
TANAKA tries to grab a hold of him, but HEFLIN digs in with his teeth, biting into his stomach. TANAKA screams, hitting HEFLIN'S head with everything he's got, but he won't let go. TANAKA lifts HEFLIN'S feet and ROARS as he charges himself directly into the wall, neck bones SNAPPING! HEFLIN goes limp, dropping to the floor dead as TANAKA gasps... looking down to see the damage has been done, blood flowing heavily. He takes a breath, turns to exit FREEZING to see... the CHILD HUNTER standing alone, sensing the death of HEFLIN with almost an expression of sorrow. TANAKA lowers his weapon and... THWACK! The CHILD stabs TANAKA in the chest with a small bladed weapon. TANAKA gasps with shock, collapsing to his knees, eyes wide before going to the floor. The CHILD begins to feed.
Go... GO! GO! Half way up, LELAND looks back to see them coming with HUNTERS close behind. He gives them a look before closing the hatch and latching it.
You snake bastard- OPEN IT!
Inside the door at the far end... PAYTON is at the control console, quickly typing into the keyboard. He hears the E hatch CRACK open and he spins to see GALLO, out of the pod, with a twisted grin, holding the pistol-gripped syringe.
We both know who needs this shot...
PAYTON counters with the bladed weapon.
Who's the one suffering... sir-
Corporal... PAYTON slams him against the wall, making him older.
PAYTON slams him again, a FLASH that reveals GALLO has aged almost matching PAYTON, their voices sounding the same...
Your mind... has turned against itself,
I'll FUCKING CARVE YOU UP! Within the struggle, hands grab at weapons, a wrist is twisted... lining up both of their identification tattoos to be identical... FLT>>004>>012>>. The syringe is stabbed into skin. The trigger fires liquid, injecting the chemical into someone's arm as their voices converge, over-lapping at first and becoming one voice...
LELAND runs up the corridor, through the doors and into the room, gasping for breath, pausing to see...
PAYTON is ALONE. He's just injected the syringe into his own wrist. He's the only person in the room. Heavy blood streams are running from his nose and ears. Y77e will now refer to PAYTON by his real name, GALLO. LELAND and GALLO exchange a look... GALLO seeming to snap out of his trance. LELAND approaches, wheezing for air.
We made it! We- I'm with your boy. I was the one helping with- GALLO suddenly SLASHES his throat! LELAND reels back in shock, throttling his own neck in horror, blood gushing. GALLO casually turns back to the console, continuing to type as LELAND tries to cry out, his voice gargled with blood as he staggers, collapsing to the floor. GALLO hits a key and LIGHTS IGNITE, the last door finally engaging. GALLO sigh with relief as the doors slide open revealing a corridor of stairs leading to the bridge. A warm and gentle smile widens on his face.
Captain on the bridge. He heads toward the bridge, while flipping another switch that ignites the opposite doors just as...
BOWER and NADIA angrily burst through the hatch in the floor, jamming it behind them and run up the corridor. They see the doors sliding shut.
That's it! GO! Go for it! With HUNTERS hot on their trail... they run full sprint towards the sliding doors. HUNTERS lunge out of side corridors with SCREECHING HISSES as BOWER and NADIA dive through the sliding doors... One HUNTER is crushed by the doors., split nearly in half with a heavy THUD of steel and a MOAN of hydraulics. The HUNTER spasms wildly, kicking and clawing as BOWER and NADIA back pedal into the room. HUNTERS gather at the gap, stabbing weapons between the doors, trying to crawl through with SCREECHES and HISSES of rage.
BOWER and NADIA back further away, turning to see the room. The original room that BOWER woke up in now looks quite different with all the systems engaged, BLINDING LIGHT coming from the monitors and computer terminals. They move through the room, passing the empty sleep chambers and the control console, seeing the entire pathway of dripped blood across the floor.
Where's... your lieutenant?
He's not my lieutenant. She frowns off his look and turns to see... LELAND on the floor in a pool of blood, throat slashed, dead. BOWER pulls the gun and heads into the open doorway leading towards the bridge as NADIA follows behind.
BOWER leads the way, panning the weapon throughout the room with no sign of GALLO. On the far wall; cockpit windows coated with a black fungus that obscures the view, but hints to the illusion of outer space, a haze of cosmic dust without stars.
Flight log. It'll tell us how long we've I been out... and how far we've gone. BOWER types in a command and the computer begins to scroll through the flight computer's time-code. Starting with the launch date and time the numbers begin to roll faster and faster. BLIP... BLIP... BLIP.
NADIA walks towards the windows and suddenly jumps back with fright to realize one of the flight control chairs has a FIGURE sitting in it. GALLO, motionless and gazing toward the windows. Off her gasp, BOWER grabs his gun and approaches as the computer time-code continues to roll even faster with no sign of slowing... months becoming years. BOWER approaches from behind GALLO... his identification tatto now clearly visible... FLT>>004>>012>>. He cranks the lever on the gun with a WHINE of magnetos and the laser sights flare brightly onto GALLO'S back.
Seems my little memory lapse has finally worn off... "Lieutenant". BOWER slowly approaches, moving closer to his profile, the stream of blood from GALLO'S ear shown running down his neck.
Who the hell are you? GALLO keeps his gaze towards the windows, emotionless.
You're team four. Why would you... switch bunks? Pretend to be someone else? What would you be wanting to hide? Who the hell are you?
I was younger then you when I first came on board. Funny, I can't even remember what it was like... before this flight began. It's all I know.
You were the one... who first received the final transmission. Who refused to go back to sleep. You stayed awake... for all those years. What were you doing... what crimes were you hiding from when you took Payton's bunk? The time-code display rolls faster, years rolling into decades... BLIP, BLIP, BLIP.
Is it true? What have you done to us? Where are we now? GALLO lazily nods towards the windows.
Go ahead. Take a peek. You tell me. BOWER hesitates, looking toward the darkened windows. He stays with the weapon on GALLO as NADIA wanders toward the front control console, towards the glass. With the lights fading on the weapon, BOWER gives the lever a quick whirl, motioning the barrel closer.
What are. you gonna do, Bower? There's no one left to hand out merit badges. No one left at all.
And that makes it okay? To play God?
You think God survived? He's gone... with the rest. There's no one left to judge you, Bower. NADIA approaches the glass, squinting towards the heavily smudged glass. She frowns, trying to wipe away the layer of sludge.
Judgement will come for you. You think you could cover it? Your victims survived. Evolved. That's your creation out there. Your crime. BOWER jabs the gun into his back with force.
And you thought you'd be able to hide it? Who would ever suspect that? Who would ever remember? I remember. NADIA rubs the glass with her hand, squinting into the darkness. The time-code display rolls faster, decades into centuries... BLIP, BLIP, BLIP.
No world left. No law. No order. Only us. You the law now? You gonna be the one that brings order to what's left? Wanna take a shot at it? I did my best with what I was given. Wanna be King for a day? Give it a whirl, Corporal. I'd like to see how you fare. With the laser sights fading on the weapon, BOWER quickly cranks the power lever, keeping the gun raised- A slow grin spreads across GALLO'S face as he finally looks to him, revealing the thick streams of blood that have dripped from his nose, coating his chin and neck.
Try to imagine it. Imagine... yourself for five minutes without morality. I'll bet you'd surprise even yourself, kid-
Shut-up.
Imagine... us both. What's left to stop you? I offer you the kingdom and you-
There's still quite a few sleeping beauties down there... a thousand flavors. You up for a little window shopping?
Shut-up!
 I wanna see it. I'll bet you'd be a
BOWER suddenly shoves him out of the chair, slamming him to the floor, jabbing the barrel into the back of his neck.
There will be law... in whatever world we create. And you'll pay for what you've done. Believe me. GALLO chuckles with his face pressed to the floor.
A real boy scout, is that it, kiddo?
What is it? GALLO looks up with a blood-soaked grin.
What do you see!?
You ready for the new world, corporal? BOWER keeps the gun on him as he goes to the windows. NADIA has a ghostly expression, unable to speak. BOWER leans toward the glass, squinting into the darkness and... SWISH! An object moves past the outside of the glass. He leans closer, squinting to see... a school of ALIEN FISH dart past. The shin is underwater. BOWER staggers in shock, back pedalling as GALLO continues to chuckle.
We've been... down here... all this time!? All this... time-
BOWER staggers against the console in shock,. the weapon lowering to his side.
I guess this thing does land itself. Just doesn't float too well. BOWER lunges towards him and GALLO is ready for this one, quickly countering his move and SLAMMING BOWER into the console. He unleashes a vicious BLOW into BOWER'S throat. BOWER collapses, choking for air and GALLO kicks the gun away. He kneels over BOWER, slowly pulling out a blade.
And you thought you could be King!? He slides the blade under BOWER'S neck and... there's a WHIRL of magnetos. He looks up to see NADIA cranking the lever on the energy gun. She tries to turn the gun towards him and...
.sending a thin crack across the surface of the glass. She struggles to crank the lever again as GALLO charges, hitting the gun away. He SLAMS her over the console.
My apologies. Ladies first... of course.
GALLO grabs her hair to expose her neck and angles the blade upward, forcing her to take a GASP as... BOSSSH! Water explodes through the windows, hitting the room like a hundred fire hoses. GALLO is hit directly and thrown across the room as NADIA and BOWER are engulfed by the blast of black water, sent tumbling.
NO!? Are you crazy-
He pulls her inside and turns to the control panel. He hits the keypad to read: >>> DETACHMENT INITIATED >>> BOWER struggles to close the hatch as water rushes in, SLAMMING it shut on top of them. GALLO struggles to keep his head above water as the fast moving current SLAMS him into the edge of the doorway. His I fingers claw at the manual lever for the door, tugging and tugging with no effect as the water rises above his head.
Hold on! Under the roar of the rushing water, hydraulics ignite. Micro-jets FIRE and WHOOSH! The pod launches, shooting down a tunnel until they're HIT with a tremendous JOLT. They are sent spinning into a wild tumble as bubbles and gas erupt across the outer surface. BOWER and NADIA slam into one another as the chamber turns end over end. Its roll seems to slow for a brief moment and BOWER squints toward the porthole to see...
They are pulling away from the side of the ship. The rate of speed with a swirl of ocean water and bubbles. BAM! The pod SLAMS into something as SPARKS fly and seals are ruptured as WATER sprays in with a blinding BLAST. The chamber is sent into another violent roll as NADIA and BOWER tumble head over feet, as if caught within a washing machine. The chamber finally steadies as water washes across the control panel, one last burst of sparks knocks out the lights, taking them into BLACK. Only their gasps are heard as they squirm towards the upper corner... only a foot of air remaining. He grabs the mask connected to tubes in the side and pulls the straps over her head.
I What are you doing!?
1 Put it on!
No! I can't- Not like this! I'm not going to wake up and drowned-
Hey...? Hey? She chokes on the air and struggles to orientate herself, looking up to see him gazing down at her, coated with bright sunlight.
They sit on the edge of the sleep chamber as it lightly bobs within the ocean waves. They're just off shore from a stretch of mountainous tropical islands with waves crashing against the beaches. The unusual shape of the islands and their geography are nothing like we've ever seen on Earth. Several moons dot the sky and the sun is rising with a brilliant glow on the horizon.
A hand flips off the switch for the ventilation ducts. It's
standing at the console, having changed clothes and recovered from the ordeal. He examines the empty tank where BOWER'S sleep chamber once sat. He eyes the other sleep-chambers, deeply contemplating. He goes back to the control console, scanning across the numerous surveillance monitors that reveal... PASSENGERS and HUNTERS engaged in a variety of activities all across the ship. Some are seen fighting, some searching for food, some searching for a way out, some alone weeping. A kingdom, for the taking. He pulls out a coffee packet and slowly begins mixing himself a cup, deeply contemplating as he looks across the screens. He glances over to see... YOUNG GALLO, the younger version of himself, who is seated nearby, watching with a grin. The blood is gone from his face, appearing clean-cut, clean uniform.
Well, if you're gonna be captain... what are we gonna do now? Off his look...
What is a King... without his Queen. He hits the control panel switch and...
