 The Black Panthers...
 People still ask me how it all started? How things went so far? And like a lot of questions about the Panthers, there are different answers. Different beginnings...
 What became the Black Panthers really started with just two guys -- Bobby Seale and Huey Newton -- saying two words: "Defend Yourselves..." Legend has it they met at some coffee house where Bobby was running down a rhyme...
Oh yeah. Yeah it's easy to see right on your black and white TV. Black man. Blue cop. Red blood. Niggers watch other niggers die. That's right Niggers watching niggers die. That's the American way...
 Pigs threw them in jail. There they starting talking about black folks oughta start standing up. No master plan, no pot to piss in, nothing like that. Just two fed-up brothers... Next thing you know, you got the Black Panther Party for Self Defense...
 For me, it started different. A lot different. You may as well say The Panthers started in my front yard...
Shucks I see you staring, but I ain't letting go. Them hips is almost forty years old but the hat is brand new!
Yes indeed, that Bitter Dog...  What's up little brother?
I'm telling you, man. The perfect gift for the sophisticated lady in your life. Light up her flame with some solid gold satisfaction and get a second one half price for your wife. Can't beat my price with a stick, baby.
Sabu, why're you still tryin' to sell these raggedy ass, non workin' Korean lighters man?
Oh lord... not again...
God damn... Kid never had a chance...
Mothafuck... Hey!!! What the hell!!!
 People were pissed off. Neighborhood had been begging for a stoplight since before dirt was invented. Way I saw it then, that boy dying was another shitty thing in a world full of shit.
 Way I see it now... That day. That intersection. That's where it started for me.  Only, I didn't know it then...
You supposed to be a wounded vet, Motherfucka. What you do in 'Nam anyway, shoot gooks or shoot hoops?
All of the above, man...  And then some.
Tell me, don't you fine black men got anything better to do than play games?
Sure I do, but your sister's busy. Gimme the damn ball.
Here... Take it. I thought some righteous brothers like you might help us out, but I guess that ain't you...
 Help who? With what?
Your community! That's who. Maybe you didn't know but a kid died today.
That's three this year... same spot.
Damn straight. And old Reverend Slocum's having a vigil on that corner, trying to get a stoplight put in.
 My Mom's at that.
Funny you don't look like church folk to me.
Oh I ain't. But it seems The Man's getting uptight about black folk standing in the street, causing a fuss. What I'm asking for, is some of your able black asses to come down and be "Observers" on the cops. Take down badge numbers. They don't like pulling shit with too many eyes on 'em. So that's how you can help, not by praying but by watching.
Not me. This able black ass ain't fucking with no cops.
Look, I understand but if some Blacks insist on trying to interact with the white man, that's not our concern. We are African, "brother." Mother Africa is the only...
No, you look, you phony ass boojie nigger. We ain't in Africa, we're in Oakland. And in Oakland we got police brutality. We got the white man interacting his billy club up against the black man's head. Now if that don't bother you, then take your skirt wearing ass back to Africa... "Uncle."
Try it.
 Chickenshit boojie...
 What about you two? You were there, you saw that kid?
I saw... but...
But nothing... you do live here don't you?
Yeah, I do.
 Well, act like it. Come on.
You young niggas crazy. The Man ain't gonna let us have no say in running shit! Keep it up and he's gonna come down on our ass like a ton of bricks...
Don't let the cops provoke you. We're there to watch and take badge numbers...
And who is we?
Brother where you been?  We're the Black Panthers.
The Panthers...  How old are you?
Sixteen.
 Shit, we made him get his moms to give permission before he could sign up.
Just a kid.
Yeah, well, cops kick the shit out of kids too.
I thought you said all the Panthers were gonna be here.
What you see is what you got.  That's' Bobby Seale.
Carter... buddy of mine from way back... And Gene...
And that... that's Huey...
Ain't too many of you is there?
 Only takes a single grain of sand to move the world...
 Heads up!!!!
What in the Sam Hell is this?
A vigil for some pickaninny got hit here.
Vigil my ass...
 Listen up, you all have 30 seconds to disperse and return to your homes.
Failure to do so will result in your immediate arrest...
Go on get your black hide outta here...
You are resisting arrest!...
Oh shit Mom...
 Jesus...
 The power structure locks the black man up. That's right. We move from chains to bars and locks. Kangaroo courts put brothers in jail. No jury of our peers. No jury of black folks. How do we stop this insanity? It's simple. Organization. That's the key. We must organize. We must maintain discipline...
That's right brother... listen and learn.
The white power structure wants us to act like savages.  But we're a different kind of animal altogether. We're Panthers. And The Black Panther Party for Self Defense is very painfully aware that America has historically reserved its most barbaric treatment for non-white people since the beginning of the country. So we need to organize, we  keep our shit correct! And effect revolution. We revolve the power into the hands of the people. Where it belongs.  Power to the people baby...
Power? Shit, old folks can't even sing without getting their asses kicked.
Well, then like the man said... Maybe it's time we stop singing and start swinging.
Yeah, but they got the guns.
We can change that. We got the right to bear arms, so I'd say it's time to exercise that right. Like Comrade Mao says, "Justice through power, Power through guns."
Chickenshits, just harassing our ass, we weren't breaking any law.
But at least we're free! God has delivered us from the lion's den.
Free? We're back where we started. Shit we still don't have a stop light.
Well as the Rev says, God helps those who help themselves.  We'll be our own stoplight.
 Check it out... Great huh? I tell you those guys know what time it is. Man I'm with that...
I don't know. Look around man.
C'mon Judge we got to start somewhere.
Yeah, and I'm gonna start by getting on my feet. Working on things from inside the system.
Inside ain't in the system.  It's right there inside you!! I'm joining up.
I... I gotta go...
It's okay Mom. I'm allright.
You don't look alright.
 Yeah... cop hit me...
I saw. I saw that big one  hit that police man. Saw 'em drag you off too.  They take you to jail?
 Yeah.
Lord, never thought I'd live to see my boy in prison.
Mom! It wasn't like that. It was bullsh... They were just harassing us. No charges were filed. It's alright.
You meet those friends of yours in jail too?
Yes... No... Mom it's not like you think. They're alright. There out there trying to do something.
I hear them boys, those Black Panthers, they're communists. They don't even believe in God.
Mom, black folks been praying to God for four hundred years. Maybe it's time we tried something else...
You believe that?
I don't know. I really don't.
I'll tell you one thing Judge...
 Them boys gonna start a bunch of trouble they keep on like that.
 Those things don't work...
Don't I know it. Come on in Agent Rodgers. Sit down. Always a... pleasure to see you. How can I be of help?
It's a bit more like how can we help you. Bay Area's become quite a hornet's nest in terms of subversive activities. And... well Mr. Hoover wants to reiterate that the FBI will be happy to assist local authorities in any way we can. On a strictly advisory basis... of course.
Of course. Well, I appreciate your offer, but we got things pretty well under control. Same bunch of kooks you guys already have under surveillance. They're still doing a lot of yelling and pot-smoking but nothing to worry about.
 I see. What about the Black Panther Party for Self-Defense?
Heh, bunch of shines running around in dark caps waving their fists about some streetlight. They're loud, but they aren't dangerous,
Can you make a deal with them?
Naw... They're kids mostly. Idealists. They actually think they're for real.
Hmmm. As you know the Bureau -- and Mr. Hoover -- is particularly "sensitive" to anything that might agitate or solidify the coloreds on the left.
You want me to put a man on it?
That would be an excellent start.  Tell him to keep a low profile.
What do you want? Panama Red? I can get you Panama Red Sinsemilla? Got a line on some chocolate hash... get you high as a motherfucking monkey...
Uhh... man I was wondering...  can you get some Cocaine?
Coke? Shee-it.  Yeah, I can get you cocaine. But it's dangerous. Cops everywhere. Gimme twenty dollars and meet me back here in an hour. And don't fuck around white boy, this is the serious shit.
Uh okay, alright. You'll be here in an hour?
Yeah I'll be here.
 Now that was one dumb motherfucker...
Sabu, what the fuck you doing? Ain't nobody gonna push on this street.
Shit, I ain't doing nothing. White bread asks for cocaine, I take his money. Shit... you know... It was just a hustle.
Sabu... High white dude's the only thing you could hustle.
Man... fuck you. Why you always bustin' my balls? All that high and mighty militant shit. I ain't doing nothing.
I dig, you just hustling. But you make sure it stays like that brother, or you will have much grief on your sorry ass.
 Motherfucking Panthers, worse than the police...
What's the matter Casper, you lost or something?
Hey! I'm talking to you.
Ohhhh... Looky there...  It's a Cop...
Fuck.
...Yeah, it's a perfect next step, let the community know that we're dedicated to Malcolm's ideals...  Damn where's Bobby Seale?
Huey!! Man you gotta check this out... You're gonna love...
 Hold up a second... We got a decision to make.
What's up?
Dig it, you know those brothers over in San Fran... call themselves the Black Panthers too?
Sure, those boojie jokers don't do anything except print up a lotta paper saying "Black is Beautiful."
Shit, nothing but Paper Panthers.
 Yeah... but it seems they're bringing Malcolm's widow Betty Shabazz to town, to speak at a rally, do an interview for Ramparts.  And they want us to help with security.
Well if anyone's gonna protect Malcolm's legacy it better be us.
Damn straight...  Let's go check out these Paper Panthers.
Greetings African brothers... You're here to help us with Sister Shabazz no doubt?
 Fucking boojie...
That's right. We'd be proud to provide as escort for Malcolm's widow. How many men you got?
 Get the brothers a beer. Me too while you're at it.  Men? Well we can spare six for security...
 No thank you sister.  Six?!! That seems a little light. Cops are watching Betty, watching her hard. We need at least twenty men. And that's twenty armed Panthers dig? You do have guns don't you?
I assure you that we as the revolutionary vanguard are as serious about this as you are. We'll be prepared.
They ain't fit for the name Panthers.
Twenty men? I don't know if we got that.
We'll get them. Right now we got to worry about being armed and ready to protect Betty Shabazz. Those phonies sure as hell can't. We need guns.
We need money first...
Yeah... Bobby you gotta...
 Got it covered Huey, that's what I was trying to tell you before. Check it out...
Bought every copy in Chinatown. Got us a discount too, thirty cents a piece.
Here it is Brothers. The Lowdown straight from comrade Mao's mouth.  If you open the minds, the bodies will follow.
 Huey uhhh... these... these guys want to join...
I'm sorry boys. But right now The Party feels it's important for Black People to do it for themselves. We're not signing up white folk.  But, if you are down with what we're doing, organize some righteous white folks. I got a feeling we're gonna need each other.
Hey, this what they got you doing now?
Party needs the bread.  Be hip to the struggle, only a dollar!!!
A dollar? Far out! Is it authentic?
Comrade, this here's the real deal, straight from Revolution HQ.
Huh?  Hey, I can dig it man.  Thanks! Long live the revolution, brother.
 Judge I could use someone like you. These books, hell I don't know half the words. You might.
Have to pass on the revolution today man, I got class... But how about tonight, I was gonna check out "Cloud Nine." Just like old times.
Can't... they're having a PE meeting at Headquarters tonight, come on down. Check it out.
PE? What? You guys doing gym class?
No man. PE -- "political education."
You're a smart brother... you should dig what Huey and Bobby got to say...
Maybe...
 Fuck maybe... be there.
Like I said... maybe.
Rose, what the hell you doing here?
Just come for the food, man. Ain't quite sure what their bag is but...
That one's one hell of a cook...
...We... the Black Panther Party are not anarchists. We want a government that serves the people. In the black community we want a government that serves black people. Black cops for Black People. Not the Army we have occupying the community "Army?" you ask. "What army? This isn't Vietnam." Well the Army's right out your door folks. They're the cops.
They're pigs brothers and sisters. And these pigs are soldiers fighting against us. Whether you got an Afro or a process on. Whether a sister's got her hair straightened or whether she's got a natural on. Whether it's a brother in a dashiki or a pimp with a sharp suit on. Whether a sister's prostituting or teaching kids to read. The pig will murder you because you're black. No matter what kind of hair you wear. So we best get ourselves together, organize, learn our history and put the power in the hands of the black community before this army, these pigs wipe this community out.
...Glad you came man.
Yeah, only I figure you'd be the one doing the speaking.
Not yet, one of these day's maybe. Bobby's party chairman. Political Education's really his bag.
You're Cy's Vietnam buddy right?  C'mere I'd like to talk with you...
You were. infantry right?
Yeah.
So I guess it's safe to say you know about firepower.
Busted firing pin.  You want only the legal stuff right?
Just the legit shit.
Nothing wrong with that pistol.
Serial number's been filed. Cop catches you with that he figures you either stole it or killed someone with it...
I don't want no trouble. No cops coming to me about these guns.
No trouble here. You got a permit to sell.  We're buying. All perfectly legal.
 These are worth a lot more.
 I thought you were a revolutionary. We can't afford em if you don't cut us some slack. But... you treat us right and we'll be doing a lot of business.
Alright.
We appreciate your help with this.
So what's the deal?
 Freedom... We're just gonna test some of the words in that law book.
Judge... we're doing security for Betty Shabazz's visit next week. I'd like to have someone who knows there way around a pistol there. Someone like you.
I don't know.
You are down for protecting Malcolm's widow aren't you?
Yeah... let me think about it.
Okay man I ain't going to push. But remember the revolution isn't going to wait for anyone. Come on, we'll give you a lift.
No man. Gonna walk.
 This here's a "Panther Patrol." We see a brother getting busted. We check it out, make sure the pig don't go beating on the man. Brother gets taken downtown, we post bail, hook 'em up with a lawyer.
We're like policing the police.
 Damn straight.
Okay now, er, Huey, so what's your telephone number?
I have confirmed to you my address, that's all I'm required to by law to do. We have broken no law.
What are you doing with the gun?
 What are doing with yours?.
Here's another one. That your pistol there?
No! It is not his weapon. A handgun would be a violation of his probation. It's mine!
 Lemme see that rifle son...
 No! This is my private property. According to California law we have a constitutional right to bear arms.
 Okay. Okay. Move along. Go on about your business...
Wait!! Brothers! Sisters!! You don't have to go anywhere. This is your business. Stay right here. The law says as long as you keep a reasonable distance, eight to ten feet to be exact, you've got a right to observe the police carrying out their duties. From what I can see, you're standing some 22 feet away from this man here. So brothers ain't no law being broken.
Is that gun loaded BOY?!!
Fish and Game laws clearly state that it is unlawful to have a live round of ammunition in the chamber of a shotgun or rifle in a vehicle... PIG!!
Refer to him as officer.
Well then don't refer to him as BOY!
 Well... is it loaded?
I tell you "officer", it wasn't...
...but now IT IS!
For the last time Boy!!! What do those guns mean??!!
They mean, Pig!, that the Black Panther Party declares that if you try to brutalize our community or take our weapons.  We are going to shoot you!!!
 Never thought I'd live to see the day! You know the police ain't nothing but the KKK with badges.
One: "We want freedom. We want the power to determine the destiny of our Black Community." Two: "We want full employment for our people." Three: "We want to end the robbery by the white man of our Black Community." Christ, they're asking for reparations...
They couldn't have thought this up for themselves.
 Yeah... Sounds like the Constitution to me. With a little of the Bill of Rights thrown in...
Inspector Brimmer, this is no joke During your surveillance have you seen any outside agitators? Professorial types? Communists?
No. I've seen Black men handing out bags of food. Having meetings. Patrolling the neighborhood. Having more meetings. They ain't...
They are carrying guns. They are threatening police officers. They are undermining the United States of America. And you Inspector Brimmer are not taking your duties seriously...
Now hold on Rodgers...
Chief Dorsett, if the Black Panthers are going to remain in your jurisdiction, some fundamental changes in attitude need to be made...
Like?
Like, you Inspector Brimmer are not going to be sitting in your car anymore. I think it's time for a more active type of involvement.
Evening Chief. Another hard day keeping the streets safe?
 What are you doing out so late?
I like to keep an eye on my "investments" so to speak. You know we still need to discuss that business expansion we spoke of.
 Look, I don't think...
That's a beautiful car. You'd do well to remember who paid for it. Good night, Chief, we'll speak again soon.
 Man, did you see Huey down on Grove street? All up on that cop, that was beautiful.
Yeah, it was alright. Hey, can you give me a lift?
You got it. Berkeley?
No, Panther Headquarters.  Least that way we could hang out more like we used to.
You joining? My Brother..  My brother.
Sign me up!! Just gimme a gun and point out the cops you want me to shoot...
Where's the free food at?
My momma, she marched with King. Don't know exactly what kinda change that brought. But man you put that cop on Grove through some serious changes!!!
I hear you Panther boys get the finest pussy.
Vietnam man... I go there and then come back to some honky motherfucker telling me what to do, beating my ass if I don't. Man... fuck that.
Judge is gonna join us.
Welcome Brother, if we stand together we can break the chains.
 Huey wants to see you.
Huh?
He had a feeling you'd be coming by.
Welcome brother, have you decided to get down with us?
I'm down.
Yeah... You were a lot of help with those guns. Your soldier shit is bad- ass.
I'd hoped I was finished with all that. But... 
You know, you're lucky to be back. Most niggers die on the front lines. Seems like that's what they're there for.
Don't I know it. Every brother I knew in 'Nam's dead. My company... a land mine. Twenty of my friends dead in less than a second.
Mind if I ask you something? Why'd you put up with shit like that for someone else's war?
Hey, GI bill pays for school. And shit, if I stuck around here, instead of signing up, I'd probably be in jail, or sitting on the stoop drinking Bitter Dog with Rose, you know?
Yeah I know. You're smart Judge. You ain't no bourgeois nigger like those Paper Panthers across the bay. I need every good man to help us with the security on Betty Shabazz, particularly soldiers. You do solid on that I might have something else for you, something real important.
Whatever you need, I'll be there.
Right on Brother Judge...
What would you tell young brothers and sisters to do in following Brother Malcolm's footsteps?
I'd say that Malcolm lives in each of us. We all need to work together for the community.  Like those brothers out there are...
 Huey...
 Oh oh...
 What's going on here son?
We are breaking no law, you've have no right to detain us.
There she is!!!
 Arrest this man!!!
If I'm gonna arrest anyone it's going to be you...
Not today!!
Don't point that gun!!!
That's right be a smart nigger like your friend.
He's not my friend and I promise you pig. Your men draw and this will be a blood bath. It's your call.
 Aren't you going to do anything...
 Like he said asshole, they're not breaking any law...
You see that on jive dashiki man, hiding under the desk. Shit paper panthers.
What it be Judge. Nobody got hurt, Sister Betty's safe. This was a good day...
They were empty...
What was empty?
The Paper Panthers' guns, they weren't loaded. I know guns man. Those guns were empty.
Like I say Brothers we are the vanguard.  Get me a beer... I tell you once Cleaver's story comes out, we're gonna...
We put our lives on the line today. Malcolm X's widow was on the line today. And your guns weren't even loaded.
A gun's a gun man. It don't need to be loaded.
Tell that to the pigs. Better yet tell that to Malcolm.
Wait a second there brother...
No you wait a second. You and your "Panthers" got three choices. One you join with us and follow our rules. Two you change your name.  Or three you face annihilation.
Pretty boy, you're a long way from Oakland. Fuck you.
You're exactly the kind of brother we don't need. Kind of brother who gets others killed. Now you gonna change your name.
Roy, tell him you'll do it.
Please!!! Yes!!! We'll change the name.
You were alright Judge, better than alright. You're what the Party needs. A fighter but also one that's going to school not making the man too nervous.
I don't know about that.
I do. You think you're smart enough to keep playing the game?
What, I don't know how you mean?
See, the thing about Panthers. For all their speed and strength. They are not naturally aggressive. They don't just go out killing, tearing through the jungles murdering. No, the Panther  keeps his claws hidden until he is attacked, until he's backed into a corner. Then  believe me those claws are fierce.
Huey, you're losing me. What are you talking about?
I'm talking about survival. Yours, mine, all of it. Outside and in. You got to do something for me. Staying alive might depend on it. The pigs are gonna try to infiltrate us and we're gonna let 'em. But their spy's gonna be our spy too. How about it?
Me? You've got a whole lot of other folks signing up. Why me?
You fit the profile, Brother. You look exactly like the kind of nigger they think they can trust...
Get me out man in Oakland...
Alma!? I uhh I don't think...
What do you mean? We're black ain't we? And we care about improving the plight of out people don't we? Or you figure oppression stops at that thing dangling between your legs!
 Uhh... I with it sister but...
But nothing, we want full fledged membership in the Black Panther Party... and none of this "Okay sugah as long as you stay in the background washing my socks and rubbing my feet" bullshit either!
I can dig that! If your down with the Ten-Point-Program, sign up.
 There's a lot of work to be done.
You're Judge right? We need to talk.
I don't know you and I got nothing to say to you.
 Yeah you do. It's up to you either here or downtown.
 They tried to recruit me. Just like you figured.
 You're a little old to be a school boy aren't you brother.  Cool it! You're probably not the only one they've gone after. Stall a little so they believe you're for real. Make them trust you.  Hey Tyrone, you figure feeding our children is gonna make The Man jumpy?
 Black people getting uppity, feeding their children breakfast, taking their destiny into their own hands. What's this world coming to?
Hands up, you ain't going nowhere.
I wasn't going nowhere in the first place. I ain't done shit.
"Done shit, SIR!!" Nigger don't move...
I ain't done...
Momma, these here are the Panthers I asked over from Oakland.
I thank you all for coming to grieve with us. The police won't tell us nothing.
They been shooting Black men down around here like they're going out of style.
 My boy didn't do nothing. He didn't do nothing. Can't nobody do something.
We came to do something.
...The police report says he was shot three times but the coroner's report says quite clearly that Denzil Dowell was shot six times. And two of those shots were in his armpits. Brothers and Sisters you know why that is?  Because Denzil had his hands up!!
 No more police brutality! WHAT DO WE WANT?
JUSTICE!
 More programs man!!! In the car.
Afternoon asshole... You shoulda told me about this. C'mon...
WHAT DO WE WANT?
JUSTICE!!!
C'mon let's...
No! Just harassment. Can't let it stop this. (an eye to car, then the crowd) Brother we got momentum!
What do we want!!??
JUSTICE!
Amen! The Lord God Almighty be our witness. Let us bow our heads and pray for...
 POWER TO THE PEOPLE!!!
POWER TO THE PEOPLE!
 You're not getting in here with no gun.
This firearm is being carried in plain view and is therefore perfectly legal according to California statute...
Over my dead body.
That's your call pig.
 We come for justice, not bloodshed but don't be pushing us too far.
Bled to death!?!? The Coroner's report says he was shot to death. We demand a grand jury investigation in the death of Denzil Dowell and the pattern of brutality against the Black citizens of Richmond.
 The Police department has conducted its own inquest and concluded that no misconduct occurred. As for a "pattern of brutality..." The charge is ridiculous.
Then what do you call four dead Black men in six months?!
I call it the police doing there duty under the law. You got a problem with that... take it to the legislature but get the hell out of my office.
 The pig might just have a point.
So... we understand each other Judge?
 Yeah.
Alright then.
I expect to hear from you soon. If Huey Newton takes a crap, I want to know how big it was. Otherwise I'm gonna come looking for you. And I won't be as "friendly" as today.
I got you.
You just remember one thing Judge. You've got a lot at stake. And The Panthers are gonna lose. Question is, are you gonna lose along with them? Your future? Your mother? Think about it.
As soon as black people exercise their rights to bear arms and defend themselves the pigs want to change the law. We're not going to make it easy for them to have unarmed targets. Now, you all have a good time cause this here's our community and it is a beautiful thing.  Power to the people.
This brothers is gonna be a colossal event. We'll shut the mother down right at the capitol, in front of the cameras. (annoyed off Bobby's pacing) Will you cool it? What's up man? What it be Bobby?
What it be is, You aren't coming with us.
What? We're the leadership, you and me. There ain't enough of us to...
That's just it Huey. The pigs don't know how many Panthers there are. Both of us show and they might start putting 2 and 2 together. We're not even two hundred strong yet... but we got 'em guessing thousands.
I hear you. Alright. I'll go, you stay.
Huey... We took a vote. You're still on probation. We can't risk you. Things is starting to get hot. Go mow yo momma's lawn like you promised.
Alright, I'll stay. Judge, I want to...
 Where you been? I saw the cops rousting you at the rally.
Aw... uh... it's was just harassment. My driver's license expired.
Chickenshits, they're grabbing at anything.
What's the pig's name?
Brimmer.
 You got to keep very cool on this. Icy god damn cool. Cause baby, you just became the strongest weapon we got. Let me guess, he wants you to call him, tell him what we're doing.
Yeah.
And you're gonna do just that. But I'll tell you what to feed the pig. You alright with this?
Yeah... I guess. Any of other Panthers know about this?
Man, this shit's pretty thick.
You got that right. And brother, I got a feeling it's going to get a whole lot thicker.
Is this a militant action? Are the Panthers storming the Capitol?
No!!! Definitely not!!!  We are here to send a message. The Black Panther Party for Self Defense calls upon the American people in general and Black people in particular to take careful note of the racist California Legislature now considering the Mulford Act, which is aimed at keeping Black people disarmed and powerless while racist police agencies throughout the country intensify the terror, brutality, murder and repression of Black people.
You can't come in here!
We are here to observe the Assembly. You will not stop us.
This door leads to the Assembly floor, it's closed to the public. You have to go to the Visitor's Gallery, it's...
 Tell the court Mr. Seale are you proud to be the co-founder of the Panthers, an anti-white movement.
 The Black Panther Party is not anti- white, you cannot fight racism with racism.
 Gentlemen, please approach the bench.
My clients broke no law. It was an accident, a wrong turn. Besides, the guns were not illegal. Dismissal!
They will be as soon as the Mulford act passes. Six Months for everyone!
Okay, last offer. Ninety days, no felony charges, just a disturbing the peace.
Deal!
Not so fast. But only if he  and one of his lieutenants agree to six months.
You got six months to donate to the party, Bobby?
You know it brother.
 ...at least that takes Bobby Seale off the street...
Not good enough Rodgers. Not good enough at all. Black terrorists on the floor of a State Capitol. I will not say this again, these Negro Commies are to be stopped and now. You tear them down. Either from the outside or the inside.
 We're working on that...
Work harder. And get me some results. Those Black Bastards could be up to anything.
C'mon we're going for a ride...
Why didn't you tell us about the party you boys were planning at the capitol?
Shit man. It was... you know spontaneous.
Spontaneous my ass!! You told the press and you don't tell me. Remember you're working for us.
Yeah... whatever you say.
Are you fucking with me? You smartass piece of shit...
Get out of the car.
What's with you?
Get out of the fucking car.
"Whatever you say, Inspector Brimmer." Fucking a right pal. Time you got your wiry head on straight.
What are you crazy?
Do you know how easy it would be for you to just disappear. Shit, you wouldn't even wash up for weeks. Do you fucking understand?  I want you to move your ass outta neutral. I want a bunch of Panthers served up on a fucking plate. I want you to set 'em up... armed robbery!!
I can't... they don't operate that way...
Fuck how they operate. Just do it. like your man says, "By any means necessary."
Alright then. Here's a little help on your tuition. Get back in the car.
Where the hell's Judge anyway?
Between school and the Panthers, he's been running raw. I never see... Aw shit...
You want a hand?
 No... go on up. I been kicking his narrow ass since high school.
What you got to sell?
 Lady, every Black man you lay eyes on ain't a dope dealer.
 "My license was expired" Yeah, right.
I ain't gonna tell you no more. No pushing in the neighborhood, especially not on my fucking street. You're killing your own people asshole.
Man, fuck you!!!
No Fuck you!!!
I ain't playing Sabu. You keep on like this and I'm going to bust you up.
Aww man...
Those Panthers are turning into real shitheels ain't they...
Yeah, they're motherfuckers, all high and mighty.
You shouldn't take that. If I was you...  I'd stand up for myself, if you know what I mean.
Tyrone? Shit, where'd you go?.
Look around you, brothers and sisters, we're building the numbers. New members coming in almost every day. I'd like to introduce one of them. He's is the author of "Soul on Ice," a respected journalist and I'm proud to say the newly appointed Minister of Information for the Black Panther Party. Brothers and sisters, Eldridge Cleaver.
Brothers and Sisters! You are all well aware of the chains that we as a people bear. The chains of slavery, of second class citizenship. But there are other, more invisible chains. The chains of not speaking your mind. The chains of all the words left unsaid out of fear of reprisal by The Man. The silencing of our Black voices. I'm here to tell you that we have a voice.  And I'd like to prove to you. All of you, repeat after me.
Fuck Ronald Reagan.
I'm serious. Repeat after me. Fuck Ronald Reagan.
Fuck Ronald Reagan!!!
Feels good don't it. Amazing how saying your mind can free your soul.
Fuck Ronald Reagan!!
Huey man I got to talk with you...
So talk...
 Alone...
Look... can we deal with this tomorrow... I'm tired...
Listen Judge, Oakland's Panther International Headquarters. We shut the Pig's infiltration down here, they're gonna think twice about running their games on other chapters.
Huey, man who's gonna straighten out the brothers if they get on my ass?
Like the manual says, "Information is...
Yeah, and what I need to know, is what exactly your gonna do about feeding the pigs a bust?
I don't know man. I don't know. That reminds me. (passing an ENVELOPE to Huey) Another little donation from the police.
If the pigs only knew they were subsidizing The Panthers...
Yeah well, they want a lot for their money. They want a felony, preferably with "violent intent." We've got to give them something. They'll kill me if I don't. And the Panthers are going to kill me if I do. I'm scared.
Me too. That's why I fight so hard.
Hey, it's the invisible man. Brother where you been?
 Cy... I ain't even sure.
C'mon we'll walk and talk...
 Naw... I gotta...
I hear you. I'll catch you in a bit. Feeling cooped up in there, you know?
Hey... Cy... what now you a righteous Panther man, you too uppity to drink with us?
You know that's bullshit.
Aaaah, Bitter Motherfucker... I almost forgot how nasty that shit is.
Well don't go forgetting your friends.
 Ain't gonna happen, stay cool.
You know it. Stay Black...
Damn straight.
I swear, you gotta be a card-carrying member of the stupid revolution.
Motherfucker... you stay away...
Look this is bull...
 ...shit...
C'mere...
Signed up 'bout a month ago. Says his name's Matty. I call him spy!
Motherfucker gave the pigs the license numbers of every Panther car.
 This the finger you ratted on us with?
What? You don't like to see a traitor get hurt? I wonder why that is?
If you got something to say, say it.
Anything happens to Huey it ain't gonna be a finger. I'll...
It's Cy... he's been shot.
Cy... Cy... Oh shit man... who did this to you. Was it the pigs?
N... N...... Not... Oh.
Motherfuckers...
Inspector Brimmer
Yeah, it's me.
Judge, hold on, is your phone safe?
Who fucking cares? You cops killed Cy. And before you bastards kill anyone else, I'll give you your fucking set up. That make you happy??!!
Judge, calm down.
I'm calm. I'm calm. You just shut the fuck up. And listen...
 What's up with you?
Nothing.
You got something on your mind... "brother."
Yeah, "brother" My best friend is stone dead.
Sorry man...
S'alright. I'm sorry too. Shit, I gotta take a leak... Pull over at that gas station.
It's going down... Right on time.
If you want gas my nephew...
 Where's your bathroom...
Out back.
Open the god damn register!!!!
How long can a piss take?
Hey... I got one for ya. Two brothers are taking a leak off the Bay Bridge. First one says, "Damn, this water's cold." Other one just smiles and goes, "Yeah and deep too."
What the fuck?
 Watch the faces Goddamit!! We want them recognizable...
Easy boy... Or I will blow you right away...
 We haven't done nothing! Why don't you fascist pigs stop harassing us?
Harassment my ass, pal. You just stuck up this station. We got a witness...
What kind of bullshit...
I'll go get the other one.
No!!! Get the bastards cuffed, I got him...
 It's me Brimmer. Get the fuck out of here.
Today's arrest exposes the Black Panthers for what they truly are... common criminals. Yes, we have a group of the so called revolutionaries in custody right now. Caught red handed robbing a local business. And as soon as our witness gives us a positive identification, we'll file charges of armed robbery with intent to kill...
Sir... was anybody hurt?
 I have no further comment.
I want it duly noted, that this operation was entirely under the auspices of the Oakland Police Department. The FBI doesn't have a monopoly on agents infiltrating enemy organizations, my friend. As I've said before, Agent Rodgers, we have things under control in our city...
Are you finished?
No I'm not. I'd like to say, frankly and off the record, that I resent the Bureau's presence here. "Advisory Basis" or not. And, once we get these boys put away and the Panthers permanently discredited, I'd appreciate it if you'd leave us to take care of our own. Now I'm finished.
Brimmer, what are you telling me?
He's blind chief. Couldn't I.D. his own mother.
 He just stands in for his nephew during lunch.
This cool the heat off you any?
I don't know.  But I'm sure I'll find out. Rose, you did me solid.
Unh... Unh Man... I don't take no money from friends that need help. Fuck no. What do you think I am a bum?
Not at all.  I'll catch you later.
Judge... I... I shoulda told you this before but... well... fuck...
What?
It was Sabu killed Cy.
Where is he?.
Ain't no one seen him.
Why didn't you tell me?
Didn't want folks to think I was a snitch. You know?
 Yeah man... I know.
 Shit... check this out.
 ...something is happening here...
But you don't know what it is Mr. Jones. See Dylan is hip. The part about the geeks getting the worst jobs, that's like us, man. Black folks always get given the lowest shit.
 Yeah man, but where's Judge?
 You know I think Brother Judge needs our support right now, not our suspicion (picking up paper off the press) This is beautiful man. Folks around here never read the truth like this before.
El Rage what's with all the Zulu shit?
We can no longer let the white media control our image. We gotta let the people know what we are about ourselves.
That's what our newspaper will do.
But lots of our people don't read, man. They need strong imagery to help them out.
Yeah... then shouldn't this be all of us together.
 Trust me Huey, this picture will be worth a thousand words. Now have you given any thought to that Peace and Freedom Party thing. They really want to hook up with us. Do a rally together. Hell it'd broaden our base of visibility.
Yeah, but aligning with white organizations. I'm not sure now's the time.
The time, my friend, is what Sartre called, "the moment the match is being put to the fuse." Question is, is the hand holding that match gonna be black or white.
...no full fledge alliance. But I think we should do a rally with them. Show that there's some common ground between Black and White. You all with that?  All right then Eldridge, set it up.
Hell No! We won't go! Hell No! We won't go!!!
Not long ago, we came to these steps to protest. We were four thousand then. Tonight we are ten thousand.
Thanks a lot Motherfucker, that blind man was real cute.
Ten thousand different voices. All unified, saying one thing. That you cannot have an imperialistic war abroad and social peace at home. So with that unity, that purpose in mind... Ladies and Gentlemen I give you the Minister of Defense of the Black Panther Party -- Huey Newton.
Thank you. The Black Panther Party is proud to be here tonight. Here in front of this monument to oppression both at home and abroad. Not far from here, Brother Bobby Seale is locked down.
 A victim of the tyranny we feel here at home.
That same tyranny is at work many miles from here. In Vietnam. Black men are dying there, white men are dying there. Yellow men are dying there. We're told they're dying in the name of freedom.  Freedom. Well, now if their blood's keeping us free. How come so many of us -- like Bobby -- are in jail. If they're dying so we can enjoy our rights, how come the police still kill us in the streets?
So, when you think about it. The question we have to ask is... Why should the Black man go fight the Yellow man for the White man? It's that simple. The answer's simple too.  We shouldn't!
The Black Panther Party is opposed to the war in Vietnam! We know our war is here. Against hard drugs in the community. Against unemployment. Against a system that beats a Black man in his home, then sends him to die in a foreign land. That my brothers and sisters, is our war.
 What the fuck?
 Brimmer! Could you come in here please?
Sit down, This concerns you too. (pulls out a Black Panther newspaper) I don't need to say that your department's handling of the Black Panthers -- particularly Inspector Brimmer's "undercover operation" has been a complete travesty.
Just hold on a god damn minute. I...
These are memos from the commissioner, the mayor and Hoover himself, putting the Black Panthers and their subversive activities under the full jurisdiction of the Bureau.
 Jesus...
As far as Mr. Hoover is concerned the worst has happened, the Panthers have unified with other organizations -- most likely sponsored by communists -- to undermine the war in Vietnam.  By doing so, they have quite simply guaranteed their own extinction.
Of course we welcome any cooperation the your department has to "offer..."
What's your name punk?
Five.
What?!?!?
Five!!
And I keep saying "Five" like the fifth amendment you know? And shit this cop is getting pissed. But there ain't much he can do... So... dig this, he gives me a ticket for littering, on account of the papers he ripped outta my hand.
 California law does not require the driver to leave a vehicle, unless he is being placed under arrest...
Huey...
I am not resisting arrest. Nor am I armed. Any use of force on your part is illegal...  according to California...
Hey... whatcha got...
 The pigs are going for Murder one...
Right with Bobby getting out, they try to put Huey in the gas chamber... Damn.
Please Huey stay alive
 Where's everybody?
We had over a hundred people, just on the "Free Huey" Defense Committee alone until we chose a lawyer.
Can he free Huey?
If anybody can, he's the man.
 Brothers the struggle has begun... We need allies and we need 'em fast. Eldridge?
I'm on it...
Black is beautiful/FREE HUEY!/Set our warrior free/FREE HUEY!/Black is beautiful/FREE HUEY/Set our warrior free...
We say that Huey P. Newton is a prisoner of war. Many people say that that's not true. Or that the Party is exaggerating. I think it's clear, it's crystal clear that the United States has declared war on Black people. She did that when she took the first black man from Africa.
Now of course, she never came out and said the words, "I declare war on Black people. She did not do that. Well now, the United States to this day has not declared war on Vietnam, but there is Vietnam. They did not declare war on North Korea but they fought in North Korea. And they did not declare war against the Indians. They just wiped them out.
So we must define our position... We are at war. Huey P. Newton, Minister of Defense, is our leader. He is in jail. He is a prisoner of war. We must get him by any means necessary. If we cannot get him, we must, we must retaliate. Period.
Man, we can't make enough of these things. We got movie stars calling up, asking how they can help. I tell you sister it's nation time...
Yeah I wish we didn't need no pins... Wish Huey was here right now...
 Me too...
You sure about that... brother?
Brothers!!! Sisters! Come here. This, you gotta see...
You all been working so much... you know. Me and some others thought you might be missing the home cooking...
Hey... you got any more of those...
Granted, the Free Huey thing has become a bit of a rallying cry for the left...
 Rallying cry, it's an insurrection. Seale, that god damned Cleaver, Where the hell do these guys come from?
Well... like they say, there's a Panther born every minute in the ghetto. Uh... we seem to have "underestimated" the support of the Black community. It's their power base...
Well, then we're going to take that power away from those bastards.
 You mean...
Yes, that's exactly what I mean. And Agent Rodgers?... This conversation never occurred.
Rodgers... this is no good...
Cut the crap, you've been taking the man's money for years. Now it's time you earned it.
 Gentlemen!!! Forgive me for keeping you.
Odd isn't it Chief Dorsett? No matter how much we try to deny it, we find ourselves on the same side of the coin. It's almost funny...
To be quite honest it turns my stomach.
Neither your stomach or your opinion matters here Dorsett... What matters is that Mr. Trafficante and the Bureau have come up with a solution to our Panther Problem. One might say...The Final Solution.
Well put. As you and Agent Rodgers know, my organization has moved into narcotics. It was decided that this product would be confined to the ghettos. However, you and your police department has made operations in Oakland impossible. I take delivery of shipments and they sit. I -- and my associates -- lose money. Vast sums of money. Now, you have some very large problems with the Black community.
More like a revolution. West Oakland's turning into hostile territory.
I assure you the pacifying properties of Heroin are quite remarkable. See, junkie's politics are different from yours and mine. For them the only Party's the next fix.
Dealing dope... And you want the department to turn a blind eye while you turn Oakland into a city of zombies.
Not the entire city, just one troublesome part.
And what if it spreads to the rest of the population?
Relax, Chief. That will never happen. I gotta little gypsy in me. Soon the moolies gonna be too busy -- we'll sell 'em a few guns too -- blowing each others brains out over the stuff to be fucking with protests. Now I've got the product. What I need is a center of operation and someone to oversee the movement of the product. Not one of my people but a native, someone inside the community.
I don't think that will be any problem...
You talk as if this thing's already been decided.
It has.
Glad to see you boys eat like that. No wonder either you're both looking like scarecrows. Don't sleep, don't eat, ain't no way to live...
It's good to be skinny, easier to run from fat cops. (his eye catching the TV) Hey what's that?
Oh no... Dr. King...
Oh lord, please god no. No.
They killed him. He never hurt nobody. They killed him...
That's right burn the mother down.
Hold on there, exactly what are you boys doing?
Sending a message... They shoot Dr. King... we burn them...
What good's burning our neighborhood down.
Brother... you best clean out your head, or we will do it for you.
Reverend's right, you burn the neighborhood, you're just doing the pig's work for him. And we sure as hell ain't gonna stand for that. Dig?
I dig. But how we gonna let 'em know we ain't gonna take this shit.
You know where Black Panther headquarters is? You come on down there, speak your mind, listen. Organize.
I don't know...
 Later for that... be there.
No more words!!! No more god damn words!! No more sitting, no more praying for the pig to stop killing us. Later for lying down. Later for waiting to get shot like dogs. Nonviolence has died in Memphis, died with Dr. King. We must retaliate. We've got the fucking guns, it's time to use them.
Off the pig man. Off the god damn pig.
Brother Eldridge... I hear you. But I disagree. And we both know Huey disagrees too. Yeah, we got the guns, but the Pigs got more. The Pig has got the National Guard. I'm not afraid to fight. But we aren't stupid either. We got to be smart, not angry.
Later for that...
 No man... later for you! What? We gonna forget Huey and his trial? Start killing pigs, start the revolution now. With our leader in jail? We do that and Huey's a dead man. We're all dead. No man, we stay cool.
What? You giving me orders now?
Just telling you what it is.
Fuck that. It's time to intensify the struggle. That is what it is.
 Fuck.
You got to sit on Eldridge...
Man, El-Rage is El-Rage. You know him.
Yeah, I do, but he's gotta cool it...
C'mon.
Papa E, we got to get out of here.
Take off your clothes.
What?
 Take 'em off. Pigs ain't gonna shoot an unarmed, naked man. Where they gonna say you hid a gun.
No man I can't.
Later for that. Just do it.
 Go on, get in that car fuckers, and don't try nothing.
I am not resisting arrest!!
He was going for this...
 Motherfuckers...
Little Bobby... Just a kid...
 They're hurting us, baby. Huey locked up. Bobby Seale running all over the country holding things together. Cy dead. Little Bobby... I don't recognize half the faces at meetings.
'Cept him...
Look... I gotta get on a plane tonight. Huey's trial's starting. I need you to make sure there's a strong Panther Presence there.
What about Cleaver? You got him out on bail, didn't you?
Yeah... but well, things are too hot. Eldridge and Kathleen...
 ...they're gonna disappear...
So you enjoy your little "vacation?"
I tell you, Vegas don't have much flavor. But it was alright. Good to get back to the neighborhood though.
That's what we wanted to talk to you about. We have a proposition for you. One that will make you the most powerful man in West Oakland...
 I'm all ears...
Hey... what the hell you doing?
Shut up. Just shut the fuck up.
Brimmer what's with you man?
 Twenty years asshole. Twenty years on the force. I've seen some fucked up stuff. Done some fucked up stuff...  But nothing like this...
Go! Run! Go on! Get the fuck out of here!!
What? So you can shoot me? Call it resisting arrest?
I ain't gonna shoot you Judge. Look... it's over. Just run away. Get out. Stay away from Oakland. Cause it's gone... it's gone.
Brimmer you're fucked up...
Yeah... I'm fucked up. You're fucked up. Government's fucked up. Whole country's fucked up. You got no idea what's going on here. This is bigger than you and me. We're just little tiny soldiers getting moved around on some big asshole's desk. The Panthers... fuck you're history... they killed you and you don't even know it.
Who's they?
 Drugs Judge, they're gonna flood West Oakland with dope. Jack you up and string you out like a two dollar whore. And while the community's shuffling for a fix, they're gonna snuff every Panther they can find.
Who? I mean besides the FBI?
I don't know. Except, it's one of you. Maybe not a Panther, but it's someone from the neighborhood. Judge. Look, just go. Get away. It's over. You lost.  We all lost.
Fuck that. Ain't nothing over.
Judge...
Rose?
 Yeah... Look man, what I gotta say. It's just you, me and the rats, right? Alright... well... Sabu's back.
Motherfuck... well then I got something to do.
No... wait, there's something else, something weird. I hear he's set up down at that warehouse on fifty deuce. He's talking big and living bigger.
God damn it's him. I gotta go.
Judge man. Watch yourself. Sabu's got juice now.
You don't even know it man, but you're a god damn hero.
No more brothers in jail Off the Pig! The pigs are gonna catch hell Off the Pig! Revolution has come Off the Pig! Time to pick up the gun Off the Pig!
Now you say that it was Huey Newton that opened fire without any provocation What makes you so sure? It was a dark night, there was a lot of confusion.
Well, sir I was there.
That's right you were.  He was there. He saw everything. And he is not on trial. He does not need to lie to save his life.  Your witness.
Thank you.  If it would please the court, I would like to introduce testimony of a new witness. One who is not on trial for his life and... one who was there also. I call Gene McKinney to the stand.
Objection, who is this man?
This is an eyewitness to the shooting. The passenger in Huey Newton's car.
Overruled Mr. Garry you may examine your witness.
Mr. McKinney, were you a passenger in the car on the night of October 28, 1967.
Yes sir I was.
And did you witness the shoot-out?
Yes sir, I did.
From what you saw, did Huey Newton start the shooting?
No sir he didn't.
Huh, well then...  did someone else start shooting?
I refuse to answer the question on the grounds it might incriminate me.
Did you shoot the officers in question?
Again I'll take the fifth amendment on that question.
That was Garry.  He says they're gonna come back with manslaughter.
What's that mean?
It means youngblood, Huey's out in less than two years. He ain't gonna get the chair. He might not be free yet, but brothers and sisters he is not going to die.
I gotta call Bobby...
Black Panther Party.
 Congratulations asshole. Huey got off, but we just got your boy Bobby Seale.
 Who the fuck is this?
 The tooth fairy. And I got a present for you. Guy who helped us get Bobby His name's Judge.
Fuck is up?!
Mothafucker! You just set Bobby Seale up to be kidnapped. They dragged him off to some bullshit conspiracy trial in Chicago. How much the pigs pay you for this one, Judge? (pulling out his gun and cocking it)
You got it wrong.
Let him go. And drop your piece.
Can't believe that rat bastard ain't going to the chair. That Newton turd should be taken out and shot.
How about a little target practice?
 You better just kill me Tyrone. And when Huey gets out, when Oakland's just wall to wall junkies, you tell him you blew away the only chance we all got. I'm sure he'll be real happy about that.
What are you saying?
The pigs are gonna start flooding us with dope. Huey wants us to stop them.
Bullshit...
Tyrone hold on...
Chickenshits? What you bring your buddies with you?
No man No!! Tyrone listen... we got to move man, they got a warehouse...
Shut the fuck up!!
Tyrone...
Oh shit Alma... you're...
I'm okay... listen to me...  Let's go with Judge, check it out.
What?!? Don't tell me you're buying this?
Yeah, I believe him. And you do too.
Alright, but no fucking around.
Those ain't cops.
And they sure ain't from the neighborhood. Figure Sabu's in there?
Yeah with a whole load of drugs. So, you trust me now?
Brother, I ain't got a choice...
Fuck was that?
Check the back.
 You alright?
Not really. Gimme the keys for the trunk.
 Stay here, watch this door. Anybody besides me and Judge steps out kill them.
There it is...
 Shut the motherfucker down. I'll find Sabu.
 You just did.
Drop the gun Panther man.
All your mighty militant bullshit, man you don't know what fucking time it is do you? Dig it (holding up a bag of COCAINE) this is power baby.
Sabu you sorry motherfucker...
Sorry? Not me not now. This is my time not yours. Black Panthers? Who the fuck are you. Promising everything to everyone. Well fuck that. I got mine... Now y'all get yours... brother.
You ain't my fucking brother!!
Damn straight.
Alma I told you to...
 Fuck that, we've got company...
Judge... hurry!
Hey, brother you got a match?
Motherfuckers...
 Look... You... take her and get the hell out of here. I'll keep 'em busy.
No...
 You gotta. You gotta stay alive. You know what they were trying to do here. You got the pigs dead to rights. It's like Huey said, you're more important than any of us.
We'll all get out of here together.
Later for that. I'm done either way...
Go...
Tyrone!!!
Power to the people.
 The community got the streetlight... finally. But the way I see it...
 The struggle continues...
