Brains! CLOSE ON the woman as she raises her hands and SCREAMS.
What's happening now?
The zombie is eating her head, Grandma.
That's not very nice. What's he doing that for?
Because he's a zombie. That's what they do.
Well he's going to ruin his dinner. I'm sure if they just bothered to sit down and talk it through it'd be a different story. Norman CHUCKLES, as if the idea is absurd, then winces as he hears his father shout from the kitchen. ParaNorman 2.
Norman! Didn't I tell you to take out the garbage?
Coming, Dad!
Tell him to turn up the thermostat too, will ya? My feet are like ice. Norman nods to her and shuffles over to the kitchen door.
Sandra smiles at her son as he makes his way silently to an overstuffed trash can as tall as he is.
Hi. Whatcha watching in there?
Sex and violence.
Oh. That's nice. Perry glares over as Norman wrestles with the garbage.
Can't you be like other kids your age and pitch a tent in the yard, or have a healthy interest in carpentry?
Perry...
I thought you said kids my age were too busy shoplifting and joyriding?
Norman! He hefts the bag onto the floor and ties it in a knot. ParaNorman 3.
Oh yeah, he's r-i-double p-e-d. Like, a seven pack at least.
Courtney, be nice.
Yeah, she totally doesn't deserve him. I mean, she's nice and I really like her, but she's a complete loser. Yeah, I know. Courtney slumps into a chair at the table, twisting a strand of gum out of her mouth with a finger. Norman returns inside and shuts the door, pausing a moment as if thinking something over.
Dad? Grandma says, "Can you turn up the heating?" Her feet are cold. The bubble Courtney is blowing POPS against her face, Perry rolls his eyes and GROANS, and Sandra pales.
Now, Perry...
How many times do we have to go through this, Son? Your grandmother is dead!
I know!
Then why do you keep on talking to her?
Because she talks back!
O-M-G, you are such a liar! ParaNorman 4.
I'm not making this up! I swear! She talks to me all the time!
Oh yeah? Prove it! Norman levels her a look that says "you asked for this".
She said it's not very ladylike to hide photos of the High School quarterback with his shirt off in your underwear drawer. Sandra and Perry raise their eyebrows.
I knew it! You've been sneaking around in my personal stuff!
No I haven't! Grandma told me!
You are the worst! Courtney, brimming with outrage, storms out of the kitchen, her ponytail wagging furiously behind her. Sandra kneels down beside Norman with a wearily sympathetic smile.
Norman, I know you and Grandma were very close, but we all have to move on. Grandma's in a better place now.
No she's not, she's in the living room. Perry throws his arms in the air, swaying on the chair.
Your grandmother was old and sick, and she died. That's all there is to it!
Perry, this is just part of the mourning process. ParaNorman 5.
Stop indulging him! I'm nothing if I'm not liberal, but that limp- wristed, hippie garbage needs to be nipped in the bud! Norman SIGHS and steps between his parents as they argue. He mutely heads out of the room.
This behavior might be okay with your side of the family, but I'm not putting up with it anymore! Not me!
Oh, not this again! PAN UP to find a light go on in Norman's bedroom window.
This isn't the West Coast, Sandra; people talk! They do!
He's just sensitive, Perry.
Oh please, "sensitive" is writing poetry and being lousy at team sports... not this! I won't have him turn out like that uncle of yours! If that crazy old tramp has been around here putting ideas in Norman's head...
Perry, no one's had anything to do with Uncle Prenderghast in years! I bet he doesn't even know what Norman looks like! Norman quietly closes the door, and the room goes black. ParaNorman 6.
Not much time, not much time... He pulls an old leather-bound book out from the mess, and traces a finger over a woodcut illustration on its cover; an ethereal woman lying beneath a cluster of stars. Wincing with pain, the man drops the book and clutches at his chest, COUGHING and GASPING horribly. CAMERA PANS to a wall covered in countless photographs, newspaper clippings and scrawled occult markings. It is a shrine of sorts; a madman's recondite genealogy project, and at its center is a photograph of Norman, posing with his family on vacation. ZOOM IN to the photograph, hurtling past the Babcocks and through dense trees further and further into a dark forest.
Good morning! Hey Bruce! How's it goin'? Not much. I'm kind of late for school. I need to go. Hi, nice to see you guys. Good morning. Sorry I gotta run. Excuse me. Pardon me. See ya. At one street corner, Norman bends over a gutter. He is watched curiously by a man retrieving his morning paper across the other side of the street. MAN'S POV - Norman crouches over the flattened remains of raccoon road kill.
Hey there little buddy! C'mere! He realizes he is being stared at and slowly turns to face the onlooker, then hurries away. Though no one else sees them, to Norman's eyes, a whole host of ghosts are meandering through the streets.
Yeah, good to see you! How you doin'? Hi Mrs Hardman. You look nice today. I like what you've done with your hair.
Does anyone smell burning?
Hey, peace, man.
Totally.
Sir, yes sir!
Yo Norman, you playin' hookie?
No no, I'm just late for school. Sorry, I gotta go.  How you doin'? ParaNorman 8.
Hey, how you doin'? A little further along Norman nods pleasantly to the ghost of a parachutist impaled in the branches of a roadside tree.
Hi! How's it hanging?
Ho ho! Haven't heard that one before. Well, it's a nice day.
Watch and learn. "Parking violation" is my middle name.
Really? I thought it was Rhona. They glance up disdainfully as Norman passes by. Clearly in this town Norman has something of a bad reputation.
Hey, ghost jerk! You know what? Norman turns to find textbook bully ALVIN, the only 6th grader in his class who shaves, looming over him. He is flanked by a couple of leering sycophants, one of whom wears a T-shirt emblazoned with "TEAM ALVIN". Norman SIGHS.
What do you want, Alvin?
Why don't you see some more ghosts, goober? ParaNorman 10.
Hey! Hey! Norman! Alvin points to a fly that has landed on the locker beside him. He swats it flat with his hand.
Talk to that. The kids around Alvin burst into LAUGHTER.
That is so Alvin! The bullies strut away, content in the psychological damage they've managed to inflict.
Loser!
That was good, right guys? Norman mutters as they leave, but not loud enough so as anyone might hear.
Flies don't talk. Across the hall, Neil continues to watch with sympathy, but he is already being hurried along by his friend SALMA, a nerdy Indian kid with braces.
Neil, come on. Let's go.
You stink of illiteracy!
Puritans were strict and devout settlers, who came here to build a home, a place without sin. What is it now Salma? Salma is holding her hand up. She looks like the Wicked Witch of the West. Even beneath green makeup and plastic warty nose, it is clear she is not best pleased.
Why is the witch always a hideous old crone with a pointy hat and a broomstick? I don't believe it's historically accurate, Mrs Henscher! Mrs Henscher's knuckles clench white around her script. She attempts an understanding smile, in the same way a shark might.
It's not supposed to be. It's supposed to sell postcards and key chains.
The founding fathers of Blithe Hollow discovered an evil witch amongst them...
No no, Norman, with gusto! Like this! Waving her arms theatrically, she bellows Norman's lines, milking every syllable for effect.
They put her on trial and hanged her!
But the vengeful witch cursed her accusers, seven of them in all, to die a horrible and gruesome death, and rise from their graves as the living dead; their souls doomed to an eternity of damnation!
Norman! Are you listening to me, boy? Norman is brought back to the real world with a start, and nods timidly from behind his scroll.
Sorry, Mrs Henscher.
So am I. Now, unless there's any other issues, let us resume... They put her on trial and hanged her! Neil turns excitedly to Norman.
Ooh! This is my moment! He shuffles toward Salma and swings his branch around, not realizing Alvin has slung the hangman's noose around Norman's neck. Norman is yanked off balance and staggers into Neil who keels over, rigid branch arms unable to stop his fall. He lands on top of Salma, her kicking legs sticking out from under him as though Dorothy's house had just landed on stage. The kids break into uncontrollable LAUGHTER. ParaNorman 13.
Boom, baby!
Sorry! Mrs Henscher flings her script into the air, her face beet red.
Oh, you useless bunch of... The school bell RINGS drowning out her howling voice.
Norman, wait up!
I keep telling you, Neil. I like to be alone.
So do I. Let's do it together! You shouldn't let them get you down. They always do stuff like that to me.
Why?
Because I'm fat. And my allergies make my eyes leak. And I sweat when I walk too fast. And I have a lunchbox with a kitten on it. And I have Irritable Bowel Syndrome. I guess there's a whole bunch of stuff.
Doesn't it bother you? ParaNorman 14.
Nah. You can't stop bullying, it's part of human nature. If you were bigger and more stupid, you'd probably be a bully too. It's called "survival of the thickest".
Psssst! The boys stop. It seems to be coming from the witch.
That statue just "pissst" at us! Wild-eyed Mr Prenderghast suddenly leaps in front of them, startling them as he staggers closer.
You know who I am?
The weird stinky old bum who lives up the hill?
 I was asking him.
Yes. I know. I was told not to talk to you. Sorry. Mr Prenderghast steps in front of Neil, leaning closer to Norman and whispering conspiratorially.
And you know why you're not supposed to talk to me? Norman tries to back away.
I can see ghosts too! And I know that's not all you've been seeing lately, is it? Bad omens? Things you can't quite explain? Strange faces peering through the veil? Norman's eyes widen further. ParaNorman 15.
And I'll bet no one told you about the witch's curse, did they?
Actually, we're learning about it in school..?
There's something you really need to know! This is the most important thing you will ever hear! The fate of everyone depends on it! Now listen close... The witch's curse is real, and you're the one who has to stop it! Mr Prenderghast grabs Norman's arm and leans closer.
You've gotta use your gift of talking to the dead! He breaks into a HACKING COUGH, face turning beet red and bloodshot eyes bulging.
Because if you don't the witch's ghost...
Leave him alone! An apple bounces off Mr Prenderghast's head. He turns to find Neil standing behind them on the path, lunchbox open in his hand providing leftover low-carb ammunition.
Don't make me throw this hummus! It's spicy! Mr Prenderghast thinks better of it and turns to flee the scene. He HISSES out of the side of his mouth at Norman. ParaNorman 16.
This ain't done with! You'll see it soon enough! Watch for the sign! As he hobbles away, Neil peers down the street after the old man.
Jeez, what a dirty old creep!
He's my uncle.
So is it true?
What? Norman just stares at him.
Can you see ghosts? Like, everywhere? All the time?
Uh, yeah?
Awesome! Do you think you can see my dog Bub? He was run over by an animal rescue van. Tragic and ironic. We buried him in the yard. Could you see him? Norman frowns disbelievingly, completely taken aback.
Maybe.
Sweet! Come on!
Neil? That you? ParaNorman 17.
Hey Mitch! We're gonna go play with the dead dog in the garden and we're not even gonna have to dig him up first! Mitch sits up. He's a strapping six-foot jock with tattooed biceps. The kind of guy who wears year-round flip-flops.
What'd you say? Mitch pulls his brother aside so as to exclude Norman, who stands awkwardly a little way away, surrounded by cheery lawn ornaments and ineptly manicured topiary.
Neil, isn't he that weird kid? Y'know, "Look at me, I talk to ghosts so people will pay attention to me." Mitch makes a goofy face and twitches farcically.
Can you stop doing that? It's kinda stupid.
Now listen to me, you don't need to be hanging out with weird people. That's a tip. Neil scowls at his brother.
Don't blow this for me, Mitch. This one's not weird. He talks to dead people. Neil has had enough and defiantly walks away from his brother.
He's around here somewhere...
No. My grandma told me it's usually people who still have stuff to figure out. Or sometimes it's the ones who died suddenly, or in a bad way. A BARK, and Norman turns to see a translucent puppy wagging its tail cheerfully, despite being chopped neatly into two halves.
Bub?
Is he there? How's he look? Bub BARKS, then his front half notices his tail and runs behind to sniff his own backside.
Uh... good. Bub bounds over to Neil, runs clean through his chubby calves, then doubles back for another try.
He's happy to see you.
Yeah, I guess. Neil bends over and kisses the air by his ankles, making a "coochy-coo" face.
Uh... that's not his chin. Neil stops mid-smooch, and quickly stands up. Norman watches as Neil picks up a stick and waves it in front of Bub's nose, even though he can't see him.
Go get it!
He can't fetch it, y'know. ParaNorman 19.
Yeah well, it's still fun. Good boy! Bring it back! Go get it, Bub! Good boy! CLOSE ON Norman as he watches Neil toss the stick back and forth across the garden. The stick lands near his feet and he bends down to pick it up.
Why don't you try?
`Cos I don't really, uh... You can go.
No, no, it's fun! Try it!
No I don't want to.
You throw it. It's really easy.
No it's okay. You can throw it.
No, c'mon, it's really fun.
Here. You go first.
No, you try it. I already went like fifty times.
Okay, what do I do?
You get the stick, you pull it back, and you throw it!
Neil? Sorry! As Norman runs over to him, Neil lies on his back GIGGLING, the stick held between his teeth.
I fetched it! ParaNorman 20.
Are you okay? CUT WIDE as the two kids enjoy their play, the sun above them breaking through the clouds in a bright blue sky.
I'll show him, and that scary little fat kid... He shakily rummages around the collected papers and trinkets, and pulls out the leather bound book, all the time GRUMBLING crazily.
Doesn't he realize we're running out of t... With a strangled CROAK he clutches dizzily at his chest, then keels over backwards, stiffly hitting the floor with a THUMP. Silence, then, a stream of spectral orbs sputter out of him, sculpting his shape in the air. With a GASP, Mr Prenderghast's corpse sucks the spirit back in, and he staggers back to his feet.
No! Not yet! Not yet! He CROAKS again, this time for real, CRASHING back down onto the ground. The ghostly shape re-emerges from the body. He blinks his eyes, looking around as if he's just been woken from a deep sleep, then down at the defunct body lying at his feet.
Aw, nuts. ParaNorman 21.
Great, now we'll never get to remember this moment. ANGLE ON STAGE as Salma, in full witch get-up, waves her hands theatrically at the other children.
I curse you accusers to die a horrible and gruesome death and rise from your graves as the living dead; your souls doomed to an eternity of damnation! The Pilgrims who aren't dying and rising from the dead begin to menace Salma with their farming implements, and begin a slow ominous chant.
Kill the witch! Kill the witch! Sandra nudges her husband and cheerily points toward the stage.
Gosh, aren't they adorable? Norman hears a HOOTING sound from above. An owl with big glowing eyes wheels down over the audience from the beams of the gymnasium. Norman glances around, wondering why no one else seems to notice as it glides low and alights in the papier mache branches on Neil's head. It turns to Norman and HOOTS. ParaNorman 22.
What?
Kill the witch! Kill the witch! The chanting seems to deepen and slur and the air grows dark and thick. The shapes of the audience and the kids beside him swim around, blurring like a finger pulled through oil paint. The ceiling disintegrates into clouds, which CRACKLE with lightning.
 Oh no! Not again! All around trees have sprouted out of nowhere, and through the darkness in the distance are occasional lights of small houses. This might be how this very spot looked three centuries ago.
Witch! We know you're out there! Norman stands on a twig which, naturally, CRACKS loudly, and the figure turns around and points at him.
There!
No!
Witch. More figures emerge from out of the darkness, wielding hayforks. They SHOUT threateningly and, as one man, surge toward him. Norman turns and runs. The trees around him are shifting, but there's no wind blowing the branches. Limbs GROAN as they twist, bearing down on him like ragged talons trying to stop his escape. Soon he can run no further, the way ahead tangled up into a wall of thorny fingers. ParaNorman 23.
The dead are coming! Norman GASPS and tries to push himself away, but the pursuing figures are drawing closer, and there's no escape. A familiar voice whispers out of nowhere.
Hey buddy! Are you okay? Norman turns around to find the knothole is now Neil's face, bulging out of the side of the tree with a look of concern. This is the last straw, and Norman SCREAMS.
Norman!
Did he say the dead are coming?
Everyone jumps as Norman abruptly sits up, eyes wild.
The tree told me! ParaNorman 24.
This is where it stops! It's one thing being a mental case in front of your family, but not the whole freaking town! There's not gonna be any more talking to ghosts, or grandmas, or, or... what is it now?
I think it's trees.
You're grounded! You hear me? Perry pulls the car up in the Babcock's drive and gruffly climbs out of the car.
This is ridiculous. I wish everyone could see what I see! I didn't ask to be born this way! Perry mutters as he slams his door shut.
Funny, neither did we. Norman catches the remark and feels it hard in his gut. His mother hears it too, and leans over her seat with a look of sympathy. A beat as she sees the pain in her son's face.
Y'know, sometimes people say things that seem mean, but they do it because they're afraid.
He's my dad. He shouldn't be afraid of me. ParaNorman 25.
He's not afraid of you. He's afraid for you. Sadly, Norman climbs out of the car.
Norman stands at the bottom of the school steps, trying to prepare himself for what he knows is going to be a bad day. He steels himself, and SIGHS.
Look! It's AbNorman!
What'd the tree tell you today, Norman?
Are the dead coming soon, Norman?
An overhead bulb casts a dim light over chipped wall tiles and yellowed ceramic sinks with leaky faucets. The door opens and Norman hurries inside, a number of voices still SHOUTING behind him. He shuts the door, cutting them off, and leans against it, taking a breath. He heads over to the first stall. The door is locked, so he takes the next one. CLOSE ON Alvin, sitting on the toilet in the next stall scribbling obscenities on the wall to pass the time. He pauses as he hears the lid drop next door, then resumes his vandalism. Norman sits on the lid of the toilet, pulling his knees up under his chin feeling sorry for himself. ParaNorman 26.
You died?!
Yeah, but I got unfinished business here!
Ew! Couldn't you use another stall?
My ghost isn't going anywhere until I pass on my duty to another! And that would be you!
Me? No, you must have it wrong!
Oh it's you all right! I've been holding back the witch's curse for years, but now I'm dead. It has to be you!
But I... I don't know what any of it means! ParaNorman 27.
It means the past is coming back to haunt you! Time is running out! The anniversary of the witch's death is tonight. Her ghost is going to wake up, and when she does she'll raise the dead! You gotta keep her in her grave! The toilet paper on the ground twists up beneath Norman's feet, sculpting skull faces and clutching hands that reach for him as he shrinks back.
But I'm just a kid! How am I supposed to stop it? In an instant the air and trees around him are eaten away, the school bathroom reappearing through the holes.
Read from the book at the spot the witch was buried!
What book?
The one in my hands! Norman looks at the ghost's wispy hands.
Not these hands, my other hands! The me that's at home in my study starting to smell a little funny! Norman looks sick and overwhelmed, but the ghost doesn't let up, swirling right up to his face.
Get the book and read from it! Before the sun sets tonight!
But this is crazy!
Do I look crazy to you? Norman pauses a beat. Mr Prenderghast is floating upside down, various bits of bathroom detritus orbiting around him. A piece of toilet paper dangles off his nose. ParaNorman 28.
Tell me you'll do this!
Swear!
Y-you mean like the "f" word?
I mean promise!
Okay, okay, I promise...
That'll do! Mr Prenderghast's ghost begins to disappear, bubbling and melting at the edges like a burning photograph.
No! Mr Prenderghast, wait! Alvin, hearing only Norman's voice, gingerly peeks around the corner of his stall.
Sorry kid, I'm done here! I'm free! I'm finally free!
Wait! No, you can't leave now! Please! I don't understand. Mr Prenderghast hangs in the air a moment, face scrunched up as he awaits his release, CACKLING crazily. The ghost explodes into a million particles of light, blowing open the stall door and catapulting Alvin backwards across the room. The mirrors behind him crack and the light bulb shatters. From the floor, Alvin groggily looks up and sees Norman framed in the stall with the door hanging off its hinges. He reaches over and flushes the toilet.
Uh... yeah. You might want to give that a few minutes. He grabs his bag and runs out of the room. ParaNorman 29.
Norman? Alvin tears around the corner in pursuit, but Neil stands in his way, waving his arms indignantly.
Hey! What's the big deal?
Don't get your bra in a twist, fat boy, this has nothing to do with you! Keep out of my way!
Or what?
Or I'll punch you in the boobs!
I don't have boobs. These are pectorals! Alvin jabs him in the chest.
Ow! My boobs! Neil swiftly steps aside. Alvin reaches the door to see Norman disappearing along the path as fast as he can. Alvin YELLS after him.
You're dead, freakshow! Do you hear me? D-E-D! DEAD! You're gonna be so dead you're gonna have to talk to yourself when you're dead!
I really don't think we should be leaving him.
Perry, you promised me a meal that someone else microwaved. ParaNorman 30.
He's probably up there right now fiddling with his ouija, or his orbs, or whatever it is he's got up there. This is not good.
His cell phone BEEPS from his pocket, giving him a start. He takes it out and reads a text; "COME TO THE WINDOW". Norman cautiously walks over and peers around the edge of the window frame. A figure stands motionless in the yard below, sheets of laundry billowing off the clothes line beside it. It stares up at Norman through the blank eye holes of a hockey mask. Norman GASPS and jumps back. With a frown, he re-emerges and opens the window. The figure lifts the mask, and Neil beams out from underneath, waving excitedly.
You wanna play some hockey? Norman SIGHS.
I've kinda got other things on my mind right now. Neil looks a little uncomfortable.
Is it all that walking dead stuff again?
Mr Prenderghast appeared to me in the bathroom!
Ew. ParaNorman 31.
No, his spirit! He says the witch's curse is real and I have to go up to the old graveyard to stop it! Before the sun sets tonight! Neil shifts uneasily as he processes.
So you wanna come play a bit later?
Didn't you hear what I just said?!
Yeah, but I thought my idea was less likely to get us eaten. Norman knows he's on his own in this.
Just go home, Neil. I'm better off on my own anyway.
But...
Go home! Norman reaches up and closes the window. Neil's shoulders sag and he turns away. Across the room, his Grandma materializes, and squints her eyes through the window as Neil awkwardly pulls himself over the garden fence.
Jeez, who rattled your chains?
No one. Norman isn't in the mood for any more discussion.
Dad says I'm not supposed to talk to you any more, Grandma.
Jackass. If I were a poltergeist I'd throw something at his head. Y'know, by rights I'm supposed to be frolicking in paradise with your grandfather, but I'm not. ParaNorman 32.
So why did you stay?
I was never one for frolicking. I'll bet there's no cable or canasta up there either. Besides, I promised I'd always look out for you. She smiles, floating in a sitting position at the end of Norman's bed. She bobs gently, like a balloon. For a second, this seems to comfort Norman, but then another thought crosses his mind.
So it's your... duty?
In a manner of speaking...
And you'd do it no matter what?
Of course.
Even if it was something really scary... Grandma eyes him curiously.
There's nothing wrong with being scared Norman, so long as you don't let it change who you are. Norman thinks this over, then smiles up at her again. She goes to rub his head affectionately, but her ghost hand just passes right through his spiky hair. She gives him a wink, and drifts away through the wall. He is still scared, but now determined too. He steels himself and grabs his jacket from his bed.
So I said to her, "Girl, come back and talk to me when your basket toss gets twelve thousand hits on YouTube!" Yeah, no, I said that.  Yeah, I'm stuck on lame patrol. Tonight's gonna be a total yawn. From downstairs, a door SLAMS. Courtney frowns, puts her hand over the phone and shouts out.
Norman?!
You better not be sneaking out you little weirdo!
Hello? Mr Prenderghast? Motes of dust float around Norman as he moves slowly toward a door, slightly ajar, muttering to himself. He quietly makes his way past all manner of objects that epitomize the state of Mr Prenderghast's mind; a mannequin in a shopping cart, a pile of broken typewriters, a suspended bag of spoons, a closet full of identically soiled hobo suits, a Nordic track...
CLOSE ON Norman's face as he swallows nervously and steps closer to the body. He gingerly takes hold of the book and gives a gentle tug. It holds fast in the rigor mortis grasp. He tugs harder, shaking the book repeatedly, the corpse shaking with it.
Let go! Norman spends several strenuous moments dragging the body across the floorboards, Mr Prenderghast's head glancing off table legs and smacking repeatedly against the floorboards, as Norman tries to wrestle the book free. With a final yank the book pulls loose and, GASPING, Norman grips the book to his chest and runs to the door.
Norman pushes through the thick bushes into a secluded plot of land behind the slab with seven gravestones sticking out from the undergrowth.
This is it! The sun continues its descent, casting an ever lengthening shadow of treetops across the graveyard.
Read from the book, stop the curse, go home and pretend this never happened. Norman steels himself, opens the book and starts to read.
"Once upon a time, in a far-off land there lived a king and queen in a magnificent castle..." He pauses, confused by what he's reading.
What? A fairy... tale...? A hand reaches over his shoulder from nowhere, whipping the book out of his grasp. He spins around to find Alvin standing behind him.
What ya got there, Geekula? Norman launches himself at the book, but Alvin holds him back at arm's length.
Give it back!
Can't wait to see everybody's faces when they hear about this one! ParaNorman 36.
No, don't! Alvin!
Hey! Nobody makes me miss out on a possible date with a girl that almost had some interest in talking to me. Yeah? Thought so! You got nothin' to say!
Uh-oh.
Dang straight "uh-oh". That's what happens when Alvin gets around here. Uh-oh is that Alvin? Uh-oh Alvin's gonna make me run home to mommy. As Norman twists and wrestles against the bully the turbulent clouds in the sky above them twist and coalesce into the vague semblance of a huge grinning face. The face of a witch. There is an enormous RUMBLE and a flash of lightning silhouettes the boys.
Uh-oh. What is that? The wind has picked up, HOWLING through the gravestones. Norman looks at the face leering out of the clouds.
It's her! Another violent CRACK of thunder and flash of light, and the wind instantly cuts out. The boys stand stock still. Reaching down like a colossal arm, a great plume of cloud spirals over the cemetery, enveloping the tumbledown chapel and seeping around the gravestones. Fingers of murky fog slither across the ground, occasionally pausing and hanging in the air as though sniffing it. There is something eerily playful in the movement of the tendrils. The boys are jolted as an awful high pitched SCREAM blows through the graveyard like a shockwave, pulsing through the fog like a heartbeat. Norman and Alvin cover their ears and cower as the fog suddenly rears up like a claw and fiercely gouges into the earth in front of the boys. ParaNorman 37.
What's that sound? Norman watches, horrified, as the wet earth atop one of the graves splits and a skeletal hand bursts through! Norman watches as more graves bulge and break open and mud-encrusted shapes begin to emerge through the earth. The air is filled with anguished MOANING, the glowing fog dancing and whirling about the hatching figures. The two boys are rooted to the spot, mouths hanging open. CLOSE ON one of the figures crawling out of the ground into a patch of moonlight. Ragged and rotten it wears the mud-encrusted clothes of a colonial Puritan. It stares down at its hands, almost in disbelief, then lifts its face up to the sky and lets out a HOWL. Thunder that sounds like deep and abysmal LAUGHTER echoes through the turbulent clouds. The boys find themselves backed up against another headstone, this one engraved with the name "JUDGE HOPKINS". They leap aside as the ground swells beneath their feet, and the DEAD JUDGE punches through the dirt, bolt upright. His face wears a rictus grin and he looms over the boys like the Grim Reaper in a powdered wig. He tilts his head curiously when he sees the book in Alvin's hand, and HISSES through yellowed teeth. Norman makes a last ditch attempt at reading the book as the Dead Judge approaches, the other zombies gathering behind him.
Once upon a time in a far-off... Once upon a... In a...
Make it stop right now, please!
It's not working! The Dead Judge gives a hideous GROWL, but Norman frowns, confused, because he can hear words.
Norman? What are you doing? I think I peed my pants! Survival instincts finally kick in and Alvin makes a run for it, scrambling through the graves toward the gate.
Wait! Norman follows, leapfrogging over headstones.
Neil! Will you get the door?
I'm busy!
Are you freeze-framing Mom's aerobics DVD again? ANGLE ON TV, with a still image of a Lycra-clad instructor bending over. Neil quickly turns it off.
No! The doorbell RINGS again.
Neil! Would it kill you to get off your butt and answer the door?
I'm gonna kill them. She impatiently leans down to push open the mail slot.
I know you're in there! Slumber party's over, dorks! The door opens and she finds herself face to navel with Mitch, out of the shower with a towel around his waist. ParaNorman 39.
Um, can I help you?
 Hell yeah. Courtney catches herself and quickly affects a LAUGH.
Sorry to bug you so late, but does, erm...  ...Neil live here?
Yeah, he's my brother.
Oh wow! That's great! Your brother and my brother are like best friends! I'm Courtney. She tries to regain her composure as Mitch turns away.
Hey Neil! You come here a minute? There's a girl asking for you. Neil's face emerges dubiously from a room down the hall. Courtney flashes her widest fake grin and puts on a high pitched sing-song voice.
Hey there! How ya doin'... little guy...
Neil?
Yeah, Neil. Do you know where Norman is? He kinda disappeared.
Oh no...
Whoa, Neil! Better start talking, buddy. ParaNorman 40.
I didn't really think he was serious about going up to the old graveyard on his own!
So Norman!
Oh, man. That place is bad news! Total slasher movie vibe! Why'd he go up there?
I don't know. Maybe we should go look for him.
I told you he was trouble.
No, it's fine. He sucks. But I really gotta make sure he doesn't die or anything tonight. Will you help me? Please? Mitch gets an eyeful of her best damsel in distress act, then SIGHS.
Okay... I guess I should go get some clothes on. Courtney gives a disappointed WHINE as he heads off down the hall, shoving Neil's head as he goes.
Uh, is Norman in trouble?
Are they gonna try to eat our brains?!
I think you'll be safe.
Oh, thank God! ParaNorman 41.
I don't get it! Why didn't it work? He opens the book and leafs through page after page of ornate calligraphy and woodcut illustrations.
"The Story of Sleeping Beauty". This doesn't make any sense! His mind racing, Norman heads off along the hallway.
Wait! Where are you going?
Mr Prenderghast, I don't understand! Tell me what to do!
Dude, what are you doing?
 He told me to read from the book to stop the curse! I thought it was a spell or something, but... Norman narrows his eyes as he sees Mr Prenderghast's desk, still strewn with pictures and newspaper clippings. He hurries over and begins rummaging through the mess, scattering papers across the floor.
Come on! There has to be something...
I really need to get home! I've got like a seriously early curfew.
My mom gets really upset when I'm not... Something CLUNKS loudly from down the hall, sending Alvin into a desperate babbling panic.
We gotta defend ourselves! We gotta shoot them in the head with like silver stakes or something! I'm way too awesome to get eaten! Norman, are you listening to me? You really have to do something! Norman uncovers a couple of faded photographs of the old graveyard. One is of the seven tombstones, the other is of the stone marker, which reads "HERE LIES BURIED THE
Seven victims... Frowning, Norman glances up and sees a page from an old book tacked to the wall. It is an illustration of a hideous old crone, cackling evilly. Another THUMP from down the hall. Norman looks again from the photographs in his hand to the image of the old witch. There's something he's not seeing... He looks at the pictures in front of him. Graves. Jurors. Witch.
Seven graves.
I was reading the book in the wrong place! Down the hallway, another loud THUMP.
Hide! ParaNorman 43.
Come on!
And she said I could totally consider a career in formation swimming. But I was like, "I wanna do something that helps people less fortunate than me", thank you very much, y'know, like the poor or people who are like dying or ugly or something, `cuz I really think that ecology and world peace are like totally important today. Do you use free weights? Your deltoids are huge.
I've never used deltoids in my life, I swear. You can test me. Neil lies back in his seat, eyes rolling.
Kill me now.
Thank you for doing this Mitch. He means an awful lot to me. I love him like he was a brother.
He is your brother. Courtney counters the backseat barbs by smiling demurely, but Mitch's attention has been drawn by something else.
Whoa! Look at that sky! ParaNorman 45.
Look out! Mitch slams on the breaks, twisting the wheel.
Oh no!
That was Norman! Shaken, Mitch realizes another figure is looming out of the darkness in front of them. He slams on the brakes again, but too late. The tall dirty-looking figure stands stock still as the van plows straight into him. Dust flies up from the wheels of the van as it skids to an eventual stop in the center of the road.
Is everyone okay? Courtney and Neil answer in unison, both of them upside down in their seats with their legs sticking up in the air.
No! No! Mitch, trying to stay calm, looks in his rear-view mirror and sees a prone shape on the ground some yards back. ParaNorman 46.
Er... hello, sir? He hunkers down and is immediately hit by the stench. A mud-encrusted face stares up at him. ANGLE ON the van, as Courtney leans her head out.
Is he dead or what?
I... I don't know! He's not moving! The figure's head lets out a faint GASP.
He's still breathing! Mitch reaches out to gently lift the figure's head but as he does, there is a CRUNCH and it comes off in his hands.
So he's okay?
Uh... not exactly.
What? What did you just say? Mitch looks from the head back to the van, then at the head again. He licks his lips nervously as he thinks.
Does anyone know CPR? Further down the road, Norman runs back toward the van, Alvin still in tow. He sees Mitch ahead of him, getting dizzily to his feet, still holding the head.
Run! The head in Mitch's hands suddenly GASPS again, opening its mouth. Mitch SHRIEKS as the headless figure on the road sits up and reaches out its arms. Mitch drop kicks it like a football. It flies, WAILING, into the bushes. ParaNorman 47.
Did you see that?
That was insane!
I know, right? I kicked that like a hundred yards!
Norman, what just happened?!
Zombies! I swear, okay? We saw them burst out of their graves! For real! He realizes Mitch and Courtney are staring at him, and tries to disguise his raw panic with nonchalance.
Sorry, who are you?
I'm Alvin. I'm in his class. Norman, not so easily distracted from the problem at hand as the others, glances uneasily through the window. NORMAN'S POV - The zombies lurch arthritically toward the van, GROANING and GURGLING.
Uh, guys... maybe we should actually drive away now.
Oh, right. ParaNorman 48.
A beat as the smoke clears. The soot-covered zombies SPLUTTER as they cough up what's left of their lungs. They turn from one to the other, awaiting direction from their leader. But the Dead Judge is nowhere to be seen. A zombie points down the winding road where the woods eventually thin out into leafy suburban drives. The ragged shape of the Judge is clinging to the back of the van, thrashing around and WAILING as it picks up speed. The zombies quietly watch until the van moves out of sight behind the trees, then turn their attention to the lights of the town center below them. They weigh up their options and, MOANING, shuffle toward civilization.
Pesky kids with their cell phones burning up the oh-zone, that's what this is! She finishes her shake and throws the non-recyclable cup into the bushes. Mitch's van shoots past at high speed in a cloud of dust.
What the..? Hooper watches the van tear away, the dark shape of the Dead Judge visibly clinging to the back doors, his voluminous cape flapping out behind him like a windsock.
I just knew something like this was going to happen tonight!
You did? Wow, `cos that zombie bit really threw me. Courtney turns in her seat and glares at her brother.
Why d'you have to go and get everyone involved in all your weird stuff?!
Well, you weren't supposed to follow me, were you?
Sorry. My fault. When I'm nervous I get mouth diarrhoea.
Ha ha! Diarrhoea!
Oh my gosh, I think I'm having an aneurism! This is so typical of you!
You don't understand! I'm the only one who can stop this, Courtney!
Oh, I understand! I understand that this is all getting completely out of... The van's sunroof is suddenly ripped open, and the Dead Judge's arm reaches down into the vehicle, clawing inches above Courtney's head.
The Dead Judge leans further into the van, MOANING horribly. He seems to have his sights set on Norman, and reaches one arm down toward Norman and the book peeking out of his shoulder bag. Norman shrinks back as the zombie GROANS horribly. ParaNorman 50.
Whaddawedo? Whaddawedo? Mitch?!
I don't know! I don't know!
You're the oldest!
Not mentally! Mitch hears a SIREN wail out behind him, and looks in his mirror to see the flashing light of Hooper's bike.
Oh great. The cops. Hooper pulls level with the passenger seat window, waving angrily.
Pull over the vehicle! The Dead Judge leans further into the van, Neil hanging off him like a pendulum.
Norman! How do we stop them?! Norman looks again at the book in his hands.
I'm supposed to read from the book at the witch's grave!
We've got to go back to the graveyard?
She wasn't buried with the others. I don't know where else to look...
Well you better think of something quick! Norman wracks his brain.
I have an idea! ParaNorman 51.
So Norman, let me get this straight; you guys all go on this big supernatural adventure and you're calling me in the middle of the night because you need someone to help you do your homework?
Uh... yeah.
The van lurches, flipping the Judge up and over the front of the vehicle, planting his face with a SQUELCH against the windscreen.
Mitch, do something! Mitch flicks on the windscreen wipers, which wipe the zombie's rotten flesh from side to side across the glass. Mitch and Courtney's eyes follow the Judge's movements from side to side. ParaNorman 52.
Salma! We need to find out where the witch is buried! I went to the old graveyard but her grave wasn't there!
Well, duh. People found guilty of witchcraft weren't considered people anymore. Norman, your witch was buried someplace else... in an unmarked grave!
Salma! Please! Hurry! Y'know, I would Google this myself if there wasn't a 300 year old dead guy trying to rip my face off! With a SIGH, Salma types at her computer.
Okay. It says here she was tried in the old Town Hall on Main Street. There may be a record of her execution and burial in their archives. ParaNorman 53.
Quick! She said go to the Town Hall!
Close on his heels, Hooper swerves her bike around in pursuit.
A little way behind, Hooper careens precariously in the van's wake.
Alvin lifts his face tentatively over the edge of the back seat to see what's going on. The zombie arm plants him in the eye, sending both sprawling against the floor. Alvin SQUEALS as the arm snakes around his neck into a bizarre approximation of a wrestling hold. ParaNorman 54.
I really think it might help if you tried to see things from his point of view.
I don't want to.
Perry, not believing in the Afterlife is like not believing in Astrology.
I have no idea what you're talking about. Seriously, where did you learn that?
Calm down. Perry rolls his eyes and GROANS.
Scattering lawn ornaments, plastic garden toys and deck furniture, Hooper rides directly up a kids' slide, shooting high up into the air like a rocket. ParaNorman 55.
Moments later, the Babcocks' station wagon pulls around the corner.
Delinquent drivers! Where are the police when you need them? Hooper's bike hurtles through the air and bounces off the hood of the station wagon with a CRUNCH. Before Perry can react he is buried under the mass of Sheriff Hooper, dropping like a meteorite onto his head.
The zombie lunges toward the startled kids, and MOANS. Mitch turns his attention back to the road ahead, but too late, and he YELLS as green-faced Mrs Henscher runs SQUEALING into the van's headlights. Mitch throws all his weight onto the wheel, tires SCREAMING as the van misses Henscher by inches. The violence of the turn flings the Dead Judge backwards like a slingshot, disappearing out of the doors and shattering into a dozen pieces as he SMASHES into the hard road.
Oh my gosh! I'm gonna be sick!
Oh, I broke a nail! As Alvin climbs out, he gingerly holds up the Judge's arm, as if it were a dead animal, and dangles it limply in front of his face.
Yeah! Alvin the zombie slayer! I got you... The hand suddenly bends back on itself, slaps him on the face, and as he SQUEALS it drops to the ground and skitters away into the shadows. Mitch sizes up what's left of his van, and bids a tearful farewell.
Uh oh. C'mon!
Oh yeah! Neil HUMS his very own action movie score as he runs to follow Norman out of the parking lot. ParaNorman 57.
Perfect. Now the geeks are in charge. The kids make toward the parking lot exit.
See! I told you! Zombies! It's the witch's curse! Everyone in the street freezes in place, wide-eyed. Someone GASPS.
Mama?
What? A couple of the zombies exchange glances, waiting for the other shoe to drop.
What should we do? Barely skipping a beat, the townsfolk shift seamlessly from shock and awe to bullish aggression. Crystal pulls a pump-action shotgun from somewhere about her person and scowls menacingly.
Kill them in the head! Within seconds, the seedy-looking townsfolk have armed themselves with pool cues, mops, toilet plungers and any other household implements that can be waved threateningly, and the mob advances on the group of quivering zombies.
Hurry! This way! Norman leads the way, but stops dead as they run headlong into a scene of zombie invasion mayhem. Townsfolk fill the streets, SHOUTING and acting generally mob-like. One or two of them have even got hold of burning torches from somewhere. It's apocalyptic chaos. The fat woman from the Drive-Thru runs past SCREAMING, her face and T-shirt covered in blood-red ketchup.
Oh, this is awful! The zombies are, like, eating everyone! Norman points beyond the bedlam to the dark shape of the Old Town Hall in the plaza.
C'mon! They skirt around the edge of Main Street, avoiding flying bottles and limbs as best they can. Following the noise, the Judge staggers along some way behind. He surveys the scene as he emerges, his featureless face doing a nevertheless effective job of expressing horrified shock. After a moment, he comes to his senses, and spies the kids in the distance. A look of resolve crosses his face, turning quickly to surprise as a SHOT rings out nearby. The Judge looks down to a large hole blown through his midriff. Framed within it is Crystal, several feet away, rifle smoking. He looks up again, weighs up his chances, then lets out a ROAR of retreat to his beleaguered companions before running off into the shadows. Those zombies who haven't already tried to run for cover manage to extricate themselves from the frenzy and follow the Judge's CRY, some of them breaking into a sprint.
Is everyone alright? Nobody got bitten? Neil flops down heavily against the statue, panting and holding his mouth.
Does anyone know how to pick a lock? Everyone immediately looks at Alvin.
Sure. Picking locks is my thing. Alvin walks over to a notice board beside the door, upon which is a poster for a "CRIME PREVENTION SEMINAR". He yanks it out of the ground, hefts it through the window, then reaches through to unfasten the door latch.
Boom.
This is it! ParaNorman 61.
This is?
Now we can find out where the witch was buried! Norman pushes his shoulder against the door and steps inside.
Uh-oh. Courtney follows, faking enthusiasm.
Great! I'm super psyched! This is turning into the most fun night ever! The overhead light clicks on as Alvin steps into the room behind her and GROANS.
Man. Zombies take over the world and we lock ourselves in a library. Are you kidding me? There's an adult video store just across the street! Neil is more optimistic, and brightly makes his way over to a shelf, and pulls down a slim ledger.
This'll be a piece of cake, you'll see. He pauses, and frowns, squinting up his eyes as he reads aloud, very slowly.
Page... One... Okay, page one. Mitch hefts a particularly heavy box file off a shelf. He seems to read the filing notes written across its front, then ignores them and begins curling it like a dumbbell. ParaNorman 62.
I really hate these places. Norman sizes up the masses of documents all around them, face panicked. It would take days to go through them all.
Come on! No, that's not it. Time is running out!
Ain't room for no more zombies in this town! Standing behind him, Teddy agrees with a slack-jawed
Yeah.
Would've been a quiet night too, if it hadn't been for those meddling kids. Huh! As Perry and Sandra exchange uneasy glances, Hooper suddenly points through the windshield to the riot in progress on Main Street.
Sweet baby jinkies!
What do you think you're doing, firing at civilians? That is for the police to do!
It's okay Sheriff, we've only been shooting at the dead ones! It's the living dead, come to take us all to Hell! We gotta stop them before they get away!
The Dead Judge looks up at the sky. The turgid supernatural storm RUMBLES closer, pressing down upon the nearby rooftops. The Judge motions to the other zombies to hurry, and grabs hold of the Town Hall's side door. He rips it open, and furtively motions the zombies to file inside.
Move along now people, there isn't anything to see here! The townsfolk around her refuse to be allayed by this. Perry and Sandra have emerged dubiously out of their car and watch from the periphery, utterly bewildered. Mrs Henscher, newly arrived and wearing her avocado face mask like war paint, shakes her shotgun and points down the street.
I saw them! I saw them! The zombies are in the Town Hall! The information sweeps across the crowd like wildfire. Several faces turn to Henscher, who is pleased to have an engaged audience and hams it up shamelessly, coming on like Braveheart in curlers. ParaNorman 64.
Cry "Havoc!" and let slip the dogs of war! The faces around her don't react; waiting patiently for a clearer translation.
Let's rip `em apart! Mrs Henscher points the crowd toward the Town Hall. Despite Hooper's protests, the townsfolk are on lynch mob auto pilot and surge like a force of nature along the Main Street toward the Town Hall plaza.
We're not going to find it in here, Norman! This is useless!
Yeah, I know, and it's also really boring.
I thought I was driving the van. No one told me I was gonna have to do this other dumb stuff.
If I'd known there was so much reading involved, I would have brought a completely different group of people who hate me. Neil suddenly YELLS out victoriously. Everyone turns to him, hardly believing he might have found the answer. He waves a book triumphantly above his head and grins at everyone.
Yes! Book number one! Finished! That is right, twenty six pages, oh yeah! Everyone GROANS and turns back to their bickering. ParaNorman 65.
I can't believe this is your plan! I'm gonna get bitten and start eating peoples' brains! I'm supposed to be Vegan! Mitch suddenly SHOUTS out from the doorway.
Guys! There's something moving out there! I think it's the zombies!
Oh, no it's not. It's just grown- ups.
That sound. Y'know what that is? That's not awesome... things...
Guys, come on!
Just give it up, weiner!
We have to keep trying! ParaNorman 66.
We tried and look what happened!
You never listen! No one ever listens! I'm scared too, but I've still gotta do this.
I do too listen! And whatever it was you just said, it's not working! You think you're going to go out there and do your talking to the dead thing and this is all going to be okay? What are you going to do, ask the zombies not to eat you?
I should've known you wouldn't understand! No one ever does!
Norman, you need to stop all this weird stuff and start living in the real world!
Everyone in the real world thinks I'm a freak! And you know what, maybe they're right, maybe I am a freak! But I never asked for your help... just go! Get out! Courtney, Mitch and Alvin back off a half step as Norman advances on them.
Jeez, that was dramatic. Courtney shoots him a look as if she's about to fight back, then shakes her head and shoves her way through the door. She turns to go, snapping at the other kids behind her.
C'mon! ParaNorman 67.
I'm not going anywhere. You can't make me. Mitch shrugs and picks his brother up, scooping him under one arm and carrying him out the door.
Dude, you're really heavy.
I'm not speaking to you. You can't make me. Norman watches the doors shut behind them, and his anger begins to ebb. Alone in the archive room, he slumps to his knees feeling useless and frustrated.
Um, excuse me? Hello? Unmistakably living hands and arms suddenly SMASH through the barricade, clawing into the Town Hall. The kids recoil from the windows, SCREAMING as they bat ineffectually at the grasping hands.
They're in there alright! I can feel its clammy flesh!
Hello? He turns around to face his friend and finds himself staring up at a zombie, moving toward him along the dark aisle, pale moonlight shining off its exposed bones. Norman GASPS. He realizes zombies are converging on him from all directions, barring his way out through the door. The Dead Judge GROANS as he approaches. Norman backs away, clutching the book to his chest. Out of the corner of his eye Norman spots another doorway in the shadows of the wall behind him and moves toward it, calling out desperately.
Help! Somebody help me!
Let's burn `em out! Obligingly, a couple of townsfolk hurl Molotov cocktails at the windows.
We're all gonna DIE!
Oh my gosh, do you think this has got anything to do with Norman? Perry waves her hand away irritably.
Of course not! He is interrupted by a SHOUT as someone sees Norman's tiny figure silhouetted against the raging sky on the roof of the building.
Everyone look! Perry and Sandra see their son begin gesticulating wildly at the clouds.
Perry, do something! He cups his hands around his mouth and YELLS at Norman.
Norman! Get down from there this instant! You're supposed to be grounded! ParaNorman 70.
You horrible old witch! Is this what you want? The roiling face above him seems to CACKLE mercilessly.
Necromancer!
This is all his doing!
Norman! Perry feels the shift in the crowd. They're not just baying for blood. They're about to start baying for his son's blood.
Once upon a time in a far-off land there lived a king and queen... in a magnificent castle... The horrible cloud face above him CACKLES monstrously, drowning out the story.
Why won't you listen to me? Why are you doing this?! The face in the clouds turns inside out as a tongue of lightning spits out. It SMACKS into the book held in front of Norman's chest, lifts him up off his feet and throws him back onto the old timbers of the roof. The air is knocked out of Norman as, trailing smoke, he SMASHES through the wood into the fiery chasm of the building beneath. ParaNorman 71.
Agatha Prenderghast of his Majesty's Province of Massachusetts... As the Judge's voice continues, Norman sees played out against it a MONTAGE of the preceding court case. The notary stands up, waving a wad of testimonies.
...on this day you have been arraigned for the horrible crime of witchcraft... A pale woman fiddles nervously with the ribbon on her bonnet as she is questioned by the Judge.
...witnessed by those whose testimonies have been heard. A wiry woman with a pinched face gestures fearfully with her arms as she recounts her evidence. ParaNorman 72.
You have, by this court, been found guilty...
No! A young farmhand bows his head shamefully, as he adds further ammunition to the prosecution.
...and it is passed on you, according to your grievous crimes... Another village woman SOBS into a handkerchief as she tells her story. QUICK CUTS of the accusers, one after the other, as the Judge finishes his verdict. The notary, the preacher, the townsfolk. All point at Norman.
...execution. Camera swings slowly around Norman to reveal AGGIE PRENDERGHAST, standing in chains right behind him.
No! Norman reacts with horror. The "witch" cowering next to him is no more than eleven years-old. Her long hair is unkempt and dirt on her face is streaked with tears from her eyes. Her manacles have been specially made to fit her tiny wrists, and weigh her to the floor. She SNIFFS, scared and confused.
Do you have anything to say for yourself?
I was only playing!
Aye, with fire! You were speaking with the dead! The crowd GASPS and MURMURS fearfully.
I'll not risk damnation on these good people. The town Sheriff grabs Aggie by the shoulder. ParaNorman 73.
You are to be taken to the place of execution where you will be hanged by the neck until you be dead... Norman shouts out but no one can hear or see him.
Wait! No! You can't do this! The grim-faced Sheriff moves toward Norman and Aggie. She backs away, tears flowing down her face.
I didn't do anything wrong! A terrible panic comes over her face.
Stop! Leave me alone or I'll make you sorry! I'll make all of you sorry! Norman feels unsteady on his feet, the room seeming to spin around him. The faces of the townsfolk, pale and skull-like, swirl around and around, blurring together. In the center of it all, glowing like a bonfire, Aggie
The world turns black and Norman collapses in a faint.
How could you?! She was just a little kid! She was no different than me! The Dead Judge takes a step forward.
Keep away from me! The Dead Judge stops, then opens his horrible mouth and speaks in a guttural voice. ParaNorman 74.
You... must... stop... the... curse. A beat. Norman is stunned.
What? You don't want to kill me? The Judge shakes his head and points down at the book beside Norman's feet.
You can speak to the dead. To us. To her. We need you to read from the book to send us all back to the grave.
But it didn't work! It's a fairy tale! Just a bedtime... story... He narrows his eyes at the Judge.
That's it, isn't it? A bedtime story to keep a little girl asleep for another year. And now you need my help because I'm the only one who can read it to her! He bends down to pick it up. His eyes flash angrily at the zombies and he hurls the burnt book at the Judge. It hits him in the chest and falls to his feet with a THUD.
Here's your book! Try reading it yourself! The zombies stare down at the blackened lump of charred paper, and several of them GASP. The Dead Judge's eyes are filled with fear and desperation.
Why did you do it?
We were scared.
Of what?
Of her.
We thought we knew our way in life but in death we are lost. Norman knows they're telling the truth.
Please help us. Norman looks at the book of fairy tales, lying at his feet. Its pages are curled and blackened, embers still glowing around the hole blown right through it.
Every year someone reads the story at her grave. Before me it was Mr Prenderghast, and before him there were others, but the curse doesn't ever go away. Nothing gets better. It's not enough. Norman looks at it a moment, thinking. He knows what he has to do.
What will you do?
Something nobody ever did before. I've gotta go talk to her.
Guys! Guys! Under here! Under here! The kids scramble beneath the shelter of the counter as more glowing embers rain down around them. Courtney grabs Mitch by the bicep and whispers weakly.
Mitch, if we die tonight, this might be the last chance I get to tell you how I feel. ParaNorman 76.
Uh, well, no. Unless we get brought back as zombies, and then technically you'll have longer. Courtney opens her mouth to continue, but her love train is thoroughly derailed by the nearby CRASH of breaking wood, and the archive door beside them CLATTERS to the ground. The cowering kids all watch in silent horror as several dark figures limp and shamble out of the smoke and make their way past them across the room. It's the zombies, and they're being led by Norman.
Norman?
Come on! This way!
You've gotta be kidding me... Norman, his mouth shielded by his sleeve, heads purposefully toward the front doors.
A ripple of shock runs through the crowd as a number of skeletal figures emerge, SPLUTTERING and WHEEZING through the smoke, shielding their faces from the heat. The gathered crowd are even more aghast when they realize a child is being guided out of the flames by the zombies. Unseen by the crowd, Courtney and the other kids crawl to the splintered opening of the front door, blinking and COUGHING for air. Hooper pulls out her gun and marches toward the zombies.
You stay right where you are! You may be dead already, but I will still shoot you! ParaNorman 77.
Wait! Courtney and the other kids GASP as they watch from within the doorway.
Oh my gosh! Far above, the clouds THUNDER like demonic laughter. Perry steps forward, face red.
Son! Step away from the zombies!
No! I won't! Sandra comes up behind her husband and holds his arm.
Perry, calm down! You're going to have a heart attack and then what are you going to do?
I'll come back and haunt Norman! Maybe then he'll start listening to me!
No! You don't understand what's happening here! I spoke to them and it's not what you think! Courtney edges forward out of the doorway, shocked but transfixed.
The curse isn't about the zombies hurting you! It's about you hurting them! I figured it out, and I know a way to stop this!
He's in league with them! A few members of the crowd try to push past Perry toward the steps.
Let's hang him! ParaNorman 78.
No! We can't hang him, stupid! It's the 21st Century!
Then let's burn him! Sandra turns despairingly to the crowd behind her.
Can you stop being a mob for just one minute?!
Listen to me!
Get them before they eat us! Punctuating every shout, the roiling clouds continue to RUMBLE their horrible laughter.
Leave him alone! Courtney suddenly emerges, standing right in front of Norman. Following her lead in true "I'm Spartacus!" fashion, Neil, Mitch and Alvin step forward too, creating a barrier all around him, all joining hands in solidarity. CLOSE ON Courtney's face as she hisses sidelong to Alvin.
Hand, Alvin! My hand! A ripple of confusion seems to run through the crowd.
Everybody, listen up! You all need to stop trying to kill my brother! You're adults! Stop it! I know that this seems crazy, believe me I'm with you on that, but I think he does actually know what he's talking about!
All night he's been trying to save you from the witch's curse!
Yeah, and all you want to do is burn and murder stuff, burn and murder stuff! Just burning and murdering! ParaNorman 79.
Shame on every single one of you! How dare you all! Amongst the crowd, doubt is beginning to show. Even the rumbling clouds have gone quiet.
So they're not going to hurt us?
No, does it look like any of them are trying to hurt you? They're just people. At least they used to be. Just stupid people who should have known better. Norman looks at the line of Puritans. They look quite sad and pathetic really. Hardly monstrous at all.
They did something unforgivable because they were scared, and they were cursed for it. Now it's happening all over again. Don't you get it? They were just like you. But now it has to stop. For good. Across the crowd, weapons are being lowered and faces are starting to look a little guilty. There is silence as the modern townsfolk stare at the line of three hundred year-old townsfolk. Throughout the crowd various weapons CLATTER as they hit the ground. A small girl tiptoes up the steps and silently offers one of the zombies his arm back. The quiet is shattered by a deafening SCREAM. It blows out of the storm clouds and whips through the plaza on a hellish wind. The street lamps around the square shatter in bursts of sparks, raining down on the amassed people. The sky above is blood red, clouds twisting and contorting into a vast unnatural vortex. The Town Hall erupts in a fireball, tongues of white fire ROARING out of the embers as the ground shakes and the crowd scatters in terror. Neil turns to Norman as they duck for cover behind a parked car, and SHOUTS over the noise of the wind.
Jeez, what is her problem? Norman takes in the chaos around them... ParaNorman 80.
Oh, Norman!
So what do we do now?
I... I really don't know...
Yes you do, Norman! You've got to get to that witch's grave!
But...
But nothing! You listen to me, buster, we didn't turn away when Daleridge High was slaughtering our volleyball team, did we?
I thought we did.
No we didn't. I've cheered the uncheerable, Norman, and I'm not letting you give up now! Norman turns to Perry, his eyes all business.
Dad, could I borrow the car?
Excuse me? ParaNorman 81.
Perry drives in silent discomfort following the Judge's instructions through town, glancing in his rear-view mirror at the passengers in the back seat. Sandra takes a small perfume spritzer from her purse as surreptitiously as she can and sprays the air around her.
Boy, the traffic tonight!
Norman! He's on my side of the seat!
She wants you to move over. The Judge MUMBLES.
I heard that! Mom! Tell the zombie to stop saying stuff about me!
Can you quit using the "z" word?
So help me I will stop this car right now if all three of you don't quit it this instant! ParaNorman 82.
After a moment, the Judge lets out a sepulchral MOAN.
He says "take a left here". Perry gives a distasteful look, but turns the steering wheel. He peers out through the raging storm, windscreen wiper batting ineffectively at the onslaught of debris.
We've already been this way. We're going around in circles!
Maybe we should pull over and ask someone?
Oh, right, you think maybe we should stop at a graveyard and dig up some other eighteenth-century corpses?
It's not a bad idea.
I wish I understood you.
Please don't tell me he needs to use the bathroom. Norman listens as the Judge continues GRUMBLING, then leans forward over his father's seat, pointing.
Turn down there!
Oh my, do you think that's it? ParaNorman 83.
Norman steels himself and begins to march forward through the thick brambles, the others following behind.
So, why are we here?
Someone's gotta talk to her, Dad.
Yeah, um, why's that person you, exactly? As they continue, the surrounding trees press in on them, just like in Norman's vision. Branches and thorns lash at their faces while thick roots entangle their feet. Norman's family are falling behind and realize too late that the encroaching trees are about to crush Norman.
Oh my goodness, look out!
Mom!
Perry! Do something! Perry is finding it difficult to move; a tree bears down on him, its roots snagging his thrashing limbs.
I'm trying!
Kick it in the knothole! Norman hops nimbly between two huge trunks as they SMASH together, blocking off the way ahead with gnarled wood. Sandra struggles free and shouts over the branches.
Norman?! ParaNorman 84.
I'm okay Mom! Wait for me here! Don't worry!
Be careful! Now separated from the others, Norman turns to go ahead on his own. Ahead of him a phosphorescent glow shines off the trees, and he knows he is very close.
Hello? Words echo around him in response.
You're not welcome here. Go away. Norman shivers as the voice RUMBLES coldly. The raging wind intensifies as Norman turns back around.
Uh... I really need to speak with you.
Who are you?
I'm Norman. Norman Babcock. You don't actually know me, but I know you. We're actually kind of the same, you and I. Norman takes another step closer, ducking as petrified branches and rocks fly over his head on the wind. ParaNorman 85.
You're not dead.
Well, no, apart from that.
And you're a boy.
Well, yes, that too.
You're not like me at all. Norman hesitates, knowing he's on dangerous ground.
Well, I know how you feel?
No you don't. You don't know anything about me.
I know your name is Agatha Prenderghast. The ghostly voice wavers for the first time.
What?
And I know you're probably tired. Right? Because, I mean, it's really late and it's been a long night and we're, like, only eleven years-old, and... The voice snaps back like a clap of thunder.
I don't want to go to sleep, and you can't make me! I burnt the book into dust, and now I don't have to listen to that stupid story any more! Leave me alone! Norman is terrified, but advances on the tree, the rocks under his feet churning.
No. I'm not leaving. Just listen to me.  Uh... once upon a time... long ago... there was a little girl... ParaNorman 86.
What?
A little girl who was different from the other people in her village. The voice chants petulantly over him as if putting its demonic fingers in its ears.
I'm not listening! LA-LA-LA-LA-LA-
She could see and do things that no one could understand, and that made them scared of her.
I don't like this story!
She turned away from everyone, and became sad and lonely, and had no one to turn to.
Stop it! If Aggie weren't floating three feet above the ground, she'd be stamping her feet. Her voice blows bits of bark off the surrounding trees.
But the more she turned away from people, the more scared they were of her, and they did something terrible! Arcs of white energy CRACKLE through the air. Where they hit the ground, they send up white flames.
They became so scared that they took her away and killed her!
No!
But even though she was dead something in her came back.
Stop! ParaNorman 87.
And this part of her wouldn't go away, not for three hundred years...
Shut up!
And the longer it stayed, the less there was of the little girl!
I'll make you suffer!
Why? Aggie goes to shout, but stops, unsure of her answer.
Because... because...
Because you want everyone to hurt just as much as you are! So whenever you wake up you play this mean game, but you don't play fair!
They hurt me!
So you hurt them back?
I wanted everyone to see how rotten they were!
You're just like them, Agatha.
No I'm not!
You're a bully.
No I'm not! Norman has almost reached the eye of the storm. The world behind him is a whirling torrent of burning white chaos.
They did something awful, but that doesn't mean you should too!
All that's left of you now is mean and horrible! He sees her clearly now. True, she is floating above the ground, and her hair is writhing madly about her, and plumes of spectral fire are pouring off her body, but she's still just a little girl underneath.
That's not true! Norman climbs up a tree root, Aggie's flames searing his skin and clothes as he gets close enough to touch her.
Then stop. This is wrong and you know it! You've spent so long remembering the bad people that you've forgotten the good ones. There must have been someone who loved you and cared for you. You don't remember them?
Leave me alone!
But you're not alone! You have to remember!
Keep away from me! Norman reaches the end of the root and jumps. His outstretched fingers shake madly as they approach Aggie's tiny hand, as though the air is fighting against him.
Remember! There is a flash of white, and silence.
Aggie. My name was Aggie. ParaNorman 89.
I... I remember my mommy brought me here once. We sat under the tree and she told me stories. They all had happy endings.
Sometimes when people get scared they say and do terrible things. I think you got so scared, that you forgot who you are. But I don't think you're a witch. Not really. Aggie looks into his eyes.
You don't?
I think you're just a little kid with a really special gift who only ever wanted people to understand her. He smiles softly.
So we're not all that different at all.
But what about the people who hurt you? Don't you ever want to make them suffer? Norman thinks this over, and shrugs.
Well, yeah, but what good would that do? You think just because there's bad people out there that there's no good ones either? I thought the same thing.
For a while. But there's always someone out there for you. Somewhere. Aggie frowns, looking lost.
I just want my mommy...
I'm sorry, Aggie. She's gone.
That story you were telling. How does it end?
I think that's up to you. Aggie blinks through tears at the grass beneath her feet.
Is this where they buried me?
It's a pretty good place to sleep. Then you can be with your mom again. Aggie holds Norman's gaze, then looks down to the ground, her tiny frame heaving with a last SOB. She sits down on the grass and curls up, resting her head on her hands. Norman kneels down next to her as she closes her eyes. Her breathing grows deeper and more peaceful; her tiny frame shifting softly under her long hair. The air around them grows blurry and indistinct. Aggie softens as though out of focus, and the whole world becomes a swirling dance of glowing orbs. Norman closes his eyes as a blizzard of light engulfs him, spiraling up into the clouds high above his head. Lightning flashes white far above and thunder RUMBLES softly through the sky, as if moving away.
Sleep tight. He clambers down through the roots back toward the path.
Norman? Norman! Sandra runs over to him and scoops him up in her arms, hugging him tightly.
My brave little man! I thought I was going to lose you!
Mom, you're embarrassing me.
That's my job.
Good job, Norman. Perry takes a deep breath and looks at his son. There is relief and a hint of admiration in his eyes.
Well done, Son. You did it. The Judge, stood some way behind them, lets out a GROAN, and the Babcocks turn to look at him. ParaNorman 92.
So, uh, are we gonna need statements? She slaps it out of his hand.
Ow! That was my finger nail. Slob Guy, Crystal and Mrs Henscher are convincing each other of their excuses.
You know what it's like. You join a mob and you say things. I was merely inhabiting the role.
Yeah, it was the others. They pushed me into it. Norman smiles as he passes Alvin, regaling a bunch of teenagers.
Yeah, me and Norman are in a lot of the same classes. Pretty much inseparable. Best buds. And we do a lot of psychic investigations together. We have a blog actually, you should check it out. Nearby, Courtney wastes no time cozying up to Mitch. ParaNorman 93.
So I was thinking, maybe we could catch a movie sometime? Nothing scary.
That sounds great, Kathy! Y'know, you're gonna love my boyfriend! He's like a total chick-flick nut! Courtney stares at him, at a loss for words, then successfully reads between the lines and turns away
Norman eventually finds Neil sat upon the witch statue's broken plinth, attempting to piece it back together pebble by pebble.
Hey Neil. He climbs up beside his friend, who beams at him gleefully.
You did it! You stopped the witch's curse and made the zombies go away and saved pretty much everything!
I guess. I just wanted to say thanks. You stood by me. All the time.
Yeah, of course. Don't get weird or anything. So you think now everything's gonna turn back to normal? Norman looks across the square. The smoldering buildings, the fallen signposts, the warped trees, the rubble...
As normal as it could be.
Son.
Hi Dad.
What're you watching?
A scary movie.
Your, uh, your grandma here is she? Norman looks around and sees his father and grandmother sitting side by side on the sofa. He nods.
Right. Of course she is. Perry tries his best to maintain his composure, and wriggles a little in his seat.
Is she... Is she sitting next to me? Norman nods. Perry "hem-hems" and turns awkwardly to face her, nose to ear. She doesn't seem to notice.
Hi Mom. Perry tries to downplay his discomfort and turns back to concentrate on the movie his son is watching. Sandra and Courtney enter from the kitchen carrying snacks. Sandra takes a seat on an armchair and Courtney lies down on the floor beside her brother, munching popcorn. They all settle in to watch the movie. A beat, then Perry and Grandma speak at the same time.
