Good afternoon. You name, please.
George Olson.
 Better stop while it's still perfect.
And where were you born, Mr. Olson?
Waukegan, Illinois.
 Is there something I can do for you?
There are a lot of things you could do for me.
And this is your wife, Mr. Olson?
Yes. She was born in Waukegan, too. Same as Jack Benny, you know.
 Jack Benny?
 Well, there is something you could do for me.
I'd be delighted.
You can move to one side. So my husband can get in.
 Any firearms? Dutiable articles of any kind, Mr. Olson?
 Would you care to see the Seattle paper?
No thanks, I've seen Seattle.
My name's Larry Mitchell. I live in Vancouver.
Same as an hour ago. Remember? I'm the steady type.
 I'm afraid there's nothing I can do about it, Mr. Mitchell.
You could tell me your name. And where you're going.
How far does this train go?
Vancouver, B.C.
I'm going to Vancouver, Mr. Mitchell.
O.K. Be rugged.
You're next for the Immigration and Customs. I trust your papers are all in order.
Thanks.
Betty.. Mayfield.
Betty Mayfield. Miss or Mrs.
Miss Mayfield.
And where were you born, Miss Mayfield?
New York, City.
I see you are wearing a wedding ring.
I've been married. My Husband.. (she breaks off and bites her lip)
Then I take it Mayfield was not your married name?
I've wired ahead to--
Inspector Gillette, Isn't it? I'm Larry Mitchell. We've met before, several times.
I cross the border so often I carry an identification card.
 Yes, I remember you, Mr.  Mitchell.  You know this lady?
Very well. Since 1940, at least. I met her--let me see--it was New York City, wasn't it Betty?
 How long do you expect to be in Canada, Miss Mayfield?
Oh.. a month.
 Thank you. I hope you have a pleasant trip.
 Any firearms? Dutiable articles of any kind?
No.
Thank you.
 My suitcases are open in the next room.
 Anything dutiable, Mr. Mitchell?
No. Nothing.
Thank you.
Better get rid of the wedding ring. That's what threw him.
Trouble?
Or Reno?  They always throw them off the bridge there, I've heard.
Perhaps I don't take it so lightly.
Where are you staying in Vancouver Royal. It's pretty crowded you know.
Is it? I expected to go to the Vancouver Royal. Should I have a reservation?
I'll make one for you.  I live there.
 Well..
 A very small service. It doesn't even ask for thanks. How long for?
I really don't know.
Indefinitely?
 I don't know.
 You don't know.
Good afternoon, Mr. Mitchell. Have a mice trip? Glad to see you back.
Fine, thanks. This is Miss Betty Mayfield. You have a reservation for her.
Miss Mayfield. Yes, indeed. A balcony room on the top floor, Magnificent view. Nothing above it but the penthouse.
I'm getting positively haggard. In a couple of years people will be describing me as well preserved.
 I see out friend Larry Mitchell is with us again.
I couldn't care less.
And with a very beautiful girl, if my eyes don't deceive me at this distance.
I don't think I want any tea.
 Mr. Larry Mitchell, please (a beat, she changes her mind) No, never mind.
I'm afraid you're not very glad to see me, Margo.
 With your charm? How could I help it? Have a nice trip?
So-so.
Who's the girl?
Her name's Mayfield. Betty Mayfield.
Nice.
She's just a girl I met on the train. You don't mind do you?
 Why should I mind?
You shouldn't. You washed me up very thoroughly.
As thoroughly as I could. It wasn't easy. But you are helping me.
 Margo, darling. You washed me up. Remember? We're just friends. You wanted it that way.
 She's very beautiful. She's much younger than I am. And she's rich, I hope.
Rich? I haven't the faintest idea. Why?
You ought to know why.
I don't. My hunch is she's just torn up an unhappy marriage. I was able to do her a small favor.
Splendid. Now she can return the compliment.
She can give you enough money to cover these... and the other bad checks you've given me.
I hoped to get enough to cover them before they cleared. I wasn't lucky.
You know what would happen to you if I turned these over to the police?
 I have a rough idea.
You'd go to jail. For a long term.
Correct. I couldn't even afford to pay a lawyer to defend me.
What'll we do about it, Margo?
She is much younger than I am. That's something I'm going to have to get used to. Isn't it, Larry? They'll all be much younger than I am. Here. (she holds out the checks) Tear them up.
I guess I'm still in love with you, Larry. What an idiot!
I've always been a heel. I guess I always will be.
You don't have to make a pose of it.
It's the only pose I have left. I'm sunk. Broke. I don't even have my hotel bill.
 I seem to recognize this routine. First the kiss then the touch. (she makes a hopeless gesture.) Oh, what's the use. You're you.
I only have a couple of hundred.
I seem to remember that you like to help yourself.
 That's not very kind.
Kind or not kind. What's the difference? It always ends up the same way.
 What's this?
What does it look like?
How long have you had it?
Years, why?
It's against the law to cross the border with a gun. The Canadian police might like to know about this.
 You already have the checks, darling.
I didn't mean it that way (he puts the gun back in the drawer, pushes the drawer shut.) I'm sorry.
Oh, forget it. Clark Brandon's throwing a party up in his penthouse this evening. Take me?
Of course.
How about your new friend?
 I told you she's just..
 A girl you meet on the train. Excuse my bringing it up again. (she glances at her wrist watch) Be back in an hour. Right?
Right.
In an hour, Larry.
Good afternoon, Mr. Campbell.
 Mr. Mitchell.
 A little something on account perhaps?
Rather more than a little something, Mr. Mitchell.
I'm afraid this is all for the moment.
I think we'd better discuss this in my office, Mr. Mitchell.
Nothing to discuss. Tomorrow the sun will shine even brighter. Be grateful for small mercies.
Oh, I forgot. I have a dinner engagement. Excuse me.
Thank you, Mr. Campbell.
Nice room. Balcony and everything. Lovely view too.
 Very nice Mitchell turns.
No thanks?
 Thank you.
 Suppose I hadn't known that immigration inspector? Hadn't put in a good word for you?
I'm supposing.
I think you're a nice girl. I like you. But I can read signs if the print is large enough. It was your manner more than the wedding ring that bothered the inspector.  A sort of tenseness, as if you were afraid of something.
I have a darned good idea you're name isn't Betty Mayfield at all.
Yes?
How about taking to Uncle Larry into the old firm? He's a useful guy to have on your side.
EMPTY_LINE
 Don't get me wrong, Betty. I'm not suggesting you murdered anybody, you know.
Dine and dance tonight? I've got fifty bucks to throw away.
Not tonight.
What's the matter?
I'm not in the mood for dining and dancing.
We have some nice places around Vancouver.
I'm sure you have.
 Well, how about a breeze up to the penthouse about six o'clock?  A friend of mine is throwing a cocktail party up there.
I haven't been invited.
Nobody gets invited to Clark Brandon's parties. They just go.
Perhaps I'd better get you straightened out, Mr. Mitchell. You've been rather nice to me, in a couple of ways. And I'm grateful. But I don't think this entitles you to put me on a leash.
Nobody I'd rather have on a leash.
I'm awfully sorry, but I'd like to take a bath and get freshened up.
The brush-off, huh?
I'm trying very hard to be polite about it.
Don't I even get my face slapped?
 Would you mind?
 Okay. You win.
If you change your mind about the cocktail party, or anything else, give me a buzz.
If I change my mind.
 You can have the table yourself, if you'd rather. I'm only killing time.
No, please.
Sit down then. We often have a double up here.
I see.
 Oh waiter.
Yes sir.
Yes, Miss.
I'd like a dry Martini. Very dry, please.
Sorry, Miss. Beer and ale only. Canadian law.
 Beer?  Well, all right.
Beer or ale, Miss?
Ale. I don't mind.
Right, Miss.
 Your liquor laws..
 Disgusting, aren't they? If you really want a Martini, I know where you can get one.
A fellow named Brandon has a penthouse here. He's holding open house. I was up there. Too noisy. Bored.
I see.
 It might be worth a Martini to you.
I don't need it that badly. I don't enjoy crashing other people's parties.
It's open-house. No crashing involved. Anybody in the hotel's welcome.
What did you say his name was?
Brandon. Clark Brandon. Fellow about my age. Lot of money... that he didn't make. Former American. Now naturalized in Canada. Social standing indeterminate. Manners not quite perfect. Scotch superb.
You don't sound as if you liked him very much.
 No.. not very well. And I like his friends even less. But.. (he waves his hand indifferently) If you really want a good dry Martini..
As I said before...
Sure. But I'd hate like the Dickens to be held to everything I've said before, wouldn't you?
You're not paying for this. It's quite enough that you let me sit at your table.
I never pay for anything. They just keep me here to amuse the guests.
And do you amuse the guests?
No. (indicating her bottle of ale) Are you really going to drink that stuff?
You're drinking it.
 I can be talked out of it. As a matter of fact, I'd like a dry Martini myself.
Would it make you anymore amusing?
Whatever you say.
I didn't say anything.
 I don't know you and you don't know me. I made a reasonably polite suggestion. But I'm sure you'd rather be alone.
I hate to be alone. But I've heard all the approaches there are... even yours.
Neatly said...but to the wrong man. The trouble with pretty girls is that they can't imagine anyone thinking of anything else but the fact they are pretty girls. I get tired of it.
 Do you think I don't?
 Thanks for the fresh air. That felt good.
 You're sure Mr. Brandon won't mind?
He doesn't even know half the people who come up to drink his liquor.
 Another.
 This lady would like a dry Martini. So would I.
Very good, sir.
Well well. Baby wouldn't come with me. Where did you pick her up?
Hello, Mitchell. Having fun?
The liquors lovely. The rest of the party you can have.
What's the matter, baby. Don't you like me anymore?
 Lay off, can't you?
Lay off what? This is my new girl friend. Met her on the train. She's very fond of me. Love at first sight. Wasn't it, baby?
And I'd begun to think this was my lucky day.
 You're wanted on the telephone, Mr. Brandon. Mrs. West.
 Thanks. (to Betty with brutal sarcasm) If you are a friend of Larry Mitchell's I'm sure I leave you in good hands.
 Hello Margo. Aren't you coming up?  Mitchell? Oh yes, he's here. (he smiles a little grimly) He came up alone, but it seems he has a new girl friend with him now.  Don't be theatrical, Margo. What do you care about Mitchell? Come on up and have a drink.
 I haven't any intensions of being theatrical. Of course I'll come up. Goodbye.
 Did you have a nice day, Mrs. West?
I had a rotten day, if its any of your business.
I'm terribly sorry, Mrs. West.
Don't let it break you up.
Oh, I wouldn't do that, Mrs.  West.
What's so funny?
 I'm terribly sorry, Mrs. West.
Oh, the Coldstream Guards.  Don't you take your hat off in elevators?
 I never wear a hat. (his face changes to consternation) Oh, so I am. I forgot. (he takes his hat off) I guess I'm terribly sorry again, Mrs. West.
Penthouse floor, please.
May I?
May you what?
Oh nothing.
Are you always this witty?
Hi Margo. Hello Killaine. You two come together?
In the same elevator. It is a public conveyance.
Let me introduce you. Mr.  Killaine, Mrs. West.
 Fascinated.
What'll you have, Margo?
 Martini.
 You, Killaine?
Scotch and plain water, I think.
 Warm water, no doubt.
What?
A private joke.
It goes with this... cold houses and warm drinks...the effete Englishman.
You're not English.
 I'm sorry. I forgot about calling for you.
It's quite unimportant, Mr. Mitchell. After all, you got what you wanted.
Be nasty.
I have no intension of being nasty, Mr. Mitchell.
In that case, there's someone here I'd like to introduce to you. Over there.
 She is beautiful. And young. (she turns back to Mitchell) No thank you.
 I say YES!
You're not the type to be masterful, darling. It takes character.
 Of course, darling. Anything you say.
That's what I like about cocktail parties. Everyone is so perfectly natural.
How's life treating you?
The usual grind.
Round of golf Saturday?
If I can get off.
Betty, this is Margo West. She wants to meet you. Miss Mayfield.
How do you do?
 You're very attractive, my dear. And you look very unsophisticated.
Unsophisticated?  If I knew about this babe...
I think I'd like to dance.
Why certainly, baby.
 Please be a little more careful how you talk, Mr. Mitchell.
How careful should I be?
I don't like being referred to as babe, or addressed as baby. I don't like your possessive attitude, nor your hints of secret knowledge. In fact, to be very frank, Mr. Mitchell, I don't think I like you.
Maybe you're going to have to like me.
You've shed the ring, haven't you? Took my advice. That's the girl. Keep right on taking my advice and we'll get somewhere.
I think you're drunk.
Just drunk enough.
What's the matter, baby? Don't you like being kissed?
 Next time you try that, Mr. Mitchell... (a beat, she takes a deep breath, then very pointedly) ..don't. I'm warning you.
Do me a favor, Mitchell. Find yourself a nice secluded park bench.
 Did I do something wrong?
I wouldn't know. Just do it somewhere else. There is such a thing as good manners.
How would you know, Brandon?
 Want to walk out... or get thrown out?
You don't throw guests out, Brandon.
Don't bet on it. I'm eccentric.
 It takes two to clinch.  Clark. Nice to have seen you.
 Dance?
No thank you.
 Where I come from, Mr. Brandon, the host tries to protect his guests from insult.
I stopped him.
And if he fails, he at least has the good manners to apologize.
I don't exactly regard Larry Mitchell's pick-ups...
 We haven't been introduced. But if you'll overlook that, I'm sure that between us we can contrive a graceful exit.
 Thank you very much.
Would it have helped if I'd knocked him down?
Hardly. Who's the girl?
Somebody Mitchell picked up on the train. I don't even know her name.
She doesn't look like a girl who would let herself be picked up on a train.
That's what I thought, at first.  Maybe somebody else ought to have thrown this party.  With my liquor of course.
 Everybody stand up! His Honor, Judge Hopkinson! Court now in session!
Mr. Bailiff, please make room for Mr. Henry Kinsolving, outside the bar of the court.
 I repeat... no one is to leave the courtroom.
You may proceed, Mr. Clerk.
 The Defendant will rise and face the Jury.
Gentlemen of the Jury, have you reached a verdict?
 We have.
And what is your verdict?
We the Jury, find the Defendant, Elizabeth Kinsolving, guilty of murder in the first degree.
 Motion to pool the Jury, if it please the Court.
So ordered.
 Speak a little louder please.
Order in the Court!
The Court now has a statement to make.
 Please sit down, Mrs. Kinsolving.
This court, like most courts, has occasionally been guilty of judicial error. Prior to the commencement of this trail, Mr.  Leamington, as attorney for the Defendant, made a motion for a change of venue on the ground that a fair trial could not be had by this Defendant in this jurisdiction. Most of you know why this motion was made. The Defendant was alleged to have been tried and convicted in the columns of the daily newspaper owned by her father-in-law, Mr. Henry Kinsolving, and as a result public opinion was said to have been prejudiced to the extent that it was doubtful twelve Jurors could be found with open minds. This Court regretfully denied the motion. It did not believe that a Jury with open minds could not be found. The members of this Jury declared on oath that their minds were open. The Court had no reason at that time to disbelieve them.
Elizabeth Kinsolving has been tried and found guilty of murder of her husband, Lee Kinsolving.  Lee Kinsolving was the only son of our most prominent citizen.  Mr. Kinsolving controls, or is said to control, our leading bank, many of our business enterprises and our only daily newspaper. He affords employment to a large number of our citizens. His influence on our affairs is very great.  Perhaps to great.
Your Honor, I protest that statement!
Sit down, Mr. Prosecutor. Your are out of order.
We all new Lee Kinsolving well, We watched him grow up.  We observed that he was proud and hot tempered, and had a strain of arrogance, not unlike others of his family.
From this town Lee Kinsolving went to fight for his country.  And to this town, before he went overseas, he brought the wife he had married up North. To us he returned a war hero badly wounded, condemned for the rest of his life to wear a heavy brace around his neck. Competent medical testimony has shown that without that brace a very slight movement might have been enough to snap his spinal cord. This injury humiliated and embittered Lee Kinsolving, made him morose and violent, and perhaps caused him to drink to excess. The Defendant has admitted that there were bitter quarrels between herself and her husband. Such a quarrel took place on the night of his death, Upon the manner of that death this entire proceeding rests.
In my summing up to the Jury I emphasized that the case for the prosecution was, as so many murder cases are, purely circumstantial. It was alleged that while Lee Kinsolving slept, perhaps in a drunken stupor and perhaps not, the Defendant removed the neck brace from his neck and jerked his head sufficiently to rupture the spinal cord and cause death. It is admitted that the Defendant was found holding the neck brace in her hand, and bending over her husband's body, which was lying on the bed. Not in the bed, mind you, but sprawled across it.  The Defendant has testified that lee Kinsolving himself removed the neck brace to torment her, as it were, with the great danger in which this placed him. Then he started to walk towards her, holding the brace in his hands, and that being unsteady on his feet, he stumbled and fell backwards across the bed. And this fall broke his neck, although at the time she did not know it. She has testified that she picked the brace up from the floor and was about to attempt to replace it on his neck when her father-in-law entered the room and found her in that position.  By its verdict the Jury declared that Elizabeth Kinsolving's account of the death of her husband to be impossible of belief.
In all murder trails, a motion by the Defense for a directed verdict of acquittal before the case goes to the Jury is more or less automatic. It is usually perfunctory, and for that reason immediately denied. The laws of this state, and a few other jurisdictions, confer upon a Court a right to reserve its ruling upon such a motion until after the Jury has rendered its verdict. In this proceeding, I, as presiding Judge, availed myself of this power. I most honestly hoped that the Jury in this case might act as impartially as it declared itself to be.
Let me remind you that a Jury is the sole Judge of fact, and further let me remind you that the Jury must judge all the facts. It may not select nor create nor change facts. It may only interpret them. It may not declare something impossible which in fact is merely extremely difficult to believe.  Impossible is a very big word.  If we believe Elizabeth Kinsolving's sworn testimony, we must also believe that Lee Kinsolving performed an act which was almost certain to cause his death. It is difficult... very difficult to believe. But is it impossible? Are we sure that he knew it would cause his death? Or that in his then state of mind, he even considered the consequences at all? Many people have attempted suicide as a result of domestic quarrels. Not all have succeeded, nor meant to succeed. And surely not all those who did succeed... fully intended to. Not all knew what they were doing and those who did know, there were surely a few whose desire to hurt others overcame their fear of hurting themselves.  We cannot know what was in Lee Kinsolving's Mind. Therefore, some element of doubt must infallibly remain. It was not necessary for this Jury to declare its belief in the Defendant's innocence, nor to declare its that Lee Kinsolving by accident or his own intent. It was necessary for the Jury to admit to themselves, as reasonable men, the possibility.... however slight... that Elizabeth Kinsolving's story was true. This possibility the Jury has refused to admit.  It therefore becomes my duty to declare that such a possibility does in fact exist... and the Jury's refusal to recognize it was a failure to exercise it proper function.
The Court therefore rules that the motion of the Attorney for the Defense for a directed verdict of not guilty be now granted. The verdict of guilty brought by this Jury is herby set aside, and a verdict of not guilty is to be entered on the record. (his voice bow rises almost to a shout) And the Defendant, Elizabeth Kinsolving, is here with discharged from custody of the Sheriff of this county.
 For four years I endured your presence in my house, although I well knew you were no fit wife for my son.. That he had married in haste, and that he would repent it bitterly if he survived the war. I had no thought that he would die under his own roof, nor that the reward of my patience would be to stand beside his grave. I have done my best to avenge him. So far I have failed.  But I have not finished. You are free to go where you will, but there will be another day of reckoning, somewhere, sometime.  And when that day comes, I will be there. And that time you will not escape.
Good evening, Miss.
How soon can I get a plane to Seattle?
I'm afraid there's nothing more tonight, Miss. Unless you charter a plane.
How long would that take?
Well... they have to service the plane... and get a pilot down to the field, unless there's one hanging around there still... and then they have to get the immigration officer...
Immigration Officer?
Crossing the border this time of night they're a bit particular. You'd have to prove your identity, you know... unless you've got a passport. They might even want to know why you're in such a hurry.  Otherwise they might think...
They might think I was running away from something.
Possibly, Miss.
Thank you very much.
Leaving us so soon, Miss Mayfield?
I don't blame you.. For running away.
Good night, Miss.
Good night.
This isn't the penthouse floor, Mr. Brandon.
 Miss Mayfield...
I know it's a littler late for an apology.
 Much too late.
Don't take it so big... it isn't a tragedy.
What's the matter with you?
You said it wasn't a tragedy.
What's funny about that? If you pick up people like Larry Mitchell other people are bound to get funny ideas about you. The world is full of Larry Mitchells.
There's one less tonight.
Out on the balcony.
Through the heart, apparently. Very little blood. What's the story?
There isn't one.. That anyone would believe. I went for a walk after dinner, down to the ocean...alone... I came up and went to bed. I didn't sleep very well. Then there was a thunderstorm. And it began to rain. I went across to close the French door. That's the first time I saw him out there.
He got in here how?
Not with my consent, strange as it seems. I don't know how he got in. I don't know anything.
Ever see this before?
No. And I've never fired a gun in my life, Aren't you supposed not to touch it?
Sure... but somebody always does..
 Lovely eyes... honest eyes..
They'll know whether he killed himself.
I don't.
How did you meet him?
On a train. He said he lived here, and he offered to make a reservation for me.
Nice of him.
He knew the immigration officer. He eased himself in.
He was a great boy for that. What else?
That's all there is.
They're still honest eyes... but there's something behind them.
Go ahead...if you want to. It doesn't matter.
I'd rather wait until it does matter.
You tried to run away.
There wasn't any plane.
It's always a mistake to run away. Always.
 Want a spike in it?
 No thanks.
You make friends quickly, don't you, Clark?
Sometimes.
And without much discrimination.
Leave that one lay.
They still hang women in Canada, I've heard.
So much less refined than frizzling them in the chair.
Oh, shut up! (she looks down at his feet) You haven't even got your spats on.
Think I'll have trouble staying awake?
I'm sorry. This thing has just knocked me silly.  How long do we have to wait for this police character?
Until he comes. He's a nice guy. You've met him.
That comedian?
Don't let the eyeglass fool you. That's what it's for.
You Mr. Brandon?
Inspector Killaine's compliments. He'll be up in another ten minutes.
You in charge here?
So it seems Sergeant.
Right.
I hate to pull rank on you Sergeant, but once in a while...for moral purposes...you might address me as "Inspector". In moments of extreme desperation, you might even call me "sir".
I knew him. He was easy to dislike, poor chap.
They tell me he'll be a great loss to the liquor trade. This Mayfield girl...
... I supposed you knew her, too, Inspector.
I've met her.
It's her room. She only got to the Hotel this afternoon,. With him. (he indicates body on chaise) I guess he took too much for granted. Here's the gun.
Pearl-handled .25 Automatic, uh? (he looks a little closer) No, it's a Belgian gun... 6.6 mm.
Correct, Inspector. A woman's gun. U.S. 125 caliber ammunition in it. It was on a table in there.
Nobody's been questioned yet. You noticed the wound entry?
Much too low for a suicide. Not conclusive, of course. But a woman of ordinary height, standing rather close to a tall man, such as he was...  ...would be apt to shoot him about where he got shot.
Then there's the shell.
This make of gun throws a shell backwards, high, and to the right. The chaise is only about four feet from the wall.
So the shell ought to have gone over?
Unless the gun was slanted up.
So the wound and the shell give you the same answer.
Right. A clean deduction from observed facts. They've got to be simple once in a while, Inspector.
 I've always looked forward to it. All right, let's get him out of here and tidy up.
I'd take a look in her clothes closet if I were you, Inspector.
I'm sorry to have kept you waiting, Mrs. West, Mr.  Clarendon.
Miss Mayfield. There's not much I can do tonight. But there is one thing.
Mr. Clarendon, have you ever seen this before?
 I'm sorry, Inspector, I don't know much about..
 Recently, then.
 No, Not recently. I'm sure of that.
Thank you.
Mr. West?
 I never saw it before.
Positive?
Thank you.
Yes, I've seen it before.
Where?
On Miss Mayfield's balcony.. beside the chaise, I picked it up. Don't ask me why. I ought to know better.
Quite sure you had no motive?
Could be.
I rather thought so. And before that, had you ever seen the gun?
No.
 It was lying where on the balcony?
Near his right hand. About a foot away. Perhaps more. Good heavens, one doesn't use a tape measure.
We do, when we get the chance.
I needn't keep you any longer, Mr. Clarendon.
 Thank you. It is rather late... and I'm not young anymore. Good night.
What about me?
Not quiet yet.
You knew Mitchell pretty well, didn't you, Mrs. West?
I was in love with him... which shows you the quality of my brains. (bursting out-- looking at Betty) Why don't you ask her about the gun?
I shall. From your knowledge of Mitchell, would you say he would be likely to commit suicide?
Anybody could commit suicide, if he felt low enough. I've felt it myself.
Then why not give Miss Mayfield the benefit of the doubt?
I'd be delighted to... anytime you can show me the doubt. I'll wrap it up in tissue paper and put a Christmas seals on it for her.
Thank you very much, Mrs. West.
How about a cup of coffee?
No thanks. I had some. How would you like to take a walk for, say, half and hour?
All right.
Mrs. West is a very emotional woman.
I don't know her.. or particularly want to.
You probably know the type. You find them in hotels and resorts all over the world. They always have clothes, and money, and usually have had three or four husbands. They dress and enamel themselves with great care. They worry a great deal about those little lines at the corner of the eyes.. And they demonstrate their incompetence at the art of living bet getting mixed up with people like Larry Mitchell.  Tell me about yourself, Miss Mayfield.
I was born in New York City. I grew up. And here I am.
I'll have to know a little more than that.
I'm sorry, that's all there is.
Miss Mayfield, the humor of the situation escapes me. Within 24 hours I shall know officially whether Mitchell was murdered. Privately, I'm quite sure of it now. It happened in your room, and you came to Vancouver with him.. At any rate, he made your hotel reservation.. And you arrived together. Here in this room he behaved nastily to you, and you said something to him which might be taken as a threat.  A few hours later he was found dead on your balcony. Would it be too much too suggest that all these circumstances taken together are a little suspicious?
Please answer my question.
You didn't ask a question. You made a speech.
That's an evasion and you know it.
It is?
 What are you doing here?
I don't think you locked your door.
What do you want?
See how easy it is? Perhaps Miss Mayfield left her door unlocked. Or if she didn't, there's a passkey on every floor in the linen room. The head porter has a passkey. The bell captain has a passkey. The hotel's full of passkeys.
Passkey?
Or--since one is a well-known and respected guest--one could go to the desk in the lobby and say "Miss Mayfield seems to have lost her room key--have you another"?  They always have another.
Don't be a fool. I loved him. He wasn't worth it, but I loved him.
And now that he's safe from all other women, you can go on loving him.
You nasty, sardonic--
Sardonic, if you will my dear. Bust nasty. You lied about the gun.
I'm a very observant man. You had something in your bag this afternoon, Something that causes you to hold it in a particular way. Something that made a particular sound when you put it down on the bar. You went out with Mitchell. None of us ever saw him again.
 That's not enough.
I saw your face this evening when the detective showed you the gun. You lied. It was obvious.
He saw my face too.
So he did--but he hasn't told you what he saw. I have.
They'll arrest that girl. Everything points to her.
Convenient, isn't it?
One of these days, you're going to wake up in the middle of the night and find that you've cut your throat.
How clumsy. I'd never forgive myself. Good night my dear.
You could have got in that room, just as you got in here. How do I know you didn't kill Larry?
With what motive?
Nastiness. You're nasty with words. Why wouldn't you be nasty with deeds once in a while? You hated him--and I know why.
He was very easy to hate. If you'll look in your mirror, when you are in a better temper- you'll know why.
Very silly of me, isn't it? I'm not as well-off as I was once- and I'm used to my little comforts.
That star up there is Alphard. "The lonely", they call him. I wonder why he's lonely? Perhaps he's a policeman--a celestial policeman?
Well, that's not getting us anywhere. You won't tell me who you are, or give any account of yourself. You won't even give me your address in the United States. Why? Unhappy marriage?
Who told you I was married?
There's the clear mark of a wedding ring on your finger.
I want a cigarette.
The room's full of cigarettes. But of course one would have to be handed to you.
Let me see that.
Your family coat of arms, Mr. Killaine?
 Regimental! Seaforth Highlanders.
I'm sorry.
Stop saying you're sorry. I want information, not regrets.
Would you be satisfied if I said I shot him?
What this?
Yes.
Where's you get it?
A graduation present.
That's a rather inferior grade humor. But since you're being so frank, would you mind telling me why all the labels have been removed from your clothes?
An unhappy marriage hardly seems a sufficient reason for that.
Why don't you arrest me and be done with it.
I probably shall--after I've tortured you a little more.
How are you two getting along?
Delightfully. Every time Miss Mayfield says something, I know less than I did before.  Well, I may as well knock off for tonight.  Good night, Miss Mayfield. Do let me thank you for your cooperation.
There's one thing I may as well tell you. You'll find it out anyhow. I tried to run away--when I found him out there on the balcony. There wasn't any plane.
You didn't have to tell him that.
 Why not?
Especially as I already knew it.
Bad?
Bad enough.
He could hardly help suspecting you.
That's putting it mildly.
 What time is it?
 Quarter after one. Why?
There's a lot of night left to live through.
So there is. You don't want to go to bed. I don't want to go to bed. Let's go somewhere and hear some music--have something to drink-- something to eat--even dance.
Dance? Tonight?
Let's not pretend Mitchell meant anything to either of us.
Certainly not to me.
Just who are you, anyway?
You, too?  My name is Betty Mayfield. I was born, and I am here. Message ends. That's what I told him. He didn't like it.
I'm different. I like it fine.
Nice writing--but no information (he hands the card back to clerk) I didn't expect any.
Miss Mayfield would like a little fresh air. Any objections?
In case you want to have us followed.
I don't.
Well--good night.
Cold?
Is this the best you can do?
At this time of night. It's not as bad as it looks.
Nice to see you, Mr. Brandon--and the lady. What'll you take?
 Scotch?
Scotch. The kind you buy, Magruder, not the kind you make.
Only the best for you, Mr.  Brandon.
What you need is a drink, big boy.
 Aw, go blow your nose.
Why did you bring me to such a place?
 There isn't anywhere else.
Want to dance?
Dance? Here?
Why not?
 They know you here--know your name.
I know everybody. I don't look at half of life, just the nice half, I look at all of it.
All right, then, let's dance.
That man over there. He was in the hotel lobby.
 I didn't notice him.
We walked right passed him. He's following us.
Killaine's not that sort of guy. He said no--he meant no.
Then he's got to be a detective.
Couldn't be.
Then he's-- (she breaks off, stares rigidly)
Take me out of here, please.  Right away. (Brandon just keeps looking at her.) If you don't I'll go alone.
Quite sure you saw him in the hotel lobby?
Absolutely sure.
 We'll find out.
You go out and get in the car.
The light's bad in here, but I seem to remember the face. What was the name?
All right, let's see the buzzer.
What's a buzzer?
So you're not a cop.
Me a cop? What made you think that, Mr. Brandon?
Who told you my name?
I've got good ears.
 How are your teeth getting along?
 The new ones are fine. The last set I had gave me all kinds of trouble.
What's this in favor of?
I don't like to be tailed. The lady I'm with doesn't like to be stared at. To put the matter in a couple of nutshells, I don't like you.
You wanna get tough, Mr. Brandon, you gotta know the technique. Next time, turn a little sideways, get your hip in the way. See what I mean? Good night.
 Who is he?
He's a fellow with a very hard knee, and he knows how to use it.
You don't know who he is?
He's not a cop. A cop wouldn't have kneed me.
 He was following us--but he's not a policeman.
Us?
All right--following me.
Why?
No matter. There's nothing I can do about it.
Anything I can do about it?
Take me home--and forget you ever saw me. That's a silly remark isn't it?
Try not talking.
It still doesn't matter if I kiss you?
Nothing matters.
No use waiting, then.
That's the second round I've lost tonight.  That fellow hurt me.
So have I.
From you, I like it.
Good morning. Can I do something for you?
I'm Miss Mayfield. Is Mr.  Campbell here?
I'm Mr. Campbell, Miss Mayfield.  Purely as a matter of routine, I want to ask the name of your bank.
Bank?
 Merely for our records, Miss Mayfield. It's usual for the guests who come here for the first time.
 I'm carrying quite a large sum in Travelers checks. How much of a deposit would you like?
I wouldn't dream if questioning your credit. Purely a matter of routine, for the hotel records. Just the name of your bank--
 The Hotel records, Mr. Campbell?
 I'm afraid I've been clumsy.  Please overlook it, Miss Mayfield.
Good morning, Mr. Killaine. I'm sorry I can't give you the name of my bank--because I have no bank at the moment.  That was a crude trick.
They're all crude, when they don't work. Had breakfast?
Care for a stroll outside? Beautiful morning. The air is like wine, the sky is a deep blue.
 Deep blue? I'd call it grey-blue.
You must come from pretty far South.
FLorida?
I've never been to Florida.
Good morning, Mr. Brandon.
Morning. Any calls?
Mr. Reed would like you to call him.
All right. Get him.
 And there's a Mr. Goble to see you. Says his business is personal.
Who's Goble?
I'm Goble.
I'd like a few words with you, in private.
I'm not interested in blind dates.
 Mr. Reed, please, for Mr.  Brandon.  Very well. Have him call. Mr. Brandon is in his office now.  Mr. Reed stepped out, Mr.  Brandon.
 This way.
All right. Talk it up.
 "Martin Goble. Insurance Adjuster."
Nice friendly approach you've got. Goble. I could hardly walk when I got out of bed this morning.
You asked for it.
I'm still asking. What do you want?
I'm not sure I want anything from you. You might want something from me.
Name it.
Information--protection--you might even want to hire me to go home and listen to the radio.  That's the funny part of my business-- once in a while, I get hired not to work.  Nice girl you were with last night. Known her long?
Private eye?
You guessed it. The card's phony. I got plenty of 'em. Different names, different jobs. I work out of San Francisco. Go anywhere, do anything. All it takes is the folding.
What are your rates?
$40 a day and expenses. Expenses run pretty high on a case like this. I'm a long way from home. I don't have a B.C. Licence. I'd need about $500 for a retainer.
What have you got on Miss Mayfield?
Mayfield? Oh, that girl you were with last night. You haven't hired me yet. Mr. Brandon.
 That's a nice hard knee you've got, Goble. How'd you like to trade it for a broken neck?
 Quit trying to scare me, Mr. Brandon, I'm neurotic.
I don't know whether to knock your teeth down your throat--or call the police--or just give you twenty bucks to go out and buy yourself a clean nose.
You hurt my feelings. I ought to raise the price to be a thousand.
If I call the police, your price will go down to a minus sign.
Bluff. You've waited too long.
For five hundred, what do I get?
I go home and paint the kitchen.
For two hundred?
I stick around and wait for the five hundred.
You mentioned information.
Sorry. Another client paid for that. You can hire me not to use it.
A thousand.
 Got it on you?
Got the information on you?
Get it in half an hour.
There's two hundred. I'll meet you in an hour--where we met last night
Why not here?
I don't like your perfume in my office. Make it somewhere else if you don't like Charlie's.
Charlie's suits me fine. I don't scare.
You pay the check, you pick the joint. See you.
Down below's Stanley Park. On the other side of the trees, there's a beach. You can see it. (points over to left) Steveston's over there. Coast Guard station.  There's the Yacht Club, and beyond it, the docks. The over on the other side of the inlet, there's Grouse Mountain. It's about 4000 feet high. There's a restaurant on top of it. Very nice restaurant.  I'm sorry we couldn't have met in pleasanter circumstances, Miss Mayfield.
We wouldn't have met at all.
True. I was a bit irritable last night. I apologize.
You were a galahad, compared to some cops I've known.
 You've had dealings with the police before?
Who hasn't--one way or another?
But not in the investigation of a major crime, I hope.
Is it a crime?
We're 98 per cent certain Mitchell was murdered. There are a lot of reasons.  Was he very drunk when you last saw him?
You were there when I last saw him.
I'd like to believe that. It's not too easy.
I've been talking to the Immigration Inspector who passed you across the border. He was a little suspicious of you.  Mayfield isn't really your name, is it?
I'll find out, you know. Perhaps not today--perhaps not tomorrow. But in the end, I'll find out.
The police always do, don't they?
You've has an experience that you don't want to talk about. An unhappy marriage, for example.
I wouldn't make you talk about it. My job is the death of Marry Mitchell.  Why can't you give me your confidence?
You--or the Vancouver Police Department?
We try to be decent.
You're a police officer. A very nice one--but you have a job to do. I'm a girl who's in a jam, and it's your job to keep me there. Don't go considerate on me. I might start to bawl.
You won't tell me who you are? You won't even give me a chance to help you?
Nobody can help me. You, least of all.
 If I understand what you meant by that.
You understand perfectly.
Then there isn't much I can do, is there?
There isn't anything you can do.
I came here to see Mr. Brandon.
Brandon. I was to meet him here.
I'm looking for Mr. Brandon.
The joint's not open, Mac.  Who's Brandon?
I have an appointment with him, right here, right now.
Go live in a tent.
It'll be a tough dollar when guys like you learn the alphabet.
 Talk English.  How do I know you're you?
Mr. Brandon couldn't be here.  He might have left something for you. What would it look like?
One of those nice long manila envelopes--sealed.  Not too fat- not too thin.
What do I get for it?
You get it's brother.
Sounds like a fair swap.  Let's take a look.
I need a receipt.  Sign your name across the flap.
Open it and count it.
When you sign for it, you count it.  It's your dough.
Eight hundred bucks.  Ice cream for dinner.
 You had it coming, didn't you, baby? (reaches across, shakes Goble's shoulders) Come on.  You're not that sick.
 Don't tell me you had a glass head, baby.  Oh no--not in your business. How could you live so long?
Sit down, Mrs. West.  Inspector Killaine will be along in a minute.
Thank you.
 Killaine here.  I want a radio contact to work with Handley.  A motorcycle officer will do.
Remember that time, didn't I? Good morning Mrs. West.  Does your visit here mean you've changed your mind?
 How did you know? (Killaine smiles slightly, doesn't answer) Clarendon. (Killaine still doesn't answer) You cops never tell anybody anything, do you.
Other people always know so much more than we know--so much more than they're willing to tell us.
It was Clarendon.  He knew I had the gun in my bag.
You couldn't possible have traced it this soon--not possibly.
 Of course not.  Thanks for telling me.  I haven't seen Mr. Clarendon.
I am a fool.
That depends upon your motive. You were in love with Mitchell, weren't you?
Yes--and he's already becoming vague to me.  Funny!  Last night I was furiously jealous.  Jealous of what?  I out that gun in my bag deliberately.  Who was I going to kill with it?  A girl I didn't even know?  A man I knew to be a thief and a forger?  A half-man? A gigolo?  It's already ludicrous. Love!  What a comedy!
You didn't play it for laughs last night.
Did you ever have a serious operation?
Mortar shells are not funny, either.
At first, it doesn't hurt at all. That's shock.  Then it hurts terribly--you wouldn't believe such pain could exist--and six months later you can't remember what pain felt like.  It hasn't taken six months this time.  It hasn't even taken twenty- four hours.  Is that a beastly thing to say?
Not if it clears the air.
It does.  May I go now? 
I'll investigate Mr. Clarendon's financial position--
I don't understand.
Perhaps a rich widow would have solved all his problems.
Now, you're being beastly.
Sure.  You didn't come here in person just to tell me about the gun.  You wanted me to be looking across the desk at you while you talked about Mitchell. (he pauses; Margo nods--admiration in her eyes) If I believe you, it would be psychologically impossible for you to have killed him last night.
And if you didn't believe me?
You would still have planted information that Clarendon knew about the gun--and not as an accusation, but in the process of defending yourself by making a confession.  Very neat.  Good morning, Mrs. West.
 Killaine here.
Come into my office, please, Killaine.
 Right away, sir.
Killaine, this is Mr. Mitchell, Senior.  Young Mitchell's father. He just flew in from Toronto.
 How do you do, sir.
I've explained the situation to Mr. Mitchell up to a point.  Now about this Mayfield girl?
She's a suspect, naturally.  But not the only one.
 She's the only one who had a dead man in her room.  The only one who won't give an account of herself. The only one who tried to run away. And the only one, so far, I've been told, who went to such lengths to disguise her identity that she even removed the labels from her clothes.  What more do you want?
She should have been arrested last night.
That's as may be.  We've ample grounds to detain her for questioning.  You can't deny that, surely.
No.
I hear she's a very pretty girl.
Which forces me to arrest her against my better judgment.
Aye.  You have a point there.
If so, I must say that it escapes my attention.  It is my son who has been murdered.  He was not always a good son--but he was my son.  I want his murderer punished. The girl's obviously a criminal of some sort.  Otherwise, she'd give an account of herself.  Arrest her, and you'll find out soon enough.
 I think he's right.
 Am I to interpret that as an order to arrest Miss Mayfield?
When I give an order, you'll not need it interpreted. (glances up at clock on wall) You have an hour to make your mind up. (he turns to Mitchell, Sr.) Well, are ye satisfied, Mr. Mitchell?
I'll be satisfied when my son's murderer is convicted and hanged. (pause--his expression softens a little) You've given this young man a very difficult choice.
Aye.  That was the point you said you didn't get. (he turns back to Killaine) That's all. (makes a gesture of dismissal)
Very good, sir.
May I have a moment, Inspector?
The Harbor police have just picked up a dead man out of the water.
Floater?
Not a floater.  Only just dead.
 You're the waterfront specialist. Find out about it.  I've got a murder to investigate.
You have two murders to investigate. This man's head was beaten in. And there's nothing in his pockets.
Drunk-rolling job.  They hit him too hard.
 I've been on the waterfront detail for twelve years.  This man hadn't been dead an hour.  He wasn't killed last night.  He was killed today. In broad daylight.  That's no drunk- rolling job.
 Let me know when you've identified him
 And don't get too logical, Driscoll. In police business it doesn't work. I wish it did.  But it doesn't
 I'm an Irishman, sir.  An Irishman is always logical.
 Go ahead, three-eight-six.
 Message received.  Stand by.  One- two-five.
I'll take over now.  Wait for Handley.
I'm relieving you, Handley.  Carry on with Gore at the hotel.
Very good, sir.
This isn't a very good place to talk.
I don't want to talk.
I've come here to arrest you for murder.
I expected nothing else.
I might be able to save you.  If I knew enough.
You wouldn't even try (Killaine reacts, hurt) There must be some copper in you, or you wouldn't be an inspector.
There must be-- but when I'm with you I can't find it.
 Everybody loves a guard mount-- except the guard.  My boss gave me an hour to make up my mind.  The time's almost up.
I'm about to be very silly.  A man passes a girl on the street--a very lovely girl--his eyes meet her eyes, and something reaches out and takes hold of his heart-- and then she goes on and is lost in the crowd--and he says to himself, "There goes my lost love"-- and it's true--if he never sees her again, it's still true.  Of course, after a while, he forgets-- or almost forgets--because after a while we forget almost everything. (Betty is silent, staring at him) But this man is a copper.  He gets orders--routine orders--to go to a place and investigate a murder-- and everything points to a certain girl.
Points very straight to her.
He looks at the girl, looks into her eyes--
What does he see?
Palm trees against a sunset--waves breaking on a coral reef--the Taj Mahal by moonlight--roses in an English garden, just after a shower--  Clichs, one and all--but good ones, with a lot of mileage left in them--there's one thing he does not see--murder--and murder was what he was sent to find.  Pretty ridiculous, isn't it?
Very ridiculous.
That's my hard luck--I'm man enough to tell you about it--and not be sorry.
What do your friends call you?-- The ones that know you well?--and like you very much?
They call me Jeff.
Jeff.  Shall we go now, Jeff, and get it over with?
Not quiet yet.  We know who the gun belonged to. Margo West.  She told us this morning.  It doesn't mean much.  Mitchell took it away from her.  He had a habit of going through her bag.
Looking for peanuts, I suppose.
So Mitchell had handled it. Afterwards, Brandon picked it up.  There's no indication you handled it.
I always wear gloves when I shoot people.  A bad joke--but better than tears.
EMPTY_LINE
They'll only find someone else-- who won't be so kind.
That's something I can't spare you.  But I won't do it myself.
Because you think your in love with me?
I'm enough of a copper to do my duty.  My boss made it tough for me.  If I don't arrest you, I've gone soft.  If I do, it's to save my face.  I don't play those rules.
You've got a couple of hours, maybe.
To do what?
I can't answer that.
What will they do to you?
That's they're business.  Can I drop you somewhere?
You're still a police officer, Jeff.  I saw you send those two men away. I know they were watching me.
What are you going to do--toss your job into Puget Sound?  Because I make you think of magnolias?  I thought policeman was something like a soldier.  That his duty came first.  However much he might happen hate it.
 I've been a soldier too.  There is a difference.  A policeman, like a judge, has a right to disqualify himself on proper grounds.
What proper grounds? (pause, Killaine doesn't answer) You can't be in love with me.  You hardly know me.  I'm not in love with you.
I know that.
But even if you were in love with me.
 There's an empty taxi across the street.  If you're so anxious, take it.  He'll know the way to the police headquarters.
You do things the hard way, don't you?
Sometimes.
Not sometimes.  Always.  Just because it is the hard way.  You're that kind of man, Jeff.
Goodbye, Betty.
Where to, Miss?
Downtown somewhere--anywhere.
Right you are, Miss.
Are you a policeman or a soft-headed nincompoop?
A little of both, sir, and perhaps not quiet enough of either.
It won't look pretty good on your record, Killaine.  Where's the girl now?
I don't know, sir.
Well, find out.  Who's covering her?
Nobody's covering her, I detached the officer assigned to that duty.
This girl is a murderess, Killaine.
I disagree, sir.  As Inspector in charge of the case I have the right to form that opinion, the right to act on it.
Ye have, have ye?
We lifted seven fairly good prints from Miss Mayfield's toilet articles.  Washington ought to teletype us within a few hours.
 And in the meantime this girl goes where she pleases, does what she pleases?
Yes, sir.
 "Superintendent J. Mckechnie, Vancouver Police Department. Vancouver B.c. Replaying To Your E.P. teletype classification No. 2684 incomplete.  We advise identification possible.  Elizabeth Kinsolving, arrested Greenwater, North Carolina, January 8, 1948, on a charge of murder.  Signed, FBI., Washington, D.C. H. Cleary, Inspector in charge." (McKechnie looks up and meets Killaine's eyes) Have ye any comment, Killaine?
Identification on possible, Sir. Not conclusive.
 "Superintendent J. McKechnie, Vancouver Police Department. Replying your inquiry Elizabeth Kinsolving.  Subject was indicted, first degree murder her husband, Lee Kinsolving, January this year. Guilty verdict set aside by presiding judge.  Prisoner discharged, Whereabouts now unknown. Fingerprint classification"-- (he holds up the other telegram and looks at Killaine) And exact correspondence, Killaine.
 She bleached her hair, or course.  Would your sensibilities be offended, if I sent out a general alarm to pick up this girl?
I think you'd be entirely justified, sir.
 But you still think she's innocent.
I do.
I think you'd like to have this.
I believe you won decorations during the war.
Two.
There are people in this world who don't think a police badge is a badge of honor.  I'm not one of them.
Nor I. This is why I gave it to you.
 You're a young man.  You're romantic.  You think a pretty face and a clean conscience go together. You think a soft voice means a soft heart.  You'll grow out of that.
Not too far, I hope.
 It's a naked steel of the sword of Justice.  Put it back in your pocket and hold tight to it--and someday you might grow into a worthiness ye lack now.
Get out of here!
What are my orders, sir?
You think I'm wrong about this bit of a girl.  Go out and prove it against me!
Condense these for an immediate all-stations pick-up order.
Kid Galahad.  The Knight of the White Plume.  Jess Holmes, the fool killer.  Boy, you look wonderful in a tank--with the turret closed.
Got a moment, Inspector?
I've got a year.  Or a second. I'm not sure which.
You told me when we'd identified this fellow--
We've done that.  He's a San Francisco private eye.  Name Martin J. Goble, G-O-B-L-E.  Had initials in his hat and for once he lived where he bought it.  Goble and Greer is the firm name.
 Swimming with his hat on?  That's original.
If you'd seen the blood on his head--and some body had to carry him out to sea--
I understand.  Pity to mess up a nice clean boat.
 I got through to Greer, his partner in the detective business.  Greer won't give out.
EMPTY_LINE
Send that?
 Would you?
 If you're asking my opinion, no. I'd read it to Greer over the phone. Ask him if he had any objections.
Catch me at the Vancouver Royal if it's important.
How important would it have to be? It's only murder, Inspector.
The Super's just given me the sweetest dressing down I've ever had.  I'm still reeling from it. And believe me, I had it coming. I apologize.  What you think is important--I think is important.
 Thanks, Inspector.  What are your orders about this wire to San Francisco?
Men like you don't need orders.
Time for a little chat?
If it doesn't take too long.  Drink?
Thanks.  I don't mind.
Here you are.
Thanks.  Lovely view you have, haven't you?
I never notice the view after the first week.
I would.  Fancy waking up every morning with that in your lap. (he gestures towards the view) Wonderful thing, money is.  Remember what Somerset Maugham said about it ?
I wouldn't know.
"Money is a sort of sixth sense that gives meaning to all the others." Very appealing, especially to a poor man.
Could we discuss that some other time?
Sure.  Let's discuss Betty Mayfield.  How long since you saw her?
A couple of hours.
I have a warrant for her arrest.
That must hurt.
I've always thought you were a pretty nice guy, Brandon.  I'd like to go on thinking so.  If you tried to help her get away--
Would that make me a heel?
You'd be breaking the law.
Doesn't answer the question.
The only answer I have for you.
You passed up a dozen chances to arrest her.  What toughened you up?
Information.
Don't kid me.  You don't think she murdered Mitchell.
It could have been an accident.
That COULD BE TOLD.
Not if she knew she wouldn't be believed.
Your concentrating too hard, Killaine.  What about Margo West? She had a motive.  I guess you know by this time whose gun it was?
And old man Clarendon?  He had a motive, too.  Margo and her money.
Mitchell was killed down here.  How could Clarendon get in to do it?  Or Margo for that matter.
How could Mitchell?  After that act he put on up here, is it likely she'd let him in?
She didn't have to.  He could have climbed down from here.
Mitchell was too drunk.
Or just drunk enough.  He was with her when she registered.  He knew where her room was.  You were out most of the evening.  There was a lot of mess to clean up . Waiters coming and going, the door standing open.  Suppose Mitchell came in to grab a drink for himself, then wandered out on this balcony, then realized betty's balcony was just below yours.
Romeo in reverse.  Uh-uh.  No sale, Killaine.
You don't buy it.  Okay.  So I still want Betty Mayfield.  Where is she?
No idea.
Excuse me.  My phone.
Hello.
 Sorry.  It's not very convenient just now.
 I had no right to call you anyway. I've made you enough trouble.  I-- I think I know what to do--if they'll let me.
 It sounds like a fair location. Could you be a little more exact?
I'm in the Hudson Bay Company's store.  That man last night--the one that followed me--
I don't think that's on the market anymore.  I'd like something much closer to the water.
Cant be too close for me.  Right across the street from it suits me.  Anything else listed?
 There's another man--right outside the booth here.  I never saw him Before.
You're probably mistaken about that.  Let's get together sand talk it over.  There's always a solution to these problems.  But it must be near the water.  Quite near--  Yes, if you don't mind waiting.
Close to the water.  Like last night.  I'll try.  Goodbye.
 I'm sorry I kept you waiting.
Don't give it a thought, Miss. Matter of fact, waiting is my trade.
 Pardon me, Madam.  Is that your handkerchief?
No more for me, thanks.  Remember what I said.  I can't interfere with the law.
Where would she go, anyway.  Don't tell me you haven't got her covered.
Mitchell was a heel.  We both know that.  Why take it for granted that somebody in the hotel knocked him off?
You forgetting the gag line, Killaine.  The police don't take anything for granted.
I'm afraid they do.  Far too often. So long.
Wait a minute.  I'll go with you.
 You do a lot of real estate trading, Brandon?
Now and then.  Mostly just for the fun of it.
I tried it once.  I lost my shirt.
 I buy my shirts by the dozen. Fortunately.
 Where did it all come from?  Or is that a permissible question?
I had a father who knew how to steal.
 What?
You asked me where it all came from.
 Oh.  That was just one of those idle questions.  One doesn't expect an answer.
 I think I'd like to take another look at Mr. Mitchell's room.
I don't know why.  As a matter of fact, I don't know anything.
 It's about time you did--know something.
I agree with you perfectly.  But when did time ever help a fool?
Nothing.  She hasn't shown.
Check the boat?
Gore's out doing it now.
 Must be almost tea-time  I'll be in Mitchell's room.
Hop in.
I hated to go to that place.  I almost went to the police station instead.
No percentage in that.
They're going to arrest me.
I know.  Killaine has a warrant.
 I have my own warrant.  Stop a minute, please.
 "Dear Inspector Killaine: This is goodbye.  You were right, I had a secret.  You were right, I changed my name.  I tried to hide from the past and I walked into almost the same situation that I had run away from.  I didn't kill Larry Mitchell, but I can't prove it.  I couldn't prove it the other time, either. Where I am going, nothing has to be proved.  There's a lot of water between Vancouver and the U.S.A. In  that, and in you.  Vancouver has been kind to me.  I think you will understand.  Betty Mayfield.
If you meant it, you wouldn't show it to me, Betty.  Or am I supposed to deliver it to dear Inspector Killaine?
 Wrote it in the waiting room of the Hudson Bay Store.  With somebody's Pekingese trying to climb into my lap.  Perhaps you're right.  Perhaps I didn't mean it. All I know is that I'm licked.
 There's a lot of water between Vancouver and the U.S.A. This note is a suicide note.  After you're gone where would they look for you?  Why would they look for you? Darkness, and open water, and a fast cabin cruiser.  And I have a pocket full of money.  And if I helped you, I'd be committing a crime, or so they tell me.
That wasn't why I called you.  Why did I hope--when I hadn't any right to hope?
How bad is it?  Bad enough for-- (he taps pointing to the note)
Yes.  I've never been very far from it, for a long time.  Will you do something for me?
Take me where I haven't the courage to take myself.
How bad is the other thing?  The secret?
I was tried for murdering my husband.  Guilty.  The judge set the verdict aside.  There was one man on the jury-- (she pauses, shakes her head) --but he was afraid.  They were all afraid--of my father-in-law. That man followed me last night-- he came from him of course.  My father-in-law will never give up. Never.  He promised me that.  So I came to Vancouver, B.C. As far away as I can get from North Carolina.  And it happens all over again.  Almost the same thing. Almost the same way.  Do you wonder about this--
This is the ace, Betty.  But not of spades.  They'll find out about the other.  They might know already. And when they get this-- (he holds up the note again) What would they look for?  Where? Out there somewhere? (he points towards the open water beyond the ships)
They'll look for you.
I run over to Victoria.  Play some golf with some people I know.  Do it all the time.  That's why I have a cabin cruiser.  Custom- built.Forty knots.  Mr Clark Brandon an almost gentleman of almost complete leisure.  Member of six golf clubs.  Broke 70 once on the Shaughnessy Heights Course.  You have to be good to do that, And if you look out of a front window of the Empress Hotel in Victoria, in a few hours you can look right down on Mr. Brandon's boat, the Valkyrie.  Came alone?  Sure.  He always comes alone.  Mr Brandon's a rather lonely man.
 And Betty Mayfield--
Blonde, beautiful, and sad--and nowhere.  Of course she might have run away--if she knew how.  And where to go.  She might have dyed her hair.  Bleached it before probably.  And changed her name again.  But look at this note.  And look at her room in the hotel. Her stuff is all there.  Hasn't a rag except what she stood up in. You don't run away like that.  Not if you are young and beautiful. No chance.
 But that's what I'm doing.  Couldn't they think of that?
If they had any reason to.  Why make it tough for themselves?  Why go to all that trouble?  Here's an open book.  Close it.  No reason to keep it open.  She was a nice girl, anyway.  And perhaps she didn't kill him on purpose.  Perhaps she didn't kill the other one. You never know.  Give her the benefit of the doubt.  Leave her stay where she is.  Close the book. Finis.
Killaine...
The best interference runner we've got.  He thinks he's in love with you--and he's a gentleman.  Come here, baby.
I'm not.  Or I wouldn't be doing this right now.  Even if I didn't like you, I'd have to do it.  Like the guy that was dealt thirteen spades in a bridge hand.  Or filled an ace- high flush.  You couldn't get him out of that game to give him the Pulitzer Prize.
 Must be raid day at Magruder's. They always raid him before he opens, so he won't lose any business.
 I want a man from the I-Bureau down here as soon as possible. There's some stuff in the waste basket I'm afraid to handle.
What always throws me about people like you is that you're so stupid. Don't you know these things have numbers on them?  And that they have to be registered if they're owned legally?  And that if we find a man dead with his pocket's empty--and identify him and find out he's a private detective from San Francisco--
 It needs music.
 All we have to do is call the San Francisco Police and get numbers for his guns.  For the love of the Saints, Magruder, if you're going into the murder business, why don't you learn a few rules?  You must have been pretty desperate to move him out of here in broad daylight.
 Don't you know we have people down in the district working for us? They might look like tramps to you, and some of them are.  But they have eyes.
 The guy pulled a gun on me.  I thought it was a stick-up.  I hit him with a sap.  Why wouldn't I? Maybe I hit him too hard, and it scared me.  I wanted to get him away from here.  A guy like me don't always get believed by guys like you.
You had over sixteen hundred dollars in your pocket, a thousand of them in twenty-dollar bills.  With a kind of new look about them at that.  Would you be interested in what I think about this, Magruder?
 Hold him.  He's trying to sag on us.
 This man Goble rented the car, gave a false name.  He had no licence, no identification.  But he put up a sufficient deposit. He was a suspicious man.  He was on a dubious errand.  He had a gun in his pocket and I'm thinking one of these manila envelopes-- (he points to the waste basket) Contained those sheets of blank paper which he was going to sell for money.  And get out before anybody looked at what he'd sold. You had the money, Magruder.  But you didn't give it to him.  You killed him instead.
 Perhaps you didn't mean to kill him.  But here he was dead, and his car was outside in the street. So you brought it around to the alley and you carried the man down to it, and you drove him away. And what happened to him after that, nobody knows until he was picked out of the water of the Sound, dead.  But not long dead. Where did you leave the car, Magruder?  Who helped you?  What boat did you have? (pauses. His voice changes to a dry business-like tone addressing the other dick) All right.  Take him in.  Set him down.  Give him what he wants to make him comfortable.  And get a stenographer.  And warn him.  And don't rough him.  He's a nice little man.  All he wants is to collect his thoughts.  And then he'll tell us the whole story in his own words. (his voice becomes positively corny) Won't you, Magruder, darling?
 He'll be giving the priest a bad time, this one.  Maybe You'd better call an ambulance.  He might have a wonky ticker.
Over this way.
You'll be safe here.  I won't be long. (puts a bunch of keys on the table) Help yourself to anything you want. The galley's through there. (he points to a door up forward) You can make coffee if you like.
 This must have cost a fortune.
It did, but it never paid off-- until now. (he looks at his watch) I ought to be back within an hour. We can't leave until near dark anyway.
Do you have to leave the note?
It's the frame on the picture. But not if you say so.
I'd still go through--even if I ended up in jail.
You wouldn't like it.  I've been there.
 My father died in jail, and he was twice the man I am.
 Well?
 You leave it.
C.V.P.L. Vancouver Police Department.  Repeating.  All points Bulletin No.  611.  General alarm. Wanted for questioning.  A young woman.  American.  Using the name Betty Mayfield, formerly Elizabeth Kinsolving of Greenwater, North Carolina.  Height five feet one and a half inches.  Weight 118 pounds.  Hair blonde, may be dyed darker.  Blue eyes.  Slender build. Size 4AA shoes.  Quiet refined manner.  Any person answering this description should be held, Communicate immediately with Superintendent J. McKechnie, Vancouver City Police, Vancouver, B.C., for F.P. Classification.
Outlying cities and towns please rebroadcast.  Coast Guard stations please rebroadcast.  Suspect may attempt to cross border.  C.V.P.L. Vancouver City Police, Vancouver, B.C. I will repeat this bulletin.
She didn't seem the type to lam out--even if she got the chance. That stuff was all gone through last night.  Anything special you're looking for, Inspector?
I'll know when I find it.
I guess I'm just ballast around here.
You get those from rich women--if you are the kind of guy Mitchell was.
 "G.G. Market one-eight-four-two."
Gigi, huh?  Sounds French--one of those fancy ladies.  Must have been very fancy, if he scratched her phone number in gold.
 Market... It seems to me that's a San Francisco exchange.
 Killaine's wise.  We can't wait any longer.  Here, put this on. (he opens locker, picks out an oilskin coat, hand sit to her) But stay out of sight until we clear the harbor.  I'll tell you when. (gets another oilskin out of the locker, puts it on himself)
Killaine's wise to what?
I'm getting a little tired of this, Sergeant.  Mr. Brandon's a valued guest in this hotel.  We've known him for a long time.  I don't like this prowling into people's rooms.
How many people in your hotel know a man was murdered here, Mr.Campbell?  Apart from you and the people questioned?
 None, as far as I know.
And you don't like our methods, huh?
That's all.  Thanks, Mr. Campbell.
I insist--
That's all.  Thanks, Mr. Campbell.
 I'm coming up.
 I'm all right.
 That's pretty risky business, Inspector.
Somebody did it twice last night-- in the dark.
Once to put that in the position where it is now.  And the second time to move it where we found it.
Not too hard, is it?
 Maybe we've been pretty dumb--
 There wasn't any motive...let's try out the act.
I have a gun.  It's not loaded. Pretend it is.  I'm drunk.  I took the gun away from Margo West.  Now I've said something to you that you don't like.  I don't like the look in your eyes, either.  I've pulled the gun.  Take it away from me.  And while you're taking it away from me, it goes off.  Ready?
Let's go.
Was that about the right angle?
I think so.
Where's the shell?
Should be over there.
Pick it up.  Put it in your pocket.
The same with the gun.
You've got a dead man on your hands. You killed jim--even if it wasn't murder.  What are you going to do about it?
If I've got any sense I'm going to call headquarters.
They'll probably believe you.  But they'll want to know what you were fighting about.  Why Mitchell had a gun.  You'll tell them a simple story.  They'll pretend it sounds all right to them.  Now you're headquarters.  How does it sound to you?
Before I took the story and closed the case, I'd want to know a lot more about these people.  I'd want to know just about everything about them.
 Exactly.  Now I'm the killer.  And there's something I don't want you to know.  Something that would destroy my comfortable life, rob me of my friends, my position.
Such as?
Assume there is something to hid. I go to a lot of trouble.  What do I do?  What would you do?
Do I know who lives down there?
You can find out.
Do I know that she's out of the room?  Likely to be out of it for some time?
You can find out the first part. The second part you have to take a chance on.
Pretty big chance, huh?
You've got a dead man on your hands. Like this.
Right--
Let go.
Next?
 What about the gun?
Well.  What about it?
I've handled it.  Mitchell's handed it.  If I wipe it off, no suicide. If I take it out and lose it, no suicide.  If I leave it here....no suicide.
So?
I've got to find a way to handle it, openly.  Like Brandon.
 How did he know he'd get the chance? He couldn't have arranged it.
He could have tried.  If he was up there in the dark, listening, he'd know when she came home, know when she found Mitchell dead, know what she did about it.  If she telephoned, he'd probably hear that.
And she did give him the chance, the way it worked out.
If she didn't--if luck was against him--he wipes the gun off, reaches the wall up there--drops it on the chaise.
No suicide.
Did we ever really think it was suicide?
You win, Inspector.  You win all along the line.  Why didn't we think of Brandon before--or did we-- some of us. (pause, then answering himself) Yeah.  Of course you did.  When a suspect thinks he's safe, you go on letting him think he's safe. Wait for a mistake.
And a motive--which we haven't got.  So this could all be a dream.
Market one-eight-four-two.
Greer and Goble in the Call Building, San Francisco.  Just like you thought...Two murders in two days.  Different places, different methods, different people. Nothing connects them, but a telephone number.
 A think wire---but very, very strong.  Let's get out of here.
See anything?
I can still see the shoreline. The moon is rising.
There would be a moon tonight.
Cold?
Frozen.
Go down into the cabin and get yourself a drink.  Careful how you go, we're hitting the swell now.
I decided I didn't want a drink...I'm beginning to wonder.
Wonder what?
If you're doing all this just for me.
That, and the fun of it.
I thought you had to be back to the hotel.  To leave my--my note.
That's right.
See anything up there?
Funny, I never thought of you that way.  You were so close too.  We were all pretty stupid about you.
 Including Killaine.
 Including Killaine...I still can't think of you that way.
 I told you my father died in jail. He stole a fortune.  Most of it pretty dirty money.  I don't care to have that known.
 Larry Mitchell found out.  So you killed him.
In a way.
If it was an accident, you could have told the truth.
So could you.  But our records were a little against us.
What your father did doesn't condemn you.
Nobody believed I wasn't in on it. I was just a dumb-smart collage boy, and he was my father.  I thought it was a legitimate business.  He was a politician, with fingers in a lot of pies.  I never saw the pies.  They had names. For the record.  Innocent names.  You know where that kind of money comes from, don't you?
The money that makes you Mr. Clark Brandon.  Let's you live in a penthouse, on top of the Vancouver Royal.  Lets you own a cruiser. Lets you do as you please, go where you please.  You big, open-handed, generous guy.  That's the kind of money it takes, isn't it?
It buys things, just like any other kind.
That man that was following us last night--he didn't come back this morning.  I'm beginning to wonder about him, too.  Was he really following me--or you?
No.  I paid him off.
He'll come back...They always come back when you give them money.
Not this one.  And not Mitchell.
 You-killed-him?
 Nobody in the world would believe I didn't plan the whole thing.
I guess I'm a little screwy.  Maybe I could believe it.  Should I try?
Don't go soft on me, baby.  I've got your note in my pocket.  You wrote it, all by your own self. And I have to use it.  It has to be found in exactly the right place.
So that I will never be found.
Got anything on the Goble case yet?
Yes, I think so.  Here are two glazed manila envelopes.  One is the bag type.  The other one had the money in it.  Don't ask me how I know.  I know.
I'm interested in who handled it.
Four different people, Inspector. Three men and a women.  I've made slides for two.  They handled both envelopes.
Goble.  Second finger on left hand. On the left, the morgue print.  On the right, print lifted from the envelope.
No doubt about that one.
How about Magruder?
He checks too.
That leaves two strangers.
So far.
Try Betty Mayfield.  The Mitchell case.
 Mayfield?  She fit into this?
 She might.
You'll have to take my word for it.  We don't make slides until we have perfect prints for comparison.
I'll take your word.
Not a chance.  Whorl and plain arch. Different as salt and sand.
Try this one for the second stranger.
Gun permit, huh? (he lines up two cards, studies them) Another Whorl--man size.
This gun permit was issued to Clark Brandon?
The card says so, doesn't it?
Brandon handled the money envelope.
What's the face for, Driscoll?
Magruder's conked out.  Adrenaline injections, oxygen tent.  He may come out of it and he may not.  As a source of quick information, we can't forget him.
We don't need him.
Go on in.  See what they've got. All I need now is a warrant and a pair of wings.
Inspector Killaine.  Vancouver City Police.  Commander Goodwin's expecting me.
Very good, sir.
 C.G.L. at all cutters and patrol planes on station.  Vancouver Police Department bulletin.  Wanted for murder.  Clarke Brandon.  A naturalized Canadian citizen.  Age 34-35.  Height six feet, one inch. Weight 190 pounds.  Muscular build. Dark hair.  American accent.  Now probably at sea in cabin cruiser Valkyrie.  Will probably attempt to cross International line under cover of darkness.
 Get down in the cabin, Betty.
Why?  To love ten minutes longer? And in the meantime, protect you? (her voice becomes taunting) Why don't you shoot me now and get it over with--
If you think you have the time.
 Always some fog out here.
There better be.
You hoped I'd jumped overboard, didn't you?
But I wouldn't make it that easy for you.
 Bearing one-three-five. (to Coast Guard officer) Bearing one-three-five, sir.
One-three-five, sir.
 Fog!
Brandon will have counted on that.
 You'll never make it.  You've out- smarted yourself.
 I'm still on course to Victoria. Nobody saw you get on board, nobody seen you since.
You didn't leave the note.
It wasn't the time or place.  Don't worry about the note, baby.  I'm playing for my neck now.
And I'm begging for my life--and yours.
 Mine?
Yes.  Yours.  You haven't murdered anybody.  You killed Mitchell. Wasn't that an accident?  It must have been.  If you kill a blackmailer, you kill him dead--so that he can't talk anymore.
Mitchell was dead enough.
And that nasty man that followed us last night.  You didn't kill him.
Who'd believe it but you?  I took him out to sea and threw him in the water.  Even if they find him, what connects him with me?
Magruder does.
You think Magruder wants to hang beside me?
But the next one is murder.  First the little step, then the longer step , and then the step you can never take back.  You could tell about Mitchell.  You could tell about Magruder--and the detective. It would hurt, but you could do it.  You could never tell about me.
Would I want to?
Every day of your life you'll want me.  You'll never get over it. Every time you see your face in the mirror--
 Shut up!  Cut it out!  Even if I have to kill both of us--
 Just a minute, sir.  I believe--
 Change course about five degrees south
 Your dead on now.  Hold it there.
Radar.
This is it, Betty.  They'll find us again, fog or no fog.
 But so is everything else.  And there's you.
 Me?
Yes.  You.  You're not really a murderer yet.
 Bearing one-eight-one. (to Coast Guard officer) One-eight-one, sir.  Changed course due South.
 One-eight-one..
One-eight-one, sir.
 I'm not a murderer yet, you said. Come here.  Come closer.  Let me look at you.
 I think you mean that.
Do you think I was faking?
 If I did-I don't-now.
The kiss of death.  With a new twist.
 "Dear Inspector Killaine.  This is goodbye.  You were right.  I had a secret."
A secret, Betty---as who hasn't
 Stand up!  Let them take a good look at you.  Be sure they see you.  That fellow back there has night glasses.  Then jump---well out to the side.  Just as far as you can.
Full speed astern.
Thank you.  Thank you very much.
 He could have killed me a dozen times.  You'd never have known.
We know everything.
 No, Jeff.  You don't.  He's not a murderer, I tell you.  He;s not a murderer.
 I hope he can prove it.  Come on. You don't want to get pneumonia.
But I tell you---if you'd only understand.
 I understand, Betty.  I understand perfectly.
You always have this kind of weather up here?
Certain times of the year.  Always a lot of fog.  But they never hit anything, somehow.
 An old packing case, I guess.
