 What's your name girl?
What's your name?
My name is Precious Jones. I wanna take tap dance lessons. Mama said we can't afford it.
Plus she say who wanna see me dancing anyway. I goes to I.S. 111. In Harlem. New York. Today I was almost late. That'd a been a problem.
Class, would you please turn to page 122 ...Class! 122!
I like maff but I don't say nuffin' -don't open my book even. Just sit there.
Boys?
Page 122 please.
Everyday I tell myself something gonna happen, like I'm gonna break through or somebody gonna break through to me -I'm gonna learn, catch up, be normal, sit in the front ...someday.
Today we are going to review Monday's assignment. Would anyone like to begin?
Boys! ! !
I like Mr. Wicher. I pretend he my husband and we live in Weschesser, whereever that is. I can see by his eyes Mr. Wicher like me too. I wish I could tell him all the pages in my book look the same to me, but I can't..
Excuse you?!
I want to see you boys after class.
Sorry Mr. Wicher but you ain't my type. Grow some tits.
Just be quiet.
I feels sorry for Mr. Wicher. He do his best but he ain't got no voice. He scared too. I feels sorry for him.
Shut up motherfuckers, I'm trying to learn something! Hard enuff wiffout you stupid clowns carryin' on!
 ...sorry Precious.
 We cool.
Stupid asses... Go on 'bout cha lesson Mr. Wicher. They ain' gonna give you no more trouble today.
I'm like the polices for Mr. Wicher. Tha's why I can't be late to maff.
Now dis ...
Claireece ...
What this bitch want? Claireece ... Only motherfuckers I hate call me Claireece.
You gonna be okay Mr. Wicher?
 Of course Precious. Thank you.
Are you pregnant? You're sixteen, still in junior high school and pregnant with your second child. Correct Claireece? Claireece are you pregnant again?
Do you have any thoughts about your situation?
 Claireece, I'm talking to you.
Claireece?!
Am I in trouble?
What?
Am I in trouble?
...No.
 Then I don't want to miss no more of maff class.
 Sit down Claireece.
 You know what I think? I think we should have a parent-teacher conference - me, you and your mom.
My muver is busy.
Well maybe I could arrange to come to your house.
Well then Claireece, I'm afraid I'm going to have to suspend you.
For what?
You're pregnant.
That ain't fair. I ain' done nuffin! I doose my work. I ain' in no trouble. My grades is good...
Your attitude is one of total uncooperation and that won't help a thing...
Now according to our records, your mother also looks after the child. Is that correct?
No kids on her pictures. Maybe she jealous. I still don't say nuffin.
Are you in contact with the father?  Is he at all involved in your child's care?
Thas when I knew I'd never get back to maff class ...Lawd I hate this hoe.
SECURITY! SECURITY!
You get my cigarettes?
 No Mama, I dropped some of my thangs on the way to school.
 Daddy?
 I SAID I'M HONGRY YOU FAT LITTLE PIGGY CUNT BITCH!!! Git your Jezebel ass up and git to dinner 'fore I give you something to cry about.
...I ain' gon' say it again.
Tell them assholes to stop ringing my bell.
Stop ringing the goddam buzzer motherfucker!
Stop ringing the goddam buzzer.
Stop it!
Stop it!
Press LISTEN stupid.
It's Sondra Lichenstein for Claireece and Ms. Mary Johnston.
Who that Precious?
White bitch from school.
Lord, where is crack addicts when you need 'em...
What she want?
I don't know.
Ask her stupid.
What you want?
I want to talk to you about your education.
Eighty-six that bitch.
This bitch crazy. 'Sides, my muver don't want to get cut off welfare and that's what Mrs. Lichenstein comin' to visit result in. It's hard to believe a hoe dis retarded sposed to educate somebody.
Git outa here Mrs. Lichenstein 'fore I kick your ass.
Claireece I am so sorry about today. I only want to help you. I ...Mr. Wicher says you're one of his best students and that you have an aptitude for math -or at least potential.  I've called a Mrs. McKnight at Higher Education Alternative / Each One Teach One. It's an alternative school.  Claireece, are you listening?
Claireece, did you hear me?
Yeah.
I've called Ms. McKnight at Each One Teach One. It's located on the nineteenth floor of the Hotel Theresa on 125th Street. That's not too far from here.
I know where that is.
The phone number is 555-0831. I told them about you. Call or drop in, nineteenth floor.
I heard you the first time.
Listen Claireece... If you go down tomorrow.... Look, they have just started their semester. You may be a day or 2 late... Give it a try.
I don't know what an alternative school is but I feel I want to know...
My heart is all warm...Mr. Wicher say I'm a good student.
19   CONTINUED:                                                19 Mary watches her go and then struts back to the television speaking to herself.
School can't help none. Go down welfare. Who she think she is?
Where you going?
You hear me talking to you?!
Precious when we gon' play?
 Ain' you s'posed to be in school?
You said we was gon' play.
See, thas jus exackly why we ain' gon' be playin'. I never said nuffin like it.
Why not?
Cause you a mess. Look at ya' -no style, no friends, no mama, no daddy.
So?! I ain' the only one.
What you say?!
...nuffin.
Thas what I thought.
I check in wif you tomorrow Precious.
You do that.
I'm lookin' up. Lookin' out for a piano to fall, a desk, couch, TV, Mama maybe? Always somethin' in the way. Alternative. I'm gon' see all about it.
Watch where you goin' Orca!
Then my mind come back down to Earf.
Shut up fool, she gon' eat you.
Boyz always been little things that laff and grab they selves -cept for when I's real big and pregnant wif my first baby. Then boyz don't say nuffin. They stand out the way real quiet like I'm Queen of England...
Still, I wonder...what could I wear that boyz don't laff?
I always be fallin like that when my mind be wanderin. Mama say I gonna fall to my death one day. Wonder what that be like?
Why do you say that shit when you don't mean it Trey? I'm not playing with you and I know that wasn't your damn sister neither....because you don't have one...Fine. Yeah, whatever.
This the alternative?
 The what?
This the alternative?
What exactly are you looking for?
 Well what is this here?
This is Higher Education Alternative / Each One Teach One.
I'm looking for alternative school.
This is an alternative school.
What alternative is?
What are you asking me?
Each One Teach One is an alternative school and an alternative school is like a choice, a different way to do something.
Oh.
You need your discharge papers from your old school saying they have formally discharged you or we can't allow you in the program.
I got kicked out 'cause I was pregnant.
You still need formal discharge papers or we can't let you in. It's the law.
Mrs. Lichenstein ain' say all that.
Oh you're the one Mrs. Lichenstein called about.
What she say?
 Are you Claireece P. Jones?
Thas me.
Well the principal at I.S. 111 already sent your discharge papers and stuff over.
Your academic record.
Are you all right?
I thought this was new start. File and tesses chase me to the grave.
Claireece?
Huh?
We had to have certain information before we could accept you into the program. So really, their sending your records over was just a way of speeding things up for you.
Can I start today?
Yup. The only other thing we need right now is income verification. Are you currently receiving AFDC?
No...My muver get AFDC for me and my daughter.
Oh, you've had amniocentesis?
Huh?
You said your mother has custody of you and your daughter?
Oh I see. Your mother has custody of you and your daughter so you're on her budget.
Okay, well I need a copy of your mother's budget and a current phone or utilities bill, okay?
I got to go get all that now?
No, relax. We're just gonna give you a few tests -test your reading and math level, see where to place you.
What's the difference?
Well, to enter G.E.D. classes a student should be able to read on an eighth-grade level. They should score 8.0 or better on the TABE reading test.
I was in ninfe grade at I.S. Ill.
 Then you should have no problem.
Here come the wide load...
Precious sits with an absent look on her face and a bead of sweat on her temple. A moment later, a shadow moves over her test.
Claireece, do you need another pencil?
Claireece ...
Are you finished?
There has always been something wrong wif the tesses ...
...The tesses paint a picture of me wif no brain. The tesses paint a picture of me 'an my muver -my whole family as less than dumb just ugly black grease to be wiped away, punished, caged up, kilt, changed, finded a job for.
Sometimes I wish I was not alive. I be O.K. I guess.
Today is first day. I been tessed. I been incomed eligible. I got my medicaid card, proof of address, self, pencil, notebook -alla dat shit.
MA! !!
MA! !!
What?!
I need some money.
For what?
 How much you need?
Five dollars.
 Come and git it then.
Where you going?!
The other day I cried, felt stupid. Guess what...Fuck that other day. Thas why God or whoever make new days. Still hungry tho.
What you want baby?
Give me a basket please.
Sides?
Ain't sure. still thinkin'. Watchin' the weight you know.
Potato salad! Thas it.
REGGIE!!! GET HER!!!
Reggie, where you been? I've been paging your tired ass all night.
Nigga, I knew that was you. And who you running after, some fat bitch. Get your ass over here.
You gon catch indigestion Mommie.
 ...What else would get away with clouding your mind, messin your heart and leaving the goddamn toilet seat up? Wait a minute girl....
Each One Teach one, hold please.
Each One Teach One, hold.
Yeah, I'm back.
B49   CONTINUED:                                               B49 MS. RAIN, PETITE, AFRICAN AMERICAN, BEAUTIFUL, THIRTIES, ALERT EYES enters the hallway looking at her watch and then up to Precious.
You alright?
Are you in the A.B.E. class?
Yes.
This is it.
Time's a wastin'.
You in or you out? This door closes in thirty seconds.
First thing I wonder is where is everybody -the boyz, the noises ...this feel like a Sunday school or crazy house...or something like bof' but different. Smell different too.
Have a seat.
Does everyone have her notebook?
It's 9:07. Jo Ann you're late.
 I had to. Most important meal of the...
Starting tomorrow, this door will be locked at 9:00.
Class, today we have some new people so let's just...
Ooh! Hold up! wait up! Hold up! I found something!
I beg your pardon Jo Ann!
2000 'pologies Miz Rain but I jus' want to say, do anyone need an extra notebook I foun' in the chicken place?
It's mine!
Okay hoe. I found your Cadillac too. It's parked out front.
I leff it! I did! I leff it at the Kickin Fried Chicken on Lenox tween one-two-seven and one-two-six this morning.
...Alright girl, I was just fuckin' with you.
Mind your mouth in here Jo Ann.
What I say?!
Just watch the language.
 When you due?
Since we have more new people than old people today, let's just go back to square one and get to know each other. State your name, where you were born, your favorite color, something you do well and why you're here.
What?!
I'll start. My name is Blu Rain ...
What?!
That's my for real, hope to die if I'm lying name.
Your first name Blue?
Yes it is. My favorite color is purple...
Off da bat sumthin' different wif dis lady. She like to sing. I wish I could sing. Go to church. Sing on a choir. Mama say ain't no God. Dis lady remind me Mr. Wicher but more a man and like Miss Lichenstein 'cept not a cuckoo. Dress like she ride in out the village too.
...What do I do well? I sing pretty well. And I'm here because a good friend used to teach at this school. She was out one day and asked me to substitute for her. When she quit, they asked me if I wanted the job. I said yes and I've been here ever since. Rhonda?
My name Rhonda Patrice Johnson. I was born in Kingston Jamaica ...
Big redbone girl big like me      My favorite color is blue. but don't talk funny like how     I cook good. My mother usta coconut head peoples do.          have a restaurant on Seventh Ave. Before she got sick, she taught me everything. I'm here to bring up my reading so I could get my G.E.D.
Skinny Spanish girl seem a       ...and never got my reading little sad but maybe jus         and writing together. My quiet. Could be bofe. I check    favorite color is black but I into it.                         guess you could tell that.
What do you do good?
Well. What do you do well Jo Ann?
 I'm a good mother, a very good mother.
My name is Jermaine. My favorite color...
Tell us where you born first.
 I was born in the Bronx, still live there...
What the hell is going on in h                                ...Red is my favorite color. kere? Is she a man? What         Usta be blue. I'm a good kinda school is this? I don't    dancer if I do say so. A now here. Jermaine, which I     friend told me about Each One don't have to tell you, is a     / Teach One. I came here to boy's name.                      get away from bad influence.
You come to Harlem to get away from bad influence?
Can I go Miz Rain?
When it's your turn Jo Ann. Consuelo?
 Favorite color? Why I'm here? What's alla dat shit?
It's just a way of breaking the ice -a way of getting to know each other better...
...You don't have to do it if you don't want to but you do have to watch your language.
I don't want to.
You don't want to do what, participate or watch your language?
The first part.
Claireece?
Claireece?
 Certainly. Jo Ann?
I'm Jo Ann.  Hi! My favorite color is fluorescent beige. My ambition is to have my own record layer.
Where were you born and why are you at this school?
Well, that's everyone. Welcome to...
I could...Could I...go?
Okay Claireece.
...then I think, never that again.
My name Claireece Precious Jones. I go by Precious. I was born in Harlem. I like yellow 'n I had a problem at my old school so I come here.
 Something you do well?
...Nuffin.
 Everybody is good at something.
One thing?
 I can cook and...
And?
I never...
 How does it make you feel?
...Here. It make me feel ...here.
Before, I got A minus in English and never say nuffin', never do nuffin'. But Miz Rain say we gonna read and write in our notebooks every day. Thas sumthin' seeing how we can't really do none of those things and then I think maybe this ain' tha class for me. But when Miz Rain see the worry on my face, she look at me and start to talk in Chinese...
...Whatever the fuck that spozed to mean. This school different, okay. But this not Star Trek neitha'.
Complicated, complicated -Chinese journeys, 2 books, write 'n you don't know how? Dawg ...
We're all in this together Rita. Class?
This is just the beginning. Why don't we try by ourselves? There are 26 letters in the alphabet. They all have a sound. These letters make up all the words in our language. Please open your notebooks, write the date and then let's write the alphabet.
This is going to be painless ...
...I just want you to read a page from this book.
Sure lady, right after I get voted president.
Precious?
I can't do that Miz Rain.
C'mon Precious. Give it a try.
Precious. Honey are you okay? Try to relax. Should I call an ambulance? 911? Your moth ...
NO! !!
What is it?
The pages ...
 They all look alike to me. Always did.
 The words or the pictures?
The words.
I think I understand you Precious but I still want you to try. You're going to have to push yourself.
What do you think the story is about?
Peoples at the beach?
That's right.
Do you know what that is?
Do you know that word?
No. I don't.
Do you know the letters.
D, A, Y.
Do you know that word?
Day. That word is day.
What's that word?
Ate.
Good! Almost! The word is 'at'.
The!
...Beach?
'Shore'. That   word is 'shore'. That's almost   like 'beach'. Very good. Can you   read the whole thing?
A-Day-at-the-Shore.
Bring your fat ass in here!
Where you sneak your ass off to this morning?
You hear me talking to you! Where you sneak your ass off to this morning?!
School! I was at school!
You lying whore!
Am not!
You is! The welfare done called here, saying they is removing you from my budget 'cause you not in regular attendance in school.
Mama, I tole you I got kicked out. I been home mostly every day for two weeks.
Mama, I tole you dis morning I was goin'to school.
I ain' had no breakfast.
...Need to forget school. Need to git your ass on down to welfare.
I'm gonna get stipend for school and then...
Fool fuck a stipend. What's that? I said take your ass down to welfare.
Now?
No stupid. Got to be there at 7 in the A.M. if you gonna talk to anybody...
-Oh you too good for that? Is that what you is now, too good for welfare? 
Now hurry yo ass up. I'm gon die of starvation over here. Then where you be at then?
What you gon' have?
I ain' hungry. I ...
Yes you is.
But Mama I ...
Sit your ass down.
Jus make mine after you done. This gon' get cold if it sit.
Do what I say don't say what I say. Now eat bitch!
...Best feed like a pig and not a cow so's you can git yo ass back to the stove. If I croak off starvation, where in the world you be at then?
...Claireece, would you like to talk about your home life?
What do you want me to say?
Whatever comes to mind when you think about your home.
Seem like inquiring white bitches always want to know.
I wish I had a TV in my room.
 Is that all?
No... My muver is a like a whale person for the couch. She says I eat alla time, but then she always makin' me eat... and then call me a fat mess.... She says apartment is little because of me.
Of course. I want to learn more about your father anyway.
I don't know much more than you do Miz White...
Weiss.
He say he the original man like Farrakhan be saying but little do he know about it. He give me this baby comin and my other one before. Thas all I know. Don't see him. Don't need to I guess.
 What did you say your father gave you?
 ...Nuffin.
Yes you did Claireece. You said your father gave you...
No I didn't neitha. If you heard that, then you heard sumthin' else cause I ain' said nuffin like it!
Now whas next?
Um...How about your first child? You haven't spoken much about her...
Mongo?
Excuse me?
Mongo? Thas short for Mongoloid. She got Down Sinder.
You mean she has Down Syndrome?
Alla dat.
My grandmuver Toosie, brangs Little Mongo over on days social worker come so it look like Mongo live wif us. Then my mama get the check 'n food stamps for me 'n Little Mongo. But it's my baby. Little Mongo is money for me, not her!
...Sometimes I see vampires too. They come for me sometimes and they say that I am one of them. They say, "Precious, you belong wif us."
How do you respond to them?
I say, "Check wif my muver." After that, they just look at me and go down through the floor. The family downstairs is vampires so that's where they should go.
I'm going to the doctor now too. It's nice. Miz Rain, she fall out when she finded out that I ain' been to no doctor. Whole class scream 'preenatal' at me. They don't know I had my first baby on the kitchen floor wif my muver kicking me upside my head. I mean, who would believe?
Them the kind of thangs you mean when you say talk about whatever come into my mind?
I still don't know why I said all them thangs. I know I wasn't s'posed to. Just tired.
Miz Rain brang us out to see some real old stuff. Thangs and stuff before TV's was made, before Mr. Abraham Lincoln, before Miz Harriet Tubman -maybe some stuff before Miz Weiss even.
Before we turn tha corner in a mummy tomb, Rita grab hold of my hand. No one in my life ever do that. Ever.  How Rita do it wiffout a thought?
Guide lady smart. Say dis the first civilization of the Earf. Black folks, first!
I liked'd that museum so much I went back by myself... Peoples ...They only look when my belly big. They minds all made. But do they know? No. They do not know that I am a girl for flowers and thin straw legs?
If other peoples could see that the way I do, they would see that I am a real person inside.
Miz Rain say the longest journey begin wif a single step. I wonder what step they journeys begin on. Mama always talk about how there be all different types of welfare. I want filfy rich white folks welfare. Mama crazy but Mama not stupid.
I am happy to be writing. I am happy to be in school. I am happy to know my baby coming soon. Don't see the sense in pretending I am not pregnant anymore. I am also thinking about lil Mongo a lot. Miz Rain say we gonna write everyday, that mean home too.
And she gonna write back everyday. Thas great.
Mama say this new school ain' shit tho. Say you can't learn nuffin' writing in no book. Gotta git on that computer you want to make some money. But Mama wrong about that.
Listen Baby, Muver love you. Muver not dumb. Listen:
Thas the alphabet. Twenty-six ABCDEFGHIJKLPMN                   letters in all. Them letters O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z.          make up words. Them words everything.
His name Abdul Jamal Louis Jones. He healthy. His muver love him.
I win.
That hurt girl.
Get to X-Ray.
 Maybe I will.
You gon have to if you don't practice.
Alright.
Dear Miz Rain, All the years I sit in class I never learn, but now I got baby again by my fahver.
I wish I had a boyfriend like other girls and then I'd feel right that I have to quit school. I love my baby but want school too.
Dear Precious, I am glad you love your baby.
I think a beautiful young girl like you should have a chance to get an education. I think your first responsibility has to be to yourself. You should not drop out of school ...
Dear Miz Rain...
Social worker ask me if I want to give Little Mongo and Abdul up for adoption. I could kill her. She never help before. Now she want to take my kids away? If she take Abdul, I won't have nothing nomore.
Dear Precious, It seems the opposite to me. If you keep Abdul you might have nothing. You are learning to read and write, that is everything. Come back to school when you get out of the hospital. You're only seventeen. Your whole life is in front of you.
Dear Miz Rain, Grandmuver come visit and say only a dog will drop a baby and walk off. Say later not even a dog.
Dear Miz Rain, Lot of questions you ask. No muver, no grandmuver and father rape me years. Little Mongo wif my grandmuver. Best for me to stop breaving sometimes I think. I want to be a good mother too tho.
Dear Dear Precious, Being a good mother might mean letting your baby be raised by someone who is better able than you to meet the child's needs.
Dear Miz Rain, I is best able to meet my child's need.
Dear Precious, When you are raising a small infant you need help. Who is going to help you? How will you support yourself? How will you keep learning to read and write?
The welfare help Mama, it help me.
Dear Precious Miss, When you get home from the hospital, look and see how much welfare has helped your mother.
You could go further than your mother. You could get your G.E.D. and go to college. You could do anything Precious but you have to believe it. Love, Blu Rain.
83   CONTINUED:                                               83 RUBY Hi Precious. You back? That your new baby? What it's name? Can I hold it? ..Precious?
Bitch!!!
MAMA! ! !
MAMA! ! !
YOU RUIN MY LIFE YOU FAT LITTLE SLUT!!!
STOP IT MAMA! YOU GON CRAZY?!!!
FIRST YOU STEAL MY HUSBAND, THEN YOU GET ME CUT OFF THE WELFARE YOU STUPID-MOUTH BITCH!
I AIN'T STEAL NUFFIN FROM YOU MAMA! YOUR HUSBAND RAPE ME AND I NOT STUPID!
YOU IS! YOU IS TOO! YOU IS AND YOU ALWAYS GON BE NUTHIN BUT STUPID TIL THE DAY YOU DIE! YOU HEAR ME?!! STUPID!!!
SHUT UP MOMMA! I NOT STUPID! I AM NOT STUPID! DON'T SAY THAT!
Mary, leave that chile alone. Stop beating that girl Mary.
I'M GON KILL YOU PIG!
I DON'T KNOW HOW YOU DIDN'T ALREADY. YOU CRAZY BITCH!
YOU HEAR ME PRECIOUS! GET YOUR BIG, BLACK ASS BACK IN HERE!
Precious what happened?
Precious, could I see your baby now? I just wanna see.
Precious, what's wro...
I need to see Nurse John. Where Nurse John at?
He's on break. He'll be back soon. Have a seat.
Hey...You don't remember me do you?
I delivered your last one.
You know I'm sorry to see you back here.  I remembered hoping that you would have learned from your mistakes.
You don't know me bitch. Get lost 'fore I kick your ass.
Bitch?
I ain't make no mistake unless it was being born.
What happened?
My Mama kick my ass again. I ain' giving Abdul away. And I ain' gonna stop school ...I just...ain't.
Nurse John say lots of people get out of hospital wif no place to go. His eyes look worried tho ...Wonder what next? Scared now.
 ...Put your bags in bed with you. Put your bags in the bed with you. Put 'em in. Tuck 'em in bed with you...
Give the chile back her blanket!
Fuck you. I ain' giving back shit.
 AB    C D E F G H I J K L M N 0 P, Q RS    T U V, W X Y Z.  Now   I know my ABC's, tell me what you   think of me.
Miz Rain say I was moving through the vowel 'n consonant sounds faster than even Rhonda Johnson was. Maybe could've even catched up to Jermaine. Maybe ...
Where my baby?! Where my baby at?!
I can tell by Miz Rain's face that I ain' gonna be homeless no more. Only I ain' so sure where I'm gon end up tho.
 Yes I'll hold.  Safety net huh? What damn safety net?! A newborn child! A NEW BORN! In this fucking day and...
Thas the one time I heard Miz Rain curse.
Excuse my language Precious.
101   CONTINUED:                                               101 PRECIOUS I feels really sorry for her. She just a ABC teacher, not no social worker. But she all I could think of.
Hi Precious!
What happened?
Good morning girls. Tell the others to start writing when they come in. Whichever one of you is older is in charge until I get back. And Consuelo, I know that is not you. So here is $20.00.
Go get something for Precious to wear. Quick! And bring me back my change.
How old you is?
Same age as you.
When your birthday?
When yours?
I asked you first.
So ...
Well why didn't you tell me that before!!! I'm sitting here half the-
103   CONTINUED:                                               103 Ms. Rain slams the phone down, shakes her head, finds another number on the wall and then dials again while speaking to Precious.
Before this day is up, you will have a place to live Precious.
 Jo Ann, you late.
You ain't the teacher.
I am today. Miz Rain busy wif Precious.
 Alright!!!  How Precious?
They have ...something. It's an immediate opening and it's in Queens.
Queens?
Yeah. Queens ...What do you think?
 I don't really know Queens.
Me either. You should stay in Harlem...long as we can anyway.
I have this West Indian friend whose boyfriend is a council member.  We'll see what they can do...
...C-L-A-I-R-E-E ...
Hey Precious.
Hi Miss Lisa.
 How you been?
Good. How you been?
I don't know... I went to see that movie Barfly last night... That piece of shit was depressin...Cute kid.
Thanks.
I have the information on my desk. Can you hold one second?
106   CONTINUED:                                                106 MS. RAIN  I think   I may be onto something.  Come on   Precious.
What you want to spell that for?
A-Q-U-A-R-I-U-S.
Is that right?
Of course it's right. I'm one of `em.
I wonder can you spell "boy" then.
I wonder can you spell "slut" then.
Maybe, but I bet Miss Lisa can.
Yes Brenda. Thank you.
They can take you. Tomorrow...at a place here in Harlem.
You just need somewhere to stay tonight.  You don't snore do you?
Honey, how many times did I tell you about the music?
 You must be Precious. Hi.
Precious, this is my wife Katherine.
Huh?
I said that this is my wife Katherine.
...Oh...
This Abdul.
He looks just like you.
Thanks.  Y'all really married?
Yes Precious. Very much.
...Ask yourself. Just ask yourself; if Ronald McDonald were running the show and the price of hamburgers skyrocketed, wouldn't you be suspicious?
I just think you should finish the book.
Who's gonna read it?
Nobody if you don't write it. Precious writes everyday. You should try it.
What do you write about Precious?
I don't know. Stuff in my life. Abdul.
Katherine was just drawing a comparison so that her point could be more easily understood...
Mama say homos is bad peoples ...
...But homos not who rape me, homos not who let me sit up in school 16 years and learn nuffin and homos not sell crack to peoples in Harlem. I wonder what Oprah have to say about that?
You okay Precious?
Y' all watch Oprah?
110   CONTINUED:                                          110 PRECIOUS Miz Rain the one who put the chalk in my hand, make me queen of ABC's.
After I settle in halfway house, I work my hardest to memorize letter sounds, write in journal and read smaller and fatter books. Then I find out Mayor's office give me Literacy Award and check for progress. Everybody at the party, Nurse John, Cornrows and the staff stop in too, but they need to get back to they desks before too long. Whole operation can't stop just cause Miss Precious get a trophy. Even Ms. Katherine shows.
112   CONTINUED:                                               112 John hands Precious a giftwrapped present. She shakes it and then opens it.
You're welcome. What are you gonna do with your award money?
I owe the chicken place for a bucket that I swiped last year. Thas first. After that, get some thangs for Abdul.
You know Blu?
Miz Rain?
Yeah.
Like dis.
Well she has, has she uh...got a man?
...No.
Well I was hoping you could put in the good word.
The good word...wif Ms. Rain?
Yeah, that's what I'm trying to say.
You ain't her type.
 Hold on girl.
Miss Lisa this Nurse John. Nurse John this Miss Lisa.
Y'all work it out.
Hi ...How are you?
I get off at 4.
Precious, I thought you went home.
Not yet. I forgot to say thank you for my party.
You're welcome. It was my pleasure.
Was there something else?
I ...No...
 Are you sure?
Well, I was thinking...
Yes?
You talk to us girls in the class when we be working out problems and thangs and stuff, right?
Mm hm...
Well, who do you talk to?
 Or you probably don't have no problems so...
Everybody has those Precious.
It only looks that way. Yes, I talk to people all the time for support.
Oh, okay...I didn't have nobody to really speak wif for a long time. I know how that be sometimes so thas why I asked cause almost evrybody need a little help once in a ...
What on earth are you talking about?
 Well ...only that -well, evrybody need a little help once in a ...
What?!
 I jus ...
You just what?!
 I just thought that if you might need some ...
Precious?!
 ...Yes.
You've helped me already.
 Me? I never...
Last night I had a conversation with my mother, and that never happens cause our relationship is.... complicated. We don't speak, and when we do, it always ends in a fight about my filthy misguided existence. Most times I feel terrible for days afterwards wondering whether all the hateful things she said are true. Those days I just feel like...like...
Nuffin?
...Yeah. I didn't feel so bad this time though.  Cause this time I thought about how strong you've had to be and then I decided that I had nothing to be ashamed of and that my mother was wrong about me, my dad and 5 or 6 hundred other things. You ask if you can help me? Baby, you already have.
...For real?
That's the for real, hope to die if I'm lying truth. Now shouldn't you be out the door?
I jus help you finish up first. I got some time.
Some folks got a light around them that shine for other peoples. I think maybe some of them was in a long tunnel before. And in that tunnel, maybe the only light they had was one that was inside of them and then -even long after they escaped that tunnel, they still be shining for everybody else. Thas Miz Rain to me.
In a book I read, a lady escaped to a 1/2 way house. And the lady, she asked the people there just what a 1/2 way house was. They tole her, you is 1/2 way between the life you had and the life you want to have ...Thas nice. That also mean I can't stay here forever and that there is still a ways to go. It be something to get apartment of my own.
Abdul nine months old and walking! Smart too. I been reading to him since the day he was born almost. Barely talkin' and he countin' .
Mama, Daddy, I.S. III and 444 Lenox Avenue already seem like a past life or some old bad dream. I wish I could have started out from here but still wif Abdul and poor Mongo.
Come in...
Precious ...you have a visitor.
Thas Rhonda. She always early.
It's not Rhonda.
Your daddy dead.
...Is that all?
... You got it?
Got what?
The AIDS virus.
No.
How you know?
We never did, you know...
No, I don't know Mama.
We never did what you got to do to get it.
He never been wif you?
Yeah...but not like faggots, in the ass and all, so I know.
You better go to the doctor Ma.
You welcome back home.
I'm home here.  I better go see 'bout Abdul and do homework.
Rita, what do I mean when the author describes her protagonist's circumstances as "unrelenting"?
I don't know Miz Rain.
C'mon Rita, think about the question before you just give up like that...
Precious?
Precious, bring your journal to me.
Precious, would you come to my office for a moment?
Preci-
Nurse say I am H.I.V. positive.
I don't have nuffin to write today and I don't hate no one. Not even my muhver. My head is all dark inside so I don't have nuffin to write today...Maybe nuffin never.
Your baby okay?
Yeah. He good...Won't bress feed him no more to be safe.
 One time in your journal you told me that you had never really told your story.  write.
What for? How?! I feel like I am drowning inside a giant river Miz Rain. Thas what...
I think telling your story will get you over that river Precious ...
FUCK YOU! YOU DON'T KNOW NUFFIN WHAT I BEEN THROUGH!!! I NEVER HAD NO BOYFRIEND! MY DADDY SAY HE GONNA MARRY ME BUT HOW HE DO THAT, FUCKING ME ILLEGAL? I NEVER BEEN NO CHILD! NOT EVEN ONE DAY!!!
Open your notebook Precious.
 I'm tired Miz Rain!
I know you are but you can't stop now. You gotta fight through this. You still have to live your life and do the best you can with the hand you've been dealt. If not for yourself then for the people who love you.
Nobody love me. Thas a lie.
People do love you Precious.
Please don't lie Miz Rain! Love?! Me?! Love rape me, beat me, call me animal, get me sick and make me feel wurfless. I had enough love.
That wasn't love. There are people in this room who love you. Your child loves you too. Is that clear Precious? Now if Rita decided to just give up? Would you let her?
Would you?!
 No.
And why not?!
Because you love her...as much as she loves you.
Now the rest of the world can judge you, cheat you, beat you, dismiss you and abandon you all it wants but we won't let you give up and that's the only thing that matters. Some people have less than that on their side and still manage to keep going.  It's up to you.
Some things is hard to say and maybe not your business no way but Rhonda's brother rape her for years and when her muhver fine out, she throw Rhonda out her house.
Jermaine say mens beat her and then rape her for what she is. Muhver throw her out the house when she fine out that she different from other girls.
Miz Rain still a sort of mystery, but a nice one like the sun.
Miz Rain right too. These girls is my family now. They visit me at hospital when I had Abdul and even take up a collection when Mama kick me out. They got love in they eyes and in they hearts for me, same as I got for them.
...You know you can use your notebook between sessions Claireece.
I do.
I mean you can use it specifically for trying to recover certain early memories.
 What are you thinking?
Nothing.
Oh I doubt that Claireece. It seems like you're always thinking about something.
I don't know. It's sort of hot in here I guess.
It is, isn't it? As a matter of fact, I'm going to get myself something to drink. Would you like something to drink Claireece?
A soda sounds nice ...please.
What kind?
I don't care.
Oh c'mon, you must.
Orange.
Okee Dokee.
Thank you.
You know your mother's been calling here wanting to come visit.
Really?
Would you like her to come to a counseling session with you?
Well that's just one more thing to consider before I see you next week.
'I have just finished a session with Claireece Precious Jones, an eighteen-year-old African American female. According to her teachers at Each One Teach One where she attends school she is a pen-, phen-
... 'phenomenal'
...success. Having made strides so tre-men-tremendous in the past year, she was given the mayor's award for outstanding achievement. She seems actively en...engaged in all aspects of the learning process. However, her TABE test scores are disappointingly low... ' Not to Miz Rain! Not to Miz Rain!  'She scored 2.8 On her last test.' So what! Miz Rain-
Get a grip and gon' read the report and don't get all emotional about what this silly hoe got to say. Anyway, if your shit wasn't dope you wouldn't be standing up here readin' -what, what's her name 
'She will need at least an 8.0 Before she can enter G.E.D. Class and begin work toward her high school e-q...equivalency.'
...Nice.
Thanks.  'Abdul is the client's second-born child. He's from all outwhere...
'outward'...
'Appearances, a healthy and welladjusted toddler. Precious attends to his needs a-s-s-i-d-u-o-s-l-y...
... 'and with great affection and ee... '
'eagerly'
... 'seeks any and all information on child rearing. The time and resources it would require for this young woman to get a G.E.D. or into college would be considerable'...
'Although she is in school now, it is not a job readiness program. Nonetheless, Claireece is capable of going to work. In January, her son will be two years old. In keeping with the new initiative on welfare reform, I feel Claireece would benefit from any of the various workfare programs in existence. Despite her obvious intellectual limitations she is quite capable of working as a home attendant.'
I don't want to be no motherfucking home attendant! I wanna be...
Hush! 'My rapp-o-r-t with Precious is minimal. Although I am not sure with whom, she evidently has access to counseling services provided by Each One Teach One. She has a history of sexual abuse and is H.I.V. positive.'
She say she not put that in my file! Bitch!
That's the bitch's job, to get the mofuckin' goods on you!  'The client seems to view the social services, AFDC, as taking care of her forever.'
 That file do show one thing -that
I'm getting my G.E.D., a job, and a place for me and Abdul, then I go to college. I don't want to 'home attend' nobody!
You better put this shit back before you get in trouble. We talk about it with Ms. Rain in the morning.
And don't be coming back late for his bad ass neither.
Miz Weiss just part of the gang but definitely not cool. And social worker look at me like I am ugly freak who did something to make my own life like it is. I guess I am trying to figure out just what has happened to me while Miz Weiss just hell bent on making me go wipe old people's asses.
Got to sort dis out quick tho 'fore Abdul's next birthday -coming up fast.
Okay Precious.
I don't really want to read all I wrote, I jus' wanna kinda say what it is I'm writing about and how it came about.
What happened?
Well, to make a long story short, the counselor at Advancement House quizzing me about Mama and Daddy etc., etc. But it's really about workfare. She want to send me out as home attendant.
How you know?
Cause I stole my file from Advancement House and read it.
Next time get mine's too.
All this 'What you wanna be?' And 'You can talk to me.' They ain' no motherfucking therapists on our side, they just flunkies for the 'fare. I wanna work, but not for no motherfucking welfare check in Central Park -displacing brothers and sisters who really got jobs cleaning up 'cause I'm there working for free.
Sit up straight Jermaine and watch your language. Both of you. Please.
Now I see your points, but is stealing...
Miz Rain, If I didn't steal that file I wouldn't know what I was facing!
You read the whole thing by yourself?
Yeah...basically.
Rhonda home attend. Say old bitch would ring a bell when she want Rhonda in the night!
Rhonda used to have to go all the way out to Brighton Beach where she work for them people.
The people had her there all day and night - 'on call' they call it. But you only get pay for 8 hours so that's 8 X $6.37 (referring to her notebook) = $50.96 a day, but then you is not really getting that much cause you is working more than eight hours a day. You is working 24 hours a day and 50.96 divided by 24 is...
Rhonda say old bitch would ring a bell - a actual bell -when she want Rhonda in the night!
Home attendants usually work six days a week. I would only see Abdul on Sundays? When would I go to school?  Am I gonna hafta go be home attendant like Rhonda was?
No! So stop worrying about it. We'll cross that bridge when we get to it. Trust me -no, trust yourself. My concern now is that if this Ms. Weiss is someone you're working with and can't trust, she's out! We gotta find somebody else.
 Well, I just write in my notebook till I get wif some kinda therapist I can trust. Actually that always help me more than talking to her. Plus, I'm going to start going to meetings wif Rita for insect survivors.
Incest.
That's what I mean.
Well it ain't what you been saying.
What's the big deal?
One's where your family molest you, the other is like a roach or bugs.
No. I never really had nothing tested...nothing like that. Glasses is what I really want so my eyes don't hurt when I be reading at night.
Rita and me on our way. I look at subway map sometimes and wonder where I be if I go to the end of the line. Jermaine say there be a white boy wif a baseball bat when you get off. Rita say it's not true, or if it be true, it's only part true.
This girl look like a movie       It started when I was about 4 star and she in here too?!        or 5 years old with him All kinda women in here.          fondling me. By the time I Princess girls, big girls,        was 12, he was having old women, young women, white     intercourse with me 3 or 4 women, lotta white women.         Times a week...
What am I hearing?! What in       ....I didn't remember what my the world?! One hour and a        father did to me for so many alf women talk. How can this     years until after he died... happen to so many people?
And these is just the ones        ...I am a proud lesbian. But that come out to the meeting.     it's the only thing I'm proud What about the rest? Do I         of. I was confined to a pass them in the street and       mental institution for 14 do not know?                      years....
I was raped by my father and beat by my mother ever since I could remember anything at all. Raped and beat by both.
Anyway, thas all I'd like to say for today. Thank y'all for letting me share...
Everything is floating around me now. Like geeses from the lake. I see flying. Feel flying. Am flying. Far up...Thank you Rita for getting me here on time.
...How you get your hair like that?
Oh, you like it? I do yours one day if you want. That's what I do - fix people's hair and makeup.
Thank you Miriam.
Rita ask me do I want another hot chocolate. I do but I don't want to be greedy, even if her boyfriend do give her money.
I'm alive inside. A bird is my heart. Mama and Daddy didn't win. I'm winning. I'm drinking hot chocolate on the Upper West Side with girls - all kind who love me. How does a stranger meet me and love me?
 Sheila Hewitt, Ms. Rubenstein is ready for you.
R141   CONTINUED:                                              R141 SHEILA  Go on back there!
But there are no kids there I can play with.
Do you want me to knock your other eye out! Just sit there and shut up then! I'm going to talk to this lady before my shit gets cut off!
 Clareece Precious Jones!   Mrs. Weiss is ready for you.
One day Miz Rain ask us to write about our ideal self...I wrote that I would be light skinned and small wif wavy swing-job hair.
 Miz Rain read all that and then say I am beautiful like I am. I never believe her before but somehow, today, this moment -can't say why, I do. Just now...The inside I thought was so beautiful is a black girl too.
Perhaps we should begin by talking a little bit about the abuse.
'Buse?
Yes Ms. Johnston. Abuse.
There was no drugs in ma house! No drugs! 'Cause Precious know damn well I whoop her ass bright blue if she bring some drugs in ma...
I'm referring to inappropriate acts of a physical and sexual nature involving Precious.
Why'nt you say dat? Dat?! Okay. When it first start?
Yes. According to Precious' files she has had two children by your boyfriend, the late Carl Kenwood Jones, who is also her father?
...Well, I, Precious b'long at home cause I'm a good mother. She had everything. I done tole her that. Pink 'n white baby carriage, little pink bootie socks, dresses; everything I put on her pink. Precious, she so smiling and healthy. A day don't go by I don't throw her wheeling in the air. I take her up and down 125th Street. Me 'n Carl loved Precious. I dreamed of the day we was gonna you know, git married, git house wif grass, color TV's in all the rooms. Precious, She born about the same time as Miz West son that got kilt. You remember him don't you Precious?
He born summertime 'bout same time as you.
I was born in November...far as I know.
Yeah yeah thas right. My little Scorpio chile! Scorpio's crafty. I ain' sayin' they lie, jus' you cain't always trust 'em.
Ms. Johnston, when did the abuse happen, how often, where? And, when were you first aware of what was going on?
 Excuse me?
Huh?
You mentioned something about hygiene in connection with...
I bottle her, tittie him. Bottle more better for kidz. Sanitary. But I never git dried up 'cause Carl always on me. It's like that you know. Chile, man -a woman got bofe. What you gonna do? So we in bed. I put her one side of me on pillow, Carl on other side of me. Ms. Weiss looks as if she's stopped breathing. I think thas the day IT start. So he on me. Then he reach over to Precious! I say Carl what you doing! He say shut your big ass up! This good for her. I say stop Carl stop! I want him on me! I never wanted him to hurt her. I didn't want him doing anything to her. I wanted my man for myself -to sex me up, not my chile. Me God damn it! So you cain't blame all that shit happen to Precious on me. I love Carl, I loved him. He her daddy but he was my man!
Lady from Each One Preach One say she got poems too. In fact...
That's enough Mama. That's ... enough.  You know, I didn't realize what you was until this day -even after all those thangs you did. Maybe I didn't know no better or maybe I just didn't want to but I finally see you crystal clear for the first time.  I forgive you too.
...but I'll never see you again. Not even if you dead.
 Stay down Mama.
I forgive you too. I can tell right now that you ain't qualified for dis kind of mess.
...Precious? I was thinking we might...
I took the TABE test again. This time it's 7.8. Last time it was 2.8.
...Why congratulations Precious. That's ...
Precious, perhaps it's best if you remain seat...
Precious?!
Precious!
