"It is a truth universally acknowledged...
My dear Mr Bennet, have you heard that Netherfield Park is let at last? We follow Elizabeth into the house, but still overhear her parents' conversation.
Do you not want to know who has taken it?
As you wish to tell me, I doubt I have any choice in the matter...
With five thousand a year! Jane, (the eldest, most beautiful and most charmingly naive of the girls), joins them at the door.
Goodness!
- and he's single to be sure!
What a fine thing for our girls!
Bow can it affect them?
My dear Mr Bennet, how can you be so tiresome! You know that he must marry one of them.
Oh, so that is his design in settling here? Mr Bennet takes a book from his table and walks out of the library into the corridor where the girls are gathered, Mrs Bennet following.
- So you must go and visit him at once.
Oh, yes, Papa.
Please, Papa!
There is no need, for I already have. The piano stops. A frozen silence. They all stare.
You have?
when?
How can you tease me, Mr Bennet. You have no compassion for my poor nerves?
You mistake me, my dear. I have a high respect for them; they are my constant companions these twenty years.
Is he amiable?
Is he handsome?
He's sure to be handsome.
I will give my hearty consent to his marrying whichever of the girls he chooses.
So will he come to the ball tomorrow?
I believe so. Lydia and Kitty shriek with excitement.
I need it!
- if you do, I'll lend you my green slippers. Mr Bennet winks at Elizabeth and turns to Mary, a serious, somewhat pedantic young woman.
And what do you say, Mary? Are you not excited by the prospect of a ball?
Society has claims on us all, Papa. As long as I have my mornings to myself, I consider an interval of recreation and amusement as quite desirable. Elizabeth laughs.
Lydia and Kitty, with their mother, are fussing over their clothes - straightening their dresses, tidying their hair and so on.
 I literally can't breathe its so tight.
My toes hurt. Elizabeth and Jane are a little apart from their family. Jane looks breathtaking.
Well, if every man in this room does not end the evening completely in love with you then I am no judge of beauty.
Or men.
Oh, they are far too easy to judge.
They are not all bad.
Humourless poppycocks, in my limited experience.
One of these days, Lizzie, someone will catch your eye and then you'll have to watch your tongue.
And eat my hat. She stops speaking. And stares. A dazzling group enters the room: George Bingley, 25, a good hearted soul but prone to bumbling embarrassment when his enthusiasms get the better of him, his sister Caroline, 23, a victim of every latest fashion, counting herself superior to most company she encounters, and finally, Mr Fitzwilliam Darcy, 27, dashing, brooding with an introversion which could be misconstrued as hauteur. They are dressed in the highest fashion. Darcy surveys the hall. He catches Elizabeth's eye. She stares, with a kind of surprised shock. Jane notices and looks at Darcy. He turns away.
Luckily, you are not wearing a hat. A hush falls as the local people turn to stare. The newcomers - creatures from another world - make quite a stir.
Caroline Bingley, standing next to Darcy, gazes at the somewhat provincial gathering with distaste.
We are a long way from Grosvenor Square, are we not, Mr Darcy? He does indeed look superior to the assembled company. On the dance floor a young couple, staring at the newcomers, trip over each other, stumble and burst out laughing.
I find it very charming.
Elizabeth has found her great friend Charlotte Lucas - an intelligent, sensible woman in her late twenties. They spy through the crowd.
So which of the painted peacocks is our Mr Bingley?
He is on the right, and on the left is his sister.
And the person with the disagreeable expression?
That is his good friend, Mr Darcy.
Poor soul.
On the contrary, he has ten thousand a year and owns half of Derbyshire.
Sir William Lucas, 53 a hale but unsophisticated member of the self-made gentry, takes it upon himself to introduce Mr Bingley and Mr Darcy to his daughter Charlotte and the Bennet family.
 My eldest daughter you know, Mrs Bennet ...miss Jane Bennet, Elizabeth and Miss Mary Bennet.
It is a pleasure. I have two others but
Delighted to make your acquaintance.
And may I introduce Mr Darcy.
Moments later. Elizabeth is standing in a small group with Jane, Bingley, Miss Bingley and Darcy. Bingley can't keep his eyes off Jane, but is frightfully at a loss in disguising his instant ardour.
How do you like it here in Hertfordshire, Mr Bingley?
 Very much.
The library at Netherfield, I've heard, is one of the finest in the country.
Yes, it fills me with guilt. He looks at Jane a little blush starts around his collar.
Not a good reader, you see. I like being out of doors. I mean, I can read, of
His sister steps in. as the blush threatens to engulf his ears.
Thank you. It is the work of many generations.
And then you have added so much to it yourself.
I wish I read more, but there always seems so many other things to do.
That's exactly what I meant. He beams at Jane.
Mr and Mrs Bennet stand a little apart from Elizabeth and the other young people. Lydia and Kitty bound up to them in a state of high excitement.
Mama! The regiment is arriving next week!
And will be here for the whole winter! Mrs Forster told us!
They're going to be stationed in the village!
Mr Bingley'turns to Jane.
May I have the honour? They leave, to dance.
Do you dance Mr Darcy?
Not if I can help it. Elizabeth, Darcy and Miss Bingley stand in silence as they over hear the following...
officers! Lots of officers!
How will we meet them?
It's easy. You just walk up and down in front of them and drop something. Lydia pantomimes the actions for Kitty.
They pick it up. You say 'oh thank you sir' and blush prettily and then you're introduced!
I have long suspected that we have two of the silliest girls in the county.
Oh Mr Bennet! I remember the time when I liked a red coat myself, and if a smart young colonel with six thousand a year should want one of my girls I shall not say nay to him. Mr Darcy overhears this. Profoundly embarrassed, Lizzie moves away.
The dance floor. Mr Bingley is dancing with Jane. His ears blushing with thrilled embarrassment. Mrs Bennet, with a group of other mothers, watches the young couple with rather too obvious satisfaction.
7 That dress becomes her, does it not. 7 Though of course my Jane needs little help from couturiers. Elizabeth wanders through the throng. She looks at Bingley and Jane ending the dance - she is coy and demure, he clearly smitten -
Darcy is joined by Bingley exhilarated by the dance.
Come Darcy, I must have you dance. I hate to see you standing by yourself in this stupid manner.
 You know how I detest it.
Upon my word, I've never seen so many pretty girls in my life.
You are dancing with the only handsome girl in the room.
Oh, she is the most beautiful creature I ever beheld, but her sister Elizabeth is very agreeable. They have stopped at the edge of the dance floor and have not seen Elizabeth and charlotte who are standing close behind them. Elizabeth smirks as she overhears their conversation.
Perfectly tolerable, I dare say, but not handsome enough to tempt me. Elizabeth's smile drops.
You had better return to your partner and enjoy her smiles, for you are wasting your time with me. Bingley goes off.
Elizabeth and Charlotte, who have overheard Darcy and Bingley's exchange.
Ignore him, Lizzie, he is such a disagreeable man it would be a misfortune to be liked by him.
Don't worry. I would not dance with him for half of Derbyshire.
Later. Bingley politely dancing with Charlotte. As he does so, he catches sight of Jane dancing with somebody else. A look of pure longing, but he cannot dance every dance with her. Lizzie too is dancing and clocks this. Lydia and Kitty are exuberantly dancing too, laughing and chatting. Darcy stands watching, a look of infinitely superior boredom on his fine features.
Bingley is standing with Jane, Elizabeth, Mrs Bennet and Darcy.
Yes! I adore her.
It is a pity she is not more handsome.
Mama!
But Lizzie will never admit she is plain.
Oh, Mama, please!
When she was only fifteen there was a gentleman so much in love with her that I was sure he would make her an offer. However, he did write her some very pretty verses.
I thought that poetry was the food of love.
Of a fine, stout love it may. Everything nourishes what is strong already. But if it is only a thin, slight sort of inclination, I'm convinced that one good sonnet will starve it away entirely. Darcy looks at Elizabeth with surprise. A glimmering of interest.
So what do you recommend, to encourage affection?
Oh dancing, of course. Even if ones partner is barely tolerable. She gives him a dazzling smile. Darcy looks startled. He has no idea she heard him. He blushes.
Mr Bingley is just what a young man ought to be. Sensible, good humoured -
 Handsome, conveniently rich -
You know perfectly well I do not believe marriage should be driven by thoughts of money.
I agree entirely, only the deepest love will persuade me into matrimony, which is why I will end up an old maid.
Do you really believe he liked me, Lizzie?
Jane, he danced with you most of the night.
I was flattered, I must admit. I did not expect such a compliment.
That is one great difference between us. Compliments always take you by surprise. Well, Mr Bingley is certainly very amiable, and I give you leave to like him. You've liked many a stupider person.
Lizzie!
You're a great deal too apt to like people in general, you know. All the world is good and agreeable in your eyes.
Not his friend. I still cannot believe what he said about you.
Mr Darcy? I could more easily forgive his vanity had he not wounded mine. But no matter. I doubt we shall ever speak again. She blows out the candle.
And then he danced the third with Miss Lucas. Poor thing, it is a shame she is not more handsome. The fourth with a Miss King of little standing. And the fifth again with Jane.
If he'd had any compassion for me he would have sprained his ankle in the first dance.
Oh, Mr Bennet! Anybody would think the girls looked forward to a grand inheritance. Elizabeth rolls her eyes at Mr Bennet, they've heard this speech many times before.
As you well know, Mr Bennet, when you die, which may in fact be very soon, our girls will be left without a roof over their head nor a penny to their name.
Oh Mother, please! It's ten in the morning. Mrs Hill enters the room and interrupts Mrs Bennet's babbling.
A letter addressed to Miss Bennet, Ma'arn. From Netherfield Hall.
Praise the Lord! We are saved. Mrs Hill gives the letter to Jane.
Make haste, Jane, make haste. 0 happy day!
It is from Miss Bingley. Mrs Bennet is stopped in her tracks.
She has invited me to dine with her.
This is most unfortunate.
I didn't think he was so good looking anyway.
Can I take the carriage?
Certainly not my dear, you will go to Netherfield on horse back.
Horseback?! Mrs Bennet leaves with a secret smile on her lips.
 Ah, good... The housekeeper, Mrs Hill, who is with her, looks bemused at her mistress's reaction.
Excellent. Now she will have to stay the night. Exactly as I predicted.
Good grief, woman. Your skills in the art of match-making are without question.
Though I don't think, mama, you can reasonably take credit for making it rain. Let's hope she hasn't caught her death before she gets there.
"And my kind friends will not hear of me returning home until I am better -- but do not be alarmed excepting a sore throat, a. fever, and a headache there is nothing wrong with me." This is ridiculous.
Well, my dear, if your daughter does die it will be a comfort to know it was all in pursuit of Mr Bingley.
People do not die of colds.
Though she might well perish with the shame of having such a mother. Mr Bennet laughs.
I am going to Netherfield at once.
Nonsense, the horse is with Jane. And the girls took the carriage to town.
Then I will walk there. We should not leave Jane alone in her condition.
Walk! You will not be fit to be seen by the time you get there.
Why the devil not. We could have them all laid up at Netherfield Hall.
I will be fit for Jane which is all I care about.
 Apparently, Lady Bathurst is redecorating her ballroom in the French style. A little unpatriotic, don't you think? Mr Darcy is about to answer when the door opens. A footman appears, his face rigid with disapproval.
Miss Elizabeth Bennet. Lizzie comes in, her face flushed, her skirt covered in mud. She looks ravishing. Darcy stares at her, then quickly rises to his feet. Caroline Bingley, astonished, looks her up and down.
Good Lord, Miss Bennet. Have you walked here?
I'm so sorry. How is my sister?
Goodness, did you see her petticoat? Six inches deep in mud! No response.
And her hair, so blowsy and untidy!
I think her concern for her sister does her credit. A little pause, Caroline recovers.
Oh yes, its shocking to have a bad cold. I dislike excessively being ill myself.
Miss Elizabeth! Oh I'm so glad to see you A doctor comes out of Jane's room.
A violent cold, but we shall get the better of it.
Jane! Jane's face lights up. Elizabeth kisses her.
Lizzie! Oh, your face is so cold. They're being so kind to me, I feel such a terrible imposition.
Don't worry. I don't know who is more pleased at your being here, Mama or Mr Bingley. Bingley comes in having attended to the doctor.
Thank you for tending to my sister so diligently, it seems she is in better comfort here than she would be at home.
It is a pleasure, I mean not to see her so sick, of course, that's terrible. I will have a room made up for you. You must be our guest here until Jane recovers.
Stay!? She is a perfectly sweet girl but save being an excellent walker, there is very little to recommend her.
I thought she showed remarkable spirit coming all this way.
The eldest Miss Bennet, as you know, I hold in excessive regard and I wish her well settled. Though I do fear with her families low connections there is little chance of it. Their uncle is in trade, you know, in Cheapside.
If they had uncles enough to fill all Cheapside it would not make them one jot less agreeable.
Well, my dear, its all going according to plan. He's half in love with her already!
 Who, my sweetest?
Mr Bingley! And he doesn't mind that she hasn't a penny, for he has enough for the two of them. Suddenly a distant trumpet sounds, dogs bark. The militia are arriving. Lydia and Kitty rush past. They are dressed up to the nines to greet the officers. Mrs Bennet's face lights up.
Wait for me!
You write uncommonly fast, Mr Darcy.
 You are mistaken. I write rather slowly. Caroline Bingley lingers, annoyingly.
How many letters you must have occasion to write, Mr Darcy. Letters of business too. How odious I should think them!
It is fortunate, then, that they fall to my lot instead of yours.
Please tell your sister that I long to see her.
I have already told her once, by your desire. Lizzie looks across from her book.
I do dote on her, I was quite in raptures at her beautiful little design for a table.
Mr Bingley now pacing anxiously around the room.
Its amazing, how young ladies have the patience to be so accomplished.
What do you mean, Charles?
They all paint tables, and embroider cushions and play the piano. I never heard of a young lady, but people say she is accomplished.
The word is indeed applied too liberally. I cannot boast of knowing more than half a dozen women, in all my acquaintance, that are truely accomplished.
Nor I, to be sure!
Goodness! You must comprehend a great deal in the idea.
I do.
Absolutely. She must have a thorough knowledge of music, singing, drawing, dancing and the modern languages, to deserve the word. And something in her air and manner of walking.
And of course she must improve her mind by extensive reading. Elizabeth closes her book.
i am no longer surprised at your knowing only six accomplished women. I rather wonder now at your knowing any.
Are you so severe on your own sex?
I never saw such a woman. She would certainly be a fearsome thing to behold. Pause. Darcy goes back to his letter. Caroline Bingley picks up a book. Pauses. Puts it down. she walks over to
Miss Bennet, let us take a turn about the room. Lizzie, surprised, gets up. Caroline Bingley links her arm and they start walking up and down.
It's refreshing, is it not, after sitting so long in one attitude?
And it's a small kind of accomplishment, I suppose. Darcy meets Lizzie's eye, briefly. He goes back to his letter-writing. More walking up and down. Caroline Bingley turns to Darcy.
Mr Darcy, will you join us?
 You can only have two motives, Miss Bingley, and I would interfere with either.
 What can he mean?
Our surest way of disappointing him will be to ask nothing about it.
Either you are in each other's confidence and have secret affairs to discuss, or you are conscious that your figures appear to the greatest advantage by walking. If the first, I should get in your way. If the second, I can admire you much better from here.
Oh, shocking! How shall we punish him for such a speech?
We could always tease him.
Oh no, Mr Darcy is not to be laughed at!
Are you too proud, Mr Darcy? And would you consider that a fault?
That I couldn't say.
For we're trying to find a fault in you.
Maybe it's that I find it hard to forgive the follies and vices of others, or their offences against myself. My good opinion, once lost, is lost forever.
Oh dear, I cannot tease you about that. What a shame, for I dearly love to laugh.
Jane, do you think you might feel well enough to leave today?
A Mrs Bennet, a Miss Bennet, a Miss Bennet and a Miss Bennet, sir.
Are we to receive every Bennet in the country? Mrs Bennet, Lydia, Mary and Kitty are introduced to Caroline, Bingley and Darcy. Elizabeth holds her breath as her mother launches into untold gaucheries.
What an excellent room you have sir. Such expensive furnishings. I hope you intend to stay here, Mr Bingley.
Absolutely I find the country very diverting. Don't you agree, Darcy?
I find it perfectly adequate even if society is a little less varied than in town.
But I assure you there is quite as much going on in the country as there is in the town.
Indeed Mania, I think Mr Darcy merely meant there were not such a variety of people to be met in the country as there are in town, which you must acknowledge to be true.
Nonsense, we dine with four and twenty families. Sir William Lucas for instance is a very agreeable man. So very genteel and easy. Elizabeth cringes.
Mr Bingley, is it true that you have promised to hold a ball here at Netherfield?
Well...
It would be an excellent way to meet new friends. You could invite the militia.
Oh do hold a ball.
(trying to stop Bingley being
Kitty...
When your sister has recovered you shall name the day.
I think a Ball is a perfectly irrational way to gain new acquaintance. It would be better if conversation instead of dancing were the order of the day.
Indeed much more rational but rather less like a ball.
Thank you, Mary.
 Please let me show you to Jane, you will find her quite recovered.
 Really, I don't know how to thank you. Bingley beams bashfully. He can't take his eyes off her.
Really, you're welcome anytime you feel the least bit poorly.
Not at all. The pleasure is all mine. Elizabeth looks at Darcy, who does not say anything. She gets in the carriage.
Mr Darcy.
Miss Bennet. They share a look as Elizabeth joins the rest of the Bennets in the carriage. The driver takes off. Bingley waves enthusiastically to Jane.
Goodbye. Goodbye.
What a high and mighty man that Mr Darcy is, quite eaten up with pride.
I can't believe it, there must be a thousand of them. Leading the one troupe of Militia is Wickham a very handsome blonde officer, Lydia spots him and swoons.
 Please, drive on.
I hope, my dear, that you have ordered a good dinner today, because I have reason to expect an addition to our family
Mr Bennet holds up the letter.
"Dear sir, the disagreement subsisting between yourself and my late father over the entail to me of the Longbourn estate, has long been a subject of much torment which I have frequently wished to heal. Having received ordination this Easter and being so fortunately distinguished by the patronage of the Right Honorable Lady Catherine de Bourgh..." Collins' voice fades out as his carriage wipes through frame revealing Elizabeth and Charlotte on their way to the butchers.
His name is Mr Collins. He's the dreaded cousin.
Who's to inherit?
Indeed. Everything, apparently. He may leave us our stays, but even my piano stool belongs to Mr Collins.
When?
He can turn us out of the house as soon as he pleases.
But why?
Because the estate is entailed to him and not to us poor females. A cart passes, crammed with sheep going to slaughter.
Ah, these are your daughters, are they not?
We have some more somewhere.
I must congratulate you. I have heard much of their beauty, but in this instance fame has fallen short of the truth. A very low bow. The girls are somewhat taken aback.
What a superbly featured room and what excellent boiled potatoes. It is many years since I had such an exemplary vegetable. To which of my fair cousins should I compliment the excellence of the cooking?
Mr Collins, we are perfectly able to keep a cook.
Excellent. I am very pleased the estate affords such a living. I am honoured to have, as my patroness, Lady Catherine de Bourg, you have heard of her, I presume? Mrs Bennet shakes her head.
My small rectory abuts her estate, Rosings Park, and she often condescends to drive by my humble abode in her little phaeton and ponies. A pause. Lizzie catches her father's eye.
Does she have any family?
One daughter, the heiress of Rosings and very extensive property. I have often observed to Lady Catherine, that her daughter seemed born to be a duchess for she has all the superior graces of elevated rank.
.These are the kind of little delicate compliments that are always acceptable to 11 ladies, and which I conceive myself particularly bound to pay.
Do these pleasing attentions proceed from the impulse of the moment or are they the result of previous study? Jane kicks Elizabeth under the table. Elizabeth tries not to laugh at Mr Collins' answer.
They arise chiefly from what is passing at the time, and though I sometimes amuse myself with arranging such little elegant compliments, I always wish to give them as unstudied an air as possible.
Believe me, no one would suspect your manners to be practised. The girls look at one another.
After dinner I thought I might read to you all an hour or two. I have with me Fordyce's sermons which speak eloquently on this point.
Mrs Bennet. You do know I have been bestowed by the good grace of Lady Catherine de Bough a parsonage of no mean size.
I have become aware of the fact.
Well, it.is my avowed hope that soon I may find a mistress for it, and I have to inform you that the eldest Miss Bennet has captured my special attention. Collins looks lasciviously into the room.
Mr Collins, unfortunately it is incumbent on me to hint that the eldest Miss Bennet is - very soon to be engaged.
Engaged!
But Miss Elizabeth next to her in both age and beauty would make anyone an excellent partner. Do not you agree, Mr Collins? Mr Collins looks through the doorway at Elizabeth
Indeed. Indeed. A very agreeable alternative.
Oh no! Mx Collins spots them and darts through a door in the garden wall and hurries towards the bridge to meet them.
Quick! This way! She pulls Jane across the duck board spanning the moat, through the house and out the front. Mr Collins doubles back and follows them into the house. The girls are no-where to be seen. He looks around, puzzled.
Kitty? Lydia! She and Jane join them.
We just happened to be looking for some ribbon, didn't we, Kitty?
He picked up Lydia's gloves!
He's a lieutenant! Wickham bows.
I'm enchanted. Shall we all look at some ribbons together?
Oh yes!
Though I must warn you, I have very poor taste.
No, it's true. My rooms in town, decorated, I thought, in the height of fashion, have reduced grown men to tears of mirth.
And deny people such pleasure?
So you don't mind being laughed at?
Not particularly.
It is a somewhat sterile quality, is it not, to be aware of ones importance in the world.
Especially if, like me, one has none. Elizabeth looks at him with interest. A beat. The moment is broken by Lydia coming up.
Lizzie, please lend me some money!
Allow me to oblige.
No! Please - Mr Wickham! - Wickham gives Elizabeth a smile and moves away to the counter.
You're too generous.
I know. Fivepence halfpenny!
It all adds up.
I'll pay him back.
Oh yes. I'll make sure of that.
Will you be stationed here all winter, Mr Wickham?
That depends on what the French have in mind. Of course I look forward to action...  But on the other hand
Lizzie - look! They stop. Jane's face lights up.
Mr Bingley ! It is indeed Bingley, riding towards them. He is accompanied by Darcy. Bingley jumps off his horse and hurries over to Jane. His open, friendly face is filled with delight.
I was on my way to your house.
Please Mr Bingley, when are you going to give a ball?
Lydia!
I was just waiting until your sister was quite well.-
She is! Elizabeth pays no attention to the following conversation, instead she is looking at Darcy who, in turn, is staring at Wickham. They both obviously recognize each other and look very uncomfortable.
- when, then?
Be sure to invite Mr Wickham. Darcy turns and rides off without a word.
Lydia, you can't just say that -
Will you excuse me ladies? Mr Wickham. Enjoy the day. Elizabeth looks at Wickham, puzzled.
We have asked mama if we might have new dresses for the Netherfield ball.
Yes, white, they must be white.
White is the only colour to be worn this season.
So I believe. Mr Collins is at a table with Lady Lucas, he glances over at Elizabeth, as he talks.
- of course, when you understand that Lady Catherine de Bourgh is its proprietor you will realise what an immense compliment that is. Lady Catherine spent eight hundred pounds on a chimney-piece alone. Wickham who has been talking to some of the other officers comes and sits beside Elizabeth, passing by Mr collins on the way.
 Your cousin is blessed with an uncommon capacity for charm. Elizabeth laughs and plays a hand.
Will you be attending the Netherfield ball, Mr Wickham?
I hope to.
About a month. Are you acquainted with, Mr Darcy?
Indeed, my fate has been very intimate with that gentleman. I have been connected with his family since infancy. Elizabeth is genuinely surprised, there is a pause while she is forced to play her hand.
You may well be surprised, Miss Bennet, especially given the cold manner of our intimacy this afternoon. Are you well acquainted with that gentleman?
As much as I could ever wish to be. I have spent four days in the same house as him, and I think him very disagreeable.
I cannot pretend to be sorry. Elizabeth blushes.
But really I speak out of turn. Collins voice breaks the moment.
Miss Elizabeth, I was just saying to Sir William what appalling weather we've been having.
I think I shall take a little air. She rises and walks through the room towards a balcony. As she passes the other tables we follow and witness snippets of their conversations.
At the moment she has more suitors than sense. Charlotte looks over at Mr Collins. Elizabeth passes Sir William's side of the table.
Now any one for a round of bridge? Elizabeth?
Mr Collins?
Oh, I am not so familiar with the game, Sir William.
Absolute nonsense. I insist that you join us.
Please, Mr Collins, I'd be happy if you'd
Collins resigns himself to his fate. Elizabeth smiles and slips out into the night air.
I hope your plans in favor of Meryton will not be affected by your difficult relations with the gentleman we were just speaking of.
Oh no - it is not for me to be driven away. If he wishes to avoid seeing me, he must go not I. Pause.
I must ask you Mr Wickham, what is the manner of your disapproval of Mr Darcy?
Do you really want to hear? Lizzie nods.
He ruined me. She stares at him.
How so?
My father managed his estate. We grew up together, Darcy and I. His father treated me like a second son. Oh he was the kindest of men and bequeathed me the best living in his gift, for I had my heart set on joining the church. But when he died Darcy ignored his wishes and gave the living to another man.
Why did he do that?
Out of jealousy, for his father loved me more than he loved him.
How cruel! Are you sure?
Aggghh!
Breathe in! We move to the quieter preparations of Jane and Elizabeth. This conversation has been going on for some time.
0 How could Mr Darcy do such a thing? I will discover the truth from Mr Bingley at the ball this evening.
If it is not true let Mr Darcy contradict it himself. But until he does, I hope never to encounter him.
Poor, unfortunate Mr Wickham.
On the contrary, he is twice the man Darcy is.
And lets hope for you a rather more willing dancer. Jane leaves Elizabeth, at the mirror, taking very particular care of her makeup. she smil6s to herself.
You're here! I'm so pleased.
And so am I.
How are you, Miss Elizabeth? Elizabeth is not paying attention, instead she is searching over Mr Bingleys' shoulder for a sight of Wickham.
Are you, looking for someone?
No, no not at all. Admiring the splendor of the ball.
It is lovely, Mr Bingley. Bingley and Jane move off leaving Elizabeth with Mrs Bennet and others. While Mrs Bennet talks we focus on Elizabeth searching the sea of red coats.
(refering to Jane and
I dare say I have never met a more pleasant gentleman in all my years. Look how he dotes on her! Still Jane has always done what is best for her family. Elizabeth takes this opportunity to slip away into the next room. Elizabeth looks around but cannot see Mr Wickham. Suddenly she thinks she sees him, so starts to a r, move over. The man turns round, it is not Wickham but someone else. Elizabeth walks nonchanantly into the next room, again looking for Mr Wickham. She cranes around trying to see him then she is suddenly surprised by Charlotte Lucas.
Perhaps he is in the ballroom. They both walk into the ball room. We pull back to reveal a sea of dancers. Wickham is nowhere to be seen. Jane appears and catches Elizabeths arm.
He's not here. Apparently otherwise detained. The disappointment is palpable on Elizabeth's face.
Detained? Mr Collins arrives, breathless. He smiles eagerly at Elizabeth.
There you are.
Mr Collins. What a pleasant surprise.
Perhaps you will do me the honour, Miss Elizabeth?
Oh. I didn't think you danced, Mr Collins.
I do not consider it incompatible with the office of a clergyman to indulge in such an innocent diversion. Elizabeth tries to smile, politely.
In fact several people, her ladyship included, have complimented me on my lightness of foot. Elizabeth's face is a matey rictus.
They dance, the style of which is not unlike English Country dancing.
To be sure, dancing is of little consequence to me, but it does afford the opportunity to lavish'ones partner with delicate attentions which is my primary object of the evening. Elizabeth turns as part of the dance and for a moment she dances beside Jane.
Apparently Your Mr Wickham has been called on some business to town, though my informer told me he would have been less inclined to be engaged had it not been for the presence at Netherfield of a certain gentleman. Jane indicates towards where Darcy stands watching them.
That gentleman barely warrants the name. The dance leads Elizabeth back to Mr Collins.
It is my intention, if I may be so bold to remain close to you throughout the evening.
Couples are preparing for the next dance. Elizabeth and Charlotte are standing to one side when Mr Darcy approaches.
May I have the next dance, Miss Elizabeth. Elizabeth is stunned.
You may. Darcy walks away.
What was I thinking? Have I no presence of mind?l
I dare say you will find him very agreeable, Lizzie.
Heaven forbid! That would be the greatest misfortune of all - to find a man agreeable whom one is determined to hate!
Elizabeth dances face to face with Darcy. Neither can speak. They dance for a moment in silence.
I do love a Sarabande.
Indeed. Most invigorating. They continue, for a moment, in silence.
It is your turn to say something, Mr Darcy - I talked about the dance, now you ought to remark on the size of the room or the number of couples.
I am perfectly happy to oblige, please advise me of what you would like most to hear.
That reply will do for the present. Perhaps by and bye I may observe that private balls are much pleasanter than public ones. But for now we may be silent.
Do you talk as a rule while dancing?
We are each of an unsocial, taciturn disposition, unwilling to speak, unless we expect to say something that will - amaze the whole room, and be handed down to posterity with all the eclat of a proverb. So a little lubrication to avoid embarrassment might be advantageous.
I see no striking resemblance of your own character in this, how near it is to mine I cannot say.  Tell me do you and your sisters very often walk to Meryton?
Very mild weather we've been having.
 Sorry. The dance spins again and she is back with Darcy.
Yes, we often walk to Meryton - it is a great opportunity to meet new people. In fact when you met us we had just had the pleasure of forming a new acquaintance.
I will admit your Mr Wickham is blessed with such happy manners as may ensure his making friends - whether he is capable of retaining them is less certain.
He has been so unlucky as to lose your friendship. I remember hearing you once say that your resentment once created was unappeasable. You are very cautious, I suppose, as to its being created?
I am. May I ask to what these questions tend.
To make out your character, Mr Darcy.
And what have you discovered?
very little. The dancefinishes.
I hear such different accounts of you as puzzle me exceedingly.
I hope to afford you more clarity in the future.
Elizabeth is at the buffet watching Kitty quaff a huge glass of wine and having the glass immediately refilled. She is joined by Caroline Bingley who also looks at Kitty disapprovingly.
Miss Elizabeth. Let me recommend you as a friend not to give too much confidence to all of the assertions your friend Mr Wickham might make. He is indeed a charming man, but one should never forget from where he is descended.
His lack of trustworthiness and descent appear by your account to be the same thing,
Please excuse my interterence, it was kindly meant. A breathless Mr Collins appears.
Is that Mr Darcy, of Pemberley in Derbyshire?
I believe so.
But I must make myself known to him immediately!
But sir -
He is the nephew of my esteemed patroness, Lady Catherine.
Please, Mr Collins! He'll consider it an
Mr Darcy! The room around him stops. Darcy is surprised and turns round. In dumbshow we see Darcy is horrified by Collins' obsequiousness, during the conversation Collins points Elizabeth out to Darcy.
What interesting relatives you have, Miss Bennet. Elizabeth walks away into another room.
The other room, where Mary is singing badly at the piano. Elizabeth is horrified. She turns to leave only to see Mr Bennet looking on. He winces as Mary misses a high note. Mary finishes the song with an off key flourish. Polite applause. Mary smiles and prepares for another song.
Aren't you going to do something?
Mary dear, you've delighted us long enough.
But they asked for another song. Mr Bennet shuts the lid.
Let the other young ladies have a turn.
Later. Charlotte and Lizzie are sat together.
Perhaps my family have made a competition to see who can expose themselves to the most ridicule.
Well, at least Bingley has not noticed.
Yes. I think he likes her very much.
But does she like him? There are few of us who are secure enough to be really in love without proper encouragement. Bingley likes her enormously but might not do more if she does not help him on.
She is just shy and modest. If he does not perceive her regard he is a fool.
We are all fools in love. He does not know her character as we do. She should move fast. Snap him up. There is plenty of time for us to get to know them after we're married - Elizabeth looks over the dancefloor to see Lydia dancing with a soldier. she's a little drunk, and very flirtatious. He says something; she shrieks with laughter.
I have never had such a good time in my life. Mr Bingley you must have such a ball once a month at least. Caroline who is standing with her brother, yawns ostentatiously.
Mother. I really think it is time to go.
Don't be impertinent. our hosts are perfectly happy with our company, are you not, Mr Bingley? I hope I can entice you to Longbourn to sample our hospitality. We would make sure you had 3 or 4 courses at least. She holds out her glass for a top up and carries on.
So tell me Mr Bingley. Whom did you like least of all your guests this evening?
Really. This is enough. Darcy looking down at Elizabeth from a staircase. He turns and walks away.
Allowing for new carriages, dresses etcetera, etcetera. We will be having a wedding here at Netherfield in less than three months, if you ask me. Mr Bennet? Mr Bennet! 5o INT. BREAKFAST ROOM - LONGBOURNE - DAY. 50 The Bennets eat in silence. Jane.yawns. Mrs Bennet moans - she is hungover. Mr Collins comes in in a state of agitation. They look at him. He sits, hesitates, then
Oh! Yes. Certainly - Lizzy would be very happy indeed. Please -- go ahead. No time like the present. Everyone. Out. Mr Collins would like a private audience with your sister. Everyone looks in amazement.
Wait. I beg you. Mr Collins can have nothing to say to me.that anybody need not hear.
No. Nonsense, Lizzy. I desire you-will stay where you are. Everyone else, to the drawing room. Mr Bennet.
But...
Now! Mrs Bennet makes sure everyone leaves, winks at Mr Collins then shuts the door before Elizabeth has time to do anything. Elizabeth looks at Mr Collins who looks at her in earnest. There is a horrible pause of intense embarrassment.
Dear Miss Elizabeth, you can hardly doubt the purpose of my discourse. My attentions have been too marked to be mistaken. Almost as soon as I entered the house I singled you out as the companion of my future life. Elizabeth stares at him, astonished.
But before I am run away with my feelings perhaps I may state my reasons for marrying. Firstly, that it is the duty of a clergyman to set the example of matrimony in his parish.
MR COLLINS Secondly, that I am convinced it will add greatly to my happiness, and, thirdly, that it is at the urging of my esteemed patroness Lady Catherine that I select a wife. We here a kick and Kitty screach from behind the door.
sshhh.
My object in coming to Longbourn was to choose such a one from amongst Mr Bennet's daughters, for as you know I am next in the entail of the estate and such an alliance will surely make amends for this.  And now nothing remains for me but to assure you in the most animated language of the violence of my affections.
Mr Collins -
And that no reproach on the subject of fortune will cross my lips once we are married.
You are too hasty, sir! You forget that I have made no answer.
Sir, I am honoured by your proposal, but regret I must decline it.
(momentarily taken aback, but
I know ladies have their pretty little ways, and don't seek to seem too eager -
 Mr Collins, I am perfectly serious. You could not make me happy and I'm convinced I'm the last woman in the world who could make you happy.
 Mr Collins -
So I must conclude that you simply seek to increase my love by suspense, according to the usual practice of elegant females.
Sir! I am not the sort of female to torment a respectable man. Please understand me - I cannot accept you! Elizabeth storms out of the room and out of the house. Mrs Bennet crashes in through another door, hot on the tail of Elizabeth.
Declined indeed! The headstrong, foolish
Thank you, but... Head strong?
- we shall have this little hiccup dealt with immediately, Mr Collins. Mrs Bennet goes chases after Elizabeth. Mr Collins watches through a window as Elizabeth is chased by her mother.
Oh Mr Bennet. We are all in a uproar. You must come and make Lizzy marry Mr Collins, for she vows she will not have him.
Mr Collins, Mr Collins has proposed to Lizzie. But Lizzy declares she will not have him, and now the danger is Mr Collins may not have Lizzy.
And what am I to do? Mrs Bennet drags Mr Bennet to his feet.
Speak to Lizzy. They march to find Elizabeth.
Tell her that you insist upon them marrying.
Papa, please - '.
You will have this house!
I can't marry him!
You'll save your sisters from destitution!
I can't! -
Go back now and say you've changed your mind!
No!
Think of your family!
You can't make me!
Mr Bennet, say something!
Yes, or I shall never see her again?
Well, Lizzie. From this day on you must be a stranger to one of your parents -
Your mother will never see you again if you do not marry Mr Collins, and I will never see you again if you do.
Thank you, papa. Elizabeth turns around and walks into the drawing room.
Oh, ungrateful child! I shall never speak to her again! Not that I have much pleasure in talking to anybody. People who suffer as I do from nervous complaints can have no inclination for talking. Nobody can tell what I suffer... She jabbers on but her voice fades. We're with Jane, re- reading the letter.
What's wrong, Jane? Close on Jane's pale face. She's staring at the letter.
I don't understand. What would take him from Netherfield? Why would he not know when he was to return?
I have no reserves from you. Jane passes Elizabeth the letter.
"Mr Darcy is impatient to see his sister and we are scarcely less eager to meet her again. I really do not think Georgina Darcy has her equal for beauty, elegance and accomplishments, so much so I must hope to hereafter call her my sister. It is my duty to indulge you in no hope in this respect for your own self."
Is that not clear enough?
Miss Bingley sees that her brother is in love with you and is gone with him to persuade him otherwise.
But I know her to be incapable of wilfully deceiving anyone.
He loves you, Jane. Do not give up. Go to our aunt and uncle's in London.
Let it be known you are there and I am sure he will come to you.
Give my love to my sister. And try not to be so much of a burden, dear. Jane's carriage moves away and the family wave. Mr Bennet talks to Elizabeth.
Poor Jane. However, a girl likes to be crossed in love now and then. It gives her something to think of, and a sort of distinction among her companions.
It's your turn now, Lizzie. Since you've turned down Mr Collins you're free to go off and be jilted yourself. What about Mr Wickham? He is a pleasant fellow and would do the job credibly.
Thank you, but a less agreeable man would satisfy me. We must not all expect Jane's good fortune.
Still, it's a comfort to know that whatever might befall you, you have an affectionate mother who will be sure to make the most of it. A small smile from Elizabeth.
My dear Elizabeth, I've come here to tell you the news.
What news?
Engaged?
No, no...  Of course not.
He asked for my hand this morning .and I accepted him. Elizabeth looks quite faint. Charlotte sits on the bed. Elizabeth, after a pause, sits down beside her.
I can see you're surprised - coming so soon after his wishing to marry you...
I'm not a romantic, you know. I ask only a comfortable home, and considering Mr Collin's character, and situation in life, I am convinced that my chance of happiness with him is as fair as most people can hope for.
And that's all you expect?
For women in our situation, what choice is there?
- to become an old maid, at best tolerated, at worst a burden, dependent on the kindness of others? Or to seek the protection of marriage.
And we only have two choices?
Yes. An appalled silence. Elizabeth gazes at her closest friend. Charlotte has recovered herself. she now looks cool and composed - unnervingly so.
You can still change your mind, Charlotte.
 I'm twenty-seven years old. We hear the sound of the militia drums...
It's too dreadful! They're leaving for Brighton.
All of them?
They got the call this morning.
Not a word of warning! Lydia wails. Elizabeth searches the red coats for Wickham. She spots him, he glances across at her, she gives a pathetic wave and he's gone. Lydia and Kitty chase the last of the officers, leaving Elizabeth alone. She walks into the post office.
Bad news, Miss?
It could not be worse. I have been invited to possibly the very last place on earth I would like to go.
Welcome to our humble abode...
My dear, I think our guest is tired after her journey. Come on, Lizzie, let's get some tea.
My wife encourages me to spend as much time in the garden as possible, for the sake of my health. A beat. Lizzie glances at Charlotte, who remains impassive.
I plan many improvements, of course.  I intend. to throw out a bow there, and plant a lime walk.  Oh yes, I flatter myself that any young lady would be happy to be the mistress of such a house. A tiny nod from Elizabeth. She understands perfectly.
We shall not be disturbed here, for this parlour is for my own particular use.
Charlotte! Come here! Charlotte jumps up and rushes to the window.
Charlotte!
Its all right. Its just Lady Catherine.
Tell me, how are things concerning Mr Wickham? Elizabeth's face changes.
I have not heard from Mr Wickham since the regiment left for Brighton, but I am informed by Lydia who keeps a breast of all matters military that he does very well.
Oh Lizzie. we hear Mr Collins rushing back into the house, and running up the stairs.
Great news! Great news! He comes into the room, breathlessly excited.
We have an invitation to visit Rosings this evening from Lady Catherine de Bourgh. Elizabeth is not overcome with enthusiasm.
Do not make yourself uneasy, my dear cousin, about your apparel. Just put on that which is best among your clothes and Lady Catherine will not think the worse of you.
One of the most extraordinary sights in all Europe, is it not. The glazing alone cost upwards of twenty thousand pounds.
 This way!
Your Ladyship.  Miss de Bourg. Lady Catherine is a haughty, bossy woman. Pretty unspeakable, really. Her daughter is a sickly, irritable- looking creature.
So you are Elizabeth Bennet.
I am, your ladyship.
 Hmm.  This is my daughter.
 The chimneypiece alone cost 400. But Lizzie doesn't hear. Darcy walks into the room. Lizzie freezes. When he sees Lizzie he, too, falters, and recovers himself. Another man  is with him.
Mr Darcy! What are you doing here?
Mr Darcy!  I had no idea we would have the honour... A stiff bow from Darcy, who looks at Mr Collins as if he's something brought in by the dog. He turns to Lizzie, trying to collect himself.
Yes, madam, I had the pleasure of meeting him in Hertfordshire. Darcy's friend Fitzwilliam, a much more easy-going chap, introduces himself.
Colonel Fitzwilliam. How do you do? He bows. Lizzie returns his smile gratefully. They move towards the dining room. Mr Collins leans towards Lizzie.
Really? Miss Bingley will be disappointed to hear that. (looks at the girl, and whispers to charlotte) What a sickly, cross little thing! Oh yes, they should suit each other very well. Charlotte smiles back, a little fearfully. She's more intimidated by Rosings than Elizabeth is, and indeed has more at stake. 9 The dining room is laid for a very grand dinner -- footmen waiting, thousands of candles.
You sit there and you sit there. Mr Collins! You can't sit next to your wife! After some awkward shuffling around they all sit down. Lizzie, much to her discomfort, finds herself sitting next to Darcy. There is a pause.
I trust your family is in good health, Miss Bennet?
They are, thank you.
Do you play the pianoforte, Miss Bennet?
A little, ma'am, and very poorly.
Oh. Do you draw?
No, not at all.
Your sisters, do they draw?
Not one.
That is very strange. But I suppose you had no opportunity. Your mother should have taken you to town every spring for the benefit of the masters.
My mother would have no objection but my father hates London.
Has your governess left you?
We never had a governess. Mr Collins squirms in embarrassment. Darcy watches Elizabeth, keenly.
No governess? Five daughters brought up at home without a governess, I never heard such a thing! Your mother must have been quite a slave to your education.
 Not at all, Lady Catherine.
Mmmm. Are any of your younger sisters out?
Yes, ma'am. All.
All! What, five out at once? Very odd! And you only the second - the younger ones out before the elders are married! Your youngest sisters must be very young.
Yes, my youngest is not sixteen. But I think it would be very hard on younger sisters, not to have their share of amusement because the elder is still unmarried. And to be kept back on such a motive! It would hardly encourage sisterly affection.
Upon my word, you give your opinion very decidedly for so young a person. Pray, what is your age?
it. Lady Catherine looks astonished. Mr Collins shifts in his seat. Mr Darcy glances sharply - in fact, admiringly - at Lizzie. She's enjoying herself.
Come, Miss Bennet, and play for us!
No, I beg you -
For music is my delight. In fact there are few people in England who have more true enjoyment of music than myself, or better natural taste. If I had ever learnt, I should have been a great proficient.
Please, I told you I play poorly -
How does Georgina get along, Darcy?
She plays very well.
I hope she practises. No excellence can be acquired without constant practice. I have told Mrs Collins this.  Though you have no instrument of your own you are very welcome to come to Rosings and play on the piano in the housekeeper's room.
Thank you, your ladyship.
You would be in nobody's way", you know, in that part of the house. Darcy flinches at her bad manners. He moves away to the piano where Lizzie is playing - not that terribly well, it must be said. A moment passes.
You mean to frighten me, Mr Darcy, by coming in all your state to hear me, but I won't be alarmed even though your sister does play so well.
I am well enough acquainted with you, Miss Bennet, to know I cannot alarm you even should I wish it. A beat. They eye each other warily. Colonel Fitzwilliam joins them.
You really care to know? The colonel nods.
Prepare yourself for something very dreadful.
Fitzwilliam! Come here and talk to us! 0 Fitzwilliam moves away. Darcy and Elizabeth are alone.
I do not have the talent of conversing easily with people I have never met before.
Maybe you should take your aunt's advice and practice. Ouch! Darcy flinches. Lizzie turns away from him and carries on playing. Darcy gazes at the curve of her neck. She plays a false note, stumbles, and grimly carries on.
Please, do be seated.
This is a charming house. I believe my aunt did a great deal to it when Mr Collins first arrived.
I believe so -- and she could not have bestowed her kindness on a more grateful
Another pause.
Mr Collins seems very fortunate in his choice of wife.
He is indeed lucky to have found one of the few sensible women who would have accepted him. Darcy sits down.
Shall I call for some tea?
No. Thankyou. The sound of the front door, and voices. Darcy jumps up.
Good day, Miss Bennet. It's been a pleasure. He bows to her and leaves. Elizabeth sits there, bemused and intrigued.
Charlotte, in the hallway, taking off her bonnet. Darcy hurries past her, with a swift bow, and leaves abruptly. Charlotte gazes after him in surprise. Charlotte heads to the drawing room where she finds Elizabeth sitting, bemused.
What on earth have you done to poor Mr Darcy?
I have no idea. 73 She truly doesn't. Charlotte gives Elizabeth a look 73
How long do you plan to stay in Kent, Colonel?
As long as Darcy chooses. I am at his disposal.
I do imagine your cousin brought you down with him chiefly to have someone to order around. I wonder he does not marry and secure a lasting convenience of that kind.
She would be a lucky woman.
Really?
Darcy is a most loyal companion. From what I heard, on our journey here, he recently came to the rescue of one of his friends just in time. Darcy, waylaid by various people, comes out of the church. His eyes search for Elizabeth. He sees her with Fitzwilliam and hesitates. Too late! Mr Collins steps up to him and engages him in conversation. Elizabeth stops, at the churchyard gate.
What happened?
He saved the man from an imprudent marriage.
His closest friend. Mr Bingley. A silence.
Did Mr Darcy give you his reasons for this interference?
There were apparently strong objections to the lady.
What kind of objections? Her lack of fortune?
I think it was her family that was considered unsuitable.
So he separated them?
I believe so. I know nothing else. Elizabeth grows pale. She turns to look at Darcy who is joined by his aunt.
I wish Mr Darcy and all his friends well in finding partners suitable to their very high standards. Good morning, Col. Fitzwilliam. 76 Elizabeth see that Collinses are still busy with their 76 parishioners and slips away. Darcy sees her from a distance.
A Grecian summer house by the lake. The rain is now bucketing down. Lizzie hurries into the summer house and sits down, heavily, on a bench. Her poor sister; Lizzie gazes in despair at the rain- lashed landscape. A man approaches, across the park. He draws nearer. It's Darcy. Elizabeth stiffens. He's hurrying towards her. Sodden, breathless, he comes into the. summer house. He is in a state of agitation - far too agitated to notice her upset face.
Miss Bennet, I have struggled in vain but I can bear it no longer ... . The past months have been a torment... He pauses, unable to speak. Elizabeth stares at him in astonishment. He struggles on.
I came to Rosings with the single object of seeing you...I had to see you...
Me?
I've fought against my better judgement, my family's expectation...
I don't understand...
Please do me the honour of accepting my hand. A silence. Elizabeth struggles with the most painful confusion of feeling. Finally she recovers.
Yes, sir.
Are you laughing at me?
No?
Are you rejecting me?
Might I ask why, with so little endeavour at civility, I am thus repulsed?
 I might as well enquire why, with so. evident a design of insulting me, you chose to tell me that you liked me against your better judgement. If I was uncivil, that was some excuse -
Believe me, I didn't mean -
But I have other reasons, you know I have!
What reasons?
Do you think that anything might tempt me to accept the man who has ruined, perhaps for ever, the happiness of a most beloved sister? Silence. Darcy looks as if he's been struck across the face.
Do you deny it, Mr Darcy? That you separated a young couple who loved each other, exposing your friend to the censure of the world for caprice, and my sister to its derision for disappointed hopes, and involving them both in misery of the acutest kind?
I do not deny it.
Because I believed your sister indifferent to him.
Indifferent?
I watched them most carefully, and realized his attachment was much deeper than hers.
That's because she's shy!
Bingley too is modest, and was persuaded that she didn't feel strongly for him.
Because you suggested it!
I did it for his own good.
My sister hardly shows her true feelings to me!  I suppose you suspect that his fortune had some bearing on the matter?
What was?
It was made perfectly clear that-an advantageous marriage...
Did my sister give that impression?
No! An awkward pause.
There was, however, I have to admit... the matter of your family -
Our want of connection? Mr Bingley didn't vex himself about that!
No, it was more than that.
How, sir?
 It pains me to say this, but it was the lack of propriety shown by your mother, your three younger sisters - even, on occasion, your father. Forgive me. Lizzie blushes. He has hit home. Darcy paces up and down.
You and your sister -- I must exclude from this... Darcy stops and gazes at her. He is in turmoil. Elizabeth glares at him, in a blaze of fury and misery.
And what about Mr Wickham?
Mr Wickham?
What excuse can you give for your behavior to him?
You take an eager interest in that gentleman's concerns!
He told me of his misfortunes.
Oh yes, his misfortunes have been very great indeed!
You have ruined his chances, and yet treat him with sarcasm?
So this is your opinion of me! Thank you for explaining so fully. Perhaps these offences might have been overlooked, if your pride had not been hurt -
My pride?
- by my honesty in admitting scruples about our relationship.
Could you expect me to rejoice in the inferiority of your circumstances?
And those are the words of a gentleman? From the first moment I met you, your arrogance and conceit, your selfish distain of the feelings of others, made me realize that you were the last man in the world I could ever be prevailed upon to marry. Darcy recoils, as if slapped. A terrible silence.
Forgive me, madam, for taking up so much of your time. He leaves, abruptly. Elizabeth watches him stride away, through the rain. What has she done? She bitterly bursts into tears.
Elizabeth!
I was caught somewhat off-guard.
Shall I call the doctor?
No! Charlotte, I shall be quite all right. Please, give Lady de Bourgh my apologies. You must not keep her waiting. Mr Collins clatters up the stairs.
(popping his head around the
Come on. We shall be late!
Later; The sound of the front door closing. Elizabeth sits down, heavily, on the bed. She walks downstairs and enters the drawing room.
I came to leave you this. He places a letter on the table behind her. Elizabeth does not turn but watches him through the mirror.
I'm not going to renew the sentiments which were so disgusting to you, but to address the two offenses you have laid against me. I had not long been in Hertfordshire before I saw that Bingley
Yet when I observed your sister .1 detected no symptom of peculiar regard, and witnessed only the families coarse appetite for having their daughters married favorably. And so in London, perhaps erroneously, I persuaded him of the unfitness of the match citing your sisters coolness towards him. We zoom in on Elizabeth's reflection.
It was unknowingly done and though the motives which governed me may to you appear naturally insufficient, they were done to protect a friend. As to the other more serious matter..
"My father provided for Mr Wickham a valuable living. Elizabeth tears open the envelope, her hands shaking, and reads the letter, as Darcy's voice carries on.
"But upon his death, however, Mr Wickham told me that he had no intention of taking orders and would I recompense him to the tune of 3000 so he could go to town and study the law. We circle Elizabeth as she reads.
Holding the letter she looks out of the window to see Darcy riding away.
"But last summer he was unwillingly obtruded on my notice when he connived a relationship with my sister whom he persuaded to be in love with him and made her consent to an elopement. She was but fifteen.
Mr Wickham's prime objective was her inheritance of thirty thousand pounds but hope of revenging me was a strong inducement. I was lucky enough to persuade my sister of her folly. I hope this goes someway to mitigating my behaviour in your eyes. If you doubt my word please have it confirmed by my
Lizzy: Are you alright?
I do not know. I hardly know myself. Elizabeth looks at Charlotte utterly shaken.
P.S. As we shall never meet again, I wish you all happiness in the future. Elizabeth looks out at the high warehouse building and the bustle of trade. There is no horizon. is 79 INT. GARDINERS HOUSE - CHEAPSIDE - DAY. 7 Mrs Gardiner, the girls' kindly aunt, is taking Elizabeth's coat from her.
How fortunate, you are here just in time to catch everybody coming through from Longbourn.
How is Jane? Mrs Gardiner smiles sadly.
She is outside. Through a window Elizabeth sees Jane sitting quietly alone at her needle work.
I am quite over him, Lizzie. If he passed in the street I would hardly notice. London is so diverting...
oh Jane...
Its true! What with the theatre and... But tell me, what news from Kent?
Nothing. Everything as you might imagine. Elizabeth tries to smile. There is a crash as all the Bennet's arrive at the house. Kitty rushes into the garden crying her eyes out, she is followed by Lydia and Mrs Bennet.
Lizzie, tell mama, tell her!
Kitty, what's happened?
- because she likes me better.
I've just as much right as Lydia -
Oh, if I could but go to Brighton -
- and more so, because I'm two years older! Elizabeth looks to Jane.
Lydia has been invited to Brighton with the Foresters.
A little sea-bathing would set me up very
I shall dine with the officers every night! An anguished wail from Kitty.
I'm sure I cried for two days when Colonel Millar's regiment went away. thought I should have broke my heart.
Mother! Are you all mad? She glares at them, deeply upset -- by them, by everything.
Please Papa, don't let her go!
Lydia will never be easy till she has exposed herself in some public place or other, and we can never expect her to do it with so little inconvenience as under the present circumstances.
 If you, dear father, will not take the trouble to check her, she will be fixed forever as the silliest and most determined flirt who ever made her family ridiculous. And Kitty will follow, as she always does.
We shall have no peace until she goes.
 Peace! Is that all you care about?
Colonel Forster is a sensible man and will keep her out of any real mischief, and she is far too poor to be an object of prey to anyone.
Father, its dangerous! -
I'm sure the officers will find women better worth their while. Let us hope, in fact, that her stay in Brighton will teach her her own insignificance. At any rate she can hardly grow any worse, without authorizing us to lock her up for the rest of her life. Elizabeth gazes at her father - will nothing touch him? He gave up on his daughter long ago. For this, just now, she hates him.
No wonder our family is treated with contempt. She leaves, tears stinging her eyes. Her father looks puzzled at her outburst.
Well, at least the house will be quieter.
I don't wish to be stuck with such a foolish family any longer, with your constant talk of men and marriages. Surely there is more to life.
Lizzie dear, you would be very welcome to accompany us?
Oh yes. We plan to journey through the Peak District. You'd be most welcome.
Oh, the glories of nature! What are men, compared to rocks and mountains?
Believe me, men are either eaten up with arrogance or stupidity. And if they're amiable they're so easily led that they have no minds of their own whatsoever.
Take care, my love, that savours strongly of bitterness.
No, they bring nothing but heartache.
I saw Mr Darcy when I was in Rosings.
Why did you not tell me. Did he mention Mr Bingley. Pause.
No. He did not. Elizabeth has never felt more alone in the company of her sister.
 He's been taking the waters at Buxton.
But we've had a fine time, haven't we dear?
We've visited Chatsworth, Dovedale,
Pemberley?
Just two miles from here. close, very close, on Lizzie's face.
One of the best houses in the country.
Well, we shall go there tomorrow, Lizzie.
I would rather stay here.
Stay here?
But you liked Chatsworth.
If it is anything like Mr Darcy, I am sure I will not be able to bear it.
Come, come, Lizzie.
Let us not make a fuss. If the girl does not want to go there is little point in persuading her.
I hear that Pemberley is not far from here.
Yes, madam.
You see something of the owner, do you, in town?
Not for some months, madam, for he's still in London, I believe. A pause. Close on Elizabeth's face.
I'm so glad you changed your mind. Elizabeth is alert, her eyes bright with curiosity. The parkland is wild and rocky. Deer graze; rooks wheel in the sky. A sense of freedom and liberation. As the carriage drives over the top of a hill, close on Elizabeth's face. She gasps. The Gardiners gasp. A huge, wide shot of Pemberley House. It's vast, breathtakingly beautiful, set in great boulder-strewn park lands. A mansion built of golden stone, glowing in the sunlight.
Imagine being mistress of all this. It is as big as all Cheapside. Elizabeth is lost in admiration.
This is my master - Mr Darcy.
A handsome face. Lizzie, is it a true likeness of him?
Does this young lady know Mr Darcy?
Only a little.
And do you not think him a handsome man, Miss?
And this is his sister, Miss Georgians. She plays and sings all day long. We realize that in the distance we have heard music. Elizabeth is still gazing at the portrait of Darcy, then suddenly snaps out of her reverie, as she processes Mrs
They are at home?!
Miss Darcy is always down for the summer. Mr Darcy is due here tomorrow.
Is your master much at Pemberley?
Not as much as I would wish, sir, or he -- for he dearly loves it here. Relaxed again Elizabeth wanders off as the Gardiners talk to Mrs Reynolds.
If he should marry, you might see more of him.
Yes madam, but I do not know when that will be. I do not know a lady who is good enough for him.
What do you mean?
I've known Mr Darcy since he was a boy. He was always a kind and generous person even then. Not everyone can see it, because he does not make a meal of it like a lot of young men nowadays. But he is the most sweet-tempered and kind- hearted man I have ever known.
As the Gardiners look at more paintings, Elizabeth drifts out through the open doors and onto a terrace. In the bright sunlight the view of the gardens and valley beyond is exquisite. Outside the music we heard before is louder.
Miss Bennet! Elizabeth stops, appallingly embarrassed. Darcy catches up with her. They both blush, deeply.
I thought you were in London.
No. Another ghastly silence. Then they both speak at once.
I came here a day early - We wouldn't have come -
-- some business with my I'm so terribly sorry -
They stop. He gazes at her with great emotion.
I'm visiting Derbyshire with my uncle and aunt.
 And are you having a pleasant trip?
Very pleasant. Tomorrow we go to Matlock.
Tomorrow?
Yes. At the Rose and Crown. Another pause. She extends her hand.
I'm so sorry to intrude. They said the house was open for visitors. I had no idea... She shakes his hand and starts to walk away.
May I see you to the village?
Oh no! I'm very fond of walking.
Yes.
Goodbye, Mr Darcy.
A wood. Now she is out of sight Lizzie collapses on a log. She is utterly undone. Around her, the birds sing.
- I shall send my carriage at noon After a moment Darcy leaves and Elizabeth approaches the table.
Very civil.
Not at all like you painted him.
- there is something pleasing about his mouth, when he speaks.
You don't mind delaying our journey for another day? Elizabeth shakes her head, dumbly.
He particularly wishes you to meet his sister.
His sister?
My sister, Miss Darcy... They smile and bob. Georgiana is a friendly, sweet girl.
Miss Elizabeth, my brother has told me so much about you. I feel as if we are friends already.
What a beautiful instrument.
My brother gave it to me.  He shouldn't have.
Yes I should.
Oh very well then.
She's easily persuaded, is she not? They gaze at each other with affection. Miss Bingley approaches.
Very well. He hopes to come here soon. (significant glance at
Pemberley has a special attraction for him.
And how is your family, Miss Bennet? Someone told me the militia are removed from Meryton.
Your uncle is fond of fishing, I hear.
Yes, very.
 Can you persuade him to borrow a rod this afternoon?
For the lake here is very well stocked and its occupants left in peace for far too long. Elizabeth smiles, surprised and delighted. And grateful to be rescued. What does Mr Darcy mean by this? She moves away, to speak to her uncle. Miss Bingley moves closer to Darcy.
In six months I have never seen anyone so altered. How brown and coarse she has become!
I perceive no alteration' except she is rather tanned. Hardly a miraculous consequence of travelling in the summer.
I remember, when we first knew her in Hertfordshire, you said "she a beauty? I would have as soon called her mother a wit!"
You must have mis-heard, Caroline. Even had I thought it, I would have couched it
It is so beautiful up here. I will be sorry to leave. Darcy smiles at her.
You have been a most gracious host. I'm sure my aunt and uncle will talk of nothing else for days.
I have recently thought a great deal about how I appear and act to others.
It does you credit, sir.
 What a capital fellow.
Thank you so much Mr Darcy. Darcy is about to take his leave when a servant brings Elizabeth a letter.
Miss Elizabeth. She cries on.
Miss Elizabeth. She eventually gathers herself.
It is the most dreadful news. Lydia has run away - with Mr Wickham. They are gone together from Brighton to Lord knows where. She has no money, no connections, I fear she is lost forever.
 This is my fault - if only I had exposed Wickham when I should.
No, this is my fault. I might have prevented all of it by merely being open with my sisters rather than too proud with my knowledge. Mr and Mrs Gardiner look at each other perplexed.
Has anything been done to recover her?
Father has gone to London. But I know very well that nothing can be done. We have not the smallest hope.
Would to heaven that anything could be said or done on my part that could offer consolation to such distress.
Sir, it think it is too late.
I am afraid we must go at once - I will join Mr Bennet and find Lydia before she ruins the family forever.
I am so very sorry. This is grave indeed. I will leave you. Goodbye. Darcy pauses at the door, looks back at Elizabeth and then is gone.
Why did the Foresters let her out of their sight? I always said they were unfit to have charge of her.
You are all ruined. Who will take you now with a fallen sister? Poor Mr Bennet will now have to fight the perfidious Wickham and then be killed...
He hasn't found him yet, Mama.
- and The Collins' will turn us out before he is cold in his grave -
Do not be alarmed, mama. Our uncle is helping in the search.
Lydia must know what this will do to my nerves, such flutterings and spasms all over me...
Excuse me. They ignore him. He tries again
Excuse me, I'm looking for... Mr Bennet takes out a piece of paper.
I am...(his voice breaks up - he clears his throat) I am looking for a Mr Wickham.
We are ruined. Ruined.
How long is this going to go on for?
Don't be too harsh. This is hard for all of us. They walk downstairs.
I can't bear not hearing anything.
Look. It's Papa!
- who is to fight Wickham and make him marry Lydia, now you've come home?
For God's sake let me be!
You suppose them to be still in London?
Oh father, I'm so sorry.
It's been my own doing.
You mustn't be too severe on yourself.
No Lizzie. Let me once in my life feel how much I have been to blame.
It's to Daddy. It's in uncle's writing. Mr Bennet snatches the letter.
As it is addressed to me... He tears it open and begins to read, squinting because he has forgotten his glasses.
He's found them.
Are they married?
 Just wait. I can't make out his script.
Give it to me.
Are they married?
They will be, if father will settle a hundred pounds a year on her. That is Wickham's condition.
A hundred pounds!
You will agree to this, father? The letter is passed around the other girls.
Of course I will agree. But how much your uncle has laid on this wretched man already is anybody's guess.
What do you mean, Father?
No man in his senses would marry Lydia on so slight a temptation as a hundred a year.
Ah, I see.
See what?
Your uncle is very generous.
Do you think it a large sum?
Wickham's a fool if he takes her for less than ten thousand pounds. I should be sorry to think so ill of him in the very - beginning of our relationship.
Ten thousand! Heaven forbid!
Lydia married! And at sixteen too! Ring the bell, Kitty! I must put on my things and tell Lady Lucas! Oh to see her face! And tell the servants they will have a bowl of punch! The other Bennet's are assembled.
We should thank our uncle, Mama.
And so he should help! He's much richer than us, and he hasn't got any children.
A daughter, married!
Is that all you think about?
"Mrs Wickham" - how well it sounds
Now where will they live? Purvis Lodge might do. Ashworth is vacant of course, but it's too far off, I couldn't bear to have her ten miles from me -
Before you take any of these houses, Mrs Bennet, let us be clear. Into one house she will never be welcome. Mrs Bennet stares at him.
- and then we passed Sarah Sims in her carriage so I took off my glove and let my hand just rest on the window frame, so she might see the ring, and then 1 bowed and smiled like anything! Kitty shrieks with envy. Lizzie moves away; she cannot bear it. Wickham catches her eye, but she ignores him.
Jane, I take your place now, and you must go lower, for I am the married woman. She sits down and giggles at her sisters. The maid brings in the food. Lydia holds up her hand, to display her ring to the maid.
You must all go to Brighton, for that is the place to get husbands! I hope you have half my good luck.
Wickham looking uncomfortable. He's talking to the stony- faced Mr Bennet.
I've been enlisted in a regiment in the north of England, sir. l f G MR BENNET
Near Newcastle. We shall travel there next week.
Can I come and stay with you?
That is out. of the question.
Lydia, rattling on to Lizzie.
Well, Monday morning came and I was in such a fuss -
I don't want to hear -
- there was my aunt, preaching and talking away just as if she was reading a sermon, she was horrid unpleasant -
Can't you understand why?
- but I didn't hear a word because I was thinking of my dear Wickham. I longed to know whether he would be married in his blue coat...
Mary turning to Wickham.
The north of England, I believe, boasts some spectacular scenery...
Lydia burbling on, to a stony-faced Lizzie.
- and then my uncle was called away from the church on business and I thought - who is to be our best man if he doesn't come back? Lucky he did come back or I would have had to ask Mr Darcy -
 I forgot! I shouldn't have said a word!
Mr Darcy was at your wedding?
Come on, Wickham! You've got to play.
Yes, come on! Wickham looks slightly abashed - a trapped man. What has he let himself in for? Lizzie comes into the garden, looking for her younger sister. Wickham detaches himself and comes over to her. A rueful smile.
I hope we can be even better friends, now we're brother and sister. An attempt at a twinkling smile, but Elizabeth is now immune to his charm. She nods, briefly.
I hear you visited Pemberley. My dear old home.
Very much.  We found a great deal to talk about.
I'm not supposed to tell. Lizzie abandons her pride. She takes Lydia's hand.
Please, Lydia!
Because he paid for it.
Everything?
People kept saying Wickham owed them money, it was so tedious. So Darcy settled his debts but I don't really like him, do you? Lizzie pulls her back.
But why did he do it?
Mr Darcy.
I have some business with Mr Bingley. Darcy goes inside and the door shuts. The camera cranes slowly upstairs until we can see through the first floor window and into the drawing room. Mr Darcy enters and bows to Mr Bingley. He starts to talk in earnest. Bingley looks stunned by what Darcy is relaying to him. We witness the dumbshow of Darcy confessing that he has wronged Jane Bennet.
Lydia and Wickham are leaving. Mr Bennet stands at a distance. Mrs Bennet sobs as Lydia climbs onto the carriage.
Write to me often, my dear'. Wickham takes his leave of Elizabeth.
Please relay my affections to the Darcy's on your next acquaintance. I am sure he will be pleased to hear things have worked out so well. He joins Lydia.
 Married women never have much time for writing. My sisters may write to me! They'll have nothing else to do. The Mrs Bennet and the girls watch as the carriage drives away.
That is the consequence of marrying a daughter. It must make you better satisfied that your other four are single.
Did you hear the news, madam? Mr Bingley is returning to Netherfield. A stunned silence. Lizzie glances at Jane. She blushes.
Mr Bingley? Mrs Hill indicates a woman in the butcher's shop.
Mrs Nichols is ordering a haunch Of pork, for she expects him tomorrow.
Tomorrow?
Yes, madam. I believe he is alone; his sister remains in town.
Huh! Come along, girls. Their mother goes into the draper's shop. Jane pauses at the threshold.
He is here! He is here, he's at the door!
Oh my goodness! Everybody act naturally. Jane completely freezes. Everybody else goes into a fluster.
Whatever you do, do not appear overbearing. Kitty looks out through a window.
Look. There's someone with him. Mr whats his name. The pompous one from before. Elizabeth looks through the window at Darcy, her heart leaps to her mouth.
Mr Darcy indeed! The very insolence of 0 0 it. What does he think of coming here? Elizabeth returns to her seat and sits down, heavily. Mrs Bennet hurries over to Jane and pinches her cheeks.
Mama!
(to Mary - who is still
Stop that and sit down! Find yourself some work! Oh Lord. They sit there, frozen, pretending to sew. The drawing room door opens and Mrs Hill shows in the two men. They bow. Bingley smiles warmly at Jane, who blushes. Elizabeth glances at Darcy. His face is strained. Mrs Bennet is all smiles for Bingley. She ignores Darcy.
How very glad we are to see you, Mr Bingley! There are a great many changes since you went away. Miss Lucas is married and settled. And one of my own daughters too, you will have seen it in the papers though it was not put in as it ought to have been. Very short, nothing about her family.
- but it's very hard to have my Lydia taken away from me. Mr Wickham has been transferred to Newcastle, where ever that is. Thank heaven he has some friends. Mrs Bennet shoots a frosty glance at Mr Darcy. This is more than Elizabeth can bare.
Do you hope to stay long in the country, Mr Bingley?
Just a few weeks. For the shooting.
When you have killed all your own birds, Mr Bingley, I beg you will come here and shoot as many as you please.
Thank you -
- Mr Bennet will be vastly happy to oblige you, and will save all the best of the covies for you.
Are you well, Mr Darcy?
Quite well, thank you.
Well, I hope the weather stays fine, for your sport.
I return to town tomorrow.
My Jane looks well, does she not? Mr-Bingley stands up abruptly.
She does indeed. Well, I must be going, I suppose. Darcy - Darcy cannot quite believe it. He gives Bingley a harsh stare, Bingley has not completed his task.
It was very pleasant to see you all again. Elizabeth, Miss Jane.. Bingley can almost not bear to look Jane in the eye as he acknowledges them all very briefly and bolts for the door. Mrs Bennet fusses around him.
You must come again. For when you were in town last winter you promised to take a family dinner with us. I have not forgot you see. At least three courses. Bingley and Darcy take their leave, leaving the Bennets sitting in silence all looking at once another. Kitty is fit to burst out laughing, Elizabeth and Jane horrified by the awkward visit.
Oh damn, damn, buggery, damn.
What were you thinking of? It's as if Bingley has not heard. He keeps pacing up and down.
Damn and blast, oh buggery, damn.
Well, I'm glad that's over. We can now meet as indifferent acquaintances.
You cannot think me so weak as to be in
I think you are in great danger of making him as much in love with you as ever.
I'm sorry, though, that he came with Mr Darcy.
 It is him. He's back. He's come again. A stunned reaction.
I, erm, I know this is all very embarrassing, but I would like to request the privilege of speaking to Miss Jane - They all look at him.
- alone.
Girls. Everybody to the kitchen. Immediately. Oh, Mr Bingley. It is so good to see you again so soon. She ushers everyone out, not before squeezing Jane's hand. Now Jane and Bingley are alone, facing each other with extreme embarrassment.
Miss Bennet, you have been the victim of a huge misunderstanding. Suffice to say, I have been an unmitigated and comprehensive ass. And therefore, I would like to ask you -
Ssssshhh! Elizabeth is apart from her family. She cannot bear to be there. She walks down the corridor and out of the house into the garden. Through a window she sees Bingley on one knee, her eyes fill with tears as she walks away from the house.
Yes. A hundred times - yes. Mrs Bennet and the girls throw open the double doors to the drawing room and come crashing in. Bingley and Jane beam at them.
Thank the Lord for that. I thought it would never happen.
I am sure they will do well together,
Exceed their income? He has five thousand a year! I knew she could not be so beautiful for nothing. The camera moves through to another bedroom - where Mary is reading a book out loud to Kitty - then to yet another
He has made me so happy. You know, he. was totally ignorant of my being in town last spring!
How did he account for it?
He thought me indifferent!
Unfathomable.
No doubt poisoned by his pernicious sister.
Bravo! That is the most unforgiving speech you've ever made.
Oh Lizzie, if I could but see you so happy. If there were such another man for you! There is a noise outside.
Perhaps, if I have very good luck, I may meet with another Mr Collins in time. What is that? More noise, it sounds like a carriage, then a loud banging on the door downstairs. The girls look at each other.
Maybe he's changed his mind. Timidly, Mr Bennet opens the door revealing a wide-eyed Lady Catherine de Bourgh. Everyone gasps.
Lady Catherine! Lady Catherine does not acknowledge her, but comes in uninvited, inspecting the assembled company of aghast Bennets.
 And these are your daughters, I suppose.
All but one, the youngest has been lately married your ladyship. And my eldest was only proposed to yesterday afternoon.
You have a very small garden, madam.
I am sure it is nothing compared to Rosings, but it is larger than Sir William Lucas's, I can assure you.
Absolutely not! I must speak to Miss Elizabeth alone, as a matter of complete urgency. The Bennets all look at each other", bewildered by this strange turn of events.
You can be at no loss, Miss Bennet, to understand why I am`here. Lit only by the oil lamp Lady Catherine resembles a flickering ghoul.
Indeed you are mistaken. I can not account for this honour at all.
Miss Bennet, I warn you, I am not to be trifled with. A report of a most alarming nature has reached me that you intend to be united with my nephew, Mr Darcy. Elizabeth stares at her, amazed.
I know this to be a scandalous falsehood, though not wishing to injure him by supposing it possible, I instantly set off to make my sentiments known.
If you believed it impossible, I wonder you took the trouble of coming so far.
To hear it contradicted, Miss Bennet.
If? Do you then pretend to be ignorant of it? Has it not been industriously circulated by yourself?
I have never heard of it.
And can you declare there is no foundation for it?
I do not pretend to possess equal frankness with your ladyship. You may ask the questions, which I may not choose to answer.
This is not to be borne. Has my nephew made you an offer of marriage?
Your Ladyship declared it to be impossible.
Let me be understood. Mr Darcy is engaged to my daughter. Now what have you to say?
Only this - if that is the case you can have no reason to suppose he will make an offer to me.
Oh obstinate girl! This union has been planned since their infancy. Do you think it can be prevented by a young woman of inferior birth, of no importance in the world and wholly unallied to his family? Whose own sister's elopement resulted in the scandalously patched-up marriage, only achieved at the expense of your uncle? Heaven and earth, are the shades of Pemberly to be thus polluted? Now tell me once and for all, are you engaged to him?
I am not.
And will you promise never to enter into such an engagement?
I will not. And I certainly never shall. Allow me to say, the arguments which you have supported this extraordinary application have been as frivolous as the application was ill-judged. You have, insulted me in every possible method and can now have nothing further to say. I must ask you to leave immediately. Good night. Elizabeth throws open.the door, revealing the family outside.
I have never been thus treated in my entire life. Lady Catherine storms past the family and out into the night. Elizabeth is standing shaking with the excitement of having stood so firmly up for herself.
Lizzie, what on earth is going on?
Just a small misunderstanding. She walks past them to bed.
Lizzie!
For once in your life. Just leave me alone. Everyone looks aghast at Elizabeth's reaction.
Mr Darcy!
What are you doing out here so early?
I could not sleep.
Me neither. I have been up.most of the night.
Mr Darcy, I must thank you for your unexampled generosity to both my sisters. I know what kindnesses you have done for poor Lydia and suspect your hand in the happy resolution for Jane also.
I am alarmed that you know of what I have been so in earnest to keep silent. But you must know that your happiness was one of my prime inducements. Elizabeth looks at Darcy.
I know you are too generous to trifle with me. I believe you spoke with my Aunt last night, and it has taught me to hope as I had scarcely allowed myself before. If your feelings are still what they were last April, tell me so at once. My affections and wishes are unchanged, but
If, however, your feelings have changed... Elizabeth gazes at him.
I would have to tell you, you have bewitched me body and soul and I love and love and love you. And never wish to be parted from you from this day on. Elizabeth looks at him. She does not say a word. Darcy is staring at her for a reply. A tear rolls down Elizabeth's cheek.
I am very happy to inform you that not only have my sentiments changed there are no other words which could give me greater pleasure. Darcy stares at her. They both start to cry. Darcy very, very slowly and gently touches her face. She closes her eyes. They kiss. She touches his face with her hand, the kiss becomes passionate.
Lizzie, where have you been. We thought something had happened to you. Darcy follows Elizabeth in.
Mr Darcy! What on earth are you doing here? Elizabeth takes Mr Darcy's hand.
Mr Darcy has come to speak with Papa. Everyone is stunned.
Lizzie, are you out of your senses? I thought you hated the man.
No, Papa.
He is rich, to be sure, and you will have more fine carriages than Jane. But will that make you happy?
None at all. We all know him to be a proud, unpleasant sort of fellow, but this would be nothing if you really liked him.
 I do like him!
What has he done?
Good Lord. I must pay him back.
 No, you mustn't tell anyone! He wouldn't want it.
You do love him, don't you? Elizabeth nods.
Very much. He looks at her earnestly, searching her face. He loves his daughter very deeply. What he sees leaves him in no doubt.
I cannot believe that anyone can deserve you, but it seems I am over-ruled. So I heartily give my consent. Elizabeth jumps up and puts her arms around him.
I could not have parted with you, my Lizzie, to any one less worthy.
Oh thank you! She starts to rush out.
 And if any young men come for Mary or Kitty, send them in, for I am quite at leisure.
Allow me, Mrs Darcy. He puts out his hand. She takes it. He helps her up the rocks. When they get to the top they sit there, side by side, and gaze at the distant lights of Pemberley.
How did it begin?
I cannot fix the hour, or the spot, or
Now be sincere, did you admire me for my impertinenc?
For the liveliness of your mind, I did.
You may as well call it impertinence, though make a virtue of it by all means. My good qualities are under your protection, and you are to exaggerate - them as much as possible. And, in return, it belongs to me to find occasions for teasing and quarrelling with you as often as maybe... and I shall begin directly... We draw back-their figures diminish, smaller and smaller under the immense, star-spangled sky. . .Fainter and fainter, the sound of music and laughter...
