Since the beginning -- the two have been locked forever in combat... The vampires were quicker, stronger and had the gift of flight. Quick glimpses of a bloody, brutal battle. Men screaming. Talons ripping. FIERY ARROWS launched against an unseen enemy.
With a HOWL, we see A MAN plucked off the ground, his body disappearing in the night. THE IMAGE DISSOLVES as -- the sky turns bright, the moon becoming a familiar ball of yellow gas.
But man had the sun. THE CAMERA TILTS DOWN to find another GROUP OF MEN -- more sophisticated than the first. Makeshift weapons made of metal and steel slung across their backs glinting in the sunlight. They stand before AN EARTHEN STRUCTURE, looks like a GIANT WASP NEST. Unsheathing their weapons, they step grimly inside. We HEAR a HISSING WAIL and the wielding of steel.
And so it went like this over many years. As man and vampire both evolved -- the wars became bloodier. From afar, we see GIANT STACKS OF CORPSES as hydraulic machines stack the black bodies into pyres as big as buildings, smoke rising to the sky in twisting columns.
Then came THE PRIESTS -- The Man turns and we see his face is shadowed by a large CROSS TATTOO, cutting across his eyes and down the center.
-- Specially trained warriors in the art of vampire combat. They single-handedly turned the tide for the humans. Quick glimpses of a GROUP OF PRIESTS battling a FURY OF VAMPIRES . Their technique is otherworldy -- combining the brutality of a Maori Warrior. with the grace of a Samurai. The--combat-is intense. Glorious. An explosion of blood and s b m i l
Over time the vampire threat faded. The once fierce race now fatally diminished. A shadow of what they once. were. Through heavy smoke, we see a pile of VAMPIRE CORPSES, a ragged collection of fangs and claws.
The remaining vampires were put Into camps and -- by decree of the High Clergy the Priests disbanded. The former warriors to be integrated as members of regular society. We see a WAX SEAL pressed onto an ancient parchment. The document carefully rolled and stored in an ORNATE CHAMBER.
The human race thrived in relative quiet. The vampire menace quickly forgotten for other, more modern threats.
Our story begins with the rusty SCRAPE of a windmill...
Supper's on! He smiles, studying a. stunning RUBY RED FLOWER, separate from the others. His crown jewel. He closes the door and enters --
SHANNON PACE carries a bowl filled with a steaming green broth, placing it on the dinner table, moving aside a tiny FIGURINE OF JESUS. The surrounding furniture cluttered with religious knickknacks.
You been spending an awful lot of time behind that door. Makes a woman suspicious.
Special project. It's taking a little more time than I thought.
Nothing special about milkweed. Unless you like a thorn in the finger.
It's not Milkweed. Not this year.
What is it?
You'll see. His eyes skate to her face moving in for the kiss -- but he's
Yuck. Pershing-stew again. Their DAUGHTER . Already a heartbreaker. This girl is too young, too pretty to be out here in the badlands.
I can't do it anymore. This outpost. Being all cooped up like this. I'm going
Honey...we know this hasn't been easy for you -- In two years someone else'll study the soil and this'll be their outpost. But for right now -- this is my job.
I don't know what it's like to have a best friend. To have any friends. I want to have a crush. I want secrets.
Aaron. She's thirteen -- She should be with children her own age. Aaron lets out a breath.
Okay. Next year, we'll figure out a way to get you to a school close by. In town.
N year -- that's still plenty of time for you to have a "crush". Lucy deflates, knowing this is as good as it's going to get for awhile. Aaron takes her hand.
Tomorrow I'm heading in town to file. You come with, help your old man out, get a change of scenery. OK?
Dear Lord we thank you for what we are about to receive. Blessing us with your gifts... She.speaks with her eyes clenched shut, words spoken sincerely, nothing perfunctory about it. She's a believer.
We thank you for the earth and the sky and for your bounty through Christ our Lord -- She.stops, opening her eyes -- staring at the plates and glasses on the table. They're RATTLING.
Shh. He cocks his ear, heading a low rumble. Although he's never heard the sound before...he knows it can' only mean one thing. Trying to remain calm, Aaron goes to the window.
Aaron looks at Shannon, an expression on his face she hasn't seen before -
Get the boards)
Get by me. Shannon-and Lucy crouch at his feet.
The RIDERS step from their machines. We don't get a look at their faces as one by one they LEAP onto the house and windmill, SKITTERING across the walls and roof like spiders. The blades of the windmill slowly come to a stop. 11U. OUTPOST 10 r- SAME The power goes out, everything going black.
Finally, the gun clicks empty and we're plunged back into darkness.
From outside we hear the cycles revving. Aaron runs to the door. Rips off the board in time to see --
Her body lying in the dirt, head lurching at an obscene' angle. He brushes back her hair -- ere' g UNCT_URE MABKS in hem neck. Crying, he cradles his, wife. Feverishly looking around for
He keeps screaming but it's no use -- as the-motorcycles fade in the night he knows -- They've taken her. The CAMERA TILTS to the MOON hanging above the plain. it turns BLACK as we now find ourselves peering into --
Go ahead ...scream.
Looks like daddy's already here.  Well, then. Come on daddy...make it better. The Figure steps into a pool of white light, giving us our first good look at him -- A LAL RGE AK CROSS TATTOO shadows most of his-- a e. Across the eyes and down the center. The Mark Of The Priest.
Guess we'll find out. They move in on Priest, chemicals burning in their blood, mouths leering. Priest folds his hands into the prayer position. The Workers look at each other. Laugh.
What's he gonna do. . .BLESS us to death? VOOMI -- There's a whirling SNARL of sound -- the sonic equivalent of a back flip and -- Pries is holding their knives. Before they can react, he throws the knives into their feet. They HOWL, pinned to the concrete. Scared, the leader clutches the girl, pressing against the brick wall as Priest moves towards him.
This ain't the war no more. You got no right meddlin'.
Gawks at Priest, possibly more frightened of him than the workers. He turns to her, wanting to comfort her but not knowing how -- She flinches and runs away, disappearing into the street. A BEAT as Priest pries the butcher blade from the hand, wiping it off. Tucks it in his waistband. He moves on.
Bless me Father for I have sinned...again. The voice is like gravel from the bottom of a deep well. Quietly commanding. Koeppen knows it well.
I caught the ambulance picking up what was left of the factory boys...figured it was your handywork. The Shape leans forward, we see it is Priest.
This time there was a little girl.
if this keeps occurring it'll be .impossible to keep it from the Clergy. You'll get us both excommunicated. Priest gazes into the vestibule, his voice almost a whisper.
I want to see the other Priests.
You know you can't. The Clergy forbids it.
Why?
They have their reasons. Priest flicks his eyes over Koeppen as if he could see through the vestibule, but his expression doesn't change.
And their reasons for building more and more factories? The sky is turning black.
Since when is. industriousness a sin? Did Jesus not teach us to be productive?
You're my friend.
I'm a wicked old man who'd sell his parish for a pint of whiskey. Priest seems to deflate, his hard shell cracking.
I don't know what's happening to me. (7, Questions. Doubts. I'm not sure what it is. Koeppen slides the vestibule open so they are now face to face.
The devil comes in many shapes. Do yourself a favor, keep your head down. Be smart. And most of all remember your oath... He hands Priest a set of ROSARY BEADS.
"To go against the Church is to go against God". This statement has always been the boilerplate of Priest's existence -- but tonight, it Just sounds like empty dogma. He squeezes his eyes shut, clutching the,rosary as we CUT TO:
The elevator arrives and they step inside.
Who is it?
Messenger. Priest opens the door. A MESSENGER holds up a PUNCH CARD.
I gota Priority Punch. Originated in the wasteland. Priest takes the card, the man writing up a receipt.
At the Cities center, a municipal of baroque BASILICAS AND .CHURCHES -- all safely walled off from the rest of the metropolis.
Thank you for meeting with me on such short notice, Monsignors. Even the Monsignors are uneasy'around Priest. Their leader, ORELAS, leans forward, addressing him.
Father Koeppen notified us of the situation. Our prayers are with your family.
I come before you because I would like my authority to be reinstated.
On what grounds? Priest is taken aback.
She's my blood, Monsignor.
The proper authorities are handling the situation. I'm sure they'll.do a fine job.
The proper authorities?
All occurrences of vampire. disobedience and felonies are strictly a Federal matter now.
But Monsignor...they are the enemy.
Were.the enemy. The war ended a long time ago.
Not so long that we should forget what they are capable of.
You would do well to remember the words of our Savior: Turn the other cheek. Embrace your enemies.
I can be of.great service to the investigation. I -can
You forget yourself, Priest... It has been brought to our attention that you have engaged in a number of transgressions. Tell me...do you feel yourself to be above God?
No, Monsignor.
Engaging in any kind of practice is sacrilege -- You bring shame upon our house. Priest turns the full force of his gaze on him.
"Let your light shine before men, that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in Heaven" --
You dare quote scripture to met Questioning the . authority. of the Clergy is forbidden1 If you engage in another transgression.you will be stripped from the Order and excommunicated immediately. Do I make myself clear?
Yes, sir.'
I said do I make myself clear,. Father.
Yes, Monsignor.
You're a soldier. God's soldier-- Act like one.
-- Eather..Kam, please stay behind for a moment, a .we have something we need to discuss. Off Koeppen's expression we CUT TO:
I knew I'd find you here. He sits, pouring himself another drink, toasting the poor souls at the surrounding tables.
How many nights in this very spot? You with your endless questions on the nature of suffering-Me with none of the answers. Priest doesn't even acknowledge him, lost in his thoughts.
Well, now I'm the one with a question. This one's a riddle.
Why won't they listen to me? A beat. Koeppen takes another drink.
Okay. I'm going to.give you one more riddle and if you listen close - you might just hear an answer to your question. 
How can a man who spent his whole life searching for devils miss the ones staring him in the face? From behind, a CLICKING sound. Priest turns to find an OFFICER standing, LASER-GUIDED SHOTGUN pointed at him. The soup kitchen suddenly deathly quiet.
The Church feels it's better to keep you under its care...at least until this trouble with your niece blows over..
You know I can't do that.
That's what I figured.
Why?
Then ...I go against God. In an eyeblink -- Priest strips the gun from the nearby officer, CRACKING it against the trooper's head, his attack graceful and precise -- a whirlwind of PINPOINTED BLOWS and SHATTERED BONES. When it's over, eleven troopers lie on the ground writhing. Everything goes quiet.
Folds his hands into the prayer position. VOONI There's a POP OF AIR and ---
The: troopers look around confused -- their guns have disappeared.
Looks at his fancy whiskey bottle, inside now floats Priest's ROSARY BEADS. He fishes them from the bottle, hand shaking.
Heaven help us. He takes a swig.
oh my God...I am sorry for. having offended you. it was never my intention to do so... His words continue OVER
I want so much to firmly resolve with the help of your grace to sin no more and to .avoid the near occasions of sin.
if this thing were a horse it'd be the ultimate stallion-- Pulse engine. Nitrous. The works. A panel of black titanium solar cells covers the bike like armor. He races onto the street.
All I can do is ask for forgiveness for what is yet to come...
I now know the devil lives within me. The sins coming all too easy... Still on his bike, Priest's foot touches the ground, blocking our view as we CUT TO:
And all too frequently. Priest REVS his bike, gunning out the doors. UNCONSCIOUS BODIES left in his wake.
Priest's cycle streaks across the salt flats. It's glorious.
Quietly, A COWBOY HAT and a SHOTGUN BARREL emerge from a hole in the floor.
Alright, now -- Not another step. Climbing out from the hole, both barrels pointed, is SHERIFF HICKS . You could say the name fits. But you'd only be half right.
Thought you'd come back for a souvenir, hub? You gotta be the dumbest bloodsucker I ever come across. Priest steps into a pool of moonlight, illuminating his face.
If I was a vampire you'd be dead already. The cross tattoo, a striking image. Hicks stares, pushing his hat back on his forehead.
I'll be dammed. He casually spits some ATOMIC CHAW, hitting the floorboards with a SIZZLE.
Scuse me a minute, He heads towards the crowd, the salesman continuing his pitch.
 If you care about your loved ones then you MUST have this amazing elixir in your homes tonight -- WHOOSH! A KNIFE slices through the air, spears the sack and pins it to a nearby wall with a THUNK. Hicks steps to the front of the crowd. it's his knife.
You best get in that van and clear on out, mister.
I got six right here.
HAM! A bullet blows out the van's headlight.
That's one. KAPOW! The windshield cracks like a spiderweb.
Two. Immediately, the salesman quickly packs up his wares, scrambling for the van door. As he gets in, he catches a look at Priest, pauses a moment, then starts up the vehicle and quickly PEELS away. Hicks pulls the knife from the wall, holds the bag up to the crowd.
Now you all listen up. This bag ain't good fornothin' but linin' that man's pockets with your hard earned money. Much shuffling amongst the people -- they trust in their sheriff but they're frightened. An older man named, CROCKER, steps up.
You don't know'that. You're just a kid.
I seen enough two-bit hustlers and carry barkers. He ain't no better.
But what if he's right? Hicks tosses the sack to Crocker.
Take a look. (Crocker does, the contents spilling to the ground) Ain't nothin' but sand, flour and maybe 'a little garlic.. Oldest trick in the
And what about the girl? Hicks pauses. This is not easily said.
I filed a report with the Cities last night. I'm sure they're Join' all they can. The townspeople mutter amongst themselves. Hicks looks over to Priest, a GROUP OF CHILDREN have already gathered,. pointing and whispering at him.
I've already had one of the boys send for your brother. We got him put up at Paddy's place. Priest gazes out . the; window. A group of TOWNSPEOPLE are milling out front, staring at him.. He pulls down the shade.
You're gonna have to excuse the attention.. We don't get strangers `round here too much -- "Specially no Priest. 'Course we ain't never had no vampire attack in.these parts before.  But then you're just here to perform the service, right? Priest doesn't reply, staring at a yellowed wanted poster.
Never much of a believer myself. I figure I got one bullet to shoot. I'm gonna shoot it my way... not how some BOOK tells me to.
comes through, looking older than the last time we saw him. Seeing Priest, his face cracks, smiling for the first time in days.
You came. Overcome, he wraps his arms around his brother, embracing. him. Priest hugs him back.
Lies in a freshly dug hole. Priest sprinkles dirt across.the casket, offering prayers. Aaron watches,. silently. A GROUP OF TOWNSPEOPLE encircle the grave. Everyone wearing black goggles for protection from the swirling dust.
Stands apart from the others, hat in his hands. His eyes focused on Priest. Not even watching as -- Aaron plants the RUBY RED FLOWER at the head of the grave. Its glorious color almost obscene in this barren wasteland.
Jackrabbit Stew. Never served no man of the cloth before. Hope you like it spicy, Father! He stands over both of them, eager for a response. Priest takes a sip, grimaces, tries his best to smile but fails hideously.
.Delicious
 `Course it isl it was me Ma's recipe. As Paddy jubilantly walks away, Priest puts the bowl on the floor and the dog pads over, eagerly lapping it up. Aaron smiles.
How come you never came round more? You know you were always welcome.
I know.
After the war was over we figured you'd stay with us. Shannon was real fond of you. Lucy too. She was always asking about you. Uncomfortable with the conversation, Priest pulls out a map, unrolling it onto the wooden table. He moves his finger across the paper.
The pack headed in this direction. There's a reservation up that way so that's where I'll start.
if anyone finds out you're doing this --
I'll find her.
And you' 11 bring her back to me. Something in Priest's face darkens. He doesn't answer, not able to look his brother in the eye.
Good afternoon, sir! How may I be of service?
I need bullets.
How many?
How many do you have? The clerk laughs... then realizes he's serious.
No offense, Father. You got a permit, right?
I have this. He pulls out a sack of coins, it hits the counter with a solid THUD. The clerk smiles wider..
Maybe if I knew how to use these she'd still be alive.
Sometimes things just happen. Fault's got nothing to do with it.
Funny. I'm the one who used to say that. You were the one who always said everything was God's will. Priest takes the bullet from him.
I'm not so sure anymore. There's a KNOCK at the door. Aaron opens it slightly. It's Sheriff Hicks.
Aaron.
Sheriff.
You mind if I have a word-with your brother? An awkward BEAT as the two stare at each other. Both knowing what the other's thinking.
It's alright. Let him in. Eyeing Priest, Aaron lets the Sheriff in, shutting the door behind him as he leaves. The vibe in the room is uncomfortable -- Priest not even acknowledging Hicks.
I'm sure you're well aware of the Vampire Protection Act.
it strictly states it is forbidden for anyone to hunt vampires anymore.
These days, things go through proper channels. Paperwork drawn up. investigators called in. Procedures followed.  'Course we both know after a week, girls taken by vampires either and up dead or worse -- turned.
On the other hand -- if I go after Lucy there'll be a warrant on mybead too...and that'll put us in the same briar patch.
We leave at sun up. Priest turns. A moment as each man studies the other.
Why?
We're the only chance she's got. Priest picks a bullet from the table, a carefully notched CROSS now in its tip . He SNAPS it in the air.
Hick's knife FLIES across the room, PINNING the bullet to the wall. A thin trickle of gun powder leaks from its casing, spilling to the floor. The kid's fast.
How you with a gun?
Better than I am with a knife. Priest considers this.
I'll be there. Nothing more needing to be said, Hicks turns to walk out, stops at the door.
What's with all the bullets anyway? I thought Priests don't use firearms.
We don't.
Our Father who art in Heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy Kingdom come Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven... As he continues THE CAMERA slowly moves OUT THE WINDOW and into the night, moving across HALBRIDGE.
Forgive us our trespasses as we forgive those that trespass against us and lead us not into temptation but deliver us from evil. We see the TOWNSPEOPLE: lock their doors, bolting the shutters, tucking their children in safely for the night.
For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory, forever and ever. Amen. And now the camera stops on a LARGE SHADOWY FIGURE perched on a nearby roofline.
You never talked much about the war but I know you saw things. Bad things.
Yes.
What'd you do...to make yourself unsee `em? To make it stop playing in your head?
I prayed.
Did it help? Priest doesn't answer, the question hanging overhead, a dark cloud.
I never used to be much on faith. You
Didn't mean to be late -- My deputies are a little green about keepin' the peace all by their lonesome. Needed a pep talk.
That's just his way. Don't pay it no mind.
A. THUNDERING past Strange ROCK FORMATIONS, bizarre shadows cast across the plains. B. A group of WANDERING MONKS, holy men carrying offerings to the desert, bow as they race by. C.- We.see a PHOTO OF LUCY now stuck to Hicks' windscreen.
The Nightshade Reservation.. Ain't nothin' but red-outs and rejects. They're a fallen tribe.
Either way. We have two hours to get in and out.
What happens in two hours?
Sundown. Hicks looks up at the sky. The sun tilting towards the horizon.
This is how most of the reservations are these days. We see faces peering out from wooden slats. Gaunt,: lifeless eyes. These'are FAMILIARS.
Familiars are illegal.
Nobody really enforces it. most come from the fringes. Drifters. They're creepy as all hell -- but harmless. They turn off their bikes and dismout. Hicks stepping awkwardly between the chickens. A MALE FAMILIAR stands with a butcher knife over a basin. His gaze is slack -- More dead than alive. He picks up a chicken and CHOP1 off goes its head, blood draining into the container. His voice a hissing rasp.
Good afternoon, Sheriff... Father. What brings you to Nightshade?
We're looking for a Vamp Pack. They woulda' came through here a couple nights ago.
Nobody comes through Nightshade. That's the way we like it. Nice and quiet.
Then you won't mind if we have a look around? The Familiar picks up another chicken. Raises the butcher knife.
Not at all. CHOPI The head clatters to the ground.
We're not going to find anything out here...We have to get into the crypts.
Not supposed: to do that without a warrant -- BAMI -- Priest kicks the door in. We hear the Familiar SCREECH as Priest steps inside --
. Got Got You must got Master will be angry! Nicks is grimacing from the stench. He looks at Priest, not happy as he approaches a STONE SARCOPHAGUS. Running his hand over it.
Where's the girl?
PLEEASE please got
No? Maybe your Master will know.
NOt NOI THE MASTER CANNOT BE DISTURBEDI Priest rests his hand against the. atone slab covering.the tomb. It must weigh 200 pounds. He moves the slab. Just a centimeter -- but the Familiar screeches.
Wh re is she?
Your.Master'll be dead. He shoves the slab more, the light rays hanging just outside the edge. And now The Familiar begins to laugh, a horrible rattling sound. Something in his mood has shifted.
No, i don't think so. Hearing a noise, Hicks turns, witnessing a horrible sight moving towards him
Before Hicks can react --
Attacks, BUTCHER BLADE raised. CHOP! the blade buries itself in Hicks' arm!
Lets loose with a mean roundhouse. Plugging him in the chest. in one quick motion he rips the butcher blade from his arm, flinging it at the nearest
The blade lodges in his skull and he drops like a sack. These guys move surprisingly fast -- Hicks is already surrounded. He hears a whistling noise as
Pulls off his COWBOY HAT. Activating a release. With a CLICK! thousands- of needle--like teat ext e d fro the brim. With deadly accuracy, he flings the hat: It FLASHES through the air, DAIS'iWHEELING around a Familiar's neck, pinpricking his skin and finally whirling back to Hicks' band likean obedient pup. A BEAT as the Familiar stands, mouth agape. Then with a wet SNAP his head rolls off his shoulders, THUDDING in the dirt. Hicks falls to the ground, his wound starting to get the best of him. He musters up his strength for another hat attack but before he can --
Leaps in front. Blocking his way.
Not yet. With a HORRIBLE SCREECH the Familiars attack, LAUNCHING at Priest and Hicks. Blades in the air.
Now we can do this easy -- He tosses the BUTCHER KNIFE, it sticks in the ground a hairline from a Familiar's head.
Or we can do this HARD -- Priest flings another BLADE. This one PLANTS in the leg of the Familiar. He HOWLS.
Where is she?
It's our time now. We hear a LOW RUMBLE from inside the crypts. Priest looks at Hicks, a feeling of dark electricity in the air, anticipation.
They get your gun arm?
Why?
You're gonna need it.
BURST from the crypt doorways SCREECHING as they fly into the air. Circling above the reservation like a nest of angry hornets. Disturbed. WHOOSH! One of the figures SWOOPS low, touching to the ground. Giving us our first good look at a vampire; Wet, white skin. Insect clicking claws. Black eyes. Fangs. More creature than human. The vampire cackles, sounds like dried paper, its voice a series of teeth clicking hisses. as it eyes Priest angrily.
What are you doing here,. Priest... haven't you already done enough?
We don't want a fight. We're just looking for the girl. The vampire sneers and as it speaks the following -- one by one, the OTHERS drop from the sky, flanking him. They're scraggly, a little undernourished.
Look at us -- Living in ruin, forced to feed off the blood of animals. We once scoured 'this land. We were warriors...we were Gods!
You were murderers.
We were what nature made us.  I recommend you leave immediately...You are not welcome here.
We're not going anywhere until you tell us where she is.
Then you aren't going anywhere,. If there was a tumbleweed in the vicinity this is when it would blow by. A tense BEAT then. . .Priest pulls out a BLACK BOOK.
,,Yea though r walk through the Valley Of The Shadow Of Death x will fear no Evil -- " The vampires laugh. Fangs glinting.
--'Your words mean nothing to us, Priest. And now we see the book's actually hollow on the inside, filled with dozens of .little STAR-METAL CROSSES.
CUT through the air, heading straight for the BLACK FIGURE. S t SOUEAL.S as the metals; it like hot goals through 1 err tC erina it apart, the pieces raining' down around Hicks, crashing to the ground. And then all hell breaks loose. The Nightshade Vampires hiss. Bearing their fangs like cobras and taking to the air with a SHRIEK. Attacking. Frightened beyond shit-all-belief -- Hicks FIRES wildly, chasing the creatures with his gunfire. His bullets whistling harmlessly through the air. WHOOSH! A vampire swoops towards him, fangs bared, claws ready to rip.
He turns to Hicks.
And with that he's gone, rolling across the ground like a boulder and LEAPING at TWO DARTING VAMPIRES.
Dazed, watches as the vampire's body erupts with death spasms, arms and legs kicking the air in a violent frenzy until finally all life drains away.
 Jesus. Another VAMPIRE careens towards him. Coming in low, crawling across the ground on all fours. Fangs dripping. Hicks FIRES off a mess of bullets, peppering the creature as it flails backwards screeching. He snaps out the empty shells, reloading almost supernaturally fast, firing off a shot that SPLITS the Vampire's throat. He twirls the gun, flipping it into his holster. This leaves only
Should we go after him?
No need. He'll the at first light. Priest goes to the Familiars still lying on the ground. They're sobbing, having lost everything in the world that mattered. Completely wrecked. He grabs one by the scruff of the neck.
No more masters. Just you and me. He raises a knife, pressing it to the Familiar's skin.
 -- The metal beast! She's in the metal beast!
Make 'sense.
Suddenly RIP across Priest's back! It's the Lead Vampire, back for more. Claws digging into flesh. Priest wrenches around and the two go at it. A fierce, feral battle. The Vampire's fangs chattering inches from his neck. Their bodies lock in a horrible struggle, rolling across the Familiars. The Vampire's claws CHURNING into their bodies, killing them instantly.
Throws Priest into a crypt, SMASHING him through the wall, flying in after him. We hear the sounds of a BATTLE ROYALE from inside. WHUMPI WHUMPI WHUMP! The walls buckle outward, sounds like the fury of all hell being unleashed. Then, suddenly, and'more disturbingly...,s  g. Hicks takes a step towards the crypt. Gun leveled. But --
Emerges through the hole, exhausted, the LEAD VAMPIRE'S HEAD in his hand dangling by its hair. He tosses the head and it rolls to Hicks' feet, fangs flashing up at him. Hicks stares at the ghastly visage. Unnerved.
The two are silent, grimly going about their task -- It's obvious the skirmish has affected Hicks. Priest notices.
How's your arm?
Lucky I guess. The blade didn't go that deep.  Don't know what got into those Familiars to attack like that. They're usually harmless. Priest finds a KNIPE clutched in a dead Familiar's hand, tucks it in his waistband.
Usually. A BEAT as they listen to the popping of the fire. A tension hanging between them. Then -
You did this on purpose, didn't you? You knew we wouldn't. be out before sundown. You wanted this to happen.
You don't have the stomach for it --head back to Haibridge right now. Hicks glares at Priest.
The stomach I got. I was in the Rangers two years. Even fought in the Boondock Uprising...I saw some crazy things.
Killing a vampire isn't like killing a man. They come at'you like an animal. Tooth for tooth.
Claw for claw -- Blood, skin, bones. 6 They take all of it.
it comes easy to you... don't it?
What?
Killin'.
it just comes. Easy's got nothing to do with it. He pokes at the fire, it CRACKLES, feeding off the bodies. Something about the battle's opened him up. His guard's down.
I take no pleasure in it. Killing. I know I've done more than my share -- Whatever they do to me I have it coming.
Give me your gun.
What?
Give me your gun.
Why? You gonna shoot me now? Priest's stare is piercing. A pause then Hicks pulls his six shooter, handing it to him. Priest checks the chambers, giving it a quick spin.
Don't anticipate the trajectory of your target. Know it. He stomps his foot into the fire, launching a GLOWING COAL OF ASH into the air. Priest quickly raises the gun and FIRES, the ash explodes, raining fiery red sparks.
You're teaching me to shoot?
I'm teaching you to kill vampires. No more wild shots --
My ass I In case you didn't notice I was pretty damn good out there! And I sure as hell didn't see you doin' much when I had that blade buried in my arm.
There's always-two points. A and B. Know the points and you'll know your target.
Ain't nothin' but a bunch of bullshit.
I see ten crypts ...but only eight vampires. We find the missing, we'll find-Lucy.' What's the next nearest town?
Jericho. It's clear across the Plains. Gonna be a rough ride.
Then you better get a good night's sleep. This bunch was easy, their bloodlines watered down by man.
A man came on board at the last stop. Says he has something for you. The Figure nods. We-FOLLOW as he continues to the back of --- the car, sliding open the door
I can SMELL the blood racing through your veins... Smells like dinner. The salesman starts to shake.
A Priest?
Lying on the floor, her face streaked with tears. Vestiges of the girl we met earlier already lost.
I won't tell anyone if you let me out...I promise.
You're in here for your own protection...If I let you out of this car you'll be torn apart a piece at a time. He walks to her, face still hidden in shadow. She starts to cry, pulling back to the wall. Angry.
My uncle's a Priestl one of the best. Hooll corns after youl The Figure laughs. Bending down to her level --
I'm absolutely counting on it. And now we get our first look at her captor. A cross tattoo h s adows his face. The mark of the Priest.
They sit parked on a bluff, the emptiness making Hick's eyes ache. A more desolate view couldn't be found in all of hell.
Walkin' Pete talked about this place -- said it. used to be really somethin'. Everythin' growin' green as a goddamn dollar bill. . 'Course we had to go and screw it up by poisonin' everythin' -- nothin' pretty survives this world ...nothin' decent anyways.
How's your arm?
 Sore. Cut's still open. As Hicks hands the canteen back, Priest suddenly grabs his arm it's completely healed. Not even a scar.
You're a halfbreed. A BEAT as Hicks looks to the ground, when he speaks, it's in a voice just below his breath.
My grandmother... she was raped. Nobody knows -- It's recessive in my family. No bloodthirst. No light sensitivity. I'm not proud... but it's a part of me. Ain't nothin' I can do.  I woulda told you...just didn't want you treatin' me no different. It hangs there. the'silence stretching like a rope,then Priest REVS his cycle; a flurry ofdust kicking up as he speeds away. HOLD ON HICKS -- Eyes stinging, he watches Priest. Finally he starts his bike, following.
Gotta be a desert rat. They park their bikes about twenty feet from the rickety structure, Hicks stepping off his bike and approaching. Carefully.
Let me do the talkin'. The sun has a way of cookin' these people's brains so they ain't quite right - BANG! A rifle shot kicks up dust at Hicks' feet.
Hold it right there, mistert Hicks freezes. A BEAT as. the front of the shack shows only a doorway hidden in shadow...thenan OLD MAN emerges, Rifle in hand. He COCKS it, making a bead for Hick's head.
Take another step and you'll be meetin' the Lord directly.
Easy now old timer. I'm a sheriff. The old man snorts, spitting a thick stream of tobacco,. it sizzles when it hits the dust.
Ain't no law out here but my own. Calm and cool, Priest shifts in his seat, drawing his gaze.
Praise The Lord. Total attitude adjustment. He lowers the Rifle and smiles -- revealing a gap tooth smile wide enough to drive a herd of cattle through.
Cleaned the place up a bit. Been years since I had any kind of company 'sides jackrabbits but I knew you was comity' -- Dreams don't lie.' Ignoring Hicks, the old man pours BLACK TEA into a rusty can, handing it to Priest.
Most people don't remember what you folk done -- Don' t WANT to remember. But I do. I know what you can do.  You are God's mighty sword fused into flesh. One of the chosen.. Touched by His very ha nd so peace could finally come to this cur sed land. Hicks snorts.
Sounds like a bunch of religious mumbo jumbo to me. The old man stares fixedly at Priest.
Now you tell the Clergy this here is an authentic miracle, I want it registered. It's mine.
Miracle?
The Angels. Never seen so many loot souls, breaks my heart just to think of it. This ain't no place for nothin' divine. The man's fevered belief unsettles Priest, he's unsure how to respond.
You saw angels?
Sure as chit.
How many?
Don't know, too many to count. Hundreds. Thousands. Some nights the sky was so thick you couldn't see the stars. His eyes suddenly light up, remembering something. i OLD MAN Here! Look at this -- He goes to a shelf, it's been turned into a MAKESHIFT SHRINE -- rw=ging through a jumbled collection of crucifixes, yellowed photographs, collected junk. He pulls out a GLASS JAR containing SOMETHING MISSHAPEN floating in murky water, the old man proudly showing it to Priest and Hicks.
What is it?
It's their spoor! They'd be flyin' above and this stuff would drop from the sky like manna.
That's angel shit?
Scooped it up myself.  You wanna hold it? Hicks backs away, shaking his head.
Suit yourself. Priest still doesn't know what to make of the man but he senses something to be gained. He tries changing the subject.
These angels...di.d you ever see them during the day?
No, I reckon'. that's when they'd go back home for some shut eye -- Gettin' the world ready for the rapture takes a lot of work. Praise God.
Home?
The castle - .:,He:points out the window, far away, atop a craggy peak sits the -remains of a CASTLE --
Beautiful place. Wonder of the world. I used to watch `em every night, takin' to the sky in all of God's glory,
Wait! I want you to have somethin' before you go He presses a HOMEMADE CROSS into Priest's hand. It's a real beauty, flecked with colored stones. A lot of love and care went into this one.
Remember, a man comes into this world with one thing. His soul. He's lucky if he's still got it when he leaves. Priest pockets the cross, REVVING his cycle and with a final nod -- he and Hicks speed into the wasteland. The old man watches, his cracked face squinting as the sun flashes off the metal of the machines.
Thank you. The Familiar turns to leave. WHAPI Lucy SLAMS the tray over his head and he collapses to the floor. She makes a run for it. But the Familiar manages to grab her ankle.knocking her down, she kicks at him as he holds fast, hissing. Two more FAMILIARS run in and grab her arms, wrestling her to the floor. She struggles furiously but it's no use, she screams as we CUT TO:
Vampires sometimes use abandoned structures as a perch.  Watch for booby traps. And with that he enters the--
Why we listen' to that crackpot? Crazy fucker's so blinded by faith he's batahit. That's called a zealot in my. book.
This is bullshit. Lucy's been gone five days'-- every stupid minute we waste here is a minute more she gets farther-away. Priest turns and sees a STONE STAIRCASE, uneven steps leading. downwards...too dark to tell where though.
Stay here. If anything comes up the steps that isn't me -- Shoot it. Before Hicks can reply,.Priest heads down the stairs, darkness swallowing him with every step.
Great.
Actually more a cave. Miles and miles. Twisting, jagged and moist. Endless corners, weaving into a dark and hideous maze. Priest heads into it
Priest moves through the darkness, footsteps not even a whisper, heading deeper and deeper into the labyrinth as
A SHADOW brushes past the light, moving so fast it barely registers. Could just be a trick of the eye. Or not. Priest moves towards it.
1L0Z.J.PIf .! i Primitive but very creepy. We linger on the image, the terror of the people, the viciousness of the creature. Truly horrific.
Priest walks into an ANIMAL PEN of sorts, a hay-like substance covering the floor, the smell of something bestial. He,covers his nose, looking around, something in the corner catching his eye ---
splayed across the ground like rag dolls. He crouches to take a closer look...
SOMETHING. barrels into him with superhuman force! Acting on instinct, Priest FOLDS AND ROLLS. Kicking the thing off him and PUSHING off the wall for a blistering recovery. Whatever it is, it's fast. Quickly countering for every move he gives, neither able to get the upper hand. Too dark to make out what it is. Priest locks his arms around the shape's arms, SLAb24=G it against the wall, illuminating it under the torch light.
How did you find me? Priest doesn't reply. She narrows her eyes, suspicious.
Did the Clergy send you?
No.
I've been busy. Off Priest's reaction we CUT TO:
Shit. He wipes the blood on his pants, not noticing as a A LARGE SHAPE looms in the archway behind him...
If you didn't come for me...why are you here?
I should be asking you the same question.
There's another one around here somewhere.
Where?
I don't know...but it's not like the others. They're interrupted by the sound of GUNFIRE echoing off the tunnel walls. Priest turns.
Hicks. He starts down the tunnel. The Priestess quickly following.
It's too big to fit down here. That's why you're still alive.
What the hell is that thing?I
I'm not stupid. Vampires don't look like that.
They used to. The Priestess steps out from behind Priest. Startling Hicks.
Who the hell are you?! (7, She doesn't even bother to respond,.just shooting a look as the two warriors bound
A fearsome creature -- much more terrifying than the Nightshade variety. Bigger, more ferocious. The ancient cousin to the more modern vampire. The beast opens its mouth and lets loose with a SCREAM, its breath vile.
Split up. The Priestess LEAPING to the stone wall and climbing up the rock. Priest goes the opposite way, ROLLING across the floor, keeping low.
With a screech, goes for the Priestess. Crawling up the wall, hunched like a rat, talons ferociously . digging, into: rock. Coordinating an attack wordlessly, the Priests make their move:
Lets go of the wall, PLUMMETING straight towards the vampire, the creature FLASHING its fangs in anticipation.
Leaps from below, darting up the rock, taking advantage of the distraction, landing on the creature's back and wrapping his arms around its neck. Going for the deathlock. With a SHRIEK the creature WHIPS its head with crack force sending Priest flying. The Priestess, still in mid-drop, CATCHES him and they both hit the ground with their feet.
Should we lead it into open air? More room to. maneuver.
Better to keep it contained. The vampire's lathered into an animal frenzy now, wailing and scuttling around the circular wall in crazy patterns. Suddenly -- with a stone shattering BOOM! it BURSTS through the hole, FLYING out into the night.
Or not. They race outside.
Darts behind a boulder just in time. The creature's talons SCRAPING at the rock before it soars back to the sky, He pulls out his bible, grabbing and tossing a handful of --
CUTTING through the air, sparkling in the moonlight, beautiful. BUT They BOUNCE harmlessly off the creature's wings, knifing back to the ground, imbedding deep in the stone, Priest having to nimbly: dodge his own weaponry. THE CREATURE HOWLS! Blazing straight for him. Undaunted. Priest looks at the Priestess and folds his hands into the prayer position, leveling his breath, pulse slowing as the screaming beast bares down like a freight train!
Quickly scoops up TWO LARGE ROCKS -- HURTLING them towards the vampire. HER EYES LOCK WITH PRIEST'S as she too folds her hand, into the prayer position.
Not bad. Suddenly the CREATURE'S BODY erupts into ablistering death spasm! Talons clacking like STRAIGHT RAZORS, flailing dangerously close to the two of them.
A single bullet. pierces its heart and the body collapses with a THUD. Once and for all -- dead. ANGLE ON HICKS in the archway, smoke coming off his gun. He looks at the Priests.
Point A...meet point fuckin' B. He smiles, twirling his six shooters back into their holsters.
He raises his hand, comparing it to the beast's talon. Shakes his head.
This was a Pureblood.
we both know that's impossible -- They haven't existed for a millennium.
.I don't know. A BEAT filled with awkward silence -- when the Priestess kt speaks it comes as a relief for both. An unloosening of things long held tight.
Sector Seven was the only place I could find work. Waste Management.
I heard that one too.
A week ago, a family camping out on the Perimeter approached me --.Told me vampires were terrorizing their village and that the government wouldn't do anything about it.
Did you go to The Clergy?
They wouldn't see me,
By the time I got to the village it was completely razed. Nothing left. Women. Children. All dead ...they didn't even bother to feed.
Could be. The Priestess glances towards Hicks.
Does the lawman know what you'll do if you find her?
He knows.
He'll try to stop you.
He won't be able to. She pauses a moment, regarding him.
You know, some nights I still dream we're back on the frontlines ... I wake up, I'm sweating... my muscles all clenched like I'm ready for something -- But I don't know what.
Me too.
Nights like that ...I don't go back to sleep.
..Like what?
You. Priest stares at her, not sure what to say. Lucky for him, the moment gets interrupted by --
 - Hey.you guys better get a look at thisl The warriors lock eyes, knowing something's been started -- but.unsure of what. They head down the stone steps.
it must be a birthmark of some kind.
That ain't no birthmark -- it's a brand. The Priestess studies the mark, something about it making her skin crawl. Maybe because it's in'theshape of a top hat.
There's something else you need to see...
I found this just before I was attacked -
It's a tomb. Big enough for an army.
Guess they're not as endangered as everyone thought.
Only one way to find out...
Are Priests allowed to, you know...have relations?
We take a vow of celibacy at inception. Hicks can't be sure -- did she just look at Priest when she said that?
Look...I was uh, wondering --. how did he do that little stunt back there?
All Priests can do it.
Including you? She nods.
So what's the trick?
No trick. You just have to remember.
Remember... what?
Time is relative.
Not like the cave, this is more earthen. Like the inside of a wasp nest, curved walls made of dirt and spit, Priest covering his nose and mouth as he's hit with a massive stench.
You said the next nearest town was Jericho.
Yeah.
Then we better go see.
. See what?
-- What they left of it. PUSH IN ON HICKS -- knots of rope tightening in his stomach... only now realizing how truly black the path before him will be.
CLACK past at a furious speed, inches from his head! The noise is deafening..
Hey... The Familiar turns -- Lucy's perched inside one of the JOISTS lining the underside of the train. KRACKI- She lets loose with a well-placed KICK, snapping his head back so he catches on the track. With ascream, he's quickly SUCKED out the train, pulverized on the track. Lucy's covers her mouth, her nails an ugly bloody mass. She's come this far, time to go the rest. She manages to carefully crawl from joist to joist, moving along the underside of the train, her body just centimeters from the passing track.
Catching herself just in time. Her eyelids practically brushing the wood. Taking a deep breath, she manages to hoist herself through the rest of the way finally making it to the CABOOSE. She pulls herself up onto the back of the car. Now what? The train is blazing past the wasteland at an incredible speed. Only one thing to do. She makes the sign of the cross, closes her eyes and JUMPS
The plain's a shifting veil of sand, parting to reveal a vista of dunes, wind shipping across them.
We separate. Go through each building, see what we find.
I'll start with the sheriff.
Be careful. Just because it's daylight doesn't mean it's safe. Hicks nods, tightening the twin BANDOLEERS across his chest.
'Damn. He shakes his head, heading towards the holding area as --
There ain't nobody left. Nobody.
Where's Priest?
On the ground KNEELING. Head down, engaging in some kind of prayer. THE CAMERA FOLLOWS as they slowly approach, wondering what the hell is going on. As they get closer they see the full
Before Priest are THREE LARGE WOODEN CROSSES, A NAKED BODY ON EACH, crucified. Because of the swirling sand it's hard to make out their faces but it's obvious the poor souls are already dead. Immediately the Priestess drops beside Priest, joining him -- And it is only now that we get a good look at the crucifieds'
They're Priests.
We see the cheroot on the ground. Spent. The only evidence that anyone or anything was ever out here at all.
Don't make no sense. What were they doin' out here?
The same thing as us.
Who? The Priests just stare into the fire, not having any idea.
I imagine you'll have to go back to the Cities, inform the Clergy. A sudden silence.
We're not going back.
We'll burn for this.
 We already are. Something in the flames catches the Priestess's eye, in the charred remains of one of the corpses -- SOMETHING'S GLOWING. She wraps her arm, plunging her hand through the bones, pulling out the object. Quickly, she tosses it into a'barrel of water. it hisses, steam rising as it cools. Priest reaches into the barrel, his hand emerging with a
It's a railroad spike. My pop used to work boxcars before they shut down -- Why the hell would anyone wanna swallow that? A beat as Priest puts it together.
He wanted us to find it. It's a clue.
Where's the closest track?
The Dunkirk Line. It starts all the way in the backcountry, bought the ore from the deep mines. There were about five stops along the route. I think. He draws several Xs along the line. His hand coming to a stop on a particular forboding PATCH OF MOUNTAINS.
Looks like Jericho was, the last town it glances before'. heading around the Linwood Mountains...Then it goes to the last stop.
Where? He draws one final X at the end of the line. Looks up.
The Cities. So there it is. The Priestess narrows her eyes.
They must have been picking up different factions along the way. Moving during the day, feeding at night.
But headin' to the Cities is suicide. The sun will kill `em -- there's nowhere to hide. Priest gazes at the map, deeply troubled.
They won't have to. And with the SHRIEK of the train whistle we CUT TO:
Overtakes the train. Snaking along the rail at an incredible speed, leaving the train in its tracks  as it blisters across the Wasteland through craggy mountains and finally ending up in
And it is only now that we see exactly what Priest means. THICK CLOUD OF INDUSTRIAL SMOKE covers the metropolis. There is no sun.
A BLACK COWBOY HAT coolly tilted down, exposing .a cheroot clutched between thin lips. A trail of smoke lazily floats upwards.
A fine catch yes? (the voice is oily, a dark
She'd be dead if not for me...swallowed by the wasteland. We see Lucy on the floor at the Figure's feet, his pale hand runs calmly through her hair. From the shadows, Black Hat steps forward, looking down at Lucy. She struggles but the hand tightens its grip.
What do you want for her? And now her captor lifts his hat -- revealing paper-thin skin, eyes like black coal. This is RUNE, a bounty hunter.
You know what r want. Black Hat's eyes flick upwards, glinting in the. candlelight.
Don't. go too far, Rune.
He comes for her still.
Of course he does.
Let me have him.
No. Rune smiles,'revealing an impressive set of vampire fangs.
I'm sure she'll fetch a nice price out In the zone -- they don't care what condition their meat's in...as long as it's easy to chew.
Don't get involved in this.
I was involved long before you showed up.
My how things have changed. Ever so slightly, the metal finger SQUEEZES Lucy's throat, choking her.
I never cared about your war. Never got Involved. Us halfbreeds. We were exiles -- rejected by both humans and vampires. All we wanted was a quiet place. But he wiped out my whole tribe.
Fine. He's Yours. As if on command, the finger retreats back into the jacket, Lucy COLLAPSING to the floor coughing and choking.
And -- she's yours. He laughs, sounds like a death rattle, dropping the cigar to the floor, spurs chiming as he walks out the car door, long dark coat fluttering behind him, disappearing into the night.
Annoyed, picks up the still burning cigar, squeezing it in his hand. He turns to Lucy.
And as for you uy dear...You're more trouble than I anticipated. Must be your uncle's blood in you.
Hicks and the two Priests ride past tumbleweed drifts, the surrounding desertscape golden in the fading light. Ahead a forboding series of CRAGGY MOUNTAINS, awaits, a WINDING TRAIL criss-crossing through the peaks. They stop, their machines idling next to each other, taking stock of the huge task _beore' them.
Beggar's Pass...it ain't gonna be easy. As if on cue the last rays of the sun wink out behind the mountain.
If we push it hard we'll gain two days on 'em. Should be enough to get us a jump.
We'need more than a jump. We need a miracle.
That's the funny thing about time -- He dips his hand in the water and raises it, letting the liquid leak from between his fingers.
It's always runin' right through my fingers.
You should try harder, sheriff. She cups her hand in the water, bringing it to her lips for a drink. Hicks smiles, leaning forward, something on his mind.
You ever regret it? Bein' a Priest?
No.
What about a husband, children...A family?
I've had a family -- just not the kind you're familiar with.
What? You mean Mr. Laffs over there?
He's not so bad once you get to know him. A beat, Hick's expression becoming serious.
He's going to kill her, isn't he? If. she's turned.
Yes.
There's things that can be done. She doesn't have to die.
She's his bloodline... and he's a Priest. It's the only way. Hicks tosses the rest of his food into the fire, troubled, but he knows there's no point in discussing it any further... for now.
And how many of you Priests are left now? A long moment before she speaks.
Two. Hicks doesn't know what to Say-,,
.I'm sorry.,
Yes. She nods, though in affirmation of what Hicks's isn't sure. He watches her as she stares'into the fire. We FADE TO BLACK:
They know we're here. From under the earth A HAND SHOOTS UP, grabbing onto a Priest's leg, pulling him down. Suddenly DOZENS OF VAMPIRES emerge, seemingly birthed from the soil. The warriors fight valiantly. Fiercely. But it's too much. Most are quickly cut down.
Retreat!
Battles like a tiger, grappling with TWo VAMPIRES, their claws at his throat, fangs inches from his face. A couple of quick moves and - before you realize how - the vanires lay dead. He quickly joins the surviving Priests as they run through the hive, a dizzying maze of MUDDY TUNNELS AND TRENCHES.
Guess not. From within the hive comes a MIGHTY SHRIEK -- and now Fearsome starts to run, trying to catch the others as they scramble for daylight. The exit just in sight. At the last second -- He's pulled back by a clutch of SCREECHING HUNGRY CLAWS. The hat still gripped tightly in his hand as he's dragged away. our two Priests reach for him but it's too late ...He disappears into the darkness as we CUT BACK TO:
Why would the Clergy forbid us from seeing each other?
Maybe they were scared of what we could do.
Or what we would do.
With or without the Clergy...we're still Priests. And we're the only ones who can stop that train.
If we survive this we need to expose them for what they are.
You scared to die?_
No.
I believed in Heaven my whole life. Believed everything we were taught -- And now...when it's finally my time...no more faith. They took it away from me. Priest gazes at her, trying his best to be comforting.
Whatever happens. .. Wherever it is we go. We'll go together. At that.exact moment something inside Priest shifts just a little bit, a door opens -- never to be shut again.
What in greater than God but more evil than the Devil? The poor have it, the rich need it -- and if you eat it...you'lldie.
What?
It's a riddle. The Priestess thinks about it.
Nothing. That's the answer.
What you said before...about those nights when you were dreaming of me --
The good nights.
Yes. The good nights. Do you think maybe tonight...
Could be one of those nights? She smiles. And then Priest does the most amazing thing. . .he smiles back. Things happen fast -- He finds himself planting his mouth on hers... the years of conditioning, all the ritual and tradition falling away in a flash. And it is here, together in this place, where they feel like they finally truly belong. The last two.
I- ee itl Hicks points, reaching the top of the mountain.
I know you're there. A slight sound, the mist whipping into a pool as if something just moved through it. Priest quickly turns but there's nothing there.
Show yourself. A BEAT as he stands in the ether, waiting. Then -- WHOOSH! Qurye -M onen. ieadjna straight-for pi=.
Just in time -- he DIVES, the claw BITING into a rock behind him, the chain quickly snapping back, disappearing into the fog.
 I've waited a long time for this Priest.
This isn't the time to settle old scores, Rune.
I disagree... This is the perfer, time. WOOSH! Like lightning, the claw LASHES out, appearing from. nowhere. Priest JUMPS and it CHOMPS into the ground where he was standing. He lands on top of the chain, backflipping as it retracts back. Gearing up for another attack. RUNE You've lost a step Priest...I never came this close before.
I'm older now. We can almost bear Rune smile.
Not me. And now THE CHAIN comes from a different direction, WRAPPING around Priest like a snake, the metal cutting into his body, snapping a ribt Yelling, Priest GRABS the chain, PULLING with everything he's got. Rune flies from the mist, dragged by Priest, crashing at his feet. The chain SNAPS and Priest BREAKS from the coils, grabbing Rune by the jacket, picking him up. Rune flashes his fangs and scissors his legs across Priest's stomach, the razor sharp roweled SPURS slicing his flesh, tearing the muscle, Priest SCREAMS, a hot rush of, blood staining the desert floor. Rune leaps away, landing ontop a boulder.
You can't outrun the past, Priest... the things you did.
It was a war, Rune.
It still is He launches at Priest, duster fluttering like wings. The two grapple, Rune's fangs brushing Priest's neck. It's a savage battle, Priest's muscles and laser-like focus the only thing keeping him alive as Rune flies back across the canyon, landing against the rock wall like.a spider. Hunched, ready to strike BUT --
Appears from within the mist, already in mid-leap, she lands beside Priest. The two together, a formidable presence. But Rune's a tough customer, he readies himself for another attack. ough h2 mist a single CLICKING sound. Rune looks over, sees --
Six-shooter pointed right at him.
Hicks fires a single shot, the echo ringing through the canyon.
Drops from the fog, hitting the ground with a thud. Dead. And now Hicks turns -- points his revolver at Priest. Catching both he and the Priestess by surprise.
Tell me you won't kill her. Priest doesn't reply.
Tell me...or I'll shoot you where you stand.
Finally showing your true colors. A beat. The Priestess looks at Hicks.
What's he talking about?
He's a halfbreed. Hicks cocks the gun.
Don't turn this into somethin' it's not.
You've been itching to do this since Nightshade.
She's your kin, goddamit!
if she's turned...she's nobody's kin.
Things can be done. Things to lessen the thirst. She can have a normal life, she doesn't have to die. Priest nods grimly.
It's our way.
And what is that? Some special Priest code of honor? You don't get it. Your "way' -- It's over!
Shoot me and it won't matter if you find Lucy. You won't stop that train -- and you won't save her. The Priestess steps between them, looks at Hicks.
He's right. We need to be together on this... it's the only shot we have. Hicks thinks about it, knows she's right. A tense beat then
This ain't done. He lowers his gun and walks away. The two warriors stand together, the Priestess gazing at Priest...hedoesn't return it. Without a word, he heads back to his cycle. She doesn't see as his hand touches his stomach. It comes up red.
He GUNS the throttle and his bike BLAZES forward, wheels thundering across the earth, the ROAR of engines filling our head becoming --
wheels kicking up sheets of sand and grit, spattering their faces. The train dead in their sites.
SIX BLACK MOTORCYCLES  fly out from within the car! Vampires covered in rider leather, protected from the sun, heads obscured by BLAST HELMETS. Priest turns to the other two.
Make sure you get on that train,
is thrown! His beloved bike FLIPPING across the desert in wild arcs. He hits the earth with a painful skid, using the momentum to roll back onto his feet. He checks his stomach, the wound's of enina t,}g xnorA, staining his shirt bright red. No time for first aid as he turns just in time to see
Throwing a STEEL CHAIN to the other, pulling the line taut, ready to take him out. Approaching fast.
Snaps the chain above his head, bullwhip style, LASHING out. The sound of metal shredding as it tangles in Rider #1's handlebars, the bike SWEEPING into the other, CRASHING in a tangled mess. With a SNARL the fallen riders LAUNCH at Priest. These vampires are different than the Nightshade tribe. Stronger, quicker. Squat bodies of clenched muscles and fangs.
Rips the BLAST HELMETS off his two attackers. With a SCREECH, their faces burn, bodies instantly SLACKENING in the harsh sun. Priest CRUNCHES a vampire in the ribs, knocking the creature off his bike. In a flash, he FLINGS.a helmet into the housing of the last cycle, the bike nosedives, sending the rider across the desert. Eyes brimming with renewed fury, Priest picks up the cycle, VROOOOMI! GUNNING the throttle, mod. ROCKETING towards the train...
 You ready? Hicks nods, maneuvering to the side of his bike and jumping to the Priestess's, his cycle crashing into the dirt as he LEAPS onto the back of the train.
I'm going for the engine. Find Lucy.  Before he does. Hicks nods, knowing this'll probably be the last time he sees her. And with that, she throttles forward, disappearing. Alone, Hicks takes a deep breath, looks at --
My.tuxn now, Priest. BAMI He kicks the door in
A long moment...and then the steady breathing begins again. Whew. Hicks continues through the cabin, finally making it to the door as --
Seemingly from out of nowhere, motors up to the train car riding the vampire cycle. He grabs onto a gun barrel and SWINGS into an arc, lifting himself off the bike and -
IT'S BLACK HAT. He looks down at Priest, bowing with a slight flourish.
"And the third day He shall rise again. Priest can't believe it, seeing his long dead comrade, his face etched with shock, all he can do is ask --
.How? Black Hat smiles, baring hi fangs.
Oh ye of little faith. The understanding hits Priest immediately, crashing over him like a wave.
.They turned you.
No, Priest...I turned them. He smiles wider as we CROSSCUT TO:
Lost souls abandoned by divinity. No belief, no voice to guide them through the wilderness. Sound familiar? Priest doesn't reply, warily eyeing him.
Lack of faith. That's what I found in my new brethren And so it was I discovered my true calling -- To teach. To lead.
By murdering innocents?
By drawing a once great race back to their"nature. By helping them discover' the mastery within themselves.
By putting them in touch with a higher power.
who?
Me. Something in the distance catches Priest's eye, a BLACK SPEC on the horizon -- It's The Cities. His jaw tightens, he knows there isn't much time.
So this is how you go about it? One by one killing every last remaining Priest?
It was the only way. The Cities are defenseless now...no one left to stop us from entering our Eden. But I was kind -- I gave every last one the choice I never had.
it's better to be with your enemies than to be alone, Priest. Humanity had its chance.
Yours.
They taught us God created man in His image. . .but they lied. Man created God in a image -- And so, like man, God is weak. Corrupt. Merciless. He wipes away a streak of blood from his cheek.
Who do you fight for, Priest? The Order's collapsed. The Church nothing but a line of decrepit, ruined old men. Charlatans.
I don't believe you.
Your faith has failed you Priest.
With ferocious instinct, he launches forward, feet digging into the metal. The two bodies COLLIDE w th Mic impact. Rolling across the roof, bodies twisting to the edge before FLIPPING onto the next car. The warriors rise, locked in a furious coil.as WHOOSHI train car after train car passes beneath them. Each leaping at j ust the right moment to land onto the next. But Priest is,outmatched. As they hit the final car, Priest flies across the roof catching the edge with his hand just before he goes over, his body dangling over the side. Exhausted and bloodied.
Your problem is you keep looking to God for-your power -- But I know the real truth.
But you know that now.
Pump up and down furiously, moving so fast they blur, turning the-giant DRIVE WHEELS that power the locomotive. ANGRY BLASTS OF STEAM vent whi te hot from between the wheels, just missing the Priestess. She reaches into her pack and lugs out a CROWBAR, pulling up to the beast and managing to stick it between the pistons hoping to jam up the works. The machine chews it up like candy.
Shit. With a WAIL, the vampires quickly scramble from their coffins, sharp talons scratching at the wood, snapping the planks. Desperate, he wrenches open the door, darting into --
The WILD-EYED FAMILIAR charges, attacking from behind, having unlocked the chain and opened the door. He SCREAMS, sinking a KNIFE in Hicks' side! Hicks spins, slamming his attacker in the nose with a palm heel strike, knocking the Familiar out instantly. Hicks pulls the knife out, blood flowering across his shirt as the vampires continue to PUMMEL the door behind, him. He trips over the chain and staggers into --
'Dam. He site on the floor, breathing hard, knowing this is as far as he goes. Gradually another sound becomes audible. Hicks listens, nervous. He holds his breath straining to hear. It's someone else's BREATHING.
Lucy? it is. That's when he sees something. Glinting in the darkness, just below her lip. Something sharp.
Lucy, my name is Sheriff Hicks...I'm here to take you home. No response. She seems almost catatonic. He reaches into his pocket, pulling out her photograph, showing it to her.
I'm here with your uncle. That gets her attention, she looks at Hicks -- And she looks scared.
The car door outside finally starts to give freely, metal breaking open. The sound of SQUEALING vampires. Hicks runs to.the car door, in one quick motion, SCOOPING up the chain and WRAPPING it around the handle, TYING IT TIGHT just as --
Reaches through the opening, long bony fingers swiping at Hicks like switchblades as he falls backwards, pain shooting up his body. ANOTHER ARM breaks through the small window, clawing at the air, the door BANGING REPEATEDLY against the chain. Hicks places himself between Lucy and the door, not noticing as she eyes the blood soaking through his shirt.
Stay behind me. I'll hold `em off as long as I can BLAMI BL.AM! Hicks FIRES, bullets peppering the creatures as they HOWL -- but they keep at it, the thick chain stretched tight, ready to snap.
Manages to scramble through, it charges at Hicks, fangs glistening. BAMI With a twitch, it collapses in a heap, a well placed bullet between the eyes.
He turns to look back at Lucy. But she's gone.
Lucy? WHAM! A WOODEN. PLANK slams him over the head, knocking the gun from his hand. Woozy, he spins around to find Lucy standing over him, holding the plank above her head. He scoots back just as WHAM! the plank comes back down again, splintering apart across the floor.
Lucy, wait She doesn't, jabbing at him with the broken plank, he dodges it, barely, but she keeps coming.
Lucy, don't do this! The girl's just too fast. She keeps pushing him backwards until he's dangerously close to the vampire's clawing hands.. Hick's closes his eyes, knowing this is it...
PUNCHES through a BOARDED UP HOLE in the floor (the one through which Lucy escaped before), wood splintering into tiny shards. Hicks takes advantage of the distraction and SLUGS Lucy, knocking her unconscious. He dives for his gun, scooping it up and leveling it at the hole, ready to fire at whatever's coming through...
He sticks his head through the opening, having been drawn by the sound of gunfire. Hicks can't believe it.
 Give her to me! Hurry!
-- They'11.get through the door any second! Give her to mei Screeching, ANOTHER VAMPIRE makes it through the opening, Hicks quickly taking him down in one crack shot. He picks Lucy up, handing her to Priest. Priest disappears with her, Hicks climbing down behind just as -- the chain finally SNAPS and the door BURSTS open with screeching vampires! Hicks BLASTS away but there's too many of them, they keep coming. He drops into the hole --
Jabs its head through the hole, teeth chattering-- but the creature can't go any further, the sunlight already making its skin smoke. On his back, Hicks worms his way down,. following Priest.as they climb up a LADDER attached to the side of the train.
We should jump!
Not until we stop the trains But now Hicks isn't even looking at him, his attention caught up in the horrible sight waiting ahead of them.
Horrified, realizing what she's going to do...and powerless to stop her.
What happens next happens fast: Priest GRABS Hicks, folding his body around both he and Lucy, hands coming together in prayer, feet leaving the train as -- E ERYTH ggas BLACK The sound of a heartbeat.A threshold. A zone of transition. A BRIGHT FLASH -- we see the TRAIN collide with the. Priestess. The massive grill of the engine CRUMPLING AROUND HER as if smashing into a building. She doesn't move. A BRIGHT FLASH -- one by one the train cars SLAM into each other, the cars JUMPING the rails. MMMM gQES BLACK A BRIGHT FLASH -- and now Priest is falling through the air, his body shielding Hicks and Lucy, train care skipping across the earth, careening through the air.
We move through the swirling sand until we find --
He stands, bruised and bloody, staring at the sky. Watching. A dazed Hicks beside him, Lucy in his arms as she comes to. A HORRENDOUS SCREECH fills the air. Led by the Purebloods, HUNDREDS OF VAMPIRES fly out from within the broken cars, taking to the sky in a massive black swarm, tangling together in flowing shapes. Beautiful. Terrifying. Then in one horrible instant -- They TURN as if guided by an unseen hand, flying towards the Cities. Sensing the blood that awaits.
Priest studies the sky and all at once...he knows.
No, they're not.
PUNCHES through the teeming mass. A few rays at first, but then more and more,-cracking through the black tide like shattered glass. Hicks' eyes, widen, witnessing an amazing eight as the vampires' bodies collectively BLACKEN and SHRIVEL the swarm withering... quickly becoming nothing more than husks. Floating black kites. Hicks and Priest stand, surrounded by the epic destruction, fire and smoke casting everything in a surreal haze.
You knew they wouldn't make it. A long time before Priest answers.
She knew. He turns to THE ENGINE -- its grinning teeth grill CAVED IN as if smashed by the very hand of God.
Lies before it. Somehow not a scratch on her...But something's wrong -- something inside her broken, something elemental. She doesn't have much time. Priest kneels beside her, taking her hand. Trying to be strong for her.
Do you want me to?
"You shall wash me and I shall be made whiter than snow. Glory be to the Father and to the Son and to the Holy Spirit... The words are heavy, each harder than the next.
-- As it was in the beginning, is now and ever shall be. World without end."
sees him but chooses to stay with the Priestess, brushing the hair from her face.
I wish we could've had more time.
.Me too. She reaches up, placing her hand on his chest.
Wherever it is we go -- we go together, right? She smiles weakly... but Priest can see she's scared. He gives her one last kiss, cradling her body, sand circling them as she draws her final breath.
When you're finished -- You know where to find me. A tense beat then Priest GUNS the engine. Hicks and Lucy watching as he blazes towards the Cities, the sky above the color of hellfire.
Slowly makes his way down the aisle, bruised and bloodied, his very presence a direct affront to this place. A woman GASPS, somebody faints.
Ecces Agnes Dei, ecces qui tollit peccata mundi.
I'm afraid you're too late, Priest.
Shed their robes, revealing fresh BITE MARKS on their necks. Orelas' new-found fangs glint in the candlelight.
And why shouldn't we live forever?
Stands shell shocked, the level of betrayal staggering.
Sends him sailing through the air, Black Hat crashing into a collection of CANDLE HOLDERS, an ancient TAPESTRY catching fire, flames quickly spreading to the other fabrics -- The chamber erupting in an orange blaze!
With them I can start anew! You can't stop it --
"I looked and beheld a pale horse and His name that sat on him was Death" --
"And all hell followed with him." He raises his head back, ready to sink his teeth. Priest too exhausted to fight back. This is it. Prom a b= --
WRENCHES himself from,Black Hat's grip, tumbling. across the floor. WHAPI The cross S LM onto Black Hat, pulverizing hi !
Am I next? Priest approaches -- Koeppen closing his eyes, ready for the blow he knows is to come. But Priest only lifts the man's head, studying his neck. He's clean. And without a single word -- Priest just walks away. When Koeppen opens his eyes, he's a new man -- a man absolved. With renewed energy, he looks to the crowd around him. And for the first moment in a long time ...He believes.
Ask yourselves -- Where am I going? At this, Priest turns, the question catching him as well. And it's only now he realizes -- He has no answer.
Its rusty blades scrape along, the metal catching the first rays of the day. AARON PACE is already up, working on rebuilding his house. He stops, gazing off in the distance.
Leans against the backwall watching. Lucy glances his way... then shyly looks away.
I can't thank you enough for what you've done, sheriff.
Just make sure she keeps on the tea. It's a special brew -- lessens the bloodthirst...something my granddad taught me. Aaron nods hopefully, squeezing his. daughter's hand.
Stands astride a motorcycle, shadowed in the moonlight.
It doesn't have to be like this. Priest just stands, staring. Hick's hand curls around the revolver. Priest looks to the cabin, the challenge hanging in the air
He steps from the bike, advancing towards Hicks. Hicks pulls his gun, leveling it. Priest keeps coming, the wind blowing harder as he approaches. A feeling of inevitability. Hicks stands his ground, cocking his gun.
D= I t- -make dQ this.
Stares into his eyes and -- Something passes between them something so strong and personal it transcends emotion. Hicks FIRES! But Priest is pone. Hicks looks around -- There's no sign of him, not even the bike.
He RACES back to the cabin...
All done.
Nothing to worry about, just a coyote. Aaron smiles, happy enough to be with Lucy.
Well ...we're all God's creatures. Hicks turns, ready to leave, but something on the table catches his eye
Don't forget your cross -- It's beautiful. A flicker of a smile crosses Hick's face, realizing.
