C'mon, Robin.
He's got a meeting at the high school. We're supposed to walk home with Kim... (sees Robin watching the young couple) She's too busy. Let's go by ourselves.
N-n-n-no, Alex. Let's w-w-wait.
Why? Robin is staring at Nick. Alex looks, understands. He's angry.
He strides away. Robin's eyes remain on Nick and Kim. Nick says something to Kurt. She shakes her head and pains toward Robin. Robin quickly turns away as they look at her.. When she glances back, Ki_m is walking towards her and Nick is bicycling away.
Okay, let's go. The sisters start to walk across the lawn.
Y-you 1-1-like him?
Who?
Nick? Oh, he's all right, I guess. They walk on in silence with Robin stealing glances at her big sister.
Robin? Robin smiles and takes Kim's hand. They walk along the road, kicking rocks and swinging their bookbags. Sud- denly Kim halts.
Robin watches her go, then moves off alone, breaking into a skip and playing imaginary hopscotch. As she turns off the main road into a side street, Robin passes a construction site. The empty skeleton of a half-finished apartment building looms up above the dark shade trees. Hearing VOICES, Robin stops to investigate.
I want to play 'Murder.' Who's the killer?
You, Wendy!
Yes, Nick!
The killer is coming for you! He moves into the building, chanting "Kill, kill.," in a low monotone. As he disappears from view, Robin cau- tiously edges out of the bushes and moves up to the building.
The killer strikes!
Robin moves through a dark corridor, hugging the walls. Flushed with excitement, she imagines herself a "killer" searching for Wendy. As she moves past an empty room, she hears a SOFT GIGGLE. Robin stops and listens care- fully. Once again she hears the GIGGLE, LOUDER this time, coming from nearby. Stepping to a doorway, she leans around the corner and peers inside. In the darkness she can see nothing. Gathering her courage, she quietly slips into the room. The room appears empty but a closet door is slightly ajar. As Robin approaches, she hears a FAINT GASP from behind her. Whirling around, she sees Wendy crouched behind a cardboard box in the corner.
Killers, here! Wendy advances. Terrified, Robin begins to back away.
N-n-n-no!
Nick, Jude and Kelly appear in the doorway, chanting "Kill, kill." Moving quickly, Robin grabs the ladder and starts down into the basement, careful not to knock over the sheets of glass stacked near the opening. Peering into the pitch-black basement, Robin hesitates. But as Wendy and her fellow "killers" close in on her, Robin continues down the ladder. Wendy rushes up and grabs the ladder.
Are you crazy? They'll put us in jail! Confused, Nick cannot reply. The other girls grow silent.
Listen to me!
We'll go home now and never ever tell anyone. They'll think it was an accident. 1,10 one but us will ever know. She looks at each of them. They are still too numb to respond.
Kelly? Kelly looks from Wendy to the mangled body and begins to whimper.
Swear!
I swear. Wendy turns to Nick. At first he appears defiant, ready to object, but he wilts under her withering gaze.
Good.
With a final glance down at Robin's mutiliated body, Wendy quickly ushers her shocked friends out of the room. As their FOOTSTEPS ECHO away across the hardwood floor, there is a terrible silence. Then, starting very quietly, more FOOTSTEPS are HEARD, this time a single person approaching the ladder from above. The FOOT- STEPS STOP and a deep, black shadow falls across the ladder; HEAVY BREATHING punctuates the oppressive quiet, growing louder and more anguished.
No!
Daddy?
(angrily,
Why did you bring them here? Vivian collapses, burying her head in his shoulder and sobbing furiously, but Hammond pushes her out of the room.
 I'll tell you, Vi, I'm thinking of starting up an armed robbery course at the high school.. I've got a feeling it'd be popular... He smiles at his joke, looks at her. She doesn't seem to have heard him.
Scared tiff. She leans over to kiss her mother. Vivian automatical- ly turns her cheek to Kim without looking at her.
No, dear. Fix yourself a good meal. You're getting awfully thin. Kim and her father exchange glances. He shrugs
who's your lucky escort tonight?
You know, Daddy... Nick.
(affects a casual
Vi, I made you an appointment with Dr. Fairchild. Vivian finally looks up at him.
Today?
Now, Vi... Vivian stumbles to her feet and rushes out of the kitch- en before he can finish. With a glance at Kim, Hammond hurries after his wife. Going out through the swinging door, he bumps into a young man just entering.
Hammond exits. Alex, now sixteen, a tall, slender boy, casts a knowing look at Kim. Kim nods. Alex. shakes his head, then begins to rummage through the Pantry, pulling out a Hostess viTikie. ?lopping down at the table, he flips open his electronics book and begins to read. Munching on his Twinkie, he swipes sips from Kim's glass of milk.
Have you got a date for tonight? His mouth crammed.full of Twinkie, Alex mumbles his reply.
C'mon, Kimbo, I may be hard up...
Alex! Jude's cute... Besides, she's funny and really smart. Give you somebody to do equations with!
Not bad but it's not romance.
It'll do for tonight. Kim shoots him a look, then backs off.
If you get a chance, dance with Jude once or twice, okay?
Sure. He returns her glass of milk, empty.
Trust me. Vivian does not move. Finally, after a long pause, she turns toward her husband. Her eyes filled with tears, she nods.
I'll just be a minute... Vivian is already reaching for the door handle,
See you later,'Mom. Vivian gives her a thin smile. Hammond takes her arm and leads her into the imposing building.
Could I have one of those? My nerves are shot this morning. With a terrified glance back at the woman, Vivian rushes out of the elevator. Hammond follows.
We appreciate your seeing... us. I know how busy you must be. Vivian is staring at a painting of a young girl playing with a kitten. Catching Fairchild's eye, Hammond nods toward the outer door. Vivian does not notice the gesture.
Have a seat, Vivian. I'll be right in. She slowly crosses the room, turning suddenly in the doorway.
I won't forget. Vivian looks from Hammond to Fairchild, who smiles. She enters the office, leaving the door open. Hammond shakes hands with Fairchild, and for Vivian's benefit adds... HAI`i IOND
She's at it again.
Seven years ago today Robin was killed. Fairchild looks up from filling his container with water.
Pardon?
Tonight's the Junior-Senior Prom at our high school. Robin would have been sixteen, She and Alex.
The twins... How is Alex?
Fine. I just thank God he was too young to really understand what happened to his sister.
And your older daughter?
 And yourself? No scars?
 I've learned to live them.. Vivian seems worse this time.
Something more serious than her daughter's death?
You all right? They both nod. Alex massages his wrist. Hammond slips the car into gear and cautiously continues driving.
You're worried about Mom?
I was... He is interrupted by DISCO MUSIC ON the RADIO. Play- ing with the tuning dial, Alex quickly tries to pass over the music.
Hey, keep that! Alex groans but does as she asks.
Disco sucks!
Sorry, Dad... (turns back to
Disco bites it!
Good morning, Mr. Sykes. SANFORD SYKES, the newly-hired custodian, bares his yellow teeth in a crooked grin and waves the whirring blades in salute. Kim shudders and stays close to her father as they walk on.
He's creepy.
I heard he's wacko.
The man is not... wacko.
Kelly says he's a pervert, spying on the girls undressing in the locker room.
Sykes may have some problems, but he's no Peeping Tom. He's been thoroughly checked out.
I'.ve got to decide on my hair style for tonight.
I'm building an atomic bomb in shop. Smiling, he moves inside. Hammond shakes his head and hurries off.
He slams the door. At the sudden SOUND, the startled Woman whirls around, still squatting, and falls on her rear.
Who are you?
Oh... no, I'm your Working Girl Hammond stares, wide-eyed.
 What happened?
Well you see, Mr. Hammond, the, air conditioner fan was set for high but...
Whatever! I have some important calls to make. Please see that I'm not disturbed... (wades through the papers to his inner
, and put all this back where it belongs! He enters his office.
W-Wendy? T-t-tonight it's m-m-my t-turn! Wendy's shock quickly turns to anger.
Screw you, Lou! Wendy slams the receiver into its cradle. Grabbing her books, she storms out of her bedroom.
You be home for dinner, Wendy? Wendy angrily grabs her sweater from the woman.
How the hell do I know? She exits.
K-K-Kelly? T-tonight it's m-m-IZ Horrified, Kelly drops the phone. The DOORBELL RINGS. Frightened, she gasps, hugging the wall. The DOORBELL RINGS again. Very slowly she moves out of the kitchen.
Yes?
Christ, Kelly, c'mon! We're late! Relief floods across her face. Kelly quickly unfastens the latch.
Oh, Drew, thank God! She throws herself into the arms of the pleasantly sur- prised DREW SHINNICK, a muscular blond athlete.
 I'm glad to see you, too.
Drew, this horrible -voice...
Nightmare?
On the telephone. It sounded so evil!
Worse than that...
'm serious! Drew makes a grab for her but she avoids him, hurries inside. He sighs and leans against the doorjamb to wait.
So am I.,.
The car stops at a light and Drew is instantly on Kelly, biting her neck and kissing her hard on the mouth. She pushes him back.
We'll get there... eventually.
Really? Drew HONKS the HORN at another driver.
Hell, you should be glad. A lot of girls would love to have someone steady like me. His irrepressible right hand starts up her leg.
J-Jude? T-t-tonight it's my-my t-t-turn! A disappointed Jude slowly replaces the receiver. Mrs. Cunningham looks on sympathetically. Still no date?
 Getting closer, though.
A boy?
Hey, beautiful, need a lift? Jude continues walking, the van moving slowly alongside her.
No thanks.
C'mon, I won't bite. Jude chomps down hard on her apple.
So who are you? TheGuy leans further out the window.
Seymour Stone but.. He's cut short as the van bounces up onto the sidewalk. Jude shrieks. The flustered boy steers the van quickly back onto the road.
I can see why... How old are you, Slick?
Old enough...
I've heard about guys like you... running over girls on the sidewalk...
Just some girls... If they're good lookin' I give 'em a ride.
Looks like a cheap motel.
Cheap?... that's a two hundred dollar waterbed there... Jude turns around for a look.
You think this is the time to study? She grabs the book, gives it to him. He places it on the fold-down table between them, flips it open. The inside is hollowed out into a container. It contains nearly a hundred neatly rolled joints.
Straight to Winston High?
You won't believe it...
Sixteen!
I believe it. They both break up giggling.
You going to the prom tonight? Jude looks away, embarrassed.
Sure, of course.
So I guess we're both maybe not going...
Yeah... too bad... He looks at her.
I'd love to! She kisses him on the cheek.
Let's go, son! A handsome dark-haired boy of eighteen emerges from a back room. He's Nick McBride. His father pulls open the front door.
Right, I know... McBride steps out into the hallway. Nick grabs his books and follows. The TELEPHONE RINGS. Nick hesi- tates. Shaking his head he exits, shutting the door.
Why didn't you answer i
It's just Wendy. She's pissed off. She wants me to take her to the prom tonight.
I thought you two broke up. The TELEPHONE continues to RING.
Three months ago... you can't tell Wendy anything she doesn't want to hear.
Aren't you going with the Hammond girl? The principal's daughter?
God, I wish I had your women problems. They walk down the corridor as the TELEPHONE continues to RING.
Hello... what?... He listens, expressionless, then hangs up. He flips a switch on the console and the MUSIC STOPS. He sits there a moment, thinking. Then he turns out the lights and exits.
The FOOTSTEPS return, louder. Kim begins to hurry. She rounds a corner and slips against the wall, waiting. Silence. With a deep breath, she moves on to her locker. Kim quickly twists the dial on the combination lock and yanks open the door. Grabbing several books she slams the door shut. A mop HANDLE CRASHES into the locker, missing her head by inches. The SHARP REPORT echoes down the corridor. Terrified, Kim jumps back, spins around. Sykes is standing there.
S-s-sorry, Missy. You hurt? Her heart pounding wildly, Kim rushes into the gym. Sykes picks up his mop.
Gazing around, Kim feels the excitement of anticipation. Imagining herself in Nick's arms, she begins to dance, whirling through the gym to the music in her head. Suddenly, someone is clapping, slowly.
Bravo... Kim stops abruptly. Standing onstage, watching her, is Wendy.
Yes, as a matter of fact... I was just...
Thinking about Nick, maybe?
That's my business.
You wish! Nick is King of the Prom, you happen to be Queen of the Prom... that's all there is to it, Hammond... As far as anything else... Nick is mine...
You really ought to tell him that.
I'm telling you, okay? Stay away from Nick!
You and Nick haven't been together in ages.
You know nothing about it!
Really? So who are you going with tonight?
It's not who you go with, honey... it's who takes you home.
I'll try and remember that.
Wait and see, bitch... Just wait and see...
: So then she threatened me.
Wendy's a jerk!
She didn't!
Swear to God!
Dual headers... thinks he's a fox... Dust'll run you... long and slinky and tight... swings like my mother... how much for half a lid? Jude joins Kim and Vicki as they walk.
guys.
Jude.
Missed you on the bus today.
I didn't ride it.
I thought you were too big to hide.
Who with?
None of your business.
I knew there was some reason Kim wouldn't go out with me. She likes girls! The girls separate.
Say goodbye, Lou.
 Let's go. They head down the hallway to their lockers. Lou tags along.
You girls get bored with each other, I'm always around, you know? They pass Kelly and Drew huddled at her locker. His hands rest on her shoulders. They are talking intently.
Poor girl must be exhausted. Look how he has to hold her up... (sees Nick approaching
Uh oh. Kim stops suddenly and turns to look. Lou bumps into her, his hand purposely grazing her rear.
Go play with yourself, Lou.
I'm saving it for you. Kim sighs with disgust and turns around as Nick walks up talking to Wendy.
Wendy, for Christ sake, I never...
We'll talk about it later, lover. Bye. Wendy smiles and strolls away. Lou follows her.
Shhh!
Oh no you don't... (turns back and calls to Nick) She's smiling, Nick. Big grin spread all over her face. Kim punches her friend but the damage is done. Nick grins broadly. Blushing, Kim turns back, flashes him a quick smile and disappears around a corner to the hoots of Vicki and Jude.
Nick walks out onto the diving board. Drew is treading water below him.
You wanta take care of yourself, man... Kim's expecting a lot from you tonight... Nick laughs.
Hammond crosses to a rear door, tries it. It's locked. He turns back. As he does so there's a sudden WHIRRING SOUND. A row of spotlights flashes on right in front of him, almost blinding him. He tries to shield his eyes.
Who's there? Hammond, shaken, looks across to the far wing. There's an elevated platform where the electronic control panel is located. Alex peers down.
Alex?... What the hell're you doing?
I'm testing the board... I didn't hear you... nobody's supposed to be here yet...
No, well'... He looks around. He's still trying to get himself together.
Glancing out the door, the two girls stare in disbelief at the small weird curly-haired boy doing a perfect im- itation of the eminently boring Weller. Their surprise turns to hilarity as they realize this boy must be Jude's prom date. Kim holds up the note, raising her eyebrows as she gestures toward Slick. Jude nods. Kim and Vicki can barely contain their laughter. They do not notice Mr. Weller eyeing them suspiciously as he rattles on about frog intestines. Slick mouths the words, "See you at lunch.., in the van." Jude nods and smiles. With a final bow and a wave, he exits. Kim suddenly looks up to find a red-faced Mr. Weller looming above her.
Miss Hammond! Wide-eyed, Kim desperately tries to crush the note in her hand.
 Read the note?
Yessir...  Well, it's mostly talking about...
What a hunk! Titters from the class.
The class roars with laughter.
(reading ahead,
and his name is Slick! The classroom erupts into laughter as the BELL RINGS, signaling the end of the class. Still laughing, stu- dents gather their books and shuffle out, several giv- ing Kim sympathetic glances as they pass.
After school, Miss Hammond. One hour detention study hall... you and your friends! Kim looks from Jude to Vicki.
But, Mr. Weller, tonight's the prom...
Looks like a party.
Yeah -- I don't think he's gonna be too good for my diet... Slick moves down the lunch line. Suddenly he is bumped from behind, sending the tray and the snacks flying across the room. Looking around, Slick jumps back, startled by a tall figure wearing a dark ski mask.
Say what?
 Like me better now?
It's an improvement! She turns her back to him.
You like it so much... (spins her around to
Have a taste. He kisses her hard on the mouth. Swinging at him, Kim breaks away. Laughing, Lou grabs her wrists and rough- ly pulls her to him. Alex instantly jumps to his feet.
holding Kim close) Be nice... Alex leaps over the metal railing separating the line from the tables. Crashing into Lou, he drives the larger boy back into the salad counter, sending food and utensils flying. As they tumble off the counter onto the floor, Alex gets in several furious punches before Lou's gang can pry him loose. Two of the gang pin Alex against the counter. Wiping blood from his mouth, Lou grins maliciously and slugs Alex in the stomach. The boy groans and doubles over. Lou grabs Alex's hair and slams his head back against the glass shield of the counter. As Lou rears back to throw another punch, his two friends suddenly release Alex and scatter. The boy crumples to the floor. Lou turns around to see two MALE TEACHERS rapidly approaching. The larger teacher grabs Lou.
This time you're out, Perano. Lou points to Alex who is being helped up from the floor.
He started i
I'll bet... Alex?
That's not true! Alex was trying to help me. The teacher looks from Kim to Lou to Alex.
You'd better come along to your father's office.
I don't care who. Just somebody else!
I've got it now... better!
Lou! The surprised Lou tries to stop but the Teachers hurry him and Alex past the couple. Wendy watches Nick.
 I got this appointment.
Wendy turns to see Nick's reaction but he is already walking towards the cafeteria. The irate girl glares after him.
Can't it wait?
I didn't ask... But one looks a little like that child in the picture on your desk. Hammond automatically glances at the photograph of Robin framed alongside one of the rest of his family.
 I've got to go now, Vi... We'll be there within the hour... There's a loud CLICK on the other end of the line.
I was just foolin' around with this girl...
when this -- your son tackled me and...
You knew what?
It just figures.
(his voice rising
That I'll play favorites? That I'll go easy on Alex because he's my son? (pauses, waiting for Lou to back down and
Damn right I will! You're a disgrace to this school and this community...
See you around. He exits, slamming the door.
Have the nurse take a look at you, then get back here. Alex exits. Hammond angrily grabs Lou's ski mask and hurls it at the trash can_
Watch for me, little girl. You know I'm just a kiss away. Lou laughs and walks off toward the parking lot. Kim shudders. Wendy's white Mustang slides up to the curb. The pass- enger window rolls down and Lou leans over to look in- side. After a moment he climbs in and the MUSTANG PEELS out of the lot, leaving twin black tread marks in its wake.
What a pair!
Made for each other! Kim opens a carton of yogurt.
You wearing that green gown tonight?
You kidding? That was last year. This year... red silk! (smiles and runs her hand from her neck to her waist) Cut to here! ...
Cut to where? Kim and Vicki turn to see Nick ambling across the lawn toward them.
Ready to order?
I'm uh... a little short on cash..
You can owe me.
Yeah? Okay then, a couple of burgers, a large fries... what kind of beer you got?
C'mon man, this is a drive-in not a bar.
All right, all right... don't get nervous... Gimme a coke...
 She'll have the same.
A small diet cola.
That ' sit. The Car-hop shrugs, wheels away. Wendy turns to Lou.
I'll buy you one for Christmas, all right? Now, how do I know you're serious?
Whatta you mean, serious? I hate that school, Hammond and his asshole family...
I don't want anyone hurt... not badly.
You got it... anything your little heart desires...
Lou, shouldn't we go over this. Lou puts his finger to her mouth, silencing her.
I'll take care of it, Scout's honor... Don't worry about it...
Don't worry about it.. She unbuttons his shirt and begins to kiss and lick his chest. Slowly she works her way down. Lou begins to writhe. Wendy's head disappears from VIEW. Lou's eyes snap open in surprise. Wendy groans.
Damn stick shift! Lou starts to protest, then dissolves.
Enjoy your meal.
Nick and Kim walk slowly along the rim of the bluffs. Nick has his arm around her. She leans into him.
I am excited, it's just... in some ways it's such an awful day... It's Robin's day...
My mother's all upset, as usual. My father too... he doesn't show it so much... It's hard to get over something like that. Robin would have been a junior, like Alex. This would've been her first prom... I guess that's'why it seems so much worse this year... She stops, turns and faces Nick. It's hard for him to meet her gaze.
I love you too.
I'm... I want you to know that... Robin's death... I remember it and I've always been... so sorry about it... Kim looks puzzled.
That's my father... I've got to go, Okay?
Yeah... I'll see you later. She hesitates a moment, then kisses him quickly, turns and goes. Nick looks shaken up. He stares after her as she hurries away. Behind Nick, in the other corner of the parking lot, a metal door slides open, loud RAUNCHY ROCK and ROLL sud- denly infests the air. Nick turns, sees Jude climbing out of Slick's van. Jude looks about as stoned as she can get. She spots Nick, waves.
Hey, Nick! Nick turns and heads the other way.
Shhh! Kelly takes Jude aside as Kim and Vicki approach Henri Anne.
You sure she likes Weller?
Positive. I heard her say she's had the hots for him since they met!
She said that?
Well, not exactly.
Oh, Kim. You'll be in the gym promptly at three-fifteen for rehearsal?
Well, actually no, Miss Benton. can't make it... You know Mr. Weller?
We're... acquainted.
He.. umm..
 He has what? Kim, wide-eyed, can only look at Vicki.
He keeps making Kim stay after school in detention study hall for no reason... Just so he can be near her.
That's horrible! Kim gulps.
So you have detention this afternoon? Kim nods meekly. Lost in thought, Henri-Anne fondles a tennis ball, a curious smile playing across her face.
Leave everything to me... She hurries away. Kim turns on Vicki and starts to protest.
Mr. Sykes!
Vicki, don't...
Oh, Mr. Sykes... Sykes stops, turns around.
I'm not like the others, Kim. Drew needs somebody like Vicki who'll give him what he wants.
I'm afraid if I don't make it with him he'll find somebody who will.
I'd die if he did... The girls wrap towels around themselves and walk to- wards the showers.
See you outside, Wendy.
Just be a minute... Kim and Kelly hang up their towels and step into the showers.
What about you and Nick?
What about us? Wendy finishes brushing her hair, shoots Kim.a dark look, exits.
What.happened when he asked you? Kim smiles.
Maybe I asked him... Kelly looks at her friend.
I'll be right there, Melanie. No answer. Curious, Wendy moves around the lockers, investigating. The room appears empty. There's a sudden LOUD CREAKING. Wendy whirls around. A locker door is swinging slowly open.
I think I'll let Drew do it. The door to the locker roor slowly opens behind them.
Let him? She looks at Kelly. Neither girl hears the SQUISH of RUBBER SOLES moving across the wet tile floor. Suddenly there are LOUD VOICES. Melanie comes through from the locker room, laughing. Behind her, Wendy's ANGRY WORDS are AUDIBLE.
If you ever try anything like that again, you cow! Melanie thinks it's hilarious.
 You should've seen her jump... Nadia Comenici never did better... Wendy storms in. She's got the photo in her hand. She waves it at Kim and Kelly.
What's this supposed to mean?
I didn't! She turns, glares at Melanie.
Don't look at me...
You're all... children... She storms out. Melanie looks at Kim and Kelly, shrugs, follows Wendy. A DOOR SLAMS in the locker room. Kim and Kelly look at each other, laugh, turn their faces back to the steaming water. Neither one hears the SOUND across the room, a HARSH RHYTHMIC HEAVY
Kelly bends her head away from the water, clears her eyes., She squints out through the steam at the big wall mirror across the room. She sees something. She steps back into Kim, her eyes wide with fear.
Watch it... Kelly covers her breasts with her arms, presses against the wall, terrified. Suddenly there's an EXPLOSION of SOUND. Kim screams, jumps back, stares. There's a jagged hole in the cen- ter of the mirror, huge cracks radiating from it, spidering across its surface. For a moment no one moves. Splinters of GLASS TRICKLE down to the floor. There's no other sound. Kim grabs for her towel, steps out of the shower, looks. There's no one. She heads for the locker room door. Kelly runs after her.
What did you see? Kelly just shakes her head.
Just... just... a shadow or.,. Kim heads for the exit door across the room. Kelly stays with her.
Someone was there! Someone was... in there... Kim is taking charge. She moves cautiously back to the shower room door, opens it, looks in. She gasps.
I'd like to see my f ather .
Another Hammond?
No, he's not. He said he'd be back but... She trails off. Kim is obviously upset.
Oh... There was... Somebody broke a mirror in the shower room... There was somebody in there...
A mirror? Seven years bad luck... She tries to smile. Kim just looks at her.
Did it work? Kim is startled, turns. Vicki and Jude and approach- ing. Vicki hurries to the door, reads the note.
Careful, Monty... A little higher... (sees Kim and
I'm glad you could make it!
Something came up...  'Afternoon, Mr. Weller.
Let's get started.
All set, Miss Benton. Just have Davy roll the tapes.
Wonderful. You can be Mr. Hanunond for the rehearsal! Alex groans. Kim smiles as Nick joins her. She takes his hand, clutches it. They start to walk away, talk- ing quietly. Nick puts his arm around her.
You'll wait here... (looks around for
Nick? Nick silently creeps from behind a partition and moves up directly behind Henri-Anne. He mimes choking her, a crazed expression on his face. Kim has to laugh at his clowning.
Nick!
You have to stand up here tonight, not me. If you don't know what to do, you'll look the fool! Nick glances at Kim. She shrugs.
Come along. Nick follows her to the opposite wing. Kim cannot see them from her position.
 Can you hear me, Kim?
Yes. Kim leans against a wall, gazing around at her gloomy surroundings. She does not hear the WHISPERED CONVER- SATION coming from behind a nearby partition. She does not see Wendy and Lou lurking there, watching her.
Listen for your cue, king and queen... PROFESSIONAL MUSIC is HEARD.
Start walking -- slowly! Kim begins to cross the stage. She smiles when she spots Nick. The curtain slowly opens.
The King and Queen of the George Winston High School Junion-Senior Prom for 1980 -- Nick McBride and Kim Hammond! They meet backstage center and turn towards the parting curtain. Henri-Anne stands at the front of the stage, her hand resting on Alex's shoulder, as Kim and Nick proceed downstage.
(to Kim as they
Bullshit! Kim smiles. Peeking out from behind the curtain, Wendy turns to Lou.
Nick is a three-sport letterman and president of the Key Club. He plans to attend State University in the fall.
Because he can't get in anywhere else!
Kim is the head cheerleader and ranked number one on the girls' tennis team. She hopes to become a teacher.
If she ever graduates... Nick and Kim stop downstage center.
Now, Alex. Self-consciously, Alex stumbles up to Kim and pretends to give her a bouquet of roses.
My sister?
Alex! Alex awkwardly kisses Kim on the cheek.
Kiss the king?
On the mouth! Kim laughs at Alex's discomfort.
Shake hands... They shake.
Where are the steps? Silence.
(continuing; to the
You expect our king and queen to jump to the floor? A STUDENT in the back timidly responds.
I'll find them, Miss Benton. Henri-Anne turns back to Nick and Kim.
You'll descend the steps... Nick and Kim climb down from the stage.
Hello? Adele twists her head around to look at Kim. Her "Rainbow" collapses. Spinning around, Adele sits cross-legged on the floor and smiles at Kim.
You okay?
Yeah... I've calmed down a bit...
This works for me.
Has my father been back?
Nope. Haven't seen him all afternoon.
And he didn't leave a message?
Not a word.
Let me finish and I'll give you a lift.
Thanks, but I can walk. Kim starts to leave, turning around at the door.
Guess again. Three different students asked me to the prom tonight... I thought you had to be enrolled!
You're going?
I'll keep my eyes open. See you later. She exits as Adele slowly lowers her legs to the floor.
Jude... look... She has something in her hand. It's a photo of her, a, Yearbook photo with the same torn edges. Jude holds up her version.
Hi. Oblivious, Hammond buries the axe in the stump. Kim moves around to face him. When he sees her, Hammond jumps, startled.
I didn't hear you.
I'm getting too old for this.
Why are you doing it now?
Your mother's been hounding me to get it done... You got nay message?
Your secretary?
I liked her. Hammond angrily jerks the axe from the stump.
No. How is she?
Great!
I'm not so sure.
I think getting dressed up and going out might be good for her.
She's had a bad day, Kim. I'm not sure she can handle it... See if you can talk to her. Hammond picks up the axe and sends it crashing into the stump.
Hi, Mom.
Hello, Robin. Don't eat anything. Dinner's almost ready. Disturbed, Kim frowns and slowly crosses the room to her mother.
Nothing's cooking, Mom. You must've forgotten. Slipping out of her reverie, Vivian turns around to face Kim.
Oh.. I don't know what I was thinking.
You'll be beautiful.
 What I'm wearing now?... Oh, tonight! (smiles, gently stroking the gown) You'll find out soon enough.
Kim! Vivian comes in looking anxious and flustered. She's dressed in an elegant black satin pantsuit. Kim turns, looks at her.
Mom, it looks great... Vivian doesn't seem to hear her. She's rummaging through her purse.
Kim, have you got any of my makeup?
No... I never...
That deep red lipstick, you remember? You liked it...
I wouldn't take it without asking you... Vivian's very wound up.
It was on my dressing table, I set it aside... She's looking around Kim's room as if she expects to see it.
let's go, we can't be late...
My God, we're going to look like twins. Vivian stops dead, looks at him. Hammond forces a smile.
I told you I'd bought it.
Of course you did. He opens the door for her. She pauses to check herself in the mirror.
I'm going back to change. She turns back to the house. Hammond holds on to her arm.
Vi... there's no time...
I'm not going to look ridiculous!
You don't look ridiculous, you look fine...
Vi.. this is a big night for the school, it's a big night for me... I know how you're feeling... I understand... It's difficult for all of us... But we've got to make a special effort, Vi... We can't let the... terrible memories of this day affect us... That may seem cold and... insensitive to you, but it's the way it has to be.. He pauses, staring down at his wife. She's holding his gaze.
You don't want me to go.
You don't think I can do it... You think I'll embarrass you...
No! I don't... believe me..
Then why are you saying these things?
Vi... I just.. He's trying to stay calm, to keep the lid on. She's on the verge of tears.
You treat me like a child! I'm your wife! She glares at him. He releases her from his grip, ges- tures toward the car.
Let's get going... He walks around to the driver's door. Vivian stares after him with hard cold eyes.
Well? Alex gapes, stunned by his sister's appearance.
You look almost like a woman!
You're my sister... I'll leer!
Hey!
You shouldn't have pulled away... The DOORBELL RINGS.
er's face is revealed. It is the nine-year-old Alex. Kim cradles the killer on the ground. She turns his head toward the light. We SEE his face full-on.
Robin! She rushes forward, lunging for the body. Hammond grabs her, restraining her. Alex's dark eyes stare back unseeing at his family. His resemblance to his dead twin sister is uncanny. His hair falls onto his forehead in bangs, as Robin's had done seven years before. His makeup has been slop- pily applied. The rouged cheeks and the smudged red lips amplify the grotesque impersonation. Kim strokes her brother's hair. Hammond presses his hysterical wife to him. The onlookers slowly close in. We SLOWLY DISSOLVE FROM Alex's face TO a photograph of the Hammond family taken seven years earlier. We MOVE IN CLOSE ON the twins. Alex and Robin are smiling.
