As we wander through expensive furniture, a steady THUMP, THUMP, THUMP echoes through the apartment.   Eventually, we see MARGARET MILLS  running on a treadmill, watching "The O.C." on Tivo, and reading a manuscript. She sprints as the clock on her treadmill goes to zero.   As she hits a button to stop the treadmill...
Where are my clothes? A blob beneath the sheets next to him answers.   SIMONE is the model on the walls and is really, really hot.
In the kitchen.   I think.   Can I make you some coffee?
Sorry, I gotta go.   I'm late. Richard hurries to the kitchen.   Socks are on the butcher block next to an empty champagne bottle.   Shoes in the sink.   He finds his pants on the floor and puts them on. RICHARD Have you seen my belt? Simone looks around and sees it tied to her headboard.
In here. She unties the complicated knot.   Richard comes back half dressed.   He swallows a little throwup.
Baby, I just can't do this anymore.
You're just too much for me.   And I'm just another guy too wrapped up in his job.
Fine.   Whatever.   Just go. Richard sits down on the bed and locks eyes with Simone.
Let's not end it like that. It's been an amazing three and a half weeks.   Thank you. And you should know that you have the nicest ass I've ever been with.
I do.   It's magnificent.
I work really hard on it.
I know you do. Simone smiles and begins to seductively pull the sheets off her naked body.   Richard shakes his head "no" and smiles. RICHARD I really gotta go.
 I knew you would call!   Now come on, tell me what I want to hear.   Give it to me.
You have to put it by your mouth so people can hear you.
You should get paid extra for being so darn funny. Margaret straightens her jacket, answers the phone, and walks out the door. MARGARET This is Margaret.
You're running late today.
Jillian, you are the best.
If you think I'm good at this, you should use that coffee cup sometime. As he runs out the door, Richard glances at his cup and smiles at Jillian's name and phone number written in Sharpie.
See ya tomorrow.
How long is she gonna make us come in by seven?
She doesn't exactly consult with me on these things.
Well this sucks ass.
Welcome to my nightmare. The doors close as...
You've been thinking about our talk because I'm right.   Everyone does publicity.   Roth, McCourt, Russo.   Hell, Chabon practically whores himself.   Know what they have in common?   A Pulitzer.  Yes, I know you haven't done it in twenty years, but that's how long it's been since you've written a book this good.
I'm not pushing so you'll sell more books, I'm pushing because it'll be a crime if the world doesn't hear that you wrote a genius piece of literature.   Do the publicity. Margaret waits for an answer and smiles when she hears "yes." MARGARET You're making the right decision!   Great news.   Going into an elevator, think I'm going to lose you... Margaret hangs up.   Never give them a chance to change their mind.
Good morning! Margaret quickly walks by and gives only the slightest nod.
You've got a conference call in thirty, a staff meeting at nine, and your immigration lawyer sent some papers for you to sign.
Cancel the call, move the meeting to eight,
 I got Frank to do publicity.
Nice job.
When I want your praise, I'll ask for it. Is Bob here?
I'm sure.   You want him on the phone?
We're going to his office.   Grab your pad. Richard calmly backs out of the office...
That's cute.   You gonna call her today?
What? Richard doesn't know what Margaret is talking about, until she nods at the cup.   He's embarrassed.
Are you bored here?   Do you need little distractions like that to get you through the day?
Uh...
You have another late night out?
I'm firing on all cylinders and you've got hearts on your coffee cup, wicked bed head, and a wrinkled suit that you wore yesterday.
Oh.   Well, it won't be wrinkled for long.
You'll magically unwrinkle?
Yes.
You have magic pants?
No.   I've sprayed them with stuff that will take care of the wrinkles.
Does this work on more than just your pants?
Anything that's wrinkled.
Buy me some.
Will do. Richard makes a note.   Margaret stops to make her point.
I don't care what or who you do on your own time, but when you walk through that door you represent me, and I will not have your personal life affect you at work.   If you want me to think of promoting you to editor, I need you sharp, focused and professional. Got it?
Got it.
Great.   Now you're just a prop in here, so don't say a word.
Hey, Bob.
Ah.   Our fearless leader and her liege. Margaret smiles.
I'm lettin' you go, Bob.
Pardon?
You're fired.
What?   What are you talking about?
This isn't working out.
You can't...
I asked you repeatedly to get Frank to do publicity.   You said it was impossible.
It is.   He doesn't do publicity.
I just talked to him.   He's in.
But...
No more buts, Bob.   I've been chief for a month and a half, and this is the third time you've dropped the ball.   You didn't even call to ask him.
All you had to do to was pick up the phone. That's it.   Now I'll give you two months to find a new job, and then you can say you resigned.   I won't tell a soul, my lips are sealed. Margaret nods at Richard and he opens the door.
What's he doing? Richard turns around and takes a peek.   Bob gets out of his chair and comes to his door.
He's up and about to pop.
Oh Bob, don't do it...
What are you doing?   I gave you a civilized way out of this.
This is because I'm your competition. Because I threaten you!
Oh, Bob.   You could never threaten me.   I'm firing you because you're lazy, entitled and incompetent.   I'm firing you because you don't work hard.   So if you know what's good for you, you'll shut up, take off that ridiculous bow tie, find a bar and get drunk.   Because if you say one more word, Richard here is going to call security and have you thrown out on your ass.   Are we perfectly clear? Bob nods. MARGARET Good.   Now I've got work to do, so if you'll
We need to call his authors and explain what happened.   And get Frank's publicity schedule figured out pronto.
No problem.   I'll just cancel my trip this weekend.
I gave you the weekend off?
It was my Grandma's ninetieth birthday. But no big deal.   You were right before, I need to stay focused.   Professional.
Well tell gammy that I'm sorry.  Mom, she's making me work this weekend. It's not like I volunteered.  I'm sure dad is pissed. Margaret comes to Richard's desk.   He tries to wrap it up. RICHARD I have to go.   Yeah.   No, I'm not going to do that!   No.   Sorta.   Mom!   No.   Bye. Richard hangs up the phone. RICHARD Sorry about that.   Damage control.
She tell you to quit?
No.   No.  Um.   Yes?   But as I've explained to them, after three years together, you're the only person on the planet who can make me editor, so that's the way it is. Richard's phone rings and he picks it up.
Your 10:55 is here.   Mr. Gilbertson?
Who is this guy?
He said you knew each other.   You weren't sure so you told me to set a meeting.   We rescheduled on him four times.
Go get him.   But he's out of here in five minutes, we've got work to do. Margaret leaves and goes into her office.
 I'll charge up the cattle prod.
Margaret.   Good to see you.   I know how busy you are.   Congrats on the promotion.   Read about it in P-W.
Yeah.   Well, those announcements are silly, aren't they?   Like everyone who needs to know doesn't know already. Margaret has been trying to figure out how she knows this man, but now gives up. MARGARET Have to admit, I can't place where we know each other from. Gilbertson smiles.   He didn't expect her to remember.
Three years ago?   We worked together.
Don't have it...
Remember "Dandelion's Desire?" Margaret gets excited.
Oh my God, you read that manuscript with me? That book is legend.   Without a doubt the worst ever written.
You think?
It was a fever dream!                                         900 offensive and pointless pages, with like 30 characters, who all had some weird disability.   The paraplegic pornographer, and the stuttering scientist?   Oh!   And there was the asthmatic alien chapter -- written entirely in his alien language.
I believe there was a glossary... Margaret laughs, caught up in the memory.
Did you see the pass letter I wrote him?
You wrote the book.
I did.
You're Dante Dickens?
One of my nom de plumes. Gilbertson paces.   Margaret stays seated, at a loss.
I'm sorry if I hurt your feelings.   You obviously were spending a lot of time writing, I just thought you should channel all that passion into something else. Gilbertson smiles as he pulls a BADGE from his coat pocket.
Ms. Mills, I'm with U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, and I'm deporting you to Canada.
Excuse me?   What?   This is a mistake.   I've lived here since 1981.   I'm applying for citizenship.
You need citizenship now?   After the big promotion?
Yes.   And all the papers are in. Gilbertson pulls out a stack of papers and throws them down.
Well, my office is going to reject your paperwork on Monday, while we investigate whether your behavior is well disposed to the good order and happiness of the United States.   We must protect our sovereignty.
I'm a threat to the sovereignty of the United States?
Yes, and unfortunately my investigation will take awhile, so you'll be deported while your case winds through the system.  Will it affect you at work if you aren't allowed to enter the U.S. for the next two to three years?
"Affect me at work?"   I'll lose my job!
 Ahhhh.   That's a shame.   Too bad we can't work something out. Margaret stops looking at her file.   It all becomes clear.
Oh, no.   No, no, no.   I won't do it.
Do what, Ms. Mills?
I've edited it down.   It's better.
Well then, get it published at another house.
They all just don't get me.
All?
Well not all.   Two hundred fifty, two hundred sixty-one.   Ish.
I'll be fired and laughed out of the industry if I publish that book.
I'm at the end of my rope, Ms. Mills.   I'm an author.   Not some bureaucrat who brings a lunchable to work everyday and lives in his brother's garage.   You're the last stop, and I'm desperate.
I will never publish your book.   Ever.
There's no need to make this difficult.   I don't turn in your file until Monday...
This is blackmail.   I'll go to your boss.
I've spent two years preparing for this day. Don't you think I've thought of that? Now Margaret is pacing, while Gilbertson happily looks on. Suddenly, the door opens and Richard bursts in, acting like there is an "emergency" so Margaret can end the meeting.
Excuse me, Ms. Mills, risk management needs you right away. The sight of Richard inspires Margaret.   She turns to Gilbertson with a wicked grin on her face.
Know what, Dante?   I'm not going anywhere! We're getting married! Richard has no idea what Margaret is talking about.
Who's getting married?
We are!
You and him?
Stop playing around, honey. Margaret is all smiles.   Richard is very confused. MARGARET Mr. Gilbertson is from the INS.   I told him about us.   About us getting married.
You are marrying your male secretary?
Assistant.
You are marrying your male assistant?
 We're in love.   We tried to fight it.   When it's right, it's right.
And this has nothing to do with my visit here today?
Nope.   True love.   Got it bad.
 You.   Is this true?   Are you marrying this... woman? Margaret comes over to Richard and holds his hand.
Of course we are.
Uh-huh. Margaret smiles and snuggles up to Richard so he can put his arm around her.   Richard is truly afraid. RICHARD  I'm, uh, marrying my boss? Margaret turns and puckers her lips to let Richard know that she's ready for a kiss.   The two slowly begin to come together. Just as their dry lips are about to touch, Richard chickens out and kisses the hair on the top of her head.
Five years in prison and a two hundred and fifty thousand dollar fine.
What?
If I prove you're lying, you go to federal prison for five years. Gilbertson takes out a pad and takes notes. MR. GILBERTSON  You.   Do you know what you're getting yourself into?   We're going to put you in a room and ask you every detail that a real couple would know about each other.   Do you even know her favorite color? Richard doesn't answer.   Margaret encourages him on with a thinly veiled threat.
C'mon.   Answer.   You don't have a choice. Richard doesn't want to do this, but relents.
Plum.
You mean purple?
No.   Plum is "smokier" than purple.
Favorite flower?
Tulips.   But only when they're in season.
Childhood pet name?
Miss Mittens.
Are we done here?
Who knows you're getting married? Margaret interrupts.
No one.   With us working together we decided it would be too much of a scandal if anyone knew.
Have you at least told your family?
How convenient.   So you're not telling anyone that you are getting married?
Nope. Gilbertson smiles and puts down his pad.
Pathetic.   Four questions and I've got enough to send you to prison...
We're telling his family this weekend.
We are?
Yes.   We are.   We're surprising them...  ...at his Grandma's 90th birthday party.
And where's that going to be?
 At Richard's parent's house.
And where's that located?
 In his hometown.
Sitka.
Is that on Long Island? Only Richard has the answer.   Margaret tries to cover.
Why don't you tell him?
Alaska.
You're going to Alaska this weekend?
 Yes.   Of course we're going to Alaska. That's where Richard is from. Gilbertson begins to walk around.   He's getting worked up.
You think you can beat me with this B-S story?   Forcing your secretary...
Assistant.
...assistant to marry you and then conveniently telling his family for the first time this weekend?
I'm sorry, Dante.   Did you not prepare for that? Margaret puts her arm around Richard and waits in silence.
The INS will see you both in ten days for your official interview.   Your stories better match up on every account. Mr. Gilbertson gets right up in Margaret's face as he gives her the piece of paper. MR. GILBERTSON Cross all your T's and dot your I's with this ruse, Ms. Mills.
There are no "T's" or "I's" in "Love" Mr. Gilbertson. Gilbertson leaves and shuts the door hard.   Margaret goes back to her desk like this is all in a days work. MARGARET Why are you from Alaska?   Sweet Jesus, that's inconvenient.   So here's what's going to happen.   We'll play boyfriend and girlfriend this weekend for your parents and that should be enough for this INS interview. Richard doesn't react.   Margaret doesn't notice. MARGARET So you need to figure out the travel, schedule a justice of the peace for next week, and get my lawyer on the phone. Margaret takes a sip of her coffee and makes a face. MARGARET But first, run down and get me another coffee from your girlfriend, this is cold. Margaret holds out her coffee cup.   Richard doesn't move. MARGARET Hello?   Richard?   Richard! Richard says his first words since Gilbertson left.
I quit. Richard leaves Margaret's office.   She still has her coffee cup outstretched in her hand.
Richard, come back here. Margaret tries not to make a scene. MARGARET Richard.   Richard. Richard pushes the elevator button in front of reception. MARGARET Come back to the office! Richard can't take it.   He gets up in Margaret's face.
You shut up.   You just lost your "I get to tell Richard what to do" privileges.
Well, we need to talk.
You want to talk with me?   Fine.   Grab your broom and let's go. Margaret is dumbstruck.   The receptionist is shocked.   The elevator arrives and Richard gets in.   Margaret follows. As the doors close, Richard shouts out to the receptionist. RICHARD Watch my phones!
Your plan is psychotic.
Well I'd rather poke my eyes out than play pretend girlfriend, but this is the big time.   Sometimes you need to sack up.
Aren't Canadians supposed to be nice?
You wanna be an editor?   You need to make
OK.   Fine.   Then if we "make this happen"? You're promoting me to editor.
I'm doing what?
We go to Alaska and lie to my family?   I risk going to jail?   Well, you're making me editor for that.   I mean, did you think I'd do this out of the kindness of my heart?
You work for me!
You know, during my employee orientation, the HR rep didn't mention anything about me marrying you.
Look, I came to this town alone and with nothing.   I've worked my ass off for fifteen years and this guy wants to ruin me because he wrote the shittiest book of all time?   No way.
Nice story Little Orphan Annie, but that sounds like your problem.   Not mine. Margaret is stuck.   Richard really does have the upper hand.
Fine.   You take me to Alaska this weekend, and I'll make you editor.   Deal? Margaret puts out her hand to shake, Richard takes it. MARGARET And I'm not sleeping on your parent's hide-a- bed, we're staying in a hotel.   Do they even have hotels in Alaska?
No.   But they have huts.   Teepees really. And you have to poop in a bucket.   But otherwise, just like the Four Seasons.   But with bears.
Um.   Shouldn't we talk about what we're going to say to my parents? Margaret doesn't look up, annoyed with the question.
Are you done with the press release?
Almost.
So what do I need to know up there?   Bullet points.
I told em we've been dating for six months. We've kept it a secret from everyone...  ...and that you're a naughty minx in the sack. Richard and Margaret make it to the attendant at the gate. Margaret is not amused by Richard's attempt at humor.
Bringing her home to meet my folks.   She's
I've got it here.   Sorry.   Guess I'm a little flustered too.   Haven't been home for awhile, hope they like her! The gate attendant smiles.
 I don't care, sir. Richard finds his boarding pass and hands it over.
OK then.   You're a sweet lady.   Thanks. Richard hustles to the plane as they shut the doors.
I'm sorry, I hate it when people stare at what I'm reading.   It's just... I worked on that book.
You wrote it?
Edited it.   It was one of my favorites.
Well you did a good job.   It's great.
You don't see many guys with that book. You, uh, read a lot of love stories about Roman concubines?
My ex-girlfriend gave it to me.   I travel a lot for work.   I'll read anything...
 OK, you got me.   I'm a closet romantic.   But let's keep that between us. Margaret smiles and makes the "my lips are sealed" motion.   Just then, Richard lumbers onto the plane with the bags.
There you are.   Give me my lap top. Richard untangles the bags and gives Margaret her computer bag.
 Hey, he's reading...
I know, Richard. Richard turns around and puts the bags in the overhead compartment.   The Handsome Man turns to Margaret.
Did you two want to sit together?
Sit together with who? The Handsome man nods at Richard.
Your boyfriend? Margaret points to Richard indignantly.
You mean him? The Handsome man nods.   Margaret tries to set the record straight. MARGARET No.   No.   No.   He's my assistant.
You're bringing your assistant all the way to Alaska? Richard smiles, happy that Margaret has to answer.
Oh, you can tell him the truth.
Well, he's... indispensable.
And gay.   Takes care of me everywhere I go. Call him my queen mother.   Aren't you my indispensable gay queen mother? Margaret shoots Richard a nasty look.   He has to go along.
That's me. Richard turns to close the overhead compartment.
You're awfully nice to fly him first class. Margaret nods her head and agrees.   It sucks to be Richard.
There he is!!!   Where's Margaret? Richard blanches white.   Margaret looks back with eyes that say "What the hell is going on?"
 That's sweet. Richard goes over to the group.   Margaret keeps walking.
What are you guys doing here?   What's with the sign?
So you're "just dating," huh?   I can't believe you didn't tell us!
Didn't tell you what?
We're not saying anything until you let us meet Margaret.   Now, where's our girl? Richard looks around.   Margaret keeps her head down and tries to avoid eye contact.
Uh.   Margaret?   You need to come over here. Like now.   Honey. The Handsome Man sees Richard with the banner people, calling for Margaret to come over.   Margaret winces.
I have to go now.
 What kind of sick shit is this? Margaret nods.   This would be a tough one to explain.
Have a great life. Margaret walks toward the group.   Richard puts out his hand and silently pleads for Margaret to hold it.   At the last second, she takes it.
Everyone, this is Margaret.
It's nice to meet you.   Now, do you prefer being called Margaret, or the Dragon Lady? We've heard it both ways. Everyone laughs.
Annnie!
It's not like he hasn't told her that he used to call her the Dragon Lady.   They're getting married.
 Now, ah, where did you hear that?   The whole "getting married" thing?
Oh, that man from the government.   Gilber- something.   Said he was checking up on you two.   Said it was technicality, because Margaret was from Canada.
What, ah, did you tell him?
Well for one thing, that you were in a lot of trouble for not telling us that you two were getting married!
No.   Really.   What did you say?
Just that you were coming up here this weekend.   That we hadn't seen you in a while, and that we'd heard about Margaret for years, but that we'd never met her. Debbie turns to Margaret and takes both of her hands. DEBBIE The way that Richard talked about you?   I'll admit, I didn't see this coming.
Me neither. Debbie picks up some of the bags and starts walking toward the exit.   Everyone else follows her lead.
So why all the silly secrecy?
It wasn't a secret.   We didn't tell anyone.
Well, is your family just anyone?
No, I didn't mean...
I should be mad at you two.   But, but... I'm just so excited!
 Uh, is everyone coming to our hotel?
Oh, we cancelled your reservation.   You're part of the family now.     Family doesn't stay at a hotel.   Also, we've got another little surprise for you two.
Surprise?   Another surprise?
She's not good with surprises.
I'm really not good with surprises.
Well you two...
...you're getting married this weekend!
What?                                                              What? GRANDMA ANNIE The whole kit and caboodle. Margaret gives both these women a look that says "what are you talking about?"
When Gilber-something told us you were getting married...
...God rest their souls...
...or friends...
...we decided to give you a wedding.
Engagement party tonight...
...and the wedding tomorrow at midnight. Debbie and Annie wait to see what Margaret thinks.
Are you witches?
Just quaint.   During the solstice it's good luck.   It's an Alaskan thing.
We've planned everything. Margaret isn't sold, so Grandma Annie goes for the clincher.
I'm old, Margaret.   I don't have much time left.   Richard lives so far away, and I never see him.   Now I find out he's getting married, and I have a chance to see my one grandchild's wedding day.   It's a dream come true for me.   A dream come true.   Please let me see Richard get married before I die. Please. Long beat.   Richard doesn't know what Margaret is going to say. Margaret doesn't know what Margaret is going to say.   Finally, she goes to speak, but can only get out... two big thumbs up. The crowd cheers.
To tell you the truth, we had a lot of the plans made already for my birthday.   Just a few changes here and there, and we made this weekend a wedding. Margaret stares at Richard.
I'm a lucky woman. Margaret does her best to smile.
I'm not getting out of this car until you tell me where we're going.
Come on, it'll be OK.   I promise. Richard points to a small island about a mile away.
Who are you people? Richard lets Margaret wonder.
So you must be Margaret.   We've heard a lot about you.   All of it bad. Margaret tentatively walks off the yacht in her none to practical sling backs. GEOFFREY I mean, I almost shit myself when I heard he was marrying the devil woman.
I thought it was the dragon lady?
Either way.
Hey dad. Richard shakes his father's hand.   It's a little stiff.
Welcome home.   Good to see ya.
You too.
Been a while.
Yeah.   You'd think you could make it to the airport to mark the occasion. Grandma Annie interrupts.
Help him with the bags Geoffrey.  Let's get you two settled. As Richard and Margaret move towards the house, Annie shoots Geoffrey a look that says "be nice".
We'll show you around later.
Uh huh.
Balzac!   Down!   No! Debbie pulls the dog off of Margaret and pushes him toward the kitchen.   Margaret tries to take it in stride and make small talk.
What a great name.   Balzac's "Lost Illusions" is one of my favorite novels.
Oh.   Well, this Balzac's got epididymitis. Debbie makes two big circles with her pointer fingers to illustrate how Balzac really got his name. Not understanding, Margaret looks over at Balzac as he walks away.   Off her shocked reaction, we understand right away that this puppy Husky is an anatomic marvel. DEBBIE No one on the island wanted him when he was born.   We figured he deserved a home.
And don't let him outside, or the eagles will snatch him.
C'mon dad...
I mean it.   They come out of that rehabilitation center mean.   And hungry.
Don't listen to him, Margaret.
You'll be sleeping here.
Bathroom is there, all the towels are in the armoire by the bed.   Just let me know if you
Thank you.   Where's Richard's room?
Oh, we took down his "shrine" years ago. And don't worry, I'm under no illusion that you two haven't slept in the same bed before.   Richard can sleep here too.
Oh, let's not upset Grandma Annie.
It was her idea.   Anything to help get her a great grandchild. Richard shrugs his shoulders behind his mother.
Great.   You know, I've gotten used to his breathing at night.
I thought so dear. Debbie leaves and shuts the door.   Margaret reverts back to her old self.
I'm about 15 seconds from bitch.
Calm down.
What is going on here?
Hell if I know.
You had no idea they knew about us getting married?
You think I'd bring you here if I did?
Well, we just gotta tell em.
Tell em what?
Tell em the truth.   About us.
Wrong answer.   No way.
What do you mean no way?   This is crazy.
No, crazy was lying to the federal officer.
Well I don't like this.
Well I'm not making my Gammy an accomplice to a Class C felony!   For one second could you not be so selfish?
Selfish?
Yeah, you know, that thing you do where you only worry about yourself every second of every day?
How is it selfish to tell the truth?
Look.   We're awful, awful people.   In the last forty eight hours, we've lied to... everyone.   We need to protect the people downstairs.   We can't ask these good, decent, not awful people to lie for us. Let's keep the darkside to ourselves. Margaret takes a second to make up her mind.
Fine.   But if we do this, you need to stop lying to me.
What've I lied to you about?
Why did you tell me that you were poor?
I never said that.
Well, you never told me you were rich.
When does that come up?
I don't know, how about, "Hi, my name is Richard, I'm an Alaskan titan of industry."
Well, maybe I didn't tell you because you would have fired me if you knew.
No I wouldn't.
Come on!   You're always yammering on about your scrappy childhood, and how you fought for those soccer scholarships, and how the rich kids made fun of you in prep school for working in the kitchen.   You're totally anti- rich.
I'm not anti-rich.
Oh yes you are!   And you know what makes it worse?   You have money!
I earned...
...every penny I have.   Blah, blah, blah. You need new material.
Hey.   Watch it.   You're still my assistant.
You were going to promote me anyway.
Sure of that?
Nope.   Not at all. Margaret takes a look at herself in the mirror.
Well, come on.   If we're going to do this, we might as well put on a show.
I went to Union college in upstate New York. It's a small liberal arts school that no one has ever heard of. Richard comes to the group and hands Margaret a drink. MARGARET  Lime?
Be right back. Richard leaves to fetch lime wedges.   Geoffrey elbows Debbie in the side, "What was that?"
Since I graduated college. Richard comes back with the lime.   Margaret takes it and doesn't say thank you.
She's been there since she was nineteen.
Nineteen?   Wow.   That's how long?
Oh, who's counting... Geoffrey could let it go, but wants to push her.
No.   How many years is that?   Exactly. Margaret gives Geoffrey the slightest look.
Well, let me see.   That would be sixteen or seventeen years.   Exactly.
I was never good with big numbers.   That makes you... thirty six now?
Just turned thirty seven.   Born on May 20th. I'm a Taurus. Geoffrey and Margaret give each other a smile. MARGARET  I need some protein.
There's some salmon. Margaret shakes her head no. RICHARD Crab? Margaret nods yes.   Richard steps away to find a waiter. Geoffrey watches his son do Margaret's bidding.
Keep him on a short leash, huh?   Does he roll over when you whistle? Debbie hits Geoffrey.
He's just being a good host. Richard comes right back with a waiter in tow.   For Geoffrey's benefit, Margaret makes a point to thank Richard.
Thank you, honey.   You're being so sweet. Richard is surprised, but remembers they're a couple.
Uh, sure.   Honey.
I'm editor in chief, now. Richard tenderly puts his arm around Margaret.
Editor in chief?   You're marrying up, Richard. Everyone turns around to find GERTRUDE THURMAN .   She is Grace Kelly in Patagonia and Timberland.   Adding insult to injury, she doesn't have eyeliner on.
Gert!? Richard snaps his arm back, hitting Margaret in the head, and spilling her tonic water on her shirt.   He doesn't notice what he's done, and leaves Margaret.   She's peeved. RICHARD
Your dad made me come.
From Chicago? Gertrude laughs.   The group watches these two see each for the first time in years.   There is instant chemistry, and Richard has forgotten about Margaret completely.
No.   I live here now.
You what?
I moved back about six months ago.   I'm teaching second grade.   At Baranof.
Did your husband move up here too?
Uh, no.   I, ah, got divorced.
Oh my God.   I'm sorry.
Me too.   But hey, we're being rude, I wanna meet the bride. Gertrude leaves Richard and goes to Margaret.
Hi, I'm Gertrude.   But call me Gert.
You're a Gertrude?
A family name from hell.
I'm sure it's been a curse.
Gert and Richard were quite the item in high school. Gertrude instantly dismisses Geoffrey's reminiscence.
Oh Please.   Ancient history.
Feels like yesterday to me.
 So tell me everything.   I hear it wasn't exactly love at first sight?
Not exactly...
Now Richard, what I want to know is how you proposed. This grabs the group's full attention.   Everyone loves to hear a story like this.
Well... Richard hasn't recovered from seeing Gertrude. RICHARD Uh, uh, um, I...
Yeah.   How did you pop the question? Richard is a deer in the headlights.   This is getting ugly. Margaret sees that Richard is going to crumble, and steps in.
Can I tell this one, honey?
Uh.   Sure.
I'm an early, early riser and go for a run everyday.   Well, it was our six month anniversary and I was out for my normal jog in the park, when who do I see in a horse drawn carriage, wearing a tux, and waiting for me halfway through my run?   Richard!   So I ran up to the carriage and asked him what was going on, and he put his finger to his lips and says, "shhhh."   So there I am in my jogging clothes, next to the most handsome mute in the world - have you seen him in a tux? - riding like a sweaty princess and smiling ear to ear.   Couple minutes later, we arrive at Tavern on the Green.   Best part, we're the only people in the place because Richard got them to open up early. Well, we go to our table, sit down, and just as the sun starts to peek above the trees, this beautiful man gets down on one knee, and says "I didn't want one more sunrise to go by without you knowing that you are the light of my life, and that I would be the luckiest man in the world if you would be my wife.   Margaret Mary Mills, will you marry me?" The group is silent, waiting for the clincher. MARGARET I said yes. The group gives a collective "ahh".   Grandma Annie takes both Margaret and Richard by the hand.
You are a good boy Richard, and you make me very proud.   I love you Richy.
I love you too, Grandma. Grandma hugs the couple.   Everyone smiles except Geoffrey and Gertrude.
So did this happen before or after the INS agent came sniffing around?
What is wrong with you?   I'm sorry Margaret. Margaret doesn't miss a beat.
Oh please.   I'd wonder too.   Honestly, my lawyers have been dealing with all of this. When you told us at the airport it was the first time I'd heard about it.   I'm so embarrassed.
Don't be, dear.   Geoffrey's just an ass. While Debbie apologizes, Margaret gives Richard a little wink that says "I've got this under control".   The moment is interrupted when Richard pulls out a RINGING CELL PHONE.   He takes a step back and answers quietly so no one can hear.
Margaret Mill's phone.  One second please. Richard comes back to the group and hands Margaret the phone. RICHARD It's our friend, Frank. Richard's tone let's Margaret know there's a problem.
Excuse me, I'll just be a second. Margaret takes the phone and exits out French glass doors that lead to the backyard.   She leaves the door open, and doesn't notice Balzac follow her outside.
Don't be a cliche, Frank.   Don't be the wishy washy writer who changes his mind every two seconds. Margaret notices Balzac, but ignores him.   The dog starts YAPPING to get attention.   She walks away, but Balzac continues barking. Annoyed, she gets down face to face with the puppy and puts the phone against her chest so Frank doesn't hear. MARGARET  Sit and be quiet! Balzac sits and pouts.   Margaret walks away and puts the phone back to her ear.
I fired Bob because he didn't have your best interest in mind.   Our job is to help you succeed.   He wasn't doing that. Margaret continues to listen to her writer whine, when she notices an EAGLE soaring in circles above her and Balzac.   Not sure what to think, she looks back at Balzac and sees him peacefully sit in the grass. She then looks up and sees that the eagle is gone.   Margaret shakes her head, looks back at Balzac when -- WHOOSH!   The eagle snatches Balzac by the scruff of the neck, and takes off.   Margaret jumps. There is no one to help, so she chases after the dog and eagle. She stays calm on the phone. MARGARET Could you hold on just a second? With no other option, Margaret throws her cell phone and hits the eagle suspended 20 feet above her.   The eagle drops Balzac and Margaret catches him.   Balzac looks frightened. Tucking Balzac away like a furry football, she runs to her phone and picks it up. MARGARET
Take the dog!   Take the dog!
Where's Margaret?   We need to go.
Go where?
It's a surprise.   Girls are going into town. And the boys stay here.   I told you, we've planned everything.
Um.   She's outside. Debbie and Richard turn around and look out a picture window. They see Margaret running with Balzac above her head.
Oh that's sweet, she's playing with my Balzac.
This is a delicious dog, Mr. Eagle.   C'mon, bring back the phone. Richard calls out from the house.
What are you doing?
The eagle took my phone!
Are you drunk?
Your dad was right!   The eagle tried to take the dog, so I saved it, then it came back and took my phone.
Did the dingo eat your baby, too?
Frank's going to call me on that phone.   I need it!
Relax.   I've got your information backed up on the laptop.   I'll just get you a new phone and switch the number.   No problem.
Oh.
Now come on.   You're going somewhere with my mom and the girls.
I'm not going anywhere.
You want a new phone?   You're going.
Work it Hank!
Is that a salmon down your pants? The room laughs as Hank works his crotch millimeters away from Margaret's face.   Margaret remains straight faced.
Definitely not a salmon. The women encourage Hank on as he moves Margaret's hands to his wiggling ass and gives her a feel.   She can't help but give and embarrassed smile.   Finally, the song ends and Hank goes into the splits.   Thrilled, the room gives him a standing ovation. Margaret plays along and gives Hank a kiss on the cheek.   She begins to get off the stage, but Hank takes her by the hand.
Ah, ah, ah.   I was just the warm up. Hank sits Margaret down, and blindfolds her with a scarf.
What's going on?
Just sit there dear.
Don't be shy ladies, tip well and often, show Hank how much you appreciate his assets!   And now... Ramone! The room goes silent as a middle aged RAMONE comes on to the stage.   He has a pot belly, threadbare thong and a thin mustache. Ramone's dance has a Latin theme to it, and he's very good at it. Margaret is oblivious.
What's that smell? Margaret finally takes off her blindfold, and finds Ramone about an inch away from her face. MARGARET  Ahhh!!! Margaret falls out of her chair and her scream frightens Ramone. After the initial scare he composes himself and wags his finger at her naughty behavior.
You are a naughty devil. Ramone goes to work another part of the stage, and when he turns, Margaret jumps off the stage and joins the ladies.
Good lord.
Ramone was the only male dancer on the island for years. No one has the heart to tell him to hang it up.
Want me to do it?
Thank you dear, but let's keep it our secret.
...yeah, Debbie found these eco-balls that dissolve in the water.
How does she come up with this shit?
She just does.   I stopped trying to figure out how. Geoffrey and Mr. Maguire see Richard coming their way.   Mr. Maguire yells at Richard like the old family friend he is.
Why's that, Mr. Maguire?
You fly up here and don't call me?
Sorry bout that.
What good is me owning an airline if I can't give you free tickets?
You're right.   Don't know what I was thinking...
Damn, straight.   Don't let it happen again!  Here, you take over.   This game is for pussies, I'm getting a drink. Mr. Maguire leaves, and Richard and Geoffrey are left alone with one another for the first time.   Things are awkward between father and son, and Richard begins hitting balls to avoid conversation.   Geoffrey finally makes small talk.
Maguire's stepping down in January.   He's, uh, handing things over to Matty. Richard gives his dad a look.   He knows where this is going.
That's great for them.
So.   How's work with you?
Good.   Busy.   You know.
I do.   I do.   Hey, did I tell you that we're opening a little office in Japan?
Congratulations.
We're not just a mom and pop operation anymore.   We're going global.
Uh-huh. Geoffrey stops hitting golf balls for a second.   He's been thinking about this moment for a long time.
I could really use your help.
Dad.   Please.   I'm in New York.   Margaret's in New York.   We have jobs.
I know.   I know.   It's just...
You're only a secretary. This pisses Richard off immediately.
Again with the secretary thing!   I've told you, I'm an assistant!
Just because you call yourself an "assistant" doesn't mean you're not really just a secretary.
Well if I'm "just a secretary", why would you want me up here anyway?   Sounds like you're doing great without me.
It's not like that and you know it.
Then how is it?   Explain it to me. Geoffrey looks around to see if anyone is listening.
Last week, a man stuck his finger up my butt...
This man was a doctor?
...and it got me thinking about you.
I'm not sure this is coming out right.
Just shut up for a second, okay?   I want you to have what I built.   But I'm running out of time to show you things.
Stop being so dramatic.
I'm not being...  I need you to stop dicking around down there and get serious.
So this is all about what you want?
That's not what I said.
And me in New York with Margaret?   That isn't serious?
One day the woman is the Antichrist, and the next day she's the love of your life?   How is that serious?
Things change, dad.
Things change.
Things change?
Yes.   Things change.
Things change.   That's your explanation? Know what I think?   I think you banged your boss and fell in love, that's what I think. Some sorta mommy complex.
Nice, dad.   We gotta have these Cosby moments more often.   This is great. Richard drops his club and walks back to the house.
They can be a little overwhelming, but they're great people.
What?   I'm just working on my tan.  It's been a long day. Margaret looks inside and sees that the party is still raging.
Around the solstice they don't watch the clock.   Pretty much party til they fall over.
I actually missed it when I was in the states.
Chicago, right?
Yeah.   Since college.
And now you're back?
Six months now.   Call me crazy, but I love it.   Think I'm back for good.
Really?   I don't know.   Don't you miss...
Neimans?   Starbucks?   Escalators? Margaret laughs.   She likes this woman. GERTRUDE Yeah.   I miss it.   Believe me, growing up I never thought I'd end up divorced and back here teaching at my old elementary school. That was always Richard's plan.
For you to get divorced?
 No.   I was going to teach, he was going to run his dad's business.   He was like a little old man.   Had it all worked out.
Are we talking about the same guy?
What do you mean?
Well, Richard's such a player. Gertrude looks confused. MARGARET I mean he was a total player.   Before we started dating.   Six months ago.
That surprises you?
Did he ever tell you why we broke up?
We don't really talk much about stuff like that.
Oh.   Well I should shut up...
No, no.   Please.   I mean, we are getting married.   I want to know these things. Gertrude looks down a little embarrassed.
He proposed to me.   When we were seniors. Margaret laughs.
I'm sorry.   I didn't mean to...   He proposed to you in high school?
He bought this sweet little ring, and got down on his knee.   It was so cute.
You must have...
... freaked out?   Oh you bet.   I broke up with him on the spot.
I would hope so.
After getting rejected the first time, I can't imagine how hard it was for him to get up the courage to ask you. Margaret just smiles, feeling guilty about lying when Gertrude is being so honest with her. GERTRUDE Anyway.   The idea that my little old man could be a player...   It's just not the Richard I knew.   Good thing you're making an honest man of him again.
Well I'm empty.   I'm going to go get another.   I think I hear Ramone wrapping up, let's get back to the girls.
I'll be right in. Margaret smiles and turns to the ocean.   Gertrude goes inside. Then, to herself, Margaret silently whispers. MARGARET We are awful people.
Excuse me?   I'm watching that.
Why is Richard chopping wood?
And don't play dumb.   What did you do? Geoffrey is uncomfortable answering in front of Margaret.
Nothing.   I didn't do anything... will you please move. The showdown intensifies.   Margaret excuses herself.
I am so tired. Balzac GROWLS when he hears Margaret's voice.   He's still mad. Margaret just smiles. MARGARET Think I'm going to take a shower and clean off Ramone's bubble gum body oil. Thanks for a great night. Annie and Debbie smile graciously and wish her good night.   Once she's gone, they turn their death stare back to Geoffrey.   He looks genuinely unnerved.
Stop looking at me like that!
Richard, is that you?
Richard, are you... Then out of nowhere, Balzac  startles Margaret.
Yap, yap, yap, yap, yap! Margaret slips on the wet floor and falls on her ass.   Her foot kicks the door open as she retreats from the vengeful puppy.
I'm sorry bout the eagle.   But I saved you. Balzac won't listen to reason and barks angrily.   Margaret grabs the ceramic top of the toilet tank to protect herself.
Aaaaahhhhhhhhhh!!!!!!!!!!!!!!                                        Aaaaahhhhhhhhhh!!!!!!!!!!!!!! The two quickly separate and spastically try to cover up.   A rapid fire back and forth ensues.
Why are you naked?                                                   Why are you wet?
Don't look at me!                                                    You tackled me!
It was the dog!                                                      You're blaming the dog again?
Will you just hand me a towel! Richard looks for a towel, but forgets he's naked.   When he looks under the bed, Margaret shrieks and covers her eyes.. MARGARET You're flashing brain! Richard quickly changes positions.   Out of desperation, he pulls the entire comforter off the bed.   He throws it Margaret's way, and she wraps herself in it.
You can cover up any time! Richard cups the beans and franks and backs up to his clothes by the window. MARGARET Explain yourself!
I didn't know you were home!   I was outside chopping wood!
You didn't hear me?
I had my iPod on!
I didn't jump you.  I didn't mean to jump you.   I didn't know you were here.
You didn't see me?
I was running from the dog! Richard looks at Margaret suspiciously.
Wait.   Were you tryin' to seduce me?
Oh please!   Don't flatter yourself.
Mmm-Hmmm.
Go take a shower.   You stink.
Fine.   But don't come sneaking in there. You're still my boss.   That'd be sexual harassment.
There you go, buddy.   Go on and play before she makes a coat out of you. Richard shuts the door and goes into the bathroom.   Without looking back, Richard gets the final shot. RICHARD Puppy hater.
Richard grabs all the pillows, cushions and blankets he can find to create himself makeshift bed on the floor. Margaret turns out the lights, leaving the room still bright with the sun still shining outside.   She gets into her bed.
I'm never gonna to get to sleep. Richard pushes a button and motorized metal blinds come down outside the window.   The sunlight is instantly blocked out and the room is pitch black. MARGARET Oh.   Well.   Thanks. Richard settles into his pathetic excuse for a bed.   The two silently lie awake and stare at the dark ceiling.
It was kinda weird seeing you naked.
Can we not talk about this?
I'm just saying.   It was weird.
It wasn't weird.
How was that not weird?
Because we're... like teammates.
We're like teammates?
We are teammates.   And teammates see each other naked in the locker room.   All the time.   It's not a big deal.
Well, if we're teammates can I sleep in the bed?
Good night, Richard. The two lay awake in silence for another beat.
Margaret?
Yes?
Don't take this the wrong way.
Okay...
You're a very beautiful woman. Margaret smiles with her head turned away from Richard.
Get some sleep Richard, big day tomorrow.
Yes.   Mr. Gilbertson?   My name is Geoffrey Paxton... Only the animal trophies that adorn Geoffrey's office hear the rest of the conversation.
Who is it?
It's me dear.   I made you two breakfast in bed.   Can I come in?
What the...
Come on in mom! Debbie enters with a tray of pastries, fruit and coffee. RICHARD Ah mom, you made your cinnamon rolls.
Well, it's your special day. Debbie smiles, puts down the tray on a bedside table and sits on the edge of the bed.   She is buzzing with excitement. DEBBIE You two need your energy, so eat up.   We've got your dress fitting, have to get the house ready, and then your wedding.
I gotta run into town to get Margaret a new phone.
Will you pick up some champagne while you're there?
No problem.
And don't be gone for too long.   Lots of work to be done!
You don't have to go to all this trouble. Really. Debbie sweetly looks back at Margaret.
Don't be silly.   This is the biggest day of your life.   You are coming into this family, and when it's family, it's no trouble.   If your parents were with us, they would do the exact same. Debbie leaves and Margaret smiles as the door closes.   Richard jumps out of bed and goes to the food.
 I wish she hadn't.   I mean she almost caught us.   Damn, that was close. Like a pig in shit, Richard continues to dig in and doesn't pay attention to Margaret.
You just take all this for granted?   Your family, this house... Richard takes another big bite and turns to Margaret.
 I'm sorry, what?   You gotta try these. Margaret looks at Richard with disgust.
Why are you doing this to them?
Huh?
Why am I here?   You didn't have to bring me here.
You made me bring you here!   You told me I
I didn't make you do anything.   You could of said no.
And what?   Start over at the bottom again? No way.
I get why a not rich person would do this. But you've got everything.   It doesn't make any sense.
Know what?   This is none of your business.
I wish it wasn't my business.   But unfortunately, it has become my business, because I made a deal with someone I thought I could trust. Richard stares at Margaret for a beat.   He's exasperated.
You wanna know why you're here?   I'll show you why you're here.
Fine.
We leave in a half hour.
I'll be ready in 20 minutes. Margaret angrily takes a bite of a cinnamon roll and slams it down on the plate.   She goes to her suitcase and looks for clothes.   A beat passes, and she comes back to the rolls. MARGARET These are really good. She takes a cinnamon roll and leaves.
Hey, Richard!   That the lucky lady?
Yes sir, it is!
 You look much younger than everyone says.
That's great to hear.
See ya on the line, Bek Bek.
Put this on.   I'll meet you outside.
But I don't...
Ah.   Put it on.
Is this really necessary?
You'll thank me later. Richard walks towards the warehouse.   Margaret follows in her
Why is he handcuffed to the machine?
So his hands don't go too far.   So he doesn't... Richard makes a chopping motion.   Margaret winces.
Nice. From the decapitator, fish are fed into the gut puller, where their bellies are slit and the intestines are pulled out. MARGARET You know, I shouldn't be here.   I was a vegetarian for six months in college. Richard leads Margaret to the end of slime line, where a long line of 20 workers give the fish a final cleaning before they are frozen.   With great speed, they take the fish from the gut puller line and clean out all the left over intestines.
There he is!   Big city boy come to show us how its done.
Ah, it's been a while.
C'mon.   Show her how we do it.
Okay, okay. Richard and Margaret go to the end of the line.   Richard expertly demonstrates with a knife. RICHARD You grab a fish, but be gentle, cause you don't want to bruise it.   Open her up, tilt the knife, and then pull with the grain of the fish.   Two quick stokes to clear the organs attached to the spine.
Then use the tip of the knife to squeeze the blood out of the vein.   Then send her down the line. Richard guts another fish with precision and speed before offering a knife to Margaret. RICHARD Wanna try it? Margaret doesn't say anything.   All the other workers watch. RICHARD If it's too gross for you...
Gimme that. Up to the challenge, she takes the knife and grabs a fish. Margaret puts the knife in and keeps as much distance as possible between her and the salmon.
I did this for five summers.   Dad wanted me to earn my stripes before I took over.
Is that why you're still pissed at him?
Nah, I loved it here.
 You loved this?
The slime line?   Hell no.   Nobody loves the slime line.   I loved this place.   The people.   Growing up, running this place was all I wanted. Margaret scrapes a huge glop of guts out of a fish.
I wanted to run this place. It was comfortable here.   It was what I knew.  Don't forget the spine.
I wasn't gonna forget. Margaret squeezes the blood out of the vein, sends the fish on its way, and grabs another fish with more confidence.
But then things changed.   And it wasn't so comfortable anymore.
What kind of things changed?
Stuff.
 You mean, like, Gertrude?
Yeah... Richard stops, he can tell Margaret knows something. RICHARD Oh my god.   She told you didn't she?
About the... you know.
The creepy teenage proposal?
Ah, shit!
You were a freak by the way.
OK, get it all out.
And she was right to break up with you.
You done? Margaret nods yes.
I know now that it was the right thing, but it screwed me up for a little while.
For a little while?   Don't sell yourself short.
When Gert crushed my heart into little pieces, a life up here didn't seem so great anymore.
So you moved to the open arms of New York City?
At first it was about getting as far away from this place as possible, but then I fell in love with it.
With scheduling my pilates?
With editing.   See, as an only kid I'd always read a lot, but until I worked for you I didn't love it.   I mean, when I realized that we could find the next Cuckoo's Nest, or Catch 22, or...
 ...To Kill a Mockingbird.   It's all about To Kill a Mockingbird.
Exactly!   We could find the next To Kill a Mockingbird.   God damn, how great is that? Margaret smiles.   She never knew that Richard had this kind of passion for the job. RICHARD So when I tell my folks that I want to spend my life finding books?   My dad goes ape shit.                                                             "How dare you forsake your family... you'll come crawling back to us... you're nothing without our help."   I left that night and we didn't talk for a year. Haven't been back here since.
So we're "getting married" so you can give daddy the finger?
No. Margaret gives Richard a disbelieving look. RICHARD Sorta.   OK, Yes.   Coming back here with you...   I get the promotion and I get to show off.   You're editor in chief.   You make a good prop.
So now you know I'm a petty asshole.   Am I trustworthy again?
Oh yeah, we're good.   By the way, you're more screwed up than I am, Paxton.
Yeah.   Thanks.
One more question...
Yes, everyone at work thinks you're a lesbian.
That wasn't my question.
I know.   Just lashing out. Margaret smiles.
Can we stop gutting fish?   I need my phone.
Hey Ramone.
Hey Richard.   Hola mi amo. Margaret recognizes Ramone, the male dancer from last night.
He was my shop teacher.
Of course he was.   How many people are on this island? They start to fill their cart with cases of champagne.
Like eight thousand?   Depends on the time of the year.
Feels smaller. With the cart full they head to the checkout.
 You got the phone I called about?
Charged up, ready to go, number changed. Ramone throws Richard a phone.
Thanks, Ramone.
No problem. Ramone gives Margaret a flirty wave.   She awkwardly waves back. Richard pushes the cart out the front door and does not pay. Margaret is confused.
Why's Ramone letting you steal his stuff?
It's our stuff.
That must have been handy in High School.
You have no idea.
Should you leave the cart?
It's our cart.   I didn't know you were such a prude.
I've come to realize that being my assistant gave you more access to my life than I ever imagined, but there are a few things you don't know about me.
I doubt it.   When I started, you were still wearing those Ugg boot things.
 I told you never to talk about that.
I'm just saying it's been a long time.   I know it all. Margaret turns on her new phone.   It searches for a signal.
 Did you know I took disco lessons in the sixth grade?
Where?
The Y.
Margaret 1, Richard 0.
Uh, my first concert was Kool and the Gang.
At Woodstock?
I won tickets on the radio and saw them at the fair.
What'd they sing again?
You know.
You had a lot of soul there, Canada.
I really like "The O.C.".   Not fake, ha, ha isn't it funny I like this trash.   I really like it.
Wow.   I'm getting shut out here.
Allergic to pine nuts.
Knew that.
Afraid of penguins.
Huh.
Haven't slept with a man in a year and a half.
Holy shit!   You are a lesbian! A MOTHER walking by with her 7 year old gives Richard a nasty look. RICHARD  My bad. The mother walks on.   Margaret is mortified and walks faster.
Kool and the Gang gets nothing, but that gets a Holy shit?   I've been busy!
That's a really long time.
That hurts coming from Mr. Magic Pants.
I knew it had been slow going, but I figured there was a booty call in there somewhere.
Yeah, well, I'm not good at that.
I find that hard to believe.
No, not that.   I'm great at that.   Aces. Top notch.
I'll have to take your word for it.
Yes.   You will.
How, exactly, do you define top notch? Margaret is smiling as she listens to a message on her phone.   In an instant, she's all business.
I need a computer and the internet.   Now.
Aye lassie, welcome to the cyber seas.   Our T-1 line is faster than a clipper ship in a hurricane, but for now ye be needing to scrawl your mark on this sign up sheet. Margaret looks and sees that all the computers are taken.
No, no, no.   I need on now.   I've got a Booker prize winning author demanding I send him an e-mail in the next forty five minutes explaining why he should stay with a publishing house that "makes" him do publicity. The Pirate looks at Margaret like she's speaking Chinese.
Arrgh...
Listen to me asshole... The Pirate looks around to make sure his boss can't hear.
Look lady.   You gonna put your name down on the list or not? Margaret is about to throttle the Pirate, when Richard pulls her back.
C'mon.   I got an idea. Richard leads Margaret to the door.   As they are leaving Margaret shouts out.
I didn't know there were a lot of pirates in Alaska!
I'm so excited about the wedding!
Thanks for letting us use your computer.
No problem.  So what flowers are you going with? Margaret turns around annoyed, but manages to keep her cool.
I'm sorry, but could I have a minute alone
Oh.   Sure.
Show me around will you Mrs. Whiting?   It's been years.
Do you think she'll be long?   I've got work to do.
She'll be out of there in two shakes. Out of the corner of his eye, Richard catches Gertrude teaching a class of second graders.   He stops transfixed.
 We are so lucky to have her.   Mr. Megher really left us shorthanded when he ran off in the middle of the school year.   He's living out in the forest now with his wolves.   Full time. Richard hasn't heard anything that Mrs. Whiting has said.   He's hypnotized by Gertrude.   She looks happy teaching these kids, and they hang on her every word. MRS. WHITING Will you excuse me?   The bell is about to ring, I need to get ready for recess.
 Uh, sure. Mrs. Whiting leaves.   Richard goes to the door and Gertrude sees him.   Good lord can that woman smile.   She waves him in.
Class, this is my old friend Richard.
 Hi Richard!
Richard and I used to be in this very same classroom together.   We even had your old teacher, Mr. Megher.
Mr. Megher smelled like farty eggs! The class giggles.
That's not a nice thing to say, Patrick. The BELL RINGS.   One girl gets up.   Gertrude eyeballs her. GERTRUDE Marcia?
Sorry. The child sits back down.   Gertrude waits a beat.
OK, everyone is excused for recess. All the kids pop up and head to the door.   Mrs. Whiting directs traffic outside.   Richard makes his way to Gertrude.
Patrick's right.   He did smell like eggs.
It's still not a nice thing to say.   And actually, Mr. Megher smelled like wet dog and...  ...Matanuska Thunderfuck.   But let's keep that between us.
Remember when Mr. Megher made us do this after school for a week?
That was your fault.
Was not!
You tried to kiss me.   A girl has to defend herself.
C'mon!  I had the shot.   I took it. Gertrude rolls her eyes.   She's heard this a hundred times.
No Top Gun.   Please.
What?   You loved my Top Gun.
No.   You loved your Top Gun.   I just smiled and laughed like a good girlfriend.
That's right.   Ice... man.   I am dangerous. Richard clicks his teeth together, trying to mimic Tom Cruise. Gertrude is not impressed.
That cuts deep.   I'll have you know that
 Uh, is something wrong?
No.   Nothing's wrong.
It's been awhile, but I can still tell when something's wrong with you. Gertrude doesn't want to say anything. RICHARD What is it?   You know I hate it when you get all quiet.
I wish there was a better way to say this.
Better way to say what?
I made a huge mistake.   With you.   Breaking up with you.   I'm sorry.
Are you apologizing for high school?
Yes.
Oh, thank God.   I thought this was like, something big.
This is something big.
I coulda used this about five years ago, but I'm all good now, promise.   Thank you for saying that, though. Gertrude sees that Richard isn't getting her point.   She pulls herself together.
I think...  I want you back.
 Oh God, he's making me say it again.  I want you back.   Like... we should be together.   All the time.
Whoa, whoa, whoa.   Rewind.
I know this isn't the best time to bring this up.
I'm not talking about dating!   You should move back here.   We can have the life you always talked about in High School.   I'm ready for that now.
Why are you doing this?
I know that the timing here sucks.   But we are meant to be together.   I know it.   I think you know it too...
No, I don't.   I don't know it. Richard begins to pace.   Not sure what to say.   Every time he opens his mouth, he can't find the words. Then, from the door, an interruption.
Hey guys. Holy shit.   Did Margaret hear anything?   Her face gives nothing away.   Gertrude and Richard act like nothing just happened, but look guilty as hell.
Oh.   Hey Margaret.
Uh, you all done?
Yeah.   We'll see what he says.
Great.   Great.
You ready to get back to the house?
Uh.   Yeah.   Uh-huh.
Well let's go.   See you at the wedding, Gertrude. Gertrude just smiles.
Yeah.   See you at the wedding.
So, what did you and Gertrude talk about? Richard lies.
Nothing.   About her school.   The kids and stuff.   Apparently my second grade teacher was a pot head.
That was it?   I was gone for awhile...
 Yeah.   That was it.   You know, I can do this.   You should really go try on the dress for my mom.
I was going to go for a run first, it's been three days since I got out, I'm feeling crazy.
 Whatever. Margaret isn't accustomed to Richard talking to her this way, but doesn't push it.
What now? Margaret follows the smoke, and hears a mysterious DRUMBEAT.   She soon discovers a tremendous bonfire by the water, and a SHAMAN dancing around it.   He is dressed in a loin cloth, and wears a carved bear's head mask and tribal make up.   His belly shakes as he spastically moves around the fire. The Shaman sings a song that sounds centuries old.
Yai...takuju magaluam Ut uksu lingm ik pifiksailiriju m 1k tuakjuk qangani takujumagaluam Ut qangalan uarm. Margaret hides behind a tree and stares at this man in a trance. He begins to yell at the fire and scream at the top of his lungs. Exhausted, he stops and catches his breath.   He yells out again. SHAMAN Margaret, welcome! She looks around.   Maybe another Margaret is in the vicinity. SHAMAN Come to me, Margaret of New York. Nope, that's her.   She carefully steps out into the clearing. SHAMAN It is I, father Paxton. Sure enough, Geoffrey is beneath all the make-up.
What, ah, are you doing?
My shaman Kevin told me to get out here and clear my head.   As you know, things have been a little crazy around here.   You should join me.
Ya know, I've got to get back.
You closed minded southerners amuse me. Never willing to leave the nest and try
I'm a big fan of the nest. Geoffrey throws sand into the fire and it blazes higher.
Dance with me!   You besmirch my ways if you deny my circle. Worried she's going to really piss him off, Margaret relents.
OK, OK.   I "accept your circle." Geoffrey smiles and throws more sand into the fire.
Clear your mind and follow me. Geoffrey begins dancing slowly, contorting his body.   Margaret follows, always a half step behind, and can't get into it.   After a few moments, Margaret stops.
I'm gonna head back.
We're not done.
I think I am. Margaret begins to leave.   Geoffrey calls after her.
Margaret? Margaret stops and turns around. GEOFFREY I'm sorry we got off on the wrong foot.   But I'm making an effort here.   Don't leave now. Much to her chagrin, Margaret stays.   Geoffrey is pleased. GEOFFREY Thank you.  Yai...takuju magaluam Ut uksu lingm ik pifiksailiriju m 1k... Geoffrey throws more sand on the fire to make it go higher and speeds up the dance.   Margaret is getting better, but it is still painfully awkward.
...tuakjuk qangani takujumagaluam Ut qangalan uarm. Geoffrey speeds up the dance. GEOFFREY Now you.
Me what?
Chant.
Chant what?
Whatever comes out, just chant.   It is the way.   You'll feel better.
I can't...
Close your eyes.   Chant. Margaret and Geoffrey keep dancing.   Margaret closes her eyes, but can't figure out what to say. GEOFFREY Chant!
I don't know any chants!
Chant!
Chant! The drum beat continues.
...to the wall... More sand.   More fire. MARGARET ...to sweat drop down my balls... Geoffrey stops dancing.   What did she say? MARGARET ...to all these bitches crawl... Margaret's eyes are closed, she doesn't realize that she's broken out into a Lil John song.   She continues to dance. MARGARET ...To all skee skee motherfucker... Geoffrey takes the bear head mask off. MARGARET ...all skee skee got damn... From the trees, the moment is broken when Debbie shouts out.
Geoffrey! Margaret stops chanting Lil John.
Oh Debbie, I didn't do anything. Margaret sees Debbie and Grandma Annie in the clearing.
Is she singing about balls?
He told me I had to chant!
Oh, you poor dear.   Geoffrey, you can't do this!  He's an eighth Tlingit, dear.
He does this to keep in touch with "his people".
Don't make fun of my heritage!   And it was helping.   Don't you feel better?   I feel better.
Come on sweetie, we need to get you cleaned up.   You've got a dress to try on.   And Geoffrey, put that fire out and come in and help us with this wedding. Geoffrey turns off the boom box that was hidden in the trees and the drum beat stops.
Fine. With a fire extinguisher, the bonfire comes to an end.
I am so excited.   Aren't you excited?
This was my dress from 1929.   My mother made it by hand.   Amazing how things come back into style.   How does it fit? Margaret speaks through the door.
Just buttoning up here.
Drum roll! Grandma and Debbie enthusiastically make drum roll sounds. Margaret opens the door and smiles.   She's unsure of herself, but looks fantastic.   The dress fits great, except... GRANDMA ANNIE Your boobs are bigger than mine ever were.
Yeah, it's a little snug.
Come over here. Debbie leads Margaret to a mirror.   Grandma Annie follows.
 You're so beautiful, and such a great match for my Richard.   I know I've just met you, but a mother can tell.   When he looks at you, I can tell he's in love.   I'm so happy I get to share your day.
Debbie, please.   We've got work to do.
You're right. Debbie collects herself, then starts crying again.
You go work downstairs, I'll finish this. Debbie tries to calm down, but can't. GRANDMA ANNIE Go! Debbie nods in agreement.   Smiling from ear to ear, she leaves in tears.   Margaret and Annie watch her go. GRANDMA ANNIE Had to get rid of her before I gave you this.   Don't think she woulda recovered. Grandma Annie comes from behind and puts her arms around Margaret's neck.   When she is done, a stunning blue necklace lays on Margaret's neck. GRANDMA ANNIE You needed something blue.   It's silly, but I didn't want to take any chances.
It's beautiful.
It's hematite.   Alaska diamonds.   The blue ones like this are very rare.   My great grandfather gave it to my great grandmother when they were married.   They were quite a scandal, you know.   He was Russian and she was Tlingit.
Back then, you had to get approval from every person in the tribe before you got married.   It almost broke them up.
How'd they stay together?
Don't know.   But I'm sure happy they did, none of us would be here if they hadn't. Grandma and Margaret admire the necklace in the mirror. GRANDMA ANNIE I want you to have it. This is awful news for Margaret.   She might as well be stealing from Annie.
No, no, no.   I can't.   Really.
I don't want to hear it.   It's yours. Grandmothers like to give their stuff away to their grandchildren.   Makes us feel like we'll always be a part of your life, even after we're gone. Take it. Margaret puts her hand to the necklace, and for the first time feels like a complete and total fraud. GRANDMA ANNIE Are you feeling all right, dear? Margaret doesn't speak.   Annie patiently waits for her reply.
Well.   Thing is... Margaret deliberates spilling her guts to Annie, but can't. MARGARET ...the dress is just a little tight.
Oh, don't worry about that.   We've got these seams by the arm, this'll be easy. Annie marks up the dress with tailor's chalk. GRANDMA ANNIE We can fix this no problem. Margaret smiles, but knows that Annie couldn't be more wrong.
We need to talk.
I'm a little busy.
Well I'm freaking out.   I need to get away from here.   From everyone.   Now.
Go for another run.
No!   I did that.   It did not help.
I'm a little tired of you making demands and me just jumping...
 We're not going to need any of this if I don't get out of here.
OK, high maintenance.   Let's go.
Move over, I'm driving. Margaret cuts in front of Richard and grabs the wheel.
You don't know where we're going. Margaret opens up the throttle and they are off.
It doesn't matter.
Where are we?
The north pole.   Congratulations, we made it.  It's a glacier.   Tracy's Arm.   You better let me take it from here.
I'm fine.
Oh.   OK.   So like me, you've navigated a lot of glacier fields?   And not died? Margaret reluctantly moves aside and lets Richard steer. RICHARD Lady, you've got issues.
Yeah.   I'm a control freak.   Fine.
It doesn't stop there.
This coming from the sociopath.
Oh, please.
I'd never bring me here.
You drove!
I mean to Alaska.
Are you kidding me? Richard pulls next to the glacier and turns off the engine.
You're sick.   Doing this to them.
I explained to you...
They love you.   Do you get that?
Of course.
And you're still willing to lie to them?
Like you didn't know.
Didn't know what?
That we were going to lie to them.
I didn't know!
Well that makes you either stupid, or ignorant.
You think I'm stupid?
No, but what's behind door number two...
Forgot what?
What it was like!
What what was like?
To have a family!   I forgot what it was like to have a family.   I've been on my own since I was thirteen, and I'd forgot what it was like to have people that love you, and make you breakfast, and give you necklaces...
I'm going to take a walk.
We need to head back...
Alone.   I need alone time.
What? Margaret looks at Richard with a scared and confused look.
I'm, uh, about to lose my shit.   Big time. I need a second.
But...
 Margaret!
No talking!
 Watch your step, OK?   It can be dangerous.
Again, you're not supposed to be... Margaret doesn't finish her sentence.
 Margaret? Richard turns around and looks for Margaret.   He doesn't see her. He gets out of the boat and goes onto the glacier, walking in the direction he last saw Margaret. RICHARD Margaret?   I know I'm breaking "the rules" here, but where are you? He takes one more step before he hears...
I'm sorry.   I'm sorry.   Just relax.   I'll get you out of there.   You've broken through an ice bridge.   It happens all the time.   No biggie.
Don't do that.
Don't do what?
The thing that doctors do in E.R. when they tell the gunshot victim who is bleeding to death that they're going to be OK.   Don't do that!
It's not like that.   Really.   We do need to be careful here though, I don't want us both to fall in.   Stay still, OK?
Uh-huh. Richard is ten feet away from Margaret now.   He's checking the ice to see if it is stable.   He slowly walks her way.
So, I'm going to walk up to you and very slowly pull you out.   OK?
I'm really cold.
Yeah, that's normal when you're surrounded by ice.
EMPTY_LINE
Richard stands over a stuck Margaret, whose head just comes up to his knee.   He calmly looks down on her.
So I'm going to pull you up by your armpits. I'm probably going to touch boob.   But don't freak out. Margaret shakes her head yes.   Richard reaches down and slowly lifts her out of the ice.   Margaret doesn't say a word. RICHARD When I get you all the way out, I need you to hold onto me.   I'm going to carry you over there. Margaret nods yes as she puts her arms around Richard.   He's strong, so it isn't difficult for him to slowly carry her "over the threshold" style, away from the hole in the ice.   He speaks once they're safe.
I've, uh, never done that before.
You said it was "no biggie".
Yeah.   Well.   You OK?
Yeah.   I'm fine. Richard smiles.   Margaret smiles back. Richard walks very comfortably with her in his arms.   She fits just right.   Margaret looks up to Richard gratefully. MARGARET
You woulda laughed at me.
Yeah.   While I was getting my camera. The two stare at each other for a beat.   There's a real spark. They might kiss.
Gertrude wants me back. Whoah.   Not what she was expecting.   She looks down.
And?
Well.   It seemed like you were having... second thoughts.
Yeah.   I was.
Maybe we should do it.   Come clean.
Put me down. Richard puts Margaret down near the boat.   She tries to regain her composure. MARGARET You wanna call it off?
If you do.
Fine.   It's over.   We'll tell them when we get back.
Come with me.
Where's mom, dad?   We all need to talk.
Not now.   C'mon. Richard and Margaret look at each other, not sure what to do. Geoffrey storms off and they follow.
 I haven't told your mother about any of this, and I don't plan to.  I was really beginning to like you.   Sorry about this. Geoffrey opens the door and goes inside.
Hey there kids.   Good to see ya!
 What did you do? Geoffrey doesn't answer.   He's not proud of himself. RICHARD  What did you do, dad?!
I called him yesterday.   He told me that you were lying, and that he was going to catch you.   That he was going to send you to prison.
 We made a deal and dad here flew me up.   Now you tell the truth, and get off scott free. It's like it never happened for you.
You made a deal with him?   On my behalf?
You were making a mistake...
That's none of your business.
It's fine.
The hell it is.   It is not fine!
Oh quack, quack, quack.   Just tell me what really happened, and I'll be on my way.   No one gets hurt, we all get what we want. Margaret takes Richard's hand.
It's OK.   Tell him.
 You do not get to make this decision.   This is my decision.  The truth is... I've been working for Margaret for three years.   Six months ago we started dating.   I recently asked her to marry me, and she said yes.   See you both at
What are you doing, Richard?
 Come on, we gotta get ready. Margaret and Richard storm out of the squash court.
What was I thinking?   They act like they're nice, but really, they're evil.
He's only doing it because he loves you.
Are you defending him?   Are you defending the king dick?
Just stop.   Think about this.
Oh, I've thought about it.   And know what I think?   I think you saved my life.   Thank you, Margaret.   Getting married to you is the best thing that's ever happened to me. Without this, I might've ended up back here. Up at the house, Debbie opens the door.
There you are!   You two almost gave me a heart attack.   C'mon, get dressed!
Coming mom!  Time to sack up. Richard winks and goes inside.   Margaret follows, not sure.
If I were one to brag, I'd say that dress is perfect.
Matches the shoes. Margaret pulls up the dress to reveal running sneakers.
Those'll be your best friend.   Wedding shoes stink.   You ready?
 Nice song. Richard shrugs his shoulders.
Is that your song, dear?
I guess so. Margaret and Annie stop at the end of the aisle.   Looking up, Margaret sees the justice of the peace, Ramone.                      (Yes, the same guy from the liquor store and the strip club.)
It's me, Ramone. Margaret gives Annie a kiss, and then turns to Richard.   They whisper while they walk up to Ramone.
You look gorgeous.
So, is this what you dreamed of when you were a little girl?
Oh, you bet. They make it to the Gazebo, where Ramone awaits. MARGARET Ramone.
And if there is anyone who has cause why this couple should not be united in marriage and love, they must speak now or forever hold their peace. Gilbertson stays quiet.   Geoffrey takes a tug from a flask. Ramone is about to continue, but something gets his attention. He's not sure what to do. RAMONE Mi amo, do you have a question? We reveal that Margaret has her hand halfway up, eyes squinted shut like the new kid in class not sure of herself.
No.
Then why is your hand up?
I have something to say.   It's not a question though.
Can it wait til after?
Uh.   Um.   No.
What are you doing? Margaret gathers herself and turns around to the crowd.     They stare back, unsure what to make of this foreigner.
Hey there, folks.   Thanks for coming out. I've got a little announcement to make about the "wedding."
Don't do this. Margaret smiles and squeezes Richard's hand.
Not sure the best way to tell you all this. But, uh... I made Richard marry me.   This is all a sham. Gilbertson victoriously pumps his fist in the air.
I was going to get kicked out of the country -- so I told Richard that I would destroy his career if he didn't marry me.
Now wait...
Richard.   Please.   Let me finish.  Richard wanted to stop this when we got off the plane, but I wouldn't let him.   Don't blame him.   This is all my fault.  Could you get the band started?   And give these people something to drink.  And you.   Meet me at your dingy in ten, you're taking me to the airport.
You got it! Margaret nods, hands Richard the bouquet, and confidently walks back up the aisle with all eyes on her.   She stops when she gets to Gertrude and leans down.
Take care of him.
Promise. Margaret walks back into the house.   Alone.
 Uh-huh.   Yeah.   That's great Frank.   Good news.   Talk to you on Monday. Margaret hangs up.
So Frank's back in? Margaret nods distractedly.   Getting Frank to do the publicity tour doesn't mean much right now.
Yup.   He's in.   For now.
Maybe this'll be your Mockingbird?
Yeah.   Right. Margaret starts collecting her bags.
Great exit back there.
Thanks.   Fun weekend.
Same old, same old, around here.
Wasn't sure if your mom would want me to strip the sheets, so I just left them.
I'll let her know.
It was getting too messy.   We weren't going to be able to keep it up.
Don't start lying to me now. Margaret stops for a moment.
I heard you and Gertrude at the school.   I think she meant what she said.   She's a great girl, you should stay.   It's the right thing.   You're perfect for each other.
But... but what about you?   What are you gonna do? Margaret wants to keep the conversation short.
Don't worry about me.   I'll survive.
So what?   This is it?
Yup.   This is it.
I want you to say the words.
I'm not doing great in the dignity department, can we not do this right now?
Say it. Margaret closes her eyes.   Hating that it's come to this.
I'll publish your book. Gilbertson smiles.
Now was that so hard?
So here's the deal.   I'm going to have a million questions for you tomorrow... Gertrude sits down next to Richard.
...but for now I thought we'd just sit here and drink beer.   OK? Richard nods.   Gertrude hands him a beer.
Thanks. Richard thanks her with a kiss on the cheek.   Then, realizing where and who he is with, he puts his beer down.   He turns to Gertrude again with a determined look, gives her a kiss on the lips, then follows it up with an even bigger kiss. When they finish, Gertrude is grinning, eyes closed. Richard looks worried.   Something is wrong.
You have been practicing.
Waddya mean?
Well.   Margaret told me that you, uh, turned into bit of a man whore down there. Richard looks down.   A bit ashamed.   Gertrude makes light. GERTRUDE You're gonna have to put that in check if you move back.   Cause me and Beth Cable are the only two real options up here... and I'll kick that bitch's ass. Richard gives her a polite smile.   He's not really in the mood to joke.   Gertrude notices. GERTRUDE So no jokes yet?   Too soon?
I'm sorry.   I'm just a little... confused.
That kiss didn't seem "confused." Richard takes a beat to collect himself.
You're amazing, Gert.   And I've thought about being with you for a long time.   A long time.   When you said those things at the school?   I've dreamed about hearing you say those things.
But as crazy as this seems.   I know now... that we're just not meant to be. Gertrude pulls back like she's been punched. RICHARD Thing is... when I said goodbye to Margaret? I felt sick.   For the three years we worked together, I wanted to be as far away from her as possible.   But now that she's gone? I'm just really... sad.   I want her with me. What is that? The question hangs in the air.
I don't know.
I think I have to find out.
Find out what?
If she feels the same way. Gertrude begins to tear up, but won't let herself cry.
Well.   OK then.   What's a girl gonna do?  I guess you want who you want. Gertrude gives a melancholy smile.
I'm so sorry.
Uh-huh. Richard gets up.
Are you OK?
I'm fine.   Really.   Go. Gertrude nods her approval and Richard runs off to the party.
What are you so God damn happy about?
What?   Oh.   Well, I'm, uh, going to see Margaret.
What?!
She violated you.   We should report her.
Who you gonna report her to, mom?
Oh my God.   He's got the Stockholm syndrome.
I don't have the Stockholm syndrome.   And she didn't violate me.
What is going on, Richard? Richard slows down and explains to his mom.
I'm sorry I lied to you.   That was an awful thing to do.   But it took this weekend for me to see how funny, and screwed up and perfect Margaret is for me.   I think she's... the one.
But you already thought she was the one.
No, I didn't.   Not until she left.
Really?   Does she think that too?
I don't know.   I've got to get to the airport to find out. Debbie doesn't say anything, then breaks into a smile.
 He's going to stop her from leaving!   At the airport!
But I gotta hurry.   Her plane leaves any second.   I might not make it.
 He's not sure he's going to make it!
Are you buying this horse shit?
Oh, Geoffrey!
I don't have time to explain this to you.
Well then make some god-damn time.   Cause I won't let you throw your life away for some woman.
I don't care.
Excuse me?
I don't care.   I love you and want you to understand.   But I'm not asking your permission here.   I'm doing this.
Oh, really? From behind them, Annie stands up and shouts.
Boys!   Stop it! Stop it!   Stop it! But suddenly, a look of panic flashes across Annie's face.   She grabs the table to steady herself, but pulls the table cloth, causing a loud crash.   Geoffrey and Richard run over.
Mom, are you OK?
I'm having a... I need to go to the hospital.   Fast.
 Is this another gay assistant? Margaret doesn't say anything and takes her seat.
Richard!   She has something she wants to say to us! Richard leans down, and joins Geoffrey and Annie.   Their three heads are very close together.   Annie speaks to them both through the oxygen mask.
Listen to me.   You two need to stop fighting.   You'll never see eye to eye, but you're family.   If this doesn't stop, one day you'll regret it.  Promise me you'll stand by Richard, even if you don't agree with him.
I... I promise.
And Richard.   Promise you'll work harder to be a part of this family.
I promise, Grandma.
OK, then. Annie closes her eyes.   She looks peaceful.   A moment passes.
ANNIE  I'm feeling much better.   I don't need to go to the hospital.   Take us to the airport, please. Richard and Geoffrey are confused.   Stunned even.
What... what is going on?  Did you fake a heart attack?
We didn't have time for your squabbling, and I knew a helicopter would be the quickest way to the airport.   It seemed like the best way.
The best way?
And remember, you two promised me that you're going get along.   I wasn't kidding about that.
 Larry Ferris!   Don't make me call your mother!
...I want my book launch to be special.   I'm thinking we throw a soiree at the Nevsky Monastery.   In St. Petersberg? Margaret stares at him blankly. MR. GILBERTSON  Where Dostoyevsky is buried?   Hello?   I thought you were a professional... Margaret closes her eyes to numb the pain.
Flight 1601, you're clear for takeoff.
Roger that, Chuck. The PHONE RINGS in the tower.   Chuck picks up.   Intercut as necessary, with Richard running on a cell phone.
Tower.   Talk to me.
Hey Chuck, it's Richard.
Hey man.   Heard about your lady bailing. How often does this happen to you?
Need you to do me a solid, brother.   I gotta see my girl and she's on that flight.   Could you stop it for me?
No can do brohan.   Need a good reason for the FAA holes.   Lose my jobby job if I delivered that favor.
Oh, c'mon Chuck!
...so next topic.   Celebrities.   Let's invite the Bill Clinton's and leave out the Paris Hilton's, OK? Gilbertson smiles as he looks out the window and sees the plane leave Sitka.
Well.   That's it.   Once she gets back to New York, it'll be like this never happened. Richard looks defeated.   Geoffrey sees how sad his son is, and takes a deep breath.
So, you know I think you shouldn't be with Margaret, right?
You've made that crystal clear.
Good.  Well, consider this me keeping my promise. Geoffrey pulls out his cell phone and hits a button.   He waits for an answer. GEOFFREY  Hey!   Maguire!   Yeah, yeah, yeah, her running out was something.   But that's what I'm calling about.   I've got a favor to ask you, bout one of your planes...
...you know those two hundred pages I took out?   I'm going to put them back... A flight attendant comes to Margaret and interrupts.
Ms. Mills?   Would you come with me? Margaret is excited to get away from Gilbertson.
Yes, of course. She unbuckles her seat belt, about to get out of her seat.
What's this about?
 There's someone on the radio for you. The flight attendant points to the Flight Attendant CB located at the front of the plane, outside the cockpit. FLIGHT ATTENDANT Uh, a Richard Paxton? Margaret shakes her head and re-buckles her seat belt.
Tell him I'm not here.
 I'm sorry.   She won't come talk to you.
Shit!   She's never going to pick up...
 Know what, home slice?   Cut this chica loose.   You remember Beth Cable?   She'd totally be into you... Suddenly, Richard has an idea.   He picks up the hand mic.
Excuse me Miss Flight Attendant, could you ask the captain to do me one more favor...
 Welcome to flight 1601 to Seattle, this is your captain.   We've reached our cruising altitude of 30,000 feet.   Flight time'll   be three hours and thirty minutes.   And Margaret?   Richard has something he'd like to say to you.
 Uh, hey Margaret.   And cause I'm on the loudspeaker, hey everyone on the plane. The other passengers look around to try and figure out who's Margaret.   Meanwhile, Margaret looks down and acts like she doesn't know either. RICHARD  This certainly isn't how I wanted to do this.   I mean, I'm not really into the whole baring your soul in front of strangers thing, but I figure it's now or never.   So here goes.
You're doing great, man. Richard pushes the button down on the hand mike.
I know you're used to being on your own. And that you're comfortable with your life the way it is.   And that in a million years you wouldn't have thought that we should be together.   I know, because I felt the exact same way.
 And you know what else I know?   I know that I'm tired of being alone.   And I think you're tired of being alone too.   So come on.   Talk to me.   Please. The Handsome Man turns to Margaret.
 Do you really feel like you're alone?
Oh, good lord.
 What the hell are you doing? Everyone in the tower smiles.   They're making progress.
We need to talk. (Intercut as necessary.   Margaret stands at the front of the plane with the passengers watching.)
About what?
Have you ever thought there might be a reason we've been together for the last three years?
As boss and assistant.
Things change, Margaret.
Yeah, things change.
Is that the best you got? Geoffrey hits Richard, as if to say "see, that's what I said." Richard composes himself.
Now, tell me the truth.   When you left, were you relieved or sad that we didn't have an excuse to be together anymore? Geoffrey gives Richard the thumbs up.   That was a good one.
What's your point?
Because I am sick that you left.   And if you feel sick too, then why shouldn't we just be together? Margaret goes to answer, but stops.   Richard is right.   She wants to go back.   Even the passengers on the plane can see it. Gilbertson panics.
Are you thinking about going back to him? Margaret doesn't answer. MR. GILBERTSON We have a deal!   You can't back out now! The flight attendant steps in, annoyed that Gilbertson is trying to break up Richard and Margaret.
Sir, you need to sit down.
I will do no such thing.
Sir, I'm ordering you to return to your seat. Other passengers yell "sit down asshole" at Gilbertson.
Who said that?
Sir, this is your third and final warning!
Listen sweetheart...  I'm a federal officer, so why don't you get me another cocktail and mind your own... BUZZ! ZAP!                                                            400,000 Volts of electricity surge through Gilbertson.   He twitches violently and crashes to the floor. Behind him, The Handsome Man holds a stun gun and a badge.
Well, I'm a federal Air Marshall.   And you're under arrest for disobeying a crew member, assault, and possible intoxication.
Sorry everybody, but protocol says we need to get this unruly passenger off the plane ASAP.   Sitka's the closest airport, so if it's OK with you, I'm gonna have the captain turn this bird around. There are wild cheers from the passengers.   Margaret blushes. HANDSOME MAN  Told you I was a romantic.
This wasn't supposed to happen. Richard looks Margaret in the eye.
But it did. Margaret looks down.   A little embarrassed.
I'm not the kind of girl who gets saved. Richard smiles, and without warning, Margaret grabs him, and plants a long, deep, and wet kiss on him. The long kiss is interrupted by the Handsome Man and Gilbertson.
Uh, sorry, but excuse us. The Handsome Man leads a handcuffed and still dazed Gilbertson down the steps.
 Hey!   Do you think getting arrested might affect you at work? Gilbertson has no retort.
Oh, and I'm not going to be able to publish your book after all.
So you are getting married this weekend?
That's all we ever wanted. Grandma Annie gives Margaret and Richard a big hug.   Debbie joins in.   Then Geoffrey.   Passengers cheer.
Debbie and Geoffrey cut a rug.   They've done this before.
And as everyone dances, we track up the tallest tree on the island, to an eagle's nest at the very top.   Inside the nest, three eaglets chirp along to the music, snuggled up to Margaret's phone.
