..here's Tony Blair, just 43 years old, arriving at the polling station of his constituency in Sedgefield.."
Have you voted yet, Mr Crawford?
And I don't mind telling you, it wasn't for Mr Blair.
Not a moderniser, then?
Certainly not. We're in danger of losing too much that's good about this country as it is.
"The only questions that still remain: how big will his landslide be? And how extensive, how sweeping will the modernisation programme be that he ushers in?"
Hmm.
I rather envy you being able to vote.  Not the actual ticking of the box, although, I suppose, it would be nice to experience that ONCE.  But the sheer joy of being partial.
Yes..
One forgets that as Sovereign, you are not entitled to vote.
No.
Still, you won't catch me feeling sorry for you. You might not be allowed to vote, Ma'am..  But it IS your Government.
Yes.
I suppose that is some consolation.
G'morning, Ma'am.
Shall I draw the curtains?
Did you stay up?
Yes, Ma'am.
And? Was it as expected..?
Yes, Ma'am. Mr Blair, by a landslide.
I see.
The Prime Minister is on his way, Ma'am.
To BE, Robin.  Prime Minister to BE.
He hasn't asked my permission yet.
He's a hard one to read, isn't he?
Yes. On the one hand his background is quite establishment. Father a Conservative. A public school education at Fettes, where he was tutored by the same man as the Prince of Wales.
Well, we'll try not to hold that against him.
On the other, his manifesto promises the most radical modernisation and shake-up of the Constitution in three hundred years.
Oh. Is he going to `modernise' us, do you think?
I wouldn't put it past him. He's married to a woman with known anti- Monarchist sympathies - you may remember her curtsey the first time you met. It could best be described as `shallow'.
I don't measure the depth of a curtsey, Robin. I leave that to my sister.
And I spoke to the Cabinet Secretary who said he was expecting the atmosphere at Downing Street to be very informal. Everyone on first name terms.  At the Prime Minister's insistence.
What? As in `Call me Tony?'
Yes.
Oh. I'm not sure I like the sound of that.  Have we sent him a protocol sheet?
Funny, I'm actually rather nervous.
hy? You've met her often enough before.
I know. But never one to one. And never as Prime Minister.
Remember, you're a man that's just been elected by the whole country. TONY Yes. But she's still, y'know..
The Queen.
When we reach the audience room, I will knock. We will not wait to be called, we will go straight inside. Standing by the door, we bow. From the neck. I will introduce you. The Queen will extend her hand, you go to her, bow again, then shake her hand.
Couple of other things. It's `Ma'am' as in ham, not Ma'am as in farm.
Yes..
And when you're in the Presence, at no point must you show your back.
The `Presence'?
Yes, Sir. That's what it's called, when you're in her Majesty's company.
Mr Blair, your Majesty.
ongratulations.
Thank you, Ma'am.
Your children must be very proud.
I hope so.
You've three, haven't you?
That's right.
How lovely. Such a blessing. Children.
So..Have we shown you how to start a nuclear war yet?
 No.
First thing we do, I believe. a beat) Then we take your passport and spend the rest of the time sending you around the world.
You obviously know my job better than I do.
Well, you are my tenth Prime Minister, Mr Blair. I'd like to think there weren't too many surprises left. My first was Winston Churchill. He sat in your chair, in frock coat and top hat, and was kind enough to give a shy young girl like me quite an education.
I can imagine.
ith time, one has hopefully added experience to that education, and a little wisdom - better enabling us to execute our constitutional responsibility.  To advise, guide and warn the government of the day.
Advice which I look forward to receiving.
ell, we will save that for our weekly meetings. a beat) Now, if there's nothing else, I believe we have some business to attend to..
Of course..
Your Majesty, the country has spoken...and I come now to ask your permiss..   E ELIZABETH  No, no, no. It's usual for ME to ask the questions.
Mr Blair, the people have elected you to be their leader. And so the duty falls on me, as your Sovereign, to ask you to become Prime Minister, and form a government in my name.
Generally, this is where you say `yes.'
`Yes'.
How nice to see you again, Mrs Blair.
You must be very proud.
Yes.
And exhausted, I imagine. Where will you be spending the summer?
France.
How lovely.
ou'll be in Balmoral, I expect.
Yes, I can hardly wait. Wonderful place.
My great, great grandmother said of it - "In Balmoral all seems to breathe freedom and peace and to make one forget the world and its sad turmoils."
Really..?
I'm afraid we're going to have to leave it there.
Not too short, was it? I gave him fifteen minutes.  One doesn't want to be rude.
 "Thank you so much for coming. Now bugger off."
I know. What was all that about?
Diana. Apparently she's got a new boyfriend.
Dodi Al-Fayed is the son of Egyptian millionaire Mohammed Al-Fayed, a man whom the English establishment has repeatedly denied a British passport..
The Princess and Mr Fayed were hugging and kissing in full view of the world's press yesterday..
..the couple then left for Paris. At one point, the Princess told gathered reporters to watch out. Her next move would really surprise them...
 ..the Princess of Wales and Dodi Fayed returned to Paris earlier today..
..where they visited a local jewellery shop where unconfirmed reports suggested Mr Fayed had been looking at engagement rings..
 ...they have now been inside the hotel for more than two hours. We believe they have been dining in a suite on the fifth floor..
We've just been told the Princess is about to come out of the hotel..
 Don't bother following. You won't catch us.
 Robin Janvrin.
What?
Right. I see.
I'm going to need to speak to her Majesty. Right away.
Tell Sir Guy I'd like everyone in. As soon as possible.
Ma'am?
Mr Janvrin is here to see you..
Oh..
What the..?
Good evening, Ma'am. I'm sorry to disturb..
've just had a call from our Embassy in Paris. It's...the Princess of Wales.
Why? What's she done now?
What? How badly?
I see. Who are we speaking to there?
Right. shell-shocked) Keep me posted.
It's Diana. She's been in a car accident. In Paris.
Is it serious?
Apparently Dodi Fayed is dead.
What?
Let's just re-cap on what's happened.
What was she doing in Paris?
ou know what she's like.
It's quite awful... (wants to console CHARLES but finds it easier to say..) What are you going to do about the boys?
Let them sleep until we know more.
Yes that's sensible.
I should go to Paris. I told my people to start organising a jet.
What? A private one?
Yes.
Isn't that precisely the sort of extravagance they attack us for?
ell, how else am I going to get to Paris at this time of night? The airport at Aberdeen will be closed.
You can use the Royal Flight. They keep one of the planes on permanent stand-by. deadpans) In case I kick the bucket.
Out of the question. It's not a matter of State.
What are you talking about?
Diana is no longer an HRH, nor a member of the Royal Family. This is a private matter.
She's mother to your grandchildren.
That's the latest?
I don't know. I can't hear..  Everyone's shouting!
..behind me, is the tunnel of the Pont de l'Alma, which you reach by the expressway along the Seine. It was along here that the Mercedes carrying the Princess..
The Ambassador, in Paris.
Good evening, Sir.
Right. ashen-faced) I see.
I've just spoken to our Ambassador in Paris, Ma'am.
I'm afraid it's not good news.
No!
No, no, no, no..!
We have just had confirmation, that Diana, Princess of Wales.. voice cracks) ..has died in Paris.
"I'm afraid we have some bad news to report.."
"Diana, Princess of Wales, is dead."
What have I got on this week?
You're writing your maiden Conference speech as Prime Minister.
Well, let's cancel everything else. This is going to be massive. a beat) I'd better make a statement in the morning.
You'll be pleased to know I've already started coming up with ideas.
God, she's only been dead an hour!
Would you prefer I didn't do my job?
They're going to go back to sleep. (clears his throat, speaks with difficulty) Well, try anyway.
 My Private Secretary's office has found a travel agency open in New York that will sell me a flight to Paris with an hour's stop over in Manchester.
Perhaps now you might consider whether it's still an extravagance to bring back the mother of the future King of England in one of our planes?
 All right.
 I don't want the boys to see the news and get upset. First thing tomorrow morning, I want the radio taken out of their bedroom, and the television taken out of the nursery.
Well, well, well.
Ye-es.
Are you all right?
Your sister called about an hour ago. From Tuscany.
hope you told her to come back? Cut the holiday short?
I did.
an't imagine she was pleased.
That's putting it mildly.
What did she say?
Something about Diana managing to be even more annoying dead than alive.
Just make sure the boys never hear you talk like that.
Of course.
Something to help you go down?
No. I'm going to do my diary a little longer.
Fine. I'll sleep next door.
"..that's how she will remain. In our minds, our hearts, forever."  OK, got it.
Where will you do it?
I thought at church. On the way in.
...this is not a time for recriminations, however I would say that I always believed that the press would kill her in the end. 
But even I could not imagine that they would take such a direct hand in her death as seems to be the case. It would appear that every proprietor and editor of every publication that has paid for intrusive and exploitative photographs of her has blood on his hands today...
Not the press, mate. You've got the wrong villain.
I've got to go.
You about to speak to the Queen?
Yes.
Ask her if SHE greased the brakes.
Now, now..
I'm sorry to disturb, Ma'am, but I've the Prime Minister, for you. From his constituency.
 Lucky you.
Thank you, Robin. I'll take it next door. he QUEEN gets to her feet and walks out into..
Good morning, Prime Minister.
Good morning, your Majesty. May I say right away how very sorry I am - and that the thoughts and prayers of my family are with you at this terrible time and with the two princes in particular.
Thank you.
Is it your intention to make some kind of appearance. Or statement?
Certainly not.
No member of the Royal family will speak publicly about this. It is a private matter and we would all appreciate it if it could be respected as such.
I see.
I don't suppose anyone has had time to think about the funeral yet?
We've spoken to the Spencer family, and it's their wish..  ..their express wish, that it should be a private funeral. With a memorial service to follow in a month, or so.
Right.
Given that Diana was no longer a member of the Royal Family we have no choice but to respect their wishes.
I see.
You don't feel that in view of her high profile and popularity.. choosing his words carefully) ...it might be an idea to pay tribute to her life and achievements?  Or even just to her as a mother?
As I said. That's the Spencers' wish.
And the public, Ma'am? The British People?
You don't think a private funeral would be denying them a chance..
hance to what..?
To share in the grief?
It's a family funeral, Mr. Blair. Not a fairground attraction.  I think the Princess has already paid a high enough price for exposure to the press, don't you?
Now, if there is nothing else I must get on. The children have to be looked after.
Of course.
Good bye, Your Majesty.
Her instinct is to do nothing. Say nothing. And give her a private funeral.
Are you surprised? She hated her guts.
Well, I think it's a mistake.
They screwed up her life. Let's hope they don't screw up her death.
The Chaplain called. Wanted to know whether he should make any changes to the service or make special mention of Diana.
What did you say?
I told him he shouldn't change a thing.
uite right.
I think the less fuss one makes, or draws attention to it, the better. she lowers her voice, as the PRINCES approach from the saloon with CHARLES) For the boys.
Yes.
And we should probably arrange some company for them. Some young people.
I'll take them for a long walk this afternoon. Up Craggy Head.
Good. They'd like that.
But no guns. It's Sunday.
Alastair? He's on..
e are today a nation in a state of shock, in mourning, in grief that is so deeply painful to us. People everywhere, not just here in Britain, kept faith with Princess Diana..
They liked her, they loved her, they regarded her as one of the people. She was the people's princess, and that is how she will stay, how she will remain in our hearts and memories forever.." ANVRIN's eyes roll privately..
A bit over the top, don't you think?
Notre Pere qui es aux cieux, Que ton nom soit sanctifie, Que ton regne vienne, Que ta volonte soit faite, ur la terre comme au ciel..
I'll always be glad I knew the Princess, and hope everyone will support her two fine sons and help them have the life and the future she would want..
I had the honour of hosting her a few months ago when she visited our country, and I was tremendously impressed by her..
In cities all around the world, shrines have been created, in a spontaneous, worldwide outpouring of grief.
Lord Airlie.
The Lord Chamberlain. In charge of the funeral. You're meeting him at the airport.
Lord Airlie.
 Prime Minister. I'm responsible for organising all royal ceremonial events...  And there's simply no precedent for the funeral of an ex-HRH.
Then perhaps we should plan for any contingency.
Yes. I've arranged a meeting tomorrow morning at 10.00 at Buckingham Palace. Officials from all three palaces, representatives from the Spencer Family, the emergency services. a beat) Would you send some of your people?
Absolutely. Of course.
 `Preeecedent?'
Where do they find these people?
I'm so sorry, Sir. And if there's anything I or my Government can do...
They stood up as we drove past...in cafes...in restaurants. Removed their hats. This was Paris. One of the busiest cities in the world...and you could hear a pin drop...
I imagine it will be the same here.
Yes...I imagine it will.
The Palace would still prefer to see it as a private funeral. What are your feelings on that?
I...  I think that would present us with difficulties. HARLES So do I. My mother..  ...the Queen, comes from a generation not best equipped to...  ...she grew up in the war...  I think what we need, what the COUNTRY needs is to be led by someone.."of today". If you follow?  Balmoral is.. (he gestures, `another world')
I think I understand.
Have we heard from the Spencers again? Have they made up their minds when the funeral will be?
Not me. No one tells me anything.
The Prince of Wales spent half an hour at the hospital. At 5.06, the party left with Diana's coffin..
n our walk today, one of the ghillies said he'd seen a large stag up at Craghie Head. a beat) He reckoned fourteen points.
What? Really? We haven't had one that big on this estate in years.
No. Quite.
Diana's coffin arrived back in London, at RAF Northolt, two hours later..
nyway, I thought it might be a good distraction. For the boys.
What? Stalking?
Isn't it a bit soon?
I think anything that gets them outside is a good idea.
arlier today, the Prime Minister made a statement from his constituency..
"They liked her. They loved her. They regarded her as one of the People. She was the People's Princess, and that is how she will remain in our hearts forever.."
I'm sorry, I can't bear it. gets to her feet) I'm going to bed.
ORD AIRLIE, , checks the time. It's ten o'clock. He raps on a table, calling the meeting to order..
Right. It's ten o'clock. Let's make a start. Thank you all for coming at such notice. I think we all agree this is an extraordinarily sensitive occasion which presents us with tremendous challenges logistically... 
 ...constitutionally..  ..practically...  ...diplomatically..  ...procedurally...
Oh, Christ..
"..after eighteen years of Opposition, of frustration and despair, I am proud, privileged, to stand before you as the new Prime Minister..."
Labour Prime Minister..
"I want to set an ambitious course to modernise this country. To breathe new life into our institutions. To make privilege something for the many, not the few. So that we become nothing less than a beacon to the world..."
This lot call you "The Nation's Mourner in Chief", this lot say you're "The only person who has correctly judged the mood of the country". Even the "Mail".. (disdainfully holding the paper between finger and thumb) ..was impressed.
"People's Princess", mate. You owe me.
Gordon for you.
Tell him to hang on.
So it's decided? It's going to be a public funeral.
Yes. On Saturday. A whopper. The Abbey. The works.
Good. Has anyone told the Queen yet?
Dunno. No doubt some flunkey will be despatched. Grovelling on all fours.
Good morning, Ma'am.
..Ma'am.
What can we do for you, Robin?
Ma'am, there was a meeting at the Palace this morning.
About the funeral arrangements, yes.
The Lord Chamberlain faxed over these plans for you to consider.
There is now general agreement, Ma'am, that a public funeral would be more appropriate.
I see.
nd what form will it take?
At the moment, they're suggesting..  And of course these are early days..
...basing it on Tay Bridge.
Tay Bridge..?
What..?
B-but that's the code name for my funeral?    J ANVRIN ndeed, Ma'am.  But it would be for practical reasons only.
It's the only one which has been..  ..`rehearsed'. The only one that could be put together..in time.
But I supervised those plans myself.
Indeed, and the Lord Chamberlain was at pains to stress the spirit of the occasion will be quite different. a beat) For example, in place of four hundred soldiers marching behind the coffin, the suggestion is that four hundred representatives from the Princess's various charities march behind the coffin.
I see..
And that instead of foreign Heads of State and Crown heads of Europe, the guests would include a sprinkling of actors of stage and screen, fashion designers and other..  ...celebrities..
Celebrities..?
Oh.
Wa..was there anything else?
o, Ma'am.
Oh, yes. One other thing. The Police Commissioner was keen that you consider the idea of a condolence book.  It would give the growing crowds something to do. Make marshalling them easier.
 Yes, of course..
Oh, and the flowers.
hat flowers?
The flowers that have been left outside Buckingham palace. Currently they're blocking the path through the main gate, and will make things difficult for the Changing of the Guard.
Fine. Then move them away.
Actually, the Lord Chamberlain was wondering whether we shouldn't leave the flowers, and send the Guards through the North Gate.
Ye-es. Of course. chastened) Quite right.
tephen Lamport on one.
Who?
The Prince of Wales's private secretary. In Balmoral. covering phone) He said it was urgent.
ood afternoon.
Good afternoon, Prime Minister.
The Prince of Wales wanted me to thank you again for your kind words yesterday.
Not at all.
He feels you and he...are modern men...of similar mind...  ...who could work well together at this difficult time.
Well, please thank his Highness, and assure him that he can count on my full support. At all times.  Was that it?
Yes.
Bizarre. Why is Charles doing this?
What?
Creeping up to me like this. He did it at the airport when he asked me to `deal' with his mother.
ecause he knows that if the Queen continues to get it wrong over Diana, it won't be long before the Royals become public enemy no 1. a beat) Terrified of being shot, apparently.
Who, Charles?
His people have already been onto us asking for extra protection.
He probably thinks if he's seen to be on our side, the Queen will be the one left in the firing line, not him.
What? So it's OK for his mother to take the bullet, not him? shakes head) What a family.
Wait! Where are they?
Up at Craigghead.
I'll come with you.
Want me to drive?
Certainly not.
I thought you were going to get a new one of these?
What for? It's perfectly all right.
I was thinking last night what Diana might have done had it been me that died in the tunnel in Paris.
She would certainly have taken the boys to Paris. I rather regret not doing that now.
What? And expose them to the media? It would have been a dreadful thing to do. They're much better off here.
Look, whatever else you may have thought of Diana - she was a wonderful mother. a beat) She adored those boys. And never let them forget it. a beat) Always warm.
And physical. a beat) Never afraid to show her feelings.
Especially whenever a photographer was in sight.
Yes, she MAY have encouraged all that, but still..
That was always the extraordinary thing about her. Her weaknesses and transgressions only seemed to make the public love her MORE. Yet ours only make them hate us. Why is that?
Why do they hate us so much?
Not `us', dear.
 What?
Yesterday, when we drove the coffin back into London, there was a noise. A bang. I don't mind telling you I thought it was a gun.
I thought someone had taken a shot at me.
Why don't you go on without me? I'm going to walk back..
Are you sure?
Yes. It looks like rain..  And I'm not in the mood for stalking anyway.
Wait! My shoe-lace is undone. You don't want me to trip and hurt myself, do you? a beat) You wouldn't get any proper walks then.
Right. Done. Now who knows the way home?
You clever things!
I spoke to Charles this afternoon.
Who was good enough to share with me his views on motherhood.
What did he say? TV plays in the corner. DIANA, starved thin, panda-eyes, the infamous Martin Bashir `PANORAMA' interview..
How wonderful Diana was.
That's changing his tune.
What a natural.
..I think..they see me as a threat of some kind..
 Oh, for God's sake..
Maybe he's got a point. Maybe we are partly to blame.
I can't watch this.
No, wait. Leave it.
"Every strong woman in history has had to walk down a similar path.."
We encouraged the match. And signed off on it. Both of us. a beat) You were very enthusiastic, remember.
She was a nice girl. Then.
"And I think it's this strength that causes the confusion and the fear."
And I was sure he'd give the other one up. Or, at least make sure his wife towed the line.  Isn't that what everyone does?
Is it?
"Why is she strong? Where is she getting it from? Where is she going to take it? How is she going to use it?"
I can't bear it any more. If you're watching, I'll sleep in here. Early start tomorrow.. (kisses her on the forehead) See you in the morning.
How much of all this could be the first stirrings of..
hat?
..I don't know...something more interesting. Maybe this time people have finally seen them for what they are.
Which is?
A bunch of freeloading, emotionally retarded...nutters.
 That's just absurd.
Why? They exist in a ludicrous cocoon of privilege and wealth. They don't pay tax.
Yes, they do.
The Queen alone costs us what? Thirty, forty million a year..
ot you, too. Look...if you want to have a serious conversation about this..
I do..
..about the Constitution..
e don't HAVE one..
...or about ways in which we as a Government could begin to phase out hereditary privileges, then fine.
 If you're going, take the dishes..
But spare me the whole.."off with their heads" thing.
Why?
Because it insults your intelligence.
"The case for reform is simple and obvious. It is in principle wrong and absurd that people should wield power on the basis of birth, not merit or election."  YOUR words, not mine.
Well, maybe now I've grown up. a beat) It's unimaginable this country being a republic. Certainly in her lifetime.
Why?
Because...no would would wear it. (can't help laughing at the idea) No one WANTS it.  It's just...daft.
It's not a mother thing, is it?
Think about it. If she were still alive, wouldn't Hazel be exactly the same age? Whenever you talk about your mother, you mention her stoicism. Her frugality. Her sense of duty. The fact she was brought up in the way. Well c'mon..?  Who does THAT sound like?
I'm going to do the washing-up.          F ADE TO BLACK
All right, the good news is that the Palace has agreed to video screens in the Royal Parks.
And the bad news?
Crash barriers.
What about them?
hey're now predicting more than two million people will descend on London, and there aren't enough barriers to line the route. So we've gone cap in hand to the French for theirs. And there's something else I think you should see.
Can we run that piece again? You're going to love this.
Look, I know all this..
There!
Don't tell me. There isn't a flag flying at half mast above Buckingham Palace.
God. Will someone save these people from themselves..  ine. I'll call Balmoral...
`Planet Zog'?
Because as Prime Minister of this country, I've really got nothing better to do..
Those fire-lighters no good? carrying tupperware boxes) I brought some stew just in case. I think it's lamb. We could always have that cold..
No, we'll be all right.
Robin had a call from the Prime Minister. Who expressed his concern.
About WHAT?
The flag above Buckingham Palace. He thinks it should be flying at half- mast.
Then I hope Robin told him there ISN'T a flag above Buckingham Palace... (angrily jabs coals with a long, sharp fork) ...only the Royal Standard, which flies for one reason only. 
To denote the presence of the Monarch. Since you're here, the flag pole is bare. Which is as it should be.
Isn't it possible..that to some people...the Royal Standard is just.. ..a flag? And that the flap pole being bare sends out the wrong signal.
That's not the point.
The point is it's more than four hundred years old. It has never been lowered for ANYONE..
Your grandfather didn't get that flag at half-mast when he died and if your mother were to die tomorrow, she wouldn't get it either.
Yes...but sometimes...in a situation like this..one has to be flexible..
 It is just a flag.
"What about the Union Jack?", was Mr. Blair's next suggestion.
 Oh, for heaven's sake.
The next thing he'll be suggesting you change your name to Hilda and mine to Hector? angry gesture) Who does he think he's talking to? You're the Sovereign. The Head of State. You don't get dictated to. a beat) You've conceded the idea of a public funeral. You've opened up the parks. That's ENOUGH.
You wait. In forty-eight hours it was all have calmed down.
Like those condolence books.
Quite right.  When we started with one, everyone predicted they would grow and grow. But we've heard nothing more about that, see?
Apparently there are now fifteen.
What..?
And people are queuing through the night.
In one sense its comforting. a beat) For the first time my parents can see what it's been like for me all these years, being up against her popularity.  But they're still making the mistake of thinking the Diana they knew from living and dealing with her, will eventually be the one seen by the public. But it's not. The two Dianas, theirs and ours, bear no relation to one another at all.
They just adored her. Would have loved nothing more than for her to be Queen. a beat) Someone compassionate. With a heart. Gifts in tragically short supply around here.
I've been thinking is the flag flying at half mast over my house at Highgrove?
Yes, Sir.
Make sure we get a picture of that in the papers, would you? If my mother wants to make a mess of this, that's her business. a beat) I won't let her drag me down, too.
See? It isn't just me.
What?
People really DO want change. And want YOU to give it to them.
And do what? Cut off their heads?
Apparently, one in six people now support the idea of getting rid of the Monarchy.
 That's just the papers spoiling for a fight.
But still, imagine this country without them? With a nice elected Head of State? a beat) That'd be some legacy. If the revolution were to happen on your watch.
That's the stalking party off?
Right, we'd better have a look at these papers. ECRETARY "Show us there's a heart in the House of Windsor," says the Sun..
It proves, the Royals are not like us", the Mirror. "Time to change the Old Guard at Buckingham Palace". Express.
 God..
"One can't help wondering who's advice they are taking for it's clearly the wrong advice..."
Right...
Well, I'll try not to take that personally.
"People have been yearning for a change in this country." Good. "The result is a quiet revolution now taking place. Led by the real modernisers. The British People.." TONY tails off..
`Revolution'? Not you, too? tails off) Who wrote this?
Where does it come from?
Where does it come from?
Just look at the papers. Talk to people on the streets.
Something's happening out there.
Revolution.
Get me Balmoral, will you? a beat) I'll take it in my office.
Right. You lot. Out.
What about the speech?
Later.
ANVRIN ..and finally, Ma'am, a DSO medal. A Corporal, in Kosovo..you may have read about it in the papers..pulled two civilians from a bus after a bomb blast.
Hurry up, dear. Getting cold.
Is that it?
Yes, Ma'am. Just the letter of condolence to the widow of the Ambassador to Brazil.
Good.
Ma'am, apparently the Prime Minister is on the phone for you.
 Tell him to call back.
No, I'd better take it.
Prime Minister?
Good afternoon, your Majesty. I'm sorry to disturb. I was just wondering..
...whether you'd seen any of today's papers?
We've managed to look at one or two, yes.
In which case, my next question would be - whether you felt some kind of response might be necessary?
No. I believe a few over-eager editors are doing their best to sell newspapers..and it would be a mistake to dance to their tune.
Under normal circumstances I would agree, but..P RINCE PHILIP  Here we go! The bloody flag again..!
..my advisers have been taking the temperature among people on the streets - and the information I'm getting is that the mood..  ...is quite delicate.
 Of course. That's where all the ruddy cameras are.
So what would you suggest, Prime Minister? Some kind of statement?
No, Ma'am. I believe the moment for statements has passed.
I would suggest flying the flag at half-mast above Buckingham Palace...
See!
And coming down to London at the earliest opportunity.
It would be a great comfort to your people and would help them with their grief.
THEIR grief?
If you're suggesting that I drop everything and come down to London before I attend to two boys that have just lost their mother..you're mistaken.
Absurd..   E ELIZABETH I doubt there are many who know the British more than I do, Mr. Blair, nor who has greater faith in their wisdom and judgement. And it is my belief that they will soon reject this `mood' which has been stirred up by the press...in favour of a period of restrained grief, and sober, private mourning. a beat) That's the way we do things in this country. Quietly. With dignity.  It's what the rest of the world has always admired us for.
Well, if that's your decision, Ma'am, of course the government will support it. 
 Let's keep in touch.
Yes. could hardly be less enthusiastic) Let's.
Bloody fool.
Now your tea's gone cold.
Robin Janvrin on one. a beat) He must have been listening in.
Mr Janvrin?
Prime Minister, I understand how `difficult' her behaviour must seem to you..how `unhelpful'..but try to see it from her perspective..  She's been brought up to believe its God's will that she is who she is.
I think we should leave God out of it. It's just not helpful.
She won't have seen anything like this since the Abdication. a beat) 
And I cannot emphasise enough what affect that had on her. Unexpectedly becoming King as good as killed her father.
All right - but first we have to deal with these terrible headlines. I'll see what I can do with the Press.
I'm most grateful, Prime Minister.
But I can't promise anything. It's not me they want to see.
Ask Alistair to come and see me will you.
nd cancel whatever I'm doing tonight.
Oh..
Oh, you are stupid.
 Hello? Could you put me through to the Ghillies' office? listens) ello, Thomas? I'm afraid I've done something very foolish. I think I've broken the prop-shaft. Crossing the river.
Are you sure, Ma'am?
Yes, perfectly. The front one, not the rear. I've lost the four-wheel drive. You forget I worked as a mechanic in the war.
And are you all right?
Yes, perfectly, thank you. I'm so sorry to waste your time..
We'll come out straightaway.
Oh, will you? You are kind. Thank you. a beat) I'll wait by the car.
Oh, you are a beauty.
 Go. Go on. You'd better go..
 Go. Shoo. Go on.
I've just been told there are news crews outside waiting for you to come and "speak to the people."
Yes.
What's that about?
I told the Queen's private secretary I'd do what I could to help with the press.
Why? Don't you think she deserves it? Sitting up there on her 40,000 acres.
I know...but allowing her to hang herself might not be in our best interests either.
Besides, I think there's something...ugly about the way everyone's started to bully her.
..earlier tonight the Prime Minister went out and pleaded with people to understand the Royals' behaviour..
How are the boys?
Not so good tonight. A lot of slamming doors.  I think they saw the papers.
Oh, no..
I'll take them out early again tomorrow morning.
Where have you come from?
Hamburg.
Hamburg, Germany?
Well, I just had to be here. She was such a wonderful woman.. RINCE PHILIP What?
She was an angel..
...and a hysteric.
o compassionate, and caring..
Oh, please..
Sleeping in the streets and pulling out their hair for someone they never knew?
And they think we're mad?
Have you seen the latest funeral guest list?
No.
I suggest you keep it that way. A chorus line of soap stars and homosexuals.  
Apparently Elton John is going to be singing.
That'll be a first for Westminster Abbey.
Condolence books are now being signed in our embassies in every major city in the world. a beat) And in London alone the number has reached forty.
stares at the CROWDS of MOURNERS on the television) This reminds me of one of those films. A few of us in a Fort. Hordes of Zulus outside.
So it's VITAL you hold firm. Stick to your guns. You wait. They will come to their senses soon. a beat) They HAVE to.
C'mon, move over, Cabbage.
It's six o'clock. Time for a look at the morning's newspapers. Jenny..
Good morning. Well if you thought yesterday's headlines for the Royals couldn't get any worse - think again.
 he Sun - "Where is our Queen? Where is her flag?" takes another paper) The Express, "Show us you care", with a picture of a grumpy Queen.  The Mail - "Let the Flag Fly at half- mast", and inside, "The Queen should be here to show her respects."
Blimey! But the flip-side is... "Blair more popular than Churchill shock."
Did any of them pick up on our statement of support?
Just one.
Statements of support don't sell papers.
Right..
The Prime Minister for you, Ma'am.
I'm afraid he's rather insisting.
All right. I'll take it here. a beat) In the kitchens.
ood morning, Prime Minister.
Good morning, Ma'am.
You've seen today's headlines?
Yes, I have.
Then I'm sure you'll agree. The situation has become quite critical.
Ma'am, a poll that's to be published in tomorrow's paper suggests 70% of people believe your actions have damaged the monarchy and one in four are now in favour of abolishing the monarchy altogether.
As your Prime Minister, I believe it's my constitutional responsibility to ADVISE the following..
Is Queen Elizabeth up yet?
Mummy?
One - lower the flag to half-mast above Buckingham Palace and all other Royal residences. Two - leave Balmoral, and fly down to London at the earliest opportunity. Three - pay respects in person at Diana's coffin. And four - make a statement via live television to my people and the world.
Swift prosecution of these matters, he felt, might, just might avert disaster.
bviously you're going to have to talk to the Lord Chamberlain about all this.
I have.
And to Robert Fellowes.
To him too.
And..?
It seems they both agree with him.
I see.
Something's happened. There's been a change...a shift of values..
When you no longer understand your people, isn't it time to hand over to the next generation?
Certainly not! Remember the oath you took
"I declare that my whole life, whether it be long or short, shall be devoted to your service."
Your WHOLE life. That's a commitment to God as well as your people.
But if my actions are damaging the crown?
Damaging them? My dear, you are the greatest asset this institution has. One of the greatest it has EVER had. The problem will come when you leave, but that's not for you to worry about - and certainly not today.
Mummy..
It's just no one seems to value tradition or constancy any more.  It's all about show. About wearing your heart on your sleeve.
And you're not like that. Never have been. No...you must show strength. Re- assert your authority. You sit on the most powerful throne in Europe. Head of an unbroken line that goes back more than a thousand years. How many of your predecessors do you imagine would have dropped everything and gone down to London because people holding candles wanted help with their grief?
And as for Mr Blair and his Cheshire Cat grin...
Mr Janvrin for you sir.
Yes Robin....?
What? It's madness! The whole thing! Bloody madness!
It seems we are going back to London!
I've just been told. You've decided to go back to London. he QUEEN's face. Avoids eye contact.
I just want to say - I admire... (strangled, trying to find the right words) I think it's the right decision.
Let's hope we haven't left it too late.
BANG' a passing motorbike's exhaust backfires. CHARLES jolts in shock, and flinches privately.
We are just getting some pictures now from Balmoral. These are rather historic shots. Clearly the Queen has responded to criticism that the Royal Family is not engaged.. TONY looks up. Breathes a sigh of relief..
 Thank God for that.
It's fish-fingers. Want any?
Be right there.
I'm afraid they're a bit burned.
Where are the boys? Have they already left?
Yes. They left for London after breakfast. With Charles.
It's not right, you know
Yes, but further discussion is no longer helpful either.
Oh, well. I suppose it gives the ghillies time to find a new stag for the boys now theirs has been shot.
What?
Haven't you heard? It wandered onto one of the neighbouring estates where it was shot by one of the commercial guests.
Really..?
Which estate?
Here's your box. There's some important policy unit stuff on top. a beat) And you've seen the papers?
 I'm the Prime Minister. Of course I've seen the papers.
 "Your Maj? Come down to London." "Who says so?" "Tony Blair."
"Mr. Father of the Nation."
Morning, Ma'am. Is it his Lordship you've come to see? e reaches into his pockets for his cell-phone..
No, no..please don't disturb him. I've come on another matter. I hope you don't mind..
There he is..
Yes, he's a beauty, isn't he? An Imperial, Ma'am. Fourteen pointer.
e was wounded.
Yes. We got our guest in very close, had him lined-up perfect, and still.. shrugs apologetically) ..an investment banker, Ma'am. From London.
I'm afraid the stalkers had to follow him for miles - to finish him off.
voice cracks) Let's hope he didn't suffer too much.
Please pass my congratulations to your guest.
I will, Ma'am.
 God bless you.
Yes, Robin..
I've done a draft of your television address.
Thank you.
Was there anything else?
No, Ma'am. Landing in fifteen minutes.
I've got a copy of the Queen's speech.
Shall I give Tony a copy?
Let me have a look at it first.
 Good God..
They sent a copy of the Queen's speech.
You might want to scrape the frost off it first.
I made a couple of changes. So it sounds like it comes from a human being.
Oh, and one bit of good news. The old boot's FINALLY agreed to pay respects at Diana's coffin.
You know when you get it wrong, you REALLY get it wrong. a beat) That woman has given her whole life in service to her people - fifty years doing a job she NEVER wanted - a job she watched kill her father. She's executed it with dignity, honour and, as far as I can tell, without a single blemish - and now we line up baying for her blood - why? Because she's struggling to lead the world in mourning for a woman who threw everything she offered back in her face, and who seemed, in the last few years, to be committed twenty-four seven to destroy everything she holds dear.
Oh..hello.
Would you like me to place them for you?
No.
Oh.
They're for you.
 For me..?
Your Majesty, there's a last minute addition from Downing Street. They're suggesting adding `..and as a grandmother..' here.
Right.
"So what I say to you now, as your Queen and as a grandmother, I say from my heart."
You think you can say it?
Do I have a choice?
We're ready for you, your Majesty..
Just to confirm this is going out live.
Right
And you'll be at the front of the six o'clock news on all the channels
I see.
 Ten seconds, everyone..
Five, four..
Since last Saturday's dreadful news we have seen, throughout Britain and the world, an overwhelming expression of sadness at Diana's death..
We have all been trying in our different ways to cope. The initial shock is often succeeded by a mixture of other feelings. Disbelief, incomprehension, anger and concern for those who remain.
We have all felt these emotions in these last few days. So what I say to you now, as your Queen and as a grandmother, I say from my heart...
"Heart"? What "heart". She doesn't mean a word of this.
That's not the point. What she's doing is extraordinary.  That's how you survive.
Listen to you! A week ago you were the great moderniser, making speeches about the "People's Princess", now you've gone weak at the knees.
I don't know why I'm surprised. In the end, all Labour Prime Ministers go ga- ga for her Maj.
I hope that tomorrow we can all, wherever we are, join in expressing our grief at Diana's loss, and gratitude for her all-too-short life.
May those who died rest in peace and may we, each and every one of us..
..thank God for someone who made many, many people happy.
 And we're out..!
Thank you, your Majesty.
So? Off to see your girlfriend?
Now, now..
I hope she shows you some respect this time. It's quite a debt of gratitude she owes you.
Mr "Saviour of the Monarchy."
doubt she'll see it that way.
Robin. Good to see you.
Prime Minister.
 Tony, please..
The Prime Minister, Ma'am.
Do sit down.
Thank you.
It's good to see you again. After quite a summer..
I'm referring to your visit to India and Pakistan, where your comments about ending historic disagreements went down very well.
And the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting. I spoke to the Prime Minister of Malawi, who was saying how much he appreciated your tough stance on Nigeria.
I meant to tell you at the time but you were being monopolised rather.
I imagine those occasions are quite difficult. Twenty-four heads of Government each clamouring for a private audience..
Also, we haven't had a chance to speak since THAT week. And I wanted to offer my apologies..
Whatever for?
In case you'd felt `manhandled' or `managed' in any way.
Not at all.
I don't think I shall ever understand what happened this summer.
The circumstances were exceptional, Ma'am. And in the end, you showed great personal strength, courage, and humility.   E ELIZABETH ou're confusing humility with humiliation.
That's not true.
You didn't hear what they were saying in the Mall that Friday.
I still believe History will show it was a good week for you.
And an even better one for you, Mr Blair.
But there are fifty-two weeks in a year, Ma'am. And two and a half thousand in a half century.
And when people come to assess your legacy, no one will remember those few days.
Really?
You don't feel that what respect or affection people might once have had for..
..this institution has been diminished?
Not at all.
I gather some of your closest advisors were less fulsome in their support..
One or two. But as a leader one has...a different perspective. a beat) I could never have added my voice to the chorus.
You're very kind.
But let's also not forget the more pragmatic reason.
Which is?
That without me there to distract everyone, it'd suddenly become embarrassingly clear how much unchecked power the British Prime Minister actually has.
If fifty years of doing MY job has taught me anything, it is that the people doing YOURS generally prefer me with all my faults to some kind of meddling President..  Just look at the French.
ELIZABETH I suppose we'd better get on with the business in hand..
I do love this time of day. Shall we walk while there's still some sunshine left? I do hope you're a walker.
I am.
Good. The clocks go back next week, then it'll be dark by five.
I always think these meetings stand a better chance of succeeding if the Prime Minister is a walker.
As a matter of fact, it's how I think best. On my feet. I've never been one for sitting around endlessly. A good walk and fresh air sorts everything out..
One in four, you said? Wanted to get rid of me? T
For about half an hour. But then you came down to London and all that went away.
I've never been hated like that before.
No. And that must have been difficult.
It was. Very.
Ever since Diana people want glamour and tears..the grand performance..and I'm not very good at that. I prefer to keep my feelings to myself. Foolishly I believed that's what people wanted from their Queen. Not to make a fuss nor wear one's heart on one's sleeve, duty first... self second.
It's how I was brought up. It's all I've ever known
One forgets. You were so young when you became Queen.
I was. A girl.
But I can see the world has changed. And one must 'modernise'.
Well, perhaps that's where I can help.
 Don't get ahead of yourself Prime- minister, I think you'll find that I'm supposed to be advising YOU!
So...what might we expect in your first Parliament?
Well, Ma'am, top of the list is education reform. We want to radically reduce classroom sizes...
