The story of Mademoiselle Renard, a ravishing young aristocrat, whose sexual proclivities ran the gamut from winsome to bestial. Who doesn't dream of indulging every spasm of lust, feeding each depraved hunger?
Owing to her noble birth, Mademoiselle Renard was granted full immunity to do just that, inflicting pain and pleasure with equal zest, until one day --
Mademoiselle found herself at the mercy of a man whose skill in the Art of Pain exceeded her own.
How easily, dear Reader, one changes from predator to prey! And how swiftly pleasure is taken from some and given to others!
Your linens, please.
Your linens.
 Morning.
G'morning.
Pss. 'S me.
Now hurry.
That you, Maddy?
Yes, Mother. Just taking the bleached ones out to dry.
Aren't you going to lend us a hand, then?
Bouchon!
Remember your manners.
Here it is; the last chapter.
Monsieur Masse says he'd like another manuscript, quick as you please. He's got himself three presses, and he can't print 'em fast enough.
I'll pass the word on, then.
I'll pay you another visit, with a share of the profits, once its sold.
I'll be waiting.
 Maybe someday you'll tell me your name.
This just in; the very latest from the Marquis de Sade!
"Our story concerns a nymph named Justine, as pretty a maid as ever entered a nunnery, with a body so firm and ripe, it seemed a shame to commit it to God..."
"One morning, the Bishop placed his hand upon her thigh. 'Holy Father!,' cried she, 'I've come to confess my sins, not commit them anew!'"
"heedless, the old priest turned her over on his knee and lifted her skirts high above her hips, exposing the pink flesh of her backside. There -- between the orbs of her dimpled ass -- lay a blushing rosebud, begging to be... plucked."
"Before Justine could wrestle from his grasp, this most ungodly man took a communion wafer -- the body of our Lord Jesus Christ -- and placed it on the girl's twitching orifice --  Must I, Your Majesty?
"As he loosened his manhood from beneath his robes, The Bishop muttered a Latin prayer. And then -- with a mighty thrust -- drove it into her very entrails --"
 Enough!
Seize every copy; we'll torch them all on the palace lawn, in full public view.
As for the author... shoot him.
A word of caution, Sire: we all remember what happened to Robespierre, Danton and Marat. Put the Marquis to death, and history might even regard you as a despot.
But I am history.
Of course, Your Highness. Nevertheless... cure the Marquis de Sade... succeed, where countless physicians and priests have failed...
Yes?
 No one can fault Napoleon for merely bringing a man to his senses.
Might I suggest that we order an appraisal of the Charenton Asylum, and the rather notorious inmate in her care. I've the perfect candidate for the job: Doctor Royer-Collard, the distinguished alienist. He's a staunchly moral man of impeccable character and iron resolve --
My colleagues have called me old fashioned; even barbaric.
But here at the Hotel Dieu we favor an... aggressive... course of treatment.
Quite.
I don't seek popularity or renown, Monsieur Delben. Mine is a higher mission.
To take God's tiny blunders... those He has forsaken... and condition them with the same force... the same rigor... you would employ to train a feral dog or wild stallion.
It may not be pretty, but it is mercy just the same.
It's the Emperor's dearest hope that you might bring your expertise -- your proficiency -- to the Charenton asylum --
Charenton? The administrator there is quite well-loved, is he not?
I'm afraid so; he's an idealist. You'll have to be politic.
Do you know how I define "idealism," Monsieur Delben?
Youth's final luxury.
Of course, we mustn't just copy the words; it's important that we know what they mean. St. Augustine tells us that angels and demons walk among us on the earth; that sometimes, they jointly inhabit the soul of a single man...
Then how can we know who is truly good, and who is evil?
We can't. All we can do is guard against our own corruption.
You'll practice reading tonight on your own? For me?
"And so the Professor lifted Colombe's skirt high, above her waist. 'Let me be your Tutor,' said he, 'in the ways of love.' With that, he slid her pantalettes down, down, down over her knees, and there -- nestled between her legs -- as pink as a tulip, as slick as an eel --"
 We oughtn't be reading his nasty stories --
No one's forcing you to listen.
 Very well then.
"...he gazed upon her Venus mound; her flaxen quim; the winking eye of God."
You've been to his quarters, haven't you?
Once or twice.
I hear he's got a whetstone and chisel, and he uses them to sharpen his teeth.
He's a writer, not a madman.
Then what's he doing here?
Murder.
That's not so!
He writes books so wicked -- so black with evil -- that one man killed his wife, after reading 'em...
And two young mothers miscarried their babies!
I'd say that's murder enough.
If you're going to slander him, then you don't deserve to hear his stories --
 I think she's sweet on him, that's what I think.
It's not the Marquis she's sweet on; Is it, Madeleine?
Fresh linens.
I'm hungry for a proper visit.
 Don't start --
Go ahead; you've a key. Slip it through my tiny hole...
Marquis? Where'd you get to, then?
Well....?
Did I frighten you?
You? Frighten me? That's a good one! I'm twice as fast as you are. Who'd have thought such a spent body can still boast such a fertile mind?
It's the only frontier I have left, plumcake.
I suppose you want to know about that silly book of yours.
It sold like the devil, 'fore they started burning it.
The peril of composing such incendiary prose...
I put myself at life and limb. Surely that's worth a few louis.
If only these coins purchased your other talents, too.
There's something else I want from you.
You've already stolen my heart, as well as another more prominent organ, south of the Equator...
Your publisher says I'm not to leave without a new manuscript.
I've just the story... inspired by these very surroundings....
The unhappy tale of a virginal laundry lass, the darling of the lower wards, where they entomb the criminally insane.
Is it awfully violent?
Most assuredly.
Is it terribly erotic?
Fiendishly so.
But it comes with a price.
A kiss for each page.
Must I administer them directly, or might I blow them?
 The price, my coquette, is every bit as firm as I am...
 Oh, you. You talk same as you write.
What are we today, Cleante? A bullfinch, or a nightengale?
There's but one kind of bird in a madhouse, Abbe.
Don't tell me: a loon. Sorry. I've heard that one before --
It's a long story, this one.
The climax comes at a higher cost; you must sit on my lap.
You demand a lot from your readers, you do.
The story's thrilling conclusion comes at a premium.
What's that then?
 Your maidenhead. And then you must sew it up as tightly as the day you were born, and come back to me renewed so I can deflower it a second time.
Some things belong on paper, others in life. It's a blessed fool who can't tell the difference.
Mademoiselle LeClerc.
You're in the nick of time. This old lech forgot himself. He thought I was a character in one of his nasty stories!
Madeleine --
Yes, Abbe?
The next time you feel the urge to visit the Marquis, I hope you'll come to confession instead.
Care for a splash of wine, Abbe?
It's not even noon --
Conversation, like certain portions of the anatomy, always runs more smoothly when it's lubricated.
It's a rare vintage from an obscure village in Bordeaux. Rather than crush the grape underfoot, they place the fruit on the belly of a bride and reap its juices when the young husband steers his vessel into port.
A full-bodied flavor with just a hint of wantonness? Bottom's up!
It's from our own cellar. I recognize the taste.
I should've told you it was the blood of Christ; you'd believe that, wouldn't you?
We treat you well enough here, don't we Marquis? Your very own featherbed, in lieu of a straw mat. Your antique writing desk, all the way from LaCoste. Enough quills to feather an ostrich --
 It's true, dear-heart, you've spoiled me pink.
In exchange, we ask only that you follow the rules. Now you know as well as I do... you're not to entertain visitors in your quarters.
I'm entertaining you now, aren't I?
I'm not a beautiful young prospect, ripe for corruption.
Don't be so sure.
Take your pen in hand, Marquis. Purge these wicked thoughts of yours on paper; maybe they'll govern you less in life.
 I'll fill page after page, I promise.
Cheers.
They've got no right, sending someone to sit on your shoulder. I work for you; I won't take orders from a stranger.
 You needn't worry, Valcour. It's administrative, nothing more.
Please don't eat the paint, Pascal.
Bravo, Dauphin. It's far better to paint fires than to set them, isn't it?
That's all for today, thank-you.
Dr. Royer-Collard? May I be the first to welcome you to Charenton --
This may feel a tad awkward, my friend, but it needn't be. I've merely come to oversee your work here; understood?
Of course.
It's a formality; truly.
You're a man of Science; I'm a man of God. Charenton stands to profit from us both, I'm certain.
I'll need an office on the grounds; someplace to store my things.
 If you don't mind my asking... why has the Emperor taken such sudden interest in my... our... affairs?
It seems a particular patient of yours has captured his fancy.
Why, why, WHY should this be happening to me?!
Once again, gentleman!
"I'm just a lowly cobbler, and I have been all my life. But with this shoe, I'm asking you to be a cobbler's wife --
 It's a dreadful play, true! A festering pustule on the face of literature. Why the parchment it's written upon isn't worthy to wipe my ass! BUT YOU NEED NOT MAKE IT WORSE! Say your lines with conviction, ma cherie! Like a true actor!
But I'm not an actor; I'm a dyspeptic.
Seduce her, you goon!
I understand he practices the very crimes he preaches in his fiction.
A few indiscretions in his youth.
Indiscretions, Abbe? Please. I've read his case history. At sixteen, he violated a serving girl with a crucifix. After six months in the dungeon at Vincennes, he mutilated a prostitute, cutting her flesh with a razor, then cauterizing the wounds with wax --
I hope you'll judge him by his progress here, and not his past reputation.
He's made a great success of our Little Theater; there's seldom an empty seat. Not to mention its therapeutic value.
Playing dress-up with cretins? That sounds like a symptom of madness; not its cure.
Homo perversio, Doctor. A species that thrives in captivity.
This is Dr. Royer-Collard; he's joining us here in an...
...advisory capacity.
Welcome to our humble madhouse, Doctor. I trust you'll find yourself at home.
Why is he in your care, and not a proper prison?
His wife's influence.
His wife's?
Better to have an insane spouse than a criminal one.
And he's never once attempted escape?
A man of his notoriety? He wouldn't last a day on the streets without capture.
Besides, every wholesome thing he might desire, he has at Charenton. A library, filled with the world's great books, music lessons, watercolor exercises --
What is the impact of all these amenities upon his psyche?
He no longer roars or spits. He no longer taunts the guards or molests his fellow wards --
And his writing?
Oh. That.
Well...?
It's essential to his recovery; a purgative for the toxins in his mind.
Do you favor its publication?
For sale? To the general public? Certainly not; it's unprintable.
Dear God...
You have to believe me, I had no idea --
All France is aghast at this book, yet you've not heard of it?
I've taken vows to live my life within these walls; not outside them.
Abbe, I admire you; I do. You've a conviction... an idealism... peculiar to the very young. And so I'll be candid. The Ministry has sent me here with the most explicit... the most severe instructions.
 Yes?
Unless we set Charenton on a straight and narrow course, she'll be shut down forever by order of the Emperor.
 Shut down?
In their eyes, the Marquis is the surest barometer of your progress here.
 But he's one among some two hundred wards --
Have you tried bleeding him with leeches? The calming chair? Maybe you should flog him at the stake?
Why? So he'll learn to fear punishment, rather than pursue virtue for its own reward?
You're a sentimental man.
A practical man, sir. Given the Marquis' unusual tastes, a sound thrashing on bare flesh may not qualify as a deterrent.
You find this amusing, do you?
On the contrary. Let me take up this matter with the Marquis myself --
And place my reputation at stake?
Charenton is my life's work. To have her wrested from beneath me now --
I've stringent standards, true, but I've something else the Ministry failed to take into account; a heart.
Thank-you, Doctor. I'll effect his contrition; you have my word.
What is it, Abbe?
The Marquis. He's embarrassed us...  ...before Napoleon himself.
He's been slipping manuscripts to his publisher.
He has?
I place my trust too carelessly, Madeleine.
This is a complete... an utter...  ...disappointment.
Yes! It is! The paper's cheap, the type's too small --
What did you do? Bribe one of the guards?
But you implored me to write! For curative purposes, to stave off my madness --
But you've no right to publish! Behind my back, without my sanction!
Have you truly read the book in question? Or did you run -- straightaway -- to the dog-eared pages?
Enough to discern its tenor.
And --?
It's not even a proper novel! It's nothing but an encyclopedia of perversions! Frankly, it even fails as an exercise in craft. The characters are wooden; the dialogue is inane. Not to mention the endless repetition of words like "nipple" and "pikestaff" --
There I was taxed; it's true.
And such puny scope! Nothing but the very worst in man's nature!
I write of the great, eternal truths that bind together all mankind! The whole world over, we eat, we shit, we fuck, we kill and we die.
But we also fall in love; we build cities, we compose symphonies, and we endure. Why not put that in your books as well?
It's a fiction, not a moral treatise.
But isn't that the duty of art? To elevate us above the beast?
I thought that was your duty, Abbe, not mine.
One more trick like this, and I'll be forced to revoke all your liberties!
It's that Doctor fellow, isn't it? He's come to usurp your place here, hasn't he?
 More than your writing's at stake. The Ministry has threatened us with closure.
They can't be serious.
Our future lies in the stroke of your pen.
 Mightier than the sword indeed.
Put yourself in my place. I've your fellow patients to consider. If Charenton falls, they've no place to go. No manner in which to clothe or feed themselves --
Fuck 'em! They're half-wits and pinheads. Let 'em die on the streets, as Nature intended.
You among them?
 If ever I showed you a kind hand, Marquis.... If ever I granted you walking privileges on a Spring day, or slipped an extra pillow beneath your door... if ever I shared your wine, laughed at your vulgarities, or humored you with argument... then you will oblige me now. For your sake, and for all Charenton.
You've a touch of the poet, too; perhaps you should take up the quill.
 Do I have your word?
Have no fear, Abbe.
I swear; all that Charenton has given me, I'll repay a hundred-fold.
If you only mean to dupe me again --
 Honestly! You cut me to the core! What's the point of all your valiant attempts at rehabilitation if -- when I finally succumb -- when at long last, I pledge myself to righteous conduct -- you regard me with nothing but suspicion? Have you no faith in your own medicine?
 Thank-you.
My, my. At Charenton, even the walls have eyes.
 Mmmm... don't they?
Well?
I spoke to him with reason and compassion; the tools which serve us best here.
And --?
He's sworn to obedience.
He's more than a patient, Doctor; the Marquis is my friend --
You keep strange company, Abbe. But if you truly have matters in hand here --
I have.
-- then I've friends of my own to visit.
Yes?
I've come for my bride.
We'd not expected you for some time. Simone has not yet come of age.
I've taken a new post at Charenton; I need the succor only a wife can provide.
You remember Dr. Royer-Collard.
I'd not forget the man to whom I was promised.
He's come to collect you.
 Today? This minute?
My apologies, Mademoiselle; I'd no time to write.
Be grateful, child. It's my experience that most poor girls who are orphaned never wed; They wind up spinsters, or worse still... nuns.
Thank God that Fortune has spared you from such a Fate.
God bless, Simone.
The Emperor wishes to ensure your comfort while at Charenton.
Consider the chateau a gift, provided you're willing to finance the necessary repairs.
Monsieur Prouix is the court's most promising young architect; he's at your disposal.
 It has possibilities, yes. Simone?
I'm to live here?
 The place hasn't been occupied since the Terror; it belonged to the Duc de Blangis, an avowed monarchist. The Jacobins were most... unforgiving.
His wife was trying to escape; they caught her on the stair, and set upon her with bayonets.  "There but for the grace of God"... eh, Doctor?
I don't shed tears over the past, Monsieur Delben; I look to the future.
We'd best quarry fresh marble, don't you think?
You're to humor my wife in all things. If she wants Venetian glass, she's to have it. Italian tile, Dutch velvet; spare no expense. (lowering his voice to a whisper) But in her bedchamber, see to it that the door locks from the outside. And on her windows... an iron grate.
Bars, sir?
In the convent, Simone was spared the world's temptations. I won't have her falling prey to them now.
She's a rare bird; I intend to keep her caged.
No!
And that's not all; he's far too old to marry, and she's far too young --
No!
-- I say -- the comely little thing -- is barely sixteen --
-- I say -- ah! -- she's even younger --
No!
-- from a convent, no less; she was meant to be a nun --
-- he's old enough to have fathered her twice over --
Why, the hypocrite. It has all the makings of a farce, hasn't it? Run straightaway, and tell Franval to cancel rehearsal...
Abbe de Coulmier! You rascal! Your comedies have become quite the rage; I had to claw my way to a ticket.
I can hardly take credit --
 And so expertly acted! That charming young man in last week's comedy...  ...I'd no idea he was an imbecile!
Everyone has talents, if we look for them.
 Mmm. Yes. I'm sure.
Is that the new Doctor? You must be thrilled. Such a renowned expert, right here, at Charenton!
 Ah! Curtain time.
I'll say one thing for him; he has a beautiful daughter.
Remember, gentlemen! Inside each of your delicate minds... your distinctive bodies... ART is waiting to be born. So let's give the Doctor a performance I hope he'll remember forever...
Madame Bougival; Mademoiselle Clairwil -- and of course -- the Marquis' wife --
 Oh indeed?
Begging your pardon; it's time to begin.
The dedication, word for word; it's every bit as crucial as the play which follows --
 Madames and Messieurs, there's been a change in tonight's program.
We will not be performing The Happy Shoemaker.
Instead, we'd like to premiere a new play in honor of the newly-appointed Dr. Royer-Collard and his lovely bride, married nary a week today --
-- a comedy entitled...
The Crimes of Love!
...The Crimes of Love, written by one of Charenton's very own wards!
My hat, my hat!
Oh Sister Saint-Fond, whither do we go? Passing o'er rivers, canyons and snow?
Hurry, Eugenie, for we must not tarry; I deliver you now to the man you shall marry!
Once you have rested, at your leisure -- he'll coach you in the ways of pleasure.
At last she arrives, my hard-won bride! Hurry, my child, and scurry inside. There you'll find such treasures await you; Marzipan and meringue to sate you!
Such gallantry in men is -- sadly -- a rarity; How lucky I am to receive his charity!
Thank you, dear Sister, for abetting me so; Bringing her here to this secluded Chateau! Little does she know the terrors in store; when I tutor her in --
...les crimes de l'amour!
Leave at once --
But it's just begun --
Do as I say.
Leaving so soon? Oh, but of course! You've seen it before.
Quickly, my suckling, out of your clothes! My scepter awaits; how solid it grows!
Stop, I beg you! Have pity, I say! You're not my lover; you're a monstrous rou!
Do as I say! Stick your legs in the air! It's true, I'm a pig and you've truffles down there --
Who do you suppose is to blame? The author... or his Muse?
 Good heavens, what's this? Such a wicked sensation! A feeling somewhere between shame and elation! Yes! That's the way; use your tongue like a wand in much the same manner as Sister Saint-Fond!
Quickly; the second act!
I had a suspicion the Sister was Sapphic!
I'd tell you more, but it's simply too graphic. Suffice it to say, she's a preference for lasses! Even at Vespers, she always made passes --
My darling, Eugenie, dainty morsel! Get on your back! Let's try it dorsal!
Was ever a man more risqu? He wants to take me every way!
Ahhhhhggggg...
I'll plunder every lovely pore until you're week and cry "no more!"
I tremble with fear! You're bound to pound the quivering lips of my Venus mound!
And then -- to prove your truly mine -- I'll plunder you, darling, from behind!
What of my lips, will you soil them too? When you've broken every other taboo?
I'll fill every slippery hollow; if you're obliging, then you'll swallow!
Take him to the infirmary for a plaster, and an ice bath. That'll cool him.
Has he hurt you?
 His stinking breath caused my eyes to run, that's all.
You mean to take us all down with you?
 Don't be absurd; it's only a play.
 It's only a play!
It was fiction, of course.
 Of course.
It was not inspired by circumstance.
No. It most certainly was not.
You ought to be ashamed, Abbe. Exploiting those drooling, pathetic cretins for financial gain --
That's not our intent --
-- a veritable freak show for tourists and curiosity seekers. Charenton is a sanatorium; she is not a circus. The theater is henceforth closed. As for your avowed friend -- playwright emeritus of the madhouse --
I'll do everything in my power --
 Do more. Otherwise, I'll be forced to report to the Ministry that the inmates are indeed running the asylum.
I hope you're satisfied; he's shut down the theater.
He can't do that to me.
How can one man possibly be so selfish?
We held a mirror up to the Doctor, and -- apparently -- he didn't like what he saw.
 What the devil --
If you won't be true to your word, then you've left me no choice.
But I kept my promise! I didn't publish --
Perhaps -- in time -- you'll earn them back through good behavior --
You can't --! You mustn't --! I've all the demons of hell in my head; my only salvation is to vent them on paper --
Try reading, for a change. The writer who produces more than he reads? The sure mark of an amateur.
Start with the Bible; it's cheerier, and more artfully written.
 That monstrous God of yours? He strung up his very own son like a side of veal; I shudder to think what He'd do to me.
You know what sacrilege is, don't you? The last refuge of the failed provocateur.
 I'll die of loneliness! I've no company but the characters I create --
Whores and pederasts? You're better off without them.
I have a proposition.
You always do.
Madeleine. She's besotted with me; she'd do anything I ask. She could pay you a midnight visit --
I don't know who you insult more; her or me.
"Part the gates of heaven," as it were --
 That's enough.
You're tense, darling. You could use a long, slow screw.
Good day, Marquis.
THEN BUGGER ME!
GOD DAMN YOU, ABBE! HAVE YOU NO TRUE SENSE OF MY CONDITION? OF ITS GRAVITY? My writing is involuntary, like the beating of my heart! My constant erection! I can't help it!
MAGGOT!
Where there's a will, there's a way. And a maniac is matchless for invention.
I've done just as you bade me; I've paid a visit to the woodcarver. He laughed and called me a whore, but took my money just the same.
I don't know which gives you greater pleasure; the objects themselves, or the humiliation I endure procuring them on your behalf.
And -- last but not least -- I've brought you aniseed drops and some chocolate pastilles.
Did you now, Madame?
They're filled with cream, yes? You know I shan't touch them, unless they're positively bursting -- erupting -- with cream.
What else have you brought that I might nibble upon?
Oh, Donatien... you mustn't...
Hm? Tell me. What other treats?
 ....shame on you, truly...
For fuck's sake, woman! BONBONS? I'm to sit here, gorging myself on useless trifles, sucking down your little sweetmeats, when what I truly need -- what I truly require -- are a few quill pens? Perhaps a pot of ink?
Forgive me, I beg you --
Don't you see? I've been raped! Far more egregiously than any of my wretched characters --
How was I to know, my darling?
How was I to tell you? By writing a letter? WITH WHAT, MY ASININE BRIDE?
I beg you, Donatien... as your wife... your only ally... you must stop making such a monstrous spectacle of yourself.
 You've come to lecture me?
To flaunt your deviance in public? Upon a stage?
They've put you up to this, haven't they?
You ought to court the Doctor's favor, not his contempt.
I ought to carve my name into his backside, and fill the wounds with salt --
You're here -- safe -- surrounded by brick and mortar; but my prison is far crueler. It has no walls.
Everywhere I go, they point and whisper! At the opera, they hiss at me when I take my box. When I went to church... the priest refused to even hear my confession; he said I was already damned! Why must I suffer for your sins?
It's the way of all martyrs, isn't it?
Give me back my anonymity, that's all I ask! Let me be invisible again!
Tell me; have you done anything to secure my release? NO! Have you petitioned the court? NEVER! Sought audience with the Emperor --
He refuses to be seen in my company! He blanches at the mention of your name --
It's a convenience, isn't it, having your husband locked away! You no longer have to hold your tongue, or hoist your skirts! Or crack your mouth, so I can put it to its one pleasurable use! YOU'RE NOT MY WIFE, NO! YOU'RE ONE AMONG MY MANY JAILERS, AREN'T YOU?
What in the name a' God --
Take this cow away; I can't look at her.
Perhaps you'll find a place for her in the West Wing, eh? AMONG THE HYSTERICS?
LOCK HER UP AS WELL, SO SHE KNOWS HOW IT FEELS! THE GORGON! THE SOW!
For a woman of humble origin, your wife certainly has refined tastes! When I suggest granite for the foyer, she's quick to counter with Peruvian marble. Peruvian marble! It costs a fortune to import!
 Whatever her heart desires, Monsieur Prouix.
I'd like nothing better, sir, than to grant her every wish. (sotto voce, to the DOCTOR) But on the modest sum you've accorded me -- I'm an architect, not a magician --
I must see the Doctor at once. It's a matter of dire urgency...
It is customary to write first, and request an appointment --
Desperation has driven me past etiquette, all the way to frenzy.
My schedule is not subject to the whims of lunatics.
I beg to differ, Doctor. You work in a madhouse. Your every waking moment is governed by the insane.
 I pray you: be succinct.
You're new to Charenton, yes? Perhaps you're not yet familiar with my husband, and his unusual case.
With all due respect, Madame, all France is familiar with your husband.  Grant us a moment alone, won't you, Monsieur Prouix?
Happily, sir. Your servant, sir.
Madame, please.
I assume you've come to plead for clemency on your husband's behalf.
Oh you do, do you? It is my dearest hope, Doctor, that he remain entombed forever, and that when at last he perishes in the dank bowels of your institution, he be left as carrion for the rodents and the worms.
I stand corrected, Madame.
If you can't cure him -- truly cure him -- then -- at least -- I beg you -- harness the beast that rages in his soul.
It's not so easily done, Madame.
You're aware, are you not, that it costs a great deal to house your husband at Charenton...
I pay his stipend every month, far more dutifully than I should.
That barely covers the cost of his room. There's nary a penny left over for appropriate treatments. Opiates to quell his temper. Restraints to chasten him when he misbehaves.
Perhaps if you were to buttress your entreaties with the means to oblige them...
I am not a wealthy woman.
But you've a pension, haven't you, from the sale of his books?
It's tainted money, Doctor.
What a beautiful thought, Marquise.
What thought is that?
That ill-gotten funds, borne of his degeneracy, might now effect his salvation.
If you're truly determined to step out of the shadow of your husband's celebrity --
Oh, but I am!
-- words alone are insufficient.
It's beyond perversity. That honor should carry a price tag...
Imagine; old friends once again deigning to kiss your hand. (kissing her hand, seductively) "Why, Marquise. Enchanted to see you.
Don't toy with me, Doctor.
Now is the time to secure your epitaph. The benevolent Marquise, Charenton's most revered philanthropist... or Satan's Bride.
Rest assured that your generosity speeds your husband ever faster toward a cure.
The Peruvian marble; without question.
I am eternally in your debt.
And I in yours.
Doctor... Can I impart to you his cruelest trick?
Of course.
Once... long ago... in the folly of youth... he made me love him.
Madeleine, my sweet... can you smuggle a paper and quill to me?
I don't dare. The Doctor's got his eye on you, sharper than ever now.
"Dr. Montalivet was -- politely put -- a diminutive man. When flaccid, his member was little more than a bobbin, and -- when enflamed -- it towered a mere four inches. To compensate, he strove to impress his lady love with a host of other endowments; fine- wine, fresh game, and a house as large as his other fortunes were small..."
We've ceiling beams en route from Provence, and -- next week -- a muralist arrives from Paris, to paint a trompel'oeil in the ballroom.
Doesn't that please you?
 Very much.
I'd prefer to have our brandy in the salon. There we can sit... side-by- side... before the fire.
I'd rather read, thank-you.
You prefer a book to your husband's company?
Well, no wonder; I'm only flesh and blood. That's no match -- is it? -- for the printed page.
Good evening, then. I hope you enjoy your solitude.
I apologize if I took a severe tone.
You can't be blamed for your naivet, not when it's chief among your charms.
Perhaps the Sisters failed to instruct you in the ways of marriage; the nightly duty of a wife to her husband.
Your linens!
Now or never!
If you won't read it to your own Mama, then perhaps you ought not to be reading it at all.
It's not your cup of tea, Mama.
Come now, darling, give it a read.
"Monsieur Bouloir was a man whose erotic tastes might discreetly be described as 'post-mortem.'"
"A habitu of cemeteries, his proudest conquest was a maid six decades his senior, deceased a dozen years."
 Oh, it's terrible! It's too, too terrible!  Well. Go on.
"The vigor with which he made love caused her bones to dislodge. Still, he granted her the highest compliment he accorded any woman..."
 Yes?
"Well worth the dig!"
You asked my name once; it's Madeleine.
Sweet, then? Like the pastry?
Haven't you a name yourself?
Ride away with me someday, and perhaps I'll tell you.
Your mother may be blind as a bat, but you've a keen pair of eyes, haven't you?
Mama's blind on account of the lye in the laundry kettles; soaking sheets for lunatics cost the poor woman her sight.
This could cost her far more --
 You'll get more from her with kindness than you will with force.
What could cause a tincture like this?
I'm only a laundress; not a detective.
 Now's not the time to be cheeky, Maddy.
Perhaps your kettles are stained with rust. Maybe the lye's turned rancid. Or maybe... just maybe...
...these sheets once belonged to our friend, The Marquis.
We've over two hundred beds. They could've been anybody's.
Such a fine thread-count? Decorated in his very own script?
She's lying. It shows in her face.
No! Don't you dare! Touch that, and I'll have your testicles on toast! MORONS! THIEVES! Help! That's fifteenth century, you goon! PUT THOSE IVORIES DOWN --
Almost done, sir.
Remember -- anything -- ANYTHING he might fashion as a quill. His entire room, stripped bare.
So! The Doctor cracks the whip, and you dance!
My bed, gone! Am I to freeze to death?
 His rug.
And my chaise -- am I being denied the privilege of sitting -- of plopping down my ass --
That's a Turkish weave, you numbskull; it costs more than you'll earn in your lifetime --
Valcour. His chair.
Fine! Take it! Take it all! Here --
Careful, it's slippery, you've no idea where it's been. A box of Kama Sutra powder, ready to dust whomever you please...
And we mustn't forget Mary, sweet Mary, the Jewish Whore; God's little harlot!
Virgin birth -- ha! An entire religion, built on an oxymoron!
Orvolle. His wine.  From now on, nothing but water at every meal --
-- water! --
-- and your meat shall be de-boned.
WHY THIS SUDDEN TORTURE?
Because your writing continues, unchecked.
I DIDN'T CREATE THIS WORLD OF OURS! I ONLY RECORD IT!
Its horrors, perhaps! Its darkest nightmares! And to what end? Nothing but your own morbid gratification --
Morbid gratification? NO! I write what I've seen; the endless procession to the chopping block. We're all lined up at the guillotine, waiting for the crunch of the blade. Rivers of blood are flowing beneath our feet, Abbe.
I've been to hell, young man. You've only read about it.
I am sorry, Marquis. Truly.
Tell me, Priest. These chastity vows of yours. How strict are they?
Suppose you only put it in her mouth --
PIOUS LITTLE WORM --
In conditions of adversity, the artist flourishes.
 Psst. Madeleine. I beg you...
What have they done to you now?
Tortures so arcane, so medieval, even I haven't the words to describe them. If you've an ounce of pity in your heart, you'll throw caution aside, and unlock my door...
God help me; I don't dare.
Don't be a dunce, child. I've a surprise for you. Now open the frigging door.
 My newest book begins at my right cuff, continues across my back, and completes itself at the base of my left shoe...
I don't believe it!
Take your leave, quickly, so you won't be blamed for my misbehavior.
You can't be a proper writer without a touch of madness, can you?
Traffic with the Devil, Maddy, and you'll pay the Devil's price.
Valcour! Valcour!
Feast your eyes!
Two chapters, one for each cheek! MY WRITING LIVES!
 "Sister Mary Quesnet had the most dextrous vulva in all France --"
 "-- so he set about removing her teeth --"
 "She'd never been with another woman, never mind her own mother --"
"-- twin orbs of delight -- with her puckered mouth, she swallowed him whole --"
"She wore her ass proudly --"
 Take this beast back to his cage.
Don't tell me. You've come to read my trousers.
Don't keep me in suspense. What'll it be? Fifty lashes? A night on the rack?
I won't sully my hands with him.
Nor should you. That's the first rule of politics, isn't it?  The man who orders the execution never drops the blade.
You're lucky it falls to me to punish you.
If it were up to the Doctor, you'd be flayed alive.
A man after my own heart...
What in God's name am I to do with you? The more I forbid, the more you're provoked!
I could be convinced to abandon my writing, quite voluntarily.
What on earth would that require?
A night spent with the partner of my choice.
You expect me to pimp Madeleine?
I wasn't talking about Madeleine.
OFF WITH YOUR CLOTHES!
Coulmier, you animal!
I DO NOT MEAN TO FLIRT, MARQUIS!
Oh, but you must, my pumpkin! Sex without flirtation is merely rape!
NOW STRIP.
My shoes; they're naught but punctuation.
My jewels, family or otherwise?
Your breeches as well.
You started this little game; you finish it. Or haven't you the courage?
 I thought not.
It's a potent aphrodisiac, isn't it? Power over another man.
Your wig. Remove your wig.
You'll no longer spread your insidious gospel, where art's magnitude is the breadth of its depravity! FROM NOW ON, YOU WILL NOT EVEN WRITE YOUR OWN IGNOMINIOUS NAME!
Are your convictions so fragile that mine cannot stand in opposition to them? Is your God so flimsy? So weak? For shame!
Don't flatter yourself, Marquis. You're not the Anti-Christ. You're nothing but a malcontent who knows how to spell.
I saw her with my own eyes. She put the key in the latch, just as proud as you please --
FREE HER. NOW.
He'll do no such thing.
It's a weak man who tests his mettle on the backs of children --
This child let loose the beast from its cage --
Madeleine's not wicked. It's the Marquis who's corrupted her. That's not her fault; it's mine.
Your dagger. Give me your dagger.
LEAVE HER DULY STRUNG.
I was wrong to free him, but so are you -- for taking all his treasures -- his quills and his ink --
Not now, or we're both done for.
If only blood will appease you, then shed mine.
You'd suffer in her stead?
Abbe, no --
Go ahead. Bind them. Bind them.
That won't be necessary.
If you want to martyr yourself, Abbe, do it for God. Not a chambermaid. Now put your clothes back on.
Had I known your taste in novels, I never would've taught you to read.
Don't say that; reading's my salvation.
But why must you indulge in his pornography?
It's a hard day's wages, slaving away for madmen. What I've seen in life, it takes a lot to hold my interest.
Ow!
But why heap such ghastly fantasies atop an already ghastly existence?
I put myself in his stories. I play the parts. Each strumpet, each murderess.
Why not act the role of heroines instead? Queen Esther from the Bible, or St. Joan?
 If I wasn't such a bad woman on the page, Abbe, I'll hazard I couldn't be such a good woman in life.
This is no place for a child like you.
Good God, Marquise --
I'm on the brink of bankruptcy; my husband's resources are all but exhausted. And to what end, I ask you?
This is neither the time nor the place --
If only you'd remained true to our contract! Opiates, for his nerves! Restraints! The man warrants a bed of nails --
 I can say, with the utmost sincerity, that every franc you've given me has been put to sterling use.
That much is painfully clear.
Gentleman, if you'll excuse us... only a moment... thank you, thank you...
You've no right to assault me in this fashion; I'll call for my footman. I'll have you removed --
Am I a cursed woman, Doctor? Must I be betrayed by every man I meet --
Ah! This must be the little Madame.
How do you do?
I must confess, I envy you.
Envy me? But why?
Your husband's name brings you honor, doesn't it? You can walk down the street without insult; without falling debris.
But suppose the whole world knew that all this splendor was the result of fraudulence? Of extortion?
Why has she come here?
Public scorn carries a terrible sting. Trust me. I'm a woman who knows.
It's libelous; you wouldn't dare.
And why not? My fortune, siphoned away. My reputation, past repair. I've nothing left to lose.  Silence my husband, or you'll come to know an infamy to rival his own.
Psst... Mademoiselle.... I've only a few doses of Spanish fly left...
Cat-o'-nine-tails here, guaranteed to raise a welt...
Curious, aren't you? If I can pleasure me-self, I can pleasure you, too...
 Yes?
 I'm in search of a book; perhaps you know it.
I've only got one copy left; rescued it meself from the bonfire.
Please hurry. My husband locks the door at dusk.
Sweet little thing like you shouldn't be reading such filth anyway.
I grew up in a convent, sir. Everything I know in the world, I owe to books.
"To the young maidens of the world..."
"Wrest yourselves free from the tyranny of virtue, and taste without shame the pleasures of the flesh..."
"Male power lies in the clench of a fist. But a woman's power lies elsewhere...
"...in the velvet cavity betwixt her thighs..."
It's late, Simone, darling. Put your poems aside.
Or -- if you prefer -- a Florentine tapestry?
Are you a literary man?
Excuse me?
I so admire men with an appetite for... books.
Madame, how could you... have you actually read this volume?
I've memorized it. Would you like me to recite?
There comes a time in a young lady's life when she has to cast book's aside, and learn from experience.
 That, Monsieur, requires a teacher.
I've good news; I hope you'll agree.
I've found employment for you both with the Widow Rougemont in town.
You'll have your own cottage on the grounds, and ten francs a month to use as you please.
You're more than a priest; you're an angel! Ain't he, Maddy?
It's because of the Marquis, isn't it?
In part, yes.
 He's not the man who's cast a shadow here.
The Doctor's a respected man, a friend of the court --
I haven't been to see the Marquis for ages. And I won't -- ever again -- I swear it. I won't speak to him, I won't even utter his name --
Is that a promise you can truly keep?
Charenton has changed; it's not safe for you here.
I've you to look after me, haven't I?
"Most Esteemed Dr. Royer-Collard. At long last, your Chateau is complete."
"You'll find everything in its assigned place."
"The chintz draperies, the English bell pulls, even the ivory door stops. Only one detail is missing..."
"...your wife."
Tell him I'm no fool. A prison's still a prison, even with Chinese silk and chandeliers.
"By the time you read this, we'll be long gone; bound for England or points beyond..."
Tell him -- if he uncovers our whereabouts -- you'll slit your wrists with a razor, and I'll plunge a hat- pin through my heart.
 You'd do that, rather than forsake our love?
No. But tell him I would.
Sign it quickly. Then you can ravish me again. On linens for which he so dearly paid.
Yes, on the satin twill... and then, I beg you, on the bear-skin rug in his study... and finally... as a crowning gesture... we'll leave puddles of love on the Peruvian marble!
Show your face! I've a right to see my Inquisitor! You've an aptitude for torture I really quite admire -- we're cut from the same cloth, you and I --
It thrills you, doesn't it, to hurt me thus? Look, you're solid as bone, you're straining your trousers --
Stop, I beg you! I'll write dainty stories! Odes to Virtue! If even your God will forgive me, so should you --
EACH ABUSE -- EACH TORMENT -- ONLY CALCIFIES MY RAGE! DON'T YOU SEE, YOU MORON? YOU SELF-RIGHTEOUS FUCK! THE LONGER YOU CONTINUE YOUR VEXATIONS, THE DEEPER YOU ROOT MY PRINCIPLES IN MY HEART --
You shouldn't be calling on me, not at this hour; suppose the nightwatchman saw you, or the cook --
 Don't turn us out, Abbe.
"Turn you out?"
It's a sin against God for me to refuse your kindness. But my heart's held fast here...
By whom? The Marquis?
 Mother's not half so blind as you.
Madeleine, I... there are certain things... feelings... we must not voice.
Why not?
They incite us to act. In ways we should not... cannot... a lesson the Marquis would do well to learn.
Don't. Shhh. You mustn't...
Go back to your room. Quickly.
What? What've I done?
Don't come back, not tonight, not again --
You'll hate me now, won't you?
I love you, Madeleine, as a parishioner -- as a child of God --
My vows are mine and mine alone. So are my failings. Forgive me.
Madeleine --
"...Lead us not into temptation..."
"...but deliver us from evil..."
They've taken your clothes?
They decreed me a savage, and now they have made me one.
Surely you've seen a man naked.
It's only been described to me. In your books.
I must say, in your novels you stoke the most unrealistic expectations.
You're far crueler than I, my sweet.
The Abbe's sending me away. He fears for me here, what with the likes of you --
Don't be fooled, Madeleine! He fears for himself. He's like a man starving, and you -- ha! -- you're like a pork chop dolloped with heavy cream --
He's a man of God; he's true to his vows.
First and foremost, he's a MAN. You remind him of that fact, and he resents you for it.
Don't you see, my sweet? In us, they see their own appetites, stripped bare. And so we are reviled; we are beaten, we are trounced, we are ridiculed, and we are silenced.  What's to be done? It's the artist's lot.
It needn't be; not if you've another story.
How do you propose I write it? With dust, upon the air?
You could whisper it through the walls of your cell.
Yes; that's it! A final volley from us both!
Go on, child.
Tomorrow night, whisper a new tale to your neighbor, Cleante. He'll whisper it to his neighbor Dauphin, who'll whisper it to his neighbor Franval --
 -- who'll whisper it to Bouchon --
-- whose cell lies next to the linen cabinet! There, armed with a quill of my own, I'll commit it to paper!
 Yes! You shall. Of course you shall --
 A tale more horrible than all the rest combined!
Something to make the angels weep, and the Saints to gasp for air...
Practice your handwriting, my lovely. So you'll do my words justice.
Madeleine --
You don't fear the Marquis' sway on me. You fear your own.
If you'd grant me a final favor, I'd like the chance to explain myself --
 Don't come any closer, Abbe. God's watching.
Psst... Cleante! Are you there? ARE YOU THERE?
Marquis? Is that you?
For fuck's sake, who else would it be? The witching hour's arrived; you've alerted the others, yes?
I'm no longer a man! I awoke to discover I'd turned into a sparrow!
Yes, well, I awoke to discover I'd turned into a cat. If you don't do as I say, I'll sink my little fangs into your drumsticks, and suck the marrow straight out of your bones.
 At your service, Count.
Now give the signal.
And so we begin...
"Our story concerns the prostitute Fanchon, whom Nature equipped with a tight and downy fissure between her thighs, and the most finely cleft ass ever moulded by the hand of God..."
CLEANTE!
"Fanchon was a prostitute with a tight and downy fissure between her thighs..."
...the most finely cleft ass...
My glorious prose, filtered through the minds of the insane? (a sudden, consoling thought) Who knows? They might improve it.
"...and the most finely cleft ass ever moulded by the hand of God!"
"...a harlot, she was, name of Fanchon, with a downy fissure and a heavenly ass..."
Psst... Bouchon...
...BOUCHON!
"...'S about a harlot named Fanchon, with a downy fissure and a heavenly ass...."
Bouchon! You've something for me, haven't you?
"...a downy fissure, and a heavenly ass..."
 You must remember each word, exactly as it's told to you. Yes? Yes?
"One day, Fanchon's first client was a surgeon. He ran his fingers across her naked skin, pulling apart folds of flesh, inspecting each and every follicle..."
"One day, Fanchon was visited by a surgeon. He ran his fingers across her naked skin, pulling apart folds of flesh, inspecting follicles..."
"One day, a surgeon came to visit Fanchon. He felt her naked skin, pulling at her folds, fingering every hair..."
"One day, a surgeon came to visit... feeling her naked skin... pulling at her folds..."
"One day, a surgeon... ran his fingers over her naked skin... her naked skin... naked..."
 ...yes, I've got that bit...
 "What shall I ready?" asked Fanchon. "My mouth, my ass or my succulent oyster?"
"What shall I ready?" asked Fanchon. "My mouth, my ass or my succulent oyster?"
"What'll it be?" she asked. "My mouth, my ass or my succulent oyster?"
"My mouth," she asked, "My ass or my succulent oyster?"
"Which hole? My mouth, my ass or my succ... succ... succ... succulent oyster?"
"None!" cried the surgeon, brandishing his scalpel. "I'll carve new orifices where... there... were... none... before!"
"None!" cried the surgeon, brandishing his scalpel. "I'll carve new orifices where there were none before!"
"None!" cried the surgeon. "I'll carve new orifices where there were none before!"
"None!" he cried. "I'll carve new orifices where there were none before!"
"I'll carve new... new... NEW... orifices where there were none before!"
"With that, Fanchon expelled a scream so extravagantly pitched, that the surgeon was obliged to tear out her tongue --"
 "With that, Fanchon expelled a scream so extravagantly pitched, that the surgeon was obliged to tear out her tongue --"
 "With that, she screamed so loud that the surgeon was obliged to tear out her tongue --"
 "She screamed -- so long and so loud -- that the surgeon was obliged to tear out her tongue --"
 "She screamed, so he felt he should -- he felt he ought -- to tear out her tongue --"
"To seal the wound, he took a poker from the fire --"
"...a poker... he took a poker from the fire..."
"A poker from the fire! From the fire... from the fire... the fire, the fire, the fire!"
Dauphin? What's the next bit? You must tell me the next bit...
 Please. The words. Tell me the words.
I can't hear the words.
Remember your manners, Bouchon, like the Abbe says.
HELP ME! ABBE! SOMEONE... ANYONE... OH, GOD...
Madeleine... MADELEINE!!!
Madeleine! Madeleine!
Madeleine! Madeleine! Madeleine!
Madeleine! Madeleine! Madeleine!
Madeleine --
Maddy? Where are you now? Maddy?
Madeleine --
It's her fault the Devil's unleashed himself upon us... it's her fault...
Madeleine! Madeleine!
 MADELEINE!
MADELEINE!
Abbe? Is that you?... He means to kill me... save me as you have before... I beg you... I'm sorry for all that I said... please... oh, please...
Quickly now! Altogether men, as one!
QUICKLY! Before it reaches the rafters on the upper floors --
Maddy! Where are you, child? Maddy!
Let me out your morons! Let me loose!
Now, now. Don't be shy. We've a nice surprise just waiting for you...
That's a good boy.
Of course, we mustn't blame Bouchon; he's merely one of Nature's experiments, gone awry. No discipline. No conscience. No morality.
IN FACT, IT IS OUR DUTY TO PROVIDE THOSE THINGS ON HIS BEHALF. IS IT NOT?
As you say, Doctor.
He was so impressed with the Marquis' tale that he chose to re-enact it, yes?
Perhaps you'll be so kind as to remind me of her name...
I beg you, Doctor, don't make me say it.
HER NAME, ABBE.
Madeleine.
So tell me: when you're called before God, how will you answer for Madeleine's death?
Murderer!
Oh, I'm to be blamed now, am I?
Your words drove Bouchon to --
For fuck's sake, Abbe! What am I to do? Police my readers as you police me? Suppose one of your precious wards had attempted to walk on water and drowned? Would you condemn the Bible? I think not!
An innocent child is dead.
 So many authors are denied the gratification of a concrete response to their work. I am blessed, am I not?
It's no secret that you loved her.
Oh, that's rich -- coming from her lapdog --
I saw the longing in your eye --
-- that was lust --
-- the passion in your heart --
Don't confuse one organ with another --
I know, because I felt it myself --
I WANTED TO FUCK HER, THAT'S ALL!
AND DID YOU?
IT'S NOT YOUR PROVINCE TO ASK.
You're no stranger to rape, Marquis; and yet with her, you cooed. You courted. You begged.
Go to hell!
Why was it you never took her by force?
Who's to say I did not?
Was it impotence?
NEVER!
Then it must've been love --
I FUCKED HER COUNTLESS TIMES! IN EVERY ORIFICE! AND ALL THE WHILE, SHE PLEAD FOR MORE --
 We inspected the body, Marquis. She died a virgin.
Give her a proper burial. In the churchyard, at my expense. Do not inter her sweet body in the same ground as the devils who inhabit this accursed place.
Your terrible secret, revealed. You're a man, after all.
All that remains now is your punishment.
I dare you. Stab my flesh. Which one of us will bleed?
Tomorrow, we'll cut out your tongue.
I've opium to numb the pain.
 Our intention here is punitive. If we numb the pain, what's the point?
Abbe de Coulmier!
I'm here.
Surely you'll grant me a final word.
 Of course.
Would that I were so easily silenced.
 My, my. You have exceeded my expectations.
And my own.
How is the patient faring?
Poorly.
And you? It must've been an ordeal.
I'm not the first man God has asked to shed blood in His name. I will not be the last.
Will you sleep soundly tonight?
 No, sir. Plainly put, I never expect to sleep again.
"In nomine patris et filii et spiritu santu..."
Ah!
Abbe! You'd best come quick.
He spat into his own filth. Made himself a kind of paint.
Dear God.
Free his mouth.
Mustn't do that, sir.
I must grant him his last rites.
I don't take my orders from you; not anymore.
You'd deny a dying man his salvation?
Shhh... shhh...  Dear Heavenly Father. Prove Your infinite mercy, and open Your gates to this man, no less Your child than any other.
There is... in each of us... such beauty... and such abomination. No... man... is... exempt.
Forgive him. Forgive us all.
There now. Kiss the cross.
NOOOOOOOOOOOO!!!
Welcome to Charenton, Abbe du Maupas.
I'm afraid that our endowment has shrivelled to a mere pittance; we're the laughing stock of all France. But -- on a happier note --
-- the hospital is now in my sole command.
Here each man must work for his keep.
The Charenton Press, Abbe.
The compulsive inmates set the type --
-- and the listless ones do the binding.
They've the satisfaction only a hard day's labor can provide.
Ever since his unfortunate death, there's been a surge of interest in his work. I'll use the profits to restore Charenton to her former glory.
Oh, Doctor.
You've a meeting with Herr Becker at four o'clock. He wants to publish a Swiss edition -- on gilded paper, bound in calfskin.
Thank-you, Charlotte.
My pleasure. Truly.
Have a look at page seventy-four; I've turned the corner down...
Of course, everything's not as harmonious as it seems. I hope you've a strong constitution.
We've still a few lone incurables. Prone to violence, to perversion.
So you're my successor. Yes?
Listen to me, Abbe, and listen well.
I've stared into the face of evil...  ...and I've lived to tell the tale. Now... for your own sake... let me write it down.
Gibberish, my friend. He rants and he raves --
Prove you've an ounce of Christian charity... Bring me parchment... ink... and a quill.
You'll do no such thing. This patient poses a grave danger, to himself and to others.
Don't you see --
 Don't you see, Abbe?
Some men are past redemption.
A quill! A quill, goddamn you! A QUILL!
Use it well; you owe her that.
"Beloved Reader... I leave you now with a tale penned by the Abbe de Coulmier, a man who found freedom in the unlikliest of places. At the bottom of an inkwell; on the tip of a quill."
"Be forewarned: its plot is bloodsoaked, its characters depraved and its themes unwholesome at best. But in order to know virtue, we must acquaint ourselves with vice. Only then can we know the full measure of man.
So come, I dare you... turn the page..."
