I want my fucking Zippo now! Walter starts yanking at his hair.
Walter, that is a behavior...
 Fuck you!
And you are making a choice. Her cell phone rings...
 Hold on...Hello?
God!
Don't you get it yet, Waldo? She's making a choice not to give you your lighter because you'll torch the Self-Help library again.
I'm Walter. Kill anybody recently? Run anybody over with a fucking car?
 That them?
Yes. Finally.
You're not letting her get behind the wheel are you? Are you?
Walter, you are only responsible for yourself.  This is all your stuff?
You know you never gave me your cell number.
 It was a mistake. I'm lucky I didn't get fired. We've discussed this.  Good luck.
Oh my god. Here you are. I thought you were going to abandon me in rehab. It's 12:30. You guys are half an hour late. I've been standing here with these lunatics. You look so great. Paul offers his hand to Rosa.
Hello. I'm Paul Buchman.
I'm Rosa. We met last time you came up.
 Of course, of course.
Let's go, let's go. Where is everybody? CAROL, a handsome woman in her 40's, waves from the car.
 Hey Carol. How are ya?
Hello Kym.
So where's Rachel? Carol, where's Rachel? Kym slides into the back seat as Paul loads the car.
Getting everything ready at the house.
There is so much going on at the house I can't tell you. You know your sister's doing all of it herself.
 My sister is bending the environment to her will? Really?
No wedding planners or anything like that. Just her and Sidney and a lot of their friends. She is so thrilled you're here. Is that everything, sweetheart?
 Yah. Can we go?
Is there anyone you want to say goodbye to?
God no.
So are all these busy young wedding helpers staying at the house? Because after eight months of constantly revolving cell mates and crazy people...
You weren't in a cell, Kym...
...AND groups groups GROUPS...
...And nobody was crazy, nobody was in a rubber room...
...I was looking forward to a little privacy for once.
The only extra person staying at the house is Emma, who's actually been staying in your old room. But she can move, I guess.
Rachel and Emma. Oh, great. How relaxing.
Nachtmare?
It's a nightmare so bad it's in German.
Rachel must be totally freaking out. Is she too tense?...
She's a wigwam!
 ...Is she eating? Or are all her latent food issues rearing their heads? Is she hoarding Snickers and Cool Whip under the bed like in high school? She never did put that one to sleep.
 I don't think that that's a problem for her.
No offense, Dad, but you never thought that was a problem for her. I'm kidding. It'll be great to see her. Foodies are the worst, though. They never get it together. There were six of them on my floor in the hospital and you could never get into the bathroom. They would cry at the chocolate pudding and one of
You'll see her and Andrew at the rehearsal dinner tonight.
Can we stop at the 7/11 please? I feel nauseous. I need something to drink.
I brought you a Diet Coke.
I prefer Pepsi from the fountain.
I saw you on COPS. Kym appears not to have heard. She pockets her change and leaves.
I'll do it, Dad.
Oh my god, you are just mi-nute!
Kymmie!
 You can't smoke in here-- Rachel and Kym squeal and embrace. Rachel is slightly awkward as Emma frantically tries to keep the billowing fabric from combustion.
Ow!
I have pins all over me. You look great!
I'm fat. Rehab makes you fat. All the vending machines. Look at you, missy! I'd swear to god you were puking again!
Hah!
Kym!
Emma!  No seriously, you're so tiny it's like you're Asian. Dad wants us to sleep in the same room so you'll be able to watch me while he's asleep and I won't sneak out of the house and blow dealers and shoot heroin.
Dad did not say "blow dealers."
I told him I'd just sleep in Ethan's room.
You can always shoot up in the tree house.
Kym, I'm not remotely surprised you're starting your drama already, however it's Rachel's wedding and this week it's about her.
Emma, you still have your tiny core of rage! What a relief.
So are you an actual shrink yet? Even though you're like twelve years old?
Psychology. Not psychiatry. You know the difference, right?
You should prescribe something soothing for Emma. Like Vicodin.
I will have my PhD. in a year and a half. And psychologists don't get prescription pads, right Kym?
They do in Guam.
Would you please put that out? Emma designed this dress and there's forty-seven yards of it and I'll go up like the Hindenburg. Kym takes a last drag even though she's down to the filter, then flushes the butt down the toilet in the tiny bathroom.
 Since when are you a designer, Emma?
A while.
She has this great little boutique in Greenwich. She says things like "you need a fabulous jersey pant."
That's so great. I think I heard that. Isn't this your fifth incarnation or something? Weren't you an actress? All the N.E.D.'s in the hospital were actresses...
N.E.D.s?
Non-specified Eating Disorder.
...they were constantly doing leg lifts under the sheets.
Angela Paylin is coming to the wedding.
 I ate so much cookie dough and did so many whip-its with Angela Paylin.
I know. And she confessed to you her secret Elvis Stoyko fantasy. I spied on you.
Oh my god...
Elvis Stoyko the figure skater?
In her fantasy, she was wearing her hair up and very serious, responsible eyeglasses, because she was a world renowned judge at the Winter Olympics for Men's Figure Skating. And Elvis Stoyko was skating in the finals to "Could It Be Magic" for the gold medal. And just when Barry Manilow is singing "Now/ Now/ Now and hold on fast..." there's this electric connection between them and he stops in the middle of his triple lutz...axel...
And he skates over to the judges table, all panting and sweaty, with his spangly Neil Diamond shirt open to the chest...
There is silence as he stops in front of her, their eyes lock, and he reaches for her hand... and Angela takes it!
To the roar of the crowd and the shock of the Olympic judges!
And he gets disqualified but he doesn't care!
Where'd she get the skates from?
I should call her right this second. Is she really coming? Who are all these energetic young people decorating the house?
She's got everyone she knows pulling elf duty.
 What about me? What am I doing? Rachel and Emma exchange a look.
Hello?
Well, I think you'll be assisting on floral detail. I want everything all drippy and luxurious and Mom's a little bit tasteful--
--Mom's in charge of flowers?
--and I don't want to upset her.
 And you're such a diplomat.
I am. I'm like Kofi Annan. In rehab they said I was the maternal hub of my peer group. I was always the referee for softball.
I was. I was the only one who could convince the methamphetamine freaks that no one was chasing them when they ran around the bases.
It's softball. Someone was chasing them.
Whatever. They have trust issues in the first place. I'm going downstairs to find Olive and get some unconditional love. Kym swans out of the room.
Anyway, I'm doing some lighting. I already got the candles and everything. Rachel and Emma share a look.
Forget Mom and me and the fucking flowers.
Speaking of dawgs, when am I going to meet this fiancee of yours anyway?
I'm making hot dogs and hungabungas! Who wants what?!
It's too hot!
I don't eat gluten, Paul!
What don't you eat?!
Gluten!
Where's Kym? Kym appears, down the back stairway, behind Paul, not shouting...
Here.
Besides I'm in my dress!
Ooo! Can I see?!
No!
Okay, okay!
Kymmie, what can I make you?
Actually there's a meeting I have to make. And I have to pee in a cup. And register as a general biohazard.
I'll drive you.
 Just tell me which car I should take. Paul doesn't say anything. Carol floats to Paul's side.
Which car?
Would you do me a favor, Kymmie...?
I have a license...
You wouldn't believe my insurance. And I'm not... that comfortable. Could we figure something else out?
Ow!
Hello? Hello?
Hi. I'm here to pee in a cup.
 She needs to pee in a cup.  Someone will be right with you.
Okay. I'm trying to get to a meeting.
The meetings are over in the other building.
I know that.
Someone will be right with you. Have a seat. Several people are waiting in chairs. They look at Kym.
Piss!
Shit!
Only once. My dealer. I was really broke. The room breaks up. Kym struggles to rearrange the fallen chairs. She is pissed.
Let's see...that was Tuesday...
Carol, she's here!
Where did you think I was?
I made you a sandwich, sweetheart! Meatloaf!
Kymberly!
No. You guys are not getting my design concept.
Oh. I thought you said Satan Claus.
I thought she said Panty Hose. Or Panda Claws.
Pandas are endangered.
I know. We're having an endangered Panda fleeing for its life for the ice sculpture. Or impaling itself on some bamboo. Kym! This is Sidney Williams, my betrothed. Sidney, meet my sister, Kym.
Oh my god. You're black.  Sorry I called him a dawg.
That's fine.
No biggie.
You don't look like a record producer. You're supposed to have a hapless lackey next to you with an umbrella.
Usually I do, but Mom's out simonizing my car. Funny, you don't look like Lucifer's Cupbearer.
 I got a haircut. Kym gives Emma a look. Emma smiles sweetly.
And this is Best Man Kieran.
Hey.
Hi there.
Well, that was so wrong --
Gee, thanks!
No, believe me, that was so lovely, LOVELY! But in the program -- as you know -- and we just heard earlier today in fact --
It is kind of lurid, isn't it? The best man and the maid of honor... furtively slipping off to the coal bin to have it off while the rest of the wedding party labors away at preparations for the big event.
I thought...isn't Emma going to be playing that role?
What?
"Maid of Honor"?
Oh.
I think I heard that was the plan.
Isn't the lilac fabulous? You look like a freesia.
 I love the grey.
We're all wearing lilac.
 Look at this. I love this. It's like a cloud.
You guys know how I am. I never wear lilac.
It's good to have a principle. Kym ignores her.
You wore a lilac sweater with a cat face on it on the cover of Seventeen Magazine when I was at Fat Camp.
Sure, but I got paid for that and I was on horse tranquilizers. So why aren't I the Maid of Honor? Why is Emma the Maid of Honor?
Because.
What does that mean?
I wasn't entirely sure when you were coming or even if you'd make it.
I wasn't sure if you'd have time for a fitting.
Bullshit. It's a sari. You take a bolt of cloth and wrap it around you. Jesus Christ I've been home one day and I can't get a straight answer out of anybody.
What are you talking about?
I'm talking about Dad offering me food every ten seconds...
Dad offers Irish Hunger Strikers food every ten seconds.
No. He has to know where I am and what I'm doing all the time because he has never resolved his own trust issues.
That's odd.
Shut up.
Blow me.
Oh, leave Dad alone.
I'd love to but he won't let me. I feel him watching me all the time. And Carol and you guys too.
I know I have nothing better to think about.
Everybody's looking at me like I'm the visiting sociopath. What are you people waiting for me to do? Burn the house down? They both look at her.
That was a mattress fire and it wasn't even at home! It was on a sleep over! God! I should just get HAZMAT tattooed on my forehead for you people.
Stop! You're like a harpy. Is being my "Maid of Honor" this important to you? I didn't think you gave a shit.
How could you fucking say that to me?
Jesus. Emma!
What?
Emma, would you be horribly offended and hurt if I asked you to step down as... (exaggerated, practically with quote fingers) ..."Maid of Honor?"
Yes.
Now Emma's got another reason to hate me. Like she needed one.
Is it what you want?
Not really.
Fine. The crown is yours, First Runner Up.
Thank you, Emma. No, thank you.
It's not about you.
It's about sisterhood.
Hooray for sisterhood.
Sisterhood conquers all.
And bludgeons all and pillages all and leaves all for dead.
 So the gray is not an option?
I don't know anybody at what's obviously the loser end of the table. Can I have your Chana Masala?
You've known most of those people since the eighth grade. You always pretend you don't know people.
Is it because you owe them money?
Where's Mom? Where's our mother? How could she not be here already? I haven't even seen her since I've been home.
She called a few times. She's "running a little late but should be here soon."
EMPTY_LINE
Kieran would you like some more Saag Paneer?
No thanks. Is there any krill?
Just kidding.
I can't believe Mom would be late for my release back into the wild.
And here I was thinking tonight was about Rachel!
Rach, I forgot to tell you, Carol got the helium tanks.
The words "Carol" and "helium" somehow...
Aren't there some rules about helium tanks?
 She wouldn't have any idea what to do with a helium tank.
Only on public property. I think.
Huge liability.
You're a lawyer?
Was. For about five minutes.
Say something legal.
Tort.
So what do you do now?
I help Sidney out with the business side of his stuff.
Sweet.
Here's Mom. The girls clamber up. Kym brushes curry off Rachel's shirt. ABBY, the girl's mom, and ANDREW, her husband, enter the dining room. Abby is a beautiful, wise woman in her fifties. Elegant, ladylike and graceful. Andrew looks foxy in his Abby-selected Armani, but he has the shoulders and knuckles of a heavyweight. As the girls approach, Abby acknowledges Paul across the room but makes no move to go beyond an exchange of long distance little waves and tight smiles.
 Hello, darling.
Kym! Did you get my note?
You look beautiful.
I'm fat. Rehab makes you fat.
Nonsense. You girls.
Hiya Kym. You look great! Hey Rachel!
Mom, where have you been? Is everything okay?
Wow. We were wondering if you got the dates scrambled.
Yes, everything is absolutely fine now.
Thank god. What a relief! Now the party can really get started.
 So Mom, you look great.
Darling, can you smoke that in here?
It's a private party, Mom. How's grandma? Still surly and irascible?
Oh, you know how she is. She sends her love.
Great. Same.
Honey, you should really put that out. It's not right. You know that.
Fine.
 I've known Sidney most of my life. He personifies many of life's grandest cliches, even as he breathes fresh life into most of them. He has never, ever "ceased to amaze me," and only in the best of ways. The magnitude of his artistry and his business acumen are matters of public record and delight. He's been a great friend "through thick and thin," and sometimes it's gotten very, very thin -- but he "stood by me" at all times, so it is my privilege and honor to stand by him on this profound occasion... TIME CUT -- Emma rises and bangs her glass with her spoon. It shatters.
You're paying for that, Emma.
Of course. I'd like to make a toast to the happy couple because I want to come visit them in Hawaii.
Humuu-humuu Nukku-nukuu...
A-Pu-Aa-Aa.
 You're moving to Hawaii?
Sidney's recording studio is there. Kym, stung, exhales a plume of smoke.
I've known the bride her entire life. Not biblically, except for that one time we french kissed at Evan Yassky's party in the ninth grade.
Film! I want film! Whoops and hollers.
Commence embarrassing story.
That wasn't it?
Rach, do you remember the time I was teaching you to drive in the Wagoneer and you sideswiped that taxi driver and knocked off his side mirror?
I have no memory of that whatsoever.
Do you remember trying to outrun him and leading him on a high speed chase across 96th street?
Gotta say no.
Well I would like to share with everyone that Miss Rachel-before she got her license or even had any idea how to drive- out maneuvered an irate, screaming cab driver across 96th street to the East river, handily avoiding two EMT guys loading an old lady on a gurney, while at the same time, applying Cocofudge Lip Gloss in the rearview mirror.
Wait, wait. She actually got the number of one of the E.M.T guys and went out with him. Twice.
 Was that the guy with the peroxide hair? Abby, not looking at her daughter, shushes her.
Anyway, when the taxi driver finally caught up with us, Rachel talked him down from his Middle Eastern fury in pretend Farsi, and ended up using his radio thing to call his dispatcher and recommend this guy for a commendation.
Mahamoud! Such a nice man.
We were driving so fast! It was one of the more exhilarating moments in my life...sadly...but I knew that Miss Rachel would make it okay. So here's to you, my dear, dear friend. A woman who can drive fast, pick up a paramedic, make up languages and get you home in one piece. Sidney, you are a lucky bastard.
Hear hear.
Where? Where?
 Relax, it's seltzer. Low giggles.
Hello. I'm Shiva the destroyer and your harbinger of doom for the evening. I want to thank you all for coming and welcome you even though I haven't seen most of you since my latest stretch in the Big House...
You all look fabulous. During the twenty minutes I was not in the hole for making a shiv out of my toothbrush, I actually did participate in the infamous 12 Step program. 12 Steps. Step-ball- change, step-ball-change. I'm still waiting for the change part. Some guests laugh. Sidney grins. Carol, Paul, Rachel, and Abby sit silently. Andrew moves in towards his wife.
But as they say, relapse is an almost always inevitable component of recovery, God knows I've got high marks in that mode!
Anyhoo, as more of you know than are likely to admit, one of the actual steps is about making amends.
So I spent a lot of time calling up people who barely remembered me - who barely remembered anything - and apologizing to them for bouncing a check or passing out in the bathtub and flooding their house, or otherwise involving them in sordid activities they were desperately trying to forget. I had to call this one girl who was, I think, fourteen, but I couldn't talk to her because her Mom took out a restraining order.
Anyway, I did a lot of apologizing to people who were practically strangers so I very much want to take this opportunity to not only congratulate my extraordinary sister, the future explorer in matters of the mind, thank you very much, and her adorable, impending husband on the occasion of their unprecedented nuptials.. but also to apologize to my extraordinary sister, the future explorer in matters of the mind, for... Everything! And I really mean that, Rachel. I've been a nightmare and you've been a saint. I'm so damned glad I'm here with you and Sidney and his family and ours, and I am so happy for you guys, I really am. So, I am hereby raising my seltzer in celebration of my laudatory sister and herewith making amends. Sidney, you are robbing our dysfunctional family of one of it's most vital ingredients, and it's only member still willing to lend me money. Enjoy Hawaii. La Chaim.
 One down. What's for dessert?
 I'm exhausted. Is there any watermelon?
Let me see.
 Nice apology.
What?
 Nice apology.
I was toasting you and I was making amends. It's one of the Steps. It's important.
I know what the Steps are.
I learned them in school, and I've visited you in various facilities, Kym.
Oh, god. Dad?
Amends. Noun. Often followed by 'for'. Offset a disability or frustration by development in another direction. Rachel blinks at her sister.
 Yes?
You've never said anything to me, that's remotely apologetic. Yet, all of a sudden, at my wedding dinner, in front of everybody, you decide to grace us all with your development?
Christ. I just got here. Carol hands Kym a slice of watermelon.
Here. Anybody else?
"Hey everybody! And guests! Just in case you might be thinking about something else for five minutes, like, I don't know, my sister's wedding-- they just cut me loose!
 You're so cynical. Dad, since when has she been this cynical?
She's making an effort, Rachel.
An effort. That's what it was? Because I think she presumes that since everything has always revolved around her disease, everything else is going to revolve around her recovery. That's what I think.
Rachel. She just got home.
Again.
I had no idea you were so angry, doctor.
I'm not.
Kymmie, your sister's got a lot on her plate. She's uptight about...
I'm not uptight, Dad.
She's meeting Sidney's folks for the first time, there's menus, there's all that live music, you're home, there's a thousand things to worry about.
Absolutely, a wedding will take it right out of you, boy.
Yeah, it would be so lovely if we could all just...
 You people need to purge. You people really should go to Nar-Anon or something. I mean it.
Oh my lord. Kym, we have gone through Nar-Anon, baby. You know that.
 You people? You mean the people in this room? Your family?
All of you people living in this little world of judgement and paranoia and mistrust. I can feel it every second. At the slightest sign of ingratitude or absence of atonement it's like the freaking Salem Witch Trials around here. I might as well be...
 Don't even start...
 Nobody can make you feel any way unless you let them, Kym.
Thank you Carol, for your inevitable pearl of wisdom, but you people are my family. You people make me feel like shit a hundred times a day. You try living under Dad's constant monitoring for five minutes and see how you like it.
What constant monitoring?
"I'll drive you!" "Carol, she's back!" "Don't sleep here, sleep there." "Here. Eat this." Dad, you're obsessed.
Please. That's hardly news. You may not know this...sure you do...the only way to engage Dad in any meaningful communication is to start the conversation with your name. "Have you heard from Kym? How's Kym?" It resuscitates him. It jars him into the moment. Like an alarm.
That's unfair, Rachel. And completely untrue.
And she's even worse! "Dad, you're never going to believe this, but I lost the car again." "Dad, you're never going to believe this, but that check you sent me never showed up and my landlord hates me." "Dad, can somebody meet me downstairs with cab fare and you're never going to believe this but I need to go to the emergency room and my neighbor's suing me and my checkbook got stolen!"
Gee, Rach, sounds like you have some paternal/sibling issues to work through.
Are you kidding? The two of you are like a double helix of crises. In the language of psychology one could say you both suffer from acute boundary issues.
Rachel! It's nice that you're getting your Ph.D--
 --Oh god--
--but don't be patronizing. It's ugly. It doesn't become you.
How come she gets to spout off about paternal issues, but god forbid I should even reference the "boundary thing," even though I actually know what I'm talking about?
 Hello? By the way? I'm not in crisis. I haven't been in crisis for a year.
You just got out of rehab!
Why is this so difficult for you people to understand? It's like you're not happy unless I'm in some kind of desperate situation. You have no idea what to do with me unless I'm desperate. God. Why am I the only one who's willing to say this stuff?
Oh, poor you. You're so much more evolved in your suffering. You know what? Your suffering is not the most important thing in the world to everybody!
What?
What?!!
I'm pregnant.
Congratulations! Oh my god! Etc!!! Paul hugs Rachel and kisses her hair. Sidney and Kieran hug. Emma hugs Rachel and kisses Sidney. Hugging all around. Kym is pissed. Paul grabs Kym and Rachel, and hugs both daughters at once. Rachel and Kym's faces are mushed right next to each other. Kym is impatient and stiff in the dreaded double mush.
That is so unfair!
 When did you find out?
Roughly about the day before we decided to get married.
I can barely believe it myself!
EMPTY_LINE
We told her at dinner.
She was so happy--
Wait! Stop! You can't just drop that tectonic bit of information into a completely separate conversation, Rachel. You can't do that!
Kym, you're going to have a niece!
Or a nephew!
Oh, god. Of course I'm happy for you. But you can't tell me when we're talking like this. It's a total set-up!
I am so fucking exhausted.
Dad, will you tell her I'm happy for her?
I just...I need to go to bed. Sidney?
Yeah, okay. Great idea. I'm beat too.
 You're leaving? In the middle of this conversation?
Yes.
Kymmie, she's pregnant. She's exhausted.
Of course. Fair enough. I'm off to raid the medicine cabinet.
She's not serious?
Oh, Rachel darling, and Sidney, I couldn't be happier.
She wasn't serious, was she?
Do either of you want anything? A sandwich? You must be hungry. There's cold Saagwala and a little Aloo Gobi left over?
No thanks, Dad. I really am pretty sleepy.
You're pretty everything! He mushes her face and kisses her cheek. Then he mushes Carol's face.
Holy cow. What a day. I think I've aged. I mean it.  Would you mind if I went to bed, darling?
 Of course not. I'll be up, Carol. I'm just going to load the dishwasher.
Let me help, it'll be quicker.
Don't mess with the King.
Okay,okay. Hands in the air, Carol leaves the room.
Wow. That's it for me too, you guys. Good night everybody. Kieran lays a manly, buddy hug on Sidney.
Congratulations, man.
Thanks, my friend.
I've never been so tired in my life.
Dad?
Yes, sweetheart?
I hope it's okay, I told Mom at dinner. About the baby.
Of course, lamb chop. I'm so happy! I'm going to be a grandpa!
I wish Ethan were here.
I know, sweetheart. Me too.
That was such a set-up.
She probably didn't realize she was doing it.
Ha! She's such an operator. Now I'm the bad guy again. Or still.
They're lucky to have you.
Thank you! Otherwise they'd have to pay attention to their own suspicious lives. Nobody actually wants me to actually change, you know. What would they obsess about? I'm like a blessing.
 No argument from me.
Dad had an actual "Blueprint for Rehabilitative Success" at my last intervention. On graph paper. He goes all out with the response, my dad.
Not unlike this great nation in which we live.
Meanwhile an ex-heterosexual ex-boy friend of mine actually rang the door once and tells my mother, "Kym is sitting in her apartment? With the shades drawn? Doing all this heroin and cocaine? And I think she's going to, like, die?" And Mom smiles and says "Thank you" like he was speaking in Sanskrit.
You can't actually speak in Sanskrit.
Exactly! I nodded out into the poached salmon at Dad's wedding two years ago and he told Carol he thought it was jet lag.
I did that in soup once. It made such a mess.
Look how exquisite this is. I can't borrow this. What do you carry in here? A vital organ? A tiny spleen?
Isn't it divine? It was grandma's. She sends her love.
I love the color. It's oyster.
You must promise me you'll stay healthy now, Rachel. You'll eat properly and get a lot of rest?
Yes, Mom.
How are things going at the house? How's Sidney?
Fine.
And his friend? What's his name?
Kieran.
He seems to be a big hit. Is your sister behaving herself?
I'm not exactly sure what that means.
Well, she needs a lot of acknowledgement.
You think?
Stop. It can't be easy. Everybody knowing her troubles.
Mom, she's sold syndication rights to her troubles.
Stop.
Mom, does it bother you at all, Carol doing so much wedding stuff?
Not at all, darling, I'm thrilled to be providing the flowers. You know how much that means to me. They're going to be exquisite!
Yes, I'm sure, and that's so great and so you, but you can do whatever else you want, you know. I'd love it.
Thank you, my sweetheart. I just know I'd be one of those wedding mothers who goes completely insane about the hors d'oeuvres. Andrew says I shouldn't be allowed near a shrimp puff.
Huh.
There are so many other people for you to worry about.
You're right.
But this is going to be the most beautiful wedding ever. And I hope your sister has a wonderful time too...Anyway I'm going to be a grandmother! Hooray!
Hooray!
I'm so excited. I have always wanted to be a grandmother. Even when I was thirty. Here. This ring was grandma's and she wanted you to have it.
Is she dead?
Rachel.
It's beautiful. Thanks, Mom. I hope it's a boy.
As long as it's healthy. Try the ring on. Rachel does.
You've always had the most beautiful hands.
Your hand is on the turf.
What turf?
The turf. The table.
So?
So we have to do it over now. It was your shot and you get to do it over.
What are you talking about?
Don't tell me you didn't know having one hand on the turf makes the play null.
Null. Maybe we should just play Pinball.
Sometimes playing next to each other is easier than playing together.
Who told you that?
My mom. She runs a pre-school.
What's Hawaii like?
You've never been?
Uh uh.
It's beautiful. I've got a nice place. My horse lives there.
Most people say "my girlfriend lives there" or "my wife lives there."
I live there and so does my horse. He's very possessive. We're working through it.
Have you had him a long time?
Yes. I may be a degenerate dope fiend but I love my horse. I don't have a wife or a girlfriend and I've been clean almost seven years. You could just ask, you know. Your sister doesn't ask direct questions either. She's incredibly cryptic.
That's a shrink thing, not a genetic thing.
We were in the park. I was sixteen and I was...I had taken all these Percoset. I was unbelievably high.
Carol, they're back! Carol emerges with a tray of lemonade as the rental is rolling to a stop. Kieran and Kym are climbing out of the car...
 Are you hungry? I made a Salad Nicoise. It's got Tuna!
 I was just thinking Salad Nicoise!
Can we get back to what we were doing, please?
All right. Where were we? Ah yes...The Rosenzwiegs. Can you please put the Rosenzwiegs somewhere far away from me?
They're your friends, Dad.
They're not my friends. I've just known them my entire life.
Just so you know, my mother expects to be carried in by liveried servants to the triumphant swirls of the harp and seated on a solid gold throne forged by nuns.
Really? Because right now I have her shoveling kelp in the laundry room. But I have it as a montage. Kieran and Kym arrive on the porch. Kym settles herself on a big comfy chaise.
Where are you putting me? In the stockade?
Kym, stop it. You're at the family table.
 Don't put me with Michael and Sandy.
They're not invited.
Sandy never called me back after I sent her an amends e-mail from Milestones. I hate it when people don't meet you half way.
The family table. With us.
Oops. That's nine. I thought you were having tables of eight?
 I am.
 Where are you putting me?
I was thinking of putting you with Cookie Puss and the Chicago cousins because they always get really drunk and need wrangling.
Can someone else do it? I was planning on enjoying myself.
You're the only one they're afraid of.
Still? God.
 We can move Grandma Rose and her companion. That's actually a great idea.
That's all I need. Another reason for Grandma Rose to hate me.
She doesn't hate you.
She's still mad about that thing at the Rite Aid.
Nonsense!
Whatever.
Dad, can I show you something in the kitchen?
 Rachel, what is this behavior?
 I would just like to have a day please.
Have all the days you want. Nobody is taking your day.
Then why are you defending her?
Defending her from what? Darling, look, no one's defending any body...
Why are you protecting her?
I don't want her to feel like we don't want her.
Sometimes I don't want her. It's my fucking wedding, don't you get it? I want my table to be perfect. Paul kisses her on the forehead.
Stop it. She's your sister.
Okay. Dishes? I'm going to load the dishwasher.
Paul! Paul, listen, I've been thinking about it. I did some preliminary sketches, I'd love to show them to you...
 He's not kidding.
And I think if you move the salad bowls to the upper tier you can get about 10% more stuff in the dishwasher.
Hee hee hee. Paul gives him a look. Sidney starts humming PAUL'S
Sidney, you're a nice young man. You make a lot of money and the world is your oyster. But you don't know shit about loading a dishwasher.
Sir, with all due respect, the mantle has passed.
Sidney has his sleeves up and starts to load.
What's the time limit?
Two minutes.
Are you comfortable with that, sir? I could spot you thirty seconds.
You young people should all go fuck yourselves.
Dad!
Ha!
You see Paul, I think your problem lies in lid placement.
Rachel, you're out of the will.
Observe.
Clean out this machine please, boy. So I can break out the whup-ass.
 He's breakin' out the whup ass!
You know one of the early signs of senile dementia is an obsessive need to organize.
Rachel, go fetch me my dart gun.
I find it touching but ultimately sad when the warriors of yesteryear are reluctant to lay down their plastic containers from Zabar's and retire gracefully.
Kieran, how's my time?
You have twenty-five seconds.
I need more dishes. You amateur!
What? No way!
Somebody give me some dishes! Kym yanks open a cupboard and passes a handful of dishes to Paul. He begins to load them.
Mom is handling the flowers?
Well, she's growing them and choosing them - but they are being delivered by her people.
Got it. Wow. Nurturing and growing things from the soil. Textbook, right?
Kym. Can we talk about the candles for a minute? Because --
Yeah, exactly! Candles and rice paper -- all lit up during the ceremony. It's a way of honoring Ethan, Ethan's... spirit, you know? It will look really nice too, mainly. Millions of little candles all over the place, and one huge rice paper candle - representing Ethan - glowing near the couple. That would be you and Sidney.
Oh my god, no. Don't. Just don't. That would kill Dad. And Mom. And me. And everybody. Please, Kym, please please please don't do that.
Geez. It was an IDEA. Lighten up, okay? They do that in Japan or India or someplace, okay?
Just drop it, sweetie, okay? Please?
Oh my god - fine! Done! It was nothing, okay. It was just an idea.
Are you getting a manicure?
You don't remember me, do you?
Nooooo.....
Rick James' limousine.
Oh. My. God.
Yeah.
I meant to come back. I swear. I even had...Oh god, what was it?
Peanut M&M's and Carbona cleaning fluid.
God is punishing me.
No, he's blessing me. It's cool: I talked him down.
 So, how are ya?
I'm okay. You remember we were in the hospital together, right?
We were...at Milestones?
No. I didn't go to Milestones. I didn't have the coverage. We were on the same floor at Loeb House. That was before you went to Milestones.
Where did you go after that?
My parents' house. Unemployment. It's all about the coverage, right?
I can't believe I'm seeing you again.
 I know. It's so weird.
Listen. Do you remember that exercise where we all had to write down experiences and pass them anonymously to another person?
"The Human Mirror: Seeing With a Fresh Perspective" Like Secret Santas of despair.
I got yours.
You drew poodles in the margins. I know it's supposed to be anonymous and everything, but you were so brave. The way your uncle abused you and your sister, and how it led to your sister's anorexia, and how you stayed up nights when she was down to fifty pounds holding a mirror to her face to make sure she was breathing. I'll never forget reading that, I swear to God.
 Do you want a tissue?
 I found it so profoundly inspirational that you could be there for her during your own incredible ordeal. I thank God that you came in here today. I never thought I'd ever have the chance to thank you. It was your strength that gave me the courage to confront my own abuse and help me turn my life around. Rachel slams down her magazine and leaves the salon. Kym runs after her. Both girls have foils in their hair.
Would you stop?
Don't touch me.
Don't you think his perspective might be a little skewed?
I never had anorexia. You sure as hell didn't watch over me while I was sleeping and WE DON'T HAVE A
 --That we know of!--
Ew!... (she stops and tries to remember) Wait... Rachel yanks open the car door, jumps in.
I wasn't hurting anybody. No one got hurt, Rach. Rachel slams the car door shut.
I'm hurt!
I hate her.
You don't hate her.
Don't tell me what I don't hate. I hate, hate the lies. She lied in rehab.
What do you mean she lied?
She lied to the people who were working with her. Who were trying to help her. She lies to everybody.
 Where is she now?
Where am I now, Dad?
Thank god. In here. Kym comes stomping in. Her foils are still intact.
Thanks for abandoning me. I had to take a taxi!
 Are you kidding me?
Why would anything I said or didn't say at the hospital hurt you? It wasn't about you!
Why not? Why wasn't it about me?
Rachel...
Dad, stop.  Why not? I was hopeful. I was on your side. I still am. Do you have any idea what that means? Do you have any idea how lonely it was with everybody gone into your terrible world? There was nothing left. Everybody was just empty. You think they remembered I was alive or needed anything during your... life? And after all that loneliness and Mom and Dad blaming each other and worrying and death and divorce and that stupid hopefulness and Dad not even being able to listen to music, you were in the hospital, lying about us! Instead of telling the truth about yourself!
God, Rachel...
Wait a minute. Wait a minute. What's this all about?
Apparently she has a whole history of sexual molestation.
What?
Kym, what is your sister saying? Did you say you were sexually molested?
Oh Jesus Christ. Not by you! It was a long time ago!
Were you?
No!
Why in god's name would you say something like that?
It was anonymous! It seemed like a good idea at the time. The three on the couch are stunned for a moment.
Dad, look at me. I'm right here. I'm telling you that after Ethan died I wanted her to get better or just die...
And look! She is better!
Nice, Rachel. Thank you.
 ...And Dad, she was lying and she didn't give a shit about the rest of us. Recovery can't work if you lie. She knows that. I was worthless to her. We all meant nothing to her.
You're not worthless. You're my sister. I love you guys. I need you guys, but you don't get to sit around for the rest of my life deciding what I'm supposed to be like. You weren't there. You weren't inside my head when I was fucked up and your certainly not there now. You haven't got a clue what I feel.
Kym, you took Ethan for granted. You were high for his life. You were not present for his life. You were high. He was like a pet to you. You drove him off the bridge. And now he's dead.
It was an accident.
Yes! I was stoned out of my mind! Jesus Christ, who do I have to be now? Mother Theresa? Did I use up all the love I'm allowed for this lifetime because I killed our little brother?
No, it was an accident!
I'm sorry! I'm sorry, okay? I'm sorry!
It was an accident. Kym, her hair still in foils, rushes out of the house.
Hello?
Hello Abby. It's Paul.
Hello Paul.
Is Kym with you?
No. Why? Did she go somewhere?
She left the house about an hour ago.
To a meeting?
She and Rachel had an argument.
Oh, dear. The night before her wedding? What was it about?
Look, Abby, it doesn't matter. She left the house. She took the car.
What was the argument about?
I don't know. They were both getting their hair done...
You don't know? Well what were they saying?
For god's sake Abby! I'm trying to figure out where she went before I call the police!
Well, last time you called the police looking for her she was upstairs, asleep in the guest room.
She wasn't asleep, she was unconscious! And I'm glad I called the police because it took twenty minutes to wake her up and at least something was being done!
Paul, I'm trying to help.
You're trying to dismiss everything!
She's not a criminal!
You're disregarding everything I'm saying, and this failure to listen, failure to understand what is right in front of you is exactly why you will never be able...
Paul!...
...To help her!
Maybe that's not what she needs all the time...
 What?
 I mean..I mean maybe she needs us --
-- Maybe she needs someone to be watchful and present and in her life!
-- To trust her --
She could hurt herself! She could be lying dead in a ditch somewhere!
All right! All right! Stop it!
If you hear anything, can I count on you to please call me?
 Can you count on me?...
Yes Paul, you can count on me to call if I hear anything.
Okay, then.
Goodbye.
Goodbye.
Abby hasn't heard from her.
She must feel awful.
 Excuse me, but when you're trying to get better there's a lot of pressure in rehabs... when someone isn't ready to take responsibility they create something, like an Uncle Stan, to take responsibility until they're ready.
 Well, she's always been creative.
I just wish we knew where she was.
Paul, Would you like me to go out and look for her? Rachel takes Sidney's hand.
You're getting married tomorrow. A hundred people will be here.
I'll go. I'm...I'll go. Any idea where she might have gone? Everybody looks at Kieran. No one responds. The phone rings. Carol goes to get it. Everybody waits.
It's the caterer.
I'll take it.
Ahhh....
You should call your father.
In a minute. I need a glass of water.
I've made some tea.
Here darling. Sit down. You look upset.
When will Andrew be back?
Not too late. He's at a dinner.
I spoke to grandma today. She sends her love. Is everything all right with the wedding?
Yes.
Good.
Dad was loading the dishwasher...
Mmm hmmm...
And I handed him Ethan's bowl with the trains on it by accident.
Why did you leave me in charge of him? Abby stops.
You knew. All of you knew. People told you. I was a junkie.
You were sick.
You know what I was. It's not like there weren't any clues. I stayed in my room for days. I passed out all the time. Where were you, Mom! What were you thinking? Why did you leave me? Why did you leave me in charge of him? Abby closes her fists and beats Kym with all her strength.
You weren't supposed to kill him! You weren't supposed to kill him! Kym curls up protectively and Abby suddenly stops.
Mom?
Both women stop, terrified, and look at each other.
Mom?
Get away!
...I never thought I'd have two little girls. Two little girls running around with their tummies sticking out in their diapers. They used to bite me on the nose, the two of them.
The house is festooned with peonies and lights and WORKERS hurrying about. Everything looks absolutely beautiful. CATERERS are running from their vans into the house with armloads of food, drinks, etc. Abby's flowers are being unloaded from another van. Decorative chandeliers are being carried inside. VALETS are setting up their car-parking operation (a decorated picnic table) at the foot of the driveway.
Um. Hi.
I'm the Maid of Honor.
Cool.
Hey, I know you. I used to work at the dog grooming place.
Hey, you holding?
Kymmie?
Oh my lord...
Are you all right? They meet at the circular driveway.
I hit Mom.
Oh my god is she...
Not with the car.
I have to get dressed.
Look at you! You need to get to a hospital!
Dad! I'm fine.
You can't just vanish. You can't just leave. You have to call. You always have to call.
Why don't you go find your sister? She didn't sleep last night waiting for you.
 Oh. My. God.
Holy shit.  She just showed up. Yes. Thank you.  Do you need a doctor?
You sent out the cavalry?
For your dad. Mostly for your dad.
I have to get ready. I have to get dressed.
Okay. I'm so glad to see you.
Aaaah! Fuck! She is dressed in her Sari and huge gold earrings and looks beautiful, despite a lack of sleep. Seeing her bashed up sister framed in the doorway, Rachel fights tears. She loses.
I hit Mom.
With the car?
No. No.
You hit Mom? You hit our mother?
Okay.
I got it.
Can you do this?
Okay.
The procession reaches the altar and the wedding party turns to face Rachel and Paul. Paul is beaming, walking his beautiful daughter from the side of the house and across the terrace to the living room. She glows in her white and gold Sari.
Kym reaches for Rachel's bouquet but Rachel has handed it to Emma by reflex. Kym tries to cover her gesture. Rachel and Sidney join hands.
We're here on this beautiful day...
Exactly. Everybody cracks up, especially Kym. She laughs a beat longer than anybody else.
 Excuse me.
I always just wanted to hear music, and when I met you I heard you. You are the most beautiful thing I've ever heard. Thanks for marrying me.
For you.  And you...ahem... 
On that note, and with the power vested in me by the state of Connecticut and Neil Young, I now pronounce you husband and wife.
Is this mocha? Or chocolate? He samples the frosting.
Baby Boy, let them take the picture.
Okay, Mom.
Yeah, Baby Boy. Rachel licks the frosting off Sidney's finger then gives his mom a big wholesome smile.
Can we all do this together?
Mom.
Dear God, bless this family and let them always invite us for dinner because my new wife can't boil water or fry an egg. La Chaim.
La Chaim. Rachel suddenly stands on a chair and bangs on a glass with a spoon.
Friends and family, family and friends! I have an announcement to make! I'm the bride and I'm knocked up! Surprised whooping and hollering.
I'm exercising my bridely, knocked up prerogatives and demand that
SFX: The Deejay spins an infectious platter .
Oh yay! Dad c'mon. C'mon Dad! This is my favorite song!
Ooo. Look at me, I'm dancing. She drags Paul to the temporary poolside patio dance floor. Paul is a fantastic dancer! Sidney drags his dad to the dance floor. He's dramatic and weird! Abby smiles politely at Kym and goes to sit down with Andrew. Kieran spirits Kym to the patio, where they join the dancers.
Fine.  I had an accident.
And, how are you, Bob?
God, never better -- Isaac opened his practice!
 If you're in need of any legal services...
Sorry...I'm not sure...
ALL EYES ON THE ENTRANCE -- the swimming pool lights shimmering outside as --
Emma, Kayra and Victoria are dancing together screaming until Cousin Joseph, Matt and another male friend muscle their way in.
 I can do a handstand!
That sucked.
Ouch. The girl laughs and runs off.
 Hi. Where's Mom?
Taking a break.
How can you take a break from your own daughter's wedding?
Mom doesn't actually participate in things.
And anyway, she hasn't even done anything all day.
I was thinking about getting her a cat. Cats are really annoying. At some point you have to deal with them, right? Or they starve to death and piss on your sheets.
It's so nice here. Suddenly Kieran sweeps into the room.
You can run but you can't hide! Kym shrieks as Kieran grabs her and plants a wet one on her, dipping her to the floor. They careen into Sidney and Rachel. Sidney grabs Rachel and starts molesting her.
 Stop! Stop you fiend! Rachel and Sidney fall to the floor writhing, sounding way too amorous. Then:
Hello?
Hello? The ceiling light flicks on overhead and Abby enters the living room. Blinking against the light, Rachel struggles to her feet smoothing her dress.
Mom!
Here you are.
 Hello Abby. You're lovely. And I'm not looking up your skirt. Kieran is busting a gut not to laugh.
I've been looking for you all over the place.
I'm in here.
They're bringing the car around.
All right.
You're leaving?
Darling, I'm exhausted. I had such a marvelous time. Those dancers were so beautiful. But weddings are really for young people.
You could make a little scene.
And here I am making it. Andrew and I are going to Washington in the morning.
Why are you going to Washington?
It's the mother of all fund raisers at American. I thought I mentioned it. We're going to stay on about a week - there are lots of meetings. I thought since you two are going away soon...  ...and I'm sure you don't want any grown ups around checking up on you...Will you still be here when I get back? Kym doesn't say anything.
What about our post-nuptial wedding gossip reconnaissance, Mom?
Well, can you come by early?
Um...
Of course you don't want to do that. It's your wedding night. You don't want to get up early. I have to get Andrew organized. He's hopeless. And we'll be back in a bit. It was such a lovely wedding, darling. She bends in for a kiss.
Wait! I want my mother and my sister!
Rachel...
Will you call me every day about...? She pats Rachel's tummy.
Yes. Of course.
All right, then.
Goodbye Abby.
Good bye, Son-in-law. Kym and Rachel watch their mother leave the room.
 I saw your mother's underwear. Kym sees Abby and Andrew crossing the front porch through the window.
I can't find my cigarettes.
Kymmie. Speak of the devil. You remember Susanna Galeano.
 Hi.
Hi Kym.
Susanna has a public relations firm and she just lost one of her assistants.
Weddings. They're an epidemic. Your father gave me my start about a hundred years ago.
No, no. Hardly. Well...
We could definitely use an extra body right about now. Have you ever thought about Public Relations?
The public is kind of afraid of me.
The firm is opening an office right here in town, just in time for the holidays. You could stay right here.
Have you ever thought about P.R. Kym?
Logistically it's just a dream. You could stay in your old room. I could chauffeur you around. You wouldn't have to worry about rent.
Have you already talked to Carol about me staying here?
Of course. She's fine about it. You could stay in your old room.
Why don't you give me a call on Monday, okay? She hands Kym a business card and kisses Paul on the cheek.
Goodbye Paul. It was just beautiful. Bye Kym. She leaves.
Suzy's first rate. P.R. can be fascinating.
You always said it was stupid.
I meant stupid. Do you want me to hold that for you? You've got no pockets.
I've got it. Thanks, Dad. I'll be right back.
Oof. You scared me.
Making a break for it?
Yeah. I have to go. I was coming to find you.
You don't have to slip away without making any noise, you know? I like noise.
I was coming to find you. My ride's outside.
...Okay...If you need anything...
If I need to post bond? Kieran hands Kym a folded piece of paper.
No. If you ever need anything.
Thank you, Kieran.
Maybe you'll come visit me in Hawaii?
That would be nice.
I have to go. Bye.
 Dad.
Hi.
Hi.
 Will you tell Dad?
I love your baby!
Me too.
 Bye!
