I am a common woman. I was born in a common cottage in a common village. My life would likely be no different from yours, were it not for the most uncommon events that occurred during the winter of the Year of Our Lord Thirteen Hundred and Twenty-five. I learned many things that winter. About people. About love. But mainly, I learned about loss. A MAN tosses a piece of wood into the flames, which turns out to be a LARGE CAMPFIRE.
To this day, I am the only person that I know to be living who knows the whole truth about that horrible time. This is my tale. CAMERA PULLS BACK, revealing THREE KNIGHTS, beleaguered, scarred, returning from the Crusades. Their armor is in disarray, adorned with souvenirs from the Middle East. They're camped in a clearing, their cart pulled to a nearby roadside. LIGHTNING flashes in the distance. One of them, a TEENAGE BOY who looks like his sword might weigh more than he does, hitches a nervous HORSE to a tree. He strokes the horse's neck, calming. Then: A WOLF HOWLS in the distance. The Boy suddenly looks nervous, too. He quickly joins the others at the campfire -- a FAT KNIGHT  and an OLD KNIGHT.
Did you hear that?
Hear what? The wolf HOWLS AGAIN. The Boy shivers, fearful.
The innkeeper told me --
I know what he told you. He told you about the Wolf. The Beast of Villiers la Croise.  The people of that village have been spreading that nonsense since before you were a tickle in your daddy's prick. I'd give you a whipping for believing it if I thought it would do any good. The Old Knight stares into the fire, then speaks.
I used to travel these woods. They told the same stories then that they do now. Only I heard them from a man who actually saw the beast with his own eyes.
Half the people in these parts claim to have seen it.
This man claimed it was the last thing he ever saw. The Wolf took his eyes. And half his face.  I saw his scars and empty eye sockets. His skin looked like it was on inside-out. It didn't seem to me like the kind of thing a man would make up a story about. He shrugs. His companions exchange an unnerved look.
Not far away, he makes out a shape in the darkness. The horse is on its side, WHEEZING helplessly. And there's something crouched next to it. We can't make out what it is, only a MAN-LIKE SHAPE, shrouded in shadow. Whatever it is, it's eating the horse alive. The Boy steps away in horror, then hurriedly stumbles back to his companions and frantically shakes them awake.
What the devil are you --?!
Wait, wait! Be quiet! He raises a hand. He's heard something. They listen. FOOTSTEPS. Approaching through the mud. The Boy's hand clutches a dagger, but the Fat Knight reaches out and stays him, terrified. The Boy follows his look. We never get a good look at THE FIGURE walking toward them. But what the men see scares them shitless. It stops near the cart. The men huddle together, watching as it slowly starts to walk around the cart -- -- then suddenly jumps atop it. The Figure is now above them. With each step it takes, the boards of the wooden cart CREAK and bend under its weight. A long beat. Then the Figure jumps down again, landing behind the men, startling them. It pauses. The men cower, shivering... Suddenly, the cart is flipped over as if it weighed nothing, revealing the terrified Knights beneath it. Lightning FLASHES. A shadow falls over them. The men scramble to their feet, but the Old Knight slips in the mud. The Boy stops to help him, but then the Old Knight starts screaming, something GROWLS, and the Boy stops short at what he sees. The Fat Knight runs.
Wait! We have to help him! The Fat Knight ignores him. The Old Knight shrieks. We hear the same TEARING and POPPING that this thing made while eating the horse. The Boy quickly looks around... ... sees a curved Arabian scimitar lying in the mud, fallen from the overturned wagon. He grabs it and as the Fat Knight runs, the Boy stands his ground. He hefts the blade. He's young, but he has used this before. A lot. Rain beats down on his face and lightning FLASHES as he confronts the thing that is devouring the Old Knight.
The Fat Knight runs through the forest without looking back. He hears a loud HOWL behind him and runs faster. Then he hears the Boy SCREAMING and blind panic sets in, his head filled with the sounds of his HEAVY BREATHING and RUNNING FOOTFALLS in the mud and crashing THUNDER. He's running so fast he nearly falls into the RUSHING RIVER that crosses his path. He quickly looks for a way to cross. The river is gorged and the water is moving fast. Then, in a flash of lightning, he spots it -- A fallen tree spans the river. The Knight hurries to it. The bark is smooth and slick from the rain. He can't stand on it. He has to crawl. He edges out on his hands and knees, his eyes flicking nervously at the waters surging underneath him. He has almost made it across... ... when he hears a LOW SNARL. He freezes. Looks back. Lightning FLASHES. The Figure, still obscured to us, stands on the riverbank behind the Knight. It GROWLS. The Knight tries to crawl away, but slips and nearly falls in the river. Then suddenly, the tree beneath him begins to move. He hangs on for his life and looks back. The Figure is on the tree behind him, slowly closing in. He starts to crawl, slips again. No way he can get away. He looks down into the racing river waters. Then back at the Figure closing in. The choice is clear. The Fat Knight dives headfirst off the tree -- -- but he never hits the water. Something grabs him by the legs and stops him short. He cries out and looks up at the thing that is dangling him helplessly above the water. He weeps. Then, abruptly -- -- he is yanked up out of sight.
There's a SIGN in the village green. Hanging from it is a wood plank with a crude drawing of a moon on it, three- quarters full. The moon has a vaguely sinister face...
Honestly, Isabelle. Just kill it.
I can't. It's the fifth commandment. Thou shalt not kill. Lucie rolls her eyes. Isabelle crouches, letting the spider crawl off her hand. She watches it skitter away, then calls to Suzette, feigning nonchalance:
I'm going to take Father some water.
All right. Don't be long. Isabelle smiles, grabs a bucket and ladle, and anxiously heads toward the village. Lucie watches her go, dubious.
Hey, there! Let one of these young lads get that for you.
I can do it myself. The Carpenter smiles. Of course she can.
Mother thought you might be thirsty.
That was very thoughtful of her. He gives her a knowing look as he ladles a drink from the bucket. Isabelle's gaze drifts from him to another woodcutter, working off by himself. His name is PETER . He makes eye contact with Isabelle for a moment, then wipes his brow and calls out to the WOODCUTTER BOSS.
I'm taking a break.
A break? Does that mean you're going to start working? The other Woodcutters LAUGH. Peter walks away. Isabelle's gaze lingers on him too long. Cesaire notices, not entirely comfortable with what he sees...
I was afraid you weren't coming.
You should know better than that.
He kisses her again, nibbling her neck. Isabelle opens her eyes, smiles up at him. Touches his face.
I think my sister's starting to suspect something.
Do you think she'll tell your father?
I don't care. I wish she would tell him. I want everyone to know. Besides, my father likes you.
Of course he does. Right up until the point where he figures out what I'm doing with his daughter. Peter glances back and Isabelle follows his look. Through the trees, she sees her father and the group of grim Woodcutters, still in serious conversation.
What's going on?
You haven't heard?  Three men. They found them this morning just off the Center Road. At least they think it was three men. There wasn't enough left to piece them back together. A long beat as Isabelle takes this in. Then:
Was it the Wolf?
Could it have been anything else? Isabelle shudders. No, it couldn't have been.
We should have killed that monster a long time ago.
I know. You say that every month.
He gives her a grim smile, then kisses her. She kisses him back, then tries to stop kissing him. It's not easy.
I'd better go.
Same time tomorrow?
Don't get used to this. I start my sewing lessons next week.
You really think you can go all day without seeing me?
I'll manage somehow. Pride is a cardinal sin, by the way.
I can think of worse sins I could be committing. She gives a cautioning look, then leaves with a smile.
Half full! Half full!
You mind your grandmother, understand? You're her student now, the same as the other girls.
Yes, Mother. Suzette hands her the basket with a proud look.
My last baby has grown up.
You're only encouraging him.
I know. THREE GIRLS  approach: ROXANNE (round-faced, cheery and instantly likable), PRUDENCE (practical, serious), and ROSEMARIA . A playful PUPPY tags along. Prudence and Rosemaria look tired, but Roxanne greets Isabelle with a big smile.
You look happy.
Aren't you excited?
It's too early to be excited.
I'm just trying to look on the bright side.
Well, stop it before somebody hurts you. The girls have a laugh at Roxanne's expense.
Did you hear about her and the Darley brothers?
Oh, no! Which one?
Both! On the same night! Isabelle gives an incredulous look and Prudence tries to contain her laughter. Rosemaria hears and looks back at them. She scowls at Isabelle.
Why does your grandmother have to live so far away?
What's the matter, Rosemaria? Having trouble walking? Prudence laughs. Roxanne frowns, disapproving. Rosemaria shoots Isabelle a dirty look.
Well, stop dawdling. Come on, come on. The girls hurry inside, but Grandmother stops Isabelle.
Your mother has warned you not to expect any special treatment from me?
Yes, ma'am. Grandmother eyes her a moment longer, then breaks into a smile and surreptitiously hands her a bright red apple.
Well, then your mother doesn't know me very well, does she? Isabelle smiles as Grandmother ushers her inside.
There. This is going to be my foundation. Everything I do now will build off of this. She shows the row of stitches to Roxanne.
Roxanne, is this a good foundation?
I don't know.
Why not?
Well... you haven't told us what you're making.
There's something else I haven't told you. I haven't told you why I'm making it. Before you begin any task, you must first always ask yourself why.
Why? The girls laugh. Grandmother gives her a patient smile.
Because understanding why you are doing something is the key to doing it successfully. So, before we begin today, let's be certain that we have a good foundation. Who can tell me why you are here?
To become seamstresses. To learn how to sew and mend clothes.
That's what you are doing. But why are you doing it? Blank looks. None of them have ever considered this.
Isabelle, your sister studied with me last winter. What does she do now?
She works with the women.
Why don't you work with them?
I don't know how to yet.
And how does that make you feel? Isabelle thinks for a moment, then has an insight.
Like a child. Grandmother gives her a smile, then continues.
You will be coming here every day for the next three months. During that time, I will teach you everything you need to know to be productive members of our community. But there is something far more important that will also be happening here. All the girls are paying close attention now, but Grandmother seems to be speaking directly to Isabelle.
You will be proving your worth and learning your place in the world. And I promise you, when you leave here for the last time, you will never feel like a child again.
I need to talk to you. Isabelle turns to face him, trying to stay nonchalant.
What about? Peter just looks at her for a beat. Isabelle turns and sees that the other girls have stopped to watch. Isabelle shoots them a look. The girls take the hint and leave. When they've gone, Peter walks up to Isabelle.
When were you planning on telling me?
Telling you what?
That you're engaged to be married to Henri Smith. Isabelle gapes at him, stunned and confused.
Henri Smith? Is this a joke?
Look at me. Just look at me and tell me you didn't know. She looks at him and sees it in his eyes. He's serious.
Who told you this?
Your father. Off Isabelle's look...
It's all been arranged. Your marriage to Henri will settle our debt to his father. Isabelle nods, shaken. Cesaire sees that she's upset.
We know that you and Peter have become friends. But you have adult responsibilities now. That means putting your family's interests ahead of your own.
So Henri Smith is in the family's interest and Peter is not?
Peter is a fine young man.
But what? He's poor? He's an orphan?
He's not one of us. His parents were outsiders.
Why? Because they hadn't lived here since Noah built the ark?
You mind your tongue. Isabelle is about to respond, when she notices something. Lucie is crying. A beat. Lucie looks up at her parents.
Do you realize how this makes me look? I'm older than her by more than a year. If anyone should be getting married in the spring, it's me. Everyone is taken aback. Lucie storms out of the cottage, angrily wiping tears. Isabelle watches her go.
This was your idea. Now I have both of them hating me. In the loft, Isabelle and Lucie are in bed... but Isabelle only pretends to be asleep so she can eavesdrop.
We knew Isabelle was going to be stubborn. It wouldn't be like her to simply do as she's told. She's too much like her grandmother.
That she is. What about Lucie?
She's a good girl, but she's still a child. Talk to her. You're her father. She'll listen to you. Isabelle glances over at Lucie... and sees that she's been eavesdropping, too. Lucie turns away, embarrassed. Isabelle gives her a sad look.
Hello, Isabelle.
Hello, Henri.
So I suppose you've heard.
Yes. My parents are very pleased.
And you? Are you pleased?
It's a very generous arrangement.
Not the answer he was hoping for. Another awkward beat.
Do you have any other feelings about it? About me?
I'm not sure. We've never really talked that much.
I know. That's why I asked you to walk with me. I wanted to talk.
What for?
Well... because we're going to be husband and wife soon.
Not until the spring festival. That's months away. A lot can happen in a few months. Henri seems disappointed. She sees this and reconsiders.
All right. What would you like to talk about?
I'm not really sure. I brought you this. He reaches into his pocket and offers Isabelle a flower. She takes it, suddenly blushing. But just then, she sees Peter walking toward them with another WOODCUTTER.
Well, I'm glad we had this conversation. Isabelle abruptly turns and walks away, leaving Henri surprised and a little hurt. She passes Peter, her eyes averted. He glances back at her as she and walks away...
You know, I had a sweetheart when I was your age, too. Isabelle looks up, intrigued in spite of herself. Suzette smiles slyly at her reaction.
What happened?
Nothing happened. My parents arranged for me to marry your father and that was the end of that.
Didn't you want to marry your sweetheart?
Of course, I did. But there's more to marriage than being in love. Love doesn't always last and it certainly doesn't fill your children's bellies in the winter.
You've never wished you could have married that other boy?
Not even once. Isabelle eyes her, still uncertain.
We need to talk.
You have to go through with it. You have to marry Henri.
Isabelle takes a step toward him. She hesitates, gathering her nerve to speak. Then:
I don't care what my parents want. They don't own me. I love you.
That doesn't matter.
It does to me. Doesn't it matter to you?
It's not our decision to make.
You sound like my mother.
Then maybe you should start listening to your mother.  It's over. They had to find out eventually. Don't turn this into something that it's not. We had our fun, but that's all it ever was. Isabelle looks up at him, shocked and confused.
I don't believe you.
Go home, Isabelle. Go home and grow up. Isabelle gapes at him. Peter walks away.
I don't believe you! He doesn't look back. She watches him go, heartbroken.
Full moon! Full moon! Full moon!
This doesn't concern you, Isabelle.
Yes, Father. Isabelle reluctantly turns and walks away. The girls follow her. Roxanne gives Lucie a concerned look.
What's wrong with Lucie?
How would you feel if you were in love with your sister's fiance? Isabelle stops short and gives Rosemaria a sharp look.
Lucie is not in love with my fiance.
Really? So she's just had a crush on him since she was ten?
As if she would really tell you something like that.
She didn't. She told my sister.  Did you honestly not know? Isabelle clearly had no idea, but tries to hide it. Just then, they walk by the blacksmith's shop where Henri works with his father, ADRIEN. Henri smiles at Isabelle.
Come on. We're going to be late. She turns away. Rosemaria gives her a smug look.
Rosemaria...? The other girls stop and hurry back to the fork, dismayed to find Rosemaria headed down the overgrown path.
What are you doing?
What does it look like?
You can't go that way. You have to stay on the path.
This way is faster.
But it's not safe. My brother says the bridge is rotten.
I don't care. It's bad enough working all day in that smelly cottage. It's not reasonable for them to expect us to walk that far every day on top of that. She walks away, defiant. The girls look nervous. Then:
If you get lost, nobody will come looking for you. Not tonight. This last part gives Rosemaria pause. She looks down the narrow path. It suddenly seems a little ominous. Grudgingly, she returns to the group. The other girls exchange quiet looks of relief. They continue on. The wind blows leaves across the abandoned path...
Everyone finish what you're working on. Your parents will be worried if you're not home before it starts to get dark. The girls begin packing up their work. Prudence sighs.
I wish someone would just kill that stupid wolf.
You can't just kill it. It's not an ordinary wolf. It's a devil- wolf. A servant of Satan himself. Prudence rolls her eyes. Whatever.
Who cares what it is? It's only one night a month. You stay inside, lock up the animals, and you don't go into the forest. It's never killed anyone from the village and as long as we leave it alone, it never will.
My goodness. I had no idea our young people were so woefully uneducated these days.  Our village was not always like this. When I was young, this was a very special place. Traders and merchants came here from lands I'd never heard of selling things I had never seen. King Philip the Bold even visited here once. But that, of course, was before the Wolf came. The girls listen attentively.
Your parents fear the Wolf because they remember when it did kill people from the village. Break down doors in the middle of the night and snatch children right out of their beds. Rumors began to spread that we were cursed. That was when our village began to die. And that was why my husband led a group of men into the woods to kill the Wolf. But instead, it killed him. Isabelle reacts. She has never heard this story before.
After that, people here didn't have much stomach to go hunting for it anymore. But something had changed. The Wolf stopped killing in the village. Even our livestock were usually safe as long as they were brought inside. So we decided it was safer to compromise. We gave the Wolf its one night a month, the night of the full moon, and it has left us alone ever since.
People still die.
Yes, but nobody we know.
Everyone knows what should be done. But it's not always easy to do what you know is right. Sometimes it's easier to settle for being safe. Isabelle frowns, unsatisfied.
You were right. About Peter. I was being childish.
You'll do as you're told. It's all been arranged.
The family gains the same no matter which one of us marries him. And I don't love Henri. Lucie does. Lucie looks up, surprised to be dragged into this.
She's right. It's not fair. I will gladly trade places with her. A beat. Then, without looking up, Lucie whispers:
Shut up. Isabelle is stung, the smile wiped from her face.
I'm sorry... I...
Please. Just shut up and mind your own business. A tense beat. Isabelle looks away, hurt and confused.
I'm the Wolf! I'm going to eat you up!
What on earth --? The Young Man glances at Isabelle. Something about the look in his eyes makes Isabelle go pale...
It's my little secret. A pinch will help you rest. A little more and you'll sleep through the end of the world. Grandmother smiles. Isabelle smiles back, weak.
I think I'd like that.
She had it coming, if you ask me. What the hell was she doing out there? Then they notice that Isabelle is right behind them, drawing a water from the well. Both men shift uncomfortably, but she pretends she didn't hear.
What is it?
Nothing. Grandmother curtly wraps what she's found in a washcloth.
Wherefore each man and woman that is wise, make him ready thereto; for we all shall die, and we know not how soon...
Take your brother home. Embarrassed, Roxanne quickly grabs Claude and drags him away, but he fights her, crying and kicking. Isabelle's family is met by Henri and his father, Adrien.
She was a good girl. We all loved her. He's looking at Cesaire and shakes his hand, but he briefly glances at Suzette. Isabelle notices the look, but then she spots Peter leaving the church. She makes brief eye contact with him before Henri interrupts.
I'm here for you, too. But her gaze follows Peter as he walks away...
A line has been crossed. The beast must be destroyed!
Your daughter crossed the line. She went into the woods.
She was taken. She must have been!
So the Wolf broke into your home and stole your daughter without waking anyone or leaving any sign at all?
It's been almost thirty years since someone here was killed by the Wolf. We've left it alone. Why would it suddenly come and take one of us now? Grandmother gathers her nerve and stands up.
I know something. Cesaire and Suzette give Grandmother surprised looks. She walks up to the table and hands Attewater the wadded up washcloth we saw her with earlier.
I found this. I believe it must belong to her attacker. Attewater unfolds the washcloth. There are a few strands of hair inside. He gives her a sharp look.
This is not animal hair.
No, it isn't. It's human. A stunned silence comes over the room.
No man could have done the things that were done to your granddaughter. It must have been the Wolf.
Yet she was holding a man's hair in her hand when she died.
What are you suggesting?
That the man and the Wolf may be one and the same. A low MURMUR works its way through the crowd.
A werewolf.
It would explain much. The Pope himself has declared that such creatures exist. The thought gives everyone pause.
Even if you're right, it doesn't help us. The woods are filled with hermits and strangers. If there's a werewolf among them, how will we find it?
There are experts in these matters. Men who find and try witches and werewolves. We could request the Church to send someone. Grandmother gives him a sharp look.
Not someone. You're talking about Father Solomon. This sends a ripple of comment through the room.
He is the Church's most successful werewolf hunter.
But what of his methods? The man once burned down an entire village just to root out one witch.
Unsubstantiated rumors. The Church has appointed him the Witchfinder General of all Christendom.
That is also unsubstantiated. Attewater eyes him, but Father Auguste stands his ground.
I have the utmost confidence in the ability of the Witchfinder General to determine the nature of the beast and put an end to it. I will dispatch a messenger in the morning.
Even if Father Solomon agrees to help us, it will take weeks for him to get here. That means another full moon. Maybe two. We must defend ourselves. A long, silent beat. Then, Henri stands.
He's right. The beast broke the peace, not us.
As will I. We all will. Henri is nervous, but tries to appear brave for Isabelle.
Roxanne waits for Isabelle and offers her hand. Isabelle smiles sadly and takes it. Prudence and Rosemaria let them catch up, then they continue on together...
Who gave you permission to wear that?
Nobody. I just --
Your Grandmother made that for Lucie. Take it off. Isabelle hesitates, then does as she's told. Suzette snatches the cloak away from her. A beat.
It was folded when they found her. Her clothes, too. Did you notice that?
Someone must have folded them. A beat. Isabelle is reluctant to voice her thoughts...
She was so unhappy. Suzette turns, her eyes narrowing dangerously.
What are you saying?
Maybe she went into the woods on purpose. Maybe she wanted to die. Suddenly: Suzette slaps her across the face. Hard.
Lucie's soul is at peace with God. Don't you ever again suggest otherwise. Suzette turns away in tears. Isabelle is stunned speechless.
Are you all right?
I'm sorry. I just need to talk to someone. Can I come in? Peter balks. Just then, a figure appears. Isabelle can't believe her eyes... It's Rosemaria. She's standing behind Peter, but it's clear that she's naked.
No. You can't. She wraps an arm around Peter's waist. Isabelle gives him a stricken look and runs away. Peter watches her go.
I hate the cold. Why can't we have lessons in the summer?
I suppose that would be easier. But then that would defeat the purpose. People only change when things are difficult. Isabelle gives her a look, understanding, then turns away. Grandmother puts a hand on her shoulder and then leaves her alone. Isabelle stares into the fire...
viciously beating Claude with a switch. Roxanne hurriedly pulls her off of him and he runs away.
I caught the little bastard watching us!
Watching what? Just then, the Merchant enters from the bedroom, adjusting his clothes. He hesitates when he sees Roxanne, then drops a handful of coins on the table and leaves. Marguerite puts the coins in a leather purse. Roxanne glares at her.
It's money, isn't it? You could make twice this your first time. They pay more for virgins. Roxanne recoils in disgust and storms out in tears.
Don't do this for Isabelle. She can't marry you if you're dead.
Your mother would be proud to see the man you've become. Henri is moved. He nods, at a loss for words.
My father died trying to kill the Wolf. For forty years, we have lived in fear of it. But no more. And never again. We don't need a Witchfinder General to rid of us this hell-hated beast. Because by God and all that is holy, the Beast of Villiers la Croise shall die tonight! The men CHEER.
You're not coming with us?
Are you joking? These fools are as likely to kill each other as they are anything else. Henri shoots him an angry look before moving on. Isabelle and Suzette say goodbye to Cesaire. Isabelle sees Peter through the crowd and quickly looks away. Just then, Henri and Adrien pass by. On impulse, Isabelle runs up and kisses Henri on the mouth. When she's sure that Peter has seen this, she quickly walks away. Henri gives Peter a gloating look. Peter scowls.
Get that torch out. Henri douses his torch.
Who was that screaming?
I don't know.
Look. He's gone pale. The others follow his look. There's a LARGE PAW PRINT in the snow. The Men stare at it. Suddenly, the same SCREAM pierces the night, this time coming from deeper in the woods. The Men exchange a wary look, but then start after it.
They run into a still clearing where the snow-covered brush is as high as their waists. They pause and listen. Only silence. They carefully make their way in the direction of the screams, quiet. Frost-brittle leaves CRUNCH under their feet... Suddenly -- something is moving in the brush. All they can see is the snowy brush violently shaking as it darts off, almost faster than it can be followed with the eye. It races right by the Merchant, knocking him on his ass, but it's gone before he can get a look at it. He startles as the Reeve pulls him to his feet.
Which way did it go? The Merchant points a trembling finger. The Reeve plunges into the brush after it and the Men follow.
The caves. It's in the caves.
Split up. Two groups. Half the Men take one fork, half the other. We follow the Reeve's group down a narrowing passageway. The Men crowd together, hunched low. The SCREAMS seem to be getting louder. The Reeve stops, listening. He turns toward a low crack in the cave wall. The SCREAMS are coming from inside. He shines his torch inside, lowers his head, and walks toward it. The cave
floor takes a steep dip. He has to keep one hand on the wall to keep from falling... Then suddenly, his feet skid on a patch of loose pebbles and he loses his footing. He slides down the steep floor, drops his torch, hands flailing, unable to stop himself, and then -- -- he finds himself falling off a low cliff into the darkness. He tumbles head over heels down a rocky slope and splashes hard in a shallow underground river. The torch rolls off the ledge above and falls on the shore amidst a shower of grit and pebbles. The Reeve gets up, grimacing in pain, grabs the torch. He shines it around... and sees Adrien. He's leaning against a rock, the ground beneath him wet with blood spreading from a dark wound between his legs. Reeve rushes to his side and crosses himself when he sees the wound. Then: a low, menacing, GROWL. He turns... There's a huge, SNARLING GRAY WOLF behind him. Adrien's pickaxe juts from between its shoulder blades. Reeve freezes, suddenly realizing that he's dropped his sword. He splashes around in the river, blindly feeling for it in the water. The wounded animal growls, blood bubbling from between its teeth. Reeve finds the sword -- -- just as the wolf attacks.
I heard your father wounded the beast. He was a brave man.
Did you hear what it did to him? It chewed off his private parts. Isabelle had not heard this. Henri doesn't stop working.
And I did nothing. I was too scared. I couldn't move. I just let my father be eaten alive. She moves toward him, but he shrugs her away.
No. I don't want you here. Isabelle gives him a sad look, then leaves. Henri just keeps hammering away on the anvil.
I thought your mother would be here. They used to be quite close. Isabelle gives her a sharp look, but Lucrece says nothing more. Isabelle looks down at the coffin with a sudden realization...
You told me you had a sweetheart before you were married. It was Henri's father, wasn't it?
Suzette freezes. She faces Isabelle, but doesn't answer.
Lucie was in love with Henri. She could have married him.  Couldn't she have?
We arranged for you to marry him.
But you gained the same no matter which one of us married him. So why did it have to be me?
I think you know the answer to that question.
No. You say it. Suzette's eyes well up. Then:
Lucie was Henri's half-sister. She was not your father's daughter. Isabelle suddenly looks ill. Reluctant, she asks:
Am I? Do you even know?
Yes. I was already pregnant when your father and I married.
Does he know?
No. And he must never know. Tears spill down Isabelle's cheeks. She walks away.
Isabelle!
I've found that there's no burden that doesn't at least seem a little lighter on a full stomach.
I don't know what to do. She wants me to pretend like I don't know. How am I supposed to go on living in that house?
You have a right to be angry with her. But try not to hate her. Too much hate will eat you alive. Isabelle nods and rests her head on Grandmother's shoulder.
You're a good girl. Isabelle allows a sad smile, places his hand back on his chest, and leaves.
I heard there's going to be a festival on the night of the next full moon. To celebrate.
A festival? I've never been to one!
My father says he hasn't seen one since he was a boy.
It's strange, isn't it? You think because things have been a certain way your whole life that they'll always be the same. Then overnight everything just changes. But Isabelle is distracted. Amidst the morning bustle, she sees Rosemaria laughing with Peter. Roxanne notices. Just then, they hear HORSES approaching. A lot of them. Everyone stops what they're doing, listening, suddenly apprehensive. The girls turn toward the sound and see... ... A DOZEN SOLDIERS in identical armor, silver helmets gleaming in the sun, riding into the square atop armored steeds. The Villagers gape at them in awe. The Soldiers ride escort to a WHITE COACH with a red cross on it, drawn by two horses: one white, one black. A FIGURE rides inside, cloaked in darkness. Isabelle gives it an uneasy look. Leading the Soldiers is the CAPTAIN OF THE GUARD, his helmet adorned with a blood-red plume. He brings the caravan to a halt in front of the Merchant's shop.
This is Villiers la Croise?
Yes, my lord.
Summon your bailiff. My master would speak with him at once.
Of course, my lord. May I ask to what does he owe this honor?
He requested the services of His Eminence, the Witchfinder General. You may tell him that he has arrived. All eyes turn to the figure in the coach. Only a bejeweled hand is visible, resting on the coach's window.
This is indeed an honor, Your Eminence. Solomon makes no response. His eyes are on the severed wolf's head on display. Attewater smiles proudly.
As you can see, our werewolf problem has been dealt with.
That is no werewolf. Surprise and outrage ripple through the crowd. Isabelle and Roxanne exchange a shocked look.
When a werewolf dies, it returns to its human form. If what you killed was a werewolf, then you would have a human head skewered atop that pole.
And I suppose you've seen this? A wolf turning into a man?
Solomon levels a look at the Reeve and slowly walks toward him. The Reeve is taller, but Solomon is, without doubt, the bigger man. The Reeve's eyes flick nervously to the armored Soldiers and their swords. A beat.
My wife's name was Pnlope. She was very pretty. And we were very happy. The Reeve tries to keep the confusion off his face. Attewater and Father Auguste exchange uncertain looks.
We lived in a village not unlike this place. And not unlike this place, our village was plagued by a werewolf. I went out with some men to hunt it. It never even occurred to me that we might actually find it. But we did. He has everyone's attention now. All eyes are on him.
It attacked me. All I saw were yellow teeth. I hacked at it with an axe and suddenly it was gone. There was blood on my axe. I had cut off one of its paws. I picked it up and put it in my sack.
Her name was Pnlope. She was very pretty. And we were very happy. Until the day I killed her. Solomon turns and gives Attewater a hard look.
Your werewolf is still alive. And I promise you, it will kill again.
I have examined the body of your blacksmith. There were bruises on his neck from where the beast held him in its jaws, squeezing his throat so that he could not scream.
But he did scream. We all heard him.
Only when it wanted you to. It used him as bait to lure you into the bit of theater it had prepared.
Theater? My father is not playacting. He is dead.
And I killed the beast that did it.
That's what it wants you to think. It did kill your blacksmith. But the animal that you killed was not the werewolf.
There was blood dripping from its teeth.
The blood was its own. The werewolf most likely wounded it earlier in the evening and left it in the cave for you to find and kill.
'Most likely,' he says. Have you ever heard anything more unlikely in your lives?
The Villagers laugh. Lucrece eyes them, disapproving.
Your Eminence, if what you say is true, that we were somehow fooled by this thing, it could not have done so without foreknowledge of our plan to hunt it.
That's correct. The werewolf does not live in the forest as you have rather navely assumed. It lives here in the village. Among you. There is a moment of shocked silence. Then mounting anger. Cesaire stands up and gestures to Henri.
You come here and tell us that this boy's father died for nothing. You accuse us and call us fools. Well, I believe what I can see with my own eyes. That wolf is dead. And I know it's dead because I was with the brave men who killed it.
And what of the festival?
The festival was to celebrate the death of the Wolf.
And we say that it's dead! We've spent every full moon for the past forty years cowering in our homes. We've earned a celebration.
And paid for it in blood! Attewater gives Solomon a nervous look. Solomon shrugs.
Have your festival. I will stay on here until then to ensure that you have the celebration you all so richly deserve. The Villagers seem appeased, especially the smug Merchant. A look passes between Solomon and his Captain. Isabelle catches it... and finds it unsettling.
Gloria Patri, et Filio, et Spiritui Sancto. Sicut erat in principio, et nunc, et sempter, et in saecula saeculorum. Amen.
I'm going to the festival.
All right then. She doesn't look up from her knitting. Isabelle leaves.
I'm sorry...
She hurries to help Claude. Isabelle and Prudence watch.
She acts more like a mother to him than a sister.
Someone has to look after him.
I know. But who looks after her? Isabelle gives Roxanne a sad look.
Take it easy, friend.
You didn't come with us. The night my father died. Peter's smile fades. Isabelle rushes to pull Henri away.
You stayed here and let real men do the work you didn't have the belly for.
Please, don't do this -- Henri brushes her aside, but too hard and she stumbles. Peter instantly grabs hold of Henri's wrist. Henri
overreacts and punches Peter in the eye. Peter falls on his ass, but the Villagers just laugh. Peter slowly stands, staring Henri down. He could easily lay Henri out... but decides against it. He leaves. Rosemaria reaches out to him, but he ignores her. Isabelle shoots Henri a look of contempt, then hurries off after Peter. Henri watches her go, ashamed.
Peter! Wait!
Why? So you can hit me, too?
I just want to make sure you're all right. Peter stops. He whirls on Isabelle, incredulous.
Why can't you just leave me alone?
You're bleeding.
So what? What's the matter with you? What do I have to do to make you stop caring about me? Isabelle is taken aback. A beat.
You think I want to feel like this? You think I enjoy feeling like a fool every day because I can't stop loving you? Peter's bravado falters. He can't completely hide what her words do to him. She looks up at him, realizing...
Why are you with Rosemaria? You hate Rosemaria.
I don't have to like her to get what I want from her.
You're a terrible liar. Isabelle takes a step closer and presses the palm of her hand against his chest. A beat.
There. You're heart is starting to beat faster. And the little black circles in the middle of your eyes still get bigger when I touch you. She gazes up at him. He tries not to look in her eyes, but can't stop himself.
You can tell me you don't love me, but I know what you're really feeling. I can feel it with my hand and see it with my eyes. Peter hesitates, then covers her hand with his own.
I thought being with Rosemaria would be the one thing you would never be able to forgive. I wanted you to hate me.  Isabelle, you are the best thing that could ever happen to me. And I am the worst thing that could ever happen to you.
How could you think that?
I wasn't born here. You and I both know what that means. I will always be a stranger to these people. Your parents will never let us be together.
That means less to me now than ever. We can leave here. We can go someplace where we'll both be strangers.
I can't let you do that. You have something here that I will never have. You have a place. You have
a family. With Henri you have a future. I'm not going to let you ruin that over me.
The only life I want is with you.
Isabelle... I'm wrong for you.
I know you are. I just don't care. She kisses him on the mouth, then quickly steps back, as if she did it before she could change her mind. Then he takes her in his arms and they kiss, long and hard.
I don't want to wait.
But not like this.
I can pack the cart tonight and we can leave in the morning.  Is that too soon?
It's not soon enough. She pulls him to her and kisses him.
You'd better get back before someone misses you. She gives him a lingering kiss. When she pulls away from him, he sees that she's crying.
What's wrong?
This feels like a dream. I'm afraid if I leave you I might wake up. He kisses her and holds her tight. Neither of them notice Henri, angrily watching from the shadows...
I've never seen it full before... Suddenly -- the CHURCH BELLS start to ring. Everyone falls silent. Confused looks all around. Then, somewhere in the dark... ... a WOLF HOWLS. The Villagers gasp. A WOMAN screams. People start to panic. Claude is knocked down.
Claude! Then something massive pushes its way through the surging crowd, bursting from the darkness... It's THE WOLF. The Villagers gape in horror. It makes the wolf that they killed look like a chihuahua. But there's something about its face that isn't canine at all, but ghoulishly human as it HOWLS at the moon. Suddenly, a group of Villagers throw off their cloaks, revealing themselves to be Solomon's armored Soldiers. Each of them draws a gleaming sword and points it at the Wolf. They've been lying in wait and now they have it surrounded. The Wolf SNARLS at them.
A moment later, Father Solomon gallops into the square on his armored steed, wearing a helmet adorned with a golden eagle. He tugs the reins and his horse rears back.
Get to the church, you fools! The Wolf SNARLS up at him. Solomon gives a battle cry:
The Wolf ROARS. Solomon and his men charge toward it. The Villagers caught between them trample one another to get away. A MAN gets knocked into the bonfire. Flaming logs fall off the pyre and set a cottage ABLAZE. The Wolf swipes Solomon's Soldiers aside like rag dolls. They bravely press the attack, but they're no match for the beast. It swats one of them right through the wall of a nearby cottage. The ambush has backfired. The Carpenter sees Claude on the ground and picks him up, trying to help. Claude fights and screams, but the Carpenter carries him away. Roxanne starts toward him -- -- and is bowled over by Solomon's horse. Solomon grabs the stake with the wolf's head atop it and charges at the Wolf, wielding the stake like a lance. The Wolf catches the stake in its jaws, throwing Solomon off his horse. Just as the Wolf is about to pounce on him, but more Soldiers join the fight. The Wolf sees them coming. It attacks Solomon's horse, biting its neck and dragging it to the ground. As the Soldiers close in -- -- the Wolf spins around, hurling the injured horse at them, knocking them down like bowling pins. Another Soldier tries to attack the Wolf from behind, but it smacks him aside with its tail and then smashes him to the ground with one enormous paw. Isabelle hurriedly helps Roxanne to her feet and drags her away from the ongoing battle.
Where's Claude? Where is he?!
Claude! Claude! Roxanne spots Rosemaria and grabs her, begging for help.
Have you seen my brother? Please! But Rosemaria just pushes her aside, panicked. An instant later -- the Wolf appears out of nowhere, jumping on Rosemaria. She screams, then -- CRUNCH. The screams stop. Isabelle and Roxanne gape in horror, then run.
Help... Help me... Soldier #2 ducks back from the window. No way. He's not going out there. Then: SNIFF. SNIFF. There's a shadow visible under the crack of the cottage door. And a big black snout pressed up against it, SNIFFING out its prey. Soldier #2 readies his sword... ... but then the Wolf moves away. A long beat. The Soldier edges toward the door. The shadow does not return. He slowly reaches out a hand to open the door... Suddenly, the door is blasted off its hinges and the Wolf bursts inside. It stands on top of the door, pinning the Soldier beneath it. The Soldier tries to raise his sword, but can't. The Wolf SNARLS down at him, drooling.
Claude! Claude!! The Wolf cocks its ears toward the voice, listening...
Claude! Where are you?! Isabelle drags her to the ground and covers her mouth.
You have to stop it. He can't hear you and you are going to get us killed. Do you understand me? Roxanne nods, crying. Isabelle helps her up -- and finds herself face-to-face with the Wolf. Roxanne screams. They run back the way they came, turn another corner --
Come on! Isabelle climbs the wall, but Roxanne's not going to make it. Isabelle jumps down to help her... ... just as the Wolf's shadow falls over the alley. The girls watch helplessly as the Wolf slowly walks toward them, SNARLING and glaring at them with its strange, near- human eyes. Then, inexplicably... the Wolf speaks.
Well, well. You look very pretty this evening, my dear. Good enough to eat. The Wolf's voice is sonorous, seductive. The Devil's voice. Isabelle stammers, unable to believe her senses.
It's considered polite to thank someone when they pay you a compliment. Are you being impolite, Isabelle?
How do you know me? Who are you?
Isabelle...? The Wolf GROWLS, cutting her off, and turns back to Isabelle. It moves closer. Isabelle looks into its eyes. They suddenly seem very big and deep, almost hypnotizing. She seems to fall into them...
What big eyes you have...
The better to see you with, my dear.
Are you going to kill us?
Kill you? Why would I kill you?
Then what do you want?
I want you, Isabelle. Isabelle gapes, dumbstruck and dismayed.
We are the same, you and I. We are both wild things. You show one face to the world, but there is another face that you hide. A fire burning inside you, waiting to be released. The Wolf sniffs her, starting at her feet and working its way up. It SNARLS with satisfaction, savoring her scent.
Yes. I can smell it on you even now. Suddenly, the Wolf jumps onto its hind legs, puts its forepaws on the wall on either side of Isabelle, its muzzle only inches from her face. She recoils.
Leave with me tonight. Run with me. The only shackles binding you are of your own making. Slip them and I can show you the world and every pleasure in it. Isabelle hesitates, then finds the strength to speak:
I don't know who you are, but we are not the same. I would rather die than go with you.
What about your fat friend here? Do you think she would rather die?  Come away with me. Or I will kill her. And I will keep killing until you agree to leave with me. Suddenly, the sound of MEN SHOUTING. The Wolf leans in, SNARLING. Isabelle turns away from its foul breath.
Choose now. Quickly. Isabelle trembles. She looks down at Roxanne's terrified face, torn. Isabelle closes her eyes. She can't do it.
Your silence has doomed them all. Just then, Solomon and two Soldiers turn the corner. The Wolf leaps atop the wall and growls down at Isabelle:
Come the next full moon, their blood will be on your hands. Then it jumps over the wall. Solomon scrabbles up after it, but the Wolf is already too far away. It looks back at him. A silent challenge passes between them. And then the Wolf is gone.
We are safe here. God protects his own house and those within it. Isabelle finds Prudence.
Is Peter here?
Peter? I don't think so.
What about Claude? Or my parents?
I haven't seen any of them.
Would you look for them? Please? Prudence nods and rushes off. Roxanne slumps in a corner, a dazed look on her face. A beat.
You talked to it.
It talked to us. A chill runs down Roxanne's spine. A long beat.
No. It only growled.  You heard it talk to you? Isabelle doesn't know what to say. She glances around to see if anyone has overheard. Then:
Do not speak of this to anyone. Roxanne nods, but eyes Isabelle warily. Isabelle turns away, afraid and confused.
Mother! Father!
Is she dead?
No, thank God.
He sits up, revealing Suzette's face, which has been horribly slashed from scalp to chin. Isabelle recoils.
This man is alive!
Are you bitten? Shivering, the Soldier nods. The Captain closes his eyes. Solomon stands and turns to Father Auguste.
Step back. Confused, Father Auguste does as he's told. Then, before anyone can react, Solomon draws his sword and plunges it into the Soldier's heart. Everyone startles.
The werewolf's bite is the same as death to a man. Stunned silence. Solomon turns to the Villagers.
The dark days have returned to your village. Your homes are no longer safe. The Wolf will return. Again and again. And it will not stop until it has sucked the marrow from all your bones. Unless you stop it.
cower in your beds and die like sheep? A long beat. The Villagers shiver and not just from the cold. But no one speaks. Solomon turns to Attewater.
It appears my expertise is not as appreciated as I was led to believe. He turns to leave. Suddenly, Attewater steps forward.
Wait! Attewater drops to one knee. Solomon stops and gives him an appraising look. Then Solomon turns to the Villagers. After a moment, the Reeve drops to his knee. One by one, the Villagers kneel to Solomon. Henri and Father Auguste are among the last, but they reluctantly kneel as well.
We will do what must be done. A beat. Then Solomon offers his hand. Attewater kisses Solomon's ring. Henri and Roxanne exchange uneasy looks.
I was up all night worrying about you. Thank God you're safe. But something about her expression gives him pause. She looks up at him, struggling with what she has to say.
Peter... My mother's hurt. I can't leave. Not now.
I thought you didn't want to wait.
I don't have any choice. It's not just my mother. Something else happened last night. 
I can't tell you about it. I just have to stay. Peter nods, but his face darkens. A long, tense beat.
I meant everything I said. This isn't what I wanted.
Of course not. You'd better go home and see to your mother. She gives him a sad nod, then turns to go. She pauses at the door, but he doesn't look at her. She leaves.
Silver. This is our most potent weapon. One blow will kill it.
If it's that powerful, how can we possibly hope to stop it?
We must find it in its human form. Who among you do you suspect? Attewater and Father Auguste trade uncomfortable looks. Neither of them wants to speak up first.
It has not survived this long by being obvious. The signs will be subtle. Insomnia. Restlessness. Strange behavior. Strange smells.  Well, none of them smell good, but we must start somewhere.
What about the hair Madame Ordeville found on Lucie's body? It was dark. The person we are looking for must have dark hair.
Perhaps. Unless it planted the hair to make us think that.
Yes, it's trying to trick us again. This has been happening for forty years. It must be an old man by now. The hair should have been gray.
Not necessarily. It may be the child or grandchild of the werewolf that first struck here.
The curse is hereditary?
It is. But it effects men and women differently. A man can inherit the curse. Or he can be turned simply by being bitten. Solomon turns toward the fire and stares into it.
But women are immune to the werewolf's bite. In order for a woman to be turned, she must inherit the curse. But even then it will lie dormant unless she eats human flesh. Only then will the bite of a male werewolf change her. Only then can she become a werewolf and capable of passing the curse on to her own children.
But it could be a woman.
Of course. It could be any one of you. Attewater and Father Auguste exchange a wary look.
Has Claude come home?
No. Nobody has seen him.
He's run away before. He'll be all right. Roxanne nods, unconvinced. Prudence joins them. They all exchange a sad look.
Well. I suppose this is all of us. The three of them turn and start toward the woods...
It talked to you. And you understood it?
As clearly as I do you now. Grandmother fixes her with a serious look. A beat.
Word of this cannot be allowed to spread. Do you understand me?
Roxanne will never speak of it. She won't even talk to me about it. A long beat. Isabelle is working up her nerve. Then:
I have to do what it wants.  I have communed with an unholy beast. What does that make me if not cursed?
I don't know. But I won't allow you to go with this devil and live as its concubine.
But if it comes back for me and I don't go with it, then it will kill again. If I have the power to save even one life, aren't I compelled to do so?
This is why it chose you. You're a good girl with a gentle heart. It's using that against you.
But how could it? Unless it really does know me? Isabelle and Grandmother exchange an anxious look...
I spoke with your father. I broke off our engagement.  I saw you with Peter. Don't worry, I didn't tell anyone. Isabelle can't hide her shock. She shifts anxiously.
What about my family's debt?
I have no interest in ruining your family. I will have you out of love or not at all. Isabelle is dumbfounded. Henri turns and walks away...
They've caught the werewolf!
He's been hiding in a hayloft. They caught him trying to steal food.
But who is it? An angry crowd has gathered. Solomon's Soldiers are all that's stopping it from turning into a lynch mob. Isabelle finds Roxanne in tears, trying to force her way through the crowd.
What's wrong? What's happening? Roxanne doesn't answer, just plunges into the crowd. Isabelle goes in after her. Cesaire tries to stop her.
Isabelle! Get away from there! She follows Roxanne to the front of the crowd, just as two Soldiers haul a figure out of a barn -- it's Claude.
Claude!!
It's not him! It can't be!
If he's not the werewolf, then why was he hiding? What's he afraid of? The Soldiers carry Claude off and Roxanne stumbles after them. Isabelle tries to follow, but Cesaire stops her. She can only watch helplessly as Claude is dragged away.
Salus populi suprema est lex.
He turns and sees Grandmother walking toward him. She nods to the inscription above the entrance. 'SALUS
The good of the people is the chief law.
You read Latin.
And write. I was studying to be a nun when I met my husband.
He must have been some man.
He was a priest. She grins. Is she being serious? Attewater bristles.
You know the boy is innocent. He's being tried because he's different. Because Father Solomon knows he can turn us against him.
Father Solomon is here to protect us.
A wolf hunting sheep picks off the weakest ones first.  This is just the beginning. She enters the manor hall. Attewater watches her go.
You say you saw the accused perform magic?
In broad daylight with my own eyes. Everyone here has seen it.
So it was common knowledge that the accused was a conjurer?
Yes, Your Eminence. I saw it for the Devil's work, but they laughed at me and paid him money. Isabelle and Grandmother exchange a concerned look. Through a SERIES OF CUTS, more witnesses are questioned:
shifts uncomfortably as Solomon interrogates him...
Are you aware that it is the custom of witches and devil worshippers to hold their black sabbaths in cemeteries?
Yes, Your Eminence.
And do you know of their practice of dancing with invisible devils during these rituals?
I have heard it said so, yes.
Is there one here today who you have seen dancing in your cemetery?
 Yes. But I don't believe he meant anything by it. It was in jest.
So you consider the black mass to be a jest? There are suspicious WHISPERS among the Villagers. Father Auguste eyes them nervously. A beat.
No, of course not.
Then point him out. Father Auguste reluctantly points to Claude.
Roxanne weeps as her mother testifies against Claude.
What is your relationship to the accused?
I am his mother.
And where is his father?
I don't know, sir.
Well, what is his name? She pauses. The crowd eyes her, disapproving. A beat.
I never learned his name, sir.
You say a man whose name you cannot recall is the father of your child? What can you tell us about him?
Not much, sir. She lowers her eyes, ashamed. Solomon considers her.
Almost as if it were a dream?  Certain devils called incubi can collect human semen and then transfer it to women as they sleep. A woman who unwittingly conceives in this manner would not be a whore. She would be blameless in the eyes of God.
Marguerite's eyes spark, suddenly hopeful...
You remember almost nothing of the man who impregnated you. Is it not possible that there was no man? That the accused is not the product of your own sin, but the foul offspring of a werewolf whose semen was placed in you by an incubus while you slept?
Yes! Yes, I remember now! He came to me in my sleep! It wasn't my fault! God save me, it wasn't my fault! Roxanne buries her face in her hands.
We have proven here today that behind this veil of feigned idiocy is the fiend that has plagued your village. However, in order for the sentence of death to be carried out, the Church requires either a confession or the testimony of a witness who has seen the accused in his transformed state. Since the accused has refused to confess, this court calls upon its final witness. Isabelle Ordeville. Isabelle is stunned. All eyes turn toward her.
On the night of the last full moon, you were attacked by the Wolf. You looked it in the eye. And the one thing a werewolf can never change is its eyes.
He gestures to the Soldiers. They grab Claude and force him to look at her.
Look into his eyes, my child. Do you see the beast in them? Isabelle gives Claude a pitying look. Solomon watches, expectant. Then:
It isn't him. It can't be. He was with us when the Wolf attacked. Solomon is taken aback. Surprised MURMURS in the room.
Is this true? Is there another here who can speak to this?
I can! It's true! I saw him!
She's his sister! She'll say anything! The suspicious Villagers agree. Roxanne gives Isabelle a desperate look. Then Isabelle spots the Carpenter.
He was there! He carried Claude away! He saved his life! Suddenly, all eyes are on the Carpenter. He shrinks back. He glances at his WIFE. She stares at him. Hard.
She is mistaken. I did no such thing. Isabelle is shocked. She looks to the other Villagers, but no one will speak up. Solomon frowns.
Very well. Since no one here can bear witness, we must extort a confession. This court shall reconvene tomorrow at dawn. Solomon leaves. Claude is dragged out of the room by Soldiers. Isabelle gives Grandmother a helpless look.
Why wouldn't Father Solomon listen to me? Doesn't he care that Claude isn't guilty?
He'd rather let an innocent boy die than risk letting the Wolf go free.
But the Wolf is free. And the moon will be full in two days. The full weight of this hits home. Grandmother leans close, lowers her voice.
We both know it will be coming for you. You must leave here tomorrow and never return. A long beat. Isabelle reluctantly shakes her head.
I cannot leave.
You have no choice. The alternative is unthinkable.
What is unthinkable is that I should be responsible for the deaths of everyone that I love. I'd rather spend a lifetime of misery than let that happen.
The Wolf's sins are on its own twice-damned soul, not yours.
But what if it was you it wanted? Would you go with it to save me? Or would you leave me to die? Grandmother doesn't have a fast answer for that. Suddenly, a HIDEOUS, INARTICULATE SCREAM echoes in the night. Isabelle and Grandmother exchange a grave look.
Father Solomon. Extorting his confession. Claude's screams sending chills down their spines.
You should have condemned him today. At least it would have been quick. Cesaire turns and goes back inside. Isabelle and Grandmother continue to listen.
How can you just sit there and listen to this? Marguerite ignores her. Furious, Roxanne stands up and grabs Marguerite's coin purse.
Where are you going with that? Roxanne doesn't answer, just pulls on her cloak. Marguerite grabs her, but Roxanne turns and shoves her to the ground. Marguerite starts to get up, but Roxanne snatches a knife from off the table and points it at her.
Don't you touch me again. Ever. Roxanne angrily throws the knife aside and leaves.
Enough of this. Let's eat. He gestures to the Scribe, who hands Attewater a document.
What is this?
A statement declaring that you heard the boy confess. All it requires is your signature. Or your mark, if you cannot write.
But he has not confessed. How could he have? Solomon studies Attewater. A beat. Solomon shrugs.
Very well. Listen more carefully this time. He gestures for the Soldiers to throw more wood on the fire. The FLAMES leap higher. Attewater goes pale. All he hears are screams. Solomon stands next to the bull. The flames gleam off the brass, casting him in hellfire.
Listen to how he sings of his love of Satan. How he despairs that he will never again copulate with the dead or sink his teeth into the flesh of pregnant women and eat their unborn children. Attewater gives Solomon a horrified look, suddenly realizing. Father Solomon is insane.
Stop this.
No. You stop it.  We both know he is guilty. But I cannot legally execute him without a witness or a confession. Sign this and we have a confession. Attewater glares at Solomon, then angrily signs the document. Solomon gestures to his Soldiers, who open the bull and pull Claude out. Attewater has to look away.
Suddenly, Solomon grabs Attewater by his collar, drags him across the room, and forces him to look at Claude. Thankfully, we do not see him, except in deep f.g. His naked flesh is actually smoking. Attewater cringes.
This is the business of werewolf hunting and you had best develop a stomach for it. Because where there is one werewolf, there are two. And where there are two, there are more.
A girl to see you.
Well, I've yet to come across a girl I wouldn't at least look at. The Captain ushers Roxanne inside. She meekly steps forward. A beat.
I assume you came here with a purpose. She hurriedly empties Marguerite's purse on the table in front of Solomon. A mere handful of coins.
I would like to bargain for the release of my brother.
Your brother has just confessed.
What? That's not possible!
It has been witnessed and notarized. He will hang in the morning.
Roxanne stands frozen, gathering her courage for what she is about to say. Realizing that she has no choice.
I have more than money to offer you. She raises a trembling hand and starts to open her bodice, but Solomon interrupts.
What do you think you are doing?  Do you have any idea who I am? I am the Witchfinder General. I have fought in the Holy Land. I have waded hip deep in blood and resisted all the temptations of the infidels. And you seek to stay the hand of justice with such a tawdry bribe? Leave here, girl, before I have you whipped. Solomon gestures for the Soldiers and they forcibly drag her away. Roxanne struggles against them.
Wait! I have something else! I know the name of a witch! Solomon looks up sharply. The Soldiers stop. Solomon crosses the room and stands glaring down at Roxanne. She cringes. This is the hardest decision of her life...
Spare my brother and I will tell you her name.
Then: A low MOAN in the dark. Isabelle startles. She looks up, her eyes going wide in disgust and horror... It's Claude. He's locked in a man-shaped cage, his body covered with hideous burns. He moans again. Isabelle chokes back her disgust and goes to him. She lightly takes his hand, shaken to her soul at the sight of him.
How are you acquainted with the accused?
We were friends.
And how long did this friendship last?
All my life.
And in this time, have you ever known the accused to converse with devils?
Yes, Your Eminence. On the night of the last full moon, she talked to the werewolf. And later she told me that it also talked to her. Isabelle gives Grandmother a frightened look. Cesaire clenches his fist. Solomon turns to Isabelle.
What of this? Do you deny having conversed with a werewolf? She looks to Roxanne, who trembles with emotion. Then:
No. I do not deny it. The crowd REACTS. Solomon quiets them with a look.
Describe this encounter.
It spoke, just as a man speaks.
And what was the nature of your conversation with it? Isabelle hesitates. Grandmother holds her breath.
It told me... It promised to leave here and never return. But only if I leave with it. Roxanne gives her a stunned look. A heavy silence falls over the room. Even Solomon is surprised. Then:
But who is it? Make her tell us who the werewolf is!
I don't know! I swear I don't know!
It doesn't matter who it is anymore. It wants her, not us. Let's just give it what it wants. A long, tense beat. Heavy silence. Nobody speaks.
We should not allow ourselves to even consider this.
I think we already are.
What's the matter with you? You know her. You all know her.
Do we? Did we know she could talk to werewolves?
She could have run away. She could saved herself, but she stayed here because she cares more about you than she does herself.
Peter reacts. He and Isabelle exchange a look. Now he understands...
If she stayed, she did so because she is in league with it. Let this be her punishment. The crowd loudly AGREES. Solomon considers. Grandmother gives Attewater a dark look. Then:
Very well. Isabelle Ordeville, in light of your willing confession, it is the decision of this court that on the night of the next full moon, you be left to the mercy of the werewolf. Cesaire silently buries his face in his hands.
No! Henri bursts to his feet, turning heads. Isabelle is led away. Roxanne can only watch, helpless and ashamed.
The first victim was her sister. The second was her fiance's father. Then Rosemaria, who everyone knows she hated. And don't forget her mother, with half her face missing. All this death around one girl... Prudence has heard enough. She turns away.
I'm here for my brother. He gestures. Roxanne turns... and sees Claude's body dangling from a makeshift gallows. He's been hanged.
Roxanne falls to her knees. The rope around Claude's neck CREAKS as his body sways in the wind.
I'm not going to let these worthless shits sacrifice you to save themselves. We have to find the real werewolf before tomorrow night.
That's impossible. Even Father Solomon doesn't have the first clue.
Father Solomon doesn't know the things that I know.  I am the oldest person in this village who was here when the Wolf first came. I remember the old days. And what is happening now is much worse.
What was it like in the old days?
The Wolf never used to attack in the open like it did at the festival. It's a coward at heart. It would kill whole families in their homes, but it always stayed in the shadows. It never would have shown itself in the old days.
It's grown bold.
Or perhaps it made a mistake.
Isabelle considers this. A beat as she realizes...
But who would want to kill Lucie?
Your parents said that the Wolf broke into the house and took Lucie. We both know that's not true. What really happened? Isabelle hesitates, reluctant.
My mother made me swear I would never speak of it.
Why would you think such a thing?
She was in love with Henri.
She took her own life over a boy?
What other explanation is there? Grandmother thinks. The pieces are fitting together...
Hello, Henri.
You spoke up very loudly in Isabelle's defense today. That was very brave.
I just said what I felt.
You're under no obligation to stand in her defense. You broke off your engagement to her.
I never stopped caring about her. I would do anything for Isabelle.
As her sister would have done anything for you.  Lucie was in love with you. But you knew that, didn't you?
I had no control over the way she felt.
She kept it secret from almost everyone. Even Isabelle didn't know. Did you tell anyone?
Never.
Not even your father?
I didn't have to tell him.
So he knew your secrets, did he? Henri picks up a hammer and goes back to work. Angrily nailing a shoe to the horse's foot. BANG! BANG! BANG!
You were the only one who could have lured Lucie out on the Wolf's night. And none of the men who went hunting for the Wolf remember seeing you after the sun set on the night your father died. Henri faces her, clutching the hammer...
Why are you doing this?
Because I want you to confess. You killed Lucie. And your father. And God only knows how many others. And if you won't admit it, then I will tell Father Solomon and we will lock you up until the moon rises tomorrow night and you can no longer hide your guilt. As she says this, a slow look of dawning realization comes over him. Realization and horror.
It's you. Henri steps closer to her, menacing. Grandmother steps back and finds herself bumping against the closed door.
My God, it's you. You're the Wolf. I can smell it on you now.
Smell what? What are you talking about?
The night my father died. I saw the Wolf pass by, dragging him by the neck. I was so terrified I couldn't move or make a sound. I remember every detail of that moment. The way the moonlight gleamed off the Wolf's coat. The soundless way it moved. I even remember the way it smelled. A thick, greasy, musky stink.
You accuse me and I'll bring you down with me. All they can do is take my life. You have more to lose.
But who do you think they'll believe? I'm the blacksmith.
They know me. You're the crazy old woman who lives in the woods.
Then I'll have to prove it.
Unless you can, you'd best keep your mouth shut. Another beat. A stand-off. Grandmother's hand finds the door handle. She turns it, stumbling outside --
Are you ready for me to take you home? She looks back. Henri stands in the doorway, still holding the hammer. She eyes him, measuring, suddenly hesitant. Cesaire gives them both an uncertain look.
Stop the cart. Cesaire pulls the reins. Grandmother calls out:
Prudence, come with me. I have some blankets I want you to mend for Father Auguste. Prudence sighs and climbs up into the cart.
You take these blankets to Father Auguste the moment you're finished. Understand?
All right. Cesaire helps Grandmother out of the cart.
Will you want a ride into town tomorrow? To say goodbye to her?
Yes. First thing in the morning. He nods shakily and leaves. She closes the door behind him and lets the faade of calm fall from her face. She puts a trembling hand to her mouth, mind racing...
Full moon! Full moon! Full moon!
Show yourself! Coward! Another beat. The veil settles and is still. Then: A FIGURE lunges out of the veil with its arms reaching out at us. It grabs Grandmother's throat in one hand and wrestles the cane from her grip with the other. She struggles, but she's far too weak for her attacker. The Figure whips out a knife. Grandmother sees it, but can do nothing. The knife flashes. Fat drops of blood splash on the floor. Then the Figure drops Grandmother and she crumples, lifeless. A pool of blood slowly spreads out from underneath her. The Figure steps over the widening pool and picks up the letter Grandmother was writing. He quickly scans it and angrily tosses it in the fire... Then he hears something. FOOTSTEPS, crunching through the snow. He hurries to the window and peers out... It's Roxanne and Prudence. Roxanne looks like hell, but here for lessons as usual. The Figure ducks out of sight. A moment later, they're KNOCKING on the door. Their feet are visible under the crack. The Figure sidles alongside the door, BREATHING heavily. Another KNOCK. On the floor inside, the pool of blood is expanding toward the door... The Figure sees it. He puts a hand on the hilt of his knife... then whispers to the girls through the door, disguising his voice with a dry, old woman's rasp:
Go away. Outside, Roxanne and Prudence exchange a curious look.
Are you all right?
I'm sick. You can't come in.
You sound awful. Would you like us to make you something?
No. You mustn't come in. Go home, now. I want to sleep.
The blood is flowing right toward the door. In about thirty seconds, the girls will be standing in it. Outside, Prudence and Roxanne exchange a look... ... then turn and walk away. The Figure breathes a sigh of relief and takes his hand away from the knife. But then Roxanne stops. And looks back. The Figure secretly watches from the window. Roxanne walks back to the cottage. The blood is about to run under the door. The Figure grabs the door handle and readies the knife. Roxanne stands on the doorstep.
Are you sure you don't want us to bring you something?
No, my dear. Come back tomorrow. The blood is seconds away from hitting her feet. The Figure stands poised to throw open the door... but at the last instant, Roxanne turns and walks away. She doesn't see the blood pour outside under the door behind her.
I've come to hear your final confession. Isabelle nods shakily and sits up. He enters.
Has there been any word from my grandmother?
None that I have heard. Why? Isabelle doesn't answer. She turns away, troubled...
She's still in the dungeon. They're going to move her at sunset. Peter tosses the Boy a coin. The Boy runs off. Peter looks at the stone house, his eyes hard and determined...
We've hanged the werewolf. Why not let the girl go free?
I told you, Bailiff. Where there is one werewolf, there are more. And the girl is the bait for our trap. Father Solomon strides off. Attewater watches him go...
I need your help. Off Henri's look...
Where is your mother?
I don't know. I went to pick her up this morning and she was gone.
Attewater reacts, concerned. Cesaire takes another drink. Attewater angrily knocks it out of his hand.
Stop pouring that swill down your gullet listen to me! Cesaire emerges from his drunken fog and shoots him a dangerous look, but Attewater doesn't shy from it.
She was trying to find the werewolf. If she figured out who it is, I need to know now. Suddenly, the door bursts open and the Captain enters, flanked by Soldiers. They drag Cesaire to his feet.
Wait! What has he done?
It's just a precaution. Father Solomon doesn't want the girl's family interfering. Suddenly, Cesaire pulls a club out of his boot and hits the Captain across the back, knocking him to his knees. Cesaire hits him again, then he's wrestled to the ground. The Captain kicks Cesaire in the face and knocks him out. The Soldiers drag him away. Attewater watches them go...
What have you done to him?! Then: Isabelle's cell is opened. The Captain is holding iron manacles. Isabelle looks at them, horrified. The Soldiers clap her in irons. This is really happening...
Isabelle... He's coming to. Isabelle breaks away from the Soldiers, runs to his cell, and holds his hands through the bars.
I love you so much. Tell Mama and Grandmother that I love them.
I love you, my angel. You don't know how much. The Soldiers pull Isabelle away and lead her up the stairs. Cesaire shakes his cell door with impotent rage.
Bastards!
Not so pretty now, is she? The Villagers do not answer. Henri is here, silently fuming. Prudence stands next to him. She looks around.
Where's Peter?
I haven't seen him.
We, Bailiff Attewater, Father Auguste, and Father Solomon of Avignon, having in mind that you, Isabelle Ordeville of Villiers la Croise in the Diocese of Saint-
Flour, by your own confession, have committed acts of vulgar heresy, convict you of the sins of witches and condemn you to the mercy of werewolf. This is the sentence given. Solomon walks away and Attewater reluctantly follows. Through the holes in the mask, Isabelle sees Father Auguste make the sign of the cross and sadly turn away.
Help... Father Auguste stops. The Villagers shift uncomfortably as her helpless voice calls out from inside the mask.
Help me... Please... Help me... The Villagers start to leave, ashamed. Isabelle sees them going... and suddenly SCREAMS.
Isabelle? Can you hear me?
I can hear you.
Roxanne wanted you to know how sorry she is. She only said those things to save her brother.
I know. Will you tell her that I forgive her?
Of course.
You don't have to say anything.
I want to.
I think you'd better go now. Prudence looks up. The sun has almost set.
Yes. It won't be long now.
No one shoots until I give the order. Attewater glances outside and sees Soldiers armed with longbows hidden all around the square. The Captain draws an arrow from his quiver. It's tip is made of silver.
There. The Captain and Attewater follow his look. A BLACK SHAPE is stealing through the shadows toward Isabelle...
Hold your fire... Isabelle frantically tries to free herself, her wrists torn and bleeding, but it's no use. Then, suddenly -- -- something SLAMS into the stocks. BANG! She can't see what it is. The stocks are hit again. Isabelle screams. Suddenly, the Shape moves into her field of view:
Hey! Stop it! It's me! Isabelle's eyes go wide. The Black Shape crouches and looks in at Isabelle through the eyeholes. It's Henri.
Get away from me!
I'm not the Wolf! The moon is out! Look, I haven't turned! Isabelle realizes. He's right. It couldn't be him.
I'm trying to get you out of this.
Yes! Yes, please hurry! Solomon and his men watch as Henri uses a hammer and chisel to break open the stocks. BANG! BANG!
He's going to free her. Then: another HOWL. Almost on top of them.
Patience. It's close now... Henri brings the hammer down again and again and -- BANG! The lock is cleaved in two. Henri throws the stock open and helps Isabelle out of the mask. She looks like hell.
Can you stand? Isabelle nods. In the loft:
Kill him. Attewater gives Solomon a horrified look. The Captain strings an arrow and draws it back, taking aim... Suddenly, Attewater pushes him aside, spoiling the shot. The arrow whizzes by Henri's head. Attewater calls out:
Isabelle and Henri see him -- just as Solomon plunges a dagger into his back. Henri drags Isabelle to her feet and they run away, arrows ZIPPING all around them. Solomon scowls as he watches them escape.
We have to get to the stable. Peter left his cart for us.
Peter? Where is he --?
It doesn't matter. Come on!
The witch has escaped! The witch has escaped!
It's gone.
I don't think so... Just then, they pass by the Reeve and a group of Villagers. The Villagers start to give chase, but Isabelle and Henri quickly leave them behind. Meanwhile, the Wolf is shortcutting through the village, racing after the cart. It comes to a sheep pen and smashes through it. It comes to a large barn and leaps onto its roof, then leaps off again -- -- and lands within striking distance of the cart. Henri drives the horse, but it's no use. The Wolf lunges, wrestling the horse to the ground. The horse cries out, its body twisting as it falls, sending the cart flying. Isabelle falls out and lands hard. Henri lies on his side, clutching his wrist. Isabelle pulls herself together and goes to him. She looks at his arm. It's visibly broken. She helps him to his feet -- -- just as the overturned cart is SMASHED apart. The Wolf bursts through it, breaking it to pieces. It glares at them with bloodthirsty eyes. Isabelle and Henri back away from it, but their escape is blocked -- the Villagers have caught up. They freeze at the sight of the Wolf, but stand their ground. Isabelle and Henri are trapped. The Reeve shouts:
Take her! Take her and leave us in peace! The Wolf SNARLS at him and turns to Isabelle.
You can't outrun me, my dear. And there is no place you can hide that I cannot smell you out.
My place will never be with you.
Where do you belong then? Here? With the cowards who so gladly sacrificed you to save themselves?
They're still good people.
They are sheep. We are not like them. Let me show you what you are. The Wolf steps closer... but suddenly, Henri pushes Isabelle aside, pulls his hammer from his belt, and raises it to hit the Wolf.
Get away from her! The Reeve quickly grabs him. Henri struggles futilely, but Isabelle seizes the distraction. She snatches a Villager's torch and jabs it into the Wolf's side. The Wolf leaps back with an eerily human YELP of pain. Before it can react, Isabelle waves the torch at the Villagers, grabs Henri and they run away. The mob chases after them. Three Soldiers appear and join the mob. Figures silhouetted against the snow, angry faces lit by torchlight. It's like a nightmare. Suddenly, a cottage in front of the mob EXPLODES into pieces and the Wolf bursts out of it. It turns on the Villagers and Soldiers. It picks up a fallen roof beam in its powerful jaws, clenches them, trembling with rage, and snaps the wooden beam in half like a twig. The Villagers run away in fear, but the Soldiers stand their ground and the Wolf attacks. Meanwhile, Isabelle and Henri escape... but there are more Soldiers up ahead. Isabelle and Henri quickly hide.
I need to tell you something. In case I die.  Your grandmother is the Wolf. Isabelle recoils in disbelief. She shakes her head.
The Wolf is a man. It told me.
You believe it? Isabelle hesitates. He has a point. Henri peers out. The Soldiers are closing in on them...
They're coming.
Follow me. She takes his hand and leads him away.
We need to come inside. Quickly.
Have you lost your mind? If they find her here, they'll kill us, too!
Then shut up so they don't find her.
We have to get out of town.
You'll never make it. You can hide here until morning.
They're searching everywhere. We have to keep moving.
You might make it to the church. Even the king cannot violate the protection of sanctuary.
And the Wolf cannot cross onto holy ground. The three exchange a look. Sounds like a plan.
Can we go out your back window? Roxanne nods. They hurry toward the window, but then:
Wait! I have an idea.
Come on! The Reeve follows the voice and sees two figures that look like Henri and Isabelle climb out the back window.
They're here! Over here! The two figures run and the Villagers chase after them.
Can you keep going?
I can if you can. They run off, chased by the Villagers.
There! The Captain is pointing at her. He has another Soldier with him. Isabelle runs. They chase after her... ... just as the Wolf frees itself. From the rooftop, it sees the Soldiers chasing Isabelle. It races after them, running across roofs and jumping from cottage to cottage. Isabelle runs into an alley that dead-ends at a low wall. There's firewood piled against the wall and Isabelle quickly scrabbles up it, but at the last second -- -- the Captain reaches out and grabs her ankle. She grabs a log and hits him over the head until he lets go. Then she jumps down to the other side. The other Soldier starts to climb after her, but is suddenly lifted right off his feet. The Captain looks up. The Wolf is standing on the adjacent roof and has picked the Soldier up in its jaws. It glares down at the Captain. It flings the Soldier in its mouth away like a dirty sock. The Captain gapes up at it in fear for a moment too long and then the Wolf is on him.
At least you won't die alone now. Your friends will all hang with you. Suddenly... a long, hideous SNARL. Behind them. Father Solomon turns. Isabelle cranes her neck and sees... the Wolf emerge from the alley she just came out of. Solomon picks up his sword and stands to face it.
If you come for her, you come through me. The Wolf GROWLS and raises its hackles. Solomon raises his sword. Just then, Henri and Roxanne run into the square, followed by a group of Villagers.
Stay back! Henri hurries to Isabelle's side. The Villagers watch, breathless, as Solomon and the Wolf circle one another. Solomon's sword starts to tremble. Sweat breaks out on his brow. The Wolf SNARLS with an almost mocking leer. Then, with a loud battle cry, Solomon charges. The Wolf leaps at him. Solomon raises his sword... ... and the Wolf's jaws clamp onto his wrist. Solomon screams. The Villagers watch, horrified, as the Wolf twists back and forth, like a dog with a chew toy -- -- biting off Solomon's hand. The hand falls into the snow, still clutching the silver sword. Solomon cries out in agony. The Wolf turns toward Isabelle and SNARLS.
There is your mighty werewolf hunter. Who will save you now?
Isabelle trembles. The Wolf slowly steps toward her, menacing... and is struck in the head with a rock. The Wolf stops, surprised to find Henri standing in its way. Henri picks up another rock and throws it.
You bastard! You killed my father!
Henri, what are you doing?
I'm not letting it take you. He throws another rock and another. One hits the Wolf in the eye, tearing a gash in its face. The Wolf GROWLS.
Look! It bleeds! We can kill it if we stand together! The Villagers waver. Henri beseeches them:
Father Solomon was one man. His soldiers were mercenaries. But we are a village! The Wolf SNARLS at him, but comes no closer.
He's right. It's a coward at heart. Look at it. Why doesn't it attack? The Wolf SNARLS louder and takes a step toward her... but then the Merchant picks up a rock and throws it.
You killed my daughter! Then another Villager joins them. The Wolf looks around. Villagers are emerging from the shadows all around it. It's surrounded. And not by a dozen soldiers, but by a solid wall of angry, determined men and women. The Wolf raises its hackles, trying to scare them, but they start closing in, jabbing at it with weapons and farm implements. It snaps and SNARLS at its attackers, but there are too many of them. Someone drives a spear into the Wolf and it screams in agony. It lurches around, biting at the spear, but can't reach it. Then Henri sees something in the snow...
Solomon's sword. He pries it out of Solomon's severed hand and turns to face the Wolf, the angry Villagers gathered behind them. The Wolf trembles, blood dripping from its many wounds... then it turns to Isabelle.
I will come for you again. And with that, it turns and flees into the night. The Villagers CHEER. The Reeve chases after it and the rest of the angry mob follows him. Henri turns to Isabelle.
Are you all right? Isabelle nods, shaky. Then...
This isn't over. They turn. Solomon kneels, holding his bloody stump.
I am bitten. Henri and Isabelle exchange a look. A long beat. Henri walks over to Solomon, sword in hand. Solomon crosses himself and closes his eyes, unafraid. Roxanne turns away. Isabelle doesn't. Then Henri swings the sword. There is a soft THUMP as Solomon's head hits the snow. Henri throws the sword aside. Isabelle puts a reassuring hand on his shoulder.
It's past noon.
I know. I didn't want to wake you. Isabelle smiles up at her. The wounds on Suzette's face are still bad, but healing. She's scarred for life.
Where's Father?
He'll be home soon. They have no reason to hold him any longer.
Did they catch the Wolf?
No. They lost it in the forest. This gives Isabelle pause. A beat. Then:
What about Grandmother? Suzette hesitates. Isabelle is suddenly concerned.
Roxanne came by. She said your grandmother has fallen ill. I was hoping you could look in on her. Off Isabelle's troubled look...
Thank God you're all right. He tries to take her hand, but she pulls away. A beat.
I'm fine. You sent Henri to help me.
What did he tell you? Isabelle gives him a hurt look.
Those people back there. I know they mean well, but they're just people. I didn't expect anything from them. I expected something from you.
I just need to talk to you.
I'm going to see my Grandmother. She's sick. Please don't follow me. Isabelle starts walking again. Peter just stands there, watching her go. When she looks back, he's gone. She sighs, wiping tears from her eyes. She continues on... Then: FOOTSTEPS behind her again. She stops and looks back. Listens. Nothing. She keeps walking. But then she HEARS them again. Looks back. A dark figure follows her in the fog. She walks faster. She reaches the fork in the path. She pauses. The FOOTSTEPS are still behind her. She makes a decision. She breaks off a tree branch and backs toward the abandoned path, using the branch to sweep away her tracks in the snow. When she's far enough away from the main path, she throws the branch aside... ... and turns to face the abandoned path. It looks ominous. She gives it a wary look, then starts walking.
Grandmother? Are you awake? She listens at the door. A long beat. Then:
Pull the bobbin. The latch will open. We recognize the thin, raspy voice. Isabelle hesitates, then pulls the bobbin and opens the door...
You're certain nobody has seen him since last night?
The Wolf must have taken him. What else could have done that? They're looking at the cell where Cesaire was locked up. The metal door has been ripped off its hinges...
I've been expecting you. Isabelle starts toward the bedroom with the basket...
Mother sent some food. There are cakes and a pot of butter --
Don't come in here. Isabelle stops short. Grandmother's face is cloaked in darkness. Isabelle gives her a questioning look.
I'm not hungry right now.
Are you sure? You sound so weak.
I just made myself a stew. I left it over the fire for you. Isabelle glances back at the pot BUBBLING over the fire.
I came here to take care of you. Not the other way around.
Don't be silly, my dear. You've been through so much. Sit down. Isabelle considers for a beat, then places the basket on the table, next to a ball of yarn with Grandmother's knitting needles sticking out of it.
There's no burden so heavy that it doesn't seem a little lighter on a full stomach.
That's right. Eat up, my dear. Eat up. Isabelle takes a bite of the hot soup. The cat jumps up on the table and lies down next to her, licking its paw.
I've been worried about you. When you didn't come back yesterday, I was afraid...
Was I now?
Yes. He saved my life. Isabelle takes another bite of soup, then pauses. She puts the bowl down and loosens her collar...
I feel hot all of a sudden.
It's just the stew warming you. Isabelle hesitates, but keeps eating. Then she takes a closer look at the cat. There's blood on its paw. That's what it has been licking this whole time. Suddenly, Isabelle feels faint. She breaks out in a sweat. She looks at the soup. A thick broth with chunks of white meat...
What is this...?
If you don't like it, there's wine on the table to wash it down. Isabelle reaches for the bottle with an unsteady hand and pours herself a cup. She takes a sip... and freezes. It's not wine. It's blood. She gags and drops the cup, spilling blood everywhere. The cat jumps away. She looks at the bottle, turns it over. More blood pours out. Isabelle screams and throws it, knocking over the pot and spilling the soup. The Figure laughs.
Oh, what pretty red lips. Come and give your Granny a kiss, my dear.
I don't think I want to.
Then I will come to you. And with that -- Grandmother slowly starts to move. She groans. She's hurt. She stands up. She's much taller now than she was. As Isabelle watches in mute dread, the Figure pulls off Grandmother's nightgown and cap, hobbles into the firelight, revealing its face...
It's Cesaire. Isabelle quickly stands, startled.
What is this? Where's Grandmother?
I'm afraid I ate most of her.
I didn't want to kill her. But she finally realized what I was.
The hardest thing to hide has always been the smell. The werewolf musk is strong, especially close to the full moon.
Henri smelled it the night he saw me. And he recognized the smell later.
He thought it was your Grandmother. He didn't know he was smelling me. But she did. She'd lived with the smell her whole life, she just had no way of knowing what it was.
Once she realized what it was, of course, she knew the truth. She tried to sneak a message to Father Auguste last night.
Luckily, she'd taught me how to read.
You're not the Wolf. You can't be...
Look into my eyes. The one part of me I can never change. Isabelle looks into his eyes... and recoils in horror.
Oh, dear God... You killed Lucie? You killed my sister?
I did more than that to her. Isabelle steps away from him, mind reeling. He snarls.
I only wish your mother could have known what I did to her. The girl she passed off as my daughter.
I was made a cuckold by your mother. But I paid her back. She hears a LOW GROWL. She turns, startled. It's the Wolf. It lunges at her, raking her face with its claws.
I paid her lover back, too.
Lucie was the joy of my life. But she wasn't mine.
Yes, she was. In every way that matters, she was.
No. Not in every way that matters. My father sired me. I am a werewolf because it was in his blood. Because I was his.
Did Grandmother know?
No. And neither does your mother.
I put an herb in the beer to make you sleep whenever the moon was full. One of your Grandmother's old remedies.
That's how my father got away with it. Your grandmother never learned the truth. Until last night.
I began to turn when I was fourteen. My father and I ran together. We hunted freely. Killing at will. The two werewolves are chasing a FRIGHTENED PEASANT, moving in for the kill...
Our only mistake was that we gorged ourselves too often on the fat flesh of the villagers.
They killed my father. Suddenly, the larger werewolf falls into a pit filled with sharp stakes. It CRIES OUT in agony. The smaller werewolf looks down and WHIMPERS... ... watching as the larger werewolf begins to change before our eyes. It's reverting to its human form...
By the time the Villagers reach the pit, what they find is Grandfather's naked body skewered on the stakes. The smaller werewolf GROWLS at them and runs away.
The fools thought my father had been thrown in the pit by the Wolf. They never suspected that he was the Wolf.
I tried to live as my father did, but I came to realize that I did not belong here. The Wolf was my true self. It wasn't something to be hidden. It was a gift. I had to leave here and never return.
But I did not want to go alone. My father and I were part of a long and powerful bloodline. It was up to me to see that it did not die out. I had hoped for a son to pass my gift on to.
Instead, God gave me daughters. He's looking at Lucie and Isabelle. They help Suzette hang clothes to dry. He smiles as he watches them...
But female werewolves are not born. They are made. And I chose my eldest. Lucie catches him watching. She waves. He waves back.
When I finally decided to leave, I told Lucie the truth. And I gave her a choice. She could come with me. Or I would take you instead. Lucie turns and sees Isabelle approaching. We realize that we've seen this moment before.
This doesn't concern you, Isabelle.
Yes, Father. Isabelle walks away. Cesaire watches her go...
She agreed to come with me. She did it to protect you.
We arranged to meet on the night of the next full moon.
She was not a werewolf yet. I had to turn her. ... the Wolf emerge from the forest with a scrap of bloody meat dangling from its jaws.
First, she had to eat human flesh. I fed her from a kill I had made the month before. But the ritual was not yet complete. She had to be bitten by a male werewolf.
The bite should have changed her. It should have made her like me. But it didn't. That's when I knew. There was no werewolf blood in her. I was not her father. I was so angry. I killed her before I even realized I was doing it.
Afterwards, I thought about killing myself. The only thing that kept me alive was you.
You were so beautiful. So kind. And I knew you were mine. That's why you could understand me when no one else could. You were mine.
Do you see now? This is your heritage. This is what you are. Everything I have done has been to insure the future of our bloodline. We will run together
like my father and I once did. You are the next generation. You have had your first taste of human flesh. Now one bite from me is all that is needed to change you. It will only hurt for a moment. And then you will be as I am.
There must indeed be a God. For you are surely the Devil...
I will give you a choice. Come with me now. Or refuse me and let your friends suffer in your place. I will kill them one by one. Your mother. Roxanne. Peter. Isabelle shudders. She slowly pulls away and he releases her. She walks over to the table, her back to him. She eyes the ball of yarn with Grandmother's knitting needles in it. A long beat. Isabelle chokes back tears.
Father...? He approaches her. Stands behind her and places his hand on her shoulder. Her skin crawls.
Yes, my dear?
You gave me two choices. She turns to face him. Looks up at him.
But I have thought of a third. Suddenly -- CRUNCH! Isabelle drives something hard into Cesaire's jaw. He gasps, choking. He puts his had to his throat. Blood spills out through his fingers. CAMERA FINDS Grandmother's ball of yarn on the table. The knitting needles aren't sticking out of it anymore... They're sticking out of Cesaire's neck. He falls to his knees, gagging. Then he flops over dead. Eyes open. Isabelle gazes down at him. She looks like she might have just lost her mind. Then she sits on the floor, staring at his body... and screams. An eruption of rage, betrayal, and heartbreak. She screams.
Hello? No response. The door CREAKS open. It's Peter. As he opens the door, moonlight spills inside to reveal Isabelle huddled and trembling in the corner. She's screamed and cried herself out. All that's left is anger and a grim resolve. She did what she had to do.
People should know what he was.
We can't tell anyone. If they don't believe you, they'll hang you for this. And if they do believe you, they'll hang you for being the daughter of the Wolf.
Then I'll run away. I was ready to run away last night.
I was bitten at the festival. I spent last night in the woods because I was afraid of what might happen...
No, you're not. You could never be like him.
Isabelle's tears fall, the full implications of what he's saying starting to sink in. He takes her hand.
I can't stay here.
Yes, you can. We can still be together. My father lived here. My grandfather lived here.
Your father and your grandfather killed people. They couldn't help themselves. If I stay here, I won't be able to control myself.  I have to be alone. Isabelle rests her head on his and they just sit like that, leaning against one another in the candlelight...
We could take him to the river.
I don't want him ever found.
We'll weight him with rocks.
No. We'll put the rocks inside him.  Cut him open. I will sew the rocks inside him. Peter is taken aback. She's serious.
Moments later, Isabelle threads a needle and coldly stitches begins stitching. We don't see what she's doing, but there's blood on her needle and thread. There's a spot of blood on her cheek, too.
Wait. She pulls back the burlap, revealing Cesaire's dead body. His belly is lumpy and misshapen, an ugly red line in his torso stitched together with black thread. The knitting needles still jut out of his jaw. Isabelle yanks them out, then pulls the burlap back over Cesaire's body. Peter gives her a questioning look.
These belonged to my grandmother. The knitting needles are covered in blood. Peter takes out a rag and wipes the blood off for her. And as he does... something begins to shine through in the moonlight. Peter gives Isabelle a stunned look.
They're silver.
Death was too good for him.
I can live with it.
Where will you go?
I don't know. I need to understand what I've become. Maybe I can learn to control it.  I'll take my own life before I take another's.
I know.
I'm not coming back. I don't want you to wait for me. This is the last time you'll ever see me.
No, it isn't. You'll be in my dreams until the day I die. Peter turns and starts to walk away. But then he pauses.
You know, Henri is a good man.
Yes, he is. Then Peter continues on until he vanishes in the fog. CAMERA PUSHES IN on Isabelle as she watches him go...
I never saw him again.
Life in my village was changed forever. There were many questions and few answers. In the
end, the Wolf did not return. And that was answer enough for most.
Henri and I were married. He was a good man and a good father. I loved him very much. But I never loved him the same way that I loved Peter. That was the one secret in our marriage.
I only tell you now because he is dead. And if he knows now, I believe that he forgives me, for he must also know that I never loved him falsely.
This is my story, not that I expect you will believe it. In my own village, the events of that awful winter have already passed into legend. Parents tell their children to be good or else the Wolf will come and gobble them up. Isabelle smiles as she watches them sleep.
They've already forgotten. A simple children's story is all that remains.
But sometimes, when the moon is full, my thoughts still turn to Peter. He promised me that I would never see him again. And I never have. Somewhere, a wolf HOWLS. Isabelle smiles.
But I often wonder if I hear him.
