I mean really too. Starting Monday, though, I'm doing something a little more glamorous. Night cashier at a cafeteria.
 I don't mean how you make money.   I mean what are you interested in?
Honey - if I had the answer to that one, I bet I'd bore us both to death in half an hour.
Thank God that's over...
...And she was very disappointing.
Frank! Very nice Frank!
Thanks, Mrs. Givings.
I can't tell you how much we enjoyed it. You have a very talented wife.
I'll pass it along!
Frank!
Hi!
She's through there...!  You `bout ready for that drink?
Couple of minutes!
 April, sweetheart.   You were great. I mean it.
Hi. You about ready to leave? I've just got to get this makeup off, then we can go.
Well... I guess it wasn't a triumph or anything, was it?
I guess not. I'll be ready in a minute.
Take your time.
Will you do me a favor? Milly and Shep wanted us to go out with them afterwards. Will you say we can't? Say it's because of the baby sitter or something?
Well, the thing is, I already said that we could. I mean, I just saw them out there and I said we would.
 Oh. Then would you mind going out again and saying you were mistaken? That should be simple enough.
Don't you think that's a little bit rude, April?
Well I'll tell them myself.
Okay. Okay. Take it easy. I'll tell them.
I mean it, baby. You were the only person in that play.
Thank you.
We just never should've let you get mixed up in the damned thing.
All right.
You've studied for Christ's sake.
Could we sort of stop talking about it now?
Sure. I just don't want you feeling bad about it, that's all. Because it's not worth it. I mean, it's bad enough having to live out here among these damn people - what'd you say?
I said yes. All right, Frank. Could you just stop talking now, before you drive me crazy, please?
What are you doing? Why are we stopping?
No, Frank, please don't...
Baby, it's okay...
Please don't touch me.
April...
Why can't you...just... LEAVE ME ALONE!
It strikes me, that there's a considerable amount of bullshit going on here.... And there's one or two things I'd like to clear up. Number one, it's not my fault the play was lousy. Number two, it's sure as hell not my fault you didn't turn out to be an actress, and the sooner you get over that little piece of soap opera the better off we'll both be. Number three, I don't happen to fit the role of dumb, insensitive suburban husband; you've been trying to hang that one on me ever since we moved here. Number four -
What the hell are you doing?     Come back to the car.
No. Just let me stand here a second.
April?
Look, can't we sit in the car and talk about it, instead of running all over Route Twelve?
Haven't I made it clear I don't particularly want to talk about it?
Okay. Jesus, I'm trying to be nice about this thing.
How kind of you. How terribly, terribly kind of you.
Wait a minute. I don't deserve this.
You're always so wonderfully definite, aren't you, on the subject of what you do and don't deserve?
Wait a minute!
Wait a minute, God damn it!
You listen to me. This is one time you're not going to get away with twisting everything I say.
Christ, I wish you'd stayed home tonight!
You know what you are when you're like this? You're sick. I really mean that. You're sick!
And you know what you are?  You're disgusting.
Oh, yeah?
Just because you've got me safely in this little trap, you think you can bully me into feeling whatever you want!
You in a trap! You in a trap! Jesus, don't make me laugh!
Yes, me.  Me! Me! Me! Oh, you poor, pathetic little boy  Look at you! Look at you, and tell me how by any stretch of the imagination you can call yourself a man!
Don't look at me like that, April.
Could we please go home now?
I'm going to need your help this morning, Old Scout.
For the next few hours, you're to warn me of Bandy's every approach and you may have to screen me from public view in the likely event I that I throw up. It's that bad.
Good morning, Jack.
Nothing good about it, I assure you.
Of course, I knew the moment you came off the train what you were looking for... A small remodeled barn, or a carriage house  And I just hate to be the one to tell you that sort of thing just isn't available anymore... But I don't want you to despair. There is one place down here I want to show you... Now of course it isn't very desirable at this end.  As you see, Crawford Road is mostly these little cinder-blocky, pick-up trucky places  plumbers, carpenters, little local people of that sort.
But eventually... (she points, her arm fully extended) Eventually it leads up to Revolutionary Road, which is much nicer. Now, the place I want to show you, is a sweet little house and a sweet little setting. Simple, clean lines, good lawns, marvelous for children. It's right around this next curve... Now, you'll see it  there.
See the little white one? Sweet isn't it? The perky way it sits there on its little slope? Charming, isn't it?
Oh, yes.
You wanted to see me?
Came for you from Toledo this morning.
This is the third one this month.
Oh, right, sorry. I thought I'd taken care of that...
I'm not prepared to have this conversation again, Frank. You understand?
...Absolutely, yes.
These folks in the provinces look up to us, Frank.    We need to be efficient. We can't have this kind of back and forth, and so forth. It's just not efficient. Am I right?
...Absolutely, yes, yes...
What was that about?
Toledo. Branch manager wants a revised brochure for the conference on "The Knox 500."  "It's just not efficient."
 Sounds like a real goodie.
I don't even know what the Knox 500 does... Do you?
Don't insult me.
Now, if you'll look in the inactive file under SP-1109 you'll find copies of all the stuff we sent to the agency... and that way we can trace the thing back to its original sources.
I hope you weren't planning on an early lunch.
I'm not really hungry.
Good. I'll check on you later.
You know something? You're lucky you met me.
Oh?    How's that?
I can show you the ropes. There's an art to survival at Knox. Let me show you what I mean.
Bring me the telephone would you? And two more martinis.
Wow.
Hello Mrs. Jorgensen. Frank Wheeler here. Just wanted to let you know that I've had to send Maureen Grube down to Visual Aides for me. I'll probably need her the rest of the day... Okay? Fine. You too.
I never even heard of Visual Aides.
That's because it doesn't exist.
Yoo-hoo!
Hi Helen.
I can't stay a minute... My, don't you look comfy! I just wanted to bring this sedum for that messy patch in the front yard.
All it wants is just a tiny dollop of water for the first few days, and you'll find it absolutely thrives.
Well, thank you... You want some coffee?
Only if you're having some.
Is there something I can do for you, Helen?
Oh... yes, I almost forgot. I do have a small favor I'd like to ask...  It's about my son, John. He's been in the hospital.
I'm sorry to hear that.
Well, actually, just for the present, he's in Pleasant Brook... Psychiatric.
...I'm so sorry.
Oh... Nothing serious. He just got a little run down. Things can just get the better of us sometimes. Don't you think?
Yes.    Of course.
It really is a marvellous facility and the treatments seem to be doing him wonders... Anyway, they said getting out for an afternoon might do him some good.
I think he finds my friends a little conventional, frankly. I mean, he's travelled. He has a PhD in mathematics. I suppose you could say he's an intellectual. It would do him a world of good to meet a young couple like you.
We'd love to Helen.
So, I thought perhaps if you had some time...
We'd love to.
 Thank you, dear... Thank you.
I remember when you first came off the train. You weren't like most of my clients. You were different, somehow.
Well, you looked simply ravishing and I just knew Frank did something terribly brilliant in town. You just seemed... special... Of course you still are.
I guess you got me a little drunk.
You know what today is?
...Monday?
It's my birthday.      I'm thirty years old today.
Happy birthday!
What was the name of the department you made up again?
Visual Aides.
...What-a-joke.
Want to hear a real joke...?
My old man worked at Knox.
Yeah?
He was a salesman in Yonkers. Once a year he used to take me into the city for lunch. It was supposed to be a special, life-advice sort of occasion.
Nice.
Not really... I used to sit there and think, `I hope to Christ I don't end up like you.'
And here I am, a thirty year old Knox man. Can you beat that?
I think I kind of lost you...   Your father worked for Knox...? 
I'm sorry, but everything's kinda going out of focus.
How `bout some air?
You ever been to Paris?
I've never really been anywhere.
Maybe I'll take you with me.
I'm going back first chance I get. People are alive there.
All I know now is that I want to feel things. Really feel them. How's that for an ambition...?
Frank Wheeler?
Mm?
I think you're the most interesting person I've ever met.
I mean it.
Well, I guess this wasn't what you had in mind when you went to work this morning?
No.   It certainly wasn't.
Do you have a cigarette, Frank?
Sure, here.
Can I get you a drink or anything?
No thanks, Maureen. Actually, I guess I'd better be cutting out, it's getting kind of late.
Gee, that's right.   Have you missed your train?
It's all right, I'll get the next one.
Listen: you were swell. Take care now.
Frank...
Why are you all dressed up?
First of all, I missed you all day and I want to say I'm sorry. I'm sorry for the way I've been since that stupid play. I'm sorry for everything and... And I love you... Now wait here till I call you. Okay?
Alright Frank! You can come in now!
Frank. I have had the most wonderful idea. I've been thinking about it all day.
What's all this about?
You know how much money we have saved...?
Enough to live on for six months without you earning another dime. And with the money we could get from the house and the car, longer than that.
What we get for the house...What are you talking about? Where are we going to live?
...Paris.
You always said it was the only place you'd ever been that was worth living. So why don't we go there?
You're serious?
Yes.   What's stopping us?
What's stopping us? Well, I can think of a lot of things. For instance, what kind of a job could I possibly get?
You won't be getting any kind of job, because I will.
Oh, right.
Don't laugh -- listen a minute! Have you any idea what they pay for secretarial positions in the government agencies in Europe? Embassies and those things.
No, I don't.
I'm serious about this Frank. Do you think I'm kidding or something?
No, I know, I know. I just have a couple of questions, is all. For one thing, do you mind telling me what exactly I'm supposed to be doing while you're out earning all this money?
Don't you see that's the whole idea? You'll be doing what you should've been allowed to do seven years ago. You'll have time, Frank. You'll have time to find out what it is that you actually want to do, and when you figure it out you'll have the time and the freedom to start doing it.
Sweetheart, it's just not very realistic, is all.
Well, I happen to think this is unrealistic. I think it's unrealistic for a man with a fine mind to go on working like a dog year after year at a job he can't stand, coming home to a place he can't stand, to a wife who's equally unable to stand the same things.
You want to know the worst part? Our whole existence here is based on this great premise that we're somehow very special and superior to the whole thing, and you know what I've realized...? We're not! We're just like everyone else. Look at us!   We've bought into the same ridiculous delusion. This idea that you have to resign from life and settle down the moment you have children. And we've been punishing each other for it.
Listen: we decided to move out here. No one ever forced me to take the job at Knox. 
I mean who ever said I was supposed to be a big deal, anyway?
When I first met you, there was nothing in the world you couldn't do or be.
I was a little wise guy with a big mouth, that's all.
You were not! How can you even say that?
...All right... So, I'll have time. And God knows that's appealing. It's very appealing. And I mean, everything you say might make a certain amount of sense, if I had some definite talent maybe. If I were an artist or a writer.
But Frank, listen to me: It's what you are that's being stifled here. It's what you are that's being denied and denied and denied in this kind of life.
And what's that?
Don't you know...?
You're the most valuable and wonderful thing in the world... You're a man.
This is our chance, Frank.   This is our one chance.
Okay.
Okay?
Why not...? Why the hell not?
Ah, Franklin. Good to see your shining face.  What's the news?
I'm moving to Paris.
Right.   And I'm moving to Tangiers.
...Intra-company letter to Toledo... Attention B.F. Chalmers, branch manager... With regard to recent and repeated correspondence, this is to advise that the matter has been... very satisfactorily taken in hand, period, paragraph.
We wholly agree that the existing brochure is unsuitable. To this end we have developed...
"Speaking of Production Control..."
Here you are Mrs. Wheeler:
Here's the travellers checks you asked for... and your steamer reservations... and these I'll pass on to the embassy for you.
Thank you.
Good luck.
And when does this noble experiment commence?
September.     October at the outside.
I just happen to think people are better off doing some kind of work they actually like.
 Right, yes.
 Absolutely, absolutely.
But... I mean, assuming there is a true vocation waiting for you. Wouldn't you be just as likely to discover it here as there?
No... I don't think it's possible to discover anything on the fifteenth floor of the Knox building, and I don't think any of you do either.
This one's on me.
...All the way to... here.
But why?
Well, sweetheart. It's a big world out there and we thought maybe we should go see a little bit of it.
How far is it?
A long way. We have to take a boat ride over the sea to get there.
I won't know anyone there.
I know. And neither will I. But remember when you started school? And now look how many friends you have...
You'll never guess what they eat in Paris. You'll never guess...
What?
Snails.
Snails?!
And frog's legs!
Buddappa banh!     Banh!   Banh!
You better get changed, they'll be here soon.
That what you're wearing?
 Don't you like it?
...No... No. You look great, doll. Guess I better haul ass.
Hiya gang.
Shep?
Oh those look great.    I'm starving!
April, I can't get over it - you look like the cat who ate the canary! Do you have something to tell us? A little bit of news?
 Not to pry or anything.
 I'm not prying. Am I prying?    I didn't mean to.
Actually, we have got some pretty important news.
You want to tell `em?
We're going to Europe.    To Paris... To live.
What?
When?
Why?
September.
But what for?
What for? Because we've always wanted to. Because the kids are still young. Because it's beautiful. Shep, you tell her.
...It's a great city.
When did you make this decision?
Oh... about a week ago... its hard to remember. We just suddenly decided to go, that's all.
About a week ago, and you tell us now!
We had to get used to the idea.
So, what's the deal, Frank? You get a job over there, or what?
 No. Not exactly.
What do you mean, `not exactly?'
Frank won't be doing any kind of a job, because I will.
 And what are you going to do?
I'm going to study... and I'm going to read and... I suppose I'm going to finally figure out what I want to do with my life.
...While she supports you?
Yes. While she supports me...   At least in the beginning.
You wouldn't believe what they pay for secretarial work in government agencies over there. NATO and E.C.A. and those places.
The cost of living is dirt cheap compared to here, so we should be all right.
The truth is we just need something different. 
We're not getting any younger and we don't want life to just pass us by.
Gee, it sounds wonderful, kids. I mean it; it really sounds wonderful. We'll certainly miss you, though - won't we, sweetie? Golly.
Sure.
Paris.   Wow.
You know what I think?
I think this whole plan sounds a little immature.
Oh God, I'm so relieved. Me too... I was thinking that the whole time.
What kind of man is going to sit around in his bathrobe picking his nose while his wife works all day?
I don't know, Shep.   I just don't know.
What is it?
Nothing.   I'm just so relieved.
Come on. Don't cry. Please. It's all right. It's going to be all right.
I'll go.
Jesus, their faces! You'd think we'd told them that we were swimming up the Yangtzee river or something.
You know what this is like, April? Talking like this? The whole idea of taking off to Europe this way? It's like the way I felt going up to the line the first time, in the war. I was probably just as scared as everyone else, but inside I never felt better. I felt alive. I felt full of blood. 
And everything looked more real. The guys in their uniforms. The snow on the fields, the trees. And all of us just... walking. I mean I was scared of course. But I kept thinking: this is it. This is the truth.
I felt that way once too.
When?
The first time you made love to me.
...No
What's up?
Bart Pollock is here.
He's in Bandy's office.
 Yeah?
Looks like he wants to talk to you.
Hey.   Keep my name out of it.
 Frank. How are you? You know Bart Pollock?
Well, we've never met, but -
Glad to know you Frank.
Speaking of production control?
Frank... This is a crackerjack. They're just tickled to death in Toledo.
You wouldn't have believed this guy.
He's perfect Presidential material in the worst sense. A million dollar smile and about three pounds of muscle between his ears. (mimicking Pollock's booming voice) "Frank, this is a crackerjack."
Wish I saw his face when you told him you were leaving.
...Horse's ass.
I think this is them.
Sorry to be late.
You're not late.
The traffic was terrible.
Good to see you.
Wasn't it terrible, Howard?
Route 12.
You didn't have to do that.
The time they finish that stretch of road, they'll have to start all over again.
And you must be John?
Say hello, John.
Nice to meetcha.   Heard a lot aboutcha.
Where are your darling children?
They're at a birthday party.     Sorry they couldn't be here.
Don't worry. If I had a certified lunatic coming around the house, I'd probably get the kids out of the way too.
Oh, look at all this food! You didn't have to go to any trouble for us.
It's just some sandwiches.
John, would you like a sandwich?
Helen's been talking it up about you people for months. 
The nice young Wheelers on Revolutionary Road, the nice young Revolutionaries on Wheeler road.
Who'd like some sherry?
Please, don't bother Frank.
I'd like some sherry. And I'll drink Helen's if she doesn't beat me to it.
 But, hey... Listen, though. You got a high-ball glass...? Put a couple-three ice cubes in it, pour it up to the brim. That's the way I like it.
I think I can do that.
Oh, this is the most wonderful egg salad, April. You must tell me how you fix it.
You a lawyer Frank?
No, I'm not.
I could use a lawyer.
John, let's not get started again about the lawyer.
Pop, couldn't you just sit there and eat your wonderful egg salad, and quit horning in?
See, I've got a good many questions to ask and I'm willing to pay for the answers... Now, I don't need to be told that a man who goes after his mother with a coffee table is putting himself in a weak position legally; that's obvious.
John, come and have a look out this fabulous picture window.
If he hits her with it and kills her, that's a criminal case.
Oh, look, the sun's coming out!
If all he does is break the coffee table and give her a certain amount of aggravation and she decides to go to court over it, that's a civil case.
Maybe we'll see a rainbow!   John, come have a look.
Ma, how about doing everybody a favor? How about shutting up!
Steady down, now.
I can look into it.   Maybe recommend someone.
So, what do you do, Frank?
I work for Knox Business Machines.
You design the machines?
Nope.
Make `em, sell `em, repair `em?
All these questions.
I sort of help sell them, I guess. I work in the office. Actually, it's sort of a stupid job. I mean there's nothing  you know, interesting about it or anything.
Oh, Frank...
Whaddya do it for then?
Maybe Frank doesn't want to be questioned like this, son.
Okay, okay, okay  I know it's none of my business. And besides, I know the answer. You want to play house, you got to have a job. You want to play very nice house, very sweet house, then you got to have a job you don't like. Anyone comes along and asks "Whaddya do it for?' he's probably on a four-hour pass from the State funny farm. All agreed...? Ma?
Sorry, Frank.
Don't be. I agree with everything you said, John. We both do. That's why I'm quitting the job in the fall and we're taking off.
We're moving to Paris.
Did you know about this, Ma...? Wow. How do you feel about that, Ma? The nice young Wheelers are taking off!
...John, please.
Steady down, son.
How about some fresh air, John?
If that's all right with you?
I don't know if it's a good idea.
...If John wants to, I don't see the harm.
I hear you're a mathematician.
You hear wrong.     It's all gone now.
All gone?
You know what electrical shock treatments are?
Yes.   Yes I do.
I've had thirty-seven.
See?
Supposed to jolt out the `Emotional Problems.' Just jolted out the mathematics.
How awful.
 `How awful...' Why, because mathematics is so `interesting?'
No. Because the shocks must be awful and... well, because it's awful not to be able to do what it is you want to do. I think mathematics are dull.
I like your girl, Frank.
Me too.
So, what do a couple of people like you have to run away from?
We're not running.
And what's in Paris?
A different way of life.
So maybe we are running... We're running from the hopeless emptiness of the whole life here.
The hopeless emptiness? Now, you've said it. Plenty of people are on to the emptiness, but it takes real guts to see the hopelessness... Wow.
You know, he's the first person who seemed to know what we were talking about.
That's true. Maybe we are just as crazy as he is.
If being crazy means living life as if it matters then I don't care if we are completely insane.  Do you?
No.
I love you so much.
Tell you something, Frank. I'm a little sore at Bandy for the way he's kept you under a bushel all these years. This place okay, for you?
This is just fine, sir.   Fine.
One thing interests me, Frank, and one thing only: selling the electronic computer to the American businessman...
That's why I'm assembling a team. Men like you, not your average salesmen... It'll mean more money, and I got to be honest, maybe more of a time commitment. But you'll be part of something exciting, Wheeler... Computers.
Well, sir, it sounds exciting.
Bart!
Bart...
Do you happen to remember an Earl Wheeler?
Out of Yonkers?
Can't say that I do. Relation of yours?
My father. He worked at Knox almost twenty years.
 Earl Wheeler... Earl Wheeler...
No reason you would have heard of him.
Well, I'm sure he was a good man.
There's something I should have mentioned earlier... I'm leaving the firm. In the fall.
Another outfit?
No, it's not another outfit --
Now look, Frank. Is it a question of money? Because if it is, there's no reason we can't get together on a satisfactory
I appreciate that, but it's not money. It's more of a personal thing.
A personal thing? I see. (looks down, clearly disapproving) Frank... Let me tell you something my father told me... A man only gets a couple chances in life. If he doesn't grab `em by the balls, it won't be long before he finds himself sitting around wondering how he got to be second rate.
I guess so.
So, do me a favor... Sleep on it. Discuss it with your wife. Because let's face it: where the hell would any of us be without our wives, anyway?
And Frank, in all sincerity, if you do decide to join us, I believe it'll be a thing you'll never regret. 
And I believe something else, too. I believe it'd be a fine memorial to your Dad.
Knowing what you've got, comma, knowing what you need, comma, Knowing what you can do without, dash. That's inventory control.
Oh, hi Frank. Working late?
I got to dig myself out here.
I heard you were getting promoted.
Big shot. I guess your Dad would have been real proud, huh?
 Huh. Yeah, I guess so...
 So... 
maybe I should buy you a drink or something? You know...? Celebrate.
Yeah.   Maybe.
I'll just get my coat.
I'm going to take my doll carriage and my bear and my three Easter rabbits and my giraffe and all my dolls and my doll house.
I thought maybe we'd give the doll house to Madeline.
No! I don't want to give it to Madeline.
I already explained to you, the big things are going to be hard to pack.
But Madeline can have my bear and my Easter rabbits -
No! Just the big things. Look. Wouldn't you rather go outside and play with Michael.
I don't feel like it.
You've been inside all day.
I don't feel like it!
Well, I don't feel like explaining everything fifteen times to somebody who's too bored and silly to listen!
What's the matter?
Nothing.
I don't believe you. Did something happen today or what?
Nothing happened today that I haven't known about for days and days.
What?
Oh God, Frank, please don't look so dense. Do you mean you haven't guessed or anything?
What are you talking about?
I'm pregnant, that's all.
What...?   Jesus.
Oh, Frank, I meant to wait until dinner to tell you, but I just - well, I've been pretty sure all week and today I went to the Doctor and now I can't even pretend it's not true.
 Jesus... How long?
Ten weeks.
You didn't say anything.
I thought... Oh, I don't know what I thought.
I'm sorry, Frank. I'm so sorry.
I know you are.
We don't have to let this stop us. There are things we can do. Remember that girl at school I told you about...? As long as you do it before 12 weeks, it's fine.
We've got to be together in this, Frank. Otherwise nothing's going to make any sense.
Okay.   We'll figure it out.
12 weeks.    So we have time.
I love you Frank.
...I love you too.
So, Frank, how's work?   They gonna survive without you?
Actually... Something kinda funny happened the other day. I did some dumb little piece of work to get myself off the hook with Bandy, and suddenly I'm The Bright Young Man.
 That's always the way, isn't it?
It's incredible. I knocked this thing off in a couple of minutes and now they want me to join their team of `specialist' salesmen.
Morons.
It'd be funny, if they weren't talking about so much damn money.
 So, you tempted?
 Well, it's kind of ironic, don't you think?
She okay?
I thought you turned the job down?
 Not yet... It's just an option, that's all. With the money they're talking, things could be different for us here. We could get a better place. Travel.
Look, the point is - we could be happy here. At least for a while.
It is possible that Parisians aren't the only ones who know how to lead interesting lives, April.
So you've made up your mind?
No.   Like I said, it's an option.
...And supposing you're right. You make all this money and we have this interesting life here. Won't you still be wasting your life toiling away at a job you find ridiculous? Just like your father.
 Maybe we let that be my business.
 Your business?
 It's too hot for this.    I'm going to get wet.
You don't want to go, do you?
Come on, April.   Of course I do.
You don't! Because you've never tried at anything. And if you don't try at anything you can't fail.
What the hell do you    mean I don't try? I support you,     don't I? I pay for this house.     I work ten hours a day at a job    I can't stand.
You don't have to!
Bullshit! I'm not happy about it. But I have the backbone not to run away from my responsibilities!
It takes backbone to lead the life you want, Frank.
Where are you going?
Is it alright with you if I go to the bathroom?
What the hell are you going to do with this?
And what do you think you're going to do? You're going to stop me?
You're damn right!
Go ahead and try!
Listen. Listen to me. You do this - you do this and I swear to God I'll -
You'll what? You'll leave me?   Is that a threat, or a promise?
When did you buy this, April?   I want to know!
You know you really are being melodramatic about the whole thing. As long as it's done in the first twelve weeks, it's perfectly safe.
That's now April!   Don't I get a say?
Of course you do! It would be for you, Frank, don't you see? So you can have time. Like we talked about.
How can it be for me if the thought makes my stomach turn over?
Then it's for me... Tell me we can have the baby in Paris, Frank. But don't make me stay here. Please.
We can't have the baby in Paris.
Why not? I don't need everything we have here. I don't care where we live! I mean who made these rules, anyway? The only reason we moved out here was because I got pregnant. Then we had another child to prove the first one wasn't a mistake. I mean how long does it go on?
Frank. Do you actually want another child? Well, do you?
Come on, tell me. Tell me the truth, Frank. Remember that? We used to live by it. You know what's so good about the truth? Everyone knows what it is, however long they've lived without it. No one forgets the truth, Frank, they just get better at lying. So tell me: do you really want another child?
All I know is what I feel. And anyone else in their right mind would feel the same way.
 But I've had two children.    Doesn't that count in my favor?
Christ! The fact that you even put it that way! You make it sound like having children is a punishment.
I love my children.
And you're sure about that?
What the hell is that supposed to mean?
April, you just said our daughter was mistake. How do I know you didn't try to get rid of her, or Michael for that matter? How do I know you didn't try to flush our entire fucking family down the toilet?
No that's not true. Of course I didn't.
But how do I know April?
Stop.   Please just stop, Frank.
April, a normal woman, a normal sane mother doesn't buy herself a piece of rubber tubing to give herself an abortion so she can, go live out some God damn fantasy.
 All I'm saying is you don't seem entirely rational about this thing... And maybe we should get someone to help you think about it.
...And the new job's going to pay for that too?
April if you need a shrink, it'll be paid for. Obviously.
...Okay. I guess there isn't much more to say, then, is there?
So I guess Paris was a pretty childish idea, huh?
I guess maybe it was.
We can be happy here April...   I can make you happy here.
We've had a great few months.   It doesn't have to end...
We're going to be okay.
I hope so Frank.   I really hope so.
Thank you for waiting.   Mr. Pollock can see you now.
Foiled by faulty contraception.
I can't say I'm sorry.
Wouldn't have been the same without you.
You'd have been sorely missed in the old cubicle, I can tell you that.
Besides which...
What?
...Well, the plan always seemed a touch unrealistic, don't you think?
I suppose, it's none of my business, really.
No.   I suppose it isn't.
Well, we won't be the only ones glad to hear the news. They'll be celebrating in the secretarial pool.
Hey! Remember the first time you brought us here? You said, it takes a special kind of taste to enjoy Vito's Log Cabin!
It's so awful it's kinda nice!
That's right!
 Look at me...! I'm just so happy. Our little gang's back together again!
At least Europe's not going anywhere.
Wanna dance?
I don't really feel like it.
I'll dance!
 Guess April's pretty blue `bout Paris, huh?
Think she'll be okay?
Oh, sure. Give us girls a couple of days and we can get over anything!
...Frank.
Frank... I...
 You okay?
Gee...I'm afraid I'm not very...
Of all the inconsiderate...
Look - why don't you take Milly home, then go home yourself and that would take care of both sitters. Then Shep can take me home later.
All right with me.
 You'll be alright?
Sure.
I'm sorry you're not going away anymore. I know it was important to you.
Don't take this wrong; I've been there and...they don't have so much we don't have here.
It didn't have to be Paris.
You just wanted out, huh?
I wanted in. I just wanted us to live again.
For years I thought we shared a secret...that we would be wonderful in the world. I didn't exactly know how, but just the possibility...kept me hoping.
How pathetic is that? To put all your hopes in a promise that was never made? See, Frank knows...he knows what he wants. He's found his place. He's just fine. Married, two kids. It should be enough. It is for him. He's right; we were never special or destined or anything at all.
Sure you are. You're The Wheelers. You're a terrific couple, everyone says so.
I saw a different life. I can't stop seeing it.  Can't leave, can't stay.  No damn use to anyone.
Come on, let's do it.
Let me take you somewhere.
No. Please. Here.    Now.    In the back seat.
April... This is what I've always wanted... I love you.
Don't say that.
I mean it, I love you.
Please, just be quiet for a minute, then you can take me home.
It's beautiful out.
Yes; it's lovely.
You know what today is?
It's twelve weeks.
That's right.
Look, this has been kind of a crazy summer. We've both been under a strain. I mean I know you're upset.
You know I'm not sleeping with you and you want to know why?
Well, I'm sorry Frank, but I don't really feel like talking about it.
Okay. What do you feel like talking about?
Would it be all right if we didn't talk about anything? Can't we just take each day as it comes, and do the best we can, and not feel we have to talk about everything all the time?
I don't think I suggested we talk about everything all the time. My point was, we've both been under a strain and we ought to be trying to help each other as much as we can right now.
I mean God knows my own behavior has been pretty weird lately... I mean, as it happens... there is actually something I'd like to tell you about...
I've been with a girl in the city a few times.
A girl I hardly even know. It was nothing to me, but she got a little carried away. She's just a kid... Anyway, it's over now. It's really over. If I weren't sure of that I guess I could never have told you about it.
Why did you?
 Baby, I don't know. I think it was a simple case of wanting to be a man again after all that abortion business. Some kind of neurotic, irrational need to prove something.
No. I don't mean why did you have the girl; I mean why did you tell me about it?
I mean what's the point? Is it supposed to make me jealous, or something? Is it supposed to make me fall in love with you, or back into bed with you, or what? I mean what am I supposed to say?
Why don't you say what you feel?
I don't feel anything.
In other words you don't care what I do or who I fuck or anything?
No; I guess that's right; I don't.
Fuck who you like.
Don't you see...Don't you see, I want you to care.
Oh, I know you do. And I suppose I would if I loved you. But you see I don't think I do anymore. And I only just figured that out. And that's why I'd just as soon not do any talking right now.
Oh, now don't give me this shit! You know God damn well you love me!
You think so?!
You know GOD DAMN WELL!
Yoo-hoo!   Any one home?
I'm sorry dinner's late. Can I get anyone a refill?
Oh, don't worry. It's nice just to sit for a bit and socialize...You really didn't need to go through all the trouble of cooking. I can see you have a lot to do with packing and what not.
Actually, there's been a change of plans.
Oh?
I thought maybe it was obvious... April's pregnant.
Oh, April! I can't tell you how pleased I am. Oh, but I expect you'll be needing a bigger house, now, won't you?
Hold it a second, Ma.
I don't get this.
What's so obvious about it? I mean okay, she's pregnant; so what? Don't people have babies in Europe?
Oh John, really. I don't think we need to --
I'm asking the man a question. If he doesn't want to give me the answer, I'm assuming he'll have sense enough to tell me so.
Suppose we just say that people anywhere aren't very well advised to have babies unless they can afford them.
 Okay. Okay; it's a question of money. Money's always a good reason...
But it's hardly ever the real reason. What's the real reason? Wife talk you out of it, or what?
Little woman decide she isn't quite ready to quit playing house?
Nah, nah, that's not it. I can tell. She looks too tough. Tough and female and adequate as hell.
Okay, then; it must've been you.
What happened?
John, please, you're being very --
What happened, Frank? You get cold feet, or what? You decide you're better off here after all? You figure it's more comfy here in the old Hopeless Emptiness after all, or --
Wow, that did it! Look at his face! What's the matter, Wheeler? Am I getting warm?
All right, son. I think we'd better be --
Boy!
Boy! You know something? I wouldn't be surprised if you knocked her up on purpose just so you could spend the rest of your life hiding behind that maternity dress. That way you never have to find out what he's made of.
Now look, I think that's just about enough out of you. I mean, who the hell do you think you are? You come in here and say whatever crazy God damn thing comes into your head and I think it's about time someone told you to keep your God damn -
He's not well, Frank.
Not well, my ass! I don't give a damn if he's sick or well or dead or alive, he should keep his fucking opinions in the fucking insane asylum where they belong!
Let's go, son.
Big man you got there, April.
Big family man, solid citizen. I feel sorry for you. Still, maybe you deserve each other.
Matter of fact, the way you look right now, I'm beginning to feel sorry for him, too. I mean, you must give him a pretty bad time, if making babies is the only way he can prove he's got a pair of balls.
You... fucking..!
He's not well, Frank!
All right, John. Let's get on out to the car now.
I'm sorry April, I'm so sorry...
Right... Sorry, sorry, sorry! Okay Ma? Have I said `Sorry' enough times? I am sorry, too. Damn; I bet I'm just about the sorriest bastard I know. Course, get right down to it, I don't have a whole hell of a lot to be glad about, do I?
Hey, but I'm glad about one thing, though.
You know what I'm glad about? I'm glad I'm not gonna be that kid.
Okay, okay, don't tell me. Don't tell me; let me guess. I made a Disgusting Spectacle of Myself. Right?
Right.
And everything that man said is True. Right? Isn't that what you're going to say?
Apparently I don't have to.     You're saying it for me.
But you're wrong.
Why am I wrong?
Because the man is insane. He's fucking insane! Do you know what the definition of insanity is?
What is it, Frank?
The inability to relate to another human being. It's the inability to love.
The in -- the in; the inabil; the inability to --
Oh. -- Oh, Frank, you really are a wonderful talker! If black could be made into white by talking, you'd be the man for the job. So now I'm crazy because I don't love you -- right? Is that the point?
No. Wrong. You're not crazy and you do love me; that's the point.
But I don't. In fact I loathe the sight of you. You're just a boy who made me laugh at a party once and if you come any closer, if you touch me or anything I think I'll scream.
Oh baby listen --
Fuck you, April. And fuck all your hateful, snotty little -
What're you going to do now? Are you going to hit me? To show how much you love me?
Oh, no, don't worry, I can't be bothered! You're not worth the trouble it'd take to hit you. You're not worth the powder it'd take to blow you up. You're an empty --
You're an empty, hollow fucking shell of a woman. What the hell are you living in my house for if you hate me so much? Huh? Will you answer me that? Why the hell do you fuck me? What the hell are you carrying my child for?
Why the hell didn't you just get rid of it, when you had the chance? Because listen. Listen: I got news for you. I wish to God you had.
Don't come any closer.
April, listen, I --
Don't come any closer. Can't I even get away from you in the fucking woods?
April, listen, I didn't mean that. Honestly; I didn't mean what I said.
Are you still talking? Isn't there any way to stop your talking? I NEED to think. Can't you see that?
Please come back.     What're you doing out here?
Do you want me to scream again, Frank? Because I will, if you say another word! I mean it!
Good morning.
Good morning.
Would you like scrambled eggs or fried?
Oh. It doesn't really matter - Uh... scrambled, I guess, if it's easy.
Fine.   I'll have scrambled too.
It's kinda nice having breakfast without the kids for a change.
Yes. I thought you'd probably want a good breakfast today. I mean it's kind of an important day for you, isn't it? Isn't this the day you have your conference with Pollock?
 Yes. That's right, yes.
Big deal.
I imagine it is a pretty big deal; for them, anyway. What exactly do you think you'll be doing? You never have told me much about it.
Haven't I? Well... I think this whole thing is about Knox getting ready to buy up one of these really big computers, bigger than the `500'. Did I tell you about that?
No, I don't believe you did.
Well, you know -- Basically it's just a...a big, fast adding machine. Only...
Instead of mechanical parts, you see, it's got thousands of little individual vacuum tubes.
Oh, I see. At least I think I see; yes. It's really sort of -- interesting, isn't it?
Well, I don't know, it's -- yeah, I guess it is sort of interesting, in a way.
You should value what you do Frank. You're obviously good at it.
Guess I'd better be getting started.
Listen, though, April; this was really nice... I mean it was a swell breakfast. Really; I don't know when I've ever had a -- a nicer breakfast.
Thank you... I'm glad; I enjoyed it too.
Then you don't -- You don't hate me, or anything?
No; of course I don't.
Have a good day.
Okay, then... So long.
Hello... Milly? Everything all right? My voice sounds what...?
Well, no, I'm afraid I'm not feeling any better... If it's not an inconvenience for you... This evening would be great. What...? Oh, well- no, not if they're outdoors playing. Don't call them in.
Just give them - you know, give them each a kiss for me, and give them my love, and tell them - you know... All right, Milly. Thanks.
I think I need an ambulance.... Yes... One one five Revolutionary Road.
Frank? They tell you what happened?
Jesus, Shep. I couldn't even understand half the things he told me. He said the fetus was out before they got her here. He said they had to operate to take out the whatdycallit, the placenta and now she's still bleeding. He said she'd lost a lot of blood before the ambulance came, and now they're trying to stop it, and he said a whole lot of things I didn't get, about capillaries, and he said she's unconscious. Jesus.
How about sitting down, Frank.
What the hell do I want to sit down for!
Okay.   Take it easy.
My God.
Here, have a cigarette.
She did it to herself, Shep.
She did it to herself.
I'll get some coffee.
No.   No.   No.
Try to sit down, Mr. Wheeler.
Sit down Frank.
...It was the worst experience of my life. Such wonderful people. Weren't they Shep? Poor April.
Frank lives in the city now.       Where is it he works?
Bart Pollock Associates.
Computers.     Interesting firm.
Have you seen him since?
No. Too many memories, I think. Shep's seen him. In the city.
He's just dedicated to those kids. Every spare moment he has, he spends with them...
You okay?
Mm-hmm.
I don't want to talk about The Wheelers any more.
Okay. We don't have to.     We don't have to.
I can't tell you how pleased I am about the little Revolutionary Road place, Howard. Remember how dreary it looked all winter? All cold and dark and -- well, spooky. Creepy- crawly. And now whenever I drive past, it gives me such a lift to see it all perked up and spanking clean again, with lights in the windows. And do you know, I was just thinking, I've loved that little house for years, and the Braces are the first really suitable people I've ever found for it. Really nice, congenial people, I mean.
Well, except for the Wheelers, you mean.
Oh, I was very fond of the Wheelers but they always were a bit -- a bit whimsical, for my taste. A bit neurotic. I may not have stressed it, but they were often very trying people to deal with, in many ways. 
Actually, the main reason the little house has been so hard to sell is that they let it depreciate so dreadfully. Warped window frames, wet cellar, crayon marks on the walls, filthy smudges around all the--
