Around them, under the TREE CANOPY, a COMMUNITY OF CHIMPANZEES naps, eats, plays.
Nanotherapy, beta version: Tuesday, March 10, 2011. Female Test subject Number four. Franklin reaches for us, smiles...
Here we go, Bright eyes. A MIST fogs our view for a moment.
Not too much. She needs to be calm, but alert.
Start the scan. A TECHIE sits at a computer screen beside Will.
Scanning.
Stuff looks like Kool-aid.
Go ahead, I'm sure you could use it.
She's convulsing. Caroline sticks a stethoscope in the tube, listens to Bright Eyes' heart.
She's not a monkey. Will looks from the monitor to Caroline. His look is intense, tough to read. She blushes slightly at the heat of his gaze.
She's an ape. Chimpanzees, gorillas and orangutans, they're all apes.
Good to know. Just keep it from moving. She's stung, wonders, why does he have to be such a jerk sometimes. He's oblivious to this, instead intent on getting the scan right. The green liquid moves through the chimp's neck...
Here we go. Will stares at the scan, his eyes willing the test to succeed.. .the green liquid LIGHTS UP THE CHIMP'S BRAIN.
We're on our way.
What is this? Caroline holds up a picture of a tree for Bright Eyes, who sits at a table in front of a LEXIGRAM, a lit-up board with colorful symbols. Bright Eyes presses a button.
Tree.
And this? The chimp presses another button.
Acorn.
Where does the acorn come from? Bright Eyes considers... then presses a button.
Acorn.
Yes, but where does the acorn come from?
Acorn.
Bright Eyes interrupts, now pressing three buttons.
Acorn. Tree. Acorn. The chimp looks at Caroline, who's stunned, trying to process the ADVANCED THINKING JUST MANIFESTED. Then she presses another button.
Surprise. The unnatural voice - paired with Bright Eyes' eerily human- like gaze - is somehow CREEPY... The IMAGE FREEZES and we...
We started the therapy four weeks ago. This was yesterday. Will's studying the scans. They look good. Real good.
There's been clear cell growth. Both on the frontal lobe and the neocortex. She's purposely standing close in order to point this out. He notices but doesn't respond - there's history between them and he's regretting that - gets in the way.
I see that. But I don't understand the primate behavioral norms. She knows an acorn's a seed. Wouldn't any monkey know that?
No - it's conceptual. Acorn gives us a tree, which gives us an acorn.
Abstract thought...
In a chimpanzee. Unheard of. Will turns the possibilities over in his mind. Caroline moves away from him. He barely notices her now.
You're calling her a monkey just to piss me off, aren't you?
Start the other's on the 112.
Hey Dad. Walter looks up, whispers...
John... is that you?
It's me. Will.
As thou dost, Anthony.  .he hears no music. No music...
 He's been doing that all day. A Home Aide enters, grabs her coat. This is IRENA.
He found an old book of his. She pulls a worn paperback of Julius Caesar from Walter's pocket. He snatches it from her, puts it back.
 I had no idea you liked Shakespeare so much, Mr. Walter.
My mother was the one. She liked Shakespeare...
Come on, Dad.
Remember I told you we were using Basic Fibroblast Growth Factors on the apes? Well the therapy seems to be working. We've seen definite signs of adult brain neurogenesis. Walter holds up his arms for Will to slide on the pajama top.
Board of Directors is coming in a couple weeks to talk about Phase 2 - that's clinical trials. Walter gives no hint he's even listening, much less understanding what Will's saying.
Human trials, Dad. Soon.
I rather tell that what is to be feared than what I fear: for always... I am Caesar... There's no way to reach him tonight. Still Will tries..
I'm going to make you better - I swear it. His father looks at him. A moment of recognition?
John... ?
John's gone. He moves to the door, pausing to take in the diplomas on the walls - Walter's name on all of them.
Good morning, Felix. Bam Bam. Monty. Hey - what's the matter, don't like my cooking?
You okay back there?
Something wrong with Bright Eyes?
I'll check on her when we're done. Franklin unlocks a cage and leads a CHIMP - LUCKY - into the next room, where Caroline waits beside the CT scanner. Lucky's head is shaved, exposing a long, curving scar on his cranium. From Bright Eyes' vantage point she can see through the open door as Lucky's strapped down.
You could at least try to look excited.
I'm not good with this stuff. Jacobs puts a hand on Will's back, leads him inside.
You'll do fine. Just speak English. Keep the science simple.
Okay. Back it out...
Your turn. Bright Eyes RUSHES FORWARD, HER HANDS GRIPPING THE BARS SO
C'mon - Let go - She understands what he wants but she won't do it. THAT'S
Hey! Something's wrong with number four! Franklin looks over - he's still dealing with Lucky on the table...
Be right over - Donnie looks closely at Bright Eyes. There's something different in her face today. Rage? Force of will?
What's the matter with you?
Hey!!! Now Donnie's smashed up against the bars. Hard. The other apes begin to SCREECH. Donnie hasn't panicked quite yet, but he's about to.
Someone get her off of me!
Hang on - Franklin struggles to hold onto Lucky as Caroline hurries over. He eyes the chimps in their cages - GOING CRAZY.
In the past, it's been impossible to target specific areas, both because of the Blood Brain Barrier - Jacobs stands, interrupting Will.
What Dr. Rodman has done is to invent a virus that can, for the first time, cross the membrane that protects the brain and deliver a genetic, therapeutic, payload.
 This 'payload' would directly affect the areas of memory, higher function - and, of course, the motherlode: intelligence. The board members stare, trying to comprehend.
Meaning?
Meaning.  If Phase 2 goes as planned, we're looking at a cure for Alzheimer's. With an elbow prompting from Jacobs, Will takes a SAMPLE VIAL from his jacket pocket and awkwardly holds it up for dramatic effect.
She's breaking my hand!
Let go, Bright Eyes! You're hurting him! She tries to help pull Donnie away.
Let go! In the next room Franklin's having troubles of his own.
Lucky no! Stop!
Uh oh. Guard #2 turns to another screen - where DONNIE IS VISIBLE IN
Hey, Len...? Bright eyes is pulling Donnie's arm right from its socket... Donnie falls to the floor at Caroline's feet...
What about the safety of the virus?
Perfectly safe. We're using the most stable - A COMMOTION outside. Someone SCREAMS. Then a BLACK BLUR as LUCKY CRASHES THROUGH THE GLASS WINDOW.
Lucky turns on Will with a growl, lurching toward him and pinning him to the wall. It happens fast. The chimpanzee opens his powerful jaw, exposing DEADLY
BAM! BAM! BAM! Security Guard #1 SHOOTS LUCKY IN THE BACK. The chimp turns, leaps for the Guard - who FIRES again.
Are they gone?
Long gone. Will knows the answer, but has to ask anyway.
Did they say anything before they left? I mean, about Phase 2.
Look around you, for Christ sakes. We'll be lucky if we don't go to jail. Will's gutted - devastated.
But we're so close.
You think you're the only one who's got something at stake here? I've got my own skin in this game!
What happened had nothing to do with the 112.  Take an already aggressive animal, make it smarter - you're going to get a potentially dangerous
What makes you so damned positive about that?  What if this drug does things you don't understand? Are you going to take responsibility for that? Because I'm sure as hell not going to. Here Will hesitates.
We're not ready for human trials. Hell, we weren't ready for monkey trials.
They're apes.
This is what we're going to do: You're taking a sabbatical. I'll let the board handle the lawsuit. When this blows over I'll bring you back and we'll start over - we'll do it right this time. With mice. Tiny mice that can't hurt anybody. Will finds to his dismay that he's got nothing to say.
Show you something, boss?
I don't work here anymore, Franklin.
I just put down fifteen animals, Dr. Rodman. The least you could do is give me a moment of your time. Will's shoulders sag with exhaustion. It's been a long, devastating day.
of course.
It's a creepy, horrible scene.
They're all gone.
I'm sorry, Franklin. Genuinely sorry... What's he got to do to get the hell out of there? Franklin ignores him, steps inside Bright Eyes' cage. He moves to the very back and pulls aside a blanket. At first Will doesn't understand what he's looking at. The lighting's dim and the thing's so small... But then IT MOVES AND WILL REALIZES HE'S LOOKING AT AN INFANT
Will stares at it for a long moment, his brain overloaded.
It's impossible. How could a full- term gestation go unnoticed?
They carry small. Must have been pregnant when they brought her in. Will tries to get his mind around the situation.
Who else knows about this?
No one.
You want me to take him?
He's an orphan now.
I could be thrown in jail. He's a chimpanzee who's been exposed to a possibly dangerous drug.
You don't believe that.
Doesn't matter what I believe.
Just for a couple days. Until I can find a sanctuary.
That's not possible.
I heard you outside, fighting to keep them alive.
I was talking about the work, my
she was just trying to protect him.
What?
Bright Eyes - the mother. That's why she wouldn't let anyone into her cage. Will looks down at the helpless baby.
I'm sorry, Franklin - I'm sorry - but there's nothing I can do here. He's got to be put down like the others.
Tell you what, Doc.  I'm done for the day. So you be my guest. Franklin hands the LONG NEEDLE to Will. It's quiet. Will can hear the baby's WHEEZY breath. He enters the cage kneels beside it, regards his tiny body, his little hands. Will readies the needle, brings it close to the chimp's belly... but there's no way he can go through with this. Angrily Will tosses the needle aside. Turns to Franklin, who watches from outside the cage.
Two days. Then you have to figure it out.
Will moves down the aisle in a daze, the baby chimp - covered in a blanket - plastered to his chest. He stops at the powdered formulas, overwhelmed by the array of choices.
Hey man. Congratulations.
Huh?
It's Friday night. I had a date.
I'm sorry - there was - She doesn't wait to hear his excuse, just moves down the walk, her footfalls pointed and angry. He pauses there. Apparently no end to this bad day.
It's okay. It's going to be okay. Awkwardly, he even rocks back and forth a little bit. Will looks down at the chimp, struggling for breath. The room fills with STEAM.
A LARGE MALE CHIMPANZEE IN THE WILD. He stands at the top of a tree, an alpha male, eyeing the CHIMPS around him. In a sudden BURST of movement, the CHIMPANZEE TAKES OFF, FLYING FROM BRANCH TO BRANCH with tremendous force, a FREIGHT
There's a HONK below, and the chimp watches as a TAXI pulls up to the HOUSE NEXT DOOR. HUNSIKER - A MAN in an AIRLINE PILOT uniform - kisses his WIFE and young DAUGHTER, ALICE, then climbs into the cab with his carry-on suitcase. Alice clutches a doll in her hand as she watches her daddy's Taxi disappear around the corner... Then TODD, the big brother, SWIPES THE DOLL FROM HER HAND and rides off on his bike. His FRIENDS LAUGH. The chimp watches, riveted, as the Alice BURSTS INTO OUTRAGED TEARS and runs after them.
Caesar! Breakfast! The chimp turns at Will's call. HIS NAME IS CAESAR.
Please pass the ketchup. Caesar slides the ketchup to Will.
Thanks.
(using American Sign
You're welcome. NOTE: Whenever Caesar communicates he's signing and there will be subtitles.
Is he going to turn left or right...? The mouse turns left at the cone - and finds his way to a piece of cheese. Will does his best to hide the excitement blooming on his face.
There it is. Restored cognitive function.
Same success rate as the primates. Congratulations.
He's right on target. Height. Weight... She checks Caesar's ears.
Dairy Queen.
After. Sit still.
What about diet?
A healthy diet. Fruits, vegetables.
Ice cream. Will ignores him.
What's he saying?
He's hungry. Caesar's angling to climb off the examining table. Will sends him a look - out it out.
He seems extremely intelligent. How many words does Caesar sign? Beat.
You know, the basics.
Soft-serve.
I've heard of apes learning up to a hundred and fifty words. Is he good with puzzles? Will hesitates.
He's pretty good.
Well, Caesar's healthy, obviously happy. You're doing a great job with him.  But there is an anomaly I noticed.
Like what?
When I was examining his eyes, I noticed a strange green pigmentation.
Green? His heart starts to pound.
Green. Never.seen it before. She hands Will an OTOSCOPE.
Take a look. Will peers through the magnification - and sure enough, finds
It's faint, can you pick it up? He sits down in the nearest chair - stunned. She eyes him.
You alright? Want a glass of water?
No thanks.
Forgot to eat today. Not a big deal.
Carotid pulse is running a little fast.
For a human or a chimpanzee? First time he's seen her smile. It lights up her face.
Gotta remember to eat.
You have to move the whole tower to another peg, one block at a time.
Here's the hard part: you can't put a larger block on top of a smaller one. Caesar studies the puzzle.
Understand?
What's the best score?
Fifteen. Will looks over at Walter, who's staring at the wall.
 It was passed down from his mother.
 At age two Caesar appears to exceed his mother's aptitude. He signs over three hundred words. He exhibits no visible side effects from the therapy...
 Dad. I've got something that's going to make you better. Will closes the door behind him. WE HEAR A RHYTHMIC SQUEAKING NOISE as we...
Caesar pumps his legs, eager to get a better look...
 You want turkey or ham?
Ham!
Caesar wriggles the harness around so that he can reach the clamp on his back with his long chimpanzee arms.
Check it. He wants to play. Thrilled at the contact, Caesar throws the ball to Todd. But Todd has an idea, and the idea makes him smile. Alice doesn't have a good feeling. She watches as her brother throws the ball to his Buddy OVER CAESAR'S HEAD.
Monkey in the middle. Todd's Buddy LAUGHS. Caesar LAUGHS too, although he's not sure what's funny.
Caesar!
He won't go far.
You don't know that.
I do, Dad.
Hah! Hah - Will JUMPS INTO THE YARD AND PUTS HIMSELF BETWEEN HUNSIKER AND CAESAR. Caesar cowers behind him.
Hold on - it's okay - he's harmless!
Your monkey came onto my property! Threatened my kids! By now Caesar has climbed into Will's arms, burying his head in. his neck. Will backs toward the gate.
It won't happen again...
Damn right it won't happen again! I'll press charges if it does! Will holds Caesar close and hurries home.
What does he do for fun? Will's brought Caesar in for a check-up. He's a little thrown by the question.
Well we've got puzzles, games, a swing set...
My guess is he needs more. More exercise, more space.
We'll work on that. Stewart continues examining Caesar. Will watches her listen to his heart. Closing her eyes for a moment, listening.
What about you?
How about dinner and a movie? Stewart pulls the stethoscope from her ears.
I'm sorry, did you say something? He starts to try again - but the moment's gone.
No - nothing. Caesar meets Will's eyes, obviously disappointed. Stewart lingers a moment, certain she's missed something - but Will doesn't say more.
Take him off the leash.
There's a place up ahead.
Don't go far. Stay where I can see you. Will takes OFF CAESAR'S HARNESS. The chimpanzee runs, begins flying from tree to tree. Will watches, nervous. But it's gratifying to see Caesar so happy. The CHIMP DISAPPEARS around a corner. A moment passes, then another. The men follow... and discover CAESAR STANDING IN A
Go ahead. Climb! The men sit down on a log, watching as Caesar swings from the branches. Free, elated. An animal in his element. Caesar begins climbing a redwood. Our view of him is obscured by the leaves. As his dark form ascends, Will and Walter become smaller and smaller down below.
Sorry to rush you - got to get home and check on Walter. They approach a WOMAN with a LARGE DOG on a leash - a GREAT DANE. The dog BARKS, lunging menacingly. The Woman struggles to control him.
Don't worry - he's harmless. Very sweet. The big dog keeps BARKING. Annoyed, Caesar finally turns and gives him a LARGE,
Guess he had it coming. Caesar watches as the Woman walks off with the dog, HIS GAZE
Where's Dr. Stewart?
She doesn't work here anymore.
Do you know where she went?
I'm sorry - I don't. Will's deeply disappointed.
Will looks back and forth between the chimps and Caesar. Neither makes a sound.
Come on. As Will drags Caesar off, the apes in the enclosure climb higher in the tree to watch. Suddenly they ALL BEGIN TO
He runs two fingers down the length of it.
Turn it around, Dad. You're using the wrong end. Walter looks at Will, uncomprehending. With care and compassion, Caesar reaches over and helps the old man, adjusting the spoon. Will watches. Heartbroken.
The drug's not staying ahead of the disease.
But we're still making progress, right? Will tries to tamp down the frustration he's sure is written all over his face.
Sure. At this pace we'll get to trials by the time Hell freezes over. Jacobs - embarrassed in front of the Tech - pulls him aside.
This isn't graduate school - there's a procedure we have to adhere to.
It'll take forever. I need to start developing a primate version now. Jacobs looks at Will. He's known him a long time.
How's your father? Haven't seen him in a while.
This isn't about him.
He's worse, isn't he? Will wants to tell Jacobs the truth - he's tempted to tell him about Caesar, about Walter's treatment - but he can't.
 Caesar continues to maintain a high level of cognition. But Walter's disease has caught up to the neurogenesis treatment. Nearly all initial improvement has been erased... Will stops recording. KICKS his desk in frustration.
Who Caesar.
What do you mean?
Who. With effort, Will pulls himself from his own thoughts and tries to understand what Caesar wants from him.
Who.
Caesar is an ape.
No "what". "Who". Will is taken aback - beginning to realize the intellectual leap Caesar's taken.
Are you asking about your identity? That's abstract thought, Caesar. Caesar couldn't care less about 'abstract thought.'
Walter Will father. Will Caesar father? Will looks at the chimp - sees the intensity, the pain on his face. How to begin to answer?
This is where you were born. It's the place where I work.
I never knew your father, but your mother came to live here. This is where you were born.
Caesar mother?
She was very very smart. And she passed that onto you through her blood. Caesar strains for a better view. Undoes his seatbelt.
Caesar go. Caesar see. Will locks the car door.
She's not here anymore. I'm sorry, Caesar - she died. That's when I brought you home to live with me and Walter. Caesar's getting worked up - he wants out of the car.
Caesar mother... Will grows concerned.
No. This is a bad place for you, Caesar. We're going to go now.
Let's see if we can find something for you on the TV...
The Icarus crew is led by Commander Colonel George Taylor. This is his fifth space mission...
Look at the front of my car you stupid, stupid old man! You should be locked up! Your son's going to pay for that damage -
Caesar... Straddling Hunsiker, teeth bared, Caesar pounds him with his fists.
Help! Get him off -
Caesar... no... Stop! Walter grabs Caesar by the shoulders, tries to pull him back. But Caesar's too carried away by his rage - he shrugs the old man off his back. Then he grabs one of Hunsiker's hands and BITES OFF THE
Aaaaaaaah! Walter struggles to his feet and grabs Caesar again. A PULSE
Caesar! Caesar hesitates. Blood dripping down his chin, he looks over his shoulder and meets Walter's eyes.
Please stop. Hunsiker uses the distraction. He scrabbles to his feet and sprints for his house.
Please no... Caesar pounds his chest, YELLING in triumph. But then he sees something across the street that abruptly pulls him out of his euphoria: WALTER - STRUGGLING, BLOODY -
.chimpanzee named Caesar, terrorizing the quiet family enclave and mauling neighbor Douglas Hunsiker, a pilot for Global Airlines.
The defense claimed the chimp was merely trying to protect its owner from perceived aggression. FOOTAGE OF WILL LEAVING A COURTHOUSE, avoiding News Crews. Jacobs sits forward, turns up the volume.
The chimpanzee's distraught owner, Wilson Rodman, has raised the animal since he was an infant.
He pleaded to keep Caesar at home, citing the ape's remarkable intelligence. Will and a chimpanzee? Jacobs stares at the TV, dumbfounded.
We're visiting a place called "The Ranch". They have animals.
Real animals?
You bet. Apes. Chimpanzees, gorillas, orangutans... Caesar GRUNTS, excited.
It'll be good. You'll like it very much. Caesar looks at Will, picking up on something.
Will sad?
What? No, I'm fine.
A HOUSE/OFFICE, a LIVING QUARTERS, a HORSE PADDOCK - all cold, efficient structures.
Where animals?
Inside, I think...
You must be Mr. Landon.
Nice to meet you, Caesar. This is Dodge, helps me run the place.
I've been telling Caesar about the animals you have here. How much fun it is.
Yes, we have a big play center where the chimpanzees like to climb.
What do you think, Caesar? Want to give it a try? Trying to mask his growing dread, Will removes Caesar's harness.
Go ahead. He watches Caesar - unsuspecting - move through AN OPEN, GATE-
He braces himself.
It's okay, Caesar. It's going to be okay... The words are for him as much as Caesar.
You're going to live here for a while. This is what the Judge says we have to do.
They'll take good care of you here.
That's about it for visiting hours. Will shoots him a look of daggers.
What Dodge means is, in our experience, longer you drag out the leave-taking, harder it is. On both of you. Caesar WHIMPERS, tries to bend the bars apart. When this doesn't work, he tries prying them open with his teeth.
I'm sorry to trick you this way, but you would never have agreed. I was afraid they'd hurt you if they forced you -
He'll be fine. Will gives Caesar a last, long look. The pain in his eyes is matched only by Caesar's. WE STAY WITH CAESAR as Will forces himself to walk away. Caesar's SHRIEKS build. The SURROUNDING APES chime in...a
Caesar. Hey. I can get you out. Dodge stands at the end of the atrium, BECKONING.
This way.
Caesar - over here. Dodge stands at a cage door. Caesar sprints for it, as for salvation-but AS SOON AS HE CROSSES THE THRESHOLD, HE
Stupid monkey.
Then he begins frantically grabbing at the bars, jumping to the ceiling, searching for a way out. To his left: the faces of THREE HUGE, AGITATED CHIMPANZEES pound the concrete floor, YELLING at him. To his right:
Okay, assholes. Dinner time. Rocket - slowly and deliberately, with a last threatening look to Caesar - moves off. Caesar crawls to the edge of his cage and peers out. Dodge and another animal wrangler, RODNEY, move from cage to cage, SHOVELING PRIMATE CHOW INTO TROUGHS. Rodney tosses in an occasional rotted vegetable. The APES enthusiastically receive the food. Dodge shovels food into Caesar's trough. Caesar stares down at the wet- looking dog food.
Mmmm mmm. Grade A primate chow. Bet you don't get none of that in the suburbs. Caesar reaches into the disgusting goop and THROWS A HANDFUL IN DODGE'S FACE. The apes SCREAM with LAUGHTER. Rodney looks away so Dodge doesn't see him laughing too.
Think that's funny? That funny to you, you hairy prick? Caesar stares at Dodge... then SHOOTS HIM THE FINGER.
Look at that! Infuriated, Dodge grabs a hose, drags it to Caesar's cage.
One thing you can count on: Long as there are humans on this earth, you'll always be a monkey in a cage. The BURST from the HOSE sends Caesar flying backwards. Pinned into a corner, he curls himself into a ball, using his back as a shield. The water BLAST is relentless. Eventually, Dodge turns the water off. The two men take a long look at Caesar. He's left battered and soaked on the floor.
What about his clothes? Might cause problems with the other apes.
Leave 'em.
John? Walter enters, looks at Will.
John - where's Caesar? The old man looks stricken.
Shouldn't we look for him? Isn't there something we can do? Will looks up at his father. He's just had an idea.
You've been gone a week.
I was sick.
Too sick to return my calls? You know it was a funny thing, but I was watching the news and they started talking about a seven-year- old chimpanzee that went nuts - and all of a sudden, there you were on the TV. A seven year old chimp, raised since birth. The cafeteria gets a little awkward as Jacobs raises his voice. Neither man cares.
He's the son of chimp 4. And he's smart. Off-the-charts smart. Because of the 112. The genetic therapy was passed in utero - from the mother to the son. Without a single negative side-effect.
Aside from biting off a man's finger.
He was protecting my father. The same way his mother was protecting him.
We've had this conversation already. We knew the 112 was making the apes smart -
I had a sample vial.
You're out of your mind. Like a chess player, Will lets the unasked question sit there. And Jacobs is undeniably, voraciously curious.
Don't you want to know if it worked? Jacobs can't resist...
Did it?
It was miraculous. Unquestionable adult neurogenesis - development of fresh nerve tissue.
You told me he was failing.
It's just like with the mice. Alzheimer's is a progressive disease, you need to keep it at bay - you need boosters.
Why have you waited so long to tell me this?
I couldn't risk losing him.
'Him'?
Caesar.
The ape? Jacobs looks at his old friend, wondering about his sanity.
We've discovered a safe treatment. It's the payday you've been waiting for. I'll recreate the primate version of 112 for you.
You're giving me conditions? I could have you arrested for what you've done.
But you won't - you need me to build the drug. Here's what I need: I want you to get Caesar back.
However they do things in your part of the world. Get attorneys into it. Write checks. Slip cash into the right pockets.  Make it happen.
THE ORANGUTAN HOUSE - which is empty. And THE GORILLA HOUSE, which houses only one lone gorilla, BUCK, who stares out at Caesar. Caesar registers THE FACT THAT BUCK'S NOT OUT WITH THE OTHER APES. Then he moves on toward the atrium. The APES are visible inside. CAESAR GETS HIS FIRST GOOD LOOK. Over two dozen CHIMPANZEES and three ORANGUTANS roam around the atrium. The groups don't mix - chimps hang with chimps, orangutans with orangutans. They haven't noticed him yet.
Caesar looks around, finds THIRTY PAIRS OF APE EYES ON HIM. Should he continue to the tree? Go back to the cage?
Caesar. Stewart stands over him. The light shines'behind her head.
Do you remember me? I'm Dr. Stewart. She hands him a cup of water with a straw.
Drink. Caesar doesn't want the water. He signs. She clearly doesn't understand. He signs again.
I don't understand. Caesar's desperate. He opens his mouth, makes a LONG, LOW SOUND. She's taken aback - is he trying to speak?
Can you show me? Show me what you need. Caesar pulls at the restraints.
I can't take those off. Caesar sags with defeat, overcome with DESPAIR.
I'm sorry this has happened, Caesar. So sorry. Stewart stares at him. Moved at the complexity of his emotion, the obvious intelligence behind his pain.
I'm here once a week. I'll do my best to look after you.
What were you thinking?
oh, hey Doc.
That chimp needs protection. Dodge's face falls.
You could've gotten him killed.
Can't you see how sensitive he is? How intelligent?
Yeah, no, he's a real smart dresser.
I want him moved to the orangutan house. He'll be safe there until we re-introduce him to the group.
I'm sorry, since when do volunteer animal doctors make the rules around here?
Please. Just do it.
Whatever you say, doc. Dodge returns to stacking the chow.
You're the one with the college education.
Dr. Rodman - I think there's been a mistake. Will's been waiting for this observation - he's surprised it took so long to come up.
I've double-checked the replication rate of the 113 - and it's enormously fast compared to the
That's why we're using it. We need the drug quickly.
But... isn't it risky? I mean, at this rate of propagation, we greatly increase the possibility of mutations that are out of our control. It's a highly unstable -
I appreciate your concern - but it's going to be fine. We plan on taking precautions. The Technician pauses, not entirely satisfied. But Will's look tells him the conversation is over.
Sorry to drop in on you like this. The clinic at the zoo gave me your address but they didn't have a phone number -
Can I - you want a cup of coffee or something?
No - thanks. I just wanted to let you know that I've seen Caesar. Seen Caesar?
How?
I volunteer once a week at The Ranch.
Is he alright? She hesitates, wanting to be honest but not alarming.
Yeah. He had a rough start, but things should get smoother from now on... In the other room, Walter and his Aide become visible. Will follows Stewart's curious gaze.
That's my dad. He's not doing too well.
Oh. Sorry.
Thank you... I appreciate that. Awkward beat.
Well. If you give me your number I'll let you know from time to time how things are going -
Let's grab a drink. Takes her by surprise. Maybe takes him by surprise too. She's happy he asked.
Love to.
ROCK AND ROLL MUSIC. Dodge and Rodney drive up in a truck, windows down, radio blaring. Dodge gets out, cigarette in his mouth, and moves drunkenly to the storage shed. 40 He emerges with two BEERS, throws one to Rodney.
Want a beer? The chimp reaches but Dodge pulls it away.
Here's a little taste of beer... He unzips his fly and PISSES INTO THE CHIMP'S FEEDING TROUGH. Caesar watches, disgusted.
Rodney moves to the orangutan house. CAESAR PAYS CLOSE
There you are! I heard what happened.
I'm going to get you out of here, but not today. I'm working on it. Caesar's face falls.
Soon. I promise. Will notices Dodge's ELECTRIC CATTLE PROD.
 Not yet. I can't yet. Caesar realizes: Will's going to leave him here. First incredulous - then outraged - Caesar turns away and starts walking back to his cage.
Wait a second - Caesar, where are you going? Caesar doesn't respond, doesn't turn, just keeps walking. Dodge catches up with him.
 No place like home, huh monkey boy?
Caesar - come back here! He watches Caesar's retreating back, Dodge trotting alongside him. Realizes Caesar's nearly breaking into a run.
You son of a bitch. Dodge scrabbles to his feet, wipes the blood from his nose.
That was not a smart thing to do. Dodge is clearly much tougher, stronger than Will, but Will's too angry to care.
If I find out Caesar's been hurt, if he's mistreated in any way, I swear I'll have you brought up on charges. Dodge looks towards Landon's house, restrains himself.
That wild-eyed chimp isn't yours any more. He's mine now. The truth of the statement is worse than any punch.
And you're on private property. Now get the hell out of here.
Forget jail. I'll come back and kill you.
Morning Caesar.
How's your arm? Mind if I take a look? Stewart rummages in her MEDICAL BAG. CAESAR WATCHES AS SHE PULLS OUT A PAIR OF SCISSORS, cuts off his bandages.
Looking good... Caesar makes eye contact with Dodge over Stewart's shoulder. She pulls a harness from her bag.
I'm taking him out. Thought I'd cheer him up, show him the horses.
No way. As she walks to Dodge, CAESAR GLANCES INTO HER MEDICAL BAG.
What are you going to do? Use a cattle prod on me?
If you're into that kind of thing.
I'm safer with him than I am with you.
Answer's no.
I can't take you.  Maybe another time.
Which one of you wants chocolate... Chimpanzees stare back at him, giving him nothing. NOISE FROM BEHIND. Will turns. Down the row, A CHIMPANZEE
"Koba."
Nanotherapy, beta version: Male Test Subject Number eleven.
Koba's eyes are on him as he brings the mask toward the chimp's face.
You actually punched him?
I did. She thinks it's funny.
I've been wanting to do that since the day I met him.
I don't advise it. My hand's killing me.
Here. Let me help you out. She begins feeding him the Chinese food. He puts down his chopsticks.
I'm going to get him out of there.
I know you are.
And I'm going to get my dad back too.
There's a GRUNT and a WHIRL OF BLACK FURRY MOVEMENT. Caesar finds himself staring into the huge, angry gorilla face. Caesar - nervous - beckons toward the open door. Buck understands but can't believe it. For a moment he doesn't move. Caesar makes the gesture again -- "Come on, let's go." Before he can finish, Buck bursts past him...
The gorilla feels his feet on the grass, savoring every step. Then he begins to run. He runs as fast as he can, all the way across the atrium, then all the way back. Back and forth, GORILLA WIND SPRINTS of freedom. Caesar stands back, silently watching.
Happy gorilla. Caesar's shocked.
Surprise.
Signing orangutan.
Maurice circus orangutan.
More ape sign?
No. Maurice alone. They HEAR DODGE'S WHEELBARROW APPROACH.
Careful. Stupid human no like smart ape. Dodge begins shoveling primate chow into the troughs. Maurice and Caesar stop signing and blend in.
Rocket GRUNTS and sprints after him - through the chimpanzee common area - toward the door - Where WHAM! CAESAR WHACKS HIM IN THE HEAD WITH ROCKET'S
Buck raises his arms and SLAMS them down with a MIGHTY ROAR; Caesar slings the plastic refrigerator aside, sending it SKITTERING across the CONCRETE. The chimpanzees, awake now, watch to see what will happen. Rocket looks from Buck to Caesar. He's beaten.
Hold him steady! Evans tightens the straps on Koba's flailing arm.
You okay Evans?
Yeah. I'm good.
You can't put larger blocks on top of smaller ones.  Move the stack from here to here. Koba takes the puzzle and ROTATES IT 180 DEGREES CLOCKWISE,
Let's see you try. Koba puts out a palm - asking for an M&M.
I'll give you an M&M if you can get the blocks to the other side - but don't do it the way you did last time. Koba thinks, then ROTATES THE PUZZLE AGAIN - THIS TIME COUNTERCLOCKWISE. Ingenious in its own way.
You know what I want. You're just not going to give it to me. Koba puts out a palm. There's A LOOK IN HIS EYE, MALEVOLENT,
What do you think of Koba?
You wanna know if I think the 113's making him nuts.
I know he's smart. But there's something else, something worrisome. He challenges me. Taunts me. Will looks toward us, toward the bars.
 I don't want to try it on...
What you're seeing has nothing to do with the 113, Doc. The apes're just like us - they're complex. Some are loyal, some are selfish, some have a good sense of humor. And some are born rotten. Koba moves into frame. We've been watching from his point of view, from inside the cage. Now we look over his shoulder, where the sharp planes of his face frame the two men across the room.
This one's a bad apple, that's all. A chill runs down Will's spine.
Actually I'm not feeling too good.
You know what: Whiskey, lemon, honey and a cup of hot water. Never fails.
Thanks - I'm on it. Evans drives off.
Still won't eat, won't come out.
I can fix that. Dodge drags the hose to Rocket's cage.
Get that monkey ass out of there!
He hands the cookie bag to Rocket. Rocket watches - confused - as CAESAR PULLS THE MAIN LEVER,
Maurice climbs up next to Caesar.
Why cookie Rocket?
Need strong. All apes strong.
No understand. Caesar grabs a small twig off the tree and BREAKS IT.
Gorilla. He breaks another twig.
Orangutan. He breaks another.
Chimpanzee. He grabs a bunch of twigs and holds them together - now they can't be broken.
Apes.
Someone's sleeping late today - Will opens the door - and FREEZES IN HIS TRACKS.
Dad?
Sorry - can't get him to come out. He won't budge.
He knows I'm here?
I told him. Will brushes by Rodney, heads for the cages.
Hey - you are not allowed back
Will ignores him, keeps going.
Caesar - please! I've got something to tell you -
NASA has temporarily lost communication with the Icarus.
Captain Taylor and his crew are navigating the ship around the dark side of Mars. Communication is expected to be reestablished -
I was too late. She puts the photo down, cuddles against him.
You tried. You worked really hard. Walter knew that.
Wasn't good enough though, was it. ANGLE ON THE PHOTOGRAPH. It shows a younger Walter and his two teenage sons...
Just checking in. You didn't show up at work today.
Hope you're feeling better - let me know if you need anything.
Where go?
Find Mother.
As he passes the chimpanzee house HE HEARS A CHIMPANZEE CALL OUT. He turns. Finds Rocket staring out at him, wanting to go with him. Caesar hesitates. Rocket CALLS OUT LOUDER. To quiet him, Caesar walks over to Rocket's cage, but as he gets closer, he sees something that gives him pause: ROCKET'S
Reeling, Caesar tries to make sense of this. And then he remembers the bite. Rocket bit him. He looks down at the wound on his arm, now nearly healed. Has Caesar's blood changed Rocket? Caesar opens Rocket's'cage. The chimp emerges, ready for anything.
He stands there, looking down at Will and Stewart. His face is impossible to read.
Caesar reaches the last cage, where A YOUNG CHIMP, sick, stares back at him. Caesar turns away, crestfallen.
But Rocket's too fast - in a moment he's out of sight.
Except for CORNELIA - she's wide awake. Staring at him.
There's a CLANKING as the OUTSIDE GATE OPENS. Caesar freezes. Dodge enters with the wheelbarrow of Primate Chow and the shovel. Locks the door behind him. He hasn't seen Caesar yet.
Rise and shine, assholes. The chimps wake. One by one they notice Caesar, standing in the common area.
What the hell - (seeing Cornelia's open
You sly son of a bitch. How'd you do that? Dodge is careful, slow, as he picks up the shovel and holds it in front of him. He circles around the common area toward Cornelia's cage.
We're gonna go slow here, alright? You're gonna go back in your cage, you're not going to give me no trouble.
Back! Caesar reacts, a snarl curling his lips. Keeping his eyes on Caesar, sweat dripping down his temples, Dodge KICKS CORNELIA'S CAGE SHUT. Now he starts moving forward, trying to back Caesar toward the orangutan cage.
We're going to have you fixed, Einstein, that's for damn sure... But first we're going to figure out how you pulled this off...
Go on. Get in that cage. Caesar stops, refusing to go any farther.
I said get! But Caesar doesn't move. Dodge pokes the shovel at him, then SLAMS it to the cement floor. He edges closer to Caesar, grip tightening around the shovel handle. Then he rears it back, face contorted in rage.
Get in that cage, you damn dirty ape!
 No!
Caesar drags Dodge to Rocket's cage and opens the door. Rocket helps pull him inside.
Will? Hello? Will pick up the goddamned phone!
Hello?
The animal handler - Franklin - was killed last night. In the primate house.
Franklin's dead?
Something very powerful broke his neck. Snapped it in two.
Could it have been one of our chimps?
All our apes are accounted for - secured in their cages. But here's the kicker: One of our security guards swears he chased a chimpanzee off the grounds last night. Will - with growing dread - looks out the window at Caesar's swing.
Where in the hell did that chimp come from?!
The Ranch. Landon speaking.
Let me call you back... He HEARS THE BACK KITCHEN DOOR OPEN. RUSTLING NOISES in the kitchen. Opening and closing of cabinets.
Hey Dodge - Stewart just called - WE FOLLOW HIM out of the living-room, into the...
She said that -
You go get help.
Not a way in the world. I'm coming with you.
Oh my God... I'm calling 911.. Will picks up Landon's BINOCULARS, moves to the front window. HE SEES: Debris everywhere. Apes free, wandering... DODGE, LANDON and RODNEY BATTERED AND IN CAGES.
Caesar. Will lowers the binoculars as Stewart rushes in. She's trembling.
It's going to take them at least half an hour to get here. He begins rummaging in drawers, in cabinets. There's an empty cookie bag, but Will's able to put his hands on a couple of stray COOKIES. He has an idea. Under the sink he finds what he's looking for: RAT POISON.
What are you doing?
I'm going to kill him.
He's dangerous.
You're wrong - he can't have been the one who killed that man -
There is no other explanation. A BLACK SHADOW passes by the window. Then another. Stewart turns. Now there's another. They're surrounded. She SCREAMS. Will barricades the back door with a table. Chimpanzees at every window BANGING ON THE GLASS, wanting in.
Will and Stewart run to the front room, just as the door
Caesar! I need to talk to you! Dodge, Rodney and Landon watch as Will and Stewart are pushed into the cage next door.
Caesar!
Welcome to the mad house.
I called Animal Control - they'll be here soon -
 I just want to talk to you!
Well this'll be interesting because your freak'll talk back.
Dodge thinks he spoke to him.
He did! He said the word "no" - right to my face.
What do you mean?
He can talk.
That's impossible.
Then he must have a voicebox in his ass, because I heard him! Caesar walks up. Will steels himself, feels in his pocket - the POISONED COOKIE is ready.
Caesar - people are coming. People with guns. You've got to make the apes go back in their cages.
Finally he brings the POISONED COOKIE from his pocket, holds it out.
I brought this for you. Caesar eyes the cookie but doesn't take it.
 Don't you want it?
You went to the lab last night. I know it was you. Caesar doesn't deny it.
 How could you kill that man, Caesar? Once you kill you can't it back - that man's gone forever.
But...
Don't walk away. We need to talk.
Don't - !
Caesar wait! But Caesar's not waiting.
C...Cage! The humans' jaws drop, petrified.
They could be spread out all over the County by now. Will and Stewart - released from the cages - speak to OFFICER HUFFS. Dodge, Rodney, and Landon huddle nearby.
No - they'll stick together.
There's a leader?
His name is Caesar. If I can reason with him, I know I can put an end to this.
Reason with him? Huffs thinks he's nuts. He turns, starts toward his squad car. Will follows, Stewart on his heel.
You don't understand - this chimp is smart - he'll listen to me
 Get on the horn with every agency you can think of! We've got to track down these monkeys before they do major damage! The Junior Officer - GRANGER - heads for his car. Dodge follows.
You need me riding with you. I've got experience with these animals.  I can point out the one you want.
 If you think of anything else, this is where I can be reached - A RUMBLING SOUND from behind. They turn to see a RANCH APE ARMY heading their way. Shocked, they leap out of the way as best they can.
We have a situation at Gen-Sys Laboratory! Approximately two dozen apes, gorillas, I don't know what the hell they are - AUDIBLE CHAOS from inside the lab. YELLING, SCREAMING,
The lab.
You know anything about this?
That's where I work.
Here they come!
There's more of them!
Out of the quiet there's the PADDING SOUND OF FOOTSTEPS ON
Jacobs freezes. KOBA APPEARS from around a doorway. He and Jacobs look at each other for a long moment. Then Koba calmly walks past him.
Any idea where they're headed? Will sees Dodge joining SHARPSHOOTERS in another helicopter below. He doesn't like it.
No.
They were seen heading north from the lab - let's start with that.
KIDS EVERYWHERE - slides, seesaws, climbing structures. A LITTLE GIRL plays in a sandbox. Her MOTHER reads on a bench nearby. The Girl looks up, claps her hands.
Monkey! OVER HER SHOULDER WE SEE A CHIMPANZEE HEADING OUR WAY. Then another. And another.
Mommy? The Girl's surrounded now by moving apes --- the Mother can't get to her.
April! Suddenly Caesar doubles back from the lead. He scoops her up and puts her down out of harm's way. Then he continues herding the apes forward. He knows where he's going. SIRENS APPROACH. Squad cars give chase.
You see them?
No, I can't see -
Oh my god. Seated next to Will, she draws him to her window. FAR BELOW: it looks like a BLACK LOCUST moving through the urban sprawl - chased by numerous Squad Cars - directly behind them, along parallel streets... She realizes something.
I know where they're going.
He's going to release the apes. Looking to his left, Will sees a sniper try to get shots off - but hesitate. The apes are too interspersed with fleeing PATRONS.
What the hell am I supposed to do when they get here?! An APE WRANGLER screams into a wall phone at the Ape Enclosure. The ZOO APES are agitated and anxious - they know something's coming. Suddenly the phone is ripped from wall. The Wrangler cowers, turns to see Caesar and his apes. Rocket rattles the door, bares his teeth. The Wrangler understands - fumbles for his keys.
That's him! The one with the white on his shoulder! A SNIPER takes aim at Caesar - the BULLET RICOCHETS OFF THE
Where to, my man?
24 Marigold.
Want me to turn down the air?
SNIPER FIRE RINGS OUT from helicopters above - an APE FALLS. Caesar's leading, running alongside Cornelia. She falters. Caesar slows with her, concerned. SHE LOOKS ILL. But Cornelia digs deep and picks up her speed. Caesar continues on.
Below, the BLACK LOCUST that is the pack of apes has grown larger, but they stay together, moving implacably North through the San Francisco streets. Up ahead, the GOLDEN GATE BRIDGE COMES INTO VIEW - majestic, shimmering in the afternoon light. And Will realizes the moment he sees it.
They're going to Muir Woods.  I'm sure of it. He doesn't want to hurt anyone - he's just trying to get the apes out of the City!
No - let them through!
Caesar rushes to Cornelia's side. By the time he reaches her, she's dead - a WHITE FOAM has formed at her lips. She's been poisoned.
FLASHBACK of Cornelia, sniffing the cookie. Will yelling "Don't"...
Caesar - devastated, the rage building in his face. He looks up as one of the HELICOPTERS BUZZES LOW - HE SEES
No - not him.
Caesar SIGNALS TO MAURICE. Maurice glances over the bridge railing. The Bay churns and swirls hundreds of feet below. Caesar BARKS at Maurice, who then climbs over the railing, taking the orangutans and a handful of chimps with him. Caesar BARKS a command at BUCK - who waits by the last car with a PACK OF GORILLAS and some chimps. Then Caesar starts to climb. Shimmying up a cable and into the fog. Rocket's right behind. The remaining apes follow.
Orangutans and apes descend below the bridge deck. And Buck with his gorilla, take refuge in the stalled traffic.
Apes shimmying up cables appear out of the fog, arriving at the MAIN CABLE - the thick one running along the top. They start scampering and swinging north, the FOG MOVING AND
They FIRE at the apes above them, but it's tough going - the apes are in constant motion, and the fog obscures them. BULLETS can be heard RICOCHETING off cables. Another chimp falls to its death. Then a heavy patch of fog rolls in, engulfing the middle part of the bridge, surrounding the barricade. Visibility's practically zero.
They're all around us! Apes swing above them, scamper by them. Movement - WHOOSH -
DODGE - nervous - crouches low. He edges backwards, hopeful of some visibility. That's when he SEES CAESAR, CLEAR AND OUT OF THE FOG,
He SHOOTS, BARELY MISSING. The bullet RICOCHETS off the main cable. ROCKET, climbing behind Caesar, looks down - SEES DODGE AIMING AGAIN. He starts swinging towards Caesar. Another shot from Dodge. This time the BULLET GRAZES
Then, using all his strength, ROCKET PULLS CAESAR BACK UP TO
Rocket's hit in the back! He and Caesar make eye contact as ROCKET FALLS OFF THE
The GORILLAS ARE IN MOTION. LEAD BY BUCK, THEY CHARGE TOWARD
Like a freight train of menacing power. Helicopters FIRE, MEN at the barricade SHOOT as they try to back up. A gorilla falls... but they keep on coming. And now, climbing up from below - behind the barricade -- MAURICE AND THE ORANGUTANS join in. Their sheer numbers and power are unstoppable.
As the fog lifts for a moment, WE SEE APES SWINGING ON
Terrified but refusing to run, Dodge fires, reloads, fires
Will's helicopter has set down. He and Stewart stand near an ASSEMBLING ARMY -- an amalgamation of 'human special forces.' Huffs and a small GROUP OF OFFICERS debate nearby.
We can't gas the forest! The slightest wind would take it over to Tiburon.
Well it'll take us months to find them in there.
Not to mention rounding them all up. Will approaches the group.
I know where they are. The Officers look at him. Who the hell is this guy? Huffs - embarrassed - gestures toward Will.
This man owns one of the chimps.
His name is Caesar. I think he'll listen to me. If he comes out, the other apes will follow. Sounds pretty far-fetched.
You think you know where to find this monkey? Will starts to correct him - lets it go.
I do. I used to bring him here. The Officers look at each other.
We don't have a lot of options. Let's give it a try.
But you have to promise me - if I can get them out, you'll take them peacefully. Tranquilize them, cage them. No killing. Beat.
Whatever it takes.
You think this is a bad idea?
Definitely. He thought so.
He's never going to agree to come out with you.
I know. Got to try, right? I owe him that much. Will kisses her. Heads off down the path. Then he pauses, turns to look at her.
 What? Will waves it off - never mind. Stewart watches him walk down the trail... and disappear into the woods.
Follow me. Stewart double-takes, sees the ARMY HEAD OFF IN WILL'S
Hang on a second...  Where are they going?
Caesar! ... He keeps walking, almost there. A DARK FIGURE DROPS DOWN IN
Will takes a step back, fear crawling up the back of his neck.
You. Koba stands up tall. Eyes Will. He takes his time - like he's enjoying every second of this... He walks towards will, bares his teeth. Suddenly CAESAR APPEARS, SLAMMING INTO KOBA, knocking him away.
Humans coming.
No. I'm alone. Will pauses - there's so much he wants to say.
I owe you an apology.
Will want Caesar dead.
I thought you had killed a man. But I should have known better. Caesar's face is unreadable. Will can't tell what he's thinking.
I want you to know that all of this is my fault. My responsibility.
Will leave.
I won't -
Will leave now.
No. I'm staying with you. Caesar pushes him. Will staggers backwards, falls down. At that moment, HUFFS and his ARMY step into the clearing. Huffs takes aim at Caesar.
Will tries to speak. He looks up at Caesar. Caesar takes him in his arms, cradles him with love. Will looks into Caesar's green eyes. He relaxes. Lets go. Then the life passes out of him.
Where to, my man? It's the Taxi Driver with the mustache - THE SAME ONE THAT
SFO. International terminal.
You got it. The Driver COUGHS as he pulls away. Light sweat on his forehead - he doesn't look too good.
