Come into the light.. Come into the light
Mother...
You are made for the light, Orson Now you must blow out your candles. But you must always remember, the cake itself is nothing. The flame, the lights, that is where your future lies. You must have a dream. A great dream worthy of you.
He came to the town of magic and dreams a flashing star blazing through the firmament of illusion. And he promised to devour the world in a single gulp. He was 24 years old and his name was George Orson Welles. Sound the trumpets! Unfurl the banners, Hollywood! The Boy Wonder has arrived!
He made his debut on the world stage in Kenosha, Wisconsin, on the 6th of May, 1915. And on the 7th of May he spoke his first words, and unlike other children who say commonplace things like "momma" and "poppa", he proclaimed "I am a genius!"
So how could the magic of the stage not call to this adventurous lad? Unstoppable and resolute, the Boy Wonder journeyed into the world of the legit theater. After a peripatetic beginning he found himself at last in New York where he joined forces with theatrical producer John Houseman under the august auspices of the WPA Federal Theater.
Orson barreled in and took over. Orson's a real barreler.
Like Hannibal over the Alps, the Boy Genius invaded the Great White Way. He stunned the sedate elite of New York theatre with production after production. From MACBETH with an entirely colored cast to a Mussolini-inspired JULIUS CAESAR!
Though he wowed the critics with his spectaculars the ticket sales left something to be desired. So, after founding the Mercury Players with Houseman, young Mr. Welles quickly set his sights on the airwaves. He quickly became the sonorous -' voice of "The Shadow." ''
Who knows what evil lurks in the hearts of men? The Shadow knows. . .
With Lament Cranston in one pocket and his own radio show. The Mercury Theater of the Air, our Boy Wonder filled the night with his resounding tones. And on October 30th of 1938, he became what he felt destined to be: a household name.
THE WAR OF THE WORLDS sent this nation spinning into a frenzy. Nine million listeners clasped their loved ones close and looked to the skies with horror. Unlucky listeners near the epicenter of the "invasion" -- rural New Jersey -- ran screaming into the night, sure a monstrous alien and a fiery death awaited them around every corner! The mischievous Boy Wonder had fooled us all!
 Of course ... of course ... if I had known the panic the broadcast was causing -- well I would have stopped! I never meant for any of this to happen and I feel just horrible!
How long, oh how long could it possibly be before the sunny land of dreams tried to harness the combustible power of this showman, this impresario, this best of all possible Boy Wonders?!
The winner in the Welles derby was George Schaefer, the head of RKO Pictures. With a contract unimaginable before The Days Of Orson, Mr. Schaefer captured the whirlwind snared the beast, roped the tyrant!
Eyebrows raised and jaws dropped all over Hollywoodland when the terms of the deal that lured The Great Orson came forth: the Boy Wonder could produce, write, direct and star in his own projects with budgets up to $500,000 a picture! He would have total control over the shooting of the picture and the finished product. The studio, well, they just paid the bills. Meanwhile, the insiders of filmland were skeptical.
John Ford doesn't have a deal like that. Cecil B. DeMille doesn't have a deal like that. No one has a deal like that! If ya ask me, George Schaefer is just plain nuts
So Cometh Orson! He toured the RKO studio and met with the biggest of the big! He charmed his way through the town from the Brown Derby to the Copacabana, from the Pacific Palisades to the Hollywood Hills!
Yes, the Boy Wonder had arrived! He even charmed those rival maidens of Hollywood gossip, those well- coiffured chroniclers of the dream factory: Hedda Hopper and Louella Parsons.
Orson is the sweetest boy. We're both from the midwest, you know. He's just a local fella making good, ya follow?
So today, almost a year after his arrival in Hollywood, we leave the Boy Wonder still hard at work developing his much-anticipated first feature, preparing to dazzle us all again. We're waiting, Orson!
I'll tell you what, this is the best electric train set a boy ever had!
Who does that cocksucker think he is?
They're laying bets over on the RKO lot that this great deal will end up with him never doing a picture. Back to New York he goes.
Serves him right. I mean can you stomach the arrogance?
Inside skinny says the glory boy's finished, can't come up with a movie. Wants to do a biography now.
After RKO boots him maybe we'll pick him up cheap. Have him do that WAR OF THE WORLDS crap as a feature.
I don't know what you expected with Joseph- fucking-Conrad for Chrissake. I mean this is Hollywood, pal.
All right! Enough! I've heard this from Schaefer and RKO. I've heard it from everyone--
But you keep coming up with the same elitist crap - - HEART OF DARKNESS with a million dollar budget?! - - no one wants to see that.
Nonsense
What are movies about, Orson?
Forget it-
What are movies about?
Telling stories.
Nope.
Showing life
Who the hell wants to see life?! People are sick to death of life! They want make-believe, pal. Fantasy. They want Tarzan and Jane, not Tristan and Isolde.
 Magic
Butts on seats. That's what movies are about. You got one job in Hollywood -- everyone has the same job, in fact -- putting the butts on the seats. You gotta sell 'em popcorn and Pepsi- cola. It's all about popcorn and Pepsi-cola.
Not for me.
Then you better get ready to be the youngest never- was in Hollywood history.
That's better than being the oldest has-been in Hollywood history.
You're a laugh-riot, kid.
Here, turn around.
So, we've got to come up with our movie. Our biography.
Right-
We find the man and then we dissect him-
Like a bug.
But with compassion and insight--
 Christ, we gotta go! The old man doesn't cotton to lateness.
 How do you do, Mr. Hearst? My name is Orson Welles.
How about Howard Hughes? We could do Hughes
I'm not fucking with Hughes. That shit-kicker would kill us dead, baby. Just like Jean Harlow
Howard Hughes killed Jean Harlow?
Sure. Dropped her out of his Lockheed over Utah
center table.
She tenderly rests one hand on Hearst's arm as she speaks. Marion speaks with an occasionally pronounced stutter.
And we would hear them scuttling around at night with their little red eyes and little yellow t-t- teeth and I'm just imagining plague lice jumpin' all over the damn place So we set t-t-traps everywhere. And every morning we would find the t-t-traps sprung but no mice!
Houdini mice.
Just wait. So one night I notice Pops getting outta bed and sneaking away. And he's got this little p-p- paper bag with him, right? Middle of the night. So I figure the old man's really up to no good this time and I follow him. Well I'll be g-g-goddamned if he's not springing all the traps and leaving cheese for the rats!
You and that freak Disney, in love with the damn rats!
They really are sweet little things
Sigmund Freud?
Kid, you just got your ass kicked on Joseph Conrad and now you're gonna go to Schaefer and tell him you wanna do the id and the superego? Stop being so goddamn smart.
 Manolete?!
Who the hell's Manolete?
The great Spanish bullfighter
I don't wanna write about no spic.
No, it's perfect! When in doubt, put on a cape! False noses and faux beards and flowing capes have been the life-blood of the actor's craft since the days of lrving and Booth. (He flourishes his napkin like a bullfighter's cape.) Imagine me in a glittering suit of lights on the dusky Andalusian plains--
Why Mr. Welles is attempting semaphore
Bullfighting, Miss Davies!
And is dear Mank your b-b-bull?
My factotum, ally and comrade-in-arms
Writer, flunkie, pimp--
 You fight many bulls there in New York, Orson?
Ever met Walter Winchell?
 No, when I was but a tender lad--
Last week would this be?
My father and I made a tour of the grand boulevards of antique Europe. And when we were in Iberia I had the chance to face the bulls. At the knee of the great Manolete I took up the cape and sword - (he uses his napkin and knife to demonstrate) -- across from me stood a mammoth bull reputed to have gored a full seven men to a grisly demise! So - - with Manolete shouting encouragement I flourished . . . I flourished again . . . and the bull charged! Across the golden dust it came, thundering like the great minotaur of legend, closer, ever closer, its calamitous hooves pounding into the dirt, shaking the earth as I held the crimson eye of the bull with my own, defying it -- it was almost upon me and I flourished one last time! -- the monster swept past! (he spins his napkin in the air and his knife is now gone, a magic trick) -- and my sword was gone -- buried in the bloody eye of the beast!
 You are evidently a man who knows a great deal about bull.
Of all man's malignity -- of all his sadism -- none is more depraved than cruelty to animals.
In Spain the cruelty would be in denying the beast a fighting end.
Who are you, sir?
My name is Orson Welles
The actor
And director.
I see. And you are in California for what reason?
To make pictures.
And what pictures have you made?
None.
Well, I wish you luck. It is a treacherous business.
So I've been told.
In Hollywood the fiercest bulls are the most brutally killed.
I'll remember that.
Enough Hollywood talk! Can't anyone talk about anything else?
Heard some juicy gossip from Metro.
 Ooh, dish.
 The man doesn't allow drinking or cigars? This is monstrous.
The old man has his own way of doing things
He's nothing but a hypocrite. He preaches morality every day in his sordid little papers for everyone else in the world but he lives openly with his mistress.
Buddy, when you own the largest publishing empire in the universe you can do whatever the hell you want. Think about it, pal. Every day one out of five Americans picks up a Hearst publication. 30 newspapers, a dozen magazines, a bunch of radio stations and the grand dragon of them all. Little Miss Louella Parsons. Tends to give you some of that ol' noblesse oblige.
Look at those hands. Those are the hands of an artist. A modern Caravaggio.
No, baby, those are the hands of a killer
There you are, honey. Aren't you a wonderful girl?
God, these parties are the worst
You need to get outta here, Rapunzel
That's why he has the parties, he says it's like bringing the world to me.
Why don't you come down to LA? Stay with us for a while.
With about twenty of his spies on my tail. No thanks.
 It's not so bad here. After all, what girl doesn't want to live in a castle?
Mr. Welles certainly is a caution
 Yeah, Orson's a real piece of work. But deep down, he's a good kid. Real deep down.
And attractive in a hammy sort of way.
Mm.
Listen, you come down and stay with us for a few days. Just tell the old man that--
I can't
Sure you can, just--
He needs me here.
"In Xanadu did Kubla Khan a stately pleasure dome decree. . . "How big is it, all told? The estate?
The whole joint is half the size of Rhode Island.
Jesus
Yeah, it's the place God would have built, if he'd had the money.
Mankie, Mankie d-d-dance with me
You've been naughty, haven't you, honey?
Shit, can you smell it? You got any sen-sen?
Sorry.
Mr. Welles, you got any--? Oh fuck it.
Meanwhile, Orson, I thought your bullfighting story was nifty. Let's cut a rug.
So you ever gonna do a picture?
Not you too
 It's gonna be fine, Orson. You're gonna do great.
I wonder sometimes.
You're just scared.
Am I?
Sure
And what am I scared of?
Of being found out. Of not being a genius
 Oh, but haven't you heard? I'm the Boy Wonder. I've been a genius since the moment I was born.
We've known each other too long, Orson. Sling the bullshit elsewhere.
Carole, you wound me! As if I could hope to pacify you with evasions of--
Don't insult me with your cute press quotes Save it for Louella.
You make your mark, Orson.
Goddamn it. I gotta have some kinda life!
There's no call for that language-
There certainly is I There certainly is! Aw, to hell with you!
That poor woman.
 She knew what she was signing on for After all, she took the money.
Mank! You scoundrel! What took you so long?!
 Orson, please ... it's too bright
Here you are, up with the birds for once, you vampire!
 Okay, boy wonder, what?
Listen ... I've got it! It came to me like a thief in the night! Pure inspiration! Total magnificence!
Oh for Christ's sake-
I know who we're going to get I The great American biography! A journey into the soul of the beast.
This better be good
Image a man that has shaped his time. A titanic figure of limitless influence. Think about empire. A man with an empire at his feet. A man, like a baron, living in a palace, a glorious palace on a hill, and controlling the permutations of everyone beneath him. Feudal.
 Oh Christ...
Image the possibilities as this man controls the public perception of the nation through his--
Oh Christ
Yes.
 Please don't say this.
Mank-
Don't whisper it. Don't even think it
How long have we spent casting our minds about the world when the answer to our prayers was right here under our noses -- every single day in the newspapers and on the radio -- waiting for us in that ridiculous castle! Waiting for--!
Orson. Stop. Just stop
Now remember he's a public figure who sought out that publicity so legally he can't stop us from--
Listen to you. You child! Men like him don't bother with things like legality. They don't have to. You know why, boy-o?   Power.   Power like you couldn't even begin to imagine.
Howard Hughes, he would just kill us. Hearst he would kill us and fuck everything we ever loved.
We're doing Hearst.
You may think you know what you're talking about, kid, but believe me, you don't. You're talking about going into a battle you can never win on a battlefield so far above things like movies and Hollywood that Hearst won't even have to glance down when he crushes you. When he flicks you away with one finger. I'm talking about money and influence and evil beyond your capacity to imagine Hell.
So speaks the court jester.
Fuck you
I expected more from you.
Sorry to disappoint.
 How does it feel, Mank? Going up to the palace and making all the lords and ladies laugh as you tell your little stories and beg for crumbs at the table? How does it feel being the ugly little monkey they keep to amuse themselves--?!
It feels just fine, you pompous fuck-
I remember a man who wrote I He was a brilliant writer who dazzled me time and time again with his wit and insight--
Don't do this
Where did he go? He hasn't had a screen credit in four years--
Don't do this
 --Because he has been so furiously busy wasting himself. Amusing his keepers. Because he is a sycophant! Because he has been thrown out of every studio in Hollywood and no one will hire him because he's a drunk- -!
AND YOU'RE NOTHING BUT A GODDAMN PHONY! What is all this "Orson Welles" bullshit?! This boy genius crap?! What the fuck did you ever CREATE? You're just another goddamn ACTOR!
Let me out.
Listen to me-
Fuck you--
I am giving you the last chance you will ever have to be yourself again!
 I don't have it anymore?!
When I was a kid I wanted to scorch the world too - - I had all kinda dreams about making great pictures and telling great stories. But all that's finished for me--
It doesn't have to be
And yeah, sure, Hearst's a great subject. Been keeping notes on him for years for my ...  great American novel. But I can't do it anymore. No studio's gonna hire me and I - -
I'll hire you  -- right now-
I can't do it. okay?! I drink too much -- I drink all the fucking time and I don't have it anymore. All that is over for me--
 NOT UNLESS I. TELL YOU IT IS
 Look, Mank, this is our only chance
He'll destroy us.
Then let him. What have we got to lose, you and I?
Take my hand, Mank. And we'll dance one last time. We'll dance to the music of the angels. We'll make history. We'll scorch the earth. We will ... astonish them all.
Thank God you don't write dialogue
So, who is he? We have to know him.
Everyone sees someone different. That's what we show.
How?
Like a jewel. Turn it in the light and a different facet is illuminated.
Go
The key -- the key -- the clue -- what does this man recall on his death bed? Okay, Mank, you're dying. What's the last image that comes to you? Right now.
This girl on a dock. White dress. Never said a word to her.
Why her?
She was . . . innocent
So when was our man innocent? Was there a moment early on -- of innocence and bliss? There must have been. Okay, you're dying - what do you think?
 Something you lost maybe?
Something you can never get back?
Men like Hearst don't love..
All men love. But men like Hearst -- they don't bother with convention because--
They don't have to.
He loves in his own way. On his conditions. Because those are the only conditions he has ever known.
 Hearst looks down at the world at his feet Everything has always been beneath him.
And what does he see?
The people. When they pay him homage, he adores them. But when they have the ... audacity to question him. To doubt him. To embarrass him. Then he despises them.
And when he looks up? What does he dream about?
I'm ready to write it, Orson
Leiand: "You talk about the people as if you owned them. As though they belonged to you. But you don't really care about anything except you."  Craig: "A toast then, Jedediah, to all those people who didn't vote for me today and to love on my own terms. Those are the only terms anybody ever knows. . . "
"...because in the end a man looks into the mirror and sees one face looking back not humanity -- not "the people" -- one face. And he's got to be able to look at that one face and know he was true. "
That's too long. Tighten it up
You're killin' me here, Housey. Okay, make that, Craig: "A toast, Jedediah, to love on my own terms. Those are the only terms anybody ever knows, his own."
Telegram from The Christ Child
"Schaefer loves the idea. Stop. Start writing. Stop. Stop drinking. Stop. Did you work in the jigsaw puzzles. Question mark. Don't stop. Stop. Love you madly, Orson."
That man makes my brain hurt
And Gregg Toland plunks down his Oscar for WUTHERING HEIGHTS and says, "Mr. Welles, I want to shoot your picture. . . "
... And I said, "Mr. Toland, you are the finest cinematographer in Hollywood, why would you desire to work with a stumbling neophyte?"
And he replied, "Mr. Welles, the only way to learn anything new is to work with someone who doesn't know a damn thing."
 Priceless!
Hedda, this movie is going to look like no other picture ever made.
Tome it's a question of truth and illusion. Don't you get tired of the errant falsity in motion pictures?
Huh?
What we are going to do is shoot life -- in all it's joyous complexity.
Consider this quarter, my dear. You can touch it and feel it and were you to lean forward you could even smell it. Why is it that in the movies a simple bit of reality -- a quarter, a room, a man--
Becomes nothing but a lie? A trick. An illusion.
I will show the reality behind the trick.
I will use the illusions of Hollywood to show . . . the truth.
What does truth have to do with movies?
 So, what, it went into your other hand?
And so the dreamer awakens into the realms of reality. He has been given a rendition of the truth. He has been treated with respect.
Orson, that's all terribly interesting but what's all this about you and Dolores Del Rio? Do I hear love birds a'singin'?
Now, Orson, you know I'm just dyin' to see your picture and I know it's gonna be boffo, but you're writing about a publisher, right?
We're using-
You're not doin' Hearst, are you?
Good God no! The character is a delicious amalgamation of various press barons--
A delicious amalgamation, is it?
That's right. A symphony of those: vaunted and valued tellers-of-truth. Those heroic minutemen standing sentry on our liberties--
Orson, hold on. Look into my eyes. Tell me you are not doing Hearst.
I am not doing Hearst.
It's 350 pages long.
Yeah, but the margins are real wide.
It is 350 pages of ... ABSOLUTE INSPIRATION!
Housey, get us a drink.
I told you you could do this! How could you have ever doubted me!? You must never doubt me again!
It's good, huh?
Good?! Good?! Words fail you at last! It's terrific! Now I'll have to do some shaping, of course, and some of the scenes aren't exactly . . . exactly . . .
What?
Short enough. But this is a grand start And I think we need to change the name.
The title?
No, AMERICAN is a blessed title directly sent from God's soul to your mind. We shall never change that! I mean the name of the publisher. Charles Foster Craig doesn't have the knives-out poetry I need. I was thinking about "Kane" -- you like that?
Cain -- like the Bible guy?
K-A-N-E. One strong syllable. Kane I
Craig is one syllable
But it's not a great syllable
I --um-- I don't know if I should. I ain't been drinking since I started on this--
 To my invaluable comrade Drink up!
I'm out, aren't I?
Welcome to the world of Orson Welles.
YOU FUCK! YOU SELFISH FUCK!
Jesus Christ --
YOU CAN'T DO THIS TOME -- THIS WAS OUR STORY, REMEMBER? -- YOU AND ME AND GODDAMN EVERYONE ELSE - - REMEMBER THAT?!
Pal from the studio sent this -- you see that?! What does it say?! WHAT DOES IT SAY ORSON?!
Get away from me--
It says AMERICAN by Orson Welles. YOU TOOK MY NAME OFF THE FUCKING SCRIPT!
It's obviously a mistake, Manki Some steno girl made a mistake, alright?!
You can't do this to me--!
 I fucking well can! I own your script and I can do anything I goddamn want. And don't forget for one minute that I took your 350 pages of drunken rambling and I made a movie out of them -- and now I've got to shoot the bastard. So thank you very much, I have all I need. And you can stop calling me.
 I hope you choke on it. I hope it kills you.
This is supposed ta be Siam or some such. Some kinda lousy B-B-Balinese temple. This look like a temple to you? I can't see it myself--
 Darling, I talked to Millicent.
She said no
There. That's right.
She's a Catholic. She says it would put her soul in peril. Divorce is a very serious sin, apparently.
 Nuts. She only cares about the money. She thinks I'll make you cut her out of the w-w-w-w...  will.
I'm so sorry.
It's an awful title, of course, but I can't think of anything better. Someone came up with A SEA OF UPTURNED FACES -- which has a nice, grand ring to it -- and I thought of JOHN CITIZEN, USA but that strikes me as a bit Warner Brothers. Or, God forbid, Capraesque. I suppose AMERICAN will do for now but--
CITIZEN KANE
Pardon?
CITIZEN KANE There's your title.
A "Z" and a "K" in the title. That would draw the eye. For the poster. I like that THE PRISONER OF ZENDA had a "Z" and a "P" and that worked--
Now look, Orson, let's not get ahead of ourselves. The budget projections on this--
 I know, I know! But what more can you expect of me?! I have pared this story down to the marrow to save money but to cut more would be to--!
Listen, get off your horse with me. You know I've stuck by you since the beginning of time it seems like, while the stockholders in New York were ready to cut and run and everyone else in Hollywood was set to toss me in a rubber room. But your contract stipulates a max budget of 500 thousand. This one's gonna come in at 750 thousand. What do we do about that?
Now don't have a fit -- but I want you to think again about doing WAR OF THE WORLDS-
Jesus
Do WAR OF THE WORLDS as a feature and everyone's happy. You make some money and New York's happy and you have a track record and then we'll move on to KANE.
Please don't ask me to do this.
It's the safe bet, Orson. There's nothing wrong with that.
 George, I want you to let me make this movie because I need to make it. And I don't really know
It's your decision, George. If you look into my eyes right now and say, go make WAR OF THE WORLDS, I will. I'll make it. And, yes, it'll make you money.
If it'll get you the hell out of my office, go ahead and make the picture.
Say thank you, Orson.
For the title
 Ah, it's a grand title.
Like it would kill him to say thank you
ADMITTANCE.
Today we - -
Today we are going to break every rule in motion picture history...
Together we will throw away all the maps and we will become -joyously lost in the wilderness. And the future cartographers of Hollywood will forever chart our course. Following our lead...
And do you know why we're going to do this?
We're going to do this because it's going to be fun.
WELLES.
"Rosebud? I'll tell you about Rosebud.
Again.
"Rosebud? I'll tell you about Rosebud.
Again.
"Rosebud? I'll tell you about Rosebud.
Again
It needs a ceiling, Gregg. Real rooms have real ceilings.
You want a ceiling on this one too?
You bet.
Gonna be tough
 No, it's gonna be impossible. That's why we're doing it.
"Rosebud? I'll tell you about Rosebud."
Again
"Rosebud? I'll tell you about Rosebud
Again
Well, that didn't really work
It is the most important line of the picture. You will weave the magic of "Rosebud" in a single word - - you will say the word in such a way as to impart to us the mystery of it. It is a divine and sinister mystery worthy only of your talent. In this one word the movie soars or falls. Once more, I beg you.
 "Rosebud? I'll tell you about Rosebud."
 Print. ;'
Actors.
on GRAPES OF WRATH. He's a free- lance studio spy. Probably reports right back to the RKO boys in New York.
STOP EVERYBODY STOP!
YOU COME DOWN HERE!
Mr. Welles...?
GET OUT
"Charlie, you sure got the funniest ways of looking at things . "
No -- no -- I'll pour the tea. Sorry. I should pour the tea. Let's try that again.
Okay, here we go... Set. Action
"Charlie, you sure got the funniest ways of looking at things . "
No -- that's not right
Urn. . . ah . . . yes -- you should definitely pour the tea. Okay, again. Sorry.... Set. Action.
"Charlie, you sure got the funniest ways of looking at things . "
Orson, you wanna take five?
Five...? Yes. No. We're done today
I don't know if this means anything but I just talked to a guy in the RKO art department They've got all these books and crap all over the place. Pictures of San Simeon.
For the Welles picture.
Pictures of the castle?
Yeah
Thanks, doll. Get me more.
And I'm looking at them -- and they're all looking at me and I don't know who should pour the tea. '
Uh huh.
I just can't . . see it anymore
I want you back
Fuck you.  You wanted me out. I'm out.
I'm sorry.
I don't care.
This is the shooting script we've been using every day.
It's just like we always said it would be
Too late, kid.
Did I ever tell you about my father?
I don't give a shit about-
He was a drunk. And he was my father and I was ashamed of him.
He showed me the world, he took me with him everywhere -- Europe, China -- and he was so proud of me. But he would drink and he would get ...embarrassing. And I began to resent him Because I was so ... sparkling, you see.
When I finally saw him again, he was in a coffin. I was fifteen. And all of a sudden he wasn't that embarrassing drunk anymore ... he was the man who showed me the world.
Just like you, Mank.
So you've lost it? Don't know who should pour the tea.
Yeah
Orson ... just cut the goddamn tea
Okay
I been thinking about the beach scene. You done that yet?
Good -- cause I was thinking that we're starting the scene too late...
Cause if we don't show Susan watching Kane more then we're not building the right tension into the scene. See, she's gotta know that...
Closer ... closer ... closer -- stop. We just lost your head.
Can you see my shoes?
Yeah, but we lose your head.
Goddamn it Joe -- stand here
It's just not low enough. This is the scene. We have to look up at these two man as pillars soaring to the sky. As towering virtues in combat--
Spare me the aria, I know what you want--
I need my shoes in total focus right here and also Joe back there--!
I know what you want but it can't be done!
Take apart the fucking camera rig -- we could get a few more inches down and then tilt up--
Orson -- we can't get the fucking camera any fucking lower so find another fucking shot!
Come on, Gregg! We'll tear out this floor!
It's midnight, why don't we pick it up tomorrow?
Get me a jackhammer.
 There but for the grace of God, goes God.
Okay, Joe . . . come closer . . . closer
"Well, if you got drunk to talk to me about Miss Alexander, don't bother. I'm not interested. I've set back the sacred cause of reform, is that it? All right, if that's the way they want it, the people have made their choice. It's obvious the people prefer Jim Gettys to me."
"You talk about the people as if you owned them. As though they belonged to you. As long as I can remember, you've talked about--" (he breaks character) Orson, I am so goddamn tired--
 Keep filming.
I can't remember the lines!
Then make them up! You're drunk and you're angry.
This is the chance you've been waiting for, boy. Tell that son of a bitch just what you think of him!
We're not all hopped up on benzedrine, Orson I Some of us humans need sleep!
You're not going to get another chance, boy! Look right at the monster and you tell him--
 "You don't care about anything except you. You just want to persuade people that you
love them so much that they ought to love you back. Only you want love on your own terms. "
"A toast then, Jedediah, to love on my own terms. Those are the only terms anybody ever knows, his own."
Cut. Print
How 'bout a real drink?
We done?
Yeah.
 It's finished.
Good morning, good morning. . .
 Orson, Hedda here! You naughty boy! You told me that I would be positively the first human soul to see your masterpiece and here I read in the Reporter that there's a screening tonight for the magazines ... yes, advance deadlines, I understand . . . (she smiles) . . . oh, rough cut, uh-huh ... Been there, Orson, know the drill. See ya tonight!
Get offa me, ya little prick
This is an abomination There's no music and--
They've all seen a rough cut
The magazines are one thing -- but Hedda! Why did we have to let her come?!
When Hedda says "I'm coming" you mix a lot of martinis and you pray.
What the hell did that mean?!
 Why hello, Mr. Hearst! I'm so delighted you could take my call. I just wanted to let you know -- I saw this Orson Welles picture last night. First screening ever, don't cha know, and, Mr. Hearst, I don't understand something . . . (she smiles wickedly) ... I just don't understand why Louella hasn't told you it ' s all about you. . . Yes, oh yes . . . My pleasure, sir.
Take that, you old cow
 Here? As in right outside the door?
Yes, sir
 Well, send her in!
Shit
Schaefer, I gotta see this Welles picture
Louella, hello, I was just fixing a drink, would you like--?
 You drink at 10 am, do you?
No -- no -- I mean--
I wanna see the picture today
That might be a tad difficult because Orson is scoring the picture now and he's very particular about the music--
Cut the malarkey, buddy. The boss himself wants me to see the picture today.
He personally asked you to?
That's right
Hearst?
Uh-huh
I'll be back at noon. Set it up in screening room four.
Oh god
"You don't propose to have yourself made ridiculous I What about me?! I'm the one that's got to do the singing! I'm the one who gets the razzberries!"
It is . . . assassination.
It's all you. It has the political campaigns and the mining fortune and the war with Pulitzer and the castle. And ... Marion.
How so?
The jigsaw puzzles and the, urn, career -- the man spending a fortune to make her a star -- only it's opera and not movies. And...
Yes?
 The drinking.
 So my life is a subject for mockery. All of it. Every detail. Every personal detail.
Thank you for your time
Thank you, sir. She begins to leave
Miss Parsons, I have one additional question for you.
Sir? 
Why did we not know about this sooner?
Sir?
I pay you a good deal of money to be my eyes and ears in Hollywood, do I not? If you cannot provide this simple service you are of no use to me.
Sir, I-
 Please be quiet.
He lied to me
He looked into my face and told me it wasn't about you.
And how do you feel when you are lied to?
I want blood
Good. Retain that feeling. Let it nourish you from this day forth. It shall nourish us both
Give me one dinner with her and I'll sort it out. Woman of a certain age are woefully susceptible to a younger man's charm. I'll make myself so monumentally attractive that
 Oh Christ...
This is the morning edition of the EXAMINER.
And this is the evening edition. Notice anything?
The ad..
They dumped our ad.
 They dumped all our ads.
Louis
Randolph!
Hope you don't mind my popping in--
 What a wretched place this is. I can't come to town without feeling filthy. You really must buy that parcel of land by the castle and come north.
Quite. And this is why I came to visit. Have you heard about this CITIZEN KANE picture?
Over at RKO?
Mm. Not a very good picture I am told.
 Uh-hub.
Apparently it details the exploits of a publisher like myself. Entirely too much like myself. Do you follow so far?
Yeah
I can't see how the release of that picture will do anyone any good, really.
Say, while I'm in town why don't we play 18 holes at Bel Air? Or maybe just nine. Do you have time for a round today?
And maybe we could get Mr. Warner and Mr. Goldwyn and Mr. Cohn and Mr. Selznick to play as well.
 You know that can't happen.
Oh, why is that?
Why is that, Louis?
Bel Air is restricted.
Oh, that's right. How silly of me to have forgotten. I sometimes forget that you're all Jews. Lots of people forget that. If they ever knew it.
See what you can do about this CITIZEN KANE picture, won't you?
 Yeah
And you'll come out to the castle soon, I hope Marion and I would love to see more of you.
That's right, fella, no Hearst paper will run an RKO ad until you agree that CITIZEN KANE will never see the light of day.
Louella, please, be reasonable, I understand you have problems with Orson's picture but maybe we can work something out--
Nix, sweetie. You shelve it
Oh for God's sake, Louella-
And Mr. Hearst has authorized me to tell you that you're looking at the most beautiful lawsuit in history if you release this picture. He'll bleed your little studio dry and you can all go on back to New York and do Shakespeare with the Boy Wonder.
Can I talk to Hearst?
You are talking to him.
The Journal was pretty harsh to Roosevelt today.
You oughta lay off him -- he is the p-p-president, after all.
He is a Bolshevik. He will have us at war by the end of the year. I think I'm going to run that wheelchair picture.
Don't
Whaddaya think?
Sir, we got the call.
Thank you, Joseph.
How bad is it?
Nothing for you to worry about, darling
Pops
The S.E.C. has turned down my request for relief on the debts.
How much?
It's not really--
How much?
125 million.
 We're 125 million dollars in debt?
Yes.
How does one get 125 million dollars in debt?
One . . . buys things.
We open on Monument Valley. Those towering stalagmites reaching up like pleading fingers to God. A single figure treads the arid plains. The crimson sun is behind him so his shadow stretches toward us. He is a simple man wearing a simple robe. A profoundly quiet and sad man. Who is he?
Orson, please..
 Who is he, Gregg?
 Oh, no--
Yes!
He's Christ?
I'm Christ
You want to do the life of Jesus?
Yes! Vibrant and modern and stark like a Picasso sketch drawn to flashes of lightning I We shoot the whole thing in the gallant American West--
Hey, kid. Gregg.
Mank, sit down. You missed the opening of the new picture but I'll go back--
No, you gotta hear this-
 I'm trying to work here!
Sorry, you keep at it, old boy.
You read Louella?
No, but I can imagine. What am I today? A "puny upstart" or a "spoiled dilettante" -- no, she wouldn't know how to spell that
 "And how is the country to feel when this industry continues to employ bedraggled foreigners and swarthy refugees instead of real Americans? Doesn't Hollywood know there's a Depression on? Don't real Americans deserve work?"
 Well, at least she's off KANE today
No she's not. Don't you get it, ya lunk? She's using code language to the studio bosses. "Bedraggled foreigners and swarthy refugees" -- who the hell do you think she's talking about?
 Hedy Lamarr?
Jews. She's talking about Jews.
Who owns this town? Who runs every goddamn studio? The tribe, baby. These fuckers hear the word "Jew" and they start sweating. Like Ester Williams' pool they start sweating.
 So they're Jews. . .
This is just the first shot. Maestro. Sooner or later she's gonna use the word. And all those boys know that there is only one thing this country hates more than the coloreds and that's the Jews.
Christ.
Me, I'm proud to be a Jew, I got no problem. You don't like it, fuck you. But with these guys it's like a dirty word. All they wanna be is good red- white-and-blue Americans, and the way they see it you can't be a good American and a Jew. So Sam Goldfish becomes Sam Goldwyn and David Selznick becomes David 0. Selznick -- like anyone's gonna think he's Irish for fuck's sake--
What does this have to do with--?
 Believe you me, they're gonna do anything -- and I mean absolutely anything -- to stop that word from gettin' out.
 What?! Are they going to kill me? Is that what they're going to do?!
 Let me tell you a story, son  So this was 1924, right? Hearst was throwing a birthday party for Thomas Ince, the old movie producer. They were all on the old man's yacht taking a nice jaunt from Pedro down to San Diego. Real foggy night it was. This was Hearst, Marion, Ince, Charlie Chaplin, Louella, the usual gorillas. So Hearst notices Marion slip off with Chaplin -- she was screwing everyone then -- and the old man goes nuts. Grabs his revolver and starts shooting. Just like Tom Mix, standing there blasting away through the fog. Boom - - boom -- boom -- and Thomas Ince takes a bullet through the head. So now there's this dead guy lying on the deck. You'll see how this could be quite an embarrassment. So the empire goes into action. Nice and quiet and Ince was cremated lickety-split. No inquest and no police. It was right after this that Hearst gives Louella her life-time contract. Just to keep her all hush-hush.
If he had known about KANE before you made it, you'd be dead already.
 It's too late. The movie's made
They won't let it out. Not Hearst. Not the other studio heads--
You wrote the damn thing, Mank Aren't you going to fight for it?!
 I told you this was going to happen! I told you he was going to come after us! So we took the chance anyway and we lost. That's how it goes, okay? I got my check, kid, and so did you -- and that's what it's all about -- so fuck it and move on.
I WILL NOT MOVE ON! Let them do their worst! These petty tyrants! These monstrous, small men Do they think they can stop us? I Who are they?! Who are they?! THEY ARE . .. ACCOUNTANTS I
We're ready. You want to hear it?
His next picture ... he wants to play Christ.
Hope he's planning to start with the crucifixion.
"Throw that junk in, too.
Switch it off SWITCH IT OFF
 Would everyone please leave
Well -- he got us, didn't he? She stands and goes quickly to pour a drink. A forced laugh
Nailed us, hub? The crazy old man and his whore.
Marion--
Bought and p-p-paid for. Just like one of his goddamn statues. Well at least in the movie he married her!
This picture--
 I am not that woman.
 I mean he's even got the goddamn jigsaw puzzles
Why did he do that to us?
And now of all times -- NOW -- when I am grasping on with my fingernails to live at all this Orson We lies -- this insect -- this reprehensible insect -- has the nerve TO CHALLENGE ME! To show my life as some cheap sideshow -- A FREAK SHOW -- A DYING, IMPOTENT OLD FREAK IN HIS CASTLE!
 Mr. Willicombe -- you have seen me in adversity -- you have seen me take on the unions and the Congress and the railroads -- and we have risen above -- we have risen above. And if that dog Welles thinks he can strike at me now -- when he thinks I'm weak when he thinks I'm vulnerable -- then he does not fully comprehend the man is facing.
we're--
Get me Louella Parsons, now!
This upstart -- this puny man -- how does he even dare to imagine he could comprehend my life and my world when he crawls with the other insects in the sewer -- in the dung -- when we control every moment of his life from the instant he is born to the instant we decide that he will die! Does he have no idea of the power that controls him?!
Mr. Hearst, I have Miss Par'
 Miss Parsons, Mr. Hearst. Use the file
Now get me J. Edgar Hoover
Then wake him up!
 That insect thinks he knows me! He thinks he knows my capabilities! When his neck is in my teeth and his blood is in my throat then he will know WILLIAM RANDOLPH HEARST!
So what do we got here, L.B.? We got faggots and commies and junkies. We got movie stars screwing niggers and little girls. We got killers and perverts and whores.
We got MGM and Warner Brothers and Columbia and Disney and Fox.
We got Jews
We got Hollywood.
 What do you want?
Kill CITIZEN KANE.
How?
I don't give a shit.
The boss is working on some stuff and I'm working on some stuff. Now I want all you boys working on some stuff. Cause if it looks like this picture's ever gonna come out -- I start running down the street with these pictures like a screaming woman with my throat cut, you follow?
Agent McCabe, if you please.
Open a new file. Heading: Welles, Orson. Native born. Communist.
How bad is it?
Miss Davies--
Come on Joe. How bad is it?
It's finished
I've been thinking about the Tribune in Chicago. The Examiner just can't make any headway. Circulation is still down. I think we should buy the Tribune.
Sure, Pops. That's a swell idea
... and Rita Hayworth says: "You see, he truly was the Son of God" ... big Toland lighting effect ... blah, blah, blah ...
Mr. Mankiewicz, I'm Special Agent McCabe of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Might I have a moment of your time?
Sure, kid, come in. I'm writing the crucifixion and it's a bitch. Sit down
I would like to ask you a few questions about Mr. Welles.
You guys after Orson too?
Mr. Mankiewicz.
Shoot
Are you aware of Mr. Welles' Communist affiliations?
Shit, Orson's no pink. He's everything else under the sun, but he's no pink.
Are you aware of Mr. Welles' Communist affiliations?
No, I am not
Do you have any knowledge of Communists working within the motion picture industry?
Do you have any knowledge of Communists working within the motion picture industry?
No
Are you now or have you ever been a member of, or affiliated with, the Communist Party or any of its front organizations in the United States?
Stop it
Are you now or have you ever been a member of--
I think you better leave
Are you now or have you--
 Get the fuck outta my house.
 Thank you for your time, Mr. Mankiewicz. We'll be in touch.
 Don't bother, you low-life prick
Then you explain it to me?!
There's nothing to explain
A million dollars a year on art and st-st-statues and there's nothing to explain?!
I will not defend my life to you--
I'm not asking you to defend anything. But we're in a pickle and we gotta talk about it.
We are in no "pickle" -- as you would euphemistically have it.
You gotta wake up now. Pops.
There is nothing to discuss-
You don't have any money left, okay?! That's the truth. I don't wanna say it, nobody else will say it, but it's the truth. You spent it all. You can't buy the Tribune in Chicago -- you can't buy ^ g-g- goddamn thing. Now you better face up to it--
You are being typically theatrical, Marion. I need the Tribune to--
You don't need it! That's the problem you always think you need everything--
That -- did you need that? How much did that cost?
It's 12th Century. From Deauville -- in France.
I know where Deauville is for C-C-Christ's sake.
You needn't use that language with me
Did you need it? Did you need any of it?
I wanted it
There's a different between want and
 Not for me.
 But why? Just so you can show it all off -- just so everyone can see what a b-b-big man you are?!
 That's right. You've captured me exactly. Goodnight.
You will not walk out on me
You are repellant when you drink.
Tough shit. We need to t-t-talk about this--
You are slovenly and unattractive and I won't (he mercilessly mimics her) t-t-t-tolerate it.
Fuck you, Mr. Kane.
 I will not have this in my home.
I just want to understand--
 No, you don't. You want to condemn me, like everyone else. You want to point to the pathetic, old man grown lunatic with his spending -- trapped in his ridiculous
castle -- still fighting old battles he will never win with Pulitzer and Roosevelt and Hollywood--
I don't want you to--
There is nothing to understand but this:   I am a man who could have been great, but was not.
When I met him I was just 20. And he was 55. I saw the gold ring and just grabbed on. And he was going to make me a star.
And he did.
When I was making movies I kept begging him to let me do comedies. Silly stuff, you know. But Pops doesn't get comedy too well so he kept putting me in all those godawful p-p-period dramas.
I did my best but, well, you know me
Sure
Thing that bothers me now, though, looking back is that I really think I could have been something ... special.
Thinking like that is only gonna drive you nuts You were a great star and you had a good run. That oughta be enough.
Yeah. But all of a sudden it's not
You know this CITIZEN KANE picture? About Pops and everything?
Uh-huh
The character that's supposed to be me, Susan Alexander--
Marion, everyone knows you're not like that--
But I am That's the killer, honey.
It's hell when you gotta look back and say, goddamn, what I could have been.
May I help you?
I, um, need an estimate on some jewelry I might wish to sell. But d-d-discretion is very important to me b-b-because I don't want anyone t-t-to, um, know that--
Excuse me, I hope this isn't rude, but aren't you Marion Davies?
Yes.
Well, this is a great pleasure. Miss Davies! I just saw that ENCHANTMENT is playing at a the Tivoli, the revival house in Santa Monica. That was a fine picture!
Thank you-
Not one of them today has what you had, Miss Davies. Not one of them.
Thank you -- b-b-but I'd really like t-t-to--
Of course, of course. How can we be of service?
As I said I have some j-j-j-j- (she simply can't get the word out) that I might wish t-t-to sell and I wanted an estimate--
Surely My pleasure, Miss Davies..
 My Lord. . .
How much for the lot?
What do you want me to do, Orson? Radio City won't premiere the picture. Louella threatened them with some bullshit about
Then find another theater
You don't think I've tried? No one is willing to open the picture
Then we'll open it in Detroit or Dallas or Kalamazoo for God's sake! We'll show it in goddamn circus tents and--!
Listen to me. The press ban is killing us and the distributors won't book it. And meantime I'm dealing with the stockholders in New York who are scared shitless -- and I'm this far from getting fired myself -- and you don't have a friend in the world but me right now. So you have got to trust that I'll do what I can to--
 "Do what you can"?! That's not good enough I
Well it' s all you've got !
 You're with them, aren't you? You're going to bury my movie. They bought you!
 For Christ's sake, shut up--
Why don't you just have the guts to admit it
 How dare you talk to me like that! Do you think I'm like all the rest of those pirates?! Like Mayer and Warner? Is that what you think--?!
It's just that my movie is so-
 "Your movie" -- I am so sick of that! It's your movie -- but it's his life! Did you ever think about that?! Did you ever think about that old man and Marion having to watch as you tore them apart?!
Do you every think for one second that you might have some responsibility for what you're doing?! For cutting and slashing everything in your way so you can have your goddamn movie?!
That soulless monster gets no tears from me.
Who the fuck are you trying to kid? You are that soulless monster.
Recognize
It's Tara. From GONE WITH THE WIND
It's ... sad
Not really. It's only a set, after all Just lumber.
 You know, we make all these pictures, we turn em out one after another, without thinking most of the time. Just like making toasters or Packards or toothpaste. But then sometimes ... something amazing happens and you get a GONE WITH THE WIND.
And no one can ever take that away from you.
... and in financial news, rumors continue to swirl around the head of publishing baron William Randolph Hearst. . .
... Sources report that the Hearst Empire is facing some rocky times ahead as the press lord is facing mounting debts and shrinking revenues due to over expansion and fiscal mismanagement that have resulted in...
I started out as a gold-digger, ya know But goddamn if I didn't fall in love with the guy.
Mr. Zanuck ... Mr. Warner ... Mr. Cohn Mr. Disney .. . Mr. Goldwyn . . . Mr. Selznick.
He's a fucking punk, why does Hearst give a shit?
It's enough that he does
Would Louella really do it?
In a New York minute
We all didn't make GONE WITH THE WIND, ya know. Some of us gotta look at this checkbook-wise.
Who isn't hurting already? All this Jew talk and these Communist rumors. Look, he's boycotting RKO ads right now -- but how long before he takes on Warners or Fox or Columbia?
Goddamn right.
And if Hearst goes public with all this filthy private lives stuff, Hollywood's sunk. He's got us nailed. Dates. Times. Photographs for God's sake.
I don't mean to be funny, but what could he have on Mickey Mouse?
He's got you so tied in with J. Edgar Hoover and America First that you might as well put on a brown shirt and kiss those happy little kiddies so-long.
Who the fuck cares?
Get off the soapbox--
David-
 Your son-in-law meshuaena.
 He's got me and Hoover?
Relax, Walt, at least he don't have you screwing Snow White. I got fucking Errol Flynn on my payroll!
 You're a smart man, L.B. I suspect you would not have called us here without a plan. Give over.
We will buy the movie and we will destroy it.
We will assemble a fund between us -- privately, 'not studio money -- we will assemble this fund and we will go to George Schaefer and we will buy the negative and every print of CITIZEN KANE and we will burn them.
If I do not hear an objection to this agenda in the next five seconds I will assume the motion has carried.
Very well, my associates will be in touch to arrange payment. Thank you for your time.
 Mr. Hearst spent his life collecting that art.
 We've been in touch with Gimbels in New York and they've agreed to hold a special sale. They're giving over an entire floor for the merchandise. You'll have to go there in person to sign the bill of sale, by the way.
 I'll have to sell the animals.
And we don't know whether we'll be able to retain the castle. The land has some capital and we might keep it on as an investment. Maybe break it up into smaller units for housing.
 When will it come out? When will the public know?
We can't keep it a secret, sir. Once we announce the Gimbels sale and start liquidating the assets.
 This is your whole life. Pops. Don't do it. We'll find another way..
Next up we have a real treat. It's Orson Welles. Now, during the rehearsal for the benefit tonight Orson banished everyone from the club so he could proceed in utmost secrecy. But you all know how Orson is!
So, lets give a big round of applause for Mr. Orson Welles and Miss Rita Hayworth.
"I'll buy everything I wear at Saks. I'll print gossip and I'll call it facts
"Swear like a trooper, Live in a stupor--
"I'll make money and I'll make it quick, Starting little wars I think are slick. Smother her in sables, Like Betty Grable's-- Just disgustingly rich.  "I'll build a castle, That'll cost a passel. And as a resident, I will pan the president I'll aspire, Higher and Higher. "I'll get married and I'll buy a girl, So darn pretty that your head will swirl
"Swimming in highballs-- Stewed to the eyeballs--
 He truly doesn't care if he ever works again.
Yeah, ain't it swell?
"Ev'ry summer I will sail the sea, On my little yacht the Normandie, Pet my little dachshund friends, Kiss Louella's big rear end, Just disgustingly rich.
"He'll be photographed with Myrna Loy, Just to prove he is a glamour boy.
"Perfumed and scented, Slightly demented-- Just disgustingly rich
"I'll get my capers, Into his papers. Hoping his folly would Lead me out to Hollywood. I'll aspire, Higher and higher.
 George- -!
 This isn' t some kinda fucking game! You know how many people RKO employs?! You know how many people depend on what we do for a living?!
I really think you're
You wanna commit suicide, fine! You got some death- wish, fine! But you will not drag this company down with you!
It was a -joke, George
There are no jokes! There are people making a living. There is food on the table!
Where did this money come from?
It came.
800,000 dollars fully covers the production budget and a little more. Hell, George, you even make a profit on the deal.
Very generous
And we gotta be clear here. I need the negative and every existing print.
To do what?
That's for me to decide.
You're going to destroy it
No, maybe put it on the shelf until the old man kicks it.
You're lying to me.
We already made the same offer to the stockholders.
You talked to New York?
Yes
You talked to Mr. Swanbeck?
Yes
Get out
You're bettin' on an inside straight this time. You'll never pull it off.
Get out.
This picture, George, it'll just break your heart.
"I've flown around the world in a plane, I've settled revolutions in Spain, And the North Pole I have charted, Still I can't get started with you...
"On the golf course I'm under par, Metro Goldwyn has asked me to star, I've got a house, a show place, Still I can't get no place with you.
"Cause you're so supreme, Lyrics I write of you, I dream, dream day and night of you And I scheme just for the sight of you, Baby, what good does it do...?
"I've been consulted by Franklin D. Greta Garbo has had me to tea, Still I'm broken hearted Cause I can't get started with you.
 Ah, Miss Davies, the times we have seen
See, this is the Great Salt Lake -- we do the baptism here.
Great scene where John the Baptist pulls your head
Is that from one of the Gospels?
Kinda.
George! Enter And Behold
You're not still mad at me, I hope
No, we're jake. But listen-
Look, not a single scene shot in the studio! We've found natural locations for the whole story--
Hold on a sec. I got news. We finally found somewhere to premiere KANE but--
I told you! Where? Grauman's? El Capitan? Or did Radio City come crawling back?
The Palace in New York. But Orson there's something else.
I think you better sit down
 I don't want to sit
The bosses -- the other studios -- they want to buy the film and destroy it.
They came to me with an offer. 800,000 for the negative and all the prints.
And they went to the stockholders in New York.
 Oh God.
I been talking to Swanbeck in New York and... Orson, I think they're gonna take it A long pause as Welles looks at Schaefer
YOU STUPID, LITTLE MAN! HOW COULD YOU HAVE LET THIS HAPPEN?! I GAVE YOU MY SOUL AND NOW YOU'RE GOING TO SELL IT!?
This ain't George's doing--!
I PUT MY LIFE INTO THAT PICTURE -- EVERYTHING I'VE BEEN -- EVERYTHING I COULD BE---IT'S CITIZEN KANE! - - IT'S ALL CITIZEN KANE!
Let . . . me . . . talk to them. . .
Old man Hearst owned this and I'm getting it for two bits I
WILLIAM RANDOLPH HEARST. PUBLISHER."
I can't sell this. How much are they asking?
 Pops ... let it go. Just ... let it go
Yes, I think I shall.
Six of spades
Six of spades
Today.
Today a man from Germany invaded Greece. He has already swallowed Poland and Denmark and Norway and Belgium. He is bombing London as I speak. Everywhere this man goes he crushes the life and the freedom of his subjects. He sews yellow stars onto their lapels. He takes their voices.
We open on May 1st.
Orson, what you said in there. Did you mean it?
Does it matter? They believed it
Orson.
Yes. It matters.
Mr. Hearst, we've met once before, my name is Orson Welles and I've got a movie opening tomorrow night at the Palace. I would be pleased to get you tickets.
I wonder. Do you have any idea what you have done?
Do you?
Intimately. For every sin you have placed on my head I could give you a hundred others. I have been swimming in blood my entire life. But I retain a belief, perhaps you will think it old fashioned, undoubtedly you will, but I believe that private lives should not be public property.
Elegant words, sir, when you have made your name and your fortune on slander and innuendo and gossip. In your papers you taught the world how to look under every rock. I learned at the knee of the master.
So where does that leave us, Mr. Welles? What kind of sad future are we two making? A future where men will do anything to sell their newspapers and their movies? A future where no price is too high for fame and power? When we will all scratch each other to pieces just to be heard?
CHARLES FOSTER KANE WOULD HAVE ACCEPTED I
They're cutting us dead, every goddamn one.
It's my birthday this week. I'll be 26.
Happy birthday.
Monstro! Ran into Walter Winchell outside He wants to play Herod in the picture. Hiya, George.
Herman.
 So ain't this just the bee's knees? The high muckey-mucks dolled up all Aztec-like for the human sacrifice.
You gonna watch?
Hell, I know how it ends.  Hey, Rosebud's the sled!
Mank!
Face it, Orson, they're gonna hate it. I told you, not enough closeups and too many scenes with a bunch of New York actors.
 Oh God. . .
Relax, George. It's gonna go great. Trust me. Have I ever lied to you?
You know something, Orson, you haven't done anything but lie to me from the moment we met. But, ya know, I'd do it again in a second.
It was fun, wasn't it?
 It was the best, kid
So, on to the Life Of Christ!
Without me. I'm afraid. I got the axe this morning.
Shit
George...
Forget it. Cause you know something..
 What have I done?
Aw, cheer up, George'll probably be running Fox by the morning. Let's get a drink.
But the picture...
 Kid, you know how it ends too. It ends sadly.
"Rosebud...
You know, all this nightmare we went through with Hearst. The whole thing... And in the end, probably no one will ever remember the picture anyway.
Yeah, you're probably right.
I'll tell ya something, kid. When you make your masterpiece at 26 it's a bitch. I mean. where do you go from here?
Will burn. Burn up. Burn out.  But oh, what a flame
Cheers.
