ROCKY HORROR PICTURE SHOW
Michael Rennie was ill. The day the earth stood still But he told us where we stand
And Flash Gordon was there In silver underwear.
Claude Rains was the invisible man.
Then something went wrong For Fay Wray and King Kong They got caught in a celluloid jam
Then at a deadly pace It came from outer space And this is how the message ran
Science Fiction - double-feature Dr X will build a creature See Androids fighting Brad and Janet Anne Francis stars in Forbidden Planet Oh - at the late night, double-feature Picture Show.
I knew Leo G. Carrol Was over a barrel When tarantula took to the hills
And I really got hot When I saw Jeanette Scott Fight a Triffid that spits poison and kills
Dana Andrews said prunes Gave him the runes And passing them used lots of skills.
And when worlds collide Said George Pal to his bride I'm going to give you some terrible trills Like a -
Science Fiction - double-feature Dr X will build a creature See Androids fighting Brad and Janet Anne Francis stars in Forbidden Planet Oh - at the late-night, double-feature Picture Show By RKO O- Oh At the late-night, double-feature Picture Show In the back row At the late-night, double-feature Picture Show I want to go.
To the late night double feature Picture Show.
Well Brad, I guess we made it huh!
Well I don't think there was any doubt about that - You and Betty have been almost inseparable ever since you sat in on Dr Scott's refresher lectures.
Tell you the truth Brad, she was the only reason I came in the first place. Science was never one of my favourite subjects but I sure with Dr Scott could have made it today.
Yes, Janet and I are both fond of him. We drove over to see him last vacation. It's a shame his new job took him away from Denton.
Hey fella.  It looks like it could be your turn next.
Who knows...ha ha.
Oh Brad, wasn't it wonderful. Didn't Betty look radiantly beautiful. Just an hour ago she was plain old Betty Monroe.  Now she's Mrs. Ralph Hapschatt.
Er...yes, Janet.......Ralph's a lucky guy.
Yes.
Everyone knows Betty's a wonderful little cook.
Yes.
And Ralph himself will be in line for promotion in a year or so.
Yes.
Hey Janet.
Yes Brad.
I've got something to say.
Uh huh.
I really loved the skilful way You beat the other girls To the bride's bouquet.
Oh Brad.
The river was deep but I swam it.
Janet.
The future is ours so let's plan it.
Janet.
So please don't tell me to can it.
Janet.
I've one thing to say and that's Dammit, Janet. I love you.
Janet.
There's a fire in my heart And you fan it.
Janet.
If there's one fool for you Then I am it.
Janet.
I've one thing to say and that's, Dammit, Janet.
I love you.
Here's a ring to prove that I'm not joker.
There's three ways that love can grow. That's good bad or mediocre.
Oh - J - A - N - E - T I love you so.
Oh!......It's nicer than Betty Munroe had
Oh Brad.
Now we're engaged and I'm so glad.
That you met Mom And you know Dad.
Oh Brad.
I've one thing to say And that's, Brad I'm mad, For you too.
Oh, Brad.
Oh Dammit.
I'm mad.....
Oh Janet
For you.
I love you too-oo-oo.
And that's go see the man Who began it
Janet.
When we met in his science exam It -
Janet.
Made me give you the eye And then panic,
Janet
I've got one thing to say, and that's Dammit, Janet.
Dammit, Janet.
Oh Brad, I'm mad.
Dammit, Janet.
I would like if I may to take you on a strange journey.
It seemed a fairly ordinary night when Brad Majors and his fiancee Janet Weiss left Denton that late November evening to visit Dr Everett Scott, ex. tutor and now friend of both of them.  It's true there were dark storm clouds, heavy, black and pendulous, toward which they were driving.  It's true also that the spare tyre they were carrying was badly in need of some air.  But they being normal kids and on a night out, well they were not going to let a storm spoil the events of their evening.
It was a night out they were going to remember for a very long time.
Gosh.  That's the third motorcyclist that's passed us.  They certainly take their lives in their hands.  What with the weather and all.
Yes, Janet.  Life's pretty cheap to that type.
What's the matter Brad, darling?
I think we took the wrong fork a few miles back.
Oh dear!  But then where did the motorcyclists come from?
Hmmm ... Well, I guess we will have to turn back.
What was that bang?
We must have a blow-out.
Oh...
You'd better sit here and keep warm while I go for help.
But where will you go?  We're in the middle of nowhere.
Didn't we pass a castle back down the road a few miles?  Maybe they have a telephone I might use.
I'm coming with you.
There's no point both of us getting wet.
I'm coming with you.  Besides, darling, the owner of the phone might be a beautiful woman and you may never come back.
In the velvet darkness Of the blackest night Burning bright.
There's a guiding star No matter what or who you are.
Over at the Frankenstein place.
There's a light.
Burning in the fireplace.
 There's a light, a light In the darkness of everybody's life
I can see the flag fly I can see the rain Just the same There has got to be Something better here For you and me.
Burning in the fireplace.
There's a light.
A light In the darkness of everybody's life.
The darkness must go Down the river of nights dreaming Flow morphia slow Let the sun and light come streaming Into my life.
Into my life.
Over at the Frankenstein place.
Burning in the fireplace.
There's a light, a light.
And so it seemed that fortune had smiled on Brad and Janet and that they had found the assistance that their plight required - or had they?
Oh, Brad.  Let's go back.  I'm cold and I'm frightened.
Just a moment, Janet.  They may have a telephone.
Hello.
Uh - oh - Hi!  My name is Brad Majors. And this is my fiancee, Janet Weiss.  I - ah - wondered if you could help us.  Our car has broken down about two miles up the road.  Do you have a phone we might use?
You're wet.
Yes, the rain has been very heavy.
Yes.
Yes.
I think you had better both come inside.
You're too kind.
 Oh Brad, I'm frightened.  What kind of place is this?
 Oh, it's probably some kind of hunting lodge for rich weirdos.
This way.
Are you - giving a party?
No.  You've arrived on a rather special night.  It's one of the master's affairs.
Oh, lucky him.
He's lucky.
You're lucky, I'm lucky, we're all lucky.
It's astounding Time is fleeting Madness takes its toll But listen closely Not for very much longer I've got to keep control.
I remember doing the Time Warp.
Drinking those moments when The blackness would hit me.
And the void would be calling.
Let's do the Time Warp again.
 Let's do the Time Warp again.
It's just a jump to the left.
 And a step to the right - right - right - right - right.
With your hands on your hips.
You bring your knees in tight. But it's the pelvic thrust.
They really drive you insane.
Let's do the Time Warp again.
Let's do the Time Warp again.
It's so dreamy Oh, fantasy free me So you can't see me No not at all.
Let's do the Time Warp again.
Let's do the Time Warp again.
Well I was walking down the street Just having a think When a snake of a guy Gave me an evil wink. Well it shook me up It took me by surprise He had a pick-up truck And the devil's eyes He stared at me And I felt a change Time meant nothing Never would again.
Let's do the Time Warp again.
Let's do the Time Warp again.
It's just a jump to the left.
And then a step to the right.
With your hands on your hips.
You bring your knees in tight.
Oh....Say something.
Say!  Do any of you guys know the Madison?
Brad, please lets get out of here.
For God's sake keep a grip on yourself Janet.
But it seems so unhealthy here.
It's just a..a party Janet.
Well I want to leave.
We can't go anywhere until I get to a phone.
Then ask the butler - or someone.
Let's wait awhile Janet.  We don't want to interfere with their celebrations.
This isn't the Junior Chamber of Commerce Brad.
They're probably foreigners with ways different from our own.  -  They may do some more folk dancing.
Brad - I'm cold, I'm wet, and plain scared.
I'm here, there's nothing to worry about.
How do you do.
Don't get strung out by the way that I look.
Don't judge a book by its cover I'm not much of a man By the light of day But by night I'm one hell of a lover.
I'm just a sweet Transvestite From Transexual Transylvania.
I'm glad we caught you at home Ah - could we use your phone We're both in a bit of a hurry.
Right!
We'll just say where we are Then go back to the car We don't want to be any worry.
You got caught with a flat Well how about that Well babies don't you panic By the light of the night It'll seem alright I'll get you a satanic mechanic.
I'm just a sweet transvestite From Transexual Transylvania.
Why dont'cha stay for the night
I'm just a sweet transvestite From Transexual Transylvania.
"Sweet Transvestite"
From Transexual Transylvania.
"Transylvania"
So come up to the Lab.
And see what's on the slab.
I see you shiver with anticipation
But maybe the rain
Is really to blame
So I'll remove the cause But not the symptom
Slowly, slowly.  It's too nice a job to rush.
Oh Brad.
 It's alright Janet, we'll play along for now and pull out the aces when the time is right.
Ah, hi.  My name is Brad Majors and this is my fiancee, Janet Weiss.  You are ...
You are very lucky to be invited up to Frank's laboratory.  Some people would give their right arm for the privilege.
People like you maybe
I've seen it.
 It he - Frank - is he your husband?
The Master is not yet married.  Nor do I think he ever will be.  We are simply his servants.
Oh.
Magenta, Columbia, go and assist Riff Raff.
I will entertain...ah...
I'm Brad Majors and this is my fiancee, Janet Vice.
Weiss.
Weiss.
Encante....How nice. And what charming underclothes you both have. (He takes two dust coats from Riff Raff and hands them to Brad). But here, put these on.  They'll make you feel less vulnerable.
It's not often we receive visitors here. Let alone offer them hospitality.
Hospitality!  All we wanted to do was use your telephone.  A reasonable request which you have chosen to ignore.
Don't be ungrateful Brad.
Ungrateful!
How forceful you are Brad.  Such a perfect specimen of manhood.  So dominant.
Well, yes I am.
Do you have any tattoos Brad.
Certainly not!
Oh well.  How about you.
Everything is in readiness, Master. We merely await your word.
Tonight...One, one, one.  Can you hear me at the back? Tonight, my unconventional conventionists.
Tonight you are to witness a breakthrough in biochemical research.
And paradise is to be mine.
It was strange the way it happened. One of those quirks of fate really. One of those moments when you seem irredeemably lost:  you panic; you're trapped; your back's against the wall. There's no way out, and then suddenly, you get a break.  (He cracks the bones in his hand)  All the pieces seem to fit into place.  What a sucker you'r been. What a fool.  The answer was there all the time.  It took a small accident to make it happen.  An accident!
That's how I discovered the secret. That elusive ingredient, that spark that is the breath of life.
You see, Brad and Janet, you are fortunate. For tonight is the night that my beautiful creature is destined to be born.
Throw open the switches on the sonic oscillator.
And step up the reactor power input three more points.
Brad...
It's alright Janet.
The Sword of Damocles is Hanging over my head.
And I've got the feeling Someone's going to be Cutting the thread.
I woke up this morning With a start When I fell out of bed.
That ain't no crime.
And left from my dreaming Was a feeling Of un-nameable dread.
That ain't no crime
My high is low. I'm dressed up With no place to go.
Sha la la la That ain't no crime.
Oh, no no, no no.
Sha la la la That ain't no crime.
No no no, no no.
Sha la la la That ain't no crime - That ain't no crime.
Rocky needed peace of mind. He didn't know He was doing just fine.
That ain't no crime.
The sword of Damocles is Hanging over my head.
That ain't no crime.
And I've got the feeling Someone's going to be Cutting the thread.
That ain't no crime.
Oh, woe is me - My life is a mystery.
Sha la la la That ain't no crime.
Oh no no no no.
Sha la la la That ain't no crime.
No no no no.
Sha la la la That ain't no crime. That ain't no crime.
Sha la la la That ain't no crime.
No no no no.
Sha la la la That ain't no crime.
No no no no.
Sha la la la That ain't no crime - That ain't no crime.
Well.  That's no way to behave on your first day out.
He is a credit to your genius, Master.
Yes.
A triumph of your vill.
Yes.
He's o.k.
O.K?  (Moving out behind tank towards Janet and Brad)  I think we can do a little better than that.
Well.    I don't like men with...er, with too many, muscles.
I didn't make him for you
A weakling weighing Ninety eight pounds Will get sand in his face When kicked to the ground. And soon in the gym With a determined chin The sweat from his pores As he works for his ca-ha-hause
Will make him glisten - thank you - And gleam. And with massage And just a little bit of Ste-he-he-he-hem... He'll be pink. And quite clean.
He'll be a strong man - Oh honey -
He'll eat nutritious high protein And swallow raw eggs. Try to build up his shoulders, His chest, arms and legs.
He'll do press-ups and chin-ups, Do the snatch, clean and jerk.
Eddie!
Stay cool baby.
Who's Eddie?
The delivery boy.
His delivery wasn't good enough though.
Whatever happened to Saturday night When you dressed up sharp And you felt alright It don't seem the same since cosmic light Came into my life and I thought I was divine.
Hot patootie Bless my soul I really love that rock and roll 
My head used to swim From the perfume I smelled. My hands kind of fumbled With her white plastic belt. I'd taster her baby pink lipstick, And that's when I'd melt. And she'd whisper in my ear, Tonight she really was mine.
Hot patootie Bless my soul. I really love that rock and roll.
Bless my soul. I really love that rock and roll.
Bless my soul. You know I love that rock and roll.
Bless my soul. I really love that rock and roll.
Hot patootie        HOT PATOOTIE - Bless my soul.        BLESS MY SO-O-OUL. I really love that rock and roll.
One from the vaults.
But a deltoid And a bicep, A hot groin And a tricep Makes me - ooh - Shake. Makes me want To take Charles Atlas By the ha-and.
There are some people who say that life is an illusion, and that reality is simply a figment of our imaginations!  If this is so, then Brad and Janet are quite safe. However, the sudden departure of their host and his creation (into the seclusion of his sombre bridal suite) had left them feeling both apprehensive and uneasy. A feeling which grew as the other guests 'departed' and 'they' were shown to their separate rooms.
Who is it?  Who's there?
It's only me, Janet.
Oh, Brad, come in, darling.
Oh Brad - Mmmm - Oh yes, my darling - what if...
It's alright Janet.  Everything's going to be alright.
Oh, I hope so my darling.  But let me switch on the light.
No, don't do that.
Oh don't be so shy.
YOU!
I'm afraid so, Janet.  But isn't it nice?
You beast, you monster, what have you done with Brad?
Nothing.  Why, do you think I should?
You tricked me - I wouldn't have - I've never - never
I know.  But it wasn't all bad was it? In fact, I think you found it quite pleasurable. Mmmmm so soft, so sensual.
Oh - Oh - no - stop - I mean help. I - Brad - Oh.  Brad.
Ssssh.  Brad's probably asleep by now. Do you want him to see you like this?
Like this - like how?  It's your fault. You're to blame.  I was saving myself.
Well, I'm sure you're not spent yet.
Promise you won't tell Brad.
Cross my heart and hope to die.
 Oh Brad, it's no good here.  It will destroy us.
Don't worry Janet, we'll be away from here in the morning.  Hmmmm, you smell so good.
Oh Brad.  Oh no.  Not till after the wedding, Darling.
Alright, Janet.  I understand.
Maybe we could try it this way.
 Janet!  Oh!  Yes it's alright.  Janet. Everything's going to be alright.
I hope so my darling.
You!
I'm afraid so, Brad.  But wasn't it nice?
Why you - what have you done with Janet?
Nothing.  Why do you think I should?
You tricked me.  I wouldn't have - I've never - never.
I know, but it wasn't all bad was it? I think you found it quite pleasurable.  Oh so soft.  So sensual.
Ahhh - no - stop - I mean Janet.  Janet.
Shush.  Janet's probably asleep by now. Do you want her to see you like this?
Like this.  Like how?  It's your fault - you're to blame.  I thought it was the real thing.
Oh come on, Brad, admit it.  It was enjoyable, wasn't it?  There's no crime in giving yourself over to pleasure.
Oh Brad, you have wasted so much time already.  Janet needn't know, I won't tell her.
You promise you won't tell?
On my mother's grave.
Master, Rocky has broken his chains and vanished.  The new playmate is loose and in the castle ground.  Magenta has just released the dogs.
I'm coming.
What's happening here?  Where's Brad? Where's anybody?
Once in a while she don't want to call you Speaking on the telephone Once in your life she won't want to know you You look around The one you've found She is gone.
I'm engaged to Brad just the same as Betty Monroe was to Ralph Hapschatt. But Frank's kisses overwhelmed me with an ecstacy I've never dreamt of before. Hot, burning kisses.
And that's all the time that it takes For a heart to turn to stone The sweeter the wine The harder to make the break You hear something about someone You'd thought you'd known.
I could see Brad's face before me and my mind screamed No!  But my lips were hungry - too hungry.
So baby don't cry like there's no tomorrow After the night there's a brand new day. And there'll be no pain And no more sorrow. So wash your face And phone my place It'll be O.K.
I wanted to be loved completely. My body throbbed excitedly.  Oh Brad, Brad my darling, how could I have done this to you?
And that's all the time that it takes For a heart to beat again. So give me a sign That a lover makes You look around The one you've found Is back again.
If only we hadn't made this journey. If only the car hadn't broken down. If only we were amongst friends or sane persons.
"If" and "Only", two small words.  Words which kept repeating themselves again and again in Janet's thoughts.  But it was too late to go back now.  It was as if she were riding a giant tidal wave.  It would be folly to fight against it.  Her only chance would be to ride it out - adapt - and perhaps also to survive.
Yes.  There you see it's instinctive. This room is your womb.  You returned here for one thing - security.
Oh Brad!  What have they done with him?
Ahhh!
Oh Brad.  How could you?  Oh, but you're hurt.  Did they do this to you?
Here, lie down.  I'll dress your wounds.
 "Emotion".  Mental agitation - an excited state of.  It is also an irrational and powerful master and from what Janet had witnessed on the monitor, there seemed to be little doubt that she was indeed its slave.
I was feeling done in Couldn't win I'd only ever kissed before
 You mean she only ever kissed?
I thought there's no use getting Into heavy petting.
Now all I want to know Is how to go I've tasted blood And I want more I'll put up no resistance I want to stay the distance I've got an itch to scratch And I need assistance.
Touch-a touch-a touch-a touch me. I wanna be dirty. Thrill me, chill me, fulfil me. Creature of the night.
And that's just one small fraction Of the main attraction You need a friendly hand. Oh, and I need action.
Touch-a touch-a touch-a, touch me.
I wanna be dirty.
Creature of the night.
Oh, touch-a touch-a touch-a touch me. I wanna be dirty. Thrill me chill me, fulfil me - oh - Creature of the night.
Creature of the night.
Creature of the night.
Creature of the night.
Creature of the night.
Creature of the night.
Creature of the night.
Creature of the night.
Creature of the night.  Oh.
Aaaargh!  Mercy.
How did it happen?  I understood you were to be watching.
I was only away for a minute Master.
Well, see if you can find him on the monitor.
Master, we have a visitor.
Great scott - Scotty - Dr Everett Scott.
You know this earth - this person.
I most certainly do.  He happens to be an old friend of mine.
I see.  So this wasn't simply a chance meeting.  You came here with a purpose.
I told you, my car broke down.
I was telling the truth.
I know what you told me, Brad. But this Dr Everett Scott.  His name is not unknown to me.
He was a Science Teacher at Denton High.
And now he works for your Government, doesn't he, Brad?  He's attached to the Bureau of Investigation of that which you call U.F.O's.  Isn't he, Brad?
He might be.  I don't know.
Hmmmm.  He'll be in the Zen Room.
Well, let's ask him.
Dr. Scott!
Brad!  What are you doing here?
Don't play games, Dr Scott.  You know very well what Brad Majors's doing here. It was part of your plan was it not that he, and his female, should check the layout for you.  Well, unfortunately for you all there's to be a change of plans.  I'm sure you're adaptable, Dr Scott.  I know Brad is.
I can assure you that Brad's presence comes as a complete surprise to me. I came to find Eddie.
Eddie?  I've seen him.  He's...
Eddie?  What do you know of Eddie, Dr Scott?
I happen to know a great deal about a lot of things.  You see Eddie happens to be my nephew.
Dr Scott.
Janet!
Dr Scott!
Janet!
Rocky!
Listen!  I made you, and I can break you just as easily.
That's better.
Master, dinner is prepared.
Excellent.
Under the circumstances, formal dress is to be optional.
Food has always played a vital role in life's rituals.  The breaking of bread - the last meal of the condemned man - and now this meal.  However informal it might appear you can be sure there was to be very little 'bonhomie'.
A toast to absent friends.
Absent friends.
We came here to discuss Eddie.
Eddie!
It's a rather tender subject.... Another slice anyone.
Excuse me.
I knew he was in with a bad crowd.  But it was worse than I imagined... Aliens!
Go on, Dr. Scott - or should I say doctor von Scott.
What exactly are you implying?
That's alright Brad.
But Doctor Scott...
From the day he was born, he was trouble.
But he never caused her Nothing but shame.
He left home the day she died.
Was rock and roll,
When Eddie said He didn't like his teddy You knew he was a no good kid.
What a guy
Makes you cry
Und I did.
Everybody shoved him, I very nearly loved him. I said, hey listen to me, Stay sane inside insanity. But he locked the door And threw away the key.
Making him warn, me, In a note
What's it say, What's it say?
I'm out of my head Oh hurry, or I may be dead. They mustn't carry out their evil deeds, Yaaaow.
When Eddie said he didn't like his teddy You knew he was a no good kid.
Und when he threatened your life With a switch blade knife
What guy
Makes you cry
Eddie!
When Eddie said he didn't like his teddy You knew he was a no good kid.
What a guy
Woe woe woe
Makes you cry
Hey hey hey
Und I did
EDDIE!
Oh Rocky, how could you!
I'll tell you once, Won't tell you twice You'd better wise up Janet Weiss.
Don't taste too nice You'd better wise up Janet Weiss.
I've laid the seed It should be all you need.
When we made it Did ya hear a bell ring?
Y'got a block, Take my advice. You'd better wise up, Janet Weiss.
The transducer Will seduce yah.
My feet - I can' move my feet.
My wheels - My God, I can't move my wheels.
It's as if we were glued to the spot.
You are - so quake with fear, you tiny fools.
We're trapped.
It's something you'll Get used to. A mental mind fuck Can be nice.
Oh!
You won't find earth people quite the easy mark you imagine.  This sonic transducer - it is, I suppose, some kind of audio-vibratory, physiomolecular transport device....
You mean...
Yes Brad.  It's something we ourselves have been working on.  But it seems our friend here has found a way of perfecting it.  A device which is capable of breaking down solid matter and then projecting it through space, and - who knows - perhaps even time itself!
You mean he's gonna send us to another planet?
Planet.
You'd better wise up, Janet Weiss. You'd better wise up, Build your thighs up. You'd better wise up.
Then she cries out -
Sto-o-o-o-o-op.
Don't get hot and flustered - Use a bit of mustard.
You're a hot dog But you'd better not Try to hurt her, Frank Furter.
You're a hot dog But you'd better not Try to hurt her, Frank Furter.
You're a hot dog...
My God!  I can't take any more of this - first you spurn me for Eddie, then you cast him off like an old overcoat for Rocky.  You chew people up and then spit them out - I loved you, do you hear me - I LOVED YOU - And what did it get me - I'll tell you - a big nothing. You're like a sponge.  You take, take, take, take!  You drain others of their love and emotions.  Well, I've had enough. You've got to choose between me and Rocky - so named because of the rocks in his head.
It's not easy having a good time.
My children turn on me.  Rocky's behaving just as Eddie did.  Maybe I made a mistake in splitting his brain between the two of them.
 When will we return to Transylvania? I grow weary of this world.
Magenta, I am indeed grateful to both you and your brother RIff Raff - you have both served me well - loyalty such as yours must be rewarded and you will discover when the mood takes me I can be quite generous.
I ask for nothing, Master.
And you shall receive it - in abundance.  Come.  We are ready for the floor show.  Our guests will be growing restless.
And so, by some extraordinary coincidence - fate it seems had decided that Brad and Janet should keep that appointment with their friend Dr Everett Scott.  But it was to be in a situation which none of them could have possibly foreseen.  And just a few hours after announcing their engagement, Brad and Janet had both tasted forbidden fruit.  This in itself was proof that their host was a man of little morals - and some persuasion.  What further indignities were they to be subjected to?  And what of the sonic transducer and floor show that had been spoken of?  What indeed?  From what had gone before, it was clear that this was to be no picnic.
It was great when it all began I was a regular Frank fan. But it was over when he had the plan To start working on a muscle-man. Now the only thing that gives me hope Is my love of a certain dope Rose tints my world keeps me Safe from my trouble and pain.
I'm just seven hours old Truly beautiful to behold And somebody should be told My libido hasn't been controlled Now the only thing I've come to trust Is an orgasmicrush of lust Rose tints my world keeps me Safe from my trouble and pain.
It's beyond me Help me Mommy I'll be good you'll see Take this dream away What's this, let's see I feel sexy What's come over me Here it comes again.
I feel released Bad times deceased My confidence increased Reality is here The game has been disbanded My mind has been expanded It's a gas that Frankie's landed His lust is so sincere.
What ever happened to Fay Wray That delicate satin-draped frame As it clung to her thigh How I started to cry For I wanted to be dressed just the same.
Give yourself over to absolutely pleasure Swim the warm waters of sins of the flesh Erotic nightmares Beyond any measure And sensual daydreams To treasure forever.
Don't dream it.  Be it.
Ach, we've got to get out of this trap before this decadence saps our wills. I've got to be strong and try to hang on.  Or else my mind, may well snap.
Und my life will be lived, For the thri-i-i-i-ill...
It's beyond me Help me Mo-ommy.
God bless Lilly Saint Cyr.
My my my my I'm a wild and an untamed thing. I'm a bee with a deadly sting. Get a hit and your mind goes ping. Your heart'll thump and your blood will sing. So let the party and the sounds rock on. Gonna shake it till the life has gone.
I'm a wild and an untamed thing I'm a bee with a deadly sting. Get a hit and your mind goes ping Your heart'll thump and your blood will sing.
Frank N. Furter It's all over Your mission is a failure.
Wait!  I can explain.
On the day I went away.
Goodbye
Was all I had to say
Now I
Want to come again and stay
Oh my, my,
Smile and that will mean I may
I've seen blue skies Through the tears in my eyes And I realise I'm going home I'm going home
Feeling
Like I'm outside in the rain
Wheeling
Free to try and find a game
Dealing
Cards for sorrow, Cards for pain.
How sentimental.
And also presumptuous of you.  You see when I said "we" were to return to Transylvania, I referred only to Magenta and myself.
You see, you are to remain here, in spirit anyway.
Great Heavens, that's a laser.
Yes, Dr Scott.  A laser capable of emitting a beam of pure anti-matter.
You mean you're going to kill him? What's his crime?
You saw what became of Eddie. Society must be protected.
Exactly, Dr Scott.  Now Frank N. Furter, your time has come.  Say goodbye to all this and hello to oblivion.
Do your worse - inferior one.
Good God.
Yes.
You've killed them.
I thought you liked them.  They liked you.
They didn't like me.  They never liked me.
 You did right.
A decision had to be made.
 You're OK by me.
Dr Scott I'm sorry about your nephew.
Yes, well perhaps it was for the best.
You must leave now Dr Scott while it's still possible.  We are about to beam the entire house back to the planet of transexual in the galaxy of Transylvania. Go now.
Our noble mission is almost completed my most beautiful sister, soon we will return to the moon-drenched shores of our "androgenous" planet.
Ah - sweet Transexual - land of night - to sing and dance once more to your dark refrains.  To take that step to the right...
But it's the pelvic thrust that really drives you insane.
And our World will do the Time Warp again.
I've done a lot God knows I've tried To find the truth I've even lied But all I know is down inside.
 And super heroes Come to feast To taste the flesh Not yet deceased And al I know Is still the beast
Is feeding.
And crawling on the planet's face Some insects called the human race Lost in time, and lost in space And meaning.
Meaning.
Science Fiction - double-feature Frank has built and lost his creature Darkness has conquered Brad and Janet The servants gone to a distant planet Oh - at the late night double-feature Picture Show - I want to go - Ohh - To the late night double-feature picture show.
