 What in thunderation --  Wait a minute -- stop --
All right --  What are you girls doin' way out here?
Until you came along we were going to Sonora.
What do you know about that. Did you sell your place?
 Not exactly. They decided gambling and dancing were bad for people.  Can I make it?
Depends on how good you drive.
She's a little out of practice.
 Slide over.
 I'm slidin' all the way over.
 So am I. Come on Elaine.
 What's the difference if we fall in the canyon.
Don't talk like that.
Nothin' to it --
-- once you know how. Trouble is, never was a woman knew how to handle a team. Shouldn't let 'em loose on the roads. No disrespect meant, Miss Wells.
Get up.
There you are. Now take it easy and you'll be all right.
Thank you, Mr. Graham.
 There's -- dead men -- in your wagon!
That's right. You had me so busy I forgot --  Come to think of it you better turn around and drive right back to Aspen.
They were murdered. I found the bodies on Alder Crick, northeast of here. Like I said if I was you, I'd go back, because the men who killed them might be on this road.
 Back to what?
Why, back to Aspen, where you came from.
Aspen doesn't want us Mr. Graham. They threw us out.
 They shouldn't have done that.
We tried to point that out. But there were some pretty nosey citizens who wouldn't listen to reason. They said Aspen had outgrown us. It's all right to play poker in your own home but not in a saloon.
 I knew something would happen when they started puttin' up fences and passin' laws.
Goodbye and thanks.
I don't like to see you go.
But that's the way it is. The live ones go out and the dead ones come in.
How does she draw?
A little hot.
You want to get out of here before noon, maybe you should lend me a hand.
Rate you're goin', we'll be here until winter.
 Account of you, I miss out on the only excitement Aspen's had for months.
You're too old to watch such goin's on.
And I'm too young.
That's right.
I don't see no sense to makin' people leave town if they don't want to leave.
I don't either -- when people are that good-lookin'. Maybe that's why -- they were too good-lookin'.  But there'll be others along to take their place after a while when this quiets down. And everything will be fine until some busybody starts stirring up trouble.
 Don't you ever run down?
 Some people just have to run other people's lives. Now take Clay. You want to amble up the street and see the fun and what does he say?
 You stick to your blacksmithin' and let me take care of Steve.
We'll both take a look. Anything's better than listenin' to Sam.  Don't forget to shoe the mule.
Who are they?
Don't know. Graham brought 'em in.
Clay, come up here a minute.
Hello Graham -- Joe -- Mr. Gardner.
Graham's got something to tell you might interest you.
 Cal Forster and his sons. Somebody killed 'em.
You know that cottonwood grove on Alder Crick? They must have been eatin' breakfast the way it looked, sittin' by the fire eatin' breakfast and when I got there nothin' but them lyin' dead in their underdrawers. No horses or guns or grub.
 Forster never did anyone any harm.  But what's that got to do with me? I came into town from the south.
This was smoulderin' on the fire.
I still don't see.
I got it day before yesterday.
Now are you interested?
You should be. Maybe Lednov heard about that Sonora ranch of yours.
Maybe he did.
We're going to look for him. Want to come along?
I've got eleven horses to get over the mountains before snow catches me and covers the feed.
 And that's more important than finding Lednov?
Like you said, maybe he knows where my ranch is. If he does, he'll be waiting on the porch.
 I'll drop the sheriff in Sonora a line to sort of look around for him.
Thanks.
Who's Lednov?
A man I used to know.
Forget somethin', Clay?
Shells. How much for six boxes?
Six times six bits. But wait until I finish this.
You might tell a fellow things, 'specially if the fellow's your brother, seems to me.
Like what?
Like why you're buyin' a whole slew of 30 30 shells all of a sudden.
I don't want to run short.
You never said this Lednov's name before, that I can remember.
No call to. That jail looked pretty solid to me.  How's she feel?
Nice.
You know bettern' to do that, Steve. Unless you're figurin' on buyin' it.
One he's got, more his size.
But it's leaded up and anyway a 22's no good for real huntin'. You shoot a man with a 22 and where are you?
The thing to do is stick to rabbits.
What was he in jail for?
You sure worry that bone. He killed a fellow.
In a fight?
The other fellow wasn't even lookin'.
This is an awful nice gun.  Certainly come in handy when there's men around who shoot people that aren't lookin'.
 I may as well buy it for him. Otherwise he'll be crying all the way over the hill.
You must be plenty worried about Lednov sneakin' up on us.  Think he will?
Yes.
At the ranch maybe?
Maybe at the ranch. Maybe sooner than that.
 Do you have to be so close-mouthed? I'm your brother. And I'm ridin' with you. Remember?
 All right. I'll tell you.
Let's say this is the penitentiary.
Here's Alder Crick.
And here we are in Aspen.
That's Sonora.
motioning) Lednov gets out of jail and comes along here to Alder Crick. Then goes along here toward the Sonora road.
That's Lednov!  We come along here.
 And meet him there.
Unless the sheriff gets too close and he holes up.
So let's go.
 Sure a lot of guys lookin' for Lednov.
Yeah -- and Lednov's only lookin' for one man. Me.
Why?
He doesn't like me. What you eatin'?
Lednov.
I don't like him.
Another one, Clay.
They sure must have been travelin'. This keeps up we can start a store.
Things get tough next winter, you'll have somethin' to wear.
I'd look good doin' the ploughin' in this.
Anybody hurt?
No. We came down the hill a little fast and...  ...the wheel broke.  Can you fix it for us?
What's the matter with her?
 Too much excitement. How about the surrey. Can you fix it?
Jimininy. You sure were lucky, just bustin' a wheel.
 You think that'sall we busted -- You should see...
This must have been in the family a long time.
 It was a gift from the citizens of Aspen. I'm Mary Wells.
And this is Helen Carter.
I'm Clay Phillips.  My brother Steve.
 Pleased to meet you, ma'am.  We found your trunk. Were you doin' the driven'?
I was at first. Then I was hanging on.  Are you going far?
Yes, ma'am.
As far as -- Sonora?
Just about.
We're going to Sonora, too, so that solves everything.
We can ride in your wagon.
We wouldn't think of asking you to take us for nothing.
There's only four of us.
I've got eleven horses.
 Morgan blood. The beat in Nevada. Clay and me have a place on the Toulomne River. We're going to raise horses like these.
They won't be riding in the wagon.
 Did you ever try taking a bunch of horses over Sonora Pass? It's quite a job.
You can't leave us here.
Course I can't. I'll give you a lift to the first ranch.
What good is it going to do us to go to some ranch?
 You can stay here if you like.
We have to get to Sonora. There are jobs waiting for us there. We'll pay you for your trouble.
I'm not running a stage line, ma'am, and I can't take a chance on losing the horses.
When you're old enough to smoke, I'll tell you.  Get the horses started on ahead, will you, Steve?
Afraid it will stop him growin'?
 Let's get your stuff in the wagon. Like I said, I'll take you to the first ranch. I wish I could carry you all the way, but I can't. It's a tough trip and women would be in the way.
 Our kind of women?
 You'll have to drive -- except down hill.
Maybe you're going about this all wrong. Why not try telling him we'll do the cookin' and mendin' and washin' for him. That usually works. (then shocked at the thought) Yeah, but suppose he took us up on it. Where would we be?
Maybe in Sonora.
What's the matter with her?
 Too much excitement. Or maybe it's just the heat. How about the surrey. Can you fix it?
Jiminy. You sure were lucky, just bustin' a wheel.
 You think that's all we busted -- You should see...
 Now where's she goin'? --
 I -- lost something.
It wouldn't happen to be this...
Who's the old folks?
 Give it to me!
This must have been in the family a long time.
 It was a gift from the citizens of Aspen. I'm Mary Wells.
And this is Helen Carter.
I'm Clay Phillips.  My brother Steve.
 Pleased to meet you, ma'am.  We found your trunk. Were you doin' the drivin'?
Come on, Honeybunch. We're changing trains.
A nice, kind wrangler is letting us ride in his wagon...
...as far as the first ranch. From then on --
What ranch?
What's the difference?
 Ask him what ranch --
There's plenty of time for that.  Come on, now. You've got to lie down out of this sun. Stop worrying. I'll find out what ranch after a while.
 Stretch out under the seat, Miss.
 Which ranch?
How's that?
She's worried about where you're taking us.
 So am I.
It's a nice place owned by an old couple named Wyatt.
They'll take you in until you can make other arrangements.
So both of you stop worrying.
Steve, see the horses don't drink too much --
Leave that unharnessing for me, Ma'am.
There's a place down a ways, where you and the girls can wash some of that dust off.
Thanks. And isn't there something we can do about supper -- or making the beds?
 Steve and me, we use a saddle for a pillow and roll up in a tarp.
 But you eat, don't you?
Mostly, we open a can of beans and boil some coffee.
Where do you keep the can opener?
In the grub box.  Toward morning the dew gets kind of heavy so maybe you better fix up a bed under the wagon. Spread some bunch grass under the tarp and the ground won't be so hard.
Marcia -- all of you. Come on.
 Where'd they go?
Swimming.
It's sort of nice having company along. Not so lonesome.
When you get the team watered, rustle up some wood.
 You boys have had enough.
And I'm the girl who used to complain to my mother about helping with the wash.
Get your rifle.
 Hold it.
Drop your gun.
 Drop yours. I'm gunshy.
Then don't come sneakin' around a man's camp.
A fellow sees a fire go out all of a sudden, he don't take chances. My name's Clayton and I'm looking for someone.
I found their surrey --
So did I. They were in it.
She's a friend -- took off this morning sort of sudden while I wasn't around.
 I'm glad you came along.  My brother, Steve. I'm Phillips.
I gave the girls a lift. Didn't know what else to do with them. Get your horse and come on.
 Here's a man says he's looking for you girls.
Hello, Miss Wells.
Jim.
I was roundin' up some stock. That's why I didn't come sooner.
What do you mean running off without a word.
I didn't know who to tell, it all happened so sudden, those people comin' and throwin' us out on the street.
Don't you think about it, darlin'. Don't you think about anythin' but us.
 Looks like we lose a good piano player.
 Jim came after me, Mary.
 I see he did.
With a milk pail in one hand and a marriage license in the other.
 Why didn't you say you wanted to get married back in Aspen. I told the man in Sonora there were four of us. If only three show up, he might call the whole deal off. We've got to stick together. Like we've always done.
I've got a chance to get married.
 That's what I'm gettin' at. It never works. Don't forget we were thrown out of Aspen.
Jim doesn't care, do you, Jim?
But Jim isn't the only one you're marrying. He has folks and friends. What are they going to say? And how're they going to feel? I tell you, it won't work.
Of course it'll work. You can get another girl to fill out the act.
 And look at it this way. How about Jim -- it puts him in a sort of tough spot.
I know what I'm doing. My folks got nothin' to do with it --
You've talked this over with them?
They know about Marcia.
 And they don't like the idea!
Suppose they don't. This is his problem. He's over twenty-one. He wants to marry Marcia and Marcia wants to marry him so let 'em alone.
If you were in his shoes would you take one of us home?
I'm not in his shoes, so leave me out of it.
 I would!
 Steve maybe you better get some wood for the fire.
Would you, Mr. Phillips?
 Go on, there's a good boy.
 Don't you want him to hear your answer? Well, I know what it is. For the other fellow it's all right -- but not you. All you want is to get rid of one of us.
Wait a minute.
No need of you two arguin' about this. We know what we want to do, and nothin' either of you says makes any difference. We want to go home -- tonight.  Will you sell me one of your horses?
I'm sorry. I can't do that. I went a long way to get those horses.
All right, we'll ride double. Come on, Marcia.
No need to do that, Marcia.
We've got two horses and they're four of us. So half of one of 'em is yours.  The other half's a wedding present.
Big-hearted fella. Can't see young love thwarted -- especially if it makes one less girl to worry about. That's all you really want, isn't it.
Is that your kind of reading, Steve?
I can't read, Ma'am. I just look at the pictures.
You can't read?
Your brother's always looked after you, hasn't he?
Since I can remember, Ma'am.
But he just never troubled to have you get any schooling?
It wasn't Clay's fault. We've been moving around most all the time -- mebbe when we get the ranch and stay in one place I can learn my letters then --
Don't you even know your letters?
No, Ma'am.
Would you like to learn them?
I sure would.
Maybe I could start you out.
That'd be swell.  You know, you're an awful lot different than I thought you'd be.
You're so nice.
Did someone say I wasn't nice?
Oh no. Nobody said nothing to me. Only I got the idea that -- well Clay and me used to be walking through town and there was your place and through the window I could see you dancing, but Clay always took me over to the other side of the street.
 Time to go to bed, Steve.
Good night, Miss Wells.
Good night, Steve.
 There's a nice boy.
Yeah.
 That why you always took him on the other side of the street?
 Maybe I don't make the grade in some ways, but I know enough to teach a kid his letters.
 He doesn't know his letters, no -- but he knows the names of animals... he knows what roots to eat when you're clear out of food... He knows the difference between a possum and a coon just by lookin' at the tracks... more than most trappers know... and he can tell whether she'll rain or shine tomorrow by smelling the air tonight. There's a lot of things he doesn't know, I hope he'll never learn.
Like what?
 Like sticking his nose into other people's business.
Where's Elaine?
She was here a while ago.
 Elaine!
Elaine.  Clay -- Elaine's gone.
She can't have gone far. I wasn't asleep long.
What would she run off for?
 Because she's sick.
 Stay here. One woman wanderin' off's enough.
Don't you worry, Miss Wells. We'll find her.
 Build the fire up and stick close to it. Come on, Steve.
 Look around. She can't have gone far.
 Elaine -- Elaine -- Elaine.
Elaine -- Elaine.
Ma'am -- you shouldn't have run off like that. Why I was just about to give up lookin'. Come on, now.
You can't stay here. There's snakes and it's cold and you'll just get sicker.
I don't care.
Suppose that Lednov was to have found you, instead of me. Why you wouldn't have had a chance.
 I said I didn't care.
What's botherin' you, anyway?
Runnin' off and worryin' people. Makin' it tougher on Clay than it is already.
 Don't ask me because I won't tell you! I won't tell anybody! Go away!
Don't act so -- crazy.
 I'm sorry. Let's go.
 That's a good girl.
That's it. Watch out where you're steppin' --
That oughta be --  Down.
Lednov --
Want to take her off our hands?
Who shot who?
Nobody. The light was bad.
Steve's!
What's she doin' runnin' around the country at night.
I wouldn't know. Did you ask her?
All I can get out of her is she don't care about livin'.
Look of things, she doesn't.
Yeah. Keep a closer eye on her --  And him. Shootin' going on, we'll never find Lednov.
There was only three of them at first. I guess I lost my head.
 How'd you happen to miss?
They were quite a ways off and the wind was blowin'. I didn't have them to aim.
Good thing you didn't.
Clay --
A man can't help gettin' excited once in a while.
That's right, Steve.
Can I have my gun back?
Sure. You'll find it under the wagon seat. Like I said before, a twenty- two's more your size.
 Gee, I can't.
Why not? You went farther than that last time.
I'm too old for it, Miss Wells... That's for little kids.
Don't be silly... Nobody's too old to learn.
 Okay. A-B-C -- D-E-F -- G-H-I --
 Oh, Steve!
Get back to the horses. They're straggling.
He's learning his letters.
Yeah. While the horses wander all over the country.
 Do like I said.
 Learnin' to read has nothing to do with the right or the wrong side of the street.
 Are the horses stragglin' or aren't they?
 They're stragglin'.
His letters will keep.
Steve -- I want you to learn to read. I meant to teach you but I never seemed to find time. I figured when we got settled on the ranch we'd get around to it.
It's all right with me if she teaches you, but I don't want you forgettin' your job.
 I won't again.
This isn't like other trips we've taken. For one thing, we've got a wagonload of women. For another there's a guy wanderin' around hopin' to put a bullet in my back.
Okeh, I was wrong. But you can't expect a fellow who never saw Lednov and never heard his name until a while ago to do too much worryin'. You've been sorta close mouthed about him.
I guess I have. You were pretty little when they locked him up. I don't suppose you even remember that time I was gone two months.
Sure I remember. You went to Mexico lookin' for cattle.
 You remember Jeff Rawson? -- We used to go fishing and hunting with him when you were so high.
 Sure I do. Went off down to Mexico or something...
That's what I told you then. Only he didn't. Lednov killed him.
Oh... that's the time you went away.
 I caught up with Lednov in Nogales. He didn't like the idea of comin' back across the border but he came. I turned him over to the sheriff and -- that's the story.
 Maybe you shoulda killed him.
Maybe I should. But I was never much on killin'. Anyway, he moved too quick and I just got him through the shoulder.  Looks pretty peaceful up ahead.
Yeah, it does.
But you never can tell. Why don't you get that new rifle out of the wagon?
And while you're there you might as well find out what comes after K.
 Elaine -- stop it --
She should be in bed where it's dry.
 Yes, Ma'am, she should...
But the nearest shelter's the Wyatt ranch and that's maybe five hours away.
Can we get a doctor at that ranch?
 No, Ma'am, we can't. We can get a roof and a fire and maybe Mrs. Wyatt knows something about taking care of sick people.
 My name's Wyatt. Certainly glad you boys dropped in.
Those the only horses you got?
Why, yes. They're all I need...
Mine's gone lame. Take a look at him.
Go on, we haven't got all day.
Whoa, boy. Let's have a look.
He dropped a shoe. You shouldn't be ridin' him.
Put on another one.
That won't help the stone bruise. You ain't been around horses much, looks like.
Will you quit gabbin' and do what you're told.
 All right, but it won't do much good.
I was up to my elbows in flour when you boys rode up, that's why I din't come out sooner. I hope Ed asked you to stay the night?
All we want's supper.
We're in a hurry.
Take care of that horse?
 Yeah. The best I could.
What are you doin' --
Lookin' around.
These all the shells you got?
Put my guns down and get out of here --
Ed -- no, Ed.
Your old woman's got sense -- you listen to her.
I asked you -- these all the shells you got?
 They's a box in the cupboard over the sink.
 Get on about your chores.  And hurry that grub up.
Only a little ways now -- maybe a mile.
How's she makin' out?
 If she feels worse than I do, she's dyin'.
 Steve --
Yo --
I'll have some more of that coffee.
We got to get movin'.
What for?
Because there's a man I want to see.
He can wait. Let's stay here until morning.
 I said let's go.
 One night more won't matter. Your friend'll be there. Anyway I don't think so much of the idea of prowling around his ranch. He knows you're out so he ain't going to sit still for it.
 I said I had a guy to see and I'm going to see him.
He gave me something once so I wouldn't forget.
 He says go, we go.
If they'd only left me a gun, I'd fix 'em.
Hush, Ed. Hush. They might come back.
Mr. Wyatt.
Who is it?
Clay Phillips.
 You can light the lamp.  I'm sure glad it's you. We were afraid those killers might come back.
Three men on matched roans?
Yeah, how did you know?
The whole state's lookin' for 'em.  And they're lookin' for me.
You don't know how good it is to see you.
Maybe you won't feel that way after I tell you what I stopped in for.
I picked up some women on the road.
Tell them to come on in.
But I'm going to have to leave 'em here. They're --- well they're not the sort of people you're used to.
 It doesn't matter who they are.
 And one of 'em is sick.
Why didn't you say so. Go right out and get her. Ed. build the fire up.
 Wrap a stove lid in dish towels and bring it in here. This bed's like ice.
 Put it back.
Someone might as well get some good out of it. Wyatt crosses to the trunk.
It isn't as if she was dead.
 It stays there, understand!
 Right in here, Mr. Phillips.
The bed's all ready and warm --
 Go out and make some coffee.
Go on. You too, Mr Phillips.
Is she very sick?
 Get 'em out of here. I won't have 'em in this house.
 So that was why she tried to run away.
 Didn't you know she had a father and mother out here?
 I didn't know anything about her except she wanted a job because some man had left her stranded. I couldn't leave her in the street. Let's go.
Hold on.
We can't stay here!
It's a long walk back to Aspen.
I don't know about you. But I'm not being thrown out on an empty stomach.
I'm sorry about this, Mr. Wyatt. I didn't know who she was.
 All right, you didn't know.
I can't take her with me.
Nobody asked you to.
Just get those two out of here.
You're not bein' quite fair.
What's there to be fair about?
I'm sorry about this, Mr. Wyatt. I didn't know you had a daughter.
 All right, you didn't know.
I can't take her with me.
Nobody asked you to.
Just get these two out of here.
You're not bein' quite fair.
What's there to be fair about?
Hello, Mr. Wyatt.
 Where do I put your things?
Back in the wagon.
Aren't we stayin'?
No. We're not stayin' --
Everything's all mixed up, so don't ask questions.
 Go on, Steve.
Sit down and eat, why don't you?
It isn't like this was the first place we were ever thrown out of.
That's not what's worryin' me. Why didn't she tell us? Maybe we could have done somethin' -- gone somewhere else -- puttin' a poor sick kid through this --
Quit worryin' about Elaine.
She's home, isn't she? So worry about us. We want to get to Sonora.
This will be your room until Mr. Wyatt finds time to take you to the nearest stage station.
 That sounds like him.
This time don't talk about cooking!
Coffee?
No, thanks. (indicating Elaine's bedroom) I hope we won't be a burden to them.
I hope so, too.
 If you're figuring on asking me to take you, it's no use.
A time like this people ought to be alone. Having us around is going to make it sort of hard on 'em.
 I'm sorry, but that's how it's got to be.
I suppose it is.
And it's not only because the trip's a tough one --
 You don't have to explain. Did I tell you how grateful I am for what you've done?
I couldn't leave you sitting by the road.
You could have treated us like they did in Aspen. No. You wouldn't do a thing like that -- it isn't in you to be mean or cruel.
 No man who brings up a kid like you've brought up Steve could ever be cruel to people.
I hope you get everything you want out of life --
 Thanks.
You've earned it -- the horse ranch on the Toulomoe -- the girl in the spotted gingham.
The who?
You should know. She's in your dream.
Ever since you've looked after Steve you've had the dream -- a ranch on the river -- good grass, good water, barn corral and house --- that part you've shared with Steve. The girl in gingham you plan sneakin' in when he isn't looking. 
 Go on. Tell me more about her.
She wears this gingham dress -- cooks popovers -- makes jam in season -- makes her own soap from pig fat and wood ashes and has cheeks the color of red apples.
 I'll make the soap myself.
But the rest is right.
Will she be dark or fair?
Blonde as a new mop. And beautiful as the girl on a feed store calendar.
 I hope you find her -- because, like I said, you've earned your dream. Goodnight.
Did you make it interesting?
I tried my best, but these things take time.
And we're running out of that.
There's still tomorrow morning.
Those trunks look like ours.
They are.
How long do you think we'll have to stay here?
Until Pa gets around to driving us to Minden.
We don't want to go there.
No we don't. But that's where we're going. From Minden we take a stage to Reno, then another one over to Auburn and another one to Placerville. Then it's a day's trip to Sonora.
Clay could save us an awful lot of time.
He certainly could. About a month.
What are you waiting for? Do something.
 You're not giving up?
How many ways can a man say no.
 Maybe I better start working on him.
You'd think he'd do it for Elaine's sake, at least...
 If you can't bring him around, nobody can.
Go on. Have another try at him.
What's the use.
 Please. Maybe he'll take a good look at you and stop thinking so much about his horses.
A man has only so many no's in him.
Look at you, sitting up already.
Let me do this while you get some breakfast.
But I like to do it.
You're worn out.
Now don't argue. You've got two able- bodied girls to help you so take advantage of it. And don't let me catch you touching the dishes.
Well -- it's going to be good for all of us -- having a nice long rest here. After all -- Sonora will still be there next month. Maybe we can rehearse a new number -- try it out on your folks.
Helen -- why don't you and Mary go on with Clay?
He won't take us.  Don't you want us around?
Of course I do -- but it'd be better for you -- and the house is kind of small --
If you're worried about Mary and me talkin' too much, don't. No matter how many questions your old man asks. We know how to keep our mouths shut.
It isn't that --
Don't talk -- eat -- we want to get you well quick as we can so we can all get out of here.
But I want to stay.
Drink this and stop being silly. Why would anyone want to live in this place. You might as well be dead and buried. Nothing to do but look at mountains. In a week you'd be talking to yourself.  Maybe that's what got you started in the first place.
 I'm not going anywhere. I'm staying here where I belong.
Not if I know Mary. When she rides into Sonora, you'll be with her. And mighty glad to be there after this. I don't see how you stood it as long as you did.
 Stop it -- stop it.
 Darling -- now I've got you all upset.
Go away -- please.
That's right -- you go back to sleep. Tomorrow when you feel better things will look a whole lot different. Don't you worry about anything -- Mary's going to talk things over with your folks --
 She mustn't -- don't you let her --
There, there. Don't you upset yourself --
 If she says anything to them I'll kill her.
 I don't want to leave you, ever.
What did you do to her?
Nothing. The poor child's worried about Mary --
I won't let her say anything --
Well, I'm off --
 What's the matter?
Don't let them stay here, Mr. Phillips. They'll spoil everything.
 Take them with you -- Mary's going to talk to dad -- she's going to keep talking and talking to me until maybe I won't want to stay here --
Please take them.
I can't --
You've got to -- don't you understand -- they want me with them and they'll fix it so I have to go --
 No they won't.
What comes after Z?
That's the end of the line.
 Then I know my alphabet.
From A to Z. All you have to do now is figure out what they mean put together in words.
And that's tough, isn't it?
Without someone to teach you, it's tough.
He knows his alphabet.
That's fine.
I'll bet I'd be reading in a week if --
Maybe Clay will take up where I left off.
I don't think it's fair --
Leaving them here when we could just as well take them. We got plenty of room in the wagon. And -- and -- they cook and drive the mules. They don't bother anybody.
Finished, son?
 There's only two of them now.
I'll round up the horses. Throw that junk in the wagon.
 You were right -- a man has only so many no's in him. But he had me worried -- that last one sounded so final.
It's a lot tougher than I figured. Knowin' my letters is one thing. But makin' sense out of words is harder'n trackin' weasel after rain.
-- and even if I do learn to read, what use'll it be? I'm goin' to live on a ranch!
There's plenty of use for reading -- you'll see.
U-n-i-c-o-r-n-... What in heck's that?
Unicorn -- a kind of animal --
What do they look like?
Hmmm... sort of like a horse -- with a horn in the center of its forehead.
Horses with horns! Huh! Do we have 'em in Nevada?
No.
How about California?
Would they be good to eat?
 Kind of tough, I guess... But you're not liable to hunt them -- I don't think there's any alive now, anyways -- and I'm not sure but I don't think there ever were...
Then if they wasn't alive, how can they be an animal?...
An' if you can't hunt 'em and even if you could they'd be tough, what's the use of knowin' how to spell them?
You don't read to fill your stomach... Poetry, for instance. All the poems in the world wouldn't fill you half as much as a bowl of eatmeal -- but they make you feel good.
 I feel good anyways.
Don't go arguing with your teacher.
I'm not, but there's some of it I don't see any sense to.
There's a lot of things I don't see any sense to. But make up your mind. Learn to read or --  -- go back and watch the horses.
Well, Steve?
 Now I know what a unicorn is, what do we do next?
We'll camp on up ahead away. That leg ain't good...
We're staying here until dark.  Pull over to the woods.  You put hobbles on the horses -- all of 'em. Get goin'.
Where you goin'? Over to the other side of the street?
Are we leaving?
It's too light yet.
Better go on back and get some more sleep. You'll need it later on.
 You're not going out to look for them?
No, I'm not. All I want 'em to do is keep ahead of us -- a long way ahead. So I'm riding up the line aways to pick us out a new trail.
Nobody's gonna catch him sleeping. Don't worry about him.
 Oh, I wasn't worrying.  I saw him saddling up and thought he was ready to leave.
 You were worryin'.
Sometimes not knowin' how to read has its points. You can't read books so you look at people and figure 'em out.
And you've got me all figured out?
Sure.
I'll fix us somethin' to eat.
Like when you were standin' there looking after Clay. I knew right off what you were thinking. Because I've been watching you.
You were supposed to be reading words.
I was doin' both. Here.
Thanks, Steve.
Better not let Clay catch you waitin' on us.
Don't pay any attention to him. That's his way and I've found he's sure easy to get along with. I don't recollect him havin' hit me more'n a couple of times and I guess I had it comin'.
But you're his brother.
He'll treat his wife just as good. Maybe better. Ever see him use a bull snake on the mules like other wranglers?
Yes sir, Clay's nice to be around.  He don't chew much and when he does he spits outside.
 You make him sound wonderful... Go on. Tell Mary more about him.
She was only teasin'.
 Oh, sure.
Let me do that.
I like to do things for you. Didn't you know?
 I know now.
Don't you trust me?
Not on this trail, I don't. I've been over it before. Anyway, you ought to be pretty sleepy. Why don't you climb in back.
I like to see where I'm going.
 Did you ever care where you were goin' or where you'd been?
Maybe not! But I want to get there in one piece.
 Why did you change your mind about bringing us along?
Why do you think?
 I don't know. I thought I did. Now I'm not sure. I thought it had something to do with me.
Oh, it did. It had a great deal to do with you.
Just how do you mean that?
You know so much about me -- figure it out.
So that's it --  You think I was making fun of your girl in gingham.
I wasn't. And I wasn't making fun of you or your dream.
Of course, maybe I was trying to get you to do something you didn't want to do.
You wouldn't do a thing like that, would you?
 Yes. But -- that was the other night. Now -- I don't think I would.
That's the West Walker. Take it easy now.
Hold it!
What are you doin' on this trail?
Followin' it. Any reason I shouldn't?
My name's Fowler. I'm camped up a ways.
Clay Phillips of Aspen. Been havin' trouble?
Nope. But I don't want any.
Neither do we. That's why we took this trail instead of the main road, and drove all night.
You're welcome to use my camp.
We might as well start a fire.
Go ahead.  Get in training for the pioneer life. I'm finding the nearest body of water and climbing into it.
Got a light?
 Want the wagon unloaded, Clay?
 Just the grub box and bed rolls.
I -- I think it'll be swell.
When you get older you'll understand things better. Like women and men. Just because a man kisses a woman, doesn't always mean -- well, he can kiss her and not want to -- have her around all the time.
We got a lot to do, you and I. Gettin' that ranch started and everything. We've been getting along fine, all these years. For a while I want to keep it the way it is.
Take that in and help her get breakfast, will you?
 What are you doing down here?
 You got no business snoopin' around --
 Me snoopin'? I came down here to take a bath.
That something I shouldn't see?
 No. But it's mine and I didn't want anyone foolin' with it.
What is it?
Just a thing I was workin' on.
The way you act, it must be something pretty secret.
Go on. Take your bath. I'll beat it.
You wouldn't have a smoke on you, would you?
Thanks.
That sure smells good.
I like it.
Up here in the hills, a man gets a hankering to smell powder.
Then why stay in the hills.
That why?
I guess you can keep a secret. That's a gold rocker. I'm doin' a little placer mining in a place nobody ever thought to look for gold before.
Look at her -- see her shine. One week's work.
 Roll me a cigarette, Clay.
Thanks.
Why didn't you wake me?
You should have. I don't like leaving things unfinished.
 Maybe it's better that way.
 You don't mean that Clay.
 Tell me, darling.
What?
What does a man usually tell a girl?
Tell me -- please --
All right you don't love me. So let it go at that.
What did you expect? Speeches I don't mean?
I don't expect anything. A minute ago I hadn't cuite waked up.
I'm awake now. Go on. Say what you want to say. I'll listen.
If it's pretty speeches you want, you won't be hearing them. Even when I mean 'em, they don't come easy.
Save 'em for the girl in gingham. Just tell me I'm not good enough for you. Go on. Say a woman like me can't change.
All right -- it's said!
Then let's get started. The sooner I get to Sonora, the better I'll like it.
You're sure there's more where this came from?
Plenty more.  And somewhere up there's the lode, the rock rotten with it.
Pretty, isn't it? And all you have to do is shovel sand into a thing and the river does the work.
 Give it back to him. We're leavin'.
Maybe you are. I'm not.
I'm stayin' here with Jed.
 I figure we'll get along just fine.
Well cheer, why don't you? No more responsibilities, Mary. Marcia -- Elaine -- me -- all taken care of. Down there feeding horses and raising kids, you won't have a thing to worry about.
I'm not raising horses or kids for anybody. I'm opening the slickest gambling house in California with a crystal chandelier, the biggest you ever saw --
-- Gaslights and a dance floor and a big bar. Cash registers with bells and a couple of boys with armbands just to keep 'em ringing. What do you think of that?
Sounds fine. Only that isn't how it's going to be.
I'm sure of this. But not of you.  You won't open any joint. I've been watching you change. You're mad now and you think you can change back. But you can't. You'll end up making beds in a boarding house.
 That's it then.
 That's it. She's staying with me -- for keeps.
If there were more men like you, there wouldn't be so many of us.
Thanks.
It's nice to meet a man who doesn't want to own a woman from the day she was born. I never had the luck. The only kind I've run into were tramps or dirty-minded hypocrites.
 She's aimin' at me, but her aim's bad.  Want to know why I changed my mind about bringing you? Because I talked to Elaine -- because I was afraid to leave you with decent people, that's why. And you'll open your joint all right. You wouldn't fit anywhere else.
Let's round up the horses.
 Come on -- we don't want to keep the people in Sonora waiting.
Mary, Honey. I talked too much, like always -- he thinks you told Elaine the things I told her.
 I don't care what he thinks.
Clay -- look!
Mary --
 Are you all right?
 No, I'm not all right. I'm soaked and I hit myself against that rock.
 I suppose that's my fault.
 All my clothes --
That's right -- worry about your clothes --
What about my wagon. Of all the crazy fool things to do. You lose a man's wagon because you're stupid and then yell about your clothes.
For the wagon.
Go on, take it. Then you can't spend the rest of the trip expecting to get paid.
 There won't be any rest of the trip. Over the hill is a stage road and when we hit it you get dumped into the first stage that comes along. So keep your money. You'll need it for the fare. I'm fed up with you. I was fed up with you before we started.
Don't just stand there. Go on back and get the packs on the horses. We've lost all the time we're going to because of a woman.
Come on. Didn't you hear me?
We got company. Female company.
 Yeah, we sure have.
You can put this out of the way, Jed. It's empty.
 What do you want?
I saw your fire and dropped by to say hello.
Well, say it.
What's the matter -- restless?
Yes, people make me restless.
Even women?
There aren't any women here.
I suppose that's your wagon in the river.
Some people who went by this way lost it.  Two men and some women. They packed their stuff on horses and went on.
And you're all alone.
Yeah.
Suppose I take a look.
Go ahead.
Looking for something?
Hold it, Mac.
Get up.
Come on. Where'd the women go?
When I ask questions, I like to hear answers.
They went on like I told you.
How long ago?
Five, six hours.
Sit down.  All right, Peters, come on over here.
 So you were all alone.
 You keep your hands off.
 Let him alone!
Kick a guy, would you! You scum! You won't do any kickin' when they come back.
You dirty murderers... killin' people when they're sleepin'...
How do you know who we are?
Everybody knows --
 Who brought you here?
You said somebody was comin' back -- who's comin' back?
 Stop it --
Clay Phillips.
Where is he?
Up the trail.
How far up the trail?
 I don't know -- I don't know.
 You didn't have to do that.
 Why not? She might have got to Clay Phillips before I did.
Are you all right?
For the last ten miles I've been trying to figure out how to sleep sitting up. I'm getting to the point where I don't think there's any place named Sonora.
It's a long ways yet.  I figure we ought to camp. She's tired.
So am I and so are the horses.
 Take the packs off. And run the horses into the corral.
I said take the packs off.
 I figure we'll make better time, letting the horses rest for a spell.
So grab yourself some sleep while you have the chance.
If you want to go on, I can make it all right.
Like I said, I was thinkin' of the horses.
You stretch out. I'll fix something to eat.
 Thanks, Steve.
 If you want 'em to find us, why don't you go up on the hill and wave your shirt or fire your rifle.
I didn't stop to think, Clay.
 You better start.
Maybe you and me better split up when we hit Sonora.
 All right, I hurt your feelings. But you know better than to go lightin' fires.
That ain't why. I just figure it's about time to start runnin' my own life.
Maybe you're not hungry, but I am.
Come on. We got a couple hours to eat and get some sleep.
I'll eat when I'm good and ready.
Kind of feeling your oats this morning. I haven't laid a hand on you for quite a while, but that doesn't mean you're too old.
What makes you think you're so almighty? Telling people what to do and how to act when you don't even know how yourself.
You ain't even man enough to own up when you're wrong.
Go on, hit me.
Sit down and eat. Till I say the word, you're doing what you're told.
You oughta say you're sorry -- that's what you oughta do.
You keep your nose out of my life, young fella.
Maybe I haven't lived as long as you have, but I know a sight more about people and I wouldn't talk to a mule like you talked to her and, if I did, I'd say how sorry I was. I'd be man enough to do that.
I said keep your nose out of my life. No kid is going to tell me how to run it.
You think you're so slmighty -- smart -- Who are you to sit up there and say nobody's good enough for you, like you said yesterday -- just because a man kisses a woman --
-- doesn't mean he wants to marry her.
Well, if you didn't mean it, why did you kiss her?
Shut up and eat.
 Stop it -- both of you.
I won't have you fighting over me.
 I'm sorry.
You don't know what it is to be sorry.
 Steve --
 Mind sortin' out my things -- I'm leaving.
Maybe it isn't going to Sonora, but it's going somewhere, which is all right with me.
It's going to Sonora.
Fine -- maybe I'll see you there sometime.
Because as you said, that's where I belong.
I said a lot of things -- some of 'em --
Some of 'em you didn't mean but most of 'em you did. I don't blame you because I understand your way of thinking and why you think that way. You want your women on pedestals. But they have to be born on 'em -- they can fall off but they can't climb back up.
 I can't help how I think. You're trained a certain way when you're a kid and you can't change.
If you're gonna catch this stage, come on.
I can't change either. Not unless somebody wants me enough to give me a hand.
Hurry up.
 I'm fool enough to believe that one of these days somebody will. Somebody who wants me as I am will maybe walk into the place where I'm working and take me out of there.
Maybe they will.
Mind giving a lady a lift into town?
 Climb right in.
Will you be seeing the sheriff?
Depot's right next to his office.
 Goodbye, ma'am.
 Goodbye, Steve. Don't fight with him any more.
It's not his fault, just you remember that. It's mine. Don't ask me why because you couldn't understand now. Some day you will.
Goodbye. Thanks for the lift.
Goodbye, Mary.
By the way, if you ever go past the Wyatt ranch, have another talk with Elaine.
You know what she asked me?
I don't care what she asked you.
She told me not to fight with you anymore. She said it wasn't your fault, but -- I figure different...
It is so your fault and... and I guess maybe when we hit the ranch... you andme better...
 You want to split up? --
-- Why wait? Go on, saddle up now and beat it.
Half of them are mine.
 You'll get your share. Go on. I don't want you around.
There you are.
What did you come back for?
Like I told you, half those horses are mine. I'm makin' sure they get to the ranch safe. So let's quit arguing and do whatever you figure on doin'.
 Is that the only reason you came back?
 Sure. What other reason would there be?
 I just wondered. Let's go.
 Go on down and have a look.
 And get my head blown off! Not me.
Call it.
Heads.
And you! Get going.
 Stick here.
 Come on out, Phillips.
 Those horses down there -- they don't amount to much to me. Look at the one with the bell.
 Next time I won't miss.
 Watch the one with the white face.
I'm here Lednov.
Come on out.
Come and get me.
 How's that?
Kind of sore.
You'll live.
 Guess maybe I'm old enough to hold my own in a fight, huh?
Yeah -- but don't make a habit of it.
So -- maybe I'm old enough to tell you how to run your life?
 I guess so -- but don't make a habit of it.
Well, then, I know it takes three -- four weeks for you to come round to admit when you're wrong... But by that time she's liable to be in China...
 Hold her steady. I'm not hurting him.
Maybe you're not, but I'll sure be glad when you stop pokin' me.
Is it very bad?
 Course not. A scratch.
What are you doin' here?
Holding the lamp.
Then hold it a little lower.
Thanks for taking over.
 Thanks for loading me on the stage. I know now why you did it.
Like I said, women get in the way sometimes.
He tried to get rid of me, too, Miss Wells.
Keep still, will you.
Put him over there on the cot. Goodnight... He'll be all right.
Goodnight.
Goodnight, Miss Wells.
 If you need me, I'll be --
Where you going?
To the other side of the street.
Mary.
That job you were talkin' about, did you get it yet?
Why?
 Because... well, you said you wanted a man to think enough of you to walk in the place you were working and take you out of there... tonight I was sort of tied up with Steve... but tomorrow I figured on doing just that.
 I haven't got the job yet.
But if you want to wait until tomorrow --
 Is there any place in town a man could buy some gingham?
