--Like something is brewing, about to begin-- The shadow's direction becomes purposeful - taking us down through the clouds, whipping us on the wind towards a small town in the distance.
--Can't put me finger on what lies
Downwards and downwards until it skittishly circles a large, bustling park and then swoops us into the lavish gardens. There, a ten-year-old girl plays in the lush grass; she puts the finishing touches to a miniature version of the large park she sits in - benches made from twigs, trees from flowers, picnic cups from acorns - and gives a satisfied nod. She wraps her arms tightly around her chest, lifts her face to the sky, a half-smile threatening to break across her concentrated face. This is the young P.L. TRAVERS (whom we will also know as GINTY.)
--But I feel what's to happen, all
Her little brow is furrowed with imagination and then, all of a sudden, the smile breaks free as something in her mind becomes real.
Downstairs the doorbell rings. Pamela closes her eyes, breathes. It rings again, Pamela shakes her head, tuts. She stands up, smooths down her skirt with flat palms. Breathes.
Mrs Travers.
You're ready to--? Like pink clouds on sticks.
Excuse me?
The cherry blossoms
The car should be here, may I use--
You--?
Mrs Travers.
Mrs Travers, please, why--  Why would you cancel the car?
I shan't be going. Diarmuid buries his face in his hands.
We've been through this--
I've changed my mind.
You can't.
With all due respect Mr Russell I am on very good terms with my own faculty and exceedingly confident in its decision making capabilities. Diarmuid's shoulders visibly sag, he lets out a long frustrated breath.
You made an agreement. Do you understand? A verbal agreement.
Why in the world are you speaking to me as if I am a neonate?
He'll what? Sue? He is most welcome to every penny I don't have.
Pamela snorts.
I like to think of it, believe me I know it's not reciprocated.
I know what he's going to do to her- - she'll be cavorting and twinkling! Careening towards a happy ending like a kamikaze--
--We've been trying to do this deal for twenty years! He's agreed to both your stipulations. No animation, script approval-- I--
Use her to pay my bills? If I believed in a hell I'd be sitting in its waiting room--
Where is Polly?
I fired her. Diarmuid shakes his head, sighs.
It's just as well. It seems I can't afford her anymore anyway! Pamela looks to the ceiling, breathes.
Polly?
Of course not Polly! Pamela huffs, digs her heel into the rug.
 Los Angeles.
You have only to go there and work for two weeks. Collaborate. That's it. You haven't signed the rights over, yet.
Yet!
You must make it work Mrs Travers--
Oh I must, must I?
You need the money. I don't want you to see you-- .
I am picking up the telephone Mrs
Diarmuid gets up.
I have final say?
You do.
And if I don't like what they are doing to her?
You don't sign the papers. He cannot make the film unless you grant the rights.
What do you say?
Excuse me ma'am, have you seen my daughter? I was quite sure I had left her around here somewhere! Ginty giggles.
Her name is Helen, no, Shirley, erm- - goodness! I've quite forgotten! Could it be Prunella?
No!
Pamela?
No.
You're right still doesn't sound quite-- I'm sure I have a special name for her--
Ginty!
Why, thank you ma'am! Ginty it is of course!
It's me! Travers puts his nose right up to hers, peering into her face.
Gosh! So it is! Well, thank goodness for that! I was positive I was going to be beheaded for losing Her Highness The Royal Princess Ginty Mc Featherfluffy!
You can't lose me!
Never. I promise. I will never lose you! He swings her up onto his shoulders and gallops off through the park, neighing like a horse.
Hurry now! We mustn't be late! The adventure is about to begin!
Can I help you?
I'm perfectly capable thank you. The flight attendant tries to help anyway.
They've used all the space; so greedy. She glares at the people around her.
I'll take it Madam. I can put it up here -
I don't want it up there. I want it here, in the corresponding holding area for my assigned seat!
The flight's closing in just a few moments Ma'am. I'll have to take it. Pamela narrows her eyes at the attendant as if to say `I dare you.' A woman, with an infant, stands up.
Jolly good. Pamela gives her a watery smile and takes the seat next to the window, she looks out at the tarmac. She closes her eyes, takes a deep breath, opens her eyes again and tucks her feet tidily together. She folds her hands neatly into her lap and looks straight ahead.
The carriage?
Who needs a carriage my love? A stroll is a gift!  Everybody ready?
Come along my team! We mustn't miss the train.
 Thank you so much. For everything.
Walking bus! The family get into line, one behind the other, Travers in the lead.
Don't forget Andrew! Ginty takes Andrew's leash, her own case and somehow helps her sister too.
Ready? And off we go! Passersby tut and shake their heads at the noisy display as Travers and the girls march down the street.
Left, right, left, right! Coming through! Margaret stays for a beat, longingly taking in and storing a picture of the home she leaves behind.
Oh does he indeed? She approaches the uniformed driver (RALPH - Mickey Mouse on his lapel) who bursts into a beaming smile.
Travers? P.L. Travers?
Mrs.
Welcome, Mrs P.L. Travers! Welcome to the City of Angels. Pamela sneers. He grabs her bags.
Let me take those.
I'm perfectly capable of-- Oh, nevermind. Ralph ushers Pamela through the doors--
Sun came out to say hello just to you.
Don't be preposterous. Pamela sniffs the air.
It smells. Like--
Jasmine.
--chlorine and sweat. Ralph chuckles.
It's dreadful.
You okay back there Mrs P.L. Travers?
It's not Mrs P.L. It's just Mrs-- Oh, it's so hot.
No problemo! We got a brand new air conditioning system, Missus; cool you right down in no time. Just about make you feel like you're in good old Engerland again! Things they can put in cars these days-- (he shakes his head in
Gosh almighty. Pamela presses her fingers to her temples. She looks around, finds a button, pushes it and the screen rises between passenger and driver miraculously relieving her of Ralph's natter.
 No problemo.
Would you like me to unpack for you ma'am?
Unpack?
To take your items from their cases and hang them in the wardrobe ma'am.
Young man, if it is your wish to handle ladies garments I suggest you take employment in a launderette. The porter has no idea what to say, he hovers at the door.
Yes? His eyes flick to his empty palm and back to Pamela. She closes the door on him.
Odd. She turns and for the first time takes in--
Oh my. --The LUDICROUS suite she has been assigned; it is opulent beyond imagine but it's classy decor has been rather diminished by the array of Disney gifts splattered across every surface of the room.
Oh no, no, no. Disney Flowers, Disney champagne, Disney exotic fruit baskets, Disney chocolates, Disney posters, cuddly Donald, Pluto and Minnie toys and - taking up the entire bed - the BIGGEST stuffed Mickey Mouse imaginable. Imagine it. Nope.
Pamela cannot contain her horror. She stares at it in disgust for a moment, and then her eyes fall upon three pears in the fruit basket. She stops still for a second before rushing over and picking them out. She turns them over in her hands before an enormous wave of panic washes over her.
 This won't do. She throws open the balcony doors for fresh air and is greeted with dry arid heat, dust, dazzling sunlight--
A palace! Complete with mighty steed.
And chickens.
Travers puts an arm around her shoulder.
We'll build beautiful memories here my angel. Margaret offers him a trusting smile.
Yes. Travers takes Ginty and Biddy's hands and they run towards their new home. The chickens scatter.
 --in this house you get to share a bedroom! Margaret looks at the surrounding area, there's simply nothing but barren land and red dust for miles.
SPLOSH! A green bomb disturbs the tranquil surface and then another SPLOSH! We rise through the water to see Pamela on her balcony throwing the pears, one by one, into the swimmer-free swimming pool.
Good riddance. She breathes a sigh of relief and closes the balcony doors.
Good Lord. Pamela drops her bags, grabs Mickey and places him on the floor, facing the wall.
There. Pamela is restless, she looks around the room, stands in front of a full length mirror, admiring herself. She turns her face slightly to catch it at its best angle. She leans forward and explores the contours of her face, surprisingly unlined for a woman of her years. She smiles, full of vanity.
Well, no, I don't suppose I do mind. She laughs, but Pamela finds joy difficult so it comes out as an ugly snort.
Now, really! Flatterer!  Silly girl. She turns her attention away from the mirror and picks up a remote control staring at it with bemusement. She points it at the television hitting random buttons until suddenly the TV bursts into life.
Oh! She clicks again, the TV goes off, again and it's on. A housewife advertises dish soap with glee, as if dish soap is the greatest thing ever invented.
Soap for the brains. She changes the channel and stares blankly at a man on a black and white screen. It takes a moment before she realizes that staring back at her is the charming, moustached, kindly face of WALTER ELIAS DISNEY  on The Wonderful World of Disney Show. Pamela raises an eyebrow--
Well, well-- There you are.
Don't worry! There's nothing wrong with your television set. This is a pixie bell, the sound is much too high for human ears. Tinkerbell flies into shot.
Oh there you are Tink! She covers Walt in fairy dust.
Off! That's how we deal with you.
Good morning Mrs!
It's not Mrs, it's-- Oh, why do I bother? We're just not going to get it right are we?
Hm?
Will it be the same driver every day?
 Yes ma'am! I'm all yours.
You say it like you're surprised. Like the sun is particular about whom it appears for. It seems you think that I am responsible for it's miraculous dawning every day. For goodness sake, it's California!
It certainly is! He gestures for her to get in.
 Madame. Pamela grimaces.
(as much to herself as
I would so much rather be accountable for the rain.
Oh, that's sad.
Sad is entirely the wrong emotion. I shan't bother explaining why;
 Zip!
Okey dokey.
The rain brings life!
So does the sun.
Be quiet!
Yes ma'am. Ralph starts the engine and drives away.
Pamela! Good morning!
It is so discomfiting to hear a perfect stranger use my first name. Mrs Travers. Please. The Sherman's look at each other. Uh oh.
I do apologize, Mrs Travers.
Co-script-writer. I shall certainly be having my say Mr. DiGraydi.
Gradi. Wonderful! I welcome it.
If indeed we ever sign off on a script. Bob and Dick flash each other a look. What the fu ?
Uh. Okay, so this is the rest of your team, Dick and Bob Sherman! Music and lyrics.
Poppins.
Who else?
Mary Poppins. Never ever just Mary.  A pleasure to meet you, though I fear we shan't be acquainted for too long.
Excuse me?
These books simply do not lend themselves to chirping and prancing. No. Certainly not a musical. Now, where is Mister Disney? I'd very much like to get this started and finished as briskly as is humanly possible.
Don?
Not a music--? If you'll point me in his direction?
Uh-- erm. Ha! We had planned a little tour of the studio for you
No thank you.
--Wanted to show the place off.
No one likes a show off. Pamela takes herself off in the direction of a building.
Mrs Trav-- it's a long way to-- Don hurries behind her, Bob looks like he is about to murder the woman and Dick is finding the whole thing incredibly amusing.
I am perfectly capable of walking. A couple of Disney characters  bounce up to the golf cart, waving brightly. Goofy opens his arms to Pamela for a hug and she recoils in horror.
Shoo! Go away! The characters stop bouncing and Di Gradi gives them a nod meaning `beat it'.
Ghastly. Bob and Dick Sherman are in shock.
 Would you let Mister Disney know I have arrived please? Dolly loses her smile at the terse tone, nods curtly and picks up the phone.
 She's here!
A word of advice Mrs Travers, if I may.
You may. Whether I heed it or not will be another matter entirely.
Wow. Uhm. It's just that he can't stand being called Mr Disney. We are all on a first name basis here.
Well, there ya are at last! Pamela gets up, smooths down her skirt, and makes her way serenely towards the man, who rushes down the corridor to greet her.
Oh my dear gal! Pamela is open mouthed.
You can't imagine how excited I am to finally meet you! Pamela doesn't know what to do with this amount of enthusiasm. She extends a formal hand before he manages to get her in an embrace.
Oh! He squeezes her tight and then lets go. Pamela struggles to compose herself, she hasn't been that close to a man in decades!
Hum-- ah. It's an honour, Mister Disney. Disney winces.
Walt, you gotta call me Walt, ya know. `Mister Disney' was my old man. There's a hint of something mournful in the way he says `old man.'
Come here! Come here! He links his arm through hers, much to her chagrin, and leads her into his interior office past an imposing floor to ceiling cabinet bursting with Academy Awards.
Tommie, say hi to the one and only P L Travers!
Hi there! It's so nice to-- But Pamela has already been whisked through to Disney's personal office.
Have a seat, sit down. He gestures to a comfy couch in the corner but Pamela takes a seat in front of Walt's desk instead, glancing at the sign above it: We Can Make Them Live. Walt perches on the edge of the desk, close to her, gazing at her.
Ya know, I can't believe it. P.L. Travers, right here, in my office, after all these years-- almost twenty of `em.  Twenty. Long. Years. Pamela narrows her eyes.
Wish ya coulda' seen me then Pam! As lean as a whippet I was! A race horse! Interestingly, she doesn't pull him up on using her first name and shortening it too!
But now, here you are. Look at you! I could eat you up!
That wouldn't be appropriate. He turns a photo of his daughters - Diane and Sharon - to face Pamela.
When Diane here was seven years old I-- can I get you a drink? Coffee? Soda?
A pot of tea would be most welc--
My imagination was caught on fire! And I mean ON FIRE! And those embers have burned ever since-- as you know.
I do. Twenty years!
Yes. Twenty. So you keep I've been asking, asking,
I got old asking. He sits back down on his desk.
What a charming story.
About my getting old?
About your daughters.
Yeah I suppose it is.  They're both women now. Gosh! Can you believe it?
Children grow up.
Now Pam, a man can't break a promise to his kids. No matter how long it takes to keep. No matter how long! You might've kept me dangling all this time but now we gotcha!
Gotcha indeed! Mister Disney, if you have dangled then it is at the end of a rope you have fashioned for yourself.
I was quite clear when you approached me the first time that she wasn't for sale and clear again when you approached me a year later and clear again when you approached me every annum for the subsequent 18 years. Honestly, I feel corralled, ensnared--
Pam, Pam, the last thing I want is to make you feel--
My name, if you please, is MRS Travers.
You see, I promised them. That's a fact. You got kids?
Well, that's very honourable of you
That's what being a daddy is all about right?
This movie isn't just going to make my kids happy. It's going to make ALL kids happy! You see my guys are gonna do things with it that are, well, are revolutionary. He's up again.
REVOLUTIONARY,Pam!
Pamela rubs her temples as she watches him fly about the room.
Mary Poppins will literally fly off the pages of your books! The door opens and Tommie comes in with the tea, Walt gestures for her to bring it to him.
Now imagine! This magical woman who has only lived in your head, you'll be able to meet her, speak to her, hear her sing. Tommie places the tray on Walt's desk and leaves the room. Walt picks up the tea pot.
Yes, this singing, I am glad you've come to that. (addressing his tea
Milk first! Walt puts the pot down immediately like a scolded child and picks up the milk jug, he pours.
That's right. Now the tea-- He picks up the pot again and pours the tea.
And a spoonful of sugar. He stirs.
You don't mean for this film to be a musical?
No.
No?
No. She takes a sip, he waits anxiously to see if his tea is any good.
Not bad. No, Mister Disney, Mary Poppins does not sing.
Oh yes she does!
When?
In your books!
Those aren't songs! They're recitations. She is not a giddy woman, she does not jig! Singing is frivolous and wholly unnecessary for a governess, an educatress. No. It would just ruin it. Walt is baffled. He takes a sip of tea, it's disgusting, he spits it back into his cup surreptitiously, then coughs loudly. Pamela's jaw drops.
I won't have her turned into one of your silly cartoons. Walt takes a sharp breath on `silly' and then plasters the smile back on.
Tell ya what. You just listen to what my Sherman boys have come up with and if they don't knock your socks off then I'm the King of England. Pamela rolls her eyes.
If you're the King of England then you shan't exist and knowing the little of you I do; I shouldn't think you would like that very much.
Bet you would. She smirks, as does he.
Greensleeves huh?
Come to think of it. That's a song I wouldn't object to.
Greensleeves.
Yes. He's not sure if she's playing with him.
Pam, I want you to know that the last thing I would do, the very last thing, is tarnish a story I have cherished. He moves closer to her, takes her hand, she needs it for her teacup, it's awkward.
 The pages are worn down to tissue, dog eared and falling out. I have poured over them gripped, tormented. Because I love Mary Poppins, you got to share her with me. Pamela is torn between finding Disney captivating and totally barking.
A course nothing happens without your say so. Absolutely Nothing.
Quite right. She extricates her hand.
It's all in the rights agreement. As approved by your agent, Dermot.
Diarmuid.
Darmitt. Disney hands the rights agreement and a pen to her, Pamela takes it without looking and folds it up.
 A live action film. No animation.
Live action.
I'd like that on tape.
Hm?
Your promise-- and all the discussions we have here-- on tape.
Tape you say. She pops the rights document in her bag. Walt's joviality, his bright demeanour, vanishes in a split second.
Ah there you are.
I understand. I do.
Well then! She stands up and smooths down her skirt.
Shall we begin? He holds out his hand for her to shake.
Let's make something wonderful. She leaves his hand hanging in mid air.
Let's see if that's at all possible. Pamela gets up, smooths down her skirt, snorts at a picture of Disney in a silly hat astride a model train and purposefully strides out of the room, a smile across her face that Disney does not see.
It's rather late-- Travers continues to play.
Biddy and Moya are already asleep. Travers takes the pipe from his lips and sighs.
Ginty. He kisses her cheek and gently lifts her from his lap.
Good night father.
Good night dear. Margaret strokes her hand over Ginty's hair as the little girl slips into the house but hovers unseen by the door, watching her parents. Travers pats his knee and Margaret perches on it.
I'll make us a good life.
Look at the stars.
(peering around a vase at
What is all this jollification?
We have a whole script to get through. It's gonna be a long day Mrs T. She shoots him dead with a killer stare.
--ravers.
We could save a starving country with benefaction from this room alone! Ugh, It's so vulgar. She gets up and moves the giant bouquet of flowers off the table and plops it on top of Dick's piano. Bob moves it from the piano to the floor.
And these are beautiful blooms butchered for our visual and nasal enjoyment when we could have just as easily gone to the window, looked out and gazed upon them happily minding their own business and very much still alive. Bob hasn't a clue what to say. Pamela smoothes down her skirt and re-takes her seat. Everybody waits. Pamela flicks her eyes at the tape recorder which Don duly turns on.
Let us begin. She perches her glasses on her nose and raises an eyebrow at the cover of her script - "Walt Disney's Mary Poppins."
Hm. A rustling of papers and one or two uneasy glances as the men, too, open their scripts.
taking place outside.
Ah, I see, an abbreviation.
No, No, Mrs Travers please go ahead.
Yes, I do think it's best. I've the most practise. Readings of my books you know? Anyway--
Yes. That's good, that can stay.
--Though I do think we should say number 17, instead of just 17, yes? It's proper.
I will see it. She makes a note in her script and looks to the others who are dumbstruck.
Write it down, write it down, chop chop. Don makes the note and is ready to move on but Pamela is staring at Dick and Bob. They dutifully pick up their pencils and note their scripts too.
Is that on the tape? Don glances towards the swirling tape recorder and nods.
Yes.
Good-- onwards. They are interrupted by DOLLY carrying a new tray of refreshments.
I'm sorry to interrupt.
Is this a joke?
Excuse me?
Do you think you are a comedienne?
I'm sorry I don't understand. Dolly gingerly places the tray on the table and hovers, distributing fruit and biscuits within reachable distance.
Unbelievable. Pamela shakes her head but decides to ignore Dolly and carry on.
Scene One. Exterior. Number 17 Cherry Tree Lane. London. Day.
Bert, a one-man band--  The rumour is that this is to be your Mister Van Dyke is it?
We do hope so!
Hmmm, we'll see about that. He's totally wrong, totally and utterly.
Dick is one of the greats!
Dick Van Dyke? Robert, my dear, Olivier is one of the greats, Burton, Guinness - greats without question. (speaking loudly into the
I can assure you Dick Van Dyke is not.  Bert, a one-man band plays to a small gathering outside the gates to the park.
 You can do Bert.
 Thank you.
--extemporized and thought up before your very eyes! Alright, here we go-- Dick begins to play and sing, he pounds the keys with gusto, smiling away, acting it out with all his heart and soul, almost unable to contain himself with glee. Bob occasionally joins in for a word or two but is much more serious, eyeing Travers for her every reaction.
"responstable."
Now, how does that sound?
No no no no no no no. Dolly winces on everyone's behalf and leaves the room.
Responstable is not a word.
Well, un-make it up. Dick quickly hides the next set of sheet music entitled:
I've a thought! I've always liked Ta Ra Ra Boom De Ay. Now, that would be a wonderful song for the film! Oh! And Admiral Boom could sing it! Do you see? Dick's fingers crunch the piano keys.
Irresponstable.
A tiny park, about half a metre square - it has grass, tiny trees made from flowers, a small hole filled with water for a pond, park benches made with twigs and miniature wooden clothes-peg people. Ginty puts the finishing touches to the bandstand and sits back, staring in wonder. The moment is broken with the sound of hooves as her father appears, atop his horse.
Ahhh, there's my girl. The horse moves up to her.
That's it Albert. Give Ginty a smooch. There's a good boy, give her a little smooch. The velvety muzzle of the horse "smooches" Ginty's neck and ear as Travers climbs down from the nag.
Poor old Albert; he's your secret uncle you know? But a miserable, horrid witch turned him into a nag.
Why did she do that?!
Because she hated the sound of his laugh.
Poor Uncle Albert! How can we fix him?
We have to teach the witch how to be happy again.
How?
I'm not quite sure darling.
And the young lie long and dream in
Of the matching of ribbons for bosom and head. Travers sighs, let's the words ring in his ears, touches the end of daughter's nose.
Do you want to know what it feels like to fly Ginty? She nods. He hauls himself onto Albert, leans down and swings Ginty up so she is facing him.
You trust me? She nods and wraps her arms around him looking backwards over his shoulder. He grips her firmly around the waist and she spreads her arms.
Gee up, Albert. Yah! Travers kicks the horse into a trot, then into a canter, he points a finger in the air as if shooting for the stars.
Yah! Ginty squeals with delight.
Nobody walks.
Beautiful ain't it?
(refusing him the
If you like that sort of thing.
I do.
We do find it helps to have a visual. It's fun! She stops in front of a sketch of the Banks house.
No, no, no. Goodness no.
No?
The Banks house doesn't look like that! My house is a terraced house with a pink door, white bricked with a crack in the gable. The window frames are lead-lined and the flower boxes grow pink nasturtiums to go with the pink
(gesturing to the tape
Did we get that? (to herself, slightly
Oh dear, it's all a big mistake. It's all wrong.
It's all wrong?
It's too grand! The Banks family - they're normal, everyday sort of people. This isn't normal. It isn't everyday! They're not aristocrats!
Interesting. Don allows a tiny smile. She is right. Pamela lingers over a picture of the parrot head umbrella, a split second of something like recognition on her face and then she simply moves on.
Um-- yeah?
Why in the world have you made Mrs Banks a silly suffragette?
I wonder if Emmeline P would agree with that adjective--
Quite possibly, looking back. Dick mouths `oh my god!'
It does seem strange that Mrs Banks allows her children to spend all of their time with the nanny when she has no job to speak of--
Are you calling Mrs Banks neglectful?
Yep.
No! Of course not! We just felt that if she had a job it would go some way to explaining--
Being a mother is a job. A very difficult job and one that not everybody is up to, that not everybody should have taken on in the first place! The boys see that Pamela is talking about something meaningful to her and they begin to soften for a brief moment, until--
I will NOT have her called Cynthia! Absolutely not. It feels unlucky. Dick makes a curly wurly cuckoo sign at Bob.
No it should be something warm, a bit sexy. They all nearly choke at the word `sexy' coming out of her mouth.
How about Mavis?
Sybil?
Sure.
Prudence?
Gwendolyn?
Great.
Winifred!
I could go with Winifred.
Yes, that's because it's very good. She comes to the next sketch and stops abruptly in front of it, a split second of utter confusion crosses her face.
This isn't Mr Banks? She turns to face Don and the boys.
This isn't him.
Ahm, yeah, that's him--
He has a set of moustaches!
In the books he--
I told the illustrator I didn't like the facial hair but she chose to ignore me. This is MY film and this time around I shall have MY way.
 Mrs Travers, it was a specific request, from Walt. Pamela doesn't acknowledge that Dolly has spoken; Dolly flushes.
 Why? Everyone shrugs, they don't know why.
He didn't, he doesn't, Mr Banks is clean shaven! Bob buries his face in his hands and let's out a long, loud, unashamed moan.
Does it mattterrrrrrr?!
Bob, Bob, Bob-- Pamela stares at Bob.
You can wait outside! She points at the door, ordering him out with her finger. Bob is literally stunned. Dick stifles a laugh.
I shan't say it again Robert. Bob storms out of the room (as fast as his limp and cane will allow him) slamming the door and from behind it we hear:
He got shot.
Hardly surprising. Pamela smiles sweetly.
Can I expect anymore drama from anyone else?
Why do you do that?
For you my dear! (he flicks the blade in the air like a swordsman) Swish! Which kind of kisses do you prefer Gintamina? Swoosh! Scratchy ones or silky ones?
Swish. And again.
Swoosh.
Stop! Stop! Stop! What on earth are you talking about? Supercali--? Supercali-- or whatever the infernal thing is!
It's something to say when you don't know what to say!
Well I always know what to say. The slamming of a piano lid. Dolly pushes the door open with her foot.
If you so much as step one foot in here with that tray I shall scream! One cannot live on cake alone!
Hit me with it.
She has a lot of-- ideas.
Ya? What kind of ideas?
About how she, uh, sees things.
And just how does she `see' things? Dolly sighs and pulls out a note pad.
Okay that'll work.
She won't approve Dick Van Dyke. Walt laughs, Dolly allows herself a little giggle too.
The sketches of the Banks house make it look too opulent, there must be no hint of romance between Mary Poppins and Bert, she wants to know why Mr Banks has been given a moustache, the--
I asked for that.
Yes. They did tell her but she wants to know why.
Because I asked for it.
Right. Of course. Uh-- the tape measure Mary Poppins uses to record Jane and Micheal's height must be a roll tape, not a ruler, we must add gravi-- gravitas, she says.
Gahd! Anything else?
She only wants green vegetables and broth, I don't know what that is but she wants it in the room from now on and oh! She doesn't want the colour red in the film-- at all.
I've simply gone off the colour. Their mouths are agape.
You did say I was to have final say did you not?
We can't make the film without the colour red! It's set in London for pete's sake.
And?
There's buses and mail boxes and guards uniforms-- heck! The British flag! Pamela, I'm not sure why
I understand your predicament Mr Disney, I do. I just-- hm-- I don't know what it is, I'm just suddenly very anti-red. I shan't be wearing it ever again. Disney comes and sits on the table in front of Pam and locks eyes with her.
Is this a test Pam? Are you requiring proof of how badly I wanna make you happy so that we can create this beautiful thing together? Pamela averts her eyes for a split second, embarrassed about `creating something beautiful' with Walt, but quickly recovers and eyeballs him right back.
I took you at your word Mr Disney and it seems my first stipulation has been denied. There will be many more, so-- perhaps we should just call it quits and I should hand you back these? She takes the rights agreement out of her bag and offers it to him. Disney smiles at Pamela.
Alright. No red in the film. Pamela glances at the tape recorder.
What?!
Walt? Don and the Shermans can't believe he has given in! Disney strides out of the room.
He doesn't have the rights-- All three turn their heads to turn to her.
Quite. Pamela smiles a broad satisfied smile at the boys, smooths down her skirt and opens the script.
Now, If you're insisting upon this musicality you feel is SO important for my film then I suggest I hear one of your ditties. No one is in the mood to sing for her.
I shall keep an open mind!
Nanny?
Yeah, do nanny. Dick begins to play--
If you want this choice position, No no! They can't make deman-- have a cheery disposition--
No warts! Who in the world put that in?!
Play games, all sorts! Hm.
You must be kind, you must be Well of all the ridiculous--!
very sweet and fairly pretty
Take us on outings, give us Completely defeats the--
Sing songs, bring sweets No sweets!
Never be cross or cruel Who would give a child cast-- Never give us castor oil or ?
Love us as a son and daughter
And never smell of barley What in the world does water smelling of barley water have to do with anything?
You wrote that in your book! She wrote that in her--!
Yeah, I think--
You can't say that-- If you won't scold and
We will never give you cause Hate is too strong a wor-- to hate us--
We won't hide your spectacles so you cant see Nobody's listening to me!
Put toads in your bed-- Ridiculous!
Or pepper in your tea No.
Hurry, Nanny!
Sincerely, Jane and Michael Banks: Jane and Michael Banks.
Well I simply don't know what to say. That's the worst song I've ever heard.
Alright.
Pamela sits on a bench, her feet tucked together, her arms clasped around her body, her face to the sky. She sits perfectly still until the limo pulls up and Ralph gets out, patiently waiting beside the car so as not to disturb her. Pamela, opens her eyes and Ralph nods hello. He opens the back door for her and she climbs in.
Tommie! Tommie appears in his office with a glass and hands it to Walt.
Scotch Mist.
What do you think?
What do I think I-- what?
You're a woman.
That's a canny observation Walt.
What am I missing?
You think the female of the species has some kind of psychic insight when it comes to others of her kind? Walt continues to stare out of the window.
We don't.
Good afternoon Ma'am. What can I fix you?
A pot of tea.
Sure thing. Pamela looks around at the other women in the bar, all glamorous, coiffured, very different to the practical Mrs Travers. The tea pot arrives.
Thank you. Tea is a balm for the soul don't you agree? But the barman has already moved on to another patron. Time moves swiftly, the teapot is drained, the customers come and go. The barman talks with another customer further along the bar. Nobody notices Pamela. In this setting she looks like a little old lady, awkwardly perched on a stool, staring into her empty cup.
Thank you. A bank worker tips his hat to the gentleman.
Good afternoon Mr Belhatchett. Cashiers look up from their posts and nod courteously. Ginty and RANDOLPH BELHATCHETT are startled for a second by a loud crash. Their eyes flit to the glass door of Travers' office. The etching on the glass reads:
And Mr Belhatchett has complained that I opened his stupid bank five minutes late has he? Hahaaa!  Time's Money, Goff, y'know! Time's money my man! The clerk laughs nervously.
Bell Hatchett! Beautiful hatchet. That's what it means. And I suppose if the poor dumb lambs on his downs, are five minutes late with their calving, or they don't drop dead on schedule when he wants a roast, he takes to them with the business end of his beautiful hatchet. Travers wields a glinting letter opener in the air, stabbing piles of papers, filing cabinets, desks.
There, whack! That'll teach you for not dropping your bairns on schedule. Whack! Whack! Whack! Travers looks at the figure standing outside his door and his eyes widen.
Whack. Whoops!  Mr Belhatchett! Allow me to-- Travers pushes the door open to reveal Ginty at his side and is felled.
Ginty!
I want you gone. All eyes fall upon the little girl whom everyone seems to have forgotten. Travers is overcome with embarrassment and guilt.
Sweet thing! What are you doing here? Ginty looks up at Belhatchett and the manager.
You said today was--
Ice cream day! Yes! I did! What kind of father am I?
Ah, yes it does seem that--
If you can't straighten up for your own sake. Do it for your daughter.  Irresponsible. Travers holds out his arms to Ginty and she runs into them.
Ice cream is so rare because it only comes from Siberian cows. Did you know that?!
We share a Celtic soul, you and I. This world is just an illusion, Ginty old girl. As long as we hold that thought dear, they can't break us. Money, money, money. Don't you buy into it Ginty! It'll bite you on the bot! How did we end up here eh? Look at it. Barren. Breathless. Get as far away from this place as possible my love. Find yourself a patch of green.
I meant heartless. I'm afraid a jumper wouldn't suffice. It's bringing up these-- it's so hot and stuffy I feel like I am being attacked. These odd dreams, like my subconscious is after me. Punishing me for entertaining the idea that I might hand her over. I am at war with myself Mr Russell.
Serves me right. Money, money, money. Bit me on the bot. Her eyes stray to the big Mickey Mouse. She drags it onto the bed with her and climbs back under the covers, clinging onto the stuffed toy for comfort.
It's gotta be like a slogan!
Her prescription for life.
Yeah! Yes! A stitch in time!
An apple a day.
 Time and tide wait for--
Sugar!
Sugar?
What? That's not--
Jeff had vaccination day at school yesterday.
Ouch.
No ouch.
No ouch?
Sugar. They put it in a cube.
Medicine in sugar?
Cube's an odd word.
Spoonful? Dick throws his hands and legs in the air almost falling off his stool!
May I walk with you?
I'm sure your country doesn't have any laws about sharing a pavement. As they walk the sound of the piano filters out of the rehearsal room window and down onto the lot.
Go back to the chorus.
Wait! WAIT! She always does what's unexpected. She goes UP the bannisters. Dick is confused.
So go up. Dick plays a high note.
Try B. He takes a pencil from behind his ear and marks Dick's sheet music. Dick immediately begins finding the tune on the piano
Just a spoonful of sugar helps the medicine go down. Don looks up from his sketching.
Yes! The sound of Walt's cough signals his imminent arrival.
Man is in the forest. Pamela and Walt enter the room.
It's just a chorus--
Tell us what you think. He knows dum dum Will help dum dum dum duuuum! Bob whistles what will end up being the Robin's part of the song.
We'll work out the other lyrics.
You see how it goes up on the word down?
On the word down it goes up!
It's ironic.
Is it?
Forget ironic, it's iconic. Pamela rolls her eyes.
I won't be able to stop singing that for weeks!
It seems enormously patronising to me. The very sort of annoying tune you would have playing in your themed park I daresay. All giddy and carefree, encouraging children to face the world unarmed. All they need is a spoon and some sugar and a brain full of fluff and they're equipped with life's tools. Wonderful! Dick is completely deflated.
What's your point Pam?
MRS Travers! My point is that, unlike yourself, Mary Poppins is the very enemy of sentiment and whimsy. She is truthful, she doesn't sugar coat the darkness in the world that these children will eventually come to know. She prepares them for it, she deals in honesty. One must clean one's room; it won't magically do it itself! She waves the script in the air.
This whole script is flim flam! Where is its reality? Where is its heart, where is the gravitas? She opens a window and flings the script out.
No weight Mister Disney! See? Dick, Don and Bob look out of the window as the pages flutter downwards and spread themselves over the Disney lot.
No whimsy or sentiment says the woman who sends a flying nanny with a talking umbrella to save the children.
You think Mary Poppins is saving the children Mr Disney? Pamela sighs, shakes her head.
Oh dear.
There there. Shush shush now-- Ginty and Biddy run in and out of the sheets, chasing a large hen that squawks and flaps its wings trying to escape the girls.
 If you could just--
Father! She runs at him and swings her high into the air with one arm, catching Biddy with the other.
What a lovely surprise! Did you finish early?
I couldn't stop thinking about my beautiful girls on this beautiful day in this beautiful place and I thought to hell with it!  And what do we say about beauty ladies?
A thing of beauty is a joy forever!
Buts are for goats my love! He dips her and smooches her.
 I'll put in extra hours tomorrow.
The hen got out and we've been trying to catch her! Travers spies the clucking demon.
That's no hen! That's Aunt Ellie, your mother's horrendiferous sister!
Really?!
Not the aunt!
East Wind! Travers throws his jacket to the ground and begins to chase the hen, tearing through the clean sheets and treading them into the ground.
Oh!
I'll wash them again my love! Margaret look at the dirty sheets and shrugs. The kids run after their father squealing and giggling as the poor little hen runs for its life. Even the dog joins in, Margaret goes to retrieve the discarded jacket and sees a whisky bottle protruding from the inside pocket, she slips it back inside - out of sight, out of mind.
Go Sergeant Ginty! Fell the beast! Ginty dives on the hapless bird, who pecks her soundly and scarpers. It's chaos. Travers, the girls, the dog and the evasive hen running into each other, falling over each other, cursing and laughing.
Aunt Ellie!
Oh she's a foul fowl!
--darling, it's just that um-- a
--Meg sweet, I had a throat scratch-
--the bank is getting you down again? Perhaps my sister--
God no! No. I can endure. I will endure. For the girl's sake-- Just, please-- not Ellie.
Oh my dear-- Travers weeps and Ginty closes her eyes, buries her little face in the hens feathers.
All around the cathedral the saints and apostles look down as she sells her wares Walt is dragged from his thoughts and gets up to follow the sound.
Although you can't see it you know they are smiling Each time someone shows that he
Though her words are simple and few listen, listen, she's calling to
"Feed the birds, tuppence a bag tuppence, tuppence, tuppence a bag."
That'll work. Dick nods, still playing. Walt makes his way to the piano, sighs, sits next to Dick on the stool.
She's going to say no isn't she?
A man has dreams of walking with
To carve his niche in the edifice
Walt laughs out loud, he sings with Dick reading the lyrics from the music sheet.
Then came this person, with chaos in her wake And now my life's ambitions go with one fell blow It's quite a bitter pill to take.
Inspired by someone we know?
She might surprise us all.
She won't.
You don't know that.
I do. I know it, I know it only too well.
He was this big terrifying New York producer and I was just a kid from Missouri with a sketch of Mickey but-- it woulda' killed me to give him up. Walt peers down at the sleeping Bob.
Honest to god killed me. That mouse, he's family.
The world is an illusion Ginty.
Ahh the Countess Mary Sparklestick! Pray tell me, what are you concentrating so hard on?
I am laying eggs!
Really!? Fabulous!
Today I am a hen.
Indeed! I can see the feathers sprouting as we speak! Margaret steps out onto the veranda, takes one look at her husband and knows he is drunk.
Helen Goff, would you lay the table for supper please?
I'm not Helen!
I need--
She's laying!
(her face contorts in
I'm sorry! She goes back indoors and slams the door behind her. Ginty gets up to go indoors and Travers catches her by the arm. He swallows hard, eyes welling.
(urgent, his voice
Don't you ever stop dreaming Ginty my love. You can be anyone you want to be. Anyone.
I want to be like you.
Don't.
Ya alright Mrs? Pamela doesn't even hear him.
Helen Goff? Wake up dear. You want your banner to be ready for the fair don't you? Ginty turns back to her painting - her banner reads:
Around the words Ginty is painting a gorgeous carousel with stunning horses, one of which is white with roses on its bridal.
Mrs Brill said Father's presenting the medals.
 He is indeed! On behalf of the bank.
Mrs Travers? Again, she doesn't hear.
Mrs Travers? Pamela looks at Don.
We were just saying that we'd like to play you the song in the bank.
 So you have tuppence? May I be permitted to see it? (changing voice to Michael
No, I want it to feed the birds!  Fiddlesticks boy! Feed the birds and what've you got?
Fat birds!
(singing more sotto than
But! If you invest your tuppence wisely in the bank
Safe and sound-- A small stage and dais stand central of the event over which a large sign reads:
Soon that tuppence safely invested in the bank will compound-- The Allora townsfolk are out in force. Ginty walks with her family. Her father attempting to memorise speech notes as they pass through the crowds.
And you'll achieve that sense of
Margaret nudges him as Randolph Belhatchett and his family walk past.
 Mr Belhatchett. Randolph looks at Travers, then at Travers shaking hands, his family nod and move on. Margaret looks upset by this.
As your affluence expands-- Travers buys two immense sticks of fairy floss and hands them to Ginty and Biddy.
Travers, Biddy's stomach--
Oh, for Gods' sake, Meg, stop whinnying like an old nag will you? Margaret is aghast at being spoken to like that in public but she keep her mouth shut. Ginty notices Travers eyes stray towards the refreshments tent.
Meet you there in a blink of an eye!
Come on Biddy.
Indeed, a published poet-- She takes a deep breath and moves forward, grabs Travers hand.
Father, come and look. Biddy's dancing.
In a moment, my princess. I'm talking.
But she's-- she really wants you to watch, Dad. You'll miss it.
Not now Biddy!
I'm Ginty.
Ginty! Shoo! Devastated, Ginty doesn't know what to do, she pulls at his shirt sleeve again.
You said don't give up. A waiter approaches and takes her by the arm, leading her away.
Excuse me, Miss. It's gentlemen only in this section of the tent. I think you'll be more comfortable at the far end.
Good afternoon, distinguished guests, our biggest supporter Mr Randolph Belhatchett and his lovely wife, ladies and gentlemen, boys and girls! Randolph looks at Travers with displeasure and then at one of the bank staff.
Why is he speaking for the bank?
He's the manager.
I'm honoured to be here on behalf of the Belhatchett Bank of Australia. Shortly, it will be my very pleasant duty to present the awards to our young performers. But before I begin, I'd like to say a very few words to our very youngest citizens about the role of the - er, the Bank in our community. Ginty allows herself to breathe. So far, so good.
He's using too many `verys'. He always says `very' too much when
She can't say it. Ginty takes her mother's hand but Margaret pushes the hand away.
 Very well, my boy, give me the
When you deposit tuppence in a bank account,
Soon you'll see that it blooms into credit of a generous amount
And you'll achieve that sense And you'll achieve that sense of stature of stature As your influence expands as your influence expands To the high financial strata To the high financial strata That established credit now That established credit now
You can purchase first and second
Think of the foreclosures! Bonds! Chattels! Dividends! Shares!
Bankruptcies! Debtor sales! Opportunities! All manner of private enterprise! Shipyards! The Mercantile! Collieries! Tanneries! Incorporations! Amalgamations! Banks!
 While stand the banks of England. England stands!
Uhmm. Thank you kindly. Thanking you. Now-- what, what am I doing next? Oh! It's a marvellous idea to encourage children to open accounts. My daughter, the Princess Ginty-- she's-- uh.  How old are you? Come up here. Ginty - what? Me? Ginty glances to her mother and then, on trembling legs, makes her way forward and up the stairs onto the dais. Margaret watches, growing uneasy.
Ginty has a bank account-- and that's good. Give her a drink! The audience is shocked.
I shall return in just a moment to present the awards. But right now I must-- relieve myself. Gasps from the audience. Margaret - dying.
Give us your shoulder, Ginty, will you? I'm busting. There's a good girl. Father and daughter walk towards the edge of the stage, Travers leaning on Ginty's shoulder. The shameful glare of Allora burning into them.
When fall the banks of England, England falls! Travers somehow loses his footing before reaching the steps and topples off the stage. There's an audible, horrible snap as he lands in an undignified pile. But, despite his ugly injury, Travers cannot stop laughing.
I love it!
You think Walt's gonna like it? Pamela takes a last look at the Mr Banks picture and spins around viciously.
Why did you have to make him so cruel? The boys jubilance is halted immediately.
He was not a monster!
Who are we talking about? I'm confused.
You all have children yes?
Yes.
Yep. Yes.
And do those children write you letters, make drawings for you?
Of course.
Mine like to make folded paper--
 And would you tear up those gifts? In front of them?! Silence. They know where this is going.
It's a dreadful thing to do! I don't understand! Why must father tear up the advertisement his children have written and throw it in the fireplace!? Why won't he mend their kite? Why have you made him so unspeakably awful?
I can't bear it.
The boys are shocked at the level of upset.
Please don't-- I'll feel like I let him down again-- She leaves the room, head hung.
I don't suppose there's any more you can give me for the pain? The doctor shakes his head at Travers wanton greed for more.
 When will enough be enough Travers?
I've brought you something father.
Be a darling Ginty my old pal! Help father out won't you? Ginty is wary.
In my washroom-- there's a bottle of medicine that father needs--
Mother took it away. Travers slams his fist on the bed, scaring Ginty.
Godammit! Nervous, hopeful, Ginty withdraws a folded sheet of paper from her pocket.
I wrote a poem for you. It - it won first prize, at school. Travers takes the page, tries to hold it steady in his shaking hand.
Would you like me to read it to you? The agony as Ginty watches the shaking hand. Finally, the humiliation is too much for Travers. He scans the page rapidly and lowers his hand.
It's hardly Yeats, is it? Ginty is devastated. But more than this there's a hardening in her small face, a sense of disillusionment that so far she's held in check. Here are the first signs of the Pamela to come.
Mrs Travers! He stops, recognizing she doesn't need to be followed.
Mrs? Pamela looks up, her eyes are red rimmed but she's not crying.
I, uh, brought you a tea. He hands her the tea in a takeaway cup.
It's blasphemy to drink tea from a paper cup. Ralph, shifts nervously from foot to foot. He's not quite sure what to say to her or why he brought the tea. Pamela puts the tea down and continues to fiddle with bits and pieces of twig and bloom that she's plucking from the area around her.
Everything okay Ma'am? Would you like me to drive you home?
All the way to England? Yes, please. Ralph lowers himself onto his haunches.
You got family back there Mrs?
You're an impertinent man you know? You ask an awful lot of questions that have no relevance to you being able to carry out your duties.
And you have no barometer. Ralph is confused.
Let us say that I haven't family who'd notice whether I was halfway across the world or sitting in my living room. She pulls a thread from the hem of her skirt, ties two twigs together.
Ralph sees that she has a little collection of things, he looks around for some more. Pamela takes a stick and digs a small line through the grass then hands it to him.
Make a little furrow, there. Ralph dutifully does as he's told, looking over his shoulder for fear of being caught digging holes in Disney soil. Ralph pokes the ground, thinking.
I gotta kid.
Well, most people do.
Jane-- she's got all kinds of troubles. Pamela raises an eyebrow.
Handicapped you know? Myelitis-- transverse.
Now look. She takes the lid, twigs now sticking out of the poked holes and places it in the centre of what we now see is one of Pamela's tiny parks, she gently rest a leaf on the twig struts forming a roof.
It's a band stand. She takes the cup of tea and gently pours the steaming liquid into Ralph's trench, which runs all the way around the park.
A river!
Lake.
Wouldn't that be nice?
Mother?
I want you to take care of the children. Ginty is groggy, she doesn't understand.
Watch over them. Ginty sits up.
I know you love your father more. But one day you'll understand.
What? Margaret leaves the room and Ginty is straight out of bed following her. Behind, in the room, Moya has awoken and is crying.
Mother! She runs out into the yard but stops as she hears Biddy.
Ginty! Ginty turns back to the house and then back towards her mother but Margaret has disappeared into the darkness.
Where's ma?
Once upon a time there were three little girls alone in a house. They were frightened of the big wide world just outside the door. She takes them through the hallway, stopping momentarily outside the door to her fathers bedroom. It is slightly ajar and he looks incredibly frail and delirious.
They were so afraid. She moves forward, her eyes flit to the front door, expecting her mother to be standing there any minute but there is nothing.
But the stars were guarding them, they glittered as they spoke "We shall send a guide to show them the way to the magical ladder which will bring them all the way up to
And who do you think those sparkling messengers sent? Who was it that came flying through the starry, starry sky to carry us up to see them? Ginty wraps Moya in a blanket and puts her in Biddy's arms.
An elf?
Their old Uncle Albert of course!  Stay right here, be good-- Ginty climbs atop the horse.
Are you going to the sky?
I'm going to find the end of the story so I can bring it back for you!
Is it happy?
Sometimes a person we love, through no fault of his own, can't see past the end of his nose.
It's time to go home, ma. She reaches out her hand--
 Pam!
Callin' to check up on you.
Are you a doctor?
Hm?
Check ups are for medical practitioners no?
Pam, are you always so battle ready? P.L. Travers in her breast plate and chain mail, sword up in the air and off with your head!
What can I do for you Mister Disney?
Please, I beg of you, please please call me Walt.
Walt-- er.
I heard things didn't go so well today.
They went as well as they've gone every other day that I've been here. I don't recall `special' phone calls from you on any of those other evenings.
What's this all about Pam? Really? Silence.
I'm wondering what I have to do to make you happy.
Ha!
Aren't you wondering that too? Silence.
 You know, you've never been to Disneyland! It's the happiest place on Earth! (shouting away from the
Tommie! Cancel my morning tomorrow. I'm taking a ride with my favorite author!
I cannot tell you how uninterested, no, positively sickened I am at the thought of going to see your dollar printing machine Mr-- Walter. She notices Mickey's innocent eyes staring at her and gently turns his face away.
Oh come on! When does anybody get to go to Disneyland with Walt Disney himself?!
Disappointments are to the soul what the thunderstorm is to the air. Walt slams the phone down. Pamela stares at it in shock!
Hello? Hello? He hung up! I'm! I! I can't believe he hung up! Walt leans back in his chair and grins, Tommie enters.
I'm not a violent man Tommie but if Mrs P.L. Travers were to get hit by a large truck I-- (he doesn't allow himself
Okay boys. We gotta fix this.
Oh my! And then a new voice, clear as a crystal bell.
Margaret, my poor child. I simply had to come. We must fix this. Travers eyes spring wide open in horror.
The Aunt.
Now, I've brought every new fangled treatment available in Sydney. Biddy is open mouthed.
Close your mouth please Biddy, we are not a codfish.  I spy a multitude of jobs to be done!
They've been so worried-- I've--
Do stop babbling nonsense! I'm here now and I shall fix everything.
--tincture of horseradish--
EMPTY_LINE
I thought I had made it quite clear you were to begin helping. Ellie claps her hands together.
Spit spot!
Where are we--? This isn't the way.
Change of venue this morning apparently.
(realizing where she's
Ugh.
I was thinking about our-- tea party?
I'm sure I don't know what you're--
Little park? I haven't a clue what you're talking about.
Concentrate on the road. Always chitter chattering!
Oh! Isn't that nice? Holy mackerel! Wowzers. Never met him myself but there he is! Right there. Real. Living, breathing. Oh boy!
Welcome to the Magic Kingdom! Pamela steps out of the car and her eyes nearly pop out of her head with brightness of the place, unbelievable colour and excitement.
Is it all like this? Pamela pops a headache pill.
Yup! Isn't it wonderful? Ralph hovers at the car, filling his eyeballs with as much Walt Disney as he can get before he has to drive away.
Do you always get everything you want Walter?
Pretty much!
With the exception to the rights to my books of course!
War ain't over yet Pam! Walt takes Pamela by the arm and leads her through the gates and a murmur goes through the crowds as they gawp. A YOUNG WOMAN breaks free and rushes up to Walt.
I love you so much! Can I--? She proffers a pen and paper but Walt is prepared, he takes a signed postcard with his face on it from his top pocket and hands it to the woman.
In Adventureland there is a tree-- this is a fun fact. A titbit.
Tidbit.
Gosh.
And they said only God could make a tree! Pamela rolls her eyes. There is a protracted silence as they walk, both encompassed by their own thoughts. The sunshine, the joyful crowds just background colour. They pass by a store front and Walt glances up at the window. It reads: Elias Disney Contractor Est. 1895. Pamela notices the look but doesn't say anything.
Where did she come from?
Who?
I think you know who.
She flew in through the window one day.
Through the window huh? Pamela nods curtly.
It's just that easy isn't it Mrs Travers? He sees right through her.
I know you don't wanna be here so I'm gonna take you to one ride-- my favourite amusement and then I'll set you free. Way ahead of them the carousel spins in the distance.
Mrs Travers, I would be honoured if you would ride Jingles. She's Mrs Disney's favourite horse. He escorts Pamela to a beautiful white horse, roses on it's bridal.
No thank you. I'm happy to watch.
No greater joy than that seen through the eyes of a child. Pamela looks at the children climbing onto the carousel.
There's a child in us all.
Maybe in you Mister Disney, but certainly not I.
Get on the horse Pamela! Pamela sighs and allows Walt to help her onto the horse.
When we first met, you said to me `they're family.'
I said what?
Mary Poppins, the Banks's, they're family.
You brought me all the way out here to tell me that?
No. I brought you all the way out here for monetary gain. Had a wager with the boys that I couldn't get you on a ride. I win! He clambers onto his own horse, gestures to the ride controller and off they go! Pamela gently bobs up and down, Walt waves to her and she sees the unbridled thrill from the child in Mister Disney spilling out. The tiniest, tiniest of smiles threatens to surface on her lips as he points a finger in the air as if shooting for the stars.
Yah!
Well begun, is half done! His face softens as his hazy gaze falls upon Ginty, outside the window, sweeping. Their eyes meet for a brief moment, an unspoken understanding of what is to come, before his close with tiredness.
Good morning Mrs Travers! She looks at the new arrangement of the room.
What horrors have you in store for my beautiful characters today, hm? Bob clenches a fist but Dick gives him a look that says: keep calm.
Now, Mrs Travers you sit here. He ushers her to a chair facing the centre of the room. He hands pages to Bob and pages to Dolly. Don and Dolly drop to their knees so that they are half the height of Bob. Pamela raises an eyebrow.
We thought about what you said Mrs Travers and Mr Banks isn't cruel. He isn't. We've got a new ending for the film. Oh god, I hope you like it. Bob pulls a kite out from behind his back.
Up through the atmosphere Up where the air is clear Oh let's go fly a kite Don notices Pamela's foot tapping, he stands up.
And then Mrs Banks goes to fetch her suffragettes ribbon.
 "A proper kite needs a proper tail don't you think?!" Don drops to his knees again.
Let's go fly a kite Up to the highest height Is Pamela humming too?!
Let's go fly a kite and send it
Don bows to Pamela puts his hand out to her and to his surprise, she accepts and they begin to waltz. Pamela is surprisingly elegant and accomplished.
Up through the atmosphere Up where the air is clear Oh let's go fly a kite Everybody is up and dancing, it's like something out of a Disney movie!
When you send it flying up there All at once you're lighter than air Dolly breaks away and rushes from the room.
You can dance on the breeze over houses and trees--
Mr Disney! Walt! Walt spins around.
I'm sorry to interrupt. It's just she-- she's dancing! Mrs Travers. She's dancing with Don! He cracks a great big smile.
With your fist holding tight To the string of your kite
Oh Oh Oh Oh Let's go fly a kite Up to the highest height Let's go fly a kite and send it
Up through the atmosphere Up where the air is clear Oh let's go fly a kite! They all collapse in a heap, exhausted and thrilled.
Well.
Well?
Yes! He fixes the kite! Oh, I love it! Dick punches the air.
Though proper English would be `Let us go and fly a kite.' Bob glares at her.
But I might be willing to overlook that.
Did we get that on tape? Everybody sighs with relief and Pamela looks to the caricature of Mr Banks with deep warmth.
Look at you-- all ship shape. Travers reaches up a shaking hand and musses up Ginty's perfectly plaited hair.
I re-wrote the poem father. Travers doesn't respond. Ginty reaches into her pocket, takes out tuppence.
The aunt gave me tuppence. She shows it to him in her open palm.
Shall I buy you something father?
Father?
Do you know you're quite right? It is beautiful. Exquisite.
It's always new.
As you wish. Pamela is genuinely curious.
Now, how in the world does Mister Disney propose to train penguins to dance?!
Are you serious?
I've heard about his implausibly leaved trees so I assume he does have some insane penguin wrangling scheme but it does seem rather far fetched. Can you train penguins?
Sorry?
Dick.
Cartoons. He draws a little squiggle in the air to illustrate his point.
Dick. Pamela's face turns beetroot red, she pushes herself away from the table and storms out of the room, slamming the door behind her.
Crap.
What? Are we getting real penguins?
Good afternoon Mrs Travers!
Where is Mister Disney?
If you'd like to take a seat--
I would not like to take a seat thank you. I would like to-- She heads for Disney's office and Dolly is up and running after her down the corridor.
Mrs Travers, please! Pamela blows past Tommie's desk.
Walt, I'm so sorry.
Don't worry Tommie, please close the door. Disney gestures to his cigarette.
Never let anybody see me smoking. I'd hate to encourage bad habits. Please, sit down.
I shall not sit in the seat of a trickster! A fraudster! A sneak!
Mrs Travers, what in the world has upset you so?
Penguins! Walt is confused.
Penguins have very much upset me Mister Disney! Animated, dancing penguins! Now, you have seduced me with the music Mr Disney, yes you have. Those Sherman boys have quite turned my head but I shall not be moved on the matter of cartoons. Not one inch sir!
It's a sequence--
You promised me. You promised me that this film would not be an animation!
And it isn't!
So they're real penguins?
No they're animated.
You foolish old woman. Pamela reaches into her purse and pulls out the assignment of rights papers and leaves them on the table.
Good day Mister Disney. She turns on her heel and leaves. Disney stares at the pages aghast.
Pam! Pamela! Mrs Travers! Wait!
Please call my driver and have him pick me up.
Yes ma'am, when?
Please Mrs Travers-- You must listen.
You shouldn't make promises you can't keep, especially to children, they hold on to them you see? And those promises they just sit there inside of them, like little doses of poison, all those broken promises, eating away forever.
Pamela? I don't understand why this is so hard for you. Please, make me
The books weren't written for the children. They were written for the promise breakers.
The promise breakers? Mrs Travers I-
Mrs Travers? Ralph pulls up and gets out of the car.
Woah! Mister Disney!
Hi.
Hi! I'm such a huge fan. It's such an honour to-- He suddenly sees that Pamela is more deeply entrenched in herself than usual and his priority becomes her.
You ready to go Mrs?
Yes. Thank you.
You must reconsider. You must.
I simply can't give her up. Not yet. Perhaps not ever. I don't know
You do know why!
I can't, he's--
He's?
I just-- Goodbye Mr Disney. She goes to get in the car and Disney puts a hand to stop her but Ralph blocks it.
The lady's ready to go now sir. Walt steps away and Ralph closes the door to the car.
He's? Walt watches the car disappear, wracked with frustration and confusion. He takes a seat on Pamela's bench and wraps his arms around himself and looks to the sky.
It's been a pleasure driving you Mrs.
No one likes a fibber.
You found out?
I was telling my daughter all about my day and how I was driving this nice writer lady, Mrs Travers for Mr Disney and--
(he leans into the
And she makes me go to her bedroom and get this! (he pulls out a Mary
Can't stop reading it. I'm very slow mind you. Pamela smiles.
Would you like me to sign it?
I'd be honoured. Ralph hands her his pen and she begins to write.
Your daughters name?
Jane.
Really?
Uh huh. Like the girl in the book.
 To Jane and her dearest father--  I've just this instant realized I don't know your name.
Ralph. She shakes his hand.
Pamela.
Pamela.
You're the only American I have ever liked, Ralph. Ralph is chuffed to bits.
May I ask why?
No. Now take this-- She hands him the piece of Beverly Hills Hotel stationery with her notes on.
They all had difficulties. Jane can do anything that anyone else can do, do you understand? Ralph looks at her in awe.
Look at the bottom.
Walt Disney!
Deficiencies in concentration and hyperactive behavior. Explains everything! Pamela turns to leave.
Thank you Mrs. Pamela doesn't look back.
She's gone? Tommie looks down at her paperwork and nods at Walt apologetically.
Flight left 10 minutes ago. Tommie hands him the itinerary, he glares at it.
(expecting to read her
Her. That's her real name. Walt is confused.
Yuh, didn't you know? She's all hoity toity. British this and British that and she's really an Aussie called Helen Goff. Stuck up--
Then who's Travers? Tommie and Dolly look at each other and shrug.
 I've been talking to the wrong person.
Margaret spies Ginty and moves towards her as if in slo-mo. There are flecks of blood on her dress. She is ashen, shattered. She comes down to Ginty's level.
Ginty cannot react. Margaret sweeps her into her arms and Ginty drops the brown paper bag; it tears and scatters pears all over the floor. Ginty's eyes fix on Aunt Ellie's umbrella on the back of the chair, drawn into its beady black eyes.
I want to see my father.
No, you mustn't.
I want to see him! Suddenly she turns into a wildcat - lashing, thrashing, biting, screaming. Nothing will stop her seeing Travers.
Let her go Margaret. Margaret is forced to let go and Ginty runs for her father's bedroom.
I dropped the pears. She perches on the edge of the bed and takes his hand.
I'm sorry daddy. Ellie appears in the doorway, Ginty addresses her without turning around.
You promised you would fix everything.
Hello house.
Oh dear god! Standing on the doorstep is Walt Disney. Pamela is, quite literally, speechless.
It was one heck of a job getting a seat on the very next flight, let me tell you.
But, you always get what you want eventually. Isn't that right Walter? He looks down at her hand clenched into a fist and shaking.
How about you show me how to make one of those nice English pots of tea?
Milk. The milk goes in first. He attends to it.
I remember.
And whiskey. I'll have whiskey in mine. Disney follows her gesture to the whiskey decanter. She takes it from him and pours a generous slug into her teacup.
You've come to change my mind. To beat me into submission.
No, I've come because you misjudge me.
How do I misjudge you?
You look at me and you see some kind of Hollywood King Midas.
You think I've built an empire and that I want to use your Mary Poppins as just another brick in my kingdom. You think I see her with a carpetbag full of greenbacks.
And don't you?
If that was all it was would I have pursued an cranky, stubborn dame like you for twenty years? I'd've have saved myself an ulcer!
Mary Poppins isn't real.
Oh, no, that's not true. She's real as can be to my daughter's and to thousands of other children-- adults too. She's been there as a nighttime comfort to a heck of a lot of people.
Well, Where is she when I need her? Hm? I open the door to Mary Poppins and who should be standing there but Walt Disney! He laughs.
Mrs Travers, I am so sorry. I hoped this would be a magical experience for you, for all of us. But I let you down-- and in doing so, I've broken a twenty year old promise to my girls.
Ah! Not true then that Disney created man in his own image?
But it is true that you created yourself in someone else's yes? She doesn't answer. Walt takes mouthful of laced tea and coughs a little.
Ever been to Kansas City, Mrs Travers? Do you know Missouri at all?
Can't say I do and as I have no plans to ever set foot on American soil again I'm afraid I never will.
It's mighty cold there in the winters. Bitter. Walt stops talking, catches himself, looks away and then gives in. His enthusiasm completely disappears and he's suddenly as ragged and as weary as Pamela.
 My dad, Elias Disney, he owned a newspaper delivery route there. Thousand papers. Twice daily. Morning and evening edition. Elias, he was a tough businessman. A save- a-penny anywhere you can type of fella so he wouldn't employ any delivery boys, he just used me and my big brother Roy. I was eight then-- eight years old.
You'd push through it like wading through molasses.
And the cold and the wet would be seeping through the shoes and the skin would be raw and peeling from our faces-- and sometimes I'd find myself sunk down in the snow, waking up, cuz I must've passed out for a moment-- I dunno. Then school, too cold to figure out an equation. And back into the snow so by the time we got home it'd be just getting dark, and every part of you would sting like crazy as it slowly came back to life in the warmth. My mother would feed us dinner and then it'd be time to go out again for the evening edition.
Now, I don't tell you all this to make you sad Mrs Travers, I don't. I love my life - it's a miracle. And I loved my daddy, boy I loved him. But, there isn't a day goes by where I don't think of that little boy in the snow and old Elias with his fist and strap and I'm just so tired-- I'm tired of remembering it that way. Aren't you tired Mrs Travers? We all have our tales but don't you want to find a way to finish the story? Let it all go and have a life that isn't dictated by a past?
I don't know what you think you know about me Walter--
You must've loved and admired him a lot to take his name--
Mrs. Travers. It's all about him isn't it? All of this. Everything. Pamela looks at her hands, they're shaking.
Forgiveness. It's what I learned from your books.
I don't need to forgive my father. He was a wonderful man.
No, you need to forgive Helen Goff. Life is a harsh sentence to lay down for yourself. Pamela looks down at the table top.
Give her to me, Mrs Travers. Trust me with your precious Mary Poppins. I won't disappoint you. I swear that every time a person goes into a movie house - from Leicester to St Louis, they will see George Banks being saved. They will love him and his kids, they will weep for his cares, and wring their hands when he loses his job. And when he flies that kite, oh! They will rejoice, they will sing. In every movie house, all over the world, in the eyes and the hearts of my kids, and other kids and their mothers and fathers for generations to come, George Banks will be honoured. George Banks will be redeemed. George Banks and all he stands for will be saved. Maybe not in life, but in imagination. Because that's what we storytellers do. We restore order with imagination. We instill hope again and again and again. Trust me, Mrs Travers. Let me prove it to you. I give you my word.
Enough.
Walt. She hands him a sheet of paper.
Invitation list for the premiere.
Is that everyone?
Not everyone. She looks at Walt questioningly.
There'll be cameras, press, interviews-- I have to protect the picture.
Okay. Walt walks away, he's lost a bit of steam. Tommy watches him go.
I should say so too. The doorbell sounds, voices. Pamela begins to tap again.
Mrs Travers! Pamela tuts, tries to carry on with her work.
Mrs Travers! Pamela rises from her chair, smoothes down her skirt.
For goodness sake! She rises from her chair, smoothes down her skirt and makes her way to the front door.
Please don't screech like an alleycat!
I am so pleased to hear that Mrs Travers.
I should think you'll have a draft very soon.
You're perfectly capable of doing it yourself. Polly leaves, Pamela rolls her eyes.
She's quite the worst maid I've ever had!
So why do you keep her?
I don't know-- she reminds me of me. Diarmuid laughs.
Do you have a title?
Mary Poppins in the Kitchen.
Wonderful. Should we start talking about the film rights? Pamela narrows her eyes at him.
NEVER again.
Okay.
Oh, I'm not going.
Why not?
Hollywood premieres are not for old trout like me. Anyway, it's not
He hasn't invited you, has he? Pamela doesn't reply.
Mary Poppins wouldn't stand for that.
Can I help you?
I'm perfectly capable thank you. The flight attendant recognizes her with something akin to horror.
Suit yourself-- ma'am.
Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon and welcome aboard this flight to Los Angeles. Just a few announcements before we begin our taxi for takeoff-- Pamela takes the seat next to the window, she looks out at the tarmac. She closes her eyes, takes a deep breath, opens her eyes again and tucks her feet tidily together. She folds her hands neatly into her lap and looks straight ahead.
Morning Dolly. Dolly opens her mouth to speak but he's already past and
Tommie sits, arms crossed and stares, half bemused at Walt.
What? Tommie nods toward his office. Pamela is sitting in a chair, back to them.
Me again!
Mrs Travers! How wonderful to see you. What brings you to--
I'm here for my premiere.
Great!
I didn't receive my invitation, but I just assumed the American postal service had fallen down on the job as per usual. She smiles sweetly.
I'll have a-- uh, replacement sent to your hotel right away.
That's very kind, Mr Disney. I knew you wouldn't have forgotten me.
Pam, how could I?
How indeed? You did, after all, assure me that I wouldn't be disappointed.
Absolutely. The doorman goes to find her a cab and in his absence a limo pulls up to the kerb. Pamela doesn't dare get her hopes up but the door swings open and there he is, her favorite person in America.
Had a feeling a certain friend of mine might be needing me tonight.
Ralph! She rushes to him and they give each other a friendly hug.
You look like a million bucks! Let's get you to the ball. He opens the back door for her and she climbs in.
 This is your night. None of this would be possible without you. She brings her arm down, straightens her dress and breaks into a smile, making her way down the carpet to frantic whispers amongst the press and autograph hunters of: "Who is that?" "Is that anyone?" Pamela spots Walt, Dick Van Dyke and Julie Andrews being interviewed together up ahead. Mickey Mouse bounces down the carpet and slows-- he and Pamela lock eyes for a brief moment. He holds out his gloved hand, she takes it and together they watch as a huge toy train chugs to a halt on the blvd and hundreds upon hundreds of coloured balloons fly out of it's roof and into the air.
She looks around at the faces in the audience - laughing, humming, sad, happy, joyous. Intercut with images from Pamela's childhood and the voices of Bert and Jane - Ellie's parrot head umbrella--
You know, begging your pardon, but the one my heart goes out to is your father. The carousel horses at the Allora fair--
There he is in that cold, heartless bank day after day, hemmed in by mounds of cold, heartless money. The tuppence and rolling pears--
I don't like to see any living thing caged up. Uncle Albert with Ginty on his back, carrying her river soaked mother back to the house--
Father in a cage? Ginty pressing the final bottle into her father's hand--
They makes cages in all sizes and shapes, you know. The image of the dead Travers in his bloodstained bed--
Bank-shaped some of 'em, carpets and all.
Children in the audience, their little faces tilted upwards. Rapt.
You won't ever leave us will you?
Whatever would we do without you?
I shall stay until the wind changes. And then an image from the film: George Banks walks away from us down the misty tree-lined London street, on his way to be fired from the bank. Walt Disney watches with quiet satisfaction. Pamela however has tears coursing down her face. Her shoulders heave as she tries desperately not to sob out loud but people are noticing, looking at her. Disney leans forward, placing a hand on her shoulder. She reaches up and grips it tightly, unable to speak.
It's all right, Mrs Travers. It's alright. Mr Banks is going to be all right. I promise. Pamela nods in gratitude, but cannot contain her sobs. It's all pouring from her now, in one immense catharsis.
No, no. It's just that-- I can't, I can't abide cartoons! We stay on her face as we bring up the final song of the film: Let's Go Fly A Kite. The audience around her are smiling, laughing, singing along. Pamela, the tears, silent now, still pouring down her cheeks as she slowly begins to mouth along with the lyrics. And in her head one final image appears. Travers gaze falls upon Ginty, outside his bedroom window, sweeping. Their eyes meet for a brief moment, an unspoken understanding of what is to come, before his close with tiredness.
Never. I promise. I will never lose you.
--Like something is brewing, about to begin-- And further and further--
Can't put me finger on what lies in
We give chase but cannot catch up--
But I feel what's to happen, all
And the umbrella floats up, up, up into the atmosphere and
