Help! Someone help me! (He stops when he hears a loud dragging sound somewhere in the room. He looks out into the darkness and calls out.) Is someone there? Hey! (He turns back to the corner to which he is chained, says in a slightly softer but still panicked voice) Shit, Im probably dead.
Youre not dead.
Whos that? Whos that?!
 Theres no point in yelling, I already tried it.
Turn on the lights!
Would if I could.
What the fuck is going on? Where am I? (He turns into his corner, touching the wall.)
I dont know yet.
What is that smell?
Shh! Hang on a second, I think I found something.
Holy shit!
HELP!!! (He falls back onto his bottom on the floor as he yanks at the chain as hard as he can.) HELP!!! Help!
No one can hear you.
What the fuck is this?
Calm down, just calm down. (He knows that to remain calm is to remain in control, something he must be no matter what the situation.) Are you hurt?
I dont know...yeah!
Whats your name?
My name is Very Fucking Confused!  Whats your name? Whats going on here?
EMPTY_LINE
Ah!
Recognize him?
No.
 Well, do you have any idea how you got here?
No.
Whats the last thing you remember?
Nothing. (he sits back onto the floor, stops pulling at his chains for a moment.) I went to bed in my shithole apartment, and woke up in an actual shithole. (He raises his left leg slightly, starts trying to pull his foot out of the iron cuff. He glances to Lawrence, who has moved over to the wall to his left, bent over slightly and resting a hand against a pipe.) So what about you, huh?
 Well theres...theres not much to tell, really. (Across the room, Adam gives up with the chain for the time being but remains sitting on the floor.) I was on my way home from work and uh, I dont remember anything else.
First dead body Ive ever seen. Look different in real life. They dont move.
From the looks of these chains, someone didnt want us to go very far either.
Can you see any scars?
What?
Huh? This is what they do man, (he gestures to his stomach, where there are in fact no scars.) They kidnap you and drug you and before you know it, youre in a bathtub and your kidneys are on eBay. (A ridiculous theory to us and to Lawrence, but Adam states it with conviction.)
No one has taken your kidneys.
How can you tell from way over there?
Because youd either be in terrible agony, or youd be dead by now. Trust me.
What are you, a surgeon? (He lowers his shirt and turns and bends down to prod at the chain around the pipe again.)
Yeah. (He sighs. Hes getting tired of Adam already. He speaks sharply.) So, you gonna tell me your name, or what?
Adam.
 That clock.
What about it?
Its brand new.
So?
 Wait, I think I may be able to reach that door.
What is that? (Adam doesnt answer, continues looking at the tape. Lawrences voice grows impatient.) Excuse me.
 Its a tape.
Where did you find it?
It was in my pocket.
It says Play me.
 Come on, come on, come on....
 Throw it over here.
Fuck. (He leans over and picks up the key, then bends down and tries the key on the lock on his ankle, which doesnt work. He tries the lock on the chains around the pipe. It isnt working there either.)
No?
Use your shirt.
What?
Your shirt.
Come on...
It wont work.
 Well, look around, there must be something else you can use.
 Theres nothing.
Well there must be something!
Come on, you can do it.
Come on, come on, again.
Rise and shine, Adam. Youre probably wondering where you are. Ill tell you where you might be. You might be in the room that you die in. Up until now, you simply sat in the shadows, watching others live out their lives. But what do voyeurs see when they look into the mirror? Now, I see you as a strange mix of someone angry and yet apathetic. But mostly just pathetic. So are you going to watch yourself die today, Adam? Or do something about it? 
I dont get it. (He presses the stop button on the tape.)
Throw me the player.
No, you throw me your tape.
 Look, were going to have to work together if we want to get out of here. Now just throw it to me.
 Im not going to risk breaking it! You throw me your tape!
Dr. Gordon, this is your wake up call. Every day of your working life, you have given people the news that they are going to die soon. Now you will be the cause of death. Your aim in this game is to kill Adam. (Adam glances down at the tape recorder wide-eyed, then back up at Lawrence) You have until six on the clock to do it. There sa man in the room with you. When theres that much poison in your blood (another view of the body from Lawrences POV), the only thing left to do is shoot yourself. There are ways to win this hidden all around you. Just remember: X marks the spot for the treasure. If you do not kill Adam by 6:00, then Alison and Diana will die, Dr. Gordon. And Ill leave you in this room to rot. Let the game begin.
Give me that. Now. (Adam tosses him the tape. He catches it, rewinds, plays back. Adam stands up from his spot on the floor.)
...then Alison and Diana will die, Dr. Gordon. And Ill leave you in this room to rot.
 Any idea who that is?
Let the game begin.
He knows us.
Wait a minute.
What do you think? Probably a joke, right?
Shh, shh!
Let the game begin.
Listen...
...Follow your heart.
What the hell does Follow your heart mean?
There! Right next to you, on the toilet.
Come on, come on.
Oh man...(he gasps, making gagging sounds, his face turned away from the bowl. He coughs, fishes around for another brief moment, then quickly pulls back, trying to shake some of the shit off of his hand, spitting.
Anything?
No solids.
Take off the lid. (He points to the lid. Adam looks to it, slowly stands up, reaches for it. Lawrence has no patience.) Come on!
I really wish I had checked in there first.
Huh.  What is it?
Hey! (Adam turns and looks. Lawrence speaks in an irritated voice) Mind passing me the other one?
Fuck! Fuck! (He reacts violently, hitting the broken saw twice against the iron pipe then turns and hums it across the room, right into a mirror. A small piece of the mirror breaks off and flies to the floor.)
 He doesnt want us to cut through our chains. He wants us to cut through our feet. (Adam looks up at him, eyebrows raised.) I think I may know whos done this to us.
What did you say? (he stands up; is Lawrence hiding something from him?)
Its not someone I know personally. Its...just someone I know of.
Jesus Christ! Tell me, who is it?!
The last I heard...the police still hadnt caught him.
And the only reason I know that is because I was a suspect.
Ill start from the beginning.
This ones not fresh anymore. At least three weeks out. (Detective Tapp squints as he peers in and studies the body) Victims a 46-year old male. (Quick flash of a crime scene photo, a closeup of behind the mans head and upper back. There are deep cuts all over. The camera cuts upwards to the detectives.) Died of massive blood loss. Mostly through the femoral artery. (The camera pans around to Detective Tapp, who moves around the side fo the cage to get a better look inside, shining his flashlight in.) He started at the back of the cage and tunneled his way through the razor wire so fast its amazing he got as far as he did. Cut himself so deep, we found traces of stomach acid on the floor. (Another more gruesome crime scene photo shot of the body from the side; we can see the razor wire digging in under his arm. Also, a close-up shot of some of his wounds; long, deep cuts.) We also found this. (She holds up an evidence baggie with a micro cassette tape recorder, just like the one Adam and Lawrence found in their cell. She presses the play button, and Tapp and Sing listen. Its the same chilling voice from Adam and Lawrences tapes.)
Hello Paul. You are a perfectly healthy, sane, middle-class male. Yet last month, you ran a straight razor across your wrists. Did you cut yourself because you truly wanted to die, or did you just want some attention? Tonight, youll show me. The irony is that if you want to die, you just have to stay where you are. But if you want to live, youll have to cut yourself again. (Flashback shot of Paul waking up in the cage, looking around, scared and confused. The shots go back and forth between the detectives and the Paul flashback, with him grabbing and shaking the razor wire, screaming. His screams sound distant under Jigsaws voice.) Find the path through the razor wire to the door. But hurry. At 3:00 that door will lock and then this room becomes your tomb. How much blood will you shed to stay alive, Paul?
The door was on a timer. It was unlocked until 3:00. Then it slammed shut. He was given two hours.
Jigsaw piece. (Sing looks in as well, see it. There is a quick flash of crime scene photos showing a close up of the wound. Tapp sighs.) I think were gonna be here for a while, Sing. (Sing looks to him. We get another quick crime scene shot of Paul.)
The newspapers started calling him the Jigsaw Killer.
Actually, technically speaking, hes not really a murderer. He never killed anyone.
He finds ways for his victims to kill themselves.
Hello Mark. If youre so sick, then why do I have so many photos of you up and about? (there is a quick montage of a camera snapping several black and white shots of Mark up and about, looking around and getting into a car.) Lets put your so-called illness to the test. (Flashback image of Mark waking up. He is a younger man in his mid to late twenties, with dark brown hair. He is completely nude, smeared in some kind of Vaseline-like ointment. In front of him is a small, square glass plate held up by some chains. On the plate is a micro cassette player, a lit votive candle, and a box of matches. He gets up, looking around confusedly and scared.) Right now, there is a slow-acting poison in your veins. The antidote is in the safe. (Black and white crime scene shot of the safe, then a shot of Mark standing over it, screaming, his screams distant under Jigsaws voice, as with Paul.) The combination to the safe (quick montage of several black and white crime-scene photos of numbers written all over the walls) is written on the wall. Hurry up and program it in. But watch your step (Marks bare foot steps on the broken glass scattered all across the floor). And by the way, thats a flammable substance smeared on your body (shot of Mark looking at the ointment on his hand, up his arm, everywhere), so I would be careful with that candle, if I were you...
 Help!!!!!
....or all the people youve burned with your act (Mark starts to turn the lock on the safe) just might have their revenge.
I found something else. Well, two things, actually. (She moves past them and we go with her over to a wall where there is a small hole cut, about an inch or two in diameter. The light from the outside shines in.) There was someone standing outside here watching through this peephole. Looks like our friend Jigsaw likes to book himself front row seats to his own sick little games. He was there at the last one as well. Only this time, he left us his penlight. (She holds up the penlight in an evidence baggie, clicking it twice then handing it to Tapp.)
Get a rush on the prints. (He hands it back to her.)
 Copy that.
Hospital room. Lawrence in his white doctors coat along with three blue-scrub clad medical students. A nurse in white stands off to the side. Lawrence is going over the patients charts. He goes over to the x-ray display, pushing the light on to view two x-rays of someones skull. He points to it with his pen as he speaks.
Okay. This patient has an inoperable frontal lobe tumor extending across the midline. Started as colon cancer. (He turns back to the three young medical students. One of them, a pretty Asian girl named CARLA, smiles at Lawrence as he speaks, seems particularly infatuated with him.) The patient has come in for a standard checkup by which we are able to monitor the rate at which his condition is declining.
The patient had...
His name is John, Dr. Gordon. (He looks down at the patient, who we see is a man in his late forties-early fifties, hairless except for a small white goatee. His head is to the side and he is sleeping. On the tray table in front of him is a notebook and some colored pencils. As Zep looks at him and speaks of him, there is caring in his voice, something Dr. Gordon has yet to display regarding this patient.) Hes a very interesting person.
Thank you for that information, Zep. (he looks to the students, who all share his smug smile) As you can see, our orderlies form very special bonds with the patients. (Zep just stares at Lawrence, his expression mostly blank but with pure loathing just underneath the surface. The look seems to say Fuck you, Dr. Gordon. He stares at him for a moment, then turns away, and continues down the hall with his cart.) Continuing on, the patient....
Dr. Gordon, Dr. Lawrence Gordon, please page the operator.
Obviously someone doesnt want me to tell you what the patient has. Excuse me. (He steps around the students, leaves the room. The three students watch after him with great admiration.)
Dr. Gordon, Im Detective Tapp, this is Detective Sing, City Homicide. (he gestures to the degrees on the wall.) Very impressive.
Oh. Thank you, I do my best. (He sits in his chair. Tapp takes the seat next to Sing across from him. Sing studies him silently, chewing gum.)
Sorry to interrupt you while youre working.
Thats fine. Now, how can I help you gentlemen?
Are you able to tell us where you were between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 1:00 a.m. last night, Doctor?
 Why is it that youre interested?
Wed like to ask you a few questions about it. For your sake, I think its best if we do it down at the station. Would you like to follow us there?
 No, Im afraid thats...thats quite out of the question. I cant just leave, I have work to do. Plus, my wife has the car today, so...
 Oh, thats okay, you can ride with us. Doc.
Im sorry, youll have to tell me again. What is this all about?
Is this yours, Doctor?
So you have no idea how your penlight showed up at the murder scene?
Of course not!
I have to ask. What were you doing last night.
 I was seeing someone.
Who? (Lawrence doesnt answer, just continues his pacing. The lawyer gets frustrated, noisily puts down his pen.) Look, if you cant be honest with me...
I was visiting someone. It wasnt a patient. Alright? (He sighs, shakes his head. Hes fucked, either way.) What am I gonna do?
Well, as your lawyer and your friend, my advice to you is to bite the bullet and give them your alibi now. Because no one is going to believe you later.
That was five months ago. He tried to set me up for murder.
Okay. We checked your alibi. It holds up. (His voice indicates that he still believes theres more to it; he does not and will not trust Lawrence.)
Good! Can I go home now?
We have one of the victims who managed to escape. (As he speaks, we see a young woman with brown hair in a ponytail wearing a visitors pass being led carefully into the room next to them and sat at a table. This is AMANDA. Lawrence and Sing can see her clearly; she cannot see them.) Want to know if you wouldnt mind sticking around and listening to her testimony? Maybe itll trigger something. (Tapp and an unidentified bald black man in a suit enter the room. The man guides Amanda into her chair, stands behind her against the wall. Tapp sits in a chair to her left.)
Id like to help, really, but...
 Well, wed really appreciate it. Shes the only one who made it.
Okay.
Amanda...in your own time, tell me the first thing you remember.
I woke up. All I could taste was blood. (The camera moves back quickly, and we see her tied to the chair, her wrists bound to the arms of the chair. She pulls against her bonds, moaning loudly, trying to speak or cry out but cannot.) And metal.
Hello Amanda. You dont know me, but I know you. I want to play a game. Heres what happens if you lose. (The video moves next to the doll, to a device like the one shes wearing attached to a mannequin head. As he continues, explaining what it is, her breathing grows faster and heavier, and her moans pick up more.) The device youre wearing is hooked into your upper and lower jaws. When the timer at the back goes off, your mouth will be permanently ripped open. Think of it like a reverse bear trap. Here, Ill show you.
There is only one key to open the device. Its in the stomach of your dead cellmate. Look around, Amanda. Know that Im not lying. You better hurry up. Live or die. Make your choice.
And then I saw the body.
There was a knife.
Hed been injected with an opiate overdose. He couldnt move or feel much of anything.
You mean....he was alive?
Was.
What happened after you took it off?
Congratulations. You are still alive. Most people are so ungrateful to be alive. But not you. Not anymore.
You are, in fact, a drug addict. Isnt that right, Mandy? (she nods, but doesnt look up.) Do you think that is why he picked you? (She lets out a sob, briefly nodding once.) Are you grateful, Mandy?
He...helped me.
Are you sure its him?
Yeah, Im sure.
EMPTY_LINE
 Im in exactly the same situation youre in.
Wrong. (he stands up, kicking his chained foot out. Shouts.) Wrong! Youve got one thing I dont: Information! (He hovers as close as he can in a threatening pose, pointing) You know who did this! (He picks up a glass shard that fell when he broke the mirror, holds it up threateningly to Lawrence) Now you either tell me what is really going on (Lawrence rolls his eyes, turns his head over to his left, away from Adam) or Ill cut you with this, you hear me? Ill cut- (But he stops short as he sees something in the glass. He flips it over, studying it, flips it back. He looks over to the mirror on the wall, studying it, thinking.)
What?
 Its a two-way mirror.
I can see you...
So thats what this is. Reality TV.
 Dont look at me. I cant help you.
Can you hear me in there? Huh? Im having a blast. (he bends down and picks up another piece of debris from the floor) This is the most fun Ive had without lubricant. (Hums the piece of debris at the window. It makes a thwacking sound, but doesnt break. Not even a crack.) Make sure youre getting everything. (Bends down, throws picks up and throws another piece of debris. It hits, but no breakage. Leans down for another piece.)
 Thats not going to do anything.
You just want to leave it running on us? (the shot switches to surveillance view)
Well, you wont stop it. Thats why we cant cut through these chains. Its why you wont break that glass. (he gestures to the pipe then the glass) Every possible angle has been pre-thought out by him. (He appears deep in thought, starting to understand the set-up more so, figuring out the way this guy thinks. Almost admiring him. The situation may be bad, but its a brilliant design.)
You sound like you admire this prick.
To overcome something, you have to understand what a perfect engine it is. Thats how you fight disease. (He looks up at the ceiling, at the walls, around the room) Now the tape told us to find an X. That X has to be somewhere in this room. Help me find it.
How can you be the calm Doctor Guy when your wife and kid are out there. (Shot of Lawrence looking around the room) Hes got them, too. (Shot of the clock; its now 12:05.) He could be doing anything to them right now. Are you thinking about that?
 Ive been the last thing I said to my daughter.
Diana, Honey, are you okay? (she pushes back the covers and gets up, crouching down in front of her daughter. Looking up at her, she places her hands on her daughters arms.) Diana, Honey, can you hear me?
 Mommy?
Oh, what is it, sweet pea?
Theres a man in my room.
 Oh Honey, are you sure hes not just hiding in your imagination?
He talked to me.
Okay, Ill come and check your room. (She smiles a small, assuring smile)
I want Daddy. Hell get the scary man.
Alright, if you want. Come on.
Larry, sorry to bother you, but your daughter had a bad dream again.
 Just a minute.
She wants you to check her room.
Mmm hmm, mmm hmm, just gotta finish this paragraph.
You know what sweetie? Ill go check with you.
Nope! Im done. (he smiles, turning to look at them.)
See? (he pulls the covers up over her, up to her chest.) Theres no one in your room. Theres no such thing as the bad man. Now can you go to sleep?
Im still scared.
You are? Give me your tootsie. (He pulls back the covers and she pulls out her foot. He takes it in his hand.) Oh, what a big tootsie. (He turns to her, raising his eyebrows up) Remember this one? (He counts on her toes as he says the following) This little piggy went to market, this little piggy stayed home, this little piggy had roast beef, this little piggy had none, and this little piggy went Weeee! (he tickles up her leg to her tummy and she giggles) all the way home!
I hate that thing.
Well I have to go to work, sweetheart. You know what Daddys job is like. Now, come on. (he re-tucks her in, she smiles at him.) Lets see. Try and get some sleep now, okay? (He gives her a kiss, smiles, stands up and goes to the door.)
Youre not going to leave us, are you, Daddy?
What? (He stops at the door, turns, goes back over to her bed, sits down next to her and leans over. This was the last thing hed expected her to say) What are you talking about? You mean, leave you and Mommy? (She nods; he reaches up and gently brushes her hair away from her face.) No, no sweetheart, I would never do that. Who gave you that idea?
No one.
Well its not true, okay?
Okay.
How much do I love you?
Thats right, thats right! (He gives her a kiss, pulls back.) Good night, sweetie.
Good night, Daddy.
Tomorrow, Ill read you your favourite story.
Okay.
Okay.
I dont know how much longer I can do this, Larry.
 What, what are you talking about?
How can you walk through life pretending that youre happy?
I am happy.
That is complete bullshit. (cut to a shot of Diana, laying on her side in her darkened room, clutching her teddy bear to her chest. Her eyes are open, she can hear everything. We stay with her for the rest of Alisons line, her voice now off a bit in the distance but still very audible) Id rather you break down and tell me that you hated me. At least thered be some passion in it.
Would you like to see her? (He reaches into his pocket and takes out his wallet, throws it across the room to Adam, who is sitting with his back against the wall, facing Lawrence. Adam picks up the wallet and opens it. He sees two pictures of Diana, side by side. The one on the left is Diana hugging a dog. The one on the right is a smiling portrait outside somewhere.
Shes beautiful.
Thank you.
You gonna have any more kids?
Weve talked about it, but uh, with our schedules, its difficult enough to concentrate on one. (The tone of his voice indicates that maybe hes starting to realize that he shouldve spent more time and attention to his daughter.)
So wheres the lucky wife?
Theres another picture behind the one youre looking at. (Adam reaches behind the photo on the right and pulls another photograph out. Lawrence smiles slightly as he speaks) Its my favourite one because were all in it together. Someone, usually me, has to hold the camera, which means Im always missing from the photos.
X Marks the spot. Sometimes you see more with your eyes shut.
Its uh, its not here.
 What?
Uh, this photo youre talking about...its not here.
 Really? Are you sure?
Yeah. (Tucking the picture in his right hand, he shifts slightly by lifting himself a bit with his right hand, sneakily putting the photograph down and tossing the wallet with his left hand. Lawrence picks up the wallet and starts looking for it, creasing his brow in concern, while Adam backs up against his wall, holding the photograph out of Lawrences sight against a pipe he rests his arm on as he looks at the photograph.)
He...he mustve taken it. I...
How can you walk through life pretending that youre happy?
I am happy. (He walks over to a chair, leaning over it as he puts something down, gets his briefcase ready to go to work. Alison stands a few feet behind him, trying her best to get him to react, to stop the bullshit and end the masquerade.)
That is complete bullshit. Id rather you break down and tell me that you hated me. At least thered be some passion in it.
EMPTY_LINE
Just leave.
Goodnight, little girl. (camera pans up closer into the closet, and we a widened blue eye and part of a face 
Diana!?
Diana! (opens the door and flips on the light, gasps when she sees a figure covered by a blanket looming over Dianas bed. The figure suddenly grabs Diana and she screams, struggling against him. Alison goes for them.
Dont do that! Leave her! Get away from her!
Keep your motherfucking hands off of my daughter!
Who are you little man...I see you...(cut to a television screen with the video of Zep in the window. Fade back and to the right as we get a view of someones apartment. Plastered on the walls are various photographs, which we can barely make out, and a desk in the corner with some recording equipment. As we move further right and hit the window we see Detective Tapp, leaning over the camera shooting the Gordons window, adjusting the view. Something about him seems just not right. We cut back to his view from the camera.) Does Dr. Gordon know youre at home with his wife? I know you know something. (his voice goes up a bit louder) What are you doing in there? Waiting for the doctor? Im waiting for the doctor, too. Hmm.
I never should have let you go...
 I never shouldve let you go...
EMPTY_LINE
 Look, Im sorry I cant be of more help to your investigation.
You know, we arrested a dentist last week who like to play with kids a bit too much. He lived two blocks from here. The sewer lines run under this neighborhood too, Doctor. 
Hello Amanda. You dont know me, but I know you. I want to play a game. Heres what happens if you lose. Theres a timer at the back of the device youre wearing. When the timer goes off, your mouth will be permanently ripped open.
Ill catch you guys down there. (he reaches over and gets something off of his desk)
Think of it like a reverse bear trap.
Ill show you...
Hey Tapp?
Mmm?
Were gonna go down to the Grill, go get a beer. You wanna come?
I dont think so. Thanks anyway.
You know I always ask.
There is only one key...
Ill leave you to have fun up here. (He puts his hands on his hips, watching some more of the video.)
Its in the stomach of your dead cellmate.
 Hey Tapp? I dont mean for this to be disrespectful... Maybe you should find yourself a girlfriend.
Its in the stomach of your dead cellmate.
Look around, Amanda. Know that Im not lying. (Sing steps off to the right) You better hurry up. (Tapp rewinds again, suddenly pauses)
Wait wait wait, Sing!
Get back here!
What?
Mmm! (he gestures franticly for him to come over.)
What?
Remember 118th Street?
 Ah...K2K. That gangs territory was only about four blocks.
Now listen to this.
We gotta check the records from all the fire emergencies that occurred there in the last two weeks. Go, right now! Mmm!
Close up of a map, with Sing speaking in a voiceover. As he speaks, theres a brief shot of the two of them sitting over the map, then quick shots of a few black and white photographs of a warehouse, including a close up of a street sign Stygian St.
On the night of Tuesday, the 17th, we got a fire alarm going off in the rear wing of 213 Stygian Street. Its an old listing. Used to be a mannequin factory. (cut back to view of the two detectives) You think we have enough for a warrant, though?
Who said anything about a warrant? (He grins, gets up and grabs his jacket.)
Right now?
Why not?
Yeah, why not? (He grabs his gun, snaps a cartridge into it, grabsup his coat, and quickly follows Tapp.
At least well have the cover of darkness.
Yeah, well, so will anybody else.
I got you...
What the hell is this?.......(his voice almost a whisper) Oh shit...
Oh fuck!
Wait Sing!
 What?
Lets see what hes gonna do.
Why? Weve fucking got him.
We dont know what he looks like. Lets see what hes gonna do.
No fucking way!
Sing, Sing! (he moves in front of the man a bit, holding up his hand to try to halt Sing, trying to convince him to go along with him.)
Fuck that. Im gonna take him.
Sing!
What the fuck? Shit!
Wait Sing, listen.
Awake already, Jeff? I need more powerful tranquilizers next time. (Jeff continues his cries, sheds a few tears. Jigsaw reaches over and touches his shoulder) Dont cry. Ive given your life a purpose. Youre a test subject for something greater than yourself.
Freeze! Police!
Hold it right there! Dont move!
Put your fucking hands in the air!
Now youll make a choice. (Sing runs up the steps to try to where Jigsaw is, gun aimed at him. Tapp remains where he stands.) In 20 seconds, the life of this man will be ended.
Shut up and get down here!
What did you do? Turn it off!
Sing, stop that thing! Im taking this bastard down. (Sing tosses Tapp the shotgun.) Move!
How do you turn it off?!
Tell him how to stop it!
One key will unlock it.
Where is it?!
Its in the box.
Box! (He sees a box on the side of the chair and opens it. Inside he pulls out a ring of at least 30 keys, and goes over to behind Jeff to try to unlock the device. He tries a couple of keys, none working.) Fuck! Which key, which key?!
Tell him which key it is!
 Time is running out.
Shut up and get down here right now, asshole!
Whats more important to you Officer, arresting me or the life of another human being?
Get down on your knees!
Jesus! Tapp! Tapp!
 Hands behind your head! Sick bastard.
Yes, I am sick, Officer.
 Tapp! Its like, theres a hundred keys in here!
Sick from the disease eating away at me inside. Sick of people who dont appreciate their blessings. Sick of those who scoff at the suffering of others.
EMPTY_LINE
Tapp!!! (runs down from Jeff towards them. Tapp clutches his throat, completely surprised, gurgling.)
No, no! Tapp! Shit!
 Ill be back, okay? Ill be back.
Freeze or Ill shoot!
Had you...had you on your knees. (He sits forward, getting some things off the coffee table) Youre running. Youre running...(He gets up and goes over to the desk in the corner with the audio recording device and dozens of photos pinned to the wall, takes a seat) Youre running scared because we had you. Im going to close this case. Ram close it. (He picks up a small framed photograph, which we cant see, but likely, its of Sing.) Right, Sing? Right? Were gonna close it, Sing.
X Marks the spot...(He stands, touching the pipe and looking up and around a bit.) X marks the spot...we need to search this room again. (He turns and looks over at Adam.) What are you doing over there?
Excuse me?
Just because Im stuck in this room with you doesnt mean I have to report to you every ten seconds.
I really dont see the point in us not helping one another.
well what do you want me to do? Im on a leash.
Thats exactly why we need to talk. We need to think!
I am thinking!
Well then dont keep me in the dark about what youre thinking!
Turn off the lights.
What?
 Turn them off now, please!
Why?
Just turn them off for a second!
Jesus, behind you!
How come we didnt see that before?
The lights in here hadnt charged it. It must be glow in the dark paint or something.
Open it!
 The key, the one from my envelope. Where is it?
Where the fuck...Here. (He finds it, picks it up and tosses it over.)
Cell phone. The most beautiful invention on this planet!
Make that second most beautiful invention! (He reaches out his hand for Lawrence to toss it.) Give me that.
Are you joking? Youre gonna put something we found in this room in your mouth?
Yes, Im willing to risk it! Give me that sweet cancer. (Lawrence ignores his request, tosses out the other cigarette and a lighter. He finds lastly a small folded up note with the words Shh, Doctor, written on it.) I dont care, I really dont. Give me one of those.
The cigarettes are harmless, I promise. Smoking is only poisonous when it ends in bloodshed. Think about this - you dont need a gun to kill Adam.
May I please have a cigarette?
Im trying the police. (He flips open and dials on the cell phone, but a weird beeping noise indicating the call cant go through comes from the phone. He dials again, same result.) Shit.  This was meant to receive calls, not make them. (A moment; he realizes something.) Wait a minute...this has happened before.
Last night, after I finished at the hospital. (fade into another closer shot of the cars, and Lawrence walking down the corridor, carrying his briefcase.) I was walking back to my car. (He stops a moment) I thought I was alone, but Im sure someone else was there. (He squints, bringing his hand up over his eyes. There is a flash from the side. He looks up, startled, looking in the direction in which he thinks it came from, but sees nothing. He looks around him for another moment, then continues forward to his car.)
 That...thing. It was waiting for me. (He exhales sharply, then looks back up at Adam. Adam is just standing there, staring at him. Something seems a bit...off. With a suspicious tone, Lawrence addresses him.) How did you know to turn off the lights?
Who cares? It worked.
Yeah, but how did you know?
Instinct. (His tone is far from believable.)
Instinct?
Yeah.
You know what? (he looks down, then back up at Adam.) Youre a terrible liar.
You say that like you know me.
 What else arent you telling me?
Well, um, lets see. On my sixth birthday, my best friend at that time, Scott Tibbs, stabbed me with a rusty nail. I didnt tell you about that. I didnt tell you that my last girlfriend, (Lawrence lowers his head into his hands. Un-FUCKING-believable) who was a feminist vegan punk, broke up with me because she thought I was too angry. Uh, I havent told you that one of my toenails is slightly...
Just stop it. You knew to turn off these lights.
What-ever.
Im dealing with a juvenile.
You wanna know?
Yeah!
 Here it is. (He throws it towards Lawrence, who looks down at it, then back up at Adam before getting down on the floor and pulling it towards him with the hinged box. He picks it up, sitting up as he looks upon it with shock. )
Oh God...(he turns it over, then back. Adam casts his eyes downwards, still standing but cooling off, feeling bad for Lawrence) W...where did you get this?
It was in your wallet, behind the photo of your daughter.
W...why didnt you show me this before?
I couldnt. (Lawrence begins to shakily sob, touching the photo.) Im sorry. (Adam goes over and sits against a pipe in his corner, lowering his head and upper body forward, holding his head in his hands.)
What are you doing to them you bastard?! (He goes back to huddling over the photograph, sniffling and crying for a moment. Then, he sits up, trying to pull himself together) Okay...okay.. Okay, Ive got to think now...(He looks down, sees the note again in the box.)
Think about this...you dont need a gun to kill Adam. When theres that much poison in your blood (a slow shot moving to the pool of blood from the body in front of Lawrence), the only thing left to do is shoot yourself.
What are you doing?
Hey! What the hell are you doing?
 Adam, listen to me. I want you to play along with me on this.
You got that? (he turns the lights back on, both of them again wincing at the bright light. Lawrence glances at the surveillance camera, then looks to Adam.
So you uh, still want that cigarette?
Um...yeah, sure.
 There! Ive done it! Ive killed him with the poison, just like you wanted. Now wheres my family?! Where are they?!
Jesus Christ!!
What?
I just got electrocuted!
What? (he rolls his eyes. Unbelievable. He speaks in a hushed tone.) That was our way out!
Did you hear what I said? (he desperately grabs at the manacle around his ankle, pulling at it and shrieking) Get this thing off me! Get it off!
Stop acting!
 You think I would make that up just to mess up your stupid fucking charade?
 All right, thats it! (He leans over and picks up his saw, sits down and starts trying to saw through his chains again, grunting. Adam, in the meantime, just sits back against the wall, breathing heavily, looking dazed. Lawrence continues to franticly saw, but it doesnt work. He gets pissed off and throws the blade down.) Ah, Damn it!!
I remember everything now. I remember how I got here.
Great.
Is someone there? (he takes a picture, the flash lighting up the area in front of him.) I can hear you. (He takes another picture, the flash lighting up a living room area. Nothing yet. He moves forward more, into the kitchen entryway, snapping away for light.)
 What the...
Who is that?! Whos in there?! (he moves towards the door, shaking but trying to be a tough guy) Come on out! Ill kill you, you motherfucker! (He opens the door, holds the camera and takes a picture. As soon as the flash goes off we see the red-robed pig thing that originally grabbed Lawrence quickly move forward and grab Adam.)
Who is this?
Daddy?
Diana?
Daddy, is that you? (cut to a shot of her being held by Zep, the phone to her ear.)
Yeah baby, its me. Im here.
Im scared, Daddy.
Dont worry honey, everythings going to be okay. Wheres Mommy?
Shes here with me.
 Let me talk to her sweetie, okay? Put Mommy on.
The bad man from my room is here. He has us tied up and he has a gun.
W...what man?
Please come home Daddy! (Zep kisses her on the top of her head and takes the phone away to give to Alison.)
Hello? Hello? Diana?
Diana! Diana!
Larry?
Ally? Is that you? (We see a shot of Alison giving a threatening look through her tears to Zep.)
Is Adam there?
 How do you know? Ally, what is going on?
EMPTY_LINE
EMPTY_LINE
 Are they okay?
 My wife, she uh, she mentioned your name.
 What did she say?
 She told me...not to believe you.
Believe me about what? (There is no doubt hes hiding something)
 Who are you?
 You know who I am.
Stop the lies! Youre a liar! I need to know the truth!
 What did you do last night, Lawrence? Work at a hospital? Saving sick children? You told me that after you left your house last night, you went to work at a hospital.
Thats because its the truth.
No its not. Your wife is right, Larry. (Lawrence is now the one wearing the Oh shit look.) You dont recall getting your picture taken in that parking lot?
I can prove that you didnt go anywhere near a hospital last night. (He leans over and pulls out the garbage bag from the tub. Lawrence stands, staring at him in near disbelief. He has been caught. Adam takes a handful of photos from the baggie hed kept hidden inside the garbage bag, holds them up and throws them down, scattering them.) Its not the first time Ive done it either, Larry. (Lawrence leans over to look at the photos on the floor in front of him with complete and utter disbelief, picking one up and looking down at it) Ive been taking pictures of you for a few days now. (Shots of some of Adams pictures. Lawrence going into a building, Lawrence at an outdoor caf eating lunch.)
But...why?
You wanna know what I do? I get paid to take pictures of rich guys like you who go to seedy, out-of-the-way motels to fuck their secretaries. (we start seeing more shots Adam took while following Lawrence) Last night I went to your house. (Flashback of Adam holding his camera, then cut to several photographs of Lawrence leaving his house, glancing over his shoulder and moving down the sidewalk) I watched you leave. I followed you (Lawrence in the parking garage, photographs of the exterior of the Hotel Barfly. Lawrence inside the hotel, knocking on the door to one of the rooms while Adam hides around the corner with his camera) all the way to that shitbag hotel. (Photographs of Lawrence standing outside then going into the room.)
 Youve uh, had these with you the whole time?
I found them, in there (points to the toilet; quick flashback of Adam pulling the bag out of the top of the toilet, then Adam opening the bag and seeing the hacksaws and a glimpse of something else in the bag.) with the hacksaws. (Flashback of Adam tossing the bag into the bathtub while Lawrence isnt looking.) I dont know how they got there.
Yeah, right. Youre so full of it! (He angrily crumples up and throws the photo he was holding at Adam)
Aww, face it, Larry, were both bulls hitters. But my camera isnt. It doesnt know how to lie. It only shows you whats put right in front of it. Just out of curiosity, what did you do in that motel room? You got out of there pretty fast.
Why did you um, deem it necessary to page me when you knew I was at home?
I didnt know if you were going to make it.
But I gave you a precise time at which to page me. (He puts the briefcase on a chair by the door then goes over and sits down next to her on the bed.) You cant do that.
Its not like I know the rules for this sort of stuff. (She starts unbuttoning her shirt. Lawrence holds out his hand and stops her. She looks up at him, concerned.) Whats wrong, Dr. Gordon?
Look, it was wrong for me to makes you come here.
But I thought we-
-Please.  Im sorry. (He stands and heads over to the door. Carla remains sitting on the bed. She sniffles slightly but doesnt cry.)
You tell anyone you were here?
No. (She stands, goes over to the phone and answers it.) Hello? (She listens, turns to Lawrence) Its for you. (She holds out the phone.)
For me? Hello?
I know what youre doing...Doctor.
I- (but the other person hangs up, and a dial tone is heard)
I have to go.
What happened?
Ive got to go. (He picks up his briefcase from the chair, and heads out the door.
Who was it?
Who was what?
The person who paid you to follow me, who was it?
He calls himself Bob and he gives me the money up front. Two hundred bucks a night. If Id have known I was gonna end up here, I wouldve asked for a hell of a lot more.
What does that mean? Does that mean you saw what happened to me?
 and went straight home to develop the. Next thing I know Im chained to a pipe in some prehistoric bathroom, staring at the guy Ive been taking shots of all night.
 Clearly, whoever paid you to take the pictures of me is the one who put is in here.
Maybe.
Maybe? What do you mean maybe? Of course it is! What did he look like?
I dont know, he was just a guy. (Shot of inside Adams apartment and an unidentifiable figure towards the back of the room, the image darkened so we cant make him out. The figure slowly takes a step towards us/Adam)
Was he tall, was he skinny, obese, what?
I dont take notes about his appearance. (Shot inside apartment, the figure moves closer)
 You must remember something about him.
I cant. (Shot of inside the apartment, the figure moves closer)
Youre telling me you dont remember a thing about the guy?
I told you, I- (inside apartment, the figure moves closer, just about close enough for identification)
Oh for fucks sake! I give up!
EMPTY_LINE
Tapp! (shot of inside Adams apartment, Tapp handing us/Adam money. Adams/our hand reaches out and takes it quickly. Then, back to Lawrence) Detective Tapp!
Whoa, the guy who paid me to take these photos was not a cop.
No, no, he was discharged from the police force. (Shot of Tapp at his desk with the Amanda video, looking at notes.) He broke down after his partner was killed (Tapp and Sing sitting next to each other in Lawrences office), but that didnt stop him from harassing me. (Lawrence sitting in the car next to Tapp) The guy became obsessed. (Tapp in his current apartment adjusting the camera in the window, then a shot of him leaning over a notebook, going over notes.) Hes convinced himself that I must have somehow been involved with the murders. Hes...hes crazy. (Tapp at the corner desk in his apartment, giving a crazy-sounding Heh heh heh laugh. The shot cuts back to Lawrence, who points accusingly at Adam.) And you helped him.  You took money from him to invade my privacy. How could you do that?
Call it my need to eat.
Right, right. You know what Adam? Youre not a victim of this game, youre a part of it. (Points accusingly at him as he says this.)
Oh really? Obviously this cop thinks youre the one behind it all.
EMPTY_LINE
 What are you more pissed off about? The fact that I took some shots of you or the fact that I took some shots of you while you were cheating on your wife?
I did not cheat on her!!!
What do you care what I think anyway? I dont give a crap if you covered yourself in peanut butter and had a 15-hooker gang bang!
How did I get here? (Adam sits down on the pipe in his corner, leaning forward a bit.) I had...I had everything in order. (he lays down on his side, facing Adam, who watches him with sympathy) My whole life was in perfect order. (He holds up and looks at the picture of Alison and Diana gagged.)
Sweetheart, are you okay? (Diana shakes her head no) Mommy just needs you to be really, really, really strong right now. Im not gonna let anybody hurt you. You got that?  Okay, thats my good girl. (She starts crying as her hands work behind her to loosen the rope around them.)
Hey, was there someone else at your house last night besides your wife and daughter?
No.
Well, theres someone here. (He tosses the photo to Lawrence, whosits up, picks it up and looks at it. After a moment, the shot cuts back to a regular view of them, in the room.)
I know him. (We see the photo as well. It is a shot looking up into Lawrences window, with Zep standing there, looking out, completely unaware of his picture being taken.) Zep! (Cut to a shot of Zep listening. The shot goes back and forth between him as his eyes widen while Lawrence makes his threats.) His name is Zep. Hes an orderly at my hospital. (his voice becomes a growl, furious) Zep. You perverted little psychopath. Im gonna take great pleasure in seeing you pay for this! You bastard fuck!
Look. (Lawrence momentarily breaks from his Zep rage, looks up. The clock reads at 6:00.) Were out of time.
Mommy help me!
Dr. Gordons time is up. Now Ive gotta do what Ive gotta do, and...Im afraid it has to be you that tells him he failed. (He undoes her gag, holds the phone to her head and his gun in front of her chest.)
 Is that you Zep, you bastard!? (Adam gets up from his corner, moves forward slightly) I know its you, you son of a bitch!
Larry?
 Ally?
You failed.
 Hello? Hello?
Dont move, stay on the ground. Give me the phone. Give it to me! (He sits up a bit, carefully slides it to her. He is watching her, looking for an opportunity to overcome her once again. She picks the phone up, still keeping her eyes and her gun at him.) Larry?
Ally! Honey, are you all right?
No! No were not...(Zep starts to move up a bit more, his right hand out, leaning against the edge of the bed. Ally threatens him more fiercely with the gun.) Get down! Larry, where are you?
I dont know. Im being held captive in a room somewhere.
What? What are you talking about?
Im so sorry, Ally.
Honey, we need you here. (Zep slowly readies himself to move forward, wide eyes still staring at Alison.)
Im sorry for everything. Its my fault. Please forgive me. Ive always been happy with you.
Mommy!
Ally!
Ally! (Adam watches him with wide eyes.)
Mommy, help me!
Freeze!
What the fuck?
Mrs. Gordon? (drops old cartridge out of his gun, pops in a new one) Diana?! (His breathing is fast, desperate. He clutches the wound on his leg.) Im gonna kill your husband now, Mrs. Gordon. (He stands up a bit straighter and hobbles over to the computer station, taking keys from the desk and then hobbling down the hall and out the door. We see Tapp groaning, starting to get up. Zep glances over and sees Tapp get to his feet, but quickly hobbles to the doorway and out the door. Tapp starts to follow, just a we bit dazed from the hit. He empties his gun cartridge and replaces it, then runs towards the door, screaming.
Lawrence! (A bit of foamy spittle comes out of Lawrences mouth as the electrocution continues, and then a moment later stops. Adam watches, frightened, unsure. Lawrence is out.) Lawrence, get up!
Car Chase! Zep is in the lead, with Tapp in hot pursuit behind him. They race through the streets as fast as they can.
Lawrence! Get up! I need you! (He leans down and finds a piece of debris on the floor, throws it at Lawrence. It doesnt hit him. He leans down, picks up another, throws it. This one bounces onto the floor but ricochets and hits Lawrence, who begins to stir. A moment, and Lawrence starts to move more, reaching for his head and sitting up. Adam cries out in relief.) Oh, thank God! I thought you were dead!
He...he electrocuted me...
I told you! The same thing happened to me, see? I wasnt lying, see?
FUCK THIS SHIT!!
No!!!! (He lowers his head and cries loudly.)
EMPTY_LINE
I cant be calm! My family needs me! No, God! (He cries and screams, still cant get the phone. He quickly turns and sits up, grabbing the chain and pulling it as he lets out a terrible scream of rage. Adams hands are up clutching his head, trying to keep his cool but having a very hard time.)
 Lawrence, I have a family too! I dont see them, thats my mistake. Its a mistake Id like to fix!
Im gonna kill you you sick asshole!
 Lawrence, stop it!
Lawrence, please calm down! Theres a way out of here, theres a way out!
Lawrence! No! Oh my God! What are you doing?!
What are you doing?! (Lawrence crawls on farther, towards the body.)
What are you...(He suddenly realizes Lawrences intentions. His eyes go wide, and he starts to cry out and beg.)
Oh my God! Oh my God! Lawrence dont! (Lawrence puts the bullet in, then closes the chamber) No! Lawrence, please, Im begging you! (Lawrence aims the gun at Adam) Lawrence, its not me who did this to you!
 You have to die.
 No, I want to live!
 Im sorry...
I want to live!
My family...(he aims and pulls the trigger, hitting Adam in the upper chest area. Adam falls down forward onto the floor, his screams stop.)
Ive done it! Now show them to me! (he continues to cry, dropping the gun next to him, collapsing back down with his forehead to the floor.)
Thank you very much, Officer.
Larry?
 Did you get through to him?
Theres still no answer.
Its all right. Ive called the police. Everythings okay.
You bastard! Ill fucking kill you! (Lawrence grabs Zeps leg as he passes but is too weak and Zep pulls away, looking down at him, moving over to the other side of the body) Ill fucking kill you! You fucking bastard! (Lawrence quickly cralws forwarrd and takes up the gun, pulling the trigger several times, but there are no more bullets. It just clicks.) Ill fucking kill you! You fucking bastard! Ill fucking kill you! Ill fucking kill you!
Youre too late.
Why?
Its the rules.
Youre going to be all right. (Adam stops sobbing for a moment) Youre just wounded in the shoulder. I have to go and get help.
 Dont leave me! No!
No!!  No! No! (Lawrence crawls towards the door.) Lawrence! Lawrence!
 Dont...Dont worry, Ill bring someone back, I promise. (He continues crawling on, out the door while Adam watches him pathetically, still crying and reaching out for him.)
Key...key...
Hello Mr. Hindle. Or as they called you around the hospital: (shot of Zep in the hospital with his cleaning cart, stopping at Johns room) Zep. I want you to make a choice. (Shot of the closet doors in Dianas room flying open, Diana screaming, Alison coming in and seeing him looming over her. Shot of him tying and gagging Alison and Diana. Shot of the photo of Diana and Alison tied and gagged.) Theres a slow-acting poison coursing through your system (shot of Zep watching the monitor, holding his hand to his mouth. He actually looks rather ill) which only I have the antidote for. Will you murder and mother and her child (Zep rocking aback and forth, getting ready to kill Alison and Diana) to save yourself? (Shot of Zep next to Alison, saying Dr. Gordons time is up; holds the phone to her ear. Shot of Zep in the living room, screaming Mrs. Gordon! Shot of Zep on the floor firing up at Tapp.) Listen carefully, if you will. There are rules. (Lawrence on the floor looking up at Zep, asks Why? to which Zep says Its the rules.)
The key to that chain is in the bathtub.
Sick of people who dont appreciate their blessings. Shot of Lawrence with Diana, checking his beeper, on his computer ignoring Diana and Alison, trying to kiss Alison as she pulls away.
Hello Mark, Paul, Amanda, Zep, Adam, Dr. Gordon. (As he says each name, the following image of them appears: A shot of Mark screaming with the safe, Paul in his cage while still alive, Amanda in her mask in the chair, Zep watching on the monitor, Adam holding the tape recorder to his ear, Lawrence holding the tape recorder to his ear. Then, a shot of the Puppet on the video as he says) I want to play a game.
Most people are so ungrateful to be alive. (John turns off the lights at the door, only the green lighting from the hallway illuminating him and then Adam just barely. John moves out the door, slowly.) But not you. (Adam reaches out for him and screams. John turns around and takes the door handle, starting to slide it shut.) Not anymore.
GAME OVER.
