...Rossen... Lieberman... Wachsberg...
...When your name is called go over there... take this over to that table...
...youre in the wrong line, wait over there... you, come over here...
...Biberman... Steinberg... Chilowitz...
From the gentleman.
Do I know him?
Find out who he is.
Stay here.
Let me get this one.
No, put it away, put it away.
What are you drinking, gin?
Groder... Gemeinerowa... Libeskind...
Stern?
Are you Itzhak Stern?
I am.
There's a company you did the books for on Lipowa Street, made what, pots and pans?
 By law, I have to tell you, sir, I'm a Jew.
All right, you've done it -- good company, you think?
It did all right.
I don't know anything about enamelware, do you?
I was just the accountant.
Simple engineering, though, wouldn't you think? Change the machines around, whatever you do, you could make other things, couldn't you?
Field kits, mess kits...
Army contracts.
Once the war ends, forget it, but for now it's great, you could make a fortune. Don't you think?
 I think most people right now have other priorities.
Like what?
Get the contracts and I'm sure you'll do very well. In fact the worse things get the better you'll do. It was a "pleasure."
The contracts? That's the easy part. Finding the money to buy the company, that's hard.
You know anybody?
Jews, yeah. Investors.
 Jews can no longer own businesses, sir, that's why this one's for sale.
Well, they wouldn't own it, I'd own it. I'd pay them back in product. They can trade it on the black market, do whatever they want, everybody's happy.
Pots and pans.
 Something they can hold in their hands.
I don't know anybody who'd be interested in that.
 They should be.
What's that?
You don't recognize it? Maybe that's because it's not what I asked for.
You asked for shoe polish.
My buyers sold it to a guy who sold it to the Army. But by the time it got there -- because of the cold -- it broke, the whole truckload.
 So I'm responsible for the weather?
I asked for metal, you gave me glass.
This is not my problem.
Look it up.
This is not your problem? Everybody wants to know who I got it from, and I'm going to tell them.
Metal.
Let's say this is what you give me. These are fees I have to pay some guys. This is my commission. This is what I bring you back in Occupation currency.
That's a nice shirt.
You don't know where I could find a shirt like that.
Like this?
 There's nothing in the stores.
You have any idea what a shirt like this costs?
Nice things cost money.
How many?
I don't know, ten or twelve. That's a good color. Dark blues, grays.
Write down your measurements.
I'm going to need some other things. As things come up.
The SS doesn't own the trains, somebody's got to pay. Whether it's a passenger car or a livestock car, it doesn't matter -- which, by the way, you have to see. You have to set aside an afternoon, go down to the station and see this.
So you got thousands of fares that have to be paid. Since it's the SS that's reserved the trains, logically they should pay. But this is a lot of money.  The Jews. They're the ones riding the trains, they should pay. So you got Jews paying their own fares to ride on cattle cars to God knows where. They pay the SS full fare, the SS turns around, pays the railroad a reduced excursion fare, and pockets the difference.
 Excuse me.
There's nothing more sacred than marriage. No happier an occasion than one's wedding day. I wish you all the best.
I go to the bank, I go in, they tell me my account's been placed in Trust. In Trust? What are they talking about, whose Trust? The Germans'. I look around. Now I see that everybody's arguing, they can't get to their money either.
This is true?
I'll take you there.
Let me understand. The Nazis have taken your money. So because they've done this to you, you expect me to go unpaid. That's what you're saying.
That makes sense to you?
I want you to spit on it. I want you to walk past, spit on it, and stand over there.
I haven't been to temple must be fifty years.  Nor have I been invited.
 You don't approve of the way I make my living? I'm a bad man, I do bad things?
I've done some things... but I won't do this.
What does this mean? Of all of you, there's only one who has the guts to say no? One? And he doesn't even believe? (no one, of course answer him) I come in here, I ask you to do something no one should ever ask. And you do it?  What won't you do?
You, sir, I respect.
The rest of you... ...are beneath his contempt.
Goodbye, Jews.
What's this?
Ghetto Police. I'm a policeman now, can you believe it?
Yeah, I can.
For each thousand you invest, you take from the loading dock five hundred kilos of product a month -- to begin in July and to continue for one year -- after which time, we're even.  That's it.
Not good enough.
Not good enough? Look where you're living. Look where you've been put. "Not good enough." (he almost laughs at the squalor) A couple of months ago, you'd be right. Not anymore.
Money's still money.
No, it isn't, that's why we're here.
Did I call this meeting? You told Mr. Stern you wanted to speak to me. I'm here. Now you want to negotiate? The offer's withdrawn.
How do we know you'll do what you say?
Because I said I would. What do you want, a contract? To be filed where? (he slips into his coat) I said what I'll do, that's our contract.
The standard SS rate for Jewish skilled labor is seven Marks a day, five for unskilled and women. This is what you pay the Economic Office, the laborers themselves receive nothing. Poles you pay wages. Generally, they get a little more. Are you listening?
What was that about the SS, the rate, the... ?
The Jewish worker's salary, you pay it directly to the SS, not to the worker. He gets nothing.
But it's less. It's less than what I would pay a Pole. That's the point I'm trying to make. Poles cost more.
Why should I hire Poles?
I'm a teacher.
Not essential work, stand over there.
I'm a metal polisher.
Good.
I'd never ask you for money, you know that. I don't even like talking about it -- money, favors -- I find it very awkward, it makes me very uncomfortable --
No, look. It's the others. They're the ones causing these delays.
What others?
Whoever. They're the ones. They'd appreciate some kind of gesture from me.
I should send it to you, though, don't you think? You can forward it on? I'd be grateful.
That'd be fine.
Done. Let's not talk about it anymore, let's have a good time.
Sit down.
Oh, come on.
My father was fond of saying you need three things in life. A good doctor, a forgiving priest and a clever accountant. The first two...
 Just pretend for Christ's sake.
Thank you.
Yes?
Who is it?
She's so embarrassed -- look at her --
You know what, you'd like her.
Oskar, please --
What --
I don't have to like her just because you do. It doesn't work that way.
You would, though. That's what I'm saying.
Goodbye. It was a pleasure meeting you.
You've done well here.
You look great.
Careful of the pavement --
-- Mrs. Schindler.
Mrs. Schindler.
It's not a charade, all this?
A charade? How could it be a charade?
There's no way I could have known this before, but there was always something missing. In every business I tried, I see now it wasn't me that was failing, it was this thing, this missing thing. Even if I'd known what it was, there's nothing I could have done about it, because you can't create this sort of thing. And it makes all the difference in the world between success and failure.
Luck.
War.
What?
I feel like an old-fashioned couple. It feels good.
Should I stay?
 It's a beautiful city.
Should I stay?
 It's up to you.
No, it's up to you.
Promise me no doorman or maitre 'd will presume I am anyone other than Mrs. Schindler... and I'll stay.
Your luggage will follow you. Make sure it's clearly labeled. Leave your luggage on the platform.
Every other time it's been all right. This time when I weigh the truck, I see he's heavy, he's loaded too much. I point this out to him, I tell him to wait, he tells me he's got a new arrangement with Mr. Schindler --  -- that you know all about it and it's okay with you.
It's "okay" with me?
How heavy was he?
Not that much, just too much for it to be a mistake -- 200 kilos.
 You're sure.
If you or anyone acting as an agent for you comes to my factory again, I'll have you arrested.
It was a mistake.
It was a mistake? What was a mistake? How do you know what I'm talking about?
All right, it wasn't a mistake, but it was one time.
We had a deal, you broke it. One phone call and your whole family is dead.
I gave you money.
How you feeling, all right?
Yeah.
What's the matter, everything all right at home?  Mila's okay?
She's good.
Good.
I could try to read this or I could eat my lunch while it's till hot. We're doing well?
Yes.
Better this month than last?
Yes.
Any reason to think next month will be worse?
The war could end.
 What?
 There's a machinist outside who'd like to thank you personally for giving him a job.
He asks every day. It'll just take a minute. He's very grateful.
Mr. Lowenstein?
I want to thank you, sir, for giving me the opportunity to work.
You're welcome, I'm sure you're doing a great job.
The SS beat me up. They would have killed me, but I'm essential to the war effort, thanks to you.
That's great.
I work hard for you. I'll continue to work hard for you.
That's great, thanks.
God bless you, sir.
Yeah, okay.
You're a good man.
Okay, Mr. Lowenstein.
He saved my life.
Yes, he did.
God bless him.
Yes.
Don't ever do that to me again.
Do what?
Close the door.
It's got nothing to do with reality, Oskar, I know it and you know it, it's a matter of national priority to these guys. It's got a ritual significance to them, Jews shoveling snow.
I lost a day of production. I lost a worker. I expect to be compensated.
File a grievance with the Economic Office, it's your right.
Would it do any good?
No.
I think you're going to have to put up with a lot of snow shoveling yet.
A one-armed machinist, Oskar?
 He was a metal press operator, quite skilled.
Unlike your radiators -- and your boxes -- my products aren't for sale on the open market. This company has only one client, the German Army. And lately I've been having trouble fulfilling my obligations to my client. With your help, I hope the problem can be solved. The problem, simply, is space.
I'd like you to consider a proposal which I think you'll find equitable. I'd like you to think about it and get back to me as soon as --
Excuse me -- do you really think this is appropriate?
I can appreciate your problem. If I had any space I could lease you, I would. I don't. I'm sorry.
Me neither, sorry.
I don't want to lease your facilities, I want to buy them. I'm prepared to offer you fair market value. And to let you stay on, if you want, as supervisors.  On salary.
You've got to be kidding.
 Thanks for the drink.
You try to be fair to people, they walk out the door; I've never understood that. What's next?
Christmas presents.
Ah, yes.
Oskar...
All right.
Oskar Schindler?
We have a warrant to take your company's business records with us. And another to take you.
Am I permitted to have my secretary cancel my appointments for the day?
You live very well.
This standard of living comes entirely from legitimate sources, I take it?
As an SS supplier, you have a moral obligation to desist from blackmarket dealings. You're in business to support the war effort, not to fatten --
 You know? When my friends ask, I'd love to be able to tell them you treated me with the utmost courtesy and respect.
Chances of getting a bottle of vodka pretty good?
Yes, sir.
Wait a minute.
Pajamas.
I'm sorry to disturb you, sir. Whenever you're ready, you're free to leave.
I'd advise you not to get too comfortable. Sooner or later, law prevails. No matter who your friends are.
You expect me to walk home, or what?
 Bring a car around for Mr. Schindler.
If you'd return the ledgers to my office I'd appreciate it.
Excuse me -- hey --  They're working.
He's essential. Without him, everything comes to a grinding halt. If that happens --
Itzhak Stern?  He's on the list.
He is.
Well, let's find him.
He's on the list. If he were an essential worker, he would not be on the list. He's on the list. You can't have him.
I'm talking to a clerk.
What's your name?
Sir, the list is correct.
I didn't ask you about the list, I asked you your name.
Klaus Tauber.
The gentleman thinks a mistake's been made.
My plant manager is somewhere on this train. If it leaves with him on it, it'll disrupt production and the Armaments Board will want to know why.
 Is he on the list?
Yes, sir.
 The list is correct, sir. There's nothing I can do.
May as well get your name while you're here.
My name? My name is Kunder. Sergeant Kunder. What's yours?
Schindler.
Sergeant, Mr. Tauber, thank you very much. I think I can guarantee you you'll both be in Southern Russia before the end of the month. Good evening.
There he is.
Open it.
Initial it, please. (Schindler initials the change) And this...
It makes no difference to us, you understand -- this one, that one. It's the inconvenience to the list. It's the paperwork.
I somehow left my work card at home. I tried to tell them it was a mistake, but they --
I'm sorry. It was stupid.  Thank you.
Make a nice driveway.
This street divides the ghetto just about in half. On the right -- Ghetto A: civil employees, industry workers, so on. On the left, Ghetto B: surplus labor, the elderly mostly. Which is where you'll probably want to start.
Of course that's entirely up to you.
She says the foundation was poured wrong, she's got to take it down. I told her it's a barracks, not a fucking hotel, fucking Jew engineer.
The entire foundation has to be dug up and re-poured. If it isn't, the thing will collapse before it's even completed.
 Shoot her.
You argued with my man.  Shoot her.
Sir...
I'm sure you're right.
That's somebody who knew what they were doing. That's somebody I needed.  Take it down, re-pour it, rebuild it, like she said.
Today is history. The young will ask with wonder about this day. Today is history and you are a part of it.
When, elsewhere, they were footing the blame for the Black Death, Kazimierz the Great, so called, told the Jews they could come to Cracow. They came.
They trundled their belongings into this city, they settled, they took hold, they prospered.
For six centuries, there has been a Jewish Cracow.
By this weekend, those six centuries, they're a rumor. They never happened. Today is history.
 Amon... Christ...
Your machinery will be moved and installed by the SS at no cost to you. You will pay no rent, no maintenance --
No, no, come on, sit --
How you doing?
We started without you.
Good.
Please.
I miss anything important?
I was explaining to Mr. Bosch and Mr. Madritsch some of the benefits of moving their factories into Plaszow.
Oh, good, yeah.
Since your labor is housed on-site, it's available to you at all times. You can work them all night if you want. Your factory policies, whatever they've been in the past, they'll continue to be, they'll be respected --
I'm sorry.
You know, they told me you were going to be trouble -- Czurda and Scherner.
You're kidding.
He looks great, though, doesn't he? I have to know -- where do you get a suit like that? what is that, silk?  It's great.
I'd say I'd get you one but the guy who made it, he's probably dead, I don't know.
Something wonderful's happened, do you know what it is? Without planning it, we've reached that happy point in our careers where duty and financial opportunity meet.
I go to work the other day, there's nobody there. Nobody tells me about this, I have to find out, I have to go in, everybody's gone --
They're not gone, they're here.
They're mine!
Every day that goes by, I'm losing money. Every worker that is shot, costs me money -- I have to get somebody else, I have to train them --
We're going to be making so much money, none of this is going to matter --
 It's bad business.
 Some of the boys went crazy, what're you going to do? You're right, it's bad business, but it's over with, it's done.  Occasionally, sure, okay, you got to make an example. But that's good business.
Scherner told me something else about you.
Yeah, what's that?
That you know the meaning of the word gratitude. That it's not some vague thing with you like with some guys.
True.
You want to stay where you are. You got things going on the side, things are good, you don't want anybody telling you what to do -- I can understand all that.  What you want is your own sub-camp.
Do you have any idea what's involved? The paperwork alone? Forget you got to build it all, getting the fucking permits, that's enough to drive you crazy. Then the engineers show up. They stand around and they argue about drainage -- I'm telling you, you'll want to shoot somebody, I've been through it, I know.
Well, you've been through it. You know. You could make things easier for me.
I'd be grateful.
You have the Poles beat the Czechs, you have the Czechs beat the Poles, that way everybody stays in line.
All I have is Jews.
-- she's seventy years old, she's been there forever -- they bomb her house. Everything's gone. The furniture, everything.
 Thank God she wasn't there.
I was thinking maybe you could help her out. Some plates and mugs, some stew pots, I don't know. Say half a gross of everything?
She run an orphanage, your aunt?
She's old. What she can't use maybe she can sell.
You want it sent directly to her or through you?
Through me, I think. I'd like to enclose a card.
Your wife must be a saint.
She is.
You're not a soldier?
No, dear.
There's a picture. Private Schindler? Blanket around his shoulders over in Kharkov?
Happened to what's his name -- up in Warsaw -- and he was bigger than you, Oskar.
Toebbens.
Happened to Toebbens. Almost. Himmler goes up to Warsaw, tells the armament guys, "Get the fucking Jews out of Toebbens' factory and put Toebbens in the army," and -- "and sent him to the Front." I mean, the Front.
It's true. Never happen in Cracow, though, we all love you too much.
I pay you too much.
You held back Stern. You held back the one man most important to my business.
He's important to my business.
What do you want for him, I'll give it to you.
I want him.  Come on, let's go inside, let's have a good time.
Here.
This, I don't know, maybe you can trade it for something.
Thank you.
I got to go, I'll see you.
Oskar --
There's a guy. This thing happened. Goeth came into the metalworks --
What are you making?
Hinges, sir.
I got some workers coming in tomorrow... Where the hell they from again?
Yugoslavia.
Yugoslavia. I got to make room.
Make me a hinge.
Another.
That's very good. What I don't understand, though, is -- you've been working since what, about six this morning? Yet such a small pile of hinges?
 Christ --
God damn it --
The guy can turn out a hinge in less than a minute? Why the long story?
Thank you, sir.
Oh, yeah. You're welcome.
Nobody knows who stole the chicken. A man walks around with a chicken, nobody notices this.
Still nobody knows.
There we go.
It was you? You committed this crime?
No, sir.
You know who, though.
Him!
Yeah, sure, bring him over.
Thank you, sir.
 That's okay.
Thank --
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
He won't see you.
Miss Krause.
How do you do?
Pernod? Cognac?
No, thank you.
So.
They say that no one dies here. They say your factory is a haven. They say you are good.
Who says that?
Everyone.
My name is Regina Perlman, not Elsa Krause. I've been living in Cracow on false papers since the ghetto massacre.  My parents are in Plaszow. They're old. They're killing old people in Plaszow now. They bury them up in the forest. I have no money. I borrowed these clothes. Will you bring them here?
I don't do that. You've been misled. I ask one thing: whether or not a worker has certain skills. That's what I ask and that's what I care about, get out of my office.
Cry and I'll have you arrested, I swear to God.
People die, it's a fact of life.
He wants to kill everybody? Great. What am I supposed to do, bring everybody over? Is that what you think? Yeah, send them over to Schindler, send them all. His place is a "haven," didn't you know? It's not a factory, it's not an enterprise of any kind, it's a haven for people with no skills whatsoever.
You think I don't know what you're doing? You're so quiet all the time? I know.
 Are you losing money?
No, I'm not losing money, that's not the point.
What other point is --
 It's dangerous. It's dangerous, to me, personally.
You have to understand, Goeth's under enormous pressure. You have to think of it in his situation. He's got this whole place to run, he's responsible for everything that goes on here, all these people -- he's got a lot of things to worry about. And he's got the war. Which brings out the worst in people. Never the good, always the bad. Always the bad. But in normal circumstances, he wouldn't be like this. He'd be all right. There'd be just the good aspects of him. Which is a wonderful crook. A guy who loves good food, good wine, the ladies, making money...
And killing.
I'll admit it's a weakness. I don't think he enjoys it.  All right, he does enjoy it, so what? What do you expect me to do about it?
There's nothing you can do. I'm not asking you to do anything. You came into my office.
Perlman, husband and wife.
Give it to Goldberg, have him send them over.
They don't fear us because we have the power to kill, they fear us because we have the power to kill arbitrarily. A man commits a crime, he should know better. We have him killed, we feel pretty good about it. Or we kill him ourselves and we feel even better. That's not power, though, that's justice. That's different than power. Power is when we have every justification to kill -- and we don't. That's power. That's what the emperors had. A man stole something, he's brought in before the emperor, he throws himself down on the floor, he begs for mercy, he knows he's going to die... and the emperor pardons him. This worthless man. He lets him go. That's power. That's power.
Amon the Good.
I'm sorry, sir, I'm almost done.
Oh, that's all right.
I have to report, sir, I've been unable to remove the stains from your bathtub.
What are you using?
Soap, sir.
 Soap? Not lye?
Go ahead, go on, leave. I pardon you.
If he didn't steal so much, I could hide it. If he's steal with some discretion...
There are fifteen thousand people here --
Goeth says there's twenty-five.
There are fifteen. He wants to say sixteen, seventeen, all right, maybe he can get away with it, but ten thousand over? It's stupid.
Stern, do me a favor, get out of here. You want to argue about it, go tell Goeth.
The SS auditors keep coming around, looking over the books -- Goeth knows this --
-- you'd think he'd have the common sense to see what's coming. No, he steals with complete impunity.
So you'll be rid of him.
If Plaszow is closed, they'll have to send us somewhere else. Where -- who knows? Gross-Rosen maybe. Maybe Auschwitz.
I'll talk to him.
I think it's too late.
Well, I'll talk to somebody. I'll take care of it.
What's he done that's so bad -- take money? That's a crime? Come on, what are we here for, to fight a war? We're here to make money, all of us.
There's taking money and there's taking money, you know that. He's taking money.
The place produces nothing. I shouldn't say that -- nothing it produces reaches the Army. That's not all right.
So I'll talk to him about it.
He's a friend of yours, you want to help him out. Tell me this, though -- has he ever once shown you his appreciation? I've yet to see it. Never a courtesy. Never a thank you note. He forgets my wife at Christmas time --
He's got no style, we all know that. So, we should hang him for it?
He's stealing from you, Oskar.
Of course he's stealing from me, we're in business together. What is this? I'm sitting here, suddenly everybody's talking like this is something bad. We take from each other, we take from the Army, everybody uses everybody, it works out, everybody's happy.
Not like him.
Yeah, well, in some eyes it doesn't matter the amount we steal, it's that we do it. Each of us sitting at this table.
He doesn't deserve your loyalty. More important, he's not worth you making threats against us.
Did I threaten anybody here? I stated a simple fact.
Come on, let's watch the girls.
...On behalf of the workers... sir... I wish you a happy birthday...
Thank you.
Thank them for me.
Commandant, sir.
My mechanic.
What about my wife?
This is our place.
I tried to call you, I'm running a little late, this is taking longer than I thought. Have a drink.
What's going on?
I got a shipment of Hungarians coming in, I got to make room for them. It's always something.
They're complaining now? They don't know what complaining is.
What do you say we get your fire brigade out here and hose down the cars?
Bring the fire trucks!
What?
This is really cruel, Oskar, you're giving them hope. You shouldn't do that, that's cruel.
I've got some 200-meter hoses back at D.E.F., we can reach the cars down at the end.
Hujar!
What does he think he's saving them from?
Oh, my God.
I'm not saying you'll regret it, but you might. I want you to be aware of that.
We'll risk it.
All right, sure, it's a nice day, I'll go for a drive with you guys.
Where are we going?
I violated the Race and Resettlement Act. Though I doubt they can point out the actual provision to me.  I kissed a Jewish girl.
He likes women. He likes good-looking women. He sees a good-looking woman, he doesn't think. This guy has so many women. They love him. He's married, he's got all these women. All right, she was Jewish, he shouldn't have done it. But you didn't see this girl. I saw this girl. This girl was very good-looking.
They cast a spell on you, you know, the Jews. You work closely with them like I do, you see this. They have this power, it's like a virus. Some of my men are infected with this virus. They should be pitied, not punished. They should receive treatment, because this is as real as typhus. I see this all the time.
It's a matter of money? We can discuss that. That'd be all right with me.
You're offering me a bribe?
A "bribe?" No, no, please come on... a gratuity.
Sit down.
Hello, Amon.
Sir.
I want to hear "Gloomy Sunday" again.
We give you Jewish girls at five marks a day, Oskar, you should kiss us, not them.
God forbid you ever get a real taste for Jewish skirt. There's no future in it. No future. They don't have a future. And that's not just good old- fashioned Jew-hating talk. It's policy now.
"Gloomy Sunday" again.
-- We can process at Treblinka, if everything is working? I don't know, maybe two thousand units a day.
Now Auschwitz. Now you're talking. What I got is nothing, it's like a... a machine. Auschwitz, though, now there's a death factory. There, they know how to do it. There, they know what they're doing.
Enough -- Jesus -- God --
Can you believe this?
I'm trying to live my life, they come up with this? I got to find every body buried up here? And burn it?
You took my workers.
 They're taking mine. When I said they didn't have a future I didn't mean tomorrow.  Auschwitz.
When?
I don't know. Soon.
This is good. I'm out of business and he's catching tadpoles with his son.
Hey, how you doing?
Let me buy you a drink.
How do you do?  What can I get you, what're you drinking?
Things worked out. I made some money over there, had some laughs, you know. It was good.
Now I'm back, and you know what I'm going to do now? I'm going to have a good time. So are you.
Who is he?
Goddamn it.
You want these people.
These people, my people, I want my people.
What are you, Moses? What is this? Where's the money in this? What's the scam?
It's good business.
Oh, this is "good business" in your opinion. You've got to move them, the equipment, everything to Czechoslovakia -- it doesn't make any sense.
Look --
You're not telling me something.
It's good for me -- I know them, I'm familiar with them. It's good for you -- you'll be compensated. It's good for the Army. You know what I'm going to make?
Artillery shells. Tank shells. They need that. Everybody's happy.
Yeah, sure.
You're probably scamming me somehow. If I'm making a hundred, you got to be making three.
If you admit to making three, then it's four, actually. But how?
I just told you.
You did, but you didn't.
Yeah, all right, don't tell me, I'll go along with it, it's just irritating to me I can't figure it out.
All you have to do is tell me what it's worth to you. What's a person worth to you.
What's one worth to you? That's the question.
Poldek Pfefferberg... Mila Pfefferberg...
A virus...
You can do the same thing I'm doing. There's nothing stopping you.
I've done enough for the Jews.
The investors.
All of them. Szerwitz, his family.
Four hundred, four fifty --
More.
About six hundred --
More.
Eight hundred, give or take.
 Give or take what, Stern -- how many -- count them.
That's it.
You can finish that page.
What did Goeth say? You just told him how many you needed?
I'm buying them. I'm paying him. I give him money, he gives me the people.  If you were still working for me I'd expect you to talk me out of it, it's costing me a fortune.
Give him the list, he'll sign it, he'll get the people ready. I have to go back to Brinnlitz, to take care of things on that end, I'll see you there.
Finish the page.
This is my home.
I was born here, my wife was born here, my mother is buried here, this is my home.
Do you really think I'd bring a thousand Jewish criminals into my home?
These are skilled munitions workers -- they are essential to the war effort --
-- It is my duty to supervise them -- and it is your duty to allow me --
Am I on the list?
What list is that?
The good list? Well, that depends, doesn't it?
Hey, Poldek, how's it going? (Pfefferberg ignores him) You know about the list? You're on it.
Of course I'm on it.
You want to stay on it? What do you got for me?
What do I got for you?
Takes diamonds to stay on this list.
I'll kill you, that's what I got for you.
All right, all right, all right.
You'll be interested to know I received a cable this morning from the Personnel Office, Plaszow. The women have left. They should be arriving here sometime tomorrow.
Where are the clerks?
They're in Auschwitz.
Your friend Amon Goeth has been arrested.
 I'm sorry to hear that.
There are some things that are unclear. We need to talk.
I'd love to, it'll have to wait until I get back. I have to leave.
All right, okay, let's talk.
In Breslau.
Breslau? I can't go to Breslau. Not now.
How old are you, Mother?
 Sir, a mistake's been made. We're not supposed to be here, we work for Oskar Schindler. We're Schindler Jews.
And who on earth is Oskar Schindler?
He had a factory in Cracow. Enamelware.
A potmaker?
Everything you say will be held in confidence. You are not under investigation. You are not under investigation. Mr. Goeth is. He is being held on charges of embezzlement and racketeering. You're here at his request to corroborate his denials. Our information onto his financial speculations comes from many sources. On his behalf there is only you. We know you are close friends. We know this is hard for you. But we must ask you --
He stole our country blind.
Where's Schindler now?
You're right, a clerical error has bee made.  Let me offer you this in apology for the inconvenience. I have a shipment coming in tomorrow, I'll cut you three hundred from it. New ones. These are fresh.
The train comes, we turn it around, it's yours.
I appreciate it. I want these.
You shouldn't get stuck on names.
That's right, it creates a lot of paperwork.
These are mine. They're on the list. These are my workers. They should be on the train.
They're skilled munition workers. They're essential.
They're boys.
Yes.
Their fingers. They polish the insides of shell casings. How else do you expect me to polish the inside of a 45 millimeter shell casing?
Under Department W provisions, it is unlawful to kill a worker without just cause. Under the Businesses Compensation Fund I am entitled to file damage claims for such deaths. If you shoot without thinking, you go to prison and I get paid, that's how it works. So there will be no summary executions here. There will be no interference of any kind with production. In hopes of ensuring that, guards will no longer be allowed on the factory floor without my authorization.
For your cooperation, you have my gratitude.
How's it going?
Good. It's taken a while to calibrate the machines, but it's going good now.
Good.
This isn't right, is it?
There. That looks right.
How's it going, Rabbi?
Good, sir.
Sun's going down.
It is Friday, isn't it?
Is it?
You should be preparing for the Sabbath, shouldn't you? What are you doing here?
I've got some wine in my office. Why don't we go over there, I'll give it to you. Come on, let's go.
Come on.
What is that?
I want you to come work for me.
You don't have to live with me, I wouldn't ask that.  It's a nice place. You'd like it. It looks awful. You get used to that.
All right --  We can spend time together that way. We can see each other, see how it goes -- without the strain of -- whatever you want to call it when a man, a husband and a wife go out to dinner, go have a drink, go to a party, you know. This way we'll see each other at work, there we are, same place, we see how it goes...
Itzhak Stern, Emilie Schindler. My wife.
How do you do?
How do you do?
Stern is my accountant and friend.
Emilie's offered to work in the clinic. To... work there.
 That's very generous of you.
Yes.
It was a pleasure meeting you.
Pleasure meeting you.
Can you fix it? The radio.
What's wrong with it?
How should I know? It's broken. See what you can do.
We need to talk.
Stern.
They arrived.
They arrived, can you believe it?
We've received a complaint from the Armaments Board. A very angry complaint. The artillery shells, the tank shells, rocket casings -- apparently all of them -- have failed quality-control tests.
Well, that's to be expected. They have to understand. These are start- up problems. This isn't pots and pans, this is a precise business. I'll write them a letter.
They're withholding payment.
Well, sure. So would I. So would you. I wouldn't worry about it. We'll get it right one of these days.
There's a rumor you've been going around miscalibrating the machines. (Schindler doesn't deny it) I don't think that's a good idea.
 No?
They could close us down.
All right. Call around, find out where we can buy shells and buy them. We'll pass them off as ours.
I know what you're saying, but I don't see the difference.
You don't? I do. I see a difference.
You'll lose money. That's one difference.
Fewer shells will be made.
Stern, if this factory ever produces a shell that can actually be fired... I'll be very unhappy.
Hey.
Department W does not forbid my presence on the factory floor. That is a lie.
Shoot him. Shoot him!
Shoot him without a hearing. Come on.
He sabotaged the machine.
The machine's broken?
The prisoner is under the jurisdiction of Section D. I'll preside over the hearing.
But the machine.
The machine is under the authorization of the Armaments Inspectorate. I will preside over the hearing.
I'm unfamiliar with the Hilo machines. I don't know why I was assigned there.
If you're not skilled at armaments work, you shouldn't be here.
I'm a lathe operator.
Sir?
I did adjust the pressure controls.
What?
I know that much about them. Somebody had set the pressure controls wrong. I had to adjust --
The stupidity of these people. I wish they were capable of sabotaging a machine.
Get him out of my sight.
 Isn't this nice.
Oskar, good of you to come.
Are you kidding, I never miss a party. Police Chief Rasch, my wife Emilie.
How do you do?
You have a lovely home. It is nice. Big.
Thank you.
I need a drink.
Oh, God, you don't have a drink?
 Wine?
Your husband's a very generous man.
 He's always been.
I need guns.
One of these days the Russians are going to show up unannounced at my gate. I'd like the chance to defend myself. I'd like my wife to have that chance. My civilian engineers. My secretary.
 We're losing the war, aren't we.
It kind of looks that way.
 Pistols?
Pistols, rifles, carbines ...  I'd be grateful.
 Careful.
Stern.
Excuse me.
I'll talk to you later.
No, no, what, what is it?
Do you have any money I don't know about? Hidden away someplace?
No.
Why, am I broke?
Poldek.
It's been suggested I cremate them in my furnaces. As a Catholic I will not. As a human being I will not.
There's an area beyond the church reserved for the burial of suicides. Maybe I can convince the parish council to allow them to be buried there.
These aren't suicides.
These are victims of a great murder.
What's he doing here?
Probably looking for a handout.
Thank you.
Where are the guards?
The guards aren't allowed on the factory floor. They make my workers nervous.
I'll discipline him later.
It's time the guards came into the factory.
The unconditional surrender of Germany has just been announced. At midnight tonight the war is over.
Tomorrow, you'll begin the process of looking for survivors of your families. In many cases you won't find them. After six long years of murder, victims are being mourned throughout the world.
We've survived. Some of you have come up to me and thanked me. Thank yourselves. Thank your fearless Stern, and others among you, who, worrying about you, have faced death every moment.  Thank you.
You've shown extraordinary discipline. You've behaved humanely here. You should be proud.
I'm a member of the Nazi party. I'm a munitions manufacturer. I'm a profiteer of slave labor, I'm a criminal. At midnight, you will be free and I will be hunted.  I'll remain with you until five minutes after midnight After which time, and I hope you'll forgive me, I have to flee.
In memory of the countless victims among your people, I ask us to observe three minutes of silence.
I know you've received orders from our Commandant -- which he has received from his superiors -- to dispose of the population of this camp.
Now would be the time to do it. They're all here. This is your opportunity.
Or...  ...you could leave. And return to your families as men instead of murderers.
We've written a letter trying to explain things. In case you're captured. Every worker has signed it.
Thank you.
It's Hebrew. It says, 'Whoever saves one life, saves the world.'
 I could've got more out...
 I could've got more... if I'd just... I don't know, if I'd just... I could've got more...
Oskar, there are twelve hundred people who are alive because of you. Look at them.
If I'd made more money... I threw away so much money, you have no idea. If I'd just...
There will be generations because of what you did.
I didn't do enough.
You did so much.
This car. Goeth would've bought this car. Why did I keep the car? Ten people, right there, ten more I could've got.  This pin --
Two people. This is gold. Two more people. He would've given me two for it. At least one. He would've given me one. One more. One more person. A person, Stern. For this. One more. I could've gotten one more person I didn't.
They killed so many people... (Stern, weeping too, embraces him) They killed so many people...
It's all over.
We know.
 So what are you doing? You're free to go home.
When the Russians arrive. Until then we're staying here.
Hello?
You have been liberated by the Soviet Army.
What's wrong?
Have you been in Poland?
I just came from Poland.
Are there any Jews left?
Where should we go?
I don't know. Don't go east, that's for sure, they hate you there.  I wouldn't go west either if I were you.
We could use some food.
Isn't that a town over there?
Hey, how you doing?
Good. How's it going?
Things are great, things are great.
What are you doing?
I'm having a drink, come on in, we'll have a drink.
I mean where have you been? Nobody's seen you around for a while.
 I've been here. I guess I haven't been out.
I thought maybe you'd like to come over, have some dinner, some of the people are coming over.
Yeah? Yeah, that'd be nice, let me get my coat.
Mila's good?
She's good.
Kids are good? Let's stop at a store on the way so I can buy them something.
They don't need anything. They just want to see you.
Yeah, I know. I'd like to pick up something for them. It'll only take a minute.
