SUBTITLE Berkeley, California -1981-
Mark O'Brien has been going to UC Berkeley since 1978. That's O'Brien in the motorized gurney heading for class last week.
He had polio when he was 6 years old. The disease left his body crippled but his mind remained sharp and alert, and since he wanted to be a writer, Mark O'Brien entered Cal to major in English and learn his trade.
Graduation Today I hear the crowd's applause Receive congratulations from my friends Today I ask if I've found a place among the rest I hope you see a man upon this stage Who studied...read..wrote, and passed the test In cap and gown, diploma on my chair
And so, Mark O'Brien graduates from Cal, one of 250 English majors to receive degrees today.
If this report tells us anything, it is that a disability is not necessarily a handicap.
Mark O'Brien teaches us that courage and perseverance overcome obstacles. With Mark O'Brien at UC Berkeley, Bill Hillman, Channel Five Eyewitness News.
It is about 4.00 a.m. All is quiet. We follow a mean-looking alley cat to the front of a modest, ground-floor apartment. It pauses, then slinks round the side, onto a ledge and in through a partially-opened window.
The cat comes through the window, hops onto the floor and quickly finds a nice little plate of food scraps that has been set out specially. As it settles down to its meal, we become aware of a heavy and regular sound, like a ship's pump, coming from somewhere close-by.
Breathing Look you This most excellent canopy, the air, Presses down upon me At 15 pounds per square inch A dense, heavy, blue-glowing ocean. Teasing me with its nearness and immensity. And all I get is a thin stream of it. A finger's width of the rope that ties me to life.
Shit!
Okay, just focus. Now, scratch with your mind, okay, your mind, scratch with your mind...
Good morning.
JOAN, a solid but slovenly woman in her late 30s, walks up to Mark's front door, takes a key from her purse and lets herself in.
She comes in.
Good morning.
You're late.
Joan I swear this was one crazy bitch Who'd swing me about enough to scare me, But careful enough so she could say: "Now what was all the yelling about? You polios are screamers. Always were." I didn't say a word, but typed my skinny novel in my head, And thought about revenge.
Joan pushes Mark along in a gurney, similar, but slightly different from the one in the news clip. There are no mirrors and no motor, just an oxygen tank, a tube and a mouthpiece just next to Mark's mouth. Most of him is covered with a colorful blanket. The whole thing is a sports-coupe version of his iron lung.
Would you mind if I asked you a favor?
You need help moving furniture?
I need an advance on my pay, like two weeks. That's not a big ask, is it?
What if you don't last another two weeks? 4A.
Joan never failed to put me in a crappy mood. It was also a drag that I was no longer allowed to use my other gurney, the self-propelled one. It had caused a couple of spectacular accidents.
Basically, in spite of all the mirrors, I couldn't see where I was going.
FATHER BRENDAN is giving a sermon. Mark listens with satisfaction. There are not many others there.
The Apostle Luke tells us that when Elizabeth spoke to Mary, the baby in her womb leapt - "For lo, as soon as the voice of thy salutation sounded in mine ears, the babe leaped in my womb for joy". So Mary's fear and apprehension slowly gave way to pride and purpose. Elizabeth saw the greatness in Mary. "Blessed art thou among women". Elizabeth, pregnant herself with St. John, felt the power of this wondrous woman. It was Elizabeth, and her absolute faith, that gave Mary the courage she was lacking, and she gave thanks saying: "My soul doth magnify the Lord, and my spirit hath rejoiced in God my Saviour".
May the peace of the Lord be with you.
And also with you.
I'm definitely a true believer. But I believe in a God with a sense of humor. A wicked sense of humor. One who created me in His own image.
Hello. I'm Father Brendan. I don't think we've met.
No, we haven't. I'm Mark O'Brien. I knew Father Seamus very well. I'm sorry that he's not here any more.
As are many others. I'm going to do my best to fill his shoes. I understand you'd like me to hear your confession.
Yes, I would. By the way, I enjoyed Mass. I liked your tone.
Thank you.
You don't believe absolute privacy is an essential part of the confessional, do you?
No, I do not. I believe sincerity is the most essential part.
I told my attendant to come back in half an hour. Is that okay?
Yes, take your time. I'm in no rush.
Did Father Seamus say anything to you about me? FATHER BRENDAN No one said anything to me about you.
I can be a bit time consuming, but I'm worth the trouble.
I'm here for you Mark.
Look, this is not exactly a confession. I haven't yet done the deed. I was hoping to sort of get a quote in advance.
Tell me what's on your mind.
The most immediate thing on my mind would be my attendant, Joan. I'm thinking of getting rid of her. It's an evil thought, but I can't help it.
Is she dishonest, or incompetent?
No, neither of those. She looks at me the wrong way. It's that you- need-me-more-than-I-need-you look. I'd like to show her she's wrong, just for the evil satisfaction it will give me. Is that a sin, Father?
Well, it obviously troubles you.
Yes, it troubles me a lot. Because maybe it's really a power trip. Me against her. Me against the world.
I really wouldn't worry too much about that. The question is whether you like having her around.
I can't stand her.
Then get rid of her. If I were in a position to choose, I'd get someone nice. Even it was a power trip.
Then I have your blessing to fire her?
Unofficially, yes.
That's good enough for me.
Please, if ever you feel I can be useful, do let me know. It was a pleasure talking with you.
Same here.
We see a pencil eraser on the end of a stick slowly tapping the keys on an electric typewriter. At the other end of the stick, which is about a foot long, is Mark, manipulating it adeptly with his mouth. There is a white index card in the typewriter on which he is typing a job notice. We see the first word. "POET"
A community notice board. A young female hand reaches in and takes an index card off the board. The card reads:
Amanda would have been a pretty girl to touch, to hold, to kiss, to take to bed.
Mark is in his iron lung. Amanda sits in a stiff chair a few feet away, being interviewed. Rod is working in the kitchen. Mark's poem continues.
Her perfect, pale skin, Her Tudor court face Her strong, fleshy legs Drove me into ecstasies of despair.
Do you have any experience?
No, none at all.
That sounds perfect.
From Mark's POV, Amanda slides him out of the iron lung. It is her first time, and it is an awkward business.
How long can you stay out?
Three or four hours. Depends whether I'm having fun.
She'd count in French before lifting me, un, deux, trois, quatre! I'd scream Tugged by her athletic arms From the everlasting gravity.
Mark, on a blanket, is on an outing with Amanda, Matt and another COUPLE. They are playing Scrabble. 9A.
She took me on a picnic once, With her boyfriend and another couple. Lust crackled in the air between those twentyish people.
What did the boyfriend think? That I was in his way? I'm always in somebody's way, I thought, the sun in my eyes.
As she glided through crowds of lives She couldn't leave me lying there Dried out bubble gum stuck on the underneath of existence.
Amanda and her boyfriend MATT, are sharing the tub.
Do you touch him?
I do everything. Any other questions?
You don't have to be so defensive. I'm not about to get jealous.
Why not? He's a much nicer person than you are.
Amanda is shaving Mark.
What does your boyfriend think of me?
He's an asshole. It doesn't matter what he thinks of you.
I'm interested in the opinion of an asshole.
He thinks you're some kind of Svengali, and that you're going to hypnotise me into your cult.
He's right.
He says he can already see changes.
So with her gentle fearless heart She took me in. I thrived in her garden And wanted more.
Amanda is wheeling Mark in his gurney around the store, stopping from time to time to take something down from the shelf. She picks out a shirt.
This you must have.
I love you.
Did she reciprocate your feelings?
She didn't seem to. 11A.
Sometimes people can be very shy about their emotions.
Well, in case she didn't get it the first time, I told her again that I was in love with her, and wanted to marry her, thinking it might swing things.
Did it?
Yes. She left.
I wish I knew what to say. I mean, welcome to the human race. Every day someone breaks someone else's heart. And as I said, I'm here for you. I just wish I had something more useful to offer. All I have are these vague ideas about life and death that priests are equipped with. Have you ever thought of discussing your feelings with a therapist?
Not as yet. Father, I think I need a hug.
Rod is in the front yard picking up the newspaper. He sees VERA, Chinese, mid-20s, a sensible type, approaching Mark's front door.
Hi. Vera?
Yes.
I'm Rod. I do four to twelve.
Vera sits in the same spot where Amanda was interviewed, but without the same aura, although she is far from ugly.
Have you had any experience?
Some.
Would you get that, please.
Hullo.
It's Sandy, from Pacific News Service.
Could you press that button and put it on the speakerphone.
Hi, Sandy.
Hi, Mark, how you doing?
I'm good. I have a new attendant. She answered the phone. Her name's Vera.
Welcome, Vera.
Thank you.
Mark, we've gotten sponsorships to do a series on sex and the disabled and we'd like you to do some interviews in the Berkeley area. Could you do that? Say in the next week or so?
Why now?
No particular reason. If you're working on something else, then we can talk about it later.
No, now is fine.
Vera wheels Mark towards his first interview. The more we see Vera, the more we like her.
There was no denying it. A door had opened which I could not close, and in invisible writing it said: "Do not enter".
We see the slowly rotating reels of a portable cassette recorder. We hear a female voice.
Some positions, like that one, are pretty much impossible.
I don't know if you can quite visualize it. It's called a lateral, or sideways reverse cow- girl.
Don't worry about it then. It's just a question of depth of penetration. 
To some people it's really important, like my partner, for example. It's not such a big deal for me. I get just as excited when he licks my nipples, if and when he bothers to do it.
I think the tape's about to run out.
Do you want to keep going?
Uh, I think I've actually got enough to work on. Thanks.
Get back to me if you need anything else. Oh, and let me give you Greg's phone number. He's full of stuff you wouldn't think was possible.
Rod vacuums the floor while Mark taps away on his typewriter. Mark looks troubled.
Okay, shall we start?
Sure.
Oral sex is a matter of taste.
And one thing that really works in my favor is that I smoke so much weed that my taste buds are pretty jaded. This gives me a great deal of stamina in the tongue department, and stamina is key in cunnilingus. 24                                                               24 The alley cat creeps in through the open window. Mark watches it approach from his iron lung.
Who are these people? I feel like an anthropologist interviewing a tribe of headhunters.
A lady with a crisp voice answers the phone.
Good morning. UCSF.
Uh, may I please speak to someone in the Center on Sexuality and Disability, please.
I'm sorry sir, the Center on Sexuality and Disability has been shut down.
Mark looks immensely relieved. He closes his eyes.
Thank God.
Sir?
I'm sorry to have bothered you.
It's no bother...Sir, before you go, I can give you a phone number for one of the therapists who used to work there. Would you like that?
Sir, are you there?
28                                                               28 29                                                               29 It is a typical, modern, multi-purpose office building.   We hear the sounds of grunting, bumping and clanging.
There is something of a commotion going on at one of the elevators.  Vera, and a small, well-meaning CROWD, are trying to get Mark and his gurney inside. It will not fit horizontally.  As they angle it up, Mark begins to panic.
It won't fit. It's not going to fit. Let's go back.
Hey, it's fine. We got you. This is going to work just fine.
The top has to go over to the left. 17A.
I don't feel so good about this. Let's forget it.
Look, do you want to see this woman or not?
No!
Aah!
Well, it's too late.
Laura, a well-dressed, attractive woman in her late 30s, sits in a chair a few feet from Mark. His gurney takes up most of the available space in the room.
Did you ever discuss sex with your parents?
No. That would have been unthinkable.
Why?
That's the way they saw the world. It wasn't just that polite people didn't think about sex. No-one did. It was never discussed. As far as they were concerned, there was nothing down there.
Sorry about that.
What's that from?
Cerebral palsy.
You'd hardly notice.
People notice. It's not easy, the whole thing, attracting a guy, dating, sex, all very problematic.
I find that hard to believe in your case.
Well, you better believe it.
So, what sort of chance do you give me?
Of achieving your romantic fantasy? Very small to minute.
Look, there's no need to pull any punches. You can be as direct as you like with me.
Mark, I'm just a humble sex therapist. I try to help people with sex problems that can be addressed. Your problem, I understand, is that you have never had sex.
That's correct.
Would I be correct in assuming you're unable to masturbate?
Correct.
Has anyone done it for you?
No.
Have you ever asked anyone?
Not specifically. I asked someone to marry me. She declined. Does that come close to masturbation?
You know, being with the person you love is not the only way of expressing yourself sexually. There are people called sex surrogates.
Oh?
Psychotherapists and psychiatrists are not allowed to have sex with their clients, even if it seems like a good idea. Sex surrogates don't have that limitation.
Would this be covered by my medical benefits?
Unfortunately, no. You'd have to pay the full fee, whatever that was.
So, basically, I would be paying for sex.
Yes Mark, you would be paying for sex. But the person you would be paying is not a hooker. She is a highly trained and sensitive professional, who is not motivated by money. Just as I'm not. In fact, you can think of a surrogate as an extension of me. Do I seem like a hooker to you?
What sort of cost would I be looking at?
It depends how many sessions you need.
Say, one, just to try it and see if I like it.
I'm sorry, it doesn't work that way. It's a process. You have to be patient with yourself. There can be quite a lot of talking involved.
I've set aside $500. Do you think that would cover things?
Oh yes, that's ample. So, what do you think?
Rod wheels Mark into the church.
Mark waits in the little side chapel. Father Brendan enters.
Hi, good to see you. How are things?
Things are sort of confusing at the moment. I would appreciate your advice, as a friend, if you know what I mean.
Sure, and I understand what you mean.
Do you remember at one point you suggested I might see a therapist?
Yes.
Well, one way or another, it's a long story, I ended up seeing a therapist, a particular sort of therapist, a sex therapist.
Uh-huh.
My penis speaks to me, Father Brendan. Sometimes I ejaculate during a bed bath in front of my attendant. 
All I feel is shame and mortification, while other men, apparently, get pleasure. I'm sorry if I sound angry.
Don't worry about it. Go on.
This therapist suggested I could work with a sexual specialist, have sex with someone known as a sex surrogate, who would be sensitive to my special needs. I've been giving it some thought.
Hold on. What do you mean "have sex"? MARK Well, I don't really know how to describe...
Sorry, that wasn't what... I mean, are we talking about sexual intercourse? MARK I think so.
Outside marriage? MARK I did do my best on the question of marriage.
What is the difference between this sexual specialist and a common prostitute? MARK I don't know, but I think there's a difference. 23A.
How do you know she's not some hooker gussied up as a social worker, who's just going to rob you? MARK I trust what my therapist said about her. FATHER BRENDAN How old are you?
Thirty-eight.
Why exactly now?
I never had any spare cash before. That's a major factor, and I'm probably getting close to my use-by date.
And this is what you want my advice about? Fornication?
Your advice as a friend.
And do I have the casting vote, so to speak?
Let's say I value your advice just as much as I do the therapist's.
You're serious, aren't you?
I think sex is a serious matter. It's one of the most persistent themes in the bible. 
So, is it possible for me to know a woman, in the biblical sense, and do I want to find out?
And you want my opinion?
Please.
I know in my heart that He'll give you a free pass on this one. Go for it.
What? FATHER BRENDAN I said, go for it. MARK Really?
If you feel up to it. Do you feel up to it?
To tell the truth, I'm scared.
Then we should pray.
Sweet Jesus, Mark and I sit at your feet and pray that You bless this little journey, this one small step for a man.
I really feel proud of myself, imposing on someone I hardly know, to fornicate in their home.
Get over it. It's perfectly normal.
Carmen, in her electric wheelchair, is the woman Mark had earlier interviewed. She pushes a button on a remote control, which opens concertina double-doors, which reveal an adjacent bedroom.
Tada!
Wow!
There are all sorts of useful things in that drawer there, if you guys feel like exploring.
No, I'll bring my own sheets, towels and anything else we need.
No, no. Everything will be provided. I'm honored that you asked me. It'll be great karma for the house.
Rod is wheeling Mark back home.
Great karma for the house. My God, the pressure, already. I can't stand it.
We hear the sound of sneakers on a wood floor. TONY, an adolescent with a pony tail picks up the phone.
Hey, this is Tony.
Cheryl!
What is it?
Phone!
She's coming.
I'm not your girlfriend. When someone calls, particularly someone you don't know, you can use the word 'Mom'.
Hullo, this is Cheryl.
Hi, it's Laura.
I haven't heard from you in a while. How are you?
Pretty well. Look, I called to ask how you would feel about working with a severely disabled client.
Hold on a moment, please.
Hey, cut that out!
Mark is having a bed bath. His shoulders and neck are covered with soap suds. Rod is washing his back. The phone rings.
Would you get it please?
Sure.
Hullo, Mark O'Brien's phone.
Hi, this is Cheryl Cohen-Greene. May I speak to Mark?
Just one moment, please.
What am I doing here? Yes or no? Make up your mind.
Hullo, this is Mark.
Hi, Mark. I'm Cheryl. Laura called to introduce you. I understand you'd like to meet. Is that right?
Uh, yes.
I could see you on the seventeenth, at eleven o'clock. Would that be any good for you?
Uh, yes, I think that would be fine for me.
Hey, where you from?
Boston. You?
Salem. Small world.
Wouldn't want to paint it. 47                                                                47 Cheryl is on the phone, holding the receiver with one hand while she puts away groceries with the other. 29A.
We'll be talking for a while to begin with. Then, if you agree, we can also start doing some body awareness exercises in your first session.
The iron lung pumps away. Mark is alone. He stares at the picture of the Virgin Mary.
Holy Mother of God, what are "body awareness exercises"?
Vera lets herself in.
Vera holds up two shirts for Mark to see, a dark red and a light blue.
Which one?
Doesn't matter.
Will you stop acting as if you're going to your own execution.
I'm not acting.
Vera wheels Mark to his doom.
Try and think of something else. Baseball, for example. That's what they usually tell boys to do.
Who are "they"?
She's forgotten.
My God, she's forgotten, or she's gotten the date wrong. Okay, we might as well turn round and go back. Come on, let's go. 30A.
She hasn't forgotten.
Vera eases Mark onto the bed, positioning him so that he can see the doorway. As a finishing touch, she dabs a little cologne behind his ears, then puts the mouthpiece of his respirator within easy reach.
Okay, I'm going. I'll be back some time after one. If I'm not here, just let yourselves out.
Bye.
 Bye.
Have fun.
What's the time?
Twelve after eleven.
I think there's a strong possibility she's had second thoughts.
Mark, please calm down.
And if she does arrive, she would be perfectly within her rights to turn around and run.
Hi, I'm Cheryl. I'm sorry I'm late.
No, that's fine. Come in. I'm Vera, I'm one of Mark's helpers.
Hi, Mark O'Brien.
Hi, Cheryl Cohen Greene.
I'll be back, say, in two hours?
Yes, two hours, that would be perfect.
So...
Your money's on the dresser.
Thank you.
That was the wrong way to start off.
Yes, it was. Shall we start again?
Please, you start.
Although the aim is for us to have sex, I'm not a prostitute and you don't need to pay me up front. I've nothing against prostitutes, but there's a difference. We can talk about that later.
I'm sorry.
The other thing is, there is a limit to the number of sessions we can have together. Did Laura mention that when you saw her?
I'm sorry, I don't remember.
The limit is six. But that gives us plenty of opportunity to explore. Now, I understand you are able to have an erection.
Yes, but not out of choice.
Do you know how many men there are on this planet who would give anything for a natural erection?
Is this your place?
No, it's a friend's. The only bedroom furniture I have at my place is an iron lung. I've sometimes thought about buying a futon, in case the need arose.
It's worth thinking about.
I've got the space. It can be expensive though, a nice futon. I mean, how much do you think a good one would cost?
Mark, just take a deep breath, then let go.
Do I seem anxious?
You do a little. Cheryl lies down beside him.
Laura told me you were a poet. What's it like to be a poet?
It's a way of living inside your own head, which is where I spend most of my time.
But not today. By the way, I like your shirt.
Thank you.
So I need to ask you some basic questions. Okay?
Sure.
What is the iron lung for?
It keeps me breathing. I can spend a few hours outside of it, with my portable respirator, depending on how I feel. But I work and sleep in the iron lung. 34A.
How do you feel right now?
Out of my league.
I meant your breathing. MARK Oh...fine. In fact, better than usual.
That's great. Do you have any areas of unusual sensitivity? Any parts of your body you don't want me to touch?
I have normal sensitivity all over. It's just that my muscles don't work. You can touch me anywhere.
Shall we get undressed then?
Sure.
Ow! Ow! Stop! It hurts!
What's wrong?
Holy Mother of God!
Tell me what's wrong.
My fingers! They're caught!
Okay, okay, I've got it. Don't worry.
Be careful, please.
Mark, I'm going to be really careful with you. I don't want to hurt or injure you in any way, but it's really not sexy when you yell at me. Okay?
I won't yell at you any more.
But you'll tell me calmly the moment anything starts to hurt? MARK Yes. CHERYL Now, let's do the other arm.
Nice shirt.
You already said that.
Did I? I guess I'm a little anxious, too.
Okay, I'm going to slide these down. Hold your breath.
Shit, fuck! No, don't do that! 36A.
Cheryl sits down on the edge of the tub and takes a couple of deep breaths.
Mark, his body now under the sheets, looks towards the bathroom door. He can hear the sound of water running. He looks at a wall clock and notes the passing of time.
Cheryl turns off the tap. She has done a great job of pulling herself together, and is wrapped in a kimono, which she has brought herself.
Cheryl emerges from the bathroom and starts to undress.
Ready?
No.
Okay, the difference between me and a prostitute is that I don't want your return business. I'm here to help you communicate about your sexual feelings, so you can share them with a future partner.
Whenever I'm naked, everyone else in the room is usually dressed. Now that I'm in bed with another naked person, I'm very confused.
So, why is it confusing?
I'd always expected that God, or my parents, would intervene to keep this moment from happening.
Mark, close your eyes and focus on your sense of touch.
I'd like you to tell me how it feels each time I touch a different part of your body. If something feels good, tell me. If something feels ticklish or bothers you, let me know. I don't want you to tolerate anything. I'm going to start with the top of your head...
You have soft hair. It's nice to the touch. So you like it?
I do.
That feels weird.
Weird good? Or weird bad?
Just weird.
Good.
Still good?
Everything good so far, except the ear.
Are these the body awareness exercises?
You're clever to have worked that out.
People tell me I'm very perceptive.
Would you like to see what I feel like?
Are you wearing cologne?
Yes.
Mmm, my favorite brand. Okay, I'm going to move my hand along your stomach... and down to your pen...
Oh, oh.
Next week, Friday the twentieth, same time?
That's good for me.
Next time we'll start to work on intercourse.
Were you afraid at the thought of seeing me?
I was terrified.
You can be proud of yourself. You did great. We've made real progress.
Can I ask you something?
Of course. What would you like to ask?
Anything, really. Tell me something about yourself. Anything.
Sure. I'm a very private person. I have a private life, I do need you to be aware of that, but that's about it. This therapy is about you.
Welcome back.
Perfect timing.
I hope you guys kept the noise down.
Vera wheels Mark back the way they came. She is very discreet and they travel in silence for a while. Finally, curiosity overcomes her.
How do you feel?
Cleansed and victorious.
Doesn't get any better than that.
Tell me about your first sexual experience.
Let me think. It wasn't all that pleasant. I mean, it was consensual and everything, and I really was in love with the guy, but his dick seemed enormous to me, I didn't think it would fit. It was scary. But he was nice. I guess he couldn't help it.
Was he Chinese?
Are you kidding? I only hung out with white guys at high school.
Why is that?
I don't know. To stick it to my mum and dad, I suppose.
Are they happy now you've got a Chinese boyfriend?
They're happy. I'm happy.
What's his dick like?
Perfect size.
Why do you call it a dick instead of a penis?
Penis sounds like some vegetable you don't want to eat. Dick sounds like what it is.
The thing is, it was all over so damn quickly.
Yes, tell me about it.
Cheryl's car is parked outside. The house is mostly dark.
Cheryl is at a tiny desk, dictating into a recorder.
First session. Mark is the oldest of four children and raised Catholic. He was extremely nervous. He yelled a lot when I took off his shirt, but I think more out of fear than pain. He cannot masturbate. Has only had the occasional kissing experience. He is capable of achieving an erection easily, but the unusual curvature of his body could be a serious obstacle to intercourse.
Cheryl gets into bed beside her husband JOSH, who is apparently asleep.
This gentleman I just started working with. He spends most of his life trapped in a big metal box.
Did you hear what I said?
Yes, I heard what you said. You're a saint.
Don't forget to put the trash out in the morning.
Mark is in the little side chapel with Father Brendan.
I don't know what I had envisaged it would be like, the first time I mean. But that wasn't the image I had. I thought there would be more to it. Not that it was unpleasant. After all, I was in bed with a naked woman. She complimented me on my shirt and my hair. She held my penis. I haven't even seen my penis for over thirty years. Anyway, onward. Am I sharing too much?
No, I'm used to it.
Mark is in his iron lung. With his mouth stick, he turns the page of one of those anatomical instruction books on sex. There are the typical graphic cross-section diagrams of penises entering vaginas. Ravel's "Bolero" plays quietly in the background as he reads to himself.
"Sometimes the head of the penis may be too large to penetrate the vaginal opening smoothly, in which case the application of lubricant is recommended to avoid possible..." Oh, my God!
This time Rod is wheeling Mark. He seems only slightly less anxious than the first time, but still noticeably anxious.
What's on the menu today?
We're attempting intercourse.
Uh-huh. That's a big one.
What do you think of it? Intercourse.
Overrated, but necessary. There's plenty of other ways of achieving the same result, but somehow you don't feel you've actually done it till you've gone all the way in.
I want you to look at me this time. Go on, lift your eyes, look at me.
Do you like watching me undress?
I do.
From now on...
You're going to start to understand the signals from your body...
...and learn how to control... Then suddenly... 43A.
Oh God! Oh God!
Damn! Shit!
Mark is in the side chapel with Father Brendan.
I did it again. This time, I ejaculated on her thigh.
I felt cursed, that the whole enterprise was cursed. It seemed like a totally just punishment. God wasn't actually denying my sexuality. He was merely pointing out to me how useless it was.
It's amazing to me how often God is brought into the sex act. I understand that even amongst non- believers, the most common expression of sexual ecstasy is "Oh, God!"
Okay, I don't want to hear any more about God cursing you. I want the credit. It was my overpowering beauty that did it. It took you by surprise. Now, where were we?
What do you mean, where were we?
I'm going to touch you... I'm touching you... and when we both feel you're aroused, then I'm going to guide you into my vagina.
Is there anything I need to do?
Close your eyes, feel your body, that's all you need to do.
It won't fit. It's not going to fit.
No, Mark, it will fit just fine.
No, it's dangerous. It's too big.
It's not too big. Relax.
It won't fit. It'll hurt. It's too risky.
Please, stop this. I promise you, nothing bad will happen. Now, let's try again while you're still hard.
Shit!
Cheryl steps out of the shower.
Cheryl gets into bed.
I'm really sorry.
Stop being sorry. And stop reading those stupid sex manuals.
We still have some time. We can talk, which you seem to like, or you can suck on my nipples, which you also seem to like. Or, which one would you like to do first?
Cheryl's Volvo is parked in its usual spot out front. There is one light on in the house.
Cheryl is at her desk, dictating her notes. She also has a notepad with some jottings.
Mark seemed to be at his most relaxed when I sucked his penis. At the moment he is fixated on penis- vagina and his anxiety is focused around that. The root of his anxiety is his parents and his religion. He believes he doesn't deserve sex. He believes he is responsible for his little sister's death at the age of seven, because his mother was too busy looking after him.
A copy of Cheryl's notes comes through on Laura's fax machine. We hear her familiar limp as she comes over to collect them. She reads the notes with interest.
We discussed his fantasies. They are mostly masochistic. 
Again,   the idea of being punished. He has   never seen female genitalia before   and seems quite frightened by the   idea.
Mark and Father Brendan are in the little chapel.
I'm sorry to lay all this on you, Father. My worry now is that it's never going to happen. I'm never going to have intercourse with Cheryl, or any other woman. Maybe intercourse would prove I was an adult. Maybe I don't want to cross that line. Maybe this was a bad idea.
Do you want to know what I think?
Please.
I'd forget the psychobabble. I grew up on a farm. It even takes the animals a few times to get it right. Can I suggest you try and enjoy it more? Don't worry about the technical stuff. You're a poet. Be romantic.
Vera wheels Mark and his gurney to a rack in front of the store. She takes shirts and models them for Mark. He settles on a daring but beautiful silk shirt. A man in a pink unitard rides by on a unicycle.
You nervous?
Only a little.
Would you like a shpritz?
Yes, of course I would.
I have a good feeling about today, a very good feeling.
Great.
I had a terrible feeling it was never going to happen, but I think today's the day.
Can I make a suggestion?
Please.
Stop thinking about it.
You couldn't have wished for nicer weather.
You're not listening, are you? I said, stop thinking about it.
Beautiful weather.
The doorbell rings, amidst a loud background chatter. We reveal a ROOMFUL OF WOMEN, gathered for some intense group activity of some kind. Carmen buzzes her way to the front door in her wheelchair. She opens it. She has an expression of horror.
Oh, my God, I forgot! Oh, Mark, I'm so sorry.
Cheryl, Mark and Vera are by the car. Mark looks grim.
She was very apologetic.
Look, it may not be exactly what we had in mind, but I noticed there's quite a nice motel just a couple of blocks from here. Maybe it's worth checking out.
Mark and Cheryl wait outside while Vera goes in.
Have you got anything on the ground floor?
I've got a single.
How much?
Thirty-five plus tax.
My boss is the gentleman in the gurney. 
He's supposed to be having a therapy session right now, but the facility we normally use had a scheduling mix-up. We only need the room for two hours. Can you do it for twenty cash?
The clerk leads them to the room and opens the door.
There's a soda machine around the corner.
Thanks.
And an ice machine, if you need it.
I'm sure it'll come in handy.
Cheryl, Vera and the gurney enter the room. The clerk watches in the background. Cheryl and Vera lower Mark onto the bed. Allowing for the gurney, there is not a lot of space left in the room.
Okay, I'll see you. I've got a book to read. I'll just hang around the reception if you need me.
Very atmospheric.
Some people find motels exciting.
Do you think I could be one of those people?
Another nice shirt.
As in racy and sophisticated?
You took the words right out of my mouth.
Vera is having coffee with the clerk.
What's wrong with your boss?
Basically, he can only move his head.
So what sort of therapy are they doing?
They're having sex.
You're bullshitting me.
Okay, I'm bullshitting you.
No, tell me for real, what are they actually doing?
Well, today, after some appropriate foreplay, they're going to try to achieve full penetration.
We see Cheryl from the breasts up. We hear violent coughing from down below.
I'm   choking
The mouth-piece.
I guess that one's off the menu until further notice.
Come on, lighten up, will you.
Pony girl, Pony girl, Won't you be my pony girl?
That was what my father used to sing to my little sister, Karin. That was before she died. She was kind of a sad little girl. It didn't do much good. I'm really sorry that the last time I saw her, I fought with her. I made her cry.
My parents could have left me in the nursing home, you know. They found out the average life expectancy for polios in nursing homes was 18 months. So they took me home. They gave me a life.
Mark, I'm just going to go the bathroom for a quick pee. When I come back, we're going to achieve full penetration. But before I go, I want you to close your eyes.
Is this a game?
No, it's not a game. Just do as I say. Close your eyes.
Picture yourself as a six year old boy at the beach. Can you do that?
Yes, very easily.
The scene has a hazy, dreamlike reality. We see the six-year old Mark, able-bodied and full of energy, running and playing in the sand with his dog.
CHERYL Describe some of your feelings.
I feel very exhilarated, running next to the Atlantic Ocean, feeling the wind and the wet sand between my toes.
Do you really feel like him?
Yes, I really feel like him.
But can you really picture him?
I don't understand what you mean. I said I can feel like him. Of course I can picture him.
From the outside, I mean, as an adult, as you are now, looking at him with his crew cut and his little face?
Yes.
And are you mad at him? Do you blame him for getting polio? Was it his fault? 53A.
Mark has a faraway look.
She either forgot to close the bathroom door, or didn't bother to close it.
I found the sound of her peeing incredibly erotic, and the sound of her tearing off toilet paper incredibly intimate. By the time she came back I had a terrific boner.
Cheryl gets herself into position on top of Mark.
I'm going to rub the tip of your cock around my vulva. When it's ready, I'll guide you in. Breathe slowly and think of something delicious.
Aahh!
Vera is still there, reading her book. The clerk looks at his watch.
They've been in there a long time.
Yes, some people can do that.
Do you want another coffee?
No thanks.
Do you live with your parents?
No.
You at Berkeley?
Uh-huh.
Doing what?
Architecture.
You have a boyfriend?
Yes. Do you?
Mark and Cheryl are lying together. He has his eyes closed. There is something on her mind.
You awake?
Uh-huh.
To answer your earlier question, I grew up in Salem, brought up Catholic, like you, but the church didn't appreciate my attitude towards sex.
You had an attitude towards sex?
Yes, I liked it. They like to think they threw me out, but I threw them out. So for years I didn't believe in anything, and now I'm converting to Judaism.
I guess it's good to have some kind of insurance.
I didn't think of that. MARK Then why are you doing it? CHERYL My husband asked me to do it before his grandmother dies. The idea is, if it makes her happy and him happy, then it will do the same for me. Our son is neutral on the subject, but theoretically, if it looks like it makes me happy, it'll make him happy too. That's the way my husband's family talks, and thinks. The fact that I'm happy already, doesn't seem to be relevant.
What's your son's name?
Tony. He's 14 years-old and very smart. You'd like him.
Does he know what you do? 56A.
He knows I'm a sex therapist. There's a certificate on the wall. But he hasn't had sex yet. So... How much can he really know? He's not a boy, he's not a man.
How much do you want him to know?
Well, I want him to have some idea in his head. I hope it's a nice one.
What does your husband do?
He's a philosopher.
Wow! You mean, like, at a university?
No, in his own mind. He runs the house, plays guitar, thinks a lot.
It's kind of late.
Hey, we did really good stuff today. You were fantastic. You're a fully fledged male homo sapiens endowed with a handsome and substantial penis which now has a proven track record. You should be pleased.
Was I really inside you?
You were really and truly inside me.
For how long?
Five or six seconds.
Is that all?
That's a long time for some people. You were pretty excited. I don't know what you were thinking about.
I'm sorry, I couldn't tell one thing from another. It was all a jumble of sensations.
Well, you definitely achieved penetration. It was penis-vagina all the way. And you definitely get an A for orgasm.
Did you come?
No, Mark, I didn't.
Can we try for that next time?
If that's what you want.
Yes, that's what I want.
Okay then.
Laura is on the phone to Cheryl.
How's it going?
Cheryl is at her desk.
He reads too many books. He has it in his head that after meeting three times, we should be able to have penetrative sex which results in simultaneous orgasm. Boom! Just like that.
LAURA That's very funny.
CHERYL I guess. Yes, it is.
What do you think of him?
LAURA I said, what do you think of him?
I like him.
Father Brendan approaches and arrives at the front door. He rings. Rod lets him in.
Mark is in his iron lung. Father Brendan, wearing civilian clothes, comes in with a 6 pack of beer.
I was in the neighborhood. How are you?
Still exhausted. FATHER BRENDAN So, on reflection, are you... Fulfilled?
It was okay. I liked some of the other things just as much, or better, but I'm glad it's behind me.
Well, so am I. Congratulations.
When this is all over, I'm going to write an article about it. After all, sex sells. Seriously.
So you're really doing this for the money.
Absolutely.
Well, that makes me feel much better about the whole thing. Can I ask what she's like? Cheryl. You've never really said anything about her.
She's the most wonderful person on the planet. I'm glad we finally had intercourse, because now I realize that everything I do with her feels just great.
As usual, Cheryl's car is out front.
What's on your mind?
Oh, nothing.
Don't believe you.
Okay, I've been thinking about the whole conversion thing.
Still don't believe you.
Then, whatever it is, I guess I'm not in the mood for talking.
What sort of mood are you in?
Another sort of mood.
Mark is also awake, staring at nothing, his mind full of thoughts. As a distraction, he eventually turns and looks at the picture of the Virgin Mary.
So, what do you think?
The phone rings. We hear footsteps approaching. Cheryl answers it.
Hullo, this is Cheryl.
Mark?
Mark is in his iron lung.
Can we meet somewhere for a coffee? Somewhere nice. My treat.
CHERYL I don't normally meet with clients outside of working hours, you know that. 61A.
MARK How could you possibly describe anything to do with me as normal?
MARK We don't have to talk about business.
A WAITER approaches Cheryl and Mark with two beautifully made cups of coffee. One of them has a straw accompanying it. He sets them down. Mark looks up at the waiter.
Could you put my cup right on the edge of the table there, and stick the straw in my mouth, please?
Sure.
Is that okay?
Perfect.
Sir, I'd wait a couple of minutes. That coffee is pretty hot.
Thanks.
You're welcome.
So, what shall we talk about?
We don't have to do much talking.
Then why are we here?
I just want to be seen with you in public. I find that as sexy as anything we've done so far.
I'm glad you enjoy looking, after all.
I want people to say "Who's the guy with the blonde? How did he get so lucky?" CHERYL Or so rich.
Okay, if some old girlfriend from school you hadn't seen for years turned up suddenly, like right now, how would you introduce me? As your boyfriend? CHERYL No, as my husband. Why not go all the way.
Really? CHERYL Does that shock you?
Yes. CHERYL Then I guess it would shock her as well.
Who? CHERYL My old school friend that's going to come along any moment.
You really can picture me as husband material? CHERYL As long as we're pretending, sure. MARK Would you write down your address for me, please? 62B.
Josh walks unhurriedly to the letter box at the front gate and collects the mail. As he flips through the envelopes, he stops at one which is addressed to Cheryl, sniffs it, then opens it. It contains a sheet of paper on which is typed what seems to be a poem. He reads it with interest, which develops into mild shock.
Cheryl and Josh are in the kitchen, arguing.
You said yourself, it's not supposed to get personal.
That's another thing altogether. What I want to know is where do you get off opening my mail?
It was scented. I assumed it was just junk mail.
Even less reason to open it. Where is it? Give it to me.
You're not getting it.
This is absolutely none of your fucking business.
You're still not getting it. I threw it out.
You didn't.
I fucking did.
What's up?
Would you please ask your mother to pass the salt?
Cheryl, would you please pass the salt?
Cheryl is at the dining table, with her recorder and file in front of her, plus a late-night snack.
Mark appears to be indulging in typical transference behaviour. This is not unusual after first successful intercourse, but I think he is especially susceptible. He cannot help seeing me as the multi- functional, all-purpose woman, mother, sister, schoolmistress, whore, lover and best friend. At the same time, his anxiety about sexual performance has diminished.
Josh crawls into bed with Cheryl. She is still awake. He snuggles up to her.
I'm sorry. I really upset you before.
No, you didn't. I'm fine.
You sure?
Yes, I promise.
Really? 64A.
Yes, I've come around to your point of view. You were right. You're generally right about these things.
It was quite a nice poem. I mean, nothing astounding, but heartfelt, at least.
Josh, I need to go to sleep. Everything's good.
Okay. Good night.
Cheryl rummages around in the kitchen garbage. She finds nothing. She storms off to the laundry, flings open a cupboard, pokes around and comes up with a flashlight.
Cheryl makes her way to the end of the yard. Holding the flashlight between her teeth, she rummages around in the outdoor trash bin. Finally, she finds what she is looking for. An envelope. She takes the poem out of the envelope and reads it.
Let me touch you with my words. For my hands lie limp as empty gloves.
Do you think she'll like the shirt?
I like it. Does that count?
Amanda?
They are stopped at a park bench. Vera is hovering in the background, out of earshot.
It's been a while.
I know. I'm sorry. I'm going to Germany. I wanted to say goodbye to you before I left.
Why are you going to Germany?
To study German.
For how long?
One or two years maybe. But we should keep in touch.
But why go to Germany? It's the only place in the world where humor is actually forbidden.
You could always make me laugh. I love you, Mark. I really do.
Really?
MARK Yes, I love you, but not in that way. I love you, but I'm not in love with you. Blah, blah, blah. You know how it goes.
AMANDA I think it's great what you're doing with this surrogate lady.
It could have been you.
It could have been, but it wasn't.
MARK I had this faint hope that she would show the merest hint of jealousy. It shows you how nave I am. 
The fact that I was no longer a virgin, that I was a `made man', so to speak, made no difference to her at all.
Cheryl's car is in the parking lot. We see her draw the blinds.
Clerk takes two beers from a mini-bar and hands one to Vera.
Thanks.
You want to go out some time?
No, I don't think so.
What, your boyfriend?
No.
Your parents?
No, I'm busy, that's all. What's wrong with this, anyway? We're having a nice time, aren't we?
It's okay.
Or do you have things to do? I can go for a walk if you're busy and come back later.
No, no, stay. Is this going to be a regular thing?
What?
The therapy.
I don't know. I'm not the therapist.
What sort of a therapist is she, really?
I told you the first time, she's a sex therapist.
Today they're working on simultaneous orgasm.
What's that?
Mark and Cheryl are in bed, their faces close.
Boy, am I glad to see you.
Don't you say that to all the girls?
Yes, but I always mean it.
Remember about the breathing. Concentrate on breathing out rather than in. Think of anything neutral. Sky, water, trees, ships, music, nothing too dramatic.
MARK The first time, I really didn't know what was going on. Technically it all happened, but nothing really happened in my head.  70-71.
This time it did, and my head has never experienced anything like it before. Of course, I ignored Cheryl's advice about having neutral thoughts.
Amanda is giving Mark a pole dancing demonstration, complete with disco beat and mirror-ball lighting.
Mark opens his eyes and looks up at Cheryl. She seems divine. His excitement increases. We hear the change in his breathing. Also in her breathing.
The expression of elation on Mark's face morphs dramatically into something else.
Then afterwards, there was this moment, this glimpse of an awful sadness to come.
The Volvo is parked out front. The envelope is still on the dash.
Cheryl is dictating.
Mark achieved an erection as soon as I started to suck on him. He did the controlled breathing, as I had suggested, and I was able to get on top and guide him in quite easily.
We see Mark's face from Cheryl's POV. His eyes are still closed.
Is it in? Is it really in?
Yes, it's really in.
I couldn't believe it.
Mark is in his iron lung, typing. At the top of the page, we can see the title of the piece:
I was finally there. Too soon, I came. But she kept holding me inside her. Then a look of pleasure brushed lightly over her face...
We see Cheryl's face from Mark's POV. It is as beatific as we have ever seen it.
... as though an all-day itch were finally being scratched. Letting me go, she put her hands down on the bed by my shoulders and kissed my chest. This act of affection moved me deeply.
Mark is with Father Brendan.
I almost wept. No-one had ever kissed me there before. It was so unexpected and so natural.
Cheryl's lips move away from Mark's chest. She kisses him on the lips, light and lingering. As soon as there is enough space between them, he whispers to her.
I love you.
I love you, too.
Did you come?
Yes.
Cheryl continues dictating.
Mark is breathing well and learning to pace himself. There is no real physical impediment to a variety of sexual activities, given the right sort of partner. His deeper emotional needs are outside the scope of my potential involvement.
As anticipated, this was the final session.
They are still in the same intimate position.
What happens when...
What happens when what?
When people become attached to each other.
What people?
Just people. What's the chemistry of it all? When people are attracted to each other.
Are you attracted to me?
We're just talking hypothetically.
Hypothetically, they write poems, they have sex.
And what happens next?
After poetry and sex? Nothing or everything. The rest is by negotiation, as it were.
What do you mean?
I mean, you can just leave it at love and attraction, or you can make things complicated. As most people do.
Have you?
Oh, yes.
The clerk looks bored. Vera looks at the time. She seems a little anxious.
Can I use that phone to call the room?
Sure.
What shall we do next time? Any requests?
Mark?
I'm thinking.
We have two sessions left, is that correct?
That's right. Or...
Or, what?
Or, we could stop now.
You mean, make this the last session?
Yes.
What do you think we should do?
It's not we, it's you, Mark. It's up to you.
I want to know how you feel.
That doesn't come in to it.
Yes, it does. I don't just write poems to anyone.
Mark, what do you want me to say? How much I was touched by that? How special this has been to me? Is that going to help you? No, it's going to make things worse.
You mean to say, come the sixth session that will be it?
Yes, that will be it. I explained that the first time we met.
I'm sorry. If it's any consolation, it's also hard for me to think about it.
Then maybe we should pull the plug now.
I think maybe we should. It's only going to get harder. I guess you might as well save the money. Maybe buy yourself a nice futon.
Just a moment.
I desperately wanted to feel that because of Cheryl, my life had changed. But it hadn't.
Bye, Mark
Bye.
Everything all right?
He did great. See you. I'm sorry, I have to run.
See you.
Cheryl goes to her car and opens the trunk. As she is putting the mirror inside, the Chinese clerk, who is showing a COUPLE to their room, gives her an odd look. Cheryl takes no notice, gets in her car and starts the engine.
You forgot this.
I knew there was a reason I came here today.
Vera wheels Mark home. They travel in silence.
Father Brendan and Mark are together in the chapel.
I felt I'd just been through a ceremony that I didn't know the meaning of. I kept thinking, is that all there is? Just an empty hole at the end of it? A bigger hole than there was before?
I'm sorry Mark, you can't always trust your feelings. You've achieved a great thing. It may take you a while to realize that.
153                                                            153 It is a moonlit night. On the opposite wall from the Virgin Mary is a picture of Amanda and Mark. Mark lies in his iron lung staring at it.
I wrote letters to Amanda in Germany. Five, six pages long A year passed, Heard nothing. Was it my fault? Of course it was. But the guilt isn't enough to patch over the rage. I pound the insides of my mind with words, such puny fists, And nobody hears.
There is an answering machine on a bedside table.
Hi, this is Rod. Leave a message, or not.
Rod, it's Mark. I need help. The power's gone out, including the pump on the iron lung. I'd say I've got about three hours before I start to turn blue. I hope you get this in time.
Mark winces in frustration.
Okay... nine-one-one.
Shit!
So this is how it ends.
Cheryl enters the room wrapped in a white, terry cloth robe. The room is dominated by a small, beautifully tiled immersion pool with a hand rail and steps. The MIKVAH LADY gets up from her chair and approaches her.
Is this your first time?
Yes, it is. I'm converting.
So, what do you do?
I don't think you'd understand.
You can try me.
Okay. I'm a housewife.
Why shouldn't I understand?
I guess I was mistaken.
I see you're very comfortable with being naked.
That has never been one of my problems.
Sometimes new brides come with their mothers. Do I have to take this off? Can I please leave this on? They've never been naked before. No honey, it all has to come off.
And it does?
And it does. They stand on the edge of that pool without anything to cling to but themselves. Nothing to hide behind. This is your body. This is the body that God crafted for you.
Immerse completely. Go completely under the water, without touching the walls or anything.
Okay Mark, you can open your eyes now.
Mark is on the bed alone. He opens his eyes.
This is your body.
So this is the body that someone was able to love. Not quite as bad as I thought.
Overhead fluorescent lights flash by, as we observe the ceiling from Mark's point of view. We also hear the sound of rapidly rolling rubber wheels, and a voice.
Mark, can you hear me? Open your eyes.
Mark is in a regular hospital bed, with a temporary plastic cocoon over him in place of his iron lung. There is a volunteer called SUSAN in the room with him.
They'll be letting you go today. Whoever looks after you will leave the portable respirator switched on at night, fully charged, so you'll have at least one back-up system.
How close was I?
To what?
You know, to that tunnel thing and the light, and the voice saying don't go near the light.
Is that what you remember?
No. I assume I passed out. Before that, I remember feeling sorry for myself.
Do you feel relieved now?
No. I mean, I'm relieved that Rod got to me in time, but I still feel sorry for myself.
I'm sure there's a cure for that. Would you like to talk to someone?
I feel comfortable talking to you.
I'm only a volunteer, not a therapist. I can refer you to someone if you like.
I'm sorry, I don't mean to be rude. I'm just smiling at the idea that a therapist could do anything useful for me right now. My priest couldn't.
Are you religious?
Yes. I would find it absolutely intolerable not to be able to blame someone for all this. Are you?
No, I don't go to any church and I don't think about God very much. But I believe there's a mysterious logic, or poetry to life. I guess that makes me a spiritual type.
Yes, that would count.
Would you like me to visit you?
Are you married?
No.
Do you have a steady boyfriend?
No.
Then please visit as often as you can.
She smiles. Mark is loaded into an ambulance.
Bye. Take care.
There's just one more thing I want to tell you.
I'm not a virgin.
So, are you in a relationship at the moment?
No, it was a passing thing.
Thanks for sharing that with me.
Mark is accompanied by an AMBULANCE OFFICER. We see clear blue sky through the back windows. The sun shines in and warms Mark's face. He closes his eyes in contentment.
Nice day, isn't it?
The best.
Good to be alive, huh?
We see the disappearing figure of Susan from the point of view of the departing ambulance.
I met Susan five years before I died. She was the love of my life. We had the same priorities, baseball pretty much came first, and we wrote each other mushy poems. I never expected it, nor did she, but that's often the way things turn out.
Rod shows Father Brendan into Mark's room.
That was quite something. What do you propose to do for an encore?
Yep, I almost found out the big secret. But here I am, back with the living. If there is another place, then I think they took one look at me and decided to throw me back.
And welcome back.
And thank you for coming to visit.
I know it's been awhile since we talked about this... About Cheryl. At the time, you seemed to feel so badly about her... or about it?
I no longer feel like that.
Oh? That's good to hear. In the end, you're glad that you did it?
Yes, I am. In fact, at this point in time, I feel very blessed.
Blessed?
Yes, blessed. They put me on this new anti-depressant and now I can really see life from the cup half full rather than cup half empty point of view.
It takes about six weeks to kick in, but when it does, you can really tell the difference.
Hey, that's great.
I'm pulling your leg, Father. I'm not on drugs. I have a girlfriend.
You're kidding me. A real girlfriend?
A very real girlfriend. She adores me. She'll do anything for me. And I can get pretty kinky sometimes, believe you me. Her name is Susan.
I'm flabbergasted. Is she pretty?
She sure is. FATHER BRENDAN Has she got a sister?
As a matter of fact... FATHER BRENDAN I'm kidding. MARK No, you're not. Anyway, we're starting a publishing company together.
Here I was, all prepared to offer comfort to the forlorn - that's supposed to be my specialty - and now I can just throw away that little speech.
No, no. Please make the little speech. I'd love to hear it. 89A.
Okay, but I'll try and keep it short.
Don't make it too short.
Okay, fine. Here goes. The meaning of love. Love is a journey.
I already like it.
That's it. That's all of I've got. I told you it's short. Love is a journey.
Mark also has a smile on his face as he lies awake.
Actually, I was on drugs, I was taking anti-depressants and they were helping a bit. At least I was able to see the cup-of-life metaphor as a useful tool. Of course, the two halves were never even. Not in my case, that's for sure. Look at all the years of unendurable crap I've had to put up with. That fills most of the cup. But in the little bit that's left, what do I have to show for myself? Journalism? Poetry? At the very least, three beautiful women who all loved me and will all show up at my funeral.
Josh saunters out to the mail box. He retrieves the mail, sifts through it and pauses over a letter. He is tempted to open it, but thinks better of it.
Cheryl is planting stuff in the back yard. Josh approaches her with the letter.
It's from a Susan Fernbach. 90A.
A full-blown Catholic funeral is happening. Meaningful hugs are exchanged. Eyes are dabbed. We hear Mark's voice.
Three Reasons to Live
O God, it was boring, but I did it got it out of the way
We had this agreement -- God gave me life for a while I gave Him gratitude for a while and it worked out OK
You know how every day is different? I just wanted to see what would happen next
Father Brendan delivers a eulogy. We see members of Mark's FAMILY, all teary-eyed.
Mark, I know you're watching. I'm sorry, my friend, but we have to do this. Just bear with me, and I think you might like it.
 I've been branching out lately, reading Native American stories about the character of the trickster. Sometimes he shows up as a coyote, sometimes as a raven, but he always does the unexpected. The trickster breaks the rules. Mark O'Brien, whose life we're celebrating today, was very much the trickster -- anyone who knew him knew that.  90B.
Besides his irreverent humor and alarming honesty, he always did the unexpected.
Susan Fernbach will now read one of Mark's favorite poems.
This is called Love Poem for No One in Particular.
Let me touch you with my words. For my hands lie limp as empty gloves. Let my words stroke your hair, Slide down your back and tickle your belly. For my hands, light and free-flying as bricks, Ignore my wishes and stubbornly refuse to carry out my quietest desires.
Let my words enter your mind, bearing torches. Admit them willingly into your being So they may caress you gently within.
In the middle of the room, moonlit, is Mark's iron lung, empty and majestic, with the cat sitting on top. As we move around the eerie capsule, we hear the sound of the French Can- Can slowly fade up. It continues over END CREDITS.
