 Americans?  Where?
 No, no.  Not here.
 Where?  How far?  How many kilometers?
 I don't know.  That way, I think.  Five kilometers maybe.
 You're lying, you wop whore, I don't believe you.
 Excuse me, sir.
 What is it, Corporal?  You're supposed to be watching the perimeter...
 A message, sir, by courier...from the Fuhrer himself.
 What?  What are you talking about?
 The Fuhrer says there's been a mistake, we're not the master race! He says we're a bunch of perverted fools.
Inside!  Presto!  Hurry, inside!
That's it!  Come on, let's go.
Given zee up, asshole!
Hold your fire, it's me.  Don't shoot.
Shit, Sarge, you sure had me fooled.
They didn't suspect ya, huh, Sarge? Ya walked right up to them?
Easy, no problem.
No kidding.  You didn't talk to 'em did you?  I mean, did you say anything in kraut?
Not much.
 You talked to 'em?  You actually talked kraut with them and they thought you were a nazzey?  God damn! Whadja talk about?
Politics.
Hey, Sarge, there's an officer with these deceased guys in a different uniform.  Like the ones at Kassarene...
 A lotta Americans speak German and Italian.  Our parents come from over here, we got roots in the old country. My folks are from outside a Firenze, they're always talkin' about old Firenze...
Ask them if they've seen any more krauts with outfits like this...
...so we're gonna sneak up on 'em cause we don't know how many there are or anything, and the Wildman's s'posed to slit the sentry's throat only he gets the dull edge of the knife against the kraut's neck...
The dull edge!
 ...so he strangles the guy instead...
...and Rock sees there's no blood on the uniform...
...and the kraut's about his size...
...so Rock puts on the kraut uniform...
...and walks right in there with the krauts...
...and talks to them in German!
About politics for Christsake!
He's gonna get us killed.  The man takes risks...
Careful risks!
An' he takes 'em, Retread.  He's not like summa them officers, he don't ask you to do somethin' he wouldn't do...
That might be true...but there isn't anything that asshole wouldn't do! So where's that leave ya?
You don't want to discourage the men from bringing in information, sir...
Of course not!  But I don't want them playing genius and drawing conclusions they're not qualified to draw either...
He's an experienced man, not a new recruit, he's served in North Africa, he was decorated three times at Kassarene...
For bravery, not for intelligence. I admire brave men, Captain, but I've observed that some of the bravest are some of the stupidest.  In fact the qualities at times seem to be complimentary.  And stupidity loses, Captain , where smart wins ...
 I guess courage is irrelevant, sir.
 We lost at Kassarene.  Through no fault of the Sergeant's, I'm sure.  Send him in.
Sergeant Rock...
At ease, Sergeant...  That was a helluvan action last night, impressive in every way.  You inflicted casualties on the enemy without suffering any losses.  Top notch soldiering!  You submit a list of the men on that patrol to the Captain and I'll see that every one of them is decorated, yourself included.
I'm sure I speak for the men in thanking you, sir.  They'll be grateful.
Captain Walters says you attach considerable significance to this patch, Sergeant.
I've seen them before, sir.  In North Africa.  Waffen SS, Panzer Division.
You're not going to see tanks up here, Rock, not in this kind of country. We tried some Shermans, five of them, and we lost three in one week.  Not to the enemy, to the terrain.
Well, sir, with or without tanks, they're crack troops, they're not a defensive outfit...
 Sergeant, you're not qualified to speculate.  I'm going to forward this patch along with your report, not your conclusions, to Intelligence where it'll be properly analyzed by qualified people.  In the meantime, I don't want you gossiping around the battalion...
"Gossiping," sir?
Starting rumors about an attack by Nazi super-soldiers in tanks.  That kind of nonsense can be very demoralizing to the men, especially the Negroes.  There's a colored outfit in the battalion and those people can get spooked by rumors and panic!  Am I clear?
Yes, sir.
 Give those names to the Captain.  You did very good work.  Dismissed.
See what I mean?  Guts up the giggy, but no brains at all, he probably can't fart and wipe his ass on the same day, too complicated...
He's not bookish, Major, but that doesn't mean...
 They're not Indians, Captain!  They're not going to sneak up on us on tippy toes, they're Germans!  Nazis, the Wehrmacht, a war machine!  If they're gonna attack this pass, they'll pound the living shit out of us with artillery, they'll hammer us with 88s and screaming mimis, they'll bomb us till we're grateful to be attacked, for Chrissake!  Now do you hear any German planes?  Do you hear any German fucking artillery?
Inside!  Get in the cellar!  Take cover.
He's gone, soldier.  Better take cover.
Come on, you assholes!  The cellar!
You!  Give me a hand.
Fucking Indians!
He's dead, Major.  We better get in the cellar.
 Oh, Jesus!
 This is Dog Easy Baker Six calling Blue King Six...  I'm trying Regimental HQ, sir...
No way!  No way Rock's dead, you're fulla shit.  He's indestructible.
Nobody's indestructible, Pasky.
I'm just saying what I saw, that's all.
An' you're sure it was him?
Yeah, I'm sure, and he looked like he had a bad head wound...
That doesn't mean anything, you wash off the blood it could be superficial, it could be...
 Hey, I didn't take his pulse.  I didn't take Cameron's pulse that time either.  Remember Cameron?  Huh?  Is Cameron dead or alive?
I saw him too.
Rock?  You saw Rock?
Was he dead or not?
 He looked the way Cameron looked that time.
COME ON, YOU BASTARD!  SUCK IN! SUCK IN, YOU SONOFABITCH, DON'T QUIT, DO IT, DO IT, DO IT, DO IT, DO IT!
Uh...uh...uh...
COME ON, SERGEANT, DON'T GIVE IT ALL AWAY, HANG ON, YOU BASTARD, THINK ABOUT THE GIRLS, THINK ABOUT THE STEAKS, THE KIDS, SUNNY DAYS, BREATHE, YOU STUPID SONOFABITCH, BREATHE, BREATHE, BREATHE, YOU FUCKING CHICKENSHIT QUITTER, WHAT WOULD YOUR MOTHER SAY?  HOW ABOUT YOUR FATHER?
Nazi Bastard!  Kraut!  Hey, jerry, heil Hitler!  Sig Heil!
Hitler you cannot kill with snow.  I am not Hitler, I am only myself, a German.
Twelve dollars, that's the best I can do.
That much?
There's a war on, Mister Van Rocklin, in case you didn't notice.  Guys are dying.  This stuff is rationed, it's black market...
Okay, yes, I pay, I understand.
I wouldn't even do this if you weren't referred by a regular customer...
WHERE AM I?  WHERE THE FUCK AM I?  I CAN'T SEE!  I CAN'T FUCKING SEE!
Hey, stop!  Goddamnit, that's our gear.
That's Regimental HQ right across the street, Lieutenant.
Where am I?  Where the fuck am I? Please, goddamnit, tell me?  Where am I?
Can anybody hear me?  Please.
I can't see for Chrissake, I can't see at all.  Where am I?
A hospital.  It's all right.  It's...a hospital.
Make it an order then!  Henceforth no line officer is to report that he's "pinned down" by machinegun fire, mortar fire, rocket fire, or any other fucking fire!  Is that clear?
But, sir, if they are pinned down, don't we need accurate -- ?
 It says "pinned down" in every goddamn report from every goddamn company commander, from every fucking platoon leader...thank God the men don't transmit individual fucking reports because I'm sure they're all pinned down!  Now I'm going to assume everybody's pinned down from now on, okay?  So don't tell me when you're pinned down, tell me when you're not pinned down.  That's what I want to hear...when you're not pinned down.
Yes, sir.  No more "pinned down," only "not pinned down."
Easy Company's up on the line.  You can get a ride up there in the morning.  In the meantime bed down anywhere you can.
Thank your sir.
I guess it's pretty...pretty rough up on the line.
Oh, no, Lieutenant, no, no, not at all.  It's rough in here...up on the line, it's just one big...one big... party.  Laughing and joking with the goodhearted people of Germany who happen to be visiting Italy like ourselves.
Type up an order, Private.  "The words 'pinned down' will not be used in future transmission to HQ.  It is only acceptable to report 'not pinned down.'"  Colonel Cronkite will sign it.
We were gettin' all this shit from a kraut fifty, so this kid, he works his way to maybe 25 yards from 'em, fucking courageous.  He's gonna send 'em some pineapple, right?  So he pulls the pin.  Booooom!  Short fuse! Right in the fucking face.
I seen ugly and I seen uglier, but a short fuse is the ugliest.
Well, it didn't kill him, it blew his fucking face off is all.  He was screaming, "I can't see, I can't see." Massachusetts guy.  Gimme a light.
We're going to do everything we can for you, Private...everything!  But your sight is gone.  We can't bring that back, that's not something we can change.  Do you understand that?
 Yes, sir.
Well, Sergeant...you're looking better today.  A lot better.
I...don't remember...how I got here. I don't remember...you.
That's not unusual under the circumstances, a mild antrograde amnesia.  It'll come back to you in bits and pieces...in flashes.  Your prognosis is for complete recovery from all your wounds...you're one of the lucky ones. (glances significantly toward the Blind Soldier) By tomorrow you'll be on your way to England where you'll continue post- op care for about a week, then back to the States.  It's gonna be rough, soldier, very rough...clean sheets, hot meals, pretty nurses.  Think you can handle it?
How long have I been here?
 Two weeks.
 Two weeks!
Twelve days, actually.  You had a close call, Sergeant, you're lucky.
I remember...
 Yes?
A...a medic!  He...saved me.
They're good men.  Brave men.
Yo Dog!  Dog here!
I'm looking...for a medic...
What's the problem, buddy?
A medic with...red hair...
You better get back on your cot, fella.
Red hair.  Around here that's O'Hara.
Where can I find him?
Missing in Action.  About a week. Better get back in your bunk, okay?
Hey, right here!  I'm Easy.
Jury duty!  For Christ sake!  I'm supposed to serve on a jury in Brattleboro, Vermont?
Goines!
Holy...shit!  Sarge!  I...thought ...we all thought...we thought you were...
No.  No, I...I made it.
 Rock, John.  What happened?  They shelled us... How many casualties...?
Since then?  Shit, Sarge, you don't know?
No.  No, I've been...I don't remember...
 They ate us alive.  First the arty, then the krauts...bad ones...worse than Kassarene...the Colonel assigned us to the ass...everybody's falling back, we're protecting the rear... eighty per cent casualties.
Eighty per cent!
More by now.  Eighty per cent two days ago.  There was hardly anyone left when they took me out.  I'd be dead if it wasn't for the medics...
What about the Wildman?  What about Flavin and Pascalano?
Flavin didn't make it.  Wildman was okay.  Pascalano too, and Beef.  I dunno about Mitchell or Texas.  Like I said, we all thought you were dead too.  What's in the package?  My girl sent me dry socks.  Argyles!  Ha ha.
You just told me you had about sixty miles of gas, Private.  That's enough to get me to the line and get you back, so what's the problem?
I thought you wanted to go south, sir. This gas is southerly gas, sir.  It don't go north, it's a matter of internal combustion.
I see.  What do I need to get some "northerly gas"...a written order from the Colonel and threat of a court martial?
 No, sir.  What you need is a lotta luck and a different driver.
The bastards bombed the hospital! They bombed the hospital!
What the hell?
Runner, sir.
Well?
 Dog's...falling back, sir, like you said for 'em to.  Twenty-two ambulatory...six non-ambulatory. Their walkie talkie was busted, that's why...
What about Easy?
There...ain't no Easy, sir.  Not to speak of.  Four guys from the third platoon, six from the fourth.  They're dug in around the mouth of the pass down there...
"Dug in"!  Did you tell them to fall back?
They can't move, sir.  Krauts got two fifties right on 'em.  I got as close as I could and shouted.  I think they heard me.
 All right, what about Baker?  Where the hell is Baker?
Couldn't find any live ones, sir, but I spotted four dead niggers near the mouth of the pass on that side...
"Negroes," soldier, not "niggers." "Negroes!"
Well, whatever they were, sir, they're dead now, Major.  They been gutted.
"Gutted"?
Mutilated, sir.  At least that's what it looked like through my glasses, I couldn't get near 'em.  It looks like the krauts killed 'em and ripped 'em open.
Jesus!  And there was no sign of the rest of Baker?
 Sir, there's krauts all over down there.  Anybody down there is damn near surrounded.
Say, Sergeant, can I give you a lift?
I guess...I guess you...you've been up on the line already, huh, Sergeant?
Yes, sir.
I guess you've heard of Easy Company...
Easy Company, sir?
You must have, they're supposed to be the roughest outfit around, they were in North Africa, the only company that held ground when Rommel and the Afrika Korps attacked the Kassarene Pass. Of course I guess it wouldn't be really the same outfit, there were heavy casualties, a lotta them musta been killed.
 Right...heavy casualties...  Why are you interested in Easy, Lieutenant?
I'm their new C.O.
...so I hadda M.A. in psychology and they were looking for guys like me to work in the War Department.  Psy- war stuff, intelligence, desk jobs... actually interesting work for someone in my field...
And you turned them down?
Pretty stupid, huh?  It was guilt. This kid down the block, I used to play ball with him, he lost both arms over in North Africa.  And this other kid I didn't know so well got killed in the Pacific...I already felt guilty and I figured it was gonna get worse, so here I am, headed for the line, the C.O.  I know everything...and I don't know anything...and I'm in charge.
 Cigar, sir?
We're gonna make a run for it.
In daylight?
When Wildman gives the signal, Klu's gonna give us some cover if they open up...
Oh, they'll open up, you can count on it.
Shit!  You think that's a good idea?
Doesn't matter what I think, that's the plan.
Yeah, yeah, Wildman makes me nervous. I wish Rock was here.
 Oh, that'd be great, just great. We're pinned down, you know what that asshole would do?
Get us outta here alive maybe?
Attack.
When he signals, head for that big rock back there about a hundred yards, take cover there.  Got it?
Green one.
Yeah?  That's good luck, a green one?
You could have one, Ger, go ahead.
Be a waste.  I'm not superstitious.
Sure ya are.  Indians are religious, you got Gods and stuff, I believe in Lady Luck, it's the same thing.
You believe in lifesavers, it's different.
I'm not dead, am I?  Or maimed?
So we provide cover, then what?
We'll cover you from the rock back there.  Just don't fire till they do. They might not ever shoot.
 Right.
In daylight?  Why don't we wait till it's dark?
'Cause they'll put up flares like they did last night.
Yeah, but daylight's worse!
Don't start that shit, just go when he signals.
How far are they?
 Not far enough, they're gonna have to come back.
We can't make it, we gotta go back.
Back.  Get back in the holes.
Where you hit?  Pardee!  Where'd you get hit?
I dunno, I dunno.  It hurts!
Where?  Where's it hurt?
I dunno.  In my body!  I can't move, I can't move.
Great plan, that was a great plan.
They got our positions again.  We're gonna get some mortar fire.
What'd I tell ya?
They killed the Indian, they killed Gerry!
Get in, you're drawing fire.
Bastards won't even let us run.  We were running!
We shouldn'ta shot those last two mortar shells, we shoulda saved 'em...
Shut up.
Listen, Pardee, I can't do anything for you, okay?  I'm gonna grab your clips and go back to the hole.  We'll come back an' getcha when it's dark.
Right, yeah.  Gimme another shot.
 Too soon.
I'm not gonna make it, Beef, I'm not gonna make it.
 Yeah, yeah, you're gonna be okay. We'll getcha tonight.  It hurts, right?  That's good.  It's when you can't feel it, that's when you got a problem.
Message from Regimental, sir.
Permission to withdraw?
No, sir.  A General from Division's coming forward to survey the situation.  They --
 A General!  Up here!  Great Christ Almighty we can't protect a General! We can't protect ourselves.  Did you tell them we've got men pinned down and we can't pull 'em out?
 They won't accept "pinned down," sir.
What?
Colonel's orders.  All transmissions must say "not pinned down."
"Not pinned down!"  Jesus H. Christ.
Get Regimental!  Tell them we can't protect a General unless he brings an armored division with him.  Tell them we want permission to withdraw, we're suffering heavy casualties and we're about to be overrun.
Uh, also, sir...we have, er, some replacements...
Replacements?
Uh, Lieutenant Goryl and Sergeant Rock, for Easy Company.
Right.  Rock.  You were injured.
Fully recovered, sir.
Good.  You were lucky, luckier than your buddies anyway.
Sir?
Decimated.  We got the first and third platoons out with fifty per cent casualties.  What's left of the Second and Fourth are down in those woods, trapped, along with what's left of Baker.
You're pulling out without them, sir?
Oh, God no, Sergeant.  I've got the whole HQ platoon here, almost thirty men.  What we're gonna do is attack, all thirty of us. We're gonna jump those Waffen SS (you were right about that, Sergeant) and kick their Nazi butts all the way to Rome, bet yer ass.  Fuck yes!  We're gonna save those poor bastards from Easy and those Baker Negroes, yessir!
Western slope, is that right, sir?
Huh?  Hold on, Sergeant, you're reassigned to HQ, what -- ?
Where the hell does he think he's going?
Sergeant!  Sergeant Rock!  Get your ass back here!  Pronto!
 Lieutenant!  I want that man back here.  Get him back here on the double!
Right away, sir.
Sergeant!  Hey, Sergeant!
Sergeant, the Major wants us back there.  He's ordering us back to HQ.
 I can't hear him, sir.  It's the shells.
I couldn't hear him either.
 I think we're getting kind of close, actually, sir.
Don't like shooting, Captain?
 No, sir, I don't like it and I don't know anybody who does.  Would the General like to proceed with the understanding that Major Pritchard advises us he cannot guarantee the General's safety...and that the men are already demoralized without losing a General, General?
Fair enough, Captain.  I withdraw the comment.
Christ almighty!  The asshole's honking a General off the road.
So fucking what?  They're useless bastards, Generals.  You could have all the wars you want without Generals, but you can't have shit without food.  Generals are useless, we ain't.
Cooks.  They're gonna try and give 'em a hot meal up on the line at Major Pritchard's request.
Let's get out of here. The men would rather see a hot meal than a General any...
GENERAL!  JUMP FOR IT!
Didn't get dry.
It's Wildman.
Now what?
Headed for Pardee.
What's going on?  They coming?
It's Wildman, he's covering up Pardee.
He's dead?
 From the rain.  He's still alive, he was yelling for medicine a couple a minutes ago.
Take a turn, I'll watch.
 Great.  It's raining.  You got a dry sleep, I take a wet one.
Anytime you sleep it's gonna be wet, Kluzewski, you're the horniest bastard in Italy.
What's that mean, what're ya talking about?
You think nobody notices you pounding it?  You think it's a big secret?
Horseshit!  Who says?
Everybody says!  Anytime you're off the watch you're flogging it. Pascalano warned me, he said, "He's gonna flog it an' moan everytime he shuts his eyes."
Aaaw, crap!  I'm a restless sleeper, I squirm around, maybe I make some noises...I got gas is all.  My wife used to get on me about it.
You beat your meat in front of your wife?
Fuck you!
How is he?
How do I know, am I a medic?  He's bad, I gave him a shot, he's all chewed up, I don't know what to do for him.
That was a great plan, making a run for it in daylight...
Shut the fuck up!
Kraut gun.
H-how do you know?
Faster rate of fire.
Oh.
If that place is empty, we could wait in there till dark.
Uh, right.  Good idea.
Private, I want you to go out and check our positions, make sure everyone's on their toes...
Right, sir.
They've stopped shelling.  That could mean they're approaching, it could mean...
Sir!  Orders from Battalion HQ, sir. Colonel Cronkite.
Withdraw?
Fall back to Bergamo, yes, sir.
All right, we're gonna get the fuck outta here!  Notify everybody in...
Don't waste rounds.
I was covering you.
You can't see 'em, you can't hit 'em.
What about Pardee?  Is he alive?
He's all bandaged.
Bandaged?  Whaddaya mean "bandaged"?
His chest, his gut, his wound, it's all bandaged up.  He says a medic did it.
Medic!  What medic?  Where?
He's crazy in the head, he must have a fever..
So who bandaged him?
 He musta done it himself.  There aren't any medics around here.
Can he move?  Whadder we gonna do about him?
He's crawled about ten yards already, he's resting up.
He's gonna crawl here?  Okay, then what?  We were gonna get outta here tonight.  If he can't walk...
We can't get outta here because they'll put up a flare.
So why'd we go in daylight?  We're worse off now with him non- ambulatory than if...
It's called "pinned down," asshole!
I know what it's called, Wildman. What the fuck are we gonna do about it?
You awake, Klu?  It's your watch.
There oughtta be a flag you could wave when you gotta take a crap.  Like a time out.
This is a war, not a basketball game, Kluzewski.
There's rules in war just like in basketball.  They gotta crap, we gotta crap.  You want me to crap in the foxhole?
 You crap in the foxhole, asshole, I'll kill you before the jerries get you.
I don't have to crap anyway, I didn't eat anything.
Shuddup and lemme sleep.
Sssssst!  Wildman!  Retread?  Hey, Retread!
Whip!  Whip, wake up!  Whip!
Angie!  Jesus Christ!
I been going crazy, Klu, ha ha.
Angie!  Angie, this is fucking Italy. We're at war.
I know, honey, but I got hot pants, I'm going crazy.
Angie, we can't do nothing here.  I mean, there's guys around...Germans for Christ sake!  We're in a foxhole.
Remember that time when the kids were out back...when we did it on the kitchen floor?
 The kids!  Where are the kids?
 With your parents.  Come ooooooon, baby...
 Sssssst.  Someone moving.
 Don't shoot, it could be Pardee.
Whozzat?
Lana Turner.
 Whatsa countersign?
Big tits, stupid.
Big tits.
Tell me...tell me the truth.
What truth?
I'm alive, right?
Yeah.
I thought maybe I was dead.  You know who I saw out there...three minutes ago?
Who?
Sergeant Rock!  I seen Rock!
Fuck you.
Sergeant Rock!  I swear to God.
He's dead, asshole.
That's what I'm talking about.  He's dead, but I see him, what's that make me?  He's out there, him and another guy.
 Give him a dose, he's fucked up from the wound.
You got a fever, Pardee...
He said to me, "Ssssst!  Pardee!  You okay?"  I said, "I dunno, Sarge.  I thought you were dead."  "Where's the Wildman?" he says...
Shut up, Pardee.  Shut up and swallow.
..."Wildman's over there," I go, "dug in."  "What about the rest," he says, "Who's left?"
Hallucination.
Well, I told him...or it...the hallucination, and the hallucination crawled off with this other guy, this other hallucination.
 Rock isn't out there, Pardee.
Maybe we're all dead.
Hey, I see something.
Again?
Over there...something moved.
Where?
Over there.  Watch.
Might be Pardee.
Kluzewski, you asshole, cut it out.
Wake up, you dumb fuck!
What's goin' on?
You an' the krauts, you're both coming!
Who's that?  Who the fuck is that over there?
Dunno!  Krauts?
Not krauts.
Who?
Jesus Christ!
The bastards blew up.
It was a grenade.
I thought nobody had any left!
Who the fuck is shooting?
Must be Wildman.  He musta gone after 'em.
DON'T SHOOT!
It's okay, you missed me.
Who the fuck are you?
Lieutenant Goryl, your new C.O.
Yer shitting me...uh, sir.
"Girl"?
Gore-ill, Tom.
That was you over there with the BAR?
Right.  As soon as Sergeant Rock takes out the second machinegun position, we're gonna move out.
 Rock!
Alive?
You're sure?
I toldja.
We're supposed to put Pardee on a poncho and move out when Rock takes out the second machinegun.
Sergeant Rock!  He's alive?
He's gonna take out the other gun, then we're supposed to go according to Lieutenant Girl...
"Girl"!
No such luck, pal.  He's pretty, but it's just a name.
How's he gonna take out the machinegun?
He got the first one, didn't he?  You hear that Kraut fucker crying?  Ask him.
I like Rock.  He's a sonofabitch, a real goddamn leader.
Where we going, huh?
Up the pass.  There's a hut, we meet Rock there.  In a meadow.
 Fuck.
 Listen.
That's the kraut gun.
He didn't get 'em, they got him.
Come on, men, let's keep moving.
Maybe a couple of us should go back. Me and Retread.
No.  Keep moving.  Let's go.
Rock ain't dead.  He's fucking indestructible, can't be killed.  We just seen that, we thought he was gone, we see him half dead, then he shows up.
Who the fuck they shooting at?
Colored guys.  From Baker.  They were on the east slope.
Bullshit!  Not Baker.  Fucking Rock got the kraut gun and he's shooting the goddamn huns with their own gun, that's all.
 Give me more medicine.  For the pain.
 I gave you all I had.
 How come you talk German without an accent?
 My parents came from the Ruhr.
 Too bad, they should've stayed.  You guys don't have a chance.  We're like a big machine, the Panzers are coming now, tanks.
 We eat tanks, we piss on them, tanks are nothing to us.
 THERE'S ONLY ONE, HE'S ALL ALONE!  GET HIM!  WILLIE!  CHRISTIAN!  GET HIM!
No hut up there, sir.
I must have got turned around.  It's that way.  Let's go.
We're fucking lost.  I got no confidence in this kid at all!
Naked?  Bare ass?
Fucking aye!  Bare fucking ass!  Boots and a helmet is all...
A helmet with three stars!
He says his jeep got shelled, gasoline all over his uniform.  Took it off so he wouldn't catch fire.
Poor bastard was out there in the woods buck naked for about three hours...
"General Cook," huh?  I never hearda no General Cook.
 "Cook, Third Division, gimme that uniform, private.'
 He took your fucking uniform?
Am I gonna say "Fuck you, General"?
It makes you wonder sometimes if this is a war or a comedy...
Comedy, my ass!  That bastard ain't funny unless getting killed is ha-ha! You know what he's doing, he's in there telling Pritchard we're gonna stick it out.  The dumb shit wants to attack, he's calling for support...
You get your man to repeat the order. I want at least a dozen howitzers, I want Long Toms, I want air support, and I want six rifle companies by...
General, I don't think you quite grasp our situation here.  By the time any support arrives we'll already be --
"Then up spoke brave Horatius, the Captain of the gate!  'To all the men upon this earth, death cometh soon or late! And how can man die better than by facing fearful odds for the ashes of his fathers and the temples of his gods?"
I...uh, I beg your...pardon, General?
Tennyson!  You didn't learn Tennyson at The Point, Major?  Goddamn pity.  Of course we don't believe in all that crap about ashes of fathers and temples of gods, that's Greek stuff... but we believe in our families, our loved ones, our country, and Jesus Christ...and our men down in that pass.
General, that's very emotional stuff about "fearful odds," but, as you know, sir, wars are won with tactics and...
"'Hew down the bridge, Sir Consul, with all the speed ye may, and I with two to help me will hold the foe at bay!'"  "'For in yon straight path a thousand may well be stopped by three, now who will stand on either hand and fight the foe with me?'"  That's your tactics!  It was a bridge, see?  Narrow like that pass down there.  The idea was three men could stand off an army of thousands...and they did!  That's called "tactics mitt balls," got that?
General, our situation is very serious and I don't think we should discuss this in front of...
What's that?
Looks like paint, sir.
 Paint!  What kind of paint?
I imagine it's Italian paint, General, it was here when we established HQ. I wonder if we could continue our discussion of tactics in private so that...
It's white paint!
I was beginning to think it didn't exist.
 The Sergeant and I checked it out this afternoon.  It's abandoned.
Yeah?  I smell smoke.
Me too.
 I'm gonna look it over.  I need a volunteer to go with me.
You.  Let's go.
I'll say this for the Lieutenant, he's goin' himself, he didn't send two of us.
That's 'cause he's so fucking green he's more scared of us than the krauts.  He'll learn.
Window's covered with something.
Cover me.  I'm going in.
I got more experience, sir.  I could go in.
I need more experience.  Cover me.
Sergeant Rock is preparing a light repast of hot K rations and he wonders if we would care to dine with him.
What'd I tell you?  The bastard can't die, he's superhuman!
That true what Whip said about the hospital?  The Krauts bombed it?
 It coulda been an accident.
It killed Goines, right?  Chopper was probably there too, and Fortuna.
Some accident.
Well, I guess we gotta stop being nice to the Germans, right, fellas?  No more Mister Nice Guy.
Fuck you, Retread.
 It's snowing out.
There you are, sunny Italy, vacationland of Europe.
Any country's gonna be shit when it's winter an' people are shooting at you.
Lieutenant, with your permission I'd like to take a couple of men and scout ahead to make sure they didn't get behind us, make sure we got a clear way to fall back.
Right.  That's a good idea, Sergeant.
While we're scouting, sir, you might want to distribute the mail...
You picked us 'cause we didn't get no mail, right?
I didn't look.  It's gonna be tough hauling Pardee on the high ground. Let's check the pass, see what we see.
You know I don't ever get mail.  Whip neither.
It coulda got lost at Regimental. Things are pretty fucked up back there.
Just because nobody writes us is no reason for us to pull extra duty, Sergeant.
We'll mark trees to make sure we can find our way back.
Jones, William...
He...ain't with us no more.
Oh.  Uh, sorry. Uh...Blake, Thomas.
Uh, absent?
Dead.
I can't pronounce this, it, uh, looks Italian.  Eff ay...are...are...ay...
Farracci.
Shit!
Why don't you let me distribute 'em, Lieutenant?
Yes.  Good idea, Corporal.
Here ya go, Klu.
Thank Christ!  I was thinking maybe none of us were alive!
We're not gonna learn anything more. We better get back.
While we can.  I hope you know the way.
Rifles?
Not M-1s.  Maybe Italian rifles or something.
Trees!
Trees?
Looka this, willya?  Looka what I got? A fucking toilet!  I'm gonna take a shit like a human being.  I'm gonna take a proper fucking crap!
Seconds!
Thirds!
Next!
After Texas.
Whatsa matter, Kluzewski, you constipated or you got to like squatting?
Yeah, yeah, count me in.
 This is a democracy here on the line, Lieutenant, no officers latrine.
Fair enough, I'm last.
He oughtta go outside, he's gonna stink up our luxury accommodation.
Who could smell it?  We all stink so bad we can't smell anything but ourselves.
 Fucking aye!  We're all disgusting! Can you imagine if some woman walked in here?  What she'd think of us?  A buncha animals...
Worse than animals!  Animals clean themselves.
That's what so great about women, you know?  How clean they are!
That isn't all that's so great about them, in case you forgot...
Pasky's right.  Even the dirty ones are clean...
They smell like soap...
Or clean sheets...
Their hair especially...
Yeah.  Their hair...
I believe we got artillery support after all.
Let's go.
There!  There's one of our marks.
Aw shit!
This way.
SPLIT UP!
Sarge!  You okay?  What's going on? Those tanks are trucks or what?
Tanks.  Get inside.
Shit!  It's letting up, the wind's blowing the snow away.
We can't fight tanks...
I think we should sit tight, there's a chance they'll go right past us.
Good idea, Sergeant.  I --
No, it ain't!  Hit the deck!
Where's Pardee?  Where's Beef?
Where's my rifle?
Fuck your rifle.
Help!  I'm caught!  Me and Beef.
I got him!  You guys take off!
Everybody down, the krauts don't see us.
Sonofabitch!
Bazooka!
Helluva shot!
 Who...?
I dunno, sir.
That machinegun...it's slower...
One of ours.
You don't think maybe we're getting support?
 That Major said there was another outfit, Baker, in the area.  It was probably them with the bazooka.
HIT IT!
On the left, ten o'clock.
Hey, Rock, that you?
Who's got good legs?
Betty Grable.  Who got the big tits?
Who's a big asshole?
Adolph Hitler!
...so we can't see shit in the snow, can't find Rock, can't find our marks, an' all of a sudden we're surrounded...
...Not by krauts, by colored guys...
Baker Company, about ten of 'em...
That's all that's left of their first platoon...
They're as beat up as us...they got this sergeant...
As big as Sergeant Rock an' black as coal...
 "You gennlemen see any nazzies?  We lookin' for nazzies."
"Bet your ass," we say.  "About eight tanks."
This Sergeant just grins like he likes tanks...
They got a bazooka and a light machinegun...
So we hear the engines, then we see the tanks going after you guys...
They're almost on top of you!  "That's our outfit," we say...
This sergeant goes, "Siiiilk."
That's the name of his bazooka man...Silk!
He takes his time, he aims, he aims, he aims...
BAM! Two hundred yards!  Bullseye!
Right in the treads!  Coolest sonofabitch I ever seen!  Impossible shot!
...Silk says "Lightning..."
...that's his loader's name, "Lightning!"...
...smoothest loader you ever saw, and fastest...
...just like lightning...
...and BAM!  Another bullseye, right in the turret this time.
We were there.
So when the krauts turn...and start at the colored guys, the colored guys fall back.
This Sergeant says, "We ain't gonna fight 'em here, we gonna fight 'em in de pass."
Me an' Retread hid out under a log...
"Fight 'em."  Ten guys are gonna "fight" a buncha tanks?
 Hey!  Where's Pardee?
 The thing about the colored is they're quitters, when things get tough they run.
Well, at least they didn't quit before they saved your ass, huh, Beef?
I'm just saying what I heard is all. I never met no colored people.
They're going to the pass.  We should move up on the slope to avoid them.
 "Siiiilk"...
This is nuts!
You're telling me it's nuts?
If it was just the Major, I'd tell him to blow it out his ass...
Suuuure you would.
...but that fucking General!  I'm not crossing that General.
General Bare Ass!
Looks good, men.
Uh, what should we write next, sir?
Think of a good one.  How about "Mussolini is a cocksucker"?
Who can spell "Mussolini"?
Who can spell "cocksucker"?
Tanks.
 Tanks!
I saw at least two of them, just glimpsed them...
We can't fight tanks, General...
There was some kind of skirmish, the men must be taking them on...
General!  It's just a handful of colored boys and what's left of Easy. They can't --
Brave bastards!  Real fighters!  Did you request artillery?
Yessir...
You said "General Cook wants full air support, General Cook wants arty including twenty howitzers and Long Toms, General Cook wants -- "
-- six rifle companies and armored support.  I requested everything per your instructions, but, General...even if they come through with the support, it'll be too late, we'll be overrun by --
Shut up, Pritchard, you'll rattle the men.
Come on, Major, let's help with the painting.
I don't understand the point of the painting, General...
 Morale, Major.  It's not good to sit around on your ass, thinking about dying.  Much better to be standing on your feet, saying "Fuck you!"
Who're they shooting at?
Yeah!  Siiiiilk!
 Sonofabitch!
What the fuck are they doing?
 It's Baker?  The same men?
Yeah.  It must be.
They blocked it!  They blocked the pass.
Sonofabitch!
Those sonofabitches!
God damn!
Tough outfit.  I could see that.
The krauts'll just blow those rocks out with some charges.
Maybe so, but those colored took out three tanks so far and they're slowing 'em down to put charges in.  All we're doin' is runnin'.
They better start runnin' pretty quick.
Christ Almighty!  Whaddaya wanna bet Rock's talking the Lieutenant "Girl" into taking a couple volunteers and shooting up that kraut ambush unit? It's hero time again.
 Shit, they gotta be crazy, they ain't backin' up.
We're supposed to be pulling back, we're heavily outnumbered...
Myself and two men only at risk.  We slip fifty yards down the slope, snipe at that outfit, make 'em dig in and hide.  Maybe we wound a couple, slow them down.  That alerts Baker and gives them some time to get the hell out.
 Sergeant, you and I have a responsibility to get our men out of here.  These colored guys are being very...heroic.  Maybe foolhardy. Maybe foolishly heroic.
So let's give them a chance to save their ass, like they did for us.  Give them some running room.  Three of us, sir.
Bullshit!
It happened to a guy.  He was in this car accident, they take him to the hospital, they give him colored blood by accident...
An' his kids come out colored?
How do ya know it was from the blood?
How else is he gonna get a colored kid?
The Sergeant wants volunteers...
What'd I tell ya?
He wants to attack the Germans below us and withdraw immediately.
 I'm on.
 I'll go.
Me too.
How come?  I thought you were against this?
I am.  I just figure I'm better off attackin' Rome with Rock than walking through the fucking woods with Wonder-Goryl.
Hold it.  Right here.  They'll pass between those two boulders down there, see?  When I say fire, we open up, we might hit as many as four men.
Then what?
We fire a few rounds, keep 'em honest, then we withdraw.
Demolition team, trying to get to the rocks and blow 'em up...
And Baker ain't lettin' 'em do it.
Those bastards, they really hang tough.
That's how we were at Kassarene.
We hit three for sure.
Five I think.
For Pardee, ya kraut pig!
What're they saying, Sarge?
 They're unhappy.
No shit.
They don't like us...
Aaaawwww...
 Or our mothers.
Shit!  Our mothers!  Really, they said...?
 Or our nigger Jew friends.
Listen, Sarge...see that rock over there...jutting out?  If someone got out there, they could drop a grenade right on top of those guys.
"Someone"...?
Baker's still taking 'em on...
Go ahead.  Here.
Mama...pleeeeease.  Could I have two cookies, mama?
Wildman.  Where's he goin'?
Gonna deliver some fruit...
That well known dessert, pineapple pie!
HEY, FARRACCI, YOU WOP BASTARD! FARRACCI, UP IN HEAVEN, WATCH THIS!
THAT'S FOR FARRACCI, YOU DIRTY HUNS, THAT'S FOR THE DARING DAGO, EAT IT, YOU NAZZEY ASSHOLES!
Getting behind Rock.
YOU ASSHOLES DON'T LIKE COLORED GUYS, HUH?  HERE'S ONE FOR THE COLORED G...
OH, GOD!  OH, CHRIST!  OH MY GOD, CHRIST ALMIGHTY, I'M HIT, OH SHIT! I'M HIT BAD, OH CHRIST!
 Wha...what...?
Goddamn short fuse!  Fuck!
We better warn Rock, Lieutenant.
No.
If we warn him, we give away our position and we leave Rock surrounded anyway.
 Yeah?  So whadda we gonna do, Lieutenant?
We m-move down, w-we get p-position on the krauts and wh-when they t-try to ambush R-rock, we b-beat the shit outta them.  Let's go, Retread, take the rear...f-f-follow me, fellas.
If this is what it's like to "fall back," I don't wanna know what's an attack.
The bullshit is, Rock gets us into this, then if we get out alive, Pascalano's gonna tell me how Rock saved our ass an' as long as we soldier with Rock we live forever, we got charmed lives.
I got serious doubts about living forever, Retread.  Serious doubts.
 Sssssssst.  Keep quiet.
How the fuck do we get him back up, Sarge?
Carry him.  Gimme another bandage.
Okay, let's go.  Klu, you give me a hand with Wildman...Pascalano, watch our ass,
Hit it, Sarge, they're above us.
Klu!  You okay?
S-so far.
Pascalano?
I'm o...
 ...kay, S-sergeant.
What the hell are we gonna do, Sarge? I can't move, I'm pinned.
Hang tight, the Lieutenant'll support us.
He's a kid, he'll shit his pants.
That's him now.
Hold your fire, I think we got 'em.
Cover me, Retread.
How'd joo know, Sarge?  About the Lieutenant...
You remember that time in Kassarene with that armored car?
"Remember"!  I shit my pants!
Yeah, but after you shit your pants, you took out the armored car, you remember that?
And you knew I would?
Keep those guys pinned down.
Lieutenant?  You okay?
 Yeah.
It's bad enough when the krauts get you...but when your own fucking weapon gets you...
Where's the Lieutenant?
Uh, I, uh...taking, uh, a crap.
 Want some clean underwear?  I got one pair.
 Yeah?
We all done it.  It don't matter. (pulling underwear from pack) Listen, it ain't the load in your pants that matters, Lieutenant... It's how you carry the load.
Oh.
 You didn't smell too bad there, sir.
Christ, he looks bad, Sarge.
Shock.  He needs blood, he needs a medic.
More like he needs a miracle!
Demolition team.  They're gonna clear the pass.
Wish I had the range...
Don't waste a round.
The colored guys are still there!
The bastards didn't get out...
 They're not gonna let the krauts clear the pass.
They're crazy!  We gave 'em a goddamn chance to get out.  They're nuts! They're stupid!
All a that.  And balls of pure steel!
Be dark soon, sir.  We could slip out then.
 That must be what Baker's gonna do too.  Wait for dark.
Listen, sir, I know this is my fault.  It was my idea to --
 It was your idea, but it was my decision.  I'm the officer, Sergeant...
Yes, sir, but I kind of talked you into --
 I could have said "no," Sergeant.
Right, sir.
 Somethin' from the Government, Mister Van Rocklin.
Hope it ain't bad news or anythin'.
It's all right.  He was injured, but he's all right.
But it's all right now.  It's not serious anymore.  He's in a hospital, they're going to send him home.
Hush now, it's all right.  He's safe.
Ready?  Go ahead.  You got him?  Lift. Unnnhh.  Okay, let's go.  Ready, Sergeant?  All set, sir.  Texas, point.  Retread, rear.  Retread? Retread?
Aw shit.  Sarge!  Sssssst, Sarge.
If he only saw one man...
He heard two planes.  That means at least two squads.  It could be a whole company.
Then we're...surrounded.  Cut off. They're behind us.
The question is...do we proceed or do we stay put?
If we proceed, we'll run into them up there in the woods...
...and they'll have the advantage, they're hunting us, we've got a wounded man...
If we stay, we've got a solid defensive position, they'll have a tough time getting at us, but...
...but we'll be stuck here in the morning.  Probably pinned down.
Between the devil and the deep blue sea.
Between the rock and the hard place... There isn't any right answer, Lieutenant...
But there's probably a wrong one...
I'm not gonna second guess you no matter how it turns out...
 We'll dig in.  Position the men in twos, take turns awake, tell them to be very alert...It might not be mortars and machineguns...these could be commandos.
Right, sir.
Also, Sergeant...
 Send a man off on the flank about fifty yards...
 Sir?
So he doesn't give our position away. I want him to yell a warning to Baker. About the paratroopers.  They may not have seen them.
 Good idea, sir.
HEY, BAKER!  HEY, BAKER, THIS IS EASY! THE DEGENERATE MINDLESS PIG GERMANS DROPPED AN AIRBORNE COMPANY BEHIND US. WATCH YOUR AMERICAN ASS!  WATCH --
Nothing.  No acknowledgement.
They're not gonna give their position away.
Could be they fell back already, got away...
Or maybe the paratroopers already got 'em...cut their throats...
All right, knock it off.  Split up in twos, take turns watching, stay alert...
We're fucked, you know that?  Stuck here!  We really got our tit in a ringer this --
 That's enough, Beef.  Listen up, all of you.  Beef's right, we're in a pile of shit.  it's my fault, I got us into this because I thought we should back up Baker...
 Well, that's tough, ladies...this is a war, we're supposed to fight.
 Now those guys in Baker, they might have a little more ammo than us, they might have a bazooka...but there's about ten of them and about ten of us.  They're just as beat up as us, just as tired as us, and they're not getting pussy any more than we are. In fact the krauts are pounding them a lot worse than us.  And every time the krauts give those colored guys some shit, those colored guys dish some shit out.  They wrecked three tanks today and they've held up a German column more than six hours. You think they fell back?  You think they're dead?  Or you think they got pissed off and they're on their way to Berlin, all ragged ass ten of 'em, gonna string up the Fuhrer by his dick? (he pauses, glaring, then... ) All right, take your positions and let's hope we acquit ourselves half as good as those guys.
I don't think the colored guys left for Berlin yet, Sergeant.
He never called us nothin' like that before..."ladies"...!
I never seen him so upset...this is the worst...worse than when Weller fell asleep that time...
It's causa the Wildman.  They go way back...an' he knows Wildman ain't gonna make it.
 I think there's someone out there.
Klu...honey...please, not now, I unnnh I unnnh I'm gonna come... don't...please...unnnnhh...unnnhh...
Angie, you fucking bitch, that's my partner.  You're fucking my partner, you whore...
Klu...I couldn't find you...I got hot pants, Klu...it was you I wanted...
Jesus, Klu, she's your wife?...Hey, I'm sorry, I didn't know she was your wife, I --
Who the fuck did you think she was, you stupid shit?
I dunno.  I was asleep, I was thinking about my...girlfriend.  All of a sudden I'm getting a blow job.  My girlfriend never did that, she wouldn't --
 You gave him a blow job?
Klu, I told you, I got hot pants, I wanted a man, I looked for you, but I couldn't find --
Hey, Klu, take it easy, don't be so hard on her, she's no different than us, she gets horny and...
She gets horny and she fucks anything that moves.  We don't got no women, but she's around men.  How about it, Ange, how many times you had the postman, huh?
Once!  Only one time, Klu...
 YOU FUCKED THE POSTMAN!
Klu, easy, buddy, there's Nazis all over, keep it down.
 FUCK THE NAZIS!  DID YOU HEAR WHAT SHE SAID, YOU ASSHOLE?  SHE FUCKED THE POSTMAN!  PROBABLY WHILE THE KIDS WERE WATCHING!  WERE THE KIDS WATCHING, YOU B...?
Goddamnit, Klu, pull yourself together.
WHIP!  IT'S NAZIS!  FUCKIN' NAZIS!
NO!
ANGIE!  YOU GODDAMN SLUT!
But, honey, you just said "fuck the Nazis"...oooooooh...uuunnh!
 Klu!  Help me!  Klu!
DIRTY KRAUT BASTARD, I'LL KILL YOU, YOU PIG!
 Ughhhh.  KLU!  HELP!
What...
Ssshhh.  I dunno.
 What the fuck're you doing?
Can't find my lifesavers.
Who is it?
Max Schmelling.
 Joe Louis.  Come in.
Couple of krauts jumped us, tried to kill us quietly, slit our throats...
Is Kluzewski okay?
 He killed both guys with his bare fucking hands.  This guy was choking me, trying to cut my throat, Klu grabbed him, beat his head against a rock... (shaken, he indicates his shirt) Th-these...these are...brains all over my shirt.  A German guy's brains...
Pull yourself together and go back to your position.
I should tell the Lieutenant.  I was looking...
I'll tell the Lieutenant, I'll alert everyone, go back.
Right.  Thanks, Sarge.
Fucking perverts...
Max Schmelling.
Joe Fucking Lewis.  That you, Whip?
I told Rock.  I see you're playing with your rifle instead of your dick for a change.
Fuck you.
Spit it out.
Max Schmelling.
Joe Louis.
They're trying to commando us, take us in twos.  I'm gonna alert the men.
You hear that?
Oh, fuck!
Whozzat?  Spit it out.
Ow, goddamnit.
Izzat you, Retread?
Say it!  Say "Schmelling," you asshole!
Fuck.
Say it!
Schmelling.
Joe Louis.  Is that you, Re...urrrgh!
 Biggle-oww.  Bigga-low.  Bigelow. Fuck.
Fuck.  Fuck.  Fuck.
Sussigkeiten.
Fuck.  Shit.
Ssssssst.
Who goes?
Schmelling, who's that?
 Joe Louis.  That you, Sarge?
What happened, Sarge, what's going on?
The krauts are blowing up all those boulders, clearing the pass.
Helluvan outfit, those colored guys.
Yeah, but the tanks are gonna go through.  They're heroes, but it don't mean anything.  They're like the Sergeant...
Why do you hate Rock?
I don't hate him, he's okay...for an asshole.  It's just his style pisses me off, he's too much of a hero.
Meaning he takes risks?
For nothing.  Soldiers don't win wars. Planes win, big guns win, ships. Soldiers are so much fodder.  You think we wanted this pass?  If we wanted this pass, they woulda put in an armored outfit with air support, heavy artillery, long toms...
Sssssh!
Fuck.
Identify yourself.
Shit.
Say the password or I shoot.
Schmelling.  Fuck.
Joe Lewis.  Who is it?
Bigelow.
They got Texas and Bigelow, I found them with their throats cut.
They...they knew the password.  One of them said "Bigelow."
They won't use it anymore.  Better collect their potato mashers, Retread. I'm gonna see to the Wildman.  I left him alone.
I said he was an asshole...I didn't say he wasn't a good soldier.
What the fuck's goin' on down there?
The krauts are taking a long time to get through fifteen or twenty guys...
I heard that Easy outfit was tough, they were at Kassarene, they got that big Sergeant...
The one with the medals...
Baker's down there too, colored guys...
Colored guys aren't gonna fight like that, not when they're outnumbered, colored guys are quitters.
Horseshit!  What about Joe Louis?
Hey, this ain't a boxing match, this is a fucking war.  I got nothing against Negroes, but they're scareda guns.
Me too.  I'm scareda guns.
Yeah, now that you mention it...
Uh-oh.
Sign and countersign, soldier, you have to challenge everyone.
Right, sir...spit it out, General.
Red Grange.
Number seventy-seven.
Where the hell is he going?
Must be gonna take a crap.
And bring it back in a bucket?
At ease!
Uh, sorry, sir, we, uh, didn't see you...
Where did the General go?
 Down there, sir.
Stick with him, all three of you. I'll post a new watch.
Uh, "stick with him," sir?
Protect your fucking pants.
Some confusion, even some memory loss, is normal with a concussion, General. You're very lucky that's all you suffered under the circumstances.
There was a Captain Sloan with me. Is he...did he...?
Sloan was killed in the explosion, you were thrown clear.  Apparently a shell hit a truck close to you...
 A truck, yeah, I remember.  Cooks. They were killed too?
Two were killed, one seriously injured, another is missing.  Listen, General, Colonel Cronkite wondered if you were feeling well enough to talk with him...?
Hullo, General.  We're all glad you made it.
Hell of a thing about Captain Sloan. And the others.  Sonofabitch!  I assume we've pulled back, I assume you...
 Uh, not...exactly, sir.  The krauts seemed to have, uh, launched an armored assault and, uh, we, uh, seem to be...seem to be...holding them, sir.
"Holding them"!  With what?  How?
I can't explain it, sir.  It's all very confused, we've lost radio contact with Battalion HQ.  But our spotter plane reported a dozen Panzers tied up in the throat of the pass...
A dozen Panzers!  We gotta get the hell outta there, you can't fight Panzers with a rear guard...
Well, uh, General, before we lost communication with Battalion, we relayed a message from General Cook to Regimental requesting air and artillery support for --
 General Cook!  Who the fuck is General Cook?
"Fuck Hitler"?
That's what it said.  Huge letters.
Baker maybe.  They musta done it, those guys are crazy.
But no Germans?
No, sir.  Didn't see any an' I went about half a mile into the woods.
Baker musta taken the heat for us again.  Seven guys on us, Baker gets the rest.
That's it, they got it cleared.
Bastards.
We're officially behind enemy lines now I guess.
A mine!  They musta mined it.
 They're there!  They're still fucking there!
 Siiiiiiilk!
 Those bastards.  God damn!
I guess we better move.  Baker's giving us another chance.
Planes!  Let's go for the woods, sir!
Stay down.  He's got bombs, he's coming back.
Missed us!  Dumb bastard missed us! Fuck you, kraut!
No!  No!  No!  Don't show yourself, idiot!  No!
He gave away their position, he...
No!  No, they couldn't...
 AWRIGHT, SILK!  YEAH LIGHTNING!  YEAH BAKER!  STUKA BAZOOKA!
Aaaaaah!  Aaaah, shit!  Stay away from me, it's nothin', goddamnit, a fucking scratch, what a dumb bastard, I was cheering for Chrissake, I deserve it, aaaaahhhh...Stay the fuck away, stay away...
Where you hit, Retread?  Wh...?
I dunno, it hurts, it's okay, lee me alone, I'm just winded, aaaah, it knocked the w-wind...wind outta me aaaaaah.
Just lemme see where...
No, goddamnit, hang on.
How many?
At least six.  Probably more.
We're pretty low on ammo.
Retread is dead.
How about if I cover the rear, sir, while you and the men fall back?
Okay, give us ten minutes, then follow.
Right, sir.
We gotcha another thirty rounds.
Thanks.
 Sergeant...we're not taking Wildman.
He's not gonna make it.
Yes, sir.  I know.
And, Sergeant, don't even try to carry him, that's an order.  You're a soldier, not a hero.  We'll wait for you at --
Don't wait, sir.  I won't play hero, you don't play hero.  If I don't catch up, it's 'cause they got me.
All right, Sergeant, we're gone.
"Fell"?  Fell how?
Off a sorta cliff...
We were painting this sign...at least he was...
We were helping... holding the paint and...
 Painting...a...sign?
"Fuck Hitler."
 What?  I beg your pardon...
In big letters...
Huge letters!
General Cook...was painting "Fuck Hitler" in enemy territory...?
A cook, sir...but not a General...
His name was Cummings...
He was a cook with the Thlrd Infantry...
He was conscious for a while after he fell...
He told us everything...
They were on their way up here to give us a "hot," him anna buncha cooks in a four by four...
Booom!  German shell...
Killed his buddies...
And turned over this jeep with a Captain and a General...
He takes this helmet...a General's helmet...
He was pretty confused, he said...
"Crazed."
He wanted us to win the war.
He said the, er, leadership is...weak.
The part about his clothes being soaked with gasoline was true...
A cook!  He ordered up six rifle companies!
Outta ammo.  There they go.
Rock shoulda backed off by now.
More planes.  Poor Baker.
Okay, men, let's take cover, lets...
 Oh, beautiful, for spacious skies, For amber waves of grain...
 For purple mountains' majesty above the fruited plain...
 Hans!  I think it's only one man. Alone!
 Peter!  Throw it!
 You!  Asshole!  You hear me, nigger Jew?  Dead!  Cut your balls off!
 Hans!  Your mother's here!  Your darling mother!  Great tits!  What a woman!
 Shit, Hans!  Your mother's taking off her pants.  What an ass!  You must love her a lot!
 Hey, American, you got a good accent. Why don't you surrender?  Huh?  We'll treat you good.  Very nice.  Asshole!
 Horst!  Freidrich!  Did you get the fucker?
 A dud!
BOOOOOOOOM!
Horst?
 Help!
Steele.  Baker Company.
Rock.  Easy.
 You all alone, Rock?
Rear guard.  There's krauts all over, they...
Not no more, Rock.  There's dead bodies all over the damn woods!  You left a helluva trail, Hitler gonna be mad with you, I swear!  You really raised some hell.
 When I come up on you, it was just you and him...  ...and I says to myself, "Big Willie, if you interfere now, you an' that white Sergeant gonna have yourselves a prisoner."  An' then I ax myself, "Do you an' that white Sergeant really want a prisoner?" An' I seen you handle yourself with a certain determination, not unlike myself, an I says to myself again, "I believe that white Sergeant gonna prevail over that kraut bastard," so I didn't interfere...
We saw you and your men down in the pass...
 Yeah, we did some good soldier-work ourselves, didn't we...for a buncha country colored boys.  We're a Negro outfit.
That's not an Italian suntan, then?
Ha ha, where you from, Rock?
Akron, Ohio.  Where are your men?
 Akron, mmmmm.  Thought I recognized the accent.  My men been thinned out some, like yours.  What's left of 'em fell back, just like yours.  It's juss you an' me, the rear guard.  Think we oughtta attack or what, heh heh?
I love these German binoculars. Zeiss.  I juss keep upgrading my collection.
Kinda like the lugers too.  They say if you surrender an' the krauts find a luger on you, they torture you and kill you.
Not planning on surrendering, huh?
 The black man don't surrender, Sergeant.  The krauts figure all men of color got lugers.  They...cut up...summa my men a couple days ago.
I got a man back there half a mile. I gotta get his tags.
I'll walk witcha.
Wanna cigar?
Yeah.  You got an extra?
I wouldn't take a man's last smoke.
Plenty more.
Over there.
Hiya, Sarge.  Gonna save my ass again?
Thought you said he was...
Guess I was premature.
Dead?  You thought I was dead?  Me too.
 I wake up, I dunno where I am, hurt like hell, all I see is this red- haired guy over me, didn't know if he was a nazzey throat cutter or an angel of the Lord in heaven.  Then I see he's shooting blood in me...
 Red hair?
He was a goddamn medic.  He gives me medicine, says, "Hang on, soldier, you doan wanna die, think about your girlfriend."  Says he can't carry me himself, but somebody'll come for me, and off he goes, disappears.
 Well, I guess you thought about your girlfriend, huh?
I'm savin' myself for her.  I guess I'm gonna ride that bus again, the one with no springs...?
At ease, men.  Uh, there's some bad news and I wanted...
 Rock?  The Sergeant?
No, no, we haven't located Sergeant Rock, nothing like that.  It's just a little...problem.  I know I promised you men the next truck out...you certainly deserve it...but there was a little snafu and somebody let a bunch of colored fellows from Baker, Negroes, into the truck...
I could kick them out...but I kind of hate to do that, they fought like hell and they're as beat up as you.  I mean, there's room in the truck, but you guys'd probably rather wait for the next one...
Lightning!  Officer on board, move your ass.
At ease, men.
Say, Lieutenant, you didn't see no great big staff sergeant walkin' round out there, didja?
Colored man?  Sorta lame?
No, I'm afraid not.
He be along.  Ain't no nazzies gonna hurt Big Willie, he indestructible.
Hey, Lieutenant...
 What's up, Beef?
 This guy's got my wound!
Aaaaw shit, Silk!  You got the man's wound.
Thought it was mine, it hurts like hell!
That's it!  That's the one, "hurts like hell," that proves it's mine!
Well, shit, I ain't gonna argue with you, I ain't that partial to it anyhow, you could have it.
Well, what the hell, we're all fightin' the same war, we got a common enemy.  I ain't gonna be an asshole about it even if it is mine.  I'm gonna share it with you.
 Well, I sure do appreciate the generosity.
Say, anybody here know if we winning or losing this war?
You will hear a lot from the Germans about "will" and all that kind of shit.  Well, lemme tell you fellas something about "will."  The Germans counterattacked down there, they overwhelmed our boys, outnumbered 'em, outgunned 'em, cost them seventy, eighty per cent casualties. They opened the pass and started marching through with an armored column, a couple of rifle companies, air support, heavy artillery barrages, and there wasn't anything we could do about it.  All our fire power at that time was committed east of here, we were spread too thin to hold the pass. But Major Pritchard here and his very brave men decided they were gonna hold anyway and they were gonna test their will against some Nazzey steel.  And you don't see any nazzies on this side of the pass, do you?
Daaaaamn!  We fight an' fight, day an' night, couple weeks right on the line...an' we doan do half the damage them flyboys do in five minutes.
Yeah, that's how it is in love and war.
Ain't it true.  But I will say, when I come over here to sunny Italy an' I seen those nazzies, I about shit in my pants.  I says to myself, "Big Willie, you gonna get killed bad. Those nazzies are soldiers, they raised to kill, they be fighting machines!  Your boys ain't nothin' but farm boys and grocery clerks, you ain't but a damn truckdriver your ownself."  Probably the same with you, huh, Rock?  What you do?
Ironworker.
An' your boys be postmen an' cabdrivers an' delivery boys an' plumbers an' carpenters.
The Wildman here's a piano teacher.
A piano teacher!  Well, that's what I mean, I figured those nazzies was real soldiers, I figured they was gonna fight real good...and I wasn't wrong, was I?
Nope.
What I didn't know then was how good a buncha farm boys an' ironworkers an' such could fight.
I mean, if I was a nazzey an' I hadda go up against my men or your men, I'd be scared, you know?
Yeah.
You think we gonna win it, Rock?
