The year was 1891. London was the capital of the world -- the height of modernity, with the hiss of steam and smell of coal in the air. It was also the great cesspool into which all the sinners and criminals of the empire drained.
I had come to London, ten years prior, to find a life after the Afghan war. I had hoped to start a medical practice and settle into a nice, steady existence. The life I found was anything but nice and steady.
And that had everything to do with one man. My friend, my partner, my burden...
... Sherlock Holmes.
Sherlock Holmes?!
My apologies. Send the bill to John Watson, 221B Baker Street.
inside. Big, uniformed guys assemble their weaponry -- a 19th century SWAT team. One man stands out as a leader, older than the rest, INSPECTOR LESTRADE.
Head cocked to the left, partial deafness in right ear. First point of attack.
Then throat, paralyze vocal chords, stop screaming.
Stink of alcohol, heavy drinker -- knuckles to liver.
What's goin' on, John?
Hhhmm, good cigar. Who do you work for?
OMITTED
EMPTY_LINE
Watson.    Perfect timing.
Nice hat.
Just got it.    Where's Lestrade?
Getting his troops in formation. Is that your blood or theirs?
I don't know.    It's an old shirt.
You left this behind.
Knew I'd forgotten something. Thought I'd left the stove on.
You did.
Right.    Shall we?
Des?
7   CONTINUED:                                               7 He can see the hat, but not the man underneath.
Yeah, s'me.
The second hooded figure moves back and melts into the shadows.
The girl. 
Lord Blackwood?! Blackwood applauds softly, strangely.
Well done, Holmes. And Watson as well.
Stay right there.
Tell me, doctor, as a medical man, how did you like my work?  The fifth one was so scrawny, it was over before I'd finished the first incision.
No.
Look.
Look.
What a shame.    That would've been fun.
Impeccable timing, Lestrade.
 Is that -- ?
It is.
 We've gone for the doctor...  And one for the rope.
You should've waited for my help.
If I had, you'd be cleaning up a corpse and chasing a rumor. Besides, the girl's parents hired me, not the Yard.  I can't imagine why they thought you'd need any assistance.
What do you make of that?
Some kind of ceremony. Five girls killed beneath cathedrals at the height of the full moon.  The double circle's for his own protection.
London will breathe a sigh of relief --
-- at the excellent work of Scotland Yard. As usual.
Bravo, Lestrade. Have a cigar.
OMITTED
A negative is clipped over the paper.    A sudden flash of light as it is exposed.
Autumn has turned to winter.
71 over 104... very good, Captain.
Me nerves are the best they been in years, thanks to you.
12   CONTINUED:                                                 12 Watson is pleased by that.
Tell me something -- your new offices. There won't be so many stairs, I hope?
No -- ground floor. And there'll be a woman's touch, too. 
12   CONTINUED:                                                12 WATSON I think we can start to wean you off the medicine --
Let's give it a little longer, just to be safe.  I'll be right back.
 I won't go in there by myself, not while he's in this state.
You're not going in at all.
What will I do when you leave? He'll burn the house down around me. What will he do? Couldn't you have a longer engagement?
He just needs a new case, that's all.
I smell burning.
Why don't you take Captain Philips and give him a nice cup of tea.
Come on, Captain, let's go down. It'll be quieter.
 And perhaps some tea and bread up here when you can.
13   CONTINUED:                                                    13 Nonetheless, Watson   stops, takes a deep breath, gathers himself. Something    like this has happened before (is, in fact, Holmes' usual   brand of chaos) the difference being, now, that Watson is   sick to death of dealing with it.
May I join you in the armory?
Please... Watson, I've been working on a device which will suppress the sound of a gunshot.
Please... Don't, don't, don't...
It needs work.     May I see?...
Gently, gently, Watson...
I can't but agree. My mind rebels at stagnation. Give me problems, give me work. The sooner the better.
Paper?
Let's see, we have a letter here from Mrs. Ramsey in Queen's Park -- her husband has gone missing.
He's in Belgium with the scullery maid. Is it December?
Yes, Holmes. Lady Radford reports a missing emerald bracelet.
Insurance swindle. Lord Radford likes fast women and slow ponies. I see you're the attending physician at Blackwood's hanging.
Yes, it's our last case together and I wanted to see it through to the end.
Mr. Lewis is seeking...
 There is only one case that intrigues me at present... the curious case of Mrs. Hudson, the absentee landlady.  
Tea, Mr. Holmes.
Is it poisoned, nanny?
There's enough of that in you already.
Don't touch that. Everything is in its proper place, as per usual.
He's killed the dog... again.
What have you done to Gladstone this time?
I was simply testing a new anesthetic. He doesn't mind.
Holmes!   As your doctor...
He'll be right as a trivet in no time.
There's nothing of interest to me out there, on earth, at all.
So, you have nothing to do?
Nothing.
Then you're free this evening.
Absolutely.
For dinner.
Wonderful.
The Royale.
My favorite.
Mary's coming.
Not available.
You're meeting her, Holmes.
Have you proposed yet?
I'm still looking for the right ring.
Then it's not official.
And wear a jacket.
Holmes!   You're early. HOLMES Fashionably.
May I present Miss Mary Morstan.
My pleasure. For the life of me I don't know why it's taken him so long to get us properly introduced.
The pleasure's mine. It really is a thrill to meet you, Mr. Holmes.  
15   CONTINUED:                                                 15 MARY I've a whole stack of detective novels at home. Poe, Wilkie Collins... WATSON  It's true.
 Oh, no no. The little details are by far the most important. Take Watson...
I intend to.
... see that walking-stick? A rare African snakewood hiding a blade of high-tensile steel. A few were awarded to veterans of the Afghan war, so I can assume he's a decorated soldier. Strong, brave, born to be a man of action. And neat, like all military men. Then I check his pockets... ah. A stub from a boxing match. Now I can infer he's a bit of a gambler.  I'd keep an eye on that, by the way.
Those days are behind me.
Yes, right behind you.  He's cost us the rent more than once.
With all due respect, Mr. Holmes, you know him. But what about a perfect stranger? What can you tell about me?
I don't think that's necessary --
15   CONTINUED:                                                   15 HOLMES Yes, I doubt --
No, it'd be wonderful.   I insist.
You insist?  She insisted.  You're a governess.
Well done.
Yes, well done. So shall we --
Your student's a boy of 8.
Charlie's 7, actually.
It's breathing.  Then he's tall for his age.
Is there ink on my face?
There's nothing wrong with your face.
The gentleman has already ordered for himself.  What would madam care for this evening?
Give us a few minutes, please.
There are two drops on your ear... India blue's nearly impossible to wash off, anyway. A very impetuous act by the boy, but you're too experienced to react rashly -- which is why the lady you work for lent you that necklace. It's from Asprey's, flawless, not the gems of a governess.  However, the jewels you're not wearing tell us rather more.
You were engaged.
The ring is gone. But the lighter skin where it sat suggests you spent some time abroad wearing it proudly.
Or at least until someone informed you of its true and rather modest worth, at which point you broke off the engagement and returned to England for better prospects. A doctor perhaps.
 Right on all counts but one. I didn't leave my fiance... he died.
She's lovely.
Well done.   Thank you.
Oi!   We ain't done here.
 Not done. Finished. And as I said, thank you, it was most pleasurable.
Hm.   Plymouth gin.
A candle shivers, casting jagged shadows. A row of stone cells. The sound of prisoners SCREAMING in the dark. A full-scale riot is on.
Charlie, what the hell's going on down here?
 You lot shut it!  Charlie, get, down here and get him to the infirmary.
Blackwood sits dead center in the dark.   Eyes closed, WHISPERING ungodly sounds.
All right, Blackwood, what's this all about?
I've a request. GUARD CAPTAIN You don't get nothin' `til you stop this devil nonsense. That's a holy book --
 -- and you will respect it!
Boy, you want me to muzzle you --
19   CONTINUED:                                                     19 Blackwood keeps whispering.     The Captain falls to one knee, keeps coughing.
I've a request.
Watson walks down a dingy hallway towards a door. With a look of resignation, he opens the door to see Holmes sitting alone in the sterile, barely furnished room.
You know this is for eye surgery?
I find that it lifts my spirits.
It's a pathological amorbic process, it increases tissue change and weakness. And you know what a black reaction comes on you afterwards.
22   CONTINUED:                                                  22 HOLMES Look at this. If you play a chromatic scale, they move clockwise. As soon as you switch to a pentatonic scale --
 Really? What about when you -- oops --
That's your job, not mine.
You're Blackwood's last request. Says he has information he'll give only to you.
Look at that structure. What has it been? Five years' work already? Are you aware that is the first combination of bascule and suspension bridge. Very innovative.
Oh, I have your cut from last night, by the way. You weren't there so I laid your customary bet --
You're right... I'll keep it with your check book, locked safely away in my drawer.
The opera house is featuring Don Giovanni and I could easily procure two tickets if you had some cultural inclination this evening.
You have the grand gift of silence, Watson. It makes you quite invaluable as a companion.
And your grand gift is the uncanny ability to demoralize people. I was aware she'd been engaged. She told me. Holmes rubs his jaw.
So that's a `no' to the opera then?
That's my waistcoat.
It's too small for you.
Well, it's my property and I want it back. 
23   CONTINUED:                                              23 Holmes hands him the waistcoat which he promptly tosses out of the carriage window. Holmes frowns, looks out the opposite window.
You go ahead. I've no business with him while he's alive.
Where are all the other prisoners?
We had to move `em, sir, otherwise we were going to have a riot on our hands. There's something about him... it's like he can get inside your head.
I'm sure I can find my own way from here, if you have other duties to attend to.
Much obliged, sir. Thank you, thank you.
Holmes approaches Blackwood's cell, strolling insouciantly. No way this creep's getting to him. In the shadows he can barely make out Blackwood, who's reading aloud to himself. Holmes listens, getting closer. BLACKWOOD QUOTE from Revelations tbd...
Love what you've done with the place.
Thank you for joining me.
How can I help?
I'd already followed the murders with some interest and while my heart went out to the families of the victims, I couldn't but notice a criminal mastery in the stroke of your brush --
You're too kind.
However, by comparison, your work in the crypt was akin to a finger painting.
So now you're curious as to whether there's a larger game afoot, and that's why you're really here.
Actually, my friend will pronounce you dead shortly and I thought I might keep him company.
Allow me to enlighten you. Your mistake is to imagine that anything earthly has led to this moment. Your error in judgement is to assume I've been holding the brush at all -- I am merely the channel.
Those lives were a necessity, a sacrifice. Five otherwise meaningless creatures called to serve a greater purpose.
I wonder if they'd let Watson and I dissect your brain -- after you're hanged, of course. I'd wager there's some deformity that would be scientifically significant. Then you would serve a greater purpose, too.
Mr. Holmes, you must widen your gaze. I'm concerned you underestimate the gravity of coming events.  For you and I are bound on a journey that will twist the very fabric of nature.  I sense fragility beneath your mask of logic, and it worries me. Steel your mind, Holmes, I need you.
I must say, you've come a long way down from the House of Lords.
But I will rise again.
Bon voyage, Blackwood.
Pay attention! Three more shall die, and there is nothing you can do to save them. 
27   CONTINUED:                                                27 BLACKWOOD You must accept that this is beyond your control, or by the time you realize it was you that made it all possible it will be the last sane thought in your head.
What did he want?
Nothing.
Don't think you're needed, Father. Not for this one.
The room where the execution takes place is packed to the rafters with senior officials, members of the government and cops. We get a good look at some of the faces. Watson is there too. Blackwood walks up into the noose.
Death is only the beginning.
Holmes is out cold, lying on his tiger skin rug.
London's so bleak this time of year.
Not that I'm pining for New Jersey.
I prefer to travel in the winter.
I brought a few souvenirs. Dates from Jordan, tea from Ceylon and olives from Cyclades. I thought we'd have a little tea party to cheer us up.
I came across this as I was setting up.
Theft of Velasquez portrait from the King of Spain... Missing naval documents lead to resignation of Bulgarian Prime Minister... Scandalous affair ends engagement of Hapsburg Prince to Romanov Princess.
I don't see my name anywhere.
But your signature is clear.
Ah, the Maharajah's missing diamond. Another souvenir?
He has a palace full of them. Let's not dwell on the past.
By the looks of things you're between cases at the moment.
And you, husbands. No ring?
He snored. I'm Irene Adler again and I need your help to find someone. There's nobody more brilliant or who knows London better than you. Plus, it's a wonderful opportunity to see you again.
Why are you so suspicious?
Should I answer chronologically or alphabetically?
Who are you working for?
I'm my own man.
30   CONTINUED:                                              30 She stands and pulls out a large bag of coins.
Keep your money. I didn't say I'd take the case.
They gave me our old room.
Hello, John.
Irene sits, turns to address a man-shaped shadow filling the opposite corner of the carriage. Before she can speak, a gesture from the shadow stills her. This is PROFESSOR MORIARTY.
I assume he'll do it?
Not for money, but for me.   I wager he'll find our man within twenty-four hours.
You wager? 
33   CONTINUED:                                                    33 IRENE I'm certain.
A better word.     I sincerely hope it's accurate.
I --
Ow, me leg!
34   CONTINUED:                                                   34 COACH DRIVER Get out of it!
You run me over, sir, yes you did!
You fell right into the carriage!
A little charity would go a long way, yes it would, sir.
Look at you, I can't believe you ran after her like a schoolboy again. Leaping about, all aflutter. Are you a masochist?
Allow me to explain.
Don't you remember what she did to you? She turned you inside out, she made a proper idiot of you. I'm sorry, you were going to explain something...
Thank you, I --
I know, instead of just being tricked into being a witness at her wedding like last time --
I don't believe --
You dress up as clergyman and actually perform the ceremony. She'd love that.
You've had your fun.
What's she after, anyway?
Now it's time to press on.
Go on.    I won't interrupt.
It doesn't matter --
What could she possibly need? An alibi, a beard, a human canoe. She can sit on your back and paddle you up the Thames...
Regrettably, we've had our last case together. Those are my dates.
I've already read it. Luke Reordon, four foot ten, red hair, missing two front teeth.
Case solved! You're just not her type, Holmes. She likes ginger dwarfs.
Midget!
So you agree?
No, I don't agree. It's more than a technicality. You're misrepresenting the dimensions of foreshortened people.
I've upset you, I can tell.    I've said too much.
35     CONTINUED:                                               35 HOLMES No, I'm just saying, one has disproportionate limbs the other does not.
Alright.   What were you just doing?
Will you allow me to explain.
That's what I've been trying to do.
Why don't I see myself out.
Oh, how nice of you.
The man with the roses beckons Irene forward. Another man steps in behind her, trapping her. He closes in to grab her --
38B   CONTINUED:                                                  38B IRENE Oh, look, a wallet. Doesn't look like yours, does it? And -- naughty boy -- here's another one. I'll return them, shall I?
These are lovely, thank you.
Now, that's the Irene I know.
Holmes exits the alley, catches a glimpse of Irene through a STREET FAIR, which is being assembled.
This man intrigues me, Watson. He's got Adler on edge.
Which is no mean feat.
She's intimidated, scared...
And yet she works for him. That's bad money. It's nothing to do with me, but leave this case.
Well, I may not have a choice. A man has to make a living. After all, I'll be paying the rent entirely on my own.
You know what, I've had just about enough --
Clarky!
Mister Holmes, sir...?
Inspector Lestrade asks that you come with me, at once.
Us means you.
It's Lord Blackwood, sir. It appears he's come back from the dead.
Well that's clever seeing as how I pronounced him dead myself.
A groundsman saw him walking through the graves, just this morning.
I'll leave this one in your capable hands. I have tea with Mary and her parents this evening.
It is not my reputation at stake here.
Are you taking this seriously?
Like it or not, it's a matter of professional integrity. No girl wants to marry a doctor who can't tell if a man's dead or not.
Watson, you'd do well to hide your medical certificates in case they're revoked.
Look at this mess. Nothing but standard-issue police bootprints. Any possible evidence there might have been has been trampled.
42   CONTINUED:                                                   42 HOLMES Scotland Yard at their finest, once again.
Look at those slabs of marble -- they're half a ton each if they're a pound -- smashed outward like they were nothing.
Explain it if you can, Holmes.
And the coffin?
We're digging it up now. The witness is over there. You can question him if you like -- but you won't get much.
 If you lot don't stop behaving like a bunch of superstitious milk maids, you're on double-time! You're an embarrassment! Also, you're forbidden to talk about this to anyone, not a word. Are we bloody clear on that?
He's in shock.     We should give him a few moments.
The witness stated that he saw Lord Blackwood rise from the grave. (at Watson, accusingly) Well? You pronounced the man dead.
 He had no pulse. HOLMES Inspector, do you know if this is a spruce or a sycamore?
OPEN IT!!
That's not Blackwood.
Now that we have a firm grasp of the obvious...
Lividity is late stage. Diptera deposits are approximately --  -- three quarters of an inch, putting the time of death at ten to twelve hours ago.
Inspector, may I see your pen?
Missing two incisors in the upper jaw...  Adler's midget.
All yours, Inspector.
Scratches around the keyhole where the watch is wound. Most drunks are the same, and pawnbrokers scratch the ticket number and their initials inside the lid. This one has five, so the owner --
He was walking.
 He was walking but his feet didn't touch the ground. And I'm not daft, I know what I saw and I know Lord Blackwood. He was as alive as you or me. It's not right. It's not natural.  Our Father Who art in heaven... 
Now the game is afoot, Watson.
I fail to see how these fish and chips are different from the three other places we passed along the way.
Trust me. 
51   CONTINUED:                                                  51 WATSON Just eat.
You know, I've seen things in war that I couldn't explain. I once heard a man predict his death, down to the number and placement of the bullet holes that killed him. You have to admit that a supernatural explanation is at least theoretically possible.
Hmm... scratches around the keyhole, what does that tell you?
The owner was most likely a drunk. Each time he wound the watch his hand would slip, hence the scratches.
Very good, Watson! You've developed considerable powers of your own.
Let's see now, there are several sets of initials scored into the lid.
Pawnbroker's marks.
Excellent.
The most recent is M.H...
Maddison and Haig.
51   CONTINUED:                                                51 HOLMES Oh my Lord, here we are. They should give us an address.
There's one thing you've missed. On the watch.
I think not.
The time. Which leads me to deduce that I'm already late for my appointment with Mary. You remember, the one I was leaving for before you talked me into coming to dig up dead bodies with you.
Reckon your future, sir?
Perhaps we do need a little help from the beyond.
No, thank you.
You need to hear what I have to tell you.
I see two men, brothers. Not in blood but in bond. I see the letters S and an L, no... wait, a J.
51   CONTINUED:                                                51 PALM READER  I see madness. A man driven out of his mind by a malign force.
I see a letter... the letter M... another M... Mary? You will be married... I see... I see...  Patterned table clothes, china figurines, lace doilies...
You think you are clever don't you?
She turns to fat...
Enough.
 Do you have any changes?
This is a new low -- even for you.
Do you still have my cut from the fight?
Why, do you --
I seen something in his hand. Darkness and great pain. Mortal peril. Warn your friend, he's not safe.
Holmes and Watson move down the street, the pawnshop behind them. Now Watson is smiling, and Holmes is not. Watson is beaming at: an ENGAGEMENT RING in a box.
Not bad, eh?
Reordon's lodgings should be right around this bend. Here we are... 
52   CONTINUED:                                                  52 He slows, looks up at a dark, dingy LODGING HOUSE.   Some windows are boarded up.
Looks promising. And possibly dangerous. Oh, well, give my regards to Mary.
I can spare ten minutes.
The squalid doorway opens into a series of dark rooms. Watson lights a lamp which reveals details of an interior that stops them both in their tracks:
He clearly felt something was coming to get him.
Something did.
 Bloody hell...
 Ammonium sulfate.
 Phosphorous... Formaldehyde... Hemlock...
Appears he was attempting to follow occult formula with scientific practice.
Has he any hydrochloric acid?
Irene was here.
Why would she hire you to find him, if she planned to do the job herself?
Maybe it's not the man she's after, but something else. Something he was working on? WATSON Ferrocyanide. Sucks the iron right out of the ink. Long as it's not too burnt...
He worked for Blackwood.
There's one odor I can't put my finger on. Sweet, almost like perfume... or sugar....  Barley sugar.
Hello, gentlemen.
Sherlock Holmes.
Let me guess -- you're here to extinguish any connection between the man who lived here and the man you work for? Curious you'd still be running errands for a dead man.
 You do like to talk.
You take them, I'll handle Mr. Sweet tooth.
Seems about fair.
Dredger bears down on Holmes. Holmes reaches out for some kind of weapon, anything he can grab. He snatches a SHORT SHAFT. A truly pathetic weapon.
OMITTED
A police WHISTLE echoes through the air.   Dredger turns for a moment, just long enough for --
Holmes!
We see the chain extended taut as a tight-rope behind the half-launched ship.
EMPTY_LINE
I haven't slept all night. I deserve this... I clearly deserve it. How could I ever be so deluded as to believe I could meet Mary's parents for tea once I let myself be talked into going with you. Now of course I'm in jail.
 You're not implying that I am responsible for our current situation are you, Watson? We were set upon, man, it was self- defense.
I've used the time to review my notes on our exploits of the last seven months... and I've come to the conclusion that I must be suffering from to some profound psychological aberration.
You've never complained about my methods before.
I'm not complaining... I never complain... I never complain about your violin playing at three in the morning, your mess, your lack of hygiene, your stealing my clothes, your setting our home on fire!
That was an accident...
The first time WAS an accident...
Remember me, boys? Put me away for robbery a few years back?
Ah, Mr. Brownlee. The fifteenth most dangerous man in London.
Who could forget that face? I told you, a little nitrate of silver and the warts will be gone in two weeks. Now, if you'll excuse us!
67   CONTINUED:                                                67 WATSON  Nor am I complaining about the fact that you terrorize my patients and perform outlandish experiments on my dog.
Gladstone's my dog as well.   It's in the interest of science.
What I do take issue with is your ruthless campaign to sabotage my relationship with Mary.
Watson, I completely understand now. You're overtired and feeling a bit sensitive.
What you need is a rest. You and I could go out to the countryside. My brother Mycroft has a small estate near Chichester. It has marvelous grounds and a beautiful folly. We could throw a lamb on the spit.
If I were going to the country, I would be going with my future wife --
Certainly. We should have her along. Let's get Gladstone out of the house as well.
No, Holmes. Not you.   Me and her. You're not --
Invited? Now you're not making any sense, Watson. Why would I not be invited to my own brother's country home?
67   CONTINUED:                                                67 WATSON You're not human. You don't get it, do you? You are this... (touches his own head) ... without this.
John Watson?   You made bail.
Just Watson.
Lestrade heads toward the holding room, flanked by prison wardens.
Lestrade -- your usual impeccable timing.
You know, in another life, you'd have made an excellent criminal.
And you, sir, an excellent policeman.
Tell me you have answers.
All in good time.
We don't have time. I've an office full of policemen hanging crosses over their desks. A public that's working itself into a frenzy... Holmes sees a dark, strange carriage waiting, door open.
Who's this?
Try to behave yourself. They just paid a small fortune to bail you out.
Mr. Holmes, apologies for summoning you like this. I'm sure it's quite a mystery as to where you are, and who I am.
As to where I am -- I was, admittedly, lost for a moment between Charing Cross and Holborn. But I was saved by the bread shop on Saffron Hill, the only bakers to use a certain French glaze on their loaves. After that, the carriage forked left, then right, a bump over the Fleet conduit -- need I go on?
As to who you are -- that took every ounce of my not- inconsiderable experience and skill... the letters on your desk are addressed to Sir Thomas Rotheram, Lord Chief Justice. That would be your official title. Who you realy are is another matter entirely.
72   CONTINUED:                                                    72 HOLMES Judging by the sacred Ox on your ring, you're also the secret head of the Temple of the Four Orders -- in whose headquarters we now stand, on the northwest corner of St. James Square.  And as to the mystery -- the mystery is why you bothered to blindfold me in the first place.
Yes, well, it's standard procedure, I suppose.
I think we have the right man.
I suppose you already have some notion as to the -- practices of our Order?
Yes.   They're almost interesting.
Be as skeptical as you like -- but our secret systems have steered the world towards the greater good for centuries. The danger is that they can also be exploited for more nefarious purposes.
What some call the dark arts, or practical magic.
We know you're are a rationalist. We don't ask you to share our faith, only our fears.
Fear is the more infectious condition.  In this case, fear of your own child.
Blackwood is your son, yes? You have the same colored irises -- a rare dark green, with diamond- shaped hazel flecks -- 
Very few people are privy to that information, and we want to keep it that way.
He was conceived during one of our rituals. His mother wasn't my wife, but she shared our beliefs. She was a powerful practitioner. Though not enough to survive giving birth to him.
We were young. It was before we fully understood the powers we were dealing with.
Evidently.
Death followed him wherever he went, from his birth to arms he made and sold. What family he had tended to... not survive. No one could prove anything of course, but we all knew --
The boy was a curse. I didn't have the courage either to take him in or to -- 
We've done our best to stop him ourselves, but it's not enough.
His power grows daily and exponentially. His resurrection is evidence of that. What he does next will be far more dangerous --
-- he's going to raise a force that will alter the very course of our world. We need you to find him and stop him before he does.
We'll give you any assistance we can. As Home Secretary, I have considerable influence over the police.  Name your price.
One of the great benefits of my work is that I can pick and choose my clients. I'll get him, but not for you.
I have one last question, Sir Thomas.
What is it?
If the rest of his family's dead, why are you still alive?
OMITTED
If you're going to watch me take my clothes off, Sherlock, the least you can do is help me with the buttons.
To watch a lady undress without her permission is a criminal offense, Sherlock, and could get you into a lot of trouble...
So why don't you come over here and help me instead.
That's better.
You can stop looking for Reardon.
I knew I could count on you. 
Wonderful. Case closed then. Your services are no longer required.
I can't help wondering if your employer will be as content with these results? You were uncharacteristically ill at ease in his presence. Your hand was trembling, your gaze was averted. I couldn't see his face, but I spotted chalk on his lapel. A professor perhaps?
 The eye patch was a nice touch.
But I've never known a professor to carry a gun, and on such a clever contraption.
Let's not argue.
We're not.
Tell me who you're working for and what he's after.
That's nobody's business but my own.
75   CONTINUED:                                                 75 HOLMES I disagree.
You see, we are arguing.
When a man you ask me to find ends up dead in the coffin of the most notorious murderer since Jack the Ripper and that murderer manages to return from the dead, not only is it my business, it's the business of Scotland Yard and the highest levels of the British government. They will certainly consider your reticence to be an obstruction of justice. Which in relation to a crime of this magnitude would certainly mean prison time.
This wine is excellent.    You should really try some.
So what's it to be?
Do we really have to decide now?
You're in over your head this time, Irene.
Much better.
This is the only way it could ever work between us, Sherlock -- one in shackles, the other with the key.
I've NEVER been in over my head.
How can you live like this -- always a fugitive.
But free. And on my own terms. Just like you -- well, not you at this exact moment --
-- but generally speaking.
If anyone asks, please let them know that Mr. O'Neil didn't have time to check out.  I hope you don't mind settling the bill.
What were you doing consorting with a married business traveller in his hotel room is something you'll have to explain for yourself.
Where's Watson when you need him?
OMITTED
Good evening, sir. Some figs and honey with a nice glass of port? I've prepared a tray.
No thank you, Perigrine, I'm going to bed. (as he heads upstairs) You won't let those figs go to waste, will you?
76   CONTINUED:                                                     76 PERIGRINE Nor the port, sir.
You can't fight it. It comes from a power greater than yours. You can only surrender.
I've been imagining this moment for a long time...
... I must admit, it's better than I thought it would be.
Carrying an armful of laundry, a MAID slips a pass-key into a lock and opens the door...
Don't take this the wrong way, but might I borrow your hand?
Chambermaids were once such a liberal breed. Besides, she misinterpreted my intention entirely. 
Faith runs riot over reason.
Well, it's a good thing she was offended or we'd never have found you. The inspector's been over to Baker Street himself this morning.
Holmes steps out of the coach, and is escorted inside by Constable Clark.
We've checked everything. No sign of a break-in. The Butler didn't hear anything. The body was in the tub, eyes wide open -- -- so that Const. Clark ends up talking to thin air.
 -- only his ring was missing.
78C   CONTINUED:                                                78C HOLMES Why did you drain the water?
Out of common decency.
 Crime is common, logic is rare. The decent thing to do is catch the killer, not provide comfort to the corpse.
Hmm...
What is that?
 Uhhhh... jasmine?
Superb. I suspect this comes from a larger cannister. It'll either be in the pantry, high up where it's warm and dry, or in a linen closet with a vent. And, Constable, you could check the ground under the rear windows for any footprints not your own.
Data, data, data! I cannot make bricks without clay!
78C   CONTINUED:                                               78C His eyes keep moving, noticing something on a wall. He steps toward it, runs his hand along a layer of dust. The dust has a line down it, as if the wall cracked open.
-- Const. Clark and the Officer return, the Officer proudly hugging a 5 LB. CANNISTER OF JASMINE BATH SALTS.
 I have no    idea what to make of that.  Excellent    work.
80   CONTINUED:                                                 80 HOLMES Don't forget the wallpaper.
There isn't any.
Figure of speech.
Since this room is no longer in use, do you mind if I employ it?
Be my guest.
Bring him in, boys.
My new roommate. He's an inspiring conversationalist. (alt: He has more humor than you.)
Really.
No, he's your friend from Reordon's. He didn't survive Dredger landing on him. Poor fellow. But there is some consolation in the knowledge that he can still be of service to his fellow men.
Though none of it human.
A butcher perhaps...?   What else?
Hm -- predominantly yellow flame, but with distinct green bursts. Sulfurous. He spent lots of time around industrial work and very little around a wash basin.
Coal... river silt...
That plus the river silt and industrial slag on his trousers puts him squarely in...
Nine Elms.
Well done. Now, you didn't happen to pack the Lord's Register of members' interests, did you?
80   CONTINUED:                                               80 HOLMES See what Blackwood admits to owning.
It's endless, he's had a hand in just about everything that's not good for you.
Woolwich Arsenal... Limehouse Chemical... Queenshithe Slaughterhouse, Nine Elms!
That's it, Watson! This should lead us right to Blackwood.
Not us, you.
Right. Well uh... best of luck with everything, then.
Same to you.
Not again.
Yes, I know. Don't give me that look, Gladstone.
OMITTED
What's the meaning of this?   Why did you call us here?
Sir Thomas is dead. Effective immediately, I nominate Lord Blackwood as head of the Order.
Are you mad, Coward? Have you any idea what he's capable of?
Of course he does. It's why he's here.
I am humbled. I am honored.  My powers and my assets -- munitions, shipping, industry -- they were given to me for a purpose. 
You've made policy in secret for centuries. Now, you'll make it openly.
The first act is a necessary one, for without death there can be no rebirth...  ... at noon tomorrow, we will take the first step towards a new chapter in history.  England will know our power. Then, the whole world will. Across the Atlantic lies a colony that was once ours, and will be again. Their civil war weakened them; their government is as corrupt and ineffective as ours. We'll take it from them.  With their resources and our power, we'll remake the world, we'll create the future.  Are you with me?
No, sir, we are not! (turning to the others) The powers he's playing with are beyond any man's control.
They're limitless -- even death holds no sway.
Help me stop him before it's too late.
83    CONTINUED:                                                  83 In desperation, Standish pulls a gun.   But as he aims it at Blackwood -
I wouldn't do that.
Blackwood turns away from the window, surveys them.     They are terrified, but they are with him.
Come, drink your allegiance here.
Everything all right, Captain Tanner?
Just a little leak, nothing to worry about.
Not a great one for the water, are you, doctor? Army type, aren't you? You wouldn't have lasted long in the Navy.
That's as far as we can go.
There must be fifty yards of mud out there.
I know precisely how much money is in there.
 I am sure you do, doctor.
OMITTED
HOLMES What are you doing with my gun?
Oh, please.
It was an honest mistake --
There was nothing honest about it.
Come on, let's get this over with.
The one on the left seems more attentive, might prove easily distracted. The big one's been drinking -- whether for courage or from habit... Watson?
OMITTED
They cleared something out of here, not minutes ago...
Holmes.   You need to see this.
One-eighteen.    It's a date, a time?
It's chapter and verse. Revelation 1:18. `I am He that liveth, and was dead.'
`And behold, I am alive forevermore, and have the keys of hell and of death. Amen.'
BLACKWOOD I cautioned you to accept that this is beyond your control. Now you see the truth for yourself.
I want you to bear witness. At noon tomorrow, the world as you know it ends.
 She followed you. You led your little lamb straight to slaughter.
Holmes drops on to the machine and leaps from gear to gear like stepping-stones. He heaves himself up to the conveyor, where Irene is being pulled down the assembly line towards the flames.
It's your turn in shackles this time.
I've been meaning to ask you something --
Well, I'm a captive audience.
 You had a question.
 Ah. Yes. Do you still maintain you're not in over your head?
 In some countries steam is considered excellent therapy for the skin.
 I have to say -- it's overrated.
Sherlock?
90A   CONTINUED:                                              90A Gets a free haircut.
Thank you so much. I owe you.
You owe me information.  No more games, Irene.
Blackwood's manufactured large- scale weapons for years. Lately there've been rumors of something new. More powerful than anything else. And... magical. My job is to find out if the rumors are true. 
Watson!
Holmes...
WAATTTSSSSSONNN!!!!
There's an order for your arrest all the way from the top, sir -- so you'll have to hit me now.
From Lord Coward?
Yes, sir, so make it look good.
Thank you, Clarky.
Two POLICEMEN half-heartedly guard the end of a corridor. One reads the paper. The headline: "AMERICAN AMBASSADOR STANDISH BURNED ALIVE!"
93   CONTINUED:                                                  93 Watson is burned, cut, bruised, scraped, pock-marked with shrapnel. He mumbles inaudibly, his eyes still closed. He's delirious, sweating.
What are you administering?
Morphia. A sixth of a grain, for the pain.
There are four pieces of shrapnel. The surgeon should be along shortly.
Are they subcutaneous, or deeper?
They're near the carotid artery.
Get a mirror, I'll extract them myself.
I can't authorize that, Doctor. We must first manage the pain and combat the infection.
I haven't time for that.   My friend is in dire --
Your friend? What kind of friend takes a retired soldier, who's served his country and deserves a peaceful, private life, and puts him so directly in harm's --
93   CONTINUED:                                                 93 WATSON The best and wisest man I've ever known.
But evidently not wise enough to value your life over his misadventures.
 It was worth a wound, worth many wounds...
Excuse me --
 I have other... patients.
Do you really?     Doctor.
You have nothing more to say to me?
Um... I'll check in on him again shortly.
Is that the best you can do? I'm disappointed, but not surprised.
If anything happens to him, both our lives are lost. Do you understand that? Can you? --
93   CONTINUED:                                               93 The Doctor can't face her anger any longer, turns, leaves fast.
-- or are you so selfish that's just not possible.
95   CONTINUED:                                                    95 Then he begins to chant. The words are eerily reminiscent of Blackwood's chanting.
And now it dawns on you, you begin to recognize your part in his play.
You see the path he chose for you.
Unless I simply wanted to be caught by the great Sherlock Holmes...
... so I could die on the biggest stage of all. You made me what I am.
 Watson...?
Interesting artwork.   You look bloody awful.
What about the shrapnel in your arm?
Took it out myself. Mary said I had a lousy doctor.
 She brought you here?
Yes, oddly, it seems she might understand the power of partnership.
Thank you. You know, I dreamt that you were strangling me.
I was... I had to get you to pass out to settle down.
What time is it?
It's half past nine.
Excellent brew, but I believe my head requires something a bit stronger to clear the --
I brought you this...
Exactly.
Oh, I poisoned that one.
With your own venom no doubt.
Better a snake than a lap dog.
There's a new field in the treatment of abnormal personalities -- it's called psychology. It appears you're what's considered a para-neurotic deviant with anti-social proclivities. Quite severe. And untreatable.
No, doctor, I'm simply a woman.  
99    CONTINUED:                                                  99 IRENE Understand that, and you'll have a happy marriage.
 Not quite, doctor. Let me make it simple for you, with a lot fewer words -- I'm what's called a woman.  Understand that, and you'll have a happy marriage.
The music stops. Irene and Watson notice the silence. They swap a glance. A beat. And Holmes emerges.
I need a map of London.
Now that you're sitting comfortably, I shall begin. My initial approach was far too narrow. When Blackwood invited me to Pentonville prison, he suggested I widen my gaze and, at minimum, I have done just that. In fact, I may well have reconciled thousands of years of theological disparity. But that's for another time. Blackwood's method is based on a ritualistic mystical system that has been employed by The Temple of the Four Orders for centuries. To fully understand this system, to get inside it, I re-enacted the ceremony we interrupted in the crypt... with a few enhancements of my own.
At minimum.
My journey took me somewhat further down the rabbit hole than I had intended.
Yes, your little white tail got rather dirty.
But I have emerged enlightened... The fraternity who silently control the Empire, share the belief with the Kings, Pharoahs, and Emperors of old that the Sphinx was a door to another dimension, a gateway to immeasurable power --
It is made up of four parts: The Ox, the Lion, the Eagle, and Man -- 
102   CONTINUED:                                                 102 He points out the individual parts of the Sphinx, covering other parts with his hand. We see the Ox body, Lion paws, Eagle wings, Man's face.
In Sir Thomas' secret chamber I found the bone of an ox, the tooth of a lion, the feather of an eagle, the hair of a man. Map!
Now, it is a widely held belief that within the architecture of the great cities are coded references to this system.
Since he rose from the grave, Blackwood has killed three men. Each murder was committed at a location that has a direct connection with the Temple, therefore the System.  Reordon, the ginger midget, represents Man. We found his body here...
Then Sir Thomas, Master of the Temple, wore the ox ring... he died here...
102   CONTINUED:                                               102 HOLMES Standish was Ambassador to America, where the Eagle has been the national emblem for over a hundred years -- and not by coincidence.
The headquarters of Temple of the Four Orders where he died is here...
Man, Ox, Eagle...
And last on the list:    the Lion. Holmes scribbles on a piece of paper. Watson and Irene step closer looking at the lion's fang and then the map...
Correspondingly, the map will tell us the location of Blackwood's final act. Right here.
Parliament.
What is the meaning of this circle?
It is the fifth element -- the ethereal. That which can't yet be known.
Police.
Ladies first.
Follow these plans.
Holmes races down the hall toward the back door, but the door EXPLODES inward. Police fill the hall. Holmes looks back, where more police block his path. He simply raises his arms, and they drag him away.
Lestrade?
Begging your pardon, m'lord, I know it's unorthodox, but Mr. Holmes has been making serious accusations about you and the order, sir.
Oh, that solves the great mystery as to how you became inspector.
I have five minutes before my next engagement, why don't you regale me with your stories of conspiracies. Thank you, Lestrade, if you could wait outside.
Nonetheless, I confess to being completely out-matched. I could deduce very little from my investigation.
Fortunately, there is nothing more stimulating than a case where everything goes against you. How many members of parliament do you intend to murder at noon today?  Man, ox, eagle, lion -- the lion is parliament, isn't it?
Very clever. But it's not murder, Mr. Holmes. It's mercy. We are giving the weak masses a strong shepherd. Don't you see it's for their own good?
No, but I don't care much what you think. I simply wanted to know the location of Blackwood's final ceremony, and now you have given it to me.
I have told you nothing.
A touch of red stock brick dust on your knee, from where you've been kneeling...
A small bandage on your thumb from where you've been vowing...
A faint aroma of excrement, from where you have been standing.
It's a shame you made an enemy out of Blackwood, Holmes, you would have made a valuable ally. The powers at our disposal are far greater than you can imagine.
You and Blackwood laid the final touches to your ceremony in the sewers beneath parliament less than an hour ago.  
106   CONTINUED:                                                106 HOLMES Both Houses met today. The entire government will be present.
How terrible is wisdom, Holmes, when it brings no profit to the wise.  We take power at noon.
Well there's no time to waste then, is there?
SPLASH! Holmes dives into the river handcuffed. He disappears for a moment then surfaces, looks about in the water. A moment of concern until we hear the familiar "chug" of a struggling engine.
 I told you he'd be coming out the top window, soldier boy. No way he'd be coming over the terrace.
How was Lestrade?
Performed his role perfectly.   A little too perfectly, come to think of it.
Well, your instructions were fairly precise... about everything except the window.
Where to, Sherlock?
Port side, Captain Tanner, into the sewers.
Watson, did you bring my clothes?
Starting early, aren't we?
Trust me, have a drink.
What are we doing in the sewers?
Patience, Doctor. I am about to show you...
Expensive carriages fill the courtyard. The entire government is here. We see familiar faces from the Temple of Four Orders, heading into this epic building.
Far as I can go.
Behold, Blackwood's magic.
A chemical weapon. The first of its kind. Cyanide, to be precise.
You can tell that from here?
No.   I can tell it from here. He pulls something out of his pocket:    the RAT TAIL.
I snipped this off a rather recumbent rat at the slaughterhouse. Note the blue discoloration, the faint smell of bitter almonds. Tell-tale signs of cyanide.
That shaft leads directly to Parliament. When activated, those electrodes on either side will send a charge converting the cyanide powder into a gas.
All of the people inside that building --
Will be dead at the strike of noon. 
OMITTED
Seven minutes to twelve...
I wouldn't.
I'll keep these under wraps.
Over there.
I've never seen anything like it.
There's never been anything like it. A totally wire-free weapon. He must have some kind of remote device sending a signal to the receiver. Really quite --
 Keep at it.
Look.
The chime echoes. Dredger charges towards the device and Irene. Holmes flies into him feet-first, deflecting him for a moment.
You owe me for the ring.
Give me your gun. The bullets, I need the bullets.
Holmes rips the stem off his pipe, places the open end of the bowl against the bolt holding the cylinders in place. Shaped charge, Victorian-style.
We need a light, a match --
Got it... Which is when a blood-maddened Dredger thunders into them both, arms wide, driving Holmes and Irene away from the device --
 Three.
Hey!
Two!
OMITTED
EMPTY_LINE
I am the fourth horseman.
I am the pale rider.
And my name to you is death.
ZZZZP! The electrical charge zaps through the device, electrodes sizzle, sending blinding sparks through the cradle.
OMITTED
That was something new for us.
Yes... it was.
Watson --
I'm pretty sure I heard the last chime.
Yes, we made it. Just.
Come on, you've got to admit, you're going to miss this.
Which part? The stench of the sewers or the broken bones?  My ankle's done.
Where's Irene?
Holmes, I'm sorry...
Make sure Lestrade keeps it intact.
Blackwood flashes downward through the ornate official understory of the Houses, heads for a staircase spiralling even further down.
Panting, Irene runs along a tunnel that steps lower --
Irene emerges at the base of a dark, hollow building full of construction equipment, and sees, yes --
Woman! Sherlock appears behind her, winded.
It's bad manners to leave without at least saying `goodbye.'
Goodbye!
You of all people know I will pull this trigger.
Why hurry off, give it a try.
You're better off without her, Holmes!
I planned to kill a handful of senile old men to make this empire strong... but now because of you thousands are going to die.
All I have to do is break this cylinder. The wind will do the rest. And you'll be the first.
119H   CONTINUED:                                             119H Blackwood is DRAGGED down the walkway by the weight of the falling plank, pulled toward the edge.
There was never any magic.   Only conjuring tricks.
The simplest involved paying people off, like the prison guard...
 Arranging for your father to drown in his own bathtub required more modern science. Very clever of Reordon to find a paralytic that was activated by the combination of copper and water and was therefore undetectable once the bath water was drained.  
119H   CONTINUED:                                            119H HOLMES That might have been quite challenging had he not also tested it on some unfortunate amphibians. (Standish in rain/ pulling the trigger/ wharf explosion) The death of Standish was a real mystery, until you used the same compound to blow up the wharf. An odorless, tasteless, flammable liquid -- yet it burned with an unusual pinkish hue. Did Standish mistake it for rain as he entered your Temple? All it took was a spark. A simple rigged bullet in his gun. Ingenious. (Parliament/flask/ ceremony, dev ice) Like all great performers you saved your piece de resistance for the end. Had it worked, your followers in Parliament would have watched unharmed as their colleagues were dying around them. They didn't know that you had given them the antidote -- at one of your ceremonies I suspect. Instead, they would have believed it was magic and that you harnessed the ultimate power.
You hated your father and the other members of the Temple of the Four Orders for what they did to you. How satisfying it must have been to use their own system against them.
Cut me loose, Holmes!
You better hope that it's nothing more than superstition as you performed all the rituals perfectly.
We'll see about that shall we. It's a long journey from here to the rope.
We'll see about that shall we.
Oh, Irene...
119H   CONTINUED:                                              119H Her eyes pop open.
It looks like rain.
We've still got a moment.
You were right, he is a professor. Moriarty. Key's in the watch pocket.
You'll miss me, Sherlock.
Sadly, yes.
It'll be a hell of a trick if Blackwood comes back from this one.
Thank you, Lestrade.
Now you're going to be even more arrogant and insufferable than ever.
You're welcome, detective.  Is the woman up there?
She won't be by the time your boys get there.
122A   CONTINUED:                                                122A A shadow is waiting for him. We recognize the figure of WATSON. Holmes can't help but smile. He joins Watson, no words spoken.
One moment.
Please make sure this one is put on the desk in the front room.
What's in all those notebooks?
Nothing really... Just a few scribbles... cases we've worked on over the years.
All your adventures... I'd love to read them sometime.
As Watson and Mary climb the stairs, it becomes clear that Mary now wears IRENE'S DIAMOND on her finger. Holmes had it made into an engagement ring. WATSON I still can't believe he's given us that ring.
Do you think he's finally come to terms with you leaving?
Of course.    No question about it --
123B   CONTINUED:                                               123B WATSON Don't panic, dear.
Suicide is not in his repetoire, he's far too fond of himself.
Good afternoon. I was trying to deduce the manner in which Blackwood survived his execution. Clearing your good name, as it were. But it had a surprisingly soporific effect and I was carried off in the arms of Morpheus, like a caterpillar in a cocoon.
Get on with it, Holmes.
Cleverly concealed in the hangman's knot was a hook -- I believe my legs have fallen asleep. I should probably come down.
Shouldn't you help him, John?
I hate to stop when he's on a roll. Do carry on, Holmes.
The executioner attached it to a harness, thus allowing the weight to be distributed around the waist and the neck to remain intact. My lord, I can't feel my cheeks. Might we continue this at ground level?
How did you manage it, Holmes?
Worse things could happen.
John.
But none of this explains the lack of a pulse.
There is a toxin refined from the nectar of the rhododendron ponticum. It is quite infamous in the region of Turkey bordering the Black Sea for its ability to induce an apparently mortal paralysis. Enough to mislead a medical mind even as tenacious and well-trained as your own. It is known locally as --
What's wrong with Gladstone?
-- mad honey disease.
He is demonstrating the very effect I've just described. He doesn't mind.
His heart should be ticking in no time.
Mr. Holmes... Inspector Lestrade asks that you come with me, right away.
What is it this time, Clarky?
It's one of our sergeants, sir. He went missing in the sewers, the day you stopped Lord Blackwood... Well, a maintenance man found his body this morning. We believe the sergeant was our first man on the scene. Shot in the head.
Were there powder burns on his eyebrows?
Yes.
Point blank range.
With small caliber bullet.
Indeed.
Moriarty.
There's a brave boy... There, there, everything's going to be all right.
Where is Blackwood's device now?
123B   CONTINUED:                                               123B CONSTABLE CLARK The secret service has it, sir. They've taken over the case.
I'd wager there's a piece missing.
So you're saying Moriarty was after a part of the machine and not the poison.
The wire-free invention was the game all along. Imagine being able to control any device simply by sending a command via radio waves.
Adler was just a diversion.
 I've loaded the last of your boxes, sir.
Well...
I'll leave with you.   Clarky, case reopened.
OMITTED
We believe Sergeant Smith was the first officer there.
Oi, what you doing?
Shot in the head.
Were there powder burns on his eyebrows?
He was shot at point-blank range.
There's a brave boy... There, there, everything's going to be all right.
Where is Blackwood's device now?
The secret service has it, sir. They've taken over the case.
I'd wager there's a piece missing.
Wager, Watson... I thought those days were behind you. Excellent deduction, however.
126   CONTINUED:                                                  126 WATSON Moriarty was after the machine not the poison.
Blackwood's wire-free invention was the game all along. It is undoubtedly the more dangerous and the more valuable of the two...  Irene was just a diversion.
 I've loaded the last of your boxes, sir.
Well...
I'll walk out with you...
An honor working with you, Doctor.
Take care of yourself, Holmes.
Try not to be too late for dinner with my parents and... be careful.
Magnificent woman, Watson. Magnificent!
