Is anything gone? OUISA opens the front closet with trepidation. But nothing leaps out. SHE sees a mink is still there..
How can I look? I'm shaking.
My god! The Kandinsky! 0UISA runs into the living room. SHE can see by the discoloration on that wall that a painting is missing.
It's gone! Call the police!
There it is! An early abstract painting by Kandinsky leans against a Philadelphia Chippendale chair: the painting is wild and brilliantly colored.
Thank god! SHE picks the painting up and flips it around. It's a double sided painting. The artist, Kandinsky, had painted in different styles on either side of the canvas.
A computer. Calendars. File cabinets. Bulletin boards with prints of paintings tacked on. FLAN checks - the slide projector is there. FLAN opens and closes cabinet drawers. OUISA appears in the doorway of the office.
We could've been killed.
Don't say that. The silver Victorian inkwell! FLAN runs past OUISA down the hall back to the living room. OUISA follows HIM back into
How can you think of things? We could have been murdered.
I want to know if anything's gone? HE picks up an ornate Victorian inkwell capped by a silver beaver and looks at it with great objectivity..
There's the inkwell. Silver beaver. Why? OUISA, drained, looks out the window down onto Central Park.
Slashed ---our throats slashed. Go to bed at night happy and then murdered. Would we have-woken up? OUISA screams.
We have to go to the wedding.
I am in no mood to go to any wedding.
We have to
They're your friends
I beg to differ. They're Your fr - FLAN stops, frightened suddenly, listening.
Hello? OUISA runs to HIM, terrified. HE holds HER.
You don't call out Hello unless-- THEY walk softly to the dark hall.
I think we could tell if someone else was here.
We didn't all night. THEY look down the silent dark hall.
A YOUNG BLACK MAN whose name is PAUL comes into frame and leans against this white wall. Right off, you say this YOUNG MAN is a winner. PAUL frowns, then smiles. Right into the camera.
Their car is waiting - a Mercedes - FLAN slips the attendant a bill. FLAN gets in the driver's seat. OUISA gets in the passenger seat. FLAN I'm shaking.
Then I'll drive.
I have to hang on.
Let's just get there
Bottle of beer. Bottle of beer. Bottle of beer. AN UNSEEN YOUNG MAN OFF CAMERA speaks - elegant phrasing.
Bottle of beer.
Bottle- of beer.
Very good. You owe me. PAUL takes off his shirt. HE's strongly built. HE throws
Be care - ! A CAR veers by. FLAN swerves his car.
Let me drive!
Driving calms me!
When you're in one of these moods you do not drive well and I do not want to be killed today.
We could have been killed last night.
Stop saying that!
I'm driving slowly. See. Slowly.
I went in the room first. FLAN looks for signs.
Where's the goddam turnoff onto the Taconic? A truck veers and almost hits them.
You didn't see what I saw! FLAN puts on brakes.
It's that fucking Maria Callas! Turn that damn thing off!
It's not Maria Callas. It's that truck and you.
And last night. THE COUNTRYSIDE speeds by.
Happy is the bride the sun shines on
You look horrible!
No no! Could've been killed. All fine!
What?
Wonderful wedding. Wonderful day. THEY run into
This.perfect country chapel with a dozen or so rows of pews is bedecked with flowers and lit by candles. A STRING QUARTET at the side of the little altar plays Dvorak's American Quartet. THE USHER in morning clothes, greets FLAN and OUISA and shows them to their pew.
Bride's side? Groom's side.
Either side. I can't even remember how we met them. Why are we here? THEY walk down the aisle, heads down.
Do not make a scene. THEY kneel.
Now I lay me down to sleep - the most terrifying words  just think of it -
I pray the Lord my soul to keep-
The nightmare part - If I should die before I wake -
If I should die - I pray the Lord my soul to take - COUPLE IN THE PEW IN FRONT turn. A MAN, A WOMAN, strangely not unlike FLAN and OUISA, perhaps A few years older, perhaps more nautical as if they'd flown a in from Nantucket, are named SANDY and CONNIE.
Is anything wrong?
We were almost murdered
THE PEOPLE in the pew in front gasp. FLAN and OUISA are serious. THE QUARTET plays The Wedding March. EVERYONE stands. THE BRIDE and her FATHER walk down the aisle. CU OUISA'S FACE lost in thought. Bright vivid colors fill the screen. Later we will learn they are from a double-sided painting by Kandinsky, which
OUISA'S face appears briefly, smiling, then is replaced by dark, geometric patterns. The other side of the painting. It is lowered to reveal OUISA very serious.
Control.  Chaos.  Control.
Is everything all FLAN snaps out of it, putting on his party smile.
We always get this way at weddings. THE BRIDE and GROOM resume their run up the aisle. It's FLAN and OUISA's turn to leave the pew and go up the aisle. SHE is stricken.
I do not always get this way at weddings.
We're alive. THEY walk up the aisle into the foyer of the chapel. SHE puts her head into his shoulder.
Oh, it was awful awful awful awful. Then OUISA and FLAN put on their best smiles as THEY pass through a receiving line, finally shaking hands with the
Yes! Only hours ago!
But we're here!
Wouldn't miss it! THE BRIDE and GROOM look after THEM.
We hate to pry -
No no. You're not prying
But what happened -
This is our friend Julia
Do we know each other?
Oh yes through...
Of course. Haven't seen them in years FLAN shakes hands with the new acquaintance.
We're worried for you FLAN and OUISA look at each other.
Tell them! SANDY and CONNIE and JULIA sit down at the small table.
We were having a wonderful evening last night.
A friend we hadn't seen for many years came by for dinner. I don't think you know him -
Geoffrey Miller. From South Africa--
Don't say it so portentously.
Geoffrey from South Africa.
Don't be ga-ga.  Something large.
I didn't know Geoffrey was in town.
I saw him at Susie Baxter's
I wasn't at Susie Baxter's
Sandy forgets he was married to Susie Baxter. THE WAITER goes.
That's no reason why she can't invite me to a party. CONNIE whispers to JULIA, her eyes on FLAN.
He's an art dealer. JULIA nods now that's she's remembered. FLAN Private sales. Purchases. OUISA leans forward. Somehow the telling calms HER. THE CHUMS lean forward.
We knew Geoffrey
through our children when Geoffrey and his family all lived in New York.
They've moved back to South Africa.
He was here in New York briefly on business and asked us to ask him for dinner.
He's King Midas rich. Literally. Gold mines. THE WAITER puts down the tray of drinks.
Seventy thousand workers in just one gold mine.
But he is always short of cash because his government won't let its people --
Its white people --
-- its white people take out any money. So it's like taking in a War Baby.
When he called it was like a bolt from the blue as I had a deal coming up and was short by
FLAN puts down his drink.
The figure is superfluous OUISA turns to CONNIE.
I hate when he uses the word "superfluous". I mean, we needed two million and we hadn't seen Geoffrey in a long time and while Geoffrey might not have the price of a dinner he easily might have two million dollars.
The currents last night were very churny.
we weren't sucking up. We like Geoffrey.
It's that awful thing of having truly rich folk for friends.
Face it. The money does get in the -
Only if you let it. The fact of the money shouldn't get in-
Having a rich friend is like drowning and your friend makes life boats. But the friend gets very touchy if you say one word: life boat.  Well, that's two words. We were afraid our South African friend might say "You only love me for my. life boats?" But we like Geoffrey.
I know who he is now.
Lovely man.
Didn't he invite us to visit him?
It wasn't a life-threatening evening.
Rich people can do something for you even if you're not sure what it is`you want them to do. THEY turn at the sound of applause. THE BRIDE and GROOM have entered the Country Club and our table in the bar looks up as THE WEDDING PARTY passes by for a moment rushing past the Bar into the ballroom. Off in the ballroom THE SMALL ORCHESTRA strikes up "Just One Of Those Things" for the ten thousandth time. EVERYONE in the club is applauding and OUR TABLE applauds too. OUISA starts to rise.
Should we?
Not on your life. CONNIE pulls OUISA back down to the table.
Hardly a Life Boat evening - OUISA sits, enjoying this.
Portentous.
But when Geoffrey called and asked us to take him for dinner, he made a sudden pattern in life's little tea leaves because who wants to go to banks? FLAN'S VOICE takes us back to last night
Geoffrey called and our tempests settled into showers and life was manageable. What more can you want?
Listen. OUISA stops doing what she's doing which is rolling out a drink trolley with little hors d'oeuvres on plates. FLAN stops doing what he's doing which is checking that a slide projector is in place on the desk along side the silver beaver inkwell. FLAN and OUISA both tense.
What's wrong?
It always amazes me when New York is so quiet. OUISA and FLAN relax and laugh.
With the kids away, we get used to a lower noise quotient. FLAN pours a drink for GEOFFREY.
Geoffrey, you have to move out of South Africa. You'll be killed. Why do you stay in South Africa?
One has to stay there to educate the black workers and we'll know we've been successful when they kill us.
Planning the revolution that will destroy you.
Putting your life on the line.
You don't think of it like that. I wish you'd come visit. OUISA takes her drink and strokes the ears of her dog.
But we'd visit you and sit in your gorgeous house planning trips into the townships demanding to see the poorest of the poor. "Are you sure they're the worst off? I mean, we've come all this way. We don't want to see people just mildly victimized by apartheid. We demand shock." It doesn't seem right sitting on the East Side talking about revolution.
Only small murky cafes for Pepe le Noko here.
No. La Passionaria. I will come to South Africa and build barricades and lean against them, singing.
And the people would follow.
"Follow Follow Follow". What's that song?
The way Gorbachev cheered on the striking coal miners in the Ukraine - yes, you must strike- it is your role in history to dismantle this system. Russia and Poland - you can't believe the developments in the world -  "Follow Follow Follow".
China. FLAN and OUISA Oh.
Oy vay China. As my grandmother would say. Our role in history. And we offer ourselves up
That is your role in history. Not our role. OUISA ponders this thought.
A role in history. To say that so easily. GEOFFREY suddenly gets up and looks through the telescope by the window.
GEOFFREY flashes down nine floors into Central Park. HE frowns in puzzlement when HE sees
Do you want another drink before we--
Wonderful view.
The phrase - striking coal miners - I see all these very striking coal miners modelling the fall fashions.
Where should we?
There's good Szechuan. And Hunan.
The sign painter screwed up the sign. Instead of The Hunan Wok, he painted The Human Wok.
God! The restaurants! New York has become the Florence of the Sixteenth Century. Genius on every corner.
I don't think genius has kissed the Human Wok. THEY finish off their drinks.
The new Italian looked cheery. FLAN and OUISA Good.
We made reservations. FLAN looks at the slide projector.
Geoffrey, I'd like to show - FLAN'S sentence hangs in mid-air as GEOFFREY follows OUISA
OUISA burrows in the closet getting her coat and GEOFFREY's coat out of the hall closet stuffed with tennis rackets and skis and boots.
This restaurant - they wrap ravioli up like salt water taffy. FLAN appears behind HER to help HER. THEY both wrestle the coats out of the closet.
Six on a plate for a few hundred dollars. And FLAN gets the coats. A clatter of tennis rackets falling. GEOFFREY takes his topcoat.
You have to come to South Africa so I can pay you back. I'll take you on my plane into the Okavango Swamps -
Did you hear - to take back to Johannesburg. out in Eastharpton
a guy goes into one of the better food stores -
Dean and DeLuca - FLAN helps OUISA on with her coat.
one of the Dean and DeLuca look alikes. Gets a pack of cigarettes and an ice cream bar. Goes up front. Sees there's a line at the register. Slaps down two twenty dollar bills and goes out. GEOFFREY doesn't get the anecdote.
We sent it to the Times. GEOFFREY smiles politely. FLAN and OUISA press a little bit too hard.
They have the joke page of things around New York.
They send you a bottle of champagne. THEY all laugh brightly.
We weren't auditioning but I kept thinking Two Million dollars Two Million dollars.
It's like when people say -Don't think about elephants' and all you can think about is elephants elephants elephants.
Two million dollars Two million dollars.
What ever you do, don't think about elephants.
Elephants? FLAN rapidly steers GEOFFREY to a chair, closes the living room door, then wheels a projector with a carousel tray into place.
Louisa is a dada manifesto. About the Cezanne - unless we're careful, it'll be sold and never seen again - FLAN switches off the room's lights and clicks on the projector. The slide projection of a beautiful green landscape by Cezanne fills the wall by the door.
Mid-period. Landscape of a dark green forest. In the far distance you see the sunlight. One of his first uses of a pale color being forced to carry the weight of the picture. The experiment that would pay of f in the apples. A burst of color asked to carry so much-- The Japanese don't like anything about it except it's a Cezanne-- And suddenly the door in the wall opens up. A YOUNG BLACK MAN supported by the ELEVATOR MAN, appears in the Cezanne forest holding his eyes against the projector's light. And OUISA behind HIM. FLAN clicks off the projector. OUISA switches on the living room lights. THE YOUNG BLACK MAN - PAUL - is in his early twenties, very handsome, very preppy. His shirt front is ripped and bloodied. Fresh blood. EDDIE helps PAUL to the sofa, OUISA following at a loss.
I'm so sorry to bother you, but I've been hurt- and I've lost everything and I didn't know where to go. Your children-- I'm a friend of --
And he mentioned our childrens' names.
And the school where they went.
Harvard. You can say Harvard.
We don't want to get into libel.
I was mugged. Out there. In Central Park. By the statue of that Alaskan husky. I was standing there trying to figure out why there is a statue of a dog who saved lives in the Yukon in Central 'Park and I was standing there trying to puzzle it out when -
Are you okay?
They took my money and my brief case. I said my thesis is in there - PAUL looks down. HE sees the blood seeping through his shirt.
His shirt's bleeding.
His shirt is not bleeding. He's bleeding. PAUL holds his mouth, nauseous.
I get this way around blood. FLAN Not on the rug. Eddie, get the doctor-- EDDIE turns to leave.
No! I'll survive. Please. No doctors - PAUL, frightened, looks at FLAN. FLAN We'll call if we need any - FLAN helps PAUL out of the room down the hall.
Thank you, Eddie - EDDIE goes. FLAN, followed by OUISA, supports PAUL into
I don't mind the money. But in this age of mechanical reproduction they managed to get the only copy of my thesis.
Where's the first aid book! OUISA runs into their bedroom. PAUL looks out the bathroom door into FLAN and OUISA'S bedroom. PAUL watches OUISA as she goes into
We bathed him. We did First Aid.
The Red Cross advises: Press edges of the wound firmly together, wash area with water-
Yes! I'm doing that - Hold on FLAN daubs on mercurochrome.
Owww!
Hold still! Ouisa! I need gauze! GEOFFREY pokes his head in the bathroom.
It's been wonderful seeing you--
No no no! Stay!
My time is so short. Before I leave America, I really should call -
You darling old poop -
Have you seen the new book on Cezanne?
An absolute revelation - this'll only take a mo- OUISA rushes out of the bathroom after GEOFFREY.
I need the gauze
I ran down the hall to get the book on Cezanne, got the gauze from my bathroom--
Gave the Cezanne to Flan who wanted the gauze, gave the gauze to Geoffrey who wanted Cezanne. OUISA mutters under her breath as she dashes down
two million dollars two million dollars
ouisa? OUISA grabs the gauze out of GEOFFREY's hand. SHE runs back down the HALL.
Two million dollars two million dollars--
He's going to be fine. GEOFFREY appears in the door with the book on Cezanne.
Lovely book. FLAN looks stricken.
Please? Stay? GEOFFREY pauses.
Agreed. FLAN beams.
And peace was restored.
Your children said you were kind. All the kids were sitting around the dorm one night dishing the- shit out of their parents. But your kids were silent and said No, not our parents. Not Flan and Ouisa. Not the Kittredges. The Kittredges are kind. So after the muggers left, I looked up and saw these Fifth Avenue apartments. Mrs. Onassis lives there. I know the Babcocks live over there. The Auchinclosses live there. But you lived here. I came here. OUISA, so touched, turns to FLAN and GEOFFREY.
Can you believe what the kids said? PAUL looks at the framed photos on wall of
But your kids - I love them. Talbot and Woody mean the world to me.
He lets you call him Woody? Nobody's called him Woody in years. THEY come into
They described this apartment in detail. This is a Kandinsky! - a double. One painted on either side. May I see - ? OUISA lifts the painting off the wall and turns it around. Even GEOFFREY is taken by the painting.
What makes it valuable is Kandinsky painted on either side of the canvas in two wildly different styles. One side is geometric and somr=r. The other side is wild and vivid.
My god!
We flip it around for variety. OUISA happily turns the painting back and forth to show off its two sides. The SCREEN is filled with the bright colors then the dark colors.
You like? You like? Chaos? Control? Chaos? Control? SHE puts on a goofy happy face for the chaotic side and a dopey tragic face for the geometric. Yes. We've been here before, through OUISA's memory, at the wedding.
It's wonderful. OUISA leans the painting against a chair, the chaotic side showing.
Wassily Kandinsky. Born 1866 Moscow. Blue Rider Exhibition 1914. He said "It is clear that the choice of object that is one of the elements in the harmony of form must be decided only by a corresponding vibration in the human soul".  Died 1944 France. JULIA nods. Ah yes.
It's the way they said it would be.
Geoffrey had been silent up to now.
Did you bitch your parents?
As a matter of fact. No. Your kids and I...we both liked our parents... loved our--Look, am I getting in the way? I burst in here, hysterical. Blood. I didn't mean to--- FLAN and OUISA No!
Tell us about our children.
How Harvard?
Well, fine. It's just there. Everyone's in a constant state of luxurious despair and constant discovery and paralysis.
We asked him where home was
Out West, he said.
Although I've lived all over. My folks are divorced. He's remarried. He's doing a movie.
He's in the movies?
He's directing this one but he does act.
What's he directing?
Cats.
Someone is directing a film of Cats?
Don't be snooty.
You've'seen it? T.S. Eliot--
Well, yes. Years ago.
A benefit for some disease or school---
Surely they can't make the movie of Cats.
Of course they can.
They're going to try. My father'll be here
Cats?
He's going to use people.
What a courageous stand!
They thought of lots of ways to go. Animation.
Animation would be nice.
But he found a better way. As a matter of fact, he turned it down at first. He went to tell the producers - as a courtesy - all the reasons why you couldn't make a movie of Cats and in going through all the reasons why you couldn't make a movie of Cats, he suddenly saw how you could make a movie of Cats --
Eureka in the bathtub. How wonderful.
May we ask who --
And it was here we pulled up - ever so slightly - pulled up closer--
And he told us.
He named the greatest black star in movies.
Don't say it. We're trying to keep this abstract. Plus libel laws.
Sidney Poitiers There. I don't care. We have to have truth. He started out as a lawyer and is terrified of libel. I'm not.
Sidney Poitier, the future Jackie Robinson of films, was born the twenty fourth of February 1927 in Miami during a visit his parents made to Florida - legally? -to sell tomatoes they had grown on their farm in the Bahamas. He grew up on Cat Island, "so poor they didn't even own dirt" he has said. Neglected by his family, my father would sit on the shore, and, as he told me many times, "conjure up the kind of worlds that were on the other side and what I'd do in them." He arrived in New York City from the Bahamas in the winter of 1943 at age fifteen and a half and lived in the pay toilet of the bus station across from the old Madison Square Garden at Fiftieth and Eighth Avenue. He moved to the roof of the Brill building, commonly known as Tin Pan Alley. Washed dishes at the Turf restaurant for $4.11 a night. He taught 0 himself to read by reading the newspaper. In the Black newspaper, the theater page was opposite the Want Ad page. Among his 42 films are No Way Out 1950/ Cry the Beloved Country 1952/ Blackboard Jungle 1955/ The Defiant Ones 1958/ Raisin in the Sun 1961/ Lilies of the Field 1963/ In the Heat of the Night 1967/ To Sir With Love 1967/ Shoot to Kill 1988 and, of course,
Guess Who's Coming To Dinner.
He won the Oscar for Lilies of the Field and was twice named top male box-office star in the country. My father made no films from 1977 to 1987 but worked as director and author. Dad said to me once "I still don't fully understand how all that came about in the sequence it came about". And we hear the OFF SCREEN PRESENCE applauding. PAUL bows, happily. HE kicks his shoe off into the camera.
Dad's not in till tomorrow at the Sherry. I came down from Cambridge. Thought I'd stay at some fleabag for adventure. Orwell. Down and Out. I really don't know New York. I know Rome and Paris and Los Angeles a lot better.
We're-going out to dinner. You'll come.
Out to dinner?
Out to dinner.
But why go out to dinner?
Because we have reservations and oh my god'what time is it? Have we lost the reservations and we don't have a damn thing in the house and it's Sixteenth century Florence and there's genius on every block.
Don't mock. SHE kisses GEOFFREY.
You must have something in the fridge.
A frozen steak from the Ice Age.
Why spend a hundred dollars on a bowl of rice? Let me into the kitchen. Cooking calms me. What I'd like to do is calm down, pay back your kids-
He mentioned our kids names--
Two. Two at Harvard. A daughter at Groton.
- who've been wonderful to me.
They've never mentioned you.
What are they supposed to say? We've become friends with the son of Sidney Poitier, barrier breaker of the fifties and sixties?
Your father means a great deal in South Africa.
Even Geoffrey was touched.
I'm glad of that. Dad and I went to Russia once to a film festival and he was truly amazed how much his presence meant -
Oh no! Tell us stories of movie stars tying up their children and being cruel.
I wish.
You wish?
If I wanted to write a book about him. I really can't. No one would want to read it. He's decent. I admire him.
He's married to an actress who was in one of-- she's white? Am I right?
That is not my mother. That is his second wife. He met Joanna making "The Lost Man". He left my mother who had stuck by him in the lean years. X had just been born. "The Lost Man" is the only film of my father's I can't bring myself to see.
Oh, I'm sorry. We didn't mean to -
No! We're all good friends now. . His kids from that marriage. Us - the old kids. I'd love to get in that kitchen. FLAN What should we do?
It's Geoffrey's only night in New York.
I vote - stay in. OUISA, FLAN and PAUL Good!
We moved.into the kitchen.
We watched him cook.
We watched him cook and chop.
He sort of did wizardry
An old jar of sun dried tomatoes--
Left avers - tuna fish - olives - onions - It's all dazzling and rapid. FLAN opens the wine. OUISA takes dishes and silver out and hands them to GEOFFREY. EVERYONE is in a picnic spirit. PAUL fills a large pot with water from the tap. PAUL
Johannesburg. PAUSE. PAUL Studies GEOFFREY. OUISA and FLAN freeze. Is it a tense moment? PAUL takes a breath. PAUL puts the water on the fire, eyes never off GEOFFREY. Then PAUL resumes chopping onions briskly and dropping them into the frying pan.
My dad took me to a movie shot in South Africa. The camera moved from this vile rioting in the
it makes you realize that the 'crummy childhood' theory, that everything can be blamed in a Freudian fashion on the fact that you've had a bad upbringing, just doesn't hold water. May I?
Oh, please. PAUL pours a brandy.
What about being black in America? PAUL scoops a melange of vegetables into a glass dish and puts it in the microwave.
My problem is I've never felt American. I grew up in Switzerland. Boarding school. Villa Rosey.
There is a boarding school in Switzerland that takes you at age eighteen months.
That's not me. I've never felt people liked me for my connections. Movie star kid problems. None of those. THE WATER boils. HE dumps in pasta. The microwave timer goes off. PAUL removes the glass dish.
But I never knew I was black in that racist way 0 till I was sixteen and came back here. Very protected. White servants. After the divorce we moved to Switzerland. My mother, brother and Z. I don't feel American. I don't even feel black. I suppose that's very lucky for me even though Freud says there's no such thing as luck. Just what you make. PAUL takes the pasta off the boil and drains it, plopping the pasta into a brightly colored bowl. OUISA, FLAN and GEOFFREY sit at the counter, transfixed.
Does Freud say that? PAUL holds out three dishes heaped with food.
Here's dinner. All ready.
Shall we move into the dining room? OUISA opens double doors leading into
Don't look at the sewing machine. FLAN sweeps the bill things off the table onto a chair. OUISA opens the sideboard and takes out four linen place mats and silverware and quickly sets the table. PAUL takes out matches and lights the Haitian card"e'Yabra. FLAN runs into the living room and returns with a vase of flowers. THEY smile at the appearance of the sudden party in this wonderful room. THEY sit down. THEY eat. Surprise. It's delicious.
Is everything okay? FLAN, OUISA and GEOFFREY Mmrmmm .. yes.
This is the best pasta I've ever -
The best!
My father insisted we learn to cook.
Isn't he from Jamaica? There's a taste of--
The islands.
Yes. Before he made it, he ran four restaurants in Harlem. You have good buds!
See? Good buds. I've never been complimented on my buds-
I am astonished!
Where's yours?
The cook never eats.
The more for us! THEY all laugh. PAUL leaves the room abruptly. FLAN, OUISA and GEOFFREY look at each other. FLAN stands.
Hello? PAUL returns with the rest of the real in brightly painted bowls.
Seconds? THEY laugh and are served.
Have you declared your major yet?
You're like all parents. What's your major?
Geoffrey, Harvard has all those great titles the students give courses.
The Holocaust and Ethics?
Krauts and Doubts.
I think we're lucky having this dinner. Isn't this the finest time? A toast to you.
To Cats!
Blunt question. What's he like?
Let's not be star fuckers.
I'm not a star fucker.
My father, being an actor, has no real identity. You say to him, Pop, what's new? And he says, 'I got an interesting script today. I was asked to play a lumberjack up in the Yukon. Now, I've been trained as a Preacher, but my church fell apart. My wife says we have to get mbney to get through this winter. And I sign up as part of this team where all my beliefs are challenged. But I hold firm. In spite of prejudice because I want to get back to my wife. Out of this forest,back to the church... .' And my father is in tears and I say Pop, this i:. not a real event, this is some script that was sent to you. And my father says ' I' m trying it out to see how it fits on me.' But he has no life--he has no memory--only the scripts producers send him in the mail through his agents. That's his past.
I just loved the kid so much. I wanted to reach out to him.
And then we asked him what his thesis was on.
The one that was stolen. Please?
Well... (HE takes a deep breath and leans back in
A substitute teacher out on Long Island was dropped from his job for fighting with a student. A few weeks later, the teacher returned to the classroom, shot the student unsuccessfully, held the class hostage and then shot himself. Successfully. This fact caught my eye: last sentence. Times. A neighbor described the teacher as a nice boy. Always reading Catcher In the Rye. The nitwit - Chapman - who shot John Lennon said he did it because he wanted to-`draw the attention of the world to Catcher In the Rye and the reading of that book would be his defense. And young Hinckley, the whiz kid who shot Reagan and his press secretary said if you want my defense all you have to do is read catcher in the Rye. It seemed to be time to read it again.
I haven't read it in years. OUISA shushes FLAN.
I borrowed a copy from a young friend of mine because I wanted to see what she had underlined and I read this book to find out why this touching, beautiful, sensitive story published in July 1951 had turned into this manifesto of hate. I started reading. : It's exactly as I remembered. Everybody's a phoney. Page two: "My brother's in Hollywood being a prostitute." Page three: "what a phony slob his father was." Page nine: "People never notice anything." Then on page twenty two my hair stood up. Remember Holden Caulfield--the definitive sensitive youth--wearing his red hunter's cap. "A deer Hunter hat? Like hell it is. I sort of closed one eye like I was taking aim at it. This is a people shooting hat. I shoot people in this hat."
Hmmm, I said. This book is preparing people for bigger moments in their lives than I ever dreamed of. Then on p. 89 "I'd rather push a guy out the window or chop his head off with an ax than sock him in the jaw. I hate fist fights...what scares me most is the other guy's face..." I finished the book. It's a touching story, comic because the boy wants to do so much and can't do anything. Hates all phoniness and only lies to others. Wants everyone to like him, is only hateful, and is completely self involved. In other words, a pretty accurate picture of a male adolescent. FLAN, OUISA, .GEOFFREY are transfixed. And what alarms me about that book--not the book so much as the aura about it--is this: the book is primarily about paralysis. The boy can't function. And at the end before he can run away and start a new life, it starts to rain and he folds. Now there's nothing wrong in writing about emotional and intellectual paralysis. It may indeed thanks to Chekhov and Samuel Beckett be the great modern theme. The extraordinary last lines of Waiting For Godot--"Let's go." "Yes, let's go." Stage directions: They do not move. But the aura around this book of Salinger's-- which perhaps should be read by everyone ut young men---is this: It mirrors like a fun house mirror and amplifies like a distorted speaker one of the great tragedies of our times- --the death of the imagination. Because what else is paralysis? The CAMERA moves closer and closer in on PAUL.
The imagination has been so debased that imagination--being imaginative-- rather than being the lynch pin of our existence now stands as a synonym for something outside ourselves like Science fiction or some new use for tangerine slices on raw pork chops---what an imaginative summer recipe--and Star wars! So imaginative and Star Trek--so imaginative! And Lord of the Rings--all those dwarves--so
The imagination has moved out of the realm of being our link, our most personal link, with our inner lives and the world outside that world-- this world we share--what is schizophrenia but a horrifying state where what's in here doesn't match up with what's out there? Why has imagination become a synonym for style? I believe that the imagination is the passport we create to take us into the real world. I believe the imagination is another phrase for what is most uniquely Is.
FLAN, GEOFFREY, OUISA are very moved.
Well, indeed.
I hope your muggers read every word.
I'm going to buy a copy of Catcher i. the Rye at the airport and read it.
Cover to cover
I'll test you. I should be going. PAUL starts to go. THEY follow. THE DINING ROOM opens into
Where will you stay?
Not some flea bag.
I get into the Sherry tomorrow morning. It's not so far off. I can walk around. I don't think they'll mug me twice in one evening. FLAN and OUISA take's PAUL's by the arm and leads him down the hall into
You'll stay here tonight.
No! I have to be at the hotel at seven AM sharp!
We'll get you up.
or Dad will have a fit.
Up at six fifteen which is any moment now and we have that wedding in Millbrook- OUISA pulls back the covers on the bed and puts the dolls on the floor.
There's an alarm by the bed
Your feet might hang out over the end
If it's any problem--
It's only a problem if you leave. PAUL takes the alarm and sets the time.
Six fifteen? I'll tip toe out.
And we want to be in Cats.
It's done. THEY shake hands.
I'll fly back. With my wife.
Pushy. Both of you. PAUL sits on the bed, testing it.
He's not. Dad said I could be in charge of the extras. You'd just be extras. That's all I can promise.
In cat suits?
No. You can be humans.
That's very important. It has to be in our contracts. We are humans.
We haven't got any business done tonight.
Forget it. It was only an evening at home.
Whatever you do, don't think about elephants. GEOFFREY puts on his overcoat.
Did I intrude? FLAN and OUISA No!
I'm sorry - Oh Christ - GEOFFREY
Love to Diana. OUISA kisses GEOFFREY on the cheek.
We embraced. And Flan and Geoffrey left -
Let me clean up -
Hal Leave it for - PAUL looks at the table filled with dishes and bowls and glasses and napkins.
Nobody comes in on Sunday. PAUL snuffs out the candles with his fingers.
Yvonne will be in on Tuesday.
You'll have every bug in Christendom - The room is dark, -lit only from the living room. THEY both reach for the dishes.
Let me -
No. You watch. It gives me a thrill to be looked at. PAUL looks at HER. OUISA is momentarily at a loss. PAUL goes into the kitchen. The service door into the kitchen swings back and forth.
OUISA in the dining room looks at PAUL's back as HE washes dishes at the sink. Suddenly the dining room is flooded with light. FLAN has flicked on the light.
He's in.
He's in? FLAN parades around the table.
He's in for two million.
Two million!
He says the Cezanne is a great inv1stment. We should get it for six million and sell it to the Tokyo bunch for ten.
Happy days! Oh god! PAUL comes into the dining room.
Two million dollars? FLAN runs into
Figure it out. He doesn't have the price of -a dinner but he can cough up two million dollars and the Japs will go ten! PAUL and OUISA come into the living room.
Go to ten? Ten million?
Break all those dishes! Two million! Go to ten! And we put up nothing?
Nothing?
Geoffrey sold that Hockney print I know he bought for a hundred bucks fifteen years ago for thirty four thousand dollars. Sotheby took their cut, sure but still--Two million! Wildest dreams. Paul, I should give you a commission.
Your kids said you were an art dealer. But you don't have a gallery. I don't understand -
People want to sell privately. Not go through a gallery.
A divorce. Taxes. Publicity. FLAN People come to me looking for a certain school of painting.
A modern.. Impressionist. Renaissance.
But don't want museums to know where it is.
Japanese. OUISA, FLAN and PAUL go down the hall to
FLAN flicks on his computer.
I've got Japanese looking for a Cezanne. I have a syndicate that will buy the painting. There is this great second level Cezanne coming up for sale in a very messy divorce. FLAN holds up the slide.
Wife doesn't want hubby to know she owns a Cezanne. PAUL looks at the slide.
I needed an extra two million. Geoffrey called. Invited him here for dinner.
Tonight was a very nervous very casual very big thing.
I couldn't tell -
All the better. 0 FLAN opens a door in the OFFICE. THE OFFICE connects to
I'm glad I helped -
You were wonderful!
I'm so pleased I was wonderful. All this and a pink shirt.
Keep it. Look at the time.
It's going to be time for me to get up.
Then we'll say our good nights now.
Oh Christ. Regretfully. I4l1 tip toe. PAUL and OUISA follow FLAN into
PAUL goes into their daughter's bedroom. FLAN and OUISA hover in the hall. FLAN takes out his wallet.
Take fifty dollars.
Give him fifty dollars.
Don't need it.
Suppose your father's plane is late?
A strike. Air controllers.
Walking around money. I wouldn't want my kids to be stuck in the street without a nickel. PAUL sits on the bed and takes off his shoes.
And you saved us a fortune. Do you know what our bill would've been at that little Eye-tie store front?
And we picked up two million dollars. One billionth of a percent commission is -
Fifty dollars. FLAN hands PAUL the money. PAUL hesitates, then takes it.
But I'll get it back to you tomorrow. I want my father to meet you.
We'd love to. Bring him up for dinner.
Could I?
You see how easy it is.
Sure. If Paul does the cooking. FLAN, OUISA and PAUL laugh. OUISA goes into the bathroom and fills a glass with water and puts it on the night table.
Goodnight. PAUL smiles at them.
I want to get on my knees and thank god -money-
Who said when artists dream they dream of money? I must be such an artist. Bravo. Bravo. FLAN putting on pajamas, OUISA her nightgown.
I don't want to lose our life here. I don't want all the debt to pile up and crush us.
It won't. We're safe. OUISA in bed turns off the light. FLAN looks out the window onto the park.
For a while. We almost lost it. If I didn't get this money,. Ouis, I would've lost the Cezanne. It would've gone. I had nowhere to get it. OUISA gets out of bed and comes to FLAN.
Why don't you tell me how much these things mean? You wait till the last minute - OUISA and FLAN get into bed.
I don't want to worry you.
Not worry me? I'm your partner.
There is a god.
And his name- is --
Geoffrey?
Sidney. THEY embrace. THE CAMERA comes in very close, circling FLAN and OUISA, their love, their safety. Then THE CAMERA drifts back and away from them, travelling out through the window, out of their cocoon to
I dreamt of Sidney Poitier and his rise to acclaim. I dreamt that Sidney Poitier sat at the edge of my bed and I asked him what troubled him? Sidney? What troubles you? Is it right to make a movie of Cats?
"SIDNEY" I'll tell you why I have to make a movie of Cats. I know what Cats is, Louisa. May I call you Louisa?  I have no illusions about the merits of Cats. But the world has been too heavy with all the right to lifers. Protect the lives of the unborn. Constitutional amendments. Marches! When does life begin? Or the converse. The end of life. The Right To Die. Why is life at this point in the 20th century so focussed on the very beginning of life and the very end of life? What about the eighty years we have to live between those two inexorable book ends? THE CAMERA closes on OUISA. Her face, seen over "SIDNEY's" shoulder, is all wonder.
And you can get all that into Cats? THE CAMERA drifts round with OUISA'S gaze to finally see "SIDNEY'S" face. ,. It is PAUL.
I'm going to try.
Thank you. Thank you. You shall. THE CAMERA circles off PAUL to OUISA. She is asleep. CUT BACK to reveal No one is sitting on the bed. THE CAMERA moves onto FLAN's face, sleeping. Slides of paintings by Matisse, Picasso, De Kooning, Pollock appear over his face.
This is what I dreamt. I didn't dream so much as realize this. I felt so close to the paintings. I wasn't just selling like pieces of meat. I remembered why I loved paintings in the first place - what had got me into this - and I thought - dreamed - remembered-
How easy it is for a painter to lose a painting. He can paint and paint - work on a canvas for months and one day he loses it - just loses the structure - loses the sense of it - you lose the painting. A BRIGHT WHITE LIGHT shines on FLAN who turns to see A TEACHER, in her forties, very pure and happy, hanging beautiful and brilliantly colored children's drawings in the air. FLAN'S VOICE echoes in this vast space.
Why are all your students geniuses in the second grade? Look at the first grade. Blotches of green and black. Look at third grade. Camouflage. But the second grade --your grade. Matisses everyone. You've made my child a Matisse. Let me study with you. Let me into the second grade! What is your secret?
Secret? I don't have any secret. I just know when to take their drawings away from them. THE TEACHER hangs pink shapes like paper versions of PAUL'S button down shirt on a clothes line stretching to the end of the hangar. THE SCREEN is filled with the color Pink.
OUISA walks through
OUISA looks at the spotlessly clean sink and counter. SHE flicks on the coffee machine and takes juice out of the refrigerator scanning the front page. SHE sits at the counter and opens the magazine to the back page and begins to do the cross word puzzle.
I sat in the kitchen happily doing the cross word puzzle in ink. Everybody does it in ink. I never. met one person who didn't say they did it in ink.
And I'm doing the puzzle and I see the time and it's nearly seven and Paul had to meet his father and I didn't want him to be late and was he healthy after his stabbing? OUISA puts the puzzle down and goes into
The hall is eighteen feet long. OUISA walks down the hall which now seems impossibly long.
I stopped in front of the door. OUISA taps on the door of her daughter's room.
Paul? SHE hears - what? - sounds of moaning?
Paul??
Are you all right? OUISA opens the door to
What the fuck is going on here. Who the fuck are you?! PAUL, startled,"sits up in bed and pulls on his clothes. OUISA screams.
Flan!!
What is it?! FLAN AND OUISA step out into
THEY hear their dog bark in
Hey! How ya doin'? Nice stuff.
Oh my God! THE HUSTLER stretches out on the sofa.
Hey. I got to get some sleep-- FLAN tips the sofa, hurling the HUSTLER onto the floor. THE HUSTLER leaps at FLAN threateningly.
Stop it! He might have a gun!
Yeah. I might have a gun. I might have a knife. THE HUSTLER raises his hand threateningly.
He has a gun! He has a knife! THE HUSTLER chases OUISA around the room. FLAN chases the HUSTLER. THE DOG chases FLAN. PAUL,dressed, runs in to the living room, carrying THE HUSTLER's clothes which HE hurls down onto the sofa.
I can explain.
You went out after we went to sleep and picked up this thing?
You brought this thing into our house! Thing! Thing! Get out! Get out of my house! FLAN picks up the HUSTLER'S clothes and opens the front door.
Hey! Be careful of the pants!
Take your clothes. Go back to sleep in the gutter. FLAN flings the clothes out into
Fuck. You! THE HUSTLER throws FLAN back violently, then picks up his clothes. OUISA runs to FLAN. FLAN gasps, catching his breath. THE ELEVATOR DOOR opens.. EDDIE, the elevator man, is startled by the sight.
Please. Don't tell my father. I don't want him to know. I haven't told him. I got. so lonely. I got so afraid. My dad coming. I had the money. I went out after we went to sleep and I brought him back. You had so much. I couldn't be alone. I was so afraid. I am so sorry.
Just go.
Is everything all right?
Make sure they go out!
I can explain!
Give me my fifty dollars.
I spent it.
Get out!
I'm so sorry. THE HUSTLER is in the elevator, pulling on his seedy clothes.
Make sure they leave. By the back door. PAUL steps into the elevator. The door shuts.
And that's that.
Well, it's not
I am shaking.
You have to do something.
it's awful.
Is anything gone?
How can I look? I'm shaking.
Did he take anything?
Would you concentrate on yourself?
I want to know if anything's gone?
Calm down.
We could have been killed.
The silver Victorian inkwell.
How can you think of things? We could have been murdered. FLAN picks up an ornate Victorian inkwell capped by a silver beaver.
There's the inkwell. Silver beaver. Why?
Slashed ---our throats slashed. A framed portrait of a pug.
And there's the watercolor. Our dog. FLAN pets his dog.
Go to bed at night happy and then murdered. would we have woken up?
we're alive. THEY sit on the sofa, drained, holding onto the phone. The phone suddenly rings. THEY clutch each other.
Don't pick it up! FLAN does.
Hello?
Flanders. Look, I've been thinking. Those Japs really want the Cezanne. They'll pay. You can depend on me for an additional overcall of two fifty.
Two hundred and fifty thousand?
And I was thinking for South Africa. What about a black American film festival? With this Spike Lee you have now and of course get Poitier down to be the president of the jury and I know Cosby and I love this Eddie Murphy and my wife went fishing in Norway with Diana Ross and her new Norwegian husband. And also they must have some
Yes. It sounds a wonderful idea.
I'll call Poitier at the Sherry --
No! We'll call!
GEOFFREY picks up the phone as it slides off the band.
They're calling my plane- And again last night-
No need to thank. See you shortly.
The banks.
My lawyer.
Exactly.
Safe trip.
We're safe? As FLAN hangs up the phone we hear a car door shut as FLAN and OUISA get in their car.
And then?
And then?
That's all we know! And FLAN and OUISA drive out of the parking lot.
Do we have a story to tell you!
Do we have a story to tell you!
Our two and their son are at Harvard together. KITTY and LARKIN are pleased about this.
Let me tell you our story.
When did your story happen?
Last night. We are still zonked.
we win. Our story happened Friday night. So we go first.
We're going to be in the movies.
We are going to be in the movie of Cats. OUISA puts down her white wine.
You tell your story first.
Friday night we were home, the doorbell rang---
I am not impressed but it was the son of -
The kid was mugged. We had to go out. We left him. He was so charming. His father was taking the red eye. He couldn't get into the Hotel till seven AN. He stayed with us. SHE is very pleased.
In the middle of the night, we heard somebody screaming Burglar! Burglar! We came out in the hall. Paul is chasing this naked blonde thief down the corridor. The blonde thief runs out, the alarm goes off. The kid saved our lives.
That was no burglar.
You had another house guest. KITTY and LARKIN laugh.
We feel so guilty. Paul could've been killed by that intruder. He was very understanding -
Was anything missing from your house?
Nothing.
Did you give him money?
Twenty-five dollars until his father arrived.
We told them our story.
Have you talked to your kids?
Can't get through.
Let's go back to our place.
Sherry Netherlands. I'd like--
She gave the name.
No! I'm not a fan. This is not a fan call. Sidney Poitier must be registered. His son is a friend of- CLICK. The Sherry's hung up. The doorbell rings. FLAN goes to the door.
He must be there under another name. Another phone call.
Hi. Celebrity Service? I'm not sure how you work.
Greta Garbo used the name Harriet Brown.
You track down celebrities? Am I right?
Everybody must have known she was Greta Garbo.
I'm trying to find out how one would get in touch with---No, I'm not a press agent--No, I'm not with anyone---My husband. Flanders Kittredge?
Try the public library.
Try Who's Who. FLAN returns carrying an elaborate arrangement of flowers. FLAN reads the card.
"To thank you for a wonderful time. Paul Poitier.'" FLAN reaches into the bouquet. HE takes out a p.t of jam.
A pot of jam?
A pot of jam. THEY back off as if it might explode.
I think we should go to the police.
What are the charges?
He came into our house.
He cooked us dinner.
He told us the story of Catcher In The Rye.
He said he was the son of Sidney Poitier.
Sidney Poitier? FLAN and OUISA You got it.
Was he?
We don't know.
We gave him fifty dollars.
We gave him twenty five.
He picked up a hustler.
He left.
He chased the burglar out of our house.
He didn't steal anything.
We looked and looked.
Top to bottom. Nothing gone. THE DETECTIVE closes his notebook.
Granted this does not seem major now.
Look. We're very busy.
You can't chuck us out.
Come up with charges. Then I'll do something.
Yes, there is another chapter.
Our kids came down from Harvard. a Loud groans of protest and disbelief fill the
--the details he knew--how would he know about the painting? FLAN has taken the Kandinsky off the wall and flipped it around to the wild side.
Although I think it's a very fine Kandinsky. FLAN leans the painting against a chair and studies it.
And none of you knows this fellow? He has this wild quality--yet, a real elegance and a real concern and a real consideration. TESS looks at the floral arrangement PAUL sent. It's only slightly wilted.
Well, Mom, you should have let him stay. You should have divorced all your children and just let this dreamboat stay. Plus he sent you flowers.
And jam .
Oooooo.
I wish I knew how to get hold of his father. Just to see if there is any truth in it.
Who knows Sidney Poitier so we could just call him up and ask him?
I have a friend who does theatrical law. I bet he -
What friend? KITTY Oh, it's nobody.
I want to know.
Nobody!
Whatever's going on anywhere, I do not want to know. I don't want to know. I don't want to know.
Nobody. Nobody. Nobody.
Dad. Mom. Please. For once. Please? BEN, KITTY, LARKIN scream at each other in anguish. TESS, in a fury, leaves the apartment. FLAN follows HER to
Tess, when you see your little sister, don't tell her that Paul and the hustler used her bed.
You put him in that bed. I'm not going to get involved with any conspiracy.
It's not a conspiracy. It's a family. THE ELEVATOR DOOR opens. TESS and FLAN virtually growl at each other as the door shuts on TESS.
The imagination. That's our out. Our imagination teaches us our limits and then how to grow beyond those limits. The imagination says listen to me. I at your darkest voice. .I am your 4am voice. I am the voice that wakes you up and says this is what I'm afraid of. Do not listen to me at your peril. The imagination is the noon voice that sees clearly and says yes this is what I want for my life. It's there to sort out your nightmare, to show you the exit from the maze of-your nightmare, to transform the nightmare into dreams that become your bedrock. If we don't listen to that voice, it dies. It shrivels. It vanishes.  The imagination is not our escape. on the contrary, the imagination is the place we are all trying to get to. PAUL lifts his shirt and stabs himself. OUISA screams. PAUL falls over backward into space. The phone rings, waking OUISA. FLAN picks up the phone. OUISA sits up, a little stunned. She is relieved to find things so normal.
I got a call that might interest you.
And a new character entered our story
I was seeing a patient. I'm an obstetrician at New York Hospital. The nurse opened my office door.
There's a friend of your son's here. PAUL appears,- looking much as HE was when HE came to FLAN and OUISA's. PAUL's shirt front is bleeding.
I treated the kid. He was more scared than hurt. A knife wound, a few bruises.
PAUL gets off the examining table, buttoning his pink shirt.
I don't know how to thank you, sir. My father is coming here.
And he told me the name of a matinee idol of my youth. Somebody who had really forged ahead and made new paths for Blacks just by the strength of-his own talent. Strangely, I had identified with him, before I started Medical School. I mean, I'm a Jew. My grandparents were killed in the war. I had this sense of self-hatred, of fear. And this kid's father - the bravery of his films - had given me a direction, a confidence. Simple as that. We're always paying off debts. Then my beeper went off. A patient in her tenth month of labor. Her water finally broke. I gave'him the keys.
DR. FINE gives PAUL a set of keys and walks him out into
Doug's told me all about your brownstone. How you got it at a great price because there had been a murder in it and for a while people thought it had a curse but you were a scientific man and were courageous!
Well, yes! Courageous!
Very courageous.
I ran off to the delivery room. Twins! Two boys. I thought of my son. I dialed my boy at Dartmouth. Amazingly, he was in his room. Doing y hat I hate to ask.
So you accuse me of having no interest in your life, not doing for friends, being a rotten father. Well, you should be very happy.
The son of who? Dad, I never heard of him. Dad, as usual, you are a real cretin. You gave him the keys? You gave ,& complete stranger who happens to mention my name the keys to our house? Dad, sometimes it is so obvious to me why Mom left. I am so embarrassed to know you. You gave the keys to a stranger who shows up at your office? Mother told me you beat her! Mom told me you were a rotten lover and drank so much your body smelled of cheap white wine. Mom said sleeping with you was like sleeping with a salad made with bad dressing. Why you had to bring me into the world! A GIRL sits up in bed, terrified.
There are two sides to every story -
You're an idiot! You're an idiot! THE GIRL in bed puts pillows over her head.
I went home..-courageously with a policeman.
THEY hear a Debussy quartet playing. PAUL sits in the living room wearing a silk robe, swirling a snifter of brandy, listening to the music. PAUL smiles when HE sees DR. FINE, but when the COP appears with the gun, PAUL rolls over on his side out of the chair.
Arrest him! DR. FINE snaps off the radio. PAUL backs up against the wall.
Pardon?
Breaking and entering.
Breaking and entering?
You're an imposter.
Officer, your honor, your eminence, Dr. Fine cave me the keys to his brownstone. Isn't that so?
My son doesn't know you.
This man gave me the keys to the house. Isn't that so? THE COP puts his gun away.
Did you give him the key to the house?
Yes, but under false pretenses. This fucking black kid crack addict comes into my office
I have taken this much brandy but can pour the rest back into the bottle. And I've used electricity listening to the music, but I think you'll find that nothing's taken from the house. PAUL takes off the silk robe and neatly places it on the table.
I want you to arrest this fraud. PAUL puts on his jacket and leaves the house.
Stop him! THE POLICEMAN walks away.
A cretin! A creep! No wonder mother left you!
Two sides. Every story. But THE TWO COUPLES are also embarrassed.
We went down to the Strand -
Five Sherlock Holmeses-
I found it! OUISA'S HAND reaches up and brings down.
A COPY OF SIDNEY POITIER'S AUTOBIOGRAPHY: "This Life" OUISA reads from the Poitier autobiography. THE OTHERS are enrapt..
"Back in New York with Juanita and the children, I began to become aware that our marriage, while working on some levels, was falling apart in other fundamental areas." FLAN takes the book.
There's a picture of him and his four- daughters. No sons. Four daughters.
The book's called This Life.
No sons?
No sons!
Oh dear.
This kid bulldozing his way into our lives.
is We let him in our lives. I run a foundation. You're a dealer. You're a doctor. You'd think we'd be satisfied with our achievements.
Agatha Christie would ask what do we all have in common?
It seems the common thread linking us all is an overwhelming need to be in the movie of Cats.
Our kids. Struggling through their lives.
I don't want to know anything about the spillover of their lives.
His mother had custody. I lived out West. After he graduated from high school, she moved west. I moved east.
I think we should drop it right here.
Are you afraid Ben is mixed up in this fraud?
I don't want to know too much about my kid.
You think Ben is hiding things from us? I tell you, I'm getting to the bottom of this. My son has no involvements with any black frauds. Doctor, you said something about crack?
It just leaped out of my mouth. No proof. Oh dear god, no proof.
We'll take a vote. Do we pursue this to the end no matter what we find out about our kids?
I vote yes.
I trust Doug. Yes.
No.
Yes.
Yes. KITTY looks through the Poitier autobiography.
Listen to the last page. ".. .making it better for our children. Protecting them. From what? The truth is what we were protecting those little people from... there is a lot to worry about and I'd better start telling the little bastards - start worrying!" The end. KITTY closes the book in dismay. OUISA, FLAN, LARKIN, and DR. FINE are each lost in thought.
We all went up to Harvard.
We had to enlist our children -
It's obvious. It's somebody you went to High School with, since you go to different colleges.
I just want to tell you how I appreciate your coming today -
Dad? Spare me? DOUG'S voice echoes.
He knows the details about our lives.
Who in your high school, part of your gang, has become homosexual or is deep into drugs?
That's like about fifteen people. TESS enjoys her echo because it makes FLAN and OUISA uncomfortable.
I don't want to know.
I find it really insulting that you would assume that it has to be a guy. This movie star's son could have had a relationship with a girl in
And BEN is just as loud.
That's your problem in a nut shell. You're so limited. FLAN and OUISA try to shush them.
That's why I'm going to Afghanistan. To climb mountains.
You are not climbing mountains.
We have not invested all this money in you to scale the face of K-2. TESS leans across the table, matching them whisper for whisper.
Is that all I am? An investment?
All right. Track down everybody in your high school class. Male. Female. Whatever. Not just homosexuals. Drug addicts. The kid might be a drug dealer. DOUG throws back his chair.
Why do you look at me when you say that? Do you think I'm an addict? A drug pusher? I really resent the accusations.
No one is accusing you of anything. Sit down. LARKIN gets up and paces around the table.
I don't want to know. I don't want to know. I don't want to know.
Nobody is accusing anyone of anything. I'm asking you to go on a detective search and find out from your high school class if anyone has met a Black kid pretending to be a movie star's son.
He promised you parts in Cats?
It wasn't just that. It was fun.
You went to Cats. You said it was an all time low in a lifetime of theater going. OUISA considers.
Film is a different medium.
You said Aeschylus did not invent theater to have it end up a bunch of chorus kids wondering which of them will go to Kitty Kat Heaven.
I don't remember saying that.
No, I think that was Starlight Express -
Well, maybe he'll make a movie of Starlight Express and you can all be on roller skates! THE KIDS stand up.
This is so humiliating.
This is so pathetic.
This is so racist.
This is not racist! THE KIDS stride out of the DINING HALL into
THEIR PARENTS run ahead trying to circle them.
How can I get in touch with anybody in high school? I've outgrown them.
Now can you outgrow them? You graduated a year ago! THE PARENTS stop in front of
Here is a copy of your yearbook. I want you to get the phone numbers of everybody in your class. You all went to the same boarding school.
You can charge it to my phone.
Call everyone in your class and ask them if they know-- THE THREE KIDS try to break through the blockade.
Never!
This is the KGB.
You're on the phone all the time. Now I ask you to make calls all over the country and you become reticent.
This is the entire McCarthy period. WOODY saunters up to his PARENTS. HE is very cool. FLAN and OUISA smile at his sweet attitude.
I just want to get one thing straight.
Finally, we hear from the peanut gallery. And WOODY screams at THEM in rage, his voice echoing, mindless of the STUDENTS who freeze in the background as you would at a traffic accident.
You gave him my pink shirt? You gave a complete stranger my pink shirt? That pink shirt was a Christmas present from you. I treasured that shirt. I loved that shirt. My collar size has grown a full size from weight lifting. And you saw my arms had grown, you saw my neck had grown. And you bought me that shirt for my new body. I loved that shirt. The first shirt for my new body. And you gave that shirt away. I can't believe it. I hate this life. I hate you.
You never do anything for me.
You've never done anything but tried to block me.
I'm only this pathetic extension of your eighth rate personality.
Social Darwinism pushed beyond all limits.
You gave away my pink shirt?
You want me to be everything you weren't.
You said drugs and looked at me. THE PARENTS go down the street, speechless, defeated.
PAGES of a Yearbook turning. The pages stop.
Trent Conway. -
Trent Conway.
Trent Conway.
Look at those beady eyes staring out at me.
Trent Conway.
He's at MIT.
So I went to MIT. He was there in his computer room and I just pressed him and pressed him and pressed him. I had this strapped to me. TESS puts a small tape recorder on the desk. TESS turns it on. OUISA listens to the tape.
But what happened between you?
It was...It was...
PAUL stretches out on the bed. HE pulls out a thick address -book from under him.
What's this? PAUL speaks.street talk speech. Hardly what we've heard.
My address book. TRENT tries to take the address book away from PAUL.
All these names. Addresses. Tell me about these people. TRENT lies along side PAUL.
This is where I wanted you to be... Right here... PAUL, hypnotised by the-'address book, slaps TRENT away from him and gets out of the bed.
Tell me about these people, man!
I just want to look at you. Sorry.
Are these all rich people? TRENT sits up in bed.
No. Hand to mouth on a higher plateau.
How long did Trent keep Paul? TESS shushes OUISA.
I think it must be very hard to be with rich people. You have to have money. You have to give them presents.
Not at all. Rich people do something nice for you, you give them a pot of jam.
That's what pots of jam are for?
Orange. Grapefruit. Strawberry. But fancy. They have entire stores filled with fancy pots of jam wrapped in cloth. English. Or French.
I'll tell you what I'll do. I pick a name. You tell me about them. Where they live. Secrets. And for each name you get a piece of clothing.
All right.
Kittredge. Talbot and Woodrow.
Talbot called Tess was anorexic and was in a hospital for a while. PAUL takes off a shoe and kicks it to TRENT.
Ouisa and Flan for Flanders Kittredge. Rhode Island I believe. Newport but not along the ocean. The street behind the ocean. He's an art dealer. They have a Kandinsky.
A Kan--what- ski?
Kandinsky. A double-sided Kandinsky. PAUL kicks off his other shoe.
I feel like Scheherazade! TRENT embraces PAUL with fierce tenderness. Maybe TRENT had one happy day and this is it.
I don't want you to leave me, Paul. I'll go through my address book and tell you about family after family. You 111 never not fit in again. we'll give you a new ideas it.y. I'll make you the most eagerly sought after young man in the East. And then I'I1 come into one of these homes one day---and you'll be there and I'll be presented to you. And I'll pretend to meet you for the first time and our friendship will be witnessed by my friends, our parents' friends. If it all happens under their noses, they can't judge me. They can't disparage you. I'll make you a guest in their houses. Ask me another name. I'd like to try for the shirt. PAUL kisses TRENT.
That's enough for today. PAUL takes his shoes and the address book and goes.
This is the way you must speak. Hear my accent. Hear my voice. Never say you're going horse back riding. You say You're going Riding. And don't say couch. Say sofa. And you say Bodd-ill. It's bottle. Say bottle of beer.
Bodd-ill a bee-ya.
Bottle of beer.
TRENT smiles at TESS but the smile is one of tight lipped stoicism.
We went through the address book letter by letter. Paul vanished by the L's. He took the address book with him. Well, he's already been in all your houses. Maybe I will meet him again. I sure would like to. TRENT stands up signalling an end to the conversation. HE turns off his computers.
His past? His real name?
I don't know anything about him. It was a rainy night in Boston. He was in a doorway. That's all.
He took stuff from you?
Besides the address book? He took my stereo and sport jacket and my word processor and my laser printer. And my skis. And my TV.
Will you press charges?
No.
It's a felony.
Why do they want to find him?
They say to help him. If there's a crime, the cops will get involved.
Look, we must keep in touch. We were friends for a brief bit in school. I mean we were really good friends.
Paul learned all that in three months!
Three months?
Three months! The chimes ring, signalling the start of the opera.
who would have thought it? Trent Conway, the Henry Higgins of our time. THE GROUP laughs and finishes their drinks as THE USHER unlocks the door to
Quick - what the hell is the story of this opera? FLAN adjusts his opera glasses. a
Boy meets girl. Boy loses girl. OUISA is distracted.
Paul must have looked at all those names and said I am Columbus. I am Magellan. I will sail into this new world. The camera comes in on OUISA as she remembers
I read somewhere that everybody on this planet is separated by only six other people. Six degrees of separation. Between us and everybody else on this planet. The President of the United States. A. gondolier in Venice. Fill in the names. I find that A.] tremendously comforting that we're so close and B.] like Chinese water torture that we're so close. Because you have to find the right six people to make the connection. It's not just big names. It's anyone. A native in a rain forest. A Tierra del Fuegan. An Eskimo. I am bound to everyone on this planet by a trail of six people. It's a profound thought. How Paul found us. How to find the man whose son he pretends to be. Or perhaps j& his son, although I doubt it. How every person is a new door, opening up into other worlds. Six degrees of separation between me and everyone else on this planet. But to find the right six people. TESS kisses HER MOTHER. OUISA puts out the light and THEY leave the room.
THE ACT ONE MUSIC OF PUCCINI'S TOSCA suddenly swells up and
SANDY and CONNIE  have leaned over from the next box.
No. No news.
He just vanished.
Nothing. All quiet. Thank god. THEY pass out of the box into
Yes! We are going to Rome. CONNIE gives OUISA a card with a name on it. OUISA reads the card and passes it to FLAN.
No! I don't know them. FLAN smiles when HE sees the card.
Always wanted to meet them! Of course we'l1 call. As soon as we get to Rome! What fun!
Rome is always remarkable but to see - Columns flash past. The blurring clears and we are moving
the Sistine Chapel like this!
To stand at the very top on scaffolding!
We were at the opera and ran into them and they gave us your address!
This is staggering! THEY step out, in great excitement, right onto
They restored it after all these years - FOUR ITALIAN WORKERS scrub away at the ceiling a few feet above them. They refer constantly to banks of computers operated by TWO JAPANESE.
scraped all this paint off it
and years of smoke and tourists and it's brand new!
The colors are vibrant!
Flan went for business but for me it was - THE OWNERS of this loft are a MAN, 40s, who is confined to a wheel chair, and his beautiful COMPANION, an elegant Japanese woman. THE TEN DINNER GUESTS are dressed all in black, except OUISA who has on a bright Chanel suit. SHE and FLAN have managed to capture stage center.
No. It's not important -
Well, the day we got back from Rome -
We stepped out of the taxi from the airport and
our doorman whom we tip very well at Christmas and any time he does something nice for us-- our doorman spits at my husband, J. Flanders Kittredge. I mean, spit at him! The DOORMAN - FRANK - good faithful loyal FRANK - holds the door open and spits at FLAN.
THE CROWD gasps. FLAN frowns at OUISA for telling this part.
Darling, they don't have to know every detail.
Your son! I know all about your son.
What about my son?
Not the little shit who lives here. The other son. The secret son. The negro son you deny.
The negro son?
The black son you make live in Central Park while you're gallivanting around Rome. The DOORMAN spits at FLAN again.
THE JAPANESE HOSTESS is interested.
No! The cops brought this young girl to us!
The cops called us up and we went down to the precinct again!
I want him dead. That's all I want.
OUISA leans forward at the dinner table.
The next chapter. THE PARTY is silenced.
My boy friend and I took a picnic into the park
and we met this guy and started singing and talking. RICK, a nice young guy in his mid-twenties, plays his guitar energetically, the THREE of them having a great time singing a cheery old rock song. PAUL is wearing the pink shirt and the khakis but looks pretty seedy. HE eats hungrily.
I was hallucinating from not eating-
If I told people back home that New York had trees and picnics, they'd swear I was lying. I love New York so much. Look at it! I can't get over it.
We're here from Utah.
Do they have any black people in Utah?
Maybe two.
I saw them once. Two black people.
Yes, the Mormons brought in two. THEY all laugh, enjoying each other, the day, the meeting.
We came here to be actors.
She won the all-state competition for comedy and drama.
My gosh! ELIZABETH stands up and declaims.
"The quality of mercy is not strained. It droppeth like the gentle rain from heaven.." SHE's not bad. But then SHE giggles and the Shakespearean effect crumbles.
And we study and we wait tables.
Because you have to have technique. ELIZABETH and RICK are very earnest.
Like the painters. Cezanne looked for the rules behind the spontaneity of Impressionism.
Cez - That's a painter?
We don't know anything about painting.
My dad loves painting. He has a Kandinsky but he loves Cezanne the most. He lives up there.
What?
He lives up there. Count six windows over. John Flanders Kittredge. His chums-call him Flan. I was the child of Flan's hippie days. His radical days. He went down South as a freedom marcher, to register black voters - his friends were killed. Met my mother. Registered her and married her in a fit of sentimental righteousness and knocked her up with me and came back here and abandoned her. Went to Harvard. He's now a fancy art dealer. Lives up there. Count six windows over. Won't see me. The new wife--the white wife-- The Louisa Kittredge Call Me Ouisa wife - the mother of the new children wife--
Your brothers and sisters?
They go to Andover and Exeter and Harvard and Yale. The awful thing is my father started out good. My mother says there is a good man inside s J. Flanders Kittredge.
He'll see you if he is that good. He can't forget you entirely.
I call him. He hangs up.
Go to his office -
He doesn't have an office. He works out of there. They won't even let me in the elevator.
Dress up as a messenger.
Say you have a masterpiece for him. "I got the Mona Lisa waitin' out in the truck."
I don't want to embarrass him. Look, this is so fucking tacky.
A lot. RICK and ELIZABETH touch each other's hands. PAUL I hope we can meet again.
Where do you live? PAUL looks around HIM and makes a hopeless grand gesture.
Live? I'm,home. PAUL picks up two plastic shopping bags which are filled with clothing.
You're not out on the streets?
You're such assholes. Where would I live? PAUL shrugs his shoulders and leaves. RICK and ELIZABETH look at each other then follow him down the path leading through the park to the carousel. THE CAROUSEL calliope plays merrily.
Stay with us.
We just have a railroad flat in a tenement -- PAUL looks at a bank of daffodils planted by the carousel. HE begins picking a bouquet of daffodils. RICK and ELIZABETH are being as persuasive as they can.
It's over a roller disco. The last of the roller discos but it's quiet by five AM and a great narrow space -
A railroad loft and we could give you a corner. The tub's in the kitchen but there's light in
And he did!
ELIZABETH composes herself. OUISA pours ELIZABETH a glass of water.
He stayed for a few weeks. He taught us so much. We even thought he was the reason for coming to New York. He opened up a new world for us. That's all anybody wants, isn't it? A new world? OUISA looks at FLAN.
This is the way you must speak. Hear my accent. Hear my voice. Never say you're going horse back riding. You say You're going Riding. And don't say Couch. Say Sofa. And you say bodd-ill. It's bottle. Say bottle of beer.
Bodd-ill a bee-ya.
Bottle of beer. And never be afraid of rich people. You know what they love? A fancy pot of jam. That's all. Get yourself a patron. That's what you need. You shouldn't be waiting tables. You're going to wake up one day and the temporary job you picked up to stay alive is going to be your full time life. ELIZABETH is struck by his advice and embraces PAUL gratefully.
ELIZABETH is more pulled together, sipping her drink of water. FLAN takes OUISA's hand.
I'll tell you all the parts I want to play. Vanya in Uncle Vanya.
Masha in Three Sisters.
I'd like a - ELIZABETH is on fire with happiness and unwittingly cuts off
No, Irina first. The young one who yearns for love.
I'd like a shot at -
Then Masha who loves.
I'd like a shot -
Then the oldest one, Olga, who never knows love! RICK'waits to see that ELIZABETH is through, then:
I'd like a shot at Laertes. I think it's a much better part. ELIZABETH gazes in a mirror that- SHE holds close to her face.
Do you think it'll hurt me?
What'll hurt you?
My resemblance to Liv Ullmann. PAUL runs into the loft.
He wrote me! I wrote him and he _ wrote me back! He's going to give me a thousand dollars! And that's just for starters! He sold a Cezanne to the Japanese and made millions and he can give me money without her knowing it. PAUL lets out a whoop and leaps up onto the bed with RICK and ELIZABETH in it and begins jumping up and down.
I knew it! PAUL goes to a corner which contains a single mattress on the floor and begins to pack his few things back in the plastic bags.
I'm moving out of here!
You can't!
No! RICK and ELIZABETH surround PAUL to make HIM stay. PAUL hugs THEM.
But I am going to give you the money to put on a showcase of any play you want and you'll be in it and agents will come see you and you'll be seen and you'll be started. And when you win your Oscars - both of you - you'll look in the camera and thank me - ELIZABETH loves the moment and weeps her acceptance speech.
I want to thank Paul Kittredge.
Thanks, Paul! THEY all hug each other and that's real.
One hitch. I'm going to meet him in Maine. He's up there visiting his parents in Dark Harbor. My grandparents whom I've never met. He's finally going to tell my grandparents about me. He's going to make up for lost time. He's going to give me money. I can go back home. Get my momma that beauty parlor she's wanted all her life. One problem. How am I going to get to Maine? The wife checks all the bills. He has to account for the money. She handles the purse strings. Where the hell am I going to get two hundred and fifty dollars to get to Maine?
How long would you need it for?
I'll be gone a week. But I could wire it back to you.
We could lend it to him for a week.
We can't. If something happens -
You're like his stepmother. These women holding on to all the purse strings.
No. We worked too hard to save that. PAUL comes out of the john. RICK - always laid back - is suddenly quite angry.
Paul. I'm sorry. We just can't.
Look. No problem. I understand.
I'll meet you both after work. If your father loves you, he'll get you the ticket up there.
He does. It'll work out. Hey. Posture. Stand up straight. Don't slump. Attitudes of defeat. ELIZABETH kisses PAUL and looks at sullen RICK and leaves.
She was one of those armies of young people who come to New York filled with dreams and end up on a treadmill working and working just to stay alive.
ELIZABETH begins hitting the machine to get her card back. ELIZABETH picks up the phone on the machine and calls the emergency number. ELIZABETH There's some mistake. It says my joint account - can you see the numbers on the screen - that's right. that's my name. And his name. Joint account. What do you mean? Closed? Who closed the account? Who took everything out of the account? Who did this! Give me my card back! THE GUY next in line nudges her.
FRANK, the DOORMAN, is having a snooze. ELIZABETH shakes him. HE wakes up terrified at the sight of this hysterical creature over HIM.
- people named Kittredge. This Kittredge guy has a black son he makes live in the park -
Mr. Kittredge has what?
His black son took money from me -
You have to be quiet
I want to get up to see them!
You'll have to call or write a letter -
They owe me money!
I'm here trying to get to meet people. I am stranded. Who do I know to go to? I want my money. I work tables. I work hard. A CAB pulls up. A POSH COUPLE steps out of the cab to go into 910 Fifth. THEY look at ELIZABETH.
"The quality of mercy is not strained?" Fuck you, quality of mercy. FRANK opens the door quickly. THE POSH COUPLE scoots in. ELIZABETH kicks the building.
- all over the building that I had abandoned some mistake of my past in Central Park! THE COUPLE gasps!
But it's too fantastic!
Can't you just see me marching down South for Freedom Now!
Yes. Yes, I can.
It was so embarrassing.
Horrible!
It wasn't so embarrassing.
I bet Flan loves being outraged. FLAN I don't!
You do! Flan loves getting into high dudgeon! His cheeks go all rosy! Look at his cheeks! Dudgeon becomes him. THEY all laugh as the WAITRESS puts down the plates of food.
To high dudgeon! THEY all toast. But OUISA has stopped laughing.
Hi! ELIZABETH puts on the light.
Where's the money?
- she understandably wanted to know.
No! Let me explain. Paul found some extra money of his own and he wanted to thank us for staying here! He would've treated you but you had to work or else we would've . We rented these tuxedos! Isn't it a gas! He's going to give us the money back! And then I'm going to take you to the Rainbow Room. That's where we went! I brought you matches!
Now did we get this table!
Stick with me, baby. I know the right name to drop.
And it's not that expensive for what you get. Well, it's not a bargain but it's
How an I going to explain to Elizabeth about the money? PAUL tastes the champagne. THE WAITER pours.
She'll have it back. With interest. Wonderful bouquet. Bouquet. That's what you call the taste of the wine. And I believe that wine from the even numbered years is generally the superior to the odd numbered years. Although it's just a theory - Cheers! Skol! Prosit!
You are just about the greatest - THE DANCE ORCHESTRA plays a salute to 1930's romance.
Do you want to dance?
Elizabeth has never seen anything l_4e here. I wish she was... Who do we dance with? THE ORCHESTRA segues into a tango. PAUL stands.
We're guys.
Every moment in life is a learning experience or what good is it? Right? Right?
Well, yes.
Then let this bunch of jerks see class.
FLAN nods for their dinner guests, ANDREW and JEANNIE.
They danced. That's right! High over New York City.
I swear nothing like this ever happened in Utah.
And, I'll tell you, nothing like that must have ever happened at the Rainbow Room because they asked us to leave. It was so funny. PAUL spins RICK round and round and the CAMERA spins with
You'll love the place. It's up so high.
We don't have any money -
Amigo! When will you learn! Money is one commodity you can always get. THE HANSOM CARRIAGE proceeds up to Central Park. RICK leans forward looking out the isinglass windows.
I'm going to have to explain to Elizabeth about the money and calm her. She gets so nervous
 Hey, stop that. Paul. Come on.
I was wondering if I could fuck you. RICK laughs. Then sees PAUL is serious.
I don't do things like that.
That's what makes it so nice. You don't.
- and he did and it was fantastic.
RICK lost in the nighttime park. RICK looks up and sees the STATUE OF THE HUSKY.
Didn't we come here for experience? Right? We can use this. Right? ELIZABETH lies on her stomach on the bed away from him.
ELIZABETH rolls a pencil back and forth on the desk. FLAN and OUISA watch sympathetically.
He rambled on for hours. His own father warned me Rick was a fool and I looked at Rick and knew his father was right.
Don't touch me!
ELIZABETH rubs her hands over her face as if trying to get the memory away. OUISA looks at FLAN and THE DETECTIVE.
He went on for a long time trying to get me just to look at him. I couldn't even do that.
But I didn't come here to do this or lose that or be this or do this to you. Not to you. Look at me? Elizabeth! What did I let him do to me?
Nobody did this but you.
Now the amazing part is
talk about six degrees
We were in the roller disco that night! ANDREW and JEANNIE's jaws drop.
Yes! There we were roller skating for heart disease or cancer -
It was illiteracy.
I hadn't skated in I hate to tell you how many
We came outside giddy and reeling
The body must have just landed there in a clump
Because the blood seeping out had not yet reached the gutter...
The blood just oozing out slowly towards the curb. FLAN and OUISA and another COUPLE, SANDY and CONNIE from the wedding, stop at the sight. They stare at the body that has slammed into the pavement. The body of RICK.
The boy had jumped from above.
We just missed it by minutes.
Perhaps we could have saved him - called an ambulance - but it was too late -
He could've landed on us! ANDREW and JEANNIE are appalled. No! OUISA frowns.
It's so funny you say that. Yesterday we walked through the park by Gracie Mansion
and it was cold and we saw police putting a jacket on a man sitting on a bench.
Only we got closer and it wasn't a jacket.
It was a body bag. A homeless person had frozen during the night.
Was it that cold?
Sometimes there are periods where you see death everywhere. FLAN waves to someone over there. THE WAITRESS brings coffees. OUISA looks straight ahead.
When this young lady told me the black kid was your son, it all seemed to come into place. What I'm saying is she'll press charges.
I want Paul dead. He took all our money. He took my life. Rick's dead! You bet your life I'll press charges.
We haven't seen him since that night.
Find him. We might have a case. a
How do we find him?
We'll trap him. I'll release it to the papers. I can call the New York Times. I have friends. They'll publish the story. Someone will see it. And turn him in. We'll find Paul.
Six degrees. Six degrees. OUISA looks at FLAN. FLAN is so secure.
t HE scans through the paper, then lets out a whoop and runs through the apartment to
NEW YORK TIMES article entitled: "Who Says New Yorkers Don't Have a Heart"
OUISA is making a breakfast drink at the blender. FLAN "Smart sophisticated tough New Yorkers such as J. Flanders Kittredge who opened their homes and pocket books to a young man learned yesterday they had been boondoggled by a confidence man now wanted by police - FLAN pounds the kitchen counter in glee. OUISA looks at him, askance.
I didn't see that piece.
We were in Aspen. THE CHIME signals the intermission's end.
I'll send you the clipping.
You could wall paper the Empire State Building with all the copies he made.
We'll meet right here at the next intermission- THEY return inside.
No.
Did you hear from the boy?
No.
Come for dinner with us after
We'd love to but can't!
So sorry! Have to work.
Black-tie auction - Sotheby's - FLAN leans in close to KITTY. Top secret.
We are bidding tonight on an Henri Matisse.
The nudes? The bathers? The dancers? THEY cut down a side aisle.
It's a second level Matisse -
but a Matisse -
Who are you buying it for? The Japanese? Germans? AN ORGAN suddenly begins playing a triumphant Bach cantata.
Not allowed to tell. OUISA turns to look up at the choir loft.
Then it's the Germans.
They'll go as high as -
Don't tell all the family secrets -
Well over 25 million.
Out of which you will keep -
Not that much in this new market.
Ugh. Bring back the 80s. I'll have to give most of it away, but the good part is it gives me a credibility in this new market. It's all out of whack. Everything's up. Everything's down. I mean, a David Fucking Hockney print sold for a hundred bucks fifteen years ago went for Thirty four thousand dollars! A print! A flower. You know Geoffrey. our South African - OUISA shushes FLAN. THEY have arrived at
The Matisse will be mine - for a few hours Then off to Tokyo Off to Saudi OUISA is on the speaker phone with TESS while she is dressing for the auction.
What do you have on?
I'm totally dolled up. The black. Have you seen it? I have to tell you the sign I saw today. Cruelty-free cosmetics. A store was selling cruelty-free cosmetics.
Mother, that is such a beautiful thing. Do you realize the agony cosmetic companies put rabbits through to test eye shadow?
Dearest, I know that. I'm only talking about the phrase. Cruelty-free cosmetics should take away all evidence of time and cellulite and--
Mother, I'm getting married.
OUISA picks up the receiver on the cordless phone. This is too important for 'a speaker phone.
I thought you were going to Afghanistan.
I am going to get married and then go to Afghanistan.
One country at a time. You are not getting married.
Immediately so deeply negative--
I know everyone you know and you are not marrying any of them.
The arrogance that you would assume you know everyone I know. The way you say it: I know everyone you know -
In the Background, FLAN shaves at the bathroom mirror.
Unless you met them in the last two days - you can't hold a secret.  Wait- I'm putting you on hold
No one ever calls on that number.
Wait. Hold on.
Mother!
Hello?
Hello?
Paul? We will cut back and forth between these two locations for the remainder of this scene. At times, the two will share the screen. During this scene OUISA walks throughout THE APARTMENT speaking on the cordless phone.
I saw the story in the paper. I didn't know the boy killed himself. He gave me the money. I didn't steal any -
Let me put you on hold. I'm talking to my child.
If you put me on hold, I'll be gone and you'll never hear from me again. OUISA pauses.
Mother! I -
You have to turn yourself in. The boy comaitted suicide. You stole the money. The girl is pressing charges. They're going to get you. Why not turn yourself in and you can get of f easier. You can strike a bargain. Learn when you're trapped. You're so brilliant. You have such promise. You need help.
Would you help me?
What would you want me to do?
Stay with you.
That's impossible-.
Why?
My husband feels you betrayed him.
Do you?
You were lunatic! And picking that drek off the street. Are you suicidal? Do you have AIDS? Are you infected?
I do not have it. It's a miracle. But I don't. Do you feel I betrayed you? If you do, I'll hang up and never bother you again -
Where have you been?
Travelling.
You're not in trouble? I mean, more trouble?
No, I only visited you. I didn't like the first people so much. They went out and just left me alone. I didn't like the doctor. He was too eager to please. And he left me alone. But you. You and your husband. We all stayed together.
What did you want from us?
Everlasting friendship.
Nobody has that.
You do.
What do you think we are?
You're going to tell me secrets? You're not what you appear to be? You have no secrets. Trent Conway told me what your kids have told him over the years.
What have the kids told him about us?
I don't tell that. I save that for blackmail.
Then perhaps I'd better hang up.
No! I went to a museum! I liked Toulouse-Lautrec!
As well you should.
I read the Andy Warhol Diaries.
Ahh, you've become an aesthete.
Are you laughing at me?
No. I read them too.
I read The Agony and the Ecstasy by Irving Stone about Michelangelo painting the Sistine Chapel.
You're ahead of me there.
Have you seen the Sistine Chapel?
Oh yes. Even gone to the top of it in a rickety elevator to watch the men clean it.
You've been to the top of the Sistine Chapel? PAUL leans into the phone, amazed, as the screen floods with the brightly colored ceiling of the
Absolutely. Stood right under the hand of God touching the hand of man.
Hit it. Hit it. It's only a fresco. OUISA looks up at the hand of God. SHE laughs and slaps the hand of God. PAUL smiles in wonderment as the SCREEN fills with color. But then WE're out of his imagination and see the squalid surroundings of his phone booth.
You slapped God's hand!
I slapped God's clean hand. And you know what they clean it with? All this technology? Q-tips and water. PAUL is thrilled by this bit of knowledge.
No!
Clean away the years of grime and soot and paint ovens. Q-tips and water changing the history of Western art. Vivid colors.
Take me to see it?
Take you to see it? Paul, they think you might have murdered someone! You stole money! 0 FLAN appears, needing help with his studs.
Honey, could you give me a hand with-- OUISA It's Paul. FLAN goes to the other phone.
I'll call that detective. The other phone line rings. FLAN picks it up.
Dad! We were cut off. I'm getting marr -
Darling, could you call back -
I'm getting married and going to Afghanistan -
We cannot talk about this now -
I'm going to ruin my life and get married and throw away everything you want me to be because it's the only way to hurt you! TESS hangs up. ANOTHER PHONE is picked up. It is at
THE DETECTIVE doesn't even get to say "Hello". FLAN I've got that kid on the line.
Find out where he is.
Who's there?
Look, why don't you cone here. Where are you? PAUL, pressed in the battered phone booth, doesn't want to be in this cold street with its brightly lit squalor. HE wants to be at OUISA's, but his fear wins out.
I come there and you'll have the cops waiting.
You have to trust us.
Why?
Because - we like you.
Where is he? PAUL, straining to hear, gets very paranoid.
Who's there?
I'm not here. It's Flan. FLAN groans impatiently. PAUL brightens. THE OPERATOR makes noises. PAUL drops a coin in the box.
Are you in tonight? I could come and make a feast for you.
We're going out now. But you could be here when we come back.
Are you nuts! Tell a crook we're going out. The house is empty.
Where are you going?
To Sotheby's. FLAN grabs the phone.
The key's under the mat! PAUL is as cheery as HE can be.
Hi! Can I come to Sotheby's? FLAN thrusts the phone back to OUISA.
I said hi to Flan.
That's wonderful! I'll come!
You can't.
Why? I was helpful last time -
Thank him - he was very help - OUISA hands FLAN the phone.
Paul? You were helpful getting me that money for the Cezanne. You impressed Geoffrey -
Really! I was thinking maybe that's what I should do is what you do - in art but making money out of art and meeting people and not working in an office -
You only see the glam side of it. There's a whole grotty side that -
I could learn the grotty -
You have to have art history. You have to have language. You have to have economics -
I'm fast. I could do it. Do your kids want to
No, it's not really a profession you hand down from generation to gen - what the hell at I talking career counselling to you! You embarrassed me in my building! You stole money. There is a warrant out for your arrest.' OUISA Don't hang up! Paul? Are you there? Paul! You made him hang up -
I'm here.
You are! Who are you? What's your real name?
If you let me stay with you, I'll tell you. That night was the happiest night I ever had. OUISA It was the happiest night he ever had.
Why?
You let me use all the parts of myself that night - OUISA opens the door into the DINING ROOM.
It was magical. That Salinger stuff - SHE turns on the chandelier in the DINING ROOM.
Graduation speech at Groton two years ago.
Your cooking -
Other people's recipes. Did you see Donald Harthleme's obituary? He said Collage was the art form of the 20th century.
Everything is somebody else's-
Not your children. Not your life. SHE walks around the empty dining room table.
Yes. You got me there. That is mine. It is no one else's.
You don't sound happy. SHE walks back into the LIVING ROOM.
There's so much you don't know. You are so. smart and so stupid -
Never say I'm stupid -
Have some flexibility! You're stupid not to recognize what you could be.
What could I be?
So much.
With you behind me?
Perhaps. You liked that night? I've thought since that you spent all your time laughing at us.
No.
That you had brought that awful hustling thing back to show us your contempt -
I was so happy. I wanted to add sex to it. Don't you do that? OUISA looks into the MASTER BEDROOM and goes in.
No.
I'll tell you my name.
Please?
It's Paul Poitier-Kittredge. It's a hyphenated name. SHE sits on her bed.
Paul? You need help. Go to the police. Turn yourself in. You'll be over it all the sooner. You can start.
Start what?
Your life.
Will you help me? OUISA stands up.
I will help you. But you have to go to the police and go to jail and -
Will you send me books and polaroids of you and cassettes? And letters?
Yes. OUISA walks rapidly down the HALL.
Will you visit me?
I will visit you.
And when you do, you'll wear your best clothes and knock em dead? SHE's in the LIVING ROOM.
I'll knock em dead. But you've got to be careful in prison. You have to use condoms.
I won't have sex in prison. I only have sex when I'm happy.
Go to the police.
Will you take me?
I'll give you the name of-the detective to see-
I'll be treated with care if you take me to the police. If they don't know you're special, they kill you.
I don't think they kill you. PAUL puts the phone receiver over his head in a sudden gesture of fear. Then HE returns the receiver to his ear.
Mrs. Louisa Kittredge, I am black.
I will deliver you to them with kindness and affection.
And I'll plead guilty and go to prison and serve a few months.
A few months tops.
Then I'll come out and work for you and learn -
We'll work that out.
I want to know now.
Yes. You'll work for us.
Learn all the trade. Not just the grotty part.
Top to bottom.
And live with you.
No.
Your kids are away.
You should have your own place.
You'll help me find a place?
We'll help you find a place.
I have no furniture.
We'll help you out. PAUL beams as HE becomes the PAUL from that night. His imagination is off and running. The lights, from wherever HE is, shine on his face and reflect on the broken glass of the booth.
I made a list of things I liked in the museum. Philadelphia Chippendale.
Believe it or not, we have two Philadelphia Chippendale chairs -
I'd rather have one nice piece than a room full of junk.
Quality. Always. You'll have all that. Philadelphia Chippendale.
All I have to do is go to the police.
Make it all history. Put it behind you.
Tonight.
It can't be tonight. I will take you tomorrow. We have an auction tonight at Sotheby's -
Bring me?
I can't. It's black tie.
I have black tie from a time I went to the Rainbow Room. Have you ever been to the Rainbow Room?
Yes.
What time do you have to be there?
Eight o'clock.
It's five thirty now. You could come get me now and take me to the police tonight and then go to Sotheby's--
We're going to drinks before at the Pierre.
Japanese?
Germans.
You're just like my father.
Which father?
Sidney!
Paul. He's not your father. And Flanders. is not your father. FLAN comes in to the living room, dressed.
Oh fuck. We have drinks with the Japanese at six- fifteen - Get off that fucking phone. Is it that kid? Get him out of our life! Get off that phone or I'll rip it out of the wall! OUISA Paul, I made a mistake. It is not the Germans. We will come right now and get you. Where are you? Tell me? I'll take you to the police. They will treat you with dignity.
I'm in the lobby of the Waverly movie theater on Sixth Avenue and Third Street.
We'll be there in half an hour.
I'll give you fifteen minutes grace time.
We'll be there. Paul. We love you.
Ouisa., I love you. Ouisa Kittredge. Hey? Bring a pink shirt.
We'll have a wonderful life. SHE hangs up and looks at FLAN.
We can skip the shmoozing. Pick the boy up, take him to the police and be at Sotheby's before eight.
t The story ended there...
It did not! Clearly OUISA is as disturbed by the telling of the events as FLAN is energized.
There are so many other people here tonight. We didn't mean to take up so much MRS. BANNISTER slams her napkin down.
No! It's my supper and I command you to sing!
We called our new best friend, the detective.
We told them Paul was at the Waverly theater. FLAN Sixth Avenue and Third Street. The lobby.
But we had promised Paul that we would bring him to the police. We told the police he was special.
Well, Ouisa did.
The detective said he'd honor our promise.
We skipped the cocktails
But we didn't count on
Traffic traffic traffic FLAN gets out of the car and looks ahead in this din of honking horns.
The Kandinsky is painted on both sides. DUISA is startled. THE COP slams the car door on PAUL.
Paul? Officer? Let me go with you - I promised I'd take him!
Lady. Out of the way -- FLAN takes OUISA's-arm.
We have to do soaething!
There's nothing more you can do -
What could we do? We tried.
went to the precinct.
He's transferred.
Since yesterday? He's been handling this
He's transferred -
This is about an arrest made yesterday at the Waverly Movie theater - THE CLERK checks the records.
This precinct didn't do any business at the Waverly Theater.
I didn't imagine it -
I'm not saying you did.
Could you find out which precinct - THE CLERK looks through the book.
The name?
Poitier. He's a young black man. Or maybe Kittredge. I don't know the exact name -
Are you family?
Not exactly. But the detective promised me yesterday that I could go with the young man when he was arraigned to let them know he was special.
We have no record of it. Some other precinct must have made the arrest. It sounds like your special friend was wanted for something else.
Like what?
Lady, how can I help you? You don't even know your friend's name.
We can find anybody - Six degrees THE CLERK closes the book.
We weren't family. We didn't know Paul's name.
I went to the District Attorney's office. we weren't family. We didn't know Paul's name.
I called the Criminal Courts. I wasn't family. I didn't know Paul's name.
You see, I read today that a young man committed suicide in Riker's Island. Tied a shirt around his neck and hanged himself. Was it the pink shirt? This burst of color? The pink shirt. Was it Paul? We never found out who he was.
I'm sure it's not him.
Yes. I agree. Isn't it amazing.
He'll be back. We haven't heard the last of him. The imagination. He'll find a way. Could we talk about something else? Our guest of honor tonight- it's such a pleasure to meet you- But.THE GUEST OF HONOR FROM THE UN leans forward.
He wanted to be us. Everything we are in the world, this paltry thing--our life--he wanted it. He stabbed himself to get into our lives. He envied us. We're not enough to be envied.
Like the papers said. We have hearts.
Having a heart is not the point. We were hardly taken in. We believed him -- for a few hours. He did more for us in a few hours than our children ever did. He wanted to be your child. Don't let that go. He sat out in that park and said that man is my father. He's in trouble and we don't know how to help him.
Help him? He could've killed me. And you. THE GUESTS agree.
You were attracted to him -
Cut me out of that pathology! You are on your own -
Attracted by youth and his talent and the embarrassing prospect of being in the movie version of Cats. Did you put that in your Times piece? And we turn him into anecdote to dine out on. Like this. As we are right now. But it was an experience. I will not turn him into an anecdote. How do we fit what happened to us into life without turning it into an anecdote with no teeth and a punch line we'll mouth over and over for years to come. "Tell the story about the imposter who came into our lives---" "That reminds me of the time this boy--". And we become these human juke boxes spilling out these anecdotes. But it was an experience. How do we keep the experience? OUISA looks around the dinner table. THE GUESTS have decided to start on their dinners.
What are you saying, darling? OUISA looks at FLAN clinically. FLAN frowns and turns back to his dinner partner brightly.
Cezanne would leave blank spaces in his canvasses if he couldn't account for the brush stroke, give a reason for the color.
Then I am a collage of unaccounted-for brush strokes. I an all random. OUISA stands up from the dinner table. Her chair scrapes. There is an embarrassed rush. MRS. BANNISTER Sit down. OUISA leaves the dinner table.
What kind of behavior is -
God, Flan, how much of your life can you account for? THE ELEVATOR DOOR opens.
Do you realize how important this woman is! SHE steps in the elevator. FLAN follows.
Are you drunk? What are you unhappy about? The Cezanne sale vent through. The Matisse went through. We are rich. Geoffrey's rich. Next month there's a Bonnard and after that -
These are the times I would take a knife and dig out your heart. Answer me? How much of your -
- life can I account for! All! I am a gambler! OUISA smiles at the simplicity of her realization.
We're a terrible match. OUISA steps out onto
She is a very important woman. I am hoping to do business! Did you see the paintings on her walls! She might want to sell! She FLAN glares at HER and turns back into the lobby and returns to the party. OUSIA moves to follow FLAN, then walks up PARK AVENUE, lost, agitated, unsure. OUISA walks on, remembering
OUISA gasps when SHE looks in a SHOP WINDOW
