How do you distinguish yourself in a population of people who all got 1600 on their SAT's?
I didn't know they take SAT's in China.
I wasn't talking about China anymore, I was talking about here.
You got 1600?
You can sing in an a Capella group.
Does that mean that you actually got nothing wrong?
Or you row crew or you invent a 25 dollar PC.
Or you get into a final club.
Or you get into a final club, exactly.
I like guys who row crew.
Have you ever tried?
I'm trying now.
To row crew?
To get into a final club. To row crew? No. Are you, like--whatever--crazy?
Sometimes, Mark-seriously-YOU say two things at once and I'm not sure which one we're talking about.
But you've seen guys who row crew, right?
No.
Okay, well.. they're bigger than me. They're world class athletes. And a second ago you said you like guys who row crew so I assumed you'd met one.
I guess I meant I liked the idea of it. The way a girl likes cowboys.
The Phoenix is good.
This is a new topic?
It's the same topic.
We're still talking about the finals clubs?
Would you rather talk about something else?
It's just that since the beginning of the conversation about finals clubs I think I may have had a birthday.
We can change the subject.
 There are more people in China with genius IQ's than the entire population of--
It's about exclusivity.
.....what is?
The final clubs. And that's how you distinguish yourself. The Phoenix is the most diverse. The Fly Club, Roosevelt punched the Porc.
Which one?
The Porcellian, the Porc, it's the best of the best.
I actually meant which Roosevelt.
Theodore.
Okay, well, which is the easiest one to get into?
Hm.
What?
why would you ask me that?
I was just asking.
They're all hard to get into. My friend Eduardo made $300,000 betting on oil futures last summer and he won't get in. Money or the ability to make it doesn't impress anybody around here. Everybody can do that.
He made $300,000 in a summer?
He likes meteorology.
You said it was oil futures.
If you can predict the weather you can predict the price of heating oil. You asked me that because you think the final club that's easiest to get into is the one where I'll have the best chance,
You asked me which one was the easiest to get into because you think that's where I have the best chance.
The one that's easiest to get into would be the one where anybody had the best chance.
I just think you asked--the placement of where you asked the question--
I was honestly just asking. Okay? I was asking just to ask. Mark, I'm not speaking in code.
Erica--
You're obsessed with the finals clubs. You have finals clubs OCD and you need to see someone about this who'll prescribe some sort of medication. You don't care if side effects may include blindness, okay, just do it.
Final clubs. Not finals clubs and there's a difference between being obsessed and being motivated.
Yes there is.
Well you do--that was cryptic--so you do speak in code.
I didn't mean to be cryptic.
I'm saving I need to do something substantial in order to get the attention of the clubs.
Why?
Because they're exclusive.
You think Teddy Roosevelt got elected president because he was a member of the Phoenix Club?
He was a member of the Porcellian and yes I do.
Maybe he sang in an a Capella group.
I want to be straight forward and tell you that I think you should be a lot more supportive. If I get in I'll be taking you to the parties and you'll be meeting people that you wouldn't normally get to meet.
You're my girlfriend.
okay, well I want to be straight forward and tell you that I'm not anymore.
I'm not your girlfriend anymore,
Is this a joke?
No, I'm sorry, it's not.
You're breaking up with me?
You're going to introduce me to people I wouldn't normally get to meet? What the fuck is that supposed to mean?
Take it easy.
What was it supposed to mean?
It was--Erica, the reason we're able to sit here and drink is that you used to sleep with the door guy.
The door guy's name is Bobby. I haven't slept with the door guy, the door guy's a friend of mine. He's a perfectly good class of people and what part of Long Island are you from--England?
I'm from Westchester.
I'm going back to my dorm.
Wait, wait, thisi reel?
Yes.
I apologize, okay? Siddown.
I'm going back to my dorm, I have to study.
Yeah.
I'm sorry and I mean it..
I appreciate that but--
Come on.
---I have to study.
You don't have to study. Let's just talk.
I can't..
Why?
Because it's exhausting. Going out with you is like dating a stairmaster.
All I meant is that you go to B.U. and so you're not likely to--I wasn't making a comment on your parents--I was saying you go to B.U.
I have to go study.
You don't have to study.
How do you know I don't have to study?!
Because you go to B.U.! ERICA stares at him...
I'm sorry you're not sufficiently impressed with my education.
And I'm sorry T don't have a rowboat.
I think we should just be friends.
I don't need friends.
I was being polite, I had no intention being friends with you.
You're really leaving. ERICA takes MARK's hand and looks at him tenderly..
 And you're never getting into a final club. Along with the MUSIC, we slowly push in on MARK. A fuse has just been lit.
Fall. Semester, 2008
The vocals from the Paul Young song come in--
He begins blogging.
Erica Albright's a bitch. You think that's because her family changed their name from Albrecht or do you think it's because all B.U, girls are bitches? He takes a good gulp of his drink. We see the words we're hearing filling up his computer screen--
Folks, for the record, she may look like a 34D but she's getting all kinds of help from our friends at Victoria's Secret, She's a 348, as in barely anything there.. False advertising.
in back of MARK, sitting on the bed and hitting a bong, is
The truth is she has a nice face. I need to think of something to help me take my mind off her. Easy enough, except I need an idea. MARK has moved his mouse to an icon on his desktop labeled "Kirkland Facebook". He clicks and opens it. A menu of photos appear. He blogs again.
I'm a little intoxicated, I'm not gonna lie. So what if it's not even 10PM and it's a Tuesday night? The Kirkland Facebook is open on my desktop and some of these people have pretty horrendous f acebook-pics. Billy Olson's sitting here and had the idea of putting some of these girls' faces next to pictures of farm animals and have people vote on who's hotter. .
We start on a good looking STUDENT fixing his tie in the bathroom mirror. He walks out of the bathroom and into the main area where he's immediately tossed a bottle of champagne by a similarly dressed STUDENT. We see that there are a couple of dozen other guys around. Our guy takes the champagne bottle and sticks it on the bar, which is being stocked by two sexy FEMALE uniformed BARTENDERS. Our guy walks past P. DJ's table where the DJ is setting up his incredibly high-end equipment. Our guy trots down a set of mahogany and red-carpet stairs, opens a heavy door and looks out to the sidewalk.
A BOUNCER in a tuxedo is standing by a velvet rope which is holding back three dozen STUDENTS. The students are mostly women and the women are all dressed to catch a man. Over all this, we HEAR MARK CONTINUING
Good call, Mr. Olson! I think he's on to something.
year it's on. I'm not gonna do the farm animals but I like the idea of comparing two people together. It gives the whole thing a very Turing feel since people's ratings of the pictures will be more implicit than, say, choosing a number to represent each person's hotness like they do on hotornot.com. The first thing we're going to need is a lot of pictures. Unfortunately, Harvard doesn't keep a public centralized facebook so I'm going to have to get all the images from the individual houses that people are in. Let the hacking begin.
First u is Kirkland. They keep everything open and allow indexes in their Apache configuration, so a little NGET magic is all that's necessary to download the entire Kirkland facebook. Kids' stuff. On the computer screen, we've been seeing him download picture after picture of Harvard girls.
Next is Elliot. They're also open but with no indexes on Apache. I can run an empty search and it returns all of the images in the database in a single page. Then I can save the page and Mozilla will save all the images for me. Excellent. Moving right along. Flying by at super-speed on MARR's computer screen have been commands and images that the rest of us can't possibly understand.
Lowell has some security. They require a username/password combo and I'm going to go ahead and say they don't have access to main faa user database, so they have no way of--
Adams has no security but limits the
For Quincy I'm going to have to get a matching name and student I.D. combo and I'm in. All I have to--
Dunster is intense. Not only is there no public directory but there's no--
Leverett is a little better. It's slightly obnoxious that they only let you view one picture at a time and I'm not
--definitely necessary to break out the emacs and modify that pert script.
And now anew guy walks into Mark's room. This is EDUARDO SAVERIN--a sweet looking Brazilian sophomore who almost always wears a three--piece suit.
What's going on?
Perfect timing. Eduardo's here and he's going to have the key ingredient.
Mark. What's going on?
Wardo.
Did you and Erica split up?
How did you know that?
It's on your blog.
Oh yeah.
Are you alright?
I need you.
I'm here for you.
No, I need the algorithm you used for the oil futures.
Are you okay?
We're ranking girls.
Why?
To watch the bottom 200's heads explode.
What's the algozithm?
One of the oldest, one of the most exclusive clubs--not just at Harvard but in the world--and I want to welcome you to this year-'s first--
1 + 10 / 400
Give each.girl a.-base rating of 1400. At any time `Girl All has a rating R-a and "Girl B" has a rating R-b.
When any two girls are matched up there' an expectation of which will win based on their current rating.
 Those expectations are expressed this way.
Let's write it.
CUT TO t
MARK makes a few last key strokes and a new website comes up on the screen .
MARK makes a few more keystrokes and two pictures of two Harvard girls come up on the screen. After a moment...
The one on the left. MARK clicks the girl on the left and another picture takes the place of the girl on the right.
On the right. MARY clicks the girl on the right while another picture takes the place of the girl on the left.
Still the right.
It works.
Who should we send it to first?
Dwyer.
Neal.
Who are you gonna send it to? MARK's made the link to e-mail and hits send.
Just a Couple of people. The question is, who are they gonna send it to?
 Check this out..
The one on the left.
On the right.
The right.
She's my roommate.
She will cut herself open if she gets a low score on this, can somebody figure out how to bust the curve?
On the left.
On the right.
A girl is at her computer and in the background is another girl we can't quite make out who's taking notes from a , i extbook.
Oh shit,  Albright? We rack focus to the studying girl and see that it's ERICA.
He blogged about you. ERICA looks at her for a moment, then gets up to look at her
No you don't want to read it. ERICA ignores her roommate, We see her mortification as she reads, and at that moment THREE GUYS appear in her open doorway- one of them wearing a padded bra over his Boston University sweatshirt.
Erica. They lift, separate and support. Thanks for the tip.
Get the fuck out, The three guys go on their drunken way as we SLOWLY PUSH IN on ERICA who's frozen in her humiliation and then
The left!
The right!
The left!
The right!
Mark?
 Hello?
You're saying it's unusual for 4 in the morning?
I'm saying it. would be unusual for Mother's Day.
Alright. COX hangs up the phone.
I have to go in.
What's going on?
Harvard's computer system's about to crash.
Then an icon comes up telling him he's no longer connected to the internet. Everyone is frozen silent for a moment...
You don't think--
I do,
Go see if it's everybody. DUSTIN, CHRIS and EDUARDO head out of the room. MARX drains what's left of the vodka and lights a cigarette as the guys start coming back in the room.
Mine's down.
My computer's' frozen.
I mean ...unless it's a coincidence I think this is-Us,
It's not a coincidence.
The room is glass on two sides and through the windows we can see the behemoths of Silicon valley--Oracle, SunMicrosystems, Google, etc. GRETCHEN is taking MARK's deposition.
So you were called in front of the Ad Board.
That's not what happened.
You weren't called in front of the Administrative Board?
No, back, I mean--That's--back at the bar with Erica Albright. She said all that? That I said that stuff to her?
i was reading from the transcript of her
why would you even need to depose her?
That's really for us to--
You think if I know she can make me look like a. jerk I'll be more likely--
--to settle, right?
Why don't we stretch our legs a minute, can we do that? It's been almost three hours and frankly you did spend an awful lot of time embarrassing Mr. Zuckerberg with the girl's testimony in the bar.
I'm not embarrassed, it's just that she made a lot of that up.
She was under oath.
Then I guess that would be the first time somebody's lied under oath. People are stretching and getting coffee and talking quietly. MARK stays in his seat. MARYLIN, the attractive second year associate who's on Mark's legal team is still sitting too... about four seats down from Mark.
Eight percent of the male population of Harvard had been on it within two hours?
What?
Power 10 in 2! In 2!
They had open water after a hundred meters. I don't think we're gonna catch 'em today. And we PULL BACK TO REVEAL that there's a fourth boat which is already five boat, ngths ahead of the other three.
The fourth boat is being crewed by CAMERON and TYLER WINKLEVOSS----identical twins who stepped out of an ad for Abercrombie and Fitch. They know that the others aren't in their class and even though they're highly competitive athletes, they don't like showing anyone up, least of all their teammates.
Is there anyway to make this a fair fight?
We could jump out and swim.
I think we'd have to jump out and drown.
I'm not willing to do that.
What are we at three-quarter power? Let's drop down to a half.
Or you could row forward and I could row backward.
I'd kick your ass.
We're genetically identical, so biology and mathematics says we'd stay in one place not allowing for the current or the wind.
Just row the boat.
And the WINI{LEVOSS twins kick into full gear and open up an even wider lead as we.
What's up?
You guys hear about this?
What?
Two nights ago a sophomore at Kirkland crashed the computers.
Which computers?
All of them. Be crashed the whole system. TYLER picks up a copy-of the Crimson and begins reading while his brother and DIVYA keep talking.
How?
He set up a website where you vote on the hotness of female Harvard undergrads. What were we doing that none of us heard about this?
I don't know. Rowing, going to class, studying? How much activity was there on this thing that he crashed the--
Cam, this guy hacked into the facebooks of seven houses in two hours. He set up the whole site in one night while he was drunk.
22,000 hits?
Yeah.
How do you know he was du- - - _
He was blogging simultaneously. Divya?
I'm way ahead of you.
This is our guy.
we' .l.]. be back and forth between the two deposition rooms a lot,
 Cameron Winklevoss. W-I-N-K-L-E-VWO-S-S. Cameron's spelled the usual way.
 Tyler. Winklevoss. Tyler's spelled the usual way and my last name is the same as my brother's.
Mr. Zuckerberg, this is an Administrative Board hearing.
You're being accused of intentionally breaching security, violating copyrights and violating individual privacy by creating the website, WWW.FACEMASH.COM. You're also charged with being in violation of the university's policy on distribution of digitized images. Before we begin with our questioning you're allowed to make a statement. Would you like to do so?
Yes.
I don't understand.
Which part?
You believe you deserve recognition?
I pointed-out some pretty gaping holes in your system.
Excuse me, may I?
Yes.
Mr. Zuckerberg, I'm in charge of security for all computers on the Harvard system. I can assure you of its sophistication and in fact it was that level of sophistication that led us to you in less four hours.
Four hours?
Yes sir.
That would be impressive except the algorithm I used was written on my dorm room window. Keep up the great work.
Well?
Six months academic probation. They walk out onto--
It could have been worse.
No it couldn't. They made me apologize.
To who?
To them. Over and over.
It's alright.
No.
It's okay. You're fine.
Maybe, but at least everybody knows you now.
So let's look at a sample problem: Suppose we're given a computer with a 16- bit virtual address and a page size of 256 bytes. A GIRL scribbles something on a piece of paper. Then hands it to the student next to her and nods that it should be passed over to MARK. While that's happening--
The system uses one-level page tables, which start at address 0x0400. Maybe you want to have DMA. on your 16-bit system, who knows? The first few pages are reserved for hardware flags, etc. MARK opens the note., It reads "Asshole". He looks over and sees a couple of GIRLS looking at him with contempt.
Assume page table entries have eight status bits. MARK closes his laptop, gets up and starts to head out of the hall.
The eight status bits would be--
Are you Mark?
Yeah.
I'm Cameron winklevoss.
Tyler Winklevoss.
Good.
That's funny.
We've never heard that before.
Did I insult your girlfriends? What can I do for you?
No, you didn't insult our girl--
We should do that.
Yeah.
No, we have an idea we want to talk to you about. Do you have a minute?
We are.
What do you do?
We row crew.
 Yeah, I've got a minute.
You ever been in the Porcellian?
No.
We can't take you past the living room but we can sit here and talk.
H i.. MARK is stealing a glance around the room...
Mark? This is Divya Narendra, our partner.
Hi.
We were really impressed with Facemash and then we checked you out and you also built CourseMatch. MARK is looking at the framed black and white group pictures on the wall. of old Porcellian classes. He sees a pretty co-ed on the couch with her legs stretched over her boyfriend while they study.
Mark?
Yeah .
CourseMatch. You go online, you get to see what courses your friends are taking?
Yeah.
And you invented something in high school.
An app for an MP3 player that recognizes your taste in music.
Anybody try to buy it?
Microsoft.
How much did they pay?
I didn't sell it. I uploaded it for free.
MARK gives a short shrug that says both "I don't know" and "Fuck you" at the same time.
3n,
Well we've been working for a while on an idea. It's called HarvardConnecti.on. You create your own page, Picture, bio, interests, friends.
People can see your bio and request to be
Yeah. How's this different from MySpace or Friendster?
How?
Yeah.
Harvard-dot-E--D-U.
Harvard.edu. The most prestigious e-mail address in the country.
This site would be based on the idea that girls want to meet guys who go to Harvard. The difference between what we're talking about and MySpace,
--is exclusivity,
We want you to be an equal partner. Our first programmer graduated and went to work at Google. Our second programmer just got overwhelmed with school work. We want you to write the code and build the site and we'll provide---
I'm in.
--the money. What?
I'm in.
"I'm in"?, that's what you said?
It was three or four years ago, I don't know what I said.
When did you come to Eduardo?
I don't understand that question.
Do you remember answering in the affirmative?
The affirmative?
I'm asking when you came to Eduardo with the idea for Facebook.
It was called TheFacebook back then.
This doesn't need to be that difficult.
I'm in the middle of two different lawsuits.
Did you answer affirmatively? When Tyler and Cameron Winklevoss and Divya Narendra asked you to build HarvardConnection, did you say yes?
I said I'd help.
When did you approach Mr. Saverin with the idea for TheFacebook?
I wouldn't say I approached him.
Sy?
You can answer the question.
It was at a party at Alpha Epsilon Pi.
What's that?
The Jewish fraternity. It was Caribbean Night.
It's not that guys like me are generally attracted to Asian girls. It's that Asian girls are generally attracted to guys like me.
I'm developing an algorithm to define the connection between Jewish guys and Asian girls.
I don't think it's that complicated. They're hot, they're smart, they're not Jewish and they can't dance.
Mark's here. They see MARK come in and look around. EDUARDO waves him over...
I'll be back in a minute. EDUARDO joins MARK in the back of the room and they take up a spot next to a bay window that's covered on the outside with ice.
I think I've come up with something.
Hang on, I've gotta tell you something you're not going to believe.
What?
I got punched by the Phoenix.
No. I mean it's just the first of the four step process but they slipped the invitation under my door tonight. T go to the first punch party tomorrow and if they like me--
Yeah.
--I get the second invitation and then the third and then who knows?
You got punched by the Phoenix.
Yeah.
You said you think you've come up with something. It seems like MARK's just made a small decision in his head,
Yeah. I think I've come up with something. Come outside.
It's 20 degrees outside.
I don't want to stare at that loop of Niagara Falls which has absolutely nothing to do with the Caribbean.
People came to Facemash in a stampede, right?
Yeah.
It wasn't because I put up pictures of hot girls. You can go anywhere on the internet and see pictures of hot girls.
Yeah.
It was because I put up pictures of girls that people knew. So if people Want to go on the internet and check out their friends, why can't I build a website that offers that? An online community of friends. Pictures, profiles, whatever you can click into, visit, browse around. All from the privacy of your dorm room. I'm not talking about a dating site. I'm talking about taking the entire social structure of college and putting it online.
I can't feel my legs.
I know, I'm totally pumped about this.
"It would be exclusive".
--it would be exclusive. You'd have to know the people on the site to get in. Like getting punched.
This is interesting.
Like our own Final club except not only can we get into this one, we're the president.
I told him I thought it sounded great. I mean it did, it was a great idea. There was no reason to hack, people were going to put their own pictures up. What they were interested in, what they were looking for, what classes they were taking... and people had the ability to invite their friends to join. Or put a different way, not invite their friends to join. In a world where social structure is very important, that was sexy.
We're gonna need a little start-up cash to rent'the servers and get it online.
That was why.
Did he offer business terms?
We'll split it 70-30. 70 for me and 30 for you for putting up a thousand dollars and handling everything on the business end. You'll be CFO.
And you said?
I said "Let's do it".
Okay. Did he add anything else?
Yes. He said---
It probably was a. diversity thing but so what?
Why do you think he said that?
Gretchen, what's the relevancy?
This is discovery, I'm trying to discover.
They're suggesting I was jealous of Eduardo and began a plan to screw him out of the company.
Were you?
Jealous of Eduardo?
Stop typing, we're off the record.
Ma'am, I know you've done your homework and so you know that money isn't a big part of my life, but at the moment I could buy Harvard University, take the Phoenix Club and turn it into my ping pong -room.
We recognize that you're a plaintiff in one suit involving Facebook and a witness in another.
Yes sir,
At any time in the three weeks prior to Mark telling you his idea, did he mention Tyler Winklevoss, Cameron Winklevoss, Divya Narendra or HarvardConnection?
Yes. He said they'd asked him to work on their site but that he'd looked at what they had and decided it wasn't worth his time. Uhh, he said even his most pathetic friends knew more about getting people interested in a website than these guys.
"These guys" meaning my clients.
Yes. He resented--Mark resented that they- --that your clients, probably thought he would jump at the chance to rehabilitate his image after the Facemash thing but Mark didn't want to rehabilitate anything. With Facemash he'd beaten the Harvard computers, he'd beaten the Ad Board and he made the girls mad. Facemash did what he wanted it to do. MARK kind of nods a little to himself. It should be noted that these depositions have an extra element of dish ort as everything is being said within a few feet of the peop" being talked about.
Were you aware that while Mr. Zuckerberg was building TheFacebook he was also communicating with the plaintiffs?
Not at the time I wasn't. I am now.
Were you aware that while Mr. Zuckerberg was building TheFacebook, he was leading the plaintiffs to believe he was building Harvard Connection?
I have some problems with that question.
No I wasn't. MUSIC kicks in that will tie this next section together as we
"I read over all the stuff you sent me re Harvard Connection and it seems like it shouldn't take too long to implement, so we can talk about it after I get all the basic functionality up tomorrow night."
Mark Zuckerberg to Cameron Winklevoss. December 1, 2003. "Sorry I was unreachable tonight. I just got about three of your missed. calls. I was working on a problem set for my systems class." CAMERON and TYLER are looking blankly at MARK who's giving them a casual "I'm not scared.of'you" look and we
Mark Zuckerberg to Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss. December 10, 2003. "This week has been pretty busy thus far with classes and work so I think it's probably best to postpone the meeting."
Tell him okay but we've gotta make sure we meet before we all head off for break.
I need a dedicated Linux box running Apache webserver with a mySQL backend. It's gonna cost a little more money.
How much more?
Two-hundred more.
Do we need it?
To handle the traffic.
Do it.
I already did.
Hey, guess what?  I made the second cut.
Good job. You should be proud of that right there, don't worry if you don't make it any further.
I'll get outa,here.
I've basically been in the lab this whole time and also..."
As the plaque reads, this is John Harvard, founder of Harvard University in 1638. It's also called The Statue of Three Lies. What are the three lies?
Mr. Dowd,
The three lies--
Take your pants off.
I know.
Mr. Saverin.
1) Harvard was founded in 1636, not 1638. 2) Harvard wasn't founded by John Harvard and 3) That's not John Harvard.
who is it?
A friend of the sculptor, Daniel. Chester-
You can?-.-tpi your shirt on. And as another kid simply falls to his hands and knees and throws up, we
39 days after Mr. Zuokerberg's initial meeting with my clients and he still hadn't completed work on HarvardConnection. But on January 11,
To the best of your knowledge, had he even begun work on HarvardConnection?
Not to my knowledge.
what in the hell is this?
What?
This is the first time he mentioned any problem?
Yes it was.
You'd sent 39 e-mails to Mr. Zuckerberg and received 13 return e-mails and this was the first time--
He had 42 days to study our system and get out ahead on---
Do you see any of your code on Facebook?
Sy?
Did I use any of your code?
You used our whole fuckin' idea!
Gentlemen.
Match-dot-com for Harvard guys?
Can I continue with my deposition?
You know you really don't need a damn forensic team to get to the bottom of this. If you guys were the inventors of Facebook you'd have invented Facebook.
I'm just gonna stand over your shoulder while you write is a check.
No shit.
Mark?
And then another until he gets to his floor. He sprints down his hall toward his dorm room and barely notices EDUARDO leaning against the door.
We were supposed to meet at 9. MARK is searching the pockets of his shorts for his keys.
Have you slept yet? MARK opens the door and they go into his suite--
I have to add a feature.
What are you adding?
MARK's in his own world as he sits at the computer and calls up theFacebook. The home page fills the screen.
It's clean and simple. No flashing lights. The CAMERA surveys the screen as MARK slips through some functions to show EDUARDO and we see things that are now familiar--A photo, sex, a profile, a list of attributes, a poke application, etc. MARK But watch. MARK's called up a the Emacs program and quickly writes out several lines of code...
What'd you write?. MARK goes back to the profile page. There's a new area to be filled in...
"Relationship Status", "Interested In".
--meet a girl.
--get laid. Yes.
Really?
It's ready.
It's ready?
Yeah.
Right now?
It's ready, that was it. And here's the masthead, MARK hits another couple of keystrokes and the website's masthead comes up.
You made a masthead.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You have no idea how much that's going to mean to my father.
Sure I do.
Right now. Get your laptop out.
Why do we need my laptop?
Because you've got e-mails for everyone at the Phoenix.
It's not Spam.
I didn't mean Spam, it's not Spam, it's
If we send it to our friends it'll just bounce around the computer lab,
I haven't gotten in yet.
These guys know people and these guys know girls. I need their e-mails.
Let's start with the president.
"Jabberwockl2@Harvard E-D-U."
Like the Lewis Carrol?
Yeah. MARK opens up an e-mail and is writing a short message, then includes a link to the site--
These guys.
I know,
Think they're literary geniuses because the world's most obvious Lewis Carroll reference is in their--
They're not so bad.
I'm just saying.
You're right.
The site's live.
Mark? MARK doesn't hear him. We just see MARK's head from the back and it's ever so slightly bobbing back and forth...
When did the Crocodillos start covering the Backstreet Boys? What happened to Cole Porter and Irving Berlin?
It's a Valentine's theme. They're singing love songs.
Good point, 'cause Cole Porter and Irving Berlin never wrote any love songs,
Divya, what are you reading?
Seven different people spammed me the same link. We see DIVYA click his mouse on the link--
What is it?
 I--uh...I have to go. DIVYA shuts his laptop, grabs it off the table and starts to bolt out of the pub. His foot gets caught on a chair leg and he falls hard face-first to the floor.
Shit. He starts out again, then comes back for his coat, grabs it; starts out and falls down all over again. Finally he's got it together and flies out of the pub and we
Not now, we've got another 5000 meters.
Mark Zuckerberg stole our website. It's been live for over 36 hours.
 Ty, the lawyer's on the phone with dad.
 "Welcome to theFacebook, TheFacebook is an online directory that connects people through social networks. You must have a Harvard.edu address to register."
(off another copy of the
"As of yesterday evening, Zuckerberg said over 650 students had registered to use theFacebook.com. He said he anticipated that 900 students would have joined the site by this morning."
If I were a drug dealer I couldn't give free drugs to 650 people in one day.
And this kid doesn't have four friends.
 Guys, please, for just one second.
Because you went to Ohio State. But we'll take care of everything and we'll talk to you first thing in the morning. This is a
This is a good guy?
We don't know that he'.s not a good guy.
We know that he took our idea and stole it. We know that-he lied to. our faces for a month and a half-while he--
He didn't lie to our faces.
He never saw our. faces! Fine, he lied to our e-mail accounts and he got himself a 42-day head start because he knows what apparently you don't which is that getting there first is everythinal
I'm a competitive racer, Div, I don't think you need to school me on the importance of getting there first.
Yeah, well his in-house counsel, We're gonna send him everything and he'll look at it and if he thinks it's appropriate he'll send a cease and desist letter.
A cease and desist letter doesn't have any teeth.
You think we should hire lawyers and sue him?
I think we should hire lawyers and have them beat him senseless with a crescent wrench.
We don't have to do that.
That's right.
We can do it ourselves.
I'm six-five, 220-pounds and there are two of me.
And I'm saying let's Calm down until we know what we're talking about.
Just how much more information are you waiting for? We met with Mark three times, we exchanged 52 e-mails, we can prove that he looked at the code, he'd seen what Victor had already done and we talked at length about what we planned to do.
 It says "A Mark Zuckerberg Production".
On the home page?
On every page.
Hang on, 'cause I need a minute to let the classiness waft over me.
No.
--get something going in the paper so that people know-
What?
That this thing is in dispute.
We're not starting a knife fight in the Crimson and we're not suing anybody.
Why not? CAMERON wants-to answer the question but doesn't..
Why not?
 He'll say it's stupid.
Me?
Yeah.
Say it. Why not?
Because we're gentlemen of Harvard.
During the time when you say you had this idea, did you know that Cameron and Tyler carne from a family of means?
Did you know that his father was wealthy.
It's not important that you be sure why I'm asking you.
It's not important to you.
 Sy.
I had no idea whether they came from money or not.
In one of your e-mails to Mr. Narendra you reference Tate Winklevoss' consulting firm.
Tate Winklevoss founded the firm and its assets are in the hundreds of millions.
or roughly the amount I paid in income tax last year, go on.
You also knew that Cameron and Tyler were members of a Harvard final club called the Porcellian.
They made a point of pointing that out.
Excuse us for inviting you in.
Yes.
Let.me tell you why I'm asking. I'm wondering why, if you needed a thousand dollars to start up your project, you didn't ask my clients for it. They'd demonstrated to you an interest in this kind of thing so--
From that you're deducing that I didn't go to them because I didn't want them to know what I was working on? I went to my best friend for the money because he's who I wanted to be partners with because of our similar vision and his superior business skills. Eduardo was president of the Harvard Investors Association and he was my best friend.
Your best friend is suing you for 600- million dollars.
I hadn't heard, tell me more.
Eduardo, what happened after the initial launch?
I'm sorry, Sy, would you mind addressing him as Mr. Saverin?
They're best friends, Gretchen.
Not anymore.
We just went through this on the-- nevermind. Mr. Saverin, what happened after the initial--
It exploded.
Everyone on campus was using it. "Facebook me" was a common expression after two weeks.
And Mark?
Mark was the biggest thing on a campus that included 19 Nobel. Laureates, 15 Pulitzer Prize winners, two future Olympians and a movie star.
Who was the movie star?
No.
The lamps in Harvard Yard light the snow falling.
The seminal event for me was when he was in Harvard Square and picked up a copy of Popular Electronics Magazine that ha the MITS Altair Kit on the cover.
We'll hear the SPEAKER but we'll only get to see him in a slightly blurry image as our attention is on MARK and EDUARDO.
And it was a clear day, And I was up in my Radcliffe dorm. And he brought that up there and said, "Look, it's going to happen without us. We've got to do it now." And so I said..."Okay." He gets an appreciative LAUGH from the STUDENTS.
Now the startingof this industry was very humble indeed. The kit computer on the cover-of that magazine-- We HEAR a little muffled giggling coming from the row behind MARK and EDUARDO, MARK is too into the speech to notice but the giggling registers as a slight annoyance on EDUARDO's face.
--had an 8080 processor in it, and you had to assemble it yourself and it came with 256K of memory. EDUARDO hears the giggling again and turns around. In the row behind them and a few seats over are two beautiful Asian students.--ALICE and JENNY. They're a little overly made- up for a lecture. JENNY, the one sitting closest to EDUARDO, is wearing a short skirt with a white shirt: open one button too far down the front and we can see a hint of the red bra she's wearing underneath.
Didn't he make theFacebook? EDUARDO smiles a little ...this has just never happened--
Yeah. Both of us. It's mine and his. It's our--we're--yes.
There were a set of machines that came after that. The TRS-80, Apple II,
She said "Facebook me" and we can all have a drink later. Which is stunningly great for two reasons. One, she said "Facebook me". Right? And the other is that, you know--
They want to have drinks later.
Yes: Have you ever heard so many different good things packed into one ordinary-sized sentence? A group of guys hustle up to MARK and EDUARDO--
Excuse me. Mark?
Yeah.
I'm Stuart Singer. I'm in your O.S. lab.
Sure.
Awesome job with theFacebook.
Awesome job.
Thanks.
I'm Bob.
How you doin'.
You know, I could swear he was looking at you when he said the next Bill Gates could be right in this room.
I doubt it.
I showed up late, I don't even know who he was.
Oh shit, that makes sense. As MARK and EDUARDO walk on, we leave STUART, VIKRAM and BOB in the background---with STUART and VIKRAM admonishing BOB with--
It's time to monetize the thing.
Those Asian girls were cute. What were their names?
Did you hear what I said?
When?
I said it's time to monetize the site.
What does that mean?
I mean it's time for the website to generate revenue.
No I know what the word means. I'm asking how do you want to do it?
Advertising.
No. What were their names?
We've got 4000 members.
'Cause theFacebook is cool. If we start installing pop-ups for Mountain Dew it's
Well I wasn't thinking it would be Mountain Dew but at some point--and I'm speaking as the business end of the
We don't even know what it is yet. We don't know what it is, what it can be, what it will be. We know it's cool, that's a -priceless asset and we're not giving it up. EDUARDO is sitting at MARK's desk and he's seen something sitting on top of a pile of'books.,,
Mark, what is this?
What, EDUARDO holds up a letter that's on a lawyer's stationary.
This,
I think it's called a cease and desist letter. What were their names?
Who?
The girls. EDUARDO's speed reading the letter.
When did you get this?
About 10 days ago. Right after we launched the site.
Jesus Christ.
I liked th shorter one.
They're saying--the Winklevoss twins are saying you stole their idea.
I find that to be mildly annoying.
They find it to be property theft. Why--
--why didn't you show this to me?
It was addressed to me.
They're saying we stole theFacebook from Divya Narendra and the Wink
I know what it says.
What?
Please don't screw around with me now.
I'm not.
Look at me.
What are you, my mother?
The letter says we could face legal action.
No, it says I could face legal action.
It's from a lawyer, Mark. They must feel they have some grounds for--
The lawyer is their father's house counsel, I checked it out, they're not,
Do they have grounds?
Yes, the grounds are theFacebook is cool. and popular and sexy and HarvardConnection is lame. I didn't use any of their code, I didn't use anything. A guy who builds a really nice chair doesn.'t owe money to everyone who,,, ever built a chair. Th ey came to me with an idea, I had a better one.
Why didn't you show me the letter?
I didn't think. it was a big deal..
If there's' something wrong--if there's ever anything wrong--you can tell me. I'm the guy who can help.
Is there anything you need to tell me?
No,
What are we doing about this?
I went to a 3-L at Student Legal services and he told me to write them back.
What did you say?
I'd raised concerns before.
Bullshit./Not to us.
Yeah.
Let me re-phrase this. You sent my clients 32 e-mails. In the first 31, you didn't raise any concerns.
In the 32nd e-mail you raised concerns about the site's functionality. Were you leading them on for six weeks?
No.
Why hadn't you raised any of these--
I'm sorry?
It just started snowing.
Mr. Zuckerberg, do I have your full attention?
No.
What.
Do you think I deserve your full attention?
I had to swear an oath before we began the deposition phase and I don't want to get arrested for perjury so I have a legal obligation to say no.
Okay. "No" you don't think I deserve your attention.
I think if your clients want to stand on my shoulders and call themselves tall they have a right to give it a try. But there's no requirement that I enjoy being here listening to people lie. You have part of my attention--the minimum amount needed.
The rest of my attention is back at the offices of Facebook where my employees and I are doing things that no one in this room, including and especially your clients, are intellectually or creatively capable of doing. Did I adequately answer your condescending question? GAGE just looks casually at MARK. MARK doesn't meet his gaze, or the looks from DIVYA, TYLER and CAMERON...
Back at 2:30?
Good. Everyone gets np and we
And then one of the wooden stall doors flies open and EDUARDO is shoved in, followed by JENNY, who did the shoving. She's all over him as she presses him back against the divider. EDUARDO's hands are sliding under JENNY'S white shirt and finding the red bra when they hear a noise. Someone's gone into the next stall.
. Oh God.
Sorry. It'll just be a minute. Some girls are freshening up in there.
 Sweet. The guy goes off...
I'll be right back.
Where you going?
Erica? ERICA, from the opening scene, turns her head and looks up to see MARK. She's looking sexy for her Friday ni.ght on the town and the three guys she's with are studs. A few more friends of theirs are standing around at the edges of the booth.
I saw you from over there. I didn't know you came to this club a lot.
It's my first time.
Mine too. It's not bad. It's not. great. The music's kind of lame. Could I talk to you alone for a second?
I think I'm good right here.
okay. MARK is aware of everyone else around the booth.
No.
ThePacebook?
You called me a bitch on the internet, Mark.
I'm really sorry about that.
On the internet.
That's why I came over.
comparing women to farm animals?
I didn't end up doing that.
It didn't stop you from writing it. As if every thought that tumbles through your head is so clever it would be a crime for it not to be published. The internet's not written in pencil, Mark, it's written in ink and you published that Erica Albright was a bitch.
I don't want to.
Erica, is there a problem?
No, there's no problem.
I don't want to be rude to my fxiends, I should be talking to them.
Okay.
Hey Mark. A year from now you won't remember this conversation and you won't remember me.
I think you're wrong.
Well... listen, good luck with your video game. It was an honest mistake on ERICA's part but a kidney punch to
That was cool, you did good. You talked to her, that was the right thing to do.
 What?
We have to expand. And MARK heads out the door. EDUARDO watches MARK and then looks back at the girls and answers the un-asked question--
Is he mad about something?
We're expanding theFacebook to Yale and Columbia. Dustin, I want you to share. the coding work with me. Chris, you're going to be in charge. of publicity and outreach. You can start by getting a story about the expansion in the B.U. student newspaper.
They hate doing stories about Harvard.
Somebody at the newspaper will be a computer science major and they will have heard of me. Tell 'em Mark Zuckerberg will do 10 hours of free programming for theno .
Why do you want a story in the B.U.---
Because I do. Here's the business arrangement. Eduardo's CFO and owns 30% of the company, Dustin's Vice President and Head of Programming and his 5% of the company will come from my end. Chris is Director of Publicity and his compensation will depend on the amount of work he ends up doing. Any questions?
Who are the girls?
Jenny and Alice,
Is there anything we can do?
No. That's it. Yale and Columbia, let's go.
And Stanford.
What?
Stanford. Its time for them to see this in Palo Alto.
 You don't want any lunch?
You're welcome to some of my salad.
No thank you.
I know this must be hard.
who are you?
I'm Marylin Delpy, I introduced myself this morning.
I mean what do you do?
I'm a second year associate at the firm. My boss wanted me to sit in on the deposition phase. MARK nod--.
What are you doing?
Checking in to see how it's going in Bosnia.
Bosnia? MARK nods...
They don't have roads but they have Facebook? MARK nods..,
You really hate the Winklevoss twins, don't you.
I don't hate anybody.
He's expanding.
What?
He's expanding to Yale, Columbia and Stanford, it'll be in the Crimson tomorrow.
Yeah.
So that cease and Desist letter really scared the shit out of him, huh?
I want to hire a lawyer to file for injunctive relief and get this website taken down now!
Every minute it's up, Harvard Connection becomes less valuable, I want an injunction, I watt damages, punitive relief and I want him dead.
I want those things too!
Then why aren't we doing anything about it?! Because we're gentlemen of Harvard?!
Because you're not thinking about how it's going to look.
How's it going to look?
Like my brother and I are dressed in skeleton costumes chasing the Karate Kid around a high school gym.
He violated Massachusetts state law. Then when he goes to Connecticut, New York and California he'll have violated federal law. And by the way, he's violated Harvard law.
There's no such thing as Harvard Law.
Harvard Student Handbook. Every freshman is issued this book. Somewhere in here it
You think campus security is going to arrest him for copyright violation?
We're going to meet with the president.
You can't get a meeting with Larry Summers.
My brother and I pay tuition at this school, we carry a 3.9 GPA at this school, we've won trophies for this school and we'll be rowing in the Olympics for this school. I want a damn meeting with the-president of this school.
Why do you think?
You don't know my name, do you? AMY's wearing nothing but a Stanford sweatshirt and talking to a skinny 22 year-old guy who's lying on her futon. There's other evidence on the walls that we're at Stanford University. There are also pieces of AMY'S clothing strewn about. The young man on the futon is SEAN PARKER.
Is that something that's important to y ou?
Yes.
If I say your name will you stop the enhanced interrogation techniques?
Yes.
Amy.
Nice. What's my major?
Really?
I remember something about a trombone.
That was the beer bong. Tu fais l'amour A la jolie fille et la mete de cote.
French! Your major is French.
Oui. And what's yours?
My major?
Yes.
I don't have one.
You haven't declared?
I don't go to school here.
You're kidding?
No.
Where do you go to school?
Grover Cleveland Elementary.
Seriously, you're not like 15 years old or anything are you?
No, I'm 22.
No.
Good.
So what do you do?
I'm an entrepreneur.
You're unemployed.
I wouldn't say that.
What would you say?
That I'm an entrepreneur.
What was your latest preneur?
Well...I founded an internet company that let college kids download and share music for free.
Kind of like Napster?
No, exactly like Napster.
What do you mean?
I founded Napster.
Sean Parker founded Napster.
Nice to meet you.
Ah, you see, the shoe's on the other, uh, table which has turned.
I just slept with Sean Parker?
All night long, Sister Souljah.
You're a millionaire.
Not technically.
What are you?
Technically?
Yeah.
Broke. There's not a lot of money in free music. Even less when you're being sued by everyone who's ever been invited to the Grammys.
I think you're cool.
He too.
I have to hop in the shower and get ready for class. There's juice or anything else you can find. Help yourself.
You mind if I check my e-mail?
Go ahead. AMY heads into the bathroom but leaves the door a little ajar.. SEAN steps over to AMY's pink laptop and hits a key to wake it out of sleep mode. The shower starts running in the bathroom. The laptop springs to life and is open to something SEAN's never seen before--a Facebook page.; He sees AMY's picture and a short profile: Her major at Stanford, courses she's taking, books she likes, clubs she's a. member of...
 Jesus. He gets up and goes to the bathroom door--
Amy?
Can'you come out here?
Just a second.
There's a fire, Amy.
What?! AMY grabs a towel and jumps out of the shower--
Where?:
Okay, there isn't a fire, but I need to ask you something.
Are you kidding?!
No.
I could have been killed!
I3ow?
I went to check my e-mail and there's a website open on your computer.
Yeah. After you went unconscious last night I went on theFacebook for a while.
What's that?
'iheFacebook? It. started at Harvard and standford's had it for about two weeks and it's awesome except it's addictive. Seriously, I'm on the thing five times a day, all my friends are.
You mind if I grab a piece of paper and a pen?
What's wrong?
Absolutely nothing. It's beautiful.
What are you talking about?
I need to find... says A SEAN scrolls down to the bottom of the page where it Mark Zuckerberg Production"
.Mark Zuckerberg.
 I've never been in this building.
 This building is a hundred years older than the country.it's in.
So do be careful.
We're just siting in the chairs.
You can go in now. She points to a door and CAMERON and TYLER get up, quickly straighten themselves, and walk into
Good morning.
Good morning, s_ir. I'm Cameron Winklevoss and this is my brother, Tyler. CAMERON is extending his hand but instead of taking it, SUMMERS reaches to the top of a pile of papers and pulls a ten- page letter off the top.
Why are you here? There's silence while SUMMERS appears to read over the letter...
That wasn't rhetorical.
I'm sorry, I thought you were reading the letter.
I've read the letter.
Well I think it's pretty self- explanatory. We had an idea for a website called HarvardConnection--we've since changed the name to ConnectU--and Mark Zuckerberg stole that idea and--
What do you want me to do about it? CAMERON points to a row of Harvard Student Handbooks on the bookshelf behind SUMMERS.
Well sir, in The Harvard Student Handbook, which is distributed to each freshman--under the heading "Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community" and the sub-heading, "Honesty"--
Oh dear God.
--it says, "The College expects that all students will be honest and forthcoming in their dealings with members of this community. All students are required to respect private and public ownership. Instances of theft, misappropriation or unauthorized use of or damage to property
Excuse me, Anne?
Yes sir.,
Punch me in the face.  Go ahead-.
When did you memorize that?
(a little frustrated with this
Sir, it's against University rules to steal. from another student, plain and simple.
You've spoken to your R,A.?
Yes sir, and the R.A. made a recommendation to the Ad Board but the Ad Board won't hear us.
Have you tried dealing with Mr. Zuck.e.rberg directly?
Mr. Zuckerberg hasn't responded to any of our e-mails or phone calls for. the last' two weeks. He doesn't answer when we knock on his door at Kirkland and the closest we've come to talking face to face is when I saw him on. the quad and chased him through Harvard Square.
You chased him?
You know he could have you arrested for harassment and attempted assault.
I don't see this as a University issue.
Of course it's a University issue. There's a code of ethics and an honor code and he violated them both.
You entered into a code of ethics with the university, not with each other.
I'm devastated by that.
What my brother means is that if Mark Zuckerberg walked into our dorm room and stole our computer it would be a university issue, right?
I really don't know. This office doesn't handle petty larceny and the only reason I agreed to see you--Anne; by did I agree to see them?
Colleagues of their father.
So you see?
This isn't a petty larceny.
This idea is potentially worth millions of dollars.
Millions of dollars?
Yes.
You might be letting your imagination run away with you.
With all due respect I don't think you're in any position to make that call.
I was U.S. Treasury Secretary, I'm in some position to make that call.
Letting our imaginations run away with us is exactly what we were told to do in your freshmen address.
Well. I would try letting your- imaginations run away with you on a new project.
You would.
Everyone at Harvard is inventing something or starting a new business in their dorm room- Harvard undergraduates believe that inventing a job is better than getting one so can I suggest again that the two of you come up with a new new project?
I'm sorry, but that-'s not the point, sir.
What's the point?
You don't have to be an intellectual property expert to understand-the, difference between right and wrong.
And you're saying that I don't?
Of course I'm not saying that.
I'm saying that. SUMMERS looks at TYLER and then smiles...
Just start another project? Like we're making a diorama for the science fair?
Yes. And if you have a goddam problem with that, Mr. Winklevoss, the courts are always at your disposal. Athletes don't get special treatment at this school.
Do they get fairness?
They don't get to run to daddy. Okay? This isn't 50 years ago.
Excuse me, sir, but in your analogy, is daddy our father or you?
Both. Is there anything else I can do for you?
Well I wouldn't mind that much if you took a flying--
Get the door on your way out, would you?
I broke your 335 year old doorknob.
Eduardo, spring break, you and Mr. Zuckerberg took a trip to New York.
Yes.
What was the purpose of the trip?
As CFO, I'd set up some meetings with potential advertisers.
Who paid for the trip?
It was paid for out of the thousand dollar account I'd set up a few months earlier.
At this point your thousand dollars was the only money that had been put into the company.
Yes.
How did you feel the meetings'went?
They went terribly.
Why?
Mark was asleep.
I wasn't asleep.
Can I re-phrase my answer?
Sure.
I wish he'd been asleep.
.and we're at 29 schools now with over 75,000 members. People who go on theFacebook tend to stay on longer than almost any other site and here's the most impressive statistic--67% of people who try it once come back. Now if you'll
Excuse me.
Yes sir.
There was one more meeting scheduled for the New York trip.
Yes. A dinner. It was set up through my girlfriend at the time.
Would you say that mark was excited about this meeting?
Yes, very,
They're not gonna card us here.
They might.
Look around.
It' :l.l be embarrassing,
They're not gonna card us.
Are you gonna talk about ads again?
Unless you're the Ballet Theatre of Hartford, the urpose of a business is to make a profit.'
This isn't a business.
That's tough for me because I'm the business head of the company. MARK says nothing...
He's a god, he can be as late as he wants.
He's not a god-
What is he?
25 minutes late.
I think Wardo's jealous.
I honestly wasn't jealous. I was nervous.
Why?
I didn't know him at all but I'd done an internet search and asked around. He struck me as kind of a wild man.
Why?
He crashed out of two pretty big internet companies in-spectacular fashion and he's got a reputation with drugs.
He also founded'the companies.
We don't need him.
 He's here. SEAN PARKER has stepped into the restaurant and is. saying hello to the hostess while hugging a waitress.
And he does own a watch. SEAN stops at a table to shake hands with a guy in a suit and kiss his girlfriend. It's sort of an incongruous sight--this 22 year old kid who's able to work a room like Sinatra. Who the hell is this?
. Take your time...
Stop it. SEAN makes his way'over to MARK's table--
I'm Sean Parker.
You must be Eduardo, And Jenny. And Mark, its great to meet you.
You guys don't have anything in front of you.
We were waiting for--
 .Cori.
Hey baby boy.
Could you bring out some things? The lacquered pork with that ginger confit? I don't know, tuna tartar, some lobster claws, the foie gras and the shrimp dumplings, that'll get us started. Jenny, what do you like to drink?
An appletini?
Great. Four.
From that point on it was a Sean-a-thon. I'd never seen anyone perform a monologue at dinner before but that's what happened.
He took us through his episode with Napster .
. tried to sell the company to pay the 35 million they said we owed in royalties and in the end we just had to declare bankruptcy but I made a name for myself.
I'll say. EDUARDO And then he went to his second business venture which was Plaxo, an online rolodex.
See, we had a VC from the beginning. Michael Moritz, a partner at Sequoia Capital who'd invested in Yahoo and Google. Moritz wanted to push me out from
ginning and he hired private detectives to dig up everything on me they could. Did they find anything? No. But I was out of the company. I'm not done with Moritz and Sequoia Capital yet. I swear to God, Mark, before I'm 25 I'm gonna make those guys kiss my ass and then cry like girls, There will be retribution for Plaxo and I'm not just talking. I brought down the record companies with Napster and I'll bring down Michael Moritz,
You didn't bring down the record companies, They won.
In court.
 Well.
And he told story after story about life in Silicon Valley, parties at Stanford and-down in LA, friends who" d become billionaires--and then he finally got around to theFacebook.
Tell me about your progress.
Well... we're in 29 schools now and we
(ignoring EDUARDO and going for
Tell me about the strategy you're using.
Okay. For instance, we wanted Baylor in Texas but Baylor already had a social network on campus so instead of going right after them, we made a list of every school within a hundred miles and put theFacebook on those campuses first. Pretty soon all the Baylor kids were seeing their friends on our site and we were in.
Perfect.
Thank you, it was mine.
Settle an argument for us, would you? I say it's time to start making money from theFacebook but Mark doesn't want advertising. Who's right?
Neither of you. TheFacebook is cool, that's what it's got going for it.
Yes.
You don't want to ruin it with ads because ads aren't cool.
Exactly.
it's like you're throwing the coolest party on campus and someone's telling you it's gotta be over at 11:00.
Exactly.
You don't even know what the thing is yt.
I said exactly that.
Row big it can get and how far it can go. Picture sharing, news feeds, a virtual champagne room, apps you haven't even thought of. This.is no time to take your chips down. A million dollars isn't cool. You know what's cool?
You?
A billion dollars. And that's where you're headed. A billion dollar valuation. Unless you take bad advice in which case you might as well have come up with a chain of very successful dry cleaners. When you go fishing you can catch a lot of fish or you can catch a big fish. You ever walk into a guy's den and see a picture of him standing next to fourteen trout? No, he's holding an. 800 pound marlin and that's what you want. Hey guys, it's your company, I don't have a dog in this fight. Irjust came to say hi.
No, he came to hook an 800 pound marlin and he did. He owned Mark after that dinner. He picked up the check, told Mark they'd talk again soon and was gone. But not before he made his biggest contribution to the company.
 Oh Hey. Drop the "the". Just Facebook, It's cleaner. And SEAN heads out, patting backs and kissing waitresses along the way.
That's gotta be some kind of land speed record for talking.
You want to end the party at eleven.
I'm trying to pay for the party.
There won't be a party unless it's cool.
Sure, let's drop the "the".
I meant catching the marlin instead of the 1.4 trout. Doesn't that sound good?
Only if you're a trout.
I'M going to enter this as Plaintiff's Exhibit 54. Incorporation papers for Facebook, a Limited Liability Corporation registered in Florida--  Why Florida?
That's where my family lives.
---and ask the respondent to stipulate that the documents of incorporation state the ownership as follows: 65 percent for Mark Zuckerberg, 30 percent for Eduardo Saverin and 5 percent for Dustin Mosokowitz .
We stipulate.
And that was April 13th, 2004.
You can mark it.
Yes, thanks, Mr. Saverin, have you ever done anything that would be considered legitimate grounds for termination?
No,
You never did anything to embarrass the company or even seriously jeopardize it?
No?
No.
You were accused of animal, cruelty-
I have an article here from The Crimson---
I can't have this, Wardo, MARK's talking about the Crimson article in his hand. EDUARDO is standing next to a crate that's holding--wait for it- a live chicken, DUSTIN is sitting at the desktop computer staring at something intently.
It's bullshit, it's one of the other clubs playing a prank.
They identify you as--
I'd gotten into the Phoenix. I'd been accepted and as part of my initiation I had to, for one week, carry with me at all -Limes and take care of a chicken.
--one of the founders of Facebook. "Junior Eduardo Saverin, co-founder of Facebook, wa.s-- --I'm not the expert but being connected to torturing animals is probably bad for business.
I wasn't torturing the chicken, I don't torture chickens, are you crazy?
Settle down please. I'm holding an
This is scathing.
 Nine--hundred and fifty-six.
 Listen to me.
I was having dinner in the Kirkland Dining Hail with Mark and I had the chicken with me because I had to have the chicken with me at all times. This was college.
I'm gonna have to answer for this.
Nine--hundred sixty-nine.
The dining hall was serving chicken for dinner and I had to feed my chicken so I just...I cut up little pieces,of chicken and gave it to the chicken.'There were a lot of people there and someone must have seen me and the next thing I knew I was being accused of forced cannibalism. At the end of the table, MARYLIN'tries but fails to stifle a small laugh. EDUARDO looks down the table...
i didn't'know you can't do that. I dealt with the various animal rights groups, I dealt with the Associate Dean of the College, it was all fine.
Nine-hundred and eighty-eight.
Someone from the Fly or the Porc must have reported it. For all I know it was the Winklevoss twins who may have been tipped off by somebody else who was there.
Alright, let's just forget about it.
I can't forget about it, I'm being accused of animal cruelty. It's better to be accused of armed robbery. I'm going to have to explain this to my father, I'm going to have to explain this to everyone, I'm going to have to--what is happening on that? EDUARDO's referring to a laptop that's open and displaying images of four paintings.
T. have my final coming up for "Postwar and Contemporary Art" and I haven't been to class. I'm supposed to write about those four paintings.
Is that a Facebook page?
Yeah, I opened it under an alias. I posted the paintings and asked people to comment. Every once in a while I hop on and stir the pot to get a good debate going, it's beautiful.
Mr. 2uckerberg was cheating on his final exam?
I'd rather not answer that, Gretchen.
Why not?
Because I'm not suing him for cheating on his final exam and so that's not what friends do.
Well you just told us he was cheating.
bops.
No, he didn't tell us about it at all. our litigators are capable of doing a Google search. in fact when we raised the subject with him he defended-yu. -
Nine ninety-three, we are so close.
We're gonna need more money, Wardo.
I agree. More servers, more apps--
---and I want to hit that coal by the end of the summer. I'm interviewing people tomorrow--two interns to come to Palo Alto for the summer and we're-gonna have to pay them something.
What?
I already found a house for rent on a street two-blocks.from the Stanford campus. It's a piece of junk but it's perfect and it's got a pool.
When did you decide to go to California for the summer?
Somewhere in the middle of The Sean Parker Variety Hour?
He was right. California's the place we've gotta be.
You're Jed Clampett?
You guys got The Beverly Hillbillies in--
Yes, we got the show in Brazil, it was genius.
What's your problem with Sean?
He doesn't bring anything to the table. He doesn't have money, Dustin's a better
He's got connections to the VCs.
We don't need VCs, we need advertisers and I've got connections to the VCs.
The real players and--
--as someone who's just really embarrassed the company in a bad way--
It was the Winklevosses, Mark!
Bang on.
150,000 members, Wardo.
Congratulations.
Who came up with nothing.
Enough to get him out of Plaxo. The drugs, the girls--
We don't know any of that's true.
You can read about it,
And you can read about you torturing birds.
Don't fish eat other fish?! The marlins and the trout?!
What the hell?
I'm interviewing interns at 10 tomorrow night in t}y CS lab. Get on board with this or not.
DUSTIN'S holding a. watch and MARK is walking slowly back and forth behind the five "interviewees" who are intensely typing at their keyboards. EDUARDO slowly makes his way through the crowd to MARK. He can see that on the computer screens are a whole lot of numbers and letters that neither he nor we can understand. He stands next to MARK and watches this for a moment. Every once in a while, one of the contestants will throw back their shot of Jack Daniels which will instantly get re-filled by a PRETTY ASIAN GIRL. Throughout all this the CHEERING CONTINUES.
Yeah.
What's goin' on?
They have 10 minutes to get 'root access to a Python webserver, expose its SSL encryti_on and then intercept all traffic over its secure port.
They're hacking.
All behind a Pix Firewall Emulator. But here's the beauty.
You know I didn't understand what you just said, right?
I do know that.
What's the beauty?
Every 10th line of code written, they have to drink a shot. And hacking's supposed to be stealth, so anytime the server detects an intrusion, the candidate responsible has to drink a shot. I also have a program running that has a pop-up window appear simultaneously on all five computers--the last candidate to hit the window has to drink a shot. Plus every three minutes they all have to drink a shot.
Can I ask--what part of the interns' jobs will they need to be able to do drunk?
You're right. A more relevant test would be seeing if they can keep a chicken alive for a week.
Here.
What's this?
I opened a new account and put $18,000 it. Will that get you through the summer? MARK looks at EDUARDO... Suddenly two of the candidates hands shoot up almost at the
Here!
Right here! MARK glances over at the first screen, then the second...
welcome to Facebook. The place ERUPTS. The pretty ASIAN GIRL hits an mp3 player that's been hooked up to speakers and a Dr. Dre song blares out--"California, it's time to party..." The two winners are hugging each other and getting wild congratulations from the crowd.
Yes.
In addition to the $1000 you'd already put up.
Yes.
A total of $19,000 now.
Yes.
Hang on. MARK's scratching something out on a pad...
I'm just checking your math on that.
I can continue? MARK motions "ves"...
Wel1... .I figured we were a team and I wanted to be a team player. I figured Mark, Dustin and the new interns could work on the site while I worked on generating advertiser interest in New York.
And mostly I figured., you know...how much could go wrong in three months?
--and the brick chimney comes crashing down. The INTERN drops into patio furniture as bricks from the chimney come cascading down.
Shit!/Are you alright?!/ Jesus!/etc-
I'm okay.
You sure?
Yeah.
Is anything broken?
No. And at that moment a stray brick drops from the roof and crashes through a glass patio table.
That's gonna out into the security deposit. From inside the DOORBELL RINGS--
That's the doorbell.
I didn't know we had a doorbell.
He's wired in. MARK walks into--
 Andrew.
Not now.
Good boy. MARK gets to the door and opens it. He's stunned to see SEAN PARKER standing there with his girlfriend, SHARON. They all look at each other for a moment---
Mark?
Sean?
Do you live here?
Yeah. Do you?
We were right across the street, we saw the chimney come--
Yeah.
Is anybody hurt?
No. You live across the street.
I'm Sharon.
This is my girlfriend, Sharon. She lives across the street and I was helping her move out when we saw the chimney--
Yeah, we had a zip line to the pool.
You came to California.
Yeah.
You made the right choice.
Here you go. A beer comes flying out of the kitchen and SEAN catches it.
Sharon. Another beer comes flying out which SHARON had no idea was coming and so it smashes into the fireplace.
Oh God. I'm so sorry. And a brick comes down the chimney and crashes on top of the broken glass from the beer bottle.
You know, ironically, we're paying an extra 50 bucks a month 'cause it has a working fireplace.
This house is great. The team is great. It's exactly what it should be.
He's wired in.
That's what I'm talkin' about. Where's Eduardo?
He's got an internship in New York.
A WAITRESS holding a tray of colored drinks high over her head takes us through the crowd to a spiral staircase that's being guarded by two more BOUNCERS with clipboards. The staircase leads up to the 2nd level which is all VIP tables that look out over the dance floor. Each VIP area has a couple of couches and a table covered in bottles of vodka, tequila, rum, mixers, ice, glasses and a private waitress who's happy to bend over and pour a drink for you, And that's where we catch up with MARK and SEAN. Sitting next to SEAN is a BEAUTIFUL WOMAN and there's another standing behind him and leaning against the couch. MARK and SEAN have to speak the music.
I still can't believe I rented a house across the street from you.
That's not my house. It was Sharon's. I was crashing there for a little. bit while I'm taking care of some things. But she's done for the summer so she's back at her parents' place and I'm homeless.
Yeah?
That's sol..id man, thanks,
You got it.
Your date looks so familiar to me,
She looks familiar to a lot of people.
What do you mean?
Look at any Victoria's Secret catalogue from the last six months.
No man. I'll tell you something, you know how I founded Napster?
I know everything there is to know about you Sean.
Fuck Wikipedia, Mark, no you don't.
He has an internship.
An internship?
In New York.
The company's here. A billion dollar company is here. And what confuses me is that in New York, Eduardo introduced himself as the business head of Facebook. I've been at the front of two of the biggest things in the history of the internet and I can tell you that nothing, nothing is more important to a start-up than the energy and ambition of its founders.
You have to live and breathe the project every minute of every day and-night. Do you live and breathe Facebook?
Yes.
I know you do. I know those guys back at the house do. The guy's eyes did not blink when a beer bottle smashed into a fireplace 10 feet from his work, station. So I'll ask again--where's Eduar
I think I should. The girls come back--
You guys figure out a new way to get porn on your computer?
You know most of it's bad but some of it's pretty good. MARK and SEAN aren't paying attention...
What's your goal for the summer?
We want: to . be in a hundred schools.
okay. Okay good. I'll tell you what. Gesture of good faith. While you're getting yourself into a hundred schools, I'm gonna put you on two continents.
Let's line up some shots.  You can take away the Cuervo, we'll have Don Julio 1942.
Absolutely, Mr. Parker. The WAITRESS goes off--
Mark?
Yeah.
I never told her my name.
Two razor thin skulls explode out from under the bridge for the final, agonizing hundred-meter stretch of the ancient and prestigious Henley Royal Regatta. The two boats are neck and neck coming out of the bridge. The port-side boat is being crewed by the two Dutch members of the Ilollandia Roeiclub. The starboard boat is being crewed by a pair of identical twins wearing tank tops bearing the "H" of Harvard. We HEAR the ROAR come up from the CROWD in the viewing section. The crowd is dressed as if for opening day at Ascot -- the women in flowing dresses and wide-brimmed hats, the men i n blazers and brightly colored floral ties. But the young men in the boats can barely hear the crowd. Just their own breathing as they pull against the longest natural. straight stretch of water in the world--a mile and a half torture test against the best competition they've ever faced. And they're neck and neck. CAMERON and TYLER can't shake the Dutch. The CROWD is going crazy in their own English way as none of them can remember ever seeing two boats this close this late. Mixed in with the British crowd is a small contingent waving the flag of Holland and a slightly larger contingent of Americans.
--the finish gun is fired into the air, the oars come out of the water and the bodies of the crewmen slump over. CAMERON turns his head to the cheering crowd to see the Dutch group holding a giant flag and.jumping up and down. The Americans bring their giant flag down and fold it up. The two DUTCH CREW. MEMBERS pump their fists in the air and hug as the two boats skim along to a gentle stop. The MOTHER drops her head-and looks down. The FATHER refuses to look away. From CAMERON and TYLER, just the'breathing.,
His Royal Highness, Prince Albert. Sir, may I present Mr. Cameron Winklevoss and Mr. Tyler. Winklevoss of Harvard University.
Brilliant race. Never seen a race that close. Less than one second, the steward tells me.
My grandfather, Jack Kelly, was one of the premiere rowers of his day. I've been coming to Henley for 30 years. Never seen a race that close. Have you? Have you seen a race that close? CAMERON is thinking about starting a war with Monaco right now so he lets his brother do the talking.
Yes, that's absolutely right. Less than a second though in your case. Well as they say, I suppose it just came down to who wanted it more.
Will I have the pleasure of watching you both row again in Beijing?
If we make the team, sir, yes. Thank you.
I present you with your Second Place ribbons. On to the champions!
And off the APPLAUSE from the crowd, we
Yeah. We didn't want it enough. That was the problem. Fuck you, you fucking little--
Casa. The guy' s the prince of a country the size of East Hampton. Let it go. MR. WINKLEVOSS has made his way over...
Boys.
Dad.
Divya.
How are-you, Mr. Winklevoss.
That was a tough beat. A tough beat.
I'm sorry, dad. You and mom flew all the way over.
Listen to me good, you two. Don't you ever apologize to me for losing a race like that. Don't you ever apologize to anyone for losing a race like that. Another man comes along, MR. KENWRIGHT.
-Boys.
Oh. Mr. Kenwright. Dad, this is Mr. Kenwright, part of our host family this week.
Pleasure to meet you.
Good to meet you.
I just had the most extraordinary phone chat with my daughter. She told me that she and her friends are all talking about the race, which ended just, a half-hour ago, via their computers. A new website called Facebook. Do you have this in America? Eve.ryon= is frozen...
No no. Cambridge. Majoring in French Literature, though I wasn't aware there was such a thing.
And Oxford, St. Andrews, Warwick and the London School of Economics best as I can tell. because that's where her friends are.
I'm going to find your mother.
Good race, boys. Live to fight another day.
Thank you. The men leave and CAMERON, TYLER and DIVYA are alone. CAMERON looks at them for a moment, then turns back to watching the
Turn it off.
I don't mind that we got beat by the Dutch by less than a second. That was a fair race, that was a good race and they had the better boat today and they'll see us again. What I mind is that we got beat by Mark Zuckerberg...by less than a second.
Let's fucking gut that little nerd.
 Finally!
SEAN is pacing the house on his cell phone while two YOUNG WOMEN--dressed to go out for a party--are at the moment each on a free computer playing each other in a game of Counter- Strike. Basically they're shooting at each other and missing and laughing their heads off, it wouldn't appear as if the house has been cleaned since the last time we saw it and in fact there are signs of more wreckage as well as futons, pillows and blankets on the floor.
Moritz, Michael Moritz, my Sequoia Capital---hang on.  Are you guys using Wallhacks or Aimbots?
we don't know, we're just shooting at each other. The DOORBELL RINGS but no one pays attention--
Use Barr cks.
Like we know what that is. Now there's a KNOCKING at the door and we
Yes!
Hey!
Bong hit.
Anybody hear that banging? While the following is going on, here's what's happening: The girls have gone over to a 12-foot bong that starts at the floor and goes to the landing at the top of the stairs.
it gets lit at the bottom and smoked at the top so the girl who just got her soldiers hit trots up the stairs.
Dude, somebody's at the door. SEAN goes back to the cell phone conversation as he heads to
What the hell.
He was on a 36 hour coding tear so he took a nap for a couple of hours. EDUARDO walks into the house and surveys the wreckage--
What in hell happened here?
Not happened--happening. The next big thing.
Wardo!
Hey man.
You ready?
Go. EDUARDO watches as the girl at the top of the stairs takes a 12-foot hit from the tower-bong.
Flow old are they, Sean?
It's not polite to ask,
How old are they?
You think you know me, don't you.
I've read enough.
You know how much I've read about you? Nothing. MARK comes down the stairs--
Wardo.
I waited an hour for you at the airport.
What time is it?
It's midnight. Or 3AM in New York where I just came from.
You've gotta see some of the new stuff we've got. Dustin, show him the wall. I'm just calling it the wall.
Forget the wall, tell him about the meeting I've got set up with Peter Thiel.
No.
Why would you? He just runs a two-billion dollar hedge fund called Clarium Capital and was the money behind PayPal.
Thiel may want to make an angel, investment.
I don't care if he's an actual angel, why's he setting up business meetings?
You've had a long flight.
No, I've had a long wait on the tarmac at JFK, theft a long wait at the passenger loading and unloading zone at SFO and in between there was a long flight. I run the business end of this company, he's a house guest living rent-free on a generous grant from the Eduardo Saverin Foundation.'
How's the business end going? I see you got some big ticket ad buys lined up.
The Harvard Eartendi.ng Course, the Seneca Club's Red Party and the Mather House annual "Lather Dance". You're just one small step away from bagging Snookies Cookies, I can feel it.
Sure.
I'm pretty baked.
Don't worry about it, it's just from the pot. EDUARDO's followed MARK into--
How's it going? How's the internship? How's Jenny?
How's the internship?
Yeah.
Mark.. .Jesus, I quit the internship. We've talked about this on the phone, were you even--I quit on my first day.
I do remember you saying that.
Yeah, it was a pretty big deal.
How's Jenny?
Jenny's psycho.
That can be fun.
No I mean she's actually psychotic. She's insanely jealous and she's irrational and she's violent.
Still, it's nice you have a girlfriend.
I do not want that guy representing himself as part of this company.
You gotta move out here, Wardo, this is where it's all happening.
Did you hear what I just said?
The con etions, the energy-
--the creativity.
He's not part of the company.
We've got over 300,000 members, we're in
I'm aware of that.
--five in Europe.
I'm aware of that, Mark, I'm the CFO.
We need more servers than I ever imagined we'd need. We need more programmers. We need more'money. He set uV the Thiel meeting. He's set up meetings all around town.
He's set up other meetings?
Yes.
Without me knowing anything about it?!
You're in New York!
Riding subways 14 hours a day to get
How's it going so far?!! EDUARDO looks at MARK for a long moment before we
I want to freeze this bank account and cancel all existing checks and lines of credit.
After a moment...
You know this is where they filmed Towering Inferno.
Come back in. They get up and walk into--
We've talked it over and congratulations. We're gonna start you off with a $500,000 investment. Maurice is gonna want to talk to you about some corporate restructuring.
We'll file as a Corporations eiaware and come up with a new stock strn ructure to allow for new investors,
Now lemme ask you something. Who's Eduardo Saverin?
EDUARDO is asleep on top of the covers in the un-air conditioned apartment when he wakes up to the sound of a key in the door; One lock un-locks, then another--
Hello? --and then the last. The door opens and JENNY is framed by the dingy light of the hallway.
Jesus .
When did you get back?
You scared me. I need you to knock first.
When did you get back?
I got back this afternoon.
And when were you going to call me?
Jen, it was kind of a rough trip and I was tired and--
Or answer one of my 47 texts? Did you know I sent 47 texts?
I did, and I thought that was incredibly normal behavior.
Are you mocking me?
I brought you a present.
Why does your status say "single" on your Facebook page?
Why does your relationship status say "single" on your k'acebook page?
I was single when I set up the page.
And you just never bothered to change it?
What?!
I don't know how.
Do I look stupid to you?
No. Calm down.
You're asking me to believe that the CFO of Facebook doesn't know how to-change his relationship status on Facebook?
It's a little embarrassing so you should take it as a sign of trust that I would tell you that.
Puck you, Wardo.
You didn't change it so you could fuck Silicon valley skanks every time you go out to see Mark.
That is not even remotely true and I can promise you that the Silicon valley skanks don't care what anyone's relationship status is on Facebook. Please let me give you your present. EDUARDO's cell phone RINGS--
Oh, your phone does work. EDUARDO reaches for his cell but JENNY grabs it first to check the ID.
Okay, this is gonna be tricky. Here, open your present. It's a silk scarf.
Have you ever seen me wear a scarf?
This'll be your first. EDUARDO's gotten the gift box out of his half un-packed suitcase, tossed it to JENNY and finally answered the phone.
 You froze our account? in the background there's a small celebration going on with SEAN, DUSTIN, the INTERNS and of course some GIRLS. Champagne is being sprayed from shaken bottles and the girls. are dancing to triumphant music.
I did.
You froze the account.
I had to get your attention, mark.
Do you realize that you jeopardized the entire company? Do you realize that your actions could have easily destroyed everything I've been working on?
We've been working on.
Without money, the company can't function. What EDUARDO can't see behind his back is that JENNY has taken the gift box and lit it on fire with a cigarette lighter.
If the servers are down for even a day, our reputation is damaged irreversibly,. Users are fickle. Friendster has proven that fact. And JENNY's now dropped the flaming cardboard box into the wastebasket where the fire grows larger. She casually kicks the basket over with her foot.
Even a small exodus, even a few people leaving would reverberate through the whole user base. The users are interconnected, that's the whole fucking point! College kids are online because their friends are online and if one
 Holy shit!
--goes, all the dominos go! Do you get that?! I'm not going back to Caribbean Night at the Jewish fraternity!
I've got a fire in a my apartment!
Did you like being nothing?! Did you like being nobody?! Did you like being a pasty- faced geek?! You wanna go back to that?!
I'm putting you on speaker. EDUARDO hits a button on his cell and tosses it down. We'll. keep hearing MARK'svoice as EDUARDO runs out into the hallway, grabs a fire extinguisher from its wall bracket, comes back in and sprays out the fire.
That was the act'of a child, not a businessman. And it certainly wasn't the act of a friend, You know how embarrassed I was when I tried to cash a check? And I was with a girl, Wardo. It happened in front of a girl. I'm not going back to that life,
Okay, maybe you were angry, maybe you were frustrated. I'm ready to let, uh, to let bygones be bygones because I've got some good news. EDUARDO--with the fire now out--picks up the phone.
I'm sorry. It .maybe was angry and it was childish. I needed to get your attention.
I said I've got some good news.
What is it?
Peter Thiel's just made an angel investment of a half a million dollars..
A half a million dollars and he's setting us up in an office. They want to re- incorporate the company, they want to meet you and they need your signature on some documents so get your ass on the next flight back to San Francisco. I need my CFO,
EDUARDO clicks the phone shut.
You're going back there?
Yes. Also I'm breaking up with you.
We can see through the glass that MARY, is working at a computer nearby. SEAN is also hovering in the background.
Four documents, These two are common stock purchase agreements allowing you to buy stock in the newly re-incorporated Facebook instead of the old stock which is now worthless, The third is the exchange agreement, that's for exchanging your old shares for new shares and this is the voter holding agreement.
How many shares of stock will I own?
Jesus Christ.
That's a 34.4% ownership share. Why the rise from the original 30%?
Because you may need to dilute it to award shares to new investors.
I like dealing with business majors.
You should know that Mark's already taken his percentage from 60 down to 51.
Mark doesn't care about money and he needs to be protected.
Dustin Moskowitz owns 6.81%, Sean Parker 6-.47h__
I can live with that.
And Peter Theil 7%. Would you like to use my pen?
Counsel: "And when you signed these documents, were you aware that you were signing your own death certificate?"
Well there was a lot of handshaking and congratulations. He'd already told me he wouldn't be coming back to school for at least a semester so we were saying goodbye for a while. And then before I left, he said----
But you gotta come back. Somewhere around the end of November/early December.
Peter's gonna throw us an amazing party when we hit a million members, it's gonna be out of control. You've gotta come back for it.
 A million members.
Yeah.
Remember the algorithm on the window at Kirkland?
Yeah.
Yeah, I'll be here.
You sure about-this?
Oh yes. You're 20 minutes late. You're going to walk in there and say you overslept. and you didn't have time to get dressed, They're gonna pitch you, Sequoia Capital is gonna pitch you. They're gonna .tell you why you should take their money. They're gonna beg you to take their money, You're gonna nod, you're gonna nod, you're. gonna nod and then you're -gonna say, "Which one of you is Michael Moritz?". Moritz is gonna say, "That's me". And you're gonna say, "Sean Parker says 'Fuck you.' And walk right on out.
Fuck. You.
In late November I got the e-mail from Mark telling me to come out for the millionth member party.
What else did the e-mail say?
It said that we had to have a business meeting. That Mark and Sean had played some kind of revenge stunt on Michael Moritz and Sequoia capital. and that it had impressed Moritz so much that he was making an investment offer that was hard to turn down.
I went out to California and went straight to the new offices. And it's clear that we're in the offices of a new, high-tech, very successful internet company. The Facebook logo in blue metallic letters on the wall, the maple desks, new computer monitors, carpeting, a wall covered in graffiti by an artist commissioned for. the job and -tons of young employees.
I didn't know whether to dress for the party or the business meeting so I kind of dressed for both. We see that most of the employees, especially the women, are dressed to go to an after-work, late-night party.
But it didn't matter.
Why not?
Because I wasn't called out there for either one.
What were you called out there for?
An ambush.
Eduardo'.
Eduardo. EDUARDO turns to see the LAWYER he dealt with earlier standing by the door to a glass conference room.
In here. EDUARDO walks across the bullpen; where no one makes eye contact, and into--
At first I thought he was joking, giving me more contracts to sign. But then I started reading. As EDUARDO reads, we rack focus to MARK, who's sitting at a computer'with his back to EDUARDO, focused on his work. And then we see-SEAN step into the frame and lean against a desk a few yards away. And then back to EDUARDO, who's almost shaking...
What is this?
What is this?
If you'll let me-- EDUARDO goes back out into--
Mark? MARK doesn't look up from his computer--
Mark. MARK still doesn't look up--
He's wired in.
He's wired in.
Is he?
Yes. EDUARDO picks up MARK's laptop over his head and smashes it down on the desk, breaking it into pieces.
How 'bout now, are you still wired in?
(to the girl at the desk he's
Call security. Everyone in the office is frozen, silent and watching.
You issued over 24-million new shares of stock.
You were told that if new investors came
How much were your shares diluted? How much were his?!
What was Mr. Zuckerberg's ownership share diluted down to?
It wa
What was Mr. Moskowitz's ownership share diluted down to?
It wasn't.
What was Sean Parker's ownership share diluted down to?
It wasn't.
What was Peter Thief's ownership share diluted down. to?
It wasn't.
What was your ownership share diluted down to?
You signed the papers.
You set me up.
You're gonna blame me because you were the business head of the company and you made a bad business deal with your own company?!
It's gonna be like I'm not part of Facebook.
It's not. gonna be like you're not part of Facebook, you're not part of Facebook.
My name's on the masthead.
Check again. EDUARDO is momentarily frozen...
This is because I froze the account?
You think we were gonna let you parade around in your ridiculous suits pretending you were running this company?
Sorry, but my Prada's at the cleaners along with my hoodie and my fuck-you flip- flops you pretentious douchebag.
Oooh, security is here. You'll be leaving now. Two SECURITY GUARDS have come in--
:I'm not signing those papers.
We'll get your signature.
 Tell me this isn't about me getting into the Phoenix.
That's right. It is. Maybe if you'd spent a little less time with your new friends and a little more time with the company
You did it. I always knew you did it. You planted the story about the chicken.
You had me accused of animal cruelty.
Seriously, what the fuck is up with the chicken?
And I'll bet you just hated that they identified me as a co-founder of Facebook- -which I am! You better lawyer-up, asshole, 'cause I'm not comin' for my 30 percent, I'm comin' after everythin g
I'm going.
Hang on. SEAN hands EDUARDO afolded check.
There's your $19,000. 1 wouldn't cash it, though, I drew it on the account you froze. EDUARDO looks. at SEAN. . .then suddenly and quickly cocks his fist back to punch him in the face. SEAN flinches as EDUARDO holds his punch and lets out a small laugh.
I like standing next to you, Sean. It makes me look tough in comparison. EDUARDO exits with the security escort. There's a long silence in the room...
That's it. That's our show for tonight. I want to see everybody here get geared up for a party. We're gonna walk down to the club like it's the Macy's Thanksgiving Parade. Mackey, put it up on the screen, we've gotta be almost there. A young employee hits a remote and a few keys on his computer and a huge flat-screen displays a Facebook page with a read- out of the number of members.
There's scattered applause and excitement as everyone watches. SEAN takes MARK aside.
You alright?
Yeah.
That's life in the NFL.
No. You didn't have to be that rough on him.
Listen, I'm putting together a party-.-
Sean? You didn't have to be that rough on him.
I get it. I'll send flowers. I'm putting -together a party after the party at Gamma Phi Beta. Ashleigh over there's a sister and she says her friends are all down..
Ashleigh?
Yeah.
That's great. I've been, you know, I've been talking to her a little. I don't know, I think she likes me.
Oh dude.
What?
Yeah. An intern, ASHLEIGH, comes along With a small package--
Excuse me, Mark?
We were just talkin' about you,Ash. We're on for tonight?
Yeah.
You can put it on my desk. ASHLEIGH puts the small package on Mark's desk.
She's 19, I can't he.lp it, But I'll tell you what--after tonight.she's yours. in fact, I'm. gonna get' you in with all sorts of girls you wouldn't have met before.
Refresh!
 You'd do that for me? MACKEY hits the "refresh" key and the big screen shows--
CHEERS erupts throughout the place. SEAN grabs MARK and hugs him but MARK doesn't quite hug back--he's still hearing what SEAN just said.
I can't find a mirror.
Do it on anything. You can use a CD.
Do it off this. ASHLEIGH's sat on the bed and unbuttoned her top so that she's in just a bra. She's offering her chest as a surface off of which to snort cocaine.
Alright! The GIRL taps out some coke from a vial onto ASHLEIGH's chest and starts passing around a rolled up 20-dollar bill for everyone to have a turn and she herself will unbutton her shirt too for the same purpose. All this while SEAN is talking,
The next transformative development? A picture sharing application. A place where you view pictures that coincide with your social life. It is the true... digitalization of real life. You don't just go to a party anymore, you go to a party with your digital camera and your friends relive the party on Facebook. And tagging. The idea that you could tag anyone you wanted in those pictures so that people could find themselves. Then a digital log of every change in a person's life, broadcast to all their friends instantaneously.
Would this be easier without the bra?
It's worth finding out. The girls start happily slipping off their bras--
I've spent hours--
Why has the music stopped?
I've spent hours watching what people do when they log on.
Seriously, why has the music stopped? ASHLEIGH has a point. The music stopped in the addle of SEAN's speech and the sound outside from the party just doesn't sound like a party anymore.
flow they always checked their friends' status updates, checked to see which of their friends had changed their profiles, changed their photos and mostly...We lived on farms, then we lived in cities and now we're gonna live on the internet.
Sean. Stop. Something's going on downstairs, SEAN stops talking-he senses it too now. SEAN walks out of the room to the--
It's the cops. And they all spring into action. The girls are putting their bras back on, SEAN is wiping down a night table with the palm of his hand to get the coke dust off.
What's goin' on? They turn to see TWO POLICEMEN standing in the doorway, their flashlights scanning the room and hitting SEAN's eyes.
Ladies, I need you to put your shirts on.
I can have them turn the music down. One of the policemen casually takes SEAN's hand and sees that his palm looks like he just used it to erase a blackboard. The cop uses his finger to taste what it is.
Yeah, that isn't mine.
Okay, could you all stay where you are. And the handcuffs start to come out and we've got a room of terrified children.
Wait, can we just talk for a second? We start to move in on SEAM...
No sir.
Don't be stupid now,
I don It.
 What's this?
It's an Epipen,
And this?
That's my inhaler.
Ladies, how old are you?
I'm 20.
I'm 19,
Lying makes  i_'E worse.
I'm 17, I-'m sorry, I shouldn't have lied. SEAN closes. his eyes at hearing this news as we HEAR the sound of the-cuffs lock around his wrists and we
His cell phone RINGS and he answers.
It's alright, it's gonna be alright. I've posted bond-and I wasn't doing anything. I mean, I've got allergies so I can't---- We're back on MARK's side. He listens... listens...
Back on SEAN's side-
I think it was Moritz. I swear, I think it was Michael Moritz.
It's cool, I've got it under control.
You think it was Moritz? 'Cause I do. And I'm gonna meet that guy in a dark alley one night. Or Eduardo? Did Eduardo have me followed?
 Go home, Sean. I'll call our people. MARK clicks the phone shut. He sits there a moment. He looks at the small package. that Ashleigh dropped on his desk earlier. He opens up the brown paper wrapping and there's a box. He opens the box--a thousand brand new business cards. He takes one of the business cards out and looks at it. I'm CEO ...Bitoh And over this we HEAR a woman's voice...
Mark?
Mark? MARK looks up at her...
Everyone's gone, MARK doesn't say anything...
We're done for the day,
I'm sorry?
My lawyer or their lawyer?
He cashed out most of his stock. Hey listen, all you had all day was that salad. You want to get something to eat?
I can't.
I'm not a bad guy.
I know that. I like you.
What happens now?
Sy and the rest of them are at the Palm having a steak. Then they'll come back, up to the office and start working on a settlement agreement to present to you.
They're gonna want to settle?
Oh yeah. And you're gonna have to pay some bonus money too.
Why?
'Cause you're gonna need these guys to sign a non-disclosure agreement and you're gonna need to be indemnified. They say one unflattering word about you in public and you own their house, wife and kids.
I invented Facebook.
I'm talking about what a jury'll see. .That's what I do, that's what I'm doing here. I'm trying to specialize in voir dire--jury selection. Clothes, hair, wedding ring, speaking style, likability--
Likability?
I've been licensed to practice law for all of-20 months and I could get a jury to believe you planted the story about Eduardo. You know how? Just by asking the question. Watch. Why weren't you at the sorority party that night?
You think I'm the one who called the police?
Doesn't matter, I asked the question and now everybody's thinking about it. You lost the jury in the first 10 minutes.
Yeah,
I was drunk and angry and stupid.
And blogging.
Would anyone mind it I stayed and used the computer for a minute?
No. There's a night guy downstairs. Stay as long as you want.
Thanks. I appreciate your help today,
You're not an asshole, Mark. You just want to be.
Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss received a settlement of 65 million dollars and signed a non-disclosure agreement, They rowed for the U.S. Olympic Team in Beijing and placed sixth.
And waits...
