No, that's not exactly right. Your son seems to be interested in only one thing. Mom knows what's coming.
All he talks about, all he seems capable of thinking about is automobile racing.
Well you know, his father designs racing cars.
And where is your husband?
He's-working. He couldn't make it.
Perhaps the apple hasn't fallen very far from the tree. Mom is uncomfortable with that truth while the Teacher glances back to her records.
Is your husband's name Rex?
No, Rex is his older brother. Why?
This is the test he turned in last week. She holds up the Scantron test that Speed was working on. The bottom half of the ovals are filled in to spell out:
He continues to draw as the background of the classroom fades to white behind him, becoming the black corner that he is drawing on. We watch the race going on in his head as hand-drawn cars battle each other heading for a photo-finish. Speed makes the car noise himself including the jumping sound as two cars try to block the Mach 5, smashing into one another as -- The Mach 5 jumps over and through the fiery crash, crossing the finish line still in the air. Speed is lost in slow-motion revelry, making the sound of the roaring crowd. The teacher hears him and looks up, frowning as she sees him lost in his fantasy world. A little girl with a pink barrette also hears him turning to watch him, a smile creeping across her face; there is no one in the entire school like him. The teacher is about to say something when the bell rings. Speed snaps out of his fantasy and leaps up, in motion before anyone else.
Alright, pencils down, bring your
Thwack! Speed slaps his down and is already heading for the door.
--to my desk. Ham! The door slams open and Speed shoots out.
Speed Racer, slow down!
He pauses crossing the street letting two impossibly cool cars pass by. Here we begin to see the unique and individualized nature of the automobile in the world of Speed Racer. In this world, the grocery store parking lot looks like a car collector show; vintage and concept cars are as ubiquitous as the Camry is in our world. Speed dashes across the street, a tight parabolic arc around the car, his little head sticking up like a shark fin circling until-- The car door pops open and snaps shut. The seat-belt clicks into place before Rex even has a chance to move. He leans over and looks in the window. Speed smiles.
.I take it you're ready to go? Speed nods. Rex climbs in beside him.
So, who was school?
Fine. Are you going to the track? Mom said you were. You don't have to drop me off, I could just go with you.
No way. He starts the car and roadster growls to life.
Oh, come on, take me with you. Come on, please.
I can't, Speed. Pops would kill me.
He doesn't have to know. I won't say anything. Nobody will know. Come on, please, Rex, pleaseplease pleasepleasepleeeease. Rex sighs, knowing there's no way he can with this.
Are you wearing the socks? Lickety-split, Speed sticks his sneaker up against the dash board and pulls back his pant leg revealing-- A bright red sock.
You roll us again and this'll be the last time? Deal? A ten year old's grin spreads ear to ear.
Deal.
Feel that shimmy? That's your hind legs trying to outrun you're front.
What do I do?
Stop steering and start driving. Speed gets serious, his lips tightening the way a hand knots into a fist.
This ain't no dead piece a metal. A car's a living breathing thing. She's alive. You can feel her talking to you, telling you what she wants, what she needs. You just gotta listen. Speed tries to listen.
Close your eyes and listen. Speed does.
They say that Ben burns drove the last lap of the '68 Vanderbilt Cup with his eye closed.
No way!
No? Well maybe you can't hear it then. Maybe. you ought to start hitting those books--
No! I hear it!
That so? Okay Mr. Burns, you tell me when to gas it for the jump.
Speed concentrates..
Now?
Uh-uh. The jump glides towards them as the tires seem to whisper to Speed.
Now! Rex smiles, hitting the gas, launching the car into the air where it seems to hang fora moment before rushing down at us as we cut--
--local fan favorite, Speed racer is just gobbling up this track, slipping car after car--
--clearly a rising star, with several big wins since turning pro, though he remains without a major sponsor--
--a win tonight could put him within range of qualifying for the Grand Prix--
--let us hope he does not make the same mistakes that his older brother made--
He hears a voice in his headset.
Head's up,.Speed! Seven o'clock. I got Snake drafting.Pitter-pat. Speed looks into his mirror and sees a car with orange and black markings, stacked up tight behind another car.
I got him.
Sparky is watching through binoculars.
I figure he'll slingshot after you in the next turn.
I'm ready.
Great move, Speed. Careful on the butterfly coming up. You may wanna ease up--
Not this time, Sparky.
Holy canoli, Speed, You know who you're racing?
He can see him.
Yeah... Just ahead, the ghost of his brother's car launches up the second jump and when ti comes down we are back in the past.
Rex's gonna win, ain't he, Pops? Pops checks his watch but almost can't believe it. He goes back to his binoculars.
He's gonna win it. He's gonna set the course record. Nobody's gonna catch him.
Quiet, Speed! There's a lotta race to run.
No way. It's over. My brother's the best racer in the world. Everybody else is running for second. The cars rocket through the twisted mobius of steel.
I told you to take him out!
As Speed makes his move, he pulls us back into the present.
--it's unbelievable folks, no one's seen moves like this, since that remarkable night eight years
--driving like a man possessed, a man haunted by his past---
--a record that has stood for eight years set by.his,older--
--he is not alone out there, he is chasing someone, he is chasing the ghost of Rex Racer--
Pops stands beside Mom. He is still watching the race with his trusty binos though he is now a little older, plumper and balder.. He clicks his stopwatch, checking it at the same time that Sprittle checks his. Sprittle stands on the chair next to him.
Jeepers, he could do it, Pops. He could really do it, couldn't he? Pops goes back to his binos.
What if he does? What if he does it, Pops?
Sssh!
I don't know if I can watch this... He holds the binos as though afraid to look when-- A hairy hand comes in and takes them away. Chim-chim, sitting on the chair next to Sprittle, puts the binos to his eyes. Speed flies through a piece of tricky track drawing another cheer. Sprittle grabs the binos back just as the beautiful young woman, standing on the other side of Pops, lowers her. Trixie chews at her lip, feeling a knot twist into her gut.
Speed's not crazy.
Whatever it is, when their eyes suddenly meet, he finds he is unable to look away-- Staring at her, as he drives off the road, crashing through a hedge and tumbling down a hill.
Speed! She runs to help him. He is laying sprawled out, his car on its side, wheels still spinning.
Are you alright? He's a bit groggy.
.who are you?
I'm Trixie. I'm in your class.
.oh .yeah. He stares at her for a minute, powder-puffs of clouds floating about her head.
He, would you like to see my car
She smiles.
I'd love to.
Hey, Rex. Hey Pops.
Hey, Speedy.
Who's your friend?
Her name's Trixie. She's in my class.
Hi.
Pleasure to meet you, young lady.
Hey pops, a guy wanted me to give this to you. He said he was a big fan. He hands him the package and Pops smiles.
A fan, is it? Not often we get someone with such good taste around here. Where is he?
He was in a hurry. Driving a '68 Fendersin. Sweet set. of wheels. The car description rings a bell for Rex.
Let me see that. He grabs the box, then holds it to his ear. It's ticking. He jams it into the go-cart, against the pedal and slaps it in reverse. The go--.cart shoots out of the garage and down the driveway until-- It explodes, an enormous fireball ballooning up past the tree tops. Trixie's eyes flash with excitement.
Cool beans!
Through the magnifying lenses we see Speed flying around the track.
--no one from these parts will forget the tragic story of Rex
--single-handedly tried to save
--one of the greatest scandals in the history of the sport--
--it is always the brightest star that burn out the fastest--
Can I go with you, Re
Not this time, Speedy.
When are you coming back?
I don't know. I don't know. He snaps the bag shut.
Look, Speed... one day people might say things about me. No matter what they say, I hop... I just hope you never believe them.
I won't. He hugs his little brother, knowing it might be for the last time.
So, you're quitting?
I have to.
No you don't. This is a choice. You're selling out, walking away from everything we've built here.
I'm done arguing with you Pops. He turns back towards the door.
Don't you walk away from me!
You can't tell me what to do. It's my life to live. He takes hold of the doorknob.
If you walk out that door, you better not ever come back! The door slams in response.
watching a big race that Rex is in. Mom and Pops are the couch behind him. All of them sit in.a suspended state, a fist of tension squeezing the breath out of them. One the screen, is a cloud of smoke billowing from a tangle of metal.
Rex Racer riving the black and red Uniron car, got in a tangle with Richenhbach, who had been favored to win--
That was no tangle, he took Richenbach out--
We don't know that but I imagine the WRL will be reviewing this crash.
That's the third DNF crash Racer's been involved in! Review it? Heck, the oughta just suspend him.
Turn it off, Speed! I don't want you watching this anymore.
Rex Racer almost took Yokima's head off wit that jump!
There's absolutely no doubt in my mind that Rex Racer is the dirtiest driver in the world. Lit by the soft glow of the small tv, Speed blinks and the first tears slip silently down his cheeks.
I just told him the truth! His crum-bum brother doesn't belong on a racetrack-- he belongs in jail! Speed tears free and torpedoes Big Mouth again.
--the trial of Rex Racer shook the World Racing League to tis very
--the indictment brought down perennial racing powerhouse
--Uniroyal was linked to the notorious fixer Blackjack Benelli--
--still in prison to this day, Benelli was rumored to be behind the Casa Cristo tragedy-- The two cars swerve, heading for a collision as we cut--
Something happens and Mom drops her glass. It shatters but no one seems to notice. Young Speed is transfixed by the horror of what is playing out, the images of fire and flashing lights, reflecting in his eyes.
--he's comin'hard, it's gonna be
--there's a new Racer in town--
--poised to wipe the slate clean--
--escaping the dark shadow of his older brother-- The checkered flag goes up, ready as the two cars come screaming towards the finish line-- The large digital clock seemingly synchronized with the past as--. Speed looks over at the ghost car, the faintest smile on his lips as he sees his older brother and then-- Takes his foot off the accelerator, letting Rex's car surge ahead, crossing just before Speed. The time is just over the record causing disappointment to ripple through the crowd except for-- The Racer family who seem both relived and happy.
Come on, Let's go! Victory Lane!
Zut alors! What a race!
--by a cat's whisker--
--the record still stands--
--Folks, I knew Rex Racer and if he's up there somewhere watching this race, you can bet your ass, he's damn proud of his little brother.
A beautiful woman wearing nerdy-glasses sits watching the television from the leather banquette. She has a body made of the same kind of lines that a sports car or a high-heel has, lines that make your head turn. This is Minx. Beside her is a brooding, muscled man, his attention we don't riveted as Speed pulls into Victory Lane. Though see his face, this is Racer X.
He' going to be very good.
No. He's going to be the best. The crowd swarms around Speed's car.
If they don't destroy him first.
Mom is. cooking breakfast. Before she can get phone, Sprittle grabs it.
Racer residence.
Good morning, I was hoping to speak with Speed racer.
He's not interested. He hangs up.
Sprittle!
It's true!
That's not for you to say.
Speed's gotta drive for Pops!
That's for Speeed to decide. The phone rings again. Sprittle grabs it quickly.
Hello?
Nope. He hangs up. Shrugs.
Wrong number.
Speed now sleeps in Rex's old room. The poster of Burns is still tacked to the wall above the bed. Mom opens the door.
Come on, Champ. Rise and shine. Breakfast's ready. to the Speed's hair.seems to remain asleep, still molded pillow as he tries to push himself up.
.I'm up, I'm up.
Mom spatulas another short stack of pancakes from griddle and shovels them like coal into the blazing maw of a locomotive, dumping them onto the plates of Sprittle and Chim-chim.
They eat ravenously, trying to secretly steal food from each other's plates while Pops reads from the Racing News.
"It was a virtuoso display of talent, the likes of which has not been seen at Thunderhead since Racer the elder dropped jaws eight. years ago. Now, as we once again, pull our collective jaws up from the floor, we have to ask, will it be different this time, or will
That's enough of that, Hon. Pops puts down the paper and Sparky picks it up.
I just can't believe there wasn't one mention of Racer motors in there.
That's because the Sponsors run the media, Sparky. Trixie enters through the back door.
Mornin' everyone. Is Speed up yet? Speed stumbles in the door.
.in spirit anyway.
Hey superstar, did you see the papers? They're all in love with you.
Really? He sits, grabbing the paper.
Yeah, but there sure is a lot of speculation about which team's going to pick him up
.really? Speed starts to read and suddenly the room begins to rumble, glasses shaking, plates rattling.
What the--?
Earthquake! He and Chim-chim begin wailing in panic.
Quick, under the table! Into the door-frame!
Sprittle calm down!
Pops the kitchen's the most dangerous room in a house during an earthquake! The whole table shivers and it seems the hanging ceiling light might shake free when the tremor begins to subside. Sprittle and Chim-chim, wearing a pot and a metal colander for protection, look around, expecting something bad to happen. The house becomes pin-prick quiet when-- The doorbell rings.
On their doorstep is an extremely well dressed older man carrying a bouquet of flowers and box of cigars. His smile is as bright and shiny as a surgeon's scalpel. He says, "Good morning, Mr. And Mrs. Racer" but no once can hear him over the howl of the turbines. He gestures, asking permission to come in. Pops lets him by and closes the door, immediately reducing the noise.
Uh, thanks but... who are you? He seems to rise up an inch taller as he introduces himself.
Mr. Racer, I have been an ardent admirer of your work for years. I remember the first time I saw the prototype for the Mach-1, I told everyone that it didn't belong on a race track, it belonged in an art museum. Pops chuckles.
Yeah, she was a beaut.
No, sir. She was a revelation. He suddenly smells the pancakes.
Oh, dear. I interrupted your breakfast. Is that pancakes, I smell?
Are you hungry, Mr. Remmington?
A figure like mine requires constant attention, Mrs. Racer.
Do you like pancakes?
When I was a child we used to say, "pankuken zin liesben." Neither of them speak German.
Pancakes are love.
Sprittle and Chim--chim sit on either side of him, their gunsel eyes train on his every move.
Gorgeous, Mrs. Racer. Superb density. Hints of vanilla. Cinnamon. Absolutely gorgeous.
I'm glad you like them.
Like them? I want to-buy your recipe. He takes out his hand held computer and beings making notes.
I can give you the recipe, Mr. Remmington.
Nonsense. Cenestro Foods, a sub- division of Remmington Industries is planning a new range of home- cooked meals for travelers and this is just the kind of magic we're looking for. I'll have my attorney draw up the paperwork. Mom looks at Pops feeling flattered but again a distinct discomfort.
Now, then. We all know the reason I'm here is because of you, Speed. I was watching last night and I have to tell you young man, you gave me goosebumps. I know at once, this was no mere driver I was watching. This was an artist. Speed's ears go a bit red.
Driver's only as good as the car.
I appreciate modesty, Speed but I do not exaggerate when is ay that you are a genius. Watching you reminded me of why I love racing and I am grateful for that. Thank you.
You're welcome, I guess.
I imagine the phone has been ringing off the hook.
Speed's not interest in driving for you or any other sponsor.
Is this your manager then?
He's our youngest. Sprittle.
Nice to meet you, youngster.
Remmington offers his hand but Sprittle doesn't take it.
We got out eye on you, Mister.
Excellent. The first thing I want to make perfectly clear is that I have no intention whatsoever of trying to get Speed away from Racer motors. What you have here is what teams spend years and millions of dollars trying to achieve: chemistry. Car designer, mechanic and driver all coming together in perfect, harmony. I wouldn't dare touch a thing.
Well, excuse me for asking, but what do you want?
To help. I want to make sure you have access to whatever resources you need to continue doing exactly what you are doing.
I assume, Mr. Remmington that you are not talking about philanthropy. Remmington chuckles.
I like when my partners have a sense of humor. And that's what I'm talking about. A partnership. An alliance between your amazing family and mine. That's exactly what Remmington Industries is to me, a family. Like yours. Just a little bigger. Pops isn't exactly buying it.
No offense, Remmington but Racer Motors runs as an independent.
None taken. I completely understand. I sympathize.
Strike that-- I sympathize. You may think of R. I. As a huge corporate conglomerate but I will have you know sire, that I still remember working all night on a Commodore 64 in the basement of my foster parents' home. I build R.I. From below the ground up. So while Remmington Industries may look like a Major Sponsor to you, it remains in my heart as independent to me as the first day I quit my job at GloBocom to work for myself. They're 're stunned into silence, while Remmington presses on.
Now I've had this wonderful opportunity to meet your family. All I am asking is for you to please give me the chance to introduce you to.mine.
I've never flown so low through the city.
Special permit. Only six of them are granted a year.
Sprittle and Chim-chim are gawking at something else: the vertical pull-out drawer lined with every kind candy in the world.
Take whatever you like. He looks at her for a moment like is in love, then turns back to the drawer where he and Chim-chim lunge for it, pushing each other back.
Sprittle!
She said we could! Pop growls at him, his eyes telling them they'd better not take more than one piece. Hang-dogged heads, they each grab one piece of candy?
What do you say?
Thank you. She closes the drawer, their eyes seen through the racks, watching paradise disappear as though a mirage.
Hey, there's the Grand Prix Coliseum! Sprittle and Chim-chim rush to Sparky's window. They can see the entire track and even from this height it seems enormous. Sprittle turns to Remmington.
My brother's going to win the Grand Prix one day. Remmington's eyes glint.
No doubt in my mind; young man. Given the right circumstances, I have no doubt whatsoever.
The K-Harrier glides gracefully down to the private landing pad.
This is Gennie. She's our Talent Manager. Ask for anything, her job's to make it come true.
Hi, Speed. Welcome to Remmington. He shakes her hand while she signals to another man who immediately begins scanning speed with an electronic measuring device.
What's this?
To make an informed decision you'll need to understand how we take care of our drivers. The tailor finishes quickly as an electric cart, the kind designed for a group tour pulls up.
All abroad.
Cool!. They climb on and the driver pulls into the tramway.
There are a lot of signs, directional and advertisements hawking the widely varied Remmington products. The red lines lead to doors emblazoned with "Restricted Access." There is a fair bit of hustle and bustle, like a busy street as golf carts, seg-ways and motorized scooter zip to and fro. No one walks.
Remmington Tower is the crown jewel among the properties that I control. It functions as the corporate headquarters for he top twelve divisions of our parent corp. One big industries family. The turn a corner heading for a large set of doors with the double "R" logo of Remmington Racecars.
Of all the 143 companies that I control, none of them is as dear to my heart as the T-180 division. The door opens as they enter---
I've always felt that it is impossible to peer into the window of Tomorrow without a clear view of the Past.
That's the Crystal Horse with the Apache Super--Charger!
Winner of the Grand Prix in '69, ' 70 and '73.
No. Wrong. '72. '71 was the Vundervopper with the K-2 twin turbine and '73 was the Kenobe Motorstar re-built with a VC ;triple chamber. Remmington considers arguing.
Don't bother. He's never wrong. They pass out of the museum.
The bank of windows overlooks the enormous facility. It is a state of the art assembly line that rises vertically, instead of horizontally. The chassis arrives at the bottom and is born up by a mechanical arm, rotating as each platform assembles the next piece. The far wall is nothing but glass providing a sun- drappled_vista of Cosmopolis.
Our vertically integrated plant is the fastest in the world. From initial carbon bond to finished car in 36 hours. How long does it take at Racer Motors?
Several weeks at least. Remmington turns to Pops.
This kind of production facility could be at your disposal, Mr. Racer. The cart motor hums and slides back onto the tramway.
This is our operating theater where our patented Refusion Energy Distributor Network is installed in the turbine drive. Sparky's eye light up.
Is that an inner-positive transponder?
It is indeed. Sparky shoots a look at Pops.
We control the only transponder foundry in the world outside of Mushi Motors in Taiobi. The window suddenly turns into a mirror.
Oops. Sorry. Trade Secrets.
Now, I'll take you up to the Team Remmington training facility. The west door opens and the cart glides out into a new tramway which is not as industrial feeling as the first one, decorated with a vinyl wainscotting and slightly up- graded lights. The higher you go in the Remmington Tower, the nicer the halls are decorated.
As you know, a T-180 driver's got to be in peak physical condition. Across from the gym is a smaller window where the typical anaerobic test is being conducted on a female driver. She is running on a treadmill with lost of wires hooked up to her while several doctors not their approval at the read- outs.
No expense is spared to make sure that when our driver's suit up they are as perfectly tuned as the machines they are controlling. The next window is a massive centrifuge; a huge mechanical arm whipping around a small capsule that blasts past the window.
The best driver must be able to withstand over 4-Gs of force in a typical race.
On the opposite wall is the vibration chamber. A man is strapped to a chair that is vibrating so hard you expect his eyeballs to rattle out. The next window is an underwater tank where a man is driving in a mock up cockpit, executing peddle maneuvers and gear shifts.
The will to win is nothing without the will to prepare and at Team Remmington we prepare our drivers for any eventuality and every possible condition. The final window is the weather chamber where a driver is again in a mock cockpit, blue-lipped and shivering while snow and wind buffet him.
I hope I didn't care you, Speed with how hard we push our team. I just wanted you to see how serious we are committed to winning.
I get that.
Good. But also understand that R.I. Isn't all work and no play. The door opens revealing the Drivers' Club.
That's Cannonball Taylor! Speed urns and sees the Captain of the Remmington Team.
Stop the cart. Jack! Jack, come here. There's someone I want you to meet. Cannonball saunters over, wearing his two goiter-sized, diamond-encrusted champion rings.
Speed Racer allow me to introduce two-time Grand Prix Winner, five time WRL Champion and future Hall of Famer, Jack Cannonball Taylor.
Honor to meet you.
Caught that Thunderhead replay. Nice piece of work.
Wow, thanks.
There was a rumor you might be visiting.
It's pretty impressive.
Only thing I cared about was that wall over there. He gestures to a special wall fitted with the trophies and medals won by team Remmington through the years.
That' what sold me. You want to win in this league, you're talking to the right guy. Remmington beams.
Thanks, Jack. Jack nods and the cart pulls away but not before Jack shoots a backward glance at Speed that feels like a shank in a prison yard.
Sparky whistles and whispers to Speed.
Long way from Nob Hill, eh?
We treat our thoroughbreds the way they deserve to be treated. He guides them into the room gesturing or demonstrating all of the amenities.
There's full maid service of course with a personal chef and a masseuse available 24/7. The staff arrives, wheeling in several racks of clothes: daywear, sportswear, racing uniforms and stylish evening wear. Gennie holds up one of the suit to Speed.
Should be perfect. Try it on.
Mmm hmm!
.okay. He heads to the bathroom. Taking Mom by the elbow, Remmington gestures to the sitting area over-looking Cosmopolis.
So Mrs. Racer, what do you think about my family? Impressed?
You could say that.
Good. I want you to understand the possibilities that exist for your son right now. Pops furrows his brow.
What's wrong Mr. Racer?
To be honest, Remmington, I'm feeling more intimidated than impressed. This kind of company scares me. People like you have way too much money and when someone has this kind of money, they start thinking that the rules everyone else is playing by don't mean squat to them. Remmington remains skillfully unfazed.
However, my sons are the most important thing I've ever done in my life, besides marrying my best friend and if Speed wants us to figure out some kind of... "alliance" then you can bet your ass we'll be in business. Speed steps out of the bathroom. His boyishness has faded away as he suddenly seems very much a man. Gennie smile approvingly.
Hubba hubba. He walks over to the sitting area.
Oh honey, you looks so handsome.
Yeah?
Very sharp, Speed. Suits you perfectly. Regardless of what happens, I want you to have all of it. A gift.
Thanks, Mr. Remmington.
So, how are you feeling Speed? Speed isn't sure. He looks at Trixie and Sparky and then at his parents.
It's very... impressive. Remmington smiles.
You think that maybe there's something that could work out here? Everyone waits, staring at him.
I guess I'd like to think about it, if I .could. has really Remmington's a fisherman not sure if the hook been set.
This isn't the kind of offer I go around making ever day, son.
I understand that, sir... He looks to Pops then takes a deep breath as though trying to find his resolve.
So if I had to give an answer now then, to be honest--
Stop. Right there. You're right. You should think about it. I'm sure you're feeling a bit overwhelmed. You should take a little time. Think about what you saw and heard here and we'll get together early next week. Deal? He reaches his hand out and Speed takes it with some obvious relief.
Deal.
Ithought we had a deal... When he hears the voice, he lifts his head and we see a huge man with a body like a cement-lined safe, sitting behind a desk, lighting a cigar. This well-dressed fixer is Cruncher Block.
I thought we were friends. He blows a cloud of smoke and watches it float up to the chandelier which is jiggling steadily.
Maybe where you come from, this is how you treat your friends, but 'round here we don't take to kindly to this kind of thing, do we fellas? Thug #1 steps in and wails away on him again.
You hurt our feelings!
Problem is, I like you Katsu. Cruncher grins, his teeth like stacked dice.
And I got a real soft spot in my heart for that sister of yours. He begins opening a large package wrapped with butcher paper. -Inside is a bloody rack of ribs.
Normally in a situation such as this we would be pouring you a nice comfy pair of cement shoes, but... He stands and goes to the large glowing fish tank that is behind the desk.
I think I got another solution.. He dips the bloody meat into the tank filled with piranha. The water foams as the carnivorous fish shred flesh from bone.
How're my babies doing? Huh? Hungry? Ready for seconds? Boys! They grab Katsu and haul him to the fishtank.
No!
Hope dem fishes like Japanese.
No, please!
Gonna be hard to drive with skellie hands. Cruncher takes hold of Katsu's jaw.
You even think about turning rat and next time it's your sister going in there.
Cruncher grabs the phone on his desk.
What?!
Someone's tailing us.
is it him?
It could be. Cruncher goes to the phone.
Can you see him yet?
Here he comes-- The car pulls up even with the cab and the driver feels his gut clench as he recognizes the infamous car of Racer
Oh God...
Get him! Everyone leaps into action, shoving Katsu back into a chair. Filling their fists with guns, sliding open murder holes slots at a variety of heights. Cruncher barks into the phone.
Crush him!
But the little black tinted bug flits away with effortless ease, dancing out in front of the truck.
He grabs the controls which are linked to an infrared sighting camera.
Where is he?
He's out front.
Cruncher sights the car.
Gotcha. He fires a mini-rocket straight at the manta-finned car-- But with a quick feint left the rocket skims by, exploding further down the highway. Something flashes on the back car as hidden tubes iris open and the barrels of several weapons extend out.
Here he comes! Cruncher fires again, the red rocket just missing, rending open the tree line with a fireball.
The little car drops back alongside the truck and fires, bullets bursting tires and puncturing through the walls of the truck. The truck lurches as the thugs fire wildly at the black car. Cruncher tries to site the machine gun but just as he opens fire-- The black car slows, drawing the chasing gun fire until Cruncher shoots his own tires.
Aww, I thought you fixed that! The black car fires again, bullets ricocheting inside, puncturing a hole in the fish tank.
Boss!
My babies! He runs to the fish tank and tries to stop the water pouring out of the hole. He sticks his finger in and the fish immediately attack. He shrieks withdrawing his finger.
Vinny put your finger in there! Vinny doesn't want to.
Do it!
We can't take another hit boss!
Pull over but don't stop.
The back of the truck slides up and the gangsters toss Katsu out, leaving him behind with a spray of gravel. Katsu looks up into the glaring lights of the black car. A car door opens. Boots crunch gravel as someone walks toward us silhouetted by car lights. It is the masked racer himself--- Racer x.
Thank you. You saved my life.
I didn't save anything worth saving unless you get smart. Real fast. Racer talks without looking at him.
You thought you could take on the Cartel. You can't. Not without help.
I don't know what'you're talking about.
You won the Cortex Invitational and you weren't supposed to. You did it to save Okamoto Engineering.
It has belonged to my family for five generations.
And now someone else wants it. The only way you can stop it from happening is to talk to the authorities.
There is nothing to talk about.
You have been on cruncher Block's leash for.so long maybe you forgot how it feels to stand up and be a man. The only way you'll ever stop these people is to bring them to justice.
Justice/ That's a commodity I don't waste money on. Racer X immediately pulls his car over.
Get out. Wearing his smirk like a cheap suit, Katsu gets out.
I'll see you at Fuji.
You won't finish. When you lose, if you can still dial a phone, call this number. He hands him a card. The card reads; CHIEF INSPECTOR
Sprittle is working hard on a test when he hears the behind him whisper.
Hey monkey-lover, show me your test or I'll kick your ass after school.
Sorry. Cheaters never prosper. The kid to the left chimes in.
Spriiiitle, when Chim-chim's bad, do you spank the monkey?
No, your mother does it for me. Malcom almost swallows his tongue as several other kids snicker..
All right! Malcom! Danny! Sprittle! To the Principal's office. March! There is a chorus of, "I didn't do it, awwww, not fair."
Now!
Looks like someone's in trouble again.
Want to talk about it? Sprittle shakes his head.
K-W Integral 4-door with twin-cam turbine...C-foster-K 1200, modified split-rail and supershocks...
Was it that Stanton kid again? Did he say something? If you want to kick his butt--? He shakes his head again.
.it doesn't seem fair that I get in trouble, when they always start it.
It's not fair. But that's what bullies do. They make the world unfair.
That sucks.
Yes, it does.
What can I do about it?
You ignore 'em when you can, fight 'em when you can't.
Those choices suck too.
Yeah, but just try to keep one thing in mind.
What?
Bullies come and go but a family can torture you forever. Chim-chim gives Sprittle a wet-willy.
Heeeeeey! Speed laughs as Chim-chim howls and then puts his arm around Sprittle.
But no joke, you just say the word, little brother and we got your back, right Chim-chim? Chim-chim grunts.
Thanks guys.
The new GRX has a super charged inner-positive transporter and will be capable of speeds in excess off 800 kilometers an hour. Mushi nods.
If such a car were to win the Grand Prix this year, one would expect the demand for transponders to increase dramatically.
One would expect.
And if a single company gained control of all the transponder foundries in the world, one might expect that company to do very well for itself.
You know what I want and I know that for the last few years you have been trying to buy out your main rival Tetsua Okamoto. The question is, can we make a deal? The car rotates, rising up on its mechanical arm, a cybernetic giant, exercising its might.
Deliver Okamoto at that price and the Taiobi Transponder foundry is yours.
Done. Remington smiles as they shake hands.
watching the sinking sun tye-dye the sky behind the scape of freeways.
You're really considering signing with Remmington.
I just said it was tempting.
Why?
Well, they got a really good team.. Cannonball Taylor, Markie Manifold. They win a lot of Majors.
Since when did winning become so important?
It is important. You gotta win if you want to keep driving and that's what I want to do. It's the only thing I really know how to do. When I'm driving, I feel like that's the only time my life makes sense. She moves closer to him.
You mean, this doesn't make sense to you?
Okay, besides being with you.
So you like being with me?
You know I do.
Sometimes I do, sometimes I'm not so sure.
What?
Sometimes around your family, you seem distant, not like this and I wonder why.
Come on, you know how I've felt about you since I was ten years old.
I guess so, I just wish you weren't so shy about it.
What do you want me to do? Kiss you in front of everyone at the end of a big race?
Would that be so terrible?
I don't know. Maybe we should practice first.
Maybe we should. They start to kiss when they hear a muted voice.
Oh God! I'm gonna hurl! Huuuurrrl!
Sprittle?
No!
Speed jumps out of the car.
He did not! He throws open the trunk, revealing Sprittle and Chim-chim who shrieks.
Sprittle!
It wasn't my idea!
Oh no?
It was his! He points at Chim-chim who shakes his head wildly, pointing back at Sprittle.
Wait till we tell Pops.
No! Don't do that! We're sorry. We couldn't sleep. We just wanted to hang out. We didn't know you were going to In-spew-ration Point. By the way, Cootie-shots. Sprittle and Chim-chim immediately cover one shoulder giving themselves a cootie-shot.
I'm taking you home.
Wait, wait, wait-- Speed slamsthe trunk shut so we hear Sprittle voice muffled
Can we stop for ice cream first?
He is carrying a brown paper sack.
Morning, Speed.
Pops.
So, today's the big day. Speed nods. Pops puts down his tools.
I know this is a tremendous opportunity for you.
It could be for you too.
Could be, could be. But, regardless, this is really all about you. It' your decision and I want you to know, no matter what you decide, I'm behind you.
Thanks, Pops. The room begins to shake.
I think your ride's here.
Speed stares out the window, chewing on his decision a dog worrying a bone.
Gennie greets Speed as he debarks from the plane. He carrying his brown sack.
Speed, so nice to see you again. Her,eyes and the softness of her touch elevate flirting to something that is equal parts art and science.
Mr. Remmington is so excited about this meeting. He hasn't talked about anything else all week. Speed sighs.
Speed! Gennie leaves speed, returning to the elevator, as Remmington crosses to him. He hugs him
Welcome back! Come. Sit. Sit.
In the center of the room is a small cluster of extremely comfortable chairs in which they sit. Above them a multifaceted skylight glitters like a cut gem under the streaming rays of sunlight. In the center of the sky light is the R.I. Logo casting a great shadow on the floor.
Can I get you something to drink? Water? Bubbly? A shot of rye? Speed smiles sheepishly.
No... I'm okay.
So, I can see you have given some serious thought to this thing.
I have, yes sir.
Good. That means that you understand that we are talking about not just your future, but your family's future.
.my family means a lot to me.
I know. I can tell. That's why this is so important. Because you can help them. All you have to say is yes. That is all I need to hear and I can make so many things happen for you, and your family. Are you ready for that? Are you ready to say yes, Speed?
A cleaning man is rising up on a cherry picker with a cart full of cleaning supplies.
Uh-oh. He looks back at their mess.
jig's up. A moment later the door opens and the cleaning man enters..
Holy cooly: He grabs for his radio.
Hey, this is Marvin down at the landing pad. I think we got mice again. As he talks, two shadows slip quietly out the door behind him.
This isn't an easy decision for me, Mr. Remmington. For my family, racing is everything. We eat, drink, think and breathe racing. There is nothing more perfect than a picnic at Thunderhead. I mean, I was taught to drive before I could walk. But when my brother died, all that went away. I can't tell you how painful that was. It nearly killed all of us. Especially Pops. He didn't set foot in his shop for over a year. As the memory comes to life, we see the images in flashback.
But one night when I was still pretty young. I couldn't sleep and I went into the living room and there was Pops, in his beat up robe, watching some old race recordings. The blue tv light of Speed's memory fills his eyes.
So I sat with him watching of Ben Burns coming round the last turn of he '43 Prix and all of a sudden Pops started screaming, and then I started screaming, and as Burns and Dugazi duked it out, heading for the finish, we were cheering our heads off and the second the black and white came down, we looked at each other and right there we realized the naked truth; racing is in our blood. Flashback ends.
But for Pops, it isn't just a sport. It's way more important than that. It's like a religion and in our house, the Major Sponsors are kinda like the devil. The coldness in Remmington's eyes belies his smile.
I don't mean to offend you sir and I do appreciate your offer, it's just, I guess I understand his -point of view and after all we've been through, I don't think this kind of deal is for me. Remmington chuckles.
You poor, naive, chump. He chuckles again.
I'm going to pretend I didn't hear that load of sickening schmaltz and I am going to give you a bit of an education. At the end of it if you're smart, you'll thank me and hen you'll sign that contract.
Look. There is the true spirit of the golden age of racing. Benjamin Braddack, Diamond Dave Tweksbury, Reginald White, Oliver Potter, and George Wheeler. The five most powerful men in the world at the turn of the last century. As he talks we flash back to jittery old footage and photographs of the golden era.
For all intensive purposes they created the modern automotive industry. But the true stroke of their genius was the invention of the WRL, the world's first racing league. Remmington leads Speed past several personal mementos including the first motor of his first car, the first milk bottle from victory lane,.a black and white from an important race. In front of an enlarged picture of Ben Burns from the infamous '43 Prix is a twisted and scorched piece of metal set on a pedestal like a gorgeous piece of art.
Interesting that you and your father were so moved by the '43 Prix. One of the great finishes in the history of racing, right? Everyone remembers Burns and Dugazi slugging it out, but who remembers Carl Potts? Driving a rebuilt Wittigan for Iodyne . Industries, Potts spun out in the second lap and went down as a DNF. A forgettable and pathetic finish. So bad, that afterwards Iodyne stock dropped six points. Again we see the history told in flashback.
Meanwhile, Ben Burns sat guzzling cold fresh milk in victory lane, a thousand cameras taking his picture, Sirrus Aeronautics saw almost a twelve point gain which immediately block Penninsula Power Cell from being able to afford the price of a complete take-over. This put Joel Goldman, the CEO of Iodyne Inc. in the exact position he wanted to be in. By first buying controlling interest in his own company at a devalued price, he then brokered a merger with Sirrus that immediately sent Iodyne into the gains record book-- the only record book that matters. Look out that window, there isn't a single plane or helicopter or K- Harrier that isn't powered by Iodyne fuel cells. That's what racing is about. It has nothing to do with cars, or drivers. All that matters is power and the unassailable might of money. His greed is as tangible as any drug.
His radio buzzes "perps last seen tramway four, driving a maintenance cart." The doors start to close when Sprittle and Chim-chim jump out and sneak inside.
Do you understand? Burns knew he was going to win. It was already decided. A week before the Prix, Goldman and Sirrus met with several other major players at the Carlyle Hotel. They met there as they had for years, just as their fathers had met, and as their sons and heirs will still meet. They met to negotiate the finish order of the Grand Prix. No race is more important and no race is more controlled. That year Goldman was supposed to win, but he knew if he sold his win to Sirrus, whatever that win might be worth, was nothing compared to what could be gained. He turns back to the twisted piece of crash metal.
That's why I paid three million dollars for this burnt and twisted piece of metal. Because it reminds me of what really matters. This is the true heart of racing boy! This is my religion! Speed is aghast.
You don't know how many times I have seen that same cow-eyed "say it isn't so" look of disbelief. Every bumpkin who comes in from the sticks looks exactly like you do now. I won't bother proving it to you.
If you walk away from me, if you walk out of.this deal, you'll know how true it is soon enough. So, last chance. What's it going to be, Speed? Your father's little fantasy bubble? Or are you going to join the rest of us adults, here in reality?
As they realize what they are looking at, a security goon comes gliding up behind them on his seg-way.
What's this? He looks and sees the shoes and suit.
If that's your idea of racing, you can keep it.
Listen to me and listen good kid, because I'm going to give you one more history lesson. You're going to go to Fuji-- In quick, collage cuts we see --
But you won't win. You won't place. More collage cuts--
Speed Racer's making his move, gunning for the lead--
We got ourselves a real race here! The two cars start dancing around each other; like two boxers sizing each other up.
Here we go, here we go. Wham. Ghost throws the first punch which Speed tries to slip but, the Ghost anticipates his move and slams Speed hard.
Come on! Show me something! Show me what you got! Speed ducks down the bank, working each wheel into a hyper drift, reversing their position-- Locking the Ghost up and sending both cars spinning.
Ohhhh yeah! Yeeeeeahhhhh!
The Gray Ghost unloads a round- house, Speed counters, smashing, banging, bumping-
Here I come, kid! Watch out. Here I am! Nope--I'm over here! Wham! Wham! Speed tries to counter punch and the Ghost slips under.
You can't.touch me! I'm here! I'm gone! Speed is thrown back into the pack of cars that quickly swallow him up where he is-- Crunched into the wall by the Zokeo Communications car, pinned until-- Racer X slams into the Zokeo car, freeing Speed but causing several cars tp swerve wildly at which point-- The Three Roses car torpedoes Katsu's car-- Bursting into a blizzard of metal snowflakes while--
I guarantee you right now, you won't even finish the race.
Speed, get out of there!
I can't! I can't move! The two cars head toward the final jump, locked in some strange embrace-- They lunge awkwardly, crashing on top of one another as-- Inside Speed's car, his face plate seals and the kwiksave- foam explodes, swallowing him, as the car tumbles-- Disintegrating into a cloud of smoke and glittering debris.
Soon after that there will be litigation against some of your father's designs.
A dour-faced man beneath an umbrella is waiting for them.
Are you Pops Racer of Racer Motors-
Yeah, but I'm still on vacation-
You are hereby served a summons.
What?
You are being sued for IP infringement by Janus Automakers.
That's ridiculous!
That's for a jury to decide.
The legitimacy of the lawsuits won't matter. They will be enough to discredit his company. Whatever contracts he has, he'll lose. Within a year he will be filing for bankruptcy. After that, you and the rest of your pathetic family will be history. The threat hangs in the air like a loaded gun between them.
Pops was right. You are the devil. The elevator suddenly opens with the security goon carrying Sprittle and Chim-chim by the scruff of their necks.
Speed!
Sprittle?
Mr. Remmington I caught these two snooping in a restricted area.
Get this Racer trash out of my building.
I'll see you at Fuji. Speed turns and heads for the elevator.
Yes and then you'll realize that you just made the biggest mistake of your life!
". .controversy surrounds Racer Motors now embroiled in IP litigation and while evidence remains inconclusive whether or not Speed used an illegal device, the Fuji Helexicon seems destined to become another mark of shame added to the notorious Racer family legacy, a legacy that has forever tainted the integrity of this beloved sport."
Sparky. That's enough.
Sorry ma'am.
I'm going to send that guy some Chim-chim cookies. Chim-chim guffaws.
You'll do no such thing.
We gotta do something, Pops. Speed steps into the doorway.
This is exactly what he said would happen if I didn't drive for him.
You mean Remmington?
He said it'd get worse and worse and by the end of the year you'd be filing for bankruptcy, Pops.
Okay, he's definitely gettin' some monkey cookies.
Sprittle!
He was just trying to scare you, son. They tried the same thing with Rex. If it's a fight they want, it's a fight they'll get.
How? What can we do? How can we fight this? He tosses the newspaper.
The truth will come out.
The truth? Don't be naive, Pops. He leaves.
Speed? Are you okay?
.I don't know. She comes in and sits beside him, putting her arm around him.
It'll be okay. We'll get through it.
I don't know, mom. I might have really messed things up.
How?
By not joining Remmington.
Don't be silly. You'd have never been happy driving for that terrible man.
But maybe racing isn't about being happy. Maybe Remmington's right and it's all about business and anyone who doesn't understand that is just a chump.
Now you listen to me, young man. What you do behind the wheel of a racecar has nothing to do with business. Before you could even talk, you were making noises that sounded like a car engine. We used to tell people you were speaking car-ese. We used to try to take you to the park but you never wanted to get out of the car.
.I loved that old wagon.
And do you remember the time Rex took you out to Thunderhead and let you drive-- Speed smiles.
And I turned it over.
My heart still pounds just thinking about it.
Rex told me the only reason we survived was because I was wearing red socks.
I thought your father was going to have a stroke when you walked in the door with that crazy smile.
I don't think I ever saw you as happy as you were telling anybody who asked, how you lost your two front teeth in your first crash.
Speed, when I watch you do some of the things you do, I feel like I'm watching someone paint or play music. When I go to the races, I go to watch you make art and it's beautiful and inspiring and everything that art should be, even though there are times when I have to close my eyes. But then there are other times, when you just take my breath away and it's at those moments, when I feel your father's chest swell and I know he's smiling, trying to pretend he doesn't have tears in his eyes, I just go to pieces.
Why?
Because I am so impossibly proud to be your mother. And even though your father doesn't say it, he is too. She puts her arms around him.
Don't worry. We'll figure this out. We just have to stick together. Something good will happen. You'll see. Ding dong. The front doorbell chimes.
What are you two squawking about? They dive behind the couch but peek out as Pops heads for the door.
Pops, whatever you do, don't open the door!
This is a bad idea.
If it was any other driver, you'd be here. Popsopens the door and Racer X sets his jaw.
Inspector Detector?
Good morning, Mr.. Racer. I know it's been a long time--
He extends his hand and Pop shakes it.
Ten years.
Yes. I'm sorry for this intrusion, but I was hoping to have a word with you and Speed. Pops eyes the masked racer.
It's important.
We've been after Remmington for years for dozens of capital corporate crimes including WRL fixing but we haven't had the evidence we need to convict him. Until now. Sprittle and Chim-chim peek up from behind the couch as Mom offers the masked racer a cup of coffee.
Here you are, Mr. X. Sprittle points at Racer X.
What's he doing here?
Racer X works closely with our WRL corporate crimes division, helping us recruit drivers like you, Speed. Most of the media, which you are now seeing is controlled by the Major Sponsors and they have done their best to paint him as a menace to the sport. The truth is he's our most valuable weapon against these villains.
Why does he always wear that mask?
If any of, you actually knew his identity, you would become targets for his enemies which include some of the most vicious Fixers in the world. Gulp. They both sink back down behind the couch.
What do you want with me?
You're familiar with the driver Katsu Okamoto?
Of course.
For years he has been contracted by a Fixer named Cruncher Block who we know works for Remmington. Recently, Katsu has been forced to lose races that have led to a droop in the stock price of Okamoto Engineering. We believe this is a part of a corporate strategy to allow Mushi motors to buy control of Okamoto. Katsu doesn't want this to happen and he began resisting, thinking.that he could do it on his own. After Fuji, he realized he needed help.
,Why help him?
Because he has a file with enough information to connect Block to Remmington which could put both of them behind bars for the rest of their lives. The problem is, he won't give us the file unless we help him stop the take over of his family's company.
How?
There is an up-coming race that Katsu believes if he can win, it will catapult Okamoto Engineering back into the spotlight and double the cost of the buy out which should kill it.
But there aren't any more races left except for the Grand Prix and we both failed to qualify. Inspector takes a big breath.
There aren't any track races. This is a cross-country rally.
You mean The Crucible?
What?!
I know it seems cruel of me to ask, but Katsu made it clear that he had to have Speed an X on his team or there would be no deal.
Absolutely out of the question.
You'll have the support of the entire C.I.B--
No! Rally racing is a back alley sport full of jackals, head- hunters and thugs! I'm sorry, Inspector but I lost one son to that death-trap. I won't lose another.
I understand. If you change your
He starts to take out his card.
Keep your card, Chief Inspector.
Speed looks at Pops, then realizes that Racer X is staring straight at him.
And the way he was looking at me, I don't know...I just gotta do something.
But Pops will never let you go.
He won't if I ask him.
Speed Racer what are you thinking?
You weren't in Remmington's office, Trix. You don't know what it was like. It felt as though he had his hand inside my chest and he was trying to crush everything in my life that mattered to me.
I hate him. I'm picturing his heart clogging with cholesterol right now.
No joke, Trix. If you could have been in that room, you'd want to do anything you could to take this guy down. She looks straight into his eyes and he doesn't have to say anything else.
All right. Let's do it. You're going to need an alibi. We'll say we're going skiing.
What? No way!
You're going to need my help. Casa Cristo is a rally. I can spot from a 'copter.
Trixie, this isn't a game. These people play rough.
I know. That's why I'm coming with you. And if you even try to argue with me, I'll tell Pops right now and he won't let you out of his sight.
You would, wouldn't you? He looks into her eyes and knows the answer.
Well...I guess we're going skiing. She smiles.
As I'm sure you're aware, the Okamoto stock fell another four points yesterday. In the next few days it will hit bottom and they will have to sell. The car roars through its elliptical path like a circling electron binding the two tycoons together.
This could be a most profitable year for Remmington. Remmington can't hide the glow.
Mushi won't do too badly either. Mushi nods. Cannonball circles, everything in apparent harmony until Gennie leans in and whispers.
I know this is terrible timing sir, but I've just received confirmation of several last minute entries to the Casa Cristo
Who?
You're not going to like it.
We're just minutes away from the start of the 82nd annual Casa Cristo Classic, the grand dame of cross-country, the second oldest rally race in the world, spanning two continents, three climate changes and five thousand kilometers of the most winding and treacherous roads ever raced. Heturns to his colleague.
With me again is five time Casa Cristo champion, Johnny "Goodboy" Jones.
Always great to be here. Such a beautiful city.
One of the most romantic cities in the world.
Cruncher stands at the window balcony looking out over the white-washed city.
Is there anything else I can do for you, sir?
Yeah ...I wanna send someone a present.
Safety has been the primary concern for Casa Cristo officials, especially the last few years.
That's right Bob. There were a number of fatalities several years ago. It really had a bad reputation for a while.
Fans started calling it "The Crucible."
Most of the T-180 drivers wouldn't come near it.
But you look today, we've got some major names like Millie "the mouse" Manno, Snake Oiler and Katsu Okamoto as well as the young rising star Speed Racer. Not to mention, the shadow that seems to hang over every major race these days, the masked racer that some fans call the Harbinger of Boom. What's your take on Racer X?
Obviously he is an extremely talented and disciplined driver.
But is he a head hunter?
I think he drives like he'is not always interested in winning.
Nuff' said.
But remember Colton, these are standard road cars, not T-180s. I know a lot of T-180 drivers who I raced against who expected to win but found out racing a few laps on a track is a totally different animal than a cross-country rally.
The marathon as opposed to the sprint?
Exactly. This isn't just about going fast. It's about endurance. More than anything, winning Casa Cristo is a test of will.
Speed, I want you to understand how much the C.I.B. appreciates your help on this.
I'm not doing this to help C.I.B. I don't know anything about corporate crimes and honestly, if I did, it wouldn't really matter.
I'm doing this because someone is trying to hurt my family and I'm going to do everything I can to hurt him back. The masked racer is unable to mask his smile.
The reason.T-180 drivers have always come to Casa Cristo is because the winner is automatically offered an invitation to the Grand Prix next week. A hold over from the days when rally racing was far more popular then track racing.
Gosh how things have changed.
He says it's for Horuko, from an admirer. Katsu looks at the ribboned box as the guard runs his metal detector over it.
You see how we have to live? He ignores her, turning away as she starts to open it. She screams. Inside the goldfish bowl the piranha shreds a piece of meat that could be a finger, staining-the water red.
To compete in this race, you really have to have a killer instinct. Any sign of weakness or timidness is like blood in the water and you'll see how fast this race turns into a feeding frenzy.
We're going to need some insurance for this race. Minx clicks away at a keyboard while a digital Mach 5 rotates on a screen.
Minx builds my cars.
Nice to meet ya. She purrs in response. Racer X nods and she uses the computer to illustrate her modifications.
Their cars will probably be equipped with secret weapons so we have modified your car to try to counter their attacks. The "A" button will operate your normal jump-jacks. The Mach 5 flips over on the screen highlighting the newly installed jump-jacks.
"B" will seal your cockpit, which we've fortified with a bulletproof polymer. Gun-bots fire digital bullets at the Mach 5 which ricochet off the blueprint glass.
"C" will inflate an emergency hexadyno spare after any blowout. Avatar vandals slash the Mach 5's tires, which explode then re-inflate.
"D" will activate these zircon tipped saw blades that will cut through anything that tries to attach itself to you. The Mach 5 opens like a Swiss army knife.
"E" will project the tire crampons. The image zooms in on the newly equipped cat-claw tires.
And "F" will launch a remote control homing bird that is capable of transmitting QTVR footage anywhere you are. A final click demonstrates the capabilities of the Mach 5's homing bird.
Every race fan has heard the rumors of spearhooks, tire shanks and battery boosters.
The league has done a tremendous job to clean rally racing up. While it's true there have been a few bad apples, on the'whole most teams stay within league rules. He winks into the camera.
Or at least try not to get caught.
Sprittle! Faster than a blink Sprittle grabs the remote and changes the channel to "Unser Charly," a German sitcom starring a monkey.
What are you doing?
Just watching a little TV, Pops. Pops looks at the TV suspiciously, then back at his son.
It's his favorite show.
It's in German!
Not the monkey parts. chim-chim smiles.
Oh no you don't. You are not watching that race. Out you go. Outside. Get some exercise. You're too pale.
The moment the Queen of Casa Cristo sees the sun, she'll signal the start of the race.
This is wrong.what you are trying to do.
I have no choice. Their price is an insult to four generations of our family.
And if you die? Will then the price be high enough?
I understand it now, Trix. I know why he left us. She looks at him.
He was trying to change this rotten business and they killed him for it.
This is supposed to be my race! I'm supposed to win! I got the green light! They. promised I'd get to go to the Grand Prix! For eight years I've played by the rules! This is supposed to be my race!
Enough! I can't stand the whining!
Like a baby needing its diaper changed. Snake works his jaw looking for the right comeback.
It's simple. We have a team of wild cards. The problem is these wild cards are better drivers than you.
Like hell they are!
Prove it. Take out Katsu. The other two will quit.
Snake seethes.
You just watch me. Come on! He and his boys storm out, slamming the door behind them.
Katsu, HydroCell's coming up on your left. The HydroCell cars jostle their way towards Katsu, Speed and Racer X.
I got him.
Speed notices Horuko standing on the balcony and is struck by her beauty. Katsu bows.
It is such an extraordinary honor to have such talent on my team.
Let's skip the niceties and cut to the chase. Katsuarches an eyebrow.
The only reason we're here is because you needed two outsiders and because the Chief Inspector believes you'll turn over your. file on Remmington and Block. Racer X eyes him.
I don't believe it. I don't trust anyone who needs this kind of deal before they'll bring a criminal to justice. The accusation hangs in the air.
But I'm willing to take a chance that you'll prove me wrong.
You won't regret your decision.
We'll see. Until then you have my word that I will do everything.I can to make sure you checker at Bartimaeus. Katsu smiles.
Racer X smashes into one of the HydroCell team, him into a series of billboards. Katsu again smiles.
Arrigato, X. Arrigato.
If they're so desperate, why not just use some kind of sniper? There's a million places someone could hide if they were really trying to kill you.
Any obvious crime would allow the Chief Inspector to shut the race down. That kind of scrutiny would only hurt the business. They'll do as much as they can to make it appear legit. Speed nods.
The real problem we'll have is after the: first leg. Corteges is going to be extremely dangerous. Take my advice, keep your family away from Cortega. Speed again looks out at Moruko on the balcony.
They're out of the city and heading into the Zunubian Desert.
Speed, jump!
He's not alone.
This surprises me.
Why?
Tyrus is a good man. I wouldn't expect him to turn head-hunter. They aren't pulling any punches.
Inside are the photographs of a beautiful girl playing in a park. The hard edge in Tyrus' expression immediately softens turning to fear. Cruncher smiles like a snake that has just found an egg.
Things have started heating up, as the cars head out across the desert flats.
A hurricane of sand and dirt swirl around Katsu who sits calmly in the eye of the storm while- His guardian angels go into overdrive. Racer X and Speed seem like they have been driving together all their lives.
Lead him--
Here ya go! Speed leads an attack straight into Racer X's counter.
Wing left.
Flying in!
He jumps one car and blocks the attack on X. As their cars merge in.and out from one another, something seems perfectly clear to Speed-- He is back at Thunderhead with the ghost of his brother, dancing around each other until--
Speed! Wham! Billy slams up against him-- Throwing a lever, a grappler locks on to the Mach 5.
He's got me! I'm locked up! Another lever is pumped like a tire pump and a sheaved blade begins stabbing at Speed's tires. Racer X watches unable to leave Katsu unprotected. Speed hits the D button and the zircon saw blades start gliding through the grappler.
Get out of there! -
I'm trying! The knife slashes the tire which explodes just as the grappler is cut-- Speed flips away free, hitting the "C" button causing a new tire to inflate while he's upside down-- Landing on a new tire, without missing a beat. Tyrus rushes into the opening, but this time it's Katsue who works a hidden lever and-- A Katana-like blade flashes, a samurai slash across the front tire-- Bowing it out, flipping the entire car, which tumbles back straight at Speed, forcing him to try a split-jack
Firing only the rear jump-jacks, launching the back end of the car while--
The front end of the Mach 5 clips against the Atomic Injectibles car-- Sending Speed flipping end over end but landing with strangely beautiful grace.
Oh my god! Did I just see that!?
A rear single set jump into a forward flip!
I know he blew up at Fugi, but this kid is flat out magic!
I've got to go into town for some parts. I'll be back for lunch.
Sure thing Pops. Pops looks at them, shakes his head and walks off.
Sprittle slowly lowers his tanning goggles to watch go.
Let's go! They drop their mirrors and bolt for the house.
Honey, I can't find my wallet---- Pops enters the room expecting to find Mom but catches them red-handed.
Sprittle! He sees the race on tv.
You two are in--
Wait! Pops, before you get mad at us--Look! Sprittle points at the tv eyes wide.
I'm not falling for that--
It's Speed!
Speed's skiing.
Then who's driving the Mach 5? Pops turns and indeed, there's the Mach 5 barrelling across the red baked earth of Zunubia.
Oh no.
We're nearing the end of the first leg of the Casa Cristo as Snake Oiler, lead driver for the HydroCell team, roars through the streets of Cortega, heading for the finish.
The HydroCell team jumped on the lead early and would not give it up.
They made excellent time. Okamoto is still a couple of minutes behind them.
They have their work cut out for them tomorrow.
If we drive tomorrow like we drove today we will lose! He points at the masked racer.
You will get nothing! All of this will be meaningless!
Relax. Snake's weak on turns. We'll catch him in the mountains.
We might if you stop showing off.
Hey, all I was doing was saving your ass. Katsu raises a fist, but Racer X catches it.
Don't fall apart yet. There's still a lot of race to run. Katsu jerks free of Racer X and storms towards the door immediately enveloped by his security team. Speed looks at Racer X as though he can suddenly see through the mask.
A C.I.B. Man will be posted outside your door. We got their attention today. You and Trixie should be very careful tonight. Speed nods as Racer X heads for the door.
Racer X-- He stops.
I thought we made a good team today. It felt like we'd been doing it for a long time. He hesitates.
If you say so. He turns away leaving Speed alone.
Remmington wrings the phone as if it were a neck.
Ineptitude? Is this what I pay you for?
They ain't checkered yet.
If. they do, I assure you it will be a very costly mistake for everyone. He hangs up.
Mr. Remmington, you have Mr. Mushi on line two. Remmington was dreading this call. He hits the button.
Mr. Mushi--
So, is this what guarantee means to you, Mr. Remmington? Perhaps your dictionary has a different definition.
I understand there is a problem, but I assure you there is no need to panic.
I am not calling to panic. I am calling to inform you that we will be addressing the problem ourselves, as your assurances and guarantees leaves much to be desired. He hangs up leaving Remmington to stew in his juice.
It was very weird, Trix. I knew every move he was going to make and he knew mine. It was so familiar. Maybe I'm crazy but Racer X first showed up two years after Rex's death.
But Speed, Rex was cremated.
A body was cremated. Remember it had already been badly burned in the crash. Even if it was Rex, no one could have recognized him.
So you think he faked the crash with a different body in the driver's seat?
Somehow the kwik-save was disconnected. Inspector Detector suspected foul play but nothing could be proved.
okay, let's say it's all true. Why would we do it?
I don't know. Maybe the same reason I'm here. Ding dong. Speed goes to the door.
Yeah...
Is this the kind of driver I have? Someone who disobeys? Someone who lies to me? Is this the kind of son I have raised? And you, Trixie, you know what this race did to this family. Did either of you stop to think about us? Huh? Speed, did you think about your mother? Or your brother?
What it would do if something happened to you?
That's all I've been thinking about, Pops. You, Mom, Sprittle, Sparky. Chim-chim shouts.
Yeah, you too, Chim-chim. We are in serious trouble,,Pops, and it's all my fault.
This is not the place or the race to do anything about that.
Why not?
Because it won't do any good?
You don't know that.
You think you can drive a car and change the world?! It doesn't work like that!
Maybe not. But it's the only thing I know how to do and I gotta do something.
That's unacceptable! This is over. Pack your things. We're going home. Speed has never directly disobeyed his father.
I can't. I'm sorry, Pops.
What?!
I'm staying.
So am
No you're not! You're coming home, right now!
I'm not a child, Pops. You can't tell me how to live my life. If you want to fire me as your driver, then fine, do it. But it won't change the fact that I am going to.finish this race. Pops looks ready to have an aneurism.
God, you sound like Rex. Do you want to die like him too? Will that make you happy?
Don't take it out on me because you feel guilty for what happened to Rex.
okay, you two. That's enough. Pops, if they're staying, then we're staying.
All right, room service!
I suggest we try to do everything we can to make sure we go home together. toe with Pops fumes working his jaw, standing toe to Speed.
Where's the Mach-5?
Logged with security.
You added something to it?
Some defensive modifications.
The whole thing's out of balance, isn't it?
It pulls left, rides a little stiff.
Sparky. Pops and Sparky leave to do their work. Speed feels terrible. He looks at his Mom.
I'm sorry, Mom.
Your father loves you Speed. He's just afraid that--
I know. It's gonna be okay.
You wouldn't lie to your mother would you?
Never again. She hugs him..
Racer X, his face shrouded in shadows, emerges from the darkness where all marked men sleep, behind the couch. The ninja realizes he's been tricked and spins just as Racer X attacks.
Sprittle screams. The ninja attacks stabbing at Speed who just barely catches the needle. The ninja tries to wing-chun the hypodermic free but-- Speed is too quick and he forces the needle into the headboard as-- Sparky jumps onto the ninja's back.
I got him! I got hiiiyow-- The ninja throws Sparky across the room and tries to bolt but Speed is up and throwing a quick combo. The ninja stumbles, but a manages a spin-kick that knocks Speed back as-- Pops grabs the ninja from behind.
You attack my family?1 You try to hurt my son?! Pops twists the squirming ninja through a series of wrestling moves-- Finishing the ninja in a spinning over head helicopter----
Launching him out the window. Trixie and Mom burst in from the adjoining room.
Oh my god? Was that a ninja? Pops cracks his knuckles.
More like a non-ja. Terrible what passes for a ninja these days. s still She looks out the window and smiles; this family' got it.
Cool beans. There is a hurried knock at the door.
I'll get it. It is Horuko, surrounded by security.
Oh, I am sorry. I was looking for Speed Racer. Speed moves to the door.
Horuko? Are you all right?
No. Something terrible has happened.
Narcolyte Benzamine. A highly effective and debilitating drug.
Stays in the system for hours, but leaves with no trace.
I'll be...fine...by morning...
No you won't. You can't drive a car. You can barely stand up. Katsu leaps to his feet.
You do not tell me what I can do-- He suddenly collapses to the floor.
She tries to help him, but he is unconscious.
What are we going to do? They all look to each other for an answer, but no one seems to have one.
.I have been assured that our problem has been solved.
Perhaps your definition of "solved" is different from mine.
In the distance, the medieval walled city sinks behin hill as the sunrises, the sound of rolling thunder swelling as-- The race cars come flying over the hill, exploding past us.
The second leg of the Casa Cristo is under way. And the stage is set for what might be one of the most ferocious rallies we've seen in years.
Watch your line! Okamoto adjusts.
Cut left! Now! Speed. flies into block for Okamoto, but Okamoto doesn't create enough space.
Watch it! They kiss with the shriek of crashing metal.
Packs leaning left, look for a slingshot on the right!
Speed, you're too tight! The cars bounce and Speed takes a hit, spinning for moment before he regains control. Speed mumbles to himself.
This is completely--
Absolutely crazy.
The chopper is ready ma'am. Horuko is escorted out, surrounded by her security detail.
She's leavin' da hotel now.
Wicked sidewinder coming up. Watch the inside-out. Could get ugly.
Yeah, boss. Signal's loud and clear. On the dash is a GPS map with a blinking signal.
They're airborne? You're sure? Good. Double the guard for her arrival in Bartimaeus. I gave my word nothing would happen to his sister and I mean to keep it. The Inspector gets another call.
Inspector Detector..-.Mrs. Racer? What kind of emergency?
Left! Drift tight! Tight! Okamoto looks like he's about to go over the edge.
No!
Don't do it! They raise their hands.
On the ground! Now! They get on.the floor. Horuko stands and Cruncher whips his gun around to her.
But suddenly, something is wrong, his eyes going wide as he realizes-- Horuko is not Horuko. Horuko is Katsu.
What the-- Katsu snatches Cruncher's gun and the Fixer is too stunned to do anything to stop it.
You-cheater. The security team seizes hold of him.
But if you're here, who's--?
That's better. Couldn't see anything. She gains control and eases the car into the slot.
That's it. Nice line, Trix.
Top of the hill's coming. Snake's got at least a quarter mile'on ya.
Well, let's go get him.
If you'd been a little more careful, he wouldn't be ahead of us.
I told you I couldn't see outta this dang helmet. It's too big.
I can't believe you talked us into this ridiculous idea.
What's ridiculous about it? You're the one always telling me I'm a better driver than most of the WRL.
Now's not the time to prove it!
Why not?
It's too dangerous!
Too dangerous for me but not for you?
Children, focus! If we're going to have a chance we're going to have to pass Snake before the rendezvous.
I'm ready. Let's roll. She floors it, pulling out, leaving Speed shaking his head and trying to keep up. They smear through a hairpin turn and as they close on the nearest cars it is immediately apparent that they are no longer driving protectively or defensively-- They are attacking. Racer X leaps at the bumper of one car, corner-checking him into the rail while-- Trixie hits like a cue ball on the break, scattering several cars-- Leaving Speed little to clean up.
Wahoo! Go get 'em, girl!
Here they come! Pick it up!
Here comes the Okamoto team, making their move.
Watch it! What're you doin'?! The mountains undulate, the cars dip and rise caught in the current of this concrete river-- Flowing one way then another, the cars sawing across the belly of one bend, drifting into the curve of another
The Hydrocell emerges over the crest of a hill with the Okamoto team tight to their bumpers.
Just try it! Try to pass! Just try it! Racer X knows they're ready.
Take 'em.
With pleasure. Speed slingshots from the back position, hurling alongside the HydroCell team until-- Snake blocks him, setting up an attack by one of his team but this just allows Racer X a hole to punch through. The cars continue to slug it out still weaving up the mountain road, climbing it seems to helicopter or blimp height.
Now the gloves are off and they are pounding one another, bumper to bumper, rail to rail!
He becomes a cyclone, a whirling dervish, enveloping the HydroCell team in a cloud of chaos--- Throwing, rending,. ripping through them until only Snake is left. Speed is not kind; battering him until he's not sure if he's going forward or backward. In a panic, Snakes reaches for a hidden lever but before he can take hold of it, Speed clobbers him again, causing him to shriek louder than Trixie and then-- Recede quickly away like a dog with its tail tightly tucked.
Oh yeah! Pops can't help a flash of delight.
.that's my boy.
The Okamoto team roars into the lead behind some very aggressive driving by Speed Racer.
You kiddin' me? He just tore Snake a new tailpipe!
Trix? You all right? She's obviously shaken up.
Yeah, sure. 10--4 and ready for more. Speed shakes his head, wanting this to be over.
Then let's move it. We got some time to eat up.
Haven't ya heard? Cheaters never prosper.
Sir, we've got the lead! They're heading for the rendezvous, now! Katsu looks back at Cruncher and smiles.
Excellent.
Somethin' ain't right.
You're sure, no cameras here?
Checked it this morning. Quite a few dead spots in these mountains.
I told you-- She turns ready to fight, if that's what he wants.
You are one helluva driver. She smiles.
You're not so bad yourself. Sparky and Pops go to work, changing fuel cells and starting to pound out some of the serious dents. Racer X sees Cruncher guarded by the security team.
What's he doing here?
Stowaway. Weren't sure what to do with him.
Do what he'd do; break his legs and let him walk back. Horuko bows to Trixie.
Thank you so much.
It was a blast.
Cells reloaded!
Let's go! They start to turn until machine gun fires objects.
Nobody move! The thugs emerge from the surrounding wood.
What is this?!
He strides towards the nearest goon but bullets spit
the earth and snow at his feet causing him to freeze place.
This is called a change of plan. Now freed, one of the thugs tosses him a gun.
Yeah, that's right. We're changing your plan that changed our plan to change your plan. - .right boss? Cruncher decides to ignore that.
The new plan-- what was it, again? Break your legs, make you.walk back? I like that. He stands smiling in front of Racer X.
But first, I think it's time to play a little peek-a-boo, I-see- you.
We are still waiting for the Okamoto team to come out of the pass.
Those roads can really ice up. Very dangerous.
Monkey cookie! He turns just as-- Whap! A monkey cookie in the kisser.
Nice shot! Chim-chim howls as Sprittle reloads his sling-shot.
Sprittle?!
Get that monkey! The goons are confused, distracted, and before they can control it, the fight is on-- Racer X throws the thug holding him-- Speed and Trixie dish out equal measures of chop-socky and good of American slug-fu as-- Pops grapples and wrestles his goon into a head-lock. Racer X hammers Cruncher to the ground where he sees his gun, scrambling for it but just as he reaches for it-- Katsu steps on his hand. It's a short quick turn around and--
Looks like another change of plan.
The security guards herd up Cruncher and the thugs Pops turns his attention to--
Sprittlel Get over here!
Ahhhh! He and Chim-chim run behind Speed.
Sprittle this isn't a game. You could've been killed in there.
I.know it was bad! I know we shouldn't have done it. But Chim- chim was really really scared.
Chim-chim?
Okay, I was a little scared too.
Scared of what? Sprittle clings to his big brother.
I didn't want what happened to Rex to happen to you. Racer X and Pops feel a hidden wound open.
We just thought if you got into trouble, maybe we could help and it's a good thing we did. a good Speed looks at Pops as if Sprittle is making point.
Oh no, you're not getting off that easy. If your mother hasn't had a heart attack already, I'm sure she'll know what to do with you two. tires and The last of Pops line is lost to the squeal of roar of engines as the HydroCell team flies by.
Go! Go! Go! They rush to their cars, Speed leaping into the Mach-5. Engines. growl, tires spin and gravel spits as the three cars shoot back into the race.
First out of the pass is... the HydroCell team?
Uh-oh. They better send the emergency trailer--
Wait! Is that-- Like eagles dropping from the sky, the Okamoto ream soars out of the mouth of the pass.
Here we go again.
Whatever happened in that pass has left Okamoto back where they started but now only one obstacle stands between Snake oiler and
The Maltese Ice Caves.
Trixie notices as Pops begins to bite his lip. She whispers to Sparky.
This is where Rex... Sparky nods.
Speed?! What are you doing?
Sorry.
Are you all right?
I'm fine. Ahead, the HydroCell team grows from small silhouettes flashing in and out of sight,. closer and closer, larger and larger until-- once more the three chase cars lock onto their rear bumper.
The next cave's a rattler.
What is that?
Double S.
We'll make our move in there.
Where there is no purchase for advertisements-- Only the cold, wet darkness where white lights chase after red ones. Speed tries to shake his fear when X calls for the attack.
Now. The cars split apart, Racer X leading the charge as-- Sparks flash as with the cross of swords, metal striking metal and-- The ice-crusted walls sparkle with star-bursts of
The cacophony ringing through the first bending curve. It is obvious that the conditions are much more difficult, a sword fight on a frozen lake-- Each of the drivers, skidding, wobbling, drifting farther then they anticipated, but-- The Okamoto team are just too good, eliminating one and then the other HydroCell cars until-- Speed again has Snake in his sights. This time, though, Snake is ready.
Not this time, punk! He throws the lever and beneath his car-- A violent spray of freezing gas immediately skim coats the road with a fresh shimmering glaze of ice that--- Speed hits going full throttle, immediately spinning wildly out of control. He screams trying to hold on as he spits out the end of the cave-- Smashing through the rail, separating from the earth-- Hanging for a moment against the soundlessness of the open sky-- Before dropping like a stone.
Speed!
Oh no!
Speed Racer's gone over the edge!
Crampons shoot out of his tires, giving him just enough of a hold to try-- A split-jack jump, the front jacks firing, throwing the car into a somersault across the open ravine-- Slamming against the far side which has slightly more slope, allowing the crampons to dig in as-- He drive straight up the wall of ice.
He did.not! He did not just do that!
Speed Racer is. driving straight up a cliff face--are we getting this?
This kid is unbelievable!
Go, Speed, go!
Hi. Remember me? Speed roars up after him and Snake grabs for his lever again but now it's Speed that's ready-- Jumping over the ice, he body slams Snake, sending him hard into the rail as Speed shoots into the lead.
Not again! Not again! He grabs at an ankle holster, yanking out a gun.
Oh my god, he's got a gun!
Snakes fires just as-- Speed hits the cockpit bubble and the bullets smack against it like a sledgehammer into a brick wall.
He swerves knowing he won't be able to take many hits as Snake chases after him, firing as-- Speed hits the crampons again and runs up the side of the mountain then-- Flips off the wall just as the cliff face drops off, switching sides as-- Snake now finds himself on the outside as Speed bashes him out through the guard rail. Snake tries a similar move to Speed but Snake is no Speed- And his car bursts apart as he miss-times the flip, sending a bouncing cocoon to the distant snows below.
Snake oiler completely going out of his mind--
Could have been altitude sickness, it gets crazy up there--
-- And victory! The checkered flag comes down, hundreds of flashbulbs capturing the moment as Katsu leads Speed and Racer X across the finish line.
The stock of Okamoto engineering climbs two points.
Get me... Tetsuya Okamoto.
We make a good team.
We did our part. Make sure you do yours. Racer X stares at Katsu whose face is as expressionless as a mask but it feels as though Racer X can see right through it.
Of course.
Congratulations Mr. Okamoto. Very impressive race.
Yes, thank you. You are very generous, Mr. Remmington.
Speed, does this mean you've signed with Okamoto?
Uh, no. This was... a mutually beneficial opportunity.
Yes, well put.
Katsu, does this mean you will be running in the Grand Prix this weekend?
We'll see. Right now I'm just going to enjoy this victory.
The price is 78 a share.
That's outrageous! The price is barely above 50! This is extortion! Blackmail! I'll sue you! Tie up every asset you own up for the next 20 years!
As you wish Mr. Remmington. Have a nice day.
Wait! He grinds his molars until they are smooth.
Seventy-eight a share. I'll have the papers drawn up.
A pleasure doing business with you.
Okamoto hangs up the phone. Katsu and Horuko from him. He smiles.
You have done very well for us, my son. Katsu smiles the same smile as his father. The only person not smiling in the room is Horuko.
I don't get it. What just happened?
Okamoto played us for chumps. All he wanted was our help to drive up the stock on his family's company. Even if there was a file, he had no intention of turning it over.
You mean that whole race was for nothing?
For a moment he believes that he is again driving beside the ghost of his brother but when the two cars kiss up against each other, Speed realizes this is no ghost-- It's Racer X. The masked Racer suddenly becomes the focus of all his anger and Speed swings his car, wielding it like a club, trying to clobber him. Racer X dodges the first blow and swings back, the two have at one another, banging, shoving one another into the wall-- Until Speed can't take it anymore and he goes at X as ferociously as he can, throwing him into a tailspin-- Crashing him into one of the grand stands. Silence embraces the track. Speed climbs out of the Mach 5.
X? Racer X? There is a small movement in the car, a shuddering as though in pain and Speed realizes he may have gone too far.
Racer X?!! He runs to the car but immediately stops when he realizes the masked man is not in pan; he is laughing. He practically falls out of his car.
Jeezus, kid. You can drive. I haven't been thrown like that in years.
What are you doing here?
The inspector told me what happened., I came looking for you.
Why?
Thought you'd take it hard and maybe do something stupid.
Why would you care?
Because you're a fighter. And a friend.
Why don't you just tell me the truth? Racer X stares at him hard.
You're Rex, aren't you?
You mean your brother?
Youfirstappeared two years after Rexdied.You drive just like him.Youknew I'd be here because thisis where he always used to takeme.Just tell me the truth. mask. After a long hard moment, Racer X pulls off his He is not Rex. Speed is stunned.
You're... not Rex.
No. I'm sorry Speed but your brother is dead. He pulls his mask back on.
I'm sorry.
Don't be. I'm sure where ever your brother is, he is immensely proud of you.
For what? Making the same mistakes he did?
For trying to make a difference. From what I've read, that's all he tried to do.
And what good did it do? He got killed for nothing. Racing hasn't changed and it never will!
It doesn't matter if racing never changes. What matters is if we let racing change us. Everyone of us has to find the reason to do this. You don't climb into a T- 180 to be a driver. You do it because you're driven.
I don't know why I'm doing it anymore.
That's obvious. At Fuji, you were trying to prove something. At Cristo, you were looking for justice. Neither are the reason you belong behind a steering wheel.
If you know so much, why don't you tell me why I should keep driving?
Sorry. That's for you to figure out. He climbs back into his car.
I just hope when you do, I'm there. to see it. He roars away leaving Speed alone.
Hey watcha doin?
What's it look like?
Where ya goin?
I don't know. I just gotta get away from here.
Why?
Because.
Because why?
Because I have to.
Can we come with you? Speed is struck by an odd sense of deja vu.
What?
Can we come with you?
No.
Why?
You'll understand when it's your turn. He shoulders his bag and shoves out the door.
Speed crosses to the door but Pops is already sitting, waiting, a heaviness in his.limbs.
Speed, before you go, I'd like to say a few things. Will you sit with your old man for a minute? Speed chafes a bit but drops his bag.
Don't try to stop me.
I won't. I made a mistake trying to tell you what to do at Cortega. You were right. I was wrong. I won't make that mistake again. Speed sits.
I want you to know that I acted rashly. I said things I wish I hadn't. Your mother usually protects me from making an ass out of my self but I was determined to do it this time and I guess I did a pretty good job of it. I wanted to make sure you understood how sorry I was.
Thanks.
The truth was, I couldn't have been more proud of you son. Not because you won, but because you stood up, you weren't afraid and you did what you thought was right.
So? It didn't amount to anything. It was completely meaningless.
How could it be meaningless? I saw my son become a man. I watched him act with courage and integrity and drive the pants off of every driver on the road. This is not meaningless. This is the reason for a father's life. Pop's eyes'begin to twinkle with tears
I admit I went to Cortega because I was afraid that what happened to Rex was going to happen to you. And I just couldn't take that. I couldn't loose another one of my boys like that again. But what I realize in Cortega was that I didn't lose Rex when he crashed, I lost him here. I lost him when he walked out of this house and I let him go without telling him how proud I was of him and how much I loved him. I let him think that a stupid motor company meant more to me than he did. You'll never know how much I regret that mistake, but it's enough that I'll never make it again. He puts his big bear arms around him and hugs him.
I love you Speed. I understand that every child leaves home but I want you to know that door is always open and you can always come back.
I love you Pops. I'm just so confused right now. I don't what I'm doing or why I'm doing it. I'm locked up in some kinda tailspin and no direction makes sense.
I know what that's like. When Rex died I didn't even. know if I wanted salt on my eggs, let alone if I wanted to keep building cars. Then, do you remember when we sat here, that night, watching old Ben Burns and Dugazi? You remember that? Speednods vaguely.
Sittin' here, cheering with you, something just clicked, like a light being switched on inside of me and after that, I never had trouble remembering how I liked me eggs.
Jeez Pops. That's just it. That's part of my problem.
What?
That race. The '43 Prix. Burns and Dugazi? It was fixed. Remmington told me the whole story. It was all about some DNF names Rotts. They've known the winner of every Grand Prix for the past 50 years. It's always fixed. That's a tough pill for Pops to swallow.
I don't believe that. Remmington's a crook. You can't believe a crook.
I don't think he was lying, Pops.
The Grand Prix? A sham? Ding dong.
Who could that be?
Speed opens the door. She seems to glow, radiating her own incandescence.
Horuko?!
Forgive me for intruding but I had to come before it was too late. Speed eyes her for a moment wondering if this is another set-up.
This is not a trick. I swear to you. I am not my brother.
You going to ask the lovely lady in?
Yeah, sure. Come on in. She steps in, looking somewhat out of place in the suburban living room.
Can I get you something to drink?
No. My security man believes I am still at the opera, so I only have a moment. She turns to Speed.
I am very sorry for what happened. what my father and brother did was not right and I am ashamed.
It's fine. Just another lesson learned.
No.. It is they who are in need of a lesson. She pulls an envelope out of her bag and gives it to Speed.
This rightfully belongs to you. He opens the envelope and his eyes immediately light up.
An invitation to compete in the 91st annual Grand Prix?
My brother was planning to decline anyway but I studied the rules very carefully and as a member of the Okamoto team, if you present this invitation on the day of the race, they must allow you to compete. Pops bursts into a smile and slaps Speed on the back.
Whaddya think of that, Mr. Its- Always-Fixed?
You do not have to say anything. I only hope you drive as you did in Casa Cristo and you wipe the smiles from their faces.
We don't have a car. Sparky!
Right here Pops. Sparky steps out of the kitchen doorway.
What're you doing in the kitchen?
Same as everyone else. Behind him the entire family peeks out.
I don't believe it. You were listening the whole time? Trixie goes to him.
We were worried about you.
I would say good luck Saturday but you do not need it. You are already very lucky to have such a family.
Goodbye and thank you. He closes the door.
Come on! We got work to do.
But Pops, the race is less than 36 hours away.
Isn't that how fast Remmington said he could build that tin can with all his fancy machines?
Yeah.
Then we'll do it in 32. Let's go! He heads for the garage, Sprittle leaping after him.
I want to help.
Well come on.
Chim-chim too?
We need everyone.
I swear to you Mr. Mushi when the GRX is revealed at the Grand Prix and then captures the black and white checkers the demand for our transponder engines will go through the roof. Mushi.smiles.
The car is further along, but still a long way from finished.
Preparations are well under way, ads being positioned, lights being checked, make-up being applied to Ben Burns and his announcing partner, Cass Jones.
Alright, fire it up! Everyone holds their breath as Speed hits the ignition. The car makes a sick baying rattle and smoke begins pouring out of the engine.
Kill it! Kill it!
Ladies and gentlemen, behold the future. It's black, shiny, and beautiful in a malefic way.
Sparks, it's getting late.
I know, I know. Okay. Give it a try. Everyone braces as Speed hits the ignition. It is the sound of an explosion held in the palm of your hand.
Sounds beefy Pops.
It gives you a little something extra.
Let's get it loaded!
This year marks a new record as the Grand Prix will be broadcast in eighty-four different languages. The camera pans. over the multitude of ethnic broadcasters.
Just gets bigger every year, doesn't it Ben?
Seems like it.
We've got an incredible lineup this year. Some major competition. We got a few fan favorites like the Gray Ghost, Sonic "Boom-boom" Renaldi and Prince Kabala. We got perenial powerhouses like Nitro Venderhoss, Gary "Gearbox" Kalinkov, and Mori Minimoto.
Not to mention C ball.
Cannonball Taylor, fastest Grand Prix seed in history, driving the new ORX from Remmington Racecars.
She looks mighty tight.
There is an odd numbered field today, nineteen, one shy of a full boat as Katsu Okamoto declined his automatic invitation after winning the Casa Cristo.
Hey there's something going on down there.
We're seeing some kind of commotion down at the trailer entrance.
Is there a problem here, officer?
Sir, we have a problem.
What madness is going on here?
Where did you get that?
I was on the Okamoto team remember? I won it fair and square.
This is preposterous! He can't be allowed to race. It's too late.
The ruling on this is quite clear. Try to stop it and you'll be in blatant violation of the WRL charter, leaving me no option but to shut this years Prix down until a full investigation can be completed.
What?! Do you have any idea what that would cost? Are you insane?
Try me. Remmington stews then spits a threat at Speed.
You'll regret this.
Doubt it.
Something big is going on because every race official has been-- wait, wait. An announcement is being made. A new driver is being added to the field.
Holy sh--
Ben Burns gets bleeped by the network censors.
A million dollars to the driver that takes Racer out.
He won't get out of the blocks.
I prefer him to not even make it out of the locker room. Cannonball smiles as Remmington starts to turn.
We're installing a spear hook on the GRX.
I don't need one to beat that punk.
A precaution.
Oh no...
Hey kid--
The Gray Ghost...
Just wanted to say good luck. He reaches out to shake, then whispers.
There's a million dollar bounty on your head.
A million dollars? Wow. Maybe I should take myself out.
Watch yourself. Your ruffling some pretty major feathers here.
Why aren't you after the bounty?
Our little dance at Fuji--that's how it should always be.
As the cars take to the field you can feel the anticipation mounting in the audience. Something is different. There is an electricity in the air. The presence of Speed Racer has completely changed the equation.
Speed Racer? Speed turns, taking a moment to realize the handsome millionaire playboy in the tux is unmasked Racer X. He glances down at Speed's belongings and sees a picture of Rex.
Oh, yeah.
I'm quite a fan of yours and just wanted to say how glad I am to see you here. As they shake hands, Racer X realizes that something is wrong.
Is something wrong?
I just... I got this thing... its stupid, I know, a superstition, but I guess all of us got one.
Can I help? Speed suddenly notices the red trim of his tuxedo and his red tie. He looks down and heaves a sigh of relief. Red socks.
There is a dizzying onslaught of giant advertisements and jumbotrons while the enormous crowd roars in lapping waves like the surrounding ocean.
There he is now, Speed Racer, perhaps the biggest wild card in Grand Prix history.
Look! There's Speed!
Speed Racer gets his first eyeful of the Coliseum.
This ain't Kansas baby!
Hey, mouth-breather, get used to
He shows Speed his ass.
'Cause that's what you're going to be looking at all day! Speed tries to ignore him and the other driver's staring at him like a fox staring at a chicken.
Howya feelin'? Speed takes a breath as he dares to look around again.
.it's big.
Hey, this cockpit is the exact same size it was at Thunderhead.
Right.
Just wanted to say, thanks, for what could be the most exciting moment of my life.
Couldn't have gotten here without you. He hugs him.
I'm looking forward to that cold milk.
Me too. Speed climbs in as the speaker system blares--
The final countdown has begun and a stillness has fallen over this stadium as all eyes turn to one car.
This ain't a race. It's a showdown.
He tries to avoid it but can't, rear-ending him while the car behind him slams into the back of the Mach 5.
Trouble at the start, a misfire traps Speed Racer, causing a
Uh-oh. Look out!
I don't know how he got out of that one--
That-kid's wiley.
Speed fakes left, jumps right--
Nice, nice--
He slips in behind Gearbox---
Here comes over under--
I told you! I told you!
Speed Racer seems unstoppable, moving up from dead last, nearing the leaders as they head into the slalom with the Gray Ghost battling Prince Kabala and Cannonball Taylor for the lead.
Where am I? Where am I? I'm here. I am over there. I'm Savior Faire! The Prince tries to block the Ghost but he can't seem to locate him.
I'm everywhere, baby! Wham! The Ghost is on him, pouncing, slipping into what feels like a shoulder throw that sends the Prince spinning out of control onto the onrushing Nitro-- Shattering the Prince's car like a mis-struck diamond reduced in one hammer stroke to twinkling dust.
The two more cocoons bounce onto the road as the other cars roar past.
A spectacular crash as the Prince's jewel-covered Gigerbon worth an estimated 22 million dollars is scattered over a quarter mile of track.
I'd like to work clean up on that crash. They chuckle.
But look out, as they approach the Big Drop, here comes Speed Racer?
The green Mushi motors car, the Gray Ghost, and the Black
Speed Racer is knocking on the door of the new GRX driven by Cannonball Taylor.
You hoot Anybody home?
Ok Mr. Two Time Grand Prix, Five time WRL, future Hall of Fame, teach me something.
Come on! Is that it? He swerves back and the two cars begin to battle but it is immediately clear who is the better driver, as-- Speed throws Cannonball from one side of the track to the other.
Cannonball Taylor is in trouble.
Tear `em up kid!
Do it. Stop him. Stop him now.
Lesson's over. See you at the finish line. Speed slides into Cannonball to throw him but as he does--
Cannonball throws a hidden switch and under the two cars a spear hook shoots out and locks onto the Mach 5 undercarriage. Speed feels it and knows what happened immediately.
No!
What is it?
Spear hook! He's got me! Cannonball slows driving both cars into the wall, grinding against the Mach 5 while the trailing cars shoot post.
Cannonball has Speed pinned as they grind through the butterfly turn.
That cheater! He's using a spear hook! SPEAR HOOK! SPEAR HOOK! The surrounding crowd becomes uncomfortable.
Sprittle, we don't know that.
I do! Cannonball Taylor is nothing but a big cheater!
This is going to be ugly.
Told you so! Chim-chim high fives him.
Cheaters never prosper!
Cannonball clearly using a spear hook.
That could cost him the Hall of Fame.
Not to mention what it might do to Remmington Industries.
Shame on them.
Speed tries to start the Mach 5. He hits the the starter only grinds.
Oh no, come on, don't do this.
Don't quit on us now baby.
Careful. Listen to it. Don't kill the starter.
What do you need? Something makes him put the car in second gear. He steps on the accelerator, then hits the starter and--- And the Mach 5 roars to life. The crowd screams to the wail of burning rubber.
He's back in it, but less than a lap and a half, I don't know what kind of chance he has.
Come on kid! Move it!
Thunders by, rattling the elaborate lace work of concrete and steel-- Gaining, inch by inch, foot by foot.
Look at the split! He's shattering the lap record.
Don't mean a thing without those checkers.
outside the Mach 5 a maelstrom of violent chaos churns
Inside, Speed is perfectly at pease.
No hesitation, nothing fazes him, no one seems capable of stopping him.
This kid ain't just driving--he's on a mission.
Stop him! Stop him!
Welcome back kid. Been lonely up here without you.
With a quarter lap to go Speed Racer is back, two cars beneath him and destiny.
Oh yeah, here we go, here we go. Speed flashes one way, then another, moving in ghost-like feigns, here there, and everywhere.
What's this? What's this? Hey now! That's my move! Before Ghost knows where to go, Speed ducks past--
Sling-shotting down alongside the Mushi motors car. The Yukuza driver tries to block but-- Speed jumps, dodging the hit, causing the Mushi car to swerve and then wildly correct-- Swinging back as Speed hop-scotches over him again, just
The Ghost flies in, taking a broadside hit from the Mushi car, both of them exploding just feet from the finish line, as-- Speed launches up and through the cloud of smoke and fire, crossing into history with the flashing wave of the checkered black and white-- Fluttering softly in the silence as the crowd begins to rise to their feet. The Mach 5 slides to a stop and for a moment Speed catches his breath, then, slowly pulling off his helmet he begins to let it all in-- The thunder of the crowd can be felt through his chest straight to his heart.
It's a pandemonium! People have gone completely crazy! In fourteen years we've never seen anything like this!
It's a whole new world baby, a whole new world.
He did it. Racer X lowers his binos and turns to the inspector.
Yes, he did.
This could change everything.
It already has.
My men are bringing the family down. Do you want to go with them?
He turns and takes Minx by the arm.
Can I ask you a question? Do you ever think you made a mistake, hiding the truth from them?
There is a flash of images as we glimpse the truth; images of Rex watching his car explode in the ice caves, his funeral, then the facial surgery, then the mask of bandages as one face is lost in a mirror and another is revealed.
If I did, then it's a mistake I have to live with. He walks away while---
Speed! She pushes towards him and he sweeps her up into his arms and kisses her, surrounded by the sparkle of camera flash
Sprittle covers Chim-chim's eyes.
Danger. May cause cookies. Mom and Pops both hug Speed, their eyes bright with joy
We rise up, up, and away. Roll snazzy credits.
