 I don't know about you, but it always make me sore when I see those war pictures -- all about flying leather- necks and submarine patrols and frogmen and guerillas in the Philippines. I don't want to take anything away from those guys, but what gets me is that there never was a movie about P.O.W.s -- about prisoners of war. Now my name is Clarence Harvey Cook, -- they call me Cookie. I was shot down over Magdeburg, Germany back in 43. That's why I stammer a little once in a while, especially when I get excited and I always get excited when I talk about Stalag 17. I spent two and a half years in Stalag 17. Stalag is the Kraut word for prison camp and number 17 was somewhere near Krems on the Danube. There were about forty thousand P.O.W.s there, if...
you bothered to count the Russians and the Poles and the Czechs. In our Compound there were about six hundred and thirty of us -- all American airmen, all shot down by the Krauts -- radio operators, gunners and engineers -- all sergeants. Now you put six hundred and thirty sergeants together and boinnnnng! -- you've got yourself a situation! There was more fireworks shooting off around that place! Take for instance the story about the spy we had in our barrack. It was about a week before Christmas in '44 and two of our guys -- Manfredi and Johnson to be exact -- were just getting set to blow the joint...
 Get up, Animal! Betty Grable's on the phone!
Here's your civilian clothes, boys.
Okay, Hoffy.
Bury your Army outfits before you get out of the forest.
Okay.
The compass is the top button on your pants, Johnson.
Okay.
Anybody asks for your papers, you're French laborers.
Your map -- your Kraut money -- Swiss francs.
Roger.
Now, let's hear it once more, boys.
We've been over it a hundred times.
Let's hear it again.
We stick to the forest going west until we hit the Danube --
Check.
Then follow the Danube up to Linz --
Check.
In Linz we hop a barge and go all the way to Ulm --
Stop it, Joey -- go to sleep!
 Go on. You're in Ulm.
Once in Ulm we lie low until night, then take a train to Friedrichshafen.
Then once in Friedrichshafen we steal a rowboat, get some fishing tackle, and start drifting across the lake -- always south -- until we hit the other side -- Switzerland.
Bingo. Once in Switzerland, just give out with a big yodel so we'll know you're there. It's a breeze, boys.
Stay out of it, Sefton.
Just one question. Did you calculate the risk?
Ready.
You got ten minutes to get through the tunnel. That'll bring you out just when the Jerries are changing shifts.  Blondie?
 Okay, boys -- peel off.
When you get going on those broads, think of me!
Animal! Animal! Aren't you ashamed of yourself? A couple of guys are trying to escape and you're thinking of broads. Broads?
 We'll miss you, you cruds.
They ought to be under the barbed wire soon.
 Looks good outside.
I hope they hit the Danube before dawn.
They got a good chance. This is the longest night of the year.
I bet you they make it to Friedrichshafen all right.
I bet they get all the way to Switzerland!
And I bet they don't even get out of the forest.
Now what kind of a crack is that?
No crack. Two packs of cigarettes say they don't get out of the forest.
That's enough, Sefton. Crawl back into your sack.
He'd make book on his own mother getting hit by a truck!
Anybody call?
Go on, Sefton -- butt out!
Wait a minute, Hoffy -- I want to back those kids. I'll cover ten of that.
I'll take five.
Eight.
Put me down for ten, you louse.
 I'll call the whole pot.
Whatever you say.  Hey, Cookie -- get me some more cigarettes.
Here's two and a half.
No butts.
 W-w-will that do or do you want some m-m-m --?
That'll do.
Speak up, boys. Any more sports in the crowd?
Let's go.
Filthy Krauts!
What slipped up, Hoffy?
Don't ask me. Price was elected Security.
 Okay, Security -- what happened?
I wish I knew. We had everything figured out. To the last detail.
Maybe the Krauts knew about that tunnel all the time!
Shut up, Animal!
Maybe they were layin' for 'em out there!
 Yeah. Maybe.
Hold it, Sefton. So we heard some shots -- so who says they didn't get away?
Anybody here wanna double their bet?
Funny thing about those Krauts. They hated the sight of us yet they couldn't wait to look at us again. Every morning -- at six on the dot -- they'd have the Appell -- that's roll call to you. Each barrack had its own alarm clock. Our alarm clock was Johann Sebastian Schulz. I understand the Krauts had a composer way back with the Johann Sebastian in it -- but I can tell you one thing: Schulz was no composer. He was a Schweinehund. Oh, Mother -- was he ever a lousy Schweinehund!
Aufstehen, gentlemen! Appell! Raus! Hurry up!
You must get up for roll call! Raus, raus, gentlemen! Everybody aufstehen! Raus!
We heard you, Schulz! And good morning to you! Aw, break it off! Why don't you take that whistle and shove it! Tell the Kommandant I've got dysentery! Shut up, Schulz -- you're talking to sergeants of the United States Air Force! Look at this chilblain. Ain't it a beaut!
Raus! Raus! Aufstehen!
Come on, sack rats -- cut the bitchin' and get up!
Say, Schulz -- you guys had machine gun practice last night?
 Ach, terrible! Such foolish boys. Such nice boys. I'd better not talk about it. It makes me sick to my stomach.
You killed them, huh? Both of them?
Such nice boys! It makes me sick to --
Don't wear it out!
Outside! You, too! Put away the piccolo!
Los, los. Dummkopf!
 Lay off, Schulz. He's got a sickness. He's krank.
Sometimes I think he is fooling us with that crazy business.
Yeah? How would you like to see the guts of nine pals splattered all over your plane?  C'mon Joey -- don't be afraid.
Aufstehen, gentlemen! Please! You do not want to stay in bed on such a beautiful morning we are having today!
Say, Schulz --
Jawohl?
Sprechen Sie deutsch?
Jawohl.
Then droppen Sie dead!
 Ja -- ja! Droppen Sie dead! Always mit the jokes! Droppen Sie dead!
Aufstehen! Appell!
Get up, Animal. Come on!
 Good morning, Animal! What'll it be for breakfast? Scrambled eggs with little sausages? Bacon and eggs sunny- side up? Griddle cakes? A waffle?
Stop it, Harry!
Coffee? Milk? Or how about a little cocoa?
 Why do you do this to me every morning?
 Hamburger and onions! Strawberry shortcake! Gefillte fish! Banana split! French fried potatoes! Chicken a la king!
I'll kill you, Harry -- so help me!
Let go, Animal! It's roll call! Hitler wants to see you!
Good morning, Sefton.
Good morning, Schulz. And how's Mrs. Schulz? And all the little Schulzes?
Fine -- fine!
Let us see. We have now two empty bunks here. (takes out pencil and notebook, writes) Nummer einundsiebzig und Nummer dreiundsiebzig in Baracke vier.
Suppose you let those mattresses cool off a little -- just out of decency?
Ja, ja, gewiss! It is only that we are cramped for space with new prisoners every day.  Gentlemen! Outside! Please! Do you want me to have trouble with the Kommandant again!
Hey, Schulz -- as long as you're going to move somebody in -- how about a couple of those Russian broads?
Russian women prisoners?
Jawohl!
Some are not bad at all.
Just get us a couple with big Glockenspiels.
Ja! Ja! Droppen Sie dead!
All right, men -- fall in!
Ach-tung! Abzaehlen!
Parade Atten-tion!
Guten Morgen, Sergeants!
Nasty weather we're having, eh? And I so much hoped that we could give you a white Christmas -- just like the ones you used to know... Aren't those the words that clever little man wrote -- you know the one who stole his name from our capital -- that something-or-other Berlin?
Look at that mud. Come spring -- and I do hope you'll still be with us next spring -- we shall plant some grass here -- and perhaps some daffodils --
Ich bitte!
 Melde gehorchsamst: 628 Gefangene. Zwei Mann fehlen in Baracke vier.
 I understand we are minus two men this morning. I am surprised at you, gentlemen. Here I am trying to be your friend and you do these embarrassing things to me. Don't you know this could get me into hot water with the High Command? They do not like men escaping from Stalag 17 - especially, not enemy airmen from Compound D. We plucked you out of the skies and now we must see to it you do not fly away. Because you would come back and blast our cities again. The High Command would be very angry with me. They would strip me of my rank. They would courtmartial me, after all these years of a perfect record! Now you wouldn't want that to happen to me, would you? Fortunately, those two men --
As I was saying: fortunately those two men did not get very far. They had the good sense to rejoin us again, so my record would stand unblemished. Nobody has ever escaped from Stalag 17. Not alive, anyway.
 Sergeant Hoffman from Barrack 4.
Yes, Sergeant Hoffman?
As the duly elected Compound Chief, I protest the way these bodies are left lying in the mud.
Anything else?
Yes. According to the Geneva Convention, dead prisoners are to be given a decent burial.
Of course. I'm aware of the Geneva Convention. They will be given the burial they deserve. Or perhaps you would suggest we haul in twenty-one cannons from the Eastern Front and give them a twenty-one gun salute?
For the last time, gentlemen, let me remind you: any prisoners found outside the barracks after lights out will be shot on sight. Furthermore, the iron stove in Barrack 4, the one camouflaging the trap door, will be removed. And so that the men from this barrack will not suffer from the cold, they will keep warm by filling in the escape tunnel. Is that clear?
All right, then, gentlemen. We are all friends again. And with Christmas coming on, I have a special treat for you. I'll have you all deloused for the holidays. And I'll have a little tree for every barrack. You will like that.
 Who did this?
I will give the funny man exactly five seconds to step forward.
Then you shall all stand here if it takes all day and all night.
That is better!
I see! Six hundred funny men! ...There will be no Christmas trees! But there will be delousing.  With ice water from the hoses!
 Dismissed!
 'We will remove the iron stove -- the one that was camouflaging the trap door.'
I'm telling you, Animal, these Nazis ain't Kosher.
You can say that again!
I'm telling you, Animal -- these Nazis ain't Ko --
 I said say it again. I didn't say repeat it.
Private property, bub.
How come the Krauts knew about that stove, Security? And the tunnel? How come you can't lay down a belch around here without them knowing it?
Look -- if you don't like the way I'm handling this job --
Kill it, Duke. It's got us all spinning.
I just want to know what makes those Krauts so smart.
Maybe they're doin' it with radar. Maybe they got a mike hidden some place.
Yeah. Right up Joey's ocarina.
Or maybe it's not that they're so smart. Maybe it's that we're so stupid. Maybe there's somebody in our barracks that's tipping 'em off! One of us!
Come again?
You betcha. I said one of us is a stoolie. A dirty, stinkin' stoolie!
Is that Einstein's theory? Or did you figure it out yourself?
 New dames in the Russian compound!
Yee-ow! Tovarich! Tovarich! Oh you sweethearts! Let's open the third front! Hey, Minks -- Pinsk! How about some borscht -- the two of us!
Hey -- Russki -- Russki! Look at those bublichkis! Over here!
Comrade! Comrade! Otchi Tchorniya -- Otchi Tchorniya!
Chewing gum -- chewing gum!
 Look at me! I'm your baby!  Get a load of that blonde one! Built like a brick Kremlin!
Hey -- Comrade! Over here! This is Harry Shapiro -- the Volga Boatman of Barrack four!
Lay off! The blonde is mine!
 Hey, Olga -- Volga -- wait for me!
Zurueck oder wir schiessen! Zurueck!
Let me go! Let me go!
They'll shoot you, Animal!
I don't care! Let me go!
It's chow, Animal! Chow!
Who wants to eat? I just wanna get over there!
No you don't! You don't want any broads with boots on!
I don't care if they wear galoshes!
You want Betty Grable!
Let me go!
 Betty Grable!
Animal! When the war's over, remember I told you I'd fix you up with Betty Grable!
Yeah? How you going to fix me up with Betty Grable?
How? We go to California. I got a cousin that's working for the Los Angeles Gas Company. That's how we get the address, see? Isn't that clever? I take you up to her house and ring the doorbell and say, 'Congratulations, Miss Grable. We have voted you the girl we'd most like to be behind barbed wire with, and I'm here to present the award'.
What's the award?
What d'ya think, jerko! You're the award!
Me? What if she don't want me?
If she don't want you, she don't get anything.
 You're teasing me again!
 Let go, Animal! It's chow! We'll miss chow!
 What's this stuff anyhow? Manicure water?
This is what I like -- a hearty meal.
They finally found the formula: an Ersatz of an Ersatz.
What's holding up the parade?
Are you supposed to drink this stuff or shave?
 Drink.  Shave.
Anyone else want potato soup?
 Chow! Where's the chow!
Take your socks outa my breakfast!
No, Animal.
No?
No. Your eyeball goes. The top of your head. Gotta wind up with athlete's stomach.
Set 'er up, Cookie. I'm starved.
Easy, Animal! Easy!
Where'd that come from?
From a chicken, bug-wit.
A chicken?
Don't you remember, Animal? A chicken lays those things.
It's beautiful!  You goin' to eat it all yourself?
Uh-huh. The yellow and the white.
Is it all right if we smell it?
Just don't drool on it.
You're not going to eat the eggshells?
Help yourself.
 Thanks. You're a real pal!  What're we goin' to do with it?
Plant it, Animal, and grow us a chicken for Christmas.
If I were you, Sefton, I'd eat that egg some place else. Like for instance under the barrack.
 A little weak today.
Come on, Trader Horn! Let's hear it: what'd you give the Krauts for that egg?
 Forty-five cigarettes. The price has gone up.
That wouldn't be the cigarettes you took us for last night?
What was I going to do with them? I only smoke cigars.
Nice guy! The Krauts shoot Manfredi and Johnson last night and today he's out trading with them.
Look, this may be my last hot breakfast on account of they're going to take away that stove. So will you let me eat it in peace?
Ain't that too bad! Tomorrow he'll have to suck a raw egg!
He don't have to worry. He'll trade the Krauts for a six-burner gas range. Maybe a deep freeze too.
What's your beef, boys? So I'm trading. Everybody here is trading. Only maybe I trade a little sharper. So that makes me a collaborator.
A lot sharper, Sefton! I'd like to have some of that loot you got in those footlockers!
You would, would you? Listen, Stupe -- the first week I was in this joint somebody stole my Red Cross package, my blanket and my left shoe. Well, I wised up since. This ain't no Salvation Army -- this is everybody for himself. Dog eat dog.
You stink, Sefton!
Come off it! Both of you!
Now you've done it. You've given me nervous indigestion.  Anything else bothering you, boys?
Just one little thing. How come you were so sure Manfredi and Johnson wouldn't get out of the forest?
I wasn't so sure. I just liked the odds.
And what's that crack supposed to mean?
They're lying dead in the mud out there and I'm trying to find out how come.
I'll tell you how come.  The Barrack Chief gave them the green light. And you, our Security Officer, said it'd be safe. That's how come.
What're you guys trying to prove anyway? Cutting trap doors! Digging tunnels! You know what the chances are to get out of here? And let's say you do get all the way to Switzerland! Or say to the States? So what? They ship you to the Pacific and slap you in another plane. And you get shot down again and you wind up in a Japanese prison camp. That's if you're lucky! Well, I'm no escape artist! You can be the heroes, the boys with the fruit salad on your chest. Me -- I'm staying put. And I'm going to make myself as comfortable as I can. And if it takes a little trading with the enemy to get me some food or a better mattress or a woman -- that's okay by Sefton!
Why you crud! This war's going to be over some day -- then what do you think we'll do to Kraut-kissers like you?
At ease! At ease!
 AT EASE!
Break it off, boys! At ease for the news!
Today's Camp News!  Father Murray announces that due to local regulations the Christmas midnight Mass will be held at seven in the morning!
You can tell Father Murray to --
At ease! He also says, quote: All you sack rats better show up for the services and no bull from anybody. Unquote. At ease! Monday afternoon a sailboat race will be held at the cesspool. See Oscar Rudolph of Barrack 7 if you want to enter a yacht. Next: Jack Cushingham and Larry Blake will play Frank deNotta and Mike Cohen for the pinochle championship of the camp.
That's a fix.
At ease! Tuesday afternoon at two o'clock all men from Texas will meet behind the north latrine.
At ease! Next: A warning from Kommandant von Scherbach. Anybody found throwing rocks at low-flying German aircraft will be thrown in the boob. At ease! At ease!  Are the doors covered?
 Okay, Steve. Give 'em the radio.
 You can keep it for two days.
Two days? We're supposed to have it for a week!
You're lucky to get it at all. The boys are afraid the Jerries'll find it here. This barrack is jinxed.
Don't worry. We'll take care of it.
 Take some men and get the antenna going. Let's see if we can catch the BBC.
What about those guys last night? What gives in this barrack anyway?
Just a little sickness. Somebody around here's got the German measles.
He oughta know. He went to Johns Hopkins. He used to be a bedpan.
What's the gag?
 At ease! At ease!
Be sure to put down the news. Looks like the Germans have started a counter-offensive and the other barracks want to know.
Getting anything?
Getting too much. I'm tryin' to unscramble.
If you can't get the BBC, how about getting Guy Lombardo?
Are we boring you?
Hold it... Quiet...
...has driven across Luxemburg... The second German wedge is reported fourteen miles west of Malmedy where tank columns cut the road to Bastogne... the Allied Air Force is grounded by poor visibility...
Wunderbar! Isn't he wunderbar!
He's the grrrrreatest!
 ...five Panzer divisions and nine infantry divisions of von Rundstedt's army have poured into the wide breach... meanwhile two of Patton's tank units have been diverted toward Bastogne and are trying to --
Come on!
Static!
Static is right! The radio's static, Patton's static, we're static!
Maybe it's going to be a longer war than you figured -- eh, Duke?
Did I interrupt something, gentlemen?
Yeah. We were just passing out guns.
 Always joking. Always making wisecrackers!
Wisecrackers? Where did he pick up his English? In a pretzel factory?
You always think I am a square. I have been to America. (he shows them his cauliflower ears) I wrestled in Milwaukee and St. Louis and Cincinnati. And I will go back! The way the war is going I will be there before you!
You should live so long.
This is me in Cincinnati.
Who's the other wrestler? The one with the mustache?
That is my wife.
 Look at all that meat. Isn't she the bitter end!
 Give it back. You must not arouse yourselves.
Hey, Schulz! I got a deal for you. Suppose you help us escape. We'll go home and have everything ready for you in Madison Square Garden. For the world championship! Schulz, the Beast of Bavaria versus Halitosis Jones!
Droppen Sie dead!  Raus mit dem Ofen. Los! Los!
 All right, gentlemen! We will now all go outside for a little gymnastic and take some shovels and undig the tunnel which you digged.
Why don't we just plug up that tunnel -- with the Kommandant on one end and you on the other.
It is not me. It is the orders. I am your friend. I am your best friend here.
Cut out the guff, Schulz. We're on to you. You know everything that's happening in this barrack. Who's tipping you off?
Tipping me off? I do not understand.
You're wasting your time, Duke.  Outside, everybody! Let's get it over with.
Wait a second, Hoffy. Schulz says he's our best friend. Maybe he can give us a little hint.
Come on, Schulz! Spill it! How did you get the information? About Manfredi and Johnson? About the stove and the tunnel? Who's giving it to you? Which one of us is it?
Which one of you is what?
Which one of us is the informer?
You are trying to say that an American would inform on other Americans?
That's the general idea.  Only it's not so general as far as I'm concerned.
You are talking crazy!
 No use, Schulz. You might as well come clean. Why don't you just tell 'em it's me. Because I'm really the illegitimate son of Hitler. And after the Germans win the war you'll make me the Gauleiter of Zinzinnati.
You Americans! You are the craziest people! That's why I like you! I wish I could invite you all to my house for a nice German Christmas!
 Why don't we accept, Animal? The worst that can happen is we wind up a couple of lamp shades.
 Raus! Raus! All of you!
He was the Beast of Bavaria all right, as we pieced it together later. And there was a stoolie in our barrack, just as Duke said. They had a very simple communications system -- Schulz and the stoolie...
That's how the Krauts knew about the tunnel, from the day we started digging. Those poor suckers Manfredi and Johnson! They got out of Stalag 17 sure enough, only not quite the way they wanted to go.
As for the stoolie, I just wish he had German measles because when you get the measles you break out all over in red spots, and we could have pegged him easy. As it was it could have been anybody in our outfit -- Duke or Hoffy or Price or Goofy Joey or Harry or the Animal or maybe Sefton. Sergeant J.J. Sefton. I guess it's about time I told you a few more things about that Sefton guy. If I was anything of a writer I'd send it in to the Reader's Digest for one of those 'Most Unforgettable Characters You've Ever Met'...
...he was a B.T.O., Sefton was. A Big Time Operator. Always hustling, always scrounging. Take for instance the horse races. Every Saturday and Sunday he would put on horse races. He was the sole owner and operator of the Stalag 17 Turf Club. He was the Presiding Steward, the Chief Handicapper, the Starter, the Judge, the Breeder and his own bookie. He was the whole works, except that I was the stable boy for ten smokes a day.
Step up, boys! The horses are at the post!
Five on Equipoise! Give me Equipoise -- ten on the nose! Two on Twenty Grand! Schnickelfritz for me. Five smackers! Equipoise -- one solid pack!
 Five on Seabiscuit! Pay you when the Red Cross parcels come in.
No credit.
Have a heart, Sefton!
Sorry. It's against the rules of the Racing Commission.  Already? Any more bets? Shake 'em up, Cookie!
Let 'er go! They're off and running at Stalag 17!
Equipoise! Oh, you beauty! This way! This way!
Equipoise! Equipoise! What did I tell you, Animal?
Come on, baby! Daddy's going to buy you a hunk of cheese!
The winner is No. 5: Schnickelfritz!
Schnickelfritz! I told you Schnickelfritz! Why'd you make me bet on Equipoise!
I clocked him this morning. He was running like a doll.
 You clocked him! Why don't I clock you?
 The next race will be a claiming race for four months old and upward which have not won since November 17th.
It's a good thing nobody ever asked for a saliva test. Because I wouldn't have put it past Sefton to stiff a horse once in a while -- especially when the betting was heavy.
Another one of his enterprises was the distillery. Believe it or not, he ran a bar right in our barrack, selling Schnapps at two cigarettes a shot. The boys called it the Flamethrower, but it wasn't really that bad. We brewed it out of old potato peels and once in a while a couple of strings off the Red Cross parcels, to give it a little flavor.
 It's not fair, Harry. I'm telling you, it's not fair! She's been married for over a year! My Betty! She had a baby! Didn't you hear it on the radio!
C'mon, Animal! Pull yourself together!  Hey, Cookie! Belt us again!
Look at her! Isn't she beautiful! Married an orchestra leader!
So what? There's other women!
Not for me! Betty! Betty!
Cut it out. Animal! I'll fix you up with a couple of those Russian women!
 You'll fix me up!
Sure, Animal! I'll get you over there!
How? Pinky Miller from Barrack 8 tried to get over there and they shot him in the leg!
It takes a gimmick, Animal, and I figured us a little gimmick.
You did?
 Sharp. Sometimes I'm so sharp it's frightening.
 To the Brick Kremlin!
 She'll never forgive me!
Bombs away!
 What are you serving today? Nitric acid?
I only work here. Talk to the Management.
All right, Management. What are you trying to do? Embalm us while we're alive?
Exactly what did you expect for two cigarettes? Eight year old Bottled- In-Bond? All the house guarantees is that you don't go blind.  Don't ever serve 'em again.
Blind! Harry! Harry!
Harry -- I'm blind!
 Blind? How stupid can you get, Animal? I drank the stuff myself.
Animal! Animal! Where are you, Animal?
The killer-diller, of course -- the real bonanza -- was when Sefton put up the Observatory. He scrounged himself some high-powered Kraut lenses and a magnifying mirror and got Ronnie Bigelow from Barrack 2 to put the whole shebang together for a pound of coffee. On a clear day you could have seen the Swiss Alps, only who wanted to see the Swiss Alps? It was about a mile away, that Russian delousing shack, but we were right on top of it. It cost you a cigarette or a half bar of chocolate a peek. You couldn't catch much through that steam, but believe you me, after two years in that camp just the idea what was behind that steam sure spruced up your voltage.
Let's go! Thirty seconds to a customer.
 Hey, Sefton -- what's snarling up the traffic? By the time we get to look they'll be old hags!
Simmer down, boys. There'll be a second show when they put the next batch through.
What's the big idea, Sefton? Take that telescope out of here.
Says who?
Says me.
You take it out. Only you're going to have a riot on your hands.
Every time the men get Red Cross packages you have to think up an angle to rob them.
When the Krauts find that gadget they'll throw us all in the boob.
They know about that gadget. I'd worry more about the radio.
I suppose they also know about your distillery and the horseraces?
That's right.
Just what makes you and them Krauts so buddy-buddy?
Ask Security.  You tell him, Price. You've got me shadowed every minute of the day. Or haven't you found out yet?
Not yet.
Answer the question. How do you rate all those privileges?
I grease the Kraut guards. With ten percent of the take.
And maybe a little something else?
A little something what?
 Maybe a little information!
Break it off!
How much more do we have to take from him?
There'll be no vigilante stuff. Not while I'm Barrack Chief.
Hey, look at them! It's Harry and the Animal! Look what they're doing!
Those crazy jerks! They won't get away with it! The Krauts will shoot them!
They're past the fifty yard line! Quarterback sneak! Look at them go!
 We want a touchdown! We want a touchdown! We want a touchdown!
Those idiots! They'll paint themselves into their graves!
Was ist denn hier los? Sie sind verhaftet!
Now let me see, what came next? Oh, yes. Next came those new prisoners. 'Twas two days before Christmas when all through the camp, not a creature was stirring, not even that lamp.
At ease! At ease!
Mail call!
At ease! At ease! First, the Kommandant is sending every barrack a little Christmas present. A copy of Mein Kampf. In the words of Oberst von Scherbach: 'Now that a German victory is in sight, all American prisoners are to be indoctrinated with the teachings of der Fuehrer. Unquote. In my own words: (he lets go with a belch) Unquote.
That's the wrong direction.
You must have been some tail gunner!  Go ahead, Cookie.
Come on, let's get that mail. Anything for Stanislaus Kuzawa?
At ease! At ease!
Martin. Shapiro. Price. Trzcinski. McKay. Shapiro. Shapiro. Manfredi.
Shapiro. Musgrove. McKay. Peterson. Cook.
Pirelli. Coleman. Agnew. Shapiro.
 Nothing for Kuzawa?
Shapiro. Shapiro.
 Just what makes you so popular?
 Frightening, isn't it? Fifty million guys floating around back home and all those dames want is Sugar-lips Shapiro.
McKay, Agnew. Here, Stosh.
 Yeah?
Give this to Joey, will you?
Oh.
At ease! At ease! Here's a little something from Father Murray. One to each barrack.
And he says he wants you cruds to cut out all swearing during Yuletide.
How'd he get those trees?
I don't know. Prayed, I guess. They grew out of his mattress.
What'll we use for decorations?
For that you got to pray yourself.
'...and we do hope that you will finish that last year of law school when you come back home...'  Law school?! You don't want to be a stinking lawyer with a stinking brief case in a stinking office, do you, Joey?
'...And do keep writing, son. Your letters are very dear to us. With all our love, Dad.' Here, Joey, take it.
It's from your Dad, Joey.
The next time we write to your folks, Joey, you know what you're going to say? You're going to say you don't want to be a lawyer any more. You want to be a musician -- like play the flute, maybe -- eh, Joey?
I believe it! I believe it!
You believe what?
My wife.  'Darling, you won't believe it, but I found the most adorable baby on our doorstep and I have decided to keep it for our own. Now, you won't believe it, but it's got exactly my eyes and nose...' Why does she always say I won't believe it? I believe it!
This is from my mother.  'I saw a wonderful article on German prison camps in one of the magazines. They showed pictures of the tennis courts and they also say that in the winter they freeze them over so you boys can ice skate...'
Anything about us grouse hunting in the Vienna woods?
 '...In a way I'm glad you're not in America right now -- with everything rationed here, like gas and meat.'
Heart-rendering, ain't it? Why don't we send them some food parcels?
What do those broads say?
What do they always say?
That's what I wanna hear.
 It's not good for you, Animal.
Hey! This is with a typewriter! It's from a finance company!
So it is from the finance company. So it's better than no letter at all. So they want the third payment on the Plymouth. (showing him five more letters) So they want the fourth, the fifth, the sixth and the seventh. So they want the Plymouth.
Sugar-lips Shapiro! Frightening, ain't it?
 This is a good one!  Shut up, everybody! Listen to this!  'The President of the United States to Harry Shapiro. Greeting: Having submitted yourself to a local board, you are hereby notified to report...' What do you know! So now I'm a draft evader!
 This is it, gentlemen. Don't bother to scrape your shoes.
Okay, gang! Meet our new guests. This is Lieutenant Dunbar and this is Sergeant Bagradian.
Lieutenant?!
Knock it off, boys. The pleasure's all mine.
The Lieutenant will be with us for a week or so until the Krauts can ship him to the officers' camp in Silesia. Looks like all the railroad lines out of Frankfurt are fouled up because somebody blew up an ammunition train.
Somebody, my eye.  The Lieutenant did it -- right in the station -- with fifty German guards around.
 Well! Glad to have you with the organization!
You're just in time for the Christmas Pageant.
Looks more like the lost company of Tobacco Road.
If he can imitate a girl, he's made.
Hey -- do Lionel Barrymore.
Do Grable.
Stop it, boys. They were shot down two days ago and they've been on their feet ever since.  Fix them some tea, will you? (to Dunbar and Bagradian) Price will show you your bunks.
We had a couple of unexpected vacancies. Which one will it be -- the upper or lower, Lieutenant Dunbar?
Doesn't matter.
Lieutenant Dunbar? It wouldn't be James Schuyler Dunbar? From Boston?
Yes, it would. Do we know each other?
 He's from Boston, too. But you wouldn't know him, not unless you had your house robbed.
Maybe he would. We applied for Officers' Training together, remember? They turned me down, but I'm glad to see you made it. Of course, it couldn't be that all that dough behind you had something to do with it!  His mother's got twenty million dollars.
Twenty-five.
They've got a summer house in Nantucket, with an upstairs polo field.  You better put a canopy over his bunk.
Lay off, Sefton.
 With your mother's pull, how come you're not a chicken colonel by now?
Lay off, I said -- if you don't want your head handed to you.
 Tea is being served on the verandah!
 Where are the napkins, Animal?
 Do be seated, Bonita. What a perfectly charming table arrangement. They must have copied it from House Beautiful.
Animal! How many times have I told you, you got to pour from the left!
Dinner will be served at seven sharp. Black tie.
Where'd they get you, Lieutenant? Over Frankfurt?
On the Schweinfurt run.
How many ships did you lose?
Half the group.
Flying out of England?
Yes. Paddington, 92nd Bomber Group.
 Hey, Lieutenant. How did you blow up that train with fifty guards around?
Just lucky, I guess.
Don't let him kid you. Cagney couldn't have pulled a sweeter job.  All right, boys. We were waiting in the depot in Frankfurt, see? And there was an ammunition train coming through, the longest ammunition train you ever saw, see? So Dunbar gets himself in the men's room, see? Fixes himself a time bomb, busts open the window and just as the train moves out, lays the thing in there, see? So then, he comes out like nothing's happened and three minutes later you can hear it -- boom! Broke every window in Frankfurt. It was gorgeous!
I wouldn't talk about things like that.
 They never caught on.
They may. That's why I would keep my mouth shut.
We're all Americans here!
The Krauts have a way of getting information.
Especially in this barrack.
How?
That's what we'd like to know.
 There's only one pair left.
 We'll get some more.
Where does a guy take a hot shower around here?
Hot showers? Dig him!
Sorry. No hot showers. You wash in the latrine.
Latrine?
 What did you expect, glamor boy? The Officers' Club with a steam room and a massage maybe?
 Just a minute. You made a couple of cracks before and I let them slide. But I don't intend to take any more. If you resent my having money, start a revolution, but get off my back.
Look, Lieutenant. All your dough won't help you here. Because here you're on your own. And no mother to throw you a lifebelt. Now let's see how good you can swim.
Sorry, boys, but my taxi's waiting.
What's wrong with him?
Plenty.
Number one on the rat parade!
It was a funny thing about Sefton and me. I guess I knew him as well as anybody else in the camp because I had worked for him for two years. But there were lots of things I didn't know about him. Take for instance, where he would disappear to once in a while. Of course, I had a hunch, but it seemed so crazy I couldn't quite believe it -- Just as I would never have believed that Sefton was the guy that would give away Lieutenant Dunbar for blowing up that ammunition train.
 Cut the horseplay, Harry. What's the matter with you guys?
And don't blame me if you all wind up in the cooler.
How's two?
Get ready! Here he comes!
Gentlemen! Gentlemen! Attention!
Heil, Hitler!
 Heil, Hitler!
 Droppen Sie dead.
 Quiet! We are indoctrinating!  Is you all indoctrinated?
 Jawohl.
Is you all good Nazis?
Jawohl.
Is you all little Adolfs?
Jawohl!
Then we shall all zalute Feldwebel von und zu Schulz! About face!
Sieg heil! Sieg heil! Sieg Heil!
Ach! One Fuehrer is enough! Now please, gentlemen! Take off the mustaches immediately. Or do you want me arrested by the Gestapo?
Jawohl!
You would be very sorry to get a new Feldwebel. Somebody without a sense of humor.
Okay, boys. Wipe off the mustaches. Now what is it, Schulz?
Gentlemen, tomorrow morning the Geneva Man is coming to inspect the camp whether we are living up to the International Convention. I am sure he will find we are treating you very well. You must not run around in your underwear. And take off the wash. The Kommandant wants all the barracks to be spic and also span.
We'll put pink ribbons on the bedbugs.
The Kommandant also sends you clean blankets. He wants every man to have a new, clean blanket.
We know! We got them last year. Five minutes after the Geneva Man was gone, the blankets were gone.
One more thing, gentlemen. The Kommandant told me to pick up the radio.
What radio?
The one you are hiding in the barrack, don't you know? The one your friend without the leg is smuggling all over the compound.
Schulz, you're off your nut!
Give me the radio.
We have no radio.
All right, gentlemen, I will find it myself. Now let's see.
Am I cold? Am I getting warmer? Hot, maybe? Very hot?
 What is this? This is water?
It's a mouse trap.
 And this?
My grandmother's ear-muffs.
 Look at them, Lieutenant. Everybody is a clown! How do you expect to win the war with an army of clowns?
We sort of hope you'll laugh yourselves to death.
Now, outside everybody, for the blankets! Everybody out!
Outside! You, too!
That Schulz pig. I'll get him yet.
You hold him. I'll slug him.
It's not Schulz. It's that stoolie. Whoever he is, he's sure batting a thousand.
The guy I want to talk to is Sefton. Where's Sefton? (turns to Cookie, who is coming up in the line) You haven't seen Sefton, have you?
 No, I haven't.
 Der Naechste!
 Henkel! Krause!  I'm very sorry about the mouse trap, but the war news are very depressing anyway.
I might as well also confiscate the antenna.
American know-how!
All right, Cookie, let's hear it: where is Sefton?
I don't know. I told you.
He wouldn't be at the Kommandant's, would he?
I don't know.
What did they trade him for the radio?
I don't know.
Why don't we just look in those footlockers?
Come on, you little stooge. Hand over them keys.
I haven't got any keys.
Okay. Then I'll get me a key.
Okay, Hoffy?
Okay.
Of all the hoarding cruds!
Looks like Macey's basement, don't it?
That kid's richer than my mother.
Shut up!
For cryin' out loud! What would he be doing with these?
Suppose you ask me.
Go on, ask me! Because I got the goods on Mister Sefton. Because this time he didn't shake me.
Take a look for yourself. It'll curdle your guts.
The Russian women!
Try the end barrack. Where the goodies are.
 Come on, Hoffy! We all want to see!
 How did he get over there?
Easy! Walked right through the gate, past the guard. Like he was some Kraut Field Marshal.
This is murder!
 Go play with your marbles!
The stinkin' miser! Keeping all that to himself!
Would I like to lay my hands on him!
 Who wants to lay their hands on him?
 So I'm a vigilante, huh? So what are the Barrack Officers going to do now?
Don't worry Duke. We'll handle it from here on in.
You better handle it fast. Before a few more of us get knocked off.
 Hi.
Too late for chow?
What's the matter, boys? Is my slip showing?
I'll say it is. You spilled a little borscht on it.
Borscht?
Have a nice time over there?
Oh! Somebody was peeking!
Yeah! Had a dreamy time! Those dames, they really know how to throw a party. I've handled some pretty interesting material in my day, but between you and me, there's just nothing like the hot breath of the Cossacks. There's a couple of blonde snipers over there, real man-killers...
What's this?
What happened, Cookie? Who did it?
We did it.
There better not be anything missing. This is private property.
So was the radio private property. So was Manfredi and Johnson.
What about the radio?
 Yeah, what about it?  Cut the horsing around. We know he's the stoolie and we know what the pay- off is. Let's get on with it.
Let's get on with what? What is this anyway? A Kangaroo Court? Why don't you get a rope and do it right?
You make my mouth water.
You're all wire happy, boys. You've been in this camp too long. You put two and two together and it comes out four. Only it ain't four.
What's it add up to you, Sefton?
It adds up that you got yourselves the wrong guy. Because I'm telling you. The Krauts wouldn't plant two stoolies in one barrack. And whatever you do to me you're going to have to do all over again when you find the right guy.
 Watch it!
Good evening, Sergeants.  A bit dank in here, isn't it?... Where is the Baracken-Fuehrer?
 Yes, sir.
You have a Lieutenant here...
 ...a Lieutenant James Dunbar?
Yes, sir.
I am Lieutenant Dunbar.
What is your number?
 105-353.
 That is correct.  Lieutenant Dunbar, I came to apologize for the accommodations. Ordinarily, of course, we never put officers up with enlisted men.
I'll live.
Quite a transportation jam we are having outside of Frankfurt! They are very angry in Berlin. They will be even angrier on the East Front, waiting for that ammunition train. Don't you think so, Lieutenant?
I don't know what you're talking about, Colonel.
Of course you don't. Now, Lieutenant, how would you like to join me in my quarters? I have a nice fire going.
I'm okay here. Why bother?
No bother. I'm very grateful for a little company. You see, I suffer from insomnia.
Ever try forty sleeping pills?
 Abfuehren!
 Wait a minute. We have some rights here.  Why is this man being taken out?
 Curtains would do wonders for this barrack.  You will not get them.
How did he ever find out about that ammunition train?
You must have shot off your mouth all the way from Frankfurt to here.
We did not.
Maybe just a hint or so. Think hard.
I don't have to think. We didn't tell anything to anybody. Not a word. Not until we hit this barrack.
What are you looking at me for?
I suppose some jerk's going to say I did it.
Why don't you try it one at a time?
Now, there's a lot of folks around these days that don't believe in Santa Claus. I always did and I always will. For a while there, I thought the German Luftwaffe had shot him down, reindeer, sleigh and all. But, no sir! Come the day before Christmas, he showed up with some presents for us, the Geneva Man did. He had started out with seven truckloads. He was lucky to get one of them through -- with all the bombing and booby traps and pilfering. Still, they were presents and made you feel good: coffee, a little sugar and some candy and toothbrushes and about a thousand rolls of that sanitary paper. Brother, they sure kept sending us reams of that stuff. I'll bet you if they had dropped all that paper on Berlin the first day, the war would have been over right then and there.
Schnell! Schnell! Bevor der Mann vom Roten Kreuz inspizieren kommt!
Nehmen Sie das hinaus!
Hey, Schulz!
 What is this? You must get out of the bunk. The Geneva Man is coming to inspect the barrack!
Du lieber Gott! How do you look? You had a fight?
 How would you like to give Frau Schulz a pair of silk stockings for Christmas?
You should go and see the doctor. Maybe I can --  Silk stockings?
Here. Take them.
Wunderbar! Maybe they are too wunderbar for my wife. But there is a piano teacher in the village --
And how about three hundred cigarettes for yourself?
Three hundred cigarettes! What is it you want from me?
Who's the guy, Schulz?
What guy?
The one you work with. Who is he? How do you do it?
I do not want those cigarettes.
Yes, you do!
I'll make it five hundred!
No! No!
You'd better talk, Schulz, because I'm going to find out with you or without you. Because I won't let go for a second. Because they'll have to kill me to stop me. So talk!
Talk what? I do not know anything!
How many do you want? A thousand?
Take it! Take it!
Gentlemen! When the Geneva Man comes through the barrack, I don't want any funny business. No mustaches. We will all behave ourselves.
And gentlemen! You will not complain to the Geneva Man. Because I have orders from the Kommandant to report everyone who complains.
Look at him! Dunbar's being crucified and he's trading again!
Didn't you get enough last night? You itching for more?
Some guys never learn!
I called a meeting of the barrack chiefs this morning, Sefton. I thought maybe I could get you transferred into another barrack. It turns out nobody likes you any more than we do.
So you're stuck with me, eh?
Maybe those Russian dames would take him.
Not with that kisser -- not any more!
 Here... put some ice on it.
Beat it, stooge!  Go on -- tell the crumb where he stands.
All right, Sefton. You got away lucky last night. One more move, no matter how small, and you'll wake up with your throat slit!
You heard that, Sefton?
Sure I heard it. I still got one good ear.
Achtung! Achtung! Everybody at attention for the Geneva Man!
As you were, gentlemen. Please.
Here we have a typical barrack. It houses seventy-five men. Every one of them has his own bunk, naturally.
Naturally. It would be rather awkward to have three men in one bunk.
As for the blankets, you will notice they are very warm. Fifty percent wool.
They also smell of moth balls. (to a P.O.W. at that particular bunk) When were they issued? This morning?
 What do you do for heat in this barrack? No stove?
The men here used it for a trap door, so we had to remove it temporarily.
How long is temporarily? I trust not until July.
Here you see a typical meal the prisoners are getting. What are we having today, Schulz?
Bean soup with ham hocks. Would you like to taste it? (fishing with the ladle) Where's the ham hock? There should be a ham hock.
When he finds it, we'll send it to Geneva.
Are there any complaints? Please speak up.
Don't be afraid to talk. That's what the Geneva Convention is for: to protect the rights of prisoners of war. Whether they are Americans or Germans.
 What have you got to say?
I like it here.  Aeh!
 What about you?
It's all right. Considering.
What happened to you? Were you beaten? Why don't you answer? (to the German Lieutenant) What did you do to this man?
They didn't do nothing.
Who beat you?
Nobody beat me. We were playing pinochle. It's a rough game.
 Pardon me, sir. Since you want us to speak up, there was a man removed from this barrack last night. A Lieutenant Dunbar. We sure would appreciate your looking into it. That's if they haven't shot him yet.
 Why was the man arrested?
Sabotage. He blew up a train.
They'd have to prove that first, wouldn't they? Isn't that what the Geneva Convention says? You can't just take a man out and shoot him!
You have no idea how boring my life here is. If it weren't for an occasional air raid or some foolish prisoners trying to escape, I wouldn't know what to do. I want to thank you for keeping me company. I don't drink, I don't smoke, I don't read. I hate music. That only leaves good conversation. It will be a shame to lose you.
 I didn't do it -- I didn't do it.
Of course you did! Twenty-six carloads of munitions gone off like a trick cigar! The S.S. is running around in circles. The Gestapo is arresting the wrong people. And von Scherbach has caught the fish. Most amusing, isn't it?
 You are being rude again.
I want to sleep. Give me five minutes on that couch.
 Nine-thirty. General von Pfeffinger should be at his desk by now. Shall we call Berlin and tell him the good news?
 I didn't do it. I didn't do it.
 Hauptkommando Berlin. General von Pfeffinger. Dringend.
I hope you appreciate this moment, Lieutenant. You see, I am a cavalry man. All the von Scherbachs were cavalry men. Well, you know what happened to the cavalry. The young ones they put into panzer divisions. The older ones they put in the quartermaster's corps. Or they made them recruiting officers or wardens. Like me. Wet nurses to putrid prisoners. In Berlin they have forgotten that Colonel von Scherbach even exists. They will remember now!
 Berlin? Hier Oberst von Scherbach. General von Pfeffinger?  Oberst von Scherbach. Stalag 17. Melde gehorchsamst haben als Gefangenen den Mann, der Munitionszug in Frankfurt in die Luft gesprengt hat. Jawohl, Herr General --  -- Name Leutenant Dunbar. Sabotage. Jawohl, Herr General.
There will be two S.S. men here tomorrow to take you to Berlin. You will be interrogated by the General Staff. When you come to the part about your arrest, I'm sure you won't forget to give me the proper credit.
 I want to sleep... I haven't slept for three days.
 You will remember the name? Von Scherbach? VON SCHER-BACH!
Herein!
Der Mann vom Roten Kreuz moechte den Herrn Oberst sprechen!
Ich bitte!
Well, Herr Inspector! How did you find the camp? Crowded but gemuetlich, shall we say?
I want to talk about Lieutenant Dunbar. Is this Lieutenant Dunbar?
It is.
What exactly is he charged with?
Whatever it is, it's out of your jurisdiction. This man is not a prisoner of war. Not any more. He is a saboteur.
He is a prisoner of war until you can prove sabotage.
I didn't do it. I was in the Frankfurt station and the train was three miles away when it blew up.
Oh, come now! You threw a time bomb.
How could I have had a time bomb? They searched me when they took me prisoner.
And the way you search your prisoners, it does sound rather unlikely.
All I know is he did it. I am satisfied.
I am not. According to the Geneva Convention --
Is there anything about letting a guy sleep in the Geneva Convention?
 You were saying --?
Simply this. After the hostilities are ended, there will be such a thing as a War Crimes Commission. If this man should be convicted without proper proof, you will be held responsible, Colonel von Scherbach.
Interesting.
Isn't it?
Very well. If you insist on details. I have ways of finding out about that blasted time bomb. Good day, sir. (indicating stocking feet) You will forgive me for receiving you like this?
Perfectly all right. I do not like boots.
Schulz!
Wie ist es moeglich dass dieser Amerikaner eine Bombe bei sich hatte? Er wurde doch bei der Gefangennahme untersucht.
Jawohl, Herr Kommandant.
Finden Sie es heraus -- und zwar sofort!
Zu Befehl, Herr Kommandant.
I believe it. I believe it.
 Put it down, boys.
Hey, -- music!
We made a deal with Barrack One.
 Any news on Dunbar?
He's still in the Kommandant's office. That's all I know.
Over here.
 Let's have that distillery. Come on.
What are you looking at him for?  Any objections, Sefton?
Take it.
 Next we're going to auction off your department store -- and your stable.
Why not?
 Hey! That goes with it!
Do Bogart. Do Cary Grant.
Do Cagney.
Naw! Do Grable!
Okay.
Grable, not Gable!
Do Jimmy Durante!
Do Cagney. Like you did yesterday.
 There was that ammunition train in the depot at Frankfurt, see? So Dunbar gets himself in the men's room and fixes a time bomb, see? Then he waits until the train starts moving out, see? And one of the cars got the door open with some straw on the floor, see? So he throws it, see, and three minutes later -- voom! See?
Throws what? How could he have a time bomb?
Just pulled the old match gag, see!
What's the match gag?
Take some matches, see? (takes a book of matches from his pocket) And a cigarette, see? (takes a burning cigarette from Triz' mouth) Tuck the cigarette in like this, see? (tucks the cigarette inside cover of match- book with the lit end sticking out) Now the cigarette keeps burning like a fuse, see?
Say, that's a dandy!
 Yeah. Pretty clever.
Do Grable.
Hey, here's Esther Williams.
Nothing, eh?
Do Cary Grant.
Where's the corkscrew?
Have a cigar.
Thanks.
Hey, Joey -- there's a present for you.
Want me to open it for you?
There, Joey -- ain't that better than being a lawyer?
 Animal! Got a little something for you!
Got a little something for you, too!
I'll open mine now.
I'll open mine, too.
Air raid warning.
Not Christmas Eve!
 Come on, everybody. Let's get out. Let's hit those slit trenches.
 I'm not really built for war.
Out, out everybody!
You must get out. For your own good, you must get out.
Come on, everybody!  Let's go!
What's the matter with you? You want to be killed?
Not particularly.
 Must you always be the last?
Oh, yeah? You jump in those trenches first and everybody jumps on top of you!
How do you think I got my hernia?
Nun? Was ist? Haben Sie's herausgefunden?
Ich weiss alles.
Wie hat er's gemacht?
Ganz einfach... Streichhoelzer... und eine Zigarette...
Passen Sie auf!
Ach so!... ACH SO!
 Air raid! Air raid! Everybody in the trenches!
Ach so-o-o-o!
So it got to be Christmas Day in Stalag 17. As it turned out, it was more like the Fourth of July -- with all the fireworks that were to go off all at once and bust the camp wide open. It sure started off innocently enough, with a party going on in every barracks...
Come on, Animal -- let's trip the light fantastic!
Let me alone.
You're crying, Animal.
It's that song, Harry!
 You don't want to cry over a dame that doesn't even know you're alive! Snap out of it!
There's a time in every man's life when he wants to be alone! So go away!
All right, boys, who wants the Queen of the May?
Any cigars left, Cookie?
Come on, Cookie. Get me a cigar.
What's the matter? You on their team now? You think I'm the guy?
I don't know anymore.
I understand how you feel, Cookie. It's sort of rough -- one American squealing on other Americans. Then again, Cookie -- maybe that stoolie's not an American at all. Maybe he's a German the Krauts planted in this barracks. They do this type of thing. Just put an agent in with us -- a trained specialist. Lots of loose information floating around a prison camp. Not just whether somebody wants to escape, but what outfits we were with and where we were stationed, and how our radar operates. Could be, couldn't it?
In this barracks?
Why not? Just one of the boys. Sharing our bunks. Eating our chow. Right in amongst the ones that beat me up. Except that he beat hardest.
Who is it?
That's not the point, Cookie. The point is what do you do with him? You tip your mitt and the Jerries pull him out of here and plant him someplace else, like Stalag Sixteen or Fifteen. Or you kill him off and the Krauts turn around and kill off the whole barracks. Every one of us. So what do you do?
Who is it?
If you don't want to tell me, why don't you tell Hoffy? Or Security?
Yeah. Security.
Where's Hoffy? Why don't we get any news about Dunbar?
Don't worry. He'll be all right.
I had to be the ham! I had to shoot off my mouth!
Forget it. He'll be back here. They've got no proof.
 Sweet and soft, boys. Beguile me.
 Betty!... Betty!
May I have this dance, Miss?
Why, sure!
Who would've ever thought I'd be holding you in my arms?
Pinch me, will you? Pinch me so I'll know I'm not dreaming.
Thank you, darling!
Did anybody ever tell you you have the most beautiful legs in the world?
But it's not just those legs. It's that nose of yours I'm crazy about. That cute little button of a nose!
 Hey, Animal! Animal!
 I've been crazy about you for years. I've seen every picture you've ever made six times. I'd just sit there and never even open that popcorn bag.
 Animal! Animal! Wake up!
Betty! Betty!
 This is me, Animal! It's Harry Shapiro!
Cut that music! Cut it! Listen!
The S.S. Men are here to pick up Dunbar. They're taking him to Berlin. Looks like he's finished.
Only he ain't quite finished yet. Blondie -- get that smudge pot. Tie it to Steve's leg.
What are you going to do?
I want everybody out of here. We'll need a lot of commotion on the compound.
I'll get the men from the other barracks.
 You don't think you can snatch Dunbar? Not from the S.S.?
We're sure going to make a stab at it. You, Price and Stosh and Harry and Blondie -- be at the north latrine. You'll all get your posts. Now everybody start drifting out with Marko.
Easy, boys, easy. Disperse out there nicely and always remember just because the Krauts are dumb that doesn't make them stupid.
 Ready?
Roger.
 Okay. Move on.
I don't know what your scheme is, but it sounds crazy.
Maybe it's crazy, but it's better than having Dunbar dead.
Just as you say, Hoffy. But wouldn't it be smarter if I went out and kept Schulz tied up?
Good.
 I wouldn't worry about Schulz. I'd worry about Sefton. Remember me? I'm the stoolie.
You ain't going to squeal this one, brother.
No? Aren't you a little afraid to turn the stoolie loose on that compound? For a tip-off like this, you know what the Krauts would pay?
You'll stay in this barracks and not a peep out of you.
Okay, then. Put a guard on me. I want you to put a guard on me. Because if anything goes wrong out there, this time you won't have a patsy. Right?
Right.
So who stays with me? Maybe Joey? No -- not Joey. Wouldn't you feel safer with Security on the job?
Okay, Price. You stay.
What about Schulz?
We'll take care of Schulz.  Come on.
That's the boy, Joey. Play us a little something. What do you want to hear, Price? Home On The Range? Or maybe a little Wagner?
Or how about a game of pinochle? No, you're not a pinochle man. You're a chess player.  I haven't played since I was a kid. Let's see -- (maneuvers the white pieces) -- a pawn moves this way, doesn't it? And a bishop this way? And the queen -- every which way, doesn't it?
Suppose you just sit down and keep your mouth shut.
 I went to school with a guy named Price. But that was in Boston. You're from Cleveland, aren't you.
Yes, I'm from Cleveland.
I thought that's what you said. You're from Cleveland. And you were with the Thirty-sixth Bomb Group?
Thirty-fifth.
Three hundred and sixty-fifth Bomb Squadron? Out of Chelveston?
Are you questioning me?
Just getting acquainted. Trying to make one friend in this barracks.
Don't bother, Sefton. I don't like you. I never did and I never will.
A lot of people say that and the first thing you know is they get married and live happily ever after.  I wonder what they're trying to pull out there?
Ach so!
What did you say?
Amazing, what you can do with five thousand ping-pong balls, isn't it?
 Stop that, will you!  Those idiots! So they sprang Dunbar! So what good is it? He's still in the compound, isn't he? How long can he last? Where can they hide him?
Where. Up Joey's ocarina. Didn't you know?
Yeah? Where did we hide him? Nobody knew that except Hoffy -- not one of us -- and he wouldn't talk. It sure drove the Krauts crazy looking for Dunbar. They herded us all out into the compound and put some extra machine guns on us and gave us the old picture check. You know, checking our dogtags and our pans...
...against their index file. They searched under the barracks. They searched the roofs. They even searched the bathroom in the Kommandant's office, but no Dunbar. Then they tried to smoke him out, throwing tear gas bombs into every barracks, just in case he was hiding up in the rafters. Then they made us stand for six hours out there until finally von Scherbach came out and gave us his ultimatum: if Dunbar didn't come out by next morning he'd raze the whole lous; compound, stick by stick and if we'd sleep in the mud for the rest of our lives, that was okay by him. I thought he'd bust his gut the way he was screaming. He just couldn't figure how a guy could disappear from the compound and still be there, but Dunbar was there all right. He sure was there.
He was there for half the night, his feet right in the icy water. That's tough to take, especially when you got three heated pools at home. It took a lot of guts, the kind you'd expect from a sergeant -- but a lieutenant --!
 Let's have it understood men -- this is going to be a rough deal. But we have no choice. One of us must take Dunbar out of the camp tonight. Right away. We'll draw one dogtag and the guy who goes with it does the job. It's going to be rough because the Krauts have put on extra guards and they are expecting a move like this. So if anyone wants to withdraw, he better speak up now.
Then we're all in on it?
Everybody but Joey, and you know who.
Okay.  Who's the lucky one?
Let me do it, Hoffy.
You want to go?
No. I want to draw.
All right.  Draw.
Suppose we call this my tag. I'll take him out.
No volunteers, Price. I said we're all in on it.
You have elected me Security. The way things have been going in this Barracks, I guess I've done a poor job and I want to make up for it. Is that asking too much?
We've all done a poor job of it.
I still say this is my tag. Any objections, Hoffy?
Any objections, men?
Not from me.
He can have it.
 Who are we to argue with a hero?
How about me latching on, Price?
Three's a crowd, especially if you've got to cut your way through barbed wire. (hands Price wire cutters) Here's the wire cutters.  Are the civilian clothes ready?
 Coming up.
 Get going on the trap door.
What do you say, Hoffy. We'll hit the air raid trenches and cut out in back of Barracks nine.
You'd better cut out in back of the south latrine.
Why the south latrine?
Because that's where he is. In the water tank.
Good spot. With any luck we'll make Krems by morning, or maybe even catch a barge to Linz.
Two packs of cigarettes say Dunbar never gets out of the compound.
You starting that again?
Anybody cover?
 Somebody step on that crumb!
We warned you, Sefton!
Sure you warned me. You were going to slit the throat of that stoolie.
Here's the knife to do it with. Only make sure you got the right throat.
We're looking at it.
 Hurry up on that trap.  What are you trying to do, Sefton? Gum up the works?
That's right. Or would you rather see Dunbar lying out there in the mud tomorrow morning like Manfredi and Johnson?
Look, Sefton, I had my hands full so they wouldn't tear you apart --
I called it the last time, didn't I?
Are we going to stand around here and listen to him until the Germans find out where Dunbar is?
The Germans know where Dunbar is.
How do they know?
You told them, Hoffy.
Who did?
You did!
You off your rocker?
Uh-huh. Fell right on my head.  Sprechen sie deutsch?
No. I don't sprechen sie deutsch.
Maybe just one word? Kaput? Because you're kaput, Price.
Will you get this guy out of my hair so I can go?
Go where? To the Kommandant's office and tell him where Dunbar is?
 I'll kill you for that!
Shut up!  Security Officer, eh? Screening everybody, only who screened you? Great American hero. From Cleveland, Ohio! Enlisted right after Pearl Harbor! When was Pearl Harbor, Price? Or, don't you know?
December seventh, forty-one.
What time?
Six o'clock. I was having dinner.
Six o'clock in Berlin. They were having lunch in Cleveland.  Am I boring you, boys?
Go on.
He's a Nazi, Price is. For all I know, his name is Preismaier or Preissinger. Sure, he lived in Cleveland, but when the war broke out he came back to the Fatherland like a good little Bundist. He spoke our lingo so they put him through spy school, gave him phony dogtags --
He's lying! He's just trying to get himself off the hook!
 Shut up, he said.
You heard him.
Okay, Herr Preismaier, let's have the mail box.
The what?
The one you took out of the corner of your bunk and put in this pocket.
Now let me show you how they did it. They did it by mail. That's right. Little love notes between our Security Officer and von Scherbach with Schulz the mail man. (ties up a loop in the light cord) Here's the flag.  And here's the mail box. (grins at Price, who is sweating) Cute, isn't it? They delivered the mail or picked it up when we were out of the barracks, like for Appell. When there was a special delivery, they'd pull a phony air raid to get us out of here, like for instance, last night.  There wasn't a plane in the sky -- or was there, Price?
 Hilfe!
 Gag him.
Brother, were we all wet about you!
 Forget it.
 What are we going to do with him?
Don't you know? Because I got my own ideas.  Let's have that civilian stuff.
I'll look pretty stupid in this, yodelling my way over those Alps. Now let's have the wire cutters.
You taking Dunbar?
You betcha. There ought to be some reward money from Mama. Say ten thousand bucks worth.
I told you boys I'm no escape artist, but for the first time, I like the odds. Because now I got me a decoy.
What's the decoy?
Price. When I go I want you to give me five minutes. Exactly five minutes to get Dunbar out of that water tank. Then you throw Price out into the compound, nice and loud. He'll draw every light from every goon tower. It's our only chance to cut through. What do you say, Barracks' Chief?
Shoot!
What's the matter, Price? You said you were going to save Dunbar, didn't you? So now, you're getting your chance.
So long, Cookie. The department store is all yours. What's left of it.
So long, Sefton.
You're not disposing of those Russian broads?
Tell you what to do. First, get yourself a hundred cigarettes for the Kraut guards. Then get yourself another face.
You could use a new one yourself.
Let's synchronize the watches. Eleven forty-two, sharp.
 Check.
One more word. If I ever run into any of you bums on a street corner, just let's pretend we never met before. Understand?
This barracks will never be the same.
Shut off the moaning, or we'll have the dogs on us. Shut it off, Lieutenant. This is orders!
My legs are frozen.
 You'd better get that blue blood circulating, because we're busting out of this stink-hole in exactly --  -- one minute and twenty seconds.
 Sefton!
What did you expect, a St. Bernard dog?
Not you.
What some brandy?
Yeah.
Who doesn't! Suppose we wait until we hit the Waldorf Astoria.
It's on me.
You won't get off that cheap.
What are the chances busting out of here?
 We'll know in forty seconds.  Only in a democracy can a poor guy get his keister shot off with a rich guy.
 Hold his leg.
 Just in case your Kameraden are hard of hearing.
Fifteen seconds. Get him up.
Stop shaking, Price. There'll be no pardon from no governor.
 Funny, ain't it? In your own Vaterland -- by your own Soldaten!  The kid's got no sense of humor.
What's the matter with you, Security? You were always so calm. Especially when you let Manfredi and Johnson go out there.  Open the hatch.
Let 'er go!
Schiesst nicht! Schiesst nicht! Ich bin ein Deutscher!
Now!
Let's blow, Chauncey.
Let's!
All right, men. Everybody back in their bunks like nothing happened.
 What do you know? The crud did it.
I'd like to know what made him do it.
Maybe he just wanted to steal our wire cutters. Ever think of that?
