Episode 1 The Phantom Menace
A long time ago in a galaxy far, far away....
While the congress of the Republic endlessly debates this alarming chain of events, the Supreme Chancellor has secretly dispatched two Jedi Knights, the guardians of peace and justice in the galaxy, to settle the conflict.....
Captain.
Yes, sir? QUI-GON Tell them we wish to board at once. CAPTAIN Yes, sir.
With all due respect for the Trade Federation, the Ambassodors for the Supreme Chancellor wish to board immediately. NUTE Yes, yes, of coarse...ahhh...as you know, our blockade is perfectly legal, and we'd be happy to recieve the Ambassador...Happy to.
They must be important if the Viceroy sent one of those useless protocol gearheads to greet them.
I'm TC-14 at your service. This way, please.
A Republic cruiser! That's trouble...don't you think? PR-4 I'm not made to think.
I hope you honoured sirs with the most comfortable here. My master will be with you shortly.
I have a bad feeling about this. QUI-GON I don't sense anything. OBI-WAN It's not about the mission, Master, it's somethging...elsewhere...elusive. QUI-GON Don't center on your anxiety, Obi-Wan. Keep your concentration here and now where it belongs. OBI-WAN Master Yoda says I should be mindful of the future... QUI-GON .....but not at the expense of the moment. Be mindful of the living Force, my young Padawan. OBI-WAN Yes, Master...how do you think the trade viceroy will deal with the chancellor's demands? QUI-GON These Federation types are cowards. The negotiations will be short.
What?!? What did you say? TC-14 The Ambassadors are Jedi Knights, I believe. DOFINE I knew it! They were sent to force a settlement, eh. Blind me, we're done for!
They must be dead by now. Blast, what's left of them.
Oh, excuse me, so sorry.
Not sure exactly what...
What in blazes is going on down there? RUNE Have you ever encountered a Jedi Knight before, sir? NUTE Well, not exactly, but I don't... Seal off the bridge. RUNE That won't be enough, sir.
I want destroyer droids up here at once!!! RUNE We will not survive this.
Close the blast doors!!!
...They're still coming through!
Impossible!! This is impossible!! RUNE Where are those destroyer droids?!
Destroyer droids! OBI-WAN Offhand, I'd say this mission is past the negotiaion stage.
Switch to bio...There they are!
They have shield generators! QUI-GON It's a standoff! Let's go!
We have them on the run, sir...they're no match for destroyer droids. TEY HOW Sir, they've gone up the ventilation shaft.
Battle droids. OBI-WAN It's an invisible army. QUI-GON It's an odd play for the Trade Federation. We've got to warn the Naboo and contact Chancellor Valorum. Let's split up. Stow aboard separate ships and meet down on the planet. OBI-WAN You were right about one thing, Master. The negotiations were short.
Sir, a transmission from the planet. RUNE It's Queen Amidala herself. NUTE At last we're getting results.
Again you come before me, Your highness. The Federation is pleased. AMIDALA You will not be pleased when you hear what I have to say, Viceroy...Your trade boycott of our planet has ended.
I was not aware of such a failure. AMIDALA I have word that the Senate is finally voting on this blockade of yours. NUTE I take it you know the outcome. I wonder why they bother to vote. AMIDALA Enough of this pretense, Viceroy! I'm aware the Chancellor's Ambassadors are with you now, and that you have beencommanded to reach a settlement. NUTE I know nothing about any Ambassadors...you must be mistaken.
Beware, Viceroy....the Federation is going too far this time. NUTE Your Highness, we would never do anything without the approval of the Senate. You assume too much. AMIDALA We will see.
She's right, the Senate will never.... NUTE It's too late now. RUNE Do you think she suspects an attack? NUTE I don't know, but we must move quickly to disrupt all communications down there.
...How could that be true? I have assurances from the Chancellor...his Ambassaodrs did arrive. It must be the...get...negotiate...
Senator Palpatine?!?  What's happening?
Check the transmission generators... BIBBLE A malfunction? CAPT. PANAKA It could be the Federation jamming us. Your Highness. BIBBLE A communications disruption can only mean one thing. Invasion. AMIDALA Don't jump to conclusions, Governor. The Federation would not dare go that far. CAPT. PANAKA The Senate would revoke their trade franchise, and they'd be finished. AMIDALA We must continue to rely on negotiation. BIBBLE Negotiation? We've lost all communications!...and where atre the Chancellors Ambassadors? How can we negotiate? We must prepare to defend ourselves. CAPT. PANAKA This is a dangerous situation, Your Highness. Our security volunteers will be no match against a battle-hardened Federation army. AMIDALA I will not condone a course of action that will lead us to war.
...and there is no trace of the Jedi. They may have gotton onto one of your landing craft. OOM-9 If they are down here, sir, we'll find them. We are moving out of the swamp and are marching on the cities. We are meeting no resistance. NUTE Excellent.
Oh, noooooooooo!
Hey, help me! Help me!! QUI-GON Let go!
Oyi, mooie-mooie! I luv yous!
Are you brainless? You almost got us killed! JAR JAR I spake. QUI-GON The ability to speak does not make you intelligent. Now get outta here!
No...no! Mesa stay...Mesa yous humble servaunt. QUI-GON That wont be necessary. JAR JAR Oh boot tis! Tis demunded byda guds. Tis a live debett, tis. Mesa culled Jaja Binkss.
I have no time for this now... JAR JAR Say what?
Oh, nooooo! Weesa ganna....
Stay down!
...dieeee!
Sorry, Master, the water fried my weapon.
You forgot to turn your power off again, didn't you?
It won't take long to recharge, but this is a lesson I hope you've learned, my young Padawan. OBI-WAN Yes, Master. JAR JAR Yousa sav-ed my again, hey? OBI-WAN What's this? QUI-GON A local. Let's go, before more of those droids show up. JAR JAR Mure? Mure did you spake??!?
Ex-squeeze me, but da moto grande safe place would be Otoh Gunga. Tis where I grew up...Tis safe city.
A city!  Can you take us there? JAR JAR Ahhh, will...on second taut...no, not willy. QUI-GON No??! JAR JAR Iss embarrissing, boot... My afrai my've bean banished. My forgoten der Bosses would do terrible tings to my. Terrible tings if my goen back dare.
You hear that?
That's the sound of a thousand terrible things heading this way... OBI-WAN When they find us, they will crush us, grind us into little pieces, then blast us into oblivion! JAR JAR Oh! Yousa point is well seen. Dis way! Hurry!
Much farther? JAR JAR Wesa goen underwater, okeyday?
My warning yous. Gungans no liken outlaunders. Don't expict a wern welcome. OBI-WAN Don't worry, this has not been our day for warm welcomes.
Breath masks on, QUI-GON and OBI-WAN wade in after him.
Heyo-dalee, Cap'n Tarpals, Mesa back! CAPT. TARPALS Noah gain, Jar Jar. Yousa goen tada Bosses. Yousa in big dudu this time.
How wude.
Yousa cannot bees hair. Dis army of mackineeks up dare tis new weesong! QUI-GON That droid army is about to attack the Naboo. We must warn them. BOSS NASS Wesa no like da Naboo! Un dey no like uss-ens. Da Naboo tink day so smarty den us-ens. Day tink day brains so big. OBI-WAN After those droids take control of the surface, they will come here and take control of you. BOSS NASS No, mesa no tink so. Mesa scant talkie witda Naboo, and no nutten talkie it outlaunders. Dos mackineeks no comen here! Dey not know of uss-en. OBI-WAN You and the Naboo form a symbiont circle. What happens to noe of you will affect the other. You must understand this. BOSS NASS Wesa wish no nutten in yousa tings, outlaunder, and wesa no care-n about da Naboo. QUI-GON Then speed us on our way. BOSS NASS Wesa gonna speed yousaway. QUI-GON We need a transport. BOSS NASS Wesa give yousa una bongo. Da speedest way tooda Naboo tis goen through da core. Now go. QUI-GON Thank you for your help. We go in peace.
Master, whats a bongo? QUI-GON A transport, I hope.
Daza setten yous up. Goen through da planet core is bad bombin!! QUI-GON Thank you, my friend. JAR JAR Ahhh...any hep hair would be hot.
We are short of time, Master. QUI-GON We'll need a navigator to get us through the planet's core. This Gungan my be of help.
What is to become of Jar Jar Binks here? BOSS NASS Binkss brokeen the nocombackie law. Hisen to be pune-ished. QUI-GON He has been a great help to us. I hope the punishment will not be too severe. BOSS NASS Pounded unto death. JAR JAR Oooooh...Ouch!
We need a navigator to get us through the planet's core. I have saved Jar Jar Binks' life. He owes me what you call a "life.debt." BOSS NASS Binks. Yousa havena liveplay with thisen hisen?
Your gods demand that his life belongs to me now. BOSS NASS Hisen live tis yos, outlauder. Begone wit him. JAR JAR Count mesa outta dis! Better dead here, den deader in da core...Yee guds, whata mesa sayin?!
Dis is nusen. OBI-WAN Master, why do you keep dragging these pathetic life forms along with us?...Here, take over. JAR JAR Hey, ho? Where wesa goen?? QUI-GON You're the navigator. JAR JAR Yo dreamen mesa hopen...,br QUI-GON Just relax, the Force will guide us... JAR JAR Ooooh, maxibig..."da Force"...Wellen, dat smells stinkowiff.
Why were you banished, Jar Jar? JAR JAR Tis a long tale, buta small part wawdabe mesa...ooooh...aaaa.....clumsy. OBI-WAN They banished you because you're clumsy?
Mesa cause-ed mabee one or duey lettal bitty axadentes...yud-say boom da gasser, un crash Der Bosses heyblibber...den banished.
Full speed ahead.
Oooops. OBI-WAN Give me the controls.
Wesa free!
There's always a bigger fish.
The invasion is on schedule, My Lord. DARTH SIDIOUS Good. I have the Senate bogged down in procedures. By the time this incident comes up for a vote, they will have no choice but to accept your control of the system. NUTE The Queen has great faith the Senate will side with her. DARTH SIDIOUS Queen Amidala is yound and naive. You will find controlling her will not be difficult. You have done well, Viceroy. NUTE Thank you, My Lord.
You didn't tell him about the missing Jedi? NUTE No need to report that to him, until we have something to report.
.....we're losing power.
Stay calm. We're not in trouble yet. JAR JAR What yet? Monstairs out dare! Leak'n in here, all'n sink'n, and nooooo power! You nutsen! WHEN YOUSA TINK WESA IN TROUBLE?!!!? OBI-WAN Power's back.
Monstairs back!
Wesa in trouble now?? QUI-GON Relax.
You overdid it.
Wesa dead yet?? Oie Boie!
Head for that outcropping.
Ah, victory!
Wesa dude it!
Wesa safe now. QUI-GON Get this thing started. JAR JAR Dissen berry good. Hey? OBI-WAN What is it?
What!!?? Oie boie!
Iyiiyi, wesa die'n here, hey!
Come on...
Come on, Jar Jar. JAR JAR No! Too scary! OBI-WAN Get up here! JAR JAR No a mighty no!
Oie boie...mesa comen. Mesa comen!
That was close. BATTLE DROID 3B3 Drop your weapons!
Whoa!!!
...how will you explain this invasion to the Senate? NUTE The Naboo and the Federation will forge a treaty that will legitimize our occupation here. I've been assured it will be ratified by the Senate. AMIDALA I will not co-operate. NUTE Now, now, your Highness. You are not going to like what we have in store for your people. In time, their suffering will persuade you to see our point of view. Commander.  Process them. OOM-9 Yes, sir!  Take them to Camp Four.
and FOUR GUARDS are led out of the palace by ten BATTLE DROIDS. The plaza is filled with tanks and BATTLE DROIDS, which they pass on their way to the detention camp. Unbeknownst to them, QUI-GON, OBI-WAN, and JAR JAR sneak across on a walkway above the plaza and jump from a balcony to begin an attack to rescue the QUEEN.
Yousa guys bombad!
Your Highness, we are the Ambassadors, for the Supreme Chancellor. BIBBLE Your negotiations seem to have failed, Ambassador. QUI-GON The negotiations never took place. Your Highness, we must make contact with the republic.
They've knocked out all our communications. QUI-GON Do you have transports? CAPT. PANAKA In the main hanger. This way.
There are too many of them. QUI-GON That won't be a problem.  Your Highness, under the circumstances, Isuggest you come to Coruscant with us. AMIDALA Thank you, Ambassador, but my place is here with my people. QUI-GON They will kill you if you stay. BIBBLE They wouldn't dare. CAPT. PANAKA They need her to sign a treaty to make this invasion of theirs legal. They can't afford to kill her. QUI-GON The situation here is not what it seems. There is something else behind all this, Your Highness. There is no logic in the Federation's move here. My feelings tell me they will destroy you. BIBBLE Please, Your Highness, reconsider. Our only hope is for the Senate to side with us... Senator Palpatine will need your help. CAPT. PANAKA Getting past their blockade is impossible, Your Highness. Any attempt to escape will be dangerous. BIBBLE Your Highness, I will stay here and do what I can...They will have to retain the Council of Governors in order to maintain control. But you must leave...
Either choice presents a great risk...to all of us... PADME We are brave, Your Highness. QUI-GON If you are to leave, Your Highness, it must be now. AMIDALA Then, I will plead our case before the Senate.  Be careful, Governor.
by QUEEN AMIDALA, head for a sleek chrome spacecraft. SIO BIBBLE, YANE and SACHE stay behind. The HANDMAIDENS begin to cry.
We need to free those pilots.
I'll take care of that. OBI-WAN heads toward the group of captured pilots.
Where are you going? QUI-GON I'm Ambassador for the Supreme Chancellor, and I'm taking those people to Coruscant. DROID GUARD You're under arrest!
....our communications are still jammed.
Now stay here, and keep out of trouble.
Ello, boyos.  Disa wanna longo trip...hey?
Tis opens?...Oooops! Many springs and things come flying out.
Yoi! Just yoken! RIC OLIE Powers back! That little droid did it. He bypassed the main power drive. Deflector shield up, at maximum.
There's not enough power to get us to Coruscant...the hyperdrive is leaking. QUI-GON We'll have to land somewhere to refuel and repair the ship.
Here, Master. Tatooine... It's small, out of the way, poor... The Trade Federation has no presence there. CAPT. PANAKA How can you be sure? QUI-GON It's controlled by the Hutts... CAPT. PANAKA The Hutts?? OBI-WAN It's risky...but there's no alternative. CAPT. PANAKA You can't take Her Royal Highness there! The Hutts are gangsters... If they discovered her... QUI-GON ...It would be no different than if we landed on a system controlled by the Federation...except the Hutts aren't looking for her, which gives us an advantage.
We control all the cities in the North and are searching for any other settlements... DARTH SIDIOUS Destroy all high-ranking officials, Viceroy...slowly...quietly. And Queen Amidala, has she signed the treaty? NUTE She has disappeared, My Lord. One Naboo cruiser got pat the blockade. DARTH SIDIOUS Viceroy, find her! I want that treaty signed. NUTE My Lord, it's impossible to locate the ship. It's out of our range. DARTH SIDIOUS ...not for a Sith...
...Viceroy, this is my apprentice. Lord Maul. He will find your lost ship. NUTE Yes, My Lord. The hologram fades off. NUTE This is getting out of hand...now there are two of them. RUNE We should not have made this bargain. What will happen when the Jedi become aware of these Sith Lords?
...An extremely well put together little droid. Without a doubt, it saved the ship, as well as our lives. AMIDALA It is to be commended...what is its number?
R2-D2, Your Highness. AMIDALA Thank you, Artoo Detoo. You have proven to be very loyal...Padme!
Clean this droid up the best you can. It deserves our gratitude... Continue, Captain.
Yor Highness, we are heading for a remote planet called Tatooine. It is a system far beyond the reach of the Trade Federation. There we will be able to make needed repairs, then travel on to Coruscant. CAPTAIN PANAKA Your Highness, Tatooine is very dangerous. It's controlled by an alliance of gangs called the Hutts. I do not agree with the Jedi on this. QUI-GON You must trust my judgement, Your Highness.
Hidoe!
Sorry, nomeanen to scare yousa. PADME That's all right. JAR JAR I scovered oily back dare. Needen it? PADME Thank you. This little guy is quite a mess.
Mesa Ja Ja Binksss... PADME I'm Padme, I attend Her Highness, You're a Gungan, aren't you?  How did you end up here with us? JAR JAR Me no know...mesa day starten pitty okeyday witda brisky morning munchen. Den boom....getten berry skeered, un grabbed dat Jedi, and before mesa knowen it...pow! Mesa here. ...getten berry berry skeered.
Tahyt's it. Tatooine. RIC OLIE There's a settlement...a spaceport, looks like. QUI-GON Land near the outskirts. We don't want to attract any attention.
Obi-Wan, sire, pleeese, no mesa go! OBI-WAN Sorry, Qui-Gon's right. You'll make things less obvious.
The Hyperdrive generator is gone. We will need a new one.
Don't let them send ant transmissions. Be wary...I sense a disturbance in the Force. OBI-WAN I fell it also, Master.
Dis sun doen murder tada skin.
Wait!
Her Highness commands you to take her handmaiden with you. She wishes for her to observe the local... QUI-GON No more commands from Her Highness today, Captain. This spaceport is not going to be pleasant... CAPT. PANAKA The Queen wishes it. She is curious about this planet. PADME I've been trained in defense... I can take care of myself. CAPT. PANAKA Don't make me go back and tell her you refuse. QUI-GON I don't have time to argue. But this is not a good idea. Stay close to me.
...moisture farms for the most part, but also a few indigenous tribes and scavengers. The few spaceports like this one are havens for those who do not wish to be found... PADME ....like us. JAR JAR is in a constant state of panic.
Dissen berry berry bad. Ooooh...icky...icky...goo.
We'll try one of the smaller dealers.
 QUI-GON I need parts for a J-type 327 Nubian. WATTO Ah yes, ah yes. Nubian. We have lots of that. What kinda junk?  QUI-GON My droid here has a readout of what I need.
 ANAKIN Mel tassa cho-passa... (I was cleaning the bin like you...) WATTO Chut-Chut! Ganda doe wallya. (Never mind! Watch the store) Me dwana no bata. Soooo, let me take- a thee out back. Ni you'll find what you need.
Don't touch anything.
Are you an angel? PADME What? ANAKIN An angel. I've heard the deep space pilots talk about them. They live on the Moons of Iego I thimk. They are the most beautiful creatures in the universe. They are good and kind, and so pretty they make even the most hardened spice pirate cry.
You must be one...maybe you just don't know it. PADME You're a funny little boy. How do you know so much? ANAKIN Since I was very little, three, I think. My Mom and I were sold to Gardulla the Hutt, but she lost us, betting on the Podraces, to Watto, who's a lot better master than Gardulla, I think. PADME You're...a slave?
I am a person! My name is Anakin. PADME I'm sorry. I don't fully understand. This is a strange world to me.
You are a strange girl to me.
Hit the nose!
...Here it is...a T-14 hyperdrive generator!! Thee in luck, I'm the only one hereabouts who has one...but thee might as well buy a new ship. It would be cheaper, I think...Sying of which, how's thee going to pay for all this? QUI-GON I have 20,000 Republic dataries. WATTO Republic credits?!? Republic credits are no good out here. I need something more real... QUI-GON I don't have anything else.  But credits will do fine. WATTO No they won'ta. QUI-GON, using his mind power, waves his hand again. QUI-GON Credits will do fine. WATTO No, they won'ta. What you think you're some kinda Jedi, waving your hand around like that? I'm a Toydarian. Mind tricks don'ta work on me-only money. No money, no parts! No deal! And no one else has a T-14 hyperdrive, I promise you that.
...wouldn't have lasted long if I weren't so good at fixing things. I'm making my own droid...
JAR JAR follows QUI-GON. PADME gives ANAKIN a loving look.
I'm glad I met you,....ah... ANAKIN ...Anakin. PADME Anakin. ANAKIN Anakin Skywalker. PADME Padme Naberrie.
I'm glad I met you too.
Ootmians! Tinka me chasa hopoe ma booty na nolia. (Outlanders! They think because we live so far from the center, we don't know nothing.) ANAKIN WATTO
...Obi-Wan, you're sure there isn't anything of value left on board? OBI-WAN A few containers of supplies, the Queen's wardrobe, maybe. Not enough for you to barter with. Not in the ammounts you're talking about. QUI-GON All right. Another solution will present itself. I'll check back.
Noah gain...da beings hereabouts cawazy. Wesa be robbed un crunched. QUI-GON Not likely. We have nothing of value, that's our problem.
Hey, that will be seven truguts!!
JAR JAR Who, mesa?? SEBULBA
Why mesa always da one?? ANAKIN Because you're afraid.
Chess ko, Sebulba...Coo wolpa tooney rana. (Careful, Sebulba...This one's very connected.)
Tooney rana nu pratta dunko, shag. (Connected?? Whada you mean, slave?) ANAKIN Oh da Hutt...cha porko ootman geesa...me teesa rodda co pana pee choppa chawa. (As in Hutt...big time outlander, this one... I'd hate to see you diced before we race again.) SEBULBA Neek me chowa, wermo, mo killee ma klounkee(Next time we race, wermo, it will be the end of you!) Una noto wo shag, me wompity du pom pom.
Eh, chee bana do mullee ra. (Yeah, it'd be a pity if you had to pay for me.)
Hi! Your buddy here was about to be turned into orange goo. He picked a fight with a Dug. An especially dangerous Dug called Sebulba. JAR JAR Nosir, nosir. Mesa hate crunchen. Dat's da last ting mesa wanten. QUI-GON Nevertheless, the boy is right...you were heading for trouble. Thank you, my young friend.
Mesa doen nutten! ANAKIN Fear attracts the fearful. He was trying to overcome his fear by squashing you...be less afraid. PADME And that works for you. ANAKIN To a point.
This storm's going to slow them down. CAPT. PANAKA It looks pretty bad. We'd better seal the ship.
Yes? CAPT. PANAKA We'll be right there.
How are you feeling today, Jira? JIRA The heat's never been kind to me, you know, Annie! ANAKIN Guess what? I've found that cooling unit I've been searching for. It's pretty beat up, but I'll have it fixed up for you in no time, I promise. JIRA You're a fine boy, Annie. ANAKIN I'll take four pallies today.  You'll like these...
Whoops, I thought I had more...Make thgat three, I'm not hungry.
Gracious, my bones are aching...storm's coming on, Annie. You'd better get home quick. ANAKIN Do you have shelter? QUI-GON We'll hed back to our ship. ANAKIN Is it far? PADME On the outskirts. ANAKIN You'll never reach the outskirts in time...sandstorms are very, very dangerous. Come with me. Hurry!
Mom! Mom! I'm home. JAR JAR Dissen cozy.
Oh, my!! Annie, what's this? ANAKIN These are my friends, Mom. This is Padme, and...gee, I don't know any of your names. QUI-GON I'm Qui-Gon Jinn, and this is Jar Jar Binks. ARTOO lets out a little beep. PADME ...and our droid, Artoo-Detoo. ANAKIN I'm building a droid. You wanna see? SHMI Anakin! Why are they here? ANAKIN A sandstorm, Mom. Listen.
Your son was kind enough to offer us shelter. ANAKIN Come on! Let me show you Threepio!
I have enough food for a meal. SHMI Oh, tank you. Thank you so much. I'm sorry if I was abrupt. I'll never get used to Anakin's surprises. QUI-GON He's a very special boy. SHMI looks at him as if he's discovered a secret. SHMI Yes, I know.
Isn't he great?! He's not finished yet. PADME He's wonderful! ANAKIN You reall like him? He's a protocol droid...to help Mom. Watch!
How do you do, I am See-Threepio, Human Cyborg Relations. How might I serve you? PADME He's perfect. ANAKIN When the storm is over, you can see my racer. I'm building a Podracer!
I beg your pardon....what do you mean I'm naked?
My parts are showing? Oh, my goodness. How embarrassing!
...cut off all food supplies until you return...the death toll is catastrophic...we must bow to their wishes, Your Highness...Please tell us what to do! If you can hear us, Your Highness, you must contact me...
It's a trick. Send no reply... Send no transmission of any kind.
...the Queen is upset...but absolutly no reply was sent. QUI-GON It sounds like bait to establish a connection trace. OBI-WAN What if it is true and the people are dying? QUI-GON Either way, we're running out of time.
Tatooine is sparsely populated. If the trace was correct, I will find them quickly, Master. DARTH SIDIOUS Move against the Jedi first...you will then have no difficulty taking the Queen back to Naboo, where she will sign the treaty. DARTH MAUL At last we will reveal ourselves to the Jedi. At last we will have revenge. DARTH SIDIOUS You have been well trained, my young apprentice, they will be no match for you. It is too late for them to stop us now. Everything is going as planned. The Republic will soon be in my command.
All slaves have transmitters placed inside their bodies somewhere. ANAKIN I've been working on a scanner to try and locate them, but no luck. SHMI Any attempt to escape... ANAKIN ...and they blow you up...poof!
How wude. PADME I can't believe there is still slavery in the galaxy. The Republic's anti-slavery laws... SHMI The Republic doesn't exist out here...we must survive on our own.
Have you ever seen a Podrace?
They have Podracing on Malastare. Very fast, very dangerous. ANAKIN I'm the only human who can do it.
Mom, what? I'm not bragging. It's true. Watto says he's never heard of a human doing it. QUI-GON You must have Jedi reflexes if you race Pods.
Don't do that again.
I...I was wondering...something... QUI-GON What? ANAKIN Well, ahhh...you're a Jedi Knight, aren't you? QUI-GON What makes you think that? ANAKIN I saw your laser sword. Only Jedi carry that kind of weapon.
Perhaps I killed a Jedi and stole it from him. ANAKIN I don't think so... No one can kill a Jedi Knight. QUI-GON I wish that were so... ANAKIN. I had a dream I was a Jedi. I came back here and freed all the slaves...have you come to free us? QUI-GON No, I'm afraid not... ANAKIN I think you have...why else would you be here?
I can see there's no fooling you... You mustn't let anyone know about us...we're on our way to Coruscant, the central system in the Republic, on a very important mission, and it must be kept secret. ANAKIN Coruscant...wow...how did you end up here in the outer rim? PADME Our ship was damaged, and we're stranded here until we can repair it. ANAKIN I can help! I can fix anything! QUI-GON I believe you can, but our first job is to aquire the parts we need... JAR JAR Wit no-nutten mula to trade. PADME These junk dealers must have a weakness of some kind. SHMI Gambling. Everything here revolves around betting on those awful races. QUI-GON Podracing... Greed can be a powerful ally.. if it's used properly. ANAKIN I've built a racer! It's the fastest ever...There's a big race tomorrow, on Boonta Eve. You could enter my pod. It's all but finished... SHMI Anakin, settle down. Watto won't let you... ANAKIN Watto doesn't know I've built it.  You could make him think it's your's, and you could get him to let me pilot it for you.
I don't want you to race, Annie...It's awful. I die every time Watto makes you do it.
But Mom, I love it...and they need help...they're in trouble. The prize money would more than pay for the parts they need. JAR JAR Wesa ina pitty bad goo. GUI-GON Your mother's right. Is there anyone friendly to the Republic who might be able to help us?
We have to help them, Mom...you said that the biggest problem in the universe is no one helps each other... SHMI Anakin, don't...
I'm sure Qui-Gon doesn't want to put your son in danger. We will find another way... SHMI No, Annie's right, there is no other way... I may not like it, but he can help you...he was meant to help you. ANAKIN Is that a yes? That is a yes!
Are you sure about this? Trusting our fate to a boy we hardly know. The Queen will not approve. QUI-GON The Queen does not need to know. PADME Well, I don't approve.
Patta go bolla! ANKAIN No batta! WATTO Pedunky. Maa kee cheelya. ANAKIN Bayno, Bayno!
The boy tells me you wanta sponser hi insa race. You can't afford parts. How can you do this? Not on Republic credits, I think. QUI-GON My ship will be the entry fee.
Not bad...not bad...a Nubian. QUI-GON It's in good order, except for the parts we need. WATTO ...but what would the boy ride? He smashed up my Pod in the last race. It will take some time to fix it.
Ahhhh....it wasn't my fault really...Sebulba flashed me with his vent ports. I actually saved the Pod...mostly. WATTO That you did. The boy is good, no doubts there. QUI-GON I have...acquired a Pod in a game of chance. "The fastest ever built." WATTO I hope you didn't kill anyone I know for it.  So, you supply the Pod and the entry fee; I supply the boy. We split the winnings fifty-fifty, I think. QUI-GON Fifty-fifty!?! If it's going to be fifty-fifty, I suggest you front the cash for the entry. If we win, you keep all the winnings, minus the cost of the parts I need...If we lose, you keep my ship.
Either way, you win. WATTO Deal! Yo bana pee ho-tah, meedee ya. (Your friend is a follish one, methinks.)
What if this plan fails, Master? We could be stuck here for a long time. QUI-GON A ship without a power supply will not get us anywhere, and there is something about this boy...
You should be proud of your son. He gives without any thought of reward. SHMI He knows nothing of greed. He has... QUI-GON He has special powers. SHMI Yes... QUI-GON He can see things before they happen. That's why he appears to have such quick reflexes. It is a Jedi trait. SHMI He deserves better than a slave's life. QUI-GON The Force is unusally strong with him, that much is clear. Who was his father? SHMI There was no father, that I know of...I carried him, I gave him birth...I can't explain what happened. Can you help him? QUI-GON I'm afraid not. Had he been born in the Republic, we would have identified him early, and he would have become Jedi, no doubt...he has the way. But it's too late for him now, he's too old.
Padme and Jar Jar, this is my friend Kitster, and seek, Amee, and Wald.
Wow, a real Astro Droid...how'd you get so lucky? ANAKIN This isn't the half of it. I'm entered in the Boonta Race tomorrow! KITSTER What? With this?? WALD  AMEE You've been working on that thing for years. It's never going to run. SEEK Come on, let's go play ball. Keep it up, Annie, and you're gonna be bug squash.
Hey! Jar Jar! Stay away from those energy binders... JAR JAR Who, mesa? ANAKIN If your hand gets caught in that beam, it will go numb for hours.
Ouch-dats muy bigo Oucho. KITSTER But you don't even know if this thing will run. ANAKIN It will.
I think it's time we found out. Use this power charge. ANAKIN
Sit still, Annie. Let me clean this cut. ANAKIN There are so many! Do they all have a system of planets? QUI-GON Most of them. ANAKIN Has anyone been to them all? QU-IG0N Not likely. ANAKIN I want to be the first one to see them all... Ouch!
There, good as new...
Annie, bedtime!
What are you doing? QUI-GON Checking your blood for infections. ANAKIN I've never seen... SHMI Annie! I'm not goiung to tell you again! QUI-GON Go on, you have a big day tomorrow.  Goodnight.
Obi-Wan... OBI-WAN Yes, Master. QUI-GON Make an analysis of this blood sample I'm sending you. OBI-WAN Wait a minute... QUI-GON I need a midi-chlorian count. OBI-WAN All right. I've got it. QUI-GON What are your readings? OBI-WAN Something must be wrong with the transmission. QUI-GON Here's a signal check. OBI-WAN Strange. The transmission seems to be in good order, but the reading's off the chart...over twenty thousand. QUI-GON That's it then. OBI-WAN Even Master Yoda doesn't have a midi-chlorian count that high! QUI-GON No Jedi has. OBI-WAN What does it mean? QUI-GON I'm not sure.
I hope you're about finished.
You were in my dream...you were leading a huge army into battle. PADME I hope not; I hate fighting. Your mother wants you to come in and clean up. We have to leave soon. ANAKIN stands up and stretches just as KITSTER arrives.
Hook 'em up, Kitster.  I won't be long. Where's Qui-Gon?
He and Jar Jar left already. They're with Watto at the arena.
...I want to see your spaceship the moment the race is over. QUI-GON Patienc, my blue friend. You'll have your winnings before the suns set, and we'll be far away from here. WATTO Not if your ship belongs to me, I think...I warn you, no funny business. QUI-GON You don't think Anakin will win?
Don't get me wrongo. I have great faith in the boy. He's a credit to your race, but Sebulba there is going to win, I think. QUI-GON Why? WATTO He always wins.  I'm betting heavily on Sebulba. QUI-GON I'll take that bet. WATTO What??!! What do you mean? QUI-GON I'll wager my new racing pod against...say...the boy and his mother. WATTO A Pod for slaves. I don't think so...well, poerhaps. Just one...the mother, maybe...the boy isn't for sale. QUI-GON The boy is small, he can't be worth much.
For the fastest Pod ever built?!
Both, or no bet. WATTO No Pod's worth two slaves...not by a long shot...one slave or nothing. QUI-GON The boy, then...
We'll let fate decide. Blue it's the boy, red his mother...
You won the small toss, outlander, bou you won't win the race, so...it makes little difference.
Bonapa keesa pateeso, o wanna meetee chobodd. 
What did he mean by that?
I'll tell you later.
Oh my! Space travel sounds rather perilous.
I can assure you they will never get me onto one of those dreadful starships! KITSTER This is so wizard! I'm sure you'll do it this time, Annie. PADME Do what? KITSTER Finish the race, of course! PADME You've never won a race? ANAKIN Well...not exactly... PADME Not even finished?!
...but Kitster's right, I will this time. QUI-GON Of course you will.
Toogi! Toogie!  Toong mee cha kulkah du Boonta magi! tah oos azalus ooval Poddraces. (We have perfect weather today for the Boonta classic. The most hazardous of all Podraces.) That's absolutly right. And a big turnout here, from all corners of the Outer Rim territories. I see the contestants are making their way out onto the starting grid.
A La Yma beestoo I see Ben Quadinaros from the Tund system. ...eh Gasgano doowa newpa Ord Petrovia! (And Gasgano in thenew Ord Pedrovia.) Two time winner, Boles Roor... Poo tula moosta, woe grane champio Sebulba du Pixelito! Splastyleeya bookie ookie!! (On the front line the reigning champion, Sebulba from Pixelito. By far the favorite today.) And a late entry, Anakin Skywalker, a local boy. Wampa peedunkee unko I see the flaggers are moving onto the track.
O grandio lust, Jabba Du Hutt, amu intoe tah parena. (His honor, our glorious host, Jabba the Hutt has entered the arena.)
Chowbaso! Tam ka chee Boonta rulee ya, kee madda hodrudda du wundee.  Sebulba tuta Pixelito...
Be safe. ANAKIN I will, Mom. I promise.
...Mawhonic tuta Hok, Teemto Pagalies tuta Moonus Mandel, Anakin SKywalker tuta Tatoonine....
Dis berry loony, Annie. May da guds be kind, mesa palo.
You carry all our hopes. ANAKIN I won't let you down.
Bazda wahota, shag. Dobiella Nok. Yoka to Bantha poodoo. 9You won't walk away from this one, slave scum! You're Bantha poodoo.) ANAKIN Cha skrundee da pat, sleemo. (Don't count on it, slime-ball.)
...Ka bazza kundee hodrudda! (...Let the challenge begin!)
Are you all set, Annie?  Remember, concentrate on the moment. Feel. Don't think. Trust your instincts.  May the Force be with you.
Mesa no watch. Dissen ganna be messy! FODE/BEED Ya pawa culka doe rundee! Hey, it looks like they're clearing the grid.
Is he nervous? QUI-GON He's fine. PADME You Jedi are far too reckless. The Queen... QUI-GON The Queen trusts my judgment, young handmaiden. You should too. PADME You assume too much.
Start your engines.
- An dare ovv! Oh...wait. Little Skywalker has stalled.
- And there goes Skywalker... He'll be hard pressed to catch up with the leaders today.
Looks like a few Tusken Riaders have campe out on the canyon dune turn.
Where's Skywalker?
The quadra-Pod engines start just as the racers come around the corner. The DRIVER, BEN QUADINAROS, puts it in gear, and the four engines go off in all directions, EXPLODING in a spectacular display. The Pod drops to the ground as SEBULBA enters the arena, closely followed by all the OTHER RACERS. KITSTER strains to see as ARTOO beeps excitedly. The announcer continues.
- B ; There goes Quadinaros' power couplings. Sebulba! Ka pa me cheespa wata!
FANTA Bug off.
He musta crash-ud. PADME Here he comes!
He has to complete two more circuits? Oh dear!
- It looks like Skywalker is moving up through the field. He's in... Steeth pa nagoola!
ODY stops in the pits. Droids work on his engines. DUM-4 stands in front of the engine and is sucked in, causing the engine to die. DUM-4 is spit out the back of the engine, very bent up. The engine lets out one final wheeze, then EXPLODES in a puff of smoke.
- Ody Mandrell! Coona wa wunda dunko! (Ody Mandrell into the pits for some attention.) ODY Droids!
- At the start of the third and final lap, Sebulba is in the lead, closely followed by Skywalker...
- Skywalker is forced onto the service ramp! Oh noah!
- Amazing... a controlled thrust and he's back on course! What a move!
- He's catching Sebulba. Inkabunga.
- That little human being is out of his mind. Punda tah punda! They're side by side! Bongo du bongu!
The release of tension sends SEBULBA into an ancient statue. One engine EXPLODES, then the other. SEBULBA skids through the fire-balls, blackened, but unhurt. He slides to a smoking stop, gets out of his racer, and throws what's left of a shifter arm on the ground. Suddenly he realizes his pants are on fire, and he struggles to put them out. ANAKIN flies through the EXPLOSION as the crowd stands, CHERRING. PADME and JAR JAR jump up and down with excitment, PADME screaming for joy. ARTOO and KITSTER whistle hysterically. QUI-GON and SHMI smile. ANAKIN races over the finish line, the winner.
It's Skywalker! The crowd are going nuts! Oh Ah Oh Ah (rock head in tandem with partner)
You! You swindled me! You knew the boy was going to win! Somehow you knew it! I lost everything.
Whenever you gamble, my freind, eventually you'll lose. Bring the parts to the main hanger. I'll come by your shop later so you can release the boy. WATTO You can't have him! It wasn't a fair bet! QUI-GON Would you like to discuss it with the Hutts...I'm sure they can settle this. WATTO No, no! I want no more of your tricks! Take him!
Ah, gee...enough of this... SHMI It's so wonderful, Annie. You have brought hope to those who have none. I'm so very proud of you... PADME We owe you everything. ANAKIN Just feeling this good was worth it.
Padme. Jar Jar, let's go, we've got to get these parts back to the ship.
I'll return the eopies by midday.
Start getting this hyperdrive generator installed. I'm going back...some unfinished business. I won't be long. OBI-WAN Why do I sense we've picked up another pathetic life form...? QUI-GON It's the boy who's responsible for getting those parts.
What's this? ANAKIN He said I cheated. QUI-GON Did you? ANAKIN No! QUI-GON Do you still think he cheated? GREEDO Yes. QUI-GON Well, Annie. You know the truth... You will have to tolerate his opinion, fighting won't change it.
Keep this up, Greedo, and you're gonna come to a bad end.
These are yours. We sold the Pod. ANAKIN Yes!
Mom, he sold the Pod. Look at all the money we have!
Oh, my goodness, That's wonderful. QUI-GON And Anakin has been freed. ANAKIN What?!? QUI-GON You're no longer a slave.
Did you hear that, Mom?  Was that part of the prize, or what? QUI-GON Let's just say Watto has learned an important lesson about gambling. SHMI Now you can make your dreams come true, Annie. You're free! (turns to Qui-Gon) Will you take him with you? Is he to become a Jedi? QUI-GON Our meeting was not a coincidence. Nothing happens by accident. You are strong with the Force, but you may not be accepted by the Coucil. ANAKIN A Jedi! Mighty blasters, you mean I get to go with you in your starship and everything?!
Anakin, training to be a Jedi will not be a easy challenge. And if you succeed, it will be a hard life. ANAKIN But it's what I want. What I've always dreamed about. Can I go, Mom?! QUI-GON This path has been placed for you, Annie; the choice to take it is yours alone.
I want to go. QUI-GON Then, pack your things. We haven't much time. ANAKIN Yipee!!
What about Mom? Is she free too? You're coming, aren't you, Mom QUI-GON I tried to free your mother, Annie, but Watto wouldn't have it. ANAKIN But the money from selling... QUI-GON It's not nearly enough.
Son, my place is here. My future is here. It is time for you to let go...to let go of me. I cannot go with you. ANAKIN I want to stay with you. I don't want things to change. SHMI You can't stop change any more than you can stop the suns from setting. Listen to your feelings; Annie, you know what's right.
I'm going to miss you so much, Mom... SHMI I love you, Annie...now hurry.
Thank you. QUI-GON I will watch after him. You have my word. Will you be all right? SHMI He was in my life for such a short time.
Well, Threepio, I'm free...and I'm going away...in a starship... THREEPIO Master, Annie, you are my maker, and I wish you well. Although I'd like it better if I were a little less naked. ANAKIN I'm sorry I wasn't able to finish you, Threepio...give you coverings and all... I'm going to miss working on you. You've been a great pal. I'll make sure Mom doesn't sell you or anything. Bye.
Sell me?!?
There are so many of us who want you to stay, Annie... You're a hero. ANAKIN I...  I... have to go.
Well. ANAKIN Well. KITSTER Thank's for every moment you've been here. You're my best friend. ANAKIN I won't forget.
I can't do it, Mom. I just can't.
Annie, remember when you climbed the great dune in order to chase the Banthas away so they wouldn't be shot... Remember how you collapses several times, exhausted thinking you couldn't do it?
This is one of those times when you have to do something you don't think you can do. I know how strong you are, Annie. I know you can do this... ANAKIN Will I ever see you again? SHMI What does your heart tell you? ANAKIN I hope so...yes...I guess. SHMI Then we will see each other again. ANAKIN I.. will become a Jedi and I will come back and free you, Mom...I promise. SHMI No matter where you are, my love will be with you. Now be brave, and don't look back... don't look back. ANAKIN I love you so much.
I've been freed, and I'm going away. Buy yourself a cooling unit with this... Otherwise I'll worry about you.
Can I give you a hug ANAKIN Sure.
I'll miss you, Annie.. there isn't a kinder boy in the galaxy. You be careful...
Suddenly, without breaking his stride, he ignites his laser sword, swing around, and lunges forward and cuts a lurking PROBE DROID in half. QUI-GON inspects the sparking and fizzing DROID.
What is it? QUI-GON Probe droid. Very unusual... not like anything I've seen before. Come on.
Master Qui-Gon,sir, wait!
Anakin, drop!
ANAKIN picks himself up. The two galactic warriors, Sith and Jedi, are bashing each other with incredible blows. They move in a continual cloudof dust, smashing everything around them. This is a fierce fight. ANAKIN gets up, bewildered by the confrontation.
Annie, get to the ship! Take off! Go! Go!
Qui-Gon's in trouble. He says to take off...now!! CAPT. PANAKA Who are you? PADME He's a friend.
Qui-Gon is in trouble, he says to take off! PILOT I don't see anything. OBI-WAN Over there! Fly low!
Before DARTH MAUL knows what's happening, QUI-GON is on the spacecrat's ramp.
Are you all right? QUI-GON I think so... that was a surpirse I wont soon forget. OBI-WAN What was it? QUI-GON I don't know... but he was well trained in the Jedi arts. My guess is he was after the Queen... ANAKIN Do you think he'll follow us? QUI-GON We'll be safe enough once we're in hyperspace, but I have no doubt he knows our destination. ANAKIN What are we going to do about it?
We will be patient. Anakin Skywalker, meet Obi-Wan Kenobi. ANAKIN Pleased to meet you. Wow! You're a Jedi too?
Let's hope this hyperdrive works and Watto didn't get the last laugh.
When are you going to give up this pointless strike? Your Queen is lost, your people are starving, and you, Governor, are going to die, much sooner than your people, I'm afraid. Take him away! BIBBLE This invasion will gain you nothing. We're a democracy. The people have decided... They will not live under your tyranny.
My troops are in position to begin searching the swamps for these rumored underwater villages... they will not stay hidden for long.
PADME appears tired. She senses someone watching her and turns around with a start. She sees ANAKIN sitting in the corner, shivering and looking verydejected. She goes over to him. He looks up at her with tears in his eyes. He is holding his arms to keep himself warm.
Are you all right? ANAKIN It's very cold.
You're from a warm planet, Annie. Too warm for my taste. Space is cold. ANAKIN You seem sad. PADME The Queen is...worried. Her people are suffering...dying. She must convince the Senate to intervene, or...I'm not sure what will happen. ANAKIN I'm...I'm not sure what's going to happen to me. I dunno if I'll ever see you again..  I made this for you. Sou you'd remember me. I carved it out of a japor snippet... It will bring you good fortune.
It's beautiful, but I don't need this to remember you. Many things will change when we reach the capital, Annie. My caring for you will always remain. ANAKIN I care for you too. Only I...miss...
...You miss your mother.
Coruscant...the capital of the Republic...the entire planet is one big city. ANAKIN Wow! It's so huge!
It is a great gift to see you alive, Your Majesty. May I present Supreme Chancellor Valorum. VALORUM Welcome, Your Highness. It is an honor to finally meet you in person. I must relay to you how distressed everyone is over the currant situation. I've called for a special session of the Senate to hear your position. AMIDALA I am grateful for your concern, Chancellor.
There is a question of precedure, but I feel confident we can overcome it...
Da Queens- a bein grossly nice, mesa tinks. Pitty hot!
I must speak with the Jei Council immediately, Your Honor. The situation has become more complicated.
Dissen all pitty odd to my. ANAKIN Don't look at me. I don't know what's going on.
...the Republic is not what it once was. The Senate is full of greedy, squabbling delegates who are only looking out for themselves and their home sytems. There is no interest in the common good...no civility, only politics...its disgusting. I must be frank, Your Majesty, there is little chance the Senate will act on the invasion. AMIDALA Chancellor Valorum seems to think there is hope. PALPATINE If I may say so, Your Majesty, the Chancellor has little real power...he is mired down by baseless accusations of corruption. A manufactured scandal surrounds him. The bureaucrats are in charge now. AMIDALA What options do we have? PALPATINE Our best choice would be to push for the election of a stronger Supreme Chancellor. One who will take control of the bureaucrats, enforces the laws, and give us justice. You could call for a vote of no confidence in Chancellor Valorum. AMIDALA He has been our strongest supporter. Is there any other way? PALPATINE Our only other choice would to be to submit a plea to the courts... AMIDALA There's no time for that. The courts take even longer to decide things than the Senate. Our people are dying, Senator...more and more each day. We must do something quickly to stop the Federation. PALPATINE To be realistic, Your Highness, I'd say we're going to have to accept Federation control for the time being. AMIDALA There is something I cannot do.
...my only conclusion can be that it was a Sith Lord. MACE WINDU A Sith Lord?!? KI-ADI Impossible! The Sith have been extinct for a millenium. YODA The very Republic is threatened, if involved the Sith are. MACE WINDU I do not believe they could have returned without us knowing. YODA Hard to see, the dark side is. Discover who this assassin is, we must. KI-ADI I sense he will reveal himself again. MACE WINDU This attack was with purpose, that is clear, and I agree the Queen is the target. YODA With this Naboo queen you must stay, Qui-Gon. Protect her. MACE WINDU We will use all our resources here to unravel this mystery and discover the identity of your attacker... May the Force be with you. YODA May the Force be with you.
Master Qui-Gon more to say have you? QUI-GON With your permission, my Master. I have encountered a vergence in the Force. YODA A vergence, you say? MACE WINDU Located around a person? QUI-GON A boy... his cells have the highest concentration of midi-chlorians I have seen in a life form. It is possible he was conceived by the midi-chlorians. MACE WINDU You're referring to the prophesy of the one who will bring balance to the Force...you believe it's this boy?? QUI-GON I don't pressume... YODA But you do! Rrevealed your opinion is. QUI-GON I request the boy be tested.
Trained as a Jedi, you request for him? QUI-GON Finding him was the will of the Force...I have no doubt of that. There is too much happening here... MACE WINDU Bring him before us, then. YODA Tested he will be.
May I help you, son? ANAKIN I'm...I'm looking for the handmaiden, Padme.
The boy is here to see Padme. RABE Send him in.
I'd like to speak with Padme, if I could. RABE I'm sorry, Annie. Padme is not here right now.
Who is it? RABE Anakin Skywalker, to see Padme, Your Highness.
I've sent Padme on an errand. ANAKIN I'm going to the Jedi temple to start my training, I hope.
I may not see her again...and... I just wanted to say goodbye. AMIDALA We will tell her for you. We're sure her heart goes with you.
Thank you, Your Highness. I'm sorry to have disturbed you.
If the Federation moves to defer the motion...Your Majesty, Ibeg of you to ask for a resolution to end this congressional session. AMIDALA I wish I had your confidence in this, Senator. PALPATINE You must force a new election for Supreme Chancellor...I promise you there are many who will support us...it is our best chance... Your Majesty, our only, chance. AMIDALA You truely believe Chancellor Valorum will not bring our motion to a vote? PALAPATINE He is distracted...he is afraid. He will be of no help. VALORUM The Chair recognizes the Senator from the sovereign system of Naboo.
Supreme Chancellor, delegates of the Senate. A tragedy has occured on our peaceful system of Naboo. We have become caugt in a dispute you're all well aware of, which began right here with the taxation of trade routes, and has now engulfed our entire planet in the oppresion of the Trade Federation.
This is outrageous! I object to the Senator's statements! VALORUM The Chair does not recognize the Senator from the Trade Federation at this time. Please return to your station.
To state our allegations, I present Queen Amidala, the recently elected ruler of Naboo, to speak on our behalf.
Honorable representatives of the Republic, distinguished delegates, and Your Honor Supreme Chancellor Valorum, I come to you under the gravest of circumstances. The Naboo system has been invaded by force. Invaded...against all the laws of the Republic by the Droid Armies of the Trade... LOTT DOD I object! There is no proof. This is incredible. We recommend a commision be sent to Naboo to assertain the truth. VALORUM Overruled. LOTT DOD Your Honor, you cannot allow us to be condemned without reasonable observation. It's against all the rules of procedure.
The Congress of Malastare concurs with the honorable delegate from the Trade Federation. A commision must be appointed...that is the law. VALORUM The point...
Enter the bureaucrats, the true rulers of the Republic, and on the payroll of the Trade Federation, I might add. This is where Chancellor Valorum's strength will dissapear. VALORUM The point is conceded...Section 523A take precedence here. Queen Amidala of the Naboo, will you defer your motion to allow a commission to explore the validity of your accusations?
I will not defer...I have come before you to resolve this attack on our sovereignty now. I was not elected to watch my people suffer and die while you discuss this invasion in a committee. If this body is not capable of action, I suggest new leadership is needed. I move for a "vote of no confidence"...in Chancellor Valorum's leadership. VALORUM What?...No!
Order! We shall have order...
Alderaan seconds the motion for a vote of no confidence in Chancellor Valorum. MAD AMEDDA The motion has been seconded by Bail Organa of Alderaan.
There must be no delays. The motion is on the floor and must be voted upon in this session. LOTT DOD The Trade Federation moves the motion be sent to the procedures committee for study.
Vote now! Vote now! Vote now!
You see, Your Majaesty, the tide is with us...Valorum will be voted out, I assure you, and they will elect in a new Chancellor, a strong Chancellor, one who will not let our tragedy continue... MAS AMEDDA Thew Supreme Chancellor requests a recess. Tomorrow we will begin the vote.
Palpatine, I thought you were my ally...my friend. You have betrayed me! How could you do this?
The boy will not pass the Council's tests, Master, and you know it. He is far too old. QUI-GON Anakin will become A Jedi...I promise you. OBI-WAN Don't defy the Council, Master..not again. QUI-GON I will do what I must. OBI-WAN Master, you could be sitting on the Council by now if you would just follow the code. They will not go along with you this time. QUI-GON You still have much to learn, my young apprentice.
A ship...a cup...a speeder.
Good, good, young one. How feel you? ANAKIN Cold, sir. YODA Afraid are you? ANAKIN No, sir. MACE WINDU Afraid to give up your life? ANAKIN I don't think so.
See through you, we can. MACE WINDU Be mindful of your feelings... KI-ADI YOur thoughts dwell on your mother. ANAKIN I miss her. YODA Afraid to lose her..I think. ANAKIN What's that got to do with anything? YODA Eveything. Fear is the path to the dark side... fear leads to anger... anger leads to hate.. hate leads to suffering. ANAKIN I am not afraid! YODA A Jedi must have the deepest commitment, the most serious mind. I sense much fear in you. ANAKIN I am not afraid. YODA Then continue, we will.
Mesa wonder why da guds invent pain? AMIDALA To motivate us, I imagine... JAR JAR Yousa tinken yousa people ganna die? AMIDALA I don't know. JAR JAR Gungans ganna get pasted too, eh? AMIDALA I hope not. JAR JAR Gungans do die'n without a fight.... wesa warriors. Wesa gotta grand army. Dat why you no liken us, metinks.
Your Highness, Senator Palpatine has been nominated to succeed Valorum as Supreme Chancellor. PALPATINE A surprise, to be sure, but a welcome one. I promise, Your Majesty, if I am elected, I will bring democracy back to the Republic. I will put an end to corruption. The Trade Fedreation will lose its influence over the bureaucrats, and our people will be freed. AMIDALA Who else can be nominated? CAPT. PANAKA Bail Antilles of Alderaan and Ainlee Teem of Malastare. PALPATINE I feel confident...our "situation" will create a strong sympaphy vote for us... I will be Chancellor, I promise you. AMIDALA I fear by the time you have control of the bureaucrats, Senator, there will be nothing left of our cities, our people, our way of life... PALPATINE I understand your concern, Your Majesty; unfortunately, the Federation has possession of our planet. The law is in their favor. AMIDALA With the Senate in transition, there is nothing more I can do here...Senator, this is your arena. I feel I must return to mine. I have decided to go back to Naboo. My place is with my people. PALPATINE Go back!! But, Your Majesty, be realistic! You would be in danger. They will force you to sign the treaty. AMIDALA I will sign no treaty, Senator. My fate will be no different from that of our people. Captain! CAPT. PANAKA Yes, Your Highness? AMIDALA Ready my ship! CAPT. PANAKA Please, Your Majesty, stay here...where it's safe. AMIDALA No place is safe, if the Senate doesn't condemn this invasion. It is clear to me now that the Republic no longer functions as a democracy. If you win the election, Senator, I know you will do everything possible to stop the Federation. I pray you will bring sanity and compassion back to the Senate.
...Correct you were, Qui-Gon. MACE WINDU His cells contain a high concentration of midi-chlorians. KI-ADI The Force is strong with him. QUI-GON He's to be trained, then.
No. He will not be trained.
No??!!
He is too old. There is already too much anger in him. QUI-GON He is the chosen one...you must see it. YODA Clouded, this boy's future is. Masked by his youth. QUI-GON I will trin him, then. I take Anakin as my Padawan learner.
An apprentice, you have, Qui-Gon. Impossible, to take on a second. MACE WINDU We forbid it. QUI-GON Obi-Wan is ready... OBI-WAN Iam ready to face the trials. YODA Ready so early, are you? What know you of ready?
Headstrong....and he has much to learn about the living Force, but he is capabe. There is little more he will learn from me. YODA Our own council we will keep on who is ready. More to learn, he has... MACE WINDU Now is not the time for this...the Senate is voting for a new Spreme Chancellor. Queen Amidala is returning home, which will put pressure on the Federation, and could widen the confrontation. YODA And draw out the Queen's attacker. KI-ADI Events are moving fast...too fast. MACE WINDU Go with the Queen to Naboo and discover the identity of the dark warrior. That is the clue we need to unravel this mystery of the Sith.
Young Skywalker's fate will be decided later. QUI-GON I brought Anakin here; he must stay in my charge. He has nowhere else to go. MACE WINDU He is your ward, Qui-Gon...we will not dispute that. YODA Train him not. Take him with you, but train him not! MACE WINDU Protect the Queen, but do not intercede if it comes to war until we have the Senate's approval. YODA May the Force be with you.
It is not disrespect, Master, it is the truth. QUI-GON From your point of view.... OBI-WAN The boy is dangerous...they all sense it. Why can't you? QUI-GON His fate is uncertain, not dangerous. The Council will decide Anakin's future...that should be enough for you. Now get on board! OBI-WAN reluctantly boards the Naboo spacecraft followed by ARTOO. QUI-GON goes over to ANAKIN. ANAKIN Master Qui-Gon, sir, I do not wish to be a problem. QUI-GON You won't be, Annie....I'm not allowed to train you, so I want you to watch me and be mindful...always remember, your focus determines your reality. Stay close to me and you will be safe. ANAKIN Master, sir...I've been wondering...what are midi-chlorians? QUI-GON Midi-chlorians are a microcopic lifeform that reside within all living cells and communicates with the Force. ANAKIN They live inside of me? QUI-GON In your cells. We are symbionts with the midi-chlorians. ANAKIN Symbionts? QUI-GON Life forms living together for mutual advantage. Without the midi-chlorians, life could not exist, and we would have no knowledge of the Force. They continually speak to you, telling you the will of the Force. ANAKIN They do?? QUI-GON When you learn to quiet your mind, you will hear them speaking to you. ANAKIN I don't understand. QUI-GON With time and training, Annie...you will.
Your Highness, it is our pleasure to continue to serve and protect you. AMIDALA I welcome your help. Senator Palpatine fears the Federation means to destroy me. QUI-GON I promise you, I will not let that happen.
Wesa goen home!
The Queen is on her way to you. I regret she is of no further use to us. When she gets there, destroy her. NUTE Yes, my Lord. DARTH SIDIOUS Viceroy, is the planet secure? NUTE Yes, my Lord, we have taken over the last pockets of primitive life forms. We are in complete control of the planet now. DARTH SIDIOUS Good. I will see to it that in the Senate, things stay as they are. I am sending Darth Maul to join you. He will deal with the Jedi. NUTE Yes, my Lord.
A Sith lord here with us?!!
...and that one? RIC OLIE The forward stabalizer. ANAKIN And those control the pitch? RIC OLIE You catch on pretty quick.
The moment we land the Federation will arrest you, and force you to sign the treaty. QUI-GON I agree...I'm not sure what you hope to accomplish by this. AMIDALA I'm going to take back what's ours. CAPT. PANAKA There are only twelve of us, Your Highness....we have no army. QUI-GON I cannot fight a war for you, Your Highness, only protect you. AMIDALA Jar Jar Binks!
Mesa, Your Highness? AMIDALA Yes. I need your help.
The blockade's gone. OBI-WAN The war's over...No need for it now. RIC OLIE I have one battleship on my scope. OBI-WAN A droid control ship. PANAKA They've probably spotted us. OBI-WAN ; We haven't much time.
Hi! Where have you been? PADME Annie! What are you doing here? ANAKIN I'm with Qui-Gon...but...they're not going to let me be a Jedi. I'm too old. PADME This is going to be dangerous, Annie. ANAKIN Is it? I can help... Where are we going? PADME To war, I'm afraid. The Queen has had to make the most difficuld decision of her life. She doesn't believe in fighting, Annie. We are a peaceful people... ANAKIN I want to help...I'm glad you're back.
Jar Jar is on his way to the Gungan city, Master.
Good.
Do you think the Queen's idea will work? QUI-GON The Gungans will not easily be swayed, and we cannot use our power to help her. OBI-WAN I'm...I'm sorry for my behavior, Master. It is not my place to disagree with you about the boy. I am grateful you think I am ready for the trials.
You have been a good apprentice. You are much wiser than Iam, Obi-Wan. I foresee you will become a great Jedi Knight.
Ello! Where das everybody?
PILOTS, and EIGHT GUARDS stand in the background near the starship.
Dare-sa nobody dare. All gone. Some kinda fight, I tink. Sorry, no Gungas...no Gungas. CAPT. PANAKA Do you think they have been taken to camps? OBI-WAN More likely they were wiped out. JAR JAR No...mesa no tink so. Gungan hiden. When in trouble, go to sacred place. Mackineeks no find them dare. QUI-GON Do you know where they are?
Dissen it.
Heyo-dalee, Captain Tarpals. CAPT. TARPALS Binks!! Noah gain! JAR JAR We comen to see da boss.
Ouch time, Binks... Ouch time for all-n youse.
Jar Jar, yousa payen dis time. Who's da uss-en others??
I am Queen Amidala of the Naboo...I come before you in peace. BOSS NASS Naboo biggen. Yousa bringen da Mackineeks... Dya busten uss-en omm. Yousa all bombad. Yousa all die'n, mesa tink.
We wish to form an alliance...
Your Honor...
Whosa dis? PADME I am Queen Amidala  This is my decoy...my protection...my loyal bodyguard.
...I am sorry for my deception, but under the circumstances it has become necessary to protect myself. Although we do not always agree, Your Honor, our two great societies have always lived in peace...until now. The Trade Federation has destroyed all that we have worked so hard to build. You are in hiding, my people are in camps. If we do not act quickly, all will be lost forever...I ask you to help us...no, I beg you to help us.
We are your humble servants...our fate is in your hands.
Yousa no tinken yousa greater den da Gungans.. Mesa like dis. Maybe wesa bein friends.
...we've sent out patrols. We've already located their starship in the swamp....It won't be long, My Lord. DARTH SIDIOUS This is an unexpected move for her. It's too aggresive.. Lord Maul, be mindful. DARTH MAUL Yes, my Master. DARTH SIDIOUS Be patient... Let them make the first move.
Daza comen! ANAKIN All right. They're here!
Yousa doen grand. Jar Jar bringen da Naboo together. JAR JAR Oh, no, no, no... BOSS NASS So, wesa maken yousa Bombad General. JAR JAR General??! Oh, no..
and PILOT pile out and join the group.
What is the situation? CAPT. PANAKA Almost everyone's in camps. A few hundred police and guards have formed an underground movement. I brought as many of the keaders as I could. The Federation Army's also much larger than we thought, and much stronger. Your Highness, this is a battle I do not think we can win. PADME The battle is a diversion. The Gungans must draw theDroid Army away from the cities. We can enter the city using the secret passages on the waterfall side. Once we get to the main entrance, Captain Pnaka will create a diversion, so that we can enter the palace and capture the Viceroy. Without the Viceroy, they will be lost and confused.
What do you think, Master Jedi? QUI-GON The Viceroy will be well guarded. CAPT. PANAKA The difficulty's getting into the throne room. Once we're inside, we shouldn't have a problem. QUI-GON There is a possibility with this diversion many Gungans will be killed. BOSS NASS Wesa ready to do are-sa part.
We have a plan which should immobilize the Droid Army. We will send what pilots we have to knock out the Droid control ship which is orbiting the planet. If we can get past their rayshields, we can sever communication and their droids will be helpless. QUI-GON A well-conceived plan. However, there's great risk. The weapons on your fighters may not penetrate the shields on the control ship. OBI-WAN And there's an even bigger danger. If the Vicroy escapes, Your Highness, he will return with another droid army. PADME That is why we must not fail to get to the Viceroy. Everything depends on it.
...she is more foolish than I thought. NUTE We are sending all available troops to meet this army of hers assembling near the swamp. It appears to be made up of primitives. We do not expect much resistance. OOM-9 I am increasing security at all Naboo detention camps. DARTH MAUL I feel there is more to this, My Master. The two Jedi may be using the Queen for their own purposes. DARTH SIDIOUS The Jedi cannot become involved. They can only protect the Queen. Even Qui-Gon Jinn will not break that conenant.... This will work to our advantage... NUTE I have your approval to proceed then, My Lord. DARTH SIDIOUS Proceed. Wipe them put...all of them. INT. NABOO SWAMP LAKE - DAY
Energize the shields.
Once we get inside, Annie, you find a safe placeto hide and stay there. ANAKIN Sure. QUI-GON And stay there!
I thought the battle was going to take place far from here...this is too close! RUNE What is going on?
I told you there was more to this...the Jedi are involved.
Get to your ships!
Better find a new hiding place, kid. I'm taking this ship.
My guess is the Viceroy is in the throne room.
I agree.
Hey! Wait for me. QUI-GON No, Annie, you stay there. Stay right where you are. ANAKNI But, I... QUI-GON Stay in that cockpit.
We'' handle this...
At the far end of the hanger, SIX WHEEL DROIDS roll in and transform into their battle position. ARTOO calls ANAKIN's attention to the DROIDS. The JEDI begin to fight the Sith Lord.
Oh, no...
We gotta do something, Artoo.
All right, thanks Artoo! Great idea! I'll take over. Let's see...
Where's the trigger? Oops, wrong one.. Maybe this one....
Yeah, all right. "Droid blaster." Yeah!
The WHEEL DROIDS start firing at ANAKIN. There are EXPLOSIONS all around him.
Oops...shield up! Always on the right...shields always on the right.
I know we're moving. I'll shut the energy drive down.
Oops!! Wrong one.
I'm not doing anything!
I know...I didn't push anything.
Bravo Flight A, take on the fighters. Flight B, make the run on the transmitter. BRAVO TWO Roger, Bravo Leader.
Enemy fighters straight ahead!
The Autopilot is searching for what other ships?
There is no manual override, Artoo. You'll have to rewire it or something.
Look! There they are! That's where the autopilot is taking us.
We don't have time for this, Captain. CAPT. PANAKA Let's try the outside stairway.
Retreat! Retreat!
The GUNGANS renew their attack on the DROID ARMY. JAR JAR's bumbling destroys several more DESTROYER DROIDS.
Whoo, boy! This is tense!
 Oops! Artoo, get us off Autopilot!
I've got control?
Okay, let's go left!
Yes...I've got control. You did it, Artoo!
Go back!?! Qui-Gon told me to stay in this cockpit and that's what I'm gonna do. Now c'mon!
Oops! Whoa!
I'll try spinning, that's a good trick.
I know we're in trouble! Hang on! The way out of this mess is the way we got into it.
Which one? This one?
Bravo flight...go for the central bridge. BRAVO TWO ROger, Bravo Leader.
Their deflector shield is too strong. We'll never get through it.
I know, Artoo! This isn't Podracing!
We're hit!
Great gobs of bantha poo-doo!
I'm trying to stop! I'm trying to stop! Whoa!
All right! All right! Get the system started!
Everything's overheated. All the lights are red.
The JEDI must wait until the next pulse to advance down the corridor. OBI-WAN is impatient and paces, waiting for the wall of rays to open. QUI-GON sits and meditates. The SITH LORD tries to patch up his wounds.
Throw down your weapons. They win this round. CAPT. PANAKA But we can't.... PADME Captain, I said throw down your weapons.
DARTH MAUL cathces QUI-GON off guard. The SITH makes a quick move, bashes his lightsaber handle into QUI-GON's chin, and runs him through. QUI-GON slumps to the floor in a heap.
JAR JAR and GENERAL CEEL are held in a small group with OTHER OFFICERS.
Dissa bad, berry bombad. GENERAL CEEL Mesa hopen dissa working for da Queen.
Your little insurrection is at an end, Your Highness. Time for you to sign the treaty...and end this pointless debate in the Senate.
I will not be signing any treaty, Viceroy, because you've lost!
After her! This one is a decoy!
Your Queen will not get away with this.
Now, Viceroy, this is the end of your occupation here. NUTE Don't be absurd. There are too few of you. It won't be long before hundreds of destroyer droids break in to rescue us.
The SITH LORD smiles as he goes in for the kill. At the last moment, OBI-WAN jumps up out of the pit, calls QUI-GON's lightsaber to hi, throwing DARTH MAUL off. The young JEDI swings with a vengeance, cutting the SITH down. DARTH MAUL falls into the melting pit to his death. OBI-WAN rushes over to QUI-GON, who is dying.
Master! Master! QUI-GON It is too late...It's... OBI-WAN No! QUI-GON Obi-Wan promise...promise me you'll train the boy... OBI-WAN Yes, Master... QUI-GON He is the chosen one...he will...bring balance...train him!
Uh oh. This is not good.
The systems are still overheated, Artoo.
Yes...we have ignition.
This should stop them.
...and take this!
Darn...I missed!
Let's get out of here!
Now, this is Podracing! Whoopee!
Sir, we're losing power... There is some problem with the main reactor... DOFINE Impossible!! I don't...
What's that?? It's blowing up from the inside. RIC OLIE I don't know, we didn't hit it. BRAVO THREE Look! One of ours! Outta the main hold!!
Wierdind...
He flew into the hold, behind the deflector shield and blasted the main reactor... BRAVO THREE Amazing... They don't teach that in the academy.
We're all accounted for. Who flew that ship?
I'm not going to get into trouble, am I?
Now, Viceroy, you are going to have to go back to the Senate and explain all this. CAPT. PANAKA I think you can kiss your Trade franchise goodbye.
Congratulations on youer election, Chancellor. It is so good to see you again. PALPATINE It's good to be home. Your boldness has saved our people, Your Majesty. It is you who should be congratulated. Together we shall bring peace and prosperity to the Republic.
Confer on you, the level of Jedi Knight the Coucil does. But agree on you taking this boy as your Padawan learner, I do not. OBI-WAN Qui-Gon believed in him. I believe in Qui-Gon. YODA The Chosen One the boy may be; nevertheless, grave danger I fear in his training. OBI-WAN Master Yoda, Igave Qui-Gon my word. I will train Anakin. Without the approval of the Council if I must. YODA Qui-Gon's defiance I sense in you. Need that, you do not. Agree, the council does. Your apprentice, young Skywalker will be.
He is one with the Force, Anakin...You must let go. ANAKIN What will happen to me now? OBI-WAN I am your Master now. You will become a Jedi, I promise.
There is no doubt. The mysterious warrior was a Sith. YODA Always two there are....no more...no less. A maste and an apprentice. MACE WINDU But which one was destroyed, the master or the apprentice?
